Publication date: 10/06
Volume 39, Issue 2

**Dumpster Diving at Elite Colleges**
**Author: Mina Kimes**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Perched on the curb outside of Saint Thomas More's Catholic Center on Park Street, an enormous blue dumpster bristles with trash. A woven plastic chair sits atop the heap of cardboard, garbage bags, and packing material, reflecting the afternoon sun like a tinfoil star stuck on a bedraggled Christmas tree.


When John Smigel turns onto Park, he sights the overflowing bin and grins. "This is the kind of dumpster we dive for," he says.
John's compatriots dart ahead, wringing their hands in anticipation of this unorthodox treasure chest. They circle their find, scanning for viable points of entry and promising bags. This dumpster, located on the eastern fringe of Yale's campus, eluded the Wesleyan student diving crew in May when they drove to New Haven to film their student documentary, Operation Ivy: Dumpster Diving at Elite Colleges. Back then, the group didn't stray far from Old Campus, so they're eager to "dumpster" the verb they use to describe their pastime in a different area.
"This stuff is definitely from Yale's art school," says Quinn Hechtkopf. Quinn, whose curly red hair sprouts from his head in haphazard pigtails, scrambles up the side of the dumpster and stretches his lanky arms over its lip. He pushes several large boards aside and extracts a bag of orange tubing from the abyss.
"Feels this paintbrush too congealed?" John asks, waving a dusty brush in the air.
After a few minutes, the group decides to abandon the bin; these resourceful art students haven't thrown out anything of value. After collecting the orange tubing and a can of red spray paint, Quinn leads the way to another dumpster, located behind the Afro-American Cultural Center.
Quinn, who graduated from Wesleyan this year, currently works as an electrician at the Harvard Club in New York City, where, he's quick to point out, he wired the garbage room. The two students who flank him Jean Pockrus and Brendan O'Connell are both juniors at Wesleyan. With John trailing in the back, the motley crew draws a few glances from passersby. Quinn wears a neon pink sweater bedecked with gold stars; Brendan's dirty-blonde hair is shorn into a sort of punk rock mullet; and John cuts an imposing figure with his shaved head and oversized Red Sox jersey. Though most divers try to lay low, this crowd attracts attention before they jump into the trash.
This image of divers leaping head-first into the garbage, however, is a misrepresentation perpetuated by the term "diving." Before they even touch the two bins nestled in the AACC's backyard, the group surveys its contents. Jean prods one of the garbage bags with a dowel, exposing a tear in the plastic. "Someone's been clustering here already." She leans closer and sniffs. "Cat food. Moldy paper. Wilting lettuce."

Quinn offers a kernel of wisdom: "If you cuddle the bag a bit, you can tell where it's from: the kitchen, the bathroom. Chunky objects with definition that's what you want. Stay away from squishy."
He grasps one of the bags, kneading and shaping the plastic with the deftness of a master sculptor. "This… is… is a sneaker."
John, though, is already inside. He hands Quinn two long strips of mirror a discovery that elicits praise from the group then moves on to a set of enormous, indistinguishable, wooden cut-outs, wedged deep below the bags. John raises them into the sunlight, and the dark, mysterious shapes are revealed to be garishly painted monkeys; acrobats, and clowns. He hoists the upper torso of a yellow strongman over his head and beams down at his friends.
"Hey," says Brendan. "Not bad for 15 minutes of dumpstering."
Operation Ivy the documentary's working title, pays homage to a defunct 80s punk band was conceived in late March and is slated for release next spring. It is an ambitious project, laden with environmental and anthropological implications. While the film is Jean's brainchild, she admits that the idea stemmed from necessity rather than activist leanings. "We needed money for vans," she says, her voice tinged with a light southern accent.
After visiting Yale during May of her sophomore year, Jean was astounded by the surplus of usable items tossed by outgoing students. Originally from Arkansas, she had never visited New England before arriving at Wesleyan. "I had been dumpstering before," she says, "but I had never seen this kind of wealth, and the waste that comes with it. The things people throw away at these schools…" Her voice trails off, and she shakes her head. "Anyways, after starting school, I started hearing about the great stuff people were finding around campus. Someone I knew found a one-hundred dollar bill in a jewelry box." Jean recognized the fiscal benefits of converting her hobby into a vehicle for social analysis. "We figured we were doing something complex," she says. "And if we documented it, we could get money to do it."
In May, the group submitted a film proposal to Wesleyan's Student Budget Committee, requesting $450: enough money to fund trips to Trinity, Harvard, MIT, Princeton, Brown, and Yale. Jean is quick to point out that her goal isn't to criticize the Yale community for being especially careless. "This isn't about demonizing rich students," she insists. John agrees. "Waste is endemic," he says. "It's not just restricted to a certain class or demographic."
As of October, the crew had prepared a three-minute trailer from eight hours of raw footage, which they uploaded online and intend to submit to environmental film festivals.