Publication date: November 21, 1997
Volume: 30
Issue number: 3


**MASTHEAD:**
- **Editor in Chief:** (Not listed)


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
Bombing the Elm City - Kavita Marwalla
The Privileged Minority - Lee Tung Wang
Going Postal - Andrew Youn
Breaking New Ground - Michael Gerber
Freedom in Translation - Daphnna Renan
From Our Perspective
Points of Departure
Between the Vines: Learning to Fly - David Slifka
The Critical Angle: Baule: African Art Western Eyes - Vanessa Agard-Jones
Endnote: Accursed Verse - Jessica Winter


**Title: Bombing the Elm City**
**Author: Kavita Marwalla**
**Page number(s): 8**
With graffiti as their weapon, suburban teenagers battle police and each other for ownership of the streets. 


**Title: The Privileged Minority**
**Author: Lee Tung Wang**
**Page number(s): 12**
Outdated perhaps, outnumbered for sure, but hardly out of power, Yale's campus conservatives still command big bucks.


**Title: Going Postal**
**Author: Andrew Youn**
**Page number(s): 16**
Heading home for the holidays? Have you considered traveling by mail? First, take a moment to learn the ins and outs of the U.S. Postal Service.


**Title: Breaking New Ground**
**Author: Michael Gerber**
**Page number(s): 20**
At Common Ground High School, one of Connecticut's 12 new charter schools, students apply classroom skills to a working farm in West Rock.


**Title: Freedom in Translation**
**Author: Daphnna Renan**
**Page number(s): 23**
For the kidnapped Africans aboard the slave vessel Amistad, communicating their plight was the only hope for survival.


**Title: From Our Perspective**
**Author: (Not listed)**
**Page number(s): (Not listed)**


**Title: Points of Departure**


**Title: Between the Vines: Learning to Fly**
**Author: David Slifka**


**Title: The Critical Angle: Baule: African Art Western Eyes**
**Author: Vanessa Agard-Jones**


**Title: Endnote: Accursed Verse**
**Author: Jessica Winter**


**Title: Taking Home the Bronze**
**Author: The Editors**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
We have to give it to Money magazine. 

They know a money-maker when they 
see one. U.S. Nws & World Report (a distant 
third to Time and Newseek) figured out that a 
second-tier magazine can survive entirely 
off the overwhelming 
public appetite for 
ridiculously neat and 
pat answers to ex-
tremely 
complex 
questions. Thus college 
rankings were born. Now 
Money (a distant third to 
Fortune and Forbes) has figured 
oui: that each year there are more 
people contemplating moves to 
other cities than high school seniors 
thinking about college. Thus city rankings are 
born. 

It's not clear how we at Yale are supposed 
to react to Monejs conclusion that New 
Haven is America's "third most dangerous 
small city." More likely than not, however, Yale 
will shrug its collective shoulders, remain in 
New Haven, and continue to be what U.S 
News and World &port considers America's 
third best university. Everybody from Presi-
dent Levin down to the freshest of pre-frosh 
seems to agree that Yale is safe, and if anyone 
has any lingering doubts, a quick walk down 
Elm Street is a lot more convincing than a 
chart in America's third best financial maga-
zine. 

But some people do read Money, primarily 
when they find a copy in a dentist office, and 
once they do they'll probably believe that New 
Haven is akin to Lebanon circa the mid-
1980s. This kind of characterization is not one 
that generally holds sway with the people who 
actually live in Yale's pared of the the Elm 
City. Roger Vann, president of the local 
NAACP, once said in these pages, "The whole 
thing about New Haven being a war zone is 
overblown. It's a city, folks. Get over it." The 
local reality is once again much less exciting 
than the national myth. 

Anyone who has ever shopped the first lec-
ture of Statistics 123a can tell you why num-
bers don't always tell the truth. In the case of 
Monejs list, the numbers make a lot less sense 
when you read the fine print. To weigh differ-
ent kinds of crime in its tabulations, Money 
relies on the results of a national poll that asks 
people which crimes they fear the most. Since 
more people are robbed than mur-
dered, it is no surprise that 
people will tell you they 
fear 
their house 
being 
robbed more than they 
being murdered. 

And so, in Monejs 
rankings, burglaries 
make a city more 
dangerous. 

Now, 
of coUrse, if the poll 
asked which crime peo-
ple would rather not have happen 
to them, the results would certainly be a whole 
lot different. 

Last year, Money did not break cities down 
by size, and New Haven was rated the 21st 
most dangerous city in America mosdy 
because we were 9th in car theft and 14th in 
burglary. As crimes become more violent, 
though, New Haven's ranking slips: 29th in 
assaults, 38th in rapes, 54th in murders. 

We at The New journal accept the fact that 
this Money's information is useful to some-
soccer moms looking out for minivan-theft 
rings, corporate executives fearful for their 
$10,000 hi-fi stereo-but since when has New 
Haven considered itself the next Greenwich or 
Darien? New Haven is a city with seven uni-
versities and packed with college students, not 
a suburban sprawl. New Haven has it's prob-
lems, certainly, but we don't have mass mur-
derers or serial rapists, and-at least on this 
side of Fortress Yale-we don't even stay up 
nights fearing break-ins. Money's list only feeds 
our parent's mistaken fears that they've sent 
their children into the belly of an urban beast 
while chipping away at the morale of a city 
that is making considerable progres in cutting 
crime through a~irable programs like com-
munity policing as well as developing a reputa-
tion as Connecticut's cultural center. 

-The Editors 


**Title: The Chai Life**
**Author: Eli Kintisch**
**Page number(s): 5**

I'm taking a study break in the Pierson 
Courtyard when an energetic Hassidic guy 
appears, smiling and shaking my hand vigor~ 
ously. His black coat and wide~brimmed hat 
dwarf his young face, making him look only 
several years past bar mitzvah age. I'm intro~ 
duced to Shmully Hecht, a 22-year~old Has~ 
sidic rabbi who holds weekly Chai society 
dinners which have developed a small but 
devoted student following over the past year 
and a half. We talk, and I'm quickly com~ 
fortable with him; he's an engaging fellow, 
not the righteous zealot I expect. "Anyway, 
what are you guys doing studying, it's Thurs~ 
day night! Aren't there any parties on cam~ 
pus?" he asks, laughing. 

Later we meet outside Taft Caffe. He 
seems quite ordinary, sipping coffee in 
his almost fashionable green jacket with 
white fringes peeking out. His wispy red 
beard dances in the wind as we chat, 
and he asks me about the Pierson Wer~ 
no and my major. Soon we're talking 
about the Chai society. "Our society is 
inspired by Lubavitch Jewish ideas," he 
explains. "The idea is to cultivate virtue 
and embrace a tradition. We aim to bring 
Judaism to the forefront of discussion." 
Shmully's eyes blaze behind his oval~shaped 
glasses as he talks. He's passionate yet easy~ 
going and full of wit, whether he's discussing 
Jewish law or public perceptions of Hassidic 
Jews. This mix of humor and religion is 
apparent in the weekly Chai society dinners, 
too: the gin and tonics flow freely, and the 
discussion of spiritual matters is as important 
as having a good time. 

Lubavitch Hassidism is an ultra-conserv~ 
ative sect within Orthodox Judaism whose 
goal is to help all Jews learn and practice the 
teachings of the Torah. People are often leery 
of Lubavitch Jews; their practice of active 
outreach, as demonstrated by the "mitzvah 
tank" on Elm Street, is often seen as prosely~ 
tizing. But Shmully has the personality, the 
sensibility, and the wit to be an effective reli~ 
gious leader on campus in spite of his group's 
reputation. At 22 he's more like an intelli~
December 3, 1997 
gent, well~spoken peer than an intimidating 
religious figure. 

While studying to become a rabbi 
berween the ages of 18 and 21, he became an 
independent trader on the Australian and 
American markets, managing huge portfo~ 
lios for wealthy clients. But when he was 
ordained as a rabbi last year, Shmully decid~ 
ed to leave the financial world. "I came to see 
a vanity and emptiness in the markets. It was 
an obsession for money." He's aware that his 
past experiences on the market are unusual 
but he downplays this part of his life. "But 
for a while I had the Beamer with the cell 
phone," he kids. In fact, he tells me later, he 
drives a Jeep Cherokee. 

Shmully grew up in a Lubavitch commu~ 
nity in Queens, New York. After receiving 
his rabbinical ordination in 1996, he carne 
to Yale, one of the few universities lacking a 
permanent Lubavitch presence. Along with 
Ben Karp (GRD '99) .and several other grad~ 
uate students, Shmully created the Chai soci~ 
ety in September 1996. "And the rest is his-
tory. We're rocking now!" he exclaims. Last 
year the group met in a Taft apartment for 
the dinners. Currently the society is on hia~ 
tus until the renovations on its new building 
on Crown Street are complete. 

In its attempt to get college kids to 
explore spiritual issues, .the Chai society's 
strategy is to be as accessible as possible. The 
society sponsors intimate weekly Sabbath 
dinners open to all, no strings attached. 
Attendees describe the Friday evening meals 
as intellectual and lively, attracting open~ 
minded thinkers of diverse religious back~ 
grounds. And Shmully is versatile enough to 
get everyone into the conversation. 

"He creates an atmosphere of cama~ 
raderie and hospitality at the dinners," says 
Christopher Thacker (DC '98), a non~Jew~ 
ish student, "He's a great entertainer and 
constan~ teacher." 

Shmully shatters preconceptions-he is 
no stodgy fundamentalist. And he~s aware 
of the stereotype people might have. As 
we're walking along he stops and holds 
my shoulders "Eli, I'm not the 
Unabomber." 

He 
grins 
like 
a 
prankster. 

-Eli Kintisch


**Title: From Hair to Eternity**
**Author: Genevieve Taft**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

I was stroking Lord Tennyson's 
hair the other day. He-well, at least 
some of what's left of him-is kept in 
Beinecke in an unassuming gray box. And 
all I needed to do to borrow Tennyson from 
the library was some paper work and a 
promise to only use a pencil. In fact, I could 
have been petting the likes of Napoleon 
Bonaparte, Charles Dickens, Robert Louis 
Stevenson, Benjamin Silliman, or Lord 
Byron. Beinecke has quite a cast of charac~ 
ters in its catalog under the keyword hair, 24 
locks in all. 

The Tennyson box I received was divid-
ed into ten 61es: doodles and halves of notes 
in one 61e, a segment of Lady Tennyson's 
wedding dress, and an envelope written on 
by a relative. When I turned the envelope 
over, Tennyson's hair was creepin~ out of it. 
He was peeking out, as if caught in a last 
attempt to escape 20th century curiosity. 
Unexpectedly, my stomach was moved more 
by the sight of his hair than my heart was 
ever moved by his words. I never thought 
that I would have been so repulsed by having 
5 


Lord Tennyson in my hands, nor do I think 
he ever expected to be there. 

"It makes you feel like you are in the 
same world as, say, Robert Louis Stevenson. 
It is a way to make people intrigued and 
involved in the past," Joseph Reed says of the 
famous locks of hair. Reed, an English pro-
fessor at Wesleyan, put together an exhibit of 
the random things in the Beinecke collection 
three years ago. But all I could imagine was 
Tennyson in my lap. He was more frail than 
I had thought. In the Beinecke reading 
room, it was either Tennyson's hair or I who 
seemed out of place. The hair conjured up 
the past, but the thoughts it created for me 
were entwined with images of death. A body 
dead for 130 years. It used to be part of a liv-
ing organism, but once cut, it lays limp and 
dead. Like a severed limb-what do you do 
with it? Keep it? 

Auntie Tennyson kept the Lord's hair in · 
order to remember. The next file had locks 
of both the Lord and the Lady's hair from 
their wedding day. The problem is that there 
was a third clump of gray hair. Whose hair 
was that? And how did it get into the same 
time capsule as the lovers' locks? 

My stomach turned again. 

"It all started with the Victorians. They 
kept a piece of Martin Luther's garment and 
then everyone's hair," Reed explains. It was a 
keepsake. People wore hair as mourning jew-
elry: a ring with the hair of a deceased loved 
one. Some wore it wrapped around their 
wrists-as John Donne described, "A bracelet 
of bright hair bound around the bone." They 
were buried with the hair of the loved one, 
and when their own flesh melted, it would 
remain around the bone. The hair survived as 
a memory and then outlived the memory. 

In the 1850s, a Philadelphia scientist 
named Peter A. Browne collected hair, and 
called it a pile, because he felt he could clas-
sifY people according to 
hair. Browne was one of 
the first to use hair in a 
scientific study and be-
lieved that he had found a 
difference between hair 
grown from an insane 
mind and a sane one. 

Indeed, 
afrer 
touching 
Lord Tennyson's hair, I would certainly clas-
sify Tennyson as a good fellow, trustworthy, 
though somewhat timid. 

6 
Recent science has used the DNA found 
in hair to relate the Romanovs to Britain's 
Prince Phillip. Perhaps Yale has kept the 
clumps of distinguished hair in hopes that 
they would endow the university with all 
those genes. Napoleon's hair is, of course, a 
vestige of the Napoleonic complex, which 
Yale was quick to capitalize on. 

A Beinecke curator maintains, "We don't 
go looking for hair-
it may be left to us, but 
we don't have an interest in buying a lock of 
hair." But it seems that some people do go ~~ 
looking. Beinecke houses a lock of Major 
Andre's hair taken from his exhumed body 
and donated to the library. 

Though they didn't loot graves for their 
hair, the curators of Beinecke might find that 
others covet their resource. They could make 
some money selling the strands as "trinkets 
of famous literary figures" at the grand open-
ing of the Yale Bookstore. Or create a new 
promotion: buy a book, get the author's hair. 
It might sell. Who knows what kind of sci-
entific or capitalistic scheme collected locks 
of hair will fall victim to in the future? 

I wanted to cut my hair, but now I think 
I might keep it all to myself, all on my head. 
But perhaps I am being paranoid-after all, 
who would ever want my hair? 

-Genevieve Taft


**Title: Shared Spotlight**
**Author: jessica Champagne**
**Page number(s): 6**

It's the last rehearsal before the Home-
less Theater Troupe's opening night of 
Angelic Greeting. Director Jane Chen OE 
'98) describes the final production touch. 
She wants the audience to interact with the 
actors as they enter Nick Chapel. Her plan 
is for members of the audience to enter 
through the backstage door and pass the 
troupe members hanging out onstage. 

Troupe member Tony Alves gives Jane a 
skeptical 
look. 
"Why 
don't we just sit in the 
audience until we start 
the show?" Tony asks. 

Jane doesn't like the idea, 
and producer Laurie Ken-
nington (BR '99) men-
tions the lack of extra 
chairs. "Then we'll get up 
when people come," Tony persists, pretend-
ing to politely relinquish his seat and gar-
nering comments of agreement from the 
other actors. Jane still looks doubtful, but 
consents to Tony's plan. When the plan is 
put into action on opening night, the actors 
comfortably mingle with audience mem-
bers, many of whom were unaware of the 
actors' identity until they left their seats to 
go backstage. Stephanie Escajeda (TC '98), 
a student actor in Angelic Greeting, says 
while audience response was difficult to 
gauge, the actors' presence tied in well the-
matically with the troupe's attempts to 
break down the walls between the troupe 
members and other community members. 

"I've been really impressed that students 
and troupe members interact on an equal 
basis," Laurie says. The troupe's "work 
nights," which Laurie organizes, typifY this 
unusual relationship. Every Thursday, the 
troupe members, all of whom are homeless 
or formerly homeless, work together with 
Yale students on administrative tasks like 
publicity and fundraising. When the troupe 
has raised enough money, it will hire a 
troupe member as a replacement for soon-
. to-graduate Jane. 

Laurie 
expresses 
surprise 
at 
how 
impressed people, particularly grant admin-
istrators, are with the easy interaction 
between students and troupe members on 
work nights. She recalls only one contrast-
ing scene when she and Jane had to make an 
executive 
decision 
about light design 
because no one else fully understood the 
factors involved. "I guess that's the excep-
tion that proves the rule," she says. The 
troupe's mode of cooperation, which con-
trasts so sharply with the benefactor-benefi-
ciary paradigm of most community service, 
feels natural to its participants. During the 
post-performance talkback, troupe member 
Donna Fields says, "We're homeless, but 
we're not helpless"-a theme that runs 
through all the troupe's workings and one 
that working with the troupe helped her to 
realize. 

A few weeks later at a work night, 
Andree Thompson, busy writing a press 
release, looks up to say "This is beautiful." 
Krissy Clark (ES '98) agrees. "There's so 
much energy in here!" "It's not about hand-
outs or 'the capable:' and 'the needy,"' Krissy 
writes. "Working side by side toward a com-
mon goal, all the members of the troupe-
students and actors-benefit." 

-jessica Champagne



**Title: Friendly Tips from Sallie Mae**
**Author: Ro Givony**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Tucked away neatly on the third floor of 
246 Church Street is a harmless-looking 
room complete with the standard adorn-
ments of any Yale office where Important 
Business is conducted. Month-old issues of 
Ntwswuk and Good Housekuping, sterile 
pink wallpaper interrupted by an occasional 
Monet print, and the familiar background 
noise of office workers amiably chatting greet 
the casual visitor. 


However, room 305, the Student Loans 
Office, is the site of unique 
Important Business. I've been 
summoned to this room by a 
number of e-mails politely 
informing me (read: threat-
ening) that I've yet to view a 
mandatory 30-minute Staf-
ford loan video describing 
my rights and responsibil-
ities as a recipient of fed-
eral largess. Litde do I 
know that I've come to 
room 305 for an after-
noon of unexpected 
hilarity. 


After a 
brief 
meeting with the 
secretary at the 
front desk informing me 
that the video will begin shortly, I take a 
chair near several other tired-looking stu-
dents. "You here for the video?" one asks. He 
responds co my nod with a look of knowing 
sympathy and mutual annoyance. 


Several minutes pass before the eight of 
us are finally led to the mysterious room. 
After being given a "Statement of Under-
Standing" with an ominous checklist of regu-
lations we're supposed to agree to, an almost 
frighteningly concerned 
loan counselor 
enters. She reminds us several times that 
we're not only allowed but expected to ask 
any questions we might have about the loan 
process. Following a span of silence and visi-
ble impatience from the small crowd, the 
door is closed and the film starts. 


The Sallie Mae corporate seal proudly 
graces the screen for an instant before fading 
into footage of a bustling eollege campus. No 
expense has been spared in the video's 
attempt to recreate a college environment: 
pennants, canned and vibrant frisbee players, 
even student slang. The film begins to take 
December 3, 1997 -
form with a diverse group of young people, 
all attired in regular college garb, appearing 
one after another on a carefully constructed 
set. Each, of course, has their own scripted 
wisdom co impart co the captivated and 
financially aided members of the audience. 


But instead of eliciting polite attention or 
bored ·disinterest, the Stafford loan video 
becomes laughable as its cast members' 
advice strays farther and farther from reality 
and becomes a ridiculous attempt to connect 
with college students. 


"Pay attention! Definitely pay attention 
to your loan officer. I never really did, and 
now I regret it," I'm warned by Robert, the 
first of many annoyingly helpful students 
interviewed. Robert's outstretched, pointed 
finger and didactic words earn giggles instead 
of alarm from a girl sitting behind me. 


"You have to know what you're getting 
into. It's very important that you read the 
paperwork. Read, read, read. Read how 
much you have to pay back. It's a contract, 
you know. Probably your first," is the advice 
of a serious woman named Susan. I'm unable 
to keep from smirking at Susan and Robert's 
assumption of our third-grade comprehen-
sion level. Other grins of amusement, if not 
outright laughs of derision, are slowly emerg-
ing from the small audience. 


"Check off that you understand every-
thing, but don't be afraid to ask questions if 
you have 
them," 
are Robert's further 
reminders. "You should only get a loan if you 
need it. I remember signing up for an extra 
thousand here and there, and now I really 
regret it. I mean, don't mess around." Robert 
shakes his head from side to side in remorse, 
as if to emphasize the point. 


Furthering the guide. to avoiding com-
mon 
student financial 
messups, 
John 
describes how he foolishly used his student 
loans "co buy pepperoni pizza every night for 
an entire year." He laughs at his error and 
smacks his own forehead. "What a mistake." 


"Buy 'em with mushrooms next time," an 
unimpressed audience member shoots back. 


Perhaps sensing the futility of a staid loan 
agency relating to college students, the camera 
cuts to Arthur, a balding, suspendered 
accountant working late in a dimly lit (Sallie 
Mae, presumably) office. Utilizing a threaten-
ing rather chan helpful ap-proach, 
Arthur has even more 
to 
expl~n and 
warn us o£ Slowly, 
huge 
words 
flash 
across 
the 
screen, 
as 
we're 
taken through the 
Student Loan Basics: 
FORBEARANCE. 
LOAN 
CONSOLIDATION. 
DEFERMENT. 


"So pay them back," 
Arthur intones. "It's not a 
good idea to fall back on 
your payments. You might 
not be able to buy a car or a 
house." Robert and Susan 
nod in agreement. "You could 
even 
permanently 
damage 
your credit record. You're not just hurting 
yourself, you're hurting others. It could 
come back to haunt you." 


"Sallie Mae and the Mafia never forget," 
comes from the back of the room. 


The screen fades to black as the loan 
officer reenters the room. "Was the video 
informative?" she asks hopefully. "Oh, 
yeah," one of us offers. "A real riot." 


Pleased, she hands back copies of our state-
ments of understanding and asks Xsurprise, 
surprise) if we have any questions before 
signing. 


Eight hands collect pens and bookbags 
and race for the door without a peep. 
-Ro Givony


**Title: Untitled**
**Author:  Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

W ith graffiti as their weapon, suburban teenagers 
battle police for ownership of the streets. 
''GOD OF A BITCH SPELLED BACKWARDS IS A RUN DOG." 
· For years this phrase from New Havens Gang of Four 
' 
adorned the brick wall facing the entrance to Ezra 
Stiles College. All those who passed it knew the 
bunch; their names were as much fixtures of the landscape as their per-
plexing phrase, And while the Barnes and Noble powerwashers have 
erased the paint, the contusing phrase still lingers in people's minds-a 
symbol qf the Elm Oty's mysterious graffiti culture. 


To understand the lure of graffiti in New Haven, one must first 
become familiar with the key concepts. These are the players: the graffi-
ti artists and the police. lieutenant Joe Polio to be specific, head of the 
New Haven Police Department Graffiti Team. We have the stage: the 
''legal wall" near Acme Furniture on Crown Street. And finally, the lan-
guage of the scene: bombing, tagging, and posting. Now we're ready to 
begin. 


I
t is unusually busy at 3 p.m. at Cafenine on State Street, but when 
you mention graffiti, people stop and acknowledge you with a 
knowing nod of the head. Mike Reichbart, the owner of the bar, is 
~ the man I'm looking to speak with, but it seems like everyone has a 
:g story ro tell. Ace, the cook, is first; he asks me if I've seen the legal wall 
~ out back. Leg<l1 wall? ''Yeah, mats where all the great stuff is," he says. 
~ "The Acme Furniture guy lets kids spraypaint the side of his building. 
~ That's why it's called legal, 'cause no one complains." 


"Yeah," interrupts Sara, the waitress. "Its amazing. Just recently 
~ these kids carne out here and were putting up a new mural for a mend 
&. who died. There were like 15 of them working on it. Moms and aunts 
8 
were out there. They had a bUnch of puppies so I went after work and 
people were just hangin' out and painting. It was real nice, playing with 
the puppies and watching these guys put that mural up. They must 
have been there all day." 


I find Mike and he takes me outside to reveal the setting of every-
one's stories--an empty parking lot closed off by a black chainfink 
fence. Yellow signs warn "No Trespassing: Violators Will Be Prosecut~ 
ed," but the fence presenrs lirde more than an annoyance. With a weak 
push, it rolls back easily. 


This is a parking lot without cars. Instead, the asphalt sttVes as a 
morgue for spraycan tops. Discarded rollers. paint pans, old .rags, and 
an occasional beer bottle litter the ground. Putpte, gold, black, blue, 
green: every color of spraypaint lays it:S claim to this space. 


On the right side of the lot, the walls are covered with the m.onikl:rs 
of graffiti artists: ERA, Duo J, CDE, OMS, BPt ct "See that over 
there?" Mike says pointing to the last tag. "That means Bridgeport. 
Connecticut. These guys come from all over the place to spray h~. I 
see them late at night spraying. MOSt of them are good kids-you 
wouldn't mind having them as sons.'' 


As Mike continues to point out the tagJ he is familiar wim, he sys-
tematically points out what is not graffiti. "see that over there?" he says, 
indicating a scribble of white on the hack wall. "Now see, that's just 
vandalism, that's not graffiti.'' The distinction he makes is curious, bur 
has its own logic. Graffiti culture has its own handbook which separates 
it from mere vandalism. To those combatting graffiti, it ~ all the same, 
but for insiders like Mike the difference is the visual dfect on the view-
eL What he points to as vandalism looks like spatters of paint and illeg-
Tm NEW' JouRNAL 


--- Page 9 ---

ible writing, when compared to graffiti's use of bold colors and studied 
style of script. 


"Well, what's that?" I ask, pointing to graffiti that I soon learn is a 
proclamation of war. The words, "Independent Optics Only," have 
been scrawled over some older graffiti. "That's bad," Mike says. In the 
language of the paint, a challenge to fight has been declared. "See, any-
time someone purs their tag over another tag, that means they're look-
ing to start something." 


But while war is announced on one side of the parking lot, the 
opposite side mourns the dead. "Seme RIP," one portion of the wall 
wishes. Next to it is another memorial: "In Memory of Brian Rorick." 
Inside the purple and green bubble letters "PIB," the words "Rest Easy" 
are printed. Mike doesn't know what PIB stands for, and the three-
pronged crown atop the I is a mystery. But this memorial is a tempo-
rary one. "These walls have been repainted at least 20 times," Mike 
says. "Each time a new kid comes, he breaks out a roller and goes over 
the old stuff and bam! purs his stuff up right after." This mural holds 
Brian's place here for a short while, at least until the next roll down. 


"It's a shame really," Mike says, "They ought to do this stuff on can-
vas, but I guess that's the whole point. You do it, some people photo-
graph it, everyone you want to see it does, and then boom! you paint 
over it and start again." 


At the top of the wall-one can still make out "Pedro" underneath a 
thin <:oat of whitewash. In place of the E is a menacing face whose eyes 
and beard appear dearly. "See up there? They covered that up already. 
It's like some sort of continuous artform, always changing. It's amazing 
how you can make a spraycan talk like that." 


December 3, 1997 
For the first time someone has used the word art to describe the 
wall, but little mention is made of the land feud being waged over the 
canvas. According to Lieutenant Polio, the legal wall presenrs irs own 
problems. While AI Greenberg of the Acme Furniture Company has no 
qualms with the paint-happy youth, the parking lot owners do not 
share his enthusiasm for this form of expression. The Catch-22 is this: 
how does one paint on a legal wall when one has to invade private 
property to get to it? "It's difficult ro call it criminal trespassing," Polio 
says, "The owners of the two properties need to work it out between 
themselves." In the meantime, Mike laughs. "They think this fence is 
gonna stop someone. Did it stop us? We just walked right in." 


"The kids aren't looking for trouble for the most part," Mike con-
cludes as we leave the parking lot. One last look at the wall and we slip 
back through the chain link fence. 


But the graffiti isn't just on the legal wall. After an introduction to 
the language of graffiti the eye learns to read the urban landscape. All 
along the buildings from Cafenine to the Tune Inn there are scrawlings, 
tags. Now the initials are familiar: CDE, DMS, ERA. Then there is the 
most prominent of all, on the second floor of the Chapel Square Mall 
in white bubble letters surrounded by red and blue lines: VERSE. 


( ( v
erse is worth a dinner," Polio says from behind Ius desk at 
City Hall. "The guy who turned in DMS got a lunch, but 
Verse, he's worth a dinner. I was promised him by someone." 


"They're going to deliver Verse?" an officer in the room asks. 


"Yeah, that's what they said," Polio beams. 


A conversation with the lieutenant quickly reveals the srrange 
9 



**Title: The Nature of Graffiti**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
nature of the ·police department's graffiti 
team. Polio doesn't know the names of the 
kids he is looking for; all he has to go on are 
the tags. His methods are not altogether 
orthodox. He promises meals, combs the 
papers for the identity of the taggers, and even 
does a little bombing of his own. 

"You know how we found out who OMS 
was?" Polio asks, handing me a clipping from 
the New Haven Register. I stare at the picture 
of a band from Wallingford with a long-
haired lead singer, and look back at Polio con-
fused. "That band is OMS. I was just looking 
through the paper, and there they were." 

Indeed, a look at the photo's caption gives the 
kids away: "OMS, a Wallingford-based rock 
band, returned from a European tour to their 
hometown. When asked what their name 
stands for their answer varies between Drastic 
Mood Swing and Don't Mean @#?!." 

"So this is OMS?" I ask,. "But they're just a 
band." Visions of inner-city gangsters waging 
turf wars are dispelled by the picture of angst-
:ij ridden suburban teenagers. "Most of these 
~ kids aren't from New Haven," Polio says. 
£ "They come from families where the average 
"lij household income is $100,000 a year." Polio 
~ swivels around in his chair and turns on the 
:l; computer behind him. This is his database. 
~ With a few clicks of the keyboard a listing 
~ comes up of the towns most of the apprehend-
ed graffiti taggers come from: Milford, Bran-
ford, Guilford. New Haven's graffiti is largely 
the hobby of suburban boys. Few of the artists 
are female, few are minorities, and few are 
poor. They hang outside the Daily Ca.ffe and 
the Tune Inn and pale when Polio threatens to 
call their parents. "These are vandals, but most 
of them have never committed any felonies. 
You don't get many gang tags in the downtown 
area, that stuff is a little farther away." 

"The stuff on the streets isn't terribly cre-
ative," Polio says. A few more clicks on his key-
~ 
board and another list appears on the screen. 
This rime it's alphabetical and mostly initials. 
"Tills is a list of all the tags we find in the 
municipal area. Look at this one. Who do you 
think this guy is?" he asks, pointing to HEC 
DOE. I am puzzled. 

"C'mon, say it quickly," Polio urges. 

"Hecdoe ... Hectoe ... Hector?" I say. 

"That's right, Hector. HEC DOE is Hec-
tor. AU you have to do is be able to read it. 
Like I said, some of this stuff isn't too cre-
ative."·A tagger who calls himselfRahmique's 
Boy puts his address and his girlfriend's name 
on his graffiti. "It's not hard to track them 
down when they do stuff like that," Polio says. 

Then there are the crew tags like HBO. 
Not the cable channel, but rather Hill Boys 
Only. What does ECB mean? Elm City Boys. 
"The only qualification you need to be an 
Elm City Boy is to be from New Haven. 
They're a gang that was formed in j~ but 
they're pretty harmless. Actually, one of the 
guys is meeting me here later." 

Polio scrolls down the list on the comput-
er screen. TO BY. The lieutenant gives me 
some background. "He's an enforcer for a 
gang, but he's dumber than a sto,ne-some-
one else must be writing his name for him 
because he's in jail more than he's out." 

According to Polio, most of the taggers are 
just young people looking to identify them-
selves. "We get worried when we see tags that 
have been written over. If you write on peo-
ple's tags, you get shot at, so we try to cover 
that up as soon as it comes out." 

But the caggers aren't the only ones bomb-
ing. "Sure, we bomb the gangs. There was a 
building downtown that they were trespassing 
in. We went in and saw their tags and 
bombed them. We wrote right over it: 
NHPD. Yeah, we left a message: for them-
that they better not come back 'cause we'll be 
back everyday." 

"In one neighborhood the folks were 
complaining about this house," Polio says. 
"Shoes were hanging over the telephone wire 
outside which means drugs were being sold 
there. We went in and bombed the place With 
'Gangs Don't Fit In This Neighborhood-
NHPD.' Son of a gun, their graffiti was down 
and the place cleaned up." But, offbeat stories 
like these are rare in the war against raggers. 
Most of the kids get caught or are turned in. 
Polio explains his policing methods. "They 
keep notebooks, so when we catch them, what 
do we do? We take their notebooks." From 
underneath his desk, Polio pulls out a large 
brown box. In it, there are thick envelopes 
filled with photocopied versions of the graffiti 
artists' portfolios. "We keep this scuff on file so 
when we see a new tag, we can match the let-
tering and identify who did it," Polio says. "We 
tell the kids you need to fix your stuff. They 
have to wash it off or paint it with the same 
color of paint within ten days and then they 
won't be arrested. We make a deal." Polio 
shows me an example of one of the contracts 
he offers to offenders who are caught. 

But while the police confiscate paint and 
notebooks and require raggers to sign these 
pacts, the artists are -rarely deterred. Take for 
example, New Haven's YACone. Even though 
he was recently caught by Polio, his attitude 
remains unchanged. He wouldn't be inter-


--- Page 11 ---

viewed in person, but he gave me a written 
statement. "I am a writer, and I was appre-
hended by the New Haven Police. I love graf-
fiti. I love it for its challenge, its power. It is 
beautiful; it is more dynamic, provocative, 
and interesting than any other two-dimen-
sional art form in my opinion. Cavemen did 
it, so did Greeks, Romans, and Egyptians. As 
writers, we are not alone in our desire for 
fame. The very goal of humankind, it often 
seems, is to be remembered, to live forever in 
a sense. There's graffiti on the moon." 

G
raffiti on the moon? In this culture of 
tagging and bombing and posting 
and NHPD and HBO and ERA, the 
ultimate question becomes what is graffiti? 
I'm told the crown I saw on Brian Rorick's 
memorial mural is merely an imitation of the 
symbol used by the gang Latin Kings. Accord-
ing to Polio the kids who use it in New Haven 
are simply artistic kids trying to lend their 
work an air of authenticity. "You see the num-
bers 231 around town. That's the police code 
for homicide in New York. You see it up by 
the legal wall, but it's harmless." 

"Most of these kids are j~t seeking atten-
tion," Polio concludes. "See Verse, he's blatant 
and malicious. He got up there on the second 
story of the Chapel Square Mall and hung 
upside down to do that tag just so people 
waiting on line at the Tune Inn could look up 
and say 'Wow, cool, look at that.' Right now 
he's the one we're looking for." 

Depending on who you are, you call graf-
fiti art or vandalism. There are the gang mem-
bers, there are the wannabe gang members, 
and there are those who are just in it for the 
thrill like Verse. There are the supporters of 
graffiti artists like Mike Reichbart and AI 
Greenberg, and there are the people who have 
to clean up after them like Joe Polio. 

In the end there is only one certainty. 
With all of the new construction around 
town, the fresh concrete walls are a graffiti 
artist's dream come true. Whether the prod-
UCts of this dream are an eyesore or an asset is 
a matter of opinion. But for now, it is Verse 
who has the last word. I saw it in big black let-
ters, painted on the top of the new Yale Book-
store: "1 AM EVERYWHERE.". 

li1J 
!Gzvita Mariwalia, a smior in Ezra Stiks Col-
lege, is a managing editor ofTNJ. 
December 3, 1997 


**Title: The Privileged Minority**
**Author: Lee Tung Wang**
**Page number(s): 12**

Outdated perhaps, outnumbered for sure, but hardly out of power, 
Yale's campus conservatives still command big bucks. 
T
HE GAME IS POR TENNIS. A PAST-PACED, INTENSE CONTESf OF 
wit. The rules are simple. They play on teams, two on two, 
three on three-almost like regular tennis, except they play 
with words instead of balls. One team serves up a word, and 
the other bounces one back that is somehow connected to the first. The 
goal, like regular tennis, is to make the opponents run, sweat, fall on 
their faces. 

Tonight's match starts slowly, but as sobriety among the Party of the 
Right wears off, the pace picks up, even attracting a few observers. A new 
match is beginning. A pensive pause sets in before the firSt serve. 
Social, he begins, eyeing the opposition. 
Breakdown, the opposition returns. 
He rallies: Rap. And the words shoot back and forth: 
Porn. 
. Playboy. 
Western. 
Decline. 

The table shakes with pounding of approval from the sidelines. Tech-
nically, the game isn't over-the points are not yet tallied-but the audi-
ence has passed its judgment. They have chosen their winner. 

Stripped of its rules and form, POR Tennis is essentially a test of 
legitimacy. Everyone has to earn his place on the court of conservative 
intellectualism. In this sport, esoteric historical references and subversive-
ness will earn you respect, and liberalism will get you lynched. 

But scoring points on the intellectual plane isn't enough to merit 
membership in the POR. By entering the POR, students enter not only 
an intellectual world, but also an entire culture of conservatism. Atten-
dance is virtually mandatory for weeknight dinners at Saybrook, late-
night debates, Friday toastings at Mory's, and weekend social events like 
cards and games night. Gaining membership is a long and involved 
process, often taking months for someone to be finally voted in. In a 
iii symbolic gesture, nonmembers of the POR cannot be recognized by 
~ their full names in the sign-in books at party events. If a nonmember 
~ uses their full name, it will be crossed out later. Once petitioners become 
t members, they can use their own middle name or choose another. As 
! testament to the fierce exclusivity of the POR, one of the most effective 
.c 
t::: ways to insult a POR member is to call him a "social normalise," a per-
"' 
~ son whose friends are mostly non-POR members. Implicit in member-
f: ship in the mainstream is a betrayal of conservative loyalties and selling 
~ out to campus liberalism. 

}; 
Although the Conservative Party splintered off from the POR and 
~ insists there are differences between the two groups, its members are sim-
~ ilarly consumed by party events. The Conservative Party schedule of 
12 
events is practically identical. Avik Roy (MED '99), founder of the Con-
servative Party and publisher of Light and Truth, describes the conserva-
tive parties as "intellectual fraternities." Lila III Arzua (SY '98), Conserva-
tive Party member and editor-in-chief of Light and Truth, highlights the 
necessity of the conservative parties. "There are no structural incentives 
for conservatives at Yale," she explains. The lack of a strong traditional 
western education and the omnipresence of liberalism can mislead fresh-
men who don't know better. Arzua says that the Conservative Party and 
the POR both strive to build Great Men and Great Leaders. She argues 
that conservative organizations at Yale-parties and publications alike-
fill in missing gaps in our institution;U structure. 

A popular game among all campus conservatives is Diplomacy, a mil-
itary strategy game based on World War I. The game mirrors the disputes 
between. the conservative parties. Every player fights for his own country 
in a bartle of political adroimess. Players negotiate treaties, cut deals, and 
backstab allies. As games draw into the wee hours of the morning, Diplo-
macy addicts lament only that card and games night does not start earlier 
in the evening. As the rising sun finds POR members conniving and 
strategizing, the members seem like troops in training. Maybe these are 
the Great Leaders of whom Anua spoke: they are preparing for war. 

he debate over legitimacy becomes critical when you are a minor-
ity, and at Yale, conservatives think of themselves as just that. 
Alone, under siege, marginalized, defensive, victimized, ostra-
cized, and stereotyped. Conservatives crusade against a liberal orthodoxy 
and fight for the little man, the little man in bow tie and cuff links. The 
erosion of traditional conservative values is nothing new; since William F. 
Buckley (DC '50) searched for God at Yale in the 1950s, conservatives 
have been guarding Yale against the siege of radicalism. As the fight wears 
on, the minority mentality threatens to become a militant minority neu-
rosis. The conflict inevitably turns in on itsel£ Different right-wing 
groups on campus compete for the title of True Conservatives because in 
the shrinking reserve for conservatism, there is room for only one. 

Roy compares the conservative network to a community of recent 
immigrants. Like Korean immigrants in New York City who are viewed 
with suspicion by the rest of the city, Roy argues that conservatives must 
become a tight-knit community. They become self-segregators, strug-
gling to justify their existence against the majority. 

Korean immigrants draw strength from their small numbers by pool-
ing in kae. Every member contributes money to the pool and money 
from the pool is doled out on a rotating basis. lmmigran~. who could 
not normally get a loan from a bank, get a new start through the help of 
their community. Organizations that funnel money to conservative



**Title: The Conservative Ascendancy at Yale**
**Author: Lee Tung Wang**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Conurvative Party at their weekly toasting session at Mory's. 
groups on campus justifY themselves similarly. Ar this strange and 
unfriendly university, conservative students would have no chance. Our 
curriruJum is diluted by diversity, our professors are overgrown leftovers 
&om the 1960s, and everyone speaks the weird tongue of political cor-
rectness. Conservatives have become foreigners in their own land. 
However, in a crucial way, conservatives still have an immeasurable 
advantage over Korean immigrants. Korean immigrants have no choice 
but to stick together. Koreans can't get loans from the bank, oonservatives 
seem to own it. Although oonservatives are numerically a minority on our 
campus, their influence is disproportionately large due to the financial 
and institutional support they receive from conservative organizations 
fighting to restore the old order. When conservatives talk of returning to 
better times (i.e., 1950s America, or maybe 1950 B.C.), they sound like 
}aoobires in eighteenth century Britain plorting to revive the f.illen House 
of Stuarts. The comparison is not actually that far-fetched. After all, every 
chairman of the PO R must wear a medal dedicated to Charles I, the infa-
mous Stuart King beheaded during the Civil Wars of the 1640s. 


Although many of the wealthiest oonservative foundations are well-
known for their support of think tanks and advocacy groups, the 
largest portion of their money is acrually directed towards influ-
encing universities and academic life. In a study done by the National 
Committee for Responsible Philanthropy, almost one half of all oonserva-
rive foundation grants went to academic institutions of which Yale 
received the fourth largest share. Between 1992 and 1994, Yale received 
approximately $5.9 million dolJa.rs in grant money fiom oonservarive 
foundations for projects ranging from academic programs to farulty 
endowments. However, the most immediately felt impact of oonservarive 
money is direccly on students. 

The largest and most influential group among campus oonservarives 
is the Intercollegiate Studies Institute (lSI). Although their official mis-


**Title: GOING POSTAL**
**Author: Andrew Yott**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Heading home for the holidays? Have you considered traveling by mail? 
First, take a moment to learn the ins and outs of the U.S. Postal Service. 

WHEN I WAS A KID, ONE OF MY FAVORITE BOOKS WAS 
Bruno Takes a Trip. In the story, the somewhat portly 
protagonist Bruno is gripped by a strong desire to 
visit his friends in the country but can't afford a train 
ticket. So, naturally, he sends himself through the mail. He starts by 
cutting holes in the bottom of a big box so that his legs can stick out 
and he can walk to the post office. He stamps "FRAGILE" all over 
the box and packs a blanket, a harmonica,· and, of course, a can of 
corn for his pet raven Hans who's going along with him. He ambles 
to the post office, is thrown on the mail train, and after a long trip, he 
finally makes it into the country. When his friends open their 
humongous package, Bruno jumps out and scares them silly. 

Most toddlers would read this book, this voyage of Odyssean 
proportions, and fall asleep contented, dreaming of Bruno and his 
raven Hans making their way through the United States Postal Ser-
vice (USPS). In contrast, the intrepid young scholar would toss and 
turn through the night, raring to cross the country in a washing 
machine box. But of course, this idea is ridiculous, Mom would say 
with a pat on the head. 

Fellow arrogant Yalies, now that we're all grown up, do we have 
to take "No" for an answer? Of course not. Like any other academic 
question we face, the problem of sending oneself bodily through the 
mail merely requires a little study into the intricacies of the USPS. 
After all, we're God's gift to academia-surely we can learn to travel 
through the mail. All we need is a teacher to show us the way. 

Enter Sheldon Rhinehart, New Haven's postmaster and a man 
who has a lot in common with most Yale professors. He even dresses 
the part, in an old-fashioned suit and tie. A thin black man with 
light brown skin and wiry, curly gray hair, he speaks patiently with a 
wisened, gravelly, and slightly squeaky voice. Like the rest of our 
gifted faculty, Rhinehart has also staked out a specialty in his field-
he carries a voluminous knowledge of New Haven's mail. Like most 
over-eager academics, no question on his area of expertise is too 
obscure for Rhinehart. When it comes to mail, he is willing to talk 
about anything, and he won't stop until you understand. 

Guided by Rhinehart, our assignment as students of the USPS 
will be to examine the most minute details of mail processing, to 
step behind the counter at Yale Station, and to carefully investigate 
the caliber of the vehicles that bring us our mail. There's no 
Credit/0/Fail involved; if our studies are not good enough, we will 
surely perish in the final exam, The Mailing of Self. 

Homeroom: Yale Station 
Rhinehart convenes the first class in the early afternoon behind 
the counter at Yale Station. It's very different on the "other side"-
you can see the backs of all the P.O. boxes, and for the first time in 
your life, you can check your mail from the other side of the box. 
(Still empty.) While Rhinehart talks about Yale Station, squeaky 
mailbox doors periodically squeak open and shut as Yalies check 
their mail, creating an odd classroom environment. 


The lecture material for the day is the recent controversy over 
Yale Station. At issue has been mail servi~numerous students 
have complained about hold-ups in receiving letters and packages. 
In a September 22 editorial, the Yak Daily News alleged that staff 
cuts at "the station have hurt performance, and cited mail delays of 
up to a week. "Yale Station has become a model of how not to r:un a 
post office," the Daily argued, holding that service, which is normal-
ly "slow and unreliable," has "deteriorated significantly." As students 
of the USPS, we must thoroughly investigate these charges. 

Here's what the controversy is all about: In 1993, Yale Station 
employed 18 clerks, two mail-handlers, and two supervisors. Today, 
Yale Station employs ten clerks, one mail-handler, and one supervi-
sor. Since the number of full-time employees dropped from 22 to 12 
without a corresponding drop in mail volume, people became con-
cerned. In particular, this fall, students returned to a fairly signifi-
cant mail hold-up. 

However, Rhinehart smoothly replies, as he warms up to his role 
as our postal service mentor, the hold-up, which was only a day or 
two, was temporary and unrelated to staff cutbacks. "The UPS strike 
hit Yale Station at a time that is normally very busy, as students are 
returning to school," he says. "The amount of parcels coming into 
the station quintupled to 25 hampers a day during the fall because 
of the strike." (A hamper is big enough to hold a few dozen pack-
ages.) Rhinehart says the problem is now permanently solved. 

Rhinehart justifies the staff transfers (postal workers are rarely 
fired) with increased automation in the postal service. Today, mail 
comes to Yale pre-sequenced. The clerks at Yale Station simply have 
to walk down the rows of boxes and stuff them. While the amount 
of work is significant, Rhinehart insists that it is manageable. 

Rhinehart ends his lecture with a personal tour of Yale Station, 
to prove his point. He proudly pulls mail out of at least a dozen P.O. 
boxes, carefully examining the timely postmarks before returning the 
letters to their proper place. Contrary to popular belief, an atmos-
phere of neatness and efficiency pervades. Even the president of the 
New Haven Postal Workers' Union, John Dizrius, who would be the 
first to notice the ill-effect_s of staff reductions, is reluctant to make 
any allegations of slow mail at Yale Station. Rhinehart wraps up the 
day by repeating a favorite phrase: "It's very simple. We get the mail 
in, and it goes in the students' boxes the same day." 

Guest Speaker: Postal Clerk 
The next day, the parcel window guy Robert Celone is both lec-
turer and subject as he discusses the ins and outs of being a mail 
clerk. Celone typifies the postal clerks at Yale Station. Casual and 
easygoing, he jokes around a lot. The constant rhythm of his work, 
moving around neat brown parcels and combing through letters, is 
strangely soothing. 

The parcel window guys are the surrogate Santa Clauses to thou-
sands of Yalies. Bringing goodwill to all, the clerks who work at the 
parcel window spread peace and joy throughout the Yale communi-
ty. Celone-slightly portly, wearing big red suspenders and a friend-
ly smile-even looks like Mr. Claus. Admittedly, Celone's delivery 
style is a bit different than St. Nick's; instead of nimbly sliding down 
your chimney, he drops a yellow slip in your P.O. box and you have 
to visit him at the parcel call window. 

He begins his postal lesson slowly in his amiable voice. He han-
dles questions with short responses, intermittently handing students 
their packages. 

"We get a little bit of everything around here," he says. "One 
time, an ex-boyfriend s~nt an ex-girlfriend-how shall I say it-
some bodily fluids. The way we found out is that it started having an 
odor." Despite strange events like this, Celone enjoys Yale Station. 
"Nine out of ten Yale students are really terrific people. I like the 
atmosphere in here. I try to blend in a little humor, kid around with 
them." 

When he's not delivering parcels, Celone indulges his old-fash-
ioned tastes. He listens to classical music and big bands from the 
1940s and is a fan of old black-and-white movies. Lately though, he 
has taken up the Internet on his Web TY. "My teenage nephew 
called me a caveman because I wouldn't buy a computer. They 
must've chipped the ice around the cave," he quips. 

Celone's easy manner reflects the pace and mood of Yale Station. 
December 3, 1997 
The backstage rooms at the post office have a sort of timeless quality 
and, upon exiting the station, the world seems dark and ugly in 
comparison. At any rate, we're ready for the next lesson. On to big-
ger and better things. 

Field Trip: The Mother Ship 
A new day, and we're back with our regular instructor Rhinehart. 
He has scheduled a field trip for today, to New Haven's postal nexus. 
We are about to experience mail delivery on a seriously macro level. 

Just a half-mile from campus, New Haven's main office sprawls 
over 225,000 square feet of floorspace. The main office-more rem-
iniscent of a factory than an office-spews forth an army of delivery 
trucks and Jeeps in the early afternoon, only to accept them into the 
fold once again at night. Inside, the ground floor, which resembles 
an airport tarmac, is too vast for even echoes to carry. Its surface is 
covered with a haphazard array of enormous machines, people 
milling around, and mountain upon mountain of mail. 

Rhinehart suggests a walking tour of the main floor; he pauses 
often to patiently indulge questions. 

How is New Haven's mail delivered? Rhinehart describes the 
complicated process: Mail coming into New Haven starts out in 
Wallingford, Connecticut, where it is sorted and partially sequenced 
by address. After it arrives at the New Haven main office, the mail is 
divided among the different carrier routes. In the early morning, 
each carrier takes the letters for his route back to his cubby area on 
the main floor, and sorts the mail by address. Rhinehart pauses to 
inform me that they do this so early in the morning that workers 
have been known to come to work with their pants on backward, 
not noticing their mistake until morning light. 

Once the mail for each route is sorted, the carrier stuffs his wick-
ets. Each and every address in New Haven has two wickets, or slots, 
for its daily mail: one for regular letters and one for magazines. Each 
carrier route handles about 20 linear feet, or about 5,000 pieces of 
mail each day. "The mail, it comes like snow," declares Rhinehart. 
"We have to keep moving it." Finally, in the early afternoon, the 
mail carriers stream out of the main office to serve Greater New 
Haven's 302 mail routes. It's how we get our mail. 

At this point on our walking tour, Rhinehart takes us near some of 
the heavy machinery. He expounds on the virtues of mail technology 
at length; automation seems to be a favorite 
topic. 

The bulk of the work at the postal ser-
vice is increasingly done by machine. Long 
ago, the postal service used the LSM, or 
Letter Sorting Machine. New Haven still 
has one which is used when mail volume is 
high. About the size of four pregnant ele-
phants stacked on top of one another, the 
awkward machine is operated by 12 people 
who can each sort about 3,600 pieces of 
mail an hour. More recently, the postal ser-
vice started using the CSBCS, or Customer 
Service Bar Code Sorter, which is run by 
one person and can actually read handwrit-
ing. But these machines are mere peanuts 
compared to the DBCS IY, the newly per-
fected fourth generation of the Delivery Bar 
Code Sorter. Operated by two people and 
about the size of a school bus, it can sort and 
sequence 18,000 pieces of mail in one hour. 

Moving past the machines, Rhinehart 
shows me the recently-constructed stamp 
cage, tucked away in a corner of the main 
floor. New Haven is soon to become the 
stamp distribution center for all of Con-
necticut-in other words, every stamp 
licked by every person in every household in 
Connecticut will at one time dwell in the 
New Haven main office. The stamp cage, 
with its sinister black fencing, says "No" to 
potential stamp thieves. One can only try to 
imagine this basketball court-size enclosure 
full of millions of tiny stamps. Rhinehart 
simply smiles with an air of proprietorship 
and walks on. 

Finally, Rhinehart shows me the train-
ing room. On our quick tour, he only shows 
me the outside, which has the capaciry for 
350 postal employees to train simultaneous-
ly. The windows are dark and it's impossible 
to see inside. Rhinehart implies that it is a 
mere auditorium. One can't help but won-
der if it's really a Navy S.EA.L.-style danger 
room with exploding mail boxes and rabid 
dogs, a true training ground for raw postal 
recruits. 

But, fellow disciples of the postal ser-
vice, we don't have time to fully consider the 
possibilities, because Rhinehart IS movmg 
on. To the parking lot. 

Case Study: Vehicles of the USPS 
Rhinehart seems to take his parking lot 
for granted. But the lot of the New Haven 
Postal Service unfolds before the eyes of the 
uninitiated like the centerfold of a smutty 
magazine. To even the most discriminating 
of car aficionados, the lot is a treasure-trove 
of sex-laden, muscular vehicles, painted a 
virile red-white-and-blue. 

T he Postal Service owns a lot of cars. It 
has so many vehicles, in fact, that if the 
price of gas goes up one .cent, their gas bud-
get goes up $1 million. Rhinehart runs 
down the roster of his best delivery trucks. 
There's the LLV (long-light vehicle), 
otherwise known as the three-quarter-ton 
truck. With a top speed of 80 m.p.h. and a 
life expectancy of 25 years, this model is a 
steal at $15,000. Its cargo bed is absolutely 
humongous. Its right side steering is avant-
garde, so chic and English. 

Then there's everyone's favorite, hear-
kening back to Norman Rockwell, the post 
office Jeep. Weighing in at a mere quarter-
ton, it is now being retired from the USPS 
after a long career of distinguished service. 
This previously unattainable gem can now 
be bought used for around $750. True, its 
somewhat boxy design makes it less than 
desirable for a night on the town, but think: 
utility, utility, utility. 

Finally, the penultimate and most recent 
addition to the post office family: the mini-
van. With its broad, wire-cage cargo bed full 
of jostling parcels, it makes other cars seem 
barren and impotent as it passes them on 
the road. Too elite for regular dury, the V6 
special-converted postal minivan is used 
exclusively for express deliveries. Stylewise, 
the minivan's suburban lineage makes it an 
adequate cousin to the post office Jeep, but 
its sleek body allows for a racy sexiness that 
bursts its conservative bounds. Rhinehart 
insists that the top speed of the post office 
minivan is only 85 m.p.h. But one glance, 
and any postal student with a critical mind 
knows it's good for 100 m.p.h., if not more. 

Attempts to take a spin in one of the 
vehicles ("C'mon, you can pull some strings, 
right?") are met with Rhinehart's firm but 
gentle admonishment. Alas, no go. Insur-
ance and all that. 

Final Exam: The Mailing of Self 
The culmination of our studies, is of 
course, sending oneself through the mail, 
what the top scholars in the field like to 
call the Bruno hypothesis. Is it possible? 
With bated breath, the question js put to 
Rhinehart. 

He laughs. "No. We don't take parcels 
over 70 pounds." 

Drat. 

This is where the average pos~al student 
loses heart and the aspiring postal profes-
sional shifts into serious extra-credit. So I 
scrjke out and dare to color outside the 
lines. It's time to try another carrier service. 
I bid farewell to Rhinehart's familiar USPS; 
at some point, I realize with a heavy heart, 
one must move beyond the comforting 
arms of his teachers and into the wider 
world. 

First, I'll need a box. I call Pack-Rite, 
Inc., and ask them how much it would cost 
to build a 5-foot wooden cube box with 
screened air-holes. The guy there, Oleg, 
informs me that it would cost $270 and 
would weigh 260 pounds and use 160 
square feet of plywood. Too heavy. 

What I figure then is, how about rrav-
elling inside of an aluminum canoe? They 
only weigh about 50 pounds and there's 
plenty of room to lie down. I start calling 
delivery places with the .premise of send-
ing a 200-pound package through the 
mail, from New Haven to Minnesota, my 
home state. 

Amtrak says they'll do it for $50. My 
heart leaps. But then they find out the 
dimensions of the box. They don't take 
parcels over three feet in length. Unless one 
feels like traveling in a 3 foot by 3 foot by 3 
foot box (i.e., in the fetal position) for more 
than a day, this is probably not the way to go. 

Next is Atlantic Customs. They're pret-
ry sharp and just hang up on me. 



**Title: Shipping Myself**
**Author: Andrew Youn**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
International 
Service 
Consultants 
pushes me for details. "Is your parcel per-
ishable or non-?" 
Oefinitely perishable. 
"What kind of perishable?" It's a big plant, 
I inform them. "What kind of plant?" 
Uh ... it's a big bush. "Sir, what are the 
dimensions of this bush?" I hang up. 
ABF Freight says they'll deliver an 
international parcel, but it would involve 
riding in a "really big crate," stacked along 
with thousands of other crates, on the deck 
of a cargo ship for a few days. 

After calling another half-dozen ship-
ping companies, I switch tactics and start 
trying more standard delivery services. The 
thrill of the hunt is exhilarating-sweat 
beads on my face and drips onto my cheap 
Radio Shack phone. 

UPS is a no-go. U.S. Delivery says 
they'll deliver a 200-pound package in four 
to six hours for $359.50, but it involves 
riding in the cargo chute of a commercial 
airplane. Their insurance isn't so hot, 
either. FedEx will do it, but only for $987. 
Of course, I don't actually tell them that I 
want to send a human through the mail, 
but the prices are nonetheless pretty steep. 

I finally hit gold with Yellow Freight, a 
trucking company. They'll do it for 
$148.10. This is only a small savings over 
regular airfare; my parents would be 
pleased. However, the trip would take four 
days in the cargo bed of a smelly, diesel-
powered truck with significant danger of 
freezing to death at night. I would soon 
learn the limits of continental freight deliv-
ery. Shivering, surrounded by strange, dark 
boxes and bumping around in the truck, I 
would yearn for my days with Mr. Rhine-
hart and the good old USPS. 
li1J 
Andrew Youn, a sophomore in Calhoun Coi-
kge, is on the staff ofTNJ. 
December 3, 1997 


**Title: Breaking New Ground**
**Author: Michael Gerber**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

At C0mmon Ground High School, one of Connecticut's 12 new charter schools, 
students apply classroom skills to a working farm in West Rock. 
Breaking New Ground 
I
MAGINE GOING TO SCHOOL ON A FARM. THAT'S RIGHT, WITH 
chickens, pigs, and crops straight out of those picture books you 
had as a child. Imagine algebra on a farm. Instead of solving prob-
lems about Bill the farmer's chicken pen, students figure out how 
much fencing is needed for their own chicken pen. And then they build 
it and decide how much food their chickens need. To learn science, 
they take soil samples-not from some random din between the park-
ing lot and the football field-but from a spot of land which will soon 
be filled with this year's crop. 

Of course, agricultural schools already exist, in states which house 
active chapters of the Future Farmers of America like Ohio, and . 
Kansas, Iowa, Nebraska . . . and West Rock. West Rock, one of the 
poorest neighborhoods in New Haven, is home to Springside Farm, the 
future site· of Common Ground High School, a charter school located 
on a 20-acre plot of land in the West Rock Nature Center in northwest 
New Haven. 

On August 27, the school opened its doors for the first time. Delays 
in the construction of the new building forced Common Ground to 
begin classes on the campus of Southern Connecticut State University 
(SCSU). "It sets a nice tone for the students," says Oliver Barton (BK 
'85, FES '94), a co-founder and teacher at Common Ground. "The 
students feel like they're going to college. However, they don't realize 
that means they have to adjust their behavior and pretend they're in col-
lege while they're here." While SCSU has been good to the Common 
Ground students and teachers, the school is supposed to be on a farm, 
where they hope to be this spring. 

On October 31, the student body and other members of the New 
Haven community attended the groundbreaking ceremony at Spring-
side Farm. "The students were really excited to see so many adults who 
cared about their education," Barton said. Each student got a chance to 
shovel some dirt in preparation for the construction which is currendy 
underway. Now they have one more thing to consider on their weekly 
trips co the farm to plant garlic and build a chicken coop: the bulldozers. 

While Common Ground's temporary location prevents them from 
being on the farm daily, the school's concept remains the same. The 
curriculum is based on the principle of ecology. According to the 
school's handbook, "Common Ground's basic educational premise is 
that life and learning do not exist in discrete disciplines; the world is 
interdisciplinary." 

Thar curriculum is the mosr distinguishing characteristic of the 
school. According to Connecticut law, Common Ground is required to




**Freedom in Translation**
**Author: Daphne Renan**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
FOR THOSE WHO VENTURE BEYOND THE GOTHIC GATES OF THE 
Yale campus, the New Haven Green is a familiar place with 
many familiar faces. Though Steven Spielberg's is usually not 
one of them, last February it was. That was when Dream Works 
Pictures undertook the production of Amistad, a historical drama fea-
turing an international cast including Morgan Freeman and Anthony 
Hopkins. The tale is as much a story of slave rebellion as it is a story of 
Yale activism. But one does not need Hollywood to uncover the tale 
behind the dark eyes of the statue in front of City Hall. 

Som~ 
p~ople say Mendi p~ople crazy; Mendi p~ople dolt b~caus~ w~ no talk 
American languag~. Merica p~ople no talk Mendi languag~; Mmca people 
dolt? ... Som~ 
p~ople say Mendi people got no souls. Why we fui bad, w~ got 
no souls? wt- want t<J b~ 
.fre~ vay much. 


His dark head is lifted with determination and pride. His eyes 
stare beyond the heart of the New Haven Green, and his jaw is 
firmly set. In one hand he clutches a stick; his free hand is 
pointed, bur at what? You move your hands across the scarves draped 
around the statue's shoulders; the man's loose pantaloons sway in their 
stillness. An African war helmet rests at his right foot. The pedestal 
bears the legend: "Make Us Free." The man immortalized in the dark 
December 3, 1997 
stone in front of City Hall is Sengbe Pieh, leader of the Amistad mutiny 
and rebellion. It was a hot and humid day in late August 1839 when 
Pieh was led onto the New Haven Green. He was not alone. With him 
were 39 men and three young girls. All were emaciated and confused, 
fearful and determined. They carne from New London, Connecticut, 
after being transported from Havana, Cuba. They were kidnapped 
from Africa. 

The Amistad was a small, black schooner that lefi: the port of 
Havana, Cuba by the light of the moon. Aboard it were Jose Ruiz, 
Pedro Montes, two sailors, a captain with his 16-year-old cabin boy 
named Antonio, a mulatto cook named Celestino, and 53 ladinos. 
These 49 men and four young children had recently been stolen fi:om 
Africa, and smuggled into the busy port of Havana. Bringing them to 
Cuba was a direct violation of the Anglo-Spanish Treaty of 1817 which 
prohibited the African slave trade by penalty of death. The Spaniards 
who smuggled them were well aware of this penalty. They waited anx-
iously in their vessel off shore and truSted only the night to hide their 
secret. The enslaved Africans ascended from the belly of the vessel, were 
marched into Havana by night and sold to the waiting slave traders by 
day. 

The laws were vague and enforcement was inconsistent. Though 
bringing the slaves into Cuba for trade was punishable by death, the 
sale of slaves Wrui permitted. Ruiz paid $450 
each for the 49 male slaves he chose. Montes, 
meanwhile, meticulously selected four chil-
dren. Ruiz ensured that he had papers with 
false Spanish names for each of his new buys. 

In June, the Amistad set sail for Pueno 
Principe. The Africans were crammed into 
the pit of the schooner. Each received a daily 
ration of one banana, two potatoes, and a 
small cup of water. They were abused both 
physically and verbally. Although they, did 
not share a language with their captors, the 
cook often made signs and gestures that 
vividly explairied to the captives 
that they too would end up like the 
dead pieces of beef that he cut. The 
Africans 
were 
enraged; 
they 
yearned for revenge. 

Cook say he kill, he eat Mendi peo-
p~we afraid-we kiU cook; then 
captain kiU one man with knife, and 
cut Mendi people plenty. ~ never 
kiU captain, he no kiU us .. .. AU we 
want is make us free. 

Pieh found an old nail and hid 
it, plotting silently, waiting 
anxiously. Then, finally, in the early 
morning hours, the storm came. It was the 
first of July. Pieh drove the nail into the iron 
collar that hugged his neck. He then freed the 
other captives as well. Together, they revolted. 
The cook was the first one they killed, then 
the captain. The two sailors disappeared into 
the sea, into the night. Ruiz and Antonio 
begged for their lives and were spared. Montes 
too was spared but only so that he could sail 
the captives back home, back to Africa. But 
~ where was Africa? Pieh knew only to follow 
·g the sun, and he ordered Montes to sail in its 
~ direction. But Montes and Ruiz devised a 
·g plan. By day Moores sailed into the sun, 
]? towards Africa. By night he rurned the vessel 
~ northward, towards Puerto Principe. This 
~ persisted for two months. Conditions went 
~ from miserable to unbearable. Ten of the 
~ Africans died. It was August 29, 1839 when 
:r the Amistad washed into New London. 


When Andrew T. Judson, Federal District 
~ Judge of Connecticut, went to New London 
~ to investigate the ship, something about the 
1:;' mutineers captivated him. Pieh walked into 
~ the room wearing a red flannel shin and Bow-
8 ing pantaloons. He moved his hard hands 
deliberately, making signs to Judson that 
relayed his expectation to be hung. While his 
hands acknowledged his helplessness, his eyes 
burned with hatred as they met Ruiz and 
Montes seated across from Judson. 

The Africans were awaiting trial for piracy 
and murder. Both Spaniards requested that 
the case be sent to the Spanish Consul in 
Boston, claiming that the ship, cargo, and sur-
viving ladinos were their propeny. Instead, 
Judson chose to hold the 39 African men for 
the next meeting of the grand jury of the U.S. 
Circuit Court which was scheduled for Sep-
tember. The Africans were moved to the New 
Haven jail, and the abolitionist movement 
swung into full gear. The case was more than 
a simple mutiny. It became a rallying point for 
abolitionists facing the question of slavery. in 
the United States. Were these free men or 
were they mere chattel? Could a black man 
count for more than three-fifths of a person? 

New London abolitionist Dwight P. Janes 
wrote to Yale graduate, lawyer, and editor of 
the Emancipator, Roger S. Baldwin, urging 
him to take on the defense. Baldwin was no 
newcomer to constitutional law, nor to New 
Haven. Born in the Elm City in 1793, Bald-
win graduated from Yale with honors at the 
age of 18. He was the grandson of Roger 
Sherman who was a signer of the Declaration 
oflndependence and a delegate at the Consti-
tutional Convention, and, ironically, a key fig-
ure in maintaining the legality of slavery with-
in the Constitution. However, the tides had 
turned, and Baldwin found that he was not 
alone in his abolitionist zeal. The Amistad 
Committee was formed to raise money for the 
Africans' legal counsel and to see that their liv-
ing needs were met. The abolitionists under-
stood that in order to make Americans sym-
pathetic to the Africans' case, the American 
people must first recognize them as human 
beings. The committee visited the jail often, 
writing reports that were primed and reprint-
ed in the press. They strategically worked 
towards changing the public image of the 
Africans. Konoma, one of the Africans, had 
noticeably protruding teeth. To erase the 
rumors that linked his teeth with cannibal-
ism, the committee wrote that he used these 
teeth in his attempts to attract women. 

' Whether or not the information was rele-
vant, whether or not it made much sense, 
the papers printed it. Soon, spec-
tators from miles away huddled 
outside the jail to catch a glimpse 
of the imprisoned men. Not only 
did the Africans regard Pieh as 
their natural leader, but the pub-
lic did as well. The American 
journalists praised his air of grace 
and poise; he was callea "another 
Othello." But the comminee 
knew that winning the emotion 
of the public could only take 
them so far. 

The real batde 
would need to be fought in the 
courtroom, and it would have_to 
be done on legal terms. To do so, the 
Africans' story had to be heard, and more 
importantly, their story had to be under-
stood. 

Dear friend, we want you to know how we fieL 
Mendi people think, think, think. Nobody know 
what we think. 

Josiah W Gibbs, a Yale professor of lin-
guistics, made communication possible. 
Gibbs often observed the prisoners as they 
were taken onto the New Haven Green for 
exercise. One day, he approached them, raised 
his fingers up in the air arid counted in Eng-
lish. After some confusion, the Africans began 
to count his fingers as well, but they did so in 
their own language. Gibbs learned their words 
for numbers and took this new knowledge to 
the New York and New Haven ports. He 
paced the waterfronts repeatedly, yelling out 
their words for numbers. Finally, he found 
two men who understood. They were work-
ing on the British warship, Buzzard, docked 
in the busy New York pon. They were James 
Covey, a former slave from Sierra Leone, and 
Charles Pratt, who himself had been seized


**Title: The Amistad**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
seven years earlier from Mende. They told 
Gibbs that the language was Mendi, and they 
accompanied him back to l'few Haven on Sep-
tember 9. Pieh was brought before them and 
requested to tell his story. He began to speak, at 
first hesitantly and then more freely. He said 
most of the men were from Mandingo, and 
explained that he himself was born about 60 
miles inland in Africa, a son of one of the 
"principle men." While doing business, he was 
captured by his own tribesmen for an out-
standing debt and sold to King Sharks, who 
reigned in Gallinas. The king then sold him to 
the Spaniards, who forced him to leave his par-
ents, wife, and three children and put him on a 
ship secretly bound for Cuba. Pieh was asked 
whether he had aided in the enslavement of the 
others. He replied, "I would never take advan-
tage of anyone, but would always defend 
myself" Of the captain of the Amistad, Pieh 
said he was "very crud and beat them severdy." 
He described their condition in great detail. 
While Pieh's account was, on the whole, 
accurate, it was not entirely true. In fact, most 
of the Africans were from Mende, not 
Mandingo. It was not until two years later that 
the Africans admitted they-had decided to tell 
no one their true place of origin-they did not 
trust their questioners. Yet, ironically, their 
language would play a crucial role in the trial, 
and in their eventual freedom. 

"Wt want you tQ ask the court what we have done 
wrong. What for Americans keep us in prison. 

D
uring his court testimony on the 
morning of January 8, Professor Gibbs 
explained the significance of language 
in the case. In order to win, the defense knew it 
had to prove the Africans were enslaved illegiti-
mately. It could do so by proving that the 
Spaniards violated the Anglo-Spanish treaty of 
1817. But, to prove this, they had to prove the 
men were not from Cuba; they had to prove 
that the blacks were Africans. Gibbs began to 
make this case outside of the courtroom 
through the press. Gibbs himself had Covey 
teach him Mendi. After accumulating a vocab-
ulary, he communicated with the Africans. 
Gibbs showed that each of the Mende prison-
ers' names was an object, place, or thing in the 
Mendi language. He explained that if the Span-
ish had chosen African names "haphazanlly 
and given them to Africans indiscriminately, it 
would, in the multiplicity of African dialects, 
December 3, 1997 
have been a miracle for the Mendi names to fall 
so exactly on Mende people." Moreover, he 
argued that if the Spanish had taken words 
from Mende and given them to the blacks as 
names, they would have "corrupted" words 
both "in form and sound." Finally, while it was 
evident that the blacks could not speak Span-
ish, they did communicate in several African 
dialects. In court, Gibbs concluded that the 
blacks undoubtedly were "native Africans and 
recently from Africa." 

The trial's drama climaxed with Pieh's tes-
timony. One observer later recalled the room's 
"breathless attention." Pieh's testimony struck 
the audience. He lay on the floor of the court-
room to demonstrate the conditions in which 
the Africans had been placed. When he dis-
cussed the treatment of the blacks by the 
Spaniards aboard the Amistad, he told one 
account of the cook hitting him. He was asked 
whether he thought the cook might have been 
doing so in play. "Oh, no, no," he responded. 
Two other Africans testified as well. One 
of them, Grabeau, explained how the sailor 
had whipped him and others for stealing 
water, how the cook had told them they 
would be eaten after their heads had been cut 
off. Then he admitted the cook was the first 
to be killed. They hadn't wanted to kill the 
captain, but did so after he had killed one of 
the Africans. Through their testimony, the 
Mricans made it evident that their rebellion 
was one of self-defense. Their case was tried 
twice before it was taken to the U.S. Supreme 
Court where John Quincy Adams headed the 
defense. Finally, they had won their freedom. 

After the court decision, Baldwin asked 
Adams, "What shall be done with them now 
that they are free? They are separated from 
their homes by the distance of half the globe 
and in a state where they might be pitied but 
not wanted." Pieh and his fellow men returned 
to Africa, but their legacy still remains with us. 
Because they were able to be heard, and under-
stood, they attained their freedom. From the 
memorial in front of City Hall, to the recon-
struction of the Amistad currendy being built 
in Mystic, Connecticut, the story of the Amis-
tad captives' capture, rebellion, trial, and free-
dom is told and retold. Now, the story of the 
Amistad will be told in a different language, 
that native to Hollywood. 


**Title: Wanna Fly?**
**Author: David Slifka**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

"Wannafiy?" 
The question sounds psychedelic, but it raises a series of mundane 
questions. Do I want to learn how to By a plane? How much time will 
it take? Is it dangerous? How far away is the airport? Is there a bus to 
take me there? 

The question has a very different ring when asked while 5,000 feet 
over the Alaskan countryside by a pilot eagerly handing you the con-
trols to a plane. 

It was through this spontaneous act by a daring Alaskan bush pilot 
«; that I was introduced to flying. It was more than enough to get me 
c: :; hooked. In the few minutes before the controls were plucked from my 
0 -; hands, I tasted freedom. 

~ 
This sort of freedom is well and good in Alaska, where you can eas-
~ ily be a hundred miles from the nearest road. Back home in New York 
~ City, there is barely room to park, much less take off and land. So, my 
.~ first round of Bight instruction had to be postponed until an end-of-
'; summer trip co Long Island. 

"' 
< 
>-
I learned to my dismay that flying is popular on Long Island, and 
~ the instructor called me to say that he's fully booked. Well, he said, all 
~ but 6 a.m. I took the offer in a second. 

t 0 
f I y
I caught a cab to the airport and arrived ten minutes early. Soon 
enough, a plane landed, taXied over, and the instructor hopped out. 
After a tutorial covering how planes fly, and a preflight inspection of the 
airplane, we were tip in the air. 

I have since learned that a good instructor makes the novice student 
feel as though he is flying the airplane, and I, for one, was fooled com-
pletely. Sensing only gentle assistance from the instructor on the con-
trols, "I" took us around the neighborhood and along the beach. I 
learned the layout of the now-familiar control and instrument panel, 
and we did some basic climbs, descents, and turns. Towards the end of 
the lesson, we were even able to locate a number of familiar local land-
marks. Were we waking people up while buzzing around at 7 a.m.? I 
certainly didn't care. 

I spent the months before winter break grounded in New York, 
lazily staring at my precious 2.3 logged hours and devouring anything 
written about flying. I learned the phonetic alphabet, the system by 
which letters and numbers are communicated dearly across the radio. 
The alphabet runs from Alpha through Zulu. The numbers are normal 
with the exception of the somewhat famous "Niner." I also subscribed 
co Flying magazine, which I still read. 

By the time winter break rolled around, I was aware of most of the 
topics a pilot needs co know--only I had no flight experience. 

Winter break was my first opportunity to solidify my flying knowl-
edge. My family went away to Arizona where flying time is cheap and 
plentiful, and I loved every minute of it. By the trip's end I had a good 
T.HE NEw JouRNAL 

chunk of knowledge and experience about the basics of flying, not to 
mention having logged 14 hours in the cockpit. My newfound experi-
ence ranged from getting the plane through the air smoothly, to per-
forming a preflight inspection. This had also been my first time speak-
ing to the control tower, which is the most basic unit of air traffic con-
trol (ATC). I still find ATC incredibly cool because nothing quite says 
"flying" like "Scottsdale tower, Cessna 55374, holding shon of the 
active runway at Bravo for nonheast departure." I was also pulling off 
some fairly decent landings. Landing is the hardest pan of flying. It 
requires slowing down enough so that the wings lose their lift, but only 
within inches of the runway so that the plane doesn't smack down too 
hard. A bad landing causes a loud crash and the seats to hit up against 
you as the plane drops onto the runway. A good landing leaves the 
plane rolling calmly and effortlessly down the runway. 

Upon my return to New York, my enthusiasm only deepened. I 
continued to read everything I could about flying. Despite my wistful 
glances up at clear skies on cold winter days (ideal for flying), Bight 
training was again postponed, this time until spring break. Over break, 
I made it up to 32 hours, and on the second to last day I was endorsed 
by my instructor to By solo-if, he cautioned, the winds stayed down 
for my final day. I checked the Weather Channel constantly that night 
and was greeted by healthy gusts the next morning. Despite some 
beautiful landings in a crosswind, I wasn't allowed to solo. 

I finally brought together my sporadic training of the last year this 
past summer. Towards the end, I flew as often as several times a week. I 
mostly practiced things I had learned before, but I also experienced 
Approach Control, a new facet of ATC. If you are flying from one 
place to another, you can request "Bight following." This means a con-
troller will watch you on radar and attempt to keep you clear of other 
planes, and clear you through any controlled airspace which might be 
in your path. 

My summer culminated with two solo flights. People often ask 
about the meaning of solo. "All by yourself? Really?" Really. Solo means 
solo, I reply, but even I was surprised by the lack of supervision on the 
second solo. All by myself, I got the keys from the desk, did a preflight 
inspection, started the engine, took off, flew, and landed. At every stage, 
it was a shock not to have anyone in the copilot seat watching and 
checking everything I did. But I hadn't felt independence until I'd 
flown in a plane which was solely my responsibility. After a year of 
obsessing, I was finally there, flying an airplane. 

I was eager to continue my flying as soon as I got to Yale. Unfonu-
nately, because of my schedule and weather, I only recently began flying 
here. The Yale Flying Club has planes that I've never flown before, and 
it will be a few hours before I'm soloing again. I can't wait-straight up 
seems like an excellent direction to go to escape the hubbub of campus 
for a while. 

Flying also inspired me to take a meteorology course here at Yale. 
We've all moaned about how our life is never going to depend, say, on 
our ability to solve a multi-variable equation. The excitement of meteo-
rology, for me, is that my life may actually rest one day on my knowl-
edge of this course material, such as whether a storm will be forming in 
my Bight path. 

On the ground, I sometimes kick myself to keep from going on for 
hours about the wonders of ATC, visual flight rules, wing Haps, land-
ing, or anything else. But of course, the real fun is being up there, cruis-
ing along, and having it all come together. There are lots of places to By 
around New Haven, but as we have all heard, it's the joutney, not the 
destination, that is irnponant. Being able to make the journey at 5,500 
feet makes it only bener. 



**Title: Prying Eyes**
**Author: Vanessa Agard-Jones**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Prying Eyes 
The invasive Western gaze on display 
by Vanessa Agard-Jones 
Baule: African Art/Western Eyes, curated by Susan F. Vogel. Yale University 
Art Gallery, August 30, 1997 to January 4 , 1998. 
I
T 
BEGINS WITH SOMEWHAT 
FAMIUAR 
pieces, works we have come to expect of 
art in the African tradition. Figurines sit 
singularly encased under glass, and curator's 
notes dot the wall beneath a map of north-
western Africa. We have walked into '1\rt: 
That Is Exhibited: Museum· Masterpieces," 
the opening of Baule: African Art/Western Eyes 
at the Yale University Art Gallery. Gathered 
here, for the first time, is an assembly of art-
work from this region of the Ivory Coast, 
Baule Country, representing an ethnic group 
of over one million people. Susan Vogel, for-
mer director of the museum, brought this cul-
mination of her personal research to the 
gallery in an attempt to redefine the Western 
notions of looking at African art. And that is 
exactly what we as visitors do; we look, exam-
ine, critique the line, the form, the detail, and 
the tone that each piece sets in this first 
themed segment. We do so instinctively, play-
ing directly into Vogel's hands. Our initial 
reactions teach us a lesson in the end-about 
our Western-ness, our assumptions, and ulti-
mately about ourselves. 

The first portion of Baule is placed rather 
unassumingly near the entrance of the muse-
um-not in a separate room, but in the lobby 
itsel£ We encounter this first section with the 
impression that it is unremarkable--we read 
the historical backgrounds on the walls, circle 
the installments, scribble notes in a lined pad. 
There is only a hint that this art will be chal-
lenging, because it comes from a different cul-
tural tradition and also because its presenta-
tion, even now, is a little different. The labels 
are less pretentious than the ones in the 
gallery on the museum's second Boor. They 
tell us what each piece is, where it originated, 
by whom it was donated, and the cultural sig-
nificance that it possesses, but that is all. The 
focus is on the bare analysis. We are left to 
look. But we've been well trained. We fill in 
the pretension that the labels have left out and 
walk on. 

The lighting changes. A screen on the 
opposite wall plays a videotape and the music, 
chant-like, seeps into our ears. ·Palms start 
sweating. In this next section, all of the pieces 
are not housed under glass cases. They aren't 
stilted and displayed like the classic Greek 
sculpture that we're used to seeing on the floor 
below. Here, there is raffia, cloth, texture. It 
makes us nervous. One half of the room is 
"Art That Is Glimpsed: Spirit Spouses." The 
intricately carv~ figures are the personal pos-
sessions of the Baule people, representing the 
other half of themselves, the spouses left in 
the womb the moment they were born. They 
are not meant to be seen by other people. 
They are private creations. We wipe our 
hands on our jeans and wonder what has 
become of those people whose spirit spouses 
are here, at the Yale University Art Gallery, far 
away from the Ivory Coast and their other 
halves. We sit for a moment with the smaller 
spouses, made for children, and read the 
admonition on the wall: "The original pur-
pose of a Baule figure can only be known 
while it is in its original context." But we are 
not on the Ivory Coast, we are in New Haven. 
Understanding the concept of Baule art with-
in both its own context and a Western one is 
the central task. It is this duality that Vogel 
has carefully constructed and attempts to 
drive home with graceful subtlety. 

Behind a thin muslin-like screen, a mask 
materializes out of darkness. It is Banked by 
large, colorfully batiked swaths of cloth, the 
scene derived from the videotape playing 
nearby. The music has gotten louder. We have 
crossed the room to "An That Is Watched: 
Entertainment Masks," but have begun to 
understand that . the watching is inappropri-
ate. Notes from Koffi Nguessan, a Baule 
artist who helped Vogel with the eXhibit and 
its accompa!ying book, explain that Baule 
artists seek to surprise with their work and, 
in ·that tradition, the Baule mask is never 
openly displayed. It is revealed, quite elabo-
rately and only fleetingly, during entertain-
ment dances and is then wrapped up and put 
away until the next time it is used. The 
masks hanging here in the gallery are unnat-
urally displayed. They are naked, staked to 
the cases, unprotected from appraising eyes. 
It is a painful sight. 

Through the corridor that connects the 
two parts of the exhibit, we find time to 
breathe but are unprepared for what is co 
come next. We encounter '1\rt That Is 
Observed With Awe: The Sacred." The cura-
tor's notes for this section remind us that these 
objects are kept in sanctified spaces. They are 
not made for public eyes. It is Baule tradition 
to divide the sacred along gender lines; men 
and women each have their own versions. On 
the female side the divine is captured in adya-
nun, the sacred women's dance, the collective 
property of women that men are forbidden to 
see. For the men there are bo nun amuin, or 
the men's gods, objects that women are for-
bidden to see. 

A young woman stands transfixed, indeci-
sive before this next, most powerful segment 
of the exhibit. Behind. her head a videotape 
plays showing Baule trance diviners, the 
intensity of the dancers' performance escalat-
ing with her anxiety over what to do next. She 
is faced with a choice. The space is fractured: 
women's ceremonies are behind one wall, 
men's behind another. She stands before a sign 
that reads, "Baule men do not want women to 
see their sacred objects." Behind her another 
sign reads, "Baule women do not want men to 
see their sacred ceremonies." She chooses not 
to enter. She makes the conscious decision to 
leave the male space unviolated. 

Her decision is perhaps the most intense 
moment that can be experienced through art: 
something that calls for comprehensive self-
reflection and self-location as both viewer and 
cultural outsider. To encounter a space that 
one culture holds so dearly calls attention to 
our own strangeness, the particularity of the 
Western psyche. The sense of being an out-
sider is acute. We are both male and female in 
this space, ghost-walking through someone 
else's sacred world. Our alienation comes 
from our assumptions about why we deserve 
to be there. 

The last section reinforces the sense of dis-
placement. With the tide ''Art That Is Dis-
played: Decorative Objects," the theme of the 
exhibit's final segment makes us realize that 
these pieces are the only enes that we should 
have been able to view all along. The placards 
inform us that Baule artists spend the majori-
ty of their time creating functional objects, 
simply because they are the only pieces that 
are seen and can be acclaimed. Here, almost 
tucked in as an afrerthought, is the only art 
that the Baule people would have seen in our 
Western way. We feel the callousness of what 
we have done. 

Looking back, though, it is difficult to 
accept Vogel's critique of our ways of seeing. 
We recognize its validity, but realize that she 
asks a great deal of us. Exiting the museum it 
is inevitable that we look through our West-
ern eyes. We have been touched viscerally by 
the experience, but are still muddling through 
its intellectual and personal significance. We 
have spent time looking and in that process 
have been forced to confront our own pre-
sumption. Bauk has left us questioning on a 
broader scale what else, beyond simply 
African An, we have been misrepresenting 
and mishandling with Western Eyes. 

18] 
~nessa Agard-fones, a sophomore in Calhoun 
Colkge, is a research directQr oflNJ. 
December 3, 1997


**Title: Accursed Verse**
**Author: Jessica Winter**
**Page number(s): 30**

Accursed Verse 
For aspiring poets, Yale University Press' Inferno is sheer torment. 
by j essica W inter 
N THE MIDDLE OF THEIR JOURNEY, THEY CAME TO A 
dark landing-on a little-used back staircase at Yale 
University Press-where the straight way was lost. Here, 
cobwebs traverse the corners of the walls. The overhead 
light has gone out, so that any pilgrim to the Yale Press 
building who wishes to glimpse the refuge of the damned 
must make do with the dim glare filtering through the 
single dingy window. Someone has tossed a · Fig Newton 
wrapper-a mark of disdain, ~scar of defeat-
into one of 
the 17 mailbins lining the musty walls. Most of the bins 
are labeled with construction paper guideposts, magic-
markered " INFERNo" and "PURGATORro" ; one lone box, 
which sits exalted above the rest on a rickety, abandoned desk, carries · 
the tag " PARADISO." 

All of the bins are stuffed with manuscript submissions to the Yale 
Series ofYounger Poets competition, which each year selectS an unpub-
lished poet under age 40 whose manuscript is plucked from the vulgar 
herd and published in book form. The labels, alas, seem but a.cruel 
mockery now. So does the epigraph to the portrait of long-dead Yale 
patron Earl Trumbull Williams that hangs above the poetic sinners lan-
guishing on the floor: "H is strength sprang from the cleanness of his 
heart." For this year, at the decree of newly-appointed judge and 
Minos, W S. Merwin, all submissions have been consigned to Hell. 

Merwin and Yale Press announced that they had abandoned all 
hope through a press release issued shortly after Merwin's O ctober deci-
sion. Isaac Cates (GRD '00) echoes their statement when he explains, 
"There is not a winner in the Yale Series of Younger Poets this year not 
because there were no good submissions but because there were no uni-
formly great ones." Cates is one of a dozen readers, a group mostly 
comprised of graduate students in the English department, who whit-
tled 700 applicants down to 15 finalists. Cates speculates that if the late 
James Dickey, who judged the series between 1990 and 1996, were still 
presiding, one of the manuscripts would have found redemption at the 
typesetter's-he was, after all, the author of Deliverance. "Merwin is 
putting his mark on the series by holding each manuscript to really 
high standards," Cates says. Another reader, Stephen Burt (GRD '01) 
concurs, "The bottom line is not 'Poets are getting worse,' but 'Yale 
Series ofYounger Poets has a new judge."' 

Merwin's decision forced an abrupt end to an arduous selection 
process whose way is long and road is hard. Back in February, like Vir-
gil's apprentices, the readers began guiding the submissions toward 
their respective fates according to Dante's system of the afterlife, a clas-
sifying scheme instated three years ago by Yale Series sponsoring editor 
Richard Miller (GRD '57). "Eighty percent of the manuscripts make 
it to Inferno within th.ree readings," Miller estimates. 

"Once a few more people have gone through the 
remaining poems, then Purgatorio needs to be purged. 
That's when Inferno overflows." Indeed, this year many 
exiles from Purgatorio were shipped to "INFERNO LAKES 
(bedroom community for those who work in Inferno)," 
located in another room of the Yale Press building. After 
Merwin rejected a first batch of finalists, the readers per-
formed a Harrowing of Hell, plucking six manuscripts 
from the depths like so many Rachels, Noahs, and Abra-
hams. Merwin forsook these, too. Just as all involved 
were losing hope of the. ascent, Yale &view editor J. D. 
McClatchy (GRD '74) presented Merwin with a few manuscripts he 
himself had solicited. Merwin gave one his blessing, but higher-ups at 
Yale Press intervened, arguing they could not award the prize to any 
poet whose collection had not followed the same procedural channels 
as the hundreds of other applicants. (This phantom manuscript, pure 
of heart but knowing not the ways of those On High, presumably rests 
its weary frame in the first circle with the Virtuous Heathens: those 
who are guiltless but without hope.) 

Miller, Cates, and Burt are all quick to point out that Merwin's edict 
is hardly unprecedented in the competition's 78-year history. During his 
12 years as judge, W H. Auden gave no award on two occasions. But 
Auden's tenure also produced a remarkable string of soon-to-be great 
shades: Adrienne Rich, John Ashbery (who beat out Frank O'Hara), 
James Wright, John Hollander (Hon. MA '77), and Merwin himself, 
among others. Recent years have produced no such notables; last year's 
winner Talvikki Ansel's My Shining Archipelago was scourged by critics. 
But Burt points out, "As opposed to novels, it takes a while for people to 
see when a book of poems is really important. The people who have 
won in the last few years have not been super-celebrat~, and it could be 
they're not very good, or it could be it just takes a while. Auden was a 
special case, but even with Auden, some of his selections were hit by 
trucks, some became John Hollander. But no one in 1957 was saying 
that John Hollander was a great poet. It's only visible in retrospect." 

Just as many published poets must spend some time in lit-crit Pur-
gatorio before ascending the sunny hill, unpublished scribes hope that 
a retrospective glance at their work will allow them to attain the lofty 
seat; as Cates points out, "We get a lot of resubmissions from year to 
year. That's especially encouraging this year, beca.use there were a few I 
wouldn't have minded publishing, but none that couldn't have used a 
year's worth of revising." Those thousands of poems awaiting recycling 
in a dusty corner of Yale Press, it seems, have some recourse. After all, 
revision is its own penitence. 

laJ 
jessica Winter is o junior in Saybrook College. 



**Title:  Arms and the Man**
**Author: George Bernard Shaw**
**Page number(s): 32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
by George Bernard Shaw 
Directed by Stan Wojewodski, Jr. 
Nov 28-
Dec 20 


Join us for FREE BEER-tasting 
Thursday, December 4, 1997 at 6:30 p.m . 
Free entrance with ticket to that evening's show. 
$5 cover for all others. 
AL£CLU~/_ 
at uee ~ep 
sponsored by 

No time like the present to purchase your 
Save over 7 0 % 
with the purchase of 
IITIJ ltii311T 
l•&lllllllttttK 
Here's how it w ork s ... 
Your student passbook entitles you to 1 tick-
et for each of the five shows at the Yale Rep 
d u ring the 1997-98 season. Reservations may 
· be made in advance either in person or over 
the phone. To pick up your tickets, simply 
present your pass with a student ID. 
That's it! 
5 plays for just $42.50 
only $8.50 per pl~y! 
For more information, call 432-1234 
