Publication date: September 9, 1983
Volume: 16
Issue number: 1


**MASTHEAD:**
- Editor-in-chief: Robert Moore
- Managing editor: Morris Panner
-  Chris Ryan
- W. Hampton Sides


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
Letters
Taiwan's private eyes
A Day in the Life of the Weeldy Bulletin & Calendar
What's a diabetic physicist from Manhattan to do? - by David Kipen
Beneath the Liberal Facade - by Mike Otsuka
NewsJournal
Troubadours, Inc: The Whiffenpoofs at Seventy-five - by Judi Kamien
Beasts of Burden - by Laura Pappano
A Whole New Ballgame - by Morris Panner
Sports
Mind Over Music - by Corinne Tobin
Research
Stepchildren of the Revolution - by Katherine Scobey
Blinded with Science - by W. Hampton Sides
Books
Afterthought


**Title: About This Issue**
**Author: W.H.S.**
**Page number(s): 2**

It seemed appropriate to open the first 
issue of the year by explaining 
something about who we are and what 
we try to do in these pages. The N~ 
journal, 
very simply, 
is a 
news-
magazine about the people and ideas of 
Yale, published six times a year. It was 
first published in 1967 by Daniel 
Yergin and Jerry Bruck. It was a 
bright, 
irreverent and often con-
troversial magazine in those stormy 
years. In the late seventies, though, it 
fell under hard times and eventually 
folded. In 1981 the magazine was re-
established in its present form. 

The New journal has changed 
drastically since 1967, but certain 
things remain the same. For one thing, 
we only write about Yale and New 
Haven. We don't run stories about acid 
rain or El Salvador, not because we 
find 'r.ational issues unimportant, but 
simply because we don't have the 
resources to cover them. We have to 
draw a line somewhere, and New 
Haven seems to us to be the logical 
place. 

Besides, we've often discovered that 
we can cover national issues here at 
home in ways that national magazines 
can't. In past years, for example, we've 
taken a look at Department of Defense 
funding at Yale, we've investigated 
President Giamatti's arguments 
against the Moral Majority, and we've 
interviewed South African playwright 
Athol 
Fugard. 

Last year, former 
editor-in-chief Andy Court won the 
Yale Non-fiction Prize for his story on 
the Holocaust Survivors Videoarchive 
at Yale, and managing editor Morris 
Fanner's report on Taiwanese student 
surveillance was ust:d as a reference in 
a House subcommittee investigation. 

Another thing-we're not a political 
magazine. We don't endorse can-
didates or take partisan stands. That 
doesn't mean we don't have opinions; it 
just means we don't, as a magazine, 
subscribe to any political persuasion. 

Please drop us a line if you're in-
terested in us, if you're angry about 
something we've done wrong or simply 
pleased about something we've done 
right. Enjoy the issue, and look for us 
in October. -
-W.H.S. 


--- Page 4 ---

llrmbers and Directors 
~nry C. Chauncey, Jr. 
Peter B. Cooper 
.,... Kelley 
Peter Neill 
M"IChelle Press 
1'1lomas Strong 

llMrd OJ Advisors 
John Hersey 
~rKirwood 
l!'.liiabeth Tate 

Prilruls: 
Anson M. Beard, Jr. t 
ldward B. Bennett, Jr. 
,IJaire Bennett 
Jonathan M . Clark 
Louise F. Cooper 
James W. Cooper 
Peter B. Cooper t 
Jerry and Rae Court 
GeofFry Fried 
Sherwin Goldman 
Brooks Kelley 
Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr. 
Lewis E. Lehrman 
B. Nobles Lowe 
)eter Neill• 
fairfax C. Randall t 
;Nicholas X. Rizopoulos 
J)ick. and Debbie Sears t 
&ichard Shields 
Thomas Strong t 
Alex and Betsy Torello 
Allen and Sarah Wardwell 
DasaieJ Yergin 

f Awas giDm a uaJnd time 
.,._ ftinul, &/Jtembtr 1, 1983 
'hArliwBoard 
BdBe~an 
:;:::einz 
McQuillen 
.""*'April 19, 1983 
Robert Moore 
Morris Panner• 
Chris Ryan• 
W. Hampton Sides 
(Volume 16, Number 1) 77u Nm~ Jounllll is 
~six 
times during the school year by the 
"-wjournalat Yale, Inc., Post Office Box 3432 
,. 
Station, New Haven, CT 06!i20. Copyright 
liD bJ the New Journal at Yale, Inc. All rights 
.......... R.eprodcution either in whole or in 
... wilbout written permission of the publisher 
edilur-in-chief is prohibited. This magazine 
..... ,Wled by Yale College students, and Yale 
1f..., is not reaponsible for its contents. 

The New Journal 
''I 
Volume 16 
Number one 
September 9, 1983 



--- Page 5 ---
4 
6 
Letters Taiwan's private eyes 
9 
Between 
the VInes 
12 NewsJoumal 
16 
Features 
24 
30 
36 
41 
46 Afterthought 
Cover plwto by Chris Ryan 


--- Page 6 ---

A Day in the Life of the 
Weeldy Bulletin & Calendar 
What~ a diabetic physicist from Manhattan to db? 
by David Kipen 


--- Page 7 ---

Beneath the Liberal Facade 
Strip Yale of her conservatism and you strip her 
of her idmti~_A 
by Mike Otsuka 


--- Page 8 ---

Troubadours, Inc: The Whiffenpoofs at 
Seventy-five 
Make no mistake, Yale~ once-informal a capella group is 
big business now. 
by Judi Kamien 


--- Page 9 ---

Beasts of Burden 
On any given day, there are 25,000 animals at the Yale 
M edical School~ Animal Care Facility. 
by Laura Pappano 


--- Page 10 ---

A Whole New Ballgame 
On July 16th Rich Diana walked out of the Dolphins 
camp and came back to Y alt. 
by Morris Panner 


--- Page 11 ---

Mind Over Music 
Ajttr four years of stUdy at Yale, Psychologist Mary 
Louise Serafine pioneers a new theory for musical analysis. 
by Corinne Tobin 


--- Page 12 ---

Stepchildren of the Revolution 
Mao's Harvest offers the fruit of the first gtntration to 
grow up in Red China's Cultural Revolution. 
by Katherine Scobey 


--- Page 13 ---

Blinded with Science 
Why the poets are in the dark. 
by W. Hampton Sides 




**Title: Letters**
**Author: Various**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Utter nonsense
To the Editor:
As one whose name was specifically
mentioned in the cover story of the
April 8 issue of The New Journal, I
believe that your readers deserve to
know what I told Morris Panner when
he contacted me last March and subse-
quently came to interview me on
March 7.

First I must set straight the nature of
my office. After severance of diplomatic
relations between our two countries, the
Coordination Council for North Ameri-
can Affairs (CCNAA) was created in
Taipei to handle and promote on our
behalf cultural, commercial and other
relations between the Republic of China
on Taiwan and the United States. My
office in Boston is one of the ten
CCNAA offices in the United States.

My government, deeply valuing the
traditional Sino-American friendship of
long standing, respects all American
laws and therefore never stoops to
engage in any activities such as the al-
leged "surveillance" or "monitoring" on
university campuses. We deplore those
elements unfriendly to our cause or
those who "often have axes of their own
to grind" (as Mr. Panner himself wrote)
when they employ shameful lies to
slander us.

It is utter nonsense to imply that my
office (or any counterpart office) gives
monthly "stipends" to student
"monitors."

As a general practice, students going
abroad for advanced studies do attend
some seminars before they leave the
home country. The main purpose of
such orientation process is to better
prepare the students to understand and
adapt to their new environment. That
is both a useful and laudable process. I
have never heard of anyone "undergoing
a week-long training session in which he
learns basic surveillance techniques."
And I very much resent such allegation.

Your cover article overplayed the
Yang Huan-hsi case and its alleged
remote, indirect tic with the Yale cam-
pus. Yang was arrested last January 5
when he arrived at the international air-
port at Taoyuan. After being confronted
with solid evidence proving his collusion
with Chinese Communists on the
mainland, Yang confessed to col-
laborating with the Communists. In
view of Yang's sincere expressions of
repentance, his age, his generally poor
health and the fact that he had acted
alone, the military prosecutor handling
the case had requested the court con-
sider leniency in sentencing Yang, sug-
gesting only a short-term of three years
of rehabilitation. In February, the
court went further than had been re-
quested by the prosecutor- by allow-
ing Yang to remain outside prison
walls, placing him merely under pro-
tective surveillance for the term of his
sentence.

Sui-chi Lin
Director Coordination Council
for North American Alfairs


Personal experience
As a student from Taiwan, I want to
thank you for your report, "Silent Dis-
sent: Taiwanese Students at Yale." By
giving Chinese Nationalist spies atten-
tion, they will probably have second
thoughts before publicly harrassing
Taiwanese students. in the U.S.

My personal experience of studying
at a public university on the West
Coast has left no doubt in my mind
that there are Chinese Nationalist spies
at the university.

When I first arrived at the universi-
ty, I joined the Chinese Student
Association. Even though I considered
myself Taiwanese instead of Chinese, I
joined because I did not want [the
Association members] to think I was
suspicious and put my name on their
"watch list." I was cautious not to
publicly criticize the ruling Chinese Na-
tionalist regime in Taiwan.

In December of 1978, former Presi-
dent Carter announced the normaliza-
tion of relations with China. [The
Association] asked me to take part in a
demonstration against the U.S. foreign
policy. They were angry at me because
I refused.

After that, I have been on their
"probable enemies" list. I know they
watch me and try to find fault with me.
What bothers me most is that they are
paid. In order to justify their pay they
may have to make reports. I don't know
if I will be safe if I return to Taiwan.


The letter signed by 32
[Yale
Taiwanese students] denying that spy-
ing takes place on campus, shown by
Mr. Cheng, does not mean anything.
If the president of the Chinese Student
Association of my school were to ask
me to sign a letter like that, probably I
would
have signed
it.
Very few
Taiwanese students would dare refuse.

Chen
Burbank, CA


One-sided
After I read "Silent Dissent: Taiwanese
Students at Yale," (TN] 4/8/83) I felt
sorry that there were so many mis-
understandings and mistakes in the arti-
cle.

Although
Mr.
Panner's
principal
sources are not explicitly identified,
material cited in The New Journal article
connects them with the Taiwanese Inde-
pendence Movement. The views of this
movement represent an extreme out-
side the mainstream of the Chinese
political situation. The Taiwanese In-
dependence Movement claims respon-
sibility for terrorist bombings and
assassination attempts worldwide. In
California, it has been banned for its
violent activities. Its systematic cam-
paign of distortion and its own admitted-
ly violent
tactics
should
make its
credibility as an original source extreme-
ly tenuous.

Mr. Panner cites the case of Lin Kuo-
Ching, a Chinese student at North
Carolina State University, Raleigh. The
New journal simply reports that Mr. Lin
was involved in a "controversy" and that
he fears that he cannot return to Taiwan
safely. Closer examination of the case
shows that Mr. Lin pleaded guilty in a
North Carolina district court to a charge
of illegal advertising in connection with
posting signs slandering another
Chinese student as a KMT spy. His
guilty plea was entered in exchange for
the dropping of a hazing charge that
arose from Mr. Lin's allegedly harassing
Chinese students on campus. However,
the very same person now told Mr. Pan-
ner that "I can promise you that surveil-
lance goes on in every campus in the
country, including .Yale."

Another point: the charge that any
defenders of the KMT are by implica-
tion campus spies should be treated as
the trial by innuendo that it truly is.
Rhetorical tactics such as this can have
no other aim than to discourage the
presentation of dissenting opinions.

The reader should at least recognize
that The New journal's article was one-
sided. It would seem that Mr. Panner's
unfortunate choice of sources has lent
itself to furthering the propaganda of an
extremist minority.

Name withheld
The author of the letter writes: "'I request that the
same protection of anonymity be extended to me
as to the sources cited in Panner's article. I have
more to .fear .from the Taiwan Independence
Movement than they have to fear from the
KMT"


Unfounded conjectures
The cover story in your April issue,
"Silent Dissent: Taiwanese Students at
Yale," was filled with distortions and
biased materials. It not only discred-
ited The New Journal but also defamed
the hard-working students
from
Taiwan, the Republic of China.

While it is Mr. Panner's claim that
he interviewed many Taiwan students
at Yale, he relies almost exclusively on
a pseudonymed Denny Liang for the
alleged spy activities on campus. But
even if one were to believe that there
were
no political motives behind
Liang's accusations, one could not find
a single piece of tangible evidence
which could support his claims.

Using Liang as a source, Mr. Pan-
ner charged Wang Li-dao, a former
graduate student in chemistry, as an
agent for the KMT. How convenient it
is. The only person who is so charged
is no longer here to defend himself. I
knew Wang personally while he was at
Yale. Here is an interesting character
who fancied himself as the James Bond
of the East. While it is possible that he
might have indeed proclaimed himself
as an agent for the KMT, many of us
also know that, on many occasions, he
claimed himself to be an agent for the
FBI. Would one then deduce from this
that
the
FBI
is
spying on
Yale
students? In any event, it defies com-
mon sense that a real spy would reveal
covert identities.

Apart from Denny Liang, Mr. Pan-
ner based the bulk of his story on
materials supplied by the Taiwanese
Independent Movement (TIM), an
outlawed organization in Taiwan as
well as in many states of this country
because of its violent terrorist activ-
ities,
whose declared mission
"dedicated to overthrowing the present
government on Taiwan" (p. 18). The
political motives of that organization
have never been in the closet, and it is
very clear who led Mr. Panner to the
elephant's tail.

We were told in your article that "it
is an accepted assumption among us in
the China field that surveillance takes
place, but I do not have any evidence"
(p. 18), that "common sense tells me
that it goes on" (p. 21), and that "it is
unrealistic to believe that the KMT
leaves Taiwan's students unwatched.
The stakes are simply too high" (p. 23).
Statements like these and otherwise
unfounded conjectures and specula-
tions fill the pages. The readers of The
New Journal deserve better than that.
We want the truth, but we distaste
incompetence in journalism.

Sincerely,
T.P. Ma Faculty Advisor to the
Yale Chinese Student Service

Editors Note: We agree with you that the
Taiwanese
Independent Movement
(T. I. M.) is not a legitimate source. Panner,
however, did not directly cite or quote any
T. I. M. spokesman. Panner drew from a
variety of sources: Congressional Records,
U.S. campus publications, publications both
sympathetic
and unsympathetic
to
T. I. M., Newsweek and Yale faculty
members.

As for the pseudonymed "Denny Liang,"
we need to make a clarification. At the request
of his sources, Panner used one pseudonym to
protect the anonymity of the six Yale students
whom he interviewed at length. While it is
certainly possible that some of them may have
been politically motivated, the confirmation
from the other sources makes it unlikely that
all of them were.

Says Panner: "I don't presume to have
made a definitive judgment about any ac-
tivities of the K. M. T. or of the T. I. M. I
had no political motivations in writing the
story. Rather, I wanted to broach an issue of
importance to the Yale community."



**Title: Between the Vines A Day in the Life of the Weekly Bulletin and Calendar**
**Author: David Kipen**
**Page number(s): 6-7**

Everybody has a favorite image for
what makes Yale Yale. For some, it's
the way the Old Campus bleeds
together on foggy nights and Bladder-
ball afternoons.

For brochure
photographers,
it's an ethnically
diverse study session in Branford
Courtyard. For President Giamatti,
it's whatever group he happens to be
addressing while passing the beanie.
But for me, there can only be one
magical microcosm capable of sum-
moning the distinctive sigh that says:
"This, (and for some, the quintessence
of the place abides in this very pause) is
Yale."


I am referring to the Weekly Bulletin
and Calendar, that infallible authority
on all things Yale. WB&C's calendar
sprouting each Monday from our din-
ing hall tables, presents a centerfold
more
tantalizing than any other
periodical not containing E-Z-Out
staples.

The Calendar provides a liturgy for
the religious experience that is an Eli
education. One typical calendar, that
of 5/23-5/29, lists everything from
neuroscience seminars ("Developmen-
tal Shifting of Retinal Terminals and
Its Relationship to Synaptic Patterning
in the Frog Tectum") to endorrinology
lectures ("The Islets of Langerhans as a
Model for Cell Interactions and Pro-
tein Secretion") to "Unfriendly Flora
and Fauna."

Where else but at Yale could Pro-
fessor Ellen Messer strike "Blows
Against Indigestion: Pharmacological
and Symbolic Aspects of Medicinal
Plants in Mitla, Oaxaca, Mexico?"
Where else could Dr. Edward Krug
draw his ominous correlations between
"Acid Rain and Sportfishing?" Where
else could Dr. Daniel Patrisso conduct
his much beloved "Urology Grand
Rounds?"

Where also, besides Yale, could a
writer take it into his head to spend a
day precisely as the Calendar suggests
that such a day be spent? To his
dismay, not even at Yale can this be
done, for many of the listings are
scheduled at the same time. For exam-
ple, were someone inexplicably smit-
ten with an interest in the Physics Club
lecture "Magnetic Moments of the
Charged Hyperons," he would in all
likelihood have to forgo the Q-and-A
period for "Apartment Hunting in
New York City." Then, after but a few
"Magnetic Moments," he must fly off
to a Medical Club lecture on "The
Discovery of Insulin: What Really
Happened." There is, unfortunately,
no lecture to instruct the dilettante
about how to be in three places at once.

What's
a
diabetic
physicist from
Manhattan to do?

He is, alas, to reconcile himself to
the fact that he cannot possibly do
everything on a given day. But he may
be consoled with the assurance that he
can easily do more than any sane per-
son could ever possibly want to do. It
was with the latter goal in mind that I
awoke one morning recently and set
out for a journey on the calendar trail
... 8:15: IEEE meeting entitled "A
Microprocessor-based Technique for
the Detection of Venous Air Embolism
During Neurosurgery." Not only did I
not know what the words in the title
meant, I didn't even know what IEEE
stood for. I could only assume that the
lecturer asked his wife what he ought to
call this new meeting series he was put-
ting together and she asked him what
kind of things they'd be meeting to
discuss and he said, oh, venous air em-
bolisms and stuff, and she said,
"IEEE!"

Anyway, this morning's speaker, a
Mr. Gilman, ticked me off right away
by talking about his experiments on
20-kilogram dogs. I ask you, what sort
of person weighs a perfectly normal.



**Title: A Day in the Life**
**Author: David Kipen**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
fetch-t h e-stick, 
demolish-the-
vegetable-garde n, molest-your-knee-
cap type dog in kilograms? Probably the 
same kind of person who's about to get 
his jollies inducing venous air em-
bolism in that same dog. Hell, I could 
probably carve up Lassie herself if I 
convinced myself that she weighed 
kilograms. But she doesn't. Lassie 
never weighed a kilogram in her whole 
life. Lassie weighs good old American 
pounds, and always will. I got out of 
Becton quick, for a man with metric 
best friends is no friend of mine. 


Besides, time was getting on 
o 
10:30: "Desmosomal Proteins 
and Cytokeratins: Major Cytoskcletal 
Proteins of Epithelial Cells and Car-
cinomas." 
Special Cell 
Biology 
Seminar. Might as well have been in 
Chinese ... 
o o o 12:00 The "Timothy Dwight 
Chinese Table." Now let's get 
something straight right here. I don't 
speak Chinese. I don't write Chinese. I 
rarely even eat Chinese. But despite 
the fact that I didn't have a C hinaman's 
~hance of understanding what was be-
mg said, there I was, taking notes in an 
alcove of the TO dining hall while a 
stately-looking gentleman with salt-
and-pepper cowlick held court before a 
rapt audience of five. He was probably 
a good speaker, because he looked 
earnestly at each of his listeners in 
tur!l, and they looked back at him. I 
looked back too, nodding sagely or 
chortling with glee as the occasion 
s~med to call for it. 

In this way I discovered how much 
people who don't know what the hell 
youlre talking about can look like peo-
ple who know exactly what you're talk-
mg about. Then a strange thought pos-
sessed me: what if no one here speaks 
Chinese? What if they're all bluffing the 
speaker the same as I am? 

I decided to test my theory, so I 
laughed for no apparent reason and 
waited for the others to join in. 
!hey didn't. People started to glare 
at me. There I sat, my cover either 
blown or modified to accommodate a 
Chinese sense of humor I know not 
how bizarre, trying without success to 
fmesse my obstinately Angioid cackle 
into a bemused Confucian smile ... 


2:00 I had been looking forward 
all day to Nathaniel I,.aor's Philosophy 
Colloquiumentitled"Freeto Go Mad." 
For one thing, I felt I had a pretty good 
idea what all the words in the title 
meant this time. Which isn't something 
I can say about "Acetylene Polymeriza-
tion and Olefin Metathesis"- the sort 
of title that makes you wonder whether 
over all these years you've really been 
understanding the correct meaning of 
"and." Also, I expected that after a cou-
ple hours of calendar-hopping, I'd be 
just about ready for a lecture like "Free 
to go Mad." What I didn't bargain for 
was tha~ in five minutes, I'd be mad to 
go free. 

Before the professor's first sentence 
was over, he'd already used the word 
"commonsensical" twice. 
When 
I 
flashed my best apologetic smile and 
left, several paragraphs later, he was 
still discussing many tangential issues 
he did not intend to discuss ... 


2:20When I arrived soon after-
ward at "From Marginality to the In-
formal 
Sector: 
The Changing 
Character of Third World Urban 
Poverty," one Professor Alejandro 
Portes of Johns Hopkins had already 
finished discussing what he did not in-
tend to discuss and was well into 
whatever was left. He was certainly us-
ing all the words that appeared in the 
title of his lecture, only I could tell he'd 
redefined that all before I got there. I 
couldn't leave, though, because I had 
spotted one of my professors from last 
year. Now, I had to stick around to 
witness the look of incredulity that 
would appear on his face as it became 
apparent to him that I shared the same 
fascinat ion with 
the 
c h a n ging 
character of third world urban pover-
ty. This points up one of the more 
desirable fringe benefits of colloqu ~urn­
trotting: that of impressing and/or 
flabbergasting any professors who see 
you. 

Abruptly, the speaker began a para-
graph with "In summary ... " Home 
stretch, I thought, hot damn. Little did 
I know the "in summary" is an 
oratorical convention 
which 
social 
scientists employ to mark the mid-
points of their lectures. After he had 
tossed in a "to conclude" and a "finally, 
very briefly," I realized that he was not 
merely observing one of the time-
honored customs of his trade, but in-
stead suffering from the advanced 
stages of a nervous disorder which 
m anifests itself in recurrent conclu-
sions. This terminal terminality often 
moves those in attendance to wonder 
whether the spectacle will ever end. 

For all I know, Professor Portes may 
be expostulating still. My departure 
certainly didn't faze him, as I stalked 
off to my last appointment of the day at 
the Career Advisory and Placement 
Service, where Coopers and Lybrand, 
Incorporated, was presenting informa-
tion on ... 


... 4:1$ "Careers in Accounting." 
Whether the pinstriped man with the 
blow-dried, Wheatie-colored hair was 
Cooper and Lybrand, I couldn't tell. 
But I nursed a private hope that 
somehow he combined the most unc-
tuous qualities of both. The aim of his 
profession he explained, is to maintain 
and expand one's client's holdings as 
much as possible, while naturally "try-
ing to stay within the letter of the law." 

I could tell right off this guy had the 
same regard for the law that a 
tapeworm has for a bowel. 

This accountant sat straight as a 
ledger column in his chair and looked 
at me precisely every twenty seconds. 
He spoke in a manner so good-natured 
and off-the-cuff that I knew it had to be 
memorized. His Ouffy head made a 
regular arc that took in aJI ten faces in 
the room. He reminded me of an auto-
mated sprinkler. This was the sort of 
guy who says "Quite so" when he 
means "yes," and "I beg your pardon" 
when he means "huh?" 

A hideous thought overtook me: the 
other nine people in the room- they 
think I want to be an accountant! My 
hands went instantly clammy. But 
wait- those nine people- they do want 
to be accountants! I ned, wondering 
whether my host was going to keep 
looking over at my chair every twenty 
seconds. 

This final encounter was useful, (as I 
devoutly believe everything in the 
Calendar is), if only because it sum-
moned many of my own career anx-
ieties to the fore. I fully realize the oc-
cupation of "writer" ranks just above 
Mafia chieftain and manager of the 
New York Yankees on the stability 
scaJe. With this in mind, I have altered 
my career plans, for I now intend to as-
sume a profession of far greater impor-· 
tance to my fellow man. Yes, make no 
m istake, I am the next editor of the 
Yale Weekry Bulktin and Calendar. Joyce 
Lowry has done a legendary job during 
her tenure in the position, but, like 
Willy Wonka before her, Ms. Lowry 
knows that she will someday have to 
bestow her trade secrets upon a 
carefully chosen successor. And when 
that time comes, Ms. Lowry, I'll be 
here waiting. You can find me at the 
Afrikaans Table in Commons-we'll 
go Dutch treat ... 

David Kipen is a junior in Ezra Stiks. 
Th~ op1n1ont f'lCPI"('"\.W'd 1n th1J tr<-uon are thow ()I th~ m<hvKfual 
wnc~rs


**Title: Beneath the Liberal Facade**
**Author: Mike Otsuka**
**Page number(s): 9**

"Who cares about Botticelli or Bach," 
wrote a Newsweek reader in response to 
a commentary defending a liberal arts 
education, "when millions of people 
around the world are dying of hunger 
and disease? Instead of spending years 
writing articles only they can under-
stand, why don't these 'scholars' devote 
their time to finding ways of curing 
cancer and abolishing world hunger?" 

Those at Yale who consider them-
selves liberals should take a moment to 
pause and reflect upon the university 
which surrounds and sustains them. 

This year, some $60 million will be 
spent to house and provide 5,000 Yale 
undergraduates with a "liberal educa-
tion" which, in the words of President 
Giamatti, "seeks no rewards beyond it-
self." They will be housed, fed and 
taught at one of the most elite and 
traditional of an elite grouping of in-
stitutions which seek to promulgate 
"higher education" at a significant cost 
to the rest of society. While millions of 
Americans search for jobs and hun-
dreds of millions live in abject pover.ty 
worldwide, $60 million will be expend-
ed here and billions more elsewhere to 
allow students to indulge in Kant, 
Freud, 
theoretical physics, 
multi-
variable calculus and 
classical 
literature. 

Through its financial aid program, 
Yale will foot part of the bill. But the 
bulk of the funding will come from 
parents, students and the govern-
ment. The cost of a Yale education is 
also subsidized by the generos.ity of 
alumni whose affiliation with Yale 
dates back to the school's all-male, all-
white, pre-enlightenment days. And it 
is sponsored, in part, by big business 
and the Department of Defense. 

Liberals at Yale cannot ignore the 
debt they owe to the upwardly mobile, 
affluent elements of American society 
which made their college education 
possible. They should ask themselves 
whether or not it is possible to preserve 
their beliefs while attending one of the 
most traditional and elitist institutions 
in the nation- an institution which, 
for centuries, has preserved the wealth 
and power of the wealthy and the 
powe~ful of the world's most wealthy 
and powerful nation. 

On the surface, Yale is widely 
reputed to be left of the political center. 
One summer ago, John Russo stood 
up before his classmates and blasted 
President Giamatti's "middle distance" 
speech during • Class Day. In the 
spring, students voted overwhelmingly 
in favor of the nuclear freeze. The Yale 
College Council championed- on 
paper, at least-a number of liberal 
causes. And large segments of the 
history and political science faculties 
endorsed liberal Democrat Toby Mof-
fett over slightly-less-liberal Repub-
lican Lowell W eicker in the latest 
Senatorial contest. 

But the activism of Yale's student 
body has never approached the legend-
ary heights of Berkeley and Col-
umbia. 
Yale's liberalism 
is 
more 
sedate, 
more bourgeois. 
Further-
more, when one peels back this outer 
layer of progressiveness, one discovers 
a solidly conservative core from which 
the university cannot deviate. 

Yale's architecture is borrowed from 
the Middle Ages and its structure from 
Oxford and Cambridge. In class-
rooms, the Old World overshadows the 
New World and the Third World. 

Much of w:hat is considered worth 
teaching and remembering was pro-
duced decades or centuries ago on a 
small plot of land which extends from 
Greece to France and north to Britain. 

At times, Yale can afford to be 
liberal. 
But not 
too liberal. 
In 
Kingman Brewster's days, the univer-
sity opened its doors to women and 
minor~ties, minimized corporate sup-
port 
for 
scientific 
research 
and 
stopped giving special consideration to 
applicants who were alumni children 
or "legacies." Alumni contributions 
fell. The university discovered itself in 
the midst of a minor financial crisis by 
the time President Giamatti took the 
helm. 

Those in control learned that they 
could not tamper with over 250 years 
of tradition. They learned that they 
could not stray far from Yale's often 
obscured and denied but conservative 
core and expect to remain financially 
solvent. 

Despite the leftist leanings of its pro-
fessors and the mild liberalism of its 
students, the purpose and mission of 
Yale is more amenable to the Party of 
the Right than the Young Socialist 
Alliance. 

For the university, according to 
sociologist Ivan lllich, has become the 




**Page 10 Advertisement: Team Computer**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 10**

**Yale: A Conserving Institution**
**Author: Milce Otsuka**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yale College has, no doubt, come a 
long. way from its all-male, mostly-
white, old boy, Northeastern homo· 
geneousness of the fifties and early six-
ties. It has travelled farther still from 
its eighteenth century roots when it 
was founded to provide a more dis-
ciplined, orthodox alternative to H ar-
vard and to provide an atmosphere 
"wherein Youth may be instructed in 
the Arts & Sciences who through the 
blessings of Almighty God may be fit-
ted for Publick employment both in 
Church & Civil State." 

The administration has attempted to 
atone for past sins with affirmative ac-
tion, the admission of women, gener-
ous financial aid and need-blind ad-
m1ss1ons. 

To be sure, the progressive changes 
of recent decades have made the Ivies 
more accessible to \~>right , talented but 
underprivileged youths. Some who 
have benefitted under these programs 
may pursue those liberal causes which 
enabled them to rise to their current 
status. Many others will lose them-
selves amidst the fine print of the class 
notes of the Yalt Alumni Magazint. 

By and la rge, however, the middle 
class, not the lower class, has benefit-
ted most from financial aid programs. 
Instead of only admitting upper mid-
dle class and upper class suburban 
white Anglo-Saxon males, Yale now 
admits upper middle class and upper 
class suburban blacks, Asians and 


women. The odds are still against 
bright, talented, underprivileged 
youths. Their secondary education is 
second-rate. The books which line the 
walls of middle and upper class homes 
are absent from their homes. Their 
parents do not speak the language of 
higher education. Nor are they sold on 
the virtues of the Ivies. While others 
fill their college resumes with stellar ex-
tracurricular activities, these youths 
often spend their afternoons working 
or taking care of the young and old at 
home. 

It is no surprise that prep school 
students are enormously overrepre-
sented at Yale and blacks under-
represented. Yale is not egalitarian, 
nor is it a pure meritocracy. The admit 
rate of alumni children is generally 
more than twice as high as the admit 
rate of applicants whose fathers (or 
mothers as the case may be for some 
grimly precocious adolescents) did not 
attend Yale College. This in spite of 
G iamatti's contention that the "coun-
try's promise that diverse peoples, with 
diverse origins and goals, can compete 
on the basis of merit for the fulfillment 
of their aspirations, is also the basic 
premise of the University's composi-
tion." 

No ·matter how much like-minded 
rhetoric Giamatti produces this year 
and in future years, ivy will still cover 
the walls of Yale, the chimes will still 
sound from Harkness Tower, students 
will still have masters and masters will 
still hold teas. Yale will still be Yale. 
Strip her of her tradition, her elitism 
and her conservatism, and you strip 
her of all that is sacred. You strip her 
of her identity. In spite of the notable 
changes of recent decades, Yale re-
mains one of the great conserving in-
stitutions in America today. It will still 
require a fair amount of ingenuity for 
thoughtful liberals to preserve their 
ideology and the sincerity of their 
beliefs while at Yale . 

Milce Otsuka, a sophomore in Trumbull, rs 
an Associate Editor of TN]. 
The opinions ~xpreued in chi~ sec:-tion are thote oftb~ individual 
writtrs. 


**Page 11 Advertisement: Newsstands**
**Page number(s): 11**

GOOD NEWS! 
RIGHT NEAR YOUR DOOR! 
Books, Newspapers & Magazines 
New Haven's Most Complete Selection 
QWSSTANDS 
#1 
Mon.-Sat. 7am to 6:30pm 
Sunday Sam to 6:30pm 
869 Chapel St. 
#2 
Mon.-Sat. 7am to 5:45 pm 
Closed Sunday 
#3 
Open everyday 
7am to 10pm 
opi;N 7 DAYS A WEE-I~ 
7 AM -
11 PM 
777- SQIO 


**Yalies in Hollywood and Beyond**
**Page number(s): 12**

.While Jodie Foster (now shoot-
mg The Hotel New Hampshire with 
Natassia K inski) and j ennifer Beals (of 
F/ashdance fame)" may bt> Yale's best-
known names in Hollywood, there is at 
least one other Yalie who has done 
quite well for himself in the film 
business over the summer. 

His name is J ohn Badham ('61, 
MFA '63). His direction of the summer 
hits WarGames and Blue Thunder have 
brought critical acclaim and, par-
ticularly in the case of WarGames 
financial success. Badham's Masters i~ 
Philosophy has encouraged him to 
think carefully about the moral issues 
inherent in his latest films and about 
the larget and more immediate dan-
gers of nuclear weapons. 

Badham's earlier work was not 
always so serious, though the quality of 
his work has been consistent. H e has 
directed TV shows for Universal in-
cluding The Streets of San Francisco and 
N(ght Gallery, and certainly his best 
known screen work was his direction of 
the now classic Saturday Night Fever. 

"The Last time I acted on stage 
or screen was when I was seven years 
old and played a wooden soldier in a 
school play," said Yale History Pro-
fessor J ohn Blum about his role in 
W oody Allen's latest movie, Zelig. The 
film is about a fictitious chameleon 
character who was one of the most in-
fluential people in the United States in 
the 1920s and 1930s 

"The film is a fake documentary," 
Blum explained. "In the course of it 
Woody Allen uses people who aren't ac-
tors to comment on Zelig. I play 
myself." 

Blum, who claims to be "the least 
well known" of the commentators Allen 
has selected, is certainly renowned on 
the Yale campus. H is courses on 
American public policy draw hun-
dreds each year to listen to his unique 
presentation of history full of anec-
dotes and personal reminiscences. His 
appearance alongside Susan Sontag, 
Saul Bellow and the other commen-
tators in Zelig surprised few who have 
ever attended his often dramatic lec-
tures. 

Yet Blum belittles his acting ability. 
"I'm on the screen for one minute. If 
anything, less. it's a shock to see 
oneself on the sneen, at least for me." 
Blum credits Alkn, not himself, for the 
smoothness of his performance. "Allen 
put me in front of the camera using 
great patience and skill. I think he's ex-
traordinary- absolutely extraor-
dinary." 

Blum's performance opened to rave 
reviews. The Nrw York Times wrote 
that he and the other comm entators 
"revealed a better sense of the absurd 
on screen than they ordinarily do in 
their writing." And maybe even better 
than in lecture. 

Henry Kissinger wasn't the only 
controversial person named to Presi-
dent Reagan's Special Commission on 
Central America 
this 
summe r. 
Another was Yale's own Carlos D iaz-
Alejandro, 
a 
professor 



**Yale Professor Accused of Sympathy for Castro**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
' 
• 
I 
.. 6 
EconomicS' Department. 
Diaz-
Aiejandro has been accused by some 
Cuban exiles and conservative groups 
of being sympathetic to the policies of 
Fidel Castro and other left 
wing 
leaders in Latin America. 
Professor Oiaz-Aiejandro, who was 
born in Cuba, earned his Ph.D. in 
Economics from 
M .I.T. 
in 1961. 
Three years later he became a perma-
nent resident of the United S tates. He 
came to Yale in 1969 and since then 
has served on numerous government 
commissions on Latin Ame rican af-
fairs.


**New Haven's Mounted Police**

Wandering around the Green 
this fall are the four newest m embers of 
the New H aven Police Department. 
Trained for five and a half weeks by 
the Ne-.v York C ity Police fo r their new 
duties, Crackerjack, Misch ief, Carla 
and Breton have been on the force 
since early this summer. 
The four-legged members of New 
Haven's newly-founded 
m ounted 
patrol now resides at the Yale Stables on 
Central Avenue. The horses were 
donated to the city and will be used for 
routine patrols and for crowd control 
around the Green and the Yale cam -
pus. For the moment the police do not 
intend to add to their mounted force. 
«If they work out," said Commander 
.Jim O'Neill of the New Haven Police 
Department, "then we'll expand the 
program ."


**Sherman and Shubert Theatre Renovations**

"You're going to get a whole new 
city," said Ed Yoe, vice-president and 
general manager of the Schiavone 
Entertainment Company. "You won't 
even recognize it." Yoe is talking about 
the two renewal projects, already well-
underway, that will grace the area 
around the New H aven G reen over the 
next few years: the Sherman and the 
Shubert Theatres. 
On September 12 the first of what 
will undoubtedly be a long string of 
star-studded dedications will take place 
under the marquee of the old Roger 
Sherman movie house on College 
Street. The Schiavone Company is us-
ing the invitation-only event to unveil 
the new name for the theater, which is 
undergoing a $1.2 million transforma-
tion from run-down movit" house to 
multi-purpose music hall. 
The renovation of the Sherman, 
scheduled to be completed around the 
first of the year, is just part of a $21 
million entertainment district centered 
around College Street that is the brain-
child ofYa.le a.lum j oel Schiavone (TNJ 
December 5, 1981). The Sherman, 
though now only part of the larger Col-
lege Street project, was once quite im-
portant in itself. It was built as a major 
vaudeville house and later became a 
first-run movie house where many 
films, including Butch Cassidy and the 
Sundance Kid, 
had their world 
premieres. It closed in 1979, having 
severely deteriorated. The Schiavone 
Company is trying to return the 
theater to its earlier splendor and to 
use it as an anchor for the entertain-
ment district.


**Athol Fugard's New Play at Yale Rep**

It has been two years since South 
African playwright Athol Fugard's 
award-winning Master Harold ... and 
the Boys had its world premiere at the 
Ya1e Rep. Fugard will return this 
spring to direct the world premiere of 
another new play, tentatively titled My 
En.elish Name Is Patience. 
Like most of his other works, this is 
a play about South Africa. Yet it a.lso 
i marks a departure for Fugard- for the 
~ first time the plot revolves around 
~ women. Though the play is not yet 
finished, and only R ep Artistic Direc-
~ tor Lloyd R ichard s has spoken with 
1 Fugard about the script, the Rep plans 
~ to present the play from May 1 to 19.


**Increased Student Ticket Prices at Yale Rep**

For students, seeing My English Name 
and the other seven plays in the Rep's 
season will be more expensive and 
more difficult than in the past. The 
price of student Passbooks has risen 
almost 50 percent to $36, and the 
number available has been reduced by 
500 to 2500. Rosalind H einz, the 
Rep's public relations director, ex-
plained, "We felt we were losing our 
shirts by underwriting such low prices 
for student tickets. 
Look at York 
Square Cinema. They charge $4 to 
$4.50 for their movies while we were 
only charging around S3 for <ilur 
plays."


**Title: The Whiffenpoofs of Yale University**
**Author: Judi Kamien**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
!!MDJlt 
POur~ Tale College ..U.or 
-
to fora n- connecticut corporation. 
Must enjoy travel, long hours, little 
aleept 
appear congenial at all timeat 
ovn set of tails. 
&lendable singing 
voice a neceeaity1 no pay, but superllr 
benefits. 
Apply Bax 2059 Yale Station. 
These are The Whiffenpoofs of Yale University, 
Incorporated- the world's most treasured college 
troubadors, who have sung their way from ivied 
obscurity to international limelight and who, since 
1981, have been running one of the best little Con-
necticut businesses going. 


These are the fourteen ambassadors of Elihu 
Yale who travel the United States and abroad in 
tuxes and white gloves and pass out engraved 
business cards after every show. They've had to 
hire a twenty-four hour answering service to stay 
on top of the business calls. And each year the 
members of this corporation log more than enough 
international air mileage to qualify for membership 
in even the most exclusive travel club. 


As Yale's most sought-after export, the Whiffen-
poofs command four-digit fees for appearances at 
venues as diverse as the new Tokyo Disneyland, 
the annual National Review banquet, Saturday Night 
Live and state dinners in Istanbul. They are 
honored at the tables of presidents, kings, princes 
and counts. They are feted from New Haven to 
Nice and from Manhattan to Monte Carlo. 


This year the Whiffs turn 75. Make no mistake, 
Yale's once-informal senior a cappella group is big 
business now. They still sing for their supper at 
Mory's every Monday night, to be sure, but the 
Whiffs of 1984 are nothing like the Whiffs of 1909. 
They've found that tradition is not only an excuse 
for having a good time. 
It's also something quite 
marketable. 
Judi Kamien 
16 The New J ournal/September 9, 1983 


Don't be fooled by the cavalier image 
tht· Whiffs project at some of their on-
campus jamborees. The Whiffs work 
hard. They are willing to let their grades 
suffer, to work 60-hour weeks, and even 
to drop out of school for a year (as five of 
tht• 1983 group did) to be a part of the 
corporation. They tour some 15 coun-
tries• during their world tour each sum-
mer and they perform over 250 concerts 
over the course of the year. There is also 
a two-week "retreat" spent on Martha's 
Vineyard in late August, and an entire 
month spent in recording studios pro-
ducing an album in the spring. 


The Whiffenpoofs may be doing well 
for themselves in the eighties, but they 
arc 
making 
their success by 
perpetuating the past. Although they 
art• without question the best-known 
and the most intriguing singing group at 
Yak, there are people here who have 
mixed emotions about the Whiffen-
poofs. Many students view them as a 
throwback to Yale's faraway Great 
Gatsby days, where the perfect dinner 
jac-ket and the gentleman's "C" were 
more important than the resume. 


More than once they have been ac-
cused of chauvinsim, of elitism, o( 
WASPishness, and it is still true that 
they arc overwhelmingly Anglo. In 
their tails the Whiffs can look rather 
like 14 identical penguins- there's not 
much room for original dress or way-
ward hairdos. Ivy League conformity 
is what the Whiffenpoofs are all about. 
and that's what people seem to go for 
"If our audiences didn't think of us as a 
group, we wouldn't be going around 
the world," says John Rogers, an ef-
fusive second tenor who took the year 
off. "None of us is a Lola Falaoa or a 
Mick Jagger." 


The stylish, conservative, and often 
superficial lifestyle which they have so 
carefully cultivated can make the Whiffs 
seem more than a little arrogant at 
times. Like modern-day patricians, the 
WhtO's somehow always manage to look 
<Ls though they lead lives of uncom-
promising leisure. But it is exactly this 
quality that makes them one of those 
charming anachronisms on the Yale 
campus of the eighties. They make it 
look all so easy. When you listen to "The 
Whiffenpoof Song" reverberating_ from 
the rafters of Battell Chapel, the sound 
of their voices is impossibly remote. 


And if you dose your eyes and compare 
the sound to a 1953 recording of the 
same song, you'll hear absolutely no dif-
ference. The WhiiTenpoofs are a strange 
amalgam- part fraternity, part glee 
club, part drinking society-dandies 
straight from a Cole Porter lyric. 
•7"N 1983 Wlulfmpoof World Tour jafJon, Tatwan, 
Hong Kotl(, 7Miltmd, Singapor~. Cr«a, Turkey, 114/y, 
Mofi(Uo, Au.rtna, Frtme~, England, lr~lartd 
18 The New Journal/September 9, 1983



**Title: The Whiffenpoofs, Inc.**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
" " 
In their forays into the "real world," 
the Whiffenpoofs are a symbol to many 
people of what American college life is 
-or at least was - like. There is certain-
ly more than a touch of calculated 
nostalgia worked into their routines. 
Retired Yale Professor Thomas G. 
Bergin, in an interview last year, called 
them 
representatives 
of "carefree, 
wistful, doomed youth." In the eyes of 
many alumni, the Whiffenpoofs, like the 
senior secret societies, arc one of the last 
remaining holdouts from the days when 
things were done for God, for country, 
and for mother Yale. 
Elitist or 
not, 
WASPish or not, 
nostalgic or not, the Whiffs are in de· 
mand. "People take us very seriously," 
says Rob Carter, the savvy business 
manager of the 1983 group. How ser-
iously? Well, the four-digit price tag 
the Whiffs come with is no joke. "Most 
of the time we tailor our concert fees to 
what is expected of us," Carter ex· 
plains. "We average about $1000 per 
concert- including benefits-and we 
do a lot of those. If you want to work 
that out ... " Carter grins, implying 
that the Whiffs are not doing so badly 
at all. 

"You have to be charming 
on call. Even at the 21 Club, 
that can get to be a drag." 

"Not badly at all" would of course be 
a serious understatement. The Whif-
fenpoofs, Inc. are paid a lot of money. 
They are rumored to have grossed in 
excess of $10,000 for their 4-minute 
appearance on Saturday Night Live 
in the winter of 1981, and at least as 
much for this year's National Reww 
banquet in Washington. They also 
sang the National Anthem at last year's 
Cotton Bowl in Dallas, and made an 
appearance at the Playboy Club in 
Tokyo. And it would be impossible to 
calculate the value of the corporate 
benefits. This summer in Salzburg, 
Austria, a count by the name of 
Weiderdorf threw a special banquet for 
the Whiffenpoofs: J4 tables, each one 
named after a Whiffenpoof, each one 
hosted by a Whiffenpoof. 

And then there are the benefactors. 
Like any solvent corporation in the 
entertainment business, 
the Whiffs 
have a number of private donors who 
help keep the group going- to the tune 
of another six figures a year. It is these 
benefactors who make 
the 
annual 
world tour possible. Understandably, 
the Whiffs refuse to name names. "It 
wouldn't be professional to talk about 
these people," says Carter, with a pro-
tective air. "They clearly want to re-
main anonymous." 

As a 
non-profit corporation, 
Whiffs spend all their money on 
operating expenses. Like the engraved 
business cards, the matching let· 
terhead stationery and the anwering 
service. True, they have to provide 
their own set of tails, but that expense 
is their only personal layout. The 
world tour takes a big bite out of the 
Whiff pocketbook, but there's enough 
left over for a two-week tour of the 
West Coast every winter. Another big 
chunk of their money goes for record-


**The Whiffenpoofs: An Anachronism in White Tie and Tails**
**Author: Judi Kamim**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Come in and enJoy the 
game on one of our four TV's 
We serve daily luncheon 
and dinner specials 
H app y Hour 
4-6 
h ors d'oeuvres 

NEW HAVEN 
22 The New Journal/September 9, 1983 
much of it is really quite artificial and 
tedious. •rve met 70-year-old men for 
whom being a Whiffenpoof was it; says 
1983 pitchpipe David Payne. "That's 
scary." It might seem strange that a 
group that has worked so hard to 
cultivate an image should feel pressured 
by it, but many of the Whiffs will tell 
you that there are definite drawbacks to 
being a valuable social contact. "I 
resented the fact that there were a lot of 
people who nev~r seemed to have time 
for me before I was tapped," remem-
bers Rogers. "All of the sudden, after I 
was tapped, they had time." 

Some of the oldest Whiffenpoof tradi-
tions are taken by many people to be a 
sign of snobbish insularity. After all, 
most of those traditions are closed to the 
outside world, like those of the secret 
societies. For instance, the W hiffenpoofs 
are tapped into nicknames handed down 
through the years. Each member has a 
specific duty to the group, and an ap-
propriate title to go with it. Some of the 
titles are standard: historian, pitch-
pipe, business manager. Others are a 
little more esoteric: the Nadir is the 
one who has to see the bottom of every 
cup drunk at Mory's. The Turkey 
dresses in star-spangled satin tuxes for 
every concert. The Boy Scout makes 
sure that every Whiff is on time for 
whatever's happening. T he Apoth-
ecary 
provides 
well, 
the 
Apothecary provides. 

Of course the oldest Whiffenpoof 
tradition is being an all-male group. And 
on the Yale campus it has become a 
popular sport to speculate on why. The 
fact that the Whiffs remain exclusively 
male has led to all kinds of rumors about 
their sexuality. It's al1 old joke that the 
group consists of the Whiffs and the 
Poofs. But the answer to why the Whif-
fenpoofs don't admit women seems 
simply to be that the sound of the 
group would be irrevocably changed. "If 
women had men's voices, we'd be happy 
to admit 
them," explains Jamie 
Saakvitne, a bass who dropped out of 
school for a year to be a W hiff. Payne 
elaborates on this point: "We have 300 
arrangements collected over 75 years. 
They're all for male voices. We couldn't 
just admit women and sing the same 
songs. We'd have to throw out the entire 
repertoire. Wom en are proud of creat-


--- Page 23 ---

ing their own traditions, and they should 
be," says Payne, referring to Yale's two-
year-old senior women's singing gt:aup, 
Whim 'n' Rhythm. "Then, too. we don't 
want to be another Red, Hot and Blue. 
They're a tough act to follow. They get 
the best men-and the best women-on 
campus. They're terribly professional, 
terribly efficient." 

It seems patronizing for a Whiffen-
poof to talk about the "efficiency" of 
another singing group. Yet part of the 
Whiffenpoof success story, according to 
a former Whim, is that for all their 
slick professionalism they have never 
lost their personal touch. "They're just 
incredibly nice people," she says. "The 
way they reach out to others through 
their music is something no other 
group here has ever come close to." 

Music after all, is the primary reason 
the Whiffenpoofs still exist. Whiffenpoof 
performances have a style all their 
own- they mix college-kid humor and 
intricate harmonization with a 
gentlemanly ease that's hard to find at 
Yale anymore. Whiffenpoof concerts, 
no matter how difficult, no matter how 
contrived, always look spontaneous. "It's 
pretty damn hard to look like a carefree 
college senior when it's your seventh 
concert of the week, you've got two 
papers overdue, your girlfriend 
is 
threatening to leave you, and you've got 
bronchitis," says Whiffenpoof John 
Swing. 

But that impression of adolescent 
complacency must be maintained. It is 
about all that keeps this lingering 
anachronism in business. But if they can 
remain as successful as they have been 
in the marketing of old traditions, it's a 
safe bet that on their 150th Anniversary, 
the Whiffenpoofs, Inc. will still be sitting 
down to state dinners somewhere in the 
Orient or bringing nostalgic professors 
and sentimental alumni to tears on Mon-
day nights with those old familiar lines. 
To the tAbles down at Mary's 
To the p!oce where Louis dweUs 
To the dear old Temple bar we love so well 
Sing the Whi.ffenpoofs assembled, with 
their glasses raised on high 
And the magic of their singing casts a spell. 
It's amazing what white tie and tails will 
do for your image . 
• 
Judi Kamim is a junior in Morse.


**Beasts of the Yale Medical School**
**Author: Laura Pappano**
**Page number(s): 24**

In the steam tunnels, vein-like clusters 
of pipe course through the passage-
ways. Bloated with traffic, the tunnels 
are like anerit•s. An orange G.E. trac-. 
tor, tagged "The Lil' Bo Peep Express," 
ferrit·s 
50-pound bags of Purina 
Monkey Chow to proper destinations. 
The tractor beeps insistently as scien-
tists, 
veterinarians and technicians 
scurry from its path. Across the street 
at Yale-New llavcn l lospital, few pa-
tients have ever S<'<'n this area. Many 
do not even know that it exists. But, to 
the dot·tors who treat them, animal 
research often provides the key to their 
success. 

At any given time, there are 25,000 
animals at the Yale M edical School 
facilities . Ov<·r the course of a year, 
rescarcht•rs at Yak usc more than 
170,000 animals. This is a relatively 
small numb<·r <:omparcd to the roughly 
60 million animals that arc used every 
year nationwide. The.• use of these 
animals for research is an emotionally 
char~t·d issue gem·ratin~ national a nd 
international controversy. In Great 
Britain, tlw opponents of animal re-
search have formed their own political 
party, th<· Anti-Vivisectionists. In the 
United States, anti-vivisection groups 
have gained nationwide support. The 
New 
England Anti-Vivisectionist 
Society, one of the strongest, had a 
net worth of over $1 million last year. 

But, for all the public fervor, the 
moral dikmma is most immediate for 
the peopk who deal with the animals 
every day. 

"I like to play with the lambs and pet 
them," says Kirsten .Jacobson, assistant 
researcher to Dr. Bruce Pitt at the Yale 
24 The New Journal/September 9, 1983 
Medical School. "They get to trust you 
so much so they don't baa when you 
take them up to the lab. You're like 
their second mother. But you get into 
this work bt·cause you're a scientist." 

Jacobson and other assistant research-
ers provide the link between the scien-
tists in their labs and the animals in 
their cages. Jt is a morally and emo-
tionally taxing job to have to care for 
an animal for the duration of an ex-
periment. Most of the animal research 
at Yale i~ long-term survival research. 
A single experiment will monitor an 
animal's progress over the course of 
months or even years . .Jacobson works 
with seven to I 0 lambs per year in ex-
periments on lung physiology. All of 
the lambs will survive several months. 
This extended contact makes it all the 
more difficult for Jacobson to deposit 
the dead animals in the freezer. "You 
just do it quickly," she says. 

Jacobson, who ~raduated from col-
lege two years ago, grew up on a ranch 
in 
Colorado. 
"Working with lab 
animals is similar to working with 
ranch animals," she says. "You play 
with them, but you know that in the 
spring all of the calves will go to 
market." Although Jacobson grew up 
with the 
necessity of sacrificing 
animals, she is still sensitive to com-
ments about her work. "One lady got 
mad at me when I was bringing a lamb 
up in the elevator-she called me a .. 
murderer," she says. "I can't under-
stand that- especially when they are 
employees of the Medical School ot the 
Hospital. They should know better. If 
we lose an animal, we feel really terri-
ble." 



**The Use of Animals in Research at Yale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Once it has been anesthetized, it becomes research, and the animal stops being an animal."
Jacobson believes in the importance of her work. In one study, Jacobson assists in research designed to simulate oxygen deprivation in newborn children. The results from this study ultimately may help doctors treat babies who might otherwise suffer chronic organ damage. Jacobson also realizes the value of the surgical experience that doctors gain from using animals. "Surgery is so precise that you just can't play around. You really need to know what you're doing," she says. "Advances are made in new techniques which result from doing one tiny thing differently. It's much better to learn on an animal than on a person."
To do her work well, Jacobson must maintain a level of scientific detachment, regardless of how much she may care for the animals. "I don't think a surgeon could do his work well if he kept feeling for the patient," she insists.
But unlike a surgeon, Jacobson knows that in some cases the patients are not intended to survive. "In using an animal for a chronic study, there are two points at which you feel badly. The first point is when you bring the animal up to the lab. The other is when you actually anesthetize the animal. Once it has been anesthetized, though, the animal is out cold. It becomes a job and you do your thing. It becomes research, and the animal stops being an animal."
The researchers themselves rarely see the animals except during the actual study. For Pitt and other scientists, the animals serve as complex scientific models. Their primary purpose is to supply information. The whole relationship to the animal changes. "If an extremely valuable animal is involved in valuable research," explains Pitt, "we are more likely to give it a name. Almost invariably there is an attachment to animals that provide longitudinal period data."


**Title: Yale's Animal Research Program**
**Author: Laura Pappano**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Not all of the technicians work with 
the animals at such an intense level. 
Yale breeds some of its own research 
animals at a 14-acre farm in Bethany, 
Connecticut. Technicians there are 
more like farm hands, tending the 
livestock in the barn and the dogs in 
the kennels. Twenty minutes from the 
Yale campus, the relaxed, rural at-
mosphere of the farm seems far from 
the pressures of the experiments at the 
Med School. The sheep graze in a 
fenced-in field. The pigs rub their 
snouts against the rough wood s~y in 
the new barn. One pig is a little bigger 
than the others. He is, according to 
Brickett, "the ugliest pig in the world." 
Big Bert, Yale's premier breeding 
swine is a "pig with a whole lot of 
character," claims 
one 
technician 
defensively. 

Like all the other animals connected 
with the labs, however, the farm 
animals are destined for specific ex-
periments. Big Bert, despite his looks, 
is a genetically pure animal who will be 
used in breeding for organ transplant 
experiments. Unlike Jacobson or her 
boss Dr. Pitt, the technicians here in 
Bethany never really need to exercise 
any detachment. They never see the 
animals suffer. They can worry about 
the animals, but in the end, there will 
always be another Big Bert. 

"The veterinary philosophy is not to get 
involved in the argument-we will let 
the two forces argue it out and do our 
job as directed," says Dr. Steven 
Barthold, a veterinarian and acting 
Director of Yale's Division of Animal 
Care. Barthold would seem to have an 
impossibly contradictory 
role. 
As 
director of the division, he approves 
proposals for animal research that 
ultimately lead 
to 
the animals' 
sacrifice. Yet, as a veterinarian, he is 
responsible for preserving the health of 
the animals. As a result, he must settle 
on an uneasy neutrality. 

"From a professional point of view, 
as veterinarians, 
we 
all 
have 
philosophical problems with animal 
research. We tend to be more animal 
rights advocates 
than 
unlimited 
research advocates," says Barthold. At 
the same time, however, Barthold em-
phasizes the importance of animal-
related studies. "I don't think that peo-
ple realize what effect the lack of 
animal. research would have on their 
lives." 

In practice, Barthold a nd other 
veterinarians resolve the philosophical 
conflict with an ambivalent com-
promise. They only approve animals 
for research when they are sure that 
the experiment causes as little pain as 
possible. 
They 
a lso provide the 
animals with care while they are at the 
facility. 

The federal government plays a 
prominent ·role in insuring animal 
care. "If there were no federal regula-
tions governing the use of animals in 
research," 
asserts 
Barthold, 
"there 
would be no veterinarians in the Yale 
Medical School." The Animal Welfare 
Act establishes certain standards for 
the use and treatment of animals in 
research. Connecticut also legislates a 
number of specific guidelines, in-
cludin'g a prohibition against operatiny 
on the same animal more than once. 
In addition, the National Institutes 
of H ealth (N. I. H.), one o f the in-
vestigators' chief sources of grant fund-
ing, has its own set of rules. In order to 
insure the quality of animal care at 
Yale, the Medical School decided to 
become accredited by the American 
Association for the Accreditation of 
Laboratory Animal Care (AAA-LAC). 

While AAA-LAC 
recognizes the 
minimum standards"set forth by the 
Animal. Welfare Act, it recommend s 
an even higher level of care. "N.I.H. 
would like to have all of its research 
done under these standards," says 
Barthold, explaining that AAA-LAC 
inspects the facility periodically. "They 
go over the institution with white 
gloves-literally," he says. "We get 
unannounced visits from the USDA, 
but since we have AAA-LAC ac-
creditation, we have very few prob-
lems." 

But cost is the greatest 
fact.or 
limiting the use of animals in research . 
For example, an 
u nconditioned


--- Page 29 ---

mongrel dog that once could be ob-
tained for $20 or $30 now costs $200 
because of increased regulation. "The 
effect has been that fewer animals are 
being used in research," says Barthold. 
This increased cost of animals has 
limited the total amount of research 
that is done. No longer can a lab afford 
to run ambitious projects. "Th e money 
is drying up," says Barthold. "There 
isn't the boom of research that there 
was in the 50's and 60's." 

Even the systems which veterinarians 
have developed to spare animals are 
based 
on 
a 
combination of 
humanitarian and economic 
prin-
ciples. "Animals are recycled to other 
investigators so 
that a 
minimum 
number of animals are used," explains 
Barthold. This system of animal pool-
ing is an informal arrangement. When 
a researcher needs to sacrifice an 
animal, he will inform his colleagues 
around the country. In turn, they may 
request the organs and vital parts that 
they need. In Pitt's lab, 
the few 
animals that are used in 
chronic 
studies each year are also used by other 
labs for bone marrow research. This 
arrangement saves the 
greatest 
number of animals and minimizes the 
costs at the same time. 

And the costs are considerable. A 
monkey costs a couple of hundred 
dollars, a lamb goes for $100, and a 
newborn lamb for $300. Even the mice 
can be expensive: some specialized 
strains, born by cesarean section, have 
breeding histories which extend back 
100 generations and will cost up to $10 
per mouse. One Yale researcher uses 
12,000 m ice every year. Each month 
the animals consume 15 tons of Purina 
animal chow. 

Animal housing and daily upkeep 
also contribute to the expense. One 
third of the animal costs in an average 
grant go toward the upkeep of the 
animals. It just doesn't make sense to 
keep more animals around than are 
absolutely necessary. 

The rats live in cubby-hole sized 
cages which look like steel and plex-
iglass skyscrapers- Co-op city for rats 
at four cents a day. The primates cost 
even more to house. Accessories oflux-
ury litter their cages-a squeaky rub-
ber duck, fuschia polyester fabric strips 
and assorted other· trinkets. High style 
at $2.50 a day. 

Despite the regulations and 
elaborate care facilities, Barthold still 
needs to be wary of the safety of the 
animals. "There is a varying degree of 
sensitivity to animal welfare," observes 
Barthold, "It is a problem anywhere 
and it is something that we keep our 
eyes and ears open for." 

On occasion, Barthold will identify a 
lab in which the animals are not being 
treated properly. "Usually it is because 
an investigator is too busy and has not 
been 
in 
direct contact with 
the 
animals," explains Barthold. Often a 
technician who is not familiar with the 
regulations will be doing the work for 
the researcher. In some cases, Barthold 
steps in himself, placing the animal 
directly under his care. "We step in and 
treat the animal however we feel it 
should be treated, and we charge the 
investigator for our services." The only 
difference between us an d the other 
medical departments is that our clients 
are animals and theirs are people," says 
Barthold. 

In 
more severe cases, 
Barthold would stop the research com-
pletely. At Yale, Barthold has never had 
to do this. The air is one of coopera-
tion. "I think that Yale has a pretty sen-
sitive group of investigators." 

Not everyone agrees with Barthold's 
assessment of the role of .a vet in a 
research lab. "If you're at a cocktail 
party," says Barthold, "people ask you 
what you do. And you say you are a 
veterinarian. Then they ask you where 
you practice, and you say at the Yale 
Medical School. They get turned off." 

For those who disagree with an imal 
!!Xperimentation, no amount of care 
for the animals makes the research any 
more palatable. But for the people at 
the school, the emotional side of the 
argument is suppressed. It has to be 
that way. "Even when you go through 
all the doors that say 'warning' and 
'danger,'" says one assistant researcher, 
"you get into a routine. It's not that dif-
ferent from working anywhere else." 

Laura Pappano, a senior in Ezra Stiles, zs 
an Associate Editor of TNJ. 


**Title: Sports**
**Author: Morris Panner**
**Page number(s): 30**

,. 



**Title: A Whole New Ballgame**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A Whole New Ballgame 
The Miami Dolphins were warming up for their afternoon pre-season 
practice. This Sunday number 33 was parked in his parents' kitchen in 
Hamden, sitting stiffly as if he couldn't quite shake the soreness from his 
last practice. A small window unit was blowing cold air. It was a humid 
day outside, not as bad as Dade County, but uncomfortable enough to 
keep the conversation inside. He wasn't sweating. His black hair was 
parted on the sid~. 
He was Yale's greatest football Jegend since Calvin Hill. Diana on the 
carry. 222 yards at Princeton. Touchdown Diana. Sports Illustrated. Two 
.touchdowns at Harvard. Diana on the carry. The Navy Game. M.V.P. 
All-American. Japan Bowl. Miami Dolphins, fifth round. 
At Bulldog Pizza even 
Spiro couldn't 
resist: The Rich Diana 
Soecial. 

'"There were a lot of things I didn't like 
about professional football," D iana 
said , "but I didn't quit just because I 
wasn't making a lot of great plays. It 
was frustrating. I carried the ball o nly 
once ir) pre-season. That isn't enough 
to show what you can do. I think I 
could have been an outstanding play-
er, but I never got the chance." 

Even his most devoted fans would 
say that Yale's second leading all-time 
rusher !:tad a mediocre first year in the 
N.F. L. He gained only 31 yards with a 
:long carry of seven, and this year wasn't 
looking any better. O n July 16th R ich 
D iana walked out of D on ShuJa's train-
ing camp in M iami and left pro-foot-
ball behind. He's returning to Yale and 
will begin training for a second career 
at the M edical School. 

D iana doesn't have any simple 
explanation for why he left. Since he


has been home this summer, he has 
been doing quite a lot of thinking and 
writing about his d<·dsion. Besides be-
ing interviewed by Howard Cosell and 
the Ntw York Timts, Diana has been 
workin~ on a book which will be pub-
lisht>d latf'r this year. In the book, 
D iana will try to explain to the world 
and to himself what pro football is real-
ly like. Being an author is probably the
"I could have been an out-
standing player, but I never 
got a chance." 

last thing Diana's MB&B advisor 
would have predicted for the 3.5 pre-
med. And even Diana doesn't enjoy 
writing. "But I've got something to of-
fer," he said. "It won't be a Ball Four. 
I'm not out to debase anyone, but I 
think it will surprise a few people. 

"' too was surprised by what pro 
football was like," Diana said, the 
flourescent coil flickering above him. 


"No ooe understands it until they ac-
tually play. It doesn't matter how many 
college games you've been in." When 
Diana showed up in Miami in the sum-
mer of 1982, he began playing a game 
which seemed to lack almost everything 
he had loved about football at Yale. 

"Carm [Cozza] and Seb [LaSpina, 
Yale's offensive coordinator] wanted 
you to learn and improve. They cared 
about you and wanted you to have 
everything-social 
life,. academics 
-everything. In Miami, the coaches 
didn't tolerate any mistakes. They 
would cuss at you and treat you like a 
thing. I think I'm an intelligent person, 
and the coaches never respected that." 

Taskmaster coaches weren't the only 
thing that made lif<' unpleasant for 
Diana. It was also the fact that he had 
to jump the cultural gap that separated 
football the game from football the 
business. When he left Ivy League 
lootball, Diana was better prepared for 
Yale Med than for the N.F.L. "I never 
felt that I could talk to my teammates. 
There was a certain intellectual curi-
osity that was missing. It was as if they 
came from a different culture. I know 
that sounds bad, but it shouldn't. I'm 
an everyday, ordinary person. I'm not 
an intellectual. My dad repairs TV's." 

The gap between Yale and pro foot-
ball by itself wasn't enough to drive 
Diana away. "It's time for me to start 
leading the kind of life that I want," 
Diana said. "A life in which you do 
things for responsibility's sake. I want 
to have small get-togethers with my 
family and friends, play racquetball 
and improve my golf game." Sitting at 
the table with his light-colored shirt 
neatly tucked into his white sports slacks, 
Diana could be filming a commercial 
for H oliday Country C lub. Ten easy 
steps to become a better family ma n. 

After a year in the pros, D iana re-
mains unfazed by last year's six figure 
income and the diversions such an in-
come allowed. "I've been taken around 
town in a limousine, been to fancy res-
taurants and had front row seats at a 
Broadway show," he said, tiredly re-
counting the list. "I just d idn't find it 
that exciting." Joe Namath would have 
calJed him a bore. 

"Sure the money was nice. I liked 
being able to buy some extra things 
and give some money to my family. 
But I've never had money in my whole 
life. There are more important things. 
My dad never made $20,000 in his life, 
and as a TV repairman I guess he 
never did much to change the world. 
But my parents are good people, and 
good people breed good people." T here 
is more than money, more than family 
pride behind Diana's ambition. He has 
a need to succeed simply because he 
always has. 

''There 1s only so much you can ac-
complish as a player," he said, looking 
out into the living room which doubles 
as a trophy room. "It's like being a n ac-
tor. Sure, I can see the value of enter-
tainment in sports. I enjoy watching 


**Title: [Untitled]**
**Author: [Moms Panner]**
**Page number(s): [34-35]**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"It's time for me to start leading the kind of life that I want." 
the Yankees when they are on television. I'll sit down and watch for an hour or two, but you have to do things which are more worthwhile, which give more to society. There's a great feeling when the crowd roars when you're on the field. I once said that there was no exhilaration that equalled carrying the football, and I still agree with that. But now I'm looking more for a psychological than a physical satisfaction. I'm ready to begin my vocation." 

This month the new training will begin, and the trade will be complete- the aqua Dolphin jersey for a lab coat. 

"Yeah, maybe it does sound funny. Maybe it sounds like I'm contradicting myself by giving up something I like so much. But sometimes you have to give up what you like to give more to society. I hope I get satisfaction out of medicine, but I know that it won't be the same. In medicine, there's no crowd cheering. The rest of the world won't care if you lose the use of your right wrist," he said as he moved his forearm across the table. For the first time in an hour, he's broken the conversation with a gesture. 

Returning to his unassuming pose, he has fixed his rolled sleeves. "I'll be happy if I can help a few people. I'm not out to change the world." But there is something deceptive about his modesty. You sort of feel like the linebacker who watches Diana scoot into the end zone after you've been told that Rich Diana just tries not to drop the ball. Diana isn't brash. He doesn't push people around. They make the mistake of giving him the extra step all on their own. 

"I'd be a fool to say I didn't have a lot of natural ability. Although I'm a lot smarter and faster than many people, there are plenty of people who are bigger and stronger than me," said Diana, who at a solid 215 pounds looks like he could intimidate the tractors on the farm near his home. "But no one ever saw how hard I had to work. I have a determination and a will to sacrifice which a lot of people don't have." This intensity made Diana as good a student as he was an athlete. Plenty of schools would have taken him if he could have spelled his name, but Diana did quite a bit more, graduating third in his Hamden High School class, a prime academic candidate for Yale. 

At Yale he graduated cum laude in MB&B, and he became something of a folk hero. Bulldog pizza still sells the Rich Diana Special, though it has come a long way from the original: Diana's favorite snack of a pepperoni pizza in a grinder roll. "I guess that was kind of disgusting," admitted Diana. 

It doesn't seem quite right that someone who did so much for Yale football is immortalized by a hoagie. The 1981-82 Ivy champs devastated Harvard, 28-0, and beat Navy on national television. For the first time in a decade, ABC and Sports Illustrated took the Bulldogs seriously. "We had a pretty special team my senior year," recalled Diana. "There were just a few of us who made the difference. I made a lot of money for Yale, but the administration never seemed to appreciate that. I feel a responsibility to a lot of things, but Yale isn't one of them. I used Yale, and they used me." 

Besides near record attendance at the Bowl, ABC televised two of Yale's games (Navy and Dartmouth) largely on the attraction of Diana, Rogan, Grieve, Rohrer and Leone. The television contracts alone netted Yale almost half a million dollars. Out of a total athletic department budget of only about $4 million, that wasn't bad. Yale's athletic policy did not make it easy for Diana to get into the pros.


**Title: Mind Over Music**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 37-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I 
Mind Over Music 
If you put an album on your turntable, 
turn on your stereo and then leave the 
room so that no one is there to hear it, 
does the music exist? This musical twist 
to the philosopher's paradox has been 
puzzling Mary Louise Serafine ever 
since she gave up her aspirations of 
musical stardom 12 years ago and went 
into the decidedly unromantic field of 
developmental psychology. But after 
four years of research at Yale, Serafine 
sounds less and less like either a musi-
cian or a psychologist and more like a 
Lord Berkeley who has learned to 
swing. "What counts with music is what 
is in the mind of the perceiver," she in-
sists. "If you don't understand the 
music, it doesn't exist for you." 
"If you don't 
understand the 
music, it doesn't 
exist for you." 
Serafine has pioneered an inter-
disciplinary approach to musical analysis 
that stresses the cognitive rather than 
the sensory skills of the listener. In other 
words, she beli.t:ves that people like a 
particular piece of music not because it 
conforms to some universal aesthetic, 
but because their minds simply tell 
them that it is good. In her research at 
Yale, she has di<;covered that under-
standing music is an active process 
rather than a passive one- that the 
mind doesn't just receive the notes but 
in fact organizes them into patterns that 
are unique to each individual. 

Serafine has recently completed a 
paper setting forth her new ideas which 
wiiJ be published early this faJJ in the 
psychology periodical Cognition. She 
has also accepted an offer from Colum-
bia University Press to publish a book 
at the end of the year which will be en-
titled Cognition in Music. 

But even more important than the 
details of her 
findings, 
Serafine's 
research points to an entirely new ap-
proach to music. Serafine believes that 
most people greatly underestimate their


**Title: Putting out a magazine requires more than just good articles.**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Putting out a magazine requires more than just good articles. 
Creative and dedicated people work behind the scenes, managing and producing each issue and planning for the future. 
The New Journal is looking for people willing to give their time and energy to writing, editing, business, photography and design.


**Title: Organizational Meeting**

ORGANIZATIONAL 
MEETING 
Wednesday, September 14 8pm 
Silliman Common Room


**Title: Stepchildren of the Revolution**
**Author: Katherine Scobey**
**Page number(s): 41**

Mao's Harvest: Voices from China's New 
Generation Edited by Helen F. Siu and 
Zelda Stern 
Oxford University Press. 1983 
In 1979 a political thaw in Communist 
China allowed the voices of protest to 
surface in the nation's tightly con-
trolled literature. An unprecedented 
literary form known as "New Realism" 
offered the first vivid picture of people 
in Red China- the feelings, emotions 
and attitudes of a culture so poorly 
understood in the West. 

By 1981 the Communist Party had re-
imposed controls. Dissent was stifled 
once again. 

The writings which have emerged 
from this brief period are remarkable 
not only for their candor and unequiv-
ocal protest, but also for the emotions 
and doubts which they express. The 
writers, most of them in their thirties, 
have boldly deviated from the unimpas-
sioned lip service to socialism and the 
Party that characterized earlier 
Chinese literature. With anger and 
sorrow they have decried the im-
poverishment·, oppression and corrup-
tion they see in their homeland. The 
young writers have responded to 
political and social situations with am-
bivalence, doubt and despair- emo-
tions that had never been acknowl-
edged 
in 
the Socialist 
Realisrn. 
literature which predominated during 
the decades immediately after Mao's 
rev0lution in 1949.


**Title: Mao's Harvest**
**Page number(s): 42**

The title of Helen Siu and Zelda 
Stern's new anthology of writings from 
those three years of protest echoes in 
bitter irony. The collection is called 
Mao's Harvest, for the works are the 
fruit of the first generation to grow up 
in Mao's socialist China. But it is also 
called Mao's Harvest because it reveals a 
young generation cut off at its prime 
by the political system that fostered it. 

The body of writings that Siu and 
Stern have collected in this volume 
mark only a first step in the under-
standing of China's new generation. A 
professor of anthropology, Siu is one of 
just a handful of scholars working on 
this material. Because so little is known 
of this literature in the West, her an-
thology will prove indispensible to 
future scholars in Chinese literature 
and history. 

Whc;n it first emerged in 1979, New 
Realism 
was 
immediately popular 
among China's 
urban 
youth. 
"It 
became the common vocabulary of the 
young," said Melissa Ennen, a Yale 
graduate student who was living in 
China during the years the literature 
was first being published. "By opening 
up discussion, China's social problems 
became clear and acute.,· 

New Realism is, in part, an exten-
sion of the protest against the Cultural 
Revolution. 
Through it, 
China's 
young writers 
have 
rejected 
the 
socialist credos which were ingrained 
at every step of their carefully pro-
. grammed education. "These writers 
came of age during the Cultural 
Revolution," Siu said. "The new focus 
on emotion affirmed the validity of the 
inner self. This is a highly unorthodox 
notion in the MaoistJiterary tradition 
in which such expression would have 
been considered a threat to the collec-
tive spirit of socialist China." 

One cannot 
understand Chinese 
literature of the seventies without 
understanding something about the 
Cultural Revolution of a 
decade 
earlier. Initiated by Mao in 1966 to 
root out corruption in the Party. the 
Cultural Revolution rapidly escalated 


HOW SWEET IT IS . .. 
ICE CREAM I SANDWICH SHOP 
Treat yourself to lunch, dinner or your 
favorite dessert -
anytime. 
Enjoy the charm of a modem-day 
old fashiond ice crrom parlor 
jMturing an antique julubox 
with 50'$ and 60's cuts. 
open II a.m. - II p.m. Sunday to Thursday 
Friday & Saturday to 12 
883 Whalley Avenue 
Westville Center 383-3115 
crept _sandwiches •. quiche_ • salad • co/umbo frozen yogurt • italian ice • shnbet • cheesecake • ice cream cake 


NEW HAVEN NEIGHBORHOOD FESTIVALS 
CJ:hirdcu1hnual 
;;([pplec;Jestival 
n. ..,.,..dzlng ._... .. tMiu,.. 
-----
--· 8ovot>O ... -
-· 
_ 
................... pot __ 
-.~t.g-
ftoww .w:t llhOw end rtffte. The 
~SI 
.. St ___ 
IOiho 
....-.t wtth thtlr own....,.... 
.......... 
-by---
--15eH384. 
by'UI'ff __ 
.,._ 
_....._._toll<oly 
-
.... ...,._ .... olghlo .... 
ol ... lfiOdal ....... -· 
__ .,_ __ 
.... __ _....._ 
a.tunt.v, 0cto11er 1 
10-··pm 
WMivtlle VII .... 
__, .. doy • 
1Nocnod¥o~-· -bylho--
-lholmoglnollonottnlo ..... - - - -· 
---"ly.You'N ... _ 
38H182. 


MEXICAN FOOD 
VOTED BEST MEXICAN FOOD 
in New Haven County 
by Connecticut Magazine's 
1983 Readers Poll 
OPEN EVERY DAY 
161 PARK ST. New Haven 562-2499 
6 DICKERMAN ST. Hamden 288-3784 
MASTERCHARGE, VISA, DINERS, CARTE BLANCHE



**China's Youth and the Cultural Revolution**
**Author: Katherine Scobey**
**Page number(s): 43-45**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
into a confused, bloody fray in which 
Chinese adolescents were the major 
participants. Mao closed schools and 
directed the youth in full-time strug-
gles to rid the country of "pernicious 
bourgeois influences" among the Party 
ranks, their teachers, their parents 
and their fellows. It was the youths 
themselves who subjected these 
"enemies" of the Party to the physically 
abusive indoctrination sessions of the 
R evolution. They vilified, imprisoned 
and 
killed; 
they vandalized and 
destroyed museums and te_mples, in-
deed, any relic of old ideas. "Bourgeois" 
educational customs such as examina-
tions and reports were abolished. The 
provincial schools were closed for three 
to six years. Students who did go to 
school received a m inimal background 
in the basics and spent much of their 
time in the fields or factories. Tradi-
tional education was superseded by 
daily recitations of the quotes of Chair-
man Mao. 

Literature suffered greatly under 
M ao. The only stories and poems 
deemed acceptable were those that told 
of class struggle and the revolution. No 
characters were allowed to exist in 
moral shades of gray. They had to be 
Iabelle~ clearly "good" or "bad" accor-
ding "to class background and loyalty to 
the Party. 

One lesson that China's youth 
learned during the Cultural Revolu-
tion was to criticize the Party. It was a 
lesson they did not forget. By the mid-
seven ties, the youth collectively began 
to 
realize 
that 
they 
had 
been 
manipulated in what amounted to a 
power struggle 
between 
top-level 
politicians. 

On April 5, 
1976, thousands of 
Chinese gathered at Peking's Gate of 
Heavenly Peace in memory of the 
• recently deceased Zhou en-Lai. 
Gradually, the tension and grief within 
the congregation erupted into an emo-
tional explosion. In front of the Gate, 
the people began spontaneously to 
write. They wrote on scraps of parch-
ment, on the walls and d irectly on the 
pavement in every poetic form im-
aginable. Such a mass outpouring of 
feeling had not been known since the 
start of the Revolution. This daring act 
proved to be an irrevocable step 
toward a 
literature free from the 
Party's categorical restraints of the 
past. 

New 
Realism 
literature, 
which 
developed in the years after this inci-
dent, has become "mu ch more subtle," 
according to Yale History Professor 
J onathan Spence, who wrote the for-
ward to the book. "People have come 
that you 
can't 
blame 
everything on the Cultural Revolu-
tion." "This literature, which was in-
itially sanctioned by the Party, allowed 
the Chinese to derive hope from 
tragedy," said Ennen. "They could 
point out foibles and move on." 

Though literary modes and styles in 
Chin~se literature cc.:fr\stantly changed, 
all of the literature subsequent to the 
Cultural R evolution has maintained 
certain common traits. Written by a 
generation whose truths became lies 
and whose rights became wrongs, the 
literature following the Cultural 
Revolution has conveyed the nation's 
mourning of an era. 

In the midst of such moral and emo-
tional dilemmas, China's youth has 
produced a literature in which suicide 
is a recurring theme. Between 1976 
and the present, the subject matter has 
always proved powerful and emotional 
regardless of genre or style. In fact,


**Title: Aft ert ho ug ht**
**Author: W. Ham ~ton Si d_e_s_**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Blinded With Science 
Why the Poets are in the Dark 
"If a democracy is going to work, it means that we've got to have 
an educational system so that a person can at least understand the 
issues, never mind the details. It's up to the members of the public 
to ask the questions and demand answers from the people who are 
supposed to know what the details are. " 
· 
D. Allan Bromley 
The New journal, October 1982 

A few years ago, about this time of year, I sat down with a 
blue book in my hand and tried to figure out how I was go-
ing to spend my semester. One of the considerations that 
swung rather like a pendulum over my head was that, 
because of Yale's distribution requirements, I had to pick a 
course in the sciences, a Group IV. 

Planck's Constant. Avogadro's Number. Gregor Mendel 
and his 100 yellow-green pea plants. I knew I couldn't 
return to the nightmares of high school physics, chemistry 
and biology. But I was reasonably sure that I could enjoy 
science if only it were taught a little differently. I had a 
vague idea that there was more to science than memorizing 
and forgetting certain formulas arrived at centuries ago by 
thoughtful men in their bathtubs. I suspected that what I 
had forced myself to swallow in high school was not science 
at all, but rather a series of unsavory textbook exercises 
calculated to make undecided students, like myself, shy 
away from science altogether. 

It was decided long ago that teachers must present 
science in such a way as to discourage the average student 
from perceiving its relevance to his or her life. And so, in-
stead of reading about the possibilities for organ transplants 
or solar power, we learned about Planck's Constant and the 
displacement that a 200g mass of a certain density makes in 
a glass of water on the moon. Instead of studying the im-
plications of genetic research, we learned how to calculate 
the velocity of an apple dropped from the top of a tree. We 
knew E = mc2 but we weren't sure how that translated into 
Hiroshima. We learned about lipids and lysosomes, but we 
didn't learn about how a small slice of silicon is in the midst 
of building a new society. 

At any rate, there I was with the blue book, and I had to 
decide. I had an option, though. I could pick one of the 
"poet" courses in the sciences, like "Rocks for Jocks," or 
"Earth, Wind and Fire" or "Space, Time and Motion." 
These are the dozen or so courses in biology, astronomy, 
geology, 
physics and engineering that are tailored 
specifically for the humanities major. These are the gee-
whiz stalagmite guts, the ones that people who dread 
science resort to when the gig is up and their time has come 
to take a Group IV. 

There is something inherently condescending about the 
notion of a non-science science course. For a long time I 
think there has been an assumption among science instruc-
tors that their courses must possess a certain air of inac-
cessibility in order to sound legitimate. A history major 
can't just expect to sit down in a classroom and learn 
something about modern science. That is not fair. First, he 
46 The New JournaVSeptember 9, 1983 
has to memorize the Periodic Table and learn to convert 
Celsius to Kelvin with requisite facility. 

Such is the rationale behind the science course for poets. 
It is a watered-down way for the history major to get his 
science and get on with his liberal education with as little 
embarrassment as possible. So three times a week a pro-
fessor comes down from the Hill and walks into Linsley-
Chit with colored chalk and a slideshow, and proceeds to 
teach non-scientific science for an hour. The blue book 
should have read: "This course is not really science, but it's 
the next best thing to being there for those of you who don't 
care to learn, or simply can't learn, what science is really 
about." 

I don't blame anyone but myself for taking one of these 
classes. Still, I think there is something wrong with the way 
science is being taught to "non-science" people. One can 
either take an inordinately difficult course in general 
chemistry or a ridiculously easy course in Comparative 
Health Systems. There needs to be a happy medium. I 
don't see these inadequacies as part of some academic con-
spiracy, but rather as a colqssal oversight on the part of the 
Yale administration. In a world in which science and 
technology are making vast and irreversible changes in 
...., 
society, people who don't intend to spend four years in a 
laboratory must get a handle on what is happening outside. 

There are a number of reasons why there is no happy 
medium in Yale's science courses: the conflict between 
scientific research and teaching, the relative infancy of 
science in academia, the temptation among academic scien-
tists to seek lucrative positions in government and business. 
But for whatever reason, I don't think there has been a 
tremendous amount of effort on the part of the scientific 
community to synthesize and present what has been learn-
ed. And the people who have done this, people like Carl 
Sagan and Stephen Jay Gould, have often been ostracized 
by their colleagues as panderers to the public. 

It is critical to recognize that non-science majors have . 
governed science in the past and probably will continue to 
do so in the future. They are the ones who have traditional-
ly made policy decisions in the United States. Harry 
Truman chose to drop the Bomb, not J. Robert Op-
penheimer. Some high-level bureaucrar-in the Pentagon 
approved the use of Agent Orange in Vietnam, not the 
biologist who created it. 

What happens, then, when our non-science major finds 
himself on the Senate floor debating an appropriations bill 
for a $2 billion particle accelerator in Texas and he doesn't 
understand the first thing about what goes on inside it? 
What happens when the governor of Nebraska has to 
dispose of 2 tons of toxic waste and he's got a dozen experts 
and a dozen different opinions? 

Planck's Constant and Avogadro's Number don't mean 
so much anymore. 
• 
W Hampton Sides, a senior in Ezra Stiles, is Editor-in-Chief of 
TN].



Why Newark? 
Because Newark International Airport may be 
the best kept secret in air travel today. Newark is 
the smart alternative, where you can take advan-
tage of the Northeast's most modern airport and 
the popular new discount carriers. 

WhyNewAir? 
Because NewAir now offers conveniently 
scheduled flights to Newark from both New Haven 
and New London 

NewAir to Newark . .. Only New Air gets you there by Air. 
Airline connection 
In New Haven 469-2313 • In connecticut 1-800-922-6428 
outside connecticut 1-800-243-6570 or your travel agent.


The Co-op Book Department Helps You 
FIND THE BOOK YOU NEED 
With these Special Customer Services: 
7 DAY SEARCH SERVICE 
Many popular general titles that are not in 
stock can be obtained in 7 to 10 days or less. 
No fees or charges. Ask at the Book 
Information desk 

SPECIAL ORDERS 
Direct to the publisher for books otherwise 
unobtainable. Allow 3-6 weeks; prepayment. 
required; postage charge added. Ask at the 
Special Order Desk. 

OUT-OF-PRINT SEARCH SERVICE 
If a copy is located, the price is quoted 
first-there is no obligation to buy. Ask at 
Book Information or the Special Order Desk. 

FOREIGN BOOKS 
For titles in French, German, and Spanish 
that are not in stock, ask at the Europa Desk. 

MAILING & GIFT WRAPPING 
Shipment by UPS or parcel post. Ask at the 
Service Desk. 
:J 
