Publication date: 04/97
Volume 29, Issue 5

**Exceptional Dresses for Graduation Formals Recitals Performance Dinner, Dance, Parties ...**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
4 
Exceptional 
Dresses 
for 
Graduation 
Formals 
Recitals 
Performance 
Dinner, Dance, 
Parties ... 
Showcased in a unique 
luxurious shopping 
environment 
with cordial 
expert service. 
Seychelles 
1020 Chapel Street 
New Haven 
498-2626 
OPEN EVERYDAY!


**Degrees of Change**
**Author: The Editors**

"\VJhen the voices of the Yale establish-
W ment, like professors Gaddis Smith 
(PC '54, GRD '61) and H. Bradford Wester-
field (TD '47), and the spokespeople for the 
Graduate Employee Student Organization 
(GESO), find themselves in complete 
agreement about the future 
of the university, some-
thing strange is going on. 
But there they were last 
month on the front pages 
of student newspapers, letting 
the campus know their views 
on the Kutzinski Report, a pro-
posal generated by a faculty com-
mittee co change how the teaching 
assistant program runs at Yale. And to the 
surprise of many, their opinions came out 
sounding identical. 
"There's absolutely no justification for 
this sort of complete overhaul of the system," 
Antony Dugdale (GRD '99), a co-chair of 
GESO, told the Herald even before the 
report was officially released. 
"I'm very, very opposed to this proposal. 
It simply will do away with most section 
teaching and turn cla.sses into straight lecture 
courses," Professor Westerfield fumed to the 
Yale Daily News. 
The Kutzinski Report, written by a com-
mittee chaired by Vera Kutzinski, professor 
of English, makes the point that GESO and 
others have made for years: the teaching fel-
lowship program does not work in its pre-
sent form. The Kutzinski Report contains 
few concrete proposals, but instead offers 
three valuable principles for the complete 
restructuring of the teaching assistant pro-
gram: first, the financial aid that graduate 
students receive should be separated from 
teaching duties; second, no graduate student 
should teach more than four sections while 
they are at Yale; and third, university depart-
ments should not depend on graduate stu-
dents to fill their staffing needs. 
Under the current system, the fact is that 
departments t/Q depend on graduate students 
to meet their teaching staff needs. And grad-
uate students in need of financial assistance 
have little choice but to take on additional 
sections-usually far more chan the Kutzins-
ki Report recommends. To satisfy the objec-
tives of the report, the university's current 
system requires drastic change, or in the 
words of the report itself, "overhauling the 
entire Teacher Fellowship system 
in the Graduate School." 
Sure politics makes for 
strange 
bedfellows, 
but 
GESO may be shooting 
itself in the foot by 
cozying 
up 
with 
quintessential 
Old 
Blue figures. It is 
understandable that 
professors such as Smith 
and Westerfield are opposed co the 
plan. They are, after all, the guardians of the 
university's 
pedagogical 
traditions. 
But 
GESO's cry for moderation runs counter to 
its stated objective: to change the face of the 
Academy. Is GESO taking a posicion as a 
matter of political expediency instead of 
honest principle? Is GESO just trying to save 
its skin? 
They seem to suspect that the universi-
ty's recent willingness to restructure is a cal-
culated response to the upcoming National 
Labor Relations Board suit filed against Yale 
for its actions during GESO's grade suike 
last year. No doubt, the prospect of the fed-
eral government ordering Yale to permit its 
teaching assistants to unionize has made the 
administration much more willing to consid-
er change. But determined to win the argu-
ment that graduate students should be con-
sidered employees when they act as teaching 
assistants, GESO has ignored the fundmen-
tal question which is whether graduate stu-
dents should be employees in the first place. 
It has blinded them to the fact that the 
Kutzinski Report could provide an opportu-
nity to modify the current system for the 
benefit of all concerned. GESO, and anyone 
else interested in restructuring the university, 
will lose this chance for change if it contin-
ues to bluster about the need to moderate 
reform. 
-The Editors 
THE NEW JouRNAL