Publication date: February 2004
Volume: 36
Issue number: 3


**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Michad Allison
- Editor-in-Chief: Klllhryn MAliri4
- Managing Editors: ]-' B/echn; Clinton CtlrrDU
- Designer: Jessica Chtm:
- Photography Editor: Pai~ Alltinson
- Associate Editors: FuJTa Lichtman, Pai~ Austin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Scanners - David Zax
- After the Gold rush - Flora Lichtman
- Strangers Among Us - Paige Austin
- The Road Less Traveled - Romy Drucker
- Editon' Note
- Points of Departure
- Shots in the Dade Kids in the Mall - Alexandra Bevan
- Essay: Dancer in the Dark - Emily Coatts
- The Critical Angle: East, West - Rachel Khong
- Endnote: Swing Set - Sarah Laskow


**Title: Scanners**
**Author: David Zax**
**Page number(s): 9**


A Yale School of Medicine program revolutionizes the art of diagnosis.


**Title: After the Gold rush**
**Author: Flora Lichtman**
**Page number(s): 14**


Who stands to lose when a New Haven bank goes public.


**Title: Strangers Among Us**
**Author: Paige Austin**
**Page number(s): 20**


The Yale Police Department wrestles with allegations of racial profiling.


**Title: The Road Less Traveled**
**Author: Romy Drucker**
**Page number(s): 26**


Helping the mentally ill survive a biased justice system.


**Title:  [Untitled]**
**Author: The Editors**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In the post-September 11 era, the kinds of stories we tend to 
herald as good news so often s~em cursory treatments of the 
same, tired topics: victory abroad, stability at home, the growth of 
the economy, the absence of upartisan bickering" from the halls of 
Congress. They are not so much news as a rehashing of what has 
already come to pass. 

This issue of The New journal attempts· to take an unconven-
tional approach to journalism. Our writers have sought out stories 
still very much unresolved and uncertain: The potential boycott of 
a city's last community-owned bank, racial profiling in the Yale 
Police Department, the plight of the mentally ill in the American 
justice system. The aim of these articles has been not simply to 
uncover aspects of society typically ignored, but to cast fresh, criti-
cal light on so-called "old news." They raise questions not so 
much with the goal of providing answers, but of catalyzing debate 
and challenging entrenched assumptions. 

None of this is to say that news cannot be optimistic. As these 
pages have tried to show, we believe the lenses of struggle and 
conflict reveal the potential for a future far more inspiring than an 
easy contentment with the status quo. 
-The Editors 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


**Title: Hide and Seek**
**Author: Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

I SWING OPEN THE HEAVY 
DOOR to 
Bingham's eighth floor library and find 
myself in a pitch dark room. A boy in thick 
glasses emerges, his eyes squinting at the 
sudden break of light. "What are you doing 
here?" he demands, pulling back his black 
hood. The boy looks at me as if I am an 
intruder and explains that he is about to 
hold a secret meeting. If I want to stay, I 
wiU have to hide. I squirm behind a 
mahogany shelf that sags under the weight 
of neglected antique books. Suddenly, the 
lights flicker on and, through a crack in the 
woodwork, I see a somber procession of 
students. They grab chairs and plop into 
leather couches, all the while murmuring 
in hushed voices. They stare expectandy at 
a boy in a snappy suit. He clears his throat 
and surveys the room. 
"Welcome, • he booms, "to the first 
meeting of the Yale Society for the 
Exploration of Campus Secrets, or YSECS." 
He introduces himself co the expectant 
recruits as James•, the club's CEO or Chief 
Exploration Officer, and goes on co present 
the YSECS elite with a sweep of his arm: the 
cheery girl to his right is his Chief 
Investigative Accomplice; at her side sits 
the Chief Information Officer; last comes 
the obligatory Foreign Minister, an enthu-
siastic southerner named Jed. • 
YSECS, which James founded in 
October of 2.003, is a club seemingly like 
any other, dean-approved and registered 
with 
the 
Undergraduate 
Funding 
Committee. In acruality, the society is a 
highly organiud coalition of"elite Campus 
Explorers," who embark on expeditions in 
groups of two to four seeking to uncover 
the secrets of Yale's labyrinthine campus. 
The society convenes bi-weekly at the 
group's home base, a "temple• discovered 
FEBRUARY 2.004 
by the group just weeks after the meeting I 
witnessed. It is here that YSECS houses its 
"tome," a book which contains a chrono-
logical .record of their findings, complete 
with digital photographs and explanations 
of how to reach each "secret" location. 
Access to this vast wealth of knowledge is 
by far the greatest perk to being a society 
member. Of course, membership is restrict-
ed. Every inductee must be approved by 
the board and, most importandy, by the 
CEO--which basically means that James 
gets co decide who is in and who is out. 
Once he bestows his approval, the inductee 
must then "go through a brief rirual., of 
being "blindfolded and led co a secret loca-
tion." 
In addition to their temple, YSECS has 
discovered recessing bookshelves, over-
looked alcoves, hidden chapels, and covert 
passageways. Explorations have yielded 
both a crawl space in the $illiman base-
ment that accesses almost every entry way 
and a secret staircase in the green room of 
Sterling that leads to an alcove. A curious 
librarian abetted the discovery of the stair-
case, while the Silliman Tunnel was discov-
ered through shadier methods. An ex-
member describes the route: "In the base-
ment of Silliman, if you go past the high 
voltage door there's this wall that's way 
older than the rest of Silliman, and then 
there's this door." Members do not seem 
put off by such strange modes of entry. For 
example, to enter the Bingham library that 
first night, the boy in glasses had inge-
niously duct-taped a condom to the door-
frame to keep ic from locking. Although 
James officially denies it, ex-members claim 
that the club was once interested in lock-
picking. Jed, now the former foreign min-
ister, reports that the club once discussed 
buying 
a 
fifty 
dollar "lock-picking 
machine." The board, according to Jed, 
even wenc so far as to post pictures of cam-
pus doors whose locks they encouraged 
their members to pick. Jack*, another ex-
member, says morale has falJen since he 
left. He was the only one who could pick 
locks. Whenever they needed to be some-
where they shouldn't be, they would ask 
him. According to Jack, the members 
ignored their own official policy to follow 
Yale's regulations. "If we needed to get in 
there, we'd get in. Just don't get caught, 
they said.· 

While the prospect of lock-picking 
and duet-taping may deter some freshmen 


from joining, YSECS members should rest 
assured that the society is nothing if not 
prepared. Induction night isn't the only 
prerequisite to membership; inductees 
must also sign a release of liability waiver. 
The club is overwhelmingly bureaucratic, 
and most of the dropouts were disappoint-
ed with the business-savvy formality of a 
club they felt should have focused on the 
thrill of exploring. But James does not 
seem put off by the steep dropout rate; he 
says it has allowed a "solid core" to emerge. 
Jack, eschewing this core, dropped out 
because "it was really boring," while Jed, 
the smiley former Foreign Minister, with-
drew because of "board meetings that were 
an hour and a half every week, where we 
just talked about different places to explore 
without going out and exploring." It turns 
out that James' self-appointed title of Chief 
Exploration Officer is more literal than one 
might think. During that first meeting, 
while his cohorts remained seated, James 
appeared to be acting out some business 
school fantasy. Brian,* a bitter Bingham 
resident, describes James as a fascist 
bureaucrat: "I see [the group] line up single 
file outside Bingham, wearing black. 
Uames] yells at them all the time to get 
straighter, to get in a straighter line. And 
they're all wearing all black and he's carry-
ing a briefcase." 

Ex-members reduce the group to sim-
ply the "secret society for freshmen," a mix-
ture of Harry Potter, Hardy Boys, and Star 
Wars paranoia. (The group's website 
www.yale.edu/ysecs 
bears 
the phrase 
"Explore, Padawan. ") When I asked James 
why he loves exploring, he answered, "I am 
constantly 
amazed 
by 
cool 
factor ... There's a satisfaction to finding 
something cool." 

Though YSECS may be struggling to 
hold on to its members, it has managed to 
captivate more onlookers than it has 
inductees. At the same time that James is 
revealing secrets, he is constructing his 
own. As much as he decries the exclusivity 
at Yale, his project is its greatest embodi-
ment. The rest of us may not want to sit 
through tedious board meetings, but we're


not above hankering after the website pass-
word or the secret tome, if only to assure 
ourselves that we're not missing anything. 
-Adriane Quinlan 
*all names have been changed 


**Title: Un-Sweet Sensation**
**Author: [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 6**

You MAY HAVE SEEN IT at Durfee's: the bot-
tle with the block-lettered "T" wirhin 
which hides a symbol, design, or character. 
The more saccharine varieties showcase 
labels that read "A Tad Sweer." Turn the 
bottle, and on the back of the label, you 
will find a caffeine comparison to coffee. 
Where you might exp~ct 
to find an ingredients list, 
there is instead a para-
graph describing the tea's 
complex brewing process 
and the source of its rare 
leaves. You might read 
about chamomile tea leaves, &om a 
Guatemalan farming co-operative 
or Haarlem Honeybrush leaves 
&om a subsistence farming com-
munity in South A&ica. Above the 
nutritional facts is a postscript, 
which varies according to the kind 
of tea. For example, if you happen 
across "First Nation Peppermint," 
a bottle with a picture of Medicine 
Crow within the "T," the postscript 
will describe him as an Indian chief 
&om the late 19th century and go on to 
praise peppermint's healing properties. 
And, in keeping with their honest image, 
the company donates a portion of the sales 
to the Crow Community. 

Honest Tea is more than a slightly 
sweetened drink. Not only is it the first Fair 
Trade bottled tea, it represents an "innova-
tive approach to ensuring integrity in the 
global market." Its creators, Seth Goldman 
(soM '95) and Barry Nalebuff, Professor at 
Yale School of Management, built Honest 
Tea with a strong awareness of both the 
treatment of its employees and the com-
munities it affects. They seek honesty in all 
aspects of their business. All the tea is 
organic, and the company strives to assist 
economically troubled communities, often 
at the expense of the almighty dollar. 

But Honest Tea was not started to save 
the world: Rather, Nalebuff founded the 
organization in part to satiate his own 
picky palate. According to Nalebuff, a 
major flaw in the beverage industry is that 
while it offers a wide variety of flavors, it 
provides almost no variation in sweetness. 
A little sugar can vastly improve the taste of 
a drink, but too much sugar or artificial 
sweetener can ruin it. "It's like salt," 
Nalebuff says. ''A little salt is great. A little 
more is okay. [Add] too much, and the 
food becomes inedible." 
account. 
Nalebuff 
first 
mentioned this dissatis-
faction with the bever-
age industry nine years 
ago, during a SOM class 
discussion on a Coke 
versus Pepsi case study. 
He soon realized he was not 
alone in his frustration. One stu-
dent, Seth Goldman, whole-
heartedly agreed. Three years 
later, the rwo founded Honest 
Tea, which has grown into a 
nationwide business phenome-
non that sold approximately 10 
million bottles of tea in 2003 for 
a net profit of $5.5 million. Nor 
too bad for a company that tries 
to put the world before its bank 

In fact, during that first discussion, 
neither knew any more about tea than the 
Average Joe, and for the time: being their 
frustration stayed in the classroom. After 



**The Honest Tea Story**
**Author: Lane Rick**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
graduation, Goldman got a job in
Bethesda, Maryland, and Nalebuff contin-
ued to teach business students. The conver-
sation about un-sweetened beverages
seemed fleeting and forgotten until
Goldman
called
Nalebuff in 1997 with a
proposal for Honest
Tea, an organic, natural-
ly sweetened tea that is
not
too
sweet.
Conveniently, Nalebuff
had just returned from a
research trip jn India, where he
had been studying the tea indus-
try. Nalebuff liked the idea, and
the following year, the duo started
Honest Tea in Bethesda. Once
Honest Tea got on its feet,
Goldman and Nalebuff began
using Fair Trade tea leaves and
collaborating with small tea grow-
ers around the world.
In India, Nalebuff drank a lot
of very good tea, and realized the
tea Americans drink is very bad. American
tea companies purchase cheap, low-quality
dust and fannings
what is left over after
the quality tea has been produced.
Furthermore,
most
Americans,
in
Nalebuff's opinion, don't even know what
good tea tastes like.

Honest Tea, on the other hand, is the
good stuff, made only with whole leaf tea. -
His drink, Nalebuff explains, is as sophisti-
cated as wine. "Wine tasters can drink
white wine, red wine, or pink wine," he
explains. Then there are choices between
Merlot, Pinot Noir, and other varieties of
wine that depend on the kind of grape in
the vineyard. Wine changes from year to
year, from locale to locale, and from season
to season. Tea is no different. It has an
equally broad spectrum, with a range of
choices from green to black, from oolong
to brick, from white to scented. Within
each of the major classifications, a number
of factors distinguish tastes: the type of leaf,
the season or "flush" in which the tea is
picked, the temperature of water in which
the tea is steeped, and even the source of
FEBRUARY 2004


Despite his trip to India, and ·his
impeccable taste, Nalebuff insists that he
does not enjoy tea any more than the next
beverage drinker. Honest Tea simply com-
plements his daily activi-
ties. Nalebuff has taped
a
large
Honest Tea
poster
onto
the
crammed bookshelf in
his office. The closet is
full of Honest Tea bot-
tles of all flavors, and the
small fridge is packed with more
bottles. Next to the fridge is a
large cardboard display stand for
Honest. Tea bags. Nalebuff only
spent one chapter on Honest Tea
in his recently published book
Why Not?. He usually discusses his
company in one lecture of each
semester-long class, but otherwise
does not announce his involve-
ment with Honest Tea to his stu-
dents.

Nalebuff and Goldman have happily
settled into their place as tea manufactur-
ers. The trick, Nalebuff stresses, is knowing
what you can and cannot do. Retail is not
for these two; they manufacture and sell tea
wholesale, but they have no interest in
becoming the Starbucks of good tea.
·Nalebuff knows that not all good ideas
are good businesses. Honest Tea just hap-
pened to work. And as Nalebuff bluntly
puts it, "Honest Tea just tastes good."


-Lane Rick


**Model Imam**
**Author: Concha Mendoza**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EVERY · FRIDAY, before the sun rises,
Dawood Ya-Sin leads one of the five
required daily prayers for 250 Muslims at
Masjid Al-ls]am, a mosque on George
Street. Aside from the prayer itself, he
delivers a message which addresses current
events and an individual's obligation in
today's complex world. He then recites the
Koran aloud while his congregants listen in
bowed meditation.
In post 9-11 America, the word "Islam"
has become linked with "terrorism." Ya-Sin
believes this may be in part due to the
media, which promotes the view that
although "nor every terrorist is a Muslim,
every Muslim is a terrorist or a potential
one." Ya-Sin challenges this stereotype.
When he's not fulfilling his duties as imam
of the George Street mosque, he is a teach-
ing assistant for Yale's first-year Arabic
class, an Islamic chaplain at Yale-New
Haven Hospital and advisor to the Muslim
Students Association. He also runs an
online Muslim clothing store.
Thirteen years ago, a modeling agent
discovered
Ya-Sin
m
Nantucket,
Massachusetts and urged him co attend a
model search in New York City. His port-
folio consisted of two Polaroids taken at the
agency. He was competing with a pool of
professional actors and models, but still he
managed
to
land a
contract with
Wilhelmina Models, one of the largest
model management companies in the busi-
ness. At the time, he says, it was abnormal
to see an African American in a fashion
advertisement. "When I came to New
York, it wasn't like how we see it now," he
recalled. "I didn't let social barriers or racial
barriers or whatever hold me back."
During his five years on the modeling cir-
cuit, Ya-Sin learned to embrace different
cultures, which he says is difficult for most
Americans when they first encounter Islam.
During his five-year modeling career,
Ya-Sin traveled to large cities and answered
questions for teeny-bopper magazines like,
"What's your idea of a perfect date?" "It
was great," he recalls. "You could Ay to the
Bahamas for three days and be paid great
money to work our for an hour at the gym
and shoot a couple of hours." But soon, he
began to grapple with some of his own
questions, questions whose answers would
never appear in the pages of a teen maga-
zine: "Where is the underlying spirituality
in my life?" "What is there after twenty
photo shoots?" Ya-Sin decided to leave his
modeling career as quickly as he had
8
entered it. While in South Africa, Ya-Sin
began practicing Islam, in hopes of filling a
void in his life.
It was the simplicity and modesty of
Islam that first piqued Ya-Sin's interest.
"God is God and everything else is creation
underneath it. There is no intermediary
between you and your Creator," he said.
During his conversion, Ya-Sin found it dif-
ficult to pray five times daily and simulta-
neously satisfy the demands of modeling.
"We were doing a commercial in South
Africa and this one cake we did like fifty
times and the time was coming that I had
ro pray and [prayer] cakes precedence over
that," he said. "The makeup artist is upset;
the lighting person is upset at you. There
was all of that going on and I was like, you
know what? It's not worth it." So in 1996,
after five years in the business, Ya-Sin trad-
ed in his beauty entourage, designer cloth-
ing, and half-fare plane tickets, to come
home, and join a mosque in Providence,
Rhode Island. The following year he made
a hajj, or pilgrimage, with a group from
this mosque. Upon their return, the group
offered to sponsor his study of Arabic and
Islamic sciences for eight years· in Syria.
Keeping to his "if I like something I'll do
it" attitude, he decided ro go.
While in Syria, Ya-Sin studied lan-
guage and theology for as many as 16 hours
a day. At the school where he studied, he
also met his wife, a fellow Muslim
American, who was also earning her degree
in the Islamic Sciences. Dawood's studies,
though, were cut short by the terrorist
attacks on September n, 2001. Although he
had completed only four and a half years of
study, his family asked that he return back
to the States. But the transition back to
American life was not easy. Towing his
stack of Modern Arabic textbooks and with
a cell phone earpiece dangling from his ear
as he works out clothing orders, he does
not let the differences slow him down. Yet
he is aware of the stereotypes nor only from
newspaper headlines but also from his daily
experiences. He has been the target of
obscene gestures and shouts of, "Go back
to your country." These are ironic words
for Ya-Sin, who has returned to his country
only to find that the discrimination he
once encountered because of his skin color
is now based on his wardrobe.
With his traditional kufi cap and
beard, Ya-Sin often feels that he looks mys-
terious and even dangerous to stereotyping
Americans. He realius his students may
also be influenced by his appearance, so he
often tells the story of his modeling career,
world travels and conversion to Islam.
"Sometimes I feel char, you know, you kind
of walk in with a beard, with your head
covered and you're only in [class] couple of
days a week. You're kind of a shady figure,"
he says. Meshing his two primary occupa-
tions, he has worked to change the image
of an unapproachable Western Muslim-
"shady figure" -to a respected and revered
religious one. In 2001, he, his wife, and five
others opened an online marker called
Shukr, or "gratitude" in Arabic, that sells
contemporary Islamic clothing . The web-
site addressed a need Ya-Sin himself felt:
"You know I don't want my wife co wear a
burkha (a headpiece covering everything
but the area around one's eyes). And I don't
want to wear traditional clothing for some-
one
from
Ko
Racha.
I'm
from Ko Racha. I'm from Nantucket,
Massachusetts, but I'm a Muslim," he said.
Even as he cries to break out of the
unflattering
mold
which
many
Americans place Muslims, Ya-Sin is
grounded by Islam and his daily prayers.
His efforts are focused not on single-hand-
edly reversing stereotypes but on his daily
commitments. He keeps the same jovial,
optimistic attitude char he had when he
was once swept away with the excitement
of a modeling career. Although Ya-Sin now
answers more questions about verb-tense
than about perfect dates, he finds this life
more worthwhile: "It's not like rea-eational
volleyball...like if you don't show up it's not
important. I'll be missed."
-Concha Mendoza


**Observational Skills in Medicine**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

B
EFORE THE OPERATION, a resident poked his head into the
room,. where the patienr .was waiting \~'ith her friend, and
asked 1f she had any qucsnons. The paucnt fiddled with her
hair and meekly answered, "No." Rushing our of the room, the res-
ident mechanically reassured her, "Everything will be fine," already
in the hallway before he got out the lasr word.
Linda Friedlaender, the patient's friend and the current
Curator of Education at the Yale Cencer for British An, was
incensed by the residenr's failure to notice ht:r friend's obvious ner-
vousness and reservation. That night she complained to her hus-
band, a doctor, "If rhar resident had just rakcn a minute, he could
have actually addressed her needs. Someone needs to teach these
rc~idcm~ how co be berrcr observers."
FrnRliARY 2.004
A
T AROUND THE SAME TIME, in 1997, Dr. Irwin Braverman, a
der~a~ologist and an insrrucror at the Yale School of
Med•cme for nearly forty years, was coming to his own con-
clusions about his students' limited observational skills. While a sig-
ni~cant part of being a good diagnostician is the ability to recogniu
parterns you have been taught, the best kind of doctor should not
only be able to recognize known patterns, but begin to detect new
ones. A mediocre diagnostician simply scans a patient for the kinds
of symptoms that would indicate a certain known disease. The great
diagnositician must be, in Dr. Braverman's words, "more like
Sherlock Holmes." That is, he must investigate the body, like a
detective, observing the slightest details and the subtlest aberra-
tions. But in Dr. Braverman's experience, dermarology residents are
9



**Improving Observation Skills in Medical Students Through Art**
**Author: David Zax**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
rarely this observant, they rely on patterns they have memorized 
instead of being on the lookout for new ones. 

But despite residents' initial tendencies to overlook the uncom-
mon (or, in Friedlaender's case, the seemingly obvious), Dr. 
Braverman observes, "After they're on their own for about five 
years-they suddenly get how to see things on their own." The 
observation that young doctors eventually developed sophisticated 
observational skills on their own indicated a curricular gap. Medical 
schools have always acknowledged the importance of visual obser-
vation, says Dr. Braverman, 
but they never knew how to 
teach it. "They just assumed 
you could do it if you were 
smart, and no one did any for-
mal instruction on visual 
observation," he says. But visu-
al 
observation 
could 
be 
learned, and was being learned 
by doctors independent of 
their medical school training. 
"So the question for me then 
was: how can they get the skill 
· sooner?" 

began to see concrete results: "The first-year studentS were doing 
better than the second-year studentS." 

To the veteran professor, it seemed that a new method of med-
ical school training had been discovered. 

T
hree years after the auspicious beginnings of Dr. Braverman's 
program, Linda Friedlaender leads me on a tour of the paint-
ings that can teach doctors to be sleuths. Our first stop is a 
large portrait of a woman arranging some flowers in vases, "Mrs. 
James Guthrie" by Frederic, 
Lord Leighton. "I only use 
Victorian narrative paintings, 
filled with details. They're 
meant to read like a novel in 
paint," Friedlaender explains. 
"I didn't want to use an 
abstract painting with a blue 
canvas and an orange dot." 

Friedlaender tells the stu-
dents to study a painting 
without reading the explana-
tory panel that accompanies 
it. This allows students to 
mentally catalogue every fea-
ture in the painting. After 15 
minutes, the students recon-
vene to discuss their findings. 
"I actually had one stu-
dent describe this painting 
and say nothing about the 
flowers. I said, 'Would you 
like to say anything about 
what's in her hand?' "The ten-
dency of the students is to skip 
the step of observation and 
leap straight to analysis, and it 
is Ms. Friedlaender's task to 
slow them down. "Someone 
will say, 'She's removing the 
flower because it' s dead,' and 
I'll say, 'That's a judgment. I 
want details.' Then they'll say, 
~ight, well it looks wrinkled, 
and it's brown.' B;:i"t then 

he idea that medical stu-
dents might improve 
their observational skills 
by 
studying 
paintings 
occurred, as overdue ideas 
sometimes do, to two people at 
more or less the same time. In 
this case it also occurred to two 
people in the same place. Over 
Thanksgiving 
of 
1997, 
Braverman struck upon the 
idea that maybe if he showed 
the studentS " a foreign object," 
they could practice their skills 
on it. "And actually 'painting' 
was the first thing that popped 
into my head," he adds with a 
chuckle, "because I thought 
that might be the most foreign 
object a medical student might 
ever encounter." 

someone might point out that 
she might be adding the 
flower to give variety to the 
bouquet. First we get the 
details, then we generate all possibilities of what they mean." 

Dr. Braverman took a few 
residentS to the Yale Center for 
British Axt and made them 
study the minute details of narrative paintings. Within a few weeks, 
the residentS already seemed to be better at diagnosing skin rashes. 

Not all patterns or details have a significant meanil\g. just as a 
patient's symptoms aren't all necessarily indicative of a particular 
disease. "Unless one day we turn the painting over and see that Lord 
Leighton wrote, 'In this painting Mrs. Guthrie is removing dead 
flowers,' we'll never really know. And the bottom line, in this case," 


she adds, lowering her voice, "is that the artist probably just want-
ed to give her something to do." 

The program is about disciplining oneself to recognize all a 
painting' s features--not to show off how one can spin these fea-
tures into a fanciful diagnosis. The skills a resident learns in the 
museum will benefit both doctors and patients back in the examin-
ing room. 

On Friedlaender's desk is a small decorative sign reading, 
"When you hear hoof beats, don't look for zebras." She looks 
amused and says, " I take that to 
mean, when something's obvious, 
don't read more into it." 

The Yale School of Medicine 
gave 
Dr. 
Braverman and Ms. 
Friedlaender's fine arts program 
informal approval in 1998. A year 
later, a dermatology student named 
Jacqueline Dolev, who was working 
on her thesis project, asked its 
founders if she could run a scientific 
study of the program's efficacy. 
Together, the three developed a sys-
tem of pre- and post-testing, where-
in students examined photographs 
of skin diseases immediately prior 
to and just after the museum visits. 

The skills a resident 
learns in the museum 
will benefit both doctors 
and patients in the 
examtntng room. 

The team collected data for 
two years, and in September of 
2001, Th~ Journal of th~ Ammcan 
M~dical Association published the 
study. The students involved in the 
fine arts program showed an 
improvement of ten percent in their 
observational skills--a statistically 
significant increase. Today, Yale 
requires its first year medical stu-
dents to take the course. "We got 
reams 
publicity," 
says 
Friedlaender. "We were on TV in 
Washington, it went over the AP, we got all kinds of calls, there was 
a big article in the Nnu l'Ork Ttm~s. Someone said he would get us 
on 'Good Morning America.'" 

Though Friedlaender and Braverman never did go on morning 
television, their program has spread across the country. Today, Dr. 
Braverman triumphandy exclaims, "Other schools have adopted 
the program, in whole or in part: Brown, Stanford, Tulane, 
University of California Irvine, Duke, Cornell ... ". 

Many of the medical schools that incorporated the program 
into their curricula have acted with the intention of making med-
ical students more well-rounded, not just better observers. Some 
schools speculate that exposure to art will nurture a young doctor-
ro-be's heart as well as his mind. 

"There has been a real proliferation of courses in medical 
schools dealing with medicine and the humanities, • says 
Friedlaender. (Yale, for instance, runs an optional lecture series on 
the humanities in medicine with such tides as "The Muses: Health 
and Illness" and " Artists Paint the Black Plague." ) "Some schools 
are doing this as a way to humanize the medical system, to help 
doctors become more empathetic. What we do has nothing to do 
with that." The artwork she and Dr. Braverman use is selected not 
for its artistic value but for its visual detail-hence the heavy 
reliance on narrative painting. 

As Friedlaender is quick to point out, the fine art program is 
not about "rounding out" the medical 
student or putting the student in 
touch with his artistic side. This is a 
program solely about the art of dose 
observation, about enhancing the 
capacity to compute visual details. In 
short, it is about brainwork. 

But, as Dr. Braverman explained, 
the program is meant to do more than 
improve powers of analysis. It is also 
about putting the doctor-in-training 
in touch with a more human side of 
the doctor-patient relationship. He 
adds that although it may not 
heighten their artistic appreciation, 
it will help doctors attend to their 
patients in a more personal way. 

His voice takes on a tone of 
urgency as he explains, "If you just 
spend the time examining the 
patient... the patients know when 
you are paying attention to them-
we' re talking about visual observa-
tion now, but also listening, touch-
ing, this applies to all rnculties of 
observation-the patients 
then 
know you are concerned about 
them, and they will trUSt you. And 
they' ll actually do what you pre-
scribe them to do--and they' U get 
better! As opposed to those who won't trust a doctor, won' t take the 
medicine, shop around ... And I think that this develops a wonder-
ful patient-physician bond." 

In the eyes of Ms. Friedlaender and Dr. Braverman, observing 
patients with an eye for detail is not just the sign of a competent 
doctor, but a doctor who cares. As Dr. Braverman puts it, "There's 
looking at and there's seeing. Anyone can look, but how many can 
actually see?" 

David Zax, a sophomo" in SiUiman Co/kg~. is on tiN staff of 
TNJ. 




**Title: AFTER THE**
**Author: Flora Lichtman**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
AFTER THE
A
FTER SIX MONTHS OF HEATED CONTROVERSY, New Haven's 
last local lender fmally won City Hall's approval to go public. 
Since New Haven Savings Bank (NHSB) first announced its 
plan in July to acquire two other area banks and to become a pub-
licly held company, protest from the community has dragged the 
bank into a battle over depositors' rights, personal greed, and dis-
criminatory lending practices. Leading the charge against the merg-
er was Mayor John DeStefano who until a few weeks ago claimed it 
would compromise the bank's ability to serve local customers. 
Then, on January 26, events took a surprising turn. DeStefano 
greeted a crowd of bank supporters and press cameras in the lobby 
of the bank's main branch on Church Street to announce a com-
promise that would permit the merger-but only if New Haven 
were cut in on the deal. 

City Hall's blessing did not come cheap. As part of the agree-
ment, New Haven Savings Bank will contribute $40 million from 
the conversion to its own charitable fund, $25 million of which will 
go to the Independent Foundation, a fund that will be "focused on 
New Haven" and administered by a combination of city, bank, and 
community representatives. In the event that NewAllianq: {the 
bank's post-conversion moniker} fails to maintain its commitment 
to the local community, the Independent Foundation board can use 
the money to found a new mutual savings bank. The bank has also 
committed $27.5 million to a program dubbed "NewAlliance for 
Neighborhoods." Intended to serve the interests of working class 
families and inner-city neighborhoods, it will allocate an addition-
al $6 million for loans to low and moderate-income borrowers at 
less than 2 percent interest. According to bank chairman, president, 
and CEO Peyton Patterson, NewAlliance for Neighborhoods is 
intended to demonstrate the bank's "unwavering support for home 
ownership in greater New Haven, specifically working-class citizens 
and small, independent businesses." 

Considering that as a private institution, NHSB does not legally 
need approval from the city or the community to proceed with the 
conversion, it is certainly shelling out a lot of money just to silence 
City Hall. {DeStefano's part of the bargain includes a five-year gag 
order, during which time he cannot speak out against NHSB, pro-
vided it upholds its half of the agreement.) After all, the bank 
already has the approval of Connecticut Banking Commissioner 
John Burke, and thus needs only federal approval to proceed with 
the conversion at the end of March. And though City Hall is now 
willing to hold its tongue, many community groups are not, mean-
ing NewAlliance Bank might need to do more than throw money 
around to keep its customers happy. 

FOR ANYONE UNFAMILIAR WITH THE NHSB controversy, the 
bank's plan to acquire Connecticut Bankshares Inc. and 
Alliance Bancorp of New England (the holding companies for 
two other area banks, Savings Bank of Manchester and Tolland) 
might seem shrewd, though not entirely unexpected. After all, 18 
other hometown banks have been bought out in the last 20 years. 
Every other local mutual bank has been converted, and 75 percent 
of those converted banks have been bought out by publit:ly owned 
conglomerates (think Walmart-style franchise banking). From a 
business standpoint, it does not seem unreasonable that the Board 
of Directors and President of NHSB might follow suit. 

New Haven Savings Bank chairman, president, and CEO Peyton 
Patterson has repeatedly cited NHSB's weak position relative to other 
banks in the market as the reason for the proposed acc;luisition and 
conversion. "New Ha~en Savings Bank assets have grown 50 per-
cent less than other banks in Connecticut, in the last four years .. · · 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


**Title: Who stands to lose when a New Haven bank goes public**
**Author: (Author not specified)**
**Page number(s): 15**

T his is not a viable long term strategy." In fact, in recent years NHSB 
has grown only 2. 77 percent compared to an average of eight per-
cent growth at other banks. Wachovia, with over rwice as much 
money in deposits as NHSB, has the top market share in New Haven 
with 36 percent of all deposits, including the city of New Haven's 
money, despite the fact that NHSB has nearly three times as many 
branches in the area. "To have a competitive advantage that is sus-
tainable, to have a competitive advantage. that is 1ong term, we 
knew we had to make a change," Patterson insisted to a group of 
stony-faced protesters at a public hearing at the Hamden Memorial 
Complex in December. When the conversion is complete, the new 
bank will boast 73 branches, up from 36, and $5.3 billion in assets, 
up from $2.4 billion. Statewide it will be the second largest savings 
bank and fifth largest bank overall, holding the ftft:h largest share of 
the market. And all this before the bank even puts its stock up for 
sale. 

The acquisition is slated to cost $677 million, approximately 
250 percent above book value. But the conversion to a publicly held 
company will more than cover the cost of the acquisition. In addi-
tion to $33 million in break up fees from the other banks, the bank 
will be sold for $10 a share and is expected to generate $86o million 
in revenue. The depositors, employees, and board members will 
have the first opportunity to buy stock in the bank in descending 
order. After that the public will be allowed to buy in. There is a clear 
incentive for investors to buy the shares, because, more often than 
not, a mom-and-pop bank that goes public is quickly bought out 
f£BRUARY 2004 
by a Bank of America or Wachovia, and the stock skyrockets in 
value. 

But this incentive failed to bring the bank's depositors much joy, 
probably because they were denied a vote in the process. Because 
the depositors are, by defin ition, the owners of a mutual savings 
bank, some account holders argue that they should be given the 
right to vote on the conversion and proposed acquisition. Others 
worry that the proposed conversion is driven by greed, not necessi-
ty, as it has been billed by Patterson. According to some critics, the 
biggest strike against the bank was that New Haven Savings Bank 
was designed to be a community lender and this change would 
inevitably mean a deviation from its original mission. In the bank's 
conversion plan, the only assurance that it will maintain a local 
focus is Patterson's word and a five-year anti-takeover stipulation. 
The bank is safeguarded against being bought out until 2008, at 
which rime the protection expires. "No one is foolish enough not to 
expect a takeover, "State Representative Cameron Staples said. And 
even if the bank were not taken over, like 75 percent of its prede-
cessors, there is no assurance that the bank will remain invested in 
New Haven. 

The backlash has been more intense than the bank's executives 
could have foreseen. With DeStefano at the helm, and several local 
activist groups on board, including Connecticut Center for a New 
Economy (CCNE), Elm City Congregations O rganized (Ecco) and 
I) 



**Title: The New Haven Savings Bank Controversy**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
edeemer-many 
New Haveners were ral-
lied out of apathy. "There has 
been a bank robbery," DeStefano said 
dramatically, opening one of several 
press conferences on the front steps of 
the bank. The Mayor even appropriated 
city dollars to fund a telephone drive, 
calling the people to action with a phone 
message designed to make New Haveners' 
blood boil: "For 165 years greater New 
Haven working class families have put their 
hard earned savings into New Haven 
Savings Bank. Now insiders want a deal 
that will make them millions and leave 
everyone else out in the cold." To some 
extent, the crusade has been successful. 
Letters decrying the bank's proposal have 
flooded the newspapers. Nearly all of the 
members of Board of Aldermen publicly 
opposed the conversion, and over 300 peo-
ple, many bearing placards with dollar 
signs printed on them, gathered at public 
hearings in Hamden on cold winter days--
first on December 5 and again on January 
5-to show their disapproval. 

The argument that depositors, as own-
ers, deserve some say in the process, 
through a vote or public forum, may be 
ethically mandated, but it is not necessarily 
required by law. In fact, the Connecticut 
State Banking Commission does not even 
recognize a depositor vote. Under state law, 
for a mutual bank to undergo a conversion, 
the Board of Directors must appoint a 
Board of Corporators co represent the 
depositors and approve the decision, which 
explains why 
NHSB appointed such a Board just a few 
months before the conversion was pro-
posed. The Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) requires that the bank 
apply for a waiver of a vote by depositors 
(even though Connecticut won't recognize 
a depositor vote). But to obtain the waiver, 
the FDIC must determine chat the Board of 
Corporators is "sufficiently independent 
from the Board of Directors." On 
November 17, the FDIC approved the waiv-
er. 

But despite federal approval, some New 
Haveners cried larceny. DeStefano argued 
that the FDtc's standards for evaluating the 
Board's composition were simply too low. 
Incidentally, NHSB appointed ten members 
of the Board of Directors to the Board of 
Corporators and another eleven connected 
to New Haven Hospital Qoseph A. 
Zaccagnino, President of New Haven 
Hospital is on the Board of Directors). And 
because there have been so many calls to 
the state banking commission about this 
case (nearly ninety opposing the conver-
sion and only four in favor), the chairman 
decided co hold a public hearing in order to 
give the bank, elected officials, and espe-
cially the depositors a chance to testify on 
the matter. At the 
meeting, 
State 
Representative Toni Walker argued that not 
only are the corporators far from indepen-
dent, they are also not representative of the 
depositors--the other prerequisite stipulat-
ed by law. "Twelve percent of depositors are 
low income, 16 percent are of moderate 
incomo--this is not accurately represent-
ed," she said to Commissioner Burke. But 
when the FDIC granted the bank the waiv-
er, this argument had the wind knocked 
out of its sails---effectively becoming little 
more than a moral qualm. 

BUT THE OPPOSITION has additional 
complaints: This is not just theft-it 
is greed. The Board of Directors and 
President claim that the acquisition and 
conversion are necessary for the bank to 
remain competitive. The opposition has 
dubbed this market-made-me-do-it argu-
ment as nothing more than a cover-up for 
the real motivator: personal enrichment. 
It is undeniable that the Board of 
Directors and Patterson stand to profit as a 
result of this conversion. Originally, 14 per-
cent of the stock proceeds were to be ear-
marked for incentive programs for direc-
tors and managers and an additional four 
percent of the proceeds from the conver-
sion were co be distributed to management 
for overseeing the conversion. The pro-
posed $10 a share stock offer is expected to 
add up to $86o million, providing $120-4 
million for management incentives as well as an additional $34.4 millio~ in bonuses 
for overseeing the ·conversion. "With a 
senior management team where five of the 
six senior officers have been there less than 
two . years, it is impossible to comprehend 
this level of generosity," Paul Johnson of 
Guilford wrote in a December letter to the 
N~w Hav~n R~gist~r. Now, thanks to 
DeStefano and Patterson's deal, bank man-
agers, officers, and employees will reap less 
personal gain and the city will get a piece of 
the profit. Though the bank originally ear-
marked $30 million from the conversion to 
go to its own charitable founda-
tion, 
community dissent 
prompted the bank to rise 
to the agreed-upon $40 
million. 

In 
spite 
of 
Mayor 
DeStefano's wrangling, many 
people in the community are dissatisfi~~ 
with the way New Haven Savings Bank has 
done business in the past and fear that the 
situation will only worsen after the merger. 
Last September, CCNE examined NHSB's 
lending record in its "A Ve.r:y Red Line" 
Report. For a bank that supposedly serves 
the inner-city New Haven community and 
boasts 31 branches in 20 towns and com-
munities in the New Haven area, the 
results were damning. 
According to CCNE, in 2002 NHSB 
granted mortgage loans to 25 whites, five 
African Americans and two Latinos in the 
city of New Haven, despite the fact that . 
AfriC:an Americans and Latinos constitute 
the majority of residents in the city. 
Between . 1998 and 2002, NHSB ~de 15 
times the number ofloans to whites than to 
blacks or Latinos. Between 1998 and 2002, 
NHSB consistently made more conventional 
mortgage loans to upper-income neighbor~ 
hoods than low and moderate income 
neighborhoods.· combined. A recent study 
by the National Association of Community 
Organizations for Reform Now ranked 
Greater New Haven seventh highest in ~e 
nation for the rejection of upper-income 
minorities applying for conventional home 
mortgages . 

Ironically, to block die merger legally 
the opposition must sully the hank's name 
while maintaining that the proposed 
changes would damage the community 
even further. According to FDIC rules, if it 
can be proven that NHSB is not fairly serv-
ing ·its existing community through 
unfair lending practices, for examplee-
then it will not be 
allowed to 
acqutre 
other 
banks. 
This 
means that 
if the bank is lending dis-
proportionately to rich whites, 
the FDIC is well within its rights to 
stop its practices from spreading. On 
the other hand,· it is difficult to argue for 
the independence of a bank that is already 
doing such a poor job. A bigger bank, sup-
porters of the conversion argue, would do 
better. The CCNE report suggests that NHSB 
is well below average for its lending to low 
income and minority communities, indi-
cating that most conglomerate banks are 
better 
shooting a hole through the argu-
ment that a local lender makes it easier for 
the working class to get loans. From a prac-
tical perspective, underserved c~mrnunities 
would stand to profit if the bank could 
acquire more capital or were even bought 
out by a bank with a better lending record. 
For example, Wachovia 
a bank that 
runs the length of the east coast, and that 
bought out First Union Bank in New 
Haven 
has the capital to invest and serve 
the communitY" in a way ~at First Union 
and New Haven Savings Bank never could. 
In 2002, 39 percent of Wachovia's conven-
tionaltnortgage lending ($1.2 billion) went 
to low and moderate income 


**Title:  New Haven Savings Bank Continued**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

depositors: NHSB gave 28 percent of its 
$308.8 million mortgage dollars . to low-
and 
moderate-income 
depositors. 
Wachovia has invested $734 million in 
community development in Connecticut 
alone, and $325 million of Wachovia's 
·Connecticut community investment goes 
to "affordable housing initiatives" compared. 
with $27 million proposed by NHSB if the 
conversion goes through. Wachovia, not 
even a full-fledged Wal-Mart of the bank-
ing world, has the means to give more to -
·New Haven and the region than a New 
Savings 
Bank, · · or 
even 
a 
NewAlliance, ever could. 

Some supporters of the conversion have 
touted regionalism as a possible way to save 
cities like New Haven with faltering cap-
ital and a green ring of wealthy surround-
ing suburbs. The proposal to acquire banks 
in Manchester and Tolland could· conceiv-
ably strengthen the region by building a 
coalition of investors from the rich sub-
urbs. While regionalism is usually associat-
. ed with redistribution ·of funds from the 
suburbs to the city, this proposal is an odd· 
example of regionalism flowing in the 
other direction. This acquisition would 
involve taking New Haven city capital (93·3 
percent of its deposits are from the New 
Haven metropolitan area} and investing it 
into the homes and businesses of the sub-
urbs. Ideally, this will pull suburban 
resources into the city's financial assets. 
This reverse in cash flow has also inverted 
the usual supporters and opposition to 
regional plans. At the town meeting in 
December, for example, DeStefano criti-
cized the bank for "turning the wealth 
made by New Haven to a program that is 
regional in nature." This might strike some 
as an odd critique, coming as it does from 
the Chairman of the Blue Ribbon 
Commi5sion on Property Tax Burdens and 
Smart Growth Incentives-the same man 
who has recommended the "sharing, on a 
regional basis, of a portion of the state sales 
tax generated in each municipality'' and 
"the sharing of any other additional rev-
enues on a regional basis." The idea of cap-
ital flowing in the other direction does 
seem counter-intuitive, but if the feeling of 
shared identity with surrounding towns 
existed, perhaps this conversion would be a 
little more palatable to community-orient-
ed groups like the ECCO, CCNE, and the AFL-
CIO Greater New Haven Central Labor 
Council. 

Despite the city's multi-million dollar 
windfall, many fear that this money, while 
certainly welcome, will not solve the real 
problem: the bank's discriminatory lending 
practices and wavering commitment to its 
working class clientele. CCNE President 
Andrea Cole sees the NewAlliance for 
Neighborhoods fund as a "nice gesture," 
but fears that the $6 million dollars alone 
will not alter NHSB's policies. Despite 
CCNE's report, the bank has yet to respond 
to its alleged red-lining, and does not seem 
likely to change its policy anytime soon. 
Indeed, having placated the city officials, 
and won state approval, bank executives 
may believe that the worst is over. But 
beyond the walls, some customers and 
community organizations realize a boycott 
will take far more than 300 angry protesters 
at a public hearing to motivate change, and 
they have bigger plans in mind. 
On February 5, Greater New Haven 
Central Labor Council Leader and Local35 
head Robert Proto decided to "stay the 
course" and boycott NHSB by continuing to 
urge its customers to withdraw their money 
from the bank if it goes public. The boy-
cott, also backed by ccNE and_ Ecco, is 
des~gned to cripple the bank into backing 
out of the conversion or, more realistically, 
shock it into devoting more resources to its 
Greater New Haven depositors. Already 
ECCO is planning to mobilize its denomina-
tional members in a massive letter-writing 
campaign aimed at congregations in the 
Manchester and Tolland areas. ECCO


**Title: New Haven Savings Bank Boycott**
**Author: Flora Lichtman**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
-
spokesman Pat Spears sees the conversion 
as a failure of the city's civic elite to put 
New Haven's needs before their own pock-
ets. He hopes the boycott will prompt the 
bank to "atone for its lending record," both 
by publicly addressing the accusations of 
red-lining and by instituting practices such 
as bilingual hiring and post-mortgage 
counseling for first-time homeowners. 
CCNE's Cole agrees that if the boycott can-
not halt the merger, it will hopefully force 
NewAlliance into offering the community 
"a real plan and accountability." 

If successful, the boycott may not ulti-
mately keep NHSB from going public, but it 
might be enough to keep the bank local. As 
New Haven's last mutual savings bank and 
one of a dwindling number of small-town 
businesses in today's incorporated America, 
New Haven Savings Bank has a certain 
symbolic currency, but also a real social 
obligation to its depositors. Two funds 
approaching $30 million each for the city 
and its residents is no mean sum, but New 
Haven is a city that knows that throwing 
money at a problem seldom solves it. Be it 
New Haven Savings Bank or New Alliance, 
if the bank does not stand up for its com-
munity, the community will continue to -
stand up to it. 
Flora Lichtman, a junior in Davmport 
College, is Asssociau Editor for TNJ. 
FEBRUARY 2004 
'Branford ~ster's Tea 
Branford Master's House 
74 High Street 
an 
February 26th 
4:00PM 
I9 


**Title: The Yale Police Department wrestles with allegations of racial profiling**
**Author: Paige Austin**
**Page number(s): 21**

l
AST DECEMBER. A NEW HAVEN woMAN was dri-
ving home to Fair Haven from her job cleaning 
house on Mansfield Street. As she turned 
onto Prospect Street, Marta* noticed a Yale Police car 
in her rearview mirror. She continued driving for three 
of four blocks, more carefully now, all the while growing 
more nervous, since for several other illegal immigrants 
she knows, encounters with the police have meant harass-
ment, large fines, and even deportation. 

At a stop sign several blocks down Prospect Street, the 
Yale patrol car finally pulled her over. The reason, she later 
learned, was that her license plate was inside her back window 
instead of attached to her bumper. In Marta's neighborhood, near 
the intersection of Grand Avenue and Ferry Street, it is routine for 
residents to keep their license plates inside the car to prevent them 
from being stolen. No New Haven police officer had ever stopped 
her for it before. 

The Yale officer asked to see Marta's license and registration. 
Marta, who immigrated to Connecticut illegally from her native 
Mexico three years ago, told him she did not have a license. Instead, 
Marta gave the officer her Mexican consular identification card-
her only form of 10. With the officer now holding her name, 
address, and photograph, Marta's fears intensified: She worried that 
he would follow her home or, worse, arrest her on the spot. 

Instead, the officer asked her where she worked and then, 
noticing her hesitant response, asked if she spoke English. "I said 
'No I don't, but I'm going to school.' And he said to me, 'You have 
to learn English,"' she later recounted. 

The officer's comment heightened Marta's usual fear <;>f police. 
"They always make me afraid," she explained. "They are able to 
deport us and so they make me afraid, because it was very difficult 
for me ro get here, and I have my son here." So she did not say any-
thing when the officer returned to his car, carrying Marta's consular 
ID card with hi!_ll. She was relieved just to roll up her window and 
head towards home. The patrol car followed her for several more 
blocks, fading from view only when she reached Elm Street and 
turned left towards Fair Haven-and away from Yale. 

T
HE MISSION OF THE YALE PoUCE DEPARTMENT, posted on their 
website, is simple and straightforward: "Building on a century 
of service and achievement, we are dedicated to reducing and 
prevepting crime, and serving our community in partnership with 
the city of New Haven." As sworn police officers, imbued with the 
same authority as members of any other Connecticut police force, 
the Yale police respond to calls, give tickets, and make arrests any-
where in the city of New Haven. In practice, though, the depart-
ment focuses on the Yale campus and Yale-owned buildings, which 
span the area from the Yale Bowl to the newly acquired physical 
plant on James Street-with Yale-New Haven Hospital, Science 
Hill, central campus, and a hefty swath of commercial and residen-
tial New Haven in berween. Recently, the YPD has expanded in 
other directions as well. According to the New Haven Police 
21 



**Title: Yale Police: A "Free Pass" for Yale Students?**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Department, a new YPD sub-station recent-
ly opened near Yale-New Haven Hospital 
in what is technically the Hill neighbor-
hood, and construction is slated to begin 
this spring at the department's new head-
quarters on Lock Street in the Dixwell 
neighborhood. 


Still, the YPD officer-to-resident ratio is 
considerably higher than that of the New 
Haven Police, who have about 400 sworn 
officers spread out across a city of 123,000. 
The YPD, therefore, often responds to 
crimes that the New Haven police may not 
'have time to cover. A typical YPD weekly 
log, printed in the Yale Bulletin, reads like a 
lirany of the state's most minor offenses: 
"breach of the peace," "drug possession," 
"trespassing." According to Administrative 
Lieutenant Michael Patten, motor vehicle 
violations like the one for which Marta was 
stopped are a lower priority, but still a reg-
ular part of a patrol officer's duty. 


Even so, YPD arrests assert the depart-
ment's presence in the community. Crime 
in New Haven, particularly in the vicinity 
of Yale, has fallen considerably in the last 
decade, reducing· New Haven's reputation 
as an unsafe place for students to live. But 
the lower crime rate has come at a cost. A 
growing number of students and commu-
nity members complain that the increase in 
law enforcement has diminished New 
Haven residentS' sense of comfort on cam-
pus. The YPD, its critics contend, srands out 
among other urban police departmentS for 
itS chronic racial-profiling, disrespect for 
the people it detains or questions, and most 
frequently, for its disparate treatment of 
those who are affiliated with Yale and those 
who are not. In the eyes of the Yale Police, 
says one student, a Yale 10 card is "like a 
free pass." 


Last year, members of the Student 
Legal Action Movement (sLAM) were so 
outraged by charges of Yale bias that they 
began monitoring the YPD police log and 
collecting anecdotes of mistreatment at the 
hands ofYale police officers. Their co!'ldu-
sion, according to current SLAM member 
Ikponmwosa Ekunwe SY 'o6, was that the 
arrestS appeared to be a thinly veiled pre-
tense for forcing city residents .off campus. 
"I even saw someone arrested for littering," 
Ekunwe recalled recently. "These are just 


obvious sorts of intimidation tactics, intim~ 
idating people from coming to campus." 


Yale students guilty of the same petty 
offenses, she added, are almost always 
ignored by the department. 


Given the starkly different racial com-
positions of the university community and 
the city-only 12.5 percent ofYale students 
identify themselves as black or Hispanic 
compared to over half of the city's popula-
tion-the charge of non-Yale bias among 
Yale police officers frequently translates 
into an accusation of racial bias as well. 


In 
researching 
the 
relationship 
resolved when the student showed the offi-
cer his Yale 10. Encounters like this, the 
professor says, have led some minority stu-
dents and even faculty at Yale to don Yale 
paraphernalia and wear their 10 cards 
around their necks in an attempt to stave 
off potential harassment. 


The Yale Police, for their part, deny 
any accusations of bias. In a recent email, 
Chief of Pol~ce James Perrotti wrote, "The 
idea that we practice selective enforcement 
is not true. Our services are provided co 
both affiliated and non-affiliated persons ... 
Treating non-affiliated persons with a dif-
"If you're in a residential college and you 
don't belong there-you're not a member 
of the community-you're liable to come 
to our attention." He rejects the charge that 
University affiliation would be determined 
by race, since the YPD officially opposes 
racial profiling as both unethical and inef-
fective. Still, in a moment of candor, he did 
agree that students are less likely to commit 
crimes than other people in the city. 


"There's a big screening process they go 
through to get in here," he explained. 


Chief Perrotti points our, though, that 
the YPD will investigate charges of miscon-
duct brought by anyone in 
the community-not just 
Yale students. Yet when it 
comes to disagreeing with the 
law, there may be no such 
thing as an even playing field. 


between Yale police and Yale 
undergraduates for her senior 
thesis in sociology, Jessica Price 
J£'04 has found that students of 
color, on average, have a drasti-
cally lower opinion of the Yale 
Police than white students-
even accounting for differences 
in socio-economic background 
and previous experiences with 
law enforcement. T he sense of 
personal affront is not unfound-
ed. Among Price's respondents, 
black and Hispanic students are 
more likely to have had a serious 
and negative interaction with 
the Yale Police than other stu-
dents. For most of these stu-
dents, the interrogation ended as 
soon as they produced a Yale ID. 
In the case of one black student 
whom Price interviewed, the 
Yale Police stopped him as he 
entered a residential college, and 
when he didn't have an ID to 
support his claim that he was a 
student visiting a friend, they 
"Anybody who looks Hke they 
don't belong on the Yale campus 
is going to be subject to some 
level of harrassment." 


M 
arta was not the first 
person in her neigh-
borhood to lose her 
consular ID card to a pol\ce 
officer. She knows four others 
who have had theirs taken as 
well, by police in New Haven 
and 
elsewhere · 
m 
Connecticut. Losing a con-
sular ID is a big deal. "A 
Consular ID is the only cre-
dential that we have," she 
explained. "I registered my 
car with it; I opened my bank 
account with it. And now I 
don't have any form of identi-
fication." Without it, Marta 
cannot wire money from her 
bank account, nor prove her 
escorted him to his friend's room and made 
the friend identify him as a fellow Yale stu-
dent. 


One Yale professor, who prefers not to 
be named, recalls when Yale police officers 
thtew a former student against a wall 
because they were looking for someone fit-
ting his description-
a Hispanic male. As 
with the other incidents, t1Us one was 
ferent standard would be a violation of our 
values." Lieutenant Parten put it more suc-
cinctly: "It's behavior; that's what differen-
tiates whether a police officer is going to 
approach you. It's what you're doing, not 
who you are." In the case of trespassing, 
Lieutenant Parten says that no one is 
stopped just for being in public spaces such 
as the University's libraries. But, he added, 
identity should she be stopped again. 


Replacing the 10 will require upwards of six 
weeks, a trip to the Mexican Consulate in 
New York City, and an original Mexican 
birth certificate. Because she has only a 
photocopy of her birth certificate here, 
Marta must wait for her family in Mexico 
to mail her the original before she can 
make the trek co New York. 


Despite 
the difficulty of 
obtaining a new ID, Marta agreed 
with her neighbors that the alterna-
tive-asking the police to return her 
old one--was not worth the risk. But 
one of her employers had an idea that 
might help. Marta could take her com-
plaint to Junta, a non-profit agency on 
Grand Avenue that serves New Haven's 
Hispanic community. Marta took the 
advice, and to good effect: the Executive 
Director of Junta, Kica Matos, took 
Marta's.complaim vety seriously, calling it 
part of a larger trend of Yale police mis-
trcatmmt that is obscured by immigrants' 
typical ret.icence when it comes to chal-
lenging law enforcement. 


"The number of complaints against 
the Yale Police has risen in the last few 
months," Matos said in a recent interview. 
The explanation is unclear: it could be sim-
ply that as word spreads that Junta can 
help, more people are bringing their com-
plaints to the organization's attention. 


Their experience with police in their home 
countries and their fear of deportation, 
Matos says, can keep immigrants from 
questioning police authority and even from 
putting faith in the Junta staff. 


But Matos suspects the rise in com-
plaints may also reflect a larger pattern of 
Yale police officers' prejudice against peo-
ple from outside the Yale community. In 
her view, "Anybody who looks like they 
don't belong [on the Yale campus] is going 
to be subject to some level of harassment." 


In an effort to address the rise in com-
plaints-and hopefuUy secure the return of 
Marta's 11>-Matos requested a meeting 
with a YPD officer. In January, Lt. Patten 
went to the Junta office to discuss Marta's 
case. The meeting went better than Matos 
had expected. Lt. Patten explained that 
although the YPD did not have Marta's 10, 
he would be happy to write a letter to the 
Mexican Consulate on Mana's behalf to try 
to expedite the replacement process. He 
abo ofkred to share the information that 
Maros provided about consular ro cards 
with the rest of the Yale Police Department. 


Later, 
L 
t 
Pa tte n 
said the meet-
ing 
was 
not 
unusual: "We try to 
resolve issues as they 
come up so everything that 
happens doesn't necessarily go through a 
formal complaint process. We try to work 
things out ... The whole idea is for people 
get along." 


But according to SLAM members and 
other critics of the YPD, there is no substi-
tute for a strong, formal complaint process. 
According to Captain Bonnie Winchester, 
Public Information Officer for the New 
Haven Police, the NHPD, like most urban 
police departments, has officers on staff 
who sole job is to review complaints. In the 
Yale department, there are too few officers 
to accommodate such a disjuncture. 


Ekunwe from SLAM points out that this 
under-staffing means that complaintants 
could find themselves in the uncomfortable 
position of having to file their grievances 
with the supervisor of the offending officer, 
or with another officer with whom they 
have had an encounter on the street. It is an 
imperfect system, one for which easy reme-
dies do not exist. 


I 
n filet, the remedy, like the problem, may 
not lie with the ·YPD at all. According to 
Lt. Patten, when a Yale police officer 
approaches 
a 
"suspicious 
per-
son" it is often at 
the behest of a 
Yale student or 
faculty 
member. 
Patten is not alone 
in his thinking-
even those most mis-
trustful of the ypd rec-
ognize the role Yale 
community 
members 
play in keeping racial bias 
alive. Ekunwe and slam both 
report instances when a feUow 
student or, in one case, a college 
master called the Yale police to 
report the presence of a suspicious 
black male. Each time, when the ypd 
showed up, the black male in question 
turned out to be a student. 


Anecdotal accounts of racist encoun-
ters also support the idea that any racist 
action taken by the police parallels exclu-
sion within the Yale community. One 
Hispanic professor recalls a time when he 
tried to enter a residential college behind a 
student who turned to him once inside the 
gate and asked, "Can I help you?" The pro-
fessor responded angrily, "No. Can I help 
you?" Another student of his, an Afro-
Cuban living in Timothy Dwight college, 
was once approached by a Yalie who want-
ed to know what he was doing in the laun-
dry room, as if his laundry hamper and 
dirty clothes did not suffice as an explana-
tion. Stories like this support Matos's con-
tention that racial and university-centric 
bias on the part of the Yale Police may sim-
ply reflect a larger pattern of prejudice in 
the University community. As the Yale pro-
fessor put it: "It is a fact that th~e are not 
many Hispanic people here and there is a 
perception that the ones that are here are 
only cleaning toilets and floors." 


Whatever the reason for the prejudice, 
many members ofYale's activist and cultur-
al communities worry that the perception 
of mistreatment by Yale Poliee officers is 
building a wall around the University with



**Title: Yale Police and New Haven**
**Author: Paige Austin**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
an "Outsiders Not Welcome" sign above 
the gate. Activist Stephen Osserman oc' 02, 
Mus'o3 claims that several New Haven high 
school students have told him that they 
avoid the downtown and Broadway areas 
for fear of harassment from the Yale police. 
In Osserman's opinion, the only way to 
improve the situation is to revoke the ypo's 
policing authority altogether: "I think that 
the Yale Police have no business arresting 
people in the community ... Unless the safe-
ty of a stud~nt is directly involved there's 
no reason that [they] should be there unless 
the New Haven police call for back-up." 
Osserman's solution would likely 
strike Lt. Patten as a whole-sale breach of 
duty. In his view, ignoring crime is really 
not an· option. "We are sworn police offi-
cers, so when we see violations we have an 
obligation to act," he said. 

The New Haven police seem to share 
this view. For them, the presence of the 
Yale Police in the campus vicinity allows 
more time for the NHPD to focus on serious 
crimes in the rest of the city. When it 
comes to police officers on duty in New 
Haven, says Captain Winchester, "The 
more the merrier." But while the NHPD is 
grateful for the company, when Yale stu-
dents are stumbling drunkenly around the 
campus, possibly committing some of the 
same crimes that earn New Haven residents -
an anonymous mention in the Yale Bulletin 
police log, it's a different matter. As 
Captain Winchester chuckles, "We'll let 
them handle that." It's a deferral of author-
ity that, for better or worse, Marta could 
not expect. 
I " I 
* Marta is a pseudonym 
Paige Austin, 
a sophomore in Davenport College, 
is Associate Editor for TNJ. 
FEBRUARY 2004 
•• 
' 
-
I 
' . . -
7' 
·-
. .. 
' . 
• ' 
• • 
25 
. 


**Title: the mentally ill survive biased justice system**
**Author: (No author listed)**
**Page number(s): 27**

DEPOT IN ATLANTA, GEORGIA, police arrest a 
woman for trespassing. They take her down 
the station, along with all of her worldly belongings, car-
ned in a few tattered shopping bags. She spends seven months in 
jail, one month longer than the maximum state sentence for tres-
passing. In the early morning hours, she leaves the prison, located 
in an industrial area of Atlanta, in the same prcdicunent in which 
she began-alone and with nowhere to spend the night. That 
morning, she is picked up by men who rape her repeatedly. Today, 
she is HIV positive. 

"You really only needed to spend one minute with her to know 
what was wrong with her, • rccalled Stephen Bright of the Southern 
Center for Human Rights at a Davenport College Master' s tea ear-
lier this month. Bright deplores the system that arrests people 
whose problem is not criminal deviance. 

Currendy, the largest mental health institution in the United 
States is our prison system. According to a report published less 
than a year ago by the University of Massachusetts at Boston, men-
tal illness is five times more prevalent in prison than in society. One 
in six inmates is mentally ill. Many advocates think these statistics 
may signal a disturbing trend: the criminalization of mental illness. 



**Title: Jail Diversion: A New Approach to Mental Illness in the Criminal Justice System**
**Author: Romy Drucker**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Instead of committing individuals to mental health facilities, 
state correctional officials are incarcerating potential patients. In 
2001, the Connecticut Department of Correction reported that the 
number of inmates with mental health problems rose from 5.2 per-
cent to 12.3 percent. 

New Haven is no exception. According to sources at the 
Connecticut Mental Health Center, the New Haven Police 
Department handles the arrests of people who suffer from mental 
illness are handled no differently from arrests of unaffilicted indi-
viduals. A man who pulls up a chair at a Chapel Street lunch 
counter may be arrested if he becomes agitated and confused after 
he discovers that he cannot pay. A disoriented wanderer who floats 
into the Yale School of Management to use the lavatory for a show-
er may be convicted of trespassing. Many petty crimes like these are 
committed by people who are confused if not completely oblivious 
to their actions--even while they stand for their mug shot and press 
a finger ·onto an ink-pad. These innocents unknowingly project the 
· image of a prototypical "deranged" criminal. There is a wide range 
of conditions-schiwphrenia, manic depression, and even mental 
retardation-manifested in any number of non-violent misde-
meanors. But one doctor in New Haven has started a program ro 
reverse the trend, employing not just her expertise, but also a few of 
the people who understand the problem best. 

TH.E DIMLY LIT, STERILE MONOLITH of the Connecticut 
Mental Health Center on Park Street, Dr. Baranoski, who is 
so an Assistant Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at Yale, 
takes phone calls &om her small office lined with binders, folders 
and a few holiday memories. As the director of jail diversion in New 
Haven, Dr. Baranoski i$ at the forefront of a movement to keep the 
mentally ill out of jails. The files that line the walls of her office are 
the sealed cases of mentally ill offenders removed from the criminal 
justice system. These files are testaments to the progra.nM success. 
"The number of [mentally ill] people in jail in Connecticut is down 
for the first time in years," she says. The prototype has been 
replaced with a new model for criminal justice, facilitating the suc-
cessful diversion of the mentally ill. The program combines the 
expertise of medical and legal professionals with the personal expe-
riences of peer mentors who have gone through the process them-
selves. 

New Haven was one of three initial test sites for jail diversion, 
which was extended four years ago to include all Connecticut 
courts. The test sites helped enable the program's current success. 
Jail diversion programs provide on-site services to mentally ill 
defendants by placing mental health clinicians in the courts. These 
clinicians act as liaisons. With the permission of the attorney, clin-
icians notify defendants of alternatives to jail. According to a report 
issued to the Connecticut legislature, regular meetings, attended by 
the defense, prosecution, judicial staff, and mental health and cor-
rectional facility administrators allow for a resolution that "reduces 
jail [time], number of court appearances and related court costs, 
hospital days, and costs associated with arrests." Diversion has 
nothing to do with the way charges are resolved and does not affect 
the outcome of a case. 

These programs also have the potential to ameliorate the prob-
lem of dangerously overcrowded jails. Currently, Connecticut sends 
its overflow prisoners to Virginia, providing a controversial and 
expensive solution to the prison jam. A 2001 study by the 
Connecticut Center for Economic Analysis at University of 
Connecticut found that legislation to divert first and second time 
nonviolent drug offenders to treatment would save taxpayers 
$5,000 per nonviolent offender in crime savings, $7,300 in reduced 
arrest and prosecution costs, and $4,800 in health care costs. 
"Incarceration for people who are not criminals will not deter 
them from further problems," argues Dr. Baranoski. Consequently, 
the gravest proble.Ql associated with the incarceration of mentally ill 
people is a sky-high recidivism rate. Whether rehabilitation occurs, 
in America' s jails is debatable, but it is clear that mentally ill peo-
ple are not reaping any benefits. Diversion programs create an 
atmosphere in which criminals can be directly connected to the 
health care system. 

According to Dr. Baranoski, jail diversion in New Haven is 
effective because it is staffed by former offenders who understand 
what it means to be relegated to the margins of society. A woman 
with a severe mental illness created the curriculum. Nancy, an 
author and former teacher at Quinnipiac University's Public Health 
Department, built the curriculum of the Citizenship Program and 
oversees the peer mentor training sessions which are based on 
"patience, persistence, and creativity." The program strives to give 
its clients a foothold in the community by networking them with 
social services and connecting them to peer mentors, who have been 
through the justice system. Having dealt with some of the manifes-
tations of mental illnesses, including drug and alcohol abuse, pover-
ty, and criminal behavior, peer mentors can counsel with anecdotal 
therapy. Dr. Baranoski turns to her file cabinet, unlocks it, and lays 
open her folders. 

She pauses over the cases of Devan and Robert, two ex-crimi-
nals with mental illnesses who have served extended jail time, dealt 


with drug abuse and homelessness, and are 
now peer mentors. Though in their pasts, 
they have had drug problems and many 
nights when they had no place to sleep, on 
a recent afternoon the two men sat chatting 
in Baranoski' s office. Devan, a small but 
commanding man who looks like he might 
be an extra in a 198o's rap video, wore a col-
orful Coogi sweater. Robert, a big man 
with broad shoulders, sat across the table in 
an elevated wheelchair. 

Devan currently earns $Io an hour 
working at the Connecticut Mental Health 
Center in the Citizenship Program that the 
center offers as part of its jail diversion 
treatment. Though Devan is paid, he 
spends most hours as a volunteer, working 
overtime with· the people who need him. 
The program allows mentally ill people to 
give back to their community, creating a 
cycle by which mentally ill people help 
their peers live with hope, instead of being 
consumed by feelings of isolation and 
alienation. "I never had access to give," he 
says. "And I love the karma of it all. All this 
was accidental." 

As a public advocate, Devan is eager to 
share his story with his mentees. "My strat-
egy is to be honest. I do with you, not for 
you, and if you' re willing to work, I'll help 
you," he says wisely. Though he seems a bit 
aloof, sketching a face in detail in a clut-
tered conference room, Devan is sharp and 
one of the Center's most successful peer -
mentors. "I know the con-artists from the 
bullshitters," he says pointedly, as he con-
tinues with his portrait. 

When one of the members of the 
group disappeared, and no one at the cen-
ter could find him, Devan knew where to 
look. He imagined what was going on in 
the lost man' s mind. He remembered the 
feelings of vulnerability he used to suffer, 
and he searched in the most remote and 
dangerous part of the city. There, Dev~ 
found the lost man. Devan does not. only 
look out for others, he has someone who 
looks after him and builds up his confi-
dence, his ·own peer mentor, Robert: 
"When I look at Rob, I say I can' t quit." 
"Peer mentors give people confidence 
to see that they are not hopeless or worth-
less," Robert explains. There is a distance 
between these positive words· and the 
stone-faced man who absorbs himself in 
the paperwork that floods his desk. But 
Rob is emotionally involved in his work, 
recounting the story of a man suffering 
from borderline disorder who stepped into 
a store and was accused of shoplifting. 
"The people in the store didn' t like him 
there," says Robert,. "They called the 
police, said he was shoplifting, but he had 
all his receipts and the stuff was from 
another store .... " The man knew objecting 
would most likely land him back in jail, at 
least temporarily, so he remained quiet. He 
later told Robert, "the reason I di4n' t fight 
was because I knew you"d go to court with 
me, Robert." Robert' s story intimates the 
tension between mentally ill people and the 
law when an intermediary is not present. 

Robert shuffles through the pile of 
homemade · but official looking business 
cards of other peer mentors. Papers con-
cerning housing options and ways to 
obtain food stamps litter his desk. These 
guys know the type of resources needed to 
connect the mentally ill to the city. "To 
connect people with housing I have to 
know different criteria for housing. When I 
go to class, I ask people, 'Who needs food 
vouchers?' I don't take phone-calls after 
8:00 PM but I give people my number if 
they need me," he· says. Like Devan, he 
takes pride in being an advocate, a 
resource, who can implement change. 

Through the peer-mentoring system, the 
Citizenship Program provides stability for 
the unstable, and Robert and Devan can 
find consistency and routine in their new 
ability to give. 

Although jail diversion programs are 
new, the logic behind them is not. Jail 
diversion takes issue with the failed crimi-
nal justice system and asks lawmakers to 
assess failures in the context of specific 
problems. It is not the ideal panacea, but 
instead deals with a widespread problem 
through practical meat:ts. Dr. Baranoski has 
even started advocating police tutorials and· 
other pre-emptive approaches dealing with 
mentally-ill criminals. "The New Haven 
Police have been very resourceful and sensi-
tive to mental health issues," Dr. Baranoski 
says. She lauds their sincerity and efforts to 
learn more about how to observe mental 
illness and deal with it accordingly. 

At the heart of this attempt to reform 
the criminal justice system are the people 
who won' t give up looking for 
and find-
ing 
those who have lost their way. 

Tonight, Devan and' Robert may be work-
ing overtime. And the light in Dr . 
Baranoski's office is still on. 

Romy Drucker, a foshman in 
Davmport Co !kg~, is on th~ staff of TNJ. 



**Title: WAS NOT A DEVOUT STUDENT**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I 
WAS NOT A DEVOUT STUDENT. During my first movement lesson 
at the age of four at the Women's Club in Brussels, Belgium, I 
walked across the floor and the teacher announced in French, 
"She's got talent." Yet every week, my mother had to collect me 
from underneath the classroom piano, where I stubbornly crawled 
halfway through class. She would rake me to the dining room with 
floor-to-ceiling windows overlooking a deep forest, where we 
devoured thick, melted Belgian chocolate poured over French vanil-
la ice cream with salty pecans. Early on, I enumerated my dancer's 
Bill of Rights: the right to choose how much or how little I wanted 
to participate, the right to retreat under the piano in the happy 
womb of the music, and the right to a hot fudge sundae at the end 
of it all. If any of these rules had been breached I might never have 
become a dancer, or learned what it means to dedicate oneself to an 
art form. 

After a 12-year professional dance career, I now teach teenagers 
how to dance in pointe shoes at the New Haven Ballet. I took the 
job to earn income and stay involved in dance while I finish my 
undergraduate degree at Yale. The studio has a high ceiling and tall 
windows and in a far corner, the pianist" dutifully pounds out 
walcr.es. Watching the students in my class hobble around to the 
music, I try to recall how I learned to dance. I have performed as a 
ballet dancer with the New York City Ballet, and as a modern 
dancer with White Oak Dance Project and Twyla Tharp Dance. 
Even so, I feel a slight sense of panic trying to explain the most basic 
steps. I simply can't remember what it feels like not to know how 
to dance. After all these years, ballet has become a character in my 
life. I have loved it, internalized it, imagined it as my life-blood, 
wrestled with it, argued with it, and gotten sick of it. Like a spouse, 
it has both returned my love and tortured me. And when it push-
es me to my limit, I abide by my early rules-! take a break, reju-
venate, and then go back to it. 

The fact that I now teach a pointe class is ironic. I have an 
unusual history with pointe shoes. During one rehearsal period 
with City Ballet, I was learning one of the solo Fairy variations in 
Skeping B~auty and at the same time, I was working with a guest 
choreographer named Angelin Preljocaj. I spent the first half of the 
day in a studio with fifty dancers. The ballet mistress straightened 
out lines and made sure everyone had their arms in the same posi-
tion. I worked almost militantly to perfect my Fairy variation. 
Then I crossed the hall to rehearse with Angelin and his assistant. 
He had chosen only eight dancers. We wore ballet slippers that gave 
me a greater range of movement than the restrictive pointe shoes. 
The choreography was mostly contemporary; it required classical 
technique as a foundation, but the movement was more organic to 
the body than ballet. I decided then to become a modern dancer; 
I felt more at home dancing without stiff satin pointe shoes tied on 
my feet. 

Yet every Tuesday evening since September, I have tried to 
teach 14-year-olds how to pirouette on their pointed roes. I stick 
with a handful of technical corrections, expressed in simple lan-
guage. "Straighten your knees!" I shout. That's the absolute first 
thing to remember. Dancing bent-kneed on pointe is bad ballet. It's 
poor technically and can lead to injury. "Roll through your foot!• 
I yell over the music. Gracefulness arises from control, and in 
pointe shoes you establish control by using every m~cle in the foot 
to cushion the ascent and descent. Thumping down off pointe 
appears awkward. One student processes this information, and exe-
cutes the step well. "Good, very nice," I tell her, and she smiles. 
Another student, taller and longer-legged than the others, is dane-
ing underneath hersel£ "Move! You can move more than that! 
This step travels across the floor." She takes off down the diagonal. 
"Straighten the knees, roll through the foot, move." This is the lan-
guage I use most when teaching pointe work. 

I began to learn this language in my first ballet class, at a store-
front studio outside of Pittsburgh. The school was owned by two 
women, a grandmother of six and a soon-to-be airplane mechanic, 
and was named, somewhat exotically, "Ecole de Ballet." Neither 
Sandra Elsaser, a calm white-haired woman, nor Laura Fry, who 
loved flying planes as much as teaching ballet, had ever danced pro-
fessionally. The school was a hobby for them much as it was a busi-
ness. Every day after school, I would change into my leotard in the 
car on the way there, down a pack of raisins for energy, then jump 
out and run down the broken asphalt alleyway in my slippers to the 
back door of the school, just in time to start class. Ecole de Ballet 
was unusual in that it taught a classical British technique. Classes 
were structured around the Royal Academy of Dance syllabus. In 
the spring of every year, a stern-faced examiner arrived from . 
London to test the ballet steps that we had learned over the winter. 

The atmosphere at Ecole de Ballet was relaxed. I remember 
learning how to partner the Saturday that Mrs. Fry declared 
"Boyfriend Day." Every student had to show up with a boy 
usu-
ally an awkward adolescent reluctantly dragged in from among our 
seventh . grade classmates. 
For two hours, Mrs. Fry forced our 
unwilling men to haul us around the studio to T chaikovsky's 
Serenade for Strings in C 
It was fun,_ and we laughed the entire 
time. I was almost too comfortable at the school, however: I staged 
my first act of rebellion against the rigidity of ballet etiquette dur-
ing my sixth grade spring exam by showing up unprepared wearing 
electric blue Wonder Woman "underoos." The colorful speckling 
of fluorescent yellow stars gleamed through the sheer fabric of my 
dress. I went into the exam anyway, and danced around under the 
examiner's upturned nose for fifteen minutes 
the time it took for 
another student's mother to arrive with extra pink briefs. 

I have been wrestling with ballet since those Royal Academy of 
Dance days. A teacher can convey useful information, but at some 
point the student must make a commitment to figuring out how to 
apply the technique with her own head, arms, legs, toes. The chal-
lenges of ballet are not those that marty people commonly face. 
First, you have to figure out how to fit your body into a technique 
that demands superhuman physical precision. Few people have 
ninety-degree turnout, or aerobatic flexibility, or gorgeously high-
arched feet, even those with bodies that are well suited for ballet. 
The task is to come as close as possible to the perf~ct position with-
in your own physical limitations, without injury. Second, you have 
to figure out how to incorporate fluid movement between the basic 
positions. It's easy to "connect the dots" and forget that ballet needs 
to be danced, not placed. Everyone, save the exceptional few, must 
cheat to accomplish these tasks 
the best ballet dancers take short-
cuts, such as sacrificing perfect form for bolder movement. "When 
wondering whether a ballet dancer is good, you ~}ave to ask: How 
ingenious are these shortcuts? How interesting is that• particular 
way of solving the problem? 

During the Sleeping Beauty rehearsal period, I realized that 
pointe shoes and classical ballet were far too restricting to my nat-
ural way of moving and to my personality. They did not offer what 
I wanted out of dance. I started to feel like I didn't fit in at City 
Ballet anymore. I joined the company certain that I was every 
ounce the ballerina, and came out six years later thinking, "I know 
that I'm a dancer, but maybe the tutu and the tiara don't interest me 




**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Emily Coates**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
so much ... : It was a revelation. It had 
taken me over a year to decide to quit my 
job at City Ballet and explore modem 
dance. But when I finally left, I didn't want 
to look back. I was convinced I had taken 
my pointe shoes off for good; to me, 
they now represented the artificiality 
of the technique, and the conformity 
of a huge ballet company. 

I decided to become a "modern 
dancer" partly because I no longer 
wanted to subject myself to the strict 
and uniform environment that surrounds
ballet. I love the elegance of 
classical dance, and the way my body 
feels executing the steps. But I do not 
agree with the way large ballet institutions
are run. 

Initially, dancers 
show up at work every day because 
they love the art form. But then that 
joy of dancing gets trampled under 
weight pressure, petty political games, 
and demeaning treatment. At City 
Ballet, we were rarely commended for 
our work. The only feedback was 
advice for those teetering above the 
prescribed weight limit: "Get thin or 
don't dance." The ballet masters and 
mistresses have been through the system
themselves and perpetuate the 
subtle mind games and humiliating 
casting and coaching they have learned. 

While I experienced a handful of career 
highs there, most of my energy was 
focused on just trying to survive. We 
danced underweight, exhausted, and 
mentally broken down much of the 
time; and yet we were admonished for not 
"looking like we were trying ... At the point 
that I left it just didn't seem worth it any-
more, to fight that hard for my self-
esteem---even for the privilege of dancing 
gorgeous George Balanchine and Jerome 
Robbins ballets. Leaving City Ballet was 
an act of self-salvation; I dove under my 
imaginary piano to get away from the psy-
chological abuse a ballet company imposes 
on its dancers. 

After City Ballet I worked for four 
years with Mikhail Baryshnikov's modern 
dance company, White Oak Dance Project, 
and then joined Twyla Tharp Dance in 
2002. Twyla's choreography consists of a 
pastiche of movement. Ballet, Graham, jit-
terbug, yoga, and basketball, are just a few 
of the random styles that end up in her 
pieces. My dancing experience with White 
Oak was more intellectually than physical-
ly challenging; it felt good to return to bal-
let, this time through Twyla's hybrid chore-
ography. I was still certain, however, that I 
would never wear pointe shoes again. But 
Twyla is a persuasive woman. When she 
said, "Okay, so you're going to learn this 
duet. You have all that classical Balanchine 
technique. You have to use it," I decided 
not to sit down with her, as if she were a 
therapist, and explain: "You see Twyla, 
these shoes represent repression to me .... " 
I simply started working in them again. 
The challenge of returning to a skill I had 
once mastered appealed to me. I per-
formed the duet and surprisingly really 
enjoyed it. 

After learning 
that dance could be liberating, 
the shoes no longer bore 
the stigma that I had attached 
to them. They were just 
shoes. 

I realized in the middle 
of teaching my New Haven 
pointe 
class 
this 
past 
September that there is one 
thing I don't know how to 
convey to my students: the 
idea of anarchy. 
Learn the 
rules, but then make them 
your own, push them to an 
extreme, even break them. 
Anarchy in art does not mean 
free-form self-expression, or 
outpouring. Anarchy is the 
tension between the individuality
of the artist and the 
artist's firm understanding of 
the rules. 

Ballet is a highly 
technical art form, and striving
for perfection is a necessary
aspect of the ballet medium. 
But at the same time, perfect
technique can be boring. 
Often, it is the dancer's idiosyncrasies
or weaknesses that resonate. 

By these, I mean the 
individual's choices as to what 
she willingly does or does not choose to 
accept regarding the rules. 
A dancer is 
more interesting to me when she hasn't had 
all of her choices groomed out of her. 

I give one last combination before the 
pointe class ends for the evening---walks 
on pointe from the back of the room to the 
front. You have to cross each fifth position 
as you move forward on pointe, and delicately
set, not slam, one toe in front of the 
other. I give them the option to choose the 
port de bras, the positions and arrangement 
of their arms. The music starts, and they 
hop up on their blocks. Staring at them-
selves in the mirror, they forget to port de 
bras gracefully. One student's fingers jut 
out stiffly. I mention that she might want 
to think about the way she's holding her 
arms in second, the next time around. She 
nods. Another student is dancing well, so 
I tell her, "Excellent, good." I can see when 
they aren't focusing, and I can see when 
they really apply their minds to the correc-
tions. 

And then I can see when they've for-
gotten everything except the feeling of 
dancing. This doesn't happen often in an 
intermediate ballet class, but when it does, 
it's beautiful to observe. They stop process-
ing my ideas, and start coming up with 
their own. I shout, "The floor is YOURS 
-CREATE something out of this exercise!" 
in hopes of seeing that kind of hunger, that 
willful desire to make a personal impact on 
a staid, centuries-old art form. A few of 
them perk up and throw themselves into 
the steps with more energy. But there are 
others in the back of the studio just hanging
out, not paying attention. My words 
float in the air. They are too busy master-
ing the basics to consider a revolt. 
Emily Coates is a junior in Jonathan 
Edwards College. 
FEBRUARY 2004


**Title: American Woman**
**Author: Rachel Khong**
**Page number(s): 36**

IN UPSTATE NEW YORK, 25-year-old Jenny Shimada has been reli-
giously following news reports of a kidnapping in Berkeley, 
California. There, a wealthy girl has been taken captive by a 
cadre of revolutionaries who are protecting, among other things,
the 19-year-old's status as a member of the wealthiest family in San 
Francisco. The cadre reminds Jenny of old times, back when they 
used to share far-left-swinging egalitarian views with her Berkeley 
friends the way most people share toothpaste or cigarettes. She has 
since fled California after helping to bomb a government building 
and started a new life. When she's asked by an old friend to harbor 
the revolutionary kidnappers, Jenny initially hesitates. For the 
moment, she'd rather remain the aliased Iris Chan alone and 
unfound than deal with the ghosts of her radical past. In spite of 
herself, she eventually takes members of the cadre to an old aban-
doned farmhouse to regroup. Jenny's struggle to reconcile her past 
with her present is at the core of Susan Choi's novel American 
Woman. Based loosely on the Symbionese Liberation Army's kid-
napping of Patty Hearst, this powerful second novel is more than a 
mere reworking of an historical event; it is a moving political state-
ment that exposes the ever-present tension of class and race. 

Choi, who graduated from Yale in 1990, is one of many Asian 
American Yale graduates to address concerns about their communi-
ty's identity in contemporary America. Eric Liu, another class of 
1990 graduate, chronicled his own experiences as a Chinese 
American in his book The Accidental Asian: Notes of a Native 
Speaker. In it, Liu writes candidly about his childhood, adolescence, 
and young adulthood, ruminating on topics ranging from 
Chinatown to Tiger Woods to the Jewish community. Examining 
the ways in which Jews have assimilated into and even defined 
American culture, he wonders whether the Asian American com-
munity can do the same, helping to define American culture in 
ways that aren't strictly beef and broccoli. 

In terms of content and style, Liu's Accidental Asian could not 
be more different from Choi's novel. American Woman subtly brings 
the still pressing issues of societal and racial rigidity to the forefront. 
Accidental Asian speculates on what costs are incurred by the cultural
evolution to "whiteness" that has come to be virtually synony-
mous with assimilation. What links the two works, however, and 
perhaps the Asian American experience as a whole, is the idea that 
being Asian American may be no less than being simply American. 
When issues of race are not being explicitly addressed in the novels, 
you tend to forget that Jenny is Japanese-American, because she is 
like her second-generation counterparts more "American" 
than anything else. Liu echoes this sentiment as he wistfully asks 
where his "Chineseness" lies. "In my looks, surely," he writes. "In 
my culture, vestigially. In my behavior, too?" His answer seems to 
be "no," and he writes that "Chineseness seems an irrelevance: an 
inert container, just one among many, for holding the memories of 
shared experience .... It is the liquid of memory, not the cup we 
drink it from, that gives our lives content and reveals our humanity." 

Both Liu's Accidental Asian and Choi's American Woman sue-
ceed, ultimately, in relaying their distinct but overlapping messages 
because each refuses to be bound by the relatively new genre, if 
you can call it that, of Asian American-authored literary works. In 
breaking out of this mold, both works ultimately surpass those of 
their predecessors. Each has created a book that is effective rather 
than contrived. 

Choi's novels, for instance, are more in the vein of Joan Didion 
than of Amy Tan, or even those of the generally likeable, often com-
mendable Harvard graduate Gish Jen. Choi's novel is more about 
politics than it is about anti-racism or Americanized daughters and 
their East-minded parents. Jenny Shimada is simply the book's pro-
tagonist not its heroine or a savior to the world of Asian American 
households. She is one of the novel's three minority characters, but 
her Japanese background is not by any means the novel's central 
focus. As the title suggests, Jenny Shimada is the novel's American 
not Asian American woman. Much like Liu's under-
standing of his Chineseness as "an inert container" and the "cup we 
drink ... from," Jenny's Japaneseness does not dictate the whole of 
her actions. It is, indeed, who she is "vestigially," as Liu puts it, and 
this is precisely what renders the novel effective and simultaneously 
believable. As the title suggests, Jenny Shimada is the novel's American 
not "Asian American" woman. 

Choi does not, however, completely downplay the issue of race. 
In several instances, she directly addresses it effectively. Jenny's 
father long ago estranged from his daughter still remains in the 
background, struggling to come to terms with his unjust intern-
ment at Manzanar. A father-daughter reconciliation brings the 
novel to its fulfilling and necessary close. 

Tensions also run high between Jenny and the revolutionaries. 
At one point, a member of the cadre tells Jenny, "Your skin is a privilege. 
Your Third World perspective's a privilege," to which Jenny 
replies, "All I'm saying is, stop saying I'm from the Third World 
when I'm from California." 

Choi refuses to be falsely optimistic. After emerging from 
prison, for example, Jenny muses that "the world hadn't healed itself 
in the meantime." She comes to the sad realization that "it was just 
the same fatal world as always, with its staggering inequities, which 
she realized now weren't exceptions to be excised but the rules of the 
game, the very engine that kept the thing running." This realism is 
one of the reasons the novel succeeds.



**Title: The Accidental Asian: Notes of a Native Speaker**
**Author: Eric Llu**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
' 
The Accidental Asian: Notes of a Native Speaker by Eric Llu 
1 
-
• 
-.. 
American Woman: A Novel by Susan Choi (Harper 
2003) -
Accidental Asian, at times a personal memoir and at others a 
social commentary, works in a different, but equally effective way. 
Liu's approach from the onset is to challenge the norm. He remem-
bers wanting to defy stereotypes that typified all Asians as "indeli-
bly foreign, exotic, math and science geeks, numbers people rather 
than people people, followers and not leaders, physically frail but 
devious and sneaky, unknowable and potentially treacherous." Liu 
rose above these stereotypes to become, what he felt, was an" atyp-
ical" Asian. He majored in history, refused to be " pigeonholed" (as 
he believed it to be then) by joining any of the numerous Asian 
organizations, and married a redhead. Still, Liu realizes now, in his 
extreme desire to be different he managed to "turn the very key that 
lock[ed] [him] inside," rather than extricate himself from a stereo-
type. In Accidental Asian, however, Liu reconcile these two desires: 
While he admits to rebelling against the prescribed social norms, he 
studied history because he enjoyed it, married his white wife 
because he loved her, and wrote this book not to berate Asian 
America, but to convey a sense of his past and his subsequent hopes 
for the future. 

In one of the book's most moving passages, Liu recalls finding 
Hank Williams lyrics in his father's shirt pocket a year after his 
death from kidney failure. Scrawled in his "familiar penmanship," 
the lyrics read, "I'm so lonesome I could cry." And while Liu's 
depiction of this side of his father is essential to the book, it's cru-
cial that Liu doesn't dwell on this sad, often lonely transition from 
East to West. Liu chooses to focus not on past difficulties, but on 
the here and now. For instance, he emphasizes his father's affable 
nature 
how he scaled the corporate ladder, his boisterous way of 
joking with his non-Mandarin speaking friends, his general like-
ability, and refusal to be held back or put down. Liu is quick to 
emphasize that, save for a few instances in junior high, he has real-
ly never been downright oppressed solely on the basis of his race, 
and " was sometimes uncomfortable, but never really alienated." 

Aside from his diminutive height, and his inability to feather his 
hair look like the " closed wings of angels," he'd never truly felt 
alienated, which is probably true of many of today's Asian 
Americans. Liu recalls arriving at Yale feeling like an outsider, not 
simply because he was a " small Chinese boy standing at a giant 
WASP temple," but because of both " color and class ... twisted 
together in a double helix of felt inadequacy." Liu eventually dealt 
with his intimidation by banding together with others of his kind 
("fellow marginal public school grads" ) . Ultimately, however, he 
stresses that his feelings of inadequacy did not derive from his race 
alone, but from class as well. 

Liu believes he was able to achieve acceptance because of an 
"honorary whiteness." He wistfully writes of" the familiar idiom 
FEBRUARY 2004 
• • • 
of progress 
the steady sense of climbing, and climbing higher; .of 
forgetting, and forgetting more., He wears Docker's khakis, shopS 
at Crate & Barrel, and has an affinity for 
predilections he considers inescapably " white." Liu 
this assimilation is inevitable, and from a " half-full" 
tive 
is an enrichment, rather than a dilution. 

The point isn't that Asians and other minorities are generally 
accepted in America today. " The meaning of 
'" Liu 
writes, " has undergone a revolution in the twenry-nine years I have 
been alive, a revolution of color, class, and_ culture." He recogn,izes 
that this is an advancement in itsel£ Nevertheless, he argues that to 
call yourself a minority is to " sustain the dichotomy,, and ~n spite 
of this perpetual movement towards an integrated America, " the 
vocabulary of 'assimilation' has remained ftxed all this time: 
in 
whiteness, which is still our metonym for power; and fixed in 
shame, which is what the colored are expected to feel for e~bracing 
the power." Why, Liu asks, does assimilation have to entail 
ing out the marks of a darker, dirtier past?" 

"Asian American" is a relatively new term, having come into 
use only within the past thirty years. While Liu believes for many, 
a community constitutes a "bulwark 
bigotry,, he 
help but dislike the phrase. He finds it "contrived and, in a more 
profound way, unnecessary." 

It's a one-size-fits-all existence, 
brought into being by a group of vocal collegiate California 
"Orientals." Prior to the Asian American, there was the Chinese 
American, the Japanese American, the Korean American, and oth-
ers 
all of which have been "thrown . . . into the same great bub-
bling cauldron" to create the Asian 
. 
never mind the lack 
of cultural ties. -"The creators of Asian America 
that racial 
nationalism is the most meaningful way of claiming 
life," 
Liu writes. He finds this idea both exciting and frightening. While 
the Asian American community has delineated America's potential 
to be a synthesis of cultures, in doing so, it may be guilty of 
"defer[ring] the greater task of confronting 
life." He 
hopes it is " something useful, something to outgrow." 

· 
Through Amnican ~man's fictional Jenny Shimada, through 
the flesh-and-bone Eric Liu in all his unobtrusive second~riera-
tion glory, and through these unique renderings of the 
American as more than a target of prej~ce, these 
works with which the reader can easily identify, believable not in 
spite of their refi•sal to play up prejudice, but precisely 
~ of 
it, and their · · · 
to address it 
Rachel Khong is a foslmwn in 
37 


**Title: Swi Q sa tav S4r4b Ldsaow**
**Author: Sarah Las/tow**
**Page number(s): 38**

"T;e first thing I'm going to say is that Ellen and Rob are not 
our real names," says Ellen Kay, of herself and her husband. 
"No one knows about this ... the only people who know are 
other swingers. Most of our friends don't even know." 

Ellen and Rob's "Total Eclipse" website, a guide to being sexu-
ally adventurous in Connecticut, defines swingers as "people who, 
usually as a couple, enjoy the sexual company of others couples in 
the bedroom." But a definition cannot nearly capture the essence of 
the swinger lifestyle. Swingers' sex lives proudly extend into realms 
and positions most people risk only in their minds. They act out the 
fantasies, or nightmares, of the rest of us: These people do have 
threesomes and do enjoy it. And if Ellen and Rob's dream does 
come true, there may be a club for swingers right here in New 
Haven. 

The point of swinging, according to Ellen, is "sexual enhance-
ment, like a sex toy or a porno that is real." Those who 
participate are generally in their thirties, secure in 
their marriages, but looking for a way to branch 
out. Total Eclipse warns potential swingers that 
sexual partners most likely will not become 
close friends. As Rob bluntly purs it, "It's 
unpretentious. Most swingers just want to 
fuck. They don't want best friends or golfing 
buddies." Swingers have outSide lives, includ-
ing kids, regular jobs, and non-swinging friends. 

The swap from daily life to swinging involves 
more than just stripping and jumping into bed. Ellen likes 
to meet and talk to other couples before the clothes hit 
the floor-it makes her feel more comfortable. Ellen 
and Rob also have one couple with whom they regu-
larly partner swap. Through Total Eclipse, they now 
arrange parties, first screening the participantS, through 
onllne profiles, pictures, and information that party-goers send in 
advance. Their next parry, scheduled for the end of February, is 
already booked. Who got rejected? "Well ... when you're married 
and all you want is a fantastic sexual experience with [a person], you 
don't want them to be 300 pounds," Ellen admitS. "I am very, very 
fussy-I don't want anyone who's crazy, old, ugly .... " Essentially, 
Ellen would like to swing with people like her. 

She and Rob fumbled through unremarkable upbringings in 
the same Connecticut town. They were vaguely aware of each other 
as members of mutually prominent families, meeting occasionally 
at church functions and local political eventS. When Ellen came 
home from college, they crept into each other's lives. Despite an 
eleven year age difference, their friendship soon led to dating which 
became serious dating. Five months ago they married. And now 
they are starting to fool around with plans to start their own busi-
ness and to have children. They began, in many ways, as a typical 
couple, preparing for a quiet life. Since they started swinging, how-
ever, this humdrum existence has fallen by the wayside. 

Now, the excitement of their lifestyle is underlined by the risk 
of exposure. The couple fears that if people in Rob's hometown 
found out about his swinging, his family's business could suffer. The 
possibility "certainly worries us-there's always the risk, but, if we 
meet anyone we know at a club, they don't have anything on us that 
we don't have on them," says Ellen. If anyone from their public life 
ever found out, they would just "deal with it and move on." 

"We're not ashamed of what we do," Ellen said, "but others 
don't understand, and we can't make them more open-minded." 

Most swingers confine their activities to the privacy of the bed-
room, but some, like Ellen and Rob, have found 
a way to mix business with pleasure. Their entre-
preneurial goals have transformed them from 
people who experiment privately to people who 
run ads sandwiched between strip dubs and sex 
videos in the giggle-worthy back pages of the 
New Haven Advocau and who now have even larger aspira-
tions: a "nice, dean dub" for swingers. 

While Ellen and Rob are excited about the success of 
their first parties, they are even more thrilled at the prospect 
· of opening their dub in New Haven or another nearby city. 
They envision a multi-floor.,...enue--one level with a dance 
floor, a OJ, and quieter rooms with tables and chairs for hang-
ing out and talking, while upstairs, patrons will find "rooms in 
which to swing." Some clubs for swingers already exist, but Total 
Eclipse is taking a new approach: "Mostly swinging is for couples, 
but we're trying to get· singles involved," Ellen explained. 

Organizers of swinging discriminate heavily against single men, 
while courting single, especially bi-sexual women. The supply of the 
first radically outstrips the latter, but Ellen and Rob would like to 
find ways to integrate both. "We want to give single men a place to 
go," said Ellen. Part of their drive to bring those on the outskirts to 
the swinger community comes from "one of our little fantasies" -a 
· threesome of Rob, Ellen, and another man. With their own dub, 
they could invite the people they want to get to know. 

If their dub does open in New Haven, would they consider 
hosting a party for college students? "It's definitely a& option ... 
although Rob and I might sit that one out ... " 

Perhaps someday soon Total Eclipse will mount some compe-
tition for Toad's, giving new meaning to the term "booty cam." 
Until then, the rest of us can only finger the edges of what goes on 
in Ellen and Rob' s bedroom. 
Sarah Las/tow, a sophomo" in Davenport Collegt. 
is on tht staff ofTNJ· 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


**Title: None**
**Author: None**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Tr 
~· 
~ 
IT "\ 
TYCO 
The "Original" Copy Center 
(jli ORlG\~t' 
Do you have your old 
documents all boxea up but 
nowhere to store them? 
How about scanning 
and 
· 
storing them to disk? 
Ju.M: 
Or\£/ 
Loolv! 
TYCO can scan and save your documents onto disk 
in small, manageable file sizes for easy access. 
r 
./ easy to locate and share documents 
./ free up office space - work more efficiently 
./ easy to transport 
./ documents kept confidential 
./ we can even scan x-rays! 
Your documents are saved in universal, easy to 
retrieve formats and can be stored onto a variety of 
storage media. High volume discounts available. Free 
pfck-up and delivery. 
Call TYCO for details. 
Ask for Ellie, Mike or Don. 
,.. 
203-562-9723 
www.tycocopy.com 

