Publication date: September 19, 1981
Volume: [Volume not specified]
Issue number: 4


**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Ed Bennett
- Editor-in-Chief: Andy Court
- Designer: Geoffry Fried
- Associate Publisher: Jeff Foster
- Photo Editor: Sam Wilkins
- Staff: Jane Hinson, Paul Hofheinz, Walter Jacob, Geoff Pope, Eddie Phillips, Julie O'Neill, Betsy Kolbert


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Comment: Music campus; student aid
- DOD Funding and Yale Research
- Charles Black: Portrait of the Law Professor as Artist
- Henley: The Greatest Show in Rowing
- The But Seriously Folks in Hollywood


**Title: Comment: Music campus; student aid**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**
...


**Title: DOD Funding and Yale Research**
**Page number(s): 8**


**Title: Charles Black: Portrait of the Law Professor as Artist**
**Page number(s): 14**


**Title: Henley: The Greatest Show in Rowing**
**Page number(s): 19**


**Title: The But Seriously Folks in Hollywood**
**Page number(s): 24**



**What's ahead for student aid?**
**Author: Betsy Kolbm**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
With the federal budget signed into law, 
it is now clear that many students will 
not be able to obtain financial aid from 
the government next year. What re-
mains to be seen is how the cuts in aid 
will affect students and universities. 

Over the summer, Congress ap-
proved substantial reductions in two 
major federal aid programs, Guaran-
teed Student Loans, (GSL's) and Pell 
Grants. Approximately 25 per cent of 
the 6,000 Yale students expected to t~e 
out GSL's this year will be ineligible for 
future loans, 
said Donald Routh, 
University Financial Aid Director. If 
your family income is over $30,000, 
you will not receive further GSL's 
unless you pass a "needs test." Criteria 
will include the cost of the college you 
attend and the number of siblings you 
have also enrolled in school. 

Recent estimates indicate that a stu-
dent at a public institution with no 
brothers or sisters in college will prob-
ably be ineligible for a GSL if his family 
earns between $30,000 and $45,000. 
The same student attending a high-
priced private school may be eligible 
with a family income up to $60,000. 
Families with two children attending 
costly private schools may qualify for 
partial loans despite incomes of over 
$100,000. 

In the Pell Grant program, at least 
100 of the more than 800 Yale students 
currently receiving the grants will lose 
them under the new requirements, the 
Financial Aid Office said. Pell Grants 
fonn the basis of federal financial aid 
packages. In the past you might have 
received a Pell Grant if your family in-
come did not exceed $25,000; now you 
can probably expect no money if your 
family earns over $19,000. 

Since most students already received 
fmancial aid for this year under the old 
rules, it is difficult to assess the full im-
pact of the cutbacks. "The key question 
is: will educational decisions change?" 
wd a lobbyist with the Consortium for 
Higher Educaiton. "At the Yale level, 
the answer is 'no."' 

Small private liberal 
arts and 
religious colleges with largely middle in-
come students and little endowments 
will probably "feel the brunt" of the cuts, 
said Dallas· Martin, executive director 
of the National Association of Student 
Financial Aid Administrators. More 
· and more students will opt for less ex-
pensive public universities, ·community, 
and junior colleges, he sai~. 

But somehow students will manage to 
fmd the money to cover high tuition 
costs at the nation's most prestigious 
universities, most experts agree. Some 
students may choose less expensive in-
stitutions over Yale because of the aid 
reductions, 
but "not a 
significant 
number," said Yale's Budget Director 
Janet Ackerman. 

Ultimately the question of whether or 
not students of all incomes can continue 
to attend Yale may rest with the univer-
sity and its decision to fill in the gaps left 
by the federal aid cuts. For example, 
the recently instituted five percent 
origination fee on all GSL's will mean 
that even students whose aid packages 
appear to meet their financial needs in 
full will fmd themselves short $50 to 
$100. It may not sound like a lot, Routh 
said, but it could be significant to 
students attending Yale under severe 
financial constraints. "$90 buys a 
semester's books." 

Yale's administration is committed to 
continuing to provide financial aid 
packages that leave students with no 
unaccounted-for 
costs, R outh said . 
Unless the university reverses its policy 
of admissions without regard to need, 
this commitment is likely to cost at least 
several hundred thousand additional 
dollars next year. Both R outh and 
Ackerman insist that there has been no 
talk of revising the admi~ions pro-
cedure; instead the financial aid office 
will request a higher level of funding for 
next year. "I am assuming they (the ad-
ministration) will make every effort to 
provide the money," said Routh. 

At this point it is unclear where the 
university will find the extra money for 
fmancial aid. "It's not that the issue isn't 
being thought about," said Ackerman, 
but policy decisions will not be made 
until the Budget Committee meets this 
fall. One option is simply to raise tui-
tion more than usual. "Tuition may go 
up a little more. Maybe next year's will 
be up an extra $100," said Routh. 

The Budget Committee may also 
choose to compensate for additional aid 
costs by cutting back on programs and 
faculty. Or it may decide to dip into 
Yale's endowment in order to provide 
bigger grants or new jobs for students. 
Questions of which programs should 
receive more money and which should 
be cut certainly are not new to the 
Budget Committee. But this year's 
financial aid cuts may force it to make 
some particularly tough decisions. 

Since the Middle Income Student 
Assistance Act of 1978, Congress has 
offered government aid to an increasing 
number of students. With this aid 
abruptly cut off, Yale may have to re-
examine priorities which were estab-
lished when government money flowed 
more freely. 

The Reagan Administration claims 
that the student aid cuts were designed 
not only to reduce federal expenditures, 
but also to renew emphasis on the 
"traditional" roles of parents and 
students in paying for higher education. 
Families may have to borrow more 
money under a variety of relatively high 
cost loan programs available to parents. 

Three years ago, Yale introduced its 
own Parent Loan Program (PLP) 
which offers annual loans of $2,000 
-$7,000 at 12 per cent interest. Budget 
Director Ackerman anticipates a rise in


**Music's new"home"**
**Author: Carol Lam**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

At first glance, the plans for a new 
music campus at Yale seem quite 
refreshing. Perhaps the most prevalent 
of the performing arts, music for years 
has been steadily growing at Yale 
without a proportional increase in new 
facilities. Deteriorating building condi-
tions are a major headache, but the 
real problem, Yale School of Music of-
ficials complain, is that music has no 
home; it is scattered throughout a 
number of buildings including Hen-
drie Hall, Stoeckel Hall, 140 Prospect 
Street, Sprague Hall, and 143 Elm 
Street. 

Now, after years of debate and fund-
raising, the university is beginning to 
construct a new "music campus" on the 
block bounded by Wall, College, Tem-
ple and Elm Streets. This year, the old 
Gothic undergraduate admissions buil-
ding will be converted into practice 
and teaching studios, while practice 
modules from the Prospect Street An-
nex will be moved to Hendrie Hall. In 
the next several years, the music school 
will build a new music library and 
recital hall. Then, determined to unite 
the hopelessly diverse architectural 
styles, the university will construct 
skylighted corridors linking all the 
music buildings. Music, at last, will 
have a home. 

But amidst the ensuing kudos and 
congratulations, there is something to 
be said for music's "homelessness"-
especially among Yale undergradu-
ates. From the rock band to the sym-
phony orchestra, the dormitory stereo 
to the electronic music studio, music 
penneates the width and breadth of 
Yale. Wherever it can, music grows 
and thrives, earning itself a reputation 
for hardiness by sprouting in the most 
unlikely places: college basements, 
cocktail parties- even 
in 
a 
little 
brownstone on Prospect Street, 
squeezed between the computer room 
and the engineering building. The om-
nipresence of music stands to suffer 
with the construction of the music 
campus. 

The roots of the new music campus 
can be traced back almost ten years to 
a time when public support for the arts 
was growing. Summer arts festivals 
were flourishing. New York's Lincoln 
Center for the Performing Arts, just 
over a decade old, was leading the way 
for the construction of the Kennedy 
Center in Washington, D.C., and 
Virginia's Wolftrap Park. Centralizing 
the performing arts was clearly the 
order of the day, as universities, public 
and private, were building their own 
monster arts complexes. 

Finally recognizing the need at Yale 
for relief from insufficient practice 
space, a cramped music library and 
makeshift rehearsal quarters, universi-
ty officials enlisted Cesar Pelli, dean of 
Yale's School of Architecture, to design 
new music facilities. He drafted plans 
for one massive building that would 
house almost all the activities of the 
Yale School of Music and the 
undergraduate music department. 

Yale's own arts monster-an impos-
ing, three-story glass building- would 
have consumed the Naples Pizza 
building and smacked its lips on the 
Silliman Annex for dessert. 

That original plan has now been 
abandoned in favor of a plan to 
renovate existing buildings, with sup-
plementary 
construction of small 
building connectors. The news is good. 
Even putting aside the issue of ar-
chitectural preservation, the prospect 
of an all-in-one music building was 
never very appealing. "Thomasjeffer-
son," notes architectural critic John 
Russell 
in the 
New York 
Times 
( 12/1 17 7), "very soon discarded the no-
tion that what he calls 'one immense 
building' could possibly make a good 
university." Russell himself adds, 
"What chills the blood in buildings of 
this sort is the all-of-a-pieceness-or, 
to be blunt, the totalitarian look." 



**Yale's Architectural Tug-of-War**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
Russell's term "the totalitarian look" 
could aptly be applied to Pelli's original 
design. But with the new music cam-
pus plan, said Project Designer Robert 
Charney, the "hodgepodge of architec-
tural styles" on the block will be saved. 
The plan preserves "sound buildings," 
and hence "the look of Yale," according 
to School of Music Dean Frank Tirro. 
Even the most drastic alterations-
relocating the admissions office and 
building a new music library-seem 
mild compared to the original proposal 
to construct one entirely new building. 
The new plan sits better with almost 
everybody, but it does nothing to 
remedy the fact that Yale's music com-
munity is alienating itself from the rest 
of the university. It would certainly not 
be the first time that architectural 
design and planning has sent shock 
waves shuddering throughout Yale's 
academic 
disciplines. 


Foremost 
m 
mind is the example set by Science 
Hill, a pretty spot atop Hillhouse 
Avenue where the natural sciences are 
grouped together. They now have 
ready access to each other- but, alas, 
to no one else. The resulting rift bet-
ween the sciences and the humanities 
has 
only 
accelerated 
an already 
noticeable drift at Yale away from the 
truly liberal education. Preprofessional 
specialization has reached a peak. Add 
to this the pressure exerted by graduate 
schools for their own building facilities, 
and the result is inevitable: Yale 
undergraduates are becoming a little 
more square and a little less well-
rounded. 


Not surprisingly. the School of 
Music is delighted with the plans for 
the new music campus. "One principal 
advantage," says Tirro, "is greater con-
tact between students and faculty. 
Another 
1s 
the convenience- if 
facilities are centrally located, there is 
an increase in their use." He is puzzled 
by the suggestion that a "music cam-
pus" might threaten, through increased 
specialization, Yale's traditionally in-
terwoven disciplines. "There are some 
people who subscribe to the virtue of 
[architectural] dispersion," he con-
cedes. "I don't think there's any real ad-
vantage to that in music. If you're 
dispersed there are people who never 
see each other." 


The spirit of centralized art lives on. 
Indeed, as things have tumbled and 
stumbled along now for almost a 
decade, it seems that the original plan 
for one large music building was aban-
doned for financial- not aesthetic-
reasons. 


The oil 
cr1s1s 
of the 
mid-1970s, according to Dean Tirro, 
"made that type of building not feasi-
ble" because of the prohibitive costs of 
heating it. Moreover, the initial capital 
outlay for the proposed music center 
would have been a hefty S7 .5 million, 
while current plans allow construction 
to proceed piecemeal, as funds trickle 
in. 


As Yale University evolves, it is 
caught again and again in an invisible 
tug-of-war between architectural 
"hodgepodge" and architectural 
specialization. Recent winners of the 
tug-of-war are Science Hill, the School 
of Organization and Management, 
and the Medical School. And it may be 
that they are the rightful winners. It 
lies beyond doubt that the School of 
Music needs-and deserves-far bet-
ter facilities than it has at present. But 
perhaps a moment of consideration-
or respect-should be paid to under-
graduates, who are gradually losing 
the relaxed interaction of disciplines 
that for so many generations has 
characterized a Yale education. 


The opinwns expresstd in thu stctwn art t.lwst 
of 1M indiuidual writers. The New journal 
wtlcomes Comment on Yalt and N~ Haom 
issues. Send proposals to P. 0 . &x 1704, 
N~ Haom, CT 06507 

**DOD funding and Yale research**
**Author: David Chappell**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

In a little room on the third floor of the 
Osborn Memorial Laboratory, Dr. 
Walter Tabachnick attends to forty 
cardboard containers that look like pint-
size cartons of generic ice cream. 
Tabachnick selects one from the rack 
and reveals that its top is covered by a 
screen; inside is not rum raisin, but four 
buzzing mosquitoes. The three raisins 
on the top are for the bugs to feed on. 
Tabachnick, a 34-year old pos.t-
doctoral fellow in the biology depart-
ment, wears aT-shirt and blue jeans to 
work. He still remembers the days 
when, as a graduate student at Rutgers, 
he protested against U.S. military 
policy during the Vietnam War. He 
recalls many occasions when someone 
would mention a professor's name at a 
rally. Someone else would jump up and 
shout, "Oh, him! He's getting DOD 
money!" The whole crowd would turn 
against the professor. "It was like the 
red scare," he says. 


Tabachnick's views about the 
military have not changed much since 
those days, but today the bill for those 
mosquitoes-and $29,000 of what it 
costs each year to experiment with 
them-is paid by the U.S. Army. His 
work is part of the Army's effort to leam 
about and control mosquito-transmitted 
viruses, an area of public health that the 
army has led for 85 years. 


Twenty-seven research projects in the 
Yale Faculty of Arts and Sciences were 
.funded by the Department of Defense 
last year. Though none of the work can 
be classified, and none of the professors 
design weapons, a handful of resear-
chers openly admit they could be laying 
the theoretical groundwork for new 
weapons technology such as high-power 
lasers and submarine tracking systems. 


How it works 
To get a DOD grant or contract, a pro-
fessor submits a proposal to the Army, 
the Navy, or the Air Force. DOD agen-
cies then provide grants to Yale for 
basic research, as does the National 
Science Foundation. 


Last year, the DOD awarded $3.6 
million to Yale for research, an 89 per 
cent increase over the previous year. 
That's a drop in the bucket compared to 
MIT, which received $154.6 million, 
but it puts Yale at number 186 of the 
top 500 prime military research and 
development contractors-above Cor-
nell, Princeton and Brown, as well as 
Lockheed Electronics, Ralston Purina 
and War Incorporated of Rockville, 
Maryland. 


The Medical School and SOM re-
ceive relativdy little DOD money, but 
the Faculty of Arts and Sciences gets 


about fourteen per cent of its research 
money from DOD grants. Without the 
DOD's support, Yale's research pro-
gram would "shut itself down," said 
Richard Chang, an Engineering and 
Applied Science professor working on 
three DOD projects. "The amount of 
research activity would drop so sig-
nificantly" that many distinguished pro-
fessors would have to leave Yale, he 
said. The University would also lose the 
portion of DOD money that helps pay 
its general expenses. Chang said 58 per-
cent of DOD money pays Yale's "in-
direct costs" such as equipment, elec-
tricity and heating. 


-Because a researcher's work may pro-
vide only a small piece of knowledge 
later applied by some other researcher, 
professors are often left in the dark 
about the specific military applications 
of their work. Professor Ira Bernstein, 
Silliman Master William Bennett received DOD funding for laser work in the 'sixties. 
for example, said his research in 
theoretical physics "has military applica-
tions, and that of course is why the 
DOD funds it. But those applications 
are classified." So classified, in fact, that 
Bernstein said he does not know what 
they are, and, he adds, "I prefer not to 
know." 


Buck Rogers-style contraptions 
Professor William Bennett has con-
sidered the implications of DOD fun-
ding. He has done gas laser research on 
DOD grants since 1962. 


The Pentagon's principal interest in 
~asers lies in three areas: space station 
weapons, which could shoot down 
missiles; isotope enrichment, which 
could make nuclear weapons produc-
tion cheaper; and target systems, which 
could guide "smart weapons." 


Bennett stressed that his work at Yale 
never had "any obvious military ap-
plication" in these areas, but he 
recognizes "an indirect applicability of 
the stuff." 


"The sort of research I have done and 
tend to do in this field certainly is in-
volved as a stepping stone in these 
things," he said. "It's not aimed mainly 
at targeting bombs or isotope enrich-
ment per se, although I did have some 
ideas along the line that were relevent to 
those problems.". 


The DOD didn't come up with the 
idea of ·laser weapons on its ow.n. In 
1959 a former Columbia colleague of 
Bennett's named Gerald Gould pur-
suaded the DOD that lasers might have 
useful applications in shooting down 
missiles, Bennett said. Bennett came to 
Yale in 1962, and when he did, _Yale 
became a beneficiary of the DOD's 
growing interest in lasers- to the tune 
of $150,000 to $200,000 a year. Ben-
Walter Tabachniclc conducting mosqur·to reseq.rch in his lah. 
nett's funding dropped in the mid-70s 
and was cut altogether two years ago, 
and though he expects the Air Force to 
approve his proposal for a grant to con-
tinue laser work this fall, it will pro-
bably be much smaller than in the early 
years. 


That does not mean the DOD has 
lost interest in lasers. In a recent report 
to Congress, the DOD asked for in-
creased funding of laser research. "A 
space laser race will be compelling to 
enter, to lead and to win," the report 
said. 


Bennett, however, refers to space 
lasers as "Buck Rogers-style contrap-
tions" that have little practical value as 
weapons. The overweening confidence 
the DOD appears to have in their abili-
ty to protect us from nuclear attack wor-
ries Bennett very much. He believes it 
could lead us to take excessive risks and 
neglect arms control efforts. 


He feels no more comfortable with 
the implications of laser isotope enrich-
ment. By using lasers to separate 
uranium or plutonium isotopes, nuclear 
weapons makers could cut their costs 
dramatically. Currently, the high cost 
of uranium enrichment is one of the few 
roadblocks preventing small powers 
from building nuclear arsenals. But if 
laser enrichment plans succeed, many 
more countries would be able to afford 
membership in the nuclear club. 


Yale researchers are in disagreement 
as to the strength of the DOD's in-
fluence over the work they do. While 
most interviewed defended their DOD 
contracts, saying the DOD never 
solicited their services, some say the 
DOD freely drops hints at scientific 
9 



**Title: What the DOD funds**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
What the DOD funds 
Much of the research conducted at Yale 
with DOD money seems to have little 
relation to war or weapons. All research 
at Yale is basic and unclassified. Results 
of DOD funded projects are published 
in scientific journals and are thus 
available to the general scientific com-
munity. 

Here is a sampler of some of the 
research being conducted at Yale with 
DOD funds. 

Artificial Intelligence 
Professor Roger Schank has been work-
ing on a particular computer program 
for over twelve years- one that could 
read and understand newspaper ar-
ticles, answer questions not explicitly 
cited in the text and, if necessary, 
translate it into ''pretty much any 
language you could ask for." Shank and 
his partner 
Steven Slade receive 
$340,000 from the Navy to conduct 
research to discover if computers could 
communicate with people in natural 
language. Slade said he and Schank got 
the money from the Navy because "the 
military has a great need for computer 
resources" to store their voluminous 
stock of information. "Natural language 
processing would make information 
more available and accessible to users," 
he said. 

Laser Beams 
R ichard Chang received $86,800 from 
the Air Force last year to develop a solid 
state laser that could be tuned to specific 
frequencies. Chang said his lasers do 
not have enough energy to blow up 
missles, nor could they be used to 
enrich isotopes for atomic weapons. But 
the Air Force is interested in his kind of 
research because it wishes to be in the 
forefront of all 
state-of-the-art 
technology, he said. The theoretical 
problems involved in making tunable 
lasers with solid state media are in-
teresting and important 
from an 
academic point of view, and successful 
work in the area could lead to applica-
tions in communications and other non-
military fields, Chang said. 

Mosquitos 
Walter Tabachnick, using a $29,712 
Army grant, supplies information to the 
Army's medical entomologists on 
genetic differences among mosquito 
varieties and how these differences af-
fect their ability to transmit diseases. 

· The Army, Tabachnick said, has no 
sinister aims in this work: "The people 
who I have met working with the Army 
at Fort Dietrich now-even though 
that's the old dirty tricks station-
they're doing very humanitarian things. 
"Fort Dietrich, Maryland," he ex-
plained, "is where the CIA was shut 
down several years ago. It's where they 
manufactured all these gimmicks to 
assassinate: . . . the 
~neil that was 
supposed to have leaked poison gas; 
boulinin in a Coke bottle. They're do-
ing very humanitarian things there 
now. It's been turned over and it's open-
ed up. They're working to develop vac-
cines." 

Electron Beams 
Ira Bernstein lays the theoretical 
groundwork for Jay Hirschfield's ap-
plied work on electron beams. They 
receive $72,517 for their research which 
has applications in communications and 
biomedical technology. It could also be 
instrumental some day in the develop-
ment of a controlled fusion reactor. 

Differences in human 
intelligence 
Robert Sternberg in the Psychology 
Department says the DOD did not pay 
him $97,626 to conjure up new techni-
ques of psychological warfare. Rather, 
he uses the money to study the causes 
and effects of the different levels of in-
telligence among individuals. The 
Navy could someday apply his findings 
to improve the learning potential of 
sailors but Sternberg said his work has 
just as much, if not more, relevance to 
improving the skills of underprivileged 
children or assistant professors at Yale. 

Game Theory 
Martin Shubik, economist in the 
Cowles foundation, has a $233,860 
grant with the Navy to carry on studies 
in his "Center for Competitive and 
Conflict Research." Shubik said his 
work applies to "general problems of 
stratetic analysis" in many kinds of con-
flict, military and non-military. Shubik 
and his associates at the center design 
what he calls "self-policing systems," 
games in which the players have dif-
ferent and often conflicting goals but in 
which their goals tend to make them 
obey the rules out of self interest. They 
hope to discover if it is possible to 
design systems in which it doesn't pay to 
. cheat. These scenarios could help the 
Navy devise incentive systems and 
determine the effectiveness of bargain 
bids and threats in different kinds of 
conflict. While most of this research has 
yet to be applied to specific problems, 
Shubik said he and his colleagues have 
answered some specific questions in the 
area of economic warfare. For instance, 
"Would another OPEC embargo dis-
rupt world financial markets?" and 
"Could we organize a counter-OPEC 
with, say, wheat?" The answer to ,both 
questions, Shubik said, is "probably not 
very effe<;tively." 
-D.C.


Submarine sounds 
Zornig's underwater acoustics project, 
although unclassified, has extensive ap-
plications in the Navy's antisubmarine 
warfare program. The program is one 
of the Navy's highest priorities, one to 
which it currently devotes $17 billion a 
year, 16 per cent of its total budget. 
Zornig's work, currently funded by the 
National Science 
Foundation, was 
funded in past years by the Navy and, 
according to Zomig, will be funded by 
the Navy again next year if the NSF 
cuts it or if Reagan cuts the NSF. (lbe 
NSF, 
incidentally, 
received $1.7 
million from the DOD last year.) 
Zomig's project supplies information 
on how sound bounces around on the 
irregular surfaces of the ocean, infor-
mation which could help locate sub-
marines. At least two other projects at 
Yale contribute to the antisubmarine 
warfare program. Peter Schultheiss' 
$54,000 Navy contract, -"Tracking a 
Moving Source with an Array of Im-
perfectly Known Configuration," 
enables him to determine the accuracy 
and potential accuracy of various 
underwater sonar systems. 

Franz 
Tuteur is working this year on a 
$27,000 Air Force grant. One of the ap-
plications of this work, Tuteur said, is 
the refinement of submarine tracking 
methods. Specifically, it would help 
isolate the sound made by a particular 
moving source, such as a submarine, 
from extraneous noise in the water. 

If successful, acoustic methods to pin-
point underwater sound sources would 
transform the Russian submarine fleet 
from a set of well-hidden missile bases 
into a set of targets that appear as so 
many broad sides ofbams in the water. 
Available antisubmarine weapons, cur-
rently useless without clear targets, 
could then make short work of the 
underwater leg of the Soviet triad. 

Zornig acknowledges such a develop-
ment might undermine peace by upset-
ting the mutual invulnerability of sub-
marines on which deterrence depends. 
But the Russians plan to develop an an-
tisubmarine capability too, Zornig said, 
and we wouldn't want to risk getting 
caught with our pants down. This view 
conflicts, 
however, with that of a 
February 1981 Scientific American article 
which concluded that the Russians do 
not have an antisubmarine capability 
and are not likely to develop one soon. 

Unlike Zornig, Schultheiss says the 
possible military applications of his 
work do not concern him very much. In 
addition to military uses, he points out, 
his work could have applications in the 
location of schools of fish and offshore 
oil deposits. "'ne does not stay out of 
basic research because of what someone 
might do with it," he said. 

No strings attached? 
No matter who funds basic research, 
there is no guarantee that the military 
will not use its discoveries for warlike 
purposes. "You don't have a choice bet-
ween pursuing knowledge that will do 
society more or less good. Any 
knowledge can be used or misused at 
will," said Derek DeSolla Price, Avalon 
Professor of the History of Science, who 
has long been concerned with science 
policy. He argues that we cannot object 
to DOD involvement in university 
research as long as the DOD refrains 
from making concrete demands in 
return for its support. 

'"If the DOD-or the KKK or the 
PLO for that matter-happen to be 
wise enough, or foolish enough, to give 
us money to pursue knowledge with no 
further strings attached, we should take 
it," he said. "On the other hand, if the 
DOD or anybody else wishes to con-
tract with us for the delivery of a 
valuable good, whether that good be a 
new death ray-or even advice, where 
it is valuable advice- then the answer is 
somewhere between a flat no and · a 
cautious statement about the freedom of 
the individual to sell his research." 

Yet the DOD , unlike the NSF, is not 
in the business of supporting science for 
science's sake. Under the Mansfield 
Amendment, passed in 1970, the DOD 
cannot fund any research that does not 
have "a direct and apparent relationship 
to a specific military function or opera-
tion." 

The nature of the military's goals 
raises political and ethical questions· 
about research and development. Bruce 
R ussett, political science professor and 
nuclear strategy expert, said antisub-
marine research has an extremely 
harmful potential. In a crisis situation a 
U.S. antisubmarine capability would be 
"worrisome as much for what it might 
scare the Russians into doing as what is 
might tempt us to do," he said. In terms 
of "crisis stability," Russett said the 
U.S. antisubmarine effort "could be one 
of the most destabilizing kinds of 
research going." 

Laser research has also been criti-
cized by academics. At the January 
1981 meeting of the American Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science, 
two physicists reported on the dangers 
of laser weapons and recommended that 
their development be stopped. 

R obert J . 
Lifton, 
professor of 
psychiatry at Yale Medical School, has 
done extensive research on the effects of 
nuclear war and written an award-
winning book on the survivors of 
H iroshima. H e says the threat of 
nuclear war is so great that researchers 
should refuse to do any work that could 
even remotely increase its chances. He 
cautions that justifying one's small role 
as a neutral one is dangerous contagion. 
"We delude ourselves to think our work 
is neutral," he said. 

Lifton urges scientists to reconsider 
the effects that their research could have 
on a politically unstable world. Resear-
chers, he says, "must consider the 
motives of the people who pay for their 
research and its possible consequences 
in the hands of those people." 

David Chappell, a history major in JE, is 
writing his smior essay on limited nuclear 
war. 


**Portrait of the law professor as artist**
**Author: Matt Hamel**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I give, for one must give before M goes; from "Short Form Will," a poem by Charles Black

The Law School class of 1981 finished its class dinner and prepared to hear speeches by Charles and Barbara Black, two professors. *By the time we got around to speaking," Charles Black recalled recently, "they were in high spirits in every sense of the word." Mrs. Black took the floor first and began to deliver a dry, serious, soporific discourse. Five sentences into her speech, her husband pulled a harmonica from his pocket and, to the delight of the students, broke into song. The well-orchestrated incident set the tone for the couple's address. "At one point we read some lines from Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, Black said. '"The students seemed to enjoy hearing me say things like 'poontang.'"


Acting is just one of the roles Charles Black plays. He is one of the foremost civil rights advocates of our time and one of the lawyers who worked on the historic desegregation case of Brown vs. Board of Education; he is also a painter, a poet, a student of Icelandic, a Sterling Law Professor, and a father. In his 25 years at Yale, he has written a shelf's worth of books, everything from a collection of poetry to an important book on the death penalty.


You'd expect someone like Black to have a cluttered office. He doesn't. His harmonica, for example, is in his bottom right-hand drawer. He plays a first-rate rendition of "Goodnight, Irene," and gives credit to Buck Green, *born and raised a slave, who still plays the harmonica through my mouth, having taught me when he was 75 years old and I was 10."


Surprisingly, it was music that led Black into the segregation fray in the 1950s. On October 12, 1931, he went with a "good old boy" from his Austin, Texas high school to a dance. The entertainment was "Louis Armstrong, King of Trumpet, and his Orchestra." Black knew nothing of jazz and did not recognize Armstrong's name. But for the first time, the 16 year-old Southern boy recognized a black man's genius.


Black's classmate, however, "shook his head . . . and pronounced the judgment of the time and place: 'After all, he's nothing but a God damn nigger!'"


Many years later, Black wrote about the incident in the Yale Law Review: "My good old boy did not await, perhaps fearing reply. He walked one way and I the other. Through many years now, I have felt that it was just then that I started walking toward the Brown case, where I belonged . . . Every person of decency in the South of those days must have had some doubts about racism, and I had mine even then -perhaps more than most others. But Louis opened my eyes wide and put me to a choice. Blacks, the saying went, were 'all right in their place.' What was the place of such a man, and of the people from which he sprung?


Black's early consuming interest in the plight of blacks did not immediately lead to his career in law. With a bachelor's degree in Greek and a master's degree in English literature, he was at a loss as to where to turn next. "What I can recall of my motivations at 25," he says, "is that I was convinced that my father would pay for me to attend law school and nothing else."


Although Black graduated from Yale Law School in 1943, he did not become profoundly interested in law until several years later, when the race problem began to surface and he began to see how the law could be used as a remedy. Black's first case, Swett vs. Painter, resulted in the admission of blacks to the University of Texas Law School and set him on his way.


Black said that his best civil rights work was for the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, but that his role in Brown vs. Board of Education is exaggerated. "In Brown vs. Board of Education, I was one of 30 lawyers. I played a very small part. Everywhere I go people blow my role out of proportion. It was a profoundly cooperative effort." Black suggested one reason his role is exaggerated: "I was the only white gentile and the only Southerner who was a lawyer.


"It was a great case and I'm delighted to have been in it. Twenty years later, when another of the lawyers and I were in the same room, there was a current of feeling between us. You're not going to meet that feeling twice in your life. Still, I was not a tactician in that case."


Black's job in the Brown case was to study how to implement the decision, explains Jack Greenberg, a long time friend and colleague of Black's and now the director of the NAACP Legal Defense Fund. "He was important to the civil rights fight then and in just a few years he became a central figure. He worked on briefs for many cases that ended up in the Supreme Court, and he was the author of not only the brief but of the idea in two of the most important cases we worked on, *Griffin vs. Maryland* and *Hamm vs. the City of Rock Hill, South Carolina*. " Black developed the so-called abatement argument, which invalidated the convictions of demonstrators jailed before the passage of the Civil Rights Act.


"'Charles Black is a giant of a legal thinker," Greenberg said. "There are only one or two others of whom I can say that. He is simply a monumental figure."


Twenty or thirty works of art-paintings, drawings, and sculpture-decorate Black's small office on the second floor of the Law School. They do not constitute clutter. Neatly arranged, abstracts hang harmoniously next to dreamlike landscapes and realistic portraits. A twenty-year-old doodle of Black's wife looks not at all out of place next to a colorful, lively abstract that may have taken weeks to finish.


"Most of my pictures I give away," he says in his gentlemanly Southern drawl. "My children have veto power over what I send to people. Most of these have been approved but not yet delivered.


"I paint because there is no law against art. I never stopped to consider why. For me it is just divine play, incredible fun." He was never trained as an artist and claims that he "can't draw at all" and is "unsuccessful." Yet his work is in demand; "The Admiralty Jurisdiction," a painting of a red and orange sun sinking below the ocean horizon, adorns the cover of *Owls Flying in Babylon*, the collection of his poems.


He is a much more serious poet than artist. "Poetry is where I live," he has said. Piles of poems sit neatly on a table in his office for law students to take. The poems are weighted by rocks. ("I love rocks; that the very same molecules have been in the same pattern for a billion years is a mind-boggling fact.")


Although Black studied poetry formally and did his master's thesis on Shelley as a translator of verse, he is a self-taught poet. His first collection, a thin volume that was two years in the making, is called *Telescopes and Islands* and came out in 1963. *Owls Flying in Babylon* was published last year. The 17 years that elapsed between his only two poetry collections must not be construed as a period of dormancy.


"I wrote about 800 poems between those two books," he said. His work is often published in literary and poetry journals for which he considers himself "extremely lucky. I send many poems to four or five magazines before they get printed. Some never get printed."


Not surprisingly, his talents in poetry are eclectic. Much of what he wrote between 1963 and 1980 he calls "light, frothy, personal, ephemeral, or just unpublishable," but the poems in *Owls Flying in Babylon* are much more reflective; they deal with such subjects as death, the forces of nature and fate.


Black admires Elliot and Pound, and said of Wallace Stevens, "I like his things but I have to confess I don't understand him very well. When I read Stevens, I get the feel of very fine poetry."


Drama is another of Black's passions, though not as consuming as art or poetry. In 1976 he decided that he would like to try his luck on the stage, so he called Robert Brustein, who was then in charge of the Yale Rep. Brustein put him in touch with the director of *Julius Caesar*, soon to show at the Rep. Black read for and earned the role of Cicero. "I had only seven and a half lines, but it was a great experience. I enjoyed it." In 1977 he understudied ten dinner guests in Henrik Ibsen's *The Wild Duck*, and portrayed five or six of them on stage.


His most recent foray into the world of drama was last spring, when he played Big Daddy in *Cat On a Hot Tin Roof*, a Theater Studies production that went up in Silliman. "That old southern character has many resonances with my life in the south," he said. "I'll be happy



**Charles Black: A Yale Professor's Reflections**
**Author: Matt Hamel**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
to act in the future, but I don't think I'll 
go looking for parts for a little while." 
Black has been spending increasing 
amounts of time studying Icelandic. 
His goal is to approach the rich Icelan-
dic sagas and the intricate legal system 
they describe "with a good understan-
ding of colloquial Icelandic." 
His interest in Iceland developed by 
chance. "R.F.L. is what the sociologists 
call it: Rabbit's Foot Luck. I wanted to 
visit someplace very, very cold, with 
de-e-e-ep snowdrifts. Iceland! What 
could be better! I bought plane tickets 
and began to read about the place." He 
discovered that Iceland has a temperate 
climate and hardly any deep snow 
drifts. "By the time I got that far I was 
interested in the tremendous system 
they have. Think of it: 230,000 people 
support a symphony, a theater, a 
modern hospital, an opera, an airline, a 
booming fishing industry, an entire 
government and judiciary, ... That's 
fewer people than live in Austin, Texas. 
They hold two jobs each, for the most 
part, and they're not just getting by, 
they're thriving!" 


Today Charles Black continues his civil 
rights efforts, writing and lecturing 
against capital punishment, which he 
calls "extremely racist." His book Capill.zl 
Punishmmt: The IMViU:lblity of Caprice and 
Mistahs (which he wrote in just three 
weeks) is the nearest thing that op-
ponents of the death penalty have to a 
Bible. 
'"There were 114 people on Death 
Row when I wrote the book," he said. 
'"That seemed like a lot. Today there are 
739. Why this hesitation to execute? It's 
a very strange thing. I see it as the prin-
ciple reaffirmed, the principle of not 
taking a human life. My book tries to 
show that capital punishment is fraught 
with error, even if you approve in 
theory of executing criminals. Which I 
do not." 
Black has avoided litigating capital 
punishment cases in favor of writing 
books and delivering lectures on the 
subject. "I wanted to avoid any risk of 
conflict of interest as long as I was 
writing. 
"' am in a trough right now in my 
legal writing. I am discouraged and 
bewildered by the situation in Wash-
ington and I don't quite know which 
direction to take or where to exert my 
efforts . . . I am totally reso!utely, and 
as a matter of lifelong conviction against 
everything 
that 
President 
Reagan 
stands for . . . I've been fighting the 
good fight for 34 years, though, so I 
guess I have a right to a little time off. • 
For the moment, teaching is more 


important to him than writing. His ma-
jor project last summer was a revision of 
the syllabus for his constitutional law 
course. "The impressive thing is that the 
students teach each other law. There is 
intimate and constant interaction at a 
school this small. Nobody makes an ap-
pointment with me. My door is open; if 
someone wants to chat, he comes right 
in. 
"I know how to work. I work hard. I 
live four minutes from here by Jeep and 
have a fine study. I enjoy the isolation 
of home. I don~t like to see visitors or 
take calls when I work, except for Yale 
law students. I want to talk to any Yale 
law student who wants to talk to me." 
Black considers himself "a fair pro-
fessor and a spotty lecturer," and the 
students in his lectures courses on con-
stitutional law and maritime law con-
cur. Students who have had him in 
seminars (he teaches two a term) say 
that he is much better in the informal, 
round-table format. 
On a shelf in Black's office sits a sad 
looking branch of a tree, made to look 
like a tree itself and adorned with over-
sized 
white baubles. 
David Black 
presented it to his father for Christmas 
many years ago, saying that he had 
made it himself. Like a good father, 
Black built a small showcase and placed 
it prominently in his office. 
"Of course, I had to build a showcase 
for the gift my daughter had given me, 
too, even though it didn't really need it." 
Her gift was an impression of her hands 
in clay, the kind everyone makes in 
kindergarten. "Years later I learned that 
David hadn't made the tree at all, but 
that his teacher had made it for him. I 
looked at the two showcases and 
reflected on how utterly unconnected 
are facts and love." 
Charles Black's mind is full of many 
ideas and of many different kinds of 
ideas, but they do not constitute clutter. 
Iceland and Ibsen, Pound and politics 
coexist harmoniously. He can drive a 
Jeep, read Greek, and play a harmonica 
with equal ease. He has spent his life 
sharing his ideas with others. Still, he 
has his regrets. 
"Everybody has loads of regrets. You 
never do as much as you like to or as 
much for people as you like to. I've cer-
tainly learned one thing from exper-
ience that I wish I had known much 
earlier. I regret things I didn't give 
away, but not a single thing I did give 
away." 
Mmt Hamel, a senior inJE, is sports editor 
cifThe Yale Daily News. 


**Title: The greatest show in rowing**
**Author: Sam Wilkins**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
~ The greatest show in rowing 
Sam Wilkins 
In every sport there is one event, one 
competition, which becomes synon-
ymous with excellence. Wimbledon 
means great tennis. Cyclists speak of 
the Tour de France with reverence· and 
awe. And in rowing, Britain's Henley 
Royal Regatta has no equal. 

Henley is not the largest regatta in 
the world; Boston's Head of the Charles 
is bigger. Nor is Henley the oldest; the 
Oxford-Cambridge Boat Race pre-
dates Henley by ten years. Nor is· 
Henley even the most competitive; 
Olympic and World Championship 
fields are far stronger. But for rowing 
enthusiasts, Henley is written in gilt 
script on the clouds because, where 
Yale~ ligh1weigh1 crew practicing at Henley. 
tradition, character and prec1s1on are 
concerned, no other boat race and few 
other sporting events even come close. 

Henley is an unforgettable experience, 
more intoxicating than the bitters and 
stouts served in the public houses that 
dot the surrounding English coun-
tryside. Henley is not the oldest or the 
largest or the toughest regatta. It is 
simply the finest. 

The town of Henley-on-Thames 
hides in a small valley in the pictures-
que Chiltern hills about 30 miles west of 
London. The road from London to Ox-
ford descends out of a cool thick forest 
into the valley and across the River 
Thames. 

The town sits patiently on the west 
side of a thirteenth century bridge, 
waiting for the one week in early July 
when the tranquility of everyday life is 
shattered by the arrival of rowers who 
have come from around the world to do 
battle on the Henley Reach and thou-
sands of spectators who have come to 
observe the fray. 

The Henley course.is nothing short of 
flawless. Just above the Henley bridge 
is the longest straight stretch of water 
anywhere on the Thames, a mile-and-
one-half expanse of river that flows 
northeast from Henley before turning 
east to Windsor and London. At the top 
of this Henley Reach, as it is known, is


A bird's-eye view of 1M H mley course. 
a small island on which rests a white 
marble medieval temple that is just 
barely visible from the bridge. The star-
ting line for Henley is just beyond the 
island, and ra~ progress one mile, 550 
yards (a distance unique to Henley and 
longer than the standard courses) 
upstream to a fmish a few hundred 
yards before the bridge. Crews race 
one-on-one up a narrow course lined 
with booms and freshly-painted marker 
posts, along pastures at first, then along 
farms and manors, and then finally in 
front of the main viewing enclosures as 
the duU roar of the crowd builds to a 
crescendo at the finish. The P .A. at 
Henley booms out times to places like 
"The Barrier" (a fence near an old abbey 
one-quarter of the way down the 
course) and •Fawley" (a manor house 
roughly halfway). This is part of the 
magic of H enley- it even has a lan-
guage all its own. Barrier, Fawley, 
Remenham Club, Phyllis Court Cro-
quet Club, Leander. 

AU racing is single elimination. If you 
win, you earn the right to face another 
crew on the next day. If you lose, you 
hit the pubs and enclosures to drown 
your sorrows in a big cup of PIMM's 
I 1. Th«; Stewards who run the race sent 
out a questionnaire in the early 1970s to 
representative crews from seventeen 
foreign countries, asking for possible 
changes in the format. Perhaps a double 
elimination or repechage system would 
be more appropriate, the Stewards sug-
gested. The seventeen forms were all 
returned blank. The message-leave 
H enley as it is, a one-of-a-kind racing 
experience. 

There are not any formal restrictions as 
to who may or may not enter at Henley. 
But since the Regatta is an international 
showcase for rowing and commands 
such respect in the sport, the application 
process 
i~ virtually self-regulating. 

M ediocre and less-than mediocre crews 
usually choose not to compete at 
H enley so as to spare themselves the 
embarrassment of losing by curvature 
of the earth in the opening round. 

Yale abides by this unspoken rule, 
allowing only its finest crews to go to 
H enley. But in 1981 this was no small 
contingent since Yale had, overall, the 
most successful college crew program in 
the country. The Yale team at Henley 
consisted of 40 oarsmen and their 
coaches, and Yale had entries in five of 
the Regatta's fourteen events. 

No crew deserved to be at Henley 
more than Yale's varsity heavyweight 
crew. Following a second-place finish in 
the San Diego Crew Classic, a pre-
season event for Yale, the varsity 
heavies finished the regular season un-
touched. They won the Eastern Sprints 
Title and assured themselves a place m 
Yale rowing history by becoming the 
first Eli varsity heavyweight boat in 18 
years to defeat Harvard in the armual 
and legendary four-mile race at Gale's 
Ferry in New London, CT. Henley was 
the natural next step. 

Yale's lightweight and heavyweight 
junior 
varsities 
had equally good 
reasons for going to Henley. The JV 
lights went undefeated, winning both 
the H -Y-P Regatta and the Eastern 
Championships for the first time since 
1953. Their win at the Easterns broke a 
14-year Harvard stranglehold on theJV 
lightweight Eastern crown. The JV 
heavies were also undefeated though 
disqualified at the Eastern Champion-
ships in a highly controversial ruling. 

Revenge for the disqualification came 
two weeks later when the crew an-
nihilated Harvard over three miles at 
Gales Ferry, winning by some five 
lengths of open water. 

The Yale heavyweightJV returned to 
Henley as in the Ladies Challenge 
Plate, trying for a second successful 
defense of that title. But the lightweights 
had gone to Henley only once since 
1953. 

This year's Henley was not only an 
important one for Yale. For the first 
time since the races began in 1837, 
women rowed the Henley course. The 
Stewards of the Regatta, a group of for-
ty men whose duty it is to preserve the 
traditions and uphold the integrity of 
the race, had previously decreed that 
•events for ladies are not in the best in-
terest of the Regatta.• The World 
Championships include women, the 
Olympics include women, but Henley 
has confmed ladies to the Stewards' 
Viewing Enclosure. 

The restrictions on women's rowing 
finally 
became 
too 
uncomfortably 
anachronistic even for a 
tradition-
conscious group like the Stewards, and 
this year, on an experimen tal basis, 
events for women were included. T he 
fLrSt women's crews to paddle past the 
grandstand in the Stewards' Enclosure 
on their way to the starting line drew 
titters and whispered comments from 
the ladies and gentlemen on shore. But 
when those same crews turned and 
raced upriver with style and power, the 
titters and whispers died in the throats 
of skeptics, and were replaced by the


**Henley Regatta 1981**
**Author: Sam Wilkins ('81)**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A longtime jan loolcs on. 
shouts of "Well rowed!" and "Jolly 
good!" that traditionally accompany the 
races. The first women to cross the 
finish line were Julia and Charlotte 
Geer, two sisters from Dartmouth who 
won their heat of the Double Sculls 
event. Though they would lose in the 
finals to a Canadian crew, the Geers 
had earned themselves a spot in history, 
for when their first heat ended, so did 
141 years of all-male rowing at Henley. 
It is Thursday July 2, 1981. The 
flagpole attendant glances nervously at 
his watch. Ten seconds before nine 
a.m. This is the first of the four days of 
Henley, and the affair is about to begin 
with characteristic precision. 

Nine 
o'clock, and the flagmen hoists the 
Union jack up the main flagpole in the 
Stewards' Enclosure. 
The Queen's 
Grenadier Guards strike up "Rule 
Britannia," and as the song ends, the 
P.A. crackles to life with progress 
reports from the first of the day's eighty 
races. Bentham Rowing Club of Lon-
don wins 
its heat of the 
Ladies 
Challenge Plate by default. Its oppo-
nent, the University of Natal from 
South Africa, has been disqualified for 
being two minutes late to the starting 
line. Thousands of miles travelled, the 
coxswain loses track of time, and the 
crew is disqualified. Ruthless precision, 
but necessary if all the races are to be 
squeezed in between a lunch hour, a tea 
hour and "God Save the Queen" at 7:30 
p.m. 

The lords and ladies and the well-to-
do swirl through the four days of the 
Regatta in the glossy fashion show 
known as the Stewards' Viewing 
Enclosure. Former oarsmen line the 
banks looking silly in gaudy blazers and 
school caps. Punts and small row boats 
line the booms of the race course to get 
a more intimate view of the competi-
tion. Vendors hawk the official pro-
grams, which are hurriedly printed in 
the wee hours of the morning to include 
all results and the next days schedule of 
races. 

This year, as in all others, there are 
surprises, big surprises. Yale's varsity 
heavyweight eight was looking forward 
to a rematch aginst the University of 
Washington, the crew they lost to in the 
San Diego Crew Classic. But the 
heavyweights fell victim in the first 
round of the Grand Challenge Cup to a 
strong Oxford crew. "Home Crews 
Triumph, • the Daily Tekgram pro-
claimed. 

Yale'sJV lightweight boat won easily 
in its first Thames Cup heat, but was 
outgunned in the next round by a larger 
and stronger British crew. Because 
there are no lightweight events at 
Henley, Yale's JV was up against 
heavyweight competition. The race that 
eliminated Yale was upstream into a 
headwind against a substantially bigger 
crew, and though the Elis held on for 
nearly a mile, the size advantage of the 
other crew allowed it to pull away in the 
last 500 yards. 

For a while, it looked as though 
Yale's heavyweight JV would be suc-
cessful in its Ladies Challenge Plate 
defense. But disaster struck in Sunday's 
final 
against 
the University of 
Washington's JV heavyweights. Yale 
had built up a three-quarters length 
lead by Fawley, but seconds later the 
bow man of the Yale boat was rendered 
ineffective when his seat broke and 
jammed. The Huskies caught up and 
moved ahead, and though Yale gallant-
ly challenged, the equipment failure 
proved too big an obstacle. Washington 
won by a half-length. 

The climax of the Regatta came just 
before tea on Sunday when the Oxford 
boat which had beaten Yale lined up 
against a boat from Leander and 
Tyrian Boat Clubs. Though it sounds 
like an ordinary race, all in attendance 
knew better. It was no ordinary Oxford 
boat. Five of the eight were from the 
Oxford crew that had easily defeated 
Cambridge earlier in the year. The 
other three oarsmen were members of 
England's siver medal-winning Olym-
pic Eight. But the Leander and Tyrian 
boat was even more formidable; this 
was the British National Heavyweight 
Crew, supposedly the best heavy-
weights in England, rowing under the 
colors of Leander and Tyrian. One 
could sense that a classic battle was at 
hand. The band fell silent, the careless 
banter subsided and spectators lined the 
banks of the Thames dozens deep as the 
grand Challenge began. 

After a furious start, Leander and 
Tyrian edged ahead, taking almost a 
third of a length by Fawley. The crowd 
rooted 
for 
Oxford, 
a 
primarily-
university crew with three Olympians 
that was up against a composite crew of 
Britain's best. A shame, a pity, "Nice 
try, Oxford!" the crowd said as Oxford 
lagged. But the magic of Henley 
asserted itself once again. Though ex-
hausted and behind, Oxford raised its 
pace, spurted and drew even. Coming 
into the view of the enclosures, Oxford 
had kept up the same torrid pace and 
had a third of a length on Leander and 
Tyrian. The national team tried to 
move back, but Oxford responded by 
sprinting even harder. At the win post, 
Oxford was half a length ahead, and the 
race fans were almost knocking each 
other into the river in excitement. 

Twenty-four hours later, on the same 
sight, scores of workmen were dissem-
bling the grandstands and enclosures so 
full of life a day before. The townsfolk 
of Henley breathed a collective sigh of 
relief, but were also proud of the fact 
that the greatest show in rowing had 
been held in their tiny community. It 
had been grandiose, thrilling, stylish, 
traditional and unforgettable. It had 
been, in other words, just another 
Henley. 

Sam Wilkins ('81) is a Jormn sports tditor of 
The Yale Daily Newsandwasa member of 
the lightweiglu crew team tJuu rowed aJ 


**But Seriously Folks in Hollywood**
**Author: M. Check Owens**
**Page number(s): 24**

Kaplan 
Mike Kaplan and John Levenstein, the 
writers of the But Seriously Folks com-
edy revues, sat in Fitzwilly's last April, 
one month before their graduation. 
After producing five original comedy 
shows in the Silliman Dramatic Attic, 
and a two-act play in the Yale Dramat, 
the writers now planned to take six ac-
tors and a collection of their best 
material to a small west Hollywood· 
theater they rented for the summer. 
They said they were concerned about 
making the transition from college au-
diences to audiences in the real world. 
"We're kind of worried," Levenstein 
said. 

"I'm worried. I'm damned worried," 
Kaplan said. •aut I try to placate myself 
by saying I'm going to have a lot of fun 
this summer, which will be true. But 
I'm worried." 

Kaplan explained the purpose of the 
venture: "Basically there are people in 
L.A. and it's their job to look for talent 
and come see shows like this. And 
possibly someone's going to spot one of 
our performers or see our writing and 
figure that there's potential there and 
that they want to work with it. 

•u things don't go well by July," he 
joked, "we may be doing Wild Duck or 
something. But for the time being we 
intend to do comedy revues until the 
end of the summer." 

And after the summer? 
"Word processing." 

It's now five months since Kaplan 
and Levenstein sat in Fitzwilly's. They 
didn't end up word processing or per-
forming Wild Duck. Their show- Con-
uno for Stool and Bmch- ran for ten 
weekends in Hollywood. The Los Angeles 
Times called it "some of the best comedy 
revue writing we've seen in some 
seasons." 

"Careerwise, it really got me and 
Mike more than we could have ex-
pected," Levenstein said. The William 
Morris Agency signed them on as a 
writing team and Levenstein on as an 
actor. They've been meeting with pro-
ducers and discussing ideas, Kaplan 
said. Home Box Office has expressed 
interest in getting them to write for a 
new comedy show entitled "That Was 
the Month That Was." 

Levenstein, who peforms extensively 
in But Seriously Folks revues, was cast 
in the movie Cadds, a low-budget com-
edy about a military academy. Levens-
tein said he plays an •asshole cadet com-
mander. It's a good role in what pro-
mises to be a dumb movie." 

Kaplan and Levenstein first met at a 
Los Angeles Alumni Association get-
together for new Yalies. Surprisingly, 
they discussed starting a comedy troup 
at Yale at this first meeting. Even more 
surprising, they pulled it off. 

The show they performed in Los 
Angeles was a compilation of material 
from most of their previous revues. One 
skit, "America: An Intimate Docu-
mentary," provides 
survey of 
American history 
in 8 
minutes. 

Another, "Joke, Right?" is "a game 
show which 
matches completely 
humorless people against professional 
comedians." In another, Truman, At-
tlee, and Stalin have an encounter ses-
sion at Potsdam. 

They performed the show four nights 
a week, Thursday through Sunday, at 
the Shepard Theater Workshop on San-
ta Monica Boulevard in west Holly-
wood. Kaplan, Levenstein, and pro-
ducer Mark Rosenblatt ('81) rented the 
theater for about $2,000 each, almost all 
the money they had in the world. "I sold 
my baseball cards," Kaplan claimed. 

The Shepard is "small, charming, and 
seedy," as Kaplan put it. It was chosen 
for its run-down storefront look which is 
really very appropriate for the But 
Seriously Folks' visually-spare humor. 

The Shepard has ants in the bathroom, 
and, to make things lively, forty-nine 
seats from a defunct Elk's Club. The 
Elk's rows, not being attached to much 
of anything, offered new meaning to 
audience rapture; when the crowd rol-
licked, the seats teetered precariously. 

Six actors from Yale came west with 
Kaplan and Levenstein. Miguel-Angel 
Centeno ('80), Paul Frellick ('82), 
Michelle Granieri ('82), George Roth 
('82), and Lisa Willner ('81) had ap-
peared in the troupe's Yale shows, but 
Wallace Johnson ('82) was a new addi-
tion. All the actors volunteered their 
time, and the three investors had no ex-
pectations of making any profit. During 
the day, the But Seriously Folks worked 
as movie ushers, a secretary, a hospital 
orderly, and an executive for a market 
research firm. On performance nights, 
they arrived at the theater, turned on 
the popcorn machine, and stirred the 
lemonade for the evening's crowd. They 
painted the theater's marquis them-
selves, and producer Rosenblatt served 
as a one-man production crew. 

On opening night, Kaplan said, the 
house was packed and the audience en-
thusiastic. "For one night we felt like the 
darlings of Hollywood. Opening night 
got expectations way up. It made it dif-
ficult for the rest of the summer as 
things slowed down." 

The Los Angeles audiences were dif-
ferent from the college audiences, 
Levenstein said. "It was rare that 
something went over as well with nor-
mal people as it did with students." But 
the show certainly went over well with 
the L.A. Times critic who wrote, "They 
are contemporary in the freshest sense, 
highly literate and incisive .... " Var-
iety said the show "bulges with snap and 
sparkle and promise." 

The L.A. Weekly, however, didn't like 
what it saw: "This group is young, just 
out of their orthodontia, decent, ener-
getic, and entirely unbrilliant . . . It's 
all too clean-cut with not enough talent 
to match the toothpaste." Said Kaplan 
about the review, "I loved it. This was 
the first time we had ever moved 
someone to really hate us." 

The L.A. Times review by itself 
brought in decent-size audiences for 
most of the summer. They averaged 
about 30 people for each performance, 
Levenstein said. But "towards the end 
(of the summer] there wasn't quite as 
much spark to the show," he said. 

Originally, they plarmed to do a new 
revue in the middle of the summer but 
none of them had the time for rehear-
sals. 

They decided to close on Aug. 17, a 
week earlier than plarmed. Kaplan and 
Levenstein now have time to work on 
their first screenplay. "It's sort of an 
'1-hate-kids' movie,'" Levenstein said, 
but refused to divulge any of the jokes. 

M tchek Owens contrihuJed 1D this story 
from Los Angeles. 

