Publication date: 1998
Volume: [Volume number not specified]
Issue number: [Issue number not specified]

**MASTHEAD:**
- **Publisher:** Justin Saclu
- **Editor-in-Chief:** Jamie Rutkow
- **Managing Editors:** Daniel Kellun, Jimira Winter
- **Designer:** Hirshilush Hirway
- **Production Manager:** David Slifof
- **Business Manager:** Julia Lee
- **Acting Photography Editor:** Heidi Vogt
- **Alumni Editor:** John Bullitt
- **Accounts Manager:** Nitin Manglam
- **Associate Editor:** Eli J. Glintisch
- **Research Directors:** Michael Gerber, Andrew Young
- **Circulation and Subscriptions Managers:** Jim Champagne, Ronen Givony
- **Staff:** Vanasa Apte-Jones • Jan Becher • Jo Colsky • Jason D'Cruz • Monica Elam • Greg Vovos • Li Li Wang • Jada Yuan
- **Members:** Emily Balon • Constance Demers • Peter B. Cooper • Tom Grigg • Brooks Kelley • Henry Schwab • Elizabeth Skewes • Gabriel Snyder • Fred Sortor • Thomas Strong
- **Alumni:** Richard Blow • Jay Carney • Richard Conniff • Rush Conniff • Elisha Cooper • Lauren Rabin • Susan Weisman • David Yazin
- **Faculty:** Sue B. Bass • Aaron M. Batd, Jr. • Blair Brandon • Edward B. Bennett, Jr. • Edward B. Bennett III • Paul S. Bennett • Gerald Bruck • Barbara Burrell • Jay Carney • Daphne Du • Josh Civin • Jonathan M. Clark • Constance Clark • Elisha Cooper • Peter B. Cooper • Andy Cowan • Jerry and Rox Cowan • Maura Denison • Albert J. Fox • Mitchell Howard Fox • David Frankel • Gregory Freed • Arturo Gandara • Sherwin Goldwasser • David Greenberg • Tom Grigg • Stephen Hedeman • Jane Kaminsky • Brooks Kelley • Roger K. Lewis • Andrew J. Kumins, Jr. • L.E. Lehrman • J. L. E. Noblet • J.L. E. Noblet • H. Luke Manolopoulos • Manuel E. Neith • Paul Neoll • Howard H. Newman • Stan O'Brien • Julie Pann • Leland J. Pann • Josh Pannu • Lew Pane • Burton Rubin • Fairleigh Randall • Rollie • Matt Rindfuss • Theodosia X. Roopchand • Stuart Rosett • Mona and Arthur • DiDi and Robert San • Richard Shiddel • W. Hampton Siddall • Lisa Simon • Eduardo and Wolfram Skewes • Thomas Sorrentino • Jonathan Tar • Al and Betty Toriello • Mark Twombly • Allen and Sarah Wardell • Daniel Yergin and Angela Starr Yergin


**Title: Media Saturation or Bust**
**Author: Darby Saxbe**
**Page number(s): 8**

A chat with Debbie Stoller, Yale Ph.D recipient and outspoken founder of feminist zine Bust.


**Title: Closing Time**
**Author: Eli J. Glintisch**
**Page number(s): 12**

Students are troubled by recent police crackdowns on parties serving alcohol but what seems like the new prohibition may just be a beginning-of-the-year formality.


**Title: This Old House**
**Author: Ben Smith**
**Page number(s): 16**

Why has the New Haven Preservation Society's agreement with Yale allowed an historical house to be torn down for a parking lot?


**Title: Family Portrait**
**Author: Michael Braun**
**Page number(s): 22**

Photographs show how a debilitating disease casts a shadow over a family's relationship.


**Title: Between the Vines: The Futures Market**
**Author: Daniel Brook**
**Page number(s): 26**


**Title: The Critical Angle: George Platt Lynes Returns to Yale**
**Author: Dan Kellun**
**Page number(s): 28**


**Title: Endnote: The Starr Chamber**
**Author: Ian Blecher**
**Page number(s): 30**



**Title: Poster Child**
**Author: Andrew Young**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On the first really cold morning of the 
year, I walk into TYCO to get the story 
behind the boy whose enormous picture 
hangs on their wall. Despite the early hour, 
the machines are already humming, and some 
over-ambitious students are competing for 
space at the tiny counter. Ah, the familiar reek 
of ink and paper and ~PY machines worked 
past capacity. 

I take a quick glance up at 
the "TYCO kid," as I've silently 
dubbed him. Looking at this 
happy youth, with his knobby 
kid-elbows and tufted brown 
hair. who wouldn't be curious? 
The TYCO kid is possibly the 
second-biggest celebrity figure 
on campus. He is, at four feet by 
six feet, a little boy of preposterous 
proportions. It is time to 
put an end to the mystery. 

Michael Iannuzzi, Sr. is the 
owner of TYCO and the father 
of the TYCO kid. He takes me 
up to his spacious third floor office overlooking 
Broadway to tell me about his son, who is 
now all grown up. Ellie Iannuzzi, the mother, 
ducks in for a few comments. "People come 
into the store, and they know it's my son," she 
says with just a hint of motherly pride. 

The explanation of the poster itself is 
rather mundane. "We needed something to 
show that we could make big prints with our 
machine," says Mr. Iannuzzi. "So you know, I 
went through the photos. That one has always 
been a favorite of mine." The poster is of 
Mike, Jr. at age ten or so, an up-and-coming 
player for a little league team with a fearsome 
name: Standard Oil. 

Iannuzzi has the same photo hanging in 
his garage at home, in a somewhat less gigantic 
size. It hangs alongside a print of the 
TYCO kid's sister, who used to have her picture 
hanging in the store, screen-printed on a 
T-shirt. "It's the first thing I see when I come 
home," says Iannuzzi. 

Conversation switches over to the TYCO 
kid's erstwhile baseball career (which, incidentally, 
terminated during his freshman year of 
high school in favor of basketball). "Mike was 
a very good player as a little kid. He had a 
good arm. It was probably his strong suit as a 
young player, a very powerful arm," says Mr. 
Iannuzzi. The TYCO kid mainly stuck to 
pitcher, catcher, and third baseman, but as a 
little leaguer, he naturally played every position. 

At this point, I am allowed, upon request, 
to actually hold the TYCO kid's glove-the 
same one as in the poster. Like any true kid's 
glove, it is creased over, sandwich style. I 
touch its surface, still finely gritted with dirt, 
graying and ready to fall apart. The lettering 
has all fallen off, no doubt the result of the 
graceless bobbles that characterize little league 
play. 

This trip down memory lane prompts 
other recollections of yesteryear. The TYCO 
kid was very quiet as a child, as one might 
guess from the shy Bambi eyes we're so accustomed 
to seeing in the poster. 

"In nursery school, Michael just would 
not talk," says Mrs. Iannuzzi. "He'd play with 
all the kids and everything, but wouldn't talk 
to them." For a moment, I can't help but 
imagine little Mike sitting next to chattering 
kids, crushing trucks together with both 
hands, mouth sealed shut. 

Mr. Iannuzzi echoes this sentiment, a bit 
proudly. "I don't care how good of an interviewer 
you were, from 60 Minutes or something, that 
kid was just not going to talk to 
you. He'd speak to us of course, but 
there was no way he would talk to 
an outsider." 

"High school was his turning 
point," says Mrs. Iannuzzi. As these 
parents launch into a description of 
Mike's high school career, it quickly 
becomes clear that Mr. and Mrs. 
Iannuzzi are indeed the TYCO kid's 
biggest fans. "He never gave us trouble, an 
honors student, always 
worked hard," says Mr. Iannuzzi. 

Mrs. Iannuzzi offers to list all of 
Mike's awards for me. "It seemed we 
were always going to award banquets." 

Indeed, Mike was something of an overachiever: 
captain of the varsity basketball team 
senior year, class president junior year, student 
council vice-president senior year. "What do 
you expect me to say? He was perfect," laughs 
Mrs. Iannuzzi. 

All of this is a far cry from the sweet little 
TYCO kid who we all know and love. Mike 
Iannuzzi is grown up, currently 20 years old 
and a junior at Boston College. A contemporary. 

He is training, it seems, to be a future 
oppressor of the masses. It is with great consternation 
that I learn of the TYCO kid's current enrollment 
in the Carroll School of Management. His class 
schedule this semester, aside from a philosophy 
course: finance, marketing, management information 
systems, and business systems. 

I find it somehow disheartening to think 
of the TYCO kid, out in the corporate world 
serving the Man and crushing the proletariat. 
Perhaps this is an omen. If even the TYCO 
kid can join the Dark Side, what is the average 
Yalie destined for? 

Personally, along with other Yalies rooting 
from the sidelines, I'd like to see the TYCO 
kid take over the family business, one of the 
few mom-and-pop enterprises left on Broadway. 
This possibility is something that has 
been seriously discussed in the Iannuzzi 
household. "These past two summers I started 
to take TYCO very seriously," says Mike. 

Mr. Iannuzzi says that he just wants Mike 
to be happy. "He should have the option to 
involve himself with TYCO. If he's leaning in 
this direction, if he wants to come here, I 
don't want him to look at what I've done. I 
want him to do his own thing-he should 
have his vision of the future." 

The start of a dynasty? If Mike goes on to 
own TYCO and then has a child, perhaps he 
will tack up a gigantic photo of his kid right 
next to his own. Every generation thereafter 
could add huge pictures of their children on 
the wall of the store, passing the TYCO kid 
torch. Each picture would be a reminder of 
years past, a snapshot of youth frozen in time. 
A portrait of Peter Pan in Neverland. 
-Andrew Young


**Title: Get On Your Feet**
**Author: Genevieve Taft**
**Page number(s): 5**

Clap: "On your feet!" 
Clap: "On your back!" 
Twenty Capoeira students 
spring up and fall to the hard 
wood floor. 

Master Robert Thompson 
and his Timothy Dwight clan might print 
it on their shirts, but they are not the only 
ones in New Haven with ashl. Ashl is the 
force responsible for all movement in 
the universe, according to some African 
religions in Brazil. In the basement of a 
church on the corner of Olive and 
Chapel Streets Capoeira master Efriam 
Silva and his class conjure the energy 
force ashl as well. 

Capoeira is a dueling dance that emerged 
in sixteenth century Brazil with the arrival of 
African people during Portuguese colonization. 
Though its precise origins and definition 
seem as hard to pin down as the fluidity of 
capoeiristas, Efriam explains that it began as a 
martial art. "Because martial arts were banned 
among slaves, it was disguised as a dance," he 
says. In a match, a jogo, two capoeiristas meet 
each other in a roda, a closed circle of people 
playing music. The players seem to duel with 
kicks but dance as they anticipate and move 
with their partners, often without contact. 

When I come in, the class is practicing 
Capoeira music on the berimbau, the 
atabaque and the pandeiro. Music is an essential 
element of Capoeira, and a master must 
be proficient in the songs and rhythms as well 
as the physical motions. From a student's perspective 
music is intrinsic to developing a 
sense of timing and positioning. The berimbau, 
a curved wooden bow with a taut metal 
string which is beaten with a stick and rattle, 
is respected as a spiritual authority. Before 
entering the circle capoeiristas touch the 
berimbau as a reverent gesture to ensure protection 
during their match. Many of the more 
dedicated students have made their own; a 
capoeirista is encouraged to play it, care for it, 
and personalize it, infusing it with the energy 
needed for a good roda. 


Efriam challenges the students with repetition 
to make the motions instinctive. They 
repeat the basic step, the ginga, until all the 
students have their turn counting to ten in 
Portuguese. Clad in sweatpants lined with colors 
of 
Brazilian loyalty-green and yellow-students 
also wear a belt that denotes their 
level. A baptized novice gains a white 
cord and then one in green, yellow, 
blue, or any combination of the four 
until a master is crowned again with 
white. 

Two beginner students, Dennis 
Price and Toni Beluci, explain that 
Capoeira is a way of life. "I travel all over to 
participate in Capoeira events and because I 
share this interest with others, anywhere I go 
I have a place to stay," explains Dennis. "It's 
addictive-in a good sense," adds Toni. Its 
motions and rhythms permeate these students' 
daily routines, affecting everything 
from their physical movements to their mindset. 
"It's not just a game, it's a mind thing," 
says Dennis. Even from my bench view 
Capoeira is transfixing. 

From my less lofty perspective in Trumbull, 
Timothy Dwight might seem invincible 
on the Intramural fields with the power of 
ashl. This class of capoeiristas has an ashl of a 
different sort. Though Capoeira is performed 
with grace and fluidity and ideally without 
contact, it can be lethal. An article in Ebony 
magazine in 1947 declared that, "In a real 
attack, the aim of the Capoeira fighter is to 
throw an attacker so the softest part of his 
skull crashes upon the ground or pavement, 
either killing or kayoing." Ashl! 
-Genevieve Taft


**Title: Shades of Gray**
**Author: Jim Champagne**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

"See? Here it says the dish is 10 feet and 
two inches long. But that's wrong!" Ken 
Grimes flips through some carefully annotated 
photocopies which he pulled from several 
carefully labelled envelopes. "Here, it says it's 
30. That's right. I have it in ten other books. 
Three are in my library. This is more important 
than the Cheshire coincidences that got 
me started. There are 200 or 300 of these mistakes, 
I think. If we can find enough, we can 
statistically prove this." 

"What's your explanation for these mistakes?" 

"There's 
a 
conflict 
with 
reality. 
Astronomers start writing about what they 
know without realizing that there's an alien 
metaphysically and psychically there causing 
Freudian slips." 

Ken's face is reminiscent of Statler or 
Waldorf, the old Muppets who used to sit in 
the opera box on *The Muppet Show*, but he's 
younger, wears older, dirtier clothing, and has 
less of a sense of dramatic timing. But that's 
all right-his art speaks for itself. Quite often, 
there's someone to speak for him-The New 
York Times, The Wall Street Journal, and glossy 
catalogs from art exhibitions around the 
world offer their voices. In the words of the 
commentary-rich 
anthology 
*Self-Taught 
Artists of the Twentieth Century*, "His oeuvre is 
a huge, continuously growing book about visitors 
from outer space; each individual work is 
a self-contained 'page' that can be understood 
on its own, yet in style, look, and subject matter 
relates to every other 'page.'" 

Ken hangs out at Fellowship Place, on 
Elm Street. Fellowship Place is a job training 
facility, an art school, a food provider, a psychiatric 
treatment facility, and a welfare-to-work program; 
it combines all of these services into a one-of-a-kind 
psychiatric outpatient resource center. Of course, 
that includes 
providing art supplies, art education, 
and help in finding agents and 
navigating the art world for anyone 
who should happen to need it. Ken 
is just one of many fellowship 
workers who display their work in 
the friendly complex of barns. 

But Ken's art goes beyond the 
aesthetic. "I don't know how I 
could get the word out except by 
painting. I enjoy coming up with 
the ideas, and the recognition, but 
not the work involved with putting 
paint on large canvases." By restricting 
his palette to black and white, Ken 
evokes the usual colors of printed 
materials, and the idiom about having 
something in "black and white" as a 
claim to fact and truth. However, 
he turns the process inside out by 
making the words and objects white 
against a black background, like 
photographic negatives. 

Ken abruptly decides the conversation 
is over, gathering up his 
folders and opening the door. 

"Do you think people understand 
the messages behind your 
work?" 

"No," he tosses over his shoulder. 
"They don't." This is the first 
time he's broken through a monotone that 
resulted from a mental breakdown during his 
sophomore year of college. 

"Grimes' nuanced grays not only provide 
a delicate gamut between dark and light, but 
also hint at 'gray areas' in our understanding 
and communication," according to *Self-Taught 
Artists*. 

Ken couldn't have achieved his fame without 
Kate Walton, a mental health professional 
and the Executive Director of Fellowship 
Place. While she is proud of Fellowship's support 
for artists, she sees a greater force at work 
in creating these artists. "Schizophrenics' 
minds are just liberated to new levels. A normal 
mind shuts off before they get to experience 
those things. I don't know that many talented 
artists who aren't, well, rather eccentric." Still, 
she realizes that the problems Ken 
faces in working with his agent, keeping his 
finances in order, and doing public relations 
are greater than many artists' challenges. 

"The art people don't necessarily 
believe in his ideas either. There's 
just this harmonic convergence 
between popular ideas and striking 
art," says Walton. Perhaps because 
she's tired (her head is sagging), a 
note of annoyance at Ken's fame 
creeps into her voice. Walton 
prefers the brightly-colored work of 
another Fellowship artist, Maurice 
Hansen, whose enthusiastic painting 
of Fellowship's "Street of 
Dreams" festival adorns her office 
wall. "I mean, Ken's art looks great 
in New York City apartments with 
lots of stainless steel and black 
formica and ... and whatever they 
have," she says. 

"In this chromatic synthesis, 
the stark demands of black and 
white are tremulously linked by the 
subtleties of gray," explains *Self-Taught 

Ken reaches out to the people 
in the murky realm between skepticism 
and a desire to believe. "There's 
room for a lot of different voices in 
this," Ken says. "You could even 
help." 
-Jim Champagne


**Title: A Place at the Table**
**Author: [Author Name Missing]**
**Page number(s): 6**

Last year, as a prefrosh on my official college 
tour, I saw the Women's Table for the first 
time. The simplicity of the sculpture in con-



**Title: The Women's Table**
**Author: julia Kardon**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The contrast with the Gothic architecture of Sterling Memorial Library was striking. What attracted me to it, however, was not so much its aesthetic strength as the significance of the outwardly spiraling numbers, marking the entrance of women into Yale. 

This year, when I arrived on campus and saw Maya Lin's sculpture again, I realized that 1993 was the last year the number of women enrolled at Yale was inscribed; after that year the spiral ends. I was somewhat disappointed by this, because I still fostered my wish to be a part of the spiral. I went to the Manuscripts and Archives department at the library to find out why numbers were no longer being added. I soon learned that Lin designed the Table so that the spiral would end at 1993, the year the sculpture was installed. 

The chief research archivist, Judith Schiff, informed me that she had worked on the project to research the enrollment of women at Yale in earlier years, which was far from a routine task. Women's names first appeared in Yale's records in 1873, four years after the founding of the coeducational School of the Fine Arts. The names of those who enrolled during its first years are lost. For a long time after 1873, only the names of students were recorded. Schiff and her colleagues had to research students with ambiguous names such as "Stacey" or "Lee" to determine their genders. One woman, likely the first to study at Yale, did not appear in the records as female because she applied and was accepted to the law school under her initials. Although the administration did not prevent her from enrolling when her gender became apparent, it soon created a policy explicitly prohibiting the enrollment of women at Yale. 

The Women's Table is an understated reminder of a time when the inclusion of women at Yale was something first nonexistent, then tenuous and extraordinary. The presence of women is now integral to the life of the university and ordinary in the best sense of the word. Yet inequalities still exist, as we see from a tenured faculty that is 89 percent male. Lin wrote, "The choice of a spiral was to mark a beginning but to leave the future open." Now that the matriculation of women and men is equal, Yale's strides toward equality can no longer be contained by numbers on a table. 
-julia Kardon 
October 9, 1998


**Title: Media Saturation or Bust**
**Author: Darby Saxbe**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

When I spoke to Debbie Stoller (GRD '87) on a weekday afternoon, she spent the first ten minutes of our conversation poking around under her bed for a favorite shirt and trying to keep her dog away from the UPS man. Not the standard workday for a rising young magazine editor, but then Stoller, who co-founded and co-edits Bust, has always been a bit different. After getting a Ph.D in Psychology of Women, she headed to New York to create websites for Nickelodeon and to work in feminist-friendly media. Bust is more likely to run ads from independent record labels than from cosmetics companies. Its tone-frank, funny, and big-sister hip-recalls old-school _sassy_. Since 1993, Stoller and her partners, Marcelle Karp and designer Laurie Henzel, have turned Bust from a xeroxed zine to a glossy magazine that gets distributed in Borders, prints rants by Courtney Love, and featured Missy Elliot on its last cover. Bust was given several inches of column space in this summer's Time cover story, "Is Feminism Dead?" Although the story's writers concluded that yes, feminism is dead, and that image-oriented pop culture magazines like Bust are part of the problem, Stoller herself contends that the women's movement is alive and well. 

I'm going to put you on speaker phone now. 
Yay! I'm on speaker phone. Why am I on speaker phone? You don't have one of those little phone tape recorder thingies where you can plug it into the phone? Linda Tripp-like, you know. Where is my damn shirt? What's it like in New Haven today? 
It's nice. Kind of one of those New England autumns. 
Yeah ... the sky there was always so beautiful. I lived on Chapel Street, across the street from the art school. I lived upstairs from a Chinese restaurant, across from Jong's. I loved watching the people go back and forth. That was my best apartment. 
So how did you end up at Yale? 
I put myself through college. I went to a really crappy state school because I had to pay for it myself, and I was barely able to swing that, washing dishes at the cafeteria. I wanted out of there so bad that I graduated in two and a half years, and then I applied to all these grad schools. I was interested in going into psychobiology, brain and behavior, and when you go into a field like that, they pay you to be a student, because they expect you to teach and do research. So I knew I wasn't going to have to pay, which is how I could manage to do it. Then Yale called me and I was off in Holland doing research, and I said, of course, of course, I'll come to Yale, that's so exciting-what I wanted for my whole life was to go to a fancy school like that for free. My parents were so overwhelmed-no one in my family had ever gone to an Ivy school. They were so floored and excited, that in the middle of the night after I told them they got worried and thought maybe someone was pulling my leg. In the morning they called Yale to make sure it was true. 
How did you get into doing psychology of women? 
After about two years of doing psychobiology, I realized that it wasn't for me-I was good at it, but when I started at Yale I was 20, and I was kind of a big fuck-up. Finally, finally I had made it to the cool school and I was so happy and so excited. My college had been full of frat boys and sorority girls and I was like the outcast freak, and at Yale I was meeting all these great people and it was like an embarrassment of riches, just overwhelming. I spent more time hanging out at the cafes and the bars and running around enjoying myself than I did at the lab. I realized pretty early on that I wasn't going to be able to cut the lifestyle that science required of me-I wasn't going to be able to spend all my


---

time in these little darkened laboratories. 

Because there were so many cool things to do at Yale, I started taking other classes outside my department and I took classes in video-making. I started to take film theory classes. I was interested in all that stuff, and then I just felt like I didn't really fit in with the psychobiology people. I had this girlfriend in the grad school, too, in Developmental Psychology, and we were both feminists and spent a lot of time thinking about that stuff and taking classes outside our department. At that time, there was all this work going on about feminist film theory-people were always talking about images of sex objects, what harm it does to women. Feminists were writing about pornography, and it was a very hot topic. Some film theorists said, when you show women as a sex object on the screen, it gives the man who's watching it power, it gives him a chance to feel like he's getting to consume that image and the woman is powerless. But other theorists were writing and saying, no, when you have images like that the woman is really powerful and the men feel really scared. As someone with a research background, I thought, well, this is something I could really research and find an answer to. So my best friend and I sort of created a make-believe Psychology of Women department together and had a bunch of people come speak at Yale. 

I actually wrote my dissertation in a month. I'd done my research, but I just kept putting off the writing-up part. I finally decided that I really wanted to graduate with a cap and gown, and if I was going to do that I would actually have to adhere to the due date. So I locked myself up in a room in the psychology department that had a computer and I just wrote and wrote and wrote until four in the morning and then I would go to sleep on the couch in that room because I knew that the cleaning lady would come at five, so that I would only be able to sleep for an hour and she would wake me up and I would keep writing and writing and writing. That was before the days when everyone had a computer-I actually wrote all my papers on a typewriter. 

I wanted to ask you about computers. I saw a Shift.com column where you wrote that you were programming BASIC with punch cards while today's computer whizzes were still playing with blocks. You've always been comfortable with that technology yourself. What do you think about the cyberspace revolution and its implications for women? 
I know that there's a myth out there that technology is for boys and girls are scared of it, but I think that that myth is really dying. When I talk to really little girls about computers they have no idea that they're supposed to be afraid of them. And I think that the basic skills that the Internet requires-typing, communicating-all this is stuff that women are supposedly better at than men. Really, according to stereotype, women should be the computer users. I think that, while older women might still have some trepidation about computers, the younger girls are going to even that out. 
Speaking of younger girls, how did you get started at Nickelodeon? 
I graduated from Yale and went to New York with a Ph.D and started working as a secretary, trying to figure out what I wanted to do. I had been studying the media, and when I graduated I wanted to actually start creating new media that would be good for women, rather than just teach people about the negative effects the media could have on them. But there wasn't any place to go. Sassy hadn't been born yet. So I figured I would start out at the ground floor of a new media company and get involved with it. I started at Nickelodeon in the typing pool and rose through the ranks. I ended up doing online work because I 
9



**Title: Bust Interview**
**Author: Darby Saxbe**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
was always interested in computers. When I 
was there Geraldine Laybourne was president 
and she was interested in girls and so she 
wanted to target materials to them. 

At what point in all this did Bust get started? 

Like I said, I was looking for a way to be 
involved in making good media for women,. 
but there wasn't any place to go. Pretty early 
on at Nickelodeon, I was thinking, "What am 
I going to do with my life? I've spent six years 
getting a Ph.D and now I'm working as a secretary." I'd been reading Sassy and that magazine was so cool, I just thought it was brilliant-all my girlfriends were reading it, and 
we were all in our late 20s ... and all the media 
for women was like Mademoiselle and Glamour, and then all of a sudden riot grrls started 
getting talked about, foxcore music started 
getting talked about, and I thought, you 
know, there are a whole bunch of other chicks 
like me who are not necessarily fulfilling the 
Mademoiselle model of female behavior, who 
would sooner have a bottle of tequila to relax 
than have a long bath and a cup of General 
Foods International Coffee. We need a magazine too. It's great that teenagers have Sassy, 
but what about us older girls? We need to 
have something cool. So I had the idea to 
launch a new magazine and right away I 
thought it should be called Bust-something 
that would be funny and sexy and aggressive-and I mentioned it to a girl I worked 
with at Nickelodeon. A year later she called 
me and said, "Did you ever do anything 
about that magazine idea that you had?" and I 
said no, and she said, "Why don't we get 
together and talk about trying to do it?" But 
being the slacker that I was, that we both 
were, there was no way we were going to say, 
okay, let's make a business proposal, and go 
and get investors ... between sips of coffee and 
smoking cigarettes and going out all night 
every night, there wasn't too much in the way 
of starting a new business that we were going 
to take on. But we did decide that there might 
be a way for us to just do it ourselves, something that wouldn't cost us anything, to just 
sort of see what we could do with the idea. 
We both asked friends of ours to start writing 
stories about things in their lives that they 
weren't seeing reflected anywhere in the 
media, the real lives of women. I worked with 
a bunch of designers at Nickelodeon, and 
they helped to lay it out on the computer and 
we printed it and xeroxed it ... so we did that, 
we xeroxed and stapled 500 copies, and hence 
the first issue of Bust was born in 1993. 

How did you get the magazine's readership 
to grow so quickly? 

With that first issue, we went around to 
stores, and said, "Would you sell our magazine?" and brought around 500 copies ... but 
we really didn't think too much of it, it had 
been fun to make, we didn't know what 
would happen with it. And all of a sudden we 
started to get fan mail and orders for the magazine and we had to xerox and staple an additional 500 copies-this was all done furtively 
in the offices of Viacom. It wasn't a magazine 
then, it was totally a zine. It still is, but it 
could now enter a party of magazines, it could 
pass-it could get past the red rope, baby. A 
bunch of people we'd sent it off to, to see if 
they'd be interested in distributing it, said, this 
is kind of a cool idea, but we really can't sell 
this 
stupid 
thing 
that's 
xeroxed 
and 
stapled ... if you want us to distribute it, you 
have to get it printed. So Marcelle and I both 
reached into our pockets and took out $500 
each, and so for $1000 we printed 3000 
copies of the second issue. Also, I knew a girl 
from Nickelodeon who had a really cool artistic 
sensibility and always had pictures of Yoko 
Ono and Nico hanging over her desk, and we 
asked her if she would take on the project of 
getting Bust designed, and she said yes. So the 
second issue started to look more like Bust as 
you know it today, although it was really small 
and it was on newsprint. With every issue we 
got some monies coming in from subscribers, 
and we also started selling ads. We learned as 
we were going on. I had never edited before, 
Laurie had never designed a magazine, so we 
all learned about those things. 

When did the website become part of the 
project? [http://www.bust.com] 

As soon as I started to learn how to make 
websites I started trying to make a Bust website-it's been there since very early on in the 
web, even back when you could only have 
grey backgrounds. We used to have text from 
the first issue available on a gopher, in fact. 
We were always trying to distribute it electronically. I even got a Hypercard version of 
Bust in AOL. Because I did computer stuff I 
was always trying to use that to get the word 
of Bust out. Now the website is still one of our 
last priorities--here I am, a website designer, 
and our website really suffers from a lack of 
content. It's hard because Bust still doesn't pay 
us any money, now we distribute 30,000 
copies of the magazine, and we get written up, 
and I get e-mail from people saying, I want to 
work for Bust, here's my resume, and it's like, 
"Honey, as soon as we can hire ourselves we'll 
start thinking about hiring other people." 
Nobody makes one thin dime-Bust, like 
crime, doesn't pay. All the money that comes 
in goes back to printing the next issue of the 
magazine, and each issue that we've done has 
been better and more expensive than the last 
one. We're working on the twelfth issue now. 
We worked our way up to a four-color cover, 
and then we worked our way up to a shiny 
cover, then we worked our way up to shiny 
inside pages, and then having color on the 
inside pages--we're always pumping it in and 
making the magazine better. 

What was the impact of the Time story for 
Bust? 

We got a lot of work out of that. As soon 
as I saw that in the magazine, I said, oh God, 
OCTOBER 9, 1998
I'm going to get some phone calls ... there's 
really no such thing as bad publicity. Because 
of that magazine thousands and thousands 
more people heard about Bust. There was a 
buzz. 

Everyone expected Time to bash feminism; they've been doing it for years. Any 
time that feminism has a chance to get up on 
the podium and speak, even if only in 
response to a negative article, that's great. The 
real story of the '90s is the revamping of feminism, the makeover of feminism, how it's 
popular again. The Spice Girls are calling 
themselves feminists, eight year old girls are 
jumping around in their big sneakers and calling themselves feminists. When Bust was first 
started there was a smaller percentage of people who were willing to call themselves feminist. Now the girl power thing that was just 
starting to build when we started Bust is really 
widespread. 

The Time story was totally clueless. It was 
like, "Hello, postmodernism, hello, irony" ... I 
was really upset that all these feminists I know 
and respect were responding to the article, 
saying, "You're wrong, we are still doing grassroots work''-I'm sorry, but popular culture is 
really important, have we not realized that 
yet? What's in the popular culture is a really 
important reflection of where our value system is, and putting feminist products out into 
the popular culture is a way of making 
change. I don't think that putting out Bust is 
not as important as standing at abortion clinics and protesting against Operation Rescue ... I think that Sassy was one of the most 
important feminist things to happen in the 
last 15 years. So was Madonna and so was 
Courtney Love. One of the first things the 
women's movement did in the '70s was to go 
and protest the Miss America pageant, and to 
hold a sit-in in the Ladies' Home Journal offices. They realized back then the importance of pop culture. It was just weird that 
Time was saying that feminism now is just a 
bunch of vapid pop culture stuff ... and all 
these feminists who should know better are 
responding on their terms. A political strategy 
through popular culture is a valid way of dealing with things. It doesn't have to be apologized for. 


**Title: Closing Time**
**Author: Eli Kintisch**
**Page number(s): 12**

STUDENTS ARE TROUBLED BY RECENT POLICE CRACKDOWNS 
ON PARTIES SERVING ALCOHOL, BUT WHAT SEEMS LIKE THE NEW 
PROHIBITION MAY JUST BE A BEGINNING-OF-THE-YEAR FORMALITY. 



**Title: Yale's Crackdown**
**Author: Eli Glintsch**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
t was the second weekend of the school year. Camp Yale was going 
strong, and rumors of the crackdown were flying. People were 
whispering. With Old Campus still crawling with parents, Yale 
police officers had arrived at a party in Vandetbilt Hall. "This year 
it's going to be different," a cop told T101 O'Meara (DC '00) as he ush-
ered people out of the room. A few days later, when police appeared at 
McClellan Hall, a cop said, "We don't want to have to do this, but we 
were told to crack down real hard the first month," according to 
Nathan Vasquez (TC '00). Students were getting carded at Viva's. 
Rudy's was turning people away. Naples and Gecko's were tightening 
their collars. Students were getting called on their f.tke IDs. 
There was talk of a party in the Boyd Swing Space where the under-
aged host was wasted on plastic-bottled Smirnoff and orange juice. He 
vomited repeatedly on his bed, mumbling about DUH and doctors. 
His friends called an ambulance. 
A cop arrived with the ambulance. "First thing be asked was, 'How 
is he?"' said Quinny Tan (DC '01). "The next second, he asked if the 
host was 21, and who had bought the drinks." The officer went on to 
explain that the police were now "taking action" against those who pur-
chased alcohol for minors. "He told us there was a new policy and then 
interrogated us, one by one," said Kyle Jarrow (SM '0 1). 


The pattern of the crackdown seemed to continue the next week-
end at Davenport's Cottage, a traditional party suite. Police arrived to 
break up a massive crowd that had gathered to hear the Sextones, a sru-
dent band, perform. Rumors swirled around the campus quickly, sug-
gesting that the police were overreacting to a party that, while huge in 
attendance, had a very relaxed atmosphere. When the cops told the 
0croBEJl 9, 1998 
-
band to stop playing, and announced that the party was over, the crowd 
yelled obscenities. Marc Hoffman (ES '00) stepped up to the micro-
phone to protest the forced ending of the party. 
"He said, 'Why's the party over, ask them why!'" recalled Roberto 
Boneta (DC '00), a bystander. Then the situation got ugly. Boneta and 
others maintain that the officer told Hoffman to "get the fuck off the 
mic." Hoffman stepped away from the microphone and tried to discuss 
the situation with the officer, and, according to Boneta, the officer 
"pushed him hard." 
"The cop came towards me and I was between [Hoffman] and the ~ 
cop. I said, 'Officer, there's no need for violence,' and asked for his ~ 
badge number," Boneta said. The crowd, which had been watching the ; 
scene in shock, began shouting "Give us your badge number!" which ~ 
furthet infuriated the officer. "He ripped my shirt and grabbed my arm. i: 
I raised my hands in the air and said, 'I'm not doing anything.'" T he ~ 
officer then dragged Bonera, forcefully at first, to Davenport Dean ~ 
Larry Lyke, who Boneta claims saw the entire incident. "The dean told 2: 
me, 'Don't harass the officers.'" 


"The cop was definitdy out of line,'' said Peter Eleey (TC '00). 
Adam Seidman (ES '00) claims that a police officer shoved him as well. 
Yale Police Chief James Perrorti says no formal comp~ts have been 
filed with the Yale Police, and according to his official report of the inci-
dent, there was no misconduct. 
While most fdt the majority of the officers were courteous and 
restrained in a tense situation, the incident left a sour taste in the 
mouths of those srudents who had witnessed the behavior of the offi-
cers. Many saw Seidrnan~d Hoffinan, who now face the prospect of 
_} 
13 


--- Page 14 ---

an arrest warrant, as scapegoats for a raucous 
event. Executive Committee hearings are 
pending for the pair as well as several mem-
bers of the band and the .hosts of the party. 


T
he origin of the perceived crackdown 
had its roots last fall, when a drunken 
crew recruit was taken to Yale-New 
Haven Hospital. He told the police he had 
been served at Alpha Delta Phi's FunnelFest, a 
celebration of gravity and beer. A few days 
later, Yale Police arrested the fraternity's presi-
dent. 
Next to experience the pinch was Delta 
Kappa Epsilon's (DKE) Feb Club-a month 
of nightly parties aimed at relieving winter 
malaise. Though officials denied that they had 
used the widely distributed list of events to 
target locations, fraternity brothers ques-
tioned whether the administration and police 
were playing by unwritten rules. 
"They weren't just shutting down parties, 
but shutting down the parties before the fact," 
said Chris Ryan (BR '99), vice-president of 
DKE. "Residential college masters were call-
ing people into their offices and saying, 'Do 
not have this party.'" 
Then the administration came down hard 
on DKE sophomores Matt Manewal (BK '00) 
and Anthony Coyne (BK '00), who were 
caught with a keg by police responding to 
noise complaints. The pair faced Ex.Comm 
for serving to minors. "They told us it was by 
their own good graces that they didn't kick us 
out of school," said Manewal. With the newly 
applied pressure, DKE, Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
(SAE) and many other fraternities were hav-
ing fewer large parties, carding at the door, 
issuing armbands, and using phrases like "risk 
management" along with keg and tap in their 
party planning. 
University officials deny that there have 
been any changes in policy. But this fall, it 
seemed that parties were under fire wherever 
one looked~n-cunpus, off-campus, in frats, 
in apartments, in courtyards. "Since I was a 
freshman, there's been a step up in police 
activities," said Blake Sando (BK '99), presi: 
dent of SAE. "There's much more liability." 


The increased pressure seemed to make 
sense in light of recent national events. In the 
last two years, alcohol-related fatalities have 
hit more than a dozen schools across the 
nation, from MIT to Clarkson. But as the 
"H~ RIPPED MY SH I RT AND GRABBED 
MY ARM. I RAISED MY ARMS IN T H E 
AIR AND SAID, ' I'M NOT DOING 
ANYTHING:"' THE OFFICER THEN 
DRAGGED BON ETA, FORCEFULLY AT 
FIRST, TO DAVENPORT DEAN LARRY 
LYKE, WHO BON ETA CLAIMS SAW THE 
WHOLE. INCIDENT. "THE DEAN TOLD 
ME, 'DON'T HARASS THE OFFICERS."' 
death toll rises, students aren't getting the 
message. Researchers at Harvard's School of 
Public Health report that more and more col-
lege students are drinking in excess. College 
campuses are reacting with unprecedented 
regulations. Fraternities and campus houses 
have tightened measures at MIT, for example, 
and at state schools around the country, where 
police actually patrol the parties. 
During Dean of Student Affairs Betty 
Trachtenberg's tenure, Yale has escaped 
tragedy, but the dose calls make her uneasy. 
"We've had several cases this year where stu-
dents were as dose to death as they can be-
0.3 [blood] alcohol level and over." 


t's a common counter-argument to the 
idea of a crackdown: the cops are more 
active at the beginning of the year, and as 
the parrying dies down, their activity lessens. 
More likely than nor, there has been no offi-
cial change, but individual police officers are 
taking it upon themselves to send messages. 
With classes started and parties slowing down, 
perhaps university officials felt there was no 
need for further warning. 
But three weeks after the dosing of the 
Davenport Cottage party, the breakup of an 
off-campus party suggested this assumption 
might not be correct. The patty was called 
Crime and Punishment, held at 15 Edgewood 
Avenue. The cops arrived a litde after one. 
The atmosphere was relaxed; the band was 
too loud. By 1: 15 everyone had filed out to be 
greeted by 12 New Haven ~d Yale police 
cars. 
Ga.ty and · Mark were among the first to 
leave the party. "I saw this cop get up from his 
car, and he dropped his shoulder and checked 
Gary-he laid into him," Mark said. "I said, 
'What are you shoving me for?"' said Gary. 
"The cop replied, 'Because I want you to get 
the fuck out of here."' Gary moved on with 
the rest of the crowd, which was still exiting 
the party. 
Moments later, Gary. Mark and Andrew 
Fisher (SM '00) approached the officer. Mark 
asked politely for his name and badge num-
ber. "We were not confronrational," said Fish-
er, "but [the officer] grabbed Mark's arm, and 
waved the flashlight at us threateningly. He 
was swearing, real pissed. He yelled, 'You 
wanna file a complaint? I'll take you to my 
supervisor,' sarcastically." 
"If my friend hadn't been there to insist 
that he tell us, I was intimidated enough that 
I wouldn't have persisted," said Mark. "I 
intend to file a report." Judy Mongillo, repre-
sentative of the New Haven Police Depart-
ment, said she has no information about the 
incident. 


"A lot of students are complaining about 
being mistreated," said Yale College Council 
President Zachary Kaufinan (SY '00). "I 
understand that the police have a job to do, 
but it seems their conduct should be investi-
gated to make swe that they are operating 
within official police procedure." 


This sentiment is echoed by Julio Gonza-
lez (CC '99), Alderman of New Haven's Ward 
Tm NEW JouRNAL 


--- Page 15 ---

One. "When you have vague standards, you 
have a selective enfor~ment," he said. "Stu-
dents have grown to believe that if it's a pri-
vate affair, signs [indicating the law] posted, 
and no disturbances, they are entitled to be 
left alone." It's what Gonzalez calls a "different 
culture of enforcement" that leads to the con-
fusion, and the so-called mixed messages such 
as: the JE master's house serves champagne to 
the public, yet sophomores are put on proba-
tion for getting caught with a keg. 


The reality is that both 
act with an implicit under-
standing of responsibility. 
Students 
may 
protest 
when the sophomores are 
punished, but this seems a 
petty price for a generous 
freedom. Yale is neither a 
boarding school nor Chico 
State. En wco parm~ 
the doctrine of the univer-
sity as protector-is alive 
and well, if sometimes 
misunderstood. 


While the university 
usually looks away from students drinking 
alcohol in their rooms, it must periodically 
make an example of people. By choosing to 
serve underage students, hosts must accept 
that they may get caught, may be made 
responsible, and may face litigation. The par-
ents of Scott Krueger, who died at MIT, are 
suing his fraternity. Sometimes, ExComm is 
the least of your worries. 


t's hard to reconcile a university crack-
down with Yale's alcohol-soaked history. 
In the 19th century, afTer all, rich Yalies 
were served beer by their butlers at breakfast. 
In the 1970s and '80s students drank beer 
almost exclusively-available at college-fund-
ed keg parties in the dining halls, no less-
with little adult supervision. In the mid '80s, 
Connecticut's drinking age increased, and the 
law was changed to ban serving alcohol to 
minors. The University adopted massive regu-
lations to protect against lawsuits, and the 
results were an end to dining hall bashes, a 
resurgence of fraterllities, an increase in police 
attention, and a more active Executive Com-
mittee. However, those measures certainly 
didn't eliminate traditions like Mory's, Tap 
Night, and TANG. 
"Another effect was that the drinking was 
OCTOBER 9, 1998 
driven underground," said Associate Provost 
Uoyd Suttle, who was Dean of Student 
Affairs in the '80s. "People started drinking 
the hard stuff." Yale saw binge drinking 
become a lethal reality. Similar patterns fol-
lowed around the country. 
When Wtlliam Bennett was Master of Sil-
liman College in the mid '80s, he saw the rise 
of binge drinking. "They had these whiskey 
bars, where students would chug-a-lug 9, 10, 
11 shots." Bennett also witnessed Yale's most 
nounced dead. 
recent alcohol tragedy, the 
death of Silliman student 
Ted McGuire in 1987. 
McGuire began the 
evening at a SAC party in 
Saybrook. "Then he pol-
ished off a bottle of tequi-
la," said Bennett. "His 
friends carried him up five 
floors and lefr him on the 
floor to sleep it off." At 
6:30 in the morning, 
someone noticed he had 
stopped breathing. Several 
hours later he was pro-


It's frightening to discover how often such 
a tragedy is narrowly avoided. During this 
year's Tap Night, on September 23, a crowd 
of drunken singing group members were par-
tying in Branford. It was a splash of fun in an 
otherwise dreary evening, with Madonna 
pumping from inside and singers trading Tap 
Night war stories in the Branford courtyard. 
In the middle of the parry, a woman began 
complaining that she felt ill. Friends huddled 
around her, offering advice. She was blue, 
shivering, and periodically vomiting. 
"She was very sick, but I felt it wasn't a 
good idea to call DUH- it would have 
turned into a disciplinary problem," the host 
said. "Since it was my room, it would have 
gone into our files in the dean's office." Here, 
it seems, students finally bad the privacy they 
wanted, and none of the intrusion from the 
law that so many others had protested. 


Gary and Mark are pseudonyms. 
Eli /(jntisch, a senior in Ezra Stiles Co/kg~, is 
associau tditQr ofTNJ ·


**Title: WHY HAS THE NEW HAYEN PRESERVATION TRUST'S AGREEMENT WITH YALE ALLOWED A HISTORICAL HOUSE TO BE TORN DOWN FOR A PARKING LOT?**
**Author: Ben Smith**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Trumbull Street between Hill-
"Maple 
Cottage," 
located 
on 
including the derelict Davies Mansion on 
Prospect Street; the Trust promised to stand 
aside while Yale sold the Kingsley-Blake House ~ 
house and Temple, is a remnant 
of another New Haven. The great American archi-
tect Alexander Jackson Davis designed the house in 1836 as part of the 
plan for an elaborate city envisioned by his patron, James Hillhouse. 
Maple Cottage was intended to be among the formal mansions looked 
down upon by the lavish Hillhouse Estate (now Science Hill). While 
study elms lined Hillhouse, the "cottages" on side streets like Trumbull 
bad to settle for respectable maples. 
Two maple trees still stand outside Maple Cottage. But by the time 
Yale acquired the house in 1976, previous owners had buried much of 
the exterior detail under a drab layer of stucco. A notice on the door of 
the abandoned building announces Yale's intention to demolish it 
before winter, and to lay down a parking lot in its place. Yale has found 
an unlikely ally for its plans in the New Haven Preservation Trust. 

Yale administracors have considered Maple Cottage a liability since 
1995, when the Center for International and Area Studies left the 
building for Luce Hall. They kept this sentiment to themselves until 
February 26 of this year, when Yale President Richard Levin (GRD '74) 
and the President of the Preservation Trust Edward Bottomley (CC 
'81) signed an unprecedented agreement in a public ceremony in Bat-
tell Chapel. Yale promised to renovate four decaying local landmarks, 
OcrosER 9, 1998 
on Trumbull Street and demolished neighboring Maple Cottage. 

Signed more than two years after the creation of Yale's Office of ~ 
New Haven and State Affairs, the February 26 agreement was one of ~ 
the notable accomplishments of Yale's new policy of community ~ 
engagement. In the following months, however, consensus within the ~ 
Trust and the local preservation community evaporated, and those f 
opposed to the Trust's vision of cooperation with Yale coalesced into the ~ 
Friends of Hillhouse Avenue. Members of this new group suggest that ~ 
the February agreement merely rubber-stamped Yale's pre-existing ~ 
plans, and that the Trust's directors were railroaded into its approval. 

Much to the chagrin of the Friends of Hillhouse, the Preservation ~ 
Trust signed off on a landscaped parking lot as the temporary replace- g 
ment for Maple Cottage. However, according to recendy released plan-
~ 
ning documents, Yale has higher hopes for Trumbull Str~. In a letter .., 
to the Connnecticut Historic Commission, the Office of Facilities cited ; 
a planning consultant, writing, "One of their recommendations is that ~ 
this become the primary entrance to Yale, a major gateway to the Uni-
versity and New Haven." In the long term, Yale promises a new build- ~ 
ing of similar size and placement. "A more substantial building, hous-
ing academic or student administrative offices, if properly scaled, would 
be a more suitable announcement of the Uni-
versity on Trumbull Street," according to Yale 
planning documents.· 

To the untrained eye, Maple Cottage 
doesn't look like much to fight for. 
However, 
architectural 
historian 
Anstress Farwell insists that the cracked stucco 
could be peeled back to reveal original 19th 
century detail. Farwell is an old hand at New 
Haven preservation activism. Eighteen years 
thought she could convince them to go back 
to Yale for a new round of. negotiations. "The 
Board was completely pciralyzed," she says. 
Although the Trust had agreed not to pose 
any legal obstacles to Maple Cottage's demoli-
tion, nothing prevented Farwell, an indepen-
dent consultant, from filing the papers that 
would force Yale to bring its case for demoli-
tion before the State Historical Commission 
in Hartford this September. 

By this summer, Farwell's initiative had 
ago, as a graduate stu-
dent in architectural his-
tory, she led a group that 
forced Yale to preserve 
the Davies 
Mansion. 
Still technically a Yale 
Ph.D candidate, 
she 
now works as a freelance 
preservation consultant 
and is the driving force 
behind the Friends of 
Hillhouse. Citing the 
dirty stucco and the 
metal fire escape slapped 
onto one side of the 
building, Farwell blames 
"A. MORE SUBSTANTIAL 
BUILDING, HOUSING 
ACADEMIC OR STUDENT 
evolved into Thursday 
night meetings of the 
Friends of Hillhouse. 
This ad hoc organiza-
tion reflects the two 
types of people who 
make up the preserva-
tionist 
community: 
those who own fabulous 
old houses, and those 
who make a Uving from 
them. 
Held 
in 
the 
Whitney Avenue office 
of a real estate broker, 
the group includes Yale 
employees and mem-
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES , 
IF PROPERLY SCALED, 
WOULD BE A MORE 
SUITABLE ANNOUNCEMENT 
OF THE UNIVERSITY ON 
TRUMBULL STREET, " 
ACCORDING TO YALE 
PLANNING DOCUMENTS . 
Maple Cottage's current state on 20 years of 
Yale ownership. "This is demolition by 
neglect," she says. 
The world of New Haven preservationists 
is a small one, and Farwell first learned about 
the Trust's agreement with Yale through Trust 
President Bottomley, her friend, former 
neighbor, and current nemesis. The Trust's 
Board of Directors had already passed the 
agreement by a vote of 22-0, but Farwell 
bers of an older New Haven eUte, as well as 
professional historians and preservationists. 
The discussion sometimes digresses into talk 
of leaky slate roofs, decrepit chimneys, and 
excessive property taxes, but centers on the 
members' shared sense that the Preservation 
Trust betrayed its mission by signing the Feb-
ruary agreement with Yale. Many of the 
Friends of Hillhouse are members of the 
Preservation Trust, among them four Direc-


**Yale, the Trust, and the Friends of Hillhouse**
**Author: Ben Smith**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
tors who regret voting for the February deal. 
Nancy Baquie, a Wooster Square resident and 
member of the Trust's Executive Committee, 
complains of her exclusion from Bottomley's 
discussions with the Trust's chief negotiator, 
Robert Gnywacz. "Even I am not invited to 
the secret meetings," says Baquie. 
Although they are dissatisfied with Yale's 
behavior, the Friends of Hillhouse save their 
strongest words for their fellow preservation-
ists at the Trust. "There was absolute secrecy 
with 
no 
community 
involvement," 
com-
plains Jack 
Gold, a 
member of the Friends 
of Hillhouse who once 
worked as a preserva-
tionist for the city of 
New Haven. The parties 
to the negotiations give 
differing accounts. Yale 
Associate Vice President 
for 
Facilities 
Kemd 
Dawkins says, "It's not 
clear to me that there 
was this secrecy," while 
the Trust's 
Bottomley 
says that the planning was confidential. "Yale 
wanted it that way," he claims. 


Yale first made contact with the Trust in 
October 1996, according to Trust 
negotiator Gnywacz, an architect who 
also chairs the Trust's Preservation Action 
Committee. In November 1997, two repre-
sentatives of Yale's Office of Facilities and 
Office of New Haven and State Affairs met 
with Grzywacz. Yale came to the table with 
plans to demolish two of six properties, and 
ready to discuss the terms by which the other 
four would be restored, 
according 
to 
Grzywacz. Months of negotiations produced 
an agreement that committed Yale to the 
restoration of the badly damaged Davies 
Mansion, two decrepit houses on Hillhouse . 
Avenue, and the 18th cenrury John Pierpont 
House on Elm Street. Grzywacz and Bottom-
ley both pointed out that while they were 
unable to save Maple 
Cottage, they did con-
vince Yale to grant a 
one-year grace period 
for the Kingsley-Blake 
House across the street. 
(It currently houses the 
Ethics, 
Politics, 
and 
Economics 
Program.) 
Yale has agreed to give 
the structure to anyone 
who will take it, and has 
even offered $75,000 
toward 
the immense 
cost of physically mov-
ing an antique house. 

CITING THE DIRTY STUCCO 
AND THE METAL FIRE 
ESCAPE SLAPPED ONTO 
ONE SIDE OF THE 
BUILDING, FARWELL 
BLAMES MAPLE COTTAGE'S 
CURRENT STATE ON 
TWENTY YEARS OF YALE 
OWNERSHIP. " THIS IS 
DEMOLITION BY 
NEGLECT," SHE SAYS. 

The trust also won significant concessions on 
the details of the restoration of the other four 
properties, according to trust officials. 


Trust officials like to focus on the Febru-
ary agreement's preamble, which recognizes 
that Yale's academic mission comes first and 
asserts, "Change is part of a continuously liv-
ing community." However, the agreement 
recognizes that "conscientious stewardship 
requires ... a careful balancing of preservation 
and change." The preamble also promises 
"continued consultation" on the six proper-
ties, but Grzywacz called the Friends of Hill-
house's claim that this clause permitted a new 
round of negotiations a misunderstanding. 


Members of the Friends of Hillhouse argue 
that the agreement lacks schedules and proce-
dures, and that its legal status is questionable. 


Many of the Friends of Hillhouse's com-
plaints center on the role of the Trust's Presi-
dent. "The plan was sprung on us," says one 
Trust Director, bookseller Nolan Smith. 
Another Director, Jack Gold, notes that Bot-
tomley's firm has done design work for the 
University and for Yale-New Haven Hospital. 
"I think that there are some clear confiias of 
interests on the board," he says. 


"I don't harbor any bitterness," says Bot-
tomley. "It's wonderful that there is so much 
interest in this issue." He denies having pres-
sured anyone into the agreement. "There was 
a three-hour meeting," he says, adding that 
copies of the agreement were mailed in 
advance to all board members. As foe the 
charge of a conflict of interest, Bottomley says 
his professional involvements were never a 
secret. "It's hard to be in this town and not 
have anything to do with Yale," says Bottom-
ley, a former Whiffenpoof. In the agreement 
he sees a chance to bring new clout to an 
organization that has lost more than half of its 
nearly 1,000 members in the last decade, and 
which has not had a full-time director in 
years. 


The tensions within the preservation 
community carne to the surf.l.ce at the 
State Historical Commission meeting 
in September. The Commission had to decide 
whether Yale's proposal to demolish Maple 
Cottage was "unreasonable" and then forward 
its recommendation to the State Attorney 
General for action. Both sides made long pre-
sentations; Grzywacz joined Yale representa-
tives and lawyers in vaunting Yale's record in 
preserving buildings like Linsly-Chittenden 
on Old Campus, while members of the 
Friends of Hillhouse defended Maple Cottage 
and suggested that Yale had acted in bad faith. 
Yale 
Assistant Vice 
President 
Michael 
Morand, who ·works at the Office of New 
Haven and State Affairs, characterized the 
Friends of Hillhouse as paranoid. "There 
aren't any great conspiracies at work on this 
one," he says. Nonetheless, the Friends of 
Hillhouse argued suCCC!)Sfully that Yale and 
the Trust had not done enough research to 
determine the house's true value. The Com-
mission and Yale agreed that Yale will have 
until November 4 to assemble an indepen-
dent evaluation of the house and a more thor-
ough set of plans for the site. 


As President of the Trust, Bottomley is 
visibly proud of an agreement that produced a 
congratulatory letter from the President of the 
National Trust for Historic Preservation. It 
was a step into the limelight for an organiza-
tion best known for the oval plaques on scores 
of buildings around the city. And Grzywacz, 
who also chairs the Trust's Preservation Action 
Committee, enjoys the new, more personal 
relationship he has with Yale administrators 
after years of being ignored. Gnywacz now 
meets with Yale officials on a monthly basis. 
"Very frequently I'll be called [by Yale] once a 
week, just an informal telephone call," he 
says. Committed to the agreement in writing 
and in spirit, the New Haven Preservation 
Trust finds itself standing in for Yale in the 
battle against an activist wing of the preserva-
tion movement. 


Divide and conquer. It's worked for lead-
ers cannier than Richard Levin, and against 
opponents more fearsome than the New 
Haven Preservation Trust. But as the preserva-
tion community remains divided, Yale finds 
itself with allies and enemies in New Haven. 
Associate Vice President Dawkins winces at 
the mention of the many hours that Yale's 
new policy of community engagement has 
cost him. Nevertheless, he continues to meet 
with members of the Friends of Hillhouse, 
while his office maintains a close relationship 
with the Trust. Dawkins is frustrated by the 
delay in demolition, but he still supports the 
University's new direction. "What it demon-
strates is Yale's good intention," says Dawkins. 
And it is to the credit ofYale's new communi-
ty relations strategy that each preservationist 
&ction speaks of Dawkins with respect. As 
Yale and New Haven begin to move beyond 
their cautious overtures, the moment may 
have finally arrived when New Haven will 
abandon Yale as an all-purpose enemy, and 
accept the university as a powerful, if calculat-
ing, ally. 


Ill) 
Bm Smith is a smior in Mort( Co/kg(.


**Thanks**
**Author: The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 20**

Shruti Adhar 
Alec Hanley Bemis 
Daniel Brook 
Nathan Brown 
Michael Braun 
Jesse Dillon 
Chris Fregiato 
Marisa Galvez 
CNB & Gelf 
Makiko Harunari 
Rita Jules 
Anya Kamenetz 
Julia Kardon 
Margot Meitner 
Steven Parks 
The Peacock Sisters 
Eric Rothfeder 
Darby Saxbe 
Dr. Bernard Schenkman 
Jeff Seymour 
Amy Shapiro 
Ben Smith 
Tamara Sussman 
John Swansburg 
Vincent Giroud 
Jayme Yen 
Tim Young 


Fall Fashion 
Preview '98 
Boss
~ 
HUGO 
BOSS


THE BEST JAPANESE RESTAURANT 
Enjoy a wonderful variety of fresh Sushi and 
traditional Japanese dishes. 
1206 Dixwell Ave., Hamden 
(across from Chimney Square) 
Open for Dinner Seven Days a Week 
Dinner Sunday-Thursday 5-9:30pm 
Friday & Sat11rday 5-lO:OOpm 
Lunch Monday-Friday 11:30-2:30pm 
281-4542 


jewelry • natural fiber 
clothing • Crabtree 
& Evelyn • 
toiletries 
pottery • and 
presents for 
children of all 
HAMDEN PLAZA 
2100 Dixwell Ave, Hamden 
230-0039 • open 7 days 


DONUTS • MUFFINS • BAGELS • SANDWICHES • COOKIES 
DUNKIN 
DONUTS® 
IN YALE AT CHAPEL l PARK 
1179 CHAPEL STREET, NEW HAVEN 
$1.18 pMmx 
MEDIUM COFFEE and... 
Batel, Muffin, or Donut 
YALE ONLY Ia it7l CHAPS. ST •• NEW HNEN 
UMfT ONE <l'FER WITH CCU'OO. CI£AM OEESE ~ 
BUTTER EXTRA. CMNJT BE 
COOLATTA • COFFEE • HOT CHOCOLATE • SODA • JUICE 



**Title: FAMILY PoRTRAIT**
**Author: Michael Braun**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
M
ichael Braun's father was diagnosed 
with multiple sclerosis when Michael 
was six years old. These pictures were taken 
13 years later, in the. winter of 1997, when 
the. lifestyle dictated by illness had been 
adopted by the family and had long since 
become second nature. 

It's a fairly simple task to photograph 
one's family. It is far more difficult to make 
a picture that extends beyond-pervasive 
familial cliches. Michael manages to 
capture intimate, heartbreaking moments, 
as well as convey their everyday nature. 
This is, as he puts it, "what has settled 
under the air in my house." He succeeds in 
touching upon the complex and weighty 
relationship that exists between husband 
and wife-but not forcefully. I am struck 
by the love with which these photographs 
are so apparently made, drawn as they are 
by the touch that only a son could have-
an interpretation only he could provide. 
-Hrishikesh Hirway 
Michael Braun is a junior in Trumbull 
Colkge. Hrishiltesh Hirway, a junior in 
Morse Co/.kge, is designn of TN]. 


**Title: Untitled**
**Author:  (No author listed)**
**Page number(s): 23**

Ocrona 9, 1998 



**Title: 0croBER 9, 1998**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
0croBER 9, 1998 





--- Page 26 ---

The Futures Market 
Dimes, quarters, lunatic change ... 
-James Merrill, Pulitzer Prize-winning 
poet and son of Merrill Lynch founder 
Charles Merrill 
Daniel Brook 
I
t was not the first time I had attended a mid-September meeting 
hold their receptions at XandO. I wonder if the firms who go there pre-
at Yale where the "facilitator," hoping to attract new blood, had 
tend they're "indie" like XandO does-none of those long lists of cities 
bragged about his organization's "open, non-hierarchical struc- . 
with branch offices in their ads. "Wow, those firms must really hate 
cure." But this wasn't YHHAP and it wasn't SLAC and it 
hierarchy," I thought, but Merrill Lynch's anarchical tendencies will 
would have taken a lot more than my gin and tonic to a---
have to suffice tonight. 
help me imagine this guy in anything other than a~~ 
~--alii:-~ 
It would make my interviewing easier, at least. 
gray suit and wing-tips. If he was fighting the ~ 
il'·~'ii~···- ~ 
There wouldn't be all that pressure to barge up to 
power, he was doing it wearing a power tie. ~~ ~,.- ..,. .. ~···"f~ 
the front of the room and take up Mr. Ken-
But if he was trying to stick it to the Man, he ~~ 
1r 
~ 
4~ 
ney's-I mean, Jerry's-precious time. I'm 
came to the right place. Rumor has it that w~~ 
,, '"~~~ .... ,~ 
sure Jerry is like those ex-hippie teachers I 
whenever the Man comes to New Haven, 11.1 ._11,1 
'Iff, ~~ ~'~"W 
~' used to have who let you call them by 
he stops in for an after-dinner drink at 1J -·~ 
'fll~~.; ,.-~\ their first names just to be non-hierarchi-
the Graduate Club. P~~g the Man 1118r 
· .... ~~~i Ill\ cal. I wonder who hares hierarchy 
was not new to our facilitator; he had \ll•l 
~ 
·-••r ··~IJ more-Jerry Kenney, Jerry of Ben and 
been doing it all his life. 
~4 
I Jerry's, or Jerry Garcia? But why should I 
This was Jerry Kenney (SY '63), Yale ~~-·' 
~,.__-__,/ even need to ask? I could talk to the little 
Man and Senior Vice President at Merrill ·"'·l 
·~ 
~J!f.1J people, since Merrill Lynch grants them 
Lynch, whose official title and salary are ~Z 
.. \ 
~ 
1 a... 
~ 
Z'....Jti/J so much autonomy. And they won't l>e 
matched only by his unofficial position as ~~ ~-
1• 1 ._....._ 
• 
hard to find either. The company brought 
head of Yale-Merrill Lynch relations. In 1963 ~ '•.J!•' ........... ':( • 
up loads of them from New York, recent Yale 
he got his "senior haircut," bopped a train to 
~--·-~il- V/ 
grads all. 
Grand Central, and never looked back. He was a ~8...:: ··~,~~ 
But they were a tight-lipped bunch. I tried to 
king-maker (and queen-maker-Merrill Lynch loves 
~-~~ 
interview two women from the class of '98, but they 
diversity as much as it hates hierarchy) and his audience was 
suggested I talk to more senior people. I tried another but he 
filled with many a handsome young prince(ss). But these young royals 
had strict orders from his non-hierarchical supervisors ("Comrades," I 
may have more in common with Czarevich Alexei, the Russian heir 
think they're called). "We were told we can't say anything about this 
who ended his brief life riddled with Bolshevik bullets at the bottom of 
[to] newspapers," he said. Finally, I found someone who was more than 
a mineshafts, than with a young Louis XIY. No, the revolution is not 
happy to talk. He claimed that the global economic downturn was hav-
coming, but on Wall Street the sky may be falling. 
ing no effect on recruiting and that there was no noticeable change in 
I wanted to find out how the Asian flu (not to mention the Russian 
mood at the office. But Friday's Nnu York Times reported that Citicorp 
flu or the Latin American flu) was affecting investment bank recruit-
would lay off scores of its financial services workers, and last week's 
ment. I thought this would be easier than it turned out to be. First of 
Time featured an article from a hedge fund manager entitled "Fear 
all, I wouldn't have to travd. Why go to Wall Street when Wall Street 
Reigns On The Floor?" (they even put "Reigns" in red). As I worked 
comes to you? And I wouldn't have any trouble finding a recepcion-I 
the room, I realized that the article described the atmosphere on the 
just picked up the YDN and read only the full-page ads. Merrill Lynch 
Boor of the Graduate Club as well as it did the New York Stock 
was coming to town, specifically to the Graduate Club, the usual place 
Exchange. 
for good old-fashioned good old boy networking. I've beard some firms 
Claudine Rippa works full-time as a recruiter for the firm's debt 
Tm NEW JouRNAL 


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Daniel Brook**
**Page number(s): 27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Corporate officm at M~rrill Lynch, as pictur~d in th~ir "Clear and Simple" guide to th~ Company. 
markets department. She seemed like just the person to talk to. But she 
wasn't; she was downright hostile. If everyone's character was so perfectly 
summed up by their last name, life would be a lot easier. She had 
been duough the recession of the early '90s and the Clinton~era boom 
and maintained that recruiting was never affected. "There are no problems here," she snipped. When pressed, she admitted they were now 
"assessing" because there was "concern," but she didn't anticipate any 
cuts.


Again I changed my strategy. I decided not to look for a person 
from any particular age group or department. Rather, I decided to talk 
to someone who looked nice. I found a middle~aged man who told me 
the new bankers in his department were scared and confused by the 
market fluctuations. "They're asking, 'What does this all mean?' and 
'What's going to happen to us?"' He, however, was completely at ease. 
It seemed he had even skipped yesterday's round of mandatory haircuts 
that had been inflicted on all the other gendemen in the room. Probably 
out playing with his kids.


For the younger employees, a job at Merrill Lynch would preclude 
having a dog, let alone kids or anything else that might require care. I 
overheard a young man nun down a date because it conflicted with his 
"sell dinner." I must admit that I was unfamiliar with the term and 
thought at first it might be "cell dinner." They both seemed equally fitting. In many ways, in fact, the lifestyle of an !~banker is like that of a 
prison inmate, minus all the play. Maybe it was a reference to a monk 
cdl, which would explain the celibacy and the boring haircuts, too.


Ironically, the firm's official materials did not attempt to hide how 
its employees lived. In the recruiting film, a young man bragged about 
working from ten am to six am. Another admitted that "you can't plan 
anything" in your social life. The glossy companion brochure contained 
a close~up of a few Boors of the World Trade Center at dawn. A number 
of offices still had the lights on, framing silhouetted !~bankers hard 
at work.


M
y hunch that fewer and fewer of these covered offices would 
be available this year had still not been confirmed. By this 
rime the reception was breaking up and I was resigned to 
going against the grain and embracing hierarchy-! had to interview 
Ocrosu 9, 1998 
the big cheese. Before I knew it, I was face to face with Jerry Kenney. I 
had no journalistic tricks up my sleeve; I was going to put it to him 
straight. Besides, Jerry had already acknowledged the problems in the 
global economy. When he reached the part of his presentation about 
Merrill Lynch's $1.4 trillion in assets, he joked that it was "lower this 
month than before summer vacation." Talk about the wrong joke for 
this crowd-he didn't receive a single laugh. Sometimes the best way to 
break some bad news is with a joke, and for Jerry there was no covering 
up the bad news. He believed in the Five Values of Merrill Lynch, and 
number five was Integrity. 
"Do market fluctuations affect recruiting?" I asked. 
"They do," he replied, not realizing how many of his underlings l 
had denied this basic fact. Like the all~American father explaining the ~ 
ins and outs of a carburetor to his son, he gave me a man~t~man on ~ 
the global economy. During growth you need more people, but in "terrible" markets you may have to lay people off. "I guess it will be a year ~ 
of reduced recruiting all over Wall Street," he concluded, estimating ~ 
that Merrill Lynch would have about 150 spaces in its 1999 "class." I 
remembered that earlier in the evening I had spoken with a member of ~ 
the class of '97 who told me he'd trained with 400 recruits. This year ~ 
250 are out with the Asian Bu.


I considered going back to Ms. Rippa and informing her that the 
Bossman had contradicted her, but frankly, I was scared of her. Besides, 
the night was winding down. The seniors were going back to their econ 
homework, the young bankers were packing up for New York, and the 
Man was going back to his house in the suburbs. Before leaving I went 
back up to Jerry and thanked him for being so forduight. "The clients 
know, so you gotta be honest," he told me. At least one man still 
believed in Value Number Five.


As I walked back up Elm Street toward Yale, I tooko~t the recruit~ 
ment materials I had picked up at the beginning of the night. I looked 
at the glossy red portfolio, e:xpect:ing to see it emblazoned with the Mer~ 
rill Lynch slogan, "We're bullish on the future." There was no text; that 
slogan went down with the stock market. The slogan was gone, the 
brash, youthful confidence was gone, only the bull remained. 
IIIJ 
Dani~l Brook is a junior in Davmport Co/kg~. 



**Title: THE CRITICAL ANGLE**
**Author: Dan Kellum**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Great Expectations 
LYN ES' PROVOCATI VE PHOTOGRAPHS REVEAL A TIMELESS DRIVE. 
by Dan Kellum 
... 
George Platt Lynes Returns To Yale, exhibit at Beinecke Rare 
Book & Manuscript Library and jonathan Edwards College. 
Through October 30th. 
"This place is infuriating," George Platt 
Lynes wrote of Yale to Gertrude Stein in 
1926. "The conventions begin nowhere in 
particular and are perfectly endless. This after-
noon I had expounded to me the only way 
that one might be eccentric and live. By insin-
uating oneself quietly into 'the group,' by 
writing and publishing a few 'charming' lines 
in the Lit, {a supposedly-literary monthly 
which avowedly refuses to be alive), by sub-
mitting so thoroughly to the custom and con-
vention that the student has created to protect 
himself from all but a little harmless com-
ments that one has experienced it all, one may 
depart a little (very little) from the accus-
tomed ways .. .And. I CANNOT DO IT. And 
there is no other way ... so MUCH FOR YALE!" 
Lynes had met Miss Stein, as he addressed 
her in his early .letters, the previous summer in 
Paris. He had been at Yale for a little over two 
months. From school, he envisioned Stein as 
his mentor in bohemianism, enamored as he 
was of her talent and connections. This was 
before the publication of The Autobiography of 
Alice B. Toklas and before Stein had become a 
household name. He solicited her opinions of 
his work, including in his letters poems that 
Stein seems to have thought little of. 
In the '20s, Lynes fancied himself a bud-
ding writer, a furure member of a vanguard 
community, and his letters from this period 
are insistent in their literary pretensions (sin-
gle-word sentences punctuate his letters, an 
arch dismissal of middle-class expectations 
circulates throughout). Judging from his epis-
tolary style it would seem he had already 
assumed be would be the doquenc voice of an 
insillgent generation. Uorevered and utterly 
miserable, he lefr the university just before the 
end of his first term. 


Lynes' career seems predicated on this 
shirking of his Northeastern upper-middle 
class roots-his father, too, was a Yalie-for 
the more progressive lifestyle lived out in Paris 
and New York by such avant-garde luminaries 
as Stein, Paul Cadmus, and Jean Cocteau. In 
fact, he gave up his literary ambitions, possi-
bly at Stein's suggestion, for photographic 
ones, an interest sparked by the gifr of a Dear-
born camera in 1927 and the publication of 
his first formal portrait of Stein in 1931. 

It was an auspicious career move. Lynes' 
poetry, or what remains of it in manuscript, is 
derivative and boring. His photographs are 
original-he invented the backlighting so art-
fully used by Richard Avedon-and shocking 
for his time in their display of frank homo-
eroticism. To contemporary viewers, when 
the male body is more ubiquitously sexual-
ized, it may be difficult to gauge how contro-
versial these images were. Set in the context of 
the '30s and '40s, it is easy to see his pho-
tographs not as dreamy dements in a surreal 
tableau, but as intimate portraits of idealized 
figures depicting ineyplicable and closeted 
desires. Looking at the photographs, admiring 
their candor, it is no wonder that Dr. Alfred 
Kinsey (the author of the ever-cited Kinsey 
Rrpo~ acquired many of Lynes' nudes in the 
early '50s for his institute in Indiana. 
The exhibition "George Platt Lynes 
Returns to Yale" uses funds from Jonathan 
Edwards College and photographs from Bei-
nccke Library, and is housed in both loca-
tions. This splitting of Lynes' work makes 
both exhibits somewhat small, with the sad 
consequence that the viewer is never able to 
confront all the images at once. Comprehend-
ing Lynes' work becomes something less pub-
lic than intimate, a personal exploration of the 
materials at hand. The exhibition demon-
strates Lynes' virtuousity. There are sumptu-
ous and seamless fashion shots where perfec-
tion seems to be met in the shimmer of light 
f.illing off fur and tropical wool, where men 
and women of ideal proportions confront a 
world of flawless interiors. 


Then, too, there are images of Lynes' liter-
ary friends, ranging from an austere, biblio-
philic Evelyn Waugh, to a shon-trousered, 
domestic Christopher Isherwood, to a man-
De!M, abject Dorothy Parker. Lynes wanted 
to be a writer for most of his young life. As a 
consequence, in the years after Yale he 
befriended budding and established talents, 
using them later as photographic subjects. 
Encapsulating the likes of Andre Gide and W. 
H. Auden, Lynes presented his admiration for 
the writing life, and the individuals talented 
enough to live it. 
According to friend and subject Donald 
Wmdham, Lynes made little distinction 
between the work he did for fashion maga-
zines and his largely unexhibited male nudes. 
During his lifetime, Lynes published his 
nudes only abroad, in the German homoerot-
ic magazine Der Kries, and there only under 
the pseudonyms Roberto Rolf and Roben 
Orville. The nudes are some of the most com-
pelling works in the show. In a moment of 
self-conscious dejection, a naked man tucks 
himself into a ball on a diving board. ln 
another, a pair of barely pubescent boys build 
an acrobatic bridge, backbending off one 
another in front of a timeless gray screen. The 
pictures are strange and beautiful because we 
are unaccustomed to seeing men in such posi-
tions. Vulnerable and vanquished, two men 
lie naked over one another in a hospital bed, a 
mess of interlocking muscles, appendages cov-
ered in bandages. Contemplative and quiet, 
one man stands, back to the camera, staring 
out at a manipulated image of the sea. 


In the freeness with which Lynes explores 
the male form, his works invoke classical 
motifs, yet there is something particularly 
anti-classical about the presentation of men in 
Lynes' photographs. In Greek sculpture hair 
was removed, lest it prevent a proper presenta-
tion of the musculature; here the models 
remain unshaven, a fact that creates provoca-
tive, discomfiting images. The naked man 
staring off at the ocean has a smattering of 
thick black hair on his upper thighs. In the 
gymnastic photograph, a faint suggestion of 
pubic hair crowns the top of the bodily con-
figuration, reminding the viewer that these 
bodies are not merely beautiful, but sexual. 
Their subjects are not meant to be adored, not 
merely admired. 


In the authorial portraits and the nudes, 
the viewer is confronted by the artist's long-
ings--to be a writer, and to express what was 
inexpressible at the time: Lynes' homosexual 
desires. In his Mythology Project-a series of 
surrealized figures from Greek myths-it is as 
if Lynes were pushing the boundaries of artifi-
ciality in his work, exposing the makeup he 
used on his models and studio-set environ-
ments in which he took all his pictures. He 
attempts to set his work free from temporal 
constraint, invoking the timelessness of myth. 
In so doing he creates photographs that seem 
more time-specific (think Edwardian melo-
drama) than any of his other work. Desire 
tranScends time; Lynes' veneration for old sto-
ries does not. 


In this exhibit, George Platt Lynes returns 
to Yale as the artist he aspired to be during his 
brief academic tenure here. His work rebuts 
the controlled society his classmates endured, 
moving as they did through the ranks of Yale 
society, quiedy accepting the norms and rules 
that older students had lain out before 
them-the rules of conduct Lynes dismissed 
as "so dull and stupid you could not imagine," 
in his first letter to Stein from Yale on Octo-
ber 5, 1926. Perhaps there is something relat-
ed in the matrix of homoerotic desire, self-
conciousness, and Lynes' need to rebel against 
the life his parents planned for him. Perhaps it 
is the hallmark of his art that Lynes focused 
on his desires, the desires that must have 
seemed so at odds with what others ex~ed 
ofhim. 
181 
Dan Kellum, a senior in Silliman College, is a 
managing editor of TNJ. 


**Title: The Starr Chamber**
**Author: Ian Blecher**
**Page number(s): 30**

TALKSHOW HOST GLENN BECK SPINS THE STARR REPORT 
AS DAILY DIATRIBE AND ONGOING RADIO DRAMA. 
by Ian Blecher 
While most of the country finds 
the president not guilty by reason of 
inanity, an unregenerate few remain 
resolute unto resignation: the men of 
talk radio. 

Here in New Haven, WELI 
AM-960 has pre-empted its mind-numbing News at Noon with "The 
Impeachment of Character," a program dedicated entirely to hemming . 
and hawing the president out of office. Glenn Beck, who narrates the 
ride to work for WELI's FM affiliate, KC-101, has given up his lunch 
hour to host the show. Maybe host isn't the right word. Beck doesn't 
take callers, interview experts, or prattle with his usual KC 101· buds 
about traffic-girl Heather Scott's new outfit. He hardy even analyzes the 
news. Mostly, he just reads the Starr Report, uncut, in order. 


The show is not as boring as it sounds. As he has plumbed deeper 
into Clinton's sewage, Beck has cleaned up his impersonations. The 
president now sounds like a perverted cracker, Vernon Jordan an idiotic 
Uncle Tom, and Monica Lewinsky a Jewish American Princess who fell 
off the short bus on the way to the special school. Complete with stock 
characters and improvised dialogue, "The Impeachment of Character" 
is like a radio play out of the 1930s. However, back then when you 
turned on the radio, you did not hear obscenities like penis and vagina 
and cigar. The show is certainly offensive, but no one seems more 
offended by it than Beck himself, who calls the report "vile," and even 
refused to mention the cigar story when it first broke. So why does 
Beck spread the poison? 

I drove to WELI's studios in Hamden to find out. Beck looks as 
intimidating as he sounds, 6'4" with icy eyes and a paunch that will 
probably keep him off television. When I met him, he was wearing a 
baggy gray sweatsuit and an old-fashioned Yale jacket. I asked him what 
he thought of the president's grand jury testimony. "The tape shouldn't 
have come out," he said, taking a strange position for a guy who's made 
it his job to publicize the scandal. But for Beck, Clinton's legal maneu-
verings hurt the country as badly as his sexual indiscretions. "We're 
involved with a president who's a lawyer, not a leader," he said. "It is 
high time we start searching for a stronger leader." 

You'd think so, wouldn't you? But what about that pesky 69 percent 
of Americans who don't want the lawyer-in-chief impeached? "It's like 
the debate on whether parents matter. It's an excuse for parents who 
aren't spending the time. We impose those same standards on the presi-
dency. We're looking for absolution." 

Beck may be looking for absolution himself. Last year he hosted an 
amorphous call-in program on 
WELI that pre-empted the first 
hour of the immensely popular Dr. 
Laura. To make matters worse, his 
opinions were so abrasive and he 
was so nasty to dissenting callers 
that, after a few weeks, his was almost the only voice. Augustinian arias 
on ethical discordances in Beck's own past swelled into choruses of 
moral indignation. He once asked a caller to read the ten command-
ments over the air as Beck tallied the ones he'd broken. He had broken 
most of them, as it turned out-at least as many as Clinton has. As the 
callers dropped off, he filled the air more and more with random self-
deprecating/self-righteous revelations. The show was short-lived. 


"The Impeachment of Character" is more titillating than Beck's 
earlier attempt, a sort of public confessional for America. Unlike the 
president's defenders, Beck isn't going to make it easy for us: the viler 
the report, the dumber his Lewinsky, the more unctuous his Jordan, 
and the slimier his Clinton. Beck lingers over every lie like a fine meal 
before a guilt-emptying purge. 

So what prevents the show from becoming as lascivious as the pres-
ident? In the end, the scandal Beck dramatizes is a play within a larger 
play about its narrator. Beck's trudge from moral ambiguity to moral 
superiority culminates in judgement of the president, the country, and 
himself. And not for sexual dysfunction-Beck takes that sort of sin for 
granted. "Personal life," he said, "is one thing. The problem is perjury." 

The moral question here isn't about sin but whether we talk honestly 
and openly about it. The inner comedy about Monica and Bill may be 
bawdy and repugnant, but the outer tragedy about Glenn is cathartic 
and edifying. 

Its dialectical structure finally saves "The Impeachment of Charac-
ter" from the obvious hypocrisy of teaching morality by publicizing a 
salacious scandal. The show isn't about a scandal so much as a scandal's 
negation. Beck's rendition of the Starr Report could only be a farce. To 
take the Report on its own, as a dry legal document, would be to cave 
in to the president's miasma of half-truths and jargon. As a comedy, the 
Report comes on the scene already unravelled by morality. By turn, the 
outer drama of Beck's own struggle depends on some kind of inner 
guilt to lament. For him, it seems, the real problem with the unmoved 
69 percent of us is not that we lack a sense of what's right, but that we 
lack a sense of what's wrong. We may agree that lying is bad, but we 
don't think the scandal ought to have happened in the first place. For 
Beck, however, there is no first place without a scandal. 
IIIJ 
Ian Blecher, a junior in Davenport College, is on the staff of TNJ. 
OCTOBER 9, 1998 



**Store Hours**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 31**

Store Hours 
Monday thru Friday 
7am-7pm 
Saturday 
9am-Spm 
Sunday 
10am-4pm 
Staples, 84 Whalley Ave., New Haven, CT • 773-3353 


