Publication date: January 30, 1982
Volume: 14
Issue number: Four

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Ed Bennett
- Editor-in-Chief: Andy Court
- Designers: Heidi Callison, Matthew Gaynor
- Business Manager: Jeff Foster
- Production Manager: Jane Hinson
- Photo Editor: Rollin Riggs
- Staff: Serena Collison, Geoff Hayward, Paul Hofheinz, Walter Jacob, Jim Lowe, Tim Misner, Geoff Pope, Alex Savich, Sloan Walker
- Friends: Edward B. Bennett, Jr., Nancy R. Bennett, Peter B. Cooper, Sherwin Goldman, Brooks Kelley, Lewis E. Lehrman, Nicholas X. Rizopoulos, Richard and Deborah Sears, Richard Shield, Thomas Strong, Alex Torello, Allen and Sarah Wardwell, Daniel Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- About this Issue - January 30, 1882
- Letters: Women's Studies
- Comment: The Law School; Language Requirement
- Giamatti, the Moral Majority, and the debate that wasn't
- An interview with Kingman Brewster
- Profile: Schoolfield: a scholar who dabbles in decadence
- Research: Why women work for less
- Sports: The team that Taylor built
- Theatre: Two theaters, two strategies
- Books: Rhyming for a reason


**Title: About this Issue**
**Author: The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 3**

Since our masthead lists many new 
names this issue, we decided to 
explain what it all means. 

The people listed as friends 
contributed money or time to The 
New Journal and we wanted to give 
them special recognition and thanks. 
For example, Nicholas X. Rizopoulos 
('58) has been an ally of The New 
Journal since 1967, and has most 
recently provided useful advice and 
helped us raise funds. Peter B. 
Cooper ('64 Law) is a New Haven 
lawyer who handles our legal affairs 
free of charge. 

Heidi Callison and Matthew 
Gaynor have been elected as the 
magazine's new designers. Both are 
senior Art majors concentrating in 
graphic design. They designed much 
of our December issue and are 
responsible for the changes in this 
issue. 

We've also elected several new Staff 
members. People are eligible for Staff 
after they have worked on a variety 
of aspects of the magazine for two 
issues. This brief trial period gives 
people a chance to see what we're all 
about before making a commitment. 
It also gives them a sense of exactly 
what's involved in publishing a 
magazine. 

There is a great deal involved, and 
we are constantly looking for 
creative, aggressive people to work 
with us. We're especially looking for 
experienced photographers and 
people with a background or interest 
in business. If you are interested, call 
Photography Editor, Rollin Riggs at 
432-0470, or Business Manager, Jeff 
Foster at 432-0050.


**Title: The debate that wasn't: Giamatti and the Moral Majority**
**Author: [Author not listed]**
**Page number(s): 1**

The debate that wasn't: 
Giamatti and the Moral Majority 


**Food is Good; Drink is Good**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Food is Good 
Drink is Good 
We serve both ..... . 
comfortably. 


**How law school limits one's view**
**Author: Steve Epstein**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Comment ___ _ 
How law school 
limits one's view 
Steve Epstein 
In September, 1980, Dean Wellington 
gave his annual welcoming speech to 
the incoming Yale Law School class, 
'my class. All I remember of Dean 
Wellington's speech was his assertion 
that we would no longer be poets or 
pianists, that now we would learn to be 
lawyers. 

My immediate reaction was refusal: 
I would continue to write, and I hoped 
every musician in the Law School con-
tinued to play. But later I learned that 
Dean Wellington did not mean that 
law school should ftll every moment of 
our lives; in response to a student pro-
test of the prior year, he meant to in-
form us that Yale Law School intended 
to teach law, and had no obligation to 
teach anything else. 

For me, though, Dean Wellington's 
words remain a symbol of the central 
problem of law school life: the tension 
between sincerely studying law and be-
ing able to escape the law student's 
limited world view. 

Our professors tell us they intend to 
teach us to "think like lawyers," which 
means 
to 
rationally 
apply 
legal 
categories to human situations. Two 
kinds of everyday thought aren't part 
of that process: non-rational thinking 
and thinking outside the legal system. 
Intuition, emotion and faith have no 
use in legal thinking. And morality, 
politics, and other ideological systems 
are irrelevent to legal decisions such as 
a jury's determin~tion of guilt or in-
nocence. 

Admittedly, the reason for having 
judges and lawyers "think like lawyers" 
is to prevent anarchy. But in studying 
law, we start to think that way all the 
time. It's hard not to; once you think 
like a lawyer, everything can be dealt 
with quite neatly and rationally. Mter 
a few weeks of school, law students ·go 
to fewer concerts, read fewer novels 
and newspapers, and talk almost ex-
clusively about law, because occur-
rences outside the legal framework 
have become less significant than those 
within. 

As I write this, I am acutely con-
scious that my ideas sound speculative, 
that I can't prove them, and that 
therefore they are un-law-student-like 
ideas. But if you think like a lawyer, 
you won't get angry: 
Let's try w understand our areas of difference. 
You won't fall in love : 
I don~ have tirru to get involved with him/her 
ril]ht now. 
You won't be amazed: 
The sun is coming up, I ought w eat 
breakfast. 

Dean Wellington's words remind me 
that you can't be a poet or pianist 
without getting angry, or falling in 
love, or being filled with wonder. 
Something essential to human life is 
Walter Jacob 
lost when emotions, intuition, and em-
pathy are abandoned. But law school 
thinking has a 
fascination which 
crowds out the non-rational. What can 
be thought of in legal terms is thought 
of in that way. What can't be thought 
of in legal terms isn't thought of at all. 

Dedication to ideological convictions 
is also discouraged by legal thinking. 
In law school, we learn that any view 
or action which isn't overtly illegal is 
justifiable as far as the legal system is 
concerned. As a result, we become 
cynical. If any point of view can be 
supported or attacked, it doesn't mat-
ter which side you're on. And if either 
side is acceptable, you may as well 
work for someone who will pay a lot of 
money. Last year, a lawyer from a 
public interest group in Washington, 
D .C. spoke of a survey which found 
that 80 per cent of entering Yale law 
students say they want to do public in-
terest work, and that 80 per cent of 
graduating Yale law students take 
lucrative jobs with firms and corpora-
tions. 

Of course, there are law students 
who act on political ideologies; in Oc-
tober, 40 of them picketed a panel 
discussion of terrorism which was 
dominated by 
conservatives and 
chaired by the CIA's Chief Counsel. 
Some law students (and professors) 
continue to pursue their artistic in-
terests; 
Professors Boris Bittker 
sculpts, and Professor Charles Black 
paints. And some law students even 
fall in love. 

The effects of law school, though, 
can be invidious. Until recently, I had 
thought that my interests outside law 
school kept me from being affected. 
But a friend of mine read a draft of this 
essay and informed me that it aptly 
describes the way I think. 

So law school frightens me. It makes 
sense that law school teaches me to 
think like a lawyer, rather than like a 
poet or pianist; 
I'm learning to 
analyze, define, and argue legal issues 
with great effectiveness. But a by-
product of the learning process is that 
my ideals and other aspects of my 
humanity are clouded. The question I 
ask myself: When I graduate, and 
receive a diploma conferring signifi-
cant power in our society, will I still 
have non-legal qualities and convic-
tions on which to stand? 

Steve Epstein is in his stcond year at Yale 
Law School. 


**Prerequisites for a language requirement**
**Author: Jim Lowe**
**Page number(s): 6**

Prerequisites 
for a language 
requirement 
Jim Lowe 
The choices you will malce during these next 
years at Yale will on?J be versions of choices 
you will malce once you graduate. You lcnow 
best what you want . . . Learning how to 
malce informed choices is one way to describe 
education; in fact, this is what we hope will 
go on while you are here. 

These are the words of President A. 
Bartlett Giamatti in his letter to the 
freshmen in this year's Old Campus. Yet 
at the same time that these words were 
written and distributed to the class of 
1985, a committee of Faculty and Ad-
ministration officials was considering 
limiting the choices President Giamatti 
wants us to be able to make. At present 
the University Course of Study Com-
mittee is considering instituting a 
foreign language requirement for 
graduates and also possibly setting pro-
ficiency levels for applicants. 

If these requirements pass it will not 
be the first time in recent years that the 
college has put restrictions on the 
academic freedom of undergraduates. 
Just three years ago the Group IV 
distributional group requirement was 
added, and more recently the College 
has reduced the number of Residential 
College Seminars that can be taken. 

There are a number of problems 
with such a language requirement pro-
posal. Of greatest concern to me is the 
restriction such an additional require-
ment would place on the academic 
freedom of Yale students. I have 
nothing against the study of language, 
indeed I studied French for six years, 
and I agree that it is an important part 



**Title: A Language Requirement?**
**Author: Jim Lowe**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
of an educational experience. However,
I also think that it is important 
that each student be able to choose 
whether he or she wishes to study a 
foreign language. 

As President 
Giamatti said, making choices is an 
important part of our education and 
the College should thus provide as 
many choices as possible. Additionally,
when a student is forced to take a 
course, 
his attitude 
will 
almost 
definitely be poor. 

Also, in imposing a language re-
quirement, the University could only 
force a student to take one, or at the 
most two years of a language. How 
much actual linguistic knowledge can 
be gained in such a short time, particularly
by a student who is only 
fulfilling a requirement and has little 
motivation? In addition, where would 
non-language, particularly science, 
majors find the time to fulfill such a re-
quirement? It is ludicrous for the Col-
lege to believe that this extra time will 
just appear for students. Other courses 
will have to go untaken. And as languages
are at this point in Distribu-
tional Group I along with English, 
those trying to fulfill distributional re-
quirements may forego English in 
order to satisfy this new requirement. 
This could be disastrous. Those in 
support of the language requirement 
claim that the study of language is an 
integral part of a liberal education. 
Well, communicating in the English 
language is a critical part of surviving 
in American society, and thus seems 
slightly more important. All this could 
be a reason to create an additional 
English requirement that would further
restrict academic freedom. 

In addition 
to graduation 
re-
quirements, the Committee is considering
whether to institute proficiency levels
for applicants. There is a 
serious problem here. This proposal is 
clearly discriminatory. 

There are 
public school systems in this country 
that cannot possibly afford to offer 
foreign language instruction, and even 
Yale requiring such training for admis-
sion will not change the situation. 
Yet despite these problems there is a 
good chance that some form of require-
ment will be placed in effect. Thus, I 
would like to make a suggestion for the 
levels that might be required. These 
levels should take into account students 
who already have some proficiency 
and those who have limited time due to 
major requirements. 

Harvard appears to have developed 
such a fair system. There the universi-
ty will exempt from the language re-
quirement those with 
a 
foreign 
language achievement score of 560 or 
greater and/or a score of three or better 
on a language Advanced Placement 
Test. Students unable to meet these 
restrictions must take one year of a 
language of their choice. If there must 
be a requirement, this seems to me to 
be a fair system. I hope that the 
University Course of Study Commit-
tee will keep these words in mind as it 
considers whether to further restrict 
the choices available to undergraduates 
in their educational careers here at 
Yale. 

• 
Jim Lowe is a freshman in Morse. 
The opinions expressed in this section 
are those of the individual writers. The 
New Journal welcomes comment on 
Yale and New Haven issues. Send 
proposals to 3432 Yale Station, New 
Haven, CT. 06520. 


**Title: The Debate That Wasn't**
**Author: W. Hampton Sides**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

8 
debate 
that 
wasn't 
W. Hampton Sides 

More than four months after President 
A. Bartlett Giamatti released his con-
troversial address to the freshmen on 
the perils of the "new coercion," the 
Moral Majority was still furious. Cal 
Thomas, Vice President and chief 
spokesman for Moral Majority, Inc., 
spoke stridently in his cramped office 
in Lynchburg, Virginia: "I think Dr. 
Giamatti's refusal 
to debate Dr. 
Falwell or myself- where he made 
these unsubstantiated and scurrilous 
charges- is not in the great tradition of 
Yale University as a seat of free 
thought. 

"I think he is a chicken and I would 
be happy to call that to his face. The 
low class of his remarks leaves me 
nothing to fear from a personal and 
even intellectual confrontation with 
him and I would renew the challenge. I 
think we could present Dr. Falwell up 
there (at Yale)-and he's interested in 
going- if Giamatti would simply stop 
hiding behind the intellectual 
equivalent of his mother's skirts, and 
come out and fight like a man." 

The Political Union invited Presi-
dent Giamatti in September to debate 
Jerry Falwell or Cal Thomas at Yale, 
but Giamatti promptly declined. "I 
have said what I have to say on this 
topic and see no point in pursuing the 
issue any further at this time," wrote 
the President in his letter to Dan 
Williams, former Political Union Vice 
President for Debate. 

The P. U. was not the only organiza-
tion calling at Woodbridge Hall after 
the address. Major network programs 
such as 60 Minutes, Donahue and Today 
phoned the President for interviews, 
sensing an ideological storm brewing 
along the news horizon. But Giamatti 
flatly 
turned 
these 
offers 
down, 
distressing those who had envisioned a 
profitable controversy ringing from the 
gothic towers in New Haven to the 
church-steepled 
hills of southern 
Virginia. "I presume that 60 Minutes 
was intending to cut taped interviews 
of Falwell and myself to present them 
like a debate," said Giamatti. 

For over three months Giamatti 
maintained a conspicuously low pro-
file. Between the release of the speech 
and January of 1982, he made only 
one public reference to the Moral Ma-
jority, which occurred on December 18 
in a Today show interview about the 
President's new book, The University and 
the Public Interest. 

So, long after the liberals applauded 
and the conservatives raged, after 
some had speculated 
that the 
President's fulminous attack on the 
Moral Majority was politically 
motivated and others claimed he had 
not done his homework, the question 
of Giamatti's silence still remained. If 
the Moral Majority posed the threat to 
liberal education that the scope of 
Giamatti's charges and the strength of 
his language indicated, then why did 
the president not continue to speak out 
against these "peddlers of coercion"? 

In his first interview about the 
Moral Majority since the address, 
Giamatti explained his silence. "I saw 
no point in swapping dogmas with 
Falwell or anyone else from the Moral 
Majority," he said. Giamatti felt that 
the debate devised by the P. U. "would 
go nowhere" because there was no pre-
arranged central issue. He said he did 
not consider himself an authority on 
the Moral Majority: "I don't know 
whether the Moral Majority is a foun-
dation, a movement, a legal entity, a 
political action committee- clearly it is 
all of these things." He admitted, 
President Giamatti explained his silence after 
the speech. 

photo: J.D. Levine 


rather candidly, that he had done no 
special research on the organization for 
his address, but had relied instead on 
"what I had already read or seen. 
Intolerant spirit 

"That wasn't a speech about the Moral 
Majority, although the newspapers 
certainly interpreted it as such," ex-
plained the President. He claimed that 
in the address he was not concerned 
with the Moral Majority per se, so 
much as with a "spirit, a gust, an aura 
sweeping the country today that legit-
imizes intolerance ... The Moral 
Majority was only a kind of illustrative 
example of a strand that is pressing 
people in a direction that I didn't think 
was useful to liberal education." 

And while the President wanted to 
make public these concerns, he was 
wary of acquiring a reputation for be-
ing a "single-issue president." He was 
concerned with the Moral Majority 
only insofar as the organization related 
to the broader subject of liberal educa-
tion, his primary interest. 

In fact, Giamatti did not rule out the 
possibility for a debate with Jerry 
Falwell in the future, provided that the 
topic be confined to the principles of a 
liberal education. Giamatti recognized 
that Falwell, aside from being Presi-
dent of Moral Majority and a minister, 
is also an educator in the process of 
building Liberty Baptist College on the 
outskirts of Lynchburg. "I have never 
been shy about talking on the prin-
ciples of a liberal education, and I will 
debate anyone on the subject," said 
Giamatti. The President also men-
tioned William F. Buckley as a possible 
candidate for debate on the subject of 
education. 

The Political Union is pursuing a 
debate that will feature Giamatti and 
another spokesman for liberal educa-
tion, probably Buckley. "I can only say 
that there is a good possibility that 
Giamatti and Buckley will debate this 
term," said Andrea Charters, current 
P.U. Vice President for debate. She 
also said that either Jerry Falwell or 
Cal Thomas would probably appear at 
Yale this term to speak about the 
Moral Majority. 

However popular a debate between 
Giamatti and Buckley will be, it will 
serve as no substitute for the Political 
Union's original plan. The Giamatti-
Falwell conflict had all the makings of a 
classical debate from the very begin-
ning. The New York Times immediate-
ly played up the address as a new of-
fensive in the "ancient battle of creeds," 
pitting secular humanism against 
religious fundamentalism. 

Time 
jumped 
on the inflammatory issue with 
an inset story on Giamatti that was 
headed "A Humanist Hits Back." 

Newsweek read the speech similarly, 
and then two months later presented 
Jerry Falwell in its regular "My Turn" 
column. Newspapers and magazines 
throughout the country were restaging 
the age-old square-off between the 
William Jennings Bryan and the 
Clarence Darrow of the 1980s. 

Although the likelihood of any sort 
of personal confrontation between 
Giamatti and Thomas now appears 
slim, The New Journal was able to talk 
privately with both men about some of 
the issues raised in the freshman ad-
dress. Giamatti in his high-ceilinged 
office 
in Woodbridge Hall and 
Thomas in his tighter, messier room at 
the Moral Majority Headquarters 
voiced many of the same concerns, but 
the two men raised widely different 
arguments about how to interpret the 
freshmen address. 

Imposing morality? 

Giamatti believes that the Moral Ma-
jority frames 
its arguments 
in 
dogmatic language and forms 
its 
judgments out of a rigid moral cast 
that discourages open discussion and 
legitimizes the blind imposition of law 
by decree. "(The Moral Majority) 
would displace law with polyester 
mysticism," he wrote, "and would 
presume to impose a final, complete, 
arbitrary contour on society, and the 
behavior of individuals." 

But Thomas argues that a moral 
viewpoint lies at the root of almost all 
legislation. "The idea of an imposition 
of morality is silly," said Thomas. 
"Because all law is the imposition of 
somebody's morality to the exclusion of 
someone else's. We have laws against 
murder, incest, rape, cannibalism, 
among others; there are a lot of people 
walking around the streets who'd like 
to rape people. There are some that 
do, but there are others who don't 

photo courtesy Moral Majority 
Cal Thomas, vice-president of Communications
for Moral Majority, Inc. 

because they are constrained by a law 
against it. Somebody's morality is be-
ing imposed to keep them from doing 
that." Thomas believes that "secular 
humanist" legislators in Washington 
and in state capitals have imposed their 
morality on the United States for 
decades, 
while 
the majority of 
Americans have silently watched the 
steady erosion of traditional, pro-
family values. 

Giamatti, however, emphasized that 
his concern with the Moral Majority 
was not so much with the substance of 
its views as with the manner in which it 
presents them. "The Moral Majority 
has identified some tremendously im-
portant moral and social problems. I 
don't, 
however, 
happen 
to agree 
necessarily with the terms in which 
they frame their debate. I said in the 
speech that most of their positions I 
fully agreed with and held them too. 
But when you shove people into 
rhetorical corners and push them 
around, that does not allow much 
room to differ ... It was a style, not a 
condition, that I was arguing against," 
he explained. 

Thomas denied that the Moral Ma-
jority uses coercive tactics or religious 
pressure to gain supporters. He re-
peatedly stressed that Moral Majority, 
Inc., is not a religious organization, 
but a political one, composed of a 
variety of faiths, and even agnostics. 
"It doesn't matter a twit to us whether 
they go to church-we want them on 
the issues," said Thomas. 

The Moral Majority has never ad-
vocated mandatory prayer or the 
9 



**Title: Glamattl turned down offers to appear on major network programs, such as 60 Minutes.**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10 
Glamattl turned down offers 
to appear on major network 
programs, such as 60 
Minutes. 
dogmatic teaching of Judeo-Christian 
faith in the schools, Thomas said. "But 
when we say we're not going to allow 
that, we must also say that we're not 
going to allow the humanist philosophy 
- that you evolved from a primordial 
ooze, and then later descended from 
monkeys- to the exclusion of any 
other viewpoint, [or] that you can take 
God's name in vain but not in worship 
in the schools, [or] that we will invite 
every group including the homosexuals 
into the schools to promote their 
lifestyles, but no other person to say 
that's morally wrong. While we would 
certainly oppose any sectarian imposi-
tion through public law of a particular 
religious faith, including the Christian 
faith, we must say that discrimination 
and intolerance cut both ways." 


Lloenalng bigotry? 
In his address, Giamatti accused the 
Moral Majority of licensing "a new 
meanness of spirit in our land, a 
resurgent bigotry that manifests itself 
in racist and discriminatory postures." 
The President wrote that the Moral 
Majority is "of the same spirit" as the 
Ku Klux Klan, anti-semitic organiza-
tions, and other terrorist groups. The 
problem posed by Giamatti's statement 
here was how to interpret it. When he 
said "licensing bigotry," did he mean 
"condoning" or "accepting" or 
something closer to "encouraging" or 
"assisting?" To complicate matters 
even further, Giamatti provided no 
evidence to support any kind of ·con-
nection between the Moral Majority 
and the KKK. 


Thomas said Giamatti associated the 
Moral Majority with the KKK to at-
tract media attention. "I think he is 
using the phrase 'Moral Majority' to 
cover a broad range of what he regards 
as political sins," said Thomas. "Ob-
viously, he is including under that ban-
ner Nazis and the Klan, which he men-
tioned, and every other perversion he 
can think of. I think this is intellectual-
ly indefensible. He certainly knows the 
difference, being an educated man, 
between the Ku Klux Klan and the 
Moral Majority, a hate group and an 
organization which is trying to pro-
mote principles that are of interest to 
whites, blacks, jews, gentiles and 
every other kind of faith and ethnic 
group in this country. So I have to 
think that his charge was deliberate. 
Now, as for what his motivations were 
for it, you'll have to ask him. But I cer-
tainly think they were political." 


The Moral Majority is officially a 
pro-Israel and pro-Civil Rights 
organization, Thomas pointed out. He 
took pleasure: in showing his growing 
pile of "hate mail" from members of the 
KKK and the American Nazi Party 
accusing the Moral Majority of being 
"damn nigger lovers" and a "jew lover" 
organization. "We get it from both 
sides, you see," said Thomas. 


Giamatti argued that he had never 
accused the Moral Majority of racism 
or anti-Semitism, but believed the 
organjzation uses the same unqualified 
language and unquestioning rationale 
that the KKK and the Nazis use. "I 
never said in the speech that the Moral 
Majority was the Ku Klux Klan . . . If 
people want tQ take hard positions that 
say 'I'm right and you're wrong,' or 'I 
. 
~ ~ 
am t1le only one who has captured the 
truth'- that's entirely their right under 
the Consititution. But people who do 
that give other people who hold c;ven 
crazier views a sense that it is O.K." 


•nd•ngered plur•llam? 
Both Giamatti and Thomas talked at 
grea,t length about the concepts of 
pluratism, but differed on how to 
define and apply it to American socie-
ty. While Giamatti adamantly con-
demned the Moral Majority for 
threatening the ideal of pluralism, 
Thomas credited his organization for 
encouraging it. "'f anything, the Moral 
Majority is only furthering the ideal of 
pluralism by mobilizing previously in-
active people," said Thomas. 


"Pluralism," said Giamatti in his of-
fice, "is simply the sense that the 
strength of the society derives from the 
capacity of people of various back-
grounds and beliefs of all kinds to ex-
press them freely and to have the right 
of that expression protected." In his 
speech he wrote, "Pluralism does not 
abide absolutism, decree and complete 
moral certitude." 


Thomas differed: "Pluralism has: 
been redefined by the political liberals 
to mean there is no truth. That's not 
what 'pluralism' 
means. 'Pluralism 
means allowing the widest possible 


--- Page 11 ---

participation in a debate, political or 
whatever it is. But then, somebody has 
to make a decision. 
"And we're not talking about pro-
fessors standing up in class and saying, 
'You must accept Christ or Buddha or 
Mohammad as your personal savior or 
your religious symbol.' We are talking 
about- and this is where we think the 
major institutions have failed- the 
philosophical truth that there is such a 
thing as truth." 


Giamatti countered, "Cal Thomas 
has every right to his opinion-and his , 
expression of his opinion is all part of a I 
pluralistic society. But I think that 
when you get somebody asserting that 
some people are evil and are doing the 
work of Satan, that that is not en-
couraging open debate. It depends en-
tirely upon how seriously you talk 
about Satan and evil." 


The aeoul•r unlveralt~ 
• Like many evangelicals of the Bible 
Belt, Thomas is suspicious of the ideal 
of liberal inquiry embraced by the 
country's 
universities, 
and largely 
blames educators for the nation's moral 
decline. According to Thomas, the 
universities and colleges have adopted 
the "religion" of secular humanism to 
the exclusion of all other doctrines and 
have purposefully 
promoted 
a 
valueless philos9phy that scorns the 
traditional mores of family sanctity, 
public decency, ethical living and the 
tenets of Judeo-Christian faith. 


"In our opinion," said Thomas, 
"many of the professors in these institu-
tions are filling the minds of students 
with certain 'facts' rooted in secular 
humanism. When you put young peo-
ple in a classroom where they are told 
certain 'truths' day after day by a pro-
fessor, who is their leader for that par-
ticular time, and who expects certain 
responses on the test papers or disser-
tations, they will reform their thinkin.g. 
It is a kind of programming almost." 


Giamatti was puzzled by Thomas' 
embracive term 'secular humanism.' "I 
don't know what it means. When peo-
ple tell me that secular humanism is a 
new and particularly virulent evil- my 
problem with that is not that I don't 
believe there are things that are evil, 
but that it doesn't make any sense as a 
term. 
Christian humanism 
makes 
AP 
Dr. ferry Falwell, president of Moral Majority, Inc. wanted to debate Giamatti at Yale. 
plenty of sense to me as a term because 
it is historically identifiable. It's a 
grand code word that these people use. 
"But this kind of interest in designer 
labels," continued the President, "this 
kind of Sassooning, th.is Gloria Van-
derbuting of our time -I don't hap-
pen to believe in designer labels 
regardless of where the designer comes 
from." 


Labels or no labels, Thomas was 
convinced that the nation's universities 
have drifted from their original values. 
"The fact is, of course, that Yale 
University was founded upon solid 
Judea-Christian principles, as were 
Harvard, Princeton and Dartmouth. 
Today these institutions may teach 
their students how to function well in 
society in terms of how to make a liv-
ing, but that's the 
bottom line. 
However, if it is viewed that men and 
women are in their totality more than 
how much money they make or their 
position in society, that there is a 
spiritual or moral side to them, then it 
seems incumbent upon such institu-
tions to teach students not only how to 
make a living, but also how to live." 


When Thomas condemns the "secular 
humanists" for the corruption of our 
God-fearing republic, 
and when 
Giamatti roars at the "peddlers of coer-
cion" who are out there tinkering with 
the ideals of education, they are only 
exchanging broadsides and accusations 
in the kind of rhetorical war that only 
leads to stalemate. As in too many 
debates, neither side is making much 
of an effort to understand the other 
point of view. Perhaps Giamarti was 
right when he said that the Political 
Union debate with Falwell would "go 
nowhere," just as the classic "monkey 
trial" debate 
between Brady and 
Drummond went nowhere in Jerome 
Lawrence's famous 1955 play, Inherit 
the Wind: 
Brady: I'll tell you whaJ he's trying to do.' 
He wants to destroy everybody's be/Uf in the 
Bible, and in God.' 
Drummond: You know that's not true. 
I'm trying to stop you bigots and ignoramuses 
from controlling the education of the United 
St.aJes.l And you know it.' 
And so the debate will continue. 
• 
W Hampton Sides is a sophomore in Ezra 
Stilts. 


**Title: An Interview with Kingman Brewster**
**Author: Hans-Peter Blamann/The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 12**

12 
An 
Interview 
with 
Kingman 
Brewster 
Fonna Yale Presidrnt and Janna Am-
bassador 
to 
Great 
Britain, 
Brewster holds the distinction of having hero 
attacked by both Spiro Agnew and ]my 
Rubin. Finding Brewsta too libaal, Agnew 
once called on Yale alumni to ask for 
Brewsta's resignation. Finding Brewsta not 
libaal enough, Rubin stood on the green dur-
ing the May Day rallies and yelled, "F--k 
Kingman Brewu. • 
Brewsta was prtsldent from 1963 to 
1977, a period of turbulence and transition. 
Under his administration, Yale not onry 
became co-educational, but also weathaed the 
stonn of the May Day protests portrayed in 
the documentary Bright College Years. 
From 1977 to 1981, Brewsta saved as 
ambassador to Great Britain dun"ng that na-
tion's swing Inwards Thatchaism, and a 
period of mounting social tensions that lata 
lead to riots. Now back in New Haven, 
Brewsta lives a Jew blocks from the Yale 
campus. 
Kingman Brewsta today. 
Hans-Peter BlamannfThe New Journal 
TNJ: I'm interested in what it feels like 
to be back in New H aven. 
Brewster: Oh, well, I can give you a 
different answer now than I would 
have given you a month ago because 
we've just been back to England for the 
first t\me since we left the embassy a nd 
we realize how fond we a re of the 
place. We love it over there, but I say 
that because, of all the places we could 
be, I'd rather be back here in New 
H aven than anywhere else for two 
reasons. One is I'm spoiled . I've spent 
all my time at university campuses, ex-
cept for the war and the embassy, and 
I would miss the diversity of opinion 
and the chance to argue continuously 
with everybody you meet. Secondly, 
when you get as old as we are, it's j ust a 
heck of a lot more relaxing to come 
back where if you stumbled and fell o n 
the pavement people would pick you 
up. If you're in a community where 
you have a lot of friends, a lot of ac-
quaintances, where you're known, it's 
a heck of a lot easier to handle the re-
entry problem. 


TNJ: Do you get over to Yale fre-
quently? 
Brewster: Well, it's more of a semi-
social circu it. I've been trying to stay 
out of Yale affairs, turning down in-
vitations to appear before common 
rooms or the Political Union or what-
not, because I am very eager to make 
my return here as a civilian you might 
say, with no sense of identification 
with or responsib ility for u niversity af-
fairs. I do not wish to be a kind of 
shadow on Bart G iamatti's Yale. On 
the other hand , I lind it impossible n ot 
to return to Yale as we instead of they. 


TNJ: You're sentimental. 
Brewster: It is very much we 


TNJ: Would you teach over there? 
Brewster: Well, I didn't want a faculty 
appointment I did not want a Yale ap-
pointment. 



**Title: An Interview with Kingman Brewster**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
TNJ: Were you offered one? 
Brewster: No, no, heavens no. 

TNJ: Where are your efforts directed 
now? 
Brewster : I'm writing a book. 

TNJ: On what subject? 
Brewster: Well, the book is about how 
to keep American society open, free 
and mobile, and at the same time face 
the challenge of big government, big 
business and the slow down of eco-
nomic activity. It's also about how to 
keep American society volu ntary in 
· ~ 
spirit in the face of large organizations 
and in the face of a slow down of 1964: Brewst" in a photo that rruuJe the cov" of Newsweek. 
photo courteay Newsweek 
economic activity. 

TNJ: Was your book at all inspired by 
your experiences in England? 
Brewster: In part, yes. The ideas 
didn't come so much from being in 
England, but I got a new perspective 
which made me realize how unique 
among nations the United States is. 
Suddenly I became aware of the fact 
that ours is almost unique, with the 
possible exceptions of Canada and 
Australia, in starting afresh with no 
feudal tradition and within an infinite 
amount of space and an infinite 
amount of resources, so the whole 
spirit is one of fresh start, a second 
chance, mobility, whereas in a con-
fined island society with feudal tradi-
tion, people really do expect to die 
where they're born and there's a great 
deal of local loyalty and with it m uch 
less tradition of mobility and spirit of 
change. 

TNJ: So England provided a contraSt? 
Brewster: Yes, a contrast. You realize 
how distinctive our feeling of elbow-
room and mobility is, but also how dif-
ficult it is going to be to maintain that. 

T NJ : Do you sec any parallels betwe~n 
the kind of economic, ractal and soctal 
:iisruption that's taking place in 
England now and the period of unrest 
in the late '60s? 
Brewster: No, I think it's quite dif-
ferent. 

TNJ: How? 
Brewster: Well, I think the period of 
unrest in England is very much a func-
tion of prolonged unemployment going 
way back to the collapse of some of the 
port cities like Liverpool and Glasgow 
and Newcastle. In England you don't 
have anything like a home-grown 
minority which has been oppressed for 
centuries the way we do. The kind of 
struggle for black self-respect and black 
identity had a lot to do with the mood 
of the late '60s. But most of all, the ac-
tivists of the '60s, when America was 
mostly middle-class, were affiuent kids 
who were the last spoiled generation. I 
mean it was before the recession of '71 
and it was at the end of a really 
unusual boom so its economic and 
social circumstances were just the op-
posite from the British. 

TNJ: Twice in your life you've been in 
an official position during a time of 
great social unrest. How do you think 
that's affected you? 
Brewster : Oh, I think it makes you 
aware of the speed of change. When I 
was chosen as president in '63, if 
anyone had said, "well by halfway 
through your term you'll be dealing 
with earthquakes that threaten the ex-
istence of the whole place," I would 
have said, "don't be ridiculous." And 
likewise if when I went to England 
someone had said, "during the course 
of your ambassadorship there will be a 
180 degree turn in the direction of 
British public policy- both domestic 
and international," I would have said, 
"don't be ridiculous." I think the main 
way in which it affects me is to be 
aware of the very limited validity of 
any predictions about fundamental 
social trends and the fact that, at least 
in my time, the changes have been ab-
solutely extraordinary. 

TNJ: You use the word "earthquake." 
Do you think Yale could have been 
pulled apart? 
Brewster: Yes, and many universities 
were; that is, Harvard and Columbia 
in particular were terribly polarized 

T NJ: Did you see yourself as part of 
the glue that kept things together? 
Brewster: Oh sure. Well not just me, 
but I think there were a lot of people


---

14 
I do not wish to be a kind of 
shadow on Bart GiamaHI's 
Yale. 

with different kinds of responsibilities 
not just in Woodbridge Hall, but some 
of the colleges masters and some of the 
alumni. I think my role was made a lot 
easier by the fact that there were really 
no sectors of the university that I didn't 
know intimately by somebody who is 
known intimately by. me. That's very 
important in a situation of trouble, 
when vou have a few malevolent 
charact~rs around- and most of them 
are not- being able to make up your 
mind what the difference is between a 
knave and a fool is crucial, and there's 
no clear way of doing that if you don't 
have that kind of situation where 
there's someone you can turn to who 
really will know the individual about 
whom you're trying to make a judg-
ment. 

TNJ: I recall seeing the film Bnght Col-
lege Years and hearing Jerry Rubin at 
the podium yelling one sort of obsceni-
ty or another. How did you feel per-
sonally about that? 
Brewster: Cy Vance and I went over 
to Ezra Stiles-to hear Abbie Hoffman. 
We thought he'd be the most obscene 
and I guess it was Jerry Rubin who 
was talking about "Kingston Brewer" 
or something like that. It's not that 
they were without convictions, but I 
don't take any of that personally. The 
students, on the whole, were magnifi-
cent. I don't mean that in terms of their 
support of me, but their support of the 
institution. 

And of course Mr. 
Agnew's speech calling for the alumni 
to get rid of me was a great help as far 
as students were concerned. If Agnew's 
against you, you can't be all bad. And 
so that was a happy coincidence. The 
great failure of course is if you make 
some horrible mistake and you feel 
that you were personally responsible 
for things going wrong. 

APRIL, 1970-Students present Brewster with a petition supporting his presidency, after . 
he was criticized by Vice-President Spiro Agnew. 
AP 

TNJ: But you never felt that? 
Brewster: Sure, sure. I was terrified 
that something would go·wrong and it 
would be my fault. And one of the 
reasons that I wanted to be sure that 
we had an expert witness in the cor-
poration in town was so that if things 
did go wrong the corporation wouldn't 
have to rely on me as their only witness 
to sort of explain what happened, and 
so we got Cy Vance. It was a delicate 
relationship all around because in a 
curious way- although the Chief of 
Police in New Haven was very helpful 
and very cooperative and very bold 
-the mayor was terrified and very ..-1 
hostile to Yale. 

TNJ: Who was this? 
Brewster: Bartholomew Guida, who 
was not an evil person, but he was real-
ly terrified of this thing and did not 
want to cooperate with Yale. Sam 
Chauncey and I went down to talk 
with Guida and the Chief of Police and 
it was quite clear that we just were not 
going to get any cooperation at all and 
so we saw the Chief afterwards. He 
said, "now, I've been instructed not to 
cooperate with you, but I'm not gonna 
pay any attention to it." And so we had 
total cooperation with Jim Ahearn and 
that .was absolutely crucial so that he 
would not invoke any confrontational 
activities until we had exhausted the 
possibility of keeping the adversaries 
apart. It could have been a Kent State 
situation if we hadn't had that coopera-
tion . ..Jn addition, we did, before the 
actual, occasion, succeed in getting the 
National Guard to stay out of the 
downtown area and lots of different 
people take credit for that but that's all 
right. 

TNJ: Was that your decision? 
Brewster: Well, yeah, it was the result 
of when Cy came here and advised us 
about preparations. We got in touch 
with the representative of the Depart-



TNJ: You once said that you were 
skeptical of the ability of the Black 
Panthers a nd ... 
Brewster: A black revolutionary. 

TNJ: . . . to receive a fair trial in this 
country. Do you still feel that's true? 
Brewster: I think that situation's im-
proved a lot. Some people claim that 
my statement was never intended to be 
a public statement, because it was 
made at a faculty meeting which was 
closed, and was leaked. 

TNJ: Don't you think it's naive to ex-
pect that it wouldn't be leaked? 
Brewster: 
O h , 
I didn't expect it 
wouldn't be. 

TNJ: Well then you expected it to be 
released in the course of a public state-
Brewster: Well, I made it even though 
I knew it was likely to be public. 

TNJ: H ow did the alumni react to 
your remark? 
Brewster: First telegram I received- I 
wish I knew who sent it-said, "Spiro 
Agnew, what class was he?" T his was 
when Agnew told the Yale alumni they 
should ask for my resignation, as 
though the president was appointed 
by the alumni, but the telegrams we 
received were about 3 to 1 supportive. 
T here were a lot of people who were 
turned ofT by a great many different 
things of which my statement was just 
one. Some people were turned ofT by 
Brtwstn-
poor education. Some people were 
turned ofT by a more aggressive admis-
sions policy that would let people from 
a greater variety of backgrounds in 
schools. Some people were turned off 
by my anti-war stance and some peo-
ple were turned ofT by Coffin. Some 
people were turned ofT by so-caUed 
Black Panther statements, and so -it's 
very hard to measure these things. 

TNJ: You had conflicts with a lot of 
alum ni. 
Brewster: Well, some. 

T NJ: Do you think that was because 
that you had fundamentally different 
values than they, or that you were un-
ble tO communicate your precise pur-
poses to them? 
Brewster: No, I think they disagreed. 
A good u niversity stands halfway be-
tween the generations. The older 
alumni, who have a nostalgic image of 
the university that they think is their 
university, and the younger students, 
who have their own image of what a 
university ought to be, are bound to 
diverge; and it's not surprising that the 
admmtstratlon of an alert university 
sometimes gets stretched between these 
two. As I said at the inauguration of 
my friend Ma.nin Meyerson when he 
became chancellor of the Buffalo cam-
photo courtesy New•WHk 
pus at the University of New York, 
you have to say to the alumni that he 
who would commission the composer 
better not try to call the tune, just the 
way you have to tell the students that 
ours is not a business in which the 
customer is always right. 

TNJ: Alumni might differ with you on 
that. There was a lot of pressure on 
you, R. Inslee Clark, the D1rector of 
Admissions and Henry Chauncey, Jr. 
when you initiated your new admis-
sions standard-when you attempted 
to broaden the base of students and the 
number of alumni- aiTtliated students 
went from 20 per cent of the class to 14 
per cent of the class. 
Brewster: Oh, I ... alumni won't ob-
ject, but that's different from pressure: 
that is ... 

TNJ: The money stopped, didn't it? 
Brewster: No. 

TNJ: It slowed down? 
Brewster: Well, it's hard to tell. That's 
one of the hardest things to tell becauc;e 
some people, who had been turned ofT 
because they thought Yale was getting 
dull and parochial and ingrown, came 
to life and unzipped their pocketbooks 
because of these changes. co-edu-
cation, or a broadened admissions 
15 



**First telegram received said, "Spiro Agnew, what class was he?"**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
First telegram 
received 
said, "Spiro Agnew, what 
class was he?"


**An Interview with Kingman Brewster**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

base, or my speaking out on con trover· 
sial issues. So it's wrong to say that an 
exciting university which alienates 
some alumni is going to lose more than 
it gains. 

TNJ: In terms of a dollar amount, 
that's what happened in that period. 
Brewster: No. 

TNJ: The facts I've seen 
Brewster: You could tell preliminary 
facts about cause and effect; that is, to 
say that the alumni fund kept going up 
anyway. But to say that bequests or 
major gifts declined, that's very hard to 
attribute to particular policies in the 
context of the onset of inflation and 
recession. 

TNJ: In the early '70s the percentage 
went back up again, rather dramatical-
ly, from 14- per cent to 20 per cent. Did 
concern for alumni fund contributions 
play a role in that increase? 
Brewster: No, I don't think it was 
alumni fund contributions. I think it 
was the fact that Worth David, with 
the admissions committee of the facul-
ty and the admissions committee of the 
corporation, was aware of the fact that 
alumni at least deserved to be looked at 
twice. I think that it was in part a con-
sequence of trying to overcome the in-
sensitivity that lnslee had shown by 
seeming to not give a damn at all about 
alumni relationships. We had always 
felt that, other things being equal, the 
alumni sons or daughters should be 
preferred. And I think that's still prob-
ably so. 

TNJ: I'd like to hear more about your 
book. 
Brewster: One of the sources of my in-
terests was an awareness of the impor-
tance of enabhng society to invest in 
the education of its oncoming genera-
tion. It occurred to me that this was 
probably going to outpace available 
MAY. 1977: Aftn- Yale's 276th commencement, Kingman Brewster is sworn in as U.S. AmbasJ
Cyrus Vance. Mrs. Mary Louise Brtwster lwlds the Bible. 

resources, at least outpace state tax 
systems, state universities and private 
contributions. When I was in England, 
I had a chance to give lectures. One 
was on the politics of supporting the 
arts and one was on how to support 
health care. A couple of others dealt 
with my ideas on better and worse 
ways of government support of educa-
tion. And I became aware of the fact 
that conservatives don't pay enough at-
tention to the importance to a free 
society of being sure that people's 
capacity 
is 
not underdeveloped, 
whether in terms of health, education, 
creative ability, minimal standards of 
living, housing and so on. But it's also 
true that liberals, or progressives, can 
underestimate the danger of having a 
citizen rely on favors from the state. 
Therefore the question is how to devise 
techniques which don't abdicate the 
responsibility of the state for develop-
ing the citizen's capacity and don't 
make the citizen a dependent ward of 
the state. I don't think there's a single 
answer, but I think that there are a 
variety of answers in different fields. 

TNJ: In education, what are some of 
these answers? 
option is preferable either to grants nr 
loans. We decided to use it becauc;e we 
thought if we could demonstrate what 
its potential was and what its bugs 
were, perhaps the federal government 
would make it possible for all institu-
tions, at least at the graduate level. 
Tuition postponement would allow the 
student to get an advance for the cost 
of his education and spend that ad-
vance if he undertook an obligation to 
pay it back through the tax system. 
This would mean that the government 
wouldn't have to deal either with the 
student or with the institution. The 
student in effect would be able to invest 
in his own education and only have to 
pay it back in proportion to his income 
for as long a period as was necessary. 
And I still think it's a far better system 
than either a kind of means test ad-
ministered by the government or hav-
ing the government make grants either 
to individuals of institutions, which in 
effect creates an artificial market. This 
is simply illustrative of the search for 
devices which 
take 
advantage of 
market mechanisms but which would 
still permit the government to see to it 
that no one was excluded from the op-
portunity to get the education that he 
had the motivation for and had the 
talent for. 

TNJ: What are you going to do after 
you finish your book? 


Brewster: I enjoy the work I'm doing 
in the law firm. Whether I would ever 
want to take that up full time, it's too 
early to say. 

TNJ: Do you have political ambitions? 
Brewster: No, definitely not. 

TNJ: You've been denying that for 15 
years. 
Brewster: Also never got to it! 

TNJ: Yes, that's true. 
Brewster: With each passing year it 
becomes more convincing. There 
aren't all that many left. But, no, I 
have an increasing interest in public 
affairs, obviously bound to after the 
last four years particularly, but also the 
years that went before. But I think 
politics is a profession and the notion 
that you can come into politics from 
the outside and be effective is quite 
ridiculous. 

TNJ: If not politics, what then? 
Brewster: The practice of law is not a 
bad solution. Or maybe I'll write 
another book. I've got to prove I can 
write one book first. I have not on the 
• whole planned ahead very much. 
Everything I've done has come to me 
as a great surprise and I've been-
knock on wood -lucky enough with 
each one of those opportUnities. 


**Schoolfield: a scholar who dabbles in decadence**
**Author: Holly Lyman**
**Page number(s): 18**

"Impalement as Pastime: Reflections 
on Dracula in Literature." The impec-
cably dressed speaker had a reasonable 
voice, tinged with a German accent, 
and didn't look like an expert on any 
sort or cruelty. His focus was historical 
and lirerary. "A solidly researched 
piece of s<:h9Jarship," recalled graduate 
student Mar]) Kadan who organized 
the lecture. But somehow at times the 
audience couldn't stop laughing. 
Maybe it was -the bloody marys that 
the German Club, which sponsored 
the speech, served. -~aybe it was the 
terrible puns: "I have no stake in this 
lecture" and "Vlad the lmpaler was 
really beyond the pale." But the fun-
niest thing was the contrast between 
the speaker and his subject. "What he 
was saying was grotesque," Senior 
Birgit Baldwin recalled. "But he's such 
a polite, genteel person. If it had been 
someone you'd expected it from, it 
wouldn't have been so funny." 

The speaker was George C . School-
Professor George Schoolfield 
field, a Professor of German and Scan-
danavian Literature who's had an ex-
ceptional career in both languages. He 
received his Ph.D. at Princeton when 
he was 23, writing his dissertation in 
one term, and he was tenured at 29. 
"Everyone in the field in the world 
knows who he is," German Professor 
Jeffrey Sammons said. He's been 
decorated by the Finnish government 
for cultural services to Finland, and 
he's published translations of works 
from four languages. A few students 
think he's crazy, but no one falls asleep 
in his class:' 

German 77b (35069), 
Decadence. 
George C. 
Schoolfield T, Th 
11:30-12:45 
Readings in continental decadent 
literature of the fin tk $ieeu: among 
others, a model esthete and satanist from 
France ... a hair·feti shist from 
Belgium .. . a 
senile satyr from 
Holland ... some algolagniacs from 
Denmark ... an inventive ichthyologist 
..,. 

Ann Chien/The New Journal



**Title: Life of a Scholar**
**Author: Holly Lyman**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
from Sweden ... Austrian elegant and 
necrophiles ... Ability to comprehend 
German required. For advanced studmts. 
That course description, from the 
1975-76 bluebook, 
wa~ Schoolfield's 
parody. Schoolfield does teach one 
course called "Decadence" and another 
("Scandanavian Fin de Sieclej on Nor-
dic decadence. But don't let the name 
fool you. "Students expect perversion 
and degeneration. That's not what 
concerns me at all," Schoolfield said. 
His courses examine decadence as a 
literary movement in 
the 
1890s 
dominated by a sense of coming to the 
end of a century, a civilization, and the 
world. "When I first started reading 
the literature, I thought, 'this isn't 
decadence.' Then I realized it's all 
about decay," said Senior Bibi Ford, a 
student in the Scandanavian deca-
dence course. 

Schoolfield's scholarship, however, 
ranges far beyond the 1890s. "He's a 
one man 
comp-lit department," 
graduate student Andreas Hausler 
said. Sammons described Schoolfield's 
translations as extremely graceful. "I 
think his translating work has been im-
portant. Very few can translate from 
German to English well, and he can." 
Schoolfield has three specialties: 
Neo-Latin and Baroque literature with 
an emphasis on German Baroque, 
Modern literature up to 1920 with a 
focus on the German lyric poet Ranier 
Maria Rilke, 
and Scandanavian 
literature with a focus on Finland's 
Swedish-speaking authors. (He refers 
to their work as "Swedo-Finnish"). 
"Any one of those would be enough for 
us," Sammons said. "He's got an 
unbelievable range." 

"I don't have the seriousness to 
spend my life with a single thing," 
claimed Schoolfield. His recent in-
terest in the 1890s, he said, had many 
sources: a revie~ he wrote on a book 
about that period, his biography on 
Rilke, the cuh of the musician-genius 
in German literature in the 1890s and 
"the particular brilliance of Swedo-
Finnish literature slightly later on." 

._. Finland's Swedish authors, he said, 
were "a cultured minority with a strong 
sense of being swallowed up ... They 
were the owners of a decadent sen-
sibility." He has a general interest in 
dying languages and cultures, which 
often produce decadent literature. But 
he emphasized that the Swedo-Finns 
now have more respect for the Finnish 
majority and their literature i!i thri-
ving. 

Scandanavian studies have probably 
been Schoolfields' most genuine in-
terest. As a child, he put together the 
Viking cutouts on the back of toasties 
boxes. He was 14 when the Winter 
War in Finland occured, and he recalls 
sitting beside the radio with his father, 
listening to broadcasts direct from 
Finland. The Finnish resistance 
"showed that a small country could 
stand up to a totalitarian monster 
. . . It was genuinely heroic," he said. 
"It made a deep impression on me." He 
still regards Finland as a "brave little 
country sitting on the edge of Russia." 
He also likes "the whole idea of a bi-
lingual literature, a bilingual country 
... I wonder if it's coming from a 
mixed background 
myself." His 
mother, although a native English 
speaker, had a German heritage and 
spoke German, as did other family 
members. In his family, "it was ac-
cepted that being German was a good 
thing. My mother remembered World 
War I and the silly anti-German feel-
ings that existed then. But she was 
quite proud." 

As a child, George Schoolfield did a lot 
of reading, but he was not entirely 
serious. He loved Bram Stocker's 
Dracula, which he read when he was ten 
or eleven. "I 
still 
remember the 
book-an orange book with black let-
ters." He also read Frankenstein, but 
liked Dracula better. "I liked the action 
and the scary parts." 

He was always 
studious. 
"My 
;Jarents taught me to be in awe of 
learned people," he said. In high school 
in Charleston, South Carolina, he lik-
ed Latin. "Loved it! From the first 
word!" His school was "the usual-se-
cond rate. The Latin teaching was 
wretched, but I loved the subject and 
learned a lot on my own." 

When he entered the University of 
Cincinnati at age 17, Schoolfield was 
plunged into a dying German culture. 
He lived in boarding houses run by 
German landladies while World War 
II was in full swing, and one of his 
landladies tried to persuade him not to 
register for the draft. "She said, 'you 
don't want to kill your German 
brothers.' She had the whole scheme 
cooked up . . . A 
real lunatic, I'll 
never forget her. She used to hold little 
Nazi meetings in the basement ... I 
thought they were just silly." He did 
register for the draft, anyway, but was 
deferred because of pneumonia. "I 
would have made a terrible soldier." 

Music and the German language 
brought him into contact with a more 
romantic part of Cincinnati culture . 
He played the French horn and took 
courses at the Cincinnati Conser-
vatory. Most of his friend s were Ger-
man musicians. In the summers he 
went to the zoo opera. "The tenors 
would hit the high notes, and the seals 
would start barking," he recalled. He 
ate in restaurants where people spoke 
German until a stranger entered. "It 
was a life not possible today.'' 

He sees some "unscientific parallels" 
between German-American and 
Swedo-Finnish culture, but stresses the 
cultUres' different fates. 

He studied German partly for prac-
tical reasons: it was a recognized field 
that he was good in. During his 
freshman year, he decided on a career 
in 
academia. 
He had considered 
becoming a professional horn player, 
but concluded that he was better at 
scholarship. After four years in Cincin-
nati earning a B.A. in Classics ('46) 
and an M.A. in German ('47), 
Schoolfield 
entered Princeton and 
found it "duck soup. Little Western in-
nocent turns up at the Ivy League. I 
was scared of the intellectual competi-
tion, but that was no problem. That 
was the happiest discovery of my life, I 
suppose." 

When he enrolled in Princeton's 
Department of Modem Languages, 
Schoolfield was already "firm in my 
mind about going into Scandanavian 
matters.'' But, because he wanted to 
make a living, he studied mainly Ger-
man. Practical matters also forced him 
to complete his doctorate in two years.


---

"Students expect perver!Won 
and degeneration. That's not 
what concerns me at all." 
"My father said I had to get ofT the 
payroll and out into the real world." So 
in 1949 he wrote his dissertation, left 
Princeton to teach German at Har-
vard; then married Gloria Della Selva. 
He's glad he completed graduated 
school as quickly as he did. "I must say 
I feel sorry for graduate students. You 
see them here, year after year ... I 
wasn't humiliated the way they are." 

He had some difficulty finding a 
scholarly niche that would include his 
various fields. Nonetheless, his career 
progressed to include positions in 
Scandanavian studies as well as Ger-
man. He taught at Harvard, the 
University of Buffalo, 
Duke, 
University of Cincinnati, and the 
University of Pennsylvania before 
coming to Yale in 1969. His teaching 
was interrupted by several leaves of 
absence to work abroad. 

It was on one such leave that 
Schoolfield suffered a frightening acci-
dent. In 1967, when he was living in 
Finland as 
a 
Fulbright Research 
Fellow, the cap of a soda bottle he was 
opening exploded into his face, im-
mediately blinding his left eye and 
threatening the sight of his right eye. 
After several operations, his left eye 
was cosmetically repaired and the sight 
of his right eye saved. However, he still 
has trouble studying in the evening, 
which he attributes to the strain on one 
eye. His blind eye cannot control the 
light that hits it, so in the bright room 
he usually wears sunglasses. 

Schoolfield cares about his teaching. 
"There's no question that his prepara-
tion takes long hours." Kadar said. His 
intellectual method in class although 
eclectic is 
often 
historical and 
positivistic. "You read one poem writ-
ten in 1650, and he gives twenty hand-
outs to show you sources and themes," 
Hausler said. 

Schoolfield finds his notes from 
previous courses "stultifying to look at. 
You have to come back fresh every 
time." He added, "I put myself to sleep 
working out what I'm going to say," in 
class the next day. He works at home, 
getting up as early as 4:30 when he has 
a publishing deadline to meet. "I'm sil-
ly about preparation," he said. "It has 
to be done carefully all the time ... It's 
like playing an instrument. The better 
you get, the harder you work." 

His undergraduate teaching is a vir-
tuoso performance. "The lecture flies 
... You can never fall asleep in that 
class," Ford 
said. 
Before class, 
Schoolfield tries to make himself ner-
vous and eats a candy bar for energy. 
("I'm a Snickers addict, but Milky 
Ways or Three Musketeers will do.") 

Once an undergraduate class begins, 
he's on the move-hurrying between 
the podium and the side blackboard, or 
rolling his arm in a little circle as he 
describes a point. "He always comes up 
with quips. He keeps your attention," 
Sophomore Tarek Sherif said. 

Although Schoolfield conducts his 
graduate seminars far more calmly, he 
again is often extremely entertaining, 
amusing the class with jokes or historic 
gossip. 

But Schoolfield isn't just an enter- _ 
tainer. 
His 
close 
readings and 
historical analyses depend on a quanti-
ty of knowledge that sometimes in-
timidates his class. He wants students 
to talk, and his manner helps the class 
to relax. "Joking and eccentricity 
make what he knows seem less for-
midable," Junior Lawrence Hobbie 
said. Schoolfield also has a great 
memory for students' intelligent ideas. 
"If someone made a good point, he'd 
bring it up in another class," Hobbie 
recalled. 

Both undergraduate and graduate 
students describe Schoolfield as en-
couraging and kind. "He'd lend you his 
entire library," Hausler said. Sherif ad-
ded, "some professors make you feel 
small, because they're intelligent and 
you're not. He's willing to help you." 

Students who aren't inspired to 
study by Schoolfield's classes and en-
couragement are goaded to do so by 
his exams, which-both he and his old 
students agree- are extremely dif-
ficult. His graduate exams routinely 
last for eight hours. "I suffered from 
being cut off after two or three hours. 
They've got the time," he explained. 
"They complain. But I'm so kind to 
them the rest of the term." Several 
students described him as a syrn-



pathetic grader, and he concurred. 
"I've always believed in stern exams, 
generously graded." 

Schoolfield believes that, after all the 
work he's put into his teaching, 
undergraduates should come to his 
classes more often. He remembers and 
comments in 
class on students' 
absences. "I like Yale undergraduates. 
I'd like them better if they came to class 
more," he said. "They disappear for 
three weeks, you think they're dead. 
Then they come in and act as if 
nr-::1ing's happened ... I regard it as a 
personal insult if a student doesn't 
show up. I take it so much to heart." 

Are Yalies decadent? Schoolfield said 
he couldn't answer this question. "I 
know nothing about the private lives of 
Yale students-thank Heavens!" He 
jokingly 
assures students in his 
decadence courses that they are all 
-. decadent. They can find out whether 
he's right by examining decadent 
character types. 

The typical decadent hero, 
Schoolfied said, comes from an old 
family. He goes through periods of ex-
treme lassisitude,' varying with periods 
of extreme energy. He is very learned; 
he constructs an artificial world for 
himself based on the learning of the 
past. 
He has special 
living cir-
cumstances. 

Does this sound familiar? School-
field said that it reminded him of 
Dracula. The well-known vampire 
comes from an old family, experiences 
states of extreme indolence or activity, 
sleeps in a 
coffm. 
Dracula also 
represents the decadent idea that the 
old are stronger than the young, 
Schoolfield said. Dracula. is a hand-
some old man. In fact, Schoolfield ad-
ded, Stocker's Dracula was extremely 
popular with the Victorians mainly 
because of its strong erotic overtones. 

has also examined 
Dracula's historical ancestor, a Roma-
nian Vlad who committed mass im-
palements and other tortuous murders. 
This Vlad Dracula became unpopular 
in Romania mainly because he con-
verted in prison to Roman Cathol-
ocism. After his death, a legend grew 
up that he had been in league with the 
devil. His name "became a metaphor 
for terribly bad activity," and although 
he had not been a vampire, the 
Dracula legend grew to include vam-
pirism. 

"We've attached a humorous air to 
Dracula ... Audiences have this ftxed 
picture of the guy in the black cloak 
and nubile maidens." He tries to make 
his audiences realize the suffering that 
the original Vlad Dracula caused. He 
added,"' feel uncomfortable giving the 
talk." Schoolfield gave the first of his 
three Dracula lectures to the Ladies 
Aid Society, a discussion group of 
obstetricians and gynecologists. "I kept 
asking myself what would be a nice 
subject," he recalled. He has also given 
the talk at the University of Virginia, 
as well as at Yale. 

"The first time I saw him, he looked 
like a character," Sherif said, recalling 
the first Scandanavian fin-de-sieck class 
he went to. He added, "Some air about 
him made me want to stay." Students 
say that the more they got to know 
Schoolfield, 
the less 
eccentric he 
seemed. "He's very sane, actually," 

"I don't know anyone who's as plea-
sant to talk 
to 
as 
Schoolfield," 
Humanities Bibliographer George H. 
Vroomen said. Schoolfield has been 
known to brighten up a class with a 
personal anecdote, and his students 
quickly become aware of his interests 
in opera and movies. He's accessible, 
friendly, and alert. "He pay's attention 
to you, • Vroomen said. 

But Schoolfield's students and col-
leagues also describe him as a very 
private person. "He's got many more 
interests than he'll talk about," Baldwin 
said. Graduate student Jay Lutz add-
ed, "he's a very striking personality. 
He's friendly, 
but maintains a 
distance." Earlier this month, 
Schoolfield left for a semester's leave of 
absence. When asked what he planned 
to do during that period, he answered, 
"it's a secret project." 

Holly Lyman is a senior in Purson.



**Title: The paradox of working women**
**Author: Geoff Hayward**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
22 
Research ______ __ 
The paradox of · 
working women 
Geoff Hayward 
Dr. Faye Crosby, Assistant Professor 
of Psychology at Yale, is confronting a 
paradox. 

Studies show that today's working 
woman faces persistent and often overt 
sex discrimination. A survey con-
ducted in 1978 by the U.S. Depart-
ment of Labor revealed that white 
females who work year round, full-
time earn just over 59 per cent of the 
salaries of full-time working men. 
Even after adjustments are made for 
differences in education and years ex-
perience, the bottom line remains the 
same: women are pa,id much less than 
men for doing the same work. 

But studies also show that the 
average working woman is content 
with her situation; she will have no 
more complaints than the average 
man. The paradox becomes all the 
more perplexing when one realizes that 
the women who are the worst off are 
generally the most content. Crosby's 
study supports others in showing that 
the 
average telephone operator, 
secretary or bar and grill waitress 
doesn't believe that sex discrimination 
has anything to do with her. The only 
women who are really angry about 
discrimination are 
those 
in high 
prestige occupations- those who, one 
might think, have the least to complain 
about. 

Even more surprising is that 
although almost all women are con-
cerned about sex discrimination in 
general, almost none will admit that 
they themselves have been its victims. 
"It is as though," observed Crosby, 
"every woman considered herself to be 
the exception to the rule of sex 
discrimination." Why do women who 
are fully conscious of sex discrimina-
tion remain so blind to its impact on 
their day to day lives? 

In 
1976, 
Faye Crosby began 
research to investigate this question. In 
a book to be published this summer by 
Oxford University Press, she tells the 
story of her research and presents her 
findings- findings which were often 
just as surprising to her as to anyone 
else. 

Crosby's inquiry was guided by a 
contemporary theory of psychology 
called relative deprivation. The theory 
works from the premise that a person's 
feelings of satisfaction or discontent 
have very little to do with his or her ac-
tual fortunes. Most theorists agree that 
to feel truly unhappy with one's present 
situation one must both want 
something better and feel that one 
deserves something better. The theorists 
claim that we gauge what we want and 
what we feel we deserve by comparing 
ourselves to people in our social group. 
As we change social groups we gain 
new expectations. "Often," explains 
Crosby, "this means that actual gains 
are accompanied by psychological 
losses." 

Crosby devised a scheme which 
would test relative deprivation theory. 
She selected 400 white men and 
women between the ages of 25 and 40; 
all were living in Newton, a suburb of 
Boston. Newton is unusual as a suburb 
because of its affiuence and was chosen 
largely because it offers such a high 
density of professionals. 

The questions asked in the inter- ~ 
views focused on the grievances of the 
workers. How often, for example, had 
they felt some sense of grievance con-
cerning their pay, working hours, or 
job responsibilities? Workers were 
asked to compare themselves to their 
co-workers. "In view of your training 
and abilities," one question read, "is 
your present job as good as it ought to 
be?" 

Plndlnga 
The answers revealed some unex-
pected reversals in public opinion. A 
study conducted in 1967, just a decade 
before Crosby's study, showed three 
per cent of the people questioned felt 
that sex discrimination was a problem 
in America. In Crosby's study, 97 per 
cent of the men and women inter-
viewed felt that sex discrimination was 
a problem. The message from New-
tonites was clear: women deserve the 
same pay for the same work. Yet this 
was not the case. 

Crosby compared a group of men 
who had prestigious jobs to a group of 
women having jobs of high prestige 
(the "prestige" of an occupation is • 
established using NORC, an accepted 
standard based on public opinion). 


---

23

Although the women were on average 
slightly better educated and had on 
average slightly more prestigious oc-
cupations than the men, the men were 
being paid roughly $10,000 more per 
annum than the women. Objectively, 
this sounds like a clear case of sex 
discrimination, yet the women involv-
ed had few complaints. 

"The working women in our study," 
observed Crosby, "are aware of and 
upset about 
the extent of sex 
discrimination which faces most 
women on the job. Yet they appear 
quite naive about the extent of sex 
discrimination they themselves must 
overcome." Of the 163 women Crosby 
Psychology professor Faye Crosby 
surveyed, only five expressed strong 
personal grievances about sex dis-
crimination. 

The most obvious reason for this ap-
parent lack of concern is offered by 
relative deprivation theory: women see 
little gap betwen their actual and 
desired job rewards. In fact, among 
those with high prestige occupations, 
only seven per cent mentioned money 
as a gratifying aspect of their jobs. On 
the other hand, 50 per cent listed ac-
complishment, and 42 per cent listed 
interpersonal relations as the most im-
portant aspects of their jobs. Crosby 
suggests that many women may accept 
lower paying jobs in exchange for a 
Rollin Rlggii/The N- Journal 
"Since the second world war 
there has been a gradual 
thaw In traditional gender 
roles. Now the ice Is coming 
crashing down." 
greater sense of accomplishment. 

The findings roughly confirm this 
relative deprivation theory. Most 
women did not want any more from 
their jobs than they were already get-
ting, and most women did not feel that 
they, as individuals, deserved any bet-
ter. 

However, 
relative deprivation 
theory fails to uncover the source of 
this apathy. Crosby suspected deeper 
factors were at work. 

Solving the puzzle 
In a follow-up study, she took a group 
of the most aggrieved women and com-
pared them to a group of the least ag-
grieved. "What," she asked, "prevents 
a woman from recognizing herself as a 
victim of an injustice she knows to ex-
ist?" Her study suggests there are 
psychological barriers: "The step from 
knowledge of the group situation to an 
understanding of one's own situation, 
which is a small step logically can 
become a 
chasm 
psychologically." 

Crosby made three important observa-
tions which help explain the nature of 
these psychological barriers. 

Our feelings of justice, like our feel-
ings of need, are determined by com-
paring ourselves to others, Crosby 
said. So while women compare them-
selves as a group to other groups in 
American society and conclude they 
are victims of discrimination, an in-
dividual woman will normally com-
pare herself to other members of her 
own group (i.e. other women). She 
concludes that she is treated no dif-
ferently than anyone else, and the true 
nature of the discrimination eludes 
her. In fact, among the women most 
content with their jobs, all but 21 per 
cent compared themselves with other 
women. Among the most discon-
tented, 
60 per cent compared 
themselves first of all to men. 

Crosby also noted that "individual 
suffering, unlike group suffering, ap-
pears to call for individual villains." 
When a person realizes he is suffering, 
sub-consciously he looks for someone 
to blame, someone who has intention-
ally done him harm. "Logic," Crosby 
observed, "permits us to recognize 
cases in which one individual suffers 
through the fault of no person or per-



24

"What ," 
Crosby asked, 
"prevents a woman from 
recognizing herself as the 
victim of an injustice she 
knows to exist?" 
sons-not even himself; but psycho-
logic yearns for primitive symmetry." 

By recognizing that she has been un-
fairly treated, a woman runs the risk of 
perceiving her colleagues as enemies. 
Rather than admit that she has been 
stabbed by one or more of her peers, a 
woman will often deny that she is 
bleec;Jing. 

This fear of conflict has another 
aspect which gives rise to Crosby's 
third o~servation. By defining herself 
as a victim, a women invites denigra-
tion. Social groups in general have lit· 
tle sympathy for ·the underdog; we 
would rather blame the individual for 
his suffering than blame ourselves or 
our group. 

"The typical working 
woman," Crosby pointed out, "may see 
herself as the lucky exception to the 
discriminatory rule because at some 
level she realizes that to do otherwise 
simply courts further problems." 

Blologlc•l e xpl• n• tlon? 
Does the fact that women are willing to 
work for less than men suggest some 
inherent psychological difference be-
tween the sexes? Crosby does not en-
tirely rule out the possibility of a 
biological explanation, but she points 
out that the difference between the at-
titudes of low prestige and high 
prestige women is far too great for 
biology to be the most influential fac-
tor; if it were, all women would have 
similar attitudes. A more likely ex-
planation, she says, is that work at-
titudes are largely determined by social 
pressures. 

The paradox of contentedness ap-
plies not only to women but to other 
social groups as well. One of the first 
uses of the relative deprivation theory 
was to explain why, before the equal 
rights movement, black males refused 
to see themselves as victims of racial 
discrimination. The "Uncle Tom" and 
the faithful servant would not believe 
that whites wished them harm. 

Unaeen revolution 
What do these findings bode for the 
future? Will women suddenly wake up 
to the inequities they suffer and 
vocalize their grievances? Crosby 
thinks not. However, her work reveals 
some reversals in public opinion which 
underscore how rapidly the woman's 
role in the work place is changing. The 
tremendous increase in single parent 
homes has been eating away at tradi-
tional gender distinctions. Women 
have been forced into the working 
world and men must spend more time 
attending to household duties. Crosby 
believes that as more and more women 
become th e bread winners, they will 
become more conscious of their status 
relative to men. 

All this change has come so quickly 
that very little research has been done 
to interpret its effects. Crosby's work is 
·pioneer research into an as yet unseen 
revolution. She chooses a suitablt 
domestic metaphor to describe the 
significance of this revolution. "It is 
like defrosting a refrigerator," she said, 
"for a long time it seems that nothing is 
happening. But after enough of its 
sides have been exposed, a whole 
chunk of ice suddenly tumbles down. _ 
Since the Second World War there has 
been a gradual thaw in traditional 
gender roles, now the ice is coming 

P'uture re•••roh 
Next summer Dr. Crosby will publish 
the conclusions she has drawn from the 
Newton study. In her next project she 
would like to examine how divorced 
women and single mothers feel about 
their jobs. Are they just as placid about 
their working conditions as were the 
women of the Newton Study? Or have 
they gained through their indepen-
dence a new self-awareness? 

• 
Geoff Hayward is a junior in Davenport. 



**Title: Sports ____ __ The team that Taylor built**
**Author: Mark Mcintyre**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
It is several weeks before the collegiate hockey season is to begin, and Yale's head hockey coach Tim Taylor sits in the empty bleachers of Ingalls Rink talking with a visitor. Taylor maintains a strict rule against being late for practice and now, though he is trying to be polite and entertain his guest, he checks his watch frequently. 
"Have you seen Hoc/cey Magazine's preseason predictions?" the visitor asks. 
"No, I don't think I have," Taylor responds. 
"They don't say much about us." 
"Good." 
"That's the way you like it huh?" 
Varsiry hoclcey coach Tim Taylor 
"Yeah, we'll just have to sneak up on them," Taylor says, staring straight ahead. 


A born-again Yale hockey program has been sneaking up on "them" for quite awhile now-since 1976 to be exact. That was the year Timothy B. Taylor, a Harvard man, left Cambridge to begin a reclamation project that makes other efforts to rebuild teams look like an afternoon with Tinker Toys. The real task set before Taylor nearly six years ago is completed. No longer does the Yale hockey team begin a season with nothing more to look forward to than the possibility of securing victories against the few inferior teams on its schedule, and the slim hope of stealing a win or two from superior foes. No longer do Yale hockey players take recruits aside and encourage them to go elsewhere. No, those days are gone. 


It does not matter, really, that Taylor-coached teams have lost more games than they've won, or that they've never emerged victorious from an ECAC playoff contest (they've only been in one). What is important is that Taylor has given respectability to a program that had wallowed in mediocrity for more than a decade. In 1976, Taylor inherited a team that had won just five of its previous 48 outings, and in the 11 years prior to his arrival had averaged nearly 17 losses a season. This season, for the first time since the Ivy League was formally organized in 1955, Yale is defending an Ivy title in hockey. 
"You know, where I'm from it's unheard of for Yale to be defending Ivy champs," said assistant coach Mike Gilligan, a Boston native who came to Yale this season after leading Salem State to six straight ECAC Division II playoff berths. "Yale is beginning to attract some of the premier players it needs to remain a perennial contender. As some of the younger players develop they'll give us the depth we need to emerge as one of the better teams in the East, and maybe in the country." 


About Yale hockey's extraordinary progress under his guidance, Taylor will only say that each season the team re-evaluates its goals and that his personal aim is to make the Elis "as competitive as possible." Taylor exudes confidence, but he does it quietly with a calm, firm resolve. That same purposefulness was in his voice when he came to Yale as a tall and slender, boyish looking man of 34. He greeted the local press and Yale alumni with determined statements: "I intend to turn things around right away in terms of attitude and desire to win" ... "I plan to devote every moment to the Yale hockey program" ... "I'm going to teach a system" ... "I wouldn't have come here if I didn't think I could do the job ... " 
I wouldn't have come here if I didn't think I could do the job. As a senior at Harvard he captained a Crimson team that rolled to a 21-3-2 record on its way to the ECAC championship. In six seasons as Harvard's freshman coach, Taylor's teams compiled a 79-28-1 mark. Why, then did he leave? 
"I did a lot of soul-searching," Taylor said. "I had to resolve in my own mind that I wanted to be a head coach. I figured Yale would be a good place to launch a career." 
"I realized there were two things I had to do to turn this program around," he said recently. "First, we (Taylor and then-assistant coach Ben Smith) had to instill a feeling of winning. We had to get the players thinking positively. We were able to do that, I think, even in our first season when we were still losing most of our games. The players weren't down at Rudy's getting stiff and talking about what a jerk I was. They weren't making excuses about why they were losing. They were beginning to take pride in their program. 
"Second, we had to recruit. We simply had to get more Division I players on our roster. We've spent countless hours recruiting." 


I plan to devote every moment to the Yale hockey program. The son of a wealthy newspaper publisher, Taylor could have devoted himself to learning Daddy's business. He even looks more like an executive than a rink rat; that is, until you notice the faded crescent scar slicing across his chin. 
But dedicate himself Taylor has done. He is intense, by his own admission, sometimes too intense. Never one to picture himself as a nine-to-five businessman type, Taylor begins each day during the season shortly after 8:00a.m. and usually ends it about 14 hours later by watching game films either in his cramped office at Ingalls Rink, or at home where he has a video-tape player attached to his television. 
As a consequence, Taylor's wife, Amy, watches a lot of hockey too. "There isn't any other channel to turn to," she said. 


Perhaps as a result of his self-imposed frenetic schedule, Taylor is no longer boyish looking. A generous curl of hair still tumbles across his forehead, but most of it is grey now. Taylor, it seems, has matured as perceptibly as his hockey program. 
I'm going to teach a system. Taylor coaches a style of hockey that rejects the traditional National Hockey League mentality of dumping the puck into the corners and chasing it. Instead, Taylor emphasizes aggressive forechecking, puck control, and motion. It's great hockey when executed properly, but it's a difficult style to perfect, especially for college teams whose personnel changes radically from year to year. As a result, and this is perhaps the most frequently heard criticism of Taylor's teams, the Elis lack consistency. One night they'll simply dazzle an opponent, the next night they'll look like stumble-bums. 


Taylor's "system" is unique and relatively complex, at least at the collegiate level. He is able to teach it because he is, in the words of one Yale player, "a consummate student of the game of hockey." In the spring of 1981, Taylor served as an assistant coach for Team USA in the World Hockey Championships; last fall he was selected to a six-man observation team of the International Ice Hockey Federation at the Canada Cup Series. 
It is no coincidence that Taylor's coaching tenets have been influenced by the European brand of hockey. 
"To a certain extent, I think our style of play reflects what Tim has learned from watching and studying the Europeans," said sophomore forward Dave Williams. "We tend to set up our offense from behind the net more than our opponents. We also use what you might call "situational plays" and we adjust them depending on the rink we're playing in or the team we're facing." 


I don't intend to end up at the bottom of the Ivy League. Yale won its first game under Taylor, a good omen but not a particularly meaningful one. Taylor's Elis went on to garner six more victories that first season, three of them against a hapless Pennsylvania team. Little more than a year later Penn officials axed the hockey program, reasoning perhaps, that if the Quakers couldn't beat Yale they didn't belong. 
"That first season was hell at times," said Smith, who is now an assistant coach at Boston University. "I can remember being in tears after one game up at Dartmouth. We got clobbered that night and I just sat in the locker room wondering when we were ever going to be able to beat those guys." 


Under Taylor, the Yale players may have begun to feel like winners, but they still weren't winning. Neither Taylor's sophisticated coaching philosophy nor his unflagging dedication prevented the Elis from enduring yet another dismal, frustrating season. Instead, that first season simply proved a popular coaching adage, namely, that "you can't make chicken salad out of chicken shit." 


We had to recruit. Recruiting is a naughty concept within some Ivy League circles. In his speech to an alumni convocation in April of 1980, Yale President A. Bartlett Giamatti recommended that the league "discuss restricting recruiting by coaches to on-campus conversations and visits . . . I believe it is demeaning to the profession of coaching when one has to spend so much time traveling and wooing off campus." 
Taylor has spoken out sharply against Giamatti's speech. "Recruiting is absolutely necessary," he said. "Many athletes from lower and middle income families look at Yale as an elitist institution. Usually they don't even associate athletics with Yale. We have to show these kids what Yale has to offer both educationally and athletically. The top athletes wouldn't be here unless they were recruited." 


Ironically, it was the Yale administration, by allowing Taylor to hire Smith as a full-time assistant, that provided Taylor the freedom to recruit ambitiously. He now has two full-time assistants, but Yale didn't even have a full-time haul coach from 1965 to 1972. 
Giamatti may want excellence in athletics, as he frequently professes, but Yale would have never achieved it-at least in hockey-without successful recruiting. 


Taylor, who admits that it's relatively easy to sell Yale to a prospective student once you get him on campus, delegates most of the on-the-road recruiting to his assistants. These trips result in frequent long-distance telephone conversations between coaches to evaluate which players might be interested in Yale and, more importantly, which players the admissions office might be willing to accept. 
In December, assistant Bob Richardson made a scouting trip to Minnesota. As he filed out several reports, Taylor perused a long, detailed grocery list of high school talent. Taylor and Richardson briefly discussed each player: "I think we can kiss him good-bye ... Well, Eddie Kilroy says he's good ... Can he play ... Logan? ... Vino? ... You know, Richard Vino. Can he play? ... I called Logan the other night ... I think you've got to get in to the household of that kid ... Well, I heard that guy had a visit at Cornell and he said that he didn't want to go to a school where he had to study hard. He said he just wanted to concentrate on hockey. I don't think he's our style ... That kid seems pretty naive ... I know he did well on his SAT's ... does he have the speed? ... I know he's not pretty looking yet but he'll come along ... " 


Last season's graduating class was Taylor's first crop of recruits. In four years they compiled two winning records (13-12-1 in 1978-79 and 14-12-1 last season), upset an unbeaten Boston University squad that went on to win the national championship, lost to Harvard just once in eight meetings, and earned an ECAC playoff berth, Yale's first since 1967. 


It was the loss of 10 seniors from that class which lulled most people into believing that this would be another rebuilding year for Taylor. Instead of rebuilding, however, Taylor reloaded. 
"That we lost 10 seniors was kind of a misleading statistic but I didn't tell any people otherwise before the season began," Taylor said. "Two of those seniors were not regular starters, two others missed most of the season with injuries, and another had kind of an off year. We figured we would be able to replace them." 
"Our concern," said Gilligan, "was whether we'd be able to handle the added pressure of being defending Ivy champs. We knew everybody would be gunning for us." 


The Elis have responded with a capable arsenal. Captain Dan Poliziani and junior Bob Brooke, considered two of the best players in college hockey, and senior Joe Gagliardi, Yale's top goal scorer a year ago, provide an offensive attack perhaps unparalleled in Yale history. 
Meanwhile, freshman Peter Sawkins, a seventh-round draft pick of the Los Angeles Kings in June and the latest of Taylor's prized recruits, had combined with sophomore goalies Paul Tortorella and juniors Bill Nichols and Dave Tewksbury to bolster a once porous defense. 
Tortorella allowed just 10 goals in Yale's first four ECAC games, and he played spectacularly in the Elis' first loss of the season, a 1-0 heartbreaker against a perennially tough Boston University team. That loss, probably more than any of their wins, demonstrated how far the Yale hockey program has come in five years-and how far it still has to go. 
"I don't think we've seen a team that we can't beat," Taylor said, after the B.U. game. "But then again, no one is afraid of us either. Realistically, we're not a Division I powerhouse yet. We're a good team. Sometimes, a pretty darn good team." 

Marie Mcintyre, a senior in Jonathan Edwards, is a former sports editor of the Yale Daily News. He has written sports articles for the Boston Globe, New Haven Register, and Stamford Advocate. 



**Title: Theatre: Two theaters, two strategies**
**Author: Antonio Mercado**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•. . . it was not our purpose to entertain the 
city of New Haven. We were functioning in 
a university and therefore wanted the same 
privileges as a laboratory scientist or a literary 
researcher. 

It was our responsibility, I 
thought, to explore, to experiment, to develop 
new techniques, 
to rediscover neglected 
works- in short, to perform the theatrical 
equivalent of basic research. 

Besides, New Haven already had its own 
community theatre- the Long Wharf 
- Robert Brustein, Making Scenes. 

The Long Wharf and the Yale Reper-
tory theatres have played leading roles 
in the regional theatres' movement 
since its very beginning. But how have 
these two major repertory companies 
co-existed, for more than 15 years, in 
New Haven- a 
city of less than 
150,000? 

Possibly because they have used two 
different strategies to assert their 
reputations and attract the audiences. 

The Yale Rep, having Robert Brustein 
as its founder and artistic director for 
13 years, received local and national 
attention for the polemic and often 
disturbing nature of its productions; 
the Long Wharf, directed by Arvin 
Brown since 1966, conquered a large 
constituency from New Haven and its 
surrounding areas through the com-
bination of an eclectic repertory and a 
highly professional standard of produc-
tion. 

The idea of a resident theatre com-
pany had a different meaning for each 
artistic director. Brown emphasized its 
character as a regional theatre; he tried 
to bring to New Haven the excellence 
of Broadway productions, and thus 
created a quality "consumer theatre" 
-a Circle-in-the-Square outside New 
York. For Brustein, the adventurous 
ideal of a resident company was the 
very opposite of a consumer theatre, 
and essentially anti-Broadway in its 
cultural concerns and aesthetic values. 

According to him, the Rep was a 
"seminal theatre," a company aimed at 
innovative concepts and techniques 
which could be considered controver-
sial, but which represented a signifi-
cant contribution to the development 
of the theatre art. 

Until recently, the two theatres were 
the dramatic correlative of the town-
gown duality, and it was not difficult to 
guess a theatregoer's tastes and views 
according to his or her subscription. 

Instead of the established playwrights 
cherished by the Long Wharf (Arthur 
Miller, Tennessee Williams, 
Noel 
Coward, Neil Simon), the Rep gave its 
audiences European avant-garde (Alfred Jarry's 
Ubu, Brecht's Baal), young American 
dramatists (Sam Shephard, Bob Aulet-
ta, Chris Durang), and unusual sta-
gings, such as the production of 
Aristophanes' The Frogs in the swim-
ming pool of Payne-Whitney gym. 

Brustein admitted recently in his 
book Making Scenes that he respected 
the Long Wharf "for its craft and com-
petence," but added, "I didn't find it a 
very adventurous theatre. The basic 
style of the Long Wharf was domestic 
realism- plays in which people discuss 
their problems over hot meals- and 
this made it a congenial resting place 
for 
the middle-class 
New Haven 
population, lulled by the sight of 
familiar lives on stage." 

Actually, there were mistakes and 
shortcomings on both sides. The Long 
Wharf succeeded in complying to the 
tastes of a huge constituency of about 
15,000 subscribers, but lacked clear ar-
tistic guidelines to define the company 
and its aims; for some time, it faced a 
sort of "identity crisis." The Rep, on 
the contrary, never reached the mark 
of6,000 subscribers and often operated 
with half of its seats empty; but it 
boasted the monopoly of dramatic 
truth and went through a peculiar love-
it-or-leave-it phase. 

Today the situation seems quite dif-
ferent: 
time and experience have 
bridged the gap between the Long 
Wharf and the Yale Rep, so that the 
town-and-gown dichotomy is no longer 
a dramatic conflict-onstage, at least. 

The Rep, under Lloyd Richards' ar-
tistic directorship, has balanced its 
repertory and become less controver-
sial in its production concepts, so that 
the campus' limits are no longer the 
University theatre's boundaries. As 
Richards said in a recent interview, to-
day's Rep is "a repository keeping alive 
the old, as well as giving birth to the 
new and innovative." One attempt at 
innovation is the Winterfest, now play-
ing at the Rep. This festival gives four 
young American playwrights an op-
portunity to see their new works on 
stage, even if they are still works-in-
progress. 

The Long Wharf, in turn, has 
grown increasingly selective and dar-
ing in its choice of plays, partly


--- Page 29 ---

because the audience itself, with the 
passing of the seasons, became more 
demanding. The theater now takes 
more risks with new playwrights and 
controversial works:  Stuarts, American 
Buffalo, Sizwe Banzi is Dead, The Blood 
Knot, and  Lakeboat are some recent ex-
amples. Like the Rep's Winterfest, the 
Long Wharf's Stage II, which opened 
two years ago, provides an opportunity 
to perform new works that could be too 
commercially risky for the main stage. 

Though the two companies are 
closer than they have been in the past, 
they still retain the distinctive features 
which have shaped their reputations. 

The Rep is still a theatre of ideas, while 
the Long Wharf puts a priority on 
entertainment over cultural concerns. 
-------------------------------
Works by Bernard Shaw, for instance, 
figure in both theatres' repertories 
-but in very different ways. 

The Rep staged this fall one of 
Shaw's most polemic texts, Mrs. War-
ren's Profession, 
which was banned in 
New Haven in the beginning of the 
century because of its "'immoral" sub-
ject-how decent people make a good 
living out of prostitution. Shaw writes 
in his preface to the play: 
. rich nun 
without conviction are more dangerous in 
modern society than poor women without 
chastity. Hardly a pleasant subject this! I 
must, however, warn my readers that my at-
tacks are directed against themselves, not 
against my stage figures. 

The Long Wharf's Shaw, scheduled 
to run from May 20 to June 27, is


--- Page 30 ---

Until recently the two 
theaters were the dramatic 
correlative of the town-gown 
duality. 

much more genteel and pleasant. The 
Doctor's Dilemma is a stimulating and 
skillful comedy, in which a doctor who 
happens to have just one place at the 
hospital must choose which of two pa-
tients will be admitted for cure- and 
the choice is to be made between a 
great artist and a mediocre doctor, that 
is, a healer of souls and a healer of 
bodies. A vital theme, indeed; brilliant 
as well as harmless, this intellectual ex-
ercise on applied ethics has nothing of 
the aggressiveness of Mrs. 
Warren. 

Characteristically, the Long Wharf 
combines the wish to play Shaw with 
the wisdom to play safe. 

The Rep's attempt to present uni-
versal subjects and social concerns 
achieved a coherent balance of feeling, 
thought and myth this season: a basic 
theme- the meaning, 
nature and 
value of the human life and work-
pervaded 
its 
three 
first 
plays. 

Chekhov's Uncle Vanya questioned the 
meaning of an unfulfilled life, wasted 
out in irrelevant and obscure work; 
Shaw's Mrs. 
Warren's Profession dis-
cussed the morals and the very nature 
of work and profit in modern society; 
Richard Nelson's Rip Van Winkle, an 
American "epic," dealt with the transi-
tion of an agricultural society to the 
world of factory and industry, and 
therefore from self-independence to in-
terdependence. The individual's prob-
lems are thus placed against a more 
general backdrop: the social context, 
philosophical concerns and historical 
change. 

The Long Wharf, on the contrary, 
focuses on the individual, brings his 
personal drama and psychological 
problems to the proscenium, and dims 
out the lights on the social, ideological 
or historical settings. In the 1981 
season, John Hopkins' This Story of 
Yours dramatized the mental and emo-
tional disintegration of a cop accused 
of killing a supposed pervert; the 
beautiful revival of Peter Nichols' A 
Day in the Death of Joe Egg showed a cou-
ple who desperately tried to overcome 
the heartbreak of raising their spastic 
child; and Arthur Miller's A View from 
the Bridge, 
an American "classic," 
followed a dockworker's tragic path 
from unconscious passion to self-
destruction. 

In upcoming plays, the same dif-
ferences are evident. With Lakeboat, 
the Long Wharf brings the introspec-
tion of young author David Mamet, 
while the Rep welcomes back the 
humanistically committed South-
African playwright Athol Fugard with 
his new play Master Harold . . . and the 
Boys. In comedy, the contrast is still 
more striking: Noel Coward's Waiting 
in the Wings at the Long Wharf, and 
Shakespeare's Love's Labour's Lost at the 
Rep. 

These distinctions appear not only 
in the choice of the repertory; they are 
evident also in the work of the 
dramaturgs or literary managers of 
both companies, as expressed in their 
program notes. The Long Wharf's pro-
gram provides merely the basic infor-
mation for an event considered as self-
sufficient and complete in itself; the 
Rep's more substantial program notes, 
suggest that such experience should go 
deeper and further, even beyond the 
theatre walls and the actual time of the 
performance. Ultimately, the Long 
Wharf informs the audience so that it 
may fully enjoy the show; the Rep, 
more demanding, provides the means 
for the audience to become more 
critical and active. This is not a simple 
matter of style or of taste: though 
things have changed over time, two 
different conceptions of the theatrical 
experience are still at play. 

Antonio Mercado (M.F.A. 78) is a theatre 
director and critic in Brazil and a Doctoral 
candidate at the School of Drama. 



**Title: Rhyming for a reason**
**Author: Lelia Wardwell**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
Books-----
Rhyming 
for a reason 
Lelia Wardwell 
Rhyme's Reason 
by J obn Hollander 
1981 Yale University Press 54 pp. 
There are rhythms like this that you'll 
frequently meet, 
They resound with the 
pounding of regular feet, 
And their anapests carry 
a narrative load 
(The hoofbeats of horses, of 
course, on the road). 
What does an English professor do 
when he is asked to explain a specific 
verse form in a poetry class? If, like 
John Hollander, the English professor 
is also a poet, he may simply write his 
own example on the blackboard, in-
stead of providing a formal definition 
or quoting an example from another 
poet's work. Hollander often writes his 
own demonstrative 
verse 
for 
his 
classes, he said, out of "a funny kind of 
laziness," which comes from writing 
verse since he was 14. 

Hollander's examples are verse 
fragments, written in the poetical form 
of rhyme, structure or rhythm which 
they explain. He recently published 
some of them in Literature as Experience, 
an anthology he worked on with Irving 
Howe and David Bromwich. Now he 
has reprinted his work, along with a 
brief text of definitions and explana-
tions, in his own book, Rhyme's Reason. 
Rhyme's Reason is not a theoretical ex-
amination of poetry. It is a short, in-
formative book which explains and il-
lustrates formal elements in English 
verse. 

Hollander describes char-
acteristics that have existed in poetry 
from ancient Greek verse up to 
modem forms such as free verse, 
popular song and even the Blues. His 
text is simple and clear, and his verse 
graceful. His blues example is especial-
ly witty: 
Now a blues has stanzas, stanzas of a 
funny lcind-
Yes a blues has stanzas 
of a eery funny lcind; 
(Do that line again, singer, whik you 
11l.tJke up your mind) . . . 

He also gives an example of a one line 
poem: "The Universe. • 

Hollander does not consider Rhyme's 
Reason a major achievement. He called 
it his "fun little book," a project which 
took little time and effort on his part. 
He decided to write it because he 
realized that most students (including 
English Majors and many of their 
teachers) are not familiar with the for-
mal elements of verse he has worked 
with all his life. He wrote in his in-
troduction, "The most popular verse 
form in America today ... is 
a lcind of free verse 
without any special 
constraints on it except 
those imposed by 
the notion - also 
generally accepted-that 
the stnp the lines 
11l.tJke as they run 
down the page (the 
familiar strip with the 
jagged nght-hand edge) not 
be too wide. 

Poetry, he said, is too often iden-
tified by its "hemline" rather than by its 
sound. 

Lelia Wardwell is a freshman in Calltoun



--- Page 32 ---

Now Available At the Co-op 
OUT-OF-PRINT SEARCH SERVICE 
Have you looked for an old favorite or a needed book 
for reference and discovered that it is no longer available? 
The Yale Co-op will now search for any out-of-print title. 
Simply fill out a form in the Book Department. Our staff can 
assist you. No general requests please, we will search 
only for specific titles. 
Most searches take from 4-12 weeks. However, if not 
available at first, your request can be kept on file for up to 
five years. If a copy is located, the price ·will first be quoted 
to you. Prices are determined by availability and condition; 
OP books often command a premium price. 
There is no obligation to buy when a price is quoted, but 
should you accept the quote, full payment is required at 
that time. It may then take several weeks for the book to 
arrive. All books offered are sold on a first-come, first-
served basis, so it is best to respond as soon as possible. 
All SAlfS ARf FINAl 
NO RETURNS AllOWED 
For in-print books not in our 40,000 title stock, 
ask about our "7 Day Search" (no fees) or Special 
Orders (postage charge added). 

