Publication date: 03/84
Volume 16, Issue 5

**John Kerry and the Vietnam War**
**Author: Tina Kelky**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Popular Resistance Forms then' was very little detail to fight ... It seriously hurt American morale.
"Once you got over there, you'd see with your own eyes how it worked out. There were lots of people who asked what the hell we were doing there. [Our unit] responded by becoming outspoken in opposition to what we were doing. We debated with ourselves and our superior officers. Some of our superiors agreed and sent messages back to Saigon, others didn't.
"When I was skipper of a swift boat on the rivers over there," Kerry recalls, "I got into serious arguments about our shooting at targets. We did not see, at the free-fire zones, at sampans. You might fire at an old grandmother or grandfather and you did not know if they were VietCong. What was the morality of that? Or we'd be ordered to destroy little villages and saw no object in it. We'd just be denying our own capability to win over the people later. I think our unit bent over backwards to see that people were removed whenever possible. We'd take them to hospitals, we even delivered babies.
"The absurdity of the missions, the corruption of the government we were trying to uphold, the inability to fight the kind of war we were trying to fight, all made it clear to me that we were on a mission that was wrong and wasteful."
Upon his return to the United States in 1969 he decided to speak out for an end to the war. "I think I began to have a better understanding of the duplicity of the governing process I hadn't had before," says Kerry, who was a political science major in Jonathan Edwards. "I began to understand the limits of foreign policy in real terms, not just those learned in the framework of a classroom. I saw a lot of questions to be answered—why did minorities bear the brunt of the fighting in Vietnam, why were there fewer of us from Yale over there? I gained a deep conviction of how you should and shouldn't approach another country."
During the 1971 march on Washington Kerry helped publicize these issues. Speaking before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee he said, "To attempt to justify the loss of one American life in Vietnam, Cambodia or Laos by linking such a loss to the preservation of freedom is to use the height of criminal hypocrisy. Our last mission is to search out and destroy the last vestige of this barbaric war."
Today, Kerry believes the march was a major success. "We got people to understand that a large number of veterans felt the same way a lot of people here had felt. It changed the whole complexion of the anti-war effort. Those who'd been afraid of speaking out against the war for fear of cutting down on 'support for the boys,' suddenly saw the troops were against it too."
However, Kerry and the VVAW received strong criticism from conservatives at home. In The National Review, William F. Buckley, Jr., '50, called their efforts "an assault on the proposition that what we have in America is truly worth defending," and asked, "How will the words of John Kerry stand up in years to come?"
Those words probably hurt Kerry in his unsuccessful Senate race in 1972, in which he says his past as an activist "came up significantly" as a campaign issue. Now he feels that his service in Vietnam has had a positive effect on his more recent political career. "I see a change in attitudes since 1972," he says. "There's a much greater tendency to accept Vietnam veterans and the difficulties they faced over there and when they returned." In Stanley Karnow's book Vietnam, Kerry is quoted saying, "The country didn't give a shit about the guys coming back, or what they'd gone through. The feeling towards them was, 'Stay away. Don't contaminate us with whatever you've brought back from Vietnam.'"
Veterans also had to cope with feelings of guilt for their wartime activities. In The New Soldier, Kerry's chronology of the march, written in 1971, which includes stories of brutality which veterans have painfully related, Kerry wrote, "Individuals are trying, by denying themselves the luxury of forgetting about their acts, to spare others the agony of having to commit them at some time in the future." He believes that effort has been partly successful. "Attitudes towards Central America and Lebanon are clearly influenced by the reservations this country has about its involvement in Vietnam."
In the epilogue to The New Soldier, Kerry wrote, "There are two Americas, the one the speeches are about, and the one we really are." He and the veterans' group he represented wanted to reconcile the two. "As for making speeches," Kerry now says of his lifelong practice, "it's our process to create change. You open your mouth and compel people to change their points of view."