Publication date: March 2024
Volume: 56
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors-in-Chief: Jabez Choi, Abbey Kim
- Executive Editor: Paola Santos
- Managing Editor: Kylie Volavongsa
- Verse Editors: Amal Biskin, Cleo Maloney
- Senior Editors: Meg Buzbee, Ella Goldblum, Nicole Dirks, Zachary Groz, Lazo Gitchos
- Associate Editors: Naina Agrawal-Hardin, Chloe Nguyen, Kinnia Cheuk, John Nguyen, Viola Clune, Ingrid Rodríguez Vila, Grace Ellis, Netanel Schwartz, Aanika Eragam, Etai Smotrich-Barr, Maggie Grether, Anouk Yeh, Samantha Liu
- Copy Editors: Yvonne Agyapong, Iz Klemmer, Connor Arakaki, Adam Levine, Lilly Chai, Victoria Siebor, Mia Cortés Castro
- Podcast Editors: Meg Buzbee, Suraj Singareddy, Sawan Garde, Adam Winograd
- Creative Director: Chris de Santis
- Design Editors: Tashroom Ahsan, Cate Roser, Sarah Feng, Jessica Sánchez, Alicia Gan, Daniela Woldenberg, Angela Huo, Ashley Zheng, Lily Lin
- Photography: Nithya Guthikonda, Makda Assefa, Ellie Park, Serena Ulammandakh


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- The Tarmac Next Door - Meg Buzbee
- Penning Liberation - Kingson Wills
- Decked Out - Zoya Haq 
- First Light - Sophie Lamb
- Tax Break - Ai-Li Hollander
- Home Truths - Isabelle Qian
- Name it to a God - Madeline Art
- Moses - Kanyinsola Anifowoshe
- That Summer - Lucy TonThat
- The Old Acre - Lucy Hodgman
- Writing in the Margins - Chloe Nguyen


**Title: Letter from the editors**
**Author: Abbey, Jabez, Paola, & Kylie**
**Page number(s): 2**

Dear readers,
There are a lot of ways to say goodbye. The poets have tried. Louise Bogan 
calls it “leave-taking.” Emily Brontë reminds us to “follow out the happiest 
story.” Perhaps Yvor Winters puts it best: “This is the terminal, the break.” 
Here we are, at the terminal of our tenure, and there’s not much else to do 
but wave.

This issue holds a lot of goodbyes. In our cover story, Meg Buzbee explores 
the pain of saying goodbye to a quiet neighborhood taken over by airport 
turbulence. Chloe Nguyen explores Connecticut’s new ethnic studies elective 
and helps us bid farewell to the history curriculum of the past. We have 
other, smaller goodbyes—odes to the farmland that borders our city campus, 
farewells to staying quiet in spoken word poetry. A goodbye to home and all 
of its food, to the expenses of the year, to churches and summer and loved 
ones.

In our last issue as a managing board, we felt these farewells in everything 
we did: our last pitch meeting, our last production weekend, our last design 
proofing all-nighter. Our farewell isn’t unique. When we started our tenure 
as a board, we read over letters of advice from boards before ours and 
combed through their challenges. This February, we wrote our own letters. 
They are also a form of farewell, one that means we will be there for you. 
We’re trying to think of this not as a goodbye but as a see you later. We can’t 
wait to see what our next board does, and the next one, and the next. This 
journal is as good as our lineage. We’ll be waiting when the plane lands.

With TNJ love always,
Abbey, Jabez, Paola, & Kylie


**Title: Thank you to our donors**
**Author: N/A**

*Donated twice. Thank you!
Neela Banerjee*
Anson M. Beard
James Carney
Andrew Court 
Romy Drucker 
Jeffrey Foster 
David Gerber 
David Greenberg* 
Matthew Hamel
Makiko Harunari 
James Lowe 
Chaitanya Mehra
Ben Mueller 
Sarah Nutman 
Peter Phleger 
Jeffrey Pollock
Adriane Quinlan 
Elizabeth Sledge 
Gabriel Snyder 
Fred Strebeigh 
Arya Sundaram
Stuart Weinzimer
Steven Weisman 
Suzanne Wittebort
Members & Directors: Emily Bazelon • Haley Cohen 
Gilliland • Peter Cooper • Andy Court • Jonathan Dach • 
Susan Dominus • Kathrin Lassila • Elizabeth Sledge • Fred 
Strebeigh • Aliyya Swaby
Advisors: Neela Banerjee • Richard Bradley • Susan 
Braudy • Lincoln Caplan • Jay Carney • Joshua Civin • 
Richard Conniff • Ruth Conniff • Elisha Cooper • David 
Greenberg • Daniel Kurtz-Phelan • Laura Pappano • 
Jennifer Pitts • Julia Preston • Lauren Rawbin • David 
Slifka • John Swansburg • Anya Kamenetz • Steven 
Weisman • Daniel Yergin
Friends: Nicole Allan • Margaret Bauer • Mark Badger and 
Laura Heymann • Anson M. Beard • Susan Braudy • Julia 
Calagiovanni • Elisha Cooper • Peter Cooper • Andy 
Court The Elizabethan Club • Leslie Dach • David 
Freeman and Judith Gingold • Paul Haigney and 
Tracey Roberts • Bob Lamm • James Liberman • Alka 
Mansukhani • Benjamin Mueller • Sophia Nguyen • 
Valerie Nierenberg • Morris Panner • Jennifer Pitts • R. 
Anthony Reese • Eric Rutkow • Lainie Rutkow • Laura 
Saavedra and David Buckley • Anne-Marie Slaughter • 
Elizabeth Sledge • Caroline Smith • Gabriel Snyder • 
Elizabeth Steig • John Jeremiah Sullivan • Daphne and 
David Sydney • Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather • 
Blake Townsend Wilson • Daniel Yergin • William Yuen


**Title: The Tarmac Next Door**
**Author: Meg Buzbee**
**Page number(s): 1, 3**

The Tarmac Next Door
Neighbors sound the alarm as Tweed New Haven 
Airport sprawls. 


**Title: Contents**
**Page number(s): 3**

Contents
14
4
6
29
45
30
24
5
9
40
Neighbors sound the alarm as Tweed New 
Haven Airport sprawls. 
By Meg Buzbee
cover story
point of departure
Penning Liberation
A writer explores The Word, a New Haven literary arts program for 
students to gather, write, and perform.
By Kingson Wills
snapshots
Decked Out
A tribute to New Haven’s only dedicated skate-shop, Plush, and the 
public art of street skating. 
By Zoya Haq 
First Light
Led by larger-than-life Chef Duff, Sunrise Cafe provides unhoused 
New Haveners breakfast and community.
By Sophie Lamb
Tax Break 
Under a complicated national tax filing system, New Haven 
residents and  Yale students come together at the downtown Volunteer 
Income Tax Assistance site. 
By Ai-Li Hollander
profile
Home Truths
A writer seeks out authentic Chinese cuisine guided by Chef Jiang, the 
man behind his eponymous restaurant.
By Isabelle Qian
personal essay
Name it to a God
A writer finds holiness in pews, paintings, and poetry.
By Madeline Art
poem
Moses
By Kanyinsola Anifowoshe
aside
That Summer
By Lucy TonThat
endnote
The Old Acre
A writer breaks ground on the myth-like delights of the Yale Farm. 
By Lucy Hodgman
crossword: “Skate Park”  by Adam Winograd, page 47.
32
Writing in the Margins
Connecticut became the first state to mandate 
an ethnic studies elective in high schools. 
How are New Haven teachers and students 
navigating the curriculum?
By Chloe Nguyen



**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author: Kingson Wills**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
t’s a full house in the gym of High 
School in the Community. Tennis 
shoes squeak as students file into silver 
rows of bleachers. The air fills with the 
chatter of three hundred high schoolers 
left to their own devices.

In front of the crowd is Keiantae, a 
16-year-old student rapper about to per-
form at his school’s Black History Month 
pep rally. 

“I try not to really look at people 
because when I do I get nervous,” he told 
me after the show.

But this time, Keiantae can’t resist. 
As he gazes up from the shiny linoleum 
flooring, he is met with hundreds of eyes.

Giving a nod to the sound technician, 
Keiantae takes a deep breath and grips 
the mic.

Keiantae isn’t just any rapper, he’s a 
student poet. He’s been honing his craft 
in The Word, a literary arts program that 
has operated for twelve years in New 
Haven. The Word’s goal is to facilitate 
a radically inclusive writing and perfor-
mance environment grounded in poetry, 
rap, and song. Every week, the group 
hosts “Writing Liberation Workshops” 
at the Neighborhood Music School—
the group’s home base—and in-class 
poetry workshops in New Haven Public 
Schools, where students receive guid-
ance on crafting poetry.

It is these workshops that brought 
me to Keiantae one winter morning 
in the “Introduction to Poetry” class of 
MarcAnthony Solli ’91.


Keiantae is part of a new initiative 
by The Word. He is one of four New 
Haven Public School teens selected 
for a program that trains and hires stu-
dents to become Teaching Artists like 
Tarishi. The fourteen-week program, 
which pays students $25 an hour during 
training, offers hands-on experiences 
led by mentors. Participants learn 
how to create course curriculums, lead 
workshops, and gel with other students 
in the program. These skills prepare 
them to eventually serve as indepen-
dent teaching artists in New Haven.

When I asked him about his class-
room’s partnership with The Word, 
High School in the Community 
teacher 
MarcAnthony 
could 
not 
understate its importance. 
“It is nothing short of curriculum 
changing…allowing the curriculum to 
become a living, tangible, real thing for 
students where they see someone per-
forming at the highest level of their art,” 
he says. “And that it is accessible. Right in 
front of them. Right down the street on 
Audubon Street.” 

Keiantae sees The Word as a space to 
engage with his art and process hardship. 
 “New Haven is basically a place you 
want to get out of,” Keiantae said. “In 
order for me to make New Haven bet-
ter, something’s gotta give, something’s 
gotta change.”

Keiantae first started rapping at the 
age of 12 after the loss of his father to 
gun violence.

“I rap about the minor setbacks to 
a major comeback,” Keiantae said. This 
adage seems to also be the theme of 
The Word. 

On the first day we met, Tarishi 
and I sat across from each other in the 
Neighborhood Music School, about 
a mile away from High School in the 
Community. Students meet here weekly 
to practice for poetry slams and partic-
ipate in Writing Liberation Workshops. 
The day I visited was different 
than usual. The snack bowl of Goldfish, 
pretzels, and other goodies was still 
full. In the room, no one was there 
but me, Tarishi, and one student poet, 
Maximilian, who was also experiencing 
The Word for the first time.

Low turnout has plagued The Word 
since the start of the pandemic. “A lot of 
people have been struggling with after-
school programs,” Tarishi said, sliding me 
a pack of gummies. COVID-19 has imposed 
hardships on previous attendees of The 
Word: students lack the time to make art 
as they scramble to find jobs to support 
families—not to mention the anxiety that 
comes with moving out of social isolation 
and trying to resume “normal” life with 
face-to-face interactions. 

“But I feel like we are making a lot 
of progress and strides in the in-school 
workshops,” he said, referencing the 
in-class poetry workshops that The 
Word currently leads in eight public 
middle and high schools in New Haven.

In freezing weather, teens crept into 
class. Icy shoes scuffled along wooden 
floorboards as the first bell of the school 
day rang. One final student walked in 
late and found a seat in the back, a crum-
pled brown bag of McDonald’s peeking 
out from his backpack.

Shortly after, Tarishi “M.I.D.N.I.G.H.T.” 
Schuler entered, dressed in bright crimson 
red glasses and a hoodie to match. Tarishi 
is the current artistic director of The Word 
and the leader of that day’s poetry workshop. 
“M.I.D.N.I.G.H.T. is a pseudonym,” he 
told me. “It’s an acronym for a name I 
gave myself in my late teens. It stands for 
‘Messiah Is Dominant Now Inspired God 
Helps Tarishi.’ I was born in 1976 when 
Alex Haley came out with Roots and a lot of 
parents were naming their children African 
names…I didn’t know until my early thir-
ties, my name Tarishi is Swahili for ‘mes-
senger.’ So I ended up being a poet not 
knowing that’s what my name meant.”

Tarishi, unfazed by the yawning 
class of sleepy high schoolers, asked for 
everyone in the room to stand. Chairs 
squeaked, heads rose, and shoulders 
slouched across the classroom as fifteen 
pairs of groggy eyes turned toward the 
smiling poet.

“Repeat after me,”  Tarishi said before 
clearing his throat. “MEeeeee, MIiiiiii, 
MOOooooooooo!”

Giggles and laughs fluttered through 
the air as the students exchanged amused 
glances. This wasn’t what they had expected. 
“He brings life to his poems,” one of 
the high school students told me after 
class. “His personality is contagious!” 
another said.

The mood shifted. One by one, stu-
dents shared their own poems, greeted 
with applause from the rest of the class. 
Tarishi let the students put on their best 
“poetry-writing music” on the class com-
puter, which the kids used as an opportu-
nity to suggest their favorite new TikTok 
songs. Students raised their hands ner-
vously, then quickly lowered them when 
Tarishi jokingly cold-called them to pres-
ent. If students were too nervous (which 
they often were), Tarisihi recited his own 
poems first.

Keiantae sat quietly in the back of 
the classroom. His hoodie hid two clan-
destine white AirPods looping the drill 
beat to his newest poem titled “I Have a 
Dream” for the upcoming pep rally.

“M.I.D.N.I.G.H.T.’s a cool dude, and 
he’s so into it. I can’t explain it,” Keiantae 
told me. “It’s like he brings a different type 
of energy, and I mess with it.”

Back in the gym of High School in 
the Community, students rise from their 
seats. Bodies sway and phones flash to 
the beat. Keiantae looks out to a sea of 
sparkling lights. As he raps the lyrics he 
perfected in The Word’s in-class work-
shop, he announces: “Alright, now I know 
that y’all mess with it. Let me really give 
y’all a show.” ∎


**Title: Moses**
**Author: Kanyinsola Anifowoshe**
**Page number(s): 5**

In 1887, Moses dies, leaving Sarah alone with two-year-old A’lelia.
I have lifted the still slick tongue of the man.
I have placed the coin—cool and heavy—beneath.
I have let the mouth swing shut. Relinquished
the blue-bruised body.

If there is such a thing as love, I have trembled
in its shadow—thick velvet cape
trailing, catching in the splintered floor.
I have wondered what type of woman
this shroud will become.

I have felt a small creature watching me
with cavernous eyes. In the night,
I have shown my mother-teeth.


This poem is inspired by the life and times of 
Madame C.J. Walker (born Sarah Breedlove). 


**Title: Snapshot**
**Author: Zoya Haq**
**Page number(s): 6**

f you turn left from Chapel 
Street onto Orange Street and walk 
about a block, chances are you’ll see 
a group of teenagers performing kick-
flips and ollies on the pavement. They’ll 
be outside a storefront with a giant wall 
of glass. That’s Plush: New Haven’s only 
dedicated skate shop, decorated with 
colorful skateboard decks and populated 
with the trendiest gear on the market. 

Sir-Michael Burrow is the employee 
behind Plush’s white, rounded counter. 
As soon as I walk in, he shoots me a big 
smile and waves me over. “Feel free 
to ask any questions about anything 
in shop, and I’ll pull it out for you,” 
he says. He’s sporting a simple white 
T-shirt and blue jeans, nothing 
flashy. His outfit blends in with the 
plain white wall behind him. White 
accents—they’re everywhere. They 
contrast sharply with the colorful 
racks of clothes that hang a few 
feet from him, displaying popular 
brands such as Carhartt, Dickies, 
and Converse. 

Burrow is from Waterbury, 
Connecticut, and has been skat-
ing in New Haven since he was 
17. Now, at 25, he has a glint in his 
eyes when he talks about skating. 
He’s flanked by containers over-
flowing with skate periodicals and 
poster books. 

Burrow’s favorite word is “side-
bar.” As we begin to talk about 
Plush and its connection to New 
Haven skating, he throws it into 
our conversation to add more con-
text to the growth of Connecticut’s 
skating culture. “Just a sidebar,” he 
says. “Another sidebar.” 

Sidebar: a skate video filmed in 
Connecticut in the nineteen-nine-
ties called Mama’s Boys brought 
more skaters to the city and 
revitalized New Haven’s scene. Sidebar: 
when Plush opened, Vans came and shot 
a piece that put New Haven on the map 
again. Sidebar: for the past few decades, a 
vibrant skate film culture has been brew-
ing in the city.

Before Plush opened in 2022, the 
last skateboarding shop in the city 
closed in 2015. The closure left New 
Haven skaters with a long commute to 
find gear and community.

Alexis 
Sablone, 
an 
Olympic 
skateboarder, and Trevor Thompson, 
also a professional skater, both grew 
up around New Haven and recog-
nized the inaccessibility of central-
ized hubs for skating culture in their 
home state and city. They decided to 
open Plush, harnessing the power of 
the local skateboarding community, 
and the expertise of Connecticut-area 
skaters like Burrow, to bring the shop 
to life.

Burrow tells me that their industry 
connections as professional skaters made 
the opening process seamless.

“Anyone can open a skate 
shop, but, like, you need to know 
what the hell’s actually going 
on in the trend scene and what 
companies are cool like the back 
of your hand,” Burrow said. “As 
pros, Alexis and Trevor are 
friends with people who are pros. 
It’s about being plugged in.”

Rifling through the clothing 
racks of the store—organized 
by color to create a rainbow of 
choices—you’ll find high-end 
skate brands ranging from the 
more commercial Vans to the 
Colorado-based 
Polar 
Skate 
Co. Behind the hanging clothes 
is a mural of skate decks and 
boards; to the left of them, you’ll 
find a wall displaying the most 
trendy sneakers on the market. 
The highly-curated selection of 
options in Plush and the aes-
thetic of their presentation make 
it feel like not just a skate shop, 
but an art gallery. 

Plush’s role in New Haven 
isn’t really retail, though. It’s to 
create a space where New Haven 
skaters can come together and 
build camaraderie. 

Plush holds monthly events, 
like skate video screenings and 



**Title: Decked Out**
**Author: Zoya Haq**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
7
TheNewJournal          March 2024
pop-up vintage markets. “It’s a meet up 
place,” Burrow says. “You have every-
one knowing that there’s this one place 
where they can come together and, you 
know, skate together whenever.”

Community hubs like Plush nat-
urally function as sites for structural 
change, too. As a centralized location for 
skaters, Plush has been instrumental in 
advocating for more skating spaces in 
New Haven. The majority of this advo-
cacy can be tied back to Ben Berkowitz, 
co-owner of Plush.

Since lending a hand to Sablone 
and Thompson in the opening of Plush, 
Berkowitz, who is also a local skater, has 
used the scale of Plush’s wide-reaching 
community as proof to the city of the 
need for more skating locations. He’s 
been successful. Berkowitz worked with 
New Haven and the Parking Authority 
Board to transform Temple Street 
Parking Garage, a formerly unofficial 
skating hub, into an official indoor skate-
park. With his encouragement, city lead-
ers opened Scantlebury Park, a skatepark 
on Ashmun Street, and a new skating 
bowl on George Street in 2021.

However, the preservation of street 
skating, an essential part of skateboard-
ing culture, has been harder to reconcile 
with the city—and with Yale.

While street skating is not techni-
cally illegal in New Haven, it is heav-
ily policed, especially on and around 
Yale’s campus. Beinecke Plaza, a popu-
lar skate spot, is often patrolled by Yale 
Security personnel, and skaters have 
faced backlash—including removal—
for trying to skate it and other parts 
of campus.

“Street skateboarding… it’s kind of 
what makes skateboarding skateboard-
ing,” Burrow says. “The spirit of resilience, 
of getting kicked out and coming back 
is a big portion of street skateboarding. 
Builds character.”

When I walked into Plush, Burrow 
had been laughing with four teenage 
boys, all decked in mostly-black baggy 
jeans and T-shirts. As soon as Burrow 
and I start talking, the boys flee to the 
street. I can still see them outside of 
Plush’s giant window, skating in circles 
around the block. One of the boys comes 
up and taps on the window, making a 
face at Burrow. He laughs.

“I’ve known these kids for a while 
because I’ve been skating out here for a 
few years,” Burrow says. “That’s another 
thing—skating, shops like these, it 
gives the kids a place to go instead of 
a bar or some other time-wasting thing. 
Skating is…it’s freedom. We’re giving 
them that here.” 

I grew up skateboarding. Walking 
into Plush, I was instantly comforted by 
the familiarity of the shop’s environment, 
its palpably laid-back energy. Hip-hop 
music played softly over the loudspeakers 
as the teenagers around the counter 
laughed with Burrow. I could have met 
them in a skatepark back home—they 
were wearing the same outfits that were 
so recognizable to me, and had the same 
quippy way of speaking that felt like a 
constant challenge. Skating not only lib-
erates; it also connects.

Another tap at the window. It’s been 
a few minutes since the last. Same kid—
same face, small and covered by a mop of 
light-brown hair. Burrow’s eyes light up. 
It’s clear that these kids aren’t just shop 
regulars. They’ve become his friends.

Burrow strolls to the door and yells 
out into the chilly February evening. 
“Mead! Get in here.”

The kid—no older than 17—glides 
up to the door and steps in. He’s holding 
a mini, skateboard-shaped fidget toy. He 
comes up to me at the counter and gives 
me a nod. The fidget skateboard flips in 
his fingers.

Mead taps his foot on the ground. 
“Are you a student?”

When I nod my head yes, he looks at 
Burrow and takes a deep breath.

Mead has been skating for six years. 
“Not that long,” he assures me. His ter-
rain is the street, not the parks. Echoing 
Burrow’s reflection on the power of street 
skating, he tells me that street skating 
preserves skating culture.

“A lot of people that don’t skate 
assume it’s all about the parks, but 
skating started on the street, it’s meant 
for the street,” he tells me. “Street skat-
ing is something you can learn from. 
You need dedication for it. It’s escapism. 
I use it to cope.”


8
March 2024          TheNewJournal
For the first time in our conversation, 
he makes direct eye contact with me. 
“You go to Yale?”

I nod. 

Yale’s Schwarzman Center has 
funneled thousands of dollars into 
local skatepark construction, including 
Scantlebury Park’s and the skate bowl 
on George Street. While the main 
publicized reason for this funding has 
been to support the cultural benefits of 
skateboarding, Mead thinks that the 
popularity of Beinecke Plaza as a skate 
spot acts as a secondary motivation. 

“I’ve been wanting to tell some-
one this, so Yale should hear it. They 
have power,” he says. He flips his fid-
get skateboard on the counter. “Just 
because the city and Yale keep build-
ing these skateparks and stuff doesn’t 
mean that they change anything for us 
street skaters. Pouring money into that 
isn’t going to change the fact that we’re 
going to skate Beinecke.”

He articulates his final point with 
a passion that differs from his earlier 
drawl: “And if they really want us to stay 
off their property, don’t build the skate-
parks outside. Like, centralize it in the 
city. It’s a trek to get to the parks.”

He’s not wrong. The closest park 
to Plush is Scantlebury Park, located 
behind Pauli Murray College off of 
Ashmun Street. It’s a twenty-five-min-
ute walk from Plush’s centralized, down-
town location.

The next day, I make the journey up 
to Scantlebury, located off the Canal 
Trail. My jacket barely keeps me warm 
against the frigid wind. It beats at my 
face as I navigate the icy sidewalk. The 
playground next to the skatepark is, 
unsurprisingly, empty. As I trek up the 
short hill that leads to the base of the 
park, though, I can hear the click of 
wheels against asphalt. The only person 
within eyesight is a single skateboarder 
practicing tricks on the slopes.

His name is Michael Skirkanich. 
He’s middle-aged, definitely older than 
the kids I saw at Plush. Unlike them, he’s 
wearing a helmet. “Don’t want to crack 
my head open,” he says. When I sit down 
on the concrete next to the 
skatepark, we begin to talk 
about Scantlebury. 

“I like being out here 
alone,” he tells me. “When 
I’m here, I don’t care about, 
think about anything else. 
It’s 
just 
skateboarding. 
Without the squirts—the 
teens—I can focus.”

As we’re talking, he 
pauses every so often to 
focus on a particular trick 
or flip. “I come out here 
seven, eight hours a day,” he 
explains. “I see every day as 
a good day or a training day.”

Unlike 
Mead, 
the 
skatepark is an essential 
space for Michael. It pro-
vides a structured space for 
him to focus on the “artistic” 
side of his skating craft.

After all, to him, skate-
boarding is, in one word, 
self-fulfillment. “Not many 
people can do this, and 
that fulfills me. Landing 
a trick, the sound, it’s like 
music, it fills me up.” 

Music. He’s right. I’m 
reminded again of my own 
skating roots. I used to love 
the musicality of the sport, the rhythm of 
the wheels. I think that, in a strange way, 
my yearning for that feeling was what 
made me so interested in the presence 
of skateboarding on every street in New 
Haven—one of the first things I noticed 
about the city was how much skating 
was embedded into its culture. At street 
corners and in parks, on campus and off, 
there are skaters. The sound of wheels on 
asphalt is an essential part of the urban 
melody of my new home.

I stopped skateboarding when I was 
15 because of a shoelace-in-wheel trip 
that left me in an arm cast for a month. 
Sitting criss-cross on the side of the 
curving, concrete slopes, I tell Skirkanich 
this. I tell him about the weird fear I 
have of stepping on a board now, about 
how it reminds me of the crack I heard—
and the instant shoot of pain I felt—four 
years ago when I last did it. He scoffs.

“You’re telling me you broke your 
wrist four years ago and haven’t gotten 
back on a board? I broke my ankle. I’m 
here,” he says. I’m reminded of Burrow’s 
point: that skating is all about resil-
ience. You just have to keep going for 
it. Skirkanich echoes him. “You have to 
keep trying, keep going for it.”

“Come stand on my board and you’ll 
see,” he says. “You gotta try.” 
He waves me over, kicks his board 
towards me. “It’s all about baby steps.”

I balance myself on his board. 
He holds his arm out. “Hey, it’s nice. 
Mercedes of skateboards. Be careful,” he 
makes sure to let me know. For the first 
time in a long while, I feel the libera-
tion of skating. How it is freedom, like 
Burrow told me, how it is self-fulfill-
ment, like Michael tells me, and I get it. 
It clicks.

Back at Plush, Burrow left me with 
some words that pretty much sum it up. 
“New Haven, skating, music, culture, film, 
they all go hand in hand,” Burrow told 
me. “Skating is art. It needs to be treated 
like art. It needs to be respected like art.” 
Art on the street—art in the park. 
Both go hand in hand. Skateboarding, 
as art, is an inherently public sport. It 
deserves space both in structured envi-
ronments and in the city at large. 
Stand on a board like I did, and 
maybe you’ll get it too. ∎
Zoya Haq is a first-year in 
Saybrook College.


**Title: Snapshot**
**Author: Sophie Lamb**
**Page number(s): 9**

9
Snapshot
First Light
illustrations by Cate roser & Photography by Nithya Guthikonda
By Sophie Lamb
Led by larger-than-life Chef Duff, Sunrise Cafe provides unhoused
New Haveners breakfast and community.



**Title: First Light**
**Author: Sophie Lamb**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Paul McDuffy has been feeding people since he was 12. “We were raised poor,” he tells me after his Friday shift at Sunrise Cafe. “And because of being poor, my mom taught us how to stretch $1 in the community.” McDuffy has lived in New Haven his entire life. He reminisces about the butcher at Ferraro’s Market who taught him to use his family’s food stamps to buy food in bulk, and the Westville neighborhood barbecues where his mom laid out burgers dripping in mayo and relish. 

McDuffy—or Chef Duff, as he’s affectionately called by guests and coworkers at Sunrise Cafe—likes to use “we” interchangeably with “I” when he talks about food. Towering over staff in a threadbare apron and wrecked purple Jordans—a gift from his best friend and “corner brother”—Duff has a gentle gravity. He grew up in the nineteen-eighties, as New Haven faced economic collapse. The city was razing once-vibrant communities to construct the Oak Street Connector interstate, and the fiery factories that guarded the city’s harbor were transforming into vacant red-brick shells. From 1970 to 1980, the city went from being the thirty-eighth most impoverished in the nation to the seventh. By the time Duff was in ninth grade, a quarter of New Haven youth were living below the poverty line. 

Duff’s classrooms were marked by conflict. His mom used to warn him: “Kids act out and bully other kids because they’re hungry.” She would pack an extra chicken sandwich in his bag each day to feed friends who didn’t have food at home. Watching them smile after a good meal invigorated pre-teen Duff: “We can show people love through food [so] I made a promise to feed as many people as possible.”


In 2015, Duff began working overnight shifts as a security guard. He recalls walking past a group of ten unhoused girls huddled against the morning chill on the New Haven Green, on his way to the Chapel Street bus stop. When one approached him, his immediate reflex was to hand her the contents of his wallet. “She politely said ‘No, sir, I really don’t want your money. I really am hungry.’” Instead of taking the bus home, Duff took the bus to Stop & Shop, bought $12 worth of canned bologna and Wonder Bread, and returned to the Green. 

He kept coming back. Five days a week, Duff finished his guard shift and started cooking. His meals morphed from bologna sandwiches to boiling pots of meatball chili; he went from feeding ten people to hundreds. Friends and strangers alike helped him buy groceries and serve. “It was cool,” Duff says, “It was like the community was backing me.” In November 2020, word of Duff’s cooking and tenacity reached Sunrise Cafe’s doorstep. At the time, Sunrise was struggling with a dramatic drop in guests and fluctuations in kitchen staff. Now it’s bustling. Open weekdays at 6:30 a.m., Sunrise serves free breakfast to some three hundred unhoused guests out of the basement of St. Paul and St. James’s church. Chef Duff uses donated ingredients to cook a perpetually rotating menu of fried fish tacos, sausage and grits, lasagna, French toast, and fried chicken. When I ask why lasagna for breakfast, Duff laughs. “I want to treat them. I want them to eat what they usually don’t get to eat.”


I first volunteered at Sunrise in late October. On the dark walk along Chapel Street, I anticipated a standard soup kitchen—bags of pre-packed food, limited seating, and a line of people twisting out onto the sidewalk. Instead, when I stepped through its glass doors, I was greeted with rows of white tablecloths stretched taut over wooden tables, slouching with fat vases of flowers and steaming cups of coffee. Guests sat and laughed, or danced to music spilling from a piano in the corner. A couple of volunteers ran from an industrial kitchen out into the dining room, balancing trays piled high with fish tacos, french toast, and orange juice. 

Sunrise’s full menu and restaurant-style ordering system is the work of Ellen Gabrielle, who founded Sunrise in 2015. She envisioned a more humane soup kitchen—complete with a menu where guests can order and have food brought to them in a restaurant-style service model.


Sally, a retired nurse and social worker, has been volunteering for Sunrise since the beginning. She watched Ellen build the Cafe. “Yes, these places are very important for feeding… people. [But] the goal from the beginning was to make [Sunrise] a dignified place to eat.” Throughout our conversation, she keeps returning to the word “dignified.” If guests need an extra pair of gloves, clean socks, or someone to talk to, they ask for Sally. Wrapped in a mask, glasses, gloves, and a plastic apron, she slips between the kitchen, food pantry, and clothing closet with her keychain in hand. 

Most mornings, Robert eats behind Sunrise’s piano. “I play it any chance I can. So I don’t forget,” he tells me with a smile, adjusting his black beanie as we talk. “Not having a place to be is a lot of pain to bear, so I use piano to get away from the suffering.” He pauses, placing his battered copy of R&B For Dummies on the music rack, and erupts: long fingers delicately pulling across the length of the glittering Yamaha, head swaying, eyes closed. Finding serendipitous joy like this is Robert’s driving conviction. “It’s good you can come to a place early in the morning to eat. And I get to play the piano here. That brings me happiness.”


Fostering a comforting space hasn’t always been easy. When Duff first arrived, “it was hard for us [to] even serve a meal without a fight breaking out.” He’s “quit in his head” a thousand times over. The weight of these challenges is built into the fabric of Sunrise: the heavily bolted pantry, plastic knives, and worn-through floors.


“Some days it’s intense. People have their moments,” says Casey, a mom of five who just moved to New Haven from Alaska. “Moments” are what Casey calls fights. Her oldest son, Eprum, a tall, curly-haired teen, sits next to me. “[Eprum] has moments all the time… because that’s what they are. They’re over soon.” 

I sit down with Casey during a lull in my morning service. She’s soft-spoken, swathed in two jackets to keep warm from the January chill. As we talk, she turns away from me to lock eyes with Eprum, or leans over to brush the hair from her one-year-old’s forehead. Eprum is autistic, and Casey is solely responsible for his education. Between teaching and caring for her toddler, Casey hasn’t had time to find a job. The family is currently living in the Continuum Shelter on Foxon Boulevard. At the end of February, their ninety-day stay period will run out. “We don’t know what we’re going to do,” she says, her fingers wrapped tightly around Eprum’s hand. They’re hoping to receive a Section 8 voucher—a federally mandated program that subsidizes the cost of rent for low-income people—but, according to the Connecticut Department of Housing, it can take up to “a few months’’ for their application to be processed.


Robert is also trying to get Section 8 benefits. “To get a voucher you need papers. And it’s impossible to keep track of papers when you carry your life on your back. It’s not like you can lock your Social Security Card in a bush.” He laughs and fiddles with a few keys. “Right?” 

The day we talk, Robert is leaving Sunrise early to attend a series of job interviews. He’s nervous about employment—he’s still reeling from a string of exploitative employers and worries the time spent on a job will be time taken away from finding housing. Earlier this year, he was hired to put up a wall for a church—a three-week stint of nailing, plastering, painting, and sweating in a church basement. “I went to the lady for my paycheck,” he says, “and she told me, ‘I’m not paying you.’ They know that if you don’t have a permit, a license, not insured, you don’t have a leg to stand on.” 

Between fleeting conversations with guests and volunteers, I met a construction worker reeling from eviction, a musician from New Orleans who found a place to live, and a Yale Law School graduate grieving a brutal divorce. Despite varying tracks to homelessness, guests share parallel experiences in their fight to escape it. They describe their first nights without a home spent on friends’ couches and in cars; when their friends’ patience ran out, they turned to temporary shelters. These shelters house people anywhere from three to ninety days. But as homelessness rates continue to increase in Connecticut, shelter housing is stretched thin, leaving long waiting lists, and overcrowded accommodation. In hopes of a more reliable option, many apply for Section 8. But, as in Casey and Robert’s case, this process can take months. As shelter slips in and out of place, many end up on the streets. Most days, Robert walks until he finds somewhere safe enough to sleep: “There’s really no place where you can sit and be. You’re just wandering.”


In Sunrise’s cluttered kitchen, I meet Nelson, a dimpled, grinning 30-something who came to New Haven from Puerto Rico when he was 7. The move made him grow up fast; he supported himself and his sisters through high school before meeting his girlfriend of ten years. Nelson first became homeless after his girlfriend suffered a stroke, and he couldn’t spread his income thin enough to cover the costs of rent and healthcare. He thought he would never escape. “I used to sleep in hallways,” he tells me. “When I couldn’t find food, I just drank water.” For twelve years, he bounced between housing arrangements and living on the streets until landing in prison four years ago. He’s currently living in a halfway house while he works on getting back on his feet. One of the ways he’s healing is by waking up at 5 a.m. every morning to volunteer at Sunrise. Nelson brims with enthusiasm, carrying trays of food three at a time, high-fiving and hugging me as we pass each other. “I wished someone would help me when I was starving on the streets. Now I can be that help for someone else.” 

For many of the volunteers, working at Sunrise is a way to reconcile their experiences with homelessness.


However, for many of the guests, eating at Sunrise can hold up a mirror to the battles they are facing. Robert stops me at the door. “I need you to know I don’t ever feel good having to come here another day," he says.“You go in Sunrise and you look around and you see what you’re going through ten by ten by a hundred times.” 

Duff believes there can be power in that. “Get angry. We’re all in this fight together,” he tells all of Sunrise’s guests. He wants them to walk through these doors and “leave better”—whether that is wiping down a tablecloth or getting sober. Duff speaks a lot about the successes and failures he watches pass through Sunrise’s walls: “Everybody who [gets] a job comes to me and says ‘Chef, I have a job.’” They tell him if they found new housing or bought their girlfriend a coat. They also tell him if they relapse or get kicked out of a shelter. 

Running to the back pantry to collect a bag of mango yogurt, stuffed unicorns, and applesauce, Duff triumphantly chants, “Baby’s here, baby’s here!” Arms laden with goodies—and a steaming stack of chocolate pancakes—he hugs Casey, Eprum, and Casey’s one-year-old. The chaos of Sunrise swells around them: piano filling the air, steam rising from cups of hot coffee, laughter booming from the kitchen. Casey left her support system when she left Alaska. “But Chef takes care of us,” she smiles. 

“Evil works twenty-four hours a day. It never takes a break. It never rests. It never stops.” Duff’s voice cracks as he tells me this. You can feel this evil pressing in on all sides of Sunrise, a midnight swarm of evictions and addictions, of bad employers and bottomless legal battles. “I gotta go ahead and make sure we love each other.” ∎



**Title: A Podcast About Yale and New Haven**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Check out the second episode of the TNJ Podcast! In this episode, Suraj 
Singareddy interviews organizers with Yalies4Palestine and Jews4Ceasefire, 
Meg Buzbee digs deeper into her investigation on Tweed New Haven 
Airport, and Sophie Lamb brings us into Sunrise Cafe. Listen to these sto-
ries, and more, on The New Journal website!


**Title: The Tarmac Next Door**
**Author: Meg Buzbee**
**Page number(s): 15**

Neighbors sound the alarm as Tweed 
New Haven Airport sprawls. 



**Title: The Tarmac Next Door**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Diana Gilman-Ford doesn’t like to fly. 
She hasn’t been on a plane since the late 
nineteen-nineties, and even then, she didn’t 
make it off the ground. While the plane was still 
on the tarmac, she suffered a panic attack and had 
to disembark. Still, for most of her life, Gilman-
Ford looked up at planes in the sky with awe. 
What a marvel, she used to think. Men in the sky. 
Then, in August 2022, Tweed New Haven 
Airport, located just 50 yards down the street 
from Gilman-Ford’s house, entered into a 
forty-three-year contract with the airport 
management company Avports LLC. The deal 
paved the way for a one-hundred-million-dol-
lar investment in the expansion of the air-
port. A year earlier, in May 2021, the Airport 
Authority had announced a new partnership 
with Avelo Airlines, an ultra-low-cost carrier 
that began offering flights out of New Haven 
in November 2021. 
Now, over twenty Boeing 737 jets take off 
and land each day on the Tweed runway, situ-
ated three miles from downtown New Haven. 
Sometimes the jets move as late as 10:30 p.m. 
Gilman-Ford calls her house, which she has 
lived in for twelve years, a newfound “night-
mare.” She keeps her windows closed to block 
the smell of jet fuel. She stopped hanging the 
clothesline and pruning the garden last year. 
And then there’s the noise. “I don’t even have 
words for the noise,” Gilman-Ford said. “There 
are times it’s so bad you cannot even function.”


“I have great empathy for people who live 
near the airport,” said Matthew Hoey, the First 
Selectman of Guilford and Chair of the Tweed 
Airport Authority Board. Still, he has sup-
ported the airport expansion from the begin-
ning. He worked with Avports and Avelo in 
the initial stages to secure their investments. 
From his perspective, the expansion of Tweed 
is for the common good. “The success of the 
airport has spillover for the region, and for the 
immediate vicinity,” Hoey said. And besides, 
“No one who bought a house didn’t know the 
airport was there.”


Opponents and proponents of the Tweed 
Airport expansion seem to operate in entirely 
different registers. Critics of the airport, 
largely residing within a few miles of Tweed, 
denounce the noise and air pollution, as well 
as increased traffic and safety concerns. Gretl 
Gallicchio, who lives in New Haven near 
the airport, said that she had to “completely 
reevaluate what it means to have a future” in 
her once quiet neighborhood. “It’s depressing,” 
she said, “to watch the place where we’ve lived 
be destroyed.”


Residents of these low-lying, shoreline 
neighborhoods already contend with warming 
and flooding, local consequences of the global 
climate crisis. They are skeptical of the value 
of Tweed’s future LEED-certified, energy-effi-
cient terminal—especially when the aviation 
industry plays a massive role in carbon emis-
sions. Such environmental concerns would be 
compounded by jumbo jets, the traffic, and the 
increased strain on emergency services that 
will come with the expansion.


Proponents of the airport are quick to rec-
ognize these concerns but dismiss them with 
utilitarian logic—more people will benefit from 
Tweed than will be hurt, and thus the expansion 
will be justified. The benefit takes many forms: 
economic growth from jobs in aviation and con-
struction, accessible and affordable travel from 
Avelo’s budget flights, and a potential decrease 
in energy use after construction of the new, 
LEED-certified terminal. 


The one thing everyone can agree upon is 
how enormous and successful the expansion 
of Tweed services has been already, and how 
impactful future changes will likely continue 
to be. Since the first Avelo flight took off from 
New Haven on November 3, 2021, and landed 
in Orlando about two hours later, Avports 
has seen an eleven-fold increase in air traf-
fic at Tweed. In 2020, there were thirty-eight 
thousand enplanements at Tweed. In 2023, 
there were 465,538. According to Tom Rafter, 
Executive Director of the Tweed New Haven 
Airport Authority, Tweed is the second fast-
est-growing airport in the United States. This 
may only be the start. Under Avports’ master 
plan for its lease from the Airport Authority, 
effective until 2065, the company will invest 
one hundred million dollars into Tweed and 
oversee the construction of a new terminal and 
extension of the runway. 


To Hoey, New Haven Mayor Justin Elicker, 
and most other politicians with a stake in the 
fight, the equation is simple. Tweed brings jobs 
and revenue to the region. Private investment 
from Goldman Sachs-owned Avports pays 
for the venture. Government departments 
oversee permits and regulations to ensure that 
construction is up to federal standards. The 
world carries on, the same as it always has, now 
with six additional flights from New Haven 
to Florida every day. But for residents like 
Gilman-Ford, it’s a world changed. The noise 
that disrupts her sleep, the vegetable garden 
and clotheslines she feels she’s lost access to, 
and the black soot she says covers the outside 
of her house are enough signs of the impact. 
“I don’t care what that study says,” she said, 
speaking about federal environmental impact 
reports. “Because we know, we’re living here.”


**Title: From Puddle Jumpers to Regional Hub**
**Page number(s): 18**

For all its rapid growth, Tweed is tiny, 
sitting low down in a large bowl just twelve 
feet above sea level. To get there, drivers exit I-95, 
the main throughway to town, and roll down a 
two-lane road with yellow lines down the middle 
and parking lanes on either side. Only small green 
signs with a white airplane icon and an arrow 
indicate that Tweed is nearby. Single-family 
homes spaced about 15 feet apart with grassy 
lawns line the block. Speed bumps and yard signs 
increase in number closer to the airport: “Keep 
Tweed Small,” they read. On the tarmac, across 
the street and behind the terminal, there’s usually 
at least one purple, white, and yellow Avelo 737 
jet. Morris Creek flows underneath the air traffic 
control tower, underneath the terminal, and down 
the tarmac on the other side.


Tweed Airport is not a new addition to this 
tree-lined New Haven neighborhood. Opened in 
1931 as the New Haven Municipal Airport, it took 
the name Tweed in 1961 from its first manager, 
John H. Tweed. Having purchased the land from 
East Haven in 1931, the City of New Haven fully 
owns the acres that Tweed sits on and leases it to 
the Tweed Airport Authority. The complex also 
crosses into neighboring East Haven, although 
East Haven does not share any financial owner-
ship. Throughout the twentieth century, flight 
offerings shifted as different airlines attempted to 
run routes through New Haven. Due to the short 
length of the runway and small terminal, planes 
were small and flight schedules inconsistent. More 
often than not, passengers chose to fly from New 
York, Hartford, or Westchester instead.


Before 2021, there were not constant 737s at 
Tweed as there are today, which seat up to 120 
passengers; instead, just narrow-bodied airlin-
ers seating about seventy-five people maximum. 
This was due to a 2015 legal battle, where the 
Connecticut government prevented the Airport 
Authority from expanding the length of the 
runway. The move would have allowed for larger 
planes and additional carriers to service Tweed. 
Then, in July 2019, the Second Circuit Court of 
Appeals reversed that decision. 


Rafter, the Executive Director of the 
Airport Authority, keeps a small orange book-
let with the details of the Supreme Court rul-
ing on his desk at his Tweed office. It reminds 
him of past resistance to the airport and the 
avenues through which expansion was still 
able to move forward. 


Rafter, like Hoey, who sits on the board, 
seems unfazed by local opposition to Tweed



**Title: The Tarmac Next Door**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
19
March 2024
expansion. A veteran of the aviation indus-
try, he’s been in similar situations before. “I’ve 
lived at the end of runways, I’ve lived near 
airports,” Rafter said. “I understand their 
concerns.” He says opponents, though vocal, 
are not the only ones with an opinion about 
Tweed. The people who use the airport, who fly 
the Avelo flights, park in the nearby parking 
lot, and work jobs in the terminal, he argues, 
are showing their support for the airport and 
its expansion through their actions. Tweed also 
has its vocal cheerleaders: numerous residents 
of New Haven, East Haven, and surrounding 
towns who post updates on new Avelo routes, 
videos taking off over the Long Island Sound, 
and updates on weather delays. 


Yale students and affiliates alike also fre-
quently fly through Tweed. Camila Young 
’26 has taken over twelve Avelo flights since 
beginning college between New Haven and 
her home in Miami. “I really like Tweed,” she 
said. For Young, the small airport is convenient 
and she finds the people there friendly. “It 
seems kind of like the mom-and-pop version 
of the airport.” 


Most days, Rafter has the tower to himself. 
From up here, he can see the entire expanse 
of Tweed: the houses on Burr Street which sit 
right across from the airport gates; the cars 
loading and unloading in front of the terminal; 
the brook that runs from the parking lot to the 
tower; and the planes as they land, taxi, disem-
bark passengers, and take off again. Above it all 
is the expansive sky, visible for 360 degrees from 
the wrap-around windows in Rafter’s tower.
From up here, Tweed looks beautiful. 
The tarmac is lower than the surrounding 
houses, with orange and red foliage on all 
sides. To the East Haven side of the airport, 
where the new terminal will be built, Rafter 
points out a few commercial buildings and 
the woods he says separates the airport from 
residential areas. “The longest highway in 
the world is a runway,” he says. “There are 
airports around the entire country and they 
are part of a larger system.”


The Environmental Concerns
G
ilman-Ford stands in the parking lot of 
Robinson Aviation on the east side of the ter-
minal, watching the planes. Next to her, the sur-
face of her car, a 2010 Mercury Sable, is covered 
in a thin layer of brown grime which she says is 
from airplane combustion. A yellow “Stop Tweed 
Expansion” sticker is peeling off at the edges. A 
plane took off three minutes ago, and it takes that 
long for the jet fumes to make their way over on 
the wind. 


Both Gilman-Ford and her daughter have 
asthma. She said her daughter’s asthma attacks 
have become more frequent since Avelo arrived. 
In East Haven, more than 21 percent of chil-
dren have asthma compared to just 14 percent 
in New Haven and just 13 percent throughout 
the rest of Connecticut. East Haven is already 
home to several oil storage facilities, power 
plants, and trash collections, not to mention a 
mile-long stretch of I-95. East Haven is also an 
Environmental Justice Community, defined by 
the Connecticut state government as an area 
with high poverty rates where developers must 
have a plan to engage local stakeholders before 
they can seek permits. This is usually done 
through public meetings or comment periods, 
where residents can provide feedback on pro-
posed plans. Because Tweed has been zoned 
as an airport since its inception, and because 
airports fall largely under federal jurisdiction, 
the expansion hasn’t legally required all these 
state-level procedures.


Morris Creek flows under-
neath the air traffic control 
tower, underneath the termi-
nal, and down the tarmac on 
the other side.


--- Page 20 ---

20
TheNewJournal
As a result, some residents have taken 
it upon themselves to assess the environ-
mental and health impacts of Tweed on 
the already-impacted communities. A local 
environmental group called 10,000 Hawks 
partnered with Tufts University researcher 
Neelakshi Hudda to study air pollution around 
Tweed. Residents kept air quality monitors 
in their homes over the course of two weeks. 
Hudda found that ultrafine air pollution parti-
cles increase by 188 percent during plane take-
off and landing, up to half a mile away from 
the airport.


In December 2023, the Federal Aviation 
Authority (FAA) issued a Finding of No 
Significant Impact (FONSI), which concluded 
that Tweed’s expansion would have no signif-
icant impact on the environment. This find-
ing was the result of the FAA Environmental 
Assessment (EA), a routine procedure that 
must be completed for expansion plans to 
move forward. 


“When I heard the news of the FONSI I 
burst into tears and I doubled over on the 
floor,” Gallicchio said. “I was literally that 
shocked. The EA was a complete shocking act of 
greenwashing.” 


Save the Sound, a New Haven-based non-
profit, is currently appealing the Environmental 
Assessment. It cites the numerous state and fed-
eral agencies—including the Environmental 
Protection Agency, the U.S. Department of 
Health and Human Services, and the Connecticut 
Department of Energy and Environmental 
Protection—that, like Gallicchio, have pointed 
out shortcomings in the document. For example, 
ultrafine particle pollution was not considered in 
the FAA’s EA, as these are not federally-regulated 
pollutants. Neither were the impacts of leaded fuel 
used by small, private aircrafts. Wetland impacts 
are also largely left out of the document, which 
states that there are “no critical habitats within the 
project site,” a fact that local residents and Save 
the Sound refute.


According to the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric 
Administration, 
the 
aviation 
industry accounts for 3.5 percent of warming 
worldwide. If the industry were a country, it 
would be the sixth-largest emitter in the world 
as of 2019. Opponents of Tweed see this as a key 
reason to limit the growth of the airport. “This 
is an expansion of an impossibly wet, small, 
foggy airport during an era of climate crisis 
when every responsible policy maker I know 
talks about ways we need to reduce our carbon 
usage and our carbon footprint,” Gallicchio said. 
She said that when she brought up these con-
cerns to Elicker in a July 2022 meeting with him 
and Economic Development Administrator 
Michael Piscitelli, she was quickly dismissed. 
“[Piscitelli] said that global warming is 
a global problem and this is a local issue,” 
Gallicchio said. Piscitelli did not recall this 
conversation and referenced the potential 
local environmental benefits from moving the 
terminal—including higher stormwater stor-
age capacity at the airport. Elicker also con-
tested that this is his administration’s position. 
“[Planes] have jet fuel that is detrimental for 
the climate,” Elicker said. “But that doesn’t 
mean we should never fly anywhere. We can’t 
look at the airport in isolation and there is so 
much we are doing as a city to reduce our cli-
mate impacts.”


The current expansion put forth by 
Avports includes plans for a six-story parking 
garage, a 638-foot runway expansion, a 462,500 
square-foot airplane parking building, and 
the new terminal that will come in at around 
80,000 square feet. Residents and environ-
mental activists alike fear the potential harm 
this construction will have on surrounding 
wetlands, and also the prevalence of flooding. 
Low-lying and coastal East Haven is already a 
flood-prone city, with almost a third of homes 
at severe risk of flooding within the next thirty 
years. The new terminal will be built on stilts 
to protect against future water damage. This is 
still a rare design for airport terminals, but one 
that might become more popular as flood risks 
from climate change increase. 


The Political Quagmire
T
hroughout the three-year expansion 
fight, opponents have complained that 
everyone seems to be paying attention to other 
things, anything but Tweed, including those 
who are tasked to legislate on it. At an April 
2023 meeting of the South Central Regional 
Council of Governments, East Haven Mayor 
Joseph Carfora accused his colleagues of neg-
ligence as they voted to pass a resolution in 
support of the Tweed expansion and the draft 
Environmental Assessment.


“First of all, I want to ask everyone on 
this board,” Carfora said to the assembled 
council. “Has anybody read this EA?” It was 
a hybrid meeting—Elicker called via Zoom 
from his New Haven office. Carfora held up 
a copy of the 216-page draft environmental 
assessment document, spiral bound with a 
plastic cover. “Has anybody took the time 
out to read this?”


Hoey and Elicker responded that they 
had read most of it, but only two other people 
in the adjoined crowd raised their hand, both 
onlookers, not members of the council. “I want 
to ask all of you,” Carfora then said. “How can 
you vote if you don’t know what’s in this?” The 
rest of the members looked on, a few holding 
on to their hands, as Carfora continued to speak, 
growing irate. Carfora cursed, and only then did 


--- Page 21 ---

21
Elicker chime in.“Point of order,” he said. “If we 
could all use appropriate language.” 


Carfora’s motion to table the resolution 
failed with a 5-4 vote. He stood up and, along 
with two staff members, left the meeting. The 
council then voted on the original resolution in 
support of the Tweed expansion and draft envi-
ronmental assessment. It passed unanimously, 
though two members abstained: North Haven 
First Selectman Michael Freda and Woodbridge 
Deputy First Selectwoman Sheila McCreven. 


Although half the airport sits within East 
Haven’s borders, ownership belongs solely to 
New Haven. Legal jurisdiction and regulation 
largely fall on the federal government, as is the 
case with airports around the country. “This is 
lopsided,” Carfora said before he left the April 
2023 meeting. “Every time I look back at this I’m 
getting more information. Everything is twisting 
and turning and it’s all against East Haven.” One 
aspect that East Haven does have a small amount 
of control over is the Tweed Airport Authority 
Board of Directors, a group of fifteen unpaid vol-
unteers appointed to govern the airport. 


Of the Board’s fifteen members, eight are 
appointed by The New Haven Mayor’s Office 
with confirmation from the Board of Alders, 
five are appointed by Carfora of East Haven, 
and two are appointed by the South Central 
Regional Council of Governments (SCRCOG). 
The Board governs Tweed and appoints 
the Executive Director, although since the 
forty-three-year Avports lease was approved, 
its day-to-day responsibilities have shrunk. 
The Authority and the Board do accept noise 
complaints from residents, who also can send 
them directly to the Connecticut Department 
of Energy and Environmental Protection 
through a complaint line. Board meetings are 
also open to the public, and the board reserves 
time for comments and questions from indi-
viduals, but they rarely respond directly to pub-
lic comments. More often than not, individuals 
are referred to the FAQ page on the website.


Don’t Hate the Player
W
hen Carfora walked out of the SCRCOG 
meeting on April 26, 2023, he couldn’t stop 
the council from passing a resolution in support 
of the Tweed expansion and draft environmen-
tal assessment. Ironically, Avports, which leases 
Tweed from the Airport Authority, which leases 
land from the City of New Haven, did not need 
the SCRCOG’s vote of support to proceed with its 
expansion plans. 


As a certified airspace, Tweed is under the 
specific jurisdiction of the federal govern-
ment, specifically the FAA, which regulates the 
American aviation industry. The administra-
tion’s primary duty is to guarantee the safety 
of planes and passengers in the air. To ensure 
this, it manages air traffic control, regulates 
planes and airlines, and issues licenses to pilots. 
The organization’s main goal, as stated on its 
website, is “providing the safest, most efficient 
aerospace industry in the world.”


To this end, the FAA has conducted its 
job admirably in New Haven. Air traffic has 
expanded, becoming more accessible and effi-
cient, and there have been no major safety 
incidents since Avelo arrived at Tweed. But 
although the agency has Environmental 
Programs that ensure airports are up to the 
standard, environmental protection and regu-
lation is not the FAA’s top priority, nor is it a 
part of their stated mission. Yet, the FAA is still 
the only body—municipal, state, or federal—
with the ability to definitively find that there 



**The Tarmac Next Door**
**Author: Meg Buzbee**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Diana Gilman-Ford and her 
daughter live 50 yards down 
the street from Tweed New 
Haven Airport. 

The ground below is far away.  
Gallicchio may be getting ready to leave. 
The neighborhood she loved, where she raised 
her three kids and has lived for twenty-five 
years, has now changed to the point of unrec-
ognition. “I am one of the people with the 
wherewithal to leave,” she said. “The people 
who are going to have to stay here and watch 
their homes and their neighborhood and their 
physical health deteriorate, it’s depressing.”

Gilman-Ford doesn’t have plans to leave 
yet, although she has taken a step back from 
the airport fight. “It’s just consumed me,” she 
said. “It’s consumed my kids. I took the flight 
tracker off my phone,” she said. “I must have 
filed three hundred complaints, I never got one 
response, not one.” She used to take her kids 
walking along the Tweed border on Thompson 
Avenue; she'd point out groundhogs and ducks 
to them along the path. The trees were cleared 
in 2020 as part of a drainage plan, and the ani-
mals never came back. Now that they are gone, 
Gilman-Ford is letting her own garden grow at 
her house one block away. The garden is over-
grown but she doesn’t want to cut down the 
rhododendron bush—rabbits recently moved 
in. “I’m going to be the idiot that leaves all the 
crappy brush on my front yard,” she said. “I 
don’t want to kill the animals.” Above her, in 
the sky, the air boomed as another Avelo 737 
came in for landing.  ∎


Meg Buzbee is a senior in Pierson College 
and a Podcast Editor of The New Journal.


**Tweed New Haven Airport Expansion**
**Author: Not specified**

will be no significant impact from the expan-
sion on the land, waters, and people surround-
ing Tweed.

On September 26, 2023, another fed-
eral department got involved in the dis-
pute. Admiral Rachel Levine, the Assistant 
Secretary for Health in the U.S. Department 
of Health and Human Services issued a letter 
to four FAA officials urging them to conduct 
an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) 
for Tweed’s expansion. In addition to restart-
ing and expanding study into environmental 
and health impacts, the EIS would also neces-
sitate considerably more community input 
and feedback. In the letter, she references 
the environmental and health hazards many 
neighborhoods around Tweed already face, 
notably their high asthma rates. The letter 
was issued in September. Three months later, 
the FAA issued the Environmental Assessment 
and Finding of No Significant Impact, with 
no plans to move forward with an EIS. 
Adam 
Sarvana, 
the 
Communications 
Director for Levine, declined to comment 
on this story. “At this point we’re going to let 
the letter speak for itself,” he said. All Levine 
could do was “strongly recommend the FAA 
conduct further analysis,” as she wrote in her 
letter. The power ultimately landed within the 
internal operations of the FAA. 

East Haven and local nonprofit Save the 
Sound are making one final effort to halt the 
expansion by appealing the decision to the 
federal level. If they win, the decision could 
force an EIS and a much deeper look into the 
potential impacts than the current EA does. 
Still, the changes that have already happened—
the onset of Avelo, the ten flights landing at 
Tweed every day, and the increase in traffic and 
pollution around the airport—do not require 
any additional permission or approval. They 
are here to stay. 

From Rafter’s perspective, these impacts 
are not the only ones to consider. He sees 
Tweed as having an obligation not only to East 
Haven, but also to communities much farther 
away—all along the southern U.S. coast where 
Avelo flies to. That network of the aviation 
economy, connected by runways, planes, and 
corporations that easily cross state lines, relies 
in part on Tweed. On a heavy traffic day, it may 
take twenty or twenty-five minutes to reach 
downtown New Haven from Tweed Airport. 
In that same amount of time, 150 people could 
be halfway to Baltimore, one of the eighteen 
Avelo destinations. These transportation routes, 
as they become more habituated, create a con-
nection between two places, economies, and 
communities that is no longer dependent upon 
physical proximity. In Rafter’s air traffic con-
troller office, it’s easy to feel close to the wide 
sky and the planes crisscrossing it high above. 


**Profile: Home**
**Author: Isabelle Qian**
**Page number(s): 24**

By Isabelle Qian



**Title: Home Truths**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Everything at Chef Jiang seems designed to reflect light. The glossy wooden tables, the seats upholstered in shiny orange vinyl, the oversized oriental vases. Even the plates of food—hot, spicy, and glistening with oil—have become surfaces of refraction.


In one photo from a profile online, Chef Jiang’s owner, Jiang Zhongshan, wears a black chef’s uniform and a white cap, and he drapes his arm commandingly over the side of a chair. In person, however, he is quiet, slow-speaking, and straight-faced—in a black zip-up hoodie and white athletic shoes. He tells me that he spends most of his time thinking about the restaurant, its workers, and its customers. I ask him if he has any funny stories, and he shakes his head. I ask him if he has ever dealt with any bad customers, and he shakes his head again. He does not seem accustomed to talking about himself.


Jiang doesn’t speak English. The first thing the restaurant’s hostess asked me when I called to schedule an interview was if I spoke Chinese. I told her that I did. That is technically true. My Chinese is good, although not as good as it should be—which is to say, not perfect. Throughout my interview with Jiang—conducted entirely in Chinese—I sometimes have to ask him to repeat himself. He does so generously. Because we so often hear about the pressures of the professional kitchen, it is easy to forget that cooking is a skill that takes a lot of forgiveness. Jiang watches as I stop in the middle of a sentence and wave my hands abstractly, searching for a way to rephrase my question. He says nothing, only smiles and waits.


Before Chef Jiang took up residence on 67 Whitney, the building was occupied by Great Wall Restaurant, a Chinese restaurant that closed down in June of 2023, after sixteen years of business. I ate there only once. It was their brunch special: a classic combination of soymilk, congee, and youtiao. I remember the tile floors and the overhead fluorescent lights. Because the restaurant was under renovation, my friends and I ate our congee out of small transparent containers with white plastic spoons.


In comparison, Chef Jiang incarnates a different, shinier version of the Chinese restaurant. “I wanted to have a place that felt modern,” Jiang tells me. Sure, there are still remnants of traditional Chinese restaurant kitsch—the neon OPEN sign in the window, a faint jazz cover of “Don’t Stop Believing” playing over the speakers—but for the most part, the space looks like something that has just been unwrapped from its plastic.


Jiang is as much a businessman as he is a cook. He tells me that every aspect of the restaurant’s physical design was carefully planned and that food is only one part of the dining experience. Jiang understands something about his customers: they value the aesthetics of the thing almost as much as the thing itself. He shows me the restaurant’s Instagram page; one reel showcases shining interiors alongside shots of chow mein, dumplings, and fried rice, all filmed aggressively up close. The video cuts to a shot of orange chicken in time to the beat of Beyoncé’s “MY HOUSE.”


—


Jiang grew up in Hunan, a province known for its spicy cuisine, and comes from a culinary family: his father was a chef, as was his grandfather. He attended culinary school and went on to work at an elite restaurant in Beijing. Hearing that economic possibilities were more plentiful in the U.S., he immigrated alone from China to the East Coast in his thirties. His wife and daughter joined him five years later, while he was working at a small Chinese restaurant in New Jersey.


A couple years ago, Jiang heard about a lease in Farmington and decided to open Chef Jiang’s first location in 2021. Whitney Avenue is his second location, which he selected in part to cater to Yale students. He has his eye on Providence—and Brown University—for his next restaurant.


I ask Jiang about his regrets; he says he has none.


“I’ve never really thought about it. I’ve never asked myself what I would have been if I hadn’t become a chef,” Jiang tells me. “The journey was so hard—really, really difficult—and required sacrifice. Not everyone who opens a restaurant will succeed. If you are lucky enough to have a restaurant, what’s the point in thinking, some fourteen years later, that you wish you hadn’t done it?”


I don’t ask him about sacrifices. When we’re not talking about the restaurant, the conversation ends quickly—perhaps, it seems to me, because he doesn’t have much to say. He briefly mentions his daughter, Lily, who will be graduating high school in the spring. Even though they are no longer separated by the Atlantic Ocean, he doesn’t get much time with her between her schoolwork and his restaurants.


“We aren’t very close,” Jiang tells me.


On the weekends, Lily sometimes takes up shifts as a host and waitress. She is not as shy as her father. “He doesn’t speak to me much,” she says in English, after I ask her about their relationship.


Still, when Jiang stops by to check on us as we chat, Lily turns to smile at him.


“What are you talking about?” he asks us.


Photo of  Chef Jiang, the restaurant in New Haven.


“Not everyone who opens a restaurant will succeed. If you are lucky enough to have a restaurant, what’s the point in thinking, some fourteen years later, that you wish you hadn’t done it?”


“We’re badmouthing you,” she says, laughing, and he places his hand on her shoulder in the specific way that fathers do: fondly and with weight.


When I ask Lily to describe her father, she immediately tells me that he is very serious. When I ask Jiang to describe himself, he thinks for a moment, and then says that he considers himself a kind person. This makes Lily laugh. Nevertheless, I think that I understand what he means. Jiang rises to bring me a mug of tea the second that I sit down to interview him. He insists that I take home some food after every meeting. He tells me that his favorite person to cook for is anyone who enjoys his cooking.


The dish that is most important to Jiang is not on the menu. A stir-fry of tofu and pork is too simple to be served at most restaurants. It’s a nameless food—the sort that people cook at home. My mom makes it; Jiang’s mother made it too. As a child, his family could only afford to eat the dish once a month. They bought the pork from a man who sold meat door to door, carrying it on his back with a wooden pole. Now Jiang tells me that he does not make the dish at home. He can never recreate the flavor.


“It wasn’t that the dish even tasted that good,” Jiang says. “But I was a little kid, and I only ate it once a month.”


Jiang understands that food is situational and taste is temporal. His mother’s tofu dish exists in the past. It is the kind of thing to which he can never quite return.




Photography by ellie park, Illustrations by Sarah Feng


I grew up eating at a lot of Chinese restaurants. These places were usually family-owned. They were almost always carpeted and decorated with fake plants. Some featured aquariums of large fish, and as a child, I was always worried that these fish were the same ones that would end up on the revolving table an hour or so later.


Among my family and our circle of friends, the highest praise that you could give a Chinese restaurant was to say that it was authentic. I considered authenticity the rallying cry against Americanized Chinese food, exemplified in my mind by chow mein and anything else served at Panda Express. It wasn’t even that I disliked Panda Express; in fact, I harbored a secret longing for its orange chicken and honey walnut shrimp. Still, I understood that enjoying “fake” Chinese food was the sign of being a “fake” Chinese person. The most hurtful insult of my childhood was whenever my dad, disappointed at my rejection of delicacies such as chicken feet or pig ears, would sigh and say to me, “I guess you really are an American.”



**Title: Home Truths**
**Author: Isabelle Qian**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I watch Jiang. He says nothing, just 
smiles and chuckles. Everyone else is 
speaking in a language that he does 
not understand.


Articles reviewing Chef Jiang online 
make sure to highlight the restaurant’s 
more exotic dishes: gizzards, frogs, 
stinky tofu. I wonder if the perceived 
abnormality of these foods is meant to 
indicate their authenticity, as though 
the sign of a properly foreign meal is 
that it seems instinctively unappealing 
to the traditional American palate. I 
wonder, also, when Americans started 
caring so much about the legitimacy of 
ethnic food anyways.


Online, I watch a segment of a 
local news station from one month ago. 
In the video, Jiang stands alongside 
his marketing manager and two news 
anchors before four platters of food. “A 
lot of us are getting Chinese food, but 
we’re not getting the real Chinese food,” 
one of the news anchors explains.


That’s the selling point: authentic-
ity. The food is real because the tofu is 
spicy and the fish comes with its head 
still attached. Jiang’s marketing man-
ager tells the anchors that these are 
examples of dishes that Chinese people 
might cook at home, and the anchors 
marvel at how different this food is 
from the Chinese food that they had 
always known. Throughout the video, 
Jiang tells me that he adjusts 
his cooking to be more accessible 
for American customers. In addition 
to lowering spice levels, he has also 
included in his menu a section devoted 
to Americanized Chinese food sta-
ples like General Tso’s chicken and 
Mongolian Beef. Most American cus-
tomers, he reasons, will first come to 
Chef Jiang for these familiar dishes. But 
when they come back, they might try 
something more adventurous, and then 
they’ll keep coming back to try new 
things, and they’ll bring their friends 
along, and this is the slow process of 
teaching Americans what Chinese food 
really is, so that someday, maybe Jiang 
won’t need to put General Tso’s chicken 
on his menu.


In the meantime, though, he tells 
me that he isn’t particularly bothered by 
questions of authenticity.
“I just want people to eat here,” he says.
—


In Chinese, when you call some-
thing authentic, you say that it is 
dìdào. The word itself is constructed 
of two characters, one meaning “land,” 
the other “road.” This makes me think 
about how the concept of authentic 
cuisine never would have existed if 
people hadn’t traveled so far away from 
their own native lands. The original 
use of the term, dating back to the 
Ming dynasty, was actually as praise 
for products of a certain locale. Since 
then, however, dìdào has taken on 
an additional meaning: that which is 
tangible or real. To me, there is some-
thing that feels so Chinese about this—
the idea that truth must be intimately 
tied to home. 


I eat dinner at Chef Jiang twice in 
the span of two weeks. The first time, 
I wait half an hour on a busy Saturday 
night to get a table with two friends, 
neither of whom are Chinese. We order 
scallion pancakes, chow fun, stir-fried 
lamb, bean sprouts, and Dan Dan noo-
dles. As we eat, I find myself informing 
them that this is the good stuff, the real 
deal of Chinese cuisine. By the end of 
the meal, we are exhausted—both from 
eating and from talking about how 
excellent the food is.


My second dinner at Chef Jiang is 
during the Lunar New Year, upon the 
invitation of a family friend—a Chinese 
professor at Yale. She is from Shanghai 
and is probably the best cook I know. I 
ask her how she recognizes when a dish 
is authentic or not. “I only really know 
if I’ve had it before,” she says, which I 
understand as her graceful way of tell-
ing me that my question is a poor one.


In the middle of dinner, I take a 
quick trip to the bathroom. In one cor-
ner, there is a palm-like plant in a dark 
blue ceramic pot. I reach down to press 
my fingers against the roots. I feel the 
smoothness of the plant and the soft-
ness of the dirt. It’s real.


After our first interview, Jiang 
insists that I bring some food back to 
my dorm. From the menu, I select the 
wontons in chili oil, which he packs up 
for me in a black plastic container. 
If you want to know the truth, I 
have no idea if the food at Chef Jiang 
is authentic or not. I haven’t been back 
to China in close to ten years. When 
I go out for dinner with my non-Chi-
nese friends and try to explain whether 
the scallion pancakes are real or unreal, 
it’s an exercise in bullshit, the indul-
gence in a feeling of expertise that I 
can claim and others cannot. This is 
one of the pleasures of tribalism—the 
ethnic secret, the esoteric knowl-
edge, the self-aggrandizing idea that 
my taste buds actually do have some 
instinct for truth.


We never even made scallion pan-
cakes at my house. Instead, we bought 
them frozen from the Chinese grocery 
store and heated them with slices of 
cheddar cheese melted blasphemously 
on top.


But when I sit on my couch and 
eat Jiang’s wontons, I remember mak-
ing wontons at my kitchen table, and 
also the restaurant back at home where 
my mom used to order this same dish 
for me after school. I think about how 
these wontons taste like something 
familiar. And how, when we say that 
food is authentic, what we mean is that 
it tastes like something we have tasted 
before. That’s all it really is. Just the 
commonplace longing for something 
that you already know.
“Exactly,” Jiang says, when I try to 
explain all this to him at the end of our 
last interview. He nods at me, as though 
in approval. “Authenticity is just what 
we say about something that makes us 
think of home.” ∎

Isabelle Qian is a senior in 
Pierson College.


**Title: That Summer**
**Author: Lucy TonThat**
**Page number(s): 29**

…that summer and the swollen pregnant heat, when Isa 
and I would walk around the house in our underwear and 
spend our water bill in the cavities of those hard plastic ice 
trays, that summer when I had two jobs and there was no 
poetry left in me by sundown, that summer when we’d keep 
the windows cracked open and every Saturday the dirt bikers 
would roar down the road and rattle all of our mismatched 
kitchenware, that summer I let seashells collect on the bath-
room window, that summer I broke the wheels of my parents’ 
best suitcase bringing thirty-five books back to the library, 
that summer I waited for you to drive up to me on the week-
ends, that summer I started a fire by the lake and all of my 
clothes smelled like smoke and clean tobacco, that summer 
the man started following me, that summer the shape of my 
body changed, remember that one?


**Title: Name it to a God**
**Author: Madeline Art**
**Page number(s): 30**

I went to the service because I 
wanted to sing hymns. My soph-
omore fall had been a warm one. I 
spent it reading into texts from a girl 
I wanted to be with, drinking purple 
gin and minty tea, and not thinking 
about any higher power. I hadn’t been 
to church since I declared my atheism 
at 13. But then it was December. I was 
alone, and the afternoons were dark. I 
wanted music that sounded like light.


I dragged my friend Lucy to the 
Christmas service on campus. We sat 
on the balcony. Below us, poinsettias 
lined every aisle and window sill. Their 
symmetry pulled the music into a new 
sphere; the air seemed to purr. Before 
“Silent Night,” we watched the light 
unfurl candle by candle, each congre-
gant passing their flame to the next. I 
let wax drip onto my fingertips. We 
pretended not to notice the shake in 
each other’s voices.


After the service, we ate takeout and 
Lucy read me a poem by Ada Limón:
And I think of that walk in the valley where
J said, You don’t believe in God? And I said,
No. I believe in this connection we all have
to nature, to each other, to the universe.
And she said, Yeah, God.


We pasted this into a document 
and named it “religion.” Today it is 
thirty-nine pages long, filled with prose 
and poems written by women we love. 
We add a piece of writing if it makes 
us feel this connection we all have: to 
nature, to each other, to the universe.


I grew up in a small country church, 
sharing hymnals and communion grape 
juice with adults who had been sitting in 
the same pew since childhood. Maybe, as 
we sang together, they were connected—
to nature, each other, the universe. I 
certainly was not. Church taught me to 
remember grown-ups’ names, to speak 
in front of a crowd, to bake muffins for 
coffee hour. But I understood religion 
as something to memorize. I learned 
the Lord’s Prayer as soon as I could read, 
because a cross-stitched reproduction 
was the only thing hanging on the oat-
meal-colored walls, and my eyes longed 
for an interesting place to rest. Each 
spring, at the end of the Sunday school 
year, we recited the titles of the books of 
the Bible before the congregation. I still 
remember the groupings of syllables, but 
I can’t keep track of the order of the clus-
ters. Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes. Joshua 
Judges Ruth. They didn’t mean anything to 
me then; they don’t mean anything to me 
now. Just sounds for my wandering mind 
to chew.


But the scriptures Lucy and I have 
compiled don’t feel like syllables to mem-
orize—not the hollow words of the Lord’s 
Prayer or the repeated books of the Bible. 
Every entry rips my stomach open. 


In March, Lucy and I went to Paris, 
to feel grown up. I dragged her to 
the Sainte-Chapelle to see the stained 
glass. We marched up the shadowy spi-
ral staircase, heaving closer and closer to 
the heavenly glow. But the sky was too 
cloudy. The glass did not glow. We tried 
to parse out the Bible stories told across 
the windows—maybe that, there, could 
be a crucifix?—but we could not orient 
ourselves. We spotted one woman in all 
of the thousands of window panes. I told 
Lucy that the space still felt sacred, but I 
was mostly trying to convince myself.


In the Musée D’Orsay, we looked 
for Berthe Morisot’s oil paintings—she’s 
our favorite. We turned a corner, and our 
breath caught in our throats. In the frame, 
a blonde girl placed flowers into the hair 
of her brunette friend sitting in front of 
her. It was called L’Hortensia and neither 
of us had seen it before. We did not speak. 
We did not need to say aloud that we 
were looking at a picture of us—that we 
were seeing, through Berthe’s paintbrush, 
the tenderness of our friendship. Sacred.


I lived near a Cape Cod beach for 
forty days when I was 19. Every after-
noon, I stood in front of the water and 
waited for the ocean to make me feel 
small, to lull me into a sense of con-
nection to the earth. Every afternoon, I 
thought about the people who had stood 
in front of this same water and felt the 
same smallness, the same connection. 
She believes in the Virgin the way I believe in the mountain,
though in one case the fog never lifts.
But each person stores his hope in a different place.
– Louise Glück

layout by lily lin



**Title: Name it to a God**
**Author: Madeline Art**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
31
TheNewJournal          March 2024
Name it to a God
19-year-old girls in fifteenth-century 
Spain, across the ocean, staring back—
every afternoon, I felt connected to them.
Two years later, at 21, I spent a month 
in France with twelve other students who 
wanted to write. We were living in a town 
called Auvillar. Pilgrims walking the 
Camino de Santiago pass through this 
town on their way to northwestern Spain. 
When they reach the coast and look out 
toward the Atlantic, they face, almost 
directly, where I stood on Cape Cod.
Église Saint-Pierre hosts a church 
service each night for anyone passing 
through Auvillar. I joined on a Wednesday, 
taking a moment away from trying to nail 
to the page places and people and purring 
air. The priest blesses the pilgrims, giving 
them strength for their next day of walk-
ing. How many have come before them, 
dirty feet on this same weathered ground? 
How many have walked, and walked, and 
walked, have given their body over to 
aching hips and raw skin to serve some-
thing greater? How many have doubted 
themselves and their God in the heat of 
midday? And then: how many have sat 
in these pews, where I sat one Wednesday 
in July, and had a priest tell them to keep 
walking, to keep going, that they are doing 
the right thing? That bodily relief—reas-
surance flooding out pain—that, I think, 
could feel like God.

When I stand in a church, I do not 
feel God. I do not feel a Father, or a 
Son, or a Holy Spirit. I feel the people 
who have stood there before me and 
looked for something beyond them-
selves. Who took meaning and comfort 
from these walls, and from the words 
and the music—and maybe from the 
God—that echoed in the vaulted mar-
ble ceilings. I am not interested in the 
Bible—until I think about the peo-
ple who have turned to it for answers. 
These people: their existence moves 
me. It moves me to stand in this place 
where they stood, to read these words 
that they read, to let go of my body as 
they let go of theirs.

I have always been too sensitive, Ada 
Limon writes in a different poem. A 
weeper from a long line of weepers.

I
n Charlotte Brontë’s Villette, Lucy 
Snowe—fiercely Protestant—falls into 
a depression and stops eating. She con-
fesses to a Catholic priest and then has a 
religious breakdown on the steps outside 
the church. Every time I read the scene, I 
wonder if she collapsed from low blood 
sugar. Feel it in the body, name it to a god.

did think that I felt God one time 
in my childhood church. Our choir 
director, Sue, and her son had not spo-
ken in many years. The son was com-
ing for Christmas to mend things and 
to watch our yearly pageant. But there 
was a snowstorm, and his travel was dis-
rupted, and he was stuck in New York. 
No public transportation could get him 
to town before Mary gave birth.

So a deacon named Don drove through 
the snow, three hours each way, to pick him 
up. In the middle of the pageant, when a 
little lamb was singing, the door exploded 
open. The music stopped. Every head in 
the room turned to the door, and then to 
Sue. She looked at her son, smiled, and kept 
conducting. And we all kept singing—faces 
a little brighter, eyes a little damper.

And maybe it was God. But now, all 
that I can remember is Don’s virtue, and 
Sue’s music, and the relief of a lot of people 
who wanted good things for each other. ∎
Madeline Art is a junior in 
Trumbull College.
Illustration by cate roser



**Title: Writing in the Margins**
**Author: Chloe Nguyen**
**Page number(s): 32**

32
TheNewJournal
Writing in the 
Margins
Connecticut became the first state to mandate an ethnic studies 
elective in high schools. How are New Haven teachers and students 
navigating the curriculum?
By Chloe Nguyen
layout design BY ALICIA GAN
Photography BY ELLIE PARK and chloe nguyen




**Title: Writing in the Margins**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
It’s last period, and students in Ryan Borowski’s “African American/Black and Puerto Rican/Latino Studies” stir with anticipation: not of dismissal, but of their in-class assignment. Students have eyes locked on their notes instead of the clock. One high schooler motions to open the conversation. Borowski reminds the delegates to shake hands out of respect for debate and for differences of opinion.
“Terrorism is an unlawful use of violence against civilians,” the student begins. For fifty minutes, a classroom of nineteen high school juniors and seniors debate the legacies of abolitionists John Brown and Nat Turner. Each team huddles around their respective table, where they hurriedly jot notes to argue whether the men should be remembered as martyrs or terrorists.
“Maybe violence was the only answer they had,” one student ventures from the four speakers’ chairs, clustered in the classroom center. “They admitted to murdering people who might not have had a place in this,” another student rebuts, “Martin Luther King [protested] peacefully…there were better ways to do this.” 
Between designated speaking times, delegates deliberate these violent rebellions with their peers. “Was it inevitable?” “Was it just?” Through the thicket of conversation, I hear mentions of the Emancipation Proclamation, Al-Qaeda, and congressional hearings. The upperclassmen’s arguments pull from a vast bank of historical knowledge.

When College Street car horns start blaring, the students peer out the window to investigate the commotion. Borowski quickly pulls the room back to focus. “I have no clue what goes on in downtown New Haven,” he says, “We can only control what goes on in here.”

Students in Borowski’s classroom.

Borowski moves the conversation into modern terms, comparing the violence perpetrated against Planned Parenthood centers to the violence perpetrated by Nat Turner and John Brown. “[Are] those people in modern times that use violence at Planned Parenthood places…justified in their actions because they are also acting on behalf of what they think is right?”

Five years ago, this debate would likely not have occurred in a Connecticut high school classroom. Borowski has been teaching the state-mandated ethnic studies class at the Cooperative Arts & Humanities Magnet High School (Co-Op) in New Haven since 2021. The elective is composed mostly of juniors and seniors who are interested in learning about Black and Latino histories. A 2019 bill made Connecticut the first state in the country to mandate the inclusion of ethnic studies electives in its high school curriculum. Classes like Borowski’s are available to high school students across the state.

The same year Connecticut piloted the country’s first state-mandated offering of a Black and Latino studies elective, ten states—particularly in the Midwest and the South—passed censorship bills to ban “divisive” discussions of institutionalized racism and Critical Race Theory in both K-12 and college classrooms. Americans have long been conflicted on how to teach race and history in classrooms. These most recent debates follow a long lineage of “culture war” rallying cries on topics ranging from religious education, sexual education, LGBTQ+ rights, and racism that often play out in schools. Educational initiatives that question Eurocentrism, cultural relativity, and the democratic principles of the founding fathers have sparked backlash from outspoken critics (in 2019, The New York Times’ “1619 Project,” which asserted that America began when the first enslaved Africans arrived, was countered by “The 1776 Project,” a conservative retelling of history since America’s founding). The fixation from all parties reveals that schools are more than just spaces to transmit knowledge; classrooms can be battlegrounds for defining America.

Including Borowski, I spoke with four New Haven Public School teachers, a dozen of their students, and an additional nine advocates about the passage of a bill that has the potential to set a precedent for public education in America.


On june 21, 2019, governor Ned Lamont approved the incorporation of  “Black and Latino Studies” in the Connecticut public school curriculum with the passage of Public Act No. 19-12. The bill received strong support across parties, with a vote of 122-24 in the Connecticut House of Representatives


Borowski attributed the bill’s near-unanimous endorsement to Connecticut’s strong Democratic-leaning demographics: “I think [our] side of politics is not afraid to learn true American history, and other states are.” 

Though the act passed with little resistance, it took advocacy from students, teachers, and parents to push the issue to the legislature and ensure its efficacy.

Benie N’Sumbu, a 2019 graduate of Co-Op, testified in front of the Education Committee to support an earlier iteration of the bill in the spring of her senior year. On behalf of Students for Educational Justice, a youth-led advocacy group based in New Haven, N’Sumbu expressed concern about how Black history was taught in school: “Just a few years ago, people were talking about how slavery was a choice and how they didn’t fight back, which is so not true.” She hoped the course would introduce an “untaught history” to schools, with lessons that could challenge biases in conventional curricula through active student engagement, not simply “fact regurgitation.” 

N’Sumbu’s sentiments were affirmed by the results of a 2020 survey conducted by the curriculum’s Advisory Group: a third of Connecticut high school students polled were interested in acquiring “a deeper understanding of inequalities and understanding of racism as a social construct.” According to survey results, students were particularly interested in learning the “real” history. 

From 2019 to 2021, the State Education Resource Center (SERC) partnered with the Connecticut State Department of Education to develop a curriculum for the new course. SERC members said they hoped to create a program that would set a new precedent for learning, deviating from a Eurocentric framing of Columbus’s New World landing and European colonization as the start of American, African, and Latin American history. 

During the program’s development, rising instances of police brutality and subsequent protests made systemic racism more visible and Critical Race Theory a popular debate in mainstream media. In Connecticut, right-leaning politicians and parents rallying against the program weaponized misconstruals of Critical Race Theory against educators who were attempting to elucidate race, racism, and identity in K-12 classrooms, particularly in wealthier suburbs. In Easton, residents put up anti-CRT signs, and in Guilford, nearly five hundred people petitioned to ban social-justice indoctrination in their public schools. Schools even struggled to run the course because of a lack of student interest, having to offer half-year iterations to improve enrollment.

The State Board of Education approved the final course, “African American/Black and Puerto Rican/Latino Studies,” on December 2, 2020. The curriculum was not approved solely to cover racism—N’Sumbu and her co-organizers at SEJ were concerned that a class with “Race” in its title would not pass statewide. But consultants at SERC told me they had every intention of creating a new type of class to address the history of racism in the U.S. 

The course intends for students to work intimately with the material. Most of the assessments are journal- or discussion-based, culminating in classroom essays and debates. Only twice does SERC’s curriculum mention the word “quiz,” and never “exam.” Paquita Jarman-Smith, the SERC Consultant responsible for the African American/Black studies portion of the curriculum, said that she and her colleagues prioritized activity-based learning to engage students beyond memorizing facts. The curriculum also outlines a semesterly class project, where students collaborate with other school departments, like Art, Music, and English Language Arts, to creatively present their imaginings of justice based on the year’s teachings.

Starting in the 2021 to 2022 academic year, school districts across the state of Connecticut were invited to teach the pilot program. The year-long course was divided into two semesters. The first chronologically taught African American and Black history, from ancient African kingdoms to the Jim Crow era to the modern Black Lives Matter movement. The second centered a thematic focus on Puerto Rican identity, a demographic that represents 74 percent of the Hispanic population of Connecticut, and Latino Studies, touching on Indigenous erasure by Spanish colonizers, U.S. colonialism, and the diversity of Latino identity. In the fall of 2022, all Connecticut high schools were required to include the elective in their offerings.

The developers of the course expressed their pride in this achievement, saying, “Each day we are just enamored with this.” When asked about the feedback they received on the program, Jarman-Smith, Diaz, and their colleagues at SERC agreed, “All students should have this course.” 

Photo courtesy of Christy Olezeskiw



**Title: Writing in the Margins**
**Author: Chloe Nguyen**
**Page number(s): 37-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Student organizers, serc, and their Advisory 
Group felt that pushing for all schools to require 
the course would have placed excessive pressure on 
its broader school districts. This is especially true in 
light of Connecticut’s recent amendments to high 
school graduation requirements, where students 
need to obtain twenty-five credits instead of twenty 
credits to graduate. Legislators and organizers hesi-
tated to impose further changes on schools.


With the course ultimately being an elective, 
however, the educators I spoke with were concerned 
that not all students can make room to take it. 
“Electives compete with other classes for stu-
dents,” said Ben Scudder, who teaches the course at 
High School in the Community. “Students are pick-
ing between this and P.E. or art.” 
Moreover, they voiced concerns that it would 
self-select students with prior interest instead of 
those who already felt disconnected from the mate-
rial. Throughout the New Haven school district, 89 
percent of students identify as non-white, with 48.1 
percent of all students identifying as Hispanic or 
Latino and another 35 percent identifying as Black or 
African American.


Jessie Piper, who teaches the class at Metro 
Business Academy, noted varying levels of interest 
in the course. Piper told me not all students in her 
class take it on their own accord; some are placed by 
guidance counselors for scheduling purposes. “I’m 
worried that the people who don’t care will weigh 
down the people who do care,” she said. Moreover, 
the class was designed to be inclusive to students of 
all learning levels, so some students with less prior 
knowledge might have to learn the material at a 
faster pace than others. 
Still, each of the four classrooms I visited had 
students who attested to the value of the course.


Borowski’s junior students at Co-Op affirmed 
the class’s in-depth nature. Farida I., one student, 
spoke on the curriculum’s ability to transform chal-
lenging topics into accessible ones. “It’s a mix of 
jokes,” Farida said. “Then we get into the serious stuff, 
then we cool down and discuss.”


Drew S., a sophomore in Piper’s class at Metro, 
found the second-semester curriculum especially 
rewarding. Growing up Black in the South, she had 
accumulated a knowledge of Black American history 
but had received less exposure to Latino culture. She 
cited the Mexico-U.S. border system, Christianity’s 
diffusion throughout Latin America, and the tenu-
ous relationship between Puerto Rico and the U.S. 
as crucial facts the course had taught her. 
But Drew also expressed confusion on why 
this cultural history course was separated from 
the core U.S. History curriculum. “It’s kinda 
ridiculous that we even have to have this class 
when this history is literally American history,” 
she said. “Why is this not just a part of the reg-
ular history curriculum? It’s like they’re othering 
[people of color]. It’s like ‘This is the history, and 
there’s no room for you.’”


I  
visited A’Lexus Williams’s classroom at Hill 
Regional Career High School the same day I vis-
ited Borowski’s classroom: February 1, coincidentally 
the first day of Black History Month.


That day, Williams had created a presentation 
for the last unit of the first semester, “Protest, Politics, 
and Power (1965-Present).” It included songs like 
Sam Cooke’s “Change is Gonna Come” and Marvin 
Gaye’s “What’s Goin’ On,” and a 1964 speech by 
Martin Luther King Jr. 
Williams weaved through every corner of her 
large classroom to address her eleven students. She 
moderated the discussion closely, but many of her 
students were excited to jump in.


Williams, who is Black, confidently projected 
to her class of entirely Black and brown students. 
On the whiteboard, she defined the word radical 
and said: “The audaciousness for Black people, free 
and enslaved, to call for the abolishment of a sys-
tem that had been sustained for hundreds of years 
was considered radical.”


Wesley R., a senior in Williams’s class, felt the 
class was more freeing than the fast-paced STEM lec-
tures he was used to. “Our ideas just come out, and 
we talk based on what a peer might say,” he said. “In 
other classes, we’re quiet unless a teacher picks on us.”


Later that same day, Borowski and his stu-
dents conducted their final debate of the semester, 
projected in front of the room: “Were John Brown 
and Nat Turner American martyrs/heroes or ter-
rorists?” Through laughter and earnest deliberation, 
Borowski’s students all participated in the assign-
ment with uniform engagement and enthusiasm.


On the same day, following the same state 
guidelines, Williams and Borowski taught two dif-
ferent classes in two different styles. 
“We offer and guide [Connecticut schools] to 
follow the course and follow [its] fidelity,” SERC’s 
Jarman-Smith told me. “But school districts have to 
make it theirs.”


A few years prior to teaching this course put 
forth by SERC, Borowski and his colleagues had been 
asked by Co-Op principal Paul Camarco to develop 
and teach a class on African American and Black 
history. Borowski developed the course, which he 
recalled teaching from 2017 until 2021, by asking his 
students what they envisioned. The result empha-
sized modern figures and events, a practice that he 
has carried into implementing SERC’s program. 
“[Students’] personal experiences tend to relate 
more to current events and injustices,” Borowski said, 
“police brutality, mass incarceration, war on drugs…” 
Straying from the statewide curriculum, 
Borowski asks his students to research examples 
of modern-day slavery or the stories of unheralded 
Americans like queer activist Marsha P. Johnson. 
He wants his students to discover what makes 
them curious, and what makes them uncomfort-
able: “If you give students meaningful choice 
[over] what they learn, they’re more likely to take 
ownership of their learning.” 


--- Page 38 ---

This style seemed to resonate with some of his 
students. “[The content] is not just facts and dates, 
which don’t connect with me easily,” Juliet S., a 
senior in Borowski’s class, said. “We talk about the 
mistakes of the past.”


This standardized curriculum can look so differ-
ent between two schools in part because following 
SERC’s program in its entirety can be overly ambi-
tious for educators.


“The curriculum is so dense [and] pacing in the 
curriculum underestimates certain lessons,” Williams 
said. Scudder and Piper agreed that it is infeasible to 
cover all the content in one year.


As a consequence, teachers have assumed the lib-
erty to modify lesson plans according to their educa-
tional interests and understanding of their students’ 
learning paces. “I’m looking at it as a course that 
opens a lot of opportunities,” Scudder said. “It’s not 
beholden to anything; there’s no AP exam at the end.”


The class looks different everywhere. Teachers 
facilitating the course throughout New Haven pub-
lic schools don’t communicate directly—when asked 
if they knew anyone else who taught the course, the 
teachers I spoke to struggled to come up with a name 
from any of New Haven’s nine public high schools. 
According to Williams, the history departments 
across the schools meet once a month for only an 
hour. There is no set time for the African American/
Black and Puerto Rican/Latino studies teachers to 
meet. As a result, the program can vary in content, 
pacing, and methodology from county to county, 
school to school, classroom to classroom. 
Despite this lack of inter-district communication 
and consistency, Williams noted a shared experience 
among teachers in the district. “We’re definitely on 
the same page on how dense [the program] is, but 
we have to do what is in the best interest of who is 
in front of us.”


Public Act No. 19-12 does not mandate an 
additional certification for teachers to instruct 
the course—any high school social studies teacher 
can teach it. But in its public digital copy of the 
curriculum, SERC publishes hyperlinks to databases, 
articles, and activity lesson plans. It also hosts a sum-
mer institute, quarterly trainings, and an end-of-year 
showcase to prepare teachers and track progress.


Williams opted to attend a professional develop-
ment seminar hosted by the Anti-Racist Teaching 
& Learning Collective (ARTLC). The initiative is 
a collaboration between Yale professor Daniel 
HoSang; Students for Educational Justice; Hearing 
Youth Voices, a youth activism group based in New 
London; and local educators. Members of ARTLC 
had expressed a wide array of concerns about the 
bill: that it would mandate an inflexible curriculum 
that would “displace existing teacher-developed 
courses,” fail to prepare teachers, employ ineffec-
tive and impersonal methodology, and silo African 
American and Latino Studies with each semester’s 
structure. ARTLC offers solutions in their anti-bias 
and anti-racist oriented teaching guides, lesson 
plans, webinars, and in-person seminars for those 
teaching the course.


Williams acknowledged how ARTLC’s resources 
help empower teachers to feel comfortable having 
the difficult conversations that emerge from course 
questions. “Having that [professional development] 
allowed my white colleagues to think it is okay to 
maybe say the wrong thing,” Williams said. “Now 
they know how to move forward. We’re not gonna 
get into that white defensiveness.”


Scudder and Piper also mentioned finding 
these resources through colleagues and friends who 
were already involved in ARTLC. Similarly, Borowski 
expressed taking additional steps to learn beyond 
the scope of SERC’s recommended training, such as 
researching books to include in his lessons, like Dear 
Martin by Nic Stone and The House on Mango Street 
by Sandra Cisneros. 
“Training is like ‘Let’s go through the curricu-
lum in a week,’” said Scudder. He said the difficulty 
of the topics is not matched by the quality of train-
ing, which largely reiterates SERC’s publicly available 
material. To him, this cannot sufficiently compensate 
for every background discrepancy. “I didn’t major in 
Black or Latino history,” he said. “I majored in politi-
cal science…There needs to be a greater discussion of 
what this class will look like.” 


The deeply personal themes of the course, 
paired with varied implementation and levels 
of training, mean that student experience depends 
more than usual on who is teaching and how.  
While 89 percent of the students in New Haven 
Public Schools are non-white, only 28 percent of 
teachers are non-white. Williams was the only non-
white teacher I spoke with.


This discrepancy is no anomaly in the history of 
New Haven Public Schools. N’Sumbu said she never 
had a Black teacher in her time at Co-Op. Drew 
added that the students are aware of this disparity: 
“Especially with the history that we know between 
white people and Black and brown people, it feels 
questionable at times to have a majority Black and 
brown school and basically, all the staff be white.”


This divide is not lost on the history and social 
studies teachers of New Haven. Borowski said that for 
his class’s first discussion, he wrote a question on the 
board: “How do you feel about having a white teacher 
teach this class?” While he received a mixture of posi-
tive, neutral, and negative responses, Borowski took the 
opportunity to hear his students and, together, negoti-
ate best practices for learning heavy content.


Juliet, who is Persian and one of the few stu-
dents in Borowski’s classroom to not identify as 
Black or Latino, told me, “Borowski makes it very 
clear that we all have a voice here.”


Piper had also welcomed the subject into her 
classroom. “You’re white and why are you teaching 
this class?” she tells me her stu-
dents have asked. She says she 
responds: “It’s history, and you 
don’t have to personally live his-
tory to talk about it.”


One of Piper’s senior stu-
dents, Alysian M., said she’s 
glad that Piper is the one to 
teach the course. Alysian iden-
tifies as a biracial trans lesbian, 
or, as she puts it: “a lot of dif-
ferent identities hodgepodge 
together.” Alysian sees her own 
history in the course, in discus-
sions of struggle ranging from 
African American history to 
the Haitian Revolution.


“Learning 
about 
[slavery] 
makes me feel closer to history 
and people around the world and 
struggling with an oppressor,” 
she says. “Despite race, national-
ity, gender, and sexuality, every-
one has had somebody who’s 
bullied them…Overcoming that 
oppression, that’s what attracts 
me to the course.”


As students learn, the teach-
ers in front of them consider their 
own roles. 
“I’m trying to think of myself 
as less [of] a teacher and more as 
a facilitator of discussion,” said 
Scudder, whose sentiments were 
shared by the other white teach-
ers I spoke with who are teaching 
the course.


Williams, who is one of two 
women of color in her seven-per-
son department, believed that that 
attitude might distill classroom 
discussion. “The white teach-
ers who are teaching this course 
probably are worried about saying 
the wrong thing or don’t know 
how to have these conversations 
about race,” she said. “They don’t 
want to upset their students or 
perpetuate something.” 
Wesley noted how that representation was 
important to him and his classmates: “[Williams] is 
someone who has felt disparities…since she looks 
like us, we feel like what we’re being taught is more 
personal in that way.”


But regardless of background or identity, 
Williams acknowledged that everyone has some-
thing to learn from the course. “I’m the first to 
tell my students that just because I am Black does 
not mean I know everything about Black history 
because we are not monolithic,” she said. “There 
are things that I’m learning and unlearning and 
considering other perspectives as we go through 
this together.”


Williams recalled an unexpected learning 
experience for her in her classroom. One day, she 
presented a recent court case to her class regard-
ing a Black student who was suspended by his 
Texas high school for refusing to cut his hair. She 
intended for the case study to demonstrate the 
future of Black excellence and beauty, incorpo-
rating the idea from previous units of race as a 
construct. In response, one of Williams’ students 
asked whether or not he would cut his hair when 
he entered the workforce. Williams was surprised 
how susceptible her students were to messaging 
around “what is proper, what is presentable, who 
gets to decide.” 
For Williams and her students, her devi-
ation from the original lesson plan became an 
opportunity to illustrate how the course’s signif-
icance transcended arbitrary facts and grades. In 
Williams’s classroom, the course served to bridge 
the sometimes wide divide between the student 
and the individual.


Though teachers had various interpretations 
of the course, they shared recognition of its value.


Borowski described this class as an oppor-
tunity to promote interest in educational careers, 
saying, “We want to push more of our students 
to become teachers.” Borowski highlighted the 
importance of representative curricula and teach-
ing, considering he is positioned as a white edu-
cator in a predominantly non-white community. 
“This course can be a unifier if done correctly.”


While Williams had apprehensions about 
having a “real” history course being situated out-
side of the popular U.S. History curriculum, she 
approved of what was available. “If they’re not 
going to completely rewrite and review the U.S. 
History curriculum,” she said, “then yes, this 
course does do well to stand alone.”


To Williams, though the course itself leaves 
room for improvement, it represents something 
invaluable. “I think this course in particular hope-
fully allows students to connect to not just content 
in a more authentic way but really see we’ve all 
contributed something to make this nation what 
it is. There’s good and bad and ugly everywhere, 
but there’s so much value in being able to explore 
these things together.”


“The mere existence of this sends a message,” 
Williams said, “that it is important, that it matters, 
that it is U.S. History.” Connecticut’s students 
and teachers are the proof.  ∎
		

Chloe Nguyen is a sophomore in 	
		

Saybrook College and an Associate 
Editor of The New Journal.

**Title: Tax Break**
**Author: Ai-Li Hollander**
**Page number(s): 40-42**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On a cold February afternoon, 
ten people scatter among identi-
cal rows of chairs in the basement 
of the New Haven Free Public Library 
(NHFPL). Between the patterned surfaces, 
diffusely lit by the overhead fluorescents, 
the room hums with noise. It is an hour 
and a half before the opening day of the 
Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) 
site, which operates as a branch of the 
Internal Revenue Service’s national VITA 
program. Here, at Connecticut’s largest 
VITA site, Yale students run the operation. 

Thirty minutes before the site offi-
cially opens, Yale student volunteers 
wander in. With widened eyes, they scan 
the waiting area for their fellow students, 


now full of clients. Last year, the site 
brought more than $2 million back to 
New Haven and helped more than a 
thousand people file for free. 

While helping taxpayers avoid costly 
tax preparation fees, VITA sites also aim 
to increase access to tax credits like the 
Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) and 
Child Tax Credit (CTC). These credits are 
part of the complicated web of programs 
that define the United States’ social wel-
fare system. However, claiming them is 
difficult for those without a professional 
accountant or online tax preparation 
services. Out of the one hundred and 
forty eight million individual tax returns 
filed in 2020, only a little more than four 
million were filed for free. Without the 
time or energy to parse through the 
code by hand, the most economically 
disadvantaged people—including those 
who do not speak English—bear this 
bureaucratic and administrative bur-
den the most. As a result, these social 
benefits often do not reach those who 
need it. Many New Haveners stand to 
benefit tremendously from the money 
these credits put back in their pockets. 
According to Census data, 21 percent of 
New Haven residents live under the fed-
eral poverty line. 

Every year, around 20 to 25 percent 
of Connecticut residents eligible for the 
EITC do not claim it, according to IRS 
estimates. Additionally, an estimated 
two-thirds of those who miss out on 
significant EITC returns nationwide are 
those who choose not to file because 
they are below the income threshold that 
requires them to submit a tax return. In 
Connecticut, the average EITC return 
was $2,294 for the 2022 tax year, a signif-
icant boost for taxpayers. Reporting by 
Annie Lowrey in The Atlantic argues that 
these tax credits mirror a larger trend in 
social welfare: benefits are shrouded in 
a sprawling, dysfunctional, and complex 
web of programs that obscures access for 
those who need them the most. People 
who do attempt to claim these bene-
fits face time-consuming bureaucracies, 
invasions of privacy, and the stigma that 
surrounds social welfare.   

VITA serves as a strange band-aid 
to these gaps, tasking volunteers with 
the intimate business of interacting 
with clients one-on-one and handling 
their Social Security cards, government 
IDs, and financial documents. On Yale’s 
site, the impersonal bureaucratic system 
becomes personal, at once highlighting 
the people behind the tax code and the 
barriers to access of the current system. 

When I spoke to John DeStefano 
Jr., Mayor of New Haven from 1994 
to 2014, he framed the VITA program as 
a matter of civic duty, for both the vol-
unteer and the taxpayer. Volunteers give 
back to their neighbors “in a very tradi-
tional social contract sort of way,” while 
taxpayers contribute through their tax 
dollars. DeStefano emphasized that 
this definition of citizenship includes 
undocumented people, who can pay 
taxes through the acquisition of a Tax 
ID number and utilize VITA sites to help 
them file.

When I asked DeStefano about the 
barriers people face to filing taxes, he 
remarked, “I think that some things are 
complicated,” acknowledging that lan-
guage differences can exacerbate these 
challenges. However, he equated fil-
ing taxes to getting your driver’s license 
or passing a driver’s test. “I really don’t 
think that’s too big of a burden to expect 
of people,” DeStefano said. 

VITA leadership repeatedly told me 
that a significant challenge they face in 
providing effective service is language 
barriers. According to Census data, 20 
percent of people speak Spanish in New 
Haven, including those who may be 
bilingual. Co-President Wendy Zhang 
’25 acknowledged difficulties in recruit-
ing enough Spanish-speaking preparers, 
challenging VITA’s ability to provide 
the accessible services they aspire to. 

The Yale student volunteers and clients 
were separated by another dynamic: 
race. Census data estimates that 30 per-
cent of New Haven residents identify as 
Black or African American, compared 
to 7 percent of non-international stu-
dents at Yale. 

Historically, government social safety 
net programs have excluded Black 
Americans, through both explicit and 
implicit means. This form of structural 
racism has hindered Black people from 
building generational wealth. Despite 
this historical context, Black Americans 
are pigeonholed into harmful stereo-
types like the “Welfare Queen,” popu-
larized by President Ronald Reagan in 
the nineteen-seventies, that depict them 
as the primary beneficiaries of social 
welfare, leeching off of hard-working 
taxpayers. These racist characterizations 
rest on the American ideal of “pulling 
yourself up by your bootstraps,” sham-
ing those who access social benefits like 
tax credits.

Outside of the U.S., an esti-
mated 
thirty-six 
countries—includ-
ing Singapore, the U.K., Germany, and 
Japan—utilize an alternative return-free 
filing system. The government pre-fills 
information about an individual’s income 
into an online portal, prompting the user 
to confirm or amend the information. 
On the taxpayer’s end, this takes minutes, 
compared to the nine hours the average 
American taxpayer spends filing their 
taxes every year—according to IRS esti-
mates. Since the U.S. government already 
receives information about an individual’s 
income through their employers, it could 
follow those countries’ leads in instituting 
an easy filing system, which would reach 
an estimated 41 percent of the population. 
This would also eliminate the need for 
many to visit VITA sites or pay for private 
tax preparation services. 

Since Reagan, president after pres-
ident has repeatedly pushed for similar 
reforms. But the tax preparation indus-
try, which stands to profit tremendously 
from a complicated and inaccessible tax 
system, has intensely lobbied against 
such reforms. In 2003, a coalition of tax 
prep companies, including the leading 
company Intuit, entered an agreement 
with the IRS in which the government 
agency agreed to stop providing its 
own online free file system. In exchange, 
tax preparation companies themselves 
operated IRS Free File services in part-
nership with the IRS. These programs 
make online tax preparation available 
to income-qualified taxpayers, about 60 
percent of the population at the time. 

But in practice, these private compa-
nies deliberately obscured access to Free 
File portals and deceivingly labeled paid 
services as “free.” In 2021, Intuit pulled 
out of IRS Free File and in 2022, only 2 
percent of people eligible for Free File 
took advantage of the program. This year, 
the IRS is piloting its own online tax 
preparation software through the Direct 
File program in twelve states, excluding 
Connecticut. 

Currently, Yale’s VITA program is 
not pushing political advocacy for tax 
reforms. When I brought up the idea 
to VITA Co-President Joanna Wypasek 
’24, she speculated that they might be 
able to implement advocacy in the 
next fall semester. 

“[B]eing from Yale is not a badge 
of honor in that situation,” Rena Liu 
’26, a second-year advanced preparer 
said, acknowledging the trust required 
between tax filer and student. Joining 
out of an interest in contributing to New 
Haven, Liu shared that her extracur-
riculars at Yale felt mostly self-serving 
before the spring semester of her first 
year when she joined VITA. 

Many in the city, includ-
ing organizations like New 
Haven Rising, argue that 
Yale does not pay its fair 
share in New Haven due to 
its exemption from prop-
erty taxes because of its 
non-profit status. Although 
Yale has pledged to volun-
tarily contribute $135 mil-
lion over the next six years 
and contributes through 
other initiatives like New 
Haven Promise, the city 
still misses out on $100 
million a year. “I feel like 
almost being at VITA was 
kind of like a small way in 
which I could be like, ‘I’m 
really sorry that I am bene-
fitting massively from a sys-
tem that hurt you,’” Liu said. 

I 
sat down with Tom 
Costa, a librarian at the 
NHFPL who has worked with 
Yale students on VITA for 
roughly twenty years. Earlier, 
I had wandered around the 
library, observing the exten-
sive resources housed in the 
building: shared computers, 
a café, a teen center, and a 
“Tinker Lab.” Speaking in a slow, mea-
sured cadence, Costa explained that the 
library’s wide array of offerings are in 
service of the library’s mission “to be an 
actual community center.” Among these 
programs is VITA, hosted in the basement 
next to a popular teen center and a social 
work office.

“The city sees this as a very import-
ant program,” Costa said, emphasiz-
ing the continual support of the New 
Haven Mayor’s office through events 
like an annual kickoff. “[B]ecause these 
funds are coming back in sizable refund 
amounts to the individuals, to the fami-
lies, and they spend it in the community, 
thereby boosting small businesses.” 

Although around fifteen VITA sites 
operate in New Haven, Costa said the 
downtown NHFPL VITA location is the 
largest in the state of Connecticut, 
regularly completing the most returns 
per year. 

The downtown NHFPL site disaffil-
iated from Yale over the pandemic due 
to university restrictions on in-person 
operations. However, all of NHFPL’s VITA 
volunteers are Yale students, both under-
graduate and graduate. The job demands 
a high level of responsibility and pro-
fessionalism from its leadership—other 
VITA sites often run out of established 
non-profits, like United Way. Student 
leaders draw from a deep well of insti-
tutional knowledge, working with an 
extensive list of partnering organizations 
to make the site function: the NHFPL, 
Connecticut Association for Human 
Service, Yale Hunger & Homelessness 
Action Project, and the IRS. 

Costa outlined the evolution of 
the program from its inception in New 
Haven in the early two-thousands to the 
present. The site grew steadily in pub-
licity and capacity throughout cycles of 
Yale student leaders. The COVID-19 pan-
demic challenged the program, but it has 
since rebounded, with ninety-eight cur-
rently active volunteers. The volunteers 
I spoke to were motivated to give back



**Title: Tax Break**
**Author: Ai-Li Hollander**
**Page number(s): 43-44**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
to their communities, choosing VITA 
because of its ability to make a tangible 
difference in other’s lives.
“The money that people are getting 
back makes a huge impact,” Co-President 
Zhang shared. 
VITA sends emails to its volunteers 
every day the site operates, Monday 
through Saturday, for about nine weeks 
until Tax Day on April 15. Each email 
includes a red number—the amount of 
money that taxpayers owed that day—
and a green number, which is always sig-
nificantly larger and denotes the amount 
of money that was returned to clients.
VITA volunteers strive to express 
sensitivity, respect, and understand-
ing, especially when a client finds out 
they owe money or that their return 
is not as sizable as they had expected. 
Zhang recalled instances when she had 
to explain to people why their returns 
were smaller than they expected, espe-
cially after pandemic-era expansions 
of the Child Tax Credit expired. This 
thoughtfulness seemed attuned 
to navigating the vulnerabil-
ity required of clients and the 
responsibility given to volun-
teers on the VITA site.
Every VITA program abides 
by the IRS prescribed structure. 
Clients fill out an intake sheet, 
bringing their Social Security 
card, an official form of iden-
tification, and all relevant tax 
documents to the site. The VITA 
volunteer reviews these mate-
rials, inputting data into the 
online tax preparation system 
“TaxSlayer,” which automatically 
calculates the return. Before 
submission, each return is dou-


ble-checked by a different vol-
unteer. Filing is often simple, as 
volunteers are limited in scope 
and unauthorized to prepare for 
taxpayers with specific, compli-
cated situations. But volunteers 
still need to know the right 
questions to ask. For example, 
if a volunteer misidentifies the 
filing status of an individual 
as “single,” instead of “head of 
household,” the taxpayer may 
miss out on certain benefits. 
Volunteers must understand the 
basics of tax law and be prepared 
to explain returns to clients. 
The Volunteer Standards 
of Conduct Agreement, signed 
by all VITA volunteers, reminds 
volunteers that “fraudulent returns that 
report incorrect income, credits, or 
deductions can result in many years of 
interaction with the IRS as the taxpayer 
tries to pay the additional tax plus 
interest and penalties. ” 


Training Volunteers
O
ver the previous fall semester, 
I watched the five training video 
modules ranging from twenty min-
utes to an hour that Yale student VITA 
leaders created, touching on the fun-
damentals of tax law. 
In January, I walked into a lec-
ture hall for VITA’s “Certification 
Party,” a gathering to pass the IRS’s 
official certification exams. Although 
the exam is taken individually online, 
organizers talked through exam ques-
tions in groups, eventually giving each 
volunteer the correct answers and 
officially qualifying all participants 
to volunteer on an IRS VITA site. The 
exam guidelines instruct volunteers 
to take the test individually, noting 
that “taking the test in groups or 
with outside assistance is a disservice 
to the customers you volunteered to 
help.”  However, three out of four of 
the VITA sites I have interacted with 
approach the test similarly, in groups 
with correct answers eventually pro-
vided to all volunteers.
Computers out, we gathered in 
groups 
according 
to 
certification 
levels, which ranged from “Intake 
Coordinator” to “Basic Preparer” to 
“Advanced Preparer.” A veteran VITA 
volunteer, one of the site coordina-
tors, prompted individuals from my 
group to read the exam questions 
aloud while soliciting answers from the 
group. I strained to hear amongst the 
echo of the tall, domed ceiling, hushed 
voices, and the hum of other groups’ 
discussions. We breezed through the 
exam. When tougher questions made 
the group pause, some students opted 
to switch tabs on their computers to 
Publication 4012, the official Volunteer 
Resource Guide. While they searched 
for official guidance as a volunteer 
would be expected to do on a VITA site, 
others sat quietly and waited to be told 
the correct answer.
When I asked Theo Schiminovich 
’25, a new volunteer with VITA, about his 
level of confidence going into his first 
session, he paused, choosing his words 
carefully. “I feel like I’m gonna need to 
work up to it,” he said. “I’m in the stage 
right now where I don’t really know what 
it’s going to look like, so I have this void 
in my mind.” 
Before preparing returns inde-
pendently, new volunteers shadow expe-
rienced ones. Co-President Wypasek 
described the steps after shadowing as 
“a gentle push towards doing it on your 
own.” She added, “we try to also give 
them the tools so that if they’re stuck, 
they know what to do next.” Volunteers 
can search the IRS website or the offi-
cial Volunteer Resource Guide, ask 
fellow volunteers questions, and check 
in with their IRS point of contact. In 
daily emails, leaders share lessons 
learned and keep a running document 
of common questions. As new volun-
teers build their confidence on the job, 
capacity is limited early on in the tax 
season. Wypasek alluded to this bottle-
neck, warning, “the first week might be 
very very hectic.”


Waiting On Site
n the first day of VITA’s operation, 
I stood next to Andrea Santiago-Tito 
SOM ’24. We met in the waiting room; she 
has used VITA for six years.
“I come here every year because I 
don’t trust going to other companies and 
other environments,” Santiago-Tito said. 
“I feel the Yale students, we have this trust 
where, they know what they’re doing.”
On the NHFPL flier, the down-
town branch is listed plainly among 
other NHFPL VITA locations and does 
not advertise its affiliation with Yale 
students. Sitting among the clients, I 
noticed how the students seemed like 
the youngest people on site, with their 
stickered laptops and backpacks.
Santiago-Tito and I watched the 
waiting area fill up the middle of the 
library basement. Earlier, I had wit-
nessed a public argument between a pair 
of clients who were worried about what 
order they would be seen in. The library 
staff and security guards, milling around 
in reflective layers, diffused the conflict. 
“I’m not in a rush to just be first, as 
long as I get it done,” Santiago-Tito 
said. I turned my head to the rustling 
of coats in the waiting area as people 
stood. Santiago-Tito bolted, securing a 
space in the rapidly forming line. 
Santiago-Tito was number nine-
teen among twenty-two taxpayers who 
were taken that day. VITA volunteers 
are not allowed to stay after the library 
closes, so they preemptively limit the 
number of clients they will see in a 
day. When I asked Costa, the librar-
ian, about the walk-in format of the 
site, he explained that a format blended 
between appointments and walk-ins 
functioned less efficiently, as appoint-
ments were often missed, leav-
ing volunteers with nothing to 
do. Costa told me that volun-
teers averaged twenty-eight 
to thirty-three people every 
three-and-a-half-hour session.
On the last day of the site’s 
first week, I returned to the 
waiting area and sat down next 
to Clevetta, an older woman 
bundled in her winter coat, hat, 
and gloves. She told me that 
she had attempted to come 
the day before but had been 
turned away. This time, one of 
the library security guards was 
tasked with handing out num-
bered index cards to denote 
those who would make the cut 
for a session. 
“It’s comparable to H&R 
Block, in my book.” Clevetta 
remarked. “They’re always thor-
ough, always helpful, always 
introducing themselves, and 
very knowledgeable.”
I asked her whether she 
had faced long wait times 
before. As we spoke, others 
who were waiting began to notice that 
the index cards had been given out of 
order, confusing who was to be seen 
first. Clevetta responded, “No, I’ve been 
lucky I suppose, or blessed that when 
I come it’s...” she paused. “This is the 
first time I’ve seen this many people.” I 
chalked the chaos up to first week grow-
ing pains. Another woman sat down 
next to us, joining the conversation. In 
hushed voices, they exchanged stories of 
the ways companies like H&R Block and 
Jackson Hewitt had taken their money, 
tax season after tax season. 
Four hours later, I returned from 
class to the library and was surprised to 
see familiar faces, including Clevetta, 
rearranged into different configurations 
around the room. The Yale students, 
meanwhile, were transitioning to their 
third personnel shift of the day. I sat down 
next to a pair of women talking, playfully 
analyzing the volunteers’ actions. I asked 
them about how long they had been 
waiting. One responded, “they take their 
time, that’s why it takes so long and that’s 
why people get frustrated and get aggra-
vated, but they gonna make sure they do 
it right.” Between those who were wait-
ing, a friendly camaraderie formed. Small 
conversation and laughter emerged often, 
disrupting the long stretches of waiting 
that characterized the site. 
I stood to leave again, wishing them 
good luck. One man tried to get me to 
stay and wait for my taxes to be complete. 
“They’ll get them done for you,” he insisted. 
I smiled, explaining that I was a student, 
writing a story about the site. “I knew 
you had that student look about you” he 
quipped. I chuckled, waving goodbye. 
When I returned to the VITA site 
for a third time during its second week 
of operation, the waiting chairs were 
already filled. All twenty-one numbered 
index cards had been passed out accord-
ing to arrival time. The site would not be 
accepting anyone new that day. As the 
clients stood, I watched them arrange 
themselves into a neat line between the 
stanchions. I wondered if it was like this 
all tax season: demand high, the atmo-
sphere thick with waiting, and the site at 
full capacity. ∎



**Title: The Old Acre**
**Author: Lucy Hodgman**
**Page number(s): 45**

Endnote
T
he first time i go to the Yale Farm, 
I am reminded of Marie Antoinette 
and Le Hameau de la Reine, the 
ornamental village she built outside 
Versailles. She would put on her best peas-
ant dress and wander between the dove-
cote and the dairy, where it is said (alas, 
apocryphally) that she enjoyed milking 
goats adorned with ribbons. This is not an 
exact analogy for the farm, but it’s pretty 
close, I think, locking my bike to a lamp-
post. Yale students, too, sometimes stray 
from their castles to spend an afternoon 
picking vegetables they did not plant. 
The farm is about a mile from the 
center of Yale’s campus, past the man-
sions on Hillhouse Avenue and the old 
laboratories on Prospect Street. It occu-
pies almost an acre of university grounds, 
tightly planted with rows of vegetables 
and herbs. The farm has no buildings, 
just a wooden pavilion that protects its 
red-brick pizza oven and picnic tables 
from the elements. 
Property Manager Jeremy Oldfield 
waves from his riding mower as I cut 
uphill toward the middle of the farm. 
I wave back and wait for him under 
the pavilion. We’re several days into 
a scorching September heatwave, but 
it’s not yet 10 a.m. and the farm is still 
cool and dewy. The last of the late sum-
mer light pours out onto the apple trees, 
the rows of squash and corn, the ragged 
bed of wildflowers that separates the 
farm from the street. Up here, if the sky 
is right, you can see all the way to the 
Long Island Sound. 
“This is an interesting hillside we’re 
sitting on,” Jeremy says. Before it was 
a farm, the land belonged to William 
Whitman Farnam, a member of the 
Yale Corporation who lived at the top 
of the hill. When Farnam died in 1929, 
his widow promised their estate to Yale 
on the condition that the university 
wouldn’t build on the land, devoting 
it instead to the study of plants. The 
hillside was largely ignored until 2000, 
when a band of students called “Food 
from the Earth” began lobbying to turn 
it into a farm. Their cause was taken up 
by Alice Waters—a Yale parent and the 
grand dame of California’s farm-to-ta-
ble scene—who talked then-university 
president Richard Levin into the idea. 
Students broke ground on the farm in 
the spring of 2003, nicknaming it the 
Old Acre. 
“The myth was that the students 
came under the cover of darkness 
with chainsaws,” Jeremy tells me. 
“Everything needs a nice, dramatic cre-
ation myth.” Jeremy is 41, with sandy 
hair and a big laugh. He spent years 
farming in Maine and California, but 
the Yale Farm is unlike any he’s worked 
at before. Most of its crops are selected 
not for their ability to feed a family 
or turn a profit, but because they’re 
“narratively interesting,” he says. Last 
year, Jeremy and his student employ-
ees planted a field illustrating several 
centuries of grain evolution; this year, 
they’re growing indigo for an art class 
studying the history of dye production. 
It’s the farm’s capacity for story-
telling that interests student manager 
Calista Washburn ’24. I meet her on a 
golden evening after one of the farm’s 
weekly open workdays. We sit in the 
grass under an apple tree, watching fat 
white hens peck inside a coop a few 
yards away. When a group of soph-
omores comes over to ask if they’re 
allowed to pick the apples, she gently 
tells them that no, the farm is saving 
them for a Russian literature class read-
ing a play with an extended fruit-pick-
ing metaphor, but they’re welcome to 
any that have already fallen. 
“There’s hilarious impracticalities 
here,” Calista says, laughing as she tells 
me about how much time students on 
the farm spend hand-weeding the veg-
etables and about the week they used 
tiny scythes to harvest wheat. “It totally 
changed the way I understood history 
and technology and feeding people.”
Here, she explains, there are no 
boundaries between the dirt of the real 
world and the ideas taught down the 
hill. There are also no physical boundar-
ies between the farm and the rest of Yale, 
no locked gates or requirements for entry. 
This is why Calista has recently become 
so concerned about the deer, who have 
been grazing on the farm’s sweet potato 
plants in droves since the beginning of 
the summer. A commercial farm might 
shoot the deer or scare them off with 
deafening sound alarms, but neither of 
these are feasible options on a college 
campus. The Yale Farm has discussed 



**The Old Acre**
**Author: Lucy Hodgman**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
keeping the deer out with an 8-foot fence, 
the kind of barrier that it has intention-
ally resisted for its twenty years of exis-
tence. Jeremy tells me a fence could go 
up as early as this spring, but there is still 
no definite plan in place. 


The two other student farm manag-
ers I speak to both independently bring 
up the dilemma with the deer. “It’s this 
crisis moment,” one of them, Natalie 
Smink ’24, tells me emphatically. But 
when I talk to Jeremy about it, he doesn’t 
seem too concerned. The students will 
find a way to protect the sweet pota-
toes, and if that means building a fence 
around the farm, then they’ll find new 
ways of inviting people in. This is one of 
the farm’s true purposes, he tells me: to 
provide students who are used to study-
ing ideas in the abstract with tangible 
problems to solve. 


“You’ll go through a bed of carrots 
that is wild and wooly with three differ-
ent types of weeds, and by the end of the 
workday it is legibly a carrot bed,” Jeremy 
says. “You find students kind of lingering 
there, in front of this living physical testa-
ment of the work that they just did.”


And even after only a few hours on 
the farm, I believe him. Because per-
haps this is what all of us, even Marie 
Antoinette, are doing: searching in the 
dirt for something that feels alive and 
real and good. ∎	 	
	
Lucy Hodgman is a senior in 
Grace Hopper College.
Illustration by Angela huo


**About The New Journal**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 47**

The New Journal was founded in 1967, under the following mission statement: “This university has once again reached that stage in 
history when people are talking about the New Yale, presumably to be distinguished from the Old Yale, which in its own day was 
presumably considered new. Wishing to share in this modernity, we have chosen The New Journal as the name for our publication. 
Besides, things seemed slow around here.”
Today, The New Journal is published five times during the academic year by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. One thousand copies of each 
issue are distributed free to members of the Yale and New Haven community. The New Journal is printed by TCI 
Press, Seekonk, Massachusetts; bookkeeping and billing services are provided by Colman Bookkeeping of New 
Haven. Office Address: P.O. Box 3311, New Haven, CT 06515.
While this magazine is published by Yale College students, Yale University is not responsible for its con-
tents. All contents Copyright ©2024 by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction 
either in whole or in part without written permission of the publisher and editors in chief is prohibited. 
Recycle Icon from Flaticon.com.
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS (FEBRUARY) PUZZLE


PLAY MORE TNJ 
CROSSWORDS ON 
OUR WEBSITE!
P
L
E
A
S
 
R
C
Y
 
T
H
I
 
M
G
Z
N

ACROSS
	
1	 Men's underwear, for 
short
	
5	 Lariat
	 10	 Knocks
	 14	 The right to possession 
of a property belonging 
to someone else, 
until their debt is 
discharged.
	 15	 Even a little
	 16	 Toward the side facing 
away from wind
	 17	 Used to
	 19	 UK art institution 
comprised of four 
galleries
	 20	 *Element of this 
puzzle’s title where one 
might hit the “Rock to 
Fakie”*
	 21	 Frightened
	 23	 Ostinatos
	 24	 Build
	 25	 Elephant-headed 
Hindu deity
	 27	 *Element of this 
puzzle’s theme where 
one might hit an “Ollie”*
	 28	 Matured
	 29	 Block: Fr.
	 31	 Ushered
	 32	 Bootlicker
	 34	 Weighted avg. of 
various caesium 
clocks
	 37	 Hide
	 38	 Seventeenth-century 
Dutch Huguenot from 
sourthern Africa
	 39	 *Element of this 
one might “Nose 
Grab”*
	 42	 Without fault
	 45	 Sap-feeding bug 
found on conifers
	 46	 Haggard
	 47	 Humble
	 48	 *Element of this 
one might “Grind”*
	 51	 Fine, in Scotland
	 52	 Enterprise
	 54	 Incan sun-god
	 55	 New recruit, maybe
	 56	 Enthusiasm
	 57	 Sugary finales?
	 58	 Tableau
	 59	 Specialized coding 
languages like HTML
	
DOWN
	
1	 Used thrice, a 
replacement fo rother 
words that would 
communicate little
	
2	 Benefice
	 3	 Went downhill
	 4	 Extinguished
	
5	 Fairly delayed
	 6	 Above
	
7	 “Ditto”
	 8	 Autoimmune disease 
in whcih the immune 
system attacks it own 
tissue, abbr. 
	 9	 Pabst's “Chicago’s 
Beer”
	 10	 Rapid succession of 
knocking sounds. 
	 11	 Elizabethan 
call-to-arms
	 12	 First Emperor of Russia
	 13	 Preliminarily ranked
	 18	 Sunscreen data
	 22	 Christmastime hymn
	 24	 Halves
	 25	 Unit of meas. for milk
	 26	 Humiliated
	 30	 Suffix signifying relation 
or composition
	 32	 Tokens
	 33	 “War without 
bloodshed,” per Mao 
Zedong
	 34	 They might become 
ingrown, if cut too short
	 35	 Summertime
	 36	 Org. responsible for VITA
	 37	 The Chronicles of 
Narnia author
	 38	 Revealed
	 39	 Change: Sp.
	40	 Decorates
	 41	 Having the 
characteristics of a foot
	 43	 Inflame
	 44	 Zilch
	 48	 Conceal
	 49	 Ancient Egypt’s divine 
disc
	 50	 A way to see something
	 53	 Drug administered for 
paracetamol  overdose 
and to loosen thick 
mucus, included on the 
WHO's list of essential 
medicines. 

Skate Park
Puzzle by Adam Winograd
© The New Journal
March 2024

