Publication date: 10/84
Volume 17, Issue 2

**Republican Challenge**
**Author: Anne Applebaum**
**Page number(s): 12**

TNJ: In 1982, you lost an election to 
Bruce Morrison. Now, two years later, 
do you feel that your positions have 
changed enough to give you a chance of 
defeating him? 

LD: In 1982, I supported policies which 
were challenged by Bruce Morrison. 
He said the economy was a disaster and 
going to get worse, and the reverse was 
true. his views haven't changed, and 
neither have mine. The economy has 
changed, dramatically. I believe that 
my support for the main lines of the 
President's economic recovery progtam 
restraining federal spending and the 
reduction of the regulatory burden on 
businesses and individuals have en-
couraged an economic growth which is 
the marvel of the world. I think we can 
continue that economic growth into the 
eighties if we continue to pursue policies 
with a freer market approach. So in the 
campaign of 1984, I am campaigning 
on my support, my very active support, 
of a program that worked. 

TNJ: In your first and second cam-
paigns you were perceived, correctly or 
not, as a more moderate Republican 
candidate. Do you think that your posi-
tion in the party has changed? 

LD: I'm still a moderate Republican 
who supports fiscal conservatism, but 
who, on a whole range of environmen-
tal, social, civil rights and women's 
issues, can quite comfortably be regard-
ed as a moderate, if not a liberal can-
didate. 

TNJ: How closely are your policies 
aligned to Ronald Reagan's? 

LD : I don't think that's a relevant ques-
tion 
support the Reagan 
economic policy, but I have a record as 
a five-term state senator preceding 
Reagan's presidency, and I stand on 
that legacy. I will continue to believe 
and act on those impulses regardless of 
who is president. 

TNJ: Who is your constituency now? 

LD: Well, in 1980, of the 16 towns in 
the Third Congressional District, 14 
towns voted for me; I lost only New 
Haven and West Haven. In 1982 I car-
ried 13 towns, losing New Haven, West 
Haven and add to that East Haven. I 
think that my constituency is virtually 
every town around except New Haven, 
and I expect to carry all 15. I will lose 
New Haven, but I hope to keep that loss 
at a respectable margin. 

TNJ: Why will you lose New Haven? 

LD : Because New Haven is over-
whelmingly Democratic. There's vir-
tually no Republican Party. Those 
members who are left struggle valiantly, 
but haven't won any significant local or 
state office in two decades. 

TNJ: 
You mention the economic 
recovery. Bruce Morrison claims that 
the current economic recovery is a 
fluke, generated by the huge deficit. 
What do you think of this claim? 

LD: I think it's patently ridiculous. 
Bruce Morrison has been consistently 
wrong on economic issues. His under-
standing of economics is pitiful. He has 
not yet been able to demonstrate that 
one thing he has predicted has come to 
pass. I am very confident that we are in 
a new economic era, in which we are 
encouraging investment, savings and 
economic growth. It is clear that in the 
first half of 1984 the economy grew by 
an impressive 7. 7 percent. We haven't 
had figures like that in years. 

TNJ: What do you propose to do about 
the deficit which many believe helped 
cause the recession in the first place? 

LD: Well, I propose to tackle the 
spending side of the federal budget. My 
own view is that the deficit today is a 
product of spending over the last 22 
years at a rate far in excess of revenues. 
.During that same period we have con-
tinued to build new spending programs, 
new agencies and new demands into the 
"Bruce Morrison has been consistently 
wrong on economic issues. H is under-
standing of economics is pitiful." 
budget; meanwhile, Congress has not 
been willing to increase taxes. But our 
tax level at this point is about as high as 
I would like to see us go, because taxes 
are simply money withdrawn from the 
private sector, and when we take out 
this money we impair ou r opportunity 
to form capital and regenerate and ex-
pand our economy. So I think it is ter-
ribly important that we keep taxation at 
its present level and try to trim spend-
ing. 

TNJ: What exactly would you cut? 

LD: I think at this point that the entire 
federal budget across the board, domes-
tic and defense spending, needs to be 
restrained. And again I'm talking not so 
much about cutting as keeping the rate 
of growth at a lo~er percentage increase 
than has been the habit of the last two 
decades. Where we have increased 
spending at the rate of 10 ~ percent per 
annum, we should cut increases to 5 
percent or less across the bo~. 

One of the ways we could do that is to 
take seriously the Grace Commission 
Report, which made nearly 2500 rec-
ommendations about how we could 
save money by improving manage-
ment, by streamlining the federal 
bureaucracy and by improving the 
operations of tlte federal government. 
The Grace Commission recommended 
that over $400 billion. could be saved. 
Now I realize that m;ny of these pro-
posals may be politically impractical, 
and consequently I think that only a 
portion of this $400 billion can be 
saved. What is needed to bring the 
deficit under control is nothing more 
than the political will to restrain the 
relentless pressure from interest groups 
for increased government services. 

Another step might be to give the 
president the line-item veto, the capaci-
ty to veto particular items in the budget, 
a power incidentally which 43 ou t of 50 
governors have, although it was denied 
the president. I also think that the presi-
dent should have limited impoundment 
power restored to him. These things 
taken together can substantially hdp 
our ability to control runaway budgets 
and put us on the right track.