Publication date: 11/99
Volume 32, Issue 3

**Title:  A Peace Activist's Jail Sentence**
**Author: Jada Yuan**
**Page number(s): 8, 9**

JULY 2, 1999, WAS A TYPICAL first Friday for Philip Colville. He led a prayer meeting at 9 A.M., distributed fruit and vegetables at the Caesar Jerez Catholic until 12:30 PM, and drove from New Haven to Hartford in time for the 3:30 vigil outside the office of Senator Joseph Lieberman. After reading aloud from a leaflet entitled, "Either Jesus is a liar, or war is never necessary," Colville and 12 of his friends gathered in a circle and held hands to gain strength for the action they believed had become necessary. They then chose four from their ranks to enter the building at One State Street. Colville was one of the four. 
"We went there with a deep sense of urgency, knowing that we had a right and an obligation to be there--knowing what we know," Colville said at his trial on November 4. He was charged with the routine first-degree criminal trespass anyone might get for kneeling in the hallway outside the Senator's private office and praying for him to stop u.s. bombings and sanctions on Iraq. Now Colville and two of the men who entered that hallway with him, Brian Kavanagh and Cal Robertson, are serving 30-day jail sentences that began on Wednesday, November 10. The fourth, Hillel Arnold, avoided jail time because it was his first offense. 
Colville's three children don't mind having their father in jail-they get to travel from place to place and stay with different people when visiting him. But for Colville and his wife, Luz, the prospect is considerably less attractive. He's been down this road before. Three years ago, on Ash Wednesday, Colville was arrested for what non-violent protesters term a "plowshares action." The name comes from Isaiah 2:4: " ... they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning-hooks: nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war anymore." Taking his cue from the prophet, Colville boarded the USS Sullivans nuclear submarine in Maine, carrying a household hammer on which his children had painted the words, "Love thy enemies" and "Thou shalt not kill." Along with five other protesters he then pounded the missile hatches with his hammer and poured his own blood on the deck of the ship in a symbolic attempt to "turn a weapon of destruction into a tool for life." The protest, one of 60 or 70 performed in the u.s. since 1980, brought him a 13-month sentence from a federal court. He was released on parole three weeks short of a year. If his parole officer chooses to cite him for this latest violation, Colville will face another nine months in a federal penitentiary. 
Why would Colville, a Catholic Worker House resident who has dedicated his life to working with the poor in New Haven's Hill neighborhood, undertake an action that might separate him from his family and his community for so long? What were the issues posed such "imminent harm" that Colville felt compelled to act? Why did they target Senator Lieberman. do the demands of the "Lieberman Four" -as Arnold jokingly calls them-have to do with the rest of us? The answers, Colville tells me, are all connected to his general activism against violence and the military-industrial complex. Plowshares actions and sanctions protests, he says, are just the beginning of a larger fight for "fundamental institutional and social change" toward a peaceful society. And for Colville, who sees violence every day on the streets of his neighborhood and knows about atrocities in Iraq from Luz's many relief trips, that fight begins at home. His opponents: a "hypocritical" senator who supports war while opposing violence in television and movies; and the national defense industry--one of the biggest revenue producers in the state of Connecticut. 


MENTION THE "BIG THREE" of the Connecticut defense industry and you'll hear rousing support and the catch-phrase, "Connecticut is a winner," from nearly every congressional representative or senator in the state. Together, the state's largest defense corporations form a powerful conglomerate and a strong reason for the continued flow of federal defense contracts into the state. Electric Boat is one of only two nuclear submarine manufacturers in the country; Sikorsky Aircraft is producing the newest and most advanced wave of attack helicopters; and Pratt & Whitney, the state's largest corporate employer, is one of two u.s. companies that produce turbine jet engines capable of breaking the sound barrier. According to Frederick Downey, Lieberman's Assistant for Defense and Foreign Policy, these corporations fill crucial roles in American defense capabilities and are vital to national security. The loss of Electric Boat, for instance, would leave the u.s. with only one facility for the manufacture of nuclear submarines. 
The need to sustain these security capabilities has created in Connecticut what Mark Sullivan, Director of Communications and a second generation employee at Pratt & Whitney, terms the "Silicon Valley" effect: even if most people aren't officially employed by the defense industry, they still work for it in some capacity. While the Connecticut Department of Economic and Community Development lists only an estimated 60,000 employees in the defense sector, it lists five times as many in manufacturing as a whole. According to Sullivan, much of Connecticut's manufacturing sector relies in part on subcontracts from corporations like Pratt & Whitney, which produces less than half of the parts in the engines it assembles. Even without subcontracting, defense contracts alone can significantly boost the state's economy. Not only do federal investments bring the state around $1 billion in revenue a year, they also bring in jobs, which bring in employees, who bring in families, who bring taxable income to the state. 
The benefits of these defense contracts, however, are deceiving. Federal defense spending in the decade since the end of the Cold War has decreased by 40 percent. This decrease has prompted an industry shift from production to high-tech research and development. With the shift to research and development has come a shift in the work force, from the highly-skilled machinists Connecticut has been breeding since the middle of the 19th century to the specialized engineers its universities don't yet produce. While the dollars in defense contracts remain high, they pay for fewer of the new, more advanced products and fewer of the new, more educated workers. Over the past ten years, Pratt & Whitney's employment base has fallen by 10,000 people nationwide--8,000 in Connecticut alone. Sikorsky also has plans to cut 1,000 people from its Connecticut work force in the next year. In what seems to be an effort to soften the effects of downsizing, United Technologies-the Fortune 500 umbrella company that includes Pratt & Whitney and Sikorsky-has recently announced the consolidation of its West Palm Beach, Florida, and Connecticut Facilities. The move promises to bring new jobs to Connecticut, but-since the plan also calls for the transfer of most Florida employees-not to Connecticut residents. 
To supplement the loss of revenue from developing more sophisticated technologies, Sikorsky and Pratt & Whitney have been forced to seek out new marketplaces for the less sophisticated products they still make. In addition to developing their commercial airplane engine and helicopter lines, the two companies have begun to accrue lucrative contracts from foreign governments. Both Pratt & Whitney and Sikorsky's websites read like advertising campaigns, and the hardest sales pitches come in the descriptions of military products. The Sikorsky site labels the UH-60 Black Hawk, "America's Helicopter." Representative Jim Malone calls it "a big pick-up" for the deployment of troops and supplies. "Rock-steady performance of 20 years-and counting," the website goes on. "Black Hawk flies wherever duty calls. Desert conditions. Arctic climates. Hot and high. Carrying up to 11 troops, fully equipped." Together, the two companies sell military products to approximately 27 countries, including Argentina, Colombia, Israel, Saudi Arabia, Greece, Turkey, Korea, and China. The State Department strictly regulates such sales to foreign governments, but the recent state-approved decision to sell Black Hawks to Turkey has worried even Malone, a supporter of military sales to America's NATO allies. "There are gray cases that need to be carefully considered," he says. "We can't be blind to how Turkey, as an ally of ours, has conducted itself towards Greece, another NATO ally, and to the Kurds." The decision of the companies and the federal government to proceed with sales that are of questionable value to our national interests has little to do with either our protection from "the dangerous world in which we live" -the other catch-phrase of Connecticut congressmen-or the interests of Connecticut workers. It seems, instead, a rather poorly disguised attempt to maintain a defense industry that Colville and others would say has outlived its usefulness. 

"The government is not only unwilling, but unable to disarm. It's powerless to stop building these weapons," Colville tells me as we sit on his porch discussing his ideas about war and Connecticut's defense industry. "At best it comes to, 'How can I take apart a few token weapons and still save my ass?'" 
Colville's strident and unremitting opinions come from his long commitment to social justice and his faith in Jesus, "a non-violent God." His experiences have taught him to make connections between all acts of violence, including those he sees on the streets of New Haven, those he knows about on the streets of Baghdad, and the "weapons of mass destruction" he believes perpetuate them both. The plowshares action against the building of nuclear submarines and the stand against sanctions that, according to Colville, have killed enough Iraqis to constitute war crimes, were not two separate protests with two separate goals. "In this line of work everything's connected," he says. "It's all about [our government's] commitment to violence and war." 
9