Publication date: February 18, 1968
Volume: one
Issue number: eight


**MASTHEAD**
- Editor: Daniel H. Yergin
- Publisher: Peter Yaeger
- Executive Editor: Jeffrey Pollock
- Designer: Ronald Gross
- Photography Editor: Herman Hong
- Advertising Manager: Jeffrey Denner
- Associate Editor: Jonathan Lear
- Circulation Manager: Jean-Pierre Jordan
- Copy Editor: Alan Wachtel
- Classifieds: William M. Burstein
- Contributing Editors: Susan Braudy, Michael Lerner
- Staff: John Boak, Paul Bennett, Jennifer Josephy, Lawrence Lasker, Chris Little, Howard Newman, William Rhodes, Barney Rubin, Sam Sutherland


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- The talking computers - John Adams and Tim Bates
- Wolfgang Leonhard - Jonathan Lear
- Trumbull sculpture photographed - Christopher Little
- The Cold War and America's foreign mythology - Rand Rosenblatt


**Title: In Comment: The teach-in returns to Yale, McCarthy supporters start looking for a New Haven primary, the Charities Drive focuses on the urban crisis, and Douglas Cole discusses what the Drama School did to Pirandello's Henry IV.**
**Author: Daniel Yergin**
**Page number(s): 2**

Teach-ins
The article that begins on page 10, "The 
Cold War and America's foreign mythol-
ogy," is a complement to a piece that ran 
in this magazine last fall, "The success 
and tragedy of Richard Lee," by John 
Wilhelm. The Richard Lee article con-
fronted the so-called liberal assumptions 
that have been the more or less dominant 
mode in domestic affairs since 1932. The 
Cold War article similarly deals with the 
language, policies and assumptions of post-
World War II foreign policy. It is the con-
fluence of Vietnam and the urban crisis · 
that has brought us to this point of neces-
sary re-evaluation, to what seems to be 
the end of an era. In both articles, the 
writers not only argue that those liberal 
assumptions are no longer valid, but that 
they were never truly valid. 


If this is the case, then the normal 
process is to seek new assumptions that 
promise better solutions, to define a new 
vocabulary and to suggest new avenues of 
action. This need, appropriately intel-
lectual and quite proper to the university 
community, is finding a response in the 
Yale community, and one of the clearest 
demonstrations has been the recent series 
of teach-ins. 


They proved that it's possible to bring 
people together for useful discussions that 
succeed at presenting information defin-
ing problems and suggesting alternatives. 
The most obviously impressive was the 
last, held on Monday, February 12. The 
subject was billed as the draft, but the 23 
professors covered a wide range of topics. 
Some were polemical, but many points of 
view were presented. In the middle were 
the liberals, men like political scientist 
Robert Dahl and James Tobin, former 
member of the Council of Economic 
Advisors, for whose generation World 
War II had been the war and who now 
find their basic assumptions about liberal 
democracy severely tested. 


But the other teach-ins--Conscience 
and the Draft, held on January 28, and 
The Pueblo Crisis, held on January 30--
were no less valuable. From the perspec-
tive of a psychiatrist, Dr. Robert Lifton 
discussed the "circles of self-deception" 
that government leaders impose upon 
themselves and also the process of 
"psychic numbing," by which people close 
themselves off from the human suffering 
they inflict. Law professor Clyde Summers 
thought the Coffin indictment had raised 
a fundamental problem for which he saw 
no quick solution: can a man test a Jaw 
through the legal system without putting 
himself in jeopardy if he loses? Harry 
Benda, chairman of the Council on 
Southeast Asian Studies, pointed out that 
Korea and Vietnam are not interchange-
able, that the Vietnamese communists are 
quite indigenous to their country. One 
of the most moving speakers was John 
White, now a Yale MAT and a local high 
school teacher, who--from coded mes-
sages reviewed while on duty with the 
Navy as a nuclear weapons officer, and 
from what he himself admitted was an un-
certain conversation with a chief petty 
officer months later-suggested that the 
Gulf of Tonkin Resolution showed dis-
turbing signs of having been a put-up job. 


The teach-ins also have another value, 
that of responding to a specific crisis or 
situation, aS in the case of the Pueblo. 
Normally, a crisis suddenly blows into the 
headlines. Washington gets grim, and the 
only analysis you can get in the midst of 
the event is that of Eric Severeid, gloomily 
blowing air bubbles, or that of Marvin 
Kalb, solemn-facedly quoting State De-
partment officials. At such a time, it's use-
ful to hear from somebody like Benda 
who can bring special competence and 
perspective to bear. 


**Title: Drive**

The urban crisis is at the core of this year's 
Yale Charities Drive. Two thirds of the 
proceeds are going to agencies in New 
Haven which run small but promising 
projects. The Drive is supporting the 
Dixwell Legal Rights Association and the 
Hill Action Group, which will use the 
funds to construct a sewing machine 
center in the Hill area. The Drive is also 
aiding the Hill Arts Co-operative, a stage 
company that has become the greatest 
outlet for creative expression in the Hill 
area, the service fraternity Alpha Phi 
Omega, and the U.S. Grant Foundation, 
which provides personal tutoring for stu-
dents in New Haven. 


The remaining third of the Drive's funds 
will go to agencies working in cities 
abroad. Accion. which provides services 
in such slums as Rio de Janeiro's Favela 
Varginha, will receive funds for self-help 
projects. The World University Service 
will use Yale's contribution to build a 
hostel for student housing in Manila, and 
the Drive will also support Yale-in-China's 
efforts in Hong Kong. 


**Title: McCarthy**
**Author: Michael McConnell Yale '66**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

The Yale Citizens for McCarthy com-
mittee has begun working for a New 
Haven primary. Undergraduate and 
graduate groups have joined, or are try-
ing to create, organizations in 12 of New 
Haven's 33 wards. They are conducting a 
preliminary poll to determine the depth 
of potential support for the McCarthy 
drive to oppose a unanimous Johnson 
convention. Although no one in Con-
necticut can remember a similar develop-
ment, the election law provides the 
opportunity to challenge the town com-
mittee's slate of state convention nominees 
with a signed petition of five per cent of 
the party's registered voters. The state 
convention selects national convention 
delegates. In New Haven, five per cent 
would be about 1300 signatures, and 
McCarthy supporters seem confident of 
their ability to force a primary, which 
would be held on April 9. The question 
now, they say, is how much beyond that 
five per cent they will be able to go, and 
whether they can in the space of two 
months build an organization capable of 
in any way challenging Arthur Barbieri's 
strong Democratic machine. The New 
Haven McCarthy for President Committee 
is counting on Yale for a great deal of help 
in the next two months, and the Yale 
committee, headed by Jim Woolsey, is try-
ing to meet their needs. An office has been 
set up in Room 16 in Pierson College, and 
each undergraduate college has its own 
group working more or less autonomously 
in a specific ward. Smaller groups are also 
traveling to New Hampshire on weekends, 
and a large registration drive will begin 
shortly for graduate students and new 
faculty. The only names that can now be 
added to the primary Jist are those of new 
or transferred registrants. 


**Title: Henry**
**Author: Douglas Cole**
**Page number(s): 3-4**

"Have you seen Henry IV?" is the question 
I cannot answer after leaving the Yale 
Drama School's latest production. I am 
not sure I have seen Pirandello's play, but 
I am certain I have seen Kenneth Haigh. 
I have seen him move with astounding and 
chaotic energy through a kaleidoscopic 
range of moods, expressions, vocal tones, 
shifts in pace, physical postures and psy-
chological attitudes. He plays the madman 
with superb frenzy, pushing us into amaze-
ment and embarrassed confusion at the 
unpredictable, puppet-like contortions of 
a personality gone to pieces, a man frag-
mented by the impulse to live out three 
different lives: the historical, fixed life of 
an eleventh-century emperor; the lost and 
irretrievable life of his youth; the present 
and unbearable life of a graying, frustrated 
man. A lunatic mannikin at one end of 
the scale, a bitter philosopher at the other, 
a frustrated and vengeful lover somewhere 
in between, Haigh shuttles erratically back 
and forth from one point of the spectrum 
to another, marking his lightning-like 
shifts with changes in posture, voice, 
facial expression, even the focus of his 
eyes. The effect is dizzying, unnerving, 
wildly comic and pathetic by turns, and 
overwhelmingly grotesque. It is not unlike 
the effect of the insane antics of Peter 
Brook's actors in his production of Weiss's 
Maratl Sade; and perhaps it is close to the 
sort of thrill the Elizabethans experienced 
when they visited insane asylums for 
amusement. Close, perhaps, but never 
quite the same. For in the Yale Theatre we 
never forget that this madman is an actor, 
this figure is Kenneth Haigh. The 
pyrotechnics of his performing style seem 
to light up not the deep psychological 
recesses of the nameless man who has 
decided to persevere in the costume role 
of Henry IV, but the virtuoso skill of the 
actor playing that actor. Can a star per-
former be "too good" for the good of the 
play? Can virtuoso acting distract from 
that which is acted? Can style and form 
obscure content? These are questions that 
Pirandello himself was fond of asking, 
questions be himself posed explicitly in 
his experimental trilogy of "the theatre in 
the theatre," of which Six Characters in 
Search of An Author is best known. The 
Yale production of Henry IV poses them 
anew. 


Haigh's portrayal of the central role is 
in keeping with the entire production's 
elaboration of a characteristic Pirandellian 
habit: superimposing the comic mask on 
the tragic mask. The elaboration pushes 
the manic and farcical dimensions of this 
continued on page 14


**Title: Language and the talking computers**
**Author: John Adams and Tim Bates**
**Page number(s): 3-9**

John Adams, a junior in Yale College, is 
m~~joring in Mathematics and Philosophy. 
Tim Bates is a sophomore in Yale College. 
The scientist collected a ream of print-out 
from Yale's computer. He leafed quickly 
through the results to the last page and 
then began circling letters in red as he 
mentally converted the cryptographic com-
puter output. 


"You can see," he apologized, "we 
haven't worked out the order of the 
negative. The 'n' should be between the 
'z' and the 't'." The word should have 
been "wasn't," but it came out "wanst." 
As it read now, the response was a mean-
ingless tongue-twister, but it was close to 
being correct. 


The sentence circled in red was not 
simply the computer's mindless response 
to a program. It marked a step closer to 
having a computer "think" like us, for in 
this simple example the computer had 
selected the word order, tense and mood 
of the sentence. The machine was not 
simply "talking" English; it was "think-
ing" English. Its teacher is Sydney M. 
Lamb, associate professor of linguistics 
at Yale. 


"We're trying to study the language 
system people have within their brains," 
Lamb explained. "We have a model of the 
information which makes it possible for 
man to speak English. We put this in-
formation into the computer and turn it 
on, and hope the computer will produce 
English. Later, we'll get it to understand 
English." 


His hands floated descriptively through 
the air as he searched for a more ex-
pressive, though not technical, definition of 
his project. "You know the brain's lan-
guage structure is in the form of a net-
work. We're trying to figure out what 
the properties of that network are." 


Describing the process of communica-
tion in the brain consists of two parts. 
"First, we have various questions about 
how the network is organized. Second, 
we have questions about how signals move 
through the network." 


Lamb's hypothetical network-that is, 
his description of the brain's language 
structure--consists of a series of strata. 
His book Outline of Stratificational 
Grammar states that languages possess at 
least four strata. English has six: three 
major components, each composed of 
two strata. The lower strata are concerned 
with speech sounds; the middle are basical-
ly grammar, though elementary-school 
ideas about right grammar and wrong 
grammar are supplanted by something 
closer to actual usage; the higher strata 
deal with concepts and meaning. 


The process of speech involves move-
ment of impulses from the top strata to 
the bottom while the process of under-
standing is just the opposite. For instance, 
concepts are represented by points htgh 
in the network; they are connected to the 
words and phrases lower in the network 
which stand for these concepts. In speak-
ing, impulses are sent down along the 
connections from meanings to another 
level where the grammar of the sentence 
is formed. Still lower, the network con-
nections lead to muscles of the speech 
mechanism. "Of course," smiled Lamb, 
"we don't try to put that part in the com-
puter." Likewise, those without ESP must 
reverse the process when they bear the 
sentence, going upward from sounds to 
concepts. 


"So far, this is true only in theory. We 
are only beginning to make the theory 
operative in the machines." 


Lamb, who graduated from Yale in 
1951, majored in economics. "I'm sure;• 
he said, "what I learned in econ inftuenced 
my approach to linguistics." He did 
graduate work in linguistics at Berkeley. 
T here he ran a project designing a com-
puter system to translate from Russian to 
English, the same two languages used in 
his present studies. 


In the fall of 1964 he returned to Yale, 
"because I was an Old Blue and liked the 
people here in linguistics very much, and 
it was time for a change." But because all 
the "bugs" are not yet ironed out of his 
work and because of more basic differ-
ences of analysis with other groups of 
linguists, Lamb's work at Yale has not 
escaped criticism. "We are controversial. 
We have yet to be accepted. The main 
difficulty is that people don't understand 
what we're doing. It's just a matter of 
time until they become familiar with our 
concepts. There is not much literature on 
this yet." 


"Our competition," he went on, "is lead 
by Professor Noam Chomsky at MIT. 
The trouble with his theory is that it 
can't account for the fact that people 
speak." 


Chomsky and the "transformationalists" 
have modernized linguistics by setting for 
themselves the admirable goal of describ-
ing, with systematic precision, all the sen-
tences that people can speak. Previously, 
linguists tried to classify and describe 
various facts about a language without 
constructing a unified whole. 


"Chomsky's system lacks psychological 
reality because it fails to provide any 
account of the way a person can express 
his thoughts through the use of language. 
His model relates only to sentences, not to 
people." Lamb grinned as he found a 
clincher. "You see, we know people 
can speak." 


Recently, Chomsky has adopted some 
stratificational concepts, but in Lamb's 
opinion he has not included enough. H e 
distinguishes "deep structure" from 
"surface structure" (how the sentence 
sounds), but does not distinguish these 
levels as sharply as the stratificationalists 
do. Chomsky has phonetic features in his 
"deep structure," as well as in his "surface 
structure." Lamb's deep structure, which 
he calls the semem ic stratum (the sem- is 
from semantics), consists of network con-
nections. In Lamb's system, phonetic 
features are found only at the bottom of 
the network. 


Their dispute does not rest solely on 
the abstract concepts of bow to describe 
a language system. Lamb sees Chomsky's 
system as lacking from a more practical 
standpoint. One of the goals in linguistics--
just as in the other sciences-is to account 
for the data with the simplest possible 
gramm ar, "without a lot of ad hoc rules, 
devised to cover a multitude of particular 
situations." In his recent review of 
Chomsky's book, Aspect of the Theory 
of Syntax, Lamb attacked the transforma-
tion (process-description) approach on this 
central point, seeing the system as "per-
haps its own severest critic, in that it 
demonstrates very effectively the needless 
complexity forced upon the grammarian 
by process description." 


"Maybe we can bring out the difference 
between the two systems with a non-
linguistic example," said Lamb. "A 
'process description' would say man is 
descended from the ape. I would say no, 
they're both derived from a common 
ancestor." Lamb would refuse to give 
priority to any member of the same 
stratum, but would rather say they are 
both derived from a point above them 
in the network. 


"I have another example. In baseball, 
there is the high-level concept of a strike. 
I would say that it has three manifesta-
tions: a swing-and-a-miss, a called strike, 
or a foul ball. A transformational descrip-
tion would call a swing-and-a-miss a 
'basic' strike, and then proceed to derive 
the other two by transformations." 


Computer projects on linguistics are 
springing up throughout the country, 
though few exhibit true linguistic sophisti-
cation. Most try to overcome the problems 
of accurate description of language by 
adding enough machinery to "cover up" 
deeper weaknesses. IBM, for example, 
exhibited a Russian-English translator 
at the New York World's Fair. "It pro-
duced," commented Lamb, "a quite 
primitive translation. It's being used now 
by the Air F orce. Linguists tend to frown 
on it." 


The University of Chicago and the 
RAND Corporation are both doing com-
puter-aided linguistic research. Another 
important project is located in Grenoble, 
France, and the Prague school of linguists 
is also doing considerable work, as are 
several Russian algebraists. One of Lamb's 
former students, now at the University of 
Wisconsin, is training a computer to sim-
ulate a linguistic field worker. "When a 
linguist encounters a new language," 
Lamb said, "he learns it, analyzes it and 
then constructs its grammar. This guy is 
trying to program a computer to do what 
a linguist does to analyze a new language. 


"However, there is nothing like our 
project, nothing with these particular 
goals." When attained, Lamb's goal of 
modeling the brain's language network 
will open up new areas for computer use. 


Lamb considers an important product of 
his studies to be linguistic automation. 
Scholarly and scientific information could 
be placed in computer storage, and this 
information could be retrieved through 
high-speed computers. 


"Also, if the computer can understand 
English, we may simplify the process of 
communication by allowing people to talk 
to computers in ordinary language," added 
Lamb. In fact, the old dictum of tenure 
could be rephrased to "program or 
perish." The published book would be 
replaced by a session with a computer 
that would make the information available 
to all. 


But what could be done along these 
lines for English could also be done for 
Russian, French or any other language. 
Seen from this aspect, machine transla-
tion would be simply a corollary to more 
general advances in linguistic automation. 


"However, the application I'm most 
interested in is the understanding of the 
brain. The most striking feature of our 
system is that it may indicate something 
general about the operation of the human 
brain. I would hope to be able to extend 
this project to discover how man's brain 
organizes knowledge in general." 



**Title: 41 The New Journal**
**Author: Jonathan Lear**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
41 The New Journal I February 18, 1968 
Comrade Leonhard had 
defected .... 
by Jonathan Lear 
When in 1925 Lenin's widow, K.rupskaya, 
saw that the Fourteenth Party Congress 
was packed with Stalin's flunkies, she 
feared that the rule of a single strong man 
would violate communist ideology. 
Stalin dealt with her simply; he said, 
"If you don't shut up, I will appoint 
another widow for Lenin." 
While the students who had filled the 
large lecture auditorium for History 
63b were laughing at the anecdote, Wolf-
gang Leonhard pulled out a cigarette from 
his right inside coat pocket and, from his 
left pocket, a cigarette holder. The stu-
dents, quieting down, watched and waited; 
slowly Leonhard fit the cigarette into its 
holder and then, with the audience now 
perfectly silent, resumed his discussion 
of how Stalin corrupted early communist 
ideology. 

For Leonhard, who returned to Yale this 
semester after a two-year break, the history 
of Stalin is in part a carefully researched 
and clearly analyzed piece of scholarship, 
reflecting the standards one would expect 
of a leading student of communism. But 
the history of communism means some-
thing more to Leonhard, for it has to do in 
a fundamental way with his own private 
history. 

Leonhard is an intellectual, and it is 
interesting to note that decisive changes 
in his life frequently arose from lectures. 
Perhaps the most decisive of all was a 
lecture that he was scheduled to deliver 
but never did almost two decades ago. 
The failure was the result of Stalin's cor-
ruptions and the discrepancy they revealed 
between the ideology and the practice of 
communism. 

On March 15, 1949, students were wait-
ing, notebooks open, in the large lecture 
hall of the Karl Marx Academy of the 
German Communist Party for Comrade 
Leonhard to deliver his talk on the pre-
World War I workers' movement. But no 
Comrade Leonhard strode into this room. 
Students shuffled their notebooks, and the 
suspicions of faculty members began to 
rise. 

A check was hastily made. There could 
be no further doubt; Comrade Wolfgang 
Leonhard bad defected from East 
Germany. But to where? There was 
nothing in the West Berlin press. A few 
weeks later the answer came, but in a 
broadcast from Radio Belgrade; Wolfgang 
Leonhard had defected to Yugoslavia, 
to a communist state not under Stalin's 
sway. 

While there had already been a number 
of East German defections, Leonhard 
was the first Soviet-educated official to 
escape. Most defectors had fled to the 
West; Leonhard has chosen another form 
of communism. 

In the spring of 1935, Leonhard's 
mother, a member of the German Com-
munist Party, fled from the Gestapo into 
Sweden. Once safely settled, she offered 
her 13-year-old son Wolfgang the choice 
of emigrating to England or to the Soviet 
· Union. A member of the Young Pioneers 
since age 11, Leonhard had no hesitation 
in choosing the Soviet Union. 

Arriving in Moscow, Leonhard and his 
mother settled in a furnished room at 
26 Gorky Street. In September. 1935, 
Leonhard entered the Karl Liebnecht 
School for German students and soon 
became a Soviet Young Pioneer. The 
Young Pioneers taught Leonhard to jud' 
similar events differently, depending on 
their context. A rise in prices in a capitali!t 
country reflected the exploitation of the 
workers, but a rise in Soviet prices was a 
contribution to the establishment of 
socialism. 

In the summer of 1936, the summer 
when the great purges began, Leonhard 
left his mother and went to live in Chil-
dren's Home No. 6, a privileged home 
for children of Austrian emigres. When 
he left for school be did not realize it 
would be the last time he would live with 
his mother. One October day they walked 
together to a candy store near the N ikitskj 
Gate. Since Leonhard was having a little 
trouble doing homework in technical· 
drawing, his mother promised to help 
him when she visited the next day. At the 
appointed time Leonhard arrived, but 
waited alone. After half an hour, be 
went to her little room near the Nikitsky 
Gate, thinking that she might be ill. No 
one came to the locked door. Neighbors 
told the 14-year-old Leonhard that his 
mother had left on an assignment. 

The curriculum of the school radically 
changed in the next few weeks. Men who 1 
had been held up as examples of the rev-
olution now emerged as anti-Soviet 
Trotskyites. While vacationing with his 
( 
school shortly after exams, Leonhard 
received a postcard that revealed his 
mother's fate. Inscribed "K.R.T.D.-5 
years," the card reported that his mother 
had been arrested and convicted of 
"counter-revolutionary Trotskyite 
activity." 

Leonhard was unable to reconcile his 
vacationing in the Crimea with his 
mother's imprisonment in a concentratiOO 
camp near the Arctic Circle; he withdreW 
from the group's excursion. 

Back in Moscow in August, 1937, and 
n_ow attending a Russian school, Leonhard 
saw the mass arrests spread through all 
levels of Soviet society. In school one daY 
the lecturer, leaving the main hall, noticed 
two men who were obviously from the 
NKVD. 

"They've come to get you, Karl," joked 
one student to the teacher. 

"You shouldn't joke about such things: 
you know very well that in the Soviet 
. 
Union innocent people are never arrested. 
said the teacher. 


The two men approached, asked the 
teacher his name and then said to him, 
"You are under arrest. We are representJ-
tives of the NKVD." While this would 
have shocked students only a year earlie! 
by March, 1938, they accepted it alroos! 
indifferently. 

Wolfgang and his classmates vacationed 
at Yeysk on the Sea of Azov in the s~ 
of 19 3 9. The mass arrests and the reign 
\ 
of NKVD terror bad terminated as 
abruptly as it had begun. One day J..,eOit 
hard's political tutor, Igor Speransky, 
excitedly called all his students together~ 
He had been in town that day and fidset. 
nervously with the proof of the next daYs 
newspaper. Speransky dumbfounded all 
the politically aware students as he read 
in solemn tones that Russia had siglled 1 
non-aggression pact with Germany. 

"Ah, what a pity," said Egon Dirn-
bacher, the youngest of the students.~ 
we shall certainly never be allowed to~ 
Charlie Chaplin in The Great Dictatot· 

In preparing to enter the Moscow_.al!d 
Teachers' Institute for Foreign Lang.-
in September, 1939, Leonhard couldn't


--- Page 5 ---

bdp noticing how the alliance with Ger-
IDIDY bad changed the curriculum. A year 
•tier the most significant event in 
luisian history was Alexander Nevsky's 
clefeat of the Teutonic Knights in 1242. 
Now it did not receive so much as paren-
theticaJ mention, and in its place Peter 
lbe Great's formation of the Prussian 
State in 1701 was emphasized as the 
foundation of the Russian-German 
alliance. 

After a year's preparation spent in 
studying Marx, Engels and Lenin, Leon-
bard applied for membership in the 
Komsomol, the Communist Youth 
• 
I.Aque. At an earlier time, his mother's 
lll'elt by the NK.VD would surely have 
aduded the possibility of membership, 
bat by autumn, 1939, it was not held 
qainst him. Apparently the members of 
lbe Komsomol maintained the same 
mental separation between ideology and 
everyday personal events as Leonhard. 
They justified the purges as an abstract 
hiltorical necessity, to which some in-
DOCent people would have to be sacrificed. 

A hush of astonishment fell over the 
lecture hall of German emigre students 
11 they listened to their lecturer on that 
Monday evening in June, 1941. For a 
JeW now Leonhard and all other German 
lbldents in Moscow had been required to 
llteod special political lectures on Monday 
Mnings. But this lecture seemed quite 
different. The speaker said that the char-
acter of the war might change drastically. 
Trained to pounce on the slightest in-
lluendo, students knew there had been no 
IDelltion of this in Pravda. This speech 
portended grave alteration. The speaker 
WU Walter Ulbricht. Six days later Nazi 
lloops invaded the Soviet Union. 

During this week Leonhard and his 
hllow students feverishly prepared for 
IDal examinations. On the morning of 
' Juoe 22 most students awoke at 4 a.m. to 
II 
cnm in a few extra hours study before the 
&d 
...._Working on the assumption that a 
IDOd night's sleep helps more than study, 
IJ 
Leoabard planned to get IJP around 9 in 
~ 
1IMI morning. The commotion made sleep 
ibpossible. Leonhard awoke to banging 
:d 
Oil his door and to cries, "Molotov is going 
folpeak." All sat around the radio and 
lleUd the Deputy Chairman of the Council 
elf People's Commissars declare war and 
demand victory against "the German 
, '-ist rulers." The word fascist bad not 
beea used for almost two years. 

On August 14 Pravda announced, "A 
few days ago, our troops withdrew from 
Saaoleiisk." This meant that Nazi troops 
-..e near Moscow. The Soviet govern-
.._ decided to send all German emigres 
deep into the Russian interior. After a 
llriea of deportations, Leonhard accident-
IIJ met Walter Ulbricht, who was visiting 
Glrman prisoner-of-war camps outside of 
~nda. Leonhard stayed in Kara-
until a summer day in 1942, when 
~received the following telegram: 

"Comrade Leonhard is to come at once 
loUfL., It was signed "Vilkov." 

l..eoohard didn't know a Vilkov, and 
... 
Uta lay eighteen hundred miles away. 
• ctid know that the Com intern, the 
~organ of international commun-
-. had its base in Ufa, but he couldn't 
~d 
why he had been so mysteri-
lllly IUIDmoned. 

Ia a few weeks the long chain of briefing 
...... ftnally reached its last link, and 
~·;res arrived at the Comintem School, 
in Kushnarenkovo, about 40 miles 
....._of Ufa. Immediately Leonhard 
.... taken to the secretary, who forbade 
him to write letters, to tell any students 
who be was or to say anything about his 
previous life. Leonhard adopted the name 
"Linden" and joined the German group, 
which turned out to be a reunion with 
many of his childhood friends from 
Children's Home No. 6. When he met his 
best friend, Helmut Gennys, they could 
only exchange aliases. 

One boy in Leonhard's dormitory re-
fused to take the secretive procedures too 
seriously. He had lost an arm fighting at 
the front, and told his classmates all about 
it, contrary to rules. Yet he seemed to be 
the only one allowed to break rules. 

Zharko, as be was called, always occupied 
the center of attention with his cheerful 
flaunting of authority. Later be revealed 
his identity as the son of Tito. 

After a rigorous morning's exercise, 
students spent the rest of the day and 
night in seminars and lectures on political 
theory and practice. Leonhard learned 
how to compose a "politically correct" 
pamphlet quickly on any subject pre-
sented. His teacher, Klassner, would argue 
a tight case for Nazi ideology, and the 
students would try to refute it. Roles would 
then be reversed. Leonhard learned to 
print propaganda leaflets by any clan-
destine technique from photo-offset to 
hand-molded clay. 

At this time, Leonhard first encountered 
"criticism and self-criticism"-a brutalized 
form of the T-groups now popular in 
American psychology-when be stuck up 
for a younger friend who was being 
bullied by another student. The next day 
the German director, Klassner, called all 
three students to his office. Leonhard 
thought he would serve merely as witness, 
verifying the facts, but Klassner directed 
a flow of cold, unemotional criticism 
against Leonhard. Struck by the accusa-
tions of betraying Bolshevism and the 
Revolution, Leonhard hardly noticed his 
fellow students entering to testify against 
him. One girl recounted statements Leon-
hard had made almost every day since 
his arrival. After she testified that on 
October 6 Comrade Leonhard said the 
Spanish girls were very pretty, Klassner 
spoke of the revolutions that failed over 
love. For hours Klassner blew up every 
trivial statement into serious anti-revolu-
tionary sentiments, while Leonhard sat 
numbed. 

At last the director of the entire Com-
intern School, Mikhailov, called upon 
Leonhard to speak. Students pounced 
upon his weakly stammered confession 
as insincere, superficial and unbecoming 
a Bolshevik. With no decision reached, the 
meeting ended. Leonhard spent the night 
awake in bed with the strongest feelings 
of impotence he ever experienced. 

The next day Klassner instituted another 
session of criticism and self-criticism, in 
which each student had to deliver a speech 
condemning Leonhard. Again no decision 
was reached. Had these psychological bar-
rages led him down the path toward 
redemption, Leonhard could well hav~ 
been molded totally into a cog in the 
Stalinist machine. 

By May, 1943, word spread among the 
students that they would soon take their 
final examinations. But two weeks later 
a new excitement relegated all these to the 
past: a decree of the Presidium dissolved · 
the Com intern. 

The Comintem, heart of international 
communism, existed no longer. Mikhailov, 
the director of the Cornintem School, im-
mediately justified the action to the stu-
dents as fundamental to communist theory 
and emphatically denied rumors of its 
being a concession to Britain and America. 
Students like Leonhard remembered 
Stalin's oath over Lenin's grave--"We 
swear to you, Comrade Lenin, that we will 
not spare our lives in our efforts to 
strengthen and extend the league of work-
ers of the whole world, the Communist 
International." They bad their doubts. 

Leonhard spent the next few weeks in 
Ufa with twelve others on a special assign-
ment of putting the Comintern archives 
ip order. In sorting out material from the 
American Communist Party his eye fell 
upon an article, "Rakovsky's Surrender," 
by Leon Trotsky. "I didn't believe my 
eyes," said Leonhard. "For the first time in 
my life I saw a Trotskyite newspaper. I 
couldn't have been more startled. Even at 
the Comintern School where we could read 
bourgeois and even fascist literature, one 
thing was always prohibited: Trotskyite 
literature." 

After a year away, Leonhard returned to 
Moscow, a graduate of the Comintern 
School in July, 1943. Installed in the 
elegant Hotel Lux, the former residence 
of the highest Comintern officials and now 
the home of Institute-205, the secret 
successor to the Comintern, Leonhard 
began to work on the newspaper Free 
Germany. 

All editorials derived from the highest 
authorities, and therefore an editorial 
proof advocating an armistice with Ger-
many in September, 1943, no doubt sur-
prised Leonhard. This editorial con-
tradicted the previous policy of demanding 
complete surrender of the Nazi regime. 
The editorial had passed two proofreadings 
and the final make-up when the editor 
deleted it. A number of years later Leon-
hard learned that in September, 1943, the 
Soviet Union had sent out peace feelers 
to Germany. When the editor destroyed 
the proof, he destroyed the only printed 
evidence that hinted at that possibility. 

The Red Army began to push forward; 
when it reached the German border in 
August, 1944, 150 prominent German 
emigres met in the Moscow Committee 
of the Party building. Walter Ulbricht 
spoke of a new Germany, and these men 
spent the next year in preparation for the 
return to their homeland and the building 
of the new government. 

An American Douglas aircraft in an 
airport outside of Moscow waited to take 
the first 10 German emigres, known as the 
"Ulbricht Group," into Germany. When 
Leonhard boarded this plane at the end 
of April, 1945, only Ulbricht knew the 
ultimate destination or the mission of the 
group. After landing in German territory 
held by the Russian army, the group drove 
two hours to Bruchmiihle, the political 
center of General Zhukov's army. 

On the day the Wehrmacht capitulated 
in Berlin, May 2, 1945, the Ulbricht group 
began to recruit a new city government. 
Wolfgang Leonhard, age 23, needed to 
find a new mayor of Berlin-Wilmersdorf. 
Mayors, by Ulbricht's order, had to be 
bourgeois anti-fascists, while the deputy 
mayor and men in charge of personnel 
and education should be members of the 
Communist Party. In this way a seemingly 
democratic government would remain 
under communist control. Said Ulbricht, 
"It's got to look democratic, but we must 
have everything in our control." Finding 
bourgeois mayors proved a difficult task, 
and many a Russian commandant would 
walk down the street and, seeing a face 
that struck his fancy, appoint him mayor. 

Just before the British occupation of 
Charlottenburg, a few senior officials asked 
Leonhard to join them in a special mission 
to Berlin Radio. Party authorities believed 
tapes of Molotov's conversations in 
Berlin in 1940 to be buried in secret 
archives, and Leonhard had to recover 
them before the British did. When they 
arrived at the station, the tapes had already 
been seized; not by the British, but by 
the Soviet NKVD. 

Establishing the ideological basis of the 
German Communist Party required a 
tremendous output of pamphlets and 
propaganda, and Leonhard became an 
official in the Propaganda Department of 
the Central Comittee (Agit-prop). 

One evening while meeting with his 
censor and superior, Anton Ackerman, 
Leonhard discovered a fundamental 
change in Party policy. Ackerman spoke 
excitedly of the possibility of developing an 
independent road to socialism in Germany. 
He argued that Germany in 1945 could 
follow a peaceful path to socialism with-
out regard to the Russian example. 


**The Defection of Wolfgang Leonhard**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
71 'lbe New Journal I February 18, 1968 
member of the history department, Leon-
bard's doubts increased. Thoughts once 
buried deep in his unconscious began to 
emerge: the arrest of his mother, the terror 
of the purges, the arrests of his teachers, 
the criticism at the Comintern School 
and, above all, the demands and needs 
of the German people that were being 
sacrificed for the sake of Soviet policy. 
Western literature had little effect on 
Leonhard or other communists. Often 
imprecise, Western newspapers maligned 
what even communists in doubt held 
sacred. However, one article in Neue 
Zeitung, the American paper in Germany, 
injected new doubts. Leonhard could not 
attack the article, which described Stalin-
ism as the antithesis of Marxism and the 
present USSR as a betrayal of the October 
Revolution. Yugoslavia's break with the 
Soviet Union on June 29, 1948, completed 
the long chain of events that led to 
Leonhard's break with Soviet commun-
ism. The Cominform (Communist In-
formation Bureau of the Soviet Union) 
published a manifesto accusing Tito of 
Trotskyism. Up until that time Tito 
himself had been weeding out Trotskyites 
from the party, and the charge seemed 
utterly groundless. As Leonhard plodded 
through each accusation, he became more 
iafwiated. The accusations stemmed not 
from Trotskyism or capitalism but from 
tbe attempt of a communist country to 
pursue a policy independent of the Soviet 
Union. 

Yugoslavia replied with a point by 
point refutation of the Cominform state-
ment. To Leonhard the refusal to "admit 
errors" was a repudiation of the servile 
criticism system upon which Stalinism 
rested. 

The SED dealt the coup de grace to 
Leonhard's alignment with the party when 
it passed a resolution condemning Yugo-
slavia and reaffirming the necessity of 
German adherence to the Soviet example. 
The party denounced the theory of a 
Jeparate road to communism. 

For the first time Leonhard thought 
leriously about leaving Germany. He 
COUld share these thoughts with only one 
J)enon: his mother. In August, 1948, after 
twelve years of imprisonment in the Soviet 
COncentration and prisoner-of-war camps, 
lbearrived in East Germany. Leonhard, 
who had been trying to obtain her release 
for years, received word of her arrival by 
telegram. After overcoming their separa-
tions of time and experience, Leonhard re-
vealed his plans to escape to Yugoslavia. 
His mother decided that she too must 
escape. 

Leonhard's attachment to Yugoslavia 
did not go unnoticed. The bulletin board 
~the Party Academy carried a criticism 
Ill November questioning his loyalties and 
asking him to take a stand on the question 
Of Yugoslavia. Little time remained. Al-
lbouah extremely careful, Leonhard talked 
toone person too many about Yugoslavia, 
IOd one spring day in 1949 the director of 
tbe Party Academy ordered Leonhard to 
l"eport for criticism. 

his
He sat through charge after charge by 
colleagues; be recited a non-committal 
IDswer of the sort be had learned to 
~annulate at the Comintero School, hop-
.. to pin enough time to escape. He 
~.The 
director announced that 
~~decision would be made by the 
~umburo in a few days. 

l..eoobard walked slowly out of the 
~ 
building and back to his room. In 
~utes he packed a few items into an 
lllconspicuous briefcase and left in a 
chauffeur-driven Party car. The word on 
Leonhard had obviously not yet filtered 
down to the lower echelons. After a call 
to his mother he made the long-planned 
call that procured a car which took him 
to the border between the Soviet Zone 
and Czechoslovakia. The journey across 
the border had to be made on foot, and 
an experienced guide waited to lead him 
on the four-kilometer hike. Posing as a 
Czech, Leonhard then traveled by sled 
to the train for Podmokly, where a con-
tact supposedly awaited him. No one 
met him there, so he decided to travel to 
Prague on.his own. Arriving at 10:30 p.m., 
Leonhard went to the house where he had 
planned to go if the Podmokly contact 
failed. He knocked on the door. No one 
answered. Desperate, he decided to go 
back to the train station rather then risk 
waiting in this unpopulated area. He 
racked his brain for a relevant teaching 
of the Comintern School, but no solution 
appeared. He could only risk everything 
by trusting a total stranger at the train 
station. He picked the right stranger: a 
Czechoslovak communist, sympathetic 
to Tito. Leonhard slept at the Czech's 
home; the next day he made the contacts 
that had previously failed. 

On March 25, 1949, Wolfgang Leon-
hard arrived in Belgrade, Yugoslavia. 
A few weeks later, Radio Belgrade 
broadcast in twelve languages Leonhard's 
condemnation of the Cominform resolu-
tion and his praise of Yugoslavia's break. 
The defection of such an important party 
figure forced the SED to take decisive 
action. Four days after the broadcast, on 
April26, 1949, the German Communist 
Party officially expelled Wolfgang Leon-
hard. The Politburo announced that 
Leonhard had been connected with the 
Yugoslav military mission and had there-
fore indirectly served American capitalist 
interests. All faculty at the Karl Marx 
Academy repeatedly met to practice 
criticism and self-criticism, denouncing 
Leonhard and blaming themselves for not 
discovering his deviance sooner. One 
lecturer delivered a special lecture on 
the "Leonhard Case." 

Leonhard spent the next year writing 
two booklets on Yugoslav communism 
and broadcasting over Radio Belgrade. 
In May, 1950, Leonhard met the leader 
of this communist country free of the in-
human, bureaucratic qualities of Stalinism. 
The afternoon spent with Tito in his 
garden discussing ideological problems 
of communism remains deeply embedded 
in Leonhard's memory. Until their meet-
ing, Leonhard knew only leaders of the 
Stalinist mold. Tito had a vast library 
filled not only with political works but also 
with plays, poetry and fiction, all quite 
different from the party manuals that lined 
Walter Ulbricht's office. Tito di~played a 
remarkable sense of humor, in contrast 
to Ulbricht's humorless espousal of 
straight party decisions. 

Tito reflected reform communism, an 
attempt to free communist ideology from 
dogJDatism, return to the humanism of 
Marx and look at the problems of our 
times from this starting point. 

Leonhard left Yugoslavia for West 
Germany in November, 1950, not for 
political reasons, but to write and speak 
in his native language. He did not defect 
to the West, nor did his standard of living 
improve. In fact it fell drastically. Earning 
just enough money to live by working in 
a publishing office, and living in a one-
room cubicle, he did not adjust easily to


**Art Exhibit at Trumbull College**
**Author: J. A. Fincke**
**Page number(s): 9**

Walk in, turn left, and enter the foyer. In 
front of you hangs a swirling canvas covered 
with orange volcanic eruptions, streaks and 
blobs of black flotsam, and overhanging col-
loidal clouds suspended in a dense dirty blue 
underlayer. A small strip of paper says "Sea 
Picture With Black" by Helen Frankenthaler. 

Behind a glass front is an irregular 
quadrilateral within a pentagon. The glass 
ripples, faster and faster, bands of light and 
shadows multiplying and racing to escape 
from the whirlpool. 

Paintings and sculptures are now on display 
in the home of Trumbull College Master 
Ronald Dworkin. On loan from the private 
collection of Mrs. Susan Morse Rilles, wife 
of professor emeritus of English Literature 
Frederick Hilles, they are works by con-
temporary French, English and American 
artists in a wide range of styles. The exhibition 
began on December 9 and will end February 
17, and is open to the public from 3:00 to 
5:00p.m. 

The gallery is part of a continuing experi-
ment designed to bring students and art into 
closer touch with each other. Last year 
Trumbull presented an exhibit from the Leo 
Castelli Gallery as well as a selection from 
the San Francisco Poster Show, and Master 
Dworkin hopes to obtain a gallery of Robert 
Rauschenberg's drawings of Dante's Inferno 
in the near future. 

The Rilles exhibition is displayed in the 
Dworkin's living room, dining room and 
entrance foyer, and along two flights of wind-
ing stairs. The unusual setting is extremely 
effective in putting the viewer at ease and 
enabling him to examine the art from various 
sides, angles and distances, and in relation to 
its surroundings. The dining room, for ex-
ample, features a bizarre table setting with 
two diners, including a detached plaster hand 
clutching a fork. '1be Great American Nude 
S69" and "Dark Portrait" are among many 
provocative works on the upper floors. 
Yale College 



**Title: The Cold War and America's foreign mythology**
**Author: Rand Rosenblatt**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10 I The New Journal I February 18, 1968 
The Cold War and America's 
foreign mythology 
by Rand Rosenblatt 
Rand Rosenblatt, a student in th.e Law 
School, has studied at the London School 
of Economics and at Harvard. 
Containment and Revolution, edited by 
David Horowitz, Beacon Press. 
On January 30, 1968, the National Libera-
tion Front launched strong attacks on 
Saigon and thirty-four other major cities 
in South Vietnam, surprising the Ameri-
cans, overpowering the South Vietnamese 
troops and holding key urban positions for 
longer than a week. According to TheN ew 
York Times, the attacks taught "the facts 
of life about the war" to all Americans 
from the President on down. Our govern-
ment's recent claims that we had pacified 
much of th~ country, retrained the Saigon 
army and broken the morale of the enemy 
simply evaporated. Most of the resulting 
criticism in Washington focused on 
strategic mistakes, but some implied a 
much broader concern: that the assump-
tions behind our commitment to fight com-
munism and "subversion," not only in 
Vietnam but all over the world, were 
again being starkly tested. 

The test was familiar because the 
American government has held tight to a 
certain approach to world affairs, and has 
refused to confront a fundamental critic-
ism of our costly and violent policies: that 
these policies derive from long-standing 
mythl> about the history of the twentieth 
century. An analysis of these myths, made 
strikingly relevant by the latest crisis, is 
presented forcefully in a new collection of 
essays, Containment and Revolution, 
edited by David Horowitz. Each essay 
focuses on a specific aspect of the Cold 
War, and each attempts to revise orthodox 
American ideas about the struggle's origin 
and significance. As a whole, the essays 
attack three dominant myths: first, that 
American policy, as embodied in both the 
Cold War and in counter-insurgency 
fighting, is a response .to "foreign aggres-
sion"; second, that our enemies are 
fanatically determined to attack Ameri-
can interests; and third, that the motives 
of our global anti-communism are based 
on a disinterested concern for democracy 
and peaceful progress. 

In attacking the long-accepted myths 
behind our present policy, Horowitz's 
authors join a small group of dissenting 
historians known in the profession as 
"revisionists." Conventional American 
history explained and still explains the 
Cold War as America's response to 
Russian aggression in Eastern Europe. 
During the 1950's and early 1960's a few 
historians, notably William Appleman 
Williams and D. F. Fleming, marshalled 
impressive evidence to show that the 
United States, not the Soviet Union, had 
been the first to repudiate her war-time 
agreements. Christopher Lasch noted in 
a recent article in The New York Times 
Magazine (January 14, 1968) that the 
academic establishment effectively 
smothered this critical work for years, 
thereby lending its own detached and 
scholarly support to the Cold War. But 
the Vietnam war has given our past a new 
urgency; the treatment of disturbing 
historical questions is finally beginning 
to move from left-wing journals into 
Foreign Affairs and The New York Times. 

Horowitz's collection repudiates ortho-
dox history and political science in method 
as well as in interpretation. Implicitly it 
rejects the theory, quite popular among 
"policy-oriented" professors, that deci-
sions can be understood only in terms 
of the details of administrative practice-
the kinds of information the President 
receives, whom he has to "persuade," and 
so on. While these factors ioftuence the 
details of the decision, they say nothing 
about the policy-maker's own beliefs and 
ideas, how he came to have them and how 
these ideas affect his reaction to events 
from "the outside." To understand how 
government leaders came to hold certain 
·beliefs, and what sign.ificance these beliefs 
have, you have to know something about 
the real forces operating at numerous 
levels of their society and over a long 
period of time. 

Horowitz admits that analyzing the 
Cold War in terms of long-term historical 
development is still a highly unorthodox 
procedure. Most professors of interna-
tional relations are only now painfully 
freeing themselves from the clutches of 
"systems theory" and "game theory," 
which define the Cold War as an abstract 
bargaining contest occurring in an histori-
cal vacuum. Other theorists close to the 
government have used aspects of historical 
analysis to make a limited point. Thus 
Henry Kissinger, Richard Neustadt and 
even W. W. Rostow have criticized the 
weakness of Washington's operational, 
short-term approach to world affairs as the 
result of an historical American bias 
toward technical, engineering and military 
skills rather than political or diplomatic 
skills. But their "critique" is merely a 
proposal to make American political man-
agement of the world more efficient, beg-
ging the question of why we should 
manage the world in this way at all. 

The crucial difference between the 
approach in Horowitz's collection and 
that of the orthodox professors is that 
the professors draw narrow limits around 
the "historical structures" they investigate, 
while Horowitz's contributors do not. 
An analysis of administrative practices, 
diplomatic tradition and political heritage 
is common enough in the universities, but 
most attempts to link these factors to 
economic interests and social structure 
are dismissed as "dogmatic Marxism" or 
"conspiracy theory." Instead, the profes-
sors rely on explanatory concepts, such as 
"the political realm" or "the national 
ethos," which cannot be analyzed except 
in· their own terms. The task undertaken 
in Horowitz's collection-to analyze the 
Cold War in terms of long-range historical 
development-is difficult and not uniformlY 
achieved. But the collection as a whole 
performs two great services: the presenta-
tion of disturbing evidence, and its inter-
pretation in the light of a critical theory 
unbounded by the limits of orthodox 
"permissible explanation." 

The first two essays, by Isaac Deutscher 
and William Appleman Williams, are the 
best in the book. Deutscher's "Myths of 
the Cold War," originally delivered as a 
speech at the Berkeley Teach-In on 
Vietnam in May, 1965, approaches the 
Cold War from a very special point of 
view: that of an historian deeply com-
mitted to the ideals of both socialism and 
freedom. Deutscher explodes the orthodOX 
American explanation of the Cold War 
by making three points. First, the USSR 
was practically prostrate in 1945, with its 
industry and population in shambles. Even 
if Stalin had wished to "conquer" all of 
Europe militarily, he was in no position to 
do so. Second, many top American officials 
knew that there was no real threat of a 
Soviet attack; Kennan held this position 
and opposed NATO from the start, and 
even bard-liners such as James Byrnes, 
John Foster Dulles and James Forrestal 
seemed to understand it at times. 

Deutscher's third point exposes the basic 
hollowness of the American position. }'lot 
only was Stalin not capable of conquering 
Europe or even of substantially aiding 
internal revolutions; he did not want 


--- Page 11 ---

revolutions to triumph in other countries. 
Considerable evidence shows that the com-
mumsr successes in China and Yugoslavia, 
far from being part of a "world-wide 
conspiracy," occurred in spite of and in 
opposition to Stalin's policies. The failure 
of the popular revolution in Greece, and 
the easy re-establishment of bourgeois 
democracy in much of Western Europe, 
can be explained partly by Stalin's refusal 
to engage in any serious revolutionary 
IUbversion. 

If there was no real threat of Soviet 
attack or Russian-controlled subversion, 
Ylby did American officials unanimously 
act as if there were? Deutscher analyzes 
American policy in terms of fear and 
arrogance: the fear of any revolution, 
Plrticularly a purely internal one, and the 
arrogant belief that capitalism was the 
only "rational" system, and hence the only 
OOe entitled to respect. These two strains 
0!-American policy came together drama-
licaUy in the case of China: 
... when it turns out that even back-
Ward China, the China that the west 
had kicked around and trampled upon 
!or a century, that even backward China 
IS developing its nuclear industry, we 
[are told] that perhaps if a few bombs 
are dropped on China's nuclear instal-
lations, the growth of that giant will be 
properly interrupted at the right time. 
Quite apart from the wickedness, the 
Pn>found inhumanity of such talk ... 
'What a nonsensical illusion it is, that by 
dropping a few bombs you can really 
ltop the industrial growth and moderni-
lation of the greatest nation in the 
lrorld. Once again, arrogance ... and 
lrishful thinking combine to produce 
IOinething that future historians will 
cite as examples of the degeneration 
of the human mind. 

This way of thinking is not confined 
to generals who have staked their careers 
on the efficacy of war as a solution to 
political problems. David N. Rowe, pro-
fessor of political science at Yale, sug-
gested to the House Subcommittee on the 
Far East in February, 1966, that the 
United States buy up all surplus Canadian 
and Australian wheat, so that there would 
be mass starvation in China. These are 
his words: 
Mind you, I am not talking about this 
as a weapon against the Chinese people. 
It will be. But that is only incidental. 
The weapon will be a weapon against 
the Government because the internal 
stability of that country cannot be 
sustained by an unfriendly Government 
in the face of general starvation. 

Nor is Rowe alone among academics in 
expressing such apocalyptic ideas. Noam 
Chomsky's excellent article, "The Respon-
sibility of the Intellectuals" (The New 
York Review of Books, February 23, 
1967), analyzes some implications of Dr. 
Rowe's thought and shows bow widespread 
such ideas are in the social sciences. 
Deutscber·s critique of them is eloquent 
and probably correct in the very long 
run. But in castiagting these ideas as 
arrogant illusions, Deutscher sidesteps 
the key point made by Horowitz in his 
introduction: that American opposition 
to revolutions, however much laced with 
myths and illusions, rests on real forces 
and interests, and that American power, 
even if sent to destroy an enemy who never 
attacked, can do irreparable damage. 

These points are forcefully brought out in 
William Appleman Williams's essay, 
"American Intervention in Russia: 1917-
1920." 

Williams's thesis is that the American 
approach to world affairs was more or less 
"codified" by 1900. Expansionist poli-
ticians and businessmen, educated in a 
generation of laissez-faire capitalism, 
promulgated the "free-market-free-men" 
doctrine: human freedom was to be 
achieved through the operation of free 
markets. Not "Empire and annexation," 
but the "Open Door" became the slogan 
of American foreign policy. Pragmatically, 
the "Open Door" allowed the vast eco-
nomic power of the United States and 
European countries to penetrate under-
developed societies and control them as 
thoroughly, for economic purposes, as 
any overt Empire. Thus Hans Morganthau 
describes our traditional policy toward 
China as one which favors "what you 
might call freedom of competition with 
regard to the exploitation of China." In 
1917, this fundamental American policy, 
a central tenet of-Wilsonian liberalism, was 
confronted with the Bolshevik Revolu-
tion, which challenged both its practice of 
free markets and its central premise, that 
capitalism produced free men. The out-
come of that confrontation, Williams 
argues, was a direct result of the dominant 
American ideology; it also set the terms of 
international relations for the twentieth 
century. 

Within this general framework, Wil-
liams uses three levels of historical analysis 
to explain the American reaction to the 
Russian Revolution. First, he sketches the 
ideological background of the American 
leaders: their commitment to free enter-
prise, their hatred of socialism and their 
conviction that the national interest was 
best served by using government power 
to advance American economic interests. 
On a second level, he shows how the 
orthodox American ideology affected the 
government's perception of the Bolsheviks. 
Wilson's ideals included the right to "self-
determination," but only within the 
limits of free enterprise and constitutional 
government as conceived by the West. 
There was no question of the Bolsheviks' 
hostility to this system. Nor was there 
any question of Washington's hostility to 
the Bolsheviks. Wilson and his Secretary 
of State, Robert Lansing, did not consider, 
even briefly, the possibility of a temporary 
alliance with Lenin, even though there is 
evidence that the Bolsheviks were willing 
to keep up some pressure on Germany on 
the eastern front. Despite important 
military needs in France which made an 
alliance with the Bolsheviks advantageous, 
the only question Wilson considered con-
cerning the Russian Revolution was how 
best to defeat it. 

On a third level, Williams attempts to 
explain specific historical events in terms 
of his general analysis: that the United 
States opposed the Russian Revolution 
primarily because it challenged the prin-
ciple of private property, and hence was 
a threat both to the American concept of 
freedom and to American economic and 
political interests. There is much evidence 
that American policymakers actually 
thought about the Russian Revolution in 
these terms. In early December, 1917, 
Lansing castigated the Bolsheviks as 
"dangerous idealists" who did not believe 
in nationality and private property, and 
then advised Wilson to pursue a policy 
of breaking the Bolsheviks by supporting 
"a military dictatorship backed by loyal 
disciplined troops." 

On the basis of this and similar evidence, 
Williams argues that by December, 1917, 
a few weeks after the Bolshevik Revolu-
tion, Wilson had made a decision to 
oppose the Bolsheviks as social revolu-
tionaries with all the means he could 
spare. Wilson's hesitation over the next 
few months is interpreted as a result of 
his inability to resolve two crucial and 
related problems. The first was a strategic 
question: would direct foreign intervention 
unite the Russian people behind the 
Bolsheviks and thus undermine the very 
aim of the policy, the defeat of the 
revolution? The second was a moral 
dilemma: how could Wilson reconcile 
his deep moral and political aversion to the 
Bolsheviks with his deep commitment to 
the ideal of self-determination? 

The eventual solution found by Wilson 
and his advisers was to create a myth 
which bas influenced official American 
thinking for most of this century. An 
attack on the Bolsheviks meant interfer-
ing in inter-nal Russian affairs and trans-
gressing the right to self-determination; 
to smother these embarrassing problems, 
the American government simply defined 
them away. The Bolsheviks were German 
agents and were trying to impose a foreign 
political domination on the Russian 
people. The presence of various bands of 
Czech and German soldiers in Siberia 
and the existence of supply depots at the 
Arctic ports served as additional flimsy 
pretexts for Allied intervention. Thus 
under both the general war policy against 
Germany, and to protect the Russian right 
to self-determination, Wilson was justified 
in attacking the Bolsheviks. The internal 
revolution, arising out of circumstances 
and doctrine, was presented to the Ameri-
can people as an external"invasion," a 
subtle case of "aggression" to be met with 
the moral and military force of the 
democracies. 

Williams's necessarily brief sketch of 
the actual conferences, dispatches and 
decisions contrasts sharply with the 
detailed account presented in George F. 
Kennan's two-volume history, Soviet-
American Relations 1917-1920, which 
covers the same period and interprets the 
same evidence. Kennan's work gives the 
impression of chaos not only in Russia 
but in Washington as well. Far from 
deciding to oppose the Bolsheviks on any 
grounds, Kennan implies that Wilson was 
drawn into intervention by the force of 
events. Isolated by bad communications 
and by his own maddening uncertainty, 
Wilson left his representatives in Russia to 
act without guidance, and then made his 
own policy in a vacuum. The actual 
decision to intervene was not a conscious 
plan to crush a social revolution, nor was 
the public carefully deceived with 
distorted information. The whole 
situation radiated distortion, and Wilson 
merely followed the path of least 
resistance. 

Lansing and the President were 
partly the victims of misinformation 
... [and] one senses that their 
vulnerability to this information was 
enhanced by the difficult position in 
which they found themselves. For men 
unwilling to face up to the awkward 
reality of Soviet power but desperately 
anxious to find a means of escape from 
the endless importunities of the Allied 
governments and of public opinion 
that they "do something" about Russia, 
the thesis that the Czechs, an Allied 
force, found themselves opposed in 
Siberia by [German forces] came as


--- Page 12 ---

121 The New Journal! February 18 ,1968 
the perfect answer to all perplexities. 
It was human-if not entirely 
justifiable-that they should have 
aU owed themselves to be convinced of 
the validity of this thesis, and should 
have sponsored it before the world. 

Kennan's explanation of the decision 
to intervene is based on his deep im-
mersion in the documents and dis-
patches of the period. Unfortunately, 
it reads like an abstract summary of those 
documents, and by simultaneously 
abstracting from them and neglecting 
their historical context, Kennan distorts 
their meaning. Why were Lansing and 
Wilson so unwilling to "face up to" the 
reality of Soviet power? Why were these 
ordinarily shrewd men, successful in 
the rough competition of law and politics, 
so willing to accept unreliable information 
and to believe in the illusion (also dear 
to the hearts of Presidents Truman, 
Eisenhower, Kennedy, and Johnson) that 
the Russian people (among others) 
would arise with a spontaneous feeling of 
anti-communism as soon as the armed 
forces of Western democracy made their 
appearance on the scene? What were the 
ideas of Wilson and Lansing, and how 
did they affect their handling of the 
situation? Kennan hardly touches on 
these matt~s. In his epilogue Kennan 
describes the intervention as one of the 
worst mistakes in American diplomatic 
history. But his explanation of this 
colossal failure is curiously unsatisfying: 
"the deficiencies of the American political 
system," the "hysteria of militancy" of 
World War I America, the "congenital 
shallowness" of official Washington's 
approach to world policy. All of these 
"explanations" raise more questions than 
they answer, and none casts any light on 
why the American government ignored 
a whole spectrum of possibilities and 
concentrated, with a single-minded if 
badly organized purpose, on giving effect 
to its hostility to the Bolshevik regime. 

The effect of Williams's analysis is to 
extend the historical framework of the 
Cold War and the war in Vietnam much 
further back in time than most historians 
would consider relevant. In Williams's 
terms, America's commitment to suppress 
social revolutions in the name of freedom 
was not first made in 1947 with the 
announcement of the Truman Doctrine 
and aid to Greece. It began, rather, with 
Wilson's decision to intervene in Russia, 
which implicitly accepted "anti-Bolshe-
vism" as a valid principle of American 
foreign policy: that we had a right, or at 
least a duty, to crush political movements 
whose principles did not agree with our 
own. Internationally we made the first 
step in adopting a policy of "permanent 
counter-revolution," and in doing so 
reinforced the dangerous American 
tendency to equate freedom with similarity 
to the United States, and to define Utopia 
as a linear projection of the status quo. 

The facts in Williams's short essay do 
not "prove" his broad explanatory theory. 
Many are ambiguous, and a search of 
primary sources suggests that on many 
issues, Kennan's picture of enormous 
confusion and misinformation is more 
nearly correct than Williams's implication 
of hard-headed calculation. But the 
ambiguity and confusion do not "disprove" 
Williams's theory either-they simply 
suggest that many actors in the day-to-day 
events did not have their ideology con-
sciously in mind. The broad historical 
context of their actions, traced by Williams 
through quick sketches of economic, 
political and cultural developments, is 
crucial to any significant explanation. 
His essay provocatively adds a dimension 
to historical analysis which avoids the 
arbitrary and the abstract, and helps us to 
understand the origins of a painfully 
consistent American approach to world 
affairs. 

The next five essays in the collection 
trace the details of the evolution of Ameri-
can policy through the Second World 
War, the civil wars in Greece and China, 
and the war in Vietnam. One essay departs 
from the general theme of international 
conflict to look at an aspect of American 
domestic politics: Senator Taft's "conser-
vative critique'' of the early Cold War 
program. 

John Bagguley's "The World War and 
the Cold War;· like Deutscher's essay, is 
dedicated to destroying the myth of 
Russian aggression in Eastern Europe 
after World War II. He argues that the 
Soviet Union bore the brunt of the fighting 
throughout the war, and thus earned 
the right to a sphere of influence in 
Eastern Europe in the same way that the 
United States earned undisputed hege-
mony in the Pacific. The United States 
and Britain recognized Russia's right as 
late as October, 1944, when Churchill 
negotiated his famous "percentage 
partition" of the Balkans. Stalin honored 
the agreement, giving Britain a free hand 
to crush the left-wing Greek resistance 
movement. But after President Roosevelt's 
death, the "hard-liners" in Washington 
and London mounted a strong diplomatic 
attack to deprive the Soviet Union of its 
assigned share. 

Unfortunately, Bagguley neglects the 
larger historical framework which 
Williams used in analyzing Wilson's 
intervention, and which Horowitz set 
forth as the unorthodox approach of the 
collection. Bagguley's investigation of 
war-time policies is a substantial piece of 
historical research, and it would be unfair 
to criticize him for not covering American 
decision-making as well. But be does 
advance an explanation of why the 
United States launched its diplomatic 
attack on Soviet interests: that we wanted 
to deprive Russia of her slice of the pie, 
and that we used the rhetoric of "no 
spheres of influence" to serve that end. 
The metaphor of three men quarreling 
over the spoils may be a fair summary of 
much of this history, but it leaves too 
many problems unresolved. Like Kennan's 
explanation that Wilson "bad to do some-
thing" about the Bolsheviks, it begs the 
question of why the Americans felt 
threatened by Russia, and why the "some-
thing," in Wilson's case, was military 
intervention, or. in Truman's case, diplo-
matic attack. 

A similar failing is apparent in Henry 
W. Berger's "A Conservative Critique of 
Containment: Senator Taft on the Early 
Cold War Program." Taft opposed parts 
of Truman's policy because be did not 
share the government's ill-founded fear 
of imminent Soviet attack, and because he 
wanted to avoid the heavy taxes on Ameri-
can free enterprise required by expensive 
government programs. But he, like 
Truman, identified freedom with free 
enterprise, and emphatically included 
both in his conception of the national 
interest. Thus he supported the Marshall 
Plan as an altruistic gift in the American 
tradition, and also because it "might help 
us in the battle against Communism." 
There is nothing in the evidence Berger



**Containment and Revolution: The American Experience**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
131 The New Journal I February 18, 1968 
presents which suggests that Taft would 
DOt have supported a "counter-insurgency" 
dfort if be felt American economic inter-
ests or prestige were sufficiently at stake. 
Todd Gitlin's "Counter-Insurgency: 
Myth and Reality in Greece" and John 
Oittling's "The Origins of China's Foreign 
Policy" continue the approach of raising 
disturbing evidence against orthodox 
history and elucidating what might have 
been the "real purpose" of American 
policy. Both authors question the Ameri-
can thesis that the Greek guerrillas and 
Chinese communists were fanatic radicals, 
ioftexibly bent on destroying all democracy 
and educated people, opposing the United 
States and serving the wishes of the 
Soviet Union. Close examination in both 
cases suggests that the revolutionaries 
were flexible, often making considerable 
efforts to win the good will of the United 
States, and that it was the American (and 
in Greece, the British) who reacted with 
the doginatic hostility and cruel violence 
which is supposed to characterize our 
enemies. 

Gitlin identifies several myths which 
surround the history of the Greek civil 
war. They include the ideas that the Greek 
JUel'rillas were fanatic terrorists under 
Stalin's control; that they refused any 
coalition or compromise with other Greek 
poops; and that they began and prolonged 
the civil war, thus denying to Greece 
the benefits of peaceful and progressive 
reform. By marshalling a host of facts 
and judgments (some by British officers 
themselves), Gitlin refutes each myth in 
turn. He further establishes that terror 
was used first and most extensively by the 
British and right-wing Greek forces, and 
that this military attack forced the Greek 
Resistance to transform itself from a 
popular, multi-party movement into a 
defensive, disciplined band with its own 
means of terror. Thus, the British, sup-
ported by the Americans, played a classic 
theme in Cold War history: projecting 
tbe fear of what the enemy might do as a 
l'elponse to Western action as a description 
of what be was actually doing, thus 
iuatifying the attack and generating the 
lllticipated response. 

John Gittings makes a similar case in 
Ida analysis of the origins of China's 
!'Oticy toward the United States and the 
Soviet Union. Standard American 
t history holds that the Chinese Communists 
were inflexibly committed to their role as 
JI'IPpets of Russia; thus the United States 
bad "no choice" but to quarantine the 
IDainland and support Chiang Kai-shek. 
Gittings argues that the Chinese Commu-
lliat policy toward the United States was 
Dot "inevitable," but evolved mainly as a 
reaction to the history of American 
Qploitation and the reality of American 
holtmty. As early as August, 1949, 
Secretary of State Acheson had concluded 
lbat although the Communists bad the 
IUpport of the Chinese people, they were 
'torlting "in the interests of a foreign 
~er," and hence it was only a matter of 
~before the Chinese people would 
hie against the foreign yoke. In any 
Clle. the acid test for the Americans 
..._bow the Communists treated 
~go 
property interests"-a forgone 
CIGIIclusion in a land which had suffered 
lara century under exploitation in the 
lillie of "free trade." The parallels with 
~·s 
attitude toward the Bolsheviks 
-obvious. The myth of foreign control, 
~-illusion that the people love only a 
..._enterprise system, the primary 
concern with private property-these 
elements in the American position doomed 
an already very difficult relationship. 

Richard Morrock's "Revolution and 
Intervention in Vietnam" applies the 
analysis sketched by Horowitz and 
developed by Williams to the current war 
in Vietnam. Once again, the evidence is 
interpreted to attack the orthodox liberal 
history and to establish that the United 
States did not enter Vietnam because of a 
mistake, but as a result of a conscious 
definition and calculation of the national 
interest. 

The 1\beral story contains the elements 
first presented by Woodrow Wilson in 
1917-18 and developed in our policies 
toward Greece, China, Guatemala, Cuba 
and the Dominican Republic. Once again 
we are told of a struggling parliamentary 
democracy (Diem), menaced by armed 
terrorists acting in the interests of a 
foreign power. Once again the United 
States aids the beleaguered defender of 
freedom and free enterprise, and then 
regretfully intervenes herself. The war 
goes badly; perhaps our original strategy 
was a mistake. The liberals devote 
themselves to proposing various compro-
mises which would allow President 
Johnson to negotiate this way out. 

Morrock's analysis, based on facts the 
liberals smother and on an historical 
context they ignore, interprets the situation 
very differently. Morrock describes the 
strong Viet Minh position in the South in 
1954, and the widespread abolition of 
landlordism in the Mekong delta which 
bad occured under their power. Supported 
by the United States, Diem attacked the 
Viet Minh and their accomplishments. 
Between 1955 and 1959 Diem generated a 
savage repression of the Viet Minh and 
their sympathizers, complete with 
informers, secret police, mass meetings 
denouncing the enemy and other 
paraphernalia of totalitarianism. At the 
same time, Diem implemented a "land 
reform" plan drawn up by American 
professor Wolf Ladejinsky. The plan 
called for a severe reduction of rents and 
strict limitations on loan interest and 
landholding. Aside from problems of 
enforcement, this superficially pro-
gressive plan suffered from a grave defect: 
under the guise of "regulating" land-
lordism, it was actually re-establishing the 
system. For the Viet Minh had broken the 
old system, and Diem's so-called reforms 
meant "reducing" rents which the Viet 
Minh had abolished, selling land which 
the Viet Minh had given away and 
re-establishing estates which the Viet 
Minh had broken up. 

It should be no surprise that the 
Vietnamese peasants, led by Viet Minh 
cadres, resisted this attempt to undo social 
change in the countryside. The American 
officials who decided to increase aid to 
Diem, and then to intervene with Ameri-
can troops, knew that their goal was to 
crush what was primarily an attempt to 
defend and extend a domestic revolution. 
As in the case of the Russian intervention, 
the myth of "foreign aggression" was 
used to mislead the American people and 
to justify an attack on North Vietnam. 

Far from regarding the long, expensive 
war as a "mistake," the majority of the 
American government and military 
welcomed the opportunity to crush a 
guerrilla movement, destroy the industrial 
capacity of a new communist state, 
frighten China and all potential revolu-
tionaries, and consolidate the American 
hold on the rest of Southeast Asia. Far 
from anxiously searching for a "way out," 
the American government has avoided 
negotiations and has set conditions which 
make negotiations impossible. 

The main condition is simply that there 
should be no communist power in South 
Vietnam, even in those areas which have 
almost never been under the control of 
the Saigon government. For Johnson and 
Rusk, like Wilson and Lansing before 
them, cannot face up to the "awkward 
reality" of communist power. The 
communists are by definition illegitimate, 
because they do not hold American ideas 
about elections and 'private property. 
They are to be treated not as a political 
force, but as outlaws, as "germs" to be 
eradicated from the body politic. Many 
American officials and professors use such 
language, which suggests that "negotia-
tions" can mean only victory on American 
terms. 

The usual liberal response to the 
radical analysis contained in Morrock's 
essay and in most of the Horowitz 
collection is that the United States is not 
opposed to social reform or even to social 
revolution. What we are really opposing 
in Vietnam, the liberals say, is the threat 
of the violent overthrow of the established 
government. In other words, the United 
States stands by its pledge not to interfere 
with the substantive policies of any 
nation, but we will guarantee every 
nation's right to democratic procedure, 
embodied in "fair elections and freedom 
from foreign influence." 

The history of our policy in this century 
indicates that this theory is another 
distorted myth. Lansing claimed to 
oppose the Bolsheviks because they 
violated the democratic process; but this 
chosen defender of democracy was "a 
military dictator backed by loyal disci-
plined troops." We have consistently 
approved, supported and even engineered 
violent political changes which brought 
right-wing governments to power: Greece 
in 1947, Guatemala in 1954, Brazil in 
1964, Santo Domingo in 1965, Greece in 
1967, Vietnam now. We have always 
justified such actions by claiming that it 
was necessary to "restore law and order" 
so that the democratic process could work 
again. In other words, right-wing govern-
ments are always given the benefit of the 
doubt; decades of dictatorship will 
"eventually" yield to democracy. Left-
wing movements are never given such 
grace; they must adhere to the full spec-
trum of American democratic values 
(including free enterprise) or be immedi-
ately branded as a mortal enemy. As our 
role in the 1954 coup in Guatemala shows, 
even an established left-wing government 
with genuine popular support is not 
immune from hostile American attention. 

The essays in Containment and Revolu-
tion undermine the liberal faith in the 
Cold War because they interpret our worst 
"mistakes" as evidence of our real nature. 
The "blunders" are always in one direc-
tion: "misinformation" about left-wing 
movements, massive diplomatic and 
military attack where moderation might 
have led to different and happier results. 
Woodrow Wilson and Senator Taft would 
have been more honest. We are fighting 
communism because our way of life de-
pens on the strength of our free enterprise, 
and on our citizens' knowledge that we 
shall never allow alternative, threatening 
systems to extend themselves without a 
bitter fight. The only remaining questions 
are: does the American social system re-
quire this approach to world affairs? H not,


**Henry IV at Yale**
**Author: Douglas Cole**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

continued from page 2 
play into such heightened prominence that 
it very nearly smothers the sense of tragic 
loss and bitter reflection that defines the 
agony of the protagonist and renders in-
telligible the mad confusion of identity 
and of motive that complicates the 
grotesque plot. Here there is no question, 
as in certain past productions, of any 
pretentious wrenclting into a questionable 
"relevance." Pirandello's underlying in-
sights into the sufferings of the self-
conscious personality are relevant enough. 
It is more a question of balance and of tact. 

Carl Weber's direction appears to have 
been based on working assumptions which 
help to explain the texture of this produc-
tion. One assumption denotes the play as 
a tragic farce (a favorite genre in a world 
inclined to affix the same label to life). 
Another categorizes the protagonist as a 
"schizoid individual," to borrow Weber's 
phrase in his program note. The director 
sees this case of schizophrenia as an image 
of a schizophrenic world disrupted and 
dismayed by the experience of the first 
World War and the deluded ideals of a 
rising fascism. The diagnosis of schizo-
phrenia leads in turn to an assumption 
about the role of Henry IV: it is more 
lunatic than imperial. The main character, 
not sane at base, decides to maintain an 
artificial identity that manifests itself in 
the incoherent ravings and visibly ludi-
crous posturings of a madman rather than 
in the imperial pride and humiliations 
of the German Emperor Henry IV. 

To play up the potentially farcical in 
Pirandello's tragedy is to convert what 
Pirandello called "humor"-the ironic 
perception of life's unflattering contradic-
tions-into more superficial comic "busi-
ness." The temptation is hard to resist, 
especially in the opening scenes of the first 
act, which take an awkward length of time 
to piece together the story of the past 
· accident responsible for the protagonist's 
lapse into the illusion that he is Henry IV. 
Weber has chosen to sketch in the sup-
porting characters of the play in broadly 
comic strokes, accenting the vanity and 
sense of self-importance of the Doctor, 
Belcredi and Matilda. The Countess and 
her lover spat in the familiar manner of the 
mutually irritating old couple, and Bel-
credi directs his sarcastic arrogance toward 
the Doctor as well. The "I know best" 
attitudes which typify Pirandello's busy-
bodies are thus heightened into a three-
way contest for psychological supremacy. 

The raised eyebrows, grimaces, gestures of 
contempt or indifference take on such 
comic importance that one is likely to 
forget what the discourse is all about. 
Belcredi's taunting wit and aristocratic 
nonchalance are rendered with speciaJ 
skill by Stacy Keach, whose comic timing 
and playing to the audience give a neces-
sary edge of superiority to the character 
who is later moved into a relationship of 
deeper antagonism toward the central 
figure. But the initial tone established by 
the comic psychological sparring of the 
early scenes, and continued almost without 
change in the opening scene of Act II, 
tends to dominate audience response to 
such an extent that, when Henry confronts 
the others, the laughter continues and 
deeper ironies are missed. It is amusing to 
see the know-it-ails taken off guard by the 
antic emperor, but in focusing on their 
superficial discomfiture the presentation 
blurs the more radicaJJy disturbing lines 
of Henry's addresses to them. The hectic 
pace with which Haigh speeds through 
the speeches of his initial scene somehow 
contributes to the farcical tempo and also 
makes those speeches more opaque than 
they ought to be. It is only toward the 
end of that act, when Henry points to his 
portrait and begs to be set free from it, that 
the significant depths of his disturbance 
are revealed; the earlier glimpses have 
been obscured by the dazzling visual im-
pact of an animated ikon reducing his 
frightened audience to momentary in-
security and dismay. 

It is the last scene of the play, how-
ever, which is in danger of losing most 
of its ironic point under the influence of 
comic tone. Henry seems to have borrowed 
some of Belcredi's sarcasm in that scene 
when he rails at the Doctor, and depicts 
the alternatives of re-entering the modem 
world. But the more he sounds like Bel-
credi the less trenchant his insights be-
come. When he accuses life "out there" of 
being no more than a masquerade, there 
is more than sarcasm at stake. When he 
loses control of himself, embraces Frida 
and stabs Belcredi, there should be no 
room for any laughter other than his own. 
And if the audience does laugh as the 
wounded Belcredi is dragged away, it is 
partly because they have been conditioned 
earlier to relish the discomfiture of the 
vain, self-assured joker. 

Weber's diagnosis of schizophrenia may 
not agree with all the symptoms Pirandello 
has provided for his central figure, but it 
does help to explain some of the produc-
tion's more startling visual effects. One 
is tempted, of course, to see the use of 
the revolving stage as a kind of emblem 
for the split personality. The play opens 
with an unexpected shift of scene, and the 
thematics of deceptive appearances and 
disquieting uncertainties are suggested 
before a word of dialogue is uttered. 

Closer to the personality of Henry himself 
is the device of "split" blocking in the 
first confrontation scene. Belcredi and 
Matilda are set at opposite ends of the 
stage, and Henry lurches and stumbles 
between these two points as his mind 
moves from theme to theme. Weber's 
modification of Henry's costume in this 
first encounter also reflects a concern for r 
visualizing the dividedness of Henry's ego: 
instead of having him wear the sackcloth 
from the start, Weber has the servants 
help him into and out of it as his mood 
demands, accenting the restless uneasiness 
with which he is tormented even within 
the limits of the imperial role itself. 

One of the deeper sources of Henry's 
agony is his realization that in the twelve 
years of his unconscious madness he has 
been cheated out of youth and out of love. 
He awakes to find not only his hair grown 
gray, but his whole inner being gray, 
decayed, finished. He makes that torment 
explicit in the final act, and its force is 
what then leads so directly to the impulse 
that brings on the castastrophe. But when 
that statement is made, Robert Taylor's set 
also takes on a new meaning: its gray and 
shabby tones are the reOection of Henry's 
"real" identity; the medieval trappings 
which lend it some color and life are the 
exact counterpart of Henry's costume role 
as emperor. Color, life, vitality come onlY 
by way of the mask. Thorn Peterson's 
costuming echoes and reinforces the 
theme. The modem world's costume is 
formal black and white, or in the case of 
Frida's:dress, a neutral and pallid gray. 
The medieval costumes provide the visual 
color and warmth that are so lacking bOtb 
on and under the surface of the modern· 
world characters. Kathleen Widdoes as 
Frida puts life and meaning into an em-


**Letter to the Editors**
**Author: Milton Shaw**
**Page number(s): 15**

Letters 
to the Editors: 
'be advertisement in support of Coffin's 
ltand on Vietnam which appeared in the 
laltissue of The New Journal (February 4, 
~)was, I suppose, intended to bring 
~~~der to the conclusion that we 
:-uadn't be in Vietnam. It is hard to 
~how 
anyone could possibly think 
-•Uch an article could have any effect 
~verona rational human being; 
f!dnk this statement could refer to all 
~brought up against government 
talicy by our mob of liberals . 

In building up the image of inhuman, 
lilllaloraJ conduct in the war in Vietnam, 
these critics of course miss the entire point. 
War will always be essentially immoral; 
in the heat of battle on the personal level 
it would take a saint to react only ration-
ally. It is no real news that atrocities are 
committed every day in Vietnam; it takes 
only a nodding acquaintance with human 
nature to realize this fact. I agree with the 
article that work can be done to improve 
the situation. Perhaps people from the 
Yale community who are concerned with 
this problem can enter the service and 
bring about a minor revolution in policy. 

Then again, however, some people 
don't think we should be in Vietnam. 
They don't seem to see that the immature 
communism of China and North Vietnam 
may be a real threat to our way of life. 
Have they ever documented their opinions 
with facts or special knowledge? If they do 
have such proof in support of their at-
titudes, why don't they voice it, rather than 
appealing to the emotions, concentrating 
on such peripheral (though important) 
matters as the atrocities committed in 
Vietnam? 

If indeed this is all they are really 
complaining about, wouldn't it be better 
to encourage young men of the Yale 
community to bring more reason into this 
war by enlisting as officers, rather than 
influence them to resist? One would hope 
that our liberals are capable of presenting 
some rational arguments for their opinions 
in the future. 

Milton Shaw 
Yale College 


Classifieds 
20¢per word 
Ads may be mailed or telephoned to: 
William M. Burstein 
544 Yale Station 
New Haven, Conn. 06520 
776-2551 
Monday- Thursday 7-8 p.m. 

WHEN PARABOLAS SWING, MASSES 
SMALL OSCILLATE. 
Buttamunchy fan with duplicate balloon cards 
seeks same. Object: possible trades. 776-2551. 

On Tuesday, February 6, General Hershey 
described student protestors of the Vietnam 
war as "a bunch of foul-mouthed, dirty-nosed 
kids." Just thought you ought to know. 

Obtain a COLLEGE DEGREE in your spare 
time! Details from: Office of Admissions, 
Yale University. 

I will do anything for money. Anything. 
865-5634. 

FIGURE ART STUDIO. Camera hobbyists 
welcome. 420 Temple Street, New Haven. 
787-7194. 

ONE OF MY LEGS IS REAL. 

DON'T SAY "NO ONE CARES"-someone 
does-dial a blessing any hour. 624-5183. 

MISS BILL WATSON? Try Radio Peking! 
7 P.M.: 17.68, 15.06 mcs.; 8 P.M.: 17.68, 
15.06, 11.945, 9.78, 7.12 mcs.; 9 P.M.: 17.68, 
15.06, 11.945 mcs. 

Yale Film Society 
A series of four shows 
Friday, February 16 
Introduction: 3 short films 
Alan Resnals' NIGHT AND FOG (1955) 
Chris Marker's THE KOUMIKO MYSTERY (1964) 
Jean Rouch's AU PAYS DE MAGES NOIRS (1958) 
Saturday, February 17 
Chris Marker's LE JOLI MAl (1961) 
Paris during the Algerian Crisis 
TIHIE FRENCIHI 
NEW WAVE 
PART I 
Friday, February 23 
THE ELUSIVE CORPORAL (1961) 
Jean Renoir's moving plea for freedom 
Saturday, February 24 
MURIEL (1963) 
Resnais' most haunting, chilling film 
Also, two special showings 
Tuesday, February 20 
Marcel Carne's CHILDREN OF PARADISE 
Tuesday, February 27 
Jean Renoir's RULES OF THE GAME 

New Haven's Leading ~Art' Theatres 
THE LINCOLN 
Nightly From 6:30 
MIKE NICHOLS' 
THE 
GRADUATE 
Favored for All 
Academy Awards 

THE CROWN 
Open D•ily •t 12:45 
JAMES JOYCE'S 
ULYSSES 
ORIGINAL VERSION 
As Shown For $5.50 
The Most Faithful 
Film Ever Madel 

THE LARGEST LP SELECTION IN CONNECTICUT 
DISCOUNTS ON ALL RECORDS 
NEW HAYEN'S ONLY COMPLETE RECORD SHOP 
COME IN AND BROWSE FREELY 
33 BROADWAY, NEW HAVEN, CONN., 7n-f3271 



**The 1968 Yale University Charities Drive**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 16**

The 1968 Yale University 
Charities Drive 
· 
offers a diversified approach 
to the urban crisis 
-
~ 
Favela Virginha-Acao Communitaria do Brazil, 
one of twelve agencies supported by YUCD 
Will you view or participate? 
February 12 to 16 in Yale College 
February 19 to 23 in the Graduate Departments 


Compliments of: 
Salts Fifth Avenue, Barrie Ltd., Ann Taylor Sportswear, Olivia's Restaurant 
