Publication date: April 2016
Volume: 48
Issue number: 5

**MASTHEAD:**
- editors-in-chief: elena saavedra buckley, isabelle taft
- managing editor: spencer bokat-lindell
- senior editors: sophie haigney, yi-ling liu, aaron mak, david rossler
- associate editors: ruby bilger, victorio cabrera, eliza fawcett, amelia nierenberg, aaron orbey, natalie yang
- copy editors: griffin brown, philippe chlenski, harry gray, rohan naik, douglas plume
- design editors: allison primak, ivy sanders schneider
- illustrators: alejandro nodarse, allison primak, ivy sanders schneider
- photo editors: elinor hills, jennifer lu
- web designer: mariah xu
- web developer: philippe chlenski
- members and directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelen, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Elizabeth Steig, Aliyya Swaby, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- points of departure - Chris Cappello
- points of departure - Lora Kelley
- points of departure - Rohan Naik
- snapshot - Isabelle Taft
- snapshot - Eleanor Womack
- profile - Maya Averbuch
- personal essay - Hayley Byrnes
- critical angle - Eshe Sherley
- feature - Sebi Medina-Tayac
- endnote - Elena Saavedra Buckley


**Title: points of departure**
**Author: Chris Cappello**
**Page number(s): 4**
AUTHENTICITY ON TAP


**Author: Lora Kelley**
YOU ARE WHAT YOU WEAR


**Author: Rohan Naik**
IT TAKES A TEMPLE


**Title: snapshot**
**Author: Isabelle Taft**
**Page number(s): 10**
VANISHING WINCHESTER — An urban explorer documents the former gun factory before it transforms


**Author: Eleanor Womack**
**Page number(s): 14**
LET’S TALK ABOUT SPEECH — A flashy “free speech debate” takes the stage


**Title: profile**
**Author: Maya Averbuch**
**Page number(s): 18**
THE MAGIC FOOT OF HONDO COLWICK — A prosthetics craftsman makes what he knows


**Title: personal essay**
**Author: Hayley Byrnes**
**Page number(s): 22**
ONE LITTLE ROOM, AN EVERYWHERE — Remembering what I wanted


**Title: critical angle**
**Author: Eshe Sherley**
**Page number(s): 26**
OF HOUSE AND HOME — A student activist finds her place in the history of Black organizing at Yale.


**Title: feature**
**Author: Sebi Medina-Tayac**
**Page number(s): 34**
TLAXCALA DREAMS OF NEW HAVEN — On stage, mothers find a hole in the border to visit their migrant children


**Title: endnote**
**Author: Elena Saavedra Buckley**
**Page number(s): 41**
WHAT’S IN A GAME — Finding New Haven in BORDERLANDS, pistol in hand



**Title: Point of Departure**
**Author: Chris Cappello**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 4
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
AUTHENTICITY ON TAP
P O I N T  O F  D E PA R T U R E
Can Three Sheets create a “gastrodive” for everyone?
Chris Cappello 
“Brunch hasn’t worked out for us, so we do lunch,” 
says Rick Seiden, founder of the New Haven bar and 
restaurant Three Sheets. Ed Turschmann, who co-owns 
the establishment with Seiden, pipes in to clarify. “The 
menu is the same.” The two men exchange a brief look, 
as though they have given away the game: what sep­
arates their bar from its peers is not offering but atti­
tude. Box 63 does brunch a few blocks down. So does 
Barracuda. But although a customer inclined towards 
day drinking can get a burger and a beer around noon 
on a Sunday at Three Sheets, no one’s going to call it 
brunch.

Both burly and Connecticut-born, Seiden and Tur­
schmann look like the kind of middle-aged men you 
wouldn’t want to fight, least of all in their own bar. 
When they founded Three Sheets in December 2013 
after the previous tenant, Elm Bar, closed up shop, they 
pledged to bring back the spirit of an older neighbor­
hood institution: Rudy’s Bar and Grille, which occu­
pied their location at 372 Elm Street for seventy-six 
years before moving to a new space on Chapel. “It felt 
like the local place that anybody could go,” Seiden says 
of Rudy’s. “Grad students, fishermen, people from the 
hospital. The place that everybody felt comfortable 
coming into.”

When Rudy’s changed location in 2011, it became a 
“gastropub”—a term, Seiden insists, that doesn’t apply 
to Three Sheets. “That has a completely different con­
notation,” he adds, when asked how his bar’s preferred 
label,“gastrodive,” differs. “This place still has the feel 
of a local dive bar, but the food that comes out of it is 
far superior.” 

With its blue and red neon sign, grimy brick exte­
rior, and dark-tinted windows, Three Sheets certainly 
looks like a dive. Seiden and Turschmann, who were 
both employed in the commercial fishing industry for 
decades, chose the name from an old sailor’s phrase 
for drunkenness—“three sheets to the wind.” Above 
an open doorway, a Pabst Blue Ribbon sign advertises 
“COLD BEER.” There are no TVs. 

When I walk into Three Sheets on a weekday night, 
the atmosphere feels almost utopic. Seiden claims that 
Three Sheets draws both the “suit and tie crowd” and 
“the punk rock crowd.” Sure enough, I run into both 
as I sit at the bar. Next to me, a man with tattoos and 
gauges reads All The Light We Cannot See over a pint 
of stout. Two students in Yale apparel are doing home­
work on laptops at a side table. 
illustration 
ivy sanders schneider


---

APRIL 2016
 5
But other elements of the bar seem to contradict 
the owners’ claims to non-pretension. An illuminated 
screen shows Chef Kam Tom’s daily kitchen specials, 
which today feature something called a “butter burger” 
(twelve dollars, with beef from Four Mile River farm 
in Old Lyme, Connecticut). A wall-to-wall chalkboard, 
decked out with illustrations in the style of traditional 
military tattoos, displays an ever-changing slate of 
draught beers, most of which cost upwards of $6—
steep for a neighborhood like Dwight, and for an estab­
lishment that calls itself a dive. It’s unclear, as Three 
Sheets enters its third year of operations, whether it is 
defying the winds of change or sailing on them. 

—

When Seiden and Turschmann were regulars at the 
original Rudy’s in the early nineties, New Haven’s com­
mercial district looked different. On Broadway alone, 
you could catch a movie at York Square Cinemas, an 
independent theater, or browse for records at Cutler’s 
after grabbing a cheap meal at the Yankee Doodle. 
Now, your options are more limited—want to hit the 
Apple Store this afternoon? How about J. Crew?

The bar scene is different now, too. In 2013, the 
upscale pub Ordinary replaced Richter’s Bar, a Chapel 
Street dive that closed in 2011 after twenty-eight years. 
Last year, outcry over the closure of the Anchor—a 
College Street staple for over eighty years—led to a 
July 2015 proposal to reopen the bar under new man­
agement. The New Haven Register reports that the new 
Anchor will rebrand itself as an “upscale cocktail bar,” 
a far cry from its origins as a dive.

Although Three Sheets perhaps isn’t a traditional 
dive bar, its owners see their focus on craft beer and 
locally sourced food as part of their creative vision 
rather than the result of a city-wide trend towards the 
upscale. “I don’t think we’re part of that whole chang­
ing scene,” says Seiden. He prefers to think of the bar 
as an “off-Broadway” operation. 

The bar doesn’t feel upscale. “I like that Three Sheets 
has all this great stuff—a deep beer list, good food—but 
in an unpretentious space,” says Dan Michelson ’17, a 
Three Sheets regular. “The bartenders are friendly, the 
crowd is diverse, and everyone just gets along.” In the 
back room, I run into Jon Stone, a local singer-song­
writer who seems to be drawn to town-gown contact 
zones. Last year, at a WYBC-sponsored house show, 
Stone memorably instructed the crowd—roughly split 
between locals and Yalies—to “paint the floor with 
Yalie blood.”

No such rancor tonight. He alludes to an altercation 
at a show at Three Sheets a few weeks back—something 
involving an aggressive guy in a metal band who’d put 
back a few too many—but he’s hesitant to get specific. 
He’s moving to Philadelphia in a couple days, and for 
now, he just wants to drink beer and play pool, to savor 
his last moments as an Elm City resident. Three Sheets 
was the obvious choice for Stone’s impromptu send-
off. “It’s been real,” he’d posted on Facebook earlier 
that day. “I’ll be at Three Sheets tonight if you wanna 
hang.” 

Turschmann is in charge of the draught lines. Their 
sixteen spouts gleam under the bar light. “Sixteen lines 
is good,” he estimates. “I’d rather have twenty, but it’s 
enough.” He prides himself on providing a diverse 
selection, but he makes sure one beer is always avail­
able on tap: Sea Hag, an  IPA from Woodbridge, Con­
necticut. 

Why Sea Hag? Turschmann laughs. “That’s like the 
Budweiser of New Haven,” he says. “If you’re a bar in 
New Haven and you don’t have Sea Hag…” He trails 
off, rolling his eyes. “It’s a great local beer,” Seiden 
clarifies. “Everybody knows it in town, and everybody 
likes it, pretty much.” 

As I sip my pint of Sea Hag, I sense that Seiden’s 
statement resonates beyond the hoppy drink lapping 
at my glass’s brim. In its two and a half years at 372 
Elm Street, Three Sheets has carved out its own niche 
within New Haven’s fluctuating nightlife. And yet, 
Seiden and Turschmann’s hopes for a truly cross-class 
clientele elude them—it’s hard to imagine that the 
people drinking at Three Sheets represent most of New 
Haven. After all, a Sea Hag still runs you six dollars.
— Chris Cappello is a junior 
in Silliman College 
ALTHOUGH A CUSTOMER 
INCLINED TOWARDS 
DAY DRINKING CAN GET 
A BURGER AND A BEER 
AROUND NOON ON A 
SUNDAY AT THREE SHEETS, 
NO ONE’S GOING TO CALL 
IT BRUNCH.



**Title: You Are What You Wear**
**Author: Lora Kelley**
**Page number(s): 6**

 6
YOU ARE WHAT YOU WEAR
In an exhibit on Jewish identity, T-shirts become the canvas
Lora Kelley 
“Yiddish Players Club,” reads a white bro tank on 
a pink plastic hanger. Its label card defines a Yiddish 
Player as a “Dreamer. Hustler. Artist. Thinker. Leader. 
The ambassador of Yiddish Swag.” “Shalom, Y’all,” 
another shirt greets. “I <3 Jews,” reads another. It keeps 
going—college Hillel T-shirts, shirts with delicate 
Hebrew script, a racy tee with “Jews Do It for Eight 
Nights” printed over a menorah. These shirts make up 
the well-traveled art exhibition featured at the Ameri­
can Jewish Historical Society in New York this winter: 
“Shmattes.”

“Shmattes,” the Yiddish word for “rags” or “gar­
ments,” is the brainchild of Anne Grant DIV ’17. The 
nonprofit art show explores the semiotic value of Jew­
ish-themed T-shirts, focusing specifically on millen­
nial “culturally Jewish” identity. According to Grant, 
“T-shirts have a lot of data to give us about how Jews—
and non-Jews—are negotiating with contemporary Jew­
ish identity,” and also about how comfortable they feel 
broadcasting their heritage.

After moving to New Haven to work as an arts coor­
dinator at the Jewish Community Center, Grant linked 
up with the Joseph Slifka Center for Jewish Life at Yale 
to exhibit “Shmattes.” She worked closely with Slifka’s 
then-curator, Lucy Partman ’14, a current doctoral stu­
dent in art history at Princeton and an employee of the 
Jewish Museum in New York. With a couple of others 
at Slifka, Partman and Grant curated “T-shirt Talk: The 
Art of Reimagining Cultural Jewish Identity,” which fea­
tured close to seventy shirts and hung on Slifka’s walls 
in spring 2014. Then, once the shirts had congealed 
into a show, Grant named her project “Shmattes.” The 
collection has since traveled to Brown, the University 
of Virginia, and the American Jewish Historical Society 
in New York City.

Grant began collecting Jewish T-shirts a few years 
ago, branching off from her personal five-shirt collec­
tion (“One HellUVA Jew” reads one shirt she acquired 
while pursuing her bachelor’s degree in Jewish Stud­
ies at the University of Virginia). While at UVA, where 
she was involved with the Hillel (the campus center for 
Jewish life), she recalls, “I had a shirt that said ‘sleep 
with me’ from a fundraiser where you slept outside for 
charity. And I thought, ‘Wow, a Hillel is literally spon­
soring a T-shirt with a very explicit sexual reference, 
and not even a disguised reference.’” After getting a 
shirt with a drug reference from a very old Philadelphia 
delicatessen, she started to recognize a pattern and 
began gathering more shirts, on eBay and from friends. 
Today, her collection numbers 175 shirts. She displays 
sixty to eighty in each show.

Grant curates and choreographs “Shmattes” accord­
illustration ivy 
sanders schneider



**Title:  T-SHIRTS HAVE A LOT OF DATA TO GIVE US ABOUT HOW JEWS—AND NON-JEWS—ARE NEGOTIATING WITH CONTEMPORARY JEWISH IDENTITY,**
**Author: Lora Kelley**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
APRIL 2016
 7
ing to four main categories. First, T-shirts from univer­
sity Hillels. She owns thirty or forty of them. Then, cul­
tural appropriation: shirts that combine imagery from 
other cultures with Jewish themes. “I just was seeing 
so many T-shirts that were including rap references 
and hip hop slogans, and imitating the iconography of 
groups like the Wu-Tang Clan or Lil Wayne,” Grant 
explained. So shirts that say “Jew-Tang” or have images 
of Manischewitz wine with the message “Purple 
Drank” fall into this category. Third: self-aware shirts. 
A shirt in this section, as Grant explains, will “make 
its own utterance of itself” (for example, one red-and-
green shirt reading “Silent Nights Are Boring,” with a 
blue Star of David printed on it, is in this section). The 
connecting threads in this category are more concep­
tual than the others; it is less obvious, from the outside, 
how these shirts are linked.

Fourth and finally: “Did You Get It?” This section 
is comprised of T-shirts that demand inside religious 
knowledge. Grant gives no hints on her label cards. For 
example, a white ringer T-shirt with red-capped sleeves 
asks, “DID YOU…?” with a picture of a bench. To an 
unaware onlooker, the image is a puzzle, but a reli­
gious Jew would know that “benching” is a colloquial 
term for the Birkat Hamazon, an after-meal blessing in 
Orthodox Jewish households. For those who get it, this 
shirt can be a point of connection.

Although this last category focuses on observant 
Jews, Grant is generally more interested in the concept 
(and audience) of non-religious Jews who still engage 
and identify with being culturally Jewish. “If this group 
of people eats a cheeseburger, and eats prosciutto, 
and watches TV on Saturday, and they’re still really 
strongly identifying as Jewish,” she wonders about her 
culturally Jewish peers, “then what exactly defines 
them as Jewish?” Grant wants to spark discussion about 
how, even though some “cultural Jews” break Kosher 
laws (cheeseburgers and pork are not allowed) and 
watch TV on Saturdays (electronics are forbidden on 
Shabbat), they display their Judaism publicly in other 
ways—through certain shirts, for instance, which high­
light humorous aspects of Jewish life that have nothing 
to do with prayers.

The youthful, irreverent nature of “Shmattes” is a 
cornerstone—and perhaps a drawback—of the show. 
When “Shmattes” was displayed at Slifka, Partman 
recalled that, “People that were using [Slifka] for prayer 
were concerned, because some of the shirts had very 
explicit language.” One shirt apparently said the word 
“fuck” on it. There were complaints, and Partman and 
Grant ended up turning the offending shirts against the 
wall. One of Grant’s goals is to look at a distinctly mil­
lennial brand of cultural Judaism, so this controversy 
was only to be expected. She welcomes challenging 
shirts, and in fact is staging a show at Wesleyan this 
week that focuses on controversial or provocative Jew­
ish shirts.

Ari Kelman, a board member of the Shmattes non­
profit and the Jim Joseph Professor of Jewish Studies at 
Stanford, also noticed that many of Grant’s shirts focus 
on contemporary college life since 2010, even though 
Jewish T-shirts are neither a brand new nor a neces­
sarily youthful phenomenon. So he donated some of 
his old Jewish camp T-shirts to Shmattes partly to help 
“expand the story” that Shmattes was telling about Jew­
ish life.

Kelman notes, too, that plenty of adults with no con­
nection to college Hillels engage with cultural Juda­
ism through designing Jewish T-shirts. Their shirts, 
rather than emphasizing rap lyrics or frats, play on 
an inter-generational Jewish humor. Kelman’s friend 
Sarah Lefton, for example, created a shirt printed with 
three birch trees and the words “Yo Semite.” Copy­
ing a Yosemite shirt, this design cuts at a corner of 
culturally Jewish people above the twenty-something 
demographic Shmattes highlights. Stacey Abarbanel, 
another Shmattes board member, also runs a T-shirt 
company called “Jewnion Label” in Los Angeles.

Yale’s own LOX ET VERITAS shirt certainly plays 
to a collegiate crowd, and maybe also to students 
who don’t always project their religion through shirts. 
“Yeah, I think my ‘Lox et Veritas’ shirt is the only Jew­
ish T-shirt I own,” says Partman, laughing. As Kelman 
reflects, Jewish T-shirts “signal in a couple different 
directions to show people that you’re in the group.” 
Wearing a Jewish shirt, whether you’re a college kid or 
a middle-aged professor, signals an insider-ness and an 
access to Jewish life, that can be religious, cultural, or 
somewhere in between.
— Lora Kelley is a junior 
in Davenport College 
 8


**Title: IT TAKES A TEMPLE**
**Author: Rohan Naik**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

THE  NEW  JOURNAL
P O I N T  O F  D E PA R T U R E
One of the region’s only Hindu temples 
finds its footing in New Haven
Rohan Naik 
New Haven’s only Hindu temple, Shree Nathji 
Haveli, was once a banquet hall. Since opening in Octo­
ber 2010, the space has been converted into something 
of a haven for regional Hindus, who previously had to 
travel to New Jersey or New York to attend services. 
This is not uncommon for Hindu Americans; although 
I’m not particularly religious, my family often drove 
an hour to our temple during my childhood in Hous­
ton. We had no local center for cultural life like Shree 
Nathji Haveli, which offers six prayer services a day to 
an expanding three-hundred-person congregation, one 
of the four hundred temples in the United States that 
serve the seven tenth of one percent of the population 
that is Hindu, according to the Pew Research Center.

Prakash Bhai, meaning “brother Prakash” in Hindi, 
is a temple trustee. He has a soft-spoken enthusiasm, 
greying hair, and a mustache. When I visited the tem­
ple, he welcomed me into the interior, where statues 
and prayer spaces still clash with the rusty tables and 
chairs piled against the walls, remnants of the ban­
quet hall. The old main stage has been refurbished 
as a brightly adorned pulpit, where a statue of Shree 
Nathji—the younger manifestation of the Hindu deity 
Krishna—stands enveloped by white marble.

At a weekly Sunday Paathshala, Hindu education for 
children in the community, a wiry 7-year-old named 
Vikram stood on stage with his PowerPoint: “The Logic 
Behind Hinduism.” He presented in front of forty fid­
gety young peers, reciting information with little hesi­
tation. 

As Vikram spoke, Prakash Bhai praised the greater 
New Haven community’s response to the temple. He 
could only recall a single moment of strife in local 
relations. At an early zoning meeting, one community 
member called the temple a mosque, conflating Hin­
duism with Islam, a mistake that indicated ignorance 
at best and general xenophobia at worst. An awkward 
silence ensued, broken only when a temple representa­
tive corrected the misnomer.

“It’s the way it is,” he said, shrugging, when I asked 
him if he found the mistake offensive. It is likely not 
the first time it has happened, but locals are learning. 
Shree Nathji Haveli continues to host annual com­
munity meetings where representatives from the New 
Haven Police Department and the New Haven city 
government meet temple practitioners and explore the 
space. Prakash Bhai considers these meetings moments 
of genuine cultural exchange. 

Yet other community members, like Yash Agarwal, 
a New Haven resident and temple volunteer, do not 
share this optimism. He said, frowning, that Americans 
don’t understand Hinduism: “I can understand that 
they don’t want another religion to take over, but Hin­
duism isn’t about overtaking; it’s about learning about 
the good in all.” 

Part of Paathshala lessons attempt to prime the chil­
dren for challenging situations in Hindu life. Temple 
volunteers ask tough questions about how one should 
respond to a bully, or how, given today’s climate of ris­
ing Islamophobia, to explain the difference between 
Hinduism and Islam and the importance of learning 
about both religions. The question isn’t interested in 
the theological distinctions between the two faiths, but 
rather how one should explain those distinctions to 
someone else. 

“The kids are the ones that love coming,” said 
Prakash Bhai as he observed the scene. “They finish 
their chores just so they can come earlier.” Although 
Prakash Bhai seems to have a rosy picture of Hindu life 
in New Haven, his conviction in the weekly Paathshala 
lesson holds true. The kids are engaged. They race to 
ask questions, interrupting each other. 

—
But Shree Nathji Haveli is not just a children’s 
school. It also offers prayer sessions for adults and 
activities for the elderly, becoming a place for com­
munity socialization at the end of the week. Yet Shree 
Nathji Haveli has failed to attract local adolescent Hin­
dus: only two teenagers showed up to class, too few to 
continue funding the program. This frustrates Prakash 
Bhai. “Something has to be done,” he said, although he 
wasn’t quite sure what. 

This is a problem of the temple’s age. It is only six 
years old, meaning current teenagers have not grown 
up with the Shree Nathji Haveli community. Prakash 
Bhai is confident that the children enrolled in the cur­
rent Paathshala class will continue to attend as teen­
agers.

After Vikram ended his presentation, Prakash Bhai 
took the stage. He leaned into the microphone and 
announced that a temple-wide Easter egg hunt would 
be starting—now. 

Immediately, the old banquet hall erupted in chaotic 
screams and laughter as the children raced around the 
room, running into each other and their parents’ legs. 
Prakash Bhai smiled at my obvious confusion. Easter? 
“We’re part of America now,” he said. “This is our 
culture, too.” 

Even Vikram dropped his professional demeanor. 
He raced around the room, snatched an egg from 
below a table, and placed it at the feet of a statue of 
Shree Nathji.
— Rohan Naik is a sophomore in Ezra Stiles 
College. He is a copy editor of The New Journal. 




**Title: VANISHING WINCHESTER**
**Author: Isabelle Taft**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 10
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Bryan Buckley, a lanky 23-year-old wedding photog­
rapher and welder from New Bedford, Massachusetts, 
pulls into the parking lot of the Winchester Lofts in his 
red Volkswagen. He is not interested in the new loft 
apartments but in the decaying walls and boarded-up 
windows immediately adjacent to them. He wears a 
hoodie, jeans, and a baseball cap. His face is smooth 
and boyish. He takes out his phone and pulls up a sat­
ellite image of the block on which we’re parked, which 
shows the sections of collapsed roof and incongruous 
green foliage that first drew him to this spot. In this 
building, during World War II, New Haveners built 
the Nazi-defeating successors to the Winchester Model 
1873—“the gun that won the West.” 

Buckley is an urban explorer, or “urbexer”—a mem­
ber of an informal, global community of people who 
spend weekends and evenings visiting structures that 
are closed to the public. Some urbexers break into 
subway tunnels or onto rooftops, but Buckley falls into 
a more history-minded camp. He prefers abandoned 
landmarks like factories and mental asylums. He posts 
his photographs to his website, Instagram account, and 
Facebook page under the shared title Vanishing New 
England, and labels the photographs with hashtags like 
“#dark #decay #grime #newengland” so fellow urbexers 
can find them. He even deploys a bot to “Like” photos 
with urbex-related hashtags and encourage their post­
ers to follow his own account. In this niche post-indus­
trial economy, Buckley is a shrewd businessman.

He is only one of many who have visited the Win­
chester factory over the past decade and taken pho­
tographs of molding floors, busted urinals, an empty 
elevator shaft, and light shining hopefully through 
crumbling walls. In online spaces named Nostalgic 
Memoir, Abandonedforgotten, and Abandoned Con­
necticut a visual catalog of the factory’s past decade has 
steadily accumulated. UrbEx-style photographs of the 
factory have even graced the pages of this magazine, as 
a photo collage in 2012. 

From the photographs, you get the sense that when 
the factory doors closed in the early 1980s, history 
stopped. Time and the elements moved on by them­
selves, eroded paint and rusted metal with only the 
occasional graffiti artist for an audience. But in real­
ity, Winchester continued to evolve. In 2012, student 
financial services firm Higher One spent $46 million to 
open new offices in part of the building. In 2014, real 
estate company Forest City began leasing 158 apart­
ment units—the Winchester Lofts—with a marketing 
strategy heavy on history. The website claims that “at 
the intersection of past and present, genuine craft is 
evident in every element,” and promises a “feeling of 
authenticity … when you step into your apartment.” 

Soon, those same developers will begin construction 
on another two hundred apartment units, with an out­
door pool and a bocce court. When that happens, the 
Winchester Repeating Arms Factory’s brief but prolific 
second life as a New Haven urban exploration destina­
tion will come to a final close. Buckley is here to docu­
ment this liminal space, the fast-closing period of aban­
donment between the assembly lines, the jobs and the 
guns of the twentieth century, and the concrete-floor 
master bedrooms, the doggie bathtubs, and the pilates 
machines of the twenty-first. 

—
In its general outline, the story of the Winchester 
Repeating Arms Factory is distinctly American: hum­
ble beginnings, rapid expansion fueled by violence and 
machines, a labor force of immigrants, a triumphant 
peak at World War II, a decades-long afterglow, and 
then the steady decline of an economy that made many 
things, but mostly our image of ourselves.  

The factory was first built in 1870, two decades after 
its founder, Oliver Fisher Winchester, arrived in New 
Haven and entered the manufacturing business. The 
company established itself in 1866 with a repeating 
rifle that outpaced the competition and won fans the 


--- Page 11 ---
APRIL 2016
 11
world over. In 1908, the Hartford Courant reported 
that President Theodore Roosevelt ordered four differ­
ent types of rifles for a hunting trip in Africa. During 
World War I, European demand for rifles fed demand 
for labor at the area’s gun factories, including Win­
chester; in 1915, twelve thousand machinist positions 
had to be filled to churn out one hundred million dol­
lars’ worth of guns. “Everything booming in the Elm 
City,” said the headlines. 

Winchester’s workforce reached 21,000 people 
during World War II. Desperate to produce more guns, 
managers overrode the objections of white employees 
to hire African Americans, largely migrants from the 
South. Black newspapers from Atlanta to Chicago cov­
ered the development; for them, working in the factory 
was a victory not only for racial but also for economic 
justice. But the victory was short lived. The sum of all 
factory wages in the city peaked in 1954, and declined 
precipitously after that.  

For Winchester, part of the problem was peace. After 
Korea and Vietnam, by the late nineteen-seventies, 
the factory was losing millions of dollars every year. 
Its parent company, the Olin Corporation, demanded 
major productivity increases from workers, who went 
on strike in 1979. Olin responded by cutting jobs and 
production, shutting down large portions of the factory 
Debris covers the floor of a room in the former gun factory. 
Buckley posted this picture online with a slew of urbex hashtags. 
and sectioning them off as industrial ruins. 

Winchester was not an anomaly. From the nine­
teen-fifties on, factories across the country laid off 
workers and shut down the machines as management 
shifted production to the South or out of the states. By 
1997, ninety percent of the factory jobs that had existed 
in New Haven in 1954 had disappeared, according to 
Yale political scientist Douglas Rae in his book City: 
Urbanism and Its End. 

The ultimate end came in 2006, when the last two 
hundred workers were laid off and gun production 
ceased forever. The small swath of the Newhallville 
factory then still in operation closed, and the machines 
were auctioned off. On March 31, 2006, New Haven 
made Winchester rifles. On April 1, 2006, it didn’t. 

Buckley pulls out his camera and tripod from the 
VW trunk. A woman and her dog walk into the lofts. 
No one seems to notice as we march across the park­
ing lot towards the boarded-up windows. The ground 
is sandy and littered with cans of Budweiser, glass 
Starbucks Frappuccino bottles, and glossy Fritos bags. 
We turn right at the corner of the building and find a 
red door, a few feet off the ground, with a wood pallet 
leaned against it serving as a ladder. We climb up and 
into the Winchester Repeating Arms Factory. 
#firearms #urbanexploration #urbex #M
sachusetts #newengland #dark #decay 
bexusa #urbandecay #deathofindustry #
dustry #total_abandoned #mold #collap
#architecture #woodwork #doors #vanis
ngnewengland #loves_decay #connetic


--- Page 12 ---
 12
“Easy,” Buckley says.

The size of the space is jarring; somehow from out­
side the abandonment seems more contained. There 
is a faint trickling sound—the recent snow melting 
into the puddles on the floor. The water laps against 
moss and a grey, flattened shoe. A few pairs of newer, 
cleaner shoes are arranged in tidy rows away from the 
water, perhaps by someone who has no other place to 
put them. 

Both nature and shelter seekers are reclaiming the 
space. But aside from the flora and refuse, Winchester 
is mostly vacant, one of the emptier abandoned build­
ings Buckley has seen. He’s been in offices where 
typewriters still sit on the desks, factories whose break 
rooms still look just as they did on the last day of opera­
tion. What is left behind here is valueless: descriptions 
of gun parts taped onto the walls as guides for employ­
ees, or, in a bathroom piled with crumbling porcelain, 
a paper towel dispenser from which brown paper still 
extends. 

Buckley approaches the urban exploration process 
systematically, aiming to cover every room of every 
site he visits. He’s returned to his favorite spots in New 
Bedford several times over, driven partly, it seems, by a 
desire to claim them. 

 “You want to find places no one has found,” he said. 
“It’s very similar to, like, graffiti in a way. I don’t like 
graffiti artists because they destroy these places. But 
they like to tag their name, show that they’ve been 
there, and we like to take photos and post them online 
to show that we’ve been there.”

This is the kind of voracity—collecting ruined places 
like badges—that some find a troubling aspect of urban 
exploration. The destruction of livelihoods enabled 
this weekend excursion, and there was little trace left 
of the people who toiled here for years as we happily 
snapped pictures. 

In an essay in Guernica in 2011, Wayne State Univer­
sity English professor John Patrick Leary criticizes ruin 
photography in “the Mecca of urban ruins:” Detroit. 
“As a purely aesthetic object, even with the best inten­
tions, ruin photography cannot help but exploit a city’s 
misery; but as political documents on their own, they 
have little new to tell us,” he writes. 

Buckley’s photographs are silent on the subject of 
the poverty that set into Newhallville as manufacturing 
jobs fled the city. On the other hand, Buckley’s pho­
tography may be returning these spaces to the People, 
however niche his actual audience may be. Boarded 
up, the buildings are accessible only to their owners 
and developers surveying potential reuse projects. But 
anyone can visit Vanishing New England to see doz­
ens of photographs of abandoned structures, ranging 
from a train’s dining car to the Remington razor fac­
tory in Bridgeport, to Winchester in New Haven. He 
views himself as a preservationist of sorts, documenting 
industrial America before it disappears. 

“If I have kids and they grow up, they’re not gonna 
see these places,” he says. “They’re gonna be gone. 
America’s never gonna see this again.” 

Screenshots of Buckley’s Winchester 
photographs on the Vanishing New England Facebook page.



**Winchester Repeating Arms**
**Author: Isabelle Taft**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
APRIL 2016
 13
Besides, Buckley is not the typical white-collar, 
“creative type” urbexer, the kind whose love affairs 
with sites of industrial toil can seem condescending at 
best and vaguely necrophiliac at worst. He spends his 
weeks working in a factory as a welder, making boat 
stands. His father is a machinist. His aunts worked 
in New Bedford’s textile mills, several of which have 
now, like much of Winchester, been turned into lofts. 
(In a more thoroughly Vanished New England, his 
great-great-grandfather hunted whale on the last whal­
ing ship out of New Bedford.) 

Almost every weekend, he drives to new sites, often 
with his girlfriend, Tessa. They discover some online, 
reported by other urbexers, but Buckley is proud that 
he’s located about a dozen that, as far as he can tell, 
no one else has documented online. Factories are 
among the easier places to find: using Google Earth, 
he chooses a town, finds a river, zooms in, and follows 
the water until he sees the signs of ruins.

Forest City real estate promotes the Winchester Lofts 
with allusions to what they used to be. The marketing 
strategy dovetails with one of the funding sources for 
the project: nearly twenty million dollars in federal and 
state tax credits, granted to developers for preserving 
historic structures. 

Israel Marquez is a leasing consultant at Winchester, 
and part of his job is to give prospective renters tours of 
the facilities. Marquez looks to be in his late twenties, 
wears a purple sweater and neat black slacks, and ties 
his shoulder-length hair in a ponytail. 

He offers me a cup of coffee made with a Keurig 
in the corner of the leasing office. Then he points out 
the electronic concierge that displays images telling 
residents if they have mail or need to pay their rent. 
He takes me to the game room with a pool table, the 
lounge with a television, and the very clean fitness 
room, all of which are equipped with complimentary 
WiFi. There is a “pet spa” to avoid the indignity of 
bathing your dog in a shower.

The apartment units themselves look how lofts usu­
ally look: artfully sterile, intentionally cool. Exposed 
pipes, preserved from the factory, cross over our heads. 
“The theme of Winchester,” as Marquez calls it, also 
appears in art featured in the common spaces. Framed, 
enlarged copies of the rifle patents greet us as we get 
off the elevator. Mid-century advertisements for Win­
chester guns line the hall from the leasing office to the 
common spaces. And large, color photographs of the 
factory in its rusting, pre-lofts state look, in this context, 
like the large animal heads Teddy Roosevelt must have 
taken home as trophies won with Winchester rifles in 
1908. 

The photographs are strikingly similar to those Buck­
ley uploads to Instagram and his website. The differ­
ence is that what Buckley does is accessible to any­
one with an Internet connection, and it’s against the 
rules—he breaks countless trespassing laws while doing 
it. Jonathan Gertman, development manager of Forest 
City, told me over the phone that he had never heard 
of anyone visiting the fenced-off section of the building 
just for fun. The property, like the rest of America’s 
thirty thousand Forest City apartment complexes, he 
says, has plenty of parking lot lighting and good secu­
rity. The old part of Winchester is simply best left alone.

The developers, however, commissioned photogra­
pher Ramsey Bakhoum to go into the pre-reconstruc­
tion buildings to create works for loft residents to enjoy. 
Bakhoum’s artist statement, next to a black-and-white 
shot titled “Rebirth,” says the “aged factory, rich with 
history, texture, architectural craft and stories untold 
created a unique opportunity to find and reveal beauty 
amidst its forgotten layers and chambers.” The photo­
graphs turn all the spectators—all the loft residents—
into armchair urban explorers. The ruin pictures 
become artifacts that make it easier to ignore the actual 
ruins a few feet away. 

In the case of the Winchester Repeating Arms Fac­
tory, the date of total disappearance (or, to use Forest 
City’s terminology, of rebirth) is uncertain. Gertman 
said the company won’t move forward with plans to 
redevelop the last forty percent of the factory until it’s 
certain there’s enough demand for housing in the city. 
So Buckley’s contribution to the long digital catalogue 
of the abandoned Winchester Repeating Arms Factory 
probably won’t be the last. 

As we climb up the stairs and get closer to the roof, 
the sun gets brighter. Buckley admires the elevator 
shaft and the cables stretching into the darkness. He 
shoots a photograph into the shaft, which later he will 
upload to Facebook with the caption “Going down… 
way, way down.”

On one of the higher floors, there’s a part of the 
building with no roof, like a porch. Standing on it, 
we can look out and see the smooth wall of renovated 
section of the building, just feet away. This afternoon, 
Buckley will drive back to New Bedford and pass who 
knows how many abandoned buildings, all different, all 
decaying or redeveloping, but vanishing all the same. 
Americans may never again see working factories like 
Winchester, and before long may see the last of decay­
ing factories like Winchester. What we will see instead 
are lofts.
— Isabelle Taft is a junior in Silliman College. 
She is an editor-in-chief of The New Journal.


**Let’s Talk About Speech**
**Author: Eleanor Womack**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

 14
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
LET’S TALK ABOUT SPEECH
S N A P S H O T
A flashy “free speech debate” takes the stage
Eleanor Womack 
The empty stage of the Yale Repertory Theatre 
looked like the set of a talk show. A black-and-white 
photograph of the New York City skyline hung in three 
panels in the center, and two empty frosted-glass tables 
stood on either side of the stage, each flanked by a black 
podium. Lights on the walls shifted sunset-like from 
orange to pink. On March 1, Yale students, professors, 
New Haven locals, and even high school debate teams 
shuffled into the Rep clutching grey pamphlets that 
declared: “Free Speech is Threatened on Campus.”

This was a public debate hosted by the nonprofit 
Intelligence Squared, but its resolution might have 
been lifted from any of the endless finger-wagging 
think pieces that appeared in response to anti-rac­
ism demonstrations last semester at the University of 
Missouri, Yale, and other colleges. And although the 
debate had been scheduled long before last Novem­
ber, higher-ups at Intelligence Squared chose the topic 
specifically because of its relevance to Yale, according 
to Dana Wolf, the executive producer of Intelligence 
Squared U.S.

In the theatre, Silliman Master Nicholas Christakis 
sat alone in the third row. Last November, when his 
wife, associate master and professor of psychology Erika 
Christakis, quoted him in an email criticizing over-sen­
sitivity to cultural appropriation, students confronted 
Master Christakis in the Silliman courtyard. Christakis 
defended himself, and the email his wife sent, by say­
ing, “I apologize for causing pain, but I am not sorry for 
the statement … I stand behind free speech. I defend 
the right for people to speak their minds.” The abstract 
universality Christakis invoked then would return in 
Moderator John Donvan addresses Wendy Kaminer and John McWhorter, both debating in the affirmative; 
Shaun Harper and Jason Stanley conference. Photo by Samuel Lahoz.


 15
the debate, partly by design: moderator John Donvan 
insisted that the arguments presented did not refer spe­
cifically to Yale, but to college campuses all over the 
country.

Murmurs rose from the crowd as the audience 
waited for the debate to begin. A student in a sweater 
vest walked up to Christakis, smiled, and bent down to 
talk. They chatted amicably.

The four debaters took their seats on stage. On the 
affirmative side were Wendy Kaminer, a lawyer and a 
writer for the Foundation for Individual Rights in Edu­
cation (FIRE), and John McWhorter, a professor of 
linguistics at Columbia. Arguing for the negative side 
were Shaun Harper, the executive director of the Uni­
versity of Pennsylvania’s Center for the Study of Race 
& Equity in Education, and Yale philosophy professor 
Jason Stanley. 

But before anyone gave opening remarks, Donvan 
instructed the audience to vote using the remotes on 
the arms of each seat. The outcome of the debate, he 
explained, would be determined not by which side had 
the highest percentage of the vote, but by the differ­
ence between votes collected at the beginning and end 
of the debate. When asked if free speech is threatened 
on campus, forty-nine percent of the audience said yes, 
twenty-seven percent said no, and twenty-four percent 
were undecided.

Round one began with each debater giving a six-min­
ute opening speech. The speeches ran the gamut of 
traditional argument: Kaminer argued that the ten­
dency to label offensive speech as “micro-aggressions” 
or “forms of discrimination” punishes and suppresses 
such speech as if it were capable of physical violence. 
And although McWhorter emphasized that he opposed 
unlimited free speech, citing slavery and genocide as 
topics too abhorrent to be worthy of any debate, he crit­
icized students for shouting down less obviously offen­
sive things instead of engaging in discussion. “What is 
the line between cultural appropriation and cultural 
mixture?” he asked. “That’s a tough one. It’s subtle. It’s 
worth debate. It’s not a matter of just shouting people 
down if a certain subject comes up or if a certain action 
is performed.”

On the right side of the stage, Stanley railed against 
the media’s tendency to frame student protest as a 
threat to freedom of speech, rather than as students 
engaged in its exercise. Harper added that students 
of color on predominantly white campuses are often 
silent in response to the racism they experience at the 
hands of their professors or peers. Now that these voices 
are finally being heard, he said, they should be cele­
brated, rather than criticized.

In round two, the debaters engaged in crossfire: 
Kaminer insisted that Stanley and Harper mischarac­
terized her argument as anti-protest. The problem, she 
said, was not that students were protesting, but rather 
that the protesters were demanding more robust speech 
codes—official campus policies that limit and restrict 
what one can say—which she views as demonstrative of 
a dangerous new turn toward “speech policing.”

But Harper, who, along with McWhorter, was one of 
the two black debaters, insisted in a booming voice that 
students of color don’t want speech codes. “They want 
the curriculum to reflect their humanity. They want 
the consciousness of their professors and their peers to 
be raised so that people don’t do this to future gener­
ations of students of color on their campuses. That’s 
what they want. They don’t say a thing to me about 
speech codes.” 

Yale’s history seems to confirm Harper’s claim: 
while students have been debating the merits of “free 
speech” for centuries—an 1887 issue of the Yale Daily 
News announced a Phi Beta Kappa debate on the 
topic: “Absolutely free speech is not in the best inter­
ests of society”—the need for an explicit free speech 
protocol did not arise until the late twentieth century. 
Even then, it was the administration, not students, who 
brought the policy to the table.

That policy, the 1974 Woodward Report, was over a 
decade in the making. In 1963, after the widely pub­
licized bombing of a Birmingham church, University 
Provost Kingman Brewster requested that the Yale 
Political Union withdraw its invitation of Alabama 
governor George Wallace, an ardent segregationist. 
Brewster’s decision, which he maintained was in the 
interest of maintain positive town-gown relations, was 
highly criticized by both students and other University 
officials. 

In 1974, Stanford physicist and infamous eugeni­
cist William Shockley was invited to speak at the Yale 
BY DESIGN, DEBATE IS 
NOT ACTION, AND NO ONE 
EXPECTED THIS ONE TO 
SETTLE THE CENTURIES-OLD 
“FREE SPEECH” QUESTION 
IN AN HOUR AND A HALF



**Title: THE PROBLEM WAS NOT THAT STUDENTS WERE PROTESTING, BUT THAT THE PROTESTESTERS WERE DEMANDING MORE ROBUST SPEECH CODES—OFFICIAL CAMPUS POLICIES THAT LIMIT AND RESTRICT WHAT ONE CAN SAY—WHICH SHE VIEWS AS DEMONSTRATIVE OF A DANGEROUS NEW TURN TOWARD “SPEECH POLICING.”**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Political Union. After much internal agitation, the 
Union withdrew its invitation. But several other orga­
nizations attempted to invite Shockley, inducing Brew­
ster to denounce such invitations as inconsiderate and 
irresponsible, criticizing “the use of free speech as a 
game.” Shockley did end up coming to campus, invited 
by Yale’s branch of the Young Americans for Freedom, 
but protesters, who made up almost a third of the audi­
ence, shouted insults and obscenities at Shockley. After 
an hour and fifteen minutes, University Secretary Sam 
Chauncey closed the meeting. For the first time in 
the University’s modern history, a guest was unable to 
speak because of organized disruption. 

While the editorial board of the Yale Daily News spoke 
out in support of the protesters, Brewster’s response was 
far more critical. “It makes me sick that even a small 
minority of Yale students would choose storm trooper 
tactics in preference to freedom of speech,” he said. 
To ensure such an event would never happen again, 
Brewster, then president of the University, created a 
committee to establish a formal policy by which Yale 
could deal with issues of freedom of speech. In Decem­
ber of 1974, the committee released the “Report of the 
Committee on Freedom of Expression at Yale,” known 
as the Woodward Report after the committee’s head, 
historian C. Vann Woodward. According to the report, 
“the paramount obligation of the University is to pro­
tect their right to free expression,” even when such free 
expression comes at the expense of “civility and mutual 
respect.” The Woodward Report is still hailed as a shin­
ing example of the University’s exercise of its values; 
President Peter Salovey quoted it heavily during his 
2014 address to the freshman class.

But while the Woodward Report was explicit in its 
commitment to free discourse, it dealt primarily with 
student protest over speakers invited to Yale. Today’s 
conversations around free speech, however, focus on 
individual interactions among students. During the 
Intelligence Squared debate, Kaminer cited cases 
where students at Amherst College and the University 
of South Carolina were investigated for distributing 
posters which other students found offensive. That 
these students were investigated, she said, is demon­
strative of a recent shift in campus climate that threat­
ens free speech. Yet the kind of cases Kaminer outlined 
are not new either. And at Yale, the administration’s 
stance is far more nebulous than the clear-cut commit­
ments of the Woodward Report might suggest.

At Yale’s 1986 Gay and Lesbian Awareness Day, 
Wayne Dick, a Yale student, distributed flyers advo­
cating “Bestiality Awareness Day.” Yale’s Executive 
Committee sentenced Dick to two years of probation, 
calling the fliers harassment of the queer community. 
But when Dick appealed his sentence on the grounds 
that the administration had threatened his freedom of 
expression, Yale retracted its probation and eventually 
expunged the incident from Dick’s record.

Twenty-two years later, the University inflicted no 
punishment on the members of Yale’s Zeta Psi frater­
nity when its pledges held signs outside the Women’s 
Center that read, “We Love Yale Sluts.” But in 2010, 
when fraternity Delta Kappa Epsilon sung a song that 
“made light of rape,” the University sanctioned the frat 
on the grounds that the brothers had “threatened and 
intimidated others.” Even then, Yale was not exempt 
from the criticism that it unduly restricted speech: 
FIRE urged then-President Richard Levin to overturn 
the punishment.

Now, as free speech advocates line up against Yale stu­
dents protesting aspects of campus culture—including 
the alleged frat party that was for “white girls only”—
the possibility of establishing bright lines recedes even 
further. Should blatantly discriminatory speech be 
allowed in the interest of protecting all speech?

At the Intelligence Squared debate, affirmative 
speaker McWhorter said no: “If there is a culture that 
would allow someone to say that only white women 
are allowed at a fraternity party, well, that should be 
shouted to the heavens most certainly.”

Where, then, does McWhorter draw the line? I asked 
him to clarify over email, after the debate: “That frat


--- Page 17 ---

APRIL 2016
 17
party episode should be protested. The frat brother 
deserves to be called a racist. However, discussion and 
debate over obviously less egregious things is fine, but 
should not entail charges that people are ‘racist’ from 
the get go, or even a general rolling implication that 
‘racism’ must be at the bottom of the matter. That is, 
these discussions should not essentially be show trials.” 
McWhorter presented a nuance mostly absent from 
the debate itself. While it’s easy to decry a culture that 
insists not only on protesting controversial speakers, 
but also on silencing them completely, it’s much more 
difficult to extend that logic to interactions between 
students, or between students and professors, and 
claim that speaking out against racism—as students did 
after the SAE “white girls only” incident—represents a 
threat to free speech. 

In the end, the vote was sixty-six percent in the affir­
mative (“Free speech is threatened on campus”), and 
twenty-five percent in the negative, with nine percent 
undecided. The affirmative picked up seventeen per­
cent of the vote, and was pronounced the winner.

But as the audience filed out of the Rep, it was dif­
ficult to be satisfied with the discourse. In the inter­
est of expanding the scope to “campus” writ large, the 
details of specific issues at different universities across 
the country were elided into blunt talking points, and 
whatever emotions or nuance they might have con­
tained disappeared entirely. But this was perhaps to 
be expected: By design, debate is not action, and no 
one expected this one to settle the centuries-old “free 
speech” question in an hour and a half. Yet the event 
purported to offer, if not answers, at least clarity. But 
on the issues raised in the Silliman courtyard, on Cross 
Campus, at the March of Resilience, and in private 
spaces all over the University last semester, it didn’t.

— Eleanor Womack is a sophomore in 
Berkeley College. 
Shaun Harper, on the negative, gestures while debate partner Jason Stanley looks on. Photo by Samuel Lahoz.



--- Page 18 ---

 18
The first thing Hondo Colwick remembers about 
his surgery is the line of metal utensils on a sterile blue 
sheet. From birth, he had a fatty flap of¬ skin where 
there should have been a foot. After he turned 3, sur­
geons sliced off two toes that protruded from the flap’s 
side. The toes had kept Hondo from easily placing his 
leg into the below-the-knee prosthesis he’d worn since 
he was ten months old. They also marked what could 
have been, if his mother had not used a defective con­
traceptive called the Dalkon Shield. It stole from the 
baby it was meant to prevent. 

Thirty-seven years after the surgery, Hondo runs his 
hands over the plaster mold of another man’s stump. 
He is an artificial limb maker at the New England 
Orthotic and Prosthetic Systems (NEOPS) fabrication 
center in Branford, Connecticut. Today’s project, a 
snow-white thigh, sticks out from the edge of the table 
like a precarious Popsicle. A vise grip holds it parallel 
to the floor, and a metal rod runs from plaster groin to 
plaster knee—right where the bone would be.  

The plaster molds that populate the center are stand-
ins for absentee clients. The UPS truck delivers casts 
from doctors’ offices around New England every morn­
ing. Just as dentists stick putty on teenagers’ teeth, phy­
sicians wrap plaster gauze around patients’ shortened 
limbs. When the hardened forms arrive at the fabrica­
tion center, the prosthetic technicians line them up. 
Hondo’s coworkers fill the casts, and voilà: in fifteen 
minutes, there’s a statuesque copy of the patient’s leg. 
Ripped casts, mottled plastic, and yesterday’s 
lunch fill blue Rubbermaid Brute trash containers at 
NEOPS. Dozens of plaster half-limbs are shoved under 
the table beside the industrial oven. Hondo uses them 
to make cup-shaped sockets to fit around each ampu­
tee’s stump. The sockets attach to metal pylons, which 
connect to a carbon-fiber skeleton inside a plastic foot. 
They lean against the fabrication center’s worktables, 
like strange flowers blooming on hollow stems. Five 
plastic toes and five plastic toenails make the foot at the 
end almost pretty, while the black carbon fiber wedge 
hidden inside makes it functional. This doll-like end 
absorbs the shock, the thump, of foot striking ground. It 
gives the amputee a natural spring in his step. 

Hondo is a ruddy-faced man with a sense of humor 
and a collection of T-shirts in sometimes-poor taste; 
one from Bass Pro Shops reads: “I Like ’Em With Long 
Legs and A Big Rack!” alongside a deer silhouette. 
But when he is at work, nothing can disturb him; he 
answers questions with a few cheery but terse replies, 
sometimes little more than, “Yup.” Like the surgeons 
looking for his small toes, he inspects the mold to find 
the hills that stick out and the valleys that go too deep. 
He looks for the smooth dip right under the patella, the 
small protrusion of the tibia, and the stretch of muscle 
that bears pressure on the back of the calf. He under­
stands, from lumbering around on his own prosthesis, 
that if the surface does not feel smooth under his palm, 
a dull ache will settle into the patient’s leg by the mid­
dle of the day. 

Hondo is one of only two men on the ten-person 
staff with a prosthesis; the other works at the stitching 
station. The men blare the radio while working, and 
Hondo launches into a high-pitched rendition of the 
song. “Take a look at my girlfriend, yeah, yeah,” he 
sings. 

“We’re looking at a big, big lady!” a co-worker later 
yells as he pulls out an oversized plaster mold. “Where’s 
my girl?”

“Was she nice?” Hondo asks cheerily.

“Oh, she’s adorable,” the man replies, returning to 
work.  

This banter is part of an environment where men 
break off chunks of an old man’s artificial hamstring 
while singing along to Top-Forty hits. Though Hondo’s 
entirely respectful of the clients, these jokes have the 
casualness of a bunch of guys in a workplace (the only 
woman works in the office, away from the floor). On 
a Monday morning, Michael Jackson’s “Beat It” plays 
like an ironic anthem: “Don’t wanna see no blood, 
don’t be a macho man / You wanna be tough, better do 
what you can.” 

No other man in the world has a prosthetic like 
Hondo Colwick’s. For one thing, his socket extends 
all the way from knee to ankle to accommodate his 

**Title: THE MAGIC FOOT OF HONDO COLWICK**
**Author: Maya Averbuch**
**Page number(s): 18**

P R O F I L E 
A prosthetics craftsman makes what he knows



**Title: The Magic Foot**
**Author: Maya Averbuch**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
APRIL 2016
 19
extra-long limb. Perhaps more notably, blue fabric 
with characters from the Mickey Mouse Club House 
is laminated into the surface of his prosthesis. It’s a full 
Disney panorama, from cargo shorts to running shoes. 
“People make fun of the Mickey leg,” Hondo says 
with a grin. They also made fun of his previous choices, 
Nemo and Taz, but he doesn’t give a damn. He tells 
people his wife helped him pick the decoration. She 
was a student at Hondo’s former workplace, Newington 
Children’s Hospital, and they were married at the Dis­
ney World wedding pavilion several years later. He tells 
kids, though, that it’s his “Magic Foot.”


Hondo’s name comes from a six-foot-five basketball 
superstar who used to play for the Celtics. Hondo’s par­
ents stopped calling him Andrew—his legal name—
when he was 2 years old. A sporty nickname seemed 
more fitting for this wild, rambunctious boy, though 
Hondo does not exactly resemble the Celtic’s John 
“Hondo” Havlicek. “He’d literally go from one end of 
the court to the other,” Hondo says of his Celtics name­
sake, “and I guess I was a little terror.” 
His mother believes the Dalkon Shield, an intra-uter­
ine device that led to thousands of lawsuits in the 
nineteen-seventies, caused Hondo’s congenital limb 
defect. But she has no proof, only numbers. After the 
FDA pulled the product from the shelves, women who 
filed for damages won nearly $2.5 billion. They spoke 
in courts about inflammatory pelvic infections, septic 
abortions, and a few cases of death. One lost foot was 
not out of the question. 

Hondo tells me about his time as a point guard on 
the basketball court, flank on the soccer field, pitcher 
and first baseman on the baseball diamond. He wasn’t 
worried about what would happen if he ran around, 
and it showed: between the ages of 1 and 13, Hondo 
broke many prosthetic legs. At age 6, he snapped his 
ankle in two at his parents’ beach cottage in Old Lyme, 
Connecticut. His father accidentally glued his foot on 
backwards, and they had to drive all the way back to the 
hospital to have the technicians put it back together. 
Hondo doesn’t have all that much to say about his 
leg, because as far as he’s concerned, he’s just a “nor­
mal family guy”—the kind who goes home to a small 
house with a wife and a 3-year-old kid, who tunes in to 
fox or The Walking Dead, and who goes motor boating 
in his 22-foot Sea Ray on weekends. He likes the boat 
for the freedom, and the saltwater, and the feeling of 
being out on the ocean. But he adds that maneuvering 
with rudimentary prosthetic technology when he was a 
child was not easy. 

His early prostheses teetered on a foam foot and 
included an adjustable socket bound by Velcro straps. 
“People thought I was always limited,” he says. But 
then they’d see him play.
His older siblings treated him gently (not just because 
he was the youngest), and they stood up for him if any 
other kids turned mean. But Hondo says they didn’t 
have much work to do: “I always stood up for myself. 
I never got bullied or anything.” Now, his sister works 
for Hallmark and his brother works for an insurance 
company—the ultimate disaster response team. 

Hondo got into the prosthetics business because, 
after high school, it seemed pragmatic, and he was 
always good with his hands. Newington Orthotic & 
Prosthetic Systems, where he was certified as a tech­
nician, functioned alongside the children’s hospital 
where he had gotten his first prosthetic. He stayed on 
until the company was bought out by Hanger, Inc. “I 
have a love of helping people get their lives on track,” 
he says. “It’s just nice to see people walk again.”
Hondo’s lucky, by some standards: the fact that he’s 
been footless since birth means that his leg muscles 
aren’t shrinking. Unlike the bodies of many amputees, 
his is not in a constant state of flux. When his leg irri­
tates him, he makes a few adjustments instead of mak­
ing a new socket.
But prostheses’ life spans are limited. “This is my old 
foot,” Hondo says, pulling out a glossy black piece of 
carbon shaped like a tiny children’s slide. Though he 
now does lay-ups only when he’s visiting his nephews 
in Southington, Connecticut, he strains his prosthe­
sis by working hard each day. “When carbon snaps, 
it makes a pop—a real, loud pop,” he says, looking at 
the old Freedom Innovations foot that he stores at the 
workshop. “Seven years on it, and it finally broke.”


Mass-produced feet, mass-produced knees, and 
mass-produced joints provide mobility to over 1.6 mil­
lion U.S. amputees. Fewer than two thousand are vet­
erans who have fought in Iraq and Afghanistan. The 
majority are elderly individuals who have lost circula­
tion and often end up in the hospital for vascular dis­
eases. People in traumatic accidents are a close second. 
More than two hundred American artificial limb 
manufacturers were at the ready when the first shots 
of World War I were fired. The mom-and-pop opera­
tions that once shipped arms and legs across the coun­
try have since closed. Big players like New England 
Orthotic and Prosthetics Systems—the second-largest 
O&P company in the country—have taken over the 
supply chain. 

Mac Hanger, a physician who comes to the fabrica­
tion center to adjust patients’ molds, is the great-grand­
son of the Civil War’s first amputee. His great-grandfa­
ther started Hanger, Inc., NEOPS’s biggest competitor, 


--- Page 20 ---

 20
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
after a cannonball tore off his leg at the Battle of 
Philippi. Surgeons at that time wiped their knives on 
aprons in preparation for the next man, and chloroform 
didn’t always dampen the pain. But you could make a 
sturdy enough leg out of barrel wood, and the young 
man did just that. He then made his money off of the 
war’s thirty-five thousand amputees. For an above-the-
knee prosthesis, the going rate at the time was two hun­
dred dollars.
Brand-name legs became part of American business. 
The Selpho Leg, which was originally made with cat­
gut tendons, arrived from London in 1839. The E-Z- 
Leg, or Liberty Leg, became all the rage in the sum­
mer of 1918. Woodrow Wilson’s National Defense Act 
funded the creation of an Artificial Limb Laboratory 
to account for the four thousand amputees that stum­
bled out of World War I. White willow wood, which 
had been dried over years, was once the most popular 
option (until too many maimed men stayed alive for 
the trees to keep pace). 

After World War II, the veterans who spurred many 
of the advances of the industry were the same guys who 
appeared in instructional manuals with their hands on 
their hips and their pants rolled up, or in army archives 
with a lit cigarette. In Artificial Parts, Practical Lives, 
communications professor David Serlin argues that the 
U.S. media used amputees to glamorize postwar patri­
otism and combat the public’s concerns about fragile 
American families. 

Prostheses became symbols of masculinity lost and 
found. The Philadelphia Inquirer raised more than 
$50,000 for an army private who lost all his comrades 
and limbs in a Pacific Ocean plane crash in World War 
II. Other newspapers featured him posing with Miss 
America in a GM car specially made for amputees. 
Academy-Award-winning films like “The Best Years of 
Our Lives” told the tale of a veteran named Homer 
with mechanical-hook hands. He married the darling 
next door by the time the credits rolled.
The attitudes toward people with disabilities have 
changed rapidly since the nineteen-forties, now that 
Olympic athletes and sexy models have borrowed the 
mantle of military men. Cheetah-like feet allow run­
ners to sprint forward, and adjustable ankles let high-
heel wearers out on the town. But America’s image of 
amputees remains inextricably linked to war. For men 
like Hondo, the awkwardness of the association is hard 
to escape.
“Thank you for your service,” a man said when 
Hondo took his daughter to Dunkin’ Donuts for a 


--- Page 21 ---

 21
breakfast sandwich in November. He was not the first; 
an army veteran had recently spotted Hondo’s leg at 
Walgreens and congratulated its owner for heroism. 
Such mistakes happen all the time, and Hondo replies 
without pause.
“I was born without a foot,” Hondo tells them. He 
teaches them about the prosthetics businesses, describ­
ing his days at a workshop that many never even knew 
existed. He’s easy-going about it, unwilling to make a 
fuss. “I wouldn’t know what to do with a real foot.”


The door of the hulking oven opens and a billow 
of heat tumbles out. Hondo’s gloved hand grasps the 
melted ProFlex inside the 400° Fahrenheit cave. As 
Hondo lifts the metal ring around the sheet, the cen­
ter of the plastic gives in to gravity. It resembles, for 
a moment, a perfectly transparent bowl suspended in 
midair. 
Muscles cannot push; they can only pull or stop pull­
ing. The muscles that use force to contract are called 
the “agonists,” whereas the muscles that resist are the 
“antagonists.” As Hondo stretches the plastic over the 
plaster mold, he leans forward; the muscles in his back, 
in his arms, in his legs shift into position. He begins to 
pull, pull, pull.
When the plastic cools, he covers it with sock-like 
layers of black carbon mesh and white fiberglass. A 
vacuum-sucked PVC plastic stretches around the bun­
dle, making it look like cream frosting in a cake-dec­
orating bag. The Kingsley Manufacturing Company’s 
color options include Caucasian, Dark Caucasian, 
Light Caucasian, 4A Medium Brown, 7A Dark Brown, 
Latin, Oriental, and Snow White (which Hondo says 
they don’t buy). He pours a mixture of paint and epoxy 
into a cut-off Mountain Dew container at the top of the 
bag. The finished stumps resemble a cluster of giants’ 
thumbs on the metal-top table. 

But the cosmetic process is far from over. “People 
don’t want to look at a pylon, you know what I mean?” 
Hondo says. He wraps a piece of foam around the leg 
because he wants to make a shape resembling a lifelike 
calf. The grinder emits an angry squeal every time it 
makes contact. 

A seam of yellow glue along the back of the foam 
looks like a bad stocking seam, and the edges near the 
ankle are frayed like the fabric on the end of an old 
t-shirt. But Hondo inspects the leg meticulously: if he 
gets the angles of the foam just right, people might not 
notice that CPI 26 is printed on the bottom of the plas­
tic foot shell, or that the ankle only bends so far. 

When Hondo picks up his 3-year-old, Faith, from 
daycare at the end of the day and brings her home, 
bits of this leg will come with him. “I’m just constantly 
washing my hands, and the plaster’s drying my palms 
up even worse,” he says. Tiny shards of fiberglass turn 
his hands redder each day. Shreds of carbon slip under 
the skin. “That stuff’s—ooh—that stuff’s no good 
either.” He shudders. “That stuff’s so fine that once it 
gets on you, it itches the crap out of you.” 

He’s so busy looking at other people’s legs all day, 
or doting on his child, that he scarcely pays attention 
to his own leg. Though he had to order a new foot, he 
hasn’t bothered to replace the rest of his prosthesis in 
the past seven years; most people make a change after 
just three. His wife’s father, a physician in the prosthet­
ics business, will probably fit him for a new leg when 
the current one breaks. 

“It’s like the mechanic driving a crappy car, and the 
shoe repairman whose kids have holes in their shoes,” 
he says.
His wife, Sara, grew up understanding artificial body 
parts. Her uncle lost his leg in a farming-machine acci­
dent at age 10 and started a family prosthetics business 
as a young man. Before she started work at a medical 
supply company, she learned to make prosthetics at 
Newington Children’s Hospital. The first practice leg 
she made was for Hondo, far before she got to know 
him. First tries are often rough-hewn and chafe the 
skin, but he gritted his teeth and said, “Oh, it’s great!” 
when he fit it on. 

 “What was happening when daddy got this? Do you 
remember?” Sara asks Faith, as the child plays with 
a stuffed dog with floppy brown ears. Hondo’s grand­
mother gifted him the dog on the day of his first foot 
surgery.
“No,” Faith says, blond curls falling into her face. 
She’s got her father’s endless energy and a second 
foot to propel her. She squirms in her seat and holds 
Patches in her arms.
“That’s just the way it is,” Sara says.
Hondo watches Faith climb onto the table before 
she’s escorted to bed. He might one day tell her that, 
in his surgery room, he slept in a bed next to a Saudi 
prince’s son. He might laugh when he admits that he 
got kicked out of the play area for crawling over other 
kids with his cast. He might mention what it’s like to 
walk around with the daily assistance of plastic and tita­
nium and carbon. But for now, none of that matters. 
Faith just knows that not every kid has a father with a 
Mickey Mouse leg. 

— Maya Averbuch is a senior in Berkeley College. 
She is a former editor-in-chief of The New Journal. 



**Title: ONE LITTLE ROOM, AN EVERYWHERE**
**Author: Hayley Byrnes**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 22
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
A year after we lost the house, on a chilly summer 
day, my mother refused to get out of the car. That is the 
only sentence written in my journal. Mom refuses to get 
out of the car. We were in a dirt parking lot one block 
away from our old house. Neither of us had visited 
the house since it had been foreclosed upon one year 
earlier. I was 20. My mother was now living with my 
grandfather in a town forty miles away. I know now that 
I didn’t want to stay with her, but what I told myself 
then, in the car, was that I wanted to visit our next-door 
neighbors. I had it in my mind that I would not be see­
ing much of them in the future. 

The first thing I noticed when I arrived was a man 
carrying a baby at the top of my old house’s driveway. 
He was the new owner. My neighbor Valerie waved to 
me from her porch. She had painted every piece of 
patio furniture canary yellow. She sat on a chair with a 
sheaf of drawing paper in her lap. There was a line of 
clothes that billowed in the wind. This wasn’t the first 
time that I wanted to be a part of her family. This time, 
though, I felt something dangerous well up inside me. 
It wasn’t jealousy. In that moment I didn’t want what 
Valerie had; I wanted for her not to have it. It fright­
ened me. The feeling came and went like an image of 
a pop can flashed onto a movie screen, too quickly for 
me to know where it came from or whether it was real. I 
knew only that the woman who sat painting on an ugly 
chair was a woman with whom I did not want to spend 
the next seven days. My breath rose and fell as I walked 
up to her. We smiled at one another in a way that was 
friendly, but not as friendly as I would have expected, 
coming back to the town after a long time.

One night the new owners threw a party. I watched it 
from the window of my room in Valerie’s house. Men 
in Hawaiian shirts looked at a spiral of smoke curl­
ing up in the air from a grill. Women stood in dresses 
swaying in the wind and children ran barefoot on the 
grass and the mulch around the catalpa trees. Someone 
played an old rock album from a boom box on a picnic 
table that my mother and I had left in the yard. When 
the sun set, a woman came out of the back door with a 
white cake with candles for the man I recognized as the 
father. A thrum of drunken voices sang “Happy Birth­
day.” I told myself I would remember what I saw. One 
day I would write about it. 

I was staying alone in the room of Valerie’s daugh­
ter. Valerie was an artist and years ago had painted a 
mural of the neighborhood children on the walls of 
her daughter’s bedroom. The one who was supposed 
to be me stood turned away from the other children 
with a dandelion in her hand. She held the flower to 
her face and watched the seeds flow away in the wind. 
The other girls played with one another and with boys 
in a garden that looked like Eden. As a child, I hated 
that painting. 

I was staring at the wall wondering why I had come. I 
wasn’t thinking about the past. I was thinking about the 
party. I imagined small acts of terror I could do to that 
house—breaking a window, spray-painting the walls, 
slashing tires. But no—I didn’t want to do anything vio­
lent. I only wanted to look through the window and see 
what of ours the family had kept, if anything. 

I shut the back door softly behind me and walked 
across the gravel to a patch of grass under the 
dining room window. Heat rose sharply in my 
cheeks. I felt the same way I did as a child before 
I stole something. The inside of the house was 
dark. I waited to feel something piercing in my 
chest—some prickly violent unfamiliar pain, 
some feeling that I otherwise did not allow 
myself to feel, anger or hatred or resentment, 
that for once I could feel without fear of judg­
ment. 

Somewhere in the darkness a baby cried. A 
window must have been open because the cry 
wasn’t muffled. Upstairs a light went on and a 
pair of shadows weaved around one another on 
the curtain. The noise startled me. There was 
nothing unique about it, but for some reason it 
reminded me of a voice I knew. The air smelled 
of the lilacs that my father had planted for my 
mother at the foot of the porch years ago. 

It’s hard for me to say whether we would have 
stayed in the house if my father were alive. I’m 
not sure if it’s useful to play that game, to rewind 
the tape and play it as if he were alive. My 
mother would not have quit her job to take care 
of me. She would not have lost what little sav­
ings she had. People we knew would die. Others 
would get married. A plane would still hit the 
towers. Not long after that, a war would start. 
The housing market would crash. But somehow 
it wouldn’t matter. Everything would fall into 
place. We would be fine. 

I started back the way I’d come, careful not to 
cut my bare feet on the gravel, as I often did as 
a child. 

It got light early in the summer, early enough 
for me to explore the neighborhood without fear 
of running into anyone. Before breakfast, I’d 
made it a rule to run around town. I had never 
seen our house in the soft pale blue light of 
morning. I’d had no reason to. I learned from 
Valerie that the father had a job at a hospital. He 
left before sunrise. One day when I was sure no 
one was home I went through the yard to jump 
into the pool. But the new owners had covered it 
with a tarp, an old broken tarp with a hole in the 
middle. I was walking to the edge when I saw on 
the concrete a small pool of blood around a dead 
robin. I used a catalpa leaf to carry the bird into 
the forest behind the field in my old yard. When 
I was a child, my mother and I played games 
in the forest, stumbling out the other side pre­
tending to be explorers or time travelers who’d 


--- Page 23 ---

APRIL 2016
 23
happened on a new place. My elementary school was 
on the other side of the forest and I pretended Mom 
was my sister and the other kids and parents were our 
long lost family. I was thinking about the game as I dug 
a hole in the damp soil. My mother was happy then. 

During the time when my mother and I were moving 
out of our house, I bought a journal in which I wrote 
down everything I wanted to remember. I didn’t write 
about my mother or myself or anyone else. Most of my 
entries were inventories of the objects that filled every 
room in our house. They reminded me of the long 
rambling genealogies of the Bible. Living room: red vel­
vet couch, paisley chair, green Victorian loveseat with 
mahogany cherubs, wooden jewelry box I painted red 
and blue, framed wolf painting (Dad’s?). I was happy to 
think that I was producing something that only I would 
want to read. Something that my mother would care 
very little about. The fact that I had finally found a 
way to remember without inserting my perilous, naked, 
vulnerable self into the matter was a relief. Even if my 
mother found my journal, I was safe. 

But after we moved I kept using it, mostly to record 
the fights I had with my mother. They were not diary 
entries, not really. They were transcriptions. My hand­
writing was messy. I wrote most of the entries as fast as I 
could in the minutes after I had stormed into my room. 
But the words that I wrote had the same icy coolness of 
my lists. I wrote our arguments like lines of dialogue. 

I didn’t take out my journal until the last day, when 
the new owners had a yard sale. I recognized many of 
the objects as things we had left behind. The red vel­
vet couch was on the curb with the other objects they 
were giving away. The woman told me to take anything 
I’d like. I found in the garage a mirror that had been 
there ever since I was a child. My grandmother on my 
father’s side had brought it from a vacation in France 
not long before she died. It was too big for any room in 
the house. I had forgotten it. 

I THOUGHT SUDDENLY 
OF MY FATHER, WHOM 
I REMEMBERED DIMLY 
BUT DIDN’T KNOW. MY 
MEMORIES OF HIM COME 
AND GO LIKE LONG BRIGHT 
SQUARES OF LIGHT THAT 
PASS OVER A DARK WALL. 
WHAT I FELT, I THINK, 
WAS LOVE. 

I thought suddenly of my father, whom I remem­
bered dimly but didn’t know. My memories of him 
come and go like long bright squares of light that 
pass over a dark wall. What I felt, I think, was love. 
I had no words to prime the feeling. I hadn’t kept a 
journal before he died, but whatever the feeling was, 
it remained. It came to me that my only memories of 
him were in the house, and I wondered if that meant 
anything—if one day I would wake up in a different 
place and find that I had forgotten to remember him 
because nothing and no one around me was reminding 
me to do so. That the tape I ran in my head from time 
to time of him throwing me in the air before bed or 
holding a pink afghan tightly around his shoulders on 
a hot afternoon, hours before an ambulance drove to 
the top of our driveway—that one day this tape would 
run out, and I would lose whatever it was that made me 
keep rewinding it. I wanted to keep missing him and I 
feared the day this would stop being so. 

There was a crack in the middle of the mirror. I was 
staring at my figure, in shadow with the sun behind 
me. I reached to feel the cold glass. I wondered what 
about this day I would forget later on. As I heard my 
mother’s car pull into Valerie’s driveway, I touched my 
collarbone, and even in the darkness, I wished sud­
denly there were more of me. 
— Hayley Byrnes is a senior in Silliman College. 
She is a former senior editor of The New Journal. 




**Title: A student activist finds her place in the history of Black organizing at Yale**
**Author: Eshe Sherley**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 26
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
A student activist finds her place 
in the history of Black 
organizing at Yale
by Eshe Sherley


APRIL 2016
 27
Micah Jones and I are standing by a foldout table at 
Afro-American Cultural Center, better known as the 
House. She is the president of the Black Student Alli­
ance at Yale, and I am her vice president and right-
hand woman. We’re selling T-shirts to alumni at the 
House’s forty-fifth anniversary event.

A woman, impeccably dressed, approaches us. She 
introduces herself as Bisa Williams. In 1975, six years 
after the House’s founding, Williams became the first 
Black woman president of BSAY since its founding 
in 1967. After Yale, she served as the Ambassador to 
Niger. As she talks to us, she looks over our last-minute 
display. She has an air of officiousness, but there is a 
warmth about her.

She buys a shirt, but before she leaves, she says, “If 
I had to give you any advice, it would be to make sure 
you graduate on time.” She explains that before she 
became president, not a single one of her predecessors 
had graduated within four years. “I was determined for 
that not to be me. I was getting out in four years,” she 
tells us. “People will try to make you do everything, but 
you can’t let them.” 

Micah and I look at each other. Too late. 

For the past two years, I have interacted with the 
House not only as a leader and a member, but also as a 
historian. These roles can’t be separated—black protest 
and black scholarship have long gone hand in hand. 
Black activism at Yale gained global attention this 
past semester through the March of Resilience, when 
students of color reminded the campus of the ways 
in which Yale continues to fail them. And while the 
activism led to important advances, it did not erase past 
conflicts. In my research on the House, I’ve encoun­
tered repetitive cycles of conflict—not only between 
the Black student body and Yale, but also within its 
own community. 

Every BSAY board faces challenges, but the 2014–
2015 board walked into an exceptionally difficult year. 
For four years, the Black community had been frac­
tured under the leadership of Dean Rodney Cohen, 
the House’s top administrator at the time. Within 
Above: Students play ping pong downstairs in what would 
later be renovated and renamed the Lighten Room.
Below: The BSAY Class of 1976 outside the 
House, including Larry Irvin (bottom left) 
and Bisa Williams (middle right).
Photos of the Afro-American Cultural Center 
courtesy of Chad Hillard. 
Archive Photos from Afro-American Cultural 
Center at Yale Records (RU 957). Manuscripts 
and Archives, Yale University. 



**Title: The Fight for Afam House**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
months of his appointment in 2010, House staff, 
headed by Allison Robinson and Ivy Onyeador, wrote 
a letter to the Dean’s office about Cohen’s pattern of 
regularly missing staff meetings, not coming to student 
events, and failing to approve the undergraduate staff’s 
hours so that they could be paid. (Cohen could not be 
reached for comment for this story.)


In the words of this staff in 2010, “Dean Cohen’s 
performance as Director of the House has been at best, 
lackluster, and at worst, appalling. He has presented a 
pattern of inconsistency, unreliability and lack of lead­
ership that we haven’t experienced before, driving us to 
seek advice and guidance elsewhere.”


When I arrived as a freshman in 2012, I saw these 
problems persist. I had entered into the midst of a 
debate that began with that letter, which in turn intro­
duced me to alumni like Bisa Williams, who came 
back to the House in the fall of 2014. Their dismay 
at the disorganized state of the House community 
reopened a familiar wound. We had watched the 
Black student leaders  before us struggle over what to 
do about Cohen’s tenure, and as a result, Micah and I 
made ousting Cohen a priority.


The previous board produced a petition asking for 
Cohen to be “retrained” in the spring of 2014, but 
there was no response from Yale College adminis­
trators Dean Mary Miller, Dean of Student Affairs 
Marichal Gentry, or Vice President for Student Life 
Kimberly Goff-Crews. If administrators, two Black and 
one white, would not respond to communication from 
Black students, then it was time to stop asking and start 
demanding. The Yale we were contending with was no 
longer the gentleman’s club of the House’s founding 
years, but an unresponsive bureaucracy. 


Since its founding in 1969, Black activism has kept 
the House alive. Through the leadership of Armstead 
Robinson ’68, Don Ogilvie ’68, and Glen DeChabert 
’70 (collectively known as “the Founders”), the House, 
then called Afro America Inc., was established at 1195 
Chapel Street. By 1970, the House moved to 211 Park 
St., the former Chi Psi fraternity house, and was reno­
vated in 1971.


The BSAY board at the time had asked for a Black 
Cultural Center as a refuge from the pervasive white­
ness of Yale life. Early in the 1969 spring term, BSAY 
sent President Kingman Brewster a letter demanding 
the founding of a BCC by September of the same year. 
The letter also reflected the many needs that Black stu­
dents hoped the BCC would fulfill, including money 
for a part time coordinator of the center (approved by 
BSAY and the Afro American Study Group), a Black 
freshman counseling program, and help from the 
administration to obtain outside funding for social 
action.


In September of 1969, Black students got their BCC. 
Soon, they would just call it “the House.” While win­
ning Afro America Inc. and the African American Stud­
ies Department in 1969 were hard-fought victories, 
they inaugurated a battle over resources—necessary 
to allow the space to thrive—that would continue for 
decades.


The University’s actions have historically starved the 
house of financial and human resources. Every year 
since its founding, the director has had to struggle to 
make sure the House and its many member groups 
have enough money to operate successfully. 


In the House’s early years in the nineteen-seven­
ties, Black students attempted to transfer their Student 
Activities Fee from their residential colleges to the 
House, as they felt unwelcome at college parties, like 
one with a “Klan Party” theme in 1982. When the Stu­
dent Activities Fee was reconfigured, the House had to 
start charging membership fees to Black students and 
even higher fees to students who came for individual 
events. 


Yale has also historically been stingy with resources 
for the physical structure of the House. In 1989, house 
Director Melvin Wade had to spend the beginning 
of the school year making sure that the University 
removed the last of the asbestos that had been partially 
dealt with in the summer. Even worse, according to 
Wade, the University had not brought the building up 
to code since 1928. 


Upon returning to Yale for the thirtieth anniversary 
of the House in 1999, the Black alumni were morti­
fied by the state of the building that they had worked 
so hard to maintain. Dean Pamela George described 
her first impression when she walked into the space as 
its new director in 2000: “It was terrible. I cried. The 
rats, the roaches, praying that a roach didn’t come out 
while we were having an event—I hope I killed the last 
roach. The buckets, because the roof was leaking all 
over the place. It was horrible.”


What happened to the roaches, the mice, and the 
leaking roof? The alumni got fed up. With George on 
board, they began a capital campaign to renovate the 
House. By the thirty-fifth anniversary celebration in 
2004, the entire basement had been redone, an archive 
for the House had been established, and there was an 
endowment for Black student leadership development 
named the ORD Fund after the founders of the House: 
Ogilvie, Robinson, and DeChabert.


But starting in 2010, at the beginning of Dean 
Cohen’s term, the gains reversed. The kitchen, like in 
2000, became barely useable. A large rug in the main 
room covered a wooden floor that needed repair. The 
library, which used to boast countless books about 
Black history and culture, was nearly empty. More 
importantly, the House began to empty of people, as 
Black students saw the House as a less welcoming place. 


To make matters worse, the Yale administration 
decided to merge the “House directorship” position 
with an “assistant deanship” in the early nineteen-nine­
ties, emphasizing the job’s connection to the Yale Col­
lege Dean’s Office. This balancing act is not only tax­
ing for the director, but also for the Black students who 
have to compete for the director’s time. Community 
building and direct interaction with Black students 
dropped on the list of priorities. George was one of 
the first directors who had to navigate the change. She 
commented on the risk of a director becoming isolated 
within the administration, away from the House and its 
members. “Before you know it,” she said, “something’s 
fallen apart.” 


While Micah and I organized under Dean Cohen, 
figures from the House’s past took notice. In the fall 
of 2014, the administration told all the cultural cen­
ters that they would receive external reviews. The ears 
of Black alumni, who had witnessed similar processes 
before, immediately pricked up. 


While the other directors of the three other cultural 
centers had notified their students about the review, 
Dean Cohen did not alert the House members. Upon 
hearing that Black students knew nothing of the Uni­
versity’s plans, alumna Kim Hershman ’88 sent House 
leaders an urgent email notifying them about the stu­
dent forum portion of the review process. 


After the initial open forum in November, the admin­
istration had planned two more forums in early Febru­
ary 2015. Micah and I decided that one of these was 
the moment to publicly call for Cohen’s resignation. 


For several weeks, we went to groups in the Black com­
munity, urging them to sign the petition for Cohen’s 
removal. Not everyone did. Some students were afraid 
that a petition was too aggressive, and others didn’t feel 
compelled to say anything because they knew nothing 
about Cohen—which, we argued, was a reflection of 
his absence from the House. 


Ultimately, the Black Men’s Union rejected the peti­
tion, the only Black student group to do so out of the 
five that had connections to the majority of the House 
community. 


We decided to confront the rift head-on. Micah met 
with the President of the BMU, Will Searcy ’16, and he 
said he understood that Dean Cohen’s conduct, which 
to some appeared most invested in Yale’s Black men, 
harmed the community. In the petition, seven women 
had relayed experiences of sexism with Cohen. But the 
general body of the BMU still voted the motion down. 
Searcy said he saw rifts in attitudes toward the peti­
tion. When the BMU decided not to sign on, he said, 
it wasn’t out of disagreement with its organizational 
goals—the BMU agreed with wanting more financial 
transparency, clarifying the membership system, and 


The last five years of struggle stripped the House of its 
home-like feeling. Sometimes I wonder about what came out 
of our fight for the House. With the hiring of Dean Risë Nelson, 
and with the energy brought by the March of Resilience, we are 
beginning to rebuild.



**Title: APRIL 2016**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
APRIL 2016
 31
setting up a structure to hold deans accountable. However, he said that the petition and accompanying letters 
against Cohen “didn’t always focus on problems with 
his effectiveness,” he said. “It was more of a character 
attack. Guys didn’t feel comfortable signing off on that 
because that wasn’t the experience they had with him.” 
From political decisions to social settings, gender 
issues in the Black student body have affected the 
House’s activism since its founding. At a Black Women’s Coalition meeting last spring, I heard an alumna 
talk about being raped by a Black male student in the 
nineteen-seventies. She felt she couldn’t talk about 
it because publicizing the story would undercut the 
Black student movement. How many other Black 
women before and after her had gone through the 
same experience? 

Sexism in the House often operates in activist spaces. 
From Bisa Williams to Caroline Jackson-Smith, who 
served on BSAY’s steering committee in the early seventies, women were often powerful, respected contributors to the activist work of Black Yale, but paternalism 
from male students could diminish their involvement. 
In 1974, Yale senior Warrington Hudlin made a documentary called “Black at Yale.” In one scene, three 
Black women argue with a Black male peer. They’re 
standing on the first floor of the House, filling the 
lobby with their dispute. It’s heated on both sides, but I 
noticed a hint of a smirk on the man’s face when I saw 
the film.
He is so condescending, I thought, watching in the 
booth at the Yale Film Study Center. But maybe I’m 
just imagining it. 

Hudlin then cuts to the same Black man as he speaks 
to another Black male student in an apartment. The 
second Black male student comments on the three 
women—he understands “them” now. They’re “crazy,” 
but “you have to deal with them!” 

One of the women in the scene was Bisa Williams. 
When she took over BSAY in 1975, Williams wanted 
to transform the group’s “petty socializing and political romanticizing” into more disciplined political conduct. In a speech outlining these changes, Williams 
argued that BSAY should work to better “the mental, 
physical, social, and political condition of all people of 
African descent.” In line with that vision, she proposed 
fundamental changes in membership requirements 
for BSAY members. Upset that Williams seemed to be 
abdicating BSAY’s role as a social support for Black students, some members splintered off to form the Black 
Student Union (which ended in 1976). Williams told 
me she believes the split was due less to differing organizational goals and more to men finding female leadership hard to swallow.

The complex tensions between men and women in 
the community haven’t gone away, and they often bubble to the surface during BSAY’s annual meetings on 
gender, which I’ve seen turn into shouting matches. 
At the beginning of our term in 2014, the BSAY board 
billed the year’s conversation as one about gender in 
the Black community, rather than at Yale in general, so 
that dialogue might feel less fraught.

That day, people filled the Lighten Room in the 
basement of the House. More than twenty Black students pulled up chairs while chatting and formed a 
circle, music playing softly in the background. It felt 
normal. 

Then the meeting began. For an hour, only one of 
the many Black men in the room spoke. The rest sat, 
arms crossed, refusing to open their mouths. This was 
not abnormal. Union members often attended BSAY 
meetings in order to combat claims that BMU isolated 
itself from other House organizations, but they rarely 
contributed to meetings. This silence, however, felt 
different. Not disinterest, but disrespect. This meeting 
wasn’t about the BMU. It was about Black men and 
women trying to begin to heal an age-old impasse. 
But what does it mean when the men most resistant 
to engage with the rest of the community are primarily 
BMU members?

Searcy, looking back at the meeting, said the men’s 
silence was not a BMU directive. Rather, he saw the 
meeting as “not an open dialogue.” He recalls feeling 
berated, and he said that his attendance was as a BSAY 
member rather than as a representative of the BMU. 
This was the environment in which we wrote the 
sixty-plus-page petition, which lacked the signatures of 
many black men. After its delivery at the open forum in 
February, we waited. Weeks later, in the midst of spring 
break, I found out that Dean Cohen had resigned. Just 
like that, it was over.
—
On a March morning, I wake up to the sound of my 
phone. My room is dark. 
“Are you up?” 
It’s Micah. I’m late.
“Sure I am.”
I’m scrambling, searching for clothes, underwear, 
socks. Fuck. Several weeks after we found out Cohen 
had resigned, and yet things still seemed to be in shambles. 

I stop dead. I was supposed to wake up early and 
write a speech for the Unite Yale rally today, a direct 
action aimed at building power among the people 
involved in activism surrounding the neglect of the 
cultural centers, mental health reform, and divesting 
from fossil fuels. I won’t be delivering the speech—I’ve 


**Title:  Untitled**
**Page number(s): 32**

been replaced by Eli, a Black freshman and future vice 
president of BSAY, because we think my active presence might be counterproductive after my visibility in 
removing Cohen. Eli has a test today, so the task of 
writing her speech has fallen to me.

Micah and I rush to the House. Sitting in the office, 
thinking about how to articulate the importance of our 
recent victory, I think again of Bisa Williams’s advice 
to make it out of Yale, to not do everything ourselves. 
I also think of Larry Irvin—a student who almost did 
not graduate.

Irvin’s story begins in the spring semester of 1974, 
when the Yale Political Union invited William Shockley to debate Congress of Racial Equality President Roy 
Innis. By 1974, Shockley, a 1956 winner of the Nobel 
Prize in physics, had become a eugenicist and would 
speak on his belief that Black people were biologically 
inferior. 

As the day of the talk approached, the Third World 
Coalition, led by BSAY, distributed fliers about the 
protest. Several hundred students crowded outside that 
afternoon while a group of upperclassmen and coalition leaders went inside and shouted Shockley down. 
Yale gave thirteen “judicial penalties” for their participation. One was BSAY moderator Larry Irvin. Yale gave 
the students summer suspensions.

With the immediate threat of Shockley’s inflammatory rhetoric gone, activist attention waned. When Irvin 
returned to school in the fall of 1974, he held several 
meetings in the House, but few people came. He struggled on through the semester, which prompted Yale 
to ask him to take the year off. When the new BSAY 
moderator, Bisa Williams, asked Irvin if he wanted the 
Black community to advocate on his behalf, he said no. 
Irvin finished his degree, but a year late. He was not 
the only casualty of Black student action whose academic trajectory was waylaid by the consequences of 
their activist work. Craig Foster ’73, a key Black leader, 
estimated in an archived interview that of ninety-six to 
one hundred Black seniors in his class, only fifty-five 
graduated.

I do not know Irvin personally. I do not know where 
he is from, and most importantly, I do not know what 
happened to him after. But I understand him. Suddenly, I realize what the speech is about. 

I scrawl it out and speed walk from the House to 
the basement of Bingham where Eli is waiting. We’re 
assembled. Two-hundred and fifty Yale students on 
Cross Campus in front of Sterling Memorial Library—
chanting, clapping, crying. Our hand-painted signs 
catch what little light peeks from behind the clouds. 
One by one, each speaker goes up, many asking their 
communities to come up with them. 

It’s Eli’s turn. She says: 
“Just recently, I found a photo of my Dad taken by 
my Mom while he was here—standing somewhere on 
Beinecke, speaking out in front of Woodbridge Hall. 
It’s students like him—who in the eighties were fighting for divestment from South Africa, […] that created 
a legacy so that current Black Yalies could win this 
semester. Their energy is here right now—the Craig 
Fosters, the Larry Irvins, the Sylvia Boones, the Glenn 
DeChaberts, my mother and father. The spirit that 
reminds us that, as Assata said best, ‘we have the duty 
to fight for our people and we have the duty to win.’”
A friend of mine once told me that someone called 
the House a “spiritually dead place,” and I think they’re 
halfway right. The last five years of struggle stripped the 
House of its home-like feeling. Sometimes I wonder 
about what came out of our fight for the House. With 
the hiring of Dean Risë Nelson, and with the energy 
brought by the March of Resilience, we are beginning 
to rebuild. 

What is left are ghosts. The House may seem drained, 
but I can feel spirits in every part of the House. The 
founders, past directors, and the undergraduate selves 
of people like Irvin and Williams are all still living in 
this space. Some of them are there to drag us back into 
the worst parts of our collective pasts, preventing us 
from moving forward. Others are there to help us along 
the way.

After a long absence, I happened to walk into the 
House before heading to a meeting. I walked downstairs, where I ran into a friend on the verge of a breakdown, sitting on the stairs and holding back tears. I put 
my meeting off; we talked while she cried. I couldn’t 
make it better, but I could sit with her.

When we walked back to the hallway, she said, almost 
to herself, that I happened to show up right when she 
needed someone. It was like my energy, lingering in 
the space, had summoned me there. 

It was like I was already one of the ghosts.
— Eshe Sherley is a senior 
in Morse College.


**Title: TLAXCAL DREAMS of NEW HAVEN**
**Author: Sebi Medina-Tayac**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Mothers from our sister city find a hole in the 
border to visit their migrant children, who 
cope with an American Dream deferred
article and photographs 
by Sebi Medina-Tayac


David Mendieta leans over the railing at John F. 
Kennedy International Airport, holding his baby boy 
and glancing often at the arrivals board with heavy eye­
lids. A 25-year-old contractor, Mendieta woke up his 
wife and son before dawn for the two-hour drive from 
their house in West Haven to pick up his mother at 
the terminal. His son bats a “Welcome Home” balloon. 
Tired families trickle into the lobby, all waiting for 
their mothers to arrive from Mexico. Anxiety mounts 
as light spills through the large windows, reflecting off 
of sterile marble tiles. They should have been here by 
now. Are they lost? Stuck in customs?
Finally, his mother, Doña Rosa Romero, speed-walks 
through the hallway, her eyes scanning the crowd. 
When she sees David, she drops her aged suitcase to 
run and hug him tight. Today, Sunday, Jan. 31, 2016, 
they embrace for the first time in a decade. When they 
break apart, Mendieta introduces Romero to her grand­
son and her daughter-in-law. The four of them huddle 
together as a family for the first time. All around them, 
the throng of reunited families grows, smiling through 
happy tears. They pose for photos, soon to hit Face­
book, accumulating Likes from relatives back home 
in San Francisco, Tetlanohcan, Tlaxcala, and its sister 
city, New Haven, Connecticut.
David left their town at 15, compelled by economic 
necessity. He followed the perilous migrant trail north 
to New Haven, a path well trodden by many other men 
and women from Tlaxcala; an estimated fifteen percent 
of Tetlanohcan lives in New Haven. Most are undocu­
mented migrants and cannot visit home in Mexico for 
fear of not being able to make it back across the tighten­
ing and increasingly dangerous border. Their mothers 
back in Mexico, as self-sustaining farmers (campesinas) 
with little to no income, cannot obtain visas to visit 
their relatives. 
Yet Romero and twenty-two other women devised a 
way come to New Haven despite the distance, cruel pol­
icies, and fear. They are traveling across Connecticut 
and New York to perform their play, La Casa Rosa (The 
Pink House) at universities and theaters that vouched 
for them during the unpredictable process of secur­
ing a visa. Only as actresses—not as mothers—could 
they access three-month visas that allow them visit 
their children and family members. They conceived 
La Casa Rosa in collaboration with Daniel Carlton, a 
Above: Indigenous Migrant Family Support Center (CAFAMI) members rehearse their play, La Casa Rosa, at Lehman 
College in the Bronx. It’s the last stop on their tour through the northeast, for which they were granted visas to visit. 
Doña Rosa, second from right, has been staying in West Haven with her son who she hasn’t seen in ten years. 
Previous Page: On a train for the first time in her life, 
Dona Chave rides the metro north from new haven to 
New York City for a performance of La Casa Rosa.



**Title: ONLY AS ACTRESSES — NOT AS MOTHERS — COULD THEY ACCESS THREE-MONTH VISAS THAT ALLOW THEM VISIT THEIR CHILDREN AND FAMILY MEMBERS**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ONLY AS ACTRESSES 
— NOT AS MOTHERS —
COULD THEY ACCESS 
THREE-MONTH VISAS THAT 
ALLOW THEM VISIT THEIR 
CHILDREN AND FAMILY 
MEMBERS


**Title: La Casa Rosa: A Transnational Theatre Production**
**Page number(s): 37-39**

APRIL 2016
 37
New York-based playwright, who came to Tetlanohcan 
in 2009. Since then, the women have toured La Casa 
Rosa in America twice, in 2010 and 2012, rehearsing 
for each tour at the Indigenous Migrant Family Sup­
port Center (CAFAMI) in Tetlanohcan. 
Marco Castillo, a cultural anthropologist, worked 
with other academics, young people, and women in the 
community to found CAFAMI in 2007. Castillo arrived 
in Tetlanohcan in 2001 and saw how globalization was 
affecting the town: simultaneously eroding local, indig­
enous lifestyles and leading to large-scale migration to 
the United States. CAFAMI fights those forces. Now 
coordinated by lifelong Tetlanohcan resident Monica 
Lima, CAFAMI offers legal assistance, Nahuatl and 
English language classes, and workshops on human 
rights, specifically those of women and migrants. 
CAFAMI helps people understand (and then work 
around, as with La Casa Rosa) transnational forces 
that affect the town. Since leaving the town for Mex­
ico City, Castillo has reproduced this model to help 
other rural and indigenous communities across Mexico 
harness their creativity and “cultural capital … to find 
holes in the border” and visit loved ones.
La Casa Rosa portrays family separation and migra­
tion from Tlaxcala to the United States. Although peo­
ple have left Tetlanohcan to find work for decades, they 
used to stay in Mexico, moving to nearby cities like 
Puebla or Mexico City. Only in the past two decades 
have people started moving to the United States despite 
American immigration policies that, especially after 
September 11, restricted movement back to Mexico. 
Stories like those of Mendieta and Romero make up 
the backbone of the La Casa Rosa, confronting viewers 
with the issues of remittances, consumer culture, cul­
tural loss, and above all, family separation.
 “Half my heart is there, and half my heart is here,” 
said Doña Gloria Rodriguez, one of the actresses. 
Now, on stages across the Northeast, the women 
essentially play themselves.
After the dramatic reunion at JFK, the women gather 
by the escalator to discuss their trip. Ruth Hernandez, 
a Chicana doctoral candidate at the University of Con­
necticut, organized this year’s tour. She’s been involved 
since she saw the play during CAFAMI’s 2010 trip, 
which led her to write her doctoral dissertation on Tet­
lanohcan. She and Monica, the coordinator in Mexico 
for CAFAMI, hand out sheets at the airport with La 
Casa Rosa’s packed two-week schedule.
After performing the play, the women will stay with 
their children in the United States for two more months. 
They’ll cook with ingredients brought from Mexico in 
their heavy suitcases and care for grandchildren while 
their sons and daughters work. They’ll see that life in 
the U.S. is different from the American Dream that 
lured their children across the border. They’ll real­
ize that as the struggling campesina of Tetlanohcan 
looks wistfully North, the tired migrante looks wistfully 
South—both dreaming of places that don’t quite exist.
CAFAMI’s transnational efforts allow occasional 
family reunions and migrants work to maintain their 
distinct culture, closing the distance between Tetla­
nohcan and New Haven. But there are no clear solu­
tions for the pain of separation, and the families’ time 
together is fleeting. 


As the women of CAFAMI travel the Northeast, 
their neighbors in Tetlanohcan like Daniel Mendieta 
(no relation to David) continue to arrive to the U.S., 
seeking the American Dream. On a Brooklyn bus after 
work, Mendieta slowly peels off the Band-Aid around 
his index finger, wincing. His thick fingers, once accus­
tomed to office jobs, are now covered in burns from 
dishwashing detergent and cuts from kitchen work. It’s 
harder on his hands than the campo, he says, slouching 
back into his seat. He’s been living on a cot in his older 
sister Fabiola’s cramped Brooklyn apartment since he 
arrived in the United States two months ago, working 
in the basement of a Jewish cafe. He spends his days 
off with family in the enclave of Tetlanohcan migrants 
in Brooklyn, and he often takes the train up to New 
Haven to visit his brothers.
Mendieta’s arrival in the United States was unusual. 
Back in Mexico, he had a secure government office job 
in the state capital. He leveraged connections in the 
local government to obtain a visa to study U.S. gover­
nance. Since his arrival, though, Daniel’s experience 
has been typical. When he moved to the U.S., his nine-
to-five became a nine-to-ten, eleven, or even twelve. “I 
come in with the light of the sun, and leave with the 
light of the moon,” he says. “Well, sometimes you can’t 
even see the moon here.” Mexicans, he said, make 
everything in the United States run, like a machine.
When he gets back to the apartment, he absently 
stares at a telenovela on his sister’s gigantic TV, sipping 
a beer between yawns. If all goes according to plan, 
Daniel will bring his pregnant wife, Ana, and tod­
dler-age son, Axel, to the United States.
“It’s really hard to make a life here. Why am I shoul­
dering this?” he wonders. “The only thing that comes to 
mind is my family, the face of my son, and my daughter 
on the way. I have to keep the struggle going.” With the 
money he saves, he will be able to bring his family on 
a plane, instead of on foot like his pioneering siblings 
before him. He’ll go back to Mexico in July to get every­
thing ready, and he will try to move to New Haven with 
them in September. He hopes to save enough money to 
start a restaurant back in Mexico and eventually pursue 
elected office to change policy for the better. He stares 
up at the ceiling and closes his eyes. He has his dreams, 
but everything is uncertain—many Tlaxcaltecas in the 
United States, like Daniel, come with a two-year plan. 

Oscar Romero’s two-year plan is on year twenty-five. 
He came with his older sister, Doña Rosa, to the U.S. 
in 1990 in search of work. They first moved to New 
York City, but they quickly left for New Haven after a 
friend told them that there were more jobs, lower costs, 
and fewer crowds at the other end of a Metro North 
line. Since age 17, Oscar has lived in the Elm City. 
Dona Rosa stayed for ten years, but she returned to 
Tlaxcala in 2000. She missed her parents and 13-year-
old son David, who she would lose again within two 
years when he moved north.
Oscar was one of the first members of New Haven’s 
now-prominent Tlaxcalteca community. He applied 
his skills in flooring and carpeting and built a small 
contracting business, hiring a few Tlaxcalteca employ­
ees. “There’s no work [in Tlaxcala]. The pay is bad 
and there’s lots of competition,” he said, explaining 
his choice to stay. Oscar obtained legal status when he 
married. With that, he could return home a few times 
every year to see family, reconnect with the commu­
nity, and monitor his investments.
But the life he has built here still feels fragile. In 
2008, when the economy crashed, his business tanked 
and he had to lay off his employees. Now, he works 
independently—his latest job is flooring the city’s 
Kensington Square apartments. He works on his knee­
pads in the gutted building, meticulously measuring, 
cutting, and pasting linoleum. “Here you can find a 
job, but you never stop working. The country is nice, 
but there is so much stress. There’s always debts, always 
bills to pay, but one gets used to it. I do like it here,” he 
said, nodding. 
Another of the first generation of migrants from Tet­
lanohcan, Benjamin Cuapio, was a member of New 
Haven’s activist group Unidad Latina en Acción (ULA). 
Like Oscar’s brother Juan, Cuapio fought a labor abuse 
case with the help of ULA director John Jairo Lugo. 
Cuapio snuck a camera into his worksite after he and 
other migrant workers, desperate for employment, had 
been hired to strip asbestos out of a building down­
town without any physical or respiratory protection. 
He documented the deplorable, and illegal, conditions 
and levied charges against his employer. The ensuing 
1997 lawsuit highlighted the plight of undocumented 
Mexican workers in New Haven for the first time. Over 
the next decade, Cuapio continued to fight for migrant 
workers’ rights in New Haven. Due in no small part 
to his work with Lugo and ULA, New Haven became 
a sanctuary city with some of the most pro-immigrant 
policies in the country, encouraging many undocu­
mented migrants to live in the city limits. Cuapio has 
retired from fighting to settle back into his quiet, bare 
concrete house at the top of a hill overlooking the Tlax­
cala valley. Below him, constellations of electric lights 
twinkle from houses. 
Cuapio has remained committed to la lucha, “the 
struggle,” by donating a piece of his land to CAFAMI 
for their community center, which he helps upkeep. 
There, Romero and the others rehearsed and prepared 
herbal products and hand-sewn textiles to present and 
sell to U.S. audiences. They carve out time for La Casa 
Rosa from their constant work in their fields, their busi­
nesses, and their houses. 

The women of CAFAMI traveled through the 
United States with the jovial bounce of tourists on 
vacation—after their New York City performance, they 
shoved onto a train in the Bronx, insisting on visiting 
Times Square. They visited the University of Connecti­
cut, Lehman College, Connecticut College, and New 
Haven’s Bregamos, a Latino community theater in Fair 
Haven built from a repurposed warehouse.
The play, like every Sunday in Tetlanohcan, opens 
with a somber Catholic mass. It moves to an argument 
between two sisters over the virtues and ills of economic 
development in the town, as compared to traditional 
farming lifestyles. Then the chorus of campesinas files 
onto the stage. They work in the fields, hacking with 
wooden machetes at an invisible harvest. Under the 
hot lights of the stage, they wipe real sweat from their 
brows. A condensed version of the play follows: 
A YOUNG WOMAN (turning to her mother): Mom, 
I’m going to the United States.
MOTHER (horrified): The answer is no. You don’t 
have to go. 
YOUNG WOMAN: Mom, please, I do have to go. I 


**Title: San Francisco Tetlanohcan**
**Page number(s): 39**

San Francisco 
Tetlanohcan
San Francisco Tetlanohcan is a rural town in the highlands of central Mexico 
in the small state of Tlaxcala, under the dormant volcano La 
Matintzin. New Haven has been the largest destination 
of migrants from the town since the 1990s, and 
they were deemed “sister cities” in 2010. An 
estimated fifteen percent of the town of 
10,000 lives in New Haven.
Mexico City



**Title: Untitled**
**Author:  Sebi Medina-Tayac**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
want to go work, and live.
MOTHER (getting closer to her daughter): And what 
we do here isn’t working and living? 
YOUNG WOMAN: I need to see the world.
MOTHER: But this is the world, too.
YOUNG WOMAN: Maybe for you.
MOTHER: I need you! How could you do this to 
me? Don’t you love me? Why can’t you be happy here?
YOUNG WOMAN: I need more.
MOTHER: More than your culture, your history? 
Don’t you feel a responsibility to preserve your tradi­
tion?
YOUNG WOMAN: It’s boring, and it makes me sad. 
I’m sorry; this is your fight, not mine.
CHORUS OF CAMPESINAS: The day my family 
member left, I was very sad and I cried a lot. The day 
my family member left, I told her how much I loved 
her, how much I missed her, how much I hoped she’d 
come back. The day my family member left, I asked the 
Virgin of Guadalupe and God to protect her. The day 
my family member left, I worried for her. 
CAMPESINAS exit.
In the audience, Mendieta’s chin quivered. Other 
migrants in the audience wept openly while watching 
the women reenact one of the hardest days of their 
lives. After the play, the women stepped down off the 
stage into their family members’ arms. The families 
were exuberant as they danced, chatted, and drank. 
A local band played popular Mexican cumbia music 
and Coronas flowed out of the open bar. Quite the cast 
party. 

In his cousin’s cramped kitchen, Daniel sits by his 
aunt, Doña Silver, who is staying in Brooklyn with her 
daughter after the tour with CAFAMI. She prepares 
dough for gorditas, thick and saucy tortillas, enjoying 
her remaining weeks with her daughter. She laments 
not being able to use the corn from their family plot 
for the dough—she has to settle for bleached white 
Maseca (dry dough) found in Latino supermarkets 
across the United States. That seems to be the only 
domestic ingredient. She brought chiles and other dry 
vegetables from Mexico to make the orange salsa with 
which she doused the chubby oval gorditas. Her two 
children here in New York will miss her cooking when 
she leaves, since work often prevents them from prepar­
ing time-intensive traditional dishes. But in the three 
months she’s been here, her two children back home 
miss her cooking, too. 

Back at JFK on April 17, the migrant families say 
goodbye to their mothers. Not a single person inter­
viewed in that airport had slept the night before—they 
stayed awake packing, talking, and bracing themselves 
for this moment. The script of “the day my family mem­
ber left” is reversed as sons and daughters watch their 
mothers shuffle through security to catch their flight 
back to Mexico. This time, there are more tears than 
at the reunion in February. Although the CAFAMI 
trips alleviate some of the longing over the course of 
a few surreal and hectic months, the women’s inev­
itable departure for home reopens a wound that has 
yet to scar over. No one knows how long they will go 
without seeing their mothers again. Mendieta hugs his 
son close to his chest as his mother walks away, looking 
over her shoulder, eyes strained. In the Mexico City 
airport, her husband and children eagerly await her 
return. They’ve never been without her for so long, and 
they miss her.
— Sebi Medina-Tayac is a 
senior in Davenport College 


**Title: HE HAS HIS DREAMS, BUT EVERYTHING IS UNCERTAIN — MANY TLAXCALTECAS IN THE U.S., LIKE DANIEL, COME WITH A TWO-YEAR PLAN. OSCAR ROMERO’S TWO-YEAR PLAN IS ON YEAR TWENTY-FIVE.**



---

**Title: WHAT'S IN A GAME END NOTE Finding New Haven in BORDERLANDS, pistol in hand**
**Author: Elena Saavedra Buckley**
**Page number(s): 41-42**

Early on in BORDERLANDS, I pick up a pink gun 
called the “Lady Finger” from behind a grave. It’s a 
curvy, single-barreled pistol, and I grip it in my right 
hand’s fingerless glove. When I press “tab” to look at its 
specs, the words “Omnia vincit amor” (“Love conquers 
all”) pop up in red. I, Lilith—a Human Siren from the 
planet Dionysus—store it in my backpack, next to my 
submachine gun, and continue towards New Haven.

The Lady Finger quickly becomes my favorite 
weapon, mostly because its magnifying scope lets me 
shoot enemies from far away. I can feel safe from a 
distance and clever from the periphery, standing on a 
sandy cliff or crouching behind a sheet of rusty metal. 
Things get complicated, though, when I’m attacked by 
“skags,” the resident pests of BORDERLANDS, which 
look like mutant wild dogs. They run great distances to 
attack me, and a scope doesn’t help much when one’s 
gnawing at my legs.

Up-close encounters are an unavoidable part of the 
road to New Haven, the virtual city I’m trying to reach 
on the planet Pandora. It’s a part of the universe of 
BORDERLANDS, the popular role-playing, first-per­
son shooter video game made by Gearbox Software 
in 2009. BORDERLANDS’s version of New Haven is 
described online as:
…the zone and town that is located in a vast junkyard 
between The Dahl Headlands and The Rust Com­
mons West. It was founded by the former inhabitants 
of what is now Old Haven.

Old Haven is currently occupied by The Crimson 
Lance, a private military force that took over after “the 
colonization of Pandora went bad.” The BORDER­
LANDS story exists in the aftermath of that turn, which 
happened when rumors of an ancient vault filled with 
alien weapon technology went public. 

I start a single-player game with the purple-haired 
Lilith, the only female avatar. She was cast out of New 
Haven by a cyborg named Wilhelm. I—we—jump off 
a rickety bus in a town called Fyrestone and begin our 
journey to her old home. 

My desire to reach New Haven comes from an incan­
descent hope that the virtual New Haven will parallel 
the real-life city. The only nod towards Connecticut on 
the BORDERLANDS Wikia is in the “Trivia” section, 
which reads: “The famous Winchester Repeating Arms 
Company was located in ‘New Haven,’ Connecticut,” 

meaning the only obvious connection between the 
virtual city and its real-life counterpart is “guns.”  But 
part of me still believes that unlocking the BORDER­
LANDS map could, in turn, unlock a crucial part of this 
city’s character.

Lilith, New Haven, and the entire BORDERLANDS 
universe first existed in the head of Matthew Armstrong. 
He was the lead designer of BORDERLANDS and 
BORDERLANDS 2, and while he left Gearbox Soft­
ware a year ago for what he tweeted were “new adven­
tures,” he hasn’t forgotten the games. After getting in 
touch with him (on Twitter) and telling him about my 
quest to New Haven, we exchange a series of emails—
he doesn’t respond to requests for a phone call. His 
answers are always written in orange. (“Because they’re 
LEGENDARY,” he explains.) 

“The theme of BORDERLANDS has always been 
‘isolated people finding family,’” he wrote. “Mind you, 
this is in the middle of people shooting and killing and 
acting all crazy, but that’s just the fun coating on the 
outside.” Traveling across barren landscapes, I along 
with other Vault Hunters are at the mercy of stoic rock 
formations, apocalyptic decay, and endless skags. Brief 
moments of safety serve as stepping stones to the trea­
sure. 

“New Haven is home,” Armstrong writes me when 
I ask about its place in the game. “You really want the 
player to feel a connection to the hubs because that 
adds some bit of weight to the combat.” That connec­
tion is difficult for the designers, though. It forces them 
to quickly forge a sense of belonging before the player 
moves onto the next location, especially since the map 
is a mystery until a player reaches it. 

While the game starts out with simple missions, it gets 
tough when I have to confront “bosses,” the more pow­
erful villains blocking the way to new locations. I tell 
Armstrong that I’m having trouble defeating the brawny 
Bone Head, and he cautions me that there’s more to it 
than the final result. 

BORDERLANDS, he says, is more than just its 
“golden path” of Main Quests. To advance, I have to 
complete Side Quests, too. They don’t lead me to New 
Haven directly, but with each completed Side Quest, 
I become a more integrated resident of Pandora. After 
collecting some magical seeds for a friend in Skag Gully, 
I level up. I approach Bone Head from behind, destroy 
his shield with two shots to the head, and take him down 
with a couple close-range bullets. I realize that I can’t 
get by with keeping at a distance, such as that allowed 
by the Lady Finger—I can’t play BORDERLANDS if I 
don’t interact with the world of it. 

After leaving Fyrestone, I make it to the Dahl Head­
lands. It’s more of a dingy campout than a civilized 
settlement, crawling with tiny axe-wielding men called 
“psychos.” I’m right outside the gate to New Haven, but 
now, the gate is locked. When I defeat Mad Mel in a 
flaming monster truck stadium, a robot called a claptrap 
leads me to the barrier. It types in a code with its insect 
arms, and I teleport inside.  

In New Haven, houses have decayed into landfill 
heaps. The sky droops in chemical yellow, held up by 
smoke stacks. After passing under a corroded metal arch, 
I wander through what used to be a town intersection, 
where characters loiter in front of makeshift shacks. I 
can press “E” to talk to them—“Ever thought about 
settling down? We could use someone like you around 
here,” one says. The supplies I previously found in high-
tech boxes now hide in old washing machines. Nothing 
here is familiar to me. The streets made of packed dirt 
and are nothing like the ones I use to get to class. 

“We didn’t name it after New Haven,” Armstrong 
writes. The map is merely “an early town in a dangerous 
frontier,” meant to give “a sense of safety and provide a 
reminder about the town the settlers left behind.” 

I’m disappointed, but not surprised. I’m not even sure 
how the New Haven I know could be communicated 
through a desert landscape, especially an animated one. 
Even in a virtual world, there’s no being in two places 
at once, and trying to learn about a real city—the one I 
live in—through the eyes of a video game character is a 
little like trying to use the Lady Finger as an all-purpose 
weapon: clumsy. 

But even without the familiarity, I feel sustainably 
safe. Skags, bandits, and psychos don’t flood out of every 
open door. For the first time, no one wants to kill me. I 
make myself at home. 

— Elena Saavedra Buckley is a sophomore in Silliman 
College. She is an editor-in-chief of The New Journal.



**WRITE WITH US:**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 43-44**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
WRITE WITH US:
Emily Bazelon ‘93, Slate & The New York Times Magazine
Neela Banerjee ‘86, InsideClimate News 
James Bennet ‘88, Editor-in-Chief of The Atlantic
Eric Boodman ‘15, STAT , the digital newsroom covering health and medicine
Julia Calagiovanni ‘15, editorial fellow at The Atlantic 
Jay Carney ‘87, former White House Press Secretary
Richard Conniff ‘73, National Geographic & The New York Times opinion 
Ruth Conniff ‘90, The Progressive
Elisha Cooper ‘93, author of children ‘s books
Jackie Cooperman ‘95, Wall Street Journal 
Andy Court ‘83, 60 Minutes 
Susan Dominus ‘92, The New York Times Magazine 
Max Ehrenfreund ‘12, Washington Post 
Dana Goodyear ‘98, The New Yorker 
Paul Goldberger ‘72, Vanity Fair editor at large
Anya Kamenetz ‘02, NPR 
Tina Kelley ‘85, New York Times & Covenant House
Elizabeth Kolbert ‘83, The New Yorker
Benjamin Mueller ‘14, The New York Times 
Sophia Nguyen ‘14, Harvard Magazine 
Laura Pappano ‘84, The New York Times 
Julia Preston ‘73, The New York Times 
Noah Remnick ‘15, The New York Times 
Hampton Sides ‘84, author and journalist
Gabriel Snyder ‘98, Editor-in-Chief of The New Republic 
Aliyya Swaby ‘13, New Haven Independent
John Swansburg ‘00, Slate
Ike Swetlitz ‘15, STAT 
Jada Yuan ‘00, New York Magazine  
Daniel Yergin ‘68, Pulitzer Prize-winning author
contact editors@thenewjournalatyale.com
Congratulations to The New Journal‘s Class of 2016: 
Maya Averbuch, Hayley Byrnes, Jennifer Lu, 
Kendrick McDonald, Douglas Plume, Lara Sokoloff, 
Caroline Sydney, Ed Wang, Mariah Xu 

