Publication date: November 28, 1971
Volume: five
Issue number: three


**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors: Richard Conniff, Suzanne Wittebort
- Managing Editor: Ron Roel
- Executive Editor: Michael Csar
- Designer: Judith Fletcher
- Copy Editor: Tom Joseph
- Business Manager: Ray Rund
- Contributing Editors: Daniel Yergin, Jonathan Marks, Stephen Thomas, Sam Miller, Susan Holahan, Joel Rogers, Leo Ribuffo, Michael Lerner, Steven R. Weisman
- Staff: Rachel Hooper, Kiki Gordon, Alan Cameron, Suzanne Wofford, Roople Hacher, Kathy Lally, Dee Siegelbaum, Marguey Yates
- Publisher: Paul Goldberger


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
Comment - 3
Lunch at the Library. DeLieto and Lee on Wry. - 6
Movies into ? - 10
Poems from Viet Nam - 14
Schlock at the Shubert - 


**Title: The Niche Pitch**
**Author: Roger Warner**
**Page number(s): 2**

There are niches in most Gothic buildings around Yale, in the Branford courtyard, in Sterling Library, the gym, the Law School, the entrance to J.Javenport, and so on, but most of the niches are empty. Only Harkness Tower has been filled completely, and that with statues so high up you have to crane your neck to find them, though they include such notables as Jonathan Edwards, Euclid, Homer, and James Fenimore Cooper (expelled from Yale in his junior year). 

Why has Yale foregone the opportunity to provide models of inspiration and righteousness for its students? We asked Wesley Needham, adviser in Tibetan literature for the university library and a fellow of Trumbull College. Needham, who now works for a furniture store in New Haven, learned firsthand about Gothic architecture as a draftsman for James Gamble Rogers (Yale's Louis Sullivan) in the 1920's. 

Mr. Needham explained that the niche, like the stained glass window, served an essential purpose in the ecclesiastical Gothic style of the Middle Ages. It was the shape of an arch, pointed to heaven, and it held a statue of an apostle, saint, or martyr. When the Reformation came, however, many of the religious statues were disposed of and the niches left empty. When Gothic architecture was adapted to collegiate purposes, such as at Oxford and Cambridge, some of the niches were filled with historical figures and scholars, but many remained unfilled. The niche became an embellishment without function, an art form all its own. 

-when James Gamble Rogers designed the Yale buildings," Needham said, "he used photographs of Oxford and elsewhere, not to copy but as guides so he wouldn't go astray. The Law School is an exception, but he wanted to develop the Gothic style as it would have developed on its own, if the Gothic tradition had remained unbroken." 

The empty niches did not pose a problem at first. "When the buildings were built," Needham said, indicating Saybrook, Branford, and Davenport in one broad sweep, "it wasn't a serious matter if the niches weren't filled. It could come later. Maybe they could get a donor to give some money." 

Later could be now. An impromptu survey shows that Yale students have varying ideas on whom to put in the niches. Some would like to see the great brains of this century, the Albert Einsteins and James Joyces. Others favor the great jocks of Yale history, notably Brian Dowling, Calvin Hill, and the mythical Frank Merriwell. (Payne Whitney Gym has plenty of niches.) But most have indicated a desire for American cultural heroes, from Davey Crockett to Mickey Mouse. The actress Diana Rigg scored high; did a lot of counter-culture figures like Jerry Garcia and Ken Kesey. 

Some would like to see Buckminster Fuller, facing east toward Science Hill. Others would like to have Jerry Rubin sitting down on his niche, rapping with the kids. Still others including William F. Buckley would like to see William F. Buckley or nothing at all. 

Perhaps a movement could be formed to fill the niches, to bring about the greening of Yale. Think about it. Decide whom you believe in, contact a sculptor, and then worship at the niche of your choice. 


**Title: Meir Kahane**
**Author: William Bulkeley**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

Religious figures don't usually attract big crowds at Yale, but tonight the little rabbi with the yarmulke faces a crowd of 400 from where he stands at the Political Union's rostrum. A sizeable number of New Haven residents have joined students at the university to hear him speak. The citizens are middle-aged, respectable. By the end of the evening one of them will have risen to accuse the speaker of hypocrisy. Another will quote the Talmud to him and call him a murderer. 

The speaker is Rabbi Meir Kahane, leader and founder of the militant Jewish Defense League. In the past year he has spent more time in jail and has made more headlines than either Huey Newton or Jerry Rubin. And what does the rabbi talk about tonight? Jewish kids. 

"It is time for young Jews to open up a Jewish book. Philip Roth is not a Jewish book. The young Jew is raised not to be a true Jew, but to make the local caterer happy on his bar mitzvah." The students laugh. The adults smile uneasily. 

Rabbi Kahane addresses himself to the adults about their children, many of whom are gathered in front of him. He tells them that being a Jew loses its meaning when Jews do not fight for their rights. 

"To love a Jew means, for another Jew, feeling the pain of Israel as your own." He tells the audience about Silva Zalmanson, one of the Jews arrested in Russia for allegedly trying to hijack a plane. She is now in a Siberian jail where, he says, the temperature drops to 40 degrees below zero in the winter. "Any Jew who hears the cries of Silva Zalmanson and doesn't heed them is dead as a Jew. They will be as guilty as the Jews were 30 years ago," he says. 

The motto of the Jewish Defense League is "Never Again," referring to what Rabbi Kahane considers the shameful passivity of Jews during World War II. It is more than a motto for the rabbi. It is a creed, almost a religion in itself, based on a combination of ethnic guilt and ethnic pride. He harps on these two themes as he attempts to rebuild American Judaism. 

He mocks the "Uncle Jakes" who do not follow his militant lead because they are "obsessed by the need for respectability." He sneers at the Jews who were unable to persuade President Franklin D. Roosevelt to bomb the rail lines to Auschwitz or allow Jewish refugees to immigrate to the United States during the war. "We couldn't get 200 Jews to go down to Washington and chain themselves to the White House gates," he says disparagingly. He warns that, "with a few exceptions, a Jew's only ally is another Jew," and he blasts those who will not fling themselves into the battle. 

"I have stood at the Soviet embassy for two years, waiting for the people we marched with in Selma, in Washington, at the peace rallies, to join us. When it's a Jewish problem, who marches? Jews. So," he warns, "we come to the question of violence." He goes to the Bible and the Talmud, and continued on page 13


**Title: The Imitation of Mayor Daley**
**Author: William Marshall**
**Page number(s): 3-4**

When Richard C. Lee announced his retirement from politics in 1969, many who knew him were convinced that only retirement could save his life. During his sixteen years as mayor of New Haven, Lee had wrought tremendous physical changes in the city, and the sheer effort of the badgering of state and federal officials, the selling of the programs locally, and the publicizing of the old programs in anticipation of the new programs that were always ready in the wings had itself wrought tremendous changes in Lee. In 1967 he was too ill even to campaign extensively for re-election, and by the time of the inauguration of his successor, Lee was frail and old well beyond his 53 years. 

However, two years out of public office seemed to have served as a remarkable tonic for him. He still could be observed gobbling antacid pills as he waited to deliver his review of Mike Royko's Boss, but he looked younger and healthier than he had in years. 

The New Haven public library made a good match when it paired Lee and Boss. The parallels between Mayor Richard Daley of Chicago and Mayor Richard Lee are striking. Daley is fond of highways and monuments (preferably in the form of high-rise apartment buildings) to his abilities as a redeveloper. Lee has faced charges which have the same ring in terms of his support for the luxury high-rises of the Oak Street Redevelopment Project, Route 34, and the New Haven Coliseum. 

Miss Wilder of "Friends of the Library" noted further parallels as she introduced him: born and raised in an "Irish ethnic enclave," entered politics fresh out of high school, experienced "civil disorders" as mayor of an American city, and channeled millions of dollars of federal money into major renewal projects. Miss Wilder did make two distinctions, however, which in her mind made Lee emerge the better man. While Daley had ordered police to shoot to kill and maim during Chicago's 1968 disorders, Lee had settled New Haven's 1967 flare-up without a shot being fired. And finally, Daley had procured only $80 million in federal money during the 1950's, while Lee had scrambled for $95 million. 

continued on page


**Title: A cop may throw the book at you,**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

Larom Munson, director of the Munson Gallery on Orange Street and a police commissioner for the City of New Haven, stood at the podium in the basement auditorium of the United Church on the Green. It was 12:10 and the 150 people who had come to hear Police Chief Biagio DeLieto review Albert Reiss' The Police and the Public were getting nervous. The New Haven Public Library had designed their "Books Sandwiched In" program for lunch hour enlightenment, and many in the crowd had exactly that: one hour. Now, ten minutes of it were gone and they had not been enlightened one bit. There were of course many retirees in attendance, who had nothing but time, and there were also several leading yankee attorneys, who had nothing but money and therefore, if the converse of the old saw is true, a great deal of time also. But many of the people were in fact secretaries and had to get back to the office. 

Somehow the gold cross on the podium did not seem inappropriate for Munson, a man so obviously at peace as to be at least ordained, and possibly divine. He might well have passed for a Groton and Harvard educated priest and certainly did not resemble the cunning grafter that former Police Chief Ahern had implied he was the night before. Munson introduced the speaker: "Biagio DeLieto, as New Raven's chief of police, has made himself extremely visible in the community. This is is one in a series of efforts to present himself, and through himself, the police department." The chief sat at a table behind Commissioner Munson and shuffled his papers as his past achievements were enumerated for the audience. 

Biagio DeLieto thought he should have been New Raven's police chief in 1967. He had one of the best efficiency ratings in the department, he had earned something of a reputation as an innovator in police training procedures, and he had been with the force since 1946. Arthur T. Barbieri, the Democratic town chairman, also wanted Biagio to be chief. That in itself may have been enough to eliminate the possibility of appointment in the days of Mayor Richard C. Lee; but, in any event, Lee appointed James F. Ahern, and the rest is history. 

Ahern, prematurely gray and preternaturally liberal, went on to become the best known police chief outside of Philadelphia. Like his patron, Lee, Ahern quickly got on the Federal gravy train, pouring thousands of dollars from the Safe Streets and Crime Control Acts into re-studying the role of the police and re-organizing the department along lines dictated by the study. Even the policemen themselves could tell that there was a change in the air. Under Chief Ahern, officers were allowed to smoke (tobacco) on duty and mustaches were permitted with the personal approval of the chief. Ahern played a good game, taking credit for keeping May Day cool, getting appointed to the President's Commission on campus unrest, and appearing with Kingman Brewster on the Dick Cavett Show. 

Meanwhile, Biagio DeLieto, or "Benny" or "Biggy" or "Bags," depending on your degree of familiarity with the captain of the communications division, spent four years being introduced at Melebus Club (Barbieri's bomb shelter on Olive Street, where most of the real business of the city is conducted these days) testimonial dinners as "ladies and gentlemen, the man who should have been police chief of New Haven ... " At times, even the testimonial dinners were not enough and DeLieto considered taking advantage of the police early retirement program. But he hung on and, in so doing, proved once again that patience is oft rewarded. In November 1969, the voters of New Haven decided to throw the rascals in and, approximately one year after the inauguration of Bartholomew F. Guida as mayor, DeLieto was indeed the chief. 

Ahern had departed in a cloud of alleged political continued on page 5



**He said that his review would be defensive**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
continued from page 3 · 
He said that his review would be defensive. That was 
it. Nobody was going to catch him covering up for his 
own failures by pretending not to recognize them in 
others. He wasn't going to. pretend anything. He had 
made mistakes and Daley had made mistakes, but in the 
long run, ~he voters bore them both out. As he had 
always done everything else, Lee vigorously assailed the 
task of review. 
" He [Royko) charges Daley with hypocrisy, autoc-
racy, arrogance, petulance, high-handedness, indiffer-
ence, ignorance, and vindictiveness ... Dick Daley may be 
guilty of all these things; l'm-sure he's guilty of at least 
some. But the City of Chicago is made up of four million 
people. Daley has been mayor for sixteen years and last 
spring, when he ran for his fifth term, he was elected by 
72% of the vote. He must be doing something right." 
He went on to describe what: the world's busiest air-
port, the world's largest convention hall, and parking 
garages downtown, all under Daley's management. 
Royko suggests that in Chicago all of these things have 
been accomplished at the expense of the people. In the 
past five years in New Haven, the same suggestions have 
been made, the same claim that bulldozer renewal has 
prevailed at the expense of the average citizen and for 
the profit of the private entrepreneur. But Lee would 
not back down from his sixteen years. According to 
his statistics, Chicago has all of the monuments, as well 
as a family income 30 per cent above the national 
average. 
"The Old Man" continued in his personable way. 
Granted, Daley had a reputation for tampering with the 
electoral process, but, "whatever his reason was, he did 
support good people." He had made certain that Jack 
Kennedy carried Illinois, "on what wings, I will not 
discuss." Then there were the anecdotes. Kennedy, 
Prime Minister Harold Macmillan, and Daley, all clinging 
to a life raft which would only hold one person. They 
vote to see who will survive. Daley wins 11 -2. The 
audience laughed. They loved him. The week before, 
they had been polite to Delieto, but they loved Lee. 
Many of his old associates were present: Joel Cogen, 
former executive director of the Redevelopment 
Agency; Charles Gill, former alderman and himself a 
mayoral contender in 1969; Charlie Parker, campaign 
manager for Hank Parker in 1971. Even a group of 
students which had entered the auditorium. armed with 
notes and apparently eager for questions. seemed to be 
swayed. 
Lee charged that the book was unfair. Royko had not 
only challenged Daley's politics, but also his family life 
and religion. And Lee was right. If anything, Boss


Mr. Marshal is a freelance writer who has contributed to 
life, The Saturday Review, and Esquire. He is presently 
researching a book dealing with politics and urban 
renewal. 
suffers from its own excesses of vitriol. Royko's Daley 
can do nothing without malice aforethought. And 
Royko himself is so consumed by his hatred for Daley 
that it twists his own vision. Ethnic neighborhoods are 
the bigoted, racist fiefdoms of bully gangs when they 
produce Richard Daley. They are charming little self-
determining colonies when Daley obliterates them in 
favor of a University of Illinois campus. Boss' picture of 
. Daley is.so one-sided as to be slapstick. This makes the 
book both delightful to read and ineffective as a politi-
cal weapon. 
But Lee couldn't be just right in his appraisal of the 
book. He had to bring the crowd not only into agree-
ment, but into support. He had to control, and he knew 
how. He cited Royko's use of quotations from William 
Kunstler's cross-examination of Daley during the 
Chicago Conspiracy trial. At the mention of the name 
Kunstler, the audience let out a gasp. Now, that was 
unfair. As he had always managed to do, Lee had now 
won them over. 
He did not try to whitewash Daley, however. Lee 
took the mayor of Chicago to task for his racism, his 
nepotism, and his tolerance of criminals in public office. 
He deplored the 1968 "shoot-to-kill" order and the 
activities surrounding the Democratic convention. But 
he also cited the shortcomings of other mayors, short-
comings which could be equally fatal to the functioning 
of a large city, such as John Lindsay's " inability to 
suffer fools gladly." From his sixteen years as a mayor, 
Lee seemed to be saying that public responsibility 
required just the right admixture of vice to a strong base 
of virtue. He seemed to be saying that a mayor had to be 
able to call an uncooperative developer or government 
official a "prick," as well as be able to address luncheon 
groups in the basement of a church. 
Lee summarized by describing Daley as a "benevolent 
despot," and acknowledged that he had been described 
that way himself while mayor of New Haven. He seemed 
to enjoy the memory, just as his physical appearance 
suggested that he seemed to enjoy his distance from it. 
Then the question period started and a woman in the 
front row brought up the·oak Street issue. She charged 
Lee with being responsible for the present New Haven 
housing shortage because of the extensive demolition 
during the early renewal years. Lee denied her charge 
absolutely. Since 1950, there had been a tremendous 
migration of low income individuals and families to the 
city. This had caused the housing shortage, together with 
the failure of the suburbs to absorb their share of low 
income housing. The housing units he had demolished 
were unfit for occupancy. They lacked heat, electricity, 
and in some caseS, even running water. His voice reached 
a pitch. He was moving again. His programs were being 
challenged. Out of some reflex action which he had no 
doubt developed from hours in federal offices and 
aldermanic caucuses, he let loose with all the emotion 
befitting the issue, " Those units were not fit for dogs, 
let alone people!" The audience, carried along with him. 
clapped their approval. 
Meanwhile, five blocks away, workmen were finally 
busy constructing Crown Court, the last phase of the 
Oak Street Redevelopment Plan. After years of delay 
because of grudgingly given federal mortgages, the eight 
story luxury apartment building was finally going up, on 
the same block as the luxurious Crown Towers and 
across the street from the luxurious Madison Towers. 
Whether these buildings and all the demolitions required 
to put them there will, in the final analysis, stand as a 
monument to Lee's callousness or to his vision remains 
to be seen. Maybe he will be better remembered for 
Church Street South. or for the nation's first Section 
221-d-3 housing, or for the inception of a business 
relocation plan for small businesses being dislocated by 
renewal. Regardless. these buildings and much of New 
Haven will stand as a monument to his energy_e 


**but he probably hasn't read·it**
**Page number(s): 5**

continued from page 3 
terference and, not unexpectedly, }$ departure was met 
with cries of anguish from the liberal community. The 
sophisticated and erudite gentility of the former chief 
made him a perfect political plum for the anti~uida 
Democratic alliance, as well as for the liberal-leaning, 
once-and-future mayoral candidate, Paul Capra. Many 
of the top officials in the Lee administration had already 
fled New Haven, but DeLieto was the major, high-proftle 
appointment of the new mayor. Guida had chosen to 
leave vacant the important positions of director of 
administration, development administrator, and city en-
gineer' and had been frustrated in attempts to appoint 
a party regular to the position of zoning director. Now 
he was making his move, and it would have to be a good 
one. The new chief would have to prove that he was 
every bit as intelligent, every bit as personable, every 
bit as liberal, and every bit as competent as the man he 
replaced. 
Hence, the rush for the headlines, or, as Commission-
er Munson put it, "visibility in the community." De-
Lieto was uncommonly well suited to the task, being 
possessed of a seemingly insatiable ego, and he paraded 
to openings and dinners and every ceremonial occasion 
imaginable. Every morning, his secretary would place 
a set of glossies from the previous day's events on his 
desk for the chiefs review. 
But with all the glory of actually being chief, 
DeLieto still labored under the image of Ahem. As he 
strode to the podium to deliver his review, he could 
only be adjudged second best in his competition with 
the image. Greeting Jerry Lewis as he stepped off a 
ftre truck and onto a bandstand on the Green was just 
not the same as marshalling the city's forces against the 
Panthers from the front line. There was also some linger-
ing embsrrassment, as well as lingering litigants, con-
cerning $450,000 of cocaine which turned out to be 
50 cents worth of quinine. Upper echelon police 
morale was at an all-time low, what with the chiefs 
absences to be visible in the community, and the 
department had recently lost two division ~rnmanders, 
Heaphy in training, and Talbot of planning and bud-
geting. Nevertheless, the chief would try it again. 
From behind his dark, wide-lapeled suit, red shirt with 
•·nth black-stone-set-in-gold cuff links, and wide silver, 
red, and black tie, DeLieto made a somewhat shallow ad-
mission of awe "in the presence of so much sophistica-
tion." He further confessed, and later proved to the sat-
isfaction of one and all, that he had never reviewed a 
book before. 
There can be no doubt that the book in question 
was a good one for DeLieto to cut his teeth on. Any 
police chief could have had a fteld day with Reiss' ex-
haustive and exhausting sorties into the never-never 
land of the sociologist. The Police and the Public is a 
collection of bela borings of the obvious and lamenta-
tions of the real, all held together by the author's 
unshakeable conviction that the utopian is best of all. 
One is hard put to disagree with the author's conviction, 
and is therefore quite disappointed to ftnd that the en-
tire piece is completed without the slightest hint as to 
how one might go about correcting the little flaws that 
nature has so cruelly inserted into the crystal of man. 
It would certainly be impossible to fmd any fault 
with the thoroughness of Reiss' basic researches, which 
spanned ftve years, took place in four major cities, and 
included patrol observations as well as detailed analyses 
of police ftle statistics. However, the average reader 
does not feel a genuine need for an eight page analysis to 
establish once and for all that most antagonism toward 
the police comes from people they are arresting, as 
opposed to people who call the police requesting that 
someone else be arrested. 
Reiss very thoroughly documents the problems the 
police have with the public and vice vena, many of 
which start out as the simple failure of the police to be 
civil to offenders and the failure of an officer to recog-
nize the legitimacy of policy authority. However, once 
this information is imparted to the reader, nothing 
further is done with it than to suggest that people have 
simply got to be more polite to each other. 
From the several typographical errors in the printed 
text and from the book's title, which is more journaJ.is... 
tic than academic, it is apparent that the ·publishers 
rushed some in their hope to capitalize on the public's 
concern for the state of law enforcement in America. 
They need not have bothered, for The Police and the 
Public has only a very limited value to the average citi-
zen. Although some interesting points are made about 
the evolution of a national police force and some shock-
ing statistics are developed concerning the extent of 
police corruption, the book's main utility lies in its pages 
of data tables, which, while not put to any immediate 
good use, may have some value for future scholars who 
are more inclined toward practice than statistical 
gymnastics. 
Unfortunately, Chief DeLieto missed all of this, 
choosing instead to descnoe the book as refreshingly 
readable, being neither "abstract or excessivelv legaJ.is... 
tic." Any reader of the book would immediately wonder 
how the endless pages of sociological jargon had 
eluded the chief, how sentences such as "A bureau-
cracy requires the standardization of rules by a central 
authority in the expectation that universalism will pre-
vail in the application of these rules," could have es-
caped his comment. The ansWer, as it turns out, resides 
in the fact that he had never read the book, and only 
recently had had the text of the review delivered to him 
by a staff aid. 
However, like the chief himself, and probably with 
every justification, the public had paid no attention to 
the book. As a result, the question and answer session 
followins the revic:w did not pursue the few issues 
raised in The Police and the Public, but featured citizen 
complaints about the scarcity of speed traps and the 
demise of the foot patrolman. These questions were 
ones with which the chief could deal handily enough and 
so he ftnished off the lunch hour, confidently Aherning 
in the name of community visJoility. Solemnly, the 
chief assured a female inquisitor, "The police officer 
is as near to you, madam, as your telephone." Enthus-
iastically, he bestowed the ultimate .compliment on a 
black member of the audience, "You are a very, very 
perceptive young man. This is an idea I have been trying 
to stress for years and years." He explained one of his 
favorite theories and qualified it with all due humility, 
"My appraisal at best involves intuition and empirical 
judgment." 
Shortly after 1 p.m., the question period ended. If 
anything, the review would have delighted Albert 
Reiss, both for being favorable to his book and for being 
such a civil encounter between the police and the public. 
However, upon leaving the basement of the United 
Church on the Green, one could not help but wonder 
where, between the ego and the image, books had in 
fact been sandwiched in. e


**Rita Hayworth can make time without history**
**Author: Lawrence L Eilenberg**
**Page number(s): 6**

By Lawreoce L Eilenberg 
Rita Hayworth can make time without history. 
Cin,ma verit,, documentaries, 
fragments of a certain moment: History. 
The raw material is time: wars, floods, 
rock festivals; the camera consecrates 
these ephemeral phenomena, invests 
them with an unnamed significance and 
thus preserves them. History, however, 
is intention, the dramatization of time, 
a shaping of phenomena to show causes 
and effects. History is not tirqe: time is 
meaningless, history is meaning. 
But where is there no history, only 
time? Lewis and Clark found time, 
pure flux, when they found the North 
American plains Indians. Children live 
in time. So do those peoples who are 
obliged to be the extras in someone 
else's history, the so<alled colonial 
nations. For these people, history 
always seems to be occurring some-
where else; the great dramas of world 
events are always somebody else's 
dramas in which they are always the 
audience; they are always "behind 
the times." 
To live in such a culture is to live in a 
social structure which perpetuates itself 
through repetition. The flow of time 
must be dissimulated, repressed, or the 
utter madness of the situation pokes


**We don't need a seven-cent nickel just yet**

We don't need a seven-cent nickel just yet 
At the heart of the Marx Brothers' 
f'J.lm comedy was stage comedy, and at 
the heart of their stage comedy was 
vaudeville. Irving Thalberg, boy genius 
of MGM, intuitively sensed this when he 
began producing the Marx Brothers at 
Metro. The five pictures they had done 
for Paramount had become progressively 
thinner and thinner, and Thalberg knew 
that if the totally anarchic comedy of 
the Marx Brothers were not to wear out 
completely, their comic energy would 
need to be framed in a more or less 
cogent story line. For the explosion to 
have effect, there was need of an object 
susceptible to sabotage. 
The obvious source for this sort of 
screenplay was not in Hollywood but in 
New York.. Thalberg reached across the 
continent to the Algonquin and 
emerged with GeorgeS. Kaufman and 
Morrie Ryskind, authors of the Marx 
Brothers' early Broadway and flf1t film 
success, The Cocoanuts. With the aid of 
Al Boasberg. a gag specialist, these New 
York wits sat down in the hot California 
sun and sweated out the tcreenplay for 
A Night at the Opera. The script was 
good, and Thalberg enthusiastically met 
with Groucho to discuss the shooting. 
Groucho was pleased, but not confident. 
Cocoanuts and Animal Crackers had 
been hits, he maintained, because they 
had weathered years of live audiences 
before they ever made it to the screen. 
Who knew whether A Night at the 
Opera would work? 
Thalberg's solution to the problem 
was obvious, yet inspired. He suggested 
that the Marx Brothers put together 
fJVe of the big scenes from the screen-
play into a vaudeville show and go out 
on the road to test the material. The 
show opened in Seattle and flopped. 
During six weeks of touring, however, 
the scenes were revised, distilled, and 
injected with new material. Ryskind 
and Boasberg att:mded each perfor-
mance, noting .vhat had worked and 
what had not, and then rewrote to 
-accommodate the audiences' responses. 
By the time the tour closed at the 
Golden Gate Theater in San Francisco, 
it was a hit. Thalberg knew that they 
had a movie on their hands. 
Lonnie Carter's The Big House, 
currently at The Yale Repertory 
Theater, has something to do with 
the Marx Brothers and something 
to do with the movies. In the program 
for the production, Michael Feingold, 
literary manager for the company, 
states that, "Lonnie Carter's prison 
farce is an attempt to recall for 
contemporary audiences the tone 
and spirit, though not the factual 
details, of the Marx Brothers comedies, 
and the flowering of American comedy 
in the 1920s and '30s generally, filtered 
through his own distinctive use of 
verbal play ... The poster for The Big 
HOUS#! is a photographic collage of the 
Marx Brothers, Cbadie Chaplin, Buster 
Keaton, and Laurel and Hardy. 
The distinction between "tone and 
spirit" and "factual details .. of the 
Marx Brothers' comedies remains 
unclear to me. Surely we do not expect 
to hear the same lines as we have heard 
in the Marx Brothers' movies; after all, 
this is a new play. Nor do we expect to 
see Groucho. Chico, and Harpo, in the 



**Can Toto?**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Can Toto? 
throu!ll and the reality of chaos assumes 
its ri!lltful place. This tum of events 
does not happen, because certain truths 
are never tolerated publicly, neither by 
individuals nor by cultures. Archetypes 
save such a society from collective mad· 
ness, archetypes derived from institu· 
tions with historical pretentions: govern· 
ments, churches and families. Colonial 
)!individuals may not know who they are, 
but they certainly know what they are. 
But no system is free of surds, 
erratics. These are real individuals who 
by chance are granted immunity from 
the destiny of those around them. The 
immunity is also a burden: self· 
consciousness, the awareness of differ· 
ences between oneself and those around 
him, the awareness of the unreality of 
everyday life. Yet this self-aware individual 
must derive a sense of reality from some· 
where, and if this sense cannot be found 
in local circumstances, then it must be 
found elsewhere, a physical or aesthetic 
elsewhere. 

This is the subject of Betrayed by 
Rita Hayworth : the appearance of a 
self-aware individual in rural Argentina, 
a character born In an ahlstorical setting, 
in a context of social archetypes, a 
character who derives his sense of 
reality from films. Manuel Puig, the 
author, is '!itally concerned with 
history, with the phenomenon of time, 
bt.it he does not deal with this material 
in dialetical terms. He is not interested 
in recreating history, as for instance a 
novelist would be, by creating charac· 
ters whose lives reproduce the dialec-
tical factors of the era in which he sets 
the book. Rather, he reproduces the 
results of a situation (not really a 
historical situation, but an archetypal 
one) : its people. The characters here 
are not charged with historical signifi· 
cance, but with psychological and 
archetypal energy. That is, people are 
not created as representatives of a class, 
and the work does not derive its 
structure from the interplay of these 
classes. We get the feeling that there is 
no community here (because there is 
no history), that this is in fact the 
work's overriding moral comment. 

But once that primary associat ion is 
understood, there seems to be no imper-
ative in Puig's aesthetic to enlarge upon 
it. Social conflict as such is therefore 
virtually absent from Betrayed by Rita 
Hayworth, displaced by internal, 
psychological realities, wnich sometimes 
fmd expression in social reality. It is this 
fragmentary social structure which gives 
the book its Shape: it is composed of 
isolated, unrelated chapters in which the 
characters think, converse, write, or are 
described. Puig arranges the chapters in 
chronological order, ironically repro-
ducing the flow of time as it occurs in 
the world the text imitates, with one 
exception. 

When we reach the last chapter of 
the book, we suddenly find that we are 
again at the beginning. Chapter XVI, 
" Berto's letter, 1933," is in the wrong 
place. It should appear as an interpola· 
tion in Chapter II, " At Berto's place, 
Vallejos, 1933." This dislocated chap-
ter, a signal to the reader that the 
book's reality is somehow outside of 
chronological time, may be understood 
as an episode not essential to the plot; 
part, perhaps, of the plot's prehistory, 
or as one of the events which do in fact 
push the action to its conclusion. And 
yet, if we examine the information 
contained in the chapter, we see that 
althou!ll it does give us information 
about the characters, it has nothing to 
do (except as a distant, indirect cause) 
with any dramatic action. The meaning 
of Betrayed by Rita Hayworth does not 
depend on our biographical knowledge 
of its characters; it is not therefore a 
novel and not bound to the cause and 
effect relationships implicit in any plot. 

Novels are permanently wedded to 
plot and history. When an author 
abandons these, his art becomes some-
thing else: romance, satire, anatomy. 
Puig is clearly writing about a world 
which cannot be novelistically repro-
duced. If we accept the idea that it is 
the fate of any writer to express his age, 
that it is moreover the onerous task of 
the novelist to bear the weight of his-
tory, then we may certainly accept the 
concept of an author writing some-
thing other than a novel when he has no 
history to reproduce. Puig, despite 
the contemporaneity of his setting, is 
chronicling a myth. The myth is modest: 
not the birth of Orpheus, not Prome-
theus giving fire to men, but the ap-
pearance of self-awareness. This myth 
may seem I ike just another archetypal 
role repeating itself, and yet it would 
seem that it is this self-conscious in-
dividual who lends dignity to those who 
lack his awareness. 

The aesthetic center of gravity of 
Betrayed by Rita Hayworth is a boy, 
Toto, who dominates only three of the 
book's sixteen chapters. That he is not 
the rrotagonist of the work is a tunc· 
tion of the sort of book it is. It has no 
real plot, and it attempts to recreate no 
historical period; rather it traces the 
early manifestations of self-awareness. 
But what we learn about Toto in these 
three chapters clearly points out his sig-
nificance: he is intelligen~, he has under-
standing and intuition, and he is sex-
ually ambiguous. This last detail is im-
portant in that it isolates the boy, sep· 
arating him from the blind copying of 
patterns revealed to him by his father, 
his cousin, and his masculine friends. 

Toto's reaction to all situations, 
particularly unpleasant ones (being 
rebuffed by a girl, feeling cheated when 
his father does not bring him to a 
cafe after a movie, being attracted to 
the uncle of the girl who treated him 
badly), is to create a metaphorical 
rationalization for the event. The stage 
for this primitive form of artistic cre-
ation is the movies. They are reality; 
therefore particularly strong social 
situations are analogous to them. For 
example, in Chapter V, "Toto, 1942", 
we see a systematic restatement of Toto's 
relationship with his father - his most 
serious competitor for his mother's 
love. To explain, in veiled terms, what 
he is experiencing, Toto allegorizes 
the film Blood and Sand (starring Rita 
Hayworth and Tyrone Power). 

For Toto, Blood and Sand is a lesson 
about evil triumphing over good, about 
the death of innocence. He says about 
Rita Hayworth, "And sometimes she 
looks wicked, she's a pretty actress but 
she's always betraying somebody." 
later he adds: "But In Blood and Sand
she betrays the good boy." The "good 
boy" is Tyrone Power, but he is also 
Toto. In Chapter II I, he describes him· 
self in that way when he takes part in 
a dream version of a Shirley Temple 
film. Here he is Rita Hayworth's vic· 
tim, but his simple appropriation of 
Tyrone Power's part implies that she 
too has been recast. As the chapter 
goes on, we see that Rita Hayworth has 
become Toto's father, who had "be· 
trayed" him by inviting some· friends 
to the house instead of going to a cafe 
with Toto and his mother. 

Toto is perpetually betrayed by his 
father, because he cannot be his father. 
His father is all of the oppressors in all 
of the films Toto sees. In The Great 
Ziegfeld, Toto takes on the role of a 
bellboy whose stepfather mistreats him. 
Here he metaphorically displaces his 
father by creating an alternate family, 
with a mother he helps and a father 
he loves. His own father is his cruel 
stepfather. In The Great Waltz, the 
subject of one of Toto's school com-
positions, he becomes an artist (Johann 
Strauss), a victim who when he loses 
his mistress laments that "he never 
succeeded in making her fall madly 
in love with him ... " Toto wants to be 
in dreams what he cannot be in life: 
loved without reservation, loved so 
madly that he can victimize his lover. 
He fails in his dream, just as he fails 
in life. 

Toto can never be free of his rela· 
tionship with his father, his Oedipal 
heritage. But his awareness of his lack, 
his unconscious need to fill that space 
through metaphorical activity will ul-
timately be one more step in his 
separation from his social setting. The 
success of this activity depends on fac-
tors which have nothing to do with his 
family. They occur in the reality of 
films, films metamorphosed in dreams 
and mixed with catechism lessons (par-
ticularly the Last Judgment, which stim-
ulates in Toto a grand fantasy in which 
he becomes a displaced version of his 
father by crawling inside the body of a 
man he wishes his father would copy in 
dress and grooming). 

The other characters in Betrayed by 
Rita Hayworth lack Toto's individuality; 
they are the normal inhabitants of Cor-
onel Vallejos, the small town where 
the work is set. They are two-dimen· 
sional figures, either possible versions 
of Toto (an adolescent who seeks 
sexual release, whose undifferentiated 
sexuality is instinctive, without aes· 
thetic transcendence; an old-maid piano 
teacher whose talent· has dried up in 
pedagogy), or figures who typify a 
class mentality (the character Esther, a 
fanaticql peronista whose displaced 
Oedipal energy is funnelled into pol-
itics). But the characters who stand 
as counterparts or alternatives to Toto 
do not have his self-consciousness, his 
intense dream life, in itself a sort of artis-
tic activity, while the others conform 
to certain archetypal structures, the 
kind at work in Puig's second, un~ 
translated book, Boquitas pintadas. 

Boquitas (Little Painted Mouths) 
is a second trip to Coronel Vallejos, 
but this time Puig studi~s the entire 
situation as if it were a serial romance 
novel or a soap opera. Here his con-
cept of history seems more apparent. 
There is no history in this world, there 
is not even a character like Toto who 
might conceivably represent a kind of 
aesthetic consolation to a people de· 
prived of historical reality. In Boquitas 
we find only archetypes, characters 
who reenact social roles without de· · 
viating from them. Like the figures 
in soap operas, they are not three-di· 
mensional because they have no real 
identity. They merely embody a cer-
tain cluster of emotions. Puig attempts 
to give historical significance to these 
cardboard figures by arranging them in 
family groups, the family representing 
~the organization of time in generations. 
But this dissimulation (which Puig car· 
ries over from soap operas) is quite· 
transparent because there is no real 
progress in the work. Just as in Be-
trayed by Rita Hawworth, chrono· 
logical sequence is an irony, a joke 
which underlines the eternal present 
operative in a society which exists in 
perpetual flux, where there is no 
dialectical tension between social 
elements, just the incessant reiteration of 
the same interplay of passions. 

Boquitas is the more hermetic of 
the two texts, and the least acces-
sible to non-Argentine readers. Be-
trayed by Rita Hayworth, with its 
succession of "close-ups" reminis-
cent of Under Milkwood or Eyeless 
in Gaza at least bears some resem-
blance to familiar literary structures. 
Boquitas, on the other hand, is onl\4 
comparable in structure to film: it 
utilizes flashbacks, documentary-
style objectivity, "pan" shots (the 
narrator describes a character's bed-
room, then "moves" out through a 
window to depict an action going on 
in a neighboring lot, and a narrative 
technique which utterly reifies the 
characters. It is the narrator's total 
detachment whi<;h supports his 
presentation of characters doomed 
to a kind of human underdevelop-
ment. This text and Betrayed by Rita 
Hayworth together form a kind of 
whole, a reduction of the false face 
of colonial history to its true 
components: an endless succession 
of moments without meaning. They 
form an exhaustive vision, one which 
Puig will clearly have to abandon for 
some time. His latest, still unfinished 
text is in fact about life in Buenos 
Aires, not unnaturally a mystery 
novel, the quintessential romance 
structure. 

Puig himself is something of an 
anomaly in Argentina and, in fact, in 
all ot Latin American literature. He 
seems to have disconnected himself 
quite consciously from all extant liter-
ary patterns. He does not imitate 
Borges, Cortazar or Garcia Marquez. 
And yet he is the result of the 
upsurge in the "new" Latin Amer-
ican literature, born some say in 1941, 
with Borges' volume The Garden of 
Forking Paths. This literature has 
always been conscious of its meta-
physica·l content, always divorced 
from direct subservience to any 
ideology, always extremely self-
conscious about style and form. Puig 
stands alone in this context because 
of his having broken with a specifi-
cally literary mode of literary produc-
tion. He does not use literature to 
make literature as Borges does; he is 
not trying to harmonize himself with 
his own vision of literary tradition as 
is Cortazar; and he has not set out to 
write the mock-epic of Spanish 
America, as Garcia Marquez has. He 
is unique in this hemisphere. 

Luckily, he has been well trans-
lated - unlike many of his latin 
American contemporaries. Suzanne 
Jill Levine, a New Haven resident, 
working closely with Puig (perhaps 
the best way to translate one reality 
into another) has •produced a 
genuinely interesting re-creation, 
which can stand on its own merit as 
a work of art. • 
Manuel Puig, Betrayed by Rita 
Hayworth (original title: La traicicSn 
de Rita Hayworth), translated by 
Suzanne Jill Levine (Dutton, 1971). 
Alfred J. MacAdam, an assistant 
professor in the Spanish department, 
teaches a course in the. Latin Amer-
ican novel.


**Will Groucho Marx join the revolution?**
**Author: Lawrence Ellenberg**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

When the movie ends, does it end? 
flesh, running around the stage. Other 
than these facts, the relevant details of 
the Marx Brothers are precisely part of 
their tone and spirit. We must admit from 
from the start that we cannot recreate 
their idiosyncratic talents. For that 
matter, even if we were able to do so 
(as was attempted in Minnie's Boys in 
New York), the essential point in a 
serious re-creation would still revolve 
around tone and spirit. 

The Rep, under Robert Brustein's 
direction, has, to a certain extent, 
captured the Marx Brothers' spirit 
quite well. Dick Sbawn"s performance 
as Wolfgang Amadeus Gutbucket, that 
is, as the Groucho character, is simply 
brilliant. Lonnie Carter bas been quite 
clever in his juxtaposition of two perme-
ating American myths, that of the .. big 
house, .. or as I Jiriaht haw preferred 
"hi& home,•• the American pn.on which 
holds us aD, and Hollywood, our sbared 
and collectiwly c:onsc:ious fantasy 
worJcl. 

There is, however, a stumblina bloct 
here, and that is the Marx Brothen 
themselves. Lonnie Carter's notion is 
a good one. The political message is 
clear. There is a dissonance between our 
dreams and our reality, between "Gold-
diggers" and the "big house." Both 
have trapped us, and both must be 
exploded. Walls and tinsel must come 
down. Who is more likely to do the job, 
Carter must have said to himself, than 
those mythic anarchists, those brothers 
Marx (who may be unrelated to Karl, 
but whose instincts are just as revolu-
tionary). 

The Marx Brothers, however, as 
myth, cannot bear the weight of 
politics. The problem with 1"he BW 
Hmue is that it is a Marx Brothen 
scenario with serious intentions. whidl 
is to say that it is self-contradictory. 
The play uses cinema as a continuous 
metaphor, yet the Marx Brothers were 
not cinematic. '11u! BW Howe forces 
political substance upon an anarchy 
which remained, fcx the Marx Brotben, 
always stylistic. 

The Marx Brothers mow4 from 
ftUdeYille to Jeaitimate theater ....... 
they had alienated B.F. Albee, who 
controlled the best vaudeville houses. 
In search of a stage, they fell into 
Broadway. The move into movies was 
just as mechanical. Sound arrived at the 
right time, and movies meant more 
money, less work, and a bigger audience. 
It was as logical a step as Groucho's 
later move into television, and was made 
with as little artistic pretnse. Yet the 
'Marx Brothers' popularity on Broadway 
and in the cinema was in spite of these 
forms. They always remained the bead-
line vaudeville act, and though they 
were framed into a plot, be it play or 
scenario, they constantly fought against 
it. Thalberg was right to try out their 
movies on the vaudeville stage. 

The Rep bas m.isUkenly focused on 
the form of the film med.ium, whidl is 
the one thin& about it whi<:h the Marx 
Brothers resisted. Furthermore, The BW 
HOtUe delineates good guys and bad 
JUYS; for the Marx Brothers no sudl 
value judameot could be made. Values 
and their inevitable derivative, politics. 
would haw subverted the Marx ·Brothers' total irreverence. There is 
something not so laughably reverent 
about The Big House. 

The Big House is most interesting, 
perhaps, as an illustration of something 
which is happening in the theater today. 
The Marx Brothers, as we know, took 
essentially stage vehicles and techniques 
and brought them into the movies. In 
this, they were typical. The American 
journey has traditionally been from 
east to west. and as with settlement, so 
with theatrical/cinematic properties. 
There is a long heritage of Broadway 
shows being adapted by the Hollywood 
dream factory. Everyone's work. from 
Rodgers and Hammerstein to Eugene 
O'Neill, has made this journey west. 
Now, just as America has begun to 
look east (to VietNam) and Captain 
America has taken his trip from the 
Pacific to the Atlantic (Easy Rider), so 
the traditions of adaptation and 
influence have been reversed in the 
theatrical/cinematic world. Broadway 
now feeds on the movies. In the last few 
years we have seen a TONY award 
winning musical, Applause, adapted 
from Hollywood's All About Eve, as 
well as a number of misguided shows 
based on Elmer Gantry, Georgy Girl, and 
and even La Strada. More insidious, 
however, in its own way, has been the 
movies' effect on more serious play-
wrights' imaginations. 

Movies have made their way into the 
theater in two particularly subversive 
channels. The fust is technical, at least 
in origin. We see a frustration on the 
part of young playwrights at not having 
access on the stage to jump-cuts, close-
ups, and sound editing. The result has 
been, at its best, theatrical fragmenta-
tion, and at its worst, recapitulation of 
movie devices on the stage. Maria Irene 
Fornes, for example, has successfully 
used the movie cut as a stage technique. 
Her plays refuse to be localized; scenes 
flow from one into the next. Terence 
McNally, even in so flawed a work as 
Where Has Tommy Flowers Gone?, has 
used flashbacks and fragmentation in a 
valid theatrical manner. However, when 
in a work like The Big House we see 
strobe-flickers used for a gratuitous 
silent-screen effect, and when we see 
mugging at the edge of the apron for 
invalid close-ups, we wonder what the 
movies are doing for or to the stage. 

The second influence, a more serious 
one, is in the realm of matter, not 
method, and it is related to myth. 
America's mythic resources have always 
been minor in comparison with its more 
ancient European cultural rivals. There 
is a vast difference between Daniel 
Webster and St. Joan, and we have 
suffered because our hero is the former. 
Now, however, our movies have 
provided us with a seemingly rich 
mythology: Charlie Chaplin, Marilyn 
Monroe, the Marx Brothers. Even Ruby 
Keeler has taken on mythic proportions, 
and thousands flock to No, No, Nanette 
to worship her. 

The problem with our Hollywood 
myths is not that they are neither 
valid nor rich. but that they are not 
ready to be used. They are not fully 
digested; they remain uncomfortably 
close in time and therefore ambiguous. 
It is easy for a playwright to dress a 
character in derby, cane, and floppy 
shoes- he knows the audience's 
response will be to click Chaplin. 
Unfortunately, it is too easy and too 
frequently done. The click is not easy 
to gauge. Chaplin is a contemporary; 
his associations are not generalized yet. 
Too many people know him, not 
through revivals, but through his origi-
nal releases. He is still too much of a 
celebrity to be a myth, too much, 
indeed, of a person. We must know our 
myths only at great distance, and we 
are not yet distanced enough from any 
of our Hollywood heros. 

There is a speech by Groucho in 
Animal Crackers which gets right to the 
heart of the matter ... Do you know 
what this country needs today?" he 
asks. "A seven-<:ent nickeL Yessiree, 
we've been using the f"'tve-cent nickel in 
this country since 1492, and that's 
pretty near a hundred years' daylight 
saving. Now why not give the seven-«nt 
nickel a chance? If it works out, next 
year we could have an eigbt-<:ent nickeL 
Think what that would mean. You could
could go to the newsstand, buy a three-
cent newspaper and get the same nickel 
back again. One nickel carefully used 
would last a family a lifetime!" 

Our movie figures are still only five-
cent nickels, or seven-cent ones at their 
inflated best. The theater, with its 
ancient history, has for a long time 
been trading in dollar nickels. Bringing 
the movies into theater at this time 
seems to me to be an uncomfortable 
deflation.• 
This is L(IWIrence Ellenberg's second 
-appearance in The New Journal. 


**Is Toto Tyrone Power?**
**Page number(s): 8**

Is Groucbo ·
Will Rita Hayworth take Toto to lunch? 




**Title: Please Give Me Back**
**Author: By a Student of the University of Dalat**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
People have said a lot 
About the countryside 
In difficult and lofty phrases· 
With ‘feelings’ marked night 
Cryptic or bitter 
As the words of a lover betrayed. 
But I would like now to say some simple things, 
Simple as a field of rice or sweet potatoes, 
Or a silent early morning. 
Please let me breathe again 
The air of yesterday. 
Let children play in the sun 
With kites over bamboo bridges. 
Just a narrow little space will be enough, 
Four rows of bamboo trees surrounding; 
And leave a little space for an entrance, 
. A place for a girl and boy to tell the story of the moon, 
For old women with babies to gather and chatter. 
Please give me back these things I've mentioned: 
A story so simple 
As a bird's unbroken song, 
As a mother, 
As a baby, 
As the life of long ago the poets used to tell...


**Title: A Dream Which has Withered**
**Author: Hoentl Minh Nt.ng**

The day I grew up, 
Near my father. near my mother. 
Near my sister, near my brother. 
I only knew how to plant mulberry trees, 
And cultivate rice; 
And then one day war by chance came 
And trampled on my native village. 
People in the name of the father land, 
People in the name of man, 
People in the name of freedom, 
~eople in the name of happiness, 
Spy on each other. destroy each other. 
My father went up into the mountains, 
My mother waits and waits, 
My brother resists the war • 
My uncle is a nationalist; 
People teach me how to hate, 
People teach me how to kill, to cut off heads, 
All in the name ·of love, 
Of philanthropy. of compassion; 
Fathers, mothers, wives, children, whole villages 
Turn into strangers 
And become enemies. 
People teach me to bear grudges, to resent, 
But I only want to be a husband, 
A father. with a wife, with a young son 
Who knows how to say the two words: Viet Nam, 
From Cao Bang to the seas of Thailand. 
But my dream is a small trifle, 
Dim and uncertain, as the days pass.


**Title: The Present**
**Author: By a High school student from Da Nang**
**Page number(s): 11**

I sit down to write you a poem 
As the sounds of AK47 rifle fire pour into my brain, 
As the sounds of R 15 machine guns pin up my heart; 
But my hand doesn't shake. 
Only the words " I love" get slanted 
Because of mortars and cannons, artillery and tanks. 
Outside, they are fighting, for glory in battle: 
On this side one person slumps down, dead. 
On the other side one person still lives. 
There another groans and cries out. 
Here one person laughs loudly in victory. 
And it all starts over. 
Oh my love! 
More than twenty years 
And today it still goes on. 
I search my brain 
Looking for a small quiet place 
To remember for a moment my native village. 
But my love, 
That part of my brain 
Has been filled with smoke of bullets and bombs 
For too long. 
The fields, 
The bamboo hedges, 
Flowing rivers, 
The highlands with their little trees, 
The cities big and imposing, 
All battle grounds spread with blood. 
Each hand's breadth of land 
Has its corpse. 
Yet what glory have they won? 
They are dead, killed 
By a Communist's AK rifle 
Or by a nationalist's gun; 
By an ally's bullet 
Or by the shrapnel of a bomb. 
They slump and fall 
Without having known the enemy, 
Mesmerized by the big words: 
Peace, Freedom, Unification. 
This poem comes to you 
Whether my village lives or dies; 
The fire bums high. 
I stop here. 
Ple818, love, don't ask why. 
Some day when there's peace 
I will write you a different poem.


**Title: Black Flower**
**Author: null**

You sit in a car 
With a foreigner 
And wave your hand. 
Is it to say good-bye to me, 
Or farewell to days that have passed? 
11/The New Journal/November 28, 1971 
Your face reminds me of someone I have known; 
I search my mind, 
I try to remember who it might be 
Who has waved to me 
In bitterness or sympathy. 
My god! It is you 
Whom I love, whom I have spent happy days with; 
Innocent and small, 
With soft cheeks and full lips, 
With virgin skin unblemished, 
With a scent fine as the frailest flower; 
The one I worshipped and respected. 
And now all that is finished. 
I remember when you were a student not long ago, 
Holding your palm-leaf hat against the sun 
To shade your face, 
Pouting when the teacher gave you a low mark. 
Now you exchange your flesh for money, 
Dress up in powder and perfume. 
You are called Mrs. or Miss-
Does it matter? 
You are a bitter glass of whiskey 
Which people of a different color, different race 
Buy to satisfy themselves. 
And I, still just a man 
Who, morning and night, 
Drags his feet to the cafe we knew then 
Without money enough for two cups of coffee. 
I look at the people. 
I look at you there 
I look at everybody. 
And I bow my head to wipe tears from my eyes. 
I want to take the earth in my hands 
And squeeze it so tightly 
The meridians will be squashed out of shape 
And we, following our separate lines, 
Will never again meet under the great vault of heaven, 
Because a dream is always beautiful, 
Isn't it? 
Oh, but the sad truth is 
The day I really say good-bye to you; 
I will instruct the sun not to rise 
So I can hold you in my arms forever; 
I will not tremble with fear, 
No one will see me blush, 
And my shyness will be hidden.


**Title: Invasion**
**Author: Huy Vu**
**Page number(s): 12**

As a child 
I was curious 
And asked my mother over and over 
"Why are the French called invaders?" 
With tears in her eyes she answered, 
" Have you not seen their tread upon our villages 
And the cannons, the airplanes?" 
And angered she would say 
"They are not Vietnamese." 
I nodded but didn't understand 
For others said the French 
Had come to help. 
" Why have Mr. Hai and Mr. Ba grown rich 
With the French? 
Why do you call them invaders, my mother?" 
And sadly she answered 
"Wait, grow up, you'll understand." 
Oh, why did you cry Mother? Why, Mother?' 
She is dead now. 
And the French have all gone. 
Still I see my mother crying, 
Tears rolling down the curve of her face, 
Today. Is it today? or years ago? 
For I am grown 
And my nephews ask the same old question. 
"What is an invasion?" 
I want to cry, but only say 
" You'll know when you grow up." 
But they understand much younger now. 
Not like when I was a boy. 
And they ask their uncle 
Harder questions. 
• 
"Where can we find our country?" 
We know now, we all know now 
What an invasion is, 
But where can we find our country?


**Title: Dead Bodies**

The following poem appeared in Lap 
Truong (Standpoint) in 1964. This 
newspaper was closed because of 
the anti-war nature of this poem. 
Dead bodies are all over the land, 
The faces unidentifiable, 
Without clothing, 
Lying on the same land 
Of poverty and hardship. 
An old mother with her stick, 
Tearful eyes, questioned 
The Nationalist, 
The Communist, 
Who live in the same village, 
Who belong to the same mother, 
Who have the same black hair and red blood, 
The same flat nose and yellow skin. 
In her burnt garden, 
This selection, prepared by the Com-
mittee of Concerned Asian Scholan 
for The New Journal comes from 
a forthcoming volume of Vietnamese 
poems, We Promise One Another, 
edited by Don Luce, John Schafer 
and Jacqueline Shagnon.


**Title: Letter To My Father**
**Author: Van Doan Hoc Sin**

During the years of hunger and degradation 
Tears wet my father's face. 
"What can we do, child? 
Stop crying, don't break our hearts." 
In the burning sun 
. My father sold his labor 
To get our bowl of rice; 
In the icy mornings 
My mother worked as a servant. 
Clothing and food were heavy chains, 
My children! 
We have struggled in life 
To overcome injustice and fraud, 
To raise you. 
You shall bear the world on your shoulders 
Love, justice, and truth 
Look ahead and make our dreams come true 
The dreams your father, your mother, and your suffering people 
Dreamt in pearling sweat. 
The year I was born 
My brothers in their twenties 
Were singing in excitement, 
Taking steps to break the bonds of degradation. 
Today, my father, your dream has come true. 
I, your courageous son 
Walk under the flag. 
Since my days of birth 
I have felt pains and sores 
Made by the iron of foreign boots. 
I have chosen justice 
As my source of life. 
I have learnt hatred when fire was destroying my country. 
The blade of my sword shines under the moon. 
My heart hangs high on the mountains. 
In excitement I follow the call toward the flag. 
From: Ta Da Lon len Ben Nay ctt.u A


**Title: Saigon**

The children dug for burnt potatoes like hungry dogs. 
The Mother's eyes cannot see the future. 
The vultures came over the dead bodies. 
Animals and men are the same.



**Title: Women of the South**
**Author: Luu Trong Lu**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
•• 
Women of the South 
Tran thi Ly* 
Long hair, hair of a young mother, 
Washed in the water of Thu Bon, 
Adorning your body, wounded in a hundred places. 
In life and death, always loyal. 
Muoi Dong Thap 
Just turned twenty, 
Leader of three hundred struggles. 
One leg left, you stand erect, 
A beautiful flag wrapping your body. 
Nguyen thi Ut 
A guerrilla of the Delta 
Carrying your only child on your hip, 
Combing the river bank, 
... "' ,, 
.,.. 
Striking the enemy as naturally as you go to market. 
Ta thi Kieu 
With a beautiful name from ancient times, 
You're a faithful niece of Uncle Ho. 
Striking the enemy, you're strong as a tiger. 
Speaking of it, you smile like a flower. 
Nguyen thi Dinh 
In the assault you command a hundred squads. 
Night returns, you sit mending fighters' clothes. 
Woman general of the South, descending from Trao and Nhi, •• 
You've shaken the brass and steel of the White House. 
By Luu Trong Lu 
1966 
Tran thi Ly is a woman's name as are the other 
headings of this poem. 
Trung Trac and Trung Nhi, the famous Trung sisters 
who led Vietnamese against the Chinese about 40 B.C.


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Not specified**

Don Luce returned to the United 
States after tvvelve years in VietNam, 
when the Saigon government re-
ftned to renew his visa because 
of his artic/1 on the Con Son prison 
tiger cages. 
John SchafH, an American, teaches 
at the Uniwrsity of Hue . 
.Ricqw/int!l Shagnon is now working 
with the Indo-China Mobile Education 
Project.e 
13/The New Journal/November 28, 1971 
continued from page 2 
he fmds that sometimes violence has 
to be the Jewish way. "Moses beheld 
an Egyptian smiting a Jew and did he 
form a committee? No, he smote the 
Egyptian." 
Rabbi Kahane is an internationalist 
who sees the United States as the only 
bulwark against tyranny. He genuinely 
fears the new isolationism. ''There is 
a community of interest between Jews 
all over the world and this country." 
He compares the American efforts at 
detente with the Soviet Union to 
Neville Chamberlain's actions at 
Munich. "He thought he'd earned 
peace by canceling out a few Czechs," 
Rabbi Kahane says. 
''This nation stands between free.. 
dom and the long knife of tyranny," 
he says. Many adults applaud lustily, 
but their applause is drowned in a 
torrent of hisses from the majority of 
the students. 
But Rabbi Kahane starts entertain-
ing again, and the hisses are forgotten. 
"Many Jews tell me they like my 
aims, but not my tactics. I was on a 
television talk show with Abbie Hoff-
man a while ago. After we had talked 
for a while Abbie toked at me and 
said, 'I love your tactics, but I don't 
like your aims.' How can you dislike 
a guy like Abbie?" he asks, adopting 
a trace of Yiddish dialect. "I went out 
and stole his book." 
Rabbi Kahane concludes with an 
appeal to all Jews to defend their 
own interests. ''To let yourself be 
stepped on is not the Jewish way." 
The students applaud the performance 
lustily. Many of the adults await the 
question and answer period. The ques-
tions are generally abstract discussions 
of the merits of violence, with the 
adults asking most of the tougher 
questions. The man who calls the rabbi 
a murderer does not specify to what 
he is referring. The rabbi does not 
dignify the charge with a response ex-
cept to say that discussion of such a 
charge is impossible. 
Mterwards, the students file out 
the front entrance back to the library 
or to their rooms. One student re-
marks, "Kahane, along with Hoffman 
and Jerry Rubin, is probably the last 
of the great Jewish comics." 
At the other end of the room, New 
Haven residents use another exit to 
get to the ttreet. One bulky man 
stands and scowls at the podium where 
the rabbi is talking with some stu-
dents. The man seems to be about to 
yell something, but, remembering his 
respectability, he merely turns angrily 
and walks away. contirwed on page 15


**Title: College Street on November 6**
**Author: Carolyn Seely**
**Page number(s): 14**

College Street on November 6 
looks like a pep rally for a charity 
ball. Clusters of women and teenage 
girls and an occasional couple crowd 
the sidewalk. Everyone is sober and 
proud, waiting for Rod McKuen to 
appear at the Shubert. 
You can recognize Rod McKuen 
from his poetry, "Acne scars/Tired 
eyes/Wrinkles on my forehead," or by 
the famous brittle blond hair, or the 
ubiquitous black sneakers. He re-
sembles nothing less than a poet who 
moonlights as a hairdresser. Even in 
the flesh he's a black and white snap-
shot in a color set. Rod McKuen's sex 
appeal is a tribute to America, to the 
democratic principle which says that 
any boy can, and to the will of the 
majority which insists that millions of 
housewives can't be wrong. 
Rod stands silently while his en-
tourage busily chooses between two 
dressing rooms. Rod never talks 
to anyone before his concerts. His 
people show none of his reticence. 
They turn the Shubert theater lobby 
into a Congress of Commerce and 
Art. "Take a bit of Rod McKuen home 
with you. Try him in your own living 
room." But for their poetic sensibilit-
ies, these lady hawkers might have 
gone far in Shea Stadium. "Get your 
limited British editions. Rod in song 
and story." 
Inside, the superficially young 
crowd soon reveals its in.nate middle 
age. Although there are only two men 
in the front row, there are consider-
ably more further back. All wear 
their hair liberally curled on the neck, 
or, if fortunate, lanky. but always a 
cut above the collar like Rod's. Most 
of the women would pass meeting 
house muster. They wear expressions 
of studied sensitivity. They have come 
for Art. 
The curtain flnally rises and the 
stage looks as shabby as it had from 
the wings, disproving all those cliches 
about the magic of the footlights. Thin 
volumes of poetry are neatly strewn 
on stools which are asymmetrically 
aligned. It has the lived-in look of 
home and folks. Rod walks on to 
polite enthusiasm, assumes his stance, 
and immediately begins to sing. He 
looks like a flgure study of Resolu-
tion: feet apart, head forward, arms at 
his sides except in the swell of a key 
emotion. Obviously, this is not his 
medium; he is a poet, a bard, a loner. 
But he is here for us, Art confront-
ing Culture in the name of Truth. 
Rod wears a white sweater which 
blends into his neck and dark slacks 
which blend into the musicians. Even 
the spotlight can't follow him, and 
the poor JUY is sober. Only the heavy 
treaded sneakers seem alive. Rod is 
both with us and apart, casual and 
ready to bolt. To this audience, un-
able to fit into Ken Kesey's movie 
and Captain America's speed bike, 
Rod is the myth, the drifter, the 
catcher of trains. 
He reads about flnding twenty 
dollars. He bought a fountain pen and 
a jackknife because he'd never owned 
one. "He was rich in those days," 
goes the poem. This poetry operates 
on several levels. The audience 
realizes that this experience is deeper 
than mere words. Many of them can't 
hear at all, but they are absorbing the 
thoughts, the vibrations. Discontent is 
politely stared into silence like cough-
ing at a final exam. At one point Rod 
describes his poetry as both a diary 
and the cure for a bad cold. He is 
only joking, of course. 
In format, the concert, like the 
stage, is designed to display Rod 
through his art. 


**Page number(s): 15**

. Modesty: Rod humbly acknowledges 
his debts especially to those artists 
who have recorded his songs: Mary 
Trjivers, Petula Clark, and Perry Como. 
Bluntness: To those critics who 
accuse him of sentimentality, Rod 
answers "tough," and he's not 
bluff'mg. "Get up and hit 'em in the 
uead with love." 
Xffection: Rod celebrates the father-
hood of his sheep dog, Mr. Kelly, 
with considerable skill in whistling. 
Ambition: Having studied various 
brand name detergents (Biz, Duz, Top 
Job, Cold Power, Joy), Rod has come 
up with the soap the housewife really 
wants: Climax. 
Creativity: He introduces the illus-
trated Rod McKuen calendar contain-
ing 365 holidays and a month of Sun-
days. Typical holidays celebrate the 
fourth birthday of Rosemary's 
baby or King Kong's ten-inch teeth . . 
Art is not astronomy. 
Concern: Rod leads a audience par-
ticipation chorus of "Soldiers who 
want to be heroes/Number practically 
zero/But there are millions who want 
to be civilians." 
Sincerity: "Remember it doesn't mat-
ter who you love or how you love, 
*t that you love." 
Rod delivers this material earnestly 
and carefully. What emerges, however,. 
is a true Brechtian spectacular. Every 
stage direction is clearly delineated. 
From his every gesture we know that 
Rod has been told to move or stand 
"just so." But why? Why would 
"America's fastest selling poet" stoop 
to parody at the hands of promoters? 
Is this worth all his evident discom-
fort? But most of all who is he try-
ing to be? Lenny Bruce? Charles 
Schultz? George Fenneman? Maybe 
next fall when he brings us his "one-
man show" ... 
Rod doesn't have time for auto-
graphs tonight, but no one's being 
sent away until Rod's aide f'mds the 
girls he's looking for. He is about 25, 
tall, lean, with Rod McKuen blond 
hair that is dry but not yet brittle, 
and he is asking everyone's name. I 
watch the drama of hope and rejecr 
tion until I am ushered into a small 
cubicle, the Shubert's luxury dressing 
room, and am confronted with Rod 
McKuen's soulful eyes. 
Rod rarely grants interviews now-
adays. Maybe two or three a year, 
although he reads about 60. He has 
never read or seen "Love Story," 
Buy your beloved a 
Wt 
mfrl 
a ···erao. o ·: 
.·. Bed 
.. · . . 
although he "would like to." Perhaps 
that's just as well, however, as there 
is a basic conflict. Rod thinks "Love 
means continually having to say you're 
sorry." In fact, he doesn't under-
stand why they've been linked together 
so often. 
Faced with inf'mite possibility I opt 
for the mundane. "Didn't you say 
that you'd 'paved the way for Erich 
Segal?'" (Esquire, January 1971) 
"I'm quoted as saying that? No. 
Yes? I couldn't have said that." Rod 
does feel that there's a need for roman-
ticism, however. "The times are 
so brittle." 
Rod doesn't have time for novels. 
He reads nine newspapers and at 
least 30 journals, because he's "con-
cerned with what's happening now." He 
writes to "clarify his own life" 
and in hopes that this may "clarify the 
lives of others. Today there is a need 
for people to be honest with each 
other. Children especially need to be 
taught this." Is he pleased that many 
high schools are teaching his poetry 
along with Love Story? "Well, I 
wouldn't presume to teach." 
We are interrupted by the aide 
triumphantly leading in sqmebody's 
"cousins." He starts to break camp. 
Tyco 
15/The New Journal/November 28, 1971 
"What about your fllm?" I shout 
at Rod. 
The script is f'mished and cast. It 
is necessarily somewhat autobio-
graphical, as it is based on the early 
poetry. He can't relate it to Love 
Story because he's "never seen it." 
Rod is played by a 23-24 year old 
unknown whose identity is a 
mystery. 
"How about the woman?" 
"Jean Simmons." 
"Jean Simmons! But doesn't she 
represent a certain style, say the 
Romantic Epic?" 
Rod doesn't want to give any more 
away. And. after all maybe he just 
likes her name. • 


**Title: Oh, My! Eli Screws up Gorgeously**
**Author: The Daily News Copydesk**

Oh, My! Eli Screws up 
Georgeously 
Dear Adler, 
Well at least you were consistent, 
and consistency is the whole thing, 
huh? But the guy's name is Chile 
Allam, not Chilly Allan. And, al-
though you may not know how he 
got it, we all do. 
Let's get on the goddam ball. 
The Daily News Copydesk


**Title: Unnamed Advertisement**
**Author: Alfred·A·Knopf, The Yale Co-op**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
111111111111111111111111.1111111111111111 
"It should be required reading 
for every American 
with a ,~,Dental age o~ 
... 
twelve -==~ ~--- ~~---
--~ 
~ 
The book that will ~ 
radically change 
American thinking 
about the environ-
. 
mental crisis. 
A1fred·A·Knopf 
THE YALE CO-OP 
77 Broodwoy, New Haven 
STORE HOURS 
Daily 9:15 -
5:30. Thursdays U ntil 9



O~T~~ 
~ other thin~ -like 
~roxUW,i"im/!Kff, ctllrr~~, 
/ef{~meKt/; iHPifiTtiaHJ:/Y§tTJ, 
6rodiKres/6Htixuli1f, de.$¥/~, 
llHIIONJtCQ~rtw6.,ftrms,cnr~ t:c. •• • 
Goodway Copy Center 624-0194 
196 COLLEGE ST.) bet. crown~~


Getting things 
together 
A close-fitting~hirt of Arnel" 
triacetate jersey in a small neat 
print. Brown, wine or 
0 
navy, small to extra-large, s 13. 
Boot-flared jeans in denim-blue 
polyester knit with white top-stitching, 
29 to 40 sizes, s25. The belt, a 
I~ -inch width of brown cowhide, . 
buckle from our collection of coin 
replicas and sculptural motifs. 
From 30 to 40-inch waists, sg_ 
THE UNIVERSITY SHOI' 
SAKS FIFTH AVENUE 
?90 York Slreet. New Haven


Y~l~ 
Punc~lon 
Vn•vt•s•lt of Mtttuc•n 
Ht w Yor ' 
Whtlf" Pl.atn\ 
Scu•n&f•t'ld 
CA•Orn C•IJ 
Boston 
a.,. Cynw yd 
WUhtniiOI'I 
AllARfA 
ft L•~o~OruJ,a1 t 
ChtCJ&O 
S ll~ll •t 
OtltO•f 
Troy 
PtliOAito 
PhO'"ft! •


**Title: Unnamed Article**
**Author: Southern New England Telephone**

A good word, a bright idea. They're better when you 
tell someone. And if you can't get together over a beer 
or a cup of coffee, then get on the phone and call. 
If your friend's in California, low long distance rates 
from 5 to 11 p.m. weeknights let you telephone clear 
across the country for 85¢ plus tax, for three minutes, 
when you dial without operator assistance. It's only 
70¢ Saturdays and up to 5 p.m. Sundays. 
The telephone can help to bring you together, and 
that's what sharing is all about. Right? Right. 

