Publication date: November 2003
Volume: 36
Issue number: 2


**MASTHEAD:**
- PUBLISHER: Michael Addison
- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Kathryn Malizia
- MANAGING EDITORS: jacob Blecher, Clinton Carroll
- DESIGNER: jessica Chang
- PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR: Paige Atkinson
- ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Fkra Lichtman, Paige Austin
- RESEARCH DIRECTOR: AnaMufzoz
- CIRCULATION AND SUBSCRIPTIONS MANAGER: Ana Munoz
- Staff: Romy Drucker • Maeve Herbert • Charlotte Howard • Tom Isler • Coco Krumme • Adriane Quinlan • April Rabkin
- Mnnbm and Directors: Emily Bazelon • Joshua Civin • Peter B. Cooper • Tom Griggs • Brooks Kdley • Daniel Kurtz-Phelan • Jennifer Pires • Henry Schwab • Elizabeth Sledge • David Slifka • Fred Strebeigh • Thomas Strong • John Swansburg
- Advisors: Richard Blow • Jay Carney • Richard Conniff • Ruth Conniff • Elisha Cooper • Julia Presron • Lauren Rabin • Sreven Weisman • Daniel Yergin
- Frirods: Steve Ballou • Anson M. Beard, Jr. • Blaire Bennett • Edward B. Bennerr, Jr. • Edward B. Bennett III • Paul S. Bennett • Richard Blow • Martha Branr • Jay Carney • Daphne Chu • Josh Civin • Jonathan M. Clark • Constance Clement • Elisha Cooper • Peter B. Cooper • Andy Court • Masi Denison • Albert J. Fox • Mrs. Howard Fox • David Freeman • Geoffrey Fried • Sherwin Goldman • David Greenberg • Tom Griggs • Stephen Hellman • Jane Kamensky • Brooks Kelley • Roger Kirwood • Lewis E. Lehrman • Jim Lowe • E. Nobles Lowe • Martha E.  eil • Peter eill • Howard H. Newman • Sean O'Brien • Julie Peters • Lewis and Joan Plan • Josh Plaut • Julia Preston • Lauren Rabin • Fairfax C. Randal • Stuart Rnhrer Arleen and Arthur Sager • Richard Shields • W. Hampton Sides • l.isa Silverman • Elizabeth and William Sledge • Adina Proposco and David Sulsman • Thomas Srrong • Elizabeth Tare • Daniel Yergin and Angela Stem Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- FEATURES
- Home Alone - Clinton Carroll
- Tune In, Turn Out - C harlotte Howard
- There Goes the Neighborhood - Maeve Herbert
- STANDARDS
- Points of Departure
- Shots in the Dark: Fast Times - Emma Pollack-Ptlzntr
- The Critical Angle: Learning from the Masters - Adriltnt Quinlan
- Endnote: Taxicab ConfessionaJ - David Zax


**Title: Home Alone**
**Author: Clinton Carroll**
**Page number(s): 10**

Can a modest welfare program put New Haven's broken families back together?


**Title: Tune In, Turn Out**
**Author: C harlotte Howard**
**Page number(s): 16**

How an unexpectedly contentious election made '\.%rd One matter.


**Title: There Goes the Neighborhood**
**Author: Maeve Herbert**
**Page number(s): 22**

Plant invaders pit a small Connecticut town against nature.


**Title: Shots in the Dark: Fast Times**
**Author: Emma Pollack-Ptlzntr**
**Page number(s): 14**



**Title: The Critical Angle: Learning from the Masters**
**Author: Adriltnt Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 26**



**Title: Endnote: Taxicab ConfessionaJ**
**Author: David Zax**
**Page number(s): 30**


**Being and Nothingness**
**Author: Romy Drucker**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
Being and Nothingness 
' 
ON THE CROWDED POSTER BOARDS around 
Yale's campus, one can almost always find 
a tacked-up flier that boasts the alluring 
benefits of yoga, meditation or Pilates. 
Despite the current pop culture obsession 
with 
physio-soulful 
nourishment, 
Buddhism at Yale, a relatively new mem-
ber of the Yale Religious Ministry, is more 
than a passing fad. With a permanent 
home in the Indigo Blue Center for 
Buddhist life at Yale, and a chaplain dedi-
cated to the cause, Buddhism on campus 
promises to be more than a new millenni-
um trend. For several years, Yale Buddhist 
Chaplain Bruce Blair, class of 1981, has 
been quietly. and lovingly sprinkling the 
seeds of Buddhism in 'the campus's rockiest 
areas 
these places that exist not . in the 
landscape, but in the mind. Blair seeks to 
alleviate the feelings of desperation, angst, 
fear, and anxiety that are familiar to so many 
Yale students. According to Blair, we have all 
tried at one time or another to deny these 
feelings rather than to cope with their reality. 
Blair is trying to create a space for Yale stu-
dents to explore and recapture their lost real-
ity 
a space where people ~an contemplate 
"fitting into the myth," as Blair puts it, and 
perhaps attempt to understand life's difficul-
• ues. 

According to Blair, Buddhism is a space 
in the modern sense of the word. In the feng 
shui of Yale, in which each organization and 
department form part of an academic and 
spiritual aesthetic, Buddhism sets out to be a 
"source of our strength that gives us the 
capacity to be who we are." It is about broad-
ening our perspectives and eschewing reli-
giosity or routine. It makes us ask the difficult 
questions: How are we supposed to feel? How 
do we relate to one another? Does it matter? 
Blair cites the nation's contemplative 
mood in the aftermath of September II as the


source of Yalies' newfound interest in 
Buddhism. Many religious leaders thought 
students should have a place to go cope, 
grieve, and think in the long hours between 
9pm and 3am. In typical Zen fashion, Bruce 
suggested that silence would be the most 
effective way of reaching out to students. The 
religious ministry agreed. "Most of the people 
who showed up who were most distraught 
were not those who had lost people in 9/n. It 
was people who had lost people but hadn't 
grieved until that time," Blair says. "9/n 
brought questions to mind that people had 
not taken the time to consider." These expres-
sions of delayed grief were a ·precursor for 
"Silence, Candlelight, and Tea," a new daily 
observance between midnight and 2am in 
Battell ChapeL "It is a place where people can 
be alone with their questions," Blair says. 

According to his philosophy, as our thoughts 
race faster than our feet and our ignitions 
turn to over-drive, sometimes we iose sight of 
the reason we are here. Buddhism asks us to 
be aware of our uniqueness. In silence, we can 
actively listen to the things we are most 
likely to tune out and consider the why 
behind our particular existence. 

This Zen movement is not only about 
going to meditation instruction on 
Monday and Wednesday evenings. Nor is it 
about stopping by Battell for tea and quiet 
during midterms (though both are highly 
recommended.) A dedication to Buddhism 
requires much more than observing for five 
minutes, however pleasant or beautiful. 
These beginnings are easy, but the rewards 
of Buddhism do not ~orne so quickly. 

Blair's work aims to create a lasting space 
on our campus, a bastion of scholarship 
and learning that is comfortable not having 
all the answers . 
.In Western culture, the word "empty" 
has acquired a negative connotation. If 
something is empty, it is in some way inferi-
or. But in the Buddhist teaching, to empty 
oneself can be cleansing 
we finally hear the 
rhythmic clicking of your fingers on a key-
board, the icy scratch of a pencil on a note-
book, the chiming bells of Harkness tower. 
"We can very easily become our criticisms," 
Blair observes. "The Dharma teaches we need 
to work from a pla.ce of love not from a place 
of fear. We must learn how to truly honor 
ourse ves. 

But for all Blair's instruction, he knows 
that Buddhism is not really meant to be ver-
balized. "The Dao that is spoken is not the 
real Dao," he laughs, aware of the paradox of 
discussing Buddhism as part of an article, or 
..... 
as anything outside of the internal sel£ But 
this article is neither posing as the Dao, nor 
as a mission. "It is absolutely necessary to 
speak of this in a way that's not confronta-
tional," Bruce said concernedly. "It is about 
Truth, Tone, and Timeliness," he said. This 
applies to both Zen master and disciple, to 
those outside of.Zen, and even to this article. 
THE NEw JouRNAL 


**Beyond the Grave**
**Author: April Rabkin**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

As I write, there is an exchange taking place 
about truth. But then the question arises: 
How do we communicate truth? Where do 
we listen for it? What language do we use? 
These questions get at the very heart of why 
it is important to talk about Buddhism as a 
philosophy and as a University presence. 
Whether in tea and silence, or in abstract 
musings, Buddhism at Yale may be able break 
the hectic cycles of college life. 
Beyond the Grave 
"My FRIEND PASSED AWAY 
this summer," a woman in 
the audience announced, 
brushing her hair back with 
her hand. "I was at my 
boyfriend's house, sleeping 
in the basemenc. I woke up 
and saw this black shape. 
Then I saw a white light 
coming out from behind it. 
It came out of this, like, 
white background." Her 
-Romy Drucker 
voice began to tremble. "The black shape 
looked like my friend. I think I saw my 
friend's ghost." 

Lorraine Warren shook her head. "No, 
that's not possible," she said. 
"She was drunk!" someone yelled. 
Spectators guffawed and murmured. "What?" 
the woman mouthed, speechless. 
"The figure of a human spirit would 
never be black," said Mrs. Warren. "Human 
spirits only appear as white." 

Lorraine Warren, Connecticut's celebrity 
ghost hunter, had just finished a spectacular 
two-hour lecture before an audience of 1_,300 
in an auditorium at Southern Connecticut 
Novnnn!R 2.003 
State University. Warren's grandmotherly 
demeanor belies her extraordinary powers. 
Bumping into her on the street, with her gray 
hair tied back in a bun, and clad in a black 
sweater speckled with large orange pumpkins, 
one would never imagine that she's one of 
America's preeminent experts on spirits and 
demonology and a co-founder of the New 
England Institute of Psychic Research-
membership $30. 

One also may not have guessed that Mrs. 
Warren can see "light transcendent media," 
but she can. "She can see your health, your 
www.warn:ns.net 
state of mind, before you even 
open your mouth," said Tony 
Spera, her colleague and son-
in-law. "Gold and red, for 
instance, mean a lot," he 
added. 

Warren does not appear 
to be particularly "clairaudial" 
or "clairvisual." But these sixth 
and seventh senses-the abili-
ty to see and hear supernatural 
phenomena-have propelled 
Mrs. Warrren and her husband 
through 55 lucrative years of 
"supernatural investigation and manage-
ment." The couple has dedicated their lives to 
battling goblins, sprites, and other "evil spir-
its who exist for the sheer purpose of oppos-
ing the works of God." 

Lorraine's husband, the equally famous 
Ed Warren, is a theological demonologist. 
From his title, one might assume Warren 
worships the devil. Not so. ":We worship 
God," said Spera, "because if you worship 
God, God is more powerful than any 
demon." 

Being on God's side, however, doesn't 
make demonology easy. Being born with 
super senses means you must work with 
demons who are not very good at following 
directions. Demonology is a risky business. 
"I've been punched, thrown across rooms, 
slashed. I've had burn marks across my body," 
Mr. Warren testified on a cas Halloween spe-
cial. Lorraine added that in the most deadly 
haunted houses, knives have flown across the 
room. "Some places aren't worth saving," she 
shrugged. 

The ghost-busting duo found each other 
more than half a century ago, while attending 
the same art school. In 1952., they founded the 
New England Society for Psychic Research, 
and since then they have witnessed 10,000 
"hauntings and paranormal activity," or 
about four ghosts a week. 

In the packed scsu auditorium, Mrs. 
Warren and Tony Spera showed slide afrer 
slide of indisputable hard evidence of the 
supernatural and taught the audience, mostly 
college students, how to interpret these pho-
tographs. 
"I'll point her out--eyes, nose, ears, spir-
it aura, " Warren said with the authority of a 
college professor, as she flicked her red laser 
beam across the screen to focus on the image's 
key features. 
"The woman you're going to see is a 
Satanist," said Spera gravely, before changing 
the slide. "See the monster in her hair?" At 
first the slide seemed only to depict a 
woman's hair, which had so much body she 
could have modeled for Vidal Sassoon, but if 
you stared hard enough you could just make 
out an angry, devilish face scaring right back. 

Ghosts appear on ftlm even when the 
human retina doesn't pick them up, Mrs. 
Warren explained. "All they have to do is 
think of what they want to look like, and that 
is how they appear," she said. Some choose to 
appear as floating orbs of light, some as 
Pillsbury Doughboy-like creatures, and some 
ghosts, called "avenging spirits," feign large 
wingspans for their haunting affect. "Oh my 


God. That's fucking scary," said the woman 
behind me. Indeed. 

"That's your typical Halloween ghost. 
You see the appendages 
arms, legs, hands, 
and head. But when there's one ghost, there's 
always more than one." When spirits congre-
gate with other ghosts to form a swirling tor-
nado, they are called "ghost veils," and they 
suck the energy out of the ground, typically 
leaving a cold spot in a cemetery. "That ener-
gy is drawn from animal and plant life. That 
is what the spirit draws upon in order to pro-
ject this image onto your ftlm." 

But it takes an expert to identify them. 
In one slide, what we thought was a ghost 
veil, with magnification, proved to be a col-
umn of dozens of faces of World War II vet-
erans haunting a living room. 

Sometimes, however, 
understanding 
spirits requires some historical background . 
For instance, in one photograph of a seem-
ingly ordinary window, Lorraine pointed to 
an image in the glass of two children in ante-
bellum-style clothes. But this was not a reflec-


cion, Lorraine explained, because the children 
had drowned 30 years before the picture was 
taken. 

One of the clairaudial segments of the 
presentation was an audiotape of Ed Warren 
talking with a spirit named Fred in 1977· 
Ed: "Were you a Christian?" 
Fred: [grumble, mutter} soldjah. 
Ed: What did he say? 
Other voice: He. said, "No, a soldier.
1
Ed: Aren't soldiers Christian? 
Fred: No answer. · 
Ed: Are you a Christian? 
Fred: [ruff! ruff!] 

Ed: What do you think of we Americans? 
Do you like us? 
Fred: [low growl] 

Ed and Lorraine have authored nine 
books including Deliver Us from Evz1, The 
Devil in Connecticut, and Werewolf, and have 
been the subject of two movies. Lorraine has 
continued the couple's educational lecture 
series at high schools and colleges across the 
country. 

Ed and Lorraine's basement, now con-
verted into a museum, harbors a collection of 
· "possessed artifacts." A Raggedy Andy doll, 
called Annibelle or the · "Devil's Doll," is 
responsible for the deaths and dismember-
ment of several who have dared to· mock it . 

"He died that night; she never walked again," 
Lorraine lamented. Now Annibelle is safely 
encased behind glass. There's a Ouija board 
alongside a collection of Hindu and Buddha 
figurines, costume jewelry, playing cards, 
busts, and plastic skulls. One fan wrote on a 
Warren fan club website, "Many times I have 
stared into Annibelle's eyes, many times from 
just outside the glass. It is truly an experience 
you would never forget." 
-April Rabkin 


**School of Thought**
**Author: [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 6**

School ofThought 
TucK F.D IN FIVE FORMER OFFICES, at the end 
of a fluorescent-lit hallway, above the 
Connecticut Mental Health Center, is the 
newest addition to the New Haven Public 
School system. New Haven Academy opened 
this fall, but just barely. The magnet school 
gained accreditation in June, only three 
months before the fall term, leaving little 
time to recruit students and teachers. The 
Academy organized its own admissions lot-
tery for its first class of 65 from a pool of 250. 
But those accepted won a dubious prize: 
admission to a school whose location had not 
yet been secured. 

In late July, just a month before opening, 
the school's founders, the husband and wife 
team of Gregory Baldwin and Meredith 
Gavrin, secured a second-story office space 
off Nicoll Street. This last minute accom-
plishment came after six hard years of prepa-
ration. In 1998, the couple left their jobs at 
the Institute for Collaborative Education, a 
thriving magnet school in New York City, 
hoping to create a similar school in New 
Haven. When they arrived, they spent a year 
meeting with anyone in NHPS who seemed 
willing to provide a support system. When 
they finally opened, these connections proved 
invaluable. 

New Haven Academy does not resemble 
the prototypical high school with spacious 
hallways and rows of lockers. No one chats in 
the cafeteria or loiters in the hall. Students are 
always several feet from their next class. The 
closest thing to a cafeteria is a vending 
machine, and the library consists of a cart of 
laptop computers. Currently, the school uses 
the East Rock Magnet School library for its 
weekly school-wide "town meeting," and they · 
hope to secure use of the gym as well. 

Despite meager resources, Baldwin 
remains optimistic: The school's intimate 
space, he says, is actually conducive to his 
vision. The seven faculty members know all 
the students personally and because students 
are so physically close, no one can hide. "Two 
months ago I didn't know these 65 families 
that I now know really well," he said. 

Baldwin's program brings to New Haven 
an amalgamation of present public education 
philosophies. For example, the Academy has 
embraced a program called "Facing History 
and Ourselves," which examines historical 
movements of oppression. The related moral 
choices discussed within the class will inform 
his students' everyday decisions, and promote 
their civic engagement. As a member of the 
Coalition of Essential Schools, the Academy 
aims to create small, racially diverse and intel-
lectually challenging learning environments. 
THE NEW jOURNAL 



**Title: New Haven Academy**
**Author: Concha Mendoza**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The school has had success in creating a 
close-knit environment, where the entire fac-
ulty collaborates to monitor student progress. 


Individual students are discussed at faculty 
meetings, allowing teachers from different 
subjects to comment on ways to help trou-
bled students. One student at the school; 
once known for her disruptive behavior, has 
learned that this attitude is not acceptable at 
this school. The student now voices her opin-
ions in class and has become a discussion 
leader, Baldwin said. Her accomplishments 
showcase the founder's primary goal: prepar-
ing students for college by teaching them to 
speak out, participate, and think on their 
own. Instead of rote memorization, students 
learn what questions to ask when they are 
studying and how to develop their own ideas 
and criticisms from the material they are 
• 
gtven. 


But Baldwin does more than philoso-
phize. He wears more hats and more latex 
gloves than most principals, who only inter-
act with students through chance hallway 
confrontations. Along with being a teacher, 
secretary, and guidance counselo~, Baldwin 
also acts as a "hall monitor, custodian, and 
lunchroom supervisor." Baldwin and Gavrin 
knew life at a small school could be like this, 
and Baldwin cherishes the intimacy that 
allows him to develop a stronger, more casual 
relationship with students. The couple hopes 
to stay at New Haven Academy until they 
retire, and Baldwin imagines his school 
becoming a resource for the greater New 
Haven community. But this, he says, "is like 
a rookie saying what he will do when he gets 
really good." For now, Baldwin is busy hand-
ing out city bus tokens, and answering 
phones. 
-Concha Mendoza


**Title: Peculiar Institution**
**Author: Jocelyn Courtney**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

WHEN I FIRST ENTERED THE BACKROOM of 
the Eli Whitney Museum, it felt more like the 
North 
Pole 
at 
Christmas time 
than 
Connecticut. The walls were lined with book-
shelves bearing toy soldiers and brightly 
painted wooden dolls. Giant model planes 
swung from the ceiling. I half-expected an elf 
to peep out from behind one of the piles of 
old-fashioned wooden board games on the 
counters. I was even greeted by a tall jolly 
man with white hair. Clearly, here was the 
master of this whimsical toyshop. 


But behind this child's paradise was not 
NOVEMBER 2003 
" 
Santa, but Bill Brown, the director of the Eli 
Whitney Museum. Unlike Santa, Brown ·· 
wears a prominent patch over his right eye, 
. and works in an office where employees' cos-
tumed dogs roam freely. Comfortable in an 
atmosphere as unorthodox as he is, Brown 
tends to the daily affairs of the museum and 
spins the history of one visionary to imple-
ment the ideas of another. 


Eli Whitney, Yale class of 1792, may have 
been one of America's most innovative inven-
tors, but his groundbreaking work was often 
used for sinister aims. Whitney designed 
guns, and most famously invented the cotton 
gin, the machine almost solely responsible for 
sustaining the institution of slavery in 
America. Despite Whitney's dubious legacy, 
Brown has found a way to promote his 
unique views on education by channeling 
Whitney's innate genius and passion as an 
inventor. ''I'm using Eli Whitney," Brown 
explains. "He did not read until he was 
twelve, he. was wonderful with his hands. His 
persona gave me an excuse to institute this 
kind of program which I am sure I would 
.. have just done somewhere else." 


· Brown's liberal view of Whitney has 
inspired a broad repertoire of classes for 
Connecticut kids. The museum organizes 
workshops ranging from a doll-making 
course for three, four, and five-year-olds, to 
instructions on building model airplanes and 
race cars for older students. He has developed 
an extensive selection of projects for 
preschoolers to high school students, all 
focusing on kinetic learning, a type of 
instruction not normally present in the class-
room. Brown, originally trained as a clinical 
sociologist, claims that "15-20 percent of the 
population is not suited for learning in the 
classroom." The museum advertises these 
projects as a "return to the basics." They are 
modeled after the type of experiments done 
by Da Vinci, Newton, the Wright Brothers, 
and, of course, Whitney. All focus on solving 
problems by working with your hands. 


Brown also attempts to incorporate his-
tory into his projects. In one course, students 
build toy soldiers, which they use to reenact 
wars. Recently, Brown worked with a school 
group to build and reenact Alexander the 
Great's campaign across Persia. "You might 
think it odd since I'm a Quaker that I would 
want to do projects reenacting war, but I have 
observed that if you learn the history of bat-
tles, you also learn how worthless they are and 
how much you don't want to have them," 
Brown said, extending this message into a 
warning: "Some modern leaders should real-


ize that nobody ever conquered Persia suc-
cessfully." Ironically, the very site where these 
pacifist lessons are now being taught was once 
the factory for Winchester Repeating Arms 
Company, the largest firearms manufacturer 
in the United States. 


Brown looks for students in these group 
activities that especially excel at hands-on 
projects. It is these children that are invited 
back to work for the museum as members of 
the apprenticeship program. The program 
employs up to 75 high school students who 
spend from 50 to 500 hours a year developing 
building challenges for younger students~ ·. 
helping to run the museum and working on 
inventions of their own. "I have learned that 
people who often struggle in the classroom 
paradoxically have the gift that makes them 
great car builders," Brown explained. Many 
of these apprentices have gone on to excel in 
the design field or in computers, and one 
even participates in model airplane competi-
tions on a national team. 


Besides helping students, . the school-
wide projects also give the museum workers 
an opportunity to observe students in a labo-
ratory-like setting. Bill Brown spends time 
observing the basic behavioral patterns of the 
students he teaches, and has developed a wide 
array of sociological theories. For example, 
one project asks a group of female elementary 
students to build a castle from materials of 
their choice. Brown has noticed that although 
girls often build a "womb structure," which is 
what psychologists predict, they also at times 
build a "phallic structure," a form more often 
chosen by boys. 


"These programs are for the people that 
don't necessarily go to school or finish col-
lege," Brown says. "It's hard to be the one 
who does the. exploring," he said, referring to 
dropouts. Brown claims that this is not only 
because families don't approve, but also 
because society itself, in its very nature, is 
against them. "It is much easier to go Yale, 
which makes your mother happy, as opposed 
to doing something else," Brown said 
brusquely. 


Although Bill Brown has a refreshingly 
non-academic vision of learning, it is also a 
romantic one. He seems to be using the lega-
cy of a man whose life was in many ways dia-
metrically· opposed to the values he is trying 
to teach the children who go through his 
museum. The museum's guidebook reports 
that the museum is contemplating changing 
its name to the Whitney Workshop. Perhaps 
it would be more accurate to drop Whitney 
from the title altogether. 
-Jocelyn Courtney


**Title: Doctor Strangelove**
**Author: Pau Hamilton**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

UNSATISFIED AND DESPERATE, I decided to seek 
professional help. I needed a watering hole in 
the emotional tundra that was my life. So I 
arranged to meet with radio talk-show host, 
New Haven Advocate advice columnist, and 
self-proclaimed "Love Queen," Dr. Linda 
Olsen. As I waited inside the Chapel Street 
Starbucks, my imagination ran wild about the 
woman behind the crown, a woman whose love 
life I could only begin to imagine in my wildest 
dreams, a woman who in a deep, smoky voice 
shared her hard-earned boudoir knowledge 
with America's emotionally needy. I heard 
"Love Queen" and thought "Queen of the 
Night." Dr. Linda, however, did not have copi-
ous amounts of cheap plastic jewelry, dangling 
bra straps, or an alias of "Madame Chloe." The 
stylishly coiffed blonde I met that sunny after-
noon in Starbucks screamed Greenwich, not 
Greenwich Village. Clad in a cream-colored 
dress-suit and multi-carat cut diamond ear-
rings, Dr. Linda looked sort of normal. 


I only knew· Dr. Linda from her weekly 
column in the Advocate, but I soon learned that 
she is much more than a sex advice columnist. 
A clinical psychologist with a doctorate from 
Emory University, as well as a trained therapist, 
she preaches to the lovelorn across Connecticut 
as the host of the radio call-in show "America's 
Love Doctor." But she is far from satisfied. Dr. 
Linda won't settle for anything less than the 
summit of her field: "You know how Martha 
Stewart is the 'Home Queen'? I want to be the 
'Love Queen,"' she declared. I was excited by 
the prospect of being coached by a trained 
expert 
someone who has honed the art of 
"partner selection" down to a science. I believed 
I was in good hands. 


We sat down at a cozy table near the win-
dow, and the doctor began to decipher the mys-
terious code that is love. "You have to under-
stand the basics of partner selection," she 
leaned in to tell me. "People, particularly teens, 
just don't understand. You have to ask yourself, 
'Who am I? What do I want? What do I want 
in a partner?' If you don't know what you want 
or what you are, you can't give much to a rela-
tionship." I think I know the answers to those 
questions, but what if my 'Mr. Right' has 
already passed me by? "There is definitely no 
such thing as just one soul mate," Dr. Linda 
reassured me, "but rather three or four that 
you'll meet in your lifetime." 


I sat fascinated as Dr. Linda continued to 
reveal her teachings. She is a proponent of the 
theoretically-based 
and 
"clinically-tested" 
"Imago Theory" of partner selection, which 
claims that each person possesses an inner 
"Imago." According to Dr. Linda's website love-
doctor. com, "Your Imago" is the image carried 
in your mind of that 'perfect partner' who can 
make you feel complete. The Imago forms dur-
ing childhood and draws on a combination of 
the positive and negative traits of the people 
who raise you. In essence, each of us will be 
irresistibly drawn to three or four "perfect" 
mates during our life-mates who will all share 
defining traits with our parents. These select 
few are our "Imago matches." These matches 
are supposed to be able to complete the unfin-
ished business of our childhood. "You're find-
ing the lost part of yourself," Dr. Linda 
explained. 


I had never thought that I might not be 
"whole." The idea of love as a scavenger hunt 
for self completion terrified me. I needed to be 
convinced that fulfillment was indeed possible. 
For Dr. Linda, her own romantic experience is 
proof enough: "I followed my high school 
sweetheart to college," she told me. "I didn't 
have a due about partner selection. I eventual-
ly decided he wasn't intelligent enough for me 
... that's why I left the relationship." Now hap-
pily married and the mother of three young 
boys, Dr. Linda believes Imago worked for her. 
"Don't settle," she advises, "What attracts you 
[now) will irritate the crap out of you later." 


Soon Dr. Linda will be doling out more 
than mere advice. She is currently managing 
the release of her product line, "The True Love 
Collection," set to hit stores this Valentine's 
Day. The "Collection" will include everything a 
couple needs to keep the flame alive, including 
the "True Love Journal, the "Gourmet 
Chocolate Lovebite," and the "Journey to 
Love" musical CD which articulates in song the 
Imago Theory stages of love. 


At this point, my doubts mounted about 
having a love counselor at all. As reassuring as 
this packaged advice sounded, I found myself 
Starting to feel repelled by the prospect of a 
trademarked path to love. After all, shouldn't I 
be learning these love lessons on my own? Love 
therapy and counseling is popular these days, 
and Dr. Linda is just one of many catering to a 
lovesick American public. Her radio show was 
rtcendy syndicated and her book will soon hit 
shelves everywhere. Imago Theory could 
become a national phenomenon. Dr. Linda's 
advice has the potential to help people all over 
the nation, but on at least one issue in life, this 
londy romantic is a conservative. For matters of 
the heart, Frank Sinatra is still the only Love 
Doctor I need. 
-Pau Hamilton


THE .VERY 
BEST 
PLACE IN 
NEW 
HAVEN 
TO BUY THE 
PERFECT 
GIFT FOR THE 
IMPOSSIBLE 
TO SHOP FOR 
PERSON 
LONDON 
1209 Chapel Street, New Haven (between Park and Howe) 
Free parking in rear 
203-787-4496 
Holiday Hours: Nov-Dec open 7 days 


WINES 
& LtauoR..s 
LARGE SELECTION OF FINE WINES 
CHAMPAGNES & EXOTIC LIQUORS 
IMPORTED & DOMESTIC BEERS 
LOCAL DELIVERIES 
SPECIAL RATES ON WINE CASES 
175 Wooster St. New Haven 
203 777-7572 



**Title: The State of Child Welfare in Connecticut**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
~--------------co----------------------- --------~-
• 
N SEPTEMBER 26, 1998, 15-year-old Tabatha Brendle hung herself 
in her bedroom at the Long Lane School, a now defunct juvenile 
facility for violent teens in Middletown, Connecticut. Before her 
stay at. Long Lane, Brendle had endured years of physiCal and sexual 
abuse at home. The state was never able to intervene. Brendle's suicide 
revealed a disturbing trend: Unlike in the I960S and I970S., when most 
children in need of protective serVices were orphans or children of ter-
minally ill parents, today children like Breridle are more often victims 
of unspeakable acts of physical, sexual, and emotional abuse. · 
Today, horror stories of children under state care appear in news- · 
papers all the time. The Connecticut system is no exception. In 
September 1994, a 19-month-old Waterbury girl named Tazjin Jones, 
whose family was under the watch of the Department of Children and 
Families (ocF), was beaten to death by her mother's boyfriend. On 
March 13, 1995, a 9-momh-old Emily Hernandez, died under similar 
circumstances. In 1999, five children were removed from the care of 
their Manchester foster parents after one of them, a 4-year-old girl, was 
allegedly burned with cigarettes and forced to eat her own excrement. 
In fiscal year 2003 there were 95,214 allegations of child endanger-
ment statewide, 20,322 of which were substantiated by DCF . . Of these 
20,322 unlucky children, 1.437 were physically abused, . 4,528 were 
"emotionally. neglected, II 12,053 were II physically neglected," and 573 
were sexually abused. In New Haven alone, 1,387 cases of child endan-
. 
germent were subst;mtiated in 2003. In the mid 1990s, responding to 
similar statistics and to the shocking deaths of Jones and Hernandez, 
DCF changed its philosophy. Whereas the agency had once pushed for 
family preservation at all costs, it now began to place the well-being of 
its children above family, stability, and community 
all things lauded 
IO 
by the old administration. With this shift in policy came new prob-
lems. Workers were now hyper-vigilant and, fearing the consequences 
of new beatings o:r additional suicides, began to yank children out of 
their homes at the slightest signs of parental indiscretion. 

Once removed from their homes, though, many children were 
- victims of further abuse. These ·children 
molested, beaten, starved, 
and neglected 
req~ired medical and psychiatric attention that DCF 
could no·t always provide. Consequently, some of Connecticut's most 
difficult children were being placed in some of the state's most inexpe-
rienced foster homes, with parents green to the very idea of foster care, 
let alone the notion of ~aring for special-needs children. Five years ago, 
faced with a pending class action lawsuit, a handful of tragedies, and 
endless criticism from the press, DCF initiated a bold project, the 
Supportive Housing for Families Program (sHF), which promised con-
structive change and maybe even a solution. 

Two weeks ago SHF was presented with the Touch of Life Award by 
the United Way of Greater New Haven. The award was a sign that 
DCF's reputation is on the mend. Yet this reputation hangs in a delicate 
balance, as one of DCF's biggest threats is also one ,of the hardest to 
. gauge. Betsy Cronin, Program Director for SHF, points out that one of 
the biggest problems facing DCF in 2003 is . the difficulty of reunifYing 
reformed parents with their children. 

When parents go to jail or check into drug treatment centers, they 
give up everything 
property, possessions, and. their children. Once 
rehabilitated, parents can regain custody only if they find adequate 
housing. But the housing market in Connecticut is expensive and 
options are limited. The farther one ventures from New Haven, where 
drugs and crime routinely tear families apart, the more one has to pay. 
' 
THE NEw JouRNAL 


--- Page 11 ---

The result is a disheartening cacch-22 in which parents who wane co 
reconnect with their children are prevented from doing so by the tur-
bulent past they are trying to leave behind. They cannot take charge of 
their new lives, since rene everywhere--shore of the most ravaged 
neighborhoods in Connecticut's worse cities-is high, and landlords 
are unwilling co accommodate crack addicts, prostitutes, and criminals 
looking to launch their American Dream. Without a stable home to 
return to, their children are left to the whims of a crude foster care sys-
tem. 

N 
ORMA HAS LONG BLACK HAIR. SLEEPY EYES, and a smile that oscil-
lates berween guarded, nervous, and friendly. We chat at a table 
in the middle of an old ballroom at the SHF office in New Haven. 
Her story is fragmented, her words alternately convoluted and familiar, 
melting together into a classic story of mental illness, urban poverty, 
and loss. 

SHF officials, the champions of the nuclear family, sit on 
either side of us, watching as I ask Norma about drugs, lost children, 
and pain. Upon first impression Norma does not seem to be a mem-
ber of a functional family. She has one 16-month-old son, a teenage 
daughter who lives with Norma's adoptive dad, and a 7-year-old who 
has lived with his paternal grandmother since he was four months old. 
Her family seems markedly dysfunctional, yet many mornings SHF 
delivers the paper to her little country apartment, gives her rides, helps 
her with errands, and dispenses neighborly advice. 

Her life is 
remarkably normal. 

As a child, Norma was given up for adoption 
after her mother was deemed 
unstable. She hated her new parents, especially her adoptive father. 
When she was 13 years old, she ran away to New Haven, where she 
knew her mother resided. Norma spent three rain-soaked nights look-
ing for her house, asking strangers whether they knew her. Eventually 
she found someone who directed her to a house on a street that no 13-
year-old had any business visiting. She rang the doorbell, scared, excit-
ed, full of hatred, love, and confusion, and was greeted by the woman 
who had given her up years earlier. After Norma introduced herself, 
the woman cold her co leave and never come back. 

Norma started doing drugs when she was 15. She would gee high 
during the day because doing it at night was coo scary and too emo-
tional. Soon she got pregnane and gave birch co a daughter whom she 
immediately turned over to her adoptive father. Her drug abuse spi-
raled out of control, and after having three more children, rwo of 
whom the state permanently removed from her care, she ended up in 
jail. After being released she faced che possibility of seven more years 
in prison. She was a physical and emotional mess, but somehow, she 
started co improve. She sobered up, gave birth co a fifth child, a baby 
boy, and got involved with SHF through The Connection, 
a comprehensive community organi-
zation established in 1972, 

II 


--- Page 12 ---

"in response to the devastation being wrought 
on families as a result of addiction, crime, 
abuse, and neglect." 

SHF has a strategy for dealing with people 
like Norma. For recovering addicts or child 
abusers, the biggest barrier to good parenting, 
aside from mental problems, is affordable and 
safe housing. SHF is first and foremost an 
advocacy group which specializes in finding 
suitable housing for its clientele. Since land-
lords do not readily hand over property to the 
type of people in need of state intervention, 
SHF forms its own relationships with local 
landlords. According to Cronin, SHF is in 
good standing with over 50 landlords in New 
Haven alone. The organization also employs 
two full-time housing coordinators who 
inspect tenements, ensuring cleanliness and 
livability. Once housing is found, SHF leaves 
it up to the state to help parents cover rent. 
Many SHF clients qualify for a state voucher 
that reduces their rent to a flat rate of 30 to 40 
percent of their income. Parents who would 
otherwise need to work three or four jobs can 
now work only one, and still have money for 
groceries, clothing, transportation, and 
school supplies. 

SHF understands the danger in giving 
former addicts disposable income in 
neighborhoods where drugs are 
readily available. But they also know 
that placing addicts in neighbor-
hoods where drugs are not prevalent 
is expensive. Part of SHF's task is to 
strike a compromise, to fmd a place 

N ITS INITIAL PLANNING OF SHF, the 
Department of Children and Families 
rejected the idea of building new housing 
projects, knowing full well that an entire ten-
The Connection, Inc. (SHP) 
ement of fragile people could be more dan-
gerous than a single household of the same. 
DCF also rejected the idea of expanding 
Connecticut's transitional housing system. 
The system, as officials saw it, was good for 
certain types of people--the loner looking to 
be reintegrated into society, the juvenile 
offender-but was inappropriate for families 
who needed to rebuild stable households. 
Once released from transitional care, parents 
these families would be admitted to the hous-
ing program. 

To date, the number of people SHF has 
helped does not even approach the number of 
Connecticut children neglected in 2003. 
Even so, SHF thinks it has discovered a tenta-
tive, albeit counterintuitive solution to 
Connecticut's problem: Give kids back to 
their neglectful or once abusive parents to 
reestablish a traditional family, but pair these 
reunified families with caring individuals who 
are not overworked social workers, but pro-
fessionals whose sole task is to ensure day-to-
day existence. Give SHF administrators a lit-
de money, stick them under an established 
umbrella organization, and pray for change. 

ORMA NOW LIVES IN THE COUNTRY, 
away from New Haven and five miles 
from the nearest bus stop. If she want-
ed to get high these days, she would have to 
carry her 16-month-old boy over an hour to 
the bus, scrounge up enough money for the 
fare and for drugs, and then somehow get 
back home. This is too much for Norma. 
She spends most of her days bored and alone, 
save for her son. 

In this svste01, 
there are no 
Norma's situation reveals the limitations 
of the program that has tried so 
hard to save her. Four of Norma's 
five children are gone, either living 
with relatives or lost to foster care, 
and she still must wrestle with men-
tal illness and unemployment. She 
now has small support networks. 
far enough from urban centers to be 
safe, and close enough to urban cen-
ters to be affordable. 

Good geography, however, is 
not enough to reunite struggling 
parents and fragile children. The lairvtale endings. 
SHF drops in and helps her out 
when needed. She has reconciled 
with her adoptive father, and visits 
her oldest daughter on a semi-regu-
lar basis. "Our relationship is more 
final task SHF officials face is rehabilitation. In 
conjunction with DCF caseworkers, SHF devel-
ops a battery of wrap-around services for its 
clients, including counseling, vocational 
training, transportations, help with ettands, 
and general support. As Cronin noted, some 
families are so far in debt that they cannot 
even turn on the electricity in their new 
homes. Solving such problems is SHF's spe-
cialty. 

12 
still might not make enough money to pro-
vide housing, and their children would 
inevitably return to state custody. 

DCF finally decided on a "scattered site 
model" 
that had worked in other states. 
They gave this scattered site program a name 
and a budget, and erected it so that a family 
could develop a plan-of-action with DCF case-
workers. If they followed this plan, exhibited 
good faith, and filled out an application, 
sister-sister or friend-friend," she 
explains. She refuses to take credit for her 
daughter's upbringing, in which she played 
no part, giving full credit to her adoptive 
father. She has also recently started speaking 
with her real mother, the same woman who 
coldly rejected her as a girl. 

But this long-awaired reconciliation was 
almost Norma's undoing. When she revisited 
the house, Norma found her mother a differ-
ent woman, softened by encroaching senility. 
THE NEW JouRNAL 



**Norma's Story**
**Author: Clinton Carroll**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
I 
. 
She also found the house a mess. People were 
getting high upstairs, and Norma craved 
drugs more than she had in a year. But for 
some reason, possibly the thought of her son 
back home, she did not get high that day. 
Instead she chatted with the woman she had 
once hated in the middle of a city she desper-
ately wanted to forget. · She continues to 
return there week after week, her craving 
more muted upon each return. 

HOUGH N ORMAS STORY is far from 
happy, she has fared far better than girls 
like Emily Hernandez and Tazjin Jones. 
But nothing can change the fact that she has 
lost four of her children. In this system, there 
are no fairytale endings. 

And for every innovative program like 
SHF initiated by the DCF, there is still an over-
burdened social worker, a forgotten child or 
an 
overlooked 
family. 
Maybe 
the 
Connecticut child welfare system is as good as 
dead. Maybe foster care is a doomed concept. 
But then again, through programs like SHF 
and programs yet unseen, the system has a 
fighting chance 
just as Norma did standing 
on a porch, decades ago, three days sleepless, 
pleading with a woman who said she would 
never accept her. 
. . 
TNJ 
-
Clinton Carroll, a senior in Branford 
College, is Managing Editor for TNJ. 
NOVEMBER 2003 




**Title: The Ward One Race**
**Author: Charlotte Howard**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
UST AFTER EIGHT PM on November 4, a group of students packed into a back room of Yale's Dwight Hall to hear the outcome of the Ward One aldermanic race. Some students had worked on a campaign, some were political activists, some were reporters, and a precious few were there just because. They stood in hushed reverence as a middle-aged man disappeared behind the booths. In the tense silence his disembodied voice read out the tallies. 

On that Tuesday in November, voters in Ward One elected incumbent Ben Healey to represent them on the New Haven Board of Aldermen. But this race didn't merely secure Healey's position on the board, it exalted the Ward One seat itself. Though Healey defeated his opponent Dan Kruger by a three to one margin, this election remained the ward's most contested battle in over fifteen years. The two candidates raised approximately eight times the funding of the 2001 Ward One aldermanic candidates. All kinds of New Haveners - local politicians, labor organizers, Yale students, faculty and administrators - took sides and backed their chosen candidate. Calhoun College Master William Sledge not only contributed to Kruger's campaign financially, but tried to rally support by singing Kruger's praises in the Yale Daily News, endorsing him on campaign flyers that saturated almost every bathroom in his college, and even hosting a reception for him. Mayor John D. DeStefano, Jr. helped Healey reach constituents in a still more vocal way, belting out his support from the steps of Dwight Hall. Devotees on both sides barked at each other in organized public debates, on the radio, and across the op-ed pages of the campus papers. Websites were created, banners hung, "Vote Ben" shirts donned, "Dan for Alderman" pens distributed, and posters, stickers, and buttons were stuck to every available surface. In an historically inactive ward, constituents were finally invested in the outcome of this race. All of a sudden, the Ward One seat seemed to matter.


THE ALDERMAN FROM WARD ONE has always played a unique role in articulating town-gown relations. Bounded by Temple, Park, Wall, and Crown Streets, Ward One contains eight residential colleges, which means 85 percent of its constituents are students. Elected by undergraduates to represent student interests in City Hall, the alderman is the most visible connection between Yale College and New Haven. Any ward's alderman can shape city politics by backing new legislation and serving on town committees, but the layout of the first district gives its alderman a unique position on the board. Michael Morand (SY'87, DN'93) a two-term Ward One Alderman, knows this position well. Elected in 1989 and 1991, Morand remains entrenched in New Haven politics as Associate Vice President of the Yale Office of New Haven and State Affairs. "The first ward alderperson," he said recently, "tends not to have as many constituent service issues, potholes, streetlights, sidewalks, as other alderpeople have, so the first ward alderperson has more time to work on other issues; what those issues are generally reflect the particular times and personalities involved."


The particular time and personalities of the Healey-Kruger race defined the nature of the Ward One position more concretely than has any race since students first vied for the seat. With the administration's ink on contracts for Locals 34 and 35 barely dry, and students' memories of crossing or joining picket lines still fresh, questions about Yale-New Haven relations echoed in the campus's gothic arches. This resonance coincided with an aldermanic race that focused on ideological differences. In past aldermanic races, Democratic candidates could rely on Yale's liberal tilt to slide their Republican opponents off the boards. This race was unique because Kruger ran as an independent and made it clear from the beginning that he largely shared Healey's democratic objectives. "I agree with the basic agenda," he explained during the campaign, "It's the way that we should go about doing it that should give us some pause for thought." Kruger criticized Healey for promoting an "adversarial" relationship with the University and representing "special interests" - namely those of the unions, rather than what he perceived to be student interests. Whether students chose Healey or Kruger, therefore, would be a testament to the way they defined their own involvement in the city, and the means by which they sought to change it.


ONE WAS MORE SURPRISED by the buzz surrounding the race than Kruger himself. A buoyant figure with yellow hair and a tendency to turn beet red whenever he gets nervous, Kruger is alternately a seasoned politico and an eager boy scout. Sipping his lemonade at Atticus Cafe five days before the election, he grinned with boyish optimism. "I didn't think this would be as big an issue for the average undergraduate as it seems to be. I'm excited and somewhat surprised and heartened." Kruger quickly denied the suggestion that he was aligned with the administration, or that his candidacy was just a "knee-jerk reaction" to Healey's affiliation with the unions. So why did he run? Well, there is the issue of poor communication. During his sophomore year, Kruger was appalled to learn he had been redistricted out of Ward One without being informed by his alderman (he has since moved back into the ward). Then there is a Lakeville, Connecticut native's love for his home state. "I'm a big fan of Connecticut," he told a group of students during his campaign. "I grew up in Connecticut ... We're part of a great tradition going back to 1636." Kruger has grown to be a big fan of New Haven as well. His first connection to the city was tinged with a sort of religious fascination. As a child, he explained, he'd seen pictures of New Haven, and thought it "looked like a New Jerusalem." But Kruger was quick to play down any characterization of himself as the city's newest savior. "This isn't about my personal political aspirations or what I want to do and what not. This is just something I've wanted to do this semester ... I felt I could, because of the way academics worked out and I was able to take time off from having a job. It's been good fun."


But if this race was good fun, it was also a lot of work. Though Kruger denies any official alignment with the university, he hints at an informal affiliation. July 7, 2003, was an important day for his campaign. On that midsummer morning, Kruger announced his candidacy by distributing a mass email and launching a campaign website. He also went to City Hall to protest the Naclerio Amendment, a resolution supported by Healey that challenged Yale's tax exemption on its for-profit ventures. "When I went to City Hall there was a picket line, which I actually think is kind of humorous in retrospect. There were Yale managers and administrators picketing, and Master Sledge was one of the ones walking around in a suit and tie with a sign." Kruger and Sledge met more formally a few days later, and Kruger's resume and his vision for New Haven convinced the Master that Dan Kruger was exactly what New Haven's renegade board needed. After the City Hall rally, Kruger attended a reception at the Yale Office of New Haven and State Affairs protesting the amendment to repeal Yale's tax exemption. Kruger claims that he did not use the reception to promote his candidacy publicly, but, he concedes, "Some of the Yale people, the Yale managers, had heard about my campaign, so they were saying things to me." Claudia Merson, the Office's Public School Administrator, and Reginald Solomon, the office's Program Director, each privately contributed to Kruger's campaign. Faculty and administrators took Kruger's candidacy seriously from its beginning. Healey, on the other hand, seemed befuddled by Kruger's challenge. On July 24, he sent Kruger an email informally inviting him to a chat.


Hey Dan,
Would you care to meet for coffee next Wednesday at 5 at Book Trader to chat for a bit? I saw your website, but I feel we are friends and am curious about your motivations for running beyond Yale stuff. It's up to you.
Best,
Ben.

Kruger's response the next day gave a vague, if genuine, explanation for his campaign.

My motivations for running are basic, but not specifically just about Yale or beyond Yale. I've been involved in New Haven since I moved here, and I've been committed to service for my state since I was very young. Connecticut has always been and will always be my home, and I feel a responsibility to give back to our community by helping to build a stronger future ....



**Title: The Ward One Race**
**Author: Charlotte Howard**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
' 
As it happened, Kruger and Healey never met 
for coffee (Kruger was headed out of town to 
do research for his senior essay), and these 
emails were the only private interaction 
between the candidates during the course of 
the campaign. When school began, Kruger's 
campaign was already well underway and 
Healey found himself in unfamiliar territo-
• • 
ry 
a competitive race. 


-IOlJGH HE HAD SERVED on the Board 
of Aldermen for two and a half years, 
Healey had never had to organize a real 
campaign. As a freshman, he was handpicked 
by Mayor DeStefano's staff to replace 
Alderman Julio Gonzalez (CC '99), who was 
leaving his seat to become the mayor's cam-
paign manager in the 2001 election. When 
Healey ran for the Board the following fall, he 
faced no opponent. But even though Healey 
has never needed to prove himself in a cam-
paign, he nonetheless dedicated his resources 
to his job and spent time molding the seat to 
his agenda. In his time on the Board, Healey 
has frequently criticized the nature of Yale's 
involvement in New Haven, and concentrat-
ed on issues reaching far beyond the Yale 
campus. This broad focus demonstrates a new 
path for the Ward One Alderman, and has 
engendered respect and dismay alike across 
the city. Gonzalez himself, now the Mayor's 
Executive Assistant, has only praise for 
Healey. "The platform I had [as alderman] 
was much less focused on the Yale relation-
ship to the city... [Healey] works on issues 
that are relevant to the community . real 
issues that people care about, " Gonzalez said. 


But Sledge recounts a far different history. He 
sees Healey's agenda as "narrow and relatively 
unimaginative," and refers longingly to the 
days of Gonzalez's predecessor, Josh Civin 
(CC'96), who combined a general dedication 
to the city with what Sledge calls "very specif-
ic student oriented issues." 


When Kruger announced his candidacy, 
Healey was waist-deep in his work for New 
Haven. He was struggling to promote the 
Naclerio Amendment, domestic partnership, 
new urban environmental policies, and clean 
elections. He was supporting Locals 34 and 
35, organizing the Immigrant Worker's 
Freedom Ride, and working with the 
Connecticut Center for a New Economy, 
pushing urban families to organize into a 
coalition of working people. A soft-spoken, 
twenty-one year old whose mild manners and 
easy smile belie his hard line politics, Healey 
was busy as usual. Now, for the first time in 
his young political career, he would have to


NOVEMBER 2003 
The New ournal would like to thank: 
Miao 
ang 
Brian 
ayda 
Lane Rick 
Alison Frick 
Sarah Laskow 
Daniel Gusman 
ohn Swansburg 
Al Powers 
19 
1 
lJ 
! 
' '! 
l 'l .l '
H 
~ ' 
I 



--- Page 20 ---

defend his platform against an opponent. He 
adopted "Students First" as his campaign slo-
gan. When asked why, Healey shrugged his 
shoulders. "Michael Montano (TD' 03) [a 
DeStefano campaign staffer] suggested it. He 
knew that's what I'd be criticized for." 


Kruger and Healey's first public con-
frontation was a debate organized by the Yale 
College Democrats in early September. 
Kruger thought Healey didn't take the event 
seriously. "It was pretty clear that he felt this 
[race] was just a fun thing .... He didn't speak 
well. He would say, 'This is our city, riiight?' 
and 'We need to take ownership; riiight?' You 
know how people do that when they speak? I 
felt like it was a high school debate." But if 
Healey began his campaign lightly, he soon 
rose to Kruger's challenge. And as the cam-
paign heated up in September, both candi-
dates began raising funds in earnest. Though 
Kruger had denied Healey's suggestion that 
"Yale stuff" was all that divided their plat-
forms, the tension between the University 
and the unions largely drove the support for 
each campaign. While Kruger accepted ·con-
tributions from Sledge and administrators at 
Yale's Office of New Haven and State Affairs, 
Healey received donations from organizers of · 
the New England Health Care Workers, the 
Communication Workers of America, and 
the Connecticut Center for a New Economy. 


In the Yale Daily News, a letter by James 
Kirchick (PC' o6) denounced Healey's affilia-
tion with union leader Bobby Proto by 
declaring, ''A Vote for Healey is a Vote for 
Proto." In a second debate, this time spon-
sored by the Yale Political Uniqn, Healey did 
not apologize for his financial backers and 
pointedly remarked, "You know ~..-ho our 
friends are, and you know who we'll be work-
ing with." 


This question of whom each candidate 
would work with once in office buzzed 
around the race like an aggressive mosquito. 
Master Sledge, observing how this election 
differed from those in the past, commented, 
"What's struck me 
and I don't feel like I 
fully understand this 
is that we're preoccu-
pied now with the power arrangements 
around the candidates, rather than the candi-
dates themselves." But it is no wonder that 
people with a long term investment in New 
Haven politics, like union organizers and 
Sledge himself, were concerned about who 
Healey and Kruger would ally with in the 
city. With former aldermen like Morand and 
Gonzalez shaping current New Haven poli-
tics, it has become increasingly clear that the 
young politician who holds the Ward One 
20 
seat is not a mere passerby. 


It seems a single alderman's 
term can launch a J.J.'-' .J.J<,J.JLUJ<. 
politician to the upper tiers 
of city power. 


tlOflS 
UT 
TO 
WHATEVE 
extent these political. 
and future connec-
dominated the cam- · 
paign hype, power arrange-
ments could not 
the outcome of this · race. 
After all, the unions could-
n't elect Healey. Any elec-
tion hinges upon how well the candidates are 
able to reach out to their voters. In Ward 
One, where the constituent base is largely 
transient and historically indifferent, this can 
pose a peculiar challenge. Healey and Kruger 
not only had to court student voters, they also 
· had to convince them that New Haven poli-
tics matter in the first place. Many Yale 
undergraduates, passing through in only four 
years, feel that city issues do not affect them, 
and prefer to register in their hometowns. & 
Kruger has noted, "In the past I think that 
local politics in Ward One have been-viewed 
as something that is only in the interest of a 
few people who tend to see themselves as 
involved in this city, and therefore not as 
something the average person in Ward One 
should really be affected by or take part in, 
and I think that that's a misconception." Part 
of Kruger's mission, therefore, was "to change 
the political arena and broaden it," that is, to 
appeal to the silent majority ofYale students, 
and to reach out to students who might have 
been jarred out of their apathy by the sound 
of strikers banging pots at eight in the morn-
• mg. 


Kruger tried to engage the "average per-
son in Ward One" by canvassing all the col-
leges in the district. He went door to door 
introducing himself to his peers. First there 
th "Hi'" "H 
th 
I" 
"H 
, 
was 
e 
. 
ey 
ere. or 
ey man, 
then, "My name is Dan Kruger and I'm run-
ning for Ward One Alderman. You're on the 
magic list of people registered to vote in Ward 
One, did you know that?" or some similar 
variation. Some students seemed interested, 
some didn't, some were out, and others were 
napping. Kruger tried to pique student inter-
est by attending Residential College Council 
meetings, an approach which won him little 
support. At these meetings, where discussions 
usually revolve around a field trip or the next 
dance, "I got almost no reaction," he recalled, 
"It was like I was a piece of the woodwork." 


Seeking a better way to present his plat-
form, members of Kruger's campaign orga-
nized a Master's Tea in Ezra Stiles College. 
This time he did get a reaction, though per-
haps not the one he anticipated. Armed only 
with a cookie and a cup of tea, Kruger found 
himself facing . a wall of students in green 
"Vote Ben!" t-shirts. He responded jovially 
enough. "I want to leave the majority of time 
for any of you guys to question me, to grill 
me, to use it as a sort of inquisition," he told 
the students. "This chair is sort of a rack ... 
you can turn me around and torture me any 
way you want." Indeed, they did just that. & 
the tea dragged on, Kruger's ears grew red in 
spite of his apparent good humor. 


As the race continued, Kruger's cam-
paign tactics demonstrated a profound 
naivete regarding the dynamics of this elec-
tion. When Master Sledge invited him to 
hold a reception in his home on October 27, 
Kruger accepted, sparking a fiasco that pro-
vided his opponents with ample material to 
label him "a tool of the administration." 
Sledge emailed his college an invitation to the 
reception, which uhleashed a volley of explo-
sive responses. Calhoun freshman Marissa 
Levendis sent a fiery email to Sledge and 
copied the email to all of Calhoun. 
Her 
words were scathing: "You, as the Master of 
Calhoun College, have the duty to not abuse 
the power you have over the Calhoun student 
body. Quite honestly, your contifl.l!al, con-
centrated support of Dan Kruger seriously 
makes me uncomfortable and makes me feel 
that you are seeking to pressure me, from 
your position of authority over me, to think a 
certain way about politics." Levendis was not 
the only one concerned by the master's 
endorsement. 
Political Science lecturer 


--- Page 21 ---

Cynthia Horan criticized Sledge's public sup-
port of Kruger in a letter to the Yale Daily 
News entitled, "What is the Role of a College 
Master?" After learning of these objections, 
THE NEw JouRNAL 


Kruger offered to cancel the reception. "If I 
were the Master. of Calhoun College, I'm not 
sure what I would have done," he explained. 
However, when Sledge decided to proceed, 
Kruger followed suit. "It's not my role to 
decide what the Master should and shouldn't 
do." But given his self-described role as the 
race's independent voice one might have 
asked, why not? 


The evening of October 2 7 was cold and 
rainy. And while Kruger was attempting to 
engage students under Master Sledge's roof, 
Healey traipsed across campus from one stu-
dent meeting to another. He set out from 
Dwight Hall at 6:30 PM, using one of his 
campaign posters as an umbrella as he navi-
gated his way through the streets. His first 
stop was La Casa, the Hispanic cultural 
house. There was a black-out, and a dozen 
students sat in the living room, discussing the 
business of the evening while they waited for 
the lights to come back on. Careful not to 
interrupt, Healey pulled up a chair and 
leaned in, listening to their conversation in 
the dark. When it was his turn to speak, he 
introduced himself "To the people I don't 
know, hi, I'm Ben." After chatting for a few 
minutes, he passed around a volunteer sheet, 
thanked the group for having him and head-
ed back into the rain. His next visit was the 
AFL-CIO meeting back at Dwight Hall, then 
out again through the puddles to the Yale 
College Democrats meeting in Branford 
College. Later that week at La Casa, he went 
on to address the pivotal issue of Yale's rela-
tionship to the city. "I think that New Haven 
has a set of issues that we need to confront 
internally, and they deal with the power rela-
tions in the city ... [with] how an eleven bil-
lion dollar institution that is the biggest 
socio-economic engine in the city relates to 
the rest of the town. We all recognize that 
Yale is not going to solve the problems of 
New Haven, right?" 


Healey speaks in :1 
mild voice and calls con-
. tuents, labor organizers, 
no politicians "folks." He 
talks to students about the 
he's done as alder-
man and the work "we're 
doing together." While 
Kruger sought to bring 
.... average Yale student to 
pen 
forums, 
Healey 
courted groups 
already 
thought 
He wanted to 
them their broader 
ideals could be realized through city politics, 
and they did not need to rely on the 
University to effect change. After the meeting 
with the Yale Democrats on that rainy 
Monday evening, Healey headed back into 
the night, canvassing door to door, trying to 
engage students in the issues he cared about 
and was convinced they cared about, too. 


On the Saturday before the election, 
Healey sat in the Branford College court-
yard, attempting to concentrate on home-
work. It was a perfect New England after-
noon, sunny and crisp, with deep yellow 
leaves crunching under the feet of students 
walking by. The quadrangle is the pride of the 
Yale Admissions office. After the tour guide 
tells you that New Haven really isn't that dan-
gerous, she'll lead you into Branford. From 
inside, it is impossible to see any part of the 
outside world but the sky, and reality dis-
solves in a careful arrangement of gothic 
spires·. Healey had been trying to attend to his 
school work, but his Normative Ethics book 
sat uncracked on the bench beside him. "I 
know that there's a certain percentage ofYale 
students who are not going to want to~ do 
more than concentrate on their studies, live 
their college life, and get out of here, but my 
work is to make that percentage as small as 
possible by continuing to talk to people. This 
is our life here. This is our home." He gazed 
pensively at the autumn light on Harkness 
tower. "For me, the work is engaging the folks 
because the institutional bollndary doesn't 
translate into individual boundaries. I think 
we can all transcend them." 


Two days earlier, Kruger had discussed 
election ·day as he sipped his lemonade, and 
had characteristically looked on the bright 
side. "No matter the outcome, it's a win-win 
situation in my mind because we've started a 
debate, and gotten people talking about, real-
ly talking about the issues and the approach 
to politics ... which is great and that's some-
thing I'm really excited about and I'm proud 
of . . . If Ben is re-elected, I think that he will 
be a better alderman by my rubric, if you like, 
than he ·was before." 


These words, recalled after the election, 
make Kruger's loss less disheartening. He 
pushed Healey to think about his con-
stituents and reevaluate their bond with the 
city. He pushed Healey to redefine the Ward 
One seat as the link between his peers and 
what had become his home. And he pushed 
students finally to think about the course of 
New Haven's future. 


LECTION DAY WAS DANK and cold. 
Healey arrived on Old Campus at six 
in the morning, and held his ground 
resolutely until the polls closed at eight at 
night. Kruger shivered right alongside him, 
stopping passersby with a cheerful, "Hey 
there, have you voted yet?" When students 
packed into Dwight Hall to hear the results, 
Kruger was absent. "He had to go back to 
his apartment to let someone in," his cam-
paign manager explained. 


For most Yale students, as Kruger dis-
covered, the fate of New Haven remains a 
future largely unrelated to their owri. 
However, this race demonstrated the increas-
ing number of students who are invested in 
the city, and its outcome determined the 
way they hope to change it. In the last days 
of his campaign, Healey had told a group of 
students, "I think that we, as Yale students, 
tend to honor our University and look there 
for problem-solving because we don't know 
how to charter the outside sources." On 
November 4, voting students chose Ben 
Healey, not Dan Kruger by a margin of 
three to one. Perhaps they chose him 
because he was the incumbent, perhaps 
because they knew him personally, perhaps 
because they liked his t-shirrs. Or, perhaps, 
presented with two visions of the relation-
ship between Yale and New Haven, they 
chose to put their faith not in their 
University, but in the city, and in their alder-
man. 


Charlotte Howard, a smior in Branford 
Colkge, is on the staff o/TNJ. 



**Title: The Lake Under Siege**
**Author: Maeve Herbert**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
•
ROM THE ROAD THAT WINDS OUT OF THE TOWN of Guilford and 
down into the valley, the lake seemed to be at peace in its bed. A 
red blanket of hemlocks and oaks had folded over the hills and 
Lake Quonnipaug lay still and flat. Past the bend in the road, in the 
center of the III -acre stretch of water, a fisherman wrapped in his over-
coat had slowed his boat to a stop and dropped anchor. As he cast his 
line and watched it sink that October morning, he might have thought 
that all was well in the waters below. 
· 
What the fisherman may have not known was that the sleepy 
waters were under siege. In the dark ledges of the lake, two weeds born 
in distant waters had wheedled their way into the soil-bed, made them-
selves at home, and slowly begun to choke the lake. No one, not the 
town residents who spend so many hours on the water, nor the expert 
researchers who investigate the spread of the invasion, knows whether 
the lake will ever return to what it once was. But they're willing to give 
it a try 
even if it means fighting a battle that may already be lost. 


HE WEEDS WERE FIRST SPOTTED over four years ago, lurking 
around the boat launch in the northern cove. It was here that 
Ben Sylvester, the long-standing secretary of the Friends of 
Quonnipaug and the man who first saw the odd-looking plant waving 
its spindly green fmgers and perking up its pearly white head. Having 
spent almost every day of the past four decades out on the lake, he 
knew something new and alien had taken root. 

Sylvester had already lost one lake to the weeds and he wasn't 
about to lose another. Back in 1963, as director of rowing at the Choate 
School, Mr. Sylvester had to tell the Wild Boars boys' team that they 
could no longer row in Community Lake in Wallingford, where they 
had practiced for almost to 50 years. The weeds had grown up to the 
surface and closed off the lake. 

Forced out by the weeds, the team moved to the boat launch in the 
north end of Lake Quonnipaug. Except for the lily-pads in the south-
channel, the lake was in pretty good shape. It was here that Sylvester, 
an experienced single sculler, coached his team to many national cham-
pionships: As a ·continuous presence on Lake Quonnipaug, he has 
come to know the ways of the lake better than most people. 

Sylvester arid other residents began to worry about their lake. They 
first saw the strange plant along the boat· cove, cropping up near the 
beach and skulking into the shallow ledges in the heart of the lake. 
Though the town had been dealing with an overgrowth of pondweed 
and lily-pads for several years, no one living by the water had ever seen 
the likes of these massive roots. 

Fearful that the strange plant might put an end to summer boat-
ing, decimate property values and take hold of the entire lake, Sylvester 
and a small group of Guilford residents began to pressure the town 
experts to do something about the invading alien species. When the 
chairman of the Milford Conservation Community called to order the 
spring meeting three years ago, the first order of business was to devise 
a plan of action for the lake. They decided to call in the experts. 

The two alien weeds identified in the lake are formally known as 
Cabomba caroliniana and Eurasian water milfoil. Each is a noxious 
. 
non-native species, and, if released in the right conditions, it has the 
potential to choke out native plants, birds, fish, and reptiles. The 
plants, popular aquarium decorations, travelled a long way before 
reaching Connecticut. Researchers believe that Eurasian milfoil may 
have slipped from a lake somewhere in Europe or North Africa onto 
the underside of a commercial freight and traveled into the Chesapeake 
Bay as early as the r88os. Cabomba probably traveled a shorter distance 
to Lake Quonnipaug 
perhaps tucked in a shipping crate from its 
native lakes in the southern United States to an aquarium store some-
where on the Atlantic seaboard, then moving to the gravelly base of a 
fish-tank in a child's room, only to be poured into a backyard creek, 
where the weed was free to run rampant. 

By the mid I990s, weed sightings by Connecticut lake managers 
and residents had become commonplace.. Seeds were hitdiing rides on 
boat motors to new lakes, and flying on the beaks of birds scanning the 
waters for food, before finding new territory and laying root to blos-
som. 

THE NEw JouRNAL 


--- Page 23 ---

By Maeve Herbert 
However the weeds entered Connecticut, the scientific communi-
ty agrees that these non-native species pose a very real threat to lake 
ecology. A report published last July by the State Council on 
Environment Quality names non-native plants and animals as the sec-
ond greatest threat to Connecticut's natural habitats after land devel-
opment. The Union of Concerned Scientists has estimated that non-
native species are responsible for at least half of the threatened species 
in this country. Weeds like Cabomba and Eurasian milfoil are particu-
larly troubling because they have the potential to wipe out entire native 
species, fostering a monoculture that would destroy the delicate balance 
of the ecosystem. 

Confronted with this growing body of evidence both national and 
state legislators have taken several initiatives to control and curb the 
spread of non-native plants. In February of 1999, President Clinton 
formed the National Invasive Species Council to investigate ways to 
halt the spread of these species, which annually cost the country 
approximately $137 billion, while aquatic needs cost $275 million. 
Earlier this year, Congress passed a landmark piece of legislation, the 
National Aquatic Invasive Species Act, which alocated $170 million for 
" 
1 
d 
h" 
prevention, contro , an researc _ . 

Many lake communities welcome these efforts, bur legislativ~ 
debates on prevention methods and the imposition of restrictions on 
the sale of non-native species are of little use to residents like Ben 
Sylvester whose lakes have already been invaded by Cabomba and mil-
foil. For them, the overgrowth of weeds could transform their beloved 
lake to a murky marsh. The loss would be more than sentimental: 
. . 
Studies have shown that non-native weed overgrowth can lead to a 
drop of ro percent or more in land valu~. 

So while legislators and conservationists gather in closed rooms to 
. discuss various proposals for prevention, town residents have taken 
their own initiative. They want the weeds gone for good, but they are 
slowly discovering that weeds may be fiercer than suspected. 

NoVEMBER 2003 

RESIDENTS PHONED THE CoNNECTICUT Agricultural 
Experimental Station (cAEs) three years ago, there was no 
aquatic weed expert around to pick up. The scientists at 
CAES, a brick building pocketed-in New Haven's tree-lined Hutchinson 
· Street, were busy with other tasks: chasing an Asian beetle that was 
rapidly consuming New England's hemlocks, and researching the 
spread and containment of West Nile Disease. Given that non-native 
weeds had only recently begun appearing in Connecticut lakes, there 
did nor yet seem to be a need for an aquatic weed specialist. 

When Greg Bugbee, an expert responsible for the station's soil test-
ing laboratory, offered to look at the lake, he seemed as well equipped 
as anyone. A soil scientist with over twenty years experience at CAES, 
Bugbee had already tackled one weed problem in Bashan Lake in East 
Hamden, Connecticut the year before. Having grown up on lakes and 
studied their beds, Bugbee knew them to be a realm of ecological sci-
ence where there- were more questions than answers. 

After an initial survey of Quonnipaug Lake, Bugbee discovered 
that the lake's vegetation had undergone some very rapid changes, 
which was highly unusual considering the typically static nature of lake 
water chemistry. The CAES study confumed that extensive areas of 
Eurasian milfoil and Cabomba had cropped up in Lake Quonnipaug. 
At the time, affected areas were confined mostly to the boat launch 
cove and the beach area, but unless action was taken, these weeds could 
soon t~e over the whole lake. 

With the residents demanding action, and published evidence 
backing the residents' demands, the GCC realized it needed to find a 
solution quickly. In early summer of 2001, Guilford took its first stab 
at removing the weeds no other town in Connecticut had beaten. 
The town agreed to fund a team from CAES to investigate the effec-
tiveness of treating the non-native weeds with spot applications of her-
bicide. At the very least, the project would allow Bugbee to observe the 
weeds' response to herbicide. With any luck, the projectwould destroy 
the plants for good, preserving the lake's biodiversity and pacifying the 
rowers, fishermen, and home-owners. 


--- Page 24 ---

The process of weed hunting quickly 
turned into a game of hide-and-go-seek. 
Over the following two summers, in accor-
dance with the research plan, a powerboat 
equipped with a spray can of granular fluri-
odone set out to test the toughness of 
Cabomba · and Eurasian milfoil. When the 
weeds were blasted with up to 150 pounds of 
herbicide per acre, they didn't last long. 
Within a matter of weeks, the green foliage 
had turned brown and limp. The shriveled 
remains floated to the_ surface, and no plants 
from the boat area alone were hauled away in 
trucks. 

In the weeks following the treatment, it 
looked as if the combination of herbicide and 
machinery had succeeded. Follow-up surveys 
after the treatments in 2002 confirmed that 
almost every last stem of Cabomba and 
Eurasian milfoil had died 
the boat launch 
cove and the beach were finally clear. When · 
the Commission convened last January, the 
final reports came in: residents were pleased 
with the hydro-raking. With a little bit of 
spray, a week of heavy mowing, and a lot of 
pressure from homeowners, the lake had been 
restored 
or so they thought. 

But the home-owners weren't 
completely satisfied. In the spring of 
2002, after the initial herbicide treat-
ments in the north, 369 Guilford res-
idents signed a petition demanding 
that the town clear out the lake's 
south end, where native lily-pads had 
clogged up the channel for years. 
Realizing the mobilized force of resi-
dents expected action, when the 
Commission gathered again for its 
regular town meeting in March, the 
Chairman proposed a last resort tech-
nique that had not yet been dis-
cussed: hydro-raking . . 
. The hydro-raking process is akin 
to lawn-mowing for lakes, and is · a 
fairly common method of weed con-
trol. In the past hydro-raking has 
proven to be a useful, if pricey, strate-
gy for removing vegetation. The lake 
residents and the GCC hoped that the 
machines would remove the last of 
the submerged vegetation, floating 
· debris, and clumps of soil. Acco1·ding to 
Aquatic Control Technologies, . the private 
hydro-raking 
company 
from 
Sutton, 
Massachusetts that agreed to take on the job, 
the mowing would pose little or no perma-
nent threat to the lake's sediment and soil 
structure, and the hefty fee they demanded 
would be worth the results. 

Even 
though 
the 
Connecticut 
Department of Environmental Protection 
had expressed concerns that the raking might 
cause more harm than good, the township 
pressed on. In October of 2002, a heavy-set 
man 
in 
a 
plaid shirt 
arrived 
. Massachusetts, switched on an enormous 
machine armed with giant teeth and a pow-
erful engine, and set to work. For one week, 
the rake dug deep into the lake-bed. A pro-
cession of dump trucks loaded with lake sed-
iment and vegetation wove its way to the 
town compost. 

RUISING PAST THE SOLE FISHERMAN 
out on the water on that day of 
October, Greg Bugbee adjusted his 
reflective sunglasses and headed straight for 
the south end. Bugbee had not been to the 
lake for over a. month, and this excursion 
might be his last chance this season to inves-
tigate the area. It had been a year since the 
hydro-rakers departed, but even before he 
reached the lake's southern tip, Bugbee knew 
that the weeds would still be there waiting for 
him. 

Sure enough, when Bugbee eased off the 
throttle and the boat entered the south chan-
nel, he saw that the seemingly peaceful lake 
was growing sick again. Entire patches of the 
lake bed-dark and deadened soil never 
intended to see the light of day 
had made 
their way up to the surface, forming islands. 
Scattered between these clumps of alien land, 
thick lily-pad roots torn from the sediment 
arced out of the water. 

As the boat slowed, Bugbee tipped up his 
Guilford baseball-cap, and leaned over the 
whalings to have a closer look. He peered 
through the aqua scope, a tube used for 
underwater observation. As bubbles ran 
under the circle of glass, a brilliant green ten-
dril waving in the current came into focus: 
Cabomba. The weed had slipped from the 
northern to the southern side without anyone 
noticing, and was now slowly weaving a thick 
green carpet across the entire channel. 

The weed had slipped from the 
northern to the southern side 
without anyone noticing and was 
now slowly weaving _a thick green 
carpet across the entire channel. 

Putting away the aqua scope, Bugbee 
stood and returned to the wheel. He did 
not look pleased. As he maneuvered the 
boat through the placid southern chan-
nel, Bugbee knew that the culprit respon-
sible for the murky islands and the 
uprooted mess of lilies were not the hated 
alien weed. This time around, the 
machines seemed the. root of the prob-
lem. When the heavy metal teeth gnawed 
up the lily pads last October, they dis-
lodged the soil bed, and in the wrecked, 
open space, Cabomba had dosed in. In 
fact, the blade spinning behind the 
machine may even have spit out 
Cabomba seed fragments leftover from 
other lake jobs. 

"It just dug up the whole bottom," 
Bugbee explained, nodding at the section 
of the lake that now resembled a marsh. 
Bugbee had supporters: both the town 
commissioners and the Friends of 
Quonnipaug recognized their blunder. 
As the chairman of the Gee William 
Johnson explained, "By disturbing the 
site we actually created conditions for inva-
sives to come in where they were not present 
before." Even Sylvester, who's still hoping he 
will have more luck with this lake than his last 
one, agrees the fight against weeds may have 
led to more problems than answers. 

EGATIVE SIDE-EFFECTS like those in 
the southern channel have prompt-
ed some environmentalists.to won-
der if it might be better to let the weeds run 
wild. According to Chuck Lee at the 
Connecticut DEP, there is always a chance 
that Mother Nature will sort things out at her 
own pace. Not only do mechanical control 
options like hydro-raking have the potential 
to destroy local habitats and even advance the 
spread of non-native species by transporting 
seed fragmentS from lake to lake, but herbici-
dal methods, if not properly administered, 

THE NEw JoURNAL 



**The Lake's Mystery**
**Author: Maeve Herbett**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
may actually kill off the native and threatened 
species. 

Last spring, the Connecticut DEPrefused 
to grant the town permission to use the her-
bicide in the lake, arguing that a certain 
threatened species in Lake Quonnipaug, the 
water marigold, might suffer the same fate as 
the Cabomba and Eurasian milfoil. Currently, 
the Gee is negotiating with the DEP to secure 
permission to apply a limited amount of her-
bicide to targeted areas without endangering 
the rest of the lake. 

Even Bugbee wonders if it might not be 
. 
better just to let the lakes be. Leaving the 
southern channel that morning, Bugbee turns 
to look at the lake he has known for so many 
years. He muses aloud that he would not 
mind leaving it be. Bugbee is, however, con-
cerned about preserving the lake's biodiversi-
ty and protecting the local species, and is 
working in conjunction with the town to 
develop alternative ways of slowing the 
growth of the dreadful Cabomba. In his opin-
ion, it all boils down to a combination of sci-
ence and politics. Bugbee is currently helping 
to launch a comprehensive study of the 
effects of herbicides on aquatic weeds for the 
state, set to begin sometime next year. 

In the meantime, the best course of 
action for dealing with Lake Quonnipaug 
remains a mystery. In a world where land val-
ues are determined by aesthetics, and where 
people cling to the memories of past after-
noons on a pristine lake, it does not seem 
likely that the town will be willing to turn its 
lake over to the weeds 

Before Bugbee returned to the GAEC to ~ _ 
write his report, he dropped anchor in the 
heart of the lake. Stooping like a doctor over 
an aging body, he recorded the lake's temper-
ature and measured its oxygen levels. As he 
revved the engine and coasted back toward 
the boat launch, he pointed to where con-
struction workers were building a large win-
dow-filled house on the bank. 

A year earlier, the owner of the house-to-
be had called Bugbee to ask if there were 
weeds in the lake. He wasn't going to buy 
land and build if his investment would swift-
ly lose its value. And Bugbee told him what 
he knew, that they were working to keep the 
weeds under control. At this point though, 
only time can tell if the view out the house's 
new windows will be the one the owner want-
ed. 


**Yale's Portraits: A History of Neglect and Ridicule**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

NOVEMBER 1965, Branford College 
accepted a donation of four paintings by 
French contemporary artist, Max Papart, 
valued between four and seven thousand dol-
lars each. While the donor had given the 
paintings to Branford College in order for 
students to experience contemporary art "in 
an everyday environment, instead of a muse-
um," most students ignored them. At Yale, 
we have grown used to eating our apple tofu 
crisp in ·the company of dark portraits of 
white men in suits. We dine in the midst of 
what the curators jokingly refer to as the "Yale 
Worthies," 
men 
with 
names 
like 
Fayerweather, Gaylord, Billings, Jessup, 
Luquiens, and Eleazar. And we don't give 
them a second glance. 

These formal portraits, though often 
ignored, are occasionally the targets of food 
fights and practical jokes. The archaic, osten-
tatious paintings of authority figures preside 
over dining halls, where generations of 
stressed-out students have been armed with a 
limitless supply of oily food and a little too 
much time. On Saturday, February 10, 1973, 
Yale Poli~e conducting a routine check of 
Commons noticed an abnormally bright, rec-
tangular spot on one wall. A painting was 
missing. The thieves weren't very careful, as 
the frame and back were circled by an array of 
sneaker marks beneath the space where the 
portrait had hung. Even so, the painting was 
never recovered. Occasionally, students add 
their own art instead of stealing it. In 1982, a 
portrait of Solomon Porter was removed 
because the "cheeks, ears, and lips of the sub-
ject appeared to have been defaced with a felt 
tip pen." Paintings are regularly caught in the 
line of fire in food fights. A Calhoun Dining 
Hall master's portrait was permanently dam-
aged when a meatball smashed neatly through 
the subject's face. When a roof leak damaged 
three portraits in Commons, the conservator 
couldn't bear to handle them, writing in his 
report that the works were "[too] disgusting 
to touch 
they had food, grease, and heaven 
knows what else on them." But Solomon 
Porter, the Calhoun Master with a taste for 
meatballs, 
and the three soggy "Yale 
Worthies" were not thrown away: They were 
kept cloistered in a basement gallery known 
simply as "Bs7." It is a graveyard for paintings 
laid to rest alongside their fallen comrades 
and stained with deep gummy oils, darkened 
with the weather of years of thumb prints or 
ripped neatly by massive food fights. Here, in 
BS7, aged masters look out dumbly from 
behind masks of hateful red paint with fork-
pierced eyes, as congealed drips of crimson 
berry pie m n down their faces like tears. 

Why should Yale spend the money to 
conserve these soiled paintings, or even keep 
them at all? Why should anyone care? As any 
snooty art major will tell you over Sunday 
brunch, these portraits are not even well-exe-
cuted. Some of them are horrific, painted in a 
style that would amuse any six-year-old. Rosy 
cherubic faces are squashed against sea-foam 
green backdrops and their shoddy canvases 
are bordered in gilt frames so ridiculous they 
seem like relics from a baroque opera. The 
paintings' subjects are just as dull: Men sit 
uncomfortably in haunted, dark worlds, their 
hands folded neatly in their laps, their white 
collars starched crisply, their handsome 
Windsor knots choking them at the throat. 

But the portraits, if not artistically interest-
ing, are at least historically important, argues 
Jennifer Bossman, the Yale University Art 
Registrar whose job includes keeping an 
inventory of these works and their decaying 
conditions. "Portraiture at Yale is an ongoing 
tradition," she explains. "The first piece of art 
the Yale Art Galleries acquired was a portrait 
of King George, and paintings of historical 
figures are at the core of the gallery's collec-
tion." Bossman adds that she considers his-
torical context when deciding where to hang 
newly restored portrait. She tries to shift por-
traits to appropriate locations 
for example, 
hanging a recently acquired portrait of John 
C. Calhoun in the Calhoun dining hall, or 
replacing a crumbling portrait of William 
Law Learned with a large and inelegant 
painting .of George H. W. 
Bush in 
Commons. Bossman and other workers in 
the art registrar's office have tried to assemble 
a sort of pictorial history 
checkering Yale's 
walls with historically important portraits, as 
if eating beneath these exonerated figures will 
give students the knowledge held by the wise 
figures of their University's past. 

Bur two dining hall paintings have sepa-
rated themselve.S from their peers. These are 
the portraits toward which groups of bored 
students, sleep-deprived and short on conver-
sation, can always turn for inspiration. 
Students love to hate the modern portrait of 
current Master Steven Smith hung just to the 
left of the Branford Dining Hall's huge fire-
place, and the surreal portrait of Master Stout 
hung in the center of the wall opposite the 
.Berkeley dining hall entrance. 

Master Smith stares at us from a dull, 
dingy office, his torso curving in and out of 
the painting like a slippery fish. Behind him, 
a snowy Yale courtyard glows in the watery 
sunlight, the bare branches of dark trees 
wavering as if seen through an aquarium. 
The portrait, commissioned by the class of 
1997 
the first graduating class over which 
the master presided 
is unlike any other 
portrait at Yale in that it was commissioned 
as a surprise for its subject. The class of 1997 
asked their classmate, James Prosek, to paint 
the portrait from a photograph of the master. 
As a graduating senior, Prosek was well 
known for his paintings of trout. He had just. 
completed a best-selling book of watercolors, 
"Trout: An Illustrated History," and his 
classmates didn't think it would be a prob-
lem that he had never before painted a 
human. "This perhaps explains the slightly 
'fishy' look of the portrait," Master Smith 
explains. Though his portrait is admittedly 
wacky 
Master Smith's glasses rest lopsided 
below his oversized forehead, his necktie is 
painted in a fierce cadmium yellow with the 
face of an unknown woman smudged in its 
lower half-
it. is successful, not as a portrait, 
but as a caricature. It captures Smith's like-
ness, conveying his quirky, constant energy 
through pulsing loopy brushstrokes. Smith 
appears gaunt and squirmy, as if painted by 
Egon Schiele, if Schiele had used Lucian 
Freud's somber palette. Despite its bleak 
color choices, Smith seems happy and 
untroubled. He doesn't look foreboding or 
snooty, despite his high perch and isolation 
from the audience behind a broad wooden 
desk. Indeed, the portrait's success rests in its 
lack of pretension. 

Smith's tie is loose, his jacket unbut-
toned, his shirt wrinkled . . The room sur-
rounding him is not ostentatious or even ele-
gant, but simple and modern. It does not dis-
tract from its subject. Granted, the actual 
painting isn't very well done. It feels muddy, 
the reflection floats like a mirage in the desk, 
the subject is backlit and the lighting doesn't 
work. In addition, the composition is child-
ishly symmetrical and the local color of the 
white shirt reflects poorly against the snow in 
the background. But at least this paint.ing 
does not pretend to be something else. It is 
different than the "Yale Worthies" crowding 
the room 
men like Charles William 
Harkness and Joshua Huntington, William 
Maxwell Evans and George Lincoln 
Hendrickson 
distinguished men with indis-
tinguishable portraits. 

And then there is the infamous "Skip in 
Space," a portrait of Master Harry "Skip" 
Stout, so nicknamed by those who frequent 
the Berkeley dining hall. The portrait, in all 
its strangeness, is the subject of constant 
ridicule. When current master John Rogers 
sent out an email asking students if they 
would be willing to contribute a portion of 
the college's funds toward a frozen . yogurt · 
machine, one student replied asking where 
the master's priorities were: "We shouldn't be 
concentrating our money on ice cream when 
we could be allocating funds to build a force 
field to protect us from the flying Berkeley 
shields headed straight for our heads!" But 
the portrait of Master Stout, painted by 
Berkeley Associate Fellow R. Beggs, is no 
laughing matter. 

During his first year as Master, 
Stout approached Beggs on a visit to the 
painter and filmmaker's San Francisco home. 
Beggs took over fifty photos of Master Stout, 
who was too busy to sit for him, and also 
"took pictures of all the preceding portraits to 
remind [him] of what [he] wasn't. interested 
in doing." Committed not only to capturing 
his "likeness" and his authority, Beggs 
attempted to convey Stout's spirit on the can-
vas. "While hardly conscious, I made a series 
of decisions about what the portrait would 
be," explains Beggs. "[Stout] was a friend and 
a bearer of tradition. There is an irreverence 
about him but also a dignity and seriousness 
of purpose. The idea of Berkeley as an insti-
tution and Harry embodying that institution 
and at. the same time passing through, transi-
tory, like all the previous masters, was an 
underlying idea. The relaxed figure, open col-
lar, and the darting College ~ms are manifes-
tations of those ideas, at. the time felt, not. 
acknowledged. Hindsight is great. n 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Painted in a style reminiscent of neo-expressionists like Eric Fischl and David Park, 
Master Stout smiles, basking in the reflected 
haze of a far-off fluorescent light, Berkeley 
shields flying like icy bullets toward his smil-
ing maw. The work's composition is more 
interesting than those of its classical com-
rades. The subject is pushed to the left edge of 
the rectangle, and the shields lead our sight 
from the right corner back to the left. While 
it seems like the master is floating in space, 
this hazy dark background is almost more 
natural than the phony constructed atmos-
phere of a traditional office. Stout's casual 
attire 
open shirt, and rumpled suit 
feels 
more realistic than the robes donned by his 
colleagues. This portrait is certainly different 
from those surrounding it. But Beggs is still 
not entirely satisfied: "Certain things could 
have been pushed more. It's a hard call. 
Whose happiness and satisfaction is at stake?" 
Ultimately, a painting's success can be 
measured by the opinions of the students 
who view it daily. So mock these two portraits 
all you want. Admittedly they are not that 
good, but they are not as bad as one might 
think. Portraits like those of Stout and Smith 
are successful because they are interesting, 
because they are different, and because their 
painters had the courage to embrace change 
instead of pushing for the traditional and out-
moded. These paintings are less authoritative, 
less strict, and less archaic. They are less like-
ly to be vandalized with red pens, because 
they already seem to mock themselves. They 
are less likely to end up in basement storage 
rooms, a meatball shot through one eye. And 
you can be sure of one thing: If they are 
stolen, everyone will notice. 


Adriane Quinlan, a freshman in Calhoun 
College, is on the staff o/TNJ. 


**Title: TYCO**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
TYCO offers a variety of pri·nting, copying 
and finishing related services, too numerous 
to list.. If you don't see it, 
. and our . . 
friendly and professional staff will be happy 
to assist you! 

Binding 
· 
Xeroxing 
Business Cards · 
• 
Color Coples Canon • Xerox 
· . e Format Color Copies 
Cassette Copying 
35mm Slides 
Atznouncements 
·Digital Output 
Desktop Publishing 
Digital Output 
v 
. 
raxJng 
Graplf:ic Design 
Highlight Color Copying 
g 
Ba1zners 
Dissertations 
Enlargements 
Envelopes 
Flyers 
Fornzs · 
lnvitatio1zs 
ls 
. Document Copying 
· ailing Service 
. 0 . 
erh 
Carbonless Forms 
. ·. et Printing · 
Programs 
Passport Photos 
Reductions 
Resume Service 
~ 
Reports 
Rubber Stamps 
Tickets 
Scanning 
Specialty Printing 
Service You Can Count On. 
Service You Can Trust. 
262 Elm · treet • 
ew Haven. CT 203-562-9723 • fax: 203-562-6256 • www.tycocopy.com


**Title: Yale University Strengthens Neighborhoods; Yale University Supports Downtown; Yale University Enriches Public School Education; Yale University Supports Government and Promotes Economic Development**
**Page number(s): 32**

Yale has contributed to 1,000 units of affordable hous-
ing and home ownership in New Haven neighborhoods 
through the Yale Homebuyer program and through sup-
port for community development corporations. Yale 
University provides more than 11,000 good jobs in New 
Haven with strong job security, good wages, and excel-
lent benefits including free medical cate, the homebuyer 
progra •n, college scholarships for employee children, and 
up to 52 paid days off for vacation, holidays, sick leave, 
and personal time. 

Yale is a major sponsor of the International Festival of 
Arts and Ideas, Shubert Theater, Market New Haven, 
and Town Green Special Services District. 


The annual International 
Festival of Arts and Ideas in 
New Haven supported by 
Yale University brings tens 
of thousands of New 
Haveners together on the 
Green. 


More than 1'0,000 New Haven young people participate 
in Yale-sponsored academic and athletic programs on the 
Yale catnpus every year. 


Since 1990, Yale has paid more than $20 million in vol-
1 
untary contributions directly to the City government . 
Full property taxes paid on its community investments 
make Yale University the city's single largest real estate 
taxpayer. 


Yale Students have tutored more than soo Timothy 
Dwight Elementary School Students including those 
pictured here. This new addition to the school was 
designed by volunteers from the Yale School of 
Architecture . 


The renovation by the 
Hill Development 
Corporation of this previ-
ously blighted building is 
one of many neighbor-
hood projects Yale has 
supported. 

Yale University: Contributing to a Strong New Haven 
www.yale.edu 

