Publication date: September 2008
Volume: 41
Issue number: 1


**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Lauren Harrison
- Editor-in-Chief: Nicole Allan
- Managing Editors: Mitch Reich, Laura Zax
- Designer: Alice Buttrick
- Senior Editors: Nick Handler, Jordan Jacks
- Production Manager: Ben Lasman
- Photo Editors: Tess Dearing, Miranda Popkey
- Yale Editors: Ali Seitz, Mai Wang
- Associate Editors: Laura Bennett, Amy Fish, Sarah Nutman, Kate Selker
- Research Director: Laura Yao
- Copy Editor: Alexandra Schwartz
- Members and Directors: Joshua Civin, Peter B. Cooper, Tom Griggs, Roger Cohn, Brooks Kelley, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, David Slifka, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong, John Swansburg
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Emily Bazelon, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O'Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Usa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsm~, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- PRISONER's DILEMMA - Nick Handler
- MISSION IMPROBABLE - Pria Anand
- RENOVATION VACATION - Mitch Reich
- MAGNAC TER - Kate Selker
- POINTS OF DEPARTURE
- PROFILE - Prince of the Elmhurst - Rachel Engler
- PERSONAL ESSAY - A Whole Latte Love - Aditi Ramakrishnan
- THE CRITICAL ANGLE - Scene and Not Heard - Laura Zax
- ENDNOTE - We Salute You, JE Students - Staff


**Title: PRISONER's DILEMMA**
**Author: Nick Handler**
**Page number(s): 11**
Statehouse politics lead New Haven to forge its own solution to prisoner re-entry.


**Title: MISSION IMPROBABLE**
**Author: Pria Anand**
**Page number(s): 16**
For young Mormons who choose to spread their faith at home and abroad, college can wait.


**Title: RENOVATION VACATION**
**Author: Mitch Reich**
**Page number(s): 7**
Contractors recount JE's construction woes.


**Title: MAGNAC TER**
**Author: Kate Selker**
**Page number(s): 23**
A New Haven charter school treads uncommon ground.


**Title: PROFILE**
**Author: Rachel Engler**
**Page number(s): 9**
Prince of the Elmhurst


**Title: PERSONAL ESSAY**
**Author: Aditi Ramakrishnan**
**Page number(s): 26**
A Whole Latte Love


**Title: THE CRITICAL ANGLE**
**Author: Laura Zax**
**Page number(s): 28**
Scene and Not Heard


**Title: ENDNOTE**
**Author: Staff**
**Page number(s): 30**
We Salute You, JE Students


**Title: UPPER CRUST**
**Author: Nicole Allan**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
UPPER CRUST 
"Big Pete and Little Pete are big pizza-eaters," says Alicia Mehr, Big Pete's daughter 
and Little Pete's mother. Raising Alicia in 
Cheshire, Connecticut, Big Pete inculcated her in the ways of pizza. The family eschewed New Haven's holy trinity Pepe's, 
Sally's, and Modern 
for anonymous suburban 
joints. "There's an awful lot of really 
good pizza other than those tourist trap 
places," Alicia confides. 

Whenever she visits Connecticut from 
Washington, D.C., where she's planted 
her own family, she eats at Grande Apizza, 
a nondescript restaurant on a strip of East 
Haven highway. And after she and her husband, Joel, tasted nearly every pie on 
the Eastern seaboard in preparation for the 
launch of their own pizza restaurant last 
April, they settled on Grande's as a model. 
Joel trained in the Grande's kitchen to perfect the crispy, blackened crust that sets 
"New Haven-style" pizza apart from New 
York-style, 
Naples-style, 
Chicago-style, 
and every other entry in the serious pizza-
eater's index. "In New York," Joel says, "the 
dough has usually some olive oil in it, possibly a little honey or sugar. In Naples, the 
dough has egg in it. We're just flour, water, 
salt, and yeast." 

When settling on a location, the couple 
looked no farther than a Metro stop away 
from Petworth, their own D.C. neighborhood. Joel grew up in a nearby suburb, but 
he imagined his long yearned-for "pizza-
concept" restaurant not on the leafy avenues of Friendship Heights or the baby-
strollered sidewalks of Bethesda, but in the 
bizarre mish-mash of drug deals, dive bars, 
and superstores that is the "transitioning 
neighborhood" of Columbia Heights. 

Bordering Howard University and the 
frat-infused bar scene of the Adams Morgan neighborhood, Columbia Heights still 
bears the scars of the 1968 riots that ravaged Washington, D.C. after Martin Luther King, Jr.'s assassination. Ten years ago, 
the area was notorious for barbed wire, vacant lots, and crime. While crime is still 
a problem 
though it is decreasing 
the 
barbed wire and lots are being torn down 
and snatched up by developers. In 1999, 
after the city built a Metro stop on 14th and 
Irving, two of the neighborhood's main 
thoroughfares, the stars aligned for the "urban renewal" of Columbia Heights. Flanking the heavily trafficked Metro stop today 
are a spanking new Target and Best Buy, 
a sparkling Washington Sports Club, and, 
wedged between Potbelly and Five Guys, 
two of D.C.'s largest fast food chains, a 
. 
Peroni-umbrella adorned restaurant called 
Pete's New Haven Style Apizza. 

On a Wednesday evening in July, carefully scruffy men in straw fedoras lounged under the umbrellas with local microbrews 
while two young families shared pizzas at a 
long, blond wood table inside. An Adidas-
attired man awaited a take-out pizza after 
· a work-out across the street, and a solo patron drank wine with her pizza while reading a novel at the polished counter. Weaving 
throughout them all was an ancient Italianate man with a smoothly folded face 
and one gold tooth, wiping down tables 
and clearing plates, a silent fixture of old 
world charm. 

And somewhere between old and new 
would Pete's Apizza (pronounced, Joel insists, "ah-BEETS") like to be. Despite its 
New Haven moniker, the restaurant grasps 
at an Italian sensibility. Photos of Venetian 
canals, medieval stone alleyways, and sun-
soaked vineyards beam down at diners; a 
framed Italian newspaper hangs near the 
bathroom; and a clock ticks off what suspiciously appears to be Italian time. Yet 
the cement floor, imported sodas, and eco-
conscience (a sign in the ladies' room reads: 
"The hand dryer is a bit of a drag ... but we 
use way less paper this way!") appeal to the 
young, decidedly hip patrons attracted to 
Columbia Heights' manageable rents and 
hipster cache. 

Culinarily, Alicia and Joel merge their 
Elm City loyalty with their shared Italian 
fetish. White clams adorn their "New Haven" pie, while the vegetarian bounty of 
the "Edge of the Woods" pizza references 
Whalley's ancient health food store and 
the meaty "Staven" gives a jocular nod to 
East Haven. 

The centerpiece of the menu, Pete's 
"homage to the birthplace of pizza," is 
"Sorbillo's Original." In a stunning betrayal of Pete's civic namesake, however, 
this birthplace is not New Haven but Italy. 
The Sorbillo is more calzone than pizza, a 
big slab of dough filled with ricotta and 
salumi that is as foreign to the New Haven 
pizza scene as Pete's floral centerpieces and 
eclectic wine list. 

But, according to Alicia, even the fiercest devotees of Pepe's and Sally's don't seem 
to mind. "We get a lot of people who grew 
up or went to school at Yale," she says. 
"Recent graduates, older graduates. A lot 
of people with silly attitudes like 'Oh, this 
can't be like New Haven pizza. I'll try it, 
b 
I 
' 
B 
ut I'm sure it won't compare...' But we've 
built quite a good fan base out of those really skeptical people." 

Five months after opening Pete's Apizza's 
. doors, Alicia estimates that the bulk of the 
restaurant's regular customers resides within a five to six-block radius. While this area 
includes everything from dilapidated row 
houses to futuristic condominium buildings to public housing blocks, Pete's happy 
munchers of $23.95 pizzas seem more 
aligned with Barack Obama's brand of 
arugula elitism than a government-assisted 
lifestyle might allow. As Columbia Heights 
treads the gentrification path of other iconic neighborhoods such as Brooklyn or San 
Francisco's Mission District, New Haven, 
ironically, is gaining culinary name value. 
After all, first it's a metro stop, - then 
it's a Target, but once the New Haven-
style pizzeria moves in, the yuppies have 
truly arrived. 


**Title: PIANIST ENVY**
**Author: Sarah Nutman**
**Page number(s): 5, 6**

PIANIST ENVY 
Last spring, Cafe Bottega on the Green 
blitzed the Yale campus with an arsenal of 
hand-drawn flyers beckoning students to 
pair an epic and ancient martial art with 
their Friday night martinis. Why not take 
a break from school, sit back with your 
" 
girlfriends, and enjoy a piano duel? 

While I vividly imagined menacing 
Baby Grands slashing each other's strings 
with rapiers clenched between their keys, 
or at least pianists from warring families 
duking it out with sabers and epees, I realized that the reality might be a bit tamer 
than expected, more friendly musicians' rivalry than all-out bloodbath. For starters, 
the so-called piano duel was to take place 
in a cafe with an identity crisis 
demure 
coffee shop by day, not-quite-raucous bar 
by night. What's more, the event's name, 
"Keys to the City at Cafe Bottega on the 
Green," was too cumbersome for an effective battle cry. 

Piano duels, to my initial disappointment, are relatively civil affairs and, for 
the most part, do not include a Galoisian 
fight to the death. They don't even have a 
winner. At Bottega, two pianists, decked 
in starred sunglasses and glittery pink top-
hats, switch off playing minute-long, eminently singable renditions of songs that often sound straight off a mix tape made for 
the middle school dance. The audience's 
role is not only to sing along, but also to 
toss money, strip dub-style, at the self-
September 2008 
dubbed "piano whores" in order to request 
a favorite song. Perhaps song prostitution 
lets the audience feel like they are part of 
the duel 
dropping Hamiltons just like 
Aaron Burr. 

I thought I'd arrived unfashionably early at 8:30, but the line was already out the 
door. I felt like a Very Important Person as 
the manager whisked me past the partiers 
corralled by red velvet ropes to the bar for a 
free drink, until I saw him sidle up to three 
already-tipsy women with the proposition: 
"You guys want some free shots?" 

At least the bachelorette party attendees were singing for theirs. The promise 
of dueling pianos attracted an impressive 
array of local characters, and the lure of 
free alcohol, it's fair to say, brought out the 
best in them. I somehow became a party 
to two fifty-year-old women grinding 
during "Baby Got Back," with only their 
outfits topping their performance: skin-
tight denim miniskirts, matching heels, 
and Lycra halters that might have seen a 
previous life as safari camouflage. At least 
their shoes were shielded from the stick of 
spilled alcohol by a thin layer of crushed 
peanut shells. 

On the other side of the room, a gaggle of sixty-year-olds sipping wine under 
a pinata and a balloon printed with the 
words "Over The Hill" seemed less enticed 
by the prospect of getting liquored up. 
"It's alcohol: Smile, for the love of God," a 
pianist chastised them between renditions 
of "Sweet Caroline" and a surprisingly authentic "Gin and Juice." The ladies were 
good sports, only wincing slightly as the 
crowd acted out the Divinyls' greatest hit, 
"I Touch Myself." Chowing down on their 
pizzettes and Kobe beef sliders, they murmured quietly, impervious to the duel raging on all sides. When "Great Balls of Fire" 
entered the battle zone, however, the Over 
the Hill group couldn't help but join in, 
ballroom-dancing and head-bopping with 
the best of them. 

The pianists used their powerful positions as guardians of the Keys to the City 
to forge peace between warring camps. 
Unless, of course, they had started the 
feud, pitching Sox fans against Yankees in 
a name-that-tune contest, or reminding 
a birthday girl forced onstage that "your 
friends have pimped you out to us, so, uh, 
we can do anything we want." Occasionally, they transformed into oracles dispensing opaque pop-culture prophesies. 

"Only you can prevent forest fires," one 
harangued, "or keep Brittany in rehab." 
Nor did the patrons feel a need to silence 
their opinions. "The crowd is getting slut-
tier, don't you think?" shouted one man, 
trying to look displeased as he scanned the 
women in the crowd. "Soon it will just 
be the sluts and the jacked-up beefheads." 

He had reason to fear the "jacked-up beef-
heads." 

Moments later they caused the 
night's first duel-related fatality 
a table, 
succumbing to wounds incurred during 
the "Soulja Boy" dance. 

Miraculously, I survived to see the emptying bar, still littered with peanut shells, 
as I departed from the courageous few who 
were still, as one patron put it, "immersing 
themselves in the cheesy." Like a witness 
to an execution, I imagined, I felt elated, 
exhausted, and alive. 


**Title: FRAMING OF THE SHREW**
**Author: Mai Wang**
**Page number(s): 6**

FRAMING OF THE SHREW 
On a cloudy Friday morning at the Peabody Museum of Natural History, Beatrice Babbs is feeding two giant elephant 
shrews their first meal of the day. A pair 
of brothers named Makya and Bindi, the 
shrews scamper around the leaf litter lining their glass cage as Babbs, a full-time 
assistant at the Peabody, tosses them meal-
worms. "In the morning," she explains, 
"they get the worms, and we toss them 
crickets in the afternoons." The brothers' 
diet is supplemented throughout the day 
by a metal dish of diced apples and dried 
6 
catfood sprinkled with peanut oil. Luckily, 
Babbs is not the only one responsible for 
the upkeep of these picky eaters. 

Jim Sirch also cares about elephant 
shrews. As Babbs' supervisor and the primary caretaker of Makya and Bindi, he 
coordinated the year-long loan of the endangered pair from Smithsonian's National 
Zoo in Washington, D.C. Makya and 
Bindi star in "Travels in the Tree of Life," 
a temporary exhibit based upon two words 
the non-premeds among us have probably forgotten from some long-ago biology 
class: genomics (the study of organisms 
in terms of their DNA) and phylogeny 
(the evolutionary history of a species). The 
exhibit aims to demonstrate the interconnectedness of all life forms, revealing some 
surprising interspecies links along the 
way. Though elephant shrews are neither 
elephants nor shrews, Sirch says, they are 
distantly related to the elephant through 
a common ancestor of the superorder Afrotheria, which evolved out of Africa about 
100 million years ago. 

Sirch, a tall man with a salt and pepper 
moustache that gives him the authoritative 
air of an Ivy League professor crossed with 
the host of a home improvement show, 
says that there are 16 known species of elephant shrews in the world. Weighing in 
at roughly one pound each, Makya and 
Bindi's clan of Black and Rufous Giant Elephant Shrews were known as the largest 
of these miniature creatures until recently, 
when an even larger species weighing in at 
one and one-third pounds dwarfed them 
• in status. 

Originally from the forests of Eastern 
Tanzania, elephant shrews are now endangered due to both habitat loss and their 
status as the favored bushmeat of the indigenous population. Only in the past ten 
years have they been kept in captivity, and, 
besides the Peabody, zoos in Philadelphia 
and Denver are the only other places in 
the country where the long-snouted, naked-tailed, speedy-legged creatures can be 
found. Their bizarre appearance and rare 
status has bred some confusion among visitors. Sirch, officially the Peabody Education Coordinator, mourns the inaccuracy 
with which Makya and Bindi are often 
identified. "A lot of kids will come over 
and say: 'Look at the anteaters!'" he says. 
"And this one elderly man who came into 
the exhibit stubbornly insisted that he was 
looking at a pair of opossums." 

This is not the first live animal exhibit to grace the Peabody's diorama and taxidermy-filled halls. In 2004, the museum housed a family of cuttlefish in a 
five-hundred-gallon marine tank as part 
of the "In Search of the Giant Squid" exhibit. Before that, it played host to a litter 
of emu chicks in the Great Hall, placing 
the fledgling birds next to a reconstructed 
Stegosaurus skeleton to emphasize their 
· evolutionary link. ("Most paleontologists 
believe that birds are directly descended 
from dinosaurs," Sirch explains). And if all 
· goes according to plan, the brothers won't 
be the last live residents of the Peabody. As 
their year-long tenure approaches its end, 
Makya and Bindi will have to make room 
for the next exotic species to crawl to the 
museum: Babbs, Sirch, and the rest of the 
Peabody staff are currently installing a new 
glass enclosure for an upcoming exhibit of 
tropical leaf-cutter ants. 


**Title: Jonathan Edwards's Renovation Nightmare**
**Author: Mitch Reich**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yale's best annual traditions are meant to 
be seen: the Game, the Safety Dance, the 
reopening of a newly renovated Residen-
tial College. What's not meant to be seen 
are the screw-ups: the how-could-I-have-
done-that expression after a fumble, the 
lights drunkenly flipped on in Commons, 
or 
and this is the nightmare scenario . a · 
move-in day at Jonathan Edwards with 
fewer beds than students angling to sleep 
in them. 

"I don't think any college has been as 
far behind as JE," says the college's master, 
Gary Haller, of the much-delayed renova-
tion. "Certainly no college has been forced 
not to house some of its students." Fifteen 
students, to be exact, are currently holed 
up in style at the Omni hotel, courtesy 
of Yale's pocketbook, while construction 
crews render their intended rooms in JE's 
Weir Hall habitable. 

The cause of this administrative disaster 
is simple enough: triage. Either the college 
was to have no functioning servery, kitch-
en, or dining hall in time for its freshman 
banquet on September 1, or it was to be 
unable to house some of its students. The 
University chose the latter. It was forced to 
make that decision in the first place, how-
September 2008 
ever, because the college's renovation had 
just barely righted itself from the brink of 
a full-fledged catastrophe. 

The problems at Jonathan Edwards be-
gan shortly after its fifteen-month renova-
tion began, during the project's ripping-up 
and gutting-out phase. Tearing apart old 
walls often reveals structural problems that 
aren't apparent at the outset of a renova-
tion. While cutting into JE's seventy-year-
old terracotta tiles, Yale's construction 
crew ran into constant difficulties. "There 
was a tremendous amount of demolition 
that had to be done," says Tim Galvin, 
the project manager at William A. Berry 
& Son, the private contractor that over-
saw the project's implementation. "Many 
times the actual conditions were different 
from what the design team may have an-
ticipated." Again and again, Galvin was 
forced to return to Yale's architects at Her-
bert S. Newman & Partners to ask them to 
revise their designs. 

Alex Mackenzie, who runs the paint-
ing subcontractor working on the site, 
contrasts the JE job with his experience 
working on the 2006 renovation of Sil-
liman College. "In my opinion," he says, 
"the JE building seemed older, and there's 
a lot more issues we ran into." 

Demolition was initially supposed to 
have been completed, and reconstruction 
well underway, by December. But Galvin, 
Yale's Construction Manager David Cripe, 
and the project's architects were still trou-
bleshooting the deconstruction a month 
later. "It's not a new observation, the fact 
that we're behind schedule," Haller noted 
a week before the college reopened. "It's 
been dear since January of this year." De-
molition wasn't fully completed until Feb-
ruary, causing a further spiral of delays. 

"The demolition went q~ longer than 
what had originally been planned," Galvin 
concedes. ''And any time the demolition is 
continuing, the design can't be finalized. 
Then certain materials had to be ordered 
later than you originally anticipated." 

The project didn't kick into crisis mode 
until the weeks surrounding Commence-
ment, when, after a few attempts to play 
catch-up, work remained two months be-
hind schedule. Yale has no "Plan B" in case 
a college renovation prohibitively spills 
over into the fall. JE students cannot be 
moved back into Swing Spac.e, which will 
already be crawling with Calhoun refugees 
by September, and four hundred beds at


--- Page 8 ---

Simone Berkower JE '09 will pound out her first assignments in her Omni hotel room. 
the Omni is a charge most Yale adminis-
our guys up to 18 or twenty guys." While 
trators would be loath to make. "The end 
a little overtime in a bad economy is a 
date can't move," says Galvin plainly. "Ev~ 
blessing, too much is "pretty inefficient, to 
erybody woke up when they realized things 
be honest with you," says Masucci. Several 
weren't going to happen, and things got a 
subcontractors quietly point fingers at the . 
little more hectic," says Anthony Masucci, 
front end of the project;, from the derelict 
the project manager at Enterprise, the ren-
designers to the demolition delays. 

The two-month overtime marathon al-
layed fears that the college would be un-
usable come September, but the schedul-
ing gap was still closed by only a month. 

"The project team was acting to minimize 
any impact to the students at the start of 
school," says Tom Conroy, a spokesperson 
for the Univ~rsity. This meant that, in or-
der to move students in, work had to be 
stopped cold on some portions of the base-
ment, the faculty offices, and Weir Hall 
while all resources were devoted to finish-
ing the bulk of the residences and the din-
ing complex. The abandoned areas will be 
finished in two phases, the first scheduled 
to conclude by September 19 and the sec-
ond by October 17. 

Even so, a few corners had to be cut to 
make it to the finish line. "The symme-
try of the ceiling and the lighting fixture 
[is off], the links should be matched and 
they're not," says Haller, blaming a con-
struction error. "There was a choice, either 
go back and take it all out and put it all in 
again, and have the servery not open, or 
have slight modifications. I'm convinced 
that nobody who doesn't know what the 
problem was will even notice a difference." 

Sod was laid down in the courtyard only 
days before studen~s arrived, and JE stu-
dents will have to endure construction in 
their college for at least six weeks after they 
have moved in. 

Yale has no "Plan B" in case 
a college renovation prohibi-
tively spills over into the all 

The most notable victims of the delays, 
of course, are the Omni fifteen. But Lesley 
Kiger' 10, a field hockey player exiled from 
her suite for the time being, is keenly aware 
of the perks. "Living in the Omni definite-
ly has its benefits!" she writes in an email. 
"King-size bed, air conditioning, wireless, 
big television. We even get chocolates on 
our pillow!" Haller has also assured that all 
students living in the Omni will have sin-
gle rooms and have their clothes laundered 
on the University's tab. The hotel's isola-
tion, however, is what makes Kiger most 
eager to return to her college. Hiking to 
team practice shortly after dawn is an or-
deal, and "it's really lonely and lacking the 
residential college atmosphere. My room 
is on the same floor as my suitemates' but 
is not near them and not connected by a 
common room," she explains. 

For its part, Yale has kept mum about 
its reported frustration with the contrac-
tors for letting this mess get out of hand. 
The University has worked with Galvin's 
crew before on Science Hill, and Jerry 
Warren, the former associate vice president 
for Construction and Renovation, selected 
him again. But there is still some audible 
grumbling. "They have, of course, tried to 
make me happy in every way," says Haller. 
"But there's certain things they can't do. 
They can't get all the students in. They do 
things they're not supposed to. They can't 
deliver what they need to deliver, which is 
a completed college." 

·TN 
Mitch Reich, a senior in Pierson College, 
is a managing editor o 
J. 


**Title: The Elmhurst's Longtime Resident**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 9**

During the last few days of August, while 
the majority ofYalies awkwardly haul box-
es up residential college stairwells, those 
not living in dormitories can be found in 
the neighborhoods surrounding the uni-
versity, moving into their first apartments, 
buying kitchen gadgets, and dreaming of 
dinner parties and queen-sized beds. Ac-
cording to the Yale Daily News, a third 
of Yale seniors move off campus, and the 
Elmhurst, a large brick building on Elm 
Street, becomes home to many of them. 

One resident of the Elmhurst, howev-
er, never needs to unpack. Phil Prince TD 
'52 YSM '59 lives comfortably in his fifth-
floor apartment. Prince is the only non-
undergraduate resident of the notoriously 
~ 
grungy student colony. A New Havener 
for the past sixty years, he has made his 
home in the Elmhurst for the past twenty 

-and has no plans to move. 

Rudys and Phil Prince may~ 
very well be the oldest estab-
lishments on the block. 

Prince grew up in Illinois, the son of 
a preacher-man. When his father took a 
new job as a minister in Greenwich, Prince 
enrolled in a Connecticut prep school. "I 
liked it, but I didn't really fit in at all, being 
a preacher's son. A lot of the people had 
come from really wealthy backgrounds. 
This was the same with Yale," says Prince, 
who worked to put himself through Yale. 
"No fraternities or anything for me." 

Prince arrived in New Haven for his 
freshman year in the fall of 1948. After 
• 
graduating as a Latin major, he studied 
music history at the graduate school before 
receiving his master's at the Yale School of 
Music. An organist, he was employed for 
22 years by Christ Church on the corner 
of Elm Street and Whalley-Avenue. In 
1974, Prince was awarded an associate fel-
lowship in Stiles College for his contribu-
tion to the New Haven community. For a 
while, he took his meals in the dining hall 
so he could get to know the Stiles under-
graduates. 

Prince moved to the Elmhurst in 1988 
to live near his retired mother on Lyn-
wood Place. At that time, he explains, the 
Elmhurst housed mostly law and other 
graduate students. "There were a few cou-
ples. One or two of them had children 
actually, or a child; it wasn't really a large 
enough place to raise a family decently so 
9 


**The Enigmatic Resident of the Elmhurst**
**Author: Rachel Engler**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
they didn't stay there too long after that. 
Then gradually it became almost entirely 
inhabited by undergraduates." 
The neighborhood, like the build-
ing within it, has undergone a significant 
transformation. Prince remembers a qui-
eter New Baven without today's gourmet 
restaurants and ambulance sirens. Over 
the years, the view from his fifth-floor 
window has changed. Three now-absent 
poplar trees stood before the building, and 
the Cosi restaurant down the street was a 
firehouse. The only establishment that has 
always been a fixture . of Elm Street life is 
Rudy's Restaurant, though Prince is none 
too fond of the infamous bar: "Rudy's has 
been here for a long time, and it's been 
one of the detriments of living in the 
Elmhurst," he grumbles. 
Rudy's and Phil Prince mayverywell be 
the oldest establishments on the block. Af-
ter the only other non-undergrad, a Viet-
nam War veteran, was evicted from the 
building about a year ago, Prince recalls, 
he found himself alone in a sea of young 
Yalies 
Though he doesn't mind existing in this 
demographic, he admits that his presence 
can be off-putting for current students. "I 
can remember maybe ten or 15 years ago, . 
it was this time of year, and the people who 
were moving into the apartment next to 
me were describing who lived where, and 
they said, 'There are some undergraduates 
living across the hall and diagonally from 
us, and, urn, downstairs there are some 
. graduate students, but next to us there 
is this really old man!' Of course, now I 
fit that definition, but that was twelve or 
15 years ago, and I don't think I was one 
th 
" 
en. 
In recent undergraduate mythology, the 
Elmhurst has come to be known as both 
a filthy apartment building and a hipster 
hangout. The building's reputation leaves 
little room for senior citizens. Though 
Prince does wear thick-framed glasses and 
loafers, staples of the hipster wardrobe, 
neither are meant to be ironic. 
Allegra Long ES '08, a two-year resi-
dent of the Elmhurst's fifth floor, describes 
her former home as a scene that's "become 
synonymous with these certain sort of 
parties and these certain people who live 
there. When you tell people you live in the 
Elmhurst, you get an 'Ohhh, you live in 
the Elmhurst. You must dress this way and 
study this thing and be really into talking 
10 
about this thing.''' 
Prince was surprised by his building's 
reputation. He has not noticed any par-
ticularly bohemian tendencies among his 
neighbors, and Prince knows hipsters: In 
1966, he began teaching organ lessons at 
nearby Wesleyan University, whose stu-
dents he describes as "sort of extreme, very 
different from Yale." 
Though Prince does 
wear 
thick- oamed glasses and loa -· · 
ers, staples o ·the hipster ward-
robe, neither are meant to be 
zronzc. 
Long graduated last June, abandoning 
the Elmhurst and what she considers to be 
its deplorable conditions. "It's the cheap-
est building in New Haven,'~ she explains. 
"You pay for what you get. We had holes 
in our walls, we had crooked floors, and 
we had mice. Literally everything you can 
imagine being wrong with an apartment, 
we had." Though she says she "loved" her 
time in the Elmhurst, she is quick to qual-
ify this statement: "We don't really mind, 
because we're college kids, but the idea of 
that being your permanent home ... by the 
end of two years we were done, we were 
ready to be out." When. asked about her 
neighbor, Mr. Prince, Long admits that 
she doesn't know much. "Phil is a mystery 
wrapped in an enigma," ·says Long, who 
shared her bedroom wall with him for 
two years. "No one knows what he does 
for a living." Many Elmhurst undergradu-
ates speculate about their elderly neighbor, 
wondering what his apartment is like and 
if it's nicer than theirs. 
Miranda Popkey BR '09, an editor of 
this magazine, observed Prince from afar 
during her time living on the Elmhurst's 
fifth floor. "He dresses like he's from the 
1950s 
he's kind of stuck there. He wears 
this tan trench coat and a fedora. In the 
summer, he wears those funny white lin-
en button-down shirts that no one has 
worn since Marlon Brando in 'A Streetcar 
Named Desire,"' she says. "He's basically 
Marlon Brando." 
Though he keeps his distance, Prince 
cannot remain oblivious to his student 
neighbors. "I've had a lot of trouble, from 
time to time, with undergraduates living 
in the apartment below me," he says. "They 
come in and they turn on their Hi-Fi or 
whatever you want to call it, their sound 
system, very late at night, 2 a.m., 3 a.m., 
which wakes me up." Prince also acknowl-
. edges that, as the neighborhood has gener-
ally improved, the building itself has only 
deteriorated during his tenure there. 
Despite the Elmhurst's sorry state, 
Prince finds enough to recommend it. "I 
like living close to the library and gym," he 
says. He swims five days a week in Payne 
Whitney's pool 
he's an avid freestyler. 
Prince also appreciates the area's restau-
. rants. "I like Hunan Cafe on York Street 
and Royal India on Howe Street. Those are 
pretty much my favorites," he says. 
His swimming lungs are especially valu-
able when he is forced to trek up some 
seventy steps to his apartment on the not-
too-rare occasion that the building's noto-
riously fickle elevator is out of commission. 
His landlord often suggests that he move 
down a few floors or out of the building 
altogether. Prince has so far ignored this 
suggestion, but he admits that "it's get-
ting harder and harder" to continue his 
decades-long residency. 


For now, however, until he can gather 
enough energy to . haul his life down four 
flights of stairs and out of the building 
which has housed him for the past twenty 
years, Prince remains the enigmatic com-
mon denominator amongst a flurry of stu-
dents on their way to somewhere else. 
TN 


<br>

**Statehouse Politics and New Haven's Prisoner Re-entry Initiative**
**Author: Nick Handler**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

FEAT 
I 
Statehouse politics lead New Haven to forge its own solution to prisoner re-entry. 
For the last four decades, controversies over 
crime, punishment, and rehabilitation have 
contributed to the breakdown of urban 
America and the outcome of elections. For 
the last 14 years, John DeStefano has been 
New Haven's revitalizing mayor, fighting a 
slow battle to turn the city around. And 
for the last six months, he has tried to tack-
le one of the most acrimonious crime and 
punishment controversies of them all: pris-
oner re-entry. On February 26, the morn-
ing after three New Haven shootings left 
one man dead and two police officers in 
critical condition, DeStefano called a press 
conference and placed the blame squarely 
on Governor Jodi Rell, citing her refusal 
to develop a meaningful prison re-entry 
program. for ex-convicts. All three shooters 
had criminal records, DeStefano charged, 
and all had fallen through the cracks of a 
system with virtually no state-funded sup-
port for people released from prison. These 
convicts, the allegation continued, were 
September 2008 
only the tip of the iceberg. DeStefano ac-
cused Rell, to whom he had lost a bid for 
governor in 2006, of "dumping" between 
-25 and thirty prisoners released from state 
prison in New Haven each week. Without 
a structured re-entry program or adequate ~ 
social services, these prisoners seemed des-
tined to commit further violent crime. 
AFTER WITNESSING the bitter partisan 
battle over New Haven's ex-convict popu-
lation, one New Haven administrator has 
a plan to evade existing politicallandmines 
and funding quandaries to provide released 
prisoners the support they need. This fall, 
Kica Matos, director ofNew Haven's Com-
munity Services Administration (CSA), is 
launching an ambitious new prison re-en-
try initiative designed to fill the gap left by 
the relative indifference of statewide lead-
ership. If successful, the New Haven Re-
entry Initiative will become one of the first 
government programs in the country to 
unify city social services and community 
outreach resources, both governmental and 
non-governmental, in one comprehensive, 
city-wide resource network. 
As Matos quietly released background 
information on her initiative, Rell engaged 
DeStefano's accusations in a highly public 
feud. that was the climax of what had been 
an eventful year for ConnectiCut's criminal 
justice system. In August of 2007, months 
after progressives had won an extended 
battle to legally raise Connecticut's mini-
mum age for adult prosecution from 16 to 
18, two parolees who had met at a Con-
necticut halfway house viciously murdered 
three members of the Petit family in subur-
ban Cheshire, a town home to three of the 
state's largest prisons. In response to weeks 
of national media attention and a public 
outcry by voters demanding tougher pa-
role restrictions, Rell instituted a nearly 
six-month-long ban on parole hearings 
for prisoners convicted of violent felo-
11 


nies. This measure provoked outrage and 
protests from Connecticut communities, 
New Haven among them, angered by 'the 
delayed return of incarcerated loved ones. 
In early February of 2008, Rell lifted 
her parole ban and instituted new guide-
lines for parole hearings. After DeStefano's 
press conference weeks later, she struck 
back in a public letter released on March 
1 '· accusing DeStefano of a "frankly shock-
ing" lack of understanding of the criminal 
justice system. None of the three shooters 
that February night, Rell correctly pointed 
out, had been under the supervision of 
the DOC at the time of the shootings; 
they had been on probation under qmrt 
supervision. She also accused DeStefano 
of failing to recognize the "extraordinary 
assistance 
almost entirely at Connecticut 
tax payer expense" that the state police had 
provided New Haven to combat crime. "If 
I were in an ironic frame of mind," Rell 
continued, noting that New Haven ac-
counted for 12 percent of Connecticut's 
prison population, "perhaps I might com-
plain about the city of New Haven 'dump-
ing' its problems with drugs, violence, and 
othet crimes on the state -of Connecticut." 
Though the governor and mayor later 
met with the Department of Corrections 
(DOC) commissioner, Theresa Lantz, to 
discuss their differences, the contentious 
"dumping" issue remained unresolved. 
HoWEVER UGLY, Rell and DeStefano's feud 
drew attention to the disturbing fact that 
Connecticut, a state with over 18,000 
Connecticut citizens currently incarcerated 
and a recidivism rate for released offenders 
calculated by the DOC at 40 percent, lacks 
a comprehensive . plan to smoothly transi-
tion released prisoners back into society. 
Many pinpoint this deficiency as a central 
cause ofNew Haven's crime problem. · · 
"What we found when we looked at the 
statistics," Matos explains, "was that a lot 
of these crimes were being committed by 
folks with criminal records." Her conclu--
sions resulted from a year of researching 
the city's crime and incarceration statistics, 
existing social services for released prison-
ers, and successful models for prison re-
entry in other cities around the country. 
Diagnosing New Havens failings, Matos 
asserts that "there are definitely structur-
al problems with the system. Right now, 
there seems to be a missing link between 
the DOC and the people trying to navi-
h 
, 
gate t e system. 
New Haven's numbers on crime and 
recidivism 
the propensity for ex-convicts 
to commit more crimes 
reveal the uphill 
battle the city faces. According to the CSA, 
in 2007, 70 percent of New Haven's ho-
micide victims, 51 percent of its non-fatal 
shooting victims, and 80 percent of sus-
pects for both crimes had criminal records. 
70 percent of all people released from pris-
on, according to the Connecticut DOC's 
annual report on recidivism, are rearrested 
within a year. More than half of them will 
be r~corivicted and a third re-incarcerated. 
Especially troubling for the city is that half 
of these ex-convicts live in only three of 
New Havens neighborhoods: The Hill, 
Fair Haven, and Newhallville. 
· 
70 percent of all people re-
leased 
'Om przson are rear-
rested within a , year. More 
than hal of them will be re-
convicted and a third will be 
re-incarcerated. 
"What people have to realize," says 
Mike Lawlor, a Democratic state represen-
tative from East Haven, the Chair of the 
Connecticut House Judiciary Committee, 
and a long-time advocate for judicial re-
form, "is that it's the guys that are getting 
out of prison that are causing a lot of these 
problems." 
According to both Lawlor and Matos, 
recidivism occurs so frequently because 
ex-felons have no way to meet their basic 
needs. "In a lot of these cases it's not hard to 
figure out," says Lawlor. "You need hous-
ing, services, you need supervision." One 
obstacle for released prisoners seeking to 
meet these needs is a lack of legatrights to 
protect them from discrimination. People 
with criminal records are disqualified from 
public housing, a policy that often sepa-
rates them from family and leaves them 
with nowhere to go. Connecticut, unlike 
some states, does not have laws explicitly 
banning discrimination based ~n criminal 
records, which makes it easier for employ-



**Title: Re-entry into Society**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
ers to turn down ex-offenders looking for 
jobs. 
· 
"Jobs are a huge problem," says Sally 
Joughin, a coordinator of People Against 
Injustice, a New Haven community group 
that advocates for Elm City residents af-
fected by the criminal justice system. "Not 
only because someone spending a long 
. 
time in prison may not have a marketable 
job skill or education, but also because 
there is discrimination against people who 
have been in prison." 


The prevalence of untreated mental 
health and substance abuse issues 
15 
percent of all people released from prison 
have a serious mental illness 
often makes 
it harder for former criminals to find jobs. 
Many parole and probation officers, offi-
cially tasked with addressing these prob-
lems, are burdened with heavy case loads 
that do not allow them to effectively ad-
minister to parolees. Compounding these 
obstacles is the lack of a consolidated and 
accurate list of the few resources available 
to prisoners released in New Haven. "If 
folks come back into the community and 
don't have options," Matos summarizes, 
' 
"it's hard to make sure they don't go out · 
and relapse." 


Unlike Lawlor and DeStefano, who 
have prioritized increasing state aid and 
funding for existing programs, Matos' 
initiative involves working at a local level 
. to encourage cooperation and innovation 
. among existing re-entry resource provid-
ers. Some of the initial changes slated to 
premier this fall are an accurate and up-
dated guide to resources available to every 
prisoner upon release, increased coordina-
tion amongst court support services, and 
regular meetings among state, local, non-
profit, and faith-based organizations work-
ing on re-entry issues. 


Joughin emphasizes the need for stream-
lining re-entry service funding. "Should a 
well-funded state re-entry program be de-
veloped, just as there is a state incarceration 
system?" she asks. "Right now there are 
many different non-profits providing vari-
ous kinds of re-entry programs and com-
peting for state funding. There shouldn't 
be a competition for funds. Every released 
prisoner should automatically be getting 
the services he or she needs." 


Some community activists are skepti-
cal not only of governmental services, but 
also of non-profit efforts to ease re-entry. 
Barbara Fair, a long-time organizer with 
·· 
People Against Injustice who first got in-
volved in criminal justice activism when 
her brother was incarcerated 
in a prison 
system, she says, that "neither of us really 
understood" 
insists that "the only thing 
that is 'non-profit' about most non-profits 
is the pay that direct service providers:-
the real workers 
receive." Fair sees the 
entire system, non-profits included, as 
fundamentally corrupt. "Incarceration is a 
huge business," she says. "[It is] the fastest-
growing, most recession-proof industry in 
America today, and it is so huge that stock 
investments are available. Because it is a 
huge business, there is no incentive to de-
incarcerate because empty cells lead to loss 
on the stock market and loss in jobs for 
thousands who might otherwise be unem-
ployed or unemployable." 


Matos is aware that many activists 
share Fair's cynicism, but she remains 
optimistic about large-scale grassroots co-
operation. "The overwhelming consensus 
Prisoners released into New Haven are disqualified from public housing in buildings such as Westville Manor, often leaving them with nowhere to go. 


Politics in Hartford's capitol building have prevented the legislature and community groups alike from alleviating the strain a steady stream of released pris-
oners has placed on New Haven . 


from community-based organizations," 
she explains, "is that the city does have a 
major role to play, and we want to bring 
everyone to the table." Matos, along with 
Joughin and other community organizers, 
currently hopes to garner support for New 
Haven's new "Ban the Box" campaign to 
officially remove questions about criminal 
history from preliminary job applications. 
"We think it would be better if that sub-
ject came up later in the interview pro-
cess," Matos says. Her pilot proposal for 
the Re-entry Initiative explains that the 
"Ban the Box" project would help inmates 
rejoin the workforce. This program would 
include outreach to local businesses to in-
crease awareness of the Work Opportunity 
Tax Credit, a federal tax incentive for em-
ployers to hire ex-felons. 


IN FOCUSING ON THE EXCHANGE of infor-
-
mation, Matos has found an innovative so-
lution to the biggest sticking point in the 
re-entry debate. While Lawlor, DeStefano, 
and Rell battle endlessly over funding-
"Governor Rell just doesn't want to fund 
these programs," Lawlor complains, even 
though ~'the Department of Corrections 
ran $19 million over budget in _2007 and 
is expected to run $24 I)lillion over budget 
this year" 
Matos emphasizes that many 
of the city's initial programs will be "non- · 
resource heavy." By focusing on informa-
tion, outreach, and streamlining, Matos 
has created a program that requires little 
funding. 


But she has not given up hope for 
significant improvement in the degree 
of state-level support for New Haven in-
mates. In the past few years, both she and 
Lawlor are quick to note, the DOC has 
adopted a more enlightened view of pris-
oner re-entry. "They seem very much on 
board with working together," Matos ex-
plains. "We've had some very productive 
discussions." 


In focusing on the exchange of 
information:~ Matos has found 
an innovative solution to the 
biggest sticking point in the 
re-entry debate: 
nding. 


Brian Garnett, a DOC spokesperson, 
emphasizes that, since 2003, when a new 
commissioner came on board, the Depart-
ment has made significant improvements 
. to encourage re-entry. "The old way of 
doing corrections," Garnett explains, "was 
showing an offender the front door on 
their last day of incarceration and waving 
goodbye 
that doesn't work and it isn't 
good for public safety." He points out that 
since · 2003, the DOC has doubled the 
number of halfway house beds in Con-
necticut to 1,200 and significantly stepped 
up re-entry preparation during incarcera-
tion. "From day one we are planning for 
releasing an offender back into society," he 
says. 


Both he and Lawlor also mention that 
Connecticut's prison system is still "in a 
much better place" than those of many 
other states 
it is one of only a handful of 
states, according to a recent, highly publi-
cized Pew study of national incarceration 
trends, whose incarcerated population has 
not grown over the last three years. States 
like California and Florida face re-entry . 
and recidivism crises of a much higher · 
degree. 


Despite these promising steps, how-
ever, the DOC and Governor Rell remain 
locked in disagreement with New Haven 
reformers over the extent to which the 
present system is broken. While almost 
every state and local representative in New 
Haven insists that more re-entry funding 
is needed, Garnett avers that "Governor 
Rell's support has been more than suffi-
cient 
we do not need any more money." 


And while Garnett merely points out that 
Connecticut's overall reconviction rate of 
40 percent drops to 24 percent when pris-
oners are released under the close super-
vision of parole officers, Lawlor is actively 
pursuing funding to hire new parole offi-
cers so that existing officers can work more 
effectively. 


Garnett also flatly denies DeStefano's 
charge of state prisoner "dumping" in New 
Haven. "We are not dumping anybody 
anywhere," he explains in language remi-
niscent of Rell's March letter to DeSte-
fano. "We are simply returning people to 
their homes. People want to go horne after 
they are released and that is where we take 
them." Though, in the summary of her 
pilot program, Matos included interviews 
with prisoners from around the state who 
were dropped in New Haven rather than 
their hometowns, Garnett classifies these 
". 
" 
accounts as JUSt maccurate. 


The question of their origin aside, no 
one denies that ex-convicts are streaming 
into New Haven at a steady rate and that 
they can't be helping the city's already-epic 
battle with crime and violence. But while · 
Matos continues to search for common 
ground between community groups and 
political opponents, the core controversy 
between reformers and the status quo re-
mams. 


"Both Democrats and Republicans fa-
miliar with the issue realize that you're go-
ing to have to spend this money one way 
or another," Lawlor explains. "It's just a 
matter of whether you want to spend less 
now on re-entry, or more later on new 
, 
pnsons. 


**Missionaries in New Haven**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Missionaries live, eat, and proselytize in two-person "companionships:' 
In St. George, Utah, Randen Syphus' · 
hometown, it hardly ever rains. But one 
Saturday night in July, Syphus is far from 
home, and as the blue Dodge Caravan he 
rides in sidles up to the curb, he steps out 
of the passenger seat to a New Haven sky 
heavy with rain clouds. In black suits, col-
lared white shirts, nametags, and ties, Sy-
phus and Chris Eyres, his companion, are 
strangely formal, out of place amidst the 
abandoned, broken-windowed industrial 
buildings northwest of the Yale Divinity 
• 
School. 

Just 21 years old, Syphus and Eyres 
make for unlikely religious shepherds, 
but for the past two years, this has been 
their job. Both left their homes in Utah 
to serve two-year, full-time mission trips 
for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
Day Saints that eventually brought them 
to the Elm City. In 2006, they numbered 
among the over 80 percent of 19-year-old 
boys from Mormon families who under-
take such trips. 

During his first weeks in New Haven, 
a passerby stopped Syphus on this street 
and warned him not to return at night 
unless he wanted to risk being shot. Now, 
18 
' 
he's walked it an uncountable number of 
times, and he confidently ushers Eyres 
across the wide parking lot of the Sheffield 
Oaks apartment complex. 

The downpour hasn't yet starred when 
the two enter the first-floor vestibule. Sy-
phus punches in the access code and they 
climb to the second floor, where a woman 
named Beulah lives. When they reach her 
door, Syphus is the one who knocks 
one 
long, four shorts, two longs. They wait. 
Beulah has no phone, but Syphus has vis-
ited her apartment for their thrice-weekly 
standing date enough times to know: "She's 
not here. If she was, she'd have yelled for 
b 
, 
us y now. 

They descend .the back stairway a little 
more slowly than they ascended it, looking 
for a place to sit down. When they stop 
at a wooden porch by a dumpster in the 
parking lot, the sky finally breaks open, 
and they sprint for the van. "We just can't 
catch a break," they groan over their shoul-
ders. 

The seclusion and asceticism the Mor-
mon Church demands of missionaries like 
Syphus and Eyres is a far cry from the he-
donism of college. Yet the Church man-
ages to deploy over fifty thousand full-time 
Mormon missionaries across the globe, the 
vast majority of whom are men and wom-
en in their early 20s. A handful are Yalies 
who have formally withdrawn from the 
University to serve. 

Although their methods vary, they are 
all geared toward a common goal: to re-
cruit converts to the Mormon Church. 
And while they've all faced countless re-
Jections in their quest to share their faith, 
these young missionaries' efforts have un-
doubtedly helped make Mormonism one 
the fastest-growing religions in the world. 

ON A SuNDAY MORNING in May, Syphus 
sat in the middle row of an assembly room 
in a modest brick building on Trumbull 
Street. The blue folding chairs were filled 
with the entire New Haven ward of the 
. Mormon Church, congregants of every 
demographic 
a harried, young-looking 
blond couple with an infant and two tod-
dlers in tow; a dark-haired teenager who 
directed hymns from the front of the 
room; a middle-aged Hispanic woman 
who affectionately patted the cheek of a 
white-haired man as she hurried past him , 
on her way to her seat. 

When Smith served with Sy-
phus~ they each kept all o 
their belongings 
two years' 
· worth 
in two suitcases. New 
Haven is Syphus' third assign-
ment, and Smith can no lon-
ger recall how many cities he 
served. 

A young Hispanic couple had been 
baptized the week before and was being 
confirmed just in front of the wooden po-
dium. "Welcome as part of a great broth-
erhood and sisterhood," announced Mike 
Turner, the ward bishop and a third.-year 
graduate student in molecular biology at 
Yale. 

In the back row, a young blond man 
repeated Turner's words in quiet Spanish 
into a black headset; roughly a fifth of 
the congregants listened to his transla-
tion through receivers and headphones 
they grabbed from an over-full bin by the 
door. The church has no shortage of Span-




**The Mormon Missionaries of New Haven**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
ish translators, Turner explained, because 
two suitcases. New Haven is Syphus's third · 
desirable." 
of the number of former missionaries who 
assignment, and Smith can no longer re-
To compensate for such incidences, 
learned the language in order to serve trips 
call how many cities he served. 
New Haven missionaries often take a 
in Spanish-speaking countries. 
Missionaries always serve in pairs, or 
. more scattershot approach, starting con-
The Mormon Church is known for its 
"companionships," living together; shar-
versations on city buses about sports teams 
painstaking missionary reach not just into 
ing meals, and proselytizing with a partner 
and the weather and waiting for the inevi-
Spanish-speaking areas, but into almost ev-
at all times. Companionships aren't trans-
table question about their clothes, or the 
ery corner of the world, an approach that 
ferred together, however, and missionaries 
black-and-white 
nametags emblazoned 
has successfully turned a once-persecuted 
work with as many partners as they have 
with their title and surname 
"Elder Sy-
religion into a global faith. There are 344 
transfers. Currently comprising Syphus 
phus," "Elder Eyres." Syphus recalls meet-
"missions" 
geographic regions to which 
and Eyres, the New Haven companion-
ing a man named Eddy outside of a thrift 
missionaries may be assigned 
across the 
ship shares exclusive responsibility for the 
store. in West Haven who announced that 
globe. Although there are not always active· 
roughly · 124,000 residents of New Ha-
the missionaries' ties were ugly and invited 
missionaries throughout each mission, al-
ven 
and an apartment on Elm Street 
them inside to buy new ones. Within a 
most the entire populated world falls with-
with two missionaries who serve the Span-
year, Eddy had quit smoking 
nicotine, 
in one of these sets of boundaries. Syphus 
ish-speaking contingent of the city. 
caffeine, and other stimulants are taboo 
and Eyres serve in the Connecticut Hart-
Syphus and Eyres split their time be-
in the Mormon Church 
in the hopes of 
ford Mission, which means that they may 
tween "tracting" 
choosing a neighbor-
one day being baptized into the Mormon 
be reassigned at a moment's notice to any 
hood and knocking on every door 
Church. 
of a number of sites in Connecticut, Rhode 
"street contacting," or stopping passersby 
The same approach led Smith and Sy-
Island, or Massachusetts. "You could get a 
on the sidewalk, and arranging meetings 
phus to Beulah, whom they met one day at 
call on Sunday, and on Tuesday, you'd have 
with "investigators" like Beulah who have 
a McDonald's. After enough one-on-one 
to drive to the mission center in Hartford 
already expressed an interest in their mes-
meetings with the missionaries, she has 
and move on to another assignment," ex-
sage. Although they've found the last tactic 
only to quit smoking and drinking coffee 
plains Justin Smith, Eyres' predecessor, 
to be the most effective, they often run the 
before she can be baptized. 
who finished his mission in June. When 
risk of being stood up, or, in missionary 
Still, easy successes like Beulah and 
he served with Syphus, they each kept all 
lexicon, "boached." "Lately," says Syphus 
Eddy are rare, and before he completed his 
of their belongings 
two years' worth 
in 
dryly, "our boach rate has been higher than 
mission, Smith resorted to unconventional 


---
Austin Pulsipher, currently serving a mission in Taiwan, worries about how he will transition back into college life. 

tactics to reach out in New Haven. To draw 
from a set of six lessons entitled "The Uni-
students, he and Syphus set up an after-
form System for Teaching the Gospel." 
noon study room on the fourth floor of 84 
They memorized the lessons in whatever 
Trumbull Street, advertising free Internet 
language they would .. be teaching in and 
access and a limited library. He e-mailed 
recited them, word-for-word, to their 
a Yale Divinity School professor in the 
charges. 
hopes of lecturing his class on Mormon-
ism 
"that didn't really work out." Once, 
he stood on a box in Elm Street, opened 
his arms, and started preaching his gospel 
to passersby, and another time, he invit-
ed a trumpet player panhandling outside 
the British Art Center to accompany his 
preaching with a rendition of "When the 
Saints Go Marching In." On Wednesdays, 
he and Syphus played pickup football at 
the park, fielding the inevitable questions 
about their faith by offering a copy of the 
Book of Mormon and tutoring sessions on 
the scriptures. 
These resourceful methods, like Smith 
and Syphus themselves, are emblematic of 
• a new generation of missionaries that has 
replaced the standardized, memorized les-
sons once aimed at potential converts with 
"teaching by the spirit," allowing their 
impulses to dictate lessons and dialogue. 
Mormon missionaries once taught solely 


Jennifer Gardner, far left, on mission in Sweden. 

"People would ask . questions 
by default when you have two 
big, blond Americans in suits 
and nametags:~ :~:~Swett laughs. 
In 2004, however, the "System" was 
replaced with "Preach My Gospel," a 13-
chapter guide with sections like "How 
Do I Develop Christlike Attributes?" and 
"How Do I Recognize and Understand the 
Spirit?" "It's more about saying what peo-
ple need to hear, when they need to hear 
it," explains Turner, the New Haven ward 
bishop andYale graduate student. 
However, even teaching by the spirit 
requires rigid commitment. Missionaries 
are expected to rise each morning at 6:30 
to study the scriptures as well as to ·plan 
lessons for the day, exercise, and eat. The 
hours from 10 a.m. until 9 p.m. are set 
aside for missionary work 
proselytizing 
and service 
and missionaries are expect-
ed to be in bed by 10:30 p.m. They are al-
lowed one "preparation day" per week, for 
buying groceries, doing laundry, cleaning, 
and letter-writing 
for Syphus and Smith, 
it was pickup ·football Wednesdays 
and 
they attend Sacrament meetings on Sun-
days. 
Missionaries are allowed only one hour 
of Internet access per week and only two 
phone calls per year, one on Christmas and 
~he other on Mother's Day. Thayne Stod-
dard MC '11, preparing for a 2009 mis-
sion, finds this prospect hard to imagine . 
''I'm worried about being isolated [during 
my mission]," he admits. "I've called my 
mom every single day this year." 
The New Haven missionaries have ac-
cess to a car for half the. week, but spend 
the rest of the time traveling by bicycle, 
bus, and foot; whenever possible, mission-
aries are required to rdy on public trans-
portation in the cities they serve. "Noth-
ing can prepare you for what it's like to be 
out there," explains Sebastian Swett}E '09, 
who left Yale in 2004 to serve on mission 
in Milan. ''I'd get tired, and it was a differ-
ent fatigue than what I was used to 
it's 
this constant output of energy." 
Each missionary is responsible for pay-
ing his or her own way, sending $400 to the 
Church for each month of service, money 
which is then redistributed among all of 
the missionaries worldwide for housing 
and food. Smith worked for a sign instal-
lation company before he started his mis-
sion, while Syphus saved $10,000 working 
for his father's concrete-cutting business. 
"That money is sacred money," says Smith. 
"[My mission] means so much more to me 
because I had to work for it." 
But in spite of the thousands of hours 
spent knocking on doors and distributing 
pamphlets and the thousands of dollars to-
ward housing and food, the Church relies 
on its quantity of missionaries, rather than 
their rate of conversion, to spread the faith: 
Church statistics estimate that an average 
of just 4.7 new converts join the Church 
for each year one missionary spends on the 
job . 
THIS RATE IS OFTEN higher in overseas 
mission areas, particularly in Africa and 
South America, despite the linguistic and 
cultural barriers missionaries in these ar-


eas face. Because fluency is essential for a 
group peddling such intangibles as faith, 
all missionaries attend one of 17 Mission-
ary Training Centers (MTCs) worldwide 
before embarking on their trips. Most are 
sent to the MTC in Provo, Utah, where 
they spend between three weeks 
if they 
will be proselytizing in English 
and three 
months studying the scriptures and learn-
ing the intricacies of both teaching their 
gospel and speaking the language they will 
adopt for the next two years. Before em-
barking on his trip to the Poland-Warsaw 
mission in 1998, Turner attended two 
four- to five-hour Polish language classes 
and an evening session on the gospel every 
day for nine weeks at the MTC. 
A second complicating factor is the 
range of responses Mormons can expect 
from country to country and culture to 
culture. Jordan Frandsen MC '08 served 
his mission in Russia, where tracting is il-
legal. Instead, missionaries would go into 
elementary schools to stage puppet shows 
about the evils of alcohol, drugs, and to-
bacco and offer free English lessons in 
peoples' homes, always ending with a mes-
sage of faith. During his mission in Italy, 
Swett also spent time on service activities. 
In one city, he jokes, he and his fellow 
missionaries noticed that everyone always 
seemed to be moving, so they borrowed a 
van from the local Mormon church to act 
as the "muscle of the congregation" and 
help people move. Since Swett felt un-
comfortable stopping people on the street, 
he'd often strike up conversations about· 
faith with strangers he met while traveling. 
"People would ask questions by default 
when you have two big, blond Americans 
in suits and nametags," he laughs. 
During his trip to Romania, Walker 
Frahm JE '1 0 found that the people he 
encountered were wary of his intentions. 
"Romania is still struggling to get out of 
the shadow of communism, and you can 
see that in the way people have a hard time 
talking to others who aren't in their imme-
diate family," he says. "Something like 60 
percent of people ratted on their neighbors 
to the secret police; when everyone is a spy, 
' 
" 
you cant trust anyone. 
And, Frahm continues, in the rare cir-
cumstance when he encountered people 
who were familiar with Mormonism; they 
were sorely misinformed. "You know the 
film Witness? That movie was translated 
into Romanian such that every instance of


the word 'Amish' was replaced with 'Mor-
mon,"' he laughs. "People would b-e like, 
'Oh, Mormons! We respect you and your 
simple way of life ... no electricity .. .' and 
we'd be like, 'No, wrong one!"' 
For Turner, the challenge wasn't skep-
. ticism, but rather an existing faith: He 
· served in Poland, a country that is 89 per-
cent Catholic. "People say that you're not 
a Pole if you're not Catholic," he says: "The 
people who joined the Mormon Church 
in Poland sacrificed a lot to join and were 
denounced by their families." While he 
was there, the one hundred missionaries 
throughout the country saw just sixty bap-
tisms each year. 
THE NUMBERS ARE DAUNTING, but Turnet · 
says that he never used them to measure 
his success as a missionary. "Success is real .. 
ly anytime you help to convey to someone 
that God lives," he says. "It doesn't mean 
that they join the church." 
· 
For Jennifer Gardner ES '05 GRD '08, 
success in her mission meant expanding 
her own beliefs to include a new kind of 
faith: faith in people. "I've gained a greater 
appreciation for individuals of the world 
-·their diversity and also their commonal-
ity. Everyone is looking for meaning in life 
and purpose, and at a basic level, every-
one needs the same things," she explains. · 
Gardner was one of few single women to 
serve a mission, and while the trip remains 
a rite of passage more for 19-year-old male 
Mormons than their female peers, not all 
young men serve missions. Some are pro-
hibited by health concerns, both mental 
and physical, some simply choose not to 
serve, and some are prevented from serv-
ing by the Church itself on the groun<!_s 
that they are "unworthy," which can en-
compass anything from homosexuality, to 
fathering a child out of wedlock, to unre-
solved debt. 
Still, Yale students serving mission trips 
are common enough that there is now a 
process in place for students to leave the 
University for two years without fear of 
losing their spots. Prospective missionaries 
withdraw from the University and then re-
enroll 
a formality, the returned mission-
aries say 
in a new graduating class with a 
brief essay about the time they spent away 
from Yale. But while the bureaucracy of re-
turning to Yale may be trivial, the intrica-
cies of readapting to college life rarely are, 
especially after watching friends and class-
-
·mates graduate and move on. "I was close 
with the class of 2006, but I really had no 
interaction with my new graduating class," 
says Frandsen. 
Austin 'Pulsipher BK '12 is currently 
serving a mission in Taiwan, and although 
he has yet to rejoin the Yale community, he 
already has misgivings about what it will 
entail: "I am scared that I won't know how 
to speak fluid English in a seminar at Yale 
and that my essay writing skills went to 
trash," Pulsipher writes in an e-m;:til from 
Taipei. ''And I am not in the football shape 
that I was before my mission." 
Swett was jarred when his 
ootball coach yelled at him . 
on his second day back. '1 was 
like, 'Why is he yelling at me? 
That's not very Christian o 
h . ,, 
tm. 
His fears are prescient. Rejoining the 
Yale football team after two years, Swett. 
was jarred when his coach yelled at him on 
his second day back. ''A mission is about 
everyone trying to uplift each other," says 
Swett, "and I was like, 'Why is he yelling 
at me? That's no't very Christian of him.'" 
The first Yale paper Swett wrote upon re-
turning was only five pages long, but he 
says that he wrote three drafts and e-mailed 
one to his mother for editing before he felt 
confident enough to hand it in. He'd gone 
two years without writing a single paper. 
In some ways, the mission life was easi-
er, he says. At Yale in the spring, he worried 
about packing, about storing his belong-
ings for the summer, about one last p~per, 
about finding a job. ''As a ·missionary, the 
only thing I worried about was 'Who can I 
help today, and how?"' he says. 
, 
It's an experience familiar to Smith and 
Syphus. Answering questions about their 
mission experience, they comment that it's 
unnerving to spend so much time talking 
about themselves when they're so used to 
focusing on the needs of others. "I'm moti-
vated by something much bigger than my-
self-
eternity," Smith says. "My message 
is to prepare people for life after death. If 
we don't hit the streets, 140,000 people in 
New Haven won't have the restored gospel 
of Jesus Christ. It's much easier to moti-
vate yourself to get out of bed if yo:u're not 
21 



**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Pria Anand**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
22 
just doing it for you, but for others." 
IN HIGH SCHOOL, Jenna Felici ES '08 was 
one of those "others". "It was difficult to 
start coming to the church at Yale, because 
no one here could have guessed that I had 
just joined the Mormon Church eight 
months earlier," she says. "I hadn't gone to 
church my whole life." 

With a Catholic father and a mother 
who had lapsed from Mormonism because 
of her husband's opposition to it, Felici 
followed her parents to churches of a host 
of different denominations, but says that 
it was only when she attended a Mormon 
church with her maternal grandparents 
. 
that she felt "something special.'J She be- · 
gan meeting with missionaries and think-
ing about joining the Church. Because of 
her father's disapproval, she had to sneak 
out of her house at 5:50 a.m., before her -
·parents awoke, to attend 6 a.m. seminary 
classes at the local Mormon church. 

At the end of high school, Felici was 
baptized with her family 
father includ-
ed 
in attendance. When she started her 
freshman year at Yale, she knew .she want-
ed to serve a mission herself, which she 
has now scheduled for · December 2008, 
before she will attend medical school. She 
is working full-time as a medical assistant 
in a dermatology clinic, and because her 
parents won't contribute to her· mission-
ary stipend, families in Felici's home ward 
have offered to make up the difference. 

"In some ways, I'm like the people I will 
teach 
they, too, may have families telling 
them it's wrong," she says. "It helps when 
someone has experienced the same thing 
as you. It gives people hope. Some people 
might take my words differently, because I 
made that choice for mysel£" 

THAYNE · STODDARD, who will leave 'next 
summer to b~gin his mission, has strug-
gled with his faith in the past and does not 
share Felici's confidence in proselytizing. 

"I don't know how to share my own be-
liefs without forcing them down peoples' 
throats, which I absolutely do not want," 
he says. "I love the Church and would love 
to share my faith, but I don't think I have 
the right as a person to believe that my 
Church is the only right Church." 

Stoddard says he can hope only to ex-
pose himself to others' faiths 
and oth-
ers to Mormonism 
in a positive way 
throughout the course of his mission. "My 
concerns have been put to rest by the ba-
sic principle of faith, and the belief that 
my family and I will be taken care of," he 
says. 

Swett, for his part, found that changing 
himself was just as important as chang-
ing others. His experience with one fam-
ily whom he met during the second year 
of his mission particularly affected him. 
. He visited their house two or three times 
a week over the course of seven months. 

"They really opened their home to me," 
. he says. "It was the closest I have ever felt 
to being in a family other than my own." 
Both parents and all three daughters were 
baptized, which he describes as the proto-
typical mission success, but "that wasn't 
what mattered" for Swett. 

What did matter was that he felt a de-
gree of responsibility toward the family. 
They had made drastic changes in their 
lives in order to join the Church, giving up 
coffee and wine and paying tithes. "Most 
of all, I felt a responsibility to teach only 
things I felt a personal testimony about," 
he says, "because I believe in an afterlife 
and that these things will someday mat-
ter. , 

What also mattered was a feeling Swett 
experienced one day in their kitchen before 
their baptisms. He found himself humbled 
by this family, humbled at the thought of 
teaching them about religion. ''As a family, 
they already embodied the love and good-
ness that God wants," he says. "Who was I 
to be teaching them?" 


Pria Anand is a junior in Berkeley 
College. 
THE NEW JOURNAL 


**Page number(s): 23-24**

It's 1:45 p.m. on a Wednesday afternoon, 
and Alexis Wilcox is leading twelve high-
schoolers balancing five-pound medicine 
balls in their hands up a large hill. Stu-
dents who'd rather play hooky than suffer 
the haul may find themselves making a 6 . 
a.m. "sunrise hike" the next morning 
no 
student in Ms. Wilcox's class gets away 
without making up for an absence. She 
tolerates neither tardiness nor poor disci-
pline. Each student has exactly three min-
utes to get dressed in athletic clothes, and 
even the slightest infraction is punished. 

At the beginning of each academic year, 
Ms. Wilcox's students sign a contract in-
cluding the key clause: "YOU WILL BE-
HAVE." Needless to say, Wilcox is serious 
about her course iri Physical Education at 
Common Ground Charter High School, 
but that doesn't faze senior Latelia Bunch, 
who insists that her authoritarian teacher 
is "a really cool person." As Bunch ex-
plains, "It's really intense. Whether it's rain 
or shine, you're going outside." 

Wilcox is exhibit A for charter school 
advocates who see schools like Common 
September 2008 

Ground as an exciting new approach to 
public education, sanctioned and paid for 
by the public school system but free of its 
bureaucratic hurdles. Smaller than regular 
public schools and run by a "governing 
board" of teachers, parents, and adminis-
tJ~tors, charter schools were initially con-
ceived as a solution to educational under-
performance in public schools. Connecti-
cut adopted charter legislation in 1997 _ ~ 
and has since built 18 charter schools 
throughout the state, three of them in 
New Haven. 

Common Ground's unconventional 
ethos, which could never be supported 
in a regular public school, centers on an 
expansive definition of the word "environ-
mentalism." Oliver Barton, the school's 
founding director, explains that Common 
Ground's approach to nature "isn't nec-
essarily forestry or global warming, but 
using the local community and physical 
environment as a classroom for teach-
ing." Although teachers still tailor classes 
to state testing standards, the curriculum 
at Common Ground is designed to spur 
~ ·.-
.-;;., 
"\:· 
both environmental consciousness and a 
commitment to the city in which its stu-
dents live. 


"We're talking about the place," says 
Joel Tolman, who has taught history and 
social studies at Common Ground for five 
years. "New Haven is an incredibly rich 
learning community, and our students can · 
explore it on the city buses." So while oth-
er New Haven students study geometry, 
Common Ground's pupils map the angles 
of architecture throughout the city. In-
stead of a cut-and-dry biology· Class, they 
take a class in biodiversity, plotting local 
data on charts and graphic models. 

Common Ground's approach 
to nature ''isn't necessarily for-
estry or global warming, "Bar-
ton explains, "but using the 
local community and physical 
a classroom 
environment as 
for teaching. " 


Though reputed among New Haven 
youth as "the school where kids chase 
chickens all day," Common Ground stu-
dents don't just plant strawberries and dig 
up potatoes for credit (though both garden 
tasks are part of the curriculum). The cur-
riculum .is rigorous enough that 90 percent 
of the school's graduating class matricu-
lates to college: 

The high-achieving nature of the Com-
mon Ground student body should not be 
surprising, given that the school, like many 
of its charter cousins, . was planned and 
founded by teachers. As Barton explains, 
the Connecticut school board wasn't al-
ways enthusiastic about their plans, and 
it was difficult to sell the program to kids 
who had never been hiking before. By 
February of 1997, though, the board had 
come around and approved the proposal 
for Common Ground. Seven months later, 
the school opened its doors. "It was like 
building an airplane while you're flying 
it," Barton recalls. "But it was an exciting 
plane to be flying. We were living on raw 
" 
energy. 

That energy continues to . drive Com-
mon Ground's. unusually dedicated facul-
ty. Because the school runs itself with little 
interference from the State, its survival de-
pends on the above-and-beyond efforts of 
teachers like Wilcox and Tolman. Though 
the average Common Ground teacher 
makes over five thousand dollars less each 
year than other New Haven teachers, the 
school's faculty and staff pride themselves 
on knowing the name of every student in 
school by the third week of classes. Some 
take on other responsibilities as well, such 
as leading extracurricular. programs, help-
ing out with administrative paperwork, or 
participating in public outreach: A few of-
fer job training to students or work at the 
school's summer camp. Others help match 
students to social services around the city. 

Each year, teachers run a commencement 
ceremony called "Step-Up," during which 
they tell personalized stories about each -
. graduate. And that hard work seems to pay 
off as one student says, "You can talk to a 
teacher like they're your friend." 

These unusual faculty members are at-
tracted, in part, by Common Ground's 
unique history and alternative mission. 
Ten years ago, the West Rock park in 
which Common Ground now stands was 
a trash-heap, a makeshift dump when the 
nearby Hamden Waste and Recycling Fa-
cility was closed. The park authority was 
eager for change and welcomed Common 
Ground's plans. Early on, "part of our 
work was just making the park a useable 
space again," explains Barton. 

Yet even with an innovative curricu-
lum, involved faculty, and an apparently 
. happy student body 
"it gives you some-
thing normal public schools couldn't give 
·. you," notes Bunch, a senior 
Common 
Ground and its fellow charter schools are 
not without their critics. Stephen T. Cas-
sano, the former mayor of Manchester and 
a prominent member of the Connecticut 
Coalition for Justice in Education Fund-
ing ( CCJEF), claims that charter schools 
are merely private schools usurping public 
school funding. "Unfortunately, educatio~ 
spending remains a zero-sum game, and 
charter school gains mean further public 
school losses," CCJEF stated in a 2006 
testimony to the Connecticut Education 
Committee. Cassano faults charter schools 
Common Ground students garden, hatch chickens, and hike for credit. 



**Charter Schools: A Mixed Blessing**
**Author: Kate Selker**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
for their ability to skirt the rules and not 
• 
bother with expensive special education 
classes. "If a kid acts up in the charter 
schools, you throw them out," he explains. 
"You can't do that in the public school 
system." Not only do charter schools pull 
funds from traditional public schools, Cas-
sano contends, but they deplete human re-
sources as well, attracting the most highly 
motivated students and involved parents 
in the city. This phenomenon, he says, of-
ten contributes to racial imbalances within 
charter schools. 
Cassano -aults charter schools 
or their ability to skirt. the 
rules and not bother with 
special education 
expenstve 
classes. 

But Cassano's anti-charter argument, 
while common enough, fails to tell the 
whole story. 88 percent of Common 
Ground students are minorities, a num-
ber similar to those of New Haven's non-
charter public schools: Wilbur Cross and 
Hill House High School educate 90 and 
98 percent minorities, respectively. Com-
mon Ground does possess a devoted par-
ent population, and its student body of-
ten arrives at the school better-prepared 
than their Wilbur Cross or Hill House 
peers 
students who end up in a charter 
school are 20 percent more likely to have 
attended pre-kindergarten programs than 
their public, non-charter school peers. But 
state statistics from 2002 show that char-
ter school parents participate in "limited" 
volunteering at their children's schools, if 
at all. In fact, the charter school popula-
tion tends to be of lower income and lower 
family education history than that of regu-
lar public schools, and charter schools re-
ceive less per-pupil funding than their reg-
ular counterparts. But Tom Murphy, the 
state's educational spokesman, insists that 
of all Connecticut parents, those consid-
ering charter schools are among the most 
invested in their children's education. 
According to the Connecticut De-
partment of Education in 2002, "charter 
schools were not having an easily discernible 
positive or negative impact on traditional 
public schools"; if anything, competition 
between charter and local district schools 
September 2008 
. ' 
Having helped create the school, Common Ground facutly members are highly devoted to their 
students. 
might have led to mutual progress. Tom 
Murphy maintains that "there is a place for 
charter schools ..... but they're not for ev-
eryone." Connecticut's 18 charters are slim 
pickings compared to states like Arizona or 
Florida, which have twenty times as many. 
Murphy notes that charters are necessary 
for "choice" in education, though he ac-
knowledges the exclusion inherent in these 
smaller schools. While charter schools can 
cull the best students from a pool of ap-
plicants, "neighborhood schools have the ~ 
responsibility to educate all children who 
walk through their doors." 

Because property taxes pay for public 
schools, Connecticut's wealthiest children 
will always be at an advantage. With teach-
ers in Greenwich making $20,000 more 
yearly than their New Haven counterparts, 
the achievem.ent gap in low-income com-
munities is unsurprising. Last year, just 
over 60 percent of New Haven eighth-
graders scored "at/above proficiency" on 
the math portion of the Connecticut Mas-
tery Test, as opposed to 90 percent of stu-
dents in the nearby suburb of Branford. 
Common Ground, however, seeks an 
economically diverse student body, and 15 
percent of its students hail from the sub-
urbs. Wilcox, Tolman, Barton, and their 
colleagues hope that in comprehending 
the effect of "place" on their lives and edu-
cations, their students will be able to estab-
lish a "common ground" across economic, 
racial, and geographic lines. 
TN 
Kate Selker; a sophomore in Davenport 
College, is an associate editor ojTNJ. 
25 


**Starbucks Romances**
**Author: Aditi Ramakrishnan**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

While you, dear reader, were NYC-DC/ 
Euro/ Mrica/ Asia/South America-tripping, 
I was left in New Haven to brood on my 
withering relationship. I had dated a boy 
until June, when he had graduated and 
moved to California. During his one trip 
back East, we walked across the Brook-
lyn Bridge and broke up. I spent the rest 
of the summer single, and it didn't help 
that I could see the roof of his old house 
from the window of my summer sublet on 
Edgewood Avenue. Riding his roommate's 
ricke;.ty red· bike tlown Chapel Street and 
staring at a computer all day ("research," 
they call it) only facilitated my angst. 

But it was summer, I needed to study 
for the MCAT, and my wallowing had to 
end. Unfortunately, during the swelter-
ing New Haven summer, libraries kick 
students out by sunset and cafes dose by 
twilight. Only the sterile lights of Star-
bucks beckon to the tired, the poor, and 
26 
By Aditi Ramakrishnan 
the internet-deprived masses yearning to 
breathe free air conditioning until 11:30 
p~m. By mid-July, I found myself shell-
ing out crumpled bills for the cheapest tea 
merely to sit and study. 

One Monday night, Starbucks was 
hopping with students, artists, and home-
less people alike, with no empty table to 
be found .. I spotted two souls engaged in 
earnest conversation: a boy and girl sit-
ting at two separate little tables. I pointed 
them out to my companion, who kindly 
asked if the two could sit together. After 
much head-tilting and questioning (Her: 
' 
''Are you sure my Orgo book will fit on the 
table?"; Him: "I suppose I can place these 
papers on my lap and read ... "), the girl 
scooched over. I smiled guiltily at them 
as I sat down, realizing I'd seen them here 
before. She was that girl with the I-smell-
something-awful face and the too-tight 
ponytail who was perpetually trudging 
into Starbucks and collapsing at a table 
with her heavy textbook. He was that boy 
in the plaid shirt who read papers from a 
briefcase and stared too much 

By mid-ju~ I found mysel 
shelling out crumpled bills for 
the cheapest tea merely to sit 
and study. 

.. 
Until now, they had sat apart. Over the 
next two hours, while I tried to plumb the 
depths of the kidney's nephron system, the 
girl complained about lab grading while 
the boy nodded sympathetically and gave 
pointers about the MCAT. I tried to listen 
in, but all I could catch was- that he went 
to Yale's graduate school (so he took the 
MCAT for fun?). Taunted by the kidneys 
in my book and Starbucks' Frank Sinatra 
THE NEW JOURNAL 

soundtrack, I feebly walked out. 

The next night,. I spotted Granola. 
Browned and muscular, glossy hair in a 
ponytail, a few rings and hemp bracelets, 
reflective sunglasses. When I saw him, I 
dreamt of mountaineering and camping 
trips. I had glimpsed him striding around 
the medical campus, sometimes discreetly 
donning a doctor's white coat. Granola 
liked to study at Starbucks too. He espe..: 
dally favored the large desk in the middle 
of the room, the one with the blue lamps. 
Today, I sat at a table nearby with a friend 
who gleefully slid her eyes from his ebony 
locks to me. As soon as two seats at the 
central table freed up, she pranced over 
with me in tow. Predictably, she left short-
ly thereafter, leaving me, Granola, and 
my MCAT book. I glanced up between 
scanning diagrains of the kidney. He read 
with intense fury and wore a Medecins 
Sans Frontieres T-shirt. My heart fluttered. 
An hour later, as he stood up to leave, 
he murmured, "Good luck with that." I 
stammered and asked about his shirt. Still 
shining with intensity, he moved his hands 
gracefully as he talked about years spent 
working with Doctors Without Borders 
and UNICEF. Our two-minute conver-
saon stirred in my MCAT-stuffed brain, 
inspiring many a daydream until the next 
evening at Starbucks. 

Only this time, he sat at a window table 
with his papers 
and a girl. She smiled 
sweetly and he gazed disgustingly (in love). 
Though two feet of table separated them, 
they bent towards each other, hanging on 
to every word and loving glance. I was left 
alone again to brood over my books. The 
plaid-dad grad student in the far back 
looked up when the bitter pre-med walked 
· in and dropped her textbook onto a table. 
He quickly glanced down. She looked at 
him. While she bought coffee, he casually 
walked by the counter (Him: "Oh, hello! 
Didn't see you there!"; Her: "Hey, what 
a surprise!") Ten minutes later, the coffee 
cooled as love simmered between them. 
1he plaid-clad grad student in 
the far back looked up when 
the .bitter pre-med walked 
in and dropped her te~tbo()k 
onto a table. 
-
rames, -

**Rock 'n' Roll at Yale: A Fragmented Scene**
**Author: Laura Zax**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
Rock lives
or so I've heard.
But let's face it: Original rock 'n' roll-
and all alternative music, for that matter,
from pop to punk, emo to electronic
is as
good as dead on the Yale campus. Naming
even a handful ofYale bands (or Yale rock
shows, or Yale alternative music venues) is
harder than getting into Yale. That's not to
say that Yale is a silent campus. Concerts
featuring classical music ensembles and . a
capella groups crowd Yale's extracurricular
calendar. So whatever happened to rock 'n'
roll?


It might be tempting to blame inher-
ent flaws in our generation for a decline in
campus music, much as our parents have
pinpointed everything from our ambition
to our apathy to ~xplain today's supposed
lack of campus activis~. But look no far-
ther than Yale's Connecticut cousin Wes-
leyan, whose Middletown campus is an ex-
perimental music hub, to dispel this theory.
Wesleyan junior Ben Bernstein describes
a "climate ... [of] appreciation and open-
ness to new music." Bernstein transferred
to Wesleyan from Colby College
where
he says he had formed "basically the only
band on campus"
specifically because he
had heard "how great [Wesleyan's] music
. "
scene ts.


The most recent Wesleyan posterchild
was the duo MGMT (The Management),
whose catchy but fresh synth tune "Time
to Pretend" was this year's de facto indie
anthem. The indie afro-pop sensation
Vampire Weekend, formed two years ago
at Columbia University, just found main-
stream success in the ample airtime their
song "Cape Cod Kwassa Kwassa" enjoyed
during the Beijing Olympics. As Wes-
leyan and Columbia prove, elite co.llege
campuses can
and should · be sites of
musical experimentation. And Yale Col-
lege, with its creative student body and
its world-class music school, should be no
exception.
Enter Michael Waxman,' Timothy
Dwight junior, the' singer-songwriter-
entrepreneur who very well may be the.
change Yale's alternative music scene has
been waiting for. Waxman is the founder
of the imaginatively named Yale Music
Scene, a new organization committed to
promoting original rock music on campus.
The organization's most significant con-
tribution is its website, Yalemusicscene.
com. The site launched in early spring of
2008 with deliberately little fanfare. "It's
sort of a strawman," says Waxman of the
current site, meaning that it is a blue-
print of sorts for his burgeoning ideas for
Yale's music scene. But Yalemusicscene.
com shows no outward signs of being a
work-in-progress. The site not only looks
professionally rendered
it is. Waxman
convinced buddies from Silicon Valley,
where he relocated for 18 months after his
freshman year in order to co-found an in-
ternet startup company, to design the site.
"It was a low key deal because this is their
passion," he says.


Fragmented and
neglected, Yale's
alternative music
community redefines
battle of the bands
ByLauraZax

The result is a website that is argu-
ably in better shape than the music scene
it promotes. "It makes the music scene
look more legitimate than it really is," says
Ted Gordon '08, co-founder of the music
magazine gunslinger., which was recently
rechristened and reimagined as the glossy-
fronted Volume. The site features cheeky
band biographies, photos, a forum for
listing upcoming shows, and even a music
player that allows users to download Eli
originals. From the logo's iPod-ad-esque
silhouette of a badass with a badass guitar
down to the trendy font of even the small-
est headings, the site's graphics are flaw-
lessly professional. But bells and whistles
do not a music scene make. The fact that,
in order to populate his site with content,
Waxman had to organize events
such as
last spring's Party Like A Rockstar, which
featured performances by several of the
ten bands included on the website
is a
case m pmnt.
Rock 'n' roll has always iden-
tified as the enemy of the es-
tablishment, and Yale is, well
the establishment.
It's fitting that the home of Yale's mu-
sic scene should be on the World Wide
'
Web, not only because of the central role
the Internet plays in music distribution
in the 21st Century, but also because of


--- Page 29 ---

the centralizing role cyberspace can play
to compensate for . fragmented physical
space. In fact, the website's most promis-
ing potential is as a common forum where
a scattered music scene could achieve some
degree of unity, however small and howev-
er cyber. After all, the essence of a "scene"
is a group of people coming together be-
cause of a shared interest~ A music scene
demands the interaction of musicians both
with one another and with their fans. But
at Yale, alternative music is disjointed by
a residential college system that can make
the logistics for staging a show
or even
just a rehearsal
prohibitively burden-
some. "You can try to get into the DMCA
.
[Digital Media Center for the Arts] · or
try to get into a college that has whatever
equipment you're looking for, but there's
nothing centralized," Gordon laments.
During his freshman year, Waxman
also experienced the frustration of Yale's
fragmented music scene. After succeeding
. in reserving the Silliman common room
for a show, he learned that finding a venue
was only half the battle. "It was such an
ordeal," he remembers.
While every college has a music prac-
tice room equipped with a piano, only
Calhoun, Silliman, and Timothy Dwight
have drum kits. (A handful of others are
home to students' personal drum kits dur-
ing the academic year, but whether any old
Eli can use them is at the discretion of their
owners.) Silliman and TD are the only col-
leges with recording studios. Though the
studios can be reserved by students from
any college, Yalies are denied access to the
equipment and practice spaces of any but
their own residential colleges. So if you
want your rock band to have percussion,
make sure you get a drummer in Cal-
houn, Silliman, or TD. Speakers are an-
other issue. "The only sound system is in
Calhoun's basement, and getting it out is
basically the bottleneck for setting up con-
certs," says Waxman. The Undergraduate
Organizations Funding Committee owns
a PA available to any student group, but
it's a coveted resource. "It's really hard to
reserve
every organtzatton wants to re-
serve it," says Gordon.
While residential college red tape is a
perennial problem for bands at Yale, con-
struction tape will prove an additional
stumbling block this year. The one de-
pendably accessible venue for alternative
music shows is the Calhoun Cabaret, an
September 2008
intimate space in the basement of Calhoun
which can open up to incorporate the. But-
tery space for larger, louder shows. It's a
favorite partly because a drum kit and PA
system are housed just down the hall in
Calhoun's music practice room, and partly
because it's managed by the inspiring Da-
vid Kant, a senior musician whose band
Lady Lovelace and the Calculator Death
Machine is the most prolific and promi-
nent current Yale band.
During Calhoun's renovation, the ex-
perimental music scene will be exiled from
its only reliable home and will have to im-
provise. College common rooms and din-
ing halls are potential venues, but hosting
shows in spaces not designed for them is
a logistical nightmare, and it's often a bu-
reaucratic one, too. "People don't want to
have rock concerts [in their colleges] be-
cause they assume there's going to be beer
and it's going to be loud and destructive,"
Gordon explains. House shows are anoth-
er possibility; Wesleyan's music scene, for
instance, is intimately tied to off-campus
houses.
However, because off-campus
housing at Yale is anything but institu-
tional, there's no guarantee that houses
that have been hosts to the alternative
music scene in the past
1 09 Howe, for
instance
will fall into the hands of ten-
ants who want to have the responsibility of
carrying on a tradition of loud music.
That's not to mention the fact that off-
campus shows do not benefit from Yale's
protective stamp of approval. On the Fri-
day that the class of2012 moved in, these-
mester's-first rock concert
a performance
-by Great Caesar and the Go-Getters at a
house on Elm Street
was shut down by
the cops only two songs into the setlist~
But Waxman has faith that the music~
scene will ultimately secure the institution-
al infrastructure it needs. At an event last
year, he wound up brushing shoulders with
Peter Salovey, Dean of Yale College and a
musician himsel£ Waxman broached the
subject ofYale's nearly non-existent music
scene with Salovey, who was effusive about
the effect of Stanford's music scene on his
own college experience. From Salovey,
Waxman learned of a proposed music cafe
at the site . of the new colleges. Waxman
was delighted, but hardly satisfied. "That's
a 2015 thing," he says. "Their time frame
is on a much larger scale than mine."
In the meantime, the music scene could
benefit from even the most modest shared
space and equipment. Forget, for now, a
concert hall: The Yale music scene needs
a. closet. Indeed, Wesleyan's music scene
. thrives · in part because of such a closet-
" a little shed," in Bernstein's words, that
stores amps, speakers, and PAs. The shack
also serves as the humble headquarters of
Wesleyan's Sound Co-op, a group that
exemplifies the type of centralized and in-
stitutionally supported organization that
Yale's music scene lacks and that Waxman
hopes to create. The Sound Co-op is exac.t-
ly what it sounds like: a team of students
trained as technicians who run sound at all
student shows, alternative and otherwise.
What's more, the administration
at a
school whose endowment is a mere 3 per-
cent ofYale's
pays the students to do so.
Such administrative support exists at Yale
for other undergraduate artistic endeavors.
Theater thrives here and the a capella scene
is, if anything, a little too vibrant.
Perhaps alternative music is simply too
lowbrow for an institution as historically
elite as Yale. The three R' s of the alterna-
tive music ethos are Rock, Rebellion, and
Revolution. Rock 'n' roll has always iden-
tified as the enemy of the establishment,
and Yale is, well, the establishment. It's
not surprising, then, that, excluding Bud-
dy Holly, rock's nerdiest founding father,
the purveyors and promoters of alternative
music have looked very little like the four-
eyed, penny-loafered types who end up at
Yale. Three-fourths of the Beatles didn't go
to college, and 100 percent of them never
graduated: The coursework that earned
Sir Paul's honorary degree from Yale last
spring was a lifetime of creating rock mu-
sic. In fact, perhaps the most famous alter-
native singer, songwriter, and innovator to
come out ofYale made nothing more than
a pitstop on campus: David Longstreth,
the mastermind behind the -experimental
group The Dirty Projectors, dropped out
ofYale before completing a B.A. in music
in order to launch his successful indie ca-
reer. Hence the argument that Yale's lack
of support for alternative music is exactly
what the scene needs: "Would you really
want it that the administration would em-
brace an alternative music culture?" Wax-
man asks rhetorically. "You can't have a su-
perhero without its foil. It's a relationship
created out of contrast."
• TN
Laura Zax, a junior in Silliman College,
29


--- Page 30 ---

**Jonathan Edwards Students, We Salute You**
**Author: Gary Haller**
**Page number(s): 30**

JONATHAN EDWARDS STUDENTS, WE SALUTE YOU

On August 27, 2008, hundreds of young Yale men and women returned to New Haven to find a home. Instead, like sinners in the hands of
an angry God, they found a place of turmoil. Some lost power, some lost boxes, and some were even exiled to the cold halls of the Omni Hotel, for
from friends andfrat parties. To each proud Spider who bravely stayed on campus, who wakes up each morning to the pounding of construction,
and who sleeps cold and dirty at night because they cannot wash with hot water, the staff of 7he New journal sends its thoughts and its wireless.
we have compiled some missives from their courageous leader during this difficult time in order to commemorate their struggles.
TUEDAY, AUGUST 5TH
Dear Members of the JE Classes of 09,
10 and 11,

I assume that you are getting organized
to return to your JE home so I thought
I should give you a heads up, i.e., not all
of the construction is going to be finished
when you get here. As things now stand, we
expect each of you to be able to move into
the room that you have chosen ...

What this also means is that they will
have just laid down the courtyard sod and
we will have to be protective of it for the
first couple of weeks after you return. I will
try to give you a more specific update be-
fore August 27th-a lot can change in three
weeks, I have discovered.

MoNDAY, AuGUST 2 5
12:15 AM

Dear JE Students,
I will probably be sending you more
than the usual move-in messages. This one
is about desks and the courtyard grass.
DESKS IN YOUR ROOMS: on Friday
I discovered that we are short 60 new desks
for JE rooms. The desks were to be assem-
bled and shipped overnight so I hope they
will be in your rooms on Wednesday or Fri-
day (August 27 or 28). Thus, I am request-
ing that you NOT bother me about your
missing desk until after Friday 29 August,
but invite you to if your desk is still missing
(and I have no idea which 60 rooms will be
without a desk).
COURTYARD GRASS: Of course, the
weather is likely to be nice and you will not
be into homework for your first few days
back on campus--an ideal time for a game
in the courtyard. However, they have just
laid the sod and it needs a little time to take
hold before being walked on so I ask that
you stay off the grass for two weeks, that
is, PLEASE DO NOT PLAY ON THE
COURTYARD GRASS BETWEEN 27
AUGUST AND 10 SEPTEMBER. Imag-
ine you are at Oxford or Cambridge where
they don't let you walk on the grass all
year long.

9:33PM

The master's Office will continue to be
open Saturday and Sunday ...

You may also. key my cell phone number
into your address book, but if you use it to
ask about a key, you better pretty well have ·.
exhausted all other options and be stand-
ing naked in the courtyard (and then I am
going to have to ask some questions about
how you carry your cell phone).

9:46PM
Well, the good news is that we have sod
in the courtyard (that you can only· look at
until mid-September); the bad news is that
all students will be moving in on Wednes-
day 27 August. Fifteen of your peers and
Erin Walsh (resident graduate afffiliate) will
be living in the Omni Hotel until 20 Sep-
tember.

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 2 7

If you discover a problem in your suite,
room, or elsewhere in the Collge, please
send it to me by reply. Here is some general
information. . .

3) We have had some problems with
hot water, i.e., twice it has been at best just
warm and had to be adjusted. It is a very
weak promise again tonight BUT PLEASE
TO NOT EMAIL ME ABOUT THIS BE-
CAUSE I WILL GET THEM TO WORK
ON IT EARLYTOMORROW
4) Plese keep entryway and suite doors
locked.
5) And please stay off the grass.

FRIDAY, AuGusT 29
Dear JE students,
The electrical contractor is ready to in-
stall a portion of the new circuit breakers
today, and will require shutting down the
power for D entry and C entryways. THIS
OUTAGE WILLOCCUR FROM 2 PM
TO APPROXIMATLEY 7 PM TODAY,
FRIDAY 29 AUGUST.

The remaining breakers will be installed
tomorrow, SATURDAY 30 AUGUST, and
will require SHUTTING DOWN THE
POWER FROM 9 AM TO 5 PM to entries
A, _B, C, D, E, F, G, H, AND I.

SATURDAY, AUGUST 3 0
Several of you have told me that your
cable is not working, but I keep forgetting
to give you the bad news--it probably will
not be turned on before Wednesday of next
week. Sorry. You are just going to have to .
catch up on your reading or visit your off-
campus friends.

SUNDAY, AUGUST 3 I
I am still getting quite a few messages
about missing boxes, missing furniture,
things that need to be repaired, etc. PLEASE
BE AS EXPLICIT AS YOU CAN, I.E.,
HOW
BOXES, AND INCLUDE
YOUR ROOM NUMBER AND CELL
PHONE NUMBER. Yes, I can look up
both, but why do you wish to waste my
time doing that for you?
Thanks for your consideration and your
patience with this move-in.

TuESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2
Starting tomorrow (September 3rd),
construction workers will arrive at 8:00 pm
to check in and get organized. They will be
instructed not to do any work that will cause
noise and generally move around and talk
quietly until 9:00 am--and then the sawing
and hammering will begin but by that time
you will all"be in class. Right?

This might not work out ideally on
the first day so wait until about Friday to
complain again. Of course, if you really are
roused from sleep between 6-6:30, you can
let me know right away. And when you do
complain, be specific: who did what where
and at what time exactly so we can get ahold
of the guy. Thanks.
-Gary Haller, Master of JE
THE NEW JOURNAL



**Advertisement: Ahimsa's Restaurant**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Tired of same old, artery clogging, 
m'ind nutnbing, restaurant foods? 
You're going to love us 
Ahimsa's restaurant and tapas bar offers 
Zagat-rated food, superb service. enfightened 
atmosphere, and gorgeous presentation. 
Our food is free of all animal-based products 
and by-products as well as trans fats, refined 
sugars, artificial sweeteners, preservatives 
and pesticides. 
Naturally low in fat, our food has a hearty 
protein base and is high in fiber. Fresh herbs, 
spices and sea salt add a variety of gourmet 
flavors, and raw agave nectar (diabetic 
friendly) is used to tastefully sweeten our 
food. 
We support organic and fair-trade products 
and local farmers using sustainable farming 
techniques. 
We create unique dishes to please every 
palate, and compose menus that run the 
gamut from old favorite to new creations 
Kosher supervision by Kinahara 
for an arnazing c 
call a · , sa for reservation 
203, 786~477 4 
vvww .a. nnsa1nc.com 
up to $25 off maximum 
With this coupon 
(annot be combined with other offer or discount 
10cw, 9ratuity ts oddtd to prt-dlstount total 
1227 Chapel street, New Haven, CT 06511 
www.ahimsainc. com 
reservation@ahimsainc. com 


