Publication date: April 21, 1989
Volume: 21
Issue number: 6


**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: David King
- Editor-in-Chief: Cynthia Cameros
- Business Manager: Malaika Amon
- Managing Editors: Stefanie Syman, Ruth Conniff
- Designer: Stephen Hooper
- Production Manager: Lisa Silverman
- Photography Editor: John Kim
- Account Manager: Jodi Lox
- Associate Designer: Ethan Cohen
- Associate Photography Editor: Hank Hsu
- Associate Production Manager: Lisa Gluskin
- Circulation Manager: Chris Warfield
- Subscription Manager: Adrienne Lo
- Staff: Andrea Assarat, Janet Chung, Eric Fisher, Jennifer Fleissner, Jeanne Frantz, David Greenberg, Julie Hantman, Jennifer Pitts, Josh Plaut, Motoko Rich, Margo Schlanger, Jaeyong So, Florence Williams


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
NewsJournal - 4
Features - 8
Livable Solutions - Ellen Katz
Tattoo Uncovered - Josh Plaut
Cultivating Science - Motoko Rich
The Machine Shifts Gears - 26


**Title: WAVE Gallery**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 2**

**Title: Tattoo Uncovered**
**Author: Josh Plaut**
**Page number(s): 12**

Fine art or folic? runs the current debate over tattoo's place in the art world. In the midst 
of it all, three loc4l tattoo studws leave their marie . . . permanently.


**Title: Cultivating Science**
**Author: Motoko Rich**
**Page number(s): 18**

Historically, Yale has lcept the sciences separate from the rest of the college. With changes 
in admissWns policy and distn.butwnal requirements, administrators and professors are 
nurtun·ng an environment more open to sciena students and their discipline. The change 
has triggered some heated reactions among faculty.


**Title: The Machine Shifts Gears**
**Page number(s): 26**

Mayqr Biagio DtLieto's retirement has l¢t New Haven open for political change. 
History Department Lecturer John McKioigan urges voters to demand that the 
candidaus discuss the problems with DiLieto's administratwn and propose solutwns to 
the ci9J's problems.



**Title: New Journal**
**Author: Chris Warfield**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
N ew~J ournal 
Young Music Masters 
High-pitched 
tones 
and evenly-
executed beats drift out over College 
Street. These sounds emanate from the 
instruments of a hard-working group 
of graduate students at the Yale School 
of Music. But for a small minority of 
the school's 150 students, the term 
"graduate student" does not seem quite 
applicable. Four violinists and four 
cellists practicing with the rest of the 
group came here directly from high 
school. 

These 
students 
are part of a 
program 
for gifted high school 
graduates called the Certificate in 
Performance, a three-year tract within 
the School of Music. Yale's music 
school 
does 
not normally admit 
undergraduates. As a result, many 
talented players are lost to other 
conservatories like Juilliard and 
Curtis. Professors at Yale started the 
Certificate program because they 
wanted to begin working with younger 
musicians in order to mold their 
techniques. 

Applicants to the Yale Certificate 
Program undergo a rigorous admis-
sions process, including a series of 
taped 
and live 
auditions. 
After 
entering the program, students find 
that the intensity continues. Besides 
taking private lessons with famous 
faculty, Certificate students perform in 
the Yale Philharmonia, chamber en-
sembles) and master classes. They are 
also required to take one additional 
academic course. In contrast to the 
grading scale in Yale College where a 
grade of D- or above is adequate for 
. credit, the Certificate program only 
considers a B- or higher as a passing 
mark. The intensity of the program, 
and its reputation, leave Certificate 
graduates well-prepared for pro-
fessional careers in music. 

Most of these young mustctans 
already have a lot of performing 
experience when they arrive at Yale. 
Alexis Gerlach, the your)gest member 
of the Certificate Program, began 
+ The New Journal/April 21, 1989 
playing the cello at age six. At age 
eighteen she has performed in Brazil, 
Taiwan, England, and Italy. 

Gerlach came to Yale, like most of 
the Certificate students, for the high-
caliber faculty. She currently works 
with world-famous cellist Aldo Perisot. 
Another reason many students choose 
Yale's program over a conservatory is 
the chance to live in a university 
community. "I can't do only music," 
said violinist Katie Bauer. "As much as 
I love it, it is not the absolute be-ali 
and end-all of everything." 

But living with the graduate 
musicians in Helen Hadley Hall, the 
institutional-looking dormitory on 
Temple Street, can be lonely. Some 
Certificate students say they · feel left 
out of the experience of normal 
undergraduates. "I walked 
into 
Silliman and was struck by how 
different it was," said Bauer. "I really 
wish I could know more people my 
age." 

Having completed the Yale pro-
gram, Certificate students usually go 
on to obtain a bachelor's degree at 
another institution. Afterwards, they 
can petition the School of Music 
faculty to turn their certificate into a 
master's degree. Jason Rubinstein, 
who graduated from the program in 
1988, is working with Stephen Epstein, 
a leader in the 
field of record 
engineering, at CBS Masterworks. He 
is simultaneously completing his 
bachelor's degree at New York 
University. Bauer hopes to enroll in 
Yale College after she finishes the 
Certificate program, 
and Gerlach 
plans to attend a conservatory. Both 
want a career in music performance, 
Bauer in chamber music and Gerlach 
as a concert soloist. 

• 
-Chris Warfield


**Title: Library Renewal**
**Author: David Grttnbtrg**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

Library Renewal 
The new ORBIS computer system has 
gradually affected the lives of Yale 
library users. But for librarians in the 
back rooms of Sterling Memorial 
Library, it has precipitated several 
immediate changes. 

According to 
Gerry Lowell, Associate University 
Librarian for Technical Services, 
ORBIS has stimulated an administra-
tive reorganization that will result in a 
more efficient acquisition and cata-
loguing process. 

The old arrangement resembles an 
assembly line. As one group of workers 
purchases books from dealers and 
publishers, another group catalogues 
new acquisitions, a job that involves 
determining the books' appropriate 
subject headings and assigning them• . 
their proper call numbers. A final 
group prepares the 
volumes for 
shelving. This whole process entails a 
constaerable amount of typing and 
paperwork that ORBIS will eliminate. 

Within the new system, which 
Sterling is the first large research 
library to adopt, each librarian will 
participate in all aspects of book 
processing. Small clusters of workers, 
organized by subjects such as "social 
sciences" or "English and Northern 
European languages," will handle 
every stage of the process within their 
particular fields. 

Lowell s!lid 
the 
Technical 
Services department 
is 
reorganizing in response to increased 
automation; 
as computers become 
widespread, jobs threaten to grow 
increasingly menial. By emphasizing 
creativity and self-management within 
these new subject teams, Lowell hopes 
to produce a better trained and happier 
workforce. 

According to Robert Killheffer, who 
will lead the eleven-person history 
team. many librarians are moving to 
new jobs. "It's an absolute, total 
change," he said. "We're having large-
scale training eflorts. People in the 
teams are going to leam a whole lot of 
things that they never knew before.• 

Killheffer said the library reorganiza· 
tion will resemble the recent changes at 
Volvo automobile plants, 
where 
workers now participate in all stages of 
car manufacturing. "That's a lot more 
interesting than putting bolt A into nut 


--- Page 5 ---

C," he said. 

In addition to acqumng new tech-
nical skills, library personnel will also 
have to learn how to work with one 
another in the new arrangement. 
"People will have more control over the 
work they do," Killheffer said. "Of 
course, there will have to be adminis-
trative decisions, but those will only be 
a small percentage. Everything else 
will be done collectively." Technical 
Services has brought in consultants to 
lead workshops on group dynamics 
and decision-making. 

Library users will also benefit from 
this administrative overhaul. With 
paperwork and bureaucracy reduced 
to a minimum, the library will be able 
to expand the ORBIS ftles more 
quickly. In addition, because ORBIS 
is connected to all of the library's 
technical service departments and 
research divisions, its users will be able 
to tell what volumes have been 
ordered, what has arrived, and what is 
circulating. 

Lowell admits that Yale was slow to 
adopt ORBIS. "We were one of the last 
kids on the block to go to the 
automated system," he said. But now 
other research libraries are eyeing 
Sterling's pioneering reorganization. 
This 
fall, 
more than 
Yale 
community will be monitoring the 
library's experiment. 

-David Grttnbtrg 


**Title: Baby Talk**
**Author: Adrienne Lo**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Baby Talk 
Twenty-five-month-old Robyn Levine 
gurgles happily as she gazes at the 
television screens. "Look! The bunny 
is gorping the duck! See, the bunny is 
gorping the duck," says a coaxing 
voice. Robyn's eyes dart from one 
screen 
to the other, 
periodically 
focusing on the yellow light bulb in the 
center. A student, peering through a 
small opening above the screens, 
anxiously tries to follow the baby's eyes 
and records the rapid movement by 
pressing hand-held buttons. The "duck 
and 
bunny show" entrances 
yet 
another eager visitor to the Yale Infant 
Language Lab. 

The show is Assistant Professor of 
Psychology Letitia Naigles' newest 
inquiry into infant language 
acquisition. "The question is how 
someone who won't sit still and won't 
follow directions somehow manages to 
learn this incredibly complex thing 
called language," Naigles muses. 

Learning an average of five to ten new 
words a day, a child will have acquired 
a vocabulary of 60,000 words by the 
age of five. Psycholinguists still do not 
fully understand this process. Whereas 
previous language researchers focused 
on production of speech, Naigles 
concentrates on comprehension. "'The 
infants probably understand a great 
deal more than they actually say," she 
explains. Specifically, she examines 
how syntax influences an infant's 
ability to understand individual words. 

N aigles' innovative experiment 
simulates the 
process by which 
children learn verbs. To prepare her 
experiment, Naigles choreographs 
combinations of movements which 
cannot be named with a single existing 
word. 

Next, 
Naigles films 
two 
assistants as they perform her unusual 
aerobic combinatic;ms; one wearing a 
duck costume and the other a bunny 
costume. 

Naigles plays the duck and bunny 
video for the infant, while her taped 
voice introduces nonsense words such 
as "blikking" or "kradding." These 
terms correspond to the movements in 
the video. After the child hears "The 
bunny is kradding the duck!" several 
times and watches the corresponding 
two-part motion, the displays change. 
On one screen the duck and bunny 
make arm circles in unison. On the 
other the bunny pushes the duck's 
head. The taped voice then asks the 
infant "Where's kradding? 
Find 
kradding!" As the infant looks from 
one screen to the other a hidden 
assistant records the amount of time 
the infant focuses on each screen. 

Using this information, Naigles will 
determine whether the infant has 
understood the new word. 

N aigles bases her research on the 
"preferential looking paradigm", 
developed by Dr. Roberta Golinkoff of 
The New journal/April 21 , 1989 5 


--- Page 6 ---

the University of Delaware and Dr. 
Kathryn 
Hirsh-Pasek of Temple 
University. The paradigm equates 
looking and understanding. Naigles 
uses this model to test her hypothesis 
that if the child understands the 
original sentence, she will have learned 
that "kradding" refers to a causal 
action. She will know that "the bunny 
is kradding the duck" refers to the screen 
'!Vhere the bunny pushes the duck's 
head, and will look at this screen when 
asked "Where's kradding? 
kra4ding!" 

The main advantage of Naigles' 
method is that it requires little active 
participation by the subject . . Her 
technique makes it possible to study 
language acquisition more effectively 
in children with physical handicaps 
and infants. Naigles believes that 
physical and developmental factors 
may prevent children from verbalizing 
as much as they can understand. A 
two-year-old who speaks only in three-
word utterances will respond to much 
more complex sentences. A physical 
handicap also may impair a child's 
ability to speak. By focusing on 
comprehension instead of speech 
production, Naigles avoids demanding 
that infants perform impossible 
linguistic tasks. Researchers at other 
universities use this method to study 
comprehension 
m 
children with 
cerebral palsy. 

Naigles' method also improves upon 
earlier comprehension-based experi-
ments which required infants to act out 
what they heard with toys. Sophis-
ticated video and audio technology 
allows Naigles to set up experiments 
which provide more accurate indi-
cations of an infant's comprehension. 
Having the child act out what she hears 
introduces factors such as fascination 
with the toys she uses, which could 
interfere with the child's ability to 
recreate what she has just heard. "We 
can see more clearly what they know 
about language and sentence structure 
with minimal context," Naigles said. 

In the future, Naigles hopes to 
expand her investigation by 
incorporating a study on infants' 
understanding of passive sentences. 
She also plans to examine the linguistic 
differences between children raised in 
Spanish-speaking households and 
those 
raised 
in English-speaking 
households. 

To find participants for her present 
and future research, Naigles' student 
volunteers look for infants through 
local birth announcements. Once 
contacted, interested families will 
bring their children to Naigles' offices, 
located in the basement of Sheffield-
Sterling-Strathcona Hall. 

Each 
session, which involves both the infant . 
and one 
parent, 
lasts 
about 45 
minutes. Afterwards . Naigles replays 
video 
for the parent while 
explaining its role in her studies. In 
exchange for donating their time .. 
parents may gain insight into the way 
their children ·learn language. The kids 
get a t-shirt emblazoned with the Yale 
crest and the motto "Graduate of Yale 
Infant Studies." 

-Adrienne Lo


**Title: Inventing Fun**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 6**

Inventing Fun 
A child pulls back on a handle, then 
suddenly- thwack- a 
stick snaps 
forward. It strikes a long spring, and 
sends a slow wave travelling back and 
forth. At the Eli Whitney Museum, 
this interactive exhibit invites visitors 
to discover the principles behind 
Guglielmo Marconi's invention of the 
radio. In another exhibit, children see 
the effects of magnetism by drawing 
patterns with a magnet on a plate of 
iron filings. They learn the difference 
between AM and FM radio by exam-
ining transvene waves on 
an 
oscilloscope. A brisk twenty-minute 
walk from the Green up Whitney 
Avenue leads to the museum, which is 
devoted to the history of technology. 
At the former site of Eli Whitney's (YC 
1792) gun factory, this museum en-
courages in today's children the same 


**The Eli Whitney Museum**
**Author: Tony Cahill**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
inventive curiosity that inspired 
Whitney nearly two hundred years 
ago. 

"We focus 
on the history of 
technology but present it in a way Eli 
Whitney would have been interested 
in," said Museum Director William 
Brown. With travelling shows and a 
permanent exhibit on the history of the 
grounds, 
the museum 
offers the 
general public both displays of artifacts 
and hands-on experiments. The: 
museum also acts as a resource for 
schools: over 100 school groups have 
visited the Marconi exhibit alone. In 
March the museum helped sponsor 
workshops such as "Bubbles, Balloons 
and Paper Planes," which taught 
educational techniques for making 
science fun. 

Weekend and after-school programs 
taught by Brown and staff offer 
children the chance to experiment with 
technology. Brown believes that 
standard ·curriculums don't meet th~ 
special interests of mechanically-
inclined children. After kindergarten, 
kids must put away the blocks until 
lOth grade, when they can take shop. 
Brown wanted to provide children a 
chance to design and build, to fill the 
gap left by the schools. In the 
museum's woodshop, kids learn how to 
_work tools. Children, ages six to eight, 
10 one class use rubber bands as motors 
to power toy cars. Another course 
teaches seven-to-nine-year-olds how to 
build wooden robots with lever-driven 
grippers and periscopes. In these 
claases, a child learns by doing. "The 
kids we work with are brilliant students 
if you don't count reading and 
writing," said Brown. He wants the 
students to know that success does not 
require high academic achievement. 
As the museum's bulletin explains: "Eli 
Whitney is remembered not for the 
accomplishments of his Yale education 
but for the practical discoveries he 
made in his workshop." 

These discoveries included new 
methods of industrial organization, 
which Whitney practiced at his gun 
factory in New Haven. Here, he 
regained the fortune he had lost on his 
earlier invention, the cotton gin. In the 
twentieth century, the site passed from 
Whitney's heirs to other manufac-
turers, who used the area as an 
industrial park. During the bicenten-
nial celebrations of 1976, Merrill 
Linsay, 
a 
famous gun collector, 
became interested in founding a 
mu.seum on the old Whitney plant. 
The museum opened in 1984, after 
renovation of the main buildings and 
initial fund-raising. Although the town 
of Hamden and the New Haven water 
company share ownership of the 
property with the museum, it is a 
private institution. Funding comes 
from many sources, including the 
state, the town of Hamden, founda-
tions, and private individuals. 

Brown finds history the best way to 
interest children in technology and 
building. He uses historical examples to 
clarify certain abstract technological 
concepts. The first reservoir built for 
New Haven's water supply stands in 
front of the museum and once powered 
Whitney's mill and factory. Brown 
explains to kids 
that unlike the 
invisible power contained jn elec-
tricity, "back in the 19th century, 
energy is tangible." By restraining and 
channelling water, a millwheel and 
dam concretely show the flow of energy 
on a large scale. Children can compare 
the waterworks to an electrical circuit, 
where the minute size of electrons 
makes the flow of power invisible. 
Analogies such as this aim to make 
technology accessible to students. 
Brown hopes to encourage such 
involvement. He wants students to 
learn culture and history not only as 
printed works and music, but also as 
"what people do mechanically." 


**Livable Solutions Responding to the Housing Crisis**
**Author: Ellen Katz**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

The last tenant moved out in 1987. 

Since then all 366 apartments of the 
Elm Haven High Rise development 
have remained empty and uninhabi-
table. 

Next 
spring the 
Housing 
Authority of New Haven plans to 
demolish them. 

The Elm Haven 
towers, located just north of the Yale 
campus, epitomize failed 
public 
housing. 

With the demise of developments 
such as Elm Haven, public housing 
cannot adequately serve New Haven's 
low income tenants. Currently the 
number of people on public housing 
waiting lists exceeds the total number 
of existing units. Massive cuts in 
federal funding have also prevented 
further development. The Housing 
Authority has not constructed any new 
units in New Haven since 1986. 

Moreover, 
increasing rents have 
rendered much 
private housing 
prohibitive to low income families. 
Neither the public nor the private 
sector provides sufficient affordable 
housing. Consequently, fifteen 
to 
twenty families become homeless in 
Connecticut each week. One half of 
this burgeoning population lives in New 
Haven. 

Kathleen Simmons and Dana 
Faulkner represent the fastest growing 
8 The New J ournaVApril 21 , 1989 
group of homeless in the nation--
young single mothers with children. 
Faulkner, a nineteen-year-old mother 
with a two-month-old son, receives 
$434 monthly from Aid to Families 
with Dependent Children (AFDC), a 
state welfare program. Yet to rent a 
one-bedroom apartment 
in 
New 
Haven, including utilities, costs $555 a 
month. Clearly unable to afford such 
Homeless families 
overflowed emergency 
housing and moved 
into a "Tent City" on 
the New HCJ,ven 
Green. 
an apartment, Faulkner has been in an 
emergency shelter since February. "If I 
could find an apartment; she said, "I 
wouldn't be here." Simmons, a mother 
of two, added, "What you get on 
AFDC makes it virtually impossible to 
find decent ,affordable apartments." 

In New Haven, over 300 families 
currently live in emergency shelters. In 
response to the housing crisis, several 
developers · and philanthropic 
organizations have begun to design 
far-reaching 
solutions. 
Jim 
Rosenberry, 
private developer, 
believes local homelessness stems from 
the 
poor management of public 
housing. "It belongs to everyone so it 
belongs to no one," he explained, citinlZ 
the abandoned Elm Haven High Rises 
as evidence. 

Free of bureaucratic entanglements, 
Rosenberry says he can operate more 
efficiently and more economically. 
Since 1984, 
he 
has developed 
approximately 200 apartments for low· 
income tenants in the New Haven 
area. Because he personally owns the 
property, Rosenberry believes he has 
more incentive to make necessary 
repairs and manage it effectively than 
those administering public housing. 

In March, 
Housing Operation 
Management Enterprises (HOME), 
Inc. , a non-profit organization, bought 
twenty-nine apartments from 
Rosenberry. HOME used a $1 million 
loan from Yale to purchase these units 
located in the Newhallville and Hill 
sections of New Haven. Brett Hill, 
executive director of HOME, hopes 
that by operating these units at cost ~f 
operation, HOME will insulate th1s 


Elm Haven: "It belongs to everyone so it belongs to no one." 
property from market rent increases. 

Hill, like Rosenberry, stresses the 
need for careful management. Yet 
HOME's plan is more extensive. By 
involving residents in management 
decisions, such as tenant selection and 
repair priorities, HOME seeks to 
avoid traditional antagonism between 
landlord and tenants. Hill hopes this 
involvement will encourage tenants to 
develop bonds with each other and a 
commitment 
to their building. 

HOME's plan also includes a social 
service coordinator who will help 
tenants with personal and family 
problems. A $55,000 social service 
grant from the New Haven Founda-
tion will allow HOME to make the 
program work. 

Both HOME and Rosenberry offer 
private solutions to the housing crisis. 
Yet 
their success depends upon 
government subsidies. Currently one-
third of HOME's tenants and nearly 
three-fourths of Rosenberry's receive lobbyist for the homeless, the legislature 
publicly funded rental assistance. "The will probably not reinstate the program 
idea of low-income housing becoming because of the current budget crisis. 
totally private is a total myth," said "Anythmg requiring money 
gets 
Robert Solomon, a Yale Law School 
killed." 

In September 
1986, 
homeless 
families overflowed emergency 
housing and moved into a "Tent City" 
on the New Haven Green. The state 
introduced RAP 
to enable 
these 
families to afford permanant housing 
with the greater goal of preventing 
homelessness. RAP subsidies limit rent 
to 30 percent of tenants' monthly 
income. In conjunction with the RAP 
subsidy, 
state established 
Homefinders, 
group of agents 
responsible for securing apartments for 
RAP recipients. 

The state of Connecticut created the 
Rental Assistance Program (RAP), a 
subsidy that fosters the private-public 
balance Solomon advocates, 
three 
years ago. But on January 1, the state 
stopped issuing RAPs. While the state 
will continue to support the 800 
existing RAPs, the present budget 
allocation cannot fund new subsidies. 
Accordin_~ to 
Brenden Sharsky, 



**The End of RAP: A Look at the Effects of the Rental Assistance Program's Demise**
**Author: Eli Katz**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
families previously evicted for 
nonpayment of rent. He says suc;, 
prospective tenants are generally 
automatic rejections, but with RAP 
Schmidt could accept them. Because 
the state guarantees rental payments, 
he has consistently reserved 
apartments for RAP recipients coming 
from welfare motels . Schmidt 
describes the majority of these families 
as "model" tenants. 

Today, Schmidt awaits authori· 
zation to open his most recently •
renovated building. A year ago, the 
building's electric~ system was frayed, 
the plumbing was clogged, and the 
staircase was falling down. Vagrants 
"There is no 
constitutional or 
federal right to 
permanent housing." 
lived in the halls alongside drog 
dealers. Only two tenants remained in 
a building which could house twelve 
families. 

Schmidt made 
these 
apartments livable and intended to 
open the units to RAP recipients. 
The termination of RAP does not 
significantly affect Schmidt's 
plan~ · 
Although he can no longer open b1S 
building to RAP recipients, he will be 
able to find other tenants. In fact, be 
claims that advertising a renovated 
apartment in New Haven will generate 
hundreds of phone calls. 

Losing RAP has reduced the options 
available for homeless mothers like 
Simmons and Faulkner. Five months 
ago, Homefinders would have beell 
able to place them m permanent 


housing. Faulkner and Simmons must 
now find alternate forms of rental 
assistance. They can apply to the 
federal government for "Section 8" 
certificates, a subsidy similar to RAP, 
but the number of these subsidies is 
limited. Furthermore, some landlords 
criticize the administration of these 
certificates. Schmidt, for example, will 
not accept 'Section 8' certificates issued 
through the Housing Authority of New 
H aven. More likely, Simmons and 
Faulkner will receive rental vouchers 
for fixed sums. Yet these subsidies do 
not accomodate individuals' income 
limitations. 

Otherwise, Faulkner and Simmons 
may decide to share an apartment with 
other families. Faulkner hopes that by 
combining her income with others, she 
can 
a fford an apartment. 
Such 
overcrowding may be unavoidable. 
"I'm not going out on the streets with 
my son," Faulkner said, "He's only a 
baby. There's no way." 

Faulkner will remain in a shelter 
until May, when her 100 days of 
emergency housing expire. The state 
provides her and all other homeless 
families with three months of 
emergency shelter . Solomon believes 
this 
provision 
disguises 
the 
real 
problem: The state does not guarantee 
permanent housing. 
"There is 
a 
difference between a nght to shelter 
and a right to housing," he said. 
"There is no constitutional or federal 
right to permanent housing. The right 
needs to be established." 

Simmons and Faulkner hope to find 
permanent housing, but the prospects 
remain grim. Simmons believes the 
government is ultimately responsible 
for providing housing. •Tell them to help 
us find a place to live," she said, 
"somebody has got to do it." 

• 
Ellm Katz is a sophomort in Timothy 
Dwight Collegt. 


**Title: Tattoo Uncovered A Look At Local Body Art**
**Author: Josh Plaut**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Grasping the tattoo gun between 
rubber-gloved fingers_, Spider Webb 
dips its needle into a paper container 
full of thick black pigment. He steps 
down on the foot pedal and presses the 
tip of the needle into a young woman's 
tan shoulder. Staccato bursts from the 
gun drown out the strains of Poison's 
"Fallen Angel" pouring out of a color 
television set. Webb has worked on the 
woman's tattoo for more than an hour. 
As he adds streaks of yellow, black, red 
and white ink, a tiger's head slowly 
emerges. With each additional stroke, 
the image comes into sharper focus. 
Bottles of pigment, discarded brushes 
and disposable 
razors clutter the 
countertop. At the other end of the 
counter, Andrew "Zee" Sistrand, 
Webb's assistant, tattoos the outline of 
a unicorn onto another woman's back. 
The Spider Webb studio in Derby 
can draw its customers on name alone. 
Webb's original art is included in 
national body art exhibitions. He is 
known for work such as the first three· 
dimensional tattoo and "X-1000," a 
conceptual piece in which he tattooed 
x's on a thousand people. He has 
written six books on tattoo art, several 
of which were printed by major 
publishing houses. Of New Haven's 
three tattoo artists, only Webb enjoys a 
national audience, and articles on 
him have appeared in magazines 
ranging from 
The New 
Yorker to 
Pmtiwuse. 
New 
Ha~en's other two tattoo 
studios, while lacking Webb's fame, 
hue their image on consistent, if 
undramatic, professionalism. Imperial 
Illustrations bills itself as the most 
caring tattoo studio in Connecticut. 
The owners, Joe and Debbie Vitelli, 
stress their use of hospital-quality 
sterilization equipment. Jim Stellato, 
owner of Big Jim's Papillon, touts his 
studio's exceptional level of cleanliness. 


Tattoo studios emphasize their 
fastidiousness to assuage public fears of 
the AIDS virus. Ironically, the Center 
for Disease Control (CDC) asserts that 
tattooing's ma,jor health risk is not 
"We won't just slam 
design number 372 on 
people here. Every 
tattoo is an original 
creation." 
HIV infection. According to CDC 
research, 
no 
one has 
reported 
contracting AIDS from a tattoo needle. 
The most significant health hazard for 
tattoo artists and their customers is 
contraction of either staph infection or 
hepatitis-B. Unlike the AIDS virus 
which is weak outside the body, 
hepatitis-B can live on the tip of a 
nec;dle for several days. Local artists 
are well acquainted with the dangers of 
this disease. In the late Seventies, city 
officials closed down New Haven's first 
studio, "The Illustrated Man," after 
several customers contracted hepatitis. 
The owners of New Haven's three 
current studios 
say 
that their 
establishments have had no incidents 
of serious infection. At Papillon, the 
artists use disposable needles. They 
sterilize the rest of their equipment in 
an autoclave, a heat and pressure 
sterilizer. Webb uses a similar system. 
At Imperial, the Vitellis disinfect their 
equipment with a Chemiclave 5000, a 
more modern version of the autoclave. 
Attention to health is only part of the 
tattooists' efforts to maintain a good 
relationship with customers. This 
relationship begins when the customer 
selects a design. The Vitellis find that 
clients most often choose images of 
panthers, roses, hearts, grim reapers 
and cartoon characters. Joe Vitelli sees 
a common theme in the customers' 
selections. Most people get tattoos 
during times of stress, he explains, 
and the subject matter reflects this. 
Joe Vitelli tries to dissuade first-time 
customers from 
choosing demons, 
skulls, 
Asian 
dragons or names. 
"About 60 percent of the coverup work 
we do is concealing names," he said. At 
Imperial and Papillon, clients can 
request custom designs or pick from 
standard sketches called flashes. Joe 
Vitelli stressed that clients who request 
flashwork rarely tolerate any embel-
lishment. "If they ask for a cartoon 
character, it's got to look like Hannah 
Barbara drew it themselves." 


Striving for 
truer personal 
expression, Webb refuses to tattoo 
requests for devil tattoos because he is a 
born-again Christian. 
flash. "We won't just slam design 
number 372 on people here. Every 
tattoo 
is an original creation." 
Although customers bring him 
drawings and photographs, Webb 
translates these images into his style. 
Barring any ethical conflicts, the 
tattooing begins when the customer 
either selects a flash or approves the 
artist's sketch. The physical experience 
of being tattooed varies from person to 
person. Vitelli likens the feeling to 
having sunburned skin. 
Some 
customers encounter a much higher 
level of discomfort. Laura Gonzalez 
(BR '89) described her three tattooing 
experiences as painful and nauseating. 
Although tattoo artists try to prepare 
their clients, 
Webb doubts the 
helpfulness of any explanation. "It's 
like talking about sex to a virgin." 

"We've got my artwork in books and 
photographs that they can look at. If 
they don't like my work, I can refer 
them to somebody else." 
Spider Webb, unlike Stellato or the 
Vitellis, 
avoids making value 
judgements about 
subject 
matter. 
"There's nothing I won't draw or do for 
money," 
he 
said. 
As 
practicing 
Catholics, the Vitellis will not sketch 
upside-down crosses or 666 signs. 
They also refuse to tattoo swastikas or 
anti-Semitic images. Although willing 
to draw swastikas, Stellato turns down


In applying the tattoo, the artist first 
draws an outline with black pigment. 
After completing the outline, be adds 
color by moving the vibrating needle from one corner of the tattoo to the 
other. If the artist needles one spot for too long or allows the client's body to absorb the shock, keloid scars can 
develop. 
Tattooists learn technical skills such 
as scar prevention in an apprenticeship 
program. "You can't just buy a tattoo kit 
from the back of Easy Rider magazine 
and start tattooing," Joe Vitelli said. •It 
doesn't work that way." While admit-
ting apprenticeships provide the basic 
skills, 
Webb finds this training 
inadequate. 
He believes that 
apprentices should receive formal 
instruction to become more artistically 
refined. 
Webb credits his alma 
maters- the School of Visual Arts in 
New York City and the University of 
Guanajuato in Mexico- for his 
stylistic complexity. Only in art school 
will other tattoo artists, Webb believes, 
reach a level of artistic sophistication 
comparable to his own. 
Webb has developed a distinct style. 
Placement of the tattoo is central to his 
art. A photograph of a dragon tattoo 
etched by Webb reveals how he models 
his work to the shape of his subject's 
body. The dragon winds around a 
woman's right shoulder to her left hip, 
following the curves of her breast and 
midrift. The foreshortening of the 
dragon conveys depth and motion. 
Fantastical images appear often in 
Webb's work. He draws dragons, 
winged creatures, 
serpents, 
and 
medieval warriors. 
The Vitellis and Stellato tattoo in a 
number of regional styles, from the 
brightly colored, heavily outlined New 
York look to the wispy, colorless 
designs of California. The ability of a 
tattoo artist to work in many regional. 
styles mdicates the centralization of the 
modern body art world. National 
tattoo conventions bring together 
artists from different parts of the 
country, and blur regional distinc-
tions, explains Karen lndeck, curator 
of Gallery 400 in Chicago. 
Women have recently emerged in 
the body art world both as artists and 
as clients. Important women in body 


**Title: Untitled**
**Author:  No author listed**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
CLARK'S PIZZA 
ANO RESTAURANT 
776-8465 
SPECIALIZING IN 
GREEK FOOD 
MOVSSAICA SOUVl.tKI 
PASTICI<IO 
GIRO GREEK SA lAOS 
HOT OIIINOEIIS 
SPECIAl Of$$HtT-
84KlAVA 
Hours: Sun.-Thurs. 11 p.m.-1 a.m. 
Fri., Sat. 11 p.m.-2 a .m. 
68 WHITNEY AVENUE 


Barbara and Kandi Everett, and 
Swedish artist Mia Nore'n. ~~ck 
singled out American artist jennie 
Sommers as an important innovator 
"She did incredible things by softening 
lines, introducing landscape pieces and 
using feathering techniques." 
.. Clint Sanders, 
autbor 
o f 
a 
sociological study entitled Ctlslomizi_!lg 
the Body, estimates women c9mpnse 
forty percent of the market for tatt~s. 
According to Webb, tattoed celebnttes 
have drawn women into the tattoo 
parlor. •Jn the Sixties it was Janis, 
today 
it's Cher," 
he commented. 
Gonzalez decided to get her tattoos for 
more personal reasons. "I wanted to 
keep up with the guys." she said 
Gonzalez went for her first tattoo 
when she was thirteen. She now has 
three: a rose, a butterfly and the 
cartoon character, Bambi. The tattoos 
are in easily concealed areas ol her 
body, 
an important concern 
for 
Gonzalez as she enters Yale Law 
School. "I am going into a prestigious 
'ili:i4:: 
am eler playing tennis with 
m?&>ss I c~ovtr them UP. .. she !Nlid. 
In addftion 
tG 
suctt 
practical 
concerns, ~men as a group seem to 
'Prefer tbl' eroticism of concealed 
tattoos. •It's my secret: l&id Gonaalez. 
"It's a sexy, cool lit de part or me." 
Webb agrees that getting a tattoo, like 
any cosmetic alteration to the body, is 
a sexual statement. 


Women who choose to express 
themselves through tattoos no longer 
face public disapproval. In the past, 
tattooed women were considered 
immoral. "It was assumed that you 
were some kind of freak, that you were 
promiscuous, that you were a nympho-
maniac," said Debbie Vitelli. Although 
this view is changing, she says tattooed 
women are still stereotyped. 


SOifte artists believe that Webb 
perpetuates negative stereotypes about 
tattooing and women. Objections 
focus on Webb's use of overtly sexual 
and misogynous imagery. A video of 
his tattoo vampire act is notorimu in 


**Title: Cultivating Science**
**Author: Motoko Rich**
**Page number(s): 18**

"Admit a class . . . 
who can go through a 
Group-IV course 
without feeling this is 
a life-threatening, 
soul-destroying 
proposition." 

"It was huge," said Tasha Elsbach (BR 
'91) of Alvin Novick's popular AIDS 
and Society course. But Novick's class 
wasn't the only science course to draw 
a crowd this fall. Many undergra-
duates would be surprised to know that 
students filled the aisles of 110 Sterling 
Chemistry Lab for Peter Moore's 
Comprehensive General C hemistry, a 
required cou rse for chemistry majors. 
Moreover, some members of the Yale 
community are taking steps to make 
courses like Moore's even larger. 
Last year, administrators decided to 
increase the number of science 
students at Yale. Dean of Admissions 
Worth David asked the Office of 
I nstitutional Research (OIR) to 
conduct a study that would determine 
which applicants would most likely 
major in the sciences. As a new policy, 
the Admissions Committee gave 
preferential treatment to those whom 
the O IR labeled potential scientists. As 
a result, Yale accepted almost 10 
percent more science students than it 
had in 1987. 
But only a fraction of those admitted 
actually matriculated to Yale. Many 
serious students of science, math, and 
engineering still chose universities with 
stronger reputations in those fields. At 
Yale, the sciences continue to suffer 
from an underdog image as they fight 
for stature beside the humanities. High 
school guidance counselors encourage 
their students to apply to Yale for the 
liberal arts, but advise potential 
science majors to _apply elsewhere. 
,When Chem istry 
D irector of 
Undergraduate Studies Robert 
Crabtree 
visited 
high schools to 
promote Yale's science departments, 
he was surprised by how openly the



**Title: Yale's Science Departments**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
teachers
expressed
their
negative
impressions. "Not many of them were
going to send their best science
students to Yale."

There are a number of reasons why
Yale's science departments may appear
less attractive than those of other
univers1ttes.
Unlike Harvard and
M.I.T, which receive funding from
corporations such as Xerox, and
Stanford, which can draw on the
resources of nearby Silicon Valley,
Yale lacks substantial local support
from
technological industries.
These other universities tout their
research facilities
when wooing
potential
science
under-
graduates. At Stanford, promotional
brochures feature the mile-long Linear
Accelerator. Yale has no such flashy
equipment. "Having a
showcase
facility is just that," said Professor of
Biology
Robert Wyman.
"One
shouldn't . confuse
it for better
teaching."

Science professors at Yale
emphasize the university's strengths as
"People are surprised
to hear rm a science
major because I don't
wear coke-bottle
glasses or walk around
with a calculator in
my pocket."
a teaching rather than a research
institution. They say that the science
departments don't deserve a
bad
image. Yet science students, upon
arriving at Yale, find the university
less than welcoming. A good fifteen
minute walk separates Science Hill
from the other classrooms, dormi-
tories, and administrative buildings.
In addition, science majors are socially
isolated, saddled with stereotypes by
their peers. "A lot of people are
surprised to hear rm a science major
because I don't wear coke-bottle glasses
or walk around with a calculator in my
pocket," said Joseph Cerro (BK '89), a
molecular biophysics and biochemistry
major.

The campaign
to
increase
the
population of science students at Yale
will help create a friendlier environ-
ment. With greater representation,
science majors can feel that they
belong to a significant community. "I
think it's important to have sufficient
numbers of science students so they
feel supported; that they're not the
outcasts or the weirdos, and in order to
do that they have to be more than
token," said Professor of Biology Alvin
Novick.

The New JoumaVApril21 , 1989 19


**Title: Science for Non-Majors: A Difficult Task**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"You drive them away. 
You convince them 
that they're dumb. 
You don't make them 
more liberally 
educated, you make 
them hostile." 
requirement similar to Yale's language 
requirement. All Yale undergraduates 
must attain a certain proficiency in a 
foreign language, which they achieve 
by passing an exam or by two years of 
language study at 
Yale. 
Haller 
suggests that students should 
demonstrate a comparable proficiency 
in the sciences. Deficiently prepared 
students would take remedial classes, 
just as those who have had no language 
background start from scratch. 
Novick believes undergraduates 
should have more of a choice. He 
thinks that compelling unprepared 
students to take standard science 
courses defeats the purpose of giving 
them a science education at all. "You 
drive them away. You convince them 
that they're dumb, you teach them all 
the wrong lessons. You don't make 
them more liberally educated. You 
make them hostile." Students like those 
in Novick's course often avoid straight 
introductory science courses because 
they fear the thought of an integral or a 
chemical equation. "You hear all those 
hell stories about people staying up all 
night doing problem sets," said Jamie 
Slaughter OE '91. 
Tougher grading standards also 
deter many students from taking 
courses designed for science majors. 
Substantially fewer A's are awarded in 
Group IV than in Groups I,II or III


(languages, humanities, and social 
sciences). 
While many faculty 
members believe that the rest of the 
college should align 
its grading 
standards with the sciences, others, 
including Crabtree, think the 
sciences ought to align 
their 
grading standards with the humanities. 
Such alignment would 
be 
difficult, 
since the work turned 
in for grading in the two areas 
differs 
radically. 
In the humanities, 
grading tends toward the 
subjective, 
whereas in science 
courses grading is objective. "It's 
a little bit scary because you know 
you can write a paper, but a math 
problem is either right or wrong," 
said Slaughter, a history major. 
Professors who elect to teach science 
courses for non-majors face a uniquely 
difficult task. They want to communicate basic concepts and a love of 
their discipline to a skeptical audience 
which doesn't know the language of 
science. Because many students lack 
confidence in their quantitative skills, 
professors who teach non-majors run 
the risk of alienating their audience if 
they introduce too many formulas. 
Wyman believes part of the solution 
lies in choosing the right books. "What 
one needs are high-level texts that 
really appeal to the intelligence and 
sophistication of the Yale student, but 
which have a different aim from the 
standard texts." 
Eager to assuage students' fears, 
professors offer science without the 
difficult scientific terminology, just as 
one might teach a foreign literature 
without using the original language. 
"You can read Russian literature 
without reading it in 
Russian," 
Wyman said. Yet when professors 
completely remove the language of 
science from their courses, students 
often don't take them seriously, and 
begin to call the courses "guts." After 
working to make their classes more 
accessible, professors like Novick are 
puzzled by this phenomenon. "The 
most effectively taught courses are 
mocked, and if they continue for more 
than a few years they become the 
target of patronizing jokes and put-
down names," Novick said. The gut 
reputations may arise from disagreements among students and faculty 
as to what constitutes an effectively 
taught course. Novick believes that the 
main purpose of a class for non-majors 
is to help students grasp a general 
understanding of science. But some 
students reach for something more 
tangible. 
Elsbach 
expected 
more 
biology, and was disappointed not to 
find it in AIDS and Society. "I don't 
know if Novick went in thinking that it 
should be an easy course," she said. "A 
lot of people thought it was a gut."


**Title: Science at Yale**
**Author: Motolro Rich**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
m1 -J t~~~~§;-.:~~~ 
Scie ·fie School an 
School 
· ~ ed off 
stacked anti-science," said 
Lister. 

Coincidentally or not, 
most 
administrators graduated from Yale 
with a Bachelor of Arts degree. "So 
there is this matter of a small built-in 
pre~nst sciences," Lister said. 

(\s the adrili'SmQns..~ce attem~ts to 
campus. The S e ~'e:-~~~~~~:...._~~~~-.--..<1 
own trustees, faculty, labs, three-year 
degree, and even its own secret 
societies. It wasn't until the Scientific 
and Engineering Schools had both 
returned to graduate status in 1962, 
that Yale College assumed the entire 
responsibility for undergraduate arts 
and sciences. 

While the administration insists that 
changes in admissions policy and 
distributional requirements merely 
reflect a long-standing commitment to 
science at Yale, the traditions of the 
university suggest otherwise. "This is 
an arts university, and the admini-
stration for many years has been 
one sees 
institutions," said Yale 
percent, Stanford 38 percent, and 
Princeton 25 percent. 

Dean of Yale 
College Sidney 
Altman does not foresee that the 
number of science students will ever 
rise dramatically enough to shift the 
focus of Yale's curriculum. He denies 
that the administration's emphasis on 
science this year represents a change in 
Yale's educational philosophy. But 
admitting more science majors could 
exert a 
long-term 
influence on 
university policy, as today's science 
students go on to become professors 
and administrators. Furthermore, 
stricter Group IV requirements 
foreshadow 
standards of scientific 
aptitude for all students. Yale seems to be 
moving away from its tradition as a 
humanities-dominated institution. Science 
Hill might not become the center of 
campus, but Chemistry 115 might 
have to move to a bigger classroom 
next year. 

• 
Motolro Rich, a sophomore in Branford 
College, is on tht staff oJTNJ. 
The New JoumaVApriJ 21 , 1989 25


**Title: Afterthought**
**Author: John McKivigan**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

Afterthought I John McKivigan 
The Machine Shifts Gears 
"Stunned" was 
the word most 
frequently used by 
New Haven 
political observers to describe their 
reaction to city Mayor Biagio "Ben" 
DiLieto's announcement that he will 
not run for a sixth two-year term this 
year. He faced a contest for the 
Democratic Party mayoral nomination 
from popular black state senator John 
Daniels, but DiLieto had a good 
chance of surviving that challenge and 
once again steamrolling over the 
candidates of the Republican and 
Green parties 
in the 
November 
election. The departure of DiLieto 
from the city's political stage makes 
26 The New journal/April 21 , 1989 
A Tuming Point 
in New Haven Politics 
room tor new actors to compete for the 
starring· role_ but Ieavell the audience 
wondering if the script will really 
change. It remains to be seen if the 
contest to succeed DiLieto will really 
produce a genuine debate about the 
future direction of the city. 

DiLieto's legacy is a city in crisis. 
Despite the fashionable shops and 
restaurants downtown, the demise of 
the city's manufacturing base, 
especially the apparel and fire-arms 
industry, has made New Haven the 
seventh poorest city per-capita in the 
nation. Studies have revealed that the 
hunger and infant mortality in certain 
city neighborhoods is worse than in 
most of the Third World. The "gentri-
fication" of other neighborhoods has 
placed a great strain on New Haven's 
housing resources and created a 
serious problem of homelessness. New 
Haven faces an environmental crisis of 
mammoth proportions unless it finds 
new ways to dispose of solid waste. In 
response to these and other problems, 
the city has experienced a flight of its 
predominantly white middle class to 
the suburbs, further undercutting New 
Haven's tax base and its ability to 
supply adequate social services to its 
remaining population, which 
IS 

increasingly black and Puerto Rican. 

Many of New Haven's problems 
predate DiLieto's tenure as mayor, but 
his critics believe he failed to act 
creatively to solve them. Much of the 
debate centers on the 
issue of 
"underdevelopment." The steady 
decline in federal funding for programs 
to revive decaying urban centers such 
as New Haven during the presidency 
of Ronald Reagan 
forced city 
governments to turn to the private 
sector to finance redevelopment. Few 
city administrations, however, turned 
so avidly to the private sector as 
DiLieto's. By loans, tax concessions, 
and other assistance, 
the city 
underwrote numerous development 
schemes mainly in the city's downtown 
and harbor areas. In its rush to finance 
these programs, the city backed a 
number of fiascos, including the ill-
fated "Downtown South" convention 
center project and inumerable 
downtown shopping mall proposals. 

Critics have charged favoritism in the 
awarding of city support to "preferred 
developers", most of whom were large 
financial 
backers of the mayor's 
campaigns. 

The underlying hope of DrLieto's 
development 
program 
was that 
prosperity would eventually trickle 
down to the poorer neighborhoods 
from the seemingly prosperous 
downtown. After a 
decade, these 
neighborhoods are still waltlng. 

Opponents charge that the mayor has 
played politics with the city's poverty-
related problems. DiLieto created task 
forces to examine such issues as solid 
waste disposal, drugs, hunger, and 
AIDS, but generally packed them with 
his political friends. These committees 
invariably reported back with strong 
endorsements of the mayor's 
programs. 

It is remarkable how little impact the 
unsolved problems of the city have had 
on the mayor's popularity at the polls. 
A few years ago, one New Haven 
magazine compared DiLieto's ability 
to avoid public blame for his admini-
stration's failings with that of former 
President Ronald Reagan. The story 
dubbed him the "teflon mayor." 

DiLieto won reelection in 1981 , 
1983, 1985, and 1987 with majorities 
approaching 75 percent. Meanwhile, 
the Republican Party in New Haven 
dwindled 
to 
a 
corporal's guard, 
controlling only the two wealthiest of 
the city's 30 wards. Most of the "protest 
vote" against DiLieto's policies went to 
the city's third party, the Greens, 
founded in 1985. Still, they have failed 
to attract much more than ten percent 
of the citywide vote. 

DiLieto faced no serious rivals for 
control of the Democratic organization 
after he ousted incumbent mayor 
Frank Logue in a primary in Septem-
ber 1979. 

After his victory, 
the 
Democratic "machine" tolerated little 
dissent. With a stranglehold on city 
hall, it rewarded its friends with 
patronage, city contracts, and various 
forms of special treatment. To receive 
the Democratic nomination for any 
local office required endorsing 
DiLieto's reelection. 

Over the DiLieto decade, 
Democratic-dominated city legislative 
branch, 
Board of Aldermen, 
deteriorated into a rubber stamp for 
the mayor. The only important intra-
party challenge DiLieto faced came in 
1987, when Bill Jones, a popular black 
city personnel administrator, forced 
him into a primary. Jones' lack of 
adequate finances and the machine's 
ability to divide the city's black 
community resulted in DiLieto 
winning by more than a two-to-one 
margin. In the same primary, the 
Democratic machine successfully 
targeted for defeat the handful of 
Democratic aldermen who had 
occasionally opposed the mayor's 
policies. 

The 1987 election victory was the 
highpoint of DiLieto's political career. 
Since then, a series of reversals have 
weakened the mayor politically and 
probably hastened his decision to 
retire. The death of Democratic Party 
Town Chairperson Vincent Mauro in 
late 1987 cost DiLieto his most skillful 
fundraiser and political fence-mender. 
Mauro's loss was keenly felt last year 
during an ugly intra-party battle to 
succeed retiring city Registrar of 
Voters Frank Rossi. When the Demo-
cratic Party Town Committee passed 
over veteran Deputy Registrar Althea 
Tyson, a black woman, to endorse 
Clerk-typist Sharon Ferrucci as Rossi's 
replacement, Tyson's backers charged 
that its motivation was racial. Tyson 
waged a primary challenge against 
Ferrucci and attracted a surprising 
degree of support among white liberal 
activists. Although DiLieto claimed to 
be neutral in this contest, the support 
that Democratic party regulars gave 
Ferrucci, who narrowly defeated 
Tyson, convinced many blacks that the 
machine feared their gaining more 
political power. 

DiLieto then became mired m a 
bruising feud 
with City School 
Superintendent John Dow and the 
chairperson of the New Haven Board 
of Education, the Reverend Edwin R. 
Edmonds. Ostensibly a fight about 
fiscal control over the school budget, 
the contest developed racial overtones 
as Dow and Edmonds, both black, 
argued that the predominantly white 
city administration was underfunding 
the educational needs of New Haven's 
The New Journal/April 21, 1989 27 



**The DiLieto Departure and the New Haven Mayoral Race**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
largely black and Puerto Rican public 
school students. Although a budget 
compromise was finally reached, the 
political rift between DiLieto and Dow 
and Edmonds has not healed. Over the 
past few years, the New Haven school 
system has built up its own separate 
patronage network, which Dow and 
Edmonds have thrown behind the 
campaign of DiLieto challenger, John 
Daniels. For the first time, because of 
the racial context of the Tyson and the 
school battles, the black community is 
united to an unprecented degree in 
their desire to remove DiLieto. 

During the past few months, the 
DiLieto administration has been 
embarrassed by allegations of cor-
ruption and cronyism. The local 
N.A.A.C.P. 
chapter charged that 
DiLieto's Executive Assistant Joseph 
Carbone used his office to profit in real 
estate speculations. Other critics 
attacked the awarding of a $25,000 city 
development grant 
to 
a 
Dixwell 
Avenue church headed by a pro-
DiLieto black minister. Even the 
previously slavishly pro-DiLieto daily 
newpaper, The New Haven Register, 
recently printed a few critical stories on 
the ethics of the DiLieto admini-
stration. 

Despite mounting problems , 
DiLieto was the odds-on favorite 
among 
political 
observers in the 
upcoming election. The Democratic 
Party was firmly in his control and 
remained capable of turning out huge 
majorities for its candidates in the city's 
heavily Italian-American wards east of 
the Quinnipiac River. At the same 
time, the mayor retained his legendary 
popularity among New Raven's large 
senior citizen voting block. DiLieto 
could count on support from the city's 
municipal unions (except for teachers), 
who knew who was their boss, and the 
construction trade unions, who pro-
fited 
by DiL ieto's program of 
subsidizing downtown construction. 

Even without the services of Mauro as 
his chief fundraiser, DiLieto would 
have gotten lucrative financial 
contributions from businesses that 
have done and expect to continue 
doing business with the city. 

Still, DiLieto stepped down. He 
might have sensed that this election 
would be harder fought than any since 
he ousted Logue a decade ago. H is 
policies would have received more 
careful scrutiny and louder criticism 
than ever before. As a man who clearly 
enjoys his personal popularity, the 
price of victory in a contest such as that 
might have seemed too high. By re-
tiring as the undefeated champion of 
New Haven politics, DiLieto remains 
in a strong position to influence the 
choice of his .successor and thereby the 
future city policies. And therein lies 
the rub. 

The immediate beneficiary of 
DiLieto's withdrawal is John Daniels. 
He had already begun to put together a 
campaign based primarily in the city's 
black wards but with some prominent 
white supporters, such as former 
alderman Edward Zelinsky and 
Cynthia Savo, former publisher of The 
Independent, a local weekly news-
paper. In early campaign statements, 
Daniels criticized the mayor for 
ignoring the needs of poor and 
minority neighborhoods while concen-
trating resources on downtown 
development. Daniels' rhetoric was 
relatively mild, 
however, and he 
probably can still court DiLieto's white 
political supporters. This effort already 
seems underway; 
when Daniels 
responded to DiLieto's withdrawal 
announcement, he praised his 
departing rival as a great "builder" of 
the city. 

Because of his non-
confrontational 
style, 
Daniels also 
appears to 
have 
retained cordial 
relations with Arthur T. Barbieri, the 
reputed Democratic boss of the 1960's, 
who stepped in to replace Mauro as 
Town Committee Chair. 

There is 
still time for other


**Title: The 1989 New Haven Mayoral Election: A Call for Change**
**Author: John McKivigan**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
be thoroughly reported by the local 
press. This would have the important 
added benefit of giving public 
exposure to candidates who do not 
have wealthy contributors to pay for 
the advertising necessary for a citywide 
campaign. 


There will be no shortage of issues 
for 
this candidate debate. The 
following are just some of the most 
pressing: 

Thanks in part to a large drop in 
state subsidies, the next mayor will 
inherit an enormous budget deficit. 
This will put great pressure on the new 
mayor to continue DiLieto's program 
of subsidizing downtown development 
in order to increase the city's tax base. 
Mayoral candidates should debate the 
wisdom of continuing DiLieto's 
development policies at the expense·of 
the city's social services budget to deal 
with problems of hunger, homeless-
ness, and crime. 

A key question concerning New 
Haven's fiscal crisis involves Yale 
University's responsibility to the city. 
DiLieto steadfastly refused to ask Yale 
to pay for the services it consumed, nor 
did he attempt to tax the institution . 
With state coffers empty and the state 
unable to adequately reimburse New 
Haven for tax revenues lost because of 
:ale, this campaign should reopen the 
Issue of town-gown relations. 

DiLieto seemed content to stall 
action on the city's solid waste 
problems until the state stepped in and 
forced New Haven to join in its trash 
incineration scheme. Candidates must 
say where they will resist trash burning 
and commit the city to recycling as a 
safer solution to its solid waste crisis. 

A mayoral candidate must present a 
program for greater control over the 
city's school budget by elected officials. 
The idea of an elected rather than an 
appointed Board of Education as a way 
to achieve more public accountability 
needs 
full debate in 
this year's 

Now is the time for a funda-
mental assessment of city govern-
ment. City hiring policies need to be 
changed to remove the final vestiges of 
the political patronage system. The 
policy of award~g contracts on the 
basis of campaign contributions must 
end. The merits of a sweeping revision 
of the charter for New Haven's city 
government should be discussed in the 
1989 campaign. 

Getting the candidates to debate the 
issues is only part of the solution to 
New Haven's political problems. It is 
also up to the city's voters to educate 
themselves on the issues and lobby the 
candidates to take clear and construc-
tive 
positions. To counteract the 
organizational power of the old city 
machine, more citizens than ever 
before must give generously of their 
time and money in the upcoming 

The retirement of Ben DiLieto does 
not mean the automatic end to the 
policies that have governed New 
Haven for the past decade. Unless we 
demand that this fall's candidates make 
the election a referendum on the 
DiLieto years, the policies of his failed 
administration just might continue to 
govern the city by default. 

• 

john McKivigan is a lecturer in the history 
department. 



COOL STUFF 
YOU HAVE 
TO HAVE 
The Folk Art Shop, Ltd. 
961 State St. 
New Haven, CT 06511 
(203) 865-4277 

A F€MINIST BOOK STOR£ 
9JS STAT~ ST~ "N€W HA.vt:N' 06511 llm•7S01' 
Books 
O'Y/lMic 
3wdly 
Gift/5 
By·F~ 
tWomen


NIF 
P.O. BOX 1890, 155 WHITNEY AVENU~. NEW HAVEN, CT 06508 203-432-6076 
FOUNDED 1890 
•• 

