Publication date: October 15, 1967
Volume: one
Issue number: one


**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors: Gerald Bruck, Daniel Yergin
- Business Manager: Peter Yaeger
- Designer: Ronald Gross
- Photography Editor: Herman Hong
- Associate Editor: Paul Malamud
- Associate Business Manager: Jeffrey Pollock


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Comment
- Buildings - Steven Weisman
- Truth


**Title: Comment**
**Author:  (No Author Listed)**
**Page number(s): 2**

Buildings
Everybody who is somebody has one.
Selected law students, a few under-
graduates, English teachers, art students.
Even Reuben Holden, secretary of Yale,
has a relic of the University's most recent
victims of modernization-those much-
celebrated and late-lamented red brick
Victorian "monsters," Winchester and
North Sheffield Halls.

"They are splendid monoliths of the
past," acknowledged Kingman Brewster
Jr. in 1965, as he prepared to sic the iron
ball on the two structures, making way for
the first building commissioned under
his presidency-an Engineering and
Applied Science edifice which Vincent
Scully promptly called "one prolonged
stutter, a folded-paper fayade too high, too
long, too meaninglessly articulated, too
thin, too superficial, too pretentious ....
It should live alone with the Beinecke
Library in goo-goo land."

Now those be-gargoyled and orna-
mented, but solid-looking buildings on
Prospect just north of Grove have been
demolished. "I used to go by them every
day on my way to work;' said one teacher.
"Suddenly I went by and they were gone.
I didn't realize how much I'd miss them."

North Sheffield Hall, 1872-1967, and
Winchester Hall, 1892-1967, have gone
the way of Osborn Hall, Marquand
Chapel and Kent Chemical Laboratory.
Winchester contained some research labs
and classrooms for general use. North
Sheff, which had been criticized for in-
sufficient space since 1875, about the same.
They were doomed for their terrible
inefficiency (huge stair-wells and poor
distribution of offices), so much so that
even some who liked the buildings felt
they had to go.

The band of valiant men who tried to
save them were fated to fail from the
beginning. Professional cynics scoffed at
the notion of structures "conversing" and
"participating in a great conversation of
the generations," but for the happy few
who believe that buildings are fabulous
manifestations of man's humanity,
Winchester and North Sheff were
splendid indeed.

They were made of warm red brick:,
their fayades severe but generous, grand
in scale yet not too massive for the street
they faced. They were studded with fluted
ornaments, gargoyles, moulded brick, in-
tricate balustrades, mosaic masterpieces,
granite columns. Designed by J. Cleveland
Cady, who also produced the old Met,
they were rare buildings from a specific
past which offered that past to the com-
munity. "The city needs the past," Mr.
Scully has written. "That's its dimension
and, in fact, its meaning."

There were lots of people at Yale who
recognized Mr. Scully's tenet. "The
University," said Reuben Holden, "didn't
want to lose some of those great pieces,"
so it acquired from the fey structures
5 columns, an old door and an iron gate,
now stored at the Yale Nursery in
Hamden. Mr. Holden said Yale hasn't
decided precisely what to do with them.

Meantime, hordes of students and
faculty descended on Winchester and
Nonh Sheff dail)'. or rather nightly when
Stamford House Wrecking completed its
daily task, to retrieve the ornaments just
lying around.

Mr. Holden personally salvaged a
magnificent metal grill for his office. A
Jaw student brought his VW to the site
one quiet evening and hauled off four
sculpted pieces of dusty brick. Others
Samples of the small, ornamental artwork
which Mr. Wimsatt col/ecud in the rubble of
the destroyed buildings.
scavenged periodically to get the choicest
relics.

Most energetic of all was William K.
Wimsatt, professor of English. Mr. Wim-
satt appeared at dusk every evening for
two straight weeks in search of marble and
terra cotta icons. He collected thousands
of small, handcut multicolored tesserae
from Winchester's portico ceiling, along
with apple-sized terra cotta capitals which
bad come crashing down from between
the second and third story windows. The
capitals had been quickly covered with
rubble, and he was able to salvage only 7
out of a possible 176 capitals. He also
retrieved large bricks with classical egg
and dart edges. They will make "beautiful
book ends," said Mr Wimsatt.

"I wanted to take away one of those
huge pieces myself," said another teacher.
"But I thought it was illegal. And since
the only place I could put the things
would be my front yard, I didn't want an
open invitation to the local police of that
order. I've got enough problems."

Unaware of this controversy, workers
from the different contracting firms
continued and continue to work. Tbe
Stamford wreckers, who finished their job
October 2, took seven weeks to bring the
old ladies down. As legal owners of the
rubble, they sold the used bricks by the
thousands for such uses as antique fire-
places. An ignominious end for such
heroic buildings, perhaps, but not so bad
when you consider that their spirit will
thus live somewhere for a long time to
come.

Ralph Kaufman, foreman of the
Stamford wreckers, had never heard
about the dispute at Yale, though he had
consented to let people walk off with
some of the bricks. "I don't like these
kind of buildings anyway," he said.

Bob Schovanec, foreman for the firm
which will construct Marcel Breuer's
E & AS building for the next two years,
declined to comment. "Sure I was aware
they were supposed to be beautiful
buildings. But I'm staying neutral,:' he
said. "We have a job to do, and we do it."

Mr. Schovanec, who oversaw construction
of the Kline Science Center, said work:
was going well over there on Prospect
Street. He thought taking remains from
the site was against the Jaw, but agreed
that the old bricks were indeed "worth
more."

"You can't duplicate age," he said.
"That's the problem. You just can't. I
guess that's why people didn't want to
tear these buildings down."

U Winchester and North Sheff bad been
given 20 more years, Vincent Scully once
suggested, then Yale wouldn't have
dared to demolish them. But the big iron
ball on the 120-foot boom on the 70-ton
P & H wrecker finished it for all time,
unless those who saved all the pieces
want to get together some day to re-
assemble, from the fireplaces, hontyards
and libraries of New England, the skeletal
ghosts of Winchester and North Sheffield
Halls.


--Steven Weisman
Yale College



**Title: Truth**
**Page number(s): 2, 19**

There were two worlds at the New York
Film Festival. The Mods lined up outside
to see the glossy Scandinavian and Eastern
European sex farces, most of which were
filmed in naturalistic detail reminiscent of
Beaver Valley.

Meanwhile, in the back rooms, the
dedicated cineasts gathered to follow
a 14-film series entitled "The Social
Cinema in America." In such panels
as "Reality Cinema: Whose Truths?" and
"The Ethics of Documentary" they
tortuously debated questions on how to
depict reality. The best answers to those
questions-although not all would
acknowledge it-were implicit in the
superb film Far From Vietnam. But that
came at the conclusion of the Festival,
and first there were those debates.

Many of the American documentary
makers apparently feel that they can
attain their ideal of 'objectivity.' Cinema
verite is their slogan: the photographic
image is a record of reality in progress,
undisturbed by any point-of-view behind
the camera. For them, the aesthetic goal of
'objectivity' corresponds exactly to the
ethical goal of 'truth.'

Donn Pennebaker, the maker of Don't
Look Back, a film on Bob Dylan, stood up
for 'objectivity.' Speaking at the "Reality
Cinema" discussion, he said that he had
refused to make Dylan walk through a
door twice to get a shot he had missed the
first time around. U the camera jiggles
because the cameraman laughed at a
joke, keep it in, Pennebaker advised, show
the jiggle to the audience. Anything else
would be 'dishonest.' A few network
people who admitted that they had redone
an occasional reaction shot were
ferociously berated.

The participants in the "Ethics" dis-
cussion a few days later were a little more
relaxed about their metaphysics. Occa-
sionally a panel member screwed up his
courage and admitted that every film
embodied a point-of-view. 'Dishonest' was
again thrown around a few times, but it
seemed to be a word used primarily to
describe the work of others.

One panelist cited a film about the
birth control controversy in Puerto Rico.
He thought the film was dishonest be-
cause the director had shot the pro-birth
control spokesman from below, in a
garden filled with sun-dappled trees and a
gently rustling soundtrack, but had used a
gravelly-voiced bishop as the anti-birth
control spokesman and bad forced this
bishop to squint into the sunlight while
being photographed hom above.

When pressed, this critical panelist
finally admitted that he really thought the
image was too gross and he himself would
have done it more subtly.

At this point, I began to think: that
the ethics of the documentary would be
Jess of a problem if the aesthetics were
more clearly understood.

It is tempting but insufficient to douse
this smoldering philosophizing with a
statement that all art is subjective. The
problem is particularly pressing in film-
making because it is the artistic medium
that at once conveys the sense of truth
most strongly and at the same time the one
in which that truth can most easily and
subtly be manipulated.

Some panelists felt that the entire prob-
lem could be solved by simply giving all
people education in the techniques of
film-making, perhaps along the Jines of
How to Lie With Statistics; but this does
not seem to be the solution.

Panelists in both discussions seemed
to assume that point-of-view automatically
(continuttd on pagt! 19)




**Kenneth Haigh: Actor, Director**
**Author: Daniel Yergin**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
41 The New Journal I October 15, 1967 
Kenneth Haigh: Actor 
Kenneth Haigh: Director 
By Daniel Yergin 
The time was May of 1956; the place was 
the Royal Court Theater; and the event, 
the premier of a play that has since 
been said to hold the same importance 
to the modern theater as the assassination 
of the Archduke in 1914 does to the 
history of World War I. 

With the premier of Look Back in 
Anger by John Osborne, the domination 
of the stage by the older sirs and dames 
crumbled and the term "Angry Young 
Man• dropped down over the English 
scene like a huge canvas tarpaulin. Every-
body in the nation had to struggle · 
beneath that classification, from Osborne 
and his main character Jimmy Porter, a 
dissatisfied member of the working class 
who has risen to the rank of candy con-
cessionnaire in a Midlands cinema, to 
people like Harold Wilson and perhaps 
even extending to Hugh Lloyd-Jones, 
Regius professor of classics at Oxford. 

High on the list of the Angry went the 
name of Kenneth Haigh, the young actor 
who bad played Jimmy Porter. Haigh cer-
tainly bad the proper non-Establishment 
connections: he had come from Yorkshire, 
where his father had been a coal miner 
and his mother Irish; he attended a 
grammar school and then later came down 
to study at the Central School of Dramatic 
Art in London not from Oxford or 
Cambridge but from a few years of boxing 
in the army. 

However easily the label seemed to fit, 
it was and is unfair to Haigh. Since boy-
hood be has been faF more concerned with 
being an actor than with being angry, and 
his own career differs considerably from 
the raging inactivity of Jimmy Porter. 
He has disciplined himself so that he can 
combine great intellectuality with great 
feeling. 

Haigh is now at Yale as a member of 
the Drama School's Repertory Company, 
and he is directing John Ford's 'Tis Pity 
She's A Whore, which opens next week. 
Haigh is not quite stocky. He moves at 
a quick, disciplined pace. There is also 
a quality of toughness about him. In the 
proper circumstances, say a motion 
picture fight scene, Haigh could probably 
use his head as a lightning-quick battering 
ram, suffering but a minimum of injury 
for the effort. 

He takes being an actor very seriously. 
"In becoming an actor, I went through 
a growing confirmation in a religious 
sense," he says. "I was pledged and 
inaugurated into something until I finally 
reached a point where I couldn't chicken 
·OUt of it. 

"But I'm not an actor for fame or 
money, although I wouldn't say no to 
either. Much more to the point, I'm an 
actor because those are the gifts I have that 
enable me to learn more about life and 
about myself. 

"Every job is a further step in time and 
in my development," he adds. 

If so, then 'Tis Pity She's A Whore 
marks a major sidestep in his career, for 
this play represents his first directing 
effort. 

Haigh however prefers to emphasize the 
continuity of this venture. "Why not?" he 
asks. "Over the years I've had the pull 
and the urge, and it's time to start. A good 
actor has the director's element in him. If 
he is really humble and open, he 
contributes to his own direction, to where 
he belongs in the play. If be has the 
instinct." 

Last spring at a cocktail party, Haigh 
was talking with Robert Brustein, dean 
of the Drama School. When Brustein 
mentioned that 'Tis Pity would be staged 
in the fall, Haigh casually said he would 
enjoy directing it. 

The party broke up, Haigh went home, 
and an hour later Brustein phoned and 
asked, "Why don't you do it?" 

Haigh read and re-read the play during 
the summer while working first on a 
Kirk Douglas movie in New York City 
and then while doing a television play of 
D. H. Lawrence's "The Prussian Soldier" 
for the B.B.C. He communicated exten-
sively with the set designer but wasn't 
able to fully visualize the play until he 
returned to New Haven and began work-
ing with the actors. 

Because he believes that an audience 
should not be told in advance what to 
expect and how to react, Haigh is 
reluctant to talk about how be will stage 
Ford's play, a Jacobean tragedy of about 
1630 which deals with the incestuous love 
between a brother and a sister. 

But he will talk about what the play 
represents and why he was drawn to it. 
"The play is about things that are 
happening today, right now at this hour 
and in this country and in this city.,. 

The theme, he says, is dissent: "A man 
wills a crime against a society-if he 
cannot have his love, then to hell with 
society. This is about us, about people in 
an utterly conformist and madly John 
Birch society." 

Haigh has an affinity for characters who 
want to make their own decisions and 
thus set themselves against the established 
order. In addition to Jimmy Porter, he 
played the lead in New York in Albert 
Camus• Caligula, Jerry in the London 
production of the Zoo Story, and last 
spring the title role in Robert Lowell's 
adaption of Prometheus Bound at the 
Drama School. 

The language of 'Tis Pity She's A Whore 
also attracted Haigh: "It's the power of 
the verse, it's high poetic inspiration," be 
says. "Verse carries more meaning, it 
dramatizes philosophy; it has ambiguity." 

The source of this attraction seems to 
go to the very roots of Haigb's personality. 
Drama critic Kenneth Tynan once noted 
the "bristling, rhetorical energy" that goes 
into a Haigh performance. 

This energy characterizes the man him-
self. But off-stage it seems tenser; for 
there's a sense of compression about 
Haigh, of energy held tight within him 
only by an equally posed force of energy 
without, and it seems that at any moment 
this internal energy might burst into 
bombast or explode into a superb 
performance or suddenly let loose in a 
deadly snap. 

Haigh's ability to put his own energy 
to the service of verse became perfectly 
clear last spring during an informal 
poetry reading in the living room of 
Trumbull Master Ronald Dworkin. A 
group of students and faculty sat down in 
the room with Haigh, Robert Lowell and 
Jonathan Miller. Miller primarily pro-
vided a running commentary. Lowell, 
reaching for one book and then another, 
and Haigh did most of the poetry 
reading in response to the suggestions of 
the other people in the room. 

Haigh would read a poem, and Lowell 
would say, "Kenneth, read that line again; 
it's agony, it's marvelous," and Haigh 
would read it again, and then Lowell 
would read, mostly from other people:s 
verse. 

Then Haigh said that he'd like to read 
one of Eliot's Quartets. People were trans-
fixed by what they beard, by what Haigh 
was doing with the poetry. "He wasn't an 
actor reading the lines," said Dworkin, 
"but somebody trying as hard as he could 
to get inside the poem. Kenneth was 
tremendously affecting and moving and 
so intelligent." 

Haigh is demanding that the actors in 
'Tis Pity She's A Whore get inside their 
lines. In this sense, he's a "new critic" 
actor; that is, be rejects the Method ap-
proach in which an actor supposedly 
brings his own experience to bear. Early 
in the rehearsals for 'Tis Pity, he told the 
cast that anyone who bad committed inces~ 
with his sister and then killed her should 
step forward. No one stepped forward. 
Haigh then said that the actors would have 
to concern themselves with getting into 
the play, with translating not their own 
experience but the experience in Ford's 
lines. 

It was Haigh's energy put into Lowell's 
poetry that contributed so much to his 
performance as Prometheus. Curiously, in 
1960 Robert Brustein wrote in the New 
Republic that Haigh as Caligula had 
"achieved the solitariness necessary to the 
Promethean rebel." 

Haigh spent sixteen months playing 
Jimmy Porter in Look Back in Anger, but 
far fewer than that number of weeks as 
Prometheus; yet he regards that latter role 
as one of the great peaks of his acting 
career. 

"To tackle and unlock the mind of a 
great modern American poet coming to 
terms with a great work, a stirring and 
exciting tragedy, must be like eight years 
in the best university in the world," Haigh 
says. "It made me grow. It challenged all 
my techniques. 

"It drained me and elated me and 
brought into sharp focus through the great 
clarity of Lowell my fragmented feelings 
about the world I live in, and showed me 
how tragic it is. Prometheus is engaged in 
an unreasonable effort to free himself 
and to learn to love, against all odds and 
with no prizes. Prometheus, the thinking 
man, the freeing man, still bound." 

There is a sad side for Haigh to his 
experience as Prometheus. Because of the 
short run of the production, he knew 
from the beginning that his journey into 
the role and thus his learning about him-
self would be sharply limited: 

"It was like a still birth in that way," he 
says. "There was a post-natal depression 
that affected the entire company." 

"When it was over I just got the hell 
out of here." He stops and then says, "No; 
I went out and got drunk, I think." 


**The Success and Tragedy of Richard Lee**
**Author: John Wilhelm**
**Page number(s): 5**

51 The New Journal I October 15, 1967 
The Success and 
Tragedy of Richard Lee 
By John Wilhelm 
JOHN WILHELM graduated from Yale 
College last June. He has lived most of his 
life in Virginia; for the lart three years he 
has been a community organizer in New 
Raven's Hill neighborhood. He is now a 
full-time volunteer for the Hill Parents 
Association. 

Introduction 
Summer 1967 was too much for liberals 
in America. When Watts exploded in 
1965, they blamed it on the 400-year 
oppression of American Negroes. The 
more widespread uprisings of 1966 pro-
duced doubts, but liberal America still 
maintained that the basic· causes were 
sociological, not criminal. 

But 1967's nationwide violence bas 
produced a new schizophrenia in the 
liberal mind. 

Whatever illusions the American people 
once had about a swift end to the war in 
Vietnam have disappeared. A new band of 
black revolutionaries has appeared at 
home, and every day this summer brought 
new suspicions that the black masses are 
folJowing their advice. Revolution abroad 
and insurrection at home: these two crises 
together pose too serious a threat to 
American stability. 

Liberal rhetoric continues, more hesi-
tantly, to assign much of the blame to the 
poverty in which one-third of America 
lives. But the suspicion grows that the 
black people have taken advantage of 
their deprivation to wreak unnecessary 
and wanton havoc. Many well-intentioned 
and capable people are working bard to 
eradicate ghettoes; "riots" simply set the 
cause back, Jiberals believe. 

In New Haven the schizophrenic re-
sponse to black rebeUion has become 
sharply defined. Liberalism has been in 
power for 14 years, and the city has be-
come nationally famous for its efforts to 
solve the urban crisis. Nevertheless, the 
city's ghettoes blew up in mid-August. 

The immediate spark for the distur-
bance was typical: a white snack bar 
owner on Congress A venue, in the Hill 
section, shot a young Puerto Rican late 
one Saturday afternoon. Puerto Ricans 
and blacks in the Hm erupted that night. 
Sunday afternoon both local and state 
police, equipped with rifles, shotguns, tear 
gas, and MACE (a new aerosol-spray 
nerve gas), deployed in large numbers in 
the city's ghettoes. That night violence 
spread throughout the city. By the time it 
stopped Wednesday night, millions of 
dollars of damage had been done, count-
less stores looted, and 500 people arrested. 

Black militants were bitter. They could 
have stopped the violence, they said, if 
Mayor Richard Lee had kept a series of 
agreements made and immediately broken 
Sunday. City Hall says the militants did 
not have enough influence among their 
own people to stop it. 

The city's basic policy was to seal off 
the black and Puerto Rican areas and 
arrest anyone who moved. Ghetto leaders 
say the people felt they were being 
counter-attacked by police, and that this 
provocation made the violence much more 
serious than it might have been. 

In late September Community Progress 
Inc., the Mayor's anti-poverty program, 
released its annual report. It was prefaced 
by a statement calied "Violence and CPl." 
Many of the "disadvantaged," the 
report said, have taken heart from New 
Raven's public dedication to progress. 
Too many, however, "look out on a world 
where their people still live in the worst 
parts of town, hold the poorest-paying 
JObs, suffer most from disease, are looked 
down on and shunned." CPI declared 
renewed war on the "privation and frustra-
tion and anguish whose continuance can 
mean recurrent violence and threats of 
violence in this and every other city." 

These sections of the CPI analysis are in 
the. best l.iberaJ tradition of recognizing 
baste soctal problems. There is a quite 
different side to the report, however; it 
reads almost as if two different people 
wrote it. 

Most of the rioters, it says, were "teen-
age hooligans" with "a thirst for revelry"; 
they were a tiny minority of the ghetto 
population. "Few if any of the incidents of 
the four days bespoke any widespread 
discontent. There is no basis for reading 
into the four-day ftareup (as a few have 
done) an Inner City-wide indictment of 
the physical and human-renewal efforts 
of 14 years." 

· 
Furthermore, "the fact is that City Hall 
and CPI are the chief militants in the 
Inner City crisis. The most strident critics 
... rarely address themselves to the most 
difficult, vexing task of meeting urgent 
day-to-day needs." 

This despite the fact that the most publi-
cized "strident critic" is Fred Harris, 
whose Hill Parents Association ran four 
CPI-funded programs this summer. CPI 
workers in the Hill readily admit the 
programs were a huge success, in particu-
lar because they were planned, adminis-
tered, and staffed almost entirely by the 
blacks and Puerto Ricans of the Hill. 

This is the liberal response to New 
Raven's rebellion. The basic sources are 
still recognized; but the Lee administration 
is unwilling to admit that anything more 
than demagogery and teenage hoodlumism 
really caused it. 

The Mayor fully intends to lend reality 
to that analysis by eliminating the 
"demagogues." Since the August uprising 
the liberal Lee administration has been 
working with that most conservative of 
governmental institutions, the FBI. Early 
this month a Federal grand jury 
subpoenaed Fred Harris and other black 
militants. Local police leaked to the press 
that the object is to put them in jail. 

Mayor Lee is making his choice. 

Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a leading 
Kennedy liberal, succinctly defined that 
choice in a speech to the Americans for 
Democratic Action last month: liberals, 
he said, must "see more clearly that their 
essential interest is in the stability of the 
social order, and that ... it is necessary to 
seek out and make much more effective 
alliance with political conservatives who 
share that concern ... " 

What Moynihan suggests nationally 
the country's most liberal Mayor is carry-
ing out locally: the "essential interest" is 
not justice but stability. Why has Mayor 
Lee made that tragic choice? Why does he 
cooperate in the effort to jail the man 
whose organization did more with 
$45,000 in one summer to involve the 
hard-core poor in constructive self-help 
programs than CPI does in a year with 
over $6 million. 

The answer lies in an examination of 
the forces the Mayor has brought together 
to keep liberalism in power. 


**[No Title]**
**Author: [No Author]**
**Page number(s): 6**

61 The New Journal! October 15, 1967 
The destruction of the Oak Street neighbor-
hood, New Hoven's worst slum, was the Lee 
administration's first redevelopment project. 
A typical Oak Street scene, taken in 1956, 
is below. Several hundred low-income 
families, black and whiu, were moved out,· 
in their place went an expressway, office 
buildings, parking lots, and the luxury apart-
ment towers shown at bollom. A two-bed-
room apartment in Madison Towers, rear, 
costs /rom $238 to $291 per month, without 
heat and hot water; three bedrooms in the 
newer Crown Towers, foreground, goes for 
$510 a month including utilities. 

Richard C. Lee was in the 1950's an 
extraordinary mayor. Liberal America bad 
to sit out the quiescent Eisenhower years, 
its radical cutting edge sapped by 
McCarthyism, its new blood shut off by 
the silent generation. Liberals roused 
themselves just often enough to cheer 
Adlai Stevenson on to defeat; the years 
between were lean. 

One of the few bright spots on the na-
tional horizon was New Haven, a middle-
sized industrial city then noted mostly as 
the site of Yale University. When Dick Lee 
became mayor in 1953, on his third try 
for the job, be did for a city of 160,000 
what Stevensonians had failed to do for the 
country: he brought liberalism to power. 

Lee has never been a Stevenson-style 
egghead. He is, on the contrary, a political 
genius who also happens to sincerely 
believe that American cities must be 
rebuilt. 

Lee came out of a working-class Irish 
neighborhood in New Haven, worked his 
way up through the local Democratic 
Party, and received his polish and fine~e 
as director of the Yale News Bureau. In his 
14 years as mayor-and he will win an 
eighth term this fall-Lee has completely 
reshaped local politics and adapted it to 
his drive to rebuild the city. 

When Lee started in 1953, Washington 
was not, as it became during the New 
Frontier, a playground for bright, sharp 
young liberals. Lee was able to bring a 
talented group of high-powered, some-
times visionary, young men to New Haven 
-the kind who worked for John 
Kennedy and now flock to the swollen 
staff of Robert Kennedy, or who find a 
spot in the liberal refuges still left in 
Johnson's Washington. 

This group--Lee gleefully called the 
building they worked in the "Kremlin"-
was beaded until 1961 by Edward Logue. 
Lee and his young hot-shots got in early 
on the Federal urban money grab-bag. 
William F. Buckley pointed out a year 
ago that if every American city got the 
amount of per-capita Federal money New 
Haven brought back from Washington, the 
national budget for urban programs alone 
would be something like $146 billion. 

New Raven's out-of-proportion suc-
cess at landing Federal money is no 
accident; by the time other cities were 
waking up to the New Frontier and the 
Great Society, Lee and his Kremlin were 
veterans at the politics and the red tape of 
extracting money from Washington. 

Lee's planners have not only bad more 
money than any other city to work with; 
they have also had greater political free-
dom. By using redevelopment and later 
the war on poverty as his tools, Lee has 
completely reshaped the power bases 
of the New Haven Democratic Party. 

When Lee assumed office in 1953, 
power within the party was split between 
John Golden, the aging Irish boss who is 
now Democratic National Committeeman 
from Connecticut, and Arthur Barbieri, 
the new Town Chairman who brought 
dissident Italians into the Democratic 
fold. 

Lee has let those men keep the tradi-
tional party organization and traditional 
patronage sources like the Public Works 
Department. 

His stategy has been to bring new 
muscle into the Party-muscle which 
ultimately is much more important than 
the old-line ward organization which 
Barbieri still runs. 

Unlike old-style reformers, Lee made 
no attempt to capture the traditional city 
structure; he doesn't even control the 
Board of Aldermen, although all of its 33 
members are Democrats. 

Lee has his people in these institutions, 
but the basic strategy of control is much 
simpler; be just created another city 
government parallel to and eventually 
above the old one. It's not in the City 
Charter, but Lee's private government is 
what is shaping the city. 

This new government is the Redevelop-
ment Agency and the complex of organi-
zations around it, plus since 1962 Com-
munity Progress, Inc., the local anti-
poverty program. At the head is the 
Development Administrator, who in fact 
is the deputy mayor. 

Logue occupied this post until 1961; 
L. Thomas Appleby, who had the job for 
four years, and Melvin J. Adams, who has 
it now, both started under Logue in the 
Kremlin. The actual boss of this whole 
complex is, of course, the Mayor. 

This highly paid, well-staffed, sophisti-
cated bureaucracy has assumed control of 
New Haven. It makes all important de-
cisions about the shape of the city: which 
stores occupy the downtown, which in-
dustries get new plants, what highways go 
where and who gets new houses. It has 
a monopoly of information and expertise, 
so that whoever challenges it can neither 
disprove what it says nor criticize its 
future plans. 

Traditional government agencies cannot 
compete: many of the non-salaried alder-
men, who lack even secretarial help, did 
not even read the 1967 city budget before 
they passed it. While the city bas done well 
in school construction, which falls under 
the Redevelopment Agency, the educa-
tional program itself-which is under the 
Board of Education-has made little 
significant progress. 

Allan Talbot, in his book The Mayor's 
Game (published early this year), provides 
an excellent account of Lee's techniques 
in transferring power from the traditional 
city government to his private bureau-
cracy. 

What is important, however, is not 
the politics by which this was done-
although it was a brilliant piece of work-
but the implications of this power 
transfer. 

Lee's private government has provided 
him with a vast patronage pool, financed 
not by local taxes but by Federal and 
foundation money. The Board of Alder-
men bas been rendered impotent so that 
the people cannot make their views felt 
at the polls short of throwing out their 
apparently impregnable Mayor. 

Lee has tied his nationally-known 
liberal image to his renewal programs; and 
the agencies that run those programs act 
as one of the biggest and most efficient 
public relations organizations any 
politician ever had. 

The most important fact about this new 
power, however, is that it has integrated 
the city government with the real powers 
in New Haven life: the banks, big business, 
and Yale. It is these groups who give 
Mayor Lee decisive backing both in the 
city and within the Democratic Party. 

Corporate power has traditionally left 
municipal politics to its own devices, be-
cause local government has rarely iilter-
fered with business. With the advent of an 
administration that proposed to rebuild 
New Haven, that relationship had to 
change. 

Yale was the first corporate power in the 
city to recognize the potential of the Lee 
program. The Mayor had become friends 
with top Yale people during his 10-year 
tenure at the University's News Bureau. 
A. Whitney Griswold, the late President 
of Yale, was vital in rallying University 
support for Lee, from the Corporation on 
down. One of Lee's unparalleled feats at 
the News Bureau was getting Griswold on



**Title: The Yale-New Haven Connection**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
71 The New Journal! October 15, 1967 
the covers of both Time and Newsweek 
the same week. 

His Yale connections are very important 
to Lee, personally as well as politically. 
His dress and mannerisms reflect his Ivy 
League tutelage. The Mayor regularly gets 
his afternoon rubdown at the Payne-
Whitney gym, and Mory's is a frequent 
luncheon spot, as well as a regular location 
for political confabs. 

The relationship is not emphasized to 
the working people of New Haven-anti-
Yale sentiment is rife in town-but when 
he speaks to Yale groups, Lee likes to use 
phrases like "When I was at Yale ... " 

Most of Lee's numerous enthusiastic 
supporters-those in print range from 
Yale Divinity School Prof. William Lee 
Miller's embarrassingly panegyric The 
Fifteenth Ward and the Great Society to 
Talbot's more analytic The Mayor's Game 
-like to emphasize that Yale's support for 
Lee stems from his liberal social philo-
sophy. 

Talbot quotes former Law Sc~ool Dean 
Eugene V. Rostow as finding in the Mayor 
"a simple, yet intense moral purpose ... 
He was attacking fundamental ills of our 
time, the moral, economic, and social 
injustice of the slums." 

The relationship bas its more concrete, 
mutually advantageous aspects. Yale likes 
to be surrounded by a clean, bright, 
modern downtown area. A Yale education 
rests on an upper-class style of life and 
on the consideration of intellectual prob-
lems in isolation from the outside world. 
Yale's very architecture-forbidding stone 
walls, moats, heavy locked gates, and 
opulent, comfortable, self-contained in-
teriors-embodies this approach to 
education. 

Beginning in the early 1950's the Oak 
Street and Dixwell slums pushed tighter 
and tighter against the University; and 
Yale considered neither the slums nor the 
shabby downtown area proper neighbors. 

Mayor Lee's first redevelopment project 
dealt with part of this problem. When 
Oak Street, the city's worst slum, was torn 
down in the middle 1950's and replaced 
with the turnpike connector, a series of 
new office buildings and stores, and two 
of the most nondescript luxury apartment 
buildings anywhere-Madison and Uni-
versity Towers-Yale thus had its most 
discomfiting neighbor excised. 

The downtown renewal project finished 
that part of the job by installing Malley's, 
Macy's, a new bank, Paul Rudolph's park-
ing lot, and finally, after several years as 
a giant hole in the ground, the new Chapel 
Square shopping mall. 

Two more projects now on the drawing 
boards, one Yale's and the other the city's, 
will complete the encirclement of the Uni-
versity by an environment acceptable 
to it. 

The Mellon Art Gallery will take care 
of a pesky block of small stores and 
~partments along Chapel. The projected 
mner loop road wilt effectively isolate 
Yale from Dixwell and the rapidly ex-
panding black population in the Dwight 
neighborhood across Howe Street. It will 
also save the Medical School from the 
blacks and Puerto Ricans in the Hill. 

This loop, part expressway and part 
boulevard, will start from the 1-91 Trum-
bull Street exit, an engineering disaster, 
circle behind the Grove Street Cemetery 
and Payne-Whitney and go down Howe 
and Dwight to the turnpike connector, 
which is being extended, and then circle 
beyond the medical 5chool-bospital 
~mplex and join State Street, by then a 
SIX-lane road. 

To please Yale, which does not want 
Vassar's proposed Prospect Street site and 
the science complex to be cut off from 
the rest of the University, Lee has made 
a tentative agreement with Brewster to 
bury the Trumbull Street section of the 
loop underground. 

Another of the many instances of 
mutually beneficial cooperation between 
Yale and the Mayor is Yale's $3 million 
purchase of the old Hillbouse and Board-
man Commercial high schools, now the 
site of Morse and Stiles, in 1955 for a 
price much higher than market value. Lee 
got money needed for working capital; 
the large profit margin, and the city's free 
use of the schools until1958, helped 
overcome political opposition to the sale. 

Another piece of cooperation is in the 
offing if Vassar comes to New Haven and 
locates, as projected, on Prospect Street. 
Upper Winchester Avenue and Newhall 
Street, below Prospect Hill, are rapidly 
becoming serious slum areas, and Vassar 
wiU not tolerate a ghetto next to it. An 
employee of the Redevelopment Agency 
says that the area will be "cleaned out." 

Yale gains from its cooperation with 
the Mayor, then, by insuring the kind of 
clean, undisturbed surroundings it re-
quires for its methods of training the 
nation's leaders. 

The Lee administration has also given 
many Yale people the chance to dabble 
in local politics-examples are Law 
School Dean Louis Pollack on the Board 
of Education and University Secretary 
Reuben Holden as president of the board 
of CPl. 

Yale has generously repaid the Mayor 
for his help. The University's local politi-
cal and economic power are enormous, 
and both are solidly behind the Lee ad-
ministration. Yale has consistently 
bestowed upon Lee official praise and 
recognition. 

Yale faculty bas been an important 
resource for the Mayor for expertise, free 
advice, and image-building publicity. A lot 
of valuable publicity has also been 
generated for New Haven by Yale's 
practice of hiring famous architects to 
design its new buildings. 

In marked contrast to Yale, the banks 
and big businesses were slow in recog-
nizing Lee's value. Many influential 
businessmen viewed him for several years 
as a threat; all have now accepted him as a 
phenomenon here to stay, and most are 
enthusiastic supporters of his programs. 

To overcome business animosity, Lee 
first had to demonstrate to the retailers 
that a downtown location was ultimately 
more profitable than fleeing to the suburbs. 
The middle and upper classes, Lee argued, 
would shop downtown and eventually 
live there when his redevelopment 
program had done its job. The convincing 
wasn't easy, but Lee did it. For instance, 
when the Mayor decided to announce 
plans for the Church Street South project 
(the vacant land in front of the railroad 
station), he did it in a speech to the 
Chamber of Commerce. The 800-plus 
housing units there, he said, would be at 
least 90 percent middle-income and 
luxury housing; this would constitute a 
"captive market" for the new downtown 
shopping area. 

But it took the big businesses some time 
to come around. The man who helped Lee 
win the argument was Roger L. Stevens, 
who in addition to making an immense 
amount of money from real estate, also 
produces Broadway plays and contributes 
heavily to the national Democratic 
Party. He is President Johnson's adviser 
on the arts, and chairman of all sorts of 
national councils on the arts. The most 
legendary of Stevens' grandiose financial 
moves was in 1951, when be bought and 
sold the Empire State Building. 

Mayor Lee's redevelopment program is 
creating an area known as "University Park 
Dixwell" on Dixwell A venue, the city's oldest 
black neighborhood. The scene below which 
used to be the corner of Dixwell and Gregory 
Street, is typical of the houses low-income 
blacks lived in before redevelopment tore 
them down . .At bottom, is One Dixwell Plaw, 
which replaced some of the slums . .A one-
bedroom apartment in this project costs 
$139 per month. 

81 The New Journal I October 15, 1967 
Lee and Logue got Stevens to become 
the financier for the original four-block 
downtown commercial redevelopment. 
The obstacles were numerous. 

The small businessmen there were 
overwhelmed without too much difficulty, 
but the big problem was getting the big 
businesses in. 

Malley's, an old New Haven family 
firm, was convinced to buy into the new 
project. The real turning point, however, 
was when Macy's agreed to come to town; 
and once again Yale helped out. 

In 1962 the University lent Stevens 
$4.5 million for short-term financing. 
J. Richardson Dilworth, financial adviser 
to the Rockefellers, was on the Yale 
Corporation when the loan was approved. 
He was also on the board of Macy's, and 
a chain of events that began with a Dil-
worth-Lee meeting at Mory's culminated 
when Macy's agreed to build a $5 million 
store in downtown New Haven. Macy's 
arrival broke the back of local big 
business opposition to Lee's programs. 

Charles Abrams, in his book The City 
is the Frontier, explains in some detail 
how urban renewal enabling legislation-
which with a little gerrymandering the 
downtown project became eligible for-
guarantees large profits for big construc-
tions companies and lending institutions. 

Retailers, money-lending banks and 
insurance companies, and construction 
and real-estate interests all began to 
understand their opportunity. A whole 
new field for investment opened up to 
them--or would if they became Demo-
cratic Party backers. 

Fusco-Amatruda, for instance, a huge 
construction company based in New 
Haven, became the developer for the 
Chapel Square shopping mall; and Arthur 
Barbieri, the Democratic Town Chairman, 
landed the Chapel Square rental agents 
job for his real estate company. 

It is since 1961, when he came the 
closest to losing an election, that Mayor 
Lee has demonstrated to the corporations 
that he is right: there is big money to be 
made in his urban renewal program. 

It is also since 1961 that the Democratic 
Party has demolished the Republicans in 
New Haven. In 1965 Lee pulled down 
the largest victory margin ever for a 
New Haven Mayor. And the Republicans 
can't seem to raise any money for this 
fall's mayoralty election. 

With Yale and the big business support, 
the Democratic Party now runs New 
Haven-but it is not the same Democratic 
Party that captured the mayoralty for Dick 
Lee 14 years ago. 

The Mayor is fond of saying that when 
he and his Kremlin started, they didn't 
know where they were going or how they 
were going to get there-just that they 
wanted to rebuild their city. 

It is clear that Lee had no idea what his 
Democratic Party would look like after 
14 years of his administration. It is not 
true that he set out on his renewal pro-
gram simply to solidify his political power; 
power, of course, is important to him, 
but equally important is his belief that 
he is rebuilding New Haven. 

This drive for the "new New Haven" 
began with the redevolpment program in 
1953. 

After nine years of what the city calls 
"physical renewal," Lee decided that only 
half the job was being done. The result 
was $2.5 million from the Ford Founda-
tion in 1962 to start Community Progress, 
Inc., the city's anti-poverty program. 

Once again, New Haven pioneered; when 
the Federal government opened the Office 
of Economic Opportunity in 1964, many 
of its initial programs were modeled on 
CPI's experience. Today the Federal 
government provides over 80 percent of 
CPI's $6 million-plus annual budget. CPI, 
Lee says, does the job physical renewal 
neglects: "human renewal." 

In both of these programs, "coalition" 
is the key word. Lee's approach is the most 
comprehensive attempt in the United 
States to implement the basic liberal theory 
of change: that those in power will use 
their power to significantly improve the 
lot of the disadvantaged, once they are 
made aware that it is in their self-interest 
to do so. 

At bottom is the assumption that the 
entire community, rich or poor, black 
or white, shares a common interest. 

Fourteen years of redevelopment have 
yet to prove that this is true. The face of 
New Haven is being dramatically changed, 
but the corporations have changed it by 
building the things business finds profit-
. able or necessary: big stores, expressways 
and parking lots that service these stores, 
office buildings, a hotel, and middle-
income and luxury housing. 

All of these projects are money-makers. 
Only one kind of construction is seriously 
needed in the city that is not profitable: 
low-income housing. 

The poor people have simply been 
moved from place to place. When Lee and 
his Kremlin tore down the Oak Street 
slum, most of its white residents headed 
for Fair Haven or Wooster Square and 
the blacks went to Dixwell. 

Redevelopment followed them to 
Wooster Square and Dixwell, and it is on 
its way to the Hill, Fair Haven, and 
Newhallville. The extension of the turn-
pike connector is taking care of the 
Legion Ave. area, perhaps the worst slum 
pocket in the city. 

Because discrimination in housing is 
still widespread and blatant, the problems 
for blacks and Puerto Ricans have intensi-
fied. The non-white population has nearly 
doubled since 1960, from about 20 percent 
to an estimated 35 per cent this year. 

Redevelopment Agency figures say that 
the city has relocated 6776 households, 
4785 of them since 1960. This figure does 
not include families who don't wait for 
the Relocation Agency, but move out 
when they hear the bulldozers are on their 
way. 

Of those families relocated since 1960, 
2076 have been white and 1794 black; 
this means that, by the Redevelopment 
Agency's own admission, less than five 
per cent of the city's white people but 
almost 30 per cent of the blacks have been 
moved. A Yale planning student's study, 
based on 1965 figures, calculated that 40 
per cent of the total Negro population bad 
been relocated. 

What was built for these people? In 
mid-1965 redevelopment had erected 
1676 housing units; 700 were luxury 
apartments and 976 were middle-income. 
More in those categories have been 
opened since 1965. A low-income public 
housing project with about 25 units is 
about to open in Fair Haven, and about 
100 other poor families have received 
rent supplements. 

Beyond that, nothing has been done 
since the big housing public projects were 
built in the late 1940's and early 'SO's 
except some housing for the elderly; only 
token numbers of low-cost units are even 
on the drawing boards. 

The attempt to relocate tenants from 
the path of Route 34, the turnpike con-
nector extension, points up the seriousness 
of the housing crisis for low-income 
families particularly blacks. The Legion 
A venue area is being torn down for this 
road, which will be one of the widest roads 
in the world, with six lanes of traffic, an 
immense grassy median strip, and a wide 
bank on either side-even though it 
runs through the middle of the city. 

This neighborhood bas the biggest 
concentration in New Haven of large 
families on welfare. The State Highway 
Department, which is building the road, 
had hoped that relocation could be 
finished by this fall so construction could 
start, but over one-half of the families are 
still there even though the state now 
owns all the properties. 

The buildings are falling to pieces; the 
first week of October saw two major 
fires in these apartments. Relocation 
officials admit in private that there is just 
no place to put these families. A top 
official of the State Welfare Department 
said in Hartford last year that some large 
welfare families have already bad to move 
out of New Haven because there is no 
place for them to live. 

It is clear that the interests of the poor 
have not been properly represented in the 
redevelopment program. CPI, some 
people hoped before they saw it in action, 
would overcome this problem by organiz-
ing the people to make their needs known. 

Allan Talbot claims in The Mayor's 
Game that a new political force-"direct 
citizen action"-is at work in the city. 
CPI, Talbot says, has "played key behind-
the-scenes roles in most of the recent 
stir and action." In its first four years, 
according to this analysis, CPI invested 
$1,639,574 in "neighborhood organiza-
tion." 

The bulk of this "neighborhood 
organization" money in fact went for 
the CPI neighborhood offices, which in 
no sense organize neighborhoods. CPI is 
a very tightly administered, top-down 
organization, with every major decision 
made by the executive staff and the Mayor. 
The neighborhood offices simply carry 
out the directives from downtown. What 
little community organization CPI in-
dulges in has been designed to create 
pressure for goals selected in advance by 
the CPI staff. 

CPI, like the development program, is 
a coalition of those in the community 
who already have power. These power 
groups do not believe that those who 
dominate society are responsible for the 
depressed condition of the poor and the 
blacks; implicit in their programs is the 
assumption that the poor are where they 
are because something is wrong with 
them, whether it be lack of education, 
poor motivation, or something else. 

The CPI approach denies that power-
lessness is an important factor in the 
ghettoes; and it denies, by its top-down 
control and its predominantly white 
middle-class policy makers, that the poor 
ought to have an important voice in 
programs designed to help them. 

Some individuals have been able to 
begin the climb out of poverty with CPI 
help, but the organization will never 
significanty affect large groups so long as 
it tries to pull individuals out and up 
rather than mobilizing the masses of the 
poor in their own behalf. 

Maurice Sykes, a black CPI neighbor-
hood worker, put the problem succinctly 
last month: CPI, be said, has "done a 
helluva job, but they overlooked the 
grass roots." 

All of Mayor Lee's vaunted programs 
overlook the fact that the economic struc-
ture of the United States has always 
rested on an underclass. Previous im-
migrant groups have been able to rise 
in the society only because they were 
replaced by another group of immigrants. 
. In this way the Italians replaced the 
Insh as the lower class in urban industrial 
centers, and as the blacks and Puerto


**New Haven: A City in Crisis**
**Author: [Not specified]**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10 I The New Journal! October 15, 1967 
Ricans moved to the cities they replaced 
the Italians. 

Because there are no more new im-
migrant groups, and because this country 
is racist, the blacks and Puerto Ricans 
have remained on the bottom, along with 
some whites who didn't make it. There 
is no replacement group in sight. 

The implication, clearly, is that those 
who are poor now will remain that way 
unless the structure of the society is 
changed in some basic way. It is foolish 
to expect that programs run by those 
who have gained power in the present 
structure will do anything but perpetuate 
that structure. 

Large corporations are making a lot of 
money these days, and there is no reason 
to expect them to disturb the status quo 
when they profit so much from it. 

If those who make decisions now con-
tinue to have that power, the poor will 
remain where they are: on the bottom. 

If the poor are going to have some voice 
in the decisions that affect their lives, 
they are going to have to take power. 

No one is going to give it to them. 

This is the fatal shortcoming of the 
Lee programs for change. They are based 
on the liberal assumption that a com-
munity of interest exists between the 
poor and the powerful. That is demon-
strably untrue, for in New Haven the lot 
of the poor has not improved despite the 
millions of dollars spent on renewal 
programs. 

The tragic fact about all this is that 
Mayor Lee does n·ot understand what is 
wrong with his programs. lie is fond of 
saying in public that "if New Haven is a 
model city, then God help urban 
America"; but he is at bottom convinced 
that he bas done well. 

Talbot quotes him as replying, when 
asked if he regretted passing up the 1958 
Senatorial nomination which eventually 
went to Thomas Dodd, "Sure, every once 
in a while l have my regrets, but ... 
I've already done something that few 
men will ever do--l've rebuilt a city, not 
just any city, mind you, but a city I love." 

There is clearly something amiss in 
that city. The "riots" pointed up the prob-
lem, but Dick Lee does not understand 
what the problem is. When the Mayor 
swept into office, a bright star in a dismal 
decade for liberals, he stirred hope in the 
hearts of the poor as well as middle-class 
men of good will. The goal was, he said, 
nothing less than a "slumless city." It 
is significant that Melvin Adams, Lee's 
current Development Administrator, said 
last year that the "slumless city" wasn't, 
after all, possible; "controlled slums" is 
actually the goal. 

Why the current uneasiness? The war 
in Vietnam has cut down funds for liberal 
domestic programs, and it bas also 
alienated many blacks because they bear 
such a disproportionate burden in the 
fighting. New Raven's programs are no 
longer unique in the country, as they were 
when Lee started in the 1950's, and it is 
becoming difficult for the city to get such 
an out-of-proportion share of Federal 
money. 

Many of Lee's sharpest administrators 
have moved on, part of a new group of 
floating anti-poverty and renewal profes-
sionals who shift from city to city not 
because the work is done in one place 
but because their personal ambitions 
dictate that they keep climbing in the 
"human resources business," as Mitchell 
Sviridoff, the first executive director of 
CPI, calls it. 

Sviridoff has excelled in this game of 
personal advancement through fighting 
poverty: be left his job at CPI to head 
New York's new Human Resources 
Administration-at a substantial salary 
raise-and now, after a little over a year 
there, he is resigning to take a $50,000 
job as a Ford Foundation vice president. 

There are many other examples; New 
Haven is a training ground for renewal 
administrators all over the country. Logue 
this summer resigned as chief of the 
Boston Redevelopment Authority to run 
for mayor of that city; L. Thomas Apple-
by, who followed Logue as Development 
Administrator, now runs renewal in 
Washington, D.C.; the list is practically 
endless. 

These factors have all contributed to 
New Raven's unrest. Basically, however, 
the problem is very simple: the years of 
rhetoric by the Lee administration have 
simply never been fulfilled. CPI's training 
programs are a stopgap which help only 
a small percentage of the poor. 

Redevelopment may be rebuilding the 
city, but its major effect on all but the 
well-off is to tighten the housing market. 

The poor have not been effectively orga-
nized to make their needs felt in the city; 
they have depended on the good will of 
the Lee administration. 

They have been forced to depend on 
good will, because they have nothing to 
say about what happens. Lee's govern-
ment is a tightly-run operation, with every 
major decision cleared over his desk. 

Information about the city's plans is kept 
secret until final decisions are made. 

Consensus is the goal and too often the 
reality; plans are made not by discussion 
and disagreement but by administrative 
fiat. 

The director of a major service project 
in New Haven says that he constantly 
gets calls from the Mayor's office, saying 
"You guys take it easy over there. We're 
running this town." In that kind of 
administration the only disagreement 
tolerated is from those who already have 
significant power. The voices of the pro-
testing poor are shunted aside as quickly 
as possible. 


When the city holds Federally-required 
"public hearings" for some of its pro-
grams, Lee's officials can never understand 
why people protest. They usually return 
from these meetings shaking their heads 
and wondering "why those people don't 
understand ... why they're so unreason-
able." Then whatever plan was being 
aired goes ahead, on the assumption that 
the Mayor's people know best. 

It is ironic, in fact, that people at Yal~ 
make so much of the fact that they at 
last have a chance to participate construc-
tively in city politics. It is, after all, their 
University and their class of people for 
whom the city is being rebuilt. 

According to Allan Talbot, "New 
Raven's message to other cities is written 
in optimism ... It has demonstrated 
that the work of restoring our cities can 
be challenging, fruitful, and even fun. 
... New Haven shows that there can be 
nobility in action, that it is far better to 
participate than to watch." 

That would make ironic reading for 
the poor who are pleading with the Lee 
administration to let them run their own 
programs and rebuild their own neighbor-
hoods before it is too late. 

Dick Lee is hardly campaigning at 
all this fall, although he is running for his 
eighth term as Mayor of New Haven. 

This is, he says, a time of crisis, "no time 
for ordinary politics." He can afford not 
to campaign this year, because his Demo-
cratic Party is supported by virtually every 
group in the city with any political power. 

The Republican Party has been reduced 
to a joke. There are two new sources of 
potential opposition in the city, but 
neither bas yet organized a sufficient 
political base to be a threat at the polls. 

The first of these new additions to the 
city's political scene is the American 
Independent Movement, which ran Yale 
sociology professor Robert Cook for 
Congress last fall as an independent. 

Cook polled a little over 4000 votes within 
New Haven. AIM is basically a white 
middle-class group, drawing its bard core 
from young professionals and intellectuals 
who have banded together because of a 
common anger with the condition of the 
country. 

AIM makes no bones about its radical 
opposition to America's policies, both 
foreign and domestic. Bob Cook, writing 
about the "riots" in New Haven, bluntly 
said "that the forces which control the 
community are in fact illegitimate, that 
their law and order are in fact illegal, and 
that at bottom their position rests upon 
force and violence." 

AIM presents an often incisive intel-
lectual analysis to back up this radical 
stance; but so far it has not done any real 
organizing, and it has failed to acquaint 
the community at large with its analysis 
and its program. 

For that reason AIM is powerless, and 
poses a political threat to no one. 

The other new force in New Haven 
politics is, of course, the angry black 
people. They have not yet organized 
themselves into a force which can con-
tend for power at the polls, but they have 
certainly made themselves felt politically. 

The message they carry-the message of 
Fred Harris, the quiet little man who is 
their most impressive leader, and of the 
nameless angry men on the streetcomers 
-is that if the white people can't solve 
the problems they had better just get out 
of the way and let the black people try. 

Harris' Hill Parents Association and 
its allies are a real challenge to those in 
power, and that is why they are being 
threatened with federal prosecution. The 
militant blacks have made it too clear 
that they understand that basic changes 
are necessary. 

The Lee administration has demon-
strated that a determined liberal can do 
everything possible to rebuild urban 
America, so long as he does not chal-
lenge the right of those in power to make 
the crucial decisions on priorities. 

The real powers-the corporations-
can, Lee has demonstrated, even grow to 
appreciate a liberal program. The Mayor 
has built a political coalition that rests 
on those who have money and resources-
and this coalition therefore does not 
include the blacks and the other poor 
people in New Haven. 

The tragedy of all this is that Richard 
C. Lee does not understand why his city, 
is racked with unrest. Lee is not evil; he 
is a sincere man who wants to make 
New Haven a better place for its people. 

The Mayor has used his political genius 
to wring everything possible out of those 
who hold power; but to step outside the 
existing structure simply does not occur 
to him. 

Lee has built his political career on the 
assumption that America as he knows it 
can solve its urban problems. The nation 
as a whole has certainly not demonstrated 
that this proposition is true; and neither 
has the Lee administration. 

Friends of the Mayor say he calls 
people over to him at cocktail parties 
now, and insists on telling them about all 
these up-start critics. He has been 
fighting for a better New Haven for 14 
years, the Mayor will say-and where 
have these critics been all that time? They 
just don't understand, he says. 

11 I The New Journal ! October 15, 1967 


**The Story of M**
**Page number(s): 11**

John Sack wrote most of the story of 
M Company, a group of men gone 
off to War, sitting in the garden of a 
Saigon hotel; but strangely enough, 
it was not until four months after his 
return to the United States that he 
first began to wonder how this same 
John Sack would have felt had he 
been fighting that War. 


**M: A Review**
**Author: Gerald Bruck**
**Page number(s): 12**

121 The New Journal I October 15, 1967 
The Story of M 
By Gerald Bruck 
M, by John Sack. New American Library. 
In a Southern airport several weeks ago, 
I ran into a GI named Jim, who eyed the 
typewriter I was carrying and asked with 
some bitterness if I was on my way back 
to college. As for Jim, he was on his way 
to Vietnam, he held the orders in an 
envelope he carried under one arm, be 
had twenty-one days with the home folks 
before be bad to go. Surprised and a little 
embarrassed to have run into the Ameri-
can Commitment, I asked if he saw any 
reason for the war. 

No, he said, he didn't. 

"Really?" I asked, adding that he must 
have some reason for risking his life and 
shooting at people. 

"I can't think of any," he murmured, 
omitting even the easy ones he must have 
heard a thousand times. 

Well, as he saw it, Jim said, he didn't 
have any choice. 

"You could not go," I said, and listed 
every way of not going I could think of, 
but Jim said no, be didn't have a choice. 

Not that anyone had asked him or his 
parents, and someone or something was 
extracting the highest price Jim could 
pay, but, well, yeah. 

He didn't want to go that much, either, 
he said. He bad learned all about these 
punji pits, jungle trick pits filled with 
poisoned, pointed steel-hard bamboo 
sticks that wrecked you, feet first. First 
the army made steel-soled shoes, but the 
enemy redesigned the pits so that the 
sticks came at the victim's feet from the 
sides as well as the bottom, and the army 
had phased out steel-soles. 

Jim knew about a million other mur-
derous things that lurked, ready for him, 
in the jungle, and they played on his mind. 

"Of course, the pay's not bad," he said 
all of a sudden, and if I fall into a punji 
pit and get out I get a purple heart." 

But be couldn't convince himself, and 
suddenly he turned to me and said he 
figured he'd make it though, in Vietnam, 
the real source of sorrow was trooping 
around the jungle "for a whole year in 
those baggy clothes", away from his 
mother, his father, brothers and sisters, 
and his girl, in that order. 

"Maybe you'll get wounded," I said 
as our jet sucked through the dark skies 
over South Carolina, "or your friends will 
be killed, and you'll turn into a right-
winger and go after people back here who 
didn't 'support' you all." 

"Yeah, maybe," he said, staring dully 
at a copy of Time magazine, and then he 
asked me if I knew how Scotch tasted, 
and ordered drinks with his friends. 

About two years ago a very humorous 
man named John Sack, who thrives on 
Contracliction, on sins against reason, 
was struck with the talk about our boys 
and decided be had hit on a big one. 

Harvard '51, he had started writing his 
first book-it concerned a Harvard team 
which had conquered a big South 
American mountain and lost some toes on 
the way down-while still on the Radclifie 
desk of the Crimson. He volunteered for 
the Korean war on the verge of induction, 
wrote for Stars and Stripes during his tour 
of duty, and later wrote a book about 
army life, making fun of it. 

Sack settled down to writing pieces for 
the New Yorker, but he couldn't get at 
the big Contradiction writing for them-
they harnessed his satire against trivial 
demons--and he became a producer for 
CBS in 1961. 

So this army contradiction came along, 
and he wrote a letter to Esquire. He had 
been reading about brave boys jumping 
out of helicopters, Sack reported, and he 
"just didn't dig it." The army was the 
army, lots of people knew what that was 
like. Maybe this war didn't lend itself to 
humor, maybe people were afraid of black 
humor, but Sack would try. He would 
quit CBS. He underestimated the expense 
that his approach-following a company 
of soldiers through basic training and 
their first battle in Vietnam-would 
entail, and Esquire thought about it quick 
and said yes. 

So Sack went off to mix with the men 
at Fort Dix, New Jersey, wrote part of it 
up for Esquire, and built a brilliant book 
out of it all, which was published last 
February, received rave reviews from all 
over, and sold "quietly," as the lingo goes. 

There is one copy at the Co-op. 

The most exciting trend in writing now-
adays is creative journalism, with its 
exhaustive examinations, its worship of 
the detail. The best of the "saturation 
journalists" make no claims to "objec-
tivity," however. They pick their details, 
and weave them into a quick, tight fabric, 
inserting an analytical line now and then. 

John Sack added a new dimension to 
the genre. Before M, the details consisted 
in the appearance of a person, a thing, 
an event; in the bottomless pit of past 
history, or background; in the visible 
actions, picked into pieces, described 
with microscopic intensity; and in the 
wild descent into hyperbole. Sack tells you 
what his subjects are thinking, and it 
transforms the work. M often reads like a 
novel: how can a reporter find out all 
these things? 

"It's simple," Sack announced trium-
phantly to Tom Wolfe, who came seeking 
the secret so that he could explain it to 
his college audiences. "It's so simple I 
can't get over it. You ask them. Then you 
have to judge whether they're telling the 
truth, if they're embellishing it, and how. 
Sometimes, the little things people say 
give away what they've been thinking for 
the last few minutes." 

People like Sack can ask their subjects, 
hey, what were you thinking?-and get 
away with it, because they stick around 
for a spell, and because they approach 
their subjects with humility. 

Over the summer, Sack shared a house 
on Long Island with David Halberstam, 
who covered South Vietnam for the New 
York Times during 1962 and '63, an 
adept just-the-facts-ma'am reporter, and 
once Sack mentioned he would like to 
write about the hippies, and wondered 
out loud what the best approach to his 
research would be. 

"You have to go in hard," replied the 
ex-Times man, ''you have to ask them hard 
questions and don't take any bullshit." 

"No man, no man," said Sack, "that's 
no way to get information here, you have 
to go in naked, I have to know if their 
way of living is better than mine, whether 
they have something to teach me." 

So Sack went into Fort Dix somewhat 
naked-not that he expected the army to 
remake him-and be found out about 
the guys, wrote down what they did and 
asked them what they were thinking. 

When he finally wrote it up, he drew on 
the two years of physics he had taken at 
Harvard, the result of an early interest 
in shooting things into outer space, and he 
put together a for-the-most-part 
exquisitely-crafted collage of people and 
time spans, laced with literary allusions, 
hyperbole, and stop-'em-cold phrases. 

The result is prose to surf on, an 
exhilarating journey into the absurd with 
real people doing this and that and crafty 
1 ohn Sack at the helm. 

Possibly the overwhelming ab-
surdity of rounding up an average bunch 
of guys and sending them to Vietnam-
but especially this bunch of guys, most of 
them inducted into the army-moved 
Sack to write after eight pages that "All 
this happened--do understand. Demirgian 
is real, so is everyone in this account, 
even the Chillicothe milkman ... " 

There was Smith, the religious soldier, 
who had seen a vision of himself as a 
missionary to all mankind when one wall 
of his father's barn had turned into a 
giant television screen, and who had 
joined the army as a test of God's wish 
that Smith refrain from killing. 

One morning in autumn, Smith had 
attached a thin piece of steel to his army 
rifle to be taught bayonet by a 
sergeant who knew the secret of man 
against man ... "So when I say what is 
the purpose of the bayonet," the 
Sergeant had explained loudly, "I want 
you all to yell, to kill! So what is the 
the purpose of the bayonet?" 

"To kill," Smith's acquaintances 
answered in deep embarrassment, the 
rifles in their hands like the reins of a 
runaway horse. 

When the rest of M caught on ("To kill 
-to kill-to kill"), Smith still could not, 
and finally he was praying beside his army 
cot: "And Father, I didn't have the spirit 
with the bayonet today. Father, may it be 
thy will to help me with the bayonet." 

Soon, with an interpretation of the com-
mandments by the army chaplain, Smith 
had come around. 

There was Prochaska, the soldier from 
Iowa who liked everything and everybody 
in his country, and joined the army "as 
other men might tithe to their church." 

One night, Prochaska was sitting out a 
weekend leave at a restaurant near the 
post, listening to "What We're Fighting 
For," his favorite song, on the juke box: 
Tell them that we're fighting for the 
old Red, White and Blue! 

Did they forget Pearl Harbor and 
Korea too? 

A not her flag must never fly above 
our nation's door ... 

Exactly, ... exactly, Prochaska thought. 

That is why he had enlisted-it would 
be Vietnam first, Thailand after that, 
Hawaii next, California-Iowa. He 
wanted his children to share his bless-
ings, to sing and go fishing in Minne-
sota and to have hamburgers and Coke. 

There was Williams, a black soldier 
from Florida "whose imagination was 
always getting jerked out of its innocence 
whenever the army spelled out to its 
soldiers what is expected of them;" 

McCarthy, who married Marilyn before 
he left for Vietnam, only to have her 
divorce him when he got there; and 

Varoujan Demirgian, whose last name was 
Armenian for Smith, who tried to have 
his jaw broken to escape the army, and 
of whom more later. 

The Chillicothe milkman was Elmer 
Pulver, who had abandoned his milk route 
for the Korean War, and who, one 
Saturday morning in 1966, had taken his 
son, Douglas, along to the office, and 
picked who of M would represent 
America in Vietnam, for Pulver was now 
a major with a secretary and a windowless 
office in one of the Pentagon's inner rings. 

Pulver went through M's IBM cards indi-
cating each soldier's preference, but there 
weren't any vacancies in Hawaii, Japan, 
or Canada that week and while he ex-
plained to his blond eight-year-old that 
Daddy's job was to send the men where 
they wanted to go, soldier after soldier 
ended up with an assignment to Vietnam. 

("Daddy, I can do it myself-please," 
Douglas said, but Daddy chuckled and 
said no .. .'') 

And in time M is bundled off to Viet-



**M**
**Author: John Sack**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
13 I The New Journal I October 15, 1967 
nam, oriented, shown films explaining that 
r 
"the Vietnamese people live in an ex-
plosive situation, one in which peaceful-
ness does not meet the challenge of today's 
needs," and sent north of Saigon to camp. 
M's battalion was 
part of an inner circle, its radius a 
Herculean mile-and-a-half, spirals of 
barbed wire transfixed its perimeter, 
trip wires abounded, Charlie, beware 
of mines, and mighty artillery was 
zeroed in, super sabres and skyraiders 
knew the coordinates, in a sturdy sand-
bagged bunker Sullivan was to stand 
glaring at no-man's land through a 
curious slit, all the arsenal of America's 
genius at his fingertips, riftes, machine 
guns, recoilless riftes as long as 
howitzers, death rays, you name it, 
Sullivan would have it, atom bombs ... 
As the time neared for M's first opera-
tion to begin, and with it the end of Sack's 
Esquire assignment, the fear of the enemy 
and the ignorance of Vietnam of these 
over-armed adolescents took on an 
ominous tone. "Angels and miniSters of 
grace defend us," Sack bad written during 
M's basic training the first time actual 
shots were fired in a mock battle: 
Three thousand pieces of solid lead to 
be sent shrieking across America at 
four times the speed of sound, seventeen 
billion ergs of irresponsible energy in 
each satanical one of them, and each 
of them instantaneously activated at 
a ftick of an adolescent's finger. 
Merciful God! What cataclysmic threat 
to America's security could have mis-
led the Pentagon to such an insane 
experiment ... 
M was unconvinced by the Vietnik who 
cornered them in Oakland, as they 
journeyed to the front, and implored them 
to escape the army and "Read the New 
York Times/" Their belief instead, writes 
Sack, lay in "the principle of perpendicu-
lar geography, that article of American 
faith that all this world's sovereign coun-
tries stand on their ends and if one topples 
over the rest shall follow." But this, and 
moral justifications for the U.S. presence 
dissolve in the field, the point where, 
ironically, they no longer matter to 
committed men. 

For when M got to Vietnam, all ques-
tions of whether or not America should 
be ''there" became irrelevant; they were 
there, and they were to be protected from 
the Vietnamese at whatever cost, and sup-
ported at home: "Logic itself ... owed it 
to common courtesy to accommodate it-
self to M's life and limb." 

The absurdity of M in Vietnam comes 
full circle when two chubby Congressmen 
visit "the front," and whatever doubts 
may have existed in their minds about the 
Vietnam War "suffered a sea-change 
when the ethereal concept, the American 
commitment took on ftesh and bones and 
materialized in front of their watery eyes 
as M's noble soldiers." 

The last third of the book describes M's 
first operation. M scrambles out of heli-
copters into an empty field, lugging with it 
a vast assortment of weaponry and equip-
ment. The military euphemism dissolves. 
~en M was confused by firing in the 
diStance, for example, it was explained to 
them that it was "recon by fire" 
meaning that the wags in the cavalry 
had apparently ridden to some 
astonished Vietnamese village on their 
thirty-five thousand-pound horses and 
were firing into it with SO-calibre 
machine guns, the bullets as big as hot 
dogs, great big Oldenburg pop-art 
bullets, this being the cavalry's rip-
roaring way to ascertain if any com-
munists resided there--if so, they'd 
doubtless return fire. 

Mends with the surge of Varoujan 
Demirgian, the rebel of Fort Dix. While 
his friends are wounded, killed, or obtain 
safe positions at the rear, Demirgian 
survives, a fine fighting man, a specialist 4. 
On operations Demirgian guided his 
squad through the jungle, he gazed at 
the high yellow flames, he found the 
American army good. Without any 
qualms, he told himself, I'd like to burn 
the whole country down and start again 
with Americans. 

You may have gathered from all that, 
that John Sack is a Vietnik, and if you 
have you're wrong. At least, he wasn't 
when he wrote down M 's words in 
thirteen neat notebooks, indexed the first 
thirteen in a fourteenth in four different 
ways, and wrote his Esquire piece in the 
garden of a Saigon hotel, pausing now 
and then to pat the frail head of a peacock 
that wandered in and out. It wasn't till 
four months after he got back to the U.S. 
that he suddenly wondered what he would 
have done if he had been in M, and after 
a while he decided that, like Williams, 
be would have quit. And it wasn't until 
after that, when he read a piece in the 
New Yorker by a 22-year-old Harvard 
graduate named Jonathan Schell, about 
a V.C. village whose inhabitants were 
removed en masse for a government 
sponsored "New Life," that he decided the 
war made no sense. 

When Sack was off in the rice paddies, 
he had been "for" the war, or rather, be 
hadn't ever reaJly thought about the reason 
for the war, which makes him like the 
soldiers he chronicled, who, one would 
suppose, were somehow "for" the war, 
their fundamental purpose in Vietnam 
being to protect themselves. 

Sack could empathize with the guys 
because he was one of them, albeit a sharp 
and acid observer. Like theirs, his reaction 
to any unknown moving thing was to wish 
it shot. He understood them; he wrote 
honestly and they liked the book. The 
New American Library threw a party for 
Demirgian upon his return, and 
Demirgian loved the book; the book was 
true, he felt himself a hero. To date, Sack 
hasn't heard a single unhappy comment 
from the men of M concerning his por-
trayal of them, and the only Jetter he has 
received from the Army has been an ap-
proving one, of which more later. 

What then, does this ruthless book add 
up to? In Joseph HeJler's Catch 22, the 
war that drones on in the background "is a 
necessary war, as wars go. But the people 
are all in it for themselves, and so the 
whole thing becomes insane," says 
Sack. 

"I don't seeM that way. Here people 
are just doing the best they can, and they 
are corrupted by their surroundings, the 
role they have to play. My problem is 
insoluble, because everyone is doing 
what they really think is right." As Sack 
was writing, the war seemed necessary 
and so, he said, pacing the floor of his 
Manhattan apartment on whose walls 
hung color blow-ups of a hut on fire, and 
Demirgian peering in fear out of the 
helicopter as it landed for the first 
operation, "and so if logic means that the 
U.S. has to be burning villages, my God" 
-throwing his hands up, clutching his 
head. 

"Being there," he said ''you become 
aware of how insane the war is, but it's 
also very hard to be against it when the 
U.S. presence is so huge"-although the 
NLF, VC, what you wiU, seem to have had 
some success at just that-"it's such a 
monster thing. When you try to think in 
the middle of this, should we be here, 
should we get out, it's like being in a 
science class and wondering, should there 
be a Universe? And since the people there 
are all good people, and you can under-
stand the ones who are screwing up ... " 
and so on. 

"Then, once you get back in the States, 
Vietnam looks so small, why are we 
putting all those tanks and planes and 
guns in there, when the riots started and 
we couldn't fix up our own country, 
because we're throwing everything into 
that dump. It's insane." 

But then, in a way, Sack thrives on that 
insanity, laughter is his thing. "You know 
Mort Sahl's line," he will tell you, "it's 
good to be able to laugh at something, or 
else you might have to do something 
about it." 

Laughter is his natural reaction, even 
when M Company killed its little girl by 
mistake. "Perhaps," he says, pacing and 
flailing the air, "perhaps subconsciously, 
I'm horrified by it, and laughter is the only 
way I can keep sane ... to keep from 
screaming ... but it's an insane maniacal 
laughter, I get the feeling"-thinking 
now of the 45 bar crescendo in Sergeant 
Pepper, Sack, his arms outstretched, 
looking at me, up in the air, down on the 
floor-"You want to run up to these 
people in our government and say, what 
are you doing man, what are you doing?" 

What in fact is Sack doing? How can 
you choose when there are so many "good 
fellows" on our side, when it is so easy 
to empathize with the sinners in their 
midst? Sack couldn't, it's hard, we 
Westerners are all in on this show to-
gether, and so you end up with the luxury 
available to the disengaged and the "edu-
cated:" it's a mess, you can't make a 
choice; as Halberstam would call it, a 
quagmire. Sack can see ending operations 
that haven't worked, like the bombing 
of North Vietnam, but he doesn't like 
the idea of the U.S. leaving, just quitting, 
even after he has virtually demolished the 
rationale for the U.S. presence. 

An honest reporter writes about what he 
knows and understands best-in a sense, 
about what he is-and this is what Sack 
has done. There is an amorality vital to 
M's creation: Sack is an artist, and a deep 
commitment to either side would have 
killed the work. The aesthetic obsession 
with the events, the implicit acceptance of 
such a situation by not taking sides, is not 
peculiar to Sack; and it is an att.itude .th.at, 
if anything, helps the war cont!Due, 1t IS 
one level of intellectual sanction for 
business as usual. 

Sack's book goes to the heart of our 
"presence" in Vietnam. The flesh of the 
commitment is just folks, like you and me, 
less prone to intellectualize over things 
in general, but that makes no difference. 
Vietnam corrupts them in their role as 
freedom fighters, and the people of 
Vietnam bear their fear and fury. We 
ought to leave. 

The crowning triumph of the demon of 
M, is that we won't leave; the Asian 
climate alone doesn't make for make-
believe in Vietnam, which brings us to the 
letter from the army. It just so happened 
that someone over in the U.S. seventh 
division in Germany read John Sack's 
book, and thought it was neat. So the 
special forces wrote, requesting permis-
sion to adapt it for a stage play to be 
performed at troop bases all over; it 
would be funny entertainment, and it 
would "teach about training." To Sack's 
sorrow, his agent said no, John, we can't 
let them do this. The rights must be 
guarded. 

The war is no longer Sack's department, 
though an agency is sponsoring a series 
of lectures for him on just that (a dated 
brochure proclaims that he is "not 
preachy"). 

Sack has pinned down the contradiction 
that plagued him; now his head is some-
where else, he wants to chronicle the 
hippies. The temperament of the artist, 
perhaps, but also part of the grand old 
American ability, come whatever may, to 
have another drink. 


**Dumaran**
**Author: David Milch**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

14 I The New Journal I October 15, 1967 
Dumaran 
DAVID MILCH, a first year law student, 
began his unfinished novel The Ground-
lings two years ago for an honors English 
major in Yale College. "Dumaran" is a 
chapter from that novel. It introduces the 
eldest of the three brothers, Torch, who is 
on his way home for the funeral of his 
youngest brother, Judge. "Dumaran" 
copyright I967 by David Milch. 
By David Milch 
Torch had received the call from Ithaca 
a little before three in the morning, 
Pacific Time. He had managed to reach the 
phone before its ringing awakened his wife 
Sue, and had talked in a low voice, that 
she might remain asleep. He had, on one 
occasion, engaged in a rather loud 
exchange with his brother, but had shut the 
bedroom door as he did so. 

After he had replaced the receiver 
Torch walked slowly into the kitchen. He 
put a kettle of water on the stove, and 
measured a teaspoon and a half of instant 
coffee into each of two cups he had placed 
on a black plastic tray. Then he stood with 
his head lowered, hands straddling the 
sides of the stove, waiting for the water 
to boil. After a few moments steam began 
to rise from the kettle's spigot, and he 
breathed it deep, eyes closed. Some time 
passed before he finally pushed away, 
afterwards filling the cups with the boiling 
water as he stirred just less than a spoonful 
of sugar into one of them. Then, pushing 
the door open with his hip, he carried the 
tray into the bedroom, softly setting it 
down on his wife's night-stand. He stared 
at her for a long moment before quietly 
seating himself on the bed, then touching 
his hand to her cheek, palm up. 

"Suzabelle," in a whispered voice. 
"Su-hu-zabel." She stirred uneasily. He 
leaned over and kissed her, staring at the 
wall behind the bed. She shrugged lazily, 
eyes closed, and smiled, lifting her arms to 
him. He moved just out of their reach. She 
opened her eyes. 

He nodded toward the night-stand. 
"Soup's on." 

She sat up quickJy and looked around 
the room, pushing a strand of hair from 
her face. "What time is it?" 

"A little past three. Sugar's the one 
nearest you." 

She looked toward the table. "Torchy?" 

"C'mon." He took the cup from the tray 
and handed it to her. 

"No, Torchy?" 

In the darkness he stared at the wall 
behind her. "Drinkee all down. Grow big 
and strong." 

She did move for a moment, then, still 
looking at him, picked up the cup and 
took a tentative sip. "Oooh." 

"Good huh? See first you take your 
water ... " 

She stared at him. 

He took the cup from her and reptaced 
it on the table. "Hey, Susie? Hold my 
hand. C'mon, squeeze now. Squeeze." 

Tears began to fill in her eyes as she 
pressed his hand. "Judgy ... C'mon, hard 
now. Judgy's dead. Mark just called to 
tell me. C'mon duke. He said there'd been 
this car wreck- ... That's all. He said 
he was dead. C'mon duke, squeeze." 

"Judgy?" 

"Okay duke. It's all right." 

"Oh. Oh. Judgy?" 

"Okay now. Shhh. Okay." He took her 
in his arms, pressing her toward him, and 
began to rock gently. "Shhh. It's okay." 

"Oh my. Ob my." 

"Say his name Susie. C'mon, soft now. 
Just his name now." 

She said the name quietly, in a very 
high voice, separating its syllables. 

"No questions duke. Over and over now. 
Just ... " 

"No. Dear Lord. Please not Judgy." She 
pushed away from him and buried her 
head in the pillow, sobbing that he 
couldn't be, dear lord, dear lord. 

"No, just the name honey. It's over. 
C'mon now." He turned his hand to the 
left, to the windowless wall, softly 
drumming his fingers on the iron frame 
of the bed. "Hey Susie, don't. C'mon 
honey.'; She continued to cry, and said 
that it was not fair, that she had rather it 
would have been her, that nothing could 
be less fair, of all people. He watched her 
for a moment more, then rose and walked 
away, into the bathroom. 

He ran the shower, pushing the door 
shut with his foot, then turned and stared 
at his expressionless face in the mi.rror 
above the sink. Slowly, he removed his 
pajamas and got into the shower, standing 
with his mouth open as the hot water hit 
him. (The water pushed his long red hair 
over his face, into his eyes.) He did not 
lather, just stood so for five minutes, his 
arms raised slightly above his head, 
pressing against the wall on one side and 
the steel rod of the shower curtain on the 
other. When this time had passed he 
leaned forward, his weight on his right 
leg, and after a brief hesitation, shut the 
shower off. He wound a bath towel around 
his mid.section without drying himself 
and opened the door, walking to her side 
of the bed. He stood before her, dripping 
wet, his hair completely covering his eyes. 

She had been lying in bed, silent for 
some time now, but tears still showed on 
her cheeks. She looked up at him, and 
smiled, taking a deep, shuddering breath. 

He asked, very quietly, head tilted far 
back, whether she was new in town. She 
tried to speak once, could not, then finally 
said it so happened she was, why didn't 
he buy her a drink, in a very weak voice. 

He lay down beside her, his head on her 
breast, with the wall opposite the window 
before him. After a moment's silence he 
said, "Okay?" 

Her hair made a rubbing noise on the 
pillow as she nodded. 

"Was that an up and downer or a side to 
side?" 

She took his ears and moved his head up 
and down, pushing her chin out as the 
corners of her lips began to tremble. 

"Sure?" 

She nodded again, turning her head on 
the pillow as the tears ran slowly down 
her cheeks. 

He rose, then lowered himself to one 
knee beside the bed. 

· 
She looked up quickJy. 

"Don't say anything for a minute 
Susie. No.'' He reached beneath the bed 
and pulled out a small suitcase, then went 
to the dresser and removed a notebook, 
three pairs of khaki pants and five white 
shirts. He walked to the closet and took 
out his two suits, a black and a patterned 
grey, and a herringbone jacket. He laid 
the suits beside the bag and began to dress. 

As be had spoken she had slowly 
reclined again, and turned her head to the 
window. "Torchy .. .'' 

He walked into the bathroom, brushed 
his teeth, then placed the brush and 
toothpaste in his shaving kit and brought 
it with him into the bedroom. He packed 
it in the side pocket of the suitcase, along 
with the notebook. 

''Torchy? Look at me?" 

He finished dressing and zipped up the 
suitcase before walking to her side of the 
bed. He raised his hand to her chin, then 
moved it along her neck and shoulder. "In 
a few days duke. It's all right." 

"No, Torchy?" Her voice bad grown 
weaker. "I'm all right." 

"As soon as ... " 

"I won't get upset. I won't ... I'll help 
your mom with the beds and cooking, 
that's all. I'll be perfectly ... I won't be 
upset. I'll just help around the house." 

"Honey ... " 

"Torchy, I can't stay here." 

He kissed her shoulder next to where his 
hand had stopped. "Susie, it'll just be a 
few days. You can fly in for the funeral." 

He went to the front of the bed and picked 

--- Page 15 ---

l 
15 I The New Journal! October 15, 1967 
up his bag and suits. "Blas'll give me a 
ride to the airport. I'll call you when I get 
in okay?" 

"Torchy, let me. Please?" 

He put on his trench-coat and walked to 
the front door. "In a little while. It's all 
right." 

"No Torchy, I'm going with you. I'm 
fine. I'm going with you." She got out of 
bed, extending the last word into a long 
sob, and pursued him to the front door. 

"Oh your hair's not even combed. 
Torchy ... " 

He turned five steps out the door. 
"Hey." 

She stopped. 

"Now don't come Susie." 

. 
"Oh please. I can't, oh let me ... " 

"Now shut it." He stared at her for a 
moment, then turned and walked away, 
pausing only briefly as he heard the door 
close quietly behind him. 

Torch arrived at the Los Angeles 
International Airport at a quarter before 
six, having gotten a ride with Mr. Bias, 
supervisor of the program in Spanish at 
the Peace Corps Training Center. As 
Torch got out of the car Mr. Bias offered 
to help him with his luggage, but he 
declined, saying that Mr: Bias could do 
him a favor though if he would be kind 
enough to look in on his wife now and 
again over the next few days. Mr. Bias 
said of course he would, and reaffirmed the 
sympathy he had expressed throughout 
the trip, and Torch walked away. 

He checked in at the American Airlines 
Military Personnel counter, presented his 
Peace Corps identification card, and asked 
for a roundtrip ticket to Buffalo at military 
rates. The ticket agent told him that she 
was sorry, those rates were applicable to 
Peace Corps volunteers only on flights to 
or between points of service, or in cases 
of family emergency. He half-smiled and 
replied that he made it, he made it on 
the last count, and gave her the phone 
number of the police station in Ithaca. 

She began to make out the tickets as she 
placed a collect call to Ithaca, where she 
received confirmation of a family 
emergency from Desk Lieutenant Carlson. 
After checking the flight schedule she 
hurriedly placed another call, her back 
to him, then turned as she hung up and told 
Torch he could depart immediately on the 
6 A.M. flight to Chicago, and could make 
connections for Buffalo there. Torch 
paid for the tickets and thanked her, 
moving toward the gate she had indicated. 

She called after him that she was sorry, 
and that she had gotten them to hold the 
plane. He stopped, smiled, and thanked 
her again, then turned and walked away. 

A stewardess was waiting for him at the 
gate, asking as he approached if he were 
Mr. Little. After his reply she said that 
she was very sorry to hear of the death in 
his family, and that American would try 
to make his flight a comfortable one. She 
escorted him on to the plane, excused 
herself for a moment, then returned and 
asked him to follow her please. She took 
him to an aisle seat just being vacated by 
another passenger, a blond boy, about 
five, and said that Torch's seat would be 
number Three C, and that his fellow 
traveler would be Father Tyres. The priest 
rose reluctantly, squinting at Torch, and 
offered his band. Torch shook hands with 
him, smiling, and thanked the stewardess 
over his shoulder for her consideration. 

The first three and a half hours of the 
flight passed without incident. The priest 
had excused himself shortly after take-off, 
and remained in the lounge during the 
whole period, while Torch occupied 
himself with writing in the notebook be 
bad taken from his suitcase. On a number 
of occasions he glanced over at the 
passenger he had displaced. The boy was 
now sitting alone, in the window seat 
across the aisle from Torch: He bad not 
taken his eyes from the window since 
take-off, and had refused the stewardess' 
repeated offers of breakfast with silent 
though unemphatic shakes of his head. 

When the plane was within two hundred 
miles of Chicago the pilot announced that 
they were now flying a holding pattern, 
they had been advised by O'Hare that a 
storm system had developed which pres-
ently extended from Boston across to 
Chicago and into the Dakotas, and that 
they would maintain this pattern until re-
ceiving further instructions from O'Hare. 

After the captain's announcement 
Torch placed the notebook under the seat, 
and after looking quickly toward the boy, 
who had not visibly responded to the 
announcement, stared absently at the 
"no-smoking, fasten seat-belt" sign which 
was flashing erratically in the front of the 
cabin. The priest, who had just left the 
lounge, walked unsteadily back to his seat. 
Torch rose silently to let him in. The 
process took a few moments, as he stared 
at Torch for some time before recognizing 
the vacant seat next to him as his. When 
he had seated himself the priest, a bald 
man, strikingly thin, made a perfunctory 
effort at reading the American Airlines 
travel book, but discarded it. After a brief 
pause, he nudged Torch confidentially 
and asked in a thick voice if he had a 
cigarette. 

Torch looked over at the boy, then, 
staring straight ahead, spoke loudly to 
the priest out of the side of his mouth. 
"Think we can pull it off?" 

The priest looked around the cabin. 
"Pull it off?" 

"The no-smoking sign." 

"Oh, oh, sure," The priest winked 
elaborately, and began to whistle. "In 
there," he muttered between his teeth, 
nodding at the sickness bag. "Put 'em in 
there." 

Torch winked back, picked up the bag, 
and slipped a Phillip Morris into it. Then 
he too started to whistle, dropping the 
bag at the priest's feet. Torch looked over 
at the boy, who had turned when he heard 
the priest's whistling, and put a finger to 
his lips, pointing to the no-smoking sign 
with his other hand. The boy smiled. 

The priest accepted Torch's offered 
light, guiding the match to the end of the 
cigarette with a shaking hand. "Why is it 
they put the no-smoking sign on the only 
times you want to smoke?" 

Torch had been flashing an "OK" signal 
to the boy across the aisle. "Excuse ... 
Oh, I think the thing's busted anyway." 

The light was no longer flashing, but 
shone a dull orange, emitting a loud, 
buzzing noise. 

"Well there is an irony. There is an 
ironic note. You mean we went through 
all that for nothing?" 

"I guess." 

"Of course we may be grateful it bas a 
light to begin with. We may be ... " The 
priest took Torch's elbow, moving his head 
closer to him. "My son, I have ridden on 
planes, I have travelled on planes ... You 
think this is a bad plane? You should take 
the Islands Service planes sometime. 
Before making your final judgement, you 
should ... Like this." He held onto the 
imaginary handle-bars, pedalling 
furiously. "Two little pinos where the 
engines should be." Torch smiled absently, 
and looked back toward the boy, but the 
priest shook his arm and said "Hey, like 
this," and began to pedal again. 

Torch turned back to him, a little un-
easily. "Is that right?" 

"Yes sir. Yes sir." The priest squinted at 
Torch, smiling. Torch did not reply, and 
after a moment the priest's smile faded. 
He began to tap his knee with the palm of 
his right hand. "Yes sir, I have ridden the 
Islands Service planes many times, many 
times. To and from Dumaran. In and 
around the general vicinity of Dumaran. 
Dumaran ... Do you know where 
· Dumaran is?" 

Torch had been looking across the aisle, 
watching as the boy resumed his former 
posture, his head to the window. "Excuse 
me?" 

"I said do you know where Dumaran 
is?" 

"Uh, the Philippines." 

The priest stared at Torch. "Hey, how'd 
you know where Dumaran is ... ?" 

"I'm going to the Philippines in a little 
while for the Peace Corps. My wife and 
1." 

"Dumaran? Are you going to 
Dumaran?" 

"No, I think we're going to be on the 
main island." Torch still seemed pre-
occupied with the boy, and did not look at 
the priest as he spoke. 

The priest shook his elbow. "Say, don't 
go to Dumaran. You can listen to me. The 
disease on ... It's filthy and it's hot and 
... it's just a bad place. Dumaran, if you 
ever want to believe in an angry God, go 
to Dumaran. I spent ... Even if they try 
to force you. Even if they insist, and try 
to justify your going there, tell them you 
.refuse, under any circumstances." 

Torch finally turned to him and 
attempted another smile. "Okay. Dumaran 
is out." 

"Right. Don't go to Dumaran." 

"Not even for a visit. Okay." 

"Ob, you can't visit. They won't . 
Right. Not for a day, not for an hour, not 
for a minute. Dumaran is ... God's 
wrath." 

The pilot announced that they expected 
word from O'Hare shortly. Torch looked 
over at the boy, then turned in his seat 
and signalled for the stewardess, but 
could not get her attention. The priest 
shook his elbow, and Torch wheeled 
quickly, frowning. "Look ... " 

"You won't go to Dumaran?" 

His features relaxed. "No. I, ub, 
promise." He looked for the stewardess 
again, and half-rose as he saw her enter 
the pilot's cabin. But the priest's insistent 
hold on his elbow restrained him, and he 
seated himself, gently loosening the older 
man's grip. 

The priest reclined in his seat. "Of 
course I need oo longer concern myself 
with affairs on Dumaran. I need not ... I 
am being, as we say in the priest game, 
recalled. I am being, I am considered ... 
unfit, for further proselytizing activities, 
by virtue, by the cardinal ... and papal 
virtue, of my constant inebriation ... and 
other failings." 

Torch shifted in his seat. 

"Not a bit. Not a bit of it. I had my 
doubts, twenty-two, no, now it's twenty-
four years ago, about the cloth. Concern-
ing my vestments. And ... my doubts are 
now confirmed. I am ... unfit, to 
proselytize any further, I am ... unfit. I 
am going back· to Chicago to loose my 
robes. To have my robes loosed for me." 

He imitated a ripping movement on his 
sleeve. "Off with my stripes. Off ... And 
then I am going to walk, feel my way, to 
the waterfront, and dive ... for pearls. In 
Lake Michigan." 

The pilot asked for the passengers' 
attention. He said now they bad just 
received word from O'Hare that minimum 
ceiling was not now and could not be 
expected to become available for some 
time. Existing weather patterns made 
flight to any southem or due eastern city 



**Title:  Untitled**
**Author:  N/A**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
161 The New Journal! October IS, 1967 
unadvisable at this time, and they had 
received instructio.ns to proceed to 
Toronto. Passenger information in 


Chicago had been informed, as would be 
all major cities which might have been 
ultimate destinations. As soon as O'Hare 
cleared they would be returning to 
Chicago, but American would make every 
effort to assist those passengers who 
wished to make other travel arrangements 
in Toronto. If things went well they 
expected to arrive by 2 P.M., eastern time. 
The boy across from Torch pressed his 
forehead against the window, and cupped 
his hands on either side of his cheeks. 
"There is a note," the priest said. 
"There is a helluva note, eh . . . My son, 
I'm afraid I've forgotten your name." 
"Torch." He rose, looking around the 
cabin. 

"Sit still. Sit still. Nobody has to stand 
... Torch, eh? The lightbearer. Oh, for 
your hair. Your hair's red eh? I can still 
see colors. I can still ... Say, sit down. 
You don't have to stand for me." 
"No, I'm looking ... " Torch hesitated, 
then exhaled heavily and seated himself. 

"Well, at least we'll have a little 
excitement, eh Torch? A little ... A 
reprieve. A stay of execution." 
Torch nodded absently. 

"Or maybe ... immediate. We may have 
... Say, my name, I don't believe I've 
introduced myself, my name ... " 

"Father Tyres." 

"No. No, my name is Pete. Peter. You 
may call me Pete. That's my name again. 
Pete or Peter, whichever ... The rock, 
upon which ... My son, the Church is in 
steady hands. Steady and capable ... All 
you, uh, of what I may call the Catholic 
persuasion Torch? Are you persuaded in 
that particular direction?" 

"Say, Father, if you don't mind ... " 

"Well, be comforted. If you should ever 
wish ... It is in steady and capable hands." 
He looked at his hands, raising them 
chest-high. "Although at the given moment 
my hands ... tremble a trifle, as a general 
rule the Church ... You may kiss my 
ring." 
Torch turned and looked at him. 

"For God's sake." 

"Not exactly, eh Torch? Not ... That's 
strange. I had it here a moment ago." 
The priest inserted his right hand in the 
sickness bag. "Oh dear. My white plume. 
And with the Council reconvening in a 
few short days. Well, you may kiss my 
hand now, ringare, as the saying goes. The 
ring is a mere ... symbol. The spirit's 
essence resides within." 

"Look Father, I ... " 

"No, no, I insist. It's the spirit of the 
thing. Unto all men let the Living Word 
come. I insist." 
Torch took the priest's hand and passed 
his mouth an inch above it. "E Pluribus 
Unum." 

"Did you ... I didn't feel ... Oh, right. 
Right Torch. E pluribus ... Non 
cognoscenti alabaster, eh Torch? 
Dominoes non est backgammon. Uh, 
glaucoma, glaucoma, glaucoma." The 
priest swallowed with difficulty, attempting 
to clear his ears as the plane passed 
through a succession of air pockets. 

"Father, I'm afraid you'll have to 
excuse me." Torch looked over at the boy, 
whose shoulders could be seen heaving 
rhythmically. "I want to try to find ... " 
The priest had not followed Torch's 
glance. He took his arm again as Torch 
tried to rise. "Say, don't go. Don•t ... 
You know, I was supposed to console you. 
The stewardess ... " 

"Have you seen the stewardess?" 

"It is hardly likely that I ... would see 
... It is ... Say, the stewardess made a 
special point of sitting you next to me. 
For purposes of consolation. That I might 
reveal ... God's word. God's ... She said 
your younger brother had died?" 
Torch again seated himself, now 
removing the priest's arm more forcefully. 

"Don't talk about that Father. That's none 
of your business." 

"On the contrary. That is the essence 
. . . Would you care to hear some 
appropriate scriptural passages? I stole a 
Gideon from my hotel in Los Angeles." 
Torch stared at the priest, his face 
growing red. "You'd better shut up 
Father. I mean it." 
The priest looked down, and began to 
strike his knee again. ''The essence ... of 
my business. The ... I'm sorry. I'm .. . 
But you see, if he happened to die of a 
lingering illness ... No, she said it was 
an accident. But if it had happened to be 
a ... I could quote a number of appro-
priate ... The people of Dumaran bad a 
peculiar susceptibility to certain drawn-
out, terminal diseases. Terminal is ... " 
The plane banked sharply, and the boy 
let out a long shrill scream. Torch rose. 

" ... a medical term. I read many books, 
so that I could send for the proper ... " 

"And you don't even hear a kid crying. 
A hero like yourself." Torch stared at the 
priest for a moment, then turned away, 
moving across the aisle to seat himself 
next to the boy. He placed his hand on the 
boy's arm. "Hey ace, turn around." The 
boy moved his arm away from Torch's 
hand. Torch took a slow breath. "Hey, 
don't cry ace, will you please? There's 
nothin' to cry about." 

There was a short silence. Finally the 
boy turned to Torch, the lower part of his 
face tucked beneath his shoulder. Tears 
showed on his cheeks, but he'd stopped 
crying. "Where's Toronto?" 

"Never mind about Toronto. Toronto's 
not far." 

"No, but how far?" 

"A little ways. A couple of hours." 
Torch looked at the boy. "Hey, what 
about your hands?" 
The boy looked down at his hands. 

"Why don't you go wash up? Why don't 
you go wash your hands up?" 
The boy turned back to the window. 

"Can you do'em by yourself?" 
He nodded. 

"Hey, well I'm gonna go back to the 
lounge. Right next to the boys· room. You 
go wash up, and then if you want you 
come back there and sit with me. Okay?" 
Torch got up. "I'm gonna go back there. 
Okay ace? I'm gonna go back there now." 
He walked into the lounge and sat 
down. When the stewardess left the pilot's 
cabin he asked for a Budweiser, and she 
got the beer from the inset refrigerator 
behind the bar, remarking to Torch a$ 
she did so that she'd never seen so much 
drinking in her life on a morning fiight, 
people usually slept on this one. 
The boy did not move from his seat for a 
short while. But finally, after quickly 
looking around the cabin, then momen-
tarily lowering his head again, he rose and 
walked to the washroom, which was 
situated between the first-class section and 
the lounge. The priest, who had been 
staring dully at the no-smoking sign, 
periodically tapping his knee with his 
right hand, watched him go in silence. 
After some time the boy came out of the 
washroom and wordlessly seated himself 
in the chair beside Torch's. 

"You want some beer ace?'' Torch 
leafed through a magazine be had picked 
up as the boy entered. 
The boy looked at Torch, then picked 
up the beer and took a small sip, 
grimacing. 

"I get your brand?" 
The boy shook his bead yes. 

"Yes or no." 

"Yes." 

"What kind is it?" 
The boy thought a moment. "Hamm's." 

"Right." Torch put the magazine away. 
The boy looked out the window. 

"Hamm's is the one my ... daddy drinks." 

"Oh yeah?" 

"Uh hub." There was a short silence . 

"My daddy was supposed to meet me in 
Chicago." 

"And bow about your mom?" 
The boy shook his head no. 
Torch shifted in his seat. "Well look, 
uh ... Hey, you know where ... Toronto's 
in Canada. D'you know where Canada 
is?" 

"Sure." 

"Ub-hub." Torch ran his hand through 
his hair. "Well that's where Toronto is." 

"Far?" 

"Not far. A couple of hours." Torch 
looked at the boy. "How's the beer?" 

"Okay." 

"Why don't you let me get you a coke 
or something." 

"No, this is okay." 

"Okay. Hey, what were you doing in 
California?" 
The boy shrugged. 

"You were on a vacation eb?" 
He nodded. "With my aunts." 

"How long were you out there?" 

"A long time." 

"What, like about a month?" 

"Yep." 
Torch took a long sip of his beer. "Hey, 
well d 'you see anything? See Disneyland?" 

"Uh-huh." The boy yawned. 
Torch looked at him carefuJiy. "How 
was that?" 


"D'you go on the Matterhorn? Here, 
c'mere." Torch drew the boy toward his 
shoulder. "D'you go on the Matterhorn?" 
The boy nodded his head, yawning. 

"I got sick on the Matterhorn," Torch 
said. "I'm afraid of heights. How about 
yourself? D'you get sick?" 

"Nope." The boy look'ed up. "I went 
twice. I went twice on the Matterhorn,'· 
he yawned, "and three times on the flying 
saucer~.'' 

"What else?" 

"I don't know." He nestled his head on 
Torch's shoulder, looking up at the 
ceiling. "Once on the Magic Carpet.'' 

"Adventureland?" 
The boy nodded sleepily. 

''Tomorrowland?" 

"Nope. It was too late.'' 

"How'd you go on the flying saucers?" 

"Oh yeah. We went there. We couldn't 
go to Frontierland though. It was too 
late.'' 

"You liked it huh?" 
The boy shook his head yes. 

"Yes?" 

"Uh-buh." He yawned again. 

"Hey ace, why don't you get some 
sack?" 
The boy raised his head quickly. 

"No, I'm gonna be right here. C'mon, 
put it down. I'm gonna stay right here.'' 
The boy wriggled in the seat, getting 
comfortable, and Torch began to hum. 

"Yum da da de dum, my pretty one, pretty 
one, yum de da day de, my baby, my 
ownnn .. .'' He let his voice go off-key on 
the last note, and extended it into a soft 
howl. The boy looked up, smiling, and 
Torch pushed his hair into his eyes. 

"Smart kid. C'mon, put it down.'' Torch 
slid down in the seat, keeping his shoulder 
raised for the boy's head. He stared at the 
wall above the window before him. 
The boy rested his head again. "Will 
my daddy be in Toronto?" 

"You'll see him in a couple of hours. 
•
C'mon, keep quiet, I'm trying to get som1 sc
sleep here." 

a
"Okay. G'night." 

b
"G'night ace." 

P
Torch remained in the lounge for 
n
something more than half an hour befonh
he quietly rose and walked toward the 
s
stewardess' quarters in the rear of the 
plane. He passed the priest without 
speaking. 

r 
The stewardess was disposing of the 
remnants of the passengers' breakfasts in a 
large foil container. She smiled wearily 
c
as he feigned a knock on the folded 
1
curtain. 

"Say, I wonder if you can tell me what I
arrangements are being made for when we 5
get to Toronto?" 

'
"Well, it depends on whether you want 
to remain with the plane sir. If you don't, l
there'll be customs to go through, so we 
would advise .. .'' 

''No, I can rent a car or something, 
actually Toronto's better for me, but this .
kid, the one who's sitting next to me? He's 
supposed to meet his dad in Chicago. 
What arrangements are being made?" 

"Well, he'll be flown back to Chicago as 1
soon as possible." 

"Yeah, but what about in Toronto. 
Will there be someone to stay with him?" 

"Well ... " 

"What are you gonna be doing?" 

"We have to stay on the plane.'' 

"Could he stay with you? Someone 
ought to be with him." 

"You can't stay?" 

"I've ... No, I'd like to, but I've got to 
get home.'' 
She hesitated a moment, then smiled. 

"Yes. All right.'' 

"Thanks." Torch smiled too, and 
started to leave, then turned back. "Hey 
was that your idea to sit me next to that 
priest?" 
The stewardess blushed. "No, that's 
. . . If we know about the death we're 
supposed to do that. If there's a clergyman 
on board. That's American policy." 
Torch half-smiled. "Okay. Hey, thanks 
about the other thing." 

"We're always glad ... That's all right." 
Torch walked back through the cabin 
and into the lounge, where the boy had 
continued to sleep. He stared for a moment 
at the beer on the table before him, then 
picked it up and sipped it indifferently, 
afterwards seating himself beside the boy, 
and draping his arm around him, and 
closing his eyes. 
A few moments later he looked into the 
passenger's cabin, and saw the priest 
standing in the aisle, talking to the 
stewardess, his hands on the seats to 
either side of him. When he had finished 
speaking with her he began to walk toward 
the lounge. Torch was staring at the wall 
when he arrived. 
The priest seated himself across from 
him, and peered over at the boy. ''That 
was, uh, very kind. That ... I didn't 
realize ... "The priest lowered his voice 
almost to a whisper, and spoke in slow, 
halting phrases. "I didn't realize he was 
upset. I didn't notice him.'' 
Torch stared out the window. "You let 
the kid sleep now Father. You'd better not 
wake him up.'' 

"I ... No, I shan't. I'll keep my voice 
... " Father Tyres looked up at Torch. 
I'm ... very sorry. I'm ... Please accept 
... I apologize. Since my return it seems 
my life consists of offences and apologies. 
my apologies.'' 

"Well, I can see, you know, what with 
your being in the middle of your act, you 
know, how you wouldn't hear him." 
The priest lowered his head. "I've 
become ... inured, to that particular 


--- Page 17 ---

**Page number(s): 17**

171 The New Journal I October 15, 1967 
rm sound. Although my hearing, although 
as my other faculties ... deteriorate, my 
hearing becomes more acute, that is a 
particular sound which I have taught 
myself to ignore." The priest began to tap 
,re his knee with his hand. "Please I' in very 
sorry." 
Torch raised his eyes to the priest's. 
When he spoke his voice was soft. "All 
right. It's okay." 

"Well, I . .. " 

La 
"It's all right. Let the kid sleep now, 
okay Father? It's all right." 

"I'm ... Thank you. Thank you Torch." 
The priest averted his eyes, tapping his 
t knee. After a moment he looked up, 
ve smiling nervously. "Uh, you said you 
were going to the Philippines, didn't you 
t Torch? Perhaps ... I thought you might 
have some questions about the Philippines. 
' Perhaps I might be able to tell you some-
thing about them?" 

"Well . .. " 

, 
"I know something about the main 
:'s islands too. I might be able ... It's only 
the last years I've spent on, uh, Dumaran. 
Wouldn't you ... I know quite a lot about 
lS the Philippines. I've spent ... It's been 
twenty-four years, that I've spent there. 
I'd like very much, if you have any 
• questions ... " 
Torch smiled at the priest. "I would, 
Father. I'd like that. The training courses 
are pretty general. But keep your voice 
down, all right?" Torch absently caressed 
the boy's hair. 
The stewardess entered the cabin with 
0 a gin and tonic, and asked if there would 
be any more orders, they'd be landing in · 
ten minutes. 
Father Tyres took the drink. "No this 
will be fine. Thank you v~ry much. You've 
been very kind ... and courteous .. . 
throughout the flight. Thank you ... so 
very much." The priest wiped his eyes as 
the stewardess left the lounge, and raised 
his drink chest-high, staring at its contents. 

"It's really quite ... I'm surprised, really, 
at the ... gestures, which gratify me. As 
I grow older I am afraid I am becoming 
... "He looked up suddenly. "You, uh 
... Oh, the Philippines. You're going ... 
Are you, uh, going to be right in Manila 
Torch?" 

"No, in one of the smaller towns. 
Teaching high school." The boy changed 
positions in the seat, and Torch raised a 
cautioning finger to his lips. 

. 
The priest nodded. "Of course. I 
shan't ... One musn't disturb the sleep 
of children. I shan't ... " His gaze 
wandered to the window. "Manila is a very 
lovely city Torch. When I first went to 
the Philippines, oh, this was quite some 
time ago, just after the war. I remember 
it quite distinctly, for the period of time 
... Manila is a very clean city. Unlike ... " 
The priest paused. He raised the drink 
once more, hesitated, and again lowered 
it. "You're, uh, you're going to teach? 
That's fine Torch. Fine. They say, I've 
read that the Philippines have the highest 
literacy rate in all of Southeast Asia. Did 
you know that? Somewhere around 
seventy percent. But they still need ... Of 
course, the literates live for the most part 
on the main island. Where I was, for 
the last eight years; on Dumaran, oh, I 
should say that the figure would be 
around three or four percent. I should say 
that would be a correct figure." 
Torch lowered his eyes. "Father, I, my


**Title: Edelstein the Film-maker**
**Author: Daniel Yergin**
**Page number(s): 18**

18 1 The New Journal ! October 15, 1967 
"What did you do this weekend, 
Edelstein?" 
"I went to New York." 
"What did you do in New York, 
"Went to see films." 
"How many films did you see, 
"Five . .. " 
"Jesus Christ, five films in one week-
end!" 
" ... on Saturday and four on Sunday." 

Teacher after teacher these past four years 
has concluded the calling of the roll in the 
first class of the year by asking, "And does 
anybody know Mr. Edelstein?" 

It seems that Mr. Edelstein is never 
there. 

As regular as the seasons themselves, 
Robert Edelstein has come up to Yale each 
year to register but then, except for a few 
scattered classes here and there caught 
between trains, has disappeared for two 
weeks. 

The reason for this disappearance is 
that the first two weeks of the academic 
term at Yale conflict with the New York 
Film Festival, and the Festival is some-
thing that Edelstein would not want to 
miss. 

You ask Edelstein if it's absolutely 
necessary that he take in the Festival; and 
he shrugs his shoulders, and his face 
somehow seems to shrug itself and he emits 
an indefinite sound and then he smiles; 
and after that you know it's absolutely 
necessary. 

Although the Registrar may regard him 
as nothing more than Robert K. Edelstein, 
Yale College, 1968, with "Chrm. of Yale 
Film Society" on his activity sheet; he is 
in fact Edelstein the Film-maker, who has 
devoted much of his Yale career to making 
Sally's Hounds, soon to be shown by.that 
same film society. 

Edelstein has about him the look of 
those young men who grew up a genera-
tion-and-a-half ago in New York City, 
loving the movies, and who quit high 
school to go to work as runners in some 
studio's New York office and then set out 
to Hollywood for careers as brilliant 
directors. 

But that's not the way things are today. 
("Go to college and get that piece of 
paper, boy.") You can still pull it off, but 
only if you have a relative already in the 
business; and Edelstein's connections are 
only tangential-his parents are Jules and 
Tita The Vaudeville Magicians. (He did 
the magic, she had the legs). So Edelstein 
the Film-maker came to Yale. 

He wasn't however always Edelstein the 
Film-maker. First, he was Edelstein the 
Big Reader. "I did tons of reading when 
I was three," he says, "but I stopped read-
ing at five. Words were too hard." 

Then he became Edelstein the writer, a 
condition that persisted for many years, 
including most of high school, although 
he can't quite remember what he wrote. 

"I think I was unconscious for most of 
high school,'' he explains. "It's a complete 
blank. I don't know what I did." 

One thing he did was to go to the 
movies almost every day, but that was 
just as a typical movie fan. Towards the 
end of high school, though, he went to 
see Alfred Hitchcock's The Birds, and 
Edelstein the Film-maker was born. 

He's seen the movie seven times since, 
but he's never forgotten how the film so 
stunned him the first time. "I was amazed,'' 
he says. "It wasn't just a horror film. 
Hitchcock was saying something pro-
found, though he refuses to give the 
impression of being a serious artist when 
he speaks." 

You try to tell Edelstein that you saw 
this same Hitchcock's North by Northwest 
a few nights ago, that the story was 
ridiculous, that the acting was minimal, 
that the sets looked like sets, and that all 
you could think of in the climactic scene 
where Cary Grant grips Eva Marie Saint's 
hand as she slides down the face of 
Mt. Rushmore was the toy George 
Washington savings bank you got for 
opening your first bank account. 

Edelstein shrugs his shoulders at this, 
and his face seems to shrug itself somehow, 
and he emits the indefinite sound, smiles 
and then finally disagrees. He explains 
that Hitchcock is

**Objectivity and the Documentary Film**
**Author: Leo Braudy**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
19 I The New Joumall October 15, 1967 
nt 
er 
(continued from page 2) 
no implies bias. This concept of cinema 
d verite appeals to American documentary 
makers, I think, because of the self-
righteous reformist tradition in which 
ve many of them work: to show literal reality 
le is to tell it bow it is. Rough cutting, 
r. jiggling camera, poorly recorded con-
versations, bad lighting all attest to the 
truth of what is before you, a truth without 
1 the false varnish and falser order of any 
cinematic 'style.' 

In Night and Fog, Alain Resnais uses 
the pitiless gaze of the documentary 
camera as part of a complex treatment of 
.e· the Nazi death camps. Perhaps the tech-
S nique of Don't Look Back is supposed to 
mirror Dylan's own uncompromising 
1 stance. But for Pennebaker and others 
th like him, 'objectivity' is not a method; it 
b. is an ethical and aesthetic standard. 

What relation does 'objectivity' have to 
reality? Titicut Follies, a film about the 
0 Hospital for the Criminally Insane at 
Bridgewater, Mass., promised a little 
th action in the Festival. The Supreme Court 
of Massachusetts had been asked by that 
: state to issue an injunction to prevent its 
st showing. But the request was denied. 
Perhaps the keen-eyed judges bad noticed 
that the film's criticism was so diffuse 
ly and unspecific that it posed no threat. 
a, What was wrong at Bridgewater? The film 
was so studiously 'objective' that you never 
knew. Are the joke-playing guards to be 
considered as degenerate, sadistic, under-
paid or plain bored? Was the old man 
actually killed by the force-feeding? What 
is the point-of-view of the movie: fire the 
staff? build new facilities? raise every-
one's salaries? commit the psychiatrists? 
The viewer in the interest of 'objectivity' 
is left to his own devices; and as a result, 
the film is forgettable. It is poor aesthetics 
and worse journalism. Its inlages have no 
power beyond the merely horrific. 

The two worlds at the Festival came 
together for the final film, shown to the 
paying audience. This was the powerful 
and fascinating Far From Vietnam, a 
personal statement on the war by Alain 
Resnais, William Klein, Joris Ivens, 
Agnes Varda, Claude Lelouch, and Jean-
Luc Godard. Each director made his own 
sequence; but the film, put together by 
Chris Marker, shows amazing coherence 
and thematic control. 

An incident in Resnais' sequence 
recapitulated, it seemed to me, the entire 
debate over 'objectivity.' The main char-
acter is an author struggling to decide if 
he should write a scenario for Herman 
Kahn's book On Escalation: Metaphors 
and Scenarios. 

At one point he thinks of a World War 
II photograph that shows the death of a 
Japanese soldier by ftamethrower. The 
picture has been used so often by so many 
difterent people for so many different 
polemical and propaganda purposes that 
filmcutters affectionately refer to the 
photograph as Gustave. The photograph-
the cinematic 'fact'-is meaningless with-
out a context, and the contexts can be of 
any k.ind. The documentary market is 
glutted with filthy insane asylums, rat-
infested apartment houses and dilapidated 
schools. But facts alone cannot convince. 
The imaginative form, however, built on 
facts can convince. The fully articulated 
point-that is, one within a context-
paradoxically allows the facts far greater 
force than the frozen arrays of 'objec-
tivity.' 

Far From Vietnam is a remarkable film 
and deserves wide circulation, not the 
least because it brings together documen-
tary techniques with an insistence on the 
responsibility to clearly proclaim one's 
point-of-view. 'Dishonest' is more appro-
priately applied to those films that, 
through studied irrelevance and sloppy 
technique, pretend no point-of-view. 
-LeoBraudy 
Instructor in English


**Dumaran (continued)**
**Author: Unattributed**

(Dumaran continued) 
standing over the priest. "You can't do 
that. You've got no right to do that." 
The priest looked down. "I will not be 
made ... " 
"No, you can't do that.'' Torch walked 
into the passengers' section, jarring against 
those moving toward the exit. 

He returned shortly thereafter, his 
trench coat cradled on the arm which held 
his suitcase. The color had left his face, and 
when be spoke his voice was weak. He 
looked at the boy. "Hey ace, you're gonna 
stay with the stewardess for a while, 
okay? Until you get back to Chicago." The 
stewardess crouched down and asked the 
boy his name, but he ignored her, looking 
to Torch, and beginning to cry. Torch 
tried to smile. "Hey, it'll just be a couple 
of hours. You'll be back there in a little 
while." He turned to the stewardess. "Hey, 
if he doesn't cut it out don't give him 
any more beer. Okay? No more beer until 
he cuts it out." 

Torch stepped toward the door, then 
turned back to the priest. He began to 
speak, but stopped himself, and left the 
plane. 

And an hour later, having received a 
message just as he was released from 
Customs, he went to find his brother. 



Yale Film Society 
101 Linsly-Chittenden, 59 High Street, Yale University 
Showings at 7:00 and 9:30P.M. except where otherwise noted 
Friday, October 13 Saturday, October 14 
SALLY'S HOUNDS (1967) 
A mystery Jove story by Robert Edelstein. World Premiere. 
Tuesday, October 17 
A FRITZ LANG DOUBLE BILL 
His expressionistic classics DESTINY (1921) and SIEGFRIED (1923). 
Wednesday, October 18 
One show only at 8:00P.M. 
ALPHAVILLE (1965) 
Jean-Luc Godard's ''Tarzan vs. IBM" 
With Eddie Constantine, Anna Karina, Akim Tamiroff. 
Thursday, October 19 
MASCULINE, FEMININE (1966) 
Godard's "The Children of Marx and Coca Cola" 
With Jean-Pierre Deaud, Chantal Goya. A New Haven Premiere. 
Friday, October 20 
ANDY WARHOL'S HARLOT (1965) 
"Dealing with the Jean Harlow cult, but not with Harlow directly." 
Saturday, October 21 
LA NOTTE (1962) 
The second of Michelangelo Antonioni's classic trilogy. 
With Jeanne Moreau, Marcello Mastroianni, Monica Vitti. 
THREE SHOWINGS: at 3:00, 7:00, and 9:30P.M. 
Tuesday, October 24 
POTEMKIN (1925) 
Sergei Eisenstein's early masterpiece of montage.


Announcing Upperclass Sales 
LAW SCHOOL 2501-2600 
Duke Collier 
776-4878 
LAW SCHOOL 2601-2674, 
1754-1785 
Marc Klein 
787-1996 
MEDICAL SCHOOL 
Steve Kovacs 
787-4456 
BERKELEY 
Mike Baris 
865-0750 
BRANFORD 
Herb Schmidt 
776-5749 
CALHOUN 
Dolph Printz 
777-8839 
DAVENPORT 
Dan Bruno 
772-2081 
JONATHAN EDWARDS 
Rich Rose 
772-1845 
MORSE 
Fred Shessel 
PIERSON 
Bob Sampson 
S62-716S 
WORLD'S FINEST QUALITY 
ONE PIECE RING 
Your student agency representative will 
contact you in your room. Call him for 
an appointment. 
Competitively priced 
Your class year dates 
Your personal initials 
Lifetime guarantee 
Choose from seven new styles 
For the first time, law and medical 
school rings are now available. 
STUDENT SALES AGENCY 
Hendrie Hall 
777- 2521 
SAYBROOK 
Jim Metzloff 
772-2125 
SILLIMAN 
Jeff Daisy 
772-1291 
STILES 
Tom Taylor 
787-2683 
TIMOTHY DWIGHT 
Phil Moncharsh 
562-1208 
TRUMBULL 
Bob Greenwald 
772--0859 
OLD CAMPUS 93-183, 218-232 
Ed Forand 
772--0394 
OLD CAMPUS 1066-1135, 
273-312 
PeteSheras 
772-2767 
OLD CAMPUS 1-69 
Henry Smythe 
776-4189 
OLD CAMPUS 184-217, 
233-272 
Tracy Godfrey 
562-7610 
OLD CAMPUS 313-392 
Gary Love 
772-0438 


• 
THE YALE SCHOOL OF DRAMA REPERTORY THEATRE PRESENTS 
JOHN FORD'S'Tis Pity 
She's 
a Whore 
A JACOBEAN TRAGEDY 
OF INCEST AND MURDER 
DIRECTED BY KENNETH HAIGH 
OPENS MONDAY OCTOBER 16 FOR TWO WEEKS ONLY 
THE WORLD PREMIERE OF 
JOSEPH HELLER'S we 
Bombed 
• 1n 
Ne\NHaven 
A SURREAL COMEDY OF WAR BY THE AUTHOR OF "CATCH 22" 
DIRECTED BY LARRY ARRICK 
OPENS DECEMBER 4 
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL (203) 582-9953 
OR WRITE: THE YALE SCHOOL OF DRAMA, NEW HAVEN, CONN. 06520 

