Publication date: April 14, 1968
Volume: one
Issue number: eleven


**MASTHEAD:**
- Editor: Daniel H. Yergin
- Publisher: Peter Yaeger
- Executive Editor: Jeffrey Pollock
- Designer: Ronald Gross
- Photography Editor: Herman Hong
- Advertising Manager: Jeffrey Denner
- Associate Editors: Susan Braudy, Jonathan Lear
- Circulation Manager: Jean-Pierre Jordan
- Copy Editor: Alan Wachtel
- Classifieds: William M. Burstein
- Contributing Editors: Jonathan Aaron, Michael Lerner, Steven Weisman
- Staff: John Boak, Paul Bennett, Peter M. C. Choy, Jennifer Josephy, Larry Lasker, Christopher Little, Howard Newman, Barney Rubin, James Scherer, Warner Wada
- Advertising: Joe Ambash, Bill Gerber, Jeffrey Harrison, Jon Hoffman, John Jeffries, Chris Moffit, Howie Newman, Will Rhodes, Edmund Robinson, Roger Sametz, Sam Sutherland, Steve Weise, Jeff Wheelright, Rick Wilson


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- The Library: renewal or requiem - Robert Grant Irving
- Revisionism in Yale's history department - Martin Griffin
- To Surf, with love - Brian DiSalvatore
- Mr. Midshipman goes to college: a lesson in doublethink - William Yuen
- Books in review
- Letters


**Title: The heart of the University: renewal or requiem?**
**Author: Robert Grant Irving**
**Page number(s): 3**

This June, as soon as alumni reunions
have disbanded, the steel forks of a power
shovel will devour the lawns of Yale's
Cross Campus. This spacious, grassy area,
bounded by Berkeley and Calhoun
Colleges and W. L. Harkness Hall, has
for nearly forty years marked the center
of the University. Now, unless voices
are beard swiftly and clearly in its defense,
the Cross Campus in its present form
will disappear forever.


Gone will be the impressive sweep of
mamcured green that provided a carpet for
band concert audiences, a playing field
for exam-weary undergraduates and an
appropriately handsome assembly point
for Yale's Commencement processions and
alumni parades. Instead the lawn will be
reduced to a patch less than one-third
the size of the present area, and this
vestigial souvenir will be surrounded by
mor~ than 3,300 square feet of glass
skyhgbts and assorted species of ground
cover and ornamental trees. Like
so many places of historic interest and
natural beauty, the Cross Campus will fall
victim to indifference, compromise and
short-term solutions. Ironically, its death
knell wiJI be rung in the name of the
building for which it has long furnished
s~ch a splendid setting: Sterling Memorial
Ltbrary. Tragica!Jy, the Library a dis-
tinguished example of Beaux ~ts
sensibilities and planning, will itself not
escape unscathed.


Dedicated amid much ceremony 37
years ago this month, on April 4, 1931,
as a personal monument to one of Yale's
most generous benefactors, the Sterling
Memorial Library has become inadequate
to its task. Today no one can or does
dispute the need for more space. Rather
the central question is the manner of
achieving this goal.


With the University unwilling to pay
the high price for properties on York
S~reet between Mory's and Broadway, the
Ltbrary has chosen two sites for
immediate construction: the large inner
light court in the stack area, and the
western half of the Cross Campus,
between the north and south courtyards
of Berkeley College.


The proposed light court addition will
not affect the general appearance of the
present Library to the casual visitor.
More obvious and intrusive will be the
insertion in the main entrance hall,
or nave, of a lighted information desk
and of a stair leading to the new under-
ground areas. The stairway will be
surrounded by a thick glass wall three
feet high, in the center of the Library nave.
The unsightly shelves of indexes which
currently choke the towering ball and
impede its normal circulation pattern are
a temporary expedient which dramatize
the library's needs. The stairway will be
permanent and irrevocable. U executed as
f!.obert Grant Irving, Yale College 1962,
IS a graduate student in the History of Art
Department, specializing in British
and American architecture, and holds
a master's degree from the His tory De-
partment. He has studied on a Fulbright
grant at Cambridge University and at
Balliol College, Oxford, from which he
received the graduate degree of Bachelor
of Letters.


planned, it will spell the demise of the
unencumbered vista down the nave
intended by the original architect, James
Gamble Rogers, 1889. In 1928, Rogers,
a personal friend of the donor, John
William Sterling, 1864, indicated the
importance of this generous public space,
when he wrote thal the nave should be
"large and imposing, to give the best first
impression and the best last impression."
The obvious alternative, of course, is to
place the stairway and information desk
in the side aisle to the north, where staff
offices are now located. Upon descending
the stairs, one would be within two steps of
the ramp leading to the underground
areas. This solution, according to Uni-
versity Librarian James Tanis, 1941, is
structura!Jy feasible and was his own first
intention.


The reasons for its rejection are in-
structive. According to Tanis, the New
York firm of Edward Larrabee Barnes,
the present architects, argue that the
nave site is "more straightforward and
direct"; that to appear "logical" the
entrance must be on axis with the rooms
under the Cross Campus, and that the Area
Studies scholars who intend to use those
underground rooms have said that the
side aisle placement would make their
work area appear too "peripheral."


The wishes of these same Area Studies
professors dictated the skylight system
which will dominate the altered Cross
Campus. East Asian, Southeast Asian,
Russian and East European scholars, who
will utilize the 60,000 square feet of
faculty offices, seminar and reading rooms
and book stacks beneath the Cross
Campus, have insisted on having "natural
fight" for their study area. Fears that the
absence of direct daylight will induce
claustrophobia have apparently been
expressed by a sizable minority.


These arguments, ironically, have been
countered in an elaborate portfolio of
pictures and text prepared by the Uni-
versity itself for potential donors to the
Library scheme. The text implies that
the interior light court is now obsolete
since its "original function of providing
light and air to the stacks, seminar rooms,
departmental libraries, and other facilities
which surround it on four sides has been
rendered unnecessary by the advent of
modern lighting and air conditioning."


Sophisticated new methods of artificial
lighting, a vast improvement over the
old bulbs and bare fluorescent fixtures will
furnish illumination for the scores of '
windowless spaces, new and old, in the
book tower. Artificial light, unsupple-
mented by daylight, has also been
considered adequate both psychologically
and functionally for the proposed under-
ground Historical Manuscripts and
Yale Publications Rooms.


But a similar solution for the Area
Studies facilities has been rejected. Instead,
sixteen skylights, each eight feet wide
and twenty-six feet long, and arranged in
the surface of the Cross Campus in two
rows of eight, will provide daylight to
the new reading rooms below. Even this
daylight will be insufficient and will at
all times require supplementary light.
. Thus f.uncti?nally unnecessary, the sky-
hghts whtch wtll drastically alter the Cross
Campus appearance are the result of
a>sychological anxieties about closed
~paces. Yet elsewhere in the same library,
tmproved artificial lighting devices and air
conditioning have been thought sufficient
to render such fears negligible
and obsolete.



**Title: Draft**
**Author: Rand Rosenblatt**
**Page number(s): 2**

At the Resistance rally on April 3,
Staugbton Lynd urged the university
anti-war movement to get off the campus
and to develop new strategies for reaching
all the American people. One such
strategy is draft action.


Draft action is partly rooted in the
religious pacifist tradition that is recog-
nized as conscientious objection by the
Selective Service System. But the pacifist
tradition is limited to a faith that demands
a transcendent critique of human in-
stitutions. As escalation mounted in
Vietnam, new groups began in Berkeley,
Chicago, New York and Boston. They
embody a variety of ideas and strategies,
but they have two common aims: a desire
to reach everyone who is "up tight" with
the draft (regardless of religious or
political belief) and a determination to do
battle with the system which is generating
the war in Vietnam.


Traditional draft counseling offices were
passive, religiously oriented and severely
restricted in activities; the new groups
are activist, politically radical, and linked
to a wide range of social and cultural
movements. The Boston Draft Resistance
Group trains new counselors in batches
of one hundred, helps men avoid induction
through a variety of deferments, searches
out new 1-A's to talk to, holds mass dem-
onstrations, and coordinates more than
twenty community and university
projects. The Berkeley area movement
claims up to 30 draft refusers per week.


The organizers of these activities span
the entire spectrum of dissent, from
radical pacifists and Resistance members
through political organizers and black
militants to hippie drop-outs. Draft action
confronts the war on two levels: the
immediate level of saving men's Jives and
putting pressure on the government, and
the long-range level of transforming
America's institutions from machines of
concealed inequity to instruments for
democratic values. Both tasks are still
urgent; the recent possibility of nego-
tiations in Vietnam has done nothing to
Jessen the draft calls or to encourage a
clear rethinking of America's world policy.


Four weeks ago the New Haven Draft
Action Group opened its office at 241
Orange Street. It encourages new members
and plans to offer expert counseling on
draft Jaw and to organize at Yale and in
the New Haven community.



**Title: Sisters**
**Author:  (Author not specified)**
**Page number(s): 2, 15**

Chekhov, like the weather, is what every-
one talks about and no one does anything
about. Among recent talkers is the Yale
Repertory Theatre with its production of
The Three Sisters. Although the company
did manage to present the play, it wasn't
able to exert much more constructive
influence over the script than the Weather
Bureau was able to exert over the month
of February.


Ah, Chekhovl Who is to know what to
make of this morose man who described
himself as a physician who has "also
written for the stage"? Acknowledged as
a master of minutiae and a consummate
dealer in details, Chekhov in a seemingly
casual moment can illuminate a drab life
and shed new light on the muddled efforts
we all make to Jive together.


Only Chekhov could get away with
appearing to ramble idly through the first
act of a masterpiece: the Prozorov girls
and their new friend Colonel Vershinin,
like expatriate New Yorkers ill met
in Grand Rapids, jabber mindlessly about
the streets of Moscow where Irina played
as a girl, where Olga and Masha became
women and where the Colonel (he was a
lieutenant then) fell in love. Through that
casual but compact chatter of Old Bas-
manya Street, Chekhov creates his people
and his world. He will spend the rest of
the evening giving flesh to their hopes and
disappointments, their confessions and
compromises and, of course, their de-
partures. In The Three Sisters, as in all
of his plays, the master gives the history of
people through carefully selected detail.


The long shot by way of the close-up is
the essence of his art.


In its richness and complexity, The
Three Sisters is probably Chekhov's finest
work. In it one hears the themes of all
modern playwriting, from O'Neill's obses·
sion with family history to the ·distant
rumblings of Beckett in Masha's toast:
"Here's to our empty life, the Hell
with it."


In a time when the production of
classics and established works seems to be
dominated by the thoughts of Jan Kott
and the sound of music is acid rock,
Chekhov is in danger of being forgotten;
for not even the Yale Drama School could
replace a samovar with a silver bowl of
pot. Quite to the contrary, Chekbov
au nature/ is proving a bit more durable
than most of the classics.


If in the Thirties American productions
of The Three Sisters seemed to be about
Tusenbach and his aristocrat's myopic
view of "work," and if in the Fifties, while
we were all chafing under the glare of
the Senator from Wisconsin, the play
seemed to be about Natasha, appearing
from nowhere to insinuate her nouveau
fangs into the Prozorovs, then in 1968, at
Yale at least, The Three Sisters seems to be
a play about Andrey, the intelligent,
ambitious and well-meaning man who
would not--or could not-
take a moral
stand. Clearly, The Three Sisters reaches
out of its own time and seeps into the
contemporary consciousness, illuminating
our lives and holding up to its own bright
light issues that would have seemed like
science fiction to the Prozorovs.


The Three Sisters does not offer oppor-
tunities for spectacular performances
such as Kenneth Haigh's Henry in the
recent Pirandello play. Rather it demands
the collective unfolding of a company's
skills; it calls for an ensemble effort in
which all the performances are excellent
and no seams are allowed to show. The
Yale Repertory Theatre eked out the
Pirandello on the strength of Mr. Haigh's
formidable performance. They apparently
are not ready for Chekhov. That the
production did not entirely hold together
is not because it was "long," as the local
paper would have it, but because its seams,
in the form of two of the three sisters,
were weak.


Of the three sisters, only Kathleen
Widdoes as Irina succeded in generating
excitement and the spirit of life. Rose
Arrick, who made her first appearance
with the company as Masha, was not quite
so successful. Miss Arrick created a suit-
able outline: her Masba was bitter, cynical
and full of herself. A good beginning; but
although her early scenes were interesting,
Miss Arrick was not able to meet the
role's complex demands in acts three and
four. Her performance held no surprises,
caught no one off balance and finally made
of Masha more a visitor from Peyton
Place than Chekhov's foolish, yet sympa-
thetic, crumbling lady. Jeanne Hepple .
as Olga, the third sister, the aging spinster,
managed to give a sense of desperation
and resignation, but her voice is harsh
and filled with repetitious rhythms and
patterns that make all her lines sound
alike.


The performances by the men were a
little more consistent. Baron Tusenbach
was Stacy Keach, who pranced through
the first two acts with an eagerness born of
sublime stupidity. His bewilderment at
the events of the final acts made a fine
counterpoint. Mr. Keach found a delicious
humor in his role, and his enthusiasm
in the early scenes was infectious. Barry
Morse, making his debut with the com-
pany in the role of Vershinin, also found
a gentle humor in his role. Mr. Morse
looks disarmingly like a young Bernard
Shaw, and even if he occasionally sounds
as if he were doing a James Mason imi-
tation, his command of the stage and its
language is apparent.


The best performances came in the
supporting roles. Michael Lombard's
Andrey, all frustrated intellect and
thwarted ambition, was superb. Mr.
Lombard skillfully changed Andrey from
an eager young man to a bitter middle-
aged one. Richard Jordan as Kulygin
played the fool with enough sympathy to
make it credible that, at 18, Masha might
have married him. Kulygin was less a
clown than a well-intentioned ass. It
stands as Mr. Jordan's best work by far
this season.


Paul Mann's Chebutykin was like a
great rambling bear, slowly turning from
warm and friendly to gruff and cynical.
That off-and-then-on-again member of the
company, Ron Leibman, played Solyony.
He was handsome and quite mad, if a
bit melodramatic.


Natasha was played by a student, Joan
Pape, who held her own in some heady
company. It is a rare opportunity for a
student to play a role of this size with a
company of this stature. That Miss Pape is
capable of it augurs well both for her
future and for the Dean's contention that
his students will learn best by working
side by side with the best.


The smaller roles were all played by
students who were for the most part
competent but, except in a few well-
shaped moments, obviously apprentices.
Despite the damning gaps in the acting,
there are some good things about the
production. Most important, the play's
continued on page 15



**The Sterling Library Expansion: A Controversy**
**Author:  Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 4-6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
41 The New Journal I Apri114, 1968 
Tentative plans by the architectural firm of E. L. Barnes call for 
16 skylights. The lawn, only 34 feet wide, will cover less 
than one-third the present area. 
l ____ __>j 
D 
GIU..SS 
U~ 
I 
P'.O.VINO 
~~ ~~·~~ ~~~ 
! 
L --JF-§~=:=:::::;=::===::===:::::=;::=::::::;==::===::=-~ - ----- - - -
_j 
One alternative to the projected plans is a wholly underground 
library without skylights. Another alternative, shown here, 
illuminates both floor levels with a light well system similar to 
that used in the Art and Architecture Building. 

Indeed, immediately north of the 
Beinecke Library and a scant few hundred 
feet from the proposed construction, the 
Yale Law School's International Law 
Library is an example of a successful 
underground facility that boasts no system 
of natural lighting. Tastefully lit by 
artificial means, and with only average 
ceiling heights, the library has produced 
no complaints of claustrophobia. On the 
contrary, faculty members and law 
students have commended it for creating 
an atmosphere free of distraction and 
conducive to extended periods of serious 
research and study. 

Elsewhere similar underground libr"aries 
have won high praise. The Johns H opkins 
University built its required spaces wholly 
underground. No massive skylight system 
mars the sweep of its lawns and the 
setting of its building. The underground 
reading areas have won accolades from 
both students and faculty, according 
to Robin Winks, a Johns Hopkins Ph.D. 
and professor of history at Yale. Likewise, 
Harvard's Fine Arts Library, including 
faculty-student carrels, is located beneath 
the Fogg Museum, without access to 
daylight. At least one Yale art history 
professor, who has used it frequently for 
research and writing, has expressed his 
enthusiastic admiration for the library as 
a place for concentrated work. 

Similarly, carrels at the Duke University 
Library are without daylight, but in the 
opinion of Gaddis Smith, a Yale history 
professor who formerly taught at Duke, 
they are wholly satisfactory for study 
and research. 

Despite such precedents at both Yale 
and other universities, a skylight system is 
nevertheless part of the Sterling Library 
scheme as currently projected. The nature 
of the glass to be used (covering an area 
of 3,328 square feet) is as yet uncertain. 
Probable breakage of the low-lying 
skylights by wayward missiles has posed 
a difficult problem for the architects. 
City codes regulating skylights require 
the use of wired glass which has the 
disadvantage of being easy to break and 
a genuine nuisance to replace. The archi-
tects prefer tempered glass, as it is 
stronger (although a rock or brick can 
break it). When broken, the tempered 
glass will shatter into small gravel-like bits 
which will not cause injury to the readers 
below, unlike the shower of sharp pieces 
of wired glass. But, according to the 
architects, necessary compliance with city 
codes may result in the use of a double 
layer of glass-tempered above, wired 
below. This double layer, to be tinted a 
dark color, will effectively distort and 
reduce the overhead view of sky and 
ornamental trees originally intended for 
the benefit of claustrophobes. Frequent 
maintenance will be required to clear the 
gently sloping skylights of snow and city 
soot in order to retain this rather unnatural 
upward vista. 

The skylit Cross Campus addition 
planned for immediate construction is 
situated between the two halves of 
Berkeley College, but eventually a lecture 
hall and other underground facilities 
(presumably skylit) are planned for the 
area bordered by Calhoun College and 
W. L. Harkness Hall. Continuous sub-
surface connection will thus be provided 
between Sterling and the proposed Social 
Sciences Library, to be located across 
College Street on the site of the Eliza-
bethan Club, the Treasurer's Office and 
the Department of University Health. 
Entrance and egress will be provided by ' 


--- Page 5 ---

S I The New Journal I April14, 1968 
a series of covered stairwells or stone 
pavilions. Construction of this later 
addition will mean the removal of the 
trees in the eastern half of the Cross 
Campus. 

At the west end of the Cross Campus, 
adjoining High Street, the architects intend 
to build, in their words, "a beautiful 
European-type plaza," faced with Belgian 
block paving. The present yew hedges 
will be eliminated. The architects hope 
eventually to negotiate with the City of 
New Haven to extend the plaza across 
High Street, making it some 22,500 square 
feet in area. The.re will be two trees. 

In keeping with this "European em-
phasis," small trees, possibly lindens, will 
be planted between the skylights in the 
central area. These will be pruned to form 
a small canopied mass beginning some 
six feet above the skylights and rising a 
maximum of fifteen to twenty feet. The 
architects also feel that the projection 
of artificial light from the skylights at 
night will "enliven" the Cross Campus. 
The prospect of a Cross Campus aglow 
like a jukebox has already been labeled 
"garish" and "nightmarish" by one 
professor. The fundamental problem of 
drainage in the area, the architects admit, 
is one of their "biggest problems." And 
no solution has been reached. 

Most intimately affected by the 
projected scheme is, of course, Berkeley 
CoJiege. Several proposals under con-
sideration by the architects and Yale 
include the elimination of the Cross 
Campus gates of Berkeley or their 
alteration, upsetting the whole circulation 
pattern of the courtyards. Other pro-
posals envision a pavilion in the Master's 
garden as a public entrance to the north 
court, matched by a pavilion entrance into 
the Fellows' garden on the south. The 
architects have pressed for this solution, 
because it would eliminate the few stairs 
between the adjacent courtyards. But it 
would also sizably reduce the Master's 
garden, as would a projected library 
fire exit. 

Plans for retaining the Berkeley 
tunnel, which connects the north and 
south courts, call for making it both 
narrower and deeper. Final proposals 
await a University survey of the passage. 
Steel piles for the new library will be 
driven down just outside the Cross 
Campus walls of Berkeley. The architects 
say they may have to excavate the 
Berkeley courtyards in order to install 
the electric conduit and other services for 
the new library. 

Though the plans have yet to be pre-
sented formally to the Fellows of Berkeley 
College, the Master of Berkeley, Charles 
A. Walker, professor of engineering, 
was first shown the detailed drawings in 
mid-March, only three months before 
the beginning of construction. While 
acknowledging the Library's needs to 
expand, Walker considers the proposals 
be saw in March to alter the surface of 
the Cross Campus and the fabric of 
Berkeley "nothing short of an outrage.·· 
"Ten years from now," he says, 
"persons at Yale will wonder how such a 
thing was seriously contemplated. This is 
dearly a case of architects out of control." 

Professor Louis Martt, chairman of 
the Faculty Advisory Committee for the 
library, shares Walker's concern over 
the alteration or removal of the Berkeley 
~liege gates. "This proposal," MartZ said 
Ill March, "which was only shown to the 
"'Faculty Committee recently, is certainly a 
case where the architects will have to 
be closely watched." 

Martz's committee was appointed in 
September, 1967, more than two years 
after proposals to expand the Library were 
initially contemplated by the Library 
administration. This is the first year, 
said Martz, that there has been a full-
fledged Committee on the Library. 

Martz feels the Cross Campus plans 
should come as no surprise to the Yale 
community. His committee has been 
meeting since autumn with groups that 
wm use the new space: the Area Studies 
Committee, the Concilium on Inter-
national Affairs and the staff of the 
Historical Manuscripts Room. "None of 
us has hesitated to discuss the plans with 
his friends," said Martz. "The designs have 
achieved considerable publicity." None-
theless, there have been no public 
meetings, and Tanis has not sent copies 
of the designs to every professor in the 
University, as did Andrew Keogh, the 
librarian when Sterling was being planned. 

In fact, not more than a handful of 
persons has seen the architects' most 
recent renderings. At an April 2 meeting 
of the History Department with Tanis, for 
example, not a single drawing of the 
Cross Campus proposals was shown to 
faculty members. 

The expansion under the Cross Campus 
will provide just a fraction of the space 
needed, Martz adds. The area under 
the Cross Campus, moreover, is to be 
flexible space. Martz suggests it might even 
be used for something other than Area 
Studies when the Social Science Center 
is completed. 

"I'm actually a bit surprised to hear that 
there is any disagreement about the 
skylights," Martz said. "Our committee 
hasn't really heard much opposition"-
perhaps because almost no one in the Yale 
community has been shown the plans. 

Caught in the cross-fire of conflicting 
desires is the University Librarian, James 
Tanis, who is, ironically, a graduate of 
Berkeley College and currently a Fellow. 
While anxious to consult with interested 
parties, Tanis, unlike his predecessor, 
Keogh, feels public discussion is not 
practicable or useful. "A circularized 
questionnaire to faculty about needs and 
priorities is simply not relevant to our 
expansion," he said recently. 

Tanis's concurrence is essential to any 
of the architect's proposals. Together with 
President Brewster and Edward Barnes, 
the chief architect, he makes the crucial 
decisions, despite the existence of an 
elaborate bureaucratic filtering process. 
Reservations, for example, on the part of 
President Brewster (and one or two 
members of the Corporation) about the 
original Cross Campus design-ranks of 
prominently raised skylights covering 
the entire central area between the 
Berkeley courtyards-killed it. 

Other important details, unlikely to 
attract the President's attention. wiU be 
primarily the responsibility of the 
architects and Tanis. An example is the 
proposed connection between Linonia and 
Brothers and a projected Reserve Book 
Room on Wall Street. A connecting door 
in the north end of L&B has the double 
disadvantage of destroying the beauty and 
symmetry of that wall, with its handsome 
stone fireplace and mellow paneling, 
dominated by a portrait of Elihu Yale, and 
transforming the restful atmosphere of 
the reading room into a thoroughfare to 
the new Reserve Room. The necessity 
of connecting the two rooms at all has 


--- Page 6 ---

61 The New Journal I April14, 1968 
been questioned, and alternative proposals 
are being considered by the Librarian. 

Designs are still in a flexible state for 
the entire library scheme, but final 
decisions on the Cross Campus spaces, 
currently scheduled for construction 
between mid-June, 1968, and September, 
1969, will be made this month and next. 
Much of the final decision-making will 
depend on detailed cost estimates. Many of 
the Library administration's original 
intentions have already been scrapped 
through lack of funds. Tentative cost for 
the entire scheme is $10 million, with 
about $2.5 million allotted for the Cross 
Campus expansion. The need for funds is 
acute, and donors have not been forth-
coming, as the opportunity for personal 
monuments is not obvious in a project that 
is essentially an expansion of an already-
existing memorial building. 

Thus the form of the Cross Campus 
Library is still subject to negotiation, 
although Barnes's office is proceeding at 
full speed toward completed construction 
documents for a skylit area. The month 
of June is, in their own words, their 
"incredible deadline." If excavation of 
the Cross Campus does not commence in 
June, 1968, it must be postponed until 
the annual summer dispersal of students 
and faculty in June, 1969. 

U costs prove too high, or if sufficient 
public objection is raised, the less ex-
pensive, safer and aesthetically preferable 
alternative of a wholly underground 
library, without skylights, may be adopted. 
Other alternatives exist. If natural light 
is insisted upon, the Library could provide 
for a light well (commonly called "moat" 
at Yale) at the base of the Cross Campus 
walls of Berkeley, between those structures 
and the present walkways. A local con-
struction engineer has pronounced the 
proposal entirely feasible, and a successful 
precedent exists at Yale's Art and 
Architecture Building. There a two-story 
light well on Chapel Street illuminates 
both the Art Library and the Graphics 
Department below. An ingenious skylight 
system at the base of the well (with no 
vulnerable flat surfaces of glass) provides 
access to natural light for yet another 
story. A similar system on the north side 
of the Art Library lights two sub-
surface levels. 

If used in the Cross Campus in lieu of 
a skylight system, a light well arrangement 
would have several important advantages. 
It would enlarge the library, permitting 
the addition of another entire level of 
reading rooms (or a mezzanine), where the 
present cumbersome skylights permit 
only one level. It would provide floor-
to-ceiling windows and the natural light 
which is demanded by some Area Studies 
scholars. Finally, placed at the periphery, 
it would alter the appearance of the 
Cross Campus only minimally. 

Approximately eight feet wide in each 
case, bordered on the surface by a low 
stone wall and suitably landscaped with 
shrubs and vines, the light wells could be 
made indistinguishable from similar 
arrangements which already exist on the 
east and west sides of Berkeley's south 
court. 

The point is this: alternatives to the 
present plan do exist, and they could be 
worked out by the current designers. It 
must now be asked whether the archi-
tects' initial commitment to skylights and 
the University's hurry to begin excavating 
this June (rather than in 1969) have not 
left these alternatives unexplored. De-
cisions permanently affecting the physical 
appearance of the center of the campus 
require not haste and "incredible dead-
lines" for architects, but thorough 
consideration. 

Among those who would most like to 
see an alternative to the proposed dis-
figurement of James Gamble Rogers's 
masterly Cross Campus design and 
Sterling Library interior is Allan Green-
berg, a local architect who received his 
Master of Architecture degree from Yale. 
Greenberg is currently working on two 
important projects which, like Sterling, 
involve additions to existing twentieth-
century buildings: Paul Cret's Superior 
Court Building and Don Barber's Supreme 
Court Building, both in Hartford. 

"A destructive and antagonistic attitude 
toward most buildings constructed in the 
first thirty or forty years of this century 
regrettably prevails among many archi-
tects today," Greenberg said recently. 
The view which equates traditional Beaux 
Arts edifices with waste and degeneracy 
was first proclaimed by the Austrian Adolf 
Loos and reinforced by the dicta of the 
influential Bauhaus group of architects 
and artists. As the critic and historian Sir 
John Summerson has pointed out, the 
Bauhaus attitude has been endorsed and 
enforced with a puritanical zeal during the 
past thirty years. An intense distaste 
for and even fear of ornament, like that 
found in Sterling (and of course in earlier 
buildings), has led to its ruthless ex-
termination. 

"This same insensitivity,'' said Green-
berg, "unfortunately prevails in the 
designs for a stairway (originally an 
escalator) in the main nave of Sterling, 
in the recently abandoned mezzanine plan 
for the Main Reading Room, in the plans 
to knock a door through the north wall 
of Linonia and Brothers, and in the 
needless destruction of the Cross 
Campus-which no sensitive architect 
could unabashedly pronounce an 'ugly, 
lifeless void.' " 

"It is particularly regrettable," he 
added, "that such a lack of accommoda-
tion toward existing buildings and spaces 
should be exhibited by the architectural 
firm which has charge of Yale's Master 
Plan." 

Greenberg's thoughts are echoed by 
Wesley E. Needham, Curator of Tibetan 
Literature in the University Library, 
Fellow of Trumbull College, and former 
architectural draftsman to architect 
James Gamble Rogers. Needham worked 
for Rogers on four important buildings 
at Ya1e, all given by John William Sterling: 
the Library, Trumbull College (originally 
Sterling Quadrangle), the Law Buildings 
and the Hall of Graduate Studies. 

"Mr. Sterling's will," Needham recalls, 
"left his estate to Yale for the erection of 
'at least one enduring, useful, and archi-
tecturally beautiful edifice, which will 
constitute a fitting memorial of my 
gratitude to and affection for my Alma 
Mater.'" As it turned out, the estate, 
over $29 million, was sufficient to endow 
professorships, fellowships and scholar-
ships, and to provide buildings for the 
Law School, Graduate School, Medical 
School, Divinity School, Sheffield 
Scientific School and Trumbull College. 
But the executors of Sterling's will con-
ceived of the Library as his principal 
memorial, and Rogers, as Sterling's per-
sonal friend, bent every effort to make 
this a reality. 

"An artistic masterpiece is a creation 
which is entire in itself," Needham says. 
"It is something to which nothing can 
be added and from which nothing can be 
subtracted without destroying the integrity 
of that first conception. It cannot be 
emphasized too much that the Library 
and the Cross Campus were carefully 
planned as an integral whole. The Cross 
Campus is important as the approach and 
setting for the Library.'' 

Needham points out that Rogers 
intended the Library to be approached 
from the present walkways at the 
margin of the Cross Campus so the 
building would be viewed obliquely 
and picturesquely, its entrance porch 
and book tower seen in an active play of 
movement against each other. The building 
was to be seen fronta1ly only as one 
came to High Street, whereupon the book 
tower would recede more modestly behind 
the handsome details of the entrance. 
The present banal scheme to move the 
walkways virtually to the center axis of the 
Cross Campus is, Needham feels, "an 
unthinking destruction of the entire 
original intention." 

Needham's remarks recall the dedi-
cation ceremonies in 1931, when John 
Anson Garver presented the building's 
symbolic key to President Angell. Garver 
reminded his audience that the Library 
was planned and erected only after 
Sterling's death. "The vision of this 
crowning memorial was never con-
templated by its donor. Under the spell 
of its strength and beauty and great spaces, 
one feels that Yale, in turn, is in some 
measure showing its appreciation and 
gratitude for these rich and enduring 
benefactions." 

Sterling died a bachelor. Today no 
member of his family remains to protest 
what he would surely have regarded as the 
desecration of the ample nave and splendid 
setting of his memorial. 

Unless someone else assumes that task, 
and asks postponement in order that 
alternatives may be considered, the very 
heart of the University will be irrevocably 
changed. Some argue that Yale cannot 
afford the time necessary to alter its 
present plans. Actually Yale cannot afford 
haste. Expenditure of millions of dollars 
is contemplated. As President Brewster 
himself has written, "The Library, of all 
the institutions of a university, is the one 
with the most pervasive effect upon the 
quality of the entire institution." If this is 
indeed true, can Yale afford makeshift, 
short-term solutions made under the 
pressure of "incredible deadlines"? 

If Cross Campus excavation and con-
struction are postponed until June, 1969, 
the architects, the Librarian and the 
President will have time in which to 
consider and reflect unhurriedly upon 
the multiple a1ternatives to the present 
designs. In this way, the appearance of the 
Cross Campus and the fabric of Sterling 
may be preserved for the future. 

Otherwise, as now planned, Yale's 
immediate gain will be 60,000 square feet 
of library space at a cost of $2.5 million. 
But the long-run cost will be great. The 
University will mutilate a treasure, a 
masterpiece of craftsmanship and in-
tegrated planning. It will lose the last opel! 
space, the last great expanse of lawn in 
the center of the campus. It will lose, 
in effect, its very core--its heart. And 
that, by anyone's standards, is a bad 
bargain.


**Revisionism in Yale's history department**
**Author: Martin Griffin**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
71 The New Journal I Aprill4, 1968 
Revisionism in Yale's 
history department 
by Martin Griffin 
Martin G ri/fin is an assistant professor 
II1Ui director of undergraduate studies 
In history. 

The day after the Department of History 
announced the new changes in its under-
graduate curriculum in January, the 
Yale Daily N ews carried an editorial 
congratulating the department for "a wise 
and imaginative restructuring" of the 
major, resulting in "sufficient flexibility" 
for "the most specialized or the most 
catholic of minds." Such "thoughtful, 
creative curriculum planning," the News 
continued, was a compliment to Yale 
students' "academic maturity and 
integrity." 

· Substantial changes in the curriculum 
of the H istory Department might be 
expected to attract the News' attention; 
History is Yale's largest department, 
with over 100 faculty members and 
affiliates, about 300 undergraduate majors, 
and for 1968-69, course offerings to the 
number of 130 terms. Yet if the News' 
attention was almost inevitably attracted, 
its praise is usually not easily won. The 
unanimous endorsement of the new pro-
gram by the department and the en-
thusiasm it evoked from the News 
suggested that both teachers and students 
considered the changes to be judicious 
and timely. 

Timely, certainly. The present program 
was barely five years old, but particularly 
within the past year it had increasingly 
become a focus of reflection and rest-
lessness. Discussions among the faculty, 
particularly the junior faculty, exhibited a 
growing discontent with the pedagogical 
implications of some of the requirements 
of the major. In May, the Student Advisory 
Committee, beaded by Professor Robin 
W. Winks, had presented to John M. Blum, 
then Chairman, a long and reasoned 
critique of the undergraduate program, 
making recommendations that were 
directed neither at the faculty's teaching 
nor at the department's offerings, but 
rather at restrictions against the students' 
fullest access to opportunities already 
available within the department. Most 
important, in the spring, Professor Henry 
A. Turner, Jr., a former Director of 
Undergraduate Studies in History, bad 
applied for and received support from the 
Moore Fund for a systematic and en-
compassing examination of the teaching 
of history in Yale College. His recom-
mendations, grounded in part on his survey 
of history programs at other American 
universities, were to become the basis of 
the reforms enacted the following fall. 

Everyone acknowledged that the chief 
barrier to reform was the departmental 
examination. How far it hampered the 
teaching of history in Yale College is only 
now becoming fully apparent. But last 
year it was apparent enough. In April, the 
Course of Study Committee voted to 
propose in the fall that departments be 
allowed to devise alternatives to the 
standard two-day, four-hours-per-day 
examination that had been required 
in Yale College since 1937. 

The examination was unsatisfactory, of 
course, not per se but because of the 
degree to which it determined the entire 
structure of the history major. Any 
history department must be concemed 
that its students' schedules show both 
specialization and diversity. But because 
Yale College required a two-day ex-
amination, the History Department was 
obliged to translate this concem into 
a requirement that each student display 
equal competence in two areas of history 
out of eight, defined geographically. This 
amounted to something like demanding 
two majors, and it committed the under-
graduate program to a geographical 
division of historical fields that was both 
confining and old-fashioned. It is true that 
the department's offerings were abundant, 
and that the eight areas, of which the 
student had to pick two, covered almost 
the entire earth. But anyone with a scintilla 
of imagination can slice 100 courses in 
more than eight ways. Thus a student who 
wanted a perfectly sensible and not very 
daring topical specialty, like in-
tellectual history or social history, or a 
completely respectable chronological one, 
like nineteenth-century Britain and 
Europe, was discouraged and sometimes 
actually prevented by the structure of 
the major from pursuing it. 

The restrictions that the examination 
thus imposed on the department's free 
utilization of its resources were a com-
paratively recent phenomenon, the result 
of the growing depth and diversity of the 
resources themselves. The 1967-68 
Programs of Study catalog took 15 pages 
to list well over 100 terms of history 
courses, somewhat fewer than a third of 
them in non-Western history. In 20 years 
the number of courses had almost doubled, 
and the proportion of non-Western courses 
to those in the traditional field had tripled. 
This expansion of the curriculum was a 
function of an impressive growth in the 
size of the staff from about 30 in 1948 to 
about 60 in 1960 and to about 100 in 
1967, a signal that the department had 
aggressively and spiritedly determined to 
make its province the entire globe and its 
business history in all its manifestations. 

Such a determination issued from a host of 
factors, chief among them a post-war 
intellectual reorientation of the entire 
nation, and closer to home, the Univer-
sity's decision in the Fifties to support area 
studies programs on an ambitious scale. 

This was the background of this fall's 
reorganization of the history curriculum, 
after the Yale College Faculty had 
approved the Course of Study Committee's 
proposal on the departmental examination 
in early November. The fundamental 
question which then faced the department 
seemed straightforward: By what ad-
ministrative machinery could the depart-
ment best employ its resources in teaching 
history to undergraduates? Like many 
simple questions, this one masked com-
plications of some magnitude. What, for 
example, is history? No history department 
worth its hire would be able to answer 
that question with one voice, but two 
propositions were self-evident, and on 
them Professor Tumer based his recom-
mendations. The first was that whatever 
else history is, it is written; and the second 
was that, as Turner's proposal declared, 
there is a "vital distinction between history 
as the events of the past and history as 
the discipline of historical inquiry." That 
distinction, he added, was one which the 
present major had failed to convey to 
many students, and one which could be 
conveyed, in his judgment, only by 
allowing (or requiring) each student to 
write an independent historical essay. 

He therefore proposed that beginning 
with the Class of 1970, the department 
require an historical essay from each 
senior. He recommended a maximum 
length of 50 pages. on the well-known 
grounds that it is easier to write 100 pages 
than a polished essay of 50 pages on the 
same subject, and in order to emphasize 
the department's conviction that, as the 
1968-69 catalogue declares, .. precision, 
revision, and conciseness are essential to 
good historical writing or, for that matter, 
to good writing of any sort." The faculty 
unanimously endorsed this proposal, and 
did so with full knowledge that it would 
mean additional work for everyone, since 
each essay would receive individual 
supervision from a member of the faculty 
in the area of the student's topic. 

Besides the historical essay, Turner 
made another proposal: that each major 
be required, during his junior year, to take 
a seminar in a subject of his choice, both 
to deepen his knowledge in his field of 
concentration and to prepare himself for 
the writing of his essay during senior year. 
This recommendation met with instant 
acceptance. By last fall there was not a 
member of the faculty who did not realize 
that the department's seminars were 
probably its soundest, most popular and 
most productive courses, thoroughly tested 
by development and growth over a num-
ber of years. Under the rubric of History 
80, History 81 and History 85, these 
seminars had increased from about seven 
or eight a year during the Fifties and early 
Sixties, to more than 20 during the aca-
demic year 1967-68. Admission bad been 
competitive, sometimes intensely so. 

Students liked them for at least two 
reasons. One was that the standards en-
forced in the seminars were professional, 
and the s<udent of the "New Yale" was 
increasingly at least sub-professional in his 
approach to his studies. Another reason 
was that the seminars were both par-
ticipatory and personalized and thus 
agreed with certain other pedagogical 
ideals of present-day undergraduates. In-
structors liked such seminars because they 
permitted teaching from one's strengths 
and research interests and because the 
students in them tended to be unusually 
hard-working and responsive. 

Obligatory rather than optional 
seminars meant that the department would 
have to provide more of them. The answer 
to this problem was at hand. The sub-
stitution of an historical essay for the 
departmental examination freed the staff 
of History 89, of whom there were 
thirteen, for new seminars. History 89 
was a mandatory reading program for 
history majors, defined not so much on its 
own terms as in terms of the examination, 
for which, inter alia, its purpose was to 
prepare seniors. Well-intentioned, well-
manned, theoretically well-cqnceived, it 
had from its origin been unpopular with 
both faculty and students because of its 
inescapable role as a "prep course for the 
comps." With the abolition of the ex-
amination and consequently of History 89, 
the department was in the enviable posi-
tion of being able to make a requirement 
which it could enforce with excellence and 
variety, one which possessed demon-
strated appeal to both instructors and 
students. The new seminars are called 
History 91, and next year there will be well 
over 30 of them. Their function, in Pro-
fessor Turner's words, will be to give 
students "a thorough grounding in the 
subject matter, while at the same time 
providing them with the skills required to 
write history," each instructor being left 
substantially free to determine the most 
appropriate ways of achieving these 
objectives in his own seminar. 

The historical essay during senior year 
and the History 91 seminar during junicx 
year are thus the core of the department's 
new program. Mutalis mutandis, the 
essay-seminar combination bad defined 
the old Intensive Major, which was 
discontinued because any distinction 
continrud on fJ48e 14


**In Which our Hero lashes out against the evils of Vase**
**Author: Bryan DiSalvatore**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

8 I The New Journal! Apri114, 1968 
In Which our Hero lashes out against the evils of Vase 
It's hard to tell someone who has never 
surfed what it's like. I know what it's like. 
I have known the waves, and I have par-
ticipated in the ritual. It is a ritual, 
repeated endlessly in winter and summer, 
threatened only by outsiders and school. 

Usually three or four of us go surfing 
together-"The Group"-hard-core 
surfers from the low-rent, high-motivation 
district of a small Los Angeles suburb. 
An alarm clock can scramble brains at five 
in the morning, but with effort you can 
be on the road in fifteen minutes. 

The hour trip to Ventura passes quickly 
with stories of the night before. The 
morning fog begins to clear and the sun 
rises as we ride through Ventura on the 
way to Doc's point. If the surf isn't in good 
form, we go to the Donut Doctor in 
Carpenteria and then hustle back to Doc's 
or wherever the surf is best. A couple 
more cigarettes, a few songs on the radio, 
and it's time to take the surfboards down 
to the water and head out into the 
foaming waves. Oh God, the waves. 

During the long talks surfers have on 
warm summer nights, they often discuss 
the problems of overcrowding, but gen-
erally surfers recount past surfing 
experiences and attempt to explain the 
sport's appeal to the individual, attempt to 
explain just what it is about the waves. 
This is where they get themselves in 
trouble, because the sport cannot even be 
explained by those closest to it. 

"HelJ, it's funzoo, that's all." 

"I don't know man, surfing's a feeling, 
a groove." 

Good surfing is art. It is an ephemeral 
kick for most surfers, a hobby for others, 
and for a few it is a search for wisdom, 
a religion-the watery pantheism of a 
group indifferent to all except the sea 
and its waves. To non-surfers this devotion 
may seem bewildering. But they just 
don't know what it's like. 

Look around you. College life, both 
academic and social, is all right, but after 
a while you get fed up to HERE. When 
the sun is warm, Yale becomes so much 
like a pay toilet it scares me. I have no time 
Bryan DiSa/vatore, a sophomore in Yale 
College and a surfer since the age of 
nine, is the owner of more thanJorty 
issues of Surfer Magazine. 

for library tans. The same goes for after 
college. How many people can look at 
themselves and say honestly, "Wow, I'm 
happy, I'm doing exactly what I want 
with my life''? Surfing gives you, among 
other things, a good perspective on life. 
Really, most people today are losing big, 
and they never realize it. 

Surfers are romantics in a world that has 
little time for such people. They live for 
the waves, and little else matters when the 
surf is good. "There were these three 
bitchin' girls from Newport that we met 
who invited us to their apartment Saturday 
night. We knew we could get 'em. Po-
tentially a good scene. But we went to 
Pipes that day, and the surf was bonus. It ' 
stayed glassy all day with perfect shape. 
Well, we finally got out of the water at 
eight that evening. We had blown the 
whole thing with the chicks, but who's 
complaining? You can always get laid, but 
you just don't find good surf that often .. " 

The surfer travels miles for that instant 
beneath the curl, within the wave. Only 
rarely do surfers bring girls to the beach. 
The surfer, standing at an altar of fantasy 
and freedom, before the waves whose 
beauty, pleasure and challenge are suffi-
cient, needs no women. At night wine 
flows and the women are numerous, but 
they are not part of the individual 
mystique of surfer and wave. 

"Which would you rather have-a 
six-foot day at Malibu or Raquel Welch?'' 

"Well ... how many waves do I get?" 

Not many sports can ask such a 
formidable question. Perhaps part of the 
surfing mystique stems from its Spanish 
heritage. By the late 1950's, many Cali-
fornia surfers were heading south, into 
Baja California and beyond, to Mazatlan 
and La Paz. The life--one of sun and 
vino. The pace-"Lento, senor, Iento." 
They came home besandaled carrying 
botas and serapes. The bullfights in 
Tijuana added another aspect to the 
surfers' symbolic life. Their boards became 
a synthesis of cape and sword, sliding 
smoothly along the wave; their footwork 
the ballet of the torero. 

If surfing. is art and ballet, it is also 
rhythm, the movement of the surfer on the 
face of a shimmering green wall. A con-
tinuous flowing, one part falling into the 
next. The effortless dignity of an athlete 
blending with the waves' fluctuations. The 
nebulous, quixotic life of the surfer, with 
each wave different from its predecessor, 
grabs hold of you and rarely lets go. 

Phil Edwards, shaper for Hobie Surf-
boards and probably the best surfer alive, 
laughs, "Surfing sells you down the river. 
You are gently jazzed until you die." 

Once this feeling bits you, it is impossible 
to sit at a desk in Dirt City. You can never 
again view the industrial (or academic) 
empire you are a part of without regret. 
A few days or weeks out of the water and 
you snap. You look at insurance com-
pany calendars to see if the seascapes 
have any rideable waves. There is no time 
for the super-sophisticated, bored, "Oh-
gawd-Irving-where-is-it-all-going-to-
end?" attitude. Surfers are jazzed, 
"plugged into life," a life revolving com-
pletely around surfing. 

Surfers generally live in the present, 
for the present, their existence only 
slightly overlapped by the near past and 
future. But the ancient past of surfing is of 
interest, if only to demonstrate that it is not 
a new kick. When Captain Cook arrived 
in Hawaii in 1778, he was amazed by 
the bronze, nude pagans riding waves at 
Waikik1 on ten to eighteen-foot boards. 
When the Bounty arrived in Tahiti, the 
crew saw ... surfers. Oceania was 
crawling with them. 

Surfing was the central activity. The 
harvesting was forgotten if the surf came 
up. It was so much a part of their life that 
it was a part of courtship, with special 
privileges given to a man and woman 
riding the same wave together. This 
attitude toward surfing was Ka Nalu, the 
study of the wave. It was a path toward 
harmony with nature, and nature was God. 

By the turn of the century, Hawaii was 
becoming a popular tourist attraction. 
Among the tourists were California 
businessmen who saw the exotic appeal 
surfing had for the mainlanders. Boards 
were rented out and haoles, with the help 
of a beach boy ("$2.50 'n hour make-a-you 
'n wahine damgood sufurs ... hokay?''), 
could ride to the sands of Waikiki and 
write back to Wichita, etc., to teU their 
friends about it. But this surfing was 
hollow. Ka Nalu was to remain submerged 
for a decade or two longer. 

By 1912, surfing hasi come to Cali-
fornia, and the businessmen's efforts had 
turned the tourist flow from a trickJe to 
a torrent in Hawaii. The sport was on the 
rise. This increase in activity was slow 
because of the 125-pound redwood 
boards used at the time, but the nucleus of 
dedicated surfers was growing. The de-
pression came, and "There's no jobs, so 
let's go surfing." A small group of co11ege 
men lived on Southern California beaches 
with the Ka Nalu mystique maturing 
until the war came and scattered them. 

During the war, a skinny misanthrope 
with a crippled arm witnessed surfing for 
the first time. An engineering student at 
Caltech, he studied the "orbital flow of 
water particles" and watched the waves. 
He built a new surfboard-designed to 
fit the wave, light and maneuverable-and 
added a fin for stability. The war ended, 
and the surfers returned. The Bob 
Simmons Era was born. 

These surfers were not teenagers, but 
upper-class intellectuals, good-looking 
and tough, or as Dave Rochlen says, "solid 
guys who had this sport to themselves." 
On their new boards they raced ahead 
of the curl, always following Simmons. 
The cripple was their leader. ("Like the 
guy in The Fountainhead .... He was a 
man ... Neither gave nor asked quarter 
from anyone. 'Screw all you guys,' he'd 
say.") 

They went to the Islands, and came 
back to California, restless men with a 
hybrid Hawaiian-Malibu way of life. 

In the years 1945-54, surfing's Golden 
Age was reincarnated. The shacks sprung 
up at Windansea and Malibu, the men 
were lean and tough, oblivious to the 
writhing metropolis a few miles away. 
"I knew Blackie August," Rochlen 
recalls. "Lived in a cave at Palos Verdes 
Cove. He had a forty-gallon oil drum with 
a spigot for heat and light. He lived off 
nature, eating lobsters and stealing 
berries." The men were alone for the most 
part, living for the waves, enjoying life 
as the ancient Hawaiians must have. But 
things were changing. 

In 1954 a newspaper estimated there 
were 1500 surfers in the Southland. 
The number soon doubled and tripled. 
It had to. Can a Kansas summer compare 
to one in California? Simmons was no 
longer alone. The city was upon him. ne 
beach became a place to bring your girl 
and hoot with your guitar. Surfing was 00

91 The New Journal I April 14, 1968 
·ety and strikes a blow for the Legions of the Jazzed. 
longer anti-social. Jan and Dean tell it 
like it was: 

I'm gointa Surf City, 
Gonna shoot the curl. 
Gonna check out all the parties 
For a surfer girl. 

The men were out of place, Simmons most 
of all. Many went to Oahu's north shore, 
to escape the crushing hordes for a 
few more years. But wherever Simmons 
turned, he felt hemmed in: "I like to think 
that with quantity comes shit." 

In 1954 at Windansea, the storm surf 
came. Simmons drowned under one of 
the waves. It was, in a way, almost 
mer!=iful that he died before he could 
see what has happened to surfing since 
then. 

A new shack appeared at Malibu, but 
the original occupants had gone. Mickey 
Dora, a bridge between the two eras, 
expresses the thoughts of those who lived 
with Malibu in the early '50's: "Life is 
too short. Why make anything of it?" 

If the previous years were surfing's 
new Golden Age, these were its most 
colorful. "Nobody worked, our hair was 
long .... I guess we were pretty grubby.'' 
This group was younger, from 20 to 25. 
The days of style: the Dypso Calypso, 
the Quasimodo, el spontaneo, Tubesteak, 
No Pants Lance, Isaac and the Perves, the 
Fiasco Kid, Beakus and The Bag were 
their names. Malibu was loud and wild-
Holy Communion with Thunderbird 
wine and Langendorf bread, bullfights at 
Tijuana, beer and Gidget. 

Gidget, a "girl midget" as the story goes, 
1ras sent by her father to pump the surfers 
at girl-free (not girl-less) Malibu for 
material for a novel. The girl's father 
llnelled a winner, and in 1957 Gidget 
&ppeared. The bestselling novel turned 
Malibu inside out, eventually covering it 
1rith thick brown muck. Today it is the 
Mecca for all the fat tourists renting 
boards and tasting the good life-
another dying world. 

Gidget was made into a movie, and 
IUddenly everybody was surfing. The 
1r00dies rolled up and down the coast 
hipway, filled with a new breed. Malibu 
1ras a wasteland filled with mindless status 
leek:ers (average age: 16). The Doras 
IOd Tubesteaks were pushed back to make 
I'Oom for the mob. The ANNETTE 
PllNICELLO ERA had arrived (electric 
guitar fanfare-pan to 25 Hollywood 
fakes running into Lake Placid yelling 
"Surf's Up!"), with the Malibu regulars 
crying at the confusion of their lost world 
and laughing as they picked up their 
checks for riding in the surfing shots of 
Beach Blanket Bingo. For many, a bottle 
of peroxide to bleach the hair replaced the 
sun; others cruised the streets with never-
used boards on the tops of cars. "I don't 
surf'' was equivalent to "I don't wash." 

There was almost total acceptance of 
surfing among youth. The new kick. The 
adults were appalled at the long-haired 
hordes engulfing towns, raping and 
burning. Most of the trouble was caused 
by the people who had hopped off the 
set of "The Wild One" into "Gidget." 
These were the periphery, the moscas, 
many of whom have since traded their 
surfboards and wax for beads and grass to 
impress the tourists on Sunset Boulevard, 
and can be seen as the extras for The 
Trip today. 

From a few isolated rebels, surfing 
bad developed into a fad which engulfed 
American youth. Finally, inevitably 
following Hollywood, Madison Avenue 
discovered the gigantic market. Hungry 
surfers rode waves for the Pepsi Gen-
eration, sprawled themselves on Hamrn's 
Beer billboards, and rode into America's 
living rooms on shows like "Surf's Up" 
and "Wide World of Sports." 

The surfboard industry is now a multi-
million dollar business on both coasts 
with a lot of manufacturers producing up 
to six thousand boards a year. Like 
baseball and golf equipment, surfing bas 
its signature models. Models with catchy 
names trap the novice with their "in-
crowd" connotations: The Hustler, Da' 
Cat, Super Ugly, Blue Machine. Wax, 
trunks, surfboard racks, interchangeable 
tins, and even hand tins (to make paddling 
easier, of course) are available. 

Surfing is becoming "sophisticated,"' 
but for the few who really love the 'q>Ort, 
who would be out in the water even if 
the world bad never heard of surfing, all 
they need is a board, trunks, wax and 
waves. (Note that sun is not included. 
I remember more than once huddling over 
a fire with a few friends, shivering in the 
California winter with blue knees and 
numb feet.) Surfers tend to congregate 
where other people are not, and rarely 
bring suntan lotion, college or fraternity 
sweatshirts, transistor radios or the other 
essentials of a Fort Lauderdale Survival 
Kit to the beach. 

The surfboard, of course, is of prime 
importance, the surfer's one real love. 
You often see battered cars at the beach 
(nothing seems quite so incongruous as a 
Cadillac with a surfboard on top), but 
rarely will a top surfer ride a board that 
isn't in excellent condition. A ding (a dent 
or shatter in the board) causes much 
swearing, a wrecked board breaks a 
surfer's heart. I remember the summer in 
Mexico when our car spun out at 70 mph, 
destroying my new board. Upon regaining 
consciousness and crawling through the 
front window, I went directly to the 
board and bemoaned its splintered re-
mains, completely forgetting my friends' 
condition. Surfers try to be like other 
people, but they always slip up. 

With all the publicity given to surfing 
during the last few years, the California 
coast has become a fiberglass ocean. 
Everyone wants a part of the glory. But 
just as Yale is the acne-faced masturbator 
sitting alone in his room on Saturday night 
as well as the sports-car driving, frat-rat, 
ass bandit, surfing is not solely composed 
of the muscular, tanned deities of the 
waves. A friend of mine recently sold 
his board to some fourteen-year-old kid. 
The would-be surfer drove up with his 
family, bought the board, and couldn't 
even lift it onto the car. 

Often, after fighting for position on a 
wave, at the same time trying to avoid 
three or four other surfers, I dream of an 
isolated ~ach in western Australia. 
Nobody is within a hundred miles of me 
except a few friends, enjoying the waves 
by day, the beer and conversation by night. 
I wonder what it would have been like 
to surf in nineteenth-century California, 
or twentieth-century California with 
everyone gone because of the bomb. 
Everyone except me and a quiver of 
surfboards. 

Surfing is the kick. that can cure you of 
your complexes, real back-to-the-womb 
stuff. It can give "inner peace," a sort of 
wet transcendental meditation. Putting 
one's self next to nature, all is forgotten 
except the waves. It is a contest with few 
rules and many rewards. As Mickey Dora 
says, you can "live and ride nature's 
waves, without the oppressive hang-up of 
the mad insane complex that runs the 
world." 

Few except surfers know how the eyes 
strain for the first look at the ocean, and 
the endless conjecture as to what the surf. 
will be like; afterwards the satisfied re-
flection over a good ride, the warm, tired, 
healthy feeling after a day's waves and 
an anxiousness for tomorrow. It's an 
exclusive club. Phil Edwards calls non-
members the "legions of the unjazzed." 
Yale is teeming with legions of the 
unjazzed. 

This may seem over-idealized and 
maudlin to the mayonnaise-pill people of 
Yale, but this is Surfing. These are the 
feelings of surfers everywhere. This is why 
we pity people spending summers in New 
York, Chicago and St. Louis. There's not 
a hell of a lot to smile about today, but 
surfers have found something. 

These are incredible times. Thank God 
for a few free waves. 

"Full steam ahead, Poughkeepsie!" said 
President Alan Simpson, as he announced 
to his faculty that Vassar wasn"t moving 
to Yale. After vigorous applause, a 
profe~~r ro:.e to say be felt .. uniquely 
privileged to be at this historical turning 
point.'" 

"You bet it's a historical turning 
point.·· muttered a teacher to his col-
league. "It's just like the day the Romans 
let the barbarians cross the Rhine." 

The Vassar-Yale Story Inside Out 
In the next issue of The New Journal 



**Title: Mr. Midshipman goes to college: a lesson in doublethink**
**Author: William Yuen**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
As a result of recent student and faculty 
criticism, the status of Yale's Reserve Officer 
Training Corps and Naval ROTC programs is 
now under investigation. In accordance with 
contracts between the University and the 
secretaries of the Army and Navy, Yale 
grants credit for courses taken under the 
military programs, and also provides the 
military with classrooms, drill fields, offices 
and office equipment, storage space, heat, 
light, telephones, maintenance, janitors, and 
secretaries, all free of charge. 

The Student Advisory Board recently 
recommended that credit for military courses 
be denied, and that the military be charged 
for its use of Yale facilities. The Course of 
Study Committee is now reviewing the 
recommendations, and the Yale Corporation 
is planning to review the University's 
relationship with the military. 

Mephistopheles offered knowledge, power 
and material pleasures to Faust if he 
would sign away his soul. Faust developed 
some reservations about his bond, but 
he managed to ignore almost all the 
warning signs. He didn't get quite what 
he expected. 

The United States Navy approached 
me with a similar deal: Knowledge-a 
four-year scholarship to any of 52 top 
colleges; Power-
the opportunity to 
command and lead men and ships; and 
Material Pleasure-
join the Navy and see 
the world. I accepted, and the Navy has 
supplied the benefits. The price: surrender 
of my soul to four years of active duty. 

Faust could have appealed to God, but I 
have no similar recourse. 

I tried to break the bond, but the Navy 
does not give up without a fight. My 
attempts to resign from NROTC were 
stifled. I was treated like a heretic, a way-
ward sinner who would ultimately see 
the light and return to the fold. The only 
way to separate myself from NROTC 
was to flunk naval science, a seemingly 
impossible task. But I managed. I failed 
both the fall semester final and a special 
re-exam, thereby immediately making 
myself liable for a maximum of two years' 
active duty as a Navy enlisted man. 

As of April 1, 1968, I have been 
formally separated from the Navy and 
my appointment as Midshipman, USNR 
has been terminated. Although this is not 
a discharge, the Navy has decided not to 
keep me as an enlisted man and hold 
me to the two years' active duty require-
ment stipulated in my contract. 

I came to seek disengagement from the 
NROTC because I could no longer, in 
good conscience, voluntarily accept the 
responsibility of ordering subordinates to 
perform tasks that I find reprehensible, 
and because I could no longer condone the 
presence on the Yale campus of an 
organization that inculcates authoritarian 
and militaristic values in students. While 
I consider myself a conscientious objector 
to the Vietnam war, I do not consider 
going to jail a positive solution to the 
problem. I will probably surrender to a 
call to active duty, but not until I have 
exercised all legal means of protest. 

When I came to Yale, the decision to 
join NROTC seemed logical. I graduated 
from Punahou, one of nine private, non-
military schools in the country that re-
quire Junior ROTC. In my senior year I 
won the outstanding cadet award and 
placed first in the state NROTC college 
aptitude test. I was like a lot of other 
relatively immature boys who are over-
whelmed by a $4000 annual education bill 
and want to make it easier on Dad; an 
NROTC scholarship seemed the perfect 
way to get both a commission in the Navy 
and a free college education. 

I had never questioned the purpose, 
ideology or even educational policy of the 
military; and there was no one to point 
out the dangers. Junior ROTC was like a 
game that everybody had to play, 
complete with uniforms and toy guns. 

I did not realize that a liberal arts edu-
cation and a military education would be 
incompatible. The former encourages the 
student to question and criticize in his 
search for the truth, while the latter 
preaches a fixed truth and discourages 
innovation. The two disciplines are 
mutually exclusive, producing intellectual 
schizophrenia. 

William Yuen, a senior in Yale College, 
is majoring in history. 

I first began to question the implica-
tions of my involvement in NROTC last 
year. During my first two years here, even 
my closest friends described me as a 
militant fascist. But the absurdity and 
immorality of our military involvement 
in Vietnam and its adverse effects on 
domestic policy made me reconsider my 
commitment to the Navy. After spending 
half of last summer playing world 
policeman on ships of the US Sixth Fleet, 
I was convinced that the authoritarian 
and irrational military mind is a distinct 
threat to freedom of thought and action 
in America rather than the guardian of our 
liberties and defender of the free world. 

The military man tends to see all issues 
in terms of harsh opposites. People, 
nations and causes are seen as either good 
or bad, friendly or unfriendly, Free or 
Communist; the military concept of reality 
is the only concept of reality. The moral 
code is based on discipline in defense of 
lofty goals; freedom, individual liberty, 
private property, law and order. But to 
defend freedom in the abstract, the 
military man must give up most of his 
personal freedom, for the maintenance of 
order always outweighs any concern 
for the individual. To sustain the morale 
that enables the US to maintain a per-
petual state of military readiness through-
out the world, the military man must 
convince both himself and the rest of the 
country that our way of life is constantly 
menaced. Naval Leadership, a book 
used in Naval Science 402 at Yale, 
articulates this divine mission: 

To the people of the United States 
fall the moral duties of supporting 
freedom and the men throughout the 
world who are trying to gain it or 
regain it for themselves and their 
people. This support will take many 
forms, all involving a certain amount 
of sacrifice. All of these will divert 
energy and money from the increase of 
the American standard of living. The 
stabilization of the standard of living 
may be compensation in itself because 
it has been demonstrated by history 
that civilizations usually begin to 
decay when the way of life of the 
people becomes too soft; that is, when 
the standard of living becomes too 
high. 

The American people ... must feel 
a debt of gratitude to God for pro-
viding the great natural resources 
which have contributed to the over-
whelming power and force that can 
be mustered in support of right-
eousness and freedom. America has 
no choice but to become protector of 
the right in the world. 

The NROTC freshman is presented 
with a quasi-intellectual background for 
the military ethic as he studies naval 
history. Man's progress is revealed as a 
continuous development of better tech-
niques and weapons of destruction. 

Naval history is the continuous struggle for 
control of the seas. For instance, freshmen 
are taught the doctrine of sea power as 
preached by Alfred Thayer Mahan. 

Until he became a professor at the Naval 
War College in 1885, Mahan was against 
an American colonial empire, "not only 
to save the expense of the large navy that 
would be necessary to protect them, but 
also to avoid the dominance of a powerful 
military caste over the democratic 
processes of government." But as he 
studied Britain's rise to world dominance, 
illusions of grandeur and glory filled 
his bead. He decided that the United 
States possessed all the prerequisites for 
being a great empire on the English model 
except for a government that understood 
and appreciated the value of sea power, 
and he began to agitate for a strong navy 
and the acquisition of colonies. A navy 
was necessary to the colonies, and the 
colonies were needed to sustain the over-
seas navy. This circular reasoning is 
unfortunately still promoted as a valid 
scholarly basis for American naval power. 

NROTC teaches Mahan's thought to 
establish an intellectual framework for 
future study, and this is the basis of 
an NROTC education. 

What does it mean to be a midshipman? 
NROTC midshipmen are expected to 
comport themselves as officers. This 
means not only short hair and coat and 
tie, but also an unquestioning acceptance 
both of government pQlicy and of all 
regulations of the program. ''1be m ilitary 
is not a democracy," says an instructor. 

A midshipman is not limited in the 
courses he may take, but be is prohibited 
from majoring in art, pre-medicine and 
some other fields. He is not discouraged 
from participating in extracurricular 
activities, but he receives a higher aptitude 
for the service rating if he is "more 
active in NROTC than in other campus 
affairs" or if be demonstrates "insatiable 
and boundless curiosity with regard to 
naval activities and extreme pride in 
the service." 

Midshipmen are forbidden to express 
publicly any views critical of current 
national policy. I learned this after writing 
a letter to the Yale Daily News criticizing 
the NROTC program. "Naval officers," 
my commanding officer informed me in 
private, "do not picket, naval officers 
do not protest, naval officers do not sign 
petitions. Such actions do not inspire 
loyalty in the men. If officers set a .bad 
example, the men will feel it is all right for 
them to revolt." This rule is not only a 
violation of the individual's freedom of 
speech under the guise of military ex-
pediency, but an intellectual crutch as 
well. While it may be justifiable for 
an officer on active duty to be muzzled, 
should a student suffer repercussions for 
writing a paper critical of American policy 
or participating in a legitimate demon· 
stration? 

The content of NROTC courses is in-
tellectually repugnant; yet Yale encourages 
the program by giving it academic credit 
even when its teaching and procedures 
fall far short of the Yale norm. After the 
freshman course in naval history and 
sophomore courses in computer theory 
and psychology taught by the Yale faculty, 
the naval science curriculum becomes 
more of a trade-school course than a 
science. Courses in naval operations, naval 
leadership, naval engineering and navi-
gation become exercises in regurgitation 
of technical data and filling out forms. 

Contrary to popular opinion, NROTC 
courses are not guts; they do require work 
and the grades are not unusually high. 
But they are unique at Yale in that they 
require a minimum of creative thinking. 

Regulation of both subject matter and 
teaching lies outside normal faculty 
controls. Although they have not earned 
Ph.D.'s, naval officers on active duty are 
named assistant, associate and full pro-
fessors by Yale. The unit's commanding 
officer is appointed chairman of the Naval 
Science Department. Content of the 
courses is determined by the Navy and 
is subject to modification only by the 
. 
individual instructor and the commandiDI


officer. The Course of Study Committee 
continues to award academic credit for 
naval science courses although it has 
no control over the content of these 
courses. 

Some of the midshipmen share my 
opposition to American military and 
foreign policy and to particular aspects 
of the NROTC program. But they justify 
its presence and their participation in the 
program by saying that Yale should be 
permitted to produce her small share of 
leaders for the military establishment. 

They share my fears about dominance of 
the mindless products of the service 
academies. But we differ in that they feel 
the only way to change the military system 
is to work within it. Anyone with the 
patience to endure the restrictions and 
frustrations and to emerge thirty-five years 
later at the pinnacle of the Naval heap 
will have made so many adjustments and 
concessions to the military system that 
he could be but a shadow of the liberal, 
critical, thinking individual he was at 
araduation. 

My own experiences on summer cruises 
have only served to convince me that 
democracy has more to fear from the 
men who man her defenses and the system 
they perpetuate than from any Viet Cong 
auerrilla fighting for his freedom. 

The USS Charles Francis Adams is 
one of sixty-plus ships that at any given 
time compose the US Sixth Fleet in the 
Mediterranean. The captain of the ship, a 
araduate of the Naval War College and 
an admirer of Yale history professor 
Gaddis Smith, consented to give his eight 
embarked midshipmen a lecture on the 
goals of the US Navy in the Mediter-
ranean. "The two purposes of the Sixth 
Fleet," he began, "are containment of 
Soviet naval power in the Med and keeping 
the peac~in that order." 

The discussion moved to Vietnam and 
I found myself confronted by a roomful 
of hawks. The captain and my fellow 
middies from Annapolis believed that if 
the US pulled out of Vietnam, that nation 
would be overrun by faceless yellow 
communist hordes. They all made 
references to the devious Oriental mind, 
the international communist goal of 
world domination and historical 
precedent--China had always been 
invading Vietnam. I tried to remind them 
that China's domination of Vietnam had 
always been tenuous and that both Viet 
Cong and North Vietnamese movements 
were nationalist as well as communist. The 
captain retorted with the Truman 
doctrine-the US should move anywhere 
to contain communism. An Academy 
stalwart, who had previously informed me 
that Filipino stewards (present on all 
Navy ships), although they might be 
college graduates, preferred to wait on 
American officers because they could make 
more money than they might as teachers 
in the Philippines, concluded our dis-
cussion by stating that Korea was the 
perfect example of an American-supported 
stable government-police state and all. 

I knew when I was beaten, and I knew 
then that I had to get out.


**Title: The Wayward Puritans**
**Author: Kal Erikson**
**Page number(s): 12**

228 pages, John Wiley and Sons 
Part of every society is the constant search to 
define right from wrong, good from evil, normality 
from abnormality, etc. One mechanism whereby a society 
defines its position on various moral and legal issues is 
by promoting people to fill roles which test the issues. 
These testers are called deviants, and this adjudication 
process serves to articulate the value issues for the 
society. Once the issues have been aired, the testers may 
continue to be viewed as deviants, or under certain 
circumstances, as heroes. 

A case in point would be the recent developments on 
issues which have concerned students intensely. One 
year ago, it was highly probable that a young man who 
burned his Selective Service card in defiance of the 
draft law would have been quickly singled out and 
prosecuted. Lately, however, because entire groups of 
students congregate to defy the Selective Service System, 
and because religious and educational leaders have 
sanctioned the burning of the draft cards, the incidence 
of prosecution is extremely low. Similarly, anyone 
supporting Eugene McCarthy three months ago was 
considered a deviant, but the New Hampshire Democratic 
Primary provided a public airing of the issues. Today 
the M cCarthyites stand vindicated, and certainly as time 
goes on they are no longer considered the deviants they 
Qnce were. The deviant in society forever takes the risks, 
and gambles against the odds, while the rest of society 
acts as the censor-the Liberal vs. the Conservative 
incarnate. 

In The Wayward Puritans, Kai Erikson offers us a 
volume clearly written and highly relevant to these 
current social situations. Employing the methodologies 
of sociology and history, Erikson extrapolates from the 
early Puritan experience certain modes of behavior which 
he postulates can be treated as an example of human 
life everywhere. 

The study is based on the French sociologist Emile 
Durkheim's functional approach to society. One of the 
major postulates of this theory is that society can be 
viewed as a self-perpetuating mechanism, as an 
equilibrium-seeking entity, always tending towards 
homeostasis. Functionalists look at social behavior in 
terms of what that behavior contributes to the main-
tenance of a given society. Certain forms of behavior are 
termed eufunctional or functional if they make a 
positive contribution to society, and dysfunctional if 
they contribute negatively. 

Within this framework Erikson examines the functions 
of deviance in a society. Can deviance play a positive 
role in a society? In Eriksons words, " ... does it make 
any sense to assert that deviant forms of behavior are 
a natural or even beneficial part of social life?" Erikson 
answers yes. 

H is study is not based solely on scientific method, but 
is directed towards important scientific questions. It 
would be easy to praise or criticize the book on the basis 
of its methodological successes and limitations. On the 
one hand Erikson succeeded in .finding a community for 
study that was sufficiently isolated so that his data 
accurately reflected some of the internal dynamics of 
that society. On the other hand, the book may be criticized 
because the same isolation factor makes the society so 
unique as to make generalization impossible. 

It might be more profitable to ask for what purposes 
society designates certain behavior as deviant. Erikson 
hypothesizes that the purposes are to identify and main-
tain social boundaries. One might wonder why, after 
making this observation, he failed to discuss its moral 
implications. Erikson alludes to the moral social value by 
suggesting that labeling of behavior as deviant is a 
positive benefit; however, he does not consider the 
labeling mechanism in the open. 

If Erikson is correct in asserting that society labels an 
almost infinite variety of behavior as eccentric and 
deviant, then surely it is important to face the next 
intellectual task of questioning whether people can be 
sacrificed in their roles of deviants for the social purpose 
of testing boundaries. Are there other methods of setting 
limits in social space? Is it possible that promoting a 
group of citizens into criminality is too high a price for 
society to pay? 

Ronald Barson


**Title: Couples**
**Author: John Updike**

458 pages, Affred A. Knopf 
Any restaurant or train-station bookrack has a novel or 
two about life in some small New England town where 
adultery is the chief excitement. I'm afraid that John 
Updike's new novel, Couples, 'fill soon join them, pink-
flesh-and-black-underwear cover and all. 

But the life of Updike's novel may not be confined to 
the porno shelves. The blurb on the inside flap of the cover 
gives a foretaste of what will happen if and when the 
book is taken up by college courses in American fiction. 
It reads, "The circle of acquaintances is felt as a magic 
circle, with ritual games, religious substitutions, a priest 
(Freddy Thorne), and a scapegoat (Piet Hanema)." 

Which is a strange way to advertise a book by a novelist 
whose experiments with heavy symbolism have already 
earned him a great deal of unfavorable criticism. 

The novel is, in fact, a serious attempt to deal with the 
ennui of suburban life and its opiate, adultery. Tarbox, the 
setting for this study of drained existences, is an old 
Massachusetts Bay settlement. Close enough to Boston 
to be within commuting distance, and yet far enough out 
along the shore to be a desirable "country" residence, 
it has been taken over by young professional couples 
and their playpen development houses. 

Piet Hanema, somewhat reluctantly, is their real estate 
man and builder. At one stroke he gained both his 
wife Angela and his business from his father-in-law. The 
couple's marriage is pervaded by resentment of this 
arrangement. They use their sexual relationship to fence 
with one another. Angela claims to be frigid with her 
energetic husband, who is already unsettled by confused 
guilts over the death of his parents in a car accident. 

As always, Updike is very successful in depicting the 
arrested young American m ale. With seeming ease Piet 
searches for peace of mind among the wives of the 
couples who make up his tennis-and-cocktails set. A 
variety of similar frustrations make them willing partners. 

As an epigraph Couples has a quotation from Paul 
Tillich's Future of Religions which describes the 
increasing apathy of professional people toward the 
formal processes of society. Tillich claims that this is a 
condition unfavorable to the preservation of democracy 
but favorable to the rise of religions. Updike's characters 
are seeking fulfillment of the kind that religion offers, but 
Christianity is dead for them. Nor does society offer 
them any acceptable forms of morality. In the background 
Kennedy is shot down in Dallas and Johnson becomes 
President, but these events in no way interweave with 
the lives of Tarbox. On the night of the assassination the 
couples decide that it is better to suffer together than 
alone, and their commiseration leads to just another party. 

Similarly, local politics are merely a diversion for the 
couples. When they become involved, it is because a cause 
happens to be fashionable. Their indifference and 
cynicism lead them to ignore public issues. 

But they prove to have no alternative source of 
strength in their personal worlds. Personal relationships 
provide no workable set of values. What love there is 
between these people is brittle and sour, so that each affair 
declines from the moment of its consummation. The 
attraction is the adventure, the assertion of freedom and 
the sense of plundering that each infidelity entails. But 
once the desire for these is satisfied, and it is very soon, 
the affairs degenerate into routines ruffled by petty 
resentment and conflicting demands. Experiment adds 
nothing: this is sex without conviction. 

The mutual absorption of the couples is part of their 
conspiracy to maintain a fiction of youth. While their 
children explore the darkness of the woods, caught up in 
fierce antagonisms and profound anxieties, their 
fathers play touch football and basketball. At a party 
the adults make a cumbersome and pathetic attempt to 
Twist. The scenes of their "making out" belong to the 
world of Holden Caulfield. 

Updike's writing throughout is as meticulously finished 
and self-conscious as ever. But whether by accident or 
design, it serves a fine purpose here. The adjectivally 
over-abundant descriptions are not erotic. They cover 
the love-making with a veneer of false lyricism, an 
intellectuality which discloses its hollowness. They render 
the barren tedium of a way of living that should be 
wished on nobody. 

Tony Miles


**Title: Monkey on a String**
**Author: Joseph Viertel**

456 Pages, Trident Press 



**Title: Monkey on a String**
**Author: Charles Johnson**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
13 I The New Journal I Aprill4, 1968 
Monkey on a String 
The implications of a white man writing a novel about a 
black man have been argued back and forth in the past 
literary year in a dizzying sort of intellectual table-tennis. 
The problem of resolving William Styron's responsibilities 
as either pure artist or as socio-political speaker in a 
lime of racial turmoil is made more difficult by Styron's 
pretensions of writing the "confessions" of a slave in 1830. 
In Monkey on a String, Joseph Viertel undertakes 
what seems to be the same impossible task of white 
writing about black, and yet skillfully avoids the 
obviousness of Styron's mistake. Viertel's protagonist, 
Marcus Garvey Holmes, is a Northern black man 
who has "made it," i.e., has accepted the role of white 
man's Negro in contemporary American society. The 
novel is basically the chronicle of his growth from "black 
brat" in a Connecticut slum to ambassador to a newly 
emerging African nation. Against a well-documented, 
realistic background of ambassadorial politics, State 
Department society, and Crossroads Africa programs, 
Viertel guides his hero into a convincing world of white is 
right. "I'm a Negro, yet I have done anything a white 
mao can do." 

By virtue of the unique background that Viertel creates 
for Holmes and the tightly constructed plot of ex-
tenuating circumstances and tantalizing opportunities 
alered him, Viertel evokes both sympathy .for Holmes 
and a ready-made rationalization for his actions. The 
author develops Holmes' unique character circum-
llantially: his father's occupation and his mother's very 
liaht skin color signal his embrace of the Tom role within 
tbe traditional framework of a hostile white society. 
Viertel deftly defines his hero by his actions in the white 
perspective of the author, a society rife with hypocrisy, 
fear and guilt. For the most part, Viertel retains his 
artistic integrity in studying Holmes, for up until the 
last pages Holmes is very much a white man whose 
actions are not only predictable but inevitable. 

Beyond the complex interplay of events and circum-
stances which form the plot, Viertel feels compelled to 
give some psychological motivation to his hero. In doing 
this, the author exhibits his delicacy and dramatic 
understatement to their greatest effect and almost n1an-
ages to free himself from the perceptual-and 
experiential-limitations of a white man. Yet at bottom 
Viertel seems to be begging the question. He develops 
the character of Holmes as a man so singly motivated 
by virtue of his confidence in the white system that he 
represses adult analysis of his motivations. Any ob-
jective alternative to Holmes' actions are voiced by stock 
characters divorced from his internal crisis, such as his 
father, the proud Baptist minister, his sister, the Afro-
intellectual, and Proby, the Negro militant. As a black 
I felt the strongest identification with Proby, even though 
Viertel marks him with the stigma of being communist, 
army defector, and militant African nationalist. It is 
only Proby, however, who pushes Holmes to the limits of 
his role as white man's Negro. 

Ultimately, Viertel discloses that Holmes' psycho-
logical motivations are rooted in infant psychosexual 
preoccupations and childhood experiences. He master-
fully accumulates the evidence of Holmes' desire to be 
recognized and possessed by a white woman. His mother 
was a beautiful mulatto who was often mistaken for a 
white; his sister, also light-skinned, was consistently 
favored as a child; and his first childhood playmate, 
Polly, was white. Holmes' obsessive desire for a white 
woman, a symbol for which he is willing to sacrifice 
everything~ven personal success-is ironically fulfilled 
by his disastrous marriage to a neurotic white girl, Robbi. 
In the development of Holmes' relationship with 
Robbi, Viertel demonstrates tremendous powers of narra-
tive and dramatic suspense; yet the author unfortunately 
succumbs to the traditional myth of white woman as 
goddess. Holmes' disgusting, fawning Uncle Remus voice 
unconsciously establishes his position and identity with 
respect to Robbi. The sexual frustrations of their marriage 
place him at the mercy of her neuroses, and their travels 
through Africa offer experiences that corroborate the 
myth of the cold, aloof white woman secretly wor-
shipped by black men. 

This myth establishes motivations for Holmes' actions 
which in themselves reveal Viertel's second misconcep-
tion. In his struggle for success as a West Point cadet, 
as a career army officer and finally as an ambassador, 
Holmes is made to endure hardships imposed by the 
hostile or indifferent white society. Viertel implicitly 
suggests that his hero is a better man for having shaken his 
burden. The author offers a defense of Tomism in saying, 
Endure the sick white world and transcend. 

In his startling, moving conclusion Viertel fuses his 
manipulation of events and his psychological ground-
work to have Holmes suddenly and violently reject not 
only the white structure of which he is a part but all 
outward social involvement. The reader's personal 
judgment of whether Holmes ultimately succeeds or 
fails does not detract from the power and skill of 
Viertel's chronicle. As for Viertel's success, it is qualified 
by his limitations as a white author operating in a 
specific cultural background. Perhaps he is just as trapped 
as Marcus Garvey Holmes. 


**Title: Yale History Department's New Major**
**Author:  (No Author Listed)**
**Page number(s): 14**

continued from page 7 
between Intensive and Standard Majors 
would now be irrelevant. In addition, the 
department decided to make no stipula-
tions as to the specific subject matter 
of courses offered in fulfillment of the 
required twelve terms of advanced courses 
in history. The old requirement of four 
terms in each of two out of eight fields 
had hampered students' access to the 
variety that the department could offer; 
Yale College itself had recognized the 
justice of students' distaste for specific 
requirements when it had instituted the 
new guideline system, counseling the 
student "to design his own program for 
himself"; and the emphasis that the 
seminars and the historical essay place 
on individual exertion and accomplish-
ment does not comport either theoretically 
or practically with such restrictions. The 
department therefore agreed to advise each 
student to construct a program of study 
that included both reasonable diversity 
and a field of concentration defined by 
himself in consultation with his adviser. 
This program has the advantages of 
rigor and simplicity, and it has already 
been the object of inquiries from other 
universities and other Yale departments. 
But it should be clear by now that the new 
major is grounded in the local history 
of a particular department with its own 
special goals and problems and that it 
ought to be regarded with extreme caution 
as a model for general curricular reform. 
The program goes into effect with the 
Class of 1970, and there are some stresses 
ahead. It is inevitable in a program so 
highly individualized that some students 
will experience individual disappoint-
ments, either in not being admitted to their 
first, or perhaps even to their second, 
choices of seminars or in not being as-
signed to the essay director they might 
especially want. It is inevitable also that 
some students will not take seriously the 
department's warnings about the strin-
gency of the standards to be enforced with 
respect to the historical essay, so that one 
can anticipate a larger number of degrees 
than usual awarded in November, rather 
than June, 1970. In short, though the 
News was gracious in its praise, it may 
have been premature, for there are bound 
to be imperfections in any administrative 
contrivance. It is obvious that for this new 
program to fulfill the News' expectations 
of it, what is needed is good will and hard 
work on all sides, not least from the 
students. 


**Title: Letters to the Editors**
**Author: Steven R. Weisman**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

Letters 
To the Editors: 
Not many film critics have had the guts 
to proclaim Bikini Beach an important 
cinematic event, but I think your Mopsy 
Strange Kennedy has done a disservice to 
her profession in her otherwise com-
mendable review by writing off this rich 
and vital low mimetic comedy as mere 
unconventional tragedy. 

Bikini Beach, Part One of the Annette 
Funicello trilogy presented by the Yale 
Record, is filled with the great forces that 
qualify it, I believe, as one of the denser 
works to come out of Hollywood and, even 
more important. as worthy of the critic's 
careful examination. 

Northrop Frye, the distinguished 
literary scholar, has stated in his Anatomy 
of Criticism that "in contemporary 
movies the triumph of youth is sore-
lentless that the moviemakers find some 
difficulty in getting anyone over the age of 
seventeen into their audiences." 

Alas, what Mr. Frye tells us is often 
true, and thus many of America's best 
artistic movies have escaped the mean-
ingful examination of scholars, who are 
almost always in their twenties at least! 
1t is easy to say, for instance, that Bikini 
Beach represents an archetypal triumph of 
youth, but such a precept tends to exclude 
the film's other major victory. I am 
referring, of course, to the victory of 
the California-Surfer mode of rock-and-
roll over the perverted and effete Liver-
pudlian mode, a triumph brilliantly and 
subtly executed. 

First, though, let us examine the ques-
tion of the mythic world of youth, 
established at the film's outset by the 
statement of Frankie (Avalon), cited by 
Mrs. Kennedy, that "all forever is right 
now." 

. 
Tomorrow, he confidently declares 
later, is only "the day after today," and 
thus the film defines immediately the 
world occupied by Annette, Frankie and 
their friends. Surely the contemporary 
distillation of the pastoral motif, tra-
ditionally the vehicle for romantic comedy, 
is to be found in the eternally sunny 
beaches of southern California. The 
radical metaphor which informs this 
world is the bikini. From the opening 
scenes of the film, which depict the boys 
and girls traveling in their large truck 
to the shores of Malibu or thereabouts, the 
mood of festive gaiety, of eternity, is 
firmly established. 

This idyllic mood is made all the more 
significant by the forces which oppose it, 
represented by Keenan Wynn, publisher of 
the Bikini Bugle and owner of the local 
old folks' home. Not surprisingly, this 
villain seeks to oust the youthful surfers 
from the beaches so that he may extend 
his old folks' home down the shoreline. We 
thus have the perfect example of con-
flicting forces, of the world of mutability 
and age encroaching on the world of 
eternal youth. 

The film's conclusion, however, is not 
merely the victory of one force over 
another. Instead, the movie is a lesson in 
inclusiveness, for the ending provides the 
coming together of youth and age in a 
scene which features both the teenagers, 
Annette and Frankie included, and the 
senior citizens themselves, all dancing 
frantically to the strains of Little Stevie 
Wonder, who can certainly be compared to 
Hymen in As You Like It, as he invites 
all members of the audience, the young 
and young at heart, to join in the 
celebration. 

At the risk of examiniilg Bikini Beach 
as a mere anthropological artifact, and in 
turn violating the principles of analytic 
criticism, it is necessary to pursue in 
a discussion of this movie what I earlier 
referred to as the conflict of forces in 
rock-and-roll "music." 

The movie was made a few years ago, 
so it is not surprising that the archenemy of 
Frankie is none other than "The Potato 
Bug," whose long hair and decidedly 
British accent do nothing but suggest the 
Beatles. The Potato Bug is also a rival for 
Annette's affections, such as they are. 
His singing (filled with the flavor of the 
Early Beatles, with its "ooooooohh, 
yeh, yeh" quality) entices all the female 
creatures of the Bikini World. 

Frankie, of course, ultimately triumphs 
and drives the Potato Bug back to the 
shores of England. But here lies the great 
irony behind Bikini Beach, for viewers 
know that the ethos of Surfer-California 


--- Page 15 ---

15.1 The New Journal I Apri114, 1968 
style rock-and-roll, which finds its ob-
jective correlative in Frankie Avalon, was 
doomed to fail, despite the powerful 
statement of films like this one. 

The position of this movie, as an 
assertion of one style of life, with its comic 
and rhythmic modes, is poetically beau-
tiful and convincing, but historically 
inaccurate and misguided. This short-
coming does not detract from-in fact it 
adds to--Bikini Beach's vitality and luster 
because we are reminded, outside the 
medium itself, that nothing in this world 
is truly imperishable. This movie, with 
Frankie and Annette representing the 
ultimate paradoxical personae, is certainly 
one of the great cinematic triumphs of 
our time. 

Steven R. Weisman 
Yale College 


**Title: Yale Three Sisters**
**Author: Roger Girard**
**Page number(s): 15**

continued from page 2 
delicate spine comes through largely un-
damaged, and the director, Larry Arrick, 
has not inundated us with the mock 
Moscow Art Theatre gloom so common 
to Chekhov productions in this country. 
Mr. Arrick has taken the play from page 
to stage with apparent simplicity. As a 
result Chekhov is the winner, and perhaps 
that is the best thing about the Yale Three 
Sisters. For in the end, despite an uneven 
production that lacks the patina only time 
can bring to an acting company, despite 
the occasional moment that falls flat or 
the costume here or there that is out of 
place, the evening belongs to Cbekbov, 
who will always be able to make us believe 
against our intellects that although Olga, 
Masba and Irina may never get to 
Moscow, there is still hope that you and 
I will make it. 


Classifieds 
20¢per word 
Ads may be mailed or telephoned to: 
William M. Burstein 
544 Yale Station 
New Haven, Conn. 06520 
776-2551 
Monday-Thursday 7-8 p.m. 
STUDENT VOLUNTEERS urgently needed 
for Urban League telephone squad, any 
time between April 10-20. Please call 
624-4168 between 9 and 5 except Sat. and 
Sun.; by Tuesday, April 16 if possible. Ask 
for Mrs. Zeichner. 
PIANO TUNING-precise work. P. 
Neumann, 776-6421 evenings. 
RECEIVER FOR SALE. FISHER 550T. 
AM/ FM. $275. Call 562-7418. 
Students interested in havin~ a beginning 
Swedish or Norwegian course offered again 
next year, contact Barry Greenberg, 777-2464. 
Ho: If you are coming down through the 
narrows of the river Kiang, let me know 
beforehand and I will come out to meet you, 
as far as Cho-Fu-Sa. 
Lyndon


Reserve Early for 
College Weekend 
Single $11 
125 luxurious rooms 
Adjacent to famous Les Shaw's restaurant 
Complimentary continental breakfast 
Putting green 
Pools for kiddies and adults 
Member, Quality Courts 
All major credit cards accepted including 
r:= 
<u 
~h&vBn 
MOTOR. INN 
100 Pond Lily Avenue, New Ilaven, Conn., 387-6651


FOR SALE. THE CAR. 1962 Forest Green 
Porsche 1600 Convertible. Mechanically 
excellent. $1250, firm. Call James, 624-4619, 
or write 1874 Yale Station.


~ru'!?J.r!,!t~?Cin g 
Your favorite music on stereo tapes. 
Select reel to reel four crack 
tapes or eight track stereo cartridges 
for cars 
Enjoy hours of uninterrupted stereo 
music. 
Jazz, popular, rock & roll, opera, 
classical, original cast. 
All at 20 per cent off list price at 
the Co-op. 
f!£~ 5!'!{~.£~~op 
· Saturday, Thursday until 9



**AP.O-Yale blood drive**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 16**

AP.O-Yale 
blood drive 
Finish the 
job, give the pint 
you pledged. 
Donations: 
Monday, April 15 through Monday, 
April 22 at Dwight Hall 
Thanks to: 
Yale Repertory Theatre, Mory's Association, New Haven Motor Inn, 
William R. Kasack Opticians, Inc., Johnny's Pipe Centre, 
Bicycle Center 

