Publication date: 09/94
Volume 27, Issue 1

**When Cities Go Green**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 36**

I've been mistaken for a stereotypical "dumb forester": a person who would rather spend his time working in a forest cutting sawlogs, hunting, fishing, and driving a pick-up truck than working in an office. My friends describe me as "bearded and burly." I may look the part, but preconceptions can mislead. Rather than as a "timber beast," I see myself as an environmental steward, combining conservation, preservation, and restoration activities while working with human communities in their environments. Such perceptions, though, are more than a matter of self-identity; conventional wisdom's mis-definitions of what the environment is, and where it is, skew environmental priorities.

Five years ago, as a Masters student, I helped start a new program at the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies: The Urban Resources Initiative (URI). The idea for the program stemmed from a conversation between Bill Burch, Professor of Natural Resource Sociology at the School of Forestry, and the late Dr. Ralph Jones, Director of Baltimore's Department of Parks and Recreation. After listening to Burch describe Yale's extensive work in community forestry and community development overseas, Jones asked why Yale was not involved with similar work in the United States, particularly in the inner cities.

Which brings me into the picture. Burch asked me to work with the city of Baltimore to identify ways in which Yale could become involved in urban areas. Surprisingly, inner-city Baltimore revealed many of the same challenges as the rural areas in Nepal, where forestry students were then working. Trapped in deteriorating social, economic, and environmental systems, Baltimore's communities hungered for a change. And even in the midst of such hardships, opportunities were waiting to be pursued. Baltimore boasted 6,500 acres of parkland, 300,000 street trees, 80 miles of streams flowing into the Chesapeake Bay, 6,500 city-owned abandoned lots, 276 neighborhoods, and 736,000 people.

But how to combine streams and neighborhoods, parks and people? To take advantage of these resources and opportunities, I helped develop neighborhood-based gardens, community forestry projects, and job programs to revitalize neighborhoods while restoring the natural environment. I witnessed radical changes among individuals, neighborhoods, government agencies, and networks within the city. In environmental education programs, young people developed self-confidence by working together to climb 150-foot cliffs and to restore abandoned lots. An inner-city "garden-raising" mobilized a hundred volunteers to build and plant tree nurseries in a single day. Entire city agencies began to re-organize. Based on watershed boundaries, the Department of Recreation and Parks restructured itself in order to manage the city's natural resources more effectively. Non-profit organizations, public agencies, community groups, and academic institutions formed coalitions to sustain these projects. Reflecting on these experiences, I have come to realize that urban revitalization and environmental restoration are inextricably linked. Yet traditional environmentalists continue to neglect their roles in cities.

Working in Baltimore and then in New Haven through the URI program, I have discovered the potential to re-invent our cities through a new brand of environmental urbanism. Seventy-nine percent of