Publication date: April 16, 1993
Volume: 25
Issue number: 5


**MASTHEAD**
- PUBLISHER: Rosita Choy
- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Jose Manuel Tesoro
- MANAGING EDITORS: Joshua Auerbach
- BusiNEss MANAGER: Cheryl Sheinkopf
- DESIGNER: Annette Kirchner
- PRODUCTION MANAGER: Joshua Civin
- PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR: Valerie Burgher
- ASSOCIATE EDITOR: David Gerber
- ASSOCIATE EDITOR: Jay Porter
- ALUMNI DIRECTOR: Vikash Dhindhwal
- STAFF: Kate Brewster, Elisha Cooper, Regina GeLin, Jackie Goldberg, John Gorham*, John Kim*, Suzanne Kim, Sonya Joo, Erik Meers
-*Elected to Staff April 11, 1993


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- About this Issue
- Between the Vines: Hometown Brew. - Elisha Cooper
- Hooking Up. - Ellen Barry
- Afterthought: Action, for a Change. - Shana Waterman
- Carby's Uncommon Critique. - Jackie Cooperman
- Approaching the Bench. - David Gerber
- A Surprise Party. - Peter Greenberger
- A Master and his Craft. - Kate Brewster
- Breaking Ground in the Promised Land. - Jose Manuel Tesoro
- GI Blues. - Elaine Lewinnek


**Title: About this Issue**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**




**Title: Between the Vines: Hometown Brew.**
**Author: Elisha Cooper**
**Page number(s): 20**




**Title: Hooking Up.**
**Author: Ellen Barry**
**Page number(s): 29**




**Title: Afterthought: Action, for a Change.**
**Author: Shana Waterman**



**Title: Carby's Uncommon Critique.**
**Author: Jackie Cooperman**
**Page number(s): 12**

Yale professor Hazel 
Carby stretches the traditional bounds of Ivy League academia.


**Title: Approaching the Bench.**
**Author: David Gerber**
**Page number(s): 5**

The budding litigators of 
Hillhouse's mock trial team sharpen their skills on hapless opponents.


**Title: A Surprise Party.**
**Author: Peter Greenberger**
**Page number(s): 8**

Can A Connecticut Party, 
Governor Lowell Weicker's political brainchild, escape its founders shadow?


**Title: A Master and his Craft.**
**Author: Kate Brewster**
**Page number(s): 10**

New Haven boatbuilder Mike 
Vespoli quietly builds some of the finest racing shells in the world.


**Title: Breaking Ground in the Promised Land.**
**Author: Jose Manuel Tesoro**
**Page number(s): 16**

The 
University of New Haven's attempt to build a campus in the 'West Bank ignited 
a blaze of controversy in the U.S. and in the Middle East.


**Title: GI Blues.**
**Author: Elaine Lewinnek**
**Page number(s): 26**

Under the GI Bill, WWII veterans marched 
into Yale and changed it forever.



**Title: About This Issue**
**Author: [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Zvika Blum, Elqana's engineer and "city planner, looked understandably 
surprised when I showed up in his office. I had wandered into 
Elqana's municipal building looking for anyone who spoke enough 
English to tell me about the settlement. I must have been, to him, an odd 
sight: a Christian Filipino, spending spring break in Israel, who had come to 
write about a Jewish settlement on the West Bank for an American college 
magazine. 

He welcomed me with an unexpected warmth. Blum assumed that I 
had come all the way from the United States because I wanted to study at 
the university he was building. "Wait! How much time do you have?" he 
asked me. "Come, I'll take you on a tour of the town." He bundled me into 
his car and drove me around the settlement. Blum had designed much of 
Elqana himself and seemed to take pleasure in showing his visitor the fruits 
of his labor. 

Throughout his tour I tried my best to disabuse Zvika of his misconcep-
tions about my visit. He finally understood, but proudly continued to point 
out things like the town's manicured mini-park and brand-new high school, 
built with government funds. Coming down a hill, where "we could see a 
nice view," he said, of the rolling country around Elqana, and the minarets 
of an Arab town nearby, I asked him what will happen to Elqana now that 
the Labor government has said it will stop funding the settlements. "We 
won't be worse off than before," he said, and shrugged, as if to say living in 
Elqana was enough of a challenge. 


My visit to Elqana brought revelations (in a land thoroughly bound up 
with revelations). I did discover, despite UNH's decision to abandon its 
planned campus, that construction had not stopped in the settlement. 
Beyond that, I gained an insight into a concealed universe; one structured 
by different rules and suffused with political tensions and daily struggles. 
The New journal has built its reputation partly on revelations. We don't 
get scoops often, but we can and do cast old things in a new light. We strive 
to reveal new and candid perspectives on how people live their lives, and the 
issues they confront. In this magazine, Kate Brewster shows us how some of 
the world's best boats are built, as well as the man who builds them, and 
Ellen Barry speaks frankly about college trysts. As revelations often bring 
more questions than answers, we here at TNJ consider producing a maga-
zine a continual learning experience. In putting together this issue, we have 
shown how widely dispersed articles on Yale and New Haven can be, by 
wandering as far afield in time and space-as World War II or the West Bank. 
We thank the seniors and juniors who are moving on, who have caught 
us much of what we know, and whom we are proud to call our friends: 
Sarah, Kathy, Emily, Charlotte, Tina, Jen, Katie, Erik, and Kate. We thank 
as well our Board of Directors, without whose continued support, friend-
ship, and concern for the magazine we could not do what we do well. 
We also invite all interested in learning with us the business of revelation 
to come and plan our next issue. Would-be writers, businesspeople, graphic 
designers, artists, and photographers should write this down on their calen-
dars: "TNJ meeting-Monday, April 19, at 7:45 P.M. in the Berkeley 
Seminar Room." We hope to see you there. 
-]MT 
The New Journal regrets the passing of john Hersey, a longtime friend of the magazine. 
APRIL 16, 1993 


**Title: Approaching the Bench**
**Author: David Gerber**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Watching the Hillhouse High School mock trial 
team in action is like watching those feisty, artic-
ulate lawyers on L.A. Law. Following their 
Hollywood counterparts, these teenage litigators intimidate 
when eros-examining, object dramatically (and far more 
often than any real-life attorney), and even mutter under 
their breaths discontentedly when they disagree with a 
judge's ruling. Such courtroom procedure seems to come 
naturally to them, thanks to weeks of practice, which pre-
pare them for almost any situation. If the unexpected does 
come their way, they take it in stride, relying on the 
melange of spontaneity and poise that has propelled this 
inner-city New Haven high school team to three state 
championships. 

Pitted against Hillhouse's razor-sharp attorneys and 
slithery witnesses, most opponents quickly become victims, 
a process that can turn ugly as Hillhouse recognizes and 
toys with their weaknesses. Last year, 
Leigh Roberts, then a sophomore at 
Hillhouse, turned the tables of tradi-
tional trial control on a hapless oppos-
ing attorney as she, playing a witness, 
forced him to waste five of his seven 
allotted cross-examination minutes 
reviewing the definition of "drink" in 
her affidavit. A Hillhouse attorney 
once objected to 15 consecutive ques-
tions, and when the judge sustained 
each and every time, opposing counsel 
found itself without an argument. 
"The team will learn the law and 
courtroom procedure. But the object 
is to win," Coach Allen Grenet says of 
the competition that combines debat-
ing skills with a knowledge of the law. 
"Everybody is hungry for blood," 
Leigh says. 

Tonight, March 16, is no exception, as Hillhouse 
expects to tear apart a fledgling team from Platt High 
School in its second match of the regional tournament. 
Platt cannot hide its rookie status, misunderstanding 
judges' instructions and neglecting basics like approaching 
the bench when introducing evidence. Still, Hillhouse has 
trouble sealing a victory, for Platt's inexperience bogs down 
the trial. Rather than capitalizing on its superiority, 
Hillhouse seems to sink to its opponent's level. Lawyers 
APIUL 16, 1993 
miss opportunities to object; witnesses struggle with the 
inappropriate questions that arise as a consequence. 
Somewhere in the gallery, one parent whispers to another: 
"You should have seen them last year." 

During the 1992 season, Hillhouse reached the top, 
and 
then kept climbing. 
After winning 
Connecticut's tournament, the team went on to 
beat the New York state champions in the bi-state competi-
tion, which effectively marked it the best of the two states' 
673 participating schools. Hillhouse also took the gold in 
1986 and 1987, but last year was the first time it did so as a 
magnet team. Since 1991, Hillhouse has drawn participants 
from a number of schools around New Haven, and some 
other teams cite this as an unfair advantage. This year the 
squad of seven students breaks down into three from 
Hillhouse, two from Wilbur Cross, and two from Amity. 

By this time last year, the team had been rehearsing 
entire trials for weeks. This season, however, they barely 
reached that polished stage. Because the team comprises 
only veteran competitors, Coach Grenet relaxed his notori-
ous five-day-a-week practice regimen, a decision he has 
come to question now that he has seen his team srruggle in 
the tournament. In January, teams received a case dealing 
with a hypothetical mugging. Competition organizers pro-
vided maps, footprints, medical records, and affidavits. 
Over the next two months, Hillhouse's three lawyers used 
TH.£ NEW JouRNAL 5 

the materials to formulate questions, 
while the four witnesses gradually 
assumed their assigned characters. In 
competition-a simulated trial that 
lasts about two hours-
the seven stu-
dents represent either prosecution or 
defense, depending on the flip of a 
coin. Three judges, usually local prac-
ticing attorneys, officiate the trial and 
award the points that determine the 
victor. 

The team's abnormally low level of 
preparation may come from disap-
pointment with the assigned case; 
compared to previous scenarios, like 
last year's battle over AIDS patients 
occupying a home in a resistant neigh-
borhood, the theft of $35 does not 
offer much intellectual fodder. "Other 
years we examined our own views as 
we practiced," says Cross senior Sasha 
Sanberg-Champion. "This year it 
seems like just a few facts on paper. 
There's not much there." 

It is this reaching beyond given 
information that has set Hillhouse 
apart from other teams in the past. By 
going to the experts, they acquaint 
themselves with an issue more thor-
oughly than competitors, and often 
more thoroughly than the judges. This 
year they spoke to detectives of the 
New Haven police, who explained fin-
gerprinting, footprint analysis, and 
crime-scene procedure. For the AIDS 
case, they went to epidemiologists. 
"Our expert witness knew so much 
about the epidemic that she could teach 
doctors," asserts Coach Grenet. 

Knowledge of the law comes counesy of 
dedicated attorneys who volunteer 
with the team several times a week, 
and while all schools officially have 
such advisers, most teams meet with 
theirs only a few times immediately 
before the tournament. This discrep-
ancy manifests itself clearly during 
competition, when Hillhouse may 
make a pre-trial motion or take excep-
tion, baffling opponents who still 
grapple with terms like Miranda 
rights. 

Leaving most· legal matters to 
advisers Beth Merkin and Karen 
Goodrow, both New Haven public 
attorneys, Coach Grenet considers 
himself a theatrical director. Stand up 
straight, no "urns," think before you 
speak, he insists. A Hillhouse history 
teacher forever clad in a blue "1992 
Mock Trial State Champions" jacket, 
Coach Grenet gnaws nervously on a 
stopwatch during practice, white-
knuckled hands mercilessly gripping 
his desk. When practices give way to 
compeuuon, 
his 
apprehension 
explodes into outright panic. Years ago 
the team complained that his neurotic 
behavior harmed their performance, so 
now he exits the courtroom after 
opening statements. Every half hour or 
so he returns for an update, temples 
moist with perspiration, eyes bulging 
with worry, palm meeting forehead to 
punctuate his anguish. 

Two hours into the trial against 
Platt, Coach Grenet comes 
into the gallery for the fourth 
time and introduces a new concern: 
points. To advance to the quarterfi-
nals, Hillhouse must win both of two 
regional matches, and since more than 
one team may meet this requirement, 
Hillhouse must also tally the most 
total points. At the moment, however, 
Hillhouse does not even know for sure 
if it won last week against Hamden-
results of both regional trials are post-
. ed after the second to discourage los-
ing teams from throwing in the towel 
after the first. Although team members 
and observers feel fairly confident that 
Hillhouse won the first match, noth-
ing calms the coach. Grenet has been 
circulating through other courtrooms, 
and he has concluded that some other 
teams have been racking up points at a 
dangerous pace. 

But so has Hillhouse. For the last 
two witnesses there has been no ques-
tion of who controls the action in this 
crowded room in the New Haven 
Superior Courthouse. Under relentless 
interrogation by Hillhouse's Crissa 
Klein, a senior at Amity, a Platt wit-
ness contradicts his own testimony. 
While the judges continue to see that 
ostensibly sweet smile on Crissa's face, 
the audience can see her clenching her 
hands behind her back, evidence of 
her nor-so-sweet intent to exploit the 
error. The difference in the two 
schools' experience takes on farcical 
proportions during closing statements. 
Representing Hillhouse, Sasha stands 
assuredly in front of the bench while 
captivating onlookers with lingo and 



**Title: A Surprise Party**
**Author: Peter Greenberger**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
During Lowell P. Weicker, Jr.'s (TO '53) losing 1988 campaign for a fourth term in the U.S. Senate, his Democratic opponents labeled him a "sleeping bear." His lengthy tenure in Washington, they insinuated, had made him comfortable with the status quo. Little did they expect that cwo years later, Weicker would roar back to life as the head of a party he founded himself, A Connecticut Party (ACP), co become Connecticut's first third-party governor in nearly 150 years. ACP's success constituted a challenge to traditional two-party politics. 

Yet both Republicans and Democrats dismiss ACP, calling the organization more a personality cult centered around Weicker than a viable political force. Weicker's new political coalition suited the anti-two-party feeling engulfing the country. Invigorated by Weicker's engaging personality, ACP built its platforms out of planks from both parties. The party stresses the Republican view that business is the key to Connecticut's growth yet also emphasizes traditionally Democratic concerns such as education and civil rights. ACP's Statement of Principles dedicates the party to "overcoming political entrenchmept" and providing "the leadership to guide Connecticut."

Critics doubt ACP's lofty principles, considering the parry the product of Weicker's political scrambling. A former Republican, Weicker left his posicion as law professor at George Washington University to jump into Connecticut's gubernatorial contest after both Democrat and Republican slots had been filled. Even if he had announced his candidacy earlier, his pro-choice stance and refusal to support Robert Bork's Supreme Court nomination would have made it difficult to convince his former party to welcome him back.

Ed Marcus, the Democratic state parry chair, called Weicker's decision to found ACP "a shrewd political maneuver." But Republicans see Weicker's move as a direct attack on his former party. Republican state party chair Dick Foley believes the ACP was "one man's vengeance" against the party that criticized his performance in the U.S. Senate.

According to Weicker, however, Republican discontent had nothing to do with his decision. Traditional two-party gridlock led him to choose a third way. Upon announcing his entry into the race early in March 1990, Weicker exclaimed, "How about deregulating politics? Let's have some competition." An independent party, Weicker said, would be able to "handle the tough problems" that the two other parties neglect.


Weicker's party, ACP, according to party statistics, has grown surprisingly large in just two years. Party supporters today range from converted Republicans to disenchanted Democrats, a coalition that exists largely because of Weicker and his no-nonsense approach to thj economy. The extensive grass roots organization, which claims to bring honesty and issues back to politics, has effected some change in Connecticut. ACP fielded a number of its own candidates in the 1992 elections and endorsed many candidates from the two major parties. Not one of the ACP candidates won, although many received up to 25 percent of the vote.

Regardless of the disappointing election returns, ACP believes it exerted influence on state politics. The party claims that several of the cross candidates, including Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT), owe their victories to the support of ACP. ACP has already begun preparing for the 1994 elections.

Connecticut Democrats and Republicans are not nearly as optimistic about the party's future. One anonymous Democratic leader said, "There are 738,000 Democrats in Connecticut, 504,000 Republicans and only 1,770 official members of the ACP. So what do you think?"

Republican Foley agrees that ACP support is weak, particularly if Weicker decides to retire from politics. "It is a personality cult, not a political party," Foley said. Weicker's presence pervades ACP, even though he holds no formal position within the organization. Party newsletters often contain a personal "Message from the Governor," and pamphlets attracting new members include a letter from Weicker. In addition, Foley contends that Weicker's 1990 winning campaign drew heavily from the political disillusionment in the country at the time. "It was chic to be independent," he said. ACP's lone victory with Weicker supports the bipartisan criticism. Though ACP refutes the assumption that Weicker alone holds the party together, it will take national and state election victories to convince critics.

ACP supporters point to the party's rapid growth and the accompanying national attention as proof positive that the party is here to stay, even though these achievements rest largely on Weicker's economic successes. When Weicker ran for governor, Connecticut had nearly a $1 billion deficit. Once in office, he instituted an income tax, the first in the state's history, which met a barrage of criticism. Weicker's popularity plummeted to around 20 percent.

Tough medicine, however, had quick results. At the end of Weicker's first year in office, Connecticut's deficit had turned into a roughly $30 million surplus. Weicker's approval rating jumped to nearly 50 percent by the end of 1992. Connecticut's turnaround appears to support Weicker's argument that the two traditional parties are more skilled at battling each other than in solving the nation's problems.

Ross Perot's emergence in the last presidential election underscores the possible impact a third party can have on the national level. Weicker himself has been involved in efforts to establish a national third party. This is the only option, he believes, "that's going to straighten out both politics and government." Weicker, however, has dismissed any rumors of running for president under a national third party-an idea that resulted from his prominent involvement in the new movement. Downplaying any national aspirations, ACP chair Diane Blick surmised, "We are, after all, the Connecticut Party."

How long A Connecticut Party can last without its popular creator remains in question. Weicker may not seek another term as governor in 1994. If he chooses not to run, or is defeated in a reelection effort, ACP may disintegrate as quickly as it emerged. IIIJ

Peter Greenberger is a sophomore in Pierson College.


**Title:  Untitled (Page 7 Article)**
**Author: David Gerber**
**Page number(s): 7**

gestures a trial lawyer would be proud of. Platt's attorney teeters back and forth uncertainly, and when he finally finds the words he's been groping for, they emerge in a defeated mumble. After a two-minute recess, the judges critique the teams' performances, but do not announce the winner. O ne of them drags on about subtlety and word variety; another suggests more respect for the bench. From out in the hallway comes a cheer. "The scores are out," says a concerned Hillhouse parent, then walks out to check for herself. Still the judges ramble on. Now they're saying something about keeping questions short. The parent comes back in the courtroom, amused dejection in her eyes. "We won tonight all right," she whispers to some eager parents and teachers. "But we lost last week." Disbelief becomes audible. "We lost last week- to Hamden? But we did so well, better than they did." By this time the Hillhouse students, still bound before the longwinded judges, sense that their season has come to an early end. For the defending state champions, first-round defeat equals disgrace. Another parent comes back to her seat. "Mr. G. is upset." 

Two weeks later, the loss still pains the coach. "It's my fault," says Coach Grenet. "I should have pushed them more. I assumed they would get it together, and they never did." He has already turned to next season, which will require significant regrouping. Four of this year's competitors graduate in June, and one of the remaining three has expressed doubt about returning to the team. As Coach Grenet rises from his desk, he glances at the three state championship plaques on his office wall. It may be some time before he adds a fourth. IIIJ David Gerber, a sophomore in Trumbull College, is associate editor of TNJ. APRIL 16, 1993



**Title: A Master and his Craft.**
**Author: Kate Brewster**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Tucked behind Marcus Dairy 
on New Haven's Clinton 
Avenue is Vespoli USA, a mod-
est plant which happens to be the 
largest producer of crew racing shells 
in North America. Inside his factory's 
hangar-like space, former Olympic 
rower Mike Vespoli looms, disarming-
ly tall and broad-shouldered, over one 
of his slender 60-foot-long boats. A 
finger-knock against the hull makes a 
satisfyingly hollow thump. Built, after 
all, for people Vespoli's size, the boat 
looks impossibly delicate. "In the first 
crew race between Cambridge and 
Oxford in 1829, they used wooden 
boats that weighed more than 950 
pounds," says Vespoli. This boat weighs 
less than 200, and co bring ic up to the 
recently imposed minimum of 205 
pounds for men's eighc-oar shells, 
Vespoli will have co add weights. 
"This is a piece of the interior," he 
says, picking up a rectangle of whac 
looks like glazed cardboard, less than 
half-an-inch chick. "Try flexing it." 

The material feels as light as 
Styrofoam, but ic refuses to bend even 
a millimeter. "It's a resin-impregnated 
carbon composite," Vespoli explains 
-
fiberglass is now as outdated as 
wood. Before being made into boats, 
the sheets of composite look like 
rolled-up wallpaper and are stored in 
freezers. Workers peel off che backing 
and sandwich a si.ngle layer of stretchy 
nylon honeycomb between the sheets 
of composite. They arrange hand-cut 
pieces of the layered material in che . 
boat's mold. A huge box-like oven, set 
at 250 degrees Fahrenheit, is lowered 
over the mold, and the boac bakes for 
90 minutes. Baking releases che resin 
co flow between the cells of the honey-
comb, forming a material lighter than 
fiberglass but four times as stiff. 

"This is the same technology 
Sikorsky Aircraft uses," says Vespoli, as 
the oven rises slowly to hang above the 
outline of a freshly baked boat. 

Innovations borrowed from the 
aerospace industry have revolutionized 
boac designs, as well as materials. A 
company in San Diego works with 
Vespoli on new hull designs, using 
computer programs that predict the 
motion of any three-dimensional shape 
through water. But so much manual 
labor goes into boac building, Vespoli 
explains, chat the process still manages 
to fuse Space Age engineering with 
craftsmanship and customization. 

"You won't see this kind of care 
and finish even on a fine car any-
more," says Vespoli, scanding in the 
plane's last room where a worker is buff-
ing a boat. The worker passes a whirling 
wheel of soft material over the hull, 
releasing a sharp smell of resin and 
paint. The boats' surfaces shine. The 
paint-red for Radcliffe, purple for 
Williams-was carefully weighed before 
it was sprayed on. Another boat already 
has shoes installed in the sizes a coach 
specified for his crew. The whole pack-
age will carry a price tag of $16,000. 

Before he started his company in 
1980, Vespoli spent three years 
coaching Yale's freshman crew. 
He still speaks with the alert, con-
trolled energy of a coach, as enthusias-
tic about the sport of running a busi-
ness as he is intense about the details 
of rowing history. But he recalls, "I 
wasn't going to sit around waiting for a 
head coaching job." In the late 1970s, 
he had been importing boats as a 
licensee for a British company. 
"Building my own seemed like a logi-
cal progression," he says. Vespoli USA 
now turns out 300 boats a year and is 
the largest producer of eight-oar shells 
in the world. It built 90 percent ofYale's 
boats and 5 of the 13 that rhe U.S. 
Olympic team used in Spain last sum-
mer. Brightly colored banners from 
international rowing events hang in 
Vespoli's office, and a framed U.S. 
parent for the hull design of one of his 
eight-oar shells sits on a table. 

It doesn't seem to bother Vespoli 
that the plant on Clinton Avenue 
remains a mystery to the average New 
Haven cab driver. "It's easy to be a big 
fish in a small pond," he says with a 
laugh. Immersed in the pond since he 
started rowing crew at Georgetown, 
Vespoli speaks of the rowing world 
with amused affection. Rowers, for 
instance, are not to be confused with 
kayakers and canoers. "Rowers are 
more picky, for some reason," he says. 
Willie Black, Yale's current novice 
women's crew coach, speaks of the 
neverending debate among rowers 
over Vespoli shells versus "the yellow 
boats" 
made by Empacher of 
Germany, Vespoli's major internation-
al competitor. Black has no complaints 
about Yale's support of local talent. 
"Shoot," he says. "If Vespoli shells are 
good enough for the U.S. Olympic 
ream, they're good enough for us." 

Vespoli says his own perspective 
as a former rower and coach both 
helps and hurts his work. "Unless 
you're an outstanding engineer o r 
inventor you can't really revolution-
ize," he says. "But I know where 
coaches are coming from." Although 
he regrets that he himself no longer 
has time to coach, Vespoli likes the 
way his job keeps him in touch with 
rowing. He travels extensively, nego-
tiating contracts with institutions 
and governments in Asia, Europe, 
and Latin America. "We want to 
build everybody's boar," he says with 
pride. 


**Title: Carby's Uncommon Critique**
**Author: Jackie Cooperman**
**Page number(s): 12**

Since arriving at Yale in 1989, Hazel Carby has invigo-
rated discussion about race, gender, and politics 
throughout the university. Carby, a professor tenured 
in three departments-
English, American studies, and 
Afro-American studies-
and the director of graduate stud-
ies (DGS) in Afro-American studies, argues that the inclu-
sion of people of color on university syllabi represents only a 
small step towards a tolerant and equitable society. 

Colleagues and students praise Carby's ability to pre-
sent complicated issues in the classroom without imposing 
her own opinions. Her even-handed approach is especially 
noteworthy because understatement is not her style. Carby's 
thoughtfully paced speech is ftlled with a disciplined urgen-
cy. "She says very antagonistic things that are true and that. 
other professors shy away from," said Lizzie Skurnik (PC 
'95), an Afro-American studies major. "I really admire her 
for that." 

One of only two tenured black women at Yale, Carby 
often speaks of hypocrisy and racism both in the academic 
community and in American society. "While the attention 
of faculty and administrators has been directed toward 
increasing the representation of different social groups in 
the curriculum or the college handbook," she wrote last year 
in an essay entitled "The Multicultural Wars," "few alliances 
have been forged with substantial forces across this society 
chat will significantly halt and reverse the declining num-
bers of black, working-class, and poor people among uni-
versity student bodies or faculty." 

Until these alliances are forged, Carby suggests, white 
students will read about black culture without ever encoun-
tering it in a real-life setting. "I don't want students to feel 
that they know black people just from reading books by 
them," she said. The inclusion of texts written by people of 
color, Carby argues, often serves as an inadequate substitute 
for a broader program of societal integration. 

Last semester, Carby explored issues of race in Black 
Women and Their Forms of Culture, a lecture class she 
taught for the English department. "These questions may 
be contentious, they may be provocative, but I think they're 
extremely important," she said. "Classrooms shoul~n't be 
cushioned. It's important to ask why the discomfort arises 
when we t.alk about race." 

Carby's mix of impassioned confrontation and dis-
tanced scholarship, of literature, ftlm, and music, of 
political activism and what one colleague called 
"statespersonship," has drawn the attention not only of fac-
ulty and students at Yale but also of the national media. Last 
semester, Carby was invited to speak on the Oprah Winfrry 
Show about the ftlm Malcolm X and the mainstream mar-
keting of black culture. 

Winfrey asked Carby whether the ftlm would impact 
national race relations. "White people will see Malcolm X, 
but they do not want black kids from the inner city sitting 
next to their kids in the white suburbs," Carby responded. 
"It speaks to the deep hypocrisy of our society, and it's a 
substitute for the political action needed to desegregate our 
society." Taken aback by Carby's frank response to her ques-
tions, Winfrey, one of the ftlm's major ftnancial backers, 
quickly returned to questioning Spike Lee, the film's direc-
tor, before going to a commercial break. "Oprah only let 
professor Carby talk for a couple of seconds," said Liz 
Chang (BR '95), a Carby student who watched the pro-
gram. "She cut her off as soon as she got political." 

Carby dismisses the publicity she and other prominent 
black scholars receive from the American media. "Instead of 
the issue being the breadth of African-American intellectu-
als, one scholar is taken and given a lot of attention," Carby 
said. "In particular, the very existence of black male profes-
sors seems to fascinate the New York Times," she noted in 
"Multicultural Wars." Carby wrote that an Aprill990 front 
page article about Harvard scholar Henry Louis Gates, Jr., 
"adopts such an incisive tone of ridicule that one wonders if 
the newspaper's editorial staff consciously decided to create 
a cartoon of black studies as a ship of fools." 

If Carby's determined political speech remains too chal-
lenging for the mainstream forum of an afternoon talk show 
or daily newspaper, it finds myriad followers at Yale. 
"Bringing Hazel Carby here was a big step forward that I 
hope represents a substantial commitment to Afro-
American studies from the university," said Afro-American 
studies and history professor Melvin Ely. 

A self-proclaimed Marxian scholar, Carby said her 
research follows a tradition of black, socialist analysis. "I use



**Title: Hazel Carby: A Cult Following**
**Author: Jackie Cooperman**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Hazel Carby has earned a ''cult foLLowing "at Yale. 
MRJL 16, 1993 
Marxist theories as a historical framework," she said. "They 
provide a tradition of a more equitable vision of society." 

When relations between graduate students and the admin-
istration became strained last year, Carby proved herself 
willing to put these academic beliefs into practice. She and 
11 ocher faculty members signed a petition co Yale's admin-
istration, asking the university co negotiate with striking 
graduate students. "Faculty who took the lead on speaking 
out were really courageous," said Gordon Lafer (GRD '94), 
a Graduate Employees Student Organization (GESO) lead-
er. "Hazel Carby earned a lot of graduate students' admira-
tion for her bravery." 

Carby believes that all students have a basic ~ight to 
representation. Born co a Jamaican father and a Welsh 
mother and raised in England, she spent her graduate stu-
dent years there, earning her doctoral degree in cultural 
studies at the Universiry of Birmingham. "I come from a 
country where students do have unions. In Europe, it is not 
assumed that a collective voice is antagonistic," she said. 

Carby is critical of the administration's attempts to preserve 
unequal power relations between faculty and graduate stu-
dents. "I am not interested in defending che university's sys-
tem of patronage. If the administration regards che students 
with terror," she said, "I am appalled by their terror." 

Carby has also earned praise for her work with Gerald 
Jaynes, the chairman of Afro-American studies, and other 
colleagues in the department to create a Ph.D program in 
Afro-American studies. Carby said that while race is under-
theorized in many ocher areas of the university, the Ph.D 
program will require core classes on the subject. The doc-
coral degree will first be offered in 1994. 

"Hazel's efforts in graduate studies will attract better 
students and faculty to Yale," said Cynthia Russett, one of 
Carby's colleagues in the history department. "Hazel is 
active as a kind of university statesperson. She is a remark-
ably wide-ranging scholar and a real asset co the university." 

Cara Hood (GRAD '96), a teaching assistant for Carby last 
term, commended Carby for expanding the focus of the 
graduate program. "Graduate school is a place starving for 
policies," said Hood. "And Hazel's classes are some of the 
few places where you'll get that." 

Students also benefic from Carby's juxtaposition of 
film, music, and literature. "She brings a special inter-disci-
plinary knowledge to her work," said Robert Stepco, a pro-
fessor tenured in the same departments as Carby and the first 
DGS for African and Afro-American studies. Stepco empha-
sized the importance of Carby's research 
on 19th century black women writers, 
early 20th century women blues singers, 
and the Chicago Renaissance in the 
1920s. 

Carby's interest in film led her to 
create the Black Film Collection from 
resources in the Film Studies Center. 
The collection received national atten-
tion following a conference Carby 
organized last year. In January, she tes-
tifie'd at a U.S. Senate hearing about 
the importance of access to and preser-
vation of film archives in the Library 
of Congress. 

In high demand around the coun-
try, Carby nonetheless focuses the bulk 
of her attention on her responsibilities 
as a scholar and a teacher. Her classroom 
style emphasizes candid interaction 
between students and instructors. "I 
talked with theTAs about trying to pro-
vide a secure atmosphere for people to 
say what they felt," Carby said about the 
sections for Black Women and Their 
.Forms of Culture. She said that stu-
dents' varied and emotional reactions to 
her class reflected the tensions in 
American society. "I want to give stu-
dents a sense that the issues in the class 
are not separate from real life," she said. 

In her lectures, Carby provided 
the historical context for books that 
would later serve as a framework for 
discussing contemporary issues of race. 
These talks gave way to "productive 
tensions," according to Hood, who led 
one of the sections. Students related 
personal experiences to those described 
in the texts, but some found that racial 
tensions limited the discussions. 

"There were certain th.ings that a black 
person could say that a white person 
couldn't," Skurnik said. "People were 
very afraid and very defensive." 

One Carby advisee, Rebecca 
Cohen (SY '93), called her section 
"very comfortable." However, others 
accused some white students of taking 
the course as a way of exploring non-
traditional literature, but without seri-
ous intellectual curiosity. "When we 
got into sections, we spent too much 


**Title: Breaking Ground in the Promised Land**
**Author: jose Manuel Tesoro**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T
he West Bank settlement of Elqana is booming. 

Surrounded by cool rolling country, the town's 
freshly painted houses sit among piles of earth and 
construction equipment. Fifty more housing units will join 
a recently finished synagogue on the west side of town, 
while to the north, a branch of a small women's university 
will soon boast new dormitories. Carefully laid out, Elqana 
attempts a proud semblance of peace and order, defying the 
turmoil and tensions of life on the West Bank. In the heart 
of Elkana lies the centerpiece of the town's ambitions: an 
assemblage of steel girders and concrete pillars that in a 
year, promised city engineer Zvika Blum, will become the 
University of New Haven's first overseas branch campus. 
For the 3,000 residents of Elqana, many of whom com- · 
mute daily to work in Tel Aviv 12 miles to the west, the line 
dividing Israel from the Israeli-occupied West Bank has practically ceased to exist. For UNH, however, the border has 
become a dangerous and disastrous line to cross. Criticized by 
many and supported by almost none for its decision to build a 
campus in occupied territory, UNH stumbled into a political 
nightmare with international repercussions. Jewish, Arab, and 
American organizations blasted UNH's surprising foray for 
legitimizing Israeli control of the West Bank, subverting U.S. 
policy, and supporting human-rights violations. "It started as 
an educational enterprise that got bound up in politics," said 
UNH President Lawrence J. DeN ardis. But only after enduring the storm of protest did UNH learn that in the West 
Bank, few enterprises can be anything but political. 

The journey that led UNH from its home in West 
Haven to a settlement on the West Bank started two years 
ago. Under the new DeNardis administration, the 72-year 
old university started looking into ventures abroad. 
Contacts between UNH faculty and Israeli educators had 
brought a deluge of Israeli students, who now comprise 
close to 20 percent of the foreign student population at 
UNH. Since the exodus of Israelis to UNH had been 
caused by a dearth of spaces at universities at home, UNH 
believed that Israel could be a perfect market for its educational product-an American college degree. "We said to 
ourselves, 'No one is doing it. We can do it,"' recalled 
DeN ardis. 

A covenant, forged early last year between UNH and 
the Bio-Technological Institute of Tel Aviv-an unaccredit-
ed two-year college that owns one of UNH's feeder schools 
in Israel, laid the foundation for UNH's overseas adventure. 
The Wingot family, which owns Bio-Tech, had even sent a 
member of the clan, Yehuda Wingot, to study at UNH. 
Bio-Tech offered UNH what seemed to be an ideal 
arrangement, one that would allow the university to reap 
the benefits of the vast market for higher education in 
Israel with minimal financial commitmeii't. 

Shouldering the bulk of the project's financial bur-
den, Bio-Tech would supply the funds to build what 
would be known as the HaSharon campus of UNH. Bio-
Tech planned to manage the campus and maintain its 
facilities. UNH, for its part in the bargain, would select 
faculty and students, construct curricula, and grant 
degrees in programs that ranged from engineering to 
restaurant management. In return, UNH would receive 
one percent of the tuition receipts or a minimum of 
$50,000 a year. With a· projected enrollment of 7,000 
students within three years, UNH could expect nearly $1 
million in revenues from the Israel campus. "It was strictly a question of business," said Joe DiMow, head of the 
New Haven chapter of New Jewish Agenda, a liberal group 
opposed to the plan. 

There was just one problem. The situation in Israel 
that made higher education so lucrative also made it 
extremely difficult for UNH to set up a campus inside the 
country's pre-1967 borders. Within Israel, a consortium of 
seven universities accredits new educational institutions, 
and seldom do they admit new members into their profitable club. "In effect," said DeNardis, "the consortium is a 
higher education cartel." The group of seven refused to 
grant accreditation to the UNH-Bio-Tech deal. The consortium's control could be circumvented-but only by 
building the HaSharon campus across the "Green Line," 
the border between Israel and the West Bank. 

0 
n most Israeli maps, the Green Line no longer 
appears. Ti'te physical distinction between Israel 
and the Occupied Territories has nearly vanished 
i.n some areas. The seamless green of the fields almost 
masks the political fault lines that divide Israel and the 
West Bank. Heading into the territories, however, one soon 
leaves behind the shabby, disorganized sprawls of old Israeli 
towns and starts to pass strikingly homogeneous arrays of 
freshly-painted homes that are the Jewish settlements in 
the Occupied Territories. 

Elqana was one of the fuse settlements in the Occupied 
Territories, built soon after the 1967 Six-Day War that gave 
Israel military control of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. A 
former Jordanian military base now houses the town's municipal building. Although located close enough to the Green 
Line to escape much of the violence that grips the West Bank, 
Elqana is no Eden. Less than a year has passed since a 
Palestinian youth was killed close to the town. 

Many of the Jewish settlers have been moved by religious or political zealotry to brave the dangers of life in 
occupied land. Some settler groups, notably the Gush 
Emunim, want nothing less than the expulsion of all 
Palestinians from the Territories. Elqana, critics of the 
UNH plan claim, was settled by a Gush Emunim group. 
The presence of these extremist settlers represent, in some 
eyes, Israel's attempt to integrate forcibly the Occupied 
Territories. The political tensions between the Jewish settlers, who call the West Bank area Judea and Samaria, and 
the Arab populations, who consider the region occupied 
Palestine, have made violence the order of the day. The 
Jewish presence in the Occupied Territories has been so 
troublesome that many nations, including the U.S., consider a freeze on settlement activity a necessary precondition for a negotiated peace. 

"Israel is trying to create a situation," argued New Jewish 
Agenda's DiMow, "in which there would be no territory to 
return if they decided to return ir." Despite international 
opposition, the recently ousted Likud government in Israel 
openly encouraged the development of the settlements. The 
present construction boom in 
Elqana, in fact, owes its genesis to 
che generous coffers of the past 
administration. 

The Likud government readily 
bestowed its blessing on the 
UNH project. Zvulun Hammer, 
the education minister, granted 
UNH and Bio-Tech the necessary 
licenses to build in the territories. 
Settlers greeted the announce-
ment of the planned HaSharon 
campus with glee. Yechiel Leiter, . 
a spokesperson for the settlers' 
council, told United Press 
International, "The communities 
in Judea and Samaria have come 
of age." 

But when the Likud fell from 
grace in Israel last year, so did 
UNH. The new Labor government under Yitzhak Rabin 
ordered a hale to Jewish settlement in the West Bank. 
Hammer's successor, Shulamit Aloni, declared her resistance 
to the UNH plan, although she admitted she could not 
rescind the license issued by the past administration. 

Stymied in Israel, UNH suddenly found itself under 
siege in the United States as well. Once the plan became 
public knowledge in late November last year, political 
activists started to anack the UNH plan. The American-Arab


--- Page 18 ---

**Title: The University of New Haven's Unfinished Business in Israel**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the peace process." 
UNH attempted to assuage con-
cerns, declaring that the HaSharon 
campus would welcome both Israelis 
and Arabs. Elqana would become a 
place for both to meet in peace. "The 
rhetoric of UNH began to change," 
observed DiMow. "They suddenly 
became interested in building bridges." 
The HaSharon campus, DeNardis said, 
would be "a laboratory in which 
mutual understanding and coexistence 
can be seen as a positive example, an 
incubator of hope for the future of the 
region." 

Members of the mounting oppo-
sition criticized UNH's naivete. ADC 
further accused UNH of discriminat-
ing against Arabs, since no Palestinian 
f~culty had been chosen. "The only 
.Arabs able to get into the university 
will be those who come to clean," said 
Amiram Goldblum, spokesperson for 
Israeli Peace Now. Even worse, oppo-
nents viewed the perceived radicalism 6f 
Elqana's settlers as a danger to the lives 
of any Arabs who might possibly come 
to the HaSharon campus. No 
Palestinian would enroll, they predict:t 
ed. "We knew full well that most of the 
students would be Israelis," explained 
DeNardis recently, "but we thought, 
that by flying the American flag, we 
could attract some Palestinian students 
as well. If that is naive, then so be it." 

The settlers raised the loudest 
voices in UNH's defense. "If Arabs 
want to, they'll come," Nisan 
Shlomiansky, the head of the Elqana 
local council, told the Israeli daily 
Ha'aretz. "If no Indian comes to study 
at a university in the States, does that 
mean that it discriminates?" 

UNH began to find the climate of 
opinion at home much less hospitable 
than that ofElqana. The original lack of 
campus opposition to the plan "was 
based on a willingness to trust a new 
administration," wrote Joel Marks, asso-
ciate professor of philosophy at UNH, 
to the New Haven Register, "and, more 
particularly, on several assertions by that 
APRIL 16, 1993 
l li that powers on high may have used 
~ UNH to promote a pro-settlement 
~ political agenda. "I fear you have been 
.. 
~ misled by your associates from the Bio-
._ e Technological Institute," wrote Peace 
~ Now's Goldblum to DeNardis. 

Ha'aretz, in an article called "Building a 
University with Tricks," pointed out 
~ that Bio-Tech's Win got family main-
~ tained connections to national religious 
~ parties and to the former pro-setde-
Sl 
ment government. "The Jewish brain, 
:§ 
in American covering, found a way to 
-2 
exploit a loophole in the law." conclud-
~ ed Ha'Aretz. UNH had planned to cir-
if cumvent consortium control of higher 
Construction of the campus continues. 
administration which subsequently 
proved to be erroneous." 

UNH stood practically alone. In 
January, a little over a month since it 
revealed the plan to the public, UNH 
announced a delay in the opening of 
the HaSharon campus due to "height-
ened political tensions" in the region. 
The delay was widely interpreted as a 
way for the university to save face, 
while extricating itself from a political 
morass. UNH did not halt, however, 
its search for an overseas site. 

DeNardis traveled to Israel early this 
year to continue negotiations with the 
consortium so that UNH can realize 
its dream of a campus abroad-this 
rime, on the right side of the line. 

'' 
I
t's been a long and unpre-
dictable quest," said DeN ardis 
of his university's strange 
adventure in the realm of international 
policies. Israeli news reports insinuated 
education; it ended up subverting the 
government ban on settlements in the 
territories. Ron Malamud, spokesper-
son for the education minister's office, 
said, 'This looks like a last grab by the 
old government." More likely, the 
HaSharon campus simply represented 
a convergence of interests that sought 
to accomplish a number of objectives, 
only a few of which were purely educa-
tional. 

Although the University of New 
Haven claims to have washed its hands 
of the entire affair, construction of a 
university still progresses in Elqana. 
The city engineer remains under the 
impression that his client is UNH. 
"We are not going ahead with the 
plan," DeNardis insisted. "We are not 
opening a campus in Elqana." But the 
continuing construction suggests that 
the answers to why UNH became a bit 
player in the ongoing drama in the 
Middle East may ultimately lie, if not 
in West Haven, then in Elkana or even 
Jerusalem. While the battle over the 
Occupied Territories rages on, the 
University of New Haven persists in its 
search for a home in Israel. Like Israel, 
UNH remains far from finding peace 
in the promised land. 


jose Manuel Tesoro, 
Jonathan 
Edwards 
editor-in-chiif ofTNJ 
a junior zn 
College, 
ts 
THE NEW jOURNAL 
19 


**Title: Hometown Brew**
**Author: Elisha Cooper**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

'm bottling beer. Eighi:-thirty on a Tuesday morning and 
we're about to load, fill, and cap the first run of 
Connecticut Ale, New Haven Brewing's newest line of 
bottled beer. New Haven Brewing is the largest brewery in 
New Haven-the only brewery in New Haven for that mat-
ter. They are the makers of the ever popular Elm City 
Golden Ale and of Blackwell Stout, the beer with the black 
dog on the label. I've come to their old white warehouse at 
458 Grand Avenue to bottle beer for five dollars an hour. 

Outside the warehouse is an industrial wharf criss-crossed 
by train tracks and a canal which leads down to the harbor. 
Inside, Jim Gordon, a partner in the brewery, walks by 
looking for a bottle opener. 

The airy warehouse has four rooms. There's an office 
filled with pictures and clippings, a basketball hoop, and, 
when I first arrive, a toddler nicknamed "Bud" who is 
bumping randomly into the walls. Presumably, he belongs 
to someone. The office opens onto a storage area traversing 
the length of the warehouse, longer than two basketball 
courts and lined with cases and blue kegs. Inside this space, 
partitioned by walls and windows are the Brewhouse and 
the bottling room. I walk through swinging doors into the 
bottling room. It's large, about 40 feet by 40 feet, and curv-
ing around its wall, inhabiting the space, is the monstrous 
stainless steel machine. It reaches to the ceiling, bursting 
with bits of metal: levers, sprockets, a twisting conveyer belt 
20 THE NEw JouRNAL 
on stilts going in and out, angling tubes. The tubes cut 
through a glass wall through which I can see the last room, 
the Brewhouse, and the bottoms of massive silver tanks. 

The whole place reminds me of my milking days growing 
up on a farm: the stainless steel, the buckets, the gulping 
tubes, teats. But there are no teats here, no udders. And no 
milk either, just beer. 

Work begins. My job· is to take empty brown bottles 
from the stacks of green and blue cases in the center of the 
room and place them on the conveyor belt. As I start load-
ing the belt I notice a large plastic sign to my right, leaning 
against a window. It shouts: 

ACHTUNG! 
Das Machine is Nicht Fur Gerfingerpoken Und 
Mittengraben. Is Easy Schnappen Der Springenwerk, 
Blowenfusen Und Poppencorken Mit Spitzensparken. Is Nicht 
Fur Gerwerken By Dumbkopftn. Das Rubbernecken 
Sightseeren Keepin Das Hands in Das Pockets. Relaxen Und 
'Watch Das Blinkenlights. 

I proceed cautiously. ROTATING PALLETS CAN 
CRUSH FINGERS says an official sticker on the belt, com-
plete with a picture of a mangled hand. Other workers filter 
into the room and someone turns on a Neil Young tape. Jim 
Gordon strides by. With his white sweater, round glasses, 
and shoulder-length blond hair he looks like a very hip 
German philosopher. Only his rubber boots and his smile 

--- Page 21 ---

give him away as a brewer. He disappears and the bottling 
machine yawns itself awake, coming to life with a hum of 
hydraulics. Belts start to churn, and I hear the swish of fluid 
passing. 

The first empty bottle goes down the line, leaving my 
hand and leading its compatriots in an upright brown pro-
cession down the belt. As it reaches the corner of the room, 
it takes a left. The parade orders itself into single file at this 
point, a spot of frequent traffic jams. One of the workers, a 
middle-aged man in a blue hat that says "NHFD Local 
825" scoops soapy water onto the belt with a long silver 
cooking-ladle. This smooths the run. Now the bottle gets 
cleaned; supported on both sides by plastic tubing, it turns 
360 degrees as water jets on both sides douse it inside and 
out, removing any dust. Then it takes a left into the maw of 
the machine. Through a protective glass window I see a 
rubber faucet clamp onto the bottle and fill it with beer. 
When the faucet unclamps, the top of the bottle foams with 
sudsy beer head, and waits for the capper. Jim takes a scoop, 
the kind you'd find in a coffee store, fills it with caps, jumps 
up on a ladder, and tosses the clinking goldens into a hole in 
the top of the machine. With a whoosh the bottle is capped, 
and with a slap the label stuck on. The label around the 
neck says Connecticut Ale; the one on the body is tradition-
al white with"Elm City" in green and blue letters. The first 
labels stick on at all angles, but that doesn't matter. Because 
of contaminants the first couple of cases are thrown out. 

Loading proves strenuous and monotonous. Four giant 
stacks of cases, heavy with empty bottles, sit in the center of 
the room. I lift one case, bring it to th{ belt, unload the bot-
des as quickly as possible, and toss the empty case onto a 
jumbled pile to the right. The motion repeats, and a 
rhythm is born. Working with me is a man named Pete 
with a wool hat and a Texaco shirr. He's a drummer in a 
local band and he taps his fingers against the cases as he 
unloads them. He's much better at unloading than I am, 
picking up four bottles in one movement. Three men work 
at the other end of the machine, taking the beer-filled, wet, 
labeled bottles, making sure labels aren't upside down, and 
packaging them in the empty cases we've thrown their way. 
It takes the machine one minute to churn out 80 bottles. 

During a break I sidle over behind the machine where 
Jim is sitting like a yuppie Buddha. "You have to buy the 
good stuff," he says, pointing to the machine with a spray of 
water from his hose. "If you bake cookies in a plastic pan 
you can't expect-" A bottle explodes. Jim hoses the works 
of the machine, pushing spilled beer, crumpled labels, and 
broken glass off the apparatus onto the floor. Things are 
going smoothly for now; it's natural to lose around 50 beers 
in a run of 360 cases. The machine can "act up" though; 
Jim affectionately calls it the Anti-Christ. I ask him what he 
. enjoys most about brewing. "Not this," he replies, gesturing 
APRIL I6, 199~ 
at the machine. "The best part of the job is walking into a 
bar and getting compliments when they don't even know 
who you are." "What's your favorite beer?" I ask. Jim 
laughs. "The Stout." 

I go upstairs to help grab some bottle tops. The loft of 
the warehouse is immense, dim, and shadowed. Wooden 
rafters. hang over a stretching dusty floor, and boxes of sup-
plies line the wall, all appropriately labeled with the green-
and-blue Elm City logo. A gray couch sits alone in the mid-
dle of the loft: a rhino alone in the veldt. A croquet set rests 
in a box next to the wall. I can imagine the brewers taking a 
break and coming up here for a quick game. 

I go back to hauling bottles. Through the glass in front 
of me I can see the storage area and stacks of hefty brown 
bags with BRIESS MALT -CHILTON WI written on the 
side. Each bag is 50 pounds; I find out later that New 
Haven Brewing orders around 40,000 pounds of malt from 
Wisconsin every five or six weeks. About 500 pounds are 
used in each run. It sounds like a lot, but compared to larg-
er breweries like Anheuser-Busch it's nothing. 

Microbrewing, though expanding, is a small and spe-
cialized industry-worlds apart from the giants of 
Milwaukee and St. Louis. Beginnings are often humble. 
New Haven Brewing started with Blair Potts (BK '84) 
experimenting with beer recipes as an undergrad in his Taft 
building apartment. Rick Elser (BR '81), owner of Richter's 
Bar, joined him and they incorporated in 1987. Since then 
Elser has left and Jim Gordon has come aboard. They were 
joined by a chubby third partner, Mike Gettings, the ironic 
inspiration behind Mr. Mike's Light Ale, New Haven 
Brewing's light beer. In 1989 they moved to 458 Grand 
Avenue, a converted trolley barn. New Haven Brewing now 
supplies countless retailers, Yale sports teams, restaurants 
The Brewhouse reminds me of my 
milking days growing up on a farm. 
But there are no teats here:~ no udders. 
And no milk either, just beer. 
and bars in the area .. Nevertheless, in one year they will pro-
duce less than two-thirds as much beer as Anheuser-Busch 
will spill in one day. It's an old brewing cliche, but true. 

With a dying whoosh from the machine the first run is 
over. It's 11:30 and we've bottled 359 cases. The union man 
gestures at me, then around him, and says, "Relax, have a 
beer." 

During lunch I venture into the Brewhouse. It's a won-
derful room. Glass-paned windows frame the view of snow-
covered Grand Avenue. Wooden rafters cross high above on 
THE NEw JouRNAL 
21 



**Title: A Day at the New Haven Brewery**
**Author: Elisha Cooper**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the ceiling. Lining the walls, like the 
regal monumencs ar Stonehenge, are 
eight silver fermentation tanks with 
blue labels. They must be over 20 feet 
tall. Sunlight deans the entire space 
and cascades onto che concrete floor 
where a swash of beer and malt tum~ 
bles down the drains. Huge blue tubes 
coil on rhe floor, pumping beer. 

In the c~entef of it all is Blair Potts, 
loping around the metal drums like an 
anxious gnome. He wears a red Jzod 
over a workshirt which, pulled up, 
reveals strong arms. He used to row 
crew for Yale. His trousers tuck into 
big black rubber boots. He has little 
round glasses, an earnest and energetic 
look, and, at 30, thinning hair. He was 
a self-described "chemistry weenie" in 
high school. 

"I believe in the Jeffersonian ideal 
of the yeoman farmer, making a small 
contribution to the community, "he 
says, thoughtfully, pausing from 
adjusting a tube to look at me. "1 don't 
dance, can't sing, not such a writer, but 
I'm a pretty decent brewer." Blair 
moves over to tbe filter, which is con~ 
nected by rubes to the No. 4 tank, and 
check& a small window with a flash~ 
light. Fluid can be seen gliding by, 
golden and swift. He taps rhe metal. 
"Someday this thing is going to blow 
up and kill me." He continues, "I like 
creating things." He is very proud of 
their Blackwell Stout, named after the 
dog of his original partner, Elser. 
lronicaUy, Blair can't drink Blackwell 
Stout, or any beer for that matter, as he 
is allergic to hops. He can only sip, 
then spit. It seems to be a frequently 
mentioned, somewhat sore subject, so I 
ask him gingerly what his favorite beer 
is. "The Stout, ... he says nodding. "I 
originally made it to impress my wife." 

Blair moves over to cwo smaller 
ranks. He takes a glass, places it under a 
spigot on the underside of the tank 
marked "MASH TUM-CAP 724," 
then turns the spigot. Yellow liquid 
rushes out into the glass. "Here, try 
chis,'' he says and hands it to me. It's 
warm and castes jusr like malted~milk 
balls. "It's wort," Blair says, which 
rurns our to be raw beer. He proceeds 
co tell me the fine points of the New 
Haven brewing process. Wisconsin 
malr: is added to city water. The brew-
ery uj;es two-row malt, which is more 
traditional, more expensive, and takes 
longer co brew. Enzymes activate in the 
malt, and the sugar that ferments 
makes alcohol. Changing the tempera-
cure during this process is important; it 
determines the body of the beer. Six 
gallons of yeast are added per run. 
UnfortQnately fOr Blair, hops, a clarify~ 
ing agent or p~servative, is also added. 

We walk up a set of metal stairs nex( to 
the wort tank, and peer down inside. 
It's steaming. At the bottom is a little 
heap of white matter. "That's crub,"' 
Blair explains. "a protein sediment 
from the. brewing.., 

I turn around> and next co me at 
the top of the stairs ~ of all things, a 
canoe paddle. Blair dashes off before I 
can ;.tSk him if it has anything to do 
with removing the trub. I idly wonder 
jf they use the paddle to stir the beer. 

B
lair retu{ns, pacing along with 
quiet energy. Earlier he bad 
talked about the attractive 
lifestyle of a brewmaster, and now we 
continue discussjng what he likes 
about brewing-creativity. I listen and 
lean against a blue bucket fuU of used 
malt which, Blair tells me, he 
exchanges for a side of beef with a 
farmer in Monroe, Connecticut, 
named Bert Block. "Some people go 
into investment banking. some people 
go into medicine, some go into ... " 

Blair's voice recedes as he darts behind 
one of the tanh to check the C02 
content from a gauge. "And you?" I ask 
when he reappears. "WeU •.. I guess I 
just had an open mind." 

The second run does not go 
smoothly. "Somebody must've changed 
the machine in here during lunch,., Jim 
mutt:ers to me and to the machine. 
"'Pretty horrible." The Anti-Christ is 
acting up; frequent explosions emanate 
from its insides. The remains of 40 or 
50 crushed bottles of beer wallow 
about on the sudsy floor. The labeler is 
not working well either; sticky labels 
point every which way. Jim has to stop 
the machine, slam doors, and toss 
expletives before he can get it working 
again. 

I'm still loading the conveyor belt; 
the pjle of empty caseS slowly shrinks. I 
understand what Blair meant when he 
said .that working in a brewery was 
hard work, that he often puts in ten-
hour days. Soon it is over though; 4:00 
and 361 cases bottled .in the aft-ernoon 
run. The machine fizzes out, dripping. 
Jim storms off in a Nietzschean rage. 
and we start to mop up the refuse and 
pour unused beer down the drain. 

Back in the office the mood has 
calmed. The three partners lounge in 
easy chai~ the picture of tired and sat-
isfied workers. A box of Oreo cookies is 
on one desk. "You don't see this in cor-
porate!" l>ellows Mike Gettings, who 
had been away for the day. " We need a 
nap break around here, cookies, milk," 
says Jim wanly, leaning back, still 
recovering from his run-in with the 
machine. Blair lopes out to the ware-
house. He returns with an unmarked 
brown bottle, silently opens it, pours, 
and passes around the glass. The beer is 
dark and thick, an extremely rich caste. 
It's the new Imperial Stout, a secret 
which he's been working on. 

When I leave I grab a six-pack of 
newly-bottled Connecticut Ale from 
their fridge. I'm reminded of what Jim 
said to me before: ''When you send 
some of these cases out of here it's 
almost like dropping off your kids on 
their first day of school." I carefully 
place the beer in my bag, shake hands 
with Blair and Jim, and leave the ware-
bouse. As I bike back over railroad 
tracks and bridges, the beer clunks soft-
ly against my back. 

-
Elisha Coop~r. ll smior in TrumbuLl 
Co/lege, is on the staff ofTNJ. 
.APRJL 16, 1993 


**Title: BETWEEN THE VINES-----Hooking Up**
**Author: Ellen Barry**
**Page number(s): 23**

There was something sweet and strange about that 
night, when Mike Maloney held my hand for hours inside 
my coat pocket, so nobody could see. Not like I thought 
anything would come of it-here was a boy I knew only as a 
friend of a friend-a stranger. He was pretty drunk and 
extravagant on the dance floor, dipping me, making the 
room spin. He seemed only halfway aware of me, anyway, 
and never called me by my name. The whole encounter was 
doubtful, as my roommates pointed out the next morning. 
And yet, and yet. He was a junior, tall and broadshouldered, 
and he wore a long wool coat like my father's. It was 
December and my cheeks burned and this boy I hardly 
knew held my hand steadily for an entire night. 

I was breathless from it-dizzy not from the beer we 
shared on a stairway somewhere but from the sense of devel-
oping events-and I smiled and smiled, wondering. I was 18 
and could not get over the recklessness. This was the front 
end of experience for me; nothing like high school. I was not 
as aware of that as I was of his broad bands, his suede bucks, 
the straight brown hair that fell over his eyes. 

The scene had possibilities but collapsed under its own 
weight later in the evening as I became, by gradations, dead 
sober. This is what I remember: we .are at some marginal 
fraternity near my college and he st:Ods close behind me, 
barely touching me, like we had agreed on something. We 
are with five boys and one girl, and the girl lies sprawled on 
this water bed in this weird fraternity and says, with total 
candor, that she has never had sex on a waterbed. There is a 
pregnant pause. We stand, mulling this over, and someone 
says, "If we had. cards, we could play Asshole." 

So I balked. I walked home alone in the cold, regretting 
something, thinking I should be more open to things. I 
don't hook up much; the ridiculousness of it always strikes 
me at the wrong time, and the sweet scene of Mike Maloney 
holding my hand gives way to some moron in a fraternity 
suggesting that we play cards. And it replays itSelf, not just 
for me but for my friends: a kid asks us to play pool in his 
basement, or listen to Elvis in his apartment, or see the 
glow-in-the-dark stars on his ceiling. Sometimes we go. 

Hooking up has become a way of life for some of us-
seemingly safe, empowering, and a uniquely collegiate phe-
nomenon. These four years make it not precisely promiscu-
ous, because they are college boys. They were on the debate 
team in high school, probably, and we expect them to listen 
if we tell them to stop. Generally they don't go very far sex-
ually. They are drinking from the same keg, their hands 
touch by accident, she puts on his baseball cap, he pulls a 
strand of hair out of her mouth and by then they are so 
close it is inevitable. We don't, as a rule, pick up men in 
nightclubs. On campus things are different-the egregious 
pick-up lines are still lines but somehow endearing-even 
boys with experience are boys, and awkward. 

My friend Natalie has long thick hair and wears well-
cut French blazers. She lies on her back on her bed ro tell 
me about hooking up; she ticks them off and comes up with 
the number 21. Most of them were freshman year, when "a 
weekend you didn't hook up was-" She doesn't finish but 
what she means is a bust, a useless night our, a game you 
lost. Natalie has distilled the experience over time, and her 
philosophy has shifted a little since freshman year, when she 
expected the guys to call her afterwards. 

"It is worth having a man sleep in your bed," she says, 
finally. "It is worth having a warm body, a little release. 
Sometimes you just want a little fix." 

Natalie is dating someone now. So far things have been 
fairly orthodox: they sing in the same chorus and she liked 
him from afar, then dared herself to talk to him, now he 
calls her and comes early to our parties. We tell her, repeat-
edly, bow cute he is, but she frowns. She's not sure if she 
likes him and doesn't want to lead him on. I hear her on the 
phone to her sister, talking about ambivalence. She says last 
night she started noticing flaws. As soon as you are close 
enough to see pores, she says, everything else dissolves into


--- Page 24 ---

them. He is paunchy, appareni:Iy. 

Natalie prefers boys on teams. 

Reaching back to her salad days 
for my sake, she smiles, proud of her 
ability to hook up on a regular basis. 
She reels off case studies, strategies and 
her -personal weapon: significant eye 
contact. 

One time there were actually bets 
placed between Natalie and a friend at a 
dance, freshman year. Blackstodcinged, 
fiercely turned out, the two gitls "picked 
out these random guys and just . 
worked it." Natalie caught this kid's 
eye-he played football-and he came 
over to dance with her. "We sort of 
established that we were going to hook 
up before we even had a conversation," 
she says, smiling and still astonished at 
her nerve. So finally they did have a 
conversation, sitting in the college 
common room. He was already hold-
ing her hand, and when he finally 
talked he said, "Your lips are so red, 
you are so sensuous," she recalls. She 
says she tried to shut him up before 
she got too appalled to go home with 
him. "It's easier to fool around than 
just talk," she says. "Can you imagine · 
just talking for seven hours?" 

Recalling the incident, Natalie 
laughs. She is a girl with attitude, 
someone who isolates what she wants 
and works systematically. "I definitely 
felt powerful that I had the ability to 
just pick someone out," she says. 
When she likes a guy, that power evap-
orates. 

Late-night empowerment can also 
quickly degenerate into early-morning 
embarassment. Alice, who has hooked 
up five times in four years, calls it 
"post hook-up syndrome," and my 
friend Dianne has it bad. Late in fresh-
man year, Dianne was picked up by a 
senior named Lewis whom she recalls, 
dismissively, as "kind of cute." They 
met at a fraternity-Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon, she says-and after a short 
conversation that "wasn't all that 
sophisticated," he kissed her, embarassed 
her, and came up with the creative solu-
tion of going to his room. Which she 
did, sternly, articulating her limits like 
it says in Our Bodies, Ourselves. Later 
on, Dianne tried to dress in the dark, 
bumping into furniture because she 
didn't want to wake him up. 

She escaped to his bright bath-
room and realized that in her hurry 
she had left "a few crucial items" in 
Lewis' room. Three years after the fact, 
Dianne attempts to recreate the sce-
nario that became what we remember 
as the Bra Incident. 

This incident brought Lewis' true 
nature into high beams, and it turned 
out Lewis was a schmuck. Dianne says 
she "called him about 500 times" and 
left messages requesting the return of 
her "scuff." No response. So finally she 
confronted him in the post office and 
demanded her bra. He promised to 
leave it in a paper bag in a cubbyhole 
outside his dining hall and she checked 
it every day for weeks to no avail. 

"It became an obsession with me," 
says Dianne. "I had dreams about it. I 
had this one nightmare where I went 
into his room to look for it and in his 
closet there were rows and rows of bras 
and none of them were mine." 

Dianne's experience with Lewis is 
a classic example of .. :rftermath, the 
biggest strike against hooking up. 

"My best hookups have been with 
people who I knew I would never ever 
ever see again," says Dianne, remem-
bering a German exchange student, a 
These girls are lucid 
and deliberate and 
bulletproof 
swimmer from Brown. Otherwise the 
night gets complicated. Is it a law of 
thermodynamics? If you kiss a 
stranger, even a very appealing 
stranger, between 1:30 and 3:30 
Saturday night, you are likely to pass 
him frequently over the course of the 
next week and then regularly until he 
graduates or you do. And you may 
avoid looking at him, or you may say 
hello, but you won't ask him for your 
bra back, and he won't ask you to the 
movies. Romance dies quickly in these 
situations; embarassment lasts forever. 

My friends, who are seniors, say 
the key to escaping this uneasiness is 
low expectations. "Freshman year I 
sort of wanted something afterwards, 
and that's kind of naive," says one 
woman. Now these women are power-
hungry and utterly pragmatic. 

Recently Natalie lured to her room a 
boy with "long wavy hair" who "spoke 
French." They listened to music and 
kissed for a long time. When he left, 
1he said, "If I give you my address and 
phone number, will you write to me or 
call me?" And Natalie said, "Just enjoy



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Ellen Barry**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
tonight." The freshman girls who 
waited for calls have become seniors 
who coolly tell young men not to 
bother. Dianne's theory goes this way: 
her love life here has foundered lately, 
but someday she will meet someone, 
and sexual experience will come in 
handy. "I see it all as educating 
myself," she says. 

The rules of the game have 
changed accordingly. As seniors, these 
women focus more on underclassmen, 
whom they describe as "reverent." As 
an ingenuous freshman, Dianne "was 
definitely getting picked up," she says, 
and the biggest shift now lies in "who's 
calling the shots." They buy their own 
condoms, these women, and sexual 
intimidation is not high on their list of 
worries. "I feel like I pounced on this 
boy last night," one of them tells me, 
looking sheepish, pulling a bathrobe 
close around her. "I left his head spin-
ning." There is less pressure involve..d 
now, less loss of footing, says Natalie. 
Lately, hooking up is less of a seduc-
tion, she adds. "I only do it when I 
really want to." 

Because when we got here, 18: 
year-olds, we were more or less borne 
along by events. All that year we 
walked the edge between disaster and 
beautiful credulity. Our first nights 
were heart-stopping, volatile: an older 
cc I feel totally in 
l " 
contro ~ 
says one 
friend and she means 
that she has reduced it 
to a system. 
boy leaned over like he was drinking 
from a water fountain and ended up, 
astonishingly, kissing us. He said he 
liked us; we said, "Don't lie to me." 
We were routinely amazed at the rum of 
events; he walked us home at sunrise 
and bought doughnuts. Nothing has 
ever been so good, we wrote in our jour-
nals, if we still kept them. I love his hair, 
we wrote. It was uncharted ground. 

On a balcony, against a wall, at a 
billiard hall on Chapel Street, these 
were the first nights of new lives. They 
_were chancy. They were frightening. 
My first night sticks with me on the 
strength of one image: I am not used 
to drinking; I am almost unconscious; 
this man I do not know is unbutton-
ing my shirt and my head hits the end 
of his bed loudly. He asks me if I am 
all right and I can still hear him laugh-
ing. Were you ever afraid? I ask Alice. 
Yes, she says. There was one time 
when I had to yell "Get the fuck off 
me," she says. "And he didn't get off." 

My friends have been through 
it-the hand around the wrist, the 
hollow leavetaking-and they are 
exhausted with the effort of self-
defense. "I feel totally in control," says 
one friend, and she means that she has 
reduced it to a system. She setS bound-
aries, she expects little, she knows what 
she wants and castS her net no farther. 
Natalie's preagreed contracts include 
not only sexual limits, but a walk 
home afterwards. These girls are lucid 
and deliberate and bulletproof. The 
dangerous plunge of freshman year-
the crapshoot-is eliminated, and so, 
strangely, is most of the appeal. "I look 
back fondly" on the procession of 
warm, unknown men, "but I wouldn't 
want it anymore," Natalie says. "We've 
all found that it just gets less satisfy-
ing," says Alice. Eagerness is a quality 
that gets you into trouble, and if we 
regret its passing then we do it from 
the safe vantage of maturity. Still there 
is something lost-the hand in my 
pocket-the years when possibility 
constructed itself even in the muddy 
yard of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. 

Names have bun changed. You can 
imagine. 
Ellen Barry is a unior in Ezra Stiles 
Co/kg e. 


**Title: GI Blues**
**Author: Elaine Lewinnek**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

Discussion of changes at Yale often gravitates toward 
the 60s, with images of hippie students and 
tenured radicals. But by the late 1940s, post-war 
realities had already begun to alter 250 yews ofYale elitism, 
as ex-soldiers in fatigues sat in class next to navy-blazered 
prep school graduates. The freshman class of 1946 was the 
largest in Yale's history, included more public-school gradu-
ates than the university had ever had, and began a lasting 
liberalization ofYale. 

Behind Yale's post-war transformation was the GI Bill 
of Rights, part of the Servicemen's Readjustment Act. With 
this legislation, the U.S. Government agreed to pay for four 
years of college for all returning soldiers. Yale patriotically 
accepted as many of the ex-soldiers it could squeeze in, even 
housing some students on cots in Payne Whitney 
Gymnasium and in specially built huts around New Haven. 

Congress p~sed the GI Bill in 1944 to ease the coun-
try's shift into peace time. Instead of having thousands of 
unemployed soldiers trying to find work all at once, Uncle 
Sam sent the servicemen to college. American universities 
faced a sudden flood of students. Yale's enrollment increased 
by 60 percent. In 1945, there were 257 people in the fresh-
man class at Yale. In 1946, the freshman class burgeoned to 
an astounding 1,767 students. 

These statistics may be misleading, since during the 
confusion of World War II, Yalies often switched classer. 
For example, Reverend Harry Adams (BK '48), now the 
master of Trumbull College, entered Yale in the summer of 
1942 expecting to graduate in 1945 through Yale's acceler-
ated year-round war programs. Adams was called into ser-
vice in February 1943, returned to Yale with some of the 
first released soldiers in October 1945, and finally graduat-
ed in January 1948. His case was not unusual. 

"By the spring of '43, there were almost no civilians left 
at Yale," Adams recaJled. He estimated that 90% of his class 
left for active duty in the war. The a1my and navy stationed 
training programs at Yale, housing soldiers on Old Campus 
and in all but three of the residential colleges. After the war, 
Yale's policy was to "accept anyone who had been here under 
any program," Adams said. The classes entering in 1945 and 
1946 included not only many students new to the Ivy League, 
but also five years' worth of backlogged Yale students and 
those who had come here for army and navy training. "It 
began to be a very complex and diverse place," Adams said. 

The aftermath of World War II shaped the Yale that 
students know today. Before the war, a three-room suite 
held two people. After 1946, the same suite, now with army-
style bunkbeds, held four. "Yale has never gone back to the 
space it had before," Adams said. 

College dining halls typified the changing Yale. Before the 
war, students wore ties and jackets to dinner, sat at tables with 
linen table-cloths, ordered from printed menus, and were 
served by waiters and waitresses. After the war, rhe new crowds 
forced dining halls to change "from restaurant-style to army-
style," according to Larry Schafer (TC '47). Students waited in 
long cafeteria lines and ate from metal trays identical to rhe 
ones they had used in the army. "Jackets became customary 
rather than obligatory," said Harrold Parritz (SM '49). 

The revolution in dress code was nor confined to the dining 
halls. "Some of the returning soldiers still wore their GI-issue 
clothes, at least for the first year," Schafer said. "They often were 
too poor to buy new clothes. There was something of a clothing 
shortage after the war, and army clothes were good clothes." 

But Yale had more pressing concerns than dinner dress to 
worry about. To house roughly 200 married Yale students and 
their families, Yale built special quonset huts-half-dome 
structures with a living room, kitchen and bedroom, near the 
Yale Bowl and at the present sire of the Pierson-Sage garage. 
Other married students (25 percent ofthe class of 1950) found 
off-campus housing. George Bush (DC '48), for instance, lived 
with his wife Barbara and 40 other people in crowded quarters 
at 37 Hillhouse Ave. 

As the average age of graduating seniors rose from 21 to 23, 
marriage became only one index of maturity. "Many of those 
men had three or four years of violence behind them," said 
Bradford Wright (SM '49). Some of the returning soldiers suf-
fered from battle fatigue, Schafer said, but few manifested 
overt problems. People before 1946 referred to students as 
"Yale boys." With the barrie-forged class that entered in 1946, 
people began to speak of "Yale men." 

The ex-Gis generally earned higher GPAs than the 
younger students, according to a 1946 Ya/~ Daily N~ws. 
"Having had experiences outside of academics, we were clearer, 
more focused," Adams said. Older and sometimes less privi-
leged than typical Yalies, many Gls were also more conscious 
of the need to find a job after graduation. Leon Blum (BK '50) 
said the veterans "brought a more serious approach to college 
than there had been in the past. Gut courses didn't attract the 
vets. They were interested in learning. trying to get as much as 
they could our of college." 

Schafer, who first entered Yale in 1938, disagreed, despite the 
statistics. "Some of those guys who got in on the GI Bill might 




**BANGKOK GARDENS**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
BANGKOK 
GARDENS 
Fine Thai Cuisine 
"The price is 
certainly right, 
and so is the 
location." 
- New York 
Times, June '92 
172 York Street •789-8684 
Across from the Yale Rep 
'~ast ana :F rientf{y 
Service"


**AFTERTHOUGHT-------------------------Action, for a Change**
**Author: Shana Waterman**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

This writing is meant as a reminder to myself as much as it is to 
each of you. There was something abour the anger at the 
Beinecke rallies last April that was refreshing. But to what end? 
((yale is New Haven and New Haven is Yale!" 
Voices of anger lifted up a resounding cry from 
the pavement of Yale's campus last spring. 
Hundreds of students gathered on Beinecke Plaza to vent 
their rage and disgust at the oppression which still infects 
this country, and to agitate for change. The police officers 
who had savagely beaten black motorist Rodney King had 
been acquitted, and Los Angeles was on fire. 
For so many of us who come from communities where 
AJuL 16, 1993 
urban blight and violence are a part of the everyday land-
scape, what happened in Los Angeles was not a surprise. 
The riots were a predictable result of too much poverty and 
too little justice. The verdict fanned an already raging fire 
by reinforcing the perception that the legal system does not 
work for those who do not have the resources to manipulate 
its decisions. 
Some of my Yale classmates were caught off guard by 
the riots, and in various discussions they showed that they 
did not understand the basic roots of the upheaval. The 
shock that many Yale students felt revealed a basic igno-
rance-there is violence in South Central, and throughout 
our country, every day. I did not expect or want approval of 
THE NEW jOUJlNAL 29


this pillage and Qestruction, but I was 
disturbed that some of the nation's 
supposedly most promising future 
leaders did not recognize that oppres-
sion often leads to revolt. 
The violence inflicted upon 
Rodney King was emblematic of what 
is happening to this nation's children. 
As Marian Wright Edelman, director 
of the Children's Defense Fund, said 
when she spoke at Yale this March: for 
many children, home, school, and 
most places in between have become 
warzones. How can a child concen-
trate on algebra when she or he is terri-
fied of being shot? Too many of our 
children are beaten down by the con-
ditions of their environments before 
they can discover the heights of their 
potential. The death of an innocent 
South Central child is such a common 
occurence that it tends not to receive 
much attention. Because of that lost 
promise, we all suffer. 
How can a child 
concentrate on algebra 
when she or he is 
terrified of being shot? 
Before the riots, the rampant 
crime that South Central residents 
faced daily appeared to be contained. 
The riots, and particularly the beating 
of another innocent-white motorist 
Reginald Denny shattered this illusion 
and provoked a national outcry. To all 
sympathetic human beings the inci-
dent was repulsive. But white America 
was especially terrified. The car once 
seemed to be an inviolate space. Safely 
inside their vehicles, suburbanites can 
pass through and around urban blight 
without stopping, without ever look-
ing back. The beating of Reginald 
Denny symbolized the possibility that 
white Americans could be ensnared in 
this violence. The potential for injury 
30 THE NEW jOURNAL 
was suddenly too close to home ... it 
was time to call in the National 
Guard. 
Y
ale has historically existed 
under a similar illusion of 
containment. Only recently, it 
seems, has the university opened its 
eyes to the city with which it is inextri-
cably linked. New Haven suffers many 
of the same problems which led to the 
revolt in L.A. The students who were 
?n Beinecke Plaza recognized that 
what happened in Los Angeles could 
have taken place in New Haven given 
a similar set of circumstances. These 
students expressed their concerns to 
Yale alumni, who were holding a kick-
off assembly for the university's $1.5 
billion fundraising campaign. A set of 
demands were issued which stressed 
the university's obligation to give back 
significantly to New Haven. The list 
of demands called for Yale to initiate 
and upgrade programs which would 
encourage job training and offer 
greater support to places like the 
Dixwell Q House, and to exert more 
energy in celebrating Yale's multicul-
tural community with the establish-
ment of a mandatory freshperson ori-
entation on this topic. 
A year has passed and, as always, 
memories fade and emotions once 
expressed passionately, lose their fire. 
What became of the demands made 
on Beinecke and the energy which 
forced them to be articulated? 
Of course, there are those who 
were working to make a difference 
before the beating of Rodney King and 
who continue to do so today. Their 
efforts make it easier for others to fol-
low in their footsteps. The L.E.A.P. 
program enables college students to 
-Jive in New Haven's housing develop-
ments while leading children in a com-
prehensive program of education and 
recreation. This program is a model 
for the nation-right in our backyard. 
There are also student tutoring pro-
grams such as UIC, BRANCH and 
TIES, AYA Community Service 
Fellowships, and opportunities to be a 
Dwight Hall Summer intern. 
As Alderman Mike Morand (D-
1) stated in a recent speech, the uni-
versity itself has created programs that 
point in the right direction. "The 
Medical School has taken a leading 
role in school reform and in fighting 
AIDS, lead poisoning, tuberculosis, 
and infant mortality," he said. "The 
Architecture School requires all first-
yea.r students to participate in a com-
AluL 16, 1993 



**Title: Yale and the Community**
**Author: Shana Steinman**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
munity project that has built many 
units of affordable housing in New 
Haven. The Yale Psychiatric Institute 
has established a pannership with the 
Hill Development Corporation that 
provides job training and employment 
in the health care field for Hill neigh-
borhood residents." 

All of the above are encouraging. 
Yet with the massive resources that this 
university commands, it is still neces-
sary to do more. Can Yale really afford 
not to? 

The nation has a new President 
who speaks of a commitment to 
improve the quality of life for all 
Americans. There are more people of 
color in Congress than ever before. 
And yet, while we celebrate these 
advances, we must not cling to the 
mistaken notion that public figures 
alone can transform our world for us. 
The changes, the progressions that we 
as youth need to spearhead, must 
occur first at the grassroots level. We 
must each give of our time and our 
energy. There is something unique 
about what each of us as human 
beings can contribute. However, we ~ 
students, in the tradition of all the stu:. 
dent activists who came before us, 
have a special obligation to push for 
change. 

Marian Wright Edelman is lobby-
ing the government for the funding 
which makes many important pro-
grams possible. Her biggest nightmare 
however, is that, after getting full 
funding for Head Start and programs 
whose successes have been demon-
strated time and time again, there will 
not be sufficient numbers of dedicat-
ed, competent, and committed per-
sonnel to fulfill their mandates. What 
good is a battle plan without soldiers? 
In real terms, an idea intellectually 
conceived without being actualized 
makes for a hollow victory. 

t is 1993. A year has gone by. The 
racism, the violence, the ci~ies 
without jobs, and the schools w1th-
AluL 16, 1993 
out money continue to exist. And 
while there are some successes, many 
problems fester unabated. 

As Rabbi Arnold Wolf wrote in a 
1976 issue of the Yale Alumni 
Magazine, "We have lost our illusions 
at Yale. We live within the inner city 
.surrounded by poverty and crime, and 
there are no islands in this city where 
we live. The dream of the ivory tower 
An idea intellectually 
conceived without being 
actualized makes for 
hollow victory. 
and the safe refuge are gone. As if it 
were possible to lock out all those who 
were different from us. It is the law of 
the scripture and also of the w~rld that 
oppression brings retribution, that 
benign n eglect brings panic in its 
wake. We cannot be invulnerable sur-
rounded by vulnerability." 

It js time to take stock of what we 
said and where we have gone since the 
riots and the protests at Yale. We must 
realize that for most people conditions 
have not changed. Yet, while being 
realistic in our appraisal, we must be 
committed to the belief that each of us 
can, in some unique and individual 
way, work towards the achievement of 
social justice. Our predecessors have 
found the courage to pave the way. We 
must not abandon this mandate. 

Unless action follows, expressions of 
emotion as displayed on Beinecke 
temporarily ease guilt but in the end 
do nothing. 

It is time for each of us to take person-
al inventory. 

Or, do we really need another wake-up 
call? 

li1l 
Shana ~tnman is a junior in Bn-keky 
Co/kg e. 



COLMAN 
bookkeeping services 
904 whallel,l avenue· 
new haven. ct 06515 
LIFE 
across from Old Campus 
is so convenient. 
With apartments ranging from a 
studio to a 3 bedroom, we have 
something to fit your lifestyle. 
Call or just stop in at our office. 
SRDC 
1032 Chapel Street 
New Haven 
777-3017 
Business Hours: 
Mon.-Fri. 8:3o-s:oo 
John J. Schmitz 
Certified Public Accountant 
64 Trumbull St. 
New Haven, CT 06510 
(203) 624-1013 
2 North Main St. 
Chester, CT 06412 
(203) 526-5261 
April 15, 1994 
is only a year away ... 
THE NEW jOURNAL ,, ~ 


Yale Quick Copy Center 
P&rk 
Pierson 
A&-A 
Davenport 
14~ork 
llep i 
c. 
~" 
Jll 
BAC 
Ol4Campu.s 
College 
Copies 
only 4¢* 
149 York Street 
432-COPY 
(432-2679) 
8to 6:30 
Monday-Friday 
Resumes 
Tabletents 
Posters 
Course material 
Typesetting from 
Macintosh disks 
8e whatnot 
-Still the lowest 
prices in Elm City 
•per copy for more than ten copies of the same or1g1nal; 
the prtoe 1s 4lfa oents each for one to ten copies.

