Publication date: September 3, 1993
Volume: 26
Issue number: 1


**MASTHEAD:**
- Editorials: Jose Manuel Tesoro


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- About this Issue
- Afterthought: How I Spent My Summer. - Richard Brodhead
- Two· Yalies For Cheers. - Suzanne Kim
- From Town to Gown. - John Kim
- Where the Buck Stops. - Joshua Civin
- Mapping the Interior: Hiram Bingham and the Dream of Discovery. - Jose Manuel Tesoro
- Lifting the Veil at Yale. - Regina Gelin
- Feeding the City. - John Gorham


**Title: About this Issue**
**Author: (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 5**


**Title: Afterthought: How I Spent My Summer.**
**Author: Richard Brodhead**
**Page number(s): 28**



**Title: Two· Yalies For Cheers.**
**Author: Suzanne Kim**
**Page number(s): 13**

Two· Yalies For Cheers. by Suzanne Kim. Rob Long (TC '87) and Dan 
Staley (BK '85) have laughed their way from High Street to Hollywood. 



**Title: From Town to Gown.**
**Author: John Kim**
**Page number(s): 6**

From Town to Gown. by John Kim. Bringing more Elm City grads inside 
Yale s ivy walls proves more difficult than it appears. 



**Title: Where the Buck Stops.**
**Author: Joshua Civin**
**Page number(s): 8**

Where the Buck Stops. by Joshua Civin. The Yale community demands 
superhuman feats from its president. Can anyone fit the bill? 



**Title: Mapping the Interior: Hiram Bingham and the Dream of Discovery.**
**Author: Jose Manuel Tesoro**
**Page number(s): 16**

Mapping the Interior: Hiram Bingham and the Dream of Discovery. by 
Jose Manuel Tesoro. The lure of the unknown brought a ragtag expedition 
from Yale to Peru and turned a little-known professor into a self-styled hero. 



**Title: Lifting the Veil at Yale.**
**Author: Regina Gelin**
**Page number(s): 22**

Lifting the Veil at Yale. by Regina Gelin. Yale s married undergrads 
balance Blue Books with wedded bliss. · 



**Title: Feeding the City.**
**Author: John Gorham**
**Page number(s): 25**

Feeding the City. by John Gorham. New Havens two most famous 
contributions to American cuisine are more than just a source of weal pride. 


**Title: About This Issue**
**Author: The Editors**
**Page number(s): 5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Like the "discoverers" of Machu Picchu, we at The New Journal consider ourselves explorers. But unlike Hiram Bingham and his team, our summertime explorations always begin and end at home. This summer we took our commitment to traversing the homefront quite literally, visiting the domestic confines of four married undergraduates. Summertime also gave us the opportunity to wander beyond our Gothic walls and our city limits. Out there we met two Yale grads who have made careers writing Hollywood sitcoms.

In this issue, we renew our commitment to mapping the changes in the university administration. One year ago, The New Journal featured stories on outgoing president Benno Schmidt and interim president Howard Lamar. This year, with our third administration in as many years, we offer two perspectives on the uphill climb: an examination of the duties of the university president and Richard Brodhead's own, straight-from-the-source reflections on becoming Dean of Yale College.

At The New Journal, though, exploration is not merely a summertime pursuit. We look forward to the coming year's discoveries and invite you to join us in making them. The trek begins at our organizational meetings: Monday, September 6, at 7:30 PM in the Silliman Common Room and Wednesday, September 8, at 7:00 PM at St. Anthony Hall, 438 College Street (Corner of College and Wall Streets). Whatever your talent may be-business, photography, design, artwork, computers, or writing-there's a place for you on our expedition.

TNJ congratulates former managing editor Emily Bazelon (PC '93) for winning the John Hersey Prize and staff member Suzanne Kim (SY '96) for winning the Meeker Prize for her TNJ article "The Dating Game." (Vol.25, No.4)


**Title: From Town to Gown**
**Author: john Kim**
**Page number(s): 6**

Once upon a time, New Haven high school students received special consideration from Yale. To strengthen relations between the university and the city, Yale set aside scholarships and places in each class for Elm City grads. But in the 1960s, New Havenites lost this preferential treatment in the application process. Today, few New Haven high school graduates enter Yale each year.

The university has often been criticized for not having enough city kids within its hallowed halls. With only four entering Yale this fall, city public school graduates will make up just a tiny percentage of a freshman class of more than 1,200. Both Yale and New Haven educators and activists would like the number of city kids in Yale's classrooms to increase. But no one is quite sure how.


In 1911, Yale offered two full-tuition scholarships to New Haven high school graduates based on merit and financial need. Within ten years the program grew to include 24 additional scholarships. Yale replaced this arrangement in 1958 with the City of New Haven Scholarship Program, under which six scholarships were awarded annually: one to a Hillhouse High School graduate, one to a Wilbur Cross High School graduate, and four to graduates of any of the secondary schools within New Haven's city limits. This scholarship program essentially created a quota system in which at least six New Haven students would be admitted annually.

In the 60s, Yale's scholarship policy changed. Financial need alone determined financial aid. Yale's Financial Aid Office applied the same funding formulas for all admitted candidates to Yale College. New Haven students lost their special scholarships and quotas.

Yale President A. Bartlett Giamatti (SY '60) re-instituted "scholarships" for New Havenites in 1979. Called the Sterling Scholarships, these awards are essentially merit-based, honorary designations. Sterling Scholars who do not qualify for financial aid receive no monetary award, while those who do qualify have the self-help portion of their package reduced. New Haven students, however, have not recovered their former numbers with these new scholarships.

Many educators and students support the present policy despite well-publicized criticism. Bert Saxon, in charge of the programs for gifted and talented students at Hillhouse High School, is content with the present relationship between his school and Yale. "Admitting through a quota system is a mistake. A system that allows flexibility is much better," he says. According to Saxon, Yale generally admits around ten New Haven students per year, with some years' admissions dipping to four or five, other years' reaching as high as fourteen or fifteen. Saxon does not want Yale to lower its standards in order to admit more New Haven applicants.

Some New Haven students at Yale concur. Orlando Cordero (BK '96), a graduate of New Haven's Career High School, insists that the "most qualified students" should get the spots. "New Haven students should not be treated any differently," he adds. "When I got in," says Wilbur Cross graduate Janna Wagner (JE '95), "I felt like I only got in because I'm from New Haven. The problem with quotas is that they create stigmas and stereotypes. No one wants to be known as the token New Haven Public School Kid."

Another Ivy League University has had success with scholarship quotas. The University of Pennsylvania, like Yale, is an affluent school in an impoverished neighborhood. Unlike Yale, though, Penn has an agreement with the city of Philadelphia to award at least $2 million worth of financial aid a year-the equivalent of 125 full tuition scholarships-to city high school graduates. The "Mayor's Scholarships" program requires that at least 125 Philadelphia students be enrolled at Penn at any given time. The school has no difficulty filling this quota. More than 300 Philadelphia students attended the school last year, and 113 more will enter as first-year students this year. William Schilling, Penn's Director of Undergraduate Financial Aid, says, "The money isn't capped at $2 million. The money given to Philly students exceeds $2 million every year."

But Yale would have difficulty finding enough candidates for 125 scholarships. Philadelphia has a larger population, and its school system produces greater numbers of




**Title: "high caliber" students than does New Haven's**
**Author: John Kim**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"high caliber" students than does New Haven's. Retiring 
Alderman Mike Morand (0-1) points out that "too few aca-
demic superstars" graduate from the New Haven school sys-
tem. "The number of students [from New Haven) who 
apply to competitive four-year colleges is extremely small," 
he says. "If people complain that Yale should let in more 
New Haven kids, well, the fact is that Yale probably couldn't 
admit more even if it wanted." 


Many agree that the key to increasing the number of 
New Havenites at ·Yale is not special scholarships and the 
quotas that they create. Educators and students alike prefer 
college preparation programs and heavy recruitment drives 
to help make Yale more accessible to New Haven students. 
Morand feels that Yale can help New Haven students to be 
better prepared for college. "New Haven SAT scores are very 
low," he comments. The average SAT score in the New 
Haven school district in 1991-92 was 327 Verbal, 367 Math, 
compared to the state average of 422 Verbal, 463 Math. 
Morand cites the SAT prep program started by law student 
Peter Gunn as a good example of what Yale can do to help 
prepare New Haven students for college. Hillhouse's Saxon 
praises Yale's student-run Branch tutoring program and the 
New Haven-Yale Teacher's Institute-a program in which 
Yale professors and New Haven teachers work together to 
develop high school curricula-as projects through which 
Yale has had P?sitive effects on the New Haven educational 
system. 


Some have suggested that Yale upgrade its recruiting 
efforts to attract the relatively small number of academic 
superstars that do graduate from New Haven high schools. 
Many feel that ,¥ale needs to tear down some of the obsta-
cles, real or perceived, that may discourage New Havenites 
from applying to and attending Yale. 


One problem, though, is simply geographic. "Kids want 
to leave town," says Director of Undergraduate Admissions 
Richard Shaw. Wagner admits that it is "difficult to go to 
school five minutes from your house." She knows students 
who could have gone to Yale, but chose schools like Stanford 
and Brown instead, just to leave the New Haven area. 


A more disturbing factor, however, is the perceived class 
and racial gap between Yale and New Haven. "Some stu-
dents are actually discouraged by their parents from applying 
to Yale," says Saxon. "Yale is seen as an elitist place for 
wealthy whites." Other students may also dissuade potential 
applicants. "'Don't go to Yale,' these kids will say, 'It'll turn 
you into a whjte person."' 


Yale's academic reputation may also discourage New 
Haven students from applying. There is a perception among 
some New Haven public school students that their high 
school education is inadequate preparation for Yale. "I 
always questioned how good my high school education 
Was--it loomed over me," says Wagner. "We didn't always 
have all the resources we needed. I once got a high school 
physics textbook a month after the course started." 


Students feel that aggressive recruitment drives could 
dispel many of the myths that scare away qualified students. 
Both Wagner and Cordero advocate sending current Yale 
students from New Haven back to their schools to bridge 
some of the "perception gaps." "People like me can be a big 
influence," says Cordero. Former New Haven students came 
to recruit at his high school when Cordero was a sophomore, 
and the visit helped to encourage him to apply to and come 
to Yale. ''I'd like to see more of that," he says. "People can 
relate to people from their own neighborhood and ethnic 
background." 


Yale already has a number of programs in place that have 
helped make its resources more available to New Haven stu-
dents. Both Cordero and Wagner attended Yale's New 
Haven and Area High School Program, which invites talent-
ed area high school students to attend classes at Yale free of 
charge. "I could do the work, I liked the professors, and the 
students were interesting," remembers Cordero, who took a 
conversational Spanish course as a high school junior, and 
attended Yale's Shafer Summer Scholarship program. This 
program allows students who have finished their junior year 
to take courses for eight weeks and receive college credit. 
Full financial aid is provided by the Shafer Family 
Scholarship, which was established primarily to help minori-
ty students from the New Haven area. Wagner and Cordero 
cite teachers and guidance counselors as the key people in 
identifying potential candidates for these programs and for 
future application to Yale. These faculty members provide 
the link between the university and high school students. 


Yale's special programs seem to have brought the univer-
siry closer to some New Haven students. "Students who 
come and apply to Yale usually have a previous connection 
to Yale," says Morand. "They've realized that Yale is accessi-
ble and has fabulous resources. It's not a cold, stone palace." 


To too many New Haven students, though, the cold, stone 
walls are still forbidding. 
IIIJ 
john /(jm, a junior in &rk~ky Co/kg~. is on th~ staff of TNJ .. 
THE NEw JouRNAL 7 


**Title: Where the Buck Stops**
**Author: Joshua Civin**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

orty years ago, the Yale Corporation was considering 
A. Whitney Griswold ('29) as a candidate for the uni-
versity presidency. During the heated debate, 
Corporation Fellow Wilmarth S. Lewis describe d the ideal 
qualifications for the university's leader: 

Yale's next president must first of all be a Yale man 
and a great scholar-also a social philosopher who 
has at his finger tips a solution of all world prob-
lems ... He must be a man of iron health and stami-
na, a young man-but also mature and full of wis-
dom ... As I have been talking, you have, I don't 
doubt, realized that there is only One who has 
most of these qualifications. But there is a question 
even about Him-Is God a Yale man? 

The standards were just as exacting during the 1992-93 
presidential search. Only time will tell whether Yale's new 
president, Richard Levin, proves equal to the challenges of 
presiding over this institution. Many speculate that the rig-
ors, obstacles, and demands of the job itself defy any mortal 
to surmount them. Presiding over 11 graduate schools and 
Yale College, 6,000 employees, 11 ,000 students, a $2.6 bil-
lion endowment, 225 buildings, and 13,000 acres, 
President Levin (GRD '74) undertakes a job defined by 
high expectations and much stress, at a time when the aver-
age university president endures only five years in the job. 


ormer Yale President A. Bartlett Giamatti (SY '60) 
once characterized his job as similar to that of a monk 
cloistered in a monastery facing 21st-century prob-
lems. Imagine a neighborhood association leader, a graduate 
student union organizer, a wealthy alumna, and a wizened 
professor all waiting expectantly outside a university presi-
dent's office for emergency appointments. When the p resi-
dent peeks outside into the reception room, a torrent of 
complaints and concerns besiege him. To whom does he 
respond first? 


Few of the voices clamoring for the president's ear are 
aware that they are just one voice among many. During his 
days as an undergraduate campus leader, Baltimore Mayor 
Kurt Schmoke (DC '71) recalls deliberating with then-
President Kingman Brewster about a proposed child day 
care center for university staff. From his current perspective 
as a Corporation member,Schmoke reflects, "We only 
thought of the need to provide child care, not whether it 
could be used as a potential subject of labor negotiation. 
Since we weren't asking for lots of money, we didn't under-
stand that Brewster had to consider what impact this would 
have on the collective bargaining power of the entire uni-
versity." 

"Power is essentially -a fiction, to 
which everyone subscribes. A nd if it is 
ascribed to you, even if you don 't 
have it, you do have it, 'said former 
President Giamatti. 


Trouble precipitates when groups feel their interests are 
even slightly threatened. Always anticipating a brewing 
controversy, presidents expend their efforts nursing the 
fragile egos of various segments of their communities. Each 
of these constituencies finds its way into the president's 
office only on specific occasions to address particular con-
cerns, which rarely involve sustained direct interaction. As a 
result, university presidents spend much of their work time 
reacting to the issues raised by this stream of supplicants 
that flows daily in and out of his office. "A friend called me 
to convey that he liked his new job as a university president, 
except for the interruptions," History professor Jaroslav 
Pelikan related. "He called back a few months later and said 
he had realized that the interruptions are the job." 


Nostalgic for the glory days of collegiate youth, alumni 
would seem a university president's most vociferous sup-
porters. "Yale graduates want to love Yale and are eager to 
accept a new president," said Eustace Theodore (PC '63), 
Executive Director of the Association of Yale Alumni. "But 
in exchange for their support they desire to talk to the per-
son in control of the university to assure themselves of who 
he is, as well as to feel a sense of participation. in shaping the 
university." But whenever change threatens sacred tradi-
tions, many alumni cling to their visions of old Yale. 


President Brewster used to liken his alumni visits to 
American soldiers' attempts at rural pacification in 
Vietnam. Everywhere he went, Yale graduates criticized his 
actions, especially co-education. 


If finding a balance between conflicting wants of past 
and present Yalies seems only mildly d ifficult, add to it 
mediating a temperamental faculty. Tenured faculty are the-
oretically responsible only to their department chairs and 
the president; in practice, many of them believe their status 
bestows upon them immunity from any sort of authority. 
Yale educators would agree that at no major university are 
the tenured faculty more powerful than at Yale. Pelikan 
described the typical attitude of Yale's faculty in The Idea of 
the University: A Reexamination. "The chief executive officer 
of a university," he quotes from a former university presi-
dent, "is the conductor in an orchestra made up entirely of 
composers." 


Unlike students, who spend a relatively short time on 
campus, faculyr members have an enduring interest in every 
nuance of presidential policy-making. "Faculty members 
have long and rather unforgiving memories; eventually they 
will get even," former Harvard Dean of Arts and Sciences 
and one-time candidate for the Yale Presidency Henry 
Rosovsky wrote in The University: An Owner's ManuaL "If 
you notice a lack of cooperation, recall that eight years ago 
you-quite reasonably-turned down this person's request 
for better parking or additional leave with pay." 


While students, alumni, and faculty choose, to some 
extent, to affiliate with Yale, residents of the city of New 
Haven maintain an ambiguous-and at times antagonis-
tic-relationship with the university and its president. For 
all those outside the Yale family, the president of the univer-
sity personifies Yale. The president's actions betray the 
aggregate attitudes of the university. Recognizing his influ-
ence in the sensitive town-gown relationship, Levin said, 
"We must take the issue of our environment very seriously. 
It is imperative that New Haven be an attractive area for 
students and faculty. But," he continued, "at the same time 
as we focus on the immediate area around the campus, Yale, 
with its network of connections, can be equally helpful to 
the entire city by finding resources, generating attention, 

and playing a national policy role." 


But State Representative Bill Dyson ('D-94) doubts 
Yale's commitment to the city. Addressing a group of Yale 
sophomores, he said, "Yale's mission is not the town; it is 
you and your parents. To accommodate you, Yale tolerates 
the town; but it would squash anybody it can to maintain 1 
its place as a world-class institution." 


f these high expectations and insistent demands 
on a Yale president from various constituents belie 
he extent of the actual powers he or she can employ 
in response. "The small operational decisions so far have 
often been rather gratifying," said Levin. "Dean [Richard] 
Brodhead brought to my attention that over 400 beds on 
Old Campus have broken pull-out drawers. I had the power 
to say, 'OK, let's fix them.' It wasn't a huge investment, but 
it will make a significant difference in people's initial 
impressions ofYale." 


The president's direct power, however, to say "OK, let's 
do it" generally proves limited. In every area another admin-
istrator plays point position. The provost is the chief aca-
demic officer, and the Vice President for Finance and 
Administration assumes primary responsibility over finan-
cial matters. The Corporation approves every major 
university decision. Deans preside over day-to-day 
matters in student life, and the tenured faculty 
reign over their own academic matters while 
being involved in other aspects of the uni-
versity. The president can only appoint-
and trust that his or her university offi-
cers will competently execute their 
tasks. 


Lacking direct influence 
over day-to-day affairs, the 
Yale president must ful-
fill a broader task. 
"According to Bart 
Giamatti, we're 
here to pre-
serve, 
transmit 

THE NEW jOURNAL 9 



**Title: The Yale Presidency: A Balancing Act**
**Author: Joshua Civin**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
,. r--------, 
,..... 
~~ 
I 
.p-.:~ ~ERr . .,,.,.. 
. ~~~ 
~ 
l1014 Dixwell Ave Hamden, CT I 
(less than 10 min. from Yale) I 
I $1.99 COMBINATION SUB I 
I ANDSODATOGOONLY I 
._ _______ .!!1!J 
~ La Bomboniera -, 
Gift & Bridal Boutique 
The Unique Way To Plan That 
Special Wedding Occasion 
Featuring: 
• Party Favors 
• Wedding Gowns 
• Rentals 
• Rower Girls Dresses 
• Printed Ribbons 
• Bridal Headpieces 
• Invitations 
•China, Crystal 
&MuchMore 
1014 Dixwell Avenue• Hamden 
~5-1686•562-8187•287-9618 ~ 
behind 
Sterling Library 
Welcome Back 
Yale students! 
And a 
Special Welcome to 
the Class of '97! 
10 TH£ N£:w jOURNAL
and expand humanity's store of 
knowledge," said Levin. "A president 
has the complicated task of keeping 
the university focused on this principal 
mission and of facilitating its accom-
plishment through securing funds, set-
ting institutiona 
policies, and artic-
ulating this mis-
sion to the out-
side 
world." 

Indeed, the presi-
dent is the on 
university official 
charged to fathom 
the future 
prepare for it. 
Counties 
rushed appoint 
ments with con 
stituencies pre 
senting compet 
ing claims 
leaves a universi. 
president muc 
time to ponde 
the 
long-term. 
Recognizing this, 
modest changes, calls for more drastic 
remedies persist. Surprisingly, in a 
country where bureaucracy is such a 
dirty word, many suggest that more 
high-level bureaucracy is just what 
Yale needs. Former Yale secretary and 
current president g 
of 
Gaylord -~ 
Hospital Henry.£ 
Chauncey (DC ~ 
'57) points out, :g 
.. .,.. 
h d . 
Q. 
100 muc 
ec1- 'o 
on-making 
is~ 
left at the door of o 
president. l 
irty years ago, 1 
n the institu- ~ 
tion was smaller, ~ 
president ~ 
make all of .S 
these decisions, § 
but today there j 
are just too many ~ 
and they are too s 
l. 
d" h 
0 
comp tcate , 
e if 
Pelikan suggested President Levin faces an array of challenges 
· 
"More deci-
ons must be 
made at lower 
levels. In 
small hospital of 
500 employees 
an 
antidote. as he assumes his new post. 
"Presidents need 
to set aside a period of four hours 
every so often and read and reflect on 
Aristotle," he said, breaking int·o a 
Cheshire Cat grin. "If not, they will 
quickly get stifled with sclerosis of the 
mind." 

However, Dartmouth President 
James Freedman wonders if any reju-
venation methods are sufficient. "The 
constant pressure of events, the lack of 
privacy, the lack of free time, the 
number of constituencies, and the 
general intensiry of the job tends to 
rub presidents raw," he explained. 
"What is frightening is how much I 
draw primarily on the intellectual cap-
ital I'd deposited in the past, before I 
assumed this job." 

Although a recent report of a 
committee appointed to study Yale's 
governance system proposed only 
that I run, I have more help than the 
president of Yale." 

To grease the decision-making 
gears, some suggest appointing a Dean 
of Arts and Sciences. At Harvard, the 
Dean of Arts and Sciences is one of a 
layer of deans inserted between the 
president and faculty, making the 
overall system more decentralized 
than Yale's. Former Harvard Dean 
Rosovsky contrasted the roles of presi-
dent and dean in the Harvard system. 
"A president views the university from 
an Olympian perspective," he wrote. 
"He stands on the shoulders of the 
deans peering into the distance, think-
ing of new challenges in spans of 
years ... I see myself as a field comman-
der, ducking bullets from unexpected 
directions." 

Levin contends that something is 


--- Page 11 ---

lost when the dichotomy between 
field commander and Olympian 
becomes too distinct. "At Harvard," 
he said, "there is no sense of center. 
The president is out of the loop, up in 
the ephemeral heights without a lot of 
contact down in the classrooms and 
faculty meetings. Being tied into 
undergraduate life lends vitality." But 
it is this struggle to maintain a dual 
perspective-a balance between 
thinking from a short-term versus a 
long-term perspective-
that consis-
tently proves a challenge to even the 
most talented Yale presidents. 

While inserting more layers of 
bureaucracy jnto a university adminis-
tration may be more efficient, it 
diminishes open access to the presi-
dent. Elevating to power a new level 
of bureaucrats potentially threatens 
the power of those presently close to 
the president, especially the graduate 
school deans. Former Dean ofTufts 
University School of Medicine Henry 
Banks explains, "From the deans' 
point of view, it is far preferable to go 
directly to the president, rather than 
through ~ complicated maze of 
administrative hierarchy." 

But to"characterize Yale as a cen-
tralized university in need of decen-
tralization is to overlook the nuances 
ofYale's governance system. Compare, 
for instance, Harvard's and Yale's fac-
ulty management and hiring practices. 
The president of Harvard is intimately 
involved in the mechanics of tenuring 
faculty members, playing an involved 
role in all ad hoc review committees, 
while the president ofYale contributes 
not much more besides an official 
sign-off power. 

But Yale faculty members love 
their departmental and individual 
autonomy. "One of the very satisfying 
things here is that the senior faculty 
have the feeling that they are self-
managers as well as teachers," said for-
mer Dean of Yale College Georges 
May. "This perception of participa-
tion is very precious. It gives us soli-
SEPTEMBER 3· 1993 
clarity with the institution." 

Yale's system is centralized only in 
that responsibility for all administra-
tive decisions ultimately rests with the 
President himself; therefore, all eyes 
watch his actions and all voices try to 
appeal to him. While this perception 
of power remains centralized in the 
'office of the president, that power has 
actually been diluted among many 
other positions. Pelikan views Yale's 
administration as neither a centralized 
nor a decentralized system, but rather 
as an integral one attempting to 
involve as broad a range of constituen-
cies as possible. 

T
he convoluted centralization-
versus-decentralization argu-
ment can be unraveled only by 
delving into the yore of old Yale. The 
epitome of a "strong presidency" 
involved in all aspects of university life 
goes back to Reverend Thomas Clap's 
administration. Originating the title 
"President," Clap led the university in 
the mid-eighteenth century. He per-
suaded the trustees to accept his 
sweeping language that drastically 
increased the university leader's pow-
ers: 

The Executive Power of the 
College is principally in the 
President, who hath the 
power to govern the College 
and every student thereo£ 

Ruling the campus with an iron fist, 
Clap was reluctant even to consider 
student grievance petitions. 

Clap's authoritarianism, though, 
was largely a response to his predeces-
sors' lack of power .. The original uni-
versity founders stipulated that the 
university leader, called the rector, 
should be responsible only for 
" instru~ting and ordering the School." 
Everything else remained the province 
of the trustees. So circumscribed were 
the rector's duties that Reverend 
Samuel Andrew, the second to hold 


**Two Yalies for Cheers**
**Author: Suzanne Kim**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
~wo Yalies for 
Suzanne Kim 
b Long (TC '87) and Dan Staley (BK '85) never 
eld much sacred. When Staley and Long were 
utting on their first play at Yale, Staley broke the 
Branford piano in an attempt to move it. Needless to say, he 
met with a good deal of anger from the master. As the editor 
of the Trumbulletin his junior year, Long printed one stu-
dent's mock suggestion that the master and his wife embez-
zle a $1,500 donation to the college to purchase new 
wardrobes. "They interpreted it as a slam against their pre-
sent wardrobe," recalls Long in mock innocence. 

Now, nearly ten years later, the pair has traveled from 
New Haven to Hollywood, where they now stretch their 
irreverent humor to the limit in television writing. Serving 
four seasons on Cheers, first as staff writers and later as co-
executive producers, Staley and Long, 30 and 28 years old, 
respectively, are now consulting for the new CBS sitcom Big 
~we Dave's which premiered on August 9 to mixed reviews. 

Coming from Yale, Staley and Long constantly face the 
conflict between Ivy League intellectualism and the notion 
of mass culture.a Ia television. Long says, "The hard thing 
for me is that when you tell people who are sort of. East 
Coast inteQectuals that you write for television, they imme-
diately think, 'Why are you destroying our culture?'" 

Long,"however, maintains that his is honest, legitimate 
work. "When we would sit around and come up with a joke, 
and I would laugh, I would think, 'Well, I'm laughing, so 
maybe I'm a complete schmuck or a philistine,"' he says with 
a shrug. "'Maybe I'm on the low end of the mass culture 
scale, but if so, at least I'm being honest. Where you run into 
trouble-and this happens with over-educated people-is 
that they sort of sit in a room and say, 'Well, I don't think it's 
very funny, but the people will; the little underlings some-
where in Iowa will think it's hilarious.' 

"You find a lot of Ivy League, a lot of Yale, kids who 
come here, who have never been really funny in their lives, 
but who are kind of smart, and write for some. piece of shit 
show that's terrible, and they don't really care, because 'it's 
not for me,"' says Long. "I think that's selling out." Long 
gestures vehemently. 

Staley criticizes the predictable sentimentality of much 
of television writing, which Cheers rejected with its irreverent 
humor. "Rob and I are going to have a problem at some 
point because most TV shows have what's called a 'moment' 
towards the end, where the characters hug and say, 'I love 
you, Mommy.' Cheers was one of the few shows that didn't 
SEPTEMBER 3• 1993 
have one of those 'moments,"' says Staley. "It's very difficult 
for both of us to write that kind of thing." 

Staley characterizes their brand of humor as harsher 
than the norm. "We tend to concentrate more on the hard 
jokes .. .laugh, laugh, laugh all the way through. We never did 
shows about issues. We never did shows that ended up with 
some schmaltzy embrace between the characters." 

Long interrupts: "Which is actually quite rare in televi-
. .. 
s10n. 

W:
en speaking about their partnership, though, 
Long and Staley approach the sentimentality that 
they eschew in their writing. Staley, a new father, 
sits on a white wooden-framed couch in their cool bungalow 
office. Long sits to the right in a matching chair, sipping his 
bottled water. Most of the time one will listen attentively 
while the other speaks, but every so often either Long or 
Staley will chime in to affirm his partner's thought. 

"Some teams tend to divide the work, where one guy 
will write one scene, and the other will write another, but we 
tend to work directly with each other all the way through," 
says Staley. "Both of us are just funnier and come up with 
better stuff together-than we 
would sitting down and 
writing the stuff by our-
selves. And you kind of 
. 
' 
Cheers may be over, but Dan Staky (BK '85) enjoys spending 
the extra time with his newborn daughter. 
THE NEw JouRNAL 13 


---

--- Page 14 ---

feed off each other and spark 
each other, and that usually ends 
up leading to a funnier product." 

The two have developed a 
rapport. "We've been doing this 
for so long that we kind of have 
a shorthand. We've been writing 
together for ten years," says 
Staley. 

Rob Long (TC 'l37) has formed tkfinite opinions about 
television during his stint in Hollywood. 
not as exotic as you might think," 
says Staley. "That's the kind of 
nice thing about TV; there were 
people on our writing staff who 
were high school dropouts, and 
there were people with Ivy League 
degrees, and it doesn't really make 
a difference, as long as you have 
the stuff, which is the writing tal-
em. , 

T
he partnership between 
Long and Staley arose when 
up, projecting self-assurance. He took a 
Long was a freshman, and 
copywriting test given by the advertis-
Staley was a junior. The two both per-. 
ing agency Jay Walter Thompson and 
formed in a production of Woody 
printed in the New York Times. The 
Allen's Don't Drink the ~ter. · They 
copy. test consisted of ten creative writ-
then wrote a play Our Son Who Went 
ing assignments. "They got thousands 
Mad, which they produced soon after 
of entries and hired about five or six of 
in the Branford Dramat. Later they 
us. We were forever known after that as 
wrote The Way Out. The two sat in 
the 'copy test kids.' It was just an 
Long's room in Durfee in front of his 
experiment on their part to try to bring 
typewriter creating their first piece as 
in some people who wouldn't ordinari-
partners. "We would sit there and 
ly go into advertising," says Staley. "It 
write these little sketches to crack each 
was very unusual. It was the kind of 
other up," says Long. 

Long's and Staley's dream to write 
80s because they had a lot of money 
in Hollywood was always unarticulat-
and they were spending it freely." 

ed. "I guess it was sort of easy to be in 
Meanwhile, Long returned to 
denial of the ambition. It's sometimes 
Andover, his alma mater, to teach 
almost better, if what you want to do is 
English. He then moved to Los 
move to Hollywood and write TV 
Angeles to attend UCLA film school. 

movies, it's better not to think about 
Three years later, Long and Staley 
it," says Long. "The more you think 
decided to pursue their never-declared 
about it, the scarier it gets." 

goal. "It was just a matter of finding 
According to Long, his Yale educa-
the right time to do it," says Staley. 
tion engendered a sense of arrogance 
"We were hired within a month or a 
that has worked both for and against 
month-and-a-half of my arriving in 
him. "What it does is it broadens your 
[Los Angeles]. I was really expecting to 
horizons. It does give you a sense of 
have to struggle along for a year or so. 
possibilities. And there's useful arro-
But our scripts met with favorable 
gance you get from that," he says. 
responses and people seemed to like us. 
"The downside is that you don't think 
I guess we were lucky, and the scripts 
the rules apply to you. So you don't see 
were good." 

Being Yale graduates has neither 
the limitations, when maybe you 
helped nor hindered their career. 
should." 

'There tend to be more people from 
The past ten years of writing have 
Ivy League backgrounds than you 
not been consecutive. Upon graduat-
would think. David Moyen, who was 
ing, Staley entered the advertising busi-
working on the show since the begin-
ness with about the same ease that he 
ning, is from Yale. And Jimmy 
entered Hollywood. As he describes his 
Burrows (DRA '65), our director, went 
experience in the business, he leans 
back on the sofa with one arm propped 
to the Yale School of Drama. So we're 
14 THE NEW jouRNAL 



--- Page 15 ---

"The bad news is," interjects 
Long a bit facetiously, "it's often hard 
to tell." 

L
ong's Yale education left him 
well-versed in mass culture stud-
ies. Working in television, he.1 
holds a firm opinion as to where it fits ·. 
into the social scheme. "If TV were . 
pure entertainment and never attempt-
ed to be anything other than entertain-
ment, I think people would watch 
maybe one hour a nigh~," says Long. 
"But it has this obsessive, narcotizing 
effect, and notice all these TV shows: 
even the really bad ones have a little 
moral at the end. 

"What could be more pious than 
M1V? Every two hours, there's a mes-
sage," he says. "During the election, it 
was impossible to watch. It was like, 
'You goita vote, man!' LL Cool J telling 
you to vote. Just please, shut up and 
play a video. It's not any more legiti-
mate." 

Long sees himself as purely an 
entertainer, nor.an educator. According 
to him, the view 'tfiat television is a 
teaching tool oversimplifies the notion 
of education. "The lesson of Sesame 
Smet is that it's easy," he says, ridicule 
seeping through his voice. "That all 
you have to do is watch it. And num-
bers add themselves, and letters speak, 
and everything is puppets, and it's real-
ly easy, and then you sing a song. Not 
true. Things are difficult, and they 
take time to plow through." 

However, Long censures not only 
the industry itself but also its intellec-
tual critics. "I would be happier if I 
could find at least one American 
SEPTEMBE.Il 3· 1993 

Studies professor, who, when he or she 
talks about mass culture and popular 
culture, wasn't on the way to making a 
Marxist or socialist argument," says 
Long. 

"I'd be a lot more comfortable 
with that ifl didn't already know where 
their conclusion was. You already know 
that the conclusion is that it's designed 
to pacify the masses with these weird 
spectacles, so they won't notice whatev-
er terrible thing the government's 
doing today. 

"My glib answer to that is that 
American Studies professors have 
invented a whole way of looking at 
popular culture, so that they can go to 
Arnold Schwarzenegger movies and 
not feel guilty about it. They can go 
and say, 'Well, I can go back and study 
it,"' says Long. 

R:
ght now, Long and Staley have 
no plans to go back and study 
nything. From the moment 
they left Xale, talent and luck propelled 
them into quick success. The pair 
could never write a sitcom about their 
·transition from film school standout 
and "copy {est kid" to television execu-
tives. Thelesson would be too much 
like that of s~sam~ Strut-"that it's 
easy," in Long's words. Every episode 
would end with a pat "moment"-
their first script, their first agent, their 
first contract, even Staley's first baby. 

It's difficult to fault them for their 
success. 

They've worked 
hard. 

Hollywood has been good to them . . 
But success hasn't come so easily for 
many in their audience. It's under-
standable that some might crave the 
sentimentality that Long and Staley 
decry. With the close of Chen-s, the pair 
faces an uncertain future. They must 
now find a new home for their hard-
knocks humor. Will anyone answer the 
door? 

IIIJ 
Suzann~ IGm, a sophomore in Saybrook 
Co/kg~. is on th~ staff of TN]. 
SEPTEMBEJt 3·1993 

**Title: Machu Picchu and the Dream of Discovery**
**Author: Jose Manuel Tesoro**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
~
I
Jose Manuel Tesoro
D
iscovery was a hobby, and "explorer" a legitimate
occupation in the early years of this century. It was
an age when Peary and Cook battled over who had
first reached the North Pole, as foreigners swarmed into
Central Asia's trackless Taklamakan Desert in search of
buried treasure on the old Silk Road. Travelers brought back
tales of forgotten cultures and glorious riches; the accounts
of their travels appeared in magazin.es under tides like
"Adventuring Along the Upper Orinoco" or "With the
Dayaks of Borneo." It was an era that bred self-styled heroes,
who spun tales redolent with danger and mystery to mask
trying and often pedestrian treks through the backwaters of
the world. It was a time whe~ the world was a stage and the
world's peoples the backdrop against which Americans and
Europeans played out the drama of discovery, casting them-
selves as conquistadors, not of cultures but of the unmapped
globe.

It was this age that brought H iram Bingham (B.A.
1898), Yale professor and leader of the Yale Peruvian
Expedition, to the hidden reaches of Peru in the late summer
of 1911. On his journey through the backlands of the Andes
he would discover the most famous ancient site in the
Americas-Machu Picchu, "Lost City of the Incas." This
complex of stone terraces and temples that Bingham stum-
bled upon, nesded on a ridge high above the jungle and roar-
ing waters of the Urubamba River, possessed a visual power
few places on Earth could ever match. The story of Hiram
Bingham's penetration of the forbidding Andes has come to
symbolize the triumph and romance-as well as the darker
side--of early scientific exploration.

Thirty-six years old, blond, over six feet tall, and always
dressed smartly-at least in photographs from the expedi-
tion-in a pith helmet or a fedora, jodhpurs, and calf-length
boots, Bingham looked every bit the gentleman explorer.
Educated at Andover, Yale, and Harvard, and married to an
heiress to the Tiffany fortune, he had the credentials of an
American aristocrat. Bingham came from famous stock. He
was third in a line of American pioneers that all bore the
name of Hiram Bingham. Bingham's grandfather had led the
first mission to Hawaii and had engineered the island
monarchy's transitionto a Christian nation-state, while
Bingham's father, Hiram Jr., had preached in the Gilbert
Islands in Micronesia and gave the islands' inhabitants a
Gilbenese translation of the Bible. Bingham began his adult
life intending to follow in the track of his missionary fathers,
but a life of piety and self-denial did not suit his native rest-
16 Tm: NEW jOURNAL


---

: and the Dream of Discovery
lessness and unquenchable curiosity. Where his forbears had
made their name in the spread of religion, Bingham decided
to make his in the new faith of science.

Bingham found himself slipping into one role after
another, searching for some promise of fame. After a brief,
unhappy stint as pastor of a mission in Honolulu, Bingham
took up graduate ·studies at Berkeley and at Harvard. He
maneuvered himself into the job of "Curator of Latin
American History and Literature" at Harvard, a position
which allowed him to travel to South America on the pretext
of searching for books. Bingham, though, had more than
books on his mind. In South America, he embarked on his
first journey of exploration: an expedition across Venezuela
and Colombia in the
---------------------------------, otsteps of Simon
ivar, the great
American lib-
r. Bingham later
a job as a lee-
South
zn
~1lt1.1'~1ca. he listed his
pation
as
"Explorer."


Bingham want-
ed to return to South
America to conduct
further travels-any
country would do.
--
His suggested expedition to Peru, however, interested
prospective sponsors most. He was able to scrape together
enough money from his personal funds, Yale University, and
wealthy Yale schoolmates like Edward S. Harkness to put
together an expedition of magnificent scope.

As director of the Yale Peruvian Expedition, Bingham
set out with great ambitions: the ascent of Mt. Coropuna,
SEPTEMBER 3· 1993

then thought to be the highest mountain in South Amer ca;
the exploration of uncharted waterways and lakes of P ru;
and the search for forgotten Inca ruins in the dense and mys-
terious province of Vileabamba. Ta connect the far-flung
areas of his exploration, he proposed to map the 73rd
Meridian, which links the mountains of southern Peru with
Coropuna near the Pacific coast.

B
ingham had come to Peru in search of a legend, a lost
city that was one of the last refuges of the once-great
Inca empire. After the Spanish conquistadors took
over Peru in 1532, Francisco Pizarro installed Manco Inca as
his puppet on the Inca throne. Manco Inca, however; proved
an unwilling vassal and soon laid siege to Cuzco and even
Lima itself. The Spanish armies forced Manco Inca and his
armies to flee Cuzco into Vileabamba, a rugged province
northwest of Cuzco. It was here in Vileabamba that Manco
Inca built Vitcos, the hidden capital of the Inca empire, a
city rumored to be bursting with gold. Somewhere in the
jungles of Vileabamba, Hiram Bingham knew, a losi: city
slept, waiting for the day when a new conquistador would
awakeQ it.

Bingham sailed from Lima to a port on the southern
coast and then boarded a train headed into the mountains of
Peru, where Cuzco, the center of the old Inca empire, await-
ed. In Cuzco, Bingham visited an old friend, an American
with a penchant for Inca ruins whom he had met on an ear-
lier visit to Peru-Albert Giesecke, the young rector of the
University of Cuzco. Giesecke mentioned to Bingham a trip
he had taken along the Urubamba River in Vileabamba a
few months before Bingham's arrival. Giesecke had stopped
at a small inn at a bend in the river, in a place called Mandor
Pampa, where the proprietor, Melchor Arteaga, offered to
show him some good ruins on top of a ridge nearby. Since
Giesecke was traveling in the rainy season, Arteaga told him
it might be be.tter if he returned in the drier months.

Bingham had luckily shown up during Peru's dry season, and
Giesecke decided to pass along this "tip" to his friend, the
explorer.

While Bingham made preparations in Cuzco, the expe-
dition specialists began the various tasks they had gone to
Peru to accomplish. An advance party of the expedition doc-
tor, William Erving (B.A. 1898), and the group topogra-
pher, Kai Hendricksen, met Bingham with equipment and
supplies for the journey ahead. Yale colleagues Isaiah
Bowman (GRD '09) and Harry Ward Foote had made the
difficult journey with Bingham from New Haven to 'Cuzco.
Herman L. Tucker, a young drifter who had some moun-
tain-climbing experience, came along to assist in the ascent
T HE NEw JouRNAL 17



of Corupu!la. The last member of the
expedition, a Yale undergraduate by
the name of Paul Baxter Lanius ('12S)
became Bingham's assistant. Lanius'
knowledge of Spanish proved useful,
since the other members of the Yale
Peruvian
Expedition-Bingham
included-spoke little more than a
smattering of Spanish. None knew ter-
ribly much about the Incas or about
Peru, but together they gave Bingham's
fantastic and maybe foolhardy quest
the semblance of a scientific endeavor.

0
ne incident in Cuzco is indica-
tive of Bingham's skill at sell-
ing himself and his expedition
and his not-as-well-developed facility
with science. Bingham and Foote,
while strolling in the city's outskirts,
found some ashes, bones, and pottery.
shards embedded in a newly cut gulch.
From their position under 80 feet of
gravel and stones deposited by glaciers,
Bingham concluded that the presum-
ably human bones must have been at
least ·30,000 years old. "You can easily
im·agine," he wrote to his wife with
glee, "how pleased I am to have actual-
ly discovered the bones myself"
(A second Yale expedition to the
area in 1912, however, discovered to
Bingham's chagrin that the "Cuzco
bones" resembled the remains of cattle
slaughtered in Cuzco meat markets.)

This eventual disappointment, of
course, was still unknown to Bingham
in 1911, as he gathered the last of his
mules and supplies for the trek into old
Inca territory. Flushed with the excite-
ment of his first major "discovery,"
Bingham left Cuzco on July 19, 1911.
He had decided to split up the expedi-
tion into three parties that would strike
north into Vileabamba first, along the
Urubamba River, before tackling the
southern route along the 73rd
Meridian to Mt. Corupuna. While his
companions took on the cartographic
responsibilites of the expedition,
Bingham and Foote would take the
more exciting journey: the exploration
r8 THE NEw JouRNAL



of Inca ruins along r
the Urubamba.~
-~-
_
So
into
this
· ·
unmapped, wild, and 7,..
possibly dangerous "-''\
territory Bingham, f/J..~';
F
d
~"- ·
oote, an an army~~
sergeant
named ~a;;~
Carrasco assigned to ;;;::;,
escort the party trav- ~
eled
with
their ~
....
porters from one old ~
Inca
fortr~ss
to ~~
another.
Bmgham nee~
took care to photo- . • .... :
graph the extraordi- "~-·
nary ruins he and ~_: ·
Foote encountered ... f!< ••
Near the village of o_F~· \
Toro_ntoy, B~ngham, dP. I
tc;> h1s surpnse, met .. _ .. ; J
up·
again
with ht I~
Hendricksen
and ·••-: !
Tucker. They . had ~
·""
attempted to ford the •,.
Urubamba to map
the area on the oppo-
...........
site side, but one of .: ·::~
their young Indian • ....
porters had slipped
.• ~
Bingham could have been the model for Indiana jones.
making the crossing.
· · A-,-..., ~
- .. ~(
(~./-, '('''"'~"~ /, .. ~..}
The bohy had tdumbledd
,
. ~\:~'~":-.
"\\'\:
'
\Co~~
!!.~~c;~an~ayu~
·~
into t e rapi s, an
\
~" -~./ / "/"
- (~
al
J. rJ()·liiA _.
·· . . .... \
-~ , , ,\..\::)'\ \•
//" --'JYv
was swept away, ong
' '
with some of their surveying equip-
ment. Both Hendricksen and Foote
recounted this incident with great con-
cern in their journals, but Bingham,
oddly, did not mention it at all.

On July 23, 1911, Bingham
reached Mandor Pampa, where
Melchor Arteaga offered Bingham the
same invitation he had extended to
Albert Giesecke months before--to see
ruins high up above the river, beside a
mountain named Huayna Picchu, on a
ridge Arteaga called "Machu Picchu."

The next morning dawned cold
and damp, as a light drizzle came down
from the skies above the Urubamba
canyon to wet the heads of Bingham
and his crew. Arteaga, "an Indian
rather better than average" as Bingham
put it, seemed less enthusiastic about
taking his guests up the ridge in the
rain. A pledge of a silver dollar for his
pains convinced Arteaga to lead
Bingham and Carrasco up to the ruins.
Bingham's companions elected to
remain behind.

The three men walked along a
road for about 45 minutes, before
heading through the undergrowth to
the edge of the Urubamba River to a
perilously narrow log bridge that was
the only way to cross the rapids.
Having forded the river, they began to
climb a steep incline up to the top of
the ridge that rose above the
Urubamba. After an hour-and-a-half,



**Machu Picchu: A Discovery Overshadowed**
**Author: Jose Manuel Torres**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
they reached the summit, where they 
found a small hut and a few Indian 
families who farmed these upper reach-
es. Arteaga told Bingham that he want-
ed to stay and chat with the farmers, so 
a boy was sent to accompany Bingham 
and Carrasco to the ruins. 


As they rounded a promontory, 
Bingham· caught sight of a fabulous 
spectacle. Clear in the midday sun, a 
flight of stone terraces ranged up the 
mountainside, outlined against the 
dark river canyon below. Buildings of 
hewn stone stood, crumbling, over-
grown, yet still majestic, in front of a 
conical, cloud-shrouded mountain that 
marked the end of the ridge. A grand, 
ruined city lay spread out before him. 
Thrust out over a bend in the 
Urubamba, Machu Picchu seemed to 
float above the canyon, surrounded on 
three sides by mountains and air. 


Bingham wandered around the 
superb ruins, avoiding the jungle 
growth that blanketed the site as he 
photographed structures and jotted in 
his notebook. On one of the ruined 
walls, he noticed the words "Lizarraga 
1902" scrawled in charcoal, indicating 
that someone other than Arteaga and 
the Indians h'ad been there before him. 
The sitoi although blessed with a 
splendid view and a lovely location, 
matched none of the clues a historian 
in Lima had given Bingham to help 
him identify the last Inca capital. 
Machu Picchu was obviously not 
Vitcos, the lost city, but simply one of 
the many Inca ruins Bingham had 
passed and photographed on his way 
down the Urubamba. After taking a 
few more pictures and sketching a 
rough map, Bingham descended, 
returned to the camp, and, the next 
day, continued his search for the last 
Inca capital. A few weeks later, almost 
as an afterthought, Bingham asked 
Tucker and Lanius to return to Machu 
Picchu to clear and map the site. 


Bingham seemed so thirsty for recogni-
tion that he acted as if any stone he 
tripped over in Peru, or any bone he 
picked up, was somehow the most 
important archaeological find of the 
century. But when he found Machu 
Picchu, the city that would make his 
name world-famous, he passed it by. 
Bingham asked, 
"Would anyone believe 
what I had found?" 


He did find Vitcos in the end, as well 
as another major Inca site further up 
the Urubamba. In six months of travel 
and exploration, he completed all the 
expedition's objectives, from the ascent 
of Coropuna to the survey of the 73rd 
Meridian. 


But, upon his return, 
Bingham continued to expound on the 
"Cuzco bones," convinced that they 
were his most momentous find. He 
devoted over two pages in his prelimi- . 
nary report to the bones and only seven 
lines to Machu Picchu. 


But Machu Piq:hu was the discov-
ery that wo'iild claim the popular 
imagination. Breathtaking pic-
tures of the city and the surrounding 
landscape accompanied Bingham's arti-
cles, which appeared in Harpers 
Monthly and National Geographic. The 
sheer romance of Bingham's tale of dis-
covery, coupled with the striking beau-
ty of the place, made Machu Picchu 
memorable. Bingham himself thanked 
his fortune at having the photographic 
proof of his adventure. "Would anyone 
believe what I had found?" he wrote in 
his 1948 book, Lost City of the Incas, 
",Fortunately, in this land where accura-
cy in reporting what one has seen is not 
a prevailing characteristic, I had a good 
camera and the sun was shining." 


Once he caught on to Machu 
Picchu's popularity, Bingham lost no 
time in recasting himself in the role of 
"The Great Explorer." The frontispiece 
of Inca Land, a book he published in 
1922 for popular consumption, is a 
photograph showing Bingham stand-
ing on ·a jungle path, his back to the 
camera, gazing at the misty mountains 
looming beyond. His discovery became 
fraught with destiny. "It has been my 
lot to cross bleak Andean passes," 
Bingham wrote in Inca Land, "as well 
as to wend my way through gigantic 
canyons into the dense jungles of the 
Amazon Basin." 


He allowed himself greater embel-
lishments in the subsequent retellings 
of the journey. What was once an ordi-
nary hike up the mountainside became 
an epic trek through a mysterious land. 
"Above all," he wrote in Lost City of the 
Incas, "there is the fascination of find-
ing here and there, under swaying 
vines, or perched on top of a beetling 
crag, the rugged masonry of a bygone 
race." 


As if to make up for his initial dis-
regard for Machu Picchu, Bingham. 
even took pains to assign the city much 
greater importance in Inca history than 
it merited, augmenting the fame of the 
city as well as his own. Bingham drew 
on a questionable myth about the ori-
gin of the Incas in order to "prove" that 
he had found the legendary first capital 
of the Inca empire. Present-day archae-
ologists, however, have concluded that 
Machu Picchu was simply a resort 
town where Inca officials found refuge 
from their responsibilities in Cuzco. 
The placement of Machu Picchu on a 
picturesque ridge was not accidental; 
the Inca builders had intentionally 
sought a pleasant spot on which to 
build their retreat. 


Bingham's most serious emenda-
tion lay in his sole claim as the 
discoverer of the site. After his 
first visit to the city, where he saw a 
name and date literally written on the 
wall, Bingham had jotted down in his 
journal, "Agustin Lizarraga is the dis-
coverer of Machu Picchu." In Inca 
Land, Bingham continued to credit 
Lizarraga, a farmer in the hills below 
Machu Picchu. But by his 1930 report 
to fellow scholars on his excavations at 
the site Bingham had dubbed Lizarraga 
a mere "treasure-hunter," immediately 
discounting 
the 
legitimacy of 
Lizarraga's presence at the site. By Lost 
City of the Incas in 1948, Lizarraga's 
name no longer appeared, and, in the 
introduction to the book, Bingham 
declared, "I found it." 


Although other independent 
sources in Cuzco, like Bingham's friend 
Albert Giesecke, had pointed the way 
to Machu Picchu, Bingham's writings 
made it seem as if his discovery was 
simply splendid serendipity. As early as 
1916, Bingham wrote of Machu 
Picchu that, "with the exception of a 
few local Indians, no one in Peru was 
aware of its existence." 


Throughout Bingham's fabulous 
journey, "Indians" hover in the back-
ground as supporting characters, as 
Bingham's guides, porters, interpreters, 
or hosts. In many of Bingham's pic-
tures, one can see 
them standing sui:. 
lenly next to .the 
huge 
stonework 
doors or crumbling 
walls their· ancestors, 
the Incas, built. 
Bingham liked to 
include people to 
add human interest 
and to provide scale 
to the buildings, as 
archaeologists pho-
tograph 
pennies 
beside arrowheads 
to give an idea of 
relative 
size. 


Bingham's son and 
biographer, Alfred 
Bingham, in his 
retelling of the 
young 
Peruvian 
porter's death, sug-
gests that perhaps 


Bingham often used the phrase 
"bygone race" to refer to the Incas, as if 
the native Peruvians he met on his trav-
els were not descended from those 
Incas. Perhaps he could not in his 
mind connect the extreme poverty and 
adversity of the Peruvians of his present 
with the riches and grandeur of the 
Incas of the past. Bingham always 
remained suspicious of his Peruvian 
companions' dedication to truth. "In 
this country," he wrote, "one can never 
, tell whether a report is worthy of cre-
dence." 


Bingham owed the inhabitants of 
Peru frtuch, although, after his discov-
ery of Machu Picchu, his public recog-
nition of the extent of their and 
Giesecke's, Lizarraga's, and Arteaga's 
contribution grew smaller as his own 
fame expanded. It began to seem that, 
even for Bingham, Peru still remained 
a land where accuracy in reporting was 
indeed not an expected characteristic. 


Bingham argued in a 1922 letter 
that he had discovered Machu 
Picchu in the same sense that 
Columbus 
discovered 
America. 
Although Norse sailors and French 
fishermen had undoubtedly visited 
America before Columbus did, 
Bingham wrote, "It was Columbus 
who had introduced America to the 
civilized world." It was Bingham who 
had brought Machu Picchu out of the 
jungle -into the world's gaze, not those 
who had guided him to Machu 
Picchu. They, the supporting charac-
ters, re~eded into the wings as the 
great explorer Hiram Bingham took 
center slage, in the light of worldwide 
f.une. 


Hiram Bingham represented not 
just the brilliance of an age, but also 
some of its darker impulses. Explorers 
had seen so much and had been to so 
many places, yet their own image of 
themselves grew to fill their vision and 
blocked out the truth of their travels. 
Yet "The Great Explorer" continues to 
exert a hold on the collective imagina-
tion. Many would have done as Bingham did, for the explorer inhabits 
a singular location in cultural memo-
ry: guilty of much-yet still a hero . .. 
jose Manuel T~ro, a smwr in jonathan 
EJwartls Co/J~g~. is ~Jitor-in-chi~f of 
TNJ. 

**Title: Lifting The Veil at Yale**
**Author: Regina Gelin**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
n the fall of 1991, Steven Rosenstein (SY '93) returned 
to Yale with his girlfriend of three months, Natalia 
Kashirina. 
Rosenstein, fluent in Russian, and 
Kashirina, a native of the former Soviet Union, met at a 
world peace camp in the United States that summer. 
Although Kashirina's visa required that she return home in 
September, the two could not bear to part. . 
"Those weeks were in turmoil. We made plans for me 
to visit her or for her to visit me, but it seemed such a long 
way away," recalls ·Rosenstein. The thought of separation 
grew so unbearable that Rosenstein decided t:o take a bold 
step. "I took her airplane ticket a,nd I tore it up so that she 
couldn't go back. I didn't exactly say, 'Will you marry me?' 
right then, but when I tore up her ticket that was the natu-
ral thing to do." They got married ~t New York's City Hall 
·and Rosenstein withdrew from Yale for a year. Life was so · 
hectic that they did not have time for a honeymoon. 


Michael South (CC '94) and Kristen Hacken South 
(CC '93) met the summer of 1989-after she had been 
accepted to Yale and he had just completed his first year-
through a mutual friend in their hometown of Salt Lake 
City. They grew close by summer's end but had to put 
their relationship on hold as South embarked on a two-year 
mission for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day 
Saints, or the Mormon Church. South went to Germany 
while Hacken South, also a Mormon, went to Yale. They 
kept in close touch for two years and finally reunited in 
New Haven over Thanksgiving 1991. They became 
engaged that week. South re-enrolled in the winter, and 
they married in Salt Lake City the following June. 

Getting married while attending college is a difficult 
and unusual choice. Those who do often face increased 
financial responsibility, suddenly complicated life decisions, 
and the startled reactions of peers and friends. During the 
1992-93 school year, only five Yale undergraduates, not 
counting special students, chose to brave such pressures. 
Their stories are as dissimilar as their personalities-from 
Rosenstein's impulsive shredding of Kashirina's plane ticket 
to the Souths' singularly dedicated long-distance courtship. 
The couples are alike only in their remarkable content-
ment. 


orne people think it is the coolest thing and oth-
ers think it's the craziest thing," says married 
undergraduate Roger Burton (BK '94). He treats 
22 THE NEw JouRNAL 
the mixed bag of reactions to him and his spouse Leann 
Wyler with a shrug. "Some people might think I am more 
mature. Some might wonder why I did it, but I really don't 
worry about what they think." 

. 

Burton and WyJer first met in junior high, but did not 
start dating until the end of their sophomore year of high 
school. After two years of dating seriously, they got 
engaged. "The wedding was never an immediate event in 
our minds. We felt that if we still felt like getting married 
in a few years, we should go ahead and do it," says Burton. 
"When he fir!>t left for school, I almost felt abandoned 
because we used to spend all our free time together," says 
Wyler, who remained in their hometown of Seattle. After 
two years of long-distance phone calls, numerous letters, 
reunions over breaks, and care packages on birthdays, 
B~rton and Wyler's commitment to eactt other did not 
waver, nor did their wish to rharry weaken. On May 30, 
1992, they tied the knot. Their medium-sized wedding 
' 
"I took her airplane ticket and tore it 
up. I didn't exactly sa~ 'Will you 
marry me?' right then, but that was 
the natural thing to do. " 
included 150 family members and friends, five of whom 
were Yalies. Burton's roommate served as best man. After a 
week's honeymoon on the Oregon coast and a summer 
spent in Seattle, the newlyweds moved to New Haven. 

For Wyler, leaving the hometown environment topk 
some adjustment. "I've lived in the same house in Seattle 
my entire life. It was really hard being away from my par-
ents and friends," says Wyler. She began working full-time 
at Temple Radiology, leaving her little time to meet people. 
"I tried to do more stuff at home and not to be away as 
much," says Burton. "I also tried to reassure her, especially 
when I was busy and seemed a little distant." During the 
year, they would spend a typical evening making dinner 
and watching TV before Burton did his schoolwork. 

The couple's parents helped smooth the transition to 
married life. They bought Burton and Wyler a truck, pay 
for its insurance, and cover the couple's rent during the 
school year. Burton's grandparents even send unannounced 


--- Page 23 ---

checks in the mail from rime to time. 

Wyler retains her maiden name and has not decided if ] 
she will change it. "It is a big decision for me but I've been 
putting it off. I don't see why a woman should always 
change her name." Burton ftas not pressured Wyler either. u 
"I never felt it was fair for me to force my name on her. I f 
just tried to support her decision," says Burton. Wyler sug-
gesred to Burton that he change his surname to hers, but 
she says that he did not like that idea much. 

Burton riores that his new lifestyle has not strained his 
Yale riendships. Burton continues to have lunch in his col-
lege and to visit his former roommates regularly. "I don't 
think my friends see me as separate from them because I 
am married," he says. His friends assured Burton of their 
support when they threw him a surprise bachelor party at 
the end of his sophomore year. His roommates secretly 
flew Wyler in for the weekend as the surprise guest. With 
Burton blindfolded, the crowd cheered loudly as Wyler 
kissed her soon-to-be husband. "I feared the worst," says 
Burton, "and thought that they hired a stripper." 

R
osenstein and Kashirina's romantic and short 
engagement made many of Rosenstein's friends gasp 
n horror. "I was kind of a wild parrier back in my 
single days. I have many memories of standing in a stair-
well for a cup of beer," says Rosenstein. "I'm probably the 
last person in the world that people would have expected 
~o get married." 

Rosenstein finds that life at Yale became easier after 
marriage. "People who are preoccupied with dating and 
meeting people can invest quite a bit of time and energy in 
the social scene. Going out on top of your school work can 
be really tiring," observes Rosenstein, who does not miss 
his old way of life. "Being married requires you to invest 
quire a bit of time, but not in the same way. It's probably 
invested in a more productive, more healthy way." 

Rosenstein dismisses the assumption that early mar-
riage is constraining. "Marriage does change you," he says. 
"Many people might want to wait until they are established 
in a career and are financially secure. But by that time, 
you're set in your own ways and less likely to grow and 
change. Natalia and I are still changing, but we're growing 
together as a team." The two will fly to St. P~tersburg this 
August-she to reunite with friends and family, he to meet 
his in-laws for the first time. 

F 
or South and Hacken South, marriage at ages 22 and 
20, respectiv~y, fo~ow.s convention in the Morm~n 
community. We didn t really see any reason to walt, 
although it sounds a little odd our here where people get 
married a lot later," says Hacken South. Most of their 
friends in Utah have married, while others worry if they


--- Page 24 ---

have not yet found a mate. 

Being away from their communi-
ty in Utah has tested their strength 
and reliance on one another. They 
help overcome their homesickness by 
living in an apartment complex that 
houses several Mormon graduate stu-
dents. 

The fact that they are the only 
undergraduates married to each other 
has given them some notoriety as "the 
Mormon couple." Weeks before they 
married, their wedding invitation 
appeared on the bulletin board of 
Calhoun College. 

The odd remarks and occasional 
double-takes they encounter have yet 
to dishearten the Souths, but Hacken 
South quickly notes they always come 
from people who do not know them 
well. " I think we get funny looks 
from undergraduates who have a hard 
time comprehending the idea of mar-
riage in college," 
she says. 

" 
Sometimes we laugh with them 
because we realize, they're shocked. It's 
the life that we've chosen. I figure 
we're giving them some cultural 
awareness. .. 

The Souths feel that their choice 
to start a new life is one that other Yale 
undergrads might happily make, given 
a stronger sense of commitment. "I 
certainly think more people I know 
here could get happily married right 
now. I just don't think I've met many 
who are willing to commit them-
selves," says South ... They're unsure of 
the outcome." 

The Souths, who are expecting a 
child in December, are not leading the 
typical Yale life. From their atypical 
experience comes a different type of 
growth, a different type of change. 
The Souths look to each day knowing 
rhat there is someone to watch over 
them. And for all these couples, that 
thought makes them all the happier. 

Ill) 
R~gina G~lin, a senior in Calhoun 
Co/kg~. is on th~ staff ojTNJ. 


**Title: Feeding the City**
**Author: john Gorham**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Speaking of New Haven in the past tense comes easily. 

One has enly to look beyond a four block radius sur-
rounding Yale to see neighborhoods gripped by pover-
ty and divided along ethnic lines. Yet there still are two 
things that can pull people of the area together, remind 
them of their shared history, and provide some economic 
stability in a city hit hard by the current recession: the quest 
for the perfect pizza and the historic hamburger. 

Oddly enough, New Haven takes credit for creating 
the weight of rising insurance rates, high 
taxes, 
and 
a 
crippling 
recession. 
Sally's 
functions as a 
place where different 
ethnic and socio-
economic groups 
mingle peacefully. 
'People don't come 
here to argue. They 
come here to eat. '
these twin pillars of American cuisine and 
culture. Viewed in the context of the histo-
ry of these products, these inventions are of 
considerable importance. Hamburg~rs have 
become standard American fare, spawning 
such corporate giants as McDonald's and 
Burger King. The slice of American-style 
pizza is a sidewalk fixture from New York to 
Moscow. 
Moscow is a long way from Wooster 
Street in New Haven, but Flora Consiglio, 
proprietor of the famous Sally's Pizzeria of 
Wooster Street, can remember when 
Wooster St~et was the only place you could 
get pizza. Her late husband Salvatore (hence 
the name Sally's) began working in his 
uncle's pizzeria, Pepe's, down the block while 
still in grammar school. In 1938 he started his own restau-
rant and people have been lining up to get a table ever since, 
including the likes of Senator Edward Kennedy, Frank 
Sinatra, Gary Trudeau, and Michael Bolton. All three of 
Consiglio's children have returned after graduating from 
college to help run the restaurant. 

What then makes Sally's pizza a step above the competi-
tion? Consiglio, mother of three and grandmother of four, 
smiled demurely. "In all honesty, I couldn't tell you what 
the difference is." She did emphasize, however; the impor-
tance of using pizza dough over bread dough-a distinction 
many pizzerias overlook. 

Waiting in line in the late afternoon summer heat, 
Gregory Williams and his fiancee, Rhonda Myers, had their 
own theories. "I think I've cracked their recipe," Williams, a 
cook at Trumbull College, asserted. "Sally's uses really fresh 
ingredients like virgin olive oil, fresh garlic, and tomato 
sauce where you can see the skins of the tomatoes. Pepe's 
uses more crushed, pureed tomatoes in their sauce. Only 
problem is you can't reheat Sally's pizza." 
Myers, who works at Yale-New Haven Hospital and 
University Commons, nodded her assent. "Modern 
[Apizza] is similar to Sally's. But after I got hooked on this, 
I won't eat any other pizza." 

Sally's importance to this city transcends simply pro-
viding the finest pizza to New Haven's residents. Small, 
family-run businesses like Sally's, in Consiglio's opinion, 
provide the economic backbone of a city struggling under 
Unfortunately, these self-same family busi-
nesses are becoming. rarer. "I. mean years 
ago we had many lnde spectalty stores. 
They used to have a policeman· on every 
street corner to direct traffic during the 
Christmas shopping season," she said. 
"New Haven was a great place, believe 
me. " 

One reason for Sally's longevity as a 
business enterprise lies in its reliance on a 
small 
profit 
margin-high 
volume 
approach. "You have to work harder but at 
least you're making a living wage," 
Consiglio said. She explained that her 
husband had a simple rule to guide his 
business: "If you won't eat it, don't serve it." 

Sally's also functions as a place where different ethnic 
and socio-economic groups mingle peacefully. Back outside 
in the line to get in, Sue and Dominic, a middle-aged cou-
ple from the predominantly Italian suburban community of 
East 
Haven, 
stood 
behind 
Williams, who is black and hails 
from the Hill, one of New Haven's 
poorest and most violent areas. 

Couples like Sue and Dominic 
and Gregory and Rhonda find 
themselves waiting less and less on 
the same lines, having fewer 
chances to 
meet and 
talk. 

Fortunately a good pizza can still 
bring people together. Consiglio recalled a couple who met 
waiting outside the restaurant and ended having their wed-
ding rehearsal dinner at the pizzeria. "People don't come 
here to argue," Williams said. "They come here to eat." 


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author:  N/A**
**Page number(s): 26**

The unique pizza at S~tly s always draws a crowd. 

L
ouis' Lunch is another small 
family business that has success-
fully weathered New Haven's 
hard times. . A small, shuttered brick 
building located at 263 Crown Street, 
Louis' looks more like an historic land-
mark than a burger joint. In reality, it 
is both, according to its owner Ken 
Lassen. 

· Lassen, a genial, graying man, 
credits his grandfather Louis Lassen 
with making the world's first ham-
burger and the world's first steak sand-
wich. Lassen himself started working 
regular hours at the family eatery at 
age twelve. "I wanted to be an archi-
tect," he confided over the counter as 
his wife Lee and his son Jeffrey bustled 
with the orders of the lunch-time 
crowd. "When my father passed away 
I became the breadwinner. I figured I 
better do what I knew best." Which is 
hamburgers. 

The way they make hamburgers 
isn't the only thing that has stood still 
at Louis' Lunch. The building itself is 
the sole remnant of a tannety complex 
from the 1780s. When the complex 
was slated to be torn down, the tiny 
building was moved to its present loca-
tion on Crown Street with the help 
and money of concerned patrons. The 
centerpiece of the building is one of 
the walls, which was rebuilt after the 
restaurant's relocation, and composed 
of bricks sent to Mr. Lassen from 
grateful customers. 

On the subject of his clientele, 
Lassen brightened. "We have the most 
beautiful clienrc:;Jsjv.b~ ~~rid ," h.e. ..., 
said expansivefy:~ Guys who grease 
cars to CEOs. I don't know where all 
the shnooks go but we. don't have 
them." 

On a "tour of the walls" Lassen 
proudly points out bricks from famous 
structures and places: a piece of King 
Solomon's Temple in Jerusalem, coral 
from French Polynesia, part of the old 
Metropolitan Opera House in New 
York. "With this wall we can make 
anyone feel at home," he declared. 

The reminders of those businesses 
Certain protocols in Louis' Lunch 
must be obeyed without question. The 
only garnishings allowed are cheese, 
onion, and tomato. Using ketchup and 
mustard is sacrilegious. The meat is 
cooked vertically in upright cast-iron 
stoves dating from 1895. Two slices of 
toast complete the recipe. "It's just like 
we stood still," Mr. Lassen observed. 
"Four generations and there hasn't 
been a millionaire yet. The money's in 
your sandwich." 


**Page number(s): 27**

not as fortunate as ·Louis', or for that 
matter Sally's, are all around the 
restaurant. Another of the eatery's 
walls is made up from bricks, collected 
by Lassen, of bulldozed small build-
ings that composed an area on Church 
Street from the Green to Crown 
Street, replaced by the now empty 
monolithic b!,lildings of Macy's and 
'its just like we stood 
still, "observes Lassen of 
Louis' Lunch. "Four 
generations and there 
hasn't been a millionaire 
yet. The moneys in your 
sandwich. " 
other big retail stores. "This wall rep-
resents alhhe tears from the mom and 
pop businesses that were destroyed to 
make way for the downtown you see 
today," Lassen said softly. 

Sitting at the polished wooden 
counter under the shadow of its elder-
ly beams, listening to the slightly bent 
man leaning beside his cast iron stoves, 
diners feel a warm glow-and it's not 
from the stove. 

Here stand tenacious 
survivors, both the man and his eatery, 
secure in their faith in New Haven, 
safeguarding their tradition and histo-
ry long after the structures of their cor-
porate rivals sit empty and decaying. 

Like Sally's, Louis' Lunch can lay claim 
to a piece of American history. With a 
dedication to the quality of the food 
they produce and the well-being of the 
people they serve, both Sally's and 
Louis' plan to stand by New Haven 
through thick and thin. 

fohn Gorham, a junior in Saybrook 
Co/kg~. is on th~ staff ojTNJ. 

**Title: How I Spent My Summer**
**Author: Richard Brodhead**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In early May I was asked if I would write some thoughts for publication in Th~ N~w journaL For several reasons I was pleased to agree. The editor who asked was a former student; I have a long-standing admiration for this journal, which was founded by friends of mine in undergraduate years; and the terms of the request were exceptionally easy-my piece could be on any subject, and I'd have the whole summer to write it. 


The whole summer having flown by, packed with days when I could have written my piece if only it had seemed a little more urgent, I now find myself face to face with my task and learn that it is an abyss of vagueness. I've seldom found it hard to write on something; but on "Anything?" That's a taller order, and it takes me back to the misery-inducing "free theme" of my youth, that open-ended invitation to expose the barrenness of one's imagination. 


The default topic in those (I hope) long gone days was "how I spent my summer," which might avail me here. For how I spent my summer was learning a new territory and giving some reflection to the kind of job I've undertaken. So a topic presents itself after all: Preliminary Reflection of Administration Man. 


One thing that has come clear to me is how many years one can spend in a university without paying any attention to its administration. When I was an undergraduate the Dean of Yale College was Georges May. Though my classmates and I could easily pick up on the fact that Dean May was the most urbane person one had ever met (he still is), his face atwinkle with an extraordinary knowingness mysteriously compatible with endless amusement, I did not know three things about what the Dean of Yale College was or did. There had to be one, it seemed, and there my curiosity ended. 


When I was in graduate school, during the student revolution of 1970, I, of course, learned the general mistrust of administrations rigueur in that extraordinary season, and protested such callous displays of administrative power as the tree removals necessary to build the Cross Campus Library. But I still had no idea what administration meant in any concrete sense, and my ignorance persisted long after I joined the faculty. 


I speak now from a position of somewhat greater knowledge. From this position I judge that my earlier ignorance represented not a real deficiency but a sign that things were working fairly well. For I now suppose that the deep aim of university administration is in some serious sense to make itself disappear: that its real goal is to make it possible for most people most of the time to think about other things. 


My late colleague, Michael Cooke, tragically killed this time of year three years ago, said to me shortly after he took up the Mastership of Trumbull College: "You know, Dick, all teaching properly culminates in administration." Michael Cooke was given to oracular utterances, and I remember at the time feeling that this statement was no less profound for being wholly enigmatic. Much later in my own career, I know both what he meant and why I would disagree with him. He meant, I suppose, that the same moral passions that make teaching such a satisfying career for some people, are what drive such people into the institutional labors that support education. That, I think, is undeniable: I can't imagine the psyche so malformed that it could desire administrative position as an end rather than as a means to serve other ends. But surely the educative will doesn't lead toward administrative culminations in any inevitable or necessary way; quite the reverse. 


Yale has distinguished tradition of scholar teachers who have come to administrative power on the basis of their work as educators, not bureaucrats. My other colleague, A. Bartlett Giamatti, also painfully remembered at this time of year, is the great modern exemplum of this type. Yale remains highly distinctive for its refusal to tolerate the separation of administrative from academic personnel. What was once said of men and dust can largely be said of Yale administrators: of the faculty they are, and to the faculty they shall return. Nevertheless, the faculty-administrator tradition can conceal the fact that the great majority of faculty do not, do not want to, do not need to, turn away from educational to administrative roles. We do that work when it comes to us, but we are not here for that. 


What is administration? My own understanding of this form of work relies on something like a base/superstructure model. I visualize universities as comprising two zones of activity that are at once profoundly different and separate and profoundly interdependent on one another. In one of these, the activities that are the purpose of the university take place: study, reflection, discussion, the transmission of knowledge and the interrogation of received ideas, and the building of bonds between people from different backgrounds who are engaged in these common pursuits. (This formulation is of course very approximate.) These activities are in essence intellectual, one might even say ideal. But it is their peculiarity that they require support from another sphere of activity that is the reverse of ideal: practical, bureaucratic, material or physical, economic. So a course is, in its moments of intense self-realization, a wholly intellectual transaction, a vivid sharing and questioning of knowledge performed together by teacher and student. But in another, just-as-real sense, a course is the set of not-in-the-least intellectual arrangements that made this intellectual experience possible: it meets at an hour that has to be arranged, in a location that has to be arranged, in a building whose physical maintenance has to be arranged, led by an instructor who has to be hired, whose qualifications have to be approved, whose parking space has to be arranged, whose benefits and salary have to be arranged, working with students who have to be selectively admitted according to policies and procedures that have to be arranged, who themselves require study space, and residential space, and dining hall menus, all of which require to be arranged, and ... you get the idea. 


The educational operations of a university are not reducible to its bureaucratic arrangements, but they can't take place separate from those arrangements: those arrangements create the possibility of an experience of a different order, an experience free to forget the arrangements that provided its occasion-what is called the life of the mind. This, I take it, is what administration is in a university: a temporary crossing over from the realm of education proper into the enabling realm of arrangement. 


It follows that good administration isn't just the art of skillful management, but is that practice of management that retains a powerful sense of what it is trying to enable, what non-practical goal it is trying to ad-minister or minister to. (My Latin dictionary gives these senses for the noun administer, administri: servant, underling, assistant, agent, attendant, priest.) 


All of which is true enough, but fails to capture the drama that can attach to administration. This arises from the fact that arrangement and management require choices, choices to be made in the midst of competing communal preferences and with finite resources for their realization. A stupid joke of my youth ran: "Would you like to go to California or by bus?" But just this absurd asymmetry characterizes the kinds of choices that come up in the zone of administration. Would you rather subscribe to obscure periodicals for the library-since who knows what apparently minor periodical in what apparently marginal language will turn out to be considered a major cultural document?-or put a roof on a severely leaky lab? Would you rather paint the admissions office-an educational issue, since appearances can affect matriculation and Yale wants to draw the best--or hire extra teaching assistants for an overcrowded course?


**The Fun of Administration**
**Author: Richard Brodhead**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Would you do better to try to upgrade 
athletic facilities or career counseling 
services? Support new interdisciplinary 
programs or fix more antiquated bath-
rooms? 

Such choices in reality come up not 
in pairs but as the rivalry of each desir-
able thing against every other one. Each 
claim comes wi'th direct educational 
benefits if adopted and possibly dire 
consequences if neglected. At the same 
time, when decisions must be made, 
there's no knowing for sure which 
choice will prove to have been the best 
or wisest-only the certainty of dis-
pleasing those who counseled on the 
other side. Trying to make intelligent 
choices while working in this particular 
darkness is the fun of administration. 

Two things help here. 
First, 
administration at Yale is a high-
ly collegial affair. Almost noth-
ing at Yale has ever been accomplished 
autocratically. Successful management 
has instead involved large amounts of 
consultation with faculty, students, 
staff, and administrative colleagues, so 
that none of us move forward with our 
own unaia~d light. Second, the aca-
demic culfure of Yale puts a much 
lower premium on administrative 
affairs than it does on intellectual ones. 
Yale is sometimes inefficient as a result, 
but the healthy consequence is that Yale 
tends not to forget what management is 
in the service of-what educational 
goals bureaucracy is trying to effect. 

In these conditions, I'm happy to 
make a temporary deviation into the 
administrative zone. Having a job like 
my current one is the only way to get a 
sense of how the whole of Yale works. 
So I greet it as a new phase of my edu-
cation-and after I've done it for a 
while, it'll be someone else's turn, and 
I'll cross back into my more usual habi-
Ut. 

~ 
Richard Brodhead (BR '68, GRD '72) 
is D~an of Yale Coll~g~. 
SEPTEMBER 3· 1993 
• 
THE NEW jOURNAL 31 



3 FLOORS WATERBED & FUTONS 
101 WHALLEY AVE., NEW HAVEN 
(203) 624-8410 
FUTON 
TRUCKLOAD SALE 
SEPT. 4 
TO SEPT. 11 
Full Size 
s1gg oo 
6" Futon & A-Frame 
It's 8 couch, It's 8 lounger, It's s bed 
·Full Size 
s249 oo 
6" Futon & L-Frame 
COFFEE TABLES 
$39 
END TABLE 
$19 
! 
i 
!. 
!: 
' 
I 
~~~ 
FREE CURB SERVICE 
DOOR 
BEADS 
Starting at $11.95 
IN NEW HAVEN ONLY 
f
iNDIAN BEDSPREADS1 
1.. 
Single 
$13.50 
Double 
$15.50 
T-Shirts 
Grateful Dead • 
• Lava Lamps • 
Incense • 
• Stickers • 
20°/o OFF ABOVE 
WITH FLYER 
Full Service 
Waterbed Dealer 
•Mattress• 
•Liners• 
•Heaters• 
•Waterbed Sheets 
•Waterbed Conditioners 
20°/oOFF 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK· SUNDAY 1·5 AFTER LABOR DAY 

