Publication date: 12/92
Volume 25, Issue 3

**Title: PROFILE Crusader for Cambodia**
**Author: joel Tesoro**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Chanthou Boua has spent much of her life caring for Cambodia. In her work at Khmer Health Advocates (KHA), a Hartford-based public health agency, she helps many of Connecticut's 2,000 Khmer refugees adjust to both the strain of living in a new country and to the trauma of surviving Cambodia's "killing fields." She writes passionately about Cambodian issues, especially regarding the plight of the country's women. As the only surviving member of her family-all of whom were killed by the Khmer Rouge-Boua has dedicated her research and activism to ensuring that her family's murderers will never again control Cambodia. 

Boua's comfortable life in New Haven is a far cry from the shattered lives of the Cambodian families she visits as associate program director of KHA. Founded in 1982, KHA deals with the mental health and readjustment needs of Connecticut's Cambodian refugees. "All miss home terribly," said Boua. "Many refuse to learn English because they think they are going to go home soon." 

Nearly all refugees have lost members of their family to the Khmer Rouge, and do not know whether other relatives are living or dead. Aside from overcoming the shock of separation from their homes and their families, refugees must also deal with the effects of years of terror and strife. They often relive the horrors of the Khmer Rouge years through flashbacks. 

Many Khmer immigrants turn to drugs and alcohol to deal with the mental strain. One Khmer woman in Waterbury even lost her sight. Although doctors have diagnosed nothing physically wrong with her eyes, her mind has apparently suppressed her vision in response to the suffering and bloodshed she saw in Cambodia. "We have seen mothers, too, who might as well be blind," said Mary Scully, executive director of KHA. Although in Cambodia these women may have sacrificed a great deal to protect their children, some have experienced such trauma that they no longer realize when their children need medical attention or help in school. 

For five years, Boua sought news of her parents, sister, and six brothers. In 1979, she traveled to the Thai-Cambodian border with her husband of one year, Ben Kiernan, then an Australian graduate student researching Cambodian history and now a Yale history professor. While Kiernan studied the Khmer language among ethnic Cambodians living in eastern Thailand, Boua visited the refugee camps along the border. "I went around for three months," she recalled, "long enough to find out my family was not among the refugees." 

A month before she and Kiernan arrived in Thailand, a Vietnamese-backed army had swept into Phnom Penh and ousted Pol Pot. The Khmer Rouge retreated to bases along the Thai border. In July 1980, Boua and Kiernan got visas from the new government to America. 

Boua has focused her social work on refugee children, many of whom suffer from lack of concentration, poor academic performance, and difficult home lives. Scully claims that because the experiences of parents and children differ so radically, Cambodian children often feel abandoned. 

Boua meets with educators and social workers to discuss the challenges facing Cambodian adolescents. "We plead with them to take a second look at these kids," she said. She is starting a magazine in which Cambodian youth can write about their lives and problems to encourage the development of self-esteem. Boua also plans to organize a conference to discuss the plight of the refugees and strategies for helping them adapt to America. 

Though not a refugee herself, Boua has made their problems her own.  Boua still suffered from the horror they imposed on Cambodia. She lost her entire family in the period from 1975 to 1979, when the Khmer Rouge slaughtered an estimated 1.3 million Cambodians. 

An academic scholarship to Australia saved Boua from a similar fate. A gifted student who had moved from her home in the Cambodian countryside to study in the capital of Phnom Penh, she left her country in 1972 for a university in Sydney. At the time, an American-backed military dictatorship ruled Cambodia, battling an insurgency that was ravaging the country. The American war in neighboring Vietnam had spilled over Cambodia's borders and led to the emergence of the enigmatic and violent Khmer Rouge revolutionaries, who captured Phnom Penh in 1975. Pol Pot, their leader, renamed Cambodia "Democratic Kampuchea" and sealed off the country from the rest of the world. Foreigners could not get in and Cambodians could not get out. 

At first Boua, like many Cambodians, welcomed the triumph of the Khmer Rouge and the end of the war that had torn Cambodia apart. Stranded in Australia, she helped publish a pro-Khmer Rouge newsletter and followed broadcasts from Radio Phnom Penh. When the names of respected revolutionary leaders inexplicably disappeared from the broadcasts, she began to suspect that something had gone wrong. Then Boua stopped receiving letters from her family. 

They became the first researchers to visit the country after the fall of the Khmer Rouge. "I arrived in Phnom Penh in 1980 for the first time after I left it in 1972," Boua wrote in one of her articles. "I saw a country in ruins." Once a crowded metropolis of 2 million people, the capital looked like a wasteland. Grass grew tall in the former gardens of the city, while cows grazed in the streets of downtown. In a parody of the jungle, broken telephone wires hung from poles like vines dangling from trees. The couple saw elephants wandering the streets amidst the pushcarts and oxcarts of Phnom Penh's daily traffic. "The city was dirty," said Boua, "like a household that hadn't been looked after." 

She and her husband traveled through 13 of Cambodia's 18 provinces. They witnessed incredible devastation and economic hardship. Although the new government had begun to rebuild the country's crippled infrastructure, an economic embargo by the United States and other countries made the job even more difficult. Vietnam had invaded Cambodia in response to Khmer Rouge incursions across its southern border. The international community protested the presence of Vietnamese troops on Cambodian soil, and denied the Vietnamese-installed government relief and development aid. The U.S. voted to allow the Khmer Rouge to maintain its seat in the U.N. as the legitimate Cambodian government-in-exile. 

"Everywhere I went," Boua said, "Cambodians asked me, 'Why? Why are the Western countries recognizing the Khmer Rouge? Don't they believe what we say?'" Cambodian peasants told her how the Khmer Rouge emptied the cities, evacuating people into the countryside and killing many in the process. Intellectuals and ethnic minorities were summarily executed. The Khmer Rouge took children away and taught them to spy on their parents. Pol Pot also imposed a system of communal eating that all but shattered traditional family structure. Aside from those killed by the government, hundreds of thousands died from disease and starvation. The residents of the villages Boua visited inevitably took her to see the local mass grave. My husband is there, they told her. My children are there. 

Boua discovered a nation of widows and mothers, of orphaned daughters and abandoned wives-the group that would become the focus of her research and activism. The Khmer Rouge had killed mostly men, she learned, leaving women to fend for themselves in the new Cambodia. Women now make up close to 65 percent of the adult population. Like survivors of a blast, they are physically unharmed but mentally shaken. 

"Many women will not get over the trauma of the moment when their husbands-and sometimes sons-were taken away, or were shot, or clubbed to death," Boua wrote in a 1982 article for the *New Lift Proj~*. These women still had to work in the fields, care for the children, and eke out a living in the devastated country. "It is primarily women who have borne the brunt of more than a decade of international economic sanctions," she wrote in *Ms.* magazine. 

In her travels through Cambodia, Boua returned to the town where she was born: Thlok Chrou, a small fishing and farming village by the Mekong River. For ten years Boua had lived in this tightly-knit, familial community, in a big wooden house with stilts and a tiled roof. There she found distant relatives living in the ruins of the town. They told her the Khmer Rouge had taken her family away two at a time to be killed. Her father and uncle had died trying to escape. Nothing remained in Thlok Chrou, except the shattered foundations of her family's former home. 

Since returning to Australia from Cambodia at the end of 1980, Boua has logged countless hours telling the world about the horrors of the Khmer Rouge, the troubles and hopes of the Cambodian people, and the shortcomings of the international community's attitude to Cambodia. "Why haven't the Khmer Rouge been tried for their crimes?" she said. "Why are they still walking tall?" As a Cambodia scholar, Boua has helped translate confidential leadership documents from the Pol Pot period and has co-edited with Kiernan a collection of articles on peasants and politics in Cambodia. As a relief worker, she has advised and assisted various aid organizations in their operations in the country. As an activist, she has written articles, appeared on radio shows, and given speeches about Cambodia.