Publication date: September 5, 1997
Volume: 30
Issue number: 1


**MASTHEAD:**
- Not present in provided text


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

Meditations on Meditation - Lainie Rutkow
An Honest's Day Work - Loren Brody with Sarah Rogers
Straight from the Gift Horse's Mouth - Gabriel Snyder
Photoessay: Tower One-Tower East - Ma Piyaka
From Our Perspective
Points of Departure
Between the Vines: Home Sweet Home, Again - Dorje Boufides
The Critical Angle: The Letters of Gertrude Stein and Thornton Wilder - Dana Goodyear
Endnote: Coup at the Co-op - Alec Hanley Bemis


**Title: Meditations on Meditation**
**Author: Lainie Rutkow**
**Page number(s): 6**

From a hidden house on Mansfield Street, the New Haven Zen Center offers a welcome silence.


**Title: An Honest's Day Work**
**Author: Loren Brody with Sarah Rogers**
**Page number(s): 10**

Between june and August, hundreds of migrant workers from Mexico and Guatemala leave their over-crowded New Haven apartments to work 14-hour days in the tobacco fields of the Connecticut Valley.


**Title: Straight from the Gift Horse's Mouth**
**Author: Gabriel Snyder**
**Page number(s): 16**

After Yale refuses to accept his money, playwright and AIDS activist Larry Kramer tells of his not-so-bright college years.


**Title: Photoessay: Tower One-Tower East**
**Author: Ma Piyaka**
**Page number(s): 22**


**Title: From Our Perspective**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Page number(s): 5**


**Title: Between the Vines: Home Sweet Home, Again**
**Author: Dorje Boufides**
**Page number(s): 26**


**Title: The Critical Angle: The Letters of Gertrude Stein and Thornton Wilder**
**Author: Dana Goodyear**
**Page number(s): 28**


**Title: Endnote: Coup at the Co-op**
**Author: Alec Hanley Bemis**
**Page number(s): 30**


**Title: Shop 'til You Drop**
**Author: The Editors**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yale is at this moment thigh-deep in 
the semesterly phenomenon of 
shopping period, a ten-day experience 
which is at worst a crash course-- in 
contingency and at best a drive 
through higher education's Napa 
Valley. We shop-
pers sample the 
sweets; we hover, 
plunge, and dart 
off fast. Of this 
practice-this 
dabbling 
and 
momentary dilettan-
tism which allows the 
Engineering 
major 
to 
entertain for one moment 
the thought of Kundera-
University of Virginia Professor 
Mark Edmundson (GRD '85) has a 
thing or two to say. In a recent Harp-
er's article, complaining of the market 
sensibility that dominates American 
universities, he wrote: "The common 
term for this time span-~hopping 
period-speaks volumes about the 
consumer mentality that's now in 
play." 

Edmundson paints a picture of the 
climate of university life that is 
designed to depress. He depicts under-
graduates as the dull, sad vehicles of 
commercial culture, desirous only of 
pleasure's gentle lullaby, to be fol-
lowed by a sugarplum future in the 
suburban middle class. We are, in his 
view, slogging through our days, our 
edges softened by just enough TV to 
keep us from committing suicide. We 
are utterly dispassionate. 

This is an uncomfortable image to 
any student, but not in the way that 
Edmundson intends. It is objection-
able not because he pushes us toward a 
painful self-recognition, but precisely 
because what he writes does not ring 
true. Students act like customers, true 
enough, but not to the detriment of 
Yale as a place of intellectual rigor. We 
act like grannies at the grocery store, 
prodding fruit and comparing prices, 
getting downright finicky. We demand 
the most for our twenty-nine 
ninety-five 
when 
we 
shop, and do so with an 
intensity 
that 
belies 
Edmundson's image of 
the apathetic yawn-
ing undergrad. 

We understand 
"shopping 
period," a term 
which semantical-
equates pedagogical 
endeavors to wow students with 
99¢ specials on Jell-O, is simply too 
alluring to pass up. Anyone_ can see 
that it's an example of how, surprise, 
surprise, a half a century's worth of 
consumer culture has infiltrated the 
ivory tower. The irony, though, is that 
during the next week of classes, we 
will actually give a damn. 

That cleared up, we feel we must 
move on to Edmundson's larger con-
demnation: that we lack genius. Okay, 
we will admit that excitement does 
not equal genius. But we also know 
better (in that apathetic, cool-kid 
way) than to confuse perspiration 
with inspiration. 

Edmundson concludes his essay 
with a short declaration of his plan to 
improve his teaching methods, in an 
effort to combat the consumer-driven 
soft-shelledness of his students: "I'm 
getting back to a more exuberant 
style; I'll be expostulating and arm 
waving straight into the millennium, 
yes I will." Such behavior, we savvy 
shoppers 
know, 
sometimes 
sours 
before its expiration date. 
-The Editors 
THE NEW jOURNAL 


**Title: First to Be Last**
**Author: justin Sacks**
**Page number(s): 5**

The class of 1999 is the last class of this mil-
lennium. Any member of the junior class of 
1999 knows that. Dean Brodhead (BR '68, 
GRD '72) told us so at our freshman address. 
He said we are "Yale's last chance to get it right." 
I certainly felt proud about that as I moved into 
Old Campus two years ago, Prince's "1999" 
blasting out of every dorm window. Just listen 
to the song, Prince knows what's going on. 
1999 is our last chance to party before the new 
millennium. I presented my father with this 
irrefutable evidence that I was part of this elite 
last class of the twentieth century. Of course, 
my dad rebutted this information. "Count to 
ten," he prodded. I started with one and contin-
ued on, his familiar smirk appearing before I 
reached ten. "See," he pointed out, "you start 
with one and end with ten, so 1991 is the first 
year of this decade and 2000 is the last." 

I was not willing to concede so quickly. My 
dad is a lawyer, and if is my lifelong dream to 
win an argument against him. The Dean ofYale 
College wouldn't lie. Neither would Prince, or 
whatever his name is now. I turned to my trusty 
Webster's Dictionary. I stumbled upon the Table 
of Numbers, which listed the cardinal and ordi-
nal numbers. I could see the proof right there in 
front of me. The cardinal column started with 
zero. Adjacent to it, in the ordinal column, the 
word first; nine lined up perfectly with tenth. 

I was still curious, and when all else fails, I 
head for the Encyclopedia Britannica. But I was 
foiled even there because the encyclopedia's 
explanation only confused me further. 

In Biblical terms, the end of the mil-
lennium will mark the end of the 
world. Does that mean that the 
graduation of the class of 2000 will 
signal the apocalypse? Thankfully, 
I'll have my Yale degree before 
that happens. 

I decided to turn to the 
ultimate authority in time-
keeping: Greenwich, England. 
After all, every day begins right 
there. On the first screen of the web site, bright 
colors announced the unveiling of the world's 
biggest dome in the year 2000. I thought I had 
SEPTEMBER 5, 1997 
finally triumphed, but alas, the scientists over in 
Greenwich pointed out a fatal flaw. There is no 
year 0. We go from 1 B.C. to 1 A.D. So year 1 
is similar to zero on the Table of Numbers. 
Consequently, 1999 is the 999th year of the sec-
ond millennium and 2000 the 1000th. Offi-
cially, 2001 is the first year of the third millenni-
um. Though disheartened, I thought I could at 
least remain secure in the knowledge that I had 
found the answer. But, oh no, even those seem-
ingly trustworthy scientists conceded that, "The 
millennium officially starts on 1 January 2001 
at Greenwich. But most people are regarding 1 
January 2000 as a good day to start the party!" 

Start the party? I guess people will do anything 
to find an excuse to have a good time. So, 
despite all that Dean Brodhead, my father, Web-
ster's Dictionary, and Encyclopedia Britannica 
told me, it turns out Prince was right after all. 
-justin Sacks 


**Title: New Haven Transfer**
**Author: Catherine Olender**

The opening days of school are hectic for 
every Yale student, as we flip distractedly 
through blue books and make desperate 
attempts to secure a network connection. 
Carmelo Rivera (DC '00) and Nathaniel Bird-
sall (DC '01) have more challenges ahead of 
them than the standard scheduling, unboxing, 
and rearranging burdens of the average Yalie. 
The roommates are two of the 25 transfer stu-
dents entering Yale this semester. 

I remember the mixture of 
excitement and terror I felt as a 
transfer student in this same 
room one year ago as I attempt-
ed to decipher an overwhelm-
ingly complicated university 
system, most of which was writ-
ten in a language I could hard-
ly understand. Who is this res-
idential college master person? 
Can anybody tell me what classes 
I'm supposed to take, no, shop 
for? Why is there a man shaving 
his head in my bathroom? You 
mean I have to share it with him? Where is my 
freshman counselor?! 

Rivera and Birdsall may enjoy a smoother 
transition than I did, but like me and my trans-
fer classmates of last year, they arrive at Yale sev-
eral years out of high school. Their varied life 
experiences give each student a unique perspec-
tive that combines the naiveté of the Yale fresh-
man with the assumptions of a veteran college 
student. 

For Rivera, starting at Yale is an unexpected 
homecoming. He grew up on Frank Street in 
New Haven. After graduating from high school 
four years ago, Rivera packed his bags and 
stepped onto a Greyhound bus, vowing never 
to return. Rivera worked at various jobs across 
the country: as a welder in Ohio, on an oil rig in 
Louisiana, and in a Florida power plant. In 
Florida, Rivera decided to go back to school. 
After two successful years at Hillsborough 
Community College in Tampa, Rivera moved 
back to New Haven with plans to study biolo-
gy. "I used to walk construction beams here five 
years ago," he says. "I can't believe I'm back." 

Nathaniel Birdsall's post-high school experi-
ence has been as sedentary as Rivera's has been 
unsettled. Birdsall spent his last two years at 
Deep Springs College near Death Valley, Cali-
fornia, 30 miles from the nearest man-made 
structure. The academically prestigious, two-
year, all-male school has a student body of 26 
and is also a working cattle ranch and alfalfa 
farm. Three transfer students this year come 
from Deep Springs. Most recently, Birdsall 
worked as a dairy boy, milking cows and mak-
ing butter, in addition to studying for his class-
es. One of the hardest things about moving to 
New Haven, Birdsall says, is getting used to 
buying products instead of growing them. "The 
last two years I knew the man who cooked the 
meat, I knew the man who slaughtered the cow, 
I knew the cow's name," Birdsall says. "It's been 
hard to readjust to consumer society." 

In many ways, Rivera and Birdsall are typi-
cal Yale students, however they must endure the 
evolutionary process every Yale freshman 
undergoes without the nourishing primordial 
soup of Old Campus. After their inaugural year 
at Yale is behind them, though, perhaps these 
students will get to play the role of seasoned 
Yalie to a new group of transfer students who 
will arrive on campus next fall. 
-Catherine Olender


**Title: Meditations on Meditation**
**Author: Lainie Rutkow**
**Page number(s): 6**

Perched on a black pillow on the floor of Battell Chapel, my fig-
ure completes a small ring of people. They begin to chant. I flip 
through a book of Zen chants whose frailty implies years of use. 
The words are spoken first in Korean and then in English. For 
ten minutes I stumble through Korean phonetics, relieved only briefly 
by the translation. After chanting, we start a 30-minute sitting medita-
tion. I sit up straighter, centering my shoulders above my hips; some-
one inhales deeply. My legs are already experiencing the dull ache that 
the lotus position often causes. 

I focus my eyes on the grayed carpet beneath me, wondering just 
how I am to empty my mind of thoughts that seem to have nowhere 
else to go. I furtively glance up to check the status of the other practi-
tioners and catch a glimpse of the Biblical scenes formed by stained-
glass panels above my head. This allegedly "non-denominational" 
chapel triggers the onset of my non-secular anxieties. 

I have not attended a religious service in years, and non-meditative 
thoughts begin racing through my head. I think back to ten minutes ear-
lier when I opened the chapel doors and discerned only thick silence. 
Squinting, I detected five figures sitting in the pipe organ's massive shad-
ow. They were so still that they appeared the phantom remains of some 
earlier gathering. As I approached them, my footsteps and even my 
breathing resonated from every crevice of the building. I became guiltily 
conscious of each creak and thud that accompanied me toward them. 

Suddenly, the sharp pain in my back reminds me that I am sup-
posed to be meditating. Recalling my recent sequence of thoughts, I 
determine that the first 15 minutes of this meditation caused me more 
stress than relaxation. Maybe I missed some unspoken but crucial rule 
6 
of "sitting." I wonder if any of my fellow contortionists are suffering. To 
them, I do appear to be meditating, since I sit in the way that Dushko 
Petrovich (DC '97) explained when I first arrived at the chapel: shoe-
less, with feet over knees, back straightened, hands overlapped, shoul-
ders relaxed, tongue "parked" behind the teeth. I now understand why 
he cautioned me not to be discouraged by my first attempt at medita-
tion. "Meditation practice is not special. You don't go in and have this 
special experience. It's not a vacation—you don't go in to relax. As 
many things as you can do to make it a part of your everyday life, the 
better it can engage that everyday life. It's a process that has to work 
itself out," he said. 

Dushko claps two pieces of wood together to mark the end of the 
meditation. My head jerks up and I feel somewhat dazed, though I 
notice that I am not the only one who jumped at the unexpected clack. 
As we gather our belongings and tie our shoes, the people who shared 
this experience speak in low tones. One woman mentions that she 
meditates as part of a religious studies class, a second remarks that she is 
a New Haven resident who practices Zen. I learn that of the six partici-
pants, only three are Yale students. 

The dynamic is similar at the next morning's meditation session. 
Of the seven attendees, four are Yale students and three are New Haven 
residents. I mention this to Dushko and he is not at all surprised by my 
mundane observation. He explains that the meditation sessions are 
open to Yale students as well as those in the surrounding community. A 
community organization, not the university, supports the on-campus 
meditation sessions. He tells me that the New Haven Zen Center is 
responsible for nearly all Zen activities on campus. When Dushko



**Title: Finding Tranquility on Mansfield Street**
**Author: Lainie Rutkow**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Pillows mark seats of those who meditate, while stark walls and large windows provide a sense of tranquility at the New Haven Zen Center. 
began to sit, about four years ago, it was Bruce Blair (TC '81), the 
abbot of the Zen Center, who led meditation sessions. 

The New Haven Zen Center sits at 193 Mansfield Street, tucked 
among Prospect Street, Ingalls Rink, and a number of New 
Haven residences. As I walk toward Mansfield Street on a late 
spring afternoon, I watch the urban drift lazily into the suburban. The 
rumbling traffic two blocks away is a distant buzz. Broken bottles and 
chips of peeled paint liner the sidewalk. Under this film of decay, 
Mansfield Street is an exhausted version of suburbia. 

The Zen Center is a substantial walk up Mansfield Street, and I 
pass by it twice expecting to find a more distinctive building. The cen-
ter's structure mimics that of nearly every other house on the street; its 
new coat of pale blue paint and oval-shaped front window offer it only 
minimal distinction. Looking at the house from a distance, one might 
imagine that it contained anything but a spiritual community center. A 
sign rests inside the front door. It reads, "Welcome. If you are here for 
practice or instructiqn and the door is open, please come in. If the door 
is locked, please ring the bell. Someone will come down to let you in." 
Though I can't believe that anyone leaves their door unlocked in this 
neighborhood, I try twisting the doorknob. It is locked, so I ring the 
bell, feeling a tinge of apprehension at disturbing this house. 
SEPTEMBER 5, 1997 
Someone comes to the door, as the sign promised. He introduces ~ 
himself as Tom Dickinson (SY '78, MUS '83), a practitioner of Zen 5 
who lives at the center. As we walk upstairs through air heavy with ~ 
incense, he invites me to look around. Shoeless, I slip noiselessly ~ 
through a library and into a sitting room that connectS to a kitchen. ~ 
Tom mentions that the center can house up to six people. He leads me ~ 
to the meditation room, which is the largest space in the center. He ~ 
bows so quickly as we enter that I barely notice, but I do the same, for ~ 
fear of exhibiting ignorant disrespect. The room looks the way one ~ 
expects a place called the "dharma room" to look: it boasts hard-wood g 
floors, pictures of past Zen Masters on the white walls, a large bell in ~ 
one corner, and an altar topped with an immense golden buddha -
against the far wall. 

Tom speaks in a whisper in this room, offering information about 
the center. He explains that this center was one of the first three in the 
United States to practice the Kwan Urn School of Zen. On the far wall 
hangs a picture of Korean Zen Master Seung Sahn who started the first 
center of this kind in Providence in 1971. As we complete the tour, 
Tom bids me to rerum whenever I feel the need. He gives me a copy of 
the center's newsletter, Lotus Root. Reading it on the way out, I learn 
that the Zen Center offers free morning and evening meditation, and 
monthly retreats. 


**Title: Migrant Workers**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T 
hese could be the vans. The early morning sky is pitch-
black, but with the lighrs from the Honda directed at them, 
we can see two beat-up white vans parked outside a house 
on Fillmore Street in New Haven's Fair Haven neighbor-
hood. No workers are getting in them yet. We circle. 
We're looking for any sign of the migrant farm workers picked up 
by these vans between 4 and 5 a.m. each morning. We drive slowly on 
Lombard Street, heading back toward Fillmore. Just as we reach the 
corner, we notice two men sitting on the stoop of an apartment build-
ing. One of them is short and wears work boors and jeans. The taller 
man has an earring in one ear. We approach them and ask if they are 
waiting for their ride. At first neither man answers. We know that most 
_ of the workers are from Guatemala and Mexico, so we try asking in 
E Spanish. The taller man says he understands English. "No," he replies. 
~ They are not going to work. We wonder if he is afraid to talk to us. We 
~ get back in the car and stay close by. 


At every rum junky vans with dark tinted windows speed by us, 
~ but none stop. Is this the wrong place? It is 4:20 a.m. but even so sever-
~ al people roam the meets. A man seems to be watching us from his 
~ front porch. The two of us are wary of the neighborhood's reputation as 
~ a hang-out for drug dealers. We circle the block one more rime. 


ln our rearview mirror we see a van stop and pick up the two men 
~ at the corner of Lombard and Poplar. We pull close. It has Florida 
S: license plates. As it passes under a sodium-orange streetlight, we can see 
10 
roughly ten people seated in the back. At the entrance to Interstate 91 
on Ferry Street, the van races onto the highway. We speed behind. 
At chis hour, l-91 traffic is predominantly trucks. We give the van 
space in front of us. If these are the migrant workers, they are going 
either to fruit and vegetable farms in North Haven or to tobacco farms 
near Hartford. The North Haven exirs come up quickly but the van 
stays on 1-91. We begin our hour-long drive towards Hartford. 


he migrant farm workers became big news in New Haven this 
summer. This August morning we are seeking out the resi-
dences of the migrant workers on Fillmore Street-near to the 
house closed down by police last week, where more than 30 migrant 
workers and their families slept on bare floors and ditty mattresses. 
Rafael Ramos, a senior neighborhood specialist with New Haven's Liv-
able City Initiative, says that city officials investigated the property afrer 
receiving complaints from neighbors about garbage and noxious odors 
coming from the building. The house had a dangerously unstable 
chimney and stairs, illegal hook-ups to water and electricity, and crash 
was srrewn everywhere. Newspapers also reponed that the house was 
infested with vermin and reeked of raw sewage. Police arrested the land-
lord, 33-year-old Larry Etolue. Since then, the city has closed down 
similar propenies Etolue had renred to the migrant workers on Fillmore 
Street, Cedar Hill Avenue, May Street, Warren Place, and Woolsey 
Street. 


...,.~·rv.rtr.:~~~n June and August, hundreds of migrant workers from Mexico and 
Guatemala le9ve their over-crowded New Haven apartments to work 
14-hour days in the tobacco fields of the Connecticut Valley. 
"Because of who these people are and me situation they are in, they 
may not complain," Ramos says. Many of the migrant workers have 
come from Mexico and Guatemala and are in this country illegally 
working on Florida farms during me winter harvest and moving up 
north for me summer. The U.S. Immigration and Naruralization Ser-
vice has arrested 50 suspected illegal aliens at one North Haven farm. 
The Florida license plate on me brown van we are following is a 
clue that we are on me right track. We pass through Hartford, swarm-
ing with big buildings and city lights. Soon me van rums off me high-
way at exit 37 in Windsor. It pulls into a Citgo gas station between me 
highway and a small hill to me west. We stop our car and watch from a 
road at me top of me hill. Within minutes, four other vans arrive. The 
doors of me vans slide open and at least 12 people hop out of each one 
and walk into me convenience Store connected to me station. We fol-
low. Inside me store, about 50 men and women pick out various foods. 
They are dressed like farm workers, wearing earth-tone slacks and work 
boots. A group of men heating soup in a microwave speak to each other 
in Spanish. Thirty people are waiting in line at the checkout counter. 
Some of me women balance soda bottles on their heads. They are buy-
ing burritos, cornbread, and chips. This food will nourish them 
through me 14-some-odd hours of backbreaking work at me Culbro 
tobacco farm in West Suffidd, north of Windsor. Their jobs entail 
picking tobacco leaves, gathering them and putting them into baskets, 
hauling the baskets to trucks, and sewing the leaves together. 
SEPTEMBER 5, 1997 
A young man waiting in line has a University of Auburn cap. His 
clothes are similar to those worn by the rest of me farm workers, but he 
is taller than many of me others. He has a thin mustache and a young 
face. Like almost every other migrant worker we meet, this man speaks 
Spanish. He is sofr-spoken and friendly. He says his name is Lalo, he is 
18 years old, and he comes from Florida. He is driving a car full of 
migrants, including himself, to the Culbro farm. Some of me other 
migrant workers in me store are wearing maroon baseball caps with 
"Culbro" printed in white. Lalo likes the work at Culbro because the 
pay is good, $6.30 per hour. Workers also make time-and-a-half on the 
weekends and after 5:30 p.m., and they get bonuses for increased vol-
ume. This encourages them to work long days. He asks if we are look-
ing for farm work. When he learns that we are Yale srudents who live in 
New Haven, he says mat he has been living in New Haven for the sum-
mer. But he says he does not know which street. 


Lalo and me others hand their food to Joe Cicero, the Citgo man-
ager behind the checkout counter. Cicero, a heavy-set man with a thick 
beard, is enthusiastic to meet us. He says that a couple hundred migrant 
workers come through the Citgo between 5:15 and 6,:15 a.m., seven 
days a week. The 34-year-old manager has always lived in me Windsor 
area. When he was in junior high 20 years ago, he remembers that he 
was one of me only srudents who did not pick tobacco during the sum-
mer. Ar least one farm in the area-Arnold's--still employs srudents. 
Cicero believes mat because of increased concern for children's safety, 


**Title:  The Tobacco Harvest**
**Author: Lorm Brody and Sarah Rogers**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
some with "Culbro" emblazoned on the 
side-drive into the Culb.rv farm on Babbs 
Road in West Suffield. The entrance to the 
farm is a dirt road. Beyond the "No Trespass-
ing" sign hundreds of workers unload from 
the vehicles in a haze of dust. 


We drive 30 yards past the "No Trespass-
ing" sign to where me workers ace unloading. 
A small wooden building to the left has a 
number of cars parked in front of it. We stop 
there and get out. Amazed that we've gotten 
as far as we have without being stopped, we 
decide to push our luck, asking a man stand-
ing outside the building for the manager. The 
man takes us inside the single-story building. 
Signs on the door ace in both English and 
Spanish. In a room with one desk against the 
wall, we are introduced to a manager of the 
farm, a portly man With thinning gray hair 
and yellow-stained teeth. We tell him we 
would like to see what happens on the farm 
and what the workers do. He gives a laugh 
several times during our conversation even 
though no jokes have been told. It seems like 
a nervous laugh. We wonder if he's thinking 
about a New Haven Advocate article earlier in 
the week which quoted a lawyer for Culbro 
denying that the farm hired any workers from 
New Haven. Another manager, an older man 
with a cowboy hat, walks into the room. He 
seems less interested in talking to us. Neither 
manager offers his name. but they are willing 
to talk about the farm. The older manager 
responds tersely when ask,.'ed whether the 
workers cause problems. "Does a school 
teacher have problems with his children?" he 
asks us. Shortly afterward, he walks outside. 
The other manager is more willing to help us 
and offers to drive us arQWld the farm. 


We climb into his truck and sit next ro 
him. We learn that on this day 280 workers, a 
typical number, ace out in the fields and sheds 
where the tobacco leaves are stored. He does 
not need to recruit. Aside from the work they 
do on his farm, he claims not to know about 
other aspects of their lives, including where 
they live. 


After a few minutes, he stops at one of the 
many sheds on the farm. The manager walks 
inside as we wait outside by his truck. At the 
side of the shed, we recognize the man with 
the earring who was sitting on the apartment 
building stoop in Fair Haven early this morn-
ing. He sees us but does not show any recog-
nition, continuing his work. The manager 
comes back and we take off. 


As we drive, we get the feeling that the 
manager is particularly glad about three 
things: the size of the farm, the booming cigar 
market, and our company this morning. Since 
June, he has been working the harvest seven 
days a week from 4:30 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. 
Every day he drives 300 to 350 miles around 
the 141-acre farm to make sure everything is 
running okay. As we drive, he points to the 
tobacco plants in the fields: ·~ready sold. 
People are crying for it." Culbro is a division 
of General Cigar Co., owned by the huge 
Culbro Corporation. "We make more cigars 
than anyone else," he says. 


We see workers standing next to rows of 
tobacco. Normally they would be picking, but 
today there is a shortage of buckets in which 
to load the leaves. In the truck, the manager 
gives orders over his walkie-talkie to his subor-
dinates to get the buckets right away. 


The manager pulls the van up to one of 
the sheds where workers sew tobacco leaves. 
From the outside, it looks like a big barn, 
about the area of a tennis court with a high 
roo£ The shed is filled with the sounds of 75 
working laborers: shouting mixed with the 
methodical drone of sewing machines. 


Dozens of men, women, and children with 
yellow, light-blue, and orange construction 
helmets are bent over buckets. Others ~ 
leaves together, while some baJance precari-
ously high up on beams in the roo£ Sun 
streaming in through small h&les in the ceil-
ing illuminates the fine dust which fills the air. 


The manager introduces us to the shed's ~ 
supervisor, Mark. Meanwhile our guide for !!!. 
the day walks around observing the operation. 


Mark takes us over to one of the 12 or so 
sewing tables in the shed to explain how the 
process works. One or rwo people place tobac-
co leaves on the tables while others insert the 
leaves into sewing machines. Beside the 
machines are charts with the workers' identifi-
cation numbers, which are entered into a com-
puter in the central office. The charts keep 
track of the amount of time and work done. 


The workers are not required to work seven 
days a week, but if they do not show up for 
three days in a row, the computer automatical-
ly erases their names and they are fired. 


After the tobacco leaves are sewn onto 
racks, the racks must be lifted to the shed's 
ceiling for drying. We see boys, who look no 
older than 14, standing one above the other 
on narrow wooden beams. Referred to as 
"hangers," they are lifting the racks of tobacco 
leaves to the top of the shed by passing them 
up from one to the other. Mark tells us that 
sometimes the beams break and the boys 
catch themsdves by grabbing the beam above 
them to avoid falling. The boys take turns 
because they get tired. Mark proudly reports 
that none of his boys have gotten hurt, 
though at other farms he has heard that they 
have. 


Although dangerous, the U.S. Depart-
ment of Labor classifies this kind of work as 
legal for 14-year-olds, the youngest workers 
allowed on the f.um. Jim Peckham, Wage and


--- Page 14 ---

A condemnation notice posted on the door of the house at 3 71 Ferry Street demonstrates 
the price migrant workers pay for cheap .housing. 


Hour Division investigator, says that under 
agricultural rules these teenagers cannot drive 
tractors but can perform this task of balancing 
on fragile wooden beams. 


Using 14-year-old boys for this job is not 
the only way in which Culbro clings closely to 
the letter of the law. The $6.30 per hour wage 
that Culbro farm pays its workers is below the 
"prevailing wage" of $6.71 per hour deter-
mined by federal officials in Washington, D.C. 
The prevailing wage must be adhered to by 
farms participating in the federal H-2A pro-
gram, which allows those with an insufficient 
supply of U.S. workers to attain special visas for 
foreign workers. The ptevailing wage is meant 
to protect U.S. laborers from the extremely low 
wages for which the foreign laborers may be 
willing to work. 


However, the Culbro farm does not partic-
ipate in the H-2A program and does not claim 
an insufficient number of U.S. workers, says 
Walter Montes, who handles the program in 
Connecticut for the U.S. Depanment of 
Labor. Because migrant workers arrive en 
masse at Culbro every summer and because 
Culbro's workers must show at least rwo forms 
of photo identification as proof that they are 
legal before they start work, their fieldhands are 
considered U.S. workers. "My assumption is 
that one of the reasons Culbro is not participat-
ing is that they do not want to pay their work-
ers the prevailing wage," Montes says. 


Although it is only a $0.4 i difference, after two 
months of the tobacco harvest, the estimated 
280 workers have accumulated a total of 
$64,288 less than they would have received at 
an H-2A farm. 


In addition, under the H-2A program, 
unlike at the Culbro f.um, employers must 
provide transportation between the workers' 
living quarters and the employer's work sire 
without cost to the worker, if the living quar-
ters are reasonably far from the farm. Montes 
says that the distance to the Culbro farm from 
Fair Haven would be considered reasonably far. 


At the end of the summer, the money that 
the migrant workers rake home is far more 
than they would make in Mexico or other 
Latin American countries for the same work. 
But along their journey from their home coun-
tries, then from the South up to Connecticut, 
then from their temporary quarters in areas like 
New Haven to the f.um, and all the way back, 
various people nibble at their earnings. Migrant 
workers who come to New Haven may already 
have considerable debt. Those who cross the 
border illegally often become indebted ro 
smugglers. Drivers charge them $200 for trans-
portation to Connecticut and $20 a week for 
taking them to the farms. New Haven migrant 
workers have said that the reason they are taken 
to live far from the farm is exactly so that the 
drivers can make more money. Their run-
down homes are ill-equipped for storing food, 
so they must buy breakfast and lunch, which 
costs at least $8 per day. Their rent ranges from 
$600 to $1,500 per month split among the 30 
or so people living in each apartment. With 
what is left, the workers support their families 
who either live temporarily in New Haven or 
remain in Latin America. 


After a while in the shed, we separate from 
Mark, who walks around talking to workers. 
We approach some of them ourselves. One 
woman, who loads tobacco leaves into a sewing 
machine, says she comes from Mexico. She 
explains that one day last week the shed was 
closed because of the dust. "Nobody could 
breathe in here," she says. "It was real bad." 
Our conversations with the workers are cut off 
by the manager, who fetches us and says it is 
time to go. 


Leaves liner the floor and the manager is 
upset. "There's no reason these leaves should be 
falling," he says to Mark on the way out. He 
reveals his agitation with Mark, comparing him 
to a Puerto Rican supervisor in a more orga-
nized shed. "The funny thing is I got the white 
guy in there and the Puerto Rican guy here and 
the Puerto Rican guy's doing better." We get 
back in the manager's truck and drive toward 
his office. 


A
t noon, the workers are given a 30-
rninute lunch break. Workers from the 
fields pile into gteen Culbro buses to 
escape the sun. They eat the food purchased at 
the Cirgo station earlier in the morning. Under 
federal law, there are no required meal breaks 
for the migrant workers. If not for Connecticut 
state law, which requires the 30-minuce meal 
break for all laborers working more than seven 
and a half hours, the f.um could work them 24 
hours a day, seven days a week. 


The workers are not given another break 
until 5:30p.m., this time for 15 to 30 minutes. 
Each receives a McDonald's hamburger, a bag 
of potato chips, and a Pepsi, all paid for by Cui-
bro. The workers used to get french fries in 
addition to their burgers but it was costing the 
farm $1,1 00 per day, less than $4 per worker 
but more than Culbro wanted to spend. By 
eliminating the fries, Culbro slashed their food 
costs in half, down to less than $2 per worker. 


After eating, the workers rerum to the fields 
and sheds. 


Usually the f.um closes for the day at 8 p.m. 
The migrant workers climb back into their 
vans, cars, and buses for the commute home. 


--- Page 15 ---

Those going to New Haven prepare for their 
hour-and-a-half ride after an exhausting day. 


t night we visiS some of the migrant 
workers who have returned from work 
to Fair Haven. Leaning on the dilapi-
dated railing of a porch, one young Mexican 
man, who declined to give his name, seems 
used to the smell of the raw sewage seeping out 
into the warm air from his Fillmore Street 
house. He wears a soiled green polo shirt, blue-
jeans more black than blue, and he looks tired. 
Curious but shy, he seems to hide behind a 
pole on the porch. He has picked tobacco since 
July and shares his excitement with us at the 
prospect of returning to see his family in Chia-
pas, Mexico. 


A woman from Guatemala, who also lives 
in this house, stands on the porch next to the 
man from Chiapas while her four children play 
in the street. She has specks of gray in her dark 
hair and wears a homemade blouse, brown 
with dirt. An elderly white neighbor of theirs 
makes her way slowly down the street toward 
them carrying bags of groceries. She stops to 
speak to the children. "Nice day," she says as 
she pulls cookies from one of her grocery bags 
and gives them to the children. "They are nice 
people," she says of her-neighbors as she smiles. 
"Sometimes I feel real sorry for them." She 
walks slowly away to her house next door and 
disappears inside. 


Meanwhile, the children quickly munch 
the cookies and their smiles reveal sets of rot-
ten teeth. When asked if they can speak Eng-
lish, the two girls nod their heads eagerly. They 
explain that they will rerum to Florida with 
their mother and father in a few weeks to 
resume school. Their mother watches cau-
tiously from the front porch, unable to speak 
English. When asked where they consider 
their homes to be, the girls quickly answer, 
"Florida." They have lived there for ten years, 
they say, but traVel in the summer to places 
where their father can find better work. They 
hope their father, who is working in the Con-
necticut tobacco fields, will return home from 
work soon. Afrer finishing their cookies, they 
run off laughing. For them, this day is liktMI 
other. 


Lorm Brody, a senior in Silliman, is on tht staff 
oflNJ. Sarah Rogm, a junior at tht Univmi-
IJ of North Carolina, Chaptl Hill, attnukd tht 
Yak Summn Program. 


**Title: Straight from the Gift Horse's Mouth**
**Author: Gabriel Snyder**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When Larry Kramer (BR '57) first decided to bequest his entire estate to Yale, he thought it would be a simple affair. "I didn't think there'd be a problem in the world. I thought, hey shit, they're gonna love me. How many people show up with this?" Kramer's "this" was $5 million, money he made from writing screenplays which his brother profitably invested for him. According to Kramer, Yale would have received an original $5 million, and depending on the performance of his investments, an additional amount upon his death, which Kramer estimates could have been $5 to $10 million more. 
The hitch, though, was that Kramer would only give Yale the money if it endowed a professor in a gay or lesbian topic or built a gay and lesbian student center. 

The instant The New York Times, U.S. News & World Report, and Time reported this past July that Yale had refused Kramer's terms and Kramer had withdrawn his offer, the H-word popped up: homophobia. William Rubenstein (MC '82), former director of the Lesbian and Gay Rights Project of the ACLU and presently a professor at the UCLA Law School, dashed off a letter to President Levin the day after the Times story appeared, threatening to withhold his donations to the university and scoffing at Yale's argument that gay and lesbian studies is too narrow a field to justify an endowed faculty chair. "This excuse, in the context of a university the size and depth of Yale, struck me as so preposterous that it revealed that Yale's decision must have been driven by little more than homophobia," Rubenstein wrote. "This seems especially so because a preeminent expression of homophobia is the denial and erasure of homosexual expression (this is, after all, 'the love that dare not speak its name'); Yale's actions reek of such prejudice." 

As for Kramer, he points to the English department's decision to deny tenure to Wayne Koestenbaum as an example of Yale's hostility to scholars of gay literature. But Koestenbaum, now a professor at the City University of New York, is not as quick to come to the conclusion that Yale is a homophobic place. Koestenbaum appeals to the literal meaning of the word homophobia ("fear of homos") and argues that fear is a psychic condition. "And where is the psyche at Yale?" Koestenbaum asks. "Yale is a complicated institution composed of many individuals, interests, histories, directions, and wills. We're not talking about a psyche here. We're talking about a governing body that doesn't act benignly all the time. About such a complicated place, you can't say: Yale is homophobic." 

Koesrenbaum's comment highlights the crux of the dispute between Kramer and Yale: on the one side there is the institution, Yale University, and on the other there is Larry Kramer, the individual psyche. So far, discussions of Kramer's gift have attempted to equate Kramer and Yale as entities of the same order. An article in the Village Voice blew Kramer up to represent all of gay studies, pitting him against the entire academic establishment. The New York Times presented Provost Alison Richard (Hon. MA '86), who reviews all bequests to the university, as the embodiment of Yale-an individual going up against Larry Kramer mano a mano. Neither distortion approximates the truth. Kramer and Yale each acted according to vastly different motivations. 

Even before Richard could consider whether Yale should host an endowed chair in gay and lesbian studies, the pressures of bureaucratic policies within the university prevented her from accepting Kramer's gift. In the early 1990s, budgetary concerns instigated a freeze on faculty hiring. Since that time, for every new endowed chair, a senior faculty position elsewhere in the university must be eliminated. Even though Kramer's gift would have funded the cost of the position, Richard says she could not have accepted Kramer's offer because it would open the floodgates to more requests for new faculty positions. "As soon as there is one exception, I will have faculty from all corners of the campus saying, 'I have donors, too,'" Richard says. Though she claims Yale would not have accepted the gift even if the freeze was not in place, the provost's commitment to administrative policy comes first. 

Charles Porter (GRD '62), chairman of the Research Fund for Lesbian and Gay Studies committee (REFIAGS), was put in an equally awkward position. As the head of this group, he is responsible for assuring that Yale adequately supports gay and lesbian studies and is understandably in agreement with many of Kramer's criticisms of Yale. However, Porter's committee recommended against a gay and lesbian student center and made no recommendation on the endowment of a professor. "I must say I agree with the university's position," Porter says. Porter feels that there is not a strong enough demand for a gay student center and fears that one would marginalize gay and lesbian undergraduates. On the proposal of a new professor, Porter says, "There should be a continuing interest in gay and lesbian studies," but accepting Kramer's gift was not feasible. "If we are going to have one person who is going to be appointed, how would we ever decide which field it would be in?" 

Kramer's pressure on Yale to show its commitment to gay and lesbian studies has benefitted REFIAGS. The fund will move into a staffed office this month and a brochure is going out to alumni under the aegis of the university to encourage more donor support of gay and lesbian studies. These gains may look small, but Porter says his committee has been trying to do these things for years. "We were moving in that direction before, but I think we got there more quickly because of Kramer," he says. As the beneficiary of the administration's good will, REFIAGS was not in a position to battle with the provost's office. Porter says, "I didn't find it appropriate to fight." 

In the middle of Kramer's negotiations with Yale, Richard asked him to meet with some lesbian, bisexual, and gay students currently attending Yale to get their comments on his proposals. Richard speculates, "He is concerned that students might have the same experience that he had in the 1950s. I appreciate that concern on his part, but I don't think that he recognizes that the times have changed since the 1950s." Since the time that Yale turned him down, Kramer says that many schools, including Columbia, the University of Chicago, Johns Hopkins, and Brown, have approached him about endowing a professor. But Kramer says he is not interested in donating his money to another school. He says, "Tony Kushner teases me, 'Why do you want your money to go to such an elitist institution?'" Kramer says it was his miserable college years at Yale that made him want to give money to the school. "I don't know. It probably goes back to being so terribly unhappy there, trying to kill myself, succeeding almost in spite of Yale and not because of it, and still having this almost adolescent dream that I would come back and make it a better place so that kids wouldn't have to go through what I went through." 

"Yale then was fraternities and prep schools," Kramer explains. Kramer's older brother, father, and two uncles all went to Yale before him, but he was hardly a child of privilege; Kramer came from a middle class Jewish family. "I was a high school kid from Washington on a scholarship." Though Kramer couldn't identify with the hordes of Andover and Exeter kids that surrounded him, it was his sexuality that did the most to set him apart. "The word 'gay' didn't exist," Kramer says, "but I knew that I had feelings that I didn't know what to do with. I don't know that I dwelled on them or could verbalize them. I just knew that I had strong emotional feelings for boys that I didn't have for girls. There was no place to put it. How do you find another person like yourself?" 

Kramer's first sexual experience with a boy occurred even before high school. "I had sex with a kid in junior high school, so I knew what that was," he says. "But it was always something that you did that you regretted, certainly because I didn't see anybody else around me and there wasn't anybody to talk to about it at all." Unable to find any other gay students at Yale, Kramer became involved with one of his professors. "At the end of my freshman year, one of my professors seduced a very willing me. We had a brief affair since it was the end of the year and he was going off on a year's sabbatical." In Kramer's quasi-autobiographical novel Faggots, he writes of a similar situation: 

I'm going to be a faggod I'm going to be a faggod Boo Boo had first realized with terror two years ago during his junior year at Yale when the distinguished gray-haired portly, gentile professor of his History of Art: Greek Sarcophagi class suggested they have a tete-a-tete in his book-walled house on Chapel Street "to discuss the argument put forth in your paper on the marble frieze of Noxos." After six-and-one-half glasses of some fancy vintage wine, Boo from a very early age not being a cheap date, he was laid back, as he somehow knew he would be, and, shivering with the apprehensions and expectations of the guilty, cursed, and damned, which he also knew he would be ... 

Kramer says his actual relationship with the professor was healthy for him. "He was a nice man, and he was the first person who said, 'You know, there are more of us out there.'" But Kramer learned this only after he tried to commit suicide because he felt like the "only gay kid at Yale." It was this memory that made Kramer initially more interested in building a gay student center than endowing a professor. 

"Academic achievement back then was prized for zilch. A lot of people did well in school, but they had to show somehow that they did something else, a sport or the Glee Club or singing groups." Kramer was accepted into the Glee Club his sophomore year and was part of a singing group called the Augmented Seven which specialized in calypso songs. "That was basically what kept me alive. It gave me a social life and something to do." 

After Kramer graduated with an English degree in 1957, he spent most of the 1960s in England writing screenplays, his most famous being Women in Love. Kramer described his time in England in a recent interview with the British newspaper The




**Title: Larry Kramer's Legacy**
**Author: Gabriel Snyder**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Guardian. "I was very happy in England," 
he said. "I was psychoanalyzed every day." 
In the 1970s, Kramer returned to the U.S. 
and moved to N~ York. In Faggots, 
Kramer depicts the New York gay commu-
nity at the time as a non-stop orgy. The 
point of the novel, though, is that promis-
cuity debases personal relationships, and 
the main character struggles to find a true 
emotional commitment. Today, Kramer, 
who is infected with HIV, says, "If you ask 
most gay men what being gay means, they 
will say it means having sex with another 
man. I'm saying that that's not only what 
gay means. But as long we continue to be 
so blinded, we're going to continue to lcill 
ourselves. We have to create a wider culture 
that doesn't murder us." 


From his secluded house on a lake 
somewhere in Connecticut, Kramer 
laments. "My pristine home in the 
country 
is 
becoming 
a 
warehouse." 
Kramer's lover of four years, David Web-
ster, an architect, is moving things into 
their house. Amidst stacks of boxes, 
Kramer says, with a slight satis-
faction 
under-
neath his annoy- · 
ance, 
"It's what 
happens when you get married. 
You'll see." At age 62, 
Kramer is trying to settle 
down and gain the sort of 
social legitimacy he has long 
sought. 
Beyond 
the headaches 
of 
moving, 
Kramer's new domestic 
life pushed his attention 
to other details. "With 
the relationship pretty solid 
now, I decided that it was time to get my 
will in order." The will he drew up would 
have left a certain percentage of his estate 
to his lover and given the rest to Yale. Now, 
unsure of where his money will go, Kramer 
is considering starting an independent 
foundation to support gay and lesbian 
research. 


Kramer's approach to gay rights has 
long been integrationist. He says the inclu-
sion of lesbians and gays in education is 
one of his new concerns, complete with a 
new mantra: "We pay taxes so we should be 
taught in schools the same way everybody 
else is taught." Though his gift has been 
framed as a test of the legitimacy of gay 
studies in academia, Kramer sees it as a test 
of the legitimacy of gays in society in gen-
eral. Kramer, who dismisses the supporters 
of gay studies as "fighting to have sex in the 
bushes and fuck on the subway," has criti-
cized much of the queer theory that has 
been produced by gay studies. "There is a 
disturbing trend in gay studies, and in all 
studies, to teach things so annoyingly irrel-
evant to life as we live it," he says. The sort 
of research he would like to see done is the 
sort John Boswell (Hon. MA '82), the Yale 
history professor who died in 1994, did on 
same-sex unions in the Catholic Church of 
the middle ages. 


Much as gay marriage has been sup-
ported as a way of normalizing gays and 
lesbians, Kramer believes that including 
gays in history and literature would change 
the way they are seen in society. Kramer 
has been writing a book called The Ameri-
can People for the last two decades which, 
when it is finished, will be a fictional 
account of American history highlighting 
the roles of gays. One of the pet the-
ories he has formulated from research 
for the book is that Abraham 
Lincoln had a male lover. 
"Everybody looks at me like 
I'm crazy when I say some-
thing like that," 
says, 
"because it is so 
out of the realm of 
possibility that the best 
president that this coun-
try ever had actually lived with 
another man for 
four years. He slept 
in the same bed 
with a man named Joshua Speed, and they 
exchanged love letters of great passion." 
Kramer recognizes that few, if any, histori-
ans believe his theory, but that is the point. 
"What if he were? Wouldn't it change the 
way this country thought about gay pea-
ple? Wouldn't it change the way gay people 
thought about gay people?" 


Kramer's gift and it's rejection has 
stoked a hot debate. Some are pas-
sionate in their belief that he tried 
to go too far as a donor. Was he trying to 
buy gay studies' way into Yale? Kramer 
says, "Of course academia's not for sale, but 
it sells itself every day of the week." Case in 
point, earlier this year, the heads ofYahoo!, 
the Internet directory service, gave Stan-
ford University $2 million to endow the 
Yahoo! Founders Professor of the Stanford 
School of Engineering. 


At Yale, President Richard Levin (GRD 
'74) says the university attempts to dis-
courage restricted donations. But a signifi-
cant number of endowed positions are 
restricted to a specific field within a larger 
discipline. Levin says the administration 
draws the line when a gift is meant to 
change the direction of the curriculm. 
"The basic principle," Levin says, "is that 
we simply don't let donors determine the 
subjects of study at Yale. That is the job of 
the faculty, and it is, by and large, a job 
very well done." 


But the history of a place like Yale, 
where every building, bench1 tree, and cob-
blestone is named for someone, is very 
much the history of headstrong donors. In 
the Faculty of Arts and Science, which 
includes Yale College and the Graduate 
School, Yale has 167 endowed full profes-
sors which make up about 40 percent of all 
senior faculry positions. The university 
depends on and aggressively solicits the 
financial support of its alumni. Interesting-
ly, Kramer says that it was Yale that 
approached him first about leaving his 
money to the university. Seven or eight 
years ago, someone from the development 
office, which had heard he had a bit of 
money, went to New York to discuss the 
possibility. Kramer said he was only inter-
ested if he could leave the money to "some-
thing gay." The development office gave 
the initial go-ahead on the gift, but noth-
ing came of it until last year. 


Kramer protests that he isn't trying to 
buy into the university, but of course, to 
some degree, he is. He had very personal 
motivations for offering his gift. But in 
that, no doubt, Kramer is not very differ-
ent than all the hundreds and thousands of 
donors whose names now garnish the cam-
pus and the faculty directory. 

Gabritl Snyder, a smior in Btrktky Coikgt, 
is tht tditor-in-chiif ofTNJ. 


**Title: Tower One-Tower East**
**Author: Asa Piyaka**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
For the last year I've been going 
to Tower One-Tower East, a 
home for elderly people, every 
week. Run through a Jewish orga-
nization, the two buildings house 
several hundred independent older 
people. I was paired with one man 
through the "Adopt-a-Grandpar-
ent" program. We talked about 
everything from O.J. Simpson to 
religion to race. Over time I began 
visiting others as well. Mostly I 
just listened to their stories. At 
first the hours of listening bored 
me and all the details seemed like 
heavy ballast. But somewhere dur-
ing the in-betweens I caught 
glimpses of the way a story told 
and filtered and reshaped again 
pulses with a subtle energy. The 
story-tellers stick in my mind: 
Old Mrs. Kifare standing with 
arms outstretched in the rain like 
Christ crucified. Bessie Frye who 
nightly grinds the wheels of her 
rusted exercise bike though her 
eyes can't see well enough to read. 
And Morton Bernard-Cohen, who 
built a war-time canoe out of 
palm bark in the South Pacific and 
spent 40 years chained to a factory 
time-card, just to get copper poi-
soning and lay in a coma for seven 
years. A week after awakening he 
drove out into the countryside 
and began digging a pond. I wish 
I could have captured him there in 
a picture: intent upon some dream, 
for an unknown reason, but still 
to be done.


Asa Piyaka, a senior in Jonathan 
Edwards College, is photography 
editor of TNJ.



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Mort Cohen**
**Page number(s): 23**

"Dying ain't 
nothing but a 
bunch of sleep and 
there I'll find my 
halcyon home." 
-Mort Cohen


**Author: Bessie Frye**
**Page number(s): 24**

"I tend my plants like little children and the rest I leave as junk." -Bessie Frye



**Title:  SEPTEMBER 5• 1997**
**Author: William Faulkner**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"And if you haven't 
got honor and pride, 
then nothing 
matters. Only there 
is something in you 
that doesn't care 
about honor and 
pride yet that lives, 
that even walks 
backward for a 
whole year just to 
live; that probably 
even when this is 
over and there is not 
even defeat left, will 
still decline to sit still 
in the sun and die, 
but will be out in the 
woods, moving and 
seeking where just 
will and endurance 
could not move it." 
-William Faulkner, 
Absalom! Absalom!


<br>

**Title: Home Sweet Home, Again**
**Author: Dorie Boufides**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

T
he housing proctor called out the name of my future roommate. 
She calmly walked to the front of the Morse library and surveyed 
the fan of cards offered to her. Her eyes ran across them twice. 
She took a deep breath. 
Every student in the Morse class of 1999 stood in the room last April 
tensely awaiting the outcomes of the housing lottery. Each group of 
prospective roommates had appointed a representative who was to par-
ticipate in a game of chance. The selection of a single card would deter-
mine which suite was to be banished to Old Campus annex housing. We 
waited as my roommate prepared to select the card containing our fare. 
Anyone familiar with the phenomenon of Yale housing draws has 
seen or experienced a scene like this. Droves of frightened students cluster 
into small groups like cattle waiting to be slaughtered; neither cunning 
nor caution can spare them. Luck rules supremely and indiscriminately. 
In anticipation of this event, students scramble to mold themselves 
into perfect rooming material. This process includes paring down groups 
of friends into convenient numbers or hunting down those gullible 
unfottunates willing to take a double. 
Unfortunately, the hunger for the perfect room often brings out a 
student's ugly side. I have seen secret plots to oust roommates and suites 
split into rival factions. Some become so blinded by their goal that they 
are willing to do anything to achieve it. One Stiles student was so des-
perate for a single room that he posted signs offering a television and a 
bicycle in exchange for a place in a suite with an open single. Friendships 
crash and burn; tension created by the housing process amplifies the 
tiniest pet peeves, nurturing them into bitter animosity. I know a group 
of Morse women who refused to live with a roommate again simply 
because she would constantly lock the phone in her bedroom. More 
shouting matches occur during the weeks before the draw than any 
other time of year. 
Dorie Boufides 
Not all students cope with the stress of housing in the same way, of 
course. Men and women react very differently. Every year at the housing 
draw I see men cheering the misfortunes of others, while women superficially 
console one another. Men seize the rare opportunity to go to war. 
They become self-preservational and combative. Wary of commitment, 
they end up in small groups. Men are unwilling to, as Ben Franklin said, 
"hang together." Women, on the other hand, are too afraid to "hang sep-
arately." Impractical groups of ten or 12 women are common. We hate to 
say no. What kind of bitch would reject her own roommate?-well, at 
least to her face. The gender gap is alive and well, thanks to the Yale 
housing draw. 
My group had managed to avoid these pitfalls. We numbered five 
women, a conveniently small, but not too small, number. Other students 
eager to join us and other groups looking to relieve us of a member made 
us offers, but we had the self-possession to politely decline. And most 
importantly, we managed to keep our friendships intact. Never once did 
any of us, roommates and friends since freshman year, let discussion 
about rooming plans affect how we felt about each other. 
So we were set-or so we thought. All we had to worry about was 
the night of the draw. Our overcrowded class of 1999 needed to squeeze 
into every available bed in Morse, but even that was not enough; the fifth 
floor of Durfee was opened as a junior annex. My roommates and I knew 
this part of Durfee, or the Gables, as it is popularly known, quite well. 
We had lived there freshman year. It had fantastic suites, with vaulted 
ceilings, skylights, and the biggest common rooms at Yale. It was well 
worth the steep five-flight climb. 
Every suite in our class had an equal chance of being annexed, but 
the five of us considered ourselves immune. What were the odds of being 
placed in the same room twice? We planned on a fresh start for the new 
year, a comfortable suite in Morse College near our friends. Durfee was 
THE NEW JOURNAL 

And now, at the crowded housing lottery, our fate was about to be 
determined. My roommate's eyes lingered on the cards. Finally, she thrust 
her hand to one and pulled it from the rest. After a barely perceptible hes-
itation she turned it over, gazing at its face with a blank expression. 
She held the card up for all to see. 
"Two of spades!" cried the housing proctor. I sank into my chair. The 
two of spades! A sympathetic murmur, tinged with relief, ran through the 
room. Such a low card could mean only one thing: the annex. Morse 
annexed us to the same suite we had lived in two years before. It was 
almost as if an invisible hand had reached down and erased all the time 
that had elapsed. I was to be a naive freshman once again, moving onto 
Old Campus, wondering who my friends would be, which classes to 
pick. Every room, every corner, every footfall would remind me of an old 
flame, an old argument, an estranged friend. The memories seemed 
insurmountable. 
A summer later, it was moving day. I let out a sigh as I looked up at 
Durfee. Lapsing into an old habit, I craned my neck to try to see my 
rooftop window. I lugged my first box up the familiar five flights. As I 
approached the top, wheezing, I cursed each step. But the steps had 
known me for a long time; I'm sure they understood. Finally, I reached 
the summit and strode into the old suite. I was immediately over-
whelmed by the size of the common room. The ceiling seemed to stretch 
into infinity. Light bounced off the walls. A breeze swirled about, so fresh 
I could smell it; someone must have already arrived and opened the win-
dows. 
As I looked around the room, I visualized our old furniture arrange-
ment. The TV there, the pink chair there. When I pictured our favorite 
blue couch I could almost see my younger self sitting on it. I remem-
bered holding a camcorder, videotaping my friends as they did inane 
SEPTEMBER 5• 1997 
things. They moved in and out of the frame self-consciously, laughing,  
making bad jokes. "Are you hungry?" one boy asked the camera. Then,  
as if it were a person, he tried to feed it a cookie. 
I shifted my gaze to the corner of the common room and again I saw 
a sort of apparition, recalling a memory long forgotten. I saw myself 
studying for Art History 115 at 6 a.m., only hours before the final. A 
roommate and I, both in the same class, had crafted a miniature mural 
made up of every painting we were required to identify. 
"What's this one?" she fired, pointing to a tiny picture. 
"Um ... no wait, I know this ... Girl Under Japan Umbrella, by ... 
Kirchner, 1909!" 
My reverie was broken as one of my roommates emerged from her 
room. We squealed and hugged each other in delight. Obligatory how- 
was-your-summer-mine-was-fine's followed. Then we trailed off into a 
strange silence. After a moment I turned to find her gazing about the 
room, as was I. 
"It's not how I thought it would be, being back here," I offered. 
"Me neither," she replied. 
Another silence. "Do you remember when we bought the Christmas 
tree? It was covered with ice, and we had to drag it all the way up here. It 
was so beautiful when we finished decorating it, though, wasn't it?" We 
both smiled at the memory, which led to another, then another. As we 
reminisced a kind of weight lifted from my chest. Perhaps our history in 
this great room would not hold us back. We would join our old memo-
ries with our future ones in a way no other Yale student could. 
"You know, this might not be so bad, after all," my friend said. 
I agreed. It might not be so bad. 
Dorie Boufides, a junior in Morse College, is a managing editor of TNJ. 



**Winged Words: The trans-Atlantic correspondence of two literary giants**
**Author: Dana Goodyear**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
--- Page 28 ---

Winged Words 
The trans-Atlantic correspondence of two literary giants 
by Dana Goodyear 
The Letters of Gertrude Stein and Thornton Wilder, Edited by Edward Burns 
and Ulla E. Dydo with William Rice (Yale University Press, 1.996), pp. 452. 
• 
''0 
H, DEAR, I WISH I WERE THERE 
instead of in this New Haven 
that I never did and never shall 
like," Thornton Wilder sighed in a letter to 
Gertrude Stein on the seventh of June 1938. 
The letter is now published among The Letters 
of Gertrude Stein and Thornton Wilder, a work 
containing the correspondence from 1934 ·to 
1946 of this literary Caseor and Pollux. Or 
rather, Jack Sprat and spouse, for Wilder and 
Stein had little in common excepting their 
fume. Their utterly different styles are arranged 
next to each other in this volume as point and 
counterpoint, but the dialogue is little like a 
correspondence in the true sense of that word. 
There is no accord or conformity to their epis-
tolary effortS; one letter does not provide the 
analogue for its answer. 


On the seventh of June, Stein was presiding 
over the domus she shared with Alice B. Toklas 
outside of Paris in Bilignin, doting on her pup 
Basket, lunching with the Picabias, and strug-
gling to publish. Wilder was berween engage-
ments. He roosted momentarily at the home of 
his mother and sisters on Deepwood Drive. In 
his letter he yearns himself out of New Haven 
to the place they are, casting out to "Gertralici-
tude" with a series of rhetorical questions. 
Aie you all well? 
And the dogs? 
And Madame Giroud and Ia baronne? 
Are you driving carefully around the funher 
side of the Lake? 
Are you honking devastatingly in from of 
the bread, butter, and vegetable shops? 
Are the paths in great need of attention? 
Gestures from this same school of longing-
for transportation, for alternative experience--
filled my letters of this summer, from this New 
Haven that I never did like (no, it's not truly so, 
but for the sake of identity with Gertrude's 
"Thomi dear") to the far reaches of the postal 
service. The Thornton Wtl.der stamps that 
facilitated my armchair traveling, in this cen-
tennial year of his birth, heightened my iden-
tification with his mad wavings and blown 
kisses. My letters reached Costa Rica and 
Switzerland, Greece and Italy, along with 
Wilder's round wire specs. We were a pair of 
yoyeurs. 


Neither Wilder -nor l meant truly or only 
that we wished to be in Italy, Costa Rica, 
Bilignin. The voyeur-par-avian intends some- . 
thing a little bit more. The impulse to write, 
"Oh, dear, I wish t were there instead of here" 
is a more sociable, acceptable way of writing 
"Oh, dear, I wish I were you, where you are 
reading this account of me." Letter-writing is a 
form of travel that moves at once toward the 
letter's destination and into the psyche of the 
person reading the letter. 


In those pauses, hand on the coffee. cup, pen 
bleeding on the quilt, when I consider the next 
phrase to turn or event to chronicle, the reverie 
is one of my own life and the life of the person 
who will read the letter. When I write letters, 
the reader's voice ricochetS through my brain. 
My representations are based on how it is that I 
imagine they imagine me. Through and with 
them I experience vicariously my degree of sar-
casm or wistfulness or bravado. In letters, as 
perhaps in no other literary form, one crafts a 
self for a reader with complete intentionality 
and transparency. The letter is the confluence 
of the journal and the novella, autobiographical 
and fictional, and panicular to a single reader. 


A letter takes its form from its occasion. The 
self that it constructs is created to impact the 
reader in a specific way, to impart certain tid-
bits, omit others. My thank-you notes are chip-
per and sturdy without fail. Love letters at once 
guarded and swollen with description. Letters 
to long-lost friends both tentative and intimate; 
to strangers, humble with a sl_ow drip of irony. 


It is important to remember m reading the let-
ters that passed berween Wilder and Stein that 
there was an agenda to these letters as well, 
determining in more and less subtle ways the 
matter of each letter. 


The Wtl.der-Stein correspondence was not a 
spontaneous bloom of love and admiration 
that developed organically alongside a flesh-
and-blood friendship. They began their 
exchange nearly as strangers, gushing from the 
get-go. The number of times in their lives that 
they saw each other lagged far behind the num-
ber of letters that they wrote back and forth. 
Though Wtl.der read Stein's work attentively, 
by his estimate she only ever read Heaven's My 
Destination. 


--- Page 29 ---

Wilder's position as the darling of the Amer-
ican literary scene gave Stein a pragmatic rea-
son for pursuing a relationship with the 
younger writer. She sought publication ardent-
ly; Wtl.der had his finger on the pulse. He liter-
ally introduced Stein, more than once writing 
the foreword to a book of hers which made it 
publishable and saleable. The editors of the col-
lection explicate this dynamic in a footnote. 
Stein and Wtl.der played elaborate parts in a 
~ 
relationship. Wtl.der, well connected, 
succrssful, and expert at popularizing ideas, 
helped to introduce Stein's work ro resistant 
American readers in books that might not 
have been published without his interven-
tion: the Namllitm lectures, the GrographicaJ 
Hiswry of America. and, after her death, Four 
in Ammca. Wtlder in rum gained greatly 
from Srein's friendship and from the power 
of her mind to free him from excessive con-
straints. 


It seems dear from the nature of their let-
ters and from the objective knowledge of their 
respective prospects, that despite this editorial 
attempt to demonstrate reciprocity, and despite 
Wt.lder's own excessive protestations of how 
much he owed Stein, Stein had more to gain 
from her pen pal than he had from her. 


Stein often hinted at ways beyond writing 
introductions that Wtlder could be of help to 
her. Using his connections in Hollywood 
would do wonders: 
we just want to run around and do nothing 
and be payed largely for it ... it is a pleasant 
xtravagance and we are just pining for pleas-
ant xrravagance, so keep your eyes and ears 
open, if they want us we will come, we 
would love to be payed largely and we are 
tired of just staying here and beside it is 
becoming roo high to live in Europe like 
that, we are nutting in the woods and then 
Alice makes cakes of the nuts, which is a 
pleasant life too, but a vacance paye and it 
might be with you dear Thornton and lots 
oflove 
Gtde. 


There was a certain utility to the relation-
ship that Stein leaves ~biguous. She steadi-
ly insists on "collaboration" with Wtlder: 
will you but you would never say no to me 
but wiU you really will you, ever since my 
earliest days when I read Erckman Chatri-
an's !'Ami Fritz. in what language I do not 
know I have loved the word collaborate and 
I always always wanted to and now wiU you 
oh Thornton will you coUaborate on Ida the 
Novel, we must do it together not now like 
you did the commentaries and the other 
[facsimile ...... ?] but really and really and 
truly just like Erckman and Chatrian, a real-
ly truly novel is too much for me all alone 
we must do it together. 


It cannot have been far from Stein's thoughts 
that Wtlder had by this time won the first of 
his three Pulitzer prizes {for The Bridge of San 
Luis &y, 1928). He had earned both fortune 
and a place in the rarefied circle of American 
letters. Co-authorship would ensure publica-
tion. 


Wt.lder's motivations are less scrutable. He 
certainly took inspiration from his conversa-
tions with Stein, and more importandy from 
his reading of her work. 
I can no longer conceal from you that I am 
writing the mosr beautiful little play you can 
imagine.... This play is an immersion, 
immersion into a New Hampshire town. It's 
SEPTEMBER 5, 1997 
called "Our Town" and its third acr is based 
on your ideas, as on great pillars, and whether 
you know it or nor, until further notice, 
you're in a deep-knit coUaboration already. 


This was the kind of collaboration in which 
Wtlder was interested: digestion and reformula-
tion of ideas raised by Stein. She was in charge of 
metaphysics, he wrote. He attributes the philo-
sophical basis for Our Town to The Making of 
Americans. But the fact that Wt.lder did not want 
anything per se from Stein does not mean that 
their relationship was useless to him. The dis-
tinction remains that his work profited, while 
Stein may have sought profit in a more concrete 
sense. 


This difference between them is legible. 
W1Jder's are the letters of an interested reader 
and scholar of Stein's work, who wrote both in 
exploration of these ideas and for the sake of 
writing itsel£ Wtlder's letters also carried out a 
social courtesy, responding to the attentions of 
the famed Miss Stein. There is, on the other 
hand, an urgency about Stein's letters which her 
characteristic open syntax-non-syntax--exac-
erbates. Every letter documents a want, a need, a 
desperate please please please, don't say don't say 
no. Stein's letters demand (contacts, favors, 
American books, visits by Wtlder), while 
Wilder's deflect, reflect, and describe. The result 
is that a letter by Wtlder is vaguely intoxicating, 
piquant, deft. A Stein letter reads like a water-
drinking COntest. 


The roles they played were staged, or one 
might say, written. They defined themselves 
along the slanting, smeared border of ink where 
their relationship was born and where it ulci-
matdy died. Stein was the genius of the faraway 
place of ideas who could not negotiate the world 
of commercial literature on her own; Wt.lder was 
the snappy student v0to could spin the big ideas 
into marketable litde packages. These are the 
selves that they constructed and, through the 
course of their correspondence, conspired to 
nunure. 


Their correspondence broke off suddenly, due 
in part to the exigencies of World War 11-
Wilder was serving as a lieutenant colond and 
Stein was in occupied France-and in part to 
Wtlder's failure to write back. Stein died. Wtlder 
had not written. In his letter of condolence to 
Alice (dated October 8, 1946, over two months 
after Stein's death) Wilder excuses himself with a 
piece of wisdom gleaned from Gertrude: 
My poignant self-reproach at not having 
wrinen her is acute. It doesn't help that I 
remember that she taught me how all those 
audience-acriviries--" anicles," 
lener-writ-
ing, and conversation itself are impure at the 
source. 


Post-facto, when his correspondent can no 
longer respond, Wtlder admits what every 
letter-writer knows: that the reader is an 
audience, that the written self is a mere per-
formance. 


IIIJ 
Dana Goodyear, a senior in Davenport Colkge, 
is a managing editor ofTNJ. 
A postcard smt by Stein to WiU/er-from the Yale Collection of Americ4n Literatu" at the 
Beineclu Library, which inclu.Ms the papers of both Thornton Wiltkr and Gertrtuk Stein. 
29 


**Coup at the Co-op: The Co-op has been ousted. Let the revolution begin!**
**Author: Alec Hanley Bemis**
**Page number(s): 30**

--- Page 30 ---

Coup at the Co·op 
The Co-op has been ousted. 
Let the revolution begin! 
by Alec Hanley Bemis 
P
resident Harry Berkowitz answers his phone. "Execu-
tive offices ... ?" No answer. "Executive offices ... ?" No 
answer. There are problems with the phone lines but this 
kind of thing is to be expected in the midst of a revolution. 
Berkowitz, the leader of the Yale Co-op, sits in his fifth-floor bunker 
at 900 Chapel Street, right off the New Haven Green. He is just set-
cling into the command center of the Yale Co-op's provisional business 
offices and, as with any new base of operations, there. are some kinks to 
be worked out. 


Appealing to the public's perpetual fascination with civic unrest, the 
Co-op began touting its new revolutionary program via Byers and 
advertisements placed at strategic points throughout New Haven. 
"Stop by sometime and hatch a plot to overthrow the bourgeois capital-
ist elite," the Co-op's new slogan invites. The tag line is illustrated with 
the disembodied head of a sunglasses- and beret-dad rendition of the 
archetypical revolutionary Vladimir llyich Lenin. While this slogan is 
considerably less fiery than your run-of-the-mill leftist insurgent broad-
side--one would expect something more along the lines of"Workers of 
the world unite, and shop!"-it is a manifesto well in keeping with the 
liberation marketing sweeping America's corporate promotion depart-
ments. Drink Mountain Dew and gain the self-confidence to cliff-dive 
with your closest friends. Wear Reeboks and join in their declaration 
for Human Rights Now!TM Buy guava-avocado moisturizer at the Body 
Shop and help save the 19 Ogoni tribesmen whom Nigeria's military 
dictatorship plans to send to the gallows. Scarf down a pint of Ben and 
Jerry's Rain Forest Crunch TM and keep the ozone in place one more 
day. Yeah, right. Right? 


In the case of the Co-op's new marketing stratagem, however, there 
may just be something behind the revolutionary rhetoric. The Co-op 
was ousted from its long-time Broadway location next to Morse and 
Stiles this past June after Yale leased the building to Barnes & Noble, 
which opened the Yale Bookstore, the latest in the corporation's line of 
college bookstores. The Co-op, unlike the new Yale Bookstore, is 
owned by members who actually shop there, not far-off shareholders. 
In fact, at times the Co-op even manages to pay its members a small 
dividend, something that the Barnes & Noble establishment will never 
do, no maner how high the profit margins run. 


When Yale handed the Co-op over to Barnes & Noble, it was 
another blow against the locally-owned character of the Broadway 
strip. What was once a street marked by a cheesy local dance dub, a 
buffalo wing dive, and a small office supply store is 
.::::: slowly but surely being turned into a battleground 
where Au Bon Pain and Bruegger's pit their corporate 
bagels against one another in a dance to the death. As the 
posters in ABP tell us to grab for sourdough bagels with a chocolate 
swirl and as Bruegger's lures us in to try out an Herby Turkey™ meal 
. deal, the Co-op is, in a way, fighting for the voice of the people. 


Take a short stroll inside the new Co-op, now entrenched in the 
Chapel Square Mall, and you will discover that the revolutionary aes-
thetic has been taken a step beyond advertising pitches. The new Co-
op is a reasonable simulacrum of a revolutionary headquarters under 
siege: wires dangle from unfinished light fixtures, shelves remain bare 
as an obvious casualty of the breakdown in supply lines, and £!le newly 
constructed mezzanine level connecting the first and second floors 
remains definitively unfinished perhaps due to a lack of building sup-
plies and proletarian spirit. The only thing missing in the Co-op's new 
makeover are USSR-style lines at the checkout aisles. 


Despi~ the relatively disheveled appearance of the store, there are 
signs that the Co-op may make it through the long hard winter 
months. First of all, this is a case of a revolutionary administration 
actually managing to make the trains run on time. The Co-op has 
rented its very own trolley on wheels to shunle students to their new. 
location and indoctrinate them at their leisure. Judging by the texts in 
the course book section-it's packed with tracts for classes taught by 
left-leaning professors such as labor historian David Montgomery and 
"Roots of Radicalism" professor Emilia Vioni da Costa-the Co-op 
also has a dedicated cadre of freedom fighters among its ranks of sup-
porters. 


Perhaps the most obvious question to ask of all this talk of revolu-
tion, is this: How exactly does a business that has been the reigning 
power in student retail for 113 years end up in charge of the revolu-
tion? Aren't small but feisty bands of dissatisfied citizens the ones who 
lead revolts? 


Berkowitz, following in the rhetoric of the 1930s Communist 
International, puts it this way, "We have to retrain people to walk to a 
different location, to travel in a new direction, to walk a different way, 
to follow us." While all this talk of gaining fellow travelers may strike 
perspicacious readers as a bit arch, the Co-op hopes that its bohemian 
brand identity will keep its leadership from succumbing to a corporate 
coup d'!tat. 

18] 
Alec Hanley Bemis, o senior in Berkeley College, is o managing editor ofTNj. 
30 



**Store Hours**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 31**

Store Hours 
Monday thru Friday 
7am-7pm 
Saturday 
9am-Spm . 
Sunday 
l0am-4pm 
Staples, 84 Whalley Ave., Hew Haven, CT • 77 3-3353 




**Take a Walk**
**Page number(s): 32**

u/ ~ [ake a walk 
~ 
-
. 
......-.. 
~"'<t 
dOWRIJroadw 
'anl)} 
and you'll 
.see that .~ 
even before 
ur new store 
' 
opens, were open. 
()Ul~ 
ANNEX 
STOltES 
HAVE 
WHAT 
YC1U 
NEE I)! 
SPECIAL ORDERS 
TEXTBOOK BUYBACK 
THE YALE 
BOOKSTORE VISA 
SUPPLIES, 
SOFTWARE &YALE 
CLOTHING 
5%STUDENT 
DISCOUNT ON NEW 
HARDCOVER TEXT 
HOURS: Monday-Thursday 9a.m. to 9 p.m., Friday & Saturday 9a.m. to 10 p.m., Sunday 12n-6p.m. 
Book & Supplies Annex: 777-0477 • Temporary H.Q.: 787-5555 

