Publication date: 03/78
Volume 11, Issue 3

**Tropicana**
**Author: John Laing**
**Page number(s): 6**

6 
Tropicana by John Laing 
Providenciales is one of the smaller 
islands in the Turks and Caicos group 
which lies northeast of Haiti. Rarely 
visited, because few people know 
about them and even fewer know how 
to reach them, they comprise no more 
than fifty square miles and appear on 
the map as small dots just south of 
the Bahamas. 

Most of the two hundred houses on 
Providenciales are shanty cottages 
owned by natives who work in the 
stores, the gas station and the 
airport -
a wooden shack with a 
dusty dirt runway. Nearly all of the 
six hundred inhabitants live in an 
area known as Blue Hills, a strip of 
land one and a half miles long and a 
few hundred yards wide. Many have 
come to Providenciales from other 
islands, in search of a harbor from 
the encroachments of tourism. 

Conch shells and lobster were once 
the main exports of the island, but 
now the export of shells is forbidden 
because the more exquisite specimens 
of the deepest pink and blue colors 
have vanished from the shore. I used 
to spend the day trying to find and 
photograph these shells, but I dis-
covered few that were as beautiful as 
those shown to me by the people of 
Blue Hills. 

At f~.rst I was regarded with sus-
picion because I was carrying a great 
deal of photographic equipment, but I 
managed to gain trust by showing 
around a few Polaroid snapshots and 
becoming a familiar figure in the 
area. People would pose for me with 
their children in front of the wood 
and mud houses typical of the island, 
laundry billowing like brightly 
colored sails behind them. The roads 
on the island are no more than sandy 
white tracks, stony and uneven. Great 
clouds of dust followed the rattling 
path of each passing car. I rented one 
for five dollars and drove about the 
roads to visit other beaches, the 
boatyard and the parts of Blue Hills I