Publication date: February 5, 1988
Volume:  (Not specified)
Issue number: (Not specified)


**MASTHEAD:**
- (Not present in provided text)


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

Letter - (Author not specified)
NewsJournal - (Author not specified)
Features - (Author not specified)
What Price Freedom? - Jonathan Hoyt
Answers in Another Voice - Erin Kelly
Patchwork - Martha Brant
Harmonic Convergence - Mitchell Hammond
Books - (Author not specified)
E Pluribus Una - Margtry Sokoloff



**Title: *
**Author: [Yale Symphony Orchestra]**
**Page number(s): [2]**

**Title: What Price Freedom?**
**Author: Jonathan Hoyt**
**Page number(s): [10]**


(Article content not provided in this excerpt.)



**Title: Answers in Another Voice**
**Author: Erin Kelly**
**Page number(s): [16]**





**Title: Patchwork**
**Author: Martha Brant**
**Page number(s): [24]**





**Title: Harmonic Convergence**
**Author: Mitchell Hammond**





**Title: E Pluribus Una**
**Author: Margtry Sokoloff**
**Page number(s): [28]**





**Title: Letter To the Editor**
**Author: Alvin Novick, M.D.**
**Page number(s): 5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I enjoyed the three articles on AIDS in 
the December 4 issue. In the last 
paragraph of page 20 (first of page 21), 
however, Sachs appears to list being 
tested by donating blood as an option. 
That is totally inappropriate- seri-
ously so. It is unethical to go to a blood 
bank to be tested. The reason is that 
falsely negative results are sufficiently 
common so that some blood recipients 
will die as a result of such behavior. No 
person who believes that he/she may 
realistically be positive can ethically 
donate blood! 

Being tested in the blood bank 
setting 
is 
also -ill-advised 
since 
counselling is not done. No one should 
ever willingly be tested for HIV 
antibodies without professional coun-
selling. 

Anyone can be tested anonymously, 
with pre- and post-test counselling, at 
the New H aven H ealth Department. 
Your name is never used and the result 
is never entered into your ~edical 
record. 

Sincerely, 
Alvin Novick, M.D. 
Professor of Biology 
The New Journal encourages letters to the 
editor and comment on Yale and New Haven 
issues. Write to James Bennet, Editorials, 
62 Yale Station, New Haven, CT 06520. 
All letters for publication must include 
address and signature. The New Journal 
reserves the right to edit all letters for 
publication. 


**Title: NewsJournal Paper Chase**
**Author: Jennifer Sachs**

Anyone who has considered getting 
tested for AIDS at U niversity Health 
Services (UH S) but feared that the 
results would appear on their charts 
should know that for the time being 
they can get a completely anonymous 
test here at Yale. While the AIDS 
testing policy at UHS mandates that 
physicians record patients' results in 
sealed envelopes on their medical 
charts (TN] 12/4/87), the Health 
Services has not fully implemented this 
policy. Instead, individual physicians 
have 
continued to determine the 
confidentiality of each test however 
they see fit. 

Recording all results will have 
several benefits. People infected with 
the human immunodeficiency virus, 
which can cause AIDS, may need 
special treatment. In addition, health 
care providers who come into contact 
with a patient's bodily fluids may 
determine whether they risk infection. 
To avoid stigmatizing people who take 
the test, UH S will put envelopes, 
empty, on ten percent of all charts. 
According to D r. Daniel Rowe, the 
director of UHS, 
the 
Board of 
University H ealth approved this new 
policy only last week. However, ~e 
said in early November that "in the 
meantime, we are proceeding under 
the new policy. We are operating as if 
that were our policy." 

Dr. R obert DeBernardo, the AIDS 
coordinator at UHS, denied that the 
policy was to have been implemented 
last fall. He said that he had not 
distributed instructions on "envelop-
ing" 
results 
until 
middle of 
January, but that caregivers had 
followed the policy since then. At least 
two students who took the "AIDS test" 
at UHS in early December confirmed 
that 
their 
provider, 
Dr. Jane 
Rasmussen, assured them that their 
tests would not appear on their medical 
records. "She told me the test was a 
personal thing between me and her," 
one of these students said. "My under·-
standing was that it was not going on 
my file in any way." H e said that if he 
had thought the test would appear on 
his medical record, he would not have 
consented to it. 

Rasmussen said that she still does 
not record test results. "I just say, 
'H ere. It's yours.' That's how I've been 
doing it and that's how the providers I 
know have been doing it," she said. 
She explained that until she comes 
across a patient who tested positive, 
"all these things are not big terrible 
issues." Despite the insistence of both 
R owe and DeBernardo that physicians 
have started to heed the guidelines of 
the new policy, Rasmussen said she 
has no plans to begin "enveloping" 
immediately. 

Rasmussen's reluctance stems from 
a simple factor- the lack of envelopes 
on any of the charts. "I don't know 
what kind they're going to use, and I'm 
not going to use my own envelope. 
That would be like a red flag," she said. 
R asmussen said that as soon as the 
record room supplies envelopes she 
will begin using them. For now, the 
efforts ofUHS to find a coherent AIDS 
policy continue 
to suffer from 
some confusion, 
miscommunication, 
and 
now from an apparent shortage in the 
supply closet. 


**Title: Man on the Move**
**Author: Kirk Semple**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

When Henry "Sam" Chauncey Jr. (DC 
'57) announced recently that he would 
resign as president of the Science Park 
Development Corporation (SPDC), he 
startled many people in the Yale and 
New H aven communities. As soon as a 
search committee finds his replace-
ment, Chauncey will become president 
and chief executive officer of Gaylord 
Hospital, a rehabilitation center in 
Wallingford. 

Chauncey 
feels 
Science Park will benefit from a new 
perspective on its development. His 
decision also coincides with his own 
agenda . "Change is something that 
some people seek out," Chauncey said. 
"I am one of those guys that likes to do 
different things in life." 

From behind the scenes, Chauncey 
has supported a series of high-profile 
professors and presidents and has acted 
as a catalyst in the development of 
New H aven. H e worked in the Uni-
versity administration from 1957 to 
1981, serving in such positions as 
assistant to former President Kingman 
Brewster and secretary of the Univer-
sity. He also founded the Community 
Relations Office and was a member of 
the New Haven Development Com-
miSSIOn 
for more than 
10 years, 
initiating renovations of the Union 
R ailroad Station and the Taft H otel. 

Chauncey was selected as the first 
president of SPDC in 1981. With Yale 
University, the Olin Corporation, and 
the City of New H aven, he established 
the high-tech research park on the site 
of the Olin-Winchester gun factory, 
just west of Science Hill. The indus-
trial complex provides space and 
managerial facilities for new com-
panies and small businesses. With a 
budget 
that has increased 
from 
$51,000 to $5 million in six years, 
Science Park now houses about 110 
companies and has resources valued at 
well over $20 million. "Sam took a 
piece of paper which had a concept on 
it and made it into one of the most 
e ffective 
post-urban development 
pr~j ects in the country," said Matt 
Nemerson, president of the Greater 
New Haven Chamber of Commerce 
and former vice-president of SPDC 
under Chauncey. 

Chauncey was initially attracted to 
the proposal because of his interest in 
the revitalization of New H aven. "It 
seemed like a great opportun-ity io 
build a strong economic base in New 
H aven, which was losing 
it~ old 
industrial economic base," he said. 
The project promised to encourage 
business and to stimulate the city's 
development. Richard Bowerman (BK 
'39, LAW '42), chairman of SPOC, 
believes 
that with the 
president's 
departure, people will realize how 
much they have taken Chauncey and 
his guidance for granted. 

But residents of the neighboring 
Newhallville-Dixwell community have 
criticized 
Science 
Park 
for 
not 
providing more employment oppor-
tunities. 
Willie Green, executive 
director of the Newhallville Neigh-
borhood Corporation, also voiced his 
dissatisfaction early in the project. 
However, since cultivating a relation-
ship with Chauncey, he has found him 
accessible and sensitive to the needs of 
the community. "Sam was responsible 
for opening many doors," Green said. 
"I fear that progress is going to come to 
a grinding 
halt unless the search 
committee can 
find another Sam 
Chauncey." Chauncey, 
however, 
remains confident in the search com-
mittee'~ ability to select a successor 
who will make Science Park into "the 
damnedest thing you've ever seen." 


**Title: A Landholding Class**
**Page number(s): 6**

T o confront the shortage of housing for 
New H aven's homeless, a Yale Law 
School course called H ome Operations 
Management Enterprises (HOME) · 
assigned its students to design a 
program that 1 • would create and 
preserve low~i ncome residences. 

After two years of paperwork and 
fundraising, the students currently 
enrolled 
in 
course 
anticipate 
completion of the project. But their 
final product will not be a written 
report. By the middle of this year, 
· under the leadership of professors 
Michael Graetz and Robert Solomon, 
the corporation formed by the class will 
own over 130 units of low-income 
housing worth several million dollars. 

"The driving force of the class 
started as a vision," R oger Barnett 
(LAW :89) said. "But this year the 
vision came together." If the project 
succeeds, other cities, including New 
York, might duplicate it. The course 
had grown so complex that this year 
the professors recruited students from 
the Schools of Architecture, Public 
H ealth and Safety, and Management 
in addition to the 14 law students. 

Janet Stearns (LAW '88), a veteran 
HOME student, has watched the class 
progress. "The 
Mayor (Biagio 
DiLieto] has endorsed our program, 
and we are waiting for the approval of 
our board before we start purchasing 
the units," she said. The board , which 
makes all the final decisions, heads a 
non-profit corporation formed . by the 
students. They created the permanent 
leadership so that their . project will 
outlast their graduations. According to 
Solomon, "The class is an operating 
law ftrm, representing and advising 
this corporation." The board includes 



**Title: HOME**
**Author: Jamie Workman**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
real estate developers, tax revisionists, 
community volunteers and city 
officials concerned with the homeless, 
and a formerly homeless person. 
As a 
non-proht 
organ1zat10n, 
HOME receives federal low-income 
housing tax credits for each unit 
purchased. HOME's corporation can 
then use the credits as collateral to 
acquire low-interest loans from banks, 
which in turn are matched by cash 
donated by Yale, New Haven, and the 
Ford Foundation. 

The course began in the fall of 1985 
as a legal clinic. Students would visit 
the homeless at local shelters such as 
the Columbia House to inform them of 
their legal benefits and rights. They 
found that this approach failed to 
attack the problem at its root. 
"The need then was not for our 
advice," Stearns recalled. 
"Our 
homeless clients simply could not find 
affordable housing." Widespread 
redevelopment had left New Haven's 
residents with high rents and few 
alternatives. The following year, 
Stearns, with other students, expfored 
different options, researched possible 
funding, and combed the city for low-
income property units. "We felt the 
money and energy fC?r our course 
should not go into litigation, but rather 
into creation," Stearns said. 

Barnett stresses that the success of 
the course relies on the cooperation of 
the private and public sectors. "It's not 
just Yale that is working to provide 
housing; 
it's 
a 
triangle coalition 
between the Law School, the govern-
ment, and local community agencies," 
he said. 

Solomon believes that government 
agencies make possible a course like 
HOME. "As a class, we basically 
develop (public] subsidies and credits 
through the private market," he said. 
The government, he believes, has the 
resources and the inclination to help 
the homeless; HOME provides the 
mechanism. 
•


**Title: Greater Glory**
**Author: josh Barkan**

During the first game, the inmates 
looked threatening. Every two weeks 
last spring, and starting again last 
week, the members of Athletes in 
Action (AlA), 
Yale C hristian 
mmtstry of Campus Crusade for 
Christ, 
trekked 60 miles to play 
basketball 
at 
the medium-security 
Danbury Federal Prison. "At first, the 
inmates were staring at us, but we 
really liked them, and I think they 
liked us as we got to know them," Steve 
Essick (TC '90) said. "It gave us a real 
chance to practice what we had been 
learning in our Bible study sessions 
and 
to 
influence the 
inm ates 
positively." 

Yale Chaplain Miles Ahrens, 
himself a former college athlete, leads 
these weekly interdenominational 
discussions for 25 male and female 
undergraduate athletes. The students 
play a variety of team sports, ranging 
from football to swimming. Ahrens 
believes that Christianity can help 
competitors both on and off the field. 
In addition, he feels that athletes, as 
role models, have a unique platform 
from which to spread Christianity. 
"Since athletes endorse other things, 
why shouldn't they endorse a lifestyle?" 
Ahrens asked. 

As he has for seven years, Ahrens 
quotes verses from the Bible during 
AlA 
meetings and 
forms 
small 
problem-solving groups to alleviate 
athletes' worries. 
The discussion 
focuses on fear of failure, injury, and 
embarrassment. "Athletes tend to have 
self-satisfying goals- to be undefeated 
and to lead in tackles. These goals can 
hurt them when they don't reach them. 
But if their goal, as a Christian, is to 
glorify God, then whether they win or 
lose, they reach their maximum goal," 
Ahrens said . 

Given the three last-second wins in 
the past football season, many players 
felt overwhelming pressure to meet 
their own 
their spectators' 
expectations. For Essick, a varsity 
football player, some of that tension 
was relieved by his feeling that "God is 
a lot more important than football. 
When I missed a tackle it wasn't the 
end of the world as long as I played up 
to my full potential to represent God." 

Brent Hinkle (SM '90), like many 
AlA athletes, joined similar organ-
izations before college, such as the 
Fellowship for Christian Athletes. At 
Yale, Hinkle followed up on his high 
school experience by joining AlA. 
With Ahrens, he continues to combine 
athletics and his religious beliefs in 
order to enhance his performance and 
to affect others with his Christian 
philosophy. Hinkle believes, "Being an 
athlete can give you the chance to 
influence people positively. It takes a 
while, but you can change people's 
attitudes." 


**Title: What Price Freedom?**
**Author: Jonathan Hoyt**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

Shopping Period, says History Pro-
fessor Frank Turner, is expensive. He 
demonstrates this 
by 
simple 
arithmetic: two weeks times eight 
semesters equals 16 weeks, or a full 
semester of a student's Yale career 
spent selecting courses. At this years 
tuition, that costs $6,060. Turner's logic 
would surprise most students, who sel-
dom question the freedom of this system. 
But professors, who must ride out 
students' early semester whims, have a 
different viewpoint. Many of them 
believe that Shopping Period impedes 
serious work. Students, they feel, buy 
their freedom at too high a price. 

"What worries me is the consumer-
ism," says Lila Freedman, editor of the 
Yale College Programs of Study (the "Blue 
Book"). She fears that students choose 
a class that amuses them over one that 
would educate them. 

A 
host of 
subjective 
factors creeps into the 
decision process: where a course is 
located, 
whether the 
professor 
is 
entertaining, perhaps even what the
instructor looks like. "ll doesn't sell 
short the serious students," Berkeley 
College Master Robin Winks says, 
"but it caters to immaturity, and caters 
to those who look for 'guts."' Students 
may base their selection on a course's 
workload rather than its content. 

Further, 
according 
to Associate 
Professor of History William Cronon, 
Shopping Period promotes Yale's "star 
system," by which certain courses 
become huge solely because of the 
professor's popularity. "The rich get 
richer and the poor get poorer," Winks 
says. 

To avoid low enrollment, professors 
occasionally alter the style of their first 
lectures. Young instructors, Turner 
says, may cram too much into these 
lectures; later they run out of things to 
say. Others try to be funny. "There is a 
temptation of a cheap sell," Psychology 
Professor James Dittes says. Some pro-
fessors, however, try to scare students 
off, 
either to reduce their own 
workload or to eliminate "dead wood" 
le's Re
in seminars -that is, students who do 
not participate in discussions. 

Shopping Period also imposes a 
psychological strain on instructors. 
"You feel like you're talking to people 
in a shooting gallery or on a conveyor 
belt," says Eve Sandberg, 
acting 
instructor in Political Science. Gene 
Outka, Religious Studies professor, 
says that when students walk out, "You 
wonder if you've checked your appear-
ance that morning." 

Unless profe~~ors bury their noses in 
lecture notes, they can't help noticing 
the rudeness of "shoppers." Steve 
Gillon, a fellow of Silliman College 
and an instructor in History, recalls 
two male students who stood on oppo-
site sides of the classroom during his 
introductory lecture of History 131. 
When one looked at the other with an 
inquisitive shrug of the shoulders, 
Gillon couldn't help looking himself to 
see what the other student's reaction 
would be. "H e made a sign with his 
hand as if to say 'so-so,"' Gillon recalls. 
He says other shoppers take one look at 
the syllabus, frown, and then leave, 
perhaps banging into a chair or two on 
their way out. "Unless you're really 
brash a.J)d gutsy, and have a good ego, 
it's tough," says Turner. "Everybody 
has the same feeling of despair and 
fear," agrees Jennifer Wicke, director 
of undergraduate studies in Literature. 
"I ask myself, 'Did I do something 
wrong?'" 

According to Turner, 
shopping 
"institutionalizes bad manners" and is 
"disruptive to the entire process" of 
teaching a 
course. 
The 
Academic 
Haruiboolcfor Freshmen agrees. On page 
14, it reads, 

The course selection period is not 
what some students may lead you to 
believe it is. It is, for example, 
popularly called among students the 
•shopping period." That phrase is, in 
fact, a misnomer, and has some 


seriously misleading implications. 
Students may think of themselves as 
"shoppers," but members of the 
faculty do not conceive of themselves 
as vendors, nor their courses as 
goods on display . . . 

Under no 
circumstances should you leave a classroom 
in tlu middle of a lecture. 

Despite the HandbooiCs distrust of the 
connotations of "shopping," the 
preferred 
term "Course Selection 
Period" hasn't quite made it into the 
Yale vernacular. 

Shopping 
Period 
creates knotty 
logistical problems as well. If a course 
is larger than expected, the Co-op runs 
out of books, and the professor must 
scramble to find a new classroom and 
extra teaching assistants. Turner 
laments the fact that TAs often have no 
time to prepare for their responsi-
bilities. "The course billows forth, and 
TAs have to swim." Casual shoppers 
also consume mounds of syllabi: Last 
semester, Sandberg had to make new 
ones three times. An advantage 6f the 
pre-registration system is that ' each 
department can match the "supply" of 
courses with student "demand." 

Yale abandoned the pre-registration 
system in the fall of 1971. Previously, 
students could change their courses at 
the beginning of the term by sub-
mitting a form. Registrar John Meeske 
OE '74) recalls huge numbers of course 
changes, perhaps as many as 50,000 a 
year. It often took until the next 
semester to establish final enrollment 
figures. The late dean of Under-
graduate Studies, Martin Griffin, was 
among those 
who 
supported 
the 
"shopping period" idea. According to 
Meeske, Griffin's philosophy was that 
"students are going to end up in the 
course they want regardless of the 
regulations." The faculty have debated 
Shopping Period occasionally, the last 
time about four years ago. They voted 
to keep it. 

Despite complaints, instructors 
"You feel like you're 
talking to people in a 
shooting gallery or on 
a conveyor belt." 
changed. As Political Science Professor 
H. Bradford Westerfield puts it, "I'm 
enthusiastically in favor of it .... I 
don't want any students who will regret 
being here." After some experience, 
instructors develop a thicker skin. A 
student's departure in the middle of 
lecture, after all, is not always a 
judgment. History Professor Donald 
Kagan says, "People who worry about 
[Shopping Period] are missing the 
point." 

Shopping Period seems necessary 
when the inaccuracies of the Yale 
College Programs of Study are taken into 
account. Sandberg was dismayed to 
discover that the Blue Book editors had 
dramatically shifted the emphasis in 
her own course description. Similarly, 
colleague's description of his 
International Trade seminar had been 
cut from a paragraph to a sentence. 
With changes such as these, added to 
the swarm of last-minute alterations, 
students need to shop just to ensure 
that they get what they expect. 

Furthermore, according to Winks, 
Shopping Period maintains and 
enforces the "social contract" that exists 
between teacher and students: In order 
to attract students, instructors have to 
have syllabi ready, and they must 
present their subject in an interesting 
way. This contract encourages 
students not to disrupt lectures once 
they have enrolled in the class. Viewed 
in 
terms of the 
social contract, 
Shopping Period may help students to 
mature by forcing them to make 
educated choices. Wicke notes, "It's 
part of the self-directedness that we try 
to foster." 


**Title: Answers in Another Voice**
**Author: Erin Kelly**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I ' 
"The aesthetics 
becomes ethics, the 
language becom es 
morality." 
Tomas Venclova emerges from his 
tiny office and walks across the hall of 
HGS into his Russian poetry class. 
The seminar room is spacious, but 
Venclova charts his course around the 
disarray of chairs with concentration. 
Once in his seat, he bobs his head 
formally and greets his students like a 
nervous host. They respond politely, 
knowing that as V enclova immerses 
himself in Pushkin's poetry, 
his 
awkwardness will fall away. He speaks 
more quickly, the flow interrupted by 
small mistakes in his English. The 
articles "a" and "the" still give him 
fits- he 
guesses that only 
native 
Americans can figure out when to use 
them. And although he has lived in the 
United States for 11 years, ever since 
fleeing the Soviet-dominated nation of 
Lithuania, Tomas Venclova retains 
the air of a poet in exile. 
A stanza from his poem "Autumn in 
Copenhagen" reflects this experience: 
for every atom's long since been replaced 
in your body. The dislocated 
consciousness fumbles 
in the language, as in a desk drawer. The 
din of declensions, conjunctions, 
negations, 
the blind 
incessancy of particles, the cramped 
phrases, and only occasionally, 
dry (like something someone else 
experiences, but breath-taking) pain 
and silence. 

Venclova's poetry reveals more of his 
emotion than does his conversation. 
He can discuss his life in the Soviet 
Union without inflection. Apparently 
~t is -~. story he has told many times 
before. 

Venclova grew up in a household 
which taught him to command a 
language rather than find confusion 
within it. 
Born in 1937 in the 
strategically vulnerable 
nation of 
Lithuania, Venclova and his family 
had to flee their home in Klaipeda 
when Hitler invaded in 1939. T hey 
moved to the city of K aunas and later 
settled in the nation's capital, Vilnius. 
Venclova's father, a left-wing writer, 
turned to orthodox socialist realism 
when 
the Soviet U nion annexed 
Lithuania in the Second W orld W ar. 


The elder Venclova became a prom-
inent literary figure in the newly 
Sovietized state. He penned the lyrics 
to the new Soviet-Lithuanian national 
anthem. 

His father's prestige resulted in a life 
of relative privilege for Venclova, who 
enjoyed access to his father's official 
and unofficial libraries. He began to 
write poetry, which his father praised, 
but which authorities condemned as 
"decadent." He subscribed to Marxist 
doctrine for a while, but on November 
4, 1956, when Soviet tanks rolled into 
Hungary to suppress strains of liberal-
ization, Venclova lost faith in Soviet 
communism. He refused to alter the 
style of his poetry, and augmented this 
insolence with attacks on human rights 
violations within the Soviet Union. In 
response, Soviet authorities snatched 
copies of his poetry from the book-
stores. Venclova also lost his job 
teaching at Vilnius University, where 
he had lectured on literaturf and 
semiotics. His friends suffered;· more 
violent fates. KGB agents reputedly 
murdered Konstantin Bogatyrev, the 
Russian translator of Rilke, to whom 
Venclova dedicated a memorial poem: 
I turned the key 
that bared the corridor. 
My heart beat raggedly, weighed down 
my breast. 
It's true: within the confines of this state 
Death even, sometimes, was an accident. 

Although the government banned his 
poetry, Venclova was able to support 
himself as a translator, a vocation he 
had practiced all his life. His transla-
tions of T.S. Eliot's The Wasu Land 
drew acclaim, as did those of W. H. 
Auden's verses. He also translated 
Russian poetry. especiallv the works of 
writers like lsvetaeva and Akhmatova 
who rebelled against the growing 
totalitarianism of the Stalinist state. 
These men and women helped shape 
his poetic ideals-"just to give some 
meaning to the universe that 
surrounded them, not only by their 
work, but by their behavior, their life." 

Poetry for Venclova creates mean-
ing and purpose in an environment 
which seems senseless. He sees the 
threat of "nonexistence" everywhere, 
and uses his poetry to. hold it at bay. 
Venclova explains,"The poetry is one 
of the last possibilities in our world to 
remind 
people of some morality 
questions." He views good poetry as 
moral or ethical because its very 
structure stands in opposition to the 
chaos and meaninglessness which have 
gained power in Eastern Europe. "It's 
the only solid point you can find in the 
universe," he says. "It's just this firm 
structure of the poetry. The aesthetics 
becomes ethics, the language becomes 

Venclova's apocalyptic vision drew 
him to the company of other poets and 
artists who share his perspective. 
Joseph 
Brodsky became such a 
soulmate. Brodsky, who now lives in 
New York and received the Nobel 
Prize for literature in 1987, was a 
Russian poet living in Leningrad when 
Venclova first met him. Venclova 
considers Brodsky the greatest living 
Russian poet, and refers to him 
constantly as a model for his own life. 
The two poets have dedicated works to 
each other. 
Venclova's poem to 
Brodsky, "The Shield of Achilles," 
speaks to the power of poetry to hold 
back the nothingness which threatens 
to conquer. 
Peace be to you. To you and me, both, 
peace. 
Let it be dark. And let the seconds hurtle. 
Through densest space, that dream of 
many layers, 
I read each chapter your pen's released. 
Whole cities disappear. In nature's stead, 
A white shield, counterweight to non-
existence. 
In its engraving both our different eras 
Lie double-etched. 

Last December Brodsky selected 
V enclova as one of ten friends who 
would accompany him to Stockholm 
for the Nobel ceremonies. The formal 
aspects of the occasion intimidated 
Venclova, who is not always at home 
with social niceties. "The main 
problem was to fmd tailcoats for the 
big evening at the Stockholm town 
hall, where the Swedish King and 
Queen were present, so everybody was 
expected to be in a tailcoat. It was a so-
called white tie evening, the first such 
in my life, and I hope the last.one 
also," he laughs. 

When his anti-Soviet poetry forced 
Brodsky to head for exile in the West, 
Venclova gave his friend a bottle of 
liquor and asked him to drink it with 
W. H. Auden. Brodsky heeded his 
wishes, and with Auden, toasted the 
poet. Venclova was soon to follow 
Brodsky's path to the West. 

As a result of his increasingly anti-
Soviet convictions, Venclova became 
interested in the Helsinki Group in 
Moscow. This committee monitored 
and publicized Soviet violations of the 
Helsinki Accord, a Soviet-approved 
international agreement which 
outlined 
mm1mum standards of 
human freedoms that each member 
nation promised to honor. Soviet 
citizens approached the Moscow 
group, reporting government 
persecution, harassment in the 
workplace, and restriction on travel 
abroad. Lithuanians decided to 
organize their own Helsinki group in 
1976, which Venclovajoined, knowing 
it might result in imprisonment. 
As 
his work with the group 
.Sv.st.~ ~"stA 
S.._;, ~ · >~",)' · 
.st-.)'1 ~'• s...k .. ""\" 
Sv ._.;ro. 
g.rt..)· s. .. ,/••, ,~~-- :. ....) .. ~J 
l(.,~. ,.t l...O:::-
J'v.)'t'-)' 
~(. J..•"'?' , 
\.,.- ,).(., t ... ~, fv ~"N~ J? ~ •r.., 
.>~,-t.\.. , J..lt.l... s-..7-. s...l.~ys 
f. I ~. v:..C•) u r, 
€.-.:.(''")' ~, 
""-•> ,.A' t·~l. 
v .... J..~. J.. i.. .l7\u"o. 
«;:o l.j• 
J""~·· · t•· f.-;. ,_., 
~ \..,.. ... , ..,._,,,it. U~s. 
~ }""')> 
, .. .,...a. ..., ... , 
~1··'" · 
$-.sf.\(., , .. l t.l.. s~7 •• 
s.t...·-7.~ 
t.J.,., ~\...v..l.~<•, tv.C... 
f,~(~J 
O.l) ._t; <> ...:J;, 
(.; .... ! 
.-.: 
..for• 
s)'e.J. S•·<;>·J. r·:f ...... "J"':s. 
f.-:, v.:J.. .)C-Ai:o.> •·J•, 1...., ;; .. _,t.. 
lr ... 
_,..~.. _,.t..S,-7 .. .: .. 
5~Jf.l. , ~-->f-1.. J.)'ro 
~.l;._,J 
eye.;-
s...:'j&t, , .. .-f.,: • .., •• :;


continued, Venclova received more 
signs that 
the government was 
displeased with his activities. He 
explains that 
request 
for 
a 
telephone in his Vilnius apartment had 
been delayed 
months, 
as 
is 
common in the Soviet Union. He 
waited and complained, but nothing 
helped- until one day an American 
came to v1s1t. The VISitOr brought 
Venclova a clipping from the New York 
Review of Books, in which the recently 
emigrated Brodsky described the 
persecution Venclova faced in the 
Soviet Union. Venclova stood in his 
apartment discussing his case with the 
American, when suddenly there was a 
knock on the door. Workmen had 
arrived to 
install 
the 
telephone, 
Venclova explains, "and the phone was 
apparently already with the bugging 
devices in it." 

In 1976, Venclova's boldness 
reached its peak when he and other 
members of his group staged a 
Moscow press conference to tell 
Western reporters about repression in 
Lithuania. "So we went to Moscow on 
three different trains, just in case if 
anybody is arrested, the other ones will 
remain free. But nobody was arrested, 
we reached Moscow all three of us, and 
we arranged a press conference in Yuri 
Orlov's [a prominent physicist] · 
apartment in Moscow." The group 
told reporters about the situation in 
Lithuania, with the dissident Anatoly 
Scharansk y 
acting as English 
translator. "It was a date that made 
history in Lithuania, or for Lithuania," 
Ven clova says. 

Surprisingly, 
authorities did not interfere with the 
press conference, the first of its kind. 
Within six months, however, every 
participant except Venclova had been 
arrested on what he calls "trumped-up 
charges." Most were sent to Siberia. 
Venclova escaped arrest, 
partially 
because of Western pressure. Play-
wright Arthur Miller, then American 
president of PEN, an international 
organization of writers, wrote letters to 
the Soviets in defense ofVenclova. Brod-
sky publicized the cause in New York 
hoping that he could embarrass Soviet 
authorities into releasing the dissident. 
Czeslaw Milosz, a Polish emigre poet 
teaching at the University of California 
at Berkeley, invited Venclova to come 
lecture on Russian literature. Milosz, 
a 1980 Nobel laureate, says that he 
came to admire "\! enclova when he was 
still 
in 
Poland and 
received an 
underground copy of his poems, one of 
which he translated in.to Polish. He 
learned of Venclova's situation from 
Polish friends: "Our university worked 
for nearly two years to get him out." 
H e speculates that the reputation of 
Venclova's father may have saved 'him 
from arrest to this point, but that this 
protection might not have continued. 
" Immediately after this 
press 
conference, I came back to Vilnius, 
and I was told by my mother and my 
wife that I was invited to the Ministry 
df the Interior," Venclova says. "Now, 
the Ministry of the Interior is not the 
same as it is the the United States. It is 
police." H e was certain as he left for 
the meeting that he faced arrest. "So I 
went there, with some anxiety, but at 
that time I was still very stubborn, very 
enthusiastic"-a smile plays on his 
lips-"about my dissident activities, 
and pretty sure that it is well worth to 
serve some time in prison for this 
case." To his surprise, Venclova was 
not arrested. 

Instead, 
authorities 
encouraged him to accept his invi-
tation to Berkeley. They issued him a 
passport. 

When Vendova learned that fellow 
poets were campaigning for his release, 
he considered the implications of 
leaving his home. 
He 
received 
postcards from Brodsky on the other 
side of the world, attempting to explain 
what the new life was like. H e con-


**An Exile's Poetry**
**Author: Erin Kelly**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
sidered his status as a Lithuanian. If 
Lithuanian language and culture were 
unappreciated in the rest of the Soviet 
Union, they carried even less weight in 
most of America. Venclova also had to 
reconcile himself with the probability 
of never again seeing his mother, wife, 
and daughter. But, as painful as the 
possibility of exile seemed, he knew he 
would be imprisoned with 
other 
members of his group if he stayed. 
Friends convinced him to become the 
group's spokesman in the West. 
His family also supported the idea of 
leaving. "When my mother heard 
about my situation in Lithuania, she 
just 
told 
me that she perfectly 
understands me. She told me, 'Well, 
it's my fate - I married a revolu-
tionary, and I produce one. So it's just 
normal situation."' H e laughs warmly 
at the memory. 

Venclova left the Soviet Union on 
J anuary 25, 1977. He was alone and 
his English was "pretty shaky." He 
traveled first to Paris for three weeks, 
where he learned of the imprisonment 
of the head of the Lithuanian Helsinki 
Group, Viktor Petkas. He wrote a 
poem to his friend Petkas, 
who 
remains in internal exile in a Siberian 
village. 
Just before mid-July, Paris is empty. 
Not a single telephone responds 
or else it answers in another voice, 
informing you that since last year , the 
number 
has slightly changed . The eloquent tape 
does not wish to disclose the present 
cipher. 

By July of that year, every member of 
the Helsinki Groups in Moscow and 
Lithuania had been arrested. 

After arriving in Berkeley, Venclova 
used the American media to publicize 
his 
friends' situations. 
Americans 
listened to his remarks, but Moscow 
heard them as well. While at Berkeley, 
he received a letter from the Soviet 
Consulate in San Francisco informing 
him that his Soviet passport had been 
revoked, meaning that he could not 
return home to his family. Venclova 
had expected the letter, because he 
knew of this outcome in the cases of 
other dissidents. Stalin's daughter, 
Svetlana; and . the writer Alexander . 
Solzhenitsyn received letters · before 
him. Venclova's letter was the ninth. 
"We always joke that this is the most 
exclusive club in the world," he says 
proudly. He applied for political 
asylum, and eventually became an 
American citizen. Later, his wife and 
daughter were allowed to join him, 
although the couple has since divorced. 

Venclova spent several months at 
Berkeley, lecturing in Russian. 
Although the University seemed to 
him like "a real garden of paradise," his 
problems with English frustrated him. 
Venclova learned to read English by 
translating poetry, but understanding 
the spoken language continues to 
present challenges. "It is a problem for 
me, for example, in the criminal 
movies- quite often 
I 
cannot 
understand the plot, because people 
talk fast, and talk in slang. It's 
absolutely confusing for me," he says. 
He suggests that perfect mastery of 
English is impossible for someone who 
emigrates in middle age-"but 
Brodsky did it, his English is perfect. 
Of course, Brodsky is a genius." 

Venclova's comment reveals the self-
deprecating manner with which he 
describes himself in relation to his 
friends Brodsky and 
Milosz. 
He 
believes Brodsky "has made better use 
of his emigration," partly because 
Brodsky's ability to communicate with 
Americans exceeds his own. The fact 
that Czeslaw Milosz bothered to 
translate his poem, 
"Dialogue in 
Winter," made him "immensely 
proud," Venclova says, adding, "of 
course the translation is very much 
better than the original, I'm afraid." 

He also mentions his emigre friend 
Vasily Rudich, an assistant professor 
of Classics at Yale, saying that he 
admires Rudich's social ease and 
wishes he had more of this quality. 

Still, Venclova has been productive 
in the roie o( an emigre intellectual. 
Pursuing an American academ1c 
career, he left Berkeley for a teaching 
job at UCLA, and then in 1980 came 
to Yale at the invitation of Professor 
Victor Erlich of the Slavic Depart-
ment. Venclova became an assistant 
professor after completing his doctoral 
thesis, an intricate analysis of several 
Russian poets which is now on the 
shelves of Sterling. 

In both interpreting and creating 
poetry, 
V enclova 
focuses 
on the 
technical structure of the poem. In his 
own work, he generally adheres to 
standards of rhyming and strict 
metrical patterns. He gains a sense of 
the format of the future poem before 
anything else becomes clear. "Before 
beginning, I already know that it 
should be for example an eight-stanza 
poem, and I have this space to fill , just 
like a painter who has a canvas before 
him or her and has to fill in the colors," 
he explains. "And then several images 
start appearing to me, and then a few 
words, at different positions in the 
poem. And then I try to create the 
words or ideas that will connect these 

images." 

The language and shape of 
Venclova's poetry are decidedly 
Lithuanian, with an echo of Russian 
rhythm. 

Paradoxically, 
Venclova 
believes that leaving Lithuania has 
allowed him to preserve this style. He 
views his poetry as one way to preserve 
Lithuanian cultural identity, which has 
become fragile in a nation dominated 
by Russian language and culture. He 
compares the Soviet Union to 
America, explaining that both serve as 
melting pots for disparate cultures. 
"We have a melting pot in the United 
States that 
is 
pretty successful-
everybody melts in it, but people 
choose it. In the Soviet Union it 
is not their free choice to melt." 

Venclova, 
however, has hardly 
melted into an American mold. He 
says his poems, only about ten percent 
of which have been translated, do not 
read well in English. This does :not 
concern him, because his prirxiary 
audience reads his poetry in the 
original Lithuanian . 

Venclova's 
principal American audience is in 
C hicago, where the Lithuanian 
community numbers about 100,000. "I 
can read my poetry in Chicago, and 
300 people, 500 people will fill the 
room," he says. He also believes that 
his poetry and political essays find 
their way back to Lithuania through 
underground channels. But writing 
from exile, he says, quoting a Russian 
poet, is "a little like putting poetry in a 
bottle and throwmg it mto the ocean." 

Not to go home again-ever. 
To close up, disappear without a trace, 
Sink into autumn's fastness. To lose the 
things that are fated 
to be lost: whatever of former 
space still exists close at hand. 
And however sinful and shameful it seems, 
hearts continue to beat, 
and a siren's immaculate din wedges into 
the sullied night, 
this side of the current of Oresund


**Title: Patchwork**
**Author: Martha Brant**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Patchwork 
Martha Brant .


**Title: Physical Plant**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

The workers wonder why they have 
such an unrealistic schedule. The 
management wonders why the workers 
can't keep on schedule. And the 
students simply wonder why the sink 
still leaks. Short on efficiency, Physical 
Plant has been controversial ever since 
it was founded as the Yale University 
Service Bureau in 1918. Roy Dulac, a 
mason at Yale for 33 years, says people 
blame Physical Plant for the majority 
of the University's maintenance 
problems. "They say, 'It's them, it's 
them, it's them.' It's not us, it's the 
system. The system hasn't functioned 
since the day they put it in here. They 
take the same system and they modify 
it. Within six months it's right back 
where it used to be." 

Dulac has gone through more 
managers and supervisors than he 
cares to count and has witnessed three 
efficiency companies fail 
in their 
attempts to reorganize Physical Plant, 
in 
1967, 1973, and 1977. Understandably, he and many workers like 
him 
feel skeptical of a 
new 
management and computer system. 
Based on his past experience, Dulac 
predicts that these changes will merely 
continue the long series of unsuccessful 
attempts to improve Physical Plant. 
"Come in like a blaze of glory and 
fade into the woodwork," Dulac 
says. Physical Plant, which services all of campus 
except the Medical School, is divided 
into a central and a science area. Each 
has a control center to process all the 
jobs and a crew made up of skilled 
tradespeople such as carpenters and 
electricians. The 50 administrative 
workers at Physical Plant include 
control center specialists who take 
phone calls, 
determine a job's 
importance, and decide which trade 
suits the work. 

To coordinate daily services, the 
administration introduced a 
computer system about a year and a 
half ago. Before, job assignments were 
handwritten on tickets, and workers 
had no way to keep track of them. If a 
ticket got lost, the job never got done. 
The new computer serves to avoid 
such problems. Control center 
specialists enter each job into the 
computer, which then prints out a 
ticket. The trade supervisors then 
distribute the tickets to their workers. 
At the end of the day, the tradespeople 
turn their tickets back in to the 
computer and it does some thinking. Is 
the job complete or on hold? Does it 
require a follow-up by someone from 
another trade? If the job is incomplete, 
the computer generates a new ticket 
and the same worker continues the 
next day. Every job has a time 
estimate, and the computer determines 
not only who did the work, but how 
long they took. The system does allow 
workers to justify any delays on the 
backs of their computer tickets. 

Although this computer system will 
not eliminate the backlog of jobs, 
current administrators hope that it 
might expedite the work process. But 
Christa Soell (DC 
'88) and her 
roommate wish some improvements 
had come sooner. When they moved 
into their room last year, they were 
told that their ceiling still leaked after a 
year and a half. They left for the 
summer with no response to their calls 
to Physical Plant. When they returned 
to the same room in September, the 
leak had progressed to the bathroom 
and the water was prying loose the tiles 
in the shower. Paralyzed from the 
waist down, Soell's roommate 
happened to be under those tiles when 
they fell, and she could not move out of 
the way. 

In labeling a job first priority 
control center specialists must find the 
situation threatening to life, limb, 
property, or "the Yale investment." 
Sometimes an urgent request also 
qualifies, as a short walk through a 
freshly painted dean's apartment will 
demonstrate. 

Yet students and 
Physical Plant often disagree on the 
definition of urgency. When Timothy 
Shoettle's (GE '90) showerhead broke 
off one day last year, he reported the 
damage to Physical Plant immediately. 
Two weeks later, he started to call 
irregularly for about two months. With 
no results and the inconvenience 
seeming less and less temporary, the 
eight people who once used the shower 
began a call-a-thon. They called three 
times a day, every day for a month. 
Finally, Shoettle took his showerhead 
over to Physical Plant, walked into an 
office, exchanged a few angry words, 
and got action. 

The computer may prevent these 
kinds of delays and oversights. But a 
computer can't account for human 
error. Often, stalls occur because 
supplies are inaccessible. 
Workers 
have to fill out a form for charging 
materials to the job. But according to 
Bob Collins, a plumber at Yale for 27 
years, "About a third of the time they 
don't have the 
materials in the 
stockroom." Then the worker has to go 
over to the supply house and fill out 
another form. "The logistics of 
working here make it impossible to 


Bob Collins, a 
plumber at Yale for 
27 years, said, "The 
logistics of working 
here make it 
impossible to work a 
full eight-hour day." 

work a full eight-hour day," Collins 
said. 

Gaining access to work areas poses 
another problem. 
When Braun 
assumed his post, workers had only 
two people they could go to for keys: 
the lockshop foreman, who has access 
to all master keys, or the college 
secretary, who can provide access to a 
residential college. If they could not 
reach the lockshop foreman and had a 
job in a college, workers often faced the 
inconvenience 
of waiting for 
the 
secretary to arrive in the morning, 
sometimes an hour later than they 
started work. According to workers, 
however, UPS and Federal Express 
delivery people have keys. Braun has 
tried to smooth out such flaws and has 
already simplified access to keys on 
Old Campus. 

In denying 
the workers easy 
entrance to colleges and dorm rooms, 
University 
has indicated 
that it includes Physical Plant workers 
among 
its 
security 
risks. 
Many 
workers resent the fact that Yale does 
not trust them. Dulac asked, "Why 
don't they give me a uniform of black 
and white stripes so they can see me 
coming?" An incident of fraud exposed 
this fall served to fuel the negative 
image of workers. Between 1983 and 
1986, an electrician's supervisor and a 
North Haven electrical contractor 
cheated Yale out of several thousand 
dollars worth of material. Workers 
claim that during the investigation FBI 
agents came to their houses to search 
for missing material. They came while 
the workers were out on strike, and 
conducted all checks at the same time 
to prevent one worker from warning 
another. 

In the fraud case, although the 
management 
faced 
the criminal 
charges, the workers did not escape 
suspicion. Such suspicion surfaces in 
their everyday jobs. According to 
Dulac, "They say, 'The workers are 
stealing the batteries, the workers are 
stealing this, the workers are stealing 
that!' 
It's always on us, not the 
management, God forbid!" Dulac feels 
that greater distrust has emerged in re-
cent years and has contributed to 
Physical Plant's inefficiency. 

He and a number of his co-workers 
feel that poor service has harmed their 
image among students. 
Students 
stereotype workers based on glimpses 
of them 
performing jobs around 
campus, rather than on knowledge of 
what particular workers do. Allan 
Tulchin (TD '90), said recently, "Who 
is in the pool room and the TV room 
during the day? More often than not 
it's the workers." Collins admits that 
the system allows for less motivated 
workers. "There are all kinds of ways 
you can dupe the system. If you didn't 
want to work, you could absolutely not 
work eight hours a day and you could 
look like you did a million things," he 
said. Since workers and managers 
stay at Yale for very long. When Lewis 
Beach (YC '28) retired as manager in 
the late 1960's, he took with him both a 
record of 40 years of service and a 
tradition of stable management. "In 
1970 I went through seven bosses in three 
months. We used to take a dart board and 
throw darts against the wall to see 
who the boss of the week would be," 
Dulac said. During a recent year-and-
a-half period, Physical Plant did not 
have anyone officially in charge, and 
the vice-president of Finance and 
Administration had to moonlight as 
part-time manager. When seeking new 
management, Yale often does not 
promote from within, because workers 
don't want supervisory 
positions. 

Collins, a leadman—or head worker—in 
plumbing, was offered a promotion to 
foreman. But he didn't want a disciplinary position since his brother-in-law 
and son, as well as his friends, work in 
Physical Plant. 

Because Yale hires from outside the 
ranks of workers, its administrators do 
not always know the trades or the 
system. "Sometimes they come to us, 
and ask 'what should we do?' What do 
they mean 'what should we do?' What 
the hell are they the boss for?" Dulac 
said. Many workers feel that they must 
compensate for ineffective supervisors. 
"Nobody has any power. Nobody can 
make a decision over there. Years ago 
we went to the boss and the boss made 
a decision. Nowadays you're more or 
less on your own most of the time," 
Dulac said. Workers who find them-
selves "on their own" often look to each 
other for support. They trust their 
leadman for advice more than they 
trust their supervisor. This preference 
only widens the distance between 
workers and management. 

Braun hopes to improve worker-
management communication. He has 
instituted a new policy of meeting with 
his 50 supervisors every three months. 
In his office, behind a large oak desk 
spread with copies of Army Times, he 
described this new approach. "It gives 
a supervisor, even two or three levels 
removed from me, an opportunity to 
talk to me knowing I will never go to




**Yale Physical Plant: A Case Study in Worker Morale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
-
his boss and say anything derogatory. 
It is a good way for me to manage my 
subordinates." But Braun does not 
meet with workers directly, and they 
feel frustrated that he does not hear 
their ideas. After all, they reason, they 
know best how the system works and 
doesn't work. "We've come up with 
some ideas to save them money and 
save them grief. But they don't want to 
listen to you because you don't have a 
degree behind you," Collins said. 
Collins' belief that Yale overlooks his 
opinion reveals workers' low morale. 
Though Braun recognizes this prob-
lem, his solution is limited. "One thing 
we don't have here at Yale is a good 
system to pat our employees on the 
back when they do a good job," he 
said. He has started a new employee-
of-the-month program in which a Uni-
versity officer will present the winner 
with a savings bond worth 50 dqllars. 
But some workers feel that the new 
computer system continues to lower . 
their morale. No monthly awarc(·will 
smooth out the kinks in that system. 
"Nobody seems to care as long as the 
numbers are right," said Collins. 
Because it emphasizes the time rate, 
rather than the quality of work, the 
system offers little reward for a job well 
done. 

Braun recognizes the workers' dis-
satisfaction, but he attributes it to their 
resistance to technological change. 
"Tradespeople traditionally don't like 
any kind of paper work. So when they 
have to fill out a single form it is hard 
for them to adjust," he said. But the 
workers can provide numerous 
examples of how the computer system 
does not suit the nature of their work. 
If they happen upon something that 
needs repair, they cannot just stop to 
fix it, because the computer will not 
give them credit for the job. "We are 
not factory workers. When you go to 
knock at a student's room and they've 
been up all night studying, you just 
can't go barging in and throw them 
out. They're the customers. You can't 
say, 'Let's go, I've got to work because 
I'm on a schedule.' .You can't do that 
here," Dulac said. The high demand 


for repairs at Yale requires a tightly 
controlled system. But the tickets and 
time schedules make workers feel that 
they no longer have the flexibility 
needed to perform daily repairs. 

The administration and the workers 
seem to agree on at least one problem: 
Physical Plant does 
not 
operate 
smoothly. According to Braun, "Until 
we get out of that cycle where everyone 
is running around answering calls all 
the time, we will never be able to have 
enough people to do what we need to 
do." Dulac, however, claims that the 
University has cut the number of 
workers in recent years, and he does 
not understand'this logic. Resting his 
hands heavily on a restaurant counter, 
Dulac said, "They say it doesn't seem 
to be working right, meanwhile they're 
getting rid of more and more people." 
He orders a· bottle of beer and 
chuckles, "You need this working 
. here." Workers who have been with 
Physical Plant as long as Dulac recall 
the elimination of whole trades and 
dramatic cutbacks in others. Although 
·Braun insists that Physical Plant has 
grown since the mid-1970's, the 
statistics show a 
more 
complete 
picture. In fact, the University has 
hired more lower skill level workers 
than tradespeople. Many workers say 
that these hiring practices lead to 
' greater inefficiency. 

The tradespeople in Physical Plant 
generally have the highest labor grade 
status that Yale offers, level 17, which 
corresponds to a wage rate. They had 
their labor level upgraded in the last 
contract 
in exchange 
for the 
introduction of lower labor grade 
building attendants 
into 
Physical 
Plant. Administrators claimed that the 
building attendants, each of whom acts 
as superintendent for two colleges, 
would speed up everyday repairs. But 
according to Ron Altieri, negotiator 
for Local 35 and an electrician in 
Physical Plant, "My concern is that 
they want to fill this- place with 
handymen, therefore eliminating the 
need for labor grade 17 people, -skilled 
tradespeople." 


Skepticism and •low morale complicate Allan Braun's efforts to improve worker-
management relations at Physical Plant. 
With fewer tradespeople, Yale must 
subcontract out more large mainten-
ance projects to the public sector. 
Physical Plant does get a chance to bid 
on these projects. According to union 
rules, Yale can subcontract out work 
normally done by Physical Plant 
workers if Physical Plant's bid is not 
competitive. 
And often 
it isn't. 
Depending on the job, Physical Plant 
often costs more. It has a high 
overhead- the price of running ~~ts 
operations- because of a large support 
service. 
Employees take calls and 
respond to emergencies 24 hours a 
day, seven days a week. These types of 
services create expenses which outside 
contractors don't have. In addition, 
tradespeople may lack the skills re-
quired for a project. Even if they had 
these skills, their daily routines would 
prevent 
them 
from keeping on 
schedule. 
Plant's unusual system 
rnakes it a 
poor competitor with 
outside firms. But some management 
experts think that Physical Plant has 
P<>tential. Charles Perrow and a group 
of other professors, many from the 
School of Management, volunteered to 
examine Physical Plant and to suggest 
structural improvements a few years 
ago. "The Universitv 
gav~ us an 
informal response. Bas.ically, 'We have 
a perfectly adequate personnel system 
and we don't need any help or anyone 
mucking around," Perrow said. 

The tradespeople and their union, 
l..ocaJ 35, share Perrow's optimism. 
l'hey want more workers, and hope 
Physical Plant's Trades Helper 
Program will bring them in. The 
union gained this seven-year training 
program during labor negotiations in 
1984. It allows workers to choose a 
trade 
and 
to 
receive on-the-job 
tra1ntng and class instruction. 
Manageme11t monitors the workers' 
progress as they move up the ladder 
from labor grade 9 to 17, one level 
every year. Currently, nine workers 
participate in the program, and the 
union would like to see more. They 
argue that the University benefits from 
well-trained workers familiar with the 
system. 

The existing training program opens 
a door to Physical Plant for women 
minorities. 
Although many 
women work on the administrative 
end, Physical Plant currently employs 
only three women in the central area 
and two in the science area. These 
women work in such capacities as 
building attendants and truck drivers 
-lower labor grade positions. Physical 
Plant 
also employs 
few 
minority 
workers. According to Altieri, "The 
University does not really meet the 
minimum requirement of 6.9 percent 
female and 25 percent minority. When 
they hire from outside they have to 
give preference to that ratio, which is 
an average based on the New Haven 
population. The University claims to 
have this percentage, but that is really 
a smoke screen. Rationally speaking, 
black people and women wind up in 
lower labor grade jqbs." 

According to Peter Vallone, the 
University's negotiator during this 
round of labor negotiations, Yale does


**Title: Yale Physical Plant: A Union's Struggle**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
not feel a responsibility to train its 
workers. 

This attitude 
astonishes 
Altieri. "It is remarkable that an 
institution like Yale U n iversity which 
is here to educate people doesn't think 
it has the responsibility to tra in and 
educate its workers to try and better 
themselves," he said. In the recent 
contract talks, the u n ion asked for 50 
more workers, and, according to 
Altieri, it didn't mind if they were all 
trades helpers. Local35 even offered to 
give up its right to dispute University 
subcontracting in exchange for these 
jobs. While promising to maintain the 
current number of P hysical Plant 
union employs:f!s, the new contract 
includes no provisions for hiring 
additional union workers. The con-
tract also allows the University greater 
flexibility in the use of subcontractors. 

For their part, the union gained a six 
percent wage increase for all workers. 

Even with the wage increase, trades-
people in Physical Plan t receive about 
three dollars less per hour than the 
average New H aven skilled worker. 

Yet outside comparisons also show that 
working in a university setting differs 
markedly from working elsewhere. 
Yale workers rarely face layoffs, their 
work stays consistent, 
and 
the 
University provides extensive 
monetary as well as personal benefits. 

Wearing a brown shirt with a large 
blue and white Yale tag and toying 
with the job tickets in his pocket, 
Collins said, "Although I don't always 
like the people I have to work for, you 
do meet a lot of nice people. You meet 
a lot of important people too." 

But the constant battle between the 
union and the University every three 
years over similar issues does not speak 
well for worker-admin istration rela· 
tions. According to Perrow, "There is a 
legacy of labor activism 
in 
New 
H aven. But this is not fostered by 
Yale. Yale is an elite institution and it 
is an ti-union." The University has had 
five strikes to date, and many Physical 
Plant workers feel that tney may never 
resolve certain issu es. 

M eanwhile, the bu ildings get older 
and the complaints mount. Allan 


Tulchin, 
a 
Yale College Council 
representative, has been collecting 
complaints in the mail for the Physical 
Operations Advisory Committee. 
Broken windows, leaky faucets, water 
damage, and falling plaster are all 
common problems. As Dulac ex-
plained, "Since I've been here the 
buildings have gotten 30 years older 
and we have fewer people to take care 
of them." Yale has been planning a 
long-overdue renovation project. If 
Yale gains the needed $350 million, 
this project will renovate the whole 
campus, excluding . the Medical 
School, over the course of five years. 
The 
University Capital Planning 
Committee, chaired by Provost 
William Nordhaus, will also oversee a 
separate $90 million residential college 
project. Yale will subcontract out most 
of the work, but Physical Plant will 
eventually benefit. With renovated 
buildings, the demand for daily repa,irs 
will decrease and Physical Plant may 
be able not only to respond to 
emergency calls faster, but to have 
time for preventive maintenance projects 
projects. 

In ilie long run, improved service 
might chip away at one of Physical 
Plant's most damaging problems: its 
poor public image. As the Yalt Banntr 
from 1963 shows, however, stereotypes 
don't readily change. "Last fall," the 
Banntr reads, "members of TO 
returned to find that the painters were 
working at presumably top speed to 
'rehabilitate' each and every room .... 
Two or at the most three were always 
on the job while the fourth was passing 
out the coffee for the continual coffee 
break. Rumor has it that one student 
returned to his room to find a painter 
fast asleep in his bed." But just as 
public opinion resists change, Physical 
Plant remains equally stubborn. New 
rnanagers and technology haven't 
helped poor worker-management rela-
tions or sped up daily repairs. Given 
enough time, Physical Plant seems 
able to fix anything on campus-
except itself. 


**Title: Harmonic Convergence**
**Author: Mitchell Hammond**
**Page number(s): 24**

It's a good walk from the center of town 
to the Institute of Sacred Music, up 
Prospect Street past Farnham Mem-
orial Gardens. +he building stands like 
E a one-room schoolhouse on the edge of 
:=· town, poised on the top of the slope 
~ behind the Divinity School. _!3ut a 
~ glance at the . surrounding buildings 
e and the sound of organ music from 
~ inside quickly dispel the sense of 
isolation. Despite its distance from the 
center of the University and the paths 
of most Yale students, the Institute is a 
crossroads, a meeting place for the 
worlds of music and religion. 

Begun in 1973, the Institute bridges 
Yale's School of Music and Divinity 
School, two professional programs 
which are traditionally separated at 
other universities. The Institute of 
Sacred Music (ISM) embraces the 
interdisciplinary study of all arts and 
religion, though its primary orien-
tation 
is Christian. 
Endowed 
independently of Yale by Clementine 
Tangeman and Irwin Sweeney Miller. 
Yale Corporation member, the 
Institute provides the University with 
professors whose interests and exper-
tise extend beyond one field of study. 

Originally, the founders visualized 
ISM as part of a Yale music complex 
in downtown New Haven. When the 
University abandoned these plans, the 
fledgling Institute established a 
foothold on the back quadrangle of the 
Divinity School. Only the dim outline 
of a backboard high on the wall of the 
convocation hall remains as a reminder 
that the building, in an earlier life, 
served as the .gymnasium for Divinity 



**Title: The Institute of Sacred Music**
**Author: Mitchell Hammond**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
School
students.
The sounds of
basketball have been traded for the
music of six practice organs and four
grand pianos crammed into a space
half the size of Woolsey Hall.
Perhaps because of its small size, the
Institute attracts far less attention than
the other professional programs on
campus. Before applying to the School
of Music, organ student J ohn Sherer
had never heard of the Institute of
Sacred Music. After graduating from
the Cincinnati Conservatory, where he
studied organ and music education,
Scherer was drawn to Yale by the
reputation of the organ faculty and of
Woolsey Hall's Newberry Memorial
Organ, one of the finest in the world.
"But once I got here," he explained, "I
realized the full potential of where I
was." In his first year at the School of
Music, Sherer learned of ISM and
decided to apply.

All Institute students are accepted
from either the Music School or the
Divinity School, and they complete
degree requirements in their origi~al
schools as normally enrolled students
do. ISM does not confer a degree and
has no established curriculum. Its
students take classes at the Institute
and at the Music and Divinity Schools;
its faculty teaches courses open to
students from both professional schools
as well as to Institute students.

The Institute's only requirements
are attendance at a weekly colloquium
and a final project in the students' last
academic year. The final project, in
the form of a research paper and a
performance or lecture, must address a
topic combining religion and the arts.
In addition, some Institute students
may, like Sherer, enroll in a dual
degree program that confers both the
Master of Arts in Religion (MAR) and
the Master of Music (MM) degrees
after three years. Perhaps its most
valuable resource,
the
Institute's
faculty members serve as advisers and
encourage the independent exploration
of topics and
issues
that cross
disciplinary lines.

For Marian Dolan, a second-year
choral conducting student who directs
Yale Freshman Chorus,
Institu te offers an opportunity to study
the intricacies of choral texts and music
in separate courses. According to her,
"What people encounter as they listen
[to a religious choral work J is the text
through the music. If I were just at the
School of Music, I would only wrestle
with the musical aspects of a piece."
Dolan hopes that her training will give
her a more complete understanding of
the music she rehearses with her
uuden~.


Since the Institute encourages field
work, its students are scattered among
the churches in the New Haven area as
musicians and assistant pastors. But
despite this emphasis on the actual
performance of music and liturgy,
Institute faculty members dismiss the
suggestion that ISM is merely a
practice ground for its music students.
"We are distinctly not a conservatory,"
asserted John Cook, the Institute's
director since 1984. "Our students
come here to get what they can't get in
a conservatory."

What students get is a unique
education which integrates the study of
theology and the artistic expression of
faith. The disciplines converge at the
meeting of the colloquium, the em-
bodiment of the Institute's inter-
disciplinary philosophy. Each week,
the Institute's students and faculty
gather for a lecture and discussion of
academic and social issues in the arts
and religion. "In colloquium, we are
constantly engaged at the nexus where
art, liturgy, and worship come to-
gether," Cook said. "It's a meeting
place for the talents and the minds of
the Institute." Colloquium topics range
from
the secular influences on
Handel's Messiah to Christian art in
the Third World to music in con-
temporary black churches.

Although
faculty
and
v1sltmg
professors deliver most of the lectures,
occasionally students,
like Dolan,
present their final projects at the
Wednesday afternoon meetings.
Dolan's project, which she researched
for nearly a year, deals with the
evolving relationship between
organized religion an d contemporary
Christian music. "Two h undred years
ago, when churches patronized the
arts,
art re flected
theology," she
explained.
Now, Christian artists
attempt to em ploy popular music, a
medium totally beyond the control of
the established church, to convey the
message of the Gosp.el. Their efforts
raise ethical questions for Dolan about
the place today's Christian music has
in religion. "Should a Christian artist
like Amy Grant be sold under a secular
label? Should
she
be singing m
basketball have been
traded for the music
of six practice organs
and four grand
.
p1anos.
churches or Madison Square Garden?"

The Institute's approach transforms
some students' perspectives on the
performance of music in a worsl)ip
setting. "Before I came [to ISM],
music was personal," Sherer explained.
"It was me, the pe1·son, and the
keyboard. And the audience. Now, I
have a clear understanding of who I
play for and why. I see it as more of a
Yehicle for the person in the pew to
come closer to the Spirit." In his field
work at Trinity Church on the Green
and the Episcopal Church at Yale,
Sherer experiences a "magic moment"
when liturgy and music work together.
"They feed off of each other. They
create sort
of a
heightening of
awareness." He paused for a moment,
and then offered an example. "Before,
I would have been comfortable playing
a hymn. I even used to have a formula
set-loud on the first verse, softer,
then a little louder, then the last verse
as loud as the first. With the Institute,
that all goes out the window." Now,
Sherer approaches the organ's console
as a minister approaches the pulpit,
trying to complement the liturgy of a
worship service


For those who do not study music,
the Institute presents a different range
of challenges. Joanna Weber,
a
Divinity student, explained that ISM
encourages her to experiment with
different approaches to her work. A
second-year MAR candidate, Weber
feels that theologians overstress the
importance of documents and ignore
the religious significance of artwork.
This term, she will be comparing the
aesthetic
principles of thirteenth
century Franciscan friars to the ideas
developed by Martin Luther over 200
years later. Weber's interdisciplinary
approach to history will allow her to go
beyond analyzing the
text of a
theological document. She hopes to
project herself into the artists'
environment to understand their
inspiration.

The Institute's approach to the
spiritual world sometimes causes
problems in the material one, namely
the difficulties of pursuing a course of
study between two or more profes-
sional schools. The Institute's hallway
echoes with complaints of schedules
with
conflicting
classes,
of
~~ ..... j
t
~
f j
·~~ .. ~T-~ J
astronomical
parking fines levied
against students as they shuttle up and
down Prospect Hill.

More taxing still are the intellectual
demands of walking straight from a
class on Biblical exegesis to an Art
History lecture or a
conducting
seminar.
Weber admits
that "by
constantly shifting gears, you have the
sense that you're never getting a hold
on something. You have a half hold in
two
different
areas."
Frustrated
students can
turn
to
the strong
community that has developed among
students and faculty, centering on the
Institute's lounge. There, faculty and
students compare notes on theology,
music, or long days at class and work.

It is the students, musicians and
scholars from diverse backgrounds and
with different goals, that draw faculty
to the Institute. "It never occurred to
me to pursue an academic career," said
organist Tom Murray, an assistant
professor of music since 1981. "But
when the opportunity arose, I couldn't
pass it up. Working with gifted stu·
dents is one of the most satisfying
things I know." The reward·s are
simiiar for Paul Brainard, a pro-
fessor of musicology, who teaches


many dl\·mitv students in the intro-
ductorv cour;e Christianitv and thf Arts.
Braina.rd left a full professorship at
Princeton to join the ISM faculty.
"The purpose of most music depart-
ments." he observed. "is to produce
scholars who will go and teach other
scholars. It's a kind of cloning process.
It has its advantages but also some
disadvantages. I'm very happy to be
working with students whose profes-
sional interests arc not those of a
musicologist."

T he priorities of the Institute differ
from those of graduate schools and
even from those of more orthodox
professional schools. To Cook, the
Institute's mission is clear. "We arc
professional the way the Divinity
School or the Music School is profes-
sional. We are not a graduate school,
although research is an important part
of what we do. We continue to work-in
the middle of the dialogue between
worship and art forms, theology. aJild
Biblical studies." Although Instituie
students must stretch between many
disciplines and consequently jeopar-
dize their chance to master any, Weber·
feels that the flexibility they gain is
worth
risk.
"Someone
who's
wearing at least five different hats and
changing them quickly and efficiently,
that's an Institute student," she said.
"They're students,
they're
profes-
sionals,
they
give
concerts."
She
laughed. "You grow up pretty fast over
there."

For the Institute, 1988 marks the
end of the beginning of Tangeman and
Sweeney's religious and artistic
experiment. The last member of the
original faculty recently accepted a ·
position with the Episcopal Diocese of
Connecticut. But with the support of
the endowment and the enthusiasm of
its members, the Institute will continue
its exploration of music and faith, and
where they join company. After 15
years, even from the top of the hill, the
end is nowhere in sight.


**Title: Books/Margery Sokoloff E Pluribus Una The Grounding of Modern Feminism**
**Author: Margery Sokoloff**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Books/Margery Sokoloff 
E Pluribus Una 
The Grounding of Modern Feminism 
by Nancy F. Cott, Yale University Press 
(New Haven and London: 1987) 
829.95, 372 pages. 
Nancy Cott's most recent book, The 
Grounding of Motkm Feminism, would 
perhaps be more appropriately titled 
The Groundings of Modern Feminisms, for 
in defending feminism's vitality, Cott 
stresses its diversity. 
While many 
historians identify the disunity of the 
post-suffrage era as a sign of fem-
inism's failure, Cott, 
professor of 
American 
history 
and chair of 
Women's Studies at Yale, locates in 
this disharmony modern feminism's. 
roots. Describing the period between 
1910 and 1930 as one of "crisis and 
28 The New Journal/February 5, 1988 
transition," Cott shows 
how the 
pervasive "decentralization and 
diversification, competition and even 
sectarianism" among women during 
those years not only informed but 
actually made possible the birth of a 
mass women's movement in the later 
twentieth century. 

The book concentrates on women's 
activities during the 1920's. For those 
unfamiliar with women's history of the 
early twentieth century, who have never 
heard of the Spiderweb Chart or are 
unaware that during the 1920's, 47% of 
undergraduates and 15.1% of Ph.D. 
candidates were women, the factual 
content of Cott's book is fascinating 
and easy to read. For those committed 
to the feminist cause, however, the 
book's 
optimism 
1s 
especially at-
.. 
tractive. From a conflict-ridden period 
of women's history, Cott manages to 
resurrect 
a 
coherent 
picture of 
feminism 
inspirational in effect if 
sometimes only wishful in fact. 

Cott begins by distinguishing the 
nineteenth century "woman move-
ment" from the more recent "women's 
movement," and then 
criticizes 
historians who 
attempt 
to apply 
retrospectively 
the language of 
feminism to the events of the earlY 
twentieth century. Disenfranchised 
and therefore 
politically 
voiceless, 
women at the turn of the century "were 
a distinct social 
class~" forced into 
cooperation by their common mute· 
ness. As the singular "woman" in the 
movement's title suggests, their 
"womanhood" alone easily defined 


their· individual and group identities: 
"rich and poor, socialist and capitalist, 
occasionally even black and white 
could 
be seen 
taking the same 
platform." 

Once women had attained the goal 
of suffrage · in 1920, however, they 
began to vocalize their different, even 
contradictory, views on significant 
social, economic, and political issues. 
Some women, for example, favored as-
sim ilation into the established 
bipartisan system, while others rallied 
for a separate "women's bloc." Some 
advocated the combination of career 
and 
marriage; 
others 
called 
the 
married woman wa.ge-earner "the 
enemy of society." Some supported the 
ERA; others defended gender-based 
labor legislation. After passage of the 
Nineteenth Amendment, paid mem-
bership in the National Woman's Party 
(NWP) declined from approximately 
50,000 in 1919 to a mere 151 in 1921, 
a sure sign of feminism's emerging 
aversion to single-issue politics. 

"I do not think women can be jofned 
together for any one purpose because 
the difference between the reactionary 
and the progressive is too great to be 
bridged," wrote Carrie Chapman Catt 
to a friend in 1927; however, ac-
cording to Nancy Cott, such rifts 
already existed at the turn of the 
century. Even during the fight for 
suffrage, Cott points out, disa-
greements between the Congressional 
Union (later the NWP) and the 
National American Woman Suffrage 
Association over methods could not be 
resolved: the NWP favored a militant 
federal campaign; the NA WSA pre-
fered 
an educative 
state-level 
approach. When in 1917 the NWP 
began to picket the White House, 
"outraged and disgusted with what 
they saw as absence of political sense as 
well as decorum in the NWP, [ mem-
bers of the NAWSAJ desperately 
hoped to quarantine their own public 
irnage from contamination." Cott not 
only documents the numerous post-
suffrage disputes, she also dispels the 
rnyth of unity in the suffrage move-
ment itself. 

R ather than mourn this apparent 
loss 
of solidarity, 
however, 
Cott 
reinterprets "the fracturing of the 
nineteenth century's singular woman" 
as "a success of the 
movement." 
Conflicts, she believes, are consistent 
with feminism since they enact the 
movement's two fundamental para-
doxes: 
Feminism asks for sexual equality 
that includes sexual difference. It 
aims for individual freedoms by 
mobilizing sex solidarity. It posits 
that women recognize their unity 
while it stands for diversity among 
women. 

Cott shows how as early as the 191O's 
tensions existed between "Human 
Feminists," or followers of Charlotte 
Perkins Gilman, and Ellen Key's 
"Female Feminists." The former 
emphasized similarities between all 
humans, the latter glorified woman's 
uniqueness. These differing opinions 
are both compatible with feminism 
since feminism recognizes diversity 
among women, and moreover, since 
the basis for women's differences 
reflect feminism's own ambivalence 
about the meaning of sexual equality. 
Women and men are of the same 
species though of different sexes, and, 
without denying gender, feminism 
demands an end to the stigmatization 
of this difference. According to Cott, 
disagreements among women have 
tended to 
reflect 
this essential 
doubleness of feminism's main tenets. 

Cott herself grapples with 
implicitly 
paradoxical nature of 
feminism as she tries to define the 
term. On the one hand, Cott calls for 
an ahistorical redefinition of feminism 
that comprehends 
nineteenth 
century woman and suffrage move-
ments and that embraces rather than 
avoids conflict. Opposition to sex 
hierarchy, 
belief that woman's 
condition is socially constructed, and 
recognition of women as a social 
grouping are, Cott contends, the three 
core components of any "feminist" 
perspective, regardless of historical 
context. At the same time, however, 
by positing the origin of modern 
feminism in the 1910's and its debut at 
the end of the suffrage movement, Cott 
locates the movement in a specific 
historical moment. Cott seems to want 
simultaneously to distinguish feminism 
from preceding movements and to 
assert the 
prevalence of modern 
feminist traces in those earlier times. 

This sort o f vacillation, though often 
confusing, is characteristic of gender-
based analyses of h istory and culture. 
Because 
social 
linguistic 
construct called "gender" happens to 
have a biological counterpart called 
"sex," woman's relation to her gender-
identity is necessarily complex. 
Feminist literary critics, for example, 
maintain incompatible notions of their 
own school of thought. While con-
A perhaps temporary 
diversion of women's 
attention from their 
"womanness" can be 
seen only as a victory. 
tending that feminist literary criticism 
invades and rethinks other critical 
schools, they also want to believe that 
their criticism is valid and useful on its 
own. Feminist literary theorists want 
both to combine with and to remain 
separate from 
traditional critical 
modes. T hey want to be Marxist-
Feminists, 
Freudian-Feminists and 
just plain Feminists; they want to 
assert the artificiality of gender and 
still believe that women have the 
potential for a language of their own. 

Thus, Cott's own ambivalence in this 
respect does not necessarily reflect a 
personal confusion but rather affirms 
the inherently paradoxical nature of a 
feminist project. 

Cott complicates her definition even 
further, however, when she attempts to 
justify the content of her 
book. 
Although she claims to have chosen 
only those women and organizations 
"who themselves claimed the name of 
The New JournaVFebruary 5, 1988 29 


'woman's cause' or feminism," many 
of the 
wom~n described reject 
feminism outright. For example, the 
professional women, attracted to the 
rationality and 
objectivity of the 
"learned" areas, tended to characterize 
their achievements as human, not 
female. Similarly, as feminism became 
increasingly associated with socialism 
and . lesbianism, women fighting for 
sexual 
liberation associated 
their 
efforts more with the social sciences 
than with feminism. By and large, 
Cott admits, 
" I n 
contrast to 
nineteenth-century women's small 
likelihood of distinction except in 
woman's rights or woman-oriented 
activities, twentieth century women 
stood out as individuals, for pursuits 
not obviously determined by sex nor 
undertaken for the advancement of 
their sex." Unfortunately, this growing 
individualism among active women 
often contradicts Cott's rationale for 
including them in her book. 

It is 
perha.ps more 
helpful 
to 
consider the content of Cott's book in 
light of the ambitiousness of her 
undertaking. 
In 
celebrating the 
heterogeneity of women Cott enters 
dangerous territory. She risks being 
either too broad, and thereby equating 
feminism with "what women did," or 
too narrow, and not accounting for all 
variation. 

The Grounding of Modem 
Feminism achieves an awkward balance 
between the two: it seems a little of 
both. Although in the first chapter, 
Cott mentions the three core com-
ponents of feminism, she never alludes 
to them again, and instead, the mere 
inclusion of an event seems to define it 
as feminist. In extolling the diversity of 
feminist women, Cott often obscures 
underlying similarities, and after seven 
chapters of conflict, one loses sight of 
the overarching unity. 

But while the book seems, at times, 
artificially comprehensive, Cott 
actually limits her discussion mainly to 
privileged women. In a book that 
professes to document heterogeneity 
among women and to endorse the 
development of various "feminisms," 
such a limitation seems inappropriate 
30 The New Journal/February 5, 1988 
if not irresponsible. Cott admits ·in the 
introduction that, "The woman's rights 
tradition was historically initiated by, 
and remains prejudiced toward, those 
who perceive themselves firc:t and 
foremost as 'woma.>1', who can gloss 
over their class, racial and other status 
identifications 
because 
those are 
culturally dominant and therefore 
relatively 
invisible." Instead of 
dismantling this racism and classism, 
however, her book recapitulates it. 

Black women are dropped from the 
book as quickly as they dropped out of 
the NWP after the 1921 convention. 
Although she devotes one section of 
one chapter to the differing attitudes of 
working class and educated women 
toward having a career, this chapter, 
more than any other, stresses the 
similarities over the differences of 
women in conflict. 

Cott concludes, "Without coalescing 
i n to one movement, 
without 
mobilizing the mass, 
and often 
declining the label feminist, individual 
and group efforts nonetheless sparked 
again and again." By the end of the 
book it seems that the only workable 
definition 
of "feminism" 
is 
its 
paradoxical nature or essential 
doubleness. 

T he definition Cott 
initially proposes for early feminism 
Conflicts, she believes, 
are consistent with 
feminism. 
befits her conception of modern 
feminism as well. "What distinguished 
the feminism of the 1910's," Cott 
insists, "was its very multifaceted 
constitution, the fact that its several 
strands were all loudly voiced and 
mutally recognized as part of the same 
phenomenon of female avant-garde 
self-assertion. None of its single tenets 
was brand new ... [only] that potential 
to encompass opposites." 

On the one hand, such a definition 
compromises an immediate sense of 
unity within feminism. On the other 
hand, a perhaps temporary diversion 
of women's attention 
from 
"womanness" can be seen only as a 
victory for a movement aimed to 
invent a "human sex." Moreover, if as 
Cott indicates, 
our culture 
has 
traditionally asserted the similarity 
between all women and registered 
gender difference hierarchically, the 
. recognition that diversity exists among 
women, as among men, is certainly an 
achievement. Women, though of the 
same sex, 
differ 
racially, 
socio-
economically, 
politically, 
as 
human beings. 

In the last paragraph of the book, 
briefly 
alludes 
revocali-zation of feminism in the 
1960's and 1970's when, she claims, 
women began to speak again in terms 
of unity- now derived not from their 
"womanhood" as in the nineteenth 
century, but from their experience as 
members of a "sex-class." The modern 
women's movement is, she contends, a 
culmination of several decades of 
diversification and proves that 
plurality need not preclude trans-
cendent solidarity. Thus The Grounding 
of Modem F"eminism, much like Cott's 
previous The Bonds of Womanhood, is 
ultimately an optimistic book not only 
because it favorably reinterprets a 
chaotic period of women's history, but 
also because by so doing, it inspires a 
sense of solidarity, purpose, and hope 
for the women's movement now and in 
the future. 

• 
Margery Sokoloff is a senior in Saybrook. 



**Title: ANNOUNCING ... TYCO'S Newest Addition • • • APPLE MACINTOSH SE**
**Author: TYCO Copy Center**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
.ANNOUNCING ... 
TYCO'S Newest Addition • • • 
APPLE MACINTOSH SE 
Featuring: 
Laser Writer Plus 
for a clean, professional look 
WORD PROCESSING AT ITS BEST!! 
unlimited solutions for students and businesses 
TYCO Copy Center 
262 Elm Street in New Haven 
562·9723 
The New Journal/February 5, 1988 31


**Title: QCF class agents**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 32**

' 
QCF class agents 
to make a pledge to ou 
an annual basis, will 
Class's 25th reunion gift. 
, CT 06508 203-432-6076 

