Publication date: MAY 2022
Volume: 54
Issue number: 5

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors-In-Chief: Nicole Dirks, Dereen Shirnekhi
- Executive Editor: Jesse Goodman
- Managing Editor: J. D. Wright
- Associate Editors: Samara Angel, Amal Biskin, Meg Buzbee, Jabez Choi, Lazo Gitchos, Ella Goldblum, Yonatan Greenberg, Abbey Kim, Yosef Malka, Cleo Maloney, Paola Santos, Kylie Volavongsa
- Senior Editors: Beasie Goddu, Madison Hahamy, Noa Rosinplotz, Katherine Yao
- Copy Editors: Marie Bong, Adrian Elizalde, Julia Hornstein, Rafaela Kottou, Edie Lipsey, Lukas Trelease, Yingying Zhao
- Creative Director: Annli Nakayama
- Design Editors: Meg Buzbee, Sophia Elizalde
- Photography Editor: Lukas Flippo
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- Advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Lincoln Caplan, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rawbin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, Leslie Dach, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Gabriel Snyder, Elizabeth Steig, Aliyya Swaby, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- SECOND EXILE -  
- BODY POLITICS - Jovanni Cabanas
- A DYING BUSINESS -  
- A MATTER OF BROWSING - Tyler Jager
- WELL, WELL, THE WELL? - Yosef Malka
- BEHIND THE GLASS - Judah Millen
- THIRTY-TWO TOO. - Madelyn Dawson
- SISAL - Kylie Volavongsa
- LESSON - Awuor Onguru
- WILD ONIONS - Rachel Shin
- TAKE ONE, IT'S FREE - Serena Lin
- REVEALING YOUR HAND - Isabella Yang
- THE POPSICLES ARE MELTING AGAIN - Abigail Dixon
- CAR WINDOW - Abbey Kim
- BIKE INSURANCE - Paola Santos
- crossword - Rafaela Kottou
- endnote - Yonatan Greenberg
-  - Jesse Goodman


**Title: SECOND EXILE**
**Author:** 
**Page number(s): 1, 3**

For years, city officials knew about hazardous levels of lead in the homes of resettled refugees, yet several families were exposed. What went wrong?


**Title: BODY POLITICS**
**Author: Jovanni Cabanas**
**Page number(s): 3**

Jovanni Cabanas navigates identity, embodiment, and a flawed drag performance scene.


**Title: A DYING BUSINESS**

At the West Haven Funeral Home, Celia Pinzi keeps her macabre business alive in an increasingly challenging industry.


**Title: A MATTER OF BROWSING**
**Author: Tyler Jager**
**Page number(s): 4**



**Title: WELL, WELL, THE WELL?**
**Author: Yosef Malka**
**Page number(s): 6**



**Title: BEHIND THE GLASS**
**Author: Judah Millen**
**Page number(s): 9**



**Title: THIRTY-TWO TOO.**
**Author: Madelyn Dawson**
**Page number(s): 17**



**Title: SISAL**
**Author: Kylie Volavongsa**
**Page number(s): 36**



**Title: LESSON**
**Author: Awuor Onguru**
**Page number(s): 37**



**Title: WILD ONIONS**
**Author: Rachel Shin**
**Page number(s): 38**



**Title: TAKE ONE, IT'S FREE**
**Author: Serena Lin**
**Page number(s): 11**



**Title: REVEALING YOUR HAND**
**Author: Isabella Yang**
**Page number(s): 21**



**Title: THE POPSICLES ARE MELTING AGAIN**
**Author: Abigail Dixon**
**Page number(s): 34**



**Title: CAR WINDOW**
**Author: Abbey Kim**
**Page number(s): 46**



**Title: BIKE INSURANCE**
**Author: Paola Santos**
**Page number(s): 48**


**Title: crossword**
**Author: Rafaela Kottou**
**Page number(s): 49**


**Title: endnote**
**Author: Yonatan Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 51**



**A Matter of Browsing**
**Author: Yosef Malka**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 4
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Yale professors view him as the angel of death, Sam 
Burton jokes, because he visits them before they die to 
relieve them of their literary treasures. As the owner 
of Grey Matter Books, he is not just a bookseller, 
but a master collector for his customers. His search 
for fresh, intriguing books often means waking up at 
the crack of dawn, scouring trunks at estate sales, and 
traversing the state to poke around in long forgot­
ten collections. It can lead him anywhere: recently, 
he found himself fishing for books in the wine cellar 
of a man who “supposedly killed his wife…and then 
committed suicide.” 

Burton has worked as a book buyer for thirty years. 
He started at the Strand in New York City, where he 
jokes that you could get a job “if you knew who Vir­
ginia Woolf was.” From the Strand, Burton moved to 
San Francisco and finally to Powell’s in Portland, Ore­
gon. After an interlude selling books online, which 
was “lonely and alienating,” Burton established two 
bookstores of his own, hoping to recapture an inti­
macy with surrounding communities that bookstores 
like the Strand and Powells have lost since becoming 
national empires. The first Grey Matter is in Hadley, 
Massachusetts, and the second is on York Street, nes­
tled within the imposing shadow of Sterling Memo­
rial Library. 

The harm that the internet has done to brick-and-
mortar bookstores is well-known. But they still exist, 
argues Paul Freedman, a professor and food histo­
rian at Yale, because algorithms such as Amazon’s are 
“laughable”—they will never replicate the experience 
of browsing. “The whole point is to emerge from the 
store with something you hadn’t been looking for,” 
he says. On a recent trip through New England, he 
and his wife happened upon a small used bookstore 
with a large collection of community cookbooks—
recipes assembled and bound by small communities 
to give to friends and record important dishes. Freed­
man took home the “Rolls Royce Club Cookbook,” 
a cookbook created by members of a car club. The 
rigid categories and subcategories of online stores and 
research databases, Freedman speculates, would have 
made it near impossible to find something so unique.

“I don’t lament as many things as other people do,” 
Freedman insists. Freedman has faith that books are 
not like vinyl, destined to become vintage relics. He 
believes the internet’s ability to categorize material 
will never replace the feeling of browsing for used 
books or scouring through archives—what Freedman 
calls “the thrill of the chase.”

Burton embodies this nonchalant optimism about 
the fate of the used book. He does not romanticize the 
book trade. There are no signs in Grey Matter implor­
ing customers to support struggling used bookstores. 
“I don't feel that missionary about really anything,” 
Burton says. “The only thing I feel strongly about is 
having enough cheap books…you can get a copy of 
Dante for $3, or Homer for less than the price of a 
sandwich across the street,” he reminds me. “Mine are 
always cheaper than [Amazon's].”

But Burton’s model is also not driven by pure eco­
nomic efficiency. Most used books are “garbage any­
way, or they’re just kind of bland, or common,” he 
says, referring to the quickly recycled popular fiction 
that you will never see in Grey Matter. Instead, he lets 
his own tastes and growing sensibility for the com­
munity’s preferences drive his book buying and shape 
the store’s selection. He has found that his taste is usu­
ally “positively reinforced” by his customers, but he 
also takes notes about our literary preferences. “The 
hunger for classics, for Latin stuff, Greek stuff [in 
New Haven] is pretty much bottomless,” he reports. 
Henry James books seem to fly off the shelves, but “I 
can go a month without selling a Henry James book 
at the other store. And you take note.”

While I was interviewing Burton, he reached back 
and pulled out a book of sonnets by Raymond Que­
neau, sliced into horizontal strips to invite the reader 
to make their own poems in various permutations. 
“This is something that, in a way, I hope I don’t sell, 
cause I think I like having it around.” Burton bought 
the book from a convicted forger, he reports with a 
grin. “Luckily that one was not signed.” For now, 
the book sits on the back wall above the check-out 
counter. “There’s a lot of stuff that I like having, that 
I’m not in a big hurry to sell, although after a couple 
of years, I’ll either take it home or I’ll mark it down 
and actually price it to sell.” 

From a perch amongst the unruly stacks of recent 
acquisitions, a boisterous voice chimed in. “Sam is a 
pioneer!” exclaimed Jay Gitlin, a Senior Lecturer in 
American History at Yale, and a regular at Grey Mat­
ter. For him, browsing is therapeutic. It’s a chance to 
discover new ideas that hadn’t occurred to him and 
hold a piece of communal history from the collections 
of Yale scholars. He is grateful to Burton for helping 
keep print culture alive and encourages his students 
to buy paper copies of the books he assigns from Grey 
Matter whenever possible. While he does lament the 
passage of many used bookstores that used to line the 
streets of New Haven during his undergraduate days, 
he sees Burton and Grey Matter as “the forefront of a 
changing of the guard.” 

According to Freedman, there used to be a book 
buyer from West Virginia who specialized in buy­
ing out the collections of aging Yale professors, and 
it seems that Burton has largely taken over that role. 
Burton reserves the slim shelf facing York Street for 
the collections of late professors—a sort of literary 
gravestone. Rather than distributing these books by 
subject throughout the store, he keeps the collections 
intact and affixes a sign with the name of the pro­
fessor. “My concerns are always more about getting 
books than selling them,” Burton muses. In recent 
years, he has acquired books from the collections of 
renowned scholars including Geoffrey Hartman and 
Immanuel Wallerstein.


--- Page 5 ---
MAY 2022
 5
“People like me are desperate to get rid of books…I 
can’t bring these books home,” Freedman tells me, 
pointing to his office shelves. “These aren’t particu­
larly valuable. I’m not going to live in my old age 
with books piled on the floor everywhere.” This is 
the golden age of book collecting, Freedman claims, 
because there is little demand for the books being dis­
carded. 

Burton’s trips to appraise collections and buy books 
from people who are getting older and starting to 
downsize are often “intense and personal,” he reflects. 
Freedman went through this process with his parents 
when they passed away ten years ago; he could not 
keep all of their books, and instead sold them off as a 
collection to an estate liquidator. “They were unsell­
able…I wonder what they did with the 90 percent of 
stuff [that has] no commercial value.” Burton’s pro­
cess is similar: he remembers purchasing four thou­
sand books from the collection of J. Hillis Miller, a 
member of the Yale school of deconstructionist lit­
erary critics. Burton estimated that four hundred of 
them would sell. 

Part of what keeps the community coming back to 
Grey Matter is a chance to inherit books from thinkers 
like Miller. The selection of the store takes its shape 
from the collections that Burton purchases. Even­
tually, he says, he will bring many of these books—
including an inscribed Edward Said—out of storage. 
“I’ve had this long standing plan to have a second rare 
book case that will be more focused on the history of 
ideas, [but] IKEA has been out of this cabinet for two 
years. So that’s, that’s horrible.” 

Walking into Grey Matter, I gravitate towards the 
massive philosophy section at the center of the store. 
Burton studied philosophy as an undergraduate and 
wanted the subject to have a prominent place in his 
sanctuary. I glance around to see what’s new: the 
shelves at Grey Matter look completely different from 
week to week. This week, there’s a beautiful hard­
cover set of Montaigne’s complete essays. Its colorful 
dust jacket and thin but sturdy pages are tempting. 
Do I really need to spend $15 on this right now? It’s 
a completely reasonable price, but I set it back down 
and decide to wait a few days. The next time I return, 
it’s already been sold. I am not disappointed: I am 
confident another will crop up before long. 

Burton has dedicated his life to wading through 
this literary labyrinth—to chasing and searching and 
bringing the books worth saving to a community 
with a seemingly endless desire for them. “I’m always 
at least trying to guess what is going to mean some­
thing to people around here,” Burton reflects. As I 
browse my way through Grey Matter and assemble 
my own collection, I know that thanks to Burton, 
I am inheriting from a grand collection built from 
those who came before me. 
—Yosef Malka is a sophomore in Morse College and 
an Associate Editor of The New Journal.



**Well, Well, The Well?**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 6**

 6
I often find myself strolling through the bowels of 
the Schwarzman Center, Bow Wow sushi in hand, in 
search of a quiet place to study. Occasionally, tempted 
by the porthole-like windows on the double doors 
at the base of the rotunda, I bypass the bustling Elm 
and approach the Schwarzman Center’s new bar, The 
Well. Peering inside, I’m beckoned by a scene that’s 
part speakeasy, part corporate waiting room, with 
warm lighting, brass fixtures, and orange armchairs 
galore. On one such sojourn, I mustered the courage 
to attempt to swipe in, only to be thwarted by the 
jarring red beep of the card scanner. Was my intrigue 
insufficient for admission to The Well? It was exclu­
sive. It was strange. I needed to know more.

A few days later, sitting in the Starr Reading 
Room on a spring evening, the magnetic draw of 
The Well—now newly open for business—reached a 
fever pitch. I couldn’t stay away any longer. I shoved 
my laptop into my backpack and trudged across the 
pristine granite of Beinecke Plaza and back into the 
Schwarzman basement. This time was different. I was 
greeted at the door of The Well by a friendly bar­
tender who scanned my ID and wrapped a printed 
band around my wrist, which listed my full name, 
birth date, and driver’s license number. Although the 
white plastic of the wristband made me feel as though 
I had just entered a hospital rather than a bar, I was 
glad to have finally made it in. The bartender surveyed 
the almost-empty room and told me that it could get 
busier, sometimes. When I asked her what it’s like to 
work in The Well, her face lit up: “This is the best job 
in the world: we get to see whatever happens here. 
When the professors start to loosen up a bit and begin 
offering to buy people drinks…” She trailed off but 
quickly caught herself: “of course, nothing scandalous 
happens, but it is interesting.”

        	My intrigue intensified and I approached 
the bar in hopes of loosening up myself. As I perused 
the menu, a few balding men wearing blazers spoke 
in hushed tones on one side of me, while a woman 
laughed loudly with the bartender on the other. I 
ordered a beverage entitled, rather meticulously, 
“American Hard Cider Stormalong Unfiltered Wall­
ingford, CT Blue Hills Orchard EST 1904 Hard 
Cider.” I sipped my drink (which was delicious) and 
plopped down in a chair. As I sat observing the scene, 
lit by a soft golden light, I was struck by the odd­
ness of the space. A few men in their mid-twenties 
wearing khaki pants arrived and awkwardly high-
fived one another before quickly downing a couple of 
beers. Some tattooed graduate students laughed in the 
corner over their glasses of sauvignon blanc. Despite 
being firmly in the heart of Yale’s campus, I felt pro­
foundly uncertain about my surroundings. What was 
this place? Was I the only undergrad present? After 
finishing my drink, I rose and ascended the stairs back 
into the dark, warm night.

Later, in hopes of settling my confusion, I began 
probing whatever authorities I could find on The 
Well. The Schwarzman Center website promises that 
one can “refresh and unwind under the Rotunda… 
[in this] 21+ pub with comfortable seating and a 
curved, two-level bar.” The sparse description left 
me with more questions than answers, primarily: 
why was this place created in the first place? To my 
disappointment, my emails to Schwarzman Center 
employees went deflected or unanswered. I decided 
that my inquiry would require me to traverse through 
the murky depths of the internet, and, beckoned by 
the second yellow ‘O’ in the “Goooooooooogle” at 
the bottom of the page, I forged on.

There, I found a website linking to the designers of 
The Well. I contacted Melissa DelVecchio, of Rob­
ert A.M. Stern Architects, LLP, the head architect for 
the Schwarzman Center project. DelVecchio claimed 
that the idea for The Well came from students, who 
she said requested a place where those of age could 
responsibly consume adult beverages together as part 
of the 2015 report to President Salovey. “[Our team] 



**Title: BEHIND THE GLASS**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“The attic was a fascinating place for me,” reads a 
note atop six panels of navy blue linework drawings. 
In the upper three panels, a young boy digs around an 
old chest, discovering a gun, bullets, a grenade, and 
other military equipment. In the lower three panels, 
another character comes across some clothing, a vial 
of morphine, and a sword. The caption: “Attic discov­
eries—1925 and 2020.”

It seems like what the characters are really discov­
ering is pieces of themselves; we are just not sure 
what. Simone Hasselmo, who uses any pronouns, 
drew these panels as part of one of their first longform 
comic projects in which they explore their grand­
father’s experiences growing up in Nazi Germany, 
alongside their own experiences in medical school. As 
my eyes travel from panel to panel, I am struck by the 
unchanged expressions of innocence on their charac­
ters’ faces as time inevitably passes.

“I don't think I would be doing it if I felt like I had a 
choice,” Simone Hasselmo, a Yale School of Medicine 
student tells me about their passion for zine and comic 
making. For Hasselmo, narrative art is a compulsion—
one that informs and is informed by their passion for 
medicine. Hasselmo’s art combines the clarity and 
precision of comic-style minimalism with the com­
plicated nature of their identity—leaning on humor, 
caricature, and the exploration of familial bonds. But 
narrative art doesn't just contain Hasselmo’s iden­
tity. It informs it, too. They are able to explore their 
own relationships, like that with their grandfather, as 
well as their own queerness and femininity, they tell 
me. Like an attic discovery, zine-making provides a 
medium for Hasselmo to uncover parts of themself, to 
interrogate their identity. But this would not always 
have been possible for someone like Hasselmo.

The modern conceptualization of the zine arose 
first in post-World War I science fiction circles. They 
came to be known as an art form that combined 
images and writings, often self-published and created 
by individuals or a small handful of people. Fans of the 
medium would use them to share literature and ideas 
they were passionate about. In the nineteen-nineties, 
a third-wave feminist movement called Riot Grrrl 
expanded the countercultural significance of the zine, 
and centered it around the experiences of young, 
often lesbian and bisexual women making radically 
feminist punk music. 

Despite how progressive the Riot Grrrl creators 
were, the scene was almost completely dominated 
by cisgender white women. Not only were trans­
gender and BIPOC women denied the same plat­
form and prominence, many of the white, cisgen­
der musicians within the scene continued to remain 
loyal to trans-exclusionary radical feminist causes. 
For instance, artists like Kathleen Hanna of the Riot 
Grrrl band and zine both titled Bikini Kill performed 
at a festival called Michfest, which was marketed as 
only for “womyn born womyn.” Transmisogyny 
and racism existed in the Riot Grrrl community, 
but concurrent movements emerged that were more 
inclusive. Women of color during this time created 
something known as Sista Grrrl Riots, as a rejection 
of Riot Grrrl’s exclusivity. The Riot Grrrl movement 
fell mostly apart only a few years after its inception, 
and zine-making became more and more inclusive as 
it persisted into the twenty-first century. Though still 
far from perfect, there exists a robust zine community 
today, built on collaboration, collectivity, and support 
of each other's art.

For a creator like Hasselmo, whose zines connect 
them to the present, zines are more than just historical 
artifacts. “I’m actually a really private person,” Has­
selmo tells me. “But I somehow just feel the need to 
get my experiences down on paper.” 

Despite being a self-proclaimed private person, 
Hasselmo finds joy and meaning in New Haven’s zine 
and comic arts community. Hasselmo was featured 
recently on February 26 at the New Haven Zine Fair 
at Bradley Street Bicycle Co-Op, organized by Con­
necticunt Magazine and Bridge and Tunnel Crowd. 
The Fair offered space for queer creators, like Has­
selmo, to share their experiences through their art and 
engage with a community that is beginning to reflect 
a more multi-faceted queer experience that includes 


**Title: The Well at Yale: A Misguided Half-Measure?**
**Author: Judah Millen**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

MAY 2022
 7
discovered that the space below the Rotunda had 
beautiful foundation walls made of local Stony Creek 
Granite hidden behind the plaster,” she said, “making 
it a natural fit for the student-requested area where 
alcohol could be served.” Surprised by the notion 
that students had spearheaded the idea for The Well, 
I searched for the document DelVecchio mentioned.
The closest thing I could find was a ninety-six-page 
report from 2015 entitled “The Schwarzman Center 
Advisory Committee: Report to Yale President Peter 
Salovey.” The titular committee, composed of only 
twelve students (four of whom were undergraduates) 
and fifteen faculty and staff, envisioned in meticulous 
detail the space and programs that would one day 
comprise the Schwarzman Center: “‘Sunrise Yoga’ 
lessons in the Dome Room at seven a.m.,” “periodic 
wine and cheese parties for g&p students…in the 
Presidents’ Room,” and “several Yale minibuses…
on site to take students safely home” are just some of 
the many offerings described with rhetorical flourish. 
It was replete with flashy graphics, five appendices, 
a narrative describing “A Day in Schwarzman,” and 
only passing discussion of The Well. This seemed 
to be the official document which largely informed 
the completed Schwarzman Center we know today. 
Although this document did reference a space which 
would sometimes serve alcohol—“We do think that 
wine and beer should be available in the Bistro in the 
evenings,” it says—it contained scant rationale for 
such a space. The committee wrote that, “We hold 
the hope that offering beer and wine will stem the 
‘pre-gaming’ drinking tendency, at least for events at 
the Schwarzman Center.” Although it did seem that 
some students had some minor role in the idea for The 
Well, I was curious whether this was representative of 
the student body’s views as a whole.

I continued my search and found a document from 
2014 titled “Student Center at Yale,” released by the 
Yale College Council (YCC), the Graduate and Pro­
fessional Student Senate (GPSS), and the Graduate 
Student Assembly (GSA). In this eleven-page doc­
ument, where the student governments argued for 
the merits of a student center, there were no refer­
ences to the sipping of spirits. The document had the 
word “alcohol” fourteen times, with the suffix “-free” 
appended almost every time. Student desires centered 
on a departure from Yale’s drinking culture, rather 
than further investment in it. My confusion abounded. 
DelVecchio claimed that the vision for a bar came 
from a student request. While the 2015 report she ref­
erenced did indeed include a vague recommendation 
for a space which served alcohol, it did not clearly 
indicate that this came from the students (who com­
posed a minority of the committee) and provided only 
minimal rationale for the space. When contrasted with 
the enthusiasm and idealism with which the student 
governments had described their vision of a space to 
provide alcohol-free programming—described as “a 
student center with compelling alternatives to drink­
ing [which] would disentangle campus-wide social 
interaction and alcohol consumption…[and] foster a 
greater sense of community across the university”—I 
found DelVecchio’s claim of student support for The 
Well to be unconvincing.

I wondered if student attitudes towards a bar on 
campus had grown more outwardly favorable in the 
past eight years, so I turned to my friends for their 
perspectives. “Schwarzman is just made to entertain 
Yale’s donors, surely The Well is no different,” came 
one cynical response. “I am just waiting until a pro­
fessor holds office hours there,” another friend chuck­
led as we walked by it one day. “I think it would be 
inappropriate if [a professor] is even sighted there!” a 
third friend responded. I had yet to find a student who 
was enthusiastic about The Well, although there were 
plenty who were skeptical. 

As if in answer to my continued bewilderment, an 
email arrived from Dr. Maurice Harris, the Direc­
tor of Marketing and Communications for the 
Schwarzman Center. “The design and programming 
of Yale Schwarzman Center, based on the vision of 
Yale’s three student governments,” he wrote, “called 
for a space onsite that could offer beer and wine to 
stem the ‘pre-gaming’ drinking tendency.” He added 
that, originally, The Underground would have hosted 
the beer and wine offerings, but planners feared the 
risk of underage drinking in such a “popular, all-ages 
venue.” Finally, he concluded, “The Well provides a 
way to honor students’ original vision while enforc­
ing our commitment to the care and safety of our 
Yale community.”

This appeal to students’ enjoyment of partying 
seemed to be an insufficient explanation, too. The 
phrase “pre-gaming tendency” was also used in the 
Schwarzman Center Advisory Committee report, 
which barely referenced spaces that serve alcohol. If 
Harris’ discussion of “Yale’s three student govern­
ments” is a reference to the report from 2014, then 
his claim that a space serving alcohol was the vision 
of the student governments seems untrue. That report 
never asks for a place that serves alcohol, instead argu­
ing for the merits of alcohol-free socialization. If he 
is instead referencing the 2015 Schwarzman report, 


--- Page 8 ---

 8
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
claiming that the recommendation of the committee 
(with a minority of students) is the “students’ vision” 
seems an exaggeration. Perhaps there is another, defin­
itive declaration of the student governments’ vision? 
Hours of searching yielded no answer, and when I 
asked Dr. Harris for clarification, he directed me to 
a website which only included links to the 2014 and 
2015 reports. These reports hardly constitute evidence 
for a pre-existing student desire for The Well––and 
verge on cherry-picking. It seemed that the adminis­
tration’s carefully crafted language and repeated attri­
bution to the student governments' vision lacked any 
definitive proof in the public record; in fact, there was 
ample evidence to the contrary.

Yale presents itself as a progressive institution that 
believes in harm reduction, which fits its reputation as 
an Ivy League school home to a relatively robust social 
scene. Rather than RAs who administer punishment 
for underage drinking, Yale employs FroCos who pour 
out the alcohol when they catch first-years with red 
Solo cups. The University asks all students to undergo 
training administered by The Office of the Alcohol 
and Other Drugs Harm Reduction Initiative, which 
promises that they will not get in trouble or have their 
parents contacted if they seek help for alcohol-related 
health incidents. But when it comes to implementing 
safety measures that threaten to compromise their rep­
utation, Yale falls short. Although there is no Greek 
life officially sanctioned by the University, Yale coex­
ists with frat houses that throw raucous parties only 
steps from its academic buildings and most of its first-
year dorms. Students are still commonly brought to 
Yale Health in ambulances due to alcohol poisoning, 
fraternities are the sites of sexual assaults involving 
intoxicated students, and it is socially acceptable for 
people to drink as frequently as five nights per week. 
This culture does not seem healthy or balanced, but 
Yale allows it to exist.

The Well, on the surface, seems like another mis­
guided half-measure to reduce harm without really 
changing anything—a student-safety advertisement 
wrapped in a Yale bow. In reality, students didn’t 
seem to ask for anything close to The Well, nor does 
it reduce the “pre-gaming tendency” for the quarter of 
the undergraduate population that’s of legal drinking 
age. Are we meant to believe an on-campus bar that 
closes at 11 p.m., serves single glasses of beer that cost 
as much as a handle of cheap liquor, attracts mainly 
professors, and lacks all the charming interior décor 
of Sig Nu is really going to tempt students away from 
their Dubra shots and drinking games?

Rather than taking further steps to address the 
many issues facing the student body, the Universi­
ty’s choice to sink millions of dollars into the con­
struction of The Well allows Yale to applaud itself 
for reducing “pre-gaming” without designing an 
establishment to do that. This carefully constructed 
space reflects a familiar tactic of the administration in 
dealing with student complaints: it curates exclusive 
spaces that appear to be a solution, but in fact leave 
the roots of problems intact. To a professor or donor 
sitting in the basement of Schwarzman, watching one 
or two students slowly sip their alcoholic beverages, 
the drinking culture of Yale might appear safe. Yet 
this does not capture the mad, weekly rush to High 
Street, the toilet bowls full of vomit, and the ambu­
lance calls routinely made by concerned friends after 
long Saturday nights. Melisa DelVecchio’s team may 
have peeled back the plaster of the basement room, 
but their true contribution was not to reveal beautiful 
Stony Creek Granite: it was to hide the dark reality of 
the Yale Administration’s often dangerous and dys­
functional attitude towards alcohol consumption on 
campus.
—Judah Millen is a sophomore in Pierson College.



**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: Madelyn Dawson**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 10
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
disabled creators, asexual creators, transgender cre­
ators, and creators of color.

For as long as people have been creating them, 
zines have been a communal medium. As a zine cre­
ator myself, I have grown used to connecting on all 
levels with other creators, circulating my magazines 
by trading back and forth with other creators, giv­
ing a piece of myself in return for a small window 
into another worldview. Zines at Yale, though, are all 
the more complicated. Thousands of pieces of paper 
memorabilia are held in Yale’s Queer Zines, Maga­
zines, and Newspapers Collection. The archive is vast 
and varied. I was touched by handwritten love notes 
on the backside of sepia stained photographs—decla­rations of queer vulnerability and longing are all the 
more painful when confined to vignettes. I was almost 
embarrassed reading Brat Attack, a 1993 black, white, 
and red comic newsletter that was full of visual and 
textual imagery, sparing no details about the experi­
ence of queer femme sex and bondage. The last zine 
I explored was the best: the words of Allison Wolfe 
of the femme punk band Bratmobile in the zine Girl 
Germs, examining what it means to be “punk” and 
writing, “We should really think about and talk about 
what punk means to us and who we really are and 
what kind of privilege (or lack of) we come from.”

Yet, as someone familiar with both the history and 
present face of zine culture, it was troubling to visit 
the archive room. Why were they even there? Zines 
have always been deeply intertwined with their cre­
ators and their zine communities, and in the folders of 
a Yale archival collection, even the most lively expres­
sions of alternative, progressive culture are reduced to 
inert records. The troubled yet important history of 
collectivity that they represent is completely tucked 
away in the recesses of an institution which, for a lot 
of people, represents the same status quo that contrib­
uted to their exclusivity. 

In 1989, the Yale Police Department arrested activ­
ist Bill Dobbs for hanging posters in Yale Law School 
to spread awareness of AIDS care groups in New 
Haven. Many artists and prominent figures of zine 
culture died of AIDS, largely due to the negligence 
and homophobia of powerful institutions. In fact, less 
than a year after Dobbs’ arrest, the artist Keith Har­
ing died due to complications with AIDS. Now, just 
a few decades later, how we are supposed to accept 
that Haring’s work is sitting in a collection of archives 
owned by an institution that perpetuated queer vio­
lence durning his lifetime? Bikini Kill, probably the 
most lastingly popular zine of the Riot Grrrl move­
ment sits closed, untouchable, behind a glass case as 
part of an exhibition called Points of Contact, Points of 
View. With or without the glass, as long as they are 
tucked away in little folders, we will never confront 
them as part of a living history.

On campus, as marginalized students carve spaces 
for themselves that prioritize inclusivity and accessi­
bility, zines have found their place. I am drawn most 
to a zine on campus called DOWN Mag. Lighthearted 
listicles are an important aspect of their content, such 
as one example entitled “Nonhuman Characters That 
We All Know Are Black,” which includes Marceline 
the Vampire Queen from Adventure Time as well as all 
of the penguins from Happy Feet. But they also pro­
duce more serious pieces, such as their call to “Abolish 
Directed Studies,” on account of its serving as “a vehi­
cle committing violent acts of intellectual privileging 
against marginalized groups at Yale.” I spoke with 
staff writer Anaiis Rios-Kasoga ’25 (she/her) about her 
experience writing for DOWN. 

“DOWN is the only on-campus publication that 
only publishes things written by people of color and 
for people of color, so that is really cool,” says Rios-
Kasoga. “Our main goal is just to highlight commu­
nity and culture voices that don’t find an outlet at 
most other publications at Yale.”

Rios-Kasoga was drawn to DOWN for its grass­
roots nature—writing for the magazine didn’t feel like 
working for a distant institutional force, like journal­
ism at Yale often has a tendency to feel. “[We] don’t 
have a classic editorial structure that most print mag­
azines have. We are just a board of directors, there is 
no editor-in-chief—there is on paper, but it doesn’t 
operate like that.” Rios-Kasoga will serve as the arts 
and culture editor for DOWN next fall, and she hopes 
to continue using the platform to communicate her 
experiences as a woman of color, as DOWN contin­
ues to be a space for collectivity and communication 
for students of color navigating Yale’s many tumults.

Zines are collectiveness distilled into its purest 
form. They are objects of communication, self-sus­
taining pieces of art, and personal declarations of one’s 
right to own and express their perspective. As both a 
creator and a consumer, I am moved by their power. 
After speaking with Hasselmo and immersing myself 
in New Haven’s zine culture—past and present—I 
am left certainly with more questions than answers, 
but also with the overwhelming desire to keep creat­
ing. Personal creativity, I am beginning to learn, has 
the power to open dialogues and doors that are long 
overdue to be unbarred.
—Madelyn Dawson is a first-year in Silliman College.


**Title: A DYING BUSINESS**
**Author: Isabella Yang**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

MAY 2022
 11
A DYING 
    BUSINESS
BY ISABELLA YANG
To my father, who has just started 
washing dishes at a Chinese restau­
rant in North Carolina.

I wasn’t expecting the line to be 
so long. Beyond the point of Celia 
Pinzi’s outstretched finger, the line 
snakes backward from the hallway 
into the parking lot. It hugs the 
white wooden fences. Somewhere 
down the block, its end disap­
pears. Police are parked outside the 
building, directing traffic. This, 
Celia explains to me, is one of 
the largest post-lockdown crowds 
she’s hosted as the owner and chief 
funeral director of West Haven 
Funeral Home. It is around five 
p.m., and the wait time for those 
at the end of the line is estimated 
at five hours.

We walk through the back 
door, brushing past the lightly 
chattering, 
sometimes 
weep­
ing, extremely well-dressed, and 
orderly crowd of people that takes 
up half of the hallway. Celia briskly 
strides forward, occasionally stop­
ping to greet familiar faces, or to 
clear empty tissue boxes out of the 
way. She is dressed in all black, her 
medium-length blond hair tossed 
behind her back, and she wears 
a stern, concentrated expression. 
Worry not, it says. Everything here is 
under my control.

We walk on. An ornamental 
jumble covers the walls—there 
are clocks, mirrors, old maps of 
West Haven, pictures of sunsets, 
gold-sprinkled flower paintings, 
sketches of Italian towns, wreaths 
of dried flowers, decorative frag­
ments of old ceilings. When we 
pass some old-fashioned, can­
dle-like standing lamps, Celia 
turns to me.
“Now you’re in the heart of a 
traditional American wake,” she 
says.

When there is no wake, the 
entire funeral home smells of 
WoodWick’s signature Redwood 
reed diffuser; but as we walk into 
the parlor, the aroma of flowers 
permeates the air. Trails of flow­
ers, purple and white and yellow, 
follow the trickling line of people 
to a single point in the center of 
the room.

Against the soft white fabric 
inside the gleaming steel casket, 
the body of a 36-year-old woman 
lies with her hands peaceably 
folded in front of her chest. Under 
the soft glow of overhead incan­
descent lights, her long red hair 
shines like rivulets of water and 
cascades down the sides of her face, 
mingling with the flowers under­
neath. Visitors sob in front of her. 
Some may have touched her hair. 
With the line between me and her, 
I cannot tell. I cannot look at her 
for more than two seconds without 
feeling a need to avert my gaze––
because I didn’t know her, because 
Celia has turned her body into 
something too delicate and private 
to be beheld by an outsider. In fact, 
Celia has turned death itself into 
to be beheld by an outsider.

 ...
The only dead body I have seen 
up to this point in my life was that 
of my paternal grandfather, who 
was cremated in rural China when 
At the West Haven Funeral Home, 
Celia Pinzi keeps her macabre 
business alive in an increasingly 
challenging industry.
PHOTOS COURTESY OF WEST HAVEN FUNERAL HOME


 12
I was 12. I caught no more than a 
glimpse of him, stored in a wooden 
coffin filled with ice to keep his 
body from decaying in the summer 
heat. He hadn’t been embalmed; 
there were few embalmers in 
China, since so many people pre­
ferred cremation. His body looked 
blackened. Blackened by the ice, 
or old age, or both. There was lit­
tle glamor in the ceremony. Fam­
ily circled the coffin before it was 
taken off to the crematory. There, 
death was presented as a fact, a 
blackened fact.

At Celia’s place, things are differ­
ent. In the “prep room”—a metal­
lic, clinical space where bodies are 
received, washed, embalmed, and 
adorned—Celia shows me the box 
of cosmetics she and her fellow 
embalmer, Mike Dion, used on the 
deceased woman with the red hair. 
With tiny tweezers, she picks up a 
pair of artificial eyelashes from the 
stainless-steel table. “Would you 
believe that? People now have those 
magnetic eyelashes that they attach 
to the magnetic eyeliner they put 
on,” Celia says, pinching her eye­
lids and imitating the movement of 
applying eyeliner. “She used to use 
these all the time, so we just had 
to do the same.” Before the wake, 
she tells me, Mike had to make an 
extra run to grab a fresh pair from 
CVS.

One of Celia’s many jobs is to 
make death, however sudden and 
repellant, look presentable, even 
dignified. The woman with the 
red hair died of an overdose at a 
friend’s house. Her body, prior to 
entering the funeral home, under­
went an autopsy that carved a wide 
triangle in her chest and sliced 
open her head. Celia has made sure 
the body looks intact. Lacerations 
closed, eyes closed, mouth closed, 
hair done, nails done, magnetic 
eyelashes done. Though only the 
upper half of the casket was open 
for the wake, she put high heels on 
the woman’s feet. Underwear, too, 
is a must for every body that passes 
through her hands. A body must 
always be in good order, clean 
and preferably beautiful, but not 
only for the purpose of presenta­
tion. What people cannot see is as 
important to Celia as what people 
can see.

Dead bodies are among some of 
Celia’s most familiar things. She 
has been in the funeral industry 
for over forty years, and has han­
dled thousands of cadavers. But the 
embalming practice, Celia admits, 
can still feel foreign. “It's not just 
bathing, or grooming them, but 
actually making an incision into 
someone. Removing their bodily 
fluids and replacing them with 
embalming fluid,” she says to me. 
“How would you ever have expo­
sure to that?”

Celia was exposed to the death 
business by her father, Nello J. 
Pinzi. Nello, an Italian man who 
moved to Connecticut from Wis­
consin in the nineteen-sixties and 
founded West Haven Funeral 
Home, still has his picture hung at 
the entrance of the building. He 
was by Celia’s side as she ran down 
the same hallways we had walked 
through, after countless child­
hood days out ice skating on West 
Haven Green. He was by Celia’s 
side as she became an embalmer 
and a funeral director.

If Celia and I were to compare 
fathers, I think both of us would 
agree that they have little in com­
mon. Hers was born in Italy, came 
to America at a young age, and 
quickly found his place. Mine was 
born in China, came to America 
at a relatively old age, and is still 
struggling to find his place. Hers 
served customers from one town. 
Mine served customers from all 
around the world. Hers spent a 
lot of time with her. Mine spent 
next to no time with me. Hers was 
the person she modeled her career 
after. Mine is the person I deliber­
ately chose not to model my career 
after. But there is one thing they 
have in common: both ran busi­
nesses. Yet her father’s business is 
flourishing in her hands, while my 
father’s business collapsed into a 
debt-stricken shutdown after three 
agonizing years of trade wars, 
mysteriously-vanishing 
clients, 
and a pandemic.

Unlike Nello J. Pinzi, my father 
always made a strenuous effort to 
separate his daughter and his busi­
ness. Perhaps it was out of a mas­
culine unwillingness to ask his 
daughter for help. Or, more likely, 
perhaps he felt I could do better 
than his business. He was one of 
those “Made in China” tag makers, 
the first college student from his 
small rural town who went back 
to establish a small factory there, 
making large quantities of cheap 
clothes to be sold in North Amer­
ica. Though his factory made lots 
of clothes, many of them for chil­
dren, he almost never brought any 
home for me. His clothes, accord­
ing to my mom, were too ugly for 
me. I grew up wearing Korean 
brands my mom had handpicked 
from city-center shopping malls, 
while the extra samples printed in 
the factory were thrown onto our 
car’s backseat to be used as napping 
blankets.

In the fall of 2018, in the midst 
of Trump’s trade war with China, 
my father visited me in New

One of Celia’s many jobs 
is to make death, howev­
er sudden and repellant, 
look presentable, even 
dignified.



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Anonymous**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
MAY 2022
 13
Haven and gave me a yellow 
leather jacket. It was a sample his 
factory had printed. His clothes 
had improved enough to suit my 
style, he insisted. On the same 
visit, he asked me if I could make 
a few calls to some potential clients 
in New York, since my English 
was better than his. Swamped with 
work and annoyed he couldn’t 
promptly get his tax return forms 
for my last-minute financial aid 
application, I put off making the 
calls. When I finally got around 
to it half-a-month later, no one 
expressed any interest. The few 
who didn’t hang up at the words 
“Chinese factory” asked about 
prices and sample types—questions 
I could not answer—so they hung 
up as well. Ashamed and infuri­
ated by my defeat, I sent my father 
a long text blaming him for not 
having provided outlines for my 
call and lists of his company’s past 
accomplishments. 
“Understood,” 
he responded. It wasn’t until a few 
hours later that I realized I had said 
“textiles” instead of “clothing” in 
most of the calls. I never wore the 
yellow leather jacket.


Now, my father’s business is 
officially 
dead. 
When 
cutting 
costs to the bone still did not yield 
any profit, and instead drove him 
deeper into debt, he closed the 
factory. He managed to pay all 
the workers, but only by borrow­
ing from loan sharks behind our 
family’s back. Earlier this year, 
my mother had to personally drag 
him to the sharks and pay off his 
nonbank debts using all of her sav­
ings. Bank debts remain unpaid. 
I wouldn’t say I’m responsible for 
his business’s demise. But I feel 
guilty. If I had learned how every­
thing works, would I have prevented 
this? Could I have saved his dying 
business?


Celia learned how everything 
worked, and Celia did save a dying 
business. Her mother was a teacher, 
just like my mother. Her mother 
had discouraged her from pursuing 
the “blue collar life” of her father, 
much in the way my mother dis­
couraged me from wearing those 
made-in-China factory clothes. 
Celia went to Georgetown. She 
decided to go back home and 
apprentice with her father after 
graduation. Recounting her moth­
er’s attitude toward her choice, 
she chuckles. “Given how we 
were brought up and what edu­
cation meant in our family… Yes, 
it’s respectable and all that. But it 
was not exactly, you know, the 
Georgetown…” Her voice trails 
off. I knew what she meant. The 
Georgetown graduate expectation. 
Or, perhaps more accurately, her 
mother's expectation.


But Celia chose her father’s path 
anyway. She acknowledged that it 
could be because she grew up very 
close to her father, but there was 
also a feeling of obligation, like she 
had to take over her father’s busi­
ness despite her mother’s reluc­
tance. At the time, though, neither 
she nor Nello was sure if she could 
do it. Celia repeatedly referred to 
the year she spent apprenticing 
with her father handling cadavers 
as a trial; she and Nello agreed that 
if she passed the trial, she would 
stay. “He was like boot camp. Very, 
very, very difficult,” she said. “And 
I thought if I can survive that, then 
I'm really okay.”


She survived. Nello lived for 
another twenty years, with his 
daughter running his business by 
his side, before his death in 2009. 
His funeral, including the embalm­
ing, was performed by his staff, and 
for once, Celia assumed the role 
of griever instead of director. To 
her, funeral directors are buffers 
between the family and death—
composed, professional figures that 
distraught families can rely on to 
shield them. Celia had acted as that 
buffer many times before, but for 
her father’s funeral, she let her staff 
be her Celia. She then took over 
the business completely, and peo­
ple started calling her “the boss.”


West Haven Funeral Home has 
long been the busiest funeral home 
in West Haven—by a mile. Keep­
ing it in the family keeps it alive—
the home has been handed down 
through generations, both for the 
family who owns it and for the 
families who use it. At the age of 
62, Celia has been recognized as 
“Celia Pinzi, L.F.D., past President 
of the Connecticut Funeral Direc­
tors Association and public mem­
ber of the Medical Legal Commis­
sion for the State of Connecticut.” 
In a trim blazer and sparkling 
jewelry, she strides down the hall­
way full of memorabilia from her 
father’s time, converses confidently 
and tilts her head intently when­
ever she inquires about a funeral 
detail, as if that detail were the 
most important thing in the world. 
The young apprentice freshly 
graduated from Georgetown has 
become a woman with wrinkles 
on her hands and neck beneath the 
jewelry, one whose vast experi­
ence has taught the subtle tricks of 
the death business.


One trick is to compartmental­
ize. Almost everyone at the funeral 
home agrees that compartmen­
talization is a necessity for their 
work. At home, the staff meticu­
lously avoid using the same brands 
of shampoo and shaving creams 
they use in the prep room; even 
the little things can bring death 
into the house. They also try to 
avoid emotional attachment to 
the cases they work on. Celia is 
extremely good at compartmental­
izing. When she works on a body, 
she forces herself to not think 
about the stories behind their 
death. “The things that disturb 
the average person disturb me,” 
she says. Suicides are always 
tough—so 
are 
overdoses. 
Working on children is the 
hardest for Celia, especially 
after she had her own kids 
and truly understood what 
the loss of a child can mean 
for a family. But when­
ever she gets emotional, 
she reminds herself that 
she is not there to walk in 
the family’s shoes. She is 
there to hold her breath 
in a room reeking of formaldehyde 
and to keep everyone calm.


Less appealing than the smell of 
formaldehyde, to Celia, is the cap­
italism of the funeral industry. “It’s 
all marketing and consumerism,” 
Celia tells me as we walk past the 
samples in her casket room: Cham­
pagne Rose, $4995; Belvedere, $1995; 
Clairmont, $3295; Valencia, $2695. 
Polished stainless steel caskets, gold 
and green and blue and purple, line 
up on wall shelves like jewelry on 
display. A corner with a sign read­
ing “CASKET EXPRESSIONS” 
contains customizable decorations, 
like little freezer magnets or laptop 
stickers, to be hooked on the edges 
or embroidered on the insides of 
caskets: an American eagle, golden 
angels, roses, jumping fish, army 
and navy prints, motorcycle prints. 
With thousand-dollar personal­
ized caskets, custom-made DVD 
tapes, and obituaries posted in 
the local newspapers, the price of 
a funeral can easily get into five 
digits, sometimes even reaching as 
high as $20,000—and that doesn’t 
include the gravestone, the recep­
tion, or the cemetery plot. The 
large wake I saw was just a part of 
one such funeral. For some, there is 
an allure in the dignified grandeur 
of an expensive funeral. Even one 
of the staff members at the funeral 
home, a young man around his 
thirties named Jim, tells me he quit 
a finance job in New York to work 
in the funerary industry with Celia 
because of the “formality, deco­
rum, and the black cars.”


The glamor of elaborate wakes 
and ceremonious burials endures, 
but behind the ornamental flow­
ers and delicately made-up bodies, 
things are changing in the death 
business, and Celia senses it. On 
the other side of the wall from 
thousand-dollar caskets sit the dif­
ferent, but equally various species 
of urns: Anoka Blue, $295; Ava­
lon Bronze, $495; Imperial Stone, 
$395; Tree of Life, $495. Celia 
points out a pair of smaller, pock­
et-sized urns called “footprints,” 
telling me they can be portable 
keepsakes and were used recently 
in 
another 
local 
middle-aged 
woman’s funeral. They are made of 
fine blue-and-white gradient por­
celain, polished to perfection, and 
cost no more than $295. Cre­
mations can cost a tenth of a 
full-scale funeral, or even less 
at places where procedures 
are not so personalized. To 
a community like West 
Haven, where many live 
paycheck-to-paycheck, 
the choice is obvious.


I’m no stranger to 
cremations. In China, 
where I grew up, a 
piece 
of 
legislation 
called “Regulations on Funeral 
and Interment Control” released 
in 1997 restricted all burials in cit­
ies and encouraged cremations in 
rural areas to preserve farmland. 
Burials quickly became things of 
the past, a relic now largely expe­
rienced through funeral objects in 
museums, excavated from ancient 
tombs. Cremations, on the other 
hand, exhibit a mechanical effi­
ciency that many prefer to the 
impractical pomp and ceremony of 
an old-fashioned burial. Beijing’s 
Babaoshan Crematorium processes 
approximately 25,000 bodies each 
year; bodies packed in cardboard 
boxes enter automated cremation 
machines on belts, burn in fur­
naces, and turn into ashes packed 
in little bags with QR codes to help 
families identify their loved ones. 
In modern Chinese crematories, 
operations are clean, quick, and 
minimalist. The funeral services, 
colloquially called yitiaolong (one 
full dragon), can take care of all the 
steps between receiving the body 
and delivering the ashes. A sim­
ilar service exists at Celia’s place 
now. In the middle of one of my 
conversations with Mike and Jim, 
Jim pauses to pick up a call from 
a potential client. The woman, 
whose grandmother had just passed 
away at a nursing home, wants 
West Haven Funeral Home to pick 
up the body, perform the crema­
tion, and deliver her the ashes. She 
doesn’t need to see the body. After 
the call ends, Jim, a strong propo­
nent of formal burials, sighs and 
says, “It’s another one of those.”


The “ones of those” have been 
taking over. The National Funeral 
Directors 
Association’s 
web­
site currently has a whole section 
called “Cremation on the Rise.” 
According to data from NFDA, 
cremations 
have 
outnumbered 
burials since 2014. Almost 60 per­
cent of bodies in the United States 
are now cremated, while a little 
under 40 percent are buried. It is 
estimated that in twenty years, 80 
percent of bodies will be cremated. 
The Vatican has even allowed 
practicing Catholics to be cre­
mated, despite their common belief 
in the resurrection of the physical 
body after death. COVID-19, too, 
is accelerating the change: crema­
tion is faster than burial—a great 
advantage during the pandemic 
when funeral homes are strained 
by an unusually large number of 
bodies—and the World Health 
Organization has recommended 
cremation instead of embalming 
to prevent the spread of the virus. 
Celia has referred to an open-cas­
ket funeral with an embalmed and 
dressed-up body as a “traditional 
American experience.” This tradi­
tion, it seems, is dying.


Oak Grove Crematory, the offi­
cial cremation branch of Celia’s 
business, now receives as much 
attention as the funeral home. 
In one corner of the casket room 
are pamphlets about “The Living 
Urn,” a new, $129 service that 
allows people to grow plants out of 
the ashes of their loved ones. Celia 
hasn’t gone as far as some funeral 
homes in incorporating services 
that turn ashes into cups, rings, 
fireworks, glass art, memorial tat­
toos, or vinyl records, but she is 
already adjusting to the new trends 
to keep her business alive.


There is, however, only so much 
one can adjust and only so much 
one can control. Celia has her 
uncontrollables: kids who do not 
want to take over the family busi­
ness. Unlike my father, who kept 
me away from his business, Celia 
would very much love for her two 
sons to take over her place. But 
reality speaks differently. Both 
of her sons live in New York 
now. One graduated from Yale 
and works for American Express, 
the other works for the Miche­
lin-star-winning 
Momofuku 
Restaurant Group. Neither has 
any intention of returning to West 
Haven. They believe they could do 
better than her business.


We are in Celia’s car driving 
back to campus when I ask her 
what will become of West Haven 
Funeral Home. She stays silent 
for a good moment, and I see her 
tighten her grip on the steering 
wheel.
“Big corporations will buy it,” 
she finally says. She would retire 
completely and receive good com­
pensation. But is that what she 
really wants?


When Nello started the business, 
he named it “West Haven Funeral 
Home” so it carried the name of 
the town instead of his own Ital­
ian name. Back then, West Haven 
was a town divided between Ital­
ians and Irishmen; funeral homes 
served either one group or the 
other, and a place named “Pinzi 
Funeral Home” would only attract 
Italians. But Nello wanted his 
place to belong to everyone in 
West Haven. Through the name, 
he left Celia with a special legacy. 
She feels the weight of the name 
every time she sees a crowd gather 
in her hallway and spill into the 
parking lot, or when she and Mike 
restore a mutilated body’s dignity 
and open the casket for visitors 
to weep at the ephemeral beauty 
of their loved one, resting among 
flowers, which will soon become


**The Death of a Business**
**Author: Isabella Yang**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
their last memory of the deceased. 

But West Haven Funeral Home, 
despite its name, is fundamentally 
a family business. When Celia 
cannot take care of it anymore, her 
father’s business will be, despite all 
her efforts keeping it alive, as dead 
as my own father’s.

Then comes the ultimate ago­
nizing question: why do we try? 
Why do we try so hard to keep 
something alive, knowing that 
it will eventually die? If death is 
inevitable, how should one go? 
When Celia prepares a body for 
an open-casket wake, she does it 
so that the family remembers only 
the beautiful ending, not the ugly 
thing leading up to death—be it 
traffic accident or overdose, an act 
of violence or a long, painful, dis­
ease. But Celia has no one to turn 
to when her business dies, some­
one like her to make everything 
neat and clean and hide away the 
ugliness behind flowers and cos­
metics. Instead, there are two big 
funeral 
corporations, 
Carriage 
Funeral and Service Corporation 
International, which have been 
conducting “cluster business” for 
a while—joined businesses with 
shared staff and shared equipment 
in a certain region. Both trade on 
the stock exchange. “They go into 
an area and saturate it,” Celia tells 
me. And they are saturating Con­
necticut. One has already acquired 
a family-owned funeral home in 
West Haven, to pair with another 
in Milford. Celia knows the end­
ing. She tries not to think about it. 
She is good at compartmentaliz­
ing, after all.

Nine years ago, Celia worked on 
a series of funerals for the children 
killed in the Sandy Hook Elemen­
tary School shooting. She heard 
the news right after her office’s 
in-house Christmas party and 
immediately decided to drive up 
to Newtown where the school is 
located to visit Daniel Honan, the 
only funeral director in town. For 
some reason she felt that she had to 
be there, the same way she felt that 
she had to take over her father’s 
business. When Honan saw her, 
he recognized her as the late Nello 
J. Pinzi’s daughter, and asked her 
if she needed any help. “I came to 
help you,” Celia responded.

She was the first to help. Others 
followed. Soon, a circle of funeral 
directors nearby set up a tempo­
rary command station at Honan’s 
funeral home, and they divided 
the work. Celia took the bodies of 
three children back to West Haven 
Funeral Home and embalmed 
them before bringing them back 
to Newtown. “They needed so 
much reconstruction for the fam­
ilies to view them,” she said. “I was 
exceedingly aware that these were 
babies, that these were little kids. 
And why is it different from any 
child?”

“It was twenty of them. That’s 
what’s surreal.”

At the command station, there 
were always at least two people 
working together at a time, and 
people took turns when they felt 
that they couldn’t continue the 
work anymore. Every once in a 
while, Celia held hands with the 
other funeral directors, encourag­
ing each other that they still had 
everything under control. Fam­
ilies came; state troopers came; 
the media came; President Obama 
came. Celia did not know about 
Obama’s attendance because she 
deliberately avoided the news. A 
few reporters attempted to inter­
view Celia, asking her if she had 
any comments. “And sometimes I 
would say, I just don’t, I’m—I’m 
overwhelmed. And I’m speech­
less. I don’t know what to say,” she 
remembered. Finally, all the bod­
ies were restored, dressed, finger­
printed so jewelry could be made 
with prints, set up for viewing, 
sent to church services and even­
tually to cemeteries or crematories. 
The work was done.

Celia told me about her work 
with the children from Sandy 
Hook nine years to the day after 
the shooting happened. It had been 
almost a decade, yet what happened 
had never left her. I asked her what 
made her carry on, both with her 
work there and with her work 
after that. Celia acknowledged 
that it was partially the humanity 
and empathy she saw among the 
funeral directors and helpers, and 
the overflows of anonymous let­
ters, flowers, and gifts sent to every 
service. But, being Celia, she also 
felt a duty to carry on. “Again, my 
compartmentalization,” she said. 
“This is what I need to do.”

On my last visit to the West 
Haven 
Funeral 
Home, 
Celia 
was supervising two temporary 
employees as they loaded a van 
with bodies to be cremated. I stood 
in the hallway while the men hur­
ried around, carrying at least half-
a-dozen caskets to the van. One of 
them, wearing a faded baseball cap 
and smelling of tobacco, asked me 
to step aside so he could remove 
another body from the prep room. 
I stepped into the slightly hazy 
afternoon sun. The van was right 
in front of me. It was filled with 
caskets, mostly simple, resembling 
cardboard boxes. It was hard to 
imagine that each cardboard box 
contained a person who had once 
walked the surface of this planet. 
In this dying business, there is a lot 
of burning to be done.


—Isabella Yang is a senior in 
Saybrook College.


**Finding Family in New Haven**
**Author:  Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 17**

April 3, 2022
My stomach hurts when I step 
into Pad Thai for a late lunch.

The visit is at my dad’s recom­
mendation, even though he’s only 
been to New Haven twice and to 
Pad Thai never. If this were any 
other Thai restaurant, I would’ve 
shrugged him off. What does 
he know about the New Haven 
restaurant scene anyway? Not 
much. But in this case, my dad 
does know the owner’s brother, 
who happens to be his bowling 
buddy back home in Kansas. Like 
me, the owners are Lao. And since 
coming to New Haven for school 
about eight months ago, I’ve yet 
to meet another Lao person. 

Though Lao-owned, Pad Thai’s 
menu is filled mostly with Thai 
dishes: chicken satay, a rainbow 
of curries, and som tam, a spicy 
papaya salad known to Laotians as 
tam mak hoong. Much of Thai­
land’s northeast Isan region is eth­
nically Lao, so Lao and Isan food 
are incredibly similar. But it’s 
actually quite common for busi­
nesses to brand themselves as Thai 
restaurants instead of Lao restau­
rants, even if they don't serve 
exclusively Thai cuisine. This 
makes their businesses more mar­
ketable to an American audience. 
Call it a visible invisibility.

I order the drunken noodles, 
which arrive in a golden-brown 
nest garnished with chili flakes, 
yellow bell peppers, and a sprig 
of holy basil. Wafts of steam tell 
me it’s too hot to start eating, 
but I choose to burn my mouth 
anyway. The food tastes like my 
dad’s—soft rice noodles balanced 
between the salt of the soy sauce 
and sweet suggestions of brown 
sugar. 

I could scream and cry about 
how good it is, about how it 
sends me back to my kitchen table 
at home in Kansas. But I eat in 
silence. It’s three o’clock, there is 
only one other group of patrons 
here, and I’m mentally preparing 
to introduce myself to the owner. 
The restaurant’s interior looks 
like my grandmother’s house—
dim and warm, the walls decorated 
with a yellowed map of Thailand 
alongside black-and-white por­
traits of family members that exude 
nostalgia. When I’m done eating, I 
ask for the owner, explaining that 
my parents are friends with her 
brother in Kansas and that I’d like 
to meet her. In a dirty apron and 
worn non-slip clogs, she emerges 
from the kitchen with slow, heavy 
steps. Still, her exhausted expres­
sion melts into a welcoming grin. 
It turns out that my dad had called 
earlier that weekend. She was 
expecting me. 

I’m always nervous when it 
comes to meeting new Lao peo­
ple, especially elders. Seeking 
Laotians outside of my family feels 
like an unearthing, like calling out 
to someone you haven’t seen in so 
long that you’ve become strangers. 
COLLAGE BY KYLIE VOLAVONGSA



**A Secret History**
**Page number(s): 18**

March 6, 2020
Lao people are traditionally 
animists. Many of us believe that 
everything has a spirit, that every 
spirit has a home. Our bodies are 
home to not just one spirit, but 
to a collective of thirty-two that 
drift away from us as we progress 
through our lives. Every so often, 
they must be called back and retied 
to us, preserving our health, good 
luck, and balance. Kwan, we call 
them. Kwan, we reach out for but 
cannot see. 

Nay Saysourinho’s essay, “Your 
Body has Thirty-Two Kwan,” 
reminds me of all the things that 
make me, and I’ve been thinking a 
lot about her lately. She was a pan­
elist at a literary conference in San 
Antonio, which I attended during 
a trip with my high school English 
program. Most other panels had 
been canceled due to the emerg­
ing threat of the coronavirus, but 
it so happened that the one with 
Saysourinho was one of the few 
still taking place that day. It was 
also, by chance, the only panel 
I was interested in, a discussion 
about Asian exoticism in contem­
porary fiction. 

I remember almost falling asleep 
at the panel, drowsy from a late 
afternoon slump. But towards the 
end, the panelists began to open 
up more about themselves as Asian 
women in writing. When it was 
Saysourinho’s turn, she mentioned 
that she was raised by refugees. I 
sat up, my new sense of alertness 
motivated by my similar upbring­
ing. Curious, I looked back at the 
program and found her last name, 
distinctly Lao with its four flow­
ing syllables. My heart began to 
race. Suddenly, I didn’t want to 
miss a word she said. 

Looking back, I like to think 
that electric feeling, so unexpected 
and ineffable, was our kwan being 
called to each other. Growing up 
in Kansas, I rarely saw Lao peo­
ple outside of my own family. 
Surrounded instead by whiteness 
and its elimination of otherness, I 
wonder if I was made to drift from 
my kwan rather than the other 
way around, the way it naturally 
happens. I like to think that Say­
sourinho, who grew up in Can­
ada, understands me for this. 
Of the kwan Saysourinho lost in 
her own youth, she admits in her 
essay, “There are souls I no longer 
understand.”

A secret history
Lao people have a traumatic his­
tory of fragmentation. This his­
tory was never made clear to me 
until after high school, the result 
of my family’s unspeakable mem­
ories and a lack of information 
everywhere I tried to look. Even 
when my history teachers cov­
ered the Vietnam War, not once 
did they mention what was hap­
pening across the border in Laos. 
Growing up, I knew that there 
had been a war—my family called 
it “The War”—but I didn’t know 
much more than that. Most of this 
violence, muted and long-lasting, 
stems from the seldom-mentioned 
and often redacted history of the 
Secret War, an unauthorized mil­
itary operation carried out by the 
CIA on Laotian soil. 

The most destructive phase of 
the Secret War took place from 
1964 to 1973. Over the course of 
580,000 total bombing missions, 
the United States dropped more 
than two million tons of cluster 
bombs over Laos. To this day, 
only about one percent of the 
eighty million undetonated left­
overs have been removed. 

The bombings were an effort 
to thwart the North Vietnamese 
Army along the Ho Chi Minh trail 
and combat the communist forces 
of the Pathet Lao. Direct foreign 
intervention in Laos had been 
restricted by the 1962 Geneva 
Agreement. Nonetheless, to bol­
ster U.S. forces within Laos, Amer­
ican military personnel enlisted as 
“volunteers” of the Royal Lao Air 
Force to train a small group of 
Laotians and a larger group of the 
ethnically Hmong people living 
in the Laotian highlands. Once 
the U.S. withdrew after the Fall 
of Saigon, the Pathet Lao would 
go on to overthrow the royal gov­
ernment, persecuting the U.S.-
backed allies that were left behind. 
Waves of fleeing Laotians reset­
tled in America, scattered further 
by a far-flung network of sponsor 
families and Catholic volunteer 
agencies. As suggested by former 
President Gerald Ford’s Advi­
sory Committee on Refugees, 
these resettlement structures were 
intended to mitigate the economic 
strain on towns receiving these 
refugees. Should a concentrated 
ethnic enclave form, much of 



**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: Kylie Volavongsa**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
those towns’ funds would have to 
go towards financial assistance for 
individual families, not to mention 
support programs like ESL classes 
at community colleges. Govern­
ment aid aside, many of the towns’ 
locals were fearful of a job market 
saturated by new arrivals, raising 
further issues of xenophobia and 
racism. 

This is the history our diaspora 
carries-–a history we negotiate as 
we create spaces like Pad Thai, 
spaces where we can safely exist 
together. 

April 3, 2022
Ba Mai gestures to the man at 
the host stand—her husband—who 
smiles and waves. “This is Luong.” 
Older uncle. I smile back. 
“Your name is Candy, right?” 
My name is Kylie. I have a dis­
tant cousin back home who hap­
pens to be named Candy. For 
whatever reason, I assume she 
knows Candy, and because I only 
understand about ten percent of 
what Ba Mai is saying, my next 
assumption is that she must be 
asking if I know Candy. 
“Dawy,” I answer. Yes. I still 
haven’t cleared up my mistake 
with her. 

Ba Mai goes on. “You want to 
meet more kon Lao, right? Your 
daddy told me over the phone.” 
She pauses for a minute to 
think. “There are a lot of Lao peo­
ple [in Connecticut], especially in 
Bridgeport and by the Walmart. 
[There’s also] a temple we all go 
to in Morris. And if you want, I 
can take you there to meet every­
one…” 

It’s an enthusiastic outpour, 
delivered in the musical, up-and-
down cadence of our tonal lan­
guage. But much of Ba Mai’s 
other wisdom slips past me, and I 
find myself focusing mostly on the 
words I can recognize. I take what 
I can from the conversation any­
way: a paper bag of hot sticky rice, 
skewers of ping mu, and that feel­
ing of wholeness from the famil­
iarity of spoken Lao. That feeling 
of reconnecting with one of my 
kwan. 
“Kawp jai,” I say with my hand 
on the door. Thank you. 

April, of any given year
Pi Mai is always celebrated for 
three days in the middle of April. 
It marks the beginning of mon­
soon season, which is often the 
hottest time of the year. It is also 
the time of year when the Lao 
diaspora is most culturally visible, 
when we come together on the 
grounds of Theravada Buddhist 
temples around the world. 

In my hometown of Kansas 
City, Pi Mai looks like this: the 
open field by the temple where 
lines of tents sell sinh skirts of 
bright blues, purples, and greens; 
cheap bubble wands and cans of 
silly string for the kids; steam­
ing bowls of pho that lace the air 
with anise and cardamom. There’s 
a main tent where the uncles’ 
bands play mor lum on electric 
guitars and keyboards that appro­
priate cheesy nineties synth with 
a rhythmic Lao flair. The aunts, 
meanwhile, sway and arch their 
fingers in a traditional fawn dance, 
floating their hands along like 
flowers on the dance floor. 

Pi Mai is a cultural beacon, a 
welcome-home gathering for the 
local Lao community as well as a 
few curious outsiders from nearby 
towns. Tucked in the quiet of 
its own little corner is the tem­
ple itself, where monks in saffron 
robes perform su kwan, the long-
awaited ceremony that calls all 
thirty-two of our spirits back to 
our bodies. Finally, those spirits 
are bound to us when a monk ties 
to our wrists a bracelet of delicate 
white thread. 

April 4, 2022
I’m in my room, talking to 
Luong Janh over the phone during 
his half-hour break at work. He 
is Ba Mai’s older brother and, 
according to my dad’s text from 
the day before, he is a community 
leader who can give me a broader 
sense of the Lao people living 
here. I have never seen his face.
Our call is mediated by my dad 
back home, splitting and mending 
our conversation from the North­
east and the Midwest. In real time I 
watch my transcription app incor­
rectly record Luong Janh’s spoken 
Lao as “Caitlyn Jenner longtime 
mean young lady,” “how to play 
an accordion with gun,” and then, 
“I’m a Libra. I’m a Libra. I’m a 
Libra. I’m a Libra.”
“Okay Kylie,” my dad says, then 
Luong Janh through my dad: “the 
Lao people are the people who 
want to reach out and help oth­
ers. It’s not just about our com­
munity—we want to reach out to 
everybody. We want to share. We 
want people to see our weddings 
and to visit for Pi Mai.” 

There are over fifty Lao fam­
ilies living in the New Haven 
area, according to Luong Janh. 
When he resettled in one of the 
first waves of Lao refugees, there 
were only about thirteen. And 
where they have contended with 
fragmentation, they also move 
continuously in the direction of 
wholeness. 
“Every 
time 
more 
people 
arrived, we would try to get in 
touch. We’d share our things with 
each other so we could all get by 
with what we had.” 


As my dad translates, I wonder 
if he is thinking the same about 
himself.

April 12, 2022
Luong Janh, Ba Mai, and the 
rest of the Lao community are 
not the only ones currently reach­
ing for wholeness in New Haven. 
Within the city, there is a grow­
ing momentum towards connec­
tion by broader groups of Asian 
Americans. On Zoom, I spoke to 
Jennifer Heikkila Diaz, Christine 
Kim, and Caroline Tanbee Smith, 
three leaders of aapiNHV (Asian 
American & Pacific Islander New 
Haven). The group was established 
about a year ago, spurred by wide­
spread community grief in the 
aftermath of the 2021 Atlanta spa 
shootings, along with the spike in 
anti-Asian hate crimes that made 
clear the need for AAPI spaces in 
order to see and be seen. 

“This group started as an action 
to overcome the great fear and 
anguish that a lot of us and I per­
sonally felt, especially after the 
shootings,” said Kim. One way 
to overcome these feelings was to 
come together. Like the Lao peo­
ple, to reach out and gather and 
share. Like our kwan, to join a 
body seeking a feeling of peace.

“Part of the way we did that was 
just by really holding space for 
each other’s experiences and sto­
ries,” Smith chimed in. “And that 
was a way of building a foundation 
of respect and acknowledgement 
of the complexity and differences 
that we all experienced moving 
through the world…”

Heikkila Diaz said the group 
finds itself in uncharted territory, 
as it is a non-hierarchical organi­
zation. They aim to grant all mem­
bers the same amount of influence 
in group activities, from youth 
to elders, and from East Asians to 
South and Southeast Asians—who 
have historically seen less repre­
sentation in pan-Asian groups.

I looked at the square on my 
Zoom screen and its four sub­
sections. Me. Jennifer. Christine. 
Caroline. Perhaps, in their own 
ways, they also embody our Lao 
patchwork of thirty-two.

April 14, 2022
I write my ending at the begin­
ning of Pi Mai. 

Tonight, I will catch up with a 
friend at one of the dining halls. 
Tomorrow, I plan to call my par­
ents and grandparents. On Sunday, 
I hope to go to the temple with 
Ba Mai and Luong Janh. Over 
the course of this piece’s creation, 
I’ve been called to a gathering of 
kwan that I did not expect to find. 

This weekend, I will call to mine 
and welcome back a body of thir­
ty-two. I think of everyone I’ve 
met in this process and wonder if I 
can make room for their kwan too, 
joining a body of sixty-four, one 
hundred twenty-eight, and maybe 
even two hundred and fifty-six. 
Maybe even more. 

I will tie us all together—for 
now—with a small white thread. 
—Kylie Volavongsa is first-year 
in Silliman College and an Asso­
ciate Editor of The New Journal.


**Title: ASIDE**
**Author: Abigail Dixon**
**Page number(s): 21**

**Title: EXILE**
**Author: TYLER JAGER**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
For years, city officials knew 
about hazardous levels of lead in 
the homes of resettled refugees, 
yet several families were exposed. 
What went wrong?


**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author:  (Not explicitly stated in the provided text)**
**Page number(s): 24**

 24
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Author’s preface: This article is 
the product of a four-month-long 
investigation into how delays in New 
Haven’s lead poisoning prevention 
practices affected families with young 
children in the city, including many 
refugees. I reviewed over two hun­
dred pages of previously unreleased 
government documents related to four 
New Haven addresses, the bulk of 
which were obtained through three 
Connecticut Freedom of Information 
Act (FOIA) requests. This article 
involved dozens of interviews with 
former and resettled refugees, gov­
ernment officials, medical and legal 
academics, employees of IRIS and 
other nonprofits, and property own­
ers. Some names have been changed, 
and some details omitted, to protect 
the locations and identities of inter­
view subjects. 
Before writing this article, I for­
merly worked at Integrated Refugee 
and Immigrant Services (IRIS), one 
of the organizations in this story, as 
a remote intern in 2020-2021. My 
work consisted of filing Section 8 
applications and UI claims during 
the COVID-19 pandemic. I met the 
Naqibzois separately, through sources 
at Elena’s Light, who connected us 
through a mutual friend.
This article could not have beeen 
completed without Elena’s Light, a 
refugee-led organization dedicated 
to women’s and children’s welfare in 
New Haven, that provided Pashto 
and Dari interpreters under contract 
with The New Journal. 
1.
Left in the Dark 
Earlier this year, on a cold Feb­
ruary day around 2:30 p.m., Sha­
hid Naqibzoi got off the bus from 
Wilbur Cross High School and 
walked toward his home in The 
Hill neighborhood of New Haven, 
still thinking about favorite class, 
biology. A tall, wiry fifteen-year-
old, Shahid knew he wanted to 
become a doctor, or maybe an 
engineer, with the encourage­
ment of his new teachers. When 
he turned the corner to his back­
yard and saw strange men digging 
outside his family’s yellow duplex, 
he assumed they were “from the 
government.” 
In 
Afghanistan, 
when U.S.-funded infrastructure 
began to crumble during his ado­
lescence, he had seen officials in 
similar attire fix the potholes.
There were four of them, 



**Title: The First Exile**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
MAY 2022
 25
bearded men, with black jack­
ets—military 
jackets, 
Shahid 
thought. He watched as they 
shoveled gravel out of the back of 
a white, unmarked van and tossed 
it into the earth, near the duplex’s 
drainage pipe. An assortment of 
children’s toys from the fami­
lies at the duplex—remnants of a 
Cozy Coupe and a pink bicycle, 
half-buried—dotted the back lot, 
which was surrounded by fence. 
Shahid tried not to make eye con­
tact with the men who watched 
him, silently, as he climbed the 
wooden stairs that hugged the 
back of the duplex. He walked 
into his family’s third-floor apart­
ment, where he lived with his par­
ents and five younger siblings. 
By noon the next day, when 
Amila, Shahid’s mom, left the 
house for a doctor’s appointment, 
the men were gone. At the south 
end of the lot, they had left a shad­
owy rectangle of gray gravel, in a 
darker shade than the rest of the 
yard, as if a cloud had floated over 
and stopped at the edge of the 
fence.


When Amila and her husband, 
Navid, first saw the vinyl-sided 
façade of 18 Dewitt Street, they 
thought the property was a step up 
from their first American home. 
The Dewitt Street apartment was 
more affordable––a lean $1,200 
per month––and closer to the 
K-8 school in The Hill that four 
of their six children attended. But 
after signing their lease, a series 
of unpleasant discoveries made 
the property less attractive: mice, 
insects, and raccoons frequently 
scurried across the living room 
floor and into the kids’ bedrooms. 
Outside the room that Shahid 
shared with his brother, a long 
rod of twisted iron swung slightly 
from the top frame of a bay win­
dow. 


Later in March, after living 
there for over a year, the Naqib­
zois learned another fact about 
18 Dewitt Street that had gone 
undisclosed: the property was 
contaminated with toxic levels 
of lead. A city inspection, con­
ducted after a suspected poisoning 
at the property, found the chem­
ical on their windowsills, in the 
dust lying on the stairwell, and, 
in its most concentrated form, in 
the soil surrounding the drainage 
pipe of their house. According 
to the Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA), soil with lead con­
centration at 400 parts per million 
or greater is considered so great a 
public health hazard that the lead 
must be removed immediately, 
and children must vacate the res­
idence. The soil surrounding the 
Naqibzois’ home, where children 
used to play, was over three times 
that number.


What Shahid had witnessed that 
day in February was the final step 
of the removal process, called a lead 
abatement: the legally required 
remediation of lead-based hazards 
in a child’s home. When toxic lead 
is present in the ground, the EPA 
says, the contaminated soil must be 
carefully dug up and hauled away. 
Then, a property owner, usually 
dependent on hired maintenance 
contractors, brings a “clean” soil 
deposit to the premises, making 
them safe for small children to 
inhabit. 


Six months earlier, their land­
lord, Shmuel Aizenberg of Ocean 
Management, was ordered by 
the city’s Health Department to 
perform a lead abatement of 18 
Dewitt. Yet city officials were 
aware of the soil contamination as 
early as November 2020, when an 
inspector received lab results that 
confirmed hazardous lead quanti­
ties in the property—and in 2016, 
a city inspection report had found 
similar levels of contamination. 
Eight years before the Naqibzois 
were made aware of it, the proper­
ty’s history of lead poisoning was 
marked in the public record.


For the Naqibzois, informa­
tion about the lead contamination 
came too late. 18 Dewitt Street 
wasn’t their first time as Ocean 
Management tenants—it wasn’t 
even the first Ocean property 
where they had lived with lead 
contamination. The first house 
in America where the Naqibzois 
lived, on Howard Avenue, was 
another one of the hundreds of 
Ocean-owned low-income prop­
erties in New Haven, operated 
under the names of smaller com­
panies. While living there, at age 
2, Shahid’s younger sister tested 
positive for lead poisoning.


A delineation line can be seen between new and old gravel in the parking area of 
423 Saw Mill Road in West Haven, Connecticut, on Thursday, April 21, 2022. 


--- Page 26 ---

 26
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
The Naqibzois were not alone. 
Over the course of this four-
month investigation, I confirmed 
that at least seven refugee families 
in New Haven, including over a 
dozen children, were exposed to 
toxic levels of lead in their homes 
without their knowledge. Emails, 
lab results, and city inspection 
reports from three FOIA requests 
show that city officials and land­
lords neglected to remove toxic 
lead for months from properties in 
New Haven where refugee fami­
lies with young children were liv­
ing.


Refugee families in the United 
States, who are disproportionately 
affected by lead poisoning, have 
little say over the first places where 
they are told to live, and receive 
few federal protections against 
lead exposure during resettle­
ment. Where toxic lead is found, 
children who left homes once 
for safety must leave new homes 
again: after resettlement, a second 
exile.


2.
The Poison 
Lead, the most common indus­
trial contaminant in America, can 
cause significant negative health 
effects for anyone exposed, but 
particularly for children under 
six. At that age, even low levels of 
exposure can permanently damage 
brain development. At extremely 
high levels, lead poisoning can 
lead to seizures, coma, and death. 
“No amount of lead exposure is 
safe,” Erin Nozetz, a Yale pedi­
atrician and the director of New 
Haven’s Lead Task Force, told me. 
Yet the behavior of New Haven 
landlords form a pattern: they 
often fail to remove lead contam­
ination, or alert families about its 
presence in their homes, within 
the time frame required by law. 
Along with city officials, landlords 
often fail to provide translated 
information about the risks to 
families who don’t speak English, 
many of whom are refugees. (One 
reason frequently cited in city 
documents for inspection delays: 
“language barriers.”) None of the 
families that I contacted, with the 
help of Pashto and Dari interpret­
ers, had been promptly informed 
by their landlord of toxic lead lev­
els in their home. In some cases, 
we were the first to inform fami­
lies of lead contamination in their 
current or former homes.


The 
New 
Haven 
Health 
Department’s policy is to inspect 
a house for lead after a child under 
six has already been poisoned. 
So far this year, inspections have 
discovered lead contamination in 
at least 44 properties with young 
children, according to public 
records. The most common cul­
prit is paint: until 1978, when the 
product was banned for residen­
tial use, lead paint was a staple of 
American real estate. According to 
a report by former health director 
Paul Kowalski, 83 percent of New 
Haven’s housing stock was built 
before 1978. The paint is partic­
ularly hazardous when it chips or 
peels, making it easier for a child 
to ingest.


The Centers for Disease Con­
trol and Prevention (CDC) con­
siders children under six “lead 
poisoned” when their blood lead 
levels (BLLs) are 5 micrograms 
per deciliter or above. A recent, 
internally-circulated report from 
the Connecticut Department of 
Public Health shows a staggering 
statistic: while 1.7 percent of Con­
necticut children under six have 
BLLs at that level or higher, 43.7 
percent of refugee children under 
six do—nearly one in two children 
poisoned.


“Refugees and other newcomer 
persons resettled to the U.S.,” the 
CDC says, are a “population at 
higher risk” of lead exposure. One 
explanation for that higher risk is 
children’s prior exposure before 
coming to the United States. 
In Afghanistan, for instance, a 
greater presence of lead-based 
gasoline could signify a greater 
risk to children. Another, in the 
CDC’s phrasing, is exposure to 
risky “cultural practices, tradi­
tional medicines, and consumer 
products”—or as Camille Brown, 
the director of Yale’s Pediatric 
Refugee Clinic, puts it, “behaviors 
of different cultures.”


It’s true that many products 
made abroad, such as metal jew­
elry, spices, or cosmetics, contain 
lead, often because lead is cheap 
and easy to mold. Yet at best, 
reports  from three Connecticut Freedom 
of Information Act requests show that 
city officials and landlords neglected to 
remove toxic lead for months from 
properties in New Haven where refugee 
families with young children were living.


--- Page 27 ---

 27
these assumptions of exposure 
abroad provide a partial picture: 
prolonged American exposures to 
lead are a regular occurrence for 
refugee children too. During the 
COVID-19 pandemic, at the lead 
treatment center where Nozetz 
works, families took her on a 
“Zoom walk” through their house, 
and she’d point out potential haz­
ards. Common sources included 
peeling paint, windowsills, and 
stairwells covered in lead dust. If 
refugee children are placed in fur­
ther harm’s way, Brown said, U.S. 
resettlement risks “exacerbating” 
prior exposure.  Children’s BLLs 
should start to decrease after a few 
months in lead-free environments; 
high BLLs after three months 
could signify that they are still 
being exposed. One 2017 study 
suggested that newcomers’ “joint 
exposure”—first, 
to 
lead-based 
products in a country of origin, 
and second, to an older home in 
the United States—was a signifi­
cant driver of higher BLLs. In the 
Connecticut Department of Public 
Health report, “paint/lead dust” is 
listed as refugees’ primary source 
of exposure to lead. Contaminated 
soil is second.


One of the most recent fatalities 
of lead poisoning in the United 
States, in 2002, was a refugee 
child. Sunday Abek, a 2-year-
old girl, died of lead poisoning 
in Manchester, New Hampshire, 
after the landlord of the property 
failed to disclose the presence of 
lead paint in their apartments. 
Sunday’s mother settled a lawsuit 
for $700,000 against the property 
manager and building owner; the 
property manager was also sen­
tenced to fifteen months in federal 
prison. Her lawyer said, “had she 
known the price for coming to 
America would be the life of her 
youngest child…she never would 
have come.” 


3.
The First Exile
Amila, a skilled tailor and dress­
maker, met her husband Navid 
Naqibzoi in 2003, in their home­
town of Khost near the Pakistani 
border. He was her next-door 
neighbor, and they married the 
following year. In 2012, Navid 
began to work as a medic on a U.S. 
military base, Forward Operating 
Base Chapman, in Logar Province. 
Everything from simple sutures to 
I.V. drips to EMT calls fell under 
his purview. Navid accompanied 
American soldiers on missions out­
side Chapman, and he was adept at 
making friends. He liked to crack 
the occasional grim joke about the 
American War on the base, which 
endeared him to the others. At 
home, he kept details about Chap­
man to himself. 


Eventually, concerns that the 
Taliban would target Afghans 
working at the base in Khost 
became so extreme that Navid 
warned his family not to venture 
beyond their walled home except 
for emergencies. Each morning, he 
carefully mapped the directions of 
his driving route to Chapman, so 
that he could follow another route 
back home and avoid a tail.


On the advice of a close friend, 
Amila and Navid applied for Spe­
cial Immigrant Visa (SIV) status 
in 2016. For Iraqi and Afghan 
nationals who face persecution as a 
result of working for the U.S. mil­
itary and its affiliates, SIV status is a 
means of protection by relocating: 
applicants who are approved for 
SIV status receive permanent resi­
dency and a green card to move to 
the mainland United States. Suc­
cessful receipt of SIV status, how­
ever, is a notoriously slow, bureau­
cratic process. In 2018, a group of 
Afghan and Iraqi nationals sued 
the U.S. federal government over 
application delays that lasted as 
long as five years, which a federal 
judge later ordered the Trump 
administration to remedy.


After three years of waiting, the 
Naqibzois’ SIV application was 
finally approved. On November 
18, 2019, they boarded a plane, 
for thirty-six hours of flying and 
an eight-hour layover in Dubai. 
Shahid was bored: the novelty of 
his first flight wore off quickly, and 
he wanted to get on the ground. 
In Khost, when he watched the 
World Wrestling Entertainment 
channel, he especially liked Amer­
ican wrestling aficionado Roman 
Reigns, whom other WWE audi­
ences loved to hate. “Even though 
he’s 
the 
World 
Heavyweight 
Champion!” Shahid protested. He 
was anxious to see the country 
Reigns was from, where “they said 
they don’t have war.” 


Upon their arrival in the United 
States, a refugee resettlement case­
worker told the family to move to 
a multi-family unit on Howard 
Avenue, at that point owned by 
an affiliate of Ocean Management. 
Navid searched for a medical job 
in New Haven, but no hospital 
in Connecticut would recognize 
his certificate from Chapman. He 
worked as a delivery driver down­
town, for Uber and DoorDash, 
to make money. He learned the 
addresses of Yale’s residential col­
leges, and grew to appreciate Sil­
liman College residents for their 
reliable late-night Papa John’s 
orders. 


Shahid and his siblings, includ­
ing his younger sister, who goes 
by 'Naz,' underwent a mandated 
“refugee health assessment,” which 
included testing for the children’s 
blood-lead levels, measured in 
micrograms per deciliter. When 
Naz’s results came back from Yale-
New Haven Hospital, a few days 
later: her BLL was nine micro­



**Title: The City**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Cases like Naz’s weren’t supposed to keep happening. In May 2019, a class of over three hundred families, represented by the New Haven Legal Assistance Association, sued the City of New Haven for neglecting lead-prevention protocols. Muhawenimana Sara, who was poisoned in 2018 at age 3, was one of them. Displaced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sara’s family moved into a three-bedroom apartment in the neighborhood of Fair Haven. Her lead tests upon U.S. arrival presented no concern; but one year later, Sara’s BLLs had risen to 10 micrograms per deciliter.

Amy Marx, a New Haven Legal Assistance (NHLAA) staff attorney, attributed Sara’s poisoning to U.S. exposure. The lead paint on Sara’s front porch was chipped and peeling, increasing the risk of ingestion. The city had made one attempt to send an inspector unannounced to Sara’s home, who gave up when nobody was home and “left a business card with a note and materials in English only.” Court documents allege that the inspector “was aware that the family spoke Swahili.” The year before, the city had relaxed the threshold for lead inspections to a child’s BLL test of twenty micrograms per deciliter—four times the CDC standard. City administrators blamed staffing issues.

The City signed a settlement agreement with the suing class in May 2021, creating a thirty-one-step oversight process of legal and regulatory duties to ensure that the city would follow pre-existing Connecticut law. After a poisoning report, inspectors must come to a child’s home within five days, armed with dust wipes and containers for water and soil samples, to send their findings to a laboratory. If lab results yield evidence of “dangerously hazardous” levels of lead, the city must notify every family living in the house, as well as the landlord, within another five days. After that, responsibilities lie with the landlords: they have forty-five days to begin an abatement. “The biggest change here is a determination to make sure that what is in the law actually happens,” Marx said in a press conference following the settlement.

But delays and the lack of language access persisted in Naz’s case.When the city received notice of Naz’s first positive test, in 2019, and again in 2020, inspectors attempted unsuccessfully to reach the Naqibzois to schedule a follow-up lead inspection. In February of 2020, a city inspector sent a letter to the family’s Howard Avenue address, asking why they had not responded to her queries. The letter was sent in English only, with Naz’s first name (her legal name) misspelled.

The family left Howard Avenue later that year, in September. Another city inspector, Joy Waldron-Clouden, located the Naqibzois at 18 Dewitt Street on November 5, 2020. According to a summary of her visit, Waldron-Clouden’s first training as a city inspector was less than three weeks beforehand. At the time, none of the families in the duplex spoke English. 

On November 24, the Connecticut Department of Health emailed lab results from the visit to Waldron-Clouden and the director of the Health Department, Maritza Bond. Residual lead was present at “dangerously hazardous” levels, high enough to trigger abatement, in two locations: in the stairwell, and the soil in the backyard. On the left side of the backyard, lead was found at concentrations of 1560 parts per million, well above the threshold of four hundred parts per million. At that level, the E.P.A. says, backyard soil isn’t fit for a home garden, let alone for a child under six to play in. (On the city’s copy of the lab results received on November 24, that lead amount is highlighted in bright yellow.)


After receiving the lab results, Waldron-Clouden didn’t file an inspection report until January 8, 2021, more than two months after her initial visit. That same day, she sent an order to Wade Beecher, a maintenance employee of Ocean Management, to wipe down dust in the stairwell, but did not mention soil contamination. At the end of the inspection summary form, she filled out the paperwork to conclude the case:
Per section 19a-111-14(a) and 19a-111-2(e) of the Lead Poisoning Prevention and Control Regulations, a lead abatement is required for this property: {  } YES {  } NO

Waldron-Clouden marked a check by “NO,” and wrote her signature. The report was filed eighteen months after the city received Naz’s first positive test for lead poisoning. 

After Beecher, the maintenance manager, claimed to have removed the lead dust in the stairwell, Waldron-Clouden re-inspected the house in June. “I have determined that the order letter to abate lead from this premise, data January 8, 2021, has been met with compliance,” she wrote.  Temporarily, the case was closed. By the time health officials finally sent an order to Beecher to remove lead-contaminated soil in the Naqibzois’ backyard, on August 3, 2021, the city had known about the toxins present for over nine months. 


In the same visit, Waldron-Clouden was required to attain a family signature, assuring the city that the Naqibzois had received an Educational Packet of Lead Poisoning Prevention. Amila signed her name in big, all-caps letters. Waldron-Clouden crossed out Amila’s signature and rewrote Amila’s name in her own lowercase handwriting. 

I met the Naqibzois at 18 Dewitt Street for the first time in March, after Shahid had returned from school one day. Navid opened the door and invited me into the living room, where we sat on burgundy IKEA carpets under a framed plaque of the Shahada. Over tea, we spoke about the lead found in their home. I provided them with a copy of the city’s inspections, although Amila and Navid told me that the family was already looking for a new house to live in. “These little animals,” Navid said, pointing to the mice-infested walls and shaking his head. “We can’t sleep at night!” 

Naz, who is now four, walked into the living room, wearing a dark-green dress with golden trimming. She was playing with a green balloon, and had shoulder-length curls. According to her parents, their daughter struggled with learning words well after turning three, and she speaks far less than other children her age. Sometimes, inexplicable outbursts led to fights with her father—even more so, her parents worried, than a typical four-year-old. Troubled, Amila and Navid returned to Yale New Haven Hospital for more follow-up appointments. “A year ago, we didn’t understand what she’s saying,” Navid said. “Now, she is O.K.” Some doctors attributed Naz’s delayed speech to hearing problems or “oral-motor problems.” Her full range of symptoms, however, also closely resemble those of long-term lead poisoning victims.

I showed Amila the document where the inspector claimed to have acquired the family’s signature, eighteen months prior. She stared at me, uneasy. “That’s my handwriting,” she said, looking at the crossed-out name, “but I don’t know what that says.” Amila and Navid say that the inspector did not come with an interpreter. City documents show no record that one was present. 


**Title: Housing the Evacuees**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

Compared to other housing assistance programs that receive federal funding, housing for resettled refugees is far less regulated—largely because their federal grants are not directly related to housing. The “Lead-Safe Housing Rule,” which applies to Section 8 housing and other programs funded by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), requires, among other things, that landlords offer tenants a ten-day window to conduct lead inspections in their prospective homes before signing a lease. Property owners must also disclose every “record and report” of lead contamination in federal public housing, according to the Housing Rule.

But refugee resettlement is not within HUD’s purview, even if housing is involved. Nonprofit “resettlement agencies,” under contract with the State Department, handle the U.S. refugee admissions program, which includes arranging housing for families when they arrive. Since these agencies’ funding is determined by the number of refugees they resettle, the Trump administration’s cuts to refugee admissions wrought long-lasting damage to their staffing and infrastructure. By August last year, when the Taliban took over Afghanistan, and thousands of SIV applicants and “humanitarian parolees” sought refuge in the United States, the nine “voluntary agencies” that assist refugee resettlement had not fully recovered. 

For New Haven’s resettlement agency, Integrated Refugee and Immigrant Services (IRIS), the greatest hurdle was finding affordable housing for refugees once they arrived, as rent is usually their greatest expense. Chris George, the executive director of IRIS, described the process as “a nightmare.” When George arrived as director, only one or two landlords in New Haven were willing to rent to refugee clients, most of whom possessed no credit history. In 2006, IRIS had taken the unprecedented step of co-signing refugee clients’ leases. “Most resettlement agencies would call us crazy,” George told me. Other agencies won’t risk the liability for paying their clients’ rent, but IRIS wanted to guarantee their housing security. George also said that, after Sara’s poisoning in 2018, the nonprofit decided to conduct lead inspections into any home where refugee clients with young children would be living, before those families arrived.

In practice, however, the pre-arrival inspection policy seems rarely implemented. I confirmed at least four cases of families who were placed in homes by refugee caseworkers, only to discover lead contamination afterward. One SIV holder living in The Hill, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, told me that IRIS claimed to inspect his apartment before sending him there with his wife and three children in 2019. “[IRIS] said it was fine,” he insisted. The property in question was in poor condition: in the first week, he noticed illegal utility tapping and incorrect metering in the basement. The house also had a long history of lead contamination, according to public records—three children were poisoned while living there, in 1999, 2002, and 2017. His youngest daughter became the fourth child poisoned while living on the premises in 2020, after which an abatement was completed. 

“I think nobody would care for such a family, an immigrant family,” he told me. He wanted to move, or file a complaint—but after searching for weeks, he couldn’t find another affordable place to live, or an attorney to represent him. Since he had lived in the States for over a year, and was working, he was no longer eligible for many refugee and rental assistance programs; the U.S. resettlement system considered him “self-sufficient.” “Everything is going well, except for housing, and the landlord. They make it dangerous for my children.” He had a guess as to why his family was mistreated by his landlord, an affiliate of Ocean Management: “[The landlord] knows we are immigrants, so they think we won’t complain.” This year, he began receiving legal aid services.

In another case, a former soldier in the Afghan army, whom I’ll refer to as Amir to protect his identity, arrived in the United States in November 2021, living in his uncle’s house until IRIS found a home that would be suitable for him, his wife, and his daughter, who was eight months old. His caseworker eventually found him a unit in a brick building with dusty windows and stained curtains, a stone’s throw away from the Yale Bowl. 

After their move to the new


**Title: The Second Exile**
**Author:  (Not specified in text)**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
MAY 2022
 31
home in December, Amir’s daugh­
ter tested positive for high blood-
lead levels. Just as in Naz’s case, 
the test triggered a legal duty for 
the city to inspect the property 
within five working days of the 
report. Internal city documents 
show that the Health Department 
did not inspect Amir’s apartment 
until February 9, 2022—almost 
two months after Amir’s daughter 
had tested positive. The reason for 
the delayed inspection, written on 
Health Department documents in 
neat cursive, was, once again, “lan­
guage barriers.”


When 
Health 
Department 
inspectors arrived at the apart­
ment, they found toxic amounts 
of lead paint at seventeen differ­
ent locations, including within 
the family’s kitchen, living room, 
and bedroom. The report ordered 
the landlord to repaint the inte­
rior rooms and the building’s front 
porch, where lead on the doors 
and windows were sixteen times 
greater than the concentration 
deemed “hazardous.” In response, 
the landlord presented Amir with 
a document and asked him to sign 
it. “During time of construction, 
[Amir and his family are] going for 
a few days (3 days or more) to their 
relatives with his family,” the writ­
ten agreement read. “During this 
time the managers will change the 
windows, paint the apartment.” 
Amir agreed, and left for a few 
days in March.


Amir’s landlord made no men­
tion of lead or hazardous health 
conditions 
in 
the 
agreement. 
What’s more, the 2021 settlement 
requires that where lead paint is 
found in New Haven, children 
and their families must be relo­
cated “at the expense of the prop­
erty owner,” and not on their own 
dime, as Amir did. Amir told me 
that he guessed why his landlords 
removed the paint, after hearing 
from his daughter’s pediatrician 
and reading educational mate­
rials sent by the Health Depart­
ment. Had he depended solely on 
his landlord for information, he 
wouldn’t have known that lead 
paint was even present.


Amir and his family weren’t 
the only IRIS clients placed in a 
lead-contaminated property via a 
pre-arranged lease: his caseworker, 
Zaker Sultani, was resettled to 
one himself. In an earlier inter­
view with me, Sultani confirmed 
that before he worked for IRIS, he 
had formerly lived at 18 Dewitt 
Street—the Naqibzois’ past prop­
erty. Our conversation in Febru­
ary, 2022 was the first time he had 
heard about the toxic lead in his 
old backyard. His children, a fif­
teen-month-old and a four-year-
old, regularly played in the soil 
behind the house, sometimes for 
two hours a day. “Ocean Manage­
ment was very callous, very reck­
less,” Sultani told me. “From day 
one, the property was filled with 
mice.” 


I could not confirm whether 
Amir’s or Sultani’s homes were 
tested for lead before they arrived, 
either by their landlord or IRIS. 
But the eventual discovery of lead 
contamination on those properties 
suggests that pre-arrival inspec­
tions did not occur. 


Resettlement agencies like IRIS 
are required, as a condition of their 
federal funding, to ensure that ref­
ugees’ housing is “free of visible 
health and safety hazards and in 
good repair.” Their cooperative 
agreement with the State Depart­
ment states, “no peeling or flak­
ing interior paint” for dwellings 
built before 1978. “IRIS is stuck 
between a rock and a hard place,” 
Amy Marx, the NHLAA attorney, 
said. The organization is responsi­
ble for finding refugees housing, 
but it remains under-resourced, 
and constrained by poor condi­
tions that afflict most affordable 
units in New Haven. 


When I arrived outside Amir’s 
building for the second time, hop­
ing to speak with his property 
owner, a man of middle age in a 
gray pickup truck arrived. He got 
out of his car and stared at me icily. 
I explained to him that I found the 
address and its lead paint inspec­
tion results from New Haven’s 
public records.  


“Why do you all care about 
this?” he said. “They”—gestur­
ing at the building, where Amir’s 
family lived—“had lead in them 
before they arrived. They came 
here from Mandy.” Mandy Man­
agement is another local landlord 
whose properties are frequently 
found with housing code viola­
tions. When I asked whether any 
tenants on the property had been 
informed of their rights while the 
landlord removed lead paint, as 
required by law, he said he did not 
care to answer.


“I shouldn’t be talking to you,” 
he said. “I’ll report you for tres­
passing!” He told me to leave.


One IRIS employee recounted 
the condition of a basement in 
one Mandy Management-owned 
apartment, which was being rented 
by refugee clients. It “would make 
you vomit,” he told me. There was 
“raw sewage, spilling onto a base­
ment floor, attracting maggots, it 
was the result of ridiculously dumb 
plumbing.” Despite the risks of 
renting with Mandy or Ocean, the 
employee said, there are few alter­
natives for refugee clients, given 
the two firms’ dominating shares 
of affordable housing stock in New 
Haven. Multiple IRIS employees 
wished not to speak on the record 
for fear that Mandy and Ocean 
Management would retaliate by 
refusing to rent to future clients.


--- Page 32 ---

 32
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Mandy, alongside Ocean Man­
agement, have been called “inves­
tor-landlords” in local press. “The 
pattern we see,” Marx said, “is that 
these landlords continue to neglect 
their properties.” ‘Investor-land­
lords’ partner with private-equity 
firms, who package landlords’ loans 
into mortgage-backed securities, 
then 
purchase 
formerly-owned 
properties with the extra credit and 
convert them to rental housing, 
largely in low-income neighbor­
hoods. Ocean’s director, Shmuel 
Aizenberg, put 101 multi-family 
homes on the city’s housing market 
as a $52 million package deal last 
month. This Monday, Aizenberg 
pleaded guilty to charges brought 
last October for fifteen housing 
code violations at three properties. 
He paid a fine of $3,750.


A representative of Ocean Man­
agement told me in February that 
the company did not currently 
keep a maintenance agency. “We 
get Farnam Realty Group to out­
source for us,” the representative 
told me. (As of April 30th, Farnam, 
a local brokerage firm, had severed 
ties with Ocean Management.)


When I inquired about Wade 
Beecher, the maintenance man­
ager of 18 Dewitt Street, the rep­
resentative informed me that as of 
January, Beecher was no longer an 
employee at Ocean Management. 
In May, the representative said 
they could not comment on indi­
vidual properties or ongoing legal 
cases.


6.
The Second Exile
By April of this year, the Naqib­
zois had moved to their third home 
since arriving in the United States, 
a 
recently-constructed, 
afford­
able-housing complex, still close to 
their children’s K-8 school. Amila 
and Navid successfully applied for 
a unit there. It is clean and safe and 
the rent was slightly cheaper. 


Erin Nozetz, the Lead Task 
Force director, recalled asking a 
social worker with a poisoned cli­
ent at the hospital about what could 
fix the lead contamination crisis: 
“She said, ‘if I could wave a wand, 
affordable housing.’” Median rent 
in New Haven has risen sharply, 
and getting off the waitlist for a 
Section 8 housing voucher, along­
side about eighteen thousand oth­
ers in line, can take seven to ten 
years. “Where do you go?” Nozetz 
asked.


I spoke with Alice Rosenthal, 
the director of Yale-New Haven 
Hospital’s 
medical-legal 
part­
nership, about the impact of the 
city’s lackluster prevention poli­
cies on vulnerable families. After I 
described the case of the Naqibzois 
to her, she was silent for a moment. 
“That’s terrible,” she said. “You’re 
leaving a kid in a home that’s 
incredibly vulnerable to further 
permanent damage for their brain. 
That’s egregious.” Yet account­
ability for affected families may 


--- Page 33 ---

 33
prove elusive. Rosenthal explained 
that families who learn about lead 
contamination later, from a past 
apartment, have little to no hope 
for a successful lawsuit, especially 
if they cannot prove where their 
child was first poisoned.


Advocates hope that H.B. 5045, 
which passed the Connecticut 
House on May 3rd with the sup­
port of the governor, will tighten 
the state’s threshold of “actionable” 
lead levels in children to match 
the CDC’s newest standard, at 
3.5 micrograms per deciliter. As 
the House debated the bill, New 
Haven’s leadership on lead since 
the settlement was cited as a pos­
itive. Mayor Justin Elicker has 
maintained a stricter standard for 
investigating lead cases since his 
election in 2020. But Connecti­
cut is just the beginning—and 
legislation does not always imply 
enforcement. New Haven is an 
“improvement upon other cities,” 
Brown and Nozetz say. But these 
improvements haven’t met the 
needs of families like the Naqib­
zois.


Maritza Bond, the current direc­
tor of New Haven’s Health Depart­
ment and the person who received 
the Naqibzois’ case files by email, 
has also expressed support for the 
bill. She announced her candi­
dacy for Connecticut Secretary 
of State last March. As she con­
sidered a run in September, 2021, 
Bond said, “I’ve led New Haveners 
through one of the worst moments 
in human history, while tackling 
long-standing, unanswered issues 
like lead poisoning in our infants 
and children.” 


When Bond was hired as Direc­
tor in January 2020, after leading 
Bridgeport’s Public Health depart­
ment for three years, she made 
lead poisoning a major priority. 
The reason so many lead abate­
ments appear in public records at 
all, some have argued, is because 
of Bond’s updated procedures, 
digital record-keeping, and newly 
hired lead inspectors—including 
Joy Waldron-Clouden. Even Amy 
Marx, who closely observed the 
city’s reforms after the class-action 
lawsuit, was impressed.


In July 2020, Bond blamed the 
city’s COVID-19 shutdown for 
delays in identifying young chil­
dren with lead poisoning. From 
mid-March to early June, she told 
the New Haven Register, the Health 
received 
no 
new 
reports of high lead levels because 
“there was a delay in routine chil­
dren’s care.” Naz’s case, however, 
began in November 2019, well 
before the shutdown. While the 
city’s first inspection delay in 2020 
could conceivably be explained by 
the pandemic, the Health Depart­
ment had lab evidence of her home’s 
contamination for months after 
in-person inspections and home 
visits resumed. Marx guesses that 
the delays were due to the “period 
of transition” for Mayor Elicker’s 
administration, which had to close 
an overload of lead poisoning cases 
left from the Harp administration. 
Even so, the Naqibzois’ case is 
“totally unacceptable,” Marx said. 
“But not unexpected.”


Rosenthal points to Massachu­
setts, where tenants must receive 
a property’s lead contamination 
history before signing a lease, or 
the District of Columbia, where 
inspectors have broader authority 
to assess any houses where chil­
dren are living, as more preventive 
models for lead poisoning. “But 
that’s really it, across the country,” 
Rosenthal said. “Generally, we’re 
being very reactive.” Landlords, 
insurers, and the lead paint industry 
have successfully fought lawsuits 
and lobbied on the state and federal 
level against greater protections. In 
Connecticut, health departments 
have even pushed back against the 
more stringent standards in H.B. 
5045, protesting that it presents an 
undue burden on inspectors and 
officials. Rosenthal scoffed at that 
idea. “These are children—this is 
children’s development!” she said. 
“I’m not even understanding why 
this is a conversation. How many 
kids do we have to poison before 
we take this seriously?”


* * *


Recently, I joined the Naqibzois 
as they broke the day’s fast at sun­
down. It was Ramadan, and Naz 
was preparing to start kindergarten 
the next fall at the school across the 
street. As we sat on long maroon 
couches, trading flatbread, dishes 
of beans with lemon, pakora frit­
ters, and vegetable samosas, Navid 
described his past annual vacations 
to Afghanistan. Each time, he tried 
to bring a gift to the friend who 
had helped him with his SIV appli­
cation in 2016. But with the Tal­
iban’s takeover, the vacations are 
no longer possible, and his friend 
is still in the country. I asked 
whether the family had any way of 
contacting him, and Navid shook 
his head. “I can’t reach him. I don’t 
even have his email anymore.” 


Amila and Navid were optimistic 
about their children’s new begin­
nings, but dispatches from Khost 
were difficult not to think about. 
As foreign aid evaporated, and 
their friends reported “no salaries, 
no food, no money,” Navid tried 
to budget $550 each week and 
wire it to his parents in Afghani­
stan. He did not know whether to 
expect to see them again. 


After dinner, Amila and Navid 
packed away the leftover flatbread 
for tomorrow’s 4 a.m. pre-sun­
rise meal. Shahid and his younger 
brother deciphered the paperwork 
required for Naz’s entry into kin-



**Title: Revealing Your Hand**
**Author: Abbey Kim**
**Page number(s): 34**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In the last months of high school, I learned tarot with my best 
friend beneath the new spring sun. The key to tarot is cycles; each 
suit contains a patchwork of highs, lows, and hesitations. Her 
favorite card is the High Priestess—a powerfully intuitive woman 
draped in blue, ruled by the Moon—while I love the Sun and its 
emblazoned sunflowers, dancing baby, and new beginnings. Card 
by card, the summer unfolded in front of us.


Seeing the future did not stop it, and it’s been a year since we’ve 
last drawn out our fate together. Instead, I offered my services to 
a stranger I met on a convoluted campus tour in August. He drew 
nothing but cups, ruled by emotional and insightful water energy, 
and now we get dinner every Wednesday. I read cards for my 
suitemates, knowing little more than their names, and watched 
their personalities emerge in swirls of blues and greens. Now, I 
puzzle why my suitemate pulls the High Priestess again and again. 
I ask strangers turned friends if the Fool sounds right, if they too 
have taken a leap of faith armed with hope alone. I buy cards for a 
new friend to teach them to read, to carry the Sun with me. 


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Tyler Jager**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

dergarten while Amila started cut­
ting red linens for her daughter to 
wear on her first days of school. 
In the living room, as his sisters 
turned on a Bollywood movie, I 
talked to Shahid about his weekly 
routine. He attended an IRIS youth 
group after school on Fridays, in 
the church next to Yale’s Timothy 
Dwight College. He would start 
attending again, after Eid. 
Shahid remembered Eid last 
year. It was May 2021, and his 
friends took him to Lighthouse 
Point Park for a barbecue.  The 
boys had hoped for an empty park, 
so that they could dance Attan 
along the boardwalk. Attan is a 
traditional Pashto dance, involving 
left-to-right pivots, careful steps, 
and twisting wrists. “There were 
Americans, and they were taking 
photos of us, they were recording 
us,” Shahid recalled. He didn’t like 
it, at all—the silent gaze of strangers 
made him feel self-conscious. The 
boys preferred to dance unseen, 
going out as late as 3 a.m. in the 
park to do so. 
Shahid guessed the Americans 
“thought we were Arab, or from 
Turkey.”Eventually, 
the 
boys 
asked the onlookers not to post 
any of the photos they took, and 
his friends decided to post their 
own videos of Attan on TikTok, 
to claim the recordings for them­
selves. 
In past years, the park had 
hosted the annual New Haven 
Lead Poisoning Awareness Pic­
nic, the short-lived brainchild of 
former health director Paul Kow­
alski. “We’re trying to keep the 
issue alive,” Kowalski told the 
New Haven Register in 2018. At 
one picnic, Kowalski dismissed the 
lead-related lawsuits against the 
city as “lies and distortions.” The 
fair was discontinued when Kow­
alski resigned, in 2019, after he was 
named in Marx’s class action suit. 
Picnics featured a banner with a 
slogan used in lead awareness cam­
paigns across the country:
LEAD FREE IS BEST FOR ME!
The message is no longer on 
display at Lighthouse Point Park. 
But on the day Shahid visited with 
his friends in 2021, to remind their 
onlookers in the park who they 
were, he hung the tricolor banner 
of Afghanistan from the ceiling 
of the park’s wooden pavilion—
though today, the Taliban’s flag 
flies in Kabul. Wind buffeted the 
flag in the direction of the light­
house, whipping bands of red, 
black, and green toward the sea. 
The boys kept dancing Attan. 
­—Tyler Jager is a senior in 
Silliman College.


**Title: Sisal**
**Author: Awuor Onguru**
**Page number(s): 36**

i
To weave a sisal basket one’s fingers must be nimble the 
way they touch necks or turn pages. They must be very 
dry. We will dye these baskets brown or leave them yel­
low. Whichever is easier for winnowing. A single stalk 
moves inwards, guided by a thousand. The wind moves 
around us like chewing. In a way, you are also my child, 
she says. You were also in my womb when I had her. 
To be born means to take responsibility for whoever 
birthed you. This is what I am learning today. So I say, 
grandma, look at that dog rolling in the sand. So that we 
can laugh. And then laugh harder.

ii
Because I am my grandmother’s mother.
and the mother
of my great grandmother
and of my mother
and of myself.
I am the mother of my mother
of my mother of my mother
I am my mother. 
Remember

iii
my therapist asks me who takes care of you. 
what? 
who takes care of you. 

iv
Outside the weather sticks 
to skin like wet skin. Light reaches 
us like scattered flour. 
there were three of us. 
It is easy to be lost. 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
My father and I drive in silence. No sound but the grinding of the gears. A car as old as my resentment. He shifts for 
me. Then the sudden urge to hit metal to metal, sending the car skidding endlessly towards an end. Handling stick 
is like handling a woman so why couldn’t he be good to my mother. As if responding, the leather on the steering 
wheel begins to peel away. Black bits sticking to my hands. The neighbourhood we drive through is a place I’ve 
always wanted to grow up in: houses big enough to hide anything you want. Anywhere you want.  The trees lining 
the road guide us into a dream of gentle suburbia, where someone tightly holds their child.  She has not yet torn up 
the pages. A jaguar slinks by carrying someone’s father. I ask the trees what a metal box could do to erase the drift 
between generations.


I sleep the dream of a sick person
Between my dreams there are patches of darkness that vibrate to the pulse of whatever love song I heard last. 
The black pulses are desperate. 
There is a film called loving where all the people kiss for three minutes. 
my fists clench where their eyes meet.
I go out into the streets in the middle of the night.
Is loving in this tree? In the scent of a flower? In the stones of the stair?


Yesterday we drilled seven holes in the wall trying to look for a place to hang my mosquito net.
So that I could have a place to rest.
The first hole was Thunder Road—I held you as you cried in the parking lot.
The second was the races. I still have the picture: me bald, you alive.
The third was an empty Josh Groban CD case stashed in between the car seats.
The fourth is a leather passport case.
The fifth hole is the frame of our picture at the races. It is made of cardboard, pink beads and playdough.
The sixth is the thing that holds up the frame, which is missing. 
The seventh is when you came to our bake sale and made the other dads laugh
by putting queen cakes on your head.
Today my only home is a P.O. Box. 
LESSON



**Title: Jovanni Cabanas navigates identity, embodiment, and a flawed drag performance scene.**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

PHOTOS BY LUKAS FLIPPO
DESIGN BY MEG BUZBEE
BODY BY SERENA LIN
POLITICS
T
eetering mountains of 
clothing filled the apart­
ment. Here and there, 
I could identify patches of fab­
rics—neon polyester, black latex, 
rhinestone-encrusted 
fishnets, 
and crumpled tulle. A yellowing 
Singer sewing machine sat atop 
plastic IKEA drawers overflowing 
with costume jewelry. On a pile of 
clothing hangers in an open suit­
case, a black cat perched. 
Jovanni Cabanas, who uses 
they/them pronouns, considered 
themself in a flimsy mirror, their 
face illuminated by a ring light. 
To their right was a lime green 
television tray packed with dusty 
jars of makeup brushes, stacks of 
eyeshadow palettes, and one can 
of Mango Loco Monster Energy 
Drink. Jovanni had secured their 
hair in place with a wig cap made 
from a cut nude stocking. It had a 
hole at the top, a tuft of dark curly 
On the first Friday of every month, 
Partners Cafe in New Haven, 
Connecticut, hosts an XL Drag Show. 



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40-42**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 40
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
hair sprouting through. Jovanni, 
though six feet tall, has a gentle 
way of holding themself. Their 
shoulders slope downwards—the 
curve of their back a concave 
“C.” Jovanni unscrewed various 
makeup jars, laying out a selection 
of tools. They began by slicking 
back their eyebrows with a purple 
Elmer’s glue stick. 
Jovanni is a drag queen. They 
were preparing for a performance 
at Partners, a gay club in New 
Haven. Their makeup routine 
took at least two hours, starting 
with three coats of a custard-like 
foundation. While waiting for 
each layer to dry, Jovanni fussed 
over my comfort. I assured them 
that I didn’t mind their cat Tux’s 
newfound interest in wrapping 
himself around my legs (he was 
a kitten, Jovanni explained), that 
I wasn’t cold with the window 
open (Jovanni was prone to over­
heating), that it was fine to leave a 
muted episode of Charmed on the 
television (it was a part of Jovan­
ni’s preshow routine), and that I 
hadn’t minded the drive to Jovan­
ni’s apartment in Hartford (they 
always got ready at home).  
Jovanni performs under the 
drag 
name 
Xiomarie 
LaBeija 
(Xiomarie, I was told, uses she/
her pronouns). Xiomarie is a reg­
ular presence at certain clubs and 
restaurants throughout Connecti­
cut and Massachusetts. She also 
performs at Pride parades, college 
LGBTQ events, charity fundrais­
ers for queer advocacy groups, and 
once, a retirement home. 


Xiomarie is not the thin, white 
drag queen you would expect 
to see on an episode of RuPaul's 
Drag Race, which has been criti­
cized for forwarding conventional 
beauty standards. Jovanni, now in 
their late twenties, is Afro-Latinx, 
gender nonbinary, and plus-sized 
(they sometimes refer to Xioma­
rie as “Xiomarie XL”). They told 
me that race and gender preju­
dices run rampant in the business, 
and it’s not easy to get opportuni­
ties when you don’t resemble the 
archetypical drag queen (thin and 
white). Drag, once a subculture 
forced to remain underground, 
has now come to resemble most 
other entertainment industries, 
luring people in with the promise 
of fame and money. Its prolifera­
tion is driven by mainstream pro­
grams like RuPaul, which purport 
to pluck queens out of obscurity 
and deliver them to the Met Gala 
or the pages of Vogue. This is the 
world that Jovanni exists within—
one that promises a neoliberal 
color- and gender-blindness while 
chasing the approval of institu­
tions that opened their doors only 
when they realized that drag sells. 

For Jovanni, though, drag was 
a calling. They spent most of their 
childhood in Bridgeport, Con­
necticut as “that fat gay boy.” At 
18, they were introduced to drag 
at a small gay club in Bridge­
port—the only of its kind at the 
time. Watching the performance, 
Jovanni had three thoughts in 
rapid succession: 
1. I can totally do that. 
2. I totally want to do that. 
3. I’m totally going to do that. 

There is a steep learning curve 
to drag. Before drag makeup tuto­
rials became commonplace on 
YouTube, most queens learned 
their professions through mentors. 
Many join “drag families,” where 
older members called “drag moth­
ers” take in fledgling performers. 
In a community where biologi­
cal relationships may be strained, 
these family units provide neces­
sary support. They also function 
as apprenticeships: older members 
train younger ones in presentation 
and performance. Jovanni learned 
how to vogue—a style of dance 
inspired by fashion model poses—
from their drag mother. Their 
drag family was also an early and 
crucial source of queer solidarity. 
It’s a tradition that Jovanni has 
carried on with their own drag 
daughters. 

Drag families are also important 
because jobs aren’t easy to find, 
especially paid ones. Fledgling 
queens might be asked to perform 
for free drinks or “exposure.” More 
established queens will bring their 
drag daughters on as supporting 
Xiomarie Labeija performs at a drag show at    
on April 1, 2022. 


---

**Title: The New Journal (Continued)**
**Page number(s): 41-42**

MAY 2022
 41
      Partners Cafe in New Haven, Connecticut, 
This is the world 
that Jovanni exists 
within—one that 
promises a 
neoliberal color- 
and gender-
blindness while 
chasing the 
approval of institu­
tions that opened 
their doors only 
when they realized 
that drag sells.
acts, helping them find a foothold 
in the business. But even so, few 
drag queens make enough money 
to perform full-time. Jovanni has 
often had to work two or three 
jobs on top of performing. They 
recently got a full-time job as a 
caseworker at A Place to Nourish 
your Health, a Connecticut non­
profit that provides services for 
people impacted by HIV/AIDS, 
substance abuse, and mental ill­
ness. 

In Connecticut and Massachu­
setts, established queens are usu­
ally paid a flat fee of one to two 
hundred dollars per performance. 
These flat rates are barely enough 
to cover the cost of costumes, 
makeup, and transportation. Cash 
tips are what might make a per­
formance “worth it” for Jovanni, 
in terms of money invested versus 
money made. But tips are notori­
ously unreliable. Fewer and fewer 
people carry cash these days, and 
audiences that are new to drag 
may 
not 
understand 
tipping. 

Jovanni has adapted by advertis­
ing their Venmo account before 
and after performances. They have 
also always been frugal—driving a 
fifteen-year-old car that doesn’t 
have heating and improvising 
drag outfits from discount Hal­
loween stores. 

So why do they continue to do 
drag? Jovanni is full of aphorisms 
like “representation matters” and 
“everyone is equal.” These phrases 
mean more coming from someone 
like Jovanni, who truly believes 
that seeing a drag queen (espe­
cially a plus-sized one of color) 
could change someone’s life. And 
why not? It changed theirs. 

As Jovanni puts it, “The conver­
sation changes once I perform. I 
don’t think you’ve ever seen some­
one who’s three hundred pounds 
do handstands while lip-syncing.”  
♦♦♦
Drag began as female imperson­
ation. At one time, the success of 
a drag was judged on a cis man’s 
ability to pass convincingly as a 
cis woman. It was about creating a 
feminine silhouette—tucking gen­
italia up and away, padding the 
breasts and hips. It was about eras­
ing masculine features from the 
face—softening a jaw, paring back 
the brows. Julian Eltinge, a female 
impersonator at the turn of the 
twentieth century, sold out shows 
and scored astonished reviews in 
major newspapers. Eltinge became 
something of a fashion icon to 
women, who flocked to his shows 
to take note of his stylish gowns 
and exquisite posture. Though 
one is not necessarily indicative 
of the other, female imperson­
ation has long been associated 
with homosexuality, so Eltinge 
had to work hard offstage to prove 
otherwise. He gave interviews 
about his upbringing on a farm 
and his interest in duck hunting. 
Being perceived as gay was dan­
gerous at the time. Police often 
raided gatherings where men 
reportedly dressed like women. 
Attendees were arrested for “social 
vagrancy”—code for homosexu­
ality. As historian Sharon Ullman 
puts it, the public has tended to 
“read sexual practice onto public 
gender presentation.” 

Around the same time as Eltinge 
was on Broadway, the formerly 
enslaved William Dorsey Swann 
held secret cross-dressing balls for 
Washington, D.C.’s gay commu­
nity. Swann took on great per­
sonal risk in throwing these par­



**Page number(s): 42**

 42
ties, which were attended by other 
formerly enslaved Black men. He 
was arrested several times and sent 
to prison at least once. Writer 
Channing Gerard Joseph claims 
that, as the leader of his circle, 
Swann was known as the “queen 
of the drag”—“drag” being a port­
manteau for “grand rag,” a term 
for a masquerade ball. This, Joseph 
argues, would make Swann the 
first known drag queen. 

Swann makes a fitting prede­
cessor to Harlem’s balls of the 
nineteen-seventies 
and 
nine­
teen-eighties. These balls were 
almost 
entirely 
populated 
by 
Black and Brown members of 
the queer community, who gath­
ered to compete in events evoc­
ative of beauty pageants. Some­
times the contests were judged 
on “realness”—the ability to pass 
convincingly as the aspirational 
object, which could range from a 
businessman to a military officer, 
a gangster to a schoolgirl. Other 
times, contestants were judged on 
stylistic and dramatic flair. 

Ballroom culture was immortal­
ized by Jennie Livingston in her 
1990 documentary Paris is Burning. 
The film is credited with introduc­
ing the underground subculture 
to mainstream audiences, but it’s 
often overshadowed by the con­
troversy surrounding Livingston, 
a queer, white Yale graduate who 
has been widely criticized for not 
compensating her subjects despite 
the film’s considerable profits. The 
documentary depicts the balls as 
raucous and joyous gatherings 
of a vulnerable community. The 
specter of poverty, homelessness, 
and the coming AIDS crisis looms 
large. Inside the ballroom, though, 
a queen, draped in billowing gold 
lamé and donning black opera 
gloves, saunters down an impro­
vised catwalk. Audience members 
fling their hands back in mock-
swoons. 

Notably, the documentary also 
features “drag houses,” which is 
a grandiose way of describing a 
multigenerational 
family. 
“House” is borrowed from the 
term for royal bloodlines, as in “of 
Windsor.” Belonging to a house 
allows you to claim an artistic 
lineage; the best houses can often 
trace their roots back to these 
Harlem balls. (Jovanni belongs to 
the House of LaBeija, which touts 
itself as the first drag house.)  
Today, drag queens can be 
found performing anywhere from 
boozy brunches on the Upper 
East Side to children’s story times 
at public libraries. RuPaul’s Drag 
Race has won four Emmys and 
Leishla Thompson performs on stage at Partners Cafe in New Haven, Connecticut.



**Title: MAY 2022**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 43-45**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
MAY 2022
 43
she/her pronouns, and went by 
Xiomarie. It was easy to pass, but 
being Xiomarie all the time didn’t 
feel authentic. “I realized I needed 
to take her off,” Jovanni told me. 
“I almost lost myself.” 
The transition also stopped, 
in part, because Jovanni moved 
home with their mother. They 
grew up in a traditional Chris­
tian family, where church was a 
big part of everyday life. Jovanni’s 
mother believed that homosexu­
ality was a sin and that Jovanni’s 
queer identity was a curse. Jovanni 
said, “For years, I’ve compromised 
my identity just to make sure that 
I wasn’t disappointing her.”  
Early this year, Jovanni had a 
breakthrough with their mother. 
inspired six spin-offs. As drag has 
found new audiences, it has also 
found new practitioners. Trans 
and cis women, as well as nonbi­
nary people have established forms 
of drag. Drag has long been tied 
to public and private expressions 
of the queer self, whatever form 
that may take. 
♦♦♦
In Hartford, Jovanni drew out 
the contour of their nose with 
an even hand. They left this 
unblended. They overlined their 
lips into a pink pout. As I watched 
them carve out the shadow of 
a cheekbone in a deep brown, 
Jovanni promised, “It’ll all come 
together.” 
Drag is meant to be an exag­
geration. Lashes are often inches 
long and thick as caterpillars. 
Wigs are voluptuous and flow­
ing. The point is to sell a fantasy, 
but not the fantasy of the ‘ideal 
woman,’ or at least not one you 
might imagine gracing the cover 
of Sports Illustrated or Cosmo­
politan. Drag is femininity in the 
extreme, so extreme that it might 
defy femininity altogether. There 
is no illusion of realism. Drag is a 
satire of gender performance, ask­
ing, ‘what is gender anyways?’ 
Jovanni might know better than 
anyone. They’ve moved through 
a spectrum of gender identities—
cis man, trans woman, nonbinary 
person. When they first entered 
the drag community, Jovanni 
thought they were a gay man 
trying out a new form of self-ex­
pression. Xiomarie, their drag 
alter ego, was just one facet of 
themselves. But Jovanni never felt 
quite at home in their masculinity. 
At college and away from home 
for the first time, Jovanni started 
identifying as a trans woman. 
They wore their hair long, used 


During the last hour of a long 
drive back from Baltimore (where 
Jovanni had two very successful 
gigs), their mother called. Jovan­
ni’s brother had always been 
supportive 
and, 
unbeknownst 
to Jovanni, had confronted their 
mother about her relationship 
with Jovanni. He knew that 
Jovanni’s 
strained 
relationship 
with their mother was prevent­
ing Jovanni from fully embracing 
their identity. 
During this call, Jovanni finally 
told their mother about being 
nonbinary. They also told her 
about their career as a drag queen. 
To Jovanni’s surprise, their mother 
was supportive.
“We were able to break down 


boundaries and barriers that have 
been up for so long,” Jovanni told 
me, “And I was able to hear words 
that I’ve never thought—even 
in my dreams—I would hear.” 
Jovanni felt that a burden had 
been shed, that they could finally 
be themselves in all facets of their 
life. 
What does drag mean to some­
one who has struggled with 
expressing their queerness? It 
might seem odd that someone 
who has rejected the gender 
binary would come to embrace an 
art form that seems to be a perfor­
mance of gender in the extreme. 
But as queer scholar Nick Cherry­
man writes, “Much of mainstream 
drag comes to represent another 
gender altogether removed from, 
yet integrally linked to, the social 
idea of the gender binary…The 
‘drag queen gender’ [exists] in the 
queer-‘other.’” Drag isn’t easily 
categorized into male or female 
gender expression. It is a form of 
gender expression within itself. It 
has its own gender norms—expec­
tations of social behavior, physical 
appearance, and sexual prefer­
ences. These norms are enforced, 
like most gender stereotypes, by 
both in- and out-group members. 
In a subculture under much public 
scrutiny, the expectations may be 
more stringent. 
Drag is a performance much 
like—à la Judith Butler—all gender 
is a performance. It’s a testament 
to Jovanni’s skill as a performer 
that I found it difficult to pin­
point the moment Jovanni became 
Xiomarie. I asked them if there is a 
particular moment when they feel 
themselves stepping into another 
identity. “When I have those 
lashes on,” Jovanni said, “honey, 
This was a six-foot-tall, 
three-hundred-pound 
person executing a 
five-minute dance 
routine with the pep 
and stamina of a Dallas 
Cowboys cheerleader.
you can’t tell me anything.” 
Jovanni and I parted ways at 
their apartment in Hartford, tak­
ing our own cars to the venue. 
When I arrived at Partners in New 
Haven, it was Xiomarie I found. 
She was in a makeshift dressing 
room in the dingy basement of 
the club, putting the final touches 
on her look. Xiomarie wore a tie-
dyed leotard with sewn-on yel­
low mesh sleeves, trimmed with 
large rhinestones. Paired with a 
flouncing and voluminous pink 
wig, it gave the effect of an nine­
teen-eighties aerobics instructor 
to the nth degree. 
The club was packed, leaving 
little room between Xiomarie 
and her audience. The closeness 
made the physicality required for 
her routine all the more obvious. 
When Xiomarie flung her leg into 
a perfect high kick or launched 
herself off the stage directly into a 
split, you could feel her movement 
through the air, hear the thud of 
her heeled boots against the floor. 
This was a six-foot tall, three-
hundred-pound person executing 
a five-minute dance routine with 
the pep and stamina of a Dallas 
Cowboys cheerleader. As prom­
ised, everything came together in 
the performance. The makeup was 
meant to be seen in movement. 
Even from across the club, you 
could make out every lip-synced 
word and dramatic wink. The wig 
clung to place through each hair 
flip and somersault. (I later learned 
that Xiomarie had duct-taped the 
wig to her scalp.) Between the 
headstands and the triple axel, 
but before the closing death drop, 
Xiomarie had worked the crowd 
into a fervor. They jostled against 
each other to get a better view. 
They cheered so hard their vodka 


sodas splashed onto their neigh­
bors. Those who had brought cash 
were frantically waving it, which 
Xiomarie collected with appropri­
ate dramatic flair. 
Drag is a fantasy that engages 
both the performer and the audi­
ence. There are meaningful com­
parisons to be made between drag 
and stripping, as queer scholar 
Sarah 
Hankins 
notes. 
Some 
queens, like strippers, create inti­
mate and even erotic connections 
with audience members. There 
may be individualized attention, 
the allowance of some touch, or a 
privately shared smile. Like strip­
pers, drag queens rely on cash tips 
and know how to get them. Like 
strippers, drag queens work in the 
medium of their body. There is 
the flourish of an arm, the swivel 
of a hip, the extension of a leg. 
There is something sensual and 
heady about the performance and 
its proximity. You feel that, per­
haps, you can share in the queen’s 
beauty. 
By the end of Xiomarie’s set, the 
stage was littered with crumpled 
bills. The hostess, a drag queen in 
a red Jessica Rabbit dress named 
Kiki Luca, commanded “white 
twinks” in the audience to get on 
all fours and collect the money. In 
the tittering commotion, Xiom­
arie disappeared into the back of 
the club. 
In the dressing room, I found 
Xiomarie draped over a velvet 
sofa, trying to catch her breath. 
The other queens were either 
recovering from or preparing for 
their own performances. It looked 
like a beauty store had exploded. 
All over, there were open bottles 
of loose glitter, disembodied man­
nequin heads (for wigs), tins of 
translucent powder, and all sorts 
of serums and glues and creams. 
Xiomarie seemed to be taking it 
all in—the cacophony of queens 
trading barbs and the din of the 
crowd upstairs, the soft blanket of 
cigarette smoke and hairspray set­
tling over the room. 
I was watching from my own 
corner, thinking about how drag 
returned the body to itself. Drag 
removes the body from what it 
means or what it should be. The 
body just is. 
Drag removes the body 
from what it means or 
what it should be. The 
Back in the dressing room 
though, Jovanni had more import­
ant things to do than agonize 
over the phenomenology of it all. 
There was only one hour between 
the first and second show and an 
entire costume change to execute. 
Tape was readjusted, dresses shim­
mied off, wigs swapped, powder 
reapplied to every crevice. 
After all, the show must go on. 
—Serena Lin is a junior in 
Branford College.



**Title: Wild Onions**
**Author: Rachel Shin**
**Page number(s): 46-47**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
our suburban Pennsylvanian homestead. My hometown, growing off the edges of a turnpike, offered 
little in the way of adventure. Gas stations, fast food 
joints, and supermarkets clustered around the pike 
like pins on a magnet, while lush plains fluttered in 
my daydreams. My imagination filled in some gaps: 
telephone wires transformed into clotheslines, and 
the new-growth dogwoods became bulging maples 
ready for sapping. I could not, however, conjure 
acres of crops, and my mother’s perennially empty 
soil bed saddened me. Our little brush-cut lawn was 
too neat. I told my father to stop cutting our grass so 
that it could billow freely in the wind. He responded 
that, thanks both to biology and our development’s 
landscaping regulations, our grass could never grow 
as tall as the grass on the prairie. It was forever fet­
tered to a manicured existence. I could sympathize. 
I told my father that there was not enough rugged 
glamor in this life for me, not enough mustangs or 
twenty-foot snowstorms. My Old Navy sweaters 
and khakis were suffocating me. I was born to be 
draped in calico and gingham. 

My father—with his clean-shaven face and neat, 
professorial wardrobe—didn’t fit into my picture of 
a hardscrabble life on the American frontier, either. 
Instead of reading books by the TV, I wanted him 
to grow a full beard and oil muskets by the fire. I 
wished that he would, just once, stave off wildcats 
in the night instead of shooing away rabbits from 
the bushes. I mistook his gentleness for a lack of nec­
essary vigor. But in his own way, my father enter­
tained my fantasy. One July morning, he showed me 
that there were wild onions growing sporadically in 
the empty lot behind our house. We crouched down, 
observing how the clay-toned soil threw the onions’ 
emerald sprigs into relief. My father knew that I 
would delight in any opportunity to forage, to act 
out the enterprising nature I so admired in Laura. He 
offered to pay me ten cents per onion (ludicrously 
generous by eighteen-seventies standards), and I 
jumped at the offer. Every day that July, I scavenged 
for wild onions in the back lot. That summer was 
particularly dry, and heat relentlessly chased away 
the clouds and morning dew, baking the dirt of the 
lot into a leathery citrine. Only the most hardy tufts 
of grass and weeds survived––and, surprisingly, so 
did many wild onions, which flourished in otherwise 
barren patches.

My eyes sharpened. Soon enough, I could detect 
the wild onions’ slender bristles from a distance, even 
through the glare of the midday sun. Spotting one 
always brought the thrill of finding a clever hide-
and-seek player. If these onions learned to tame their 
unruly cowlicks, I thought, they’d be imperceptible. 
Upon finding an onion, I’d excise it carefully from 
the ground, never tugging its mane for fear of dam­
aging my precious find. After trowelling around it, 
I’d remove it with a surrounding womb of earth, 
then finish by dusting it off with reverence. I always 
felt a little intoxicated by the sharp-sweet smell of 
a freshly unearthed onion fermenting in the heat. 
Granular beads of juice dripped from the skin, accen­
tuating its luster and making it sticky to the touch. 
The bottom of the onion, where its slopes converged 
into a perfect point like the tip of a medieval helm, 
was my favorite. 

My delight in finding onions never wavered. I 
imagined that the barren lot, home of my prairie fan­
tasies, was once a rippling green plain now laid bare 
by a locust storm. And the miracles were believable: 
whenever it seemed I had exhausted the onion sup­
ply, I found that the weary earth somehow mustered 
the strength to graciously provide more.

One day, after harvesting a particularly bountiful 
crop, I squatted to detangle the onions’ knotted stems 
in the shade of the car in our driveway. Nearby was 
my mother’s small soil bed, which had been empty 
since she had attempted to cultivate basil there at 
the start of the summer. She planted the seeds and 
watered them diligently to no avail. Every day for a 
month, I watched her inspect the earth for signs of 
growth, but not even the smallest shoot emerged. I 
brushed it off. That, I thought, was life on the prairie. 
Not every crop had the fortitude of my wild onions.

As I untwisted and arranged my onions into neat 
three-by-three columns, I saw my father walk out 
of the house and approach the empty bed. He didn’t 
see me behind the car as he poked around the soil, 
examining it with a gentle bobbing of the head. I 
was curious; I thought only my mother nursed the 
fantasy that something might still sprout there.

But my father knelt gingerly beside the dirt and 
revealed a small pot, which had been nestled in the 
crook of his arm. I craned forward, convinced I was 
witnessing something secret. He pulled a miniature 
trowel from his pocket and dug a hole in the grave­
yard of my mother’s basil seeds. Tenderly and slowly, 
he extracted a tiny sprout from his pot and trans­
planted it. He muddled the mulch around the sprout, 
disguising its true identity, and threw the pot into the 
trashcan in the garage before hurrying back inside.

I watched all of this so intently that I didn't real­
ize my onions were frying on the pavement, their 
stems reduced to limp strings while their bulbs 
deflated like birthday balloons a week after the party. 
I took them back to the empty lot and left them in 
a row for animals to eat. I didn’t want to disappoint 
my father with low-quality produce. From the lot, I 
looked over to my house and saw my parents come 
outside. My father pointed at the bed, and they both 
doubled over, inspecting what I knew was the newly 
transplanted sprout. My mother sprang up, and her 
delighted voice rang out as she thrust her arms into 
a triumphant V above her head. I laughed to myself, 
knowing what she never would. She thought that the 
growth of her basil was a miracle. I decided not to tell 
her. I was content to turn back to my work, glanc­
ing up to see her silhouette moving in the heat, arms 
outstretched in victory like the stems of a wild onion. 
Only years later did I realize that the lot behind my 
house was completely barren after that summer—and 
that there were marks of my father’s affection that I 
didn’t see.
—Rachel Shin is a first-year in Silliman College.


<br>

**Title: CAR WINDOW**
**Author: Rafaela Kottou**
**Page number(s): 47**

My mother let me sit in the front seat of her car when 
I was far too young to sit in the front seat of any car. 
None of my friends were allowed to sit there. They 
all sat in the back and their mothers waited until they 
buckled their seatbelts before driving. My mother never 
reminded me to buckle my seatbelt, but I did anyway 
because I knew that kids were supposed to use seatbelts 
and the other mothers would look down on my mother 
if they found out I wasn’t. 

My mother always had the radio playing in her car: 
100.5. I traced circles in the frost from the cold water 
vapor on the passenger seat window. My mother drove 
fast, her car chasing the street lights and the moon 
chasing us, and the radio playing “Hey There Delilah.” 
What’s it like in New York City, he asked. I didn’t 
know what New York City was. I didn’t really want 
to know. I drew a tulip in the frost, bending my knees 
so that I was sitting like the ugly bird my mother once 
showed me in a science book. Tonight you look so 
pretty, he sang. I leaned my chin against the window 
and traced a butterfly, then covered the drawings with 
my thumb because I didn’t want anyone to see them. 



**Title: ASIDES**
**Author: PAOLA SANTOS**

THE POPSICLES ARE MELTING 
AGAIN

The Walgreens coolers aren’t cool. The hollowed-out 
stumps hug the Fanta-orange tulips (she loves tulips). 
You’re scouting out perches, not-so-secret gardens, and 
benches if they’re free around noon. These unending 
days make you feel invincible, but also bring a tinge 
of nightly turbulence. Are you sun-kissed or is that 
sucker-punched feeling just a fever? You indulge in 
three-hour naps. You dream of Managuan rainstorms, 
but then remember what humidity does to your hair. 
You miss the snow because it was new, but you like the 
trees because they are old. “They weren’t supposed to 
have flowers on them.” But they do. You’ve always liked 
generous seasoning, but you never quite understood the 
seasons like you did on Tuesday. 

It’s these big, little changes that grip you. 

Your friend wears silver streaks in her hair, but she’s not 
graying—she’s just bored. It’s a blissful sort of restless­
ness. Dangerous, even. 

You asked her for blue streaks in yours. 

The sprouting of spring feels like the tinsel tied to your 
curls. It glimmers, it hides. It tucks behind your ears, and 
sometimes when they see it, strangers speak to you for 
no reason at all.  



**An Enlightening Bike Ride with Yale Professor (and Expert Cyclist) Jacob Hacker is Eclipsed by Questions of Mortality**
**Author: Yonatan Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 49-50**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
MAY 2022
 49
Where was it that I first heard the rumors? Was it 
a comment on a drive back from a bike race? A stray 
remark at a holiday party? I struggled to believe that 
one person could be so many things: a Yale professor, 
the architect of Obamacare, and the fastest cyclist in 
New Haven. Looking to separate truth from fiction, I 
set out to find the man.


I had started biking more seriously only during the 
pandemic. Hours of open road and blue skies served 
as a vital escape from the constraints of lockdown 
life. But the risks of the sport always weighed heavily 
upon me. Riding on the shoulders of car-filled roads, I 
thought often about what would happen if one of the 
cars swerved. Perhaps a ride with an expert in health­
care policy could help me figure out if the sport was 
really worth it.


On the same day that Obama visited the White 
House to mark the 12th anniversary of the passage of 
the Affordable Care Act, I met Jacob Hacker, Stan­
ley B. Resor Professor of Political Science, outside his 
East Rock home. I could spot his neon-yellow gloves 
from two blocks away, the only spot of color on his 
otherwise all-black, skin-tight kit. 


In his professional life, Hacker is most known for 
his work on social and public policy. Though he 
didn't create Obamacare, he did generate the idea for 
the public option, a government-created health insur­
ance plan that would have functioned as an afford­
able alternative to options on the private market, 
though it never became law. Elsewhere in his work, 
he has written about how the U.S. government has 
transferred burdens and risks from corporations onto 
individuals and the working class in the post-Reagan 
years of anti-government politics. You might not 
guess it while watching Hacker cycle—in the groups 
he rides with, bikes are worth sums that others would 
not save in months—but concern for lower-income 
citizens permeates his writings. One of his books—
Winner-Take-All-Politics: How Washington Made the 
Rich Richer and Turned Its Back on the Middle Class—
became a New York Times best-seller during the 
Occupy Wall Street protests.


After meeting at his house, we set off for Sleeping 
Giant State Park, a dozen or so miles from Yale’s cam­
pus, and the site of a weekly road ride that is notori­
ously brutal and fast. Hacker insisted he's not the fast­
est cyclist in the city today, but he is one of the fastest. 
I had no hopes of keeping up with Hacker and his 
fellow racers once that ride began. So, as we rode up 
through East Rock and then north out of New Haven 
on our way to meet the group, I worked to get in as 
many questions as I could. More theoretical questions 
about, say, the neoliberal resonances of cycling tights, 
would have to be explored another time.


As our ride progressed, it became clear to me that 
Hacker is the closest thing to Rob Lowe's The West 
Wing character I could hope to meet in person. A 
three-time collegiate national cycling champion, he's 
a triple threat: a celebrated intellectual, a top-tier ath­
lete, and, frankly, pretty handsome. On the day of our 
ride, even Hacker's salt-and-pepper stubble seemed to 
sparkle.


As Hacker and I dodged protruding sewer grates 
and made way for passing cars, I asked him about 
some of the darker aspects of the sport he has come 
to love.
I jumped straight in.


"Have you had any friends get killed while cycling?" 
At the heart of road biking, there's a bit of a par­
adox. If all goes well, you usually come back from 
your ride energized, relaxed, and more tolerant of 
the irritations of daily life. Exercise is understood to 
improve mental health, and if it's true of running on a 
treadmill, it's a good bet for biking as well. Whizzing 
through the countryside with little beneath you but 
a pair of wheels and nothing above you but the sky, 
life is better.


The risks of the sport, however, are hard to ignore. 
More than eight hundred cyclists have been killed 
each year since 2015, according to the National 
Highway Traffic Safety Administration. And though 
the odds of getting hit on any given ride might not 
be particularly high, it's little consolation as an eigh­
teen-wheeler zooms past. Cars have passed me by lit­
tle more than the length of the hair on my legs.


Hacker told me he hasn't had any friends killed in 
bike accidents, but he’s had some bad crashes of his 
own. A number of years ago, he was riding with a 
group from New Haven down Connecticut Route 17 
when he struck debris in the road. Unable to react in 
time, he was catapulted headfirst into the road's side 
rail, and his face split open. The other riders in the 
group called 911 immediately, and he was rushed to a 
hospital where he received the care he needed. If they 
hadn't been present, things may not have worked out 
as well.


"I would probably be dead," Hacker said. 


After the crash, he did not cycle for a long time, and 
he questioned whether the sport was really worth the 
risks. I asked him what ultimately brought him back. 
"The joy," he replied.


The shoulder narrowed, and he pulled ahead of me 
as we rode over a highway overpass. In the distance, 
the clustered trees of a nearby state park sat unmov­
ing beneath the overcast, light gray afternoon sky. To 
our right, a pair of birds circled patiently in the air. 
Moments later, a pair of cars took the opportunity to 
pass us. The noise of their engines growled in our 
ears from a few feet away, and my left-side peripheral 
vision was momentarily subsumed by a rush of black 
and gray, the colors of the cars driving past . A blend 
of suburban tedium, car-induced micro-terror, and 
pastoral ideal, it's typical of rides in the area.


We turned off Ridge Road and wound our way 
through a hilly neighborhood that sits between 
Hamden and North Haven. Feeling short of breath, 
I bracketed hopes for extended conversation and 
focused on keeping up. Hacker, ahead of me by a few 
bike lengths, had crested the section's final climb and 
began the descent. As I pushed my way to the top, 
Hacker tucked his forehead to his handlebars to mini­
mize air resistance and sped down the hill. A driveway 
sat treacherously at the bottom of the hill, partially 
hidden by a curve in the road. Ninety-nine times out 
of a hundred, the thinking goes, a driver would look 
both ways before exiting the driveway. As for the one 
in a hundred? Hacker and I are lucky to have health 
insurance.


—Yonatan Greenberg is a junior in Saybrook Col­
lege and an Associate Editor of The New Journal.


**Crossword**
**Author: Jesse Goodman**
**Page number(s): 51**

 51



**No Title Information Provided**
**Author: Not Provided**
**Page number(s): 52**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:

--- Page 52 ---
