Publication date: November 7, 1971
Volume: five
Issue number: two


**MASTHEAD:**
- None present in provided text


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**


**Title:  *'S 1 "ON lfWJOld**
**Author:  ·uuo3 ' UOlA~H MOlN**
**Page number(s): 1**

*'S 1 "ON lfWJOld 
·uuo3 ' UOlA~H MOlN 
. 
P!~ 
•iJd J!JO.Id UON 
~d - S"O 





--- Page 2 ---

Comment: 
Volume five, number two 
YNF AC Election 
bably won't lose. It's been working too 
own means of governance. The Yale 
November 7, 1971 
long. Its leaders are too sincere, its In-
employee must vote in the election 
Bruce Howard 
ternational too helpful. And Yale's 
November 17 without knowing what 
white-collar workers need a union too 
the constitution will be; he will then 
Editors: 
In February, 1966, Bill Berndtson, an 
much. 
help determine what it will be himself. 
Richard Conniff 
employee at the Department of Epi-
When YNF AC voted unanimously 
What the voters must consider is 
Suzanne Wittebort 
demeology and Public Health, saw 
last spring to affiliate with the National 
that a vote for YNF AC is a calculated 
workers planting trees and shrubs beside 
Council of Distributive Workers of 
risk, and not a submission to a power-
Associate Editors: 
the new EPH building. When he asked 
America (NCDWA), they got the money 
ful New York union. If they vote for 
Ron Roe! 
why, he. was told that the architect 
to put three of their top organizers on 
YNF AC, they should be willing to work 
Joel Rogers 
thought the trees were necessary to en-
full-time salaries. They got Jerry Grote, 
actively in the union's democratic self-
.. 
hance the EPH facade. Berndtson, a 
a top union lawyer, to represent them 
determination. 
Executive Editor: 
Yale employee for seven years, was 
in front of the NLRB. YNFAC gave 
If Yale employees reject YNFAC 
Michael Csar 
making $375 a month. The trees cost 
NCDWA nothing but the promise that 
on November I 7, they will be resign-
$40,000. 
every member of the union would pay 
ing themselves to a future of their pre-
Designer: 
"That was the last straw," Berndtson 
the International $1.15 a month, 80 
sent inadequate salary and benefit con-
Judith Fletcher 
says. "I was sick of Yale's regard for 
cents of which is returned to the local 
ditions. They wiU be free to believe in 
things and disregard for people." During 
for further organization. But they gave 
their "educational mission," "unique-
Business Manager: 
his lunch hour the next day he went to 
Yale its major anti-union argument. 
ness,'' and "personal relationship" with 
Ray Rund 
the Union Temple in downtown New 
Marcus spends a lot of time talking 
Mother Yale. They will be left with 
Haven and walked into the first office 
about NCDWA's largest local, District 
empty pockets and in some cases, the 
Contributing Editors: 
he came to. It belonged to Vincent Sira-
65, a New York-based affiliate which 
complacent snobbery of being a white-
Daniel Y ergin 
bella, who was then the business manager 
created the International in 1969, and 
collar worker at a prestigious, though 
Jonathan Marks 
of Local 21 7. 
whose membership still makes up 95 
tight-fisted. university. 
Stephen Thomas 
"Just try and get them to sign union 
per cent of NCDWA. Marcus stresses 
Sam Miller 
cards," Sirabella advised. 
the role of this NCDWA affiliate for 
Susan Holahan 
That night Berndtson wrote Yale 
two reasons. First, the more he talks, 
Dear Mr. Mcintyre: 
Dan Mcintyre 
that he intended to unionize the EPH 
the more he fosters the common em-
Leo Ribuffo 
workers. In March, Yale asked Leonard 
ployee fear that their union is being 
Ed Zelinsky 
Michael Lerner 
Marcus, then working for Inland Steel, 
controlled by "outside forces." Se-
Steven R. Weisman 
to come to New Haven to consult on 
cond, District 65 is composed of un-
I must take issue with both th\! sui.>-
"matters of employee. relations." By the 
skilled and semi~skilled laborers, while 
stance and tone of Dan Mcintyre's analy-
Staff: 
time Berndston came back to the person-
YNF AC hopes to represent white-
~is of the recent New Haven Demo-
to; '
Rachel Hooper, Kiki 
nel offices in June with union affiliation 
collar workers. Marcus knows the aver-
cratic mayoralty campaign. 
Gordon, John Gussman, 
cards from 65 per cent of the EPH em-
age skilled employee doesn't want to 
Mr. Mcintyre's central thesis is that 
Suzanne Wofford, Roople 
ployees, Marcus, with 15 years of 
be associated with the"'working clas-
reform candidate Henry E. Parker aban-
Hacher, Tom Joseph, 
management experience, was Direc-
ses ., in NCDWA 's biggest local. 
doned principle and avoided controversy 
Kathy Lally, Dee 
tor of Employee Relations. He refused 
There is no evidence to support 
in a single-minded (but unsuccessful) 
Siegelbaum 
to recognize the union on the grounds 
Marcus's argument. For YNFAC to 
quest for power. Vincent Sirabella 's 
that it was an inappropriate unit. 
disaffiliate from NCDWA all it has 
campaign. on the other hand. was an 
Publisher: 
Berndtson and the Yale Non-Facul-
to do is give NCDWA 30 days notice 
inspired. quixotic "coalition of working 
Paul Goldberger 
ty Action Committee challenged this 
of the disaffiliation vote, and allow a 
people of all races." 
decision three years later before the 
representative of the International to 
. There is only one word for such sur-
Third Class and Non-Profit 
National Labor Relations Board, and 
speak at the meeting at which the vote 
realistic political reporting: bullshit. 
postage PAID in New Hav-
lost. The NLRB ruled that only a 
is taken. A majority vote of the mem-
Mr. Mcintyre (somewhat unethical-
en, Conn. The New Journal 
campus-wide unit would be appropriate 
bership at that meeting woud break 
ly) did not tell The New Journal readers 
is published by The New 
for a recognized union, and thus began 
YNFAC's affiliation to NCDWA. 
that he was an active participant in the 
Journal at Yale, Inc. 3432 
YNF AC's two year campaign to union-
NCDWA can't afford YNFAC's disaf-
Sirabella campaign. Readers were led to 
Yale Station, New Haven, 
ize all Yale's white-collar employees. 
filiation. "A happy, autonomous union 
believe that they were confronting an 
Conn. 06520, and is print-
The campaign ends in one week with 
at Yale is crucial for the success of 
impartial news analysis when, in fact, 
ed at The News Press, a 
the November 17 election. 
NCDWA 's building and expansion," said 
they were reading a partisan apologetic. 
division of the West Hart-
In the election, Yale's 2500 clerical 
AI Avenoff, a NCDWA national represen-
Mr. Mcintyre complains of Hank Park-
ford News. 
and technical employees will vote to ac-
tative. '·Yale will be an inspiration for 
er's alleged lack of interest in "en-
cept or reject YNFAC as their official 
other white-collar campaigns, and losing 
franchising the dispossessed." A para-
The New Journal copy-
bargaining agent. If a majority of the 
YNFAC would be disastrous." 
graph later, he discusses the highly sue-
right 1971 by The New 
voters accept YNF AC , then the union 
Marcus contends that, if YNFAC 
cessful voter· registration effort conduct-
Journal at Yale, Inc., a 
will form a constitution and elect of-
wins, an eloquent spokesman from the 
ed by the Parker forces. Only one of his 
non-profit corporation. 
ficers to negotiate a contract with Yale. 
New York-based union will come to its 
assertions can be correct. 
If the majority vote no, then the "hired 
first meeting and persuade the "few 
The truth. of course. is that Parker 
Telephone: 776-9989 
gun'' from Chicago, as Berndtson calls 
hundred people present" to accept 
and his supporters were acutely sensitive .. 
Marcus, will have dealt with the white-
whatever he tells them is in their best 
to the need for extending political par-
Letters are welcome. Un-
collar union a severe blow. "A white-
interest. It is doubtful that this would 
ticipation. Many of the key people in 
solicited manuscripts should 
collar union at Yale is inevitable," says 
happen at Yale. The people YNFAC re-
the campaign were themselves fairly 
be accompanied by a 
Berndtson, "but a defeat on the 17th 
presents are generally well-educated and 
new to politics. Hundreds of other 
stamped, self-addressed 
will mean a long delay." 
less easily influenced by labor rhet-
people, previously unpoliticized, were 
envelope. Opinions ex-
More likely, a defeat will be 
oric. Marcus's prediction violates his 
attracted to the Parker campaign, there-
pressed in the articles 
YNFACs deathblow, for it'll mean that 
oft-repeated first commandment, "Don't 
by gaining their first exposure to govern-
arc not necessarily those 
Yale's employees bought Marcus's argu-
ever underestimate the Yale worker." 
ment and political self~etermination. 
of The New Journal. 
ments. YNF AC's leaders are idealistic, 
The potential risk involved in 
In addition, the Parker forces re-
with hopes of a purely democratic labor 
YNF AC's success comes from the ideal-
cruited new people to run for municipal 
union. Marcus is trying to create an at-
ism of its leadership. This is best 
office, many of whom had little or no 
mosphere of suspicion, "caution" as he 
evidenced by their atypical insistence 
history of political involvement. An of-
calls it, and if he succeeds, this suspi-
on not writing a constitution until 
ficer of the New Haven Welfare Moms 
/,arry: Where were you when 
cion will stain YNFAC's idealism to 
after the election, with the intention of 
I needed you. Lady 
death. On the other hand, YNFAC pro-
allowing the members to choose their 
continued on paxe 15 


**Title: Summer in South Africa**
**Author: Michael Freedberg**
**Page number(s): 3**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
.,. 
Michael Freedberg 
;. 
Summer in South Africa 
Sport, particularly rugby, is a way of 
life for most South Africans; this has 
been the one sphere (besides heart 
transplants) in which South Africa has 
been able to maintain preeminence. I 
returned to South Africa this summer, 
after three years in America. On Sat-
urday mornings we would cluster 
around our radios (there is no tele-
vision) and listen to reports of riot-
. torn rugby matches in Australia. "Our 
boys" were subjected to physical at-
tacks. smoke bomb assaults, and chant-
ing anti-apartheid demonstrators. Clearly, 
much had happened to South Af-
rica in my absence. 


It became apparent over the two 
months I stayed there that startling 
changes were taking place in a society 
where change occurs very slowly, if at 
all. Tremendous political turmoil ap-
peared as groups re-defined themselves 
or broke away from more traditional 
groups. This is a traumatic time for 
South Africa, where the role of the 
Afrikaner has always been rigidly de-
fined: where a complex political struc-
ture has been built up to fulfill what 
the Afrikaner saw as his divine mission 
in Africa; and where race attitudes have 
become innexible and hardened over 
cent~ries of bitter connict and struggle. 
Thousands of black and white South 
Africans had either been exiled or had 
exiled themselves from a society which 
since 1948 (when the present Dutch-
descended Afrikaner government came 
to power} had become progressively re-
pressive and anti-democratic. Having 
left in frustration and disillusionment, 
they could hardly have foreseen the 
present developments: the splitting 
open of a previously closed political 
system. 


Certainly I could predict little change 
when I left South Africa over three 
years ago on the wave of the fust signi-
ficant student protest in twenty years 
of National Party rule. A I 0-day sit-in 
at the University of Cape Town over the 
government's blocking of a black faculty 
appointment had provoked outspoken 
and vicious reactions from the prime 
minister and a variety of cabinet minis-
ters. More importantly, it had generated 
larger-than-usual marches and demon-
strations at other student centers in 
Johannesburg and Durban. 


Despite government intimidation of 
students who were sitting-in (removal 
of parents from jobs, withdrawal of pass-
ports, denial of scholarships, detention, 
and even, in some cases, imprisonment), 
it was not the government or its police 
which had ended the action. Only when 
faced with a thousand hostile Afrikaner 
university students bent on evicting us 
violently from the building did we evacu-
ate. 


Anyone opposed to apartheid must 
first come to terms with the Afrikaner's 
profound sense of his uniqueness. The 
Afrikaner's historical mission is clear. 
Hendrik Verwoerd, Prime Minister of 
South Africa until he was assassinated 
in 1966, described it in these terms: 
"It was intended that we should have 
been planted here at the southern point 
within the crisis area of western civiliza-
tion so that from this resistance group 
might emanate the victory whereby all 
that has been built up since the days of 
Christ may be maintained for the good of 
all mankind." 


Because of his supposed uniqueness, 
the Afrikaner believed that he was right, 
whatever criticisms came from the "out-
side world." His moral righteousness 
resulted in a crude nationalism which 
made apartheid its slogan and racial 
superiority its foundation. By 1970 the 
ideology had managed to fashion a pow-
erful state machine, repressive and coer-
cive in the extreme, with a bureaucratic 
structure having control over all aspects 
of the society. 


Apartheid became ''separate develop-
ment," which envisaged a number of 
black nations, called "homelands," in-
dependent of the white nation. Both 
blacks and whites would then retain 
their geographical, historical, and cultur-
al integrity. 


''As long as domination of one race 
by another exists there will be resist-
ance and unrest," argued Verwoerd. 
"The solution should be sought in a 
policy which is calculated te eliminate 
domination in every form." The policy 
made no allowance for the facts that 
the blacks. about 80 per cent of the 
population. would receive 13 per cent 
of the land. and that increasing economic 
integration in the urban areas makes 
whites vitally dependent on cheap 
black labor. 



**South Africa: A Nation in Transition**
**Author: Michael Freedberg**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In a new "outward-looking policy," 
the new prime minister, Halthazzar 
Verster, who had been interned during 
World War II for his Nazi sympathies 
(along with many of his present cabinet) 
wooed African states to the north. The 
courtship fjnally bore full fruit this sum-
mer with Kamazu " kill-apartheid-with 
kindness" Banda, Prime Minister of 
Malawi. Placing politics above principle, 
he became the first black African head 
of state to visit South Africa. 
His visit took the country by storm. 
Throwing his arms around white cabinet 
ministers, hammering the Organization of 
African Unity for its anti-South African 
stance, fondling blonde-haired babies, 
and speaking in favor of a new rapproche-
ment, he was what the country wanted 
to see. Here was a black leader who had 
finally come around to accepting if not 
the philosophy of apartheid, at least its 
pragmatic value. Banda received standing 
ovations everywhere, most strikingly at 
the University of Stellenbosch, which · 
has been the very bastion of Afrikaner 
nationalism, and has produced every 
single prime minister in South African 
history. 

Here were its students applauding 
a black man; a black man who, as the 
newspapers happily told us, had once 
been imprisoned by the British in East 
Africa for nationalist activities. More 
remarkable was a photograph spewed 
across the front pages of the same news-
papers of Prime Minister Vorster seated 
between two Malawian women at a state 
banquet. A few months earlier a nation-
al scandal had arisen when fourteen 
leading citizens of a small, conservative 
town in solid Afrikaner country had 
been charged under the Immorality 
Act, which holds sexual intercourse 
across the color line illegal, and which 
carries a possible death penalty. The 
mayor commited suicide, and the 
charges were dropped. In this context 
the sight of the symbol of white purity 
bravely chatting with two black women 
was strange indeed. It shocked many. 
A transvaal farmer said. "There are two 
things a white man must never do with 
a kaffir: he must not eat with him and 
he must not have his photograph taken 
with him. A photograph is a kind of 
memorial, not so?" 

As this statement suggests, the Banda 
visit did not indicate any significant at-
titudinal change among White South 
Africans; if anything it provided a vin-
dication of their views. 

In another of those peculiar juxta-
positions which South Africa seems to 
specialize in, the American Charles Diggs 
arrived in the country while Banda was 
wowing his former enemies. Diggs, Lead-
er of the Black Caucus in Congress and 
Chairman of the House Sub-committee 
on Africa, was the first prominent 
American to visit the country since 
Robert Kennedy in 1966. In a statement 
on arrival he accused the South African 
government of ··not having the guts" 
to allow him into Southwest Africa 
(Namibia). The accusation provoked 
swift and predictable reaction from the 
Afrikaner press. Hy is Aanstootlik! 
headlined Rapport, a government weekly: 
''He is Revolting" (loosely translated). If 
this is what we can expect from blacks, 
let them stay at home, ran the argument. 
Diggs provoked the ire of sugar farmers 
when he secretly spoke to their workers, 
irritated opposition politicians by arriving 
late for dinner appointments; annoyed 
the government by refusing to meet with 
cabinet ministers: and cancelled inter-
views with them. It was clear that South 
Africans were prepared to accept only 
those who toed the line. If ever a tourist 
was hated, it was Diggs in South Africa. 

The lack of respect with which 
Charles Diggs viewed South Africa seem-
ed to characterize an increasingly com-
mon attitude among non-whites. At the 
Colored Representative Council. which 
the government had given the Coloreds 
in lieu of parliamentary representation 
or a homeland of their. own, chaos reign-
ed. Packed with government stooges, 
the CRC has limited powers and a lim-
ited budget. At the sessions which I at-
tended even the pro-government men 
found it difficult to defend the govern-
ment. From the opposition (anti-apart-
heid) side came a steady, never-ending 
stream of interjections, insults, com-
ments, and jokes: the chamber was 
transformed into a circus as the speaker 
desperately tried to maintain order. 

Here was a legitimate context in 
which to criticize the government. 

To hear a black politician call the 
"group areas act" (which allows whole-
sale removal of communities to create 
"racial balance) "the most inhuman law 
which has ever been created by any 
government anywhere in the world at 
any time in history" was new in the 
South African context. 

·'If white society has to be protected 
by measures like post office apartheid 
and toilet apartheid, is there any sense 
in saving it?'' they asked. One of the 
more radical council members made the 
point to me that both black and brown 
people are retreating from the whites, 
and are regrouping around the power 
points provided by the separate develop-
ment. 

In many ways the most remarkable 
figure on the South African political 
scene at the moment is Chief Gatsha 
Buthelezi, whose logic is similar to that 
of the Coloreds. When I spoke with him 
. in September he had become the most 
quoted politician in the country, and 
perhaps the most important. As chief 
minister of the Zulu "homeland", he 
had become an outspoken critic of 
apartheid in a novel way: by taking the 
government at its word. If you are really 
serious about our independence, give us 
more land. and arms. he argued. If you 
are having dialog with blacks to the 
north. then you must have dialog with · 
blacks inside the country as well. 

'"When we are promised self-govern-
ment." he told me, "it must be clear 
that we do not expect a sham self-gov-
ernment but the real thing ... we ex-
"' 
pect a sympathetic application of the 
policy from the Afrikaners, who them-
selves claim to have a recent history of 
being oppressed. One of the facts which 
the Afrikaners have to face is that we 
have also contributed towards the pro-
duction of South Africa. We will not 
take independence if it will be in the 
spirit of "since you Wllnt independence 
take it and starve." 

He recognizes that given present 
realities the homelands will never be 
given independence: but at the same time 
by exploiting the institutional structures 
of apartheid he can not only make his 
voice heard legitimately but can also 
push the government into positions it 
would not have taken otherwise. 

Buthelezi too, spoke at Stellenbosch 
University, and received as remarkable a 
reception as did Banda. He told the stu-
dents that •'the success or otherwise of 
all these attempts to promote the home-
land policy will depend on the extent 
to which blacks in urban areas, the most 
articulate group of our people, are 
given security of tenure in the urban 
areas. As long as their future is insecure 
and uncertain. our whole future is in-
secure and uncertain." 

As I hitched through Zululand. an 
isolated. traditional part of the country, 
it became clear that not only did Buth-
elezi have massive and active support 
from blacks, but - more surprisingly 
- he was admired by many whites. A 
charismatic figure, he is South Africa's 
Nyerere or Nkrumah, a new type of 
radical who feeds on the inherent con-
tradictions in the political structure and, 
in the process. widens them. He cannot 
afford to be a Marxist in a society 
) 


--- Page 5 ---

which holds Communism to be the 
worst of all evils; but he has clearly been 
influenced by black radical activity in 
the United States. The day after I saw 
him he spoke at what could only be de-
scribed as South Africa's first black 
power rally at the University of Zululand, 
one of the black colleges. 

Buthelezi's actions and tactics - as 
well as those of other black leaders 
whom he has pushed into a more out-
spoken stance against apartheid - have 
·ted to a re-questioning of government 
policies by all segments of the popula-
tiOn. Throughout my stay in South 
Africa a debate raged as to the future of 
the Colored people, who, because of 
their close cultural ties to the Afrikaner, 
have always occupied a special position 
within the political spectrum. 

:..~ The debate was not restricted to 
politicians, but opened up to intellect-
uals. businessmen. industrialists, and 
the Coloreds themselves. One hundred 
thirty-eight Afrikaner academics pro-
duced a statement calling for "political 
integration" of the Coloreds, while the 
Afrikanese Student bond, a rightist 
student movement, called for the estab-
lishment of a Colored homeland. Even 
the National Party congresses were 
divided on the question. The prime 
minister said the Colored question would 
simply nave to be settled by "our child-
ren." Because the resolution of this 
question is central to the success of all 
governmental policy, it has prompted a 
rethinking of further questions related 
to apartheid. 

The fact is that the nationalist lead-
ership seems no longer to have the intel-
lectual or political ability to resolve 
the evident inconsistencies. As Afrikan-
er nationalism becomes a dying force 
(if it is not dead already), allegiance to 
the party is showing signs of weakening. 
The recent Transvaal party congress com-
plained fewer youths were attending 
church and party rallies, and even 
boeremusiek was losing its grip among 
the Afrikaner young. Even the official 
opposition, a dead and redundant 
political party, made gains in this year's 
general elections for the first time since 
1948. 

**Death of a (Cold) Warrior**
**Author: Gaddis Smith**
**Page number(s): 6**

. . . sadness that a man of such extaordinary 
intellectual ability, and the finest master of 
the English language to serve as Secretary of 
State since Jefferson, should have .applied his 
talents to waging a form of war rather than 
searching for peace. 

Dean Acheson, who died October 12 at 
78, was the fiercest of American leaders 
during the formative years of the Cold 
War. As Under Secretary of State and 
Secretary of State for President Harry 
S. Truman, he was (to use the arrogant 
but perfectly accurate title of his mem-
oirs) Present at the Creation of the 
basic policies which guided American 
foreign policy for a quarter of a century 
In most instances he was principal author 
of those policies. 

Should we view his career with the 
unstinting admiration naturally expressed 
by his old boss, Harry Truman, and by 
President Nixon? Or with condemna-
tion for his militant role in perpetuating 
the Cold War? More appropriately, 
we should feel sadness that a man of 
such extraordinary intellectual ability, 
and the finest master of the English 
language to serve as Secretary of State 
since Jefferson should have applied his 
talents to waging a form of war rather 
than searching for peace. One can argue 
that Soviet behavior when Acheson was 
Secretary of State left him and the 
American Government no alternatives, 
although even on that I do not agree. 

The greater tragedy is that what were 
at best temporary necessities became 
permanent policies; spreading insecurity, 
suffering, and war through a generation. 

The obituary writers have listed 
Acheson's achievements. In 1946 he ad-
vised President Truman to take a tough 
and threatening stand toward the Soviet 
Union's continued presence in northern 
Iran. In 1947 he was the most import-
ant contributor to the formulation of 
the Truman Doctrine, which promised 
American support for any regime any-
where in the world threatened by in-
ternal or external Communist attack. 
Also in 194 7. he coordinated various 
strands of thought in the American 
Government which ted to the Marshall 
Plan for the economic reconstruction of 
Western Europe with American aid. 

In 1948. momentarily a private citizen, 
he was a leader in the effort to persuade 
the American public and Congress to ac-
cept the Marshall Plan. 

In 1948, as Secretary of State, he 
negotiated the North Atlantic Treaty 
with the other member nations and with 
the American Congress and won approv-
al for the rearmament of Western Eurooe 
by the United States. He then encourag-
ed the formation of the West German 
government system. of European defense 
against the Soviet Union.He learned with 
dismay that the Soviet Union had ex-
ploded an atomic device; advocated the 
development of the hydrogen bomb; 
watched unhappily as the Chinese gov-
ernment won control of mainland China; 
kept foreign policy in balance white the 
nation fought a costly limited war in 
Korea without abandoning Europe as 
the area of primary concern; supported 
the French colonial war in Indochina; 
sought to mediate between declining 
British power and strident nationalism 
in the Middle East; neglected latin 
America; endured accusations of treason 
from irresponsible domestic critics; and 
at all times fenced warily with Moscow 
in the conviction that the nation's sec-
urity would be preserved by the creation 
of positions of strength against the 
Soviet Union, but never by genuine 
negotiation. 

Acheson looked on the Soviet Union 
as an implacable and permanently 
hostile enemy, a true successor to Nazi 
Germany as a threat to the free world. 
For him Western relations with the 
Soviet Union were a zero-sum game. He 
applied a simple test to every American 
move. That which strengthened the 
United States against the Soviet Union 
was good; that which simultaneously 
weakened the Soviet Union was very 
good. That which weakened the United 
States was bad; and that which simul-
taneously strengthened the Soviet Union 
was disastrous. It was inconceivable to 
him that any development which was 
of advantage to the Soviet Union could 
also be of advantage to the United 
States. His favorite slogan was "negotia-
tion from strength." The slogan was 
misleading. He believed that the United 
States should never enter a negotiation 
from a position of weakness. On the 
other hand, when the United States was 
stronger than the Soviet Union, negoti-
ation was unnecessary. 

He once likened the Soviet Union to 
a force of nature, a great river flowing 
inexorably on its course. You cannot 
reason with a river, he said. You can ap-
ply superior strength to contain and 
divert the flow but you can never reason 
with it. Acheson believed that settle-
ments with the Soviet Union (for ex-
ample, the lifting of the Bertin blockade 
in 1949 and the armistice in Korea in 
1953) were the result, not of genuine 
negotiation, but of superior American 
strength. The Soviet Union simply re-
cognized that its power position on 
these issues had become too costly to 
maintain. The facade of ni!9Qtiation 
was erected as a face-saving device, but 
that was all. In a later year he argued 
that only superior military strength 
would solve the Cuban missile crisis. 
He believed that President Kennedy 
made a serious mistake by not bombing 
the missile installations. Similarly he 
believed that a demonstration of Ameri-
can military superiority was a pre-
requisite for a successful solution of the 
Vietnam problem. 

"He believed that it was impossible 
for the United States to have too much 
military strength. He was impatient 
with those who had qualms about the 
size of the American thermonuclear 
arsenal. He was skeptical about the pos-
sibility of international control of 
atomic weapons. 

Acheson did not believe in the dem-
ocratic control of foreign policy. He 
considered the press a mischievous and 
irresponsible institution, Congress ill-
informed and narrow-minded, public 
opinion fickle and unreliable. In his 
ideal world great decisions of foreign 
policy would be made by a small elite 
of highly intelligent and highly trained 
professionals to whom God in His in-
finite wisdom had imparted the necessary 
vision and intelligence. 

He considered the United Nations a 
disorderly and inconvenient body which 
excited Utopian expectations on the part 


**Title: Dean Acheson and the Cold War**
**Author: Mr. Smith**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
of the naive and on occasion gave to 
weakling nations an unjustified voice in 
decisions which would have to be car-
ried out by others. 

Acheson's heritage illuminates his 
policies. His father was a British Army 
Officer before becoming an Episcopal 
clergyman and eventually Bishop of 
Connecticut. His mother was Canadian. 
The British Empire of the late nineteenth 
,~. century was the standard of excellence 
by which he judged American behavior. 
He saw that Empire bringing law and 
order and economic stability to much of 
the world. He saw the United States of 
the mid-twentieth century carrying 
Britain's former burdens in backward 
areas and in holding the world balance 
of power as Britain had once done (al· 
though to Acheson, "balance of power" 
really meant predominance.) He weighed 
the importance of nations by the test of 
economic and military power. 

He felt little sympathy for the new 
and undeveloped nations of what came 
to be called "the Third World." He gave 
no more than lip service to the ideals 
of self-determination and national in· 
dependence. Some people, he believe~ were 
too inefficient or corrupt to deserve in-
dependence. He preferred the crisp milit-
arism of Pakistani leaders to the senti-
1mental moralism of Prime Minister 
Nehru and other Indians. 

In early 1950, Acheson briefly en-
tertained the expectation that Com-
munist China and the Soviet Union 
would have a falling out and would thus 
balance each other to the advantage of 
the West. He said then that the worst 
. thing the United States could do would 
be to engage in some foolish adventure 
which would divert on to its own should· 
ers the na(ural hostility which the 
Chinese felt against foreign encroach-
ment, hostility which deserved to be 
directed against Soviet territorial am-
bitions on the Chinese-Russian border. 
But this attitude was expressed before 
the Chinese entry into the Korean War. 
He was incapable of seeing that the 
Chinese came into the Korean War in 
defense of their own security. He be-
lieved that they, like the North Koreans, 
were acting exclusively as puppets of 
Moscow. After the Chinese entry into 
the Korean War he became as implacable 
in his opposition to China as he was to 
Russia. He abandoned his former theory 
and adhered to the myth of the mono-
lith of international Communism just 
as fervently as did his successor as Sec-
retary of State, John Foster Dulles. 

In the 1940s he was mildly critical 
of French colonial policy in Indochina, 
but he rapidly came to support the 
French military effort there. All the 
later assumptions which guided Ameri-
can policy in Vietnam were developed 
during the Truman Administration under 
Acheson's presiding genius: the belief 
that the Viet_ Minh, later the North 
Vietnamese, were tools of the inter-
national Communist conspiracy; the 
belief that Vietnam was a key to all of 
Asia (if it fell to Communism so would 
the rest of the continent followed by 
the Middle East and even Europe) ; the 
belief in a spec1a1 American talent to 
teach the Vietnamese people to want 
what America wanted and to fight 
for it; and the assumption that the war 
in Indochina could be won on American 
terms if enough military power and 
political ingenuity were applied. 

For the last eighteen years of his 
life Acheson combined his-first career, 
the practice of law, with a third career 
as a man of letters and public oracle on 
international affairs. He became an in-
creasingly outspoken exponent of rigid 
Cold War attitudes, condemning Willi 
Brandt for seeking an accommodation 
between We.st Germany and the Soviet 
Union; lamenting the declining import-
ance and militancy of NATO; praising 
the roles of Portugal, Rhodesia, and 
South Africa in Africa; supporting the 
anti-ballistic missile system; criticising 
President John F. Kennedy in retro-
spect as too weak for the responsibilities 
he faced;oend, above all, supporting the 
American war in Vietnam witflout 
question, although in 1968 he did 
raise some doubts about the ethicacy of 
the American bombing campaign. 

Other men of his generation, Averell 
Harriman, for example. continued their 
education and changed with a changing 
world. Acheson did not. He died in 1971 
with the same attitudes that he brought 
so staunchly to bear as a warrior in the 
Truman era. Measured by how clearly he 
articulated and carried out his policies 
he can be called the greatest Secretary 
of State in American history. Measured 
by the value of his assumptions as a 
permanent guide for American foreign 
policy, the verdict is different. Like the 
government of which he was such an im-
portant part, he acted with more courage 
than wisdom, more a"ogant self.·con-
fidence than toleration and understand-
ing. * 
Mr. Smith is a Professor of History. 
He teaches American diplomatic history 
and has just completed a study of Dean 
Acheson as Secretary of State. 


**Title: "Good therapy" in a "cowardly whorehouse"**
**Author: John Arlow**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

"Good therapy" in a "cowardly whorehouse" 
John Arlow 
Perhaps the stifled souls of New York find in it 
some kind of unholy sanctuary. Walter Kerr, for in-
stance, calls it good therapy (though Stanley Kauffman, 
demurring, says It's a "cowardly whorehouse." It is 
The James Joyce Memorial Liquid Theatre, is current-
ly at New York's Guggenheim Museum and defmes it-
self as, "an alternative to the cold, harsh urban envir-
onment." Certainly this is nothing to be sneezed at. 
The price of admission, which is comparatively stiff, 
entitles you first of all to a nylon laundry bag. Into this, 
you place the shoes, wallets, watches, and other cum-
bersome tokens (not, however, your clothes) of the 
ordered, worldly realms to be left behind. 

You recline in an inflatable armchair, your feet dug 
into fake-fur bath mat, while the company creeps about, 
mimicking exotic bird calls. 

A young actress bends over and whispers in your 
ear, ("We're ready for the green bag people" ) and you 
move, with a dozen other members o t the audience, to 
an alcove bathed in light-bulb p\nk. 

''We're going to play a few sensitivity games to get 
to know one another," says the group leader, producing 
a beach ball. What follows is a series of acting warm-ups, 
of the type codified by Viola Spolin, subsequently stol-
en by group therapists, and eroticised by the Esalen 
Institute. In one game, the ball is passed around the 
circle, and starting with the letter "a" each individual 
thinks of a word beginning with the letter that falls to 
him. At first, this results in General Electric College 
Bowl tension, but the answers soon become spontan-
eous and stunningly unpredictable - the Le Drugstore 
hippy with forty dollar velvet jeans from Blooming-
dales gets the letter "1" and says " love," and the guy 
who's just come in from San Francisco to rig a light-
show surprises everyone with his remarkable associa-
tion for the letter "f." 

"We've just been told that they're ready for the 
people with green bags," the leader announces, and you 
are herded down to the basement theatre lounge where 
you check your laundry bags. Tea is next - half a cup 
(they're going to move you out in a few seconds) 
and again you wait on plastic blow-up chairs, relax-
ing in polyester luxury and imagining the sensual de-
lights ahead .... The Maze is next. 

I had gotten my complimentary tickets and the back-
ground story on the Liquid Theatre earlier in the day 
from an actress in the company who had gone to drama 
school with my companion a few years before. When 
she greeted us at the door, she was all smiley and zaftig-
bouncy. overjoyed to see someone from the stable past. 
(Actors have to be mobile to keep up with the rapidly-
changing trends these days; they tend to lose their 
roots.) 

The Liquid Theatre evolved in a similiar atmosphere 
of instability. When its parent repertory company had 
director problems and found itself without a play to 
present for a scheduled, opening date in mid-season, the 
group threw together a minstrel show - very hip and 
cool and with-it - which bombed. It bombed, the com-
pany decided, because the audience was not ... warmed-
up for the experience. To remedy this, the actors began 
the performance by playing theatre games with the 
$9.25 plus the agenbite of i'nwit 
spectators, and the result was overwhelming. The min-
strel show was dropped, the concept grew, and Liquid 
Theatre became the hottest ticket in Southern Califor-
nia. 

" Husbands and wives came to abandon each other 
and find someone else," the girl said, laughing ruefully. 
" We were sold out weeks in advance." A producer be-
came interested in the group and brought them to New 
York fo r a trial period. A score of dancers was hired 
and trained to accommodate the anticipated crowds. 
This, of course, is only a beginning. If success is forth-
coming, the Liquid Theatre format will be franchised. 
like MacDonalds' hamburgers, across the country. 
That's when the money will come in. In the mean-
time. the performers are getting room and board and 
something like five dollars a day. " It mounts up." the 
actress said ··or course I'd rather be using my training 
for legit shows or movies. but in the interim ... " 

"But how do you feel about touching all these 
strangers every night?'' my friend asked. 

"Oh. it's all right, it's really not that bad. Once in 
a while I get a few grabbers." 

Well. I'll be good, I thought, as I waited in my in-
flatable chair before entering the maze, I'll be good and 
try not to grab anybody. 

The empty teacups were collected. and one by o ne the 
audience was led out of the waiting room. A tall young 
man who looked as if he'd just walked off the chorus 
line of Applause took my hands and hissed. "Clowse 
yer eyes and trussst me!" 

And so it begins. There's no denying that it's fun. 
As you move from hand to hand in the eyelid darkness, 
the actors snuggle up to you, waft incense toward your 
nose. stuff grapes into your mouth. hum into your ears, 
draw lace across your face. and rock you in a cradle of 
what Abbie Hoffman calJs "cuddly humanity." When 
you're told to open your eyes. you've got your arms 
around two Zefferelli children who say in unison. 
"You are now entering Magic Land. Make it whatever 
you want it to be." 

In Magic Land· the theatre games get more intimate. 
like find a partner. have him (or her) close his (or her) 
eyes and lead him (or her) around the room. Get your 
partner to touch things. the beard on that fat actor 
· 
freak who's dressed in a velour monk's robe. or the 
fabric of the double-knit jacket that poor Dr. Rosen is 
wearing as he stands, alienated and disgusted. in an 
empty corner with his wife. 

This is all very entertaining (although I did hear some 
crassly materialistic people object to the S9.25 ticket 
price). but by this time many members of the audience 
have had their sensory circuits so overloaded that they 
want just to sit down and talk. Many people improvise 
their own games. of the sort that were seen in the box 
scats of the Italian Opera in Balzac's time and may still 
be observed today at college mixers. The actors en-
courage the audience in this activity; get to know each 
other. they say. 

But wait a minute. Actors? Audience? Certainly 
this isn't radical theater talk? We know. after all. that 
These Divisions Must Cease To Exist Since We Are All 
Creating A Group Environmental Experience Together. 


Maybe it's that the Liquid Theatre wants to· show its 
independence from any rigid theory, because the next 
thing that happens is that the audience is seated on the 
floor while the actors put on a dumb-show. 

In this mime, the players metamorphose into ani-
mals that perhaps were left out in the rain when Noah 
Sills took his Story Theatre ark to Broadway. The 
beasts create an apocalyptic situation; a solemn moment 
of silence follows, and then comes a reconstruction of 
the cosmos in the form of a sort of Adam and Eve 
couple. Adam and Eve realize profound truths about 
each other along the lines of "oh-you 've-got-two-of 
tlwse-and-l've-got-one-ofthese, "and then a band ap-. 
pears and everybody is pulled up for a fertility dance 
cum-hora. I got a silly notion at this point that I had 
fallen into a concentration camp for New York intel-
lectuals, and that the showers would be our next man-
datory activity. 

But I was wrong. More theatre games are played, a 
few Hindu mantras are chanted, and then a second set 
of dancing ends the two-and-a-half hour performance. 
I smiled at one of the actresses as she handed me 
my bag. and she smiled at me. Thank you for flying 
with us. Have a good day: and do come again. With 
another show to do that evening, she really couldn't 
stop to talk. I slipped on my shoes and walked to the 
exit. There was. I realized, something sour about Liquid 
Theatre. 

Ordinary theatre depends on a shared set of pre-
tenses between actors and audience. We know that what 
we watch isn't real, but we agree to accept it, for a 
time, as reality. The Liquid Theatre pretends to give 
us more, to engage us directly and deeply. The ·result 
is that when the illusion is dropped, as in the end it in-
evitably must be, we feel betrayed, mocked, and made 
fools of, because we have had the trust we willingly 
give to the theater cruely abused. 

There is nothing necessarily wrong with radical 
theatre. Dionysus in '69, a few seasons back, was a play 
about the loss of-emotional control that worked a 
similar loss of actor-audience distance into the story 
line with devastating power. 

But The James Joyce Memorial Liquid Theatre has 
no such unity or purpose. It has nothing to do with 
James Joyce either, except, perhaps, that one feels the 
agenbite of inwit for having attended. 
Jon Arlow is an undergraduate in Jonathan Edwards 
College. 

**Title: PRICES SOAR, BUYERS SORE; COW JUMPS OVER THE MOON**
**Author: Jerry Adler**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
PRICES SOAR, 
BUYERS SORE; 
COW JUMPS 
OVER THE MOON 
Hard times at the copy desk of New York's Picture Newspaper 
The desk is large and U-shaped, suitable 
for answering telethon calls, maybe, or 
for assembling bomb-sights. You and 
your co-workers take your seats around 
the outer rim at two o'clock in the afternoon. You wait. The action dribbles in 
at first, and then, for the next six or 
seven hours it overwhelms you. Fidgeting like delinquent children in the principal's office, you play a difficult, nit-picking game,concerned largely with 
out-witting libel lawyers. It's called 
copyreading. 

A hawk-faced man called Chilly sits 
above you and broods or barks orders 
like a foreman in a steel mill. He hands 
you a story marked for a No.5 headline; 
three lines of twelve counts each, and • 
you pounce on it greedily_ You think and 
then write slowly: "Mines Bureau/ Held 
Negligent/ In Fatal Blast. "You begin a 
second story and Chilly interrupts; his 
head for the mines story goes this way: 
"House Probe/ Hits Mines Unit/ In Fatal 
Blast... " There's plenty of room, he explains, to add the fact that a House subcommittee is doing the charging. Your 
next head (police, acting on tips, arrest 
three for selling drugs) reads: "Tips Help 
Nip/ 3 Drug Dealers. " Chilly stops; yes, 
cold. Anyone who's seen a 1930's newspaper movie knows you don't convict 
people before their trial. He changes the 
bottom line to "3 on Drug Rap. " 

Such is the work at the copy desk of 
New York's Picture Paper, and from the 
men who work there come some of the 
shortest, most splendid flights of fancy 
any newspaper anywhere serves up for 
its readers. 

It isn't a glamorous job. Certainly if 
you learned your journalism at the Yale 
Daily, you 'II be happier tracking down 
the latest wrinkle in women's lib for 
Time-Life, or stalking the ghetto schools 
with The Times' Joseph Lelyveld. But 
if you've spent say, two years as a copy 
boy and another six nursing your beer 
belly and sharpening your eye at the 
Paterson Call, you can reach your 
apotheosis at the dirty steel desk in one 
corner of The Daily News' vast and untidy seventh floor city room. Such men 
can glance down a column of close gray 
type and spot a mis-placed comma as 
surely as if it were printed in fluorescent 
green. 

Copyreading is a curious kind of backwater skill. Eternally in demand, it rarely commands much respect even from 
the people who practice it. "It's a dirty 
goddamn business," one of the temporary readers at the News told me, "and 
if I had a kid who went to Yale and 
wanted to go into it I'd put his head 
against a wall and beat some goddamn 
sense into him. " 

Of the million decisions made each 
day at a daily paper, the copy desk 
makes the 900,000 least significant 
ones. If the day's story is about air pollution, the city desk decides how it 
should be covered, the reporter arranges 
the facts and puts them into words, the 
news desk decides how much play to 
give the story, and the copy desk decides 
whether to use an "f" or a "ph" in 
"sulfur dioxide." With the exception of 
business and sports news, the copy desk 
has the final say on every word that runs 
in the paper, from the lead story on down 
to the pollution "airdex." 

Copyreaders are there because reporters are largely incapable of exercising critical judgement about their own 
work. They can't spell, either. Give a 
reporter free rein and nine times out of 
ten he'll write something like: "The 
sharp increase in crimes of violence was 
attributed to an increase in drug abuse 
by top police officials." A copyreader 
must catch something like that, because 
its next stop is the composing room, 
where it gets cast in hot lead, plated 
onto a thick sheet of spongy cardboard 
and sent forth, two million strong, to 
show up a month later at the bottom of 
a column in The New Yorker. 

Then there are the technical rules 
of style, like when to capitalize "boy 
scout" and whether to abbreviate 
"East" or "west" in street addresses. 
The important thing isn't necessarily 
to conform to common sense, which 
usually has nothing to say about whether 
"Mr. Smith" (Times style) or just 
"Smith" (News style) in second reference is the preferred usage: The important thing is to be consistent, even consistent in absurdity. The cumulative effect of doing it differently every time is 
unsettling to readers ... one of the unheralded reasons that you always feel 
you've skipped a paragraph when you 
read a story in The Post. 

The News runs a shirt-sleeved kind 
of desk, full of real newspaper machismo, 
where one's proudest boast is that he's 
a "working stiff," and the competition 
for overtime is now and then fierce. 
These heavyset guys from Staten Island 
and Flushing know more about the English language than any of those book 
editors from Amherst having lunch at 
the Italian Pavilion, no question, but 
when Chilly sends the self-respecting 
News copy-reader off for lunch at six 
o'clock in the evening, he heads for a 
corned beef sandwich and three beers 
at the Louis East bar, on Second Avenue 
and 41st street. Nor does anyone on the 
desk talk about how much more fun it 
must be to interview Joseph Gallo than 
to copper-rivet an "alleged" to every 
phrase that crops up in apposition to 
his name in the resulting story. Still, 
there are some signs that the readers 
now and again question whether the rewards of the job, including salaries that 
reach into the mid teens or higher, really 
make it worth it. One sign is the extremely high turnover rate. Because people are 
constantly leaving for a better deal and 
because it takes The News longer to hire 
a single $300-a-week copyreader than 
it takes the average college to select a 
president, half the people on the desk on 
a given Saturday will be temporaries, 
moonlighting from their regular jobs or 
picking up a few odd dollars between 
jobs. For a newspaper, a notoriously insensitive category of employer, The 
News seems curiously aware of the need 
to compensate copyreaders for the 
anonymity and frustrations of their 
work: by putting their names in two-inch high letters on the backs of their 
chairs, for instance ... a distinction 
denied reporters. More concretely, every 
week some $75 gets divided among the 
authors of the six or seven best headlines of the week, and a good copyreader can make a steady fifteen or 
twenty dollars that way. 

Headline writing is what The News 
pays you for, really. If you don't read 
The News much you possibly have the 
idea that it's just like The Post, with its 
"$$"whenever it can't fit "Money" onto 
a line and its irritating habit of using 
"OK'd" when something is approved 
and "KO'd" when it's voted down. But 
The News is sui generis in headlines. 
Test yourself. Write a three-line, one-column head (twelve characters and 
spaces per line) for a story about a 
girl who felt sorry for the inmates of 
a northern Italian jail and rented a room 
across the street to perform a striptease for them. Assuming you don't 
break any of the basic rules of copyreading, you might have come up with 
something like: "Girl Strips/ For Prisoners/ In N. Italy. "This is a competent 
headline, and if The Times ran the story 
at all it was probably underneath something bland like that. The News had a 
transcendent headline that day; it read: 
"She Offers/ Cons Tease/ & Sympathy," 
or a story about a jump in beef prices 
(this is a News classic): "Prices Soar, 
Buyers Sore/ Cow Jumps Over the 
Moon. "An oil slick threatens Coney 
Island? "Bad Tidings Drift Up For N.Y. 
Bathers," A girl is born after a record 
13-month pregnancy? "She Was A 
Baby in Waiting. "Of course. 

The News takes intense and personal 
pride in it all. "We do some fantastic 
things with heads," modestly admits day 
slotman Chilly Allan, He's called a slotman because he sits in the middle of the 
"U", in the slot between the two arms. 
No one seems to know why he's called 
Chilly, but the name is appropriate 
enough ... he's been a newspaperman (no 
one at The News thinks of himself as a 
"journalist") for 40 years or so, and 
he's skinny and sardonic like David 
Brinkley left out in the sun too long. 

Chilly is one of the top men in the 
country in his particular job, which on a 
brisk day demands the powers of concentration ordinarily required only of 
astronauts docking in space. He rereads 
every piece of copy that crosses the 
desk, every head written there gets 
checked by him for style, appropriateness and length, and many of those he 
doesn't like he re-writes himself. 

The routine at the copy desk varies 
little from day to day. The first hour is 
slow, maybe Chilly flips an early proof 
of the editorial page at you to check and 
that's all you do for a while. If you're 
new you may question the self-conscious capital letters in references to 
Eastern Europe (which News editorials 
solemnly refer to as "Captive Nations") 
but that particular battle between the 
desk and the editorial writers has been 
fought out long ago, and Chilly says to let 
it go that way. It's helpful at times like 
that to consider that the news staff is 
usually in a kind of guerilla dialectic 
with management anyhow. Late in June 
someone tacked to a city room wall 
copies of a News editorial as it appeared 
in the first edition and as it ran in subsequent editions around the time of the 
Pentagon papers. The original version 
read, in part: "The Times decided it had 
a professional duty to publish large 
wads of the stuff; a decision on which we 
do not see how The Times can be faulted. In a free country, a newspaper is 
supposed to act like a newspaper." In 
later editions, it was changed to read 
simply: "The Times decided it had a 
professional duty to publish large wads 
of the stuff, apparently in the belief that 
it did not threaten the security of our 
country or endanger the life of any 
soldier." Above this someone had scrawled: "We believe the phrase is: 100% 
chicken shit." 

Chilly pushes across a handful of 
short stories torn from the UPI wires 
and marked for the "In The Nation" 
or "In The World" sections. Actually 
they were long stories when they came 
over the wires, and tomorrow's Times 
quite probably will give each of them a 
full column on an inside page. But at 
New York's Picture Newspaper the telegraph desk clips and pastes together 
three or four sentences and runs them 
into one long paragraph. They're a 
nuisance because the copy comes off 
the UPI wire all in caps and you've got 
to mark where you really want the 
composing room to use upper case 
letters. The News' style book, which 
should guide you on this, is no help 
at all: one of the slimmest in the business, it devotes half a page to an admonition not to use "pretty" in a picture 
caption unless the subject really is pretty (" 'Comely, attractive' will often serve 
the purpose ... "), but the information 
that's really important for copyreaders 
to have, like whether to capitalize 
"post office" in second references, or 
which Oriental names have the surname 
first, is left to the reader's imagination. 
Fortunately, Chilly makes it his business 
to keep all these rules in his head. 


**Title: Can the Rep bring off an Ibsen play that's beyond understanding?**
**Author: Lawrence Eilenberg**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
t 
Near the end of the first act of Ibsen's 
When We Dead A waken, Rubek, the 
sculptor-hero, says to Irene, his former 
model and inspiration, "There is something hidden behind everything you say." 
He is calling her a mystic or a symbolist 
at best, and we might complain that it is 
yet another example of the artist pre-
empting the critic's role. Ibsen's play 
resounds with this sort of vague and 
final sounding criticism, and rightfully 
so. for it is one of that rare and difficult 
breed, the artistic creation in which the 
true artist confronts himself and his 
work. This type of work is necessarily 
self-critical. and in the case of Ibsen's 
When We Dead A waken the complexity 
is compounded by its status as a last 
play. a final work. Ibsen subtitled the 
play. "A Dramatic Epilogue," and 
though he planned to write more, he 
.-did see the drama as a summation of the 
series of plays which began with A Doll's 
House. When We Dead A waken is in the 
grand tradition of Shakespeare's ro-
rpances and Beethoven's late quartets, 
and it is equally difficult to grasp. 


In his seminal essay. "No More 
Masterpieces." Antonio Artaud wrote, 
·"If ... a contemporary public does not 
understand Oedipus Rex, I shall make 
bold to say that it is the fault of Oedi-
pus Rex and no t of the public." "No 
more masterpieces!" has since become 
the ral.ying cry of too many self-pro-
claimed disciples of Artaud, and the 
Yale Repertory Theatre, itself hardly 
insensitive to Artaud, has wisely added 
"Know more masterpieces," as well. 
Ibsen's When We Dead A waken. the 
play which opened this season at the 
Yale Rep. is unquestio"nably a master-
piece. It also will not be understood by 
the contemporary public. Yet I shall 
make bold to modify Artaud and say 
that it may be the fault of the play, 
but it is certainly its purpose as well. 


Were the questions Ibsen raises under-
standable or easily articulated, there 
would have been little point to the writ-
ing of the play and virtually none to 
performing it. 


The setting of the piece is a spa, 
which for the European imagination 
(as we know from Alain Resnais, Fred-
erico Fellini, and Thomas Mann) has 
precious little to do with health. Steve 
Rubin ·s decor is minimal, yet evocative. 
A rear wall of polished wood· panels calls 
to mind Danish modern/do-it-yourself 
sauna. Scandianvia at its most bour-
geois. A hovering parachute serves as 
umbrella. mountain, and symbol of an 
uncertain stasis. Two tables and a few 
chairs, sculpted either grotesquely or 
primitively. complete the scene. And 
in this scene, the grotesque (the artist) 
tries to come to terms with the prim-
itive {life) - or shall we say that the 
primitive artist tries one last time to 
face his grotesque life. 


Rubek, the sculptor, is old and 
famous and has returned to Norway 
after a long self-imposed exile. (The 
parallel to Ibsen himself is obvious, 
though the Yale Rep is perhaps too 
helpful in making up Rubek to look 
like the playwright.) His wife, Maia, is 
younger than he, uninterested in his 
work. and inadequate as a companion. 
At the mountain resort, Rubek meets 
Irene. the model for his greatest work. 
whom he had rejected in love and life 
and used solely for his art. Both the 
woman and the art she had inspired in 
Rubek have become corrupted since 
she left him years ago. Irene is now mad 
and is followed everywhere by a Nun 
who watches her closely in silence. 
Finally. there is Squire Ulfheim, a bear 
hunter, with "not a trace of the artist 
in him." Ulfheim attracts Maia with his 
artlessness; Rubek holds Irene with the 
memory of his art. Both couples ascend 
the mountain. one in search of fleshy 
game and fleshly pleasure, the other 
for a more spiritual fulfillment. A storm 
arises; the hunter and the young woman 
descend to safety while the artist and 
his inspiration climb higher to their 
dream and doom. 


The human situation is necessarily 
schematic, for the characters of this 
play are not characters at all, but ab-
stractions. The relationships among 
them are more like the principles, 
theories, and postulates whjch link 
ideas than the emotions which serve to 
tie human beings. All of which leads to 
the central problem of the current pro-
duction, which is the awesome task of 
finding an acting style for this problem-
atic play. When We Dead A waken reads 
well. but then so does Either/Or. In the 
Ibsen, unlike the Kierkegaard, some 
difficult philosophic and aesthetic no-
tions must be presented by human 
agents and the results, at least for this 
production by the Yale Rep, are uneven. 


Tom Haas, who has directed tlus pro-
duction, seems to have failed to exercise 
his proper and necessary directorial con-
trol. Previous productions by Haas ( Woy-
zeck, Donner. Subject to Fits) have all 
been characterized by singleness of vis-
ion. consistency of style, and most of all 
by a strong point of view toward the 
plays themselves. In Wizen We Dead A-
waken. which by its very abstract nature 
needs this input, the actors have been 
left to find their own styles by their own 
devices, and they don't seem to have 
consulted with each other. 


David Hurst is a powerful Rubek, a 
pleasure to watch and to hear. When 
he speaks of the torment of the artist, 
we can believe that he knows what he is 
saying, for as an actor Mr. Hurst is an 
artist indeed. During Act II of the play, 
Irene dismisses Rubek as a poet. Hurst 
has caught the truth of her condemna-
tion and used it in his characterization. 
Though Ibsen wrote When We Dead A-
waken in prose, the language, according 
to Michael Meyer, his biographer and 
translator. is a sort of heightened poetic 
prose. Although the language of Michael 
Feingold's new translation is not par-
ticularly heightened (it is at times 
actually quite prosaic) Hurst plays for 
as much poetry as he can get from it. 
By stressing this highly theatrical trait 
in the complex Rubek. Hurst grounds 
the abstraction "Artist'' in a dramatical-
ly and literarily recognizeable reality, 
which is nevertheless not so idiosyn-
cratic as to preclude the more abstract 
and symbolic play of ideas. He is neith-
er too specific nor too general in his 
acting; he allows us the freedom not 
to understand in a meaningful way. 


The two women. on the other hand. 
demonstrate the two directions in 
which the acting of this play can easily 
fall down, and in this case does. Nancy 
Wickwire, as Irene, has failed to deal 
with the abstract quality of the role 
she plays. In her extremes of mannered 
madness. she seems obsessed most of 
all not with art or love or life. but with 
the craft of acting. Her self-conscious 
twitching is all too reminiscent of the 
bravado performances in Peter Brook's 
production of Marat/Sade. She offers us 
a complete surface. the well-made char-
acter with motivations and explanations. 
suffering perhaps most of all from the 
fact that there is no one else on stage to 
whom she can relate. no one in her play. 
We have nothing to penetrate in her 
Irene. no distance to overcome. We un-
derstand her all too well. 


Sarah Albertson. as Maia. does not 
ground herself anywhere. While Miss 
Wickwire is too specific. Miss Albertson 
is too general. She speaks her lines as if 
they were coming from somewhere out-
side her body rather than from within. 
Almost as a marionette. she makes her-
self simply another voice in Ibsen's inter-
nal debate. and wh1le this may be intel-
lectually and interpretively correct. it 
does not play. 


Stephen Mendillo ·s Squire Ulfheim looks right but sounds wrong. Mr. 
Mendillo continues to be an extremely 
strong presence on the stage, but in 
this production he seems unsure of what 
he wants to do with his actual words. 
One is tempted to blame the director: 
some more direction would surely have 
made a great difference. Carmen de 
Lavallade is fine as the Nun, properly 
chilling and mysterious, with just the 
right amount of float to her steps. She 
and Miss Albertson, the program informs 
us. will be alternating the roles of Maia 
and the Nun. 


A word about children and animals, 
of which there are both in this pro-
duction. With few except ions, neither 
ever reach the level of true profession-
alism in acting and are usually painful 
injections of amateurism into a profes-
sional production. In this Yale Rep 
production of When We Dead A waken. 
we worry about them, and this concern 
distracts us from the play. Neither 
children nor dogs were really necessary. 
except perhaps as auxiliary props or 
as illustrations to throwaway lines. They 
could have been, more judiciously, cut 
altogether. 


While acting is the central problem 
of this production - and it is a big one 
-the Yale Repertory presentation of 
When We Dead A lvaken should not be 
dismissed or disregarded because of it. 
This is a rare opportunity to see a mast-
erpiece which is not often performed. 
The very mounting of this play is a 
laudable act in itself. and although the 
translation is not brilliant, it is also not 
castrating. Ibsen comes through, and 
the Ibsen who does will be a revelation 
to those who know him from Hedda 
Gabler. This is the Socratic Ibsen, con-
stantly questioning himself, able to do 
so at the very height of his accomplish-
ment. There is none of the brash moral 
certainty of Peer Gynt or the consid-
ered opinionating of Ghosts about 
this play. When We Dead A waken has 
no message. It simply poses the most 
fundamental questions. What does it 
mean to be a man? ... to be alive? ... 
to die? 


'·You don't really have a clear idea 
what it's like inside an artist's mind." 
says Rubek to Maia in the middle of the 
second act. She replies. ''My God. I 
don't even know what it's like inside my 
own mind." Ibsen embraces the at-
titudes of Rubek and Maia. of Irene 
and even Ulfheim. He knows his mind 
and yet he does not: it is his knowledge 
and his ignorance which he bares to us 
in When We DeaJ A waken. It is a wis-
dom which knows the foolishness of 
answers. 


.. We only see what's wrong with our 
lives." says Irene. "when we dead awaken." 
And what we see, she tells us, is that we 
were never alive. Ibsen originally con-
cluded the play with the artist and his 
former model reaching the mountain 
peak in the midst of a violent storm. He 
ch~ nged that ending to have them die in 
an avalanche. Perhaps he was hoping to 
metaphorically restore life through 
death. but the metaphorical resolution 
is lost in the attempt to transfer it to a 
reality. The play remains beautifully 
beyond understanding. 


Larry t:ilenberg is a Ph.D. candidate in 
theater his"tory and did his undergraduate 
work at Comell University.


**Title:  A Post-Primary Report**
**Author:  Unattributed (Likely by a member of the Parker campaign, indicated at the end.)**
**Page number(s): 15**

continued from page 2 
ran for alderman on the Parker ticket 
in one ward. A local plumber was re-
cruited to run for alderman in another 
. neighborhood. 


Mr. Mcintyre cites the issue of the 
state income tax as an example of Sira-
bella's moral courage - contrasted with 
Parker's alleged refusal to take contro-
l'ersial positions. Interested observers 
should review the newspaper statements 
and literature of the two candidates to 
see whether Mr. Mcintyre's analysis 
contains any truth. Hank Parker issued 
several statements supporting the state 
income tax passed by the Connecticut 
General Assembly during the summer. 
He coupled his support with a plea for 
modifying certain rate brackets in order 
to increase the progressivity of the tax. 
As most New Haven proponents of 
the income tax already backed Parker, 
his clear defense of the generally un-
popular levy yielded no new support, 
and risked alienating potential backers. 
Sirabella's position was much less 
clear. In a display of nimble-footed 
semantics. he denounced the Assembly-
approved measure as a "phony income 
tax." Sirabella 's literature attempted to 
harness the conservative backlash gen-
erated by the state income tax, and was 
unclear about his alternative plan. 


Mr. Mcintyre compares the Sirabella 
campaign "without an organization and 
without money" to the "reform machine" 
of the Parker effort. Translated into 
less self-righteous terminology, Mr. Mc-
Intyre is saying that many people vol-
unteered to help Parker while many 
less people offered to help Sirabella. 
To this charge, we must plead guilty. 
The Parker candidacy did stimulate 
board citizen participation which result-
ed in a doubling of Parker's vote from 
his 1969 total. 


As far as campaign spending is con-
cerned, the official financial reports in-
dicate that the two campaigns spent 
roughly equal amounts. More enlighten-
ing is the fact that approximately three-
fourths of Sirabella's campaign expend-
itures was financed by a single individual, 
a wealthy Woodbridge industrialist. 
In contrast, Parker was heavily depend-
ent on several small and moderate size 
contributions. These facts contradict Mr. 
Mcintyre's analysis of the campaigns' 
respective supporters. 


Finally, we must deal with Mr. Mc-
Intyre's assertion that Sirabella formed 
"a coalition of working people of all 
races." Ultimately, his claim to a moral 
victory rests upon this premise. 


The results of the primary show that 
the black wards, and the poorest black 
wards-in particular, voted overwhelm-
ingly for Parker. Even more damaging 
to Mr. Mcintyre's position is the fact 
that in many of the Italian and ethnic 
working-class wards, Parker, a black, 
did as well as Sirabella, an Italian labor 
leader. Thus, on a man-to-man basis, 
Parker battled Sirabella to a stand-off in 
the white, working-class wards where 
Sirabella claimed to have great strength. 
Parker was the pre-eminent candidate of 
students and academics; and he ran far 
ahead of Sirabella in all of the Jewish 
wards. Parker's total vote was five times 
that of Sirabella's.lt was Parker who 
emerged from the primary as the builder 
of a broad-based, left-liberal coalition, 
which included workers and the unem-
ployed. 


One is struck by the self-righteous 
tone of Mr. Mcintyre's article. His state-
ment is essentially a defense of Sira-
bella's continuation to the bitter end 
of his hopeless effort ; despite the re-
sulting division of the left-liberal com-
mut'ity. By discrediting Hank Parker, 
Mr. Mcintyre hopes to justify the kami-
kaze-style of the Sirabella campaign. 


I do not doubt the sincerity or ability 
of Mr. Sirabella, Mr. Mcintyre, or Mr. 
Sirabella's other supporters. Many of us 
in the Parker campaign hoped until the 
last moment that some form of accom-
modation could be reached with Vincent 
Sirabella and his supporters. 


In my contact with Mr. Sirabella, I 
have found him capable, engaging, and 
sincere. I hope to work with him and his 
backers in the future. 


However, the refusal of the Sirabella 
camp to work with Hank Parker canRot 
be jusitified. After Professor Robert 
Abelson's public opinion poll demon-
strated the overwhelming preference of 
the left-liberal community for Parker, 
the inevitable effect of the Sirabella 
CaJ1?paign could only have been to split 
the reform vote. hurt Parker, and help 
Guida. That is precisely what happened 
on election day. It is regrettable that 
New Haven will not have a mayor with 
the ability, compassion, and capacity 
for personal growth of Hank Parker. 


Mr. Zelinsky was campaign coordinator 
for Henry Parker. --


**Gag Jr's Liquor Shoppe**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
II 
Gag Jr's Liquor Shoppe 
your 
favorite 
wine 
and 
Liquors 
Cross Country skiing 
Alpine skiing 
Winter M ountaineering 
Free Delivery 
57 Whalley Avenue 
(opposite Holiday Inn) 
New Haven, Ct. 
776·0120 
8-8 Monday thru Saturday 
Mary & Vincent Gagliardi




FrankMerrlweU is back. 
The original Frank Merriwell stories which 
thrilled untold millions in previous generations 
now return. In paperback, hard cover and a ~pecial 
commemorative issue. 
Order yours today! 
Fran" M.nr\w\'\\'., 
Smith Street Publications, Inc. 
(Subs. of National Learning Corp.) 
Deparunent N-106 
20 D uPont Street 
Plainview, New York 11803 
(516)935-5800 
Send me FrankMerriwelfs Schooldays 
_
paperbound copies@ $.95 each. 
hardcover copies@ $3.95 each. 
commemorative copies@ $5 each . 
including an additional 35 cents for each book to cover 
JX)stage and handling. (Personal check or money order- no 
cash or stamps, please.) 
Nama~---------------------------------
Ad~es•~------~------------------------
Cityc._ ________ ___,.;,tatcc::.e ____ 
-"Zipr ____ _



Finest Equipment and Service 
1 5 Whitney Avenue 
New Haven 
865 1659 
Arnold's Boot Sh 
Keeler Bldg . 
Wilton 
et opp~i te Varderbilt 
America's Favorite Boot'makerl by Frye 
762 8324 
SaDJ.e D a y Service 
Hours, 
Free Pick-up a nd & Delivery 
8 a .m. -
9 p.m. daily 
8 a.m . -
5 p.m. Saturdays 



Here's t he Famous Frye oot. he Jame authentic 
boot designed and mad of ru ged atural 
cowhide by the very sam com a 
that made 
them 100 years ago. Wa 
-rep II nt nd reinforced 
with leather linings. 
Stop in and D1"r"Ml~ 
selection of bflFet:!!P.l~rttl'ftr 
5 9 B road "Wa y 
562·9723 
Typing_ and Copying Service 



Handmade leather -
pouches. belts. 
vests. tapestry bags, candles, jewelry, 
straw flowers 
hard to f ind paperback books in-
cense, incen,se burners, essential 
oils, selective magazines, under-
ground comics. posters. patches, 
cards. leather sandals, made to 
order 
pipes; w ater. w ood, glass, stone 
lighters, stash boxes, papers of 
e:very variety 
EXCLUSIVE 
Hartford distributor for Neptune 
Waterbed complete line of water 
bed frames and accessories. 
Stiky Fingers at 101 Whalley Avenue, New Haven 

