Publication date: 12/83
Volume 16, Issue 3

**Title: The Moonies: East Meets West on Chapel Street**
**Author: Anne Applebaum**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Constance smiles. She giggles nervously, asks your name and is pleased to meet you. She demurely points the way into a room with a green rug, two couches and a large television set. Aside from the pamphlets strewn on the coffee table and stacked in the hall, it could be any living room in any suburban home. Constance giggles again and promises that they will start soon. 
It is 10:00 A.M. The inhabitants of the yellow house on the corner of Elm and Norton streets are congregating downstairs. They greet each other and smile anxiously at the new guest. If today were a weekday, most would be leaving the house about now, heading to places like Cross Campus to hand out leaflets in the hopes that a few people will stop and listen to what they have to say. But today is Sunday and New Haven's Moonies are about to hold their worship service. 

The 20 or so people gathered in the house on Elm Street are part of the International One World Crusade, Reverend Moon's latest effort to bring spiritual renewal to America. Almost all of the Moonies in New Haven live here together. The Unification Church pays most of their rent, but some have taken part time jobs to make ends meet. 
Constance leads the way into the adjoining room where three rows of folding chairs are lined up facing a pulpit and a portrait of Reverend Moon. A woman wearing a purple dress stands up. She smiles broadly and asks the name of the new guest. Everyone claps. Everyone is pleased to meet you. 
As the woman begins to sing, Constance whispers that the blue songbook contains lyrics written by Reverend Moon. When she is finished, the woman in the purple dress begins reading passages from the Bible and from a large brown volume entitled "The Divine Principle," a collection of God's truth as revealed to the Reverend Moon on a mountain in Korea. The congregation bows its head in silence. 
A short man in a plain grey suit walks to the pulpit and smiles. His name is Bill Taylor, and he begins his sermon by reminding us that if our minds and bodies are unified, we can live God's perfection. "And if everyone lives God's perfection, the world will become perfect, right?" Taylor shakes his head sadly. "Unfortunately, we do not always do what our minds tell us to. But we must not stop trying; every individual is responsible for history." He looks out at the waiting congregation, and smiles again, "After all, it's a reality that each of us can change the world." 

This unassuming group of people seems far removed from the scandal and controversy that have surrounded the Unification Church. Allegations that the Moonies use brainwashing tactics on unsuspecting converts continue to damage the church's reputation. Fear of Moon's power and resentment of his vast financial holdings have caused some to question the sincerity of his religious mission. His links with South Korea's right wing government have also cast doubts on the vehement anti-Communist message he often preaches. 
But thousands of Moon's followers around the world continue to insist that Reverend Moon has provided them with a religious theology they can live by. They say they have been drawn to the church's desire to create a new world order based on the harmony of all things by "unifying" all religions and countries and building a bridge between modern science and religion. 

After the service the Moonies meet for lunch. Paul Yasutake looks down at his plate. "You see?" he laughs, "East and West. Eggdrop soup and bologna sandwiches." Paul grew up as a Protestant in Hawaii, but as a Cal State undergraduate considered becoming a disciple of a Vietnamese monk. He hesitated before taking his vows because Christian philosophies continued to intrigue him. When he met a Unificationist on the streets of Los Angeles, he knew he had found an answer. Today, he is one of the leaders of the New Haven church. As he waits for his soup to cool, he recalls Moon's attraction. "Buddhism was too passive. The Unification Church was involved in the world. We are active. We want to change things." 

Jean-Pierre, who has been nodding in silent agreement with Paul's exposition, now puts in a word of his own. He talks about his first Moonie religious retreat. "It was a spiritual experience. It was the first time I ever believed in God." Jean-Pierre is from Lyons, and his speech is colored by a very heavy French accent. Gino, an Italian, disagrees with what Jean-Pierre is saying. "For me, it was the people and the lifestyle. I was attracted to them before I even understood the theology." All concur that the theology is very difficult. 
Paul breaks the silence. "But we do have videotapes you can see sometimes if you want to understand it." He extends an invitation to visit the Unification Church's video center at 938 Church Street. "The more you learn, the more it all begins to fit together," he says. Everyone nods in agreement. 
Lunch is over. Nevin Coglazier, the leader of the New Haven Moonies, walks in quickly and apologizes for not attending the service. He must be in New York this afternoon he explains. But he is glad there is a guest, and he will be back tomorrow if you want to talk some more. He walks to the door and pauses to shake hands. He smiles. He was very pleased to meet you. 

Jonathan Wells doesn't need to prove anything to anybody. In his blue pinstripes and topsiders, he is perfectly at home in the common room of HGS. He looks around at the oak-paneled walls and grimaces. "They weren't sure I could do the work here. They thought I might be too dogmatic, incapable of learning." Now he smiles. "When they met me, I think they felt better." 
Jonathan Wells is a Moonie, and he finds absolutely no conflict between his religious commitment and his studies at the Yale Graduate School. 

Wells' career in the Unification Church began in 1973, not long after he emerged from a year and a half in jail for draft evasion. At that time, his disillusionment with activism propelled him to look for an alternative method of social change. At first, religion seemed to hold no answers; "all the meditation groups seemed too easy, too passive." Then Wells heard Reverend Moon speak at UC Berkeley. Here was a difference; a religious leader who preached "being active in the world." He joined the movement soon afterward. 
Was Jonathan Wells brainwashed? He puts down his coffee cup emphatically. "At age 32," he asks, "don't you think I knew what I was doing?" 
Besides, Wells himself leads Moonie retreats. "'They say we won't let you sleep? We practically have to force people to sleep. It's like putting kids to bed at camp. They're so excited they want to stay up all night." Wells attributes this bad publicity to anti-Korean "racism," the natural suspicion of a new religion, and the misinterpreted zealousness of Moon's followers. "Sure I've seen glassy-eyed Moonies," he shrugs. "If you were working long hours everyday, fundraising and witnessing, you might look glassy eyed too, but that doesn't mean you're not sincere." He continues, "We might have made some mistakes in the past- pushed a little too hard- but I don't think that is going on now." 

A hint of what Wells might mean by zealousness begins to creep into his voice when he talks about Reverend Moon. He leans back in his chair, says simply, "Reverend Moon is impossible to characterize. I would call him unpredictable, powerful, compassionate, and fatherly. All he talks about is God and what God wants. Whether or not he is the Son of God is open to question- I believe he is-but even if he weren't I would expect him to act just as he does." 
To thousands of people around the world, Moon is indeed the Messiah. Moon claims to have had his first revelation at age 16 when Jesus appeared to him and asked him to continue His work. Moon did not follow through on these instructions immediately. He studied electrical engineering until 1945, when he founded Unificationism. Today, Moon lives in a mansion in New York State with a group of his followers. He runs a seminary not far from his house and lectures there on occasion. Other than that, he rarely appears in public. 

Wells realizes that he is exceptionally privileged to have come into contact with Reverend Moon. He was fortunate enough to have been a student of Moon at the Unification Theological Seminary in Barreytown, New York. 
Wells looks up at the high wooden ceiling of HGS. He is optimistic "Moon is confident about the future too, because when people learn more they'll have to put God, humanity and America before their own personal success. And if you take that message seriously, someday you might find yourself challenged." 

With his blonde crewcut and white cotton sweater, Whitney Shiner is indistinguishable from the other Yale students talking at tables around him. But sitting in Naples at lunchtime, it is often difficult to hear him. Nevertheless, Shiner's voice echoes with a quiet fervor when he speaks about his purpose as a Moonie at Yale. "I am here to learn about Christian thought, and to talk to people from other denominations. There is a danger that our church could become isolated from other Christian sects because of our communal lifestyle. But Reverend Moon wants us to be active in the world, which is why he supports 30 or so graduate students around the country." 
Shiner gives away his Indiana origins and University of Chicago education with his slight Midwestern twang. As the conversation turns to his early involvement with the church, his eyes take on an intensive glint. For the first time, his voice rises above the din at Naples. "I have come to believe that the anti-war movement was a great mistake. Most of those who didn't have a religious commitment ended up dropping out." Shiner joined the movement at about the same time as his colleague and housemate Jonathan Wells. Like Wells, he says he found solace for his disillusionment in Moon's theology. "Reverend Moon teaches us to live first for God, then for the world. We can, through this process, restore the world to God's idea." 

Shiner concedes that "things inside the movement look weird to those who don't have faith." The wedding, for instance. The Moonie wedding was held in Madison Square Garden in 1982.