Publication date: January 28, 1994
Volume: 26
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Monica Pong
- Editor-in-Chief: jose Manuel Tesoro
- Managing Editor: jay Porter
- Business Manager: Cheryl Sheinkopf
- Designer: Caroline Kim
- Production Manager: joshua Civin
- Photography Editor: Katie Brandi
- Associate Editor: David Gerber
- Associate Editor: Suzanne Kim
- Development Director: Susan Comins
- joshua Au"bach • Ekna Chnney • Sarah Di]ulio • R~gina G~iin • ]acki~ Goldb~rg • John Gorham • Adam Grifr • Laura Hodes • Sonya ]oo • Ben Lumpkin • Edward Kim • Annim Kirchn~r • M~lissa Mosko[• Kau Schuler *Elected to staff January 22, 1994
- Members and Directors: Edward B. Bennett III • Constance Clement • Peter B. Cooper • Andy Court • Brooks Kelly • Patricia Pierce • Kathy Reich • Fred Strebeigh • Thomas Strong
- Friends: Anson M. Beard, Jr. • Edward B. Bennett, Jr. • Edward B. Bennett III • Blaire Bennett • Paul S. Bennett • Gerald Bruck • Jonathan M. Clark • Louise F. Cooper • Peter B. Cooper • Jerry and Rae Court • David Freeman • Geoffry Fried • Sherwin Goldman • Brooks Kelly • Roger Kirwood • Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr. • Lewis E. Lehrman • E. Nobles Lowe • Peter Neill • Julie Peters • Fairfax C. Randal • Nicholas X. Rizopoulos • Arleen and Arthur Sager • Dick and Debbie Sears • Richard Shields • Thomas Strong • Elizabeth Tare • Alex and Betsy Torello • Allen and Sarah W ardell • Daniel Y ergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
About this Issue
Between the Vines: Getting In, Coming Out. - Jay Porter
The View from the "Q." - Kate Schuler
Death of the Yale Man. - Elena Cherney
Through Women's Eyes. - Caroline Kim
Back to School. - Clare Connors


**Title: About this Issue**
**Author: JMT**
**Page number(s): 3**

,, T
he only 'A' you need is the 'A' in Yale," said a 
Yale student to one of our writers this past sum-
mer, echoing an oft-repeated if cynical view on 
campus, that we pay for the name-and the image-as 
much as for the education. Many of us come 
here with stars in our eyes, hoping to par-
take of an American legend: an acade-
my; bound in traditions older than 
this nation, that could turn us 
into presidents and potentates, 
renowned 
scholars 
or 
respected practicioners of 
the arts, simply through 
the mystical resonance of 
its name. 

When we arrive, 
however, we d iscover 
that there are two kinds 
of Yale, the mythic and 
the quotidian. The image 
of a campus populated by 
the young William Howard 
Tafts or Nathan Hales and 
led by Nobel laureates or poet-
philosophers gives way to the 
day-to-day cycle of classes, office 
work, study, research, socializing, 
meetings, and so on. Only within this uni-
versity community do we find those who have 
come to the same realization: our imagined Yale is more real 
off-campus than on-. 

How those who are outside Yale in some way see this 
university is the subject of this theme issue. We sent our 
writers as far from our daily Yale as we could, to see if they 
could discover how Yale looks from the outside. Kate 
Schuler talked to children and staff at the Dixwell Q House 
about how some in the New Haven community perceive 
the Yale they encounter. Elena Cherney hit the books to 
characterize the enduring image of the "Yale Man" i~ litera-
ture. Caroline Kim asked some in Yale's first class of under-
graduate women how they saw Yale when they 
were here, and how they see Yale now. Clare 
Connors also talked to alumni, who 
have come back to study at the Yale 
they once knew, about their per-
ceptions of a changed and 
changing university. And Jay 
Porter rounds out the issue 
with a personal look at the 
image of Yale as a gay 
school. 

We realize that we enter 
largely uncharted territory 
by examining others' per-
ceptions of Yale-invading 
the realm of impressions 
and ideas, of prejudices and 
preconceptions. An issue on 
such a wide-ranging and com-
plex topic can never pretend to 
be comprehensive, and so we pre-
sent, without apology, a patchwork 
of images that coexist as well as conflict: 
traditional, liberal, elitist, egalitarian, homo-
geneous, diverse, straight-laced, queer. We hope to 
spark some thoughts about the Yale image, the Yale mys-
tique-because the mythic Yale will be a Yale we will live 
with long after we have left campus. "Who the hell do you 
Yalies think you are?" is the question sometimes posed by 
those with a less-than-complimentary picture of Yale. We 
answer: We're not sure. You tell us. 
-JMT


**Title: The View from the "Q"**
**Author: Kate Schuler**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yale's austere Gothic buildings dwarf passersby. 
Colorful posters plaster gates and kiosks for singing 
group jams, political forums, and theater produc-
tions. The intersection of Elm and High Street, the center 
1 of Yale's campus, bustles with purposeful students who have 
~ seemingly little regard for the local traffic. 


A mere three blocks north, boarded up buildings, dilap-
idated tenements, storefront churches, and funeral homes 
line pothole-marked Dixwell Avenue. In the center of the 
Dixwell neighborhood, graffiti-covered plywood blocks the 
entry to a closed library. A busy intersection attracts clusters 
of teenagers who idly observe pa$sing cars. 

Yale students generally shy away from the Dixwell area: 
.£ The literature and safety workshops Yale uses to educate 
c about New Haven make students all too aware of the dan-
~ 
gers of attending school in a city. Many students envision 
crime, drugs, or gang violence lurking beyond the sacred 
boundaries of the blue phones. Students rarely jog or ride 
their bikes in Dixwell, opting instead for the safety of 
Prospect Street. Few students venture north past Payne 
Whitney Gymnasium, the last Yale edifice before Dixwell 
Avenue merges with familiar Broadway. 

While Yale students shun the Dixwell area, the resi-
dents of Dixwell cannot block Yale's presence from their 
city. The fortress of Old Campus and the cast-iron gates of 
the residential colleges establish and maintain the division 
between Yale and New Haven. Yale, one-time home to 
George Bush (DC '48) and Bill Clinton (LAW '73), seems 
to many New Haven residents a powerful assembly line for 
the production of the country's leaders. According to one 
Dixwell resident, most of his neighbors look at Yale stu-
dents and "don't see middle class distinctions; all they see is 
rich, white. They see so few blacks" among Yale students. 

Dixwell residents rarely feel that their world and the 
world of Yale meet on equal ground. The Dixwell 
Community Q House allows a chance for stereotypes of 
Yale and Dixwell to break down. The Q House sponsors 
daycare and educational programs, and provides outreach 
programs like teen drop-in centers, food distribution, sup-
port groups for parents, peer counseling, and summer 
camps. In an after-school program, 36 Yale students tutor 
and help supervise· the children who use the facility. While 
both Yale students and Dixwell residents approach the pro-
gram with preconceived ideas about the "other," they often 
take away new perspectives. 

Diane Brown, program supervisor of the Q House, 
explains that more negative comments about Yale come 
from Dixwell residents who have not spent time with Yale 
students. "I hear people talking about 
those rich, white ... " Her voice trails off; 
she is reluctant to repeat the words peo-
ple use to describe Yale students. Often, 
the pervading perception ofYale students 
is of their wealth, Brown says. Dixwell 
residents' perception of Yale as a bastion 
of privilege makes it difficult for them to 
believe chat Yalies actually work. Brown 
tells of a Yale volunteer who left the cen-
ter early one afternoon, explaining that 
she had to study for an exam. "One little 
boy was amazed and said to her, 'You 
don't need to study, you go to Yale.' This 
is what the kids think. They're surprised 
to find out [Yalies] work hard." 

The image ofYale students as the 
idle rich disintegrates as the kids and volunteers spend time 
together. "It's good when the kids hear that the student may 
only have one pair of jeans because they can't afford to buy 
more," Brown comments. "I hear tutors telling the kids 
about their part-time jobs to help pay for school." 

Brown focuses on the black Yale students who visit the 
Q House as particularly important in challenging stereo-
types. "The kids here need someone to say to them, 'Look 
I'm black, and I go to Yale." 

What the kids at the Q House say about their tutors 
supports Brown's observations. Alicia, 10, is a four-year vet-
eran of the Q. Before she came to the Q House, she 
thought all Yale students were rich and snobbish. Alicia has 
changed her opinion, but comments, "My friends at school 
still think that." Alicia suggested planning a party to thank 
the Yale volunteers. "They help me a lot with my home-
work, and they play with us," she says. Six-year-old Parris 
concurs. Wearing her dark green school uniform, her eyes 
wide with energy, she speaks freely of her affection for the 
volunteers. "I love them because they help me, and when 
they're done they help other people. It's very nice," she says 
with conviction. 

While Yale volunteers go some distance in dispelling 
their elitist image, not all New Haven residents are con-
vinced of the sincerity of their volunteering. The drive and 
ambition of Yale students can lead to assumptions 
that students are simply padding their resumes. 

"I can see a lack of zeal, a sense of just going 
with the flow," says Zaid Qawiyy, the edu-
cational specialist at the center. 

Yale volunteers may have to over-
come this suspicion. Many of the com-
munity residents may not realize the 
time constraints or the difficulties Yale 
students often must resolve. Brown's 
experiences with the volunteers reveal 
that most of the students act selflessly 
when they volunteer. "These volunteers 
are giving their time when they could be 
studying or working at a part-time job. They 
put up with my strict rules, and I can make it 
hard for them. They're not getting school credit 
for it, no one's pushing them to do this. It's a very pos-
itive thing," Brown asserts, clearly impressed with and 
proud of the Yale students she knows. Before Christmas, the 
volunteers gave the kids a goodbye parry, paid for out of 
their own pockets. The kids like the Yale volunteers, often 
picking favorites or even refusing to work until a certain 
tutor helps them. "Kids can tell when they're being treated 
right," says Brown. 

Cynthia, 8, describes her impression of the university. 
"I think it must be fun. They have machines that give you 
candy, and lots of computers." To her this seems out of 
reach. "Also, they get a lot of attention there. Our schools 
don't give us any attention," she says. 

T
he interaction at the Q H. ouse also revises the image 
Yale students have of Dixwell. "This is the first time 
most of these Yale students have been around a pre-
dominantly black neighborhood,, Brown comments. Some 


Yale students come to the center with 
the notion that children in the poverty-rid-
den inner city have little or no future except a life of 
drugs and crime. "The national media is constantly show-
ing the bad," she says, "the broken homes, the mothers who 
are junkies." 

The volunteers often talk to Brown about their initial 
misconceptions. "They tell me, 'Diane, I didn't expect to 
see fath~rs,' or they're shocked to see some of these kids get-
ting As and Bs on their report cards." Brown is pleased that 
the Yale students are helping to spread the word that things 
are not all that bleak. 

It is impossible to deny that Yale has its advantages. In 
the end, the differences between Yale students and the peo-
ple in the Dixwell community prove decisive. "Anyone who 
graduates from Yale is going to be influential," Brown 
explains. "I just hope that when they go out in the world 
that they don't forget us and the things they saw here." IIBJ 
Kau Schuler, a sophomor~ in Saybrook, is on th~ staff ofTNJ. 


**Title: The Yale**
**Author: Elena Cherney**
**Page number(s): 6**

Dink Stover, freshman, chose his seat in the after-
noon express that would soon be rushing him to 
New Haven and his first glimpse ofYale University. 
He leisurely divested himself of his trim overcoat, 
folding it in exact creases and laying it gingerly across 
the back of his seat; stowed his ttaveling bag; 
smoothed his hair with a masked movement of his 
gloved hand; pulled down a buckskin vest, opening 
the lower button; removed his gloves and folded 
them in his breast pocket, while with the same ges-
ture a careful forefinger, unperceived, assured itself 
that his lilac silk necktie was in snug contact with the 
high collar whose points, painfully but in perfect 
style, attacked his chin .... Each movement was exe-
cuted without haste or embarrassment, but leisurely, 
with the deliberate savoir-faire of the complete man 
of the world he had become at the age of eighteen. 
-from Stover at Yak, by Owen Johnson. 


here is no way to know or prove what Americans 
think of Yale. Perhaps those of us with a stake in 
Yale's public image are guilty of conceit; most of the 
country and indeed the world does not care about Yale. Yale 
probably matters less to more people than most of us would 
care to imagine. ("Yale, huh? That's nice.") 

Often, however, the mention ofYale does matter-it 
elicits wide eyes, an intake of breath, a hushed "oh," or a 
taken-aback, "oh," or a you-must-think-you're-really-some-
thing "oh." Yalies have all seen these reactions, and joke 
about how to avoid telling people where they go to school. 
("Just a lit de college in Connecticut," and, when pressed, 
they offer their residential college name.) They hang their 
heads a bit and wonder, what is this person think-
ing? What do they think ofYale that makes them 
breathe "oh!" like that? Where do they get these 
ideas? 

Just as it is impossible to prove what 
Americans think of Yale, there's no way to prove 
why they think it. It seems fair, however, in assessing 
perceptions of Yale, to consider the representa-
tions of Yale in widely-read literature-con-
structed notions ofYale that people encounter. 

Arguably, literature-fiction and sometimes 
non-fiction-in attempting to create character falls back and 
perpetuates certain ideas of Yale. Yale graduates in public life, 
mosily men, must answer to and sometimes excuse their asso-
ciation with Yale. The Yale Men of literarure have so strongly 
influenced the identity of the Yalie as a wealthy, white male 
that Bill Clinton (LAW '73) was accused of a privileged back-
ground despite the realities of his humble beginnings. The 
mystique established by Yale Men in literature lives on in the 
public imagination, despite its dissociation from reality. 

The figure of the Yale Man dominates the image of the 
university in literature. There are, of course, no women. 
The refined Dink Stover and his better-known descendants, 
F. Scott Fitzgerald's Nick Carraway of Th~ Great Gatsby and 
Tom Wolfe's (GRD '57) Sherman McCoy of Th~ Bonfire of 
th~ Wlnitin-these elegant, arrogant men overshadow Yale 
itself. Their authors describe their confidence, their chins 
and their neckties-their Yaleness-without describing 
Yale. Readers are more likely to remember that Nick 
Carraway went to Yale than that Yale is in Connecticut. 
(Many guess Boston.) Nick was "at New Haven," but 
nobody remembers that; they just remember Yale, and 
Nick, and the Long Island mansions, and the formalwear in 
the movie of Th~ Great Gatsby. Yale in these novels is an 
intangible, almost invisible entity, uncharted, that exists 
merely to churn out these specimens ofYaleness. Hence, the 
mystique of the untouchable, the indescribable. 

The Yale that Dink Stover discovers best exemplifies 
that mystique. This hero of Owen Johnson's 1911 novel 
Stowr at ~le, gets off the train and steps onto a Yale campus 
that today's students, professors, and alumni would not rec-
ognize. Wearing suits and ties throughout, the men of Yale 
"wheel" various activities in order to make their names 
known so that they have a chance of being tapped for sec~ 
societies. If the students attend any classes or do any study-



**The Yale Man: From Dink Stover to Sherman McCoy**
**Author: [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Stov~r would also be blissfully ignorant of a Yale student's 
academic responsibilities. A reader would perceive instead 
that at Yale, a man labors to secure his "crowd" and status, 
and ultimately his election to an elite society. 
Stover's ascent begins that first afternoon on the train, 
his grooming and mannerisms designed to impress and even 
intimidate. That evening, Le Baron, a sophomore, informs 
him, "You're going to be judged by your friends, and it 
just as easy to know the right crowd as the 
wrong." 
Stover asks what Le Baron means 
by "the right crowd," ~nd Le Baron 
explains that it is '"the crowd that 
is doing things, working for Yale; 
the crowd-' 
'That the class ahead picks 
out to lead us,' said Stover 
abruptly," interrupting Le 
Baron. 

The brutality of the fight 
Le Baron describes shocks 
Stover, as it would embarrass 
the contemporary Yalie. The 
struggle for status Le Baron 
depicts represents a Yale 
that few students today 
even want to recognize. 
What does "working for 
Yale" mean? To Le Baron 
and his crowd, working for 
Yale is a kind of holy cru-
sade. Yale to them is the 
Yale of the blue banners we hang in our rooms. The Yale we 
so casually droop over our fireplaces stood much nearer to 
God to the Yalies of 1911. Every football game, every crew 
race, was to them a prayer of the faithful. 

While Johnson injects from the start a note of irony in 
his frank dissection ofYale's elite competition and the arro-
gant young men, he only explicitly critiques the system 
when Stover begins to rebel against it. Stover works hard for 
Yale all through his freshman year, laboring unsuccessfully 
but valiantly on the football and then the crew team, mak-
ing friends with all the right people while learning the 
names of all the rest. He is duly tapped for an all-important 
sophomore society and is considered a leader of his class. 
But in spite of his hard-won success, Stover begins to cxpe-
rience doubts about a system that labels the majority of peo-
ple the "wrong crowd." He begins to sympathize with a 
group of students agitating for an end to the sophomore 
society system. Ultimately, he tears off his society pin, 
stomps on it, and declares himself opposed to the system. 
He loses several society friends, but gains new ones, truer 
ones, among the "wrong" element of the college, those who 
do not "work for Yale" as Stover does. 

While Johnson suggests a critique of Yale 
elitism with his depiction of Stover's stance 
against the sophomore societies, in the 
end Stover is tapped for Skull and 
Bones, clearly the highest achieve-
ment for a Yale Man of the day. 
In the moment of his election to 
the elite, Stover's eyes "blun:ed 
with tears, and he knew how 
much he cared, after the long 
JJtonths of rebellion, to be no 
longer an outsider, but back 
among his own with the stamp 
of approval on his record." 
Stover is a Yale Man to 
the end, and Johnson does not 
chide him for it. Dink plays 
fair, and rebels according to 
his sense of fairness. He is 
no radical; even his rebellion 
is in the name of the most 
sacred of all American val-
ues: democracy. The Yale 
elite recognizes the conser-
vative nature of Dink's revolt and embraces him with their 
tap. His friends are proud of Yale and its Men for taking 
him back; to them it evinces Yale's holiness in a new way. 
Brockhui:st, the bookish fellow who works for the literary 
magazine but refuses to "heel" it, and disavows any interest 
in the society system, voices his pride in Yale: "Well, Yale's 
good enough as it is. It takes an awful lot to stir it, but it's 
the most sensitive of the American colleges, and it will 
respond. It wants to do the right thing." 

But at the end of his speech, Brockhurst seems to 
change his mind: 'Tm not satisfied with Yale as a magnifi-
cent factory on democratic business lines; I dream of some-
thing else, something visionary, a great institution not of 
boys, clean, lovable, and honest, but of men of brains, of 
courage, ofleadership, a great center of 
thought, to stir the country and bring 
it back to the understanding of what 
man creates with his imagination, and 
dares with his will. It's visionary-it 
will come." 

But if Johnson hints at a different, 
more democratic, less otherworldly 
Yale, it has been a long time coming, 
at least in literature. The Yalie 
Sherman McCoy represents in Tom 
Wolfe's 1987 New York Times best-
seller, The Bonfire of the Vanities, is an 
almost conscious descendant of Dink 
Stover. But where Johnson suggests his 
crltlque only indirectly, Wolfe 
unleashes a furious attack. He satirizes 
the unfortunate Sherman into a carica-
. ture of Stover. Sherman is the Yale 
Man swollen wii:h the idea of himself, 
larger than life and ridiculous.· 
Sherman McCoy, 38, presumably the 
Class of '71 of '72, earns $980,000 a 
year, lives in a $2.6 million, 14-room 
Park Avenue co-op apartment. He 
inhabits "the Best section of the capital 
of the Western World in the late twen-
tieth century-" and sells bonds on 
Wall Street. He sends his 
daughter (Campbell, a 
family name) to 
"the Best School 
with the Best 
Girls 
from 
the 
Families." 

Mockingly, Wolfe describes McCoy's 
self-image, his joy in his "terrific pos-
ture ... terrific to the point of imperi-
ous," his pleasure in his "full head of 
sandy-brown hair ... a long nose, a 
prominent chin ... He was proud of his 
chin. It was a manly chin, a big round 
chin such as Yale men used to have in 
those drawings by Gibson and 
Leyendecker, an aristocratic chin, if 
you want to know what Sherman 
thought. He was a Yale man himself." 

Sherman's Yale chin elevates him 
above the rules that govern ordinary 
mortals. The arrogance with which he 
bears his Yale chin plays a large part in 
his story. "As they crossed Park 
Avenue, he had a mental image of 
what an ideal pair they made; 
Campbell, the perfect angel in a pri-
vate school uniform; himself, with his 
noble head, his Yale chin, his big 
frame, and his $1,800 British suit, the 
angel's father, a man of parts; he visu-
alized the admiring stares, the envious 
stares, of the drivers, the pedestrians, 
of one and all." 

He thinks 
of himself 
as a Master 
of 
Universe, as 
in his daugh-
ter's plastic dolls. 
How these .iOJI.i r~f't/Jl' 
,r:,n'tl t 1t 11 i l't'l'sit il'.i... t /Jcsc 
inheritors r~(tf,c lux tlllrl 
\·cri t as !lOll' floc/,:cr/ to 
\\';t/1.\trcct .... ,\ft~st('J'.' r~( 
the { ln i l'l'l'Sl'.' 

Sherman puts 
Campbell on the bus and hops in a 
cab to work, where he, a 
Master 
Universe, settles 
himself calmly 
amid 
chaos 
the bond 
trading 
room. 
'"Ho l y 
fucking 
shit.' How 
McCoy's 
Yaleness plays a large 
part in his image of himself, 
one of those tapped for an existence so 
elite as to completely absolve him of 
ordinary human responsibilities such 
as marital fidelity, kissing his beloved 
Campbell goodnight, or stopping his 
car after hitting a 
pedestrian. 

universities, 
these legatees of 
Jefferson, Emerson, 
Thoreau, William James, 
Frederick Jackson Turner, William 
Lyon Phelps, Samuel Flagg Bemis, and 
the other three-name giants of 
American scholarship-how these; 
inheritors of the lux and the veritas 
now flocked to Wall Street .... Masters 
of the Universe! The roar filled 
Sherman's soul with hope, confidence, 
esprit de corps and righteousness. Yes, 
righteousness!" 

Wolfe sets Sherman up for a fall 
from his Yale· eminence. Sherman 
takes a wrong turn off the T riboro 
Bridge into the Bronx on his way back 
into Manhattan after picking up his 
mistress at the airport. While his mis-
tress is driving, the car strikes a young 
man. They drive away, although 
Sherman suspects that they have h ie 
the young man. In a Stoveresque spirit 
of fair play, Sherman wants to call the 
police, but his mistress dissuades him. 
Sherman's Universe falls apart as 
he is arrested and tried for reckless 
endangerment while the youth he hit 
lies in a coma, expected to die. 

Sherman's Yale chin does nor protect 
him from his wife's wrath, or the 
District Attorney's use of h is case for 
political purposes, or the tabloid jour-
nalism of an alcoholic reporter crying 
to hold on to his job. Everyone wants 
a part in taking down the Yale Man. 

As his ordeal drags on, Sherman, 
who has lost everything, surrenders his 
Yaleness and renounces the faith. 'Tm 
not Sherman McCoy anymore," he 
tells his attorney. "I'm somebody else 
without a proper name. I've been that 
other person since the day I was arrest-
ed ... I'm somebody else. I have noth-
ing to do with Wall Street or Park 
Avenue or Yale or St. Paul's or 
Buckley ... " 

The shattering of the Stover Yale Man 


**Exnarainary Flowers & Pt.-n:s. Creaave Designs**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Exnarainary 
Flowers & Pt.-n:s. 
Creaave Designs 
-
.......... C...&GIIII 
-.....a-.. ........ 
(203) 772-2229 
On.~Avuu. 
r.w Havu, CoM.c:dcut 06510 
o.- 1:311 A.M. • 5:30 ... M. SM. I A.M. • S ,._... 
·l~l~JD t. CttAF:II)


LIFE 
across from Old Campus 
is so convenient. 
With apanments ranging from a studio 
ro a 3-bedroom,we have something to fit 
your lifestyle. 
Call or just stop in at our office. 
Schiavone Management 
Corporation 
1032 Chapel Street 
New Haven 
777-3071 
Business Hours: 
Mon.-Fri. 8:30-5:00 
10 THE NEw jouRNAL


**The Yale Man Is Dead: Long Live Yale**
**Author: Elena Cherney**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

sidetracked to Princeton and 
Harvard." 
Trillin points out the incongruity of 
this conversation with the Yale he knew 
in the 50s and the one we know today, 
but goes on to reflect that "the more I 
think about it, the more I think that we 
were closer to the world inhabited by 
Dink ... than we were to the world of 
today's undergraduates." 
Hansen was anointed the king of a 
realm out of sync with the real world. 
As the best Yale Man of the 50s, he 
had to succeed if anyone else even 
hoped to. Yet he failed. In his 
book, Trillin attempts 
to confront the ter-
rifying truths of 
Hansen ' s 
decline. 
did not become 
President. Although 
he held a chair at the Johns 
Hopkins School of lnternation 
Studies, he had not published a book 
since the 70s, and he did not get along 
with his colleagues. He was alone; he 
was not in touch with any of his friends 
from college; he had no family. He was 
depressed, and suffered from chronic 
back trouble. 
Trillin has been taken to task by 
numerous reviewers for the assumption 
that underpins his entire project, name 
ly, that Hansen's life was so starkly a 
failure. Some have pointed out that 
Hansen only failed if the presidency 
was the mark of success; the man did, 
after all, hold a chair at a major univer-
sity. Reviewers have also criticized 
Trillin's treatment of Hansen's homo-
sexuality, which Trillin only explores at 
the end of the book. 
What emerges from these reviews 
is a questioning of the myth Denny 
upheld as a college student. The end 
Denny seemed to promise, the shining, 
all-American happy ending, was not 
realistic. It was a dream of the 50s, like 
the missile gap and the happy house-
wife. The Yale Man of these years lived 
an illusory beginning our age cannot 
match in ending. 
Trillin observes in 
Denny that no man 
of his genera-
tion, Yale or 
otherwise, 
as 
reached 
the Oval Office, 
or is likely to do so. 
he Yale Men of the 50s 
been skipped over by the Baby 
Boomers, men and women ten years 
younger, men and women like Bill and 
Hillary Clinton and their friends. 
Perhaps the Men of the 50s simply 
could not adjust to a world in which 
there is no Yale Man. Instead, in Denny, 
they gather in a living room in a scene 
Trillin calls "The Big Chill," and try to 
piece together what happened to their 
hero, the best and brightest of them. 
The explosion of the Yale Man, 
tragic as it is to those who believed in 
him, opens the way for the fulfillment 
jANUARY 2.8, 1994


**Reading Through**
**Author: Caroline Kim**
**Page number(s): 12-13**

ale undergraduate recruiting ftlm in the 1950s: the 
rilliant sun beams across the freshly-manicured 
wn of Old Campus. A tall, clean-cut Yale man in a 
crisp suit strolls over the flagstones. With a white-gloved 
young lady on one arm, he holds her overnight bag with his 
. free hand. A sonorous male voice speaks of the "Yale man's" 
active social life. The subtitle flashes onto the screen: "To Be 
a Man." 
Gone are the days of the Yale man with jacket, tie, and 
white-gloved lady in tow. Long past are the days of mixers 
and carloads of "weekend women" (as one of Yale's first 
female undergraduates put it) imported from Vassar and 
Smith. Nowadays, a sunny day on Old Campus brings 
upbeat music blaring out of a window, men and women 
sprawled on the grass in cut-offs, and perhaps a game of co-
ed ultimate Frisbee. Yale has come a long way from a tradi-
tional, all-male institution, reminiscent of old Oxford and 
Cambridge. 
. 
At a time when "Old Yale" -and- the rest of the coun-
try-was being shaken to its foundations, tQ.e arriv~l of 
women at Yale College exemplified the spirit of change. 
Rabbi Mindy Porrnoy (TC '73) recalls, "Everyone was try-
ing to be an outsider .... Everybody wore ripped jeans-no 
one wanted to be the 'quintessential Yalie.' ... Everyone had 
to rethink their roles, even the old school boy nerwork style, 
who we learned not to take too seriously because we knew 
they'd just end up doing what their daddies did." The 
arrival of women into Yale College represented one of the 
challenges to the old school boy notion of following what 
"daddy did," for Yale was no longer simply a place of 
"school boys." Some of the women who parricipated in this 
transformation tell us how they saw Yale-then and now. 
C
oeducation began well before 1969. Women first 
studied in Yale graduate programs as early as the late 
1800s. The School of the Fine Arts was the first 
coeducational graduate program, while the Graduate 
School of Arts and Sciences began to admit women in 
1892. In 1886, Alice Rufie Blake Jordan was the first 
woman to receive a Yale law degree; because she applied 
using her initials, admissions officials assumed she was a 
man. The administration subsequently revised rules for 
admission, and no women officially enrolled until 1919. 
In the 1960s, liberal tides swept across college campuses 
in America and Europe. Yale found itself in the midst of 
change in marrers ranging from dress codes to socio-politi-
cal thought. By the late 60s, Yale was more than ready to 
accept women into its undergraduate program. In the fall of 
1968, a few weeks after Princeton announced its decision to 
go coed, Yale followed suit. The following September, after 
268 years of all-male Yale, the school opened its gates to 
nearly 700 women-230 first-year students and 358 trans-
12 TH£ N£w JouRNAL 
fers. For the 
moment, 
however, Yale 
had 
only 
opened 
its 
gates but a 
crack; admis-
sions 
accepted only 
one of nine 
women who 
applied while 
admitting one 
out of four 
male appli-
cants. 
Y a 1 e 
College did 
not become. 
completely 
coed for years 
after 
the 
arrival 
of 
these 
first 
w om e .n. 
Women were 
not allowed 
into 
Linonia and 
Brothers 
( L & B ) 
Reading 
Room in Sterling Memorial Library until the mid-70s. 
Mory's did not allow women as members until 197 4, effec-
tively preventing women from hosting activities there on 
their own. Then-president Kingman Brewster, in a speech . 
to Yale alumni, announced that he would not reduce the 
number of men admitted because Yale had an obligation to 
the country to produce 1,000 leaders each year-apparently 
he did not think these women, or "intellectual amazons," as 
the press called them, could be leaders. 
_M
though many of the first women held a variety of 
mages of Yale in their minds, few of them really 
ew quite what they were getting into by accept~ng 
Yale's offer of admission. "I chink a lot of us were young and 
naive at the time. I really didn't know what to expect," said 
jANUARY 28, 1994



**Title: men's Eyes**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
men's Eyes 
N i n a 
Glickson 
(DC '73), 
associate 
director of 
programs 
at the Yale 
Alumni 
Affairs 
office. "I 
felt I was 
in for an 
adven-
ture. " 
Rabbi 
Portnoy, 
who was a 
N 
e 
w 
Haven res-
ident 
at 
the 
time 
s 
h 
applied, 
admits 
that 
she 
did 
not 
have much 
of a con-
ception of 
Yale before 
got 
there. 
"How could I possibly not go? It was Yale," she says. Rabbi 
Portnoy, as a "townie," says she never gave Yale much 
thought while growing up, although she had seen many 
Yalies. "The biggest joke used to be about how many points 
we could score by running down Yalies with our cars," she 
laughs. 
For some women, older family members influenced 
their conception ofYale. Diana Brooks (PC '72), President 
of Sotheby's and a member of the Yale Corporation, was 
part of a "devoted Yale family," with her father, brothers, 
uhcles, and cousins as Yale graduates. She thought there 
was no other university that she would rather attend; "I 
loved Yale," she said, "I was there all the time from when I 
was a little girl." 


On the other hand, Cynthia Blum (MC '72), learned 
JANUARY 28, 1994 
from her father that Yale had a somewhat conservative and 
class-conscious social atmosphere when he was a student. 
"My father had gone to Yale on financial aid and had to 
work in the kitchen. At that time, people who worked in 
the kitchen were looked down on," she recalls. "But that 
was no longer the case when I got there." Blum, a graduate 
of Harvard Law School and now a tax law professor at 
Rutgers University, transferred to Yale after a year at 
Barnard. 
Glickson also had some ideas of Yale as a snooty, tradi-
tion-bound school. "I think a lot of people still do. But 
that's a very stilted view. It has no relation to reality, because 
when you get here, it's not true," she comments. "I found 
that the people were all so interesting and diverse." 
Judith Albert {BR '72), vice-president of the Latin 
American corporate finance group at J.P. Morgan, trans-
ferred to Yale after a year at Cornell. Shortly after she was 
accepted to Yale, she visited the campus and was impressed 
with the way the administration handled campus agitation 
at a time when riots and sit-ins were regular occurences on 
university campuses. "I was impressed because the atmo-
sphere was more pro-active and civilized," she says, "where-
as the Cornell campus was explosive, and the administra-
tion was reactive. At Cornell, we had something like 8,000 
students taking over buildings, and the whole time the 
administration took an authoritarian approach, threatening 
students in a disciplinarian way ... At Yale, Brewster went to 
the dining halls to talk to the students. He said he would 
talk to any students about anything, as long as they sched-
uled an appointment. I was impressed that the administra-
tion was willing to listen to the students, as long as they 
adhered to the civilized terms of the system." 


In the fall of 1969, these women finally met the reali-
ties of undergraduate life as the pioneers of coeducation at 
Yale College. "I realized that this was a man's university," 
says Glickson. "I always felt that there were not enough 
women." She feels that the administration handled the first 
year of coeducation well. She did, however, encounter some 
difficulties. "There were so many things they had just never 
thought of," she pauses, "like sports." Not only did the 
women have to organize their own sports, but none of the 
male staff of the Yale Daily News would cover women's 
events. In addition, Glickson says with a slight smile, "We 
could never find a ladies' room. I remember we always had 
to tun all the way to the second floor to fmd one." 
Did these women feel at all like outsiders? Blum recalls 
that although some seniors resented the arrival the new 
women, most male students were quite accepting. Judith 
Albert recalls, "I didn't feel like an outsider any more than 
any other new place might have made me feel." 


Regardless of how accommodating most students were, 
there were still some Yale men who apparently felt that 
THE NEW jOURNAL 13 


these new Yalies were allowed a special 
privilege to attend Yale. Mary Corliss 
Pearl (SY '72), executive director of 
Wildlife Preservation Trust, refused to 
feel like an outsider at Yale. "I remem-
ber one professor getting really angry 
at me," she chuckles. "I said I didn't 
like the class atmosphere because there 
were so few women in each class. I 
mean the ratio of women to men was 
pathetic. I said it was somewhat of a 
hostile environment to contribute in 
class discussion. This infuriated him. I 
mean, who was I to complain?" she 
laughs. "This was a rare privilege!. .. But 
I felt that if I was at Yale as a regular 
student, there was nothing that 
shouldn't come my way." 


In the eyes of some of Yale's first 
class of women, the disproportionately 
small female population not only 
made for awkward class dynamics, but 
also hindered networking and group 
collaboration among women at the 
time. "Feminism was young and 
fresh," Judith Albert says, "There was 
little solidarity among women. Our 
buddies were guys, and it was as true 
for preps as it was for radicals." Albert 
expresses the complexities of the coed-
ucational experience for women. "I 
never would have admitted it at the 
time, but looking back, I feel some-
thing was missing that I didn't find 
until later .... Quite a few women didn't 
come out fully whole to the point at 
which you could be confideP.t in your 
right to be. As a woman in a largely 
male environment, it takes a little bit 
more to stand out, and I think women 
who went to an environment where 
they didn't have to deal with so many 
men had more of an opportunity to 
develop and express their own 
thoughts." 


M
w years back, former presi-
nt Benno Schmidt (TC '63, 
Y/1 '66) called Yale's decision 
to go coed the best decision Yale has 
ever made. Today's campus, with its . 
42.4 percent female population, stands 
jANUARY 28, 1994 


in sharp conrrast to the 1969 Yale, 
with eight men to every woman. As 
graduates of Yale College who now see 
the school from the outside, these 
women express their views and some 
specific concerns about issues that may 
affect the future of Yale. 
Corliss Pearl views the splin-
tering of the student body 
into small special inter-
est groups as prob-
lematic. "When I 
was 
Yale, 
those of us who 
were outsiders 
going to Yale 
were quick to 
embrace the 
community 
rather 
than 
emphasize how 
we were differ-
ent," she explains, 
"I guess I don't like 
to cast myself as a vic-
tim." 


On the economic side, Rabbi 
Portnoy worries about the rising cost 
of a Yale education. 7I might one day 
want to send my children to Yale, but I 
worry because the tuition rises each 
year," she says. "I hope this does not 
cause Yale to become a place only for 
the rich elite again. I don't mean the 
academic elite, because I strongly 
believe in strict standards of excellence 
in education, but I don't believe it 
should be limited to the upper class." 
In comparison to the $2,350 tuition 
she paid in the late 60s, today's price 
tag of $18,000 might cause pepple to 
write offYale as too expensive. 


Yale Corporation member Brooks 
believes that, "New H aven is the uni-
versity's biggest challenge." With the 
rise in homelessness and crime rates, 
town-gown issues are of great concern. 
Similarly, Corliss Pearl remarks, "We 
didn't have very many locked gates, 
but now there's probably a lot more 
conrrol...that really saddens me. 
Students are still active in the commu-
nity but they're dealing with horrible 
problems now, like AIDS and crack." 


Brooks also decried the problems 
with freedom of speech and thought in 
the academy: "Political correctness is a 
real danger," she says. She believes Yale 
ought to remain a place for freedom of 
expression and exploration of 
ideas. She continues, "My 
hopes for Yale are 
many-that 
it 
remain in the 
forefront of lib-
eral 
educa-
tion ... that it 
play a leader-
ship role ... 
that it be 
fearless in its 
willingness to 
change, 
to 
adapt to new 
ideas without los-
ing sight of our 
past, and our great his-
tory and traditions." 


Rabbi Portnoy recalls the reac-
tions of people when they discover she 
is a Yalie, "It's still impressive as hell. 
People often say, 'Gee, you must be 
smart, you went to Yale.'" Some peo-
ple become defensive, adds Albert, and 
"try to cut you down. They think, 
'Who do you think you are with your 
Yale degree?"' 


Corliss Pearl reveals another type 
of response to a Yale woman. "It's been 
a help in my career. Especially because 
women and minorities need that kind 
of extra assistance," she says. "I always 
advise women to get the highest degree 
possible because in the work force, it's 
much harder for women and minori-
ties, and I've always thought that this 
high establishment credential has 
helped me as a woman." 


Despite some of the difficulties of 
being among the first women at Yale 
College, Albert, Portnoy, Corliss Pearl, 
Glickson, and Brooks feel enthusiastic 
about Yale and support its standards of 
excellence. Brooks believes that "Yale 


**Title: Back to School**
**Author: Clare Connors**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Nostalgia overwhelmed him as he once again strolled through the Woolsey Rotunda-as much a student as the 20-year olds bustling about him. More than 50 years after graduating from Yale, Maxfield S. Gibbons (TD '45W) felt ready to embark upon his second Yale experience. Like other members of the accelerated wartime class of 1945, Gibbons sped through his undergraduate career in order to join the war effort. "To tell you the truth," said Gibbons, "my education at Yale was a bad one. The administration was more worried about keeping the place glued together and finding turnips to feed the undergraduates." Now, Gibbons is back for more than just his turnip ration.

Gibbons is one of a unique group of alums who, either after retirement or while still fully employed, has again become actively involved in the undergraduate community. Unlike most former Yalies, Gibbons has assumed the role of student and not simply that of a revered source of opinions or money. As a participant in an innovative program called Term Time, he pays a fee for each class he attends and chooses any course he wants. Although he must secure the permission of the seminar instructors, he can take part in discussions, attend sections, and even work with the faculty on a one-to-one basis. Football games, tailgates, cocktail parties, and fancy dinners-these comprise the usual fare of the alumni experience. Designed to impress, as well as to rekindle memories of"Bright College Years," these gatherings aim to reconnect former students with the present university and to secure the monetary commitment of the alumni.


But while some alumni organizations plan their social event calendars for the forthcoming year, other alumni programs have a somewhat different agenda--one linked with what some believe is more in line with the actual purpose of a university education. As one of the pioneers in the business of providing educational opportunities for alumni, Yale became the first university to devise a program by which alumni could come back as undergraduate students.


Because of Yale's preoccupation with the war, Gibbons could select virtually any class he desired. As an English major, he took nothing but literature courses. After retiring from a successful career in journalism and advertising, Gibbons traveled extensively. But while exploring the temples of Athens, Gibbons began to regret not having taken any history courses in college. So he came back to Yale, enrolled in Term Time, and signed up for a team-taught course called Periclean Athens. Setting a rather different example from most Term Timers, Gibbons decided to take his course for credit rather than auditing it. "I just wanted to see if I could do it," he insisted. Eight years later, Gibbons would still be taking courses for credit if his doctors had not told him to cool it. Despite recurring heart problems, he faithfully attended David Montgomery's course on the Civil War and Reconstruction. Unlike most students, he misses writing the papers, but like other Yalies complains that he is behind in his reading. Gibbons realizes that this too adds to the experience. "It makes me a true undergraduate," he said.


Although experiences vary significantly between returning veteran undergraduates, their general response appears to be one of overwhelming enthusiasm. Like Gibbons, many Term Timers consider this program a perfect opportunity to fill in the gaps in their academic pursuits. For instance, Peter West (DC '53) studied industrial engineering the first time around. Now, after participating in the program for five years, he has been hailed by friends as a foremost expert on Renaissance Art.


Raleigh D'Adamo (SM '53) uses the Term Tune program to add to the catalogue of languages which he has studied. He has attended classes in the morning, as well as in the evening after work. Among other things, he has audited three language courses-Swahili, Zulu, as well as a course on Egyptian Hieroglyphics. "It saves me from a simple and ordinary existence," said D 'Adamo, who is currently studying Arabic.


Simple and ordinary surely does not describe the experience of Neil Lombardi OE '49), and his wife, Ann. They participated in the program in the fall term of 1991. Lombardi, a lawyer from Kansas who learned about Term Time at a cocktail party, was beset by the extra task of finding satisfactory living arrangements.


Once situated in New Haven, Lombardi and his wife perused the blue book. "Our approach was that the professor was more important than the subject matter," he wrote in a term paper submitted to the Association of Yale Alumni. (AYA) While shopping classes he happened upon a Yale legend. "I walked into this class and found the professor leaning on his elbows across the broad seminar table with the pained and disheveled look of a man who has just gotten out of bed and doesn't like it," he wrote. "I had lucked onto Harold Bloom."


Lombardi also expounded on the student body. "They were a diverse, handsome, and lively group," he said. "[They] seemed to be both serious and full of fun." After much thought, the Lombardis decided not to don the rather "eccentric" outfit of the 90s college student. "If they regarded us as ancient oddballs, they were tactful about it, and gave us only an occasional quizzical glance," wrote Lombardi.


Despite almost being run over by a unicycle and two skateboards, Lombardi had few qualms about the current undergraduates. The impartiality with which he recounted information posted at Ashley's, however, revealed perhaps the aspects of Yale which Lombardi found most altered and "contemporary." Notices for Homicidal Lesbian Terrorists, African drumming workshops, and a group called Born Against highlighted his rather outlandish list.


In contrast to the variety of activities announced by the posters, certain student organizations remained Yale staples. "The Yale Daily News has a mixture of genuinely thoughtful editorials and gratuitously sarcastic criticism of the administration," Lombardi marveled."No change here from the 40s."


So then what has changed since these alums were students? West and his wife enrolled in the program at the same time that the youngest of their three children, Stuart West (DC '92), was also an undergraduate. The three family members found themselves reunited weekly in John Boswell's lectures on the Middle Ages. A family affair? The elder West says that the experience offered him an entirely different perspective. "We were on the same wavelength. "


Although West believes students might have been more strongly motivated in his day, he still finds present Yalies bright and eager. Though still bright and eager, the Yale student body of today no longer remains the exclusive, fraternal club that most alums remember. "Men bonding as men-there's no substitute for the camaraderie," said the language connoisseur, D 'Adamo. Nevertheless he believes that the presence of women allows for a more natural existence. West also hails admitting women as a tremendous improvement. "The whole place has a completely different type of feeling," he said.


While applauding the increased diversity of the student body, some alumni lament the crumbling residential college system. "I decry the growing number of off-campus undergraduates because it reduces Yale and its benefits to the community," D'Adamo said. Soon, he fears, Yale might resemble the European system where students come only for their classes. He believes that the college system engenders a loyalty to Yale that suffers if one does not fully participate.


Since D' Adamo enrolled in Term Time, he himself has worked to stem this trend. Once again he has become deeply involved with his former college, Silliman. In addition to supplying the college's print shop with valuable and technologically up-to-date equipment, D'Adamo is also willing to assist whenever extra help or expertise is needed. As an associate fellow of Davenport College, he also enjoys spending mealtimes with students and has on occasion invited students to his home for dinner.


But D 'Adamo feels saddened by the deterioration of propriety among students since his days at Yale. "Perhaps too much was tossed out in the 60s," he said. "Students have lost a certain amount of refinement-not snobbishness, but things such as dining room manners and higher methods of dress." Nevertheless, these surface criticisms belie his continuing admiration for today's Yalies. He considers the present college students a great inspiration. "If this is what the


**Title: Term Time at Yale**
**Author: Clare Connors**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
future has in store, my hopes and 
expectations are great," he said. 

Lombardi echoes D'Adamo's 
enthusiasm but recounts one rather 
disturbing experience. One night the 
cacophonous sounds of partygoers 
reached unbearable levels. Car alarms 
seared through the otherwise custom-
ary orchestra of noises. At their wits' 
end, the Lombardis called the police. 
The police Hstened attentively but did 
not take any action, for no shooting 
had occurred. 

Perhaps this experience symbolizes 
what is no more than a generation gap 
between the Term Timers and present 
Yalies in New Haven. It is exactly this 
generation gap which Gibbons relish-
es. Attending these classes not only 
provides a chance to keep his mind 
active, but also offers the opportunity 
to become more connected with "Yale 
today." 

Reconnecting alumni with the 
university was what the AYA had 
intended when it established the Term 
Time program. "It allowed alumni to 
come as a matter of right," said 
Eustace Theodore (PC '63), executive 
director of the AYA. 

Judy Cole, senior assistant direc-
tor of the AYA, admitted that the 
Association's emphasis on keeping 
alumni engaged and committed is not 
without its monetary aims. No institu-
tion can afford to ignore alumni pri-
marily because they provide both 
funds and input, without which a uni-
versity cannot operate. Theodore fur-
ther notes, however, that Term Time 
enhances perceptions of Yale. "Not 
many alumni say that Yale only wants 
money anymore." 

Although the large majority of 
former Yalies do not participate in 
Term Time, the thought that they can 
reassures them that Yale is still striving 
to fulfill the original purpose of the 
university. By demonstrating the via-
bility of Yale's commitment to further-
ing education, the AYA hopes that 
alumni will more eagerly involve 
themselves in the institution, either 
through financial or personal means. 

) ANUAJlY 28, 1994 
While D'Adamo works in the print 
shop, Gibbons has directed his energy 
towards chairing his class' reunion 
functions. 

Since Term Time is relatively new 
and still in a state of evolution, it is not 
without 
its 
JJ,c Yt~lc stut!c!lt 
/;otfJ' 110 lo11ucr 
. 
·" 
glitch-
rcn1tti11s the 
cxclusil'C club 
II/OS! ttft/11/S 
re 11/C 111 be1: 
es. 
"Once 
M 
you've been through the administra-
tive briar patch," said Gibbons, "you 
learn to find your way around." 

B 
ut if Term Time is in fact a tech-
nique by which to secure finan-
cial commitment and input 
from alums by re-introducing them to 
their alma mater, then is Yale's 
approach really an honest one? While 
the AYA seeks to provide a rewarding 
experience for its alums, does the per-
ception generated paint a truly com-
plete picture of the contemporary 
Yale? Certain things alums experienced 
did indeed disturb them, such as the 
loud, late-night parties, the deteriorat-
ing residential college system, and stu-
dent behavior. Although by" their own 
accounts, their experiences were 
undoubtedly positive ones, the ques-
tion remains whether or not they still 
fit into a campus now dominated by 
the youth of the 90s. Closing the gen-
eration gap, although not high on the 
list of AYA objectives, might simply be 
impossible. 

Despite these questions, Term 
Time at least recognizes the existence 
of these issues and seeks to address 
them. For years Yale has offered its 
alumni opportunities by which they 
can in effect "reenter" the academic 
aspect of Yale. Since 1977, the AYA 
has also sponsored a two-day event 
every June, during which time the 
alumni are not only wined and dined, 
but are also exposed to some of the 
most highly acclaimed professors at 
Yale. Term Time, though, provides a 
much more sustained and comprehen-
sive opportunity to engage in the 
ongoing process of learning. "Term 
Time," notes D'Adamo, "engenders in 
me warmer feelings about the universi-
ty, much more so than if Yale were 
[only] to throw cocktail parties." 

Gibbons adds that Term Time 
provides an attractive aspect to Yale 
because it discards the "superficial 
view" of the alumni experience. 

Although he does not discount the 
monetary tenets underlying such pro-
grams as the June Seminar, which he 
referred to as a showcase of sorts, he 
relishes the way which Yale provides 
alumni with an atmosphere reminis-
cent of the times they spent together at 
Yale. Theodore also mentions that 
when alums are again put in contact 
with the great minds ofYale, they have 
the chance to relive the experience 
they had when they were here for the 
first time. 

Yet the number of alums who 
participate in Term Time remains 
comparatively small. Obvious reasons, 
such as basic demographic restrictions, 
account in part for this disparity. In 
addition, few alums have the time to 
engage in such a long-term commit-
ment. Lombardi, though, maintained, 
"The only reason that more people 
haven't done Term Time is that they 
don't know about it." 

According to D ' Adamo, Term 
Time is Yale's best kept secret. More 
people, he believes, should participate 
for one very basic reason: "When you 
stop learning, you stop living." 

..:1 
Clare Connors is a sophomore in Ezra 
Stiles Colkge. 





--- Page 20 ---

-BETWEEN THE-VINES ----------------------
Getting In, Coming Out 
jay Porter 
I
t's easy to get a picture of Yale if your father or reacher or 
like to sell: happy campers, busy bees, future leaders. I tried 
neighbor went here. Complications arise if, like me, you 
to be all those things. When I arrived, I understood myself 
never met a Yale man or woman until after you were 
to be part of the visible majority of Yale students: I am a 
admitted. I knew at an early age that I wanted to leave my 
WASP male. Looking around, I was exs;jted by the cultural 
home state of Oklahoma for college. At some point, before 
diversity that Yale promised, a kind of diversity I had never 
doing any real research, I decided that Yale, Harvard, and 
seen. My first friends at Yale represerved a vast array of 
Princeton were on my short list. Why? people would ask. I 
states, races, and nations. I was fascinated that they spoke 
still can't give a simple answer, even with the benefit of 
Turkish, Korean, and Joisey when they called home; they, in 
hindsight. 
turn, laughed at the Okie twang I assumed when I called 
When pressed, I would say, «Because they're the best." I 
home. 
wasn't trying to be a snot, and people generally believed it. 
While I could see Yale's promised diversity, I began to 
It seemed like a better answer than, "Because I have to 
notice a homogeneity of outlook. Most of us came from 
escape." The closest I could ever come' to expressing why 
similar middle-class backgrounds, held similar political 
was that I was tired of my conservative upbringing and 
views, and when asked to describe how we saw ourselves in 
wanted to go "back East" and get a "liberal education." (In 
20 years, came up with similar idealized dreams of money, 
those halcyon days, I used the labels in their purely political 
fame, and 2.5 kids. That's what I wanted, too. At least that's 
senses: I realize now that they stand for a lot more.) But in 
what I said. 
some place, far beneath the layer of achievement, the veneer 
When I look back on the fall of my freshman year, I 
of the "good school citizen," I saw myself on the lam, a fugi-
realize that I should have recognized one habit as a symp-
tive from something unnamed. In spite of myself, in spite of 
tom of inner turmoil. I would sit on the window seat of my 
my love of home, in spite of the lucrative scholarships 
room in Bingham and write in my journal while staring at 
offered to me to stay in state, I knew that I was pushed and 
the gold-capped steeple of the United Church on the 
pulled by very powerful forces to flee to some imagined ivy-
Green. I was ostensibly where I wanted to be, living my 
dad paradise. 
dream, but outside of the gates of Yale-and outside of the 
I finally decided that if I could only get to the Ivy 
realm of the describable-something glinted in the sun and 
League, I could stop running. I could sit back and say, "I 
caught my eye. I would sit for hours and stare at it; when 
have arrived." I imagined becoming a Yale man 
winter's gray overtook the skies, I lost even that 
through some ancient rite of passage. My 
small pleasure. 
demonswouldbeexorcisedandicould SILENCE--DEA'JH 
As the semesters bled by, I 
continue my path to success. In the fall 
11 
began to feel more and more alone, 
of 1991 I finally did arrive at Yale, 
dangerously different from the 
and for a while my dream seemed 
busy Yalies around me, the peo-
real. Those were heady days; I 
ple who played intramurals 
surrounded myself with con-
and planned screw-your-
scant activity. I found that the 
roommate dances. I poured 
sadness that seeped up from 
myself into my work and this 
the flagstones wouldn't stick to 
magazine, and poured myself 
the soles of my shoes if I ran ~ 
f:'i 
too many drinks at parties. 
fast enough. As long as I trav-
0 
........,. 
I realize now what was 
eled in packs and didn't look 
~ 
$:$ 
missing. Yale had promised 
down. As long as I allowed 
C) 
me something, and I felt a lit-
myself to be subsumed into 
Q 
~ de bit cheated, even though 
Camp Yale, and eventually into 
~ 
i:J-.0 
things turned out all right. 
the larger chaos of freshman year. 
"V 
-~ 
When I visited Yale the April after 
vi•io~e!r~.~~ ~~:;~d~i~~~~~:k::" . ~0 
~ B~~ 
~~=~::!o~;~~!;'~::: 
~ C'otTNI1_t{. ~ 
20 THE NEW jOURNAL 
jANUAJtY 28, 1994 




--- Page 21 ---

about "One in four, maybe more." As a freshman and 
bisexual ever to graduate from Yale, will wake up one morn-
sophomore in Davenport College, I certainly didn't see 
ing and come out publicly. I have even constructed a small 
much of it. I wish I had known at least one person living in 
shrine (actually, just a pile of books) to openly gay profes-
my college who was openly gay: it might have saved me a 
sors such as Wayne Koestenbaum and John Boswell. I'm 
lot of loneliness. Sure, I heard about the meetings and 
intent on making up for the time I wasted trying to be a era-
marches, but I wasn't ready for that. I could argue eloquent-
ditional Yalie; now I'm just trying to be myself. 
ly for gay rights in the abstract-as a good Yale liberal-
Incorporating gays and lesbians into the mythology of the 
while maintaining the fading fiction that I was straight. 
Yale "man" helps me do that. If it upsets Old Blue, that's 
Once I moved into Davenport, there was no chance I 
just too bad. 
was going to deal with 
To that end, I 
my sexuality, no way to 
I realize now what was missinO' Yale had 
~pent some rime took-
face the facts of desire 
o· 
tng back on the recent 
and denial. Looking 
· d 
h · 
d Ifi l 
l' .1 b . history of the whole 
back, I see that beautiful promtse me somet. tng, an 
e t a lftte lt controversy-kicked off 
courtyard as one great 
h 
d I 
. h I h d k 
1 
by a Wall Street journal 
big closet: gray slate 
C eate · 
WlS 
a 
nown at teast One 
article written in the 
Gothic on the out 
• • · 
. 
summer of 1987-and 
side but-surprise-
person ltvtng tn my co/lege who was openly 
I think it illustrates 
Georgian and green on 
. 
. 
. 
some of the strange 
the inside. I have a lot of gay: tt mzght have saved me a lot of loneftness. properties of the Yale 
friends in Davenport, 
name. A short feature 
but every time I walk 
by freelance writer Julie 
inside I feel like I have something to hide. I have a theory 
Iovine (SY '77) appeared deep in the bowels of the 
that George Bush (DC '48) and William F. Buckley (DC 
journal. Titled "Lipsticks and Lords," it purported to 
'47) cast some sort of conservative spell on the place, but 
expose a thriving gay community at Yale so large and pow-
that's another story. Everyone told me Davenport was the 
erful that it could draw over 1,000 students to its Spring 
most straight-laced residential college. 
Gayla. Iovine somehow deduced from this figure that one 
The one image of Yale I needed the most to be true 
in four Yalies are homosexual. If the article had appeared in 
failed me for a time, only to prove itself intact later. I had to 
the San Francisco Chronicle or had discussed a less-famous 
move off-campus to deal with mysel£ Once I was safely set-
college, it would have raised precious few eyebrows. But five 
ded in my apartment, with two very supportive roommates, 
decades of wealthy Old Blue alumni were left fuming in the 
I found the gay Yale that had been promised by the slogan 
concrete canyons of Wall Street. Imagine their shame when 
and began the long process of coming out. Better late than 
they read that fateful line: "Suddenly, Yale has a reputation 
never. I think a lot of my classmates will be saying the same 
as a gay school." 
in the next few years: perhaps not quite one in four students 
If people didn't know it before, the ensuing ruckus 
are openly gay, but I think a lot of people here are less 
ensured that all of America heard that "Yale [is] now colored 
straight than they appear. My tenth reunion will be very 
mauve," as the National Review charmingly put it. The New 
revealing. 
York Times, Time, Newsweek, and dozens of other news out-
lets picked up the story. It faded soon enough: the story was 
shoddily reported, and the assertion that attendance at a 
dance equals sexual orientation was recognized by all to be 
laughable. Homosexual students were hun when President 
Benno Schmidt (TC '63, LAW '66), who had been at the 
Gayla himself, wrote an indignant letter to concerned alum-
ni decrying the story as "nonsense," "ludicrous," "drivel." It 
wasn't that far &om the truth, certainly not far enough for 
I
've been thinking recently about the whole concept of 
gays at Yale. We don't have a gay studies course, but 
there is something of an informal syUabus. I've read the 
famous Gay Yale Authors, from Larry Kramer (BK '57) to 
Paul Monette OE '67) to David Leavitt (TC '83). I've lis-
tened to the Cole Porter (' 1 0) songbooks religiously. I ding 
to the hope that Jodie Foster (CC '84), the most beautiful 
jANUARY 28, 1994 
THE NEW JouRNAL 21 


**Title:  A Fascinating Excursion into the Orient**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A FasO.nating Excursion into the Orient 
IS onlymmutes away afilie 
(~ ~¥-=tf ~) 
D 'tienta[,~anh.y 
The Fin est Oriental 
Groceries in New Haven 
China, Korea, japan, India, Indonesia·, 
Thailand, Middle East, Fresh Produce, 
Specialties, Cookbooks, Gifts, Utensils, 
Lunch, Video 
374 Whitney Avenue, New 
Haven 865-2849


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Jay Porter**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

those dyspeptic.Yalie bond traders (but 
then again, 1987 was a bad year for 
them altogether). 

W
at did the story do, then? 
Clearly, no applicant who 
would meet minimum Yale 
standards of tolerance rejected an offer 
of admission because of it. On the 
other hand, it seems possible that a 
number of qualified gay and lesbian 
applicants have felt more comfortable 
accepting Yale's offers in the years since 
because of the story: how could 
Harvard or Princeton compete with a 
whopping (if inaccurate) 25 percent? 
In pragmatic terms, a few of those 
indignant alumni pulled their contri-
butions, but the endowment didn't 
collapse and Yale weathered the storm. 
Unfortunately for me, though, my 
grandparents read the Wall Street 
Journal, too. I've never heard them 
mention "one in four," but I know 
they have pretty good sense of what 
goes on at Yale. They love the fact that 
I share an apartment with a French-
German male and an African-
American Jewish woman; it would 
not, however, be o.k. if they knew that 
Christoph is gay and Sara comes from 
a long line of communists. 
The point is, they know that Yale 
is extremely liberal and fear that I get 
more so with every day I spend here. 
Over Christmas break of my sopho-
more year, my grandfather called a 
family meeting-in my absence-to 
discuss just how far left I had strayed. 
(Over the dinner table the previous 
night I had suggested that fellow Yale 
man Bush should be indicted; some-
one tried to change subjects, and I 
ended up defending Madonna's sex 
book.) When my mother told me 
what had happened, I was mortified. 
They seemed ready to disown me for 
my politics: it convinced me that my 
sexuality was even more unacceptable 
and I rededicated myself to denying it. 
Luckily, a crisis was averted; they 
calmed down and we now try to avoid 
politics altogether. 
My parents' response to my com-
ing out has been textbook-perfect. 
They love their Yale boy uncondition-
ally: sexuality, politics, and all. Ifl were 
to flunk out tomorrow, they still 
would. But my grandparents-who are 
by now rather impatiently waiting for 
me to find Ms. Right-liked the pre-
Yale me better. For them, it's not qui-;:e 
a fair exchange: a great education, a lib-
eral worldview. When they find out 
I'm gay, though, all bets are off. 
I hate to tell my conservative 
friends (someone has to do it) but the 
fact is that "liberal" is the one word I 
most often hear when people ask me 
jANUARY 28, 1994


---

about Yale. Perhaps it's just a semantic 
problem (liberal arts vs. Liberal 
Democrat), or a demographic quirk of 
Oklahoma, but I doubt it. The fact is, 
quite simply, that people at home per-
ceive Yale to be a hotbed of just about 
everything: political correctness is 
assumed to dominate every aspect of 
life, and my old friends have visions of 
radical feminists and tree-hugging 
environmentalists running amok. I just 
smile and pull out my pictures: the vast 
oceans of J. Crew assuage their fears. 
I try to keep a sense of humor 
about the whole thing. Since I spent so 
many years saying "liberal" when I 
really meant "gay," a lot of things 
throw me off balance. When I visited 
my high school over Christmas, my 
old principal smiled broadly and 
asked, "So Jay, did you go off to Yale 
and turn into some big liberal?" I took 
a deep breath, looked him in the eye, 
lm intent on making 
up for the time 
I wasted trying to be 
a traditional Yalie; 
now, lm just trying 
to be myself 
and said, "No, Mr. Mathers. I was 
born that way." There was a moment 
of tension and then, inexplicably, we 
both laughed. 
Little encounters like that make 
me realize how being a Yale will make 
my life easier. People in the real world, 
like Mr. Mathers and even my grand-
parents-who otherwise wouldn't tol-
erate me as liberal or gay-may cut me 
a little slack. There are no sure talis-
mans against hate and prejudice, but 
I'm hoping that a little of that old Yale 
magic still goes a long way. 
..,. 
jay Porter, a junior in Davenport 
Colkge, is managing editor ojTN]. 


Since 1934, g 
or t e discerning 
America's Largest and Foremost Tobacconists 
•Music Boxes, Russian Lacquer Boxes •Expert Pipe Repairing 
•Chess, Backgammon 
•Tobaccos Blended To Individual Taste 
•Figurines, Wood Carvings 
•Writing Instruments, Bookends, 
.Crystal, Cutlery, Art Glass 
Paperweights 
624-3250 • 268 College Street, New Haven, CT 06510 


SAMURAI M 
for the finest in 
JAPANESE RESTAURANT "' ] apanese CUiSine 
· 
230Colleg~~:~;r6~ew Hawn 
• 
***Hartford Courant 
Featuring: Traditional Japanese Sushi Bar• Full 
Service Bar· Dally Lunch Specials ·Tern pura and 
Tertyakl Dinners 
Hours: Mon-Thurs 11 :30AM-1 O:OOPM I Fri-Sat 11 :30AM-11 :OOPM 
& Sun 3:00PM-1 O:OOPM 
Across the street from the Shubert Theater • Excellent for Christmas Parties 


**Title: Yale Symphony Orchestra**
**Page number(s): 23**

YaCe Symphony Orcliestra 
James 1Wss, Music 'Director 
Dohnanyi Variations on a Nursery Song 
Andrew Gerle JE '94, piano 
Schumann Phantasie 
Orchestrated by Mark Bradley 
Ravel Mother Goose Suite 
Satunfay, ~e6ruary 5 at 8:00pm in WoolSey !J{af{


**Title: 5 WAYS TO IMPROVE YOUR OUTLOOK ON LIFE**

'IDP 5\VAYS 
'ID 
IMI>f{()VE 
YOUR 
OUTLCJOK 
ON LIFE 
Win. the Lottery & 
Move to Tahiti 
Transcendental 
Meditation 
Leave Your Spouse 
Psychoanalysis


DINNER AT SHAWN'S 
Dinner rest!lv.lcions rccornmcndcd 
Open 7 days . Major credit cards~


Resumes) tabletents) 
posters) course Wtaterial) 
typesetting froWt 
Macintosh disks 
&whatnot ... 
4-32-copy (432-2679) 
September, ()ctober, 
January) February: 
8-6:30 Mon-Fri 
lVovember, l)ece~ber, 
March) April) May: 
8-s:oo Mon-Fri 
Copies 
only 
4-¢* 
Still the 
lowest 
przces 
in Elm 
City! 
• per copy for more than ten copiu 
of the same origi,ai; 
the price is 4J.} cuus each 
for one to tm copies.

