Publication date: September 4, 1987
Volume: 20
Issue number: 1

**MASTHEAD:**
- None present in provided text


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
About This Issue
NewsJournal
Between the Vines
Features
Books
Afterthought


**Title: Lost in Thought**
**Author: John Gill**
**Page number(s): 3**

It's three in the morning, and you've just got to have twenty dollars. But, no 
matter how much you shake him, your roommate just won't wake up. Twenty 
dollars at three in the morning, with an opportunity of a lifetime staring you in the 
face. Who do you turn to? Quick Draw 24, of course. 

New Haven Savings Bank's automated teller is open 24 hours a day, 365 days a 
year. And it's right across the green from the campus. In minutes you can have 
your cash and the time of your life. You don't have a Quick Draw 24 card? Pity. 
They're so easy to get. Just stop in and complete an application at 195 
Church Street. Do it today, because opportunity rarely knocks twice. 


**Title: About This Issue**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 5**


**Title: NewsJournal**
**Page number(s): 6**


**Title: Between the Vines**
**Page number(s): 10**


**Title: Features**
**Page number(s): 14**


**Title: Books**
**Page number(s): 42**


**Title: Afterthought**
**Page number(s): 44**


Headway in the TA dispute ... Yale loses face on Wall Street ... New York Yale 
Club leaves the dark ages . . . scandal at WYBC.


**Title: Guess Who's Coming to Dinner?**
**Author: James Bennet**

A student uses his Yale training to stick cedar shingles up against the classics of 
European literature. He barely survives. By John Gill.


**Title: Scaling Walls**
**Author: John Stella**

Yale food: You've eaten it, praised it, condemned it. But have you ever thought about it? 
Chicken basquaise, the lowest product of Yale's intricate food chain, offers us all a fresh 
start. By James Bennet.



**Title: Labor of Love**
**Author: Jennifer Sachs**

A fish grows in Bridgeport, the result of months of effort by Yale architecture students. 
Pulling their brains and their hands to work, they are creating a place for music in a 
troubled city. By John Stella.


**Title: Medical Mystery Tour**
**Author: Cindy Cameros**

Nurse-midwives earn low salaries and surprisingly little respect for delivering babies, a 
job which involves nurturing mother as well as child. Many of them can't imagine doing 
anything else. By Jennifer Sachs.


**Title: An Informed Assemblage**
**Author: Natalu Zemon Davis**

In-vitro fertilization spawns fast cars, dirty doctors and thrilling intrigue in the expert 
hands of Yale Medical School's Mary Lake Polan. By Cindy Cameros.


The New Journal/September 4, 1987 3



**Title: About This Issue**
**Author: A New Journal Journal**
**Page number(s): 5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Friday, August 28: 
It's the first 
evening of production weekend for the 
magazine, and the executive board just 
finished brainstorming cover ideas 
over a bad mushroom pizza. Having 
chosen the architecture piece for the 
cover, 
we debated 
different sug-
gestions, 
considering and 
then 
abandoning a collage of photos. We 
decided to combine drawings of the 
bandshell with one large picture and 
then turned to the color. "I was 
thinking of a blue background, with 
the lines of the drawing screened in a 
lighter shade." "H ow about a dark 
blue, with the lines in white to suggest 
blueprints?" We'll reconvene tomorrow 
morning to choo$e a photo and a shade 
of blue. Now, one writer is trying to 
come up with a headline for the Mid-
wives piece: "I want nurturing, I want 
hugs." Another is scratching out a 
correction he just made in the copy. 
"I'm illiterate," he explained. 

This is 
the 
final stage of the 
magazine's 
production, 
a 
process 
which began four months ago, was 
carried for the summer to New York, 
Washington, and California, and re-
turned to New H aven in the middle of 
August. It culminates in a week, when 
we distribute 11,000 copies throughout 
the campus. Then it all starts over 
again. 

We're 
The 
New Journal, 
an 
undergraduate magazine covering 
Yale and New H aven. We publish six 
times during the school year, each 
issue presenting the same format: 
feature stories, including news stories 
and profiles; Between the Vines, a 
section devoted to thoughtful opinion 
pieces; the Afterthought, an essay 
written by an expert in a field of 
interest to the Yale community; book 
reviews; letters; and the Newsjournal, 
in which we offer short news items and 
update past features. The New Journal is 
completely advertiser-supported and 
student-run, with a Board of Directors 
drawn from New Haven and Yale. 

In the past five years, four of our 
features have won Yale nonfiction 
writing prizes. The New Republic ran a 
condensed version of a 
New Journal 
cover story on Accuracy in Academia. 
CBS turned a cover story on a New 
H aven prostitute with AIDS into a 
segment for 60 Minutes; the same story 
won a Rolling Stone College Journalism 
award for investigative reporting. And 
for three years in a row, The New 
Journal has won top honors from the 
Columbia University 
Press 
Association. 

We welcome your responses to our 
stories. Please write and let us know 
what you liked, what you didn't like, 
and what you'd like to add. And we'd 
love to have your help. The New Journal 
is looking for writers, photographers, 
designers and salespeople. We have 
planned an organizational meeting for 
Wednesday, September 9, in the Silli-
man common room, and we hope to 
see you there. 

Enjoy the issue, and look for us in 
October. 

• 
-JB 


The New Journal encourages letters to 
the editor and comment on Yale and 
New Haven issues. Write to James 
Bennet, Editorials, 62 Yale Station, 
New Haven, CT 06520. All letters for 
publication must include address and 
signature. The New Journal reserves the 
right to edit all letters for publication.


**Title: NewsJournal**
**Author: Susan Orenstein**
**Page number(s): 6**

Solid Progress 

While undergraduates fled 
New 
Haven for the summer, both TA 
Solidarity and the Graduate School 
administration separately made pro-
gress in their efforts to improve life for 
teaching 
assistants 
at Yale. 
Graduate School deans came up with 
the job descriptions that the TAs 
demanded last spring (TNJ 4/17/87). 
Fifteen core members of TA Solidarity 
planned to raise the group's profile this 
fall and dug up a law that may force 
Yale to modify its wage structure.  

TA Solidarity, a small but growing 
association of graduate students, 
formed last spring to address perceived 
problems with the TA system. This 
fall, the group plans a lobbying effort 
among students and faculty and a 
letter-writing campaign directed at 
Benno Schmidt to pressure the University 
into responding to 
their 
complaints. 

The University has already ad-
dressed 
one flaw 
in 
the TA 
system- the lack of detailed job 
descriptions and grading and teaching 
standards . 

According 
to Robert 
Bunselmeyer, associate dean of the 
Graduate 
School, 
committee of 
Graduate School deans wrote a new 
handbook for TAs which provides this 
information. Both administrators and 
TAs anticipate that the handbook, just 
recently published, will help to ensure 
greater understanding of responsi-
bilities and uniformity in grading. The 
handbook also speaks to first-timers, 
giving 
them information about 
teaching at Yale. 

Although they acknowledge the Uni-
versity's efforts, TAs still feel bitter 
about their financial woes. Their 
maximum earnings as teachers for the 
University, they claim, do not meet 
Yale's stated estimate for cost of living 
expenses in New Haven. "The real 
problem we have is just breaking 
through 
to the 
Administration, 
because whenever money is in ques-
tion, their tendency is to say no," said 
Karen Sawislak, a third-year student 
in history. As a member of TA Soli-
darity, she will seek support among her 
fellow graduate students as soon as 
they show up for registration this fall, 
urging them to write to Benno Schmidt 
about their finances. 

A number say that in addition to 
inadequate salaries, they encounter 
problems with late paychecks, espe-
cially when the rent is due. Eben 
Werber had been working at the Yale 
Law School library for over a month 
without receiving his first monthly 
check. His frustration led him to call 
the Connecticut Labor Board, whose 
head in the wages division stopped him 
mid-story: Yale was breaking the law, 
the man said, just by paying Werber 
on a monthly instead of a weekly 
schedule. 

Intrigued, Werber re-
searched statute no. 31-71 and learned 
that Connecticut law requires all 
employers in the state to pay their 
employees every week. Employers can 
obtain a waiver from the law, but Yale 
had none on record with the Board. 

Yale currently pays its professional 
staff, from TAs to Benno Schmidt, 
monthly. 

Werber said that after notifying Ken 
Miller, 
Yale's 
assistant general 
counsel, about the law, he received a 
hand-delivered paycheck from Yale the 
next day. Since that day last July, he 
and other TAs have been pushing the 
University to start paying them more 
frequently, threatening to file a civil 
claim form if Yale doesn't comply. 

"We're just at the point of deciding 
what the law says and how we have to 
respond to it," Miller said. He added 
that he knew of no university in 
Connecticut that pays its professional 
employees every week. 

While waiting for the University to 
make its decision, members of TA 
Solidarity are planning for the fall. 
They have a general meeting sche-
duled for the first week of classes, and a 
fundraising dance soon after that. 
They also plan to start selling buttons 
and T-shirts- both the color of money. 
They've discussed withholding grades 
at the end of the semester, but the 
threat remains muted. "It's not going 
to be the first thing we're going to do," 
said Sawislak. "We don't want to do 
anything confrontational 
without 
explaining our situation to the admini-
stration and giving them every chance 
to understand." 


**Title: Yale's Makeover**
**Author:  U.S. News & World Report**

'Lipsticks' and Lords: Yale's New Look 

Yale's Makeover 

Nat Hentoff called 
it 
most 
courageous piece of journalism on 
higher education that he'd ever seen, 
but at Yale, outrage might be a better 
word to associate with Julie Iovine's 
article in The Wall Street Journal of 
August 4. Entitled "'Lipsticks' and 
Lords: Yale's New Look," Iovine's 
article makes Yale and its inhabitants 
seem 
well, just a 
little bit 
eccentric. From drag parades to food-
throwing bacchanals at the Rock-
ingham Club, Iovine chronicled some 
of Yale's more colorful events-and 
managed to offend students, admini-
strators and_especially alumni doing it. 

Iovine, 
Yale alumna who is 
married to literature professor Peter 
Demetz, said that she originally wrote 



**Lipsticks and Lords**
**Author: Jennifer Sachs**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• I
the piece for Vogue, intending it to be a 
fairly lighthearted look at new trends 
on campus. But her subjects have 
apparently taken her seriously, delu-
ging the journal with letters contesting 
what they say are inaccuracies in 
Iovine's reporting. Early in the piece, 
Iovine wrote that one of her subjects 
"received a notice before registering 
freshman year that said one in · four 
Yale students was gay." Dean of 
Student Affairs Betty Trachtenberg, 
who supervises freshman mailings, 
contends that no such pamphlet was 
distributed. "We don't even keep 
statistics like that," she said. And Sara 
Cohen, the student who allegedly 
made the remark, charged that Iovine 
"grossly misrepresented" her. 
Fritz Reichenbach, president of the 
Rockingham Club, also disputed Io-
vine's portrayal <;>f his organization. In 
a letter published in the Journal of 
August 21, Reichenbach attacked Io-
vine's "lack of ti~ativity and sense of 
adventure." He 
called 
her "con-
descending" attitude toward his club 
"odd, since she reveled in the same 
excess as we" during a visit. Iovine 
laughed at this comment. "I didn't 
throw any food, give me a break. I had 
a good time- I drank a lot of cham-
pagne-but I didn't throw food." 
Many Yale alumni, however, are 
not amused. Trachtenberg reported 
that "the wires are really burning" with 
calls from angry graduates, and college 
deans are preparing for questions from 
worried parents. At least one dean has 
made "Lipsticks' and Lords" required 
reading for her freshman counselors, 
so that they can correct mistaken 
impressions left by the article. One 
that Iovine will concede: a person who 
studies too much is called a dweeb, not 
a "tweeb." "That one was mv editor's 
fault," she said. "H e said it w~s tweeb. 
and he sounded so sure of himself. so I 
ga"e in." 
10\·ine rf>mains puzzled at the storm 
her article has created. "I just went in 
to find out what was the campus scene. 
and what people told me was on their 
What's missing from this picture? 
minds, was what I wrote about. I was 
going to do political stuff, but it's so 
obviously in abeyance right now that 
there didn't seem to be a point to going 
into it." Did she, as some critics have 
charged, write the piece in anger? "No, 
of course not! I love Yale!" 


**Everybody In**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

In the Yale Alumni Weekly of October 
29, 1915, an article about the new Yale 
Club of Manhattan touted its "com-
plete Turkish bath establishment," 
where a Yale man could enjoy a sauna 
and an alcohol rub or oil massage. 
Ever since 1915, men have strolled 
from the locker room to the steam 
room and then into the pool- all in th~ 
nude. First admitted in 1974, women 
members have had to forego the joys of 
the Turkish bath. But by the end of 
September, costly renovations will give 
women access to the pool. They will 
have their own sauna and masseuse, 
too. 

"I don't know why the women in the 
Yale Club have gotten all upset," said 
Thorn Pak (ES '86), a trader for 
Kidder Peabody. "The pool is really 
tiny. It's like a small tub." Pak never 
uses the pool himself but says he sees 
"naked, fat old men there all the time. 
It should be very interesting to see 
what happens when it goes co-ed." 

If women are not welcomed into the 
pool with open arms, at least they can 
count on continuing to use the rest of 
the Club. They can even have their 
hair cut at the barbershop on the 
seventh floor. At five dollars, it gives 
the cheapest haircuts in town- what 
one 
member called "a regular 
conservative old cut." "Yeah, I cut 
women's hair," the barber said. "I give 
'ern all a crew cut." 

Other innovations abound. This 
year undergraduates got the chance to 
use the Yale Club during the summer 
for a mere 50 dollars, though they had 
to pay 50 more to use the athletic 
facilities. Forty-three Yalies joined, 
and on Thursday nights brought 
guests to the 22nd floor for cocktail 
hour. Hundreds of summer interns 
swarmed over the complimentary hors 
d'oeuvres, took in the view of midtown 
Manhattan from the rooftop terrace, 
and charged drinks to their hosts' 
accounts. "It's like a SAC party with 
wanna-be grownups," said Kevin 
Kiernan (SM '88), a summer employee 
at First Boston Investment Bank. 

Those who wanna be must dress 
accordingly. 
The 
Yale 
Club still 
strictly enforces its dress code, which 
even the employees must observe. In 
the white marble lobby the doormen 
wear livery suitable for decorated army 
generals and the desk clerks all sport 
navy blue suits, white shirts, and blue 
ties. "They make us wear blue," Joe 
Genty said with a 
grimace. ' He 
manages the lobby's gift shop which 
sells, among other things, cigars, 
cigarettes, 
Turns, 
Dentyne, Old 
Campus stationery, Bulldog paper-
weights, Yale pennants, Yale tote bags, 
Yale beach towels, and men's ties 
embroidered with residential college 
insignias. The gift shop also carries a 
businesswoman's navy bow tie with 
little white Y's sprinkled on it. Not his 
best selling item , Genty admitted. 

But the dress code seems unlikely to 
go the way of the aquatic n udes. A 
recen t graduate who used to wear tie-
dyed t·shirts and army surplus pants at 
Yale showed up at the Club one 
Thursday evening this summer in a 
gray pinstripe suit, a white shirt, and a 
red tie, and confessed that he was 
working for a law firm in the city. 
"But," he said, turning around so his 
friends could see a tiny·wisp of a pony 
tail at the back of his head, "I haven't 
sold ou t, not yet." 
-Sarah Thailing 


**Mixed Signals**
**Author: Hezdi Schulman**
**Page number(s): 8**

T he posters now appearing all over 
cam pus tell the story of an organi-
zation in flux- they list over a dozen 
positions available at WYBC, Yale's 
beleaguered radio station. YBC has 
faced more than its share of troubles in 
recent years. Just two years after the 
station shut down due to financial and 
organizational problems and reopened 
promising sweeping structural 
changes, YBC members have learned 
that two members of their executive 
board have resigned, charged with 
using 
corporate credit cards for 
personal purchases. 

According to Susan Takemoto (PC 
'88), the treasurer of YBC, one of the 
students approached her last year and 
asked her to supply employment veri-
fication for what she believed at the 
time was a 
personal credit card. 
H owever, when American Express is-
sued two cards in early 1987, they bore 
the names of the students and of YBC 
radio station. T he students then made 
almost $3000 worth of purchases on 
the 
American 
Express cards, 
at 
locations includ ing J. P ress, Quality 
Wines, Macy's Junior Dresses and 
Leather Goods departments, Brux· 
elles, Body and Sole, and local florist 
shops. YBC General Manager Colin 
Clarke said that "not one of these 
purchases could conceivably have been 
for the station." 

One of the students involved in the 
use of the credit cards conceded that 
some of his purchases were not for the 
station. He said, however, that his 
$900 bill included over $200 in albums 
for YBC's collection, and numerous 
restauran t 
tabs for meetings with 
advertising clients. 

The student 
claimed that he tried to pay the bill 
with a personal check sent via Dean 
Lloyd Suttle along with an explanation 
that YBC should not be held respon-
sible for the amount owed, but as of 
August 21 American Express h ad not 
received this payment. 

The other student, who declined to 
be interviewed, allegedly ran up a bill 
of about $2000 on his credit card. 
According to YBC, he paid $1200 
toward his account, using two station 
checks of $600 each. T akemoto said 
that she had presigned the first check 
for emergency expenses before she left 
for spring b reak last year. The second, 
she said, was presen ted to her as the 
bill for a car rental. R esponsibility for 
paying the balance of the accounts now 
falls to the two students; YBC does not 
plan to take any legal action unless 
American Express sues the station for 
repayment. 

Despite this recent embarrassment, 
YBC members hope that 1987 will be a 
banner year for them. They predict 
profits of $50,000, twice what they 
netted in 1986, and have bought a few· 
pieces of new equipment: a broadcast 
console, a more powerful transmitter, 
a new computer, and an antenna that 
will allow the station to broadcast at 
3500 watts. 
- Hezdi Schulman 


**Title: Between the Vines**
**Author: John Gill**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Lost in Thought 
Some homeowners place clear plastic 
over their furniture in the belief that 
this makes the upholstery's beauty 
more enduring. They step back, ad-
miring their handiwork, delighted that 
they have added something functional 
and attractive. In a similar fashion, 
Yale students, assuming that the ad-
dition of their observations helps all 
ideas make a lasting impression, tend 
to place a transparent layer of intellec-
tual artificiality over anything they 
think about. There lies a certain 
danger in thinking too much and ex-
periencing too little. 


Plastic over fabric is just fine, if you 
are content to have your living room 
sofa serve merely as a conversation 
piece. If, however, you have any in-
terest in actually experiencing your 
sofa- if you actually sit down on 
it- and you happen to be wearing 
shorts, your thighs soon get all sweaty 
and stick to the plastic and make moist, 
offensive squishing noises whenever 
you shift your weight. The thin syn- · 
thetic substance you have placed bet-
ween 
yourself and your sofa, 
something which was meant to in-
crease your appreciation of an object, 
has in fact distanced you from that ob-
ject. Yale trains your mind to do that 
to the world. 


The primary skill emphasized in the 
Yale education - close analysis of an 
object or idea- simply cannot be ap-
plied successfully to all aspects of life 
outside of an academic setting. In 
situations which require just the op-
posite sort of skill, the ability to react 
flexibly 
or spontaneously, 
the 
possessor of an overly-trained mind 
may have trouble adapting. One Yale 
student I know, continually ensures 
himself of romantic failure by insisting 
on discussing with any would-be love 
interest the repercussions of a potential 
first kiss, as per.tains to (a)Where this 
kiss will lead; (b )How appropriate this 
kiss may be considered, given the time 
elapsed; and (c) What degree of respect 
each kisser will command vis-a-vis the 
other 
kisser 
with the 
successful 
co nsummation of said kiss. 


I suspect that every Yale student 
knows a number of people like this. 
Such a person thinks too well and 
thereby finds a problem for every solu-
tion. T he preponderance of this mind-
set on the Yale campus helps to explain 
why student publications tirelessly run 
articles dealing with the age-old theme: 
"Why there is no sex at Yale." 


The Yale social fabric is an awkward 
thing with big, floppy lapels and small 
buttons which constrict one's breathing 
when fastened. For many of us, it 
seems to find its way out of dead 
storage only twice a year- for the 
Christmas and Spring balls-and not 
even alterations by Rosey's cleaners 
can get the old thing to fit. Students 
must look elsewhere for Yale's strong 
suit. With an assortment of 55 dif-
ferent libraries in all sizes, shapes and 
colors, the Yale undergraduate can 
always be stressed to kill. 


The 
only 
campus 
locale 
approximating a 
student 
center, 
however, is Machine City, a sterile 
underground conglomeration of fluor-
escent lights and white formica 
scrunched between two huge libraries. 
This location is strikingly appropriate, 
because no matter where on campus a 
Yale student may emerge, he usually 
appears to be "between libraries"- as if 
he would really feel more comfortable 
scrutinizing a document in the stacks 
than carrying on an unstructured 
conversation. 


Many 
Yale 
students share the 
nagging need to dig too far, to pull an 
idea apart ruthlessly until· it lies 
sprawled out on the dissecting tray 
bearing no resemblance to what it 
started out as. Once you have spent a 
few years at Yale, the tendency to over-
analyze everything follows you relent-
lessly, no matter how far from New 
Haven you wander: you can run, but 
you cannot hide. Last summer, as I 
worked on a construction site, this 
unshakeable 
tendency 
tracked 
me 
down. 


I had decided to get involved in 
construction in order to exercise my 
body and give my brain a partial rest 
from the strains of academia. I did not 
abandon my academic interest in li-
terary analysis entirely- I read nearly 
every night when I wasn't too tired 
from work- but my greatest pleasure 
derived unquestionably from the novel 
experience of working with my hands. 


During my first weeks on the job, I 
learned how to shingle the walls and 
roof of a beach house. At first I found 
myself concentrating too intensely on 
the task, with the result that I often 
drove nails in crooked or split shingles 
in half. After a while, however, I 
learned to let my mind relax. I did my 
thinking at home. At work I let my 
body take over, and before long I could 
align shingles effortlessly and get a 
smooth rhythm going, sinking one nail 
after another without giving it a 
thought. 


The only ground rule I established 
for myself was that I must always leave 
my book at home when I went to work 
in the morning. Physical exertion and 
mental exertion · were equally im-


--- Page 11 ---

With an assortment of 
55 different libraries, 
the Yale undergraduate 
can always be stressed 
to kill. 

portant to me; each had its separate 
place in 
my day, and neither 
encroached upon the other. Then one 
sweaty August afternoon, something 
happened which threatened to disturb 
the serene order of my summer. As my 
fellow laborer and I unloaded a pack of 
cedar roofing shingles, a tiny blue-and-
white leaflet appeared from within the 
pile, fluttered momentarily in the 
breeze, then settled gently on the laces 
of my left work boot. 


"FREE LITERATURE," the leaflet 
announced. I was intrigued. I knelt 
slowly to pick up the slip of paper, 
which informed me that "information 
on 
use and 
application of 
certigrade 
shingles 
is 
to 
be found in colorful and descriptive 
literature available from: Red Cedar 
Shingle and Handsplit Shake Bureau." 


As a literature major, I could not 
with good conscience pass up the 
opportunity to examine a new form of 
literature. But here was a curiosity I 
should never have indulged. I should 
have known not to try to weave 
together the two halves of my day. I 
should have remained satisfied to lead 
a double life-a construction worker 
by day, a Deconstruction worker by 
night. 


That very evening, however, I sent 
off for my free literature, and when it 
finally arrived at my door, I was quite 
impressed with its quality. The shingle 
entitled Timeless Beauty: Red 
Cedar Shingles and Handsplit Shakes, 
seemed unusually well written for a 
piece of advertising. In fact, one 
especially poetic portion of the catalog 
stuck in my head. 


Red cedar. An enduring wood. 
Richly textured. Strong. 
Natural. A wood to touch. And be 
touched by. 


These lines reminded me of a famous 
stanza written 
by the 
nineteenth 
century poet George Pope Morris: 


Woodman, spare that tree! 
Touch not a single bough! 
In youth it sheltered me, 
And I'll protect it now. 


The catalog's repetition of the key 
word "touch," as well as the recurring 
man/wood motif, seemed almost an 
intentional allusion to the Morris 
poem, but of course this was only a 
shingle catalog I had before me, so I 
shrugged off this notion of intertextual 
reference and went to bed. 


At work the next day, the catalog 
repeatedly entered my thoughts. Even 
while I 
nailed rows of shingles, 
recollections of the surprisingly fine 
writing of Timeless Beauty distracted me 
from my task. Just before quitting 
time, a painful splinter of red cedar 
penetrated my right index finger 
underneath the nail. 


Returning home, 
I 
postponed 
removal of the splinter and headed 
straight for my copy of Timeless Beauty. 
As I flipped through its pages, I ran 
across a provocative passage which 
appeared to parallel the climactic scene 
of James Joyce's Ulysses: 


It makes sense to have family friends 
next door. Another good friend to 
have around: red cedar fancy-butt 
shingles. "They put a happy yet 
superbly functional face on any 
hideaway. 


Few will deny that Joyce's Molly 
Bloom has a "fancy butt," and in the 
final section of Ulysses, Molly takes 
exception to the way her husband 
Leopold frequently puts his "happy yet 
superbly functional face" upon this 
fancy butt of hers: "living with him so 
cold never embracing me except 
sometimes when hes asleep the wrong 
end of me . . . any man thatd kiss c. 
womans bottom Id throw my hat at 
him." 


The subtle stylization of Timeless 
Beauty's prose so craftily duplicated 
Joyce that my esteem of the catalog 
grew enormously. Perhaps, I thought, 
the earlier allusion to the Morris poem 
had not been my imagination. My 
interest in Timeless Beauty intensified, 
but I still remained somewhat skeptical 
about its literary value. 


By the following morning, however, 
my skepticism was rapidly dimini-
shing. All during work I simply could 
not get my mind off Timeless Beauty and 
its very special way with words. When 
I examined my work at the end of the


--- Page 12 ---

day, I discovered that I had nailed an 
entire wall of shingles slightly askew. 


That night, I read a stanza of lovely 
shingle poetry which convinced me 
that Timeless Beauty, in its pivotal scene, 
assures us of its quality, advising 
prospective critics that it would be pure 
folly to deny the Red Cedar Shingle 
and Handsplit Shake Bureau's claim as 
a literary power in its own right: 


"Unscheduled inspections, conducted 
by expert shingle and shake 
'patrolmen,' virtually guarantee that 
these products will be the highest grade 
attainable." 


"I am my own critic,"Timeless Beauty 
seemed to say, "so don't waste your 
breath." 


So maybe I have been too critical, I 
thought. I went back to the catalog and 
perused the text for deeper meaning, 
stopping short at the theatrical words: 


"Carefree vacations require carefree 
vacation homes. Enter red cedar." 


Here I immediately recognized the 
drama and poetic 
resonance of 
Shakespeare's immortal line from Act 
I, Scene ii of The Tempest: "Enter 
Ferdinand." Although Timeless Beauty 
does not hesitate to borrow some of the 
dramatic energy of Shakespeare, I 
concluded, 
the dynamic 
shingle 
novella demonstrates that the addition 
of red cedar shingles makes it more 
durable than anything Shakespeare 
ever wrote. Shakespeare could not 
survive The Tempest; it was his last play 
and he never wrote anything again. 
Timeless Beauty, 
however, 
has the 
literary strength to endure a tempest, 
and any other storm for that matter, 
because "even in 
harsh coastal 
environments, red cedar and handsplit 
shakes retain their beauty . . . and 
they'll withstand hurricane-force 
winds." 


I was well pleased with my critical 
analysis. If I 
could discover an 
emerging literary force behind those 
thinly split, oddly shaped scraps of 
wood, 
thought, 
then 
would 
understand red cedar shingles better 
each time I picked one up and nailed it 
onto a house. My superior education 
could not fail to make me the most


**The Shingle Metaphor**
**Author: John Gill**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
proficient nailer of shingles the 
construction company had ever seen. 

First thing the next morning I 
smashed my thumb with a hammer. 
The tender skin beneath my thumbnail 
turned purple, then black. 

That afternoon, returning late from 
lunch, I brought Timeless Beauty with 
me to work. Throughout the remain-
der of the afternoon I took countless 
illegal breaks, so that while all the 
other fellows 
were 
building with 
shingles, I was reading about them. 
Shortly after three o'clock I flattened 
my hand with a hammer again. This 
time the wound bled profusely, and my 
red-faced foreman sent me home with 
an angry warning that I had better 
shape up. I spent the. rest of the day 
and most of the evening reading 
Timeless Beauty. With midnight 
approaching, I recalled a key passage 
from War and Peace relevant to red 
cedar shingles, and sprinted eagerly to 
the bookshelf to remove my copy of the 
classic. My eyes soon welled · with 
tears, as I made what I considered my 
most startling literary discovery :-.yet: 
Tolstoy, in his spectacular and very, 
very long novel War and Peace, (I said to 
myself) betrays 
a 
certain self-
consciousness about the weakness of 
his book's structure in the absence of 
red cedar shingles. In Book III, 
Tolstoy describes the destruction by 
fire of a Russian barn, an unmis-
takable symbol for the Russian novel 
itself, as he anticipates the inevitable 
figurative collapse his work will 
undergo when compared with shingle 
narratives of the future: "The walls 
were all in flames and the back had 
fallen in ... The crowd was obviously 
waiting to see the roof fall in." 

If Tolstoy had employed red cedar 
shingles as 
literary device, 
I 
reasoned, the barn would 
most 
certainly be more durable, and the 
edifice of his novel- and indeed of all 
Slavic literature- would today stand 
taller and without doubt more pleasing 
to the eye. 

Flushed with 
continued my 
discussion. But 
moistened brow, 
my achievement, I 
complex literary 
as I mopped my 
a salty sweat stung 
the cuts on my fingers, stopping me 
abruptly mid-exegesis. 

Staring at 
Timeless Beauty through the parted 
digits of my battered, bleeding hands, 
I reflected on my life since the fateful 
arrival of the "Free Literature." 
What had I done? I · asked myself. 
My hands were mere bloody stumps. 
My work had suffered atrociously. I 
had come to the conclusion that 
Timeless Beauty, 
a shingle catalog, 
embodies the entire Western and 
Slavic literary traditions, cnttques 
them, and then goes further 
extending beyond them tran-
scending them. But how much more 
did I now know about shingles? 

And as I pondered all that had 
happened to me during the previous 
week, I grew increasingly hot and 
uncomfortable. The sweat had become 
unbearable. Shifting my weight in my 
chair, I sensed uneasily that despite my 
best intentions, my thighs had begun 
to stick to a certain layer of clear plastic 
and I still had only a vague notion of 
what the fabric really felt like. 

• 
John Gill is a senior in Timothy Dwight.



**Guess Who's Coming to Dinner?**
**Author: James Bennet**
**Page number(s): 15**

It's 6:15 on Tuesday, September 15, 
you're waiting in line, and you're 
h u ngry. Slowly you shuffle forward. 
You take a tray and napkin. You take a 
knife, fork and spoon. You take a few 
m ore steps. And you come face to face 
with your first major decision since 
lunch: the cards above the steaming 
trays advertise Pasta Primavera, 
Shrimp Chow Mein, and Chicken Bas-
quaise. Chicken what? You're not sure 
you can pronounce it, and you know 
you've never seen it before. It looks 
red, 
stewing amid tomatoes, 
onions, and green peppers. Kind of 
interesting. The student worker, plate 
in one hand and ladle in the other, 
catches your eye. You look at the 
shrimp. You look at the pasta. You ask 
for the chicken. 

At least one student will not agonize 
over the choice. Sasha Grutman (BK 
'89) learned the recipe for a dish called 
"poulet basquaise" while attending 
C ordon Bleu culinary school in Paris 
the summer before last. When the 
Berkeley d ining hall representative 
a pproached 
him 
for 
recipes, 
he 
Chick en basquaise in th e rou gh. 
suggested poulet basquaise. 
And 
forgot all about it. "T his is the first I've 
heard of it," he said. "I'm really kind of 
shocked- I didn't think anyone would 
take it seriously." On Sept. 15, the 
Yale dining halls will offer chicken 
basquaise to 5000 people. 

Food is big business at Yale. It is a 
business in which Alan Kenney, d irec-
tor of Yale's dining halls, can talk 
about buying "10, 15, maybe 20,000 _ 
pou nds of an item" one moment and 
the next be on the telephone describing 
the specific knife someone needs: "I 
think that's the Dexter number 17. 
That's the knife you want. We buy 
them in H artford." It is a business 
based on volume. "On a good day we 
serve about 20,000 meals. That's 
4,000,000 per year," said Kenney OE 
'67). The dining halls operate on an 
$18 million budget, $6 million of 
which goes for food. At Yale, about 
820 people make the meals. T hey 
make them out of the 13,000 30-pound 
cases of frozen vegetables and fries that 
are ordered each year, out of the 
$65,000 worth of hard rolls and French 
Last April, they used 
7, 155 pounds of diced 
onions and 10, 100 
pounds of cut ~ettuce. 
The New JournaVSeptember 4, 1987 15 



**Title: The Complexities of Yale's Dining Halls**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Tom DeDinu, Yale's executive chef, 
favora "ground nut stew." 
bread. Last April, they used 7,155 
pounds of diced onions and 10,100 
pounds of cut lettuce. In one week in 
October, they spent $60,000 on meat. 
"It's a rather large operation," Kenney 
explained. 

Bulk volumes can tell only part of 
the story, however. No less astounding 
than the quantity of each item is the 
variety of foods that the dining halls 
serve at each meal. At all lunches and 
dinners, the standard services other 
than the salad bar include about 30 
different foods, drinks and condiments- two types of milk and juice, 
five ground spices, granola, pudding, 
Jell-0, 
ice cream, 
flavored and 
unflavored yogurt. The salad bar alone 
offers about 20 selections, ranging 
from cottage cheese to four kinds of 
salad dressings, one of which must be 
diet. 

And those are just the standard 
services. The dining halls also provide 
at least three entrees at dinner, one of 
which is vegetarian and all of which 
contain between three and ten ingredients. At least one starch, one hot 
vegetable and one featured dessert, 
usually baked, accompany the entrees. 
To us, it may be just dinner, the three 
or four items on our plates, the excuse 
for a break and the brunt of bad jokes. 
To the dining hall workers, it represents 
the culmination of a furious 
process that began at least months 
before: someone invented and tested 
the recipes, organized the menu, 
ordered the food, unloaded the trucks 
at three in the morning, mixed the 
ingredients, cooked them, and served 
it all up- hot and on time. Particle 
acceleration and genetic engineering 
notwithstanding, food service may be 
the most complex process at Yale. 

For chicken basquaise, that process 
began nearly a year ago. Tom De-
Dinas, Yale's executive chef, prepared 
24 portions of the dish for the "test 
kitchen," the standard trial for any 
potential addition to the menu. A 
group of Yale dining hall administrators 
and managers sampled and 
approved the dish for aroma, taste and 
texture. Having passed this scrutiny, 
chicken basquaise joined the 2600 
other recipes in Yale's file. Because 
cooks are expected to follow all recipes 
exactly, every plate of Yale's chicken 
basquaise should taste as good as the 
first. 

Having left a message with Grut-
man's 
roommate, 
DeDinas 
was 
disappointed when the 
recipe's 
conveyor failed to show up for the test 
kitchen. DeDinas encourages student 
involvement in the food service. A 
large man with thinning blonde hair 
and a meat thermometer tucked in his 
breast pocket, he reported that although 
he has always welcomed recipe 
ideas from undergraduates, they have 
rarely suggested dishes. "I'd like to see 
more input from the students," he said. 

A few new items find their way on to 
the menu each year, usually the result 
of DeDinas' experiments or a dining 
hall manager's vague report of a meal 
enjoyed elsewhere. 

DeDinas said that planning special 
menus often exposes him to new recipes. Last year's African Night, for 
example, yielded one of his favorites: 
"ground nut stew," which includes 
peanut butter in the gravy. Though he 
admitted that "a lot of people were 
turned off by the name," he said that it 
was a popular dish and will reappear 
on the menu 
this year. 

Student 
response, he explained, determines 
which recipes survive. "If we get a lot 
of complaints to the dining hall 
managers saying 'We don't like that 
stuff,' we'll pull that recipe from the 
file." He shrugged. "We won't serve 
something they don't like." Students' 
reactions ended the brief career of 
"pizza quiche" last year. 

The warm reception chicken 
basquaise received at the test kitchen 
has made DeDinas hopeful about its 
future. "It's a very attractive dish, with 
the peppers and the tomatoes." Karen 
Dougherty, who attended the test kitchen, shares DeDinas' enthusiasm. As 
Yale's executive dietician, Dougherty 
heads the committee of food service 
administrators and dining hall 
managers that plans Yale's menu. The 
committee maintains a straightforward 
philosophy: "We aim for pleasing most 
of the people most of the time, and we 
acknowledge that there will be times 
when it doesn't turn you on. Someday 
you'll want that beef chop suey, but 
right now it's not what those taste buds 
had in mind." 

Like DeDinas, Karen Dougherty is 
a true believer in Yale's food. Along 
with all 
other 
management-level 
"Someday you'll want 
that beef chop suey, 
but right now it's not 
what those taste buds 
dining hall employees, Dougherty eats 
regularly in Yale's facilities. She spoke 
energetically about prized recipes, her 
voice easily heard over the roar of her 
air conditioner. The dining hall's 
popular pumpkin bread came from her 
own recipe, and Yale's green bean and 
ground beef casserole ranks as one of 
her favorite dishes. "I don't know, 
there's just something about it that I 
like a lot. So if I eat GBGB casserole, 
which I like a lot, and it doesn't taste 
right, I'll go in there and say, 'What the 
heck did you guys do today?'" 

Dougherty explained that satisfying 
nutritional standards did not present a 
problem for chicken basquaise. Yale's 
dining halls offer elements of the four 
basic food groups at every meal. "We 
always have bread out, we always have 
milk out, we always have vegetables


and fruit out," Dougherty said. "It's a 
piece of cake." Scanning the menu for 
the evening of September 15, she said 
that students should eat their chicken 
basquaise with rice rather than noodles; broccoli normandy rather than 
apple beignets, which are tasty but 
high in calories; and a green salad. For 
dessert, they could eat either the 
canned pear halves or the fudge 
cookie. She suggested that students 
should drink 
milk with 
the 
meal-"skim, 
not 
whole." Tom 
DeDinas recommended a chablis. 

Finding a spot on the menu for a 
new item is more difficult than meeting 
nutritional requirements. Dougherty 
explained that the menu committee 
follows certain basic rules: "We pair 
something popular with something 
unpopular . . . . You'd never put 
Brussel sprouts and beets on at the 
same time." She waved her hands. 
"You'd get a suggestion box stuffed 
with hate mail." Certain foods, like 
fish, can be served up to four times a 
week without generating complaints. 
Chicken, 
however, 
cannot appear 
more than three times. She said that 
chicken basquaise should not be served 
beside another dish containing 
tomatoes. "You want it to stand out on 
the steam table. You do a lot of eating 
with your eyes, and you want to see a 
variety of colors so it doesn't all look 
the same." 

Chicken basquaise will be going up 
against pasta primavera and shrimp 
chow mein- stiff competition. Dougherty 
and DeDinas both believe it will 
fare well, but after placing it on the 
menu they can no longer control its 
fate. At this point, the dining hall 
managers take over. 

Dining hall managers are on the 
front line of food service at Yale. They 
are ultimately responsible for the 
quality of the product and service at all 
27 of Yale's dining facilities. They 
make sure that the food is hot, that the 
ingredients 
and 
condiments are 
stocked, that the workers are clean and 
happy. They plan special events. If 
there's a party, they stay until it ends. 
If there's an equipment failure, they 
cope. As manager of Commons, Ed 
Ley oversees the feeding of between 
1500 and 1600 people twice a day and 
coordinates the two or three special 
meals that Commons might be hosting. In addition, major functions like 
the Walter Camp dinner take place in 
Commons, and the bake shop in its 
basement turns out baked goods for all 
the dining halls. Employees are at 
work there from three in the morning 
until ten at night. "It's big, it's 
extremely big, what we do here," Ley 
said. Barring equipment malfunctions, 
however, he said that the situation 
stays under control: "On an average 
day to the average individual, it may 
appear to be chaos, but to us it's 
organized chaos . . . . To those of us 
who know the assignments, it makes 
sense." 

Though they operate on a smaller 
scale, college dining hall managers also 
must confront chaos daily. If you catch 
sight of a manager at meal time, he's 
probably in motion; if you try to talk to 
him, he probably stays that way. One 
afternoon, Ed Homa, area manager of 
Stiles-Morse, stood beside a stack of 
trays containing breaded veal patties, 
each neatly topped with a dab of 
tomato sauce and a sprinkling of 
grated parmesan cheese. The dinner 
rush would come in an hour or so. "I've 
got PROP on that side," he said, 
gesturing toward the Morse dining 
hall, "and football on that side." He 
pointed toward Stiles. "Those boys eat 
everything." He said that a manager's 
hours aren't bad- usually from 8:30 in 
the morning until seven at night-but 
that the nature of the work is stressful. 
"When it's lunchtime, that has to be 
ready. When it's dinnertime, that has 
to be ready. In that sense, there's a 
certain amount of pressure. When 
you're in this business, it's part of your 
life." But the job has rewards as well. 
Homa said that he enjoys his contact 
with students. "We all 
take our 
everyday meals- breakfast, lunch and 
dinner-as routine. 
But Freshman 
Dinner's coming up, and we're all 
working our tails off to do a good job. 
When someone comes up and says, 
'You did a good job,' that's a great


feeling. That's what we're shooting 
for." 

Eric Uscinski moved through the 
ranks from dishwasher to assistant 
director of Yale's dining halls. Now 
working out of the central offices at 294 
Elm Street, he said that he misses the 
"instant gratification" that comes from 
feeding hungry students. As manager 
of Branford-Saybrook, he organized a 
special breakfast last year for April 
Fool's Day that included linen table-
cloths and student waiters. The menu 
featured 
fresh 
strawberry and 
blueberry crepes. "We always get 
requests for those New York bagels, so 
I went down there and got them for 
'em." But Uscinski doesn't miss the 
pressure of managing two dining halls. 
The kitchen equipment, some of it 15 
years old, frequently broke down. Last 
year, the dishwashing machine in 
Branford was down for three days in a 
row. One hundred and five stairs 
separate the Branford and Saybrook 
kitchens, and he climbed up and down 
them about 40 times each day. 

Beyond ensuring that everything in 
the kitchen and dining areas is running 
smoothly at each meal, the managers 
must plan ahead. For each of the 20 or 
so special items that might appear on 
Yale's menu in a given day, the 
managers turn 
recipes 
into 
numbers and the numbers into food. 
In Commons, which serves so many 
people that four men share the mana-
ger's responsibilities, Michael Stringer 
(DC '77) orders the food and makes 
sure that it arrives on time. 

A corridor stretches the length of 
Commons' basement. The rooms that 
open from it hold food-lots of food. In 
one, a pile of 50-pound bags of sugar 
sits beside a stack of 50-pound sacks of 
"Danish Deluxe Mix." Another room 
stocks grocery items: 55-pound tubs of 
Fig Square Filling, one-gallon bottles 
of Gourmet French Dressing, a stack 
of ten cases of Heinz Tomato Ketchup-each case containing six cans at 
seven pounds apiece. Hoses labeled 
"Lemon," "Red" and "Coke" snake 
from boxes of syrup up through the 
ceiling to the soda machines in the 
serving line above. Ken Jones, Commons' head general services assistant, 
surveyed the room and shook his head. 
"We water it and it grows overnight." 

In the past three days, he had helped 
cart in 24,000 pounds of supplies. 

In rooms where you can see your 
breath, bags of diced carrots, tubs of 
lettuce and boxes of frozen fish await 
their fate. Three mixers stand in the 
bakery, each as tall as a man and 
operated with a manual clutch. Down 
at the corridor's end, you can glimpse 
the kitchen's gleaming bank of ovens. 
Midway between the beginning of the 
corridor and the kitchen sits Stringer's 
office. 

"Involved with cube steaks" at Yale's Long Wharf Commissary. 
Michael Stringer always knew he 
wanted to work in food service. At 
Yale, he studied administrative 
sciences and worked in the dining 
halls. As his graduation approached, 
"It's big, it's extremely 
big, what we do here." 
he was offered a job as an assistant 
manager of Commons. "I had two 
weeks off and boom!- I started here." 
He worked as an assistant manager 
and manager of other dining facilities 
around Yale but returned to Commons 
last fall. "It's obviously a very big 
place," he said. As production manager, Stringer is responsible for the 
ordering and shipping of all food. He 
knows a lot of numbers: If it's hamburgers for lunch, he orders 300 
pounds of meat. "That's 12 to 1500 
burgers at three ounces each, and 75 in 
a case at 15 pounds total." Ordering 
food requires more than knowing 
numbers, however. Stringer seems to 
employ a combination of scientific 
management, 
pop psychology and 
hope. 
Lead time for ordering food varies 



**Chef Joacph Veroneai in hi• kitchen:**
**Author: item . Stringer**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Chef Joacph Veroneai in hi• kitchen: 
"I t'll be a nice addition to our recipe 
file in the chicken line." 
by item . Stringer places orders for 
produce as he needs it, for meat two-
and-a-half weeks in advance. H e checks 
his records to see how a dish fared the 
last time arou nd. He allows for the 
time of year: "You know, people tradi-
tiona lly start eating heavier in the fall. 
The freshmen come through and grab 
one of everything. After two or three 
weeks, they reaJize that their eyes are a 
lot bigger than their stomachs." He 
takes into account the trends toward 
fish, 
poultry and pasta. 
And he 
gu esses. 


Stringer soundeJ cautious about 
ch icken basquaise. He tasted it toward 
the end of August during a week of 
ma nagers' orientation and found it 
good but not remarkable, very similar 
to chicken cacciatore, another of the 39 
ch icken dishes in Yale's repertoire. He 
thinks that it may bafne students. "You 
know, chicken basquaise- what the 
heck is that? I know Basque-southern 
Fra nce, northern Spain- but that still 
doesn't mean anything to me. So I 
notice the tomatoes, other things like 
that." Despite his doubts. Stringer is 
gambling that those "other things" will 
make the chicken dish Commons' top 
seller on September 15. "I think it's 
going to be the best out of the three. 
It's an attractive-looking dish. And it 
was tasty." 

Stringer ran down the menu for that 
evening. With 1600 portions to allo-
cate, he estimated that 800 students 
would choose chicken, 500 would 
choose pasta, and 300 would opt for 
shrimp. "You want poundages?" He 
dropped a tiny calculator onto the desk 
in front of him and began punching the 
buttons. "You're probably talking 
about 475 pounds of chicken." We're 
also talking about 250 pounds of 
potatoes, 
7 5 pounds of rice, 150 
pounds of broccoli, 75 pounds of 
apples, 100 pounds of lettuce, and 150 
dozen fudge cookies. 
"We're involved now 
with cube steaks. 
We've got 4000 of 
them." 
"OK, poundages." In his cramped 
office in the Stiles-Morse kitchen, Ed 
H oma reached for his own recipe box 
and calculator. Having tasted chicken 
basquaise during orientation, 
he 
seemed to have great faith in it. "I love 
chicken," he explained. On September 
15, he expects 525 eaters, which means 
he needs to have 7 52 portions pre-
pared: 352 of the chicken and 200 each 
of pasta and shrimp. He already has 
many of the ingredients on hand as 
part of his standard inventory. "We're 
pretty well stocked right now," he said, 
opening the door to a storage room full 
of neatly piled packages. "It's all 
alphabetized." In the back stood nine 
six-gallon cans of peeled tomatoes, 
which will soon be crushed by hand 
and turned into chicken sauce. But a 
few ingredients for chicken basquaise 
were not in evidence. In Homa's office, 
clipboards with labels like "Processed 
Vegetables" and "Meat Orders" cover 
one wall. These clipboards bear the 
forms that Homa- and all the other 
dining hall managers- will send to 
Don Mitchell. 

Don Mitchell bought 75,000 loaves 
of bread last year. He bought 14,000 
dozen hamburger rolls. He spent 
$80,000 on orange and apple juice. He 
is Yale's buyer. From his office on the 
second floor of the Yale Commissary 
on Long Wharf, Mitchell solicits bids 
each year from the vendors of items 
that appear on the menu. If he ap-
proves of the quality of their product, 
he contracts with ' the lowest bidder. 
Once orders arrive from the managers, 
he compiles them and sends them 
along to the vendors, who deliver 
either direct to the dining halls or to 
the Commissary. Eric Uscinski re-
called that a vendor once sent 1000 
pounds of asparagus, all the wrong 
size. "Don had them come and take it 
away and bring us back the right 
kind." 

All meat comes through the Com-
missary, which boasts its own butcher 
shop. "We're involved now with cube 
steaks," Mitchell reported. "We've got 
4000 of them. They've got to be cut by 
hand 
and 
then 
tenderized 
in 
a 
machine- twice." 

Downstairs, visitors must don white 
coats before entering the "cutting 
room." According 
to 
Mary Ann 
Bernick, 
Mitchell's assistant, 
the 
cutting room's temperature remains 
between 40 and 50 degrees throughout 
the day. Large, shiny hooks dangle 
near the entrance, and a steel track 
runs around the ceiling. "We hang 
leg of lamb from that," she explained. 
The room was silent and almost empty. 
At the back, a man stood over a small 
manual grinder at the end of a long 
table, turning 19 70-pound boxes of 
eye of rounds into cube steaks. In the 
recesses of the Commissary lurk two 
huge freezers, both the size of WLH 
classrooms. Both maintain stock at 20 
degrees below zero. In the corner 'of 
one freezer stood 500 boxes, each 
containing six-and-a-half pounds of 
breaded clam strips. Could those all be 
for one meal? "Oh no, no," Bernick 
said with a smile. "Almost two." The 
chicken for the basquaise will arrive at 
Long Wharf precut, from Delaware or 
Maryland. Mitchell will send it along 
to the kitchens in Yale's trucks the 
night before it is needed. T here will be 
a lot of it, but the cooks don't seem 
worried. 


**Yale Food Service**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

In his kitchen in Commons, Joseph 
Veronesi, chef, sat reading "Food 
Management" magazine. He wore a 
stained white coat and a white paper 
hat about a foot tall. Veronesi has 
cooked at Yale for 26 years since 
starting as second cook at the Law 
School. "The idea of the food here at 
Yale- it's more unique than anywhere 
( 
else. Yale is number one. You think of 
college food and you usually think of 
frozen food." Indeed, according to Al 
Kenney, Yale has sold its recipe file 
four times: to Princeton, Columbia, 
Notre Dame and Duke, each time for 
$20,000. Veronesi has tasted all the 
recipes: "Anything I wouldn't eat I 
manager, 
Stringer makes food out of numbers"'.


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"We give you 
the attention and 
consideration that 
you deserve" 
280 York Street 
New Haven 
777-11 11 
gnomon 
wcopy 
Mon.-Fri., 8 am·10pm 
Sat., 9 am-5 pm 
Sun., Noon-5 pm 
"On the Yale Campus 
since 1939" 
Same Day Service


**Title: SID~ t;L£VATIO~ Scaling Walls**
**Author: John Stella**
**Page number(s): 24**

"' We bought a lobster 
shell and looked at it 
to see how the pieces 
fit together. It was 
always sitting on the 
design table." 
24 The New JournaUSeptember 4, 1987 
At a construction site between a baseball field 
and Long Island Sound, "the fish" basks in 
the late August sun. Its arched wooden 
skeleton throws a web-like shadow on the 
deck, tracing lines over workers in t-shirts 
and cut-off jeans. A man with white hair and 
an anguW.r face catches sight of a flatbed truck 
moving across the field. Squinting up at the 
unfinished structure, swinging his arms and 
grinning, he cries, «Mary Beth, your trusses 
are here!" A minute later, a small woman in 
work boots and a W.rge yellow hard hat 
signals the tractor-trailer driver, who releases 
the heavy timber at her feet. Paul Brouard 
turns around. "Where else are you going to get 
experience like that?" 
Probably nowhere. These are not 
ordinary construction workers, and 
Paul Brouard is no ordinary foreman. 
They are Yale architecture students, 
building a bandshell for the Bridgeport 
Symphony in that city's Seaside Park 
as part of the School of Architecture's 
First Year Building Project. "The fish" 
is their own design and product, the 
result of months of furious labor in the 
studio and in the field. 
The wooden deck and six arched 
trusses look like the skeleton of an 
immense sea creature on the shoreline. 
In a curious process of reverse decay, 
more pieces appear each day, fleshing 
out the body. In its finished state, the 
three-story bandshell will have a 
curved plywood roof sheathed in 
copper shingles. When these oxidize in 
five to eight years, the cavernous shell 
will assume a scaly green appearance.



**Architorture: Yale's First Year Building Project**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
About a dozen workers are making 
purlins, structural ribs that connect 
and stiffen the trusses. They work in 
teams. Students up on the scaffolding 
call measurements down to others, 
who custom cut each two-by-eight and 
hand it up for fitting. Often the angles 
are off, requiring one, maybe two 
adjustments. 

Even with 
a 
team 
working at each side of the deck, only 
three purlins go up per hour. "They 
call this architorture," Layng Pew says 
from his perch in the scaffolding. 
The First Year Building Project is 
an annual event for the School of 
Architecture and an integral part of its 
three-year curriculum, in which three 
aemesters of practical training prepare 
students for conceptual design studios. 
Begun in 1965 by Charles Moore, 
dean of the school at the time, the 
project seeks to acquaint previously 
desk-bound students with the process 
of building. In the field, they draw on a 
year of "core" training that covers 
structures, 
materials, 
heating and 
ventilating, acoustics , lighting, 
fireproofing, plumbing and electrical 
systems. 

Richard Song had never built 
anything before coming to Yale. 
"Construction has opened my eyes in a 
different way toward architecture. 
Prior to this I would look at a building 
in terms of design and spatial qualities. 
Now I look at what materials are used 
and how they are joined." 

The project introduces students to 
all aspects of building. Yale contracts 
with a client, usually a city govern-
ment or other non-profit group, who 
agrees to fund the materials and 
support services, such as excavation, 
electricity and food. 
Under Paul 
Brouard's direction, the students serve 
as architects and builders. In March of 
their first year they break up into 
teams of tbree to four people and enter 
a design competition, culminating in a 
final jury in April. At that event, 
clients, Yale faculty members and 
outside critics gather to choose the 
winning project. In an effort intended 
to bind the students together, the 
whole class builds it for free during 
May. 

Brouard, a private contractor, is the 
Critic in Architectural Construction on 
the Yale faculty. He comes in expressly 
to oversee the building project. In his


Making purlina: "Thc:y (:all thia archilorturc." 
15 years at Yale , he has supervised 
hundreds of students but stresses that 
each develops an individual approach 
to architecture and building. Leaning 
against the shoreline embankment, he 
speaks readily and laughs often. "I am 
here and available to keep everything 
moving," he explains. "They learn 
from the mistakes that they make, 
from something that they have to take 
out if it doesn't work visually or 
structurally. They have to pull it apart 
and redo it, and when you have that 
experience several times, you are 
much more careful about how you 
approach it in another situation." 

A light shines on the seventh floor of the 
r:Uzrlcened Art and Architecture building on a 
night in mid-June. Stveral students are 
meeting after worlc. The SNET telepole truck 
finished excavation only the week before, 
drilling sixty-two holes 
in a roughly 
rectangular lot in the park in preparation for 
the concrete pilings that will support the 
bandshell's deck. Now the site looks like a 
giant gopher colony, a neat mound of earth 
piled next to each hole. 

In the studio, the lights illuminate only a 
small work area; the rest of the desks stand 
clean and abandoned until September. Four 
students bend their heads over drafting 
boards, brainstorming a required wheelchair 
ramp for the deck- one of the matry unforeseen 
elements that needs last-minute designing. 

The fish was an imaginative idea, and 
a tricky design. Originally conceived 
by four students as an elongated, 
marine animal form, it took its in-
spiration directly from the coastal site. 
Asked what architectural issues his 
design team considered, Ron God-
fredson shrugs. "We bought a lobster 
shell and looked at it to see how the 
pieces fit together. It was always sitting 
on the design table." Calling their 
scheme "a complicated organism," 
team captain Darin Cook explains that 
last-minute creative and technical 
breakthroughs rarely allowed them to 
finish drawings and models in time for 
the design deadlines. Recalling one 
presentation before the Yale faculty, he 
holds an imaginary model in his 
fingers and grins. "We would have this 
thing that was falling apart and it was 
like, 'Try to imagine a roof on this. We 
haven't figured it out yet but we're 
almost there.' And they're just looking 
at us like, 'You've got to be kidding.'" 

Still conceptual and unbuildable, 
their project was chosen as one of three 
finalists, 
and 
the problems com-
pounded. The team grew from four to 
twelve, gaining members from eli-
minated groups. Students divided up 
responsibilities such as budget, 
engineering and drawing requirements 
to 
prepare 
for the final 
review. 
Everyone had a say in the design 
refinements, which consolidated the 
shape of the polygonal deck and arched 
trusses and saw the addition of a 
copper-shi~gled roof. Going into the 
final jury, the model looked like a scaly 
insect or crustacean, its shell-like back 
perched on twelve spindly legs. 

Unlike its more traditional compe-
titors, whose forms remained more 
static during the design process, the 
amorphous fish could evolve in re-
sponse to the many client demands. 
Midway through the design period, the 
city, which commissioned the project 
for the Bridgeport Symphony, decided 
to allow the much larger New York 
Philharmonic to play there on its 
annual summer tour. The project size 
doubled, complicating the engineering 
requirements and creating new needs, 
such as heavy construction equipment. 
Its initial cost of S60,000 soared to well 
over SlOO,OOO, 
necessitating rene-
gotiation between the city 


... 
Citytrust Bank, the project under-
writer. 

As more information came in about 
the necessary size, acoustics, and 
engineering requirements, the form 
stretched accordingly. Darin Cook 
coordinated the group's efforts. 'just 
on the shape, we built nine models. 
We had three guys that would build 
something and show it to the group 
and we'd all sit there and say, 'No, I 
think it should_ .be tall~r, or longer, or 
iatter or skinnier,' and they'd go back 
and make a fat one, a skinny one, a 
long one, and one that combined all 
of them and crank out four more 
models for us to crit." 

Five uninterrupted days and nights 
of redesign and reengineering ended 
on April 22, the day of the final jury. 
The three design teams presented their 
projects to a panel of representatives of 
the 
Yale faculty, 
Bridgeport 
Symphony and mayor's office, Cilv-
trust Bank, and various acoustical, 
engineering and building code 
consultants. 
During the ensuing 
debate, the fish group nudged out the 
two 
less 
flexible 
design teams, 


**Title: Yale Students Build a Bandshell**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
descriptively dubbed the "piano" and 
"tent" groups. Herbert Newman, a 
New Haven architect and the Yale 
faculty coordinator of the building 
project, 
recalls the jury: "It was 
exciting because it had a certain 
organic quality. It had the quality of a 
crab crawling out of the sea, of a boat 
turned upside down. It had all of this 
metaphorical imagery that at the same 
time worked as a bandshell. It seemed 
very appropriate on a shore, at the 
edge of the water. It was unself-
conscious. That is a very mature thing 
for students at an early age." 

The fish won almost unanimous 
support among jurors. The major part 
of the studio work over, the students 
and Brouard geared up to go into the 
field during May, planning to com-
plete the band shell by June 1 . They 
lacked only a building permit and the 
cursory governmental approvals. The 
next day, April 23, the L'Ambiance 
Plaza building under construction in 
Bridgeport collapsed, 
killing 
28 
workers and Yale's chances of 
starting on time. The tragedy's two-
week rescue effort and the subsequent 
lawsuits virtually shut down the city 
Building Department and put the 
students' project in jeopardy. 

Concrete 
now fills 
the gopher holes, 
supporting heavy joists and unfinished 
decking. Standing on top, you can see the blue 
expanse of the Sound over the embankment, 
marked by the black mass of an anchored oil 
tanker and the sharp white wedges of 
sailboats. A blue sedan pulls up and parks on 
the road on top of the embankment, joining 
the other shapes on the horizon. The driver 
watches the students working in the steamy 
June heat. Kneeling on the green pressure-
treated lumber, they strain to drive galvanized 
nails through the deck. Over on the steps, the 
water cooler is nearly empty. 

The driver lingers but does not get out of 
the car. His door bears the municipal seal of 
Bridgeport and gold stencilled Letters spelling 
"Building Dept. "' Several minutes later, he . 
restarts the engine and drives off toward the 
park entrance. 

The municipal cns1s caused by the 
L'Ambiance collapse brought the 
bandshell project to a grinding halt and 
severely altered its nature. Even when 
the immediate 
rescue operations 
ended, many bureaucratic hurdles 
remained. The Bridgeport Building 
Department, saddled by intense legal 
and media scrutiny, demanded that 
Yale meet many more requirements 
than customary to begin construction. 

The model looked 
like a scaly insect or 
crustacean, its shell-
like back perched on 
twelve spindly legs. 

The Coastal Area Planning Com-
mission forced some design changes to 
ensure that the structure will withstand 
the largest hurricanes to come off the 
Sound. Sturdy pressure-treated 
lumber replaced fine Douglas fir on the 
deck. According to joseph Grabarz, 
assistant to Bridgeport Mayor Thomas 
W. Bucci, the Building Department 
became "oversensitive to any proposal 
that came before them, and that helped 
to slow the process up a lot." Daily 
visits by nervous building inspectors 
eventually subs ided, 
but an 
overabundance of s:,ommitments in the 
mayor's office (it is an election year for 
Bucci) caused further delays. 

It was June 8 before the building 
project could begin again, a full six 
weeks behind schedule. Delays caused 
cost overruns and a manpower short-
age, since many students left New 
Haven for the summer, convinced that 
the project was defunct. Bridgeport 
offered to build the bandshell with city 
employees but the remaining students 
refused, valuing the education of the 
building process more; than simply 
achieving the 
final 
result. 

They 
compromised. The city employed the 
students at' eight dollars per hour and 
insured them with workman's compen-
~ v (;'~ ... < ~I 
• 
~" ""~ l;o ••• () 


sation. 
Citytrust Bank, 
which 
IS 
funding the bandshell as a gift to 
Bridgeport for its 150th anniversary, 
hired AI Hermandorfer, a private 
consultant, to coordinate the flow of 
money, 
supplies and information 
between the bank, 
the city, 
the 
Symphony, Brouard and the contrac-
tors who donated supplies and tools to 
the project. 

Still, 
only 
10 to 
12 
students 
were able to s1t out the delays to begin 
construction. The loss of two-thirds of 
the class to summer commitments 
compromised the binding nature of the 
project. "It's hard to call this a class 
project anymore." Paul Brouard sits up 
and rests a forearm on his knee. "I've 
always felt that the building project 
helped the class on other levels than 
learning building. It also makes them 
change their opinions of one another. 
The skills that are important in the 
studio are not always the ones in?--
portant in the field. Some of those 
people who have the field skills gain a 
lot of respect among their peers. It 
• does change the social and professional 
order of the class." 

Mary Beth's trusses are going up, and the site 
looks like a barn-raising party. The back four 
stand secure, and a fifth dangles above the 
~u 

deck from a crane. Supported onry by taut 
canvas straps, the truss quivers Like paper in 
the wind. Two workers steady it at the ends 
and wait to lower and bolt it to the concrete 
piers. A man in a Red Sox cap gives coaching 
signals to the crane operator, who rotates and 
dips the boom, nestling the truss footings onto 
the threaded rods. 

One peg is crooked and needs ar.fjustment. 
Bob Tucker climbs onto the pier, plants his 
work boots for balance, and hammers away 
with a sledge. The peg is embedded in 
concrete, and his rjfort yields onry a slow 
rhythm of.flat clicks. Beyond the construction 
fence, people stop to watch the progress. An 
old man matches the scene against this 
morning's paper, which carries a quarter-
page photo of the project. 

"With the birthday celebration and 
projects like this, we're trying to 
change the image of Bridgeport and 
the feeling among Bridgeporters about 
their own city. And they see it not just 
in a poster or billboard or new media 
event, they see it in something that's 
actually going up that they can look at 
and say, "Gee, that looks like some-
thing that would be fun to use." Joe 
Grabarz believes the building project 
goes a 
long way in overcoming 
Bridgeport's negative image. "The 
bandshell has become a focus for a lot 
of the positive feeling about the city. 
This could be something that the city 
could get excited about, help its 
development, and enjoy through the 
future." 

' 
Concern with the social effect of the 
building project has 
fluctuated 
throughout its history. Strong belief in 
the moral commitment of architects to 
.. It had the quality of a crab cr01wling ou t of the sea." 


**Title: Looking Back: Past Projects**
**Page number(s): 30**

Ligh thouae Point, 1984 
Looking Back: Past Projects 
1965 Camp Farnam cabin, Durham, CT 
1966 Camp Cedarcrest, Orange, CT 
1967 Community Center, New Zion, KY 
1968 Community Center, Lower Grassy, 
KY 
1969 Community Center, Middletown, 
CT 
1970 Camp cabins. Fishkill, NY 
1971 Shelter for town beach, Guilford, 
C T 
1972 Renovation of railroad station into 
Senior Citizenl> Center, Wallingford, CT 
1973 Pa\ ilion, Camp Farnam. Durham, 
1974 Fireplace for Camp Farnam 
Pavilion. Durham. CT 
1974 Elizabeth h •es School playground, 
Hamden, CT 
1975 Cabin Creek Medical Center, 
Cabm Creek. W VA 
1976 Camp Farnam Cabin, Durham, CT 
I 977 Basketball Court Roof. Camp 
Laurelwood. North Madison, CT 
1978 Pavilion, American Shakespeare 
Tht•ater, Stratford, CT 
1979 Renovation of barn and new 
addition to Community House. West 
Haven. CT 
1980 Oormitorv and Conference Center, 
Quinnipi.tC' Bov Scouts Council. Winsted. 
1981 Pa' ilion. Yale Outdoor Recreation 
Center. East Lvrm·. CT 
1982 Pavilton and Changing Rooms at 
tO\\ n beat' h. !\1 adt~on. CT 
1983 Summer Concert Panlton. Ne" 
Ha,·en Green. CT 
1984 Panlion. Li~ththou t• Point. Ne" 
Han·n. CT 
1985 Pa,ilton. East Rock State Park. 
:-o:cw Haven. CT 
1986 Welcome Pavilion and Ticket 
Booth. Fort Nathan H.1le Park. ::'IJe" 
1987 Brid\tt'port Svmphom Bandshell. 
Seaside Park. Brid~t'port. CT 



**Title: Seaside Park Bandshell**
**Author: John Stella**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Herbert Newman and Thomas Beeby society helped found the project in the 1960s, and the first few classes journeyed to rural Appalachia to build federally funded community centers. 
Environmental concerns prevailed in the seventies; classes designed camps and cabins in local forests. In the late seventies and eighties, a preoccupation with formal and aesthetic concerns produced several small, stylized pavilions. 
Some students want the project to tackle societal problems in the original spirit of the program, but most feel content with the education it provides.


Brouard believes that "today's students are still very interested in building, but in a context more appropriate to the way they think. They see it as an advantage to their careers." Though he stresses that the Seaside Park bandshell will be a useful addition to the community, he believes that the class should sometimes deal with issues of more current social importance, such as homeless people and low-cost housing. 
Thomas Beeby, dean of the Yale School of Architecture, suggests that the current program could investigate such projects but cautions against losing sight of the educational philosophy. "Architecture is a generalist profession. It has to encompass technical, intellectual and artistic activities all underneath one roof, and there is a shifting of interest from one aspect to another. I think it is the duty of architectural schools to sustain that generalist notion of architecture, to protect all those different interests. The building project is a symbol of the school's interest in the idea that architecture and building are connected in a truly integrated way." He credits this philosophy with sustaining the building project amid waning social concern but emphasizes that evolving student interests do affect the project. 


At one in the morning on the seventh floor of the A and A, Layng Pew, Bob Tucker, Kevin Killen, and Mary Beth Vogel gather around the presentation model and discuss their options. It is late August, and time is running short. The superstructure is nearly complete, lacking only a few purlins. School will soon begin, however, and they will almost certainly not have time to sheath the bandshell in plywood or to apply its distinctive copper roof Layng suggests using asphalt shingles instead of copper to save time, but the idea doesn't go over well. "what about finishing it next May?" someone asks, but Kevin reminds them that Brouard will be busy with next year's class. They throw out more schemes and try to envision each one on the model, shingled only halfway to demonstrate the sequence of materials. 
School has begun, and the bandshell stands unfinished. The size of the project and the diminished student crew will prevent completion by Labor Day, when Bridgeport wanted to hold an opening concert, and will certainly keep students from finishing the bandshell themselves. For several weeks, they thought that they would also have to sacrifice the copper roof for inferior materials, but Bridgeport agreed to retain it after some discussion According to a tentative plan, a private contractor will apply plywood sheathing to weatherproof the structure before winter while the class starts handmaking the copper shingles. Students will install these next May. 


Mary Beth Vogel, one of the four originators of the design, has seen the project grow from the miniature model to one showing construction detail to the actual structure in Seaside Park. Remembering the day the original group conceived of the dramatic form, she is pleased with its translation into reality. "I feel that the general image is the same. It evolved the way it wanted to and can respond in a good way."


The students are still meeting with the various clients to resolve the roof design. Brouard sees this as all part of the education. "It's a good experience for them, because they're going to be in on it. They have to make some of the decisions and commitments for carrying it out, if they want to fulfill to the best of their capabilities that image." 
Tom Beeby explains that students need an intimate knowledge of construction to judge when they can and cannot compromise. He believes that the importance of the building project lies in showing students how to turn a design into a building without betraying their original ideas. "You have to protect your images against the onslaught of reality. You have to protect your idea, even though there's a lot of reasons to change it to something less interesting." 
The studio is dark now, the building empty. Sheets of yellow trace paper covered with rough sketches and construction details litter the drawing boards. On a table in the back sits the model, half of it roofed in warm copper, half of it bare. Its cavernous opening issues a silent challenge, taunting the students. And waiting for sunlight.


**Title: Midwives in New Haven**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"I think y:ou should 
hang up er gloves if 
it gets~ for you." 
The pictures cover most of the wall: 
first footh, 
fir~ year, first grade. 
Hundreds of pictures, with qozens 
more scattered across Linda Lisk's 
desk. Most show mothers with their 
newborn children- children 
still 
bloody, their umbilical cords still 
-attached and clearly visible. Linda 
often appears on the periphery: the 
pair of hands holding the baby next to 
its mothert belly, the blue-gowned 
figure by the cornet of the bed. This 
suits herjust fine; alfer all, she isn't the 
one having the child. 

Lisk is a certified nurse-midwife 
(CNM), 
and her profession also 
~·~····"· .. , out of focus. 
2800 
the 
States hold 
obstetrical and 
'X;: aJ~ICOIOf!~e<u care for women, and the 
34 The New JournaVSeptember 4, 1987 
increase every year. . But 
public ignorance, professional skep-
ticism and the high cost of medical 
i~e have made it difficult for 
nurse-midwives to find employment in 
many parts of the country. New 
Ha~n, bolstered by a tertiary care 
hosjital and Yale Medical School, 
offers 
a 
relatively 
supportive 
~nvitbnment for CNMs. The numbtlr 
of births supervised by nurse-midwi~es 
greatly exceeds the national figure of 
between two and four percent of all 
deliveries- by one estimate, 
they 
handle as many as 25 percent. But 
even in New Haven, which boasts one 
of only 
28 
nurse-midwife degree 
programs in the country, midwives 
face a difficult time finding acceptance. 
In Europe midwives are responsible 
for 60 to 80 percent of deliveries, but 
tnany Americans now view them as a 
curiosity, an anomaly in this age of 
specialized medicine. 

The influence of doctors in obste-
trical care has developed only over the 
last century, with particular force in 
the United States. Until the early 
1900s, a predominantly immigrant 
population of midwives provided 
primary care for pJegruUU women. 
Doctors, whose own sta(US had not yet 
reached complete respectability, began • 
to suggest that these midwives were 
inadequately trained and that a 
woman faced dire risks :J she did not 
put herself in. 'the han~ of established 
medicine. They empl\asized the need 
for sanitaty and ~iated procedures 
and poi:oted out that most midwives


--- Page 35 ---

uneducated foreigners. As the 
'llli~*:Mc~r of midwives declined, childbirth 
What had previously been 
cotWller-ea a fairly normal process 
requiring little intervention gradually 
became a medical phenomenon, and a 
litany of new technique• and tech· 
nologies became part of accepted 
procedure: shaving women} pubic 
hair , 
giving 
tbern 
enemas, 
anaesthetizing them 
heavily, 
res.~=tilltg them co their beds during 
and performing cesarean 
aad forceps deliveries. 

the lllid-1970., women began to 
· 
tbc necessity of 10me of these 
~ ~ resurgence of 
followed. As Lisk explains 
lldlllWife care emphasizes non-
flliattlc•i:st technique that give the 
ilft:$.pl~>lelte control over her body 
IUl~&-aPor and childbirth. CWe try to 
as a normal process, not as 
one. We encourage people 
to the hospital unless they 
she says. Before she became a 
rn"n"""'"• Lisk worked as a regis-
(RN) on the labor and 
floor, where, she says, "l 
things being done to women 
outrageous." Now, she describes 
herself aa a feminist who has chosen a 
more active role in changing the 
treatment of women, 

"The perception is that you're a 
retonstituted hippie." Sue Andrews, 
an assistapf professor of certified 
nurse-midwifery at the Yale School of 
Nursing, leans back in her chair and 
amiles. "But most CNMs are in one 
way or another feminists-we believe 
that women need to be empowered." 
Dressed in t-shirt and shorts, Andrews 
looks somehow out of place in her 
office, 
which 
is crammed with 
textbooks and stacks of papers. She 
came to the School of Nursing in 1981 
from Oregon. where she had been an 
RN and before that, an English 
teacher. Yale offers two tracks to a 
master's degree in nurse-midwifery: a 
two-year program for registered nurses 
like Andrews and Lisk and an unusual 
three-year program for people with no 
previous nursing experience. After 
receiving her certification from the 
American College of Nurae-Midwives, 
Andrews stayed at Yale to teach .• 
also became director of the Num..t 
School-affiliated Yale 
Midwifery Practice, the only private".-.;;a-;,.,.,.;;c«<l
practice in New Haven run and 
operated by the CNMs themselves. 
The practice will dose at the end of 
September due to 
decline jn 
enrollment at the nursing school that 
forced administratqrs to target ~ir :l\. 
limited funds elsewhere. Still, its staff 
says, during 13 years of operation it 
served as a 
prototy~ for similar 
programs nationwide. 

\ndrews chose to enter a career in 
academia rather than to concentrate on 
an active practice. Lisk wanted a more 
immediate remedy for the treatment of 
women that she had witneaed on the 
labOr and delivery floor. 

After 
certification, 
she joined the New 
Haven-based OB-GYN pl'8dic:e ol Dr. 
Marshall Holley; they both insist that 
she works with him, not for him. 
Holley now has rwo nunc-midwives in 
his practice, Who ddiver IDC)St of the 
200-plua patienr. ~ 
IJeCS in a year. 


--- Page 36 ---

"Manhall said to me1 'Well, ')'«;;U 
know, I can hire auotber doCtor. Bat 
you can do thinp that a doctor can't.' 
He ~-pooh& what we do, but I 
know Ja my heart that he reany 
The- New JoumaliSeptember ~. 1987 35 
supports us," Lisk says. She and 
Debbie Cibelli, the other CNM in 
Holley's practice, provide all of the 
prenatal care and counseling for 
normal women with no health risks. In 
Connecticut, CNMs cannot prescribe 
medication, so Holley signs prescrip-
tions for drugs or vitamins. Once a 
woman goes into labor, Lisk or Cibelli 
stays with her until she delivers- for 
five hours or two days, however long 
the labor takes. Holley usually does not 
show up in the patient's room until the 
child begins to appear, and he does not 
interfere unless the birth requires sur-
gical procedure, which CNMs cannot 
perform. 

Holley, a genial man who sports ties 
decorated with tiny tennis racquets, 
speaks highly of the kind of care that 
CNMs provide. "My style of prac-
ticing medicine is one of being laid 
back, as natural as possible, giving the 
patients choice of what's going on and 
36 The New J ournal/Septe-mber 4. 1987 
ability to make a decision," he says. 
"Midwives give the patients someone 
in labor with them." In addition to 
providing emotional support through-
out labor and delivery, Lisk and 
Cibelli also encourage the woman to be 
more aware of what's happening to 
her. "We try and get women to watch 
what they're doing. We'll try and get 
her to reach down, to feel the baby's 
head. We try not to make this a sterile 
procedure- because that really isn't 
the most sterile area, although people 
try to make it so," Lisk explains. Her 
method of care involves allowing the 
woman to choose her own position, in 
the bed or out of it. "Some women 
want to squat on the floor on their 
hands and knees while they give birth. 
That's fine, it's perfectly normal." In 
fact, many doctors, as well as mid-
wives, feel that the standard position of 
birth, lying in bed with both feet 
encased in stirrups, actually hampers 
delivery by forcing a woman to work 
against gravity. 

Indeed, the line that separates 
midwifery from physician care has 
faded in recent years as hospitals 
respond to a tr~nd calling for "natural" 
medicine. According to Tracy Wit-
treich, a CNM in private practice with 
three other nurse-midwives and four 
physicians, Yale-New Haven Hospital 
has made great strides in providing a 
comfortable environment for expectant 
mothers. Now, instead of giving birth 
in a large common room where privacy 
is provided only by curtains, women 
can use private or semiprivate birthing 
rooms. Some of these offer television 
sets , 
individual showers and 
wallpaper, in an effort to make the 
setting for birth as, homey as possible. 
More important, most birthing rooms 
now contain flexible "borning beds," 
which allow women to change 
positions during labor. 

"Yale really seems fairly progressive 
to me," Wittreich says. She notes that 
when Yale-New Haven renovated its 
facilities, nurses and midwives were 
consulted about what the new birthing 
rooms should look like. But she admits 
that hospital procedure occasionally 
frustrates her. "There are certain 
things you get sucked into doing in a 
hospital," she says. Yale-New Haven 
insists that a doctor attend every 
delivery, if only to observe, and urges 
the use of highly technical machinery 
such as fetal monitors and ultrasound. 
Fetal monitors, which track a baby's 
heartbeat, require that the mother lie 
in bed, not squat on the floor. Lisk 
insists that monitors rarely offer 
helpful information in low-risk cases, 
but hospital administrators prefer to 
minimize the chance of malpractice 
suits by using every available 
technology on mother and child. 
Their concern 
stems from 
insurance crisis in medicine, which has 
had an especially strong effect on 
obstetrics. Vulnerable to lawsuits and 
aware that a damaged chi:d evokes 
strong sympathy from a jury, OB-
GYN practitioners face the highest 
insurance premiums of any medical 
subspecialty, and many doctors have 
limited their practice to GYN as a 



**Midwives and Medicine**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 37-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
result. Two years ago, insurance 
companies refused even to insure 
midwives, and only after the American 
College of Nurse-Midwives began to 
consider sel f- i nsurance did 
a 
consortium of companies agree to 
provide coverage. Doctors who hire 
midwives usually pay their insurance 
costs as well; when coupled with their 
own insurance bills, the price of hiring 
.~ a midwife often rises too high. Several 
New Haven-based practices which 
used to employ midwives no longer do 
so, citing excessive costs. 


Marshall Holley does not believe 
them. "I don't think the insurance part 
is the reason most doctors don't use 
midwives," he says. "I thi~k the doctor 
ego, where he would have to relinquish 
control, is the main reason." The most 
common arena of confrontation is the 
hospital: when a woman's attending 
physician is unavailable at the time of 
her delivery, a resident must sub-
stitute. 
Unfamiliar 
with nurse-
midwifery techniques and schooled in 
interventive medicine, these residents 
are "always prowling the halls, sticking 
"The perception is that 
you're a reconstituted 
hippie." 
their heads in everybody's rooms," 
Andrews says. "Their purpose is to 
deal with high-risk situations, and they 
tend to turn everything into a high-risk 
situation." In fact, statistics show that 
nurse-midwives are much less likely to 
be sued for malpractice than are OB-
GYN physicians. About 67 percent of 
physicians will encounter malpractice 
suits during their OB-GYN careers, 
compared with about six percent of 
nurse-midwives. Even accounting for 
the fact that midwives handle only 
"normal" pregnancies, this comparison 
does not support a conclusion that 
midwives are in any way less capable 
than physicians of providing labor and 
delivery care. 


"When I was a student at Yale, the 
relationship between the midwives and 
the residents was horrible. Horrible," 
Wittreich says. But she has exper-
ienced the kind of crisis that makes 
hospitals like Yale require a physician 
to be present at deliveries: one of her 
"normal" deliveries suddenly turned 
life-threatening when the baby suffered 
a shoulder dystolcia, in which the 
Linda Lisk sits with her patien ts throughout their d elivery, whether it takes a few 
hours or an entire day. 


child's head is sucked back into the 
mother and goes into respiratory 
failure. ~The baby was turning blue. 
All of a sudden I heard this voice 
behind me saying, 'Need any help?' 
And it was like, 'God, yes!' That kind 
of situation doesn't happen often, but it 
can give you gray hairs and chest 
pains. An extra pair of hands is always 
nice." 


Doctors who do employ midwives, 
usually at salaries of around $30,000, 
compensate for 
their 
diminished 
authority with the freedom from being 
constantly on-call. In Wittreich's 
practice, the CNMs handle 95 percent 
of the approximately 500 deliveries 
that are done yearly. This can mean a 


60 to 70 hour work week, with none of 
the financial rewards physicians can 
expect. "You're not going to reco~p 
your investment like you would if you 
were a doctor," Wittreich says. "The 
hours are brutal. But," she adds softly, 
"there's nothing like delivering a baby. 
It's still a big thrill for me. I think you 
should hang up your gloves if it gets 
boring for you." 


Helen Burst, the chairperson of the 
Maternal-Newborn Nursing/Nurse-
Midwifery Program at the nursing 
school, has seen a lot of women, and a 
few men, express this sentiment. She 
graduated from the nurse-midwifery 
program in 1963, and has since written 
the standard 
textbook on nurse-
midwifery in addition to performing 
her administrative duties. When other 
CNMs speak of her, they show the 
kind of deference usually reserved for 
doctors. "Have you met Helen yet?" 
one of them asks. "She's ... well, she's 
pretty imposing." In person, Burst 
seems less awe-inspiring than her P.R. 
would suggest. She laughs frequently 
and loudly, jumping up to find a 
reference to midwifery in the Bible. 
"Here it is, right here. Genesis, 35:17. 
The midwife's first words were, 'Fear 
not.' Isn't that great?" 


Burst has found many reasons for 
enthusiasm in her 24 years of nurse-
midwifery experience. "When I first 
gradu~ted," she says, "there were only 
three or four places where one could 
practice as a midwife. New York City, 
out in Santa Fe, ip Baltimore, and in 
Kentucky. Now, we've got jurisdiction 
in all fifty states." The Connecticut 
legislature enacted a statute governing 
nurse-midwives in 1981. Before that, 
according to Wittreich, midwives 
could not sign birth certificates after 
they had performed deliveries. "A taxi 
driver-if a woman gave birth in the 
back of his cab, he could sign the birth 
certificate. But midwives couldn't. 
There was no way for us to prove the 
work we were doing, no record of any 
of it." 


Gradually, 
the 
medical 
establishment seems to be accepting 
the presence of nurse-midwives in 
hospital births. Community Health 
Care Plan (CHCP), New Haven's 
health maintenance organization, 
employs six CNMs who each handle as 
many as 40 patients a day. But few 
doctors will support midwifery care in 
what is perhaps its purest form, the 
home birth. CNMs cannot participate 
in home births without losing their 
Yale-New Haven admitting privileges, 
but independent, or "lay," midwives 
can and do. Independent midwives, 
who need no special certification or 
training, number about 3000 in the 
United States. They generally 
populate rural areas more than urban 
centers like the Northeast, but 
Connecticut does have four such 
women, and two of them are in 
practice together outside of 
N~w 
Haven. 


**HAIR STYLES**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
HAIR STYLES 
Complete Styling 
Services for 
Men and Women 
82'12 Wall St. 
19 Broadway 
865-9187 
865-9182 
We Carry Nexxus and 
Sebastian Products


**Midwives and Home Births**
**Author: Jennifer Sachs**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

Helen Burst has seen the status of midwives evolve from obscurity to respectability. 
is committed to home birth as a philo-
sophical choice. "I have very poor 
patients on welfare, and I have patients 
from Stamford and Greenwich. I have 
stopped trying to say that there's a 
certain type of patient, because I don't 
think there is. The only thing they 
share is a desire for control over their 
own bodies," she says. They pay her on 
a sliding scale based on their financial 
status, since insurance does not pay for 
home births. It also does not cover 
Kirn in case of lawsuits, a fact which 
she says doesn't bother her. "It's not 
worth the profit for insurance com-
panies to sue me, it's not worth the 
hassle. My pockets aren't deep enough. 
And the people I deal with spiritually 
understand that life has its own flow." 
Like Lisk and Wittreich, Kirn offers 
women a constant supportive presence 
during their labor. Unlike the CNMs, 
she will do it wherever her client 
prefers. "I'U take her for walks. I'll take 
her to the mall. I don't want her to feel 
like she's a prisoner, or like there's 
anything wrong with her." She rejects 
the idea that Yale-New Haven's new 
birthing rooms provide women with 
sufficient comfort. "If you bark real 
loud, someone will throw you a bone. 
'Look, look at this hospital room! Look 
at the potted plant! Look at the bed, it 
looks just like a real one!' Things run 
deeper than that." 

While many CNMs and doctors 
agree that the hospital cannot match 
the privacy and comfort of a home 
birth, they dispute its wisdom. "The 
women who have 
n ever 
been 
nurses- they're the ones who are all for 
home birth. They've 
never seen 
anyone bleed to death," Wittreich says. 
Lisk appreciates the work that lay 
midwives do and 
says 
that she 
sometimes calls Kirn for advice. But, 
she adds, "They feel very righteous 
about what they are doing, and so do 
we." 

One viable alternative to home 
births might be the creation of a 
birthing center, which would offer 
women individualized attention and 
privacy but would 
provide 
for 
physician attendance and easy access 
to hospitals. In January of 1985, under ,. 
the joint auspices of a consumer group 
and some professors at the Nursing 
School, including Helen Burst, the 
Family Childbirth Center opened in 
the Temple Medical Building in New 
Haven. Not a Yale-affiliated projec:t, 


the center still received lip service from 
the medical school. However, after 
shutting down temporarily during the 
insurance crisis and reopening in 
November of 1985, 
the center 
underwent what Burst calls a "very 
efficient physician boycott" by most 
area OB-GYN specialists. In October 
• of 1986, with only a few clients and no 
expectation of forthcoming support, 
the birthing center closed its doors. 

Despite the quick failure of the 
birthing center, Burst has high hopes 
for a similar project in the future. "We 
went through every 
hoop, 
every 
bureaucratic procedure, in laying the 
groundwork. We proved it could be 
done, right here in Connecticut, right 
here in New H aven," she says. 

Marshall Holley says that he would 
have liked to admit patients to the 
Birthing Center but that the difficulties 
posed by splitting admissions with the 
hospital were too great, a problem1 
unlikely to be resolved in the near; 
future. And if Burst's assumption 
about the recalcitrance of doctors to 
support a birthing center is correct, a 
~ more profound change than a simple 
administrative success will be 
necessary to find a workable solution. 

For the time being, Burst says, she is 
concentrating on issues more readily 
resolved: in creased prescriptive 
authority, expanded hospital 
privileges, and a stable insurance 
policy. W ittreich's and Lisk's concerns 
are even more immediate. They 
revolve around the ringing of the tele-
phone that tells them one of their 
clients is about to go into labor. Then 
there will be the hours of sitting by the 
bedside, urging the woman to push, to 
breathe. After the baby is born, Linda 
Lisk will get a new picture or two for 
her wall. She probably won't be in it, 
''" b ut you'll know she's there. 
• 
Jennifer Sachs, a senior in Ezra Stiles, u 
l'fii.Uuzging editor of TNJ. 


JINTIOUITY 
Specializing in 19th and early 
20th century American art 
Mosque, Kalrovan, Tunisia 25" x 30" 
by Colin Campbell Cooper, circa 1900 
Open Tues.-Sat. 10:30-5 
Sun.-Mon.-Tues. 
by chance or appointment 
D. SMERNOFF, OWNER 
900 Whalley Ave. 
(203) 389-6722 (203) 389-2334 


NEW HAYEN'S LARGEST 
SELECTIONS OF SCHOOL SUPPLIES 
rn11•er-1CJII 
. __ _. 
I"' Stationers 
Quick access to over 50,000 products 
Including: 
20% off with 
student I.D. 
only 3 blocks 
from the green 
computer supplies • office supplies 
computer furniture • custom rubber stamps • stationery 
art/drafting materials• gifts 
cards • copying services 
534 State Street 
New Haven CT 
Mon-Fri. 8-5 
789-1414 


3TVs 
(One 45 Inch Screen) 
Oldies Jukebox and Bumper Pool Table 
Happy Hour 4·6 pm Monday thru Friday 
All Beer and Well Drinks $1.00 
On the Corner of Park and Chapel 


• Lee 
• Levis 
• Dickies 
• Puma 
• Nike 
• Adidas 
• Converse • 
"New Haven area's only Army & Navy" 
• Basic Jeans 
• Duffles & Back Packs 
• Leather & Denim Jackets 
• Sneakers & Workboots 
• Military Surplus 
• Casual Footwear 
• Actlvewear 
• Camp Supplies 
• Sweatwear & Warm·ups 
• Shorts & Tee·Shlrts 
We carry extra large sizes 
In Jeans, Sweat Shirts & Pants 
Work Clothing & Outerwear 
185 Whalley Ave. 1019 Orange Ave. ~"' 
(next to Burger King) 
(Post Road) 
New Haven 
West Haven 
865-4131 
934-2900 
(Also in Bridgeport & Danbury) 
• Timberland 
• Calvin Klein 
• Duofold 
• Herman Survivors • 
Fila • 


**Medical Mystery Tour**
**Author: Cindy Cameros**
**Page number(s): 42**

Books/Cindy Cameros 
· 
Medical Mystery Tour 
Second Seed 
Mary Lake Polan, M: D. 
Charles Scribner's Sons 
280 pp., $17.95 
The scene: an anonymous Middle 
Eastern nation. The time: now. The 
plot: 
thickening. The 
beautiful 
princess Aliza lies comatose, stabbed 
in the chest in an assassination attempt 
ordered by her power-hungry cousin 
Turek. If Aliza dies, her husband Al-
Benir must forfeit power to Turek. But 
the princess must not only stay alive: 
unless the royal couple can somehow 
produce a son within three years, the 
reform-minded Al-Benir will have to 
step down. The princess shows no 
signs of recovery, and time is running 
out. The logistics sound daunting in 
Dr. Mary Lake Polan's thriller, Second 
Seed. But perhaps even more intriguing 
than the plot is the fact that an 
associate professor from Yale Medical 
School wrote this type of noveL 

Although the law "publish or perish" 
rules tenure these days, this book is 
probably not what the committee had 
in mind. 

The novel isn't a whodunnit. It's a 
can-they-do-it: Can the princess still 
conceive and bear a child? Polan, a 
reproductive 
endocrinologist and 
gynecologist, should know. As an 
associate professor in the Medical 
School with both M.D. and Ph.D. 
degrees, Polan has studied infertility 
and its remedies, including in-vitro 
fertilization. Although her background 
might undermine an entertainment 
novel by burdening it with a scholarly 
tone and multisyllabic words lacking 
an appropriate number of vowels, it 
doesn't here. In fact, the medical 
descriptions are the book's most 
authentic. 

As a medical novel, Second Seed 
educates about in-vitro fertilization 
and also implicitly questions the uses 
and abuses of today's technology. But 
don't be scared away. 
This isn't 
Organic Chemistry- it's 
more like 
.. General Hospital." As a suspense 
thriller, 
Second Sud successfully 
entertains. 

The plot becomes more complex 
when Polan exchanges the Middle 
Eastern country, Al-Benir and 
company for a new set and new 
characters. The curtain rises on, not so 
surprisingly, 
a 
small city 
in 
Connecticut. In this mild locale, a 
Yuppie couple debates whether or not 
to have a child. She's a doctor, he's a 
lawyer, she wants the kid and he says 
OK. Don't worry- it gets interesting. 

An ectopic pregnancy leaves Beth, the 
heroine, unable to conceive by the 
usual means. Instead, she resolves to 
undergo in-vitro fertilization and 
convinces 
her skeptical husband, 
David, to agree to the operation. 

While most people recognize the 
term "test-tube baby," few grasp the 
actual process involved in making one. 
Polan translates in-vitro fertilization 
into layperson's terms. Her version 
runs thus: After taking medicine to 
make her ovulate, Beth is ready for Dr. 
Joshua Wolff to operate and "harvest" 
her eggs. 

He picked the ovary up and held it 
suspended in the middle of the belly 
... Taking the needle. he angled it 
downward until it was poised just 
over the top of the first follicle .... 
"Get ready," said Richards. 
"Suck." He plunged the needle 
directly into the center of the fluid-
filled cyst. 
"You've got it." 

After vacuuming out Beth's follicle, 
Dr. Wolff combines the eggs with the 
sperm in a dish until they fertilize and 
start to divide. Then he reinserts the 
fertilized eggs into her uterus. But 
here's the twist: Al-Benir and Wolff 
were college chums (Harvard, of 
course). Princess Aliza cannot carry a 
child to term. And we know that, while 
comatose, PrinceJs Aliza underwent 
the same operation. So the reader 
wonders: whose child is it-Beth and 
David's or Aliza and Al-Benir's? 

Though medical technology appears 
primarily as a constructive tool in 
Second Seed, Polan explores its negative 
side as well. Thanks to modern 
medicins:, Beth can become pregnant. 
But because of a doctor's weakness; she 
becomes 
political 
pawn. 
Technology's values Polan suggests, 
depends upon the person who wields it. 
1 ecnnotogy's value, Polan suggests, 

After becoming pregnant, 
Beth 
notices strange cars stalking her. When 
she confides her anxieties to David, he 
ignores them. Instead, Beth must turn 
to 
her secretary, 
who 
intuitively 
believes that someone is trying to kill 
her boss. Throughout Second Seed, 
Polan portrays a world dominated by 
men. Beth survives through brains, 
resolve 
and 
luck, 
cajoling and 
outthinking men to achieve her goals. 

As David says, she is "one determined 
lady." And her drive enables her to 
endure and overcome any obstacles 
presented by men. Strangely, while 
Polan characterizes women as capable 
and strong-willed, she fails to develop 
any female characters other than Beth. 
The men share the limelight, while the 
rest of the women remain "shadowy 
characters at best. 

Almost uniformly, Polan depicts 



**A Review of Second Seed**
**Author: Cindy Cameros**
**Page number(s): 43**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
men as imperceptive, self-centered, 
and power-obsessed. While the women 
heal and protect, the men destroy. 
Women rely on intuition; men depend 
more on facts. The men educated in 
the West and those from the Middle 
East treat women in the same way. Al-
Benir and Turek, even Wolff, regard 
Beth as a "vessel" with one purpose- to 
perpetuate a male-dominated line. The 
presence of David, Beth's modern but 
frequently obtuse husband, does little 
to balance this portrayal. 

As the novel zips along, occasion~ 
potholes in the plot cause some:· 
discom fort. At the beginning, Polan 
refers to Aliza as both the "eldest" and 
"only" daughter of a sheik. Later, when 
'-< David readily supports Beth's decision 
to undergo in-vitro fertilization, the 
reader wonders what happened to the 
"rational" 
man 
who "considered 
decisions long and carefully." Did he 
get caught up in a feminine wave of 
emotion? The ending is jolting also. 
Polan 
hammers in her symbolic 
representation of the 
differences 
between men and women. Amidst the 
oversymbolism and melodrama, the 
ending dissolves into a farce. StiJI, the 
last pages also demonstrate her talent 
for making medical descriptions com-
pelling. The birth scene, detailed in 19 
pages, is one of the most tense and 
climactic of the book. 

Polan as interpreter allows the 
'"' reader to see into a world that, 
otherwise, would be incomprehensibly 
laden with professional jargon. In 
Second Seed, she imbues the scenes with 
an insider's familiarity. Through Beth 
We can observe the operations from the 
doctor's viewpoint: 
Beth took the knife and opened the 
incision at both ends, hoping the case 
would not get too complicated. After 
enlarging the incision, Beth put her 
hand in and delivered a d istended, 
discolored appendix dripping with 
infection. Working carefully to avoid 
spilling the green pus all over the 
abdomen, 
t hey 
removed the 
appendix and dropped the tied-off 
stump back into the wound ... Her 
hands worked automatically, tying 
and cutting as her mind wandered. 
I hope that tube works afln the inftction 
cleo.rs up, she thought. Otherwise we'll 
wind up with a blocked tube and she may 
never get pregnant. Sad for a twenty-two-
year-old. 

Earlier , Beth realizes that she must 
make a strong first impression on Dr. 
Wolff because brilliant doctors are 
frequently very busy and capricious. 
And Beth makes a quick plug for the 
doctors who make us suffer in the 
waiting room: "She forced herself to sit 
still and not ask the receptionist why 
Dr. Wolff wasn't there yet: she knew 
how much Sarah disliked patients who 
couldn't understand about emergencies 
or schedule changes, and she knew 
from her own experience that it was 
impossible for a doctor always to be on 
time." After reading this book we feel 
that we understand 
the medical 
profession and its practitioners better. 

In Second Seed, Polan has succeeded 
in creating an exciting and unique, if 
implausible, 
novel. 
And she 
has 
reduced the professional jargon to a 
digestible substance. At another level, 
the novel raises questions about the 
potential of technology and the persons 
who control this power. Luckily for 
this thriller, Polan has left the answers 
to a more staid book. 

Cindy Cameros ts a sophomore zn Ezra 
Stiles. 
The New JournaVSeptember 4, 1987 43 


**Afterthought**
**Author: Natalie Zemon Davis**
**Page number(s): 44-45**

Afterthought/Natalie Zemon Davis 
. 
An Informed Assemblage 
"What does it mean to be inter-
disciplinary?" I asked myself as I 
packed up my papers to come to Yale 
for the spring term of 1987. The 
director and fellows of the Whitney 
Humanities Center had invited me to 
be this year's Henry Luce Visiting 
Scholar in the Humanities and Social 
Thought, and I was looking forward to 
a setting where my colleagues would 
come from several fields. I was not 
disappointed. The professors grouped 
round the table in discussion every 
Friday were indeed diverse: from 
history, my own familiar field; from 
art history and the various literature 
departments; from philosophy, reli-
gion and political science; from the law 
school and even microbiology. In an 
essay published in 1980, Geoffrey 
Hartman had regretted that there was 
"barely any contact" between history 
and English. Clearly the situation has 
changed at Yale in these last years, and 
the Whitney Humanities Center has 
cut down on isolation. 

But what kinds of things are we 
saying to each other? What is involved 
when we borrow from or expand into 
another field? There are several 
possibilities. We can use each other's 
studies for our own purposes: in my 
current research on gifts and bribes in 
sixteenth-century France, I have been 
scavenging the art-historical publi-
cations for the iconography of the 
Three Graces, while Thomas Greene, 
in his work on poetry as a form of 
magic, has been reading historical 
publications on peasant spells and 
incantations. We can take as the center 
of our analysis texts or objects usually 
thought to "belong" to another field: 
John Michael Montias has used the 
artistic production of seventeenth-
century Delft as the data for an 
important book in economic history. 
And we can appropriate each other's 
models for explanation and inter-
pretation: Peter Brooks' Reading for the 
Plot uses Freud's theory of psychic 
processes in persons to renew our 
understanding of the narrative 
44 The New Journal/Seotember 4. 1987 
movement of texts. 

The cross-disciplinary harvest has 
been abundant; it seemed to me a good 
moment to speculate on its signi-
ficance. Is the exchange between fields 
an indication of boredom or bank-
ruptcy within individual disciplines? 
Or is this a way that fields have often 
been nourished over the historical 
past? Is it part of a larger seismic 
disturbance with deeper causes, 
leading to "blurred genres" (to use 
Clifford Geertz's phrase) all over the 
sciences? What are the dangers in the 
process? Its rightful limits? Some 
fifteen years ago Rosalie Colie pointed 
out in The Resources of Kind that if we 
want the . delight and discovery of 
mixing our genres, we must have some . 
idea of genre rules to begin with. 

What better place than the Whitney 
Humanities Center for thinking about 
such questions? So I decided · to give 
my monthly Faculty Seminar the· title 
of "Shared Texts," by which I meant 
texts that no one field could rightly call 
its own "property." (They may not be 
the property of a single field, someone 
commented at the first session, but 
how much are they actually "shared," 
that is, read by different kinds of 
people? Our evenings often provided a 
first joint reading.) The notion was to 
see what wo\. 'rl happen when persons 
from different disciplines approached 
such texts- not merely what would 
happen to our understanding of their 
content and form, but what would 
happen to us as a group, to the nature 
of our debate. I chose texts that I had 
written on, but where I knew there 
could be a strongly opposed inter-
pretation, 
and 
I 
invited a 
co-
respondent from another field to lead 
off the discussion with me. 

The first text was an essay by 
Montaigne, "On the Affection of •:
Fathers for their Children" (Essays, 
Book II, chap.8). It asserts and then 
questions the power of parental 
affection, noting that fathers withhold 
needed property from their sons and 
that authors love the children of their 
brain more than the children of their 
bodies. Around '!his slippery text 
historians and literary specialists found 
some agreement. Not that we all 
thought that "De !'affection" meant the 
same thing. But it seemed that the 
effort of the historian (in this case, 
NZD) to draw upon lifetime property 
gifts and gift formulas to interpret the 
essay was the same kind of project as 
that of the critic-scholar (in this case, a 
Princeton colleague) who drew for his 
interpretation upon a death-bed gift 
from Montaigne's best friend. Did it 
make a difference that the death-bed 
gift was referred to smack in the 
middle of the essay, while the property 
gifts were scattered throughout? No 
one in the seminar said so, though the 
literary specialists were certainly not 
going to ignore the formal properties of 
the essay. Thomas Greene, my co-
respondent, made a 
compelling 
argument for a convergence of interest 
between historians and literary 
specialists in Renaissance studies, for a 
metatheory assisting our interpretation 
of diverse texts, rituals and events. 

The next session was marked by the 
same higher unity, though there was 
much quarreling about the quality of 
the "shared 
text." It 
was an , 
autobiography by Leon Modena, a 
Venetian rabbi of the early 
seventeenth century. (We read it in a 
new translation from the ·Hebrew, 
made by Mark Cohen of Princeton.) 
Celebrated for his preaching ahd


--- Page 45 ---

theological and literary publications, 
Modena revealed in his Life the secret 
agony of his gambling and his 
disappointment in his sons- one dying 
early from alchemical experiments, 
one slain by ghetto Jews before his 
eyes, and the third a wastrel and 
gambler like his father. Some seminar 
' ~ participants savored with me the 
interplay between Leon's sense of sin 
and suffering and his delight in his 
achievements, from two-year-old child 
prodigy on. Others found him a mere 
braggart, irritatingly deficient in self-
understanding. 

But the 
boundary · issue lay 
elsewhere: could a text composed 
within the conventions of Hebrew 
literature and aimed at a small circle of 
ghetto readers still be analysed 
terms of the questions one would 
writings of Montaigne or Ben-
venuto 
Cellini or the 
polymath 
Girolamo Cardano? Could Leon M o-
dena's Life be considered not only a 
Jewish autobiography but also an early 
modern European autobiography? 
Paula Hyman, my co-respondent and 
~pecialist in jewish studies, agreed that 
It could and more generally that Jewish 
social history and European social 
history could only benefit by an 
1' exchange and comparison of findings 
and of explanatory hypotheses. 
A 
discussion on the relation of gambling 
and writing was a good case in point. 

At the third session, all hell broke 
loose. 
The texts 
this 
time 
were 
sixteenth-century French 
letters of 
rem1ss1on, that is, the stories people 
told the king to get pardoned for a 
homicide they claimed was unin-
tentional, in self-defense or otherwise 
excusable. I had just finished a book 
called Fiction in the Archives, in which I 
argued that these narratives followed 
both the legal rules for what was 
pardonable and contemporary 
storytelling conventions about what 
was plausible, persuasive, funny or 
climactic. Though the letters were 
collectively authored by a notary and a 
supplicants, sometimes with advice. 
from an attorney, I tried to show that 
the supplicant's voice was the primary 
one and that· the narratives could be 
related not only to the prescriptions for 
pardon, b.ut also to the values and 
ordering principles of the person 
saving his or her neck by a story. 

Owen Fiss from the Law School re-
sponded that what was most 
interesting to him about the material 
was my aside on the Old Regime law 
of pardon for homicide; he affirmed 
that lawyers were very concerned 
nowadays about questions of nar-
rative, and that my letters of remission 
seemed to him simply the creation of 
sixteenth-century lawyers. Another 
colleague from the Law School agreed. 
Nothing I 
could say about the 
rhetorical tastes of sixteenth-century 
men of law or the limited role 
permitted them in pleading in criminal 
cases or the wide lay knowledge of 
pardon law would change their minds. 
Meanwhile, the literary people present 
took the letters of remission seriously 
as written texts: the stories in them 
were good enough to analyse in their 
own right. What difference did it make 
if a peasant's voice was "really" heard 
there or not? The little band of 
historians present exchanged glances 
and closed ranks, asserting, as did I, 
the importance of connecting social 
and cultural forms. 

Reading the letters of remission, we 
had each retreated within the borders 
of our discipline. Perhaps because of 
the novelty of the enterprise- pardon 
tales have rarely been studied as a 
genre- we each felt the need to assert 
first and foremost the central concerns 
of our field. Only armed with those 
certainties were we willing to consider 
exchange. It was a great evening, not 
the least of its fruits being O wen Fiss's 
arresting connection between discre-
tionary law and storytelling. 

The last seminar kept us still at 
creative odds. Here the "text" was a 
film, Day of Wrath, made in 1943 by the 
great Danish director Carl Dreyer. It 
was the story of punishment for witch-
craft, of accusation and self-accusation 
in a small Scandinavian town in the 
early seventeenth century. Instead of 
depicting magical practice as an orgy 
of witches' sabbath 
and demonic 
possession, it showed it in the circle of 
family- an old and weakening 
husband, a beautiful young second 
wife, a handsome son, a vindictive 
mother-in-law- and in the intimacy of 
everyday healing, harming, desire and 
jealousy. 

procla imed 
the 
film 
remarkably in tune with present day 
scholarship and maintained that Dryer's 
cinematic techniqt.ies-his play with 
blacks, whites and greys; his slow-
moving camera focussing on salient 
details like the wife's eyes- worked to 
deepen the ambiguities in the historical 
past. 

My co-respondent Brigitte 
Peucker saw 
it 
very 
differently. 
Speaking from her deep knowledge of 
theory 
and Ex pressionistic 
cinema, she presented Day of Wrath as a 
timeless account of a human predic-
ament and especially as an exploration 
of the magic of the camera's eye. 

The seminar participants reacted 
vigorously as individuals, not breaking 
along disciplinary lines; they disagreed 
with us and with each other about the 
The New J ournal/September· 4, 1987 45 



**Shared Texts: A Report**
**Author: Natalie Zemon Davis**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
themes and formal properties of the 
film. Here, even more than with letters 
of remission, I think the novelty of the 
enterprise was the key to our re-
sponses. Outside of film programs, the 
moving image is rarely the center of 
academic discourse: historians, for 
example, are only now working out a 
language to analyse how films tell 
about the past. How to borrow from 
another field when you don't know 
what the ingredients are in your own 
recipe? 

The closing hour came for that last 
session of "Shared Texts" with 
numerous people still clamoring to be 
heard. I take this aG a good sign. We 
had not realized Thomas Greene's 
vision of a common metatheory, and it 
was clear that exposing disciplinary 
criteria to each other brought as much 
vitality to our debates as startling leaps 
of connection. But I think we all went 
home with our bags fuller of tricks: 
Brigitte Peucker took a historical d~te 
had noted in one Dreyer image and 
used it to support her view of the film 
as timeless; I snatched her idea of the 
camera's magic and used it to support 
my view of the filmmaker as a sorcerer 
calling up the past. 

A 
worthy 
exchange. 

Natalie Zemon Davis is Henry Charles Lea 
Professor of History at Princeton University.


**The New Journal Recruitment**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 47**

TheNewJournal 
Vle've got our eye on you. 
Everyone's busy this time of year, but why not 
take time to check out The New Journal? 
For the past five years Yale's best writers, 
editors, photographers, designers and business 
people have dedicated time and energy to this 
award-winning magazine. 
But we need new people, new talent and new 
ideas to keep our magazine alive and growing. 
Come to our meeting, talk-with our staff and 
learn about The New Journal. And tell us about 
your ideas. 
ORGANIZATIONAL 
MEETING 
10:00 P.M. Wednesday, September 9 
Silliman Common Room 


**Yale University Bands 1987-88**
**Author: Thomas C. Duffy**
**Page number(s): 48**

The Yale University Bands 1987-88 
Thomas C. Duffy, Director 
Yale Concert Band 
Sixty to seventy select brass, woodwind, and percussion players performing from the entire repertoire of symphonic wind 
music: marches, ·band standards, classical transcriptions, and contemporary works including special commissioned 
compositions. 
AU indoor concerts are at8:00 p.m. in Woolsey Hall. 
• Saturday , Oct. 10 Parents Day Concert, with the Yale Glee Club, Yale Symphony & Whiffenpoofs 
• Friday, Oct. 30 
Fall Concert "Memories of the Orient": includes music from and about Japan, as heard 
on the Yale Band's tour in May, 1987, to Tokyo and surrounding areas 
• Friday, Dec. 4 
Special Holiday Concert: 
the Yale Concert Band 
will combine with the 
United States 
• Friday, Feb. 12 
• Friday, April 15 
• Sunday, MaY' 29 
7:00p.m. 
Old Campus 
Coast Guard 
Band for the second 
time since 1979 
Information: 432-4113 
Winter Concert 
Pops Concert 
Twilight Concert, including 
Tchaikovsky's 1812 Overture 
with live artillery and the 
Harkness Memorial Carillon 
Yale Jazz Ensemble 
A twenty-piece Big Band playing everything from 
Dixieland to classic Ellington and Basie tunes to the 
latest contemporary compositions. Available for 
parties and other festive occasions. 
• Wednesday, Nov. 18 
8:00 p.m. Sprague Hall 
• Tuesday, March 8 
• Weekend of April 30 
Sixth Ivy League Jazz Festival 
Cross Campus, 432-4113 for info. 
Yale Concert Band performing in Tokyo, June 1987, 
for the convention of the Japanese Band Association. 
Yale Precision Marching Band 
125-250 musicians and others both 
celebrated and infamous for a unique blend 
of musiciai and topical satire performed 
at football games, pep rallies , and the like. 
Sept. 19 
Brown 
26 
UConn 
Oct. 
3 
at 
Hawaii 
10 
William & Mary 
(Parents Weekend) 
17 
Columbia 
24 
Penn 
31 
Dartmouth 
Nov. 
7 
Cornell 
14 
Princeton 
21 
Harvard 
All Yale Band concerts, unless noted otherwise, are free and open to the public. For more information about any 
aspect of the program, call 432-4111 or write: Yale Univ. Band, 3-A Yale Station, New Haven, CT 06520. The 
Yale Concert Band's new compact disc and LP recorded in Tokyo, Japan will be available after October 29, 1987 . 

