Publication date: Apr. 2015
Volume: 47
Issue number: 5

**MASTHEAD**
- editor-in-chief: Maya Averbuch
- executive editor & publisher: Caroline Sydney
- managing editor: Isabelle Taft
- senior editors: Hayley Byrnes, Caroline Durlacher, Kendrick McDonald, Lara Sokoloff
- associate editors: Ruby Bilger, Joyce Guo, Libbie Katsev, Elena Saavedra Buckley
- design editors: Chris Paolini, Ivy Sanders-Schneider, Edward Wang
- illustrator: Madeleine Witt


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- Expect the Worst - Isabelle Taft
- The Uncertain Hour - Edward Columbia
- points of departure - Sarah Holder, Catie Liu and Jacob Potash
- An Urban Love Affair - Elizabeth Miles
- Crumbs - Katy Osborn
- Evergreen’s Memory Upload - Elena Saavedra Buckley
- The Dream House - Ruby Bilger
- Listening to Africa - Coryna Ogunseitan


**Title: The Uncertain Hour**
**Author: Edward Columbia**
**Page number(s): 1, 3**

[ CONVERSATIONS WITH NEW HAVEN’S 
EX-OFFENDERS IN THE FIRST MOMENTS OF FREEDOM ]


**Title: Expect the Worst**
**Author: Isabelle Taft**
**Page number(s): 3**

In an age of false security, preppers plan for disaster


**Title: points of departure**
**Author: Sarah Holder, Catie Liu and Jacob Potash**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: An Urban Love Affair**
**Author: Elizabeth Miles**
**Page number(s): 9**


**Title: Crumbs**
**Author: Katy Osborn**
**Page number(s): 12**


**Title: Evergreen’s Memory Upload**
**Author: Elena Saavedra Buckley**
**Page number(s): 14**


**Title: The Dream House**
**Author: Ruby Bilger**
**Page number(s): 17**


**Title: Listening to Africa**
**Author: Coryna Ogunseitan**
**Page number(s): 38**



**Title: What happens when professors assign their own writing**
**Author: Sarah Holder**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A
t the beginning of every semester, Yale Law 
School professor Ian Ayres stands at the front of 
the classroom and opens his wallet. He pulls out crisp 
bills and hands them out, one by one, to the pass­
ing law students. The students walk out not only with 
their casebooks, but also with ten dollars from the 
author himself.

In a 2005 New York Times opinion article titled 
“Just What the Professor Ordered,” Ayres sparked a 
national debate when he wrote, “Professors’ incen­
tives in choosing textbooks are in some ways more 
distorted than doctors’ incentives in choosing drugs.” 
On average, course book authors receive ten percent 
of the cover price in royalties for each book sold. Ayres 
argued that they could abuse their freedom to assign 
reading for financial gain.

Ayres finds this freedom particularly alarming given 
soaring textbook prices. In 2013, the National Associa­
tion of College Stores, a campus retail group, estimated 
the cost of one new textbook to be seventy-nine dollars, 
bringing the average cost of a student’s required course 
materials to over six hundred dollars per semester.

The American Association of University Profes­
sors delegates responsibility to individual universities 
to regulate this ethical quandary. Professors at Virgin­
ia State, the University of Minnesota, and Southern 
Utah University, for example, must have their syllabi 
screened by committees for potential conflicts of in­
terest. After a November 2014 article published in 
the University of Buffalo’s newspaper, The Spectrum, 
exposed professors who assign their own books for 
profit, the university’s Faculty Senate instated a com­
mittee to draft a policy addressing the matter. 
Yale, however, does not monitor the texts profes­
sors assign. When I scoured the new Faculty Standards 
of Conduct draft, I found no mention of the topic. 
When I wrote Stephanie Spangler, head of the Ad Hoc 
Committee on Faculty Standards of Conduct, she con­
firmed its absence and directed me to the University’s 
policy on conflicts of interest, where, again, there was 
no explicit reference to assigning textbooks.

Regardless, some Yale professors have heard 
Ayres’s clarion call. Journalism professor Steven Brill 
promised to give his students a check if they pur­
chased his book, America’s Bitter Pill, at the end of 
this past semester. Music professor Craig Wright puts 
a picture of a ten-dollar bill on the last slide of his pre­
sentations, prompting students to come forward and 


“retrieve the money that is rightly theirs.” But most 
Yale educators are reluctant to make such refunds.

I walk into American Studies professor Matthew 
Jacobson’s office to discuss one of twelve required 
texts on his “Formations of Modern American Cul­
ture” syllabus, What Have They Built You to Do, a book 
about Cold War America and the film The Manchurian 
Candidate. My questions, however, aren’t about Mc­
Carthyism or communist ideology. Instead, they are 
about present-day capitalism. The book, co-written 
by Jacobson, costs $1.04 on Amazon for a used copy, 
$10.87 for a Kindle edition, and $17.96 for a new pa­
perback. “None of us are in it for the money,” Jacob­
son tells me, “People don’t even think of it as income. 
I can show you stubs from royalty checks that are, 
like, forty dollars.”

Professor Robyn Creswell assigns his own edition 
of That Smell and Notes from Prison for the course 
“Politics and Literature of the Middle East.” He, too, 
responds to my questions with a shrug. As a translator, 
his royalties are only one to two percent of the cover 
price, and only when the book is purchased new. Ja­
cobson hasn’t negotiated for Kindle profits, and pro­
fessor David Blight says he makes no royalties off A 
Slave No More “for complicated contractual reasons.”

I’ve been at Yale for four semesters and I’ve been 
assigned five books written by my professors, on ev­
erything from environmental law to poetry. I haven’t 
asked any professors for a refund. But inspired by 
Ayres’s insistence, I shyly ask professor Creswell 
whether he’d consider handing out cash if the profits 
were greater. “Maybe I would take students out for 
doughnuts,” he says.

As I speak to professor Ayres on the phone, I 
pace back and forth in Sterling’s nave, watching stu­
dents thumb through thousands of dollars worth of 
readings. I’ve started viewing the books as their re­
ceipts, but Ayres snaps me out of it, reminding me 
that books, above all, are meant to teach students. 
“I’m hired to transmit ideas I think are of value,” 
Ayres says. “Assigning a book you’ve written allows 
you to more officially profess ideas you created and 
believe in passionately.”

But there’s an inherent conflict of interest here, 
too. CAN—OR WILL—STUDENTS OBJECTIVELY 
DISCUSS AND CRITIQUE 
THE AUTHOR’S 
ARGUMENT WHEN 
THEIR GRADE DEPENDS 
ON THEIR RELATIONSHIP 
WITH SAID AUTHOR?

When professor Creswell asks my class what we 
think of his translation, we compliment the rawness of 
the language, the shortness of the sentences. We don’t 
find anything to criticize. But, Creswell says, “students 
certainly have to be made to feel that they are inter­
locutors,” empowered to participate and respond.  

To that end, Jacobson asks his graduate students 
to write critical responses to the readings he assigns, 
including his own. “If they promise to be respectful, 
I promise not to be defensive,” he chuckles. Similarly, 
Brill assigns the forty-page article upon which Amer­
ica’s Bitter Pill was based, providing students with 
thick stacks of the photocopied pages. “I told them 
to find something badly sourced or badly written,” 
he says.  

Some professors circumvent the question of text­
book profits by allocating them to a charity related to 
their field. John Grim, who teaches courses on reli­
gion and ecology, donates to Native American groups. 
George Chauncey, the instructor of “U.S. Lesbian and 
Gay History,” donates to groups advocating for LB­
GTQ rights and researching AIDS. 

But Ayres still implores Yale professors to consider 
returning the proceeds to the students who are there 
to learn. “I call upon students to ask their professors 
to join me in disgorging the profits,” he proclaims. 
“Rather than there being a law, let’s start modestly by 
just politely asking.” Nowadays, he prefers to let his 
administrative assistant handle this “disgorgement,” 
as he calls it. Handing out cash himself has come to 
seem too dramatic, he says. And besides, he doesn’t 
always have exact change. 
Sarah Holder is a sophomore 
in Saybrook College.



**Title: FINDING ITS CENTER The Yale Center for British Art restores Louis Kahn’s vision**
**Author: Catie Liu**
**Page number(s): 6**

T
he Yale Center for British Art is a shell of its former 
self. The once-open portico at the entrance has 
been sealed off and replaced by a single small door. 
The lobby is a construction zone draped in blue tarp. 
The museum, closed for renovations this past January, 
will not reopen until spring 2016. As I walk to the 
front desk, I feel I’m interrupting a work in progress. 
Stripped down to its steel frame, the YCBA is ready 
for renewal. The conservation project is the Center’s 
largest refurbishment since 1998. It is a critical up­
grade of the nearly 40-year-old infrastructure, but the 
plan goes beyond routine maintenance. The Center’s 
staff aspires to return to architect Louis I. Kahn’s orig­
inal vision, using blueprints, sketches, and notes from 
the 1974 construction. 

“You’ll have to wear a hardhat,” YCBA Deputy 
Director Constance Clement tells me, “and sign this 
release form.” The chaotic construction site is the cul­
mination of more than a decade of planning by YCBA 
Director Amy Meyers and Clement. We climb the 
stairs to the fourth floor, holding railings wrapped in 
plastic. The Center’s installation team carefully moves 
the art to other floors before the construction pro­
ceeds, attentive to Paul Mellon’s request that works 
of art he donated be housed in the building. Much 
of the building has been torn out—the carpets, the 
linen walls, the insulation, the movable gallery walls, 
down to the tubes that drain condensation from the 
windows. The gruff world of construction has tempo­
rarily taken the place of delicate paintings. 

Daphne Kalomiris, an architect with Knight Archi­
tecture LLC, explains the logistics as we walk through 
the Center. The exterior walls will be stuffed with a 
mineral wool for insulation. The moveable interior 
walls will be raised slightly off the floor, in keeping 
with a 1974 Kahn sketch. 

The level of attention to the smallest functional 
detail is reminiscent of Kahn’s own obsessive care for 
design. “We’ve literally had to get inside of Kahn’s 
mind,” Kalomiris explains. She describes studying ev­
ery scrap of planning that Kahn left behind. His vision 
was grand: a building that would provide the best 
possible viewing experience and still leave spaces for 
study, fulfilling the Center’s educational goals.

In a way, the building is the Center’s greatest work 
of art, a masterpiece whose original materials are part 
of its ethos. As we continue along the fourth floor, 
Clement and Kalomiris lift up a strip of wood from 
the floor to reveal travertine underneath. “It’s less ex­
pensive and less effort to replace travertine tiles than 
to repair them,” Kalomiris gestures to the cracks and 
worn edges, “but our entire mission is to conserve.” 
This notion of conservation extends even to the lay­
out of the galleries and their relationship to the art they 
contain. The 1998 renovation project divided the fourth 
floor’s Long Gallery, but the new renovations will reopen 



**Title: Yale Center for British Art: Under Construction**
**Author: Catie Liu**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Yale Center for British Art (YCBA) is currently undergoing renovations.  The Long Gallery, the heart of the museum, will be transformed. The space will be filled with salon-style hangings—dense, floor-to-ceiling painting displays, instead of the widely-spaced displays common in modern museums—and will no longer be subdivided. The change will allow the display of a greater number of works.  At the east end of the Long Gallery, a new Collections Seminar Room, similar to the current Study Room on the second floor, will allow students and visitors to work closely with individual prints, drawings, and rare books.


Even while closed, the Center remains dedicated to sharing its work with the public. It recently lent works to the Yale University Art Gallery, the Art Institute of Chicago, and Metropolitan Museum of Art. In conjunction with the release of its recent book co-published with the School of Architecture, Louis Kahn in Conversation, the YCBA has also organized lectures at Yale and at the upcoming New Haven International Festival of Arts & Ideas this summer. Linda Friedlaender, the Center’s curator of education, has continued to oversee Artism, a weekend art program for children on the autism spectrum. And the Center’s student guide program has kept up its weekly training sessions.


We descend the stairs and find ourselves once more in the lobby. Stepping over blue tarp, I think of director Amy Meyer’s words that the conservation plan the Center has published is a “living, breathing document.” Never before has it felt more appropriate to see the YCBA as a living, breathing building, one that has reached another critical point in its lifespan. 
Catie Liu is a freshman in 
Ezra Stiles College.


**Title: The Panthean Temple’s Occult Community**
**Author: Jacob Potash**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

Nothing seems to shock Alicia. The best anyone can manage is to make her laugh. It’s more a thrum, a trill, always drawn out a beat too long. It’s what I hear when I ask her on the phone if I can join any of the events at the Panthean Temple. Weekly rituals are open to the public, so she sends me a friend request on Facebook and tells me that next Saturday’s gathering will be an “Ostara.” But she offers no further explanation.


The sign outside Alicia’s door reads, “Witches Parking Only, All Others Will Be Toad.” When we meet, her overall effect is handsome: her tranquil gaze, her cascading reddish hair and her wide figure, clad in black velour. We pass through a small kitchen and take a seat in a living room filled with paintings and pagan paraphernalia. To the world, she is the Reverend Alicia Lyon Folberth, president and priestess of Connecticut’s first Wiccan and pagan temple. Her website boasts of its certification: the Temple is a 501(c)3 organization. Alicia is now a neophyte, by oath, in what is called Odyssean Wicca. She is recognized as head clergy by the state, authorizing her to make hospital visitations and perform weddings and funerals. But she also gives psychic readings on a website run out of Luxembourg, and performs tarot readings at cafes.


I let Alicia steer the conversation. She loops in and out of anecdotes—a deluge of leads that I want to follow but can’t, because her stories run on. Soon it becomes clear that there is no temple. There is Alicia’s apartment in Derby, Connecticut. There is Panera Bread, a favorite meeting place. There was a Unitarian church, but only briefly. There was also Alicia’s bookstore in East Haven, but she lost it during the hard years when the recession struck, just as she was divorcing her husband. I realize that the Temple exists wherever Alicia may be.


Wicca is a religion that’s hard to pin down. Developed in mid-twentieth-century England, it draws on ancient and modern conceptions of the occult. Attending public classes is the first stage of commitment; once neophytes have sworn their oaths, membership in the Temple, the Outer Court, and the Inner Court, comes into reach. The Temple’s Articles of Faith could constitute a manifesto of modern liberalism: “Harm none”; religious tolerance; environmental consciousness; gender parity.


But the Panthean Temple’s congregants are not united by any particular tradition. Rather, they share a propensity for free religious thinking, since most having turned away from the strict faith in which they were raised. Asked to explain the difference between prayer and Wicca magic, Alicia tells that me that magic “is an active form of prayer. We’re working directly without deities, there’s not this kind of top-down structure.” Pagans, from what I gather, are people who see the status quo as corrupt. Before the ritual, the conversation winds from the danger of vaccines, to the menace of corporations, to the greediness of Christianity.


Looking back, Alicia tells me that she found divinity in the woods of North Salem, New York. One day, her father began to chop down her favorite tree, and from inside, she could hear her tree screaming. Why couldn’t her parents hear it? In adolescence, she discovered that she was telekinetic, too. “It’s weird when things fall off the wall,” she says, “and you realize it’s because you’re angry.”


These experiences drove Alicia to seek a spiritual outlet. At the suggestion of a holistic veterinarian who had treated her ferret, she started studying Reiki, the Japanese energy-based healing practice. When a guy she’d met on a high school production of The Rocky Horror Picture Show popped up years later at a comic book signing in Philadelphia in full medieval costume, the two began dating and frequenting Dungeons and Dragons gatherings, where she met a woman who became her first Wiccan teacher. She met another at the Department of Motor Vehicles, in the early years of her practice.


People eventually turn up to the apartment, and each offers another variation on Wicca. A man and woman in their sixties are followed by a young mother carrying a two-year-old. Pat, the young mother, says that, during her Catholic upbringing, she always felt troubled by phrases like “God-fearing,” but loved learning about Greek mythology in school. So when her family got Internet access in 1997 and she discovered paganism, she immediately felt it was right for her. It took a decade for her to work up the nerve to go to a festival. Today, she’s one of Alicia’s most committed students.


When we finally begin the ritual after hours of chitchat, it turns out to be a simple affair. We stand at the corners of a small table that holds incense and candles, and we chant, “We are a circle, we are moving together, we are one.” We chant, “Hail, and welcome!” to the north, south, east, and west. We invoke Greek gods and then read a version of the myth of Hades and Persephone. We finish with a sip of grape juice and a bite of cookie. Where was the sacrifice? The spell conjuring? I look at my watch and note that, out of three hours together, we spent thirty minutes on the ritual.


These people have come together half out of a search for alternative religion, and half out of a desire for an accepting community. As Alicia’s wild life indicates, the Panthean Temple is far from just a space for witchcraft. As I look around the room, I remember the words of the older couple, erstwhile hippies who were present at the Panthean Temple’s first ritual in 1995. They are not open about their practice, so they suggest I call them Mr. and Mrs. Smith. And they insist they are not pagan, not really—they have their own nature-centric belief system. But they are here because, as Mrs. Smith mentions, “it gets a little lonely having a spirituality of just one.” 
Jacob Potash is a freshman in 
Davenport College. 
Illustration by Madeleine Witt


**Title: An Urban Love Affair**
**Author: Elizabeth Miles**
**Page number(s): 9**

Chris Randall spins around to stop a stoop-shouldered elderly woman, moving so quickly that I have to duck his arm. “Hi, Miss, I love your face—may I take your picture?” 


“Sure, where’s it going?” 


“I Love New Haven—it’s a website that celebrates people, places, and things in New Haven, and I want to celebrate you!” 


“Nah, that’s all right.”


Randall shrugs off the rejection. “I always start out thinking, oh, no one’s going to let me do this, no one’s going to want me to take their picture—but you just do it, you just ask anyway, and you end up with a post. The rejection rate is about fifty-fifty.”


His smile drops a little. “Maybe I’m weirding people out by saying, ‘I love your face.’”


Randall, a professional photographer, has made a career out of such enthusiasm. Hard to miss with his blaring bike horn, he first met his I Love New Haven collaborator, Jeffrey Kerekes, near their homes in Wooster Square. He and Kerekes—a psychotherapist and amateur photographer—established the ILNH site in 2012. Since then, five regular photographers have joined the photography team, and ILNH has accrued over eight thousand Facebook followers.


Like Brandon Stanton’s Humans of New York, ILNH often employs a candid plus caption format—except with a universally positive vibe. It has highlighted Boxing in Faith, a nonprofit gym that trains at-risk youth to box, and the Under 91 project, which decorated the underpass below the highway with public art. Yancey Hitt, a student at Wilbur Cross High School, contributed a photo essay on New Haven Reads, the community book bank and tutoring program.


While the oft-T-shirted and gift-mug’d phrase “I Love New York,” is universally recognized, “I Love New Haven” is still catching on. The ILNH site is an evolving project, rather than a viral feel-good phenomenon, or a larger-scale tourism campaign. But Randall dreams big: he wants to radically rebrand the city through a glossy photo makeover. Whether this is grounded in residents’ true feelings about their city is unclear. Who is the “I” in I Love New Haven?


Walking through Yale’s campus, we pass a tall couple. The man has stubble and neon-rimmed glasses, so Randall jumps in. “Hi, I like you guys’ faces, can I take your picture?” The woman just walks away, and the man shakes his head, “Oh no, no, n—”


“C’mon, I’m Chris.”


“I know who you are, I do. I work for Market New Haven, so we repost a lot of your stuff—but no.”


“Why not?”


“Because I’m behind the scenes like you are, man!”


Randall laughs, and after pressing him once more unsuccessfully, turns onto York Street. Stopping a student, he tells her he likes the contrast between her hair and the leaves. “Can I ask you to make a funny face?” She sticks out her tongue and half-closes her eyes. A masterpiece, and Randall’s first “yes.” The fifty-fifty rejection rate had to turn over sometime.


Whenever you see him on the street, Randall is chatting animatedly with strangers, or whirling abruptly to salute a friend half a block away. Kerekes, a 35-year-old with glasses and greying brown hair, is the quieter half of ILNH, the pragmatist to Randall’s dreamer.


Still, Kerekes has been known to step from behind the lens into the public eye. In 2011, frustrated with high taxes, he ran for mayor of New Haven, challenging the eighteen-year incumbent John DeStefano Jr. Kerekes, a newcomer, lost by only ten percent, though DeStefano outspent him by over a half million dollars.


Randall has political experience too: he worked for the New Haven Land Trust and co-chaired Ward 8 from 2003 to 2013. However, he made his name as a photographer by sneaking into Mill River’s defunct and contaminated English Station power plant, ignoring warnings that the site was toxic and that he could be arrested for trespassing.


Together, Randall and Kerekes see ILNH as a way to—in the words of their website—“Promote snapshot



**Title: Community Engagement and Civic Pride**
**Author: Elizabeth Miles**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
THE NEW JOURNAL
10
Community Engagement and Civic Pride.” Randall 
cited the Inside Out New Haven photo series as an 
example of what photography could accomplish. In 
2012, he and other Inside Out photographers mount­
ed four-by-six-foot black-and-white portraits of New 
Haven residents onto the underpasses that divide 
neighborhoods around State Street. Drivers would 
stop, meet each other, get their photo taken, and then 
continue on. 
For Kerekes, ILNH is an effort to shift the me­
dia’s focus away from crime reports. “‘If it bleeds, it 
leads,’ seems to be the policy. When I was 30, I moved 
to New Haven, and its reputation just didn’t match 
the experience,” he says. A neighbor told him he 
shouldn’t go out after dark. “I laughed at him, but he 
was dead serious.”

We lapse into technical conversations about RAW 
files and Photoshop, how best to organize memory 
cards. Kerekes gives no gratuitous smiles. He talks 
with his eyebrows instead. When I ask whether or not 
he loves the Elm City more after founding ILNH, his 
eyebrows shoot up and then knit themselves together 
as he considers his answer. He pauses, and then says 
he isn’t sure. But do his subjects? “Some do, some 
don’t,” he says.

He leans forward and whispers, “That’s why we 
chose the name, I Love New Haven. After a while, 
hopefully people feel that way.”

With Randall, New Haven seems like a smaller 
version of itself, one where a police officer on a bike 
waves to us in a quiet neighborhood. Randall photo­
graphs a security guard who worked with him at the 
Winchester factory when he made shotgun barrels 
from 1998 to 1999. He also runs into a law profes­
sor and a hot dog stand owner in a space of fifteen 
feet, and embraces them as close personal friends. 
The Yale Security guard in front of Willoughby’s yells 
across York Street that Randall just missed the Ash­
ley’s ice cream truck—he knows that Randall goes to 
Ashley’s almost every day. 
But is the city cropped too narrowly through 
Self-portrait by Chris Randall


APRIL 2015
11
ILNH’s lens, the “Main Street” it represents an idyll 
constructed by a dreamer and a pragmatist?

As I browsed the posts on ILNH’s website with 
Carlton Heath, a 20-year-old chemistry student at 
Gateway Community College and a friend of Kerekes’s, 
he asked where the photos of Newhallville were.  
“Growing up there, I’ve seen everything. There’s 
a basketball court off Shelton Avenue, and once I was 
just having fun, playing basketball, and four teenagers 
on bicycles, in broad daylight—they started shooting 
at it. And they rode off so casually, like nothing hap­
pened.” Heath smiles bitterly. “Every night they used 
to shoot, every single night. And that’s still the way it 
is, it’s just not being put on the news as often.”

Yet, several months later, in March 2015, Heath 
invited Kerekes to follow him through Newhall­
ville. They took dozens of pictures, including a por­
trait of Heath at a basketball court. Heath wrote in 
the ILNH.com post, “There may not be luxurious 
homes and buildings over here but there are many 
luxurious people with dreams and ideas for bettering 
this community.” 

Randall could have said the same. He, at least, 
feels that ILNH has brought him closer to his neigh­
bors across the city: “Maybe it’s just because I’ve taken 
pictures so much…But I want us to feel like we’re all 
in this together, and this is a good place to be.” Af­
ter following his path through downtown, I feel like 
I’ve observed an organic experiment in cross-city in­
timacy. Randall is an optimist, undoubtedly, but as the 
site’s popularity increases, feedback from residents 
like Heath has the potential to alter its direction, ex­
panding the edges of the frame. 
ILNH is rooted in a love of photography, the 
spontaneous connection of a street portrait. “Ulti­
mately, what I want to do is depict people as people. 
To me, everybody has a story and everybody has an 
interesting face,” Randall says. 
Stick around New Haven long enough, and he’ll 
let you know in person. 
Elizabeth Miles is a sophomore in 
Jonathan Edwards College.


**Title: CRUMBS**
**Author: Katy Osborn**
**Page number(s): 12**

12
CRUMBS 
A layered look at the human body 
by Katy Osborn 
essay
I 
used to know two quarrelsome sisters, the younger of 
whom had a thing about skin cells. When they fought, 
the older sister’s coup de force would be to strip naked, 
run into the younger sister’s bedroom, and roll around 
in her sheets, yelling “SKIN CELLS SKIN CELLS!” 
It’s the first thing I think of in the Yale Mammalian 
Evolutionary Morphology Lab at 10 Sachem Street as 
Dr. Gary Aronsen, the lab manager, lifts a top-hinged 
cabinet door and wheels out a table. Much like a hospi­
tal bed, the table is covered with a white sheet and has 
foot pedals at its base: one for tilt, one for height. Less 
like a hospital bed, its white sheet is weighted by—lo 
and behold—a corpse, around which is a sprinkling of 
strings and flecks not of skin but of dehydrated flesh. 
Runaway specks of what was, in life, a short, elderly 
Chinese man. His crumbs. 
Dr. Aronsen, who is in his tenth year of super­
vising Yale’s biological anthropology labs, has a mint-



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Katy Osborn**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
APRIL 2015
13
condition Jesus action figure in his basement office 
across the hall. A look at his website suggests he wears 
mostly cargo (sometimes camo-cargo) pants and 
muscle tees. His current research is primarily on ex­
tant primate ecology and behavior—“monkey busi­ness,” quite literally. But he’s very serious about the 
sacredness of this corpse, this human being, which 
the lab purchased several years ago as an anatomi­
cal teaching tool for classes like “Human Functional 
Anatomy” and “Mammology.” “I’m going to trust that 
you’re a good person,” he says before unlocking the 
laboratory door. Now I’m stuck between a shameful 
instinct to roll in the grossness of it all (“SKIN CELLS! 
SKIN CELLS!”) and the keen sense that I’ll be struck 
by lightning (or a flying mint-condition Jesus action 
figure) at any moment. 

The man on the table has been plastinated; he has 
undergone a mummification of sorts. His body has 
been pumped with formalin to halt tissue decay, cut 
free of skin and connective tissues, dissolved of fat 
and water in an acetone bath, and, finally, stuck in a 
vacuum. Silicone rubber has replaced the water and 
fat formerly in his tissues and organs.

The 1,500-hour, $50,000 plastination procedure 
was first patented in 1977 by Dr. Gunther von Hagens, 
who has since gained infamy—and the nickname 
“Dr. Death”—for serving as the director of the inter­
national travelling corpse exhibition “Body Worlds.” 
Beyond a basic conservative revulsion, critics of von 
Hagen cite transgressions including a 2009 exhibit 
in Berlin’s Postbahnhof featuring children, dead em­
bryos, and—positioned in coitus—the bodies of two 
people who never knew each other in life. 

The body on this table comes from a “cost-for-
service” plastination lab at the University of Michigan 
Medical School, which opened after Hagens’s patent 
expired in 1989. For almost twenty-five years, the 
lab—one of the only plastination labs in the coun­
try—rendered ten to twenty donated cadavers each 
year into dry, odorless, three-dimensional models for 
anatomy education. In July 2014, it closed for reasons 
not publicized. 

Looking to the man on the table, I worry that he 
gave his body to science to escape the grossness of 
decay. Now, sections of his corpse have been dissected 
to different depths, in a sort of violent capitalization 
of his deadness. A visceral cut to the left cheek ex­
poses root-like nerve tangles. The left arm is a meaty 
hunk of fibrous muscle. A horseshoe-shaped flap in 
the chest has been sawed with a serrated blade and 
sits folded over his groin like an apron. The flap is 
topped with yellow fatty tissue and plastic-bag intes­
tines that add new color and texture to a brown body 
that is alternatingly wax paper and string and splin­
tered wood and cave rock and packing paper and rope 
and burnt poultry. And in an act of insufficient mod­
esty, the flesh apron covering the groin interrupts a 
thigh-bones-connected-to-the-hip-bone rhythm that 
could otherwise lead a person from this man’s toe­
nails (still attached, still dead), up the tendons of his 
feet, past a metal shin plate (“Property of Yale Uni­
versity Equipment #170463”) and all the way up to 
his face. Which is also in layers. One eye is closed and 
lined with a thin fuzz of short white lashes, and the 
other socket has been intricately excavated around an 
epicenter of macabreness: a shriveled eyeball. 

Then there are the pieces that have been cut away 
entirely, and sit on the white sheet to the corpse’s side. 
A lung. The heart. Half a kidney. Half a skull. The skull 
is cut at the brow line, its outside covered in peach 
fuzz and its inside cream-colored. A small cardboard 
box sits at the corpse’s feet. The box reads, “THIS SIDE 
UP.” His brain is in there, sitting on a paper towel. 

It occurs to me that I could carry this box of brain 
across the room. I could put the brain on a gradu­
ation cap that Dr. Aronsen has positioned atop a steer 
skull, and I could place the kidney half inside a binder 
on Formaldehyde Spill Protocol. The skull bowl could 
go in the sink like a dirty dish, and the heart on one 
of the paper plates sitting above the cadaver cabinet. I 
could unpack the man and carry all the little pieces 
to corners of this lab—sprinkle the room with his 
crumbs. He’d grow vast with invisible tendons, until 
everything in the room was within him and between 
him. He’d be everywhere. A landscape. He’d take up 
the whole room, and he’d never even know.
He already does.
Katy Osborn is a senior in 
Branford College. 
She is a former senior editor 
of The New Journal. 


**Title: EVERGREEN’S MEMORY UPLOAD A cemetery app brings the dead to the cloud**
**Author: Elena Saavedra Buckley**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

THE NEW JOURNAL
14
T
he walk to New Haven’s Evergreen Cemetery pre­
pares you for where you’re going. Yale New Ha­
ven Hospital, a nursing facility, and the Jewish Home 
for the Aged line Davenport Avenue leading up to 
the wrought iron gates. “RIP” is written in Sharpie 
on metal lampposts surrounding the grounds. Once, 
I saw the leathery face of a butchered pig lying 
in the street. 

But on a Sunday morning, as I passed through 
Evergreen’s brick entrance, the words “Hello and 
Welcome…” appeared on my phone over a picture of 
bright, blossoming trees and well-kept grass. Tomb­
stones—some as small as shoeboxes, some towering 
and ornate—catch the sunlight at the bottom of the 
photo. The scene is the homepage for the Evergreen 
Cemetery app, released last year by webCemeteries.
com. When it came out, Evergreen’s newsletter, The 
Bough, declared, “We are on the cutting edge of the 
Cemetery industry.” 

The app isn’t exactly Facebook for the dead, but 
it’s the closest thing. After opening the app, a user 
is offered three options: “Search,” “Nearby,” and 
“Tours,” all in modern, inviting sans serif. If you’re 
on Evergreen’s grounds, a tour places you on a satel­
lite map of the cemetery as a pulsing grey dot. Blue 
markers appear on the screen around you, pointing 
out themed collections of graves. “The Ladies of Ev­
ergreen” tour highlights tombstones with female 
statues, many with faces turned down or covered 
by a stone hand. The “Governors and Lt. Governors 
Tour” is, expectedly, pretty straightforward. 

Much of the tech experience is far removed 
from Evergreen’s gravel paths. Within days of a new 
burial, webCemeteries.com creates a profile of the 
deceased on the app and Evergreen website. Relatives 
can post photos, obituaries, life stories, and memo­
ries online. The most decorated profiles are those of 
historical figures, such as Edward Bouchet, Yale’s first 
black graduate, or William Chester Minor, who shot 
a man, entered an insane asylum, and wrote defi­
nitions for the Oxford English Dictionary (in that 
order). A few recent burials have contributions. One 
user, easily the most active, has uploaded eighty-six 
photos and more than forty memory posts on her 
husband’s page since his death in 2013. 

Dale Fiore, who has been the general man­
ager of Evergreen Cemetery since 1986, monitors 
the profiles and authored some of the tours. Fiore 
first encountered the idea for an app after seeing a 
webCemeteries.com demonstration at a trade show. 
Fiore is a loud speaker with a gravelly voice, gestur­
ing with full arms and leaning his broad shoulders 
back in his chair. “We’re a very solid, progressive 
business,” he told me. He has been at the helm of 
the cemetery’s other modernization efforts, set­
ting up a new office location and a mausoleum for 
cremated remains.

The app, his latest project, is part of his idea to 
build a “cemetery for the living.” After interrogating 
the company’s representative about the technology 
(“I really want to kick the tires and make sure things 
work before I invest in them,” he said), he brought 
the app to Evergreen, where all records now sync 
automatically with webCemeteries’ database.

I asked Fiore if having a posthumous online 
presence makes it easier to think about dying. Could 
the “online cemetery” replace the real one? He 
seemed uncomfortable with metaphysical questions. 
“I never really gave it much thought,” he said. “I want 
to make sure that in my time here I do the right 
things for sustaining the cemetery’s future, forever 
and ever.” For now, that means keeping technology 
at an involved but careful distance. “You really can’t 
feel them,” he said of personal memories, “until you 
tangibly go and touch the stone or see your loved 
one’s grave.” 

During a March snowstorm, about twenty 
women came to the cemetery on a field trip for their 
“Death and Dying” class at Albertus Magnus Col­
lege. They gathered in the crematorium in rows of 
folding chairs, and Fiore stood at the front to dis­
cuss the process of cremation before giving a tour 
of the machine. 

Evie Lindemann, the professor, was eager to talk 
about the app, an idea “fraught with difficulties and 
blessings,” she said. “The question I always ask my­
self is, what’s the nature of these connections that 
we’re establishing? I think there’s something about 
the human connection that we’re always all going 
to need.”

The class went outside to sketch tombstones 
(Lindemann has a degree in art therapy). Two of 
the students, Shironda and Tina, held umbrellas and 
wandered among graves on a hill near the cremato­
rium. They took photos of the engraved names and 
I ASKED FIORE IF 
HAVING A POSTHUMOUS 
ONLINE PRESENCE MAKES 
IT EASIER TO THINK 
ABOUT DYING. COULD 
THE “ONLINE CEMETERY” 
REPLACE THE REAL ONE? 
HE SEEMED 
UNCOMFORTABLE 
WITH METAPHYSICAL 
QUESTIONS. 
15



**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: Elena Saavedra Buckley**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
snowy grounds on their phones, and I could hear 
their laughter as I approached.  
“This death and dying class is not something 
I’m into,” Tina told me, shaking her head. She’s 
become increasingly uncomfortable over the 
course of the semester, she said. “I don’t think 
you’re ever prepared to die.” I told them about 
the app and opened the home page. They raised 
their eyebrows, but Tina seemed to get it. “On­
line has become the physical for a lot of peo­
ple,” she said, shrugging her shoulders. “It’s like 
when you go into a wake and see pictures framed 
on a table.” 

Shironda’s grandmother died three weeks be­
fore that day, and her family had just brought home 
the cremated remains. As we walked to her car, she 
talked about the process of accepting the loss. She 
would never use something like the Evergreen app, 
“but today answered a lot of questions,” she told 
me, getting into the driver’s seat. She headed back 
to school to finish class as the snow fell. 

748 Chapel Street | New Haven, CT 06510
(475) 238-6181 
whitebuffalovapors.com
: @white_buffalo_vapors
: /whitebuffalovapors
VA P O T H E C A R Y
Electronic Cigarettes, Handcrafted E-Juice, and Vapor Supply Co.
A H E A D  O F  T H E  H E R D
Driving down the Evergreen asphalt, Shironda 
reminded me of something important: she, along 
with Fiore, Lindemann, her classmates, and I, can 
leave the cemetery at any time. For the thousands 
lying still beneath the grass, though, the app might 
be the only to way to do that, to transcend a carved 
stone and fading memories. As family members 
create online resting places more personal than 
small plots of land, the “cemetery for the living” 
can extend beyond the fences of Evergreen. That’s 
good business for Fiore. But for someone like me, 
the user, meeting these people for the first time on 
the app, scrolling through profiles feels like peer­
ing into a private museum.
Elena Saavedra Buckley is a 
freshman in Silliman College. 
She is an associate editor 
of The New Journal.


**Title: THE DREAM HOUSE**
**Author: Ruby Bilger**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

W
hen you walk into Calling All Dolls, a doll shop 
and repair facility in Cobalt, Connecticut, the 
atmosphere feels tense. It’s as if you suddenly inter­
rupted a group conversation and everyone looked in 
a different direction, trying to ignore the intrusion. 
Dolls with moony eyes and plastic hair, porcelain dolls 
with tattered Victorian dresses, designer dolls with 
photo-realistic eyes sit across from each other, stuffed 
in a room and suspended in a disrupted moment. 
They don’t frighten the shop’s owner, Renee Silvester. 
She put them that way. She fixes them when they’re 
broken. She has been doing this for a long time. 
Things last longer than people do; that’s the great 
romance of collecting. But the popularity of kitsch 
objects is much shorter than a human lifespan. And 
so the collector’s nostalgia is split between the long­
ing for a time no one remembers and the wistful 
memory of one’s own life years ago—in a different 
world, full of different things. Silvester knows both 
impulses well, as the owner of a doll collection span­
ning the nineteenth century to the present day. But at 
heart, she is a child of the 1950s. This was the greatest 
era of American dolls, she says, when toy companies 
started using plastic instead of a wood-pulp material 
called composition. Suddenly, dolls were cheaper to 
manufacture and more durable, ushering in a new age 
of brand-name vinyl companions—Patti PlayPal, Toni, 
Boopsie, Lolly, Judy Splinters; the list goes on. (Barbie, 
who debuted in 1959, technically belongs to this era 
as well. This is irrelevant to Silvester. “Barbie doesn’t 
do it for me. I want a big doll,” she told me. “You can 
buy Barbie for five dollars in a drugstore. That’s not a 
doll in my mind.”) 

Silvester has a deep and engrossing appreciation 
for her dolls as artifacts—both of their historical era 
and her own life. She seems to define her childhood 
in terms of dolls. Growing up in a lower-middle-class 
Italian family in Cromwell, Connecticut, “you’d get 
one doll a year, at Christmas, maybe one on your 
birthday.” Silvester’s older sister Maria (who owns a 
doll shop in Florida) sewed her doll clothes from fab­
ric scraps. Silvester is proud and a little defensive of 
her upbringing. “I’m obsessed with high-quality doll 
clothes, I think, because we had to make all of our 
own when we were little girls,” she told me. But the 
skills came in handy—the wardrobe she sewed herself 
in high school won her “Best Dressed” in the year­
book’s senior superlatives. 

Silvester wanted to open a doll hospital since she 
first successfully reunited a doll’s leg with its body as 
a teenager. But her financial savvy trumped her child­
hood fantasies, so, newly married at 22, she worked 
administrative jobs at people hospitals and orthope­
dic practices. Travelling often for business, she started 
scouring antique shops for anything old and senti­
mental—mirrors, dolls, clothes. She even has a collec­
tion of fifties-era alligator purses, all made from real 
alligator skin, and topped off with a taxidermied baby 
alligator. All thirty-five of them filled the lobby of the 
orthopedic practice where she worked, until an anti-
leather activist picketed for their removal.

Throughout the early seventies, Silvester and her 
husband flipped houses. They took out loans to ac­
quire “handyman specials”—multi-family homes that 
needed major repairs—and renovated them on nights 
and weekends. They rented them out and Silvester 
managed the tenants, all the while working full time 
and raising two daughters and a son. It’s not clear how 
she managed such a huge workload. She has round­
about way of talking. Often she ends up at the logi­
cal opposite of where she started, despite finishing 
with a tone of finality. “Don’t forget—there’s no fun 
in my life. But that’s where I think I’m a little differ­
ent. The fun stuff has always been work. What’s fun 
for you, going out partying on a Friday night? Well 
for me, when I was younger, I used to go out danc­
ing at clubs. Ah, I was a maniac dancer. On tables, and 
that sort of thing.” 

Regardless of how she did the work, it paid off. 
In 1981 Silvester and her husband could finally afford 
the Captain Ralph Smith House, a 1780s-era build­
ing not far from Cobalt. “That was the Dream House,” 
Silvester recalls. Her plans changed four years later, 
when her husband died in a motorcycle accident. She 
moved out of the Dream House, but she came into 
a bit of inheritance money and was finally able to 
collect dolls seriously. She treats this tragedy-fortune 
complex matter-of-factly. “I just kept doing things 
without him. Never stopped.” 

I first visited Calling All Dolls because its name 
sounded like an escort service. I was travelling with 
two male friends at the time, and we noticed a sign 
on the store’s front lawn that said “Meet Grace, Doll of 
the Year!”  None of us had ever been inside a doll shop 
or an escort service, and we were eager to meet this 
mysterious “Doll of the Year.” We shuffled through 
deep snow to make it to the front door, where a 
small, hand-crank bell was situated at just the right 
height for a little girl. I bent down and rang it. A short 
woman in a grandmotherly fleece answered. Her big 
eyes scanned us over and steadied—it was Silvester. 
“Welcome,” she said. “You’re the first customers I’ve 
had all day.” She motioned us in and shook our hands. 
“And you’re in a little harem!”

Once inside, we were in the company of a thou­
sand un-blinking eyes. I quickly realized what sur­
rounded us—American Girl dolls, their vacant faces 
all the same. Children are her main customer base, 
Silvester explained, and they don’t like vintage dolls. 
But Silvester knows what they do like. Standing in 
the room felt like being inside of a birthday cake. 
The smooth pink plaster had white crown moldings, 
the little chandelier cast the space in a honey glow, 
and American Girls sat on every wall, table, shelf, 
and crevice in sight. The Doll of the Year was one of 
them—her name was Grace, and her signature trait 
was “Francophile”. Around her, there dolls on a table 
poised for a sleepover. An ice skater doll in a victory 
pose. A group of cool doll friends having a camping 
trip by the window. And, confusingly, a doll on the 
counter with a waxen head and a legless torso, straw 
bleeding from the stumps. 

Suddenly, a man with a hamster in each hand 
emerged from a door behind the cash register.  Silves­
ter introduced him as Jeff, her buddy that helps with 
repairs on weekends. “This is Peanut, and this is Prin­
cess,” he told me, as one of the vicious rodents wrig­
gled out of his grip and clawed at his arm. “They’re 
usually asleep. You can hold them. Peanut’s a biter.” 

“They used to be my grandchildren’s,” Silves­
ter explained. “But they got bored of them, so they 
live here now.” 

“Do you live here, too?” I asked her. 
“Yes, I do,” she said. “I have a space in the back. 
It’s also my repair room. And, of course, at night I pull 
out a sleeping bag and sleep with the dolls.” We made 
eye contact. She held it. 
“What?” I said. 
She paused for a second, with a wide, tepid smile. 
Then replied, “I’m kidding.” 

I returned to Silvester’s store a few months later, 
this time with a female friend who, Silvester noted, 
highly resembled a collection of red-haired artisan 
dolls in the store. Eager to talk, Silvester took us on a




**Title: Calling All Dolls**
**Author: Ruby Bilger**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
APRIL 2015
19
tour. In a side room, dolls clustered in little displays, 
organized by time period and country—a group of 
rosy-cheeked German dolls from the early nineteen-
hundreds in the corner; crazed, yarn-haired nineteen-
sixties-era cloth dolls on the shelf; a subdued brunette 
in a blue dress, sitting alone. American doll compa­
nies really started in the twenties, Silvester told me. 
The brunette was one of the only American antique 
dolls made in the early twentieth century, manufac­
tured by a New Jersey company that operated from 
1918 to 1921. 

Nearby, dozens of shoddily painted Native Amer­
ican figurines populated a glass case.  “Skookums!” 
said Silvester. “This company paid housewives to as­
semble the dolls from a kit. Now, none of them look 
the same—look, some are carrying little babies! Ah.” 
She clicked her tongue and tossed her head back, 
like a southern belle swooning at a pleasant thought. 
“They’re my little Navajos.” They were all smiling and 
painted in with permanent side-eye, looking politely 
uncomfortable. Silvester said the right-side glance is a 
sign of good luck.

Next, Silvester took us to the infirmary in the 
back room. When she’s not selling American Girls to 
little children, she’s repairing their parents’ childhood 
companions, or their ancestors’ stately heirloom dolls. 
She runs this part of the business in the middle of her 
kitchen, working from three shelves of convalescent 
doll beds whose occupants have all sorts of gruesome 
injuries. A forties-era baby doll with a smashed-in 
face lay beside twin boudoir dolls from the twenties, 
naked with no eyes. Underneath them, a teddy bear 
hemorrhaged stuffing. “I spend all my time in the doll 
hospital,” Silvester said. “I never cook. Women spend 
too much time in the kitchen, that’s what I think.” 
Customers aren’t generally allowed in the hospital. 
“When little girls see a broken doll, they scream!” she 
explained. “If they see an old doll, they say, ‘ewwww.’”

The doll market is peculiar nowadays. American 
Girls, with their look-like-me appeal and their strange, 
blank uniformity, by far outsell any other eighteen-
inch doll on the market for children. Meanwhile, a 
whole community of doll artists use glass eyes, hu­
man hair, and extremely lifelike molds, creating limit­
ed-release dolls for adult collectors. 

Silvester’s favorite dolls come from one of these 
collections. They’re new, from 2005, designed by the 
German doll artist Annette Himstedt. Himstedt spent a 
year travelling the world and capturing the likenesses 
of the little girls she saw in eerily realistic vinyl. Silves­
ter has ten of them and knows all of their names. “This 
one is Natiti, my little Aborigine,” she said, stroking 
her hair. “And Tawni, she’s another Navajo. She’s my 
favorite.” Tawni’s eyes were deep-set and fuzzy with 
lashes around the edges, so attentively detailed they 
were almost cartoonish. “Those are human prosthetic 
eyes,” Silvester said, then insisted, “They’re real eyes.” 
She walked away from the doll and a little ironi­
cally, a little wistfully, smiled. “I paid one thousand 
a piece for them. Ah, I sometimes kiss them, I love 
them so much.” 

Tawni and her friends stand stepwise on the stair­
well, which is the first display customers see when 
they walk in. About eight people come into Calling 
All Dolls every day. The rest of the time Silvester is 
alone in the store, or her home, which doesn’t start or 
end anywhere distinct. She works constantly. She says 
she’s finally living her dream. Still, wandering around 
Calling All Dolls, it feels less like the realization of a 
long-held vision than a life’s retrospective, Silvester’s 
personal memory palace of dreams and experiences. 
The orthopedic practices turned a doll hospital, the 
antique Dream House an overflowing doll shop, the 
childhood memories resurrected in the staring, age­
less company of the rooms—I wonder how much Sil­
vester works, and how much she just reflects.  

Perhaps the reflection was always the point for 
Silvester. For someone who surrounds herself with 
little-girl-likenesses, she isn’t bursting with affection 
for the real ones. 

“The kids now, they don’t just want dolls. They 
want the Kindles, the iPods, and all the technology,” 
she says. But she relishes the experience her shop 
gives young visitors. “When little girls walk in here, 
they must think it’s a palace. And that’s my reward—
they’re going to remember that the rest of their lives.” 
Given Silvester’s keen sense of objects and memory, 
she’s probably right. Even if some of those enchanted 
little girls will remember accidentally wandering nto 
Silvester’s kitchen, and running out screaming, “Ah! 
What did she do to that doll’s eyes!” 
Ruby Bilger is a freshman in 
Branford College. 
She is an associate editor of 
The New Journal. 


**Title: Expect the Worst**
**Author: Isabelle Taft**
**Page number(s): 21**

21
EXPECT 
THE 
WORST
In an age of false security, 
preppers plan for disaster
By Isabelle Taft 
Illustrations by Ivy Sanders-Schneider



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T
he walls of Nick Provost’s suburban Connecticut 
living room are decorated with a taxidermied 
deer head and a few grandmotherish tchotchkes in 
the colors of the American flag. A flat-screen television 
occupies one corner. Provost’s three blonde daughters, 
ages 9, 8, and 7, chase each other through the room. 
About a dozen people sit around on couches, chairs, 
and stools. 

Nick Provost, a boyish 28-year-old with a warm, 
crooked smile, lies on the floor. A black strap called a 
Hasty Harness is wrapped between his legs, behind 
his back and around his armpits. The people sitting 
in a semicircle around his prone body watch care­
fully as Jason Wyman, a barrel-chested former army 
medic whose beard looks long enough to reach his 
navel, holds the ends of the strap and pulls up. One 
of Wyman’s arms is covered in ornate gothic script 
that reads, “From the gates of hell.” On the other 
arm is printed “To the halls of Valhalla.” Wyman eas­
ily drags Provost’s muscular six-foot frame using the 
lightweight contraption. Provost groans as the straps 
tightens around his upper thighs.
“My primary rule: pain is the patient’s problem,” 
Wyman says. 

The observers had come to learn, from a com­
bat medic, how to care for the victims of countless 
violent scenarios: mall shootings, car accidents, pipe 
bomb explosions, home invasions, urban riots. The 
type of disaster that might require a Hasty Harness 
seemed far away from Provost’s living room on that 
grey Saturday in November. But for the people watch­
ing Provost squirm—members of a Facebook group 
he runs called the Community Rapid Response Team 
(CRRT)—planning for the worst is a way of life. Their 
group is a small part of the vast network of Americans 
interested in disaster preparedness and self-defense. 
The “prepper” lifestyle was made famous by the Na­
tional Geographic show Doomsday Preppers—a love­
child of TLC’s Hoarders and MTV’s Cribs, with the ad­
dition of existential and often politicized dread. But 
many CRRT members, including Provost, reject that 
label, conscious of the stereotype that preppers are 
paranoid, irrational, or crazy. 

“We’re not a militia, we’re not survivalist, we’re 
not preppers,” Provost says. “We go about our normal 
lives and we prepare to take action in bad situations.”

Those “bad situations” run the gamut from a mas­
sive snowstorm to a home invasion. The good news is 
that modernity offers up a host of useful gadgets and 
gizmos, approved by the U.S. military and available for 
purchase online or at particularly well-supplied out­
door equipment stores. With a little ingenuity and a 
bit of cash (the Hasty Harness costs just twenty-five 
dollars), the average American can feel ready to fight 
whatever Mother Nature or a fellow human being 
dishes out. 

A former soldier now supervising shifts at a plant 
that manufactures nuts and bolts, Provost established 
CRRT in the summer of 2014. CRRT became the latest 
addition to a virtual world of disaster preparedness 
and self-sufficiency communities, joining the Con­
necticut Preppers group (“Preparation for when ‘IT’ 
happens!”) and the Connecticut Preppers Network 
page’s 900+ members. The CRRT group now has over 
170 members, twelve of whom paid Wyman fifty 
dollars to attend the medical course. Twenty to thirty 
regularly attend events. 

Jason Wyman, the medical instructor, spent four 
years as a military medic in Iraq. He was there in 2005, 
during the insurgency. When he came home to Maine, 
he brought with him stories of shrapnel-studded or­
gans, jellied brains, exploded limbs, the comrades he 
had saved and those he hadn’t. Now, as an instructor 
at the self-defense training company Muzzle Front, he 
teaches civilians how to do what he did. But instead 
of gearing up for patrol in Fallujah, they’re protecting 
themselves for a trip to the mall. 

The members of the CRRT focus on everyday 
disasters. I spoke with people who use downtime 
at work to browse the web for supplies and devote 
weekends to practicing marksmanship. For others, a 
trip to the grocery store is an occasion to pick up a 
few extra cans of beans to add to their stockpile. One 
man begins his daily commute by checking that the 
bag filled with medical supplies and enough food and 
water for 72 hours is still tucked safely in his car’s back 
seat. They rarely discuss such behavior with outsiders, 
who often dismiss these actions as paranoid. Quietly, 
methodically, they stock the basement shelves. 

Driven in part by nostalgia, members of the CRRT 
ultimately advocate self-sufficiency. They invoke the 
lifestyles of their grandparents to explain why they do 
what they do. Two generations ago, they insist, every 
household in America stocked enough food to last a 
week without power or transportation. Kids learned 
basic survival skills on camping trips, everyone knew 
their neighbors, and journalists told the truth. The 
off-screen, Regular Joe disaster preparedness move­
ment is rooted in the belief that Americans back then 
had less to fear, when the national lifestyle was one 
of communal sufficiency. Their behavior is a response 
to distinctly contemporary events. They’re often vio­
lent, and occasionally horrific: September 11, mass 
shootings, the financial meltdown. Responding to 
these events requires preppers, despite their nostal­
gia for a bygone way of life, to embrace the com­
plex technology and grim outlook that pervade our 
times. I am not surprised, then, that Jason Wyman was 
teaching us how to conduct triage, not how to plant 
victory gardens.  

The group in Provost’s living room reflects the 
demographics of the broader disaster prepared­
ness crowd, estimated at three million Americans 
and growing: mostly male, mostly white, mostly 
middle-aged. 

Wyman’s instruction takes up the better part of 
two hours, during which the audience asks many 
questions. Should you try to remove shrapnel from a 
patient? Where can you buy the equipment to set up 
an IV unit? Can a tampon be used to stop bleeding 
from bullet wounds?

When he finishes covering the material, Wyman 
pulls out a large brown pack and takes out its con­
tents to show everyone what to consider purchasing 
for their own medical equipment kit. 
“This is my fuckin’ murse,” he says. “Got multiple 
kinds of beard lotion because that shit’s important.” 
There are also eye drops, bandages, Ace wrap, gloves, 
a bandage with a plastic closure apparatus, and a large 
holster called a “thigh rig” that allows the wearer to 
strap supplies around their hips and both legs. 

After showing off his equipment, Wyman tells 
us to present our medical emergency kits so he can 
evaluate their strengths and weaknesses. On the couch 
beside me, a middle-aged man in a neat button-down 
shirt sets down the yellow legal pad and pen with 
which he’s been carefully taking notes.
“My kit’s in the car, but I’m not even going to go 
get it,” he says, seeming ashamed of and a little guilty 
about his substandard equipment. 

He introduced himself as Frank. Frank now lives 
in the greater Hartford area and works in real estate, 
but he traces his prepper impulse back to the long 
gasoline lines he witnessed as a 6-year-old in Con­
necticut during the 1973 oil embargo. He learned 
then that basic assumptions of American life could be 
quickly and unpredictably undermined, though he 
didn’t start prepping in earnest until a few years ago. 
He can’t pinpoint a specific event or experience that 
led him to begin stockpiling food, taking self-defense 
classes, and researching humanity’s long history of 
disasters, but he thinks the recession of 2008 made 
the world seem a more fragile place. 

In the scores of credit card-carrying customers at 
the grocery store, Frank sees a contemporary insecu­
rity. What will happen if the power goes out? Or if 
the computer systems that allow cashless transactions 
fail? The everyday technology that makes the modern 
American lifestyle so convenient, so easy, so comfort­
able, Frank says, is particularly vulnerable to attack or 
malfunction. 

Frank can rattle off a cascading list of crises end­
ing at the present: in 1859, a major coronal mass 
ejection—a burst of solar wind that caused electrical 
disturbances on earth; in the nineteen-seventies, the 
gasoline shortages; September 11; Hurricane Katrina; 
the Great Recession; Hurricane Sandy; the blizzard 
Nemo. His primary concerns are natural disasters, fi­
nancial crises, and home invasion. He considers the 
more extreme potentialities only as a kind of enjoy­
able thought experiment on prepper forums and 
Facebook groups. 

 “We’ll discuss what we would do, like if you knew 
an asteroid was coming,” he explains. “Fun stuff.”

Frank is a generalist. Like others I meet, he prides 
himself on not wasting mental energy and resources 
seriously preparing for unlikely events such as the as­
teroid collision. His approach to general preparedness 
is systematic and disciplined. And though many of 
the disasters he fears are caused by modern technol­
ogy, that same technology has enabled him to connect 
with thousands of like-minded individuals to share 
thoughts on preparedness. 

Robert Higgins, one of the CRRT’s most active 
members, owns Muzzle Front, the self-defense train­
ing business where Wyman works. Higgins thinks that 
the actions of American preppers now congregating 
en masse online would have seemed unremarkable a 
generation ago. He believes that contemporary Ameri­
cans embrace convenience more than ever before. As 
American urbanization has continued, camping and 
outdoor activities interest people less than they once 
did. In earlier generations, when people lived farther 
from shopping centers and had stronger memories 
of hardship, they were sturdier. Higgins’s parents 
were born just after the Great Depression, and they 
grew vegetables and canned them for the winter in 
his childhood. Sometime in the nineteen-nineties, he 
realized that such behavior was increasingly unusual.  

 “The more people had easy access to things, the 
less they stored things in their home,” he says. “Fis­
cally that can make sense. Why have anything sitting 
on your shelf when you could go get it at any time 
and still have access to the capital should [a disaster] 
arrive?”




**Title: The Preppers of Connecticut**
**Author: [Author Name not provided]**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
APRIL 2015
25
movement,” Muzzle Front’s website explains. “Better 
to discover it in the dojo, than in some back alley 
with Pookie the Crackhead.”

Some of the people interested in his courses harbor fears that Higgins considers extreme. He doesn’t 
cater to such people, whom he describes as “on the 
brink of paranoia,” but rather to those who have 
what he considers legitimate concerns and reasonable plans to address them. Sitting in Blue State Coffee 
on Wall Street, he tells of his encounters with people 
on the fringe. Higgins once went to a meeting of the 
Connecticut State Militia, a group that prepares to 
fight back in the event of a government attack on the 
American people. Their Facebook group is closed but 
offers a description that includes the emphatic claim 
that “THIS IS AMERICA, NOT RUSSIA, NOT CUBA, 
NOT CHINA AND SURE AS HELL ISNT NAZI GER­
MANY!!!!”

When he arrived, Higgins found a group of people who represented the sect of preppers from which 
he distances himself. 
“I said to them, ‘You look like a bunch of white 
supremacists, you look like you’re ready to attack the 
world, and you look like a bunch of middle-to-old-
aged white guys,’” Higgins says. “I offered to help 
steer them in the right direction, and leadership decided that they didn’t need that help. They were an 
interesting group of individuals.”

As Higgins explains the underground landscape 
of Connecticut’s radicals, a man near us in Blue State 
seems to be tilting his head in to listen. 
“It’s not polite to eavesdrop,” Higgins rebukes him.

I don’t blame the man for listening. I, too, find it 
hard to understand how someone could see America 
on the road to becoming a new Third Reich. 

Higgins views this extremism as a predictable 
outcome of the way we consume news and information today. Dark rumors spread rapidly across computer screens and televisions. When Frank says he believes 
today’s America faces a uniquely volatile economic 
and international relations landscape, referencing the 
crisis in Crimea, quantitative easing, ISIS, and cyber 
attacks, it’s hard to tell if we actually face more threats, 
or if we are simply more aware of them. Perhaps the 
past is appealing because back then we were less cognizant of danger. 


The members of CRRT draw a sharp line between 
themselves and extremists. The CRRT doesn’t obsess 
over government plots like the Connecticut Militia. 
Frank, who owns a pistol for self-defense and a rifle 
for hunting, seems to enjoy preparing for disasters in 
the same way other people enjoy crafting or training 
for triathlons. But when I ask how he spells his last 
name, he hesitates. He worried about giving away too 
many identifying details. 
“We talk about this thing called op-sec, operational security,” he explains. “If something was to hit 
the fan, they would know where to get my supplies.”


Though the Internet plays a crucial role in connecting preparedness-minded Americans, the mission of the CRRT is to build community in person. In 
addition to the medical training class, the group has 
participated in hikes, a cold-weather pistol technique 
class, and overnight camping trips. Provost’s cousin, 
Adam Hummel, believes that what makes CRRT special is its rejection of the isolation instinct that leads 
preppers to hoard knowledge and resources. He recently posted a message encouraging members to 
ask each other for help with spring cleaning projects 
and renovations.

Provost sometimes gets into virtual arguments, 
defending cooperation within families and communities as key to survival. In response to preppers 
who insist that, come the Big One, they will barricade themselves inside their homes with their weapons and stockpiled food, Provost always poses the 
same question:
“What happens when I come burn your 
house down?” he asks.  “You have to come out 
of the house.”

Provost’s disdain for aggressive individualism 
is a far cry from the blunt self-interest prevalent on 
other prepper forums. Alex Kingsbury, a self-described moderate prepper I met on the Connecticut 
forum of the American Prepper Network site, said he 
doubted many people would want to be interviewed 
because they fear compromising their identity, 
location and supplies. 
“I don’t know you, but I think it’s probably pretty unlikely that you’ll show up at my house with a 
gun to steal my beans,” Kingsbury says.

Given their emphasis on amassing supplies and 
equipment, catering to preppers is big business 
across the country. Companies offer everything from 
fairly standard camping supplies to vast quantities 
of dehydrated food to ready-to-use nuclear bunkers.
“There’s a whole industry out there,” Hummel says.

Hummel, who serves as the group’s IT specialist, 
established a program on Amazon that allows equipment vendors to sell their products to his members at discounted prices. Sitting at his office desk, 
he pulls up the group’s Amazon page and lists off 
items members have bought: water bottle holders, 
fishing kits, emergency blankets, and a physician’s 
desk reference. 

Within this community, as in many American 
communities, the act of consumption bonds people together. The CRRT members in Provost’s living 
room ooh and aah at the disaster gear Wyman shows 
off the way I imagine Greenwich matriarchs admire 
expensive clothing at trunk shows. 

Some companies marketed to preppers focus 
on a particular genre of disaster. Based in Gonzales, 
Texas, a company called Ki4u.com sells items to help 
people survive nuclear disaster. An $815 “Radiation 
“WE’RE NOT A MILITIA, WE’RE 
NOT SURVIVALIST, WE’RE NOT 
PREPPERS. WE GO ABOUT 
OUR NORMAL LIVES AND WE 
PREPARE TO TAKE ACTION IN 
BAD SITUATIONS.”  
— NICK PROVOST


26

27
Safety Combo Package” includes radiation detection 
devices, KI tablets and facemasks to minimize contamination, as well as several books and pamphlets 
produced by the company. One is entitled “The Good 
News About Nuclear Destruction!” 

Other companies profit by selling “situational awareness,” according to Stephen Austakalnis, who founded 
AlertsUSA in the aftermath of September 11 to help people access immediate information about threats emanating from all over the globe. His team of six spends all 
day monitoring news outlets around the world. When 
they notice a potentially troubling development—say, the 
murder of a Mexican politician by a drug cartel or an announcement that American troops will be sent to battle 
Ebola in West Africa—they send an alert to twenty thousand subscribers. The subscription is ninety-nine dollars 
per year.

The American Preppers Network offers users the opportunity to become “Gold Members.” For sixty dollars 
annually, the Gold Member gains access to an exclusive 
newsletter, special discounts at shops that offer survival 
food and supplies, and a private Facebook page to connect with others similarly dedicated to surviving disaster. 
For five hundred dollars, one can obtain “Platinum Lifetime Membership” and receive these benefits for life.

In Connecticut, the Old Saybrook storefront of 
Harris Outdoors began as an Amazon vendor account. 
Bob Harris, the owner, bought and resold outdoor 
supplies he considered high quality, and soon local 
customers were filling his driveway, eager to pick up 
equipment instead of paying for shipping. Now, he 
does almost all his sales out of the shop he opened 
three years ago and recently doubled in size. He sees 
about twenty to thirty customers a week, estimating 
that at least half are preppers.
“Our more reliable customers seem to be a fairly 
tight-knit community,” Harris tells me over the phone. 
“As far as our success story, the biggest thing has been 
word of mouth.”

Harris considers himself a “common-sense prepper.” He stocks his home with extra food and practices 
his outdoor survival skills through backpacking trips. 



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Isabelle Taft**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When I visit his shop in March, the inside looks simi­
lar to an REI. There are sleeping bags, water filtration 
devices, shoes, backpacks, and first aid kits. A couple 
spends at least half an hour chatting with Harris about 
his collection of duck decoys, set up in the back cor­ner of the store. 


Harris admits there is a good deal of overlap be­
tween backpackers and preppers, and it can be hard 
to tell them apart based on their purchases. Many 
outdoor enthusiasts read the shop’s slogan, “Pre­
pared for every adventure,” and don’t recognize the 
range of meanings the words “prepared” and “ad­
venture” can assume. Talking to Frank, Higgins, and 
others, I get the impression that they might relish 
a shit-hits-the-fan moment as a kind of adventure, 
maybe even as an opportunity for heroism. But they 
still bear little resemblance to the Doomsday Prep­
pers who are morbidly convinced of imminent de­
struction. I ask Harris what he thinks about the show 
and its depiction of excessive consumption of niche 
products as the route to salvation. He says the people 
on Doomsday Preppers just aren’t very good at prep­
ping.
“Honestly, I think they’re stupid to be on that 
show, because they’re disclosing all the things you 
shouldn’t be disclosing,” he says, referencing their 
exhibition of their bunkers, food supplies, and back­
up generators, now vulnerable to attack or theft. 
“They sold themselves to the devil.”


Harris’s response to Doomsday Preppers points to 
the eventual limits of some preppers’ desire to help 
one another in crisis situations. A certain degree of 
secrecy is crucial to survive in a world of scarcity 
and competition. Even when the catastrophic event 
is a natural disaster, the use of physical force against 
other people must be on the table. As Frank puts it, 
New Orleans descended into anarchy within a few 
days of Hurricane Katrina. Stockpiled food is only as 
good as your ability to defend it. No one at the medi­
cal training class mentioned it, but the hotdogs and 
potato chips in Provost’s kitchen were secure; after 
one woman had to remove her pistol holster to try 
on Wyman’s thigh rig, I looked around the room and 
realized nearly every adult was carrying a weapon.


At Wyman’s course, someone’s box of bul­
lets spills over a coffee table in the Provosts’ living 
room. One of Provost’s daughters wanders through. 
She leans over the coffee table and rolls the bullets 
under her tiny fingers. Their cold metal casing slides 
across the wooden surface. The potential for violence 
is omnipresent, even casual, but there’s not much dis­
cussion about how to take down the gunman or the 
home invader. The class is all about what to do once 
the fighting stops. 


Because self-defense seems to be a crucial com­
ponent of prepping, I wanted to talk with people as 
they actively work on their ability to fight. In Febru­
ary, I learned from the CRRT Facebook group about a 
course taking place one weekend at King 33, a “public 
safety training” center in Southington. The class was 
a two-day home-defense course taught by a special 
forces veteran named Larry Vickers. Participants would 
learn how to use firearms to defend their homes and 
businesses from attack. Topics to be covered included 
“weapons manipulation, movement and approaches, 
room entry and domination, family member rescues, 
safe room set-up and defense, low light encounters, 
surgical shooting exercises, etc.” The course cost six 
hundred dollars. There would be actual shooting.  


The King 33 facility is located off Highway 84 
in a complex of former warehouses. King 33’s door 
is tiny, unremarkable relative to the enormous ware­
house behind it. At least fifty cars sprawl across the 
parking lot, bearing license plates from Pennsylvania, 
New York, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Delaware. 
I step inside a small foyer with a television, a 
few chairs, and a desk with a nearly emptied box of 
Dunkin’ Donuts doughnut holes. A man and woman 
who look to be in their 70s stand up from the desk. 
They are Pat and John Michaels, friends of King 33’s 
owner Chris Fields, a special operations veteran. The 
couple greets me with expressions first of concern, 
because the door is opening twenty minutes late, and 
then confusion. I don’t look like their typical client. 
After I explain that I’d like to meet participants in the 
course, John leaves through a door across the room to 
search for someone to ask about my request, leaving 
Pat and me to chat. A television is set to Fox News. On 
screen, a boat is being pummeled by violent waves 
somewhere in the Atlantic, waiting for rescue.


Pat tells me about the courses King 33 offers: pis­
tol safety, marksmanship, self-defense, women-only 
self-defense, and a slew of courses designed for law 
enforcement personnel.  The self-defense classes don’t 
require participants to use firearms, she says. “You 
should take it. Especially living in New Haven.”


After a few minutes, John Michaels returns and 
leads me through the other door into a much larger 
space—so large a car is parked inside. John explains 
that students use the car to practice defending them­
selves from an attacker waiting for shoppers incapaci­
tated by their bounteous purchases.


A higher-up comes in and apologizes: the course 
isn’t run by King 33 but by Larry Vickers, so they can’t 
give me permission to go inside the training facility or 
meet participants. 
“They’re good people, but they’re private people,” 
Michaels says. 


Besides, it’s a live-fire course with bullets that can 
draw blood, and I don’t have proper protective gear. 
IT’S IMPORTANT THAT 
PARTICIPANTS FEEL A REAL 
SENSE OF DANGER AND 
POTENTIAL PAIN, BECAUSE 
OTHERWISE THE EXPERIENCE 
WON’T MIMIC REAL LIFE, 
WHEN THE MAN TRYING 
TO HOLD YOU HOSTAGE IN 
YOUR OWN HOME WON’T BE 
SHOOTING RUBBER BULLETS.


I say goodbye to John and Pat and walk back out 
into the snow, past the dozens of cars, empty storage 
units and a rusting water tower. I start walking down 
the road, trudging away from King 33. I’ve only gone 
a few hundred feet before a car pulls up beside me and 
the driver rolls down her window. She smiles at me 
and asks if I need a ride. I tell her no, thank you. 
“Are you sure?” she nods her head at the toddler 
in the back seat. “We’re just headed up the road to 
Stop and Shop. It’s no trouble.”
That’s all right, I say. 
“Oh, are you staying at the park?” she gestures be­
hind her. I turn and look down the long, empty road, 
which must stretch onward to a place where young 
people camp even in the winter. It strikes me that she 
is probably not aware that close by, dozens of people 
are running around a warehouse in bulletproof vests, 
shooting at each other, diligently preparing to protect 
their families. She does not realize the risk she takes 
in driving through the snow without an emergency 
supply of food and medicine. She’s not thinking about 
how vulnerable she makes herself simply by living 
in America today—talking to strangers, paying for 
her groceries with a credit card, trusting that it will 
all be O.K.


I think about Frank, who seems as typical as the 
woman now offering me a ride. He told me, at the 
end of the medical disaster class, “You just never know 
what’s going to happen.”


He’s right, of course. The woman and her child 
drive away to the Stop and Shop, where the fluorescent 
lights are always bright, the number of cereal brands 
dazzles, and the imported vegetables shine. I keep 
walking through the snow. 
Isabelle Taft is a sophomore in 
Silliman College. 

She is the managing editor of 
The New Journal.




**Title: The Uncertain Hour**
**Author: Edward Columbia**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Standing at the threshold of society, 
newly released inmates plan their next steps
Story and photos by Edward Columbia


Hudson Street, just off of Whalley Avenue, looks 
like any other street after a hard winter. The as­
phalt is pocked with fresh potholes, the sidewalks 
cracked from months of ice. Debris litters the edg­
es of the road—stray tires, plastic bottles, scraps of 
clothing, a discarded pair of shoes. The shoes look like 
black-and-white low-top Converse, but their rubber 
soles are thinner and flimsier, and the ripped canvas 
bears no insignia. They are state-issued prison sneak­
ers, given to inmates by the Department of Correction

On one side of the street is a row of houses with 
small front yards; on the other is a row of cellblocks 
behind barbed wire. This is the New Haven Com­
munity Correctional Center, commonly known as 
Whalley Jail. 
Roughly eighty male prisoners are released each 
month at the jail’s back gate on Hudson Street. On 
average, twenty-five of these men are released directly 
from the county jail. The rest are dropped there from 
prisons all over Connecticut. They walk out in the ear­
ly morning hours, quietly and inconspicuously.

At around 6:30 a.m., a white minibus with gold 
and blue trim pulls into the gate’s entryway. A cor­
rectional officer sits in the driver’s seat holding a clip­
board. The passenger windows are tinted and rein­
forced with metal mesh. The gate slides open, and the 
bus drives through. After a moment, the gate closes. 
The officer walks into the building and returns 
a few minutes later. He opens the door of the bus, 
and three men file out. They wear DOC-issued cloth­
ing—long-sleeved white shirts and loose white or tan 
pants. Each man’s wrists are bound by metal cuffs that 
connect to a chain around his waist. They rattle as they 
walk through the sally port, the controlled release area 
at the back of Whalley Jail.

At 7:00 a.m., the three men reemerge. The cuffs 
are gone. In place of prison tans, one man now wears 
a pair of blue jeans. Another wears a checkered flannel 
shirt. Each man holds a brown paper bag full of his 
possessions. 

They stand behind the gate, waiting for it to open. 
The man in the middle bounces up and down. 
“I fuckin’ hate this place,” he says, as much to 
himself as to the two men beside him, who nod in 
agreement. 

The gate begins to open. As soon as it slides wide 
enough to fit through, the three men rush out onto 
the sidewalk, smiling. Two of them take a left out of 
the gate and begin walking toward Whalley Avenue. 
“You got any smokes?” one man asks me as he 
passes by. 
“Nah man, sorry.”

The third man, still in full prison clothes, turns 
right out of the gate. He is practically running, but he 
stops when he sees the pair of shoes on the sidewalk. 
“Somebody left they skippies,” he says, laughing. 
He pauses, then continues down the street. He rounds 
the corner. Only moments have passed since the gate 
opened, and already all three men have disappeared 
from view. But where are they going?

An inmate in the Connecticut DOC can ar­
range to be picked up at the end of his sentence 
from the facility where he has served his time. 
He also has the option of requesting DOC transport to 
one of four drop-off sites: Middletown Courthouse, 
Hartford Courthouse, Bridgeport Correctional Cen­
ter, or New Haven Correctional Center. If there is no 
one to pick him up from the drop-off site he chooses, 
the DOC provides a 90-minute bus pass upon release. 
Men who choose to be dropped off at Whalley Jail 
typically return to New Haven or to a nearby town. 
The same is true for women, who are let out near the 
police department headquarters on Union Avenue. 

I went to Whalley Jail each morning for two 
weeks to meet men as they were released. Even those 
who had been incarcerated for a short time—less 
than a year—spoke of the anxiety of reintegration and 
the uncertainty of what lay ahead. After a long pe­
riod of living under prison conditions, the first steps 
back into society can be overwhelming. The world 
they return to is neither fully prepared nor totally 
willing to support men coming out of prison. Em­
ployment is hard to come by, especially while many 
ex-offenders grapple with housing instability or 
chronic health problems. Returning to high-risk areas 
can trigger relapse, into substance abuse or crime. 

A 2008 study by the Connecticut Department 
of Corrections found that forty-seven percent of ex-
offenders return to prison within two years of re­
lease, twenty-one percent within the first six months. 
Yet many New Haven residents regard ex-offenders 
as a threat, rather than a population in need. Sev­
eral years ago, the local community protested the 
release of the men directly onto the busy thorough­
fare of Whalley Avenue. For that reason, they now 
walk onto sleepy Hudson Street, out of sight and 
out of mind.


“YOU’RE NOT FREE WHEN YOU 
GET OUTTA JAIL.” — PAUL



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I follow the two men who turned left out of the 
gate. I find them sitting in a booth at the McDonald’s 
across Whalley Avenue.
“How you guys doing?” I ask
“Doin’ good man.”
“Better than yesterday.”
The man in blue jeans who asked me for ciga­
rettes outside the jail gate tells me his name is Steven. 
The correctional officer at the sally port gave him the 
jeans, left behind by another inmate. He wears them 
in place of the tans he arrived in. His off-white, long-
sleeved T-shirt and white sneakers are his from before 
his stint inside. 
His salt-and-pepper hair is buzz cut, and his 
clean-shaven cheeks are nicked with small scars. He 
has a wheezy laugh and a wry smile that curls up on 
one side of his mouth. He is 49 years old.
Paul, the other man, is muscular, with a hand­
some, chiseled face and short brown hair. He takes 
off his checkered flannel shirt (also given to him at 
the sally port) to reveal a blue Catholic cross tattooed 
along the side of his right bicep. He is 34. He wears 
black-and-white canvas “skippies,” like the ones left 
on the sidewalk, and he tells me his feet are still freez­
ing from the cold walk.
Paul picks up the flannel shirt and walks over to a 
table where an old man in a raggedy winter jacket sits 
watching television. He drapes the shirt over the back 
of the man’s chair and comes back to our booth. 
“He needs it more than I do,” Paul says, gestur­
ing with his thumb to the man, who has put the shirt 
on his lap. 
“Damn straight,” Steven replies.
Paul pulls on a gray sweatshirt with “NHCC” writ­
ten under the collar in black block letters. He hunches 
over, his elbows on the table. He drums his fingers and 
taps his feet, before opening up his crinkled brown 
bag. Paul spreads some of the letters, notebooks, pa­
perwork, and pamphlets he collected while in prison 
out on the table. He fiddles with a folder labeled “Re­
entry and Transitions.” Steven sets his bag on the table 
but leaves it rolled up.
Steven has just done eight months in the Cor­
rigan-Radgowski Correctional Center, a combined 
level three and four high-security prison in Uncas­
ville, where he served time for a domestic violence 
charge after he threatened his wife—in his case, a 
Class A misdemeanor. He was originally sentenced to 
nine months, but he was released one month early for 
good behavior. He now has two years of probation. 
Paul was charged with domestic violence for 
threatening his ex-girlfriend. He spent three months 
of his six-month sentence in Radgowski before trans­
ferring to a lower-security section of Niantic Annex, 
where he completed his time. He, too, will be on pro­
bation for two years.
Neither of the men is from New Haven, but they 
chose to be dropped off at Whalley Jail because it 
is the facility closest to their homes. Steven is from 
Meriden, Paul from Northford. Steven’s sister should 
arrive at 8:30 a.m., so he has an hour-and-a-half to 
kill. Paul uses my phone to call his girlfriend, due to 
arrive any minute. 
“It always feels weird to be coming outta there 
into society,” Steven says. “We don’t even got normal 
clothes to wear, so people can spot us easy and tell 
where we come from. Feels like people are looking at 
us like we’re crazy. But really they don’t know.”
He smiles and looks at me as though I and every­
one else in the McDonald’s are missing an inside joke. 
Steven has spent fifteen years of his life behind bars 
for various charges. He was out for four years before 
his most recent bid. When I ask him how it feels to be 
out this time, he shrugs.
“When you’re outta society for so long it just 
seems like a different world. I mean, I’m just dying to 
see a twenty-dollar bill. Just the simplest things in life 
are big right now,” he says.
The men speak with bitterness about the prison 
conditions they just left, focusing on the difficulty of 
living without privacy. 
“Niantic Annex is a fuckin’ nightmare. It’s level 
two security, so you think it’s supposed to be better, 
but it’s fuckin’ terrible,” Paul says. 
He tells me that sixty men slept in the bunks on 
either side of him. 
“They’d roll over in their sleep and knock me 
in the head,” he continues. “There’s nowhere to go. 
You’re trapped in this little room with no air. You ei­
ther sit on your bunk or you sit next to your bunk. 
For months. There’s no movement. You’re depressed 
’cause you can’t even walk.”
The men focus on the small details of daily life: 
the uncomfortable sleep, the cold food, the placement 
of the toilets.
“I was in a room with fourteen people,” Steven 
says of the Corrigan-Radgowski Correctional Center. 
“Living shoulder to shoulder. All of us using one bath­
room. They don’t give you no supplies neither. When 
you get in they give you a little piece of soap”—he 
measures a two-inch bar of soap with his fingers—
“and the state deodorant, which is like water. When 
you go to the counselor to ask for something, they say 
they don’t have nothing. Tell you to bum it off of one 
of the other inmates.”
Steven tells me there is no hot water allowed in 
the cells, as hot water can be used as a weapon. To 
heat food from the commissary, inmates improvise 
by making a “stinger.” You take an extension cord 
and cut it open with a pair of nail-clippers, he ex­
plains. You pull out the exposed wires, the neutral and 
the hot, and put a plastic spoon between them. The 
wires can’t touch. You wrap a scrap of metal around 
the spoon and wires, stick the end in a tub of water, 
and plug in the cord. It’s essentially a dead short cir­
cuit. Then you wrap your food in a garbage bag and 
put it in to warm.
Steven and Paul agree, though, that in many ways 
reentry is much more intimidating than prison. 
“When we come out, it’s not over,” Steven says. 


“This is the bad part. Jail’s easy. Inside you got no re­
sponsibility. You get up, you eat, you shit, you take a 
shower, you go back to sleep. They tell you when to 
do everything. This is the real life out here. You gotta 
figure out which way to turn.”
Paul nods in agreement. The six-month sentence 
that ended today has been his only time served since a 
five-year stint after he left the Navy in 2002. He shifts 
in his seat and fidgets with his belongings. Whenever 
a car pulls into the parking lot, he hoists himself up 
to peer through the window, asking, “Is that my girl?” 
Joseph Roach, who works as a counselor at Whal­
ley Jail, says that the DOC cannot control the circum­
stances before or after an inmate’s sentence. A soft-
spoken, middle-aged man with round-framed glasses, 
Roach tells me they can only help an inmate while he 
is incarcerated.   
“If you don’t take the time to take advantage of 
[what’s offered] until the last minute desperation, 
you’re gonna struggle. And then you’ll say it was the 
system that messed you up,” he says.  
But there is sometimes a disconnect between the 
perceptions of prison staff and inmates who believe 
the system is set up solely to punish them. Both Steve 
and Paul enrolled in reentry classes to improve their 
chances of getting out on parole, but both were de­
nied. Steven is convinced that the DOC offers the 
classes only to receive funding from the state and 
federal governments. He says his instructor did not 
care whether the inmates participated, only that they 
showed up. Paul relates a similar experience. 
“The classes they offer are ridiculous,” Paul says, 
shaking his head. “It’s a scam. The whole thing in 
there is money.”
Paul says he wrote to the counselor supervisor 
and the reentry counselor at Radgowski asking for 
help finding reentry programs and employment op­
tions after release. In the McDonald’s, he flattens two 
formal request sheets, one for each counselor, out on 
the table and points to their responses under his notes. 
One told him to consult with his probation officer 
after getting out, and the other said that what Paul 
asked for was not under the counselor’s authority. 
It is difficult to ascribe blame in a situation like 
Paul’s without full knowledge of the facts. Just as there 
are prisoners who do not make the effort to engage 
with resources, there are counselors who do not care 
and simply go through the motions of their job. The 
real issue emerges when jaded prisoners stop seeking 
out resources and stumble along without support. 
Paul reaches into his paper bag and pulls 
out a laminated rectangular card, which reads 
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS: DISCHARGE 
RESOURCE CARD.
“They give you this and basically tell you to kick 
rocks,” he says dismissively. “A list of shelters. I’m not 
going to a shelter.”
WHILE SOME PROGRAMS SEND 
REPRESENTATIVES TO SPEAK 
WITH INMATES AND INITIATE 
PERSONALIZED PLANS WITH 
CLIENTS BEFORE RELEASE, MOST 
RELY ON WORD OF MOUTH TO 
DRAW EX-OFFENDERS TO 
THEIR OFFICES. 

I look at the card. It isn’t a list of shelters. It’s a 
list of phone numbers that access a general reen­
try assistance line, housing authority, The Salva­
tion Army, low-income adult medical benefits, food 
stamps, the employment-assistance organization, and 
childcare services. 
New Haven’s city government works to keep 
the formerly incarcerated informed about all avail­
able resources. Project Fresh Start, a reentry service 
the mayor’s office launched in January, assists anyone 
with a criminal record. The program serves as a bridge 
between ex-offenders and specialized resources: so­
ber houses, job training, mental health care provid­
ers, adult education centers, health clinics, the hous­
ing authority, and more. Chance Jackson, one of the 
program’s coordinators, tells me Project Fresh Start 
should be a “mecca” for ex-offenders, with ties to ev­
ery reentry resource in New Haven. 
Around 260 people walk into Project Fresh Start’s 
office at City Hall each month, but lack of awareness 
persists in the larger ex-offender community. Every 
reentry service I spoke to, from Project Fresh Start to 
CT Works to Project MORE (an ex-offender reintegra­
tion organization) to Transitions Clinic—a free health 
clinic for ex-offenders with chronic ailments—told 
me there needs to be more outreach before release, so 
that men in prison have a sense of what options await 
them when they get out and can prepare accordingly. 
While some programs send representatives to 
speak with inmates and initiate personalized plans 
with clients before release, most rely on word of 
mouth to draw ex-offenders to their offices. Jack­
son explained that he often meets people who have 
been out of prison for months and have strug­
gled on the streets before finally connecting with 
Project Fresh Start. 
Jerry Smart, a community health worker at Transi­
tions Clinic, which aims to serve the roughly eighty 
percent of ex-offenders who come out of prison deal­
ing with chronic illness, put it plainly:
“I’d like to see us connect with prisoners at least 
three to six months prior to their coming home, to 
build a rapport with them and come up with an ac­
tion plan,” Smart said. “If you’ve got this dream of 
getting a job and house, and you don’t have no skills 
and no résumé and basically no contacts, how you 
gonna make that work without a support system?” 
Ryan, another ex-offender, had just completed a 
nine-month sentence when we met on the morning 
of his release. He was in an intensive drug rehabilita­
tion program at Carl Robinson Correctional Institu­
tion in Enfield, where he said he spent his days fill­
ing notebooks with plans for the future. He had been 
incarcerated twice for violating his probation through 
drug use, but was determined to stay clean through 
Alcoholics Anonymous and Narcotics Anonymous 
meetings. His past incarcerations caused two “false 
starts” with community college, but he planned to en­
roll in Middlesex Community College in Middletown 
as soon as possible. 
“People who get out of jail and say, ‘I don’t know 
what to do or where to go,’ they just didn’t try,” Ryan 
tells me. “Some people do fall through the cracks, and 
sometimes it’s on the DOC, but if you put in a little bit 
of work, they’re gonna help you out.” 
Paul’s and Steven’s greatest advantage, even if they 
deny the help of nonprofits, is that they have families 
waiting for them. The support of relatives can ease the 
transition back to the rhythms of daily life.



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
APRIL 2015
37
Steven’s sister helped him develop a clear plan for 
the coming days. She is going to pick him up, and she 
has an apartment ready for him back in Meriden, as 
long as he can get a job and pay rent. He’s planning to 
go back to tree removal, his old line of work.

“Without her, I’d have to go to a shelter,” he says. 
“I wouldn’t even be here right now. I’d be walking 
down Whalley Avenue blind, not knowing where I’m 
gonna pick up a dollar bill.”  

But negotiating family relationships can also 
be fraught with difficulty. Steven tells me his big­
gest concern is reconnecting with his wife of fifteen 
years, with whom he has two sons. She has a protec­
tive order against him and did not write him during 
his sentence. 

Easter weekend is coming up, and Steven believes 
that his wife will contact him when he returns to Me­
riden. “I want to be with my wife and kids for the 
holiday, eating ham,” he says. “But I’m on thin ice.”

Because of the protective order, any reports of 
abusive or threatening behavior on his part will like­
ly be a violation of Steven’s probation, which could 
send him back to prison for up to three-and-a-half 
years. This is a common problem for ex-offenders 
with histories of abuse. William “June Boy” Out­
law, a community advocate at Easter Seals Goodwill 
Reentry, a New Haven program that serves high- to 
moderate-risk ex-offenders in New Haven, explains 
to me that a record of domestic violence raises an 
immediate red flag.

	
“If I see domestic violence on a client’s re­
cord I wanna get into that,” Outlaw tells me. “I wanna 
know do he intend to reconcile the dispute. Because 
those never reconcile. The woman he was with knows 
the button to put him back in jail. She can call the 
police and say your name”—he snaps his fingers—
“and that’s it. If you don’t go back, you take your­
self out of that high-risk situation, which is usually 
better for everybody.”

Paul tells Steven he should cut ties altogether. 
That is what Paul has decided to do with his ex-
girlfriend, with whom he has three-year-old twins. 
His only tie to her now is the child support he owes.

“You’re not free when you get outta jail,” Paul 
says. “I owe four grand and counting in child sup­
port. I gotta go to probation meetings and domestic 
violence classes. I gotta get a job.”

Paul clenches his hands together and grits his 
teeth. He has none of Steven’s coolness, perhaps be­
cause he has been in and out of prison less often than 
the older man. 

“I got anxiety bad,” he says. “I been planning this 
shit for two months and I don’t know what the fuck 
to do with myself. My heart’s racing, man.”

Steven laughs. Paul doesn’t. 

Paul’s biggest concern is that he won’t be able to 
land a job. He is required to attend a domestic vio­
lence class once a week and meet with his probation 
officer three times a month, which he believes could 
make him miss work seven times a month. He does 
not know how he will afford child support.  

Paul stands up from the McDonald’s booth and 
looks out the window. The woman who is picking 
him up has pulled into the parking lot. He sits back 
down and repacks his bag. 

“I’m shittin’ my pants, man,” Paul says to Steven 
and me. “I’m thinking of leaving the state. I wanna 
go to New Mexico. I been there once. It’s beautiful.”

Going to New Mexico without permission would 
be a violation of Paul’s probation, which could lead to 
a five-year prison sentence. 

Steven chuckles as Paul walks to the door to meet 
a young woman, whom he greets with a “My girl!” 
They embrace, and Paul follows the woman to her car. 

A man walks over to where Steven and I are sit­
ting and offers him a cigarette. Steven takes it. He bor­
rows the man’s lighter to walk outside and smoke. 

Steven hasn’t had a cigarette in eight months. He 
takes a slow drag and blows smoke toward Whalley 
Jail across the avenue. 

He remains calm as he speaks of reentry, though 
he cannot know exactly where he’s headed. “It’s scary 
when you come out,” he says. “You feel like you lost 
everything. There’s obstacles, but I think positive. You 
can’t let things overwhelm you. That kid, he was get­
ting overwhelmed. You just gotta wait it out. Like my 
mother always said, ‘You don’t get things overnight, 
and when you do you don’t appreciate them.’ When I 
get something I wanna appreciate it.”

I thank Steven for speaking with me. He nods. 
I leave him standing outside the McDonald’s. The 
morning is still cold and raw. He cups the cigarette in 
the palm of his hand, out of the wind. 

Edward Columbia is a freshman in 
Morse College.



**Title: Listening to Africa**
**Author: Coryna Ogunseitan**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

THE NEW JOURNAL
38
critical angle
LISTENING TO AFRICA
Behind the scenes of Yale’s first Africa Salon
E
arly on a Saturday morning in March, I found 
myself surrounded by African artists, speakers, 
and performers in the basement of the Afro-Ameri­
can Cultural Center. We ate Egyptian salad and South 
African banana bread for breakfast, and we didn’t 
talk much. I assumed that the others were nervous, 
like me, and thinking over what they were going 
to say. We were preparing to participate in the Af­
rica Salon, billed as “Yale’s first-ever contemporary 
African arts fest.” 

A month or so before the event, I’d received an 
email from Ifeanyi Awachie, a Woodbridge Fellow 
with the Yale Africa Initiative and the organizer of the 
Salon. She asked me to perform a poem I’d written 
about visiting my father’s country, Nigeria, for the 
first time as a child. I felt nervous when I saw that the 
program listed me as a “Yale artist to watch”: an Afri­
can audience could disagree with my experience, or 
assume that I, an American citizen, was too unfamiliar 
with the continent to voice my opinion. A first-gen­
eration Nigerian American, Awachie assured me that 
my transnational viewpoint was valuable to the Salon, 
which aimed to expose audiences to the perspectives 
of Africans from all over the diaspora.  

Africa Salon is a much-needed step forward in 
Yale’s Africa Initiative, which formed in response to 
President Salovey’s statement in his inaugural address 
to have “a greater focus on Africa.” Awachie became 
involved with the Africa Initiative because she wanted 
the University’s new concentration to be “something 
with soul and content, not an institutional gimmick.” 

Too often, the continent is thought of as static, in 
need of development and with few contributions for 
the Western world. The Salon provided an important 
counterpart to this perspective, exposing the Yale 
community to contemporary art that few Yalies were 
likely to recognize. Visiting artists from Ghana, Nige­
ria, Kenya, South Africa, and the U.S. discussed their 
work—literature, visual arts, and music—alongside 
Yale’s a cappella group Asempa!, the dance group Dza­
na, and African student photographers and writers.

The Salon added to an ongoing conversation 
among African students at Yale. Comprising just over 
one percent of Yale’s student population, many feel 
like they are forced to become the sole voice and im­
age of the continent’s many countries. Opelo Matome, 
a freshman from Botswana, said that in classes, “I’m 
called upon to speak as an African student—not repre­
sentative of just my country, but the whole continent.” 

But the visitors at the Africa Salon could all comment 
on their complicated relationship with the West, add­
ing nuance to the conversation.

At times, debate turned into disagreement: when 
Nigerian journalist Adaobi Tricia Nwaubani asserted 
that African authors had to publish off the continent 
in order to be really successful, Nigerian publisher 
Bibi Bakare-Yusuf arched her eyebrows. She glanced 
at the audience, inviting them to share in her shock 
and disbelief. When Bakare-Yusuf finally spoke, she 
pushed back against misconceptions. She addressed 
three points neatly and rapidly: yes, African publish­
ers were capable of producing manuscripts without 
typos, yes, there was literary work emerging outside 
of the U.S. and Europe, and no, she did not consider 
herself to be an idealist. This connected to the Salon’s 
project to “rebrand Africa,” as Awachie said, by pre­
senting African art to Americans not because the art­
ists needed Western validation, but because Americans 
need to be better informed.

Nodumo Ncomazi, a Zimbabwean sophomore 
who sat behind me, periodically snapped her fingers 
to indicate agreement with the panelists, or groaned 
loudly to voice her dissent. Later, Nodumo told me 
that she felt that as an African student, she was con­
stantly observing white American culture. At the 
Salon, she felt that she was finally being observed, 
her culture considered valuable enough to warrant 
outsiders’ attention. 

But how can the students at Yale carry on the 
discussions started at Africa Salon? Yale has created 
the Young African Scholars Program to recruit more 
African students, since they now make up only one 
percent of the student body. YYAS prioritizes teaching 
in remote areas of the continent, free of charge. The 
program’s project manager, Helinna Ayalew, networks 
with Yale affiliates in Africa to ensure that students 
from low-income areas hear about the program, al­
lowing for a more diverse population of international 
students at Yale. Ayalew, who received her doctorate 
in African Studies last year, helped organize the first 
YYAS program in her home country of Ethiopia in the 
summer of 2014. “There are so many students who 
would be great at a school like this, but who have no 
idea how to begin the application process,” she said. 
“Going to college in the U.S. would be like going to 
the moon.”  

Rachel Adams, Yale’s associate director for Africa, 
lauds YYAS as one of the most effective steps Yale has 
taken in outreach to Africa. As a native of Zimbabwe 
who did not attend a privileged school, she uses her 
personal network to help recruit students. She’s proud 
of the progress the Africa Initiative has made—the 
class of 2018 has the highest enrollment of African 
international students to date. 

But the Africa Salon showed that even a few stu­
dents can start a conversation. At the concert, the 
manager of a musical guest called Awachie onstage, 
presented her with a Maasai cloth—a bright, striped 
purple blanket—and tied it around her shoulders. 
“Every superwoman needs a super cape,” the manager 
said. Awachie replied with modest relief: “It’s like it 
was another version of me that did all this,” she said. 

I delivered my piece, forgot a couple of insignifi­
cant lines and stuttered once. The audience applauded 
politely. I was still unsure whether I deserved to be at 
an event celebrating contemporary Africa and all its 
complexities. Admittedly, I’ve only been to the conti­
nent four times. I worried that I sounded naïve and, 
by depicting Nigeria through a child’s eyes, roman­
ticized it in some way. I wrote about hearing Yoruba 
for the first time and thinking it was a song-language. 
But the poem was a sincere account of my experience:

Later my cousins will interlace their fingers 
with mine and compare, saying
Chocolate and cinnamon 
Copper and coconut shell 
Even though I have grown dark here
and I can walk with my father and no one asks him
where he got me—
this is not my home but I know that it is his
I hear him speak this tonal language and his tongue 
does not twist around last 
names, has no lilt, does not curl back on itself when it
knows it has mispronounced 
and betrayed its employer 
and for the first time his speech hides nothing.

My Nigerian friend Fadeke and I talked after the 
Salon, and we decided we were considering African 
art the same way some people consider charity: if 
it’s not on your mind at least some of the time, it 
should weigh on your conscience. We felt guilty for 
not thinking of these African conversations more of­
ten. To comfort each other, we said: it’s not all serious. 
African students, myself included, so often complain 
about Yale parties—no one dances! Why isn’t anyone 
dancing? But Battell Chapel was nearly full when the 
Kenyan funk group Just a Band came onstage, and 
during the performance of U.S.-South African rapper 
Jean Grae, most of the audience went to the front of 
the concert hall to dance. Here, at Yale, they gave us 
clips of so many sounds that are missing, so many 
voices that are waiting to be heard.

Coryna Ogunseitan is a sophomore 
in Trumbull College.  



**Title:  The Unexpected Joys of Urban Foraging**
**Author:  Amelia Hernandez**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The city, a concrete jungle, often seems devoid of nature. Yet, beneath the towering skyscrapers and bustling streets lies a hidden bounty: edible plants. Urban foraging, the practice of gathering wild food in urban environments, offers a unique connection to nature and a surprising culinary adventure.  From the ubiquitous dandelion to the less-known mulberry, many edible plants thrive in unexpected places.


However, caution is key.  Identifying plants correctly is crucial, as some look-alikes can be toxic.  Beginners should join guided foraging walks or consult reliable field guides before venturing out.  Respecting private property and leaving the environment as you found it are equally essential.  With a little knowledge and respect, the urban landscape can reveal a delicious secret.



--- Page 41 ---

**Title:  Ode to a City Pigeon**
**Author:  Anonymous**
**Page number(s): 42**

Feathered friend of grimy street,
A scavenger, swift of feet,
You peck and strut with fearless grace,
A symbol of this hurried place.



Your cooing call, a city song,
Amidst the traffic's hurried throng,
You find your scraps, your humble fare,
Unburdened by a world's despair.



--- Page 43 ---

**Title: The History of the Pocket Watch**
**Author:  Dr. Elias Thorne**
**Page number(s): 43**

The pocket watch, a miniature marvel of horological engineering, holds a significant place in history. Its evolution from bulky clocks to the exquisitely crafted timepieces of the 18th and 19th centuries reflects not only technological advancements but also societal shifts.  Initially the exclusive domain of the wealthy, the pocket watch gradually became more accessible, symbolizing status and punctuality in an increasingly industrialized world.  Its intricate mechanisms and elegant designs continue to fascinate collectors and enthusiasts today, a testament to its enduring appeal.

