Publication date: November 26, 1967
Volume: one
Issue number: four


**MASTHEAD**
- Editors: Gerald Bruck, Daniel Yergin
- Business Manager: Peter Yaeger
- Designer: Ronald Gross
- Photography Editor: Herman Hong
- Associate Editor: Paul Malamud
- Associate Business Manager: Jeffrey Pollock
- Classified Manager: William M. Burstein
- Staff: Wm. Clay Howe, Jean-Pierre Jordan, Jonathan Lear, Chris Little, Howard Newman, David Silberstein, and Budd Whitebook.


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- County That Made Reagan Possible - Michael Mandelbaum and Steven Weisman
- Joseph Heller - Susan Braudy
- Draft Board Dodging - Richard Harison
- The Sidewalk - Stephen Magowan and Joel Katz
- Comment: Oath, Berger, Harvard, Moon, Yale - Jonathan Lear


**Title: (C'mon Joe)**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 1**

(C'mon Joe," they would say to him. "A few of the jokes, maybe yes, but not the whole book. You don't have that kind of traaic sense.")


**Title: The County That Made Ronald Reagan Possible**
**Author: Michael Mandelbaum and Steven Weisman**
**Page number(s): 3-4**

MICHAEL MANDELBAUM, a senior in Yale College, from Berkeley, Calif., is writing his senior essay in political science on Orange County. He spent the summer there doing research. STEVEN WEISMAN, a Yale senior from Beverly Hills, Calif., has lived in Orange County and worked there one summer as a newspaper reporter. He has also written for The New York Times and the Wall Street Journal. This is his second appearance in The New Journal.


Ronald Reagan is governor of California, an undeclared Presidential candidate, and soon to be a Chubb Fellow at Yale. How is all this possible? A significant part of the answer resides in Orange County, which lies in the sun just south of Los Angeles.


Independence Day came early this year to Orange County. Since the California Angels were playing on the night of Tuesday, July 4th in Anaheim Stadium, the traditional (i. e. second annual) "Glorious Old-Fashioned Independence Day Fireworks Spectacular and Pageant" was moved back to Sunday night, July 2nd. Fortunately, the mayor of Anaheim had discovered that the Declaration of Independence was actually adopted by the Continental Congress on July 2, 1776, although not signed until two days later. Thus, their sense of history heightened, ten thousand patriotic families climbed into their cars in nearby Tustin, Garden Grove and Costa Mesa and drove up the SantAna Freeway to celebrate "Declaration of Independence Adoption Day."


It was a curious show. Produced by Tommy Walker, former entertainment impressario at Disneyland (where he created "Fantasy on Parade" and "Fantasy in the Sky"), its first part owed more to Ted Mack and His Amateur Hour than to Thomas Jefferson. Fire house bands blared, performing dogs cavorted around the pitcher's mound, and a French dare-devil careened high over the stands on a wire suspended sixty feet above the infield. A precision drill team clicked and stomped on to the field. They were followed by the Orange County Liberty Chorus and several military color guards, representing each branch of the armed forces. A red convertible carried Miss Liberty Belle, a blond would-be actress, and the Grand Marshal, a marine just off the plane from Saigon.


The marine was greeted on the speaker's platform at the first base line by the evening's host, Marvin Miller, a television performer ("The Millionaire") and movie actor with considerable experience in the Orient himself ("The Shanghai Story" and "Peking Express").


After a few words from the marine ("Ah shore wish all the boys over in Vet Nahm could be here") the audience rose and sang the "Star Spangled Banner" with great vigor.


The parade drained away into the dugouts and then the main attraction: a series of special fireworks displays, a "Super Pyrotechnic Spectacle Sublime" with the theme "In Pursuit of Freedom." The son et lumiere traced the thread of American history, beginning with the Mayflower and the determined, persevering words of the Pilgrims. The scene shifted to Independence Hall, to the high seas, where John Paul Jones won big, then to Abraham Lincoln in his hour of trial. The Lusitania sank in a shower of sparks, and World Wars I and II were fought in five colors. Franklin D. Roosevelt said that the freedom won in these battles must be preserved and protected with vigilance. Finally, the Statue of Liberty, symbol of the pursuit of freedom, appeared and illuminated the scoreboard with a harsh glow. "We are proud," boomed Marvin Miller, "that we are a free people, and that we are Americans."


The program, however, was not over. The final moment belonged to an individual, a deceased "Great American" to whom Dwight D. Eisenhower had recorded a message of tribute. As the former president's voice echoed through the stadium, huge sparks flew out of the right field bullpen and up into the summer sky, outlining the face of Orange County's addition to the patriotic legacy descending from the Pilgrims-Walt Disney.


In early Fall of 1966, the voters of Orange County (the home of most of the people who filled Anaheim Stadium on July 2, 1967) received in the mail a speech recorded on a small vinyl plastic disc. The voice in the recording was flat in tone, but clear, forthright and resolute. It was without ambiguity, like a problem in simple addition.


"My fellow Californians," it began, "this is Ronald Reagan. 1966 is the year of decision for all of us. It's the year when we must decide if our state will go on to greatness in our progressive tradition, or whether it will level to continued mediocrity and the tired, outworn policies of a machine-run by hacks, cronies, incompetents and buyers and sellers of favors. This is the year when Californians of both parties must decide whether they are willing to settle for big brother government, big brother in Sacramento, where the governor has no confidence in the people, and big brother in Washington, where the administration has no confidence in the governor.


Our country is made up of ordinary citizens, and I have a deep and abiding belief that our Founding Fathers made it to be run by ordinary citizens .... The men and women of California are capable of self-government .... A new governor would insist on the right of the community to pass laws enabling them to deal with their particular problems. He'd take action to halt the rising crime rate and the rising cost of welfare.


Vote for me if you believe in yourself; if you believe in your right to determine your own destiny, make your own decisions, and plan your own life."


Over seven out of ten of the residents of Orange County believed in themselves strongly enough to vote for Ronald Reagan. Like a medieval monarch, Reagan is both symbol and defender of the faith of the county; that faith is conservatism, rooted in suddenly and independently acquired prosperity, and the beliefs about America and the world to which that prosperity gives rise. The overwhelming


**Title: Joseph Heller**
**Author: Susan Braudy**
**Page number(s): 7**

(This article is missing from the provided text.)


**Title: Draft Board Dodging**
**Author: Richard Harison**
**Page number(s): 11**



**Title: The Sidewalk**
**Author: Stephen Magowan and Joel Katz**
**Page number(s): 12**



**Title: Comment: Oath, Berger, Harvard, Moon, Yale**
**Author: Jonathan Lear**
**Page number(s): 2**

Oath


The Philosophy Department is currently refusing to accept National Defense Education Act Fellowships. Though the action was taken in the spring, it has thus far received no public notice.


The decision to reject funds under the NDEA, the largest government grant program to graduate students outside the sciences, is based on two requirements of the fellowship. First, an applicant must list all crimes for which he has been convicted or for which charges are pending. Secondly, he is liable for criminal prosecution if he is a member of an organization that has been ordered to register by the Subversive Activities Control Board.


The Philosophy Department made its decision after receiving a letter from the chairman of Cornell's philosophy department, Norman Malcolm, who urged all philosophy departments to refuse NDEA funds and to encourage other departments to follow. In a meeting last spring, the Yale department voted not to accept NDEA fellowships for this academic year.


The main objection within the department centered on the statement of crimes. Since an applicant could be denied an NDEA Fellowship for a crime with which he is merely charged, but not yet convicted, the department considered this a violation of individual liberties, and especially discriminatory against student activists and civil rights workers. "Almost anyone who does any civil rights work has some crime pending," said Robert Fogelin, associate professor of philosophy and one of the leaders of the anti-NDEA movement.


Neither could the faculty accept the criminal liability of an applicant who is a member of an organization officially considered subversive. The list presently contains relatively few organizations, but "Lord know what's going to crop up on that list," Fogelin argued. "The thing about lists is they tend to grow."


While nearly all members were opposed to the conditions of the NDEA Fellowships, debate within the philosophy department hinged on tactics. Fogelin argued fervently for formal rejection of the funds. "We should resist now while we still have a chance of controlling the steps," he said. "The whole drift seems to be in the direction of government support, and in ten years all our students may be on some kind of government grant. In ten years a university won't be able to resist."


Director of Graduate Studies Rulon Wells was one of the few who opposed the motion, and argued that it was "quixotic" simply to refuse NDEA Fellowships.


"I'm lukewarm about protest gestures for to my mind the aim is to get things done, not let people know how you think," said Wells. Rather than rocking the boat he favored working through the Yale administration, and Graduate School Dean John Perry Miller, who was working to change the NDEA laws through Washington lobbies.


Most of the faculty, however, agreed with Fogelin and voted not to accept NDEA Fellowships for this academic year. Though NDEA Fellowships are voluntary and a student can decline it and accept instead a Yale fellowship, the NDEA Fellowships are more generous. As stated in the department's explanation of decision, written by the Acting Chairman John E. Smith, "even if an individual student to whom such a fellowship is offered would be entirely on his own in accepting or in declining to accept the offered fellowship, the Department should not support a program which places any student in this position."


The NDEA Fellowship program at Yale, however, went virtually unaffected by the philosophy department's lone decision. Since the Yale Graduate School applies for NDEA funds as a whole and then allocates it among its departments, NDEA money originally intended for philosophy was given to another department, and funds from other areas were in turn channeled to philosophy.


For this reason, the philosophy department wants the question of Yale's participation in the NDEA program to be brought before the Graduate Faculty as a whole. The total number of NDEA Fellows at Yale has remained unchanged. There are still 220 graduate students receiving NDEA funds. In a letter to the Chairmen and Directors of Graduate Studies, the philosophy department said, "We realize that the amount of fellowship funds available for our department is dependent to an extent on the fact that some Departments accept NDEA Fellowships, and that we are thus ipso facto involved in the NDEA program." If any departments accept NDEA funds, all departments are involved.


If tradition is the guiding light of Yale's actions, then the university as a whole must confront this issue. For, when the NDEA was first passed by Congress in 1958, Yale, under the direction of A. Whitney Griswold, withdrew from the program because it contained a particularly distasteful loyalty oath. With Yale as one of the main lobbying forces, this loyalty oath, known as the "disclaimer affidavit", was repealed in 1962 and Yale chose to accept the other stipulations and re-entered the program.


Although the increasing tempo of war protest has made the problem ever more urgent, the rest of the Graduate School has reacted with glacial speed. Only six departments have even written replies to philosophy's request to bring the issue before the Graduate Faculty, and Dean Miller says, "There's been very little discussion."


Berger


In the admissions office propaganda film, To Be A Man, there's a quick transition from Robert Penn Warren, who has just asked, "What is beauty?", to a Yale student describing a luncheon with an unnamed professor.


"He was great," the student (more or less) says. "We talked about the coursework, but then we got around to me, to what I'd be doing next year, and he was really interested."


The unnamed professor is Harry Berger, who says of himself, "What I do is teach poems. It's recreative."


Berger, compact, energetic, moving quickly but not abruptly, came back to Yale last week for the first time in two years to deliver a Bergen Lecture on The Tempest. Berger first came to Yale in 1941 as a freshman, continued on into the Graduate School, and then taught English here until 1965 and a tenure crisis: there were five men and four positions, and Berger left for the new University of California campus at Santa Cruz.


Santa Cruz, midst the redwoods on Monterey Bay, represents California's attempt to humanize the multiversity. It's organized into a series of semi-autonomous colleges. Two have been built so far, each with about 600 students and 40 faculty fellows. The campus, programmed for intellectuality, has neither fraternities nor inter-collegiate athletics. Berger, a fellow of Cowell College, the first to be built, was also responsible from 1965 to 1967 for hiring English professors for the entire campus. "I hired three Yale Ph.D.'s," says Berger. "The Chancellor thought I was stacking the place. He was right."


Berger likes Santa Cruz, "The kids are very bright," he says. "The ones with the right motivations applied in the first place. But it's so different from Yale, which is a glamorous, alien environment you have to cope with. At Yale the students are more efficient, like captains of industry. In California, everything is so homogeneous, and the kids are a little more innocent. They're eager to learn, but sometimes they come to Santa Cruz expecting a dreamboat of an education. They don't know how hard you have to work to get anything out of anything."


The core courses are taught within each of the colleges. Berger started a core course in literature (as opposed to English), the theory for which he had worked out in his head at Yale. It's based upon the notion of "Speaker/thing Said": it operates on a continuum, with first-person lyric poetry (suitable to Empsonian-style New Criticism) at one end, and straight narrative at the other end. The course is organized around the question: "What is it to say?"


Berger is avoiding, however, generic approaches, which he considers useful only for historical criticism, to determine what a writer thought he was doing.


"Genres are critically unuseful," he says. "Northrop Frye keeps making the same mistakes with archetypes. He looks at all works from a middle distance and can't see the differences in each work. He also assumes a common acceptance of the reading of works, which isn't true."


Berger believes the college system at Santa Cruz promotes more of a sense of a community of scholars than it does at Yale. "An anthropologist and a marine biologist and I talk about what we're doing and we find we have a fund of common ideas hanging there. We all use them. But, of course, Freudian notions are used one way in literature and another way in anthropology."


In some ways, Berger has also discovered that he's a conservative. "Some




**Orange County and the American Dream**
**Author:  Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
41 The New Journal I November 26, 1967 
support he received in Orange County, 
and other areas which share its faith, 
carried the former actor into the California 
statehouse in 1966, and on into the contest 
for the American Presidency in 1968. 

One way to understand the phenomenon 
of Ronald Reagan is by exploring the 
political culture of the 800 square mile 
county that made him possible. 
"The important thing to know about 
Southern California," Harvard's political 
scientist James Q. Wilson has written, 
"is that the people who live there-who 
grew up there-love it. Not just the way 
one has an attachment to a hometown, any 
hometown, but the way people love the 
realization that they found the right mode 
of life." 

With its semi-tropical climate, 2500 
acres of public beaches, its boat harbors 
and its booming economy, the county has 
become the fastest growing area in the 
country. Once a great expanse of orange 
trees and agricultural communities, it is 
now urban sprawl-freeways, shopping 
centers and tract homes-
key real estate 
in the megalopolis that spreads from Santa 
Barbara south 200 miles to San Diego 
along the Southern California coast. 

Between 1950 and 1966, Orange County's 
population increased 500 percent, from 
216,000 to over 1 ,200,000. 

Almost everybody in Orange County 
bas a well-paying job, either as a white 
collar worker or as a h ighly skilled tech-
nician with General Dynamics, North 
American Aviation, Autonetics, or any 
one of the many aerospace firms in the 
county. Everyone owns or is paying for 
his house, most in large commercial tracts, 
heralded by highway billboards announc-
ing such messages as "When You're Here, 
You've Arrived." 

Two cars are a minimum; pleasure boats 
are common. In fact, people in Orange 
County spend more money on more things 
than practically anyone else in America. 
Furniture, for example, is often purchased 
by the roomful, rather than in individual 
pieces. The area is the shopping center 
capital of the world. There are more 
supermarkets along Harbor Blvd. in Costa 
Mesa than in all of New Haven. 

Le Corbusier, the architect, could have 
been thinking of Orange County one night 
at a New York dinner party, when he 
took his napkin and on it sketched a 
square. He then drew a rectangle in the 
lower left-band comer for a door, a 
window in the upper right, and a string of 
smoke emerging from a chimney on top. 
Handing the sketch to his dinner partner, 
be exclaimed: "Voila! The American 
Dream!" 

Orange County is for its residents the 
fulfillment of the American Dream. The 
governor typifies their way of life: 
prosperous, independent, clean. One 
result is an energetic kind of civic pride. 
It was a great day for the county, for 
instance, when in 1963 the Bureau of 
Census officially designed it a "Standard 
Metropolitan Statistical Area," distinct 
from Los Angeles. Two years later the 
Anaheim Stadium was constructed and the 
requisite major league baseball team 
arrived shortly thereafter. 

Related to the achievement of the 
American dream are suggestions of the 
American frontier, with its rugged in-
dividualism. There is also a trace of 
anxiety, a concern that the Pream may 
be ruined by the intrusion of alien forces. 
Orange County is literally a frontier. 
Until recently, most of its land was par-
celled among a few large ranches, which 
came originally from Spanish land grants. 
Over 60,000 acres of the Irvine Ranch 
(second only to Texas' King Ranch in size 
and wealth) is still used for agriculture. In 
the last few years, however, the developers 
have carved out entire towns--even a 
branch of the University of California-
on the rolling hills where cattle used to 
graze. 

"Frontierland," one of Disneyland's 
main attractions, serves as a metaphor for 
the ideal life-style Orange Countians 
admire. Assembled there is Hollywood's 
version of the frontier: shooting galleries, 
the Mark Twain paddle-wheel steamer, 
pack mules, keel boats, Indian war canoes, 
and a frontier trading post. 

Even more representative of this kind 
of nostalgia is Knott's Berry Farm, not 
far from Disneyland. Knott's Berry Farm, 
where the asphalt sticks to your shoes like 
chewing gum on a hot August day, was 
the area's first tourist attraction. It is 
today the spiritual heart of Orange County. 
Walter Knott bas constructed there not 
only an Indian trading post, but also a 
covered wagon camp, a Calico gold mine, 
an operating stage coach route and an 
imitation ghost town. Each day, visitors 
can see a real live shoot-'em-up gunfight 
on the streets of the Old West. 

Knott erected these replicas on land 
where berries once grew; he did it with 
proceeds from the sale of Mrs. Knott's old-
fashioned strawberry jam, which still sells 
widely. The family venture itself is an 
example of self-made success. 

The rugged individuals who populate 
the area, like their mythical forebears, 
are not bound by social convention. Only 
in Orange County can traffic violators 
appear in municipal court shoeless or 
shirtless, taking time out from the beach, 
and be received by the judge with 
eq uanirnity. 

There are several manifestations of 
individualism. The media is geared to 
personalities, like the abrasive Joe Pyne, 
who hurls epithets ("Go gargle with razor 
blades") to the parade of victims who 
appear on his weekly television talk show. 

The Pacific Ocean is part of another 
kind of individualism. Surfing and boating 
are popular partly because they represent 
a confrontation between man and nature. 
Legions of young people travel with their 
boards to take the big waves, or to test 
their body surfing skills at "The Wedge," 
in Newport Beach, where it has not been 
uncommon for swimmers to emerge with 
broken arms and legs. A few have been 
killed. 

As with the pioneers on the frontier, 
survival and success depend upon the ski.ll. 
ingenuity and daring of the individual. The 
logical extension of this attitude is the 
fundamentalist capitalism which predom-
inates in the county. The most prominent 
and most extreme advocate of this position 
is the Santa Ana Register, which is well to 
the right of Adam Smith. The largest news-
paper in the area. emanating from the 
county seat itself, it is part of a chain of 
"Freedom Newspapers," owned by R. C. 
Hoiles, an archconservative octogenarian 
who might almost be classified as an an-
archist. 

Not only does Hoiles object to govern-
ment financing of schools, be believes that 
it should not even provide fire protection: 
that task is better left to privately-owned 
insurance companies. The enormous and 
widespread prosperity of the area, seem-
ingly achieved individually, makes this 
philosophy of pristine laissez-faire attrac-
tive to the citizens of Orange County. It is 
validated by their own experience. 

With all their concern for old-time 
individualism, the settlers of the Orange 
County frontier are citizens in exile. They 
sense that they are cut off from their roots, 
and compensate by a concerted super-
Americanism. The county is reminiscent 
of the British communities in the overseas 
colonies, whose members drank more tea, 
played more cricket and were generally 
more English than anyone at home. 

In the same way, coffee shops in Orange 
County proclaim adherence to "the prin-
ciples of Americanism," gas stations fly 
the Stars and Stripes, and the Pledge of 
Allegiance is chanted at every opportunity. 
There is also a great interest in the Revolu-
tionary War period of American history, 
and the interest extends beyond the 
rhetorical invocation of the Founding 
Fathers. The pride of Knott's Berry Farm 
is a brick-by-brick replica of Independence 
Hall in Philadelphia. 

Part of the tour of the hall is a recorded 
re-enactment of the debate over the pro-
posal to declare independence in the 
Second Continental Congress in a facsimile 
of the room where it took place. The de-
bate sounds familiar. It is carried on in the 
terminology of today's controversy over 
Viet-Nam. The "nervous nellies" who 
oppose a forthright stand for independence 
whine for a "limited war," and a "ne-
gotiated settlement." The bold visionaries 
on the other side insist that compromise 
is impossible, and urge "support for our 
boys who are in the field fighting." 

Thus it is clear that the Founding 
Fathers would have agreed with the 
citizens of Orange County on Viet-Nam, 
just as they would have agreed on Medi-
care, welfare and active government. 

Easterners (and particularly Northern 
Californians) are scornful of the political 
ideology of Orange County, which seems 
to them Blimpish, priggish, reactionary in 
the worst sense, and dangerously over-
simplified. Perhaps so. On the other hand, 
the politics of the county can be justified 
on the basis of its collective experience. 
By the simple act of moving to California, 
the people there have attained the Good 
Life. Therefore it follows that anyone of 
enterprise, no matter what his background 
or color, can attain it-and anybody who 
doesn't is inferior or lazy. 

And this· Good Life was achieved with 
absolutely no assistance from the govern-
ment. Therefore, the government is little 
more than a group of self-serving hacks, 
as Ronald Reagan observed, who have 
no right to claim a share of the prosperity, 
especially not for the purpose of redis-
tributing it among loafers. Any challenges 
to this way fo life-communism or its 
hand-maiden, big government-must be 
resisted. The Good Life, above all, was 
achieved by the American Way, which 
originated somewhere around 1776, and 
was cultivated on the frontier during"the 
19th century. 

The political faith of Orange County, 
then, is not complicated. Prosperity is 
achieved by the efforts of the individuals, 
in a society free of government fetters. 
Americans must protect this freedom, 
otherwise the prosperity may disappear. 
Ronald Reagan, who believes this, has 
been chosen as Protector. 

But this view of the world is not withott 
flaws. The attitude that Orange County's 
prosperity is independent of government 
intervention is not true. It is the govern· 
ment which has subsidized the aerospaa 
companies, built the freeways, educated 
the children, sponsored four large milita!l 
installations which fuel the county's 
economy, and brought water in from the 
north and east to irrigate the land. 

Further, the world-wide view of these 
citizens is unabashedly superficial. The 
capsule creed of Walter Knott, which is 
predominantly displayed in his Freedom 
Book Store, is: "We oppose Communism 
Naziism, Fascism, and all otb"er forms of 
Socialism." 

And finally, Orange County has becolll! 
a disturbing fulfillment of the American 
Dream. When everybody has a Le Cor-
busier dream-house in the suburbs, and 
when everybody has his own car and can 
go anywhere he pleases, the result is a 
huge ticky-tacky residential sprawl, with 
no organizing pattern, and no center city. 
This sprawl is laced with freeways, when 
every day hundreds of thousands of 
Americans speed along in isolated, alien· 
ated, hypnotic, frenzied equality. Ronald 
Reagan has become the political expressi01 
of this way of life. 

The waking world has a way of intrud· 
iog on dreams. Most of the population 
now lives north of the Newport Freeway, 
which bisects Orange County. They oc· 
cupy homes built between 1950 and 196a 
which can be expected to deteriorate 
rapidly ten or fifteen years after constrlll" 
tion. Rather than pay the high cost d 
repair, residents are likely to travel south, 
where extensive residential development~ 
already under way. The dilapidated houses 
which they leave can probably be sold onl! 
to low income groups, groups to whom 
better housing is not available-to 
Negroes. Orange County, which voted 78 
percent against fair housing in 1964, ma! 
contain, within the next few years, another 
Watts. 

One day last summer, residents of 
Newport Beach, their eyes irritated to teaJI 
in a way they bad never expected, sensed 
that change was in the air; dirty, wispy 
brownish clouds, never before seen in the 
area, were floating in the sky, moving 
slowly down from the Los Angeles basin 
into Orange County. The sun was still 
warm, the blue waves rolled in as steadilY 
as ever, and the beaches were no less 
crowded. But for the first time, smog, 
resulting from the noxious gases released 
into the air by the cars and factories of 
modern society, had come to Orange 
County. 

It was only a few days later that thret 
well-scrubbed boys stood by Main Street 
in Disneyland watching a Chaplinesque 
"Disneyland Sanitation Department" 
worker shovel a yellowish-brown mound, 
a souvenir from a horse who had passed 
by earlier, into his cart. Two of the boys 
winced, grimaced, groaned, held their 
noses, and generally showed a militant 
disdain for the animal's excrement. The 
third, however, reacted differently. He VI' 
incredulous. He stared, and stared, and 
stared at the disappearing pile. In DisneY· 
land? He just couldn't believe it. 



**Joseph Heller: A Profile**
**Author: Susan Braudy**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
7l'lbe New Journal! November 26, 1967 
"C'mon Joe," they would say 
to him. "A few of the jokes, 
maybe yes, but not the whole 
book. You don't have that 
kind of tragic sense." 
By Susan Braudy 
"I believe that Joseph Heller is one of the 
most extraordinary talents now among us." 
-
Robert Brustein, 1961 
"/like a lecture that mentions Catch-22 ." 
-Yale Freshman, 1967 
"I had lunch today with Joseph Heller. 
You know what he talked about during 
lunch. Lunch. He talked about lunch," 
said a graduate student. "Orange drink at 
Yale. Either that guy is wearing a mask or 
else he didn't write that book." 
"Joseph Heller, an easy-laughing man," 
was the way Vogue magazine saw Heller 
a year after Catch-22 was published. 
Vogue held a manicured finger to the 
fashion winds and called Heller a new 
trend in fashion, along with the high-
waisted dress and the overblouse. 


But Heller doesn't laugh easily and he 
did write Catch-2 2. When Heller, the 
master of tragi-comic farce, laughs, he 
sounds only obliging. It's as though be 
were reading, hahahaha, from a script of 
the conversation. 


When he writes, Heller uses humor to 
lure his audience into unexpected con-
frontations with a tragic truth. Suddenly 
the immediacy of your laughter brings 
you face to face with man's vulnerability. 
But in real life Heller uses his humor to 
keep people from looking too closely at 
him and, more important, to defend him-
self from the truths he too easily sees. 


"Of course he's masked," says a close 
friend of Heller's. "He'd be an open wound 
otherwise. There's nothing arty about 
Joe's mask, either. He's often mysterious 
because be's so plain." 


"Today's Rosh Hashanah, a religious 
holiday, right? No classes on Rosh 
Hashanah. So what're you doing here?" 
Heller greets the playwriting students 
waiting for him in the gloomy hall of the 
Drama School annex. He sees he is the 
only one enjoying his joke. He laughs 
loudly and shifts his gum massage stick 
from the side to the front of his mouth. 
"All right, you convinced me. We'll have 
our class." 


This semester Heller is teaching a grad-
uate playwriting seminar and an under-
graduate creative writing class at Yale, 
while the Drama School is producing his 
new play, We Bombed in New Haven, 
which opens December 4. 


Heller is a thick and handsome 44. He 
looks like he might have made a lot of 
money publishing popular art books in 
New York. His face is large and fleshed 
out, but not fat. His large brown eyes seem 
to stare directly inward as well as outward. 
He looks prosperous. 


Despite the expensive navy or green 
blazer, the striped shirt and tie, Heller 
looks tough. Maybe it's the Stim-u-dent 
toothpick that hangs out of the side of ?is 
mouth. Maybe it's his graying curly barr 
long in the back and in the sideburns, but 
slicked back from a widow's peak. It could 
be his broad shoulders or the slight swag-
ger in his walk. The effect is exotic for 
Yale, but not for the Drama School. 


Twenty years ago Esquire printed a 
Heller short story along with a picture of 
Heller, 24 years old, a junior Phi Beta 
Kappa at Nytj, married, and the owner of 
a good conduct medal from the war. 


In Esquire's picture, his large nose and 
SUSAN BRAUDY, the wife of Leo 
Braudy, a member of the English Dept., 
does free-lance writing. 
eyes sit uneasily on a dark, skinny face. He 
looks scared and underfed. Like most pic-
tures, if you stare at it long enough, the 
eyes seem to stare directly outward and 
directly inward at the same time. 


"Listen, you're crazy," a tired Heller 
rubs the back of his neck in the New 
Haven railroad station. "You've over-
researched this article. What do you want 
to work so hard for? Next time you write 
an article, take my advice, hand the guy 
20 questions and a tape recorder, and 
that'll be your article." 


Heller had agreed to let me interview 
him on the train back to New York after 
his Thursday classes. I started to leave him 
to buy my ticket. "Better take your notes 
with you," he said, "or I may burn them. 
Who would be interested in all that junk 
about me anyway?" 


Heller has a thing about money. He 
enjoys talking about it. A few years ago 
Heller and Edward Albee were both guests 
at a small dinner party. Albee wanted to 
talk Art. But he never got the chance. 
Heller spent all evening talking about 
taxes. 


"My generation was oriented to the 
Depression," Heller once said. "When I 
was in school, we all wanted to get out and 
make a good living. Today most students 
do not know what they want to do. They 
only know what they don't want to do--
go to war." 


In the dining car of the train, Heller 
begins, "I'm probably going to fall asleep 
before I can answer any of your questions. 
Tell me again why you're writing this 
article. Somebody must be paying you a 
lot of money to ride into New York with 
me. You're probably crazy." 


He leans across the table and whispers, 
"If you sit here in the dining car, some-
times you can get a free ride." 


Interviewer: "What did you hope to ac-
complish by writing We Bombed in New 
Haven, Mr. Heller?" 


H el/er (rolls his handsome head and 
sighs to the ceiling before he puts a fresh 
Stim-u-dent in his mouth. He talks like 
the guy eating at the delicatessen after 
Saturday morning golf.): "What else, 
I wanted to make a million dollars." 


Interviewer: "No, really." 


Heller: "All right. Right now I want to 
make every woman cry and every man 
feel guilty when he has to go home and 
face his sons. What can fathers do 
about VietNam? 
(Heller pauses and says with emphasis) 
"You ask what did I mean to accom-
plish. I meant to write a very good play." 


The Resistance has bought tickets for 
the play to aid the movement against the 
war. Heller predicts that, if things continue 
as they are now, in six or eight months 
I 00.000 Americans will be under indict-
ment for breaking laws in draft protests. 
"This could end the war. They can't put 
everybody in jail." 


Heller believes this war is different from 
World War II. World War II, be believes, 
had to be fought. 


A little over a year ago, H o/iday sent 
Heller (and his wife and two children) 
back to the air base in Corsica where most 
of his war, World War II, took place. From 
there, Heller had flown missions as a wing 
bombadier. 


But Corsica was no longer the place his 
war had been. His war was over and gone, 
and he saw that even his travel-weary, 
ten-year-old son realized it. 


"What the grouchy kid didn't realize 
though was that his own military service 
was still ahead; and I could have clasped 
him in my arms to protect him as he stood 
there, half hanging out of the car with his 
sour look of irritation." 


In We Bombed In New Haven, Captain 
Starkey must personally induct his son 
into the army. Starkey always does what 
he is told. He fits into the system, and the 
system destroys him. 


Heller never read Pirandello, but Piran-
dello's spirit is in the play. The characters 
are both actors and soldiers at the same 
time. Their parts and their lives as soldiers 
are controlled by an existing script that 
they have read and by a metaphysical 
script to which only the Major has access. 
When another character refuses to die, 
as the script dictates, the Major is not sur-
prised. Because he has the ultimate script, 
the Major knows how this man must 
ultimately die. 


One of Heller's playwriting students re-
marked on the relevance of the play 
metaphor. "Most guys think they'll go in, 
play the role of the soldier for two years, 
and then come back and pick up where 
they left off. They don't think: go in, play 
soldier, and be killed. If they knew what 
Heller's characters know about their own 
deaths, they wouldn't take it so lightly." 


The Drama School publicity people 
asked Heller if they could advertise the 
play as a comedy. Heller said no. Even 
though, he says, if you call it a comedy, 
more people will probably buy tickets to 
see it. But Heller uses comedy and satire 
for other ends. There are many jokes in the 
first act of the play. But early in the 
second act, a soldier says, "There'll be no 
more laughing tonight", and the play 
moves swiftly to its tragic conclusion. 


H el/er (showing no signs of falling 
asleep as he eats his chicken dinner in 
the dining coach of the New York train): 
"I know what you can write about. I'll 
give you the anecdote about how I hap-
pened to write the play." 


Heller was born in Coney Island in 
1923. In Show magazine, he wrote: 
"Coney Island is beautiful to children and 
ugly to adults, and, in this respect, it is 
often typical of life itself." 


After graduating from Abraham Lin-
coln High School in 1941, HeUer went to 
work as a blacksmith's helper in the Nor-
walk Navy Yard, though at the time be 
was too skinny to lift a sledge hammer. 


He enlisted in the Army Air Corps in 
1942, a few months before be would have 
been drafted. Like Yossarian, Heller 
figured that the war would be over before 
he got into it. 


"What incredible optimism we had in 
those days. We believed that any country 
that tried to take on the US would be 
knocked off in a week." 


First Heller went to armorers' school. 
Then he transferred to cadet school when 
rumors began to circulate that armorers 
became gunners. Gunners didn't last long 
in combat. 


Heller went into combat as a wing 
bombadier in 1944, two years after be 
enlisted. He remembers that at first be was 
disappointed because his missions were 
milk runs, that is, nobody shot back at his 
plane. 


"I was a jackass. I thought war would 
be a lot of fun, but I wasn't the only one 
who was na·ive." 


Heller listened quietly as a playwriting 
student told him about Jack Valenti's 
recent talk in the Law School. Valenti,


--- Page 8 ---

**The Success of Catch-22 and the Genesis of We Bombed in New Haven**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10 I The New Journal! November 26, 1967 
"Don't forget," he added, "Joe worked 
on his own escape, that novel, for over 
eight years." 

When rave reviews started coming in, 
Heller took to carrying them around at 
work. He became so excited about Brus-
tein's review in theN ew Republic that 
he told friends Brustein probably wrote 
better than he did. Heller signed countless 
books for McCall's people, but he never 
gave anyone free copies. He chided people 
who brought their copies discounted from 
Korvette's. But he treated friends to lunch 
if they promised to check how the book 
was selling at nearby book stores. 

His business friends found it difficult 
to believe he had actually written Catch-
2 2. "C'mon Joe," they would say to him. 
"A few of the jokes, maybe yes, but not 
the whole book. You don't have that kind 
of tragic sense." 

In November, 1961, two weeks after 
publication date, Brustein and Heller met 
for the first time at the home of the Village 
Voice art critic. Heller was so thrilled 
about going to parties and meeting famous 
people during this time that it took him 
months to catch on that parties had been 
thrown so that people could meet him. He 
was the guest of honor. 

That night, Heller talked about things 
he'd been through in the army. He talked 
about being so high in the clouds that when 
you hit a bridge, you couldn't tell if there 
were people on it or not. 

Heller took a leave of absence from 
McCall's a few months after Catch-22 was 
published, and he never returned. During 
the next five years he wrote critical and 
autobiographical articles for national mag-
azines, went to Hollywood to write the 
"polish" (the final script) for "Sex and the 
Single Girl", worked on his next novel 
which he predicts will be finished in the 
next two to twelve years, and toured col-
lege campuses speaking and reading from 
Catch-22. 

Catch-22 was translated into 121an-
guages, became a best seller in countries 
like England and Czechoslovakia, and 
sold more than 3,500,000 copies. Heller 
sold an option unti11969 on the production 
rights to Columbia Pictures for a reported 
$150,000. 

Heller is not interested, he says, in 
whether the book is ever made into a 
movie. Filming may begin this summer. 
Mike Nichols was slated some time ago to 
direct the movie. Alan Arkin was chosen 
as the movie's star. 

It was while Heller was doing reading 
and speaking tours on Catch-22 that be 
conceived of having four actors and an 
actress do readings from Catch-22 plus 
source readings from Shakespeare from 
which a surprising number of Catch-22 
passages derive. 

"Sort of readings and misreadings from 
Shakespeare," was the way Heller des-
cribed his plan to a Film ways executive 
who had bought production rights from 
Columbia. 

But as Heller began to look for a device 
to give his play more form, be decided to 
drop Catch-22, which was becoming a 
burden, and to write an original play. His 
first draft contained Falstaff's speech on 
honor among other Shakespearean pas-
sages, most of which have been cut from 
the final draft. 

At this point, late last fall, Heller came 
to Yale to give a talk at Calhoun College, 
during which be described himself as "a 
born promotion man." 

"He's incredible," was the reaction of 
one Yale student after Heller's speech. 
"He comes on like a real Madison A venue 
fat cat with that born promotion man 
business. If I were the author of C atch-22, 
I'd bill myself as a born American author." 

The next night, Heller bad dinner with 
the Brusteins at their home. During dinner 
he discussed his idea for the play. Brustein 
was very excited and encouraged Heller 
to get to work on it. 

The first draft of the first half of the 
first act appeared in Brustein's mail along 
with an outline of the rest of the play 
about a month later. As soon as he read it, 
Brustein realized that Heller had obviously 
thought much more deeply about the play 
than he had let on when they had talked 
about it. 

After four more months of hard work. 
Heller sent Brustein the second draft of 
the whole play. Brustein read it and be-
came so excited by the last act that he read 
it first to his wife, and was still so excited 
that he called Philip Roth long distance 
and read it to him. 

Brustein then invited Heller to be Play-
wright-in-Residence for this semester and 
contracted for Yale Drama School to pro-
duce the first production of We Bombed 
In 
. (The title changes each 
time the play is produced in a different 
city.) Thus the play would be known first 
as We Bombed in New Haven. 

The first public reading of the play in 
late October was a smash hit. The actors 
read it before the entire drama school. At 
the play's end, Heller himself was among 
those moved to tears. 

One student said he didn't see how the 
play could ever be better. Many agreed 
they bad never beard a first reading so 
good. The actors sounded so natural that 
people kept referring back to their scripts 
to make sure they weren't improvising. 

After the reading, Larry Arrick, the 
director, fresh from the off-broadway pro-
duction of Fragments by Murray Schisgal, 
asked students to go and come quietly 
from rehearsals without disturbing the 
cast. He also asked them not to sit back 
and snipe and criticize. 

Then Heller, joking in his best Catch-22 
style, told students they could make as 
much noise as they wanted at rehearsals, 
and for God's sake, if they bad any critic-
ism, please speak up. 

That day, Heller remembered all the 
reasons he had decided to open his play in 
New Haven. Without Brustein's encour-
agement, first of all, there might not have 
been a play at all. Also he viewed his first 
play as an educational experience. He bad 
felt that at Yale he would have the most 
creative freedom to develop and change 
his script. 

"The pressure here at Yale," he told his 
playwriting class while he loosened his tie 
and unbuttoned the top two buttons on 
his shirt, "would never be as bad as New 
York where every jerk you meet wants to 
change your script." 

We Bombed in New Haven went into 
rehearsal October 30, inside the dark, 
deserted, and often chilly, old WNHC 
building on Chapel Street. 

After one rehearsal Heller was a ner-
vous wreck. He told his playwriting stu-
dents about a night of fitful sleeping at the 
Midtown Motor Inn, tossing and turning 
in anguish over what he bad seen at re-
he~sal. All night long, maniacs on either 
side of his room banged walls and played 
radios. At 5 a.m. a distraught Heller dis-
covered that, in fact, the radio built into 
his own night table had been on all night. 

Heller was now having trouble remem-
bering the reasons be had brought his play 
to Yale. He had just been told that the 
actors would not be able to rehearse on 
stage with props and correct spacing until 
four days before opening night, because 
the stage was being used by undergraduates 
and the San Francisco Mime Troupe. 

And Stacy Keach, the star of We Bombed 
In New Haven, would not be able to at-
tend the first week and a half of rehearsals. 
"They've been rehearsing a different 
play all this week," Heller said, "It's called 
Waiting For Stacy." 

Heller was also shattered after the first 
rehearsal to find his stage directions 
ignored, vebal emphases changed, jokes 
lost, and continuity continually disrupted. 
Lines were dragging that Heller bad 
envisioned as fast repartee. If an actor 
would say a line as Heller had envisioned 
it, he would heave a sigh and think, great 
he's got it. But ten minutes later in another 
run-through of the same scene, the actor 
would say the line completely differently. 

"I can't understand it," Heller told his 
playwriting students. "Maybe I just better 
stay away from rehearsals for my own 
peace of mind, my own sanity." 

The young playwrights had almost all 
been through bad moments like these. 
They told Heller that the best thing he 
could do would be to stop going to rehears-
als, until right before the play opened. 
They assured him that things always 
spring into shape during final rehearsals 
with or without the then-broken figure of 
the playwright. 

Heller agreed and seemed to cheer up. 
But he decided to go to one more re-
hearsal. 

After rehearsal number two, he told his 
students, huddled in a dark corner watch-
ing the play through a glass window, that 
Anthony Holland and Ron Liebman were 
adding new comic levels and texture to 
the characters they played. 

· "I'm learning. I'm learning," said Heller 
later that day on the train, "that I wrote a 
script not a production. In novels, the 
writer defines and limits his characters, but 
not in plays. If an actor has any talent and 
is working with a good director, he will fill 
out bare words in the script." 

But the play was still making HeUer very 
nervous. He decided to stay away for two 
weeks, cross his fingers, and hope every-
thing would come out all right. 

"Otherwise," be said weakly," I think 
there will have to be some unpleasantness." 

But Heller. couldn't stay away for two 
weeks. He was back one week later for 
Stacy Keach's first rehearsal. After the 
rehearsal, he was joking, but he was still 
very upset. 

"Listen, who's nervous," be said, "I'm 
a veteran of the theater now. After two 
weeks experience I've learned a lot. I've 
learned to suffer excruciating torture with-
out making a sound while they blow my 
play." 

But Heller was feeling better. Heal-
lowed as how he was beginning to like the 
theater. He was even beginning to take 
actors seriously after a long evening with 
Ron Liebman. 

But Heller had a new worry. In the week 
that he was gone, the Major had developed 
a southern accent. Heller said, "I don't 
like the Major with a southern accent. I 
don't want the audience to think be's 
supposed to be Johnson. By projection the 
play is about the Viet Narn war. Specifi-
cally, it's about a very unspecific war." 

"The Major is supposed to be as sinister 
and mysterious as fate or destiny or God. 
I don't want him to be turned into a south-
ern jingoist." 

What will you do after this play, asks a 
student. 

"I don't have a work compulsion, I don't 
have to write plays or novels. What're you 
laughing about, Allan? I had one when I 
was your age, but I don't have one any-
more. I just want to write a good novel or 
a play once in a while. I can make enough 
money to live doing movie polishes. I can 
get a certain amount of satisfaction from 
doing that. I don't always have to be doing 
great art." 

One can understand. Catch-22 and Wt 
Bombed in New Hawm are both about 
war, but beyond that they're about the 
fragility and vulnerability of people, about 
the wars that people wage against other 
people and against themselves. When you 
see and feel this evil, as Heller did over 
A vignon, you will never forget it, but you 
can't take the pain of constantly facing it. 

Interviewer: "Isn't it a funny feeling that 
so many people you don't even know 
were so moved by your book and will 
also be moved by your play? 
Heller: "Not a funny feeling. It's a good 
feeling. See that guy over there (He 
points to a man across the aisle eating 
soup and engrossed in a paperback.) 
When my book first came out in paper, 
I'd get into the subway or train and look 
at the books people were reading. If the 
paperback bad blue edges, it was Dell. 
My book is in Dell, so then I'd have to 
try to see the cover. If the guy was read· 
ing my book, it was a good feeling." 

~ 
Correction ~ 
Modem Library Contest 
Under Author Number 7, there should be 
only t~o lines for his books published 
by the Modern Library, not three. 
Hint: He is not John Kenneth Galbraith. 


**How My Draft Board Dodged the Subject When I Brought Up the Draft**
**Author: Richard Harison**
**Page number(s): 11**

11 1 The New Journal! November 26, 1967 
How My Draft Board 
X' 
Dodged the Subject When 
I Brought Up the Draft 
By Richard Harison 

When I left my home in Westport, 
Connecticut last summer and set out for 
California, I hardly expected to return 
as a non-cooperator with the Selective 
Service System and a full-time organizer 
for the Resistance. I came back in October, 
after turning in my draft card, because it 
seemed to me that I had a responsibility 
to explain my actions to each member of 
my draft board, to try to make them con-
front the issues individually, just as I had. 

It was with a vague uneasiness that I 
plodded along the rain-soaked streets of 
Bridgeport, hunting out the residences of 
the nameless, generally faceless men who 
decide whether a young man such as 
myself spends his time in San Francisco 
or Viet-Nam. 

I kept asking myself whether anything 
I could say would make these men appre-
ciate my position, let alone get them to 
thinking that what they were doing might 
not be in anybody's best interests. 

I remembered when I had gone before 
them as a group. U they acted individually 
in the same manner as they did together, 
I thought, peering at a house number, then 
this was all a waste of time. My only com-
fort was denying them the privilege of 
smugly passing me off as a draft-dodger, 
Communist, traitor, or any of the other 
epithets that they were likely to use. 

Impossible as it might seem, I still hoped 
they would understand. 

With that hope, I ran the bell of Number 
Two, a portly, seemingly pleasant man in 
his early fifties. (I used this numerical 
designation not only because it is the 
preference of the board members that 
nobody know who they are, but also be-
cause of the remarks of one of the board 
clerks who referred to the chairman as 
"Number One, the BIG man.") 

I explained that I had returned my draft 
cards on October 16th and had flown back 
from the coast to talk about it. He laughed 
and placed his arm on my shoulder. 
"Why you didn't have to come all the 
way back here for that," he said, "You 
could have just written the Board. They 
would have sent you another one." 

I tried to explain, but he seemed deter-
mined to believe that I wanted a favor 
from him. 
"You can be sure that the Board will 
decide your case fairly and in your best 
interests. We certainly don't want to send 
anybody who has a good reason for not 
going." 

"I realize that," I replied, "but as things 
stand, the board is not who's going to 
decide .... " He glanced at his watch. 
"I'm sorry," he said, "but you'll have to 
excuse me right now. I have a Church 
meeting to attend." He straightened his 
tie. "I'm a Deacon, you know." 

I thanked him for his time and left, 
puzzled mainly about his lack of curiosity. 

At Number Three's house I received a 
more expected reaction. It was hard even 
getting him to the door. He seemed quite 
absorbed with the show he was watching 
on his color TV set. 

When he finally did answer, I delivered 
my prepared sentence of introduction. His 
initial remark was that I should present 
myself at the next Board meeting, and 
they would decide fairly what was to be 
done. 

RICHARD HA.RISON, who groduaud 
from Yale in 1966, has studied at the 
Institute for the Study of Non-Violence in 
Carmel, Calif., and is now an organizer 
for the Resistance in San Francisco. 

"But I have turned in my draft card," 
I said. 
"Well you better get another one." 

I was once again stumbling for the right 
words when he continued. 
"I don't see why you've come to me 
about it. I can't do anything for you. 
You'll have to see the Board." 

"But I am no longer going to deal with 
the board," I replied, "I'm only here 
to .... " 
"Wait. Wait just a minute now," be 
said, finally grasping the situation. "Just 
who puts these ideas in you kids heads 
anyhow? Who does it? Your professors or 
what?" 

"Not just them," I answered. "Lots of 
people. Professors, friends, ministers, 
people I respect, books, the New Testa .... " 
"You went to school then, did you?" 

"Yes," I replied, "I graduated from 
Yale in 1966." 
"And what church do you go to?" 

"Mostly Episcopal; I also attend Quaker 
meeting." He shook his head. 
"All that fine upbringing, and you still 
don't believe in war. Well I want you to 
know one thing. I didn't like it in '42 when 
I went to war. I was 38 years old then. 
Had a nice job and a good home. But I 
went when my country called." 

"You enlisted?" I asked. 
"Well, no, I was drafted. But it's all the 
same. I went. But you listen to my advice. 
Go down to the Board and ask them to 
set up a hearing for you. We'll decide your 
case fairly." 

I thanked him for his time and turned 
towards the door. 
"You're lucky I didn't know what this 
was all about, or I wouldn't have let you 
in in the first place." He firmly closed the 
door. 

Number Four seemed more interested 
and more curious. He was very courteous 
and very prompt to open the door. Un-
fortunately, most of our hour-long con-
versation was spent while he rambled on 
about his boyhood days, but occasionally 
he would dwell on specific points. 

"What's the matter with young kids in 
this country today? America has been 
good to them. They have a good educa-
tion, most of them, come from nice homes. 
Why shouldn't they fight for their country? 
My grandfather, my father, and I all 
went. My son just got out. Four year hitch 
in the Navy. Besides we got to stop these 
Communistics. You don't want to fight 
them over here do you?" 

"1 don't want to have to fight them any-
where," I answered. "I think man can 
find alternatives to war." 
"Try and tell them that." 

"Even if that were true," I said, "does 
that make it right to violate the United 
Nations Charter or the 1954 Geneva 
Agreements? Is America to be proud that 
she condemns criminality and violence 
and yet practices both of them?" 

"Well, if you're talking about Viet-
Nam," he said, "I agree with you. I'm as 
opposed to this war as you are. It was a 
mistake to get involved, and it is a mistake 
to keep fighting there." 

Then how, I asked, could he keep send-
ing more and more men over there? How 
could be serve on a draft board whose 
function is to replace the men who have 
already died with more and more? Number 
Four straightened up in his chair and 
folded his hands. 

"That's what the government wants me 
to do, and they've been good to me. I got 
a nice house, a car, a good job. I raised 
kids here. Besides, nobody can stop this 
war. The Vice-President says it doesn't 
matter how they vote in San Francisco, 
'cause he's not going to pay any attention 
to them." 

"But if I were opposed to the war," 
I replied, "I certainly wouldn't work for 
Dow Chemical or Colt." 

"Oh, but that's different," he replied. 
"People are always going to hunt." 

"Not with M 16s and napalm," I said. 
"And don't you ever look forward to a 
world where man can live without war?" 

"Sure I do. That's why we got to fight. 
To stop people from wanting to conquer 
people." 

I glanced at my watch and rose to leave, 
thanking him for listening to me. I had 
reached the door when he said "You'll see. 
There's nothing you kids can do to stop 
this war, so you might as well shape up 
and go. You'll only be ruining your life 
if you don't go. And who knows? You 
might just get a desk job or something." 

I got back inside the car and looked at 
my list. The last man on it was Number 
One. I remember him well from the time 
I had gone before the board. How could 
I forget his neat little syllogism about 
pacifists: 

I. Pacifists don't like war. 
2. Nobody in the army likes war; 
therefore: The army is a group of 
pacifists. 
3. People in the army are serving; 
therefore: All pacifists should serve. 

When I got to his apartment, I rang 
the bell, and I heard someone on the inside 
approach the door. But instead of open-
ing it, he seemed to wait behind it. Finally 
he rustled a few locks and the door 
opened about four inches before the brace 
of chains snapped taut. I explained who 
I was and why I was there. 

"Please leave. There's nothing I can do 
for you." 

"If you're busy right now, I could come 
back some other time, either here or at 
your office." I watched his eyes scrutiniz-
ing me inch by inch while his hand gripped 
the doorknob. 

"No, please leave me alone," he said, 
shutting the door. 

As 1 approached the doorman, I couldn't 
help but remarking, "Mister F. is a very 
frightened man, isn't he?" 
"Yes," the doorman solemnly replied, 
"he is." 


**The Sidewalk**
**Author: Stephen Magowan**
**Page number(s): 12**

121 The New Journal I November 26, 1967 
The Sidewalk 
A Screenplay 
By Stephen Magowan 
Photographed by Joel Katz 

STEfHEN MAGOWAN is a Scholar of 
the House presently working on, in addi-
tion to his project, an adaptation and a 
revue commissioned by the American 
Conservatory Theater in San Francisco. 
JOEL KATZ, after six years in New 
Haven as student, is an instructor of 
photography in the School of Art and 
Architecture and an associate editor of 
the Yale Alumni Magazine. 

Exterior: street, day: 
The business district. A winter month. 
From the window of a skyscraper one 
watches the mechanical flow beneath. 
SOUND: of an approaching subway train, 
finished by a cruel breaking. 

A closer view details the intricate maneu-
verings of what had seemed an easy tide: 
the streaming from the underground into 
daylight, the jostling for position: a general 
moving, individually performed, played 
out against the sounds of a morning's rush 
hour. 

A study of legs as they attempt to avoid 
the trampling of a newspaper, folded to the 
listings of the American Stock Exchange. 

MR. AKIN makes his exit from the subway 
station, blinks at the sun, adjusts his flower, 
plots his course. Whereas others make the 
journey with a newspaper, MR. AKIN gazes 
unemotionally at the buildings: a sub-
limated aesthete. 

From another angle: detail of the studied 
avoidance of the stock quotations, this 
time of the Whol~Man, of the complete 
gesture. 

Slow motion. 

MR. AKIN approaches the folded news-
paper, his gaze still lifted. He looks down. 
He stops: a still of several seconds. Then 
he steps on . .. an exaggerated slow motion 
... steps purposively on the newspaper. 
His right leg drops outrageously, his face 
becomes a portrait of agony. 

A silent scream. 

The pavement block, as if on hinges, has 
dropped and closed up on his ankle. 

MR. AKIN regards his predicament. About 
to yell, he thinks better of it. Embarrassed, 
he decides on a light heart. 

Pause. He bends his other leg to effect a 
less lopsided look. A furtive glance reveals 
to his satisfaction that he has been un-
observed. To appear less conspicuous, he 
picks up the folded newspaper, pretending 
a study. 

Pause. He looks down: he grinds his teeth, 
his entrapped leg taut as fishing tackle, as 
he struggles to extricate himself. After an 
awful moment, his eyes roll, swim ... 

A spot appears on his sock, grows: blood. 

MR. AKIN pulls down his pants to cover 
his sock. 

Startled by his concentration, he looks 
about to check if he has been observed. 
He returns to himself, deliberating, 
preparing. Again he tries for freedom ... 
uselessly. Anger. Once again: an extra-
vagant effort, dying in a quiver, a stifled 
yelp. 

A PASSER-BY bumps into MR. AKIN. 
PASSER-BY (W a/king away, over his 
shoulder): Do you mind not taking up 
the whole sidewalk? 
MR. AKIN: Yes. 
PASSER-BY: There's a time and place for 
reading, you know. 
MR. AKIN: I'll be on my way. 

MR. AKIN pantomimes a brisk walk: arms 
swinging, weight shifting, eyes down. 
After a moment he looks up, relieved the 
PASSER-BY is no longer attending to him 
He looks behind, searching out another 
pedestrian. 

A PEDESTRIAN nears. MR. AKIN edges over, 
utters an abortive wave. 
MR. AKIN: I'm sorry. 
PEDESTRIAN (Continuing on, not looking): 
That's alright. 
MR. AKIN: Can you help ... ? 
PEDESTRIAN (Annoyed, eyes averted): 
No. Oh, no! I'm sorry. I've left my wallet 
... I don't know where ... 
MR. AKIN (Stopping him): It's not that 
kind of help. 
(The PEDESTRIAN turns to him, close, 
unaware) 
It's kind of embarrassing. Sort of. I ... 
Well, you see, I work in there, you know. 
(He points to a skyscraper) 
It's just ... Sir, it's just a question of 
getting there. 
(Pause) 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
):
131 The New Journal I November 26, 1967
've seen me in there. I've seen you,
seen me.
PEDESTRIAN: What do you know? I'm late.
MR. AKIN: The sidewalk just went ...
down, and then it went ... up. Like a
certain stock I know.
PEDESTRIAN: You're sweating. It's cold
and you're sweating!
MR. AKIN: I sweat sort of easy like.
PEDESTRIAN: Why don't you get off the
8dewalk?
MR. AKIN: I can't.
PEDESTRIAN (Embarrassed): Oh,l'm sorry.
Are you ... Are you frozen or something?
MR. AKIN: Well ... I'm kind of frustrated.
Kind of hard to do anything on my own.
'He looks down)
PEDESTRIAN (Looking down at MR. AKIN'S
foot: a huge grin breaking): Oh, you've
made a monkey out of me! Gosh, I
think you were frozen. It didn't
sense.
; happily)
it! You're advertising, of course.
's it for?-some kind of footwear?
Yeah, there are the cameras.
(He points at the camera)
What station are you going to be on?
Something big, 1 bet, something like a
lllecial, huh? What station are you going
lobe on?
(Pause; Less happily)
1be camera guy's going to have to stop
llaning soon. I can't be in this.
(PGU.se)
9iby are you doing this? I mean, what's
tbebrand?
(Pause; growing frustration)
You know, not everyone tunes in on the
Ida. Okay, some are sort of funny. Is this
IDing to be funny? A sort of Rumple-
llilken thing?
IP....,e. Angry. He takes out a pen and pad)
Oby, who does your advef1ising?
at.Oding)
l11oft•t tell anyone.
.... e. A smiled whisper)
Oby.It's hush-hush. Look, I've got a
secret. I've got the crabs. What's your
secret?
(Afraid)
I haven't done anything to you! Why are
you bothering me? You've got me late to
work, you realize. Late!
(Pause)
You're going to come out of there and
molest me!!
I'm going to tell somebody. Okay? ...
You won't come out after me? ... Just
stay right there, huh?
(Backing away)
Stay! ... Stay!
In panic, the PEDESTRIAN searches out
another person. He stops a MAN and
points to MR. AKIN: the MAN stares and
laughs. Gradually, a CROWD gathers, is
told by whispers, gestures, jokes of MR.
AKIN'S predicament.
MR. AKIN looks at the CROWD. He is en-
circled. The CROWD is either embarrassed
to meet his gaze, or stares back coldly.
Some look sheepishly at the camera.
A bustling of the CROWD: an EXECUTIVE,
silver-haired and Important, a card-holder
of a high echelon, breaks through. For
MR. AKIN it is the coming of relief, of
safety, security, of help.
EXECUTJV£ (Approaching, sober and dis-
pleased): WeU?
MR. AKIN: I've never been so happy to see
anyone in my life!
EXECUTIVE: I can't claim to share your
embarrassing enthusiasm.
MR. AKIN: The sidewalk opened up. Just
like that!
(Surprised, he shakes his head)
It'll have to be repaired.
EXECUTIVE: And you're stuck, you're
saying!?
MR. AKIN: It's sort of like a flat tire.
EXECUTIVE: Has this ever happened
before?
MR. AKIN: I fell through the market once.
When I owned my own company.
EXECUTIVE: Just why do you suppose
this happens to you?
MR. AKIN: Well, things always happen to
me in three's.
Wait till next week. I'll reaHy go through
something!
I can't feel anything down there.
(He looks at his foot)
EXECUTIVE: And what am I supposed
to do?
MR. AKIN: I don't know.
EXECUTIVE: Well, I'm damn sure 1 don't!
MR. AKIN: Can we telephone somebody?
EXECUTIVE: Who, pray tell?
MR. AKIN: A lawyer, or something. I want
to get out!
EXECUTIVE: And what the hell do you
think I am? I'm a lawyer. I'm a law firm!
(He points out the skyscraper. But he is
now embarrassed: he has spoken loudly.
The CROWD stares at him)
I wish we could go somewhere and have
this out. But you have to do this in front
of everybody, just to embarrass me. Do
you think you're in a privileged position?
Hub? Is that it? ... Look what it does to
me:
(He includes the CROWD in a gesture)
I can't blow up since you have to pick on
a crowd like this.
You seem under the incredible impression
you can just do this and nothing will
happen. I can't have you in my employ-
ment any more. You're through working
forme!
Do you know what will come of this?
(He points to the camera)
He's going to develop this film-he's
going to print the film with your mug all
over it so everyone can have a good gas.
MR. AKIN: I'm aching!
EXECUTIVE: Will you lower your goddam
voice!
Now, quite calmly: you're through. You'll
have to find work elsewhere. I'll tell your
mother. I don't know what you're going to
do. I wouldn't want to be in your shoes.
My God, you've made a monkey out of
me!
(He looks at the CROWD: then hoarsely
to MR. AKIN)
Will you have the common decency to
smile while I leave?
(He departs through the CROWD)
MR. AKIN: But ... Daddy ... ?


MR. AKIN wearily lifts the newspaper. He
folds pages, coming to stop on the
"WANT ADS." Meanwhile, the CROWD:
CROWD: Daddy angry with you?
Why don't you do something?
You gonna just ... stick it out?
You know, we're going to be late for work.
So why doesn't he hurry up?
Maybe he'll scream. Or get bloody. Then
we can all go.
Why doesn't he jump?
(Chanting)
Jump! Jump! Jump! Jump! Jump!
SOUND: of drills humming in the distance.
MR. AKIN looks up. He strains his eyes.
A smile flickers. Construction workers are
drilling, a block and a half distant.
MR. AKIN looks at the CROWD, still chant-
ing. He reaches into his back pocket and
extracts a wallet. The CROWD quiets.
MR. AKIN withdraws a dollar bill.
MR. AKIN (Excited): Guess what? ... I
mean, I've just noticed a construction
group--you see? Over there? They've got
drills. Now I'll give a dollar to whoever
will run over and ask the guys if they
can't come get me out.
As MR. AKIN offers the dollar to several
faces, the CROWD looks away.
A YOUNG MAN steps forward, his hand on
the dollar bill.
YOUNG MAN: Here. I will.
MR. AKIN: Just ask them if they'll bring
their drills over. Will you?
MR. AKIN gives him the dollar. The YOUNG
MAN turns about and walks through the
CROWD in the direction of the workers.
The camera follows until he is half a block
away.
MR. AKIN: grim, anxious. Pause. His ex-
pression turns ironic.
The YOUNG MAN is running, turning down
a side street. He disappears.
MR. AKIN (Almost to himself): Stop, thief,
stop.
(He looks to the left. To the right. He
bends down and tears at his sock. It
comes off easily. He picks up his hat from
the sidewalk, brushes it. Pause. He extends
it, upside down)
Anyone want a look? Anyone want to look
at my foot? It costs one quarter.
No takers? For twenty-five cents a look ...
a look at a freak.
Nobody?
An old, bald man steps forward.
JEW: A nickel.
MR. AKIN: A quarter. Just a quarter to see
my foot.
MR. AKIN(Pause):Twentyceats. Two
dimes ... or whatever.
MR. AKIN: Fifteen cents.
JEW: A dime.
Pause. Then MR. AKIN extends his hat
further. The JEW approaches. He digs into
his pants pocket, removing a fistful of
change. He searches out a dime, devotes
it to the Cause. He stoops to his knees,
inches closer, and looks at the foot. Pause.
He turns back an awful face.
JEW: What a stink! I should oilly have
such aromas!
Mister, something's eating you!
(To the CROWD)
Three toes! Count 'em: three toes the guy's
got missing!
The CROWD starts talking, aroused. Peoplt
press in on MR. AKIN, jostle for position,
bend down to check it out. MR. AKIN takes
the dime from his hat, pockets it, stares
blankly out.
CROWD: Christ! You can see the toes dis-
appear right before your eyes.
What's doing it?
Can't tell. I don't see anything .. Does any-
body?
Not me.
How many toes does he have now?
About half of one.
But that's going quick.
Well, keep watching. Probably all of
him is going in a while.


It must be termites. Is it termites?
Here, Jet the others get a chance, huh?
Don't hog!
Better hurry!
Wt:ll, move!
That's it! He just got the bone. I don't
guess you can walk on something like that.
No, it ain't substantial.
I can't take the smell no more.
The CROWD draws back.
MR. AKIN looks off, through glass eyes,
darkly.
A FRUIT VENDOR is watching him,
casually leaning on his wares. He picks
up an apple, bounces it, and approaches
MR. AKIN, the CROWD letting him through.
PltUIT VENDOR: Did you have breakfast?
MR. AKIN (Dazed): Toast ... coffee ...
PltUITVENDOR: Would you like an apple?
MR. AKIN: An apple?
(He looks at it; his voice nearly breaks)
Yes.
PltUIT VENDOR (Merely palming the apple.
Pause. He points to MR. AKIN'S foot):
Someone else didn't have breakfast either.
(The CROWD titters)
You must taste very good.
(The CROWD laughs)
You look like you taste good.
lHis lips wet)
Do you taste good?
Gimme your dime!
You want my apple? Gimme your dime.
(MR. AKIN shakes, sweats. He takes the
dime from his pocket and hands it to th~
FRUIT VENDOR. Pause)
Open your mouth.
(Pause; hysterically)
OPEN YOUR MOUTH!
The FRUIT VENDOR places the apple in
MR. AKIN'S mouth, then walks away. The
CROWD is smiling. MR. AKIN is motionless.
Two MEN approach MR. AKIN. MAN #1 taps
him on the shoulder.
MAN #1: Your hands are free, you know.
MR. AKIN (Slowly, he brings his hand up
and removes the apple): Thank you.
Is ... Is my foot still there?
MAN lr2 (He bends down to look at the
foot. Then he looks up):There's still a
stump.
MR. AKIN: Well, that's something, isn't it!
Will you help me?
MAN #1: We have to go to work.
MR. AKIN: Oh, I can wait. I've waited.
Mterwork?
MAN #1: We have to go home.
MR. AKIN: Can anyone help me?
MAN # 1: How can anyone help you?
MR. AKIN: By going to the construction
gang.
MAN # 1: But they have to work.
MR. AKIN: Then, after work?
MAN # 1: They have to go home.
MAN #2: Besides, they're union men.
They're not allowed to branch out.
MR. AKIN: Couldn't a policeman be told?
MAN #1: What could a policeman do?
MR. AKIN: Get someone to dig me out,
men with drills.
MAN # 1: You tell a policeman and they
take down your name so they can call you
a lot of dirty things. And they take down
your address so they can sue you.
MAN #2: Besides, aren't they union men?
MR. AKIN: Well, what about firemen?
MAN# 1: Oh, come on! Firemen don't have
drills. They have hoses. And hoses don't
work in sidewalks. No, only the drillers
have drills.
MR. AKIN: And they're union men.
Then ... Oh, what chance have I?
FRUIT VENDOR (Leaning on his wares,
calling out): Hey! How can you guys stick
by him? Sweaty and smelly all over. I get
him from here. It's too much. You
shouldn't do nothing. Forget it.
MAN #1: Sorry.
MR. AKIN: That's alright. You can't help.
MAN ~1 (Turning to MAN #2): Come on.
MR. AKIN: Maybe next time, huh?
MAN ~tl: Yeah. Be seeing you.
The two MEN exit through the CROWD.
And the CROWD itself begins to disperse,
looking at timepieces. The FRUIT VENDOR
indolently pushes away his wagon. Pause.
MR. AKIN:
(Looking up)
Why? ... Why? ...
The camera looks up at the skyscraper.
Then down at MR. AKIN's foot. Pause.
MR. AKIN clenches his fists-though one
hand still grips the apple. He starts breath-
ing heavily. Pause. He bends his knees.
Gritting his teeth, he pushes up as violen.tly
as possible. Then a scream. Quick breath-
ing, finally slowing. A big weary sigh.
MR. AKIN: If only this were! Then I could
leave the picture.
(Pause. He again sets himself)
Take up thy foot and WALK!
On "'walk" he pushes up. Again and again
he tries. A final, sustained, quivering, ex-
travagant effort, ending in a cracked groan.
He falls, the apple drops ... one hears
clearly the sound of a bone breaking,
crunching. Long pause. MR. AKIN slowly
rights himself, sitting now. Pause. He picks
up the apple.
SOUND: of a subway train rumbling heavily
beneath the sidewalk.
The camera leaves MR. AKIN alone with his
apple. As it backs off, further and further,
MR. AKIN takes up his newspaper. Here-
moves the center section, tucks it into his
collar as a bib, polishes the apple on his
trousers . .. and only then beRins to eat.
Into a dissolve.



**Harry Berger at Yale**
**Author: Dan Yergin**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
161 The New Journal! November 26, 1967 
continued from page 2 
of the administrative forces are for 
immediate visibility," he says, "but I want 
to see the formal program emerge out of 
informal programs. I'm against instant 
experimentation. It tends to play down the 
guy who's really good and is committed to 
a certain thing. My value is primarily at 
the level of teaching poems." 

A noisy fight over Pass/Fail dominated 
most of all the last year at Santa Cruz. 
Berger opposed that system because he 
feels it allows sloppy academics to take an 
easy way and also because Santa Cruz per-
mits secret evaluations in locked files. 

Berger himself is engaged in a number 
of projects. He hopes to finish writing a 
book on Edmund Spenser by the end of 
the year. In the meanwhile, he bas also 
become interested in the theatrical 
mediom, in the different relations among 
actors and characters and spectators that 
pushes the writer from the foreground. He 
wants to explore the theatrical experience 
as a model of human experience. His 
lecture on The Tempest grew out of his 
realization that Shakespeare's last plays do 
not seem to be made for the theater, that 
they seem even anti-theatrical. 

In addition, Berger is also working on 
two other sets of studies. The first has to do 
with period imagination, what makes the 
imagination of one time different from 
those that preceeded it. He's also doing a 
set of studies on archaism and revisionism, 
how writers relate to their predecessors. 

Maynard Mack's allegorical introduc-
tion of Berger at the lecture, which had 
moved from the Graduate School to the 
Law School auditorium to accommodate 
the large turn-out, was graceful and 
affecting but emphasized Berger as the 
ingenuously brash young man. This, how-
ever, no longer fits Berger. He's now a 
senior man and one of the main movers in 
a new department at a campus which soon 
could be one of the most exciting in the 
nation. 

Berger was at Yale for three days. In 
some ways, it was clear, he missed Yale; it 
was also clear, from the steady flow of 
visits, phone calls and invitations, that a lot 
of people miss Harry Berger. They wanted 
to see him, to ask him what he's doing. Ber-
ger came up to New Haven from the 
University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill, where he's spending a semester's 
leave from Santa Cruz. He teaches one 
course at Chapel Hill, but he spends 
much of his time sitting in the backyard, 
reading Edmund Spencer under the warm 
sun. 
-DanYergin 


**Harvard and the Dow Chemical Company**
**Author: Our Harvard Correspondent**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

Harvard 
Cambridge--
Each September, just before classes begin 
at Harvard, the entering freshman class 
congregates in Sanders Theatre to be 
officially welcomed by President Nathan 
M. Pusey, and to hear Dean of Freshmen 
von Stade remark that the entire class will 
not be assembled again until its commence-
ment, four years away. He could ac-
curately add that President Pusey's 
welcome will probably be the last that 
the freshmen will hear or see of him 
during those four years. 

Dr. Pusey is not a charismatic man. 
He is not running for anything: his 
speeches are dry and businesslike, and 
seem to reflect his interpretation of his 
job, which is to keep the University grow-
ing, the money coming in, and the 
atmosphere quiet and untroubled. Under-
graduates think of him, when at all, as 
the grey embodiment of the business aspect 
of Harvard's operations, and a small 
group of students has until recently main-
tained that Dr. Pusey's invisibility was 
not apparent but real, that he was merely 
an abstract administrative contrivance. 

But on October 25th of this year, a 
group of Harvard and Radcliffe students 
and teaching·fellows sat in front of a 
doorway in the Chemistry Department's 
Mallinckrodt Hall to protest the war in 
Vietnam, napalm, and what they said was 
Harvard's implicit support of both. The 
occasion of the demonstration was the 
arrival of a recruiter from the Dow 
Chemical Company, suppliers of napalm 
to the U.S. Department of Defense. The 
.demonstrators blocked the entrance to 
the room where the recruiter was attempt-
ing to hold interviews, prevented students 
from seeing him, and refused to allow 
him to leave for about seven hours. The 
administration was horrified, and six days 
later President Pusey emerged to articulate 
its position on the demonstration. 

Pusey's statement was read to the press 
at the end of a two-hour faculty meeting 
on October 31 which had approved the 
administration's recommendation to place 
seventy-four of the demonstrators on 
disciplinary probation. The statement was 
brief, serious, and firm. It emphasized 
that the disciplinary action just taken was 
entirely non-political, and based solely 
on the unacceptable tactics used by the 
de~onstrators. These tactics, Pusey as-
serted, were indecent and repugnant to a 
civilized society. Peaceful political expres-
sion was permitted and even encouraged 
at Harvard, but no obstructionist or 
violent demonstration would be tolerated 
in the future. 

That seemed for a moment to take care 
of the Dow incident. The punishment, 
although rather arbitrarily allocated 
among the three hundred demonstrators, 
was generally considered moderate, and 
was accepted without significant protest. 
Thus the unfinished business of Mallinc-
krodt was settled, and President Pusey's 
statement seemed to set clear and reason-
able guidelines for the handling of any 
future incidents. Franklin Ford, Dean of 
the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, com-
pared the Dow denouement to the evacua-
tion of Dunkirk, and advised the Harvard 
community to feel relief rather than 
jubilation at the outcome. The Boston 
papers concluded a week of lurid coverage 
with the glum concession that "life is 
getting back to normal on the Harvard 
campus." 

In one sense, the Dow demonstration 
followed the pattern of last November's 
McNamara incident-a sudden, apparent-
ly spontaneous action by a comparatively 
small number of students, followed by 
weeks of discussion and analysis. But the 
uproar that followed the beseiging of 
Secretary McNamara's car was concerned 
with a question of manners. Everyone is 
sure that the Dow demonstration has 
raised more fundamental questions, al-
though there is some confusion on what 
those questions are. 

On the administration side, there is a. 
renewed fascination with civil liberties, 
now enlarged to include a "right of recruit 
ment" which must not in a free society be 
withheld for non-political groups such 
as Dow, the Armed Forces and the CIA. 
This argument of ~oral principle is collf 
plemented by a pragmatic one: if Harvard 
ceased to struggle for freedom of speech 
and movement, the forces of right-wing 
reaction would find it easier to curb the 
freedom of those to the left of the govem 
ment. To the repeated urgings of anti-wz 
activists that the University take a public 
stand against the war in Vietnam, the 
administration replies with. arguments 
about the educational necessity of neu-
trality in complex matters of public poliC)' 
The proper function of the university, 
according to this view, is to facilitate the 
free exchange of ideas, rather than to act 
as a political pressure group. 

The reaction of Harvard's radicals to 
these arguments is to assert that Harvard'! 
actual social function has very little to 
do with the free exchange of ideas, and 
a great deal to do with the government ani 
with the war. On the broadest level, the 
American university is seen as an essentia 
continued on page II


**A Dark of the Moon Production Review**
**Author: James K. Folsom**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
praise for melding the diverse elements of 
Dark of the Moon into a unified whole 
which can be talked about as such. Indeed 
it is only on ground of interpretation that 
we can take any legitimate exception to 
this almost flawlessly executed production. 
Dark of the Moon seems to ask a simple 
question of its director: is it primarily a 
tragic play with pronounced comic ele-
ments or just the reverse? Dark of the 
Moon is conventionally produced as a 
tragedy. Mr. Starnes has taken the far 
more difficult course of producing the 
play as a dark comedy, and of contrasting 
its humorous elements with the somber 
background of witchcraft, of curse and 
retribution, of death, sexual license and 
reliJious bigotry aginst which the action 
unfolds. This interpretation, however, has 
the built-in danger that the play will give 
the impression not so much of humor as 
of frivolity. And indeed this is a short-
CO.Jl)ing of the present production, in which 
the unsophisticated mountain folk have an 
unhappy way of deteriorating into mind-
less hicks. Mr. Starnes' attempt to evoke a 
simple primitive world too often de-
teriorates into an unintential and some-
what condescending parody of a tragedy 
in which the actors laugh at the characters 
they portray and nobody takes the thing 
very seriously. 


The first act is primarily at fault; for 
here Mr. Starnes bas delineated his char-
acters in broad strokes, an attempt at bold 
caracterization with the unfortunate side 
effect of obscuring the subtle analogies 
between acts one and two. The unalerted 
playgoer will fail to see, for example, that 
the pivotal scene at the hoedown in act 
one is an almost exact-if unexpected-
foreshadowing of the scene at the revival 
meeting in the second act which culminates 
in the ritual rape that precipitates the final 
tragedy. And for all Mr. Starnes' fascina-
tion with choral speech and gestures in 
unison he does not sufficiently emphasize 
t?e fact that the square dance is itself a 
ntua), a profane version, as it were, of the 
sacred ritual of the religious revival. 


Ultimately the question of whether the 
.play is a comedy or a tragedy is misleading. 
DGT/c of the Moon turns out to be primarily 
a study in ironic perceptions, of how the 
COmplexity of human experience evades 
all attempts at simple explanation. The 
world of the play is defined in terms of 
Various stereotypes of the range of human 
~havior, running from hoedown tore-
VIVal meeting, out of which the various 
characters manufacture inadequate ex-
planations of their own motivations and 
the meaning of their own lives. 


Indeed, the plot of Dark of the Moon 
IS ttself a descant on a commonplace, the 
story of the demon lover, one of the 
darkest of romantic stereotypes. Ostensibly 
DGT/c of the Moon tells of the plight of 
~arbara Allen, an innocent maiden who 
~ attacked and raped by a witch, who 
ter marries him and bears his child, 
and who is ultimately reclaimed by means 
of the simple faith of good country people. 
The truth, it transpires, is not so simple, 
nor are the country people so good. Both 
the mountain girl and the witch boy, who 
are the only characters in the play able 
to tran.cend the limitations of their re-
worlds. are destroyed by the 
~ 
whose conventions they have 


ODe may fault this present production of 
~of 
the M oon, then, for its failure to 
ev 
that ambiguous mood which gives 
~play much of its emotional charge. 
l1 l'erbaps too straightforward in its 
conception; but in execution this Dramat 
production merits the highest praise. It is 
skillful without pretentiousness and, best 
of all, allows us to focus our attention 
undividedly upon the play. 
-James K. Folsom 
Asst. Professor of English 
Yale


**Yale: November 8th**
**Author: Jerry Bruck**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

On Wednesday, November 8, a great deal 
happened, or seemed to happen. First a 
nineteen year old from Coventry, Con-
necticut, who had enlisted in the U.S. 
Army and then decided that the Vietnam 
war, and killing in general, was wrong, 
showed up for orders at the Connecticut 
Induction Center on Chapel Street. He bad 
made his views known to local draft 
protestors, and twenty people with signs 
showed up to encourage him to refuse 
induction. At the end of the day here-
ceived a government escort from the 
Center to a bus bound for Fort Dix, New 
Jersey, after making a "V" sign to the 
shivering demonstrators. 


That same afternoon, thirty members of 
the Yale SDS picketed at 143 Elm Street. 
where Yale has its career advisory offices 
and where a CIA representative was pre-
paring to interview Yalemen seeking 
careers in the Agency. As applicants were 
hustled out a backdoor by the agent to a 
downtown office, the pickets were barred 
from the building on instructions from 
Assistant Dean of Yale College Donald 
Akenson. SDS cairman Karl Klare said 
that the hastily called demonstration was 
just the start of a challenge to University 
recruitment policy. Akenson defended 
the right of recruiters to recruit, but said 
that Yale had no formal policy in this 
regard and that the demonstration bad 
raised a point "that ought to be clarified, 
and which we intend to clarify." 


That night, Robert Welch debated 
Norman Thomas on whether or not we 
must negotiate withdrawal from Vietnam, 
under the auspices of the Yale Political 
Union. The debate had been billed by the 
P. U. as likely to be Thomas' last, and the 
Law School Auditorium was jammed with 
people come to watch. Thomas said that 
American involvement in Vietnam was 
helping Communism, that the war was 
everlastingly destructive of Vietnam, that 
it was unjustified by any of the canons of 
a just war, that it was dangerous and 
stupid. Welch said that we had to stay 
and win since we were there, though 
getting there was a mistake, part of a 
world-wide Russian-American Communist 
conspiracy that bad preplaoned what is 
happening now in Vietnam as far back as 
1952. He said we could win "overnight" 
if someone "took the wraps off our boys," 
let them go all-out. 
It was a silly sort of debate, cleverly 
staged for bored Yale folk, pre-ordained 
to demonstrate nothing. 


Meanwhile, Donovan was signing at 
Woolsey Hall, and over in SSS the Dump 
Johnson movement was trying to get 
underway. Allard K. Lowenstein, 1954L, 
who is vice-president of the ADA and 
chairman of the Conference of Concerned 
Democrats, which wants to dump LBJ, 
had come to town, and convinced anum-
ber of people that defeating Johnson in the 
primaries was possible, and ~e ~ 
productive step toward negouatmg the 
United States out of Vietnam. The meet-
ing heard Vincent Scully analyze the 
President, who was "dragging the United 
States with him into the very shades of 
hell." Ezra Stiles Master Richard Sewall 
said he had greeted news of the move-
ment's inception as "a burst of light on a 
dark landscape," and Lowenstein pre-
sented his arguments. 


The star speaker, former Connecticut 
Congressman Frank Kowalski, was saved 
for last, and spoke to a small and dwin-
dling audience in the auditorium. The 
former army colonel began eloquently, 
describing bow as the first military gov-
ernor of Hiroshima be had stood amongst 
the ruins of the city "and saw the charred 
hell ... and I made up my mind that I 
would fight for peace for the rest of my 
life." Then he rambled off into one thing 
after another, talking at time tragically, 
at others "of the silly hide-and-seek games 
in South Vietnam, where we are losing 
so many lives .... " 


Thought he thought that the war was 
wrong and that the U.S. ought to leave 
"as soon as possible," Kowalski didn't feel 
he could support defiance of the draft. 
After he had finished his speech and left 
the speaker's stand, he paused, walked to 
the side of the stage, and said in a shaken 
tone that be was leaving shortly for 
Washington, for his son was in the army 
and was on the point of leaving for Viet-
nam. The meeting was breaking up at that 
point, however, and hardly anyone heard 
him. 


The next day, a faculty petition was 
published in the Yale Daily News over 
more than 400 signatures. It was more 
strongly worded than the petition of last 
winter, which 462 faculty members had 
signed, but there was a certain absurdity 
in its call for President Johnson to "rise 
to his historical destiny," terminate the 
bombing of the North for good, and enter 
negotiations with the NLF towards "an 
honorable peace." 


A series of half-starts, confrontations 
with unclear outcomes, everything happen-
ing at once and an intellectual debate on 
the war that has remained roughly at the 
level of the first teach-ins while the war 
has grown by leaps and bounds. The 
malaise of a wide range of students op-
posed to our war in Vietnam has become 
increasingly pronounced, and since the 
range of tactics is so wide and the direct 
effects so unclear, they are starting with 
themselves, in the hope of building a 
movement, announcing either defiance-if-
necessary or total noncooperation and 
resistance now, to the draft. It seems to 
have been the Yale way to remain aloof 
from this sort of thing, but maybe it's 
changing now. 
-Jerry Bruck



Classifieds 
20¢ per word 
Ads may be mailed or telephoned to: 
William M. Burstein 
544 Yale Station 
New Haven, Conn. 06520 
116-2551 
Monday-Thursday 7-8 p.m. 
Ride wanted to Buffalo any weekend. 
777-8040 
For s.ale: 1962 Vespa. Fine condition; about 
7 SOO miles. S I 00. Call or write: Fulton, 54S 
Yale Station, 772-3347. 
Souabt: Grez. Calculus of Y ariants; Duthie 
Th~ Bad QUGrto of Haml~t; PoUard et al., 
Shal.:up~ar~·s Hand in th~ Play of "Sir 
Thomas Mor~." 772-3398 
Wanted: used Ecccta-Sbelf. Not more 2W 
wide, 4' hiafl. 865-3682 late. 
B. von K.: lch finde Irhe pbilosopbilche 
Stellunalaopeilig. 776-2SS I.


The very best in lifetime giftS at 
substantial savings, so start 
ChristmaS shopping now. 
Many striking new items in 
sterling, crystal, silverplate, 
stainless steel, and pewter. 
Gifts for weddings, showers, 
babies, anniversaries, bouse giftS, 
and every important event. 
Spedalizing in trophies, cable 
prizes, executive and business 
gifts. 
Sherwood Products Co. 
865 Chapel St. over Liggett's 
Take elevator to room 305 
or phone 787-3235


1:00AM and 
you're still studying 
Don't go to bed 
hungry, go to 
OL~S 


Open 24 hrs. a day 
1064 Chapel 
Lowest charges 
I o¢ per check 
No other charges 
Monthly statements 
General Bank 
and Trust 
Company 
Main office: 
I 55 Church Street, New Haven 
Branches: 
I 3 7 5 Whalley Avenue 
3030 Whitney Avenue 
(Mt.<:Jlr~l) 

