Publication date: March 17, 1968
Volume: one
Issue number: ten

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editor: Daniel H. Yergin
- Publisher: Peter Yaeger
- Executive Editor: Jeffrey Pollock
- Designer: Ronald Gross
- Photography Editor: Herman Hong
- Advertising Manager: Jeffrey Denner
- Associate Editors: Susan Braudy, Jonathan Lear
- Circulation Manager: Jean-Pierre Jordan
- Copy Editor: Alan Wachtel
- Classifieds: William M. Burstein
- Contributing Editors: Jonathan Aaron, Michael Lerner, Steven Weisman
- Staff: John Boak, Paul Bennett, Peter M. C. Choy, Jennifer Josephy, Larry Lasker, Christopher Little, Howard Newman, Barney Rubin, Warner Wada
- Advertising: Joe Ambash, Bill Gerber, Jeffrey Harrison, Jon Hoffman, John Jeffries, Chris Moffit, Howie Newman, Will Rhodes, Edmund Robinson, Roger Sametz, Sam Sutherland, Steve Weise, Jeff Wheelright, Rick Wilson


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Robert Penn Warren - Susan Broudy
- AI LaValley in jail 
- Summer violence: black and white - Austin Clarke 
- Letters: reply to Biafra, Air War 
- In Comment: New Haven McCarthy campaign takes on Barbieri's "many, many segments," Ronald Steel talks about the ideology of anti-communism, hard-nosed demonstrators turn out for the Peace March, and the Dramat's mixed-media Rhinoceros gets a mixed review.


**Title: New Haven McCarthy**
**Author:  (Unnamed)**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

McCarthy 
Immediately following the naming of the 
Democratic Town Committee's slate of 
delegates to the June 22 state convention, 
Town Chairman Arthur Barbieri lauded 
the committee's unanimous support of 
President Johnson and stated that the 
delegates represented the "many, many 
segments of the city's Democratic or-
ganization." 

When Barbieri rebuffed attempts to have 
at least eight of New Raven's 34 dele-
gates to the state convention pledged to 
Senator Eugene McCarthy, he was run-
ning the risk of a primary fight which 
would strain personal and organizational 
relationships in the Democratic party. 
"If there is a contest," said Barbieri at 
the time, "I'll have my best foot forward." 

Barbieri's organization has not lost a 
primary fight since he has been Town 
Chairman, and has nipped many primary 
fights in the bud with the help of Con-
necticut's often-revised primary laws. 

Barbieri's pro-Johnson delegates are 
going to be a tough bunch to unseat in the 
April 9 primary. The party's slate includes 
Mayor Richard Lee, his long-time sup-
porter and ambassador-at-large Demo-
cratic National Committeeman John 
Golden, and a host of office holders and 
organization Negroes. 

These "many, many segments" of the 
local Democratic machine pale, however, 
in comparison to the pro-Johnson dele-
gates put forward by the party in H artford. 
On the Hartford ticket are Governor John 
Dempsey, party leader John Bailey and 
Senator Abraham Ribicoff, among others. 

As a long time observer of the political 
situation in Connecticut put it, the party 
has everything on the line in the big city 
primaries. If many of the seventeen or 
so primaries in Connecticut are lost or if 
the unit rule binding delegates to the 
national Democratic convention in Chi-
cago is dented by even one McCarthy 
delegate, the whole Democratic party 
organization in Connecticut would fall 
under a shadow and perhaps be eventually 
repudiated by reformers within the party. 

At its March 5 open convention the 
New Haven McCarthy group put forth 34 
delegates from the community of New 
Haven as well as from the university. 
Prominent among the university sup-
porters are Professors James Tobin and 
John Blum, as well as Chester Kerr. While 
much of the money, help and initial en-
thusiasm naturally emanated from Yale, 
the local campaign to unseat the town 
committee's delegates will quickly be for-
gotten and may even prove a liability in 
terms of state and national policy if the 
rank and file Democratic voters in the city 
do not consider a vote for McCarthy a 
realistic alternative. 

Consequently, significant efforts have 
been made to obtain a commitment from 
prominent individuals and liberally 
oriented groups in the city to join in the 
McCarthy campaign. 

Among the McCarthy delegates are 
Richard Belford, former chairman of the 
New Haven Commission on Equal Oppor-
tunities and the Reverend Robert Fors-
berg, leader of a church coalition known 
as the W~der City Parish. 

Support has also come from former 
members of the city's Democratic organi-
zation who don't feel comfortable about 
either the local or the national party situ-
ation. A delegate on the McCarthy slate, 
Ann Mitchell, was formerly Democratic 
party chairlady for the city's 21st ward. 

Nevertheless, most of the politically 
oriented social action groups in the city of 
New Haven have not seen the McCarthy 
campaign as the place to fight the good 
fight against city hall and the party. Over-
tures to these groups from the under-
financed and somewhat disorganized Mc-
Carthy Democrats have drawn outright 
rejections as well as offers for covert help 
and canvassing assistance with caveats 
that no mention of the names of the 
organizations be made. 

Some black groups in the city have re-
strained from entering the McCarthy fight 
either because of their funding depend-
ency on Community Progress, Inc., or 
because they are busy pursuing the fragile 
illusion of a statewide bloc of black 
voters. 

If the majority of more than 20,000 
registered Democrats in this city find a 
focus for their discontent in the promise 
McCarthy and the local McCarthy cam-
paigners offer, the fight can be won. To 
staff the public information office at the 
comer of Church and Elm as well as to 
drive voters to the polls, babysit, etc., call 
777-5381 or 562-3019 for information. 


**Title: Steel**
**Author: Fred Hyde**

Steel 
One of the men Lyndon Johnson drafted 
to mediate the Dominican Republic crisis 
in 1965 was Ellsworth Bunker, now our 
ambassador to Vietnam. Bunker is the 
sort of Yale-spawned public servant who 
responds to duty, pragmatically analyzes a 
situation and shoulders his responsibility 
without so much as a groan. In this case, 
Bunker also happened to be a director of 
a company that is one of the largest owners 
of sugar lallVs in the Dominican Republic. 

It's such curious coincidences as this, 
barely audible now next to the guns of 
Vietnam, that make one start to ask if 
Vietnam is really such a fluke, and that at 
the same time bring into focus a number 
of questions about American foreign 
policy. How much does the US confuse 
the interests of American corporations 
with the national interest? What are the 
limits of American intervention? Are all 
areas of the world equally crucial to the 
national security? 

One individual actively asking these 
questions is Ronald Steel, who was at Yale 
for a week in February as a visiting fellow 
in Jonathan Edwards College. Steel is 
almost unique in occupation. He is a 
political writer whose perceptive and fresh 
insights into foreign policy have gained 
increased attention. Yet Steel belongs to 
no university, institute, magazine, govern-
ment agency or politician's brood. He's 
freelance and self-supporting. 

Steel, who graduated from North-
western and holds a master's degree in 
political economy from Harvard, spent 
a year in the foreign service before de-
ciding that bureaucracy was not for him. 
He left his assignment in Cyprus for New 
York, where the only writing job he could 
find was with a high school current 
affairs magazine. While with that maga-
zine, he wrote a book review which 
was accepted by The New Republic. 

He began writing freelance full time, 
with his articles appearing in a wide 
variety of periodicals. Some of the best 
have recently appeared in The New York 
Review of Books, and he will soon be 
writing a series of articles for The New 
American Review. Steel also spent a year 
as a Congressional fellow of the American 
Political Science Association, including 
a six-month stint with Senator Fulbright. 

Steel's first book, End of Alliance, dem-
onstrates the obsolescence of the NATO 
alliance and the archaic thinking behind 
the idea of an "Atlantic community." Pax 
Americana, which appeared last year, 
deals with the broader problems of Amer-
ica's role as a global power. These prob-
lems were also at the center of the seminars 
Steel led in Jonathan Edwards. 

"America's foreign policy," Steel said 
in an interview while at Yale, "has become 
self-defeating. It's hung up on its own 
ideology of anti-communism, and bas led 
us into involvements not necessary for our 
own security or national interests or even 
for the benefit of the people we're trying 
to help. 

"This counter-ideology of anti-com-
munism has also made for an evasion of 
the real problems of American society. 
People aren't free in this country. We ex-
ternalize our own problems and are now 
beginning to pay the price." 

Steel said that American intervention-
ism has been based on premises that 
seemed reasonable two decades ago 
(although the factual basis of those 
premises is increasingly open to debate). 
"But certainly," he added, "they're no 
longer valid today. And our foreign policy 
today is conducted by people whose atti-
tudes were formed in the late 1940's and 
who haven't changed." 

Some who agree with most of Steel's 
observations would change his emphasis 
on an ideology of anti-communism and 
instead point to an American preoccupa-
tion with stability and the status quo and 
a corresponding uncertainty when results 
are not predictable. 

One example that bolsters Steel's con-
tions, however, is the US reaction to 
Cuba. Steel was in Cuba in January, as a 
journalist covering the Cultural Congress. 
"I went not knowing what to expect," 
said Steel. "I had some sympathy with the 
aims of the Revolution, but I probably 
expected to find a revolution betrayed, a 
party apparatus imposed on a society, with 
Soviet imperialism substituted for Amer-
ican imperialism-that it would be like 
Eastern Europe, but with a sunny climate. 

"It was quite different. There was a 
tremendous excitement and idealism that 
reminded me of the kibbutz mentality of 
Israel. The common danger was a cohe.'live 
element. Much was phrased in the tra-
ditiOnal Marxist rhetoric, but that didn't 
make it any less passionate or convincing. 
People seemed to actively like the gov-
ernment. This is true of the young people, 
I must add. Anybody over 35 finds it very 
difficult to adjust to life in Cuba today." 


**Title: Robert Penn Warren**
**Author: Susan Braudy**
**Page number(s): 3-6**

Robert Penn Warren 
Nothing we had · 
Nothing we were 
Is lost 
All is redeemed 
In knowledge. 
Brother To Dragons 
"Every man is a novelist," says the soft 
husky Southern ·voice. The words tumble 
by. "His hero is himself. His novel is his 
life. He seeks patterns in his life, his 
novel." 

Robert Penn Warren looks over steel-
rimmed reading glasses from face to face 
around the seminar table. His next sen-
tence is emphatic, pitched slightly higher. 
"We look into our past to find out who we 
are." 

Warren checks his gold pocket watch 
on the table in front of him. He pulls off 
his glasses and pushes his chair back from 
the table. The class is over. His creative 
writing students are silent. Finally they 
gather their books and start walking out 
of the seminar room in Silliman College. 
One student whispers, "I could listen to 
him talk for days. I wish he would always 
talk, not read." 

A student walks up to Warren and 
perches on the table by his lecture notes. 
He has fallen behind in the short story he 
is writing. Warren offers him extra time. 
The student says be would rather flunk 
than do less than his best. 
"It wouldn't be fair to you to have to 
read it, and if wouldn't be worth it to me 
to rush through it." 

Warren smiles ironically. "You, sir, are 
an idealist. I am not. I will be glad to read 
anything you write. Writing is a process 
of learning." 

"Red" Warren describes his face as 
typically Scotch-Irish, with a strong jaw-
bone and malarial hollows in his cheeks. 
He wears a tweed jacket, low boots, laced 
and brown, and blue or checked shirts. 
When be reaches for his watch and chain 
at the beginning of class, navy blue sus-
penders stretch over a strong chest. 

He bas the flushed, translucent skin of 
a red-haired man. His hair is thinning, 
short and wavy. Its faded brown hints at 
the red that gave him his nickname. His 
eyes are small, blue, deepset; the lids are 
hooded. His lips are narrow, turned in on 
themselves, speaking of struggles on 
internal landscapes. 

He still looks like his early book jacket 
pictures, though the years have added new 
texture to his face. In repose Warren looks 
grim, thoughtful. A reporter once wrote 
that Warren's expression for photograph-
ers suggests a farmer about to throw you 
off his land. But the downward pull of his 
mouth seems to be a self-conscious ironic 
chuckle after a good laugh. He looks 
remote until he speaks. But then you feel 
his force and warmth. You feel it even 
more when exposed to his streak pf pun-
gent, colloquial humor. He surprises you 
with his joy when he smiles. 

The best contemporary American writer 
of both prose and poetry, Warren is even 
more expressive when he tells a story 
aloud. His voice changes pitch, pauses 
rhythmically or over-syllabizes at the end 
of a phrase in a rich Southern way. Here-
peats a phrase or two for emphasis or for 
pleasure. Often he speaks so fast that 
phrases seem like one word. But more 
This article is appearing simultaneously in 
the Yale Alumni Magazine. 
often his slow cadences hypnotize. 

Robert Penn Warren defines himself 
and his times thro\lgh history. For him 
life is not an eternal present with a future. 
He uses his past to inform and enrich his 
present as a Southerner, a man and an· 
artist. And it is the world of his boyhood 
that has shaped his writer's imagination 
and his sense of history. 

Warren was born in Guthrie, Kentucky, 
in 1905. As a boy he explored his grand-
father's rundown tobacco farm and the 
caves and woods around it. Warren writes 
about the world of his childhood, of his 
grandfather, Gabriel Telemachus Penn, an 
old man, shrunken, with a pointed, clipped 
gray beard. He wore blue jeans which 
hung loose from blue suspenders. To the 
young boy, he looked like General Lee 
without his white horse. 

Tlie old man brought alive the Civil 
War and its impact for the boy. Warren's 
grandfather thought slavery was a bad 
thing, and he did not want to see the 
country divided. But when war came he 
went with his own. 

Mornings, years later, he sat on his chair 
under a cedar tree with a book and his 
pipe. He told his grandson about riding in 
the cavalry with General Nathan Bedford 
Forrest. He told of fighting in winter 
woods and escaping by wading through 
cold rivers. 

"And how dead m.en looked in the river 
bottoms in winter, and I lay on my back 
on the grass, looking up in the thick cedar 
limbs, and I thought how it was to be 
dead." 

Once during the war, Warren's grand-
father headed a command to hunt bush-
wackers in Tennessee. After they caught 
them, the soldiers held brief, roadside 
court proceedings. Then they hanged 
them. When the war was over, families of 
the bushwackers got murder indictments 
against the Confederate troops in Tennes-
see. So after the war, Warren's grandfather 
never returnd to Tennessee, but settled 
in Kentucky. 

"Guerrilla-what's that?" I said. 
"Bushwackers, we called 'em," he said. 
" Were they on the Yankee side?" 
"Son, they didn't have a side. 
Just out to plunder and ride 
And hell-rake the pore countryside. 
Just out for themselves, so son ... 
"Time is short-hell, a rope is -
that's that." 

As his grandfather described the hangings, 
the boy's imagination re-created the young 
man who was now that shrunken old man 
with the pointed gray beard sitting under 
the cedar tree. 

Calmly then, out of the sky, 
Blotting the sun's blazing eye, 
He rode. He was large in the sky .... 
To the great saddle's sway he swung, 
N ot old now, not old now, but young, 
Great cavalry boots to the thigh .... 
The horseman does not look back, 
Blank-eyed he continues his track, 
Riding toward me there, 
Through the darkening air. 
The world is real. It is there. 
History and poetry also infl.uenced 
Warren early in life. Under the cedar tree, 
his grandfather not only told him stories of 
the Civil War, but recited Burns or Byron 
or read to him from Napoleon and His 
Marshals. And Warren was discovering 
history and literature for himself. At six, 
he read "Horatius at the Bridge," at nine 



**Lesson No. I in Practical Economics for diamond-minded students**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Lesson No. I in 
Practical Economics 
for diamond-minded 
students 
Most of the reason for the 
retail price of a diamond is 
the fact that this is the cus-
tomary procedure: jewelers 
buy from wholesalers. They 
pay high rentals for their 
stores. They own fancy 
fixtures. They have higher 
priced help than most other 
retailers. They pay a lot for 
insurance. They have an 
inventory-obsolescence 
problem. They spend a lot 
for advertising, accounting 
and other business ex-
penses. They need and de-
serve a high mark-up. They 
couldn't exist without it. 
But take us .We buy 
where the wholesaler buys. 
That can save up to% to 
begin w ith. No inventory. 
We sell from a catalogue o£ 
natural color photos. No 
overhead because we have 
no fancy store. No capital 
investment. No obsoles-
cence. No insurance. Noth-
ing but top quality at 
bottom prices. 
Campus representatives: 
Don Rhodes 
562-9415 
David Wickersham 
3055 E.S. 787-2553 
University 
Diamond Company


**Title: AI LaValley in Jail**
**Author: Susan Braudy and Daniel Yergin**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ly 
b 
) 
r's 
:s 
ng 
oli 
IS. 
t-
~ 
n 
ith 
r 
1-
13 
711be New Journal I March 17, 1968 
AI LaValley in jail: II All the 
routines you live by drop away 
very suddenly~ and the time 
really stops. There was no 
time. People ask~ did it go by 
slowly 
I did it go by fast. It just 
did not exist.~~ 

Over two thousand people participated in demonstra-
tions outside the Army Induction Center in Oakland, 
california, on December 18 and 19, 1967. The police, 
apparently having learned to do without rough tactics 
after the bloody demonstrations in October ("letter 
from Berkeley," The New Journal, October 29, 1967), 
were efficient and even anxious to avoid violence. 
Almost 300 people were arrested during the two days 
of demonstrations. 

Among those arrested on the first day was Albert 
LaValley, who had not been particularly politically 
ICtive during his ten years at Yale as a graduate 
ltudent and as an English teacher. last fall LaValley, 
whose book Carlyle and the Idea of the Moderns has 
)lilt been published by the Yale Press, went to teach 
at San Francisco State College. The following inter-
view Is the story of LaValley's experiences in the 
Ill-in and during his subsequent jail term. The story 
exists within the larger context of the discovery of an 
environment very different from the one LaValley had 
known at Yale. The interview was conducted over 
long-distance telephone In mid-January by Susan 
Braudy and Daniel Yergln. 

How did you first get Involved? 

How did I come to sit in at the Oakland Induction 
Center? This is difficult to trace. The first step here 
this winter was turning in my draft card. I turned in my 
draft card in early December. 

I read a letter to my class that I wrote to my draft 
board in which I expressed my feelings about the 
frustrations young people were facing. I wrote that 
nobody was paying attention to these things. 1 thought 
the government was alienating people who would be 
leaders tomorrow. And I said to the class that I was 
thinking about my own protest, about going fo jail, 
and some of them said, "Why don't you?" I pondered 
it for a while and then decided that I would go. 

I knew what the Oakland demonstration was-
there were signs up for that-but I didn't know 
anybody working on it. I then decided that I would 
have to go to some meetings. I wanted to find out what 
jail was like and how violent this thing was going to 
be. And I went down to--it was like going under-
ground-to this very, very sinister street, to a 
converted warehouse, where some people who had 
been in jail in October were having a meeting. We sat 
on the floor in a very pot-like atmosphere. These 
people struck me as much less shrill than the people 
up at State. They were rather ironic, and it was the 
first irony that I had seen out here. They had a sense 
of humor, and they seemed realistic. Yet they seemed 
committed to things. So I knew that I was with 
good people. 

There were all these older people, from all walks of 
life, which came as a surprise, and this was true in 
jail too. We had a vineyard owner from Modesta, a 
Quaker, who's been committed to these causes for a 
long while. We had several educators. We had a 
pacifist from the Forties, who runs the Walden School 
in Berkeley. We had a longshoreman-an M.A. from 
Stanford, but still a longshoreman. And we had two 
Unitarian ministers. 

At this tactics meeting in the warehouse run by the 
War Resistance League, we were learning purely 
non-violent tactics. At the meeting I realized that 
there are threats to face. Sometimes Hell's Angels 
motorcycle gangs come to muddy things up. In fact, 
the Angels did appear at a Be-In on Sunday before 
the Oakland demonstration. They beat several people 
up, and the police didn't Interfere. 

What did they teach you at the non-violence school? 

First we play-acted picketers and active hecklers, 
and this can be very real. I was surprised. My Eastern 
irony says that this kind of thing does not work-we 
are play-acting. But it does work, it did work. Old 
people got tackled, knocked down and kicked by 
young people. In fact, we all took our turns at 
getting knocked down and kicked. 

So after this practice morning se .. ion, 
waa Oakland next? 

Monday morning, the 18th of December, about six 
o'clock in the morning. There at the Oakland 
Induction Center, a large support group was walking 
around on the streets. I think nearly three hundred 
people were eventually arrested for civil disobedience 
and for not having their draft cards. 

I was in the first group arrested. I simply sat in a 
doorway at the Induction Center. It was a very strange 
feeling. It was raining, everything was wet. It was 
about six in the morning, and there I was sitting 
in a doorway. 

Did you walk up to the Induction Center by yourseH 
or in a group? 

People just gathered around there. It was extraor-
dinary to see how many people drove up from various 
places all alone, and, even in this public place, had 
a private sense of using this kind of protest for a 
private educational experience. Really remarkable. 
Many had not been very active in war resistance. At 
Yale they would be isolated people, I think. Here 
they have started doing things. That morning around 
the Induction Center, some were picketing. Those 
who were going to commit civil disobedience were 
asked to come over in front of the Center. 

You just sort of found yourself a place. I wanted to 
get it over with. So I simply sat in this doorway; then 
more people came to sit there, too. With about ten 
of us in the doorway, it got crowded. It got tense. They 
put up large boards inside the door. I didn't know 
whether they wanted to force the door open and push 
us out of the doorway, or whether they were simply 
protecting their door. Then several people who 
worked at the Induction Center came. They insisted 
on going to work. And they did trample over us. 

A girl on crutches was there with us. This made 
things a little difficult. Then a .group of inductees 
who were really up-tight arrived. We tried talking to 
them, but it didn't seem to work. One of them kept 
screaming, " There's psychiatric help for you people." 

Then a Marine came up. I don't know what his 
function was, but he looked very magnificent in his 
uniform. He was breathing very tensely. 

I was a little bewildered by the whole thing. As I 
was sitting there, a few of my students came by and 
shook my hand. It was very strange. Everybody said I 
looked rather innocent. I was just waiting for it to 
get over. And I was afraid something violent 
might happen. 

Then it happened. Just like on television. A man 
came up and said that he was the manager of the 
building, and that we had to move on or we would be 
arrested. And then the police came and did their 
little act with the bullhorn and took pictures and 
hauled us off. A few people did resist arrest. They 
went limp. 

And then came the Oakland jail? 

The police station, the courthouse and the jail are all 
part of one complex at Oakland. The first thing that 
hit me was the inhumanity of the process. It startles 
anybody who's arrested. The deeper I went into the 
experience, the more inhumane and sadistic people 
seemed, and the more contained by the system they 
were in. I had been at an English Department party 
at San Francisco State the night before, and that first 
day at Oakland I was very tired. They took us into a 
large room at the jail. They fingerprinted us five times. 
Our pictures were taken three times. Booking is 
pure bureaucracy, and here too the arbitrariness 
seemed evident. Some people had almost all their 
clothes taken away. I guess they had sympathy for 
me because of my back brace. They left not only my 
sweater, but my coat. I was the only person with a 
coat. I gave it to somebody else who was freezing. 

Then began two weird days without even a glimpse 
of daylight. There was some electric light, but we 
were in these dim, Kafkaesque yellow rooms. They all 
looked alike, and we w~re herded from one to 
another. The first day they took us to a room with a 
hundred beds, and I talked to a lot of people. Already 
you could see civilization springing up there. People 
were introducing themselves, making up games and 
welcoming new arrivals. Most people, we found out, 
had been arrested not for sitting in the doorway, 
but for sitting in lines in front of the buses carrying 
the inductees. 

The second day in jail at Oakland was more mind-
boggling. We could have gotten out on bail, of course, 
but we decided against it. And what stunned me 
again that day was the total inhumanity of the process. 
I hadn't e¥pected it to be this bad. They keep herding 
you from room to room, very small rooms. You don't 
know where you're going. lee Bond, a very level-
headed fellow from San Francisco State, began 
feeling Ill. So we told the guards, who said they would 
give him attention. But all they did was take him and 
throw him in another cell all alone. And they left him 
there. This was the first example of their punitive way 
of dealing with illnesses that continued much more 
disastrously later in the jail at Santa Rita. Their 
reasoning: If you're going to get sick, you don't get 
arrested, you don't go to jail. At one point they said, 
"Let the bastards die." 

The problem of crowding was less serious, but still 
striking. On the second day, for instance, they took 
twenty-five of us-no, fifty of us-into a tiny room, 
the anteroom to the courtroom, a really foul place. It 


--- Page 8 ---

81 The New Journal I March 17, 1968 
had only one toilet, and crap smeared all over the 
place, peeling walls, and things written all over it. 
Everybody had bad headaches from being herded 
from one of these close rooms to another all day long. 

This Is the Oakland City Jail? 

Yes, but then right outside where we were was this 
plush courtroom with great wood panels on the other 
side of the door. The judge was elected but everybody 
knew he was a Reagan man, and we kept hearing that 
the sentences were going to be very stiff. He wanted 
to give us a year's probation and fifteen days, but 
the lawyers had indicated that they were not going to 
take that. The judge was angry. He was determined 
to punish us. He sentenced people in groups of ten 
or twelve. He read the charges: we had tumultuously 
and offensively gathered and refused to disperse and 
things like that. There were several charges, and 
many of them were dropped. Finally, we were all 
sentenced for disturbing the peace. The judge gave 
twenty-day sentences to first offenders and forty-five 
days to those who were committing civil disobedience 
a second time. 

I was with Lee Bond on the bus that took us to the 
Santa Rita jail. You are put into a bus where each 
seat runs across the bus, and there are several 
paneled areas that you are locked into. I was locked 
into an area with this guy Lee, and he was in such 
pain that he could hardly move. 

When we got to Santa Rita, we made a point to 
get medical help for Lee. They finally took him into 
the Oakland Hospital, where he saw a doctor. He saw 
four doctors later at various times, none of whom did 
much of anything. Later he needed hospitalization, 
and we went on strike for him, but I will come to that. 
But they did try to take care of him. 

Santa Rita is south of the Livermore Valley, and 
it is called the Santa Rita Rehabilitation Center. 

lslt a prison farm? 

No, it is the county jail. It is not a real prison, but 
a minimum security prison, with fences all around 
it. Actually, it is an old Navy Base. 

At Santa Rita, they stripped us of everything. What 
had not been taken at Oakland was taken there. Then 
we were sprayed with DDT, which is a little painful. 
They give you a pair of dungarees that don't fit 
you. You are allowed to keep your shoes and socks, 
after they have searched them. They give you a blue 
shirt, and that's it. No reading material. You have to 
keep washing your underwear, and during the twenty 
days almost everybody's underwear was worn out. 
Stockings completely disintegrate if you wear them 
for twenty days in a row. When we lett, we willed 
whatever underwear was still intact to the people 
who were still there. The first bit of brutality we felt-
1 don't know if it was really brutality-we were 
awakened the next morning about 4:30 for breakfast. 
The temperature was about 30 degrees. Most of the 
time the weather was very warm, but that first day 
was cold. There was heavy frost. Then we were 
dragged outside and made to wait in line for fifteen 
minutes before we went to breakfast. And this was 
the beginning of the general harassment. 

If they woke you at 4:30, what time was breakfast? 

We were normally served breakfast at 5:30. We were 
scheduled for only two meals a day after our rebellion, 
so I ought to talk about the rebellion. The first night 
we were told we were going to be integrated with 
the other prisoners. If we shaved and showered, that 
is. But many people did not want to shave. Some 
people had beards for religious reasons, and others 
had beards because they played in rock-and-roll 
bands. And others felt a kind of castration in having 
these crewcut people coming at your beards and 
moustaches with clippers. 

They wanted you to get your hair cut too? 

You had to have your hair cut and a shave. You 
would be allowed a thin moustache, but you had to 
have your hair cut. An older man from the non-
violence tactics school felt that our main issue was the 
War. He had a beard for twenty years and he did not 
seem to think that it was a major issue. But the young 
people really did think it was an issue. And most of the 
older people decided the first night at Santa Rita to 
support the young people and not have a shave 
and haircut. 

And the next morning it happened-quite impromp-
tu. They came in and asked how many wanted to be 
integrated and get privileges. But those who don't, 
they said, can take your blankets and clothing to the 
other barracks. And that's what we did. Everybody 
just got up and did it. Then they herded us into an 
area with five barracks around a courtyard; we were 
segregated from the regular prisoners. We were put 
into two adjoining barracks, separated by a gate. 
They closed the gate after three days, when they saw 
that we were having meetings and getting a little too 
organized. 

The barracks I was in did not open into the court-
yard. So when we opened our doors, we were just on 
a sidewalk that ran about a hundred feet-the length 
of the barracks. So it was 50 or 60 people in a room 
about 100 feet long. The room had nothing in it but 
double bunk beds, five cold-water spigots, three 
johns and a urinal. That was it. We could open the 
doors and go out to the sidewalks in the front, but 
no farther. The johns were the same as they are in all 
prisons, out in the open. The bathroom itself was not 
even closed off. You know, it was almost part of 
the main room. 

Were the barracks heated? 

They were supposed to be heated. Some of them 
were, but ours wasn't. But after a while the weather 
got warmer. Though some people still got colds. It 
was cold at night, of course. It was always cold and 
uncomfortable to sleep there. We told the lieutenant 
about our colds when he came to talk to us at one 
point. He said colds are not a new thing, they are not 
an old thing either, they are there, they are every-
where people gather. Soon we sounded like a 
tuberculosis ward. I was very lucky. I had a cold two 
days and then it went away. We were fortunate to be 
in our barracks, because we finally began getting 
sunshine all day, and we sat outside in the sun. 

The women were taken elsewhere? 

Oh, yes. We saw them for the last time on the paddy 
wagon trip from the Induction Center at Oakland. 

But you heard about Joan Baez and her being 
put Into the Hole (solitary confinement)? 

In prison there is a grapevine, you see. Everything 
travels. When we went on a hunger strike for Lee 
Bond to get some medical treatment, the women 
went on a sympathy strike the next meal. They knew 
by that time. The captain came on the second day of 
our strike, and Lee was still very sick, and our Stan-
ford pathologist said he needed to be hospitalized. I 
told the captain at this point about him, and the 
captain said that he would be given medical treat-
ment. I was interested in my own attitude. 1 was willing 
to admit that the captain was a rational man. He 
seemed rational. I believed he would bring medical 
treatment. But the next day no medical treatment 
came. This fellow Lee could not get up to go to the 
dining hall, where we went twice a day. Our group 
was segregated from the other prisoners. We had 
only two meals a day, one at 5:30 in the morning, the 
other at three in the afternoon. We were allowed no 
privileges, no visitors, no mail, ingoing or outgoing. 
We did not have jackets for ten days. We didn't even 
have any toothpaste for five days or toothbrushes tor 
six. You cannot believe what the first taste of tooth-
paste is like after six days. It's the most exquisite 
flavor. 

I had believed that the captain would get help tor 
Lee, but he did not get help, and he lied to us in 
other instances. It was clear that the man was a liar, 
but I was not willing to admit this. I had always 
assumed that Jaw has some justice in it, but I quicklY 


--- Page 9 ---

e 
91 The New Journal I March 17, 1968 
learned that it does not. It is quite arbitrary. Their 
punitive techniques were simply haphazard. Every-
thing went according to whim. It was just like 
Catch-22. We actually had a copy of Catch-22 in the 
barracks. I split in into two parts, and it was widely 
circulated. It was a great favorite. Many felt it was the 
greatest book ever written, but that could be because 
they read it in jail, which is Catch-22 all over. The 
people in charge say something is the rule, but the 
rule is incomprehensible and you can't question it. 

The girls were also in trouble for failing to obey 
some rule which they did not understand. They later 
went on strike, which brought them a bread-and-
water diet for three days. Joan Baez was put in the 
Hole because she was the spokesman who went up 
to ask what rule they had violated. 

When the captain came a second time, he came to 
quiet us, because he thought we might become a 
problem like the girls. I was interested to see if there 
was a unanimity of response to him. Everybody knew 
that this man was a fool. I began to detect a 
mechanical smile that I had not seen the first time. 
Whenever we asked a question, he said, "I came to 
tell, not to discuss." There was finally a violent debate 
about what to do to get medical treatment for Lee. 
He had not been allowed to eat for two days because 
he could not walk to the dining hall, and we would 
get busted and sent to solitary if we brought food 
back. He was in great pain. 

At breakfast the next morning everybody took an 
empty tray and sat down. There were a few other 
prisoners, non-cooperative sorts, who saw us, and it 
reached them immediately. They cheered us when-
ever we entered the dining hall after that, and they 
would always flash a V-sign to us. As we lett the 
dining room that morning, we sang "We Shall 
Overcome." It was really a moving kind of experience, 
and by nine there was medical help. 

Ironically, 1 don't think the medical help had any-
thing to do with our strike, but the strike had other 
900d effects. It helped bind us together. It also gave 
the other prisoners the sense that things coul? .be 
done to make Santa Rita a better place. I see 1a11 as a 
kind of rug under which all our American problems are 
hidden. Prisoners are mainly winos and narcotics 
cases, and probably about eighty per cent Negroes. 
Eighty-three per cent come back to prison. No re-
habilitation goes on there, obviously. It is a place 
Where society conceals problems. You learn to look 
at America in a completely different way; you see that 
jail is just an incarnation of all the worst things in 
this country. The people who run it are violent a.n.d 
&adistic-the struggling little men, mostly ex-m1htary, 
Who need power. 

. 

The captain is obviously a parody of authonty 
figures who roam through our society, those mechan-
Ical people who claim they're only doing their job. 
He appeals to regulations and rules, and the world 
becomes kind of crazy because there are endle~ 
rules, and it you ask a questi~::m, sudd.enly ~rule IS 
Invented to take care of it. It 1s very dtsturbtng to see 
this; it can alter your vision of America. People in 
1hia country have cut themselves off from a sense of 
responsibility. They have gotten into their own bag, 
into their suburban home, and they don't care. They 
don't see the horror that goes on. They can say that 
this is the greatest country in the world, and at the 
next moment condemn the War in an abstract way. 

But then it's really interesting to see how we 
learned to live so well together under these intimate 
conditions. We had nothing at all. Our books were 
taken away from us, aside from a few that had been 
smuggled in or had been lying around. The intensity of 
learning to live with these people made all other 
things seem trivial, made the prison seem trivial. And 
it made even outside seem trivial after a while. When 
I came out that last Saturday, I expected the real 
world to be more real, to be beautiful and tangible. 
But when I came out, everything was shadowy and 
fictive. The real world was back there with those 
people. We were obviously intensely relating to each 
other while we were there. 

How do you mean? 

Well, I was struck both at Santa Rita and in the 
Oakland jail by how civilization suddenly seems to 
begin again when you do not have things. We made 
balls out of blankets, yarn and adhesive tape that a 
trusty smuggled to us. In fact, he was very good at 
getting us things from the outside. He brought 
cigarettes every evening. The trusty was our liaison 
with the world outside and with the other prisoners, 
some of our fellows, who had taken the shave and 
haircut and gone out and worked. One guy from 
Santa Cruz worked on a pig farm. Another guy 
worked in a bakery. The Stanford pathologist ended 
up pouring water in the dining hall. 

The guards would harass those who stayed behind. 
One of their techniques was to take someone off to 
solitary, quite arbitrarily, for some offense that you 
could never understand, and keep him there for five 
days. Some people were in maximum security for 
the time, where all you got was a mattress and a 
simple blanket in the evening from 11 to 6. The rest of 
the day you had to stand in a seven by seven cell, 
shared with cockroaches and ants. 

About the twelfth day, a guard we called Piggy, who 
was new on the job, came to harass us. He herded all 
60 of us into the little john area and made us walk by 
it again and again. Afterwards we sang Mickey Mouse 
songs because we were so frustrated and offended 
by the whole thing. Then he hauled one guy off. We 
were so stunned that we did not protest. When he 
came back that night and tried to take someone else 
off, we just all walked outside. We are all going, we 
said. And with that he had to get the lieutenant who 
came down and apologized and said that the man 
was new. Toward the end it was very beautiful to 
watch this punitive system break down. After that 
many people wanted to go greystone, solitary. 

They wanted to see what it was like. They also 
wanted to subvert the system. 

Piggy came in once and pleaded with us to rescue 
two people outside on the sidewalk who refused to 
come in for the count. He said to us, " Is there anybody 
here in authority who can persuade these two people 
to come in?" One black fellow, who is going to be a 
fine leader someday, answered, "I am the only black 
man here, therefore I have the power." 

What else happened among people in your barracks 
group? 

My own feelings about the group are the interesting 
part of the experience. Actually this intense group 
thing might happen under any situation of 
psychological stress. It does not have to happen in 
prison. But because it was prison, it made some 
difference. And it opened me up to many new things. 
At first I was perfectly friendly with people, but 1 
was the only person in his thirties in this barracks, 
though several people were older. I was also the 
only regular college teacher. And I had been 
resisting the California environment. 

That first day in Santa Rita, I met two extremely 
intelligent people talking about astrology. 1 never 
had any great interest in astrology, and I don't 
expect to develop one. But here were guys of 
extraordinary intelligence working out astrology 
charts for people. Suddenly I realized I knew a little 
astrology; I read Yeats, for instance. All right, so it 
still sounded zany to me. But I listened. I learned 
something too. Meanwhile somebody else was doing 
yoga. We soon started holding yoga classes, which 
I joined to get rid of my nervousness. I was nervous 
as hell that first day. I did yoga simply as a physical 
tool, not for any kind of theoretical belief at all. 
But it did relieve my nerves. 

At first I felt distant from these life styles. They 
struck me as strange, remote and sometimes 
ridiculous. Then I moved to an acceptance of diversity 
and new things which I had really believed I could 
not tolerate. In the process I learned how stuffy and 
rigid I was. My conservatism was constantly being 
brought home to me on the matter of colleges and 
universities. Thi~ always came up as my topic in 
discussions because I was part of the institution 
that many considered evil and actually doomed. Out 
here all kinds of free universities are beginning. 
They are a partial answer to people's community 
needs, because the established universities have 
become so big and bureaucratic. Yale seems 
incredibly human by comparison with these things 
out here. Free universities do develop as alternative 
communities. They stress group therapy types of 
programs and the exotic, but always with a kind of 
personal bent. I have looked very, very suspiciously 
at these things, but I talked to people at Santa Rita 
and elsewhere who made incredible sense about 
them. People talked about the kind of education 
that could be based on each person's needs-
education that does not try to channel anything or to 
place anything on top of people. 

In jail, these kinds of educational situations 
would spring up. Little by little seminars did develop, 
though they were hardly ever scheduled. We had 
seminars on Martin Suber. We had seminars on the 
future of the resistance movement, on the draft 
laws, on literature. You name it, there was a seminar. 
We had humanistic psychology lectures, and lectures 
on the longshoremen's union. 

Why can't we all conduct education in a more 
leisurely manner like this, with courses less rigid, 
less structured? I liked the fact that you could go to 
the classes you wanted. This is education to meet 
your interests and needs. 

Did the time pau slowly? 

At Santa Rita jail, anyway, the atmosphere of The 
Magic Mountain was always running through my 
mind. There was an incredible sense of severance 
from the familiar. All the routines you live by drop 
away very suddenly, and time really stops. There was 
no time. People ask, did it go by slowly, did it go 
by fast. It just did not exist. Several people said the 
whole experience resembled a very long acid trip. 
Time really stopped because there wasn't anything 
to measure it by. There were just our meals, and 
sometimes it got dark, and sometimes it was light. 
The effect of this on me was very peculiar. First of all, 



**Title:  Hair stylist (for men)**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Hair stylist (for men) 
Gentlemen's Workshop 
Do you get your hair cut with the same attitude 
that you cut your fingernails? Instead of just a 
"haircut," why not have your hair styled next time? 
A hairstylist considers your face as a whole. He can 
do more to improve your appearance than your tailor. 
Try it, unless you are perfect now. 
By appointment: 777-4123 
2 56 College Street 
Diclc Ferriudo, proprietor


**Title: Summer violence: black and white**
**Author: Austin Clarke**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

Summer violence: 
black and white 
by Austin Clarke 
Born in Barbados and educat.ed at the 
University of Toronto, Austin Clarke is a 
producer for the Canadian Broadcasting 
Company and the editor of Ebo Voices. 
The author of three novels, the latest 
entitled The Meeting Point, Mr. Clarke 
was recently a visiting fellow at Berkeley, 
Calhoun, and Morse Colleges. 
Certain misconceptions drift around this 
Yale campus like the woof in the long 
hair of the various cultists. These miscon-
ceptions, on a superficial examination, 
have to do with the relationship of the 
black student to the white student; and 
on a larger scale, with the relationship of 
the two races in the larger society of which 
Yale is, ironically, a very unreal sample. 
But in the deeper realities of racism in this 
country, these misconceptions become 
hypocrisy and racial deceitfulness--
perhaps cultural deceit, which is about 
the most heinous crime a man can ration-
alize himself into committing, by the 
process called intellectualism. 

It is now obvious even to those who are 
gripped in this cultural deceit that Amer-
ica is in a state of tension, trembling like 
a bowl of psychotic jello. It has put itself 
into this position of nervous trembling 
tension, in the first place, through this de-
ceit. But this deceit has a certain historical 
basis. The relevant fact is, that the white 
man is concerned about violence this 
summer. In blunt terms, he is concerned 
about the possibility of his being killed in 
what Esquire magazine, very emotionally, 
called The Second Civil War. The black 
man, on the other hand, is more correctly, 
deeply concerned. His concern is for his 
life, whether or not he is something called, 
by the inventiveness of journalism, a Black 
Nationalist, a Black Racist, or a Black 
Muslim; and his concern at this time of 
tension is based on no more startling an 
historical fact than that, even in times of 
less expressed tension, his life, his creative 
ambition in terms of achievement within 
the greater society, has always been domi-
nated by the possibility of his being killed 
by whites, simply because he is black. 

I do not think, however, that the con-
cern of the white man in this context is 
anything more than an awareness. His con-
cern cannot be, and is not, from his own 
historical relationships with black people, 
of a nature that can be translated into any 
creative action to avert this impending 
violence-violence both to himself and to 
the black man. I think that the white man 
today in this country, because of his stance 
of silent immorality, has been put in a 
position of interpreting this concern (if 
he has thought about it at all in these 
terms) to mean his concern for white lives. 
And also, his concern for white property. 
He will arm himself against blacks; 
blacks in general, blacks whose very pres-
ence and existence, he is convinced, 
threaten him and are even bent upon the 
destruction of him as a man. This white 
choice, this arming against the Second 
Civil War, has in effect stated that the 
possibility of understanding, of communi-
cation between the two races, of facing 
the reality that this arming is no solution, 
is really the signal that the black man must 
once again clothe himself in his historical 
shell of defensiveness. 

One gets the impression that the two 
forces in the society, the civil and the pri-
vate attitudes to arming and therefore to 
violence, must react one upon the other in 
such a way as-to create a chain reaction 
of indiscriminate slaughter of blacks and 
whites. And the sad possibility exists that 
when white citizens arm themselves, their 
act presupposes a certain incapability on 
the part of the Jaw agencies to do the job of 
killing the identified enemy cleanly and 
efficiently. The terrible implication exists 
that the white citizens have private scores 
to settle which may not arise out of the 
declared state of rebellion or revolution or 
riot. There is a very real possibility that 
this private arming might result in a mad 
thirst for black blood, the racial implica-
tion of the term notwithstanding. 

The concern of the black man is a real 
one. He has found himself in a position 
that may be called revolutionary, revo-
lutionary not so much in a political sense 
as in a cultural sense. His historical tra-
dition in this country has taught him that 
the white man could conceivably choose 
one of his race for lynching, for murder, 
for rape; the society has reacted against 
him in such a way as to rob him of all his 
freedoms, or of a considerable and signi-
ficant amount of the freedoms that exist by 
the simple fact of birth. Today, this black 
man is in a position in which he sees that 
the society has in fact, through its acts, 
chosen his entire race, or a considerable 
portion of it, tot elimination. Police forces 
have bought equipment which tradition-
ally one expects to find only on the battle-
field of an enemy of the United States, 
not in a black community. The publica-
tion, whether intended or not, of descrip-
tions of the arsenals located strategically 
throughout the country, the hardened 
attitude of white egotism and the very 
existence of these arsenals states that the 
justification of their use almost coincides 
with the apparent sanguinity of their 
purpose. This is the revolutionary position 
confronting the black man in this country. 

You get the terrifying feeling in the guts 
that every white man you meet on the 
street is praying for the summer to come, 
like Americans wish for Christmas and 
Santa Claus. You get the uneasy premoni-
tion that something has been planned: 
wait until summer, this Negro problem will 
be solved once and for all. But although 
this is the wrong medicine for an ailment 
which was wrongly diagnosed to begin 
with, no one seems too worried about it. 
It has gone beyond that. 

I have not yet considered the causes 
for this intensified white attitude reflected 
in civic and private arming. They are 
simple: the attitude arose out of the vari-
ous white reactions to the rebellions, to 
"crime in our streets," to "lawlessness," 
to "civil violence," which are really 
euphemisms for "niggers acting up and 
getting out of hand." But these rebellions 
were caused by something else: something 
cultural, something historical, something 
that exists in the very foundations of this 
society. The arming and its motivation 
state bluntly that the causes of those re-
bellions (not only of last summer but the 
perennial question of what to do with the 
niggers in the woodpile of society) have 
now become irreconcilable, absolutely 
insoluble. They state bluntly that the pos-
sibility of any creative relationship be-
tween blacks and whites is not only non-
existent, but undesirable; and in this way, 
the act of arming and the apparent desira-
bility of implementing the usefulness of 
those arms shows that white America is 
reverting back to the psychology of the 
strong cowboy of the legendary West. 
Bang! Bang! Bang! Problem solved. You 
blow the morality away in the smoke of 
the gun and the guilt and the conscience 
disappear with the smoke. 

It should be evident by now that I have 
laid most, if not all, of the liability upon 
the white American. This is not necessarily 
a racist point of view. It is more the point 
of view derived from a realistic appraisal 
of the real power of this white American 
-a power which is undeniably great 
enough to end effective racism, a power 
which by its execution in racial considera-
tions ignores morality and conscience. But 
this acknowledgment of the white man's 
power does not imply that the moral 
aspect of racism, though its end might be 
achievable, would disappear with the 
actual, physical end of racism. And this 
would be my refutation of the opinion of 
Dick Gregory, the comedian, who told a 
Yale audience recently that while he was 
disposed to call America the most racist 
country in the world, this definition did not 
exclude the black American. This opinion 
of Mr. Gregorys undoubtedly shows a 
comedian's predisposition for making 
people laugh, if at the expense of keeping 
them instructed. For if Mr. Gregory were 
concerned more with instruction than with 
comedy, then he would have understood 
that historically the power to do good and 
the power to do evil, like the corresponding 
freedom to be good and to be evil, has 
always been in the hands of the white 
man; and this power bas been used. 

To substantiate this position, let me go 
back to what can be seen in the white pri-
vate assumption of arms. It is egotism. 
It is self-protectionism. It is alienation. It 
also is a statement that those agencies 
elected to provide protection for the citi-
zen (black and white) within the law have 
broken down or are assumed to have 
broken down, that those agencies are too 
impartial (depending upon one's degree of 
racist attitude) to the black citizens. The 
white citizen with arms ceases to regard 
the black citizen as a citizen at all, or as a 
human being, and regards him more as a 
threatening force outside of himself. As a 
statistic. As a minority, defined only by 
reports of commissions. Some social psy-
chologists have defined this society as a 
song-singing society. I think it is a 
commission-oriented society. 

One gets the feeling also that this white 
arming is to serve not only the preserva-
tion of white lives but also the main-
tenance ,of white property. Recognizing 
the sovereignty imputed to property by the 
white man, and recognizing the white 
man's refusal to acknowledge his associa-
tive humanity to blacks (both innocent and 
guilty in a riot-violence context) when 
they are locked in a so-called riot-this 
recognition clearly exposes the sliding 
scale of cultural and moral values, the 
schizophrenic, in American civilization. 

But the white man cannot stop at arm-
ing himself and then wait behind the 
darkened blinds of his conscience for the 
black revolutionary or the black rioter 
to show his face of anger and dissent. 
Similarly, the white man cannot justi-
fiably correlate his inaction, his non-
participation in killing blacks, or his lib-
eralism with his financial contribution 
to so-called civil rights movements and 
organizations or his physical participation 
in them. In the present context of revo-
lution, the white man cannot sit down 
in front of his television set, view the 
violence and conclude that he is morally 
righteous and racialistically better than the 
killing cop, merely because of this physi-
cal non-participation. He cannot in any 
way achieve this moral absolution, even if 
in the process of witnessing the "de-
tached" television violence he does shed 
a few tears. It is beyond tears and moral 
values. For him to rationalize this way is 
to pretend he can live outside the reality of 
his social responsibility, which has now 
become a responsibility because of factors 
that are out of his control. 

Basically, this action of non-action 
cannot be a realistic tactic, because in this 
context of violence in the revolution, the 
definitions of white liberal, white activist, 
white racist, white cop, on the one hand, 
and black nationalist, Negro, nigger, Black 
Muslim, Uncle Tom, on the other, will 
cease to have value, will cease to have 
relevance. The values which both racial 
groups think they can derive from the 
violence, from the threat of violence and 
from the communication or political re-
lationship erupting out of the conclusion 
of the violence-these values are going 
to be the real values. Nobody should be 
too concerned, in this context, if he is to be 
killed, although he does not subscribe to 
or maintain either antagonistic attitude 
or ideology in the revolution. The revo-
lution is going to create, out of itself, the 
side that people are going to have to take. 
It will resolve itself into a case of having 
your allegiance chosen for you, by the 
simple logic of your color. 

The perspective of reality tells us, or 
ought to tell us, two things. First, violence 
is American. And white. Second, in the 
state of tension and jello-sensibilities, it 
may be, perhaps, perhaps, desirable that 
the violence express itself in a controlled 
way--on both sides-in order that the two 
peoples can recommence some more 
creative functioning in their society. In 
this sense, the violence may be desirable. 
If it can be projected that this essential 
violence will result in a plateau of rela-
tionships which are more creative (a 
redefinition of the morality of the two 
races; a miraculous comprehension of the 
futility of this kind of violence in this 
kind of society), then the violence ceases 
to be merely essential and becomes 
desirable. 

Violence in itself is undesirable. As a 
creative artist I have to recognize the 
negativism of violence. But my creative 
imagination does not blind me to the 
greater realities which state, especially 
loudly today, that whether or not I am 
involved in something called art-for-art's· 
sake, I am a member of a society which 
today threatens the elimination of my 
race. And I am aware of the greater values 
deriving from those greater realities. 

There is nothing you or I can do to 
avert this violence, in its political con-
siderations. But there is something you and 
I may do-perhaps will have to do--
once the violence erupts. 


M.gical Mystery Tour $4.57 
Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band $4.57 
Revolver $3.57 
Rubber Soul $3.57 
The Beatles Yesterday and Today $3.57 
The Early Beatles $3.57 
Beatles VI $3.57 
Hard Day's Night $3.57 
Help $4.57 
Remember to visit the Co-op for all the really 
new records in classical, folk, jazz, pop; all 
at low discount prices and P.R. too.



**Title: 131 The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
131 The New Journal I March 17, 1968 
continued from page 6 
lows a similar pattern. He believes the best 
writing courses could be courses in Milton 
or the French novel, and he constructs his 
own class discussions around the analysis 
of a novel or short story. How is the story 
made? he asks. How does it express its 
.aning? How does it fulfill itself? 

Warren's current critical emphasis goes 
far beyond the concentration on the text 
advocated by his earlier textbooks. The 
ltOry comes out of a man's "life context" 
and "life needs." His "life context" is the 
whole period he wrote in: the social con-
text, the conflict of values in his world. But 
there is also an individual with "life needs" 
behind the story. "Every man has his own 
place to scratch, his own little scab to 
pick," Warren says. How does the author 
lranslate his preoccupations and life con-
at into a story that has meaning and 
relevance for others? 

The standard authors Warren talks 
about in class are examples of men grap-
pling with the problems of writing. War-
JeD's sense of history again dictates his 
leDSe of what is most important for a 
writer to learn. Young writers especially 
IDd it hard to understand their relation to 
lbeir own times. Literature courses teach 
bow other writers faced this problem. 
Dreiser dealt with the newspaper, "the 
bot stuff." Hawthorne went back into 
history. The student's sense of his own role 
can be sharpened by these examples. 

Warren and his writing students thrash 
out individual story problems in frequent 
conferences. "I don't think what is done in 
a conference could be duplicated in a class 
of fifteen people. It's too public. It would 
he inhibiting to me and to the students." 
Ia writing conferences Warren encourages 
&lhldent to explain how the story came out 
ef his deeper self, not as a dire, dark auto-
11iosraphical secret, but as the expression 
of a relation between himself and his life. 

One student compared the atmosphere 
ef the conference to a profound conver-
lltion on someone's front porch. Although 
Warren bas made no marks on a story ex-
cept the time of the appointment, be re-
JDembers its details and methods almost 
CIOmpletely. "He gives a general opinion of 
-and then leans back and asks you what 
J'UUr theme is, what are you trying to say. 
After you tell him, he points out which 
ll:enes work toward that end and which 
don't. He suggests alternatives and tells 
JOU to let your mind play over the story, 
letting new associations build up." 

Both Warren and his students find this 
Rperience rewarding. The students sense 
a Wisdom and a deep interest in their prob-
lems and work. Warren himself says that 
tallting personally to students is one of the 
-.est important things be does. It is his 
CIDiy way of continually knowing their 
lraeration. "Otherwise, I'd be going into 
&friend's living room and have his son or 
ll'andson say 'Good evening, sir' and then 
10 out. If you have any curiosity about the 
lbape of the world, teaching is one way 
of seeing something that's happening." 

'--headed, frukled, lean, a little 
#ooped, 
IIVIIo yearned to be understood, to malce 
communication, 
!'o touch the ironic immensity of after-
IIOon with meaning, 
J'o lind and know my name and make it 
fl._ ,.,d, 
..._one wild word: 
l.iaht, liaht, light! 
~lid all identity tottered to that remorse-
leu vibration. 


**Title: Counter-demonstrators**
**Author: James Thorpe**

The big American flag at the head of the 
demonstration returned to the Green 
about the time the last of the marchers set 
out for the Induction Center. This meant 
that about six thousand people who 
had turned out on the afternoon of 
March 3, 1968, were strung out through 
the center of New Haven, and the "counter-
demonstrators had some time to kill. 

The professional counter-demonstrators 
knew this was their hour. The Bridgeport 
Anti-Communist Society's mobile grave-
yard circled the Green a couple of times 
on the back of an enormous truck, with 
its row of markers commemorating the 
millions and hundreds of millions from 
Russia to Cuba who have died by being 
forced to live under communism. A seven-
year-old struggled manfully under a sign 
condemning red professors and pink stu-
dents. A leaflet passer was training a man 
in his late twenties in the minimax of 
counter-demonstrating. It was business 
as usual. 

But even professionals are human. The 
man who drives the graveyard exploded at 
the Yale graduate student who led the 
marchers, carrying the flag. "Hey you," 
he began, "you the sonovabitch pushed me 
in the water at Westport .... "An elderly 
patriot with Kresge's Stars and Stripes 
threatened to burn anyone who wanted 
to burn the flag. It must be admitted 
though, he thought most of the peaceniks 
were sincere, and did not object to their 
use of the flag (" ... it's a law that you 
gotta fly the American flag at demon-
strations, to show that you love your 
country ... "). 

For every professional there are half 
a dozen concerned citizens, and a more 
significant number of just plain folks. 
They never meant to be counter-demon-
strators. They just happened to come from 
Madison to shop in the Mall, or from 
North Haven to take their girlfriend to a 
movie when they discovered the march. 
Nobody ever pays attention to profes-
sionals except other professionals. It's 
hard not to pay attention to a concerned 
citizen, however. You know the general 
line: "You ain't worth the air you breathe 
and it's fre~get a bath, you filthy scum 
-if you don't Jove your country, go to 
Russia," and so forth. Do not under-
estimate the concerned citizen. He may 
have a son or a brother or a boyfriend who 
is getting shot at, which is after all the 
kind of thing that makes one concerned. 
He is neither pink-brained nor yellow-
bellied. He's a taxpayer too. He knows 
that America has never lost a war. 

Besides, if the demonstrators are not 
interesting enough to those who passed by, 
there are always the Slum Lords, or the 
Shakers, or the Comrnancheros. They 
pass for motorcycle hoods, complete with 
denim uniforms and Hell's Angels faces, 
until you realize that there aren't any 
motorcycles to be seen, except for the 
massive police Harleys. They have come 
to taunt the cops and to join in the traffic 
jam along the march route in their blue 
Pontiacs and, finally, to exercise their 
right of free speech by singing "The Battle 
Hymn of the Republic." 

And they do attract the younger ele-
ment. Your common garden variety high 
school student, who never seems to have 
much to do anyhow, must pass his Satur-
day afternoon one way or another, and 
motorcycle gangs are entertaining. As the 
speeches started on the other side of the 
rope, wandering twos and threes coalesced 
to the tune of "Glory, glory, hallelujah, 
the truth goes marching on." 

A handful broke from the crowd to see 
whether they could cop the peaceniks' 
flag. "Hey, hey, what do you say, let's 
support the USA," they chanted. 

Meanwhile, Arthur Miller earnestly 
declared that war is not an athletic contest. 
Two dozen eggs were thrown into the 
knot of high school students, but it didn't 
matter, since the eggs were still in their 
cartons. Before long, the enormous sea-
gull which had spent the afternoon on top 
of the WELl flagpole across the street 
headed for sea, and the crowd of high 
school students dissolved like salt in water. 

An elderly Negro policeman turned to 
his fellow officer and said, "OK, Mouse-
keteers, let's take it easy." In a minute, 
William Sloane Coffin would speak. And 
General Westmoreland wants another 
206,000 troops next year. 
Graduate student, English. 


**Title: Rhinoceros**
**Author: Ray Ortali**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

If a rhinoceros were to run over a house-
wife's cat, you would probably think that 
the cat had no business being in the 
rhino's cage. If a logician were to tell 
an old gentleman that since a cat has four 
paws, and his dog also has four paws, his 
dog is therefore a cat, you would know 
that you were at an lonesco play. And if 
the old gentleman were of the beatnik 
type, if the housewife were to wear a mini-
skirt, you would realize that you were 
watching the Dramat production of 
Rhinoceros. Let me add right away that I 
love cats (when they are not dogs), mini-
skirts (when they are not worn by bouse-
wives) and Dramat productions (when 
they don't transform a logician into a 
Dr. Leary, who happens to be something 
like his opposite). 

Said Ionesco: "The bad qualities of a 
play are due to the fact that they are not in 
conformity with the play itself." Like-
wise: the bad qualities of the directing of 
a play are due to the fact that they are 
not in conformity with the play itself. 
That, I think, was the problem with the 
Dramat's production. 

Let me quote Ionesco once more: "I 
have been very much struck by what one 
might call the current of opinion, by its 
rapid evolution, its power of contagion, 
which is that of a real epidemic. People 
allow themselves suddenly to be invaded 
by a new religion, a doctrine, a fanaticism. 
... When people no longer share your 
opinions, when you can no longer make 
yourself understood by them, you have the 
impression of being confronted with 
monsters-rhinos, for example. They 
have that mixture of candor and ferocity. 
They would kill you in the best of con-
science." Around 1938, in Bucharest, 
lonesco had witnessed many of his rela-
tives and friends being contaminated by 
the ideology of the epoch, Nazism. The 
play, whose initial purpose was to de-
scribe, in an almost clinical fashion, this 
process of Nazification, had its world 
premiere on the stage at Dusseldorf in 
November, 1959, and the way it was re-
ceived by the German audience proved 
they made no mistake about its meaning. 

For the record, it must be said that Ionesco 
intensely disliked the way the play was 
produced on Broadway. "[In America] 
everybody agreed that the play was funny . 
But it is not funny; although it is a farce, 
it is above all a tragedy. A man watches 
powerlessly the transformation of his 
world; he does not know any more whether 
he is right or not. He struggles hope-
lessly. He is the last one of his kind. He 
is lost. People find that funny!" 

The structure of the work is classic: a 
simple idea (under certain circumstances, 
men become rhinos), a regular progression 
(one anonymous person becomes a rhino, 
then an office colleague, then Beranger's 
best friend, then everybody except Beran-
ger and his girl friend, then everybody 
except Beranger), finally a denouement 
(the paradoxical-and dubious-victory 
of Beranger). In other words, a trap which 
progressively closes upon its victim. But 
in this production, the trap did not work 
perfectly. One of the reasons was that the 
staging was not in accord with lonesco's 
play. This we can see, for instance, in the 
sets of the first two acts. 

In the first scene, brown and sad walls, 
moderate light; in the second scene. a 
brightly lighted and very modern adver-
tising office in Madison Avenue, where 
people seem to have a lot of fun perfecting 
the "bad breath" television ad. Just the 
opposite of the directions given by Ionesco 
and, more important, just the opposite of 
the spirit of the play. Details? Maybe, but 
"the bad qualities of the directing ... " 

Again, in the first scene of the second 
act, Beranger, who has come to John's 
room to apologize for an argument, 
watches as John turns into a rhino. The 
striptease and bellydancing of Jon Marks 
as John were very impressive and in per-
fect accord with the spirit of the play, the 
moral striptease being cleverly paralleled 
by the physical. Then Beranger returns 
to his own room, which is soon besieged 
by a herd of rhinos, increasing in number 
minute by minute, roaring louder and 
louder, from the streets, on the telephone, 
on the television. And here I have no 
fewer than two quarrels with the Dramat 
production. 

First, the decorator has created for 
John a beautifully furnished, sophisti-
cated room, and for Beraoger a very 
shabby one. Now nothing is further from 
the spirit of the play than the implication 
of any social difference between John 
and Beranger: both work eight hours a day 
in the same sort of office, if not in the 
same one. Ionesco, whose stage directions 
are never to be overlooked, is very clear 
on this point. "Beranger's room looks 
surprisingly like John's." Why? To em-
phasize the basic fact that Beranger 
could be·John, and John, Beranger. No 
matter what the dtfferences are between 
the two friends, they are less important 
than their similarities. Beranger finds it 
difficult to summon the energy to meet 
each new day; be is "not used to himself," 
and nevertheless he is the one who re-
mains a man. It so happens that be is 
immune to the "rhinoceritis." John is 
happy with himself, be feels "light, light," 
and yet he is the one who chooses to be-
come a rhino. The opposite couJd just 
as well have been true. 

My second disagreement with the 
Dramat production appears to me the 
more important. The whole last scene 
seems pointless (I am almost sure of that) 
and boring (I am quite sure of that). It 
is partly Ionesco's fault. Beranger's suc-
cessive confrontations with his colleague 
Dudard, with his girl friend Daisy, and 
finally with himself are a little bit mechani-
cal, almost too well planned. It is partly 
the fault of the actor playing Dudard, who 
seemed to have some difficulty in bring-
ing life to the character, not one of the 
best created by Ionesco anyway. But it is 


--- Page 14 ---

mainly, I believe, a problem with the 
direction. In fact, the solution had been 
outlined by Ionesco himself: "On the back 
wall, stylized rhinos' heads appear and 
disappear, more and more numerous up 
to the end of the act. These heads must 
become more and more beautiful in spite 
of their monstrosity." I do not pretend 
that the heads have to be on the back wall 
or even that they should really look like 
rhinos' heads. Any cinematographic-
or psychedelic--device would be welcome, 
but the absolute imperatives are constant 
motion, constant increase in number (the 
notion of proliferation is dear to Ionesco's 
heart) and constant increase in beauty. 

True, we had once in a while a happy 
bunch of characters with rhino's noses 
dancing around the stage, but this is 
hardly an adequate solution. The rhinos 
must be present all the time and 
must become mor.e and more beautiful. 
This is basic: their growing beauty 
should condition the audience, or at least 
prepare it, to the sudden about-face of 
Beranger, succumbing to the temptation of 
the "rhinoceritis" and shouting, "I am 
not handsome! Th.ey are handsome!" 

Moreover, lonesco took the trouble to 
indicate a second device which, added to 
the first one, should put the audience in a 
sort of mesmerized mood, much the same 
as Beranger's own emotional state. He 
looks at some of his friends' portraits, and 
then puts them on the wall. "The ugliness 
of these portraits contrasts with the rhinos' 
heads, which have become very beauti-
ful." Unfortunately that device also was 
overlooked in the Dramat production, and 
the result is to put on the poor words 
uttered by Beranger a burden that they 
were not intended to bear. 

There is one last problem. The whole 
play has been transported from France to 
the United States, 1968, in order to focus 
the meaning of the play on current Amer-
ican problems. The majority of the 
slides stressed the bad conscience of 
America toward her minority groups and 
toward the violent intervention in Viet-
nam, and seems to disapprove. This is at 
least the impression that I gathered. On 
the other hand, I was told that what the 
director had in mind was exactly the oppo-
site, to castigate the extremists, whether 
on the right or on the left. If this is so, 
he failed to convey that impression, at 
least to me; and in any case, it is at best 
risky to assume common features between 
the "New Left" (even the "New Right") 
and Nazi ideology. Furthermore, even 
assuming it to be proved, the parallel does 
not seem to work. Beranger's ultimate 
loneliness stems from a totalitarian con-
dition. All or almost all his fellow citizens 
are overcome by the "rhinoceritis," and 
especially the bourgeois, the pressure 
groups, the gens en place, the govern-
ment. It seems to me that in 1968 in 
America, Beranger would have, on the 
contrary, no problem at all. 

I have been critical enough of this 
Dramat production to have the right to 
say (and a chance to be believed) that such 
an ambitious production is a most ex-
citing and most welcome contribution to 
a more alive American theater. Jon Marks 
in the role of John was without contest 
the best rhino around. Clay Howe was an 
excellent Beranger, soft-spoken, mar-
velously helpless and once in a while 
genuinely moving. As for the director, 
Leland Starnes, he has an obvious sense of 
theatrics, an ability to manage actors, and 
a lot of imagination. Indeed, why not 
imagine Ionesco's play speaking Amer-
ican? But here the accent is too heavy, 
the intonation overstressed. 
Assistant Professor of French. 


**Title: Letters**
**Author: Multiple Authors**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

To the Editors: 

The road to nation-building is not smooth 
for a country like Nigeria. With 56 million 
people in an area about the size of Texas 
and Okll}homa, Nigeria has within its 
boundaries 250 or more ethnic groups 
speaking different languages. Yet never 
before in the history of modern Africa 
have so many people been ruled by so few 
whom they themselves elected. 

Political parties in Nigeria grew along 
ethnic and regional lines, mostly to protect 
each group's or region's interest- and so 
contributed to suspicion among ethnic 
groups. Each party is held together by 
traditional, familial, ethnic and religious 
loyalties. The l bos, the most educated and 
vocal group in pre-independent Nigeria, 
came to dominate the NCNC (National 
Council of Nigerian Convention), which 
became merely the mouthpiece of an 
lbo ethnic and cultural or&anization, the 
lbo Union. 

Relax. 

When you're out of the office, 
let VIP handle all your calls 
For details: 787- 4104 
**Title: Advertisement**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Advertisement 
Of all society's laws, the command to kill is 
perhaps the one law which a moral man 
should presume always to disobey--except 
when he has compelling reasons for obeying. 
Ignorance, doubt, the lack of specific opposi-
tion are never convincing reasons for follow-
ing the call to war. Fear of imprisonment or of 
the law are neither moral reasons for killing, 
nor rational reasons for dying. And even for 
the most deeply committed democrat, majority 
approval of a war is not sufficient cause to 
fight in it. To fight, to kill, to die, we would 
need more than a justification of this war. We 
would need conviction-strong conviction 
that what we do is just and right, that the 
destruction of Vietnam is the only way to save 
something as close and as dear to us as the life 
. we might lose. To fight without this conviction 
is to kill wantonly, to sacrifice needlessly. 
The burden of proof-the necessity to con-
vince us with real and irrefutable arguments-
rests with the government which would send 
us off to kill and to die, and not with those of 
us who would refuse to serve. The law tells us 
co·participate in war unless we are forbidden 
by conscience and religion to do so. We believe 
that war is grave enough and horrible enough 
that people should oppose it, unless compelled 
by conscience and survival to support it. 
WE ARE NOT CONVINCED. We will not 
serve this brutal war. We will not cease in our 
efforts to stop it. 
We are told that draft resistance is an in-
tensely personal decision-between a man 
and his conscience-and that civil disobedi-
ence should not be undertaken for political 
ends. Yet our "personal" decision is a matter 
of life or de~th for someone whose conscience 
is not consulted; submission to induction is 
every bit as political as resistance. We are told 
that our conscience cannot be exercised 
through a group; we must act individually, 
one by one. Yet in our name the government 
uses an army, and destroys a nation. We are 
told that two wrongs do not make a right, that 
while the government may be wrong, we 
should not use illegal means to oppose it. Yet 
we do little harm, much less than the harm 
we would do by remaining silent. Can this be 
compared to the systematic destruction meted 
out by U.S. troops and bombers? Finally, we 
are told that were everyone to follow his con-
science instead of the law, it would lead to 
anarchy. Yet Hider came to power legally, 
and Eichmann carried out his duties under the 
law. Has not history shown us a far greater 
danger when everyone follows the dictates of 
government without regard to his conscience? 
Patriotism has often required that men die 
for their country. It is in the spirit of patriotism 
that many 'of us are prepared to go tO jail for 
our country. To oppose this war in silence is 
a crime. And while the government may put 
us in jail, it cannot make us criminals. We will 
meet at I :oo p.m. on the NEW HAVEN 
G RBEN. Please be there to support us; please 
join with us, in the name of America, to end 
this war. 


Many are prepared to resist, but only with 
some assurance that their action will be part 
of a politically effective movement. To break 
esistance 
The war has reached such magnitude that it 
is no longer enough to withdraw our support. 
We must actively work to prevent our 
brothers, American and Vietnamese, from 
killing and dying senselessly. It is a conscienti-
ous act to refuse to commit an atrocity; it is 
also a conscientious act to exercise political 
power to stop an atrocity. On April 3, young 
men throughout the nation will return their 
draft cards to the government, and write an 
explanatory letter to theit boards. Those not 
subject to the draft will stand with them in 
solidarity. By this act, they will serve notice 
on the American people that those asked to 
fight this war do not support it. They will 
demonstrate to the government, in a dignified 
and non-violent manner, that to continue in 
its violence, it will have to imprison many of 
the nation's privileged youth. And because 
virtually all next year's draftees will come 
from this stratum, they can withhold from 
the government the power it needs to increase 
its madness. 

down the sense of isolation, to reduce the 
danger of acting in vain, The Resistance offers 
a pledge: one may agree to resist on the con-
dition that the number of pledges. nationwide 
reaches a specified total (the pledge is grad-
uated from I,ooo to I 5,000). If you are ready 
to resist now, along with the 2,000 others who 
have already done so, we urge that you sign 
the unconditional pledge so that we may 
include you in the nationwide tally. To obtain 
a pledge form, or to discuss any other aspects 
of The Resistance, please call Doug Rosenberg 
at 865-274I, or Rick Bogel at 562-8388. 
Contributions are also welcomed, made out to 
The Resistance, and sent to 68 Norton St. 
Apt. 44, New Haven. 

A Rally for Peace and Support 
Meet on the New Haven Green, 
Wednesday April3, 1 p.m. 

