Publication date: April 27, 1969
Volume: two
Issue number: ten

**MASTHEAD**
- Editor: Jonathan Lear
- Executive Editor: Herman Hong
- Articles Editor: Lawrence Lasker
- Business Manager: Steve Thomas
- Art Director: Nita Kalish
- Associate Editor: Paul Goldberger
- Advertising Manager: K. Elia Georgiades
- Copy Editors: Nancy Vickers, Craig Slutzker
- Photography Editor: Robert Randolph
- Circulation Manager: John Adams
- Publisher: Peter Yaeger
- Contributing Editors: Susan Holahan, William L. Kahrl, Mopsy S. Kennedy, Michael Lerner, Bruce Mcintosh, Leo Ribuffo
- Staff: Tom Abell, Richard Caples, Leo Draper, Mark Fishman, James Hinson, Stuart Klawans, Manuel Perez, Michael David Rose, Deborah Rubin, Scott Simpson, Joel Skidmore, Warner Wada, Michael Waltuch


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**

Bethune serving Mao's people - Jonathan Spence
Summer high school; at last the real story - Paul Goldberger
Social center at Yale - Peter Hoyt
Yale basketball in Dallas - Daniel Peters


**Title: In Comment: The Yalie Daily hits new lows, a Jetter from our Harvard friends, a heroic struggle at the law school, and some thoughts on marches past.**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 2**

No one these days is very happy with the 
Yale Daily News. This goes far beyond . 
immature, petty jealousies between campus 
organizations, for many of my friends 
who are running the News express the 
same concern-that something is not work-
ing right. So busy are they printing sup-
plements, course critiques and advertising 
brochures that they seem to take pride in 
doing everything but putting out a respon-
sible, hard-hitting daily. And what should 
be the focal point of that organization 
suffers at the expense of numerous tem-
porary projects. 


The Summer High School crisis is a 
good example. After three months of re-
search on the subject, our Associate Editor 
Paul Goldberger found that the News, des-
perate for an issue on which to attack the 
administration, had come up with a story 
that abdicated aU responsibility for fac-
tual reporting. We have been working 
three months on this one story in order to 
present a responsible account of what 
really happened. The incestuous relations 
between a reporter of the News and the 
people he was writing about reached an 
ugly climax this past weekend. When a 
copy of our story was pirated to that re-
porter, his first action was to relay all the 
information to those who can only be 
called his clients. That the News can alJow 
its reporters to stoop to such depths of 
journalistic immorality and at the same 
time presume to editorialize about the 
rightness or wrongness of things seems 
somewhat paradoxical. If the News has 
not used the knowledge of our story for 
some biased coverage by the time this issue 
appears, it will be exercising a responsible 
restraint for which it has not been known 
in the past. 

Jonathan Lear


**Title: Letter from Cambridge**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

April 16, 1969

It rained here this afternoon-after a week 
of joyful spring weather-for the first time 
since the bust last Thursday morning. 


Driven away along with the sun was a ten-
sion and anxiety that was relentlessly ex-
hausting both emotionally and physically. 


Gone-for the time being, at least-were the 
chanting pickets, angry speakers, the litera-
ture tables and TV cameras. All that re-
mained were a few isolated groups and a 
warm spring rain. 


The last week, of course, had been very 
different: milling crowds, urgent issues, 
expectation and excitement-"a carnival 
atmosphere in historic Harvard Yard"-to 
join two favorite phrases of the press. The 
press?-they are already taken for granted, 
and it is an isolated few that haven't been 
on TV or interviewed by at least one of the 
four New York Times correspondents. A 
picture of my roommate handing a red 
strike armband to Nathan Pusey was on 
the front page of the Globe, but did you 
see whose picture was in Time this week? 


Most of all, I guess I'm just tired: tired 
of the stupidity of the Administration, 
tired of the demagoguery of SDS, tired of 
the moderates' bickering, tired of points o{ 
order, non-negotiable demands, ultimata, 
colloquia, the decision-making process, 
ROTC, expansionism, concern, activism, 
people ... and spring vacation only ended 
last week. 


It is difficult to be certain about anything 
except your uncertainty here anymore; 
emotions are continually changing and 
with the same inevitability as the mimeo-
graph machine. "Follow your emotions" 
is the new philosophy of crisis as you fluc-
tuate wildly between cool reason and com-
promise and irreconcilable hatred. Six days 
have passed since the bust, and only the 
deep ruts encircling University HaU-left 
by the buses which carried the State Police 
-serve as a reminder of how this aU started. 


It's already difficult to remember the night 
you spent "on the steps,'' the alarm, some 
shouting and then the long line of baby-
blue police helmets moving unimpeded to 
break up quickly and efficiently the token 
resistance. And then all you could do was 
run and shout, surging forward against a 
. wall of cops until one broke and chased 
yoq, clubbing whoever happened to be in 
the way. There was no sign of the worker-
student alliance in these men's faces as 
they dragged the occupiers into their buses 
and paddy wagons and then slowly began 
to cordon off the Yard. 


Superficially, I guess it seemed like Chi-
cago all over again, but in a way it was 
something very different and far more dis-
turbing. This wasn't the personal fiefdom 
of a political boss or a hostile city that 
claimed to be the hog butcher of the world, 
and it was not the climax of a long cam-
paign: this was the college you had chosen 
to attend; those blood-stained steps led to 
the library in which you were supposed to 
seek knowledge. "What were you doing 
.there?" a cop would later ask a kid whose 
camera had been smashed. "I live there,'' 
he replied. That's what made it so much 
more frightening. 


Later, after the cops had withdrawn, 
seven hundred of us drifted towards 
Widener steps, where a microphone had 
been set up. The first speaker gets up to 
speak-he is a leader of SDS. "Now let's go 
to Pusey's house-with rocks" he says, and 
suddenly you come down very bard and 
very fast. The meeting degenerates into a 
shoving and shouting match as the SDS 
leadership desperately tries to hold the 
crowd together and consolidate its support. 


But nothing can be decided upon; SDS has 
seemingly lost its chance, and the meeting 
breaks up after agreeing to meet again at 
a "convocation" called by various student 
government organizations for 10 A.M. in 
Memorial Church. 


The success of that four-hour meeting in 
forestalling an SDS takeover seemed to 
indicate that the usual scenario of radicali-
zation had not really taken place. This was 
a hopeful sign since the inability of the so-
calJed "moderate" students and faculty in 
similar situations at Berkeley, Columbia 
and San Francisco State to establish a posi-
tion independent from both the administra-
tion and the radicals is commonly viewed 
as a principal cause for the bitter division 
and polarization which continue to exist. 


Harvard had traditionally resisted this 
polarization, mainly because, as Nathan 
Glazer bas said, "People seem to have con-
fidence in this place (The New York Times, 
April 13). Skillful in the art of cooperation 
and upstaging, Harvard has made such 
progress that Time Magazine was moved 
to gurgle with admiration a month ago: 
"As usual ... Harvard seems to be out-
doing the rest-or trying awfully hard. The 
nation's oldest university has gone hip, and 
no one is yet sure where the limits may lie." 


But the situation here has proved once 
again how difficult it is to organize people 
around a middle course. There was no 
existing organization with any real support 
since the three student government organi-
zations are by and large out of touch with 
anyone except student-government types. 


Perhaps the only organization that might 
have galvanized politically active liberals 
was the Young Democrats, the leader in 
last year's McCarthy campaign and at one 
point the largest campus organization. But 
Chicago, Nixon and a practically non-
existent leadership made the Young Dems 
an organization in name only, and the new, 
energetic slate of officers elected in Feb-
ruary had only begun to reorganize when 
the University Hall occupation took place. 


From the time of the Memorial Church 
meeting until the mass meeting in Soldiers 
Field four days later, an attempt was made 
to establish some sort of a moderate alter-
native. From the beginning, however, there 
was trouble because no provision had been 
made at the Church meeting for any sort 
of leadership. One person did emerge, 
however, as a de facto leader, and that was 
Ken Glazier, a senior and former Chair-
man of the Student Faculty Advisory 
Council, who, as chairman of the Memori-
al Church meeting, had done a remarkable 
job controlling a somewhat riotous gather-
ing. But other than Glazier, who had not 
been elected by any committee or meeting, 
the leadership of the "Mem Church 
Group,'' as it soon began to be called, 
changed every time you went into the Weld 
Common Room where it was based. 


In sharp contrast to the chaos in Weld 
was the SDS headquarters in the phi-
losophy department offices on the third 
floor of Emerson Hall. Scrupulously ad-
hering to democratic procedures, SDS held 
an open meeting at which 800 people chose 
between eighty-one candidates to elect a 
fifteen-man strike steering committee. All 
decisions made by this committee (all of 
whose meetings are open) are subject to the 
approval of the regular meetings of those 
who support their eight demands. From 
red fists silk-screened on T-shirts to the 
daily publishing of Old Mole strike specials 
to the endless "colloquia" and leaflets, 
their organization has shown itself to be 
incredibly enthusiastic, hard working and 
imaginative. It is hard not to be affected 
by their camaraderie and fervor, and it is 
only when they move outside of their own 
group that the dangerous anti-libertarian-
ism of their moral absolutism becomes 
apparent. 


As of today, however, SDS is clearly the 
only group capable of commanding wide-
spread support. The Mem Church Group 
announced its dissolution at the Soldiers 
Field meeting on Monday after having 
made little attempt to mobilize the mod-
erates. No group has made any attempt to 
take their place; and SDS for the most 
part has moved into a vacuum. The ad-
ministration has been unwilling to make 
any real concessions and bas made the 
moderate position an even more difficult 
one. A majority of students seem to be 
willing to accept the proposals passed by 
continued on page 14


**Title: Bethune serving Mao's people**
**Author: Jonathan Spence**
**Page number(s): 3**

"Is this muscle dead? Pinch it. Yes, it's dead. 
Cut it out.": Norman Bethune in Mao's China.


In December 1938 the Canadian doctor 
Norman Bethune was serving with ele-
ments of the Communist Chinese Army 
behind the Japanese lines in north China. 
In the cold clear hours of early morning, 
after working all day and all night, be 
marshaled his thoughts on disease and 
death:


Gangrene is a cunning, creeping fellow. Is 
this one alive? Yes, be lives. Technically 
speaking, he is alive. Give him saline intra-
venously. Perhaps the innumerable, tiny cells 
of his body will remember. They may re-
member the hot, salty sea, their ancestral 
home, their first food. With the memory of a 
million years, they may remember other tides, 
other oceans and life being born of the sea 
and sun. It may make them raise their tired 
little heads, drink deep and struggle back into 
life again. It may do that. 


And this one. Will he run along the road 
beside his mule at another harvest, with cries 
of pleasure and happiness? No, that one will 
never run again. How can you run with one 
leg? What will he do? Why, he'll sit and 
watch other boys run. What will he think? 
He'll think what you and I would think. 
What's the good of pity? Don't pity him! Pity 
would diminish his sacrifice. He did this for 
the defense of China. Help him. Lift him off 
the table. Carry him in your arms. Why, he's 
light as a child! Yes, your child, my child. 


At this time, Norman Bethune was forty-
eight years old and intimately acquainted 
with death. He had served with theCa-
nadian Army in the First World War as 
a stretcher-bearer and been seriously 
wounded. After studying medicine in 
Canada and Europe, and leading a flam-
boyant and extravagant life, he finally set 
up in private practice in Detroit, only to 
find that he had contracted virulent tuber-
culosis. He was not expected to live; on the 
walls of his sanatorium room he painted 
himself clasped in the arms of the Angel 
of Death, with the legend: "My little act is 
over, and the tiresome play is done." If 
he did nothing, he estimated, having care-
fully followed the track of his disease, he 
would be dead in 1932. "Contemplation," 
he wrote to his ex-wife, "becomes one's 
special form of action, and no one here 
can escape the changes, the discoveries, the 
greater self-knowledge that are inevitably 
the product of such enforced contem-
plation." For Bethune, self-knowledge 
brought desire to live. He insisted that he 
be used as a guinea pig in the newly de-
veloping compression treatment for 
tubercular patients known as "artificial 
pneumothorax." The treatment was suc-
cessful, and on recovery Bethune joined 
the faculty of medicine at McGill Univer-
sity as a specialist in thoracic surgery. 


His self-knowledge had brought him 
renewed life; the intellectual discoveries 
that be had made profoundly altered the 
content of that life. He began to question 
the ethics of the medical profession, where 
doctors grew rich while the myriad poor 
died of disease and undernourishment 
in the slums that the Depression had 
spawned. "There is a rich man's tuber-
culosis and poor man's tuberculosis," be 
reflected. "The rich man recovers and the 
Jonathan Spence, AssocilJte Professor of 
His tory aJ Yale, is currently in England 
doing research on the K'ang Hsi Emperor. 
poor man dies. This succinctly expresses 
the close embrace of economics and pa-
thology." He treated the poor free, began 
to examine systems of socialized medicine 
and to argue for them in public, learned 
to admire the achievements of the Russian 
Revolution: "Creation is not and never bas 
been a genteel gesture. It is rude, violent 
and revolutionary." In 1936 be was invited 
by the Committee to Aid Spanish De-
mocracy to lead a Canadian medical unit 
to Madrid, to help the Loyalists in their 
fight with Franco. The invitation confused 
and excited him. "Go to Spain? Last week 
I had to decide whether to operate on my 
child. Now I have to decide whether I go 
to Spain. I am surprised, honored-and 
perplexed. Am I the right person? Am I 
ready? Yesterday's answers seem to pre-
pare new questions for today. And tomor-
row-what? The times impose cruel and 
irreversible decisions on us!" 


Bethune reached Madrid in November 
1936. He stayed there several months, 
developing mobile blood transfusion units 
that could operate near the front line, and 
establishing the necessary blood banks to 
back them up. He saw, once again, hun-
dreds of men dying in action and the 
civilian refugees dying on the roadside. 
His anger with the Western democracies 
that stood aside while the Fascist armies 
triumphed grew even stronger. In the s~­
mer of 1937 he returned to Canada on a 
fund-raising mission and joined the Com-
munist Party. The newspapers were full 
of China. J:le could not ignore it. "I refuse 
to live in a world that spawns murder and 
corruption without raising my band against 
them. I refuse to condone, by passivity, 
or by default, the wars which greedy men 
make against others .... Spain and China 
are part of the same battle. I am going to 
China because I feel that is where the need 
is greatest; that is where I can be most 
useful." In January of 1938 he was in 
Hankow, on the YangtZe, conferring with 
Nationalist Chinese officials; by early 
March he was at Hotsin in western Shansi 
province, treating the demoralized troops 
of the war load Yen Hsi-shan: he found no 
serious cases, and was informed that this 
was because all the seriously wounded men 
had died. By the end of March he had 
crossed the Yellow. River with a small 
Communist supply team and arrived in 
Yen an. 


Yenan was Mao Tse-tung's base, the 
center of the Chinese Communist move-
ment. After the disasters of 1927, the 
Communists had either gone underground 
in the cities, or retreated to poverty-
stricken areas of the countryside, where 
they had established provisional "Soviet" 
governments. In the early thirties Mao had 
created such a government in the south-
eastern province of Kiangsi, but the un-
remitting attacks of Chiang Kai-shek, 
directed by German military advisers, had 
finally forced the Communists to retreat on 
the Long March to the northwest. It was 
on this march, in early 1935, that Mao 
had gained control of the party, and it was 
in Yenan that Mao had regrouped the scat-
tered and dispirited Communist forces. 


As his rallying cry, Mao bad adopted the 
potent slogan of "Unify China to resist 
the Japanese." Chiang Kai-shek had found 
it increasingly difficult to group his fol-
lowers round the anti-Communist cause 
while the Japanese were threatening 
China's very existence, and by mid-1937 he 
and the Communists bad once again 
formed a United Front. The Front was 
little more united than it had been in the 
early twenties, but at least a semblance of 



**Film Listings: April 25 - May 6**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Friday, April 25 
lngmar Bergman's THE SILENCE (1965) 
The culmination of Bergman's famous trilogy. 
Censored everywhere. Complete and uncut ... 

Saturday, April 26 
Samuel Fuller's PARK ROW (1952) 

Saturday, May 3 
Samuel Fuller's PICKUP ON SOUTH STREET (1953) 
and CHINA GATE (1957) 
Love. Hate. Action. Violence. Death. 8:00 only 

Tuesday, April 29 
Ingar Bergman's PERSONA (1967) 
Cinemateque Series. Shows at 4:30, 8:30, 10:30. $1.00. 

Friday, May 2 
Fritz Lang's SECRET BEYOND THE DOOR (1948) 
Nicholas Ray's RUN FOR COVER (1955) 
Esoterica at 8:00 only 

Tuesday, May 6 
WHAT'S NEW PUSSYCAT 
Peter Sellers, Ursula Andress, Woody Allen, 
Paula Prentiss, Peter O'Toole, Romy Schneider. 
Script by Woody Allen. 
Cinemateque Series. Shows at 6:30, 8:30, 10:30. $1.00. 
Comlng-Antonlonl's BLOW-UP. May 20 


**Norman Bethune in China**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

harmony was maintained. De facto recog-
nition was given by Chiang to the Com-
munists' Border Area government in the 
provinces of Shensi, Kansu and Ninghsia, 
and they were encouraged to conduct 
guerrilla operations against the Japanese 
in the northeastern area of Shansi, Chahar 
and Hopei. For their part the Communists, 
still shaky from their near defeat, and 
anxious to maintain good relations with 
the wealthier peasants in their base areas, 
had adopted a moderate program of rent 
reduction iostead of pushing for land re-
distribution, and had established the 
structure for a democratic government. 
This was the "Yenan Communism" that 
so appealed to the few Western observers 
who were able to get through to Shensi. 
They found the Communists tolerant, 
cheerful, courageous and pragmatic, and 
they reported their findings to an absorbed 
Western readership. 

Bethune was as delighted as anyone, and 
noted the contrasts between the Com-
munist and the Nationalist areas that he 
had seen: "In Hankow I found confusion, 
indecision, depressing signs of bureaucracy 
and inefficiency. In Yenan there is a sense 
of confidence and purpose in administra-
tive circles. In the towns and cities I passed 
through on my way here I became ac-
customed to the sights of semi-feudalism-
filthy dwellings, polluted streets, people in 
rags. Here, among the ancient structures, 
the streets are clean, teeming with people 
who seem to know where they're going." 

He had a lengthy interview with Mao, who 
impressed him by his knowledge of the 
Loyalist political and military leaders in 
the Spanish Civil War and was enthusi-
astic about Bethune's plan for setting up 
mobile base hospitals. He found Mao con-
vinced of the Chinese people's will to 
resist, and of the inevitability of their final 
victory, however long that might take. 
"The man is a giant!" wrote Bethune after 
the interview was over. "He is one of the 
great men of our world." 

Bethune lingered only three weeks in 
Yenan, to assemble supplies and a small 
staff, before moving out to join General 
Nieh Jung-chen's troops who were en-
sconced in the mountains between Shansi 
and Hopei. Here be was formally named 
"Medical Adviser to the Chin-Cha-Chi 
Military District," and treated his first 
Communist patients: "The wounded are 
crawling with lice. They all have only one 
uniform, and that they have on. It is filthy 
with the accumulated dirt of nine months' 
fighting. Their bandages have been washed 
so often they are now nothing but dirty 
rags. Three men, one with the loss of both 
feet through frost-bite gangrene, have no 
clothes at all to wear. There is only a 
coverlet for them. Their food is boiled 
millet-that's all. All are anaemic and 
underfed. Most of them are slowly dying 
of sepsis and starvation. Many have tuber-
culosis." It was worse even than Spain, but 
Bethune felt a definite sense of exaltation, 
for this was his true destination. "I am in 
the centre of the centre of the war. Now I 
can truly taste the strange, exalted ftavor 
of this stupendous struggle." 

This was guerrilla war: small groups of 
Communist troops, cooperating with local 
peasant partisans, to harass the Japanese 
all over north China. They filled in the 
defensive ditches dug by the Japanese, cut 
telephone and power lines, derailed trains, 
blew bridges. Isolated detachments of 
Japanese troops would be surrounded and 
killed, their captured weapons going to 
arm fresh guerrillas; occasionally a Jap-
anese convoy or blockhouse might be 
attacked by Communist forces of battalion 
strength or greater. Before Japanese re-
inforcements could be brought up, the 
guerrillas would retreat back to the moun-
tains, the partisans return to their villages. 
Under these villages were networks of 
tunnels, growing in length and complexity 
each year of the war, where food, weapons, 
and the soldiers themselves could be 
hidden. At first the Japanese responded 
sluggishly, but as the guerrilla attacks 
grew in intensity-in some areas the Jap-
anese needed eighty soldiers to guard a 
single mile of rail line--they resorted to 
violent countermeasures: burning whole 
villages, and either shooting the inhabitants 
or transporting them to "safer" areas. But 
this policy backfired; the Communists, 
who had always used their regular forces 
also as an educated vanguard, setting up 
schools and politically indoctrinating the 
villages, found that Japanese atrocities 
made the peasants more, not less, respon-
sive to their message. 

It was in this shifting, bitter violent war 
that Bethune had to develop some kind of 
a hospital system. He had a staff of five 
Chinese doctors, and no other skilled 
assistance at all, to serve several hundred 
square miles of mountainous country and 
over one hundred thousand regular and 
irregular troops. His solution was to attack 
all problems simultaneously: he cleaned up 
and reorganized the existing base "hos-
pitals" (which were usually long-aban-
doned temples with no facilities of any 
kind); he taught orderlies the basic prin-
ciples of hospital hygiene and application 
of field dressings; showed villagers how to 
make splints, stretchers and bandages; 
wrote a textbook to be used in nursing and 
medical schools; and by patient and re-
iterated example persuaded the local 
people first to give their blood for emerg-
ency operations and then to form volunteer 
blood donor corps. The exaltation passed, 
to be replaced by a deep and simple satis-
faction: "I am tired, but I don't think I 
have been so happy for a long time. I am 
content. I am doing what I want to do. 
And see what my riches consist of! I have 
vital work that occupies every moment of 
my time. I am needed. More than that-
to satisfy my bourgeois vanity-the need 
for me is expressed." 

As soon as the base hospital was in rea-
sonable running order Bethune was off to 
the battle zones, to implement his plan for 
mobile field-hospitals. For the last year of 
his life, from October 1938 until Novem-
ber 1939, he was to follow the ever-mobile 
Communist armies as they jabbed at the 
Japanese strong points and communica-
tions, then retreated before the inevitable 
Japanese counterattacks. 

Bethune's new watchword was "Doc-
tors: Go to the wounded. Don't wait for 
the wounded to come to you." To accomp-
lish this goal, he developed a miniature 
unit in which everything was planned to 
the last detail. Bethune and his orderlies 
traveled on horseback, and two mules car-
ried all the necessities for handling one 
hundred patients at a time and equipping 
an operating room, a dressing station and 
a drug room: splints, bandages, surgical 
instruments, disinfectants and chloroform. 
The operating theater was any weather-
proof building near the battle zone-often 
within three miles of the firing line; natur-
ally the setup was crude, but it was better 
than anything that had existed previously. 
When anaesthetic ran out, as it frequently 
did, operations and amputations were 
carried on without it. If the Japanese 
approached the mobile station and could 
not be stopped by local troops, Bethune 
and his staff were ready to move everything 
at ten minutes' notice and ride to safety. 
The non-walking wounded had to be left 
hidden in the villages. 

T he work was unceasing. Bethune him-
self regularly put in an eighteen-hour-day, 
' and drove his staff ruthlessly, insisting the 
while on the highest technical standards 
conceivable in the circumstances. When 
the 359th Brigade of the Eighth Route 
Army attacked a Japanese column on the 
road from Kwangling to Lingkiu in the 
mountainous northeastern corner of 
Shansi, Bethune, who had ridden seventy-· 
five miles to the scene, performed seventy-
one minor and major operations in forty 
hours. In early March 1939, he treated 115 
casualties in a sixty-nine-hour stretch. 

When he had spare moments, he wrote of 
his experiences in a savage, lyrical prose: 
Old filthy bandages stuck to the skin with 
blood glue. Careful. Better moisten first. 
Through the thigh. Pick the leg up. Why, it's 
like a bag, a long, loose, red stocking. What 
kind of stocking? A Christmas stocking. 
Where's that fine, strong rod of bone now? In 
a dozen pieces. Pick them out with your fin-
hers; white as dog's teeth, sharp and jagged. 
Now feel. Any more left? Yes, here. All? Yes, 
no, here's another piece. Is this muscle dead? 
Pinch it. Yes, it's dead. Cut it out. How can 
that heal? How can those muscles, once so 
strong, now so torn, so devastated, so ruined, 
resume their proud tension? Pull, relax. Pull, 
relax. What fun it was! Now that is finished. 
Now that's done. Now we are destroyed. Now 
what will we do with ourselves? 

In the course of the year 1939 Norman 
Bethune systematically worked himself to 
death. The legends around his name multi-
plied in the villages and mountains of 
northeast China; his name was invoked as 
a battle cry; as the Communist government 
in Yenan strengthened its organizational 
structure in Shensi and extended its control 
over the newly mobilized peasantry, 
Bethune received ever stronger backing 
and popular support, but his work in-
creased proportionately. At the age of 
forty-nine he looked seventy: white-haired, 
flesh sunken, teeth ruined. He had spells of 
dizziness. He became deaf in one ear. But 
if depression was there, he masked it total-
ly. Only occasionally did he even express 
nostalgia for his past life, his former 
friends. "Are books still being written?" 
he asked in a letter to Canada. "Is music 
still being played? Do you dance, drink 
beer, look at pictures? What do clean 
sheets feel like in a soft bed? Do women 
still love to be loved?" 

In October he was given the chance to go 
back to the United States and Canada on 
a fund-raising trip, to buy desperately 
needed medical supplies. He passed the op-
portunity by and went instead to Laiyuan 
in west Hopei, where the Japanese had 
mounted a strong new attack. In early No-
vember he slashed his finger during a hur-
ried operation while the Japanese were 
moving in on his unit. His unit escaped, 
but in the harried days that followed he 
neglected to treat the finger, which grew 
seriously infected. He insisted on continu-
ing to operate on Chinese troops, as his 
own health weakened. His arm swelled, 
and he drily diagnosed septicemia. "I am 
fatally ill. I am going to die," he told Gen-
eral Nieh in a brief Jetter that was also his 
last will and testament. He bequeathed his 
two cots and his English shoes to the Gen-
eral; his riding boots and trousers were 
willed to the local divisional commander. 
His surgical instruments were carefully 
shared between the C hinese doctors with 
whom he had worked. His aides received 
a blanket each. "The last two years," he 
concluded, "have been the most significant, 
the most meaningful years of my life. 
Sometimes it has been lonely, but I have 
found my highest fulfillment here among 
my beloved comrades. I have no strength 
now to write more .... To you and to all 
my comrades, a thousand thanks." On 
November 13, at dawn, Bethune died. 

Bethune was an emotional, irascible, 
talented man. He had incredible self-
discipline, but did not submit to discipline 
imposed by others. He had drawn strength 
from the comradeship of communism but 
it is unlikely that he would have made a 
good Communist, even though he bad a 
clear enough view of the capitalist enemy, 
as can be seen from the questions he asked 
himself in the Chinese winter, amid the 
smells of blood and chloroform: 

What do these enemies of the human race look 
like? Do they wear on their foreheads a sign 
so that they may be told, shunned and con-
demned as criminals? No. On the contrary, 
they are the respectable ones. They are hon-
ored. They call, and are called, gentlemen. 
What a travesty on the name! Gentlemen! 
They are the pillars of the State, of the church, 
of society. They support private and public 
charity out of the excess of their wealth. They 
endow institutions. In their private lives they 
are kind and considerate. They obey the law, 
their law, the law of property. But there is one 
sign by which these gentle gunmen can be 
told. Threaten a reduction on the profit of 
their money and the beast in them awakes 
with a snarl. They become as ruthless as sav-
ages, brutal as madmen, remorseless as exe-
cutioners. Such men as these must perish if 
the human race is to continue. There can be 
no permanent peace in the world while they 
live. Such an organization of human society 
as permits them to exist must be abolished. 
These men make the wounds. 

Bethune's experiences had given him the 
right to dream of a world without wounds, 
though he was not concerned with tb.e de-
tails of how such a world would be at-
tained. The Chinese might have an answer 
and that was sufficient. In the meantime 
there were more than enough wounds to 
keep a thousand Bethunes occupied, and 
an endless succession of children waiting 
in the wings to be wounded in their turn. 
Certainly he had no expectation of seeing 
that world himself; he wooed death tena-
ciously, although his work was barely 
begun. The patterns of his life, and the 
manner of his leaving it, show that 
Bethune did not simply go to China to save 
wounded soldiers who would otherwise 
have died, nor even to be in the forefront 
of the world struggle against fascism or 
capitalism. He went to China to expiate the 
sins of his generation, to purge himself of 
the apathy and callousness and pursuit of 
profit he believed had rotted his civiliza-
tion. His technical brilliance was the entry 
card into a society that would otherwise 
have rejected him. No Jess than other 
Western advisers he used the Chinese for 
his own ends and was in turn used by them. 
He differed from all others, however, in 
that he used the Chinese to attain a mean-
ingful death. 

In the same hut in Shansi, where he cried 
out at those who made wounds, he also 
wrote: "How beautiful the body is; how 
perfect its parts; with what precision it 
moves; how obedient; proud and strong. 
How terrible when torn. The little flame 
of life sinks lower and lower, and with a 
flicker goes out. It goes out like a candle 
goes out. Quietly and gently.lt makes its 
protest at extinction, then submits. It has 
its say, then is silent." ~ 

**GHOSTS**
**Author: Henrik Ibsen**
**Page number(s): 5**

by Henrik Ibsen 
Mildred Dunnock 
Mildred Dunnock returns as Mrs. Alving, the fascinating matriarch 
of a family haunted by a curse. How are the sins of the past 
resurrected in the present? Discover why Ibsen, regarded as the 
father of modern drama, countered the controversy about his 
play by retorting to the King of Sweden at a public reception, 
"Your Majesty, I had to write GHOSTS!" 
May 2-May 24, 1969 
222 Sargent Drive, New Haven. Box Office 787-4282 
Free limousine service from Hotel Taft. Sat. 4:30 
Shows: Mon.-Fri. 8:30. Sat. 5 and 9. Tickets at Yale Co-op. 


**The Summer High School-Was it Really 'God's great green educational heaven?'**
**Author: Paul Goldberger**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

"We're going to call it School One," says 
Larry Paros, and his eyes gleam and his 
hands move. "It will be School One be-
cause it wiJl be the first of its kind. It will 
be free from the bonds of traditional edu-
cation. It will be the laboratory school 
we've tried to get all these years. It will be 
followed, "-and here his voice builds up-
"it will be followed by School Two, and 
Three, and Four .... " 

Lawrence Paros is determined to create 
this. school. He wants it because he con-
siders himself a fine and progressive 
educator, but also because he needs a job. 
He will be out of work on June 30 when 
his contract as Director of the Yale Sum-
mer High School runs out. 

Yale's decision not to renew that coo-
tract set off a winter-long controversy 
about the University's basic educational 
philosophy. But the reasons Yale fired 
Larry Paros have little to do with the 
Singer Report or Yale's supposed racist 
inclinations. They have a lot to do with 
Larry Paros himself, who has spent most 
of his time since the November day he 
learned about his dismissal dreaming 
about School One and preparing an elab-
orate defense that has thus far involved 
personal attacks on members of the Sum-
mer High School administration, a Her-
culean 350-page report prepared entirely 
at Yale's expense, and the aid and comfort 
of the Yale Daily News. 

It all began back last spring when Paros 
unveiled the new core curriculum for 
1968, which was to be his second year as 
Director of the Summer High School. The 
basis for study was race, and relevant 
literary, philosophical and historical ma-
terials were to be used. Paros was anxious 
to increase the program's appeal to under-
privileged students. He felt few qualms 
about accepting inner-city students with 
severe problems of emotional adjustment 
to Yale and college life, confident thauhe 
core curriculum theme would prevent any 
difficulties. Indeed, Paros was so con-
cerned about the inclusion of "alienated" 
youth that, without authority from the 
Yale administration, he accepted thirty 
students more than the program had been 
designed for-thus setting the stage for a 
Yale Summer High School fiscal crisis that 
was to reach monumental proportions 
later in the summer. 

The students arrived in late June and the 
core curriculum, along with courses in 
composition, math seminar electives, arts 
workshops and athletic activities, went 
into effect. Everything looked tine until 
tutors began to realize that students were 
not regularly attending classes. As atten-
dance dropped, morale also began to falter, 
and the "relevant" core curriculum began 
to seem strangely out of place in a school 
troubled with increasingly severe discip-
linary and educational problems. The 
emphasis on race had partially backfired: 
"A white man will not make a good black 
militant, like so many whites have tried 
to do at Yale this summer," said one 
black student. 

The summer ended on an uncertain 
note. Many students, especially those who 
were returning after more traditional 
YSHS summers, hated it; others called it 
the greatest experience of their lives. Fac-
ulty, too, were divided: some staff members 
viewed Paros as the unsung genius of 
twentieth-century education, while others 
saw him as the direct cause of the Summer 
High School's downfall. 

Paros admits that he was controversial. 
Yet he has managed to manipulate the 
facts so that the heart of the controversy 
has never come to light. He was in fact 
discharged not because the University was 
adopting the Singer Report's recommenda-
tion that the Summer High become a 
funnel of blacks into Yale, but because the 
1968 session was, from the point of view 
of its administration, a failure. Though the 
University does agree with many of the 
Singer recommendations (for example, the 
altogether reasonable position that the 
Summer High School should not simply 
duplicate the Upward Bound program), 
Paros was fired more because of his in-
ability to deal with "alienated" students 
than because he preferred them to those 
with "college potential." 

D. Peter Ciochetto, Director of Com-
position and a four-year YSHS veteran, 
recalls, "Discipline last summer was im-
possible. There are too many incidents to 
list: destruction of property, disregard of 
curfews and so on. Larry Paros totally 
abdicated his authority; he didn't like to 
be an administrator, so he wasn't one." 

Paros could probably neither answer 
yes or no to the charge of being lax; his 
bead was all too often in the clouds last 
summer. He preferred to think of dis-
cipline in terms of the abstract; to him 
there were only vague realities of drug, 
sexual and theft problems in the Summer 
High School. In the Director's Report-
Paras's 350-page account of the program 
-he writes in theoretical terms: "We con-
ceived the purpose of education to be the 
facilitation of self control, a turning on 
from the inside through the mediation of 
sympathetic structures, ideas and persons." 

Such language sounds impressive-until 
the cold facts of excessive drug use, an 
alleged rape case and ·a tutor whose room 
was ransacked by students are added to the 
saga of the summer. 

Many of the students enjoyed the free 
atmosphere: "This program was a wonder-
ful experience for me and I will never for-
get it. Larry Paros is a real soul brother," 
said one girl. She was not alone in her 
admiration of the Director. Edgar F. 
Beckham, Wesleyan University professor 
who spent two and one half days at Yale 
evaluating the program for Educational 
Associates Incorporated, wrote in a letter 
toParos: 

The thing that struck me most about the Yale 
Summer High School was the thoughtfulness 
and depth of the theoretical design .... The 
intellectual implications of the core course 
bad been worked out in great detail, and even 
the behavior of students had been antici-
pated, interpreted and worked into a concep-
tual framework. In short, I thought the pro-
gram was extremely well conceived. 

But the feeling among more than a few 
faculty members, who were on campus for 
more than Beckham's two and a half days, 
was that the program seriously lacked di-
rection. Michael Frank, a staff tutor, noted, 
"I am unable to say whether or not YSHS 
'68 has been successful because I stiJl don't 
know what our goals are . ... There is a 
fundamental ambivalence." 

Educationally, the 1968 session was in 
fact an attempt to reconcile Paros's per-
sonal preference foJ;: a laissez-faire ad-
ministration with a highly demanding core 
curriculum-a course plan challenging 
enough for college-bound students, let 
alone for the students from less privileged 
backgrounds who Paros insisted were the 
Summer High School's raison d' etre. It is 
hardly surprising that there emerged a 
"fundamental ambivalence." 

John Hildebidle, a Harvard graduate 
student who served as Head Tutor, ob-
served this about the discipline problem: 

The question is basically: Who is running 
the school? The Director, the students, or no 
one? This year the theory claimed that the 
Director was in charge; the Director tried to 
play the coy mistress, making illusory gestures 
toward a "democracy"; that in fact amounted 
to a dictatorship by students. The practice 
and experience of this summer has brought 
me to the conclusion that no one was "run-
ning" or directing the program in any useful, 
productive, intelligent sense .... We seem 
willing to ignore the fact that a student who 
never goes to class, who takes five days off 
illegally, who shoots heroin, may just have 
a deleterious effect on other students .... 
We must realize that we are not God's great 
green educational heaven .... 

Paros never replied directly to Hildebidle 
or Frank, for the tutors' comments were 
made in an anthology of faculty evalua-
tions prepared at the summer's end. Tra-
ditionally, the anthology is distributed to 
the Administrative Board of the Summer 
High School and becomes an important 
factor in the review of the year; this time, 
however, Paros withheld copies of the 
critical report. Members of the Board and 
staff writers of the Yale Daily News, who 
thought they were getting the "full story," 
were never even made aware of the anthol-
ogy's existence. 

At the summer's end not only was the 
Summer High School at an educational 
impasse; its finances were also in crisis. 
Paros claims that Joel L. Fleishman, As-
sociate Provost for Urban Studies and 
Programs and YSHS's Director during 
J 965-66, failed to fulfill a pledge to raise 
$25,000 in extra funds. Fleishman did 
raise $19,600, thus falling only $5,400 
short of his promise. But Paros insists that 
Fleishman's pledge was for $25,000 more 
than the $19,600 Fleishman raised. 

Had the $25,000 been raised, it still 
would not have cleared the program's 
deficit, despite Paros's claims. Not only did 
Paros accept thirty students more than the 
program could easily accommodate; he 
also failed to budget for overhead, stating 
that he was never "told" to do so. The 
University Comptroller's Office, however, 
has sent Paros official financial statements 
which include overhead figures for every 
month since he assumed the directorship 
of the Summer High School-statements 
which, it appears, Paros never read. 

Estimates of the deficit now range as 
high as $100,000.lt is clear that the Uni-
versity did commit one clerical error, but 
at least three-quarters of the deficit still 
stems from Paros's failure to estimate the 
summer's costs properly. The situation has 
become so confused that Yale bas called 
in outside auditors to review the books. 

The combination of YSHS's financial 
woes and its educational crisis was the 
real reason for Yale's decision to dis-
charge Paros. Unfortunately, the Yale 



**The Paros Affair**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
71 The New Journal I April27, 1969 
administration decided last fall to "regu-
larize" summer program appointments, 
and just before his dismissal Paros received 
notification of the advancement of his 
contract termination from September, 
1969 to June, 1969. The resulting con-
fusion, plus the concurrent issuing of the 
Singer Report, led Paros to charge that it 
was administrative politicking, rather than 
the Summer High School situation itself, 
that led to his dismissal. 

Not that administrative politicking did 
not exist-it did at several turns in the story. 
But the administration's major offense, its 
failure to make public the full reasons for 
Paros's dismissal, is hardly sufficient to 
shift the burden of blame from Paros. Most 
likely, the administration's motives for 
concealing its reasons ranged from dismay 
at Paro's management of YSHS and a de-
sire to protect his reputation to disagree- . 
ment with his educational philosophy. But 
the administration cannot be blamed for 
not wanting to shift the issue to a debate of 
educational philosophy when it was faced 
with a simple problem of mismanagement. 
Paros claims he never wanted his job back. 
Perhaps not, but he has spent the bulk of 
his time since his dismissal preparing the 
Summer High School's annual Director's 
Report, which he has turned into a 350-
page apologium for himself and his edu-
cational philosophy. Along with one of his 
asso'ciate directors, Jonathan Hall, and 
with the partial help of Associate Director 
Isaac Miller, Paros has added chapter after 
chapter to the report, promising that it 
will be ready "next week" at regular inter-
vals since January. The irony of the 
finished document is that it is not what was 
called for in the first place. Officially, the 
Director's Report should be only a brief 
review of the summer for the use of the 
university administration; this version, 
however, includes quotations from Alice 
in W onder land, exerpts from educational 
journals, SHS student evaluations, the 
financial charges, defenses of Paros's edu-
cational methods, and his proposals for 
restructuring Yale and establishing 
School One. The salaries, secretarial costs 
and photocopy expenses that have gone to 
produce the 350-page white elephant are 
estimated at substantially over ten thou-
sand dollars, all of which Paros is charging 
to the Yale Summer High School. For an 
educator so concerned that the under-
privileged receive a larger share of the pie, 
be has been strikingly lax with education 
funds since his dismissal. 

Paros bad actuaJly been working on the 
Report at the time of his dismissal; it was 
not until he demanded that the University 
reveal its "secret" motives for firing him 
that the controversy broke wide open. 
Paros was told that he had been dismissed 
because of the program's need for a direc-
tor from the Yale faculty, a requirement 
of the Office of Economic Opportunity, 
which heavily funds the program. The 
Singer Report, however, also made the 
recommendation of a faculty director, 
and again the administration's statement 
of fact led to confusion. 

Paros knew a good thing when be saw 
it. He made certain that Alan Boles, then 
chairman of the Yale Daily News, knew 
of the Singer Report and the easy connec-
tion that could be made between its recom-
mendations and his dismissal. A brief 
conversation ensued, and the Daily News 
was firmly ensconced in the Paros camp. 
The first Summer High School story, 
"Singer Report Comes Under Fire," ap-
peared on December 19. 

After Christmas and the January exam 
period, the 1970 editorial board took over 
the reins of the News, and they, too, knew 
a good thing when they saw it. The Daily 
News greeted the second semester with a 
lead story by Douglas Hallett, who has 
since taken charge of the paper's c<Werage 
of the controversy. The story included a 
statement supporting Paros, signed by 25 
of the 42 members of the YSHS faculty. 
But it is questionable whether the signers 
knew what they were signing. Peter 
Ciochetto, listed as a signer, states that 
he was never shown the document. 
"Jonathan Hall telephoned me and asked 
if my name could be used in a statement 
protesting the administration's refusal to 
give Paros reasons for his dismissal," 
Ciochetto states. "I have only now found 
out that it was really an endorsement of 
the way Paros ran the school." 

Paros and HaH deny charges of "con-
spiracy" between themselves and the 
News. But to state that the News's coverage 
has been biased is like saying that Carmen 
Cozza roots for the Bulldogs. "Conspiracy" 
or not, the Daily News and Paros have 
been on the same team since the contro-
versy started. Typical of News stories have 
been features such as "The Singer Report: 
Is Experiment Dead?" which Paros re-
printed in the Director's Report. 

On January 30, Hallett reported in the 
News that President Brewster had told him 
that the report had been endorsed "in 
principle" by the Yale Corporation. 
Brewster later denied the statement. The 
News printed both his denial and Hallett's 
charge that Brewster, by the denial, had 
called Hallett's story of January 30 a lie. 
Indeed, at times the News has become 
more zealous than even Paros and Hall. 
Richard Sewall, Professor of English and 
former chairman of the Administrative 
Board of the Summer High School, has 
been one of the few administration mem-
bers working hard for an amicable settle-
ment of the dispute. Yet, when Sewall 
expressed certain doubts about the 1968 
program, Hallett wrote in his column 
about "an English teacher who waxes elo-
quently about Shakespearean tragedy and 
refuses to face his own tragic cowardice 
in his relationship to the Summer High 
School." 

Throughout, the News has placed em-
phasis on the Singer Report's phrase, 
"Yale is an elitist institution," a somewhat 
siJly but fundamentally innocent state-
ment of irrefutable fact that was unfairly 
interpreted as an all-encompassing pre-
scription for Yale's future. 

But try as it did-and it did-the Daily 
News was unable to drum up significant 
student support for the issue. The nebul-
ous connection between the Singer Report 
and the Summer High School issue kept 
on looking somewhat nebulous, and Hal-
lett's personal attacks added liUle to the 
News's credibility. On March 11, theN ews 
expanded its targets to include Fleishman, 
under whose office the Summer High 
School operates, and Jonathan Fanton, 
coordinator of special education programs, 
stating that the Singer Report wanted not 
blacks as human beings but "mini-Brew-
sters, mini-Fleishmans and mini-Fantons." 

The warm winds of spring brought the 
Daily News's last big blitz. The April 4 
special supplement OQ. the Singer Report 
·included the entire text plus several 
columns confirming the News's commit-
ment to the fallacy of the direct ti~in 
between the Report and Paros's dismissal. 
The supplement had been written almost 
two months before its publication. 

Paros and Hall insist that the main issue 
is not the Summer High School itself but 
the administration's refusal to discuss the 
firing at an open hearing. But Paros was 
invited to appear before the Administrative 
Board on two different occasions, both of 
which be refused, stating that the Board's 
"bad faith" made it impossible for him to 
deal with matters "after the fact." 

Only an open hearing would do, Paros 
said, adding that he sees no other way to 
deal with issues in a free university. Paros's 
interest in free dialogue, however, seems 
largely restricted to his own side of the 
story. While not criticizing the News's 
coverage except to state it relied too much 
on the "personal," he reacted to news that 
The New Journal was planning a less fav-
orable view of the Summer High School 
by demanding that he have complete edit-
ing rights. 

The chances of Yale accepting Larry 
Paros's School One proposal, which makes 
up the core of the conclusion of his report, 
are virtually nonexistent. Law School 
faculty member Larry Simon, next year's 
Director, is well into planning for this sum-
mer, and soon Larry Paros, Jonathan Hall 
and "Ike" Miller-who has done most of 
last year's follow-up work while Hall and 
Paros have prepared the report-will all 
be on their way. 

What can be learned from the contro-
versy? The story of Larry Paros's tenure 
at Yale is a sad one. He came in 1967 with 
an outstanding reputation as a creative 
educator in the New Haven school sys-
tem. He planned an exciting program for 
the summer of 1968. But it was impossible 
to reconcile his academically challenging 
curriculum with the sort of students and 
the pseudo-democratic community he in-
sisted on having. Many students profited. 
But many did not. And Paros' financial 
mismanagement cast a further pall on the 
Summer High School's reputation. 

The Yale Summer High School 1968 
represented the failure of a fundamentally 
good idea. But almost as unfortunate is the 
failure of Larry Paros to admit how he 
erred. Driven by a moral self-righteous-
ness, he pieced together a defense that 
resulted in irresponsible acts on the part 
of the university newspaper, injured repu-
tations, and the whittling away of thou-
sands of dollars of potentially constructive 
money for a massive report that totally 
evaded the issue at hand. 

It is clearly 'Jess exciting to see a story 
end with the administration in the right. 
A dashing radical defeating establishment 
bigotry and backwardness and triumphant-
ly leading the forces of progress onward-
that is always much more fun to read 
about. But that's not the way it happened 
here. 


**A New Commons for All of Yale**
**Author: Peter Hoyt**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

by Peter Hoyt 
The proposition is this: turn Commons and 
Woolsey Hall into a university community 
center, a new Commons for all of Yale. 
Such a center should be a place that cuts 
across the academic, residential and social 
barriers that fragment this community; it 
should be a place that welcomes students, 
faculty, staff and people from New Haven 
into its halls. 

Woolsey Hall and Commons already 
have many advantages and uses. Sited at 
the heart of the University, providing the 
critical link between the older campus and 
the newer science centers and future resi-
dential campus along Prospect Street, they 
are already the New Haven community's 
principal connection with the University. 
Commons is used for banquets on an aver-
age of once a week, and many of these are 
held by non-Yale groups. Woolsey Hall is 
used three time a week for symphony con-
certs, rock concerts and high school gradu-
ations. They face out upon one of the best 
places for a demonstration anywhere, the 
Beinecke Plaza, which with some minor 
surgery could become a very pleasant ur-
ban space filled with activity and people. 

The buildings themselves are basically 
simple structures, suited to remodeling 
and possessing a vast amount of unused 
and wasted space. 

The facilities in the new center would 
encourage the informal meetings and so-
cial activities that the more restricted aca-
demic and residential centers now deny. 
The heart of the center should be a new 
Yale Station. It is a facility that draws 
almost everyone to it daily. Along with 
serving as a center for the distribution of 
mail, it is the communication hub of the 
University with its bulletin boards, posters, 
notices, salesmen and recruiters appealing 
to all who enter. The present Yale Station 
was created in 1900 and moved to Wright 
Hall after Berkeley College was built. Its 
location there was supposed to be tem-
porary. There are now 1800 student boxes, 
and the overcrowding is so severe that the 
Post Office is threatening to close down 
unless a new arrangement can be planned 
very soon. The new station should be lo-
cated on the main floor of Commons and 
be visually and spacially related to th~ 
~\t~-f"'l" l__un,Q,_\_\('wn.\n(L ~-.a.-~-; ..... ..t.Ao. .. '-~"' 'f'•d• .. tw-\'!.~ 
a.. ... - ..... _ o--.___,-"\~ ..... - -- ,. ....... , n...... _ 
home of Yale's three film societies which 
now use the uncomfortable, inadequate 
and unventilated facilities in Linsly-Chlt-
tenden Hall. Space could be leased to 
commercial establishments such as a new 
university bookstore offering a good va-
riety of magazines and underground news-
papers-and, if we're lucky, a place to 
sit and read. 

There is also enough room to provide 
ample new office space for student organi-
zations. WYBC, the Banner, the Lit, the 
Record, APO and the Associated Student 
Agencies are looking for space because of 
the planned destruction of Hendrie Hall 
in December, 1970. In the rotunda would 
be located the new Information and Tour 
Bureau, providing assistance to thousands 
of visitors who come to the campus an-
nually. 

Woolsey Hall needs remodeling also. 
Although the acoustics in the hall leave 
something to be desired and are essen-
tially impossible to improve, the seating 
could be replaced and a new entrance 
lobby could be built along the Beinecke 
Plaza side of the hall to accommodate 
crowds at intermissions. Master Beekman 
Cannon of Jonathan Edwards College, 
President of the New Haven Symphony, 
stated that Woolsey Hall is essential to the 
community and that no new facility was 
forseen even in the distant future. There 
is a desperate need, he says, to accommo-
date crowds of people at intermission, 
to provide better exits, new seating and a 
place for refreshments. 

A super snack bar open 24 hours every 
day would be included in the scheme. With 
easy access to the libraries and classrooms 
it would become a welcome, reliable oasis 
for weary students and professors. During 
the warmer months an outdoor cafe on the 
plaza would be set up offering an excellent 
place to meet and to indulge in people 
watching. Dorothy Kalins's analysis of out-
door cafes in New York Magazine gives an 
indication of Beinecke Plaza's desirability 
as a cafe site. 

Outdoor cafes in New York have never 
really made it as successful looking-places. 
The main problem is distance. Sidewalks 
simply are not wide enough. So the cafe turns 
. 
given by the architects ... are imposing 
ones, and when carried out we shall have 
one of the noblest examples of college 
architecture in the whole civilized world. 
... On this two hundredth anniversary of 
the founding of the College, the structures 
we raise shall last a thousand years." 

The idea of a new university community 
center is not hopelessly unrealistic. The 
space for all these activities exists already. 
The dining room is 208 feet long, 60 feet 
high and 68 feet wide; it can seat about 
1200 people. The roof trusses are made of 
beam~ 18 inches square, carved from huge 
Jogs towed by ship from Seattle around 
Cape Horn to New Haven in 1899. 

Woolsey Hall, named after the tenth 
President of Yale, seats 3000 people and 
is connected to Commons by Memorial 
Hall, honoring the Yale men killed in the 
nation's wars. Above the Rotunda is the 
President's Room, with dining space for 
144 people, and above that a huge domed 
room with an oculus, now used to store 
a collection of musical instruments. These 
buildings could be remodeled without de-
stroying their beauty. The facilities sug-
gested are just a few of many that might 
be included in the center. However, this 
community is in for a rude shock if it ex-
pects Mother Yale to provide the necessary 
funds to make the center a reality. The 
reasons are many. Why should Yale worry 
about the social life of its junior faculty 
or graduate students? They're old enough 
to fend for themselves. Why should a 
social center have greater priority than 
libraries, laboratories, dormitories or con-
tributions to Mayor Lee? A new Commons 
would rank low on a list of priorities. The 
reasons go on; but the picture is clear, 
and students and faculty continue to press 
for a solution to the problem. 

There is currently a valid desire being ex-
pressed by students and faculty to be in-
cluded in the decision-making processes of 
this institution. In the realm of the the so-
cial life of the University, the right of the 
community to decide on its own social pat-
terns and facilities is clearly evident. Here 
is one way this could be accomplished: 
l'r._~~~c;j~~uHm:'~rsity were to tur~-
mrurOI COJIIJIIOIJS11ilu~v ·. 

constructed at the level of the existing bal-
conies and window sills would be the new 
banquet hall. It would retain the sense of 
spaciousness of the old Commons yet pro-
vide its patrons with views of the Plaza and 
the cemetery and a more pleasant and 
cheerful environment in which to eat and 
relax. Its serving lines would be open to 
everyone for lunch, catering specifically 
to the graduate students, faculty and staff 
with restricted transfers to undergraduates. 
A number of private dining rooms would 
be provided to serve the great demand for 
a suitable spot for departmental and staff 
lunches as well as student-organization 
lunches. 

In the basement there is room for a five-
hundred seat auditorium-cinema where 
lectures and classes could be held during 
the day. At night it would become the new 
Peter Hoyt is a third-year architecture 
student. 
and railings, somehow removing the voyeur-
istic mystique that Parisian cafes have so long 
nurtured .... The only outdoor cafe that 
works in the city is the Park Cafe at Bethesda 
· Fountain. Tables are far enough apart ... 
and dining areas line aisles especially geared 
for prime entrance-and-exit-watching .... 
The quality of distance is vital to voyeuristic 
experience, particularly in public spaces. 
Actually, Beinecke Plaza is not Beinecke 
Plaza at all; it is the Hewitt Quadrangle. 
The Beineckes are said to be very touchy 
about this distinction, especially when a 
demonstration occurs there and it is later 
reported in the Times as Beinecke Plaza. 
Looks bad for the family and all that. 
Woolsey Hall and Commons, designed 
by the New York firm of Carrere and 
Hastings, were erected in 1900 as the 
Bicentennial Buildings. They were built in 
just over a year at a cost of $750,000. 
President Hadley, speaking to the New 
York Yale Ch,1b, declared: ''The plans 
The corporation board would oeefected 
by all the members of the Yale community 
and would be composed of faculty, stu-
dents and staff. Suppose further that reno-
vation of these buildings were to cost two 
million dollars and that a mortgage was 
arranged by Yale out of its investment 
funds. Each member of the community 
might be taxed a small amount to cover 
the payment of the mortgage and operating 
expenses, although it is assumed that the 
dining hall and auditoriums would con-
tinue to be self supporting. This scheme 
would permit the community to make its 
own decisions and would skirt the problem 
of competing for the University's financial 
resources. 

For a community center to be successful 
the community must decide what it wants 
and then act. If it waits for Yale, then it 
must accept the delays, the compromises 
and the continuing dullness as a reward 
for its own inaction. 



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Daniel Peters**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10 I The New Journal I April27, 1969 
You can charge anything at Neiman-Marcus, 
except, maybe, masculinity; some Maileresque 
thoughts on why we are in Vietnam. 
by Daniel Peters 
Daniel Peters, an English major and a 
guard on the Yale basketball team, wrote 
this piece as a ·paper for Charles Reich's 
American Studies course. It found its way 
to us and we are printing it so that one 
person may share some interesting and 
honest ideas with the rest of the com-
munity. 

Daniel Peters glanced around the Dallas 
airport, not taking much of it in, feeling 
glad just to be on the ground once more. 
The trip from West Virginia had been a 
long one, and though the sky was cloud-
less, the jet had encountered turbulence as 
it approached Dallas. It was as if the placid 
blue had been a front for the treacherous 
winds that raged below it. 

Most of the team had survived the buf-
feting with few ill effects; after the Alleghe-
ny flight to West Virginia, only a hurricane 
could have appeared horrible in contiTast. 
Of course Bill Kosturko, the third-string 
center, was sick again. He was beginning to 
be known as "Biap-bag·Bill," and his fame 
was spreading from airline to airline. 

In the cab on the way to the hotel, 
Daniel's mind bad reasserted its domi-
nance over his stomach, and he examined 
the passing scenery with the curiosity he 
usually invested in towns he saw for the 
first time. He noted the large variety of 
shrubbery that crowded the yards of the 
homes they passed. "And what kinds t>f 
beasts and reptiles inhabit these }lome-
grown jungles?" he thought. Probably spit-
ing cobras and big old Dallas mountain 
lions. It was startling to see the many 
Lincolns and Cadillacs standing like pagan 
idols in the midst of the slick magnolia 
jungles. The notion of Texas wealth im-
pressed itself on his mind with the dim re-
membrance of some youthful incredulity. 

The Hilton Inn was a huge, vertical 
edifice surrounded by the ubiquitous foli-
age, and it appeared ~o Dan as a modern 
recreation of the Alamo. The hallways 
were spacious and high, and the doors were 
huge bronze slabs. Our friend could almost · 
see a handful of Texans stomping Santa 
Anna's ass right there in the vestibule. 

There was time to work out in the gym 
before dinner, and Dan liked the feel of the 
floor. H~ was looking forward to the next 
day's game mostly because the whole affair 
-an Ivy League team playing basketball 
in Texas-seemed quite strange. It was 
something he bad never pictured as hap-
pening to him, and he had no clear idea 
what the area and its people were like. 

He ate dinner and went back to his 
room, not feeling energetic enough to go 
flicking with some of the others. He de-
cided to read some more Henry James. 
He had already read Daisy Miller and The 
Ambassadors, and they had made him re-
evaluate his ideas on tradition and civiliza-
tion. He had decided that perhaps there 
was something worthwhile in standards of 
taste and conduct. For too long, he had 
been caught up in the type of American 
cultural hubris epitomized by Daisy Miller: 
no ethics except those that suited the 
moment. But that was a moral cop-out, for 
his innocence was not really profound 
enough for him to deserve such absolute 
freedom, and he was not so far beyond 
making judgments of good and evil as he 
would have liked to believe. 

But he soon abandoned his reading to 
go watch the tube. Somehow the big, ster-
ile hotel room was not conducive to the 
kind of concentration and reflection 
needed for James. His mind kept turning 
to the sexual escapades that he so inti-
mately connected with the idea of a hotel 
room. Sleep and all manner of animal 
sport, he thought, that's what hotels are 
good for. 

As he sat before the TV set, Dan heard 
the team captain, Thatcher Shellaby, re-
turn to his room next door. Dan and his 
roommate, John Gahan, greeted Thatcher 
with the usual profanities and animal cries 
that pass with jocks as friendly greetings, 
and he answered in kind. The noise at-
tracted some kids down the hall who were 
having a party. Obviously bored with their 
own fun, they ventured over to see what 
they were missing. 

At first, there were only three guys, all 
neat and sandy-haired, with beers in their 
bands. Thatcher explained that they had 
no party going in their rooms, and politely 
declined an invitation to their party. The 
visitors said that they were from Southern 
Methodist University. The atmosphere 
seemed to change sul?tly when Dan told 
them that he and his friends were from 
Yale. The Texans responded with the "oh" 
which the name of Yale elicits from so 
many and which is ordinarily followed by 
either genuine interest or a little game of 
"Do you know ... ?" But the Texans' re-
sponse was different, probably because 
their girls had arrived. Vague threats 
were being murmured, and the air was full 
of blossoming hostility. Thatcher chose to 
cool it and announced that be was 
going to bed. 

"You'd better get in that room, faggot," 
one of the Texans muttered. Dan stared 
at the speaker, who was wearing a pressed 
white shirt, tie, flannels, short neatly 
combed hair; he was leaning against the 
wall, obviously drunk. He had uttered the 
threat quietly and coldly. 

In a manner quite unbecoming to jocks, 
Dan and John retreated into their own 
room and ignored the subsequent knock, 
presumably a last attempt to draw the 
Northerners into a .fight. 

Dan went to bed puzzling over this and 
dreamed strange dreams of smiling Texans 
bombing the Eiffel Tower. 

2 

The confrontation of the previous evening 
seemed no more than a dream when John 
and Dan went to breakfast the next morn-
ing. Dan picked up a copy of the Dallas 
Morning News to read while they waited 
for their food. 

He glanced at the shortest editorial first 
from force of habit. This one was con-
cerned with Texas fruitcake, calling it the 
best in the world. That honor you can 
have, thought Dan magnanimously. The 
editorial then continued to say that, as a 
matter of fact, all Texas food was better 
than that produced elsewhere. It ended by 
saying that all kinds of goods were better 
if Texan, and it urged one to buy Texan, 
for "what Texas makes, makes Texas." 

With this in mind, Dan paid his bill and 
returned to the hotel, where an expedition 
was forming to explore Dallas. 

He joined Thatcher, Bill Kosturko, 
Jack Langer and Larry Swartz in the cab. 
On the way into town he noticed a sign 
advertising Lifeline, H. L. Hunt's con-
servative newspaper. Rob Jackson bad told 
him a little about Hunt's reactionary 
politics: that be reportedly had had veto 
power over George Wallace's running 
mate and had vetoed Happy Chandler 
because of his leniency on the racial ques-
tion. (Jackie Robinson had entered the 
Major Leagues while Chandler was Com-
missioner of Baseball.) 

They unloaded themselves from the 


--- Page 11 ---

Ill The New Journal I Apri127, 1969 
cab in front of Nieman-Marcus, the Texas 
department store. Dan vaguely recalled a 
statistic he had beard that a credit rating 
of something in the neighborhood of fifty 
thousand doJlars was mandatory for a 
Nieman-Marcus charge account. He was 
not long in discovering why. 

Nothing appeared out of line with the 
department stores of his past acquaintance 
until Dan began to check the price tags. 
On the third floor he discovered the gift 
gaJiery, which was a collection of decora-
tive items for the home. He examined a 
three foot high statue-price $1750.It was 
an antique from Hong Kong. A small vase 
went fer the same price, and the silver-
ware department carried gold table-set-
tings of which one candlestick alone 
cost $600. The fifteen-dollar ties and 
sixty-dollar slacks finally got to Dan and 
drove him downstairs and out the front 
door, where as he left be caught sight of 
Pearl Baily's personal Christmas tree, 
$35,000 in pearls. 

The idea of a department store for 
millionaires struck him as the most ex-
treme excess that be had ever seen. Did 
being able to support the expense of such 
exhibition make a man or a community 
feel that it was somehow "better than 
others"? He was reminded of a boy he had 
o~ce known who always had more toy sol-
diers and guns than anyone else; who, in 
fact was alway dragging out more toys than 
he could ever use himself. All the other 
kids thought this habit rather pathetic, 
but no one was willing to call him on it 
- he did have the biggest arsenal in the 
neighborhood. 

Returning to his room to wait for the 
pregame training meal, Dan tried to make 
some further headway in James. He was 
beginning to doze off when he heard a 
knock on the door.lt was Thatcher with 
Kathy O'Boyle, a Sarah Lawrence girl he 
knew from Yale, whom be bad run into 
in Nieman-Marcus. She was home for 
Christmas and was trying to find some 
entertainment for them in Dallas. Rob 
! ackson and Glenn DeChabert popped 
10 and asked her where they could find 
some action. 

She began to call nightclubs, explaining 
that the best entertainment was to be had 
in "Africa". Although rather incredulous 
at the title, they figured "Africa" must be 
Dallas's black district. Glenn, a black him-
self, said, "Damn. In Los Angeles they 
call it Watts; in New York they call it 
:riarlem; but in DaiJas they call it Africa. 
Shit." 

Products of adolescent-repressive 
America, they asked the question that has 
haunted the dreams of so many teenagers, 
namely: "Will they card us at the clubs 
in Africa?'' Kathy replied quite calmly 
that the only thing they ever checked for 
was a gun. They couldn't be quite sure how 
much her calm demeanor was calculated 
to add to the shock value of her statement. 

Dan remembered from the news that there 
had been eighteen shooting deaths in the 
state over the weekend. He, for'one, was 
ready to believe her. 

After Kathy had left, and they were 
waiting for the training meal, Thatch told 
them that he had seen two maids, a Rolls 
Royce, a Porsche and a Lincoln at her 
house that afternoon. Dan again found 
himself searching for some connection 
between this affluence and her calm accept-
ance of violence. Did that much money 
give one a grand indifference to injury or 
was it the power-masculinity thing again? 
He wondered if someone could blatantly 
'llUCder or steal in this town if he had 
enough money and influence. He didn't 
doubt it. But his speculations were cut 
short by the coach explaining the two-one-
two zone, and he decided it was time to 
start thinking about basketball. 

3 

The pregame warmup held nothing un-
usual. There were a few catcalls concern-
ing Jackson's and Whiston's hair and 
Peters' sideburns, but they had become 
inured to such remarks. The Dallas papers 
had prepared the fans for the Yale players' 
appearance and the Yalies for the verbal 
abuse by remarking that "Morgan led Yale 
in scoring and Whiston led in haircuts." 

The SMU band struck up "Old-Time 
Religion" as their team took the court to 
warm up. This was one of the favorites 
they alternated with "Dixie" and ''The 
Eyes of Texas." The "Star-Spangled Ban-
ner" had not been played, but Dan figured 
that the substitutes would do well enough 
for those present. It was the feeling that 
counted. 

Yale opened in a zone and promptly ran 
into defensive problems. SMU was able to 
penetrate far enough inside to suck the 
Yale guards in, and then they were pitch-
ing out for the open jump shot. SMU was 
hitting well enough from the outside to 
take a ten point lead by half time. The first 
half was a ragged one for Yale, with too 
many errors and not enough defense. It 
was also a rough half, for SMU was crash-
ing the boards hard, and the referees were 
unusually lenient on body contact. 

The second half promised to be even 
rougher. Yale was going out in a man-to-
man with pressure at half court, deter-
mined to bit the boards harder. The coach 
reminded them that SMU considered this 
game a breeze, a warmup for the games 
coming up. They didn't expect a real 
contest from an Ivy League team; it was 
taken for granted that intellectuals from 
the East couldn't compete physically with 
Texas athletes. Why intellectualism should 
be equated to physical ineptitude was a 
mystery to Dan, but, referring to memory, 
he could confirm it as an attitude domi-
nating all his childhood athletic ventures. 
As a kid, you were a pansy if you pre-
ferred books to baseball and a sissy if you 
weren't prepared to play rough or dirty, 
or to lie in order to win. Sportsmanship 
was a shake of the hand after the melee 
was over. 

In the second half Yale's defense tight-
ened and their fast break began to operate 
effectively. The refs let the game become 
rougher than the first half. John Whiston, 
the Yale center, went in for a Jay-up on 
the fast break and was laid out fiat on his 
back by an SMU player. No foul was 
called. The mayhem under the boards was 
even more flagrant, but the Yale players 
seemed to give as well as they received. 
The tide was turning; Yale was slowly 
narrowing SMU's lead. Resting on the 
bench, Dan noticed that the fans became 
more frantic as Ynle edged closer. He 
also noticed for the first time that all the 
blacks were sitting together in one section 
behind one of the baskets. They were 
mostly black girls and they were cheering 
for Yale. Dan guessed that their favoritism 
was chiefly due to Glenn's presence on the 
team, for he was a very handsome fellow 
and seemed to attract black girls wherever 
he went. 

The referees' decisions became more du-
bious as Yale pulled within four points 
of SMU. Every time Yale threatened to tie 
or pull ahead, the refs charged them with

**Title: 131 The New Journal**
**Author: (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
131 The New Journal I April27, 1969 
der. Jesus, he thought, when are these 
people going to give up their hold on the 
Old West? Will they always be proving 
themselves men with their fists and guns? 
Would America's hero ideal never surpass 
John Wayne? All his mind's eye could see 
was the vision of SMU's Voight with his 
nostrils distended and his little pig eyes 
blinking and glaring, sightless with bestial 
rage. He'd probably make a great soldier, 
Dan thought; at least his hair was short. 


He talked with Paul Oliver as the team 
walked from the gym to the hotel. Paul 
was a quiet Negro from Alabama, and 
Dan decided that, this night at least, he · 
was the bravest man in Dallas. He had 
stayed out of the fight even when Glenn 
was attacked, and he explained why. 
"I've been in fights like that before. 
Where I come from in Alabama, people 
don't go out to push and shove; they go out 
to hurt and kill. Every fight I've ever been 
in was a racial one; if I had gone into that 
fight tonight, I would have really hurt 
someone. 


He hadn't joined the battle because he 
preferred to do violence to his self-esteem 
rather than to another man. It took a lot 
of courage to do that, and a lot of pride 
and assurance in his own masculinity. Dan 
felt the admiration and frustration he 
always felt when he met a peaceful man. 
It was the desire to just do what's human. 
He knew acid made this the biggest desire 
in the world, and he didn't wonder that 
he had not seen any hippies in Dallas. He 
left Paul with a helpless sigh and went 
looking for some marijuana. 


His lungs tingled from the smoke and his 
head felt very light. Grass was such a 
pleasant, relaxing high after exerting one-
self. It might not be good before a game, 
but afterwards it sure beat salt tablets. 
Unfortunately, he didn't think he could 
ever get the NCAA to sanction it. 


Paul Harvey was on the TV, about 
to deliver a commentary. He had just done 
the live commercial before, so Dan as-
sumed that he operated out of Dallas. It 
made sense. Harvey's commentary was in 
honor of the American Legion, whose 
memorial day or week was imminent. He 
spoke of the men who had fought in a 
"better war"; of men who had fought in 
trenches without gas masks, morphine, the 
USO, or proper equipment; and of men 
who had come back to face a depression 
after exerting themselves on the battlefield. 
These were the men who thought America 
valuable enough to fight and die for. We 
owe them all the honor they deserve. 
Harvey's voice broke at this point and he 
was openly in tears. At a loss for words, 
he ended with a wave of the hand. 


Dan was on the verge of nausea. Such 
maudlin sentimentality was almost un-
believable. The past efforts of these men 
did not change the situation today. 


H e found it to be one of the greatest 
of sins to use past heroics as an excuse for 
present crimes. World War I just didn't 
make it as a justification for a war that 
affected Dan, not all the senile old soldiers 
drooling on their yellowing battle ribbons. 
But again, he remembered he was in 
Dallas, where such things did go on. This 
made H arvey's absurdity painful rather 
· than laughable. 


The sports news followed and contained 
a brief account of the brawl. It made no 
comment on the contest other than that 
Yale had lost, and Gene Phillips had been 
set upon by two Yale players. Dan brooded 
over the reports of Viet Cong losses given 
earlier. There was a connection, he 
thought, but he couldn't quite put his fin-
ger on it. He gave up and returned his at- · 
tention to the news. 


The sports announcer was defaming the 
character of Don Meredith, Dallas Cow-
boys' quarterback. He was interviewing a · 
team-mate of Meredith's and was feeding 
him rather damaging leading questions 
such as: "Do you think Don will ever re-
cover from such a public humiliation as 
the Cleveland game? Do you expect any 
major personnel changes in the near 
future?" The teammate fended the queries 
off as well as he could, but it was clear at 
the end of the interview where Meredith 
stood in the eyes of the community. In 
closing, the announcer quoted a New York 
reporter who had said of Meredith, "It 
must be hard on a guy when he realizes 
he's one of life's losers." 


Meredith had not only had a poor 
football game; his team had not only lost 
the Eastern Division title; he had totally 
disgraced himself as a man, as a human 
being. One could not afford to lose in 
Dallas. Losers did not belong there. Real 
men had to win every game, fight and war 
or else die trying. It was the American 
Way. Dan suddenly felt very claustropho-
bic; he was glad they were leaving the 
town the next day. Right now a drugged 
sleep was the best refuge from the reac-
tionaries that haunted his waking hours. 


The Dallas papers the next morning re-
ferred to the Yale players as the "long-
hairs from Yale" and carried much the 
same story of the game as the newscast of 
the previous evening. Dan read the ac-
counts as they waited for the cabs to the 
airport. One even credited Yale with win-
ning the fight, though not the game. 


He thought about H. L. Hunt, the game 
and Dallas in general as the cab sped to-
ward Dallas International Airport. Dallas 
was the town in which Kennedy bad been 
assassinated; it was Lyndon Johnson terri-
tory; it was the only major city to go for 
Richard Nixon. Dan knew that Dallas 
country was one place where he could 
never live. They wouldn't tolerate his kind 
here. It was an America to which he 
couldn't belong and one which he couldn't 
allow himself to join. The attitudes it em-
braced, the battles it fought and the way 
it fought them, he could not support. He 
knew that the only way of life for him was 
one of resistance to the Dallas conscious-
ness which he knew existed everywhere in 
America, usually in more subtle forms. 


By this time, the plane was ready for 
boarding. He headed up the hallway to-
ward the plane, stopping for his last look 
at the Dallas airport. He raised his finger 
defiantly in salute, and as he headed into 
the plane, he could be heard to mutter 
under his breath, "Hot damn, Vietnam."~


**Title: Cambridge**
**Author: Bill Hamilton**
**Page number(s): 14**

Cambridge 
continued from page 2 
the faculty, but SDS finds them totally 
unacceptable. No one really has any idea 
of what is going to happen, and there con-
tinues to exist the Corporation's threat to 
close down the university. 


The situation, then, is a difficult one to 
analyze, for it has become evident that 
Harvard is not following the standard 
script of disruption, polarization and 
bitterness-at least not yet. There is still a 
remarkably good atmosphere in the Yard; 
there really is some dialogue going on, and 
SDS passed a motion tonight wishlng Dean 
Ford a speedy recovery from his "circula-
tory disorder." These factors suggest that 
there really is a chance of unifying the 
Harvard community. But the responsi-
bility for this lies with the ruling structure 
-the Corporation and the Board of Over-
seers. If they ignore the legitimate griev-
ances among students and faculty, they 
may well destroy a great university; if they 
act wisely, something unprecedented might 
well occur and H arvard could emerge a 
far better place. 


Meanwhile, I only wish it would rain 
a little more often. 
Bill Hamilton 



**Title: Heroic struggle**
**Author: Peter Yaeger**

Heroic struggle 
When Massachusetts state troopers 
clubbed Harvard SDS two weeks ago, the 
"Heroic Struggle of Yale Law Students," 
as one sign described recent events here, 
was upstaged and expired. Lagging student 
interest killed whatever chance there had 
been for an effective boycott of classes, 
and the issue of student representation at 
meetings of the law faculty was remanded 
to the respective negotiating committees. 


The quieting influence of "the Yale tra-
dition," or whatever else is used to explain 
the absence of physical tactics here, wanes 
every year, as Yale is seen by more and 
more students as merely one university 
among many. This isn't necessarily good 
or bad; it happens. Garry Trudeau's car-
toon strip in the Aprilll News is brilliant 
in seeing this: as a shirt-sleeved Kingman 
Brewster strolls the campus seeing himself 
as John Lindsay in summer Harlem, 
Georges May bursts his thought baJloon 
with the news that SDS has moved into the 
presidential home. To the law students, 
more than three-quarters of whom did not 
attend Yale College, "the Yale tradition" 
means even Jess than it does to the under-
graduates. 


This is not to sound the alarm for old 
Mother Yale nor to suggest that the Law 
School will spearhead anything like a 
revolution here. Student-power protests, 
anyway, are less revolutions than con-
sumers' battles for a say in corporate 
policy. Several things about the events at 
the Law School do, however, deserve com-
ment as close-to-home examples of char-
acteristics which seem common to most 
recent protests. 


Fireworks began when the Student 
Negotiating Committee (SNC), which was 
elected last fall to deal with its faculty 
counterpart, ended negotiations and sche-
duled an open meeting for April 7 to 
discuss the latest faculty proposals. These 
called for the institutionalization of what 
had developed on an ad hoc basis during 
the year: non-voting student representa-
tion on most faculty committees and 
at the faculty plenary meetings which 
entertain proposals drafted by those com-
mittees. The SNC demanded voting rep-
resentation at all faculty meetings and 
on committees except for those dealing 
confidentially with individuals; the stu-
dent-faculty ratio would be about 1 to 3. 
Also provided for was a faculty veto of 
decisions reached in this "Law School 
Council," a veto which the students hoped 
would soon atrophy through disuse. 


The open meeting, with a record turnout 
of over 300 students, quickly turned into 
a circus-rhetoric instead of reason, mock-
ing laughter punctuated with angry ex-
changes, gratuitous insults and a proposal 
to burn down the school, which was 
withdrawn shortly before it was put to a 
vote. Commendations are in order. 


Firstly, to whoever selected Dean Pollak 
and Eugene Rostow to represent the 
faculty on the podium: whatever one may 
think of Rostow personally, he was without 
doubt the worst possible choice for such 
a task. The idea that Jaw students here 
will trust their interests to the good faith 
of a hawkish Johnson adviser is too much 
to swallow, When Rostow spoke of de-
cisions which only the faculty, in its 
professional competence, could make, 
whatever credibility he may have pos-
sessed evaporated. Dean Pollak was little 
better; he was noticeably nervous and 
angry, and his main presentation consisted 
of 15-minutes' rapid reading of a prepared 
statement. One student compared him to a 
prep school headmaster reading the Riot 
Act. Thomas Emerson, who spoke calmly 
from the ftoor of his sympathy with cer-
tain of the student demands and who 
headed the faculty negotiators anyway, 
would have been a better choice than either 
Rostow or Pollak. The same is true of 
Boris Bittker and Clyde Summers. 


The SNC's chairman, Michael Egger, 
also lowered the level of the proceedings 
with several condescending and unfunny 
remarks directed at the Dean. He repeated-
ly reminded Pollak that he attended the · 
meeting in the Jaw school auditorium at 
the students' sufferance; he also asked the 
students to time and hold the Dean's 
speech to a carefully measured five 
minutes, remarking at its close that, "Dean 
Pollak's idea of five minutes is obviously 
not the same as mine." When I told Egger 
afterwards how much the tone of the 
meeting had disturbed me and others of 
his "constituents," he said that Dean 
Pollak had treated him no better at are-
cent faculty meeting. 


It was my impression that most students 
walked into the meeting expecting to be 
informed and consulted. We found instead 
that the Jines of argument had hardened; 
the many charges and distortions which 
crossed the auditorium set a tone remi-
niscent of the late NYC transit strike. We 
were treated to a prepared statement that 
denounced the Law School as a "pater-
nalistic and oligarchic society,'' while 
another termed the faculty proposals a 
"cooptive and supplicative scheme." These 
drew laughter and applause for their "wit" 
which I found hard to reconcile with the 
quiet and even eloquent statements of Gus 
Speth and Walt Waggoner, who with 
Egger represented the SNC on the podium. 


In the end the students endorsed a pro-
posal by D an Lewis that they devote class 
time to discussion of the issues with their 
professors and then hold a referendum. 
Many classes did this. Typically, the stu-
dents likened the Jaw school to a body 
politic, while the professors insisted it was 
not a political institution and spoke of 
the faculty's need to yell at one another 
in private, where they could not be mis-
understood. There appeared the Students 
to H elp Increase The Faculty's Authority 
and Control over Everything (yes, it's an 
acronym), which bought a keg for the 
courtyard and scheduled a croquet-game-
cum-PBK-keys. 


The referendum, which polled over 
86% of the students, resulted in a very 
close division, the SNC proposal trailing 
only slightly behind a compromise pro-
posal which did away with student voting 
but went beyond the faculty proposal in 
asking for more regular student presence 
at faculty meetings. At a second and more 
subdued open meeting a week later, about 
150 students voted to send the whole 
matter back for more negotiations. It 
seems likely that the committees will agree 
to something like the compromise pro-
posal and that a second referendum will 
ratify it. 


The whole thing seemed to be summed 
up by one student who, on hearing 
Rostow's remark to the first meeting that 
"the klink of Phi Beta Kappa keys here 
can be heard all the way to Yale Station,'' 
said, "We are always told how clever we 
are at the very meetings which disprove it." 
Peter Yaeger 



**Title: Deja Vu**
**Author: Theodore A. Burrell**

Deja Vu 
There is a demoralizing sense of deja vu 
after three or four years of peace march-
ing. It is all rather like being caught up in a 
cocktail party syndrome, where the faces 
blur one into another, where the con-
versations seem strangely familiar, where 
the host is too much a frustrated showman 
and where the whole point of the evening 
is too quickly obscured. 


As the passing weeks relegate the April 5 
inter-city mobilization to the jumble of 
peace-march memories, it seems more and 
more that it should have been different. 
Certainly, the anti-war movement has been 
remarkably hospitable to our new Presi-
dent: while he fiddled with administrative 
stalls and tne bodies burned, we took up 
other tangentially related causes, largely 
centering on the conditions and implica-
tions of military service, out of respect for 
the Nixon Administration's avowed efforts 
to end the war. With four months evapo-
rated, however, the American death toll 
surpassed 33,000, the figures took a deep 
sigh and leapt above the death toll of the 
entire Korean War, and Secretary Rodgers 
spoke of the absolute necessity for main-
taining totally secret negotiations. Such 
carnage and secrecy, anathema to the 
peace movement, served as catalysts for 
the spring protests. The movement had to 
firmly restate its conviction to bring the 
war to a halt. That Good Friday, April4, 
marked the first anniversary of Dr. Martin 
Luther King's assassination as well, could 
not have gone unnoticed by the planners 
of the march. 


So fifty thousand marchers assembled 
in New York's Bryant Park (near the 
Public Library), placed a traditional 
wreath and walked quietly north through 
CentraJ Park. It began to rain. By the time 
the multitude had passed the Zoo, the 
Sheep Meadow and the Tavern-on-the-
G reen, they were soaked. Led by a surpris-
ingly large contingent of off-duty service-
men, the crowd gathered at the Bandshell, 
where scores of young cops and a police 
helicopter greeted them. As the rain and 
speakers poured on, some of the more 
bedraggled marchers drifted away to take 
refuge in the Frick Collection museum. 


Dave Dellinger commended the service-
men on their willingness to lead such a 
march and noted that the anti-war move-
ment had happily reached into the ranks 
of the armed forces. Howard Zion criti-
cized, "Something is very wrong with the 
political system of this country, something 
is wrong with the economic system .... 
The rich have always run this country, 
making millions off poor people's chil-
dren." The typically small numbers of 
black and Puerto Rican marchers ap· 
plauded this but were somewhat less 
moved by Abbie Hoffman's call for revo-
lution. A great many Cuban flags were in 
evidence, and chants to free the Panther 21 
emerged, spontaneously, at several points. 


The planned entertainment stretched on 
into the early evening, and the crowd 
quietly, soggily, dispersed. 


Perhaps the event Jacked excitement: 
much as the war has droned on, year after 
year, so too has the peace movement. The 
Pentagon confrontation took place over 
15 months ago, and it has been years since 
the first protests began. Some of the early 
protesters have since fled to Canada or 
been killed in Vietnam, and while the 
crowd age seems to remain about the same, 
for many of us, this type of action has 
gone increasingly tedious. Perhaps, as 
Jerry Rubin recently wrote, "America 
proved deaf, and our dreams proved inno-
cent. Scores of our brothers have become 
inactive and cynical. ... Our search for 
adventure and heroism takes us outside 
America, to a life of self-creation andre-
bellion. In response, America is ready to 
destroy us. . . . " 


While the physical destruction takes 
place abroad, attrition has taken a heavy 
psychological toll at home. This march 
lacked the enthusiasm of earlier protests 
not entirely because of the rain (fifty thou-
sand did show up in spite of the bad weath-
er) but more because of an incredible sense 
of impotence and desperation that has 
overcome the marchers. We saw the mo-
ment of our greatness flicker when LBJ 
chose not to run again; now, strangely, the 
body seems willing, almost as a reflex, 
but the spirit protests. 


More important, however, is the fact 
that this Administration has become numb 
to some forms of protest. Crime in the 
streets applies to colJege campuses, but 
peace marchers will, by and large, be ig-
nored. If the administration is, in fact, to 
be put on notice, it must first become aware 
of its petitioners, and we will have to seek 
a new set of tactics to produce this aware-
ness. 


Meanwhile, the war drags on. Last 
week's Times stated, "The Nixon Adminis-
tration has set in motion an essentially 
secret program of diplomatic and military 
measures designed to extricate the United 
States from Vietnam." Sometimes there is 
an appealing sense of deja vu . ... 
Theodore A. Burrell 



**Title: Classifieds**

Classifieds 
The Southern Student Organizing Com-
mittee is an association of young, con-
cerned Southerners dedicated to social 
change. Write 121 Yale Station. Call 
777-4143. 


Charge watch to next year's Bursars Bill. 
Watch Agency. 624-0350. 


Dave TfJ(Id: Congratulations four times 
over. All the world is proud of you. 
WDDIM? 


Greetings to J. Casey and Sons 



Austin America 
$I899 POE 
WI AUTOMATIC TRANS.


The Yale Dramat presents 
NEW SONY MODEL 630: 
THE TAPE RECORDER 
THATS ALSO A 40-WATT 
STEREO CONTROL CENTER! 
COMPLETE CONTROLS FOR 
PROFESSIONAL VERSATILITY 
' 
' I 
/1 
I 
·~: '·.'.; 
0 o 
,' <I I I I,.;.~ 1:1 : o /•, 
< o /II o'o' ',o\,'<~1 
Here's an exciting instrument 
that's both a professional-type 
three-head stereo tape recorder 
plus a complete 40-watt stereo 
control center. Just plug in an FM 
tuner, record player, or another 
tape deck. A selector switch in-
stantly lets you record or play 
from any source. Two lid-integrated 
speakers separate for full stereo 
effect. You'll love the sound, you'll 
love the professional features, such 
as built-in sound-on-sound, echo, 
complete control panel, and full-size 
illuminated VU meters. Frequency 
response 30-22,000 Hz, wow & 
flutter 0.09%, signal-to-noise ratio 
50 db! less than $449.50, includ-
ing two Sony F-45 cardioid dynamic 
microphones! Come see the 
630 now. 
SONY lr!m;t-:m:! 
david dean smith 
Corner of Elm and York 


A FUNNY THING 
HAPPENED ON THE WAY 
TO THE FORUM 
"A good clean dirty show- -~hat Forum brings back 
to musical comedy is good for high, low, middle, and 
knitted brows--the belly laugh." Time Magazine 
April 24-26 at 8:30 26 at 2:30 Tickets at Yale Co-op and Yale University Theatre 222 York St. Phone 865-4300 



**Title: Ill YlliiCIIIllf IIIII  IIPIITIIY TIUTII Plllllll**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Ill YlliiCIIIllf IIIII 
IIPIITIIY TIUTII Plllllll 
•••~ i ~yra q 
Weinstein 
••si~ ~~ Ill" B 
airs~~~ q 
Sills 
layl-24 Dntia51!-1151 

