Publication date: 02/06
Volume 38, Issue 4

**A Robot's Work is Never Done**
**Author: Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
' a miniature robot named S (System for Automated Migration of Media Archives) finished the tough 18-month job of re-recording 2,000 hours of testimonials from Holocaust victims that had been in the library's collection. Each night, a technician would load the robot with hours of blank footage, and each morning he would wake to remove hundreds of hours of exposed tape from S 's hungry belly. 'When we applied for the grant, digitization was not even an option;' said project director Joanne Rudof at a recent conference, "because there was no acceptable digital format for video." Now, the library has hundreds of copies of small DV tapes a format that is ostensibly outdated. "In . the case of converted materials," Szary says, "I look at it as a manager protecting an invest:tnent. We put a lot of money into i!? and if this gets lost, that's a lot of wofk and a lot of hours that are lost, let alone in-a preservation case the loss of . ~ r the document itsylf.'_' .- Such failures ' have occurred since the . . .. ., _: J I· / rl"' -... ~ ,, ProJect Open Book, whose· 1992 proposal outlined a "vision of the research library of the future as an institution whose mission is to generate, preserve and improve for its clients' ready access both intellectual and physical to recorded knowledge. The place of electronic tools in the library of the future will depend on how well they measure up against this mission." Unfortunately, these books were recorded ' on a system that has since become obsolete. "No one can look at anything they did," laments librarian Katie Bauer, "Cornell's similar program had the same problem. They recorded everything on these giant silver laser disks, which of course nothing can read." The prevailing plan for keeping pace with constant improvements in media technology is to save digital objects to a server, and then back this server up periodically, on different forms of media. Any changes made in the conversion from one medium to another will be tracked using programs developed by the library.


n a skinny black turtleneck, Katherine Haskins stalks the hedgerows of slide cabinets with grim purpose, wrenches open a drawer and, between two careful fingers, pulls up a plate of glass as if gently lifting a strand of pearls. Flicking the sideswitch of an illuminated viewer with the other hand, she sets the glass pane upon the lighted square, revealing the ruins of a 19th century Italian palace in fragile miniature. The crisp, black-and-white pane is a magic lantern slide, the precursor to the celluloid 35mm Kodak slide • • receive an e-mat rom a uneauJ a man m o restrain ee at • • an re ative on ine. that cycles through today's art history classrooms. "These were outrnoded in the 19 50s or 1960s," Haskins explains, pointing toward the image with a pinky. "But color wasn't always spot on with the 35mm slides, so in most cases they stuck with lantern slides for a few years. In some ways," she reflects, "this is how we think of digital media." Digital media teeters in the same purgatory, straddling a brink of technological progress where most scholars are unwilling to part with the old system, but would be hesitant to argue against the efficiency of a digital database, where slides can be rifled through by keywords instead of drawer knobs. Librarians describe the website as a kind of "electronic wailing wall," referring to the database's analog format: a long, studded white wall, showcasing the images students must memorize for exams that stretches the length of Street Hall's second floor. Today, like the deserted slide library, the wall is frequented more by ghosts than by grade-hounds, but it is maintained out of a sort of sentimental interest in the preservation of an older world of scholarship. When the Cross Campus Library below Sterling is renovated this May, the enormous card catalogues in the first floor will be moved. Rarely used, they will be preserved as art objects, saved out of interest in their status as artifacts. Removed from the burdens of function, they can be appreciated more wholly for their form, for the human effort it took to create them. Art history is a history of the artifact, and any slide or image memorized in a class serves; Haskins explains, as a "simulacrum with a sense of the value of the original, the 'ding an sich,' or 'the thing itself.' There are so many ways to understand the physicality of these objects." Analog formats like the lantern slide are kept less for art history scholars interested in the artifact, but for scholars interested in the history of art history what Haskins describes as the "historiography of art history at Yale," as she returns the lantern slide to its drawer with a sentimental smile. Though the lantern slide serves as a simulacrum of its image, it is also its own historical object, its own 'ding an sich' worthy of study. The artifact presently being created by Yale's hardworking librarians is a digital database, and in one sense is just another simulacrum a sprawling two-dimensional image of the sprawling library itself. Sentimental professors might be squirming in their tweed, but Haskins couldn't care less. "Someone once explained it to me as 'You go where the stuff is,"' she says, adding with a smirk a quote from a book she recently read by W. J. T. Mitchell, who saw digitization as an eternal battle: "The shock of new media is as old as the hills." ''New media" is the chief interest of art history, and society's gradual progress is evident in every object we create and in every slide stocking these thousands of drawers, awaiting quite new processes that will fight to preserve them for the next generation. Adriane Quinlan, a junior in Calhoun College, is a Managing Editor of YNJ.