Publication date: September 6, 1996
Volume: 29
Issue number: 1

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Audrry Ltibovich
- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Hillary Margolis
- MANAGING EDITORS: Karen jacobson, Gabritl Snyder
- BUSINESS MANAGER: Dan Murphy
- DESIGNER: Akc Bnnis
- PRODUCTION MANAGER: john Bullock
- PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR: Marisa Galvtz
- ASSOCIATE PUBLISHER: Min Chen
- ASSOCIATE EDITOR: ]otiBurges
- ASSOCIATE DESIGNER: Kate Merkel-Hess
- RESEARCH DIRECTOR: Dana Goodyear


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Gang buster - JAY DIXIT
- For Jobs, for Justice, and for Jesse - ALEc BEMIS AND GABRIEL SNYDER
- Photo Essay: The People's Commencement - ALEc BEMIS AND MA!usA GALVEZ
- Consensus Takes Root - BRYAN FOSTER


**Title: About this Issue**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 4**


[This section is likely a brief introductory article, but its content is not provided in the supplied text.]


<br/>

**Title: Letters to the Editor**
**Author: [Various]**
**Page number(s): 5**


[This section is likely a collection of letters, but its content is not provided in the supplied text.]



**Title: Points of Departure**
**Page number(s): 6**


[This section is likely a short article or column, but its content is not provided in the supplied text.]



**Title: Gang buster**
**Author: JAY DIXIT**
**Page number(s): 10**

Police Lieutenant Billy White and his task force are cleaning the streets of 
New Haven. Last September they orchestrated the biggest drug bust in 
Connecticut history.



**Title: For Jobs, for Justice, and for Jesse**
**Author: ALEc BEMIS AND GABRIEL SNYDER**
**Page number(s): 16**

A report on the attempt by Locals 34 and 35, and just about everyone else, 
to rally support at Commencement.



**Title: Photo Essay: The People's Commencement**
**Author: ALEc BEMIS AND MA!usA GALVEZ**
**Page number(s): 22**


[This section is a photo essay, and its content is not provided in the supplied text.]



**Title: Consensus Takes Root**
**Author: BRYAN FOSTER**
**Page number(s): 24**

In the Montana wilderness, loggers and environmentalists have learned to 
work together to settle their differences, raising hopes of a new approach to 
managing the nation's forests.



**Which Way to Go?**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Which Way 
to Go? 
Microcomputer Support 
Center (MCSC) can help you 
bead in the right direction so you won'tlose 
your way. 

MCSC can help Yale faculty, staff and students 
clwt their way to the new, promised land that you 
read about in magazines. We sell the IBM, DEC, 
Apple computers and HP printers. We sell the 
most popular software so you can do something 
when you arrive. Our consultants can make sure 
you get everything you 
need to work at Yale. 
We won 'tleave you 
direction less. 
175WhitneyAve ~ 
432-6660 
C·HHM 
785-5919


**Letters to the Editor**
**Author: Joseph C. Krummel, David Anderson**
**Page number(s): 5**

To the editor: 
I have been a volunteer escort for 
women seeking medical assistance at the 
Summit Women's Center in Bridgeport, 
CT for the past six months. From this 
work I have observed Stanley Scott's 
behavior quite well. And the description 
written by Eva Bonime (TN], April 19, 
1996, "Stanley") gave him more credit 
than he is due. 

"A rapport borderin g on affection 
develops berween Stanley and the escorts." 
To me this is an outrageous observation. 
During the last six months, I have seen 
Stanley use the sign that he always carries 
to shove escorts who were helping women 
avoid his verbal and physical harassment. 
Male escorts and the men who have 
accompanied women into the clinic have 
been no more immune to his wrath than 
the women. I am a 24-year-old male at six 
feet, one inch, weighing 200 pounds, and 
Stanley has shoved me on numerous 
ocassions. Recently, I was shoved rwice by 
Stanley while I was helping a woman get 
out of her car. Stanley's strategy is to run 
up to cars that pull into the parking lot 
and block one of the doors of their car. 
He then yells a repertoire of obscene 
language, demanding to know if they are 
"here to murder your baby!" And while 
doing this he plasters his sign across their 
window. On a different occasion he tried 
to trip me by putting his feet between 
mine while I was escorting a woman to 
the entrance of the clinic. 

Stanley and other anti-choice 
protesters have continually threatened the 
other escorts and me with threats of 
violence, speaking for God, who they say 
will arrive to torture and kill us in many 
different ways, depending on the 
imagination and mood they might be in 
that particular day. On the Saturday of 
May 4, one of the escorts was told she 
would burn in hell while worms 
consumed her body. 

I 
have 
never 
heard 
Stanley 
"compliment the escorts for being 
dedicated, even if their morals are wrong." 
SEPTEMBER 6, 1996 
But I have heard him say to one of the 
older female escorts of our group, at the 
end of a morning after all of the patients 
were helped getting into the clinic, that 
she had one foot in the grave and the 
other sure to follow. 

On the Saturday of May 4, one 
member of the staff of the Summit 
Women's Center was driven to the 
e~trance of the clinic to be dropped off 
by her husband who was driving the car. 
The woman's child, no older than four 
years of age, was also in the car riding in 
the back seat as the staff member got out 
of her vehicle to enter her place of work. 
Stanley approached the car, placed his 
sign on the window, and yelled at the 
child of the worker, "Do you know that 
your mother is a murderer?" 

There is no "buffer zone," as Ms. 
Bonime has written, berween Stanley and 
the escorts or the clinic building. Anti-
choice protesters, including Stanley, shove 
escorts and stand directly in front of the 
clinic entrance every week to intimidate 
the patients and the escorts. At the time 
of this article's appearance in your 
journal, Stanley was arrested on a 
Saturday at the clinic by the Bridgeport 
police on charges of third-degree assault. 
He eventually posted $1,000 for bail and 
was released. On the following Tuesday, 
the next time the clinic was open after 
Saturday, he was back, loud and forceful 
as ever. I do not know the exact number 
of times he has been arrested for assault 
or on other charges related to the clinic, 
but this arrest was definitely not his first. 

Stanley and the other people with 
whom I have contact at the Bridgeport 
clinic need no help in their cause to 
dictate what is correct and the "Truth" 
they say is missing from our lives. Two 
bumper stickers that Ms. Bonime did not 
mention in her article grace Stanley's van 
and the vehicle of one other member of 
their gang: "Pat Buchanan for President" 
and "U.N. out of U.S." 

"Where are the people on the life 
side?" Stanley says in the article. I think 
the people he is looking for are actively 
engaged in many circles at the city, state, 
and federal level. 

-Joseph C. Krummel 
Norwalk, CT 

I was upset by "Stanley" (TN], April 
19, 1996). Surely, with dozens of 
articulate, sensible pro-life activists in the 
Yale community to choose from, Eva 
Bonime could have foun d a better 
representacive. I have found that the great 
majority of the pro-lifers at Yale focus 
their efforts on helping women, not 
harassing them, yet she portrays someone 
at the opposite extreme. At best this is 
sensationalism, but in all probability it's 
stereotyping. We've all seen these 
stereotypes before (pro-life men are 
vioh!nt and incoherent, pro-life women 
are submissive and overly religious), but 
I'm disappointed that a magazine as 
scholarly as The New journal would 
further their use. 

It is understandable why a viewpoint 
which disdains religion and ignores 
science would resort to personal attacks 
to promote its case. It is easier to make 
fun of a 72-year-old man and indirectly 
insult him for being a virgin than it is to 
face the facts. It is not understandable 
why a society which recognizes that 
parasites and bacteria are alive, which 
does not discriminate due to size or 
intelligence, and which realizes that the 
immense changes which take place during 
conception take place at no other time, 
does not value human life before birth. 
-David Anderson UE '99) 
The New Journal encourages and welcomes 
letters to the editor. m., however, reserve the 
right to edit for length. Please send all 
correspondence to Letters to the Editor, The 
New journal P.O. Box 203432, New 
Haven, CT, 06520. Email can be addressed 
to tnj@pantheon.cis.yale.edu. 


**Naples Hops on the Wagon**
**Author: Caroline Adams**
**Page number(s): 6**

Naples Hops on the Wagon 
A dark room, 1980s music on the 
jukebox, strange faces, and a plastic pitcher 
of beer perpetually on the table: this image 
of my first few nights at Yale resembles 
that of many undergraduates. 

For upperclassmen and alumni alike, a 
cold pitcher of watered-down beer at 
Naples embodies the very essence of their 
freshman-year experience. Traditionally, 
Thursday nights at Naples, which has 
called itself "the 13th residential college," 
are flooded with the younger members of 
Yale's beer-guzzling, pizza-loving crowd 
who want to hang out and drink. Indeed, 
sharing a pitcher at Naples with new 
classmates has cemented many a budding 
friendship and created many a blurry 
memory. 

But no longer, says Tony Prifitera, the . 
restaurant's manager. "Things have to 
change-we just don't have a choice." The 
pitcher, which formerly allowed one 
person to buy and others to drink, is now 
gone. Instead of these communal 
containers acquired at the counter, 16-
ounce glasses are served by one of five 
recently-hired waitresses, in accordance 
with Connecticut state law. And, to many 
people's dismay, a valid ID card is now 
required. 

This drastic measure is in direct 
response to a $2,500 fine imposed by the 
Connecticut State Liquor Control after 
Naples was busted last November for 
underage drinking. 

On Friday and Saturday nights, Sasha 
Mandl (MUS '96) now stands in the well-
lit entrance stamping a big black "21" on 
the hands of customers who intend to 
consume alcohol only after they have 
proven they are of age. After several years 
studying at Yale, Mandl knows what goes 
on in New Haven. "No one gets by me," 
he declares with confidence. "~d no one 
buys me, either." 

Many students have heard rumors 
about the social upheaval. One junior tried 
his luck on a Thursday night with a fake 
ID. The waitress called his bluff and 
confiscated the fake. In the end, the 
manager returned the bogus ID, but only 
after the underage drinker had signed a slip 
of paper ackno~ledging his responsibility. 
His signature would have protected Naples 
had the police conducted a raid that night. 

Disgruntled upperclassmen who have 
not yet turned 21 bemoan the loss of their 
pitcher-filled youth, while bewildered 
freshmen seem unsure what to 
make of the news. The Naples 
staff is confident, however, that 
students will continue to flock 
into the restaurant once more in 
accordance with Connecticut state 
laws and in keeping with an only 
slightly altered tradition of 30 
years. 
-Caroline Adams


**Can the Coalition Coalesce?**

Can the Coalition 
Coalesce? 
New Haven does not seem like 
fertile ground for the Christian 
Coalition. 

The 
Coalition's 
membership is overwhelmingly 
Republican, while New Haven is 
overwhelmingly Democratic. The 
Coalition is chiefly a Southern Baptist 
institution, and Southern Baptists are 
relatively scarce in this city. Moreover, New 
Haven is home to our fair school, which 
religious conservatives have damned for 
decades as a bastion of liberalism and 
atheism. 

None of which dissuades Brian Green 
(PC '80), founder of the Coalition's latest 
chapter. An evangelical Pentecostal, he 
contends that devout Christians in New 
Haven are underrepresented by com-
munity organizations, and that their 
churches have abandoned Christian 
principles by adopting liberal ways. New 
Haven also holds a particular place in the 
Coalition's history: it is the place where 
founder Pat Robertson (LAW '55) once 
studied. 

In spite of Green's enthusiasm, I was 
altogether skeptical of the new chapter's 
chances for success. When I ~ntered its 
first meeting-a "pro-life night" -ten 
minutes late as the last member of an 
audience that numbered only six people, I 
thought my suspicions were confirmed. 

Soon after I arrived, Green, a very tall, 
thin man, stood up in the front of the 
room and led the audience in a forgettable 
prayer. He introduced himself and spoke 
briefly about the mission of the New 
Haven Christian Coalition chapter: "Our 
job is to drag this society slowly but surely 
back toward the foundation of Christian 
principles that this nation was built on. It's 
a hard job, but somebody has to do it." 

Green then introduced Jane Salce, the 
leader of the Christian Coalition in 
Connecticut. A short, middle-aged woman 
with tan skin and hair tied back in a bun, 
Salce delivered a not-entirely-coherent 
series of words about the Christian 
Coalition's political agenda. In keeping 
with the Republican message of the 
moment-the meeting was held on the last 
night of the conven tion in San 
Diego-Salce attempted to downplay the 
significance of abortion by mentioning 
other issues. "We have a problem with 
taxes, we have a problem with education, 



**Title: Summer on the Streets of New Haven**
**Author: john Bullock**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
we have a problem with-with no say-
we ... are ... the employers. They are the 
employees. They're telling us what to do. 
It's not supposed to work that way." 
I was able to overlook the dubious 
truth-value of her contention that 
evangelical Christians provide the majority 
of jobs in the state. But it gave me pause to 
hear a leader of a populist movement use a 
rallying cry for class warfare that incites 
the wealthy and powerful to act against the 
less fortunate. Is this what the Coalition 
uses in Alabama? 

Bert Hilberger, former President of the 
Connecticut Tax Law Association and the 
man in charge of the night's presentation 
on abortion, followed Salce. Bert was alone 
that night; he usually co-presents with a 
nurse and an obstetrician. Together, the 
three refer to themselves as the "Truth 
Squad," and they tour around the state 
giving a presentation they call "Abortion: 
Scourge of the Twentieth Century." 

Hilberger's presentation consisted of a 
monologue accompanied by slides and a 
videotape. The question-and-answer 
session that followed began with an 
uncomfortable silence. It was broken when 
one woman told Green that the videotape 
Hilberger showed was too gruesome to be 
seen by children. I smiled to myself. These 
people are clearly a lot less cynical, a lot 
less desensitized, a lot more easily fazed 
than the youth they want to protect. 

An audience member suggested the 
Coalition strive to involve members of 
non-Christian faiths in its effort to 
eliminate abortion. Green used her 
comment to launch into his vision of the 
Christian Coalition's big tent: "Our 
enemies are not people of different faiths. 
Our enemies are people who have no 
faith." Then he looked directly at me for a 
moment, and I ·wondered if that was my 
cue to get up and leave. The look on my 
face must have betrayed my family's proud 
and centuries-old tradition of fervent 
atheism. 

Every momenr of the night had been 
spent preaching to the converted. Though 
SEPTEMBER 6, 199.6 
Green's rhetoric about the Coalition's 
mission was unequivocal, I left the meeting 
unconvinced that anyone has a strong 
sense of what the Coalition is trying to 
accomplish in New Haven. If Green really 
believes that his enemies are New Haveners 
who have no faith, he is going to have a 
city's worth of enemies. 
-john Bullock


**Author: joel Burges**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

Summer in New Haven is about seeing 
the city differently. After all, the hordes of 
students who daily consume any Yalie's 
line of vision during the academic yea.r are, 
simply, gone. The day after Commencement, a new map of New Haven is drawn 
as the graduating class drives out of the 
city. It's not that familiar streets suddenly 
move to new and unexpected places or that 
restaurants and stores relocate. What I 
sensed was a geography of vision different 
than what I face during the academic year. 

This new geography contours the 
movements of a group that I think goes 
sadly unnoticed during the school year: the 
people who live and work in New Haven 
on a more permanent basis than most 
Yalies. What highlighted these daily 
movements for me was the way I became, 
at least temporarily, part of them. Every 
morning from Monday to Friday, I got up 
at 7:30a.m. and walked to my job at Yale 
University Press. For the first time, I felt 
like I really saw the commuters and 
residents who were, and still are, walking 
and driving and biking to their respective 
jobs-a people's movement veiled by the 
masses of Yalies who take over from late 
August to late May. 

I didn't really live far from campus, 
subletting an apartment in the Oxford 
with what seemed like most of my class in 
Saybrook College. The subtle change in 
vision effected by my stay h·ere this 
summer suggests how porous the walls are 
that segregate New Haven from Yale. The 
university and the city are not totally 
disconnected. Yet while they occupy the 
same urban center, they remain unwed as 
an urban community. It would be a lie for 
me to say that this contradiction was one I 
had never seen before. When I drive 
around New Haven during the school year, 
I have an urge, which I believe is common 
to many New Haven drivers, to run a few 
Yalies down. We, and I am as guilty as the 
next Yalie, assume that cars are made of 
ether in New Haven. Or maybe they're 
simply invisible to us because we allow 
them to go unseen. 

This summer's shift in vision was no 
burst of light and truth: in fact, light and 
truth may have been eclipsed by my 
summer in New Haven. 
-joel Burges 


**Title: Untitled**
**Author:  (Unattributed)**
**Page number(s): 9**

I don't want to 
work for The New 
Journal! I have better 
things to do with my 
time than work for a 
magazine that has 
received every major 
writing prize at Yale 
as well as numerous 
awards from the 
Columbia Scholastic 
Press Association. 
Besides, The New 
Journal is just a training 
ground for media types 
like TNJ founder and 
Pulitzer Prize 
winner, Daniel Yergin, 
or past TNJ staffer and 
editor of the 
Chicago Tribune, 
Jack Fuller. And you 
~~r,... think just because The 
' . .., 
New Journal is the 
oldest magazine at 
Yale and also has the 
largest circulation, 
I'm supposed to be 
impressed? Give me 
some credit. So, I beg 
of you, go ask someone 
who cares. 

Well, while we won't be seeing him at any TNJ meetings, we would 
love to see you! The New Journal is looking for innovative writers, DTP demigods, 
cutting-edge designers, dynamic photographers, artistes extraordinaires, business 
tycoons, and interested, interesting Yalies in general. If one of the above 
applies to you, look out for posters for our organizational meetings or 
call The New Journal office at 432-1957. 



**Title: The New Haven Drug Gang Task Force**
**Author: Jay Dixit**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
By Jay Dixit 
Pollee Lieutenant Billy White and his task force are cleaning ap the 
streets of New Iavan. Last September they orchestrated lila 
biggest drag bust in Conaectlcat history. 
Billy Willie was 
wearlag llalletproof 
Kewlar, a jacket willa 
tile ward "POLICE" 
prlated oa tile back, 
aad jeaaa. Bla piece 
was a Glock, a alae· 
•llll•eter r.••tal-•e• 
Bawea Pol ce Depart· 
•eat ataadard laaae. 
Around him, in the cavernous 
room, hundreds of other men 
sported 
similar 
attire: 
bulletproof vests, jackets 
marked FBI, DEA, or ATF. and 
police-issued weapons. Some 
were patrolmen, wearing police 
uniforms, while others were 
undercover. Around him, 
White recognized state troopers, special agents from the Drug 
Enforcement Administration (DEA), deputies from the U.S. 
Marshal's office, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) special 
agents, and other police detectives. There were anti-narcotics case 
agents from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms (ATF), 
and intelligence officers from the West Haven, East Haven, 
Hamden, and New Haven police departments. White looked 
around. These were his people, the ones who would be by his side 
on the front lines. ftiS waa llle •e• HaweD Drag IMg 
7aak Farce, aad Lleateaaat Billy Wblte ••• Ia 
cllarge of lt. 


It was 3 a.m. on September 28, 1995, and most of the men had 
been up since the morning before. None of them would sleep that 
night either. They had a big 
day ahead of them.


Hours earlier, White had 
been in his office, writing out 
paperwork and preparing 
warrants. Meanwhile, Tweed-
New Haven Airport had 
quietly filled with federal 
agents, flying in from New 
York and Washington, DC. 
They had then rendezvoused 
at the southwestern corner of 
the city to talk strategy. The 
team's field headquarters that 
night would be Coxe Cage, a 
warehouse of a building 
conveniently tucked away in 
Yale's athletic fields on the 
very edge of town. 


The 300-man coalition of feds, state police, and local police 
had gathered to discuss the next step in the war on drugs. White 
listened as his friend Kevin Kline, an FBI special agent and one of 
the original members of the task force, delivered a r~~ng seeech 
to the law enforcement army that had assembled. ODe laid 
oat tbe battle plaD for Ole ........... nat: the 
agents were to organize themselves into tactical squads, forming 
arrest teams and back-up crews. The teams assigned to carry out 
raids received arrest packets containing the names, addresses, and 
photographs of each suspect, as well as search warrants authorized 
in federal court. At 5:30 a.m., the teams were to split up, each 
reporting to their designated arrest sites in New Haven, East 
Haven, West Haven, North Haven, and Branford to prepare for the 
final phase of the operation: making the arrests. As 
he listened, White asked himself whether this team 
could pull off a successful operation. 


Born and raised in New Haven, White still 
remembered a time when New Haven was 
considered a peaceful town. "This used to be a great 
city," says White. In 1960, only six murders, four 
rapes, and 16 robberies were reported. Ia 1110, 
tllare ware II audara, 118 rapa, ud 
1,714 rebllerlea. Gangs sprayed bullets at 
schoolbuses; they also killed a six-year-old girl, 
mistaking her parents' car for that of a rival gang. In 
1991, half of the homicides reported in the city were 
the result of gang violence. In the early 1990s, White 
was a patrol sergeant. "Back then it was hell," he 
recalls. "I thought, 'What are we doing?'" 


fte alhlatlea ••-•d llepeleaa fer 
... lavu, ud It did aet appear tllal 
llelp waa ea tile way. In Washington, DC, 
the White House was losing its own war on drugs. 
Despite the Republican administration's intensifying 
counterattacks, the government's efforts failed to 
make a dent in the supply on the streets. Law 
enforcement agencies tried everything: they deployed 
military forces equipped with superior hardware, 
increased federal drug seizures tenfold, and began to 
exert diplomatic pressure on drug-supplying 
counrries to curtail drug production. Border controls 
were tightened. But none of this seemed to have an 
effect on the tide of drugs flowing in. The supply of 
drugs kept mushrooming, and drug seizures that had 
always been measured in grams and pounds were 
now measured in tons. By the early 1990s, the 
physical proliferation of street drugs was so heavy 
that random laboratory tests showed that almost every U.S. bill in 
circulation bore trace amounts of cocaine. 


In New Haven, residents feared for their lives. laa1a were 
tarrarbla1 tile city, but at the time, the police chief would 
not acknowledge that gangs even existed in New Haven. Says 
White, "Maybe he didn't know we had a gang problem. I knew we 
had a gang problem." The transactional crime-fighting techniques 
used by the local police were not working. Sting operations where 
police bought drugs or guns on the street and then arrested 
members low in the gang hierarchy had little impact because small-
time dealers did not have much control over the market. Street 
level dealerships were easy to replace, requiring little money, 
influence, and firepower, so arresting street runners merely created 
vacancies for eager new dealers to move in. "They were in, they 
were out, they were back on the streets," recalls White. "We were 
banging our heads against the wall." 


The New Haven Police Department (NHPD) did the only 
thing it could do: it asked for help. Past attempts to coordinate 
federal and local authorities had failed as inter-agency cooperation 
degenerated into clashing egos and competition over who was in 
charge; but now, the federal agencies responded. A meeting was 
called berween federal law enforcement agencies and the NHPD. 
The New Haven Drug Gang Task Force was born. 


Task force members soon realized that involving federal 
agencies in the anti-gang offensive had distinct advantages. fte 
led• were •acb baUer eqalpped to ftaaace 1ar1• 
scale aperatl••• and invest the necessary time and expertise 
to achieve the "takedown" of the drug gangs. 


Members of the task force knew that to shut down the gang 
leadership, federal prosecutors needed powerful laws, since many 
gang bosses seemed above the law. Some had never acrually pulled 
the trigger or sold drugs on the srreets themselves, choosing instead 
to control their operations by sending orders down and waiting for 
money to flow up. The task force began to target drug gangs 
systematically, beginning in 1992 with a narcotics street gang 
known as the Jungle Boys, which had been identified as the most 
violent gang in the area. 


To dismantle the leadership of the Jungle Boys and other 
criminal networks, federal investigators in New Haven rapidly 
became experts at going after racketeering indictments using a set 
of federal statutes known as the Racketeering Influenced and 
Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO). Originally enacted in 1970 to


--- Page 12 ---

12 
**Title: The War on Drugs in New Haven**
**Author: Jay Dixit**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
tough-guy elegance, his hair combed back 
into a pony tail, sporting jeans and a wry 
smile, he talks in a slangy, streetwise way 
about "goin' after the bad guys." On the 
force, White had a reputation for being one 
of the most dedicated police detectives the 
town had ever seen, the kind of cop who 
was "out there" all the time, tracking 
suspects, orchestrating photographed buys, 
often putting in 24-hour days. 


Based on his experience, White knew 
that in an operation as complex as a 
drug raid, timing is everything. That 
means knowing exactly when to stop 
gathering evidence and start making 
arrests. If authorities strike too soon, U.S. 
attorneys may n~t have enough evidence to 
convict, and years of undercover work will 
go to waste. If they wait too long, the 
chances increase that their cover will be 
blown. 


Once a date for a raid has been set, 
timing becomes even more critical. Agents 
have to stay out of sight. If they reveal 
themselves too soon, suspects have the 
chance to bide in their homes, to flee, or 
worse, to arm themselves. The partici-
pating agencies try to choreograph their 
efforts so that every suspect gets a knock on 
the door at the same time. Delays between 
arrests allow suspects time to tip each other 
off by phone, and that means arresting 
agents arrive at empry houses. 


Even a perfectly synchronized raid can 
end in disaster. Drug gangs in New Haven 
have been known to carry Mac-lOs, M-16s, 
and AK-47 automatic assault rifles. As a 
result, the most common incident is the 
plain, old-fashioned shoot-out. To date, no 
New Haven officers have been killed in 
raids, but in 1994 an officer was badly 
wounded. The task force was carrying out a 
drug raid on an after-hours club when 
someone inside opened fire, hitting Officer 
Reginald Sutton in the chest. He owes his 
life to his bulletproof vest. 


As Sutton could testify, New Haven's 
criminals were well-armed. And while the 
legal arsenal provided by federal 
racketeering laws made it easier to bold 
defendants in jail without bail once they 
had been arrested, many of them were stili 
on the street. Merrill Parks, of the New 
Haven FBI, believes that members of 
violent narcotics gangs are past the point of 
no return. Gang members today, he says, 
grow up with a system of values that 
rewards violence. Parks recalls a gang 
member in Washington, DC, who had 
killed 19 people by the time he was 20 
years old. One of his victims was an elderly 
woman who had bumped into him crossing 
the street. He shot her in the head with a 
nine-millimeter pistol. Says Parks, "These 
people are growing up with the cultural 
values of a predator." This point was driven 
home for White one day in 1994. 


Billy White's oldest son, Tyler, was 22. 
He had graduated from Wilbur Cross 
University, where he played football, and 
was working as an orderly at a hospital. On 
the night of May 13, 1994, he met up with 
a young man named Arosmo "Ra Ra" Diaz, 
and the two went to a bar in New Haven. 
They left the bar some time later to go to a 
party in Bridgeport. Early the next 
morning, Tyler's body was found in his car 


Near the car was the bullet-ridden body of 
Diaz. 


Police believe that the Latin Kings 
suspected Diaz of being a police 
informant-a snitch. A godfather of the 
gang had ordered his death. Arosmo was 
the intended target, and Tyler was kilJed 
because he was in the car with him. 
Presumably, the murderers didn't want to 
leave a living witness. 


Three members of the Latin Kings were 
charged with racketeering and murder. 
White attended their trial in Bridgeport 
and listened as recordings were played of a 
conversation between two of the 
defendants, obtained from government 
surveillance. One particularly incrimin-
ating conversation probably clinched the 
guilty verdict when it was played in court: 
"Yo, we fucked up." 
"Why?" 
"Yo, now I know the man was a 
snitch." 
"How do you know?" 
"You know the one that was with them? 
He was a cop's son." 


All three defendants were convicted and 
are now serving life sentences in federal 
prison without the possibility of parole. 
They will be in prison until the day they 
die. 


After the death of his son, White 
continued to head the Drug Gang 
Task Force. The task force took 
the criminal enterprise strategy one step 
further. Just as the RICO statute allowed 
police to dismantle the chain of command 
within the hierarchy of a drug gang, the 
task force now sought to take down the 
next level in the drug gang pyramid. The 
Latin Kings and the Jungle Boys were low-
level distributors, that is, street dealers. 
The street dealers were getting their drugs 
from somewhere, and when police 
intelJigence suggested that the source was 
local, the NHPD decided that cutting off 
the lifeblood of the New Haven gangs 
might prevent them from coming back. 


The thinking behind this move was 
the same as the strategy for waging the 
war on drugs everywhere, from inner-city 
street gangs to international cartels. Drugs 
don't go directly from the farms in South 
America into a drug user's vein: they make 
stops along the way. At each of these 
stops, the drugs change hands, going 
through smaller and smaller suppliers 
until they reach street dis'tribution 
networks in U.S. cities. This is what 
police mean when they talk about 
different "levels" of dealership. The higher 
a dealer is on the drug distribution ladder, 
the more valuable the arrest is to the 
police. This principle holds true all the 
way up to the Colombian drug lords, such 
as the multibillionaire kingpins of the 
notorious Cali cocaine cartel, whose drug 
empire supplies 85 percent of drugs in 
America, and grosses about $7 billion per 
ye:u in U.S. profits alone. 


In 1993, NHPD already knew about a 
local crack dealer named Sal Bova. Rather 
than arresting Bova right away, police 
waited to see who his supplier was. They 
watched him sell drugs to a cocaine-
runner from Queens, then arrested them 
both. The supplier, it turned out, was 
Diego Alexander Holguin-a Colombian 
national. When the police searched him, 
they turned up three items of interest: 
eight ounces of cocaine, $12,000 in cash, 
and a scrap of paper. The scrap of paper 
had a telephone number scribbled on it. 
Police traced the number, eventually 


netting a goldmine of incriminating 
material: an address book of dealers and 
suppliers. Police stepped up surveillance, 
using court-authorized wiretaps to tap the 
phone lines of suspected suppliers. Things 
proceeded without too many surprises 
until police traced calls to Cali, 
Colombia's cocaine capital. FBI Special 
Agent Robert Grispino explains, "As the 
New Haven case developed, they 
identified Colombians-actual real live 
guys from Colombia, part of the cartel, 
who were distributing cocaine to the 
different areas." 


According to DEA head Thomas 
Constantine, the Cali cartel is "bigger 
than the Mafia in the U.S. ever was." In 
his words, the Cali cartel is "the biggest 
organized-crime syndicate there has ever 
been." Realizing that they had stumbled 
onto one of history's largest crime 
syndicates right in their own town, the 
task force turned· up the heat, sending 
officers in to pose as drug buyers. Using 
marked government money, undercover 
agents bought cocain e and heroin. It 
became clear the Fair Haven ring was a 
big supplier, probably supplying to many 
local gangs. 


Over the summer, the task force had 
secretly indicted 32 people, and now it 
was finally time to act on the warrants. At 
exactly 6 a.m., the task force executed a 
coordinated sweep, simultaneously 
arresting 29 out of the 32 people indicted. 
The arrests in the New Haven area all 
proceeded without incident. Afterwards, 
FBI special agent Robert Grispino was 
struck by the intensity of the emotion 
displayed. "It was quite a sight," he told 
reporters. "With some of the New Haven 
cops, there were tears in their eyes." Billy 
White, of course, was among them. "We 


got some big fish, too, guys that handled 
multi, multi, multi kilos," says White. 
"That was the biggest one we've ever 
done." 


Of the 29 arrested, about 13 were 
Colombian nationals. The task force had 
successfully apprehended many of the 
importers and distributors that had 
connections with source companies. "The 
core organization that they arrested here 
in New Haven had direct connections 
with Miami, San Juan, and Cali," says 
Grispino. "And that's proven." 


Meanwhile, the entire Cali cartel 
leadership has been apprehended by an 
elite Colombian police squad. In the past 
year, eight of the top nine Cali drug lords 
have given themselves up to Colombian 
authorities or been killed in gunfights 
with police. 


The task force's operations have 
proven to be so successful that they have 
attracted national attention. DEA 
Director Thomas Constantine touts New 
Haven as an example of the good that the 
war on drugs is doing on a community 
level by helping to "clean up the streets." 
In a recent White House news conference, 
Attorney General Janet Reno talked about 
the success of the war on drugs, citing the 
pilot program in New Haven, and 
pledging to "repeat New Haven's success 
across the nation." 


As for Billy White and his team, rhey 
continue to do what they have always 
done. "I think eventually we can win the 
war on drugs," says White. "I'll probably 
be gone by then. But I think someday, we'll 
work our way out of a job, and there won't 
be any more gangs left in this city." 


jay Dixit, a junior in Ezra Stiks Co/kg~. is 
on th~ staff ofTNJ. 


**Commencement Weekend at Yale**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
.. 
--
A
small army of teenage boys has labored on Old Campus for 
the past several days, setting thousands of plastic folding 
chairs along a pattern that would make a civil engineer 
proud. On this Saturday evening, two days before 
Commencement, couples contemplating their last days in New Haven 
and families proud of their graduates-to-be stroll through the perfect 
rows. Like the groups of newly-acquainted freshmen that arrive each 
fall, dumps of graduating seniors linger on Old Campus until well past 
midnight. 

Watching over the scene from a chair on the stage is a security 
guard, silhouetted against the bright lights in the Lanman-Wright 
courtyard. For the first time in as long as the guard can remember, Yale 
has kept a vigilant watch over the preparations for Commencement. 
"I'm not supposed to let kids up here," says the guard working the 4 
p.m. to 12 a.m. shift. "They just wanna sit up here and look out, so 
sometimes I let them-but not now because my boss could be coming 
soon." The guard used to watch the stage from the inside of his car 
parked at the High Street gate, but his boss wants him on the stage 
now. 

The 24-hour guards are just one of several noticeable differences 
this spring. Wrapped in camouflaging green fabric, six setS of speakers 
on 12-foot platforms ring Old Campus. Over the past two days, the 
sound system has been piping in Bob Dylan and other rock classics. 
Locals 34 and 35 have their own sound system. The previous day, 
Bob Proto, president of Local 35, and three union members unloaded 
two huge, yellow speaker lifts into the parking lot of the Center ChurGh 
on the Green. "They're gonna rise up 30 feet high," Proto says proudly. 
"We wanna make sure aiL of our people can hear us," he adds, grinning 
and raisin_g a knowing eyebrow. 

Just before dark on Saturday, Deborah Guber (GRD '96) slowly 
walks her parents down an aisle between the chairs .. All three are 
dressed as if they are going to church. Deborah will receive her 
Ph.D. in political science on Monday. Her parents have come from 
Pennsylvania to be with her. 

More than most Yale parents, Francis Guber and his wife, Dolores 
Linfield, would seem to be the natural allies of Locals 34 and 35. 
Francis is a maintenance man and belongs to a union, while Dolores 
works in a school cafeteria where her union has been fighting an 
attempt to subcontract union jobs. "They want to bring in outside 
companies," she says. Dolores is opposed to subcontracting, which is 
also the largest issue the Yale unions are fighting. "We can do a better 
job than them. We care about the students more than some strangers," 
she says. Dolores and Francis, however, don't know much about the 
contract negotiations between Yale and the unions. "All we know is 
what Deborah tells us and what we read in the newspaper." 

Yet, these parents are dead set against Locals 34 and 35's plan to 
disrupt their daughter's graduation. "It's not so much that we disagree 
with their ideas and ideals, as much as we do with their methods," 
Francis says. "It's wrong. They're just using the students. I've been on 
strike for 13 weeks without benefits or pay, and Jesse Jackson didn't 
come out for us. If it wasn't at Yale and the national media wasn't going 
tO be here, he wouldn't come," he says. "It'd be one thing if they wanted 
to make their view known, but this is not the way," Dolores adds. 

Deborah Guber and her parents aren't alone in their anxiety about 
Commencement. For weeks the unions have widely spread their plans 
to make a ruckus. AFL-CIO organizer Vinny O'Brien suggested 
cancelling Commencement entirely if Yale was worried about too much 
noise. Jesse Jackson told a Boston Glo~ reporter he planned to march 


**Commencement Weekend at Yale (continued)**
**Page number(s): 17**

"seven times around Yale campus ... and bring the walls of Jericho 
tumbling down." Yale, anxious to paint the unions as screaming 
radicals, hasn't done much to downplay the hysteria. The Office of 
Public Affairs even reprinted some of O'Brien's most incendiary words 
in full-page newspaper ads. In prominent stories on Commencement in 
the Boston Glob~, the N~ York Tim~s, and the Los Angeles Tim~s, 
student opinion uniformly opposes the unions' Commencement rally. 
But some graduating seniors say the rally might make the otherwise 
boring Commencement exercises a little more memorable. 

Behind the rhetoric, however, Yale administrators are worried about 
being embarrassed in front of the national media, the unions are 
worried that no one will show up at their rally, and students and parents 
are worried Commencement will be ruined. On the Saturday before 
Commencement, everyone is asking, "What's actually going to 
happen?" 

No one knows the answer because any single group's control over 
the situation has long since evaporated. Yale lost control of its own 
Commencement as soon as Locals 34 and 35 decided to have a rally 
across the street. Locals 34 and 35 lost control of their rally when the 
AFL-CIO decided to make it a national priority. The AFL-CIO lost 
control when Jesse Jackson decided to use the rally to promote his 
Rainbow Coalition. New forces supplanted older forces, creating a 
camivalesque tangle of the unexpected. As staffers in the unions' Chapel 
Street office have been saying, "It took on a life of its own." 

grandmother, father, mother, and graduating senior, all of them dressed 
up for the occasion, walk across Elm Street. The grandfather screws his 
face into disapproval and yells from the middle of the street, "Stop 
saying that!" 

"Mr. Levin, I know you want us to act a little nice the next few 
days," the man with the megaphone continues. "Everything's fine on 
the plantation!" 

A young man in a blue oxford shirt walks by. "That's right, can't 
wait to hop on 95," he mutters to his friends. "I can't wait to go back 
home." 

"Watch the swimming pools in the backyardr-HAH!-50 miles 
away from the city!" the man screams. "They wouldn't let this happen 
in their communities!" 

The man with the megaphone is about as close as the Yale families 
will come to confronting the unions on Class Day. On Old Campus 
the only noises are synthesized Latin beats coming from the speakers 
and idle chatter about seating and parking. 

When the Class of '96 enters through the Elm Street gate, parents 
abandon their hard-won seats to get an up-close shot of the graduates. 
Some students smoke cigars, others drink champagne. A few wear 
yellow and blue "Yale Settle" stickers. One wears a Local 34, Local 35, 
and GESO pin with a heavy black line crossed through it. Henry 
Winkler (ORA '70) appears to a cheering crowd, and after dishing out a 
speech full of Democratic platitudes, he tells the Yale graduates, "The 
world is yours! Go and take it!" 


**Class Day at Yale**

By 1 p.m. on Class Day, parents of the Class of 1996 
have claimed their seats on Old Campus to hear Henry 
Winkler's address. At the head of Rose Walk on Elm 
and High Streets, amid swarms of Yale families, a man 
wearing a blue utility jacket and a black eye patch stands, jji!liii~~;11lll~~~~~~ 
screaming through a megaphone. "This is where wt live at, 42 
percent of the city they own," he screams, "and not a dime in 
property taXes!" This statistic is one of his favorites; he's been 
ydling it repeatedly for about 20 minutes. 

Most of the passers-by ignore the man in the utility 
jacket, averting their eyes and temporarily stopping their 
IIIII!~==~ 
conversations. There is no sense in letting a maniac with a .... ~~;! 
megaphone ruin this day. The two Yale cops standing on 
~·~~~iilj~~~ 
either side of Rose Walk look unconcerned as the man 
continues his tirade. As a Yale garbage truck passes by, the 
driver honks the hom in approval 
...:.~~~--
The man with the megaphone bellows on, " Thry live far 
&om here! And thry are glad that they do!" A grandfather, ......:.,;;;,._:__,.,;;;;;..-• 


**The "People's Commencement"**
**Page number(s): 18**

Later that evening in Bridgeport, outside 
the Prayer Tabernacle Church of Love, 
parishioners dressed in flashy clothing 
mill 
around 
the 
sidewalk. 
Yale's 
Commencement is far from anyone's mind, 
but the Prayer Tabernacle Church is hosting a 
"Community Rally for Justice and Equality" 
with guests, Reverends Jesse Jackson and AI 
Sharpton. Bridgeport is the first stop on the 
Jackson publicity train. Next stop: New 
Haven and the "People's Commencement." 

Jackson and Sharpton are over an hour 
late; inside the church, the choir is already 
singing. When they finally roll up in a new 
Chevy Crown Victoria, Jackson rides shotgun, 
and Sharpton rides in the back behind the 
driver. Children and church representatives 
crowd around the special guests. 

The pews inside the Bridgeport church 
are crowded. Ushers wearing white dresses and 
gold badges set up folding chairs at the ends 
of the aisles for late-comers. The choir is 
literally rocking. Once inside, it's hard to keep 
still-this music makes you believe. As the 
choir closes its song, the rough, low voice of 
Bishop Ivory Holden asks, "Can you say 
18 
'Praise the Lord'?" and is 
answered by a forceful, 
"Praise the Lord!" As the 
organ starts up again, Holden 
booms, "Sometimes it makes 
your hands go up! Sometim~ 
it makes your feet get light!" 

Moments after a young 
man on the crowded stage 
bursts into tears, Jackson 
enters, followed by Sharpton. 
The band kicks in again, the 
parishioners rise to their feet, 
and 
Jackson 
embraces 
everyone that comes clo.se to 
his open arms. Holden still 
has the microphone. "That's 
Jesse Jackson-give him some love! Give him 
some love!" The church crackles with holy 
electricity as the twO guests take their seats in 
high-backed wooden chairs on the stage. After 
speeches and songs by a number of local, 
honored guests, Sharpton stands up to 
introduce Jackson. "It's one thing to have a 
rally. It's another to have a meeting in a 
church," he says. "Many are leading but few 
are dealing with the spiritual decay. Unless we 
change the values, our children will think 
right is wrong and wrong is right. That's why 
we are going to Yale University, because they 
are practicing greed." The Rainbow Coalition, 
Sharpton says, is like the angel of death 
coming to check for blood above the doors of 
the Israelites. "Are you on the side of 
affirmative action?! Are you on the side of 
Medicare?!" And then he introduces Jackson: 
"My leader, our teacher, our friend, Jesse 
Lewis Jackson!" 

Jesse Jackson rides to the stage on a wave 
of cheers and applause. "I AM!" he says. "I 
AM!" the crowd responds. "SOMEBODY1" 
he says. "SOMEBODY1" they repeat. "STOP 
THE VIOLENCE!" he says. "STOP THE 
VIOLENCE!" they respond. "SAVE THE 
CHILDREN!" he says. "SAVE THE 
CHILDREN!" they respond. This call-and-
response routine cycles through again and 
again until the voices of the packed-in 
parishioners reach a near-impossible volume. 

"We got to go to Yale tomorrow. We got to 
act intelligent, so I thought I'd cut up 
tonight," Jackson says. 

"We're having a great demonstration in 
New Haven tomorrow. An institution with a 
$4 billion endowment can't afford to pay its 
workers. We're gonna walk around the walls 
of Yale until those exploitative leaders come 
tumbling down!" 

Jackson is a reverend, and tonight it 
shows. After every other sentence, people in 
the pews yell out phrases like, "Say it sir!" 
"That's true!" "Amen!" and "That's right!" 
The line between biblical and political is thin. 
Jackson brings the unregistered voters to the 
front of the church and lectures them on the 
virtues of voting. He wraps his politics in 
Bible stories. "We have upon us the building 
of an ark. We put a lot of focus on who can 
swim, but when God spoke to Noah, he said 
even good swimmers could not swim for 40 
days and 40 nights. Those who could swim 
outside the ark drowned. Those who could 
not swim inside the ark survived. As we fight 
these forces we must choose between ark-
building and individual stroking." 

After Jackson finishes his speech, he 
makes a personal appeal for donations: "If you 
are willing to give $100 or more, please 
stand." No one stands up. Jackson repeats his 
plea two more times. Fmally, Bishop Kenneth 
MoaJes, the host pastor, stands, but he is the 
only one. Jackson then says, "Bishop Holden, 
stand up. Sorry to call your name, but we 
need the money." 

Jackson continues, "If you will give at 
least $50, please srand." A few people sWid. 



**Title: Yale's Commencement Day**
**Author: Alec Bemis and Gabriel Snyder**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Pre-printed Rainbow Coalition envelopes are 
distributed around the church. Along with 
becoming a member for $35, tonight's 
church-goers can also sign up for the Rainbow 
Coalition's own long distance phone service. 
Bishop Moales and the rest of the church 
leaders on the stage begin filling the envelopes 
out. After dramatically sealing and folding his 
envelope, Moales says, "Can we have a few 
baskets here? Just pass your envelopes down to 
the end. We'll give y'all a few 
minutes to finish filling those out. 
You still have time to fill those 
envelopes out." 


It is drizzling on the morning 
of Commencement. According to the schedule, Jackson 
and Sharpton will lead a march of 
community members at 8:30 a.m. 
from the Q-House down Dixwell 
Avenue and Elm Street to the 
New Haven Green. For days, the 
unions have been advertising the 
rally by broadcasting Jackson's 
voice on the radio and driving cars 
through neighborhoods with 
loudspeakers. Behind the scenes, 
Mayor John DeStefano has 
arranged for the unions and Yale to meet 
together and seek a settlement before 
Commencement. Yale's main negotiator, 
Brian Tunney, has met with the unions' main 
negotiator, Michael Boyle (PC '79), several 
times in DeStefano's City Hall office. The two 
sides both say that a settlement is very near. 
Boyle says he wouldn't expect a settlement 
immediately after the rally—it would appear 
that Yale was caving in to strong-arm union 
tactics. But he adds, "I can't see any logical 
reason why it wouldn't be settled by 
September." 


At 8:25 a.m., the sidewalks in front of the 
Q-House are almost empty. The twenty-odd 
people present are almost equally split 
between Student Labor Action Coalition 
(SLAC) members wearing yellow "Yale Settle" 
signs and journalists. The people look a little 
bewildered, waiting for something to happen. 
That's when the socialists roll in, barreling 
onto the scene in small, fuel-efficient imports. 
Jason Coughlin is with the Socialist Workers' 
Campaign from New York City. "We knew 
about this fight for some months," he says. 
"Someone from Boston faxed us a leaflet." 
Armed with banners and literature, the 
socialists are prepared to march. 


Suddenly an 18-wheeler truck, with a red-
hot funk band playing on its flat-bed, 
shimmies and jives through the street. A 
handful of people excitedly crowd around its 
base. Behind the truck is the Crown Victoria 
that Jackson and Sharpton used in Bridgeport. 
As Jackson emerges, people seem to 
materialize around him. Graduating members 
of SLAC, in caps and gowns, shake Jackson's 
hand as they pose for press photographers. 
Jackson thanks the crowd for being there and 
asks them to march behind him in rows of 
five. The hundred people who have now 
gathered slowly begin to walk down Dixwell, 
following Jackson, who is arm-in-arm with 
the Yale graduates. Sharpton follows under a 
large black umbrella. 


While several "Yale Settle" signs dot the 
crowd, an equal number of banners and signs 
support other causes ranging from the 
overthrow of capitalism to nuclear 
disarmament. There is a noticeable 
lack of community members. 


During the march, 
Martha 
Havdendez, of the Socialist 
Campaign, aggressively tries to sell 
the party's newspaper, The Militant, 
to anyone within earshot. Nearby 
walks the Socialist Campaign's own 
presidential candidate, James Harris, 
a meat-packer from Atlanta. 


At York Street another hundred 
people chanting union slogans join 
the march. The crowd parades down 
Elm Street towards the Green and 
past Cross Campus where the 
graduating students are just 
beginning to line up for their own 
procession to Old Campus. 


By 9:15 a.m. the spittle of rain has 
stopped and the sun is out. Along the walk 
from Elm Street to Beinecke Plaza, there are 
signs for every residential college and graduate 
and professional school. Each class will line up 
and march onto Old Campus. Small, round 
"Yale Settle" stickers mix with the traditional 
additions to the mortarboards: flowers and 
leaves for the Forestry School, fleur de lys for 
Ezra Stiles, clocks showing the 13th hour for 
the Drama School. 


Deborah Elkin (GRD '96), who is 
receiving her Ph.D., is trying to convince 
another Ph.D. recipient to smuggle one of the 
large cardboard "Yale Settle" signs into the 
Commencement ceremony to stage a silent 
protest. When this woman declines, Elkin 
pushes her to wear a sticker instead. 


After the graduates fall into their 
marching formation, the band steps through 
Noah Porter Gate. Realizing the march is 
about to begin, relatives and friends of the 
graduates rush out of the gate. The drummers 
begin a drum roll and the band moves 
forward. Two motorcycle cops ride up to 
escort the parade the block and a half to 
Phelps Gate. The unions and Yale have met 
with the New Haven police to orchestrate an 
intricate schedule that prevents union 
supporters and Yale families from coming into 
contact with each other. 


The procession moves slowly onto Elm 
Street. Just before the corner at College Street, 
the rest of the band starts up with a sudden 
burst of noise. Parents crowd onto both sides 
of College Street, looking for their son or 
daughter. As the graduates pass, about 20 
union supporters begin to chant from the 
corner of the Green, "Hey! Ho! Union-
busting has got to go!" Others, behind the 
fence on College Street, simply cheer on the 
graduates. Kathy Cassidy (ES '96), a SLAC 
member, joins in on the union chant. The 
chanting and cheering blend into one noise. 


After some of the graduates have already 
entered Old Campus, the procession stalls, 
and a few graduates step up to the rail to hug 
union members. Reporters grill the graduates 
as they walk past. A reporter pulls Alana 
Conner (SM '96) aside to ask her what she 
thinks of the union rally. She comments, "It 
lends a carnival atmosphere—seriously, that's 
good for somber occasions." A graduating 
senior in Timothy Dwight says, "The protest 
is pretty ridiculous. I think it's quite funny 
that it's not as big as they thought. I guess it 
shows that people have more decency than the 
unions thought." 


As the last of the graduates pass through 
Phelps Gate, friends and relatives crowd in 
behind them. The people press in further; 
tempers flare. "Excuse me!" yells a man in the 
back of the crowd wearing a suit and thick, 
square sunglasses. He cups his hand around 
his mouth. "Can we get into this gate? Does 
anyone know? Do you see anybody moving?" 
His wife, embarrassed by his outburst, pulls 
his arm down, but the man's suspicions are 
correct. No one is being let in through Phelps 
Gate. More upset by this development than 
by the chanting unions, the crowd moves 
down College Street towards Chapel Street, 
where the gates in front of 
Vanderbilt Hall stand wide open. 


Yale put up posters the week 
before, offering students still on 
campus $7.80 per hour to issue 
tickets for Commencement. Each 
ticket is supposed to have the 
guest's name written on it, but as 
people walk through the gates, no 
one is checking for them. 


The speakers pipe in classical 
muzak today, and the events 
beyond the thick stone walls are 
very far away. After the graduates 
have found their seats, Yale Chaplain 
Frederick Streets walks to the podium to 
begin the program. "Welcome to Yale's finest 
hour!" he exclaims. There is a small rumble 
from the union rally, but that is the only noise 
during the program. Dean Richard Brodhead 
(BR '68, GRD '72) requests 
the 
undergraduate degrees. President Richard 
Levin (GRD '74) agrees to give them. 
Graduates in the seats cheer. Commencement 
proceeds as normal. The most conspicuous 
sign of the union protest is a plane circling 
above Old Campus pulling a sign that reads: 
"Save New Haven. Yale Settle." 


When Levin begins his speech at the end 
of the ceremony, about eight graduates march 
to the front of the stage and hold up their 
contraband "Yale Settle" signs. Many people 
do not notice them—the stage level is just 
above the protestors' heads. They calmly and 
quietly leave as soon as Levin is finished. 


On the New Haven Green, a band 
plays a rockabilly tune, "Trailer Park 
Baby," as several large puppets and 
props are set up behind a stage. Fifteen-foot 
cutouts of brooms, keyboards, mops, 
wrenches, and pencils are followed by equally 
large puppets of the Yale bulldog, Handsome 
Dan, in top hat and tails, and workers of all 
colors, ages, and genders. On the makeshift 
stage, the band sings lyrics that foreshadow 
the arrival of the oncoming throng: "Gonna 
get more/Gonna get more/Gonna get more 
than most would." 


About a half-hour after the parents and 
graduates withdraw into the safety of the 
ceremony behind the gates, the buses begin to 
roll in and the cavalcade of locals slowly 
emerges to fill the lawn. Each union group 
wears shirts bearing a unique supportive 
slogan and local union numbers from 6 to 
1707. After a host of speakers, Local 34 
president Laura Smith quickly takes the stage 
and makes the opening pronouncement: 
"Welcome. Thank you and let the party 
begin." 


"Are we in the parade? Are we in the 
parade?" a young girl huddled against her 
father's chest wonders, trying to understand 
her role in the proceedings. 


"Honey, we are the parade," her father 
answers. 


The multitudes enthusiastically cheer on 
the next few speakers, a collection of orators 
including graduating senior Jelani Lawson 
(MC '96), Local 35 president Bob Proto, and 
New Haven NAACP president Roger Vann. 


A troupe of puppeteers from Boston enacts a 
quick play, the climax of which entails the 
Handsome Dan puppet being beaten under a 
deluge of blows from the oversized tools. The 
cheers from the crowd, however, seem to be 
more in anticipation of Jackson's speech. 


But after last night's sermon, Jackson's 
show on the Green is a disappointing sequel. 
At times repeating himself word for word, 
Jackson follows the exact framework of the 
Bridgeport address—only softening the tenor 
of the speech and bringing the intensity and 
unhinged nature of his speaking voice down a 
few notches. He falls back on his familiar 
tropes: "We will keep hope alive. Let us march 
with dignity and discipline and non-violence." 


Leading the march off from the corner of 
Elm and College, a pack of more than 50 
journalists and photographers forges a 
comet's head around Jackson while 
hundreds of workers form a blazing tail. 


For the half-hour it takes the protestors 
to circle Old Campus, including a detour 
which bypasses High Street in favor of 
York, everyone present seems to have a 
sense of purpose: to awaken New Haven 
to the evils of the "dde administration. 


Like a fiery comet disintegrating in 
the atmosphere, the different members of the 
united group break up when they return to 
the New Haven Green. 


Individual interests and activities prevail as 
the group scatters. Dressed in matching hot-
pink lounge suits and brown shades, Dave 
Thomas, Tom Banks, and Arthur Stewart—
all members of Local 35—are the 
International Three, a rhythm and blues 
singing group which performed at the rally 
earlier today. "Yeah. We're trying to get a CD 
out," says Thomas. Unflustered by playing to 
such a large crowd, he minimizes the relative 
size of today's audience, saying, "Now, we've 
played for thousands of people before," then 
quickly acknowledging, "This is a big crowd, 
though." 


Reverend Scott Marks, the head of the 
New Growth Church and another performer 
on today's musical cavalcade of R&B, folk, 
funk, and soul, tries to sell a reporter on doing 
a story about his upstart ministry while 
cooling off in the backstage area. "We're 
different. We're not just a drop-in-here 
church, we're a community church. Come on 
down. Come on down." 


The Green has also become a socialist 
newsstand of sorts. No one would claim that 
they're in competition for the crowd's spare 
change, but it's fairly certain that the 
Proletarian Evolution, the Socialist Worker, 
Abolitionist NYC, Industrial Worker, The 
Militant, Worker Vanguard, People's World 
Weekly, and Labor at the Turning Point all 
share the same target demographic group. 


"Our politics are just working class 
politics," says Rayan Dlamime, with the 
International Socialist Worker Associations. 
"In a place like this it's easy to sell. You know 
there's a big market and you know, whatever, 
none of that red-baiting stuff." 


Perhaps the person having the most fun at 
this event, however, is Devin, a boy about 
nine-years old. He has joined in with a small 
mob of children that have been chasing after 
the Handsome Dan puppet. Modeling 
themselves after the puppeteers who swing 
giant screwdrivers and pens at the papier 
mâché dog, the kids are occasionally able to 
get in a good shot, almost disabling the 
puppet entirely. After a puppeteer finally drags 
the Handsome Dan puppet off to safety, 
Devin answers a few questions for a reporter 
following the scene. 


"Did you have fun hitting the dog and 
chasing around all the people in costumes?" 
the reporter asks. 


"Uhh-huh. Neat!" Devin replies. 


"What made you come down here?" the 
reporter asks. 


"I came with my dad. He's a 
photographer." 


Even though Devin probably doesn't 
understand the intricacies of socialism, the 
union struggle, the Rainbow Coalition, or 
even the ins-and-outs of getting a record deal, 
Commencement sure is fun. Everyone, in 
fact, was able to have their fun because 
nobody wanted to ruin the day for 
anyone else. 


Alec Bemis, a junior in Berkeley College, is 
designer of TNJ. Gabriel Snyder, also a 
junior in Berkeley College, is managing 
editor of TNJ.



**Title: Consensus Takes Root**
**Author: Bryan Foster**
**Page number(s): 24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
tauu--aumu~l one-quarter 
the residents 
earn their living from timber harvesting and processing. Local 
environmental groups have held up hundreds of timber sales with 
administrative and judicial appeals. These appeals have decreased the 
volume of timber now sold from federal land (which makes up 75 
percent of the forest base cut in the region), to one-tenth of what it 
~ 
eight years ago. Tension between environmentalists and loggers is 
tight here, like a fist gripped behind every conversation. 
"The old ways of confrontation and polarization just don't work," 
said John Gordon, professor and former dean of the Yale School of 
Forestry and Environmental Studies. "With the spotted owl fight a 
couple years ago, no one really won. Sure, donations to 
environmental organizations went up, but with concessions under the 
recent salvage rider law, these groups are no more certain of saving the 
owl. Wood prices for industry also went up, but the companies laid 
off hundreds of employees, broke families." 
This past February, Gordon was the co-chairperson of the Seventh 
American Forest Congress in Washington, DC, a meeting that 
brought together loggers, environmentalists, and forestry experts from 
across the country to develop a shared vision for managing the 
nation's forest land. 


This congress, part of a series of meetings that have influenced 
national forest policy since 1882, is the first of its kind since 1975. 
This year it drew 1,300 people from across the country to develop 
broad goals for the nation's public and private forests. "Forest 
managers can't continue to operate without knowing what people in 
this country want from their forests," Gordon said. "And we can't 
come any closer to resolving major environmental problems until we 
find out where we all agree." 
The Flathead Forestry Project (FFP), an organization that started 
in Kalispell, Montana in 1994, has been called a model for local 
citizen efforts around the country. FFP aims to substitute honest 
discussion for faceless rhetoric and replace airless meetings with 
hands-on demonstrations. FFP is also one of the country's most 
ambitious groups; seeking to change logging laws on all federal land. 
T
he Fl~thead roundtable, held in Kalispell last January, was one 
of over 90 meetings across the country that led up to the 
Seventh American Forest Congress. Here, citizens developed 
"vision" statements to describe ideal forests, "principles" to further 
those visions, and concrete "next steps." All these comments were sent 
to the congress office in New Haven where words and phrases were 
added or extracted so each submission could carry the flavor of 
dozens. The refined visions and principles were voted on at the Forest 
Congress in Washington, DC, last February. 
Almost 50 people attended the Flathead roundtable, many of 
them members of FFP. Sitting at my table was Gideon Fauth from 
F.H. Stoltze Land and Lumber Co., a medium-sized timber company 
in the area. He was big and ruddy-faced and wore an old sweatshirt 
and jeans. "Our forests are in dis-gust-ing condition," he said, 
paunching his lips at each syllable. "They're bein' destroyed by fire or 
ice storms or dwarf mistletoe comin' in like cancer and instead 'a 
THE NEW jOURNAL 



**Montana's Forest Experiment: A New Approach to Resource Management**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In the Montana wilderness, loggers and environmentalists have 
learned to work together to settle their differences, raising hopes of a 
new approach to managing the nation's forests. 

cuttin' it for our families here in the U. S. of A., we're bringin' in 
wood from goddamn Siberia and Chile. Make me sick." He spat out 
these last words. 

Sitting next to me was Bob Love, an independent logger from 
Columbia Falls and a member of FFP. He looked average-medium 
height and build, medium brown hair with some gray, Levi's and a 
plain t-shirt-but his eyes and voice seemed particularly calm. "When 
it comes right down to it," he said, "our forests have survived pretty 
well without us." He shrugged while Fauth's face turned red and 
quivery. 

"Let's move on," said the moderator at our table, walking 
nervously toward the flip-chart, his hands, legs, and eyeglasses going 
in all different directions. 

A 
month later, the Forest Congress office had consolidated and 
refined the comments from the roundtable into vision 
statements and sent them to the ballroom floor of the 
Sheraton Hotel in Washington, DC. The 1,300 congress participants 
spent four days modifying and voting on these statements of intent. 
The process was part bargain and part bully, part reason and part 
reflex. One table had just taken up principle 33. which states that 
roadless areas of at least 5,000 contiguous acres, including old growth 
forest, should be retained for biological refuge and scientific controls. 
The table was quiet for several minutes, each person considering 
what the others might be thinking. Hidden sounds became loud: 
people adjusting their bodies, licking their lips. Elizabeth Estill, a 
forester for the U.S. Forest Service in Colorado and chair of the table 
for the day, spoke first. "I basically agree with this," she said. 
"Roadless areas are necessary." 

"Yes," replied Herb Winer, a forest consultant and adjunct 
professor at the Yale Forestry School, "but I don't like the idea of a 
broad prescription where decisions need to be made for a specific 
area." 

"We're hounded all the time about protecting old growth," said 
Jerry Duffy, the manager of two biomass-powered electrical plants in 
Georgia, "but most of it's not even natural. Most of it's from fire 
suppression." 

"I think this principle is too specific where it needs to be more 
SEPTEMBER 6, 1996 
vague," pressed Winer. 

"Does this apply to all private and public land?'' asked Billy Jo 
Christy, a mill worker for Stone Consolidated Paper Company in 
Washington. 

"I don't know, but I think it puts too many constraints on 
managers," Duffy said. "I'm not going to give away my keys and 
checkbook with this one." 

There was another silence. "I guess we just don't agree on this," 
said Estill. "But we're running out of time, so let's take a vote." 

Three voted red (against), one green (for). Other tables voted 
similarly, with only 15 percent of the congress supporting the 
principle. 

Voting finished two days later. The participants voted for 12 of 
the 13 vision statements and nearly 17 of the 21 main principles, 
emphasizing sustainable management and the diverse uses of forests. 
Duffy and Christy firmed their friendship with a handshake; Winer 
and Estill traded business cards. Participants at neighboring tables 
sighed in exhaustion; some tossed their hats into the air. A few 
hugged and cried. Everyone applauded. 

This million dollar conference was just vaporous talk, some 
environmentalists complained. Most of the vision statements 
spoke of "sustainability" and "stewardship," but the one 
statement that was not accepted advocated more recycling and the 
efficient use of forest products. The Forest Congress also promoted 
the use of open legislative procedures, but did not speak out against 
the emergency salvage rider, which was rolled onto section 2001(a) of 
a spending recessions bill last fall and has protected qualified timber 
sales from citizen appeals. Steve Kelly, an environmentalist with 
Friends of the Wild Swan, said the thousand-odd citizens should have 
marched to the Capitol and demanded legislative reform, including 
the repeal of the salvage rider. "Consensus," said Kelly, "seems like just 
another word for status quo." 

The Forest Congress was not meant to address specific legislation 
or solve knotty resource problems, Gordon said, but simply to 
develop a vision for the nation's forests. The congress humanized local 
disputes, enabling new coalitions to develop. People who would never 
have been seen together at home shared stories about hobbies and 
families over drinks in the hotel bar. "Specific 
changes in forest management will come 
locally from groups that develop out of the 
congress," Gordon said. Gordon points to 
FFP as a model for the local groups he hopes 
will form. 


FP formed in the winter of 1994 when 
Keith Olson of the Montana Logging 
Association got some friends together 
over coffee. He invited Brent Mitchell of the 
Audubon Society, who said he wanted to 
open dialogue with timber workers; two 
loggers, Floyd Quirum and Jack Jay, who 
told Olson they wanted to get more "diesel 
smoke blowin' and wood chips flyin'" on 
federal land; a community college professor 
active in consensus processes; and a forestry 
professor from the University of Montana. 
"We wanted to sit down and have a talk," 
Olson said, "maybe work some things out." 

The meetings started with democratic 
rules: each participant would speak as an 
individual, not as an organizational 
representative; each would speak honestly 
and politely; the group would work together 
on actions upon which everyone agreed. 

Conversation at the early meetings, Mitchell 
recalled, was charged with the feeling that 
something important was happening. After 
six months, the meetings opened up. 

As many as two dozen community 
members now attend the bimonthly 
meetings and about 80 receive the meeting 
minutes. Still, some environmentalists 
denounce the meetings as "foot rubbing 
sessions with the timber industry," and some 
loggers say they won't put their livelihood on 
the table for "flower-lovin' environmentalists." 

Last year, three members of FFP-Carol 
Daly, a mediator with the Flathead 
Economic Policy Center, Steve Thompson of 
the Montana Wilderness Association, and 
Olson 
of the 
Montana 
Logging 
Association-wrote the Forest Stewardship 
Demonstration Bill to encourage more 
small-scale logging on federal land. The bill 
has been introduced in the U.S. House by 
Rep. Pat Williams (D-MT) and in the 
Senate by Sen. Max Baucus (D-MT). 

Currently, the Forest Service sells trees 
directly to mills, which usually hire the 
lowest-bidding logger to harvest the wood. A 
stewardship contract authorized by the bill 
would allow the Forest Service to choose 
loggers directly, as private land owners do, so 
the agency could select loggers on the basis 
of experience and past performance as well as 
price. 

Once selected, the loggers could make 
their own harvesting decisions, following 
certain guidelines, rather than mechanically 
cutting marked trees. "Giving a skilled logger 
marked trees," Love says, "is like giving an 
artist a paint-by-numbers set." 

Stewardship contracts would be small-
the volume would be limited to 300,000 
board feet (300 MBF), about one-quarter 
the size of an average sale today, and would 
favor small loggers since bidding would be 
restricted to contractors with 25 employees 
or less. There are over a dozen contractors of 
this size in the Flathead region, compared to 
about five mills. Lastly, a citizens' 
stewardship council, drawn from volunteers, 
would meet in open-door sessions with the 
Forest Service to help plan the contracts and 
choose the loggers. "This would be an 
optional program," stresses Daly. "Just 
another tool in the toolbox." 

One afternoon during the Forest 
Congress, Daly, Thompson, Love and I met 
with Sen. Conrad Burns (R-MT) to try to 
solicit his support for the stewardship bill. 
After we waited half an hour, the senator 
finally greeted us with a big country grin. 
Burns was a radio announcer for crop and 
cattle prices before running for the Senate. 
After six years in office, he still has a voice 
deep enough and gut large enough to make 
him look like a Montanan. We sat down on 
a leather couch with Burns in an oak chair 
across from us. Daly and Thompson talked 
about the rationale of the bill and Love 
discussed some of its practical implications. 
Burns said he was wary of supporting a bill 
sponsored by his Democratic cohorts. 

We walked out of the room tired. 

Someone asked, "So, do you think he'll 
support it?" I don't remember who asked 
because we were all thinking the same 
question. Each of us was afraid to answer it 
out loud. I looked at Love and he just 
shrugged. Months later, Burns called a 
Senate committee hearing on the 
stewardship bill, but he still did not commit 
his full support. 

THE NEW JOURNAL 


Last summer, months after the Flathead 
roundtable and the forest congress, I 
traveled back to the Flathead region. 

Before going to an FFP demonstration 
harvest, which used the stewardship council 
promoted in the legislation, I spent the 
morning with Love. More than anyone, Love 
epitomizes FFP's mix of corporeal workers 
and activists. During the day, he'll install new 
valves on the engine of his bulldozer, then 
over warm dessert with his family at home, 
he'll tell stories of Indian spirits and chakras. 

He and I went out to one of his logging 
jobs and spent the morning chipping tree 
limbs. He chips the cut limbs after 
harvesting, which allows him to cover 
machinery trails and keep nutrients on-site, 
while also meeting state standards for fire 
control. Most loggers pile "slash" and burn it, 
leaving fire scars and exposed sites for weed 
infestation. I stuffed tree limbs into the 400-
pound blade of the drum chipper. It pulled 
the wood in fast and thrust out the chips 
with a sound almost as loud as an airplane 
engine. I wore earplugs, but took them off 
occasionally for the thrill of the noise. 

Meanwhile, Love cleaned up an area near 
the log house. He drop-started his saw to cut 
large pieces of slash into manageable sections 
and directed the 28-inch-long blade 
unconsciously, as if it were a part of his hand. 
Around the big logs he quickly tightened 
choker cables, as if the wood were greased, 
and pulled them to the landing with his 
bulldozer. 

Over lunch he told me stories: his having 
to hike two miles back to his truck after a 
rotten spruce settled back and broke his 
ankle; a fellow sawyer slicing his trigger finger 
down to the bone; another sawyer cutting a 
lodgepole pine which snapped down another 
and another in a quick circle until one 
knocked him dead as he was running off. 

Love has the grit of working almost 20 years 
as a logger. 

Love believes that the best he can do for 
the forest is to leave as much as possible of 
what's already there. He rejects the moral 
relativism that all forestry treatments are 
acceptable as long as they meet the manager's 
objectives. He speaks out against Plum Creek 
Timber Company's clearcutting in the local 
newspaper. 

Love practices what he calls "wild 
forestry." He thinks of trees as a hunter thinks 
of its prey: eliminate cripples in a herd and 
leave strong bucks to reproduce. "Wise 
hunters," he said, "know when to stop 
hunting so the populations stay strong the 
next year." If he's not fully confident he 
should take a tree, Love leaves it standing, 
just as a hunter might let his prey run, even if 
he had it in his sights. 

Under that afternoon, I went to the FFP 
demonstration project on the Flathead 
National Forest. Before it was cut, the 
30-acre stand had dense patches of Douglas fir 
and lodgepole pine, tightly pressed against 
ponderosa pine. Cutting thinned out the fir 
and lodgepole and revealed ponderosa, which 
are so tall and ancient that my pace 
necessarily slowed out of respect when 
walking under them. These ponderosa-
named after the Latin *pond*osus meaning 
"heavy, weighty, significant"-are about 200 
years old, with stout trunks and branches 
thick as muscular arms. In the wind, their 
limbs stand firm, while the boughs of Douglas 
fir jangle as if ornamented. 

After FFP called for volunteers for the 
stewardship council over one year ago, a 
group of about 20 area residents came 
forward. The group directed the harvest from 
the start-choosing the site, selecting the 
harvest treatment after consulting with Forest 
If he's not fully confident 
he should take a tree, 
Love leaves it standing, 
just as a hunter might let 
his prey run, even if he 
had it in his sights. 
Service officials and forestry professors from 
the University of Montana, and monitoring 
the logging practices to make sure they met 
contract specifications. 

About 25 percent of the stand's original 
volume was removed in the harvest. The 
tough western larch and ponderosa pine that 
remained had dominated the stand before fire 
suppression this century. All harvesting was 
done on frozen ground to reduce ground tear; 
some thick patches of fir and lodgepole were 
left where deer and elk bedded; and dead 
standing trees were retained for bird nesting. 
Prescribed understory fires will now be 
introduced to the stand: one section will be 
burned every three to five years, another every 
20, and another not at all, as a control. One 
forester called it a "light-footed, selective 
harvest," another said it "looks like it's been 
done in night slippers." 

Bob Love, an independent logger from 
Columbia Falls, Montana. 


**Title: Stewardship Contracting**
**Author: Bryan Foster**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"We had good luck with this group," 
said Swan Lake District Ranger Charles 
Harris. "I had final authority, of course, but 
we all basically agreed on things or talked 
them out, so I didn't have to override 
anyone." The process took months longer 
than a conventional sale, where the Forest 
Service decides which stands to harvest and 
which treatments to use, and then seeks 
public comment. But Harris hopes that 
public involvement early on will preclude 
lengthy judicial and administrative appeals. 
He wants to use the stewardship council 
again next year, he said . 

Love was glad to see citizens working 
with the Forest Service in Condon, but was 
disappointed that much of the small yet 
usable timber was discarded into large brush 
. piles for burning. Stewardship contracting is 
needed to get the right person for the job. 
Love, for example, uses the whole animal 
during his harvests, even some of the smallest 
parts-firewood, pulp, posts and poles. 

T
he next day I joined a meeting on 
stewardship contracting sponsored by 
FFP and the Pinchot Institute for 
Conservation, a Washington, DC, forest 
policy organization, in a windowless 
conference room in Kalispell. Some Forest 
Service officials at the meeting argued that 
the current timber bidding system can be 
patched into a stewardship-like package. 
"The solution Lies more in the creative use of 
the current system than in the creation of 
more processes and Laws," said Jeff Sirmon, 
formerly with the Forest Service and now 
working for the Pinchot Institute. 

"We need this bill to change the 
paradigm from getting the logs out to caring 
for the forest," countered Thompson of the 
Montana Wtlderness Association. 

"Look," said Mitchell of the Audubon 
Society, cocking one eye to Forest Service's 
Dave Spores at the front of the room, "We've 
spent a long time coming up with this bill 
and now we need your agency's support to 
get it through." 

Spores had feathered silvery hair and 
wore a green polo shirt, tan slacks and a 
silver watch. I pictured him with his wife 
and family, barbecuing burgers in a trim 
suburban yard. Love wishes there were fewer 
Forest Service employees like him and more 
who were familiar with the land, who 
appreciated a simple meal and shady place to 
rest more than backyard barbecues and 
VCRs. 

"The Forest Service generally doesn't 
support legislation. We just respond to it," 
Spores said to Mitchell. "The Code of 
Federal Regulations is our bible and doing 
things in the best interest of the public is our 
golden rule." 

"Come on," Mitchell tightened up, "our 
community wants these stewardship sales 
and we will give you all the support and 
manpower you need. Just tell us who's in 
charge so we can get this through." 

"It's hard to say," said Spores. "These 
things move up a variety of levels. 
Oftentimes substantial policy viewpoints are 
not shared. But we're trying to be responsive, 
at least at the locallevd." 

I thought of Love, who, earlier in the 
summer, took a group of Forest Service 
officials to a lodgepole pine stand on public 
land that had been attacked by mountain 
pine beetles. The trees were all brambled up, 
the branches of one tree twisted into those of 
another, and the needles were aU brown and 
red, as in an overexposed photo. Here were 
30 acres, with a decent volume of fully dead 
timber needing to be removed so shade-
intolerant seedlings could grow. This was 
one of many small stands Love had seen near 
existing roads and mills and outside of trout 
or bear habitat. But Forest Service officials 
said they were under time pressure and had 
to prioritize large volume salvage sales, even 
if that meant building new roads or cutting 
live trees. 

I saw the irritated and frustrated feelings 
of most FFP members in Mitchell's face: 
pinched-up and angry, then wan and drawn 
down. 

O
n the drive home from the 
stewardship conference, I stopped 
by to see Love and his wife Inez 
once again. Love and I stayed up late that 
night, talking through a full moon in his tall-
windowed dining room. I 
remember 
smelling dirt and diesel on his clothes and 
hearing him say he liked to keep his eyes 
adjusted to the natural light of the sun and 
moon. 

He saw me off early the next morning. 
The grass was thick with dew in the woods 
near his house, so each breath I took felt like 
a drink. Wet air soaked into my mouth, ran 
down my throat. A gray jay scolded us from 
nearby. 

I asked him about FFP. "Will it last?" 
"I don't know," he said simply. "We've 
done our part, so it depends on the Forest 
Service now. None of us can afford ro spend 
another two years on 60 acres of 
demonstration harvests." 

"What are you going co do?" I asked. 
"I'll just keep logging, keep writing 
editorials," he said. "Heck, I'm just starting." 

When I took a few seeps back, the tall 
lodgepole seemed to be surrounding him like 
guardians. 

Bryan Foster is a graduau of the School of 
Forestry and Environmental Studies.


**Title: MARINE OFFICER**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
-
-----------
MARINE OFFICER 
RESERVE A SPOT FOR OFFICER CANDIDATE SCHOOL (OCS) IN QUANTICO, 
VIRGINIA FOR THIS SUMMER. 
COMPLETION OF EITHER THE 6 WEEK, OR 10 WEEK LEADERSHIP COURSE 
REQUIRES NO OBLIGATION ON YOUR PART TO ACCEPT A COMMISSION 
AS A 2ND LIEUTENANT IN THE MARINE CORPS. 
RECEIVE UP TO S1,350 A YEAR IN FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE. 
IN ADDITION, RECEIVE MORE THAN 51,500 FOR THE SUMMER 
TRAINING. 
GUARANTEED "ACTIVE DUTY" COMMISSION UPON COMPLETION OF OCS AND 
THE FULFILLMENT OF A BACHELOR'S DEGREE. 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS: 
ATTEND OFFICER CANDIDATE SCHOOL AFTER YOUR FRESHMAN, 
SOPHOMORE, JUNIOR OR SENIOR YEARS AT COLLEGE. 
MUST ENJOY WORKING OUTDOORS AND LEADING OTHERS. 
BE IN TOP PHYSICAL CONDITION. 
HAVE GOOD ACADEMIC CREDENTIALS. 
. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: 1-800-255-USMC 
,, 



Print and 
Mail 
Services 
155 Whitney Avenue 
432-6560 
~ = 432-6274 
EMAIL: AFDLETII@YaleADS 
149 York Street 
432-2679 
ALSO Of'f'ERING 
f'ull color copies 
Course materials 
Complete mail service 
Graphic design 
Affordable Copies 
Quick turnaround 
' = 
"' 
Offset printing 
High quality 
Pickup and 
delivery 
Optical character recognition 
Network accessibility

