Publication date: October 18, 1991
Volume: 24
Issue number: 2


**MASTHEAD:**
- **Editor:** Jennifer Pins


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
About This Issue
Letter To The Editor
The New Haven Godfather
Guardian Angels
Between The Vines: A Rude Awakening - Jay Porter
Union Strife-A Yale Tradition - Emily Bazelon
Racing for the Mayor's Seat - Kathy Reich
Yale In Drag - Susan Dominus
The World According to Yale - Joel Tesoro
Evangelicals: Faith at Yale - Julian Ku
A Gallery Divided - Kate Brewster


**Title: About This Issue**
**Author:**  (Not specified)
**Page number(s): 5**


**Title: Letter To The Editor**
**Page number(s): 6**


**Title: NewsJournal**


**Title: The New Haven Godfather**


**Title: Guardian Angels**



**Title: Between The Vines: A Rude Awakening**
**Author: Jay Porter**
**Page number(s): 28**


**Title: Union Strife-A Yale Tradition**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 8**

Union Strife-A Yale Tradition ..... by Emily Bazelon. With labor negotiations slated 
for the winter, the University appears as antagonistic as ever. Will Yale repeat its 
mistakes of the past?


**Title: Racing for the Mayor's Seat**
**Author: Kathy Reich**
**Page number(s): 12**

Racing for the Mayor's Seat ... by Kathy Reich. Has New Haven 
Mayor john Daniels bungled city government? And would challenger 
jonathan Einhorn do a better job?


**Title: Yale In Drag**
**Author: Susan Dominus**
**Page number(s): 16**

Yale In Drag ... by Susan Dominus. With a philosophy somewhere between a 
gay fraternity and a performance art troupe, the House of Safari Absolut 
empowers gay, black men who find little support in the Yale community.


**Title: The World According to Yale**
**Author: Joel Tesoro**
**Page number(s): 19**

The World According to Yale ... by Joel Tesoro. Why is East Asian Studies booming 
while Latin American Studies falls apart?


**Title: Evangelicals: Faith at Yale**
**Author: Julian Ku**
**Page number(s): 22**

Evangelicals: Faith at Yale ... by Julian Ku. Increasingly dominated by 
Asian-Americans, Yale's evangelical groups strive to create a spiritual awakening.


**Title: A Gallery Divided**
**Author: Kate Brewster**
**Page number(s): 25**

A Gallery Divided ... by Kate Brewster. Stacks, the Art Gallery's showcase 
contemporary sculpture, stands as a silent remindn of a two-year-old rift 
between the Gallery and the History of Art tkpartment.


**Title: About This Issue**
**Author: JGP**
**Page number(s): 5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
With Yale's budget in shambles, the unions on 
the verge of strike, and New Haven divided 
by politics of class and race, why did we put 
a drag queen on our cover? What is it about a small 
group of gay black men that comprise the core of the 
House of Safari Absolut that intrigues us? We'd like to 
think that groups such as Safari Absolut(page 16) and 
Asian evangelicals at Yale (page 22) raise issues beyond 
the confines of their own agendas. In an environment 
as heterogeneous and intimidating as Yale, all of us 
need to carve out our own space. The members of 
Safari Absolut often feel estranged from the very 
groups that were designed to support them, so they 
have created their own. Though the 12 members of the 
group may seem too few to warrant attention from a 
university of 12,000, we found that their search for an 
accepting community carries a universal message. 
Are we merely voyeurs, exploiting lives for a 
cover shot? We hope not. Our stories go beyond a 
voyeuristic gloss, and we want our readers to come 
away with a deepened understanding of what lies 
underneath a seductive exterior. We may all be taken 
by the spectacle of wigs and gold lame at a Co-op 
dance, but by investigating the lives behind the image 
we shed light on our community and ourselves. And in 
putting together the magazine we have learned that the 
House of Safari Absolut and the Campus Crusade for 
Christ share more than either group might imagine. 
-JGP 
0cro&ER t8, 1991


**Title: Letter to the Editor**
**Author: P. Thomas Sargent (BK '58)**

To rhe editor: 
I found "The Last Bastion: Wolf's 
Head Confronts Coeducation" 
[Sept. 6] fair and balanced. You 
did an excellent job of presenting 
both views of an admittedly 
thorny issue. 

While nor necessarily agreeing 
with Sam Chauncey's politics or 
perspectives, I have always 
admired him for speaking our for 
what he believes in. I would rake 
exception with Sam, however, for 
quitting Wolf's Head "in disgust" 
(I wasn't aware he had until your 
article) after the failure of rhe 
1984 vore 
ro 
change the 
membership srarus. 

I, for one, promise Sam rhar I 
will nor quit "in disgust" when 
Wolf's Head becomes coed, which 
I am convinced ir will with the 
next membership ·vote. After all, 
shouldn't a Yale education, at the 
margin ar least, leave us with some 
respect for the democratic process? 

Perhaps we would all have been 
better served by Sam had he been 
willing to stay in the group 
lighting candles rather rhan 
quitting the darkness. I hope he'll 
rejoin when the issue is resolved ro 
his liking. 
P. Thomas Sargent 
(BK '58)


**Title: Elm City Godfather**
**Author: Charlotte Brooks**
**Page number(s): 6**

"Political influence? I wasn't aware I 
had any." 

Modesty aside, Arthur Barbieri-
New Haven's quintessential machine 
politician-is no feeble dinosaur. After 
decades of work behind the scenes to 
maintain a fractious party coalition, 
the 75-year-old Democratic Town 
Chair still wields real power. State and 
local politicians respect Barbieri's abili-
ty to garner votes through persuasion 
and patronage. 

The wall that leads to Barbieri's 
office includes photos of John F. 
Kennedy, Frank Sinatra, and former 
New Haven mayors Richard C. Lee 
and Bartholomew Guida. Even U.S. 
Representative Rosa DeLauro (D-3) 
counts the Town Chair as a close ally, 
though she once worked for machine-
breaker Frank Logue, mayor of New 
Haven from 1976-79. "Rosa and her 
family go back years with the New 
Haven Democratic Party," says Paul 
Frick, DeLaura's chief-of-staff. "She 
worked with Logue a long time ago." 
Such testimony shows that Barbieri's 
machine has not become a political 
anachronism. 

During his first tenure as Town 
Chair from 1953 to 1975. Barbieri 
boasted an electoral Midas touch. He 
unified the party behind two-time loser 
Richard Lee and delivered the mayor's 
office to the Democrats in 1953. With 
Barbieri's help, Lee triumphed in seven 
more mayoral elections. Barbieri then 
threw the weight of the machine 
behind Bartholomew Guida, who won 
three consecutive victories. 

"We--the Democratic Party-had 
a very close relationship with the Lee 
and Guida administrations," recalls 
Barbieri. But voters and politicians in 
the post-Watergate era began to regard 
the machine with suspicion. When 
Guida tried to run for a fourth nomi-
6 THE New JouRNAL 
nation in 1975, Frank Logue, then an 
alderman, blew the whistle on the 
"closed corporation." Logue charged 
that Barbieri had single-handedly guar-
anteed Guida the Town Committee 
endorsement. When voters chose 
Logue over Guida in the primary, 
Barbieri resigned as Town Chair. Logue 
rode Democratic 
all the way -to 
Arthur Barbieri: no feeble dinosaur 
the mayor's office. 

Though the machine enjoyed a 
return to power from 1979 to 1989 
with the election of Mayor Biagio 
DiLieto, its heyday had ended. "The 
parties today are not what they used to 
be," Barbieri mourns. "More indepen-
dent-minded people are being elected 
to office, which leaves very little to knit 
the party together." Party cohesion 
crumbled when John Daniels carne to 
power. 

Barbieri's estrangement from 
Daniels provides a marked contrast to 
his close ties wich Lee and Guida. 
Although Barbieri says he would never 
take public action against a Democrat, 
bitterness creeps into his description of 
the current relationship between the 
administration and the party. ''I'm not 
close to the administration," he says. 
"They don't call me vety often." 

The mayor's failure to endorse 
Barbieri for the position ofTown Chair 
in the 1990 election further weakened 
their tie. "After I endorsed John 
DeStefano, Daniels did not ask me to 
resign. He wanted me to help hm;, and 
I did everything I was asked to do," 
recalls Barbieri. "But then, for reasons 
known only to him and those around 
him, they wanted to unseat me." 

According to insiders, Barbieri's 
nominal support for Daniels does not 
match his heartfelt support of past 
machine politicians, Leaning across the 
expanse of his marble desk, Barbieri 
shakes his head wearily as he contem-
plates che uptoming contest. 'Tve 
always predicted elections," he says, 
"but I'm not going co predict this one." 
Party splintering may explain Barbieri's 
hesitancy. "There are indications that 
Aldermanic President Frank Grasso 
(D-12) might endorse Einhorn," says 
Steve Ury, chair of the first ward. "No 
one's sure what Barbieri's going to do 
about it. His old-line people are break-
ing away, and he may sit this one out." 

Still. Arthur Barbieri's commit-
ment to the Democratic Party and to 
New Haven remains strong. "I regis-
tered Democrat because I believed that 
the Democratic Party was the party of 
the people, and I believe that today," 
he says. Barbieri always leaves his door 
open so that anyone who wants to can 
come in and see him. His cylindrical 
office, with its red velvet wallpaper and 
gold double doors, reflects the eccen-
tricities of a man who used to stride to 
the speaker's podium at Democratic 
functions to ~he theme from "The 
Godfather." The days of the united 
machine may be over, but Barbieri 
remains. 
-Charlotte Brooks 
OCTOBER 18, 1991 


**Title: Guardian Angels**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Guardian Angels 
Silently stalking downtown New 
Haven, the red-bereted Guardian 
Angels are on a self-appointed mission 
to eradicate crime. "It looks quiet 
tonight," said Elliot 'EZ' Zaret into his 
hand-held radio. Since February, when 
the Guardian Angels hit the streets, 
the city has embarked on a new era of 
crime prevention. Many New Haven 
residents see the patrol, trained iri 
martial arts, as the answer to drug-
related crime and the 75 vacancies on 
the police force. 

"A lot of what we do is deter-
rence," said Zaret (MC '91), who 
organized the Angels' New Haven 
chapter. "Because we were on the 
street there wasn't a crime committed. 
We see someone that looks innocent 
and a guy that looks like he's going to 
mug somebody, and they don't con-
nect because we're there." The Angels, 
who carry no weapons, have patrolled 
New Haven since February 13. They 
operate under no special jurisdiction 
and only make citizens' arrests~hold­
ing a suspect captive until the police 
arrive. Zaret said that although he has 
had few run-ins while on patrol, he 
would like to have made more arrests 
to boost morale. 

"These people are cowards, that's 
why they hide behind the gun and the 
gang colors," Zaret said. "If you come 
up with six on one they can't shoot 
you all. There'll be witnesses. You're no 
longer the easy target." When Angels 
enter the headquarters before patrol, 
Zaret searches each one for weapons 
and drug paraphernalia-they must be 
"clean enough to pee in a cup." Then, 
Wednesday through Saturday nights, 
the Angels hit the streets in red berets 
and military-style clothing to fight 
crime. 

'93) wants the Yale Dean's Office to 
recognize the Angels as a student 
group in order to encourage student 
involvement. Currently, the Angels 
recruit by handing out flyers and by 
word of mouth. Two weeks ago 
Elizabeth 
Lane, 
a 
20-year-old 
paramedic, joined the chapter as the 
first female trainee after she heard 
about the group from a colleague. 

Haphazard recruitment, however, has 
failed to draw on all segments of the 
community's population. 

The New Haven chapter does not 
include a single black member. The 
racial imbalance of the mostly white 
patrol has sparked race-specific reac-
tions in the New Haven community-
now over one-third black. In the 
downtown area, white men in business 
suits give the Angels the thumbs-up 
signal as they pass by, but further 
down Chapel Street the group is met 
by thrown bottles and profanity. 

"Until the black youth get involved, 
the Angels won't be as effective as they 
could be," said Ida Wells, the president 
of George Crawford Manor's tenant 
association. 

Despite their shortcomings, the 
has formed at a crucial moment. 
Infighting and factions in the Police 
Department have left the public in the 
lurch. September's "blue flu," when a 
quarter of the force called in sick to 
protest Chief Nicholas Pastore's 
attempts at reorganization, under-
scored the need for collective activism. 
The Angels stress neighborhood self-
reliance. "Do it yourselves," Zaret 
exhorted Westville residents at a town 
meeting. "There's nothing stronger 
than you, looking out for yourselves, 
on your own block. The Guardian 
Angels and the police aren't going to 
do as much as you, the people." 

The police department's recent 
failures have elevated the Angels to the 
ranks of heroes among many New 
Haven residents. Members help orga-
nize block watches and neighborhood 
patrols. Zaret further increases visibili-
ty when he attends town meetings and 
talks to residents. It will take time, 
however, to determine just what 
impact the Guardian Angels have on 
community crime. "Some people see 
us as just a drop in the bucket," said 
Stark, a Guardian Angel. "I prefer to 
think of us as a drop of red dye." 

Although Zaret founded the New 
Haven chapter, only one fellow Yale 
student joined him in the ten-member 
group. Patrol leader Jeff Ald~ich (BR 
Th~ Guardian Ang~ls patrol a housing proj~ct. 
Ocroal!llrS. 1991 
THE NEW JouRNAL 7 


<br>

**Title: Union Strife·-A Yale Tradition**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 9**

Union Strife·-A Yale Tradition 
Emily Bazelon 
T
his January, Yale will likely continue its unhappy 
tradJtion of labor dJscord. Yale and Local unions 34 
and 35 last sat at the bargaining table in September 
1988. In stark contraSt to 1984's year-long strike, adminis-
trators and workers agreed to a contract in four months of 
talks. This time the unions may have a third partner. Led by 
the Graduate Employment and Student Organization 
(GESO), Yale's graduate students are attempting to orga-
nize, with full support from the unions. "The only way to 
deal with Yale is through organizations," said Lucille 
Dickess, current president of Local 34 and an administra-
tive assistant in the Geology Department. "And three are 
better than one." 

For the unions, past experience proves that success lies 
in solidarity. Since 1968 Yale has suffered from the most 
turbulent labor history in the Ivy League. Local 35, which 
represents Yale's mostly male custodial, janitorial, and main-
tenance staff, struck repeatedly in the 1970s. Labor strife 
reached a fever pitch in 1984, when Yale's clerical and tech-
nical workers organized into Local 34. Members of the new 
union, 85 percent of whom were women, claimed Yale's pay 
rates reflected a gender discrepancy of 59 cents to the dollar. 
When the clerical and technical workers walked out 
over the issue of equal pay, Local 35 joined them. "The uni-
versity didn't believe that the men would support us, but 
they were wrong," said Dickess. "We work with each other 
very closely, and in 1988 we broke the strike pattern by sit-
ting down with Yale together and winning a decent con-
tract." 

A growing number of graduate students hope to follow 
in 34's footsteps. GESO made the first move towards form-
ing a union when they joined Yale's Federation of University 
Employees. The fledgling union launched a membership 
pledge drive this fall but so far has not enlisted a majority 
of Yale's graduate students. GESO opposes the Kagan-
Pollitt plan, which requires Ph.D. candidates to complete 
their degrees in six years and has cut 20 percent of teaching 
fellow positions over this year and next. In addJtion, gradu-
ate student health care fees rose 45 percent this year, which 
means that some TAs pay one-third of their salaries for 
health insurance. 

"We want a contract with the university in January," 
said GESO spokesperson Gordon Lafer (GRD '94). "We've 
spent years talcing part in study groups and making reports, 
and we've come to the conclusion that the cuts won't stop 
0crOBER 18, 1991 
unless we come together and force the issue." While some 
grad students fear the new union will force an agenda upon 
them, GESO's leaders believe their constituency supports 
them. Locals 34 and 35 have donated office space and 
management tips to GESO, and together the three groups 
hold rallies to protest university policies. 

According to the university, GESO complaints lack real 
basis. Yale claims that graduate-program costs top the list of 
fastest-rising items on the budget. "The Kagan-Pollitt plan 
did not reduce the money for grad students. The amount 
In january Yale could face its second 
major strike in eight years. This time 
the unions may have a third partner. 
lost in salaries, and more, has gone to pay for fifth- and 
sixth-year dissertation fellowships," said Charles Long, a 
deputy provost. In order to save money, the university plans 
co accept fewer grad students and require them to graduate 
faster. "Right now, we have more Ph.D. candJdates than we 
need or car;t afford," Long said. 

Even if GESO's complaints hold water, administrators 
believe that graduate students do not have the right to form 
unions. Yale's main labor negotiator Peter Vallone claims 
they receive teaching stipends as part of their scholarships, 
not as salaries. Because Yale does not define them as 
employees, the grad students cannot legally unionize with-
out university recognition. "The university will not sit 
down to discuss compensation, hours, and conditions of 
work with any group of graduate students," said Vallone. 
"Nor will we extend voluntary recognition to them. This 
could become a legal issue, and because we have a very 
strong case I believe we'd prevail." 

But GESO believes that if graduate students unite, the 
university will have to acknowledge them. "Yale defines 
itself as a community based around the common pursuit of 
study, not as a factory," said Lafer. "It will be very difficult 
for them to tell us, 'Shut up, we're not going to deal with 
you,' regardless of what the law says." 

Both GESO and the unions resent what they call Yale's 
"high-handed" approach to problem-solving as much as 
they do its specific policies. The organizations found espe-
THE NEW jOURNAL 9 



**Title: Yale Labor Disputes**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
cially rankling the university's failure 
to consult its workers, students, and 
faculty before it decided which areas 
to cut this year. "The administration 
runs this place like a dictatorship: they 
understand what's best for us, and we 
don't," said Clarence Mosely, deputy 
steward for Local 35. "With the bud-
get scenario this year nothing was dis-
cussable-they just drew a line in the 
sand." Deputy Provost Long acknowl-
edged that Yale imposed the recent 
round of cuts from above. "We're real-
ly going to try for wider community 
involvement in the implementation of 
future cuts," he said. 

But for the unions and GE$0, 
such gestures come too late. Already 
both cite cuts in the library system as 
a destructive choice. Yale phased out 
7 1 positions in the libraries this year 
and only avoided lay-offs by absorb-
ing the cuts through attrition. The 
shelving and cataloging departments 
no longer run at full strength, and 
plans to enter pre-1977 works onto 
Orbis have been scrapped. New 
books will enter the computer system 
only through the author-tide cata-
logue, which makes research by sub-
ject difficult. 

Union leaders point to the 
library as the spot where student and 
worker interests converge. "The lost 
jobs in the library have a direct 
impact on the quality of academics_ at 
Yale," said Nancy Ryan of Local 34. 
"Come crunch time this winter when 
people have term papers to do, the 
numbers of lost books due to lack of 
shelving will be extremely notice-
able." She also says the library cuts 
won't save money in the long run. 
"When books aren't shelved they get 
lost, and then have to be reacquired 
and processed, which is expensive." 

Y
ale justifies its draconian mea-
sures as a necessary evil. With 
leaky roofs and crumbling case-
ments, the university channels every 
spare dollar into physical plant reno-
vation. Union officials do not dispute 
that Yale's buildings need repairs but 
argue that renovation should not 
undermine services. "They're planning 
to take from the operating budget like 
it's a cookie jar, and that's just not nec-
essary," said Michael Boyle of Local 
34. 

The unions believe Yale has con-
cored the budget crisis just in time for 
the January negotiations. "In prepar-
ing for talks, the administration will 
plead poverty to try to lower the 
union's expectations," said Dickess. 
"But we are the people who work here 
and deal with their money, and we 
know it's a matter of priorities." The 
unions refuse to take Yale's budget 
worries at face value. "They're going to 
have to document the financial prob-
lem," said Dickess. "Why aren't the 
books open? They say the tabulations 
are too complicated. I say if you have 
nothing to hide, what is your prob-
lem?" 

According to Vallone, the univer-
sity has complied with union requests 
for information whenever possible. 
"We're sharing everything we have 
that relates to the current budget situ-
ation," he said. "They asked for which 
programs would and would not get 
funded in the next five years. There is 
no such document, and if there is it 
would not be appropriate to make it 
public." To the unions, the adminis-
tration's reluctance to share budget 
information indicates that Yale does 
not see its workers as peers. "Yale's 
attitude is one of ar~ogance and pater-
nalism," said Dickess. 

Administrators counter that 
union members see the budget 
through a distoned lens of self-interest. 
"A great portion of the budget is 
restricted for specific uses, and the 
unions don't appear to accept that," 
Vallone said. "It's easy to sharpshoot 
decisions about how money should be 
spent depend~ng on one's own con-
cern. We recognize and respect the 
unions' role on campus, but that 
doesn't mean that in January we'll roll 
over and play dead." 

As the contract deadline nears, 
job security looms as the most contro-
versial item on the agenda. The 
administration plans to reduce Local 
34 employees as part of cutbacks. "We 
have a finite set of dollars, and once 
the Corporation made the decision to 
renovate, we had to size down in other 
places," explained Vallone. "This will 
primarily affect the administrative


--- Page 11 ---

"Yales attitude is one of 
arrogance and 
paternalism. " 
support staff." Though the university 
has laid off fewer than I 00 people to 
date, Long says more dismissals will 
follow. "Yale has a policy of maintain-
ing competitive staff salaries, and I 
strongly believe we shouldn't fall 
behind in this area. It's much better to 
reduce the numbers of people we 
employ." 

The unions, however, do not buy 
the argument that Yale must fire some 
of its union employees. "In Local 34 
we have a turnover rate of over 500 
people a year," said Boyle. "That 
leaves plenty of room to downsize-
management could redistribute some 
of the work rather than replacing 
everyone. The idea of needing to fire 
at will is a sham." 

The increase in "casual workers" 
disturbs Locals 34 and 35 as well. 
"The administration is continually 
penny-wise, pound-foolish," said 
Boyle. Casuals receive keys to univer-
sity buildings and pose a potential 
security risk. They also work for lower 
pay, but because they have less experi-
ence they often get hurt more, which 
costs Yale in worker's compensation 
and medical care. 

Since medical costs increase 20 
percent every year, Yale wants to scale 
back. "We spend $15 million a year 
on a very liberal policy in which Yale 
pays for pretty much everything," said 
Vallone. The unions will discuss ways 
to keep down medical costs-like dis-
couraging people from claiming work-
er's compensation-but do not feel 
the current package has any padding. 
"The Yale Health Plan is the cheapest 
Health Maintenance Organization in 
Connecticut," said Boyle. "Yale is not 
a small-time employer getting screwed 
by Blue Cross." 

F
or the unions, the option to 
strike offers a way to force Yale's 
hand. But with the recession, 
workers have a lot more to lose than 
they did in 1984. "Yale is the company 
in a company town," said Local 35's 
Mosely. "But it's hard when they 
stretch us like rubber bands until we 
break." The university agenda for the 
talks does not leave much room to 
breathe. "Employees are part of the 
balancing act," said Long. "When we 
negotiate, we're looking at a bleak eco-
nomic picture." 

GESO's ability to affect January's 
negotiations remains unclear. In the 
event of a strike, members of all three 
organizations will vote on whether or 
not to walk out together. Still, the pre-
sent level of cooperation is high. 
"Personally, I would never cross a 
picket line anywhere, ever," said 
Dickess. "And I consider myself repre-
sentative." In a recent poll of Local 35 
members, 90 percent said they would 
strike for recognition of GESO. 

At present, GESO and Locals 34 
and 35 want to reach out to students 
and faculty in order to build a consen-
sus about the budget crisis. By focus-
ing attention on cuts to amenities like 
the libraries, which Yale's academic 
excellence demands, they hope to fos-
ter campus-wide protest. But if the 
campus remains unmoved, or if the 
university chooses not to listen, Yale 
will face its second major strike in 
eight years. 

Emily Bazelon, a junior in Pierson, is 
an associa~ editor ofTNJ. 


**Title: Racing for the Mayor's Seat**
**Author: Kathy Reich**
**Page number(s): 12**

J
ohn Daniels most likely will win a second term as New 
Haven's mayor on November 5, but with two weeks to 
go the challenger is giving him a run for his money. 
With his conservative stands on ·crime, the budget, and 
public housing, Alderman Jonathan Einhorn (R-25) has 
attracted a sizable following even though Democrats out-
number Republicans in New Haven 10 to 1. An ups.et vic-
tory would make him New Haven's first Republican mayor 
in over 30 years. "It really has more to do with John Daniels 
jonathan Einhorn persistently denies he plays racial politics. 
than it does with me," Einhorn claimed. "He's alienated a 
lot of New Haven." 

Two years ago, Daniels' election seemed to herald a new 
era in New Haven politics. In a city where a conservative 
· Democratic machine had ruled almost J.l.ninterrupted since 
1953, he defeated the machine candidate in a mayoral pri-
mary. Weeks later, backed by a multiethnic coalition of 
black and white progressive Democrats, Daniels coasted 
into office as the first black mayor in New Haven's histoty. 

But his victory quickly soured, as New Haven's fiscal 
and social problef!lS mounted. Daniels inherited a $12 mil-
lion deficit from former mayor Biagio DiLieto, which 
remains even after Daniels slashed city jobs and essential 
services. Critics charge that City Hall teems with bad man-
agement, and New Haven's crime rate has soared to the fifth 
~ highest in the nation. Dreams of a multiethnic coalition 
-. have crumbled, as white residents in middle-class neighbor-
hoods object vehemently to the city's "scattered-site" hous-
ing plan, which mandates government purchase of single-
family homes on their streets for poor black families. 

As minority leader on the Board of Aldermen, Einhorn 
has emerged as Daniels' main critic. W here Daniels has 
instituted community-based policing, Einhorn wants to 
install metal detectors in high schools and call in the 
National Guard to fight crime. Daniels endorses the con-
cept of scattered-site housing, while Einhorn vows to let 
neighborhoods decide whether or not to accept subsidized 
housing--even though New Haven stands to lose millions 
in federal aid if it segregates public housing in poo( black 
areas. 

To many voters Einhorn's conservatism represents a 
promising new approach to the city's social ills. Some 
machine politicos also tout Einhorn to get back at Daniels. 
'They want him swept from office so they can put up a can-
didate more to their liking in two years," said Brian 
Anderson, a former Republican Town Chair. 

On a more serious note, some Daniels supporters allege 
that Einhorn has subtly exploited racial tensions to get votes 



**Title: New Haven's Mayoral Race: A Tale of Two Cities**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
from whites in New Haven's Italian and Irish neighbor-
hoods-many of whom fear that blacks have taken over 
"their" cicy. "Einhorn has made this a racial campaign," said 
Alderwoman Toni Harp (D-2). "He only serves one part of 
the community .. If he wins, Dixwell and the Hill can look 
forward to benign neglect, if not conscious contempt." 


n 1990, the U.S. census reported that for the first time 
whites no longer formed a decisive majority in New 
Haven. While they still comprise 54 percent of the total 
population, blacks now make up 36 percent and Latinos at 
least 13 percent. "It's a time of racial change in the city, and 
to every action there is a reaction," said Alderman Mike 
Morand (D-1, DIY '92). "Einhorn appeals to Wesrville, 
Wooster Square and East Shore-the areas of New Haven 
with the lowest concentration of minorities." 


When Einhorn announced his candidacy in April, he 
spoke before an almost entirely white crowd. At the 
announcement speech, Joel Schiavone, then Republican 
Town Chair, told reporters that Daniels had purged all 
whites from top city jobs. "He's focused almost single-
mindedly on blacks," Schiavone told the N~w Haven 
Regisw. "He has not opened up to people of all shapes and 
sizes." 


Schiavone has since left the campaign, but allegations 
of racism have dogged Einhorn ever since. Critics claim 
Einhorn's speeches about crime and scattered-site housing 
promote fears of violent blacks in the inner city. "He's play-
ing on race very slickly," said Paul Bass OE '82), editor-in-
chief of the N~ Havm Advocau. "He hasn't come out and 
said 'nigger,' but he knows that wouldn't work." 


Einhorn persistently denies that he plays racial politics. 
In fact, he denies that racism affects New Haven society at 
all. "I honestly believe that racism is not a problem in New 
Haven," he said. "The city is ethnically diverse and poor, 
but that doesn't mean that it's racist." Alderman Chris De 
Pi no (R-18) complains that opponents have tagged Einhorn 
as racist merely because he told the truth about the Daniels 
0crOliER 18, 1991 
Mayor john Dani~ls struggles to hold th~ ~dg~ until Nov~mbn: 
administration. "When you raise a competency question 
about someone, and you're white and he's black, you're 
called racist," De Pino said. "Racism is ugly, but it's also a 
buzzword for journalists and the liberal media. It makes a 
nice soundbite. Ninety-nine percent of the time, there's no 
basis for it." 


In response, Morand and others point to the residential 
and educational segregation that still exist in New Haven; 
the East Shore neighborhood is 98 percent white, Hillhouse 
High School 98 percent black. They claim that at a recent 
Housing Authority meeting where hundreds of angry 
whites protested scattered-site housing, some screamed out 
remarks like, "Have you ever seen a white drug dealer?" "I 
can't believe Einhorn can say there's no racism in New 
Haven,'' said Joshua Karlin, Daniel's campaign spokesper-
son. "How can you expect him to be sensitive to other races, 
to promote multiculturalism?" 


Einhorn does have some minority support. The Puerto 
Rican Action Committee recently endorsed his candidacy, 
as have a few black Republicans like Brian Anderson. But 
by and large Einhorn's constituents live in New Haven's eth-
nic white neighborhoods. These voters feel the city has 
devoted resources primarily to poor black neighborhoods at 
the expense of others. Einhorn plays on their suspicions that 
Daniels ignores a large chunk of the city-not just middle-
TH£ NEW jOURNAL 13 


class white enclaves like East Shore, 
but also racially mixed, poorer areas 
like Fair Haven. 


Alderwoman Harp, who is black, 
believes that minorities will lose out 
under an Einhorn administration. 
"Einhorn has blinders on; he doesn't 
see blacks and Latinos," she said. "He 
sees New Haven as Westville and the 
East Shore." 


D 
aniels himself grew up in the 
housing projects of the Hill. 
When he first served on 
Board of Aldermen in the 1960s, New 
Haven's Italian-Irish Democratic 
machine dominated politics in the 
city. "The machine functioned for the 
sole purpose of getting people elected 
to city and state offices," Einhorn 
recalled. "The oil of the machine was 
the ability to give out jobs." Under 
this system, relatives and friends of 
machine politicos dominated the city 
payroll. 


By the time Daniels entered poli-
tics, the machine had accepted blacks 
into their ranks, and Daniels worked 
within the system. He served as major-
ity leader of the Board of Aldermen, 
then as a machine-backed state senator 
for ten years. Daniels decided to take 
on the machine in 1989 when he chal-
lenged Mayor Biagio DiLieto, a con-
servative Democrat with ten years in 
office. To everyone's surprise, DiLieto 
dropped out of the race. "He probably 
just saw the writing on the wall-the 
fiscal problems that were around the 
corner," Morand said. 


DiLieto and the machine backed 
bureaucrat John DeStefano for the 
mayoralty; Daniels put himself for-
ward as the people's candidate. His 
victory spawned optimism in New 
Haven for a "rainbow coalition." 


Some of his ideas had remarkable 
success. Daniels' needle-exchange 
experiment became a ~odd nation-
wide. His community-based police 
program, in which beat cops cooper-
ate with neighborhood residents to 
14 THE NEW JouRNAL 
prevent crime, earned praise with 
its potential to cut down on police 
brutality and ensure community 
cooperation in law enforcement. 


Despite Einhorn's accusation that 
the mayor has not squeezed 
enough money from Yale, Daniels 
made more progress with the Yale 
Corporation than any other mayor 
in New Haven history when he 
sold the rights-of-way to parts of 
High and Wall Streets. 


In 
exchange, Yale agreed to pay $1.1 
-
turnover of power to the R~gisur this 
September: "Everyone from the mayor 
right on down to the deputy majority 
leader will be a black or Hispanic. 
They can control all the committees 
and shut out every white alderman in 
the city." 


Conservative Democrats like 
Grasso began to drift closer to 
Einhorn. The son of a Republican 
who ran unsuccessfully for mayor in 
1965, Einhorn grew up in Westville_. 
As his neighborhood's alder since 
Einhorn's campaign postn-s gkam from his upscak Orang~ Strut h~adquaren-s. 
million for fire services that had 
always been free. 


But Daniels struggled with a 
deficit that threatened to send the 
city into bankruptcy, and some of his 
appointees didn't seem to know how 
to run a government. The city's mur-
der rate spiraled; its infant mortality 
and AIDS rates soared to the highest 
per capita in the nation. And old 
machine politicians found them-
selves crowded out of government. 


Board of Aldermen President Frank 
Grasso (D-12), who may soon lose 
his post to Latino Alderman Tomas 
Reyes (D-4), complained of the 
1977, he frequently criticized the 
DiLieto administration and the 
Democratic machine, once comparing 
them to the vice and corruption of 
Tammany Hall. Such rhetoric may 
cost him with voters loyal to the old 
machine. Though Reyes admits that 
many machine politicians have decid-
ed not to support Daniels, "In terms 
of public support,. very few Democrats 
have moved over to Einhorn." 


Even his supporters acknowlege 
that Einhorn has his flaws. His atten-
dance at Board of Aldermen meetings 
hovers around 30 percent, and he 
recently paid a $915,000 settlement in 


a malpractice suit filed against his law 
practice. Einhorn has yet to announce 
any concrete budget proposals, and he 
vows to scrap the Wall Street agree-
ment with Yale, even though the 
mayor lacks such authority. But his 
tough-on-crime, 
tough-on-Yale 
rhetoric has proven a powerful magnet 
for disaffected, largely ethnic white 
working- and middle-class voters. 


''Americans are fed up with politicians 
and incumbents," the Advocatls Bass 
said. "New Haven's problems are diffi-
cult, and everyone's confused and frus-
trated with trying to solve them." 


Daniels still holds the edge in 
election polls, and Reyes and Harp 
both believe the media has overstated 
the number of Democrats who sup-
port Einhorn. But the challenger may 
pull off an upset, particularly if dissat-
isfaction with Daniels translates into 
low turnout at the polls. "If I had to, 
I'd pick Daniels, but the race could 
definitely go either way," Bass said. 


If he wins, Daniels wants to reor-
ganize city finances, sponsor new edu-
cational programs for local youth, 
launch a city-wide job training pro-
gram, and put New Haven on tourists' 
maps with such projects as the Volvo 
tennis tournament. Moreover, Daniels 
supporters believe he will continue to 
foster a rainbow coalition where 
blacks and Latinos share power and 
resources equally with whites. 


Einhorn argues that Daniels has 
squandered his opportunity to rejuve-
nate New Haven. "People hear the 
death knells for the city," he said. 
"The mayor makes no decisions; as in 
Hom~ A/on~, the parents are gone. 
There's no one in control." However, 
many doubt that Einhorn would 
prove any more effective than his pre-
decessor. "Daniels is a crummy mayor, 
but Einhorn would be worse," Bass 
said. "On the balance it's a disappoint-
ing choice." 
18) 


**Title: Yale in Drag**
**Author: Susan Dominus**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
They say that in the height of the 70s, disco diva 
Safari Absolut put aside a brilliant career in dance to 
come to Yale. Her sacrifice wasn't easy. Black, poor, 
and gay, she found that Yale scorned her. Students called 
her a whore, a pervert, unpatriotic-but Safari Absolut 
refused to let them get her down. Instead she started a tra-
dition of outlaw parties and presided over them until she 
met her tragic end doing the two-step at a Gay and Lesbian 
Co-op dance. While purely fictional, her story provides the 
founding mythology for the House of Safari Absolut, a 
small group of primarily gay black men from Yale and New 
"When you>re poor, black, and gay, 
your natural response is to wish you 
were someone else. " 
Haven who strive to affirm their identities in the face of 
homophobia and racism. 


The concept of the house originated in the early 70s as 
a support mechanism for the gay black men of New York 
City who confronted the poverty and violence of urban life. 
While the mission of the House of Safari Absolut is less 
urgent than that of its New York counterparts, each pro-
vides a haven for members who feel alienated from their 
communities. "The house allows a certain refuge, so that at 
the end of the day when the straight white people hate you, 
when the gay white people hate you, and when straight 
black people hate you, you have someplace to go," said a 
senior member of the Hquse. 


The House's philosophy lies somewhere between those 
of a gay fraternity and a performance art troupe. It devotes 
most of its considerable creative energy toward small-scale 
local parties, either at Yale or with the House of Hudger, 
another New Haven house. Jimmy Raines (SY '92) 
described these parties as "orgiastic extravaganzas" held off-
campus or in whatever Yale classroom happens to be empty. 
Although the House publicizes such parties as Love Feast 
and Trip 2069 ("an absurd futuristic party adventure into 
16 TH£ NEW JouRNAL 
flesh and fantasy") with posters on campus, the Yale com-
munity remains unaware of the House itself. .. At Yale, 
there's a whole other experience that most people know 
nothing about, an experience that's tainted with all these 
different evils," Raines said, recalling parties with tureens 
full of cocaine and elegant pastries laced with acid. 


In the tradition of the New York houses, some House 
members dress in drag for their parties, decked in elaborate 
ensembles. One member appeared at a party in a dress 
made entirely of Saran wrap with food coloring for decora-
tion; at another he wore a gold lame halter top with dol-
man sleeves and matching shorts that laced up the front. 


For members of the House, cross-dressing demon-
strates a refusal to accept gender constraints. Some wear 
drag to suit what they perceive as their ambiguous sexual 
identity. "I might wake up one day and think, 'Well, I'm a 
boy,' so I'll put on what the rest of the world sees as boy 
clothes," said Danny Preston (PC '92). "But sometimes I'll 
wake up and think, 'I'm a woman-so watch out!' And I'll 
throw on my little A-line dress and my high heels and hit 
the streets." 


Others in the House cross-dress to leave behind one 
identity and replace it with a more empowering one. Each 
member creates a new House persona and renames himself in 
the process. "I know that no matter what other accomplish-
ments I might achieve along the way, I am first and foremost, 
above any other identity, a gay black man," said Raines. "But 
when I'm Lady Cooch de Ville I become a grand, awesome, 
fearsome type of queen. Knowing that I'm special in this cir-
cle gives me enough to push it through the day." 


Most members name themselves after favorite female 
icons or divas. Creswell Formey (SY '92), for example, 
chose the name Mahogany Chambers with Diana Ross in 
mind. Mahogany refers to the name of Ross' most famous 
movie, in which she played a cha~acter with the last name 
of Chambers. "I worship Diana," said Formey, "and I guess 
I model a lot of my behavior after her and women like her. 
When I'm talking to people, I might do a gesture that I saw 
Diana do in an interview." He tilted his head back and 
flashed a dazzling smile for the audience-Diana protesting 
the flattering suggestion her interviewer just offered. 


---

Paradoxically, the men of the House of Safari Absolut 
choose to emulate the sex symbols of the heterosexual soci-
ety they defy. Yeshi Isaho (a conflation of 'Yes, she is a ho') 
believes House members admire the stature these women 
hold as strong models in black culture, rather than their 
roles as sex symbols. "These women may be mapping out 
what looks like traditional heterosexual desire," he 
explained, "but they don't all behave like that. We're talking 
about women like Aretha Franklin and Tina Turner, who 
overcame all sorts of abuse. These women are strong." 


While Safari Absolut defines its own agenda, 
members follow the lead of the prominent New 
York houses. Their parties appropriate the tradi-
tion of the "ball"-their pageantry of extremes, where gay 
men dress to look like a woman, a straight man, or any of 
their favorite divas. At the ball, crowds cheer the. elaborate 
dress of the drag queens as they judge the performers on 
their ability to "pass" as bona fide women. If the house 
offers these men a physical refuge from the ~angers of 
urban life, the ball allows them a temporary ·emotional 
release. "When you're poor, black, and gay," said Raines, 
"your natural response is to wish you were someone else." 


New Haven residents who frequent the House appreci-
ate its unusual stability. Malcolm, a local dancer who 
turned down offers from the House of Xtravaganza, chose 
Safari Absolut because of its distance from the fiercely com-
petitive ball circuit. He described the "mopping and boost-
ing," or stealing, that goes on at houses whose members 
don't object to shoplifting a $2000 Chanel belt in the name 
of the ball. 


Safari Absolut complements GBLOC (Gays, Bisexuals 
and Lesbians of Color) by serving as a social support group 
rather than a political organization. Four men created the 
House in 1989 to redress the unresponsiveness of the two 
established support groups, the Gay and Lesbian 
Cooperative and the African-American Cultural Center. 


Some House members condemn the Co-op for offenses 
ranging from overt racism to understated lack of concern 
for black gays. Many feel excluded from the Co-op's social 
circle. "The Yale gay community is very incestuous," said 



**Title: The World According to Yale**
**Author: joel Tesoro**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T
he Yale Center for International and Area Studies 
stands in the midst of a storm over the future of 
Yale as a world university. As enrollment triples in 
classes like colonial Latin American history and introducto-
ry Korean, Yale's interdisciplinary international programs 
struggle to keep up with a growing student interest in the 
world. Behind the Center's aspirations, however, lie crucial 
historical and structural problems that may determine not 
just how but what foreign cultures and societies Yale will 
teach. As James Scott, a political science professor, put it, 
"This is still a university very much centered on the Anglo-
American world." Attempting to expand as Yale contracts, 
the Center tries to use limited funds and resources to sup-
port a multitude of programs and finds itself unable to save 
them all. 

The Center acts as Yale's clearinghouse for any activi-
ties of regional or international focus. These include the 
seven Area Studies councils, a thriving International 
Relations (IR) graduate program, and the new 
International Studies major. Recent fundraising coups, like 
the $10 million grant from the Luce Foundation for the 
Center's new building, two large gifts to East Asian Studies, 
and money from the government and from various corpo-
rations for International Studies, have launched 
International ;md Area Studies into one of the university's 
most prominent areas of growth. 

"In a sense, cultural studies are being defit:ted at Yale," 
said J. Michael Holquist, chair of Soviet and East European 
Studies (SEES). "In the past we have not been able to com-
pete because our strengths were not in the social sciences. 
'1nternational and Area Studies are 
not a priority at this unit;ersity--
they're like foster children. " 

We do have a lot of strength in the humanities. We are now 
in a period of transition, moving from a dated cold war 
model to a more diffuse study of cultures. This permits us 
to exploit our existing strengths." 

Since the Center's endowment and grants support the 
majority of its programs, the current budget cutbacks may 
not directly affect International and Area Studies. "In a 
period of cutbacks like this, programs like ours arc in a 
stronger posicion," said Deborah Davis, chair of East Asian 
Studies (EAS). By and large, however, grant money that 
flows inco the Cencer goes to already well-established pro-
grams. 

The faculty and library resources of fields like IR and 
EAS make them more attractive candidates for outside 
funding. Poorer programs like Latin American Studies 
Gaddis Smith runs a Cmur ~.fractious as th~ world it studia. 
(LAS) continue to depend on the Center's endowment for 
OcToBER 1s, 1991 
THB NEW JouRNAL 19 


their survival. As the Center's outreach 
coordinator Brian Carter said, "It's 
like the Biblical injunction: To those 
that have more will be given more." A 
stronger program also encourages 
more students to enroll. "If I were a 
freshman," said Abigail Horn (CC 
'92), a LAS major, "I would probably 
look into International Studies as a 
major only because it's so much 
stronger." 

Latin American Studies faces a 
crisis. A decade ago, LAS ranked 
among the most active councils at the 
Center, with a strong library collec-
tion, a large number of professors in 
the social sciences, and three full-time 
workers. Loss of funds and faculty 
have decimated the program. "Now all 
they have is an answering machine," 
Latin Ammcan Studi~s major Abigail 
Horn has sun h~r program crumbk. 
said Shawn Smallman (GRD '94), 
who studies Latin American history. 
Last year, Daniel James, an associate 
professor of history, left Yale for a 
tenured position at Duke University, 
leaving the department with no senior 
Latin American expert. 

Without faculty in policy-orient-
2.0 THE NEW jOURNAL 
ed fields like economics, political sci-
ence, and history, the council has lost 
many government grants. Weak pro-
grams like LAS find themselves caught 
in a vicious circle: they cannot get 
money without faculty, and they can-
not hire faculty without money. "It 
has occurred to me that LAS needs to 
be phased out in order to jolt 1he 
administration into making a com-
mitment to it," said Mary Miller, 
chair of LAS. "I don't see why we 
should grace the blue book with the 
illusion that we have it when we 
don't." 

P
rofessor Gaddis Smith, director 
of the Center, oversees an enor-
mous number of people and 
programs, broadly organized under 
either a topical or a regional focus. 
Topical studies include the undergrad-
uate International Studies major and 
International Relations-a two-year 
M.A. program with a current enroii-
:.:J ment of 63 students. The seven Area 
! Studies councils make up the Center's 
regional division. These include EAS, 
LAS, and SEES, which offer under-
graduate majors, as well as African, 
Middle Eastern, Southeast Asian, and 
West European Studies. Last year, the 
Center and the councils sponsored 
175 conferences, seminars, and lec-
tures, hosted visiting scholars, pub-
lished books and assisted research. 

"The place is organized like the Holy 
Roman Empire of the 11 OOs," said 
Carter of the councils' divergent agen-
das, "with little fiefdoms and cross-
cutting allegiances." 

Is Gaddis Smith, then, the 
Center's benevolent emperor? "Yes, 
but I don't have much to be benevo-
lent with," he said. Erratic funding 
has plagued the Center since the early 
70s, when the Ford Foundation grants 
that helped create it ran out. Like 
international studies centers at other 
American universities, Yale's Center 
traces its origins back to the early 60s, 
when global political and social 
changes triggered a flood of funds 
from foundations and government 
into universities. 

Money went to graduate fellow-
ships, retraining faculty to specialize 
in foreign issues, and the creation of 
international "centers" nationwide. 
"In a panic, they created experts on 
every country in the world," said 
Kenneth Maxwell, a visiting lecturer 
in history. As foundations lose interest 
in global studies, the money dried up. 
Is Gaddis Smith the 
Centers benevolent 
emperor? 

The economic contractions of the 70s 
further prev~nted universities from 
hiring the new regional and interna-
tional experts they had produced in 
the 60s. 

When the Ford grants to Yale 
expired, the university nearly abol-
ished councils without endowments. 
After the director and the council 
chairs desperately lobbied the univer-
sity, international and area studies 
continued at a near-subsistence level. 
Yale's present financial contribution to 
the Center remains small. Sixty per-
cent of the Center's funds come from 
its own endowment, 30 percent from 
assorted grants and only 10 percent 
from 
the 
universiry's 
General 
Appropriations 
budget. 
"Yale 
University per se provides us with an 
office and pays for our telephone 
rental," says Barbara Munck, senior 
administrative assistant at African 
Studies. 

W h ile some councils, notably 
EAS and SEES, found alternate 
sources of fUnding, others could not. 
Wealthy constituencies and the gov-
ernment's political and economic 
interests in Russia, China, and Japan 
contributed to the success of EAS and 
SEES 1n landing grants. Latin 
OCTOBER 18, 1991 


America and Southeast Asia, in con-
trast, remain marginal foreign policy 
concerns and attract few wealthy phi-
lanthropists. "It's hard to get money 
from Larin America for Latin 
America," sai<t Miller. James Scott, 
chair of Southeast Asian Studies, 
pointed out, "The reason why 
President Schmidt flies ro Hong Kong 
and Japan is because these are places 
with a big future. The reason why he's 
not going to Burma or T hailand is 
because there's no money there." 

The precarious status of interdis-
ciplinary fields further complicates the 
position of all the councils and pro-
grams at the Center, not just LAS. 
Without faculty of their own, the 
councils depend heavily on rhe hiring 
priorities of the actual departments. 
"It's politics," said Smith, "trying ro 
persuade people that it's in their inter-
est to hire more internationally mind-
ed faculty." So even though the Center 
does not depend on Yale for funding, 
many students and faculty worry that 
budget cutbacks could rob the pro-
grams of their professors. "Yale calls it 
downsizing," one professor said. "But 
what's happening here is a purge 
D~borah Davis' East Asian Studi~s 
council boasts famous faculty. 
according to some intellectual view." 

The university's faculty curs may 
contradict demands by a changing 
student body for a more international 
curriculum. Demographic changes 
and expanding multiculturalism have 
brought foreign cultures into modern 
education. "People are starting to feel 
that even if they don't' have a direct 
interest in ocher cultures, they 
should," said Melanie Drogin (BK 
'92), an EAS major. This fall, the 
Center's councils and programs guide 
100 graduate sruden ts and over 60 
undergraduate majors. East Asian 
Studies ranks as the tenth largest 
major in Yale College. "You're getting 
a much more diversified student body 
that demands-and rightly so-a 
more comprehensive view of what 
goes into the formation of the modern 
world," said Maxwell. 

Carter sees the recent influx of 
funds as an indication of a more vigor-
ous 
future 
fo r 
Center. 
"International and area studies is a 
part ofYale that is grotesquely under-
developed," he said. "It's not that 
we're leaping ahead, it's that we're 
starting to catch up." Bur the new 
Luce Building will fulfill only the first 
step in the Center's program of devel-
opment. Without sustained funding 
and persistent pressure, the universi-
ty's historical indifference to world 
education may prevail. "International 
~ and Area Studies are nor a very high 
........ priority at this university-they're like 
foster children, like an afterthought," 
said Scott. 

As already strong programs bene-
fit from new grants, the weaker ones 
decay. Larin American Srudic:s may 
require a massive infusion of money 
and support from the university as 
well as from the Center. The question 
remains whether Yale values an inter-
national education enough to make 
that commitment. 

g 
Jo~l Tesoro is a sophomo" in jonathan 
Edwards Co/kg~. 


**Evangelicals: Faith at Yale**
**Author: Julian Ku**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Evangelicals: 
julian Ku 
Faith at Yale 
((I would prefer to see this campus primarily 
Christian-not for my sake, but for everyone's 
sake," said Sidd Puri (CC '93). "If students don't 
have any reason to live and can only derive pleasure from 
things like getting drunk, it's a terribly empty life." Puri, 
pitch of the Christian singing group Living Water, believes 
most Yale students suffer from an unfulftlled spiritual need. 
Puri sees evangelical Christianity as an alternative to the 
non-religious lives he believes most students lead. Zealous 
religious beliefs and conservative social views alienate the 
evangelicals from the campus mainstream. Many have 
sought out Yale's tight-knit evangelical community as a 
haven. 

In recent years, the subculture of approximately 200 
believers has become largely Asian-American, adding racial 
and cultural bonds to the evangelical community. This year 
Asian-Americans comprise 12 out of the 16 singers in 
Living Water. Puri worries that Living Water may come 
aero~.; as an all-Asian group. "I don't know why there are 
suddenly so many Asians involved," he said. "It's a recent 
phenomenon, just over the past three or four years. It's not a 
bad thing unless everyone begins to think we are an Asian-


Living Water demonstrates the most dramatic change 
in racial makeup, with its increase from three to twelve 
Asian-American evangelical singers in two years. But other 
groups have experienced startling increases as well. Yale 
Christian Fellowship (YCF) has seen the Bible-study ses-
sions that form the core of its activities grow from 30 per-
cent Asian-American to over 50 percent. "Since I was a 
freshman, we've had a couple of Asian student leaders and 
the number of Asians has grown to more than half," said 
Toni Huang (ES '92), YCF's student leader. "I think Asians 
attract other Asians." 

The racial composition of these groups raises questions 
about the relationship between evangelical Christianity and 
Asian-Americans. "Historically, many Asian-American 
immigrants were Christian converts," said Linda Yueh, co-
moderator of the Asian-American Students Association 
(AASA). Some speculate that Asians converted to 
Christianity in order to gain easier entrance into the United 
States. Once here, however, the immigrants continued to 
raise their families in accordance with their new-found reli-
gion. "Since families are so important in Asian-American 
culture, it is not unusual for children to be influenced by 
their parents and remain religious," said Yueh. 

Beyond Yale's walls, Asian-American evangelism has 
sprouted at colleges nationwide. Campus Crusade for 
Christ (CCC), a national organization with a Yale chapter, 
sparks controversies at American universities with provoca-
tive posters and guest speakers. David Mahan, a Yale chap-
lain for CCC, says that chapters across the country have 
seen the numbers of Asian-Americans skyrocket in the past 
few years. Mahan welcomes. the influx. "It's exciting that 
Asian-
American 
communities are 
so open to and 
interested in following 
Christ. I think there is a 
greater spiritual interest 
among Asian-Americans than 
among your typical European-American 
groups." 

Tennis star Michael Chang provides a visible example 
of evangelism among young Asian-Americans. In 1989, 
when Chang became the only American man in three 
decades to win the French Open, his first words of thanks 
were to "My Lord and Savior Jesus Christ." 

Asian-American evangelicals at Yale express similarly 
strong feelings for God. "The Lord gave me a perspective," 
wrote Ruth Ku (CC '93) in the Fall 1991 issue of the Ya/~ 
Standard, a semi-annual evangelical magazine. "Now I cannot 
possibly run away from Him. Now, I owe Him my life." Such 
declarations of open faith seem out of place at a secular Yale. 
However, evangelical Christians talk like this every day and 
put their words into practice. Students in YCF meet weekly 
to study the Bible with other Christians in their residential 
colleges. Through these groups evangelicals deepen their 
faith and learn to apply the Bible to their lives. 

In the informal atmosphere of Bible study, evangelicals 
solidify their relationships with each other and with God. 
"'I tell you the truth, no one can see the kingdom of God 
unless he is born again'-
What does Jesus mean here?" 
asked the leader of a recent YCF Morse-Stiles Bible-study 
group about a passage in John. In the circle of the evangeli-


cals, faith-and the assumption that 
the Bible is the literal word of God-
replaces the academic approach of a 
Religious Studies seminar. 

E
vangelicals' faith includes a 
mission at Yale to spread the 
word of God. While Yale's evan-
gelicals do not boast the charismatic 
style of televangelists like Oral 
Roberts, their proselytizing has antag-
onized several groups on campus. In 
recent years evangelicals have attacked 
d rinking and pre-marital sex as well as 
abortion and homosexuality. 

CCC caused a stir last spring dur-
ing Bisexual 
Gay and Lesbian 
Awareness Days (BGLAD). They blan-
keted dining halls with table tents quot-
ing Biblical passages that decried homo-
sexuality as a sin. "It was not a condem-
nation-we just wanted to show that 
there is more than just one perspective 
on this issue," Mahan said. "The evan-
gelical Christians see BGLAD the same 
way they would see a National Adultery 
Week or a National Lying Week or a 
National Date-Rape Week."' 

Despite their stated intentions, the 
CCC table tents sparked outrage from 
the Bisexual, Gay and Lesbian Co-oper-
ative. Sam Zalutsky (PC '92), a mem-
ber of the Co-op, angrily attacked the 
CCC table tents for their insensitivity. 
Zalutsky worries that the table tents 
hurt religious people who struggle with 
their sexuality. "It upsets me that they 
believe such things. There are plenty of 
people who call themselves C hristian 
that accept homosexuality," Zalutsky 
said. "It's a fallacy that if I pray to God I 
won't be gay. I'm gay and proud of it. 
It's not something I can change." 

Despite the intransigence of a sec-
ular community, evangelicals continue 
fighting to christianize Yale. Their 
confidence that the Gospel supersedes 
all other moralities leaves them at log-
gerheads with much of the university. 
"People's attitudes on this campus are 
like this: 'Believe what you believe. 
T hat's fine-just don't bother me 
about it,' " said Michael Wang (ES 
'94), a member of CCC. "But we con-
sider the Bible a truth that is absolute, 
not relative. It's as if we knew 
Hurricane Bob was coming and we 
wanted other people to know. If peo-
ple don't want to hear, we still must 
tell them because the hurricane is still 
coming." 

-
julian Ku, a sophomor~ in Davmport, is 
busin~ss manag" ofTNJ-


**Title: A Gallery Divided**
**Author: Kate Brewster**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Mary Gardn~r N~i/1 stands by th~ controvmiai Stacks. 
OcrosER rl!, 1991 
T
wo years after a bitter dispute exploded between 
the History of Art department and the Yale 
University Art Gallery (YUAG), the two trape-
zoidal slabs of steel at the heart of the controversy stand 
almost unnoticed in the University's Sculpture Hall. Only 
a tiny sign near the entrance to the Art GaJlery identifies 
them as a sculpture: "Stacks, 1990. Richard Serra." The 
1989 commission of Stacks displaced the History of Art 
department's teaching collection of Renaissance and 
medieval sculptures and dramatically called to attention 
the Art Gallery's double function as a part of the 
Curators saw the acquisition as Yale's 
ticket into the high-stakes modern art 
market. 
University and as an independent museum. While pas-
sions have cooled since then, the issues of scant space and 
competing missions still haunt the gallery. 

The controversy began in May 1989, when plywood 
mockups appeared in the Sculpture Hall. They came as a 
shock to the History of Art faculty-the Gallery's direc-
tors had solicited the work without consulting the depart-
ment. "The commission wasn't out of the oven, but it was 
cooked," said Professor George Hersey. Faculty com-
plaints to the Art Gallery's director, Mary Gardner Neill, 
and President Schmidt spilled into the national press. 
Articles in Art N~ws and the N~w York Tim~s highlighted 
the dispute. Neill eventually made a formal apology, but 
Serra's commission stood. 

While the apology calmed emotions, it did not create 
space for the teaching collection. Gallery curators pro-
posed moving the older sculptures into the adjacent 
YUAG, but overcrowded conditions quickly put an end 
to the idea. Mter months of wrangling, the two sides 
agreed that the department could choose the most impor-
tant works to remain in the Sculpture Hall. The Gallery 


**Title: Rude Awakening**
**Author: jay Porter**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
F
or years I dreamed of arriving at Yale as a freshman. I 
imagined ivy climbing the walls of gothic towers, ven-
erable statues cloaked in the green patina of age, and 
library shelves holding millions of books. Names like "The 
Whiffenpoofs" and "Skull and Bones" echoed in my ears as 
I envisioned three centuries of privilege and tradition. I rel-
ished the stability and substance that I expected Yale to 
offer. 

It's not hard to imagine my shock when I finally arrived 
on campus to see students hawking T-shirts that mourned 
"The Death of the Commons Tradition." Suddenly budget 
deficits and administrative politics invaded my academic 
dream-world. Everyone bemoaned the decline ofYale while 
I struggled simply to find the language lab. 

Like any public school student of the 1980s, I have 
seen the fiscal axe fall. I know how hard it is to reconcile 
unlimited wants and limited resources. Perhaps I had dung 
tightly to the illusion of Yale's financial invulnerability 
because of the price tag attached to it. My parents certainly 
shared this delusion; they couldn't understand how a school 
that costs $22,200 a year could suffer from financial prob-
lems. Of course, the issue is more complex than that, but 
their response made me wonder about Yale's financial prior.:. 
ities. Suffice to say, if the current round of budget talks had 
been a French duel, the administration would have turned 
and fired after only three paces. Of course, my experience 
could have been worse. I could be a varsity wrestler suing 
Yale to reinstate the team that recruited me, or a Philosophy 
major in a department that barely exists. As things turned 
out, the Commons closure was probably a good lesson for 
freshmen, one of those bumps in the road that parents call 
"life's little disappointments." 

Most importantly, the surprises of my first few weeks 
have opened my eyes to a world beneath Yale's "Bright 
College Years" surface. Like the steam tunnels that run 
beneath Yale's streets, an underground network of rumors, 
whispers, and allegations snake through the freshmen class 
about the administration's plans for the future. Any conver-
sation about Yale inevitably turns to one scandal or another. 

Just as I had begun to cope with minor changes like the 
Commons closure, I found out that departments like 
Women's Studies and African-American Studies are crum-
bling under administrative neglect. Then I heard that even 
the study of philosophy at Yale is in danger of dying out. 

These important issues strike at the heart of the univer-
sity-"The Death of a Dining Tradition" pales in compari-
son. And the demise of departments is just the beginning; if 
you keep your ears open, the rumors will burn them off. I 
have heard positively salacious gossip about shadowy 
endowment deals and special professorships. Someone told 
me that Benno has a mysterious aide with a checkered past. 
Does he break kneecaps? Does he secretly run the universi-
ty with Benno as his witless puppet? Who knows? 

Such stories may sound funny to veteran Yalies, but 
they confuse, frustrate, and deeply disappoint freshmen 
with no point of reference. At this point, I'll believe any-
thing I hear about the Yale administration. Where they are 
concerned, truth is stranger than fiction, at least from my 
"fresh" point of view. Case in point: I expected a punchline 
when a junior told me that the same Benno Schmidt who 
now serves as dart-board fodder was the Beloved 
Beermeister of Berkeley just a few short months ago. As the 
Yale Police prepared to end the flow of suds at a courtyard 
party, Benno appeared (on a white horse?) to ,play some 
tunes with Quick Brown Fox. While the partiers chanted 
"Benno! Benno!" our president took a swig of a student's 
beer-without asking to see his drinking card first. For 
God, for country, and for self-aggrandizement. 

Perhaps that incident shows the full extent of Benno's 
concern for undergraduates; on the other hand, Yale 
College Dean Donald Kagan wants to invade every aspect 
of our lives. While Benno partied last spring, Don launched 
a holy crusade in the name of 
academia-against highlighters. To 
Kagan, those must-haves of college life 
actually act as tools of intellectual sub-
version, reducing a writer's life work to 
a series of random facts. No lie. Dean 
Kagan had it in for highlighters, and 
although he didn't succeed in remov-
ing them from the Co-op's shelves, he 
did earn a mocking soundbite on 
CNN Headline News. I had just 
accepted Yale's offer of admission 
when I saw it on TV. I should have 
seen the fluorescent writing on the 
wall. 

I'm glad that our administration 
provides comic relief in the midst of 
the tragedies they visit upon us. But 
underneath the humor lurk worrisome 
administrative woes. About the same 
time that Kagan waged the highlighter 
wars, he spoke to the ultra-conserva-
tive National Association of Scholars, 
in which he used Yale as a straw horse 
to attack the flaws of academic life. In 
one of the more offensive passages, 
Kagan declared that since everyone 
here is so darn liberal, classroom inter-
action between professor and student 
is more like "mutual massage" than the 
grand ideological struggle of his own 
school days. Of course, although he 
finds so much wrong with Yale, Kagan 
addressed his concerns not to the Yale 
community but to a convention of 
like-minded scholars (read: embattled 
reactionary relics). He lacked the good 
sense to make his criticism construc-
tive and the courage to present his 
views to the faculty. Instead, he jetted 
off to the convention and proceeded 
to slander Yale, its professors and its 
students. I always thought the admin-
istration existed to glue the university 
together, not to tear it apart. 

At some point all these incidents 
lose their humor. Quirky style and 
shady dealings belong in a David 
Lynch movie, not at Yale. A college 
president or dean should command 
respect and provide vigorous leader-
ship. After having spent a few weeks 
here, I haven't seen anyone in the 
administration who fits that defini-
tion. I don't expect a president to be 
universally popular and free of contro-
versy, but Yale needs someone who has 
earned the community's respect-real 
respect, not the kind earned at keg 
parties-to lead us through budget 
cuts and other difficult problems with 
a modicum of dignity. 

Many people already have written 
off the current administration as hope-
less. Some say that Yale has lost sight 
of its venerable traditions and academ-
ic goals and aimlessly drifrs anywhere 
but up. Perhaps they exaggerate, but 
while I go to my capped class, eat din-
ner in my college, and rush out of the 
prematurely closing library, I worry 
about the future. If Yale's reputation 
for excellence falls victim to laughable 
leadership, crumbling faculty rela-
tions, ruthless budget cuts and embit-
tered students, who will want to come 
here? Not the caliber of student that 
the vigorous academic life of Yale 
demands, and not the professors we 
have come to expect. 

Yale students cannot allow such a 
decline. One way or another, we must 
pull Yale out of this downward spiral 
of sad fact and rampant fiction. We 
have to channel our complaints about 
Commons and other controversies 
into a realistic discourse on how to 
cure the problems facing Yale. Who 
cares where we eat, as long as it's in a 
great university? I worry more about 
our administration's lack of vision. I 
would have felt silly demonstrating 
against the Commons closure, but I'll 
be there on Benno's lawn when a more 
serious budget cut rolls around, and I 
hope I won't be alone. If the adminis-
tration needs a strong vision for Yale, 
we students can provide one-even 
freshmen. Departments shouldn't dis-
integrate, administrators shouldn't 
snipe at faculty, and budget cuts 
shouldn't destroy the quality of stu-
dent life. 

But if the administration dis-
agrees, Kagan can tilt with liberal 
windmills until he destroys everything 
but his beloved "Common Studies." 
And Benno can just keep on playing 
the role of postmodern Nero. 

jay Porter is a freshman in Davenport 
College.



**Title: THE TASTE THAT'S WON THE WORLD OVER:**
**Author: None**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
71 Audubon Street, New Haven • 773-3878 
Printed In the USA 
---------r---------T---------
FREE HOT ToPPING. 
I 
FREE FROZEN YOGURI'. 
I FBI PltnYiml QUAin'. 
vw •• _ ;:n,_J. ~. ~~ . . Free hot topp_ing 
Buy any medium or large cup, or 
Lots of flavors available In our Take-
"rur: T'tC'I~ with any medium 
I freshly-made watne cone with frozen 
I Horne free:z.er. ln Original. Nonfat. And 
or large cup of frozen yogurt. Including 
yogurt. and get another cup or cone 
Sugar Free Nonfat. SO buy a quart. get 
Mrs.Rlchardson's Hot Fu<lge and 
1 of frozen yogurt of equal or lesser 
1 a plnt. Free. 
Butterscotc-h Car111mel Fud~ze. 
value. Free. 
Ta...,._Lialil..,._,........,_ __ ,., 
I T......,.,.,__cxr...-a ........... l 
-OIIIr...,Sa ,.........IC.\._11'1 
C.\ll-ell'oY--~o«•olid-
Y.-I&a1IIL c.c..-.. ftHII wtib •r .... cd& 
ecblfetf& 
.,,lice\ 
~ICiilta.uewDaU I 
~,..ca, 
~Yi~~Biii..,.!Va. 
~=-
"U':~ 
...... k\T-
11-. 
A• 
• 
La OIIW....... 
11/)Q/fl. 
"- TAiftl THAT'S WON 1'MI Wo.u» O¥IL"' 
1'MI TAiftl TNAT"' WON 1'MI WO.. OWia!" 
71 Audubon s~ 
New Haven 
71 Audubcn Strtod, New Havea ._, I 
773-33'78 
1111 
773-3878 
..... 
"-Ta. 1'IIAn WONTMI W... OWL• 
71 Aodubca S-, New Haven 


**Title: 1 Hour Color Print Film Developing**
**Page number(s): 32**

0 
D 
1 Hour 
Color Print 
Film 
Developing 
AREA'S MOST EXCITING PHOTO CENTER 
DOWNTOWN 
930 Chapel Street 
(Corner of Temple) 
New Haven, CT•624-2599 
WESTVILLE 
1440 Whalley Avenue 
(Jet. of Rts. 63 & 69, Exit 59 off Merritt) 
New Haven, CT•389-1447 

