Publication date: March 2015
Volume: 48
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD:**
- publisher: Briton Park
- editors-in-chief: Eric Boodman, Julia Calagiovanni
- executive editor: Ike Swetlitz
- managing editor: Maya Averbuch
- senior editors: Ashley Dalton, Emily Efland, Katy Osborn, Noah Remnick, Ezra Ritchin, A. Grace Steig
- associate editors: Caroline Sydney, Isabelle Taft
- copy editor: Douglas Plume
- photo editor: Stephanie Wisowaty
- design editors: Annie Schweikert, Edward Wang, Madeleine Witt
- illustrator: Madeleine Witt
- members and directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh
- advisors: Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O’Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- American Spirit on the Housatonic - Maya Averbuch
- Everyday Evil - Eric Boodman
- points of departure - various authors
- The Yarn Bombers - Ariel Katz
- Investing in Writers - Grace Hirshorn
- Fun in the Time of Tolerance - Austin Bryniarski


**Title: American Spirit on the Housatonic**
**Author: Maya Averbuch**
**Page number(s): 10**

What does it take for a Native American tribe to be acknowledged 
by the U.S. government?


**Title: Everyday Evil**
**Author: Eric Boodman**
**Page number(s): 20**

Can a new network of radical vegans change the mainstream liberal agenda?


**Title: points of departure**
**Author: various authors**
**Page number(s): 28**


**Title: snapshot: The Yarn Bombers**
**Author: Ariel Katz**
**Page number(s): 31**


**Title: profile: Investing in Writers**
**Author: Grace Hirshorn**
**Page number(s): 34**


**Title: endnote: Fun in the Time of Tolerance**
**Author: Austin Bryniarski**
**Page number(s):  [Page number missing from provided text]**



**Title: Nobody's Home**
**Author: Ruby Bilger**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
O
ne plowed road cuts through the center of John­
sonville, Connecticut, and snow is piled high on 
either side. Beyond the road’s ragged edges, about 
twenty Victorian houses stand empty. They’re scattered 
in this plot of land as if airdropped, randomly spaced 
and facing different directions, like pigeons that land­
ed in a snow bank. The paint on their walls is chipped 
and fading, save for a few remaining patches of jaunty 
red or turquoise. Some of their windows are broken 
but many are intact. One has a suitcase wedged into 
its frame. There are security cameras on every door. 
For many months, this village was for sale. It was 
on the market from spring 2013 until late last Octo­
ber, when all sixty-two acres of it went up for auction 
at the starting price of $800,000. Considering it is 
part of the town of East Haddam, where single-family 
dwellings that are not historic Victorian homesteads 
regularly sell for over $300,000, this asking price was 
almost desperately low. The auction closed on Hal­
loween and the property sold for $1.9 million to an 
undisclosed buyer. 

Johnsonville’s glory days have come and gone, a 
few times. From around 1850 to 1930 it was a pros­
perous milling community on the Moodus River. It 
was home to the Neptune Twine and Cord Company, 
owned by the village’s namesake, Emory Johnson. It 
was never much more than a company town—the 
mill, the mill office, the mill owner’s homestead, 
and a few workers’ cottages—but it did well enough. 
Johnson had the money to carve nice Victorian details 
into his wraparound porch. The century moved on, 
though, and as local manufacturing faded, the town 
went into decline.

Then, in the 1960s, local aerospace millionaire 
Raymond Schmitt acquired the town piece by piece—
starting with the mill—and turned Johnsonville into 
a Victorian-themed tourist attraction. He brought in 
period-appropriate structures from other Connecticut 
towns, including a chapel, a stable, and a steamboat. 
He refurbished all the buildings and stuffed them 
with antiques.

“That was the town’s real heyday,” says Luke 
Boyd, the creator of a website dedicated to Johnson­
ville. But it didn’t last. “East Haddam hated him. Here 
comes this carpetbagger guy, rich off the military-in­
dustrial complex, and he’s trying to bring tourists into 
this village.”

Schmitt got into a zoning dispute with the town 
and closed the attraction in 1990. He died in 1998, 
and the hotel management company, MJ ABC, bought 
the property in 2001. They tried to turn it into a 
55-and-over community with a health club and spa 
retreat before the 2008 
recession foiled their 
plans. Now it’s a ghost 
town, though it has al­
ways been a town in 
suspension—inhabited 
and declining, alive but 
only on display, owned 
and unoccupied, sold 
and abandoned.

During a blizzarding 
Saturday afternoon, two 
friends and I drove up to 
Johnsonville. The village came into view as we drove 
down Johnsonville Road. First came the Old Gilead 
Chapel, the small Victorian church that Raymond 
Schmitt bought from the town of Waterford, Connect­
icut, meticulously disassembled, transported to John­
sonville, and put back together. Its door shone bright 
blue. Then there was the Emory Johnson Homestead, 
its ornamented porch now peeling and neglected. 
Signs on doors and windows of every building around 
warned “NO TRESPASSING” and “PRIVATE PROPER­
TY.” But there was no graffiti, and the doors hadn’t 
been kicked in. Some light bulbs were on in front of 
the stable, a flickering reminder that anarchy doesn’t 
rule yet in Johnsonville. Boyd says there’s a caretaker 
who comes by from time to time, but he doesn’t live 
on the site. 

We parked in an empty lot and walked around. 
We threw up our hoods and tried to avoid the ancient-
looking security cameras, wading through a foot of 
snow to approach the buildings. It was sweet and a 
little sad to look at the loopy footprints we left around 
them, signatures in the snow, like some indiscreet tres­
passers had signed the guest book of the abandoned 
village. Looking in the windows, we saw the typical 
relics of incomplete decay—some mossy books, piles 
of wallpaper, woodchips, dented beer cans. Pity all the 
antiques had been auctioned off. Outside, it was damp 
and quiet, save for the occasional car sputtering by. 
And there was always the muted thudding of the river 
dam behind the homestead. 

The boom-bust cycle isn’t anything new for small 
communities reliant on a single local industry. But 
Johnsonville, which seemed to die a natural death 
when the mill closed, was resurrected unnaturally—
a Frankenstein patched together with other villages’ 
buildings. With the mill gone, its survival can only 
depend on tourism: the 
way it looks, and the fact 
that it’s there. And for 
now it seems it will be 
there until it crumbles 
completely. According to 
the real estate agency that 
handles the property, the 
undisclosed buyer has 
backed out. 

There’s a neatly sym­
bolic picture of Johnson­
ville that’s easy to find on 
the Internet. It’s of a short, weather-worn gate bearing 
a sign that says “Village Closed to Public.” We found 
this sign in front of a small cottage facing the road. 
Approaching the house, I noticed a Christmas tree 
through one of the windows, draped in illuminated 
white lights. Closer still, I saw that the inside of the 
house was fully furnished, with a runner on the ta­
ble and little doilies on the armchairs. We even heard 
music wafting from the back. Excited, we knocked 
on the front door, and when no one answered, we 
tapped on all of the windows. We walked all around 
the perimeter of the house, trying to catch a glimpse 
of someone. Vandal deterrent, caretaker’s secret home, 
domestic ghost residence—it’s not disclosed. No one 
in in the empty village came to tell us. 
Ruby Bilger is a freshman 
in Branford College.


**Title: IT’S SHOWTIME!**
**Author: Nate Steinberg**
**Page number(s): 6**

“T
his is our comeback,” said Andy Wolf. It was Janu­
ary 14, 2015, and the College Street Music Hall had 
big news to share. The theatre, after being shut down for 
thirteen years, announced plans to reopen in May. For­
merly known as the Palace, and then as the Roger Sher­
man, it had shut down in 2002 after nearly eighty years 
at the center of New Haven’s cultural scene. Even though 
it passed almost immediately into the hands of the New 
Haven Center for the Performing Arts, it has remained 
vacant since then. Now, recent changes in the small non­
profit’s leadership have sparked an effort to bring the 
property back to life. 

For Wolf, director of New Haven’s Department of 
Arts, Culture, and Tourism, this is about more than an 
old property regaining functionality. It’s about revital­
izing downtown through the performing arts. And al­
though it isn’t technically the city’s project—the funding 
has come from a private company—the idea behind it 
came from City Hall. 

Both Wolf and Mayor Toni Harp envision a complete 
transformation of College Street. Instead of just a few 
blocks with restaurants and theatres, City Hall wants to 
create a scaled-down Times Square, complete with neon 
marquees and throngs of pedestrians. The comparison 
with New York is not accidental. In recent years, musical 
acts have skipped over New Haven, moving straight from 
the Big Apple to Boston or Providence. Wolf wants those 
groups to stop at the College Street Music Hall. “Soon, 
New Haven’s going to be the sixth borough,” he said. 

To most, the idea that New Haven could sparkle like 
Times Square seems far-fetched. But when the venue 
opened as the Palace Theatre in 1924, New Haven was 
a major stop in the American performing arts scene. Ev­
eryone from Marlon Brando to the Marx Brothers passed 
through. For much of the twentieth century, the musi­
cals and vaudeville shows performed at the Palace The­
ater made it a cornerstone of New Haven’s cultural life. 
And with the Schubert Theatre just across the street, the 
image of College Street as a mini theater district wasn’t 
so far off the mark.

New Haven real estate mogul Joel Schiavone, whose 
company owned the Palace Theatre, renovated its façade 
and lobby in 1984. But when the company went bank­
rupt in the early 2000s, the Palace shut down. The Fed­
eral Deposit Insurance Corporation then acquired the 
building and stipulated that a nonprofit organization be­
come the next owner. That organization was the NHCPA.

The only problem was that the NHCPA did not have 
the funds to reopen the theatre. Consequentially, the the­
atre languished. Then, in 2014, with a new mayor for 
the first time in twenty years, the city approached com­
mercial real estate investor Keith Mahler to start working 
on the project. 

The impetus came partly from Matthew Nemerson, 



**College Street's Makeover**
**Author: Nate Steinberg**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
MARCH 2015
7
New Haven’s director of economic development. “Our 
first question when something is empty is: ‘What are the 
steps necessary for getting it back to life?’” he said. 
Mahler, who also works as a concert promoter, con­
vinced Elissa Getto to move to New Haven from Stam­
ford to direct the NHCPA. The nonprofit’s director since 
last May, she has experience at the helm of struggling 
arts organizations: her previous position had been at the 
Stamford Center for Performing Arts, which she had 
helped rescue from bankruptcy. 
The city chose not to allot any funds for the project. 
Instead, Mahler made a significant private investment 
and will be the theatre’s promoter. He is working with 
the NHCPA to run the project. 
“It is unusual for theatres to undergo drastic change 
without city or state funding,” said Getto, but her team is 
determined to pull it off by taking a new approach. “Just 
because we are a nonprofit doesn’t mean we don’t act 
like a business,” she explains. The College Street Music 
Hall project is part of a new trend in of urban devel­
opment: collaboration between nonprofit organizations 
and private companies. Aside from the Capitol Theatre in 
Port Chester, New York, the College Street Music Hall is 
the only regional concert venue developed in this kind 
of partnership. 
With 2,000 seats, the College Street Music Hall is 
already attracting the talent it needs. On May 1, The Ma­
chine will perform the music of Pink Floyd along with 
the Hartford Symphony Orchestra. A ten-day film festi­
val is in the works, as is a “Count Up to 400” extrava­
ganza—the first annual celebration anticipating the city’s 
four-hundredth birthday in 2038, which will include a 
number of concerts. 
The hope is that the shows that are planned for the 
College Street Music Hall will attract Elm City locals, 
suburbanites, and students from the University of New 
Haven, Yale, and Gateway Community College. With 
plans underway to find a replacement for the recently 
closed Anchor Bar, and a renovation scheduled for the 
Schubert, College Street is decidedly in the midst of a 
makeover, even if the comparison to Times Square might 
seem ambitious.
“Ever since the original nine-square grid, New Hav­
en has been a city designed for culture,” said Wolf. If you 
ask him if the new College Street is focused on restoring 
faded glory, he will correct you: “Not restoring history, 
reimagining history.”
Nate Steinberg is a sophomore 
in Timothy Dwight College.


**paint the streets**
**Author: Jillian Kravatz**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

New Haven finds simple solutions to unfriendly roads
by Jillian Kravatz
O
n the morning of Sunday, May 1, 2011, residents 
of the Audubon district awoke to find  a bold new 
crosswalk at the intersection of Whitney Avenue and 
Audubon Street. Spray-painted and slightly crooked, 
the rogue act made headlines around town. Opinions 
differed—officials said the sight lines weren’t clear 
enough for a crosswalk, business owners liked that it 
made it easier for people to get to their stores, and 
some just thought it looked a little funny. Useful or 
not, the crosswalk was illegal and officials had the 
paint removed two days later. The impromptu mark­
ings made a point, however: the intersection was dan­
gerous. The city needed to rethink its streets.

Following the deaths of two young pedestrians in 
New Haven in the spring of 2008, residents, elected 
officials, and local organizations established the Safe 
Streets Coalition. The group was formed to advocate 
for streets that are “livable, walkable, bikeable, eco­
nomically viable, environmentally sound, and safe 
for residents of all ages and abilities,” according to 


its website. The coalition launched the Connecticut 
Livable Streets Campaign, which began to lobby for 
local and statewide “complete streets” legislation. By 
July 2009, the legislation, which encourages engi­
neers to implement “traffic calming measures” and 
make “walkability” a priority, had passed in both New 
Haven and the state capital. That year, an education 
campaign called “Street Smarts” launched, inform­
ing Connecticut residents about the safe use of streets. 
It included advice on how to be visible to drivers at 
night and cautioned against dangerous behavior like 
jaywalking. A year later, a small group of New Haven 
engineers created a design manual to help other cit­
ies comply with “complete streets” policies. (The state 
has committed to finishing its own manual by 2017.) 
Still, according to the 2012 DataHaven Community 
Wellbeing Survey, forty-one percent of New Haven 
residents say that their neighborhood is unsafe for bi­
cycling, and nineteen percent say that there are no safe 
sidewalks or crosswalks.   

In response to these safety concerns, a new kind of 
urban planning—the “complete streets” movement—
is underway in New Haven and across the country. The 
idea behind complete streets is simple: roads should 
be built for their users. All of their users, not just driv­
ers. It’s particularly important in a compact urban 
community like New Haven. Mark Abraham, execu­
tive director of DataHaven, reports that nearly thirteen 
percent of workers, around 7,500 residents, say they 
walk to work every day. Roughly three percent, or 
1,500 workers, make their daily commute by bicycle. 
Yet most streets are only designed with the needs of 
drivers in mind, because, despite the new 2009 leg­
islation, state laws generally require that roads maxi­
mize the efficiency of auto traffic. Until recently, the 
Connecticut Department of Transportation was called 
the Connecticut Department of Highways, and many 
advocates still find that it overemphasizes the role of 
automobiles in transportation.

 “You should be designing for the street you want. 
That’s not how most engineering is done,” said Doug 
Hausladen, New Haven’s current director of trans­
portation, traffic, and parking. When Hausladen was 
appointed to the position in 2013, he realized that 
the number of complete streets project proposals sub­
mitted far outpaced his office’s ability to carry them 
out. The proposals, which detail community mem­
bers’ concerns and their proposed solutions, reflect 
the desire for improved streets throughout New Ha­
ven. But Hausladen could only implement about one 


project per year, given budget and time constraints. 
One of the first of these projects was a new cross­
walk across Whitney at the site of the rogue crosswalk. 
Now, the site is decked out with pedestrian-activated 
LED lights that flash to alert drivers when a pedestrian 
is crossing. Curb extensions at the crosswalk shorten 
the width of the street by sixteen feet to make cross­
ing easier for pedestrians, and a speed table—like an 
extended speed bump—forces drivers to slow down 
as they approach the crosswalk. Because of the inter­
section’s layout, the project was complex and costly. It 
took nearly a year, and required a $150,000 subsidy 
from Yale. Its total cost was approximately $320,000. 

But the city doesn’t have enough money to 
spend over a quarter-million dollars per intersection. 
Now, three years after the spray paint was scrubbed 
from Whitney Avenue, Hausladen and City Engineer 
Giovanni Zinn have a more cost-effective plan for re­
thinking the streets of New Haven. It’s called “Com­
plete Streets 2.0,” and it aims to find solutions that are 
inexpensive and easy to implement—solutions that 
actually look a lot more like the spray-painted cross­
walk than the high-tech system of strobe lights and 
other modifications that exists there today.

“This is Mayor Harp and all the complete streets 
activists finally realizing the promise that we made in 
the 2009 legislation,” Hausladen said. The first Com­
plete Streets 2.0 project—a re-design of Edgewood Av­
enue—was announced in November. It is set to reach 
completion in May 2015 at a cost of only $80,000. 
The design reengineers a 2.1-mile stretch of Edge­
wood to accommodate not only automobile traffic, 
but also bicyclists and pedestrians. “We are not afraid 
to rethink the entire space of the roadway,” Hausladen 
said. “Every inch of the roadway is valuable, and we 
can find a way to use it effectively and safely.” 
By using inexpensive materials like paint, delin­
eator tubes, and traffic bollards, Complete Streets 2.0 
aims to increase the number of completed projects to 
at least ten per year, giving community members the 
results they want more quickly. “Granite curb costs 
me forty dollars a foot to install,” explained City Engi­
neer Giovanni Zinn. “A six-inch white line only costs 
me forty cents a foot. I can replace that line many, 
many times before it even gets close to costing what 
a curb would, and we can keep tweaking it until we 
find the best solution,” he added. Complete Streets 2.0 
is unique in its ability to implement projects quickly 
and allow them to “fail fast” if they are ineffective. 
“It leaves room for mistakes, because none of us have 
all of the answers,” said Liam Brennan, a community 
activist and a member of Elm City Cycling, a local 
advocacy group.

But the proposed changes can seem dubious to 
those unfamiliar with the complete streets philoso­
phy. “People understand the low-dollar stuff, but they 
are still a little nervous about me removing a travel 
lane,” Hausladen said, referring to the plans for Edge­
wood Avenue, which will convert a traffic lane into a 
bike lane. “Some of the logic can be counterintuitive,” 
Brenan said. “People might think that wider streets 
means safer streets because no one has explained the 
studies that show that a narrower street causes cars to 
drive slower, which ends up being a safer environ­
ment overall.” And by making it easier for people to 
walk and bicycle, complete streets provide alternatives 
to driving a car, therefore reducing pollution.

Educating the community about complete streets 
is an ongoing challenge for Hausladen and his team. 
Hausladen has a far-reaching idea of what these streets 
can do. According to him, complete streets are the 
right move, not merely because they make cities safer 
and reduce their environmental impact, but because 
complete streets help create a city that is simply a bet­
ter place to live—a vibrant city filled with ideas, ac­
tivities, and thriving businesses. “Community needs 
more humans interacting day to day. Good ideas come 
from conversations,” Hausladen said, explaining that 
people do not have those opportunities for interaction 
in a “carbon community” where everyone is com­
muting in individual cars, cut off from one another.  
Advances in car technology make it increasingly 
easy to travel by vehicle, but the ease comes at a price 
of busier streets and more disconnected city life. It 
turns out the amateur urban planners on Whitney Av­
enue were onto something: sometimes the solution 
to congested streets and dangerous crosswalks can be 
as simple as some white paint. Local voices are calling 
out for better design, but the state’s policies lag be­
hind. Still, Hausladen finds the recent improvements 
to New Haven’s streets encouraging.

“No matter how much amazing transportation 
we have in the future,” he said, “people are still going 
to want to have a more pleasant experience crossing 
the street.”  
Jillian Kravatz is a sophomore 
in Branford College.



**Title: A Connecticut Tribe Seeks Land, Rights, and Unity**
**Author: Maya Averbuch**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Schaghticoke tribe is praying for the 
long-lost bones of its ancestors. Standing 
on the Connecticut reservation their fami­
lies once called home, members clasp one 
another’s cold hands. They turn their backs 
on the neighboring town of Kent and on the 
massive vans parked like sleeping giants 
on the other end of the plateau. They wait 
outside the wooden fence of the reserva­
tion’s small cemetery, bordered by spindly 
birch trees and the Housatonic River. It is 
early November, and they have gathered 
from across the state to clear away the 
autumn’s fallen leaves and to pay their re­
spects to the departed.


“We are putting our ancestors back in the ground, 
where they should be, and back on the reservation,” 
says Ed Sarabia, a member of another Native American 
tribe who has come to officiate the ceremony. Dressed 
in a plaid shirt and jeans, he crosses the circle to pick 
up a can of American Spirit tobacco and a blue, gun-
shaped lighter. He tells those present to forget about 
their unfinished work and their unpaid bills for the 
moment. As part of the purification ritual, called a 
“smudge,” he raises a flame to a braid of dried sweet 
grass and recites a blessing. Two other tribal mem­
bers make their way around the circle in silence, trac­
ing a ring around each participant with the burning 
braid. It dips from head to shins, and then rises again, 
smoking faintly.  
As they enter the cemetery, each participant 
pinches tobacco from the large can and scatters it 
in the freshly dug hole in the corner of the burial 
ground. Beside it sits a shallow, white box filled with 
bones. Nick Bellantoni, the former state archaeologist 
who brought the bones to the reservation today, de­
clares that they are, without a doubt, of Native Ameri­


American origin. Several years ago, archeologists unearthed 
the seventeenth-century bone fragments in Fort Hill, 
outside of New Milford. Though the bones may have 
come from one of the related tribes that lived in the 
area centuries ago, Sarabia takes the opportunity to 
focus on the spiritual Creator. It is a time to celebrate 
commonality, rather than difference. 
For the Schaghticoke, returning to the land is a 
fraught subject, and proving ancestry is even more 
contentious. Though Connecticut has recognized their 
tribe since 1736, they have spent the last few decades 
trying to get the U.S. Department of the Interior to 
make the same determination. Joining the roster of 
566 federally acknowledged tribes would come with 
far-ranging benefits. It would give the tribe the sta­
tus of a sovereign nation, and guarantee its mem­
bers funding and services for education, healthcare, 
housing, law enforcement, and resource protection 
through the DOI’s Bureau of Indian Affairs. It would 
also help the Schaghticoke reclaim much of their res­
ervation land. According to the tribe, the approxi­
mately 2,500-acre reservation has shrunk to four 
hundred acres, since state-appointed overseers sold 
off much of the land to cover Schaghticoke debts. But 
the land claims stand little chance in court without 
federal recognition. 
In order to gain United States’ stamp of approv­
al, the tribe must demonstrate that it has been a dis­
tinct community governed by a political authority 
since what the Bureau of Indian Affairs calls “historic 
times,” starting as early as 1789. Despite the work 
of researchers, anthropologists, genealogists, and 
attorneys, corroborating the tribe’s continuous ex­
istence has been a costly, decades-long process. The 
tribe’s massive collection of court files, meeting re­
cords, land sales, marriage certificates, and other doc­
umentation has helped it almost reach its goal, but 
according to the DOI, significant gaps remain in the 
historical record. 
For a brief, promising moment in 2004, the 
U.S. government granted the Schaghticoke the cov­
eted federal status. The seemingly endless process the 
tribe started when it filed a letter of intent to the BIA 
in 1981 had finally come to a close. But Connecti­
cut politicians, led by then-Attorney General Richard 
Blumenthal, placed their support behind the town of 
Kent and other landowners around the reservation 
who were opposed to the tribe earning federal recog­
nition. Connecticut, the affluent Kent School, the local 
power utility, and a dozen towns and cities requested 
that the DOI reconsider the evidence. By 2005, the 
department issued a Reconsidered Final Determina­
tion. The Schaghticoke became one of the only tribes 
in history to be stripped of its federal status through 
an overturned decision. 
“That’s the oddity of being native,” says Sarabia, 
the spiritual leader, after the ceremony. “Why do we 
have to prove who we are in our own country?”
M
ost people have left the reservation, and the 
tribe has splintered, preventing it from show­
ing a unified front. The two groups—the Schaghticoke 
Tribal Nation (STN) and the smaller Schaghticoke In­
dian Tribe (SIT)—are engaged in a bitter dispute over 
leadership. But the fight for recognition continues. 
The STN, which lost its federal status in 2005, has 
renewed hopes: in 2013, the DOI proposed making 
the acknowledgement requirements far less stringent. 
The SIT—which pushed the DOI to reconsider its ap­
proval of the STN—aims to complete its own petition 
for recognition. But a previously rejected tribe has 
little chance of emerging victorious, even if its two 
halves agree that they deserve more than just a rocky 
patch wedged between the state border and a town 
that doesn’t want them. As the opposing Schaghticoke 
chiefs challenge each other’s legitimacy, they play into 
the hands of lawmakers who say their community has 
fallen apart. 



**Title: The Schaghticoke Struggle for Federal Recognition**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
MARCH 2015
13
Ruth Garby Torres, a Schaghticoke historian, says 
that the tribe is partly responsible for its current con­
dition. She critiques both tribal groups for foregoing 
reconciliation. “We’ve been victimized by a process, 
but there’s blame to be shared within the tribe,” she 
says. “There’s failure, or an inability, or both, to figure 
out how to move forward and still disagree.” 


The office of Richard Velky, chief of the Schagh­
ticoke Tribal Nation, is packed with the paper trail of 
more than a quarter century of legal battles. Tall black 
file cabinets sit next to shelves filled with fat binders. A 
dream catcher with a decorative snake coiled around 
it hangs on the wall. Towers of cardboard boxes with 
scrawled red labels lean against one another between 
the plastic potted pants. In the largest room of the 
Derby office, the curtains are drawn and the ceiling 
is unfinished, giving it the air of a forgotten attic. As I 
glance at Velky’s desk, I find a glossy flyer for the Cali­
fornia Gaming Summit next to a Coca-Cola bottle and 
a mug with a Native American wearing a headdress.


“Inside these walls here, we have over 45,000 
pages to prove our heritage,” says Velky, a portly man 
with receding white hair. He points to a stack of giant 
Rubbermaid tubs, one of an estimated hundred in the 
office. The BIA’s regulations have forced tribal mem­
bers to become hyper-specific about their heritage, so 
the tribal office has started to look like the home of a 
hoarder. Velky calmly describes the countless letters he 
has written and reports he has filed. Only on occasion 
does he slip into the tone of a boxer who has taken a 
few too many punches. 


The current process of tribal recognition was 
created in 1978; prior to that, groups were declared 
tribes by acts of Congress. However, the process is no­
toriously slow, as both the tribes and the BIA are often 
disorganized. The Schaghticoke filed a letter of intent 
to petition in 1981, but they didn’t complete their pe­
tition for another thirteen years. They lagged behind 
two other Connecticut tribes, the Mohegans and the 
Mashantucket PequWWots, who each opened their 
own enormous casinos after winning federal recog­
nition. Until two years ago, the Foxwood Resort Ca­
sino, owned by the Pequot, was the largest casino in 
the U.S.


Casinos, with their glitzy, seedy vibe, are glorified 
in Vegas movies and vilified in debates about moral 
towns. They complicate the BIA’s already convoluted 
processes. In 1988, Congress passed the Indian Gam­
ing Regulatory Act, granting tribes special gaming 
rights. The number of petitions skyrocketed as tribes 
seized the opportunity for economic growth. In Con­
necticut, federally recognized tribes are the only 
groups permitted to own casinos, and Velky considers 
the state government’s fear of additional casinos to be 
the primary cause of its opposition to the Schaghti­
coke. He insists that he is not pressing for recognition 
exclusively because of gaming rights, but he would 
consider opening a casino outside of the current 
reservation land.


Yet casinos attract more than tourists. Steven Aus­
tin, who worked as an anthropologist for the STN, 
spelled out the politicians’ fears. “The casinos bring 
in corruption, problems with prostitution and drugs, 
and other evils,” he says. The state’s concerns extend 
beyond gaming, to tribes’ potentially far-reaching 
land claims, and their exemption from state and local 
property regulations. Though a quarter out of every 
dollar played at the Mohegan Sun or Foxwoods Re­
sort Casino, excluding gamblers’ final winnings, goes 
to the state in lieu of taxes, the economic calculation 
doesn’t necessarily work out in the state’s favor. Tribal 
recognition confers the right to additional expen­
sive social services. It also makes cuts into the state’s 
tax base.


But the grounds for the Reconsidered Final Deter­
mination have to do with something far more techni­
cal: historical gaps in the tribe’s extensive documenta­
tion. According to Velky, the problem arises from the 
fact that community leaders kept poor records in both 
the 1800s and 1900s. The fact that a state reservation 
existed bolstered the Schaghticoke’s original case, but 
Connecticut politicians protested against using state 
recognition as a marker of community, leading to the 
DOI’s painful revision. 


“THAT’S THE ODDITY OF 
BEING NATIVE,” SAYS 
SARABIA, THE SPIRITUAL 
LEADER, AFTER THE 
CEREMONY. “WHY DO WE 
HAVE TO PROVE WHO WE 
ARE IN OUR OWN COUNTRY?”


--- Page 14 ---

THE NEW JOURNAL
14
Velky still remembers camping on the reserva­
tion with other tribal members to tend a spiritual fire 
in the two weeks before the DOI’s 2005 decision. It 
was Columbus Day when they received news of the 
Reconsidered Final Determination, which invalidated 
their federal status. Finality had come and gone, and a 
torrential rain started to fall. “That was our ancestors 
talking aloud, saying that they were upset,” he says. 


Research and litigation have cost the tribe an 
estimated $20 million, much of which came from 
Subway founder Frederick A. DeLuca, who may have 
expected a cut of eventual casino profits. “The only 
way we can pay investors back is through gaming,” 
Velky explains. (The Director of Corporate Commu­
nications for Subway said DeLuca was unable to com­
ment).


DeLuca cut off his financial support after the tribe 
lost its recognition, so Velky is left to collect money 
from other private investors, hoping they can stretch 
funds far enough. Even now that the research pro­
cess is complete, he must pay a few hundred dollars 
each month to keep his office, located above a hair 
salon and a chiropractor, with a view overlooking a 
parking lot. 


The chief insists that where he really belongs is 
on the reservation: “If you go out this way, you see 
the first house. My grandfather was born in that house 
in 1903,” Velky explains on the day of the ceremony, 
gesturing at a boarded-up brown house with white-
trimmed windows. The government made it difficult 
to for tribal members to return after they first moved 
away. According to Velky, overseers from the state wel­
fare department denied his grandfather permission to 
return to the land in the 1950s. In the 1960s, he says, 
Kent firemen used some of the tribal houses for train­
ing drills, igniting some of the recently abandoned 
homes and preventing them from being passed on to 
younger generations of Schaghticoke. 


The tribe has become increasingly diffuse far 
from the land. Prior to a wedding in 2011, it had 
been 114 years since there had been a marriage be­
tween two Schaghticoke members. But over a de­
cade ago, when Velky last surveyed the Schaghticoke, 
eighty families said they would return to the land if 
given the change. He believes they the rest, like him, 
have held onto that dream. 


W
e enter an adjoining room in the office, where a 
walking stick adorned with antlers and pheas­
ant feathers lies nestled behind a large paper shred­
der. The abandoned fax machine and black-and-white 
images of traditionally dressed Native Americans are 
a reminder of what the recognition process has be­
come. It is a fierce assertion of identity that relies 
upon endless clerical work. Yet Velky is determined 
to carry on. “Our people have been in every war for 
the people that are in the United States,” he tells me 
with pride and a hint of rancor. “We have fought dil­
igently for our people and our rights, and we have 
been neglected.” 


Alan Russell, the leader of SIT, is the tribal mem­
ber who knows best what it means to call the land 
home. He is one of a handful of Schaghticoke who still 
live on the reservation. His newly rebuilt house sits up 
the road from the clearing where Velky’s people park 
their cars during the annual fall cleanup, which he 
does not attend. Velky and Russell do not speak to one 
another. Both claim to be the properly elected Schagh­
ticoke chief; both claim that the other has essentially 
forged the names on his membership rolls to make 
them look more legitimate. 


When I meet Russell on his property in Novem­
ber, behind the sign “BEWARE OF DOG,” he alleges 
that Velky is a fraud, one who has forced himself 
into the role of chief, and who has made headlines 
only because of his shady financial supporters. Rus­
sell, in the meantime, is still trying to muster up the 
money required to complete his petition for federal 
recognition. According to Bill Buchanan, a construc­
tion worker who has been the SIT’s primary consul­
tant over the past decade, the petition will be com­
pleted this year. He himself is not Schaghticoke—he 
has no Native American heritage whatsoever—but he 
strangely points out that he is a relative of William 
Boyd, the actor who played the famed cowboy Ho­
palong Cassidy. “It’s kind of a modern-day cowboy-
and-Indian event,” he adds, as though he could revise 
America’s history by stepping into the spurred boots 
of a cowboy hero.      


The 67-year-old Russell leans on a rake as he tells 
me his goals are more modest than Velky’s. A trading 
post, medical benefits, and educational scholarships 
would be nice for his people. But the real reason he 
is considering filing for federal recognition is because 
he fears that Velky would attempt to throw him off the 
land. “If he ever tried that, he’d be a dead man,” Rus­


--- Page 15 ---

15
sell says. Though his family lived in New Haven for a 
few years after Russell’s father enlisted in World War 
II, they moved back to the land when Russell was only 
four years old. There is a video, he tells me, of him 
taking his first footsteps next to the wooden sign that 
says “Schaghticoke Indian Reservation.” 


The Schaghticoke, like the officials who have 
combed through their family records, are mired in 
a genealogical argument, as they note and scrutinize 
every happy marriage and every sour divorce. Rus­
sell states that he and Velky are distant cousins—they 
share a white great-grandmother—but Russell is de­
scended from her first marriage, with Schaghticoke 
Jim-Pan Harris, while “Velky is the product of a white 
man.” Though the BIA ruled that Velky has provided 
adequate proof of his ancestry, the SIT will not relent. 


Buchanan claims that, earlier this year, Velky’s nephew 
submitted his saliva to ancestry.com to find out if he 
is Native American. It was Buchanan’s suggestion that 
he use the genealogy site, but the relative never sent 
him the results.  


Both parties accuse each other of foul play. Velky 
suspects that Russell burned down the central pavil­
ion on the reservation and pulled out the crosses from 
Velky’s relatives’ graves. Russell claims that Velky ha­
rassed Russell’s dying mother and threatened his wife 
with a knife. “They play dirty, you know what I’m 
saying?” Russell asks me. I struggle to reconcile his 
claims with my memory of the man who offered me 
a warm handshake just a few hours before, and whose 
grandkids played games by the campfire.


STN membership remains at around 300 while 
SIT’s formal membership hovers closer to 125. Bu­
chanan, Russell’s consultant, insists that Velky copied 
the names of SIT members onto the STN’s member­
ship list and pretended that there had been some sort 
of reconciliation between the two groups to get fed­
eral recognition. What the Reconsidered Final Deter­
mination actually says is that there were a significant 
number of people who declined to enroll in the STN, 
which means that the STN is not representative of the 
entire Schaghticoke community. The document indi­


A TRIBAL MEMBER HOLDS THE CEREMONIAL SWEETGRASS AS OITHERS FILL IN A GRAVE.



**Title: BUT THE REAL REASON HE IS CONSIDERING FILING FOR FEDERAL RECOGNITION IS BECAUSE HE FEARS THAT VELKY WOULD ATTEMPT TO THROW HIM OFF THE LAND. “IF HE EVER TRIED THAT, HE’D BE A DEAD MAN,” RUSSELL SAYS.**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
cates that an SIT petition will be considered when it 
is submitted.
Buchanan states that Russell has 4,000 documents 
in his house that could address the gaps in the STN’s 
records. It’s a dubious claim, given that SIT lacked the 
millions their opponents spent to unearth all of the 
relevant paperwork, but he could be right, if tribal 
members withheld their personal records until now. 
Until the petition is complete, it remains to be seen 
what the BIA will say. “When we get approved, all 
hell’s going to break through,” Buchanan says, with­
out a doubt that the SIT will succeed. 


Regardless of whether or not Russell has grounds 
for a new petition, his complaints show just how 
high-stakes the fight for reservation land has be­
come. As reservations have become more restricted, 
the chief’s role in defending the land and the tribe 
becomes increasingly politicized. The disagreements 
over land affect the healthcare, schooling, and em­
ployment prospects of hundreds of people, to say 
nothing of their cultural identity and ancestral land.
“I don’t care about federal recognition. I really 
don’t. I just want to live here peacefully,” Russell says 
earnestly. But in the legal web spun around native land 
rights, there are many more factors at play. As matters 
of sovereignty become fixed into the law, one man’s 
desire to stay in his house becomes a problem far be­
yond the bounds of his gateposts.
The town of Kent has one traffic light and a popu­
lation of about 3,000. Bruce Adams, who leads the 
town’s Board of Selectmen, looks out from the sec­
ond floor of the Kent Town Hall. There are a handful 
of parked cars and a shopping center that has seen 
better days, but the town has remained as quaint as 
when he moved there in the 1970s. One of its major 
tourist attractions is still the nineteenth-century Bull’s 
Bridge, one of the only covered wooden bridges in 
Connecticut. “If a casino were built in this town, it 
would change this town forever,” Adams says.
The tribal members have explicitly stated that, if 
they received federal recognition, they would be more 
interested in building gaming facilities in other parts 
of the state, near larger cities that would bring cus­
tomers. Adams doubts the Schaghticoke would build a 
casino in Kent, but the possibility that they would do 
so is enough to set him on edge. He fears the changes 
he has seen in the towns around Connecticut’s exist­
ing gaming centers: traffic, overcrowding, construc­
tion. Even if the tribe just opened a bingo facility 
or to started to sell tax-free cigarettes and liquor, he 
worries that they would compromise the town’s New 
England feel. 


As a local social studies teacher for over thirty 
years, he has taught children from both Kent and the 
Schaghticoke reservation. Still, Adams speculates that 
if the tribe were to win all of its land claims, it could 
hypothetically force the closure of the Kent School, 
the prestigious boarding school founded in 1906. The 
Schaghticoke could also tear down the town’s sew­
age treatment plant, which would cost $9 million to 
replace. Velky calls Adams’s statements “fear-monger­
ing” unfounded in fact. But reflecting on the relation­
ship between the town and the tribe, Adams says, “It’s 
become antagonistic for one reason, and one reason 
only: money.” 


The state of Connecticut takes Adams’s side in the 
debate over federal recognition. The proposal by the 
BIA to streamline the federal recognition process pos­
es a new threat. The published draft states that third 
parties would be able to veto petitions from tribes 
that were formerly denied recognition, which would 
give the state the right to intervene. But no one knows 
whether the regulations will be passed in their cur­
rent form. After a series of public hearings last sum­
mer, the tentative plan is still under consideration. 
According to the BIA, only seventeen of the 566 
federally recognized tribes have made it through the 
current BIA process under the current regulations 
since 1978. Most of the others had been approved by 
Congressional actions. The new rules would require 
the tribe to demonstrate that they have maintained a 
community with an active political body since 1934, 
as opposed to “historic times.” This would drastically 
reduce the amount of paperwork, legal maneuvering, 
and funding required, especially if the existence of 
state reservations is considered sufficient proof. Since 
July 2014, close to 3,000 people submitted testimony 
about whether the BIA should approve the proposal. 
Led by Connecticut Senator Richard Blumenthal, all of 
the state’s Congressional representatives wrote a let­
ter in opposition to the more lenient requirements. 
Governor Dannel P. Malloy wrote his own letter, stat­
ing that, for Connecticut, “the consequence would 
be devastating.” 


“When does no mean no? What gives anyone the 
right to lighten the rules?” Adams asks. He coaches 
after-school sports, and he likens the situation to an 
athletic competition: “Remember that game you lost 
back in 2001? We’re changing the rules, and we’re 
going to give you another try at winning the game.” 
Or, in the bleak words he recounts from one of his at­
torneys, “It’s a little bit like Whack-A-Mole.” Whenev­
er Kent seems to finally be safe, the tribe pops back up. 
Adams rejects the notion that communities who 
have been so thoroughly disenfranchised for centuries 
deserve reparations: he believes that the time for that 
has passed. The Oneida Nation lost a land rights case in 
Sherrill County, New York, several years ago, because 
the judge ruled that the land had been under different 
ownership for too many years. And Adams states that 
the same must be true when looking at what is owed 
to the Native Americans in Connecticut. The town has 
already spent $400,000 to fight the Schaghticoke over 
the last fifteen years, partly through a group called 
Town Action to Save Kent (TASK). 


“There’s no question that wrongs were done to 
Native Americans way back when,” he says. “But I 
think we’ve gone too far the other way in trying to 
make things right.” 


**Title: MEMBERS OF THE SCHAGHTICOKE TRIBE POSE IN FRONT OF THE CAMPFIRE ON THEIR RESERVATION. STN CHIEF RICHARD VELKY SITS IN THE CHAIR ON THE LEFT.**
**Page number(s): 17**


**Title: The Schaghticoke Tribal Dispute**
**Author: Maya Averbuch**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
MARCH 2015
19
cerns about the Schaghticoke’s claim have has always 
existed. “It’s a long, drawn-out affair,” he says at the 
end of the presentation of arguments. 

The representatives of the defendants stand out­
side the courtroom congratulating one another for a 
job well done, and Velky walks past them without a 
word as he makes his way to the exit. Elliott insists 
that once the STN loses this case, its land claim is over. 
But of course, as rules shift, the matter is never so 
simple. “If the BIA enacts the proposed regulations, 
this tribe will go back to the BIA to be recognized and 
they will be recognized,” Schell tells me, matter-of-
factly. It is irrelevant to these defendants which of the 
chiefs triumphs; to them, Velky and Russell are on the 
same side of the problem. But for now, since the tribe 
has not met the standards for federal recognition, the 
defendants have won their case. 

I
n the fall, back on the Schaghticoke reservation, 
Bellantoni, the former state archeologist, is plac­
ing the bones into a gravesite. Kneeling over a hole 
dug in the corner of the cemetery, he pulls out fe­
murs, tibias, and smaller fragments from the white 
tissue in which they are wrapped. Prior to 1990, they 
would have likely been discarded, or simply covered 
up, since they were found on the site of what used to 
be a Native American fort. A sand and gravel company 
blew up the area in the early 1900s, Yale research­
ers excavated some of the remains in the 1930s and 
1940s, and another construction company brought a 
bulldozer to sift through the ground about a decade 
ago. Now, the location is being prepared for condo­
miniums, and Bellantoni has driven the remains 
across the state so they can settle into the ground on 
Schaghticoke territory. 

“We can’t know they are Schaghticoke, but they 
are of native descent,” says Velky. It has never been im­
portant to him and his tribe to prove the specifics of 
lineage—that is the concern of the politicians around 
them. “If they don’t end up here, they’re going to end 
up in some museum,” he adds. 

The Schaghticoke encircle the hole in the corner 
of the cemetery. One man brings clippings of fresh 
pine to lay in the grave, and Velky rubs sage from a 
Ziploc bag between his hands as he stands over the 
dirt pit. Bellantoni covers the bones with 4,000-year-
old flint spearheads that were found at the site and 
may have been funerary objects. A tribal member adds 
the rest of the tobacco at the end, and the men begin 
to cover it up with shovels. 

There will be no bulldozer coming to the Scha­
ghticoke cemetery, no matter what the U.S. govern­
ment decides. At the very least, the tribe’s members 
know that they have four hundred acres where they 
can continue to gather. They come on days like this to 
eat hamburgers around a campfire, or test their guns 
in preparation for deer-hunting season, or practice 
rituals that have been sacred for centuries. But people 
don’t lie quietly, like bones. They turn against one an­
other and speak angrily of how they have suffered. 
Maya Averbuch is a junior in 
Berkeley College. She is the managing 
editor of the New Journal.
ED SARABIA HOLDS A JAR OF AMERICAN SPIRIT 
TOBACCO AS HE LEADS THE BURIAL CEREMONY.


**Title: Everyday Evil**
**Author: Eric Boodman**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

THE NEW JOURNAL
20
Every-
day 
Evil
CAN A NEW NET­
WORK OF RADICAL 
VEGANS CHANGE 
THE MAINSTREAM 
LIBERAL AGENDA?


21
T
he funeral was supposed to 
begin at 7:30 p.m., but the 
mourners didn’t show up until 
closer to 8. They came dressed all 
in black except for their sneakers. 
None of them had been to this 
kind of funeral before, and they 
were nervous. “I haven’t memo­
rized my speech,” a young woman 
named Bianca told me. The pro­
cession was going to begin at the 
New Haven Green. Bianca shuffled 
around the flagpole, trying to get 
warm. With nightfall, the mist 
had turned to cold pinpricks of 
rain. Another woman asked what 
would happen if the funeral was 
interrupted by hecklers. 

“If we’re getting heckled, we 
stay focused, centered, serious,” 
said Zach Groff. He was officiat­
ing the funeral, and he spoke with 
the gravitas of a priest in the con­
fessional. “If we refuse to leave, 
they can say, ‘You’re trespassing, 
we’re going to have you arrested.’ 
Before they tell us to leave, it’s 
perfectly legal.”

The mourners had reason 
to be nervous. Their procession 
would take them through down­
town New Haven and into several 
restaurants. They would line up 
beside the tables, amid the din of 
clinking cutlery and conversation 
snatched between bites. They had 
no intention of eating. Quite the 
opposite: their mission was to eu­
logize the food. 

The funeral was organized by 
Direct Action Everywhere—DXE, 
as it is known—a newly formed 
animal rights network. While DXE 
opposes all animal cruelty, the pri­
mary target of its campaigns is the 
production and consumption of 
meat. It considers eating animals 
to be a serious act of violence. To 
get their point across, its mem­
SCREENSHOTS FROM DIRECT ACTION 
EVERYWHERE’S YOUTUBE CHANNEL



**Title: Direct Action Everywhere: A Funeral for Meat**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
bers stage “actions” in restaurants, 
shouting at the patrons, reminding 
them that they are eating corpses.  
For many, the image of animal 
rights activism involves wide-eyed 
ladies leafleting on the sidewalk. 
As Groff puts it, “Animal rights is 
a white country club activity, has 
been up until this point.” DXE’s 
leaders want to take the movement 
out of the hands of fuddy-duddies 
and give it a twenty-first century 
makeover. The network prides it­
self on its diversity: Groff points 
out that the national founders of 
DXE are Chinese American, Indian 
American, Chicano. Full of words 
like “normativity” and “intersec­
tionality,” their rhetoric has a cer­
tain intellectual hipness, and it is 
beginning to catch on. A year ago, 
Groff says, DXE consisted of eight 
people in San Francisco; now the 
group has approximately eighty 
chapters in twenty countries.


The community theater as­
pect of the funeral—replete with 
props, costumes, and lines to
—is not incidental to the move­
ment’s growth. The primary aim 
of DXE’s actions is not to convince 
enthusiastic steak eaters to give 
up meat. Instead, it is to forge a 
strong network of activists. Each 
action is the radical vegan equiva­
lent of an ice cream social: a way 
for the community, which does 
a lot of its organizing online, 
to meet in person and become 
friends. The public performance 
is meant to band vegans togeth­
er, to strengthen their resolve 
and prevent them from return­
ing to the vegetarian—or worse, 
omnivorous—fold. 


What makes for good bond­
ing can make for bizarre pro­
tests. At the funeral on October 
30, the mourners on the Green 
couldn’t decide how confronta­
tional they wanted to be. They 
would be shouting at restaurant-
goers, but they weren’t going to 
cause any harm. They wanted to 
be noticed, but they did not want 
to be arrested. When they walked 
to Groff’s Honda to get the cof­
fin—a four-foot-long box made 
of obsolete election signs that 
Groff had spray-painted black—
one of the pallbearers spoke up: 
“One note about the coffin. Could 
this be mistaken for some kind of 
explosive device?” 


Groff stopped in the middle of 
handing out fake flowers. “Good 
question,” he said. He stuck his 
nose into a purple bloom, think­
ing hard. “Good question,” he 
said again.


New Haven’s restaurant scene 
is nothing out of the or­
dinary: noodle shops, fast-food 
joints, and pizzerias alongside a 
smattering of more upscale, pro­
fessorial places. To the organizers 
of DXE, though, the banality with 
which we view these restaurants is 
a sign of our desensitization. The 
animals that will become meat are 
not slaughtered on-site, but in the 
activists’ eyes, the restaurants that 
cook and serve cows and chickens 
and pigs are nothing less than insti­
tutional accomplices to murder. The 
group’s language is unequivocal. As 
Zach Groff wrote to me in an email 
before the funeral procession, Chi­
potle and Buffalo Wild Wings are 
“places of violence.”


What the rest of us think of 
as animals, DXE refers to as “non-
human animals” and as “our breth­
ren.” In their literature, animals are 
assigned names and genders, per­
sonalities and biographies. When 
I asked one of the pallbearers in 
Connecticut why she gave up some 
of her favorite foods, such as pizza 
and ice cream, even though their 
creation didn’t entail any slaugh­
ter, her answer was very personal: 
“I wouldn’t want anyone to do that 
to me: forcibly impregnate me, take 
my babies away, and take my milk. 
I would feel extremely violated 
by that.”


When it comes to the capac­
ity to feel pain and joy and love, 


animals are no different from hu­
mans, according to DXE. Groff 
is convinced that animal rights 
can become the next progres­
sive movement, following in the 
tradition of civil rights and gay 
rights. Organizations like ACT UP 
used violent imagery and street art 
and disruptive actions to draw the 
world’s attention to the AIDS cri­
sis. Now, DXE wants to use those 
same tactics to draw attention to 
the horrors of the meat industry.


If the members of Connecticut 
DXE had been nervous before the 
funeral, it was nothing compared 
to what I felt. At about 6:45 p.m., 
I had gone into a state of frenzy. 
Nearly everything I was wearing 
was the product of either murder 
or theft. My sweaters were made 
of wool ripped from the bodies of 
poor bleating sheep. The sounds of 
pain involved in the production of 
my leather shoes are simply un­
printable. My subjects would take 
one look at me and know imme­
diately that I was a criminal. And 
who wants to give good quotes to 
a murderer? 


I borrowed a non-leather belt 
from a friend. It didn’t keep my 
pants up, but I figured that ex­
posing my rear end was better 
than exposing myself as an en­
emy to the cause. My only non-
leather shoes looked like they had 
emerged from the nightmares of 
Coco Chanel: fluorescent white-
and-blue jogging sneakers made 
of synthetic mesh. I slipped them 
on and laced them up. I didn’t have 
time to find a non-wool sweater, so 
I made a mental note not to unzip 
my jacket. I grabbed my notebook, 
and headed out for my first assign­
ment undercover. 


As I walked to meet the ac­
tivists, I had an uncomfortable 
realization. The funeral would be 
filmed and posted on YouTube. 
And even if no one I knew clicked 
on the videos, I would be traips­
ing around downtown New Ha­
ven in a procession that aimed to 
commemorate the lives and per­
sonalities of those creatures who’d 
been turned into meat—creatures 
that under almost any other cir­
cumstances, I would be happy to 
ingest. I might not have been a 
mourner myself, but in my black 
coat I sure looked like one.


Our first target was Buffalo 
Wild Wings. There were about 
fourteen of us, and as we walked in, 
a hostess in a bright yellow sports 
jersey said, “Hi, guys, welcome!” 
and flashed her most professional 
hostess smile. She didn’t seem to 
notice our somber faces, our fune­
real black, our signs, our flowers, 
or our coffin. We stood between 
tables, under huge TVs that yam­
mered with the sounds of foot­
ball games. Allan Brison, a former 
New Haven alder—whose beard 
and shining eyes make him look 
like DXE Connecticut’s resident 
druid—started off the proceedings 
by gesturing at the coffin. “Behind 
us is the body of someone, some­
one who was never named,” he 
intoned, “who only wanted safety 
and love, but only knew suffering 
and violence.” His voice quavered, 
barely audible over the music and 
the sports games. Still, the restau­
rant’s manager appeared almost 
immediately, touching Brison on 
the elbow and whispering in his 
ear. Brison headed for the door. 
As planned, Groff began to shout, 
with the rest of the mourners re­
sponding in unison. 


“Their bodies!” 
“Not ours!”
“Their milk!”
“Their lives!


As Groff himself made his 
way to the door, one of the diners 
shouted after him, “They’re deli­
cious,” and began to snicker. 
“You 
laugh, 
they 
die,” 
Groff said. 


Out on the sidewalk, every­
one agreed that as actions go, the 
one they had just staged was weak. 
Everything needed to be louder,


the speakers more sure of them­
selves. Groff would take over the 
opening speech—his booming 
baritone would carry better than 
Brison’s voice. 


The next stop was Chipotle. In 
DXE’s view, Chipotle is the worst 
of the worst, the most cunning 
of enemies. The irony is that Chi­
potle’s website is not so different 
from DXE’s. Both disparage factory 
farms, and both claim to be fixing 
the problem. The burrito chain’s 
solution is to source meat differ­
ently. According to their website, 
one hundred percent of their pork 
comes from pigs “raised outside, 
or in deeply bedded pens,” where 
they can wander and dig with their 
snouts, with no antibiotics and a 
vegetarian diet. Other pages claim 
that the company has been success­
ful in promoting “naturally raised” 
cattle, and it chooses poultry farm­
ers who go beyond the FDA re­
quirements. Their menu even has 
vegan options.


But DXE activists say that Chi­
potle’s website is full of lies—
“humane-washing,” 
in 
Groff’s 
words—and that its revenue is 
“blood money.” They see Chipo­
tle’s attempt to provide “naturally 
raised” meat as yet another in­
stance of the corporate machine 
masking its misdeeds in order to 
turn a profit, like a fossil fuel exec­
utive teaching schoolchildren how 
to recycle. 


Tonight, New Haven’s Chipo­
tle had a surprise on the menu: a 
funeral. It was just as short lived 
as the funeral had been in Buffalo 
Wild Wings, but Chipotle fran­
chises have an antiseptic design, 
and the bright lights and quieter 
music made the activists more no­
ticeable. As Groff began to chant, 
patrons pulled out iPhones and 



**Title: Direct Action Everywhere: A New Kind of Animal Rights Activism**
**Author: Eric Boodman**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
MARCH 2015
25
litical activism. In the 1960s, you 
could find him facing off with 
the police in Civil Rights protests 
(and, on two occasions, locked up 
in a Houston jail cell). Fast forward 
half a century, and Brison was still 
at it, out-campaigning a well-es­
tablished Democrat in 2008 to be­
come one of the only Green Party 
representatives ever to sit on the 
New Haven Board of Alders. And he 
remains an enthusiastic protester: 
the People’s Climate March, Black 
Lives Matter demonstrations—you 
name it, Brison is there.

But he hadn’t made the con­
nection between his diet and his 
activism until he met Zach Groff. 
While many of the members were 
already active in the animal rights 
movement, it was Groff’s organiz­
ing and fiery emails that brought 
DXE Connecticut together. 

As a leader of a protest move­
ment, Groff is unusual. He is low-
key, and he does not go in for the 
kind of oversimplification that 
makes for good political rhetoric. 
He graduated from Yale in 2013 
and now works for a New Haven 
nonprofit that tackles global pover­
ty alleviation. He knows that DXE 
can seem like a crazy fringe group, 
and, when I visited his apartment, 
he was quick to assure me that 
animal activism had nothing to do 
with his day job.  

I had once again donned my 
vegan get-up—my pants fall­
ing off, my shoes a-glitter—but I 
needn’t have worried about Groff 
going on a fire-and-brimstone ti­
rade against leather or wool. “Now 
that I scream in restaurants, the la­
bel ‘angry vegan’ is appropriate,” 
Groff conceded. “But in my per­
sonal encounters I’m a lot more 
soft-spoken. I’m quite shocked 
that I’m doing this.” And it turns 
out that neither leather nor wool is 
part of DXE’s campaign. 

Groff speaks the way you 
would imagine a Yale grad might: 
a mile a minute, every sentence 
packed with quotes and statistics 
and subtle distinctions. He men­
tions so many philosophers, econ­
omists, and fellow activists that it 
is hard to keep track of his verbal 
footnotes. He identifies himself 
with a philosophical movement 
called effective altruism. “It’s all 
these nerdy people who are also 
bleeding hearts, who want to fig­
ure out how to do good,” he said. 
Their tool is rationality, and more 
specifically, utilitarian argument.

Past animal rights campaigns 
have focused on fur and animal 
testing. But the number of animals 
who suffer to make coats and phar­
maceuticals is tiny when compared 
to the number of animals slaugh­
tered for food. I asked about the 
buzzwords we hear all the time: 
local, humane, free range, grain 
fed. “It’s not going to be possible 
for us to have a society where we 
raise animals decently in order 
to kill them to put them on our 
plates,” he said. 

Groff may describe himself as 
rational and soft-spoken, but our 
interview happened to fall on elec­
tion night, and I could see the po­
litical firebrand emerge every time 
he turned to the coverage being 
streamed from his computer onto 
the TV in his living room. When 
Chris Christie appeared, Groff 
snarled: “He’s totally fine vetoing 
laws against gestation crates”—
criminally small cages into which 
pigs are packed. “We should just 
put him in a gestation crate. I’d 
be happy to eat him if someone 
served him to me.”


“YOU NEED TO 
HAVE DRAMATIC 
ACTIONS AND 
THEY NEED TO BE 
CONFRONTATIONAL. 
AND YOU CAN DO 
THAT COMPLETELY 
WITHIN THE LIMITS 
OF THE LAW. YOU 
WANT TO SPREAD 
THE MEME OF 
ANTI-SPECIESISM 
AS QUICKLY AS 
POSSIBLE.”


--- Page 26 ---

THE NEW JOURNAL
26
Meanwhile, right-wing pun­
dits have not held back from 
launching equally biting attacks 
on DXE. At Bluestem Brasserie, a 
fancy restaurant in San Francisco, 
an activist named Kelly Atlas gave 
a speech last September about the 
abuse that her “little girl” had suf­
fered—her little girl being a chick­
en rescued from a factory farm. As 
Motown-hits played through the 
restaurant speakers, she looked 
around the room at the smirks on 
diners’ faces, and began to cry. 

Her heartfelt words were 
picked up by Glenn Beck and Rush 
Limbaugh, both of whom wasted 
no time pointing out how absurd 
the message was. They listed press­
ing issues that, in their opinion, 
deserve more attention than the 
plight of a chicken. And even lib­
erals who love to hate Limbaugh 
and Beck would have to admit that 
they have a point: police brutality 
in Ferguson, New York and the rest 
of the country is simply more ur­
gent than the pain of farm animals. 

Groff, however, views animal 
liberation as neglected by the very 
people who ought to support it. 
“Animal rights is the orphan of 
the left,” he said, quoting a blog 
post by another DXE activist. And 
though pundits may laugh at out­
pourings of emotion on behalf of 
animals, Groff feels that any pub­
licity is good publicity. “You need 
to have dramatic actions and they 
need to be confrontational. And 
you can do that completely within 
the limits of the law. You want to 
spread the meme of anti-specie­
sism as quickly as possible.”

As the night continued, the pro­
testers’ speeches became more 
personal, their performances more 
convincing. In Shake Shack, the 
staff had a powwow behind the 
counter, but none of them inter­
rupted the funeral procession.

Suzanne Beck, holding up a 
picture of a rooster as if at a vigil, 
raised her voice and began: “Pum­
pernickel was a smart and social 
rooster. He knew his name and un­
derstood when his mom told him 
to go lay down or go eat or go play 
with the cats. He loved to be held 
and kissed and was very protec­
tive of his mom who took him in 
when he was a baby. Pumpernickel 
loved to chat with us and he loved 
to hear how beautiful he was. He 
was one of the most social beings 
I ever knew.”

Then it was Bianca’s turn. 
She had no picture of the pig of 
whom she spoke, but her voice 
rose with emotion, as if speaking 
about a dear friend who had nar­
rowly survived a deadly illness: 
“Franklin is one of the lucky ones. 
He is one of my favorite pigs to 
visit at the animal sanctuary. When 
he was a five-pound piglet, he 
was tossed into the dead pile but 
a concerned neighbor noticed he 
was still alive. She rescued him 
and brought him to the sanctu­
ary. When I visit him he comes 
when you call his name. He loves 
hugs and cuddling in his hay as he 
peacefully falls asleep now know­
ing he will have another day, as all 
animals should.”

Some customers were smiling, 
others were filming. All burgers 
and shakes were left untouched. 
“The dairy industry knew her 
as Number 4391, but to me her 
name was Grace,” Groff said. He 
projected without shouting, like 
someone delivering a soliloquy to 
a packed theater. “Like you and me, 
she wanted only love and kindness, 
but she was used, abused, and then 
discarded by the dairy industry, 
impregnated until she ran dry and 
then thrown out like trash.”

The grand finale was saved for 


“DID YOU KNOW 
THAT AT THE 
FARMS THAT 
SUPPLY PLACES 
LIKE WAL-MART, 
THEY TEAR 
OFF THE BABY 
PIGS’ TESTICLES 
WITHOUT ANY 
ANESTHESIA?”


--- Page 27 ---

27
Brison. “We know that violence 
against innocents is wrong,” he 
said. He did not speak particularly 
loudly, but the restaurant had gone 
silent, and his voice was perfectly 
audible over the background mu­
sic. “We stand with heavy hearts 
to speak for those whose voices 
were silenced by corporate greed 
and lies.”

Over the course of the evening, 
I watched as a loose collective of 
vegans became a coalition of activ­
ists. They began to chant again as 
they filed out of Shake Shack, no 
one breaking character. They had 
not planned to demonstrate in this 
many restaurants, but now they 
were so pumped that they couldn’t 
help themselves. As they passed by 
restaurants they didn’t intend to 
enter, they held up their signs as if 
they were talismans, to keep away 
the carnivorous evil eye. Some­
one suggested that we go up the 
street, to teach Union League a les­
son. Union League was big. Union 
League was The Man. 

The Union League Café is 
an upscale restaurant “in a nine­
teenth-century setting,” as its web­
site states, where ducks and cows 
are given posthumous French 
names and wine pairings to match. 
We filed up the stairs, and through 
wood-and-glass doors into the 
dining room. As the activists be­
gan to shout, the polite murmurs 
of fine dining hushed. A man to 
my left looked up from his “Selec­
tion of Artisanal Cheeses.” A waiter 
in a black vest paused, his metal 
crumb-scraper and crumb-dusted 
plate held demurely at his waist. 
Dressed as we were in sneakers 
and funeral black, with our make­
shift coffin held aloft, we hadn’t 
expected to be let in, but no one 
interrupted the speeches for a 
while, until the owner emerged. 
“You leave this place right now 
or I go to the police,” he said in 
a thick French accent. He pointed 
a fat finger towards the door. “I 
call the cops because this is not 
normal.” As we filed back out, he 
gave Suzanne Beck a little push in 
the back.

On Sunday, December 7, I met 
up with DXE Connecticut 
just as they were being escorted 
out of a mall in Milford by a se­
curity guard. When the guard 
began to warn them about the 
dangers of animal overpopula­
tion, Suzanne Beck looked him 
in the eyes and replied, “Did you 
know that at the farms that sup­
ply places like Wal-Mart, they tear 
off the baby pigs’ testicles without 
any anesthesia? You should think 
about that next time you want 
to eat some bacon.” The guard’s 
smile faded. He reached for the 
walkie-talkie at his belt. “I think 
it’s time for you to go.”

But 
DXE 
isn’t 
going 
anywhere soon. 
In January, DXE unveiled a new 
campaign. They had kept it secret 
up until then, Groff says, for fear of 
“industrial spies.” The group’s na­
tional organizers say they jumped 
the fence of a chicken farm in Cali­
fornia that supplies Whole Foods 
with eggs. On YouTube, you can 
watch them exploring the pens 
late at night, sickly chickens il­
luminated by the beam of their 
headlamps. In another scene, they 
take one of these chickens to a vet, 
who diagnoses a litany of health 
problems: a cut beak, long-term 
diarrhea, maggot infestation. The 
farm’s owner has insisted that the 
chickens filmed were not his and 
that he respects all humane and 
organic certification requirements. 
The New York Times also reported 
that trimming chicken’s beaks is 
indeed standard practice to pre­
vent chickens from pecking their 
pen-mates, which can lead to can­
nibalism. DXE sees this as a testa­
ment to the chickens’ inhumane 
living situation.

You may be forced to think 
more closely about those chickens 
next time you go to Whole Foods. 
DXE has been staging protests in 
stores around the country, holding 
signs and playing animal sounds 
from their cell phones. In Con­
necticut, they have recruited a few 
Yale students, who have brought 
along their friends. They are con­
vinced that they are right. It may 
be relatively easy to dismiss them 
as crazy vegans—people with 
whom you couldn’t possibly have 
a rational conversation—but they 
will happily inform you that the 
great majority of moral philoso­
phers are vegetarian or vegan. If 
you ask, they will lay out their ar­
guments against animal cruelty. If 
you don’t, they will disrupt your 
shopping or your dinner anyway, 
staging funerals and shouting slo­
gans to strengthen a community.

Eric Boodman is a senior 
in Branford College. He is 
a co-editor-in-chief of the 
New Journal. 



**Title: snapshot the yarn bombers**
**Author: Ariel Katz**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T
he yarn hung in purple skeins from the ceilings 
of small tents. It was wrapped into rainbow spi­
rals inside plastic boxes, and interwoven with bright 
green feathers and small iridescent sequins. Yarn 
stared up at me from book covers, from brochures, 
from multicolored quilts stretched over tables, and 
from the hands of women clicking knitting needles.
On a Saturday in October, I was at Stitches East, 
an annual “fiber experience” for knitters, crocheters, 
spinners, and dyers. The three-day-long event boasted 
a marketplace, a fashion show, and a full schedule of 
technique classes. The Hartford Convention Center 
was quiet, save for the mechanical whir of yarn swifts 
turning their wooden arms in quick circles. Booths 
were strung with Christmas lights and decorated with 
framed photos of alpacas. The crowd was what I ex­
pected: largely middle-aged, white, and female. Some 
wore floor-length Renaissance dresses or skirts deco­
rated with cherries.


But I was there in search of “yarn bombers”: 
craftivists who display their knitting in public spac­
es in support of certain social and political goals. I 
learned to knit and cross-stitch at an elementary 
school where none of the work was graded and teach­
ers went by their first names. Crafting was an oppor­
tunity for creative expression, not an exercise in thrift. 
But as Joanne Turney writes in The Culture of Knitting, 
knitting has a history as a “subversive, even devious 
activity.” It has been used as a tool for environmental­
ism, Marxism, and feminism. Knitting can reclaim a 
largely anonymized, mechanized, labor-divided pro­
cess of production, and revalue objects based on the 
time and skill spent creating them.


During the summer of 2014, I walked across a 
bridge over Boston’s Charles River, running my hand 
over the knit-covered handrail between the city and 
Cambridge. The yarn art was created in part in an ef­
fort to connect different communities after the Boston 
Marathon bombings. But such public acts of knitting 
can be even more radical. In 2012, a group called 
Government Free VJJ organized a campaign to send 
knit vaginas and uteri to Republican congressmen 
who had drafted laws restricting women’s reproduc­
tive rights. My imagination of the people who knit-
bombed grew wild. I began to picture them as D.I.Y 
grrrls in Doc Martens and pixie cuts. Maybe, in com­
munities close to my own, I would find the subversive 
“craftivists” that Turney describes. Armed with an en­
cyclopedia of third-wave feminism and a pair of old 
knitting needles, I went looking for knitting circles in 
New Haven—and nearby—that were unraveling the 
patriarchy, one stitch at a time. 


At Stitches East, however, hot-blooded radicals 
were hard to find. I spotted a woman holding a tiny 
green plastic ring in her hands, sewing a lace flower. 
She told me her name was Jacqueline Chalmers, and 
we chatted about what she called “fiberholics” in the 
“fiber community.” When she said she was part of a 
Stitch ’n’ Bitch group, she tripped a little over the 
“bitch” part. (Stitch ’n’ Bitch is a movement created 
by Debbie Stoller, who got a doctorate in psychology 
from Yale, and who has authored a series of pattern 
books with modern projects that appeal to a young­
er audience. Groups of knitters and crocheters who 
gather in coffee shops or yarn stores to knit together 
often refer to the event as “Stitch ’n’ Bitch.”)


I questioned whether my preconceptions of radi­
cal knitters’ appearances were accurate, even though 
she was not wearing, say, an eyebrow ring or leath­
er jacket. So I asked her if she’d ever yarn bombed. 
Chalmers told me that she and her knitting group 
sometimes draped blankets over benches in Bing­
hamton, New York, partially as street art and partially 
as an anonymous donation to the homeless. Another 
attendee, Sara Bixler, a weaver with red and purple 
glasses, told me about a recent yarn bomb she con­
tributed to outside of a Quaker retreat center in Penn­
sylvania. The purpose was to express solidarity with 
local gay and transgender communities.


Guerilla knitting traces its roots to early 2005, 
when, on a whim, Texas-based yarn shop owner Mag­
da Sayeg knitted a cozy for her shop’s door handle. 
Sayeg formed a group called the Nitta Crew, whose 
mission, according to an anonymous member known 


as AKrylik, is to make street art a little more warm 
and fuzzy. Sayeg’s project inspired knitters across 
the world to cover their own surroundings with 
knit “sweaters,” sometimes for beautification, other 
times with more strident goals. Along with her cus­
tomers, Linda Reis, the owner of Knit New Haven, 
yarn bombs New Haven’s Whitney Avenue each year. 
Thick mauve yarn wraps around thin gold string on 
a row of street signs and trees. Between two park­
ing meters, she has stitched a red-and-white heart. 
Trina Machesney, another local knitter, told me the 
“sweater” she placed on a friend’s tree as a birth­
day present was probably the first-ever yarn bomb 
in the Westville neighborhood. She claims the craft 
of knitting is undergoing a modern revival, espe­
cially among American families who had forgotten 
the art. 


I wanted to learn more 
about the importance of knit­
ting for community building, 
so I called Gale Zucker, the 
Connecticut-based 
co-author 
of Craft Activism: People, Ideas, 
and Projects from the New 
Community 
of 
Handmade 
and How You Can Join In. Yarn 
bombing can make a statement 
in a “passive political way,” 
she explained.


She told me about an event 
she organized in Little Rock, Ar­
kansas, at a public library. “It’s 
an urban library, right in the 
center of Little Rock, and we 
started making little things out 
of old stuff that people brought, 
old buttons and threads. We 
went outside and yarn bombed 
all the trees and poles and peo­
ple joined in, in the middle of the city.” It was one of 
her favorite yarn bombing projects. “For those two 
hours, you had a really amazing community effort 
going on.” Zucker’s language sometimes seemed too 
optimistic, and she was quick to dismiss claims that 
craftivism might be largely the hobby of the white 
middle class. Her project did seem valuable, though, 
in that it temporarily drew different demographics of 
the city into the same public space.


Another Westville knitter, Stephanie Maples, con­
ducted a similar project in her own neighborhood. For 
the past few years, she has coordinated yarn bombs in 
conjunction with the neighborhood’s annual Art Walk. 
As we sat in Manjares, a coffee shop with a view of 
Edgewood Park and a few yarn-bombed bike racks, 
Maples described the people who would approach 
her as she yarn bombed. They would reminisce 
about how their grandmothers used to knit and how 
they thought it was great she was reviving the prac­
tice. While we talked, she ran into a few people she 
knew, talking and laughing as she stood by their table. 
It’s easy to imagine her orchestrating a yarn bomb: 
gathering together women—the yarn-bombers who 
have participated in Art Walk were all women—and 
showing them how to patch together an eight-foot-
long scarf from the dozens of squares they have 
knitted together.  


The more women I spoke 
with, the more I began to 
question the idea that knitting 
circles were bastions of politi­
cal action. The knitters I spoke 
to did not consider themselves 
icons of larger movements. “I 
don’t really attach it to anything 
besides personally what I want 
to do,” Maples told me. This 
attitude could be a product of 
the second-wave feminism they 
grew up with: as Turney notes, 
in 1970s and 1980s feminist 
discourse, knitting was seen “as 
an act of compliance and sub­
missiveness, and was derided.” 
In third-wave feminism and 
beyond, the craft was embraced 
as a way of reclaiming tradi­
tionally “feminine” activities in 
new ways


But even if the knitters did not see themselves as 
third-wave feminists, under Zucker’s broad definition 
(“Using craft for a reason beyond the simple making 
of the thing and working of the materials”) the West­
ville yarn bombers I met were craftivists on a very lo­
cal scale. Machesney spoke about reclaiming the pro­
cess of making a product from start to finish, inching 
towards the Marxist theories of knitting that Turney 
discusses in her book. Even when these women are 
not consciously aligning themselves with any particu­
lar movement, their work is a form of political expres­
sion.


**Title: MARCH 2015**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
MARCH 2015
31
lar ideology, they are participating in a different kind 
of action, one that celebrates the act of making and 
being together, in a society where activities like this 
are rare.

I had sought punks with radical values. Instead I 
had found mothers caring just as deeply, if not about 
ideology, then about their neighborhood.

New Haven knitters were invested in their com­
munity-based creation. But a small part of me still 
wondered: where, if not locally, could I find the knit­
ters who were using the craft to tackle capitalism, pa­
triarchy, and environmental destruction? The women 
I talked to mentioned ravelry.com, what Machesney 
called “Facebook for knitters,” several times. The day I 
returned from our interview, I made an account.

Ravelry is a fairly anonymous social network, cen­
tered on what we make instead of who we are. Knit­
ters catalog their yarn “stashes,” document their prog­
ress on projects, and ask for help with tricky patterns. 
Recent forum subject lines include everything from 
“Smocking Stitch Brimmed Hat (help, please!)” to 
“Math Question…” to “Crafty Word Game.” But the 
forums also host discussions about subjects that the 
knitters I spoke to in person were hesitant to broach. 
Threads include “The things we’re too polite to say/
can’t say out loud…” “Please explain radical femi­
nism as charitably as possible?” “Should we dump 
‘Mrs’ and ‘Miss’?” “Islamic feminism” and “Femnants: 
what are you reading?” Groups like the “Big Issues 
Debate Group” start threads about Ferguson, Ebola, 
voter turnout in the United States, and God. 

The future of political knitting communities 
seems to be online, an unlikely home for those who 
harbor some serious nostalgia for Grandma’s hand­
made hats. But Ravelry also shows me the variety of 
forms knitting communities can take. I found that to­
day’s yarn-bombing enthusiasts in New Haven aren’t 
pink-haired activists holding up signs that say “PEACE 
KNITS.” The seemingly modest goals of Westville knit­
ters can coexist with the sweeping ideals of Turney’s 
book and the nonstop buzz of Ravelry’s forums. The 
projects under way in Westville that aspire to bring 
together neighbors may seem self-contained, but they 
are part of a larger quilt of movements and crafting 
groups that continue to adapt, even as they practice 
a historical craft. The nature of the craft seems to en­
courage constant revision and restructuring of the 
communities that support it: after all, yarn can always 
be unraveled, and the knitter can begin again.

Ariel Katz is a senior in Morse College.


**Title: profile investing in writers**
**Author: Grace Hirshorn**

profile
investing in writers
The benefactors behind Yale’s popular creative writing writing courses
by Grace Hirshorn
O
ne evening last November, I sat next to Anne 
Fadiman, sipping red wine and enjoying Mory’s 
famous Baker’s Soup, as Anne told our table of current 
and former students her famous “car service story.” 
When she first came to Yale to give a Master’s Tea, she 
invited a Yale graduate to travel with her in the hour-
and-a-half ride back to her home in Whately, Massa­
chusetts, in order to discuss the craft of editing. 

Paul Francis ’77, sponsor of the Francis Writer-
in-Residence Program, sat at a neighboring table, 
surrounded by alumni of the writing program that 
bears his name. Ultimately, it was Francis’s generos­
ity that made the dinner possible, and it was his spe­
cific intention of endowing a “pastoral” professor that 
brought us Anne. So the story goes, when the selec­
tion committee learned of Fadiman’s traveling men­
torship, they knew immediately that Fadiman would 
fulfill Francis’s vision. 

ne afternoon last December, I ascended to the 
thirtieth floor offices of Delphi Financial, over­
looking New York City, to sit down with the two 



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
THE NEW JOURNAL
32
scale of a professorship, he wasn’t certain exactly what 
form he wanted the gift to take. He did know that 
he wanted his donation to provide something unique 
and valuable for the university.

“Having thirty-three professors in the econom­
ics department instead of thirty-two didn’t seem 
like it would move the needle very much for Yale,” 
Rosenkranz said.

Rosenkranz liked Schmidt’s suggestion of endow­
ing Yale’s first writer-in-residence program, since he 
knew that students got a “certain thrill” from prox­
imity to famous writers. That “thrill” was even more 
than simply being taught by a great educator.

“No matter how distinguished the professors are, 
there’s a star quality that attracts students,” Rosen­
kranz said. His first “star” was Ved Mehta, a blind, 
Indian-born author and New 
Yorker contributor, who served 
as Yale’s first Rosenkranz Writ­
er-in-Residence from 1990 to 
1994. In 2004, Dean Richard 
Brodhead appointed poet Lou­
ise Glück as Rosenkranz Writ­
er-in-Residence, the same year 
Fadiman joined the faculty.

Francis’s 
undergraduate 
experience was marked by the 
mentorship of Branford Mas­
ter and writing teacher William 
Zinsser, the author of the classic 
guide On Writing Well. Fran­
cis noted that his undergradu­
ate study of writing at Yale had 
been a “tremendous asset” in 
his career. So in 2003, Francis 
approached Yale College Dean 
Richard Brodhead with the intention of endowing a 
“pastoral” writer-in-residence—someone who would 
provide advice and guidance to talented students, 
just as Zinsser had. There would be funds set aside 
for “Francis Conversations”—readings with promi­
nent writers. Most importantly, the Francis Writer-
in-Resident would engage with students beyond the 
classroom. One way Francis has encouraged this is 
through reunion dinners with former students, like 
the dinner I attended last fall at Mory’s.

Rosenkranz had not initially intended to limit 
his writer-in-residence program to writers of fiction 
and poetry, and would have been “perfectly happy” to 
sponsors of Yale’s Writer-in-Residence programs. 
Francis happens to be friends with Robert Rosen­
kranz ’62, sponsor of the Rosenkranz Writer-in-Resi­
dence program. The two met many years ago by “total 
coincidence,” through the board of New York Uuni­
versity Law School.

Rosenkranz is the CEO of Delphi Financial Group, 
while Francis has worked in both the private and the 
public sector, serving as the CFO of Ann Taylor Stores 
Corporation and Priceline.com, and in high-level ad­
ministrative positions under New York Governors El­
iot Spitzer, David Paterson, and Andrew Cuomo. 
Rosenkranz described his philanthropic vision 
as “venture philanthropy,” approaching Yale with the 
financial means to enact “less obvious” educational 
initiatives. Rosenkranz’s gifts have enabled the Uni­
versity to develop new science 
and 
quantitative 
reasoning 
courses, construct Rosenkranz 
Hall, and develop its online 
learning platform.

Ultimately, 
he 
praised 
a 
system 
in 
which 
pri­
vate 
institutions 
like 
Yale 
venture 
philanthropists 
work together.

“Private funding makes for 
a more competitive environ­
ment, where schools have to 
compete for funding, faculty, 
students, and reputation, and 
that fosters free-market com­
petition, which makes things 
great here,” he said. 

Both men were drawn to 
donate to Yale out of a sense of 
allegiance to the University. Rosenkranz graduated 
summa cum laude at the age of 19, as the youngest 
member of Yale’s class of 1962, and recalls how the 
college helped him “cobble together” tuition from 
loans, scholarships, and student jobs.

“I just feel such affection for the place,” Rosen­
kranz said. “It was the first time that I’d succeeded 
in what I thought was a big pond and it gave me the 
confidence to think I could do something major with 
my life.”

In 1990, when Rosenkranz first approached Yale’s 
then-President Benno Schmidt with a $1 million gift 
and the intention of establishing something on the 

“PRIVATE FUNDING 
MAKES FOR A 
MORE COMPETITIVE 
ENVIRONMENT, WHERE 
SCHOOLS HAVE TO 
COMPETE FOR FUNDING, 
FACULTY, STUDENTS, 
AND REPUTATION, AND 
THAT FOSTERS FREE-
MARKET COMPETITION, 
WHICH MAKES THINGS 
GREAT HERE.”


**Title: Yale's Writers-in-Residence Program**
**Author: Grace Hirshorn**
**Page number(s): 33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
MARCH 2015
33
sponsor writers of scientific literature or public policy. 
“You don’t necessarily need to write fiction or 
poetry, but you had better be able to express yourself 
well in writing,” Rosenkranz said. 

Though Rosenkranz did not initially set out to 
support creative writing at Yale, he and the profes­
sors he endows are united by an overarching vision: 
a dedication to teaching—both inside and outside 
the classroom. 

As Langdon Hammer, chair of the English De­
partment since 2005, said, the philanthropy of 
Rosenkranz and Francis has enabled the department 
to hire, “in each case, a really extraordinary writer 
and woman of letters who happens to be an insanely 
committed teacher.”

Their commitment to teaching has earned both 
Fadiman and Gluck repeated extensions of their initial 
writer-in-residence 
contracts. 
In 2012, Fadiman received the 
Prize for Teaching Excellence by 
Non-Ladder Faculty. A glance 
through her class’s reviews by 
students is enough to validate 
the decision of the prize com­
mittee. One student claims that 
the six hours of one-on-one 
meetings with Fadiman were 
worth the entire Yale tuition.

Glück’s students also praise 
her teaching attitude and style.
“She’ll say to the class, ‘We 
are all here for the love of this 
craft and the love of this disci­
pline, and because of this, we are constantly revising 
our poems, and because of this, we are here, engaged 
with each other,’ and that’s very much what she be­
lieves, and how the class feels,” said Eleanor Marshall, 
a former student of Glück’s.

And, unlike in other classes with specific cur­
ricula, Glück enjoys creative autonomy in struc­
turing her courses. “There is no attempt by the 
donor to supervise or affect the range of teach­
ing that goes on on his dollar,” Glück said. She 
offers her students this same opportunity for 
creative self-determination.

Fadiman admitted feeling a “particular thrill” 
when her students use their writing skills to accom­
plish good—citing, for example, Sarah Stillman ’06’s 
award-winning work for The New Yorker exposing 
international human trafficking. Still, she ultimately 
echoed Glück’s emphasis on nurturing her students’ 

“I think that writing is free speech, but I don’t 
think that my role is to create political writers,” Fadi­
man said. “My goal is to create freedom, true free­
dom, giving people the skill and pleasure to use writ­
ing for whatever purpose they choose.”

At the same time, the writer-in-residence pro­
gram gives the professors, like Fadiman, the freedom 
to practice their own craft. This support allows them, 
practitioners of art forms that aren’t necessarily lucra­
tive on the free market, a certain stability. Glück feels 
grateful for the teaching profession that enables her 
to make a living and create art “without any induce­
ment” of adjusting her work to suit popular taste.

“I’m very grateful for teaching, because I’m not 
always writing, and when I’m 
not writing, I can teach,” Glück 
said. “A lot of America’s great­
est poets teach. That’s what they 
do. Some of them love it, and 
some of them tolerate it. But 
in the end, it’s how they make 
their living.”

And we students feel lucky 
to have the opportunity to work 
with our literary role models.
“This random guy, giving 
all this money, provided me 
with serendipitous opportu­
nities to sit down with Louise 
Glück. It’s sort of unreal,” Mar­
shall said. “I have benefited so much, and I know that.”

I share Marshall’s gratitude. Though the idea of 
“businessmen meddling in academia” may sound 
troubling in the abstract, the relationship between 
these donors and the writer-in-residence programs 
is highly successful. These “venture philanthropists” 
are motivated by loyalty to Yale, and trust Yale’s fac­
ulty to execute their vision. As a graduate of “Writ­
ing about Oneself,” I have personally benefited 
from the intellectual atmosphere cultivated by their 
financial generosity. 

Grace Hirshorn is a senior 
in Ezra Stiles College.
“YOU DON’T 
NECESSARILY NEED 
TO WRITE FICTION 
OR POETRY, BUT 
YOU HAD BETTER BE 
ABLE TO EXPRESS 
YOURSELF WELL 
IN WRITING.”



**Title: fun in the time of tolerance**
**Author: Austin Bryniarski**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Hey everyone! You’re getting this email be­
cause I want you in my suite this weekend. 
I’ve admittedly invited a lot of you, which might 
mean our chip and pretzel rations will be de­
pleted faster, but it’s important to me that you 
each understand how much I value your friend­
ship. Please refer to the list of those cc’d, and if 
you have any unresolved tiffs with those listed, 
promptly resolve them.

Anyway, we’re calling this a “pre-game,” 
but by no means feel pressured to have plans 
for after it. We would call it a “game,” but we 
wouldn’t want anyone to think they were be­
ing rude if he or she were to leave a bit early. 
So this is somewhere between the pre- and the 
game—like, right where the hyphen would go. 
But by no means is this going to be a fast func­
tion, so maybe it’s more of an em dash? In the 
case that you’ll stay a while, feel free to pre-
game this em bash only a little, but we should 
have plenty of provisions available for buzz sus­
taining. The master and dean and four parents 
from the new Party Patrol initiative will be pres­
ent (better safe than sorry!), so our best advice 
is to not get sloppy.

You will see in the Paperless Post to follow 
(theme TBD, but soliciting suggestions) that 
we have not yet decided on an exact time for 
next Fridays’s get together. That’s because we 
want to uphold the democratic process in our 
festivities. We need your input! Please fill out 
this Doodle poll before 3 p.m. today so that we 
know when is best for everyone and can maxi­
mize attendance. Check out this Excel spread­
sheet we’ve put together, where everyone can 
sign up to bring a dish to share—we’re all le­
gal adults, and it’s about time we started act­
ing (read: throwing potlucks) like it. And please 
complete this Survey Monkey with whatever 
dietary preferences and allergies you may have. 
Best allergy will be rewarded with a voucher for 
one (1) free rice cake. While I have your atten­
tion, I’ll also just add a small reminder that our 
suite has a blanket gluten-free rule, so it’s not 
necessary to mention that in the survey. We’ll 
be drinking a whiskey made from quinoa and 
kombucha to mix. Beer will be a squash lager 
(non-GMO). Diet Coke, seltzer, and whatever 
else you BYO will be available, but only so long 
as you BYO.

Do also note that I’ve attached a few PDFs 
to the end of this email, which we would like you 
to fill out and bring upon your arrival next Friday. 
One of our friends is going to be doing a site 
reading at this party for an anthropology class, 
so there’s a human-subjects research waiver to 
sign for the Institutional Review Board. There’s 
also a document with some questions about 
your vaccination history—if you haven’t been 
vaccinated for measles, mumps, or rubella, 
please let me know SOONER RATHER THAN 
LATER so that I can have the appropriate ho­
meopathic serums on hand in case of a break­
out. We’ve got plenty of Purell, though. Last but 
certainly not least, there will be a photographer 
at the event, but we need your OK and your 
signature before we post any shots to Face­
book, because last semester a girl sued when 
her employer got an unsavory glimpse of her 
double-fisting sugar-free mimosas. Net posi­
tive, though: we weren’t found liable, the com­
munity service hours were memorable, and 
we’re implementing the “Danielle Rule” from 
now on—no double-fisting in photographs, nay, 
at all.

Speaking of social media, the designated 
hashtag for this event is “#OldCampusRag­
er2015.” Of course, feel free to use your own 
alternative (“#OldCampusLowKeyHang2015,” 
or “#OldCampusNoExpectationsNightOut”) if 
you have one—we don’t want to be at all pre­
scriptive with regards to your experience at the 
party, and hope you’ll make it whatever feels 
most comfortable for you! Other things: please 
say you’re attending on this Facebook event, 
and click here to join the GroupMe that can be 
used if you feel at any point that the music is too 
loud.  The Spotify playlist here is customizable 
and public, so have fun with it, but keep it sans 
anything with a parental advisory. We’re asking 
that everyone submit three song choices, and 
at least one of them has to be considered “Con­
temporary World,” which will ensure engaging 
conversation about non-Western instruments 
(new obsession, LOL), among other things. And 
though I’ve mentioned there will be a photogra­
pher, we’re recommending everyone download 
the latest version of the Camera app on his or 
her iPhone. High-definition or bust!

Dress code is as follows: tasteful-mocktail-
early-evening attire. Nothing garish, nothing 
too formal, but please try to look put togeth­
er. We have a few gender-neutral grey frocks 
up for grabs if you don’t think an appropriate 
look can be assembled from your wardrobe. 
If you’re still unsure of what to wear, feel free 
to send me an email. I’m happy to grab cof­
fee at any point to discuss—though, know in 
advance that Mondays and Thursdays aren’t 
my best, Tuesdays I tend to be pretty busy, 
and Wednesdays I’m usually in meetings most 
of the day. That offer goes for any concerns 
you might have—next week’s function will be 
your night, and I want to make sure it meets 
your standards.

Last things last! A list of people you should 
put into your phone in case of emergency is 
attached. We will have chargers for 4s and 5s 
on hand, but we’d recommend that you bring 
your own in case demand exceeds supply. A 
generator can supply power in case of blackout 
(electrical blackout, mind you). You will need 
to present this email, a printed version of this 
email, or a hologram of this email to gain en­
try to the party, and we’ve submitted a list of 
names and blood types to the Yale security of­
fice, so your ID/fingerprick sample should allow 
you to get into the entryway without a problem. 
And finally, remember: you must be 21 to drink 
in the state of Connecticut, marijuana has not 
yet been decriminalized, and your presence is a 
present (but Venmo donations to defray some 
of the costs are welcomed). 
Room A41. Should be fun!
Austin

