Publication date: April 18, 1986
Volume: 18
Issue number: 6

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Margarita Smith
- Editor-in-Chief: Melissa Turner
- Business Manager: Barrie Seidenberg
- Managing Editors: Jay Carney, Tamar Lehrich
- Designer: Maria Hong
- Production Manager: Margaret Bauer
- Photography Editor: Carter Brooks
- Associate Business Managers: Rob Lindeman, Mike Sonnenblick
- National Sales Manager: Peter Lefkowitz
- Associate Editor: Dan Waterman
- Circulation Managers: Debbie Rosier, Stu Weinzimer
- Staff: James Bennet, Martha Brant, Beth Callaghan, Beth Cohen, Anne Hawke, Pearl Hu, Meredith Hyde, Paul Kihn, Hank Mansbach, Patrick Santana, Lori Sherman, Pam Thompson, Yin Wong, Peter Zusi
- Members and Directors: Edward B. Bennett III, Henry C. Chauncey, Jr., Peter B. Cooper, Andy Court, Brooks Kelley, Michelle Press, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Friends: Anson M. Beard, Jr., Edward B. Bennett, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Gerald Bruck, Jonathan M. Clark, Louise F. Cooper, James W. Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Jerry and Rae Court, David Freeman, Geoffry Fried, Sherwin Goldman, John Hersey, Brooks Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr., Lewis E. Lehrman, E. Nobles Lowe, Peter Neill, Fairfax C. Randall, Nicholas X. Rizopoulos, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Dick and Debbie Sears, Richard Shields, Thomas Strong, Elizabeth Tate, Alex and Betsy Torello, Allen and Sarah Wardwell, Peter Yeager, Daniel Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

Between the Vines - 8
Theater - 10
New Haven - 18
Features - 24
Words on Creation - Donald W. Faulkner
Without the Make-up - Paul T. Kihn
Changing Faces - Dan Waterman
In the Tradition - Tamar Lehrich
Opening Doors - 36
Books - 44
Afterthought - 47
NewsJournal - 4


**Title: Words on Creation**
**Author: Donald W. Faulkner**
**Page number(s): 8**

In recent years, the number of applicants to writing courses at Yale has far 
surpassed available openings. Questioning academia's tendency to equate criticism 
with art, critical thinking with reactive thinking, the author finds that today's 
students are searching for a new means of self-expression. By Donald W. 
Faulkner who teaches in the Yale English Department.


**Title: Without the Make-up**
**Author: Paul T. Kihn**
**Page number(s): 10**

The Yale School of Drama, heralded as the top theater training school in the 
country, has a select group of students as well as an elite list of alumni. Yet, 
with insufficient facilities, exhausting schedules, and a glut of playwrights, 
students find that the realities of the drama school overshadow its great reputation. 
By Paul T. Kihn.


**Title: Changing Faces**
**Author: Dan Waterman**
**Page number(s): 18**

Looking at New Haven buildings, the author observes both remnants of past 
decline and products of new growth. Is the city government riding the tide of a 
returning prosperity or creating an empty vision of progress? By Dan Waterman.


**Title: In the Tradition**
**Author: Tamar Lehrich**
**Page number(s): 24**

The number of fraternities and sororities at Yale has increased 200 percent in the 
past two years, reflecting a national trend. While some attribute the resurgence to 
the rise of the legal drinking age and the demise of SAC, others question the 
effectiveness of the residential college system. Does the recent popularity of 
fraternities indicate a growing conservatism at Yale? By Tamar Lehrich.


**Title: Opening Doors**
**Author: Jennifer Lee**
**Page number(s): 36**

Although rarely acknowledged or recognized, 19 disabled students currently attend 
Yale. The opening of the Resource Office for Students with Disabilities and the 
formation of their own student organization reflect the desire of the disabled to 
knock down those barriers which have prevented them from entering the college 
community with ease. By Jennifer Lee.


**Title: A Dishonorable History**
**Author: Lenny Picker**
**Page number(s): 44**

Dan Oren, a former Yale undergraduate and current post-doctoral fellow, uncovers 
and documents evidence of anti-semitism at this university from 1701 to the 
present in his book, Joining the Club: A History of Jews and Yale. 
By Lenny Picker.


**Title: A Time for Conversation**
**Author: Heinrich Von Sladm**
**Page number(s): 47**

Reflecting on his tenure as Master of Ezra Stiles College, Professor Heinrich 
Von Sladm muses on the philosophy of the residential college as a place where 
informal intellectual interchange between faculty and students should thrive.


**Title: Going Underground**
**Author: Marilu Brant**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Going Underground 
In 1961, Yale prepared for nuclear 
holocaust. K-Rations consisting of 
Spam, a pressed fruitbar, a piece of 
chocolate, powdered coffee, and 
cigarettes were stored in underground 
cages. Large bins of water were also 
placed in basements and underground 
steam tunnels. 

Sleeping pills and 
barbiturates were provided with the 
expectation that people might be so 
distraught they would need them to 
sleep and relax. The shelters and 
emergency supplies were never used, 
nor were they removed; they remain as 
Yale's legacy of the paranoia in the 
early 60's. 

With tension 
in Berlin and a 
looming crisis in Cuba, President 
Kennedy set the country in panic by 
encouraging the building of fallout 
shelters. Like most cities across the 
country, 
New Haven followed 
Kennedy's advice and developed a 
Civil Defense Agency to prepare for 
nuclear war. Yale, also, was caught in 
the tide, and appointed its own civil 
defense program in cooperation with 
the city's. 

Colonel Richard Gimbel, '20, the 
curator of the aeronautical literature 
collection at Sterling Library, chaired 
the Yale Civil Defense Committee. 
The plan was to provide protection for 
the entire Yale community from 
nuclear fallout in the basements and 
the underground steam tunnels. 
Radiation detection instruments, 
emergency lighting, heat, and 
communication were to be provided in 
addition to emergency supplies. The 
scheme included making various 
structural changes in the basements 
and tunnels in order to increase their 
effectiveness as fallout shelters: 
openings were to be blocked, walls 
reinforced, and ventilation shielded 
from radiation. The committee based 
its efforts on several assumptions 
which 
served 
to 
rationalize 
the 
existence of the shelters. One was that 
the attack would not be a direct hit- it 
was thought that New York City or 
Boston would be primary targets. 

Secondly, they hoped that the winds 
would 
be 
favorable 
so 
fire 
and 
radiation would not be swept directly 
toward New Haven. 

But even if these assumptions were 
proven to be accurate, the committee 
still 
oversimplified 
the effects of 
nuclear war and overlooked major 
complications. Many of the structural 
changes were never carried out, and as 
a result the underground network 
provided insufficent protection from 
nuclear fallout. And even if the shelters 
had been safe, the supplies would have 
lasted only two 
weeks. 

Other 
expectations were 
unrealistic: 
entire Yale community, for example, 
was expected to get into the shelters 
nine to fifteen minutes after the first 
warning signal. 

These inherent flaws led many of the 
faculty, 
students, 
and alumni 
oppose the Civil Defense project. With 
the exception of Colonel Gimbel, who 
one alumnus described as having 
"proto-military views," even the 
committee didn't take the program 
seriously. As Professor John Blum 
remembers, "It was all a big joke. No 
one really thought the shelters would 
do the job." 

In addition to technical faults, many 
were concerned 
that the 
shelters 
encouraged the acceptance of the 
inevitability of war. One alumnus, 
Lawrence M. Bensky, '58, associate 
editor of Random House, wrote Yale 
President A. Whitney Griswold to ask, 
"Is it the place of an institution 
founded and dedicated to the cause of 
liberal, humanitarian 
learning to 
encourage and support such a blatantly 
defeatist and foolish project?" And as 
Assistant Professor Robert L. Herbert 
reasoned, "the deeper the shelter, the 
bigger the bomb." 

The shelters 
remained 
intact, 
though unused and ignored. In 1976, 
however, several TD students broke 
into a shelter and stolt· barbiturates 
from it. In response, the adminis-
tration dismantled many of the most 
accessible shelters. But yellow and blue 
warning signs still dot the campus, 
serving as reminders of shelters deep 
within the tunnels, waiting to be used. 
- Marilu Brant


**Title: Wearing Success**
**Author: Bronwyn Barkan**
**Page number(s): 5**

Wearing Success 
Esther Kashkin believes that within 
seconds of meeting someone, we assess 
that person's economic status, social 
status and educational background. 
Her image consulting company, 
Elements of Style, reflects this belief. 
For $65, Kashkin will help students to 
express professionalism through their 
clothes, without losing their personal 
style. "Clothing is a metaphor for your 
personality," Kashkin said. "I want to 
teach the language of what you wear." 

When Kashkin first came to New 
Haven a year and a half ago, she was 
surprised to see how Yale students 
dressed. Where were the conservative 
pinstripe oxfords and khakis, so often 
imitated in her native California? 
Conscious that many students do not 
change their casual manner of dress for 
job interviews, she decided to open her 
business last December for the Yale 
community. 

In order to create images, Kashkin 
follows a three-step process. She begins 
by interviewing her clients to discover 
what kinds of clothing, makeup (if they 
are women), 
and hairstyles 
they 
prefer. She then looks at her customers' 
wardrobes. Finally, when a suit and 
hairstyle are agreed upon, Kashkin 
video tapes her clients to show them 
how they move in their clothes. "I want 
to make [the customers] feel good 
about wl;tat they are dressed in," she 
said. 

Kashkin does not attempt to force 
the same trend on all of her customers. 
Instead, she suggests three outfits, 
usually created from the clothes her 
clients already own. When Rebel Ely, 
TD '87, complained that she had little 
use 
for her conservative Brooks 
Brothers suit, Kashkin showed her 
how it could be used for casual dinner 
parties as well as business interviews. 
Occasionally customers want to buy 
new items of clothing; Kashkin will 
purchase them wholesale and ensure 
that they blend in with the client's 
wardrobe. "She showed me how to 
make sure every piece of clothing fits 
like a jigsaw puzzle," Ely said. 

Kashkin worked 
as a 
costume 
designer in California. Over the last 
five years she has received critical 
acclaim for her designs, including the 
Los Angeles Drama Circle Critics 
Award. When she moved to New 
Haven with her husband, Kenneth 
Kashkin, a fellow of Berkeley College, 
she was unable to find work as a 
costume designer with the 
Yale 
Repertory Theatre or The Long 
Wharf; so, she decided to open her 
business. "It grew from a desire to 
work with clothing in theatrical terms," 
she said. Now, instead of scripts and 
history 
books, 
Kashkin conducts 
research on 
images desired 
by 
companies. She also refers to a guide in 
which companies specify what 
applicants should wear during their 
interviews. 

However, Kashkin has found that 
the idea of creating images for students 
is "a very difficult thing to market." 
Relying on word of mouth and an 
advertisement in the classified section 
of the Yale Business Bulletin, she has 
advised 20 men and women, from both 
the undergraduate and graduate 
schools. 

To Kashkin this limited 
response shows that Yale students don't 
want to believe that a job offer may 
hinge upon their image. "I think a lot 
of people don't see a need for it," said 
Ely, "but my God, I feel so much 
better." 
• 
- Bronwyn Barkan


**Title: Off With a Kick**
**Author: Jennifer Fleissner**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Off With a Kick 
For Melissa King, MC '87, Fridays are 
spent dancing. In the morning, she 
rehearses for 
two 
hours with 
Yaledancers. During the afternoon, 
she is dancing again, this time as a 
member of the Paul Hall Dance 
Company (PHDC), 
a 
professional 
group in New Haven. "It's hard 
dancing five hours," King said, "but 
when it's over, it's a great feeling to 
know that you've danced all day." 

King joined PHDC when asked by 
Paul Hall, the group's director. He is 
also a member of the local funk band 
Mikata, and recently choreographed 
"The Wiz" at Ezra Stiles College. Hall, 
after seeing the Yaledancers, asked six 
of the group's members to join his 
fledgling company when it formed in 
January. Along with King, Rachel 
Chapman, MC '86, accepted the offer. 

Apart from these two Yaledancers, 
and two other Yale students, PHDC 
has 11 members; they range from high 
school students, 
who work as 
apprentices, 
33 year-old 
professional dancer. Some commute 
from as far as New York to work with 
Hall, who choreographs all of the 
group's material. Their repertoire, he 
said, ranges from "contemporary ballet 
to Afro-Caribbean to jazz to modern." 
Or, as King put it, "Everything but 
tap." 

For the Yaledancers, though, the 
PHDC offers much more than a 
spectrum of dance styles. "It's so 
healthy to be involved with something 
outside of Yale," King said. "It's a 
whole different 
mind 
frame." 

Chapman also finds the atmosphere 
refreshing. "A lot of the younger 
people in the company have a really 
idealistic attitude about making the 
commitment," she said. 

Commitment, on the other hand, 
deterred some of the other Yaledancers 
from joining. "I didn't feel I was ready 
to dance in that sort of league," said 
Nobel Bellosillo, PC '88, "and it 
seemed like I would have to make a 
choice 
between 
them 
Yaledancers." PHDC rehearses Friday 
evenings and Saturdays, th us 
permitting King and Chapman to 
continue their work with Yaledancers 
during the week. Still, as Robyn Reid, 
SY '87, 
another who tentatively 
rejected the offer, put it, "Friday and 
Saturday are really prime social time." 

Thus far, PHDC has put on several 
short performances, including a 
presentation at the Dixwell Q H ouse, a 
New Haven cultural center, as part of 
Black 
H istory Month. 
King and 
Chapman played a prominent part in 
that show, performing a duet called 
"Gentle Spirit." The. company is 
currently working toward a large 
performance for September, possibly 
to take 
place at 
New Haven's 
Educational Center for the Arts. 

Using th~ summer rehearsals, H all 
hopes to develop a core group of 
dancers in order to form a touring 
company. "The thing that really scares 
me," he said, "is when the summer 
comes, everybody wants to go away." 

King, however, does not foresee a 
problem. 
She plans 
stay the 
summer, and to continue her work 
with the group next year. "It has a lot 
of potential," she said. "I think it'll 
definitely hold together." 

The key to that endurance may be 
PHDC's unique combination of 
dancers; Hall describes the group as 
"multicultural and multiracial." It also 
offers a 
wide range of age and 
experience. 

Another Yale student 
member, FrancisJue, BK '86, is not a 
Yaledancer. "In my experience, a lot of 
companies are very cutthroat," said 
J ue, who took off last year to work in 
musical theater in New York City. "I 
think Paul's company is a really 
nurturing group of people. We work 
well together. We're not out there 
believing that "We know what dance 
is." 
-Jennifer Fleissner


**Title: Money Bytes**
**Author:  (Author not listed)**
**Page number(s): 6**

Money Bytes 
The hum of several IBM computers 
fills the air, almost drowning out the 
ring of the telephone. A calendar filled 
with appointments for the next week 
hangs on the wall,' ' and people sift 
through documents piled on one of the 
~esks. All in all, the scene is a typical 
one for a small, computer-oriented 
company. But on second glance you 
realize that these people look a little 
younger than you would expect. They 
are college freshmen. 

Matt J ones, MC '89, Jim Proud, 
BR '89, and Pramil Singh, BR '89, are 
respectively the Secretary/Treasurer, 
the Vice President, and the President 
of Compuform, Inc., a computer 
corporation which they founded last 
September. Originally intended as 
"just a way· of making some extra 
spending money," the corporation 
began when 
Singh and Proud, 
suitemates in Vanderbilt Hall, began 
charging fellow students a few dollars 
for typing and revising papers on a 
word processor. Singh, who had been 
involved in a similar, though smaller 
scale, business in high school, realized 
the potential for expansion. Jones, 
Proud's classmate from high school, 
joined the other two, and together they 
began advertising their services. 

Almost immediately they encoun-
tered a problem; the Yale Corporation 
stipulates that non-profit organizations 
cannot advertise on campus. Yet off-
campus advertising, 
according to 
Singh, "just isn't worth it for an on-


**Three Yale Freshmen Form Computer Company**
**Author: Pamela Weber**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Three Yale freshmen, David Jones, Robert Proud, and  Rajiv Singh, have combined their talents to form Compuform, Inc., a rapidly growing computer services company.  Initially, the three considered providing services to the Yale campus.  However, they ultimately decided to focus on off-campus ventures.  About halfway through their first semester, they incorporated in Connecticut and leased office space on Lake Place.


Their company now provides a range of computer services, including word processing, data analysis for corporations, and the sale of hardware and software to law offices and medical practices.  The students themselves typically install the hardware, primarily IBM personal computers, and coordinate the software systems.  They are also developing a system to allow them to create their own hardware and software on contract for larger firms.


While the students are not disclosing their company's current financial success, they have plans to invest dividends exceeding $50,000 in projects such as developing a simulated mainframe computer.  They currently employ five or six part-time student workers and have an accountant and a lawyer.  Despite their entrepreneurial endeavors, the three freshmen emphasize that their primary focus remains on their studies and that Compuform's connection to Yale is coincidental. They maintain a balance between their business and their academic lives.



**Between the Vines**
**Author: D.W. Faulkner**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

Words on Creation

Last January, when I posted my class list for my spring term course in fiction writing, I added a note to ease the pains of those who had applied to the course- admission was by writing sample only-and weren't accepted. "I could easily fill another section with qualified applicants," I wrote honestly.  Some days later I passed by the English Department bulletin board to find a rejoinder scribbled at the bottom of the sheet. "Why don't you, dammit?" it read. The expletive may not in fact have been there, but I'm certain it was present in the writer's mind.


I felt badly that day, vowed never again to put a note at the bottom of a class list, and thought a lot about what prompted the remark. I recognized that the person simply wanted a chance to write, to test his or her mettle, and to explore the possibilities of his or her imagination with fellow writers, and a teacher who has something to say about the craft of writing. It strikes me that the student wasn't asking a great deal.


The fact is that in recent years the number of applicants to writing courses at Yale have far outpaced the course offerings. This past year, the English Department's three fiction writing seminars (each accommodating about twelve to fifteen students) had well over two hundred applicants. A similar circumstance existed with the poetry and nonfiction courses offered.


In defense of the Department, there's a healthy range of offerings: the three courses in fiction writing; two in poetry; four in nonfiction (if you include the English 120-121 sequence and the autobiography course); and the invaluable "Daily Themes" (an altogether remarkable course which, because it is so expensive to run and luckily has its own funding, remains virtually unique in American higher education).


There are also writing courses offered in the College Seminar Program, often as many as 10 an academic year, but as the program is designed to generate courses on an ad hoc basis, its list is necessarily unpredictable, a circumstance often overlooked by curriculum planners who tend to rely on its offerings. In addition, there are the offerings of Yale's Summer Writing Program: eight intensive workshop writing courses in poetry, fiction, nonfiction and playwrighting are taught in July and August and give students the opportunity to work unencumbered by a full course load.


As I look back across this list, I find it hard to say that the range of offerings still doesn't meet the needs of qualified students. But the hard evidence of experience (I've taught for the English Department, the College Seminar Program, and the Summer Writing Program) leads me to say that the demand remains.


"And, moreover, can the need be met- is the craft of writing something that actually can be taught?"


Why is this? Why the explosion of interest in writing? Is it a fad, or a deeper trend?  Given declining enrollments in the humanities (I should note here that writing course applicants tend to come from the full spectrum of undergraduate majors offered at Yale), why this strange reversal? And, moreover, can the need be met- is the craft of writing something that actually can be taught?


To me, this constellation of issues has a lot to do with certain failures of American secondary education, shortsighted undergraduate curriculum design, and the generally remarkable resilience of American students. I can only offer what might be termed some pop psychology reactions to the phenomenon of interest in writing courses at this point- I find myself caught up in my own reactions.


Among the things I can say are these: I've long noticed a trend in liberal arts disciplines to mistake the history of the discipline for the discipline itself. For example, most of my academic background is in philosophy. I used to be amazed that I was never encouraged to, for lack of a better word, philosophize; my discipline of study was, with rare exceptions, a history of thought about the nature of the discipline, about Plato, or Descartes, or Nietzche.


Up to a point, this was welcome. I was learning how to think. Independent thinking, though, was rather discouraged; or, at least, my teachers didn't know how to react to it. In short, to my dismay, the attempts to teach me critical thinking- which to me should have encouraged independent thought-trained me less to examine life (as Socrates would have had it) or to wonder at the order of things (as Aristotle might have wished), and trained me more to be a critic, to essentially react to what others had to say on the subject of living.


I find myself taking this experience and reading it into the circumstances of current curriculum design. I am part of an entire generation whose training has been to assume that critical thinking is reactive thinking, a generation that has swallowed its frustrations with its own teachers and has mutely decided to carry on a sham. I don't mean to sound bitter; most certainly there is a need to inculcate a canon of knowledge, but beyond this there is also a need to encourage fresh, independent thought.


This problem, the growth of my own writing concerns, and the fact that, as I used to joke with my students, the training of students to read literary works for meaning alone and not for how that meaning was produced was producing more critics and fewer independent writers, so much so that I worried if these newly hatched critics would have anything to criticize save each other's critical efforts, has led me to my current position.


Couple this with two other issues, one, that American secondary education in the past fifteen years has largely ignored training in writing; and two, that many American students, increasingly those at Yale, are savvy enough to see through the issues of training of criticism-as-reaction (I don't claim to say that any Yale student has thought of the issue in just such a way- indeed, I think many want to explore creative writing opportunities as a blind reaction to this miasma) as a dead end, and you have a fairly complete picture of this constellation. Though I'm tempted to say that the lionizing of criticism-as-art plays into this problem, I don't intend to deal with it here.


What I do intend to take up is the interest in creative writing courses as a reaction to current curriculum design. I take it, perhaps wrongly I admit, as a desire to revivify the current canon of knowledge. In literature, it doesn't strike me as wrong to see a student wish to test him or herself, after a reading of Dickens, Cervantes, Hemingway, or Henry Fielding, and say, "I could go one better than that." I also take it as a response to current writers in the medium. I take it too, as a frustrated response to the hyper-critical mentality that abounds in the humanities disciplines and which shows itself in writing that, both on the level of students and teachers, is wooden and aimless. "Why else," I say to myself, "would there be such an interest in self-expression?" The sixties and early seventies were rife with such concerns. The street, though, offered outlets that aren't available now.


Today, only rough shanties on Beinecke Plaza seem to offer the outlets desired by those interested in political expression.


Interest in artistic expression remains much more difficult to determine. One thing strikes me as clear; a desire for self-expression outstrips the current means of responding to it. Insofar as this has to do with writing, the question remains, can writing be taught? More importantly, can it be taught with an awareness of circumstances addressed? The desire for self-expression stands as only one of the concerns that contemporary students have. Equally important is a dominant pre-professional sense which, I think, justified exploration of the craft of writing. Craft, as opposed to art per se, offers an answer.


Many years ago, Malcolm Cowley wrote an essay on the proliferation of undergraduate courses in creative writing. In it, he wrote, "I doubt that any instructor, however earnest or inspired, can teach any group of students, however talented, to create anything whatever. He cannot give them experience of the world, or a desire to communicate the experience, or do more for their power of invention than merely encourage it, if the power already exists. What he can properly teach the students, or expose them to the opportunity of learning, are rules and practices to be deduced from other people's writing, the standards of the writing profession, and the known resources of language as a medium. He cannot teach the art of writing, since that is unteachable by definition; it is something a fortunate student will learn for himself."


I don't think Cowley was far off in his time, or now. The art of expression cannot, of itself, be taught. Craft, however, can be. For my part, I presume to do no more. That I've been able to work successfully within a liberal arts program stands not simply as testament to the flexibility of Yale's offerings, it stands too as testament to the perspicacity of Yale students who, reading through work, come to understand that the effort of reading lends itself to writing, and that by writing much one learns to write well, and beyond that, to say something real and alive, pure and simple. That the effort of reading lends itself to the effort of criticism is just, but springboarding into new ground is equally just. Opportunities exist for this. There should be more of them.


•

Donald Faulkner teaches writing in the Yale English Department.



**Title: Without the Make-up**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
l
Without the Make-up 
It is nearly impossible for an outsider 
to enter the jumbled world of Yale's 
drama school. Professors say more in 
pauses than in words. Students are 
wary, awkwardly talking "off the 
record." Everyone knowingly speaks in 
cliches. Such indirectness simply 
heightens the monolith"ic reputation 
that shrouds the school. The Yale 
School of Drama (YSD) is great, 
everyone seems to know, too great 
honestly to slander. So here's our 
brochure: Read between the lines. 
Or be patient. Look upon YSD as a 
jigsaw puzzle. Carefully assemble the 
pieces of formal text and inside voices, 
of blustery complaints and candid 
information. The final picture will not 
match the perfect one painted on the 
box. And every insider knows it. 
But the quietude resounds sharply. 
Why do they refrain from offering the 
truest · tale? YSD indeed has an 
incredible reputation. Students apply 
en masse. But those accepted quickly 
discover the underlying troubles, 
realizing how the 60-year-old school 
operates. There is the invariable 
naivete, the inevitable disenchant-
ment. 

Throughout, 
they remain 
cautious. YSD is, after all, a tight 
community, and professionally well-
connected. A telling paranoia reigns. 
Don't rock the boat; don't quote me. 
That is, until December. Patience 
paid off. Organized unhappiness 
emerged, marring perfection, when a 
group of YSD students banded 
together to air specific complaints. 
Frustration that had been building for 
one, 
two, 
three years exploded 
spontaneously in demands for 
recognition. Roughly 25 students from 
various departments met before winter 
break, informally calling themselves 
the "Committee of Concerned 
Students." Each department had 
unique grievances, but several over-all 
problems were distinguished. There 
was a feeling among the group that 
YSD lacked visible, central leadership. 
Students were being treated poorly by 
the Administration but were without 
an organized or official voice. "I don't 
know what goes on up there," said one 
third-year student. "All I see is the 
chaotic result." 

A survey was made up and delivered 
to the entire student body. Around 87 
percent filled it out, and the results are 
startling. There were strong indica-
tions that Dean Lloyd Richards does 
not have enough contact with the 
students. The questionaire also showed 
considerable disgruntlement with the 
faculty. These findings were hand 
delivered to Richards before the winter 
break by members of the unofficial 
"Committee," along with a request that 
he formally respond. 

In January Richards did respond by 
calling the entire school to a meeting in 
the University Theater. Stressing his 
accomplishments as dean, pointing out 
that his job concerns the school's 
budget, Richards talked truthfully 
about the financial success of his 
administration. One student said the 
talk was "a bit of an apology" for not 
being around. Then, in the last minute 
before leaving the stage, he announced 
that he would meet with two repre-
sentatives from each class, department 
by department. So far, the stage 
managers, directors, and playwrights 
have talked privately with him. 

Through a series of often confused 
meetings, on one occasion attended by 
65 students, three concrete goals were 
decided on by the Committee: a 
school-wide system of teacher evalu-
ations, a student government, and 
more visible leadership. But students 
find it difficult to decide whether these 
aims, if achieved, will improve the 
quality of thei.r training. 

Although the Committee has since 
disbanded, more formal and indus-
trious meetings began to occur among 
the departmental representatives. The 
Committee's desire 
for a 
student 
government was seen by some as 
impractical. The students' work-load 
has also increased since December, 
and many are now content to wait for 
the meetings' results, which are by no 
means guaranteed. 

So finally, we are left with a simple 
contradiction: apparent perfection 
masking tacit institutional problems. 
The good, the reasons for attending 
YSD, readily distinguishes itself. The 
bad must be sorted out, 
petty 
complaint from 
structural failure. 
Students recognize the contradiction. 
They have a lot at stake. So, while 
hungrily gulping rewards , 
or 
struggling with grievances, 
they 
question whether YSD, the good and 
the bad, is worth the time, 
the 
professional set-backs, 
and the 
expense. They answer, "Yes," or, "I'll 
know after graduation." But no matter 
how quietly, YSD students do ask the 
question, and, as the December Group 
shows, they now feel strongly enough 
to attack the imperfect side of YSD. 

To understand the contradiction, one 
m ust first recognize the glittering 
attraction of the school, the flawless 
exterio r . 
Graduates from YSD 
constantly appear in the spotlight: 
M eryl Streep, 
H enry Winkler, 
Sigourney Weaver, Albert Innaurato. 
From the outside, it would seem that 
Y ale can create super-stars. 

Organizationally, YSD is unique. 
"Yale is one of the few schools in the 
country where an effort is made to 
provide training for all aspects of the 
theater," said Earle Gister, associate 
dean and 
professor of acting. "A 
replica of the real world is created." 
The school offers training in eight 
d i fferent departments: 
acting, 
di recting, 
d esign, dramat urgy, 
playwritin g, stage management, 
technical design and production 
(TD&P), and theater administration. 

Also, unlike other drama schools, YSD 
promises 
direct 
contact with 
a 
respected regional theater, the Yale 
Repertoire Theatre (Rep). Called the 
"Master Teacher" by administrators, 
the Rep should present a model and 
provide a professional laboratory for 
Yale students. 

Before arriving, new students don't 
see the internal problems and don't 
expect any disappointment. They do 
know that YSD is one of the most 
compet1t1ve drama schools in the 
nation. For example, 1332 men and 
women applied for entry this past fall. 
Seventy-seven, or 5.8 percent, were 
accepted. "Before I got to Yale," said 
30 year-old David Wayne Nelson, a 
third-year actor, "I was expecting 
Shangri-la. I thought the drama school 
would be all I ever dreamed of. I was 
very frightened and, at the same time, 
felt very unworthy." The school offers 
only good, if one can believe statistics 
and a reputation 60 years in the 
making. And one must believe, if one 
plans to attend. A lot will be given up 
in three years. 

Students pay approximately $12,500 
each year for tuition and living 
expenses. Since most are on financial 
aid, they will have large debts to pay 
back after entering the financially 
unpromising theatrical profession. 
Also, students sacrifice three years out 
of their professional careers to learn in 
a school what many believe only the 
real world can teach. The average age 
of a student at YSD is 27; only one 
student was accepted in 1985 directly 
from college. Yale, applicants believe, 
will ultimately benefit them more than 
their current professional paths. 

But d isillusionment occurs after 
arriving in New Ha{ren; these initial 
sacrifices become increasingly im-
portant. T he contradiction begins to 
form in students' minds as they 
recognize the realities of YSD. It is a 
three-year professional training school, 
and training schools don't inject talent, 
they improve technique. "Before I 
came here, 'Yale' was a magic word," 
said second-year actor Patrick Kerr, 
sitting behind a desk in YSD's third-
floor library. "Anyone who came to the 
drama school was a star and would 
work all the time when they got out. 
That's a bunch of garbage. People who 
leave here aren't golden; they're going 
to have to struggle to make it in 
professional theater like anyone else." 

Demands on YSD students' time 
begin with classes, which generally run 
between 9 a.m. and 2 p.m. Apart from 
class, homework must be completed: 
models built, papers and plays written, 
scenes rehearsed and re-rehearsed. In 
the afternoon, work on the various 
school and Rep productions begins. 
Sets are constructed on the mainstage 
for third-year directing projects, such 
as the recent Big Divinity and 
Waterstown Primary; props are gathered 
and costumes sewn for the various 
"Drama 50's," short original pieces 
collaborated on by 
all 
first-year 
students from 
every department. 
Administration students work in many




**A Busy School: The Yale School of Drama**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A busy man: Lloyd Richards, dean or the Drama School and artistic director or the Rep
capacities at the school and the Rep, 
staffing, 
for 
example, the public 
relations and box offices. Rehearsals 
continue into the night, and students 
end one to begin another. 
Finally, there is interest and energy 
enough to put on the weekly Yale 
Cabaret shows, rehearsals for which 
begin at 11 p.m. The Cabaret serves as 
a 
needed release for frustrated 
energies, energies that cannot be 
channeled anywhere else in the school. 
"Things at the Cabaret happen because 
people 
want 
them 
to 
happen," 
explained Brokaw, one of two Cabaret 
artistic directors this year. "There is a 
love and a need for the work, otherwise 
it wouldn't take place. It's too much 
trouble." 

Aside from these daily sacrifices and 
the need for a creative outlet, there are 
problems with YSD's structure. Many 
students feel that they are treated 
poorly at the school. Actors have no 
say in what they are cast in, and rarely 
find out until a day or two before 
rehearsals start. Too many playwrights 
were accepted, leaving some without 
the yearly productions they expected to 
have. Some administration students 
feel like they are used in some positions 
at the Rep to relieve Yale from the 
responsibility of paying full-time staff 
members. The different departments 
tend to be segregated, so politicking 
occurs 
among 
the higher-ups 
enhance the primacy of individual 
departments. And there are many 
complaints raised against specific 
professors and department heads. Such 
talk, sometimes passed over as petty 
gnpmg, 
must be taken seriously. It 
shows the hidden side of YSD's 
contradiction. 

Some of these specific grievances are 
directed at Dean Richards: his hiring 
policies, his Jack of visibility, and, 
more 
recently, 
rumors of his 
opposition to school-wide evaluations. 
He spends a great deal of time away 
from 
the school fund-raising and 
directing productions in Chicago and 
New York. But a larger problem has 
been set heavily on his door-step: the 
conservative trend that the Yale Rep 
has fallen into under his artistic 
direction, and how it affects the school. 

To understand such a trend, one 
must look at the school's innovative 
history. YSD was founded in 1925 
when Edward S. Harkness gave one 
million dollars to create a theater and a 
Department of Drama. The first 
director of the department, George 
Pierce Baker, a former professor of 
English at 
Harvard, 
brought his 
innovative "47 Workshop" with him, 
an experimental program designed for 
new playwrights. 

In 1955, the department became an 
independent graduate school, the Yale 
School of Drama, which would be 
moved to the forefront of theatrical 
innovation during the sixties under 
Dean Robert Brustein. Appointed by 
Kingman Brewster in 1965, Brustein 
came prepared to regenerate YSD, to 
shift it from an academic institution 
into 
professional drama 
training school. He created the Yale 
Repertory Theatre in 1967 as 
something to which his students could 
aspire. The theater soon earned a 
reputation as an 
ideal training 


ground- exciting, experimental, and 
avant-garde. Then, Brustein left Yale 
along with Brewster in 1979. 

· The new President of Yale 
University, A. Bartlett Giamatti, ap-
pointed Lloyd Richards as dean of 
YSD, a position that includes the 
artistic directorship of the Rep. 
Richards, who also acts as the artistic 
director of the Playwrights Conference 
at the Eugene O'Neill Center in 
Waterford, emphasizes the impor-
tance of new 
playwrights' work. 
During his second year at Yale he 
began Winterfest, 
an annual 
presentation of four new plays. 
Occasionally a play by a YSD student 
will be shown, such as this year's Crazy 
From the Heart by third-year playwright 
Edit Villarreal, and Union Boys by 
former YSD student James Yoshi-
mura. 

Richards has 
alsn drawn 
playwrights August Wilson and Athol 
Fugard to the Rep. 

But the Rep relies more heavily now 
on a subscription audience, and many 
students grumble about the "safeness" 
of the shows chosen and presented 
there. 

Though most students 
concurred about the traditionalism 
inherent in today's Rep, only a few 
would talk openly about it. Ellen 
McCartny, a second-year costume 
designer, did all of her work last year 
at the Rep. "I don't see it as the 'Master 
Teacher,'" she said. "I see it as the most 
conservative place on campus. I prefer 
working on the school shows; they're 
all student, and there's a greater sense 
of excitement, a sense of being able to 
take more chances." Paul Selig, a 
third-year playwright, agreed with 
McCartny. 
"It's very conservative 
here, but it's not just the school or the 
Rep," he said. "It's the country. Any 
institution is only as vital as its 
subservient element, and I don't think 
one is in operation here. During 
Brustein's years there was one. The 
Cabaret was wild and dangerous. But 
you can't blame it on Yale." 

Dean Lloyd Richards recognizes 
that students object to the kind of 
artistic link he brings between YSD 
and the R ep. Richards spoke of the 
present conservative trend in both 
institutions, as opposed to Brustein's 
innovation. "Bob was here during his 
time," Richards said tiredly. "That was 
a very different time- a different time 
nationally. He doesn't run ART (the 
American Repetoire Theatre] the same 
way he ran the Yale Rep. The sixties 
were a very revolutionary time. Now, 
we've shifted to a period of less 
ferment." Almost sadly, he added, 
"We're in a transitory time. I can't say 
what the end will be." Then, as though 
he had been asked the question 
countless times before, Richards said, 
"I have not done one thing to be 
different than Bob. I've only done it 
my way." 

Finally, an 
impO£tant physical 
problem concerns YSD's lack of space. 
Headquartered .in 
the University 
Theater (UT) on York Street, the 
Drama School has offices, workshops, 
classrooms, and rehearsal areas in four 
other buildings scattered around 
campus. There is the Yale Rep, 
formerly the Calvary Baptist Church, 
Vernon Hall which houses the Cabaret 
on Park Street, the Drama School 
Annex down a few doors on Park, and 
e some rooms in the 305 Crown Street 
" 
~ building. 
All 
in all, "a motley 
~ assortment of old buildings," as one 
• first-year actor put it. 

~ 
Frank Torok, head of the directing 
} program, takes a stronger view. "The 
-
Yale School of Drama is a 20th century 
i school with 19th century facilities," he 
0 
said. "We seem to be one of the most 
prolific, production-oriented schools in 
the university, and we have no space in 
which to function properly." Some are 
appalled by the surprisingly poor 
workspace; 
most are unhappy. 

Classrooms double as rehearsal halls, 
so no one can use a room to its fullest 
potential. 

A 
long report, 
to be 
submitted to the university, has been 
drawn up department by department, 
calculating how much and what kind of 
space the school has, as compared to 
what it needs. 

On the other hand, the cramped


conditions at YSD can be seen as 
beneficial. After all, 
few 
ideal 
situations exist in the professional 
theater world. "I came here from New 
York," explained Deborah Hecht, 
the speech professor. "This is like 
paradise compared to the space in New 
York. There's never enough space to 
rehearse at any acting school. But 
here, we can practice · our work in 
bigger spaces if we want, and these 
spaces also have a lot of character. If 
the students say anything about it I 
just laugh." 

The contradiction forcefully 
reap-
pears. Students are hesitant to speak 
frankly about their grievances. Partly, 
they are afraid of offending someone 
within their close-knit, professional 
community. But they also don't want 
to mislead; their disenchantment does 
not negate the greatness of YSD. High 
praise still flows easily, even after the 
faults have been discovered. 

Most students are content that they 
chose training school over three years 
in the professional world. They offer a 
variety of reasons, besides the initial, 
logistical ones. Because the school is so 
firmly entrenched in American theater 
and because of the high quality of 
graduates and students, professional 
contacts will be gained. "I would have 
preferred to be locked in a cabin in the 
country," said Phil Stoller, a second-
year playwright. "It's a two-edged 
sword. You meet a lot of interesting 
people who expand your horizons 
here, but you get more work done 
when you're alone. I came here for the 
professional aspects. Yale will help 
separate you from the masses who are


**Title: The Yale School of Drama**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Yale Rep wu formerly housed in the Cavalry Baptist Church.
trying to do what you are trying to do." 
Also, the students themselves are 
unanimously seen as YSD's greatest 
asset. Faculty members view their 
pupils in many cases as their peers. An 
air of professionalism exists among the 
students that commands the respect of 
all who are associated with the school. 
Hecht explained, "If you take 
people- actors, playwrights, design-
ers-who have a dream about some-
thing they love, and you throw them 
into a space with a few theaters, then 
it'll be like children in a sandbox with 
some toys. They're going to make 
something wonderful." 
Despite dissatisfaction with some 
professors, many members of the 
faculty are heralded by students who 
::>ften speak of specific friends or 
mentors on the teaching staff of YSD. 
Such notable professionals as designer 
Ming Cho Li and lighting designer 
Jennifer Tipton are in the staff ranks. 
And the Rep provides well-respected 
directors, actors, playwrights and 
other production people from outside 
YSD who come to New Haven to work 
on its six yearly shows. 
YSD, then, is not what it appears to 
be. Its inherent contradiction disrupts 
the gleaming surface. Yet despite the 
recent eruption of discontentment, 
YSD students have now settled back to 
wait. The problems become secondary 
to the work that must be done. "The 
main concern has been addressed," 
David Nelson said. "There are now 
channels open between students and 
the Administraion." 
So, insiders generally judge the good 
as outweighing the carefully concealed


"The Yale School of 
Drama is a 20th 
century school with 
19th century 
facilities." 
bad. "You're dared to stretch yourself 
to the limit," said first-year actor Bruce 
Katzman. "It's like doing a triple flip 
on a trapeze: when you fall there are 
nets everywhere so you won't be afraid 
to try again." Then, suddenly, "This 
place is heaven to me. That's what I've 
been writing to all my friends." 
Katzman talked of his experience in 
the professional world before Yale. 
"My first two years in New York I only 
studied. The next three I 
mixed 
studying with trying to get a job. I was 
fairly unsuccessful. I couldn't get an 
agent. I couldn't seem to get in 
anywhere. I felt desperate for a place to 
work." So Katzman applied, got 
accepted, and made the decision to 
come to Yale. "I'm 33," he said. "I had 
a pretty settled life in New York. I had 
a real nice apartment. T his is a big 
change, and a lot of money. I'm going 
to be 36 when I get out of here. I don't 
know what kind of pay-off I'll get." 
• 
Paul Thomas Kihn, a sophomore an 
Silliman, is on the staff of TN].


**Title: Changing Faces**
**Author: Dan Waterman**
**Page number(s): 18**

New Haven/Dan Waterman 
Changing Faces 
On Church Street, across from the 
New Haven Green, a drama is taking 
place. There, on the perimeter of the 
historic green, are the gothic remains of 
New Haven's old City Hall. Once the 
city's center of government, it was 
destroyed in 1928 to make way for an 
expanding city- to make way for 
progress. It is now a thin fac;:ade. Im-
mediately to the left of that fac;:ade is 
a gaping hole, a vacant site set off from 
the street by high walls of chicken wire. 
That site has remained empty for the 
last 40 years. It awaits the construction 
of a new government complex which 
has been consistently begun and 
abandoned since 1928. To the right of 
the old City Hall is the Powell 
18 The New JournaVApril 18, 1986 
Building, 
where an old manual 
elevator clangs up and down its shaft, 
and pounds of plaster fall from the 
ceiling each day. In this decrepit 
building the New Haven government 
now 
temporarily 
resides, 
as 
government employees 
anxiously 
await its demolition. 
These three sites embody a great 
deal of New Haven's history, its 
changes, its growth, or perhaps its lack 
thereof. New Haven is a city which for 
decades has been on the decline, 
plagued by stagnation and decay. The 
government's current place of 
residence, 
the 
dilapidated 
Powell 
Building, symbolizes the failure of past 
attempts at renewal. But the scene also 
suggests a potential for improvement. 
The Powell building is scheduled to be 
demolished next month, and a new, 
badly needed government complex 
and twenty-five story office tower will 
be built in its place next year. 
The city government, spurred on by 
a strong and relatively stable economy, 
cheap construction costs, and low 
interest rates, has been anxious to 
revitalize this once flourishing city. 
Many projects have come to f~uition 
over the last few years, due mostly to 
City Hall's recruitment of private real 
estate developers. The theater district 
has been 
renovated, 
and new 
downtown residential and office 
buildings have been constructed. But 



**Reflections of New Haven: past and present**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Five years ago, the 
city had declined so 
much that the new 
administration's 
emphasis was on 
'getting something , 
anything, going.'" 
little has been done in the past or is 
being . done now 
for 
low-income 
housing. For these reasons, among 
others, the city has been criticized by 
local press, aldermen, and government 
officials. The city's theory of 
development appears to be a "trickle 
down" system of economic growth, 
emphasizing big business, 
private 
developers and private money as a 
way of boosting New Haven's 
economy. 

"We have a vision of New Haven and 
wher"e it can go in the future," said 
William Ginsberg, head of the city's 
Development Administration, a posi-
tion appointed by Mayor Biagio 
DiLieto. "We have a way to add to its 
economic base and its image of itself." 
Described by some as the mayor's 
"right hand man," Ginsberg wields a 
great deal of influence as coordinator 
for the three major aspects of the city's 
development- economic, housing 
and downtown/harbo""r de~-elOpment: ·-
Ginsberg, a man who is regarded by 
his associates as capable, intelligent, 
and concerned, speaks with authority 
and confidence about the vision he 
maintains. "More and more as New 
Haven evolves, I personally see a city 
that is urban in the sense that it is a 
regional center. It needs a strong 
pedestrian life, stressing residential as 
well as work areas. It must have things 
which draw people here- entertain-
ment, culture, commercial office 
space, and the complicated networks of 
strong neighborhoods and loyal family 
businesses, all of which add towards its 
rejuvenation." 

But Ginsberg's vision depends on a 
relationship between government 
officials and private developers- a 
dynamic of progress which did not 
exist twenty years ago. Then, the 
agenda for change was set almost 
entirely by a dialogue between the city 
government and the public. But the 
city's attempts to modernize brought 
fittle improvement. In fact, in its 
efforts 
to encourage growth, 
the 
government built the Oak Street 
intersector in 1959. An extension of 
U.S. 95, it cut straight into th~ heart of 
the city and destroyed many of the old, 
ethnic neighborhoods. According to 
Ginsberg, before DiLieto took office 
five years ago the city had dedined so 
much that the new administration's 
emphasis was on "getting something, 
anything, going." It was then that the 
city turned to large private developers 
as the solution to its problems, and .the 
dialogue between the government and 
the public disappeared. With a sound 
economy and a construction boom, the 
New Haven government is now in an 
advantageous position. Not only can 
the city entice developers with tax 
breaks, mortgage delays, and federal 
loans, but it is able to select those 
developers from a ve_ry competitive 
market. 

New Haven has utilized 
local 
developers such as the 
Fusco 
Corporation to build the Long Wharf 
Maritime Center and the Schiavone 
Corporation to renovate the theater 
district. It has also lured a well-known 
developer of office towers in downtown 
Manhattan 
to 
construct 
government complex. David Chase 
with the Olympia-York Corporation, 
one of the largest developers in North 
America, is in charge of building a new 
City Hall and adjacent 25 story office 
tower on the site where the Powell 
Building currently stands. Containing 
420,000 square feet of retail office 
space, the tower will become the 
largest building in downtown New 
Haven. 

Despite the advantages of a sound 
economy and a 
competent, 
well-
respected developer, construction of 
the government complex suffered a 
setback, 
indicative 
of a 
problem 
inherent in the city's new development 
approach. 

Chase 
was obliged to 
postpone the demolition of the Powell 
Building, which originally 
was 
scheduled for last year, when he was 
unable to secure guarantees from 
businesses to occupy the tower's space. 
Especially for a building as large as the 
proposed tower, a developer must be 
assured of a large occupancy prior to 
constructing it which will generate 
enough 
revenues to pay for the 
building and make the developer's 
investment worthwhile. 

New City Hall has been in the works 
for decades, but the office tower is a 
recent addition to the pr~ject. The 
City Hall alone will cost 15 million 
dollars in public funds to build. 
Because building just a city hall would 
not allow developers to make a profit, 
the city suggested that potential 
developers build an additional office 
tower which will cost 70 million dollars 
through private financing. Such an 
investment scheme attracted a large 
developer like Chase-Olympia/York, 
which has agreed to build City Hall at 
cost for the government. 

The difficulties that Chase 
encountered in attracting occupants 
for the office tower illustrate the central


Many officials on the city's planning 
boards see office space as the key to 
New Haven's economic success and 
growth. Both officials and developers 
believe that the construction of retail 
office space will generate revenues for 
the city's economy as well as attract 
outside industries to locate in New 

But 
many others are 
concerned that New Haven might be 
over-building and creating more office 
space than can be filled since the city 
already contains over 250,000 square 
feet of empty office space. 

Ironically, 
most of the 
tower's 
potential occupants were being lured to 
the Long Wharf Maritime Center, 
another office building project 
sponsored by the city. In essence, New 
Haven was promoting two major 
developments of retail office space at 
the same time which competed for the 
same limited 
business 

Nonetheless, Ginsberg maintains that 
the two projects attract completely 
different types of clientele and in 
theory should not compete with one 
another. 

Furthermore, he believes that the 
office glut will not hinder future 
growth · but encourage it. "If you 
assume that existing patterns of filling 
office space will continue, there is no 
good justification for what we are 
doing. It would take years to fill these 
projects. They are all risky, but we 
hope that office trends will change. 
Those trends haven't hit New Haven 
yet but there are a lot of things that 
make New Haven attractive and we 
feel our time has come." He believes 
that such a development program wili 
attract 
major companies 
New 
Haven and generate jobs and 
revenues. But so far developers have 
only been successful in relocating New 
H aven companies to different places in




**The Direction of New Haven Development**
**Author: Dan Waterman**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The direction of New Haven development is apparent, but the destination is unclear.  The Maritime Center now occupied by Southern New England Telephone (SNET), which moved from George Street, is still fifty percent vacant. The demolition of the Powell Building is scheduled for next month and construction of the tower should begin within the year, only because Connecticut Bank and Trust (CBT) finally agreed to move in. Ginsberg is banking on New Haven's sound economy and a strong labor market to attract newcomers to the region, but he has tough competition throughout Connecticut. He will have to compete with such meccas of corporate industry as Hartford, Stamford, and the "Gold Coast" region of the state where there also exists a tremendous glut of office space. "We have tough competition in a tough market and it will take a lot of work to fill those buildings. But also understand that job creation goes beyond downtown office spaces and moving in companies is only preliminary. We must take it further."


Ginsberg speaks of "taking it further," but what that entails is not quite clear. Other than retail office space, New Haven's developments consist of a potpourri of other projects. These include the continuing renovation of the theater district, hotels and various downtown residential projects, such as Whitney Grove Square, a project of 300 or so townhouse units costing $300,000 each. The project has had a tremendous response of interested occupants, bolstering the city's hopes of bringing residents back from the suburbs and into the city. Another such project is the Harbor Landing at City Point, a development of high rent condominiums with a private marina and boat slips for residents. This project in particular has come under fire by local residents and officials for fears that it might diminish or destroy the old neighborhood which already exists there. But Ginsberg maintains that no such conflict should arise. "The concern is not with the Harbor Landing per se because it is not really a part of the City Point neighborhood. Development of the marina will bring in a lot of people. We want to develop it while maintaining the integrity of the neighborhood. It's a tough balancing act between the two."


Development in New Haven at this time is contingent upon economic feasibility alone. Money from the private sector and the buffeting of the industrial economy dictates what gets built, where it gets built, and who it will ultimately serve. Quality, aesthetic value, and diversity of interests in such a system often take a backseat or are entirely ignored. And some people fear that such a program of development is far too narrow, limited, and short-sighted, as damaging to New Haven's culture as it is a boon to the economy. Today, while the economy is as healthy as can be expected, far better than five years ago, a great deal remains to be seen. City Hall is optimistic about the changes taking place in New Haven, but its approach still has many problems. Its alterations could dramatically affect the face of the city. What we are left with in the end will be a city as full and mature as it once was, or a facade of progress as empty as the old City Hall.


Dan Waterman, a sophomcre in Ezra Stiles, is associate editor of TNJ.


**Title: In the Tradition**
**Author: Tamar Lehrich**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
It's 1958 and you're a Yale freshman wondering what to do on a 
warm, breezy Friday night. Walking down York Street, you pass the 
Yale Dramat building on your right and impulsively decide to check 
out the off-campus parties. Turning down the path towards "Frat 
Row," you think about all of your friends who were elected to 
fraternities. Activity seems to be going on in all of the luxurious-
looking buildings; lights shine and music can be heard from within the 
frat houses. You remember when you had dinner at Delta Kappa 
Epsilon- the waiters, the huge dining room, the well-stocked bar all 
remain vivid. Maybe I'll join next year, you think as you enter Psi 
Upsilon, immediately recognizing faces and taking a bottle of beer. 
Twenty-five years later, it's 1983. You're a freshman walking back 
from dinner on a Friday night with a few friends, debating what to do. 
You promised to tend bar at Morse-Stiles Casino night; someone else 
votes for the benefit dance in Dwight Hall chapel, and no one wants to 
miss the other SAC party in T.D.- there's supposed to be a great 
grain-alcohol punch. As you smile at each other, deciding to go to all 
three parties, you shake your head, hoping you won't wake up the 
following day with a headache. 

Considering the fact that in the past two years, the number of 
fraternities and sororities at Yale has increased 200 percent, one can 
only guess which experience will be more familiar to next year's 
freshmen, the Class of 1990. There now are eight fraternities at Yale, 
and three more are in the process of establishing themselves on 
campus this semester, an increase which reflects a growing national 
trend. The rise of the legal drinking age and the virtual demise of the 
Social Activities Committee (SAC) appear to be direct causes for the 
recent appeal. While the members of fraternities cite their community 
service projects and their efforts to restructure Yale's ailing social life, 
others fear that the Greek system will cause a fragmentation of student 
life, detracting from Yale's sense of community. Yet, most students 
cannot believe that the Greek system could ever be a threat to the 
social structure at Yale. With approximately 275 students belonging 
to fraternities, it is no longer uncommon, especially as a freshman or 
sophomore, to know several people who belong to Alpha Kappa 
Alpha, Alpha Phi Alpha, Delta Kappa Epsilon, Kappa Sigma, Kappa 
Alpha Theta, Sigma Chi, Sigma Nu, or Zeta Psi. 

Currently each fraternal organization at Yale seems to have its own 
distinct priorities and agenda, though the general structure of each 
appears similar. Most have weekly meetings during which the members 
"Joining was a way of 
defining myself within 
the university as a 
whole. I guess the 
word for it is . 
brotherhood." 
Through the: 1950'a virutally every Yale: 
fraternity had a house:- most were: on 
"Frat Row" behind the: Yale: D ramat. 
address administrative concerns and 
bureaucratic details. Aside from Sigma 
Nu and Zeta Psi, which currently are 
leasing houses on Lake Place, located 
behind Payne-Whitney Gym, the main 
topic of import at each meeting seems 
to be the search for a house or a lodge-
type of social gathering place. Several 
groups involve themselves extensively 
in community service, working with 
the Adopt-a-Grandparent program, 
volunteering at Columbus House, or 
donating food to the Battered Women's 
Shelter. Other fraternities concentrate 
solely on social activites, organiz.ing 
bowling outings, 
cocktail parties, 
poker nights, or trips to other schools. 
A couple have libraries, collecting used 
text books and old exams. 

Fraternity members seem uniformly 
to share the opinion that at Yale, it's 
unrealistic to assume that the Greek 
system will ever dominate a member's 
social life. Pete Smul, MC '87, joined 
Zeta Psi last year after hearing about it 
from his roommate. "Here you can't 
expect 100 percent commitment from 
the members of a frat. You have to 
.. 
~ 
study, go to the gym, and no one wants 
it to encompass their whole life," Smul 
said openly. While intending to live in 
the Zeta Psi house next year, he will 
continue to have a 
Morse meal 
contract. "Fraternities aren't for 
everyone," he admitted. "There are 
5000 
undergrads and 2500 
male 
undergrads- how many can you 
support socially anyway? Yale will be 
overrun by more than 10 frats; there 
just aren't enough guys to fill them." 

Established in the 1850's, Zeta Psi 
has had a chapter at Yale until as 
ii::!!!ii~ i ! "Fraternities sell 
j themselves with the 
~ notion that they are 
places where you can 
come and drink." 
recently as five years ago when a fire 
destroyed its house. In 1984 twelve 
students reestablished a chapter at 
Yale, and now there are 38 members. 
They currently have a three-year lease 
on a house on Lake Place with an 
option to buy. Not knowing any of the 
other members before he rushed, Smul 
is now president and he credits Zeta 
Psi for its diversity. "We have a lot of 
different types of people," he said. 
"There are five football players, five 
baseball, a bunch of tennis players, 
crew jocks, musicians. That's the best 
thing we have to offer: people can get 
out of the habit of just hanging around 
with their teammates." 

Zeta P1i i• one of the two £raternitie1 at Yale to have a hou~e on Lake Place. 
Despite the recent revitalization of 
fraternities and the ease with which 
they have been formed at Yale, 
obstacles still remain which complicate 
their immediate growth. Establishing a 
fraternal organization usually requires 
little more than writing to the national


chapter, which in turn will provide 
everything from reference manuals to 
representatives who will live in New 
Haven 
to 
help with 
the 
frat's 
organization for the first 
year. 

Fraternities choosing to register with 
the university are treated just like any 
other student organization; they have 
access to space, use of the Yale name, 
and official recognition. Yet, even 
those that are given the use of a room 
on campus for meetings still lack a 
place 
for 
social gathering, 
often 
resorting to Naples, Demery's, or Rudy's. 
Because they are without alumni and 
thus without any financial support, 
fraternities are struggling for funds-
for capital. Not everyone can always 
afford to pay the annual dues, which 
can exceed $150, and those founding a 
frat can pay as much as $500 over two 
years. So fraternity members rely on 
parents, the national chapter of the frat 
as well as their own savings to cover 
the expenses of maintaining a house or 
social activities. 

Although every Yale student has 
their own reasons for joining or not 
joining social societies, the desire to 
feel like part of a group, to find a 
niche, seems to be a common factor. 
Shannon Barr, SY '88, belongs to Sub 
Rosa, an undergraduate organization 
without national affiliation that began 
as a women's companion group to 
Delta Kappa Epsilon (DKE); they 
were once known as "DKE's little 
sisters." Sub Rosa has no formal rush 
process; all members are tapped to join 
by 
previous members. 
With 30 
members, the group, which does not 
consider itself a sorority, performs 
community 
service and plans 
sponsor speakers. Having joined last 
October, Barr feels that students are 
searching for a supplement to what 
Yale offers socially. "I've had to deal 
with a lot of friends teasing me about 
the connection with DKE. People 
think that we sit around, drink, and 
talk about football players," Barr said, 
smiling. "It's much 
more than 
that- it's an opportunity to meet more 
women at Yale and get together and 
talk- outside of a college, a sport 
team, or a singing group. It's not a 
whole identity thing but just part of my 
life." 

The history of the Greek system at 
Yale reflects the changing ideological 
trends of the nation, suggesting that 
the current popularity of fraternities at 
Yale may indicate a 
growing 
conservatism within the country as a 
whole-a return to the sensibilities of 
an all-male, racially and culturally 
homogeneous community. With the 
advent of the residential college system 
in 1934, only married students could 
live 
off-campus 
without 
financial 
penalty. Frat«>rnity members had to 
pay for both a meal contract and a 
social activities fee in addition to the 
costs of living off-campus. 

A 
significantly smaller percentage of 
students were on financial aid, so the 
added financial responsibility of living 
in a fraternity house was not a 
deterrent. 

In the late 1950's, fraternities were 
very active at Yale. Students could join 
sophomore year, and virtually every 
fraternity owned its own house. An 
Inter-Fraternity Council composed of 
representatives from each frat also 
existed. "In Silliman it was unusual for 
a classmate in a fraternity to attend a 
social function outside his own group," 
John Wilkinson, Associate Dean and 
Dean of Undergraduate Studies, said. 
"Fraternity Row" was located beyond 
the Daily News offices; the buildings 
now occupied by the Fence Club, the 
Yale Cabaret, and the Afro-American 
Cultural Center were once frat houses. 

As the cost of education increased and 
students became more diverse in terms 
of racial, religious, and socio-economic 
backgrounds, the number of people 
who could afford to join fraternities 
diminished. 

By the 1960s, most of the advising 
and counseling took place in the 
residential colleges, and there had been 
a dramatic growth of the civil rights 
movement. Students' identification 
with the colleges grew and their desire 
to become involved with fraternity life 
lessened. With the increased use of 
illicit drugs, the popularity of alcohol 
and fraternity bars also declined. Some 
Yale fraternities belonged to national 
chapters which either blatantly or 
subtly discriminated on the basis of 
race, religion, or ethnicity. When 
Saint Anthony 
Hall, 
traditionally 
known as a non-social or "literary" 
fraternity, was the first fraternity to tap 
a black undergraduate, the St. A's 
chapter from the Univerity of Virginia 
picketed at Yale. When Yale fraternity 
chapters refused to discriminate, they 
gradually lost the financial support and



**The Resurgence of Fraternities at Yale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"If the philosophy 
behind Yale's 
residential college 
system is incompatible 
with the outlook of 
fratemities, should the 
administrators use 
their legitimate power 
to protect campus 
ideals?" 
subsidization of the nationals, and one 
by one they began to close. "They 
couldn't afford to keep house. It's 
expensive to maintain a dining room, 
bar, bartender, waiters, and pay 
property taxes. They were dead, long 
before the drinking age moved from 21 
to 18," Wilkinson explained. "The 
paradox is that the new move of the 
drinking law gave them life again." 

Several factors have combined to 
create an ideal climate for fraternities 
to grow, though administrators and 
students alike attest to the fact that the 
change in the legal drinking age is 
perhaps the clearest and most glaring 
reason for the resurgence at Yale. In 
1983, Ronald Reagan successfully 
appealed for cooperation to end the 
"crazy quilt" of different states' 
drinking laws. 
He then 
signed 
legislation that would deny Federal 
highway funds to states that kept the 
drinking age under 21 , praising the 
"great national movement to raise the 
drinking age." College administrators, 
including those at Yale, sympathized 
with efforts to decrease the growing 
number of alcohol-related car 
accidents among 
the college-age 
population. Yet, now they're saddled 
with laws which may be as difficult to 
enforce as prohibition was in the 
country as a whole. Only 25 percent of 
Yale students are oflegal drinking age, 
and in order for a student organization 
to serve alcohol at SAC parties, police 
officers as well as university-approved 
bartenders must be hired. 

Wilkinson feels torn between his 
responsibility as administrator and his 
28 The New JournaVApril 18, 1986 
recogmt10n of the realities of social 
psychology. "We don't want to be in a 
position where we as an institution 
encourage the violation of the law. I 
think this is a challenging time to 
figure out ways to make college 
functions varied and interesting," he 
said. "On the other hand, I worry 
about a society which tries to prohibit 
things which 
are attractive to 
a 
majority of people." He rubbed his 
brow. "I understand why the legal 
drinking age has been raised. I just 
wish that when the age was at 18, it 
had been enforctd- but that's just one 
voice crying in the wilderness." 

"Fraternities sell themselves with the 
notion that they are places where you 
can come and drink. I'm concerned 
about the legal liability and financial 
liability of this," J. Lloyd Suttle, 
Associate Dean and Dean of Admin-
istrative and Student Affairs , 
emphasized, looking harried. "lfl were 
an officer in a fraternity, I'd be scared 
to death of what might happen when a 
group of freshmen gets quite drunk 
and leaves Lake Place at all hours of 
the morning. What's the risk of a 
drunk freshman getting hit by a car on 
Elm Street? It'll take only ont incident." 

He paused. "Who's going to 
be 
responsible? I can warn them, but I 
can't control them." 

The adverse effects of the Local 34 
strike last fall also have contributed to 
the recent popularity of the Greek 
system at Yale. For the Class of '88, 
who were freshmen during last year's 
strike, their first semester at Yale was 
one characterized by a 
lack 
of 
operating dining halls; no meals were 
served at Commons or within the 
colleges, preventing freshmen from 
meeting each other easily. Because of 
the lack of organized social activites, 
few bonds were formed with people 
from other residenftal colleges. This 
situation 
resulted 
in 
divisive 
freshman year for many students, 
creating a sense of social isolation 
which was magnified by the absence of 
a central student facility at Yale. 

The growing conservative trend in 
the nation has also added to the 
resurgence. Today some long to return 
to the period before the political 
turmoil of the late 60's, when socially-
oriented fraternal groups thrived and 
students were not publicly demon-
strating and confronting moral and 
ethical issues. One fraternity member 
commented, "The trend of people 
wanting to be super-radical, liberal, 
and non-conformist is fading." 

Disillusioned with the social life and 
the college system, Marco Rosen-
baum, TC '88, and David Hogg, TC 
'88, were looking for an alternative 
when 
they decided 
to 
begin a 
fraternity . "I had envisioned this great, 
tradition-oriented school: 
cocktail 
parties, chummy brotherhood, road-
trips. That fits my idea of what Yale 
should be like," explained H ogg with a 
thick South Carolinian accent. A 
reproduction of Picasso's Guemica 
hangs above the fireplace of their living 
room in Trumbull. "We want to get 
back to 'Old Yale,'" Rosenbaum, who 
grew up in Texas, added. "Traditions, 
rituals, breaking down into social 


--- Page 29 ---

groups- I like that sort of cliquish 
atmosphere. 
Fraternities can 
only 
enhance that." 

Rosenbaum, Treasurer, and H ogg, 
Pledge Trainer, 
are among the 
founders of the Yale chapter of Sigma 
Chi as well as active Political Union 
members. 
Founded in 
1855 and 
formally reestablished at Yale this 
semester, Sigma Chi presently has 
thirteen members and five more to be 
inducted. Not wanting to threaten the 
residential college system, 
the 
fraternity currently has no plans for 
establishing an ofT-campus house. 

While both feel that the university is 
failing to provide alternatives which 
will restructure the campus social life, 
Rosenbaum and Hogg also realize that 
Yale's laissez-faire attitude has no 
guarantees. "If Benno Schmidt and 
John Wilkinson decide that fraternities 
aren't good, then they'll just start 
pressuring us ofT," Rosenbaum said, 
smoking a Marlboro. "They could 
easily drive us underground. All it will 
take is someone getting hurt or just one 
person who's rejected from a fraternity 
and can prove it was due to some form 
of discrimination ." Yale's tacit 
acceptance of the growth of the Greek 
system 
seems uncharacteristic to 
Rosenbaum. "I'm surprised that no 
one's demonstrated at all. 
The 
Women's Center seems to be very low-
key about frats." He paused. "You 
know, the argument of sexism is 
perfectly valid- sororities are sexist 
and fraternities are sexist." 

The desire to begin new traditions at 
Yale has led women as well as blacks to 
create and form fraternal organizations 
of their own. Julie Heller, PC '88, 
sa!d, 
"I believe 
in the 
feminist 
movement, but Yale is still in many 
ways a man's school; there are no 
traditions 
for 
women here." Her 
roommate, Miriam He~an , PC '88, is 
president of Kappa Alpha Theta. 

"People always see fraternities as a 
breaking apart, but it really pulls 
people together," she said. "You can't 
just have a big beer party anymore. 
Now everything's underground, and 
that's added to the fragmentation of the 
colleges, not fraternities." 

Founded in 1870 by a group of 
women at DePaul University, Kappa 
Alpha Theta represents the United 
States' first "women's fraternity," a title 
originally created because the term 
"sorority" had not yet been in use. 
Established in September at Yale by a 
group of sophomore women, Kappa 
Alpha Theta now has 10 members and 
14 pledges. Last semester a Theta 
m ember and graduate of Washington 
State University lived in New Haven 
solely for the purpose of acting as the 
Yale chapter's consultant. 

One entire wall in Heller's living 
room is plastered with photos of 
men-everyone from James Dean to 
Paul Newman. A Yale banner hangs 
over the fireplace and a Gone with the 
Wind poster adorns another wall with a 
small television set nearby. With both 
brothers in fraternities, Heller had 
always maintained a stereotyped view 
of sororities. But last spring when two 
of her close friends began the process of 
starting a sorority, she decided to give 
it a chance. "For me, it was a shock to 
move into the college after freshman 
year- it's sort of isolating," Heller 
said. "But in Theta, we've got a 
member from Lima, Peru and one 
from Lima, Ohio." 

Kappa Alpha Theta reflects the 
changing image of college sororities in 
the U.S. Increasingly becoming career-
minded, sororities are concentrating 
on establishing professional networks 
to help their members enter and 
advance in their chosen fields following 
graduation. Partly as a result, they've 
been able to attract record numbers of 
Julie Heller, PC '88, and Miriam Herman, PC '88, founded Kappa Alpha Theta with 
a desire to begin traditions for women at Yale. 
The New Journal/April 18, 1986 29 


--- Page 30 ---

**The Impact of Fraternities on the Yale Residential College System**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Perhaps the most unclear and 
abstract issue relating to the Greek 
system at Yale concerns the impact the 
growth of fraternities will have upon 
the residential college system. While 
many of those in favor of frats contend 
that the college system never worked 
for them, others fear that fraternities 
will threaten to topple the entire 
system. The university has a long-
standing policy of non-interference 
with 
fraternities, 
not working to 
sustain them or to end them. Yet, the 
Yale College Programs of Study states that 
the residential colleges are intended to 
be "more than living quarters; they are 
small communities of men and 
women, whose members know one 
another well and learn from each 
other." If the philosophy behind the 
college system is incompatible with the 
outlook of fraternities, should the 
administrators use their legitimate 
power to protect campus ideals? After 
all, some argue that if Yale were to 
announce a policy prohibiting the 
formation of fraternities, prospective 
students would have the right to apply 
to other colleges where the Greek 
system is considered welcome. 

While they recognize that the college 
system is undergoing a period of 
transition, Yale's administrators 
remain confident. 
"I think 
the 
residential college system runs the 
danger of losing cohesiveness and 
attractiveness," Wilkinson said. "Yet, 
there's a great deal more that can be 
done in·the colleges. We need masters 
and deans with imagination and time 
to serve as facilitators." Dean Suttle 
believes in the ability of Yale students 
and faculty to find alternatives to the 
"beer and tapes" parties of the past. "I 
would be surprised to learn that 
fraternities are any great threat to the 
residential college system. There have 
always been groups of students who 
live off-campus-some 500 each year," 
he explained. "I think the college 
system is a viable, vigorous experience 
that most students will not forego to 
live in a fraternity house on Lake 
Place." 

Dean Wilkinson views the renewed


**The Rise of Fraternities at Yale**
**Author: Tamar Lehrich**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Pete Smvl, MC know any of the Zeta P si members before he rushed, be's now.president to live in the house next year. reality. Others only hope that apart from othef ' fraternities. The fraternitie~ won't become so popular that freshmen will feel pressured to join. · Adam Reeder, PC '87, didn't even consider frats when applying to college. Yet, he joined Kappa Sigma last year and considers the growth of fraternities at Yale to be a positive development-the wave of the future. "For me, Kappa Sigma provides encouragement in all the things I do," he said. "It doesn't displace things but enhances them. I always wanted to do community service, and I needed a push." Reeder feels frustrated with the attitudes most Yale students have in regard to fraternities. "Kappa Sigma is a whole lot more than a good party. It's a group of people who feel a close relationship and wanted to do something for the community and the university as well as for ourselves. I've met so many brothers that I never would have met." 

On April 12, 1985, the Yale chapter of Kappa Sigma became a colony, signifying a trial period when a group of students indicate to the national chapter that they'd like to become a fraternity. In order to get their charter, the members of Kappa Sigma had to complete five community service projects, one of the aspects that sets it very admini'strative- bureaucratic friendships, not natural but forced interplay. They're trying to creaU a brotherhood." 

The Greek system does provide its members with an organized structure for creating a social network, but what about the Yale student who does not want to feel pressured into joining a fraternity or sorority? What viable alternatives will there be for next year's freshman class? Though students have been asking for some sort of center for years, it seems as though one won't be materializing in the near future. "In effect we do have a student center . . . CCL!" Wilkinson said, laughing. "Ten or fifteen years ago we did try to have one in a corner of Commons, but it flopped; it was a much larger and more sophisticated version of Durfee's- a disaster," he explained. "The more ideal thing-pie in the sky-would be a centrally-located facility, the home for the hundreds of student organizations. Then students would have a purpose for going there. It's a remote possibility right now, for lack of space and funding, but I'm convinced that anything that's a good idea will happen eventually." 

In the fall of 1984, when several students got together and decided to found Sigma Nu, they were not interested in waiting for the appearance of Yale's "eventual" student center. Today, with approximately 60 members. the fraternity leases a house on Lake Place. John Miles, DC '88, a Sigma Nu brother, imagined what Yale will be like in five years. "I see more fraternities-a whole row of them behind the gym. It's close to campus and the houses are affordable." He paused for a moment, beginning to smile. "There will be a bunch of frat parties every weekend instead of a few SAC parties like there used to be. If the administration continues not to have any social events on campus, Lake Place will become Yale's new social center." 

Tamar Lehrich is managing editor <ifTNJ.


**Title: Opening Doors**
**Author: Jennifer Lee**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
If you smile at Elizabeth Shieldkret, 
CC '88, when you pass her in the 
street, don't be offended if she doesn't 
smile back. Shieldkret hasn't snubbed 
you, she just hasn't seen you. When 
people greet her, she admitted, "I 
recognize them from their voices, not 
their faces." At first glance Shieldkret 
looks like any other knapsack-carrying 
student on campus, wearing a sweater 
and jeans. But if you look closely you 
might notice that behind the thick, 
rose-tinted lenses and bifocals of her 
glasses, Shieldkret's brown eyes aren't 
focusing directly on anything. Most 
people don't look closely, however, so 
when Shiedkret tells people that she's 
legally blind, they're usually surprised. 
"I always tell them jokingly, 'Don't set-
tle for imitations, because there are il-
legally blind people out there,'" she ex-
plained. Turned pensively towards the 
sky she added, "Sometimes they even 
seem shocked and pull away; it takes 
them a while to get used to the idea 
that I am a handicapped person. While 
J>e<>ple at Yale are growing more aware 
of the problems of blacks and gays and 
Other minorities on campus because of 
all the organizations, forums and 
publicity, I don't think most people 
even realize that there are also disabled 
people here." 


Last November Shieldkret and other 
members of the Yale community 
gathered in the new Resource Office 
for Students with Disabilities located 
on Wall Street. They were there to 
form an organization that finally gave 
voice to the 19 disabled students on 
campus. While particular disabilities 
of the students at the meeting ranged 
from dyslexia to deafness to muscular 
dystrophy, each one shared a desire to 
have the buildings on campus made 
physically accessible and to provide the 
general Yale population with 
information on 
the 
handicapp~d. 
They also desired to have recreational, 
academic and cultural programs made 
fully available to them- those same 
programs that non-disabled students 
take for granted. Hence, members at 
the meeting embraced Shieldkret's sug-
gestion that the organization be called 
EASY or Equal Access for Students at 
Yale. 


"Our motto is, 'A disability does not 
have to be a handicap,'" said Rosette 
Liberman, shaking her head. As 
Assistant Director of the Resource 
Office 
for 
Disabilities, 
Liberman 
brings the same idealistic fervency to 
the cause of the disabled that she once 
gave to the Civil Rights Movement 
during the 1950's. "The word 'handi-
cap' has negative connotations implying 
limitations," Liberman said. 
She 
believes 
that 
student 
insens1t1vtty 
towards the physically d isabled is 
rooted in ignorance, and that once 
they are made more aware, the non-
disabled will become more helpful and 
cooperative. 


At the meeting, Liberman proposed 
that increased awareness of the dis-
abled on campus would also encourage 
Yale administrators to accelerate and 
expand their existing programs. In en-
thusiastic agreement, several students 
began speaking at once, debating the 
utility of table tents, posters and bake-
sales to promote awareness. "Excuse 
me, everyone," interrupted Dean Rita 
Brackman, who, as Chairperson of the 
University Advisory Committee for 
Disabilities, has already been sensi-
tized to the problems of the disabled. 
"Everyone, please talk facing Mary 
Schulze, who's deaf and reads lips." 
Brackman went on to explain the ad-
ministration's policy. "We are address-
ing as many aspects of disabled





--- Page 38 ---

While Y~e'1 disabled are gaining physical access to university bulldinga, they continue to aeek wider acceptance to the student 
commu01ty. 
students' lives as are brought to our at-
grafted onto the Rehabilitation Act the 
tention and trying to meet their needs. 
Section 504 regulation which man-
Ultimately, our goal is to be able to 
dated that federally-supported insti-
provide an equal experience at Yale for 
tutions make their programs accessible 
the disabled. While Yale has had a slow 
or risk loss of financial aid. In 1979, 
start and some things are just begin-
the first undergraduate with a full 
ning, we have come a long way in t?e disability entered Yale. 
past year and a half." To make tts 
According to Margit Dahl, assistant 
buildings accessible to wheelchair director at the Yale Admissions Office, 
users, Yale has spent 1.8 million a disabled student's application is 
dollars since 1976, adding ramps, judged in the same way as any other 
handrails and wheelchair lifts, as well applicant's. "The fact that they are 
as altering doorways, elevators and disabled does enter the discussion, but 
bedroom and toilet facilities. 
its significance varies from case to 
Last year's opening of the Resource 
case," she said, pausing for a moment 
Office and the formation of EASY 
before continuing. "Whether the 
reflect Yale student and administration 
university can 
accomodate the 
efforts to knock down architectural and 
student's disability, however, is not a 
attitudinal barriers preventing the 
factor of consideration. We are not 
disabled from entering the mainstream 
under any pressure to admit disabled 
of the college community. Although 
students." It seems that the reason why 
the 1973 Rehabilitation Act prohibited 
there are so few disabled stuaents at 
discrimination against otherwise 
Yale is that not many apply. Brackman 
qualified persons with disabilities, it 
added, "Although Yale does not 
lacked any regulations to enforce its 
discriminate against the disabled in ad-
implementation. Thus, the movement 
missions, it lacks an active recruitment 
to make the campus accessible to the 
program that would make the disabled 
disabled did not effectively begin until 
person feel welcome here." 
1978. At this time, the government 
Indeed, the prospect of overcoming 
38 The New Journal/April 18, 1986 
architectural and attitudinal barriers is 
intimidating. David Heaton, GRD 
'91, had the high grades and test scores 
enabling him to get through the door of 
admissions at the Yale Graduate 
School. Yet, once he arrived on 
campus, Heaton found that the doors 
of many classrooms, bathrooms and 
dining halls were too narrow to get 
through in a 
wheelchair. 
Heaton 
started using a wheelchair three years 
ago after he began law school at the 
University of Cahtorma. "Most 
mobility-disabled don't apply to Yale 
because there are just too many 
architectural barriers and bad 
weather," said H eaton, unfolding his 
arms for a moment to reveal the word 
"California" on his orange t-shirt. 
"Instead, they go to college campuses 
in California that are newer and 
therefore 
built 
to 
be 
wheelchair-
accessible." 
Because Yale was built when 
disabled people were out of sight and 
therefore out of the minds of the 
architects 
who 
planned 
its 
construction, 
the campus poses 
numerous obstacles. All buildings on 


**Title: Yale's Accessibility Issues for Wheelchair Users**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Old Campus and the Yale residential 
colleges are inaccessible to wheel-chair 
users. The only exceptions are 
McClellan Hall on Old Campus, 
Davenport College and Morse 
College. 

Students in wheelchairs 
cannot pick up their mail at Yale 
Station, listen to concerts at Sprague 
Hall, or attend language classes at 
William Harkness Hall. Woodbridge 
Hall, Cross Campus Library, and SSS 
are other frequented buildings at Yale 
that are either completely inaccessible 
by wheel-chair or accessible only via 
complicated routes. 

For wheelchair user Ann Kohanski, 
DC '88, Yale's architectural barriers 
have had serious ramifications. As a 
freshman, she was separated from the 
rest of her class on Old Campus and 
forced to live in Davenport College. 

Each semester Kohanski misses the 
opportunity to explore classes during 
"shopping period" because she must 
submit her schedule one month earlier 
so that her classes can be placed in 
wheel-chair accessible locations. 

Nonetheless, Kohanski is pleased that 
the administration has relocated classes 
and provided other accommodations, 
such as a van equipped with a 
wheelchair lift; 
this service saves 
Kohanski, a Molecular Biophysics and 
Biochemistry major, 
from over-
exerting herself by climbing science 
hill. 

For one disabled student, attending 
Yale has been positive in light of her 
past experiences. Iorijoko, TO '89, sat 
in a large leather armchair overlooking 
the courtyard, her feet barely touching 
the floor. Joko's words sounded 
muffied and unclear due to the cere-
bral palsy that damaged the part of 
Joko's brain that controls movement, 
speech and hearing. A graduate of a 
Catholic boarding school in California, 
Joko has achieved a straight-A record 
during her first year at Yale. Although 
she is from japan, she decided to study 
in the United States because Japan 
lacks academically challenging pro-
grams for the disabled. She also 
believes that attitudes here towards the 
disabled are more tolerant that they 
loriJoko, TD '89, baa learned to deal with her handicap: "I've gotten used to working 
harder to do everything everybody else does with ease." 

The New Journal/April 18, 1986 39 


**The Disabled at Yale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40-42**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Her knapsack also contains a small tape recorder, a magnifying glass and a mini-telescope.
are in Japan. "In the United States, the attitude is that the individual is most important, whereas in Japan, the em· phasis is placed on society. It is part of the Japanese character that if you deviate from accepted standards, then you are an outcast," Joko said. "I have been told, 'People like you should stay at home.' When I was a little girl in Japan, the other children wouldn't ac· cept me because I was different- because I couldn't speak well and move well, they thought I was stupid." 

Nevertheless, because of the historical isolation of the disabled, most people at Yale know little about their strengths and weaknesses, which often results in discrimination and alienation of the disabled person from the rest of the community. "What's the use of being able to get to a party," Shieldkret said, "if once you get there no one talks to you?" Non-disabled people often feel uncomfortable and embarrassed around the disabled, particularly those with visible handicaps. When Margaret Chisholm, reference librarian at the law school, broke her leg and began using crutches to move around, she struggled not only with the heavy manual elevator gates where she works, but also with a deep sense of loneliness. "There was a real difference in the expressions of people in the street when it was not clear whether my disability was temporary or not," Chisholm explained. "When I was on two crutches, it was obvious that my disability was temporary; strangers on the street would look at me and nod with an expression that seemed to say, 'Too bad.' But when I used one crutch or a cane, a lot of people acted as if I had a permanent disability. Strangers in the street tended to look away from me as if I should be invisible." 

The disabled must battle not only against false stereotyping but also against patronizing attitudes. "People ask me, 'How can you be at Yale if you are dyslexic?'" said David Chrisman, PC '86. "There is a stereotype of dyslexics being dumb. Actually, dyslexia is a disorder of information processing and memory storage in the brain and has nothing to do with level of intelligence." Mary Schulze, SY '87, said strongly, "Sometimes people can be overy overprotective. They'll decide to take me under their wing and treat me like a child. They'll assume I haven't heard anything at all and answer for me instead of aJlowing me to answer for myself." 

Increased contact and information make the non-disabled more sensitive to the needs of the disabled so that the disability-not the person-becomes diminished. George Loebach, DC '87, Ann Kohanski's roommate, explained, "While other people just dash across the street, Ann always has to look for a ramp on the sidewalk. As a result, I think Ann has a lot more patience than most people and she's willing to fight for things." She paused. "I don't think of Ann as different, as a handicapped person. I just think of her as 'Ann'- someone who's short, has curly brown hair and likes to ride horses. I never think of treating her any differently from any of my other friends, and Ann certainly doesn't ask for special kid-glove treatment." Laura Teodosio, MC '86, described the first time she met Kohanski. "I felt a little self-conscious, scared that I might offend her with a thoughtless word or reaction.'' Yet, Teodosio found her own stereotypes and prejudgments quickly shattered after getting to know Kohanski. "She was very self· sufficient," Teodosio admitted. "She doesn't use her handicap as a crutch and only asks for help when physical barriers prevent her from doing something. herself." 

Last year, a volunteer group formed


**Title:  A Dishonorable History**
**Author: Lenny Picker**
**Page number(s): 44-45**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Joining the Club: A History of Jews and Yale by Dan A. Oren Yale University Press, 1986 440 pages, $29.95
For a week in the fall of 1980, the front and editorial pages of the Yale Daily News (YDN) were dominated by a heated exchange over accusations of anti-Semitism at Yale: "Yale callous to Jews, Wolf says in sermon," "Goldstein, Giamatti, alumnus deny rabbi's charges of anti-Semitism," "Yale Jews debate Wolf allegations." Hillel Director and Jewish Chaplain Arnold Jacob Wolf sparked the controversy by his remarks at the last Yom Kippur service he presided over at Yale. The YDN quoted Wolf as condemning a "long and dishonorable history of anti-Semitism at Yale," as well as a continuing insensitivity to Jewish concerns. While there is good reason to suspect the YDN of presenting a skewed picture of the substance and focus of Wolfs statements, the initial article fueled numerous responses, and the dispute made its way into The New York Times. Yale Professors Harold Bloom and John Hollander added their views to the controversy in a letter to the YDN: It is our judgment as jewish members of the Yale faculty that there is no basis in reality for any of [Wolf's) allegations. Nothing is more irresponsible or harmful than totally unwarranted and unsupported accusations of anti-Semitism. Rather than refute point by point Rabbi Wolrs list of complaints or particularize his falsehoods, which might seem to give weight to such foolish fancies, we prefer to observe that his performance was totally at variance with the best traditions of the rabbinate. Anyone still sharing Bloom and Hollander's views regarding Yale's past should read Dan A. Oren'sjoining the Club: A History of Jews and Yale, published last February. Dr. Oren, '79, Medical School '84 and currently a post-doctoral fellow in psychiatry, meticulously documents Yale's treatment of Jewish applicants, students and faculty, from the university's humble beginnings as a small Congregationalist seminary to the present day. After nearly a decade of probing through Yale archives and extensive interviewing of past and present members of the university community, Oren has uncovered irrefutable proof that Yale does indeed have in its closet, as Rabbi Wolf claimed, "a long and dishonorable history of anti-Semitism."


joining the Club has resonance beyond Yale's confines; it may be the most thorough study of restrictive admissions towards Jews in existence, and the evolution it traces of the Yale Administration's attitudes towards Jews and other minorities parallels a similar progression in American society. While Oren clearly focuses on Yale, he often refers to analogous policies and postures on the part of fellow Ivy League institutions and shows that the infection of Yale by racism was not an isolated case, but a more virulent one. Indeed, it is to Yale's lasting shame that it was the last Ivy school to abandon its primitive quota system.


As an undergraduate Oren was active in Jewish life on campus, serving on the Board of Yale Hillel and on the search committee for Rabbi Wolf's successor. A sophomore year class on American Jewish history started his exploration of Yale's admissions policies regarding Jews. His term paper for the course mushroomed into a senior essay, which in turn became the basis for his book.


joining the Club divides Yale history into three sections: 1701-1878, 1878-1941 and 1941-1977. For each period, Oren examines the numbers and status of Jews in the student body, faculty and administration, their feelings regarding their Yale experiences and the views towards them held by the university at large.


According to Oren, through 1878Jews at Yale experienced relatively little anti-Semitism: ... scholarly achievement continued to be a hallmark of the Jewish students in the college. Few in number, the Jewish boys were an accepted part of the campus community. The presence of students of all leading religious denominations and the permission that Yale granted for all students to attend the Sabbath religious services of their choice were sources of pride to the college faculty. In the last quarter of the 19th century, prejudice against .J~ws at Yale increased, concomitant both with the increase in societal anti-Semitism and an alteration in the character of Yale. Contemporary students unfamiliar with Yale history might be surprised at the very different atmosphere that prevailed 60 to 80 years ago. According to Oren, " ... academic effort came to be placed well below the pedestal of an all-absorbing extra-curricular life of sport and snobbery. Throughout the country, learning and good grades had become unfashionable while social status dominated student energies." In this new Yale, the quintessential sign of success was membership in a secret society or fraternity.


Joining the Club reveals that, by the 1920s, Yale had shifted to a policy of restrictive admissions known as "Limitation of Numbers." in effect a 10 percent quota on accepted Jewish applicants. Yale adminstrators involved in formulating and implementing this policy indict themselves in correspondence and memoranda which Oren uncovered. The author is scrupulously even-handed in his presentation of these materials, often pointing out where a formal policy or harsh statement was mitigated in practice.


Even with this balance, however, a disturbing picture emerges. In 1922 Dean of Freshmen Roswell Angier viewed Jewish students on the whole as "personally and socially unacceptable" and "more or less in the nature of a foreign body in the class organism." In 1918 Yale College Dean Frederick Sheetz Jones feared that the "Jewish element ... will overrun us." After Jewish students won "every single scholarship of value," Jones proposed a "ban on Jews." Such insensitivity and racism penetrated to the highest levels. In 1933 University President James Rowland Angell ( 1921-193 7) jokingly suggested to the chairman of admissions that a pogrom might be the answer to Yale's Jewish problem: am extremely interested in the Hebraic record which you are kind enough to send me. The oscillations from year to year are rather larger than I would have expected. In any case, the material is very informing, and it seems quite clear that, if we could have an Armenian massacre confined to the New Haven district, with occasional incursions into Bridgeport and Hartford, we might protect our Nordic stock almost completely.


Oren discloses that anticipation of Nazi intentions was not limited to a chance comment by Angell. In a letter found by Oren in his research, a Yale faculty member is quoted as having said, "If there are Jews who want to go to college, let them go to Harvard. Let Hitler be Harvard's president. He'll take care of them." Compatible sentiments echoed from the student body and alumni. In addition, Oren finds that discrimination against Jewish applicants was also manifested at the medical school, which was, ironically, under the stewardship of Dean Milton Winternitz, a Jew. And those Jewish students who were accepted faced numerous barriers to successful integration into college life. For example, an alumni committee composed entirely of non-Jews charged that Yale coaches "consistently kept out Jewish athletes, thereby hurting team performance."


Rectification of Yale's anti-Semitic policies was long in coming. Oren identifies two major factors in the shift of attitudes towards Jews throughout the Yale community. The development of the residential college system was a conscious effort at social integration, and the Second World War, which starkly demonstrated the price of racism, was followed by the spread of the doctrine of meritocracy. President A. Whitney Griswold (1950-63), prodded by Hillel Director Richard J. Israel, University Chaplain William Sloane Coffin and influential alumnus William Horowitz, was . instrumental in effecting the changes in the Yale admissions process that led in the 1960s to the lifting of the "Limitation of Numbers" policy, years after other Ivy League institutions had done so. Oren does touch upon evolving Yale perceptions of other non-Protestant minorities, but he clearly states how the problems of Jews differed: "In contradistinction to other ethnic and minority groups, Jews became an issue at Yale (and elsewhere) in the twentieth century because so many of them achieved intellectual success


**Review: Joining the Club**
**Author: Lenny Picker**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Joining the Club: How Jews Became Part of Yale by Steven M. Oren.  Before 1910 Yale's attitude towards Jewish students was at best indifferent.  "In the 1920s," Oren writes, "the Yale Corporation resolved to continue its policy of numerical limitation on Jews."  The quota system remained in effect until the mid-1960s, and its legacy has proven hard to erase.  "In the course of his research," Oren finds that "Yale's anti-Semitism was not simply a matter of institutional policy; it was also a part of the prevailing campus ethos."  Dr. Oren has written a detailed and fascinating account of a time when Jewish students faced restrictions on their access to education.  His study shows that the exclusion of Jewish students from Yale was not merely an administrative process; it was a symptom of prevailing campus attitudes and social realities.  The author notes, "Even once the numerical restrictions were lifted, Jewish students still had to prove themselves worthy of admission and acceptance." They were subjected to rigorous evaluations and standards, exceeding those imposed on their non-Jewish peers.  This rigorous standard persisted even after the quotas were lifted, demonstrating a lingering element of bias that impacted both admission and the broader campus climate.  This book exposes the inherent tension between academic success and social acceptance experienced by Jewish students at Yale, highlighting the systematic barriers and prejudice they confronted.  These barriers often extended even after academic achievements, with Jewish students needing to exceed expectations


The author points out that the book highlights the gap between the academic achievements of Jewish students and the social acceptance they received at Yale.  He underscores the diligence Dr. Oren displayed in unveiling this unpleasant aspect of Yale's history.  This book demonstrates how the institution's policies and campus climate contributed to the challenges faced by Jewish students and the systemic barriers to their full integration.  The book successfully illustrates that neutrality towards the prejudices of previous generations is unacceptable and akin to disregarding contemporary manifestations of such biases.  It's clear the author believes that while Yale boasts of leadership, its history demonstrates that not all initiatives it spearheaded were morally sound.  The author emphasizes that Yale in 1986 is far more welcoming to Jewish students and faculty. The recent amendments to the Yale Corporation bylaws that opened the door for a Rabbi to be considered as the University Chaplain and the President's active support for the Judaic Studies program, are cited as examples of improvements.  However, the author also points to remaining sensitivity gaps, such as occasional instances of faculty being unaccommodating to religious Jews needing exam extensions.  The author concludes that the overall atmosphere for Jewish students is improved, but this should not cause complacency and that it's vital to remember Yale’s past.



<br/>

**Afterthought**
**Author: Heinrich Von Staden**
**Page number(s): 47**

A Time for Conversation
Time for you and time for me, And time yet for a hundred 
indecisions, And for a hundred visions and revisions, Before 
the taking of a toast and tea. 
-T.S. Eliot

Afterthought? Not in an Epimethean sense, I trust. The 
years as Master have not prepared me for afterthoughts, 
especially not while the "after," though imminent, still lies 
ahead. But I welcome the invitation to comment on an 
aspect of the experience. 

As an 
experiment 
in education outside the 
classroom- a frequently unobtrusive education that 
occurs in a dazzling range of modes and contexts- the 
residential colleges represent an indubitable success. The 
greatest achievement of the colleges is, however, also their 
most fragile and endangered. I don't mean out-celebrated 
specimens of architectural 
mimesis, 
but cultural 
intercourse and intellectual discourse. 

Twenty-five years ago Richard B. Sewall, professor of 
English and the distinguished first Master of Ezra Stiles 
College, said: "This . . . is the noblest work of these 
colleges: to facilitate conversation- the meeting of mind 
with mind, person with person. Young with young, old 
with old, and (hardest of all) young with old." This 
"noblest work" of the colleges is their most fragile 
tradition. When not tactfully nurtured, it withers faster 
than most other features of the system. 

Conversation of "young with old" and "old with old" 
(the "old" often being quite young) in the colleges is not in 
a phase of high energy or high art. Over the last two 
decades, conversations between faculty fellows and 
students, and fellows and fellows, 
have dwindled 
drastically. In the fall of 1965, 637 fellows took 19,896 
meals in the twelve colleges; in the fall term of 1985, only 
416 fellows took a mere 2,466 meals in the colleges-a 
decrease of 87.6 percent in these opportunities for 
informal interaction between faculty and students, faculty 
and faculty, in our colleges. (Occasionally we recuperate 
fragments of what we've lost: I treasure, for example, the 
weekly Monday lunches of the Ezra Stiles faculty Fellows, 
at which we take turns giving informal talks about our 
research.) Even more disheartening are the statistics for 
junior faculty: a decrease of 95.44 percent from 1965 to 
1985 in college meals taken by junior faculty. This is but 
one way of quantifying the massive withering of a faculty 
presence in the colleges. 

The intellectual and social texture of our residential 
college communities has suffered accordingly. Informal 
cross-disciplinary exchange between faculty, though it 
continues in other, more structured forums, 
has 
diminished, and our mission of facilitating, inter alia, the 
more difficult kind of conversation, of old with young, has 
been significantly hobbled. 

The reasons for the reduced faculty presence in the 
colleges probably are numerous, and I who live in the fifth 
century B.C. -a mere visitor in the twentieth-won't 
pretend to fathom them. The reduction and then, in 
1980, elimination of college meal privileges for faculty 
played a role, but I suspect a more complex process of 
alienation has been at work, especially in the lives of 
junior faculty. President Giamatti and Provost Brainard 
deserve the warmest thanks of all who care about the 
colleges and about intellectual exchange at Yale for their 
recent decision to restore limited meal privileges to Yale 
College junior faculty, effective next fall. It is a significant 
exhortation. But it should be only the beginning of a 
multi-dimensional and, indeed, daunting, yet necessary, 
process of social and intellectual recuperation- necessary, 
if the colleges are to realize more fully their extraordinary 
potential. 

I hasten to affirm that the "conversation of young with 
young" in the colleges is flourishing. I suspect the students 
don't need help, but like others I have tried to flood Ezra 
Stiles with a variety of shared cultural experiences, and to 
encourage intellectual, artistic, and personal exploration 
within the discreet, supportive, informality of our college 
community. Even the trifling domesticities we foster-a 
shared cup of coffee, 
the casual studybreak 
exchange- seem to help weave contexts hospitable to the 
sharing of those hundred indecisions, visions, and 
revisions. 

Occasionally our larger college community too realizes 
much of its potential, and when it does, Diotima's 
response to Socrates' question, "What, then, is eros?" 
appears to be instantiated multiplicatively: "Eros is 
something that interprets (hermmeuon) and ferries back 
and forth ... and, being an intermediary between two, 
eros fully fills both, so that in itself all is bound together 
. . . and through it all social intercourse and all 
conversation exist . . . . " 

"Master" often is but a euphemistic metaphor for 
"slave," but the continuing, though embattled presence of 
conversation in the colleges has allowed my service 
(servitium > serous) to be aptly described by Plato's 
oxymoron 
l. coinage dhekl-douleio., "voluntary slavery." 

The remarkable students and fellows of the college have 
thoroughly ensured that my service was animated not 
only by joy and love, but above all by a steady, though far 
from metrical, pulse of enriching conversations. I 
fervently hope this fragile joy will be vigorously protected 
and tactfully nurtured and enhanced by our institution. 

• 
Heinrich von Staden, Professor of Classics and Comparative 
Literature, is returning to full-time teaching and research after six 
years as Master of Ezra Stiles College.




$20,565 contributed to +HM~i-'HIIIIA 
$18,998 previous QCF re,QW'Q. 
$22,2fP In pledges to tha':;!tl988 
(an 8o/o 1ocrease 
tnaf or~liWictU&

