Publication date: February 2016
Volume: 48
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD:**
- editors-in-chief: maya averbuch, caroline sydney
- managing editor: isabelle taft
- senior editors: hayley byrnes, kendrick mcdonald, lara sokoloff
- associate editors: ruby bilger, joyce guo, libbie katsev, elena saavedra buckley
- copy editors: douglas plume, spencer bokat-lindell
- design editors: ivy sanders schneider, edward wang
- illustrators: katie colford, ivy sanders schneider, edward wang
- photo editor: jennifer lu
- web designer: mariah xu
- web developer: philippe chlenski
- board of directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- CHECKING INTO LIMBO - Elena Saavedra Buckley
- points of departure - Eliza Fawcett
- MANAGEMENT IN A MASON JAR - Amelia Nierenberg
- DIALING FOR THE DETAINED - Victorio Cabrera
- MISPRONUNCIATIONS - Jake Orbison
- QUALITY TIME - Jennifer Gersten
- WHEN YALE MOVES IN - Natalie Yang
- REEL TALK - Ruby Bilger
- PICKLE JAR APOLOGY - Charlotte Ferenbach
- AUTISM AT YALE - Clara Collier
- #SPIRITSQUAD - Azeezat Adeleke


**Title: CHECKING INTO LIMBO**
**Author: Elena Saavedra Buckley**
**Page number(s): 20**

Tenants of New Haven’s most derelict 

affordable housing face an uncertain future


**Title: points of departure**
**Author: Eliza Fawcett**
**Page number(s): 4**

Yale’s Secret Chef


**Title: MANAGEMENT IN A MASON JAR**
**Author: Amelia Nierenberg**



**Title: DIALING FOR THE DETAINED**
**Author: Victorio Cabrera**



**Title: MISPRONUNCIATIONS**
**Author: Jake Orbison**
**Page number(s): 9**


**Title: QUALITY TIME**
**Author: Jennifer Gersten**
**Page number(s): 12**


**Title: WHEN YALE MOVES IN**
**Author: Natalie Yang**
**Page number(s): 16**

Has the Yale Homebuyer Program become a publicity stunt?


**Title: REEL TALK**
**Author: Ruby Bilger**
**Page number(s): 28**

The man behind Yale’s screenings reviews the future of film


**Title: PICKLE JAR APOLOGY**
**Author: Charlotte Ferenbach**
**Page number(s): 32**


**Title: AUTISM AT YALE**
**Author: Clara Collier**
**Page number(s): 33**

Navigating the limits of the University’s support


**Title: #SPIRITSQUAD**
**Author: Azeezat Adeleke**
**Page number(s): 36**



**Title: Yale’s Secret Chef**
**Author: Eliza Fawcett**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The magician slowly slices the grapefruit in half 
with a large knife. He pries the halves apart, juice 
running down his hands. Wedged in the center of 
the grapefruit is a dollar bill, which he was holding 
just seconds before. The audience around the table 
applauds, enjoying the opening act of a nightlong din-
ner spectacle. Alone in the kitchen, the chef and mas-
termind of the evening quietly prepares the first course 
of the meal. 

Every Friday night, junior Abdel Morsy cooks an 
elaborate dinner for twelve people. Sometimes the 
invitees know each other; often they do not. For one 
evening, they sit around a gleaming wood table at what 
Morsy calls “The Sticker Shop.” (The location, he 
insists, must be kept secret.) 

Morsy doesn’t formally promote The Sticker Shop—
it’s a purely word-of-mouth phenomenon. He invites 
most people personally, but others email him in the 
hope of getting a seat at his table. He’s also invited his 
Uber drivers, train conductors, and barber. 

The premise of The Sticker Shop is that guests pay 
not for a meal, but for an intricate sticker that Morsy’s 
graphic design team creates each week. It’s a way to 
avoid the legal restrictions of being a restaurant, but 
Morsy says that it’s also the celebration of an art form 
“as lowly as the sticker.” His humble stickers certainly 
aren’t cheap—each has a “suggested donation” of 
twenty to sixty dollars, though Morsy is willing to take a 
loss per head if someone cannot pay in full.

The food is the centerpiece of the project but not 
its essence. “Every artistic expression is valid at the 
dinner table,” Morsy says. Each night begins with a 
short performance—music, magic, or another art form. 
The magician performing the grapefruit trick was 
a Yale student and a friend of Morsy’s from the Yale  
Magic Society. 

A square of votive candles flickers in the middle of 
the table. Behind me, a white floor-to-ceiling bookshelf 
holds elegantly arranged objects: knuckles of ginger, a 
row of glowing onions, two packages of ramen noodles, 
an army of white ceramic bottles, a hefty pumpkin, a 
lone jar of anchovies. On the other side of the room, 
Morsy is bent over the kitchen counter. He is a flurry of 
motion, whirling from stove to sink to fridge, and then 
utterly still, garnishing a row of twelve identical soups. 
He does not look up as the magic show continues, 
but silently concentrates on the work before him. He 
has an intense air—eyes framed by round tortoise-shell 
glasses, a dark beard and moustache, hair pulled back 
into a tight bun—and an obsessive zeal about his work 
at The Sticker Shop. “If I fuck up a dish on Friday, all 
Saturday I’m redoing that dish,” he says. “I’ve pulled 
all-nighters cooking during exam period.” 

He talks about his work at The Sticker Shop with 
gravitas. “We’re challenging the conventions of a din-
ner,” he announces as he welcomes guests. He describes 
The Sticker Shop with the language of a self-fashioned 
foodie out to make a mark: “collective artistry,” “radical 
localism,” and the creation of “memorable experiences 
of the highest standard.” The endeavor is all Morsy does 
outside of classes. “Not just a project,” he declares, but 
the thing to which he wants to commit his life.

I first heard of Morsy via a friend who raved about 
a dinner “an upperclassman” had prepared on a 
weekend retreat for the Urban Improvement Corps—
another of Morsy’s extravagant meals. For the next few 
weeks, I heard bits and pieces about a mysterious Yalie 
who made restaurant-quality dinners at an off-campus 
apartment. Eventually I tracked him down, and at his 
request we met at Blue State late one night. I circled 
the place a few times before a man who had been 
sitting near the door pulled off the hood of his Baja 
hoodie and I realized it was Morsy. 

Morsy studies cognitive science at Yale but has been 
cooking seriously since he was a teenager. Originally 
from Alexandria, Egypt, he has worked at an array 
of restaurants, most recently at an izakaya in Japan. 
During a gap year before college, he struck an unusual 
deal with families in over fifty homes around the world 
using the travel site Couchsurfing: if they let him stay 
for a few nights, he would make them an extraordinary 
meal. Working with whatever appliances and resources 
were available, he “adapted very quickly to constraint.”

At The Sticker Shop, he has “two working burners, 
not even a standard-size sink, [and] a half-size fridge,” 
but also his magician’s flair for making “something out 
of nothing.” The limited set enhances the drama of his 
dinner-as-performance.  

The first course arrives: a covered white ceramic pot 
beside a hunk of homemade baguette on a wooden 
platter. I open the lid to find a roasted pepper soup. 
We all suspend conversation as we dip our bread. The 
soup appears simple, but Morsy reveals that it’s made 
from thirteen vegetables, including a ghost pepper. 
The soup is smooth and sweet until I taste its powerful 
spicy kick and have to rip off another piece of bread.

Out comes the second course: soy-braised pork belly 
with a caramel-miso-cinnamon glaze, served with 
a pickled vegetable and pear slaw and paired with a 
Goose Island wheat ale.

As we dig into the tender pork, happy groans echo 
around the table. “Every meal after this is not going 
to be the same!” someone laments. Morsy glances up 
from the kitchen and grins, filling fluted glasses with 
mango lassi provided by The Lassi Bar, a Yale startup.

Morsy ferries out the third course: long black 
boards with truffle arancini (risotto balls) served on a 
smear of spinach puree. By the time the next course 
arrives—dry-aged rib-eye with a red wine and raspberry 
reduction sauce—it seems impossible to eat more.  
But we do.

As the hours pass, our conversations grow louder and 
more animated and the votive candles go out one by 
one. In a dark corner of the kitchen, Morsy sweeps a 
blowtorch over a row of glass jars, toasting marshmal-
lows for desert. Four hours into the dinner, his concen-
tration is as intense as ever. Though working only a few 
feet from the table, he exists in another world.

For the final course, we are served “Dirt” in glass 
jars: a rum- and coffee-based chocolate mousse, topped 
with salty, hot figs and a homemade marshmallow 
infused with white chocolate liqueur and chestnuts.

Around midnight, the dinner winds to a close. Morsy 
is weary but radiant. “If you Google ‘runner,’ the third 
suggestion is ‘runner’s high,’” he says. “If you type in 
‘chef,’ there’s no ‘chef’s high.’ But I run, and I know the 
chef’s high is so real.” The fervor is a little much, but 
his pride is genuine. 

The Sticker Shop flips the dynamic of an ordinary 
restaurant, in which servers bring out dishes to patrons 
who will never meet the chef, never witness the sweat 
and imagination behind the meal. Here, Morsy is the 
star, and even when he’s quietly removed from his 
audience, it’s impossible to forget this. “How do you 
know Abdel?” people ask as their plates are cleared 
each round. 
— Eliza Fawcett is a freshman 
in Jonathan Edwards College. 
Morsy is the star,  
and even when he’s 
quietly removed from 
his audience, 
it’s impossible to 
forget this. 


<br>

**Title: Dialing for the Detained**
**Author: Victorio Cabrera**
**Page number(s): 6**

When two groups of Yale Law students arrived in 
Dilley and Karnes, Texas, in the spring of 2015, the 
detention centers they saw housed over two thousand 
asylum seekers. The people inside were overwhelm-
ingly women and children fleeing rising violence in 
Central America’s Northern Triangle, and the volun-
teers intended to help them stay in the United States. 
They were there to conduct interviews, to ask the fam-
ilies what they had experienced that would help them 
win their cases in front of a government judge. 

Swapna Reddy LAW ’16 described the first center 
she visited as a “jail made out of trailers.” The Yale Law 
students saw asylum seekers locked twelve to a room in 
crowded cells. They talked to mothers whose children 
had vomited for several days straight; when they asked 
for assistance, the center’s medical staff prescribed 
more water. Many of the pro-bono lawyers working at 
Dilley, Reddy told me, called it “baby jail.” They set 
up makeshift offices to record women’s informal tes-
timonies about their persecution while their children 
watched cartoons or made up games about court pro-
ceedings, miming the lawyers.  

The detention centers at Karnes and Dilley have 
been criticized for their bleak conditions. The govern-
ment’s response is that it had to deal quickly with the 
unanticipated migrant surges. Most of the migrants 
from El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala fled gang 
violence to cross the Rio Grande and make it into the 
U.S. The Karnes center had been open since 2010, and 
it could hold five hundred people. The one in Dilley 
opened in December 2014, after a historic spike in the 
number of asylum seekers. It is the biggest in the coun-
try, with a maximum capacity of 2,400. Both centers are 
operated by private prison corporations. 

Reddy and the four others on the trip assisted one 
asylum seeker through a successful hearing and many 
others with their preliminary interviews. When they 
returned to New Haven, Reddy and Conchita Cruz 
LAW ’16 formed the Yale Asylum Seekers Advocacy 
Project (ASAP) to continue their work from afar—
poring over intake files, reading transcripts of inter-
views with officials, and conducting phone interviews 
to prepare the information the lawyers on the ground  
would need.

The initial asylum process has three stages: a prelim-
inary interview to establish “credible fear” (a legal term 
indicating the asylum seeker has reason to fear for her 
life should she return to her home country), a “mer-
its” hearing (where the immigration judge makes a first 
decision about the credibility of the asylum case), and 
a final hearing. Around August 2015, the government 
began releasing asylum seekers on bond after the initial 
interview, with only a letter following them to notify 
them of the hearings that would occur many months 
later. Previously, it had held them at the centers for 
longer periods before releasing them. There was a fatal 
flaw in the government’s plan: hundreds of families did 



**Title:  A Yale-Led Effort to Help Asylum Seekers Avoid Deportation**
**Author: Victorio Cabrera**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
FEBRUARY 2016
 7
not get the letters, and many who did get the letters did 
not understand that they could be deported if they did 
not attend their hearings.

By October, legal assistants began to understand the 
scope of the problem. One of the main organizations 
working at the detention centers, CARA, a coalition of 
immigrant advocacy groups, maintains a database of 
information about asylum seekers. This database cov-
ers only the asylum seekers who have interacted with 
CARA (as of publication, approximately six thousand), 
just a fraction of the total flow, Reddy says. 

With the information from CARA, ASAP can call 
into a government hotline, obtain information about 
upcoming hearings, and notify women about their 
court dates. The voice on the other end of the line has 
the flatness of an official recording: “Welcome to the 
automated case information hotline,” a woman’s voice 
says with little inflection. The recording is a little too 
loud, and a little too repetitive: “The alien registration 
number, also known as the A-number, begins with the 
letter A and is followed by an eight- or nine-digit num-
ber.” It is neither hostile nor friendly, but the flatness 
is unsettling. “Please enter those numbers now.” The 
Yale volunteers have heard these recordings dozens of 
times—the same message appears every time they call. 

About two hundred Yale Law students and under-
graduates filed into room 127 in the Sterling Law Build-
ing in late October. Armed with laptops and phones, 
they turned the lecture hall into a call center. They 
dialed for hours. The room was mostly quiet as they 
typed numbers identifying asylum seekers into their 
phones; occasionally, someone would get information 
about an upcoming hearing and yell. (Alina Aksiyote, 
a volunteer, told me that the number entered often has 
no record to match, either because the asylum seeker 
has been deported or a hearing has not yet been sched-
uled.) Pizza appeared, and the volunteers ate. Then 
they kept dialing. This went on from six to nine at night 
and happened again the next day, and the day after.

ASAP got through the backlog of approximately 
four thousand released asylum seekers during the ini-
tial flurry in October. Twenty or so volunteers drawn 
from the seven other schools affiliated with ASAP, 
including the law schools at Columbia, Georgetown, 
and DePaul, now aim to assist a few hundred people 
per week. They work from a spreadsheet, filling logis-
tical details into a script they send out through texts. 
“Hello,” it begins, in Spanish. “I am a volunteer with 
the group that helped (name) when she was detained. 
This is a reminder that (name) has an immigration 
court hearing on (date) at (time) in (city, state).” The 
asylum seekers often do not have cell phones; these 
messages go to their family, friends, or hosts, who are 
listed in the database. It continues: “It is very import-
ant that she attend this hearing, as not attending might 
result in her deportation.” 

One of the volunteers, Charlotte Finegold ’17, 
described it as sending texts “out into the ether.” Some-
times, those who text back ask if ASAP can help friends 
with legal problems. Many reply with something far 
briefer: “Muchas gracias.” 

ASAP seeks to guide asylum seekers around the 
flaws of a system which the government could fix but 
hasn’t. This lack of official aid, for Reddy, is the most 
emotionally exhausting part of the work. The detention 
centers, the broken notification system for hearings, 
the hair-trigger threshold for deportation—ultimately, 
the government is treating these people not as asylum 
seekers, but as criminals, according to Reddy. Her con-
solation is the attorneys at the detention centers; the 
volunteers updating the database in New Haven; the 
churches in Texas where asylum seekers and their chil-
dren receive backpacks full of clothes and food. 

What else is there to do when you’re wrestling with 
World War II-era refugee conventions, state-subsuming 
criminal gangs a continent away, and an impersonal 
federal bureaucracy? Prepare twenty-five document 
collections a week. Send two hundred texts. Scale up, 
expand. Expect that the system can change, and try to 
temporarily cover its cracks.


— Victorio Cabrera is a sophomore 
in Trumbull College.
There was a fatal flaw 
in the government’s 
plan: hundreds of 
families did not get the 
letters, and many who 
did get the letters did 
not understand that 
they could be deported 
if they did not attend 
their hearings.


**Title: Management in a Mason Jar**
**Author: Amelia Nierenberg**
**Page number(s): 8**

 8
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
MANAGEMENT IN A MASON JAR
P O I N T  O F  D E PA R T U R E
Yale SOM is investing in applesauce
Amelia Nierenberg
The first time I met Catherine Wu, she sat with 
two small, misshapen apples at the Happiness Lab, 
a coffee shop on Chapel Street. Beside her were also 
three tiny mason jars, each with a different flavor of 
UglyFruit, the “artisanal applesauce” Wu makes from 
Connecticut apples and sells to local coffee shop(pe)
s. I had just taken a bite of the “vanilla bourbon” flavor 
(savory, spicy, an applesauce iteration of how houses 
smell after wood fires), when she leaned across to ask 
what I thought. “It’s good,” I said, surprised at her 
intensity. She nodded knowingly. “But how good?” 
she probed, her quiet voice clipped and professional. 
“What does it make you think about?”

The 
name 
“UglyFruit” 
doesn’t 
make 
sense 
immediately. The finished product is far from ugly. The 
mason jars (which you can bring back to the Happiness 
Lab for a discount on your next purchase) are, frankly, 
adorable. But the apples Wu uses are ugly, which is why 
farmers couldn’t profit from selling them in grocery 
stores. Thousands of pounds of apples rot in orchards 
across Connecticut every harvest season because they’re 
too unsightly for consumers. Wu has managed to turn 
this excess into a resource, fodder for a business idea. She 
conceived the idea of targeting food waste after watching 
a John Oliver segment on America’s wasted produce. 

In her snug green sweater and delicate gold jewelry, it’s 
hard to imagine Wu—Cat to her friends—going apple 
picking. Wu doesn’t even like regular applesauce. She has 
a “super strong gag reflex” for the stuff (though she does 
love apple pie). So she made applesauce that she could 
actually eat: no mealy texture, no added sugars.

She fancies herself the Johnny Appleseed of New 
Haven, but has little previous experience in agriculture. 
Before she enrolled in the Yale School of Management, 
she graduated from Wellesley with a double major in 
Economics and Political Science, then worked as a 
consulting analyst and for education non-profits.

She’s successfully made applesauce, a staple of lunch 
boxes and old age homes, pretty hip. “It’s weird,” she 
said. “I’m known as the applesauce lady at SOM.” With 
a grant and mentorship from the Venture Creation 
Program at SOM, Wu has thrown herself into mission-
driven business, seeking to profit and also do social 
good. She views UglyFruit as a “lifestyle brand”: its 
customers hypothetically live ethical, healthy, and 
socially minded lives, so they gravitate towards a snack 
that satisfies both their values and their appetites. 

At least, that’s the marketing strategy. It works for 
loyal customer and equally idealistic SOM student 
Hannah Grill ’17: “This goes beyond turning apples 
into applesauce—this is about connecting people to 
the food they eat in a new way.” Through limited trials, 
Wu has sold over one hundred jars and has over eighty 
customers with direct delivery pre-orders. She plans to 
have product in mainstream grocery stores sometime  
this spring. 

When Wu talks about potential flavor experiments 
(“There’s so much you can do with apples”), UglyFruit 
seems less like a solution to a dire problem and more 
like an entrée to entrepreneurship. For all its novelty, 
UglyFruit is the outcome of the standard MBA mindset—
find a hole in the market, make a business idea around 
it, and launch your product. Many of the other start-ups 
out of the SOM Venture Creation Program also employ 
this doing-good-by-doing-well business model: Braingrove 
provides a social learning platform, Sustainable Luxury 
Pearl creates luxury jewelry by restoring the natural 
pearl farming environment in China, and Maike 
Water reduces the brine discharge related to seawater 
desalination technologies. 

UglyFruit is not yet at the core, pun intended, of the 
SOM social enterprise start-up scene, but Wu is already 
testing new flavors. Next up in applesauce: vanilla earl 
grey. It’s not on the market yet, but Wu describes it as an 
“Asian-Japanese taste of more floral flavors,” and she’s 
catering to a female demographic. It’s the taste of next 
week’s success—light, sweet, and just a little zany. 

— Amelia Nierenberg is a sophomore 
in Timothy Dwight College.
—ISS


**Title: Mispronunciations**
**Author: Jake Orbison**
**Page number(s): 9**

MISPRONUNCIATIONS
p o e m
Jake Orbison
We cannot tell anyone where we are going,
but they all know we are lost.

We walk from the mountain to a café 
to another café talking about 
what foundations are best to build on.

We make guesses. Respect, money. 
It would have to be something unlike bricks 
that can evolve with the structure it creates. 
Love. No, not love. Anything but love.

We know we are more or less talking about affection.

We stay nights on Duluth and enjoy
pushing the sounds through our slack-jawed mouths:
Rue Saint-Denis, Boul Saint-Laurent. Oui.

When you want to make me smile 
you wink with both eyes,
which I think you might have learned from me,
which I think I learned from my grandmother of all people. 

I notice the night has fallen; you tell me 
how pretty it is. I notice 
my relationship with Ben is deteriorating;  
you tell me how it is not necessarily 
a sad thing. Or if it is a sad thing, 
a necessary thing, and not uniquely sad.

What’s French for fear? What for desire?
I bet they have beautiful ways to say that here.

The children born in this city, who knows where they run to.
—NYPL Archive



****Title: FEBRUARY 2016**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
FEBRUARY 2016
 11
All three events free; no tickets required.  ism.yale.edu
The Anchiskhati  
Church Choir
From Tbilisi, Georgia
The Orthodox Paschal Cycle
Chants from Holy Week and Pas-
cha, and para-liturgical folk songs 
with traditional instruments
friday, march 4 · 8 pm
Christ Church
84 Broadway at Elm
Suman  
Bhattacharya
Padavali-kirtan music and story-
telling from India
saturday, april 9 · 5:30 pm
Henry R. Luce Hall
34 Hillhouse Ave.
Teesri Dhun  
(The Third Tune)
Live documentary transgender 
drama from Pakistan
Directed by Claire Pamment and 
Iram Sana
saturday, april 23 · 7:30 pm
Marquand Chapel
409 Prospect St.
yale institute of sacred music presents


**Title: Quality Time**
**Author: Jennifer Gersten**
**Page number(s): 12**

 12
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Quality Time
P E R S O N A L  E S S AY
Getting home, the long way
Jennifer Gersten
Emma picks me up from my dorm at Yale on the first day 
of spring break so she can drive me to her dorm at Wes-
leyan, where I plan to spend the next two nights to figure 
things out. She looks strange in the driver’s seat, taller and 
calmer than I’m used to, or maybe I’m just not used to the 
idea of her sitting there. 
I still don’t know how to drive. Last summer I was 
supposed to learn, and the summer before that, and 
also the summer before that. I can’t convince myself 
that driving is any more critical a skill than juggling. It 
just seems like another way to be lonely. Lonely is how 
everyone looks in the photos on their licenses, which 
is an effect of being told not to smile: caged by the 
camera, stoic and solitary. On Emma’s license, earned 
when she was seventeen, her lips are pursed to hide the 
orthodontic metal reining in her wayward teeth. Now I 
see a glint on her nose, a tiny silver hoop. She sees me 
looking: “It’s new.”
For dinner we go to an expensive Spanish restaurant 
where there won’t be any students and order a fourth 
—KC



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Jennifer Gersten**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“You can come if you want,” Emma adds, as an  
afterthought. 

We enter the building through the trash room and 
climb the stairs to her third-floor suite, where she lives 
with her friend Claire. Emma lets me in and goes off, 
saying she’ll be back soon. In the meantime I turn on 
the lights and go into the kitchen, where I open all 
the cabinets and drawers one at a time. Between Claire 
and Emma there are ten mugs, two handfuls of orna-
mented forks and spoons, and one slim knife. Inside 
one cabinet I find twelve types of tea, several of which 
are labeled “for women.” I decide on a cup of Women’s 
Chai. I press the home button on my phone repeated-
ly—I like to see it light up—and wait for the tea to boil. 
I’m going to study her when she comes back. I’ll 
inspect her eyes, and watch her person for a smelly 
pouch or a plastic bag. But her hands are empty 
when I see her; her jeans don’t even have any pock-
ets. She goes into her room and tells me she has to get 
some reading done. “It’s only the first day of break,” 
I say. Already, she’s with Persuasion, wrapping herself  
in blankets.

My mother, Susan, is a Chinese woman whose ability 
to find and befriend other Chinese women, including 
Emma’s mother, Shirley, will one day be revealed as 
an advanced form of echolocation. Susan and Shirley 
met in line waiting to pick us up from the first day of 
first grade. At Emma’s house, Susan and Shirley drank 
tea in the dining room while a floor below Emma and I 
decided we liked each other over a tub of one thousand 
Legos. That’s how friendship happens when you’re 
smaller: you presume it. The older you get, the longer 
it takes to be sure that someone is on your side. I’d call 
of the sprawling tapas menu. When we’re splitting the 
bill I think suddenly about what my dad is always say-
ing, that Emma’s father is a doctor who could afford 
to buy our entire neighborhood and still have change 
for pizza, and how that’s probably not true and anyway 
it’s a bad thought to think, but I can’t help that I’ve 
thought it.

In the car I realize I wasn’t even all that hungry, just 
tired. I was up until 4 a.m. scanning other people’s 
writing into an online database for a writing contest, 
crouched beside a finicky, old, all-in-one printer with 
hundreds of pages to go. The overhead light was dim, 
and my roommate had inexplicably packed up all the 
lamps, so I worked in the dark. Everyone I knew had 
left campus. When the machine sputtered, I patted it 
as if I were consoling a child. From beneath the glass 
snuck bursts of light that I thought were trying to tell 
me something. 

I wasn’t supposed to be looking at any of the submis-
sions because contest staff were to remain impartial, 
but of course I read everything I happened to see as if it 
were addressed to me. The last story was eighteen pages 
about a father and his son, who is a musician. The dedi-
cation, at the top of one cream-colored page, read “For 
Charles.” I wondered if Charles knew about this story, 
and if he did, whether he enjoyed it, or if he was put off 
by how self-consciously constructed it came across. But 
when I reread it imagining I was Charles, I was moved.

Emma is an English major, like me, except she wants 
to be a doctor, unlike me. She spent the last semester 
abroad in Dublin taking courses on medieval British 
literature because the upper-level courses on Joyce 
were closed to transfer students. In Dublin, she met 
Mason, who is taking some time off from art college in 
Tennessee to engage more fully in his jazz death metal 
band. When I hear this, I nod convulsively to show her 
how open-minded I have become. She doesn’t have 
any photos of Mason, only photos of her taken by him 
on her phone. They’re all black and white. She’s sitting 
on a brick wall strewn with graffiti, looking at the cam-
era, at him, and now at me, sort of.

Emma pulls into the parking lot next to her dorm, 
a stout building in beige. She’s a good driver, and fits 
her car into a tiny space like she’s threading a needle. 
Then she shuts off the music, this thrashing electron-
ica that she’s kept muzzled at a low volume. “We can 
go up, then I’m going to pick up my weed,” she says, 
yanking the key out of the ignition. The heat in the car 
lingers, but I feel the incoming cold even beneath my 
down jacket, two sweaters, and the last t-shirt in the 
clean pile, which I received at the conclusion of my 
high school AP United States History class and reads 
“Four Score and Seven Assignments Ago...” 

When the machine 
sputtered, I patted it 
as if I were consoling 
a child. From beneath 
the glass snuck bursts 
of light that I thought 
were trying to tell me 
something. 


most of my earliest acquaintances “elevator friends.” 
These are people you’d never meet if it weren’t for 
repeated happenstance in intimate spaces, until one 
day you’re trying to call your house and you call their 
house instead.

When we were smaller, Emma wasn’t allowed to 
bring her toys upstairs. We spent most of our time play-
ing in the basement, where I accidentally broke a lot of 
things. Worst of all was a scale Lego model of Dumb-
ledore’s study that took her weeks to build. She didn’t 
seem angry, but she refused to let me put the pieces 
back in order. “Everything you touch, you break,” she 
said, pressing a yellow tile into the place it had been 
moments ago. That’s not true, I protested. It was a little 
true. Once I was alone in her basement inspecting a 
paper model of an ornate Chinese junk when one of 
the sails broke off in my hand. I was so surprised and 
upset I almost yelled. But I didn’t want to her to dis-
cover what I had done, so I kept quiet and buried the 
pieces in a crate full of books beneath her desk. Why 
did people bother making things if they were going  
to break?

Emma’s silky lavender blanket is bunched around 
her knees. I haven’t brought anything to do, so I sit in 
her chair and open the small black notebook I carry 
around to a clean page. I’m in an introductory fiction 
class and have a story due the week after break. On 
Emma’s desk is a photocopy of E. M. Forster’s Aspects 
of the Novel. Chapter Three: Plot. “‘The king died and 
then the queen died’ is a story. ‘The king died, and 
then the queen died of grief’ is a plot.” A story, Forster 
writes, makes you ask “And then?” and a plot makes you  
ask “Why?” 

I’ve been considering writing about a florist who has 
ceased to leave his shop and lives surrounded by over-
grown houseplants. He makes his final sale, a bouquet 
of gardenias, to a woman who has axed her way through 
the shrubbery. Once he loved her. Then he suffocates 
on a daffodil. “And then?” “Why?” I get distracted. 
The snow starting outside seems unnecessary. There 
is already enough of it, these stout mounds brooding 
around the edges of Emma’s building like they’re wait-
ing to be invited in.

At around 9 p.m., a girl enters without knocking and 
paws through Emma’s sparse wardrobe. The three of 
us go downstairs, where five of Emma’s other friends 
are already sitting knee-to-knee in a circle on Hannah’s 
small floor planning their road trip to Buku, which 
I learned earlier is a music festival in New Orleans. 
There is a tie-dyed dreamcatcher the size of a pocket-
watch dangling off a hanger in Hannah’s open closet, 
the sort of thing you buy at a street fair and forget about. 
In one trip scenario they’re going to spend a night 
in Atlanta and a night in Nashville on the way back. 
In another they’re staying a day in Houston, two days 
in New Orleans instead of one, and eating dinner with 
Martin’s sister in Richmond. At one point Martin has 
tacked on an extra ten hours to their driving time with 
the addition of a stop at the Mexican border. “Martin,” 
Emma says, after which her friends laugh and drop 
the idea. She’s only lying on Hannah’s bed looking at 
her phone, but she’s definitely the one in charge. The 
group sticks little red circles across the map like they’re 
spreading a pox. Around midnight Emma says she’s had 
enough and we decide it’s time to leave.

After Emma falls asleep, I go for a walk around her 
hallway and find a place to pace between the balcony 
and the vending machine. My phone starts vibrating. 
I see Home calling and don’t pick up. It’s my mom. 
She wants to know where I am. No one I know knows 
where I am, except for Emma. I like it that way. Every 
year I tell myself I’m not going back, and every year I 
hate myself for walking in the front door, taking off my 
sneakers by stepping on their backs the way my high 
school track coach said you’re not supposed to—it’s 
bad for your ankles—and taking my seat on the living 
room couch like it’s been reserved for me. I lean really 
far over the balcony, which is about a story and a half 
above the laundry room, and think about being reck-
less. If people were looking for me, where would they 
look first? Bang on my door, then check the library, 
the classroom I study in and have privately dubbed “A 
Room of My Own,” the coffee shop where I and a thou-
sand other people have spent their time.

I’m pretty bad at hide-and-seek. I was tall long before 
the other kids in first grade were tall, which made hid-
ing behind even the highest chairs or play castle walls 
difficult. So I sought walk-in closets, cabinets, once 
even a narrow pantry crammed with Italian herbed 
The older you get, the 
longer it takes to be 
sure that someone is 
on your side. I’d call 
most of my earliest 
acquaintances 
“elevator friends.” 

tomatoes, which made me feel like I was in a cave of 
little hearts. I wondered what would happen if I fell 
over this ledge and when Emma would realize, if it 
would take minutes, or hours, or the terrifying possibil-
ity of a year. And I wondered why the people we care 
about don’t just somehow know when bad things have 
happened to us without us having to tell them, why 
that’s not a sense anyone thought we needed to have. 
“Jenny,” I hear. My mother; I’ve picked up. “Where 
are you? Is it snowing where you are? It’s snowing here.” 
We’re both quiet, like we’re stopped at a light and wait-
ing for the other to go. “The snow looks like flour,” she 
says. “Someone had an accident in the kitchen if that’s 
true,” I finally respond. “That was a joke,” I add, when 
there’s silence.

The snow really does look like flour. I’m looking out 
the window next to the balcony where you can see the 
snow falling. That big, innocent backyard. “Where are 
you?” my mother asks again. “Are you coming home 
soon?” She misses me. She says she misses me every 
time she looks at the snow. I don’t tell her I’m coming 
home. I haven’t decided if I will yet, but in three days 
I’ll be back on my parents’ couch. 

The next morning Emma drops me off at the shuttle 
stop going back to Yale. We hug and I tell her to keep 
in touch. While I wait, I listen to other people calling 
their doctors about appointments. Hi it’s Jane, Hi it’s 
Matthew, Hi it’s Duncan, just confirming for Monday, 
Wednesday, Thursday. I wonder if any of the calls are 
serious, if anyone might have cancer or a grandmother 
dying, and I feel immediately guilty. 

It’s cold outside, and I don’t get back until late. I 
unlock the door to my room and switch on the over-
head light. As usual it does not turn on when requested, 
but takes its time, sliding into brightness. When it 
finally does turn on, the light is ungenerous, showing 
me everything exactly as I left it. 	 	

— Jennifer Gersten is a senior 
in Saybrook College. 



**Title: WHEN YALE MOVES IN**
**Author: Natalie Yang**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 16
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
WHEN YALE MOVES IN
Has a university program meant to stabilize the city  
become a publicity stunt?
Natalie Yang
A dramatic exposé published in a 1994 issue of GQ 
magazine lamented that Yale was about to cheer 
its “Last Boola Boola.” The pre-apocalyptic article 
described an institution whose sluggish endowment 
struggled amid a “war zone of poverty, crime, and 
drugs as frightening as any American city.” New Haven 
was hauling itself out of a recession, and while the city 
and Yale were certainly not quite as rotten as the arti-
cle made it seem, the bad press was an indicator of the 
University’s declining public image.

It was true that bad blood between Yale and New 
Haven had existed for decades. “Twenty-five to for-
ty-five years ago, there was a time when the president 
of Yale and the mayor of New Haven wouldn’t even 
speak to each other,” remembers Sam Chauncey ’57 
who served as the University’s vice president and secre-
tary under President Richard Levin GRD ’74. The 1991 
murder of Christian Prince, a fourth-generation Yale 
student who was shot through the heart on Hillhouse 
Avenue, shocked the Yale community. His was the first 
murder of a Yale student on campus since 1974. Even 
as it highlighted the gulf between the campus and the 
rest of the city, Prince’s murder served as a reminder 
that Yale was inseparable from New Haven.

The Yale Homebuyer Program was a product of this 
turbulent time, when the Elm City and its wealthiest 
institution shared a bleak outlook but seemingly lit-
tle else. Less than a year after his inauguration, Levin 
announced the initiative: any Yale employee who 
bought a house in New Haven would receive two 
thousand dollars per year for ten years to help offset 
the city’s hefty property tax. Modeled after similar pro-
grams at Columbia and the University of Chicago, the 
program was designed to simultaneously stabilize the 
University’s workforce and address the city’s blight. “It 
asked, how can we promote efforts that create fierce 
neighborhood 
loyalty 
through 
homeownership?” 
remembers former mayor John DeStefano, who was 
sworn in four months after the program began. Today, 
the Yale Homebuyer Program has declining relevance 
for New Haven, but it remains a centerpiece of Yale’s 
sloganeering about its investment in the city.

According to The New York Times, in 1994, when 
the Homebuyer Program was founded, only about 
thirty percent of Yale’s employees lived in New Haven. 
Yale employees met the program with a mix of praise 
and trepidation. For some, the program was a wel-
come incentive to move into New Haven. For others, 
it wasn’t enough to make the city seem safe. Dee Dee 
Emery, a food service worker who rented an apartment 
in New Haven, and whose son had been shot and killed 
the year before, told the Associated Press in July of that 
year that she still wanted to move out of the city. “Any-
where away from here,” she said. But others jumped at 
the financial benefits. “If it weren’t for Yale’s assistance, 
we wouldn’t be looking [for a home] in New Haven,” 
Richard Gold, a professor at the School of Drama, told 
the Yale Daily News in October 1994. 

Despite the initial ambivalence, the program was 
quickly lauded. “Homebuyer Program Succeeds,” 
declared a headline in the Yale Daily News just four 
months after the program’s launch. Today, more than a 
thousand Yale employees have bought homes through 
the program. The Yale Corporation has renewed fund-
ing for the Homebuyer Program every two years since 
its inception, most recently the past December. Each 
renewal is marked by the publication of an upbeat arti-
cle in the University-run site YaleNews, boasting the 
University’s commitment to the city and highlighting 
the stories of a few satisfied new homebuyers. For the 
program’s twentieth anniversary in 2014, the  Yale Daily 
News called it one of President Levin’s “most widely 
acclaimed town-gown initiatives.” 

According to the 2010 census, New Haven had the 
largest population growth of any city in New England 
over the previous decade. New Haven’s crime rates 
hit a twenty-year low the same year, and today New 
Haven has one of the lowest vacancy rates in the coun-
try, according to the Hartford Courant. Luxury apart-
ment buildings are popping up in response to the 
high demand for housing. But at the same time, says 
Jim Paley, executive director of Neighborhood Hous-
ing Services, “We have a great disparity between more 
affluent people in New Haven and poor people.” 
C R I T I C A L  A N G L E


---

**Title: WHEN YALE MOVES IN (continued)**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

FEBRUARY 2016
 17
Homes in wealthy neighborhoods, continues Paley, 
have had fairly stable value on the housing market. 
Those in lower income neighborhoods, though, have 
seen a precipitous fall when the economy declines.

The question to consider, then, is what role the 
Homebuyer Program plays in a city that is very differ-
ent from the city of twenty years ago. Since 1994, Yale 
has committed more than $28 million to the Home-
buyer Program. The program has produced over a 
thousand happy poster children who, as Chauncey 
points out, can go on to be “ambassadors for Yale” in 
their neighborhoods. And with these many beneficia-
ries and the good press that has followed each biennial 
renewal, the Homebuyer Program is an opportunity for 
Yale to profess a commitment to New Haven. It’s clear 
that the program serves Yale. It’s less clear that it still 
serves New Haven. 

May Brantley stands at the front door of her home 
surveying the busy rain-slicked road on a November 
morning. The street is lined on one side with color-
ful houses whose azure and lime-green paint peels 
in small patches. On the other side of the street are 
several small apartment buildings with uniform win-
dows that seem to repeat endlessly down the street. 
Brantley, a lifelong New Haven resident who works 
in Yale’s Theater Studies Department, purchased her 
home in the Dwight neighborhood two years ago. “All 
I could say was wow,” she remembers, recreating the 
open-mouthed look of delight she wore when she first 
walked into the house. 

From her vantage point on the couch, she points 
out all the things she loves about her home: a small 
stained-glass window, her collection of potted plants, 
a fireplace stocked with logs, stairs leading to a spa-
cious bedroom. She has a room for her mother to stay 
in when she is visiting, and a backyard that is large 
enough for family barbecues. She had been planning 
to leave New Haven until she heard about the Home-
buyer Program. “I was going to move to Hamden,” she 
says as the television plays softly in the background. 
“They have much lower taxes there.” The benefit pro-
vided by the Homebuyer Program, though, was enough 
to at least partly offset the high property taxes she has  
to pay.

According to Michael Morand, Yale’s former direc-
tor of New Haven Affairs and a current employee of 
Office of Public Affairs and Communication, the 
Joshua Galperin and his wife, Sara Kuebbing, in their home. Photo by Jennifer Lu.



**Page number(s): 18**

 18
Homebuyer Program has two primary target audiences: 
people who live outside New Haven and might not 
have considered moving into the city, and people who 
rent in New Haven and need assistance or incentive 
to buy a home. Brantley, who fits into the second cat-
egory, is a model beneficiary of the program: a native 
of the Elm City who could afford to purchase a home 
thanks to Yale, and as a result promotes stability in the 
Dwight neighborhood. 

When Brantley bought her home two years ago, the 
program had gone through around ten renewals and 
modifications. When it first began, employees could 
receive the benefit if they bought a home anywhere in 
New Haven. After the first two years, it was limited to 
only homes purchased in parts of East Rock, Beaver 
Hills, Wooster Square, Dixwell, Newhallville, Dwight, 
the Hill, and West Rock. Specific areas of the latter 
five neighborhoods are federally designated “empow-
erment zones” in need of economic development. 
Fair Haven, which does not include an empowerment 
zone, was also added to the Homebuyer Program in 
2003 at the request of union contract negotiators to 
accommodate employees who wanted to live in a pri-
marily Latino neighborhood. Now, eligible employ-
ees—professors with appointments of at least one year 
and permanent staff who work at least twenty hours per 
week—can receive up to a total of thirty thousand dol-
lars, paid in installments over ten years.

Though the Yale Homebuyer Program includes mul-
tiple empowerment zones, there is one area of partic-
ular focus. The University offers a $5,000 additional 
credit to individuals who purchase homes in Dixwell, 
the neighborhood immediately northwest of the new 
residential colleges, which are scheduled for comple-
tion by 2017. Dixwell currently has lower crime and 
poverty rates than both Newhallville and the Hill. 
Yale, however, offers no extra incentive to homebuy-
ers in those latter two neighborhoods. By contrast, the 
Neighborhood Housing Service, a New Haven-based 
organization that provides a wide range of programs 
to support new homeowners with down-payment assis-
tance and homebuyer education programs, specifically 
targets Newhallville and parts of the Hill for its housing 
renovations and support, but not Dixwell. Neighbor-
hood Housing Services’ Jim Paley says his organization 
focuses on areas where money can have the greatest 
impact. “A lot of areas in Dixwell have come back very 
strong,” he explains, contrasting it with Newhallville 
and the Hill. “I think Yale is selecting Dixwell because 
it is just adjacent to where the new residential colleges 
are being built.” 

One way of reading Yale’s selection of neighbor-
hoods, says Chloe Taft, a postdoctoral associate in the 
American Studies department who teaches a course on 
the history of housing in America, is to conclude that 
Yale has chosen the empowerment zones as areas that 
could particularly benefit from increased homeowner-
ship and the investment it would bring. “On the other 
hand,” she continues, “Yale has an interest in creating 
buffer zones” by investing specifically in the areas that 
border the campus, creating more stability through 
homeownership in an area, like Dixwell, that is close to 
student housing.

Yale’s focus on empowerment zone neighborhoods 
also contributes to subtle shifts in the demograph-
ics of communities surrounding the University. “The 
Homebuyer Program is gentrification in that it implies 
investment in the community,” says Elihu Rubin, an 
assistant professor at the Yale School of Architecture. 
“The dark side of that, though, is displacement.” As 
homebuyers purchase homes and go on to live in them 
instead of renting them out, a house that might have 
once been rented out at an affordable rate is no longer 
on the market, reducing supply and, considered on a 
large scale, gradually raising prices.

DeStefano points out that New Haven’s housing 
problem today—now that the rate of home vacancies 
has been brought down significantly—is the avail-
ability of affordable housing. “The community that is 
feeling squeezed by the development of market-rate 
housing feels like we need to have policy that pre-
serves affordable housing,” he says. Bridgette Russell, 
director of the Homeownership Center of the Neigh-
borhood Housing Services, points out that New Haven 
has become a target for real estate investors because 
of its low vacancy rates—2.1 percent, according to the 
New York-based real estate research firm Reis—and 
high rents. According to a 2014 report by the City of 
New Haven, the average monthly rate for a two-bed-
For the program’s 
twenty-year 
anniversary in 2014, the 
Yale Daily News called 
it one of President 
Levin’s “most widely 
acclaimed town-gown 
initiatives.” 



**Yale's Homebuyer Program: A Success Story?**
**Author: Natalie Yang**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
FEBRUARY 2016
 19
room apartment in the city is high: $2,173. Though the 
Homebuyer Program has not caused the rents to sky-
rocket, it now sits in the uneasy position of handing out 
money without making a concentrated effort to direct 
it to places that truly need it the most.

Despite the changes in the city and the University, 
Yale touts the program as proudly as ever. “For more 
than two decades, the University has sought to engage 
in even more powerful ways with its neighbors,” says 
Morand, delivering a well-practiced speech in his deep 
baritone. “The Homebuyer Program is a key facet of 
this comprehensive engagement with our neighbors.” 
The program has attracted roughly thirty-five partici-
pants per year in the last few years, and the majority 
of those homeowners end up staying in their homes 
for a long term. In that sense, Morand says, it is a clear 
success. And participants in the program are, unsur-
prisingly, thrilled by the financial rewards and by more 
intangible benefits. 

“I definitely feel more vested in New Haven as a 
city,” says Sarah Kuebbing, a postdoctoral associate 
in the School of Forestry. She and her husband, Josh 
Galperin, who teaches at Yale Law School and the 
School of Forestry, bought their home in Beaver Hills 
after renting an apartment in East Rock. Even though 
they were already living in New Haven, looking to buy 
a home encouraged them to move outside of the “Yale 
Bubble,” as they referred to it several times during our 
interview. “I’m more interested in the community and 
the politics than I would be if I lived in East Rock,” she 
says. Owning a home in Beaver Hills allows the couple 
to take advantage of one of the greatest benefits of liv-
ing and working in New Haven—the short commute—
while also being able to become part of a close-knit 
community. On weekends, they spend much of their 
time working in their yard, which slopes high above 
the street and gives them a good vantage point from 
which they can talk to their neighbors next door and 
across the street. “They’re great neighbors,” says Dana 
Holahan, who lives next door to Galperin and Kueb-
bing. “They’re committed to making the neighborhood 
better.” Homeowners like Galperin and Kuebbing are 
exactly the type of “ambassadors” that Chauncey says 
the University hopes to dispatch through the Home-
buyer Program.

But while the ambassadors help Yale put forward a 
friendly face, DeStefano says housing is no longer the 
biggest problem that New Haven faces, and certainly 
not as big a problem as it was in 1994, at least as far as 
vacancies and rampant blight go. “The problem now 
is how we invest in young people, not how we invest 
in housing stock. I frankly happen to think that invest-
ment in core competencies of human capital around 
things like higher education, entrepreneurship … are 
more important,” DeStefano says. 	

After the end of her Thursday shift in the Berkeley 
dining hall, Annette Tracey leans forward in a chair in 
the common room and proudly flips through pictures 
of her home in Dixwell. “This is my back yard… This 
is my street…” she says, swiping quickly through sunny 
photos of her red-with-white-trim house on her phone. 
She leans back, her lipsticked mouth pulling back into 
a wide smile as she shakes her head, still in disbelief at 
her good fortune ten years after she bought her home. 
A happy-ending story like Tracey’s is certainly one of 
the biggest accomplishments of the Homebuyer Pro-
gram. Indeed, in the twenty-two years and counting 
of its existence, the Homebuyer Program has helped 
more than a thousand Yale employees buy homes and 
fulfill their “American Dreams,” as Tracey puts it. But 
the Homebuyer Program is essentially an investment, 
and as with any investment it is made because the 
investor plans to get something out of it. 

Morand concludes that one of the many functions 
of the Homebuyer Program today is “maintaining the 
momentum that New Haven has built over the last 
twenty years.” But when it comes to maintaining the 
momentum of the city’s tremendous comeback since 
the nineties, it is hard to see how the Homebuyer Pro-
gram, ill-suited to the city’s current needs in education 
and employment, could play a big role. 
— Natalie Yang is a sophomore 
in Ezra Stiles College.
The Homebuyer 
Program is essentially 
an investment, and as 
with any investment, 
it is made because the 
investor plans to get 
something out of it.  


---

**Untitled**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 20**

 20
THE  NEW  JOURNAL



**Title: Church Street South Eviction**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Ramon DeJesus, a former tenant of Church Street South.


FEBRUARY 2016
 23
Marx, a lawyer with New Haven Legal Assistance, 
represents the people who lived there. Del Hoyo, 
DeJesus, Rivera, their children, and more than fifty 
other families at Church Street South who were 
displaced due to black mold, decaying ceilings, 
crumbling staircases, and illnesses, among countless 
other issues. New Haven’s Livable City Initiative 
declared their units unlivable last September, and 
occupants moved into hotels around the city. Over the 
past few years, Northland Investment Corporation, 
the Boston-based company that owns the complex, 
has been the target of myriad accusations of neglect 
because of the Church Street South conditions. 
Northland is now at the center of legal action involving 
more than a thousand tenants. Over two hundred 
families remain in the apartments, waiting to hear 
where they will go. Their homes haven’t yet been 
condemned, but they know that the buildings will soon 
be torn down.

When the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development (HUD) assessed the property in response 
to the September inspections and other complaints, it 
came back with a score of 20 out of 100, the lowest given 
to any complex in New Haven’s history. The former 
residents are asking who is to blame. The previous 
year, HUD’s partial assessment was a positive eighty-
one percent, calling into question how much attention 
the department really pays to low-income properties. 
With the help of the Housing Authority of New Haven 
(HANH), Northland has begun to relocate families in 
the most severe conditions, but the process of finding 
new, affordable housing is sluggish at best and torturous 
for many. It’s a project that requires government 
inspections, landlords who will accept subsidized rent 
for short periods of time, and vacant, affordable homes. 
At the time of this publication, only forty-two families 
had managed to sign leases and relocate—only about 
fifteen percent of the residents at Church Street South. 
Representatives from Northland declined to comment 
for this article. 

Marx and another local attorney, David Rosen, 
separately represent the tenants against Northland, but 
while the private sector wrestles with accountability, 
families live in uncertainty. Seventeen families—left 
without homes in Church Street South or elsewhere—
are still staying in hotels. Some have gone to the 
Clarion, six miles north from where Marx stood; others 
have ended up in the Premiere, one mile past the 
train tracks. They have been there for months. Their 
belongings are often in storage if not destroyed by mold, 
and even large families are crammed into rooms with 
two beds. This is the aftermath of neglect. 

Clarion Hotel, Hamden, Connecticut
I had to enter the Clarion through the side entrance 
to meet Del Hoyo in her room. Plywood panels covered 
the main doors and windows of the lobby, and the front 
desk had been moved into the continental breakfast 
area, across from the cereal dispensers. The Sunday 
before, at 3 a.m., Del Hoyo woke up thinking a bomb 
had gone off. After the explosion, she scrambled out of 
bed with Jeilyn, her 1-year-old daughter, to get dressed, 
in case she had to run through the shards of glass that 
covered the hallways.

When she stepped outside, she realized that the 
bomb was, in fact, a silver sedan that had careened 
through the lobby’s wall. In a video she took of the 
scene, a doorframe torn off its hinges lies on the floor, 
chunks of glass litter the carpets, and police lights blink 
through gauzy curtains from the parking lot outside. In 
the center of the frame, the car’s pixilated back bumper 
sticks out of a pile of rubble that, minutes before, had 
been the reception desk. 

This incident didn’t faze Del Hoyo. Taking a record 
of her surroundings is routine by now, after snapping 
endless pictures of black mold and waterlogged 
windowsills from Church Street South. Compared to 
the gradual decay of her home, the car incident was 
minor—and ended quickly. 

When I knock on her first-floor door, she welcomes 
me in as if I were coming over for dinner. But there is 
no place for Del Hoyo to serve dinner, let alone cook, 
in her room. Northland gives her a weekly allowance 
for food. Her amenities add up to one queen-sized bed, 
a flat screen TV, and a bathroom. Laundry lies in piles 
near the door, and her daughter’s shoes (a pink boot, a 
sparkly sneaker) are scattered across the carpet. 

“There’s nothing to do here,” she says as she takes a 
seat on the bed, allowing me the only chair in the room. 
She’s been going to her mother’s and grandmother’s 
houses to avoid the hotel. “I literally have been going 
to work even on days that I don’t work, even on days 
when the office is closed.” She is still dressed in the 
scrubs she wears to her receptionist job at a health care 
clinic. Jeilyn crawls across the bed’s surface, back and 
forth, over and over, her small hands leaving slight 
impressions in the sheets. 

Because of the mold that climbed up the walls of 
Church Street South, Jeilyn now has three inhalers. 
Like many other children who grew up in the complex, 
she visits the doctor frequently. Del Hoyo seems 
exhausted when describing her apartment falling to 
pieces. There’s no mold at the Clarion or the other 
hotels where tenants are staying, but their sterile 
anonymity is hard to adjust to.


 24
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Across the hotel, on the second floor, Luz DeJesus 
is cooking rice in a Crock-Pot that teeters on the edge 
of a countertop barely big enough for the small sink. 
Her short frame is cramped while standing in front of 
it to stir. The food—held in rubber bins and cardboard 
boxes stacked on top of one another—leans against 
the wall behind her. She offers me a glass of water 
and free reign of the room’s mauve striped couch, 
but she’s offering me access not to her home, but to a  
temporary space. 

In September, both Del Hoyo and DeJesus moved 
out of Church Street South and into the Premiere 
Hotel, where they had stoves and a bit more space 
than they do now. The Premiere was close to their 
old apartments and the kids’ schools. But when Yale 
parents arrived for the University’s Family Weekend, 
DeJesus, Del Hoyo, and others had to move out. They 
were sent to the Clarion, on the other side of town, to 
make room for the visitors, a transfer coordinated by the 
Premiere. Larry Gottesdiener, the CEO of Northland, 
told the New Haven Independent that the incident was 
“unavoidable” and that “most or all” of the tenants 
would be moved back to the Premiere within days. The 
promise hasn’t held for DeJesus or Del Hoyo. 

DeJesus had lived at Church Street South’s José 
Martí Court building since 1996. She’s no stranger to 
the neglect from Church Street South administrators, 
which, she says, forced her family to be its own 
maintenance staff—it took building custodians two days 
to respond to her clogged sink, so her 17-year-old son 
Ramon bought supplies and did it himself. 

“We knew we had mold in the bathroom,” she says. 
“But nobody really knew the condition we were living 
in.” DeJesus stresses how impossible it was to get help 
from the complex’s maintenance. If she called about 
the mold, they often told her they didn’t have the 
supplies or time. If they did come, they strolled in days 
after the complaint and did a flimsy patchwork job. 

The environment became harder to bear as time 
went on. Her eyes and nose watered. The lupus she was 
diagnosed with in 2006 began acting up, and her whole 
family contracted asthma, a common symptom of living 
in the condemned apartments. “We’re all human just 
like they were,” she says of the Church Street South 
staff and executives. “But we were all living there 
basically, as I see it, as animals.” 

As the mold pushed her out of her apartment, the 
violence and drug use in the Church Street South 
courtyards pushed her back in. The complex takes 
up three blocks with no through streets; areas hidden 
behind concrete walls make it easier to commit crimes. 
DeJesus says gunshots kept her awake at night. “I never 
used to come out of the house,” she remembers. “If I sat 
out front, it was for a little bit so my kids could get air, 
and then we’d come back inside.”

DeJesus’s case first gained momentum after Del 
Hoyo introduced her to Marx. In February 2015, Del 
Hoyo got the ball rolling by calling the Livable City 
Luz and Ramon DeJesus with their parrot Pistachio.



**Title: The Jungle**
**Author: Elena Saavedra Buckley**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
FEBRUARY 2016
 25
Initiative to come inspect her apartment. She tried 
filing her own case against Northland. (She was training 
to be a paralegal at the time, she told me, which helped 
her with the process.) But when Del Hoyo made a 
minor mistake on a form, Northland’s lawyers were 
able to get the case dismissed. She went to Marx at New 
Haven Legal Assistance, and the two of them started 
gathering other accounts of mistreatment. Del Hoyo 
texted neighbors she knew in the complex, asking if 
their apartment had black spots on the ceilings; Marx 
walked around Church Street South, asking people if 
she could see if the walls in their homes were leaking. 
Her office is now working with ninety-nine families, and 
the list is growing. 

While we are talking, DeJesus’s youngest daughter, 
Ashley, who’s 13 and speaks in a soft, measured voice, 
and 
Naydeliz, 
DeJesus’s 
2-year-old, 
bright-eyed 
granddaughter, run into the room. They ask: “Can we 
go to the lobby?” and then, later, “Can we go to the 
pool?” Those are their only options for play, unless they 
want to run down the hall with their Yorkshire or hold 
their green parrot Pistachio, who squawks from beneath 
the pink rag covering its cage. 

DeJesus’s aunt, Haydee Diaz, who lives on the third 
floor of the Clarion, joins us on the couch. Diaz lives 
by herself. She also has breathing problems, and she 
says her doctor insists on monthly visits after seeing 
photos of the mold under her sink at Church Street 
South. With Diaz in the room to add to the complaints, 
DeJesus gets angrier about how long she’s waited for a 
home. They repeat the phrase, “What’s going to happen 
after a year?” after most of their sentences, as if it were  
a prayer. 

“We’re not asking to come out of the Jungle and 
live in a palace!” DeJesus says. “We want something 
comfortable,” The city’s housing authority is helping 
locate new homes, but finding a comfortable spot 
requires time and energy, the kind DeJesus simply 
doesn’t have. With her severe illnesses, children, and 
lack of a job, she is more disadvantaged in the housing 
race than most tenants. 

When the kids are off at the pool, DeJesus and Diaz 
have a harder time keeping their emotions in check. 
When Diaz starts to cry, steeling her face by looking 
at the TV, DeJesus burrows her face in her aunt’s 
shoulder. Then, she looks at me. 
“You know, we’re sitting here and talking to you,” she 
says slowly. “But inside we’re dying to cry.” 

She adds one more thing. 
“All I can say is, God bless Amy. God bless David 
Rosen.” Diaz nods in approval. 

City Hall, New Haven, Connecticut
In November, Marx and Del Hoyo came to Meeting 
Room 3 of New Haven’s City Hall to present their 
case to the Black and Hispanic Caucus of the Board 
of Alders. (The majority of tenants at Church Street 
South, like the residents of New Haven generally, are 
Black or Latino.) Del Hoyo came straight from work, 
her burgundy-tinted hair pulled back into a tight bun.
“Thank you, chairwoman, for your tireless efforts 
so far,” Marx said, addressing Ward 6 alder Dolores 
Colón, the chairwoman of the caucus. After hearing 
Marx’s concerns and Del Hoyo’s testimony, the alders 
voted unanimously to put pressure on Northland from 
inside the city government. Perhaps they could deny 
the company building permits or cite the Fair Housing 
Act rules to describe how Northland’s harmful practices 
disproportionately affect minority residents. There 
would continue to be meetings about Church Street 
South and the larger housing landscape of New Haven 
in the coming months, in the same room and with 
many of the same faces. But, for Del Hoyo and DeJesus, 
little has been decided. The rest of the complex’s 
families have to stay put in the meantime.  

Small numbers of residents continue to move out of 
Church Street South each month, but the number of 
available spaces for them in New Haven is shrinking. 
No law requires Northland to replace the complex’s 
301 units. Marx is wary that the company could find a 
way to duck out, perhaps by dumping all the tenants 
into temporary housing or building apartments that the 
current residents couldn’t afford.

Gottesdiener, Northland’s CEO, told the Boston 
Globe that the Church Street South negligence “is an 
organizational failure and I take responsibility for it. 
We’re not seasoned subsidized housing developers.” But 
he also wrote about Marx in an October email to the 
New Haven Independent:

While we commend her for shining a spotlight on 
this issue, it is time for her to stop pointing fingers and 
start working toward the ultimate goal, getting all of the 
families into quality housing with as little disruption to 
their lives as possible…

In December, Northland proposed a new plan 
designed to relocate the Church Street South tenants 
within the next six months. If HUD approves it, the 
tenants will have two options for new housing: they 
can take part in something called an “8bb transfer,” in 
which residents will move to another large complex that 
Northland has to find and coordinate. They can also 
request a “portable voucher,” a type of subsidy that will 
follow them to an apartment or house of their choice. 
Both pose problems: the 8bb is preferable for people 


--- Page 26 ---

 26
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
who might have trouble getting voucher approval, 
since certain landlords deny leases on the basis of 
language barriers, illnesses, disabilities, and criminal 
records. But the list of possible locations that Northland 
has proposed to HUD for this transfer, Marx says, is 
anything but helpful—even a “fiction.” One location, 
called Val Macri, is a fully subsidized, fully occupied 
complex for homeless people. Many of the other 
buildings aren’t even in New Haven. The voucher 
allows people to select their own homes, for which the 
tenants will pay only thirty percent of the cost. But in 
New Haven, there simply aren’t enough units in the 
city—the pickings for three-, four-, and five-bedroom 
apartments are slim and often too expensive. 

Karen DuBois-Walton, executive director of the 
Housing Authority, explained that it’s impossible for 
Northland to move the Church Street South tenants 
at once: “They’re not going to find 301 units all in one 
effort, so my guess is they’ll find the first twenty, and 
then another thirty.” 

Northland, HUD, and the city are currently 
negotiating who is going to pay, and how much, to make 
this all come to pass. After the company agreed to pay 
for portable vouchers, the process gained momentum. 
Civil rights attorney David Rosen is preparing a 
lawsuit separate from Marx’s. He wants Northland to 
pay its former occupants for damages. In his office on 
Orange Street, with his feet propped on his desk, he 
tells me he’s looking for serious compensation.  

The New Haven Register called Rosen the “dean 
of the civil rights lawyers in Connecticut.”  In 1970, 
he represented Bobby Seale, the co-founder of the 
Black Panther Party. Seale was tried and acquitted for 
shooting Alex Rackley, a fellow Panther thought to be 
a spy, in the back of the head and dumping him in the 
Coginchaug River in Middleton, Connecticut. Since 
what Rosen calls “the trial of the century of the year,” 
he’s continued to focus on civil rights cases.

“They’re stuck,” Rosen says of the Church Street 
South tenants. “For the most part, they’re parents of 
young children, and the ones who are working aren’t 
making much money at all.” He’s working with Del 
Hoyo, DeJesus, and many others, but his process thus 
far is quieter than Marx’s—his case is simmering as he 
collects information on everything from lost furniture to 
damaged lungs.  

If Rosen’s lawsuit ends up calling national attention 
to Church Street South, it could also emphasize serious 
questions about how HUD conducts business with 
low-income properties. While the 20/100 score HUD 
recently gave the complex reflects tenant complaints, its 
81/100 score in October 2014 is confusing. There were 
no major capital investments in Northland between 
2013 and 2015, meaning that there is no obvious reason 
their evaluation rose about 20 points from 64/100 in 
October 2013 before plummeting so drastically.   

Amidst all the wrangling over who is to blame, 
one thing is clear: nobody wants to pay. Rosen’s 
case is against Northland, but the government was 
still responsible for funneling money to a negligent 
landlord. Rhonda Siciliano, the spokeswoman of the 
HUD regional office in Boston, which oversees New 
Haven, says the department sampled only a few units 
at Church Street South during the earlier inspections, 
contributing to the misleading results. Their inspection 
process, she said, doesn’t even allow mold to affect 
scores in meaningful ways. If HUD can miss serious, 
complex-wide issues, how can the department ensure 
that they catch life-threatening conditions? 

Tyler Street, New Haven, Connecticut
At this visit, there’s no lobby to go through—or 
around—before knocking on the door. Yomaly Rivera’s 
new house is on Tyler Street, and I’m waiting on her 
front steps. The house has two floors, a driveway, its own 
mailbox, a backyard, and even a Christmas tree inside, 
under which Rivera has placed a tower of presents for 
her kids. She’s still in the process of decorating, but 
she’s proud to show me around. (Her daughter Tatiana’s 
room, for instance, lacks a bedframe, but it has cheetah-
print curtains for now.) “I love it here,” she says, again 
and again. She’s right across the street from Evergreen 
Cemetery. When she lets me in the front door, she 
glances at the rolling hills of tombstones from her 
porch. “The neighbors are quiet.” 

“I was so excited,” she said, remembering the 


--- Page 27 ---

 27
moment she found the house. She could finally move 
out of her room at the Premiere Hotel, where she had 
lived since August. “I was jumping around.” That day, 
the landlord called her to say the house passed HUD 
inspection, and all that was left was to get an official 
record of that pass, sign some papers at Church Street 
South, and move her belongings, most of which were 
still in their boxes (new and mold-free) and piled in the 
corner of the hotel room. She looked forward to having 
some privacy on Tyler Street—and some peace.  

Rivera is letting herself enjoy the house, but she can’t 
yet cut ties with Northland. Until the portable vouchers 
get approved by HUD headquarters, she will continue 
using something called a “pass-through lease” to pay her 
rent—a temporary subsidy that is not part of Northland’s 
proposed voucher program. All tenants who have 
moved into their own apartments or houses currently 
use these leases, and in most cases, Northland has 
been paying about twelve hundred dollars a month for 
them, Marx said. Pass-throughs are part of a process that 
HUD usually reserves for those in the wake of a natural 
disaster. In this case, the disaster is Church Street  
South itself. 

Even though she’s settled in her new home, Rivera 
still feels the instability of relocation due to her 
financial dependency on Northland. She started 
cosmetology school to try to secure a more steady 
income. (Her hair had become a collage of bright 
red and brown since we first spoke in her room at the 
Premiere.) She’s worried that the house could become 
too expensive, even after she receives her voucher from 
Northland. If she has no other options, Rivera could 
potentially move back into an apartment complex like 
Church Street South. For her, this is the last resort—she 
recoils from even talking about her old home. 

She plans to host her mother-in-law, who’s coming 
from Pennsylvania, for Christmas this year. It will be a 
far cry from Thanksgiving, when half of her possessions 
were still in the hotel, the lease unsigned, and her 
husband sick with pneumonia. “Now, it’s kind of calm,” 
she tells me. “We good now.” 

Rivera’s situation represents the ideal outcome for the 
tenants, but she’s one of the early—and lucky—ones. 
She is now waiting, with fingers crossed, for the results 
of David Rosen’s lawsuit. “I know we’re gonna win this. 
It wasn’t our fault. We were dying, little by little, inside 
that place.” 

Armed with photos of mold stretched across her 
drywall, she says she’s ready to testify in court during 
the lawsuit. In one of them, something that looks like 
a mushroom sprouts from a kitchen wall. She goes 
back to Church Street South only to pick up the mail.  
“It’s dead over there,” she says. 

Church Street South, New Haven, Connecticut
From the ground, it’s clear why they call it the Jungle. 
Snow is either frozen into solid sheets or melted 
into dark, static pools in the mud. It congregates, too, 
around the more eerie relics of Church Street South’s 
late-sixties architecture: yellow stone cylinders sticking 
out of the ground; vacant cinderblock buildings with 
barred windows, and, in the middle of one courtyard, an 
inexplicable concrete monolith.

It’s easy to get lost in the Jungle, seemingly by design. 
The system of squat walls is so jumbled that you’ll 
find yourself in a corner, completely hidden to others 
in the complex or anyone on the street. Each dense 
building has cramped passageways running through it, 
dark even on a sunny afternoon. Amy Marx points to 
the rusting stairways, the dripping, icy pipes, and the 
trash collecting in abandoned yards. As she walks past 
Del Hoyo’s former yard gate (a wooden one, painted 
green with a yellow sun), someone sticks a head out of a 
parked minivan to yell, “Hey, that’s Amy Marx!” She has 
become a familiar face at the complex.

“I was just really speechless for a while,” she says of 
her first visit. “It was hard to believe that we had families 
in New Haven living in conditions that were so close to 
the places that all of us go, and yet so far from the reality 
of the rest of our lives.” 

She’s here to visit yet another family that has called 
her office. They live in a building called De Diego by 
the parking lot, and their apartment is bookended by 
ones that have been condemned. Black plywood covers 
the windows and doors here, too. Marx sighs. “It’s 
brutalism in disrepair.” 

Marx approaches a woman who is standing by the 
staircase, smoking a cigarette. 
“Hey there, I’m a legal aid,” Marx tells her. “Carolyn 
called me. Is she home? Do you have mold?”

The woman quickly finishes her cigarette. She nods. 
They walk upstairs and go inside.

Most, if not all, of the tenants will be relieved to close 
their Church Street South doors for the last time. But 
when they leave their apartments, they’ll also leave 
behind a place they called theirs. There’s pride in that 
sense of belonging. For over a thousand people, that 
pride is in jeopardy. In the meantime, they’ll be living 
in limbos—ones that are intact, dry, and without mold, 
but ones that certainly are not home. 

— Elena Saavedra Buckley is a sophomore  
in Silliman College. 



**Title: Reel Talk**
**Author: Ruby Bilger**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Tony Sudol surveys his territory from the projection 
booth. He makes a brief foray into the theater to check 
light and sound levels, then returns satisfied. The show 
tonight, Jean-Luc Godard’s 1961 French New Wave film 
Breathless, is one Sudol has projected dozens of times. He 
knows exactly how it’s supposed to look and sound. While 
the first reel unspools in one of the reel-to-reel projection 
towers, Sudol runs his finger over the next, which he’ll 
load into the second tower in twenty minutes. He starts to 
thread the polyester film through the projector sprockets, 
saying he could do this in his sleep.

Inside the booth, the film sounds like a distant 
jackhammer as it rattles through the gears. We sit in silence 
and watch the characters’ drowned-out flirtations, waiting 
for the flashing black dot at the top right of the screen that 
will cue Sudol to change projectors. Sudol sings along 
with the movie’s four-note theme, the only sound from 
the theater that we manage to hear. I ask him if he likes 
Breathless. He pauses. “I do, but it isn’t successful because 
Jean-Luc Godard directed it,” he says. “It’s good because 
Jean-Pierre Melville, the great French director, suggested 
that he cut out all the unnecessary stuff. So he made this 
jump-cut storyline that was completely new at the time. I 
don’t like Godard.”


Sudol is Yale’s projectionist extraordinaire. A middle-
aged man with a balding ring of brown hair and nearly 
translucent blue eyes, he wears about twenty keys on his 
belt for all the rooms he has to access. He has worked 
at the Film Studies Center since 1997. He organizes 
speakers, rents prints, and—most importantly—projects 
movies nearly every day of the school year. He’s master 
of a profession that has very recently turned obsolete. In 
2000, there were thirty commercial digital screens in the 
world. By 2010, thirty percent of all theaters had gone 
digital, and by 2015, nearly every theater in the world had. 
The Whitney Humanities and Loria Centers are now 
the only venues in New Haven that still project film, and 
Sudol the shadowy figure in the back of the theaters who 
keeps the wheel moving.

He is a film buff with a projectionist’s eye; he can 
not only rank every film Scorsese ever made and rattle 
off all the relevant Bollywood flicks of the 2000s, but 
he also knows what kind of film they were shot on, 
what their appropriate color contrasts are, which high-
quality film prints do them justice and which digitized 
versions render them flat and lifeless. He much prefers 
film to digital, mostly because it gives him control over 
the screening—the power, as he puts it, “to see that the 
director’s vision for the film is rightfully displayed.” While 
modern projectionists download a movie and press play, 
Sudol controls everything about a reel-to-reel screening, 
including the light, sound, projection speed, and aspect 
ratio (the relationship between the image’s width and 
height). He knows, for example, that badly digitized 
versions of silents often use the wrong speed, chopping 
off the sides of the image or speeding up frames so the 
characters zip around like wind-up dolls. This drives 
Sudol mad. He notices everything. Once, watching a 
1960s film he’d seen before, certain that the focus on the 
projector was correct, he noticed that the credits on the 
print itself were out of focus. 

Projection itself isn’t an art form; Sudol considers it 
“protecting someone’s art form.” While he has no control 
over the quality of a print, he can certainly project it 
badly. If he screws up, the effect is like a handsome dog in 
terrible makeup. Charlie Chaplin can run too fast or the 
mysterious four-note theme in Breathless can shriek over 
Patricia Franchini’s disaffected musings on love. If you see 
a film at Yale, Sudol is probably there. If he does his job 
right, you won’t know it.

Sudol once wanted to be a filmmaker. He tried to make 
movies out of college in the eighties, went into debt, got 
a day job at a phone company, and started working as a 
part-time projectionist in 1988. He was a programming 
director for nine years at the New Haven International 
Film Festival, and has worked at Yale since 1997, full-time 
since 2010. The job is technical, but Sudol obsesses over 
film from all angles. 

As many films as he has seen and projects in a given week, 
as hyper-aware as he is of their presentation, his reason for 
watching movies is rather ordinary: to be immersed in a 
story. He hates films with hackneyed narratives that aim to 
score style points or box-office success, but he still believes 
in substance over style. “Story—and the telling of it—is 
the most important part of a film,” he says.

On this point, Sudol has a long-running disagreement 
with Ron Gregg, a film professor and programming 
director of the Whitney Humanities Center. Gregg, who 
teaches Postwar Queer Avant-Garde Film in the fall and 
Hollywood in the 21st Century in the spring, doesn’t even 
pay attention to movie narratives anymore. “Film follows 
a formula,” Gregg says. “I’m rarely lost in film because 
I can tell you within the first five minutes what’s going 
to happen.” Somehow this realization hasn’t made him 
jaded. “So why do I still go see movies? Why did I see 
Mad Max: Fury Road? I know that Mad Max is going to 
win. It doesn’t matter—the experience of the story is the 
aesthetics of it: the costumes, the acting, the editing. The 
story was fine but the aesthetics were amazing. Amazing!”

Sudol and Gregg argue all the time. One of Gregg’s 
favorite movies of this millennium is the Wachowski’s 
2008 remake of Speed Racer. “That movie is pure eye 
candy,” he says. “It’s like watching a moving painting. It’s 
the most expensive art film I’ve ever seen.”

“I hate that movie,” Sudol told me. “There’s no story 
there. It’s unbearable.”     	

Sudol’s favorite films play with Hollywood formula. His 
first cinematic love was Sam Peckinpah’s 1969 Western, 
The Wild Bunch. “What Peckinpah did in that movie was 
take the rules of a Western and flip them on their heads—
he started where all other Westerns end and made the 
good guys the bad guys.” Sudol seems to set up rules for 
what he likes so that they can be inverted. “I like movies 
to have beautiful sets, but Lars von Trier didn’t do that in 
Dogville,” he says. “That movie didn’t have a set; it broke 
all the rules for me. But I was sitting on the edge of my seat 
by the end of it, thinking, ‘Lars, don’t fail me, don’t fail 
me.’ And he didn’t! I was so immersed that I wasn’t even 
paying attention to what I usually look for.”

Sudol gets excited when films manipulate their 
audiences—not emotionally (“I can’t stand it when movies 
pull at my heartstrings,” he says), but physically, when they 
trick viewers into thinking they’re actually in the movie. In 
one scene in Polanski’s Rosemary’s Baby, for example, the 
characters are talking in a room and the camera is placed 
right behind the doorframe. In a theater, Sudol says, you’ll 
see people craning their necks, trying to see beyond the 
door. It’s a clever aesthetic trick in a movie with a famous 
narrative—though whether the shot is engrossing because 
of the devil baby story or the devil baby story is engrossing 
because of the shot is up for debate.

Sudol acknowledges that not all viewers notice, or care 
about, the details he obsesses over. He’s so attuned to 
editing, acting, lighting, and film quality that when he’s 
jolted out of a viewing experience, he knows exactly why. 
He doesn’t like talking about the mechanics of filmmaking 
because it makes him too self-conscious. “If you’re pulled 
out of a film and you know that a jump cut irritated you, 
it ruins the illusion,” he says. But in order for the illusion 
to be successful, the film has to be screened correctly. He 
wanted to see Once Upon a Time in the West since he was 
a teenager, but he refused to rent a corrupt digital copy. 
Instead, he waited twenty-five years until the movie was 
playing at a nearby theater so he could see it on film.  

If the students watching Breathless for class examine 
the film as an image, Sudol examines it as an object. 
Debating aesthetics versus narrative means nothing to a 
projectionist without considering how the film is actually 
shown—on an original print, on a crappy re-print, on 
Blu-Ray, streamed online. In Sudol’s opinion, every 
technological change in the way a movie is shown affects 
the quality of the illusion. This makes him understandably 
anxious these days. Film technology has never been so in 
flux as it is now. 

The argument that pits analog purists against digital 
progressives is often boiled down to sentimentality versus 
practicality (“Film looks better!” cry the purists; “Digital is 
the future!” reply the progressives), but neither medium is 
objectively superior, aesthetically or practically. 
Film doesn’t always look better than digital. 

Appreciators laud film’s chemical advantage, which 
provides sharper, more vibrant pictures than cookie 
cutter pixels. While it’s true that digital pixels haven’t yet 
achieved the chemical precision of film, the gap is closing 
quickly. “I was watching a Blu-Ray copy of Citizen Kane 
the other day and it looked pretty damn good,” Gregg tells 
me. “Certainly the average viewer couldn’t have told the 
difference from a film print.” Moreover, the actual quality 
of a film image depends on the quality of the print, which 
varies wildly. Old prints are often scratched and spotted; 
most prints from the sixties and seventies were shot on 
cheap film that has since turned pink.

Humans have always disrespected film, even when it 
was the dominant movie-making technology. Sudol calls 
it the “abused art form.” Ninety percent of American silent 
films are lost for good, because American film studios 
destroyed the prints after sound emerged in the 1930s. 
The studios didn’t want to pay to store the unpopular 
silents. TV stations would simply wipe the film used for 
newsreels and sitcoms and reuse the base. And there’s 
the millions of small-scale abuses: cheap theaters that 
kept their light bulbs until they burned out, ushers who 
threaded platter reels so that the gears scratched the prints 
diagonally, student projectionists who fell asleep while the 
reel jammed and the bulb burned a hole in the frame.

Unlike data, film decays. How it decays depends 
on when it was made: films before 1954 were all shot 
on a highly flammable nitrate base, which can auto-
ignite (as happened in 1978, when the nitrate vaults of 
both the United States National Archives and Records 
Administration and the George Eastman House burned 
to the ground and their rare contents were lost forever) or 
decay into goo, dust, and a no-less flammable gas. Between 
1954 and the early nineties the base switched to acetate, 
which degrades into acetic acid. Any archivists can tell 
that a film has died the second they open its canister and 
smell vinegar. Now film is made of polyester, a strong, 
pliable, durable plastic ideal for prints. But the material is 
too strong for cameras, which will break if the film jams. 
While film doesn’t last forever, digital isn’t necessarily 
more stable. “Someone can find a film that’s been in a 
hut in a jungle for seventy years and it still holds up,” says 
Brian Meacham, an archivist at the Yale Film Studies 
Center, “whereas the digital footage you shot yesterday 
could be inexplicably corrupted.” Film can last for over 
one hundred years if preserved correctly, at a relatively low 
cost for the archivist. Digital archives cost twelve times as 
much per film to maintain, and are under constant threat 
of data extinction, tech obsolescence, and degradation. If 
a studio runs out of money, you won’t find the digital data 
miraculously preserved in a jungle. 

Film lovers like Sudol and Meacham like to honor 
a film by showing it in its original state. But every film 
is a physical product of its era, altered as technology 
changes. The nitrate films of the Twenties were projected 
onto screens made with actual silver, to dazzling three-
dimensional effect. Some Blu-Ray recordings remove the 
hisses and scratches from old prints and enhance their 
fading colors; others compress the print into a dull plane. 
Some digital films turn black backgrounds grey and 
wobbly; others offer special effects so convincing that they 
swirl out of every shot like a moving painting. Directors 
like the Wachowskis dive triumphantly into digital cinema, 
while Quentin Tarantino outfitted theaters worldwide 
with old projection equipment this past year, so that he 
could show The Hateful Eight in seventy-millimeter film. 
Maybe digital archives will fail and prove the purists right. 
Maybe digital will advance so far that even Sudol can’t 
tell the difference between a pixel and a molecule. For 
now every film exists in suspended copies of itself, some 
in binary and some in celluloid, each distinct difference 
altering the film’s experience for the sharp-eyed viewer. 

So we have people like Sudol, in a relic profession, 
projecting our film experiences like Oz behind the curtain. 
You come for a pleasant experience and he generates your 
illusion, knowing, through obsession, what you don’t—
that the illusion may auto-ignite in a warehouse or be 
deleted when a studio runs out of money, that the jump 
cut wasn’t Godard’s idea, that the Blu-Ray copy corrupted 
the colors, that Polanski put the camera by the door so 
you’d try and see beyond it, that this is a good story because 
it turns the Western trope inside out, that this is a piece of 
crap because the story is just a chase scene, that you may 
never see a movie as dazzling as Citizen Kane on nitrate, 
that the credits are out of focus on this print. 

— Ruby Bilger is a sophomore  
in Branford College.



**Title: In Conversation**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
FEBRUARY 2016
 31
In Conversation
Thursday 
March 3, 2016
5:15PM
Yale Repertory Theatre 
1120 Chapel Street
Open to the public without charge
Dianne 
Wiest
Two-time Academy Award winner
This lecture is endowed through the Elizabethan  
Club of Yale University and co-sponsored by the  
Beinecke Fellows Fund at Yale School of Drama.
Dianne Wiest will appear in Samuel Beckett’s  
Happy Days at Yale Repertory Theatre, April 29–May 21.
Photo by Serge Nivelle
The Twenty-Fifth Annual 
MaYNaRD MaCk LeCTuRe


<br>

**Title: PICKLE JAR APOLOGY**
**Author: Charlotte Ferenbach**
**Page number(s): 32**

p o e m
Charlotte Ferenbach
Because gratitude is finite and because 
apparently, there was never remorse to start with, 
what I get instead is handed a jar of pickles. 
I sit on the floor in front of everyone. I accept 
because I am on a floor 
   and it is in front of everyone.
I eat and am silent. The muscle brines.  
 	
	
*
I would have preferred them
the afternoon the birdwatcher showed us how to look,
When he tasted the way leaves do
if they’re new and sliced through 
by sun or fingernails. A week after
and I sat at the rocky bottom of a creek 
for a long time. 
I listened to birdcalls. It was warm
and green, with pebbles for my fists;
the smallest were grit under my fingernails. 
	
	
Alone in a motel room, nowhere, 
I had a jar too. 
They forgot to give me towels 
but no one was around to see me drip
so it didn’t really matter.
I swept snow angels in a queen-sized bed 
It smelled so clean and good I wanted to die
It was so empty when I reached my arms 
under the heavy comforter covering the unslept side. 
It took four hours to open 
the jar on the kitchenette counter.
The whiskey helped, which I don’t always say.
I cried, but also, I did it. 
—NYPL Archive



**Title: Autism at Yale**
**Author: Clara Collier**
**Page number(s): 33**

S N A P S H O T
Navigating the limits of the University’s support
Clara Collier
Elise* ’16 speaks the way most people write—with-
out garden-path syntax, unnecessary repetition, or filler 
words. Her tone is even and detached, simultaneously 
emphatic and matter-of-fact. Her lack of facial and audi-
tory expressiveness is common in autistic people and bril-
liant but abrasive television detectives—but then, I knew 
what to look for. We didn’t make eye contact. 
Like many women with autism, Elise received her 
diagnosis relatively late in life. She was frank about 
the process. “It sucked. I always knew something was 
wrong, or off, and I just thought I was crazy.” This was 
the first of several points in our interview where I was 
forced to suppress a powerful urge to babble in sympa-
thy. My own emotional memory ranges from patchy to 
nonexistent, but I’ve never had any trouble recalling 
the way I felt the first time I read the words “Asperg-
er’s Syndrome”: recognition, followed by manic,  
soaring relief.
One of the more prevalent clichés in the autistic 
community is that if you’ve met one autistic person, 
you’ve met one autistic person—a counter to the com-
mon misconception that our personalities, opinions, 
symptoms, and capabilities proceed uniformly from 
our diagnosis. If anything, our shared experience is the 
experience of being different. (It’s worth noting that 
my experience is necessarily and drastically limited to 
those of us with the cognitive and motor skills neces-
sary for mainstream education. Self-awareness requires 
some liminal relationship with normality.) We grow up 
with bizarre talents and unexplained skill gaps, intel-
ligent and incapable and out-of-place. Fear, guilt, and 
self-doubt are as close to universal as anything I’ve  
ever encountered. 
But we are often met with the polite conviction that 
people like us don’t exist. Yet even among medical pro-
fessionals, there is a tendency to assume certain attri-
butes are incompatible with an autism diagnosis. 
Elise started looking for explanations midway 
through her sophomore year. “The doctor I saw said, 
‘Nope, nothing wrong.’ I wasn’t satisfied with that, and 
I wanted a second opinion.” She seemed to be in a 
good place to get one: with Yale’s Child Studies Cen-
ter, New Haven is a strong contender for the autism 
research capital of the United States. But that’s not to 
say that Yale-affiliated psychologists are, broadly speak-
ing, equipped to handle the fact that autistic children 
grow up to be autistic adults. Most doctors wouldn’t 
even agree to see her. She was too old, too female, and 
too competent. “One of the reasons for why I couldn’t 
be autistic was ‘Oh, but you got into Yale,’” Elise told 
me. Cue sympathy-babble. No one at Yale has reacted 
to my diagnosis with cruelty, hostility, or even ill intent, 
but I’d heard the same thing before.
There is no one autistic story. There is no one 
“attending Yale while autistic” story, and I haven’t tried 
to write it. According to the Resource Office on Dis-
abilities, there are at least eleven. That’s how many 
Yale students have registered for academic or housing 
accommodations. Judy York, the office’s director, told 
me that the actual number is almost certainly higher. 
I’ve spoken to three. Two more declined to be inter-
viewed. With such a small sample size, I can’t claim 
to be dispelling stereotypes about a marginalized, if 
miniscule, group. This is a call to accuracy, not action. 
I owe my friendship with Joshua* ’15 to unvarnished 
anthropological self-interest. I’d been at Yale for about 
three months and had settled into a socially anxious 
orbit around other Directed Studies students. He was a 
chronically introverted physics major. I hadn’t yet met 
another autistic person at Yale. At that point in my life 
I’d met exactly two, total. Everything I knew about the 
inside view came from blogs, magazine articles, and 
—EW



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Clara Collier**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the occasional memoir. I consumed them all in bulk, 
my curiosity driven by lingering pre-diagnostic doubt. 
(I still have an irrational fear that I’m faking it.) Our 
social circles overlapped at exactly one point. I asked 
our mutual friend to arrange a psychiatric blind date. 
It went well. We ate quickly and then, in a virtuo-
sic display of conformity to stereotype, lectured each 
other on the minutiae of our favorite science fiction 
franchises for almost six hours. Around midnight, 
we started talking case history. Like me, he also had 
ADHD, though he was diagnosed as a young child. In 
high school, they hadn’t believed he had a learning dis-
ability—his grades were too good.

That was less of a problem at Yale. The Resource 
Office on Disabilities offers two services to students 
with developmental disabilities: note taking, for lecture 
classes, and extended time on tests. Joshua used both. 
“The system was incredible,” he told me the last time 
we spoke. He had only one complaint. Many autistic 
people have a marked discrepancy between their verbal 
and quantitative abilities. Joshua, while gifted mathe-
matically, struggles with writing. He described the sus-
tained effort, even for a short paper, as almost physically 
painful. “I couldn’t take lots of courses I wanted to take 
and learn things that I thought would be valuable, in 
philosophy, the humanities, in public policy,” he said. 
Heavy writing requirements effectively prevented him 
from accessing much of the Yale curriculum. 

According to York, students also have access to tutor-
ing, writing assistance, and waivers on core require-
ments. This isn’t always conveyed to the students who 
might need these resources. Not all autistic or devel-
opmentally disabled students are registered with the 
resource office; of those who are (including myself), no 
one I spoke to had heard of these additional accommo-
dations. Personally, I’ve always found York and the rest 
of the resource office staff helpful, especially in seeking 
housing accommodations. For instance, I requested 
and received a single. Academics are harder. Univer-
sities are often less equipped than elementary or high 
schools to address individual autistic students’ very dif-
ferent needs, if only because the cases they encounter 
are fewer and less severe. “It seems unfair to call them 
unhelpful when they’re not really set up to deal with 
someone like me,” Elise said.  Her situation is Josh-
ua’s in reverse: quantitative skills that lag far behind 
her verbal ability. “The things they’re able to provide 
are not relevant to me. So I can’t really blame them for 
that. On the other hand, it was increasingly becoming 
clear that I had a problem fulfilling my science and 
math requirements, and they were patently unhelpful 
in figuring out what to do about it.” 

To find a solution for her particular problem, Elise 
had to bypass the office. After discovering that dyslexic 
students are allowed to use literature classes in transla-
tion to fulfill their foreign language requirement, she 
petitioned Yale for a similar substitution: she would 
take writing-based classes in economics as her QRs. 
“No one knew it was a thing you could do, and I was 
the first ever to have ever done it,” she said. “There was 
no institutional support.” Even so, she doesn’t think 
her autism is an academic liability. “Being an aspie 
is probably why I’m good at studying. It’s not in spite 
of it,” she told me. “I’m good at it because my brain  
works differently.”

Joshua’s worst problems were more social than aca-
demic. Though he got good grades, he struggled with 
social and organizational skills his classmates took for 
granted. He didn’t know how to socialize in a group, 
introduce himself to strangers, or ask girls out on dates. 
“Yale was set up to help me academically,” he told me, 
“but not in other ways. But I blame myself and my 
peers for that, more than the University.” 

When I was in eighth grade, my classmates were 
obsessed with a card game called Mau. The gimmick 
is that new players can’t be told any of the rules—they 
can only learn by being penalized for breaking them, 
and new ones are added every round. The whole thing 
is entertaining for about five minutes, after which you 
want to strangle the grinning adolescent sadist who 
invented it. It’s the best analogue I’ve ever come across 
for trying to have a social life while autistic. The only 
difference is that, in Mau, you won’t be ostracized for 
admitting you don’t know how to play.

Joshua is willing to learn the rules. In an ideal world, 
he said, “people would actively seek me out and strive 
to include me, would listen to me when I say things.” 
This admission made him nervous. Few needs are both 
more basic than companionship, and more impossible 
to demand of others. Joshua wanted to be part of a com-
munity without forcing himself to be the type of person 
it naturally embraced. “People will accuse me of ‘enti-
tlement’ for most of what I’ve said here. They’re right 
“Should we be getting 
treatment to conform 
ourselves to society, or 
should society expand 
its range of acceptable 
behavior?” 


in that I do think I’m entitled to it. I think everyone is 
entitled to it.” 

Zack Williams ’16, the president of SAAAY (Stu-
dents for Autism Awareness At Yale), is an expert on 
the question of autistic behavioral adjustment. His own 
experience with social skills training had been over-
whelmingly positive. That’s why he wants to complete 
an MD/Ph.D. in neuroscience, specializing in autism 
treatment. “I don’t like ABA or anything like that,” he 
said, naming Applied Behavioral Analysis, a common 
behavioral therapy, widely opposed in the autistic com-
munity for its abuse potential and excessive focus on 
normalization. But he says, “exhibiting an autism-like 
behavior is going to impair their social functioning.” 

Behavioral intervention is a divisive issue. Elise, 
among others, takes the opposing view. “I know there’s 
a lot of disagreement—Zack and I have this argument 
all the time.  Should we be getting treatment to con-
form ourselves to society, or should society expand its 
range of acceptable behavior?” She shook her head. 
“Maybe it’s because I was diagnosed so late—I’ve been 
doing all this work, now you guys can do some work 
and adapt.”

That was when I realized I was making an effort to 
avoid her eyes. The same thing had happened when I 
met Joshua. Both times, I’d found myself anxious not 
to look too normal. After years spent learning body 
language’s most common dialect, I’d forgotten how to 
move and act and speak unnaturally—that is to say, 
like an autistic person. I tend to agree more with Elise, 
if only because it’s unsettling to think how much of 
my behavior is adapted from parents and teachers and 
occupational therapists in an attempted regression to 
the behavioral mean. 

Social skills are always learned, even if most people 
don’t take notes. It’s harder for me, and I work harder 
to compensate. But I can choose to socialize with the 
people who meet me halfway. That gets easier as the 
world gets bigger. Joshua is happier since graduation 
from Yale. “It’s a combination of a change in meds, 
being with people who shared my values, and being 
more mature,” he said. “Not sure how much of each.” 

I’m lucky enough to have found close friends at Yale, 
as are Elise and Zack. “Everything before Yale was a lot 
worse,” Elise said. “I have a lot more friends now than 
I did then. A lot of it is we are incredibly nerdy gener-
ally. We are a university of nerdy people. I went to a 
very small high school. There were fifty people over six 
years. How many nerds is that? Like four.” 

“Nerdy” is an interesting proxy for autistic. In defi-
ance of taste and popular opinion, some of us don’t 
even watch Star Trek. But before “nerdy” connoted 
awkward, persecuted schoolyard intellectualism, it just 
meant weird—and that’s in the most pejorative sense. 
(A similar alchemy has affected the word “geek,” which 
originally referred to a circus performer who bit the 
heads off live chickens). For all the benefits and draw-
backs of our neurotype, the costs and consequences, 
I’m most defensive of our involuntary idiosyncrasies. 

Elise said it more concretely: “On the one hand, I 
made spreadsheets of my toys when I was 7. But how 
many 7-year-olds know how to make spreadsheets?”

TV autism—think Sherlock Holmes or Spock—is all 
social isolation and dazzling brilliance, as if the two 
could balance each other out. In real life, though, neu-
rochemistry doesn’t have to play fair. My autism isn’t a 
good thing or a bad thing, it’s just me. 
*Joshua and Elise asked that their names and  
identifying information be changed. 
— Clara Collier is a sophomore  
in Berkeley College. 


**Title: #SpiritSquad END NOTE**
**Author: Azeezat Adeleke**
**Page number(s): 36**

On psychic fairs, the tarot, and millennial angst
I am a twenty-year-old college junior and terrible 
at making decisions—the sort of person who agonizes 
for an hour about which pack of white socks to buy 
on Amazon. I have a handle on my immediate future; 
the rainbow tiles of my Google Calendar are a warm, 
constant presence in my life. But beyond tomorrow 
or next week or next month, I am at a loss as to how to 
make Decisions about The Future. People say follow your 
dreams, but I am not destined to become Aziz Ansari’s 
personal assistant. I have tried going to Yale’s Office of 
Career Strategy, but the well-meaning people there ask 
way too many questions: What do you want to do? What 
are your passions? If I knew, I would not have trekked half 
a mile to their office in the first place.

As twentysomethings growing up in this era, we 
are privileged to have so many more options than 
our parents. (Amazon offers 348,353 search results for 
“white socks.”) But, sometimes, too much choice can 
be paralyzing. For this reason, I have decided to see  
the psychics. 

In early November, I travel to two weekend psychic 
fairs. The first is in the Best Western Plus hotel in 
North Haven, which exudes the sort of muted despair 
I associate with bland, you-could-be-anywhere-in-
America architecture. The second is in the Hyatt 
Regency in Greenwich, whose lobby is comically ritzy, 
filled with trees that reach up two stories, climbing vines, 
shrubs, a lazy river, a pond, a waterfall, and glowing 
lanterns. I Instagram it immediately. Outside each hotel 
is a small lawn sign staked a foot from the highway:  
Psychic Fair Today!

Psychics don’t have the best reputation. If we 
examine the foundation of our shared cultural memory, 
Harry Potter, we find a typical portrayal of the psychic: 
Professor Sybill Trelawney. She bumbles around 
Hogwarts with her crystal balls, making predictions 
that range from the laughably vague to the absurdly 
alarmist, serving mostly as comic relief.

In the real world, high-profile seers don’t get much 
respect, either. Nancy Reagan consulted the stars before 
making any important decisions—for that reason, her 
husband’s 1967 swearing in as governor of California 
took place at 12:10 a.m. Later, an embarrassed President 
Reagan insisted to reporters, “No policy or decision in 
my mind has ever been influenced by astrology.”  (Too 
bad—maybe the constellations could have saved us 
from trickle-down economics.) 

In the best case, I will leave these hotel lobbies with 
clear next steps. In the worst case, I’ll find myself in 
a small room with a bunch of Sybill Trelawneys. But 
remember: Professor Trelawney was wrong ninety-nine 
percent of the time. The other one percent of the time, 
she did indeed have the power to prophesize. 

When I get to the Best Western, I take a picture with 
the psychic fair sign for my Snapchat Story. This is 
partly to announce what a cool Saturday I’m having 
and partly to leave the police a precise geographic 
location of my whereabouts in case the Spirits don’t 
want to let me go. I gather my courage, step through 
the sliding glass doors, and head inside. I walk into a 
small conference room decorated in chain-hotel chic. 
To my right, about nine psychic readers sit behind 
—EW



**Title: The Future in Twelve Cards**
**Author: Azeezat Adeleke**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
FEBRUARY 2016
 37
individual tables, facing their clients. To my left, a few 
rows of chairs form a waiting area where people pass 
the time until they’re called up for their appointment 
with destiny. Someone is playing gauzy New Age music 
from an old iPod. Most of the people look old enough 
to be my parents or grandparents. 

Inside, I reach for my wallet and realize I have 
no cash. “Do you take —” I start to ask. “Yes,” says 
Reverend Robert Stempson. He’s been organizing 
these psychic fairs since 1984, through his for-profit 
business, the Programs for Human Development. PHD 
puts on four psychic fairs a month across Connecticut. 
Stempson doesn’t sit behind a crystal ball; he has a 
MacBook and a cash register. His white hair and beard, 
combined with a checkered button-down shirt and 
khakis, make him look like a high school principal on 
his day off. He swipes my debit card. Fifteen dollars for 
fifteen minutes. I am a little poorer, but I figure it’s a 
small price to pay to resolve The Future. 

My first interaction is a disaster. Starr, a medium 
wearing librarian chic—lilac shirt underneath a 
lavender cardigan—sits behind a table covered with 
Dragon’s Blood herbs, Magic Pagan incense, a Hindu 
om charm, a crucified Jesus, a seated Buddha. I just want 
to interview her, but then she tries to squeeze in some 
psychic predictions. She made one banal observation 
(I like to write, go figure—I’m carrying a notebook). 
And then she goes for it: “You got a grandmother that 
was a slave. Do you know about it?”  I try not to roll 
my eyes. My grandparents all live in Nigeria. No one 
in my family was ever a slave. And besides, even if my 
family were American, my grandmother would have to 
be approximately 150 years old to have been a slave in 
this country. Millennials do a lot of things well, and 
one of them is refusing to put up with weird racial 
commentary from old white people. Some people may 
say that this means we are “coddled.” I feel bad for these 
people—they didn’t get to grow up in my America. 

When I return to Stempson to choose my reading, the 
Tarot is on my mind. A few weeks ago I acquired a little 
book called The Symbolism of the Tarot: Philosophy 
of the Occultism in Pictures and Numbers, originally 
published in Russia in 1913 by a mathematician and 
“esotericist” named P.D. Ouspensky. He explains 
that the Tarot is a pack of fifty-six cards divided into 
four suits (scepters, cups, swords, and pentacles), plus 
twenty-two more numbered cards with special names 
like The High Priestess and The Hanged Man. 
According to Ouspensky, the Tarot is no game. It is a 
diagram of the universe. In the center, there’s a single 
card: The Fool, representing man. The twenty-one 
other named cards are placed around it, in a triangle 
with seven cards on each side. This is the Christian 
Trinity—God. On the outside, the fifty-six remaining 
cards form a square, representing the physical universe. 
That is to say: everything is the Tarot and the Tarot 
is everything.  

I scan through the options on Stempson’s table: 
Barbara S. reads the stars, James is a clairvoyant and 
medium (and does a lot of readings with a blindfold on), 
Ivory reads playing cards, and Barbara D. is a medium 
and a pet psychic. I wonder what sort of person would 
want to have a conversation with their dead parakeet or 
Pekingese. Then I see Heather: warm brown eyes and 
a kind face that patients must be happy to see at the 
hospital where she works as a nurse. And she reads the 
Tarot. Heather’s the one. 

I sit down across from her and shuffle the cards, 
clumsily. I’ve never met with a psychic before. It’s 
the sort of activity that my immigrant parents would 
consider haram, or at least highly suspicious. 

I make three equal-sized stacks with the cards 
facing down. I pull one card from each stack and 
then place it on top, facing up. I will do this four 
times in our fifteen-minute session: The Future in 
twelve cards. First, a wizened old man holding a staff 
and a glowing lantern. “The Hermit is going within, 
having a lot of a connection to spirit,” Heather says. 
“When you go to sleep at night you can ask spirit to 
help you to answer questions or to take you where you 
want to go.” But to this day, my dreams remain a mix 
of petty embarrassments (sleeping through finals) and 
embarrassing absurdities (Justin Bieber is my next door 
neighbor and we go surfing together).  

I pull the Ace of Pentacles, a hand reaching through 
a white cloud and holding a glowing sphere. “This is 
a new beginning coming with money,” Heather says. 
Thank god. Here, I almost insert a quip about how little 
money is in my Wells Fargo account. I imagine myself 
spinning around in a shower of $100 and $50 bills, 
grinning. Spirit, you are too kind.  

In a second, Heather holds up the Page of Cups, a 
young guy grasping a golden goblet. She asks if I’m 
dating anyone right now. I hesitate. “Kind of,” I say. 
I am in a thing right now, after becoming a little too 
comfortable with the rhythmic swiping of Tinder. But 
this thing is missing an emotional center. Out loud, 
it’s easy to blame hookup culture—why don’t we care 
about true romance? But that’s just me parroting the 
typical line. In all honesty, I wonder if I’m incapable 
of affection. 

“There’s more of a love relationship coming in for 
you,” Heather says after I pull the Two of Cups. “A 
heart connection.” It’s not like Heather gives me a 
name or a date. But: Love, actually…Eventually. The 


--- Page 38 ---

 38
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
rational me says that this is an obvious conclusion: of 
course I would find love, most people do. But I have to 
admit that I feel relief wash over me.

As the remaining fifteen minutes turn into ten 
and then five, Justice tells me that what I’m studying 
is “meant to be.” Eight of Swords says I need to stop 
worrying so much, and The Hanged Man assures 
me that, with my divine connection, I will get the  
answers in time. 

The psychics are purveyors of suspended disbelief. 
Optimism is so elusive because pessimism—about the 
depressing lunacy of our politics, the catastrophe of 
climate change, the persistence of religious extremism, 
the ambient fear of gun massacres—feels like it has 
been the underlying emotion in the United States for 
the past couple of decades (as long as I’ve been alive). 
That pessimism has seeped from the national narrative 
into our own lives. 

The psychic fair offers instant validation. All you 
have to do is hand over a bit of money—and what’s 
more American than that? 

As I sit in the hotel lobby, watching my Uber inch 
closer to me on the virtual map, I think about why I 
came here: to see what the psychics could offer a young 
person from this generation, cultured by snark streaked 
with sincerity, raised during a tumultuous time. At the 
fairs, I ran into only a couple of people my age; the 
prime demographic seemed to be middle-aged women 
who burn a lot of incense. But in a single afternoon, 
I had been promised that someone will love me, that 
I will be rich, that I’m on the right path. While my 
political science courses tell me that good public 
policy is the only way to save America from flaming 
ruin, perhaps what I need is the optimism of the Tarot.
— Azeezat Adeleke is a junior
in Berkeley College.


**Title: From the Editors’ Desk**
**Author: Maya Averbuch & Caroline Sydney**
**Page number(s): 38**

Dear readers,

This brief letter serves as both an introduction and a 
sign-off: we will not be at the helm of the publication 
for the upcoming issue. For the past year, we’ve been 
working behind the scenes to bring you The New Journal 
by helping our writers share their reporting with you. 
Just as the school year is unpredictable, so too is the ebb 
and flow of the news cycle. We hope you’ve learned as 
much as we have while following our reporters along 
on their trips, from basement parties in New Haven to 
doomsday-preppers’ homes in suburban Connecticut, 
from cornfields in Mexico to protests at the heart of Yale. 
Thank you for supporting us in all our endeavors. We 
look forward to joining you, our readers, when we open 
the next issue of the magazine in April.  




**Constructing Jewish Gender**
**Author: Moshe Rosman**
**Page number(s): 40**

Moshe Rosman was born in Chicago, USA and studied at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America and Columbia University. He has lived in 
Israel since 1979 where he teaches in the Koschitzky Department of Jewish History at Bar Ilan University. In 2010 he served as the Horace Goldsmith Visiting 
Professor at Yale. Rosman specializes in the history of the Jews in the early modern period in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. His books include:  
The Lords’ Jews: Magnate-Jewish Relations in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth; Founder of Hasidism: A Quest for the Historical Ba’al Shem Tov; and How 
Jewish Is Jewish History? 


sponsored by the judaic studies program at yale university
For information, please contact Renee Reed at (203) 432-0843 or renee.reed@yale.edu
5:00 pm  •  Comparative Literature Library, Bingham Hall, 300 College St., 8th Floor 
March 2
A Protofeminist’s Challenge to Gender 
Order: Leah Horowitz’s Tekhino Imohos
Reception to follow


March 8
Gender Under Construction:  
From Genesis To Hasidism


March 10
Reconstructing Gender: Market, 
Literature, Halakhah, Synagogue


the stanley j. arffa lecture series
Moshe Rosman
Professor of Jewish History
Bar Ilan University

