Publication date: December 12, 1974
Volume: eight
Issue number: three

**MASTHEAD**
- Editor-in-Chief: David Sleeper
- Executive Editor: Daniel Denton
- Managing Editor: Stephen Sternbach
- Designer: Marla Schay
- Associate Editor: Michael Jacobson
- Circulation Manager: Nancy Olcott
- Business Manager: Robert A Cohen
- Publisher: Brian D. Raub


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- A note from the editor
- Our brother's thinker?
- The Brewster Years: A Question of Survival - Brooks Mather Kelley


**Title: A note from the editor**
**Author: (Unlisted)**
**Page number(s): 2**

A frequently asked question these 
days is "When will Kingman Brewster 
step down?" Rumor has it that he will 
depart soon. The Yale he leaves will be 
vastly different from the one he inheri-
ted in 1963. We hope that this issue of 
The New J oumal will cause people to 
reflect on how Yale has changed in the 
last decade. Brooks Mather Kelley, 
the author of the main article, gradua· 
ted from Yale in 1953 Sl!.d received his 
Ph.D. in history from the University 
of Chicago in 1960. Last March he 
published Yale, A History, which 
ended with A. Whitney Griswold's 
death. Kelley realizes the risks invol· 
ved in analyzing a current presidency. 
He admits, "Over a period of time, 
some things I have stressed in my ar-
ticle may not seem as important as 
they do now." 

The New Journal will set aside 
space in its next issue for responses to 
the Brewster article.


**Title: Our brother's thinker?**

On May 5, 1972, John McGuerty, 
Director of the New Haven City Plan 
Department, went to Yale's 
Woodbridge Hall to discuss 
with Yale officials the plans for two 
new residential colleges which the 
university hoped to build on Grove 
and Temple Streets. He was anxious 
for the meeting; McGuerty wanted 
to assure, among other things, that 
the new buildings would not disrupt 
the surrounding area. But when he 
entered Woodbridge's second-floor 
Corporation Room he found laid out 
on the long table a minutely detailed 
scale model of the proposed complex. 
From the first, McGuerty had objec-
tions to the model, but theY ale of-
ficials present made it clear to him 
that the plans were in a very ad· 
vanced stage and could only be 
changed at great expense. The uni-
versity would begin its final working 
drawings and construction, he was 
told, as soon as the New Haven 
Aldermen approved the plan. 

But the Aldermen never approved 
the plan and the university has 
temporarily laid plans for the two 
(!()Il~Ilt~--------------c-o_ll_e_g~ 
__ to 
__ res 
__ t_.T __ 
he_ m_·_o_·d-en_t_in 
__ th 
__ 
e _ 
comment: Michael Jacobson discusses the troubling Yale-New 
Haven relationship during Kingman Brewster's 
administration; John Etra ponders the moral and 
aesthetic implications of a hatless Brewster. 



**Title: The Brewster Years: A Question of Survival**
**Author: Brooks Mather Kelley**
**Page number(s): 2-3, 14**

A history of Kingman Brewster's Yale 
Corporation Room underlines anum· 
ber of themes in the recent history 
of Yale-New Haven relations. Most 
important has been the lack of con-
tinuous dialogue between the univer· 
sity and the city engendered by what 
has been, until quite recently, Yale's 
insensitivity to New Haven's needs. 

Among the things Kingman Brew-
ster inherited from President A. 
Whitney Griswold was a cordial 
relationship with then Mayor of New 
Haven, Richard C. Lee. It was a val· 
uable relationship. During the 1950's 
and early 1960's, Yale benifited more 
from Lee's nationally heralded urban 
renewal program than did most New 
Havenites. Lee's first project, the 
Oak Street slum clearance, paved the 
way for the expansion of the Yale 
Medical School. In 1955, Yale paid 
New Haven well above the market 
price to have the Hillhouse and 
Boardman Commercial High Schools 
removed from the spot where Stiles 
and Morse Colleges now stand. 

Lee accomplished his renewal pro· 
gram by creating a parallel govern· 
ment of appointed bureaucrats, thus 
short-circuiting any input from the 
city's traditional power bases (the 
Democratic Party machine), and the 
community. Consequently, neither 
Griswold nor Brewster, who became 
president in 1963, had to deal with 
those groups either. They simply 
worked with Lee or his bureaucrats. 

The fast-paced, feaerally funded 
days of urban renewal also allowed 
the university to ~porarily push 
aside what had always been a divi· 
sive issue between Yale and New 
Haven: the issue of taxation. 

In 1967, the black neighborhoods 
Lee had neglected for so long rioted. 
Although riots occurred nationally 
that summer, two-issues were unique 
to New Haven. The black leaders 
demanded a larger say in Lee's 
program, and insisted that Yale do 
something for the people of ~ ew 
Haven, whom, the leaders said, the 
university had totally neglected. The 
latter claim was not entirely true. 
Since 1965 Yale had sponsored such 
programs as the U.S. Grant Founda-
tion, theY ale Summer High School, 
and the Intensive Summer Studies 
Program (ISSP)-all helping disad· 
vantaged youths. These programs, 
however, reflected actions by indi· 
viduals within theY ale community .. 
rather than official university policy. 

In 1968, Yale had plans for further 
physical expansion, but still no co-
ordinated policy for dealing with 
New Haven's needs. 

In response to community pres· 
sure in New Haven and to growing 
urban problems in the nation at 
large, President Brewster acknow-
ledged in 1968 that Yale did have an 
obligation to its urban community. 
Nevertheless, he put limits on where 
that obligation could lead Yale. Sinee 
becoming president, Brewster had 
stressed that Yale's "mission" in the 
world was to be a sanctuary for 
scholars and students. In the late 
1960's, Brewster felt Yale's "mission" 
challenged by a soCiety which wished 
to use universities to solve social 
problems. Brewster feared, as bad 
Griswold, that Yale would become a 
"service station" for needy com· 
munity groups. Yale could never 
help all those groups, Brewster as· 
serted, and so he felt Yale should 
take on only those tasks that would 
not divert it from its central purpose. 
"We are, in short," Brewster wrote 
in 1968, "best equipped to be our 
brother's thinker." Through scholar-
ly enterprises like the proposed Insti· 
tution for Social and Policy Studies, 
Brewster felt Yale would pioneer in 
devising theories to solve the 
national problem of urban blight. Aft, 
a theory, Brewster's idea was per· 
haps noble. But for a university 
which owned 36 per cent of the tax 
exempt land, was the city'slargest 
employer, and whose students were 
rapidly devouring the city's housing, 
the concept of being "our brother's 
thinker" was entirely inadequate. 

Brewster sought to implement his 
ideas about Yale and New Haven by 
establishing in 1968 the Council on 
Community Affairs. Directed by C. 
Tracy Barnes ('33), the 12-man coun· 
cil was charged with establishing 
links with the community and 
devising a strategy for dealing with 
the city. From the beginning there 
were serious problems with the 
Council. Apparently because of 
Brewster's concern with Yale's 
"mission" and because of his tenden· 
cy to view the situation in national 
terms, he was reluctant to appoint 
men to the Council familiar with the 
community. With few exceptions, 
Brewster appointed sons of Eli who 
had acquired reputations either at 
Yale or nationally. Only Ernest 
Osborne, who had been with theRe-
development Agency, Herbert Ca-
hoon, Director of Yale Volunteer 
Services, and Samuel.Slie, an as-
( continued on page 14) 


**Page number(s): 3**

A. Whitney Griswold, the sixteenth leader of 
Yale, died of cancer on April19, 1963. Under the 
Yale Corporation's by-laws the recently appointed 
provost, forty-three year old Kingman Brewster, 
Jr., became acting president. He was, as well, the 
leading candidate for head of the university, and it 
was rumored that Griswold had wanted him to 
have the post. Despite Brewster's pre-eminence 
as a candidate, the Corporation spent the spring 
and summer studying the nature of the office and 
seeking nominees. Having made all the necessary 
motions (whether they were real or symbolic will 
not be known until the committee records are 
opened many years from now), the Corporation 
elected Kingman Brewster president in October 
1963. 

The new president appeared in many ways to 
fit the traditional mold of a leader of Yale. Of 
impeccable lineage (a descendant of the famous 
Brewster of the Mayflower), he had attended Yale, 
served as chairman of the News, been tapped for 
Skull and Bones (which he refused because he dis-
approved of the secrecy of senior societies), and 
selected by his class as the one "who had done 
most for Yale." After service as a navy pilot 
in World War II, Brewster had attended Harvard 
Law School and then, after a brief tour with the 
Marshall Plan and a period at M.I.T., he had re-
turned to Harvard to serve on the faculty. He had 
been brought to Yale in 1!}60 as·provost by his 
summer neighbor on Martha's Vineyard, Whitney 
Griswold. 

Brewster believed deeply in freedom, respon-
sibility, and the need to make moral choices. 
He thought success should be related to effort and 
that the fullness of life could be measured by the 
extent to which a man felt he had an impact on the 
lives of others. He was convinced a leader should 
act decisiv~ly. Withal, he was fundamentally a 
pragmatist. Unlike most of his predecessors in 
the presidential office, he was ttot an intellectual. 
As he confessed to Time magazine, "I get more 
stimulation by talking to people than by retreat-
ing to the library-it's out of the hurly-burly 
that I get my ideas." The change from Griswold 
was noticeable. Time observed that Brewster 
was "an ear-wearying speaker whose official utter-
ances are frequently pedantic and dull." They 
were sometimes repetitive in content as well. His 
written reports often lacked clarity and eloquence. 
In small groups the president was at his best-
here his wit, intelligence, and sense of fun could 
come quickly to the fore. Although he later 
largely overcame the failings in his speaking and 
writing, those shortcomings-along with a some-
what naive assumption that Yale's greatness 
needed no selling to anyone-were rapidly to com-
plicate his relations with the always powerful 
alumni of Yale College. 

Those difficulties were hidden in the future, 
however, as Brewster' a presidency began with the 
most elaborate inaugural ceremony-even includ-
ing a ball in Ingalls Rink-ever seen at conser-
vative old Yale. Charles, it seemed, was succeed-
ing Cromwell. 

1 The bonanza years 
Kingman Brewster's goal for Yale, as he soon 
made clear, was to make it the very best in every-
thing it tried to do, and to justify its existence by 
sharing its greatness with others via television 
and other modem devices. He wanted to make 
sure that Yale had as great an impact on the 
generation to come as it had on the generation 
past. To these ends, he intended to organize it 
well, to see that it used its existing financial and 
intellectual resources to the full, and to increase 
those resources to enable it to do more things 
better. 

One of Brewster's first efforts was to modern-
ize university organization. During the Griswold 
era the university's expenditures had grown from 
$15 million to nearly $50 million, but administra-
tive development had lagged behind the rapid 
change. No doubt the university was better or-
ganized than it had been in Charles Seymour's 
day nearly 30 years before (when the president 
could still take the time to personally reject a re-
quest from the dean of Yale College for $300 to 
purchase maps for teaching), but there still re-
mained much to do to bring the institution under



**Yale's Financial and Social Upheaval: 1960-1970**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4-6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
control and see that it did not waste its financial 
resources. 

Thus under the president's direction, Howard 
Phelan was hired from Arthur Little & Co. to be-
come Director of Operations, new business person-
nel were employed, and major changes were made 
in the treasurer's office. The chart of accounts 
was revised and computerized, thereby increas-
ing the number of individual university accounts 
from 15,000 to 65,000 (the number has now 
reached 100,000). By 1972 the Office of Adminis-
trative Data Systems was using the computer to 
such an extent that it cost $1.2 million a year. 
These changes and others were all intended to 
reveal just what total amount was expended in 
running the university and where the money went. 
In the past, certain expenditures with offsetting 
income (largely government sponsored research) 
had been netted in the treasurer's reports; now all 
transactions were shown. Because of these new 
techniques, university expenditures which were 
shown as $57 million in 1964-65 apparently 
jumped to $79 million in 1965-66-actual expen-
ditures increased nowhere near as much. 

Another highly significant step was an at-
tempt to use the endowment more fully and freely. 
The endowment fund managers were to be allowed 
to spend not only income but a part of capital 
gains. The fund's managers would then be re-
leased from the need to invest for income and could 
purchase growth stocks providing little or no im-
mediate return. To get more knowledgeable han-
dling of the funds, the university set up its own 
investment counseling firm, owned half by the 
university and half by the firm's active managers. 

The new directors of Yale's finances (inside 
the university and out) were incredibly optimistic 
about their methods. They were convinced they 
could show everyone else how best to handle a uni-
versity's funds. The president was equally 
well. Shortly after Brewster took office he saw 
many things he wanted to do immediately. Pick-
ing up a phrase of Griswold's, he began to speak 
of Yale's "educational deficit," by which he meant 
"the best estimate of your officers and trustees 
about how much more it would cost annually to 
bring Yale to a standard of educational quality 
completely worthy of her best traditions and po-
tential.'' To begin to overcome the educational 
deficit, Brewster did not think it unwise to suffer, 
for a time, a financial deficit. The university he 
inherited was after all, more prosperous than it had 
ever been. In any case, to begin to do the things 
that needed doing, Yale immediately started prac-
ticing deficit spending. In 1963-64, the gap be-
tween income and expense amounted to $540,265 
and was projected for over a million dollars in 
1964-65. As Brewster explained, these deficits 
reflected "a deliberate corporate judgment that 
Yale will be stronger in the long run if we make 
certain operating improvements now, even though 
it may diminish slightly our pool of unrestricted 
capital for the future." 

Thus it was that during what were later called 
"the bonanza years" Yale's expenditures went 
from a "new" accounting $79 million in 1965-66 
to $125 million in 1969-70. At the same time, the 
university suffered a deficit every single year 
(though university officials never mention a defi-
cit prior to 1966-67). In 1966-67, when there was a 
deficit of $300,000,-the smallest deficit between 
1963-64 and 1972-73-the treasurer wrote, "An 
Operating Surplus evidences lack of achievement 
rather than good management if educational qual-
ity can be improved." And the following year a 
$600,000 deficit was dismissed as "not itself a 
matter for sharp concern." 

In fact, it should have been a matter of the 
very deepest concern, for Yale had failed to recall 
the parable of the seven fat years and the seven 
lean years. The university's period of prosperity 
was rapidly coming to a close. The stock market 
began to fall, tax reform proposals dangerous to 
colleges dependent on charity were in the air, gov-
ernment policies were about to change, inflation 
was increasing rapidly, and the alumni were be-
coming constantly more discontented over certain 
Yale policies. 

Not until 1968-69 did the treasurer begin to 
recognize that Yale's deficits were not due only to 
rising expenses or minor accounting errors, but to 
"short-falls in estimates of income, attributable in 
some measure to over-optimism." Increasingly 
large deficits were predicted for the years imme-
diately ahead. Cut-backs began to be made in 
numerous areas. "Significant" reductions in 
"activities both academic and administrative" 
were predicted. Due to over-optimism the uni-
versity now faced the future with the deepest 
gloom. 

From optimism to alarm


Yale's problems were not hers alone (many 
other private universities were in even worse 
shape), but some of the reasons were peculiar to 
Yale. As far as the general situation was con-
cerned, for years Griswold and others had warned 
that the universities were not making their true 
costs clear to the public. Furthermore, they noted 
that the people called for education but were not 
willing to pay the real price for it. The temper of 
alarm in academic circles dropped off somewhat 
during the prosperous days of the late fifties and 
sixties, only to rise again late in the decade. In 
June 1967 Time magazine noted that "Behind the 
impressive facades of most private universities 
and colleges there is a deep concern. They are in 
grave financial trouble." While his treasurer was 
still talking optimistically in his reports, Brewster 
was quoted as saying that Yale "has never had a 
more difficult financial prospect." The university 
was said to be facing "an annual operating deficit 
of more than $15 million by 1977." Many others 
thought in one way or another that the private 
universities were facing "imminent bankruptcy." 

Yale's administration had seen the need for 
aggressive fund-raising very early. In November 
1964 the university revealed that it wanted consi-
derably more than $100 million in capital funds, 
without even including necessary programs for 
the Divinity, Drama, and Music Schools. Areas of 
importance were additional library space, a build-
ing for engineering and applied sciences, and 
massive expenditures for the Medical School. 
Very high on the list of priorities at this time was 
a great new social science building. As Brewster 
viewed the "strategy" of the university-a favor-
ite approach of the president's-he thought he 
saw a great breakthrough coming in the social 
and behavioral sciences. Yale must develop those 
areas, he believed, if it were not to be left behind 
as it had been in the scientific explosion of the 
1920's and 1930's. 

The 1964 needs were merely a preliminary 
estimate. As Yale's new managers ("technocrats 
of the educational world," Professor Paul Weis 
called them) studied the university's needs over 
the next ten years, the figures grew and grew. By 
1967 they had decided that Yale must raise nearly 
a billion dollars from all sources over the next ten 
years. Of this amount the alumni fund would have 
to come up with nearly $45 million, and gifts from 
private sources for endowment and facilities must


--- Page 5 ---

reach $388 million (later raised to $443 million 
after Yale College became coeducational). This 
great sum, Brewster announced, was "The Cost 
of Quality." 

Yale intended to raise the needed funds not 
by "primary" reliance on a crash campaign 
(though not announced, one was planned to begin 
about 1970), but by seeking out "the several hun-
dred members of each generation whose assets 
would allow them to be philanthropists of 
capital significance." If these men would remem-
ber Yale's "significance to them and believe in 
her significance to the nation," the university 
would achieve its enormous goal. 

There was, however, one sizeable difficulty 
standing between Yale and the great achieve-
ments her imaginative, creative, and courageous 
managers foresaw. The university was losing the 
support of a significant part of the Yale 
College alumni. 

A sizeable neglect


Every Yale president has to deal with various 
constituencies-the students, the faculty, the 
alumni, the city of New Haven, the state, the 
federal government, the public at large. The 
interests of these groups (as well as their capacity, 
or desire, for trouble-making) are often dissimilar, 
and balancing their demands is a difficult politi-
cal feat. At first, Brewster appears to have been 
most interested in the concerns of faculty and 
students-towards the end of the sixties, the stu-
dents were to overshadow everyone else. The 
president began by showing a somewhat arrogant 
disregard for the concerns of the alumni of Yale 
College and often seemed to take their support for 
granted. Public relations, when practiced at all, 
consisted of "splashy" appointments which would 
make headlines in the New York Times. Still, 
Yale might have kept the support of its graduates 
had not other factors combined to alienate them 
and to confirm their distrust of the president. 

Admissions procedures, as they had earlier in 
the century, became a point of sizeable controver-
sy. Brewster had inherited from Griswold's era a 
powerful and persuasive program for the future of 
Yale College in the Freshman Year Report of 1962. 
In addition to calling for coeducation, one of its 
key recommendations had been for the admission 
of a much more intellectually oriented student 
body. President Brewster appears to have accept-
ed most of the recommendations of the report-
indeed, it became nearly a blueprint for his 
approach to the College. In his first appearance 
before a Yale club, he announced that academic 
excellence was Yale's primary business and there-
fore it must seek out those with the highest 
intellectual and moral capacities. This message 
could not have been a popular one with many 
"Old Blues," for Yale's alumni, as a little research 
would have shown the president, have always 
valued character over intellect. 

Nevertheless, Brewster plunged ahead. With 
his goal of a more scholarly student body 
linked with a policy (voted in May 1963) of 
financial aid for anyone who needed it, there soon 
occurred a striking change in the student body. In 
1960, 26 per cent of the class admitted were 
alumni sons. Seven years later only 14 per cent 
of the class admitted were the sons of alumni. 
Throughout the 1950's, students from private 
schools made up over 50 per cent of every class. 
By 1967 this group had dropped to 38 per cent. 
Another major change, produced by the civil 
rights movement, was the addition of blacks. In 
the class of 1962, just three had been admitted; 
the class of 1973 contained 96 black men and 
women. Many graduates tended to view Yale as 
"their" college and were outraged over these 
changes. Perhaps the bitter pill might have been 
made more palatable if it had been offered to them 
more slowly, with some skill, and a certain amount 
of sugar coating. Instead, the university's 
young Dean of Admissions, R. Inslee Clark 
(B.A. 1957), tended to make what some felt were 
ill-considered statements, which infuriated alumni 
and private school administrators alike. At the 
same time, Yale seemed to make a conscious effort 
to conceal the fact that alumni sons still had a 
better chance of being accepted in the college than 
their less favored schoolmates. 

By October 1966 the annoyance of Yale grad-
uates was so obvious that Brewster was forced to 
defend the admissions procedures in the 
Yale Alumni Magazine and the Alumni Board felt 
called upon to investigate the whole question. 
Unfortunately, the board's report, which appeared 
in 1967, did nothing to dispel alumni anger. 
The chairman of the committee concluded, "it 
appears that Yale's administration is providing 
the leadership, foresight and facilities to handle 
today's problems and enable Yale to maintain its 
tradition of excellence." Few alumni believed him. 

The alumni, in fact, may no longer have been 
capable of being persuaded. Too much more was 
happening that disturbed them. 

Women, radicals, and ROTC


Part of the problem undoubtedly was due to a 
series of things done by Yale and men at Yale of 
which the largely conservative alumni disap-
proved. First, the University Chaplain, William 
Sloane Coffin, made newspaper headlines as a 
peripatetic warrior in the civil rights confronta-
tions of the early 1960's. Then, Martin Luther 
King was given an honorary degree in 1964. 
After that, the divisive war in Vietnam began to 
cause problems at Yale, just as it did in the coun-
try at large. Here again, Coffin was in the front 
rank, but this time he shared the limelight with an 
attractive young assistant professor of history, 
Staughton Lynd. An outspoken proponent of the 
New Left, Lynd was already a subject of 
controversy when he took a trip to Hanoi with 
Herbert Aptheker and Thomas Hayden over 
Christmas 1965 to attempt to clarify North 
Vietnam's peace terms. Brewster reacted by 
pushing the powers of his office as far-per-
haps even farther-than he legitimately could: 
he called Lynd to his office to try to discover if the 
young teacher was sincere in his opinions. 

This action scarcely satisfied many Yale alumni. 
Forgetting the fact that the university had a 
greater responsibility to protect the rights of free-
dom of speech and action than a business 
corporation, they called for Yale to fire Coffin and 
Lynd. 

As the war in Vietnam dragged on and created 
ever-deepening divisions between Americans, so it 
also increasingly divided the university from its 
graduates. When Coffin was indicted in 
January 1968 (along with Benjamin Spock [B.A. 
1925] and others) for conspiring to persuade 
young men to give up their draft cards, and then 
was reappointed University Chaplain while still 
under indictment, many graduates felt that their 
worst fears about Yale had been justified. That 
Lynd was not reappointed by the history depart-
ment, that same year, received no acclaim. 

As if all these problems were not enough, 
Yale announced in the fall of 1968 that it would 
admit 500 women as undergraduates the next 
year. To some alumni this action marked the end 
of old Yale. 

The story of Yale's move to coeducation is 
long and complex, but the major points worth 
noting are that after the Freshman Year 
Report of 1962 recommended the admission of 
women, little was done until the spring of 1966. 
Then, President Brewster announced that the 
corporation had laid down certain guidelines 
which were to control future deliberations on the 
subject: the corporation did not favor admit-
ting women if it meant reducing the number of 
male undergraduates; the admission of women 
must be underwritten by sufficient funds to 
maintain the quality of the university; and, if 
studies indicated the desirability of coeducation, 
the corporation preferred it to be achieved by 
means of a coordinated woman's college, rather 
than by the expansion of Yale College. 

(Strangely, Brewster's 1972 memorandum on co-
education says the corporation never discussed 
the matter until 1967). 

In December 1966 it was revealed that Yale 
had invited Vassar to study the possibility of 
moving to New Haven. But the migration was 
not to be. In the face of large-scale alumnae 
opposition, Vassar decided on November 20, 1967 
to remain in Poughkeepsie. Brewster, though ex-
pressing disappointment, said that the studies 
with Vassar had at least clarified Yale's think-
ing about the problem and given some specific 
idea of the cost. One thing was certain, he de-
clared, and it was that coeducation would come to 
Yale in the form of a coordinate college which 
would allow Yale to "educate women not as a 
direct by-product of educating men." 

One year later the impatient Yale students


--- Page 6 ---

decided to try a bit of coeducation on their own. 
They held a coeducation week from November 4 to 
November 11, 1968. On November 6, Brewster 
told them, "by 1972 ... there will be women at 
Yale." Three days later, the president received a 
petition from 1700 students and visiting coeds 
requesting: 

1) equal admission for men and women for 
the class of 1973; 2) a limited number of 
transfer students to be added to the classes 
of 1970, 1971, and 1972; and 3) active re-
cruitment of female faculty with equal oppor-
tunity for advancement. 

On that very day, November 9, 1968, though 
the students did not know it, the Corporation 
voted to admit women to Yale College. On 
November 14, the college faculty gave their ap-
proval. Five hundred women, it was announced, 
would be admitted in the fall of 1969 on an experi-
mental basis. The extra cost to Yale would be met 
by tuition and fee charges. It appears, from 
various later explanations of President Brewster, 
that as late as October 1968 he still believed in a 
coordinate college approach, but the Corporation 
wanted to be sure whatever was done could be 
easily converted to total coeducation. "As a result 
of this Corporation meeting and ensuing discus-
sions with colleagues," Brewster wrote, he shifted 
from the coordinate approach to full coeducation. 
He was convinced, it appears, by the experience of 
Radcliffe, Pembroke, and the Princeton study of 
coeducation. To the Princeton Study, Brewster 
said, "we owe a great debt." It seems possible 
that Brewster feared Princeton might somehow 
get ahead of Yale. 

In any case, the die was cast. Nearly every 
guideline the Corporation had laid down three 
years before had been broken. Without money, 
without buildings, without, indeed, much specific 
planning (it was not even known where the women 
would live), President Brewster, the Yale Corpora-
tion, the college faculty, and the students plunged 
eagerly into the unknowns of coeducation. When 
within a short time the problems of overcrowding, 
quotas, and "male chauvinism" began to appear, 
many people wondered if Yale might not have 
moved with a bit more forethought. 

Hardly had the Yale alumni had time to ad-
just to the stunning news of coeducation than 
they were greeted by another startling piece of in-
formation. On January 30, 1969 the Yale College 
faculty voted 116 to 28 to remove the academic 
status of Army and Navy R.O.T.C. and make 
them extracurricular activities. The programs 
had always lacked intellectual rigor (General 
Westmoreland said, "Hell, we don't even give 
academic credit for military courses at West 
Point"), but the faculty's action in the midst of 
the Vietnam war turned a long needed curricu-
lar revision into a political act. Many alumni were 
outraged: "Whatever has happened to 'For 
God, for Country, and for Yale'?" was a constant 
theme of their letters to the alumni magazine. 

All of these shocks to Yale's alumni were 
taking place, of course, at the same time that a 
change in generations was bringing students with 
different dress, different hair, different life styles, 
and different outlooks to the college. The new 
undergraduates were part of a generation 
which had known little but peace and prosperity 
until the United States became involved in Viet-
nam. Hence their perspective tended to be 
incredibly different from that of alumni who had 
lived through world wars and depression. These 
new students not only looked and thought differ-
ently, but to the horror of the alumni they 
smoked marijuana, used LSD, and who knew 
what other forms of mind distorting substances. 
With Yale's changed admission procedures it 
became easy for alumni to place the blame for 
what was plainly a generational question on 
Kingman Brewster. 

All the bitter discontent that had been build-
ing up in many a Yale alumnus was expressed 
in December 1969 by Julien Dedman (B.A. 1948) 
in a pamphlet entitled The Rape of Yale. 
Dedman fulminated at length about the students, 
especially their slovenly appearance and "the aro-
ma of 'pot'" on campus. He blamed it all on 
Brewster's appointment of R. Inslee Clark. 
Dedman also cried out against the university's 
"radicalism," which could be seen in the presence 
of Coffin and Lynd, the "defense" of draft 
dodgers (they were to be readmitted on the same 
terms as those who withdrew for military service), 
the anti-war stand of many of Yale's faculty, the 
activities of the Drama School (especially the 
appearance there of the Living Theater), the 
"rude reception" Ronald Reagan had received at 
Yale, the banning of George Wallace as a 
speaker (at the time of a New Haven city elec-
tion), the removal of academic credit for R.O.T.C., 
and the arrogant emasculation of Yale by the ad-
mission of women "without any consultation 
with the alumni groups on whom Yale depends for 
financial support." Yale, Dedman concluded, had 
been betrayed "under the guise of a misguided 
liberalism." 

Certainly to the Dedmans among the Yale 
alumni no change at Yale would have been 
welcome. Many other less alienated alumni 
criticized Yale because of a basic lack of under-
standing of a university and its functions. 

But Brewster, on the other hand, does not seem to 
have been sufficiently attuned to alumni feeling. 
Even if many of the graduates were wrong or 
misguided or simply out of touch, he and his aides 
should have realized that the "credibility gap" 
they knew had developed was in fact based on a 
real lack of honest, straightforward communica-
tion. Brewster might have done well to study 
some advice of Griswold's. The president has a 
duty not only to raise money, he had said, but 
an even greater responsibility to educate the pa-
trons of the university in its purposes: 

"The reason some institutions have forged ahead 
of others is that they have been more enterprising 
and more successful in this mission." This 
responsibility Brewster had failed to accomplish. 

The inability or unwillingness to educate the 
alumni, and their increasing restiveness, may not 
have seemed very worrisome at first. The uni-
versity's fund-raising strategy was directed to a 
few large donors. As long as they could be 
convinced, all seemed well. But then in 1970 
the treasurer reported that a major cause of 
Yale's deficit that year was a "shortfall" in the 
alumni fund. This failure he put down to "over-
optimism about what the war classes of 1945-
1945W could do in spite of the lack of a normal 
college life." Since the alumni fund, like 
every part of the university's income, had been 
projected by the university's optimistic managers 
to grow at a certain set rate (about 9 per cent) 
every year, and future budgets were planned on 
the basis of that growth, the failure was an 
ominous one. It was especially so because, 
Treasurer John Ecklund said, "the prospect of the 
shortfall did not become known until late in May, 
1970, therefore the same problem carried forward 
to the budget for 1970-71." 

The last sentence was a revealing one. For 
April and May 1970 had produced one of the more 
traumatic experiences in Yale's long history. It 
seems likely that the events surrounding May 
Day 1970 in New Haven, when combined with an 
already very high level of discontent, had a 
great deal more to do with the alumni fund's 
failure than the lack of a normal college life 
for the members of the classes of 1945 and 1945W. 

May Day 1970


The "strike" of late April and early May 
1970 appears to have been the swan song for the 
Yale student generation of the 1960's. It 
occurred against a background of rising student 
activism at the university. Though Yale had 
remained comparatively peaceful throughout the 
period of increasing violence at the universities 
which began in 1964-avoiding the crises which 
struck most noticeably at Berkeley, Columbia, 
Cornell, San Francisco State, Chicago, and 
Harvard-it had had its moments of excitement 
tinged with fear. The spring of 1969 had seen the 
first critical period when there had been cries for 
changes in Yale University governance (especially 
to give the students a greater voice) and, much 
more forcefully, a call for the complete ejection of 
the reserve officers training programs from the 
campus. This last demand had reached its peak at 
a mass meeting of the university where a resolu-
tion to deny the military programs any place at 
Yale ended in a staggering 1286-1286 tie vote. 

As the Yale Alumni Magazine observed, "It 
was as if a giant balloon had been popped." 

The months of May and June 1969 were also 
marked by demonstrations at the Art and Archi-
tecture School over inadequate financial aid to 
students, what students felt was a lack of 
consultation over the selection of a chairman for 
the art department, and finally, the crisis in the



**Title: The Yale Crisis of 1969-70**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
;J 
TheNewJoumal!December 12,1974 
city planning department. This last situation 
occurred when the department admitted students 
for the fall of 1969 without the required consulta-
tion with the dean of Art and Architecture. The 
president then stripped the chairman of the de-
partment of his administrative responsibilities 
and sent letters to the students so admitted 
advising them not to come to Yale for city 
planning since the future of that department was 
in doubt. 

Great activity that spring on the part of the 
president-almost nightly he attended meetings 
in the various residential colleges-no doubt 
played an important part in keeping any issue 
from reaching the level of a cause celebre and 
Yale completed the academic year 1968-69.peace-
fully. Then disaster struck. Shortly after the 
departure of most students for the summer, "a 
mysterious and devastating fire swept through 
three floors of the Art and Architecture build-
ing dUring the early morning hours of June 14,, as 
the Yale Alumni Magazine reported. Though 
arson was immediately suspected, a six week 
investigation by the fire department produced no 
evidence of it. Still, the possibility lingered 
for the investigation produced no indication of 
what had caused the blaze. 

Hardly had the academic year 1969-70 gotten 
under way when the Law School became embroiled 
in problems. Complaints by black students of 
police harassment and the failure of the uni-
versity to intervene with what the blacks thought 
was sufficient energy produced first the disruption 
of a few classes and finally a boycott of classes by 
about half the student body. That crisis 
(and the interminable meetings which always 
accompanied these affairs) was just drawing to a 
close, when the college was alarmed by the occupa-
tion of the personnel supervisor's office and incar-
ceration there of four university officials. This 
contretemps had been produced by the Students 
for a Democratic Society in a demonstration 
against what they considered the ·university's 
ill-treatment of a black waitress who either quit 
(the dining hall manager's story) or was fired 
(she said) after a dispute with a white bursary 
student in which she tossed a glass of orange juice 
in his face. 

As in the other situations, sensitive treat-
ment of the problem by university officials 
prevented an explosion, but theY ale College 
faculty showed its riSing impatience with 
student activism. When the college executive 
committee let the students off with only pro-
bation, tlie faculty was extremely annoyed. 
They met three times to discuss the handling of 
the incident and then, failing even to refer to the 
action of the executive committee, went on 
record as expecting that "physical restriction, 
coercion, or intimidation of any member" of the 
university would "ordinarily result in temporary 
or permanent separation from the college." 

It was with this background of events, 
combined with deep-felt concern throughout the 
university over the war in Vietnam, the My Lai 
atrocities, the 1968 election (and especially the 
Democratic convention), the trial of the Chicago 7, 
and what appeared in newspaper reports to be an 
attempt by the police to eradicate the Black 
Panthers, that the Alex Rackley case broke on 
New Haven. Rackley, a New Haven Black 
Pantlier, had been found dead near Middlefield, 
Connecticut-his body bullet-riddled and bearing 
torture marks. Police thereupon rounded up 
various New Haven Panthers. Bobby Seale, 
National Chairman of the party, was picllced 
California on an extradition warrant c~tar~~g 
with ordering Rackley's death. 

The Rackley case (or that of the New Haven 
9, as some called it) began to produce concern 
and discontent during the winter of 1970. In 
part this situation was caused, as John Hersey 
(B.A. 1936), the Master of Pierson College, ex-
plained in his Letter to the Alumni, by 
an outfit calling itself the Panther Defense 
Committee, led by a white radical from New 
York named Thomas Dostou, joined by a few 
Yale dropouts, [which] set itself up in town 
and began making statements, some of them 
violently provocative, about the trial, and in 
due course it announced that, with the sup-
port of the seven defendants (besides Seale) 
in the Chicago conspiracy trial, a huge rally 
would be held on May 1 with the ominously 
stated purpose of "ending" the trial. 

Beginning about the middle of April, the level 
of concern began to rise at Yale. Meetings were 
held, attended by William Kunstler, lawyer for the 
Chicago 7, Doug Miranda, captain of the New 
Haven Panthers, Big Man {Elbert HQward), 
the Panther's Deputy Minister of Information, 
and Artie Seale, Bobby's wife. As the content of 
the rhetoric became increasingly violent, the 
judge in the case, Harold Mulvey, over-reacting 
to a generally tense situation, sentenced David 
Hilliard and Emory Davis, two national Black 
Panther leaders, to six months in jail for contempt 
of court because of a trivial incident. "And 
so," as Hersey well put it, "the mindset was 
prepared for confrontational hysteria." 

The release of Hilliard and Douglas a few 
days later, after they had apologized to Judge 
Mulvey, did little to quiet concern. Nor did Chap-
lain Coffin's declaration that the trial might be 
legally right but morally wrong and his call for a 
non-violent march on the courthouse. 

Amass meeting of students was held at 
Ingalls Rink the night Hilliard and Douglas were 
released (April 21 ), to discuss going out on strike 
to protest against the trial. The meeting of some 
4500 to 5000 students was marked by an element 
of hysteria in the audience, a clash between the 
crowd and Hilliard {when he said there was 
nothing wrong with killing police), and Hilliard's 
page7 
body guards "roughing up" an overly excited 
architecture student who wanted to speak. 

After the meeting, which, according to 
Hersey, turned nearly everyone against violence, 
the students returned to their colleges to vote on 
whether or not to strike. At this point there was 
mass confusion-some going on strike and others 
refusing to. Support of the strike, a term various-
ly defined, ranged from nearly unanimously in 
favor of it {at Calhoun and Silliman Colleges) to 
strongly against it {at Saybrook). 

As the students were trying to decide what 
they would do, another group was trying to reach 
a conclusion about what Yale was striking for. 
The Strike Steering Committee, made up of 
"representatives of all12 residential colleges, 
graduate schools [sic], law school, drama school, 
black medical students, black faculty, Coalition of 
Concerned Women and the Third World Organi-
zation," worked out a tentative series of strike 
demands. Only then did it become clear that a 
whole series of student discontents were to be 
voiced in the strike. There was something for 
everyone, from a demand that "theY ale Corpora-
tion call for the immediate dismissal of charges 
against the nine Panthers," through complaints 
against Yale's physical expansion in the city, calls 
for day care centers for the children of Yale 
employees and "adequate wage and workman's 
compensation and retirement plans" for the 
workers, to an end to " all plans and construction 
of the Social Science Center and Institute" 
{which some students charged would manipulate 
people). 

These demands were by no means accepted by 
all students. Still, by April 24 the first edition of 
the Strike Newspaper, which had sprung into exis-
tence at Dwight Hall, estimated that attendance 
at classes was "down 65-75 per cent though some 
science classes report 45 per cent attendance." 
The paper also said, 

Most of the Humanities and Social Science 
classes still held are discussing the Seale 
trial, the Panther's situation, and Yale's re-
lation to the community. The Drama School, 
Music School and School of Art and Archi-
tecture have ceased normal activity. 

On Thursday, April23, the Yale College 
faculty met in Sprague Hall to decide what action 
they should take. Instead of the approximately 
100 members who might atte~d a normal faculty 
meeting, 450 of the 700 college teachers appeared. 
Outside, a mob of student demonstrators 
gathered. 

President Kingman Brewster was clearly 
scheduled to speak first, but he yielded the floor to 
Professor Roy Bryce-Laporte representing the 
black faculty {a dozen or so of whom were sitting 
together in the front of the room). After "a long 
impassioned preamble," he introduced a resolu-
tion which called upon Yale to recognize "essen-
tial human and constitutional rights" by sus-
pending normal academic functions, to establish a 
fund made up of faculty contributions "to deal 
with any financial aspects that might arise from 
the present situation," to support a national con-
ference of black organizations at Yale, and, in 
John Hersey's words, 

to establish a commission with representa-
tives from the New Haven black community 
and from the University to discuss Yale-


--- Page 8 ---

pageS 
• 
community relations, especially issues of 
land expansion and housing. 

Bryce-Laporte made it clear that the black faculty 
would tolerate little, if any, modification of their 
resolution. 

With this powerful demand before the faculty 
and with the sounds of the crowd echoing outside, 
Kingman Brewster rose to speak. He announced 
that he saw two issues currently disturbing Yale: 
"The first is the trial of Panther members; the 
second is Yale's relation to the community." 

While he made it clear that Yale wished to see 
justice done in both cases, and was ready to assist 
faculty members to monitor the trial, report on its 
development, and review it fairness, he rejected 
any outright contribution of university money to 
the defense of the Panthers (which some were cal-
ling for). There was, he said, "an absolute legal 
barrier'' to such a use of university funds. Follow-
ing his remarks on the university's position in the 
crisis, Brewster made a comment for which he 
was later to be strongly criticized. Probably 
wishing to show students and black faculty that, 
despite the necessity for Yale as an institution 
to remain neutral, he, as an individual, was not 
unsympathetic with their fears, he said, 

I personally want to say that I am appalled 
and ashamed that things should have come 
to such a pas's that I am skeptical of the 
ability of black revolutionaries to achieve a 
fair trial anywhere in the United States. 

Then, after a few more remarks, he closed his 
statement by calling for everyone to "cool rather 
than heat up the atmosphere in which the trial will 
be held.'' In the context of the meeting and the 
times, the president's "skepticism" statement 
was hardly as shocking as when it appeared in the 
nation's press. Some years later he explained, 

My decision was not a simple self-indulgence 
of my right of free speech. It was the result 
of a deliberate balance of judgement about 
what' degree of speaking out was best for the 
University under the circumstances: how to 
avoid excessive exploitation of the presiden-
tial office, and how to avoid being a moral 
eunuch on a morally anguished campus. 

After Brewster spoke to the faculty, others 
introduced a resolution calling for the week of 
Apri127 to May 2 to be used for "critical discus-
sion, reasoned analysis, and informed debate 
about issues and proposals." Students and facul-
ty could pursue this end in any way they wished. 
The resolution specifically condemned "force, 
coercion, obstruction or violence." It was clear, 
however, that in the face of the black faculty reso-
lution, their carefully considered proposal had no 
chance to pass. 

At this point Dean Georges May, who was 
presiding, announced that the students gathered 
outside wanted the faculty to listen to their repre-
sentative. May said their spokesman was a de-
pendable and trustworthy young man named Kurt 
Schmoke, and he suggested that the faculty cir-
cumvent their rules against the presence of non-
faculty at their meetings by "adjourning" to hear 
him. 

After the faculty had adjourned, Schmoke, a 
black member of the class of 1971 and its perma-
nent secretary, appeared on the platform. In a 
brief and moving address, Schmoke asked the 
faculty to give the confused and frightened stu-
dents moral leadership. As one observer later 
wrote, "When he left, the entire faculty rose to its 
feet as an expression of homage to the courtesy of 
his speech and the charm of his person.'' 

The faculty then turned to the difficult task 
at hand. Led by Brewster and Kenneth Mills, a 
black assistant professor of philosophy, the facul-
ty altered the original resolution to call for a sus-
pension of normal academic "expectations." A 
section specifically condemning violence was ad-
ded. The two and a half hour meeting then ended 
with the passage of the slightly altered resolution. 
Those faculty members who were opposed to this 
decision were, it appears, caught off guard by the 
speed with which the faculty acted. They were 
furthermore, in an uncomfortable position. Any 
opposition to the resolution, no matter how re-
strained, was liable to be termed "racist." 

George Pierson did suggest, according to Hersey's 
account of the meeting, "that momentous actions 
were being precipitately taken, and he urged ad-
journment and a day's reflection." But the facul-
ty was not to be halted. Many members 
undoubtedly felt that unless the black faculty and 
the students got some clear-cut action which 
The New Journal/December 12,1974 . 
showed the depth of theY ale College faculty con-
cern, any number of catastrophic events might occur. 

began to roam the campus trying (unsuccessfully) 
to shut down any class, library, or intellectual 
activity that continued. Charges and counter-
charges echoed across the land, against Yale for 
the so-called shutdown, and against Brewster for 
his statement of skepticism. Attacks on the presi-
dent by a judge, the Governor of Connecticut, and 
Vice President Agnew (among other&), helped to 
unify Yale behind Brewster. But there was some 
concern about his leadership in the crisis. One 
conservative student feared that the president 
was politicizing Yale in order to save it. He 
warned, in the Yale Daily News, that both the 
president and the university might become "even 
more removed from the people outside," and in the 
process Brewster and Yale might be irrevocably 
weakened. 

Whatever these decisions meant for Y.ale's 
long-term future, the university as a teaching 
institution was rapidly shutting down and prepar-
ing for the onslaught of participants in the May 
Day demonstration. Only the Medical and 
Nursing Schools continued much a.s usual. 

All the students' love for extracurricular 
affa.irs now surfaced as they got ready for May 
Day. In his Letter to the Alumni, Jolm Hersey 
gave a fascinating glimpse of "by no means all" 
the activities at Yale on just one day, shortly be- · 
fore the feared arrival of the demonstrators: 

Picketeers meet at breakfast in their residen-
tial colleges at 8:00a.m. to get their orders 
for the day. A group in Branford College 
attempts to set up a free breakfast program 
for New Haven children that is not connected 
with the Black Panthers. The Strike Steer-
ing Committee calls a press conference of the 
sixty to eighty out-of-town news reporters 
who have come to cover the weekend car-
nage. Italian-speaking students (haircuts 
available at Silliman College, 50 cents) go 
out to canvass key Italian neighborhoods, 
carrying leaflets with pictures of Sacco and 
V anzetti. A meeting for Theological Reflec-
tion in the Divinity School at 10 a.m. Study 
group forms to investigate restrictions put 
on faculty members by their departments. 
Those planning to work as medic aides are 
assembled for instruction. An ad in Strike 
Newspaper announces a meeting for SPIR-
ITUAL MEDICS: ''Help convert the energy 
into good energy: high-centered people need-
ed as spiritual medics ... Don't underestimate 
yourself!'' Yale Coalition of Concerned 
Women recruits marshals: "Women are more 
effective as marshals in preserving a non-
violent situation." Davenport College being 
converted into a childcare center for the 
weekend. Three lectures at the Law School: 
"Arrest and Search," "Immunity and Con-
tempt," "Conspiracy." A "Rock Expertise" 
group<:al.ls for ''people experienced in stage 
management, light-shows, equipment hand-
ling, politics, the logistics of large concerts, 
and bizarre business in general." There is a 
"law table" in each college at lunch. Stu-
dents distribute "fact sheets" on the Panther 
trial at the gates of the Olin Mathieson Win-
chester arms factory. Silk screeners print 
posters. Filmmakers coalesce into a unity 
called May First Media. The Strike News-
paper staff turns out its daily stint. The 
Medical Committee for Human Rights sets 
up first aid stations. A murmuration of 
meetings in the colleges on housing, feeding, 
communicating. Teach-ins and teach-outs in 


--- Page 9 ---

The New Journal/December 12, 1974 
college common rooms and out on the town; 
community residents teach students, and 
vice versa. An afternoon lecture in Morse 
College on "Coloniz~Jtion and Race in Planta-
tion America." Ad Hoc Faculty Resource 
Group holds an open forum in Strathcona 
Hall on "Psychology of Racism." The var-
sity lacrosse team crushes Williams 13-4. A 
training meeting for marshals is held in 
Dwight Chapel. The Student-Faculty Moni-
toring Committee announces its concern 
about the organization and planning of the 
weekend demonstrations. Drama students 
put on a psycho-drama in Morse College "to 
investigate physically and emotionally the 
energies and tensions arising from the cur-
rent crisis." The Russian Chorus gives a 
benefit for Panther defense. The Rogues' 
Trial, a contemporary Brazilian comedy is 
staged in Stiles College as a benefit for 
BSA Y; "come to relieve your head," the 
notice advises. Mass meeting at Ingalls 
Rink. 

This hectic activity was further stimulated as 
reports and rumors circulated of the theft of guns, 
of fires at the Law School and Wesleyan Universi-
ty, of the arrival of Hell's Angels from California, 
of the alerting of federal troops. New Haven 
stores were boarded up. Schools closed. 

May Day dawned warm and sunny and 
beautiful. At first it appeared that what was 
sometimes known as "Kingman's luck" had 
failed. But perhaps it was luck after all. The ac-
tivities on the green were more like a country fair 
than a protest. Rock groups played Q.Dd represen-
tatives of a wide variety of causes spoke intermi-
nably. Both Women's and Gay Liberation made 
their cases. A skywriter put a great peace symbol 
in the clear blue sky over the mob. The crowd of 
15-20,000 {instead of the feared 50,000) was alter-
nately bored and entertained, but seldom very ex-
cited. Though attempts were made by a few uni-
dentified individuals to foment trouble both Fri-
day and Saturday nights {and the smell of tear gas 
swept through the campus and .,stung many eyes), 
excellent work by Panthers, police, civilian mar-
shals, the black community, andY ale students 
kept the confrontations small. Fortunately, the 
Connecticut National Guard, which was on the 
scene and was later reported to have been carrying 
live ammunition, retained its self-control. Per-
haps it helped that some of its members were 
Yale students. 

The major untoward event of the weekend 
was the explosion of several bombs in the stair-
wells of Ingalls Rink. Fortunately, a rock concert 
had just ended when the bombs went off, and only 
75 to 100 persons remained in the building to be 
knocked down by the force of the blast. No one 
was seriously injured and the $50-100,000 worth of 
damage to the rink could be repaired. 

But even with the departure of the crowd 
{Coffin claimed, " we licked them with love" ), the 
Yale strike did not end. Though the people of Yale 
had united in the face of the onslaught, now the in-
vaders were gone and Brewster still had to reply 
to the demands of the strike committee. He 
promised that Yale would assist faculty members 
to work for a fair trial, and the university would 
try to play a more constructive role in New Haven, 
especially through a new joint Yale and communi- . 
ty housing and development corporation. A plan 
for a day care center would go forward on an ex-
perimental basis. Employee benefits, he said, 
would have to be studied in the light of a new 
federal law and contract negotiations with the 
union which were coming up the following year. 
He defended both the social science center and 
institute. 

On the same day that he gave his reply to the 
Strike Committee, Brewster announced that "reg-
ular academic expectations" would be restored in 
all schools on Tuesday, May 5. But the Strike 
Committee rejected Brewster's reply, broadened 
its demands {especially condemning the recent in-
cursions of U.S. forces in Cambodia), and at-
tempted to keep theY ale strike alive as part of the 
national student strike which was then under way. 
Though most faculty members and numerous stu-
dents returned to the classroom, many other 
undergraduates did not. Picketing became, as one 
strike leader put it, "as coercive as possible with-
out hitting people." The killing of students at 
Kent State by the National Guard hardly helped 
to calm the situation at Yale. But since atten-
dance was not taken in classes, no one knew 
exactly how many students were still on strike. 

Trying to remain at the head of the university 
and keep its support, Brewster and 1200 students 
went off to Washington to "talk to the Yale 
graduates who are members of Congress" about 
how to stop the war, how to counter the "White 
House effort to isolate and make scapegoats of 
universities and their students," and how to elect 
anit-war congressmen. 

The academic year 1969-70 finally straggled 
to a strange, disjointed end. Most of the students 
went home, though some did not complete all their 
work until fall. But Kingman Brewster had to 
remain behind to face the wrath of the alumni who 
returned for reunion. 

6 Survival for what purpose? 
Most Yale graduates were not, apparently, 
grateful to Brewster for getting Yale through May 
'~)age 9 
Day and the strike without a disaster. Instead, they 
were furious at him for his "skepticism" state-
ment, for politicizing {as they thought) the univer-
sity during the strike and his trip to Washington, 
and for all the old issues of admissions procedures, 
the R.O.T.C., and Coffin and Lynd. Brewster 
tried hard to explain the actions he had taken 
during the difficult days of spring. But it is 
doubtful the alumni were willing to listen. They 
thought he was destroying Yale and they were 
showing their displeasure in the most obvious 
way- gifts were falling off. Not only had the 
alumni fund failed to make its target, but the 
development office reported to the Yale Alumni 
Magazine, 

We have raised about 27 per cent of the cap-
ital goal [of $443 million] with 36 per cent of 
the time elapsed. The average level of new 
commitments is substantially below the $50 
million per year required to fulfill our goals. 

As Yale began 1970-71, Kingman Brewster 
told the newly entered freshmen that while 
the question of Yale's survival was not ''prepos-
terous," he did not think it was the most impor-
tant question. "Yale will probably survive ... ," he 
said. "The real question is survival for what pur-
pose?" And in his annual report, dated just one 
day after his speech to the freshmen, he remarked 
that during the past year it had occurred to him 
"that some day Yale might cease to exist in recog-
nizable form as a free, internationally significant 
institution." Yale had been endangered, he 
pointed out, like all universities, by suggested 
changes in tax laws and the attacks of federal 
officials. These threats had not damaged Yale, he 
reported, but they showed the danger clearly: "A 
university cannot survive without the support of 
society in general, its alumni in particular." What 
it all came down to was that "Yale's freedom and 
integrity and quality depend upon their [the ·. 
alumni's) tangible and intangible support. Sur-
vival itself is in the balance." 

Another serious problem to which the presi-
dent referred in his report on the year 1969-70 was 
the relationship to the local New Haven communi-
ty. Yale, he made clear, would have to cooperate 
with the community to help the city solve its 
problems, but without becoming just a service 
institution for New Haven. 

Yale had a two-point agenda for the year 
ahead, Brewster concluded, 

in addition, of course, to the desperate effort 
to maintain our quality and our momentum 
in the face of shrunken resources and inflated 
costs. That agenda is: to take measurable 
and significant steps to put Yale's relation-
ship with its alumni and Yale's relationship 
with its own urban neighborhood on a more 
adequate basis. 

Certainly the need to solve these problems 
was great and ever-increasing. Yale was under 
rising pressure from the city administration to 
pay taxes and from city blacks to stop the univer-
sity's growth into their neighborhoods and to 
share its resources more freely with them. And an 
alumni committee bluntly reported that " for 
alumni of all ages, persuasions, backgrounds, and 
interests, Yale is no longer a given, unexamined 
good." 

1



**Title: For the Old Blue: committees and concessions**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
page 10 
7 
For the Old Blue: 
committees and concessions 
As the university entered the 1970's (amid a 
sudden "eerie tranquility" after the events of the 
spring), there were many recommendations in the 
air to make Yale a better place. Commissions had 
been at work studying alumni relations and 
university governance. The Study Commission on 
Governance was appointed by Brewster in 1969 
when numerous complaints about the conduct of 
the university were in the air. It reported at 
length in 1971. The commission detailed a wide 
variety of ways in which the university could pro-
vide better information about decisions at all 
levels and allow greater participation by all mem-
bers of the community in decision-making. Many 
of its recommendations were, in fact, never 
enacted. But several important changes were 
made. On April2, 1971 the Yale Corporation 
voted 12 year terms for Successor Trustees (they 
had previously held office until the commence-
ment following their sixty-eighth birthday). The 
Corporation specifically rejected a commission 
recommendation for the election of two trustees 
by students and faculty because they feared that 
would create "special constituents." They also 
instructed the Yale officers to respond promptly 
to the recommendation for four all-university 
councils (on priorities and planning, institutional 
policies, investment and finance, and operations 
and services), but only the council on priorities 
and planning has been created as of this writing. 
The Corporation at the same meeting requested 
the University Secretary, Reuben Holden, to 
make a specific proposal for a news bulletin. Out 
of this vote came the Yale Weekly Bulletin and 
Calendar in the fall of 1972 -a much improved 
form of the old university calendar. The Corpora-
tion lastly asked the deans of the schools to get 
the response of the faculties to aspects of the 
report which affected them. 

A year later the chairman of the commission's 
monitoring committee (appointed for a year) re-
ported that while some parts of their report had 
been accepted, and some were being considered, 
"others seem to have been ignored." He noted, 
however, that because the commission had been 
working at a time of particular crisis, some of their 
recommendations were already "dated-or even 
passe." Still, the chairman found that junior 
faculty were playing a larger role in decision-
making, students were being consulted more fre-
quently, and progress had been made in devel-
oping "appropriate disciplinary bodies designed 
to safeguard individual rights yet to protect the 
commonweal in cases of infractions of University 
rules by either faculty or students." 

Chairman Jaroslav Pelikan overlooked or ig-
nored, however, the poor handling of the case of 
Kenneth Mills-a leader of the black faculty 
during the May Day period. Mills was found in 
1972 to be holding a full-time tenure position at 
the State University of New York at Stony Brook 
while still working full-time at Yale. Mills was 
suspended for a year but always claimed that he 
did not get "due process." While the ultimate 
decision of the university was probably right, had 
the case been referred to an all-university tribunal 
as recommended by the Governance Commission 
the sense that justice had been done might have 
been greater. 

The problem with the alumni was of more im-
mediate danger to the university, however, than 
the problem of governance. Alumni can be useful 
to any college or university in a wide variety of 
ways, of course, but the most important of all is 
through their financial support. Yale's alumni 
were beginning to withhold some of their dollars 
from alma mater. So the worsening Yale finan-
cial situation prompted actions to pacify the 
graduates. Undergraduate admissions procedures 
were altered to admit more athletes and the 
children of "Old Blues." Having pushed neces-
sary admissions changes too rapidly, and perhaps 
even somewhat too far in the early sixties, Yale 
now found itself forced into a sizeable retreat. But 
the first step was to reorganize the alumni body 
following the recommendations of the report on 
the Commission on Alumni Affairs, usually 
known as the Dwyer Commission, its chair-
man, and a feasibility study under the leadership 
of George B. Young. 

Though Bishop Paul Moore, Jr., a Fellow of 
the Corporation, joked that changing the alumni 
organization was "like rearranging the deck chairs 
on the Titanic," the plan for an Association for 
Yale Alumni was given the go-ahead by the Yale 
Corporation in October 1971. The new group was 
given overall responsibility for coordinating alum-
ni-related boards and its chairman was given the 
right to attend meetings of the Institutional 
Policy Committee of the Corporation and other 
committees as necessary. A complicated system 
was worked out whereby all of the university's 
alumni would be represented in an assembly of 
350 delegates. But the most important product of 
the reform was the Governing Board, which would 
exercise the powers of oversight and coordination 
of alumni activities and which, in the provost's 
words, would provide "an effective link between 
Yale and all her alumni." Endicott P. Davison 
(B.A. 1945), appointed to the newly created post 
of Director of Institutional Development and 
Capital Support in 1971, was to be the chief 
alumni liaison on campus. He put the purposes 
of the organization more crudely: "Alumni will 
now have clout that they never had before." 

Undergraduate admissions were undoubtedly


--- Page 11 ---

The New Journal/December 12, 1974 
the key area of alumni concern. By the 1970's the 
university was beginning to try to show that it 
really cared about the children of its graduates. 
The Office of Institutional Research released a 
report showing that by 1971 Yale-affiliated ap-
plicants in the middle applicant pool-where most 
individuals fall- had a five times better chance of 
acceptance than those with no Yale relatives. 
President Brewster began to express his con-
cern as well. In his annual report for 1971-72, he 
finally admitted that the admissions office had not 
paid enough attention to alumni relationships. By 
that time, R. Inslee Clark had resigned and pres-
sures for change were building. Throughout the 
years 1969-73, however, alumni children remained 
at a level of about 13-15 per cent of each entering 
class. Under the insistence of the AYA, however, 
things began to change. In the fall of 1973 the 
alumni group called for an increase of the children 
of graduates in each class to "a figure closer to 20 
or 22 per cent." The AYA chairman, Frederick P. 
Rose (B.E. 1944), said, "It's necessary to elimi-
nate the impression created by the admissions of-
fice of previous years that Yale is not interested in 
alumni children." While the dean of admissions 
considered the 20 per cent figure "unrealistic" 
based on the present applicant pool, the president 
directed that alumni children be actively en-
couraged to come to Yale. One way or another, 
the class of 1978 had the highest number of the 
sons and daughters of graduates in many years-
nearly 20 per cent of the class. 

"Old Blues" had also been concerned about 
what seemed to them a noticeable decline in Yale's 
prowess on the athletic field. Here, too, the presi-
dent, while carefully hedging his statement, 
declared that "the Corporation members do wish 
to eliminate every financial or other handicap to 
the admission of scholar athletes." Positive 
weight, Dean of Admissions Worth David was 
told, was to be given to athletic distinction in the 
appraisal process. Brewster also wanted each 
class to have more scientists, more New Haven 
students, more minority students, and better 
geographic distribution. 

8 


**Title: A million dollar windfall but the crisis remains**
**Page number(s): 11**

A million dollar windfall 
but the crisis remains 
Whatever else might be said about these 
moves-and it is still too early to tell what effect 
they will have on Yale or its graduates-two 
things were clear: an attempt was being made to 
woo the alumni back to caring about Yale, and the 
university (by that one would have to mean Brew-
ster) was making a broad retreat from its earlier 
position. "Inky" Clark had felt that Brewster and 
the Corporation wanted a more diverse and intel-
lectually stronger student body. Clark had 
specifically rejected geographic representation as 
an element in the make-up of classes. In 1970, 
Brewster had said there was no intention of hav-
ing any consolidation or retrenchment in the ad-
missions procedure. Now the change was on. 

The reason, of course, was the financial situa-
tion. The shift from good times to bad had first 
been indicated in the fall of 1969 when the first 
cut-backs (in things, rather than people) had 
begun. But the real problem only became appar-
ent in the spring and summer of 1970. While the 
treasurer stressed at that time the decline in 
alumni giving, other gifts used for operating 
expenses were falling as well. Between 1967-68 
and 1969-70 total "Gifts Availed of for Operating 
Expenses" fell by $1 million. They had undoubted-
ly been budgeted to grow at a rate of at least nine 
per cent along with everything else. The fall in 
income, however, did not stop the rise in expenses.  
The rate of inflation was picking up. The costs of 
medical and fire insurance and social security were 
rising, as were wages, utility expenses, and inter-
est rates. In his report for the frightening year of 
1969-70, the treasurer said that if Yale were to 
continue "at its present pace" the estimated 
shortfall would be $8 million in 1971-72. In Octo-
ber 1970 the Corporation approved a plan for a 
total reduction in "activities and people" of $5.3 
million from the predicted 1971-72 expenses: The 
people of Yale had already been warned. In Sep-
tember they had been told that "virtually all 
aspects of Yale will be required to cut back" and 
this was followed, in October, by a freeze on hir-
ing. The situation did not brighten when, that 
same fall, the city put eleven pieces of Yale's prop-
erty on its tax lists. 

While Yale's various moves to cut expenses 
were helpful, they could not solve the financial 
problem because of the scarcity of gifts for opera-
ting income. Though the alumni fund increased 
slightly in 1970-71, other gifts of this sort again 
declined. Over four years, gifts in this total cate-
gory were down, while university expenses in-
creased by 32 per cent. At the same time, addi-
tional expenses were coming on line. Yale's com-
prehensive health plan, operating from a new $6.7 
million building (not including equipment) went 
into operation in July 1971. The experimental 
Tuition Postponement Option plan, by which a 
student could defer the payment of a portion of 
tuition, and repay it by a percentage charge on 
income after graduation, was instituted for 1971-
72. The president had long talked of such a plan, 
funded by the federal government, but in the face 
of rising tuition it became a necessity. For 1970-
71, tuition and room and board amounted to 
$3,900. A $500 increase was added for 1971-72. 
(In 1964-65 the inclusive fee for resident students 
was $2,800. By 1974, it had reached $5,350.) But 
Yale could not afford to increase its financial aid. 
So Yale turned to its new experimental plan, even 
though there was a risk it might cost money, or 
students, in the long run. 

The deficit for the year 1970-71 was $2.6 mil-
lion; in June 1971 it appeared that the 1971-72 de-
ficit would soar to $6.5 million. The Yale Corpora-
tion realized that the university was in "a major 
financial crisis." It was decided that educational 
costs must be cut 20 per cent from the forecasts 
over the next three years. As part of this pro-
gram, the president appointed a committee, under 
the chairmanship of Professor Robert Dahl, to get 
a fundamental and fresh appraisal of Yale's educa-
tional functions. 

In January 1972 the Corporation announced 
its intention of launching a fund drive after the 
current reviews of the educational and financial 
operations of the university were completed. Yale 
had to get its "own house in order," according to 
Brewster, and should "come forward with an edu-
cational prospect which commands widespread 
enthusiasm by all sectors of the community." 
After that was done, it could go to the country for 
money. 

Unfortunately for Brewster and his hope for 
rapid movement, the faculty found little it liked in 
the Dahl Report of 1972. The report had many 
worthwhile features, but two points attracted the 
attention of the faculty. The proposal for two very 
long semesters each year, which would have fit the 
normal 104 weeks of instruction a student received 
in four years into three years, was not appealing to 
those who had to teach the long terms. The pro-
posed "mentor program," designed to give stu-
dents throughout their years at Yale better ad-
vice, guidance, and evaluation of their work, 
seemed expensive and not really very innovative. 

The Dahl Report, which was intended to give 
"recommendations concerning the future of Yale 
over the next 20 years" was hailed by Brewster as 
being restrained by "an admirable modesty and a 
healthy pragmatism." The faculty, however, laid 
it aside and asked its executive committee to 
appoint an ad hoc committee to "consider the 
future of Yale University as a whole ... (and) to 
report to the faculty on possible ways in which Yale 
may achieve and maintain financial stability and 
excellence in scholarship and undergraduate and 
graduate teaching over the next generation." The 
Blum Committee, as it was called after its chair-
man, Professor John M. Blum of the history de-
partment, had some problems even beyond the 
stretch of their mandate. The major difficulty was 
in getting firm financial information. Throughout 
their deliberations it appeared that the deficit for 
the year 1971-72 would be about $4.6 million (in-
cluding contingency allowances of $1 million). In 
fact, just as they were about to report, it was re-
vealed that the deficit was only $1.2 million. 

Thus, while everyone was delighted over the im-
proved results, the committee's financial projec-
tions had to be reworked. The error, which was 
later shown to be due to numerous factors all 
working in Yale's favor, combined with a poor 
tracking system, caused a certain amount of anger 
and embarrassment. It undercut the weight of the 
administration's words. As Brewster told the Cor-
poration in September 1972, the divergence be-
tween estimates and performance posed "a danger 
that no future forecasts" would be believed "and 
that there will be continued skepticism about the 
adequacy of the information about where we stand 
financially at any given time." 

Despite the difficulties with financial infor-
mation, when it reported in December 1972, the 
Blum Committee agreed there was a very real 
financial problem. And while it pointed to various 
ways the university could, and should, save 
money, its major suggestion was a rejection of the 
Dahl Committee's extended semesters and a rec-
ommendation that Yale adopt a trimester plan 
and include a summer term which would be manda-
tory for one term for all undergraduates. It 
further suggested an increase in the size of Yale 
College to 5300 students upon the completion of 
two new residential colleges. The committee mem-
bers believed this would involve no necessary 
additions to physical plant and service facilities, 
although they confessed it would not relieve over-
crowding in the colleges. A majority of the com-
mittee did not think overcrowding was, in fact, a 
serious problem. The two undergraduate mem-
bers of the committee and one current and one 
former master disagreed, but they were outvoted 
by the others-most of whom were not closely 
involved with the colleges. The majority even 
suggested converting faculty offices in the col-
leges into residential space although that would 
have undercut a major purpose of the colleges and 
would have done nothing to solve the problem of 
overpopulation of public spaces. 

The Blum Committee was only slightly more 
successful than the Dahl Committee-perhaps 
because their report was undercut by the treas-
urer's error in estimating the deficit. The faculty 
and the Corporation did vote in January 1973 to 
move to a trimester plan for 1973-74 and the fac-
ulty appointed a committee to work on plans for a 
new pilot summer term in 1974. 

The new academic schedule-beginning 
early in September in order to make room for a 
summer term-went into effect with freshman 
registering on September 2, 1973 and the upper 
classes on September 5. The students arrived in 
the midst of the worst heat wave of the summer 
which, it must be conjectured, influenced faculty 
feelings about a summer term. The professors 
were also presented with a report of the Council of 
Masters which said that a "mandatory summer 
term will seriously injure undergraduate educa-
tion by damaging those aspects of education be-
yond the classroom which contribute to Yale's 
distinctiveness." The science faculty feared that 
the normal sequential progress of their students 
would be disrupted. Debate began at an October 
11 meeting where the faculty was surprised to 
hear President Brewster say he would support a 
voluntary summer semester rather than a manda-
tory one. If this move was based on a pragmatic 
decision that this was all he could get, it still 
undercut and embarrassed those who had suppor-
ted the mandatory term because the president had 
said it was necessary. After Brewster's state-
ment, a lively debate continued in and out of meet-
ings for two weeks. Finally, on October 25, the 
faculty voted for an experimental summer term in 
1975. They had debated too long for it to begin in 
1974. Interestingly, the new term would not do 
much to solve Yale's financial problem-the 
main reason the change had been suggested. 

Putting the best face on it he could, Brewster 
said in his annual report for the year 1973-74 that 
"The test of morale is the faculty's willingness to 
assume a degree of responsibility for helping the 
University make ends meet. This challenge has 
been met with remarkably good temper." And he 
wrote that he believed the imaginative design of 


--- Page 12 ---

page 12 
• 

**Title: The Campaign for Yale**
**Page number(s): 12**

The Campaign for Yale 
Despite the continuing slide of the stock mar-
ket, the university unveiled its new fund drive on 
April 5, 1974. Yale was going to try to raise $370 
million over three and a half years in a "Campaign 
for Yale." This sum would be the largest amount 
of money ever sought by a university in the 
United States. Of the total amount, $239 million 
was for badly needed endowment, $55 million for 
operating expenses, and $76 million for improve-
ments. 

Comparing the new drive with the ten year 
campaign which had sought funds only from those 
who would make major gifts, it was interesting to 
see how Yale's goals had changed. In its six year 
history to June 30, 1973, the ten year plan had 
raised 39 per cent of its revised goal of $443 mil-
lion (43 per cent of endowment needs and only 21 
per cent of facilities). For current funds (not in-
cluded in the $443 million goal), the university had 
done much better- it was right on target with 
60 per cent, $43.3 million. The most notable 
change from the ten year plan to the $370 million 
campaign was in the disappearance of the Social 
Science Center- originally budgeted for $27 mil-
lion in the campaign. Gifts to that structure had 
been very hard to get. Instead, taking over Berke-
ley Divinity School in 1971 had allowed Yale to 
move its social science library to the Berkeley 
buildings and to establish a social science center 
there and in many of the beautiful old houses near-
by on Hillhouse Avenue. More alarming in its dis-
appearance from the list of Yale's needs was the 
provision of housing for graduate, law, and divin-
ity students. $6.1 million had been slated for this 
purpose in the ten year campaign. And in 1970, 
when John Hay Whitney created a $15 million 
trust for the new colleges, he made his commit-
ment with the understanding that Yale would ob-
tain similar support for an equal number of gradu-
ate students. Though the trustees voted funds for 
planning and designing new housing, that impor-
tant goal was not listed in the Campaign for Yale. 

Other changes were made, but none seemed quite 
as important as these. A substantial decline in the 
amount needed for various medical buildings was 
probably due to the fact that money for these pur-
poses could be found elsewhere. 

One reason for the timing of the announce-
ment of the new campaign was that Yale was 
finally bringing income and expenditures into 
balance. This had been achieved at the cost of 
painful contractions-"a 19 per cent reduction in 
(projected) educational budgets"-and with 
"real qualitative losses," as the president ob-
served. Though the number of professors, asso-
ciate professors, and assistant professors had in-
creased over the years, the total number of officers 
of instruction, research, and administration had 
decreased from a peak of 3,250 in November 1971 
to 2,859 in the fall of 1973. While undergraduate 
enrollment increased to 4,899 in the fall of 1973, 
graduate student enrollment had fallen from a 
peak of 2,473 in 1969 to 2,293 in 1973. The total of 
graduate and professional enrollment no longer 
surpassed the number of undergraduates after 
1970, as it had in the sixties. 

The pain of numerous budget cuts had re-
duced the deficit. In 1972-73, Brewster's tenth 
year, it was down to $896,082, the smallest 
amount since 1968-69. The total deficits and in-
tentional expenditures from capital gains for 
Brewster's ten years were $62 million. Even the 
best management would probably have faced defi-
cits in the 1970's, but a somewhat more conserv-
ative approach might well have preserved more 
endowment with which Yale could have faced the 
whipsaw of a temporary decline in gifts and raging 
inflation. 

It is interesting to note what has happened to 
the administration's eminence grise to the east. 
In 1950, Yale's total assets were about 56 per cent 
of Harvard's (at book value and probably also at 
market). By 1963, at book value, Yale's assets 
were 57 per cent of Harvard's, and were only 
about 50 per cent at market. By 1972 when Yale's 
endowment reached the highest level in history, 
the university's total assets at book were 58 per 
cent of Harvard's ($642 million to $1,119 million) 
and only 46 per cent at market ($695 million to 
$1,515 million). 

While Yale's performance in the money mar-
kets was marked as "good" in some 
areas by an observer from Dartmouth, he did note, 
according to the Yale Alumni Magazine, that over 
the last five years (1969-73) "the compound rate of 
annual return on all Yale money, including long-
term real estate holdings ... and restricted stocks 
which donors require not to be sold, has been 0.79 
per cent. By comparison, a group of 76 other uni-
versity endowment funds produced a median re-
turn of 4.38 per cent." The university's financial 
manager, Endowment Management & Research 
Corporation of Boston, had done much better with 
the funds under its care, but the total figure was 
shocking for a university administration which 
had prided itself on its "go-go" outlook. 

9 


**Title: Considerable gains**

Considerable gains 
The Brewster administration could not be 
given much praise for its financial management. 
In measured tones the Blum Committee had re-
marked that neither in "the long-term planning 
nor the short-term financial management has the 
University been as efficient or as alert as we wish 
had been possible." There were other areas of the 
university's activities, however, which deserved 
somewhat more acclaim. A high point would have 
to be Paul Mellon's gift announced in 1966, of his 
great collection of British paintings, drawings, 
books and manuscripts for a new center for British 
art and British studies. Mellon, long one of Yale's 
most generous friends, also gave a $7.4 million 
building and funds for its maintenance. While 
Louis Kahn's structure for housing the collections 
has yet to create much enthusiasm, the inclusion 
of space for commercial stores (at the insistence of 
art and architecture students and, more signifi-
cantly, the city) did mark a major commitment by 
Yale to New Haven. Unfortunately, the city re-
fused to accept this procedure in the new colleges 
and instead insisted on being able to tax the entire 
place. Wisely, Brewster rejected this demand of a 
city government which refused to view Yale's 
financial situation by any other standard than the 
size of Yale's endowment. 

Though the university's library system was 
never able to raise much of its goal under the ten 
year plan, a new Cross Campus Library was con-
structed underground at a cost (in borrowed 
funds) of $3.7 million. While many students be-
grudge the new building's sterility, they never had 
to work in the jammed Reserve Book Room in 
Sterling. In addition, the new air-conditioned 
space will be more highly valued by those who 
must work in the library in the summer. 

On the intellectual front, an achievement of 
real note was Yale's purchase in 1973, through the 
impressive efforts of Donald Gallup, of the Ezra 
Pound papers. The completion of this transaction 
(the papers arrived at Yale in 1966) made possible 
planning for the establishment of a Center for the 
study of 20th Century Literature which would 
draw upon the great resources of the Yale Collec-
tion of American Literature in Beinecke Library. 

Yale's ability to attract Charles Montgomery 
from Winterthur as Professor of the History of 
Art and Curator of the Garvan and Related Collec-
tions of American Art brought about the creation 
of an exciting display of those treasures in the new 
Mabel Brady Garvan Galleries of the Art Gallery. 
Montgomery's goal was "to create an exciting 
teaching museum." This end was achieved to crit-
ical acclaim. 

From early in his presidency, the develop-
ment of the social sciences was high on Brewster's 
agenda. The Social Science Institute and Center 
were important in this progress. The expensive 
new center has now disappeared from Yale's 
plans, as previously noted, but the institution is 
now an operating entity. While Brewster has 
vocally resisted the idea of Yale becoming a ser-
vice center, the institution is a definite move in 
that direction. It is, as the university explains, 
"an educational and research group applying 
social sciences and related professions to contem-
porary social problems in the city, in education, 
and in the management of large organizations." 
The Institute was to be made up of centers, estab-
lished for no more than ten years, which would 
continue thereafter only if there was a clear need 
for them. In a move little heralded but of enor-
mous significance, one center has already escaped 
from this position. In 1973 the Yale Corporation 
voted that on July 1, 1974 the Center for Organ-
ization and Management would become the School 
of Organization and Management absorbing the 
Department of Administrative Sciences. Thus did 
Yale finally, with little fanfare and under different 
colors, accept the business school which it had 
so long resisted. 

There were many other achievements of lesser 
note and undoubtedly many observers of the Yale 
scene will find major omissions here, but more 
important than the details of the very few new 
buildings (more in medicine than anywhere else), 
some new programs and several reorganized or 
enlarged programs (such as the School of Forestry 
becoming the School of Forestry and Environ-



**Yale: A Look at the Brewster Years**
**Author: Brooks Mather Kelley**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New Journal/December 12, 1974

mental Studies) was the general flavor of Yale.

Brewster pointed with pride in 1973 to an
improved faculty: "Perhaps the least heralded
change at Yale was the raising of standards for
senior faculty ranks in the early sixties." This had
been accomplished by building on steps taken
while he was provost under Whitney Griswold.
These first moves were now expanded and system-
atized so that while nominations for tenure ap-
pointments still originated with departments,
they were now reviewed by divisional committees
for the fields of humanities, sciences, and social
sciences. This judgment by "a jury of peers out-
side the department," according to Brewster,
resulted in much better standards: "Softness was
squeezed out. A Yale professorship means more
today than it did ten years ago." During these
years members of the Yale faculty, for the first
time, won Nobel prizes. One went to Lars On-
sager, a Yale Ph.D. and, fittingly, J. Willard
Gibbs Professor of Theoretical Chemistry, and
another went to George Emil Palade, a new mem-
ber of the Medical School.


Judgment of a university is a notably slip-
pery thing. In a poll in 1964, the Yale graduate
school was either third in the nation, or eighth, if
engineering was included. By 1969, a similar poll
indicated that even including engineering, the
school had moved to fifth. In the 1969 report, it
was shown that Yale had improved more than any
other university, for fifteen of its departments re-
ceived higher ratings in 1969 than in 1964. Yale
ranked first in the country in English, French,
history, political science, and pharmacology. A
poll of professional school deans was not so kind
to Yale, but it, of course, was dismissed as being
badly conducted (which it probably was). Even
so, it did give the Yale Divinity School top rank in
its field, placed Yale second in law, behind Har-
vard, and put the Medical School in a three-way
tie for third place. It did seem clear, as well, that
excellent appointments had been made in many
areas, the sciences had definitely improved, and
Yale's traditional great strength in the humanities
had been retained- perhaps even increased. One
recognition of Yale's position in this list area was
receipt of $2.75 million from the National Endow-
ment for the Humanities to fund for four years the
first National Institute for the Humanities to
work toward a new approach to teaching subjects
in this area.


Looking back and beyond

As Brewster began his second decade as pres-
ident of Yale one of the most striking changes was
in the tone of the student body. While no change
in admissions procedure could yet have caused the
result, all through the university there was a
quietness and seriousness that was hard to believe
after the boisterous, often pugnacious, late sixties.
By the fall of 1971, use of the Cross Campus
Library was up 66 per cent over the previous year.
And one of the few protests of the year occurred
when the library, in a budget cutting move, tried
to reduce its hours. Still, the students had not
completely given up concern for other things-
especially as long as the Vietnam War continued
or escalated as it did in the spring of 1972. In one
case, during April 1972, General William West-
moreland cancelled a speech at Yale to avoid
angry and noisy demonstrators in the Law School
auditorium. University administrators had done
little to see that the speech would not be disrup-
ted. Westmoreland had already prepared a letter
of withdrawal and had refused the advice of Sec-
retary of the University "Sam" Chauncey to go
ahead and speak. Brewster used these incidents
as excuses to make a self-serving statement about
Yale's "determination to risk whatever confronta-
tion might have occurred to vindicate the Political
Union's right to listen to speakers of their choice
without interruption." Two years later, when
William Shockley tried to put forth his ideas on the
genetic inferiority of blacks in a debate on the
necessity for society "to diagnose and treat" (by
which Shockley meant "voluntary sterilization"),
he was prevented from doing so by the noisy
disapproval of many students. Again, the univer-
sity administration's defense of the right of free
speech was weak and uncertain.


The escalation of the war in Vietnam in 1972
brought calls for a new strike, but 65-80 per cent
of the students continued to attend classes. Some
students got themselves arrested for various
forms of disruptive behavior, but most were not
involved. A strange mixture of individuals from
town and gown traveled to Washington to lobby
with their representatives against the war. Some
later got themselves arrested in the rotunda of the
Capitol. But this was not the revival of the old
era. More characteristic was the constant and
ever increasing talk of "grim professionalism" in
the college. The year 1972-73 was described by
one student as "the year of the weenie,"-the
grind. More and more students were choosing
professional schools as their goal beyond Yale,
and an increasing number of them felt it necessary
to work much harder than before. Chemistry labs
were overcrowded by pre-medical students and the
chemistry department was worried about becom-
ing nothing but a training ground for future doc-
tors.


One aspect of the tone of the college may have
been the overcrowding. While the university
administration, the Blum Committee, and others
continued to deny the situation, to those who
experienced it there was no doubt of its existence.
While Dean of Undergraduate Affairs John Wil-
kinson (B.A. 1960) said the situation was worse
in 1945-62 before Morse and Stiles Colleges were
opened, apparently he was only counting students
per room and ignored the fact that many more
students now lived off campus. On a measure of
one body per room, the colleges were at 101 per
cent of capacity in the fall of 1973 with 600 living
off campus. The crowding of public spaces-
common rooms, libraries, and dining halls-was
especially noticeable. The quality of Yale residen-
tial college life was definitely deteriorating and a
resource which had probably been very helpful in
keeping Yale a liveable community and reducing
outbreaks in the sixties was clearly being under-
cut. The Yale Daily News complained of "cattle-
car accomodations." George W. Pierson, the
University Historian, undoubtedly spoke for
many when he said in 1973, "I don't eat lunch at
Davenport anymore, I find it too unpleasant. It's
disorderly, overcrowded, overnoisy. Yale has be-
come a very impersonal place compared to what it
used to be."


Another measure of the flavor of Yale was a
return to some of the silliness of earlier days.
Though fraternities continued to close because of
financial problems (only Fence remained in the fall
of 1974), "streaking" naked through the streets
page 13
and within the campus made its appearance in the
spring of 1974. Drunkenness became a problem
once again. And in better sign, the traditional
clay pipes, banished by the puritans of '69, return-
ed to class day in 1974.


As Yale approached its 275th year it appear-
ed to be in a state of "normalcy": the financial
situation was serious as usual; students were com-
plaining about the quality of life; and the univer-
sity, despite all, remained a dynamic place of
world significance. What it would be like decades
later on its 300th anniversary was another ques-
tion. Certainly, the actions of the president, who-
ever he might then be, would make a substantial
difference.


As Brewster entered his second decade as
president of Yale, he was speaking more openly of
the day he would resign, and university sooth-
sayers were studying their crystal balls for a suc-
cessor. One rumor had it that Brewster would
leave his post when those who liked him had con-
tributed to the Campaign for Yale, so his succes-
sor could then collect from his enemies. Whatever
the length of the remainder of his presidency, it
was still too soon to figure a "final mark" for his
leadership. It seemed clear that in dealing with
the fractious students of the 1960's, Brewster's
pragmatism and flexibility had been a positive
plus to him and the institution. The alienation of
the alumni, given the problems of the years of
student protest, may have been unavoidable, but
Brewster's handling of the admissions procedure
had only served to irritate the graduates further.
The president's financial policies still could not be
judged. While the performance to 1974 was far
from successful, the new devices and arrange-
ments might ultimately prove themselves. De-
spite the financial stringency of the seventies and
the disgraceful level of assistant professors' sal-
aries, the overall faculty was larger, better paid,
and probably stronger (though weaknesses cer-
tainly remained) than when he began. The admin-
istrative organization of the university had been
improved and modernized, but again it was some-
what too early to tell how successful these changes
had been.


Today one senses a certain fatigue about the
whole administration, but that may only be the
damper that financial stringency places on every-
one. The throbbing vitality of the entire institu-
tion which one felt only a few years ago, seems to
have lessened. If fear of the ultimate disruption
by the students has disappeared-for which
everyone must be thankful-so has some of the
vigor their commitment and activity brought to
life at Yale. This particular flavor Brewster
neither brought nor took away. This survey of the
Brewster years must end with neither the fanfare
of trumpets nor a dirge-only uncertainty. The
financial situation remains sufficiently gloomy
that one must wonder with the president if some
day Yale may "cease to exist in recognizable
form as a free, internationally significant insti-
tution."


Brooks Mather Kelley, Research Fellow in His-
tory, is the author of Yale, A History. Mr. Kelley
is currently teaching a residential college
seminar on the history of Yale.


**Yale and New Haven: A Complex Relationship**
**Author: Michael Jacobson**
**Page number(s): 14, 15**

(continued from page 2)
sociate pastor, had any knowledge of
the city from outside a Yale con-
text-but Brewster rarely took coun-
cil with them. Others, like Director
Barnes, who had been a CIA agent
before returning to Yale, were un-
familiar with the city's particular
problems. Outside the Council,
Brewster relied heavily on Old Blue
advisors such as Al Fitt, who had
been an Undersecretary of Defense,
and Cyrus Vance. These men, while
skilled in international affairs, lacked
an understanding of the personal-
ities and problems of a blue-collar
community.


The Council failed to develop a co-
herent strategy for university-city
relations. It first tried to fund com-
munity groups. Yale gave $100,000
to the New Haven Black Coalition
for use in various community pro-
grams. But other groups pressured
the university for funds it could not
provide. Tension arose as New Ha-
ven's other ethnic organizations re-
garded the grant as favoritism
toward the Coalition. Yale discontin-
ued these grants.


The Council fared no better devis-
ing a strategy to govern the universi-
ty's physical expansion- the most
visible of its problems with the city.
When Yale announced plans to build
the Mellon Center (now the Center
for British Art and British Studies)
on Chapel Street, it met strong op-
position from the city, which was
nervously eyeing its shrinking
Grand List (the list of all taxable
land in the city). Though a compro-
mise was worked out- Yale
would allow retail stores on the
ground floor of the Center- universi-
ty officials failed to use the situation
to begin communications with the
city on the general problem of tax-
exempt land in New Haven. The inci-
dent simply represented another case
of Yale dealing with the city only af-
ter a specific project had offended
the community and its leaders.


Finally, the Council showed short-
sightedness in its technical assis-
tance to New Haven. It failed to plan
a way to implement Brewster's pro-
mise "to make it easier for faculty,
staff and students to contribute their
own time, talent and energies as vol-
unteers, consultants or even salaried
workers on city problems." More im-
portant, the Council failed to stop
the university from cutting out
worthwhile programs that were help-
ing New Haven: the Summer High
School, ISSP, and the Masters of
Arts and Teaching program all dis-
appeared. No programs took their
place.


While Yale never constructed a
policy to guide its attitude toward
New Haven, many New Havenites
felt that the city should devise one
toward Yale. Bartholemew Guida,
President of the Board of Aldermen
in 1968, was obviously one such New
Havenite. He authored the Institu-
tional Development Ordinance- the
so-called "Guida-Amendment" -de-
claring that no land could be re-
moved from New Haven's tax rolls
without prior aldermanic approval.
In 1969, Bartholemew Guida was
elected Mayor of New Haven.


Unlike his predecessor, Guida was
not impressed with grandiose plans
and flashy appointments. The son of
Italian immigrants, Guida had no in-
timate Yale connections and brought
to the office of mayor the more tradi-
tional concerns of the New Haven
community. He also had new prob-
lems facing him. Lee had heavily fi-
nanced his renewal program with
federal funds, and when (under the
Nixon Administration) those funds
dried-up, New Haven's financial situ-
ation grew steadily worse. Guida felt
that Yale, as a citizen of the com-
munity, had an obligation to help
New Haven financially- as Harvard,
MIT, Dartmouth, and Princeton had
long done in their own communities.


Yale officials apparently did not
realize that there had been a change
of style in City Hall. Yale's attemp-
ted fait accompli with the design of
the two residential colleges might
have gone over well with Lee (who
had quite a flair for the fait accompli
himself), but it reportedly annoyed
Guida. Perhaps Brewster and other
officials felt that because they had
applied the "Mellon formula" to the
colleges there was no need to consult
the city further. The city disagreed.
United by what they saw as another
example of Yale's arrogance, the Al-
dermen twice rejected the university
proposal. Many people at Yale con-
sidered New Haven's actions tanta-
mount to blackmail, but the city
seems to have been simply and force-
fully saying that it was time, per-
haps long past time, for Yale to sit
down with the city to discuss the fu-
ture. The city was even willing to
sacrifice the economic benefits at-
tached to building the colleges in or-
der to gain a more permanent settle-
ment with Yale.


It is only since the colleges have
been turned down that Brewster and
the Yale Administration have made
a serious effort to deal with New Ha-
ven. Interestingly enough, Brewster
almost repeated a past mistake when
he first considered a Philadelphia
man for Yale's liason with the city.
In the end, however, he appointed
Henry "Sam" Chauncey to the po-
sition- one of the most positive de-
cisions he has made to further Yale-
New Haven relations.


Chauncey is clearly a Yale man;
but he has shown an ability to see be-
yond the one-sided approach and


view town-gown problems realistic-
ally. Since taking on the job, he has
made progress in coordinating the
various functions of Yale which af-
fect the city. Several activities, in-
cluding the Office of Community Af-
fairs Development, the Council's suc-
cessor, and Yale Volunteer Services
now fall under Chauncey's auspices.
In addition, Chauncey has been able
to discuss hard issues with city of-
ficials-something previous Yale of-
ficials could not or would not do.
Chauncey dexterously handled the
New York Giants negotiations for
the university which has resulted in
a profitable deal for both Yale and
the city.


But Chauncey, too, has been short-
sighted at times. In his article in the
December 1973 issue of the
Yale Alumni Magazine entitled,
"What Are We Doing Wrong?What
Can We Do Better?" Chauncey dwelt
too long on cosmetic problems.
While students crossing against the
light at College and Grove Streets
and the "frightening entrance" to
the Yale Art Gallery may be annoy-
ances to New Havenites, larger prob-
lems exist to which Chauncey should
devote more time-such as the Med-
ical School's lack of involvement
with the health problems of the Hill
neighborhood. He claims that the
university has not made itself "un-
derstandable to the official city peo-
ple"; the fact may be, however, that
the city people understand Yale all
too well.


Chauncey does recognize that Yale
has been too cavalier with New Ha-
ven. He noted in his article that the
problem with the colleges was not
simply over the tax question, but al-
so involved historic antagonisms,
and Yale's over-optimism about hav-
ing its way.


For the future, Chauncey has as-
sembled a staff to deal with the
town-gown problem. They have di-
vided their task into five key areas:
educational and cultural, physical
plant, economic and financial, medi-
cal care, and volunteer. Within these
divisions, Chauncey hopes to care-
fully investigate everything
from how Yale could make its facili-
ties more available, to how Yale's
considerable investment real estate
holdings affect New Haven's neigh-
borhoods.


Chauncey's efforts are at least a
first step. The question remains
when and if he will present a co-
herent and workable plan to the Cor-
poration and how the Corporation
will treat such a plan. If Yale main-
tains the view that its "mission"
cannot allow it to actively work with
New Haven, the university may find
that it is jeopardizing its own goals
in the process.


**But the King Wears No Crown**
**Author: Jon Etra**
**Page number(s): 15**

Power inspires a multitude of hats.
If we consider the innumerable
positions, legitimate and ex officio,
occupied by the President of Yale, it
would be no trivial matter to catalogue
the concomitant assortment of hats
so Byzantine an eminence implies.
One envisions a hat box as big as
Beinecke, a special wing of Woodbridge
to contain the load. Curiously,
however, Mr. Brewster has chosen
otherwise. Sans fedora, sombrero,
panama, and fez, he is consistently
hatless. There is no tangible hat in
his life.

Of course for graduation he poses in
the sporty Oxford cap and at late
season games waves his sturdy
Russian black fur for the fans. A
rather amorphous beige cotton rain
hat is also reported from time to time
in his keeping. But all told these
amount to little in the great cranial
equipage of eternity, the head cover-
ing struggle of our race.

True, the hat is not indispensible
even to the traditional titular
authority. Did Caesar wear a hat?
Was Einstein hatted at the discovery
of relativity. Witness Adam at the
creation-is there a hat? Hatlessness
is by no means a stigma, clearly not
at all the social indiscretion of let us
say shoelessness, facelessness or
mindlessness. And yet one may in
the long run expect something by
way of a boater or deerstalker from
the PRESIDENT OF YALE. Some-
thing by way of a concession to the
role, not ostentatious or gaudy, but
in keeping with the high stature and
miasma of place, something is cer-
tainly in order. Indeed, not as a mere
gesture to tradition, but as vividly
functional appendage, a cranial buf-
fer against the contemptuous on-
slaught of time and change.

But I would not force circum-
stance upon anyone bold enough to
resist. If Mr. Brewster would breast
the elements bareheaded, unhouselled
and resolute, why then so be it. I
salute him. Why be encumbered by
the ineffective cranial baggage of the
past, the cerebral cloth of our
mortality?

And returning again to Dr.
Suess, in the end hatlessness may be
the greatest of all labors. As Bar-
tholomew Cubbins' agon irrevocably
details, the turmoil of achieving
hatlessness is the difference twixt
innocence and understanding. And
for such vision in our own aspiring
leader, we must all tip our
hats in applause.


Jon Etra
Jon Etra is a personal friend of
Bartholomew Cubbins.


**Partners**
**Author: N/A**

Partners
Good writing
Good reading
Good advertising
The Yale Banner
Publication
The Yale Banner Inc. and The New Journal are
pleased to announce that as of this issue, they have
become Partners in Publication. The Banner now
manages all of the financial
affairs of The New Journal,
but the editorial direction remains
completely independent. Thus, The New Journal can
continue to be excellent and can continue to sur-
vive. As an advertiser, this means that you can
deal with one company to secure the guaranteed
readership market of The New Journal, The Student Directory,
the Old Campus, the Student Guide and the LIT.


2840 Whitney Ave.
Hamden
BEGINNING DECEMBER 12th
Sale on Discontinued Gerry Equipment
20% off on all 73-74 Gerry Sleeping Bags
Gerry South Face Tent was $110 now $88
Gerry Year-Round II was $125 now $100
Gerry Packs and Frames 20% off
248-4475


CALL ME.
You know I'm cramming for
exams ... so why not call me?
I could use the moral support.



**Title: IF YOU DON'T MAKE IT INTO THE BANNER DIRECTORY OF ORGANIZATIONS, YOU JUST DON'T MAKE IT.**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
IF YOU DON'T MAKE IT INTO THE 
BANNER 
DIRECTORY OF ORGANIZATIONS, 
YOU JUST DON'T MAKE IT. 
The 1975 Yale Banner yearbook will include a Directory of Organizations, complete with full 
descriptions of the group's activities, full membership rosters, and a photograph of the group. 
Whether you're in MEChA, BSAY, or YUWO, The Revue, New Journal, or Daily, the Dramat, the 
Symphony, or the Baker's Dozen, Dwight Hall, U.S. Grant Foundation, or Alpha Phi, the Prom 
Committee, Tang Team, or JCSC, there is a place for you in the Banner. 
Any Yale College or residential college organization providing enlightenment, entertainment or 
service to others is eligible for inclusion. 
What's the catch? The organizations must provide all the material: a description (maximum 150 
words), the list of officers and members, and the optional group portrait. 
Too much effort? It should take very little time, and it will secure for you and your organization a 
handsome niche in Yale College's only permanent record. 
Call us at 68650 for more information, or bring your statement and roster to the Yale Banner, 
under the Woolsey Dome. 
DEADLINE WEDNESDAY 15 JANUARY 
ItS more than a yearbook. ItS your book. 



new haven 
terminal 
represents one of the largest and finest trans· 
shipment facilities in southern New England 
today. It -coordinates · ·11 transfer and trucking 
operations incl ... ding: (a) modern pier berths 
(b) stevedoring for all types of cargo, (c) ship's 
agent service, (d) warehours and open storage, 
(e) export and import handling, and (f) a uni-
fied trucking service throughoUt southern New 
England. 
Today the Terminal maintains three major berths 
affording 35' M'L 'W' at a 650' pier and a quay 
with shipside rail. Wittlthese facilities. and with 
New Haven Harbor's 35' deep water channel, the 
largest freighters and tankers of normal draft in 
use today can be accomodattd. 
The Terminal's many acres of open storage, and mil-
lion cubic feet of (dry pipe protected) warehouse 
space are served by spurs which connect directly 
with the Penn Central main line to Boston and 
New York, Hartford-Springfield-Worcester line, 
etc. Motor line connections and trucks benefit from 
the new Conr-cticut Turnpike, (New England 
Thruway or Interstate 95) Exit 49 of which is less 
than 500 yards away, and which leads almost im-
mediately to Interstate Route 91. 
30waterfront street 
~

