Publication date: September 2013
Volume: 46
Issue number: 1

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Tessa Berenson
- Editors-in-chief: Sophia Nguyen, Cindy Ok
- Executive editor: Benjamin Mueller
- Managing editors: Eric Boodman, Julia Calagiovanni
- Design editors: Lian Fumerton-Liu, Emmett Kim, David Shatan-Pardo
- Photo editor: Maya Binyam
- Senior editors: Ava Kofman, Isabel Ortiz
- Associate editors: Maya Averbuch, Lara Sokoloff, Grace Steig, Ike Swetlitz
- Copy editors: Nathalie Levine, Justine Yan
- Staff writers: Gideon Broshy, Ashley Dalton
- Members and directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O’Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

All in a Life’s Work - Arielle Stambler
Where the Wild Things Are - Sophia Nguyen
points of departure - Julia Calagiovanni and TNJ Staff
Best Video - Madeleine Witt
Making Believe - Aaron Gertler
From the NSA, With Love - Jesse Schreck
Step by Step - Diana Saverin
Saving Grace - Ashley Dalton


**Title: All in a Life’s Work**
**Author: Arielle Stambler**
**Page number(s): 24**
A new initiative addresses the needs of the long-term unemployed.


**Title: Where the Wild Things Are**
**Author: Sophia Nguyen**
**Page number(s): 11**
A Bridgeport zoo adopts an orphaned bobcat kitten.


**Title: points of departure**
**Author: Julia Calagiovanni and TNJ Staff**
**Page number(s): 4**
standards


**Title: Best Video**
**Author: Madeleine Witt**
**Page number(s): 31**
comic


**Title: Making Believe**
**Author: Aaron Gertler**
**Page number(s): 32**
critical angle


**Title: From the NSA, With Love**
**Author: Jesse Schreck**
**Page number(s): 40**
endnote


**Title: Step by Step**
**Author: Diana Saverin**
**Page number(s): 7**
personal essay


**Title: Saving Grace**
**Author: Ashley Dalton**
**Page number(s): 19**
profile



**Title: Taking the Stage**
**Author: Devon Geyelin**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
From the Harlem-125th Street Station, it 
was a simple subway ride uptown to Bronx­
works, a community center on the borough’s 
artery, the Grand Concourse. I settled into 
a folding chair in a bright room, facing a 
makeshift stage. A dozen middle-schoolers 
outfitted in matching T-shirts mingled on­
stage, nervous and excited. A tall bald guy, 
intense and energetic, introduced himself 
as a “joker,” or facilitator, and explained to 
the audience that we were “spect-actors,” 
not spectators. Then he urged us to be alert: 
“What’s the thing that makes you angry?”

The students launched into a short play 
based on their own experiences, about start­
ing a girls’ basketball team at their school. 
After they seek guidance from a teacher—
played by a peer of theirs decked out in a 
comically oversized blazer—he tells them 
that they need to fundraise for uniforms and 
equipment. The students are passed from 
one teacher to another, none of whom is 
willing to commit to coaching them. Even­
tually even their principal dismisses their 
idea.
“Who thinks they could change this?” 
the joker asked. Almost everyone around 
me thought they could. An “awww, hell 
yeah,” rose from the audience. We were 
asked to think of a possible solution, then 
share it with the person next to us. “Any­
thing that’s possible in the world is possible 
on this stage,” the joker reminded us.

I turned to the girl next to me, who was 
just a few years younger than the kids on 
stage. But before I could launch into an ex­
planation of Title IX, she pointed and told 
me, with obvious pride, “That’s my brother.”

Here, the idea is that the spect-actors 
belong to the community, and the commu­
nity belongs to the spect-actors. They know 
each other’s experiences and frustrations. 
By naming them, together, they can begin 
to change them. Interrogation leads to in­
vestigation, and then to transformation.

The afternoon’s performance was a for­
mat called “forum theatre,” one of many 
structured activities used by the Theatre of 
the Oppressed, a method developed in the 
seventies by Brazilian actor and artist Au­
gusto Boal. Boal’s project of liberation was 
as simple as it was visionary, creating games 
that take on complex issues like internalized 
oppression and democratic representation. 
“All theatre is necessarily political, because 
all the activities of man are political and 
theatre is one of them,” his manifesto be­
gins. Boal published the book while in exile 
from Brazil, having been arrested, tortured, 
and forced to leave by a military dictator­
ship. Working throughout South America 
with ordinary peasants and workers, he es­
tablished the Center for the Theatre of the 
Oppressed in Rio de Janeiro. The method 
spread through South America, but did not 
stop there, making its way to Europe, New 
York, New Haven, and beyond. 

Theatre of the Oppressed owes its New 
York existence to Katy Rubin, a native of 
New Haven. She grew up in a family of arts 
and activism, and first met Boal when she 
was fifteen. After graduating from the act­
ing conservatory at Boston University, she 
started to study his method more intensive­
ly. While working as a teaching artist in New 
York’s public schools, Rubin noted that in­
teractive art could improve students’ grades 
and behavior. Theatre of the Oppressed, 
she found, could be used to “activate social 
change” and “engage diverse communi­
ties”—but it had yet to come to New York 
City. Now, there are troupes with homeless 
actors, and strangers approach them in sub­
way tunnels to ask, “Weren’t you in that play 
the other day?” Rubin says that power shifts 
when the ostracized are given a voice, and 
can become recognized.


In 2011, Rubin returned to her hometown 
to hold New Haven’s first Theatre of the Op­
pressed training. One of the jokers trained 
there is a woman named Janet Brodie, who 
in her day job coordinates group therapy at 
a mental health clinic on Chapel Street. Bro­
die, who specializes in creative arts therapy, 
finds that the techniques of Theatre of the 
Oppressed “dovetail with the goals of ther­
apy,” helping clients to develop spontaneity 
and relationship skills.

Brodie’s work extends to the wider 
New Haven community. Most recently, she 
has worked on a “Healthy Aging” project, 
a forum theatre group for older people liv­
ing with mental illness. A group of seven 
worked for eight weeks, creating skits and 
spoken word poems, which they performed 
along with forum theatre at local mental 
health facilities and for the local chapter 
of the National Alliance on Mental Illness. 
“Who oppresses?” her notes for the proj­
ect read. “Self,” “police,” “therapist,” par­
ticipants wrote. One added, “I can only go 
so far with the way I am being made invis­
ible.” As the project challenges, it aims to 
empower. A flier for workshop participants 
reassures them, “If you are feeling confused 
in the workshops, it means that the work is 
going well.” 

New Haven is taking the work even 
more into its own hands: jokers will be run­
ning their own training this upcoming Sep­
tember during a weekend’s crash course in 
Theatre of the Oppressed that ends with a 
performance. The project’s organizers hope 
the momentum continues. “It could go a 
million places,” Brodie said.

The New York project’s reach gives an 
idea of just what those million places might 
be. The city’s branch also conducts work­
shops in a Staten Island youth court; at 
the Harvey Milk High School, an alternative 
school for queer youth who have been ha­
rassed at other schools; at Housing Works, 
a center for people experiencing poverty 
and homelessness; in psychiatric hospitals 
and soup kitchens and public schools, with 
refugees, domestic workers, and undocu­
mented immigrants. 

“This is a real story. This is real life,” the 
joker at Bronxworks said at the top of the 
show. It is real life, but it is also a vision of 
a world of reality and possibility, of imagi­
nation and empowerment and fearlessness, 
of spect-actors and jokers, and crowded 
rooms in community centers on sunny 
spring afternoons.
— Julia Calagiovanni


**Title: Imperfect Pitch**
**Author: TNJ Staff**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

“DO YOU SING?” 
Yale boasts over four hundred active un­
dergraduate organizations, but if you mea­
sure activity in terms of decibel levels, there 
is really only one to note. Every August, 
hordes of ardently chirpy a cappella singers 
descend upon timid freshmen continuously 
asking the dreaded question. Oh, you anx­
ious-to-please freshmen, making bad jokes 
like, “Only in the shower!” “Well, I’m not go­
ing to quit my day job!” After the hundredth 
ask, even questions such as, “Are you mad 
at me?” and, “Do you have a boyfriend?” 
would suddenly seem like fun, normal con­
versation starters to you. You begin to won­
der, “Should I sing?” before remembering 
that you cannot, and have never been able 
to. 

The onslaught doesn’t stop at the ex­
tracurricular bazaar. One night at the dining 
hall, the topic of conversation is “rushing.” 
Well, every night at the dining hall, the topic 
of conversation has been rushing, but it isn’t 
until this particular plate of Berkeley mac  
’n’ cheese that you realize: it’s never been 
about Greek life! It’s always been about a 
cappella! You feel bewildered and bereft as 
you try to keep up with the chatter about 
callbacks, rush meals, and singing desserts. 
None of this was in any of the movies. Is this 
college? Where are the togas?

A cappella rush season and its full cal­
endar of parties and performances has tra­
ditionally sprawled over the entire month 
of September. It ramps up for a pre-tap pe­
riod, when the thirteen singing groups un­
der the Singing Group Council (SGC) alert 
the hopefuls of their picks. When the pro­
cess finally culminates in “tap night,” each 
singing group selects its fastest runner to 
sprint through the Old Campus gates and 
up the stairs of the freshman dorms. The 
upperclassmen singers are drunk—either on 
vodka or on the festive spirit. Some groups 
wear matching T-shirts and yell nonsense. 
Other groups wear matching jersey pin­
nies and sing nonsense. Some freshmen cry 
of joy. Others cry from rejection. Together, 
the newly constituted and divinely chosen 
groups belt out that immortal anthem that 
closes out the musical version of Les Mis­
erables: “Do You Hear The People Sing?”

Yes. Yes we do.

But rush is not the lawless free-for-all 
that we tone-deaf outsiders may think it to 
be. It operates according to a highly ordered 
system of rules spelled out for the first time 
this year in a Rush Manifesto—a document 
sanctioned, circulated, and enforced by the 
aca gods, the almighty SGC. The council 
is always composed of two men and two 
women, including one member from each 
of the all-senior groups, the Whiffenpoofs 
and Whim ‘n Rhythm. 

“In recent Yale a cappella history, we 
as a community have gotten vicious dur­
ing rush,” the 2013 manifesto, sub-headed 
“How to Not be an Ass,” admits. The docu­
ment speaks to change that is radical and 
relevant for the entire campus: rush will be 
shortened by almost two weeks. The calen­
dar change avoids the overlap of Peter Sa­
lovey’s inauguration and Parents’ Weekend.

Over the course of seventeen pages, 
the manifesto outlines proper procedure for 
each stage of the rush process. Before the 
first big a cappella party at the off-campus 
house of the Sons of Orpheus and Bacchus, 
each group must deliver their tithe of al­
cohol to the house no later than forty-five 
minutes before the start of festivities. Dur­
ing the second, more intimate Dwight Hall 
Jam, space will be limited, the manifesto 
warns, leading us to rule number two, “Only 
necessary personnel should be present dur­
ing setup—Don’t crowd Dwight with people 
standing around doing nothing. You’re not 
fooling anyone.”

Further bylaws govern behavior out­
side of official events, including what the 
manifesto terms “outside contact.” It bans 
unsanctioned meals, secret meetings, and a 
litany of other activities: “No picnics,” “No 
sketch walks,” and, “No sitting with rushees 
in class.” Bolded type announces “the new 
T-shirts rule,” which has been relaxed this 
year in order to allow singers to wear their 
group’s T-shirt as soon as their feet land in 
New Haven in August. “It takes a special 
person to abuse the power of an a cappella 
shirt,” the manifesto reads. We think they’re 
all special. 

But what is crime without punishment? 
Extreme violations of the “Spirit of Rush” 
may call for the convening of not only the 
Singing Group Council, but also a subcom­
mittee, which needs to rule with a three-
quarters majority vote that a violation had 
occurred. These measures are supplement­
ed by online “badgering hotlines,” which 
allow rushees to email the SGC to anony­
mously report instances of harassment. 
Unfortunately the Council has yet to re­
lease the badgering hotline information for 
the rest of us, but we’ll let you know if we 
hear anything. After all, this is an a cappella 
world. We’re just living in it.
— TNJ Staff



**Title: Step By Step**
**Author: Diana Saverin**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
september 2013
7
B
ill’s hand grips a microphone. He is 
calling a contra dance—a style of group 
folk dance—in the barn attached to his 
house. It is one of his monthly parties, which 
require no invitation, called “Bethany Music 
and Dance”—BMAD for short. His fuzzy 
blond dreadlocks, dotted and decorated 
with beads and string, are bunched together 
on his back. His face is wrinkled and leathery, 
the look of someone who spends more time 
outside than in. His shirt reads, “May Day 
2002, War on Terrorism, War is Terrorism.” 
His feet are bare.


We stand in the middle of the barn, 
below the arched beams of the high ceiling. 
Braided ribbons and fabrics hang on the 
walls and above the heads of the eighty-
odd people now crowding inside, ready to 
dance. Wooden sculptures of bodies dangle 
from wires attached to the ceiling. In one 
corner, there is also a paper skeleton from 
Bill’s former doctor days. The walls are 
covered in posters: an old American flag 
with the slogan, “Give it Your Best!”; fields of 
wildflowers; patchwork designs on leather; 
an old sepia portrait; yellowed and fraying 
newspaper clippings. The band is warming 
up in the corner near the fireplace; tonight it 
includes a recorder, a fiddle, a mandolin, and 
a banjo. The air is thick and hot. It smells of 
woodchips and dust, mixed with the dewy, 
late spring breeze that occasionally makes 
its way inside from the open door in the 
back. We haven’t started dancing, but Bill’s 
face already shines with sweat.


He squints at me, then smiles. “I 
recognize you now,” he says. 


In 1980, a slightly younger Bill Fischer 
had just moved back to New Haven—he 
graduated from Yale in 1966—when he and 
his wife first tried contra dancing. They were 
drawn to the live music and the community 
of 
strangers 
dancing 
and 
following 
instructions to the beat. Back then, New 
Haven had a vibrant contra dance scene, 
with dances three times a month, and a 
regular get-together for those who wanted 
to learn how to play the barn dance music. 
A decade later, Bill bought his house 
in Bethany—a small town made up of 
mostly farmland a twenty-minute drive 
from downtown New Haven. Soon, people 
started to gather at the house, mostly to 
play music: Bill plays the pennywhistle and 
recorder and his wife plays the fiddle. The 
first music party happened in September 
1991, with just ten or so people, but each 
gathering brought in more guests. The 
crowd increased most dramatically when 
another woman who held music gatherings 
left town in the late nineties; her frequenters 
heard about Bill and began meeting up at 
his house in Bethany. In the early 2000s, 
an influx that Bill calls the “undergraduate 
brushfire” 
started. 
Now, 
amateur 
professional musicians alike jam in the many 
cluttered rooms of his house one Friday a 
month, along with students and former 
medical patients of Bill’s. Some are BMAD 
regulars, others heard about the dance 
on CouchSurfing.org. Bill himself does not 
seem bothered by the crowd.


“The whole thing’s evolved, but there’s 
no way to stop it,” he says. “It’s word of 
mouth, and people will find out about it. No 
one has squatting rights.” 


He talks about his house as if he doesn’t 
own it all; on dance nights, it belongs 
equally to whoever passes in and out. He is 
loyal to the space, but he is more invested 
in the connections people make through his 
gatherings.


Four years after I hold 
Bill Fischer’s hand for the first 
time, he learns my name.
 	
“Dana? Diane?” He asks.


--- Page 8 ---

8
the new journal
The night Bill learns my name, I wander 
in from the highway, which is lined with cars 
on both sides, to find his backyard buzzing 
with people.	


I walk inside. There are dried roses 
and scooped-out gourds scattered along 
open surfaces, and various fur pelts hang 
in the sitting room that the door opens 
into. Toward the kitchen, brownies, grapes, 
zucchini bread, chips, macaroni and cheese, 
and more cover a table above a brightly 
patterned cloth. In a small room adjacent to 
the kitchen, four people are playing Simon 
& Garfunkel songs. On the wall a sign reads, 
“No smoking, no loitering, no hair combing.” 
In the living room, someone is playing a 
piano by the fireplace. Everywhere, people 
are talking, laughing, filling up empty yogurt 
containers with water, trying to fit through 
the crowd to get to the stairs, looking at 
posted newspaper clippings, asking each 
other’s names, if they’ve ever been here, if 
they’re from New Haven. 


Around ten, word spreads that the 
dancing will start soon. Some wander 
up the narrow staircase and through the 
hallway toward the barn. As people fill the 
room, Bill begins practicing scales into the 
microphone near the band. 


“Real estate is an important consideration. 
Is anyone too cold?” Bill says.


People smirk. It is the end of May, and 
every person’s face shines with sweat.


“Let’s be careful now, okay? Not just 
with the band but with each other,” he 
continues. We are bunched together in 
the barn so close to one another you can 
hardly stand without your back brushing up 
against someone else.


The person I’m paired with, John, stares 
in disbelief at the bare feet of the man to 
my left.


“Kind of risky, don’t you think, room this 
crowded, to have bare feet like that?” he 
asks. 


The man with the bare feet is dancing 
with a middle-aged woman in a strappy 
floral dress that reaches her calves. Her 
brown hair sticks to her neck, and the 
combination of her giddy smile, hazy blue 
eyes, and sweat-soaked skin makes her look 
slightly delirious. Bill calls for us to step 
toward new partners. The woman looks 
at me with her head tilted, and says hello, 
extending the last syllable as she steps 
back. When we step toward each other 
again, she says, “You’re beautiful.” Then we 
grab each other’s forearms for a left-hand 
star. Sometimes the moves switch quickly, 
but anyone can join in and follow along. The 
one rule of contra dancing, Bill says, is that if 
you’re smiling, you’re doing it right.


At the end of the dance, Bill says that it’s 
time to find a new partner. 


“If you have a boy and a girl, the boy is on 
the left. If you have a same-gender couple, 
bravo.”


The music starts again, but Bill yells 
to stop: someone in the middle is alone. 
Bodies shift until everyone is paired. My new 
partner is lanky, and a few years older than 
me. He has a red beard and his hair is pulled 
back into a bun. It’s his first time here, and 
he tells me he heard about contra dance 
through word of mouth. 


“This is better than a chat room!” he 
says, as we do-si-do.


He has dark wings on the back of his 
shirt from sweat. This dance opens up into 
two circles, with mostly men on the inside 


--- Page 9 ---

9
and mostly women on the outside. Partners 
hit right hands like high fives, then hit left 
hands, then hit both hands, then both hit 
their hands against their own thighs each 
three times, then the partners swing. The 
women on the outside rotate around the 
circle, so that we swing and dance with 
half of the dancers. You learn a lot about 
a person by the way they swing—whether 
they jolt you back and forth, hold you with 
a solid hand on your back, wait for you to 
determine the pace, spin tightly around 
one foot, jump into the middle of the circle 
and skip. There are the 
uncertain ones who are 
scared to hold you close 
and the ones who make 
you fly. 


I dance with a man 
named Jonah, who asks 
at the end, “where have 
these people been all of 
my life?”


We finish the loop and arrange ourselves 
for a new dance, a new partner. Before we 
begin, Bill tells us to look down.


“That’s your home,” he says. “Remember 
it, because you’ll have to find your home 
this time.” 


That music and dance bring people 
together is no surprise, but it can be hard 
work sometimes, this business of getting 
strangers to hold hands, to see each other. 
There are different strategies. I’ve seen 
some try improvised dance or movement, 
which focuses on freeing the body and mind 
from habitual motion, entering a space to 
discover new possibilities of movement and 
interaction. Others use games or spaces 
of play to ease the interaction between 
strangers: a group in Pittsburgh called 
Obscure Games calls this “social grease.” 
It’s a rare space where I’ve forgotten to 
be stingy with my love, to save my social 
self for designated social time. I live so 
much of my life in New Haven separated 
from strangers; here, walls between selves 
break down. Every person in the room is 
a potential conversation or connection. 


As we accept the night’s many gifts, like 
homemade lemonade in an old yogurt 
container, we forget that we don’t know 
each other. Instead, we hold hands, skip and 
swirl, swing and dance, find our home. 


The first time I meet Bill in daylight is the 
day after he learns my name. I am surprised 
by the quiet in the house. I hear the screen 
door slam behind me.


“Bill?” I call. The pelt of a wolf I’ve never 
noticed hangs in front of me. I can see its 
nose, where its eyes would have been.


Bill wanders into the kitchen with 
no shirt and no shoes, 
wearing a pair of soccer 
shorts. He gives me a hug, 
and I say how strange it is 
to be here during the day, 
how quiet it is.


“That’s 
a 
common 
reaction,” he says, as he 
pours coffee into his drip 
machine. 


We lean against the counter and talk 
about his years at Yale, some trouble he got 
into for drinking, his stint traveling around 
Alaska, his life in medical school, then as 
a doctor. With coffee in ceramic mugs, 
we wander out into his sun-streaked yard. 
A pen falls out of the bun on my neck. He 
picks it up and laughs.


“Lord knows what could fall out of my 
hair.”


We sit on a bench hanging from a tree 
in the shade, looking out into the swaying 
grasses of his yard where the maypole 
stands. I try to understand why people treat 
each other so kindly at Bill’s when strangers 
so often ignore each other. Bill’s theory is 
that “usual social niceties are subsumed in 
music and motion.”


He continues, “Social dancing, it’s not 
like disco, where you’re dancing by yourself 
or with a more dedicated partner. This is 
choreographed, and there’s some bozo with 
a microphone telling you what to do.”


He says that the warmth of the 
community is amplified by the fact that 
you have to dance with many partners 
throughout the evening. He laughs when he 
finds out that I went to my first dance as a 



**Title: the new journal**
**Author: Cuchulain Kelly**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10
the new journal
freshman.
“I’ve known you four years, and don’t 
know who you are,” he says. 
By midnight we are holding hands. Bill 
breaks the circle, pulling us into a spiral 
which unspools and leads downstairs, where 
we weave through cluttered rooms full of 
people and music, then to the basement, 
wandering past the ping-pong table and 
the punching bag, then back up to the barn. 
The song stops, we clap for the band, and 
finally, it is time for the last dance: the group 
waltz. The recorder slows; the notes stretch. 
It is the waltz where, a year ago, I began a 
romance that led to months of letters and 
poems. It is the waltz where I have been 
clutched by a nervous man who asked to 
dance without making eye contact, and 
then once we were dancing, counted, “1, 2, 
3; 1, 2, 3” under his breath, his concentration 
too fierce for interruption. It is the waltz 
where I have laughed holding a roommate, 
spinning each other around, dancing only 
on our toes. But tonight, I sway, instead. I 
join into a circle with Bill, and he counts, “1, 
2, 3; 1, 2, 3” into his microphone. Our sweaty 
arms touch and wrap around each other, 
and we move our feet to the beat, counting 
“1, 2, 3; 1, 2, 3; 1, 2, 3.”
Diana Saverin is a senior in Berkeley College. 
Bill Buford plays music and calls dances at Bethany Music and Dance.


**Title: feature WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE**
**Author: Sophia Nguyen**
**Page number(s): 11**

feature
WHERE
THE
WILD
THINGS
ARE
A Bridgeport zoo adopts an orphaned bobcat kitten.
By Sophia Nguyen


**Page number(s): 12**

12
W
e meet for the first time in October 
2012, with a set of metal bars 
between us. Safe on our opposite 
sides, we size each other up. BeeZe (rhymes 
with “easy”) blinks first, blandly, which only 
goes to show you the stupidity of a staring 
contest with an opponent who’s indifferent 
to the game. BeeZe has nothing to prove. 
BeeZe is a creature of limitless patience. 
BeeZe has eyes worth a long deep stare: 
hazel-colored and lamp-like, their expression 
lying somewhere between complacence 
and alertness. His gaze flicks between the 
two people on either side of me. The man 
to my left presses his face thrillingly close 
to the cage.
“Hey, big guy,” Gregg Dancho, director of 
Bridgeport’s Beardsley Zoo, says familiarly. 
The big guy blinks again. He also shivers, 
though that may be an illusion caused by 
the breeze rippling over his striated fur. 
“Hey, kitty.”
“Aww, are you chilly?” BeeZe’s trainer, 
Chris Clark, croons. BeeZe does not answer 
her. With a swish of stubby tail, he streaks 
from the raised platform to a lower branch, 
then lands silently on the concrete, lapping 
water from a silver pet bowl.
This is my first encounter with a bobcat, 
and the Beardsley staff claims that this 
bobcat is particularly remarkable. Making 
polite, 
appreciative 
noises, 
I 
respond 
as I often do to acquaintances’ beloved 
pets, enthusiasm masking bemusement 
at what seems to me to be a  weird and 
unfathomable love. At six months old and 
fifteen and a half pounds, BeeZe is roughly 
the size of an impressive housecat—you 
can imagine moving him out of the way 
when you fetch the morning paper, and he 
seems even tamer with a collar around his 
neck. But moving BeeZe anywhere takes 
experience: a quick, sure grab around in just 
the right place around his shoulder-blades, 
so that his mittenishly large paws protect 
you from his bite.
“That’s the physicality we never want 
the public to see,” Clark confides. If people 
catch sight of the zoo staff touching 
BeeZe—whether to correct unruly behavior 
or to provide comfort—they may get the 
wrong idea about how they should behave 
around a wild bobcat.
Right now, relatively few people catch 
a glimpse of BeeZe. Though he is part of 
the zoo’s educational program, he is not 
formally on exhibit. BeeZe has been raised 
in captivity with the goal of making him an 
“animal ambassador” for the Beardsley Zoo. 
While an ambassador’s duties may vary 
across zoos or species, the Beardsley staff 
sums them up as “edutainment”: an animal 
gets trotted out while its keeper explains its 
habits, habitat, and other key facts to the 
audience. Some ambassadors move within 
zoo grounds with a keeper, while others 
visit schools for educational assemblies. 
Others may appear at birthday parties or 
corporate events. Often, the price of the 
“Animal Encounter” escalates with the 
glamour of the animal.
The practice of maintaining off-exhibit 
animal ambassadors is not uncommon, 
especially 
among 
smaller 
institutions. 
The only zoo in the state of Connecticut, 
Beardsley is home to a mere three hundred 
specimens and seventy-five species, and 
has a budget of $3.5 million. BeeZe joins a 
modest diplomatic corps whose mammal 
members are mostly cute and harmless: 
a rabbit, a chinchilla, and a ferret. Yet the 
most significant difference between BeeZe 
and his colleagues is not size or rank on 
the food chain, but origin. The majority 
of Beardsley’s educational animals were 
acquired from former pet owners or from 
professional breeders. BeeZe comes from 
the wild. Now, he makes his home at a zoo 
“He needs to learn that he 
doesn’t want to kill us. ”
september 2013
Previous page: The bobcat kitten was found wandering alone, along a highway in Connecticut. 
Photo provided by the Beardsley Zoo.



**Title: BeeZe**
**Author: Justine Nguyen**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
september 2013
13
that can trace its lineage back to Barnum 
and Bailey’s Circus, in the 1920s.
He needs to learn, Clark jokes, that he 
doesn’t want to kill us. 
In May 2012, a bobcat kitten was found 
wandering alone by the side of a highway 
in Connecticut, his mother likely killed by a 
passing car. The Connecticut Department 
of Energy and Environmental Protection 
picked up the orphan, and for lack of a 
wildlife rehabilitation center in the area, 
called the Beardsley Zoo. Custody of the 
three-week-old transferred to Deputy Zoo 
Director Don Goff and his wife Janet. The 
Goffs, experienced animal rehabilitators, 
bottle-fed the kitten for the next seven 
weeks. He was named BeeZe, after the 
initials of his new home and employer.
The bobcat (Lynx rufus) has a range that 
encompasses the continental United States, 
southern Canada, and parts of Mexico. The 
Connecticut population is concentrated 
in the northwest corner of the state. In 
the last year, there have been sightings in 
Milford, Winchester, and North Haven. A 
shy and solitary species, the bobcat is at its 
most active just after dusk or before dawn, 
preferring areas dense with young brush. 
Seeking the spotlight is 
not in its nature. A wild 
bobcat would prefer not 
to interact with humans 
at all.
A normal kittenhood 
for BeeZe might have 
begun in a nest of dried 
leaves or moss. He would 
have lived for three to 
eleven days with his eyes 
still closed, and nursed 
alongside 
his 
siblings 
for the next sixty days. 
At 
about 
twenty-eight 
days old, he might have 
started to venture out of 
the rock crevice or hollow 
log that housed the den. 
By the time a new year came around, he 
likely would have left his mother’s territory, 
making room for the new litter already on 
the way.
At the zoo, the trajectory of BeeZe’s 
kittenhood has been extensively planned. 
The staff maintains a neatly labeled binder 
of BeeZe’s records dating back to his arrival, 
including his training schedule, medical 
information, and handling log, where they 
note any instance when they’ve made 
direct physical contact with him since his 
arrival. The records provide insight into 
a life of prevailing strangeness. BeeZe 
is constantly being met with some new 
experience that no wild bobcat would 
expect to encounter, like the rumble of a 
golf cart, the sight of someone in a baseball 
cap, or the mere, befuddling existence of 
stairs—an architectural feature for which he 
has no instinctive physical response. Each 
encounter initially terrified him.
BeeZe has training once in the morning 
and once in the late afternoon, sometimes 
with a third session in between. Three 
times a day, he’s fed a meal of ground-up 
horsemeat: breakfast can occur anytime 
between seven and nine, lunch between 
twelve and four, and dinner between four 
and nine. The schedule can’t be too regular, 
or he’ll become “regimented,” expecting 
food at an exact time each day and 
making his performances more difficult to 
schedule. Mondays are his day off. Having 
been adequately socialized, BeeZe will help 
educate visitors—most of them residents 
of Connecticut—about an animal that they 
may one day glimpse in their own backyard. 
Dancho, the zoo director, is quick to 
frame BeeZe’s story as an opportunity born 
out of necessity.
“BeeZe was a special, specific case,” he 
says. “He was a baby when he was brought 
here. So, at that point, we could just decide: 
it could go as a collection animal or it can go 
into programming. And the staff said, ‘let’s 
try to do this, and we’ll see what happens.’”
Dancho’s 
slip 
between 
pronouns, 
though 
accidental, 
reflects the uncertainty of 
BeeZe’s status between 
self-governing being and 
object, wild animal and 
pet. His trainers frequently 
emphasize his essential 
wildness, 
claiming 
that 
a 
bobcat 
cannot 
be 
domesticated—but at the 
same time, they remain 
leery of socializing BeeZe too thoroughly.
“If they’re too wild, then an injury could 
happen to them or to the handler, or to 
somebody,” says Dancho, “If they’re too 
much of a pet, then psychologically, they 
get damaged because they don’t know 
what they are.”
Sitting together in one of Beardsley’s 
classrooms, Dancho recounts the classic 
case of Travis the chimpanzee. Raised 
as a member of his owners’ household, 
Travis had acquired a number of uncannily 
human behaviors, like drinking wine from a 
stemmed glass. It’s believed that once he hit 
puberty, over-socialization and testosterone 
pushed the primate into violence, leading to 
a much-publicized incident in 2009 when he 
mauled a friend of the family whom he had 
known for years. Travis might be an extreme 
case, given chimpanzees’ intelligence and 
deep genetic similarities to humans. It may 
be more difficult to assess psychological 
damage to a bobcat, and more difficult to 
inflict it. But the zoo staff remains cautious. 
Dancho insists, “We want the animal to 
remain knowing it’s a bobcat. It’s important 
to do that.” There are strict rules for how 
visitors conduct themselves with BeeZe: 
“No cuddling, no hugging, no kissing. No 
touching with the hands.”
A good animal ambassador doesn’t let 
relations between his species and humans 
get too chummy.
Teaching a bobcat that he doesn’t want 
to kill you can be a full-time job. During the 
most crucial stretch of a kitten’s bonding 
period, it is imperative that he be exposed 
to humans even after Beardsley closes each 
day at 4 p.m. Left behind at the zoo for long 
and lonely overnights, the 
bobcat might not become 
properly socialized. For 
BeeZe’s first summer and 
autumn, Chris Clark, his 
primary caretaker, drove 
to and from work with 
a bobcat riding in back.  
Clark is on the staff of 
Beardsley’s 
education 
department, where she 
has years of experience working with 
animals and children, both at the zoo and in 
the classroom. Because of her background 
in training dogs for a K-9 unit, Clark was an 
intuitive choice for the job.
“You have to be a little nuts to try to 
do this,” she admits. “But it really is the 
opportunity of a lifetime.”
When she returned home at the end of 
the day, Clark would let the bobcat loose 
for a few hours. Unleashing his energy is 
essential both to BeeZe’s overall happiness 
and his good behavior. Clark believes that 
allowing the bobcat to jump on the furniture 
and generally behave as he likes enables 
him to work at the zoo with renewed 
concentration. He can walk on a leash, sit 
still for photos, and go into his carrier when 
directed. As the owner of several dogs and 
cats, Clark runs an exceptionally pet-friendly 
household: plenty of cardboard boxes to 
play with, no fragile tchotchkes.
“Luckily enough, my house is an open-
floor plan,” she says, “So he can run around 


14
the new journal

like an idiot.” 
Sometimes, one of Clark’s German 
shepherds would wrestle and roughhouse 
with him. When the dog overpowered 
BeeZe, she laid her forearms along his body, 
pinning the bobcat to the ground. When 
BeeZe overpowered the dog, he jumped 
on her hindquarters and launched himself 
to execute a perfect spin in midair; then 
he went for the throat. Clark has always 
been able to verbally intervene before 
anything’s gotten “too crazy,” and BeeZe 
has never bitten hard. Pairing big cats and 
domesticated dogs is not an uncommon 
practice: cheetahs at the San Diego and 
Houston Zoos have “companion canines” 
with whom they play. Still, the tussles never 
fail to impress.
“You realize,” she says matter-of-factly, 
“How an animal of his size can take down a 
full-grown deer.”
None of this fazes Clark, who discusses 
BeeZe with imperturbable humor and 
affection. While maintaining that, “I can’t get 
into his little brain,” she is an experienced 
reader of his body language and moods. 
She recalls, “When he was a baby, he would 
get over-tired from play and not realize he 
would need to take a nap. He would get 
cranky, like a human child. You would scoop 
him into his bed for a nappie, and he would 
get obnoxious.” 
Bearing Dancho’s rules in mind, I ask if 
bobcat kittens like being hugged.
“Well, their moms scoop them into the 
fold and groom them,” Clark says, “and the 
worst thing that could happen during a 
program is he gets scared and he gets loose.” 
Clark explains that her hug communicates 
to BeeZe that “I’m the mom, everything’s 
safe. I will protect you.”
A zoo occupies a slippery position on 
the continuum between domesticity and 
wildness: it’s a sanctuary with reinforced 
borders, an intensively managed series of 
dioramas, a nonprofit organization that 
must entertain to survive. The modern 
zoo justifies its existence by measuring its 
distance from its crueler, more exploitative 
forebears: the traveling circus, the private 
menagerie, the drive-thru amusement park.
BeeZe’s home bears an uncomfortably 
close resemblance to those cheap public 
entertainments. 
James 
W. 
Beardsley 
donated one hundred acres of land to 
Bridgeport in 1878, architect Frederick Law 
Olmstead drew up designs for the park in 
1884, and Parks Commissioner Wesley F. 
Hayes proposed the zoo in 1920—but the 
name that looms largest is that of Phineas T. 
Barnum, the impresario who sold millions of 
tickets to his circus after he acquired its most 
famous performer, Jumbo the Elephant. 
Barnum and Bailey’s animals wintered in 
the city, and legend has it that the keepers 
exercised their charges in the streets. 
Residents would spread picnic blankets on 
the grounds of Beardsley Park to watch the 
parade from “The Greatest Show on Earth”: 
big cats and giraffes, elephants and zebras. 
The public’s enthrallment to the spectacle 
purportedly inspired the establishment of 
the Beardsley Zoo. Barnum contributed 
a camel to its founding collection, and a 
number of circus retirees would join the 
zoo’s ranks over the years.
Beardsley was formally taken over by 
the city of Bridgeport in the 1920s, and its 
exhibits and attitudes stayed stuck in that 
era through the 1980s, when the federal 
Department of Agriculture found it in 
violation of new licensing requirements. 
Animals ranged on concrete, in overcrowded 
cages. Main roads passed right next to the 
exhibits. Families entered by driving directly 
into the zoo, and children would leave their 
cars, check both ways for oncoming traffic, 
and run right up to the cages. Beardsley’s 
layout put the entertainment of the public 
first, reflecting the outdated assumption that 
a clean cage and full food bowl represented 
the extent of an animal’s needs.
“There was no rhyme or reason to the 
exhibits,” Dancho says, recalling childhood 
visits to the zoo after church on Sundays. 
“They were basically random.” He gestures 
to various buildings along the walkways, 
where there was once a Mouse House, a 
petting zoo, and at one point, a Wizard 
of Oz-themed exhibit. “There was no 
place to have an educational program, no 


15

His trainers frequently 
wildness, claiming that 
a bobcat cannot be 
domesticated.



**Title: The Beardsley Zoo's Bobcat Ambassador**
**Author: Justine Nguyen**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
16
the new journal
classrooms.” 
Dancho has been employed at the zoo 
since high school, when he completed in-
service training for credit. He eventually 
became a full-time employee, earned a 
master’s degree in zoology, and was named 
the zoo’s director in 1983. Immediately, he 
sought city, state, and private funding for 
major renovations. To Dancho, the turning 
point for the Beardsley Zoo was becoming 
certified by the Association of Zoos and 
Aquariums (AZA) in 1987 for meeting 
its standards for animal care, physical 
facilities, and guest services. He continually 
makes 
reference 
to 
the 
AZA’s 
core 
principles of conservation and education—
an understandable reflex, given that he 
assumed directorship at a time when some 
suggested that the zoo simply be shut down 
altogether. Debate raged in the Hartford 
Courant: was the Beardsley Zoo a hidden 
gem, a Noah’s Ark in the most unlikely of 
cities? Or was it, as detractors claimed, little 
more than a postage stamp collection, a 
peep show of creatures deprived of their 
dignity?
Bound within Plexiglass walls or chain-
link 
fencing, 
today’s 
exhibits 
cheerily 
reenact the fractious overlap of human 
and animal environments. The path to the 
Wolf Observation Viewing Facility crosses 
through a replica of a hunter’s cabin, 
complete with vaguely period lanterns, hay 
bales, and farm tools. The alligator exhibit 
boasts a Southern-style wooden porch 
where the reptiles bask in the sun, right up 
against the glass and inches away from an 
old-fashioned rocking chair. Most of the old-
fashioned cages are gone, and the spaces 
are more expansive. But the architecture 
underscores that, as Head of Education Jim 
Knox puts it, “Wild is a qualified term.”


When I visit in October, the education 
office smells strongly of cat, and for several 
uncomfortable hours I suppress sneezes. As 
a young kitten, BeeZe became something 
of an office fixture, often allowed free reign 
while his trainers did paperwork; he quickly 
settled upon the filing cabinets as a favorite 
perch. By autumn, the need for constant 
proximity to his caretakers had abated, 
and he had grown too active and powerful 
to stay in that environment for long. His 
climbing tower and cage still stand next to 
one desk, and maintenance workers on their 
way to fix the roof peer around the corner 
to ask, “No bobcat today?”
“People have a fascination with cats,” 
explains Knox. He can sympathize: before


17
september 2013
coming to work at Beardsley, he was a 
keeper at the Bergen County Zoo in New 
Jersey, where his favorite animals were the 
mountain lions.
“I love those guys.” A boyish, dreamy 
smile spreads across his face. “I just think 
they’re magnificent.” He blinks, clarifying, 
“That’s not a scientific term,” then shrugs. 
“They scare the hell out of me, but I love 
them. It’s a fascination based on respect.”
For some on the fringes, fascination 
can give way to an unreserved and reckless 
infatuation. The Beardsley Zoo often finds 
itself 
fielding 
unsolicited 
“donations” 
from the owners of exotic, illegal, or 
otherwise unmanageable pets: crocodilians, 
unexpectedly large constrictors, venomous 
animals, even primates. More often than not, 
the zoo refuses.
“We don’t want to acquire 
people’s poor choices,” says 
Knox.
Most of the visiting 
public lies on the other 
end of the spectrum. To 
them, nature is something 
that 
exists 
elsewhere. 
Children from surrounding 
Bridgeport 
have 
only 
experienced animals as 
threats: rats, cockroaches, 
tough neighborhood dogs. 
Even suburban kids, who have more access 
to summer camp and scouting, don’t get the 
chance to discover nature in an uninhibited, 
unstructured way. The Beardsley Zoo is 
far from unstructured, but Knox sees it as 
a space where people can begin to forge 
a more ethical relationship to the wild, 
learning about native biodiversity, wildlife 
tolerance, and backyard conservation. In 
some ways, a local animal like BeeZe makes 
for the ideal ambassador.
“BeeZe strikes the balance between 
beautiful and safe,” Knox explains, “He’s not 
intimidating. He’s intelligent. He works well 
with people.”
The bobcat also has what Knox calls 
“charisma,” a term he finds difficult to define 
in an animal. Environmentalists, however, use 
the word with varying levels of irony, even 
dismissal: “charismatic” species, the bald 
eagles and humpback whales of this world, 
excite public response disproportionate 
to their actual ecological importance; at 
the same time, they can be leverage for 
those activists wishing to achieve more 
far-reaching goals. Otherwise, the term 
is often used as a catch-all, describing 
animals that are beautiful, affectionate, 
easily anthropomorphized, or fun to hunt. 
Inevitably, if unconsciously, the concept of 
“charisma” is linked to utility for humans. 
But when Knox talks about BeeZe’s 
charisma, he’s not talking about inter-
species relationships in the abstract. BeeZe’s 
charisma is individual and immediate, a 
function of evaporated distance, the shock 
of proximity. This is not about glamour 
shots, or the Discovery Channel. When 
BeeZe enters a room, he 
can make it go silent. 
In October, I sat in 
on one of BeeZe’s leash 
training sessions, held in 
the Learning Center where 
he would be making most 
of his presentations. It 
was one of the most 
unassuming areas of the 
zoo: several sets of metal 
bleachers ringed around a 
wooden stage backed by drab wooden sets. 
Someone had discreetly tacked a list of 
entrances, exits, and cues to the back of one 
of the walls, a leftover from some previous 
performance.


This was a two-trainer operation: one had 
a hold on the cat, and the other had a hold 
on the bait, a stick-and-string toy ending 
in a dangling fluffy tail. The secret was 
harnessing BeeZe’s prey drive, an exercise 
in empathy, intuition, and split-second 
anticipation. Expertly and even wittily 
controlled, the tail twitched just inches 
beyond his reach; the trainers watched for 
the twitch of an ear or the ripple of shoulder 
blades. BeeZe’s body language hinted at 
what he would do next, so that when he was 
about to propel forward, the trainer with the 
leash gave him the verbal command, “Let’s 
“I love those guys. They 
scare the hell out of 
me, but I love them. It’s 
a fascination based on 
respect.”


18
go,” and when he was about to jump, she 
called, “Up.” BeeZe would associate his 
own actions with his Ultimately, training 
was not about bending his will to theirs; 
human guidance had to be congruent with 
his natural instincts. Throughout, the leash 
needed to remain at a perfect degree of 
tautness. 
The 
entire 
process 
was 
incredibly 
quiet: no calliope music, no crack of the 
whip, just the sound of New England wind 
in the leaves, and beyond, the dull roar of 
traffic.  But for even in front of an audience 
of one,  BeeZe was a spectacle. The thrill I 
felt watching him was primal and strangely 
voyeuristic.
My return to the Learning Circle in August 
2013 brings the sight of a sign advertising 
for “BeeZe’s Wild Adventure!” and a line of 
young families and local summer campers 
waiting to be admitted. As the audience 
settles into the bleachers, volunteers in pale 
blue T-shirts circulate, offering a bobcat 
skull and swatch of fur for them to touch. 
The performance, ultimately, is a modest 
affair. Jim Knox takes the microphone and 
explains the rules to the small crowd: at 
their distance from the stage there is little 
danger of touching, but they all need to be 
quiet so that BeeZe can concentrate.
BeeZe enters, along with Clark and 
another trainer, Chrissy Shore. Shore has his 
leash, and Clark a leafy bamboo switch and 
a handful of treats: shrimp and a zoo feed 
called Feline Diet. The switch is dangled in 
front of him like the squirrel’s tail was once, 
directing his attention to a model waterfall 
onstage, or the wooden railing that they 
want him to balance along, or the ledge on 
which they want him to leap. As the three 
of them move behind him, Knox explains 
bobcat behaviors, elaborating on their 
preferred habitats, diet, and times of day. 
When he tells the visitors about how BeeZe 
came to live at the Beardsley Zoo, he jokes 
that the bobcat gets free room and board, 
and free medical and dental plans. The 
entire presentation lasts only around ten 
minutes, and after BeeZe exits the stage, 
Knox takes questions and answers from the 
crowd. A couple of people comment that 
they have seen bobcats in their yards, which 
piques his interest. “Which town?” Knox 
asks. When they ask what they should do 
about these sightings, he answers that they 
should just keep at a safe distance.
BeeZe 
performs 
this 
educational 
program about three times a week, in 
addition 
his 
other 
ambassadorial 
visits. His schedule since this February 
has included ten birthday parties, and a 
corporate event for the Bridgewater Fund. 
When he hits the one-year mark, the staff 
will begin advertising encounters with him 
more widely. He’s even more relaxed, they 
say, in the zoo’s indoor spaces. Though 
his trainers had worried about what would 
happen when he went through puberty at 
nine months—some animals refuse further 
training and socialization and must be 
transitioned to exhibits—the process was 
much less difficult than they had anticipated.
“Sometimes he was moody with us, but 
he’s a professional,” Chrissy says. “When he 
needs to work, he works.”
BeeZe will continue to educate assemblies 
of students and campers, and to make 
appearances at birthday parties. He will 
walk along the rows of kids who have 
been given strict instructions not to touch. 
They’ll whisper and shriek, exclaiming over 
his immaculate fluffiness, his nubby tail. 
What they are too young to notice, the 
adult guests might: his perceptive gaze, his 
impenetrable silence. They will take photos 
for which he will not pose, not exactly. 
BeeZe’s attention will move in unreadable 
ways. He will sit utterly composed, perfectly 
safe but never quite harmless, collar unable 
to make us forget those teeth.
Sophia Nguyen is an editor-in-chief of The 
New Journal.



**Title: Saving Grace**
**Author: Ashley Dalton**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
september 2013
19
Saving Grace
T
his is Lexington, a small town only an 
hour outside of Atlanta. But in this land 
of boiled peanuts and dairy farms, I feel 
worlds away. I’m in the Georgian countryside, 
at the home of Burl Salmon, my formƒer 
high school English teacher and a graduate 
of Yale Divinity School. His neighbor is the 
photographer for the magazine Gun and 
Garden, the self-proclaimed “Soul of the 
South.” I’ve been here a few times to visit 
Burl on trips back from college, and the area 
has always felt familiar. Though I grew up 
in Atlanta, my family comes largely from 
rural Virginia in the Blue Ridge Mountains. 
There, as here, the pace is slow. It’s a 
sweltering summer afternoon and thunder-
rolls reverberate through the surrounding 
pastureland, promising a storm. Still, Burl 
and I sit together outside on his porch, 
that sacred Southern meeting place for 
socializing and storytelling. 
“Would you like a glass of lemonade? 
Sweet tea?” he offers. A slight Southern 
twang accents his speech. 

The first time I met Burl, I was a 
teenager at a small, nondenominational 
Christian private school in Atlanta. Though 
my classmates would have denied being 
bigoted, gay people just didn’t fit into our 
conservative, privileged bubble, and we 
had never had a teacher as open about his 
sexuality as Burl.

He charmed my high school English 
class—and soon the entire school—into 
not only accepting, but also embracing his 
identity. For years, I have wondered how 
Burl managed to prove likeable even to the 
boys who called him a “fag” behind his back.

After I graduated, the school honored 
Burl with its most prestigious teaching award. 
Earlier that year, he had led the homecoming 
day parade in silver stilettos and a blond wig 
in the style of Aretha Franklin.

This fall, Burl will leave my old high 
school for a position as chaplain at an 
Episcopalian middle school in Charlotte, 
North Carolina. After making it through an 
unusually convoluted, decades-long process 
to become an Episcopalian priest, he is 
eager to start his first job in the ministry. He 
will commute to Charlotte during the week; 
on the weekends, he will continue to live 
with his husband Bob in their white-washed 
old farmhouse in Lexington. The house has 
fallen into disrepair, but they are giving the 
dining room a fresh coat of paint in a color 
I doubt it has seen before: “I call it coral, 
kissed by shrimp.”

“This is home now,” Burl explains. 
Here, in this old house, in a town where his 
ancestors once lived, he is finally putting 
down roots with his partner of ten years—
and his cat, Caspar. “Never forget the cat,” 
he instructs me.

This place reminds Burl of the farm 
where 
he 
grew 
up 
outside 
Natchez, 
Mississippi—a town whose motto is, “Where 
the Old South still lives.” Imagine mansions 
straight out of Gone with the Wind lined 
up along the mighty Mississippi. These 
antebellum homes are still owned in large 
part by families who struck rich on “white 
gold,” when the town was a major cotton 
exporter in the nineteenth century. To this 
day, local families participate in the Natchez 
Pilgrimage, a celebration of Southern 
opulence involving hoop skirts, long white 
gloves, and scenes of Confederate life. 
Burl was an actor in these annual tableaus 
from kindergarten through his junior year in 
college. 

“It must have been hard to grow up 
there, right?” I ask.

“Natchez is an odd little brigadoon,” 
Burl explains. “It is the most liberal corner 
of a highly conservative state. There’s 
this acceptance of the bizarre, which is 
so antithetical to what we understand as 
the South now, where everyone must be a 
Baptist and religiously conservative.”


There’s an old joke that most people 
hide their crazy relatives up in the attic 
while Southerners put them on the front 
porch. This is especially true in Natchez. 
For Burl, it was never unusual to see C.T. 
Kelly, a well-dressed, mentally handicapped 
man, wave to passersby while standing 
alongside a black servant paid for by his 
trust fund. Everyone waved back. It was 
equally unremarkable when a mother had a 
staircase installed down to the casket in her 
child’s grave in the Natchez City Cemetery 
because the girl was afraid of thunder, and 
her mother wanted to be able to sit with her 
during a storm.


In a town where oddity was the norm, 
Burl found it relatively easy to grow up as an 
openly gay boy—at least compared to the 
rest of Mississippi. The prevailing spirit of 
Natchez was aristocratic and laissez-faire, 
the kind of liberalism and sophistication 
afforded by longstanding wealth. Though 
sex and sexual orientation were never 
openly discussed in the community, Burl 
was just another eccentric local character. 


“There were more than a few well-
dressed antique dealers in town,” Burl says 
with a laugh. “I never knew what it was not 
to be out.”

This didn’t mean that he never got 
teased at school. He comments dryly, “It is 
unfortunate that the name Burl rhymes with 
girl.”

Growing up in Atlanta with technically 
Episcopalian, but essentially non-religious 
parents, I did not witness such acceptance. 
A classmate once told me she felt it was 
crucial that gay people never be allowed to 
marry. The Bible is against it, she said, “and 
if we don’t draw the line somewhere—then 
where will we draw it?” I wasn’t sure what to 
say. I didn’t know the Bible well enough then 
to counter that Jesus never condemned 
homosexuality, the way that Burl could have. 
I told her it seemed a little closed-minded. 

For the most part, Burl, who grew up 
Methodist, did find acceptance, especially 
at church. There, he did not encounter the 
prejudice he did at school—even the anti-gay 
Methodists at state conferences practiced 
Southern politeness in all regards. “I never, 
ever heard anyone say homosexuality was 
sinful,” he says. “The message of Southern 
Methodism was that God is love. That’s how 
I was raised. And as a gay boy in Mississippi, 
that is a wonderful message.” 

Everyone in Burl’s household ƒiattended 
church on Sunday, every Sunday. If you had 
time to stay out late the Saturday before, 
Burl’s mother would admonish, you have 
time to go to church in the morning. I would 
expect such a stern mandate to push a 
child away from religion, but Burl has been 
intensely spiritual his entire life. In college, 
he converted to Episcopalianism, the faith 
in which his father was raised. From an early 
age, church was his refuge, and he knew that 
he would devote his life to religious service.

“I believed I had a call,” Burl says. But 
he could not simply decide to become a 
priest; he also faced the task of proving to a 
slew of church leaders that God had chosen 
him. At any point in the long path towards 
priesthood, any Episcopalian official could 
stop the process, for any reason.

“It’s probably a medieval construct,” 
Burl admits. “It has become a place for the 
exercise of power for persons that might 
not feel they have power in other places.”

In 1995, he took the first step toward 
ordination by applying to seminary, and 
needed the official endorsement of his 
bishop, the elected head of the Episcopalian 
church in Mississippi. In New Jersey that 
same year, a bishop had ordained an openly 
gay man and been put on trial for heresy by 
the Episcopalian Church. If he was acquitted, 
it could be very good news for Burl, the 
Mississippi bishop said. But until then, he 
was simply unwilling to give Burl his support. 
Natchez may have been unusually liberal, 
but the state was still highly conservative. 
So Burl enrolled at Yale Divinity School 
(YDS), the only seminary in the United States 
that did not require the official support of a 
bishop for matriculation. He hoped to return 
to Mississippi and complete the ordination 
process after the trial concluded. 

At YDS, Burl found that the combination 
of his sexuality and his Southern background 
made him an object of fascination. 

“They were like ‘Whoa—you’re gay? 
And you’re from Mississippi? And you’re 
Christian? How did you survive?’” Burl says. 
“I actually had people ask me if I’d received 
electroshock treatment.”

His classmates eventually got to know 
him better and, like at my high school, 


**Title: The Long Road to Ordination**
**Author: Ashley Dalton**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
22
the new journal
ended up respecting him. They elected him 
as student body president in his second 
year. 
Yet 
a 
small 
group 
of 
Christian 
fundamentalists—some of his own YDS 
classmates—regularly spoke out against 
homosexuality, calling it a sin and even 
inviting an anti-gay speaker to lecture in the 
Divinity School’s quadrangle. 
“I remember being prayed over by a 
student,” Burl tells me. “She asked if I would 
see the light.”
Burl holds that in the Old Testament, 
even in the Ten Commandments, “there 
are prohibitions against sexual expression. 
But there are never prohibitions against 
love 
or 
commitment.” 
And prohibitions against 
homosexuality, he points 
out, 
come 
alongside 
prohibitions 
against 
eating 
shrimp, 
getting 
a tattoo, and wearing 
clothes of mixed wool and 
linen fibers.
If someone tries to use one of the Old 
Testament passages against him, Burl says, 
he asks them if they are wearing polyester. 
And if they are, “I remind them that they 
should be stoned. And then we discuss the 
absurdity of what they just said. Maybe over 
a nice shrimp dinner.”
He hoped the Mississippi bishop would 
see the issue similarly and recommend him 
following his graduation in 1998. By then, 
the New Jersey bishop had been acquitted; 
the court had ruled that nothing in the 
core doctrine of Episcopalianism barred 
the Church from ordaining a gay or lesbian 
priest. 
Yet when Burl went back to Mississippi, 
the Jackson bishop told him that ordaining a 
gay priest, even then, would be tantamount 
to political suicide in his current position—
one for which he had been elected by a 
largely anti-gay state.
“You’d make a damn fine priest,” he 
remembers the bishop telling him, “but I’m 
not gonna touch you with a ten-foot pole.”
When Burl reflects on that second formal 
reflection, he says, “I felt like I had been let 
down by my own people. I was bitter at the 
church as much as I was bitter at my home 
state.”
But Burl still believed he had a calling, 
and he certainly hadn’t given up on God. He 
moved to Atlanta. There, unlike in Mississippi, 
the bishop allowed gay and lesbian members 
of the Church to be ordained as long as they 
did not have a same-sex partner. 
For a year, Burl hid his sexuality for the 
first time in his life, and never talked about 
his partner, John. It was the first time in his 
life he was forced to be secretive, and it was 
nothing short of psychological torture, he 
says. 
“That was the most wretched and 
damaging year I have ever 
had. It was so incredibly 
cruel. And in the middle of 
it, my partner left me and 
I couldn’t speak about it.” 
Georgia’s 
rejection 
came insidiously and from 
behind closed doors. In the 
end, the church officially 
denied him the position on the grounds 
that he was “arrogant” and “lacked pastoral 
sensibilities.” But at a cocktail party a short 
time later, Burl’s friend heard a different 
reason: “Oh, you know,” a member of the 
Atlanta Ordination Committee reportedly 
said over his drink. “Burl’s just too gay.”
Burl finally gave up. He moved to 
Washington, D.C. He worked at a wine shop 
and a stationery store for a year. He met Bob. 
The ordination process was no longer at the 
front of his mind. After all these setbacks 
and rejections, you might expect some crisis 
of faith, or at least some disillusionment with 
the Episcopalian Church. Yet the Church 
continued to be a home to him.
“That’s the odd thing about me,” Burl 
explains. “I’ve never felt abandoned by God. 
I very often would ask God, ‘Why?’ But, if 
anything, I always found peace and solace 
in my relationship with God.”
Despite the years of hopes followed by 
disappointments, Burl realized that he still 
wanted to be a priest. He just didn’t want 
to go through the ordination process again, 
“I’ve never felt abandoned 
by God. I very often would 
ask God.”


23
september 2013
and he never imagined that he would return 
to Atlanta. Burl says, in retrospect, that he 
was running from God’s call.
After six years in D.C. and one in New 
Orleans, he received some unexpected 
news. The Lovett School, in Atlanta, was 
offering him a job. He had good reason to 
believe it was still impossible to become a 
priest there, but before declining the job, 
he decided to check. During his time away, 
the Episcopalian Diocese of Georgia had 
elected a new leader.
Burl decided to pay the new bishop and 
got on a plane to Atlanta. “I said, look, here’s 
the deal. I have been offered a job here, and 
I want to go through the ordination process. 
But I’m openly gay, I’m not making any 
apologies for it, and I have a partner.”
The bishop’s response: “So when are 
you moving?”
Burl was taken aback, and skeptical. 
“I had learned not to trust men in purple 
shirts,” he admits. Despite his mistrust of 
church leadership, he took the new job 
because he felt it was God’s will. He moved 
to Atlanta with Bob, and became my high 
school English teacher.
He was ordained as a deacon in 2011, 
two years later. In 2013, he was ordained 
as a priest. Even after the bishop placed 
his hands on Burl’s head, officially marking 
him a priest in the Episcopalian Church, 
Burl remembers thinking: “Did that really 
happen?” 
Sitting on his porch, I think: surely the 
story can’t end that easily. I feel like one of 
the students at YDS, wondering how Burl has 
survived as a gay priest in the South. But I 
ask him anyway. People in the congregation 
must approach him to argue, to pray for and 
over him?
Burl admits that he has encountered 
quiet resistance. The committee of his local 
parish didn’t come to his ordination, nor 
did they congratulate him. But Burl also 
has other stories. Just this past June, Burl 
says, he was in the lobby of an Episcopalian 
church in Charleston, wearing the collar that 
marks his priesthood, when he happened 
to mention Bob in conversation. A middle-
aged woman in a smart summer top, along 
with her seersucker-suited husband, came 
up to him and said, “I’m sorry, did you 
just say husband?” Burl responded yes, of 
course. Tears appeared in her eyes, and she 
hugged Burl’s neck. “Thank God,” she said. 
“My son is gay. And I needed to hear that.”
After twenty years of church resistance, 
it looks like the South is ready for a priest 
like Burl. “It’s like, what’s the big hairy deal?” 
Burl says, thinking back on all the years he 
spent in the ordination process. “If people 
are so insecure about sexuality and the 
church, then they need to go do their own 
work. Because God has already done his.” 
In Burl’s New Testament class back in high 
school, I didn’t learn what God, Christianity, 
or the Church meant to him, personally. 
Now, hearing the saga of the path to his 
ordination, I have a fuller understanding of 
Burl’s theology, the set of beliefs tying him 
to the institution that nearly destroyed him. 
He tells me that he fundamentally believes 
that, “God is grieved by the faults and 
delineations of human constructs. He only 
desires the happiness of people.”
We’ve been sitting on the porch for two 
hours now, so I finally take him up on that 
lemonade. The rain still hasn’t come. 
Ashley Dalton is a staff writer for The New 
Journal.


**Title: All in a Life’s Work**
**Author: Arielle Stambler**
**Page number(s): 24**

24
All 
in a 
Life’s 
Work
By Arielle Stambler
A new initiative addresses the needs of the 
long-term unemployed. 
feature
Maya Binyam



**Title:  The Long-Term Unemployed**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
september 2013
25
B
ob 
Greeney 
steeled 
himself 
and 
stepped into the big red suit for a kids’ 
Christmas party in December 2010. 
Greeney, a 55-year-old Stamford native, 
had been unemployed for a year and a half 
and was doing anything he could to get by: 
delivering flowers, holding up yardsticks 
at high school football games, and dealing 
cards at casino parties.

Before his unemployment, Greeney says, 
he could never have imagined such depths of 
desperation. For twenty-nine years, he had 
worked as a sports writer, with newspapers 
across the Midwest and East Coast carrying 
his stories. It had been his dream career 
ever since his college days, 
when he had broadcast 
Indiana State University’s 
basketball 
games 
over 
the campus radio. When, 
in 2009, the Stamford 
Advocate cut Greeney and 
two other sports writers 
from its staff, he saw a 
chance to reinvent himself. 
Thinking that his years 
of journalism experience 
offered transferrable skills—“I had a great 
work ethic and reputation, I could deal with 
deadlines, and I could write”—he applied 
to job openings in corporate writing and 
copy editing. Though he was once one of 
two final candidates for a United Healthcare 
writing position, he had little success.

Six months after the Santa gig, Greeney 
became a 99er. Unable to find a full-time 
job, he had used up the ninety-nine weeks 
of unemployment benefits then offered to 
him by the state of Connecticut.

Greeney is not alone. Although federal 
and state legislatures have extended the 
length of unemployment benefits multiple 
times, many find themselves in the same 
position—unable to secure work before the 
money runs out, even as the economy shows 
strong signs of recovery. At least five million 
people in the United States have been out of 
work for over six months and are therefore 
considered long-term unemployed.

Yet their voices often go unheard in 
the ongoing national conversation about 
employment. While government officials 
and talking heads pick over the monthly 
reports detailing the numbers of jobs added 
to the economy, far less attention is paid 
to an ongoing crisis which has potentially 
more dire consequences: the dramatic rise 
of long-term unemployment. According to 
the Department of Labor, the percentage of 
unemployed who had been out of work for 
fifty-two weeks or longer jumped from 5.8 
percent to 29.2 percent in the last decade. 
Re-define “long-term” as being out of work 
for twenty-seven weeks or 
longer, and that number 
rises to 41.4 percent in 
2012, according to the 
National Employment Law 
Project. But regardless of 
how they are counted, it 
is becoming conceivable, 
even likely, that the long-
term 
unemployed 
will 
become the permanently 
unemployed.

Two years after being laid off, Greeney 
learned about Platform to Employment 
(P2E), a new jobs initiative based in 
Bridgeport. P2E offers five weeks of 
career coaching, social media training, and 
confidence-building workshops, followed 
by an eight-week paid work experience, 
which, ideally, leads to a full-time position. 
He enrolled in P2E in August 2011 as a 
member of its first graduating class.

Some local resources had previously 
existed 
for 
those 
seeking 
work. 
The 
WorkPlace, the nonprofit that designed 
and administered P2E, operates a system 
of career centers throughout southwestern 
Connecticut. Providing job listings, training 
referrals, 
career 
counseling, 
the 
“If you’re gonna be Santa, Bob, be 
the best damn Santa you can be.”
At least five million 
people in the United 
States have been out of 
work for over six months.
Opposite: Bob Greeney had worked as a sports writer for twenty-nine years before he
became one of the long-term unemployed.


---

26
the new journal
WorkPlace seeks to be a resource for 
populations 
who 
have 
an 
especially 
challenging 
time 
finding 
employment, 
including veterans, the prison re-entry 
population, 
dislocated 
workers, 
disabled 
workers. 
President 
CEO 
Joseph Carbone founded P2E to address 
the distinct and urgent needs of the long-
term unemployed.

In 2010, the U.S. Department of Labor 
estimated people unemployed for twenty-
seven weeks or more only had a 10 
percent chance of finding stable work in a 
subsequent month. Against these odds, P2E 
presents a remarkable success rate: since 
its founding in May 2011, 69 percent of its 
graduates have secured full-time work. To 
improve its participants’ prospects, P2E 
tackles the emotional turbulence of long-
term unemployment, then works to make its 
participants more attractive to employers. 
More importantly, the program works to 
make the long-term unemployed visible 
again.

Though Greeney’s story mirrors the 
plight of millions of other Americans, he and 
his fellow members of the pilot program were 
chosen carefully. To find its first one hundred 
participants, 
WorkPlace 
contacted 
the last 1,400 people who, according to 
the Connecticut Department of Labor, 
had run out of unemployment benefits. 
The selection process included an online 
application and an interview, ultimately 
netting a diverse sample of Connecticut’s 
long-term unemployed: former investment 
bankers and factory workers, people with 
master’s degrees and people with only high 
school diplomas. But while The WorkPlace 
wanted to avoid cherry-picking candidates, 
they still selected for evidence of active 
job searching and readiness to re-enter the 
workforce.

Carbone sums up the criteria like this: 
“We were looking for people who were 
looking for a challenge. We don’t want 
people who are proving that there’s no way 
of saving them.”

Many are in desperate need of a 
lifeline—and through no fault of their own, 
economists say. Even as the stock market 
has risen and overall unemployment has 
fallen in recent years, one section of the 
labor market has struggled even to get their 
resumes seen: the long-term unemployed. 
A recent study showed that more-qualified 
applicants who had been out of work for at 
Provided by P2E
Participants in Platform to Employment were chosen carefully by the WorkPlace.



27
least six months got fewer callbacks from 
employers than less qualified applicants 
who had been out of work for less time. 
Some employers explicitly exclude job 
applicants based on the duration of their 
unemployment, a practice that is both 
widespread and legal. What results is a 
vicious cycle in which the people most 
desperate for a job are effectively barred 
from the workforce. Economists warn 
that the long-term unemployed may soon 
become unemployable.

P2E seeks to intervene in this cycle in two 
ways. The first phase, designed to address 
the debilitating frustration that many of the 
long-term unemployed experience, consists 
of approximately one hundred hours of 
training sessions that Carbone hopes will 
build participants’ self-confidence. Seventy 
percent of the class sessions are devoted 
to the “psychology of careering,” a process 
of guided self-reflection to better the job 
search . The rest covers the basics of getting 
a job: interviewing, resume and cover letter 
writing, social media, dressing for work, 
and telephone etiquette. The psychology 
of careering revs people up to fully take 
advantage 
of 
networking 
skills 
that are, in some ways, the most central 
component of the class.

The second phase of the program is 
called a “paid work experience,” and pairs a 
graduate with a business for an eight-week 
trial period. This time provides participants 
with an opportunity to prove to themselves 
and to employers that they can work again. 
P2E pays the first four weeks’ wages to 
make the arrangement more appealing to 
employers. Eighty-seven percent of P2E 
graduates are hired by their employer at the 
end of eight weeks.

Part of the training program directly 
coaches participants to reclaim control of 
their lives. After months of job-searching 
at home, they get back on a schedule: they 
wake up in the morning, dress in professional 
attire, and come to class for six hours a day, 
four days a week.

Carbone’s 
own 
experience 
with 
unemployment 
inspired 
program’s 
philosophy. For eight and a half months 
in 1990, Carbone struggled to find work, 
spending his afternoons watching soap 
operas. He drove to grocery stores twenty 
miles away to avoid seeing people he 
knew and having to explain why he wasn’t 
working.

Six months into his unemployment, he 
was up for a second job interview. On his 
way to the interview, his wife called him with 
a message he had missed: the interview was 
cancelled because the job had been filled. 
Carbone barely cared. He said he looked 
at his watch and thought to himself that, 
if he hurried home, he could make General 
Hospital at 3 p.m. 

In retrospect, Carbone is horrified by 
the complacency he once felt about his own 
joblessness, but he says that he would not 
understand the emotional strain of long-term 
unemployment if he hadn’t experienced it 
himself. These days, Carbone is the picture 
of career success, in his suits with collared 
shirts buttoned up to the neck. But when 
he starts talking about the fate of the long-
term unemployed, his composure cracks. 
His voice trembles, his forehead wrinkles, 
and the skin around his eyes reddens. What 
upsets Carbone most is that the 99ers 
come to believe something is wrong with 
them, when even economists struggle to 
describe why employers have marked them 
unworthy of a second chance. Carbone 
barely contains his tears, his language 
taking a suddenly aggressive turn as he 
compares the situation to untreated cancer, 
the disease worsening and spreading.

“We are complicit in sacrificing [the long-
term unemployed] in the transition from the 
pre- to the post-recession economy,” he 
says. 

Helen McKee feared she was headed 
down that path. In October 2009, she 
was laid off by the Bridgeport distributor 
of jewelry and dental supplies where she 
had worked as an accountant for thirteen 
years. A single mother of two teenagers, 
she survived on unemployment benefits 
and the little cash she made doing work 
for friends—babysitting, cleaning houses, 
washing windows, and making sales calls 



**Title: The Long Road Back to Work**
**Author: Arielle Stambler**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
28
the new journal
from home. 
The layoff, she says, shoved her from 
the lower-middle class to the lower class. 
Eventually, her children needed scholarships 
from their high school to continue playing 
varsity sports. Her son couldn’t get his 
driver’s license because she couldn’t afford 
the lessons. The family received subsidized 
heating. They gave up cable TV, vacations, 
cell phones—and then, fresh meat, fruits, 
and vegetables. She started going to food 
banks. 

McKee estimates that she applied to 
over fifty jobs, some below her skill level 
and some in areas so unsafe that her friends 
prayed she wouldn’t get them. She was 
called for only two in-person interviews, 
and never got a job offer. McKee suspects 
that she was discriminated against because 
of her age and unemployment. She felt 
defeated.
“The way I thought about myself was 
that I couldn’t do anything right,” McKee 
says. “You’re out that long, there’s no way 
to keep up how you feel.”
Then McKee read an article about 
Platform to Employment and, willing to try 
anything, filled out an application. According 
to McKee, she was the last person to be 
accepted to the class that began in October 
2011. She never missed a single training 
session. 

One goal of P2E training is to teach 
participants to think of themselves as 
brands, in order to better promote their 
unique set of skills and abilities. To that 
end, they  complete activities such as the 
“Fruit Tree Exercise.” Presented with a 
blank picture of a fruit tree, they write their 
skills on the fruits and their values on the 
leaves. Such exercises may seem childish, 
but they are an intentionally simple part of 
the program’s structured environment for 
productive self-examination. 

The curriculum, McKee says, taught her 
that to get a job, “You had to shine brighter. 
You had to have six points on your star 
rather than five.”
Right after completing the first part of the 
program, McKee went on four interviews for 
the Bridgeport Regional Business Council. 
They hired her before the eight-week work 
period even started. She worked as director 
of finance part-time for ten months and was 
Provided by P2E
Participants in P2E training sit in a class designed to re-instill a sense of confidence.


---

29
september 2013
“We were looking for 
people who were looking 
for a challenge. We don’t 
want people who are 
proving that there’s no 
way of saving them.”
hired full-time in September 2012. 
“I went from feeling like a minus 10 to, 
like, an 80,” she said. “My old personality 
has come out, and it’s sharper because I’m 
working again.”
McKee has a renewed sense of personal 
satisfaction, but says her work pays barely 
enough to survive. She still lives in housing 
with no cable and no long-distance phone. 
Her son left for the Marines in August, so 
the child-support payments she had been 
relying on stopped coming. To compensate, 
she is trying to get a mortgage modification. 
She expects that she will never be able to 
retire. 

That’s not unusual for workers who lost 
their jobs during the recession. Many jobs 
regained during the recovery have been low 
wage. A 2012 study by the 
National Employment Law 
Project found that lower-
wage occupations made 
up 21 percent of recession 
losses, but 58 percent of 
recent employment gains, 
creating an unbalanced 
recovery that researchers 
warn 
will 
cement 
America’s long-term rise 
in inequality. Even once 
they 
are 
re-employed, 
McKee and millions like her continue to 
struggle.
Worse yet, some P2E graduates do 
not find job placements at all. At seventy 
years old, Catherine Sidor has a lifetime of 
experience bringing tourists to Connecticut 
and 
New 
York. 
The 
Fairfield 
County 
Convention and Visitors’ Bureau, where she 
was executive director, was shut down in 
2009, and she attended P2E thinking she 
would easily secure a job shortly thereafter. 
But even though she worked with a P2E job 
counselor for several months, she remains 
unemployed.
Sidor does not blame Platform to 
Employment for not getting her a job. They 
referred her to a position in New Haven 
for which she had two interviews, but 
didn’t get the job. Offered an interview for 
another position in Newtown, she turned it 
down to the prohibitively long commute. 
According to Sidor, the real issue was that 
Connecticut’s economy was just too bleak. 
“I’m not blaming them for not having 
enough employer commitments,” she said. 
“Connecticut doesn’t have any openings. 
They were being idealistic.”
Yet Sidor she holds that training was 
valuable. P2E’s insistence upon personal 
reflection helps its cohorts to become very 
close, very fast. Seeing that their classmates 
face the same struggles, participants feel 
less alone.
“People seemed to benefit from the 
community and the connection because they 
had been so isolated,” says Nancy Legow, a 
behavioral health consultant who counseled 
P2E participants during 
and after their training. “It 
was good [for them] to be 
part of a group, to have 
somewhere to go, to not 
feel so alone.”
Sidor 
valued 
that 
camaraderie. She has kept 
in contact with McKee 
since the end of the class 
almost two years ago. 
continues 
to 
send in job applications. 
In February 2012, P2E was featured on 
CBS’s 60 Minutes. After the piece aired, the 
WorkPlace was flooded with requests from 
other organizations coordinating workplace 
development to start programs around the 
country, and now P2E is expanding to ten 
cities. The programs in Cincinnati and Dallas 
have seen job placement rates as high 
as seventy-one and eighty-one percent, 
respectively.

ten-city 
rollout 
is 
a 
national 
research experiment funded by Wal-Mart, 
AARP, and Citi Community Development, 
part of CitiGroup, to show that P2E can be 
successfully replicated around the country. 
To keep the experiment as controlled as 
possible, The WorkPlace is selecting the 
participants for each city’s program.



30
program reach even farther. He wants 
Platform to Employment to become the 
centerpiece of a national discussion about 
why the long-term unemployed remain 
unemployed. In the last six months, Carbone 
says he has been to the White House, 
testified before congressional committees, 
and spoken to Democratic Senators, the 
National 
Governors’ 
Association, 
the 
Clinton Global Initiative and local chambers 
of commerce about the plight of the long-
term unemployed.
He says that people are finally beginning 
to listen. “No one thought it was important 
enough to even think about them before,” he 
said. “It’s beginning now to surface. Really, 
the nation is beginning to pay attention to 
this.”
During the 2013 legislative session, 
nine states have introduced bills that 
would prohibit discrimination against the 
unemployed. New Jersey, Oregon, and the 
District of Columbia already have similar laws 
on the books. Connecticut Congresswoman 
Rosa DeLauro sponsored legislation last year 
that would have prohibited such practices 
nationwide, but House Republicans decided 
not to bring the bill up for a vote.
If there is any respect in which P2E is 
a real, replicable solution to long-term 
unemployment, it is its ability to empower 
its graduates to change the unemployment 
landscape themselves. Each graduate who 
gets a job and performs that job well changes 
the opinion of one more employer about the 
skills of the long-term unemployed.
Employers’ responses have been fairly 
positive. A survey conducted by the Harvard 
Business 
School 
Club 
of 
Connecticut 
Community Partners surveyed employers 
after they had worked with P2E graduates 
for two months. On average, the employers 
cited most that they liked the employee’s 
“positive outlook,” “realistic expectations,” 
and “eagerness to work.” Eighty-eight 
percent of the respondents said they would 
consider hiring another P2E participant in 
the future.
Bob Greeney has turned in his Santa suit 
for a Metro North uniform. He sells tickets at 
the Stamford Metro-North Railroad Station 
from 6 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. five days a week, full-
time. He has been with the MTA since May 
2012. He enjoys the ten-minute commute to 
work from his Stamford apartment—until 
this past June, he had working much further 
away, at Grand Central Station.
On his one-year anniversary of regaining 
employment, Greeney got a small raise 
and benefits for dental and eye care. He 
now makes $21.33 an hour. Annually, that’s 
a significant pay cut from the $49,000, 
including overtime and holiday pay he 
made during his last year as a sports writer 
at The Stamford Advocate. During what he 
calls the extra “life hours,” whch he saves 
with his shorter commute, Greeney picks up 
odd jobs, like delivering flowers, just as he 
used to.
But even a year later, Greeney is so 
relieved that he’s made it off what he calls 
“Unemployment Island,” that he says he 
can’t complain. 
“I was drifting out at sea, holding onto 
a little plank, keeping my head above the 
water.” he said, “And then the good ship P2E 
came along. Joe Carbone was at the bow of 
the ship with the life preserver. ‘We got you, 
Bob. We’re going to throw this to you.’ I was 
professionally adrift and P2E was there to 
come and save me.”
Many long-term unemployed can’t say 
the same, beaten back by politicians who 
have overlooked them and businesses that 
continually send them to the back of the 
line. P2E has reached out, but it will take a 
lot more to turn the tide.
Arielle Stambler is a senior in Morse 
College.



**Title: Making Believe**
**Author: Aaron Gertler**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
O
ver lunch early in my freshman year, 
my friend Madeleine Witt told me 
she had been at a Yale Students for 
Christ retreat that weekend. I asked her how 
it had gone.
She smiled.
“I had the most intense religious 
experience of my life,” she said. “It 
completely changed my relationship with 
Jesus.”

For the rest of the day, I puzzled over 
those words. I’d thought religion was 
something people only found, or sought 
to deepen, in times of need. Witt was a 
talented artist at a prestigious school, with a 
warm, earthy demeanor and a strong sense 
of humor. She seemed to have her life in 
order. What could Jesus do for Witt that she 
couldn’t do for herself? 

If God has been watching me this whole 
time, I hope He understands that before I 
got to college, I couldn’t help but be cynical 
about the usefulness of any particular faith.
My mother is Unitarian and my father 
Jewish (with an interest in Buddhism). 
I 
grew 
up 
with 
evangelical 
Christian 
neighbors. Their son—my best friend at the 
time—once saved me in the name of Christ 
in their basement. We were eight, and we 
had gotten bored with our plastic lightsaber 
duel. After that, I was heaven-bound for 
sure, so I stopped worrying about the hell 
I’d seen in “Tom and Jerry” cartoons, which 
had been the source of a few nightmares. 

My parents sold me on Hebrew school 
by describing it as a set of language classes 
with a party at the end. At nine years old, I 
saw my religious education as just another 
chore. The Torah portion that I read years 
later at my bar mitzvah featured my 
namesake, Aaron, brother of Moses. His 
sons, Nadab and Abihu, get drunk and offer 
the wrong incense to God, who incinerates 
them in response. Aaron doesn’t mourn; to 
do so would be to question God’s judgment. 

During the same few months I spent 
memorizing this passage in the original 
Hebrew, I came across a copy of Richard 
Dawkins’ The God Delusion, which served 
as my first serious exposure to a variety 
of useful concepts: cosmology beyond 
the book of Genesis, morality beyond the 
Ten Commandments, evolution beyond 
Pokémon. Dawkins can be strident at times, 
but I preferred him to God. I’ve been a 
nonbeliever ever since.

But by my second week on campus at 
Yale, religion became unavoidable. My new 
friends included a Catholic who kept her 
favorite Bible quotes on Post-It notes over 
her desk, a vegetarian Hindu who believed 
in karma, and an atheist whose hobby was 
sampling churches and listening without 
retort to believers. On hammocks and 
benches, during long walks and over long 
dinners, I struggled to comprehend the way 
they saw the world.

Witt’s religious awakening—like that of 
many of the converts I talked to—was outside 
my realm of understanding. I wondered 
if it was really a coincidence that her new 
relationship with Jesus began at a retreat 
where she’d begun new relationships with 
a few dozen Christian friends. Why would 
God wait to find her on a dock in the woods 
when she’d been going to church her entire 
life? Though I saw campus conversion as an 
uncommon tangent to college life, I needed 
to figure out how and why it happened—
how Yale, which had intensified my atheism 
by exposing me to neuroscience and secular 
philosophy, had had the opposite effect on 
one of my closest friends.

For many, college is the first time we 
leave home. Religion, and the friends who 
come with it, can be comfortable and solid 
when life seems formless or uncertain. The 
students I met often spoke of a chaotic 
transition to Yale, and of finding peace in 
religious study, or the church choir, or moral 
philosophy with grounding holier than those 
of Aristotle or John Stuart Mill. I wondered 
if Witt, who sings in the Christian a cappella 
group Living Water, might have found similar 
comfort in joining a nonreligious group like 
The New Blue or Something Extra. 

So I started looking for students who 
had undergone religious conversions while 
at Yale. Their stories were diverse, and three 
stood out in particular. An undergrad named 
Kim Fabian was fond of Christianity but 
saw no reason to join the religion, until an 
emotional crisis helped her find Jesus. Bijan 
Aboutorabi went from atheist to Catholic, 
one classic work of theology at a time. And 
Witt, it turns out, walked a long and winding 
road before her evening on the dock. 

At Witt’s twentieth birthday party, I 
asked her whether she could introduce me 
to any friends who had become more deeply 
connected to Christianity while at Yale. She 
pointed to three of the people sitting on her 
couch, including Kim Fabian. While Fabian 
identifies as Christian now, she has doubts 
to overcome. 
“I describe myself as a baby Christian,” 
she explains over dinner. “I’m still figuring a 
lot of stuff out.” 

Her modest self-description marks a 
major shift from the behavior that got she 
kicked out of Sunday school at the age of 
seven. 
“What’s the word for purposefully being 
antagonistic and arguing with people?” 
Fabian asks.
“Contrary?”
“Yeah! And I was a disruption.”

The church asked her parents to 
“reform” her and send her back, but they 
decided that she was fine the way she was. 
After a few churchless years, she began 
attending Unitarian Universalist services, 
which appealed to her spiritual side but left 
her somehow unsatisfied. 
“There was this mentality in the church 
about tolerance, that all religions were 
to be accepted—except for Christianity.” 
Devout Muslims and Jews were welcome; 
while devout Christians weren’t exactly 
unwelcome, 
Fabian 
sensed 
antipathy 
toward the religion from her fellow Unitarian 
Universalists, and from herself. 

Ever the contrarian, she entered a Bible 
study group at her high school, hoping to 
understand and finally dispel her own past 
view of Christianity. At first, the task seemed 
difficult. She met some Christians who used 
religion as a weapon, to chastise or exclude 
the less devout. From what Fabian knew of 
Jesus, this felt like hypocrisy.  

But others in the group managed to 
combine serious religion with kind behavior, 
and soon became some of her best 
friends. As she spent more time with them, 
and began to read more humorous and 
humanizing account of Jesus’ life in a book 
called The Gospel According to Biff, her 
remaining antipathy disappeared. Still, after 
her time with the Unitarian Universalists, 
she felt that all religions held some truth—
why choose between them?

It wasn’t until college that Fabian 



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Elif Erez**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
34
the new journal
returned to Christianity. After a series 
of incidents, in which she says she was 
responsible 
for 
“mean, 
hurtful 
things 
happening to close friends,” she looked for a 
higher pardon. Her friends’ forgiveness was 
not enough to erase what she had done. 
 “I needed salvation. I needed a savior.” 
Fabian has been a Christian ever since. 
Her newfound inner peace is apparent as 
I talk with her in the Buddhist meditation 
room at the base of Harkness Tower. 
She spends a lot of time here. It’s full of 
expensive-looking statues, and part of her 
paid student job is to make sure nobody 
steals them. She lights candles on the altar, 
waves a stick of incense in a complicated 
pattern, sets it down, and bows to a stone 
Buddha. Her hands are clasped; her face, 
expressionless. A few silent moments pass. 
“What was running through your head, 
during that ritual?” I ask later.
“Devotion, I guess.”
“Devotion towards what? God?”
“I hope so! Otherwise, I’m in trouble.” 
She laughs. 
Fabian plans to raise her future kids as 
Christians: “I just want them to know that 
no other person, or thing, is ever going to 
be enough.” 
Bijan Aboutorabi has many questions 
for me. “The greatest overall utility for 
humanity? How do you measure that? 
Where does it come from?”
The basis of my own morality is under 
fire. I can answer this, I think to myself. 
I don’t need a Bible, just a third of Mill’s 
Utilitarianism and a dash of David Hume. I 
should really get started on Reasons and 
Persons, too. 
Aboutorabi is good at engaging with 
uncomfortable questions. What is ethical? 
How do we know? How do we know 
anything, for that matter? Upon his junior-
year conversion to Catholicism, he found 
himself in possession of a complete, rigorous 
set of answers. He is the only convert I met 
who I believe might have chosen the same 
religion had he spent his life in a library, 
without the persuasive influence of a single 
human believer. Aboutorabi’s conversion 
was the work of divine logic.
Though he identified as a “militant 
atheist” in high school, at Yale Aboutorabi 
found himself spending more time with 
Catholic classmates, exploring the roots of 
his own morality. In college, he came face-
to-face with “serious philosophy,” which 
caused quite a few problems: 
“Nothing in materialism seemed to 
explain the existence of qualia,” he says, 
sounding distressed.
In philosophy, “qualia” are instances of 
conscious experience: the taste of cake above 
and beyond the understanding of pastry 
molecules, or the understanding of music as 
more than a collection of sonic frequencies. 


---

Aboutorabi’s concern is common among 
scholars: if we’re just soulless collections 
of atoms, why does conscious experience 
exist? This is an important question, but he 
found no philosophical consensus as to the 
correct response.
Catholic 
philosophy 
offered 
an 
appealing set of answers; religious thinkers 
were bolder in their assertions than most 
modern secular ones. Aboutorabi says he 
read a great deal of C.S. Lewis and G.K. 
Chesterton but still “wasn’t able to flip the 
switch” toward faith. 
On the last day of sophomore year, he 
asked a Catholic friend and convert how 
he’d entered the fold: “He told me he’d felt 
a sudden sense of total, all-encompassing 
love.” 
Though he had then, and has now, 
almost no mystical life, Aboutorabi asked 
another friend what else might dissolve his 
uncertainty. When a response came back, he 
read and reread it until one day he realized 
he was “standing with one foot on either 
side of a ravine, which was growing wider, 
and I had to jump to one side or the other.” 
The choice, he says, was ultimately easy.



And so, without any singular mystical 
experience—no lightning strike or burning 
bush—Aboutorabi became a believer. On 
Easter of last year, he received his first Holy 
Communion and was baptized.
His story leaves me wondering, “So, 
atheism couldn’t answer your questions. 
Aren’t 
there 
questions 
Catholicism 
can’t 
answer?”
“A 
limit 
on 
human 
intellect is very different from 
something 
fundamentally 
unanswerable,” 
Aboutorabi 
replies. He knows there are 
parts of the metaphysical 
world 
he’ll 
never 
fully 
comprehend—the 
Trinity, 
the exact nature of hell—but 
he trusts that the Catholic 
Church has reached the right 
conclusions on all important spiritual matters. 
After all, they’ve been discussing those questions 
for the past two millennia. 



His 
understanding 
of 
Christian 
philosophy makes my moral foundations 
begin to feel like bamboo poles to his 
concrete pillars: flexible enough to tolerate 
some stress, but not much to look at, and 
skinny enough that they might buckle under 
the weight of a difficult choice. As we part, 
he calls my attention to “the unshakeable 
conviction of the Apostles that they had seen 
Jesus rise from the dead.” He is convinced 
he’s seen the same light as those earliest of 
Christian converts—and the experience has 
left him, as far as I can tell, unshakeable.
I knew before our interview that Witt 
had been religious before Yale, but I was 
looking for specifics about the conversion. 
“So, on a scale of one to ten, you went 
from, like… a four to a nine?”
“You can’t measure it on a scale like 
that!” she protests. We’re not speaking the 
same language, but if I listen hard enough, 
I might begin to understand what she calls 
“the most precious story in my life.” 



The first church Witt attended was tiny 
and rural, but her family moved while she was 
in middle school, and the new congregation 
had a few more kids her age. She considered 
herself faithful, but describes that faith as 
misdirected.
“I wore a WWJD bracelet, because 
that was what I thought Christians were 
supposed to do. But I didn’t understand 
what it meant,” Witt says. “What would 
Jesus do in this situation? 
He’d do a miracle! How 
does that help me?” 
In high school, Witt 
saw 
God 
as 
another 
authority figure she had 
to please, alongside her 
parents 
and 
teachers. 
With enough good deeds 
and pure thoughts, she’d 
earn God’s love and be 
a “good Christian.” She 
goes on to explain how 
wrong 
she 
was, 
that 
Christianity is unique, in that while “God 
asks everything of you,” God also knows 
that we are incapable of becoming worthy 
of his company through human effort alone. 



I ask Witt what led her to see things 
in this new light. Soon after she entered 
Yale, Witt explains, she met students unlike 
anyone she had encountered at home. 
“They were so committed to following 
Christ that they talked about Jesus like 
he was someone they knew,” she says, 
“Someone they could have an intimate 
relationship with. And this was something I 
was very curious about.”
At that first retreat, Witt heard a speaker 
discuss grace: the idea that Christ’s sacrifice 
was a gift from God to all those who would 
accept it and that “earning one’s way” to 
salvation wasn’t necessary, or even possible. 
The words resonated, perfectly contrasting 
old beliefs. 
“At the end of his talk, he said, ‘if you 
would like to accept this relationship with 
Christ, stand up!’ And I stood up.” She wasn’t 
the only one.
But it turns out I was wrong in thinking 
Witt found God in the woods: “He was 
equally with me in my childhood church. It’s 
just that my heart was changed, my eyes 
were opened.” Now, she thinks she could 
return to that church—or anywhere else in 
the world—and be as close to God as she 
was while on the dock. Yale was the place 
where she managed to fill what she calls 
the “God-shaped hole” in her heart, but she 
doesn’t expect that it will ever be empty 
again. 



I tell her that my heart feels, and has 
always felt, whole. She asks where I find 
happiness, if I don’t have God as an ultimate 
source of joy and meaning. “Any time spent 
with my girlfriend,” I tell her. “Optimism for 
the future. Interesting conversations with 
friends and strangers. The moment when 
a great piece of dance music hits its peak, 
which is probably the closest I come to how 
you felt in that room.” I pause. “Good food. 
Good books. Good company.” I look at her. 
“I think I have everything I need.” 
She nods, but I’m not sure she believes 
me. I’m not sure I believe me. I tried talking 
to God when I was young and like millions 
of others, I asked for a sign. When I didn’t 
receive it, and some of them did, I thought 
I might have missed something. Was it 
possible that I was doing something wrong?
Even after the interviews, I’m still thinking 
about Fabian’s forgiveness, Aboutorabi’s 
moral pillars, Witt’s God-shaped hole. 
I haven’t been brought to God, but I’m 
acutely conscious that the age of nineteen 
is no time to decide I understand morality. 
There are limits to my ongoing search: I am 
a scientist, I’ve seen brain scans of Buddhist 
monks, I’ve studied the neurological basis 
of near-death experience. Using terms like 
“soul” and “grace” won’t help me advance 
in my field. But even if Christian logic 
does not persuade me, that’s no excuse to 
assume that converts are the ones wearing 
ideological blinders.
I ask most of my sources what they think 
it means for someone to seek but not find. 



35
september 2013
Elif Erez
“Without Jesus,” Fabian said at the event of her baptism, “nothing else was enough.”



36
Members of the congregation follow projected lyrics as they sing along to contemporary 
Christian rock. 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Aaron Gertler**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
september 2013
37
Those who heard God’s voice—Witt, Fabian, 
a few others—tell me not to give up, that if I 
remain open to possibility, I might well hear 
something. 

I’m standing in Toad’s Place on Sunday 
morning to watch Kim Fabian’s baptism. The 
church band plays catchy, original Christian 
rock; Witt, sitting on the bar beside me, 
sings along. When the music stops, the lead 
singer—Pastor Justin Kendrick—delivers a 
moving sermon on the meaning of baptism.

Music swells again as the first worshipper 
steps forward for a pre-baptism interview 
with Pastor Justin. Witt slides off the bar 
and rushes away toward him, saying, “I’ve 
got to be baptized. Bye!” She had just come 
intending to watch her friend, but the sense 
of religious urgency in the room drew her in, 
and even I’m beginning to feel it; my heart 
is racing.

Fabian takes a microphone and relates 
her story to the congregation: “I just couldn’t 
do it by myself. Without Jesus, nothing else 
was enough.” She steps off the stage, and 
is dipped into a blue plastic tub. Toad’s 
echoes with cheering and applause. Every 
member of the congregation stretches a 
hand in Fabian’s direction. She holds hers 
out to heaven.

Witt is next on stage. “I don’t know how 
to tell this story,” she tells Pastor Justin. 
“Words are just completely insufficient to 
describe the experience.” 

For now, words are all I’ve got. 
Aaron Gertler is a junior in Timothy Dwight 
College.


**Title: From the NSA, With Love**
**Author: Jesse Schreck**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

38
the new journal
Hello American #1,341,682,
You may not know me, but I know all 
about you. I’m a data collector for the Na­
tional Security Administration. But don’t 
worry, I’m not here to defend our domes­
tic surveillance program or deny its scope. 
I’ll be the first to admit that we have in­
deed been spying on you. You, personally. 
We have mined your phone records, your 
Google searches, and your direct messages 
on Twitter. We know your favorite YouTube 
videos, and we know which Buzzfeed ar­
ticles you sent around the office with cap­
tions like “LOL SO TRUE.” We have neatly 
collated lists of your most-visited and your 
privately-viewed. We even recorded your 
Bing activity. Unethical? Probably, but I pre­
fer to leave that question to the higher pow­
ers. What I’m here to do is save you from 
yourself.

I’ll start at the beginning. Getting the 
position was thrilling. I mean, data collector! 
I spent most of my time eating kettle corn 
while looking up old acquaintances from 
high school. Sheldon Jackson, for example, 
has gone from being the popular quarter­
back to a sad, sad man whose search his­
tory includes “regrow hair cheap” and “hu­
man hug feeling.” Rita Stinson, salutatorian, 
is now a clean-cut vice president at JPMor­
gan, but her SecondLife avatar has spiked 
purple hair and is a steampunk anarchist 
named “Spleen.” Jenny Grafton seems hap­
pily married, not that I care. Nine of my for­
mer classmates are divorced, three more 
are closeted, and nearly half of them have 
ordered self-help books from Amazon.

In addition to my private snooping, the 
job required me to trek through a never-
ending wasteland of Facebook profiles. It 
seems to me like the sadder people are in 
their real lives, the more they pretend to be 
happy online. My old middle school math 
teacher, for example, is severely in debt—
this I learned from her email correspondence 
with a loan shark named Stinky Pat—but her 
latest status reads, “just bought a BRAND-
NEW bike (talk about a SPLURGE?!) and i 
couldn’t be happier!!!” Really, Ms. Steven­
son? You have twice proposed marriage to 
Stinky Pat. Yesterday you spent six hours 
on Chatroulette, and for two of those hours 
you were the only user who wasn’t just a pe­
nis. Plus, that’s not even your bike in the pic­
ture! It’s your nephew’s. And Mr. Katchmore, 
shame on you for commenting, “can’t wait 
to see it when me + astrid are back from eu­
rope!” You wrote that from your kitchen in 
Hoboken, and Astrid is in a coma—or didn’t 
they teach you not to lie when you became 
a history teacher?

Celebrities, I learned, are especially 
prone to misrepresenting themselves over 
social media. Did you know that George 
Clooney has his hair professionally grayed? 
Or that Lady Gaga spends almost 90 per­
cent of her time in sweatpants stained with 
the tears of oppressed sexual minorities? 
Justin Bieber is actually bald, and Nicki Minaj 
is a five-foot-three Jewish ex-con named 
Moe. All these people, the ones you spend 
so much time watching on television and 
following on Twitter, you probably wouldn’t 
recognize any of them in real life. Example: 
see that pig-tailed girl picking her nose over 
there? That’s Miley Cyrus.

I mentioned that we have neatly collated 
lists of everyone’s most-visited and private­
ly-viewed web pages, and I wasn’t kidding: 
the lists are in three-inch blue binders, along 
with printouts of Google search histories 
and recent text exchanges. I read your sis­
ter’s file earlier today, and there’s some juicy 
stuff in there. (You should ask her: “Elā mīru 
telugu māṭlāḍaṭamu nērcukōlēdu?” That’s 
Telugu for, why did you learn to speak Telu­
gu?) And currently sitting on my desk, this 
moment, as I’m writing this, right in front of 
me? Your binder—your personal NSA life-
file. If I open it, I’ll learn all those small dark 
secret things you’ve tried to hide from ev­
eryone.

But why do you so desperately want 
to hide? When you’re hiding, you’re alone. 
Even when you’re in public, even when 
you’re singing “Superbass” to a sold-out 
arena—because Nicki might look great, but 
Moe is still there, plugging away under a pile 
of fake hair and makeup and clip-on nails, 
and nobody will talk to him about the aes­
thetic purity of Shabbat.

When you’re alone like that, you become 
lonely, and that’s when you order self-help 
books from Amazon and try to elope with 
Stinky Pat and lie about how your wife isn’t 
actually in a coma. You’ll say anything to 
hide your loneliness from others. Eventually, 
you’ll become hidden even from yourself, 
and not even the NSA will be able to find 
you. Which is saying something, because, as 
I mentioned earlier, we have a lot of data.

	
Cheers,
	
	
Data Collector #204
Devon Geyelin
39


**Title: Yale University Judaic Studies–Fall 2013 Course Offerings**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
YALE UNIVERSITY


JUDAIC STUDIES–FALL 2013 Course Offerings 
CORE COURSES 

JDST 200ag/HIST219ag/ER&M 219a/ MMES 149a/RLST 148ag, History of the Jews and Their Diasporas to 
Early Modern Times. Ivan Marcus. T Th 11.35-12.50 

BIBLE 
JDST 110a/RLST 145a/HUMS 349a, The Bible. Christine Hayes. M W 11.35-12.50 

CLASSICAL PERIOD 
 JDST 016/RLST 014, Authorship, Originality, and Forgery, Hindy Najman.  M W 9.00-10.15 

JDST 237ag/RLST 322ag Translating the Sacred. Hindy Najman & Kirk Wetters. M 1.30-3.20 

JDST 239ag/RLST 255ag, Paths of Purity in Ancient Judaism. Yishai Kiel. M 3.30-5.20 

JDST 256a/RLST400a, The Dead Sea Scrolls and the History of Ancient Judaism: The Damascus 
Document. Steven Fraade. W 9.25-11.15 

MEDIEVAL AND EARLY MODERN PERIODS 
JDST 270ag/HIST 232j/HUMS 392/RLST 201a, Medieval Jews, Christians, and Muslims Imagining Each 
Other. Ivan Marcus T 1:30–3:20 

JDST 272ag/PHIL 220a, Medieval Philosophy, Paul Franks & Stephen Ogden M W 1.00-2.15 

JDST 273ag /NELC 267g/RLST 221g, Jewish Sectarianism in the Middle Ages, Eve Krakowski T 9.25-11.15 

JDST 335ag/PHIL 274a, Concepts of God in Jewish Philosophy. Gabriel Citron. T Th 2.30-3.45   

MODERN PERIOD 
JDST 331ag/MMES 351a/RLST 331ag, Jewish Law in the State of Israel. Yuval Sinai. M W 2.30-3.45 

JDST 332a/RLST 193a, Zionism. Elli Stern. MW 1.00-2.15, 1 HTBA 

JDST 333ag/HIST 229ag, Tradition in Crisis: A History of Orthodox Jewry in Modern Times.  
Michael Silber. T 3.30-5.30   

LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE 
HEBR110g, Elementary Modern Hebrew, Ayala Dvoretzky.  M T W TH F 9:25-10:15/10:30-11:20   

HEBR130g, Intermediate Modern Hebrew, A. Dvoretzky T Th 1-2:15, D. Roginsky M,W 11:35-12:50 

HEBR 160ag/JDST 360a, Hebrew in a Changing World. Dina Roginsky. T Th 1.00-2.15 

JDST 215ag/LING217a, Hebrew and Semitic linguistics, Tamas Biro, T Th 11.35-12.50 

JDST 317ag/CPLT 281ag, Cultural History of Modern Hebrew Poetry. Hannan Hever T 3.30-5.20 

JDST 413ag/NELC 165ag/RLST 411ag, Biblical Qumranic and Targumic Aramaic. Aharon Maman. 
Th 9.25-11.15  

GRADUATE ONLY COURSES 
JDST 691/CPLT691, Hebrew Allegory as Cultural Critique, Hannan Hever.  Th 3.30-5.20 

JDST 739/RLST741, Multilingualism and Translation in Ancient Judaism, Steven Fraade. T 9.25-11.15  

JDST 836/GMAN635, Rosenzweig’s Star of Redemption, Paul North. T 1:30-3:20   
_____________________________________________________________ 

Program in Judaic Studies 
Yale University 
451 College St., Rm. 301 
New Haven, CT 06511 
Tel – (203)432-0843,  Fax – (203)432-4889 
judaicstudies.yale.edu 

Please note that information on courses, including meeting days and times, is subject to revision. 
Students should check the printed YCPS and especially the on-line course information for the fullest 
and most accurate information 

