Publication date: 04/86
Volume 18, Issue 6

**The Disabled at Yale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40-42**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Her knapsack also contains a small tape recorder, a magnifying glass and a mini-telescope.
are in Japan. "In the United States, the attitude is that the individual is most important, whereas in Japan, the em· phasis is placed on society. It is part of the Japanese character that if you deviate from accepted standards, then you are an outcast," Joko said. "I have been told, 'People like you should stay at home.' When I was a little girl in Japan, the other children wouldn't ac· cept me because I was different- because I couldn't speak well and move well, they thought I was stupid." 

Nevertheless, because of the historical isolation of the disabled, most people at Yale know little about their strengths and weaknesses, which often results in discrimination and alienation of the disabled person from the rest of the community. "What's the use of being able to get to a party," Shieldkret said, "if once you get there no one talks to you?" Non-disabled people often feel uncomfortable and embarrassed around the disabled, particularly those with visible handicaps. When Margaret Chisholm, reference librarian at the law school, broke her leg and began using crutches to move around, she struggled not only with the heavy manual elevator gates where she works, but also with a deep sense of loneliness. "There was a real difference in the expressions of people in the street when it was not clear whether my disability was temporary or not," Chisholm explained. "When I was on two crutches, it was obvious that my disability was temporary; strangers on the street would look at me and nod with an expression that seemed to say, 'Too bad.' But when I used one crutch or a cane, a lot of people acted as if I had a permanent disability. Strangers in the street tended to look away from me as if I should be invisible." 

The disabled must battle not only against false stereotyping but also against patronizing attitudes. "People ask me, 'How can you be at Yale if you are dyslexic?'" said David Chrisman, PC '86. "There is a stereotype of dyslexics being dumb. Actually, dyslexia is a disorder of information processing and memory storage in the brain and has nothing to do with level of intelligence." Mary Schulze, SY '87, said strongly, "Sometimes people can be overy overprotective. They'll decide to take me under their wing and treat me like a child. They'll assume I haven't heard anything at all and answer for me instead of aJlowing me to answer for myself." 

Increased contact and information make the non-disabled more sensitive to the needs of the disabled so that the disability-not the person-becomes diminished. George Loebach, DC '87, Ann Kohanski's roommate, explained, "While other people just dash across the street, Ann always has to look for a ramp on the sidewalk. As a result, I think Ann has a lot more patience than most people and she's willing to fight for things." She paused. "I don't think of Ann as different, as a handicapped person. I just think of her as 'Ann'- someone who's short, has curly brown hair and likes to ride horses. I never think of treating her any differently from any of my other friends, and Ann certainly doesn't ask for special kid-glove treatment." Laura Teodosio, MC '86, described the first time she met Kohanski. "I felt a little self-conscious, scared that I might offend her with a thoughtless word or reaction.'' Yet, Teodosio found her own stereotypes and prejudgments quickly shattered after getting to know Kohanski. "She was very self· sufficient," Teodosio admitted. "She doesn't use her handicap as a crutch and only asks for help when physical barriers prevent her from doing something. herself." 

Last year, a volunteer group formed