Publication date: 04/86
Volume 18, Issue 6

**Title:  A Dishonorable History**
**Author: Lenny Picker**
**Page number(s): 44-45**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Joining the Club: A History of Jews and Yale by Dan A. Oren Yale University Press, 1986 440 pages, $29.95
For a week in the fall of 1980, the front and editorial pages of the Yale Daily News (YDN) were dominated by a heated exchange over accusations of anti-Semitism at Yale: "Yale callous to Jews, Wolf says in sermon," "Goldstein, Giamatti, alumnus deny rabbi's charges of anti-Semitism," "Yale Jews debate Wolf allegations." Hillel Director and Jewish Chaplain Arnold Jacob Wolf sparked the controversy by his remarks at the last Yom Kippur service he presided over at Yale. The YDN quoted Wolf as condemning a "long and dishonorable history of anti-Semitism at Yale," as well as a continuing insensitivity to Jewish concerns. While there is good reason to suspect the YDN of presenting a skewed picture of the substance and focus of Wolfs statements, the initial article fueled numerous responses, and the dispute made its way into The New York Times. Yale Professors Harold Bloom and John Hollander added their views to the controversy in a letter to the YDN: It is our judgment as jewish members of the Yale faculty that there is no basis in reality for any of [Wolf's) allegations. Nothing is more irresponsible or harmful than totally unwarranted and unsupported accusations of anti-Semitism. Rather than refute point by point Rabbi Wolrs list of complaints or particularize his falsehoods, which might seem to give weight to such foolish fancies, we prefer to observe that his performance was totally at variance with the best traditions of the rabbinate. Anyone still sharing Bloom and Hollander's views regarding Yale's past should read Dan A. Oren'sjoining the Club: A History of Jews and Yale, published last February. Dr. Oren, '79, Medical School '84 and currently a post-doctoral fellow in psychiatry, meticulously documents Yale's treatment of Jewish applicants, students and faculty, from the university's humble beginnings as a small Congregationalist seminary to the present day. After nearly a decade of probing through Yale archives and extensive interviewing of past and present members of the university community, Oren has uncovered irrefutable proof that Yale does indeed have in its closet, as Rabbi Wolf claimed, "a long and dishonorable history of anti-Semitism."


joining the Club has resonance beyond Yale's confines; it may be the most thorough study of restrictive admissions towards Jews in existence, and the evolution it traces of the Yale Administration's attitudes towards Jews and other minorities parallels a similar progression in American society. While Oren clearly focuses on Yale, he often refers to analogous policies and postures on the part of fellow Ivy League institutions and shows that the infection of Yale by racism was not an isolated case, but a more virulent one. Indeed, it is to Yale's lasting shame that it was the last Ivy school to abandon its primitive quota system.


As an undergraduate Oren was active in Jewish life on campus, serving on the Board of Yale Hillel and on the search committee for Rabbi Wolf's successor. A sophomore year class on American Jewish history started his exploration of Yale's admissions policies regarding Jews. His term paper for the course mushroomed into a senior essay, which in turn became the basis for his book.


joining the Club divides Yale history into three sections: 1701-1878, 1878-1941 and 1941-1977. For each period, Oren examines the numbers and status of Jews in the student body, faculty and administration, their feelings regarding their Yale experiences and the views towards them held by the university at large.


According to Oren, through 1878Jews at Yale experienced relatively little anti-Semitism: ... scholarly achievement continued to be a hallmark of the Jewish students in the college. Few in number, the Jewish boys were an accepted part of the campus community. The presence of students of all leading religious denominations and the permission that Yale granted for all students to attend the Sabbath religious services of their choice were sources of pride to the college faculty. In the last quarter of the 19th century, prejudice against .J~ws at Yale increased, concomitant both with the increase in societal anti-Semitism and an alteration in the character of Yale. Contemporary students unfamiliar with Yale history might be surprised at the very different atmosphere that prevailed 60 to 80 years ago. According to Oren, " ... academic effort came to be placed well below the pedestal of an all-absorbing extra-curricular life of sport and snobbery. Throughout the country, learning and good grades had become unfashionable while social status dominated student energies." In this new Yale, the quintessential sign of success was membership in a secret society or fraternity.


Joining the Club reveals that, by the 1920s, Yale had shifted to a policy of restrictive admissions known as "Limitation of Numbers." in effect a 10 percent quota on accepted Jewish applicants. Yale adminstrators involved in formulating and implementing this policy indict themselves in correspondence and memoranda which Oren uncovered. The author is scrupulously even-handed in his presentation of these materials, often pointing out where a formal policy or harsh statement was mitigated in practice.


Even with this balance, however, a disturbing picture emerges. In 1922 Dean of Freshmen Roswell Angier viewed Jewish students on the whole as "personally and socially unacceptable" and "more or less in the nature of a foreign body in the class organism." In 1918 Yale College Dean Frederick Sheetz Jones feared that the "Jewish element ... will overrun us." After Jewish students won "every single scholarship of value," Jones proposed a "ban on Jews." Such insensitivity and racism penetrated to the highest levels. In 1933 University President James Rowland Angell ( 1921-193 7) jokingly suggested to the chairman of admissions that a pogrom might be the answer to Yale's Jewish problem: am extremely interested in the Hebraic record which you are kind enough to send me. The oscillations from year to year are rather larger than I would have expected. In any case, the material is very informing, and it seems quite clear that, if we could have an Armenian massacre confined to the New Haven district, with occasional incursions into Bridgeport and Hartford, we might protect our Nordic stock almost completely.


Oren discloses that anticipation of Nazi intentions was not limited to a chance comment by Angell. In a letter found by Oren in his research, a Yale faculty member is quoted as having said, "If there are Jews who want to go to college, let them go to Harvard. Let Hitler be Harvard's president. He'll take care of them." Compatible sentiments echoed from the student body and alumni. In addition, Oren finds that discrimination against Jewish applicants was also manifested at the medical school, which was, ironically, under the stewardship of Dean Milton Winternitz, a Jew. And those Jewish students who were accepted faced numerous barriers to successful integration into college life. For example, an alumni committee composed entirely of non-Jews charged that Yale coaches "consistently kept out Jewish athletes, thereby hurting team performance."


Rectification of Yale's anti-Semitic policies was long in coming. Oren identifies two major factors in the shift of attitudes towards Jews throughout the Yale community. The development of the residential college system was a conscious effort at social integration, and the Second World War, which starkly demonstrated the price of racism, was followed by the spread of the doctrine of meritocracy. President A. Whitney Griswold (1950-63), prodded by Hillel Director Richard J. Israel, University Chaplain William Sloane Coffin and influential alumnus William Horowitz, was . instrumental in effecting the changes in the Yale admissions process that led in the 1960s to the lifting of the "Limitation of Numbers" policy, years after other Ivy League institutions had done so. Oren does touch upon evolving Yale perceptions of other non-Protestant minorities, but he clearly states how the problems of Jews differed: "In contradistinction to other ethnic and minority groups, Jews became an issue at Yale (and elsewhere) in the twentieth century because so many of them achieved intellectual success