Publication date: February 23, 1969
Volume: two
Issue number: seven

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors: Jeffrey Pollock, Jonathan Lear
- Business Manager: Jean-Pierre Jordan
- Executive Editor: Herman Hong
- Art Director: Bruce Mcintosh
- Associate Editor: Lawrence Lasker
- Advertising Manager: K. Elia Georgiades
- Copy Editor: Paul Bennett
- Photography Editor: Robert Randolph
- Circulation Managers: John Adams, Steve Thomas
- Contributing Editors: Susan Holahan, William L. Kahrl, Mopsy S. Kennedy, Michael Lerner, Leo Ribuffo
- Staff: Dennis Evans, Paul Goldberger, Joseph Fincke, Anna Fleck, Kathy Grossman, Nita Kalish, Michael David Rose, Scott Simpson, Nancy Vickers, Warner Wada, Michael Waltuch


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- A computer odyssey - Paul Goldberger and Ray Erickson
- Rockin' Bacchants - Larry Lasker
- Decent education - Edgar Z. Friedenberg
- Jimmy Miller Story - George Kannar
- True confessions - Leo Ribuffo
- Letters


**Title: Best Bet**
**Author: Jonathan Lear**
**Page number(s): 2**

Recruiting for the CIA just ain't like it 
used to be. Why, just a few years, a few 
suppressed revolutions and a Vietnam War 
ago, a clean-cut, hard-working recruiter 
could put a few ads in the college paper, 
sit back and take it easy. But this is an 
idyllic picture of a paradise lost, for in an 
age of increasingly complex problems the 
CIA recruiter has not been left behind. 
He wants to recruit students from college, 
and yet when he goes for a campus tour, 
he is besieged by protestors sitting in on 
him, demonstrating outside and generally 
giving him a hard time. What to do? Go 
underground, stupid, that's what you're 
all about anyway. If you can't recruit 
secretly at Yale, how the hell arc you going 
to walk down Main Street in Peking with-
out being noticed, right? 


So C IA recruitment at Yale today is not 
unlike a secret society tapping prospective 
members. The recruiter quietly goes 
around collecting names and unobtrusive-
ly calls select students and asks them if 
they want to be spies. 


But don't think that it's easier to get into 
the CIA than Skull and Bones, because 
after the tap you ain't there yet. First you 
have to take a test-sort of like spy boards. 
It seems unfair, though, that only the 
select few who are tapped ever get to try 
their luck at the spy boards. Pity the poor 
aspiring spy who never gets that mys-
terious phone call, because he can never 
find out when and where to take the test. 
Fear no longer. For all of you aspiring 
spies and the scads of you who just want to 
take a spy board, let us let you in on a little 
secret. The CIA is giving these examina-
tions at Yale this Saturday, February 22, 
at 8:45AM at the Sterling Chemistry 
Laboratory. 


It may be early in the morning, but ifs 
worth getting up for.


**Title: Cosmic Hog**
**Author: Larry Lasker**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

When Tom Wolfe came out a few months 
ago with The Electric Kool-Aid Acid 
Test, the slightly fictionalized account of 
Ken Kesey and his band of Merry Prank-
sters, Johnny Krown and some fellow 
Law School students got so turned on to 
the idea of "having fun·· that they decided 
to try bringing some to Yale. But last 
December Krown, who had helped create 
the Warmth Committee at Columbia a 
couple of years ago. obtained a store front 
on Chapel Street and a Prankster-style 
name for the new non-organization: 
Cosmic Laboratoriu, Inc., "a happenings 
agency for the Yale community." The first 
venture for the Labs was The Silence 
Test, a moderately successful (whatever 
that means) event at which people played 
with cardboard boxes and silly putty for 
three hours without saying a word. 


For the past ten months, the Hog Farm, 
a large commune (fifty long-haired men, 
women and babies) organized about three 
years ago on a hog farm in the hills north 
of Los Angeles and headed by former 
Prankster Hugh Romney, has been travel-
ing across America in wildly painted 
buses spreading the same word which 
spawned the Cosmic Labs: free fun. On 
Christmas Day Krown met Romney at 
The Electric Circus in New York and in-
vited the Farm to try something at Yale. 
Romney said they would. And last Friday 
and Saturday nights they d'd. 


"Most of these people h d never even 
seen a light show," said Krown of the 
Friday night "mixer" at the Law School. 
"But everyone danced and took part in the 
circle games-including the secretaries 
and kitchen help. They loved it. At first 
they were afraid of the long-hairs invading 
the building with all their flags and elec-
tric equipment, but when they got to know 
them they really dug them. It was a fan-
tastic coup." 


The Hammond Metallurgical Labora-
tory, at the foot of Science Hill near the 
skating rink, has never looked quite so 
resplendently hip as it did Saturday night 
for the free Cosmic Mixer. American flags 
and white light-show sheets draped the 
gray warehouse walls, mylar lined the 
halls, and acres of long-haired and crew-
cut heads tossed and shook with the beat 
of the bands-the Hog Farm, New 
Haven's Jim Ground and some unknown 
group ("You have heard of them," said 
Krown with obvious understatement) 
which may or may not have been the 
Grateful Dead. "I can't believe it,'' said 
one girl as she watched the people holding 
hands and dancing. " In New Haven! Well, 
yes I can. They are just people, after all. 
Everyone needs this." On a balcony above 
the dancers, Romney, dressed in a jester's 
costume, told the people to freeze where 
they were. Five frogs were loose on the 
floor. A little girl, maybe three years old, 
rode through the panting people on the 
shoulders of a bearded man dressed in an 
Uncle Sam costume and collected the 
frogs as they were found. The dancing 
resumed. 


On Sunday, most of the Hog Farm 
departed for New York and for a farm in 
western Pennsylvania, the commune's 
east-coast headquarters. In New York 
they plan to exhibit the film they have 
been making on their cross-country jour-
ney and will, perhaps, be joined by the 
Grateful Dead and Ken Kesey. "Our plans 
for the future are kind of vague," said 
Mrs. Romney as she leaned against a 
book-shelf in one of the departing buses 
(named Road Hog). "I think we'll do a trip 
through New England next, but who 
knows?" A Yale student waved at the bus 
from the street. "Come back!" he shouted. 
"Yeah," said the driver of the bus. "Yeah, 
maybe we will." 


The future plans of Cosmic Labora-
tories, Inc., are vague as well. "There'll be 
some surprises," promised Krown. Since 
everything the Labs do is free, they de-
pend on loans and contributions-not 
money, which is frowned upon, but food, 
equipment, sleeping bags and volunteers 
-to continue. A sign in their store win-
dow tells you what they need. It tells you. 
in addition, that "today is the first day in 
the rest of your life."


**Title: Berrigan**
**Author:  Joe Brainard**
**Page number(s): 3-4**

get up very late 
don't shave 
put on purple scarf & cross Branford quad 
have a cheeseburger 
answer questions 
find out where english 77 meets 
try to get out of classroom alive 
survive 
shoot a little pool 
have another cheeseburger & 
maybe a pepsi 
get directions to de basement 
admire the painted pipes 
get a beer & read some funny poems 
get another beer & read some sonnets 
escape 
smoke with friends 
look over your works 
disappear


Joe Brainard, a painter who once lived 
in a New York City storefront with Ted 
Berrigan, says that he thinks of Ted as a 
very large bear, although probably he's 
not more than average height. And he 
thinks of his beard as red. The beard is 
very full and very dark brown, with just 
the reddish glow that dark brown hair 
picks up in the sun. Ted Berrigan is about 
6 feet tall. He takes up a lot of space, with 
his long hair, his beard, his plaid flannel 
shirt and his 3-inch-wide baby-blue-plastic 
authentic-American-Indian-insignia belt 
between an imminent paunch and cor-
duroy slacks. 


"New Haven is very relaxing, after New 
York," he said. "A little like Iowa City. 
Fine pool hall." In Iowa City, if you want 
to relax, you shoot pool. Iowa City is also 
the home of the University of Iowa, fam-
ous for its creative writing program, in 
which Ted Berrigan is teaching this year. 
He brings the gospel of the New York 
School in poetry to the graduate students 
in writing classes, but between classes 
apparently he shoots pool and writes 
poems in which elephants parade down the 
main streets of Iowa City, bringing a new 
excitement to the plains. 


Having been invited to Yale as part of 
Branford's Hall Seminar, he explained one 
day in class that his long poem, "Tam-
bourine Life," was written, a page or two 
a day for months, about whatever hap-
pened or whatever struck his fancy at the 
moment. It started with a red, white and 
blue sign prominent in Tuli Kupferberg's 
bathroom and ended with the death of a 
Tulsa friend, Anne Kepler, who had gone 
to teach the flute to children in a Yonkers 
hospital the night that it was destroyed by 
a teenage arsonist. 


The next day he began by explaining 
that he had started a prose narrative, 
"Looking for Chris," after a friend had 
related a dream to him. He had included 
in its songs and phrases from the radio; he 
had tried to sound adolescent, even maw-
kish. Then, to avoid encouraging a false 
sense of continuity, he had taken scissors 
to his prose. Section by section, he cut his 
work into strips or phrases or single words. 
He arranged it; typed the results; cut 
again; rearranged again. He tried for a 
rhythm in the prose that would compen-
sate for the loss of sequence. He didn't 
really expect that anyone would be in-
terested enough to read much of it, but he 
had learned from doing it things he could 
use in other works. 

continued on page 14


**Title: A computer odyssey**
**Author: Paul Goldberger and Ray Erickson**

The Yale Computer Center is of growing im-
portance. More and more undergraduates 
each year are exploring the applications of 
the computer to a wide variety of fields, in-
cluding the social sciences and even the 
humanities. To keep pace with increasing 
student and faculty demand for computer 
time, the University is continually increasing 
the capacity and flexibility of its computer 
plant. The Computer Center now has one of 
the finest digital computing facilities of any 
university in the world, the core of which is 
an IBM 360-model 50 system. 


So reads an extract from Yale College/ 
Introductory Information 1968-69, the 
prospective student's first source of infor-
mation about Yale. The Admissions Of-
fice, which usually tells it like it is, has 
pulled a fast one this time, because not 
only is the Computer Center not contin-
ually increasing the capacity and flexibility 
of its computer plant, it is right now on 
the verge of getting rid of the IBM 360-
model 50, its pride and joy. It seems that 
"keeping pace with increasing demand" 
is proving a little too expensive, and 
serious consideration is being given to 
turning the 360 back to IBM, with no 
replacement system planned. 


If the system goes, it will leave a void 
far larger than the space it occupied on 
Whitney A venue. For one part of the 
Introductory Information statement was 
very true: more and more students are us-
ing the computer facilities, and for a 
wider and wider range of projects. Stu-
dent use now accounts for 25 percent of 
all computer time at Yale, and courses in 
the humanities and social sciences are 
competing heavily for use of the facilities 
with the science departments-who only 
a few years ago could almost call the com-
puter exclusive property. Computer de-
mand in education has been growing 
steadily and is reachrng unprecedented 
heights. 


Yale's public recognition of this fact 
has been enthusiastic-witness the op-
timistic Admissions Office statement-
yet the University's private response to the 
computer boom has been almost nil. Yale 
now underwrites a mere 17.5 percent of 
the cost of computation on campus, as 
opposed to Princeton's over 50 percent 
and Stanford's 40 percent. The rest of the 
money to run the Yale Computing Center 
has come from the US government, which 
has of late begun to tighten its own purse 
strings. Yale is reluctant to make up the 
resulting deficit; thus, the current crisis. 


The Computer Center was officially 
founded in 1957 when ten departments, 
representing the physical sciences, en-
gineering, forestry, economics and psy-
chology, banded themselves and their 
money together to support the cost of an 
IBM 650, a "first-generation" computer, 
almost primitive by today's standards. 
The administration's attitude then was 
much the same as it is now: delight at the 
existence of such a facility but reluctance 
to offer any financial support. 


Raymond Erickson, a graduate student in 
history of music, held the IBM Fellowship 
in the Humanities at Yale. Paul Gold-
berger, a freshman in Stiles College, is on 
the staff of The New Journal. His writing 
has appeared in the New York Times 
Magazine. 


Then things began to grow. In 1960 the 
National Science Foundation set the pre-
cedent for government support with a one 
million dollar grant, earmarked for the 
purchase of a new IBM 709 computer. 
Arthur K. Watson offered a building to 
house the 709; and Skidmore, Owings and 
Merrill, architects of the Beinecke Li-
brary, produced a slick glass house on 
Sachem Street that proved to all the world 
that the Computer Center had finally ar-
rived. These quarters have since been 
outgrown, and the Center is now around 
the corner at 15 5 Whitney A venue. 


Until1964, the few non-scientists who 
wanted to use the computers could do so 
only through the off-the-record generosity 
of the Computer Center. The University 
-until federal auditors put a sudden halt 
to the process-put NSF funds into an 
undesignated pool, then reapportioned 
them to include the few non-scientific 
projects, thus giving non-scientists com-
puter time paid for by science grants. The 
amount was slight, however, and only a 
few game souls from the Art and Archi-
tecture and Drama Schools and the clas-
sics department were able to use this tactic. 


The NSF grant of $700,000 spread over 
three years beginning in 1964 marked the 
first time a non-scientist could legally get 
his foot in the computer door. The grant 
specified that computer time was to be 
made available to all departments, with 
the University underwriting the non-
science projects and the NSF money pay-
ing for computer use within the sciences. 


Yale's share of the computer subsidy 
now amounts to $250,000 per year, but 
costs have risen so steeply that this year's 
donation is already gone and the balance 
of the current budget must be written in 
red ink. Yale's subsidy is not significantly 
larger than last year, although the NSF 
grant has now expired, and the Univer-
sity's failure to assume an increasing share 
of costs during the grant period makes 
renewal unlikely. 


An unanticipated 25 percent across-the-
board cut in Federal research grants has 
added to the crisis situation this year. Yale 
budget planners had expected some deficit 
in the Computer Center's operations this 
year, but the combination of less NSF 
money, less Federally supported research 
and the inevitable high cost of the new 
IBM 360 system have resulted in a cur-
rent estimated deficit of roughly $300,000 
-more than three times the anticipated 
amount. As plans now stand, student use 
of computer facilities will be bit hardest 
by budget cuts. 


Yet it is precisely in the area of educa-
tional use that computers are "booming." 
The 25 percent of Yale computer time 
that goes to class use is divided among an 
ever-increasing number of departments. 
Music, history, linguistics and the social 
sciences are all taking advantage of the 
facilities as never before. Indeed, the 
science departments are losing ground in 
their percentage of total computer use. 
The physics department, which once ac-
counted for almost 30 percent of all 
computer usage, is now down to 12 per-
cent, while the music department has used 
$15,000 of computer time so far this year 
alone and is one of the top ten users of the 
new 360 system. 



**The Yale Computer Center Crisis**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Although humanities and social-science 
research and classwork have been taking 
an increasing share of computer time, 
these departments remain unrepresented 
on the Yale Computer Center Advisory 
Board, whose mandate will be necessary if 
the Computer Center is to receive the Yale 
support it needs to rescue itself from the 
current crisis. The Board- which should 
be the leading advocate of increased com-
puter facilities in the University-is split 
between a strong-willed minority which 
sees no value in saving the IBM 360 and 
a majority which, while supporting there-
tention of the new 360, unfortunately 
represents fewer outside money interests. 
The Board is made up of individuals from 
the physical sciences and medicine as well 
as from economics and psychology, areas 
which use computers primarily for the 
solution of numerical problems. It is these 
disciplines, of course, that have attracted 
the government money that has kept the 
Center functioning for several years and 
allowed Yale to regard the Center as a 
peripheral item in its overall budget. 


So in one sense the current crisis breaks 
down to the time-worn story of the hu-
manities and social sciences versus the 
physical sciences. Government support 
has come for physical sciences computer 
use, but in the area of humanities and 
social sciences, where the "boom" in 
computer education is taking place, the 
University must foot the bill itself. So far 
Yale has refused to give the non-sciences 
the vote of confidence they need to retain 
their "computer privileges." 


No less tragic for the University would 
be the Joss of staff which would result 
from the planned cutback of operations. 
Yale's Computer Center staff is recognized 
as one of the finest in the country, yet the 
University's persistent attitude toward the 
staff has been more like that of a master 
toward a servant than one characteristic 
of professional colleagues in education. 
Some of the Computer Center staff heard 
of the proposed cutbacks by word of 
mouth, not through University channels. 
The general reaction was one of disillu-
sionment, not anger; for as one staff mem-
ber said, "We had a misconception of 
what Yale really wanted" in the way of 
computing facilities. Most bad never re-
alized how little, in the final analysis, the 
Computer Center figured in the Univer-
sity's policies. 


What about the users of the Computer 
Center? By and large, they are aghast. 
John McCarthy, an acting instructor in 
history and a frequent user of the com-
puters for his research on the Reconstruc-
tion period, notes that Yale's attraction 
to students and faculty would be seriously 
dimmed if the 360 system is returned. 
McCarthy, who regularly assigns his His-
tory 91 students computer problems in-
volving quantitative historical data, adds 
that the earlier machines that would be 
left after the IBM 360's departure would 
be inadequate to handle the large amounts 
of data necessary for an adequate social-
science data bank. H e concludes: "I am 
appalled." 


The view of the computer as a data 
bank is one which has begun to attract 
more and more proponents in the human-
ities and social-science fields. Among 
them is Rufus Hendon, Associate Profes-
sor of Southeast Asian Languages, who 
says that he uses the computer almost con-
stantly but the library "only a dozen or 
so times in the last year." Robert G. 
Wheeler, Professor of Physics and Applied 
Sciences, disagrees and states that since 
under two thousand members of the Yale 
community actually use the computer 
system, it cannot be viewed as a basic 
resource center. Wheeler sees the only 
question to be whether Yale can afford to 
maintain its 360 system now, and his an-
swer is no. Unfortunately, Wheeler is not 
just an outspoken faculty member; he is 
the chairman of the Yale Computer Cen-
ter Advisory Board, and his words carry 
weight. 


Wheeler fears the loss to the rest of the 
University from increased spending on 
computer operations. "I'm worried about 
the preservation of Yale as a first-rate in-
stitution," he says. 


But so is everyone else in this battle of 
the booming computers. The University is 
obviously proud of its superb computer in-
stallations, or so it tells its prospective 
freshmen; but it remains unwilling to 
shoulder the financial burden of main-
taining the advanced 360 system. Can 
Yale keep its pace without paying the 
price? Unfortunately, this is one question 
that the computer can't answer. :


**The Whole Land Will Rock**
**Author: Lawrence Lasker**
**Page number(s): 5**

S 1 The New Journal! February 23, 1969 
The whole land 
will rock 
will jump 
by 
Lawrence Lasker
Clear the streets--
We'rehere. 
We'vecome ... 
The whole land will rock 
The whole land will jump 
He stirs, yes, now he thrusts, yes now 
He blooms in you, the power Dionysus ... 
Baccbae, dart! 
Bacchae, run! 
Bacchae, dance! 
There are indications that a riot broke out 
in the theater when Euripides' The Bac-
chae was first staged, nearly 2500 years 
ago in Athens. Subsequent productions of 
the play, considered one of the most ex-
treme and powerful tragedies ever written, 
have been somewhat anti-climactic; next 
month the Yale Repertory Theater will 
present a new translation and a new ap-
proach that should produce one of the 
more exciting Bacchae in recent theater 
history. 


"The most incredible thing about this 
play," says Kenneth Cavander, who wrote 
the new translation, "is that through an 
almost unique coincidence of history, 
some sort of time warp, Euripides wrote 
a tragedy for his time that turned out to 
be the perfect tragedy for a later time-
ours. It's quite amazing, but we are going 
through the exact same thing now. The 
revival of a Dionysian style of life, the 
confrontation of ecstasy with Jaw and 
order, everything." Six years ago Cav-
ander finished his new translation of The 
Bacchae, a translation he calls "absolutely 
theatrical," but until now be has been 
unable to get the play produced the way 
he thinks it should be done. 


Last spring, the Drama School did a 
reading of Cavander's translation. The 
chorus bad a jug of wine up on stage and 
got progressively drunk as the play went 
on. Brustein liked it and decided to do the 
play full-scale. He was also inspired, he 
said, by the Pentagon confrontation-it 
reminded him of the Bacchae confronting 
a Greek palace. 


"In almost every translation and pro-
duction of Greek tragedy I have seen," 
says Cavander, "everyone has thought of 
it as a heavy, ritualistic, liturgical and 
consequently quite boring affair. Under 
the guise of reverence to the classics, 
people have set them up as so grand and 
so beautiful that we are not touched by 
them. By whatever means we use, the 
play should get to the audience. It should 
disturb them, make them feel they've been 
through something-not insulted, but 
spoken to. 


"And now if Andre gets just half his 
ideas on stage, this will be years ahead of 
other Greek plays. He really wants to do 
it for real, not mess around with ancient 
Greek museum pieces." 


Andre Gregory, who came to Yale from 
New York this year to direct The Bacchae, 
sat at a red-checkered table in the Yale 
Cabaret last week and talked about the 
play. The sounds of silverware clattering 
on lunch plates and the endless chatter 
of actors swarmed about the room. "The 
only way to do this play, which I think is 
the most difficult play to stage ever writ-
ten, is to approach it the way we [himself 
and Stanley Rosenberg, the director of the 
chorus} are approaching it-a process of 
discovery without looking ahead. We've 
gone through a number of different stages 
in how we think the play should be pre-
sented. At one time I wanted to literally 
bring the ceiling down almost on top of 
the audience-! didn't want them to sit 
back and just observe, I wanted to assault 
them. Well of course, we couldn't do it. 
The theater has all the limitations of real 
life." 


One of the most important influences 
on G regory's handling of The Bacchae is 
the work of Jerzy Grotowski, a young 
Polish director with whom Gregory 
studied briefly in December. "Jerzy Gro-
towski is the most important theater rev-
olutionary since I guess Stanislavski;" said 
Gregory. "He is returning mystery and 
danger-real mystery and danger-to the 
theater. You see, theater should not try 
to imitate films; it can't. So Grotowski, 
with his notion of the Poor Theater, has 
asked himself, Well, what is it that makes 
theater unique, what is essential? He has 
found that theater can do without make-
up, without music, sets, costumes and 
lights. What is left? The actor, first of all, 
and the special relationship between the 
actor and his audience." 


Grotowski differs with Julian Beck, 
Gregory explained, in his estimation of 
this relationship. Where Beck aims to 
destroy the barriers between the two, 
Grotowski feels that the spectator, while 
he can and should be active, must always 
remain a spectator. "If the spectator par-
ticipates in the play, he is acting at par-
ticipating, and so it's phony," said 
Gregory, shifting the little cap he wears 
over his long, thin hair. 


"Anyway," he continued, "Grotowski 
has been working for the past nine years 
with a company of nine, and be has de-
veloped actors that can do what no other 
actors can do. They have a control over 
their bodies and their voices, and over 
their psyches, that is literally beyond the 
human. Rather than express the personal 
vision, they express the primordial reality. 
And I believe that an actor must be able 
to perform what we can perform only 
in our dreams." Gregory stood up and 
smiled; he had to go to a rehearsal. "Ob, 
I could talk to you about Grotowski for 
four hours. But to get a feel for what he 
is doing, you should really see The Cat." 


**Yale University Press New Books**
**Page number(s): 6**

New from Yale Pelikan 
Development of Chrlatlan Doctrine Some Historical Prolegomena 
by Jaroalav Pelikan 
The problem of change has assumed great prominence in much 
of the current ferment in theology, and many of the issues in 
question can best be interpreted as relating to the validity and 
limits of doctrinal development. Mr. Pelikan presents three case 
histories of the particular doctrines that have crucial points of 
division among Christians-Cyprian on Original Sin, Athanasius 
on the Virgin Mary, and Hilary on the Holy Spirit -
demonstrat-
ing the interaction between the sacramental life of the church 
and the intellectual work of the theologian that consistently 
marked the development of doctrine by the early fathers. 
$6.00 


Wright 
China In Revolution: The Firat Phaaa, 1900-1913 
edited, with an Introduction by Mary Clabaugh Wright 
"Great themes run through this book: local differentiation and 
societal integration, reform and revolution, innovation end 
renewal, conservatism and radicalism, tradition and m• dernity. 
All relate to the fascinating dialectic of Chinese history." ..• G. 
William Skinner. "Will set a style for ten or twenty years hence, 
by posing problems that will have to be dealt with by all 
scholars of this subject." ... John K. Fairbank $15.00 


Scher 
Verbal Mualc In German Literature 
A New Yale 
Paperbound 
by Steven Paul Scher 
This cogent study focuses on literary presentations of existing 
or fictional musical compositions, i.e. poetic textures which 
have particular pieces of music as their "themes." By means of 
comparative evaluation of passages from the works of W.H. 
Wackenroder, Lugwig Tieck, E.T.A. Hoffman, Heinrich Heine, 
and Thomas Mann, Mr. Scher defines "verbal music" as a 
literary phenomenon of great potential. $6.75 


Dahl 
Yale Unlveralty PreM 
New Haven and London 
Political Oppoaltlona In Weatem Democracies 
edited by Robert A. Dahl 
"This stately volume is distinguished by several unusual fea-
tures. First, It straightforwardly focuses on a crucial issue of 
Comparative Politics without being vitiated by the familiar 
behaviorist semantics and jargon. Secondly, contrary to the 
ubiquitous trend In this country flooded by discussion on the 
emergent states, it centers on constitutional democracy in 
Western Europe, a region which for a decade or more had been 
badly neglected by the rampant computerizers. Thirdly, for 
the ten countries under discussion Professor Dahl was fortu-
nate to enlist the services of genuine experts, the majority of 
whom are nationals of the country reviewed •.•. " Karl Loewen-
stein. The Annals of the American Academy of Political and 
Social Science. 
$2.95 


Scott 
The Broken Center Studies In the Theological Horizon of Modern Literature 
by Nathan A. Scott, Jr. 
"Underlying much of the most representative poetry, drama, 
and fiction of our period," Mr. Scott explains, "is a sense that 
the anchoring center of life is broken and that the world is 
therefore abandoned and adrift." It is this negatively theologi-
cal character of modem literature that compels criticism 
itself to enter an essentially theological order of discourse 
and evaluation; and it is to this tradition that Mr. Scott's new 
book belongs. $1.75 
ANewYale J 
Pape•bound


aspers 
The Origin end Goat or History 
by Karl Jaspers 
"We and the present in which we live are situated In the midst 
of history. This present of ours becomes null and void if it loses 
itself within the narrow horizon of the day and degenerates into 
a mere present. The aim of this book is to assist In heighten-
Ing our awareness of the present." ... from the author's 
Foreword. "One feels especially inclined to applaud an aca-
demician who still believes that philosophy's proper function is 
to deal with the central problems of the human predicament." 
... Partisan Review. $1.95


... there are great things 
That must be brought to the day light, 
Made part of our waking and sleeping. 
Calmly accept them, peacefully weave them 
Into your life-and it will be a good life, 
Dissolving and solving discords, 
Freeing you, 
Making you one with yourself, 
And with the world around you. 


"At first I hated it," said one of the girls 
in the Bacchae chorus as she stood in a 
corner of the rehearsal room, "all the ex-
ercises and acrobatics-yech. One day I 
told Stanley I was going to quit. He told 
me to stick around one more time and, 
just like in the movies, I began to like it. 
And it really has done a lot of good for 
me." A dozen drama students, barefoot 
and in tights, sat on the polished wood 
floor and waited for Stanley Rosenberg to 
arrive for the morning work-out.


Most of the students in the group began 
taking "physicalization" classes last Octo-
ber from Rosenberg, who came to Yale 
this year to introduce the new program. 
Rosenberg, who is one of the few Ameri-
cans to have studied with Grotowski for 
any length of time (he has taken part in 
Grotowski's workshop for the past two 
summers), is director of La Mama Plexus 
Theater in New York and leader of La 
Mama Plexus Workshop, a group of actors 
who support themselves with other jobs 
in order to work together. This January, 
when people started hunting actors for the 
Bacchae chorus, Rosenberg took the best 
students from his class and-presto--the 
wine-drinking, love-making Bacchae were 
born. Well, not quite. There were still 
months of training ahead, six days a week, 
before the group would be in the physical 
and emotional shape Rosenberg thought 
the chorus demanded. The most important 
exercise the students have worked with is 
the basic Grotowski exercise, The Cat.


The students lay in a large circle on the 
· floor as Rosenberg watched from a 
window-seat. He is a short man with a 
round black beard and quick, kind eyes. 
"Try two variations this time, and explore 
vocal problems. Make sounds, the sounds 
of a cat maybe," he suggested. A girl in 
black tights was the first to move: slowly 
she raised herself on her arms and curled 
her spine back, hissing softly. Soon the 
others began to stir, stretch, and the room 
was defined by moans, hissing, wailing. 
They arched their backs and began to 
thump slowly about the floor in a series of 
somersaults and headstands. As you can 
watch someone while he talks and see, but 
not hear him consider and reject alterna-
tive phrases, so the actors' movements in 
The Cat spoke for their hesitations and 
uncertainties as they sought a direction 
to their movement. One girl ended her 
Cat standing before the window, head 
dropped back, her arms stretched out, 
trembling at the morning sun as she wailed 
in a loud, clear voice. 


"The Cat is based mainly on yoga posi-
tions which Grotowski translated into a 
theatrical exercise," said Stanley Rosen-
berg, sitting on a couch in the apartment 
he and his young wife Susie, had just 
moved into a few days earlier. "It's used 
to explore an actor's objectives-what be 
wants to do, how be chooses to do it-
and to work out problems of voice, bal-
ance and movement. 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
71 The New Journal I February 23, 1969 
"You see, I like talking about the actor 
experiencing things, living and finding 
things out for himself. Instead of saying 
to the actor, 'remember what it's like,' I 
give him an exercise that is an experience 
he can use later up on the stage. The Cat 
itself is not theatrical, but it does give the 
actor an experience he can then turn into 
something theatrical." 

He spoke of Grotowski. "He's quite 
plump, and he has these very thick glasses, 
and his sense of the theatrical leads him to 
wear black suits-most people see him as a 
great god, a great guru. He's extremely 
warm and patient, he'll listen to you talk, 
and then he'll talk, sometimes for hours on 
just what you said. 

"He exercises his students strenuously 
-you know, to keep people from thinking 
too much, to keep it down in the body. 
But he concentrates on individual people 
-
he works with them on their ground, in-
stead of trying to change them to his own 
style. That's the trouble, though, with 
talking about Grotowski. Everyone kind 
of has a piece of the pie; Peter Brook will 
say it's this, and Tom O'Horgan will say 
it's this, and it really isn't any one thing. 
It's like the Bible: you can use it to say 
anything. Grotowski is the word. He has 
been known in Europe as the leading act-
ing teacher for a few years now, but 
America only really turned on to him 
since his book, Towards a Poor Theater, 
and a tour which was cut short by the 
Czech invasion. 

"The method I'm using in my classes 
is a combination of things taken not only 
from Grotowski but also from Brook, 
O'Horgan, Eugenio Barba, who I worked 
with in Europe, the Becks, Joe Chaikin 
of the Open Theater-all kinds of places. 
Basically, I believe in the theory of acting 
that says you become afraid because you 
run, rather than you run because you're 
afraid. So I always begin with the physical 
before the mental or emotional; the ideal 
is finally to unite all three, which is pretty 
rare. Incidentally, the work done at the 
Esalen Institute is very similar to some of 
my relaxation exercises, and one girl who 
was in my workshop said the exercises we 
did were just like the Reich ian analysis 
she was going through at the time. 

"A good example of something physical 
leading to something emotional is the 
scene we just finished blocking in The 
Bacchae, where the chorus starts to crush 
!he guards against the palace. The people 
10 the chorus approach the guards really 
believing in their bodies that they are go-
ing to crush the guards, and the guards 
actually become frightened as they crouch 
beneath them. Of course, they aren't 
crushed-the action is in the extreme, 
but not carried through to the conclusion. 
But the scene really bas dramatic impact. 

"Another thing I am trying to do in my 
workshop, and it's one of the hardest-! 
try to get rid of the actors' super-egos, and 
maybe even their egos. So many actors are 
on these incredible ego-trips; it comes 
from years of training and learning to 
criticize and evaluate each other. What 
I try to do is to get rid of the built-up ten-
sions and inhibitions in an actor which 
stop him from doing something, rather 
than tell him what be should do." 

Susie Rosenberg, who was pouring 
honey into the tea she had just brought 
from the kitchen, put down her cup and 
stood up. "So you see, with The Cat," she 
said through a Danish accent, "you can 
feel what you can't do. If you can't stand 
on your head, or what. And-" she 
stretched out on the carpet "-when you 
bend your back, you bend it until you can't 
make it go any further, so your lower 
spine, which is really the center of your 
physical energy, becomes really flexible. 
It helps relieve tensions." 

"The idea is to feel with the body and 
to feel the body itself," said Stanley. 
"When I crouch down as far as I can go, 
I can really feel the weight pressing down 
on me. But if I'm standing and someone 
says, 'Don't you feel the pressure of mod-
ern society,' I don't really know what he is 
talking about." 

"Tai Chi, which I've been using with the 
guards, helps you feel this too. It makes 
you feel how heavy your body really is 
and what an effort it is-" he stood up 
"-to stand up." He sat down and smiled. 
"So I don't stand up so much any 
more." 

Unfortunately, Rosenberg and Gregory 
have not had enough time-only six 
weeks-to work with the Bacchae chorus 
and principal actors; it is not unusual for a 
repertory company to work on a produc-
tion for a whole year. Still, in spite of the 
rather frantic rush involved, people in the 
company are excited by what many think 
will be a good production, another attempt 
to take an ancient Greek museum piece 
outside the museum and put it into the 
theater, where it belongs. ::;


**Title: Education in a decent society**
**Author: Robert H. Lynd**
**Page number(s): 8**

81 The New Journal I February 23, 1969 
Fducation in a decent society 
hy hl~·;~r /. h il'ndl'nhcl :' 
I hi\ tllflt /,· "llflrll J,\ t•llt' n/ tilt' f,,,..,,,n/ 
(/1/td\ \(\I'" ·I /1/t'/ (I .J/1 I 1//ff 1//111/1, 1/1 1( I II/I\ 
,,fl,.,, ''' ''''' ''"' ,,, l111• ''' unlu ·II'' J,,,,,f 
f'dfl, '"'''" f,llllltllllt'\ ,,,,. ) '"' ''"""'''' 
1/i:•lt \, /t,,of. tl\ If 1\tJ\ {lft'\1111\/\ ot:,'tl 
lli.-,·d. ll\ ,,,,. o/ tit, (111,.,, ''hoof, for ··,tn 
11til 1111111/::•·r· 1 lu/,f,,.,, II 1· thl•ll!:hrll 
11'<•11/tf 11./tf 1/ 1/1'1'"1'</{11'1 \{11'1 1/1 I' /11 /h1• I Ill/ 
tro1 1'11t1i .\1111:•·' !<1 !'"''· I h11al'li1 /1· ;, 
filii/ "' II ,., "I I •• 11/i; I' ''I .. ,,, . ICulll' ;d s,·lt .. ol 
J<d<>llll. nf1f1·,f for /{,·li/IIU'I//1(//(oflllf,f 
( ;, .. " 
11-/1/," ... ,, f,,. 1'""""1'" "' .\i/1111/1 
1/1/,f ,\, IIIII/<'!' thil [1111. 
1'uhl1l· l.'du,·;ll io11 111 I Ill· I 'nilnl Slale' i' :111 
eJilllllllllh and l'\p;IIHIIIII! l'llll'llll l'l'. ( )n 
all\ g11n1 d.1\ Jl<':~rh a 1hud "I I he l<>l.d 
J'<>plll.llloll 
lo1 d11ldJc11 ;and ··1n·11.1ger,·· 
all' pl'Ppk 
"H'JIIlrnl h1 l.111 lo ;lllnHI 
,cJH•<~I. I here ;Ill''"'" '<lllll' I:' null11•n 
,l,,.l,·nh in puhhl· lurh "·h·" •I' .. uHI ahn111 
d llllllh>ll :111d .1 IJ.df IIIJllll.lk. llldlldlll)! 
dliiJdl .dldl.lll'd. 'l'i.'<ltd.\1 \ "'lh>lll'. l'hl·rt· 
;lie .d>lllll ;~ lllllih'IIJliiJlll' Ill l'il'llll.'lll.lr\ 
,,·IH•<•I'. 
ll11· \Plllll'l'l d J'l''<ln I' Ill I hi' l'lllllllr\, 
pro\ 1dnl h,· 1~:" l11niiPIIV l'll<'llgh h• fini'h 
"'IH•ol ar ;dl. lhl· lllll).!l'r Ill·" lil..l'l\ '" h:l\'e 
h,·,·n l..q•r 11 ,,.h .... l Ju,l "1hird of lhl.' ''"-
dcllh "lt11 l'lllnnl tit lh ).!I ;ad,· in 1'1~(, 
,·,•n•pklcd l11gh wiHH•I. lud:l\. :~houllhrce 
lnllllh' "'I Ill"<'" ho l'llll'l· hllh gr;uk do. 
Jn,IIIIIIH>II' nl I11VIll'l 
••r al ka'l Likr 
nlu,·.ll "'" ;Ill' ,. 'p.uul111g ,.,.,.11 Ll,ll.'J 1 h:111 
puhl"· "·hnnl,. I 'r""'' unlhcir l.!'"wlh 
arc I'""'' In he "'"l,·:11111g. 'inn· i1 is Jllll "' 
ck:11 '' h:1t "a <.'ollq:c ''' 111in·• 'if\. or 
'' '"'''In h,· ,.,,llllll'd ·" .1 c.•llqtl' ,iudcnl: 
h11t tlll'rl' '' "'"r'· f111h lhancomt,,rt in 
till· l.111ili;,r ''""'1\aliPnlh.llll lll>w tal..•·~ 
"nta,l,·r·, dq!rl'l' '" n•nkrlhc :Jcadl'lllic 
di,lllll'th•n P'''''dnl h1 .1 h1gh 'd""'l 
dipi<>Jll;t till\ \l'.ll' ·'!~" 
I h,· ''1""'1' .1re ·""' .111 l'rhllllll>lh 
,l.,r,·d llltl'll''' I IH·r,· .Ill' lllllll'lh:~n a 
null,.,nl'lnncnt.u' "·h·•••l ll'.1chn '· .1nd 
:~hn111 X h11ndn·d lho11,.111d high ,,·Hll•l 
lc.ldll·J,. "·"·l..cd h1 111\r1.1d h•u,·.,tlcr:ll·ic' 
:tlld \lhl.lllll'd "' '"'"'' >l'f\ ,,.,. 'l.df,. 
l••l.1pul•llc '' fl,,,,,,.,, ... udllllll'' '''' I Ill' 
fi,L·.tl \l',ll l'lhlill~~ flllll' \0, l'llo-i, \H'Ie ~S 
lllllll•ll d.•IJ.,,' 
.d•nlll li1e IIIli<'' ·" lfllll.:h 
;" 111 
1'1~11. "Ill' II <'lllnllllll'llt' \\l'l<' a lillk 
ll\l' h;dlllh'll J'l<''l'll! '1/l' l;fll/1 1'1~(1 
ll> l'lh~.l'lltt•l••' 11111 111 p11hll<'cducallllll 
llll'r•··"'·d h1 I \llpl·r,·clll. 1nt.lll '.S. l'lll· 
pi<•\ llll'lll I•\ :tl'lllll 21lpi.'ll't'fl. 
I tlt:tll /. '"···lt'nhnt,•. clllfh,•r ••I l'hc 
Va11i,hlll).! ·\d,,l,.,,.,.lll 111./ ( 
<llllllll~ ••I :\",. 
Ill :\tlll.l'h,:,l. i\-tlf'lc•/t'\\11/ 1•/ ,·dill :I{J1 •fl 
.. 
tllltl \cl( ic•/1':.._'\" t/( rlr.· .\·t.llf' ( 111\'c'l\1/\ f'' 
.\'I'll } ,.,~ "' llll/i•tf,,,,,,t ;, Ill<'-'"''"''"' 
rn/•111• ,, r. • ,;,,. "'''" 't "'" 1~,., '"" "' 
B·••'"' 
ll1" l'\Jl.lll\1<>111'1 llll·,·du,.liiOiliiHIII'-
11 1 '' lll\lllinl h1 '"" "·"''·· "·ld"lll·<fll''' 
lllllll'<l ""liiiiJlllllll'. lll'lllll'l "' \\It idl 
"'''Ill' '<'il-l'\ Hknl. ·1 It,· fir,l "111.11 lllll\l'l 
,,,J. i.'OIIIJllll\lll\ 'l·ho<>l :illl.'i.lni.'l' llllliJ 
l.lll' ;ulllll''l"l'lli.'l' "l'\\l'llli.d '"I he ll>lldlld 
ol ,,.,el\. Allnll•d,·lllllldll,lr 1.tl "'l'll'lll'' 
h,l\l' adoplnl :1 '11111L1· p<~lli.'\ ill rl'llllil ing 
whnnl ;lllcnd;llln'. B111 I hi\ d.,,., IIlli ol 
''"·II ldl•" ''hl'lher "''·h n•111Hil'"'' 
,chnnling 1\ e\'l'llll:d or 111'1 ;q>p;IITIIII} 
ill'Vil;d>k . .-\11 Ill' ,·;Ill ll';dl\ "'Y i\ lh:ll If 
"dlaLil'l'l'll'lll nl 11ndl'111 l1k. like lll'l'-
" ;1\' and'"' ll<>lllll ion. 
l lw '<'l'lld ""IIIIIJliiPII "lhal fnrm.tl 
in,lllli.'llllllln 'dllH'I'' "'llllldlllhlll' 
nl'ndiu;d lolhc ,llllil-111 
alhllthrough 
h111, lo lhl· h>Ld "'''"''' 
lh;lll :~11\ hing 
he nughl arrange fpr h11nwll lh:tl lh,· 
\Lik ")ll'titi,·d in mal..111g il .t nnnin.d 
Plkn'<· l<~r him I•• !.!" aho111 .111 ""'"ll'" 
Ill pk:~,llrl· "' fu, '"' 11 d11111g "·ltn .. l 
hlllll\. 'llw I· due ;at 1011 ( ode c••llll'l' o11 
I he pn•pk \\ !J,, 1111 \cho"i'. "1h llll' rc-
'<>llrl·l', 
irlll'ln;d ;\lid ''\h'r 11al 
"' :11l.d•ll.' 
'" llwnr. 1hc ;ulllh>fll\ II>!'"'"'~''"" lor a 
dl'.;llk or llhll'llll' onh "'" 1111 p:~lh 
l<l\II·d lli'llllr;~llolllh:~l a \tl\11!! Jll'f'<lll 
111:11 tnllow. y,., nn 'dll>tlll·an doiiH>rl· 
than pbn and nrg;uJi/l' cxpcril'lll'l.',, ar-
ranging for S<lllle thing' l•> h:~Jllll'n and 
prn,·nl ing otht"rs fn>111 happl.'ning. 
lllll>llgh till' d:~~s. llhllllh, :111d ~l.':1rs. with 
I Ill· inlcnlll>n of in,lll ing I hal life" ill 
llwrchv hl'n>IIH' IIIOJ<.' 11\lrlldive in "·hm•l 
I han il nHdd h;l\'e hc,·n 111dcr a frl'l'l 
dll 11n· ''' ;dlcrnal i\l''· 
Ill<.' ltlllllilln of the 'dh•oh "lo 
'<K'alll.l' I Ill' yllllllg: and 111 "' d•''"l.t· lhl.'~ 
ddine .. , nu1h" '"a "'""d,·;lll.'g•>IV. '""-
ll'l'l In 'l''''·i;d \llr\'l'illanc,· :111d "''II'IL111. 
II" Llllll'r n.llll' I<>"'"."" nlu,·.lli<~n.d 
1l'lorr11 \\ itiH>lll rl·cngninng lh;ll lh,· 
'"'"'"" .1re. in facl. lhl'ch~d lll,llllllll.'llf 
h1 \\ lu,·h \ o11ng J'<'•'Jlk :~rc "q•l 11 1h,·11· 
pl.ll·l' ;111d h1 \1 luch th:~l pl.ll·,· '' dl'lilll'ol. 
I h,., do• "' "llh th,· lll.llld:~ll' ,,, 1lw .. .1111 
"'<.ll'l\. "l1c·h ,,,,·cph .1nd .1ch 1111 I he 1\\1> 
·"'''''"h•ll' I h.l\l' '"''''.I h,.,,. "d:.nl',·r 
111.11 111 ""'."""1!! hP\\ ,·duc.lll••n lllll'hl ·h,· 
IIIIJ'ol\l'lf \\llhllllhl·llllllhp(lhi,,·lllll'lll 
"'' 1.tl ,·onli.'\1. I n1.11 lll.llhcrlcnlh l'll-
do•l 'l' llhhl' ,1\,IIIJllh>ll' .111d I he dl'fillill<'ll 
<'I \lllllh lhl'\ IIIIJ'h. \\hi,·lt /ll.ll..l'''l'lh 
of \PIIIIg Anwr,,·.lll'. "l.,,.,,h,·ll'". "''h 
1h.11 • 111 ,.,, ti1n1h 111 11111.1. I hell' .Ill' "'llll' 
'".b.l!l''lh'll'l'n llt.l"-in~~ the '"-·luh~l-.. llh'l"'.' 
llc\hk. lnnll.llll' .11.! it/\1111 111 ,· 1h.11 .\1<' 
"••llh l'<lll'idl'llllg .llllllh;al :ill' Ill 1.1<1 
lllldl'l ,-,,n,i.kr.ill<lll h1 Jll'f''lll' \\ 11h ;1 
"'''''''''ll.d lllll'Jl'\l Ill i.'dlll'.lll•'" "' lhl' 
J'll''l'lll llnll' 
l·ir,l. ''"'knh 11iglll he .111'""'" '" .11 
lend .111 "·h·•••lthl'\ ,·h''"'· ,·,llh'l ;ll ,r.1r,· 
l'\Jll'll'<' olf' lllllkr .I fi\Cd 'l.lll' '1"''11\ 
1h.11 lhl'\ o>r tlh'll p.:ll'lll' ,.,,,1!,1 .lll!~llll'lll 
tl lh:~..·~,·,,.tr \ -"''"ll' ('h'(ll'ttt·nt ... ,,1 tltt' .1p 
l''''.ll.:h ttr;:'--· tit,.- .tl''''''h'll ,,f tl11.· l'ld'lt~._· 
''-'"''''' ,, ,fl.'lll ,j, 'l"--'h Hill I ft,, '''l'llh {,,,, 
.. lr.t ... tr....· .til ~h."ll~'ll r,,r '' IJ.!I 11 "~'t!ld .t~..· ... :~''''+ 
"'''h.'''"'"\.' lllt..l'( pll''''"' ,,.,h''''' \\tlllld 
'''lll'h h,t\4..' Ill l...·.tr 11 r,, .._,~,\,.· 1 .ttf..' .. '''11 
Jll'II(J\l.'l\ ,l, J'll\,tll' , ... ."lh 1'''' 111 ''ldl·f hl 
rill th,· ,J.-nund ''''I'J.1,,., 11:11d "'''''t\ ,,,. 
:.:.tilt~.' _L'I.t'l' the hl~..·.t rh.1t, ,,,,p~· p ... ·,,,,,l. 
111~ht J,l. "''Ill;-' '''l!h."thrtl~,.-,llllt...'h .. l,tl,·r 
t...'ll( 111.111 ~~1. 1 !! 1 ~~ j,, ,..._·ill 11. 1! 
\\ !tt .. -11 \\ 1.'11!,{ 
l.t~,· ' .. ·.tr' \ !.. .. ·,, dJ.t'l 11 .. · •• .-ll.tll~'f..' ,q,··ht t,,,. 
11.~.,1,· b\ ..._·,,r1lt!llllll~ ,', '• ,,-/'''~'I'''' I,,! th .. · 
t'IJI'IJ....' ''-·lh''''" 1'11 .~''1,:-~tl!JI;,~ tltl.' '-l.~!t...' ,,,,! 
ltt:~,~ ... Jhl\\ .tJ!,,~r....-,1 ... ,,, tfll' ''·1"1' ,,, .1\i..'l.t~·~.· 
d.11h ~tlh.'lh.i.tn .... ·~...·t,, t!l~..· -..~..·h,,,,, pui'J!, .t..._.,· 
li.dh .-h''"' ,,, .llll'ild 
lllc'llldlll,: .•• , 
1..'\llll'-l'. th~o.'lf pt11 1 1J,· ,,.,","''If thl'\ '''''h'd 
,,, ll'lll.llll !her,·. 
( llll' "'"liJIIL'Ill '"ivanced ;1g:~in'>l I hi' 
pl.t1l '' lh.11 \\ lllk-r;ll·i,t p:~rl'llh \\OIIId 11\C 
11 lo :~dlll'H' d1· I•~< to 'cgn·g:~lion. Bul I 
1111~ 111," llli,l:~h·n. \VItal" hire p:~renh 
lin·'" I Ill· 'uln11 h, In avoid. I :1111 con-
''""'·.!. """'negro children hul I he often 
dnn<~J.dl;nl ;111d llL'CI'ionallv hnrlal pl.'r-
'""'"·1 "ho have h,·l.'n ,.,,ignl.'d lo 
or 
pt'llllllll'd lu :~ccunHIIall.' in 
'uch -;chooh 
:11.! !Ill· ;lllli"'Jlhl'rl.' of ho,tilily :111d cnn-
lnnpl '"' 'llltknls lh;at pcrvadl'' thl.'lll. 
I ndl'a" ''''IIIOI adequall'lv suhsidit.ed 
free du•1n· lh,· hl;,cl,. 'llllknh. surl'lv. 
v.ould """''· luo. unks' I heir school he-
l':lllll' ;1 d,·,·nl pl;•,·c. Blal'k pcoplc have 
nuprl'f,·r,·n~,·,· for h;llf ,cJHil•ls when they 
arl· ;tfl',•rdnllh~· mean' ll> alll.'nJ helll.'r 
on,·, 
I he pr11por1ion of lhe rdativdy 
\lll:tll gr• •up of 111 iddk-cl ;,s, nq:roes who 
\l'nd lhl'ir ,·hildrcnlo pri\alc schools i' 
f.11 high,·r tiL1l lh,· prop,,r11on of middle-
,·1."' '' l111l.'' "ho d,l "'· But lh,· ll"' of the 
lin;lllcl.ll 'upport from the stall.' that their 
"1 hdr."' .d "''uld <lL'Cl'i'm is ;1 pnwl.'rf ul 
"llll'II<Hl again'! schools whil.'h mistrl.'al 
1 hem. 

Anolhcr device for incrca~ing fkxihility 
of cdueal~<•nalnpportunity. which '''mid 
rl·quire Jc,, adminislrativc rl.'vision but 
nughl l'ncounter greater resistance from 
ho'l ik adult\. v. ould be for the school to 
undnlakl· tulin'IISI' off-premise eduea-
1 ion a I pn•jl'l'ls. SluJents might then sub-
mil cilhn a proposal for independent 
\IIIli\ ,,,. an application to parlicipatc in 
an ongoing l'\lramural projel.'t: if ap-
pro\ nl. I hi' v. ouiJ f rl.'c t hl.'m of attend-
.llll'C rl.'qUII'l.'lllcnts for the duration of 
tlwir prPil'l'l. They might, like granthoiJ-
l'r\. lw ,-,·qui red to submit regular p rogress 
rq•orh fllf ,•v;duation; they might also be 
r,·quirnlln report semiannually to test-
n·nll.'l' in •>rder to lkmonstrate that thev 
\\l'll' lc;~rn1ng lhl' h:1sic curriculum sali-
Lil'••r ill de,pJI,· their absence from 
"'·""''· Dm1ng thi, period they should 
:~1,,, h.11,· .H.'l''" to I he facilitil.'s anJ staff 
••lrh,· \dll>ol '"·in l'lfcl'l. rl',eareh con-
'uiLuJ!>. I he d11lJCult~ '' ith this plan. 
'"" c1er. "rh.ll on.: of the rn:~j,•r func-
''''n' •'' rh,· 'dll'<'l i' h1 kel.'p 'lu,knts off 
rh,· '"l'l'h .md <HII of the wav of adults 
"h·• r,·.dh "fl•"' 4uill.' wdl ,·hat suhmi'-
'ion 1<• "·h,,,,l r,•lllmcs. rathl.'r lhan the 
''''lllll<'.t ,.,,"'''! \l!ldv. isv.hal con-
,111111,·, ''"' "·"'"" c"liiTic~rlum. Thl.'TC IS, 
"'""'''''· '"''"";~ground tilL' fad thai ell/\' 
''~~lllfi,·:llll IIIIJ'I"' eml·nt of edu,·at i,lnal 
1''',, 1111\l rl'lkcl a cnrrcsponding irn-
1'''''''111<'111 111 rhc rl'lative status of \'lllllh 
111 '"'''''' .111d "illlh,-rl.'f<,rl' alfrnni rh,"e 
.1111' \\ h,, .. ,. lll'l'"' drl• e\Jlfl'SSl.'d in 
J'f ~.- ...... ·Ill lh IIJ~o.'\


**Page number(s): 9**

91 The New Journal I February 23, 1969 
A much more ambitious proposal now 
: ,· •ng '' iddy con,rdcrcd is that ''holly 
i"'"lrdy 'upport~·d rc,idcnti;d schools he 
, '-Lthli,hcd, ~·,rwcially for ... wdenh whose 
i><>rm·s prll\ide neither the quiet and priv-
·"·' nor the basil.' nutrition and rest needed 
'''' 'tudy or. \dJat i' more important. for 
c·tlth and a decent life. T hi' is ;rtantaliz-
"'f! quc ... tion. T he drawback' ;trc wrious 
c·nnugh. For one thing. this pn1posal as-
'"'lll''> that our society cannot or will not 
.II l.•ck its cconnmic problems r;tdically 
''"'ugh to diminate the ~h1m' and provide 
,,,.,·,nt accomnHllbtion for the people 
11 .•ppnl there -whether or not they fit n 
"''·i;d-workcr's Cl•nccption

**Title: your hairdresser owesforsure**
**Author: George Kannar**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10 I The New Journal I February 23, 1969 
"lRe air was unusually heavy and warm 
ltor early New England summer as Jimmy 
Miller began to close up one of several 
beauty shops he owned in and around 
Milford, Connecticut. Suddenly nine fed-
eral agents and state policemen entered his 
shop and arrested him as a member of the 
nation's largest heroin ring, a ring which 
had imported an estimated 150 million 
dollars worth of heroin in a period of 
two months. The narcotics agents charged 
Miller with receiving two shipments of 
heroin the previous summer, in August 
of J 963. 

Jimmy Miller was brought to trial in 
May, 1966. The primary evidence against 
him was the eyewitness testimony of a 
convicted heroin smuggler who claimed to 
have seen Miller for fifteen minutes, 
almost three years earlier. Miller was con-
victed on the basis of this testimony and 
was sentenced to twelve years in prison 
without possibility of parole. Before and 
during the trial Miller repeatedly claimed 
that he was innocent, and he still says so 
today. 

Steven Duke, professor of criminal law 
at the Yale Law School, was approached 
to write a brief for Miller's appeal in 1966. 
In the course of his investigations, Duke 
found evidence that the government had 
denied Miller a fair trial. Yet the appeal, 
on the basis of his new evidence, was de-
nied; and Professor Duke, convinced of 
Miller's evidence, has devoted the last two-
and-a-half years to prove the government's 
mistake and win Miller a new trial. 

Duke believes thereat criminal to be a 
small-time Mafia hireling named Mario 
Natalizio. According to Duke, Natalizio 
was involved in the smuggling deal be-
cause he had graciously provided cover for 
two known fugitive gunmen, Anthony 
"Bootsie" DePasqua and Rosario Ippolito, 
in his Miami apartment. His reward was 
to go to Bridgeport and receive two heroin 
shipments for a cut of five thousand dol-
lars each. Duke's private investigators 
have four confessions from Natalizio ad-
mitting that it was he, not Miller, who 
received the shipment; but when the 
federal government called Natalizio be-
fore a grand jury, he disowned the confes-
sions, insisting that he had been forced to 
sign one of them at gunpoint, and made 
the others as a joke. 

Beyond Natalizio's grand jury testi-
mony, which Duke dismisses as being 
totally untrue, other evidence has ap-
peared which the lawyer feels can prove 
Miller's innocence. Nevertheless, he has 
been unable to get the federal courts to 
re-open the case. 

Among the new evidence, Professor 
Duke has a statement by the admitted head 
of the narcotics ring, Lucien Rivard, a 
French Canadian now serving a term at 
the federal prison in Lewisberg, Pennsyl-
vania. Rivard maintains that he had never 
heard of Miller and that the eyewit-
ness whose testimony convicted Miller 
was simply not telling the truth. That one 
eyewitness was Michel Caron, another 
convicted heroin smuggler, who was 
picked up in Texas on October of 1963. 
Caught returning from Mexico with a 
car full of heroin, Caron immediately 
turned state's evidence and began rattling 
off the names of other members of the 
ring. Jimmy Miller's name was not among 
those he named. But Caron did give a 
description of the pick-up man at Bridge-
port, whom he knew only as "Frank," a 
description which did not fit Miller at all, 
but which fit Natalizio almost perfectly. 

Books full of photographs were sent to 
Texas so that Caron could try to pick out 
the Bridgeport contact; he initially chose 
a picture of a man named Anthony Man-
cuso, but later he changed his mind and 
picked Miller's picture. According to 
Miller and Duke, from that point on the 
government officials never allowed Caron 
to doubt his choices. Caron went to the 
trial and testified against Miller, picking 
him out without hesitation and convinc-
ing the jury, which then convicted Miller. 

Duke completely discredits Caron's 
testimony on the basic legal question of 
Caron's "eyewitness" testimony. Not only 
is Caron a convicted heroin smuggler, but 
Duke discovered that he had been hypno-
tized inexpertly and illegally before the 
trial by a United States Attorney in Texas. 
Duke contends this hypnosis influenced 
the witness's judgment, persuading him 
that Miller was the one the officials wanted 
him to identify, and made him believe it 
so firmly that even after he came out of the 
trance he "knew" that Miller was the one. 

Duke's theory is supported by several 
prominent psychiatrists. Nevertheless, 
The United States Federal Court decided 
not to grant a new trial on the basis of 
the psychiatric evidence against the 
testimony of the chief witness. 

According to Professor Duke, the hyp-
nosis is considered new evidence because 
the government did not disclose it prior 
to or during the trial. In fact the chief 
prosecutor, Jon Newman, seemingly did 
not even know about it at the time of the 
trial, and has since expressed some doubt 
about Miller's guilt. It was not discovered, 
says Duke, until two years after the trial. 
"We asked Caron to submit to a psychia-
tric examination. He said he would but 
only if we agreed to pay him five hundred 
dollars. We agreed. When he came to the 
examination the doctor said 'Relax, we're 
going to hypnotize you.' He asked him if 
he knew what 'hypnotize' meant. Being a 
French Canadian who spoke little English, 
he said he didn't know what they meant. 
The doctor began to explain, and suddenly 
Caron exclaimed, 'Oh sure. Mr. (United 
States Attorney) Butler did that to me in 
jail in Texas.' Well I almost had a fit.'' 

According to Duke, the government 
possibly has an emotional commitment to 
Jimmy Miller's guilt and conviction. 
Miller says newspapermen and photo-
graphers were on the scene at the time of 
the arrest, indicating they had been 
tipped off by publicity-hungry govern-


--- Page 11 ---

ment officials. The announcement of 
Miller's arrest came from the office of At-
torney General Robert Kennedy, and ac-
cording to the New York Daily News, 
which ran the arrest as front page news, 
Miller was clearly part of "World Dope 
Ring No. 1." In what Duke insists is an 
amazingly biased and inaccurate account, 
the News claimed that Miller was in fact 
the "Frankie" to whom Caron had de-
livered the heroin in Bridgeport. The story 
went further, declaring that Jimmy 
Miller's real name was "Frank Coppola," 
disregarding his birth certificate, marriage 
license and driver's license. 

Duke complains that "Coppola" sounds 
better than "Miller" when Cosa Nostra 
cases are being covered; apparently the 
United States agreed, for it tried MiJier as 
"Frank James Coppola, also known as 
J.ames Miller." The Coppola incident is 
just one example of the "tactics" which the 
government has employed in convicting 
Miller. Duke insists, "The law enforce-
ment machinery of this country is such 
that once the government zeroes in on 
someone, that is it. The machinery is in-
capable of taking a fresh look at the situa-
tion; once the government indicted Jimmy 
Miller, it had locked itself in." 

Miller is understandably more forceful 
in the condemnation of what he calls "Mr. 
Government": "With the tactics they have 
used against me they could have con-
victed General Eisenhower of smuggling 
narcotics.'' For in addition to the hyp-
nosis question, Miller complains of the 
behavior of federal agents investigating 
the case. He says that at one point the 
agents found out that the wife of a busi-
ness associate was seeing another man. 
"The agents said they'd see that she made 
front-page news unless she cooperated 
with them. They even threatened to take 
away her daughter. So she gave in and said 
she'd cooperate. 

"The agents told her to deny her hus-
band bedroom privileges," Miller con-
tinues, "keeping him awake with the story 
of how she saw this Cosa Nostra nar-
cotics smuggler in the beauty shop. Then 
after about a week of this harassment the 
agents were going to show up at the bouse, 
show her husband a picture of the man, 
and she was going to say to her husband, 
'See, that's the one I asked you about. Re-
member?' And what could the guy do? He 
would have to say yes. Fortunately, I hap-
pened to drop in one afternoon, and she 
panicked and admitted it all." 

"We complained about that, and all they 
said was the agent was a little 'overzeal-
ous.' 'Overzealous!' Why, if defense coun-
sel ever used those tactics, he'd find him-
self in jail. And the government did not 
even remove the agent from the case. Since 
the arrest his salary has increased from 
nine thousand to seventeen thousand dol-
lars. He gets all the promotions, all the 
credit. He's still on the case today." 

Martin Abramson, author of The Bar-
ney R oss Story and The AI Jolson Story, 
has written a movie scenario based on the 
Miller case, adding a happy ending, in 
anticipation of the justice he thinks must 
ultimately come. But Jimmy Miller's 
whole story is unfortunately like anum-
ber of movie scenarios that came out of 
Hollywood during the depression years. 
Miler was an orphan who, according to 
Duke, grew up as much in the gutter as in 
the orphanage. He was something of a 
street fighter, later did some prize fighting; 
and in the army he was battalion boxing 
champion. "As soon as I was old enough, 
I signed up for the service to go over and 
fight. I was gung-ho, my country right or 
wrong. When I used to read the paper 
about some guy getting arrested by the 
federal government, I guess I reacted just 
like everyone else. I figured the govern-
ment would never arrest someone unless 
he was guilty. Even in my case, I saw the 
government as just making a mistake. The 
prosecutor isn't to blame, and I don't 
think this is in any way a frame. It's just 
that so many careers are committed to my 
guilt." 

Back in 1948 Miller was arrested for a 
misdemeanor. He was twenty-two years 
old and just out of the Navy; and when the 
policeman asked him his name, he said, 
"Here's my driver's license." The license 
was that of his friend, Frank Coppola, a 
member of the New Haven Fire Depart-
ment. Miller was booked under the name 
"Frank Coppola" at the time, and when 
federal officials heard that Caron was 
looking for a man named "Frank" they 
naturally sent along Miller's photograph 
to Texas. 

But there were other reasons for send-
ing Miller's photo through. Miller was 
known to hang out with a few minor un-
derworld figures in the Bridgeport area, 
mostly gamblers and bookies. Miller ad-
mits to having "played the horses," and 
to having a bit of reputation as a success-
ful crap shooter. 

As far as his underworld friends are 
concerned, Miller says: "I don't condone 
the things they do, but in some cases I can 
sympathize with them. One of my biggest 
hang-ups is the 'There but for the grace of 
God go I' thing. I grew up with these peo-
ple, and even though I've managed to 
escape that environment I've never been 
able to look down on those who didn't. But 
I can't sympathize with narcotics peddlers 
and their sort; I just can't stand people 
who live off the misery of others. 

· "And that's another thing that has me 
mad about my case. By convicting me and 
considering the case closed the govern-
ment has given the actual narcotics ring a 
free license to go ahead and continue 
their trade. I'm enough of a business man 
to guess their trade hasn't declined in the 
last four years. If anything, it has probably 
grown, and the government isn't doing 
anything about it. 

"But I'm just not going to turn my 
back on the kind of people I grew up with. 
Before my son was born six years ago, I 
used to go down to New Haven every 
Thanksgiving and Christmas, pick up all 
the derelicts I could find and take them 
home for a good meal and some clean 
clothes. Then I'd give each of them a 
couple of bucks and take them home. 
Even today I always spend Christmas Eve 
over at the Highland Heights orphanage. 
If anything, my case is one of guilt by as-
sociation, but I am just not going to turn 
my back on those people." 

When Miller was discharged from the 
service with his "share of medals and all," 
he attended hairdresser's school under the 
GI bill. He met his wife there, and after 
graduation they opened up their first 
beauty shop, consisting of one chair and 
two dryers. Total investment: four hun-
dred dollars. Today things are a lot better. 
Miller now has seventeen people working 
for him and bas formed, in partnership 
with his employees, small corporations to 
manage half a dozen branch shops. 

Miller is an artist, and his shops are 
decorated with his paintings, which range 
from an impressionistic seascape to a 
pointillist approach to the United Nations 
Building in New York. "You know, it's the 
strangest thing. At one point when I 
thought of being a professional painter, I 
couldn't sell a thing; as soon as I opened 
my shop and hung my paintings in it, the 
customers started making bids. I've al- · 
ways thought I could do a good painting 
of a courtroom. I'd do everything in black 
and grey. I guess that's because of the 
way I feel about all that sort of thing now." 

In the first years after Miller's arrest his 
business fell off by seventy-five percent. 
·Only now, after four years, has it recov-
ered. Yet Miller cannot go into his own 
shops during the day because it upsets his 
customers; he says they know he isn't 
guilty, but they would rather not see him. 
Since he can't go into the shops during the 
daytime, Miller goes in at night and 
teaches his employees business administra-
tion courses so they can eventually manage 
their own shops. During the day he sits at 
home thinking up new angles on the case 
and preparing his lessons for the night-
time classes. For two and a half years he 
kept a journal in which he wrote down all 
his comings and goings minute by minute 
in case he was ever called upon to account 
for them. Even today he never travels 
alone; when he visits Duke at the Law 
School, he has a friend follow him as a 
witness. 

Jimmy Miller has a lot of friends. At 
one point he was called upon to post a two 
hundred thousand dollar bond, and 
twenty-eight of his friends put up their 
homes as collateral. Miller himself has had 
to sell his home, move in with his mother-
in-law and sell his car to help cover ex-
penses. Miller's son Jimmy, a six-year-old, 
has trouble in school and emotional prob-
lems at home because schoolmates say, 
"Your daddy sells pills that kill people." 
And Miller's wife is under a doctor's care. 

Steven Duke occupies a smaJJ office on 
the second floor of the Sterling Law Build-
ing, his secretary hidden somewhere far 
down the hall. Duke's desk is buried under 
an avalanche of documents on the Miller 
case; the transcript of the first trial fills one 
entire shelf along the wall, and clippings 
from newspapers fill several drawers. 

Although the Miller case has occupied 
much of his time for the past thirty 
months, Duke tries to keep it separate 
from his classes in criminal law and the ad-
versary system. "I've used some students 
for investigators and researchers," he 
admits, "but I've tried to keep it out of 
the classroom. Most of the fifteen students 
who have done work on the case at one 
point or another have just stopped by my 
office and offered to help." 

The professor's involvement with the 
case, involving long hours and consider-
able expense, has also come without 
promise or expectation of reward. He esti-
mates that he has traveled at least fifty 
thousand miles to turn up new evidence 
in the case; for example, be has flown 
to Miami (a prime Costa Nostra hangout 
these days) nearly a dozen times, seeking 
clues to help him identify the real smug-
gler, and has frequently been followed 
while he is there. According to Miller, who 
says, "You just wouldn't believe how 
brave the guy is," Duke just walks up to 
mob types and says, "Hey, I'm Jimmy 
Miller's lawyer. He's taking a bum rap. 
Are you going to let an innocent mao go to 
prison?" 

continued on page 14


**Title: Confessions of a graduate student who is fed up with other graduate students**
**Author: Leo Ribuffo**
**Page number(s): 12**

Confessions of a graduate student 
who is fed up with other graduate students 
by Leo Ribuffo 

Like the fluffy schmoo in AI Capp's c.,toons, the 
graduate student is among the most docile of crea-
tures. He passively endures levels of boredom and 
aggression which justly infuriate waitresses, bar· 
keeps or assistant professors. Indeed, like the schmoo, 
the graduate student often appreciates abuse--par-
ticularly when offered by superiors--as a sign of 
affection. Given these circumstances, I •m delighted 
that the Yale Daily News has devoted a weekend 
supplement to a kind of post-graduate kvetch-schrift. 
Doug Lackey, • philosophy student, discussed "Life 
and Death in the Graduate School"; William A. Henry, 
Ill, suggested "What's Wrong in the Drama School"; 
Jim Swiss dissected Art and Architecture; and Jeffrey 
Romoff explained the " 'Nice' Revolution in Political 
Science." These four pieces explored important prob-
lems, and they offered useful proposals for institu-
tional adjustments. Nevertheless, each of the articles 
is u significant for its omissions as for its deliberate 
recommendations. Lackey, Henry, Swiss and Romoff 
do not examine the basic problem-the student him-
self and his unimaginative approach to "graduate 
training." 

leo Ribuffo, a graduate student in American studies, 
is a contributing editor of The New Journal. 

Before I offer my dissenting opinion, let me em· 
phasize that I am not a scab, that I am not in the pay 
of Dean Onat and that I do not oppose revolutions--
nice or otherwise-in graduate education. Rather, I 
believe that post-college programs in humanities and 
social sciences are about as essential to the develop-
ment of learning as the moss crawling up Sterling 
Library; it would have been a small loss, as Edmund 
Wilson has suggested, if the Ph.D. had been abolished 
as a Germanic barbarism during those patriotic years 
when erudite men shunned st~uerkraut and ate "lib-
erty cabbage." Indeed, if colleagues ever hoist the 
black flag over HGS, I shall happily donate my copies 
of Summerhill and Growing Up Absurd to the revolu-
tionary library. 

Furthermore, let me repeat with gusto the frequent, 
futile grad-student complaints about Yale. For all the 
Newsweek hoopla about this university's bold experi-
mentation (e.g., Afro-American Studies), Yale is an-
achronistic in many ways-an Edith Wht~rton institu-
tion in a Saul Bellow world. Decades of inbreeding 
have infected Yale with a kind of intellectual hemo-
philia, complicated by • myopic incapacity to perceive 
its own ills. Within this depressing overall situation, 
the grad student is a second class citizen, and Mr. 
Lackey et. al. rightly demand the familiar institutional 
reforms. Clearly, Yt~le University-not only the grad 
school-needs more women, and everyone could 
use a student union. Lackey correctly asks for degree 
requirements which make some sense and are ad· 
ministered with some humanity. Moreover, grad 
students should be encouraged to teach, and they 
should be paid decently for their instruction; with 
care and imagination, the appointment of more teach-
ing fellows in Yale College could in fact raise the level 
of instruction. 

Women, financial grants, student unions and teach-
ing jobs are nice things to have, and I endorse pro-
posals which make all of them available. The presence 
or absence of these things, however, does not define 
"life and death in the graduate school." After all, 
graduate work is much the same mora~s at Northwest-
ern, where buxom honeys abound. Nor is the situa-
tion less gloomy at Cornell, despite seven-count 
the m, seven-student centers. The fundamental 
problem, one which cannot be alleviated by institu-
tional tinkering, is that most graduate students ac· 
cept-.and sometimes evangelize-the stuffier mores 
of the academic marketplace and the more preten· 
tious cant of the professorial pecking order. 

Notwithstanding the fears of Senatorial investi· 
gators, academic folks are not likely revolutionaries. 
The professor who writes a letter to the Times de· 
manding "Immediate Cessation of the Immoral War 
in Vietnam," will explain to his students that the 
creation of a new course is a complex matter, requir· 
ing time and study, committees and leaves of ab· 
sence. The professor who signs a petition calling 
the President a monster and the Congress a bevy of 
morons, is less able to discern that his dean is a 
bungler of the first magnitude. The professor who 
writes monographs about George Wallace and work-
ing-class authorit•rianism will complain that he must 
talk to undergraduates nine hours each week--a con-
ception of toil which might astonish the mechanic 
who greases his car or the janitor who sweeps his 
office. Simply put, my point is that professors, like 
most mortals, are not especially aware of their im· 
plicit assumptions about their own roles, occupations 
or privileged institutions. Nor are they particularly 
interested in re.examining those assumptions; our 
generation, after all, has witnessed distinguished 
scholars at Columbia whose analysis of their univer· 
sity's troubles consisted of misplaced analogies to the 
Weimar Republic. 

**The Apprentice Professors**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
13 I The New Journal I February 23, 1969 
The apprentice professors in grad school, like the 
more established folk who teach them, live by their 
unexamined values. More often than not, the grad-
uate student's assumptions indicate levels of timidity, 
smugness and pedantry that would amaze his in-
structors. After Bonnie McGregor had written her 
famous comment on women at Yale (NJ Nov. 3, '68), 
a half do:z:en grad students told me that since "you 
work for the New Journa I, you must know this 
McGregor person and what's wrong with her any-
way?" For these questioners, my reply that nothing 
was wrong with her only implied that something 
was wrong with me too. 

The basic principle of the grad-student faith is a 
pious respect for the academic pecking order. There 
are "good graduate schools" and "bad graduate 
schools," and students at a good place, like Yale, are 
better than people at those other places. There are 
also "good colleges" and "bad colleges," with lots of 
"undistinguished colleges" wallowing between. One 
attends a "good graduate school" to secure a teach-
ing appointment at a "good college." American aca-
demics stretches out like a medieval Great Chain of 
Being, and it's all quite simple except in years when 
a good job is hard to find. After visiting the American 
Historical Association convention, I reported to some 
of my peers that this year a job at the University of 
Maryland was considered a choice position. Although 
they knew little about Maryland's history department, 
my colleagues were incredulous at the thought of 
teaching in it: the main complaint seemed to be that 
the undergraduates at Maryland enjoyed themselves. 

In another instance, I have tried to explain that the 
American historian whom I most admire, William 
Appleman Williams, has left the University of Wis-
consin to teach at Oregon State. This removal, how-
ever, only convinced these scholars that Williams is 
as cra:z:y as Oscar Handlin says he is. 

Doug Lackey complains that faculty members ue 
obsessed with the notion that "Standards are to be 
Maintained in the Field," but graduate students ue no 
less concerned about the purity of their disciplines. 
There are few creatures more wrathful than the Ph.D. 
candidate who loses a place in seminar to an M.A.T.; 
after all, he is going to extend the boundaries of 
knowledge while she will only teach a bunch of kids. 

A bright and liberal grad student once explained to 
me that because I belonged to the American Studies 
Department, I wasn't a real historian, but somebody 
who "sits around and reads novels." No ·one is more 
concerned about Maintaining Standards than the typi-
cal teaching fellow; not only is he cheap with 
"honors," but he incessantly mutters that the Yalies 
don't live the "life of the mind" like they did at 
Alma Mater. 

Contentious and lively B. A.s who enter grad 
school are acculturated very rapidly. Student influ-
ence is at least as important as the faculty's. The 
tweed jackets and the clickclickclick of attache cases 
does something to you. Graduate students soon for-
get that people who aren't professors sometimes do 
worthwhile things. When a good student leaves in 
disgust or despair, everyone asks, "But what will he 
do?" lt doesn't seem possible that an intelligent per-
son could fill teeth, practice law, write novels, com-
pose music, play the trumpet or search out forest fires. 

Leaving graduate school, one falls off the edge of 
the life of the mind, thence to be devoured by cops, 
cab drivers and Iowa State pom-pom girls. 

The saddest aspect of grad students is their lack 
of whimsy. Out of perversity I have sometimes 
treated my seminars to eccentric historical or literary 
interpretations. I wanted to provoke something. My 
colleagues merely frown at these weird ideas--then 
write them down, in case they represent some new 
historiographic school which might come up on orals. 

While discussing the " 'Nice' Revolution," Jeffrey 
Romoff tells us that the grad students formed a com-
mittee "to solicit and collate new ideas and ap-
proaches in political science." The goal is worthy, but 
the method sounds so somber. I wonder if Bentham 
and Mill ever thought to solicit Adam Smith and 
Ricardo? Did Marx solicit and Engels collate the 
Young Hegelians? 

Richard Hofstadter--no radical he--has suggested 
that the intellectual is both pious and playful in his 
response to ideas. The intellectual greatly values 
ideas for their innate worth, but he possesses "some-
thing to prevent [piety] from being exercised in an 
excessively rigid way;" he feels "sheer delight in 
intellectual activity." Unfortunately, with all that piety 
and very little play, graduate students may well be-
come dull boys and stilted intellects. : 


**Hairdresser**
**Page number(s): 14**

141 The New Journal I February 23, 1969 
Hairdresser 
continued from page 11 
Duke knows of no other case in history 
in which hypnosis was secretly used by 
the prosecution on its witness; Miller talks 
about brainwashing and hypnosis as if 
they were the same, but according to the 
psychiatrist, there is a "slight" difference 
in this case. Legally, Duke regards the 
whole affair as bizarre. "When and if the 
facts are ever acknowledged, this case 
could rank with Sacco and Vanzetti, or 
Sam Shephard, with two signal differ-
ences: (1) There is no apparent reason why 
the United States Government should 
want to gang up on Jimmy Miller; (2) the 
evidence of innocence here is positively 
overwhelming." 

Duke has written letters to the Solicitor 
General, who replied by form letter, and 
to Attorney General Ramsey Clark, who 
didn't reply at all. He has had Miller take 
polygraph and truth serum tests, both of 
which Miller passed. 

MilJer has more than one lawyer work-
ing on his case. A public affairs group in 
Milford named itself the Committee for 
Justice after Miller's conviction. It has 
helped pay his legal expenses as well as the 
cost of hiring private investigators to 
track Natalizio. For the first trial, Miller 
hired well-known trial lawyer Percy 
Forman, who had a hand in Jack Ruby's 
defense and who also successfully de-
fended Candy Mossier. Forman charged 
Miller only seven thousand five hundred 
dollars, although rumor had the price at 
fifty thousand. Duke estimates that Miller 
has spent between seventy and eighty 
thousand dollars in his own defense. 

Steven Duke was approached by the 
Committee to write a scholarly brief for 
the first appeal, but he says, "The more I 
learned about the case, the more I became 
convinced that it was a question of mis-
taken identity. I got involved and I started 
from scratch." Duke is no financial burden 
on Miller since he works without a fee. 
"Maybe I just don't like to give up on a 
fight, but I know the guy is innocent. And 
I have never had an innocent client who 
was not ultimately acquitted. 

"This case gives the lie to the argument 
that the criminally accused gets all the 
breaks. The courts reverse one decision in 
fifty, and if the 'Organized Crime' label 
is attached, they reverse one in a hundred. 
"In the courts today, the cards are still 
stacked very much against the defendent. 
Basically it is because the government has 
the resources and because the trial is a 
matter of surprise; the defense doesn't 
know what the prosecution is going to 
present, and often the jurors tend to as-
sume the defendant is guilty. And if the 
government wants to convict someone, it 
will, no matter how long it takes-
look 
at Jimmy Hoffa." 

Duke maintains that if the Miller case 
had been one of robbery or murder, the 
Natalizio confession and the questions 
raised in the procedure of Miller's trial 
would have been sufficient to gain a retrial. 
"The problem centers on the fact that 
the federal government doesn't usually 
make a mistake in a narcotics case, 
especially in the massive research neces-
sary to get at 'Organized Crime.' When 
they spend a quarter of a million dollars, 
the investment is too great to let the whole 
case go down the drain. 

"The second factor is the extraordinary 
publicity that pressured the government 
from the beginning. The newspapers were 
told that the top narcotics smuggler in the 
country had been apprehended and that 
Miller was the central figure in the biggest 
international dope conspiracy ever un-
covered. 

"Even though the evidence showed that 
whoever was guilty was only part of a 
small-time operation, the government had 
committed itself. And it is so difficult to 
convict the big racketeers in general that 
the government was emotionally and 
psychologically committed to making any 
conviction stick." 

The big publicity splash had committed 
everyone from Attorney General Robert 
Kennedy's office on down. Duke explains 
that the more mistakes that are uncovered 
in a conviction, the more the higher courts 
feel "that there must have been a reason 
for getting this guy." And the appeal 
courts generally try to keep their hands 
off narcotics conspiracy cases, anyway. 

"In a case labeled 'Organized Crime,' 
with all the publicity of Mafia influence in 
politics and government, the rumors of 
mob influence and bribery run wild. The 
people who believe Miller is innocent 
accuse the federal agents and judges of 
yielding to pressure; the people who are 
sympathetic to Miller are accused of being 
on the mob payroll. In fact, people say the 
Cosa Nostra is paying me to get Miller 
off, which is absurd." 

The significant pressure on Steven 
Duke is one of time and energy. The total 
involvement in the Miller case has been 
both a financial and professional burden. 
"Part of the problem," Duke explains, 
"is that my classroom preparation has 
suffered. 1 haven't had any time to absorb 
all the implications, the theoretical con-
siderations that we usually talk about in 
the classroom. 

"I try to keep the case as a case out of 
my courses; but the things that I have 
learned and tries to express in class are 
important. All of my direct experience as 
a criminal lawyer has been in defending 
indigents, the run-of-the-mill criminal 
case. This is the staple problem for schol-
ars and teachers, although it hasn't been 
adequately dealt with in the classroom by 
any means. But the Miller case has the 
whole new perspective of big Justice De-
partment politics, of 'Organized Crime' 
and of big courtroom publicity. And the 
lesson learned is that the rules of the game, 
the rules the Supreme Court lays down, 
have almost no impact on a decision." 

Duke relates his courtroom-academic 
conflict to the larger questions of purpose 
being raised in the Law School. Some stu-
dents and faculty maintain that the social 
obligations are more important than the 
the academic responsibilities. A more tra-
ditional viewpoint asserts that the Law 
School, as such, has no obligation to solve 
specific problems in a direct way. 

"The 'enlightened' view now is that the 
Law School should involve itself in cur-
rent problems only to the extent that that 
is the best way to convey to students the 
skills they need. But it is really difficult, 
from my own experience, to get involved 
and then pull out and gain an academic 
perspective. 

"The encouraging thing is that students 
go out and work on cases like this and 
then bring the information and insight into 
the classroom. If they form the bridge 
with the outside, then there is Jess reason 
for the professor to do it; and he can then 
synthesize, can present an academic 
overview. 

"This is the first time, as far as I know, 
that a law professor has taken up the de-
fense in a case involving organized crime. 
Usually, they just handle cases of indigents 
or cases involving some legal principle. 
But I guess a legal principle is involved 
here, too: the principle that you don't 
send an innocent man to prison.": 


**Berrigan**

Berrigan 
continued from page 2 
At a reading the next day, pushing for 
the last time against the questions about 
what he wants the reader to get from his 
work, he said that, for him, the poem lies 
as much on the surface of the page as does 
the paint in an abstract expressionist paint-
ing. The poet brings to his composition 
what depth of understanding and experi-
ence he commands, and the reader brings 
his own resources to the reading of it. But 
poet and reader do not meet in universal 
experience: the experiences they take 
away from the poem remain as different 
as their responsibilities to it. 

Ted Berrigan published The Sonnets 
with Grove Press in 1967. Many poems in 
the collection are made of phrases selected 
and rearranged from earlier sonnets, then 
rearranged again and again later in the 
sequence. Phrases, lines and words change 
their meanings as their places change. 
Each sonnet seems a separate manifesta-
tion of a very private world where no per-
son or thing can be sure of direct connec-
tion with any other person or thing. This 
month Corinth Books, in New York, is 
publishing a new collection of Berrigan's 
poetry, Many Happy Returns, with a 
cover by Joe Brainard. Along with "Per-
sonal Poems" and others, it contains the 
long poems "Bean Spasms," "Tambourine 
Life" and "Many Happy Returns"-three 
versions of what might be the same work, 
because all of it makes up the poet's work-
ing life. If The Sonnets were sustained by 
the unity of their language, the new collec-
tion reveals what critics usually call a 
voice. It is the sound of a man writing, 
making life into poetry. Many happy re-
turns, Ted. 

Susan Holahan


**Movies**
**Author: Tom Russell**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

Movies 
Two years ago, Andrew Sarris, film critic 
for the Village Voice and the leading 
propounder of what Fran~ois Truffaut 
calls "La politique des auteurs" (usually 
rendered the "auteur theory" of film), 
spoke at a Yale Flm Society showing of 
Samuel Fuller's Shock Corridor. Foran 
Sarris said about film as "the director's 
medium" and of Samuel Fuller as a great 
director, the audience appreciated Sarris' 
performance much more than what he 
had to say about film art and enjoyed both 
more than the Fuller movie that was 
shown. 

But a new generation of film enthusiasts 
has arrived, across the country and at 
Yale, and Sarris' theory of the American 
film director, which originally appeared 
in print in the spring 1963 issue of Film 
Culture has been seriously received by 
film enthusiasts. The American Cinema: 
Directors and Directions,J929-1968 fol-
lows the plan of the Film Culture article 
in discussing films by their director and in 
ranking the directors in more or less fanci-
ful categories: Pantheon, Expressive 
Esoterica, Strained Seriousness, Less Than 
Meets the Eye, etc. The book also con-
tains a "Directorial Chronology" for each 
year, really just an excuse for Sarris to 
epater le bourgeois by giving his favorites 
for each year. 

The rankings will be familiar to anyone 
who has ever seen a Yale Film Society 
program, although they will outrage many 
self-appointed film experts. Thus Hawk's 
ElDorado, Ford's Seven Women and 
Sirk's imitation of Life are among his 
favorites, while many idols of the popular 
press, e.g. Huston and Zinneman, are 
given short shrift. 

Yet the substance of the book lies not 
in the rankings and other little games 
Sarris is playing with his readers but rather 
in the essays on each director and the new 
essay he has written for the introduction, 
a detailed discussion of some of the prin-
ciples of the "auteur theory." Sarris is too 
discursive and insufficiently rigorous to be 
a great theoretician; the closest he ever 
gets to a definition of the "auteur theory" 
is a few phrases scattered through the in-
troduction." ... The worst film of a great 
director may be more interesting though 
less successful than the best film of a fair 
to middling director." He could have 
changed the "may be" to "is"; after all, 
isn't that the definition of a great artist? 
Two Gentlemen of Verona is more inter-
esting than anything by Marston, and 
The Stranger (Welles, not Visconti) is 
more interesting than anything by William 
Wyler. 

Sarris says in his introduction that in 
the making of a film, "Ideally the strong-
est personality should be the director, and 
it is when the director dominates the film 
that the cinema comes closest to reflecting 
the personality of a single artist. A film 
history could reasonably limit itself to a 
history of film directors." And finally, and 
~
perhaps most accurately, he notes, 'The 
director is both the least necessary and 
most important component of film-
making." 

But Sarris does not stop there. He is 
interested in the whole of film-making and 
perhaps as deeply in the world of film 
distribution. He discusses some of the eco-
nomic problems in film-making, but he is 
especially interested in the present and 
past position in America of critics and re-
viewers, insisting on the distinction 
between the two. "Reviewing is thus a 
consumer report for the uninitiated; criti-
cism a conversation with one's equals." 

As he points out, it was reviewers who 
destroyed the careers of Griffith, von 
Sternberg, Stroheim and Welles long be-
fore the studios did. Reviewers know their 
readers would rather read a good pan than 
a good rave. This may sound sancti-
monious until Sarris points out, "The last 
thing an auteur critic desires is to keep a 
reader from seeing a movie." This state-
ment will surprise none of his regular 
readers. His reviews in the Village Voice 
are rarely complete pans. He always finds 
something interesting about any film. 

It is his essays on individual directors 
that linger in the mind. He can be devas-
tatingly accurate in a pan. "Burt Topper 
has been discovered by Cahiers du 
Cinema as one of its little jokes on Ameri-
can film scholarship .... The joke is 
wearing thin at a time when Ameri-
can films are constantly reviled in the 
pages of Cahiers aJI the better to sing the 
praises of the New Albanian Cinema." But 
he is at his best with directors he loves. 
His essay on Ford is richly suggestive, and 
his best phrases have an evocative power 
not unlike some scenes by his subject: 
"How Green Was My Valley is notable 
for introducing Ford's visual treatment of 
the past as a luminous memory more real 
than the present and presumably more 
than the heroic future. His style has 
evolved almost miraculously into a double


--- Page 15 ---

15 I The New Journal! February 23, 1969 
vision of an event in all its vital immediacy 
and yet almost in its ultimate memory 
image on the horizon of history." 

The Ford essay is perhaps the best, 
carefully controlled with Sarris's supple 
sense of language. Occasionally he falters. 
Describing Hitchcock as "the supreme 
technician of the American cinema" does 
not seem to be much of an improvement 
over the usual sobriquet, "master of sus-
pense." And too often Sarris is content 
with assertion of greatness. Sec for ex-
ample his essay on Sirk, which is not likely 
to convince any not already of the devil's 
part. 

But finally the book is much more than 
the balance of its virtues and defects. As 
the first "weighted critical evaluation" of 
the American Cinema with any claims to 
be taken seriously, it is not the end of 
American film criticism. But it may be the 
end of the beginning. 


**Letters**
**Author: Alan S. Kay and Matt Borenstein**
**Page number(s): 15**

Letters 
To the Editor: 
What is a scientist? We used to know what 
he was and what he did. He was a loner, 
a thinker, a man who changed the face of 
modern society. But society has changed 
in other ways in the last few years, and the 
scientist has in many ways been left be-
hind. "Big Science" is now the order of the 
day; the scope of the individual researcher 
has been reduced to the point where he 
can no longer keep in view the goal toward 
which he is working. His research prior-
ities are no longer his decision alone, and 
often he cannot find out from whence the 
decisions come. The day of the lone re-
searcher is of necessity gone forever, but 
we are not at all sure what has replaced it. 

An opportunity is long overdue for 
scientists to examine their role in Ameri-
can society. At Yale, as well as at several 
other universities, this opportunity will 
come on Tuesday, March 4. As a demon-
stration of their concern, scientists and 
scholars will meet in the Yale Law School 
Auditorium to talk about the nature of 
modern science, relations with the military 
and America's social goals, the economics 
of science, and other topics which have 
made them apprehensive in recent years. 
"The Scientist and Society: a day of reflec-
tion" will tentatively be built around two 
panel discussions, on "Science and the 
Military" and "Science and the Direction 
of American Society." Among the parti-
cipants will be Arthur W . Galston, Pro-
fessor of Biology at Yale and an expert on 
defoliation, especially its uses in war-
fare; Dr. Robert Lifton, Professor of 
Psychiatry at the Yale Medical School 
who has studied the effects of the atomic 
bomb on the population of Hiroshima; 
Seymour Melman, Professor of Industrial 
Engineering at Columbia University and 
an expert on disarmament; Steven Wein-
berg, P rofessor of Physics at MIT and a 
consultant on defense matters; Kenneth 
Keniston, Associate Professor of Psychol-
ogy at Yale, who is a well known writer 
on the student radical and the alienation 
of youth; John Morton Blum, Farnum 
Professor of H istory at Yale; Harry 
Magdoff, Professor of Economics at the 
New School for Social Research who is 
currently conducting a seminar on im-
perialism at T imothy Dwight College; 
and Gerald F einberg, Professor of Physics 
at Columbia University and recently au-
thor of "The Prometheus Project." The 
emphasis of the day's activities will be on 
free and open discussion rather than lec-
tures; it will clearly not be free from con-
troversy. 

No one knows what the outcome of the 
day will be. Perhaps it will be a nice polite 
discussion which everyone will soon for-
get. But maybe we will all learn a little 
about how things really are and get some 
ideas about how we would like things to 
be. Perhaps it will be the start of a con-
tinuing forum. We have heard too often 
of how science deals with utopias; it is high 
time to talk about the realities of science. 


**Classifieds**

Classifieds 
20¢ per word 
Ads may be mailed to: Classifieds, The New 
Journal, 3432 Yale Station, New Haven, 
Connecticut, 06520. 

The Yale Ski Lodge for the ultimate in legal 
entertainment. Call Rick, 787-1893 

Zanger- what's a radical like you wearing a 
Rollex wrist watch? George Kannar, 
624-0315. 

A small beer at Mory's costs 25¢. A large 
beer costs 35¢. Both are the exact same size. 

The Yale Ski Lodge for a good healthy 
minimum in illegal entertainment. 

Grass roots movement to draft Goldie 
Hawn for urn President. Call urn Rich at 
772-1422 and ask for 'pinky.' 

I:ndJ.a.n. "'lll"a.n.tia 
tihe 
Bronx 
by IJrael Horowitz March 7-March 29 
last season's off·Broadway hit. An incident at a 5th 
Avenue bus stop escalates into an explosive statement 
on the aimless cruelty of our society. 

Now through March 1 
Dutchess of Melfi 
Long Wharf Theater 787-4282 

The Yale Symphony Orchestra 
under the direction of John F. Mauceri presents 
The Three Faces of Stravinsky 
The Firebird Suite 
l eu de Cartes 
Agon 
(1909/ 1919) 
(1937) 
N ew Haven 
(1 957) 
Premieres 
Saturday, February 22 
Admission: Free 

**Title: Nelke Motor Co. Advertisement**
**Author: Nelke Motor Co.**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Who else wants a 
• magnificent Mercedes? 
• economical Austin America? 
• sporty MGB or MGC? 
• practical Peugeot? 
• supersafe Rover? 
talk to Scott Armstrong '69 
our newest salesman, Scott is on the job in our 
showroom most afternoons, evenings, and weekends 
The Nelke Motor Co. 
1635 Dixwell Ave. 
Hamden, Conn. 
288-6412 
Greater New Haven's oldest imported car dealer


**Title: Sony 124-CS Stereo Cassette-Corder Advertisement**
**Author: Sony**

Works All Day, Plays All Night 
After a hard day's dictating to your Sony 124-CS stereo 
Cassette-Corde,.e, you get a rest. But your faithful Sony is 
still on duty -
standing by to bring you your favorite selec-
tions at home, hotel room, plane, or car. And the beauty of 
this new Sony cassette stereo system is that it fits into a· 
briefcase-size carrying case, external speakers and all. 
Push-button operation, pop-in-and-out cassettes, and Sony-
malic Recording Control make the 124-CS simple and fun 
to use. A regulated-speed DC motor ensures constant tape 
speed. There's never a power-supply worry with the 124-CS 
-use it on AC, car battery, four flashlight batteries, or Sony 
rechargeable battery pack. Come in today, and let us show 
you the one that plays all night. It's the playful one! Under 
$199.50. 


**Title: Yale Co-op Sale Advertisement**
**Author: Yale Co-op**


SQN~, ~ 
Th~ Top~woy to Stm~ 
Hasten to the Yale Co-op 
on SatUrday, February 22nd 
for the years biggest 
rice-chopping event ... 
Waslll · gtton'
·- ~ RIP bda ~ Ca:~ 
f5a,.,~<::;,w 
Bargains galore throughout the store! cash only-
patronage refund too. one day only-9 A.M. to 5:30P.M.

