Publication date: October 19, 1990
Volume: 23
Issue number: 2


**MASTHEAD:**
- Editor-in-Chief: Motoko Rich


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

Sweet Solution - page 5
Crossing the Color Line - Julian Ku - page 6
Who'll Take Out the Trash - Kathy Reich - page 8
No Sun Tomorrow - Laura Heymann - page 10
Connecticut's Latest Lockout - Jennifer Pitts - page 16
Making the Mosaic - Emily Bazelon - page 20
Swords Into Plowshares - Dennis Pierce - page 26


**Title: *
**Author: [N/A]**
**Page number(s): [2]**

371-373 ELM STREET 
(comer of Elm St. & Howe St.) 
~--------~FEATURING~----------
GYROS 
HOT OVEN GRINDERS 
SANDWICHES 
*Meatball 
half 
3.00 
PITA SANDWICHES 
*Sausage 
SOUVLAKI 
*Roast Beef 
3.10 
SALADS 
*Turkey Breast 
3.10. 
FREE DELIVERY 787-3333 
Store Hours: 
Monday-Thursday: 11 a.m.-2:30a.m., Friday: 11 a.m.-3:30a.m., 
Saturday: 5 p.m.-3:30a.m., Sunday: 5 p.m.-2:00a.m. 
whole 
3.95 
4.10 


**Title: Sweet Solution**
**Page number(s): [5]**


**Title: Crossing the Color Line**
**Author: Julian Ku**
**Page number(s): [6]**

The writer recalls Pre-Registration Orientation Program with fondness for friends he made 
then. Still, he questions what the University is trying to tell people of color. By Julian Ku. 


**Title: Who'll Take Out the Trash**
**Author: Kathy Reich**
**Page number(s): [8]**

With no more room in New Haven's landfill, the Daniels administration 
considers other ways to manage its garbage. Whether the city burns or recycles, 
it stands to lose millions. By Kathy Reich.


**Title: No Sun Tomorrow**
**Author: Laura Heymann**
**Page number(s): [10]**

Facing bankrupcy the city slashed funding for New Haven art. Local 
artists complain that Mayor Daniels has no soul. By Laura Heymann.


**Title: Connecticut's Latest Lockout**
**Author: Jennifer Pitts**
**Page number(s): [16]**

Prisons overflow, the crime rate increases and a neighborhood group opposes 
a new jail. What will become of Connecticut's penal system? By Jennifer Pitts.


**Title: Making the Mosaic**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): [20]**

Who says Romeo can't be African American? Actors of color, struggling to get 
lead roles, say Yale is narrow-minded. The Dramat, responding to criticism, 
experiments with non-traditional casting. By Emily Bazelon.


**Title: Swords Into Plowshares**
**Author: Dennis Pierce**
**Page number(s): [26]**

After years of prosperity, the Connecticut defense industry is 
in a slump. The Pentagon trimmed its budget, forcing local defense 
workers out of their jobs. The solution: stop relying on guns, 
start making butter. By Dennis Pierce.



**Title: Sweet Solution**
**Author: Suneeta Hazra**
**Page number(s): 5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Sweet Solution 
Dr. Pietro DeCamilli, a researcher at 
Yale Medical School, thought his work 
on an obscure disease would affect only 
300 people worldwide. Instead, he may 
drastically improve the lives of over one 
million people in the United States 
· alone. Accidentally, DeCamilli and his 
team may have discovered a way to 
prevent and cure insulin-dependent 
diabetes. 

Until last August, doctors could 
do nothing to prevent or delay the 
progression of diabetes. The disease 
strikes its victims when cells in the 
pancreas stop producing insulin, which 
regulates the body's glucose levels. 
Insulin injections and a careful diet can 
control the disease's early symptoms, 
but diabetics eventually develop kidney 
damage, nerve impairment and vision 
loss. 

Scientists hypothesized that 
diabetes results from the destruction of 
a mysterious protein in insulin-secreting 
cells, called 64K. As many as seven 
years before the onset of the disease, a 
victim's immune system releases 
antibodies that destroy this protein. But 
because the pancreas produces the 
protein in such small quantities, 
scientists could not observe how losing 
64K would harm the body. 

DeCamilli stumbled upon 64K 
while 
researching 
a 
seemingly 
unrelated neurological disorder called 
Stiff-man's syndrome. 
Stiff-man 
patients show high concentrations of 
antibodies which destroy a protein in 
the brain known as glutamic acid 
decarboxylase (GAD). 
DeCamilli 
noticed that an unusually high 
percentage of the stiff-man patients he 
studied suffered from diabetes. The 
ltatistic struck him as odd, until he 
realized that aside from the brain, GAD 
only exists in the insulin-secreting cells 
of the pancreas. Furthermore, h e 
observed that GAD weighs the same as 
protein 64K. 

Through a mixture of 
luck and intuition, DeCamilli realized 
that GAD and 64K were the same 
protein, solving a mystery which had 
befuddled diabetes researchers for ten 
years. 

DeCamilli contacted scientists at 
the University of California at San 
Francisco, and together they began to 
explore new possibilities for diabetes 
research. Laboratories can now harvest 
significant amounts of GAD from brain 
cells for their studies, instead of relying 
on meager supplies found in the 
attack on its own pancreas cells, doctors 
must currently suppress the entire 
immune system. The harmful side 
effects 
of 
immunosuppressants 
outweigh the benefits of delaying the 
disease. 

Although the identification of GAD 
heralds new treatment possibilities for 
diabetes, some scientists believe it may 
not lead to a cure. "It's a step in the 
right direction, but not the ultimate 
answer," said Dr. Robert Sherwin, Yale 
Professor of Medicine. He views GAD-
antibodies as a symptom of diabetes, 
not its cause. While this discovery will 
lead to earlier detection and delay the 
onset of the disease, he cautions that 
total prevention is still unattainable. 

But total prevention is DeCamilli's 
goal. He has abandoned his stiff-man 
research to work with UCSF on a GAD 
antibody screening test. "Tltis discovery 
of GAD is what all doctors dream of 
when they begin to do research," he 
said. "It's a big chance to make a 
significant difference." 


---

**Title: Who'll Take Out the Trash**
**Author: Kathy Reich**
**Page number(s): 6**

Who'll Take Out the Trash 
Kathy Reich 
A huge pile o£ trash sits on Middletown 
Avenue. Each year, city trucks take 
146,000 tons of garbage to the 
Middletown A venue landfill. Local 
corporations and nearby towns leave 
their trash there as well, paying New 
Haven $3 million annually .for the 
privilege. But in July the d"ump will 
shut down, and the city will lose both 
this revenue and a place to chuck its · 
trash. Getting rid of the garbage could 
cost $13 million a year. 

To cut that expense, Mayor John 
Daniels' administration has launched a 
war on waste, featuring a new 
processing plant able to recycle over 
half of New Haven's refuse. But the 
plan has run into fiscal woes and 
logistical snags. Few people outside 
City Hall seem to care. "I guess garbage 
goes to the curb and no one ever 
worries about it again," said Liz 
MacCormack, chairwoman of the Board 
of Aldermen Committee on Solid 
Waste. 

Six years ago, when then-mayor 
Biagio DiLieto learned the landfill 
would soon close, he suggested a 
simple solution: build an incinerator. 
New Haven could keep making profits 
off garbage, torching its own trash 
while charging outside customers to use 
the burn plant. But environmental 
groups, citing health risks from toxic 
ash, forced DiLieto to scrap the project. 
Ignoring warnings from the Connecticut 
Department 
of . Environmental 
Protection, New Haven continued to 
rely solely on the dump. "After DiLieto 
withdrew the proposal, his office just 
dropped the ball," said Frank Grasso, 
president of the Board of Aldermen. 
''We were content to keep dumping in 
the landfill, and no one sounded the 
alarm. No one said, 'It's one minute to 
midnight."' 

The city did try to buy itself some 
time. In 1989, the Board of Aldermen 
asked the DEP for permission to expand 
the landfill. This expansion would give 
the city at most three years of free 
garbage disposal. The DEP still has not 
responded. "There's a good chance that 
the state won't grant us an extension," 
Grasso admitted. "If New Haven loses its 
landfill, the city will have to pay a 
· private contractor "to haul the trash 
away for burning, most likely to 
Bridgeport. 

According to Sue 
Weisselberg, the city's Director of 
Intergovernmental Relations, the cost to 
ship garbage out of town and to pay 
Bridgeport to incinerate it comes to 
$10.4 million a year. 

Hoping to reduce this expense, 
the aldermen have launched a 
comprehensive attack on garbage. The 
goal: cut the city's waste by 60 percent 
over the next five years to reduce 
reliance on costly incineration. This 
strategy hinges on a processing plant 
that would separate New Haven's 
garbage into recyclables, compostables, 
and waste. 

Committee 
chairwoman 
MacCormack says the processing 
plant's future is virtually guaranteed. 
The aldermen will request bids from 
processors in November, and hope to 
find the right one by March. While 
processors charge huge fees to sort 
garbage, the aldermen believe they can 
recoup part of this expense by charging 
other towns that use the processor. The 
board also hopes to share what profits 
the processor earns from selling 
recyclables found in city trash. "In a 
best-case scenario we'd break even," 
Board President Grasso said. 

Weisselberg thinks Grasso is too 
optimistic. Although the aldermen 
expect the plant to charge a $70 
processing fee per ton to clients from 
outside New Haven, she fears operating 
costs may force fees above $100 a ton. 
Since incinerators charge slightly less, 
Weisselberg worries that the plant 
won't attract any outside customers. 
Furthermore, processing plants spew 
out lots of nonrecyclable waste that 
clients must then pay to incinerate 
elsewhere. "If it ends up at an extremely 
high cost," Weisselberg said, "and if a 
bum plant is a lot lower in cost, you'll 
have other towns putting all their 
garbage in .a truck and shipping it off 
somewhere to be burned." A processor 
cannot succeed if outside customers do 
not also use it, since even the city's 400 
daily tons of garbage is not enough to 
run a viable sorting business. 

Without a plant, New Haven has 
little chance of reaching its 60 percent




**Title: New Haven's Trash Troubles**
**Author:  Jennifer Pitts/The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
recycling target. "Maybe with a 
processing plant and voluntary 
recycling, we could do 60 percent," 
Grasso said. "But we could never do it 
just voluntarily." Even if the city does 
·find a bidder who can keep costs down, 
the plant will not open before 1993. In 
the meantime, the city must rely solely 
on voluntary recycling to ease its 
dependency on the Bridgeport 
incinerator. New Haven residents now 
recycle at most five percent of their 
trash. 

The Daniels administration has 
invested $200,000 in recycling, and 
another $175,000 in personnel, but the 
city employs only one person in its 
recycling office, Kate Miller. "Everyone 
would like to see Miller have some help, 
but the money just isn't there," said 
MacCorm ack. "We've tossed around 
some ideas like making recycling 
mandatory and fining those who don't 
comply, but those schemes really don't 
raise much money. Recycling is 
expensive." 

In the long run, though, it pays. 
If the processing plant never gets built, 
voluntary recycling will be New 
Haven's only way to stem the expensive 
flow of refuse going to the Bridgeport 
incinerator. If the city finds a contractor 
to build the plant, New Haven could 
still use curbside recycling to turn a 
profit from the sale of what it recovers 
from recycled waste. Last January 
Miller gave bins to 6,500 households to 
encourage home trash separation so city 
trucks could pick u p glass, paper, 
plastic and aluminum at the curb. By 
11eXt May, all 20,000 households on city 
Slrbage routes will be able to recycle as 
easily as the pilot group, although any 
CUrbside recycling program depends on 
residents' cooperation. "There's still a 
lot of stuff that we're missing, but we're 
October 19, 1990 
Jennifer Pitts/The New Journal 
New Haven will have to find a new roost for its dally 400 tons of trash. 
trying to plug up the holes," Miller said. 

The biggest hole gapes where 
city dump trucks don't go-businesses 
and apartment buildings with more 
than six units, which must contract with 
private haulers. New Haven is losing 
valuable revenue by letting this garbage 
go to the landfill without recycling any 
of it. Though Miller has received an 
$80,000 state grant to start recycling 
programs in two public housing 
projects, other apartment dwellers and 
businesses that recycle must cart their 
"We were content to 
keep dumping in the 
landfill, and no one 
sounded the alarm. No 
one said, 'It's one 
minute to midnight. "' 
separated materials to one of only five 
drop-off sites. 

The administration has no 
additional plans for recycling. Cities 
like New York and Seattle have 
implemented mandatory programs, but 
New Haven can't even enforce the anti-
garbage ordinances already on the 
books. Recently the city outlawed 
styrofoam and plastic bags, but local 
merchants have not complied with the 
ban. 

For now, voluntary recycling 
must succeed beyond all expectations in 
order to clean up the city's budget. If 
New Haven doesn't find a processing 
plant operator, the city will soon pay 
$13.4 million a year to bum its waste in 
Bridgeport. Even if a plant is built, it 
would not start working before 1993, 
saddling New Haven with a $30 million 
garbage debt until then. Mayor Daniels 
already faces a $10 million budget gap, 
with schools, homeless shelters and the 
police all desperate for more money. 

Tax hikes and slashed city 
programs look more and more 
likely. New Haven has no real choice: it 
must shell out the dollars to get rid of a 
garbage heap that grows 400 tons each 
day. 

-
The New Journal 7 


**Title: Crossing the Color Line**
**Author: Julian Ku**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

Between the Vines/Julian Ku 
Crossing the· color Line 
I am at Speedline in Commons, looking 
for a place to sit. I scan the huge room, 
searching for familiar faces. I don't want 
to eat alone in public. Luckily I find a 
group of my Asian-American friends 
eating and chatting in a comer. As I sit 
down, I think how nice it is to have a 
group of friends to eat with and I 
remember how I met all these people in 
the first place. I recall my first day at 
Yale. 

Unlike most of my class, I did not 
arrive on Old Campus on August 31. I 
came to Yale nine days earlier to 
participate in the Pre-Registration 
Orientation Program. I did not meet a 
single European-American student for 
six days. The counselor who helped me 
overcome my first-day jitters was not a 
freshperson counselor, but an ethnic 
counselor-one of twenty assigned to 
the freshman class. My first friends at 
Yale were all students of color. Today, I 
look back on PROP with both 
appreciation and resentment. 

PROP was started twenty years ago 
to give incoming students of color extra 
time to adjust before the rest of the 
freshperson class arrived for the 
university orientation. PROP is a 
controversial program, attacked for 
encouraging ethnic segregation by only 
including students of color. PROP itself 
8 The New Journal 
has three goals for its participants: to 
familiarize new students with Yale, to 
establish relationships with ethnic 
counselors and other university 
personnel, and to foster friendships that 
create a social support network. 

PROP is most successful in creating 
friendships. On my first night at Yale, I 
spent the entire evening roaming Old 
Campus, meeting PROP people. I sat 
on the steps of Wright Hall talking un til 
three in the morning with people I had 
met only hours earlier. Later in th e 
week, I discovered the joy of diving 
through the Old Campus sprinklers at 4 
a.m., dragging unwilling friends 
through the watery experience. 
Every 
night there was a spontaneous party. 
What made the first night of PROP 
so different from orientation activities 
was its size. 
It was much less 
intimidating to socialize in a group of 
150 than in a group of 1,300. 

Unfortunately, the friendships PROP 
created tended to split along ethnic 
lines. 
During a visit to the African-
American Cultural Center, I felt 
awkward. I spent my time there talking 
to my Asian-American friends in one 
comer of the TV room while the African 
Americans gathered on the other side of 
the room. The two groups couldn't 
even agree on music. Many Asian 
Americans stayed off the dance floor 
because they disliked the rap m ix. 
When somebody cued up Erasure, the 
African Americans cleared the floor. 

Social networks cause many of 
PROP's problems. Many of my friends 
a re people whom I met at PROP or 
fr iends of PROP people. 
It's so 
tempting to stay inside these groups, 
never reaching out to meet new people. 
Many times in my first month at Yale, I 
have been with my roommates and then 
bumped into a friend from PROP. It is 
always somewhat difficult for me to 
integrate my friendships. But people 
make close friends at Freshman 
Outdoor Orientation Trips and 

--- Page 9 ---

Freshperson Conference as well. What 
is the difference? 

Color. Color is the core of the 
PROP program. The ideal world would 
allow people to disregard skin color 
entirely. But this is certainly far from an 
ideal world. 
Color does make a 
difference. I am sitting with a group of 
my PROP friends at lunch. I spot my 
roommate eating alone on the other side 
of Commons. I go over to invite him to 
join us but he delicately refuses. He has 
a class to catch, he's in a hurry, he's 
perfectly fine where he is, he tells me. 
Eventually, another friend joins him. 
Our friends don't mix. And color is 
undeniably a part of the reason. 

PROP is the only pre--Yale program 
which restricts its invitations to certain 
groups of students. This practice makes 
PROP extremely controversial. The 
administration sends certain unspoken 
messages to the student body through 
its actions. When I first received my 
invitation to PROP, I reacted the same 
way I had to the invitation to Minority 
Weekend last spring and the calls from 
the Minority Recruitment workers. To 
me, Yale is saying that non-white 
students either deserve, or need, more 
orientation than other students. I am a 
specull case deserving special treatment. 
I need extra support, unlike normal 
white students who can do just fine on 
their own. The administration may not 
intend to send this message, but it is the 
one I hear. 

PROP is only one part of a broader 
network. The ethnic deans, ethnic 
counselors, and cultural houses add to 
the overall message-a message of 
white superiority. Some European-
American students use this message to 
claim that the widely-believed minority 
quota myth is enforced. They say that 
the university is dying to get minority 
students here and take care of them, 
and have made special allowances on 
their applications. 

Ethnic awareness and orientation to 
Yale should not be restricted to people 
of color. European Americans are an 
ethnic group as well. Why not open 
PROP up to all incoming students 
instead of just non-white students, 
while keeping it about the same size? 

Many white students resent the 
numerous support gyoups for every 
possible social group except European-
Americans. These students face racial 
issues as well. Perhaps European-
''Many Asian Americans 
stayed off the dance 
floor because they 
disliked the rap mix. 
When somebody cued 
up Erasure, the African 
Americans cleared the 
floor. " 
Americans would understand such 
racial issues much better after spending 
time at PROP. The inclusion of white 
students would not weaken the 
experience. I believe it would actually 
enrich PROP. 

The administration has made some 
changes in the program to avoid 
segregating PROP students from the 
rest of the student body. 
They 
shortened the program from almost two 
weeks to six days. This change allowed 
students to participate in FOOT or 
Conference as well as PROP. But other 
changes are also needed. PROP still 
causes racial uneasiness from the very 
beginning of the Yale experience. ln the 
future, perhaps, PROP could be 
transformed from part of the problem 
into part of the solution. 

Julian Ku is a freshperson in Davenport 
College. 

**Title: New Haven's Arts Scene Faces Funding Crisis**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"My work is always a social and political comment, and often 
would have done a lot of good." 
a critical comment," said Joey Tomorrow. Right now the local 
Losing NEA grants is only part of the bad news for the 
visual artist is working on his latest comment, a piece 
arts community. Budget cuts also forced staff layoffs at the 
addressing issues of media, gender and environmentalism. 
Department of Cultural Affairs. That means no one is left to 
To buy the materials for his work, called Scandals of the 
enforce the city's "Percent for Art" law, which mandates that 
PatriJlrchal World, he is using a $1000 grant from the National 
one percent of any construction or renovation budget for a 
Endowment for the Arts Locals Program. The grant matches 
city-owned structure must go to commission an original work 
any increase in funds that a city apportions for the arts. But 
of art by a New Haven artist. This year, the "Percent for Art" 
next year, Tomorrow will pay for his work out of his own 
law would have generated approximately $75,000 for local 
pocket. 
In a desperate attempt to rescue New Haven from its be going on now," said Sara Trachten, a former employee of 
current financial crisis, the city's administration made 
the Department of Cultural Affairs. "Greater New Haven has 
extensive budget cuts this year. Soon after Tomorrow and 
some fine artists who should be earning their money." 
other local artists received 
Since the Department of 
their NEA grants, Mayor John 
Cultural Affairs disbanded, 
Daniels's 
administration 
New Haven can no longer 
eliminated the Department of 
provide the city-sponsored 
Cultural Affairs's $250,000 Budget cuts have devastated the 
display space known as the 
budget, effectively axing all 
"City Art Gallery." The 
city money for the arts this Comprehensive Arts Program, which 
Department of Cultural Affairs 
year. Without city support, no 
used to select the work of local 
New Haven artist can receive placed artiStS in the publiC SChOOlS tO 
artists to show in city offices 
money through the NEA 
on Orange Street. Even before 
Locals Program. 
hefp teacherS bring art intO their 
the city announced its budget 
By slashing the Cultural 
cuts, arts administrators had 
Affairs budget, New Haven CUrricula. 
questioned Mayor Daniels's 
will also lose $60,000 that it 
commitment to the arts. They 
would have received from the 
think Daniels' decision to cut 
NEA over the next two years. 
funding was influenced by his 
Until now, New Haven had ====================:;;z;;;=== distaste for a specific artwork. 
received the largest grant in Connecticut through the Locals 
The piece, a drawing of a naked man giving birth, hung in the 
Program. City officials claim that the loss of NEA funds will 
city art gallery. "We knew it would cause problems," said 
not particularly hurt the arts community. "The Locals Trachten. She and her colleagues debated whether the 
Program has such limited scope anyway," said Allen Lowe, a 
drawing should be displayed. "We thought about it very 
spokesperson for Mayor Daniels's office. "There's no reason 
carefully," said Trachten. "We wanted to hang it. I 
why the department can't be more active in looking for grants 
personally didn't feel it was offensive." To avoid potential 
to replace it." 
public disapproval, the department placed the drawing on an 
People more closely connected to the arts in New Haven 
inconspicuous wall on the fourth floor of the building. 
believe the Locals Program was vital, especially for individual 
Soon afterward, Trachten says, Mayor Daniels asked the 
artists. "The Locals Program supported a considerable 
Department of Cultural Affairs to take down the drawing. 
number of individual artists in New Haven who struggled to 
The Mayor said that visitors to the city offices had complained 
get grants," said Frances T. Clarke, Executive Director of the 
about the nudity in the artwork. The department persuaded 
Arts Council of Greater New Haven. "It is a tragedy that the 
Daniels to let the artwork stay on the wall until the end of the 
city has lost that grant." Tomorrow is disappointed that New 
month. According to Trachten, someone arrived at the offices 
Haven's financial crunch forces the city to reduce funding for 
at 9:00a.m. on the first of the next month to take down the 
the arts. "These kinds of things make me lose faith in the 
drawing. Although Trachten doesn't link the dosing of the 
city," he said. "The loss of the grant is too bad. It really 


city art gallery to the controversial drawing, she believes 
that Daniels's attitude toward the piece 
may reflect his general attitude toward 
arts in the city. "I'm not sure if the cuts 
in the Department of Cultural Affairs 
were due to the Mayor's inexperience 
with the arts or the city's financial 
crisis," she said. 
Administration cutbacks have 
slashed the arts across the board. The 
Comprehensive Arts Program, funded 
by the Department of Education, is 
struggling for survivfl). The p rogram, 
which places artists in the public 
schools to help teachers bring art into 
their curricula, is understaffed this year 
because the city dismissed four of the 
six artists who worked in the schools. 
Some arts adminstrators hope that 
the New Haven arts scene may yet see a 
revitalization. "There's a feeling that .if . 
the city can get back on its feet again 
financ;:llly, the size of the Department 
of Cultural Affairs will increase," said 
the Arts Council's Clarke. But Trachten 
has her doubts. "I don't think that the 
re-establishment of the department will 
happen during this term of Mayor 
administration," 
said 
Trachten. "If he is re-elected, I don't 
think it will be one of his priorities." 
Indeed, even before the budget cuts, 
Daniels moved to change the focus of 
the Department of Cultural Affairs. He 
wanted the depa rtment to provide 
services and plan events for visitors to 
the city, in the hope of increasing 
revenue for local businesses. 
Meanwhile, all the budget cutbacks 
have 
forced 
artists 
and 
arts 
organizations in the city to seek 
alternative sources of funding. Today's 
shaky economy leaves potential donors 
with little money to spare. ''We have to 
come up with new and creative ways to 
raise funds," said Bob Gregson, the 
current director and only remaining 
employee of the Department of Cultur~l 
Affairs. "But the dollars just aren't 
there this year." Local businesses that 
used to take up the slack left by the city 
must tum their backs on the arts. New


**New Haven Arts Funding Cuts**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Former Dep't of Cult. Affairs employee Sara 
Trachten Is disappointed by recent cuts In 
New Haven's budget for the arts. 

Haven's First Night celebration, a New 
Year's Eve festival which debuted last 
year, will not happen this year because 
city merchants cannot put up the 
necessary capital to get the project off 
the ground. Gregson hopes to resurrect 
the event by charging admission at First 
Night 1992. 

High visibility arts programs do 
not yet feel the effects of budget cuts 
and a weakened economy. Large 
corporate donors such as Bank of 
Boston still support organizations like 
October 19, 1990 
the Shubert Theater. But experimental 
artists and arts organizations cannot 
depend 
on 
such 
commercial 
sponsorship. Most financial institutions 
are hesitant to attach their names to 
potentially controversial work. "The 
banking industry as a whole has been a 
cautious, conservative industry in terms 
of sponsorship," said Richard Beebe, 
spokesperson for Bank of Boston in 
Connecticut. "No corporation likes to 
engender controversy and attract 
critics." 

Gregson sympathizes with the 
experimental artist's problem. 
"I've 
run into viewpoints like the Bank of 
Boston's for fifteen years," he said. 
"That's why the NEA Locals Program 
was so terrific-because it funded a 
wide variety of things." The loss of this 
funding will hit city artists particularly 
hard, because the Locals Program 
mandated that the city earmark a 
portion of the money for individuals. 


**Title: Connecticut's Latest Lockup**
**Author: Jennifer Pitts**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Balloons decorated the entrance to the Community 
Correctional Center on Whalley Avenue. Voices echoed off 
the bare cinderblock as guests nibbled doughnuts and sipped 
coffee. Prison officials led informal tours past bunk beds and 
new weight-lifting equipment. Deputy Warden Michael 
Pozzetta pointed out two steel shelves on the wall awaiting 
color television sets. "Just like the ones in motels, only 
tougher," he said . 


Last month, fifty neighbors, prison officials and 
government representatives gathered to inaugurate an 
addition to the Whalley complex. With no cells and no bars, 
the new minimum-security wing looks more like a camp 
cabin than a jail. 'They got their TV's, their telephones, their 
washer-dryers," said Mildred Darden, a community resident. 
"They got it better in here than I got it out there." 


The Connecticut Department of Correction sponsored the 
open house to present the completed prison to a community 
organization called Neighbors Opposing Prison Expansion! 
Two years ago, local citizens founded NOPE! in response to a 
state proposal to expand the Whalley facility. The DOC 
wanted to add 200 inmates to the existing prison population 
of 450. Fearing that the addition to the prison would ruin the 
neighborhood, NOPE! organized a grassroots campaign to 
stymie the project. 


NOPE! members worried that visitors to the expanded 
facility would clog the streets and disrupt the peace. For the 
past several years, Darden recalls, large groups gathered on 
the sidewalks around the jail, shouting to the prisoners inside. 
"They were whooping and hollering every night," she said. 
Neighborhood concerns intensified when the state decided to 
build the new wing on the prison parking lot. "Traffic was 
already a big problem," said community activist Laura 
Lockwood. 'The addition would only make things worse." 


Many community residents shared NOPE!'s complaints. 
The group attracted more than 100 people to its 
organizational meetings last year, held rallies outside the 
prison, and voiced objections to government officials. 'They 
succeeded in making it a city-wide issue," said Lockwood. 


Hoping to assuage NOPE!, the DOC covered existing 
windows with sheet metal and used frosted plexiglass on new 
windows so that light could come in, but no one could see in 
or out. This month, the department will also construct a 200-
car parking garage for visitors. Lockwood believes NOPE!'s 
complaints forced the state to modify its proposal. "Originally 
they had absolutely no plans for the garage," she said. 


The DOC gave in to NOPE!'s smaller demands but 
refused to kill the project. Faced with overcrowded prisons 
throughout the state, the DOC was determined to expand the 
Whalley facility. Today, inmates sleep on mattresses on the 
floors of many Connecticut jails, and officials release convicts 
early to clear space for new prisoners. Most convicted drug 
dealers serve only ten weeks of the standard two-year term. 
"The criminal justice system has become a farce-it cannot 
carry through on punishment," said Ken Rosenthal, a criminal 
defense lawyer for the New Haven Legal Assistance 
Association. "Drug dealers and buyers quickly learn that 
going to jail is an empty threat." 


In an effort to restore the justice system's bite, the DOC 
wants to raise Connecticut's inmate capacity from 10,000 to 
16,000 by 1993. This prison expansion program, begun in 
1986, could quadruple the state corrections budget to more 
than $1 billion a year. To save money, the DOC has built 
dormitory-style jails like the Whalley addition rather than 
more expensive cell-block prisons. NOPE! fears that these 
lower-security facilities are unsafe. Fights are difficult to 
control because dorm-style jails provide no way to separate 
inmates and employ fewer guards than traditional prisons do. 
"It is not the best way to run a jail," said State Assemblyman 
Michael Lawlor (D-East Haven), who co-chairs the State 
Subcommittee on Correction. "If a fight breaks out at the new 
Whalley prison, guards will run out and lock the doors 
behind them." 


Like Lawlor, State Assemblyman Robert Ward (R-
Branford) believes that Connecticut should not rely on dorm-
style jails. With maximum-security facilities overflowing, 
Ward fears the DOC will use the Whalley addition and others 
like it for criminals who belong in high-security jails. "All too 
often violent criminals are assigned to minimum-security 
prisons," he said. "The Whalley jail might hold anyone from 
drunk drivers to murderers," Lawlor added. 


To ensure public safety, Ward wants the state to build 
more maximum-security prisons. He hopes the federal


**Title:  (Untitled)**
**Author:  (Untitled)**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

government will help pay for them. 

Still, he admits that most Connecticut 
residents do not want any prisons in 
their neighborhoods. "It's the not-in-
my-backyard syndrome," he said. He 
suggests sending state convicts to · 
prisons in less populous areas of the 
country. Voters in Texas and upstate 
New York have petitioned for new 
prisons in their districts, eager for the 
jobs that accompany these facilities. 


Defense attorney Rosenthal argues 
that prison expansion, whether in 
Trumbull or in Tuna, is more a political 
than a punitive tactic. "Voters want to 
lock convicts up and throw away the 
key," he said. Politicians seek to ease 
overcrowding 
through 
prison 
expansion rather than rehabilitation 
programs. But Rosenthal claims that 
prison expansion is destined to fail. 
"Building new 
prisons 
is 
the 
unthinking, popular thing to do," he 
said. "You can't build yourself out of 
the overcrowding problem." 


Lawlor wants Connecticut to jail 
only the most violent felons, keeping 
them in prison for their full sentences. 
For the rest, he hopes to replace 
incarceration with fines and terms at 
restitution centers. Inmates in such 
centers would be allowed to leave each 
day to work in local industries. The 
centers would use the inmates' earnings 
to compensate ·victims, cover room and 
board, and establish compulsory 
savings accounts. Lawlor believes these 
centers would have a positive impact on 
the prisoners. "They would have jobs 
and money when they got out," he said. 


Lawlor hopes that Connecticut's 
move to reinstate its parole board on 
October 1 will lead to a better 
correctional policy. Nine years ago, the 
state legislature, convinced that 
rehabilitation did not work, all but 
eliminated parole. Prisoners would 
serve their full sentences. Yet by 1982, 
administrators realized this policy could 
not work. "Jails were bursting at the 
seams," said Rosenthal. Once again, the 
state began releasing inmates-only this 
time without the help of parole boards. 
Small groups of prison officials 
around the state made release decisions 
at meetings closed to {he public and did 
not inform victims when they released 
inmates. The reinstated parole board 
replaces haphazard release practices 
with uniform standards for discharge. 
"Parole is a public, institutionalized 
procedure-not some 'behind closed 
doors' decision," said Rosenthal. "It 
puts rationality and credibility back into 
the. correctional system." Lawlor 
believes the new parole board will clear



**Title: The New Jail**
**Author: Jennifer Pitts**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
photo ccurtesy of Michael Lawlor 
"The new jail might hold anyone from drunk 
drivers to murderers," said State 
Rep. 
Michael Lawlor(D-East Haven). 
Lawlor hopes the new Whalley Avenue jail will hold fewer prisoners, thus making it less th reatening prisoners and aid 
his plan to reserve traditional jails for 
the most dangerous criminals. 
But the parole board alone cannot 
solve overcrowding, nor can it deter 
crime. Lawlor warns that Connecticut 
must pursue alternative solutions now, 
before federal courts force the state to 
do so. In 1981, Texas inmates filed suit 
against that state, complaining about 
overcrowding and other safety hazards. 
Convinced that Texas would not clean 
up its act, a federal court took over the 
state correctional system and set 
population limits in all its facilities. In 
an effort to regain control of its prisons, 
the 
Texas legislature endorsed 
comprehensive criminal reform in 1989. 
Lawlor hopes Connecticut will learn 
from the Texas experience. "As with 
school desegregation, you can do it now 
or have the courts take over and do it 
their way," he said. 
Bu t NOPE! members are not 
heeding Lawlor's call to action. NOPE!'s 
October19, 1990 
formal 
involvement 
with 
Department of Correction will end with 
the completion of the Whalley center's 
garage. Though NOPE! organizers have 
pledged to support other Connecticut 
communities 
protesting 
prison 
expansion, most members are losing 
interest. While the parking garage and 
plexiglass 
windows 
are 
some 
consolation, the prisoners arriving at the 
Whalley facility on November 1 show 
that NOPE! has lost its main battle. "The 
government supposedly sympathized 
with us, blah, blah, blah," said 
Reverend Stanley Justice of the Bethel 
African Methodist Episcopal Church, 
where NOPE! held its meetings. "They 
went ahead and built it anyway." 


NOPE! members, Ward, Lawlor, and 
Rosenthal would have done otherwise. 
But for a state strapped for funds and 
facing a prison system about to burst, 
the Whalley addition is a quick fix. -
jennifer Pitts, a junior in Calhoun College, 
is Photography Editor of TN f.


**Title: Making the Mosaic**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

N on-Traditional Casting at the Dramat 
Into the Woods, opening November 2 at the University Theater, 
was not the Yale Dramat's first choice for the fall musical. 
When the Dramat board met last spring to pick this season's 
show , they wanted to stage Fiddler on the Roof. But Stephanie 
Cassell-Scott, the director hired for the production, felt uneasy 
about casting actors of color for a show about a Russian-
Jewish community. "At the time, it was hard for me to accept 
a black Tevya, because I feel that the oppressed people of the 
show should tell their own story," she said. 
Cassell-Scott's reservations caused the 
Dramat to drop Fiddler in favor of Into the Woods. "I wanted to do a show that the 
whole community would feel comfortable 
auditioning for, and Fiddler didn't seem 
ideal for that," said Cassell-Scott. " Because 
the story line of this show weaves three 
fairy tales together, it is much more open 
to non-traditional casting." Three of the 
show's major roles went to African-
American actors, including a woman 
playing the narrator, a role first played on 
Broadway by a white man. 
Still, non-traditional casting at the 
Dramat has been the exception and not the 
rule. From the fall of 1988 until last spring, 
only eight people of color performed in six 
mainstage shows. Non-white actors 
believe that casting should be more 
progressive. "Talent should transcend 
stereotypes," said Crystal Marie Smith 
(DC '93), a member of The Purple Crayon 
improvisational 
comedy 
group. 
"Appearance is important for the first two 
minutes that you're on stage, and for the 
rest it's the acting that matters." She 
points out that non-traditional casting 
usually is not considered, especially for 
plays about families and lovers. 
Hoping to attract more people of color 
to Yale auditions, David DeRose, the 
Director of the Undergraduate Theater Studies major, 
distributed a statement at the beginning of the term: 
Whenever possible, Theater Studies 
faculty and classroom productions 
will pursue opportunities for non-traditional 
casting (e.g.- the casting of people of color 
and/or women in roles written for or 
"traditionally" given to white males). 
DeRose issued this statement because no people of color 
auditioned for The Bourgeois Avant 
Garde, a show he directed for the 
Calhoun Dramat last spring. He 
recalls that several African-American 
actors said they assumed they would 
be cast in the role of the maid, a 
character traditionally played by an 
African-American actor. This type of 
concern among African-American 
actors is common at Yale. "The 
Dramat is white, and it's an 
intimidating atmosphere for people 
not used to that culture," said Tara 
Murphy (CC '91), who helped found 
Hekah, a theater group for women of 
color on campus. "I was marginalized 
in terms of the parts I was getting-
the weirdo, the witch, the slut." Other 
African-American actors also believe 
they are victims of stereotyped 
casting. "I can definitely feel a sense 
of frustration in the African-American 
community about people not getting 
parts, or only certain ones," said 
Nicole Duncan (TC '91), managing 
director of the Heritage Theater 
Ensemble, an African and African-
American theater company. "The term 
non-traditional casting itself suggests 
that we just arrived from another 
planet or we're a new kind of fruit or 
something." 

African-American students feel discouraged after 
numerous auditions and no call-backs. "If there are 20 people 
trying out, it's almost impossible to tell if you didn't get the 
part because you're black or because you're a bad actor," said 
Duncan. "You have to have an incredible love of theater to 
overcome that and keep auditioning." 
"I was marginalized in terms of the 
parts I was getting-the weirdo, the 
witch, the slut. " 
African-American actors believe that most student 
directors are reluctant to go out on a limb with non-
traditional casting. "It's tough when you're a black actor here 
and the director isn't exactly looking for you," said Marvin 
McAllister (OC '92), artistic director for HTE. "If they do cast 
you then they're taking a risk." McAllister cites the show 
Oedipus, the story of two brothers, as an example of this 
problem. "To do non-traditional casting you have to 
overcome the person's color and expect the audience to get 
past that," he said. Non-traditional casting becomes 
particularly tricky when directors consider its political 
implications. "No one can answer how to cast people of color 
in a play that is historically white," said Murphy. "Is it a 
political comment, or not? Audiences don't know." 
DeRose believes that Dramat directors do not generally 
cast on the basis of race. "Any intelligent director is going to 
look beyond the color of a person's skin," he said. Still, he 
admits race may sometimes influence a director's decision. 
"If an outstanding black actor auditions for a role written for a 
white person, he or she could get cast. But the middle-of-the-
road minority actor has very little chance." 
African-
American actors are frustrated by this inequality. "I have to be 
three times as good to get cast," said Purple Crayon's Smith. 
"You usually don't see average quality acting from people of 
color in a show here, and I have seen a lot of mediocre 
acting." 
To compensate, people of color have formed their own 
theater groups. Last year, women of color banded together 
during the production of For Colored Girls Who Have Considered 
Suicide When the Rainbow Is Enuf to create Hekah. The group 
chose the name from an ancient Egyptian feminine force. "We 
have this reputation that we're witches, and we are, in the 
sense that we are trying to reclaim women's power," said 
Murphy.

Ten years ago, several African-American students



**Title: Yale's Theater Scene: A Question of Access**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Frustra.ted by dangerous 
environmental and food chemicals? 
Don't be. 
We cany a full line of 
prese.rvative and additive 
free groceries, organic 
produce, natural vitamins, 
~"~~ 
. ~~ tc cruelt:J-:·free cosmetics and 
enwronmentany safe 
cleaners. We also offer 
\ r!_ vegetarian hot and cold 
'\J{) salad bar and deli. 
Mr. Naturaltafs, 
"It 1 the •••t 11 tow• I" 
EDGE OF THE WOODS NATURAL MARKET 
379 Whalley Avenue (near Norto n ) New Haven 
;t 
787·1055 
OPEN 7 DAY~ : Mon.-Fri. 8:~ am • 7:~ pm Sat. 8:~ am • 6:~ pm/ Sun. 9 am · 6 pm 
PLErrn' Of' ~E PAIUU~I 
founded the Heritage Theater Ensemble 
to promote African-American actors 
and playwrights in the Yale-New 
Haven community. "HTE is necessary 
for having black theater at Yale," said 
Duncan, the group's managing director. 
HTE wanted to produce more shows 
emphasizing the African-American 
experience. 
"The 
mainstream 
productions here don't include black 
theater," said McAllister. "Much of the 
material is not about me." While 
African-Americans make up the 
majority of actors in Hekah and HTE, 
other ethnic and racial groups do not 
have their own options-perhaps 
because they simply do not have the 
same numbers. "Asian-American actors 
here are extremely rare, maybe because 
art is not the field that most Asian-
American communities and families 
support for their children," said Vivian 
Umino (SY '91 ), a Theater Studies. 
major. 

Dramat members acknowledg·e 
that Hekah and HTE provide outlets for 
people of color to express their talent. 
Yet some feel these groups segregate the 
theater community. "We don't have a 
lot of minority actors trying out for our 
plays," said Dramat board member 
Yanzel Muniz (TO '91). "When we have 
two black people audition for 
something, we're so happy." Muniz 
explained that Dramat members do not 
want to resort to affirmative action 
casting because they wish to avoid 
tokenism. "We want the best person to 
get cast," she said. 

The Dramat board is discouraged 
by the lukewarm reception that has met 
its attempts to open up its productions. 
Last spring, the Dramat tried to 
collaborate with playwright and 
professor Ngugi wa'Thiong'o 
to 
premiere his play Mama I Will Marry 
When 1 Want. Dramat board members 
were excited about the project. "We 
tried to get rid of the bad relationship in 
the theater community," said Dramat 
President Guy Myers (TO '91). Since 
wa' Thiong' o wanted an a ll African- 
American cast, Dramat staff members 
recruited heavily in that community. 
But not enough people showed up for 
the readings and the play was cancelled 
for lack of interest. 


African-American actors suggest 
that the failure of Mama I Will Marry 
When I Want may have been a matter of 
bad timing. Two other shows that 
involved many African-American actors 
conflicted with scheduled rehearsals for 
wa'Thiong'o's play. "People wanted to 
do it, but they were already 
committed," said Smith. '1t was too last 
minute to have a chance to work out." 
Muniz claims that the Dramat couldn't 
notify African-American actors sooner 
because wa' Thiong' o took so much 
time deciding which play to stage. "We 
really wanted to do the show, and a lot 
of things happened that weren't our 
fault," she said. 

The wa'Thiong' o project indicates 
the Dramat's willingness to sponsor 
productions about people of color. 
While 
African-American 
actors 
complain 
that 
their 
theater 
organizations can't match the resources 
available to the Dramat, Myers points 
out that these resources are up for 
grabs. "I want more people of color to 
come to the Dramat with proposals," 
Myers said. "HTE has never come to us 


**Title: People of Color in Yale's Theater Community**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
--
with a proposal for a certain play, or 
funding, or anything." According to 
McAllister, HTE should take advantage 
of this opportunity. "HTE needs to 
propose a joint project with the Dramat 
so that we can have· another method of 
funding," he said. 

The Dramat's desi re to involve 
people of color is also apparent in a 
mainstage production policy to hire 
only directors who accept non-
traditional casting. Still, the Dramat 
does not supervise the actual process, 
and directors have the final say on who 
"Tell me not to waste my 
time because you're 
looking for a blond girl." 
gets cast. The Board plans to put a 
statement supporting non-traditional 
casting into the organization's by-laws 
this year. 

Some African-American actors are 
annoyed by what they believe to be the 
Dramat's liberal fac;ade. "This is a 
school. We're supposed to be learning 
and 
experimenting. 
If 
they're 
committed to doing good theater, then 
talent should be the number one factor," 
Smith said. '1f we're going to play real 
world, then let's be explicit. Tell me not 
to waste my time because you're 
looking for a blonde girl." 

Smith also criticizes the Theater 
Studies department for not going far 
enough in its policies toward people of 
color. "Recently people of color were 
d ropping out of the Theater Studies 
major like flies/' she said. "There's a lot 
of pressure on the dep artment, and so 
they issued that statement. But the 
department doesn't have any control 
over casting. lt doesn't change the 
situation." 

Theater Studies DUS DeRose has 
noticed that younger students still seem 
October 19, 1990 
· willing to try the major. "I see a far 
larger proportion of students of color in 
Theater Studies 110 than in the past," he 
said. 

The Theater Studies department 
hopes to elicit more input from people 
of color by expanding the role of the 
Student Advisory Committee. 
A 
departmental statement announced new 
initiatives from that committee: "Those 
who feel they represent a body of 
theatrical interest NOT covered by the 
Theater Studies curriculum are 
especially encouraged to apply." HTE's 
McAllister is pleased with the 
department's efforts. "I think the 
Theater Studies department does a 
pretty good job of non-traditional 
casting." 

Yale's theater community hopes 
that the appearance of students of color 
in this fall's musical will help send a 
positive message to the Class of 1994. 
"As a Puerto Rican, I'm really glad that 
Into the Woods got cast as it did," said 
Muniz. "If I were an actress in the 
audience I'd say 'wow, they really do 
cast whoever's good for the part.' 
Maybe that would make me audition." 

People of color see this kind of open 
casting as crucial. "It's a must in an 
integrated society," said Tara Murphy. 
"I want to be cast, not as a political 
statement, but because of my ability as 
an actress." 

After the Dramat began preparing 
for Into the Woods, 
Cassell-Scott 
reconsidered her views about Fiddler. 
"There is tension between blacks and 
Jews in this country and I realized that 
anything we can do to open a dialogue 
is u seful. I have to make sure I don't 
have a knee-jerk reaction like I did with 
Fiddler," she said. Cassell-Scott hopes 
the casting for Tnto the Woods is a step in 
the right direction. "We have to start 
making changes, because the more non-
traditional casting there is, the less 
noticeable and jarring it will be." 
1111 
Emily Bazelon is a sophomore in Pierson 
College. 


**Title: Swords into Plowshares**
**Author: Dennis Pierce**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

Last December, Secretary of Defense Richard Cheney dropped 
a bomb on Textron-Lycoming, a small company in Stratford, 
Connecticut. He announced that Congress had cut funds for 
the M1 tank project. By 1992, all production of M1s-the 
main battle tank of the United States army-would cease. The 
Congressional decision deprived Textron-LycominSt the sole 
manufactuer of M1 engines, of nearly half of its business. 

Then Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait. 

The war looming in the Middle East has given Textron-
,, 
After feasting for years on generous military spending by 
the federal government, Connecticut defense companies like 
Textron-Lyc"oming and UNC now face tougher economic 
times. Connecticut, the nation's most defense-dependent 
state, has been hit hard by military cuts. Of the 13,000 
American workers who lost their defense-industry jobs last 
year, 1,500 lived and worked in Connecticut. Defense-related 
business makes up over seven percent of Connecticut's gross 
state product, and 70 percent of all manufacturing jobs in the 
Lycoming an unexpected 
reprieve. "As many as a 
thousand more tanks may be 
produced before the program 
is eliminated/' said Joe Ciuci, 
head of United Auto Workers 
Local 
1010, 
the 
union 
------------------------- state are defense-related. 

But 
~~connecticut is facing a severe 
problem. The defense cuts could 
devastate our economy. "" 
During the arms build-up 
of the 1980's, Connecticut's 
defense business boomed while 
other industries floundered. 
While manufacturers like 
General Electric and Carpenter 
Steel were shutting down 
plants, military contracts 
company's problems are far 
from solved. Once the last ========================== brought billions of dollars of 
revenue into the state. But now 
engine rolls off the assembly line, 1 ,300 employees may lose 
their jobs. 

Textron is not alone in its predicament. The United 
Nuclear Corporation in Montville, Connecticut also feels the 
crunch from recent defense cuts. UNC produces one thing-
propulsion units for nuclear submarines. The company has 
supplied these units to the Navy for the last 34 years, But last 
March, in an effort to trim its expenses, the Pentagon granted 
an exclusive contract for these units to Babcock and Wilcox, a 
Virginia technologies company. The Defense Department 
plans to phase out UNC over the next two years. By 1993 the 
company will have finished and shipped out its last 
propulsion unit. In the meantime, UNC is laying off workers 
every week. Since January, 352 employees have lost their jobs. 

that defense contractors are firing workers and threatening to 
dose plants, state residents fear the worst. "Connecticut is 
facing a severe problem," said State Senator Thomas Sullivan 
(D-Guilford). "The defense cuts could devastate our 
economy." 

In a state which lost 65,000 manufacturing jobs during the 
1980s, displaced defense workers struggle to find 
employment. "We're seriously concerned about the lay-offs," 
Ciuci said. "It's virtually impossible to find manufacturing 
jobs in this area." Though the state has spent some money to 
retrain workers, most agree that these programs are not·the 
answer. "It doesn't make sense to train people for jobs that 
don't exist," said UNC Vice President Harold Burton. "Unless 
you help create new jobs, you're not doing anyone a favor." 

Many business leaders, Burton included, believe that the 
state must help defense companies develop new products. 
The Connecticut legislature agrees that product diversification 
could cure the industry's ills. Last October it formed 
Connecticut Innovations Incorporated, an organization that 
gives money to companies for product research. "The money 
we provide is an investment, not a grant or a loan," said Burt 
Jonap, CII project director. "In return, we collect royalties 
from the sales of the newly-developed product." Created to 
bolster all of Connecticut's industries, CII devotes much of its 
energy to military contractors. Within a year, Jonap said, CII 
expects to see the first returns on its investments. 

A number of private groups share CJI's concern for 
regional industry. The Naugatuck Valley Project, a coalition 
of sixty-six community groups, was formed in 1983 to rescue 
Connecticut manufacturers from financial trouble. "We've 
saved over 2,700 jobs statewide," said Kevin Bean, NVP's staff



**Title: The New Haven Project**
**Author: Dennis Pierce**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New Haven Project (NYP) uses various approaches to keep struggling businesses from going under. They match prospective buyers with faltering companies, help companies develop new products, and raise money for employee buy-outs. Last May, Textron-Lycoming asked NVP for help. Although the two groups are still talking strategy, Ciuci is optimistic about the plant's prospects. "NYP can help us in a lot of ways," he said. "We should be able to find work from high-tech aerospace industries." Ciuci has some cause for hope. For one thing, Textron-Lycoming makes more than just tank engines. Commercial jet engines account for 4q percent of their business. Even if Textron cannot find a product to replace the M1 engine, the company will most likely remain in business. What's more, by extending the tank contract another two years, the Defense Department gave Textron some breathing room. With the extra time, Textron and NVP may be able to find new jobs for the 1,300 people currently working on the Ml project. 

Unitep Nuclear Corporation has less in its favor. The government's decision to cut UNt out of the deal hit the company from the blind side. In one fell swoop, UNC lost its entire market. "Unfortunately, we can't sell nuclear propulsion units to just anyone," said United Nuclear Corporation Vice-President Bob Bonito.


"We can't sell nuclear propulsion units to just anyone," said Bob Bonito, vice president of human resources for UNC. If the company cannot develop an alternative product, it will be forced to close down. But UNC's product is so highly specialized that the company can't just jump into a new market. "Finding new work in such a small amount of time is extremely difficult," Burton said. "We're starting from scratch." Last spring, UNC applied for a grant from the State Department of Economic Development. In September, Connecticut gave UNC $100,000 to find new markets. Burton, while pleased to have the grant, was frustrated by the lengthy process. "In the four months it took them to make up their minds, 300 people lost their jobs," he said. Andrew Brecher, deputy commissioner of SDED, explained that the UNC grant was the first of its kind. "We don't have a system worked out yet," he said. 

Brecher sympathizes with UNC's plight, but he believes the company is partly to blame. "For years, we've tried to warn defense companies about the possibility of this situation," he said. "But they were much less interested in diversification when the industry was strong." NVP's Kevin Bean, like Brecher, blames defense companies for being short-sighted. For years, he has tried to persuade defense manufacturers to seek alternative markets. Bean stresses that diversification is not a new idea. "There's been legislation on the books to promote diversification since 1972," he said. According to Bean, military contractors made no effort to provide for the future. "When it was sunny, nobody planned for rain," he said. Still, diversification is more easily said than done. Besides scraping together the resources to break into new markets, defense companies must learn a whole new way of doing business. The transition from military contracting to private, commercial marketing is difficult. "Major personnel changes often accompany diversification attempts," Brecher said. "This fact weighs heavily in a company's decision to diversify." Not surprisingly, many defense companies balked at the idea of diversification until contract losses and layoffs forced the issue. 

While CIT and NVP do what they can to help the struggling industry, Bean questions whether these efforts are enough. "On paper, CII and the Nawgatuck Valley Project look okay," he said. "In reality they amount to putting a finger in the dike." Whether or not the levee breaks depends on the ingenuity of the industry, the efficiency of supporting groups and some luck. Textron-Lycoming got a break. UNC did not. Defense contractors are faced with the reality that the 1980s arms build-up is over.


-Dennis Pierce is n junior in Sillimnn College.


**Title:  Untitled Advertisement**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
1111 
:·: 
II II 
•• 
••• 
1111. 
• • 
•'• 
=·= 
Beautiful 
~!! 
Greenhouse 
~.~ 
Dining Room ... 
!~! 
Delicious Goumtet 
1111 ·.· .. 
1111 . . 
.· . 
1111 :·: 
II II ·.· .. 
1111 .. . ·. 
Chinese Food! 
Savor our scrumptious and 
generous portions of the finest 
Szechuan, and Cantonese cuisine. 
We're open for Lunch & Dinner 7 days a week. 
Takeout orders available and all major 
credit cards are honored. 
0 A dl 
HOME VILLAGE 
GOURMET CHINESE RESTAURANT 
X 
2380 Dixwell Avenue, Hamden 
:•: 
At the Calder Shopping Pla2a 
Call 288-54 79 or 288-5328 
x_x-x 
x 
x _ x-x_x x-x _ x_x 
x _



**Title: Yale Quick Copy Center**
**Page number(s): 32**

Yale Quick Copy Center 
Park 
......_ 
AaA 
Daw-rwt 
149 . York --
a£0 il 
nl I I 
WCb 
J 
1 
014ea..-
eou.ce 
Copies 
only 3Ya¢* 
149 York Street 
432-COPY 
(432-2679) 
8 to 5 
Monday-Friday 
Res11mes 
Tabletents 
Posters 
~ 
Course material 
Typesetting from 
Macintosh disks 
&! whatnot 
-Still the lowest 
prices in Elm City 
•per oopy for more than ten oopl.es of the same or1g1nal; 
the pr1oe 1s 4 oents each for one to ten oopl.es.

