Publication date: April 2006
Volume: 38
Issue number: 5

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Romy Drucker
- Editor-in-Chief: Adriane Quinlan
- Managing Editors: Jonny Dach, Helen Eckinger
- Designer: Sara Schneider
- Business Manager: Nick Handler
- Advertising Executive: Matthew Baron
- Senior Editors: Mina Kimes, David Zax
- Production Manager: Nicole Allan
- Research Director: Emify Koh
- Web Designer: Nicholas Moryl
- Circulation and Subscription Manager: Lauren Hamson
- Staff: Julia Wallace, Tess Ivy Wang, Monolith Wall, Lane Rick, Emily Kopley, Gabriel Diaz, Omcha Paige Austin, Sarah Laskow
- Members and Directors: Joshua Civin, Peter B. Cooper, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, David Sjitka, Fred Sttebeigh, Thomas Strong, John Swansburg
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Julia Preston, Laura Rabin, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Steve Ballou, Emily Bazelon, Anson M Beard, Blair Bennett, Edward B. Bennett, Richard Blow, Martha Brant, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M Clark, Constance Clement, Elisha Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Tom Griggs, Stephen Hellman, Jane Kamensky, Brooks Kelley, Roger Lebtalan, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Martha E Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H Newman, Sean O'Brien, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C Randal, Stuart Rohrer, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Adina and David S. Silvan, Thomas Strong, Elizabeth Taft, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

Points of Departure - 
ROTC Goes MIA - Helen Eckinger
Phallacy - Julia Wallace
The Contender - Lauren Harrison
Shots in the Dark - 
The Old College Try - Jonny Dach
Pints for Points - Megan McLaughlin
Keeping an Eye on Iran - Paige Austin
Harmony Displaced - Nick Handler
The Young and the Restless - Sophia Lear
The College Dropout - Nicole Allan
Dewry, Decimated - Melvil Dewey Jr.


**Title: ROTC Goes MIA**
**Author: Helen Eckinger**
**Page number(s): 12**

Four Yales stick with a Corp that long ago left the University.


**Title: The Contender**
**Author: Lauren Harrison**
**Page number(s): 22**

**Title: The Old College Try**
**Author: Jonny Dach**
**Page number(s): 26**

How Yale failed to build two new colleges and how it hopes to succeed


**Title: Keeping an Eye on Iran**
**Author: Paige Austin**
**Page number(s): 32**

A New Haven non-profit documents violations abroad.


**Title: Harmony Displaced**
**Author: Nick Handler**
**Page number(s): 38**

What happens when the shelter gets evicted.


**Title: The Young and the Restless**
**Author: Sophia Lear**
**Page number(s): 42**

**Title: The College Dropout**
**Author: Nicole Allan**
**Page number(s): 44**


**Title: Dewry, Decimated**
**Author: Melvil Dewey Jr.**
**Page number(s): 46**



**Abe, Honestly**
**Author: Elizabeth Gumport**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
lN DOWNTOWN NEW HAVEN, THE WRITING
is quite literally on the wall. On
Court Street
a few buildings down
from the orthographically sinister
awning. of "Cryptonnite Beauty
Salon"
a Viennese furrier has
posted a handwritten note inform-
ing his clients that he will return by
April 20th. Close to Chapel Street, a
plaque commemorates the world's
first
commercial
telephone
exchange, which opened . in 1878
. several hundred feet away from the
current location of a Southwestern
Bell Corporation building. Ghostly
messages traced on its dusty win-
dows read "Dixwell" and "7 -26-
02." On the other side of the same
building, at the corner of Court and
State Streets, two plaques hang next
to _each other. One is an unexpected
and well-ornamented tribute to the
1856 founding of a B'nai B'rith
lodge; the other plaque causes one
to pause.

Installed on March 6th, 1976,
the plaque bears a quotation from a
speech Abraham Lincoln gave in
New Haven on that same date 116
•
years earlier. During his campaign
for pt;esident in 1860, Lincoln
toured
Connecticut,
speaking
forcibly against the extension of
the institution of slavery. The
plaque on Court Street, however,
focuses not on slavery but on labor-
ers' right to strike:

4

I'm glad that a system of labor
prevails in
ew England under
which laborers can strike when
'
. thry want to. . . J like the system
which lets a man quit when he
wants to . .. One of the reasons
I am opposed to slavery is just
here.

Appropriately, the Bicentt:nnial
Labor Commission of Greater New
Haven sponsored the Court Street
plaque.

·

The strike to which Lincoln
refers was not confined to New
Haven. Earlier that year, shoemak-
ers in Massachusetts had gone on
strike, inciting twenty thousand
shoemakers across New England to
join the movement. In the years fol-
lowing
Lincoln's speech, New
Haven would. see a number of sim-
ilar labor movements. Printers went
on strike after a typesetting quarrel
broke out between newspapers, and
an 1871 issue of The 'New Haven
Evening Register enigmatically report-
ed~ c'Some days ago, Quigley's
plumbers were said to have been on
a strike. That announcement was a
mistake. All the plumbers but those
at Quigley's were on a strike, and
they have probably returned to
their work by this time."

The rights of laborers, then,
were certainly relevant to those
who listened to Lincoln's speech.
Yet the plaque's declaration that
Lincoln spoke "against slavery and
for labor's rights" is rnisleading.
Although Lincoln advocated for
laborers' rights, his words are
embedded in a larger anti-slavery
argument and are often considered
sitnply one of the means by which
he campaigned against slavery. In
fact, the fust ellipsis on the sign
~·
t
..
' '
stands in for Lincoln's praist; of
workers who "are not tied · down
and obliged to labor whether you
pay them or not." This rhetoric of
bondage, deliberately omitted. by
the plaque's designers, reminds us
that, in New Haven, Lincoln was
primarily speaking against slavery~

In The Library of America's collec-
tion of his writings, the speech runs
17 pages long, and t~ paragraph
from which the Bicentennial Labor
.,.
Commission
of
Greater . New
Haven drew their quotation "is one
of the very few moments that
Lincoln refers to the labor move-
ment. This particular· speech ·is
more often · remembered for the
extended passage in which he com-
pares slavery to a "venomous
snake" in bed with children.

In transforming the sound of
Lincoln's voice into metal, the
Bicentennial Labor Commission
also performed an act of referential
alchemy, compelling the quotatioq
to stand in tribute to labor unions.
It all likelihood, the conunission
wished to honor · the. New Haven
public school teachers_ who were
arrested for striking the year before
the plaque was commis~ion~d.

Like the flyers an_d awnings that
run along Court Street, the plaque
is an advertisement, selling o~e par-
ticular interpretation of history--· -
with Abraham Lincoln
as its
spokesman. This street corner is a
lesson . in how history is made,
reminding us that to quote . is
always, perhaps, to tnisquote. After
all, I .incoln hianself
against
his opponents' tendency to create
'11E NEW JOURNAL


**Mad Props**
**Author: Rebecca Livengood**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

"WEIJ., WE WRAPPED A BOLSTER PII.I.OW
into a circle and covered it with yel-
low cloth. Then we found a giant
inflatable duck, you know, like the
kind that a child would sit on. And
we cut off its head and stuffed
h
"

No, this is not a tidbit from a
particularly traumatizing episode of
Martha Stewart Living. It's Alison
Merrick's
description
her
favorite aspect of her job. As Props
Assistant at the Yale University
Theater, Merrick is the woman in
charge of fip.ding and creating
April2006
props for the eighty productions
the theater stages each season.

When the theater agrees to put
up a show, Merrick and her boss,
Props Master Brian Cookson, pro-
duce props in a number of ways. If
the show has been in production
elsewhere, as this winter's colorful
Brundibar was, it may arrive at the
University Theater with a
full
smorgasbord of props. A director
then decides whether to add or
replace
items.
For
Brundibar,
Merrick dreamt up two tnajor
props: a giant ball of yarn, created
by wrapping a yoga ball in string;
and a baker's tray bearing techni-
color t nuffins. The ball of yarn was
an entirely new addition, the tray, a
replacement for an inferior version
used in earlier perforn1.ances. "This
one is bigger and lighter and more
colorful,'
she
ays.
"And
it
wiggle !"

On the other hand, if the show
debuts at the University Theater,
Merrick and Cookson must build
all of the props themselves. They
begin with props already at their
disposal in the theater's warehouse,
isolated in an industrial area
between Fair Haven and Wooster
Square. The warehouse shares an
enormous space with Tile America,
so as visitors move into floorspace
owned by the University Theater,
the shelves' contents shift from
painted plaster tiles to clunky type-
writers and paisley armchairs.

Props are arranged on the
shelves by type. Populating one
area, like the remnants of an aban-
doned men's room, are three full
toilets, a urinal, and several toilet
seats of various colors. Behind a
pre-stuffed bra made of gold lame
lies a carton of other accessories
that actors use to augment their
5


"You can buy pie boxes, obvi-
ously," she says. "But the ones ·we
found didn't look enough like pie
boxes." When functional objects
from real life don't serve the aes-
thetic needs of performed
life, Merrick must create
new objects. If com-
pelling items cannot
be found in cata-
logues or among
the piles at
the · ware-
house, . she
must
use
yards of . fab-
ric, inflatable
animals,
and
scraps of hard-
ware to create
larger-than-life
. objects: a pie box
pie-boxier than
any
cardboard
container
that
has ever held a
p1~, or an enor-
mous
ball

postures: walking sticks, canes, and
scepters. Objects that are more
trickier to categorize are strewn
among the piles: A lonesome deer
torso keeps quiet vigil over a forest
of baby carriages and computer
boxes. The props create a feeling of
surrealism. After walking by two
stuffed arms sporting painted-red
fngernails, one feels one has stum-
bled into a Dali painting.

The sheer quantity of. props
makes it easy to forget the effort
that went into each individual
object. They are stored so carefully
because many are hand-crafted
entirely
frorn
raw
materials.
Merrick lists a few props she ha
constructed, among them car ,
trees, and pie boxes. I find the la t
example surprising: Can't he ju t
buy pie boxes?

6

The Peabotjy celebrated this bronze sculpture at Dinosaur Dqys 2006.

yarn that could
crush a real cat
to death. While we often under-
stand how everyday objects are
made
we see the man at Yorkside
fold the boxes, and we watch the
kitten unravel the yarn
props
exist outside of effort and func-
tion. On stage, they seem so real,
so alive, o magical that without an
occa·sional glimpse of the dusty,
discarded head of an inflatable
duck, one can almost believe that
the are.


**Dig It**
**Page number(s): 6**

Ir BIRD HALL 0
THE TOP FLOOR OF
the Peabody Museum, surrounded
by ruffed waterfowl, a young man
named Ti1m Fa ano
its behind a
box of crayon and a stack of card-
stock. Today is the last Saturday in
February, and there are still a fe~
hours to go until the end of
Dinosaur Days 2006, an annual
week-long event dedicated to the·
giant reptiles that roamed the,
Earth over 65 million years ago.
Fasano is a senior at Hopkins
. '
School who has volunteered at the
Peabody Museum for the past two
years. "All of the events run
together" he reminisces, "but I
remember the hats." His booth
offers Peabody visitors the chance
to construct dinosaur headgear. A.
gloating tod4ler struts by wearing a
Tyrannosaurus rex hat
by
this~
time in the afternoon, Fasano has
run out of that particular species.

Celebrated for over twenty,
years,
Dinosaur
Days
is
the
longest-standing annual event at
~
I
the Peabody. Today, exc1ted young-
sters trailed by bedraggled parents
flll the Great Hall, built in 1929 to
house the enormous Apatosaurus·
skeleton that still dominates ' the
space. A flve-year old girl stanles
herself while gazing at the giant
skull of the long-extinct carnivore,;
while two slightly older boys point
i
excitedly to the smoking volcanoes
and swooping pterodactyl depicted
in the The Age of Reptiles mural
above.

This year's Dinosaur Days is
especially signiflcant due to the the
recently
unveiled
bronze
Torosaurus latus sculpture gracing
the Museum's lawn. The dinosaur's
likeness is scattered throughout the
museum's interior
and on its
inhabitants' heads. A sign on the
second-floor landing proclaim_s:'
"Torosaurus:
A
Peabody
Dinosaur."
David Heiser,
museum's
Event
Coordinator,
proudly explains how Peabody visi-
tors recently had a chance to use
the clay left over from the sculp-
ture's full-scale model to create
their own Torosaurus sculptures.



**Dinosaur Days**
**Author: Meredith Wall**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Dinosaur Days is a kid's dream. 
Volunteer Fasano believes that, if 
the museum can get kids interested 
in natural history on a basic ''!-like-
hats" level, they may develop a real 
passion for the subject as they 
grow older. Fasano would know He 
attributes his own desire to learn 
about natural history to the toy 
dinosaurs he played with as a child. 
In the Hall of Mammals, the 
fossils buried in the 3' x 3' sandbox 
are · real, and each child can take 
one home in an envelope with a 
description of its type and age. 
Shekar Menon, one of several vol-
unteers monitoring the mini pale-
opt~logists, 
explains, 
"their 
favorites are the shark teeth" as he 
--
shakes his .hea-d at a greedy three-
. ., .# 
ye~~:-_ol(} _.whq wants to take home 
---.;:, 
_,. 
. 
more. th~n~ne. When I request to 
join i!}~~~non kindly explains that, 
• 
while I have outgrown the fossil 
dig, there are plenty of Dinosaur 
Days activities aimed at an older 
audience. Elaine Hitt, a volunteer 
at the hat display, agrees. "Lots of 
times we have three generations," 
she says, gesturing at the fan1ilies 
making hats together. Just for a 
while, I try to act my age and read 
placards, but after four or five sci-
entific descriptions of giant turtles 
and flightless birds, I want to be a 
kid again. 


**Variations on a Theme**
**Author: Tess Dearing**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

"GENILEMEN, IN AU. PROBABILITY YOU 
are writing better now than you will 
ever write again." The year was 
1952, and Edward Weeks, a guest 
lecturer at Yale and then-Editor-in-
Chief of Atlantic Month!J, stared 
down from a podium at an attentive 
group of Yale men: star students 
from the English Departrnent's 
Daily Themes class. Gaddis Stnith 
peered 
back. 
Now 
Professor 
April2006 
' 
Emeritus of History, Smith believes 
Weeks was right. He and his class-
mates probably never regained the 
intense "spontaneity and energy" 
that breathed so freely through 
their best themes.- In 19 52, Daily 
Themes was already a legend, and 
over the years it has only become 
more mythic. Along with Smith, 
legendary men of letters such as 
Calvin Trillin and William 
F. 
Buckley have graced its roster and 
gone on to write about the course 
in their memoirs. 

The class first appeared in the 
Yale curriculum as "Short Themes" 
in 1903 and was christened "Daily 
Themes" by Assistant Professor of 
English C.S. Baldwin in 1907. John 
Berdan taught from 1907 until 1941 
and as Professor Smith recalls, he 
was the man who really "invented 
Daily Themes." In Calvin Trillin's 
1966 New Yorker article about the 
class, he lists Berdan's eight slogans: 
"Individualize by Specific Detail! 
Vivify 
by 
Range 
of Appeal! 
Characterize 
Speech 
and 
Gesture! Clarify by Point of View! 
Unify by a Single Impression! 
Combine Details for Coherence! 
Charge Words with Connotation! 
Choose Words for their Sounds!" 

Richard Sewell, a revered English 
professor and the first master of 
-
Ezra 
Stiles 
College, 
echoed 
Berdan's maxi rns when he took 
over the course in the 1940s. 
As 
described 
Trillin, 
Sewell's words at a teaching 
conference highlighted his 
predecessor's legacy: "Sewell 
c 
a 
I 
e ·· d 
'Individualize by 
Specific 
Detail' 
the eye opener in 
Daily 
Themes' 
attempt to revtve 
the sensitivity to 
detail ... a 
'return 
to the vivid, hon-
est, 
direct 
Writing daity can be a 
~- - --~ 
-~ 
~
obs_ervation of children."' Half a• 
century after taking the class, Smith 
still clearly ·remembers being taught 
to characterize through detail: "Do 
not write: 'John was an angry man.'-
Write: 'John kicked the dog down 
the stairs."' The example is a critical' 
lesson for any serious ·writer. After' 
a decline in the sixties culminated in· 
the course's two-year absence from 
the curriculum, John Hollander 
revived the class in 1979. 

Today's Daily Themes students 
' •• 
must attend lecture every Tuesday 
and write a 250-300 word theme 
every weekday, and discuss their! 
written themes in a weekly tutorial. 
Each week focuses on a different 
aspect of writing: Point of View, 
Diction, 
Journals, 
Sentence· 
Rhythms, and so on. According to· 
> 
the current professor of Daily 
Themes Bill Deresiewicz, some of 
these topics focus on "writing at 
the most atomic level; some are. 
forms of narrative, and some are 
elements of narrative." At the lec-
ture, the professor reads selections 
by authors who have tackled the' 
week's topic with particular aplomb.' 
Sometirnes, the writers themselves 
took 
the 
course. 
And 
yet not 
everyone in Daily Themes wants 
to pursue writing professionally. 
Although 
few 
will 
actually 
become novelists, poets, or jour-
nalists, Professor Deresiewicz 
treats all as if they wilL He 
believes that "to be a writer is to 
live a certain kind of life. It's 
about learning to look at the 
world, taking a responsibility for 
the truth. If you· are deciding to 
do that, you are throwing the 
weight of your soul behind it." 

For a single semester, Daily 
Themes' students are united 
with each other and with their 
predecessors by their common 
decision to make a commitment 
to the writing life. 

As the Daily Themes student 
sits down every night at a laptop, 
staring in haggard anguish at the 
cursor ticking across a blinking 
white screen, an insatiable lover 
whispers in his ear, relentlessly 
goading. The lover is notorious-
ly brutal, but perversely sweet.' 
The writer must continually 
rekindle passion, refine emotion, 
plumb experience: He recalls .the. 
generations of Yale students 
before him as they too must 
have stared at blank paper, 
absently fiddling with fountain 
pens. Encouraged by this bond, 
student 
might 
begin: 
"Charles stared at the blank 
white door to his study. He knew 
Katerina had heard him come in; 
he could hear her arranging die 
folds of her dressing gown 
across the sofa, every detail cal-
culated to unsettle him into sub-
mission. But he could only sigh. 
For the hundredth time, his 
-- . 
hand twitched on the doorknob. 
Daily, he could not resist he~ 


**The Franke Lectures in the Humanities**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 8**

Spring 2006 
Whitney Humanities Center 
Yale University, 53 Wall Street 
"The 
of Biography" 
JACKMII.ES 
Author of "God: A Biography" 
"The Monstrous in Fiction 
& Biography" 
TUESDAY, APRIL 18, 5 P.M., AUDITORIUM 
Reception itn•nediately following, Rootn 108 
The Franke Lectures are made possible by the generosity of 
Richard and Barbara Franke, and are intended to present important 
topics in the Hmnanities to a wide and general audience. The 2006 
series will celebrate biography as a litera r y genre and method of history. 
For information contact Manana Sikic- hone 203 432-0673 ore-mail man-
ana.siki 
'ale.edu 
Free and open to the public 


YOUR SUPPORT IS ESSENTIAL TO OUR FUTURE, AND WE APPRECIATE IT • 
HE. 
TEFULTO OUR 
I. 
OUR 39TH REUNION WAS A SMASHING SUCCESS! T 
I< YOU TO ALL WHO 
PARTICIPATED IN TilE FESI'IVITIES, AND TilE FOLLO 
G DONORS:

ecza 
J. N eela Banerjee 
Daniel Brook 
Hilary Callahan 
David Freeman 
David Greenberg 
Laura Heymann 
Tina Kelley 
Eli Kintisch 
Katherine Kress 
-Kehoe 
Audrey Leibovich 
Laura Pappano 
Jennifer Pitts 
Lauren Rabin 
Barnett Rubin 
Betsy Sledge 
John Stella 
Fred Strebeigh 
Blake Wilson 
Margarita 
anle


**Title: The Master's Phallic Symbol**
**Author: Julia Wallace**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"It's a helmet."· · 
"It's a gun." 
"It's a gun wearing a helmet." 
"It's a droopy mushroom." 
"It's very ... vertical. It's sort of, urn-" 
"It's a penis." 
It's the sculpture outside my , 
window 
stunningly ugly, 
brutishly tall, bizarrely 
sensual. To me, it 
looks like a 
craggy 
polyp; to , ···• 
.. . 
others.-
o k a y ·, ··•.· 
' . 
many oth- ··• 
ers 
it's 
a 
• 
g 
1 a n 
t 
emblem 
not . 
of. .. masculinity. 
Objectively, . it's 
much more than a broadly 
curved surface on top of sever- , • 
allong, twisted pillars. But any ..... 
. 
:· 
way you look at "it, it's a jarring • .•.•.. ••· 
addition to the stone-and-
brick faux-Gothic aesthetic 
of 
Jonathan 
Edwards 
College. 


Perched on a poured-
concrete patio 
in the 
-
fenced-in space behind the . -
' 
Master's House, it domi- t > 
•····· 
nates the route from the ·•· .: •·.: 
. . 
dining hall to the college · ·. · 
gate. Every JE student \ 
·. 
passes it daily, but a surpris-
ing number of people have 
never noticed the thing. 
Few have even registered 
the fact that their walkway 
borders the Master's back-
yard, a tiny garden space A statue thrusts out if the JE Cour!Jard. 
fenced off from the college courtyard, 
where the college bigwigs 
white-
haired fellows, special guests 
mingle 
during the college's Thursday evening 
garden parties, guzzling botdes of wine, 
nodding with approval at '"'the fme barn-
yard notes of this Bordeaux." 
The phallic center-
.·· .··.····.· .. ·····•. ·• .•· ·. piece of these gatherings 
arrived ·in JE in the 
spring of 1998, 
when Gary 
.. Haller 
· was 
fin-
... · ishing up 
his 
first 
year 
as 
· Master . 
Haller, 
professor of 
chemistry, 
· studies 
het-
erogeneous 
catalysis 
by 
day, but his 
extracurncu-
lar passions 
c e n t e r 
around 
the 
art world. An 
avid collector 
figurative 
drawings 
par-
ticularly 
those 
depicting 
nude 
form-
Hailer has exhib-
ited a broad array 
of paintings and 
photographs 
since taking up 
his · post in JE. 
His 
curatorial 
10 
l 
contacts at . the Yale University Art 
Gallery thought of him when the long-
term renovation of the Gallery's sculp-
ture garden began, and one of them had 
the bright idea to evacuate the sculpture 
across the street to Jonathan Edwards. A 
crane was duly procured, and the statue 
was, in turn, lifted, rolled, and pushed 
into the Master's garden. It has neyer left. 
The Art Gallery has never ~asked.- for it 
back, and there has never been· a formal 
agreement about its status 
only, as 
Master Haller puts it, Han unders~ding.'; 
The first year, a group of students 
opposed the statue so vehemendy that 
they circulated a petition for its removal. 
Haller dug in his heels: "It's my back-
yard, and the sculpture stays!" he told 
them. By 1999, though, the residents of 
JE had loosened up enough to adopt 
the thing as a sort of mascot. "They 
started ca11ing it 'the Master's phallic 
symbol,"' Haller ruefully recalls, "and 
that was that." Once, a student even 
asked to deck the statue with Christmas 
lights for the holiday season. Master 
Haller approved the project, but an emi-
nent professor of Art History was so 
incensed with the Hdisrespectful viola-
tion of the integrity of the piece" that 
nobody dared touch it again. 


When I ask Master Haller how he 
feels about the integrity of the piece, he 
gt ins. ''Well ... I like it now. It took a 
while. When they first asked me to take 
it, I said, 'It's not my favorite piece ... but 
it's not unattractive.' Now it's become 
attractive because it's familiar." But what 
is it, anyw~y? The Master thrusts a huge 
book at me: ''Here, take this. I don't 
really know anything. I don't even know 
what's in this book." 

It turns out that the sculpture is, 
indeed, a helmet of sorts. It's called 
Floating Helmets and was envisioned by 
the Greek-American artist Dimitri Hadzi 
in 1963 as one of a series of sculptures 
of helmets. These pieces are variously 
said to evoke the warriors of the ancient 
world, the devastating mushroom clouds 
of modern warfare, and 
of course-
sex. Or, as one art historian puts it, there 
is a highly "dominant phallic content" 
that brings "sexual overtones ... to an 
aggressive extreme." Hadzi seems to be 
one of those perennially underappreciat-
ed artists who resurface every few years 
just long enough for their supporters to 
make desultory pleas for relevance. One 
such supporter, Hadzi's longtime friend 
Seamus Heaney, writes (perhaps a bit too 
raptut_ously) of Hadzi's 
sculptures, 

"They excite the viewer's whole being, 
making it want to Jly round and round in 
delighte~reconnaissance." 

Perhaps.--: -. -
.~
ri 
V 
But 't;:.Q.p§t 6f us never take the tirne to 
,.....,_ .. 
'r 
look a(fthe thing in the first place. We 
don't care about the sculpture except as a 
joke 
Master's 
phallic 
symbol 
indeed! 
and why should we? After all, 
what does it mean to live with a piece of 
art? To make fun of it. To bring it down 
to our level 
or to let our simple, unwit-
ting ignorance bring it down. It gets nick-
named. It get compared to body parts. 
For better or for worse, it doesn't make a 
big difference to anything or anyone:-
it's no Mona Lisa, after all-and as we pass, 
it quickly fades into a forgotten form. We 
think instead about ourselves. Ten feet 
from the statue, two JE students are in 
conversatlon. 
''I'm learning about symbio-... symbo-
lo-... symbiology," a freshman girl spits 
out proudly. 
"Uh, what's that?" her companion asks. 
"U m, it's symbols," she says. ''I .ike what 
· 
mean and why." They walk off into 
the heat of the day, away from the shadowy 
crevices of the college they call hor r 1e, 
oblivious to the floating helmets of 
Floating Helmets looming above, and what 
they mean, and why. 
julia Wallace is a senior in Jonathan Edwards 
T ~ J 
April2006 
11 




**Title: Yale ROTC**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In 1950, over half of Yale's undergraduate population participated in the military's Reserve Office Training Corp (ROTC)-the c:Qllege student's alternative to taking his chances with the  . ' draft. In addition to their normal coursework, they performed drills, took Military Science courses, and, perhaps most daunt-ingly, signed away the four years following graduation to become officers in the military. In exchange, they received Yale credit for their ROTC coursework, considerable financial aid, and, in an era when military service was almost compulsory, were able to exercise some control over how they would go about serving.


Half a century later, the basic ROTC program remains unchanged: Cadets perform drills, take military-prep courses, and commit at least four post-graduate years to serving as officers in the military. ROTC participation at Yale, however, looks very different. The overwhelming number of students who participated during its hey-day has been reduced to single digits. And, whereas in the 19 50s Yale students only had to walk across campus to participate in ROTC training, their dri11s now begin with an hour and a half-long car ride.


Every Thursday morning at 10:30, Yale Senior M:;~.tthew Hammerle pulls on a dull-green flight suit, climbs into a rental car, and drives 65 miles to ROTC training at the University. of Connecticut. On one particular Thursday last fall, he and Jason Pam.pena, a fellow cadet, stood waiting in front of Payne Whitney Gym for their rental car to be delivered. However, on this particular Thursday, Enterprise Rent-A-Car failed to pass inspection. This particular Thursday, Enterprise was late. 10:30 passed, 10:40 passed, 10:50 passed. Finally, a taxi pulled up to the curb and not one, not two, but three Enterprise representatives crawled out of the backseat. Apparently they lacked the personnel to drive the car over. They wanted Hammerle and Pampena to w~ the five blocks to Enterprise headquarters on Crown Street, but, after a quick negotiation, they, not Hammerle and Pampena, were trudging down the sidewalk, and the two cadets were in the taxi, speeding towards the car lot. As they climbed out, yet another Enterprise representative materialized. "Hey Matt, what's up buddy," he said, handing Hammerle the keys to a gray Mazda. A brief search for the car in question ensued, but finally, Hammerle and Pampena were in transit thirty minutes behind schedule. "I have no idea what happened back there," Hammerle said as he turned the car out of the lot and headed towards the highway.


s the two drove northeast, their conversation drifted away from Yale and towards ROTC. Pampena, a sophomore, had only recently begun attending ROTC classes and was unsure whether he was comfortable making a binding committnent to the military. He was so new to the program that he had yet to be issued a uniform unlike the majority of the underclass cadets, he still wore a button-down shirt and khaki pants . And, as he was coming to realize, the distance between New Haven and Storrs, where the University of Connecticut is located, poses more of an. obstacle for the Yale cadets than simply a long drive. Like any organization, ROTC has a social component, and Pampena wasn't sure how to go about inaking friends with fellow cadets he saw only once per week. "Get involved with these people outside of ROTC," Hammerle advised him. "Do some of the fundraising events." A senior, Hammerle was in his fourth year of ROTC. Just as Pampena's civilian clothes marked him as a newcomer, Hammerle's uniform placed him among the elite of his ROTC division. His flight suit indicated his status as a jet pilot one of the most coveted positions in the Air Force .


ROTC consists of three main components: classroom seminars, drill training, and physical fitness. The Air Force cadets attend training once per week, and are required to attend a Saturday session once or twice per semester. But that day's session promised two key deviations from the routine. Late in the afternoon, there would be a physical fitness test in preparation for an official exam the following week. And Jason had heard rumors that there would be an inspection.


Cadets in shorts and t-shirts, sweating through repetitions of sit-ups, push-ups, and laps around a track while yelping cadence is perhaps one of the images most commonly associated with ROTC. But while a cadet's performance on physical fitness tests affects whether he gets his desired job in the Air Force, the minimwn requirements are, according to Hammerle, quite lax. Essentially, ph~ical training is just one way the military exacts its c~ef requirement from its officers: discipline. "It says a lot intrinsically ahout how dedicated to the program you are," Hammerle said. "If you don't meet the requirements, one, that's pretty bad; two, you aren't trying at all."


The inspection Pam.pena anticipated is also about more than shiny buttons and ironed dress blues. "The idea is to make sure the younger cadets know how to wear their uniform and that the older cadets are still keeping neat," Hammerle said. "It teaches discipline you have to stand at attention for an extended period of time." "What happens if you have to sneeze while at attention?" Pampena asked . Hammerle laughed. "Umm ... hold it?" he said, half-questioningly. "I mean, if you have to sneeze, you have to sneeze, but it's about discipline." The premium the military places on discipline transcends the walls of the classroom. As representatives of the Air Force, the officers are expected to embody its values in their public and private lives Hammerle, peppered his speech with asides such as "this is just my opinion, not the Air Force's." To uphold the reputation of the Air Force is a weighty responsibility, especially for ROTC cadets who will, on average, work full time for the military by the age of 22. When his fellow Yale seniors are tentatively acclimariz1ng to the world beyond col-lege, Hammerle will be thrown in head-first. On May 20, he receives his commission as a Second Lieutenant.


nce they arrive at Storrs, Hammerle and Pampena split up. Pampena joins his fellow sophomores for a history lesson while Hammerle and the other senior cadets seat themselves around a table in a drab, gray conference room. The room is equipped with computers, projection equipment, and fancy speaker phones, the last of which hold the cadets' attention. Each week, part of their classroom time is devoted to telephoning an officer in the Air Force. This week their mentor is Lieutenant Ian Young, who boasts 15 years_ of military experience ten as an p f£!t:er and has been stationed in locales ~ "far-flung as Djibouti, Germany, and Florida. One by one, in brisk, official to.,..t;~s/~e · caqets present him with questions such as: "Sir, what is jt like to be married to a fellow officer?" "Sir, you are prior enlisted what are the best leadership qualities you've seen implemented by an officer?" "Sir, what is a typical day like as a maintenance officer?" "Sir, what culture differences did you encounter between the Air Force and Marines in Africa?" "Sir, what is it like coming back to the U.S. from overseas?"


Their questions and Young's answers emphasized that these cadets are not merely preparing for a job; they are preparing for a lifestyle. Like Lieutenant Young, they will return from abroad to find that their farniHes are doing just fine without thetn. They will squabble with Marines over stolen video games. They will conduct search and rescue missions in 120 degree heat. All of these may occur during their tour of duty in the Air Force.


fter thcir phone call to Young, the senior cadets are given a brief break. Some adjourn to the ROTC lounge, where they snack, recount weekend exploits, and coordinate logistics for an upcoming movie night. Others-UCoon students dash across campus to attend their other, academic classes. No matter how late they are, the uniformed cadets salute one another as they cross paths. While they don't come close to out-numbering their civilian peers, they are a visible presence on campus. And this points to the m ost difficult part of Hammerle and his fellow Yale cadets' decision to participate in the program: There is no ROTC program at Yale.


ammerle, two other Air Force cadets, and a lone Arrny cadet compose Yale's entire ROTC contingent. But in the not-too-distant past, Yale did have a strong involvetnent in ROTC. Professor Gaddis Smith, who is about to publish a book titled Yale in the 2rfh Century, explained succinctly why Yalies were once drawn to the program: In the 1950s, "ROTC was a way of getting through college without getting drafted" But Yale's relationship with military training began even before the conception of · the ROTC program. For a number of years after the Civil War, Yale students perfoned rudimentary 1 oilitat y exercises to satisfy the conditions of a federal grant. The grant was eventually withdrawn, and until World War I, Yale lacked a milita t y presence. "When World War I broke out in 1914, a great many students, alumni, and even the president of the University belie ed very srrongl in military pre-paredness," Smith said. 'CVale established 15



**ROTC at Yale**
**Author: Helen Eckinger**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Bef!Ji Hurlburt, secotzd from the right, stands with follow Air Force ROTC cadets. 
its own, private, privately-funded military 
training program 
while the U.S. was 
neutral." 

In 1916, when war with Germany 
seemed . inevitable, Congress officially 
established the current form of ROTC. 
Yale was one of the charter members. 

Almost immediately, the faculty expressed 
its unhappiness that courses such as 
"Stable Management" counted for Yale 
College credit, but the program went 
largely unchallenged for five decades. 
During that rime, Yale students fought in 
the two World Wars in such great numbers 
that, according to Smith, "the only civil-
ians remaining at Yale were either very 
young, or in some cases old or disabled." 
But in the face of the Vietnam War, 
attitudes towards the military at Yale 
became highly unfavorable. "The anti-war 
movements at Yale and around the coun-
try .. . saw ROTC as the symbol of 
University support in an immoral war," 
Smith said. Etnboldened by anti-war and 
anti-ROTC sentiments, Yale professors 
finally acted on their long-standing dissat-
isfaction with the program. Supported by 
the Yale Corporation, professors present-
ed the Pentagon with a list of changes 
ROTC would have to implement in order 
to stay on campus: Students would no 
longer receive Yale College credit for 
ROTC courses; ROTC instructors would 
lose their titles as Yale professors; and 
whereas previously, the military had not 
allowed them to pursue studies in certain 
departments such as Art History or 
Anthropology, ROTC students would be 
free to major in whatever subject they 
wished. The Pentagon rejected the faculty 
proposal, and · in 1969, ROTC was 
expelled from Yale. 


oday, ROTC and Yale are tenu-
ously 
linked. 
Because 
the 
University lacks an ROTC battal-
ion; interested students must travel to 
nearby campuses that do host them: Army 
ROTC is hosted by Sacred Heart, and Air 
Force ROTC by the University of 
·c onnecticut's Storrs campus. No school 
in Cqnnecticut offers N avy ROTC. 
N onetheless, Yale still provides some 
support for its ROTC students. It pays 
for the rental cars, tardy though they may 
be, that the cadets drive to the University 
of Connecticut and Sacred Heart every 
week. It also provides them with a uni-
versity-affiliated ROT C advisor: Yale's 
Director 
of 
System 
Engineering 
Facilities, Jerry Hill. 

Hill was chosen as ROTC advisor by 
former Yale College Dean Richard 
Brodhead, who deemed his twenty years 
of ser vice in the Navy "appropriate life 
experience." His role is primarily logisti-
cal; he serves as a liaison between Yale 
students and ROTC officials. 

ver the years, various groups 
have tried to bring ROTC back 
to Yale. The most recent failed 
attempt was championed by the Yale 
College Republicans during the 2004-
2005 school year. As in 1969, today's 
ROTC proponents are challenged by a 
war that is largely unpopular among Yale 
students. But unlike in 1969, when the 
academic veracity of ROTC was the 
other key point of tension, it is now the 
military's "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy 
that has turned many faculty and stu-
dents against on-campus recruitment. 
Professors and students at the law 
school have flied a series of lawsuits 
against the Department of Defense to 
protest the Solomon Amendment, a . 
piece of legislation mandating that any 
university receiving federal~undltig allow 
military recruitment on its ca.inpus .. ~d, 
~ 
during the Yale College Republican's 
recent attempt to reinstate the prbgram, 
Yale University President Richard Levin 
publicly sounded off on the issue, 
announcing that he found the "Don't 
Ask, Don't Tell" policy "shameful." 

n spite of the controversy associat-
ed with ROTC, neither Hammerle, 
nor Benji Hurlburt, another Air 
Force ROTC cadet, has encountered 
much campus criticism for their ROTC 
participation. They both point to an inci-
dent that occurred last spring while they 
were manning a ROTC information 
booth during Bulldog Days as the only 
memorable exception. 
''A girl was handing out 'Lies About the 
Militat y' fliers right next to our table," 
Hurlburt recalled "Mostly, people just ask 
me what it's about, though." 
''My friends think my tmiform's pretty 
cool," he added. 

either Hammerle nor Hurlburt 
portrays his decision to enroll in 
ROTC 
as 
overtly 
political. 
Hamr nerle saw it as a way to show his 
gratitude . for the comforts afforded by 
American citizenship. ''I haven't had a lot 
to worry about," he said. ''I thought I had 
to give something back to my country, and 


military service is. a way to do that." 
Hammerle also sees his future career as 
an Air Force jet pilot as one he can easily 
translate 
to 
civilian 
sphere. 
"Leadership is something I'm definitely 
looking into," he said. He is also aware 
that, as a Yale student, his desire to pursue 
leadership opportunities does not set him 
apart. ''A lot of people at Yale want to be 
leaders, but they don't want to do it 
through military service." Pointing to the 
political ambitions of many Yale students, 
Hammerle added, ''Truthfully, I think that 
the American people would be very skep-
·tical of someone who's going to be send-
ing our troops into battle without having 
· been there himsel£" 

Aside from ROTC, there are other 
routes that college students can pursue if 
ithey want to receive officers' commis-
r 
. 
~jons upon graduating. All college gradu-
ates are eJigibfe to apply to Officer 
CandKfate School, a 14-week training 
or~~ ~,_.... 
-
pr~g~ 
"'tiJ-at, like ROTC, prepares them 
to ert~tf tlie tni1i~ as officers. The U.S. 
..,. 
Marine Corp. also offers a Platoon 
'I eaders Course, in which aspiring offi-
cers complete training over the course of 
two summers. According to Hill, approx-
imately twenty Yale students currently 
participate in the program, and part of its 
appeal lies in that it requires a weaker 
commiunent than ROTC. 
''When you graduate, you are not 
to join the Marines, nor are they 
obliged to take you," said-Yale's ROTC 
advisor, Jerry Hill. ''They have a no-harm 
approach there." 

ROTC, by contrast, does require its 
cadets to join the military upon gradua-
tion, and they usnal1y make a binding 
couunitment by the end of their sopho-
more year. It also requires students to 
conunit a sizeable amount of time to the 
miJitary while they are in college. Yet, the 
progra.tn has its own advantages over 
other forms of officer 
· · . Most 
notably, while the Platoon Leaders Course 
provides students with some financial aid 
for college, ROTC is one of the few pro-
of any kind that offers students siz-
able anerit-based scholarships. 
~'If you're a middle-class family and 
can't apply for financial aid but can't 
quite afford to send your kid to a place 
like Yale, the ROTC scholarship is a 


good way to go," Hill said. 

Not all ROTC students are on schol-
arship, and many have reasons aside 
from financial aid to join the military. 
Hill noted that a number of recent Yale 
cadets have joined Air Force ROTC 
because they want to become pilots. But 
in almost the same breath, he empha-
sized that he believes ROTC students 
are at least partially tnotivated by ideo-
logical concerns. "They all do it to serve 
their country on some level," he said. 
"There are other ways to fly planes." 

Patriotism aside, Hill said that this 
year's class of four cadets reflects typical 
involvement in the program. 
"It's interesting since we've gone 
through 9/11 that there doesn't seem to 
be an appreciable increase in interest in 
ROTC [at Yale]," he said. "We haven't 
seen an application increase." 
"Some of the older alumni think that 
[the current] generation is not as patriot-
ic as the older generation," he added, 
"Which is unfortunate. The military 
needs people like Yale students-smart, 
critical thinkers, problem-solvers." 

Perhaps Yale students are simply 
wary of entering such a difficult and 
dangerous career. Those in the military, 
even officers, make sacrifices unasked of 
their civilian counterparts 
they bind 
themselves into a contract to accept low 
pay, 
live 
in 
far-flung, 
sometimes 
unpleasant locations, and work within a 
system unrivaled for its discipline and 
rigidity. They also face occupational haz-
ards 
injury and even death 
that few 
other Yale students consider when 
weighing 
future 
career 
options. 
Hammerle noted that one of the rea-
sons Yale students may not join the mil-
itary en masse is that they are unwilling to 
make a potentially fatal commitment. 
"It's .really tough," he said sincerely . 
"We have it pretty happy and easy here. 
Why put that at risk for an objective you 
might not believe in?" 

enji Hurlburt's primary moti-
vation to join ROTC had 
more to do with the specific 
opportunities it offers than with a 
strong desire to enter national service. 
Hltrlb11rt St!fS his .friends "think nry 11niform s pref!Y cool. n 

"It's kind of a dream of mine to be a 
pilot," he said. ''And getting college paid 
for 
that really helps." 
Hurlburt sees the lack of ROTC 
involvement at Yale as a Yale-specific 
problem. "I think maybe people at Yale 
think a job in the military isn't something 
Yale students do when they graduate 
it's 
for ordinary people," he said. 
"People think of going into politics or 
becoming a doctor," he added. "They 
don't put military service on the same 
level. .. Maybe it's just the culture of Yale 
in general, which isn't · as patriotic as 
other places." 

Ironically, Hurlburt's aspirations as a 
pilot place him in the same situation as 
Yale students competing for extremely 
selective jobs. Unlike Hammerle, who has 
already 
received 
his 
cornnussion ' 
Hurlburt, as a sophomore, is still compet-
ing with Air Force cadets across the coun-
try for one of the few pilot slots available 
to ROTC cadets every year. In some ways, 
his status as a Yale student places him at a 
disadvantage; ''To be a pilot, when you're 
competing, GPA is a factor," he said. 
'~They don't take into account what class-
es you're taking ... They put all your num-
bers in a database, and if you're above a 
certain percentage, you're in." 

n ROTC,. Hurlburt's identity is little 
more than a number in a database a 
fact that may point to a reason for 
the progratn's decline at Yale. As an insti-
tution that champions the individuality of 
its students, its values may simply be anti-
thetical to mmta t y participation. 
Nonetheless, in spite of the limitations 
it places upon its cadets, both Hammerle 
and Hurlburt have forged individual iden-
tities as students outside of ROTC during 
their time at Yale. Hammerle is an avid 
participant in intranmral sports 
he was 
captain of the Morse inner tube water 
polo team for three years in a row while 
Hurlburt was recendy narned director of 
The Purple Crayon, an improv comedy 
troupe. 

back on the past four 
years, Han unerle doesn't believe that 
ROTC has defined his tirne at Yale. 
'~ definitely missed out on a couple of 
classes I wanted to take," he said ''But 
ROTC is kind of a different world for 
me. Thursday comes around and I go to 
Storrs, then I come back and forget 
about ROTC." 

or Jason Pampena, however,· 
ROTC proved to be too much of 
a time committnent he stopped 
participating at the beginning of this 
semester. 
"I left because it just didn't fit into my 
schedule," he said. "If that hadn't been the 
case, I would have definitely stayed in 
through the end of the year." 
Like Hammerle, Pampena was attracted 
to the military because of the public serv-
ice opportunities it affords. But during the 
fall, his trips to Storrs interfered with an 
EMf training course he was also taking. 
Pampena also ·said that he found hiniSdf 
questioning whether the goverru:J:nent was 
using the military · in a proper m~er. 
Now he lists Teach for America and the 
Peace Corps as post-college opportunities 
that interest him, though he has not ruled · 
out the possibility of joiniQg the- military 
upon graduation. 

very day, thousands of stu-
dents, including Hammerle, 
Hurlburt, and Pampena pass 
through the rotunda of Commons 
where, carved into the walls are the 
names of every Yale student or graduate 
who has died serving his country in the 
Armed Forces. Entering frorn Beinecke 
Plaza, one is confronted by the names of 
those who fell early in Yale's history: in 
the Revolutionary War, the War of 1812, 
the Civil War. Moving forward into the 
adjoining foyer, it is possible to be over-
whelmed by the a1most uncountable 
names of those who died during the two 
World Wars. Exiting into the rotuilda, 
one passes two short walls listing the 
names of those who died in the Korean 
War and in Vietnam, ending with Francis 
A11ard Boyer, class of 1969, who died on 
December 3, 1972. Althoqgh in the past 
several decades, U.S. mi1itary fatalities 
have paled in comparison to earlier eras, 
the names do not stop because wars 
stopped. They stop because Yale stu-
dents stopped joining the military. 
Helen Eckinger, a junior in T rnmbu/1 College~ is 
Managing Editor of The New JournaL 


**Title: Anna Liffey's Trivia Night**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On Tuesday nights, the tables in Anna Liffey's, a subterranean Irish pub at 17 Whitney, fill up by 8:15 as regulars appear and gradually crystallize into teams of five. 
When nine o'clock rolls around, these teams engage in animated debates about the seemingly trivial questions like "which popular board game was banned in Cuba and North Korea?" The participants defy generalization: Neuroscience graduate students compete against Book Trader baristas and a group of coworkers from a local high school. Some participants neither work nor reside in New Haven, but make the trip to Whitney Avenue just for Anna Liffey's famed Trivia Night.


The Quizmaster, Jonathan, is bestowed with the responsibility of reading the trivia questions and occupies an appropriately righteous seat of authority on a raised platform. The adjacent table is occupied by Jessica, Michael, Derek, Scott, and Chris who make up the unlikely veteran team: Rehab is for Quitters, How did they become Trivia Night regulars? ''I kind of got sucked in;" one offers, and the others laugh in agreement. Each member initially joined as a substitute, then was gradually incorporated into the core over the past six years.


At nine o'clock, the chatter in Anna Liffey's softens to a murmur and Trivia Night commences. The Quizmaster opens a package of questions (supplied weekly by a company named Brainstormer Pub Quiz) and calls out the rules of the game:

1. Order some drinks. 
This is, after all; an Irish pub. Old spritz bottles and lanterns are shelved against roughly stone walls, and each wrought iron table is fashioned to resemble those which once held classic Singer sewing machines. The nostalgic ambience is genuine the original owners of Anna Liffey's were Irish, as was the bartender who started the trivia tradition seven years ago. The nation's flag marks the entrance and, weeks after St. Patrick's Day, "Guinness" clovers still hang from the walls.


2. Come up with an imaginative team name and write it on each of your Play Cards.


For Quizmaster Jonathan, the highlight of Trivia Night occurs after round three, when he reads the colorful team nicknames aloud during the first score update. Names range from the raunchy (Save a Train-Ride a Conductor), to the whimsically obscene (One Puck Two Puck Red Puck Blue Puck), to the simply absurd (Dingoes Ate My Baby). The members of Rehab is for Quitters can't remember exactly how their team found its name-but they do recall how their original members were heavy drinkers and smokers. Ironically, Michael, who joined the team a few years ago, works at a New Haven rehab center.


3. When the contest begins, the Quizmaster will read out the questions. Come up with as many correct answers as possible and write them on the Play Cards provided.


Every week, Brainstormer Pub Quiz mails Anna Liffey's a package which contains seven rounds of questions covering subjects from chemistry to pop culture. Jonathan always replaces one round with a music category, which asks teams to identify songs based on sound clips. The crowd at Anna Liffey's often transforms into a musical troupe, as when most of the bar breaks into an enthusiastic rendition of ''As Long as We Got Each Other" from Growing Pains.


4. NO CHEATING!


Because money is at stake, this rule is strictly enforced. For a play card and the promise of an enjoyable night, each team must contribute ten dollars. At the end of the night, the pot of gold is divided among the three highest-scoring teams. With twenty teams consistently playing, first place can expect to take home over one hundred


5. Do not yell out the answers!


When Jonathan bellows,''You lose on average fifty to one hundred of what each day," some teams try to foil their competitors by shouting out facetious answers: "Fingers!" ''Toenails!" At another table, with intensity familiar to Yale students, a JE '06 team leans in close to deliberate. They barely maintain their poses long enough to sip their drinks, lest any discussion become privy to


6. In the event of any disputes, the Quizmaster's definition is final.


Be nice to your Quizmaster, and he will be nice to you. Jonathan and the waitresses who work Tuesday nights reward the loyalty of Rehab is for Quitters by reserving their treasured table. Such respect is rare the Quizmaster ridicules stupid answers, singling out a team that avows a platypus, not a bat, is the only mammal that can fly.


7. And finally, ENJOY YOURSELF!


That's really what it's all about. For the members of Rehab is for Quitters, the rewards of trivia night extend beyond Tuesdays. Jessica explains that, except for brothers-in-law Derek and Chris, none of the Rehab is for Quitters teammates had met before they "sucked in." Now good friends, they convene on birthdays to play Trivial Pursuit. Though Rehab is for Quitters no longer consistently places at Trivia Night, the team has not forgotten its former glory days. With discernible pride, Jessica's eyes well up. Derek laments, "We used to be sodding number one!" To which their waitress responds,''You're still number one to me."


[Author is a Sophomore in Jonathan College.]


**Title: Ned Lamont's Challenge to Joe Lieberman**
**Author: Lauren Harrison**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Ned Lamont strolls into the Branford Common Room. Robust and confident, he seems a bit too polished for the casual space. His smile is self-satisfied without being smug. Boyish, the 52-year old businessman-turned-politician is the first challenger to Senator Joe Lieberman since the latter's election in 1988. Lamont projects the image of the spirited politician who captures the support of both the old and young in one fell swoop—a would-be JFK of Connecticut's Democrats. 
''Who am I?'' Lamont asks the crowd minutes after arriving at Yale. "I'm an entrepreneur ... and if you're an entrepreneur in business, I think you're a progressive in government." Lamont says he is peddling innovation whether in politics or his digital cable business. The audience nods like a litter of obedient puppy dogs awaiting a treat. Lamont hits all of the major left-wing sore spots: Iraq was a mistake and "those who got us into this war should be held accountable"; universal affordable healthcare needs to be "a part of the solution"; we're currently paying for "tax cuts we can't afford"; our moral authority has been degraded by "the outsourcing of torture and Abu Ghraib"; and our president "thinks he's above the law." 

And then the clincher. With increasing urgency, Lamont asks the crowd, ''On all of these issues, where was Joe?" 
Tense silence. He continues. 
"Senator Lieberman cheered on the President every step of the way. And that is why I think Joe should go. I'd like to say to Lieberman, 'If you're not going to stand up to this president for his failed policies, then I will."' The audience bursts into applause. They've come expecting this meat—the scathing criticism of Lieberman and the status quo—and it is fed to them with impressive fluidity. Lamont exhales, wrings his hands nervously behind his back, then nods appreciatively. 

Lamont hopes to revive Connecticut's tradition of progressive politics and, as he told his eager audience in Branford, to "show people that you can be a real Democrat and win.'' Over the coming months, he will pit his formidable vision against Lieberman's formidable resume. With 18 years in the Senate, a run for Vice President of the U.S., and a bid for the Presidency, Lieberman has the name, the war chest (five million dollars as of the end of 2005), and the connections that makes young politicians salivate. In his campaign to replace him, Ned Lamont is also endeavoring to replace a legacy.


In a midnight blue suit, his complexion artificially matte, Lamont looks like a member of the New England Brahmin. He also bears the resume points of the well-groomed political elite: He can wax poetic about his years spent at Philips Exeter Academy and Harvard College, and boasts a degree from Yale School of Management, which he hands proudly in his otherwise nondescript office. 

Yet, time and time again, Lamont tries to distance himself from this image, claiming that he is "true to his roots." In the public domain, he takes pains to stress his role as a family man (he has three children, the oldest of whom followed her father to Harvard). An entrepreneur by trade—he founded EDS in 1980—the Greenwich native divides his free time between his family, teaching a business class in one of Bridgeport's inner-city schools, and chairing various local boards. Lamont wants Connecticut to see him as an active member of the community—not just another smartly dressed politician. 

To illustrate this point, Lamont loves to describe how, between his years at Harvard and Yale, he turned away from lofty Ivy pretension. A summer job with The Black River Tribune drew him from the pristine rooms of Harvard's "Lamont Library" (named after a great-grandfather) to the sleepy streets of Ludlow, Vermont. 

Lamont says that this "real world experience" afforded him the chance to travel to small towns, meet local leaders, and chat with the citizens. 
"I came away with an appreciation for what a difference good government can make," he says wistfully. "And it seems to me, looking at Washington D.C., that they're not even trying to make a difference anymore." 

Lamont may think Washington is getting lazy, but for the purpose of his campaign, it's more important that Joe Lieberman is getting particularly slovenly. Lamont is banking on support from Democrats who agree Lieberman has overstayed his welcome in the Senate. Comparing his foe to the elderly housekeeper of a wealthy estate, whose workmanship declines, unnoticed and unchallenged over the years, Lamont says that Lieberman is no longer a Democrat but "half of one." Lieberman's conservative stances on the war, abortion, and civil liberties issues coupled with his support for conservative Justice Samuel Alito LAW '75 have earned him a reputation as Fox News' favorite Democrat. Liberal backlash has been quiet thus far, limited to a few websites calling Lieberman a "DINO" or a "Democrat In Name Only." 

His chances of success depend on whether he can paint himself as a truer Democrat, and whether voters will trust those claims coming from the mouth of one with so little experience. Lamont's current task is to play the role of the anti-Joe. In spite of his "rescuer-of-the-Democratic-Party" appeal, Lamont is, by any standards, a political novice and has a long way to go if he hopes to become a household name. 

Before January, Lamont was virtually unknown outside of the Greenwich community, and even today, a Google Image search for "Ned Lamont" yields just nine results, only six of which are actually pictures of Ned Lamont—three are pictures of Lieberman. As he speaks from the Branford Common Room, Lamont lags behind in the polls by an estimated margin of 50%. 

To his most fervent supporters, he is not just another aspiring politician—he's the superhero waiting in the wings. The man who could potentially reenergize and reunify the Democratic party, the liberal who just might re-liberalize Connecticut politics. With this campaign, Lamont has set himself a daunting task: A battle against one very wealthy and experienced foe. 

Nevertheless, with each stump speech, it seems more believable that Ned Lamont could be the one to dethrone the incumbent, to topple the mighty "Republocrat" Joseph Lieberman at long last. 

By the end of the night, fatigue has cast deep shadows across Lamont's face; inhaling, he summons the energy to repeat one final time what has become his slogan: 
"The bottom line is I think our candidacy is going to be the best thing for the Democrats in this state ... Some have said, 'Ned, I don't want you to jeopardize the Democrats' hold on Connecticut,' and my response is, 'This is a blue state. You're not going to lose a senator, you're going to gain a Democrat."' 

On his way out the door, Lamont shakes the hands of eager students and tries his best to look like a beacon of hope. 
Lauren Harrison, a freshman in Ezra Stiles, is Circulation Manager for TNJ.




**Yale's Quiet Phase**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
early last month, a Yale· alumna in Washington, D. C. agreed to take a quick 
meeting with a University development officer, on the concHtio{\ that the 
officer would not attempt to solicit any donations. The meeting, later 
described by the alumna as "very low-key," was only one in an extended 
series of interviews currently being conducted by Yale development officers across the country . 

They are part of the "quiet phase" of a major University fundraising drive scheduled to be unveiled 
in September. Representatives are currently conducting a vast 
number of interviews with alumni to pinpoint topics 
that will make nostalgia flourish, hearts rush, and 
money flow, which will allow the Development 
Office to finalize its fundrasing goals. 


**Yale's Expanding Residential Colleges**
**Page number(s): 27**

Indeed, the officer conducted anoth-
er such discussion within the hour with 
an . alumnus who worked just a few 
offices away from her first stop. After 
both meetings, the alumni reported that 
Richer had 
casually 
sketched 
the 
University's hopes for what could be 
achieved and asked for their reactions. 
Nothing too innovative, the of~cer
suggested, just expansions of current proj-
ects 
except for one thing: adding two 
' more residential colleges. "Would you 
have a reaction to that?" 
lumni have heard this pitch 
before. From its 1933 incep-
tion, the residential college sys-
tem has evolved to accommodate a 
frC?)Ving student population. In fact, a 
S_"Yell in enrollment was the system's orig-
inal impe~~_,_ Okl'Brick Row, the alternat-
U:.~ _. &.S;f:s of rectangular dorms and 
ch~0~~~tJjat housed Yale in its early 
days,i~~ 
not _ eyen provide eno~h 
beds ·for the smaller student population 
of 1870. The current Old Campus, hap-
hazardly built in the final decades of the 
19th century, was also quickly outgrown. 
The 750 students who graduated in 1920 
could have wiped the floor with their 
fathers' class in a rousing (if not particu-
larly suspenseful) game of Bladderball, 
for they outnumbered the Class of 1899 
by more than two to one. Connecticut 
Hall, the last vestige of O~d Brick ·Row, 
was preserved as auxiliary housing, but 
even its salvation could not forestall the 
pending crisis. Had such growth accrued 
today, Yale might have simply squeezed 
an unprecedented third bed inside a 
Bingham single. The students of a hun-
dred years ago, however, would not stand 
for such indignities and began to move 
off campus in droves. 

By 1925, the housing situation had 
grown untenable. That winter, University 
President James R Angell submitted a 
plan for "dividing the student body into 
a number of groups somewhat resem-
bling the English colleges." With new 
students to fill the space and a donation 
from Edward Harkness, Class of 1897, 
to provide grist for the mil1, 1933 saw the 
construction of new buildings and the 
birth of the first seven undergraduate 
colleges. As Yale's student population
continued to grow, new residences were 
quickly added: Berkeley in 1934, Timothy 
Dwight in 1935, and Silliman in 1940. 
Morse and Stiles followed in 1961, 
replacing a city public schooL 

The arrival of coeducation in 1969 pre-
sented Yale with a choice: scale back male 
enrollment or increase housing. For then-
President Kingman Brewster, the decision 
was clear. Hoping to replicate the success 
his predecessor had enjoyed a decade ear-
lie.r, he commissioned plans to construct 
the 13th and 14th residential college. 

The plans had the three key ingredi-
ents: a donor, a site, and a stack of blue-
prints. A donation by 1926 alnt n John 
Hay would fund the colleges. They 
would be built on land just north of 
Timothy Dwight, bordered by Whitney, 
Grove, and Tetnple Streets 
Yale on two 
sides, New Haven on two others. 
Mitchell/ Giurgola Associates, the archi-
tectural firm hired to design the site, 
hoped the new colleges would serve as "a 
vital area where the University tnerges 
with the City, a crossroads for cat r1pus 
and comnmoity, a place of encounter." 
To facilitate this town-gown bonding, the 
proposed nine-story highrises bore little 
resemblance to traditional, courtyard-ori-
entated acadetnic enclaves. Cotmnercial 
facilities and parking lots would occupy 
the building at street level. Though gates 
would restrict access to the sma11, sunken 
courtyards, public walkways ~ould trans-
verse the site to promote the sense of 
connection to the city. 

Even the building's aesthetic, featured 
in adjacent drawing, would join it. with 
the city, combining the reds of 'ID with 
the white of surrounding city structures. 
To achieve this, the oversized, russet 
bricks of the fa<_;:ade would be punctuat-
ed by juu ing, off-white plexiglass bay 
windows that seemed plucked from the 
set of Fritz_ Lang's Metropolis. These mod-
ules would be outfitted with desks so that 
students could contemplate the city while 
contemplating A Tale if Two Cities-
a 
concurrence that might prompt them to 
apply their academic expertise on real-
world problems. 

The rooms were grouped into suites 
containing four to eight singles that 
shared a bathroom, a living room, and a 
kitchen. Together, these spaces were 
incorporated into three-story com-
pounds, with half of the students living 
above the comtnon area and the other 
half below. The plan abandoned the tra- . 
ditional entryway system even more deci-
sively than Morse and Stiles, ca11ing for 
hallways whose exterior walls would be 
glass flooding the buildings with light 
and further emphasizing a connection 
with the city. 

But the city, it turned out, wanted 
none of it. Brewster faced strong oppo-
sition from the Mavor's Office a stark 
contrast to the reception President 
Alfred Griswold had enjoyed when he



**Yale's Expansion: A New Chapter?**
**Author: The Yale Daily News**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The plan for a set of Whitney-Grove Colleges ended in public disaster and embarrassment. Today, President Richard Levin, who has devoted much of his tenure to revitalizing Yale's infrastructure, has no desire to reenact past misfortunes. Groundwork for the renewed attempt will be laid as firmly as the buildings' future foundations. This time, the early stages will be kept secret: Not since February 2004, when Levin announced that the University was considering between two and four new residential colleges and had been "for some time," has the issue surfaced publicly.


Meetings with alumni about financing these new colleges are conducted under the umbrella of the fund-raising drive, even though Mark Reach '02, a Yale development officer, certifies that "the building of new residential colleges is not part of the upcoming campaign." Vice President for Development Inge Reichenbach ignores Levin's two-year-old announcement and does not acknowledge the discussions her staff conducts. "There are no plans currently to build new residential colleges," she says, "and we therefore have no reason to include a discussion about this topic in any of our meetings with alumni." Vice President for New Haven and State Affairs Bruce Alexander agreed with Reichenbach, writing that "there are no such current efforts." Yet a recent alumni newsletter announced his assumption of new duties including the "development of facilities planning, construction, renovation and operations." This suggests the University is gearing up for major "facilities" projects that will require the city's cooperation.


Regardless of such denials, the increasing student body makes expansion inevitable. Former Vice President for Finance and Administration John Pepper told the Yale Daily News in the days after Levin's announcement that "it was a question of when, not whether, it will happen."


With Levin's on-the-record confession that plans have been mounting, why all the secrecy? Part of the hush is due to the time guaranteed to elapse before ground is broken; Levin and his administration have other priorities before their attention can be fully directed to the expansion of the college system. Most pertinently, renovations to the existing colleges must be completed. With a recent confirmation that Calhoun, Morse, and Stiles are also slated for remodeling, construction of their new brethren is unlikely to be completed for at least a decade.


Levin's announcement explicitly stated the motive for housing expansion. "There are so many outstanding students that we must turn down," he explained. "If Yale has a modest expansion, we would be fulfilling our mission even more than today." With this year's acceptance rate of 8.6% once again setting a new Ivy League record for selectivity, it is clear that students must desperately claw their ways into Yale.


Two new colleges comparable in size to the current twelve would allow the admissions department to make roughly 250 more high school seniors per year happy, and their parents very, very happy.


Some current students, however, worry that the larger class size would threaten class unity. Also, unless new faculty positions were offered (necessitating, of course, new office space), the teacher-student ratio would plunge. This is a serious concern, but those wary of expanding enrollment are not necessarily against the creation of colleges. They claim that the University needs at least that many new beds to accommodate the students it already has; present crowded conditions have annexed as many as half of the junior class in some colleges. Still, a return on the investment calls for new students. And if Levin's motive for construction is to give more high-school seniors a Yale experience, students dreaming of singles will be disappointed.


A different issue is likely to rouse more campus interest: Where will the new colleges be situated? Having learnt from its 1970s mistake, the University will likely build the future residential colleges on land it already owns, denying the city its veto. This restriction limits designers to a handful of possible sites, and the ensuing debate over which to choose is grounded in more than a century of Yale's development.


The terrain of that debate, and of New Haven, was extensively surveyed in a 2000 report Yale commissioned from a New York architecture and urban design firm, Cooper, Robertson & Partners. The 193-page document, *A Framework for Campus Planning*, offers an illustrated examination of the University's architectural legacies, realities, and potential, advising on policies regarding everything from construction and landscaping to signage and transit. As a framework rather than a master plan, it allows for deviation: Yale's decisions can remain flexible.


A preponderance of evidence in the framework points to the area just north of the Grove Street Cemetery on Prospect Street—currently home to a cluster of three-story houses, the avowedly temporary silver "diner," Brewster Hall, and the Art School's Sculpture Department (already slated for relocation to Edgewood)—as the likely new home for eight hundred Yale students. In one of the report's maps, an overlay suggesting future uses lays the word "residential" over the area—though no one lives there. Another diagram, detailing the 19 sites recommended for "major initiatives," suspiciously bifurcates this triangle into 7a and 7c, as one would divide space between two colleges, and allows room for 7b—a pedestrian corridor like Library Walk that would lead students to Swing Space, the gym, and the burgeoning retail on Broadway. The location's new neighbors are further proof of possible University designs for the area: Rose Security Center was recently constructed on Ashmun, and University Health Services' proposed new home is on the corner of Canal and Lock. If these street names are unfamiliar now, they won't be to the class of 2020; their distance from the currently perceived heart of campus is part of their appeal. Yale is moving to surround Grove Street Cemetery.


Science Hill, the focus of renewed University commitment in the form of a five-hundred million dollar suite of construction projects, is alienated from the rest of campus. Bringing two residential colleges to the north axis would reinvigorate the area, moving the figurative center of campus north along College Street from the end of Cross Campus to the front doors of Woolsey Hall. The site is actually no further from Commons than Pierson.


A second proposed site, the east border of Cross Campus, is closer to the current campus center. The old trick frat house at 451 College occupied by the Literature and Religious Studies Departments is slated for demolition, despite recent restoration. Parking Lot 51, which occupies much of the block's interior, will be torn up and moved across Temple Street or underground. Hendrie Hall could stay or go. Either way, acres of land will become available in the very heart of Yale, and everyone is fighting for the privilege of building on it: Departments want more offices, aesthetes hope for open space, and the Music School would always love a larger concert hall. Were it given to the Political Science department as a replacement for Brewster Hall, Yale could simultaneously recognize the discipline's increasing popularity and clear the final barrier to the construction of new colleges on Prospect Street. On the other hand, centrally-located new colleges could trump all of those concerns—no student could complain of being exiled to the hinterlands of campus.


Much less likely candidates are the current location of YUHS on Hillhouse, the awkward corridor now occupied by GPSCY and the Af-Am House, or the site of Davenport and Saybrook's new annex at Harrison Court.


Location will certainly affect the aesthetic of the new colleges, but they will undoubtedly follow the planned renovations of Cross Campus Library in reverting to Yale's traditional courtyards and Collegiate Gothic.


Harvard recently issued a conservative estimate for its expansion across the Charles River that placed the cost of three new dorms at $173 million. While not astronomical, it's hardly pocket change. To attract a donor, Princeton recently agreed to name its sixth college after eBay CEO Meg Whitman, who financed the construction. Whether alumni donors will demand naming rights and whether Yale would grant the request is hard to predict. Yale has long avoided bartering naming rights in exchange for donations. Not one of the existing twelve is named after the donor who paid for it. Even Edward Harkness, whose donations funded more than half of the colleges, was rewarded only with a tower. Vice President Reichenbach would not speculate on whether the University would continue its current tack or echo Princeton's. The latter policy would certainly ease the process of locating donors to cover the project.


If the two alumni interviewed in Washington are an accurate litmus test, the bribe may not be necessary. While not eager to see another Morse or Stiles, both hoped for expansion. Like Levin, alumni are keeping track of record-breaking rejection rates. Those wealthy enough to be substantial donors are often old enough to have kids, whose chances of a large envelope from Yale would be considerably improved by the addition of two more colleges.


**Title: Naming the New Colleges**
**Author: Jon Y. Dach**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
lope dwindle . each year. "From the
point of view of alumni," one com-
mented, expansion seems like "a good
thing because it has been so hard to get
your kids in."


If that enthusiasm inspires dona-
tions ·without the stipulation of naming
rights, the names of these new colleges
may be up .for grabs. Kingman
Brewster is a slightly stodgy option~ but
an appropriate one,
especially if
Brewster Hall is demolished to make
way .for the new structures. Sinclair
LeWis, Class of 1908,
could also
deserve a college on merit; John
Hersey '36 would be an appropriate
counterpart.
Both
have
a
certaln nng.
} _Brewster jokingly proposed naming
the·: Whitney/Grove colleges "Harry
and George." New York Times colum-
~
riis!- J~hn ~Tierney '75 suggested "Man
. ;.-,
and God:' . ~
-~
-
~ -
-: _.,.,
,
W1~ ·,tw0-existing colleges (Saybrook
r-~C
'r
and BranfOrd) named for Connecticut
towns and ten for white men
includ-
ing John C. Calhoun, the intellectual
progenitor of the Confederacy
there
may be pressure to consider female and
minority namesakes for the 13th and
14th college. Maya Lin's name is often
dropped in that regard.
Annie Talbot '7 5 facetiously
described the onerous burden of living
in Calhoun, saying that she "frequently
had to apologize for liv iog in the col-
lege named after a slaveholder. So I
guess it would be wise to stay away
from luminaries whose subsequent
reputation may be tainted by political
incorrectness." Talbot suggests Meryl
Streep, arguing that enough is enough
on Maya Lin
she has a Yale memori-
al already. But other options arise. c~
-.-
April2006
of the current college names are so
WASPy
there should be one with a
Jewish name. How about Levin? What
other Jews are associated with Yale?".
Could future students live in Wendy
Wasserstein College?
Tierney also suggests naming
them after fictional Yalies, who are
currently as underrepresented as
women and minorities. Crotchety
Simpsons overlord Montgomery Burns
'14, Bonfire of the Vanities anti-hero
Sherman McCoy, and Fitzgerald's
violent, adulterous Tom Buchanan
'15 are among those who might have
the means to buy the honorific out
from underneath those more deserv-
ing, like fake alumni Nick Carraway (a
member of Buchanan's secret socie-
ty) and Michael Doonesbury who,
like his creator, began as a lowly Yale
undergrad.
Whoever the 13th and 14th col-
leges are named after will secure a
place in Yale's history. Contrary to
Talbot's joking suggestion to name
them after Levin, there is no need to
commemorate the Yale President so
explicitly
as the overseer of the
planning and construction of these
edifices, he will have left a large
mark. The 13th and 14th residential
colleges are a fitting feather in the
cap of a President who renovated
the
first
twelve.
Opening
University he has rebuilt to the
denizens of new colleges is a worthy
endeavor, and one wbose rirne, if
still only in secret, has come.
Jon'!Y Dach, a sophomore in Jonathan Edwards
College, is Managing Editor ifTNJ
TNJ


**Title:  Iran Human Rights Documentation Center**
**Author:  Unknown**
**Page number(s): 32**

ies separate New Haven from Tehran, the capital of the ·
'
.
ust
Islamic
Iran. Late last year, a new organization
the Iran Human
. -
Rights D
tion Center (IHRDC)----:was founded with the intention of


The Center may seem like just another entrant into New
non-profit scene, but it is distinguished by its singular mission:
to monitor human rights abuses in Iran from an office overlooking the New
Haven Green.


It is odd enough that the organization, which has no formal Yale affiliation, .
is located in New Haven. That it chose to make its home at 129 Chapel Street only
•
• •
adds to the Center's enigma. For years, the Chapel Street building's offering of sin-
gle-room offices with rent payable by the month has attracted an unJikely crew of
,. .
tenants: solo attorneys, independent financial advisers, the odd parish office. The
Center has the distinction of being the only international human rights organiza-
tion in residence. It has clearly not come for the low-budget accommodation: Last
year, the IHRDC received one mi11ion dollars in funding from the U.S. State
Departtnent, nearly a third of the $3.5 tnilJion earmarked for democracy promo-
' •
l11E NEW JOURNAL



**Title: The Iran Human Rights Documentation Center**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
year, the IHRDC received one mil-
lion dollars in funding from the 
U.S. State Department, nearly a 
third of the $3.5 million earmarked 
for democracy promotion in Iran. 
The Center, which is forthright 
in its aims (witness the frankness of 
its name), reveals on its website 
that it is interested in documenting 
human rights abuses in Iran solely 
since the Islamic revolution of 
1979 ushered the current, staunch-
ly 
anti-American 
regime 
into 
power. It's no surprise, then, that 
some Yale students and faculty 
members reacted with suspicion to 
news of the Center's opening in 
December 2004. They worried that 
the Center would merely concern 
itself with building a case for U.S. 
military intervention in Iran. 
Opposition to the government 
in Tehran, after all, is a growth 
industry. In February, Condoleeza 
Rice 
announced 
the 
Bush 
Administration's 
intention 
to 
expand funding for Iranian democ-
ratization from its paltry $3.5 mil-
lion allotment in 2005 to $75 mil-
lion this year. With so much money 
in the budget, strange things might 
happen: A new cadre of Iranian 
freedom fighters might emerge 
overnight; Dick Cheney might 
begin professing grave concern for 
Middle Easterners' rights and safe-
ty; and an Iranian version of 
Ahmad Chalabi 
the exiled Iraqi 
expatriate who famously fed politi-
cians and journalists information 
to support the invasion of his 
homeland 
might set up shop right 
across the Green, here in the heart 
of sunny New Haven. 


As it happens, few if any of 
those events have come to pass. 
The IHRDC's founders claim that 
their timing, like the Center's loca-
tion, was a fortunate coincidence: 
The 
three 
Iranian-American 
founders 
Drs. Ramin Ahmandi, 
Payam 
Akhavan, 
and 
Roya 
Boroumand 
met in New Haven in 
2003 and hatched the idea for the 
Center soon after. Their one mil-
lion dollar grant came in 2004 from 
the State Department's Human 
Rights 
Democracy Fund, 
which distributed over $48 million 
last year and cites the entire 
"Muslim world" as a regional prior-
ity. 
According 
co-founder 
Akhavan, the support they have 
received only demonstrates that 
not everyone in the U.S. govern-
ment is in favor of overt regime 
change in Iran. It was the more 
"progressive elements" of a diverse 
State Department, he posits, that 
opted to back the Center's peace-
able project. 
Like the IHRDC's other sup-
porters, Akhavan is adamant that 
those who scrutinize the present 
Iranian government's human rights 
record are not all seeking to justify 
an invasive foreign policy, and that 
some may wish to document its 
abuses for entirely different rea-
sons, 
which 
they 
claim, 
are 
divorced from politics. "When 
there are strong interests at play, 
human rights often become instru-
mentalized for questionable ends," 
Akhavan acknowledged. The prob-
lem is not "that no one is speaking 
about human rights in Iran. The 
question is: 'Is there really a gen-
uine commitment?' And: 'Is there 
really an appreciation that a culture 
of human rights is not just about 
regime change?"' 
To overcome the murmurs of 
skeptical Yale liberals, the Center 
will need to show that any similari-
ty between its agenda and that of 
the Bush administration is purely 
coincidental. Once it does that, the 
real work can begin. 


Two types of organizations 
are already at work docu-
menting 
human 
rights 
abuses in the Islamic Republic. 
First, there are the behemoth, well-
established monitors like Amnesty 
International and Human Rights 
Watch that research and publicize 
human rights abuses in countries 
around the 
world, including Iran. 
At the other end of the spectrum, 
there are the hundreds of websites, 
blogs, and smaller organizations 
devoted to denouncing the Iranian 
government, including one started 
by 
IHRDC 
Boroumand in 2001. For the first 
sort, objectivity is the key to estab-
lishing credibility. Organizations of 
the latter type, however, make no 
claims of neutrality. The IHRDC 
appears destined to keep a foot in 
each camp. Though its board is 
staffed with well-known human 
rights experts, it also plans to rely 
on testimony from the four-million-strong Iranian-American dias-
pora to gather and disseminate 
information-including 
accounts 
from exiles who make no bones 
about their opposition to the 
Iranian government. 
Yet what really makes the New 
Haven Center unique, according to 
Executive Director Mora Johnson, 
is its narrow focus and legal and 
historical 
expertise. The Center 
employs two Iranian historians, as 
well as a handful of lawyers who 
specialize in human rights. Their 
goal is to collect documents and 
testimony from existing sources 
and then to compile reports with a 
level of detail that broader organi-
zations do not have time to include 
in theirs. The detailed reports-
and the material on which they are 
based 
will be published in both 
English and Farsi and eventually 
made available on a searchable 
archives to aid policymakers, jour-
nalists, scholars, and students, both 
in Iran and abroad. 
The Center's goal is abstract, 
and its success so far is difficult to 
gauge. The first reports, due to be 
published between May and July, 
range in topic from the treatment 
of Iran's Baha'i population in the 
1980s to the recent death of 
Iranian-Canadian journalist Zahra 
Kazemi while in police custody in 
Tehran. These are not novel sub-
jects. But to the Chair of the 
Center's Board of Directors, Yale 
Law Professor Owen Fiss, that is 
exactly the point: The reports will 
take a fresh look at old debates. 
Evidence of state repression of the 
Baha'i, for example, was gleaned 
from extensive Baha'i archives in 
Tel Aviv. Long available but never 
closely examined, the information 
should give form and substance to 
long-held suspicions. From these 
documents, Fiss explained, "We 
could see this wasn't just vengeance 
but a systematic policy to extermi-
nate or repress the Baha'i ... All the 
world has known it is uncomfortable 
for Baha'i in Iran, but this evi-
dence is really chilling." 
Fiss added that the difference 
between those two levels of under-
standing is more than semantic. 
Many of the worst state-sponsored 
crimes of the last century only 
came to light after the fall of the 
governments 
that 
perpetrated 
them. By that time, observers and 
politicians around the world could 
safely throw up their hands and 
claim to have never suspected how 
egregious 
offenders 
really 
were-and thus did not recognize 
how strongly they ought to have 
been condemned. Now, in Iran's 
case, Professor Piss hopes, "That 
excuse will no longer be available." 


On the surface, Iran seems 
the last country in need of 
this 
added 
degree 
of 
scrutiny. 
government 
in 
Tehran has one of the most harsh-
ly criticized human rights records 
in the world. The country was put 
under one of the most far-reaching 
sanctions in U.S. history in 1996, 
and President Bush has singled it 
out for censure in every State of 
the Union address since 2002. In 
December, the United Nations 
General Assembly passed a resolution condemning Iran's continued 
human rights violations, from the 
nation's 
use of torture to public 
executions and lack of due legal 
process. 
Yet the IHRDC is not the lone 
voice calling for a more thorough 
inspection of the country. History 
Professor and Iran specialist Abbas 
Amanat 
who is not affiliated with 
the Center 
agrees: "Although it 
has been done somewhat unprofes-
sionally by others," he said recently, 
"it has never been done by people 
who really know what they're 
doing."


**The Cambodian Genocide Documentation Project and the Fortunoff Video Archive for Holocaust Testimonies**
**Author: Paige Austin**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
tion.
The
Cambodian Genocide
Documentation project is run through
the Yale Center for International and
Area Studies, and the . University's
library is home to the Fortunoff
Video
Archive
for
Holocaust
•
Testimonies. Like the IHRDC,
. these projects often collect docu-
ments to help create an accurate
historical narrative. "You can't use
them if they don't exist," explained
English
Professor
Geoffrey
Hartman, advisor to the Holocaust
Testimonies project.
Professor Piss offered similar
reasoning. "It's tricky what you can
do in international human rights
fr9m a law school," he said. In the
'
-
2 absence of hands-on clinics or
courts, doq,Jmentation and legal
--
anal~js -fs the service that scholars
<i~ : /,.
art<i ·c' <:lawyers
can
best
.. /
;.-_.,~r~
~
:.t..J:.-·
_,--
pro.Y-~e~ _
r
rF
,·
'As a former advisor to the spe-
cial court in Sierra Leone Johnson
has confidence in the project's util-
ity. ccThe tyrants of today are in the
prisoner's dock down the road,"
she said, predicting possible future
uses of the Center's research.
When power finally does change
hands in Iran, a new government
might call for an invc;stigation of
past abuses. And while lawyers like
Piss tend to doubt that an Iranian
court or international commission
there would accept an outside orga-
nization's work, it rnight be useful
to those gathering official evidence.
ccy ou never know where the work
you do today is going to end up,"
Johnson mused.
Paige Austin~ a senior in Davenport College,
is Senior Editor Ementus of 1N].
April2006


**WORKING GROUP**
**Author: Not specified**

n invitation to artici ate in
a e's
c1ence
• 1n I
• •
WORKING GROUP
This group is -aimed at fostering a
university-wide dialogue on the relation-
ships between scientific findings and the
religious quest, with a particular empha-
sis on the neurosciences and their impact
on questions of theology, ethics, and
belief. The group also sponsors presen-
tations by leading scientists, theologians,
and ethicists from Yale and elsewhere,
and will develop group-authored publica-
tions. A professional science background
is not required. Undergraduates, gradu-
ates, faculty, and the academically
engaged public are invited
Facilitated by Nihal de Lanerolle, Professor of
Neurosurgery and Neurobiology and Chaplain of
-the Episcopal Church at Yale.
A grant from the Metanexus Institute's LocalS ocieties
Initiative funds this program.
When:
Where:
6:30- 8 pm Thursdays when classes are in
session. (You may drop in to shop the group.)
Yale Divinity School o ISM Seminar Room
1st Floor (ask at the front desk)
Contacts:
nihaJ.delanerolle@yale.edu or james. van
pelt@yale.edu (624-0122)


**Harmony Place**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

abor Kovacs left Hungary in 1976. "Draft dodg-
ing," he explains with a faint smile. "In Hungary,
everybody had to serve. You didn't have a choice."
It is a quiet Tuesday evening at .the Trinity Lutheran
Church on ·wall Street. Gabor sits at a table in a room at.
.
the back of the chapel. He occasionally looks over at the
window as the daylight fades. It is almost six o'clock.
Harmony Place, a community center for the homeless
run by Yale student volunteers, meets here every Tuesday
and Thursday from 4 to 10 p.m., and Sundays from 7:30
a.m. to 6 p.m. Around us, some of the other guests wait in
line to use the phone; some quietly play cards; others sit in
folding chairs watching a movie on an old television in the
corner.
''You know," Gabor continues, "that's the way it was in
Hungary. It was· a big mess. They were a shell-shocked peo-
ple. First it was the Hapsburgs, then it was the SS, then it
was the Communists ... In World War II, you had to fight.
And if you fought, you died, but if you didn't, you were
mowed down by your own. Even afterwards, when every-
. .
• tc
an
er
"Industry, politicians. You can't trust them. They lie:-
all of them. And they're ineffective. Do you know they put
nail polish remover in milk? They do. And the government
does nothing. Why do you think the rate of birth defects
has doubled in the last ten years? Chemicals~ Everywhere."
He goes on, listing government conspiracies and the
abuses of the industrial age: the poison in fapd, the fatal
flaws in medication, the rising cancer rates. ::;
Jim, another guest, leans back in his chair on the other
side of the table. He looks over his shoulder at the crowd
in front of the Tv. "They're probably watching Lethal
Weapon Twelve, or something stupid like that," he says in his
soft-spoken tone. "I'd watch movies, but not this garbage.
I hate this stuff. But try putting in Schindler's List or some-
thing and see what these guys do."
Unlike Gabor, Jim grew up just one town over, in
Hamden. He comes from a strict Pentecostal family. He
has deep, intelligent eyes
which are usually fixed on the
floor, and a wide, emphatic smile which he seldom shows.
He is well spoken, but usually sits silently apart. Only when
e more
armon
ace) t e more
as survzve
nalnics. ''
as on as zt as.
t znvo ves a ver com ex
set o
...
arm on
ace
body ended up in business or in city hall, they were still
shell-shocked."
Behind his untrimtned beard and brown, shaggy hair,
Gabor has a handsome face. His bright blue eyes glea t n
and widen as he talks.
38
we talk about comedy, baseball, or music
he's attended
hundreds of concerts and used to f>lay in a band
does he
become animated.
A few of the other regulars are scattered around the
room. Cynthia, though no longer hot11eles , still comes to
THE NEW JOURNAL

. Harmony Place whenever it is open.
She has found God and wants to be
ordained. Then there's Mike, perhaps
the· most outgoing
tall and slim,
with long hair and a nasal voice. He
greets everyone and is always the
loudest and most cheerful during card
games. Mike does odd jobs when he
can find them, but is looking for
steady work. Dwayne used to cook in
a ·restaurant. Jimmy once worked in
the Saybrook dining hall. Joe is always
quick with a stnile, though he is miss-
ing his two fran t teeth.
Harmony Place offers a respite
from the homeless life. There is a
phone, a television, games, heat, run-
ning water, a washer and dryer, and
} .
meals on Sunday. It also fosters a cer-
tain sense of community.
"I~ D;.16re relaxed here than in the
sh~£~fs;:.,.,.s4ys Cynthia. "There are less
,
.. V'"
. ,
r,
-';.
restrictions. You know more people.
You can be yourself."
This June, after five years in oper-
ation, Harmony Place will be asked to.
leave Trinity Church. If, within the
next two months, this community
cannot fmd anothe:r home, it will dis-
appear.
Harmony Place was founded in
1999 by the acting Yale Homelessness
Hunger Action Project coordinator
John Scafidi '01
and volunteer
Gregory Duff Morton '00. It sprang
from Outreach
another community
service organization founded by
Morton to encourage undergraduate
involvement beyond campus. First
housed in Fellowship House on Elm
Street, it moved to Trinity in 2001.
For a while, it worked. There were
weekly meetings between volunteers
and homeless patrons to set agendas,
In two months, the doors of Trinity Church will close out the homeless community.
as well as boards for conflict resolu-
tion, rules, and a constant supply of
drivers to and from the shelters. There
were protocols, organization, and, it
seemed, a plan for the future.
In recent years, however, the num-
ber of volunteers has decreased dra-
matically. The only cornmunity volun-
teer is Frank Dean, who is often the
only person there to ensure that the
center opens.
Dean has kept every volunteer sign-in
book used at Harmony Place. His
long, stern face remains set and
expressionless as he glances through
their pages. "There used to be a lot
more volunteers here," he says, as he
·flips through 2001, 2002, 2003. "Used
to be
we ran out of Yalies." 2004,
2005 ... the names dwindle. Some peo-
ple began showing up once a week,
some once a month, some once, and
39



**Title: Harmony Place**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Pawluk hopes to reVitalize his urban congregation. 
then never again. ''Y alies are always 
busy. I don't think they're as interested 
any more." The original leadership of 
Harmony Place has long since gradu-
ated, and the spirit that inspired its 
founding has dissipated in successive 
generations of volunteers. 

As volunteers left, Harmony Place 
began to run more and more on iner-
tia; the agendas, grievance boards, and 
activities slackened. Fights 
both 
verbal and physical 
have become 
more frequent. 

"I don't like that the guests bring 
their stuff in from outside," says Jim. 
''It's called Harmony Place. I don't 
feel any harmony here anymore." He 
remains pensive for a moment. "Part 
of me thinks it sucks that Harmony 
Place is moving out~ but part of me 
thinks it's good. People fight, they 
steal from here, they try to sleep in 
here ... " He pauses and looks around 
and, in a subdued tone of disgust, 
continues. "People have had sex in 
this fuckin' place. That's not right. 
That's disgraceful. There used to be a 
corrununity, but there is no longer." 

''But," Jim continues, "on the 
other hand, it is gonna suck. There 
won't be a place to come in out of the 
heat. And the laundry 
nowhere to 
do your laundry. And the winter," he 
says, raising his eyes. ''And the win-
ter ... we didn't have a real winter this 
year, ~ut wel have one next year. That 
w 
i 
l 
1 
be hard." 

hen Harmony Place first 
came to Trinity, it encoun-
tered a 
very different 
parish from the one it is about to be 
evicted from. 

''We were on the verge of closing 
down," says Pastor Henry Pawluk. He 
is tall, with wire-ritn glasses, a thin 
goatee, and neat brown hair. His 
office is an orderly Orange Street 
aparttnent adjoining the church. · A 
cross hangs on the wall and a stand 
crowned with a religious painting 
props open the door. 

"I know it doesn't look like it frorn 
the size of the building, but our con-
gregation had shrunk dramatically. 
We were living off our endowment." 

Trinity had been between pastors 
for several months, and the month 
before Pastor Pawluk arrived, church 
president Jack Nicholson had unilat-
erally approved Harmony Place's use 
of the building's facilities. 

"Jack never did what should be 
done before making a decision like 
that," says Pawluk. "He never con-
sulted the congregation, he never 
tried to integrate Harmony Place into 
the community. From the start, it was 
unpopular with some of the congre-
gation." 

"But," he adds, "I thought it was 
an excellent idea. I thought urban 
ministry was the key to the church's 
survival." 

Founded in 1865 by working-class 
German irnmigrants, mempership in 
Trinity Lutheran peaked in the 1950s 
with a largely blue-collar congrega-
tion hovering above two thousand. In 
2001, Pawluk a~ved -on the heels of 
three decades' worth of rising crime 
rates and vanishing manufacturing 
jobs. The congregation had dwindled 
to fewer than two hundred, with a 
weekly attendance of around 45. 

"Urban churches are in decline . 
Not · just here, everywhere. Saint 
Boniface, the Catholic church down 
the street" 
Pawluk indicates with a 
wave of his hand 
"was forced to 
close last year. Thirty one churches in 
New York alone shut their doors last 
year. They just don't have the congre-
gations." 

''You know," Pawluk continues, 
carefully 
phrasing his 
thoughts, 
"There has always been a resistance 
to a religious presence in Harmony 
Place. Students tend to be secular'--
and I understand that. But there are 
some in the congregation who feel 
that Harmony Place does not care 
whether the church lives or dies." 

"Over the last five years, three days 
a week, five hours a day, we have 
given Harmony Place water, free heat, 
chairs, room space, kitchen access,-
all for free. 'I know it's easy for stu-
dents and non-church people to look 
at the church and say that we're not 
doing enough. But when Harmony


--- Page 41 ---

' 
I 
• 
. ftrst came here, we were only open on 
Sundays 
now we're open every day, 
for at least half the day. We'~e adding 
new programs, and," he smiles, ufor 
the first tirne in many years we're 
· 
to see people return to the 
church." 

Indeed, since Pastor Pawluk 
arrived, Trinity's weekly attendance 
has more than doubled to one hun-
dred per week. New groups.-
N arcotics A.nonymous, Alcoholics 
Anonymous, church youth groups-
, 
have formed, all vying for· space. As 
the church has expanded, tensions 
·with Harmony Place due to fights, 
thefts, break-ins, and disorder on the 
part .of the homeless have become 
J 
• ' 
increasingly serious. 

-
"Our congregation is growing," 
-- "and we have to pro-
vi4~- (9,t1haF It's very hard for us to 
acc6n"~{iiq~ Harmony Place. If we 
...-; 
.c-
-;.-
dontrwaidi out for ourselves, we'll be 
gone in five to ten years. Whether you 
are religious. or not, you lose some-
thing in a cornntunity when a church 
closes. It's the center, it's the con-
science. Church-bashing has become 
very popular in the last few years," he 
says, "but we're the ones still in 
the city." 

f there is any future for 
Harmony Place, it lies with the 
current 
coordinator, 
Yale 
freshrnan Sarah Marks. "The more I 
work with Harmony Place," she 
wrote in an e-ntail, "the more I an1 
shocked that it has survived as long 
as it has. It involves a very complex 
April2006 
set of dynamics." . 

Marks recognizes the challenge of 
supplying a community center for 
such a volatile group of people: . 
Balancing the needs of the homeless 
with the sensibility of the communi-
ty at large requires · delicacy. For the 
short term, her goal is simple: keep 
Harmony Place alive by any means 
possible. Marks is looking to various 
churches and conununity groups for 
a new location. She tries to keep spir-
its !-JP, encourage volunteers, provide 
entertainment, and keep the program 
functioning. 

"We have a very committed core 
group," she says, ccbut l think in. the 
future we need to take more care 
with recruiting." She hopes to start a 
formal intern program through 
Dwight Hall, find grant funding, and 
maybe even locate a permanent 
home . 

But change comes slowly. The 
volunteers are few, the churches hes-
itant, and the great structural 
changes she envisions remain far of£ 
As of yet, Harmony Place has 
nowhere to go when it is displaced in 
June. No one has stepped forward to 
,, 
~ 
zves or 
cSee that?" he says, frustrated. 
"My parishioners get towed when 
they come to worship. How can you 
grow a congregation when more 
than half of them come in from the 
suburbs, and they have nowhere to 
park?" 

His concern for his flock shows 
on his face. Pastor Pawluk takes no 
joy in turning out Harmony Place-
that is clear. In fact, he seems pained 
by the decision. But on the back 
steps of his of~ce, he is looking for-
ward to a new and thriving urban 
church 
and to an extent, I can feel 
his enthusiasm. Like the student vol-
unteers who forgot 
day-to-day, 
month-to-month, year-to-year 
the 
little room in the back of the church 
they once visited, he, too, has his 
own future and his own corrununity 
to think of. 

I cannot help but look across the 
same alley at the back door of the 
church and the stairs leading up to 
the room which, in several hours, 
will fill with New Haven's home-
less 
the "shell-shocked," as Gabor 
might coin them. And, as Pastor 
Pawluk closes the door behind me, I 
arm on 
en 
think of something Frank had said: 
offer a home. Even the a cappella and 
improv groups Sarah has contacted 
to perform at Harrnony Place have 
not responded. Nobody, it seems, is 
certain of Harmony Place's future. 

cWhen we clean up, after we're 
done here, they want it spodess. 
They even want you to sweep up 
your footprints. They want it to look 
like you were never here." 

s Pastor Pawluk leaves his 
office, he pauses on the 
wrought iron stait way and 
looks out. He points to the 
parking lot. 

Nick Handler, a freshman in E~a Stiles 
College, is Business Manager tifTNJ. 


--- Page 42 ---

• .. 
, ' 
; 
. 
' ' 
on 
· t 
just 
seems 
like 
flrst 
episode ... " I paused, searching for 
a tactful phrase. 

"Kind of sucked?" offered I jna Chen 
- ~08~ the mastermind behind lf!YU, the 
undergraduate soap opera that recently 
premiered on YTY, Yale's student-run tel-
evision station. . 

'Well,' I thought, 'now that you mention 
it,_.)eah.' 

.I JvyU captured attention on campus 
._ lorig before it premiered. Chen's mar-
keting team handed out laminated cards 
at Co.mnlOris Dining Hall, placed ads in 
\ 
the campus tabloid, Rumpus, and plas-
tei-e~ every campus bulletin board with 
posterS. Each offered seductively few 
details; "lt:JU ... Soon." The show man-
aged to achieve that magical something 
as yet unheard of for YTV: serious 
buzz. And it paid off. On the day lf!YU 
premiered, 847 people went to the 
show's website, www.chooseyourscan-
dal.com, to download the episode. 

Unfortunately, the show fails to live 
. . 
Yale, and I was like, 'I can do this myself."' 

After each episode, viewers log online to 
vote on questions like, "Should Snow and 
Christian make out in Episode Two?" The 
results are then incorporated into the next 
episode (64°/o percent said "yes, they 
should"). As Chen has realized, there is no 
better way for viewers to sate their God 
complexes than by commanding charac-
ters to make out on camera and then 
" 
• • 
by Sophia Le·ar 
Eamon Murphy '08 and Toni Blackwell 
'09. And, frorri now on, each episode will 
focus on only half of the cast in order to 
flesh out the characters' personalities. 

Then there is the problem of visual 
tone: lf!YU more closely resembles a home 
video than nationally broadcast Tv. For 
this, Chen blames · her inability to com-
mand a crew: ''I was too ni~," she says. "I 
wanted everyone to haye- fun. I didn't 
demand enough." But she has 
since abandoned her welcoming 
attitude. ''I just can't have inex-
perienced people. Everybody 
working on this has to be expe-
rienced." 

· ~P to its hype. The length of the entire 
pilot is a measly 15 minutes (including 
three tninutes of credits), which leaves 
the dedicated television viewer with 
that difficult-to-at ticula~e feeling that it 
isn't, well ... good. (In the sense that 
MTV's trashy teen soap Laguna Beach is 
good.) 

The sultry stars of IvyU know this table has more than one use . 

As with most pilot·episPdes, 
the first show introduced char-
acters and set the stage for 
future 
intrigue, 
making 
Lynwood Place seem more like 
Melrose Place. Meet Snow: Laura 
Merriman '08 is the innocent 
ingenue who is starting to feel 
smothered by her nice-guy 
boyfriend, RJ, played by Lucas 
O'Connor, '08. ("l think I just, 
like, need some fresh oxygen, or 
something," she tells him.) 

Providing skanky relief is 
Stephanie (Ashley Fox, '08), 

Still, the premise is undeniably brilliant: 
an ''interactive" soap opera starring your 
peers 
kids you see in lecture 
whose 
destinies are placed in your hands like a 
Choose Your Own Adventure story. "I remem-
ber watching TV in 10th grade, and I real-
ly wanted a character to die, and they just 
wouldn't die," Chen reminisces. "I came to 




**Title: If!YU**
**Author: Sophia Lear**
**Page number(s): 43**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
' 
if it were kicking you in the ass," may have 
already tipped the balance (62% voted for 
gay, 31 °/o for bisexual, and 7°/o for straight). 
The pilot's plot gets underway· when 
Snow notices a mysterious necklace hang-
-ing over the edge of a brick wall. She grabs 
it, proceeds to a deserted area 
bathed in 
,moonlight, of course 
perches on a 
bench in her flimsy, white shift, and fingers 
the jewelry while nervously glancing over 
.her shoulder. Inexplicably, she is then kid-
napped. The necklace belongs to a secret 
society called 'VJ'he Gentlemen," whose 
dark, brooding leader, Christian, has 
organized the kidnapping to recover it-
and maybe something more. "I'll pick her 
up at midnight," he orders a goon over the 
· phone. "No, of course she doesn't know 
~e. And," he adds, his voice dropping a 
.register, "I want her back in an even better 
} 
A:ondition than you took her.' 
:. -
So where is this story headed? 
. 
/ 
.Amazin_gly, .-it's up to us. Merriman has a 
·' 
# 
, 
f~ ·(i.rQposals for her own character's 
..... j: 
-;./" 
~ 
futur€· ' '~ thi'nk there should be a sex scene 
,.. /"' 
in ~~~ck-s:" she . suggests thoughtfully. 
"Snow could be up there, with pigtails, a 
April2006 
basket of books, a sundress. And then one 
of the bad guys could find her, like Diesel, 
and he'd say," -she lowers her voice-"Snow-
come here." She also has a plan for how 
Stephanie and Snow should resolve their 
backstabbing friendship: "I was like, 'why 
don't I make out with Ashley'? And they 
were like, 'but she's a girl!' And I was like-
'so?' I want to un-build gender stereotypes 
at Yale; it'd be so progressive." Chen, hop-
ing to attract a male audience with a sci-
ence-fiction 
angle, 
is 
giving 
"The 
Gentlemen" ties to a race of "demonic 
creatures from hell." It is Merriman, how-
ever, who may have more of the right idea. 
The most impressive element of the 
show is its endless roll of credits. Though 
Chen conceptualized lf!YU on her own, she 
relied on more than forty-five people to 
bring it to fruition. "Ijna Chen is unbeliev-
able," explains Suzanna Lee '08, head of 
pro 
· g at YTV "It takes so much 
time and effort to put together something 
like the vision she had for lf!YU. This was a 
two year process of 
it happen." 
Two years for fifteen minutes? ''People are 
so ready to criticize everything and anything 
on YTv," Suzanna continues, "but jhey 
have no idea what goes into it 
the equip-
ment, schedules, learning how to use the 
equipment . often for the very first time." 
Why do students who are self-pro-
claimed "bad-TV" junkies ridicule Yale's 
own network? YIV is not, and net.er will 
be, MTV: it's an amateur-run college TV 
channel. This translates, as we all immedi-
ately note, into the home video q4ty of 
its shows. But, more importantly, it also 
allows for enormous creative opportuni-
ties: ''We could go right now, and I could 
put you live on the air," Suzanna says. 
So if you have an idea for a show, 
YTV can help make it a reality. If you 
don't, perhaps you should abandon yoUr 
pretensions and sit back to enjoy' another 
example of Yalies working hard at 
~· 
art. Of course, in this case, the art is set to 
an '80s soundtrack, with a few close-up 
shots and a handful of love triangles 
thrown in for good measure. 


**Title: The College System**
**Author: Nicole Allan**
**Page number(s): 44-45**

uring my Yale . admissions 
tour, forty overeager high-
schoolers and I were herded 
through the iron gates of Si11itnan, 
arranged in a corner of the Frisbee-dot-
ted courtyard, and regaled with the 
merits of the residential college system. 
A couple of months later, in my inter-
view, I cited these merits as one of my 
prirnary motives for applying to Yale. I 
babbled•about how I longed for an inti-
mate liberal arts experience in the midst 
of a research university and described a 
dream. of four-year friendships, fierce 
loyalty, and a surrogate fami1y. I was cer-
tain lwould be a blissful Yale student. 
Accepted, I spent the endless stretch 
of summer repeatedly logging onto the 
lnterQet, where I was greeted by my 
homepage 
www..yale.edu. I navigated 
my way through residential college 
websites, comparing coats of arms and 
acquiring a fanii1iar ease with the 
Berkeley Dining Hall, the picturesque 
Branford courtyard, and the Silligym. I 
envisioned the envelope containing my 
college assigrunent as my most life-
detern•ining piece of rnai1 to date. I 
knew just enough about the colleges to 
detern•ine that I would be happy 
as 
long as I wasn't in Morse or Ezra-
Stiles. It was an aesthetic opinion; they 
were the "ugly'' colleges, lurking in an 
isolated corner of campus that definite-
ly wasn't included on my adtuissions 
ton£ I held my breath and mentally 
44 
• • • 
chanted, "Not Morse, not Stiles, not 
Morse, . not. Stiles." I opened the letter: . 
Stiles. 

When I lugged my boxes across Old 
Campus in . late . August, I quickly 
learned that Camp Yale is all about col-
leges. Registration meetings, receptions, 
and formal dinners plucked me from 
the grassy, Gothic paradise of Old 
Campus and deposited me amidst the 
irregular angles of Stiles. At gathering 
after g~thering, I was told why my col-
lege was the most tighdy-knit, enthusi-
astic , and charismatic of all Yale's col-
leges. To cope with my disappointtnent, 
I decided to buy into the hype. I attend-
ed study breaks and IM practices armed 
with a rabid devotion to my underdog 
college. I told my parents 
who wor-
ried about the unusual architecture and 
abundance of. critne in Stiles' environs 
-
·that the college's students made up 
for its "undesirable" status. All of my 
friends were in Stiles, and even the din-
ing hall was growing on me. 

hen I arrived at Yale, I tried 
on a new personality. I 
went out two or three 
nights a week, hosted coundess dance 
pat ties in my corrunon room, and thor-
oughly enjoyed mysel£ Removed from 
the college enviromnent by three weeks 
of winter break, however, I was dissatis- . 
fied with the new me. Something about 
rny college experience was beginning to 
• ., 
make me uncomfortable.. . l . sifted 
through my photos on Face~ook.com 
and cringed to see they all featured a 
dressed-up version _ of ·myself posing 
with people I bati:ly knew at· parties I 
scarcely remembered. I spent hours 
recounting these feelings~to my best 
friend from home. At the"" end of one of 
these long sessions, she reassured me, 
c'Don't worry. I lost you there for a biy 
but now you're back." And I was. 

Upon my return to Yale, I was not 
entirely sure how to fix the problem I 
started avoiding everything I had 
embraced during the fall; stopped 
spending tirne in Lawrance, used the 
back door of my suite in order to cir-
cumvent my common room, and cut 
off the Stiles friendships which, up to 
that point, had defined my social life. 
My next step was to find a new world in 
which to irnmerse myself. I strength-
ened friendships I had formed around 
shared interests and activities rather 
than residential proximity. One of my 
closest friends was in Calhoun. I'd met 
and liked a couple of her suitemates. By 
Februaty, I informed my dean that I 
wanted to switch colleges. 

lthough I filled out the paper:. 
work and met with the al')1f~ 
priate - officials, a sense ·of 
betrayal deterred me from 'te11ing other 
Stilesians about my plans 
even my 
suitet ••ates. It also took titne· to get up 
'IHE NEW JOURNAL 

\ l 
..... 
.. 
I 
. . ;. 
' ' 
' ~ 
' . • 
I . 
... .. 
t 
.,. 
J. 
.. !the nerve to tell my family. After men-
)tioning it· oft-handedly to my sister dur-
(itig·a phone conversation, she confront-
;ed me on 'issues I'd refused to acknowl-
·er1~· 
• '""5'"'• 
! : · · f;I thought you loved the college sys-
~tetJ~hecause it threw you into a group of 
) ~' 
;random people who you wouldn't have 
;gotten to know otherwise," she remind-
·;oo me. ~'During the entire fall you were 
~tavipg about how much you love the 
.r 
~di~tSity. And now you're just going to 
,l~av~ . and · · try somewhere else?" 
·Eanba rrasse<l, I could only mwnble a 
. ' 
~'I hope you're not switching just 
you want a mcer 
space, 
" she added with contempt. 
. . . : I snapped. 

2 ' • ;--.. · 1 did not want to switch in order to 
' . 
--Wake up to gothic arches. My reasons 
~ ~ 
·had .Q.0tlnng to do with Stiles' looks or 
.,.;r;·, 
'locatipn. And I refused to feel like a fail-
~ . 
. . r . 
. ~- I didn't fall in love with the 
,_ 
\whom I was randomly grouped 
·with. 'I hat said, I did reaHze that I could 
not 
my alienation on Stiles or 
' 'other 
Stilesians. 
They 
had - not 
!~anged I was the one undergoing a 
• .ttaitsition. 

l 
1, Despite my effort to ~eep it quiet, my 
;decision . soon leaked 
throughout 
;I,.a~ce. Hbwever, the backlash of my 
· ipet;:~ was diluted by the fact that eight 
:r 
..-: 
~~ther Stiles freshmen (of the original 
'113). were also transfening out. The 
,kn~edge that nearly ten percent of 
·the freshmu1 in my college felt similarly 
naisplaced gave my daitns a sense of 
.legi~cy. 1 resolved to snnnount my 
'feelings of hypocrisy and explain the sit-
uation to fellow Stilesians. Yes, in the fall 
• jihad. · 
Stiles. 1 had played IM's. I 
.have pictures of· myself grinnin& my 
contorted to spell out 
the' letters ~'E Sti." But aren't we expect-
ed to 
during freshman year? 

hree of my closest friends 
also swttched colleges 
two 
from 
Stiles, 
one 
Edwards. rve talked to many 
others who have tried, with varying 
Packing off to a new college for a fresh start. 
success. Reasons range frotn 
aesthetic 
inequality 
''Stiles is depressing and 
ugly" (a transfer request that was not 
granted) 
to a lack of friends in one's 
current college and a concentration of 
them in another. 

Due to a housing crunch this year, 
neither Si11iman nor Trumbull accepted 
transfers, contributing to a slight dip in 
the number of requests and the success 
rate. 'Ibis year, 41 people attempted to 
switch and 29 succeeded I.ast year's 
results are more typical: 59 requests to 49 
approvals. These nutnbers reveal that the 
residential college systetn is not without 
its faults 
not surprisingly, though, they 
are not advertised by Yale. 

My dean described the transfer selec-
tion process as "pretty much like 
poker." From what I could gather, the 
•. 
deans of each college sit at a large table, 
hold cards with the narnes of students 
• • 
attempting to switch, and barter. If 
three people leave Branford, the dean 
of that college can accept thtee new 
students. Colleges like to keep the 
in/ out ratio as even as possible. Stiles 
usua11y has a seven-in, seven-out aver-
age; but this year proved a depar tore 
from the norm. Nine students are leav-
ing. No one is switching in. 

he amount of hard work and 
luck necessary to tnake the 
switch prompts n1any students 
to retnain passive even when they are 
unhappy in their colleges. When I 
explained my reasons for 
· 
var-
ious friends in Stiles echoed most of my 
dissatisfactions. But, nn1ike me, they still 
feel a vague loyalty to the college to 
which they were assigned. 

I tnay have insulted some Stilesians 
with my decision, and my story will be 
omitted on an admissions tour of the 
University. A glitch in the ancient and 
infaJJible college system, my t rnnsfer will 
disappear within the greater history of 
Yale University's residential colleges. But 
I signed up for this glorified residential 
college system as advetl ised, and I an1 
still deten nined to experience it to its 
fullest potential. Next year I look for-
ward to living with three of my favorite 
people, going to breakfast in my paja-
'''as, attending Master's Teas, and fanati-
cally screat11ing college cheers with my 
new £uni1y. 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
I 
46 
-
~ 
:<:. 
the basement of 
aw~t1ng only the occasional,.;'~;:;; 
,, .,,,,, 
f"rTT traditionalists. The.cabinets, emptied of their indicies, Wl 
. 
& Information 
.,.., 
,• ·--·-·--·-· 
·-. 
:-. 
-~--
·-
___ , 
Food --&:Drink: · Lay the 
guests coffee . ...,. ... _,,,,,_;r y 
795 Games of Chance: Fill a 
:-:-.--
Dran1a: Insist that the referenc;~e :!!!!~~~~ ;:;,,,,_._.,:-; 
•• 
+-nr bucks . 
kind of idiot would bf!Y a 
might recognize that · ..uv 
sema _cabinet.at 
.-r-but growing 
:'VI _._,,"· · Be~ . to_ louldl) 
..... 
----.·- ... 
~ ..... ......... ,._ 
THE 
EWJOURNAL 


<br>

**Title: Yale University: Contributing to a Strong New Haven**
**Page number(s): 47**

,, 
E>ver 725 Yale·employees ha\l~······ 
····· purchased homes through ~lie 
Hom 
whidh provides 
·. ·· ·. ·•··· . employees wifh a $zs,ooo · ····. 
As the largest property taxpayer· 
in New Haven, Yale pays more than 
$J mtnion fn 
on 
nonacademic properties . 
T 
H 
BR 
WN 
M 
Each year, Yale makes a 
of $4.2 
to 
the 
.. Vale also pays for its own 
police force and trash disposal. 
__ , __ _ 
FoY tnfonnation on Yale's community 
' 
log 
.-.-
~:' 
•:::: 
April2006 
47

