Publication date: 10/85
Volume 18, Issue 2

**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Joyce BanerJee**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Why do you get a job without a start?" Arlene asked, striking her thigh with the hair-brush. "'Why do you keep having kids if you're on the state?' Who, who are you to question my life? If the state won't give me money, fine. I'll go home and live off the fields like my parents did." 

She hears the questions and insinuations from not only strangers and the media, but from social workers every six months, when Arlene has her welfare status reassessed. "Who are you living with? Is he giving you any money?" Each month, she receives from the state about $542 to pay for food, clothing, rent, telephone, and any other expenses that may arise. "Five hundred and forty dollars is nothing for four people. You're lucky if you have anything left at the end of the month," Arlene said. "If you don't budget, look at everything, you go hungry. It's $115 dollars for food stamps," she said, fingering the arithmetic on her wrist, "and $180 for rent, and all out of the same little bit of money. A lot of times, you just go without. I'm not knocking the state, I guess; no one else takes care of me." 

Still, Arlene feels the state seldom helps people who try to find a job and get off welfare. If she finds part-time work that pays her only $150 a week, she would have that deducted from her check, no matter how many children she has, no matter that on $150 a week, Arlene would make only $7500 annually, far below the poverty line of about $10,000. With additional checks, her rent, which is based on percentage of income, goes up, too. The only way Arlene can leave Elm Haven, and subsidized housing entirely, is not by waiting for the grand redevelopment but by getting a job. And despite the commonly held vision of impoverished New Haven, Arlene believes that she can find a job in this city. With only a high school degree, however, and years away from the summers when she worked on government-subsidized programs, Arlene hears from employers only demands for college and trade school degrees.


Having applied for jobs all over New Haven, she also understands the subtle racism at work when hiring. "In Macy's, do you ever see a black girl at the cosmetic counter? Hell, no! It has a lot of black employees, but they're back in the stockroom, packing and taking clothes in." 

Much of the city has placed its hopes for an employment boom on Science Park, Arlene's next door neighbor, which has already hired one-fifth of its nearly 500 employees from the Dixwell-Newhallville area. Yet Arlene knows little about the venture, who they have hired and what exactly they do. She, like many in Elm Haven, suspects that Science Park doesn't like sitting next to the projects. Outside of Elm Haven, others have different fears about the benefits Science Park will bring to the poor of this town. Unlike Arlene, it is not so much that the complex won't hire but will never be successful enough to employ large numbers of New Haveners. 

Yet Peter Gray, executive director of the Dixwell Neighborhood Corporation, has to believe in Science Park, "the only game in town." Like Senator Daniels, Gray grew up in a middle-class Elm Haven, and has worked for the last 15 years in the Corporation, trying to find jobs and a better way of life for his old neighbors and their children. Gray feels that for the thousands of disenfranchised New Haveners to leave poverty behind, the city, Yale, and Science Park must not only work together but show genuine commitment. Yet Gray asserts that the poor of New Haven were never a priority at City Hall. "For years, the city has been remiss. It has hired, on connections, political hacks rather than those who have a concern for public housing," Gray said emphatically. "How do they expect the poorest of the poor to survive? They think that by putting new windows there (Elm Haven), they're making things better." 

Gray points to Lake Place, a street right behind Payne Whitney Gym, as the result of true cooperation between Yale, the city, and the Corporation. Once a hangout for junkies, Lake Place is now a mixed-income neighborhood, housing New Haveners and Yale students alike. But projects like Lake Place are too rare for Gray. He contends the city is instead fixated with downtown development, relying on the "trickle down theory" to explain how the Palace and the Mall benefit all of New Haven. "The downtown development is crazy," Gray said. "It's like a head without the other parts. The projects in the outlying areas are the arms and legs of the city. For every project in downtown, I'd like Schiavone or whomever to do a project in the neighborhoods. A large percentage of the workers hired for both downtown and neighborhood projects should be from the poorer sections of town." 

But the bulk of the responsibility for renovating the neighborhoods lies with New Haven's blacks, Gray asserts. Too many of the first, middle-class Elm Haven generation have left the neighborhood; only a few in the Dixwell area are lifelong residents. Although he does not list ways black can help black, he maintains middle-class blacks have joined with whites against the demands of poorer blacks. "Many of the people who lived in the projects come back, forgetting it's no longer new. And they say, 'Those new people are terrible. They've torn everything up.' But people have been living there for 45 years!" Gray said. "You can't blame the guy on the bottom for what's happening. Hundreds of people left the housing. Rather than call the others names, they should reach back and help them get out." 

Arlene has probably never spoken with Gray nor heard about the need to return for those who can't leave. Right now, she cares only about her escape from the projects. She is trying to save money to go to South Carolina next summer, perhaps to stay there. At 27, she is still young, and comments on the fact that her sisters' lives didn't come together until they were in their thirties. "Down south, there are small houses. Give me a yard, a little fence," she draws a square in the air. "If I ever get a break, some money, yes, I am going home." 

joyce BanerJee, a senior in Timothy Dwight, is editor-in-chief of TNJ.