Publication date: Not specified
Volume: 27
Issue number: 5


**MASTHEAD:**
- **PUBLISHER:** Christina Lung
- **EDITOR-IN-CHIEF:** Suzann JGm
- **MANAGING EDITOR:** Katt Schultr
- **BUSINESS MANAGER:** Audrry Ltibovich
- **DESIGNER:** Ted Gtsing
- **PRODUCTION MANAGER:** Gabritl Snydtr
- **PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR:** Brmdan Kotrntr
- **CONTRIBUTING EDITOR:** joshua Civin
- **ASSOCIATE PUBLISHER:** Min Chm
- **ASSOCIATE PUBLISHER:** Harling WOng
- **ASSOCIATE EDITOR:** Kathtrint Btl/
- **ASSOCIATE EDITOR:** Bmjamin Lumpkin
- **RESEARCH DIRECTORS:** Brookt Conti
- **RESEARCH DIRECTORS:** Karm jacobson
- **CIRCULATION AND SUBSCRIPTION MANAGER:** Ttna As pia/a
- **CIRCULATION AND SUBSCRIPTION:** Danitl Andrujtlt • jacltit Cooptrman • Monica Fong • jacltit Goldbtrg • john Gorham • Roumary Hutzkr • Mtlissa MoJitof • Dan Murphy • jay Porttr • Sothy Tia • £/ana Ztitk
- **Members and Directors:** Edward B. Bennett III • Constance Clement • Perer B. Cooper • Andy Court • Brooks Kelly • Patricia Pierce • Kathy Reich • Fred Srrebeigh • Thomas Srrong • Jo~ Matud Tesoro
- **Friends:** Anson M. Beard, Jr. • EdwaJd B. Bennet£, Jr. • Edwanl B. Bennerr Ill • Blaire Bennetr • Paul S. Bennerr • Gerald Bruck • Jonathan M. Oark • Louise F. Cooper • Peter B. Cooper • Jerry and Rae Court • David Freeman • Geoffry Fried • Sherwin Goldman • Brooks Kdly • Roger Kirwood • Andrew J. KUU1eski, Jr. • Lewis E. Lehrman • E. Nobles Lowe • Peter Neill • Julie Peters • Fairfax C. Randal • Nicholas X. Rizopoulos • Arleen and Arthur Sager • Dick and Debbie Sears • Richard Shields • W. Hampton Sides • Thomas Strong • Elizabeth Tate • Alex and Betsy Torello • Allen and Sarah Wardell • Danid Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

The Selling of The Duke - Dan Murphy
The Connecticut justice System on Trial - Rosemary Hutzler
The Struggle for Democracy in Modem Times - Ben Lumpkin
Making a Deal to Dream - Daniel Seiler
In Pursuit of an Americanist Dream - joel Burges
Between the Vines:They're Praying for You - Jay Dixit


**Title: The Selling of The Duke**
**Author: Dan Murphy**
**Page number(s): 10**

New Haven's Winchester rifle factory looks to the future by invoking the legends of the Old West.


**Title: The Connecticut justice System on Trial**
**Author: Rosemary Hutzler**
**Page number(s): 14**

A recent graduate's film aims to get a woman out of prison.


**Title: The Struggle for Democracy in Modem Times**
**Author: Ben Lumpkin**
**Page number(s): 32**

A newspaper prepared New Haven radicals in the art of self-defense.


**Title: Making a Deal to Dream**
**Author: Daniel Seiler**
**Page number(s): s**

A class of fourth-graders joins forces with New Haven citizens to further their education.


**Title: In Pursuit of an Americanist Dream**
**Author: joel Burges**
**Page number(s): T**

Yale literary scholars contend with well-worn traditions in order to define a discipline.


**Title: Between the Vines:They're Praying for You**
**Author: Jay Dixit**
**Page number(s): 33**


**Title: About This Issue**
**Author: SAK**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Now is the winter of our discontent," declares Shakespeare's Richard III, utterly 
unaware that these lines would ring so true in contemporary New Haven. The line plays 
on its double meaning; read straight on, it sounds as if winter marks a rime of di'sconrenc. 
But upon closer scrutiny, the line promises the end of discontent. Now in April, we 
embrace the end of winter's bitter cold-our discontent. New Haven's climatic 
unpredictability notwithstanding, we've shed our scarves and wool gloves for the most 
part. But just as Shakespeare's line hovers in ambivalence, so do we, as we hold rhe jacket 
in a moment of indecision, tentatively fearing the cold that's wont ro bite back in a 
resurgence of winter. Anxious for a break, we gaze longingly at ou!"'shorts and t-shirrs, 
envious of those courageous few who have already donned them. Stir-crazy from months 
indoprs? Perhaps. But maybe our discontent stems from something more than the 
temperature. In spite of Yale's reputation for apathy and New Haven's for despair, rhe past 
few months and weeks have wirnessed a stirring of polirical senriment-and agirarion-
over what many liberals would call ruin and conservatives would call renewal. In spire of a 
hostile political climate, acrivisrs have overcome despair, fueled by discontent ro prorest 
and enact change. The Contract with America, California's Proposirion 187, and GESO's 
call for unionizarion have sparked fervenr debare, rife wirh a potenr mix of jargon and 
pure sentiment. Srudents and residents have galvanized ro protect what rhey call "jusrice," 
"rights," "opporrunity." Coming our of a winter ofharsh polirical forecasts, rhese acrivisrs 
brave the caprice of the New Haven spring and march across Cross Campus lawn, rally 
around City Hall. From a harsh and cold winter springs forth dialogue but not a lirrle 
diatribe. 

This issue's cover story harkens back to the 1970s when a group of New Haveners 
dedicated to raising political consciousness, founded a newspaper called the Modern Times. 
Written by Ben Lumpkin, rhe piece chronicles the lives of the paper and its people-those 
who ran it and those profiled in it. The Modern Times commitred itself ro letting voices be 
heard that would not otherwise be heard, voices speaking about urban redevelopment, 
environmental reform, social injustice. Although the paper was published 20 years ago, it 
addresses many of the same issues confronring New Haven roday. Rosemary Hutzler writes 
about Bonnie Jean Foreshaw, convicted of murder and sentenced ro 45 years in prison-
the longest sentence delivered to a woman in Connecticut. The srory relates whar 
happened when Bonnie met Yalie Ondi Timoner (SY '94). Together rhe rwo women have 
worked to serve justice rhrough film, after the court sysrem failed rhem. While the 
Consriturion makes promises, the courrs offer no such guaramees. By the same roken, rhe 
rift between academic ideals and their implementation can be vast. Joel Burges' piece on 
Americanist literary scholars reveals the fissure in academia between intellectual ideals of 
diversity and the troubled task of realizing these goals. 

Action takes myriad forms. Dan Seiler writes about the I Have a Dream program 
which selected a group of East Rock Community School fourth-graders to pay for their 
college or vocational school tuitions, looking for promise in the future. The prayer group 
led by New Haven resident Jere Garceau puts its hopes into the Yalies of roday. They pray 
for each freshperson class, targeting Yale because this is the place where furure leaders are 
born. Sound far-fetched? Maybe. 

The content of these anicles as well as a few changes in our design attempr to open up 
the lines of dialogue and articulate more than what is on the surface. 
-SAK


**Title: Uncle Vanyo's Peeker**
**Author: Jay Porter**
**Page number(s): 5**

If you missed the recent issue of Rolling 
Stone featuring the Drama School's buff 
and beautiful crop of soon-to-graduate 
third-year acting students, try to find a 
copy. T he Calvin Klein-clad actors 
'epitomize the Drama School's glossy 
mystique. We're unique, they seem to say. 
A breed apart. 

But Rolling Stone missed the real story, 
the inside scoop on the newest member of 
the Drama School scene. There's a new star 
on stage at the University Theater, one who 
steals the show every time he makes an 
entrance during the Yale Rep's production 
of Chekov's Uncle Vanya. As he waits in the 
wings for his cue, the other actors must feel 
a moment of terror. It may be his physical 
presence: short, flighcy, even slightly gamey. 
But when he struts onstage, the feeling 
must be pure chartreuse envy. In this 
sanctuary for rare birds, none can compare 
with him-and he always has the most 
striking costume. 

O nly if you have seen Uncle Vanya can 
you fully appreciate the effect produced by 
the onstage appearance of a white peacock. 
Of course most peacocks don't come in 
white: the very mention of the word 
summons an image of iridescent greens and 
blues, shades of gaudy pride. But Uncle 
\tanyas peacock-who answers ro the name 
Peeker-is a sort of minimalist mutant, 
perfectly in tune with maverick director 
Len Jenkin's vision for the show. Jenkin 
reportedly felt that a run-of-the-mill 
peacock would just not do the trick, 
and who can argue? The stage 
lights accentuate the stately curve 
of Peeker's body and illuminate 
t he showy expanse of his 
snow-white 
tail. 

The 
immaculate bird is the 
incarnation of the theatrical 
sublime in a show replete 
with nuance, charm, and 
style. 

Su blime, that 
is, if Peeker doesn't 
decide to flap his 
wings. The bird is, through no fault of his 
own, quite a prima donna. First of all, 
white peacocks cost about $300, six times 
as much as your average multicolored 
peacock. Peeker also requires special living 
accommodations: he spends his downtime 
in a cage at the Yale Animal Control center, 
with the Med School's sundry doomed 
rodents. As the kinder and gentler Drama 
School has a policy of not destroying has-
been actors, Peeker will not meet the fate of 
his neighbors. He must be sold or given 
away after the show closes on April 15. 

This means that Peeker's wings could not 
be clipped. Leashed at the ankle, Peeker is 
not exactly a free bird when he crosses the 
stage to open and close each performance 
of Uncle Vtmya, but his presence injects a 
delicious unpredictability befitting Jenkin's 
slightly loopy production. 

Though they maintain a professional 
resolve about the situation, the human 
actors know that working next to Peeker 
means flouting a long-standing maxim. 
"The actors don't like being on stage with 
it-surprise, surprise," says a Technical 
Design and Production student familiar 
with the production. "Definite 'dogs and 
children' potential. They're afraid of being 
upstaged." 

Or perhaps just being pecked ro death. 
This seems unlikely, however, as Kiki Short 
(ORA '95) stands ready ro dash onstage to 
save her classmates in the unlikely event 
that Peeker runs amok. As the show's 
official Peacock Wrangler, Short has so far 
had no such challenges. Her main job is to 
give Peeker his cues, basically a matter of 
pushing his plumed ass onstage and then 
snatching him up in the dark of the scene 
change. Peeker's big moment comes in the 
last scene, when he jumps up onto a table. 
It's not as if he has to jump through 
flaming hoops, but audiences love it all the 
same. 

At curtain call, though, the familiar 
pecking order reasserts itself and the 
humans get all the applause. The talented 
Uncle Vanya troupe takes a bow, sans 
Peeker. It looks like he needs a better 
agent-one who doesn't mind getting paid 
chicken feed. 


6 
STUDENTS SLEEP 
I.N CLASS • • • 
... AND COMFORT ON A RUBBER 
MATCH FUTON. IT'S VERSATILE-A 
COUCH, BED, AND LOUNGER ALL 
IN ONE. 
PLEASE SHOP EVERYWHERE 
ELSE FIRST. SHOP US LAST. 
VOTED #1 FUTON STORE FOR 
BEST QUALITY AND PRICES IN 
1993 AND 1994 BY THE NEW 
HAVEN ADVOCATE READERS POLL. 
RUBBER MATCH FUTONS-
WE'RE MATCHLESS! 
101 WHALLEY AVE. 
624-8410 


**Title: Satchel Sage Speaks**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 6**

Once upon a time, discriminating 
between graduate students and undergrads 
was a simple matter. I grant you that the 
guidelines were never clear-cut, but as this 
division was never more than a diversion, it 
didn't much matter. What mattered was that 
if you wanted to assign labels, wanted to 
make a point about thc!t:lientele of a certain 
restaurant or the inhabitants of a certain 
carrel, you could do so with relative ease, if 
not absolute impunity. For back in those 
days, graduate students carried satchels, and 
undergraduates carried backpacks. 

Without passing judgement on either 
group's abiliry to accessorize, let us consider 
this division. We may go so far as to. say 
that, in the state of nature, most graduates 
. wear satchels, while most undergraduates 
wear backpacks. There is probably an 
entirely practical explanation for this split-
something to do with the nature of classes 
taken, or perhaps a GESO edict suggesting 
that graduate students support the United 
Federation of Satchel Workers-but we are 
not concerned with such details. We are, 
rather, concerned with image: satchels 
suggest purpose, sryle, and a certain aura of 
• 



**Title: The Satchel and the Backpack**
**Author: Brooke Conti**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
mystery. (What, after all, does the average 
undergrad know about his TA? That she 
lives somewhere within rhe New Haven area 
code, and chat she occasionally has office 
hours, though he's nor sure just when or 
where). Satchels also go very well with black. 
Backpacks, on the other hand, are more 
casual, utilitarian, and not unsuited to 
flannel shirts. They don't suggest much 
more than youth and perhaps sportiness; 
certainly they say nothing in particular 
about the nature of one's studies. 
Unfortunately, the once-dear distinction 
berween students has been blurring, and it is 
not because graduate students have heard 
rhe gospel of Jansport. Rather, increasing 
numbers of undergraduates are leaving their 
Eddie Bauer standbys_ at home with their 
unreturned high school textbooks and their 
old Esprit bookbags. It is now possible ro 
wander through Willoughby's and find 
satchel-sporting students waving their hands 
over their double-tall, non-fat lattes as they 
discuss the horrors of English 129 papers-
meaning the writing rather than the grading. 
I have no serious complaints to lodge 
with chose undergraduates who have 
adopted satchels as their own. It's a certain 
sartorial statement, after all, and as I am 
unlikely co mistake a random sophomore for 
my philosophy TA based simply upon her 
book-carrying apparatus, it's even a fairly 
harmless one. Nevertheless, it's difficult not 
ro notice char certain undergraduates are 
more fond of such statements-not to 
mention more willing to throw rheir 
shoulders out of alignment-chan are 
others. 

Undergraduate satchel carriers choose 
their bags co make a statemenr, to assert 
their independence from the knapsack 
mafia, and to express their own deeply-held 
sense of purpose. Many are headed to grad 
school in the I iberal arts, and thus are 
declaring either the seriousness of their 
purpose or their solidarity with their TA's. 
Some may have returned from a year abroad 
(usually in Europe), while others simply see 
themselves as somehow differenr: trendier, 
more suave, and utterly unafraid to walk 
wirh a distinct rightward lise. Satchels do 
look conveniently like briefcases, when seen 
APRIL 14, 1995 
from a distance, and 
may, for this reason, 
attract 
the 
pre-
professional 
crowd. 
However, ir is theater, 
comp lit, and foreign 
language majors who . 
seem most partial to 
// 
satchels; I'll leave it co you 
ro decide just why this should 
be so. 
And indeed, should you 
decide to become a satchel-
spotter yourself, an array of 
other trends and subcategories 
will no doubt suggest themselves-the 
critical divide between leather and nylon 
satchels, rhe ambiguous case of the 
backpack worn on one shoulder-bur 
those issues bear more serious scrutiny than 
this brief introduction can provide. So good 
luck, and happy theorizing. 
-Brooke Conti 
(Brooke, by the way, has never carried 
anything that could be described as even 
remotely satchei-like-unlen you count the 
abovementioned Esprit bags, of which she 
owned three.)


**Title: Revising the 'F' Word**
**Author: Hillary Margolis**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

Perhaps there is no sex at Yale, but no 
one can accuse Yalies of lacking in 
conversation. After four hours of chatting 
in Kate's common room, my thighs are 
beginning to leave a permanent imprint in 
the brown vinyl of her Salvation Army sofa. 
Tonight's conversation has run the usual 
gamut of topics, from classes and professors 
to significant (or insignificanr) ochers. 
Topics nor unusual for two people who 
balance precariously on the line between 
acquaintances and friends, who chat when 
rhey cross paths on Old Campus and 
always say they will call bur rarely take the 
time to dial. 

So I am mildly surprised when our 
conversation about women's groups on 
campus leads to a more heated topic: 
feminism. Warning signs flash in my head 
like an air-raid siren, but I push them away 
effortlessly. After having this conversation 
countless rimes, my friend's comments will 
I 
' ' 
undoubtedly be no more than the 
annoying buzz of a fly trapped berween the 
screen and the windowpane. I have become 
an expert at swatting feminist flies. 

I look into Kate's eyes, all innocence 
framed by mousy eyeglasses and a blunt 
strip of schoolgirl's bangs. Definitely not 
the weathered face of someone who has 
passed long afternoons discussing feminist 
theory. So at the mention of feminism, I 
decide to get right down co business. Why 
extend a conversation when I could knock 
Kate down and be our of here before we hit 
round three? 

''I'm for women's rights, bur I don't call 
myself a feminist," I say. "I consider myself 
an equalise." My voice rakes on a slightly 
self-righteous tone. Surely Kate has never 
been exposed co this position on the issue. 
Kate smiles in a way I int~rpret as 
timid. "You don't want to discuss chis with 
me." She waves her hand shyly. "I have 
very strong feelings about the matter." 

Did I say she waved her hand shyly? 
Her gesture now seems more akin to the 
shooing away of a bothersome mosquito. 
But I refuse to metamorphose from prize-
fighter to annoying insect this quickly. 

I calmly explain to her in very 
measured tones that rhe term feminist no 
longer has the same meaning that it did 
during the feminist movement 30 years 
ago, but my heart begins its own Kentucky 
Derby at the thought that I might actually 
7 


**Title: Patagucci**
**Author: Susan Burton**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

I am one of the guilty ones. In my 
closet hang seven Patagonia jackets. An 
eighth, a synchilla vest, size S, blueberry, is 
on its way via UPS. I don Gore-Tex at the 
most innocuous drizzle, and two of me 
could fit inside my strap-laden backpack. 
My all-leather Vasque hiking boots, 
scuffed and softened, give me about 
as much support as a bedroom 
slipper, though I've only really hiked 
in them five times. You know how 
treacherous New Haven sidewalks 
can be. 

For the most part, Yalies who 
dress in fleece and puffy vests have 
some kind of American West hangup, 
myself included. Somewhere behind 
every earflap hat wearer there's a 
summer in Jackson Hole or a ski 
vacation in Telluride; a friend who 
did what one wished one could have 
and went to college at Boulder; or a 
brother who makes his living white 
water rafting in Utah. Remember 
that course you took whose syllabus 
included Black Elk and Frederick 
Jackson Turner? It's no accident that 
Guide Shells were strewn across the 
backs of 90 percent of the chairs in 
the lecture hall. Forget about noble 
savages, covered wagons, cowboys, 
and silver mining. At Yale, we've co-
opted mountaineering clothing as 
our own particular piece of the 
frontier myth. 

Trailblazer, on Elm Street, caters to our 
fancy- "fancy" meaning just that ... It's no 
big surprise when a flannel clad salesman 
explains to me that it's "fashion before 
functionality" when it comes to the 
Patagonia line. North Face, on the other 
hand, puts rock climbing before window 
shopping, powder skirts before detachable 
hoods. "North Face is hot," he says. "This 
time next year, it'll be the hot thing. It's 
street wear." Street wear? I nod politely and 
busy myself with the Cap ilene collection. A 
street wear classification, industry code for 
knit caps, Raiders jackets, and all around 
gangsta chic, does not bode well for 
venerable mountaineering gear-maker 
North Face. It's a niche from which 
recovery is unlikely, the trek back to the 
trout streams and the Tetons an arduous 
one. Patagonia, the J. Press of backcountry 
outfitters, will not make the same mistake. 

The coolest Patagonia on campus is a 
fuzzy cream-colored zip-up (for all you 
techies: I'm talking Pile Glissade) which 
makes the wearer look rather like a sheep. 
Backpack honors go to Golden, Colorado's 
Mountainsmith line, whose smallest size 
(Grand Tour) seems to be designed for 
those nights you need to lug sixty or more 
books home from Sterling. But don't rush 
out to Trailblazer with your $150 in hand 
just yet-now that Mountainsmith is 
available for purchase up the block from 
Yale Station, it'll lose a little of its insider 
cachet. 

What kind of a frontier is this? With 
the requisite uniform subject to cooler-
than-thou and 1-was-there-first scrutiny 
(e.g., "Dude, your raingear is from when 
the Patagonia logo still had the pointy 
letters?"), it might appear that Yale's eye is 
focused more on Seventh Avenue than on 
Crested Butte. But like any uniform, this 
one serves as an identifier: a signal that 
though one may be serving out four years 
in this dreary town, one's allegiance lies 
elsewhere, amidst the fresh powder and the 
red rocks. 

Quite 
often, 
unlike 
subgroups of people who wear 
concert t-shirts without ever having 
heard the band or subscribe to Th( 
New Yorker because it looks so smart 
when visitors thumb through the 
magazines on the common room 
table, Trailblazer types really do 
strike out for the Territory. The trip 
West is fast replacing the European 
Grand Tour as the post-grad rite of 
passage. The next time you take a 
walk up Elm Street, stop in 
Trailblazer and you'll probably see 
someone you know trying on a 
synchilla or getting fitted for new 
hiking boots. Ask them what they're 
doing this summer: the answer 
probably involves a state west of the 
Mississippi. Thousands of miles 
away from East Rock or on that hike 
up Pikes Peak, whether or not your 
polypropelene will really wick away 
moisture actually matters. 
-Susan Burton 


**Title: Thanks!**
**Author: The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 9**

Thanks! 
from The New Journal 
Atlcmtic Moothly, ~ul Bass, Abby Benson, 
Virgilm Blaisdell, Joel Burges. Susan 
Burton, Jay Dixit, Alex Funk, Roman 
Groysman. Michael Jo, San ~Lm. Lisa 
Kavanaugh, Caroline A. Kim, Hillary 
Margolis, Mike Morand, Sharon Palmer, 
Julie Pederson, Dusha.n Petrovich, R.lzwa.n 
Rahim, Alma Roblado, Daniel Seiler, 
Olarles Wachter, Yale Dramat, CC+l7.



**Title: The Selling of the Duke**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The ·Selling ol the Duke 
_;;;;;;;;,;---
The 8-:foot t4ll 
bronze stat~e of 
cinematic hero 
john ~ 
stands..i• lhr 
Winchester 
factory entr7 
• 
-
10 
New Hoven's Winchester rifle factory 
looks to the future by invoking the 
legends of the Old West. 

M
he edge of New Haven on Winchester Avenue lies a 
turistic arms factory. Built in 1994 by Giat 
dustries, the new factory of the U.S. Repeating Arms 
mpany, Inc. makes Winchester rifles and shotguns 
for hunting and sport-shooting. Here a declining war-munitions 
factory tries to reverse its downward trend and set forth a new 
image of modern production. At the front of this effort to bring 
Winchester into the twenty-first century is spokesman John 
Wayne. 

When the Duke was gunning down cinematic bandits and 
hustlers in the 1940s, Winchester was at its peak, with a 
workforce 40 times larger than its current group of 475 
employees. Only two of the factory buildings from that era 
remain. The older of the two is completely vacated and 
decaying; through its glassless windows 
one can still see the large outdated 
machines left behind when the building 
closed. The other building, recently 
declared a New Haven landmark, 
currently houses larger machinery and 
Winchester's management offices. The 
company is slowly phasing out the 
building, relocating its departments to 
~ the new factory. A larger than life 
§ bronze statue of John Wayne stands at 
i" the entrance to the building-
~ Winchester's ambassador to the world. 
1! With his cowboy hat pulled down and 
~ his ammo belt hanging loose from his 
% side, the Duke has his trusty 
~ Winchester in hand. 

The 1994 opening of the state-of-
}; the-art facility across the street seemed 
~ inconceivable just a few years ago . 
~ Winchester struggled through 1990, 
sometimes failing to pay its workers 
and eventually shutting down for three 
months. Cutting corners on the 
assembly line had led to a decline in the 
quality of the rifles produced. It seemed 
possible that the Winchester Rifle 
would be no more. That's when 


Giat, a private company owned by the French government, stepped 
in. In 1991 it bought Winchester and initiated plans to build the 
new factory. 

On paper Giat's decision made no sense. At the time, Winchester 
desperately needed new machinery and facilities, and this wasn't the 
first time that the company was on the fiscal ropes. Throughout its 
convoluted financial history, Winchester has often teetered on the 
verge of bankruptcy. In 1981, the top management purchased 
Winchester and re-formed it as the U.S. Repeating Arms Company. 
In 1985 the company received a $6 million federal loan guarantee, 
but nevertheless filed for Chapter 11 protection in 1986. 

Throughout this period, Winchester somehow managed to continue 
producing. 

Winchester's history has always been characterized by cycles of 
boom and bust, having supplied militaries from its founding in the 
late nineteenth century through the 1950s. Mexican troops fighting 
for independence from France used Winchesters. The Union even 
used a few of rhe Henry model rifles near the end of the American 
Civil War. When the Spanish-American War began in 1898, 
Winchester had 3,000 employees and was operating 24 hours a day. 
And in World War I, Winchester's 17,000 workers supplied firearms 
nor only to the Americans but also to the British. 

Despite the 500,000 rifles produced for the Allies in WWI, 
Winchester soon faced low prices and escalating costs. The plant 
doubled irs size and drastically increased employment levels for war-
time production. After the war was over, to make use of the extra 
machinery and workers, Winchester began manufacturing new 
products. The Winchester line grew to include everything from paint 
to baseball mitts, fishing rods ro roller skates. It distributed irs 
products nationwide through Winchester catalogs and company 
APRIL 14, 1995 
stores, much like Sears and Roebuck. Their 300-page catalog from 
1927 boasted, "Winchester is a line of which you can weU be proud." 

These side productions were dropped during the Depression 
when Olin Industries, another arms manufacturer, saved Winchester 
from irs first bankruptcy. Olin returned to producing strictly 
firearms, just in time to benefit from the increased demand caused by 
World War II. 

The Winchester of WWII employed 20,000 people and reached 
unprecedented levels of production, bur that number again tapered 
off dramatically after the war. Winchester depended on government 
contracts until the end of rhe Korean War. Since that rime, the 
company repeatedly reduced its workforce. 

When it bought Winchester in 1991, Giat did not foresee a war 
in America's future. Nor did its management plan to produce 
military weapons or any other type of offensive arms. There was only 
one logical reason to invest in Winchester: John Wayne. 

In the films of the 40s and 50s, slinging his Winchester through 
the American West, John Wayne gave the company something 
money. couldn't buy: reputation. The Winchester rifle became a part 
of American history and lore. It was "the gun that won the West" in 
the hands of the cowboys that the Duke portrayed. It was also the 
gun that won WWII in the hands of the men of John Wayne's 
generation. A Winchester rifle was one of quality. But the 
Winchester also had a special character. As a symbol of aU that was 
American, it was something of which a nation at war could be proud. 

Giat bought into the Winchester myth. The mystique behind the 
gun was somehow greater than the sum of the barrel and stocks, 
springs and levers. And the image of the urban factory worker who 
placed each piece into the gun only added to the mystique. 

And just as he had popularized the Winchester in the 1940s, 


Wayne became the spokesman for a new 
generation ofWinchester products. 

When Giat took over, it combined the 
image of the Old West with that of a family 
of urban workers. In its workplace, Giat has 
tried to return to the attitude of the 40s and 
50s, when Winchester was one very proud 
fa• -:ly. The Wmchester myth comes across 
cl . ·I; in the product catalog. It touts the 
"Weapons of Legend" as a return to quality. 
Viewing the scenes depicted, one might 
imagine that the land west of the Mississippi 
remains an untamed wilderness. The logo 
portrays a saddled cowboy, harkening back 
to the time when Annie Oakley and Buffalo 
Bill were carrying Winchesters. 

Winchester's own promotional video 
also highlights the "new anitude and 
enthusiasm" among workers since Giat took 
over. It features Mike Sanchez, a shotgun 
machine operator, saying, "The way we all 
communicate is like one family. Everybody 
treats others like family." It's obviously to 
Winchester's advantage to portray its 
workforce as content and cooperative, but 
this depiction of the situation may turn out 
to be more than just an image for the sake of 
public relations-Giat's management may 
have succeeded at inspiring a real 
enthusiasm in the factory. 

Several policies have been particularly 
12 
~elpfuJ in raising employee morale. For the 
past seven years, Winchester has used the 
"team cell" production method rather than 
the standard assembly line. A small group of 
workers in a particular part of the factory 
add a specific part to a gun before it moves 
on to the next stage. T he move to the new 
factory, entirely contained on one floor, 
simplifies employee tasks by placing 
complementary "team cells" close to each 
other. "Team cells" have encouraged 
cooperation among a tightly knit group. 
When the workers were spread out across 
the four cavernous Aoors of the old factory, 
working at Winchester meant anonymity. 

Winchester set up "re-think teams" in 
each department. Composed of all the 
management and 
workers 
in 
the 
department, these groups provide a forum 
for ideas on ways to improve the production 
method or general factory conditions. "In 
our department, we've improved everything 
from the machines to the toilet paper in the 
bathrooms," said Darrell Morbidelli, a 
worker in the shotgun department. Re-think 
teams epitomize a new cooperation between 
management and the union workers. Before 
Giat, Winchester's recent history was 
marked by constant conflict between the 
International Machinists Union and 
management. "We definitely have more of a 
In our department, 
we've improved 
everything from the 
machines to the toilet 
paper in the 
bathrooms. 
-Darrel Morbidelli 
voice [now] than before Giat took over," 
said Morbidelli. 

The language used by the workers to 
describe the atmosphere in the plant and the 
future of the company resembles the 
rhetotic in Winchester's promotional 
materials. Leaving work for the day, Bob 
Forte, also from the shotgun department, 
explained, "The problems that had existed 
inside the factory have been solved." He 
added, "There's a new anitude in the 
factory. There's definitely a sense that we're 
on the way up." 

Winchester seems to have succeeded in 
creating a family-like working environment. 
The atmosphere they have sought to create 
recalls that which arose naturally at 
Wmchester during WWII, when the factory 
was almost a city within a city. 

F
rom 1942 through the 1950s, 
employees published Winchestn Lifo, a 
monthly mag22ine whose title reAects 
the degree to which workers identified 
themselves with their workplace. The pages 
of the magazine recorded the social lives and 
family lives of the workers. For many 
employees these revolved around the factory. 
The Winchester Club, for example, was an 
employee facility next to the factory that 
included a full gymnasium and workout 
equipment. Employees staged musicals and 
variety shows throughout this period. 
Wmchester boasted an extensive recreational 
sport league, with both men and women 
employees playing for 
their 
own 
department. Issues of Winch~sur Lifo also 



**Title: Winchester Repeating Arms**
**Author: Dan Murphy**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
included messages of congratulations for 
those who had been employed at the factory 
for 50 years or more. 


These factory-sponsored activities all 
took place at a time when the nation was 
fully mobilized for war, and many of those 
working in the factory received exemptions 
from service because they had special skills 
in a vital war industry. Factory workers 
developed the kind of loyalty towards 
Winchester that servicemen held for their 
branch of the military. A fraternal 
camaraderie arose that made Winchester a 
strong firm with a reputation for a qualiry 
product. 


The family atmosphere and undying 
employee loyalty proved invaluable when 
the company tried to push its production 
capacity in WWII. For today's Winchester, 
these intangibles ace elusive goals, but goals 
towards which it has made great strides as it 
modernizes its facilities. 


Winchester breaks its plans for future 
progress into phases. Planning for Phase 
Two includes a complete relocation from the 
old factory into the new plant. The physical 
move reveals an optimism on the pare of 
Winchester. It foresees continuing success in 
the sporting-arms market. Thus far, results 
have been very encouraging. Production 
increased by 20,000 rifles from 1992 to 
1993, and this year, production will exceed 
270,000 rifles. The management aims to 
turn out nearly twice as many by the year 
2000. 


But the West was won long ago. 
Winchester wiJI never again play a major 
role in global affairs the way it did in the 
World Wacs. It must prevent the layoffs and 
union disputes and maintain the qualiry of 
its product. Still, the new factory gleams 
beside its decaying predecessors. Inside, the 
eight-foot tall statue of John Wayne is more 
than a memorial. It has grown slightly 
tarnished over the years, but, for now, the 
legend lives on. 

I8J 
Dan Murphy. a fr~shmon in Timothy Dwight 
Colkg~. is on th~ staff o[fNJ. 
APRIL 14, 1995 


**Title: The Connecticut Justice System on Trial**
**Author: Rosemary Hutzler**
**Page number(s): 15**

Late on the evening of March 26, 1986, Bonnie Jean Foreshaw 
dropped off a friend in a rough section of Hartford. On her 
way home to Bloomfield she stopped at rhe Jamaica 
Progressive League, a social club on Albany Avenue. Several 
months earlier she had separated from her abusive husband, who 
co-ntinued to stalk her and her children. Fearing an attack from him, 
she had recently starred carrying a handgun for the first time in her 
life. 


Inside the club a man Bonnie did not know offered to buy her a 
drink. She declined, saying she did not accept drinks from strangers. 
The man, Hector Freeman, grew angry and began to shout that he 
would "fuck her up." She left, and he followed her out to the street, 
accompanied by a woman named Joyce Amos, whom Bonnie had 
never met bur who seemed to know Freeman. Amos tried to stop him 
from harassing Bonnie, bur without success. As Freeman came toward 
her, Bonnie pulled our her gun and fired without aiming, hoping to 
scare him away. But he pulled Amos in front of him, and the bullet 
hit her, ricocheting fatally off her shoulder blade into her heart. 


Doctors discovered that Amos was six months pregnant; the fetus was 
delivered stillborn. 


Bonnie Foreshaw is now serving a 45-year sentence for murder in 
the first degree, the longest sentence currently imposed on any 
woman in the state of Connecticut. 


When Ondi Timoner (SY '94) mer Bonnie, Ondi was four 
months away from graduation. Bonnie faced another 38 years at 
Niantic Correctional Facility for Women in East Lyme. Ondi was 
filming her senior project, a documentary called voices From Inside 
1ime, based on interviews with women at the Niantic prison school. 
On the last day of filming she sought out Bonnie at the urging of 
several other inmates, who called Bonnie a role model and an 
inspiration. 


While the guards were changing shift, Ondi managed to sneak her 
camera into Bonnie's cell for an hour-long, unmonitored interview. 
sympathetic portrait of one group of what she caJls "transgressive • 
women." Bur nothing had prepared her for the contents of that hour. 


Bonnie contended that her rights had been violated from the ... 
moment she was taken into custody. After the shooting, a number of ·..; 
political factors having liule to do with her had shaped her case: a 
vocal anti-abortion lobby seeking a double murder charge for the 
• 
deaths of Amos and her fetus; a politically sensitive state's attorney ~= 
and state legislature in an election year; and a public defender of • 
prodigious incompetence. Having lost her her first appeal and served 
=
eight years in prison, Bonnie was preparing a habeas corpus action . ; a
against the state. Still awaiting scheduling, that suit will auempt to -'{ 
prove that Bonnie's imprisonment is illegal, on the grounds that her -':: 
original trial violated her Sixth Amendment right to effective counsel. 


Ondi was deeply affected by what she calls the "miscarriage of -; 
justice" that had allowed Bonnie to be railroaded by the legal system. 
She resolved to use aU the resources at her disposal to help Bonnie set 
the record straight. Her determination resulted in a feature-length _ 
documentary devoted to Bonnie's life and case, called The Naturr of :: 
the B£ast. The film is a testament to the commitment of two women ·; 
on opposite sides of the camera and opposite extremes of privilege, 
united in pursuit of justice. 


Ondi had long been interesred in the subject of 
authority and the influence of gender, class, and race 
on its administration, particularly in cases involving 
bartered women. She had conceived of voices as a 
crime-ridden Liberty City area with the stepfather :: 
b .RJ 
Bonnie claims molested her when she was 11. 


"We were amateurs then," says David, ten . ~ 
months and miles of experience later. Equipped with ; . 



**Title: Bonnie's Case**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
only an 8mm hand-held camcorder and the 
essential facts of Bonnie's case, they had to 
learn as ·they went, both about the intricacies 
of the case and about the art of film-making. 
Bonnie's brother, a Miami police officer, 
provided them with many leads on the legal 
details of the case. And the interviews with 
her parents offered suggestive glimpses of her 
childhood home. Through skillful editing 
these fuzzy, backlit takes were later 
incorporated into one of the film's grimly 
ironic moments: 
"No," laughs her mother, "he never 
touched her. He'd run away before he'd beat 
any of them." 
"When she confronted him about it," 
says Bonnie in her cell, "he adamantly 
denied it and started beating me and her." 
Cut to the stepfather: "I didn't put my 
... 
hands on her, on account of she wasn't my 
daughter, you understand? You can't put 
your hands on nobody else's children." 

Back in New Haven, Ondi began to see 
that it would take the whole summer 
and a mountain of investigative work 
to do the film right. She and David 
marshaled the forces of several friends to help 
with research and production. One of the 
principals was Peter Conolly-Smith (GRD 
'95), an American studies graduate student 
whose zealous involvement with the 
production put him months behind on his 
dissertation. Another central figure was 
Graham Brownstein (PC '96), research 
coordinator, who doubled as Ondi's 
boyfriend-"the hardest job of all," 
according to David. 

Everyone held day jobs to pay the rent in 
New Haven, rushing home to work on the 
film until four each morning. Ondi's 
obsession with the film caused her to lose an 
office job in New Haven and give up an 
internship with PBS in New York; she had 
better luck as a nude model and a 2-WALK 
guard. Short on time and shorter on 
funding, she criss-crossed the state with a 
borrowed camera to interview everyone she 
could find from the case. Her subjects 
included police officers, lawyers for the 
defense and the prosecution, a representative 
of the Connecticut Right to Life 
Corporation, plus a number of expert 
witnesses on domestic violence and 
constitutional law. A research team of about 
ten people met weekly in Ondi's and 
Graham's living room to share their findings. 

The researchers found ample evidence of 
the political uproar over the death of Amos' 
fetus. Bonnie was the first person to have 
killed a pregnant woman in the state of-
Connecticut, and state chapters of the Right 
to Life Corporation, the Pro-Life Council, 
and the Catholic Conference seized on the 
case as an opportunity to establish the legal 
status of a fetus as a human being. They 
dubbed the fetus "Baby Boy Amos," and the 
local media followed suit. Superior Court 
Judge Herbert Barall ruled that Connecticut 
general statutes defining murder did not 
apply to viable fetuses-a decision which Bill 
O'Brien, Connecticut Right to Life director, 
refers to in the film as a declaration of "open 
season on the unborn." 

The pro-life lobby and state Republican 
leadership pushed successfully for a hearing 
on "feticide legislation." In the end the 
legislature decided not to recognize a fetus as 
a human being, acting instead on the advice 
of John J. Kelley, chief state's attorney, who 
recommended circumventing the abortion 
issue by simply "enhancing penalties" for 
violent crimes against pregnant women. The 
maximum sentence for manslaughter in 
Connecticut is 20 years, though prisoners 
with good behavior usually serve less than 
half of the term. Women convicted of 
murder (a felony, and therefore not subject 
to parole) frequently receive sentences of 
fewer than 20 years. The legislative changes 
Kelley recommended prompted the 
prosecutor's decision to raise the charge 
against Bonnie from manslaughter to murder 
and the judge's unheard-of sentence of 45 
years. 

"Bonnie suffered so much from negative 
publicity around her trial," Ondi told me. "I 
wanted the film to give her as much honest 
publicity as possible before her appeal is 
heard." While not seeking to exonerate her, 
the film argues persuasively that Bonnie's 
crime was not murder but manslaughter, for 
which she has already served more than 
enough time. The film grants Bonnie a 
retrial in which she is allowed to argue her 
own defense, and the legal system is called to 
the stand for some hard questioning. 

Bonnie's on-camera testimony 
constitutes the backbone of the film's 
narration. Her interview segments are 
interspersed with statements from the 
various experts, character witnesses, and 
officials involved in the case. Ondi compares 
the film's structure to a prism: "I wanted to 
depict the case through a multitude of 
perspectives without any single, overriding 
voice so that the viewer would feel like a 
member of the jury." 

Against a background of prison 
cinderblock, Bonnie describes the 
interrogation immediately following her 
arrest. Police pressured her for seven to eight 
hours to make a statement, she says, and 
denied her requests to call an attorney until 
minutes before her arraignment. In the next 
sequence Yale political science professor 
Rogers Smith, surrounded by books, explains 
that the law requires that all questioning 
cease once a suspect requests an attorney. 
The film cuts to Steve Kumnick, the police 
detective who interrogated Bonnie: "It's an 
adversarial relationship. She's the suspect, 
and I'm interrogating her. I'm not going to 
make her a five-course breakfast." 

Before and throughout her trial, Bonnie 
tells us, she was administered a drug she later 
learned was Thorazine, an anti-depressant 
used for treating psychotics. In the next shot, 
Donald Grayson, a psychiatrist involved in 
the case, says he can't imagine why Bonnie 
was given Thorazine, since she has no history 
of psychosis. But upon reflection, he 
mentions that many of the prisoners he sees 
as patients seem to be under the influence of 
heavy mood-altering drugs. Whatever it was, 
adds Bonnie's daughter Sylvia Green, "it 
made her like a zombie," jeopardizing her 
credibility in the eyes of the jury. 

Throughout the five-day trial, Bonnie 
continues, anti-abortion demonstrators 
picketed the courthouse. The film 
incorporates clips from heavily slanted local 
news coverage of the "Baby Boy Amos" story. 
Bonnie's request to move the trial was 
denied. According to Bonnie, her court-
appointed public defender Dennis O'Toole 
seemed uninterested, even hostile, and asked 
her very few questions. She remembers 
saying to him, "'It's obvious you're not 
interested in defending me. Why don't you 
give up my case?' And from then on he never 
even pretended." 

The court denied Bonnie's request for a 
new defender, a decision Rogers Smith 
confirms violated her right to counsel as 
guaranteed by the Constitution. 

O'Toole refused to be interviewed for the 
film, but trial records and the filmed 
recollections of other lawyers bear out 
Bonnie's claims. The defense attorney failed 
to subpoena any character witnesses to testify 
to Bonnie's ten years of work at the 
Wiremold Company, her service as a union 
shop steward for Local 1040, or her single-
handed support of two children and the 
home she owned in Bloomfield. Ondi 
compensates for O'Toole's negligence by 
interviewing Bonnie's two adult children, her 
neighbors, and a co-worker, among others. 
But by far the strongest defense of her 
character is Bonnie's own gentle intelligence, 
guiding viewers through the film. 

The only witness called by the defense 
was a psychiatrist named Anne Price, who 
had concluded after a single 15-minute 
session that Bonnie suffered from Post-
Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), a 
syndrome afflicting many victims of 
domestic abuse as well as combat veterans. 
One of the symptoms of PTSD, the harried-
looking Price told Ondi, is hyper-vigilance, 
or a tendency to respond in disproportionate 
ways to perceived threats. But when she 
attempted to hand literature about PTSD to 
the judge, she recalls, he dismissed it as 
irrelevant. Connecticut statutes softening 
penalties for battered women did not apply 
to Bonnie, since neither her victim nor her 
assailant was her batterer. 

John Williams, Bonnie's present lawyer, 
criticizes O'Toole's failure to present an 
orchestrated argument about PTSD, a 
relatively unfamiliar term at the time. Cross-
examination quickly revealed that Price had 
not been prepared as an expert witness. The 
defense offered no medical or police records 
as proof of Bonnie's history of abuse, nor did 
O'Toole call Bonnie's children to the stand. 
"If you want to present a Beethoven 
symphony," says Williams, "you don't send 
in some guy to whistle." 

The film makes much of the issue of 
PTSD and the law's treatment of battered 
women. In addition to interviews confirming 
Bonnie's stories of abuse and persecution, 
Ondi included commentary from Evan 
Stark, a legal expert on domestic abuse, and 
government statistics on domestic violence. 
This kind of information and expert 
testimony, Williams told me, is exactly what 
ought to be brought up in the courtroom. 
"Ondi is a brilliant, politically astute artist," 
he says. "She assembled my case for me." 

Perhaps most astonishingly, the defense 
made no mention of the criminal record of 
Hector Freeman, Bonnie's assailant. He had 
been arrested three times for assault, once on 
a police officer. In fact, O'Toole did not 
know that Freeman had a record until he had 
left the stand, nor did he recall him once he 
was informed. 

In order to establish murderous intent, 
the prosecution brought in witnesses who 
claimed to have heard Bonnie arguing with 
Freeman or with Amos in the bar. While the 
accounts conflicted, the state rested its case 
on the testimony of one James Pugh, who 
claimed to have heard Bonnie say to Amos, 
"Bitch, I'm tired of your shit." In the 
probable cause hearing, however, Pugh had 
testified that he had not heard Bonnie say 
anything. The film drives home this 
inconsistency with copies of the transcripts 
of his two testimonies. 

Based on Pugh's testimony, prosecutor 
Thomas asserted that Bonnie's self-defense 
story was a pure fabrication. The shooting, 
he argued, was premeditated. In the end, the 
jury agreed. 

Thomas is one of the film's cast of black 
hats, whose interviews are impressively 
revealing. "Why did they agree to 
interview?" muses Ondi. "The truth was not 
on their side. I think they agreed because 
they were afraid of looking scared. They're 
not bad people. They're just doing their jobs. 
That's the problem: they're just doing their 
jobs." 

When Ondi interviewed Richard 
Emmanuel, Bonnie's public defender in her 
appeal, he cautiously declined to comment 
on the performance of fellow public defender 
O'Toole. "Let me say this," he conceded, 
"undeniably this was a manslaughter case, 
and not a murder case." 

Once in prison, Bonnie slipped 
through every conceivable crack in 
the legal system. She was assigned a 
succession of seven public defenders, none of 
whom managed even to file an appeal for 
her. Bonnie began studying state laws in the 
prison library and was drafting her own 
appeal, when she received a visit from Mary 
Werblin, a private defense lawyer who had 
learned about the case from counselors at 
Niantic. Werblin brought the case to the 
attention of a local philanthropist who 
agreed to donate $10,000 toward the cost of 
hiring a lawyer for Bonnie. 

They hired John Williams, who had cut 
his legal teeth defending the Black Panthers 
in the early 70s and today ranks among the 
most respected defense lawyers in the state. 
His work, which normally costs clients $300 
an hour, has been largely pro bono. Filmed 
in front of an antique American flag, he 
embodies a sense of embattled constitutional 
ideals. His closing remarks voice the moral 
message at the heart of the film: 
"Obviously this is not a just result. The 
test of the ability of our system to do justice 
to Bonnie Foreshaw is, I think, a test of our 
commitment to the concept of justice in 
general. Are we big enough, is our system 
strong enough, to admit this error, attempt 
to rectify it, and go on? We will find out. I 
hope it is, because if it isn't, that doesn't say 
very much that's promising for the rest of us. 
If it can happen to Bonnie Foreshaw, it can 
happen to others, and will." 

Editing of The Nature of the Beast lasted 
well into the fall 1994 semester, and 
negotiations with distributors 
continue. A screening at Yale in October was 
greeted by a large, receptive audience and 
positive reviews. It has since aired on 
Connecticut and Florida public television, 
and an excerpted version is scheduled to run 
on a New York City independent film 
channel in April. A deal is underway to 
distribute the film to law schools and 
women's studies programs around the 
country. 

After finishing the film, Ondi was hired 
to work on Steven Spielberg's Holocaust oral 
history project, Survivors of the Shoah. She 
has moved to Los Angeles, but her 
involvement with Bonnie and her case 
continue. Each woman describes the other as 
"a member of my family." Bonnie has signed 
the rights to her life story over to Ondi. 
Ondi's time in Los Angeles has provided 
her and the film with welcome public 
exposure. Before Bonnie's suit is heard, Ondi





**The Bonnie Story**
**Author: Rosemary Hutzler**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
hopes to reach a wider audience through a 
dramatization of the story, without 
sacrificing artistic or factual integrity. 
Documentary filmmaker Errol Morris, 
whose movie The Thin Blue Line helped get 
an innocent man off death row, has agreed to 
attach his name to the project. The Spielberg 
people expressed interest in making a movie 
about the movie, but Ondi wants to keep the 
focus on Bonnie. At present she and her 
agent are negotiating with ABC and CBS 
over a Movie of the Week, which wn· ~!~ 
reach 6 to 7 million viewers. Queen Lacifah 
and Oprah Winfrey reportedly have their 
eyes on the role of Bonnie. 

Neither Ondi nor Bonnie seems very 
concerned about the relative benefit each of 
them has derived from the film. Both reason 
that the further Ondi goes, the better chance 
she'll have to help Bonnie. Bonnie predicts 
that Ondi will be famous. Says Ondi, "Our 
goals have been aligned from the start. I 
won't stop until she's out." 

Bonnie is optimistic about the film's 
direct impact on her suit. "I don't know what 
they [state prosecutors and police officers) 
thought those interviews were for, but they 
made incriminating statements on camera. 
Every word you say can and will be held 
against you." 

In the eyes of Bonnie and her advocates, 
the courts have already failed every test of 
their fairness to a single woman without 
private representation or access to power. 
The attention and backing she has finally 
received are at once a credit to her own 
perseverance and a grim indictment of what 
really makes the legal system tick. In the 
words of Steve Kurnnick, the Hartford police 
detective who first interrogated Bonnie, ''I'm 
not a mind-reader. If I don't have to do 
something, I may not do it. It's the nature of 
the beast." 

Ondi didn't have to do anything for 
Bonnie, nor did anyone else. But they have. 
Perhaps under their combined pressure, the 
courts will have to do something, too. li1J
Rosemary Hutzler, a junior in Davmport 
Colkge is on the !ta./f ojTN].


**The Struggle for Democracy: Bread and Roses and Modern Times**
**Author: Ben Lumpkin**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

A newspaper prepared New Haven radicals in the art of self-defense. 
0 
ne old brick building still stands on State Street. Next to 
it is a cluttered parking lot and one more abandoned 
structure. After that, where once there srood a row of 
beautiful Victorian houses, there is a long stretch of 
nothing. Everything was bulldozed to make way for a multi-level 
parking lot that never happened. 

The remaining building, on the corner of State and Elm, has 
been more fortunate by far than its fallen comrades. Bagdon's, the of 
four gourmet restaurants on that spot, even attracted the dainty 
nose of a New York Times restaurant reviewer wlien word of its 
culinary delights began wafting through the suburbs. "White brick 
walls, unobtrusive gray carpeting, black chairs, white-napped tables 
(luxuriously spaced) and indirect wall lighting create a handsome 
atmosphere," the reviewer wrote. "The short menu offers several 
popular dishes of New American Cooking, adding to the 
restaurant's style." 

Unbeknownst to the effusive author, this seemingly innocuous 
brick corner building once offered a much more fiery brand of 
"New American Cooking." From 1969 to 1972, before everything 
was covered over with "unobtrusive gray carpeting," it was home to 
the Bread and Roses Coffeehouse. A large black snake wound its 
way across the front window: the "Don't tread on me" symbol of the 
American Revolution. Beside the door, a handwritten sign with the 
words "No Dope Please" hung where the New York Times article, 
placed inside an elegant frame, hangs today. 

"Hearts starve as welL as bodies, 
Give us bread, but give us roses!" 

T
he name Bread and Roses came from a poem about the 
famous seamstress strike of 1912, organized by the ill-fated 
Industrial Workers of the World in Lawrence, Massachusetts. 
In New Haven, Bread and Roses was the official coffeehouse of 
another radical political organization: the American Independent 
Movement (AIM). With two primary objectives-an end to the 
Vietnam war and a more equal distribution of wealth in the United 
States-AIM had been a presence in New Haven since 1966, the 
year it ran Yale professor Bob Cook for Congress on an anti-war 
platform. People affiliated with AIM would congregate at Bread and 
Roses for group discussions, movies, and live music, 
launched in the city, the patrons of Bread and Roses 
suddenly had a lot more to talk about. The J 
coffeehouse became the haunt for the writers 
and readers of New Haven's first and !:-
radical, leftist newspaper: the Modern Times. 
Staffers sat around simple coffeehouse tables, 
discussing the declining quality of public 
education, the shortage of health care, or the 
housing crisis in New Haven. An editorial 
·inside the first issue declared, "In New 
Haven, as elsewhere, people are moving to I 
change the way they work and learn. Conditiom 
..... lrlll~ .... 
on the job, in the schools, in 
neighborhoods and cities are 
changing as people demand a new 
and free society." Over the next 
five years, Modern Times would 
herald this new and free society. 

I
n the years following the 
disastrous Tet offensive in 
January, 1968, people in 
New Haven and elsewhere 
grew more radical. The grisly 
details of the battle led many 
Americans to conclude that the 
U.S. was not, in fact, winning the 
war, and perhaps never would. Rick Wolff 
(GRD '69), who taught economics at Yale 
during the winrer of '68, recalls the day his 
students learned of the shocking American losses. 
"It was as if a blizzard had blown through their 
minds," he said. As one of the few at Yale who had 
spoken out against the war, Wolff was bombarded by 
questions. Students wanted to know exactly what was going 
on. 

The Modem Times came onto the scene as the voice of 
people from all walks of life who felt they had been betrayed 
by the system. In a one-parry Democratic city whose two 
newspapers were run by the same conservative 
all with political undertones. 
On May 1, 1970, when a new publication was 
family, the new voice was a startling one. A 
genuine grass-roots effort, the paper drew 



**The Modern Times: A New Haven Newspaper**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
volunteers from neighborhoods through~ut 
the city. Once recruited, volunteers were 
~ent back to their respective neighborhoods 
with a profoundly simple message: "Here is 
the Modern Times. It is your vehicle." 
Joelle Fishman, one of the Modern 
Times' fjrst editors, remembers that she 
rarely wrote for the paper herself, even 
though she was one of the few involved 
with any journalistic experience. Instead, 
Fishman spent most of her time trying to 
get as many people in the community as 
possible to tell their stories in their own 
words. 

A strident article on the last page of the 
Modern Times' first issue tells the story of 
the .paper rather well. The article lauds 
karate as a method of self-defense. "Karate 
is unquestionably the most effective form of 
self-defense simply because it developed 
from an oppressed group of people and has 
remained flexible from its formation," it 
begins. Similarly, the Modern Times aimed 
to radicalize an oppressed group of people 
and, at the beginning, it was anything if not 
flexible. All the newspaper had to .do was 
follow the article's well-learned set of karate 
ground rules. 
Avoid physical viounce as much as possibu 
maintaining an attitude of self-confidence 
(not cockiness). Note: A lit& untkrstanding 
and show of sincere concern for your 
adversary's situation can often avert disaster. 

en the first issue of the 
ewspaper hit the streets, disaster 
0 
threatened New Haven. On May 
~ I, 1970, demonstrators flooded the New 
i' Haven Green, calling for the release of 
~ ~ Black Panther Party chairman, Bobby Seale, 
" then on trial in New Haven for the 1969 
~ 
:? murder of a fellow Panther. Nervously 
~ i- expecting as many as 35,000 unruly 
~ .3 demonstrators from all over the country, the 
: 
~ establishment mobilized its police forces. 
: i- Police cordoned off the Chapel Square 
~ 2 Mall. At the Naval Air Station in Quonset, 
' f Rhode Island, 4,000 marines equipped with 
.. 
riot gear fLied off military planes, ready to 
roll into the Elm City at a moment's notice. 

And just as the establishment mobilized 
! " 
its policemen, the Modern Times tried to 
incite New Haven residents against the 
system. Its articles challenged official 
propaganda touting strong schools, clean 
air, adequate and comfortable housing, and 
other 
miracles 
of New 
Haven's 
"redevelopment." 

But the Modern Times was careful not to 
come across as too aggressive. AIM, whose 
members made up the core of the paper's 
staff, dreamed of becoming a paper for the 
working man, but it also wanted society at 
large tQ_ take it seriously. It steered clear of 
any connection with-communism, which 
might have caused people to condemn it 
automatically. "We chose the bland name of 
American 
Independent 
Movement 
intentionally," Wolff said. A more neutral 
name would make for a more inclusive 
group. 

If physical violence is inevitable, never 
jMik Fishman, toJ4y th~ Chairmlln ofth~ Conn«ticut 
Communist Party, was OnL of tk fim ~ditors of tk 
Modem Times. 

underestimate your assailant. An opening 
attack can be blocked, but for the 
inexperienced, side or back stepping to avoid 
the attack is most advisable. 

t the core of the Modern Times was a 
group of driven political activists. 
The paper aimed to create a "new 
awareness" in the city: to help people 
reclaim control of their lives from large 
corporations and an arrogant and aloof city 
government. "There is no place else," the 
paper declared, "where the hunger, bad 
housing and education, lack of health care, 
[and] police harassment that people live 
with is told by them." 

The establishment in New Haven, 
however, was deeply entrenched. New 
Haven's legendary mayor, Richard Lee 
(Honorary MA '61), on the campaign trail 
in 1951, said that New Haven's inability to 
cope with social problems resulted from the 
fact that: "There was no unity of 
approach." He would be the man to create 
that unity. In 1953 he was elected to the 
first of an unprecedented eight terms in 
office. From 1955 to 1967 he won 
reelection with an average plurality of 
15,000 votes, or roughly one-third of New 
Haven's voting population. And all this at a 
time when voter turnout in the city was 
nearly 70 percent. 

It was, in effect, the death of the two 
party system in New Haven. By 1965, all 
33 New Haven aldermen were Democrats. 
With federal dollars streaming in at a per 
capita rate second only ro Philadelphia, 
Mayor Lee and his all-star cast of city 
planners won national fame for their 
"Model City." The Board of Aldermen itself 
appeared to be rather like an anachronistic 
remnant from a more democratic era, 
enacting Lee's bloated budgets with no 
questions asked. It was around this time, 
recalls former New Haven mayor Frank 
Logue (BK '48, LAW '5 1), that the 
Democratic Party chairman Arthur Barbieri 
(UGRD '38) began to boast that he could 
take people off the street and get them 
elected mayor. Mayor Lee, it appeared, had 
achieved his "unity of approach" in grand 
fashion. 


Lee gave voice to widely held sentiment 
when he declared in 196 5, after the 
completion of the Wooster Square project, 
"The transformation of New Haven into a 
modern American city is well underway, 
and its successful completion is certain." 

The city had amassed upwards of $30 
million in federal redevelopment grants by 
this time. How could it go wrong? 

Critical voices somehow failed to ftlter 
through the cocktail and dinner 
engagements Barbieri arranged for 
aldermen prior to redevelopment meetings. 
Yale's prophets of modernity, in league with 
high-powered city planners, preached the 
doctrine of redevelopment while New 
Haveners listened and watched in awe. The 
Democratic Party began to function, in 
Logue's words, as "a closed enterprise," out 
of touch with many of the city's 
communities. Thus, when riots erupted in 
the city's black neighborhoods in August of 
1967, it is little wonder that Mayor Lee had 
nothing to say to a reporter other than, "I 
seriously thought it wouldn't happen." 

After the riots, anxiety mounted in the 
city as to whether this kind of leadership 
would be enough to reverse New Haven's


APRIL 14> 1995 

troubling trends. It was clearly time for a 
new public voice to be heard. There could 
be no more side-stepping the city 
government's misguided initiatives. Even 
the staunchly conservative Rt-gisttr-which 
according to Modnn Timts publisher Matt 
Borenstein had a policy of never printing 
pictures of striking laborers to avoid 
indirectly aiding their cause-ran an article 
in which local black leaders criticized the 
Lee administration. "I am not convinced 
that 'more of the same' is the answer," 
cautioned executive" director of the Urban 
League of Greater New Haven, Robert 
Boles. 

Still, it wasn't until three years later, 
with the publication of the Motkrn Timts, 
that the dark side to New Haven's 
"Progress" began to be revealed in a 
systematic outpouring of unedited, 
unadulterated anger. And even then, for 
every inexperienced volunteer that the 
paper attracted, the Democratic machine 
had a slew of loyal followers on the 
patronage dole. 

In clost quarttrs, twisting or turning tht 
body llS a whok unit is tht btst way to frtt 
yourst/f from grasp. 

ccording to Wolff, the Modnn Timts 
never could have come into being 
:without the leadership AIM 
provided. Still, at the same time that AIM 
was lifting off the ground, other groups 
were forming in New Haven to voice 
frustration about a wide range of issues. As 
awareness grew about the relationship 
between these events, AIM members came 
together with members of the other groups 
in an agreement to provide mutual support. 
It was the synergy created by this union that 
would give the Modtrn Timts such a 
powerful, well-informed voice. 

The paper's range of coverage was 
nothing less than astonishing. Yes, there 
were some pedantic, structural type stories, 
such as the one in which Rick Wolff 
attempted to persuade the reader that the 
city's debt payment should be construed as 
welfare for the rich because banks and 
corporations were not required to pay 
income taxes on any interest they earned 
from loans to the city. But overall, the 
paper's headlines read like graffiti taken 
from walls all over the city. 

When he heard of several instances 
where the police had picked up kids with 
litde or no justification, Reverend Larry 
Reilly wrote an article in the Modnn Timts 
alleging polke harassment. The piece 
concluded with a bitterly sarcastic, if 
ungrammatical, warning to the city's youth 
(particularly those living in Fair Haven, 
who he felt were victimized more than the 
rest for their race): "In short, watch out, 
kids, no matter where you live and stay 
home (after all there is no decent recreation 
in Fair Haven for you), and you will be 
arrested for even talking quietly on a street 
corner. , 

An article entitled "People Create New 
Parks" told of a rally held by the People's 
Associarion of Williams Street to complain 
that some one hundred children in their 
neighborhood had no nearby playground. 
In a photo stretched beside the article 
mothers and children were shown having a 
picnic in an overgrown lot near an overpass. 
The lot was surrounded by a chain link 
23 

fence with a sign that read: "State property. 
No trespassing." 

On the paper's Spanish page, included 
in each issue for the benefit of the city's 
growing Latino population, an employee of 
the Yale University Dining Halls told of the 
racism she had witnessed a manager display 
towards an African-American employee. 
The article, entitled "Mi Experiencia del 
Sistema del Yale," concludes with a 
statement about the attitude of Yale towards 
the city which any reader of the Mod~rn 
Times would come ro hear over and over. 
"These same bosses of the university treat 
the whole community with disdain," wrote 
the employee. 

Regardless of your tactic you must 
maintain strong footing and balance to prottct 
youruif properly; b~ able to move; and to 
provide strength for your counterattack. 

he Modem Tim~s lived up to its vow 
to counteract the prejudiced 
information disseminated by the 
establishment. For example, New Haven 
police may have nodded agreement with the 
alarmist assessment of FBI direcror J. Edgar 
Hoover that: "The Black Panther Party 
without question represents the greatest 
threat to the internal security of the 
country." But the Modern Tim~s told 
another story. 

Countering the perception of the Black 
Panthers as nothing more than a belligerent, 
militaristic organization, the staff told of 
free clinics and breakfast programs for the 
kids of working mothers, opened and 
operated by Black Panthers in New Haven. 
Emphasizing class distinctions over those of 
race, the newspaper praised the Panther 
rallying cry of "All power to the people" as a 
slogan for all working men. 

When the city began leveling, one by 
one, several hotels which had served as 
housing for people with modest incomes, it 
said it was doing a good thing by removing 
the old to make way for the new. But the 
Modern Times-by sending its reporters 
into the dusty hallways of the hotels- . 
discovered another, radically different view. 
Under the headline, "City Scatters 
Strand Community," the paper told of a 
unique community of elderly New 
Haveners who had lived happily for 
upwards of 10 years in the Strand Hotel 
.until .they were evicted by the city. A photo 
captured 
the 
residents 
lol}nging 
comfortably in the hotel's lobby. Many were 
afraid of the prospect of'moving into an 
apartment full of strangers. "I think the city 
delights in breaking up communities," said 
Harry Cornwall, a resident of the hotel for 
15 years. "They have no feeling for the 
people." 

Have a target in mind when you attack. If 
you strike aimlessly. you can hit someone many 
times without having any immediate effict; 
one carefully placed blow can stop an 
opponent. 

here was one issue which the Modern 
Times addressed more than the rest, 
and that was the crucial question of 
whether the city's redevelopment schemes 
were saving the city or contributing to its 
decline. It was becoming apparent by 1970 
that Mayor Lee's legendary redevelopment 
program had in fact been just that-legend. 
Between 1950 and 1970, 10,000 housing 
units were bulldozed and 7,819 households 
relocated in the hopes that something more 
sightly and, above aJI, with pockets deep 
enough for the payment of property taxes, 
would spring up in their place. In most 
cases, nothing ever did. 

There is some irony in the fact that the



**Title: New Haven's Redevelopment: A Socialist Perspective**
**Author: Ben Lumpkin**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Modern Tim~s. a socialist publication, 
figured so prominently in a movement 
against what was, at some levels, a 
government-planned economy in New 
Haven. As a former lawyer for the New 
Haven Redevelopment Agency James 
Whitney (SM '64, LAW '68, M.ARC '68) 
recalled, "Redevelopment was for poor 
cities, not for poor people." lr aimed to 
rebuild the city center to establish a firm tax 
base which would be used to aid poor 
people. "Having a commercial core is part 
of what makes a city a city," Whitney 
explained, "especially in a state which is so 
. dependent on property taxes and which 
does such a bad job of distributing them." 


Unfortunately, the development 
agency's unspoken motto ran something 
like: demolish first, think later. A cartoon in 
the Modern Timn depicted two women 
stand ing in front of a plaque. In the 
background stood a sprawling, modern 
building with walls like those of an Amtrak 
train. One woman read the plaque to the 
other. "It says Pomburg, settled in 1530, 
survived the Indian massacres, the 
Revolutionary War, War of 1812, Civil 
War, wiped out by shopping center 
development in 1968." 


The Motkrn Tim~· opposition would be 
instrumental in stopping several unpopular 
plans, including one to build a ring road 
around Yale, cuning it off from the rest of 
the city. According to the Mod~rn Times, 
the plan, zealously backed by Yale, would 
have d isplaced 423 fami lies and 201 
businesses. 

Do not oppou superior power with power. 
Sidestep or harmonize your body to take 
advantage of th~ opponmt's w~ight and 
strmgth. (This will usually require some 
background lmowkdge ofstlf defonse). 

n the 70s, Wolff said, "Centrifugal force 
began to pull things apart. The women 
wanted to go their way; the blacks 
wanted to go their way." People involved 
with the Modern Times were increasingly 
divided along the lines of the issues rhey 
considered most important. To reAect this, 
many wanted the paper divided into nvo·
page sections according to subject: one 
section for feminist issues, one for 
environmental issues, and so forth. The 
AIM people felt that this approach would 
make the paper appear to be too much of a 
grab bag of random issues. It wanted to 
maintain a definite identity for the paper, 
revolving around their central project of 
identifying who had wealth and whether it 
was being used to benefit the community. 
Finally, there was a standoff. 

Members of AIM entered into a 
passionate argument with feminists and 
their sympathizers over whether rhe Modern 
Times should run a front page story about 
abortion (this was before Roe v. Wade). AIM 
partisans argued rhar such a story would 
risk alienating the working class, a great 
many of whom were Roman Catholic, and 
thus compromise the paper's position as a 
socialist publication. Virginia BlaisdeU, one 
of the feminists, remembers trying in vain 
to convince AIM men that the issue was not 
perhaps as threatening and divisive as they 
supposed. She didn't think the paper had 
nearly the readership among New Haven's 
working class that AIM liked to imagine. 

Bur AIM would have none of it. In the end, 
it decided to create an editorial policy 
(before, there had been few limits to what 
the paper would print) which basically 
stipulated that AIM would make all 
editorial decisions. Blaisdell and 28 others 
walked out. 

Henry Lowendorf, an editor of the 
Modern Times, was one of those who left. 
He thought the "collective process" that 
characterized the production of the Modern 
Times was one of the paper's g reatesc 
strengths, and he became quickly 
disenchanted when AIM members began 
making unilateral decisions. 

Wolff readily admitted that the Modern 
Times "paid a heavy price for AIM's 
decision." The paper began to weaken 
visibly in the next several years, first falling 
from 16 pages down to eight, and finally 
beginning to publish less frequently. Bur 
Wolff attributed the demise of rhe 
newspaper to larger forces as well. "When 
Nixon feU out of the war, the steam went 
out of the American left movement," he 
said. "Half the people you used to be able 
to count on to help with the Modern Times 
just faded away." 

Above all, use discretion to counter-attack 
effectively. Use the degree of punishment 
befitting the situation. (Avoid brutality.} 

n the days of the Modern Times, radical-
minded people were able to avoid 
brutality. The sint.nion was not yet 
desperate. In the 70s, Wolff confessed, even 
the radicals themselves thought New Haven 
could be successfully redeveloped, if only 
the city's leaders became more socially 
aware, or socially realistic. 

It is hard to feel that way in 1995. As 
Wolff, now an economics professor at the 
University of Massachussetts drives through 
Fair H aven, once New Haven's liveliest 
neighborhood, he stares at the gaping, black 
windows of burnt-out houses, at yard after 
yard strewn with unbelievable amounts of 
garbage. In his mind he goes over his old 
theories. If only the city had invested more 
in irs people, in educating them and giving 
them a healthy environment in which to 
live in. Then maybe they could have 
"redeveloped" their own city. 

Wolff shakes his head. Today, he thinks, 
not even the Modern Times could bridge the 
communication gap between the rich and 
poor. He continues his demoralizing tour of 
the once great working-class neighborhoods 
of rhe city. In Newhallville, he drives past 
Science Park, the project that Mayor John 
DeStefano, Jr. hopes will resuscitate New 
Haven's economy in the 1990s. Science 
Park sits in the middle of the blighted 
neighborhood, surrounded by a high steel 
fence. There are guard stations at the gates 
where anyone wishing to enter must present 
identification. It is like a military outpost in 
enemy territory. 

The once radical Rick Wolff shivers to 
imagine the next counter attack. 


**Title: The New Haven I Have a Dream Program**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the foundation and is now responsible for 
shepherding 56 fourth-graders through nine 
years of school. In his spare time, he studies 
for the bar exam-"just in case one of my 
friends kills someone and I need to defend 
him." 


n the East Rock cafeteria, law school 
seems a lifetime away. Ten minutes into 
today's session, the activity centers 
around three focal points: the cups of fruit 
punch; the boxes of Cheez-Its; and 
Lieberman, who stands at the front of the 
cafeteria, joking around with the students, 
and answering the questions of adult 
volunteers. "Oh my Lord," whispers a 
Quinnipiac College volunteer standing on 
my left, stunned by the volume of energy in 
the room. A Dreamer cartwheels across the 
auditorium floor. Others wander around the 
cafeteria in various permutations of dark-
green plaid school uniforms. A few 
Dreamers sit at the benches, working with 
tutors, talking to friends, scraping the last of 
the orange powder from the bottom of a box 
of Cheez-Its. 


At 3 p.m. I sit on the back wall of•East 
Rock's sunken auditorium, the cafeteria 
spread out before me. In front of me an 
adult mentor introduces herself to a student. 
"Hi. How are you? My name is Ruth. I'm 
going to be helping you with your 
homework." The Dreamer doesn't look 
enthused; but when I ask her if I can 
interview her, Astrid, age ten, flashes a shy 
smile and then takes a seat next to me. 
Her friends Leyda and Staci, also age 
ten, soon join us. Leyda, accompanied by 
nods from the other Dreamers, tells me how 
her parents had reacted to the news. "Mine 
were really happy. They hugged me and 
kissed me. They said, 'We only have to pay 
for o'ne now'-my brother's." The other two 
girls' descriptions echo Leyda's. Still, Staci 
points out, it isn't always easy being a 
Dreamer. "Now they expect us to write big 
compositions and essays. We get harder 
work, we're working hard to make this man 
narn'ed Mr. Highsmith ·and our teacher and 
our parents and many other people proud of 
us. " 


Mr. Highsmith is Carlton Highsmith, a 
businessman from Hamden, and a member 
of New Haven I Have a Dream's board of 
directors. Highsmith acts as the sponsor 
figure for East Rock's Dreamers; besides his 
financial contribution to the project, he 
serves as a role model. "I know that a 
program like I Have a Dream works because 
I was the product of [a similar] program," 
Highsmith tells me over the phone a few 
days after my visit to East Rock. Answering 
questions in warm, measured tones, he 
sounds quite satisfied with where he is now, 
which is a long way from where he began. 
Highsmith grew up in a poor rural town in 
eastern North Carolina. After finishing 
second in his high school class, he applied to 
college. The University of Wisconsin denied 
him admission at first; a week later, 
Highsmith received a second letter, 
accepting him under the newly instituted 
"Special Program of Tutorial and Financial 
Assistance." Highsmith thrived at Wisconsin 
and then went to work in "corporate 
America." Today he owns Specialized 
Packaging International and is putting his 
own two children through college. 


Highsmith wants to prove to the 
Dreamers that they, too, can achieve success. 
In talking with the fourth-graders, though, 
he realizes their concepts of success vary 
wildly. "A lot of them say [success is] having 
a lot of money. Others say it's doing 
something that you enjoy doing, or being 
respected by other people, or being famous." 
He continued, "One little girl told me, 
'success is when people love you."' If any 
doubt about his own definition of success 
remains, he added, "The best part is seeing 
how really sharp they are and how, in fact, 
there's so much inside of them that's 
bursting to come out. I'tn looking forward 
to seeing 56 fourth-graders grow and 
develop like my own children." 


B 
ack in the cafeteria, the Dreamers give 
Highsmith rave reviews. "He's nice to 
us," Staci responds emphatically. 
Leyda, nodding her head, adds, "He's nice, 
and we met his wife. I think he's rich to do 
all this, and kind." (Later that week, 
Highsmith laughs when he hears this and 
responds, "I told them, 'I'm not rich; I work 
for a living'"). Astrid chimes in, "We go out 
for our birthdays with Mr. Highsmith. He 
gives us birthday cards and takes us out for 
lunch." She mentions a big meeting held for 
all the Dreamers and their families, in which 
a classmate, Arturo, gave a speech. I ask her 


--- Page 29 ---

to point him out to me, and obligingly she 
screams his name across the cafeteria. A 
dark-haired boy darts towards us from out 
of the crowd. I thank the girls for their time 
and watch them disappear into a swirl of 
chatter on my right. 


Arturo, perched on the rim of the 
auditorium wall, only grudgingly admits, 
first, to being Arturo, then to being the 
Arturo who gave a speech at the big 
meeting: He tells me the speech was about 
kids and things they want to be. "I want to 
be a fisherman," Arturo tells me. Two more 
heads pop up. Introductions are made. 
Pedro and Francisco are told they have 
walked into a magazine interview. Pedro is 
game. "Fishermen don't get paid a lot," he 
informs Arturo. Arturo, though, remains 
undaunted. "They do get paid a lot when 
they get fish to the flea market." Pedro, 
satisfied by this, turns the spotlight on 
himself. "I think that a lawyer and an 
architect get paid a lot. Right now, I want to 
be a lawyer, but maybe I want to be 
something else." Then, after a moment of 
contemplation, "A judge makes a lot more 
than a lawyer and an architect." 


M
irations aside, Pedro and his 
assmates do not have an easy road 
ead of them. The group as a whole 
is, according to Lieberman, "very low 
academically." Only four students fulfill 
expectations for their grade level, and none 
exceed them. Many started the year with 
their reading or math skills at only a second 
grade level. Barbara Guarniere, a fourth-
grade teacher at East Rock, explains, "At this 
point, we are just trying to meet student 
needs on an individual basis. You have to 
remember," she add, "that the program 
began last October and that some of the 
tutors only started in January." 


Still, Lieberman says that progress is 
already visible. "Looking at the attendance 
lists," he says, "there are fewer fourth graders 
absent than before the program started." I 
Have a Dream backs up its financial 
guarantee with a program designed to keep 
students attending, and focused on, school: 
the enrichment program features activities 
such as dance classes, crafts, and ta~ kwon 
APIUL 14> 1995 
dtJ; "inner city outings," in which students 
go on day hikes in the country, led by the 
Sierra Club; and the after-school program. 
Volunteer tutors from the New H aven 
community work one-on-one with students 
on their homework. Participants in 
Americorps, a federally funded program that 
provides educational stipends in exchange 
for community engagements, work with 
groups of five to six Dreamers on basic 
reading and math skills. 


Staci has reappeared, with a suggestion: 
"Talk to Shatara. She's really nice." She drags 
along a tall girl with a wide-cheeked smile. 
Shatara proceeds to give rave reviews, in the 
way only a fourth-grader can, for everything 
from the principal and vice-principal ("very 
nice") to her teacher ("very nice"), to the 
school ("a very nice place to go"). 


Nearly 30 minutes have passed in the 
after-school session, and only a few students 
remain at the blue tables. The punch ran 
out ten minutes ago. A small girl, still in her 
green plaid uniform, sits serenely at the end 
of one of the closer tables. The girl's name is 
Ashley. I ask her how she spells it, and her 
sister, a kindergartener with the same saucer.. 
eyes, spells along with "her. "The program 
hasn't really changed my life," Ashley reveals 
to me, as her sister stands by loyally. "I'm 
still working hard, I do my homework, still 
have chores at home." In contrast to the 
other students, she appears pretty calm. "I 
don't get excited very much," she admits. 
Then, "But I'm happy because I get to go to 


**Title: I Have a Dream**
**Author: Danit! &ikr**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Prodded by the woman from Head 
Start, parents open up, complaining about 
not having enough time for themselves, 
watching bills pile up, taking care of their 
kids. A stack of xeroxes circulates: "A Stress-
Level Checklist;" "All Stressed Our? Ten 
Tips for De-stressing Your Life;" a poem 
called ''I'd Pick More Daisies," written by an 
87 year-old woman from Louisville, 
Kentucky. The parents leave the circle of 
chairs and Marcia Jones, mother of fourth-
grader Patrick, remarks, "I wish the program 
had come into action earlier, so that other 
families could have had this opportunity." 
Perhaps Jones' wish will come true. I 
Have a Dream's goal is to raise enough 
money to sponsor a second class of 
Dreamers. Still, Jones is right-the program 
lavishes such extraordinary opportunity on 
such: a tiny percentage of children. Shirley 
Hayes, Shatara's grandmother, agrees, and 
then adds, "You hate to sound selfish, but 
I'm glad that it was this class that was 
picked. I think every patent would feel that 
way." 

In the schools where I Have a Dream 
programs are set up, ordinarily 50 percent of 
each entering freshman class will graduate; 
but an I Have a Dream class boasts an 85 to 
90 percent graduation race. What about the 
East Rock Dreamers? "It's hard to predict 
that all 56 will make it," says Lieberman. 
"The question is, will they have the ability 
to go, and will they want to go when the 
time comes? Not all kids are college-
bound-that's why we say college or 
vocational school tuition. At least they have 
the opportunity. If nothing else, they'll get 
more out of high school and elementary 
school." He pauses. "There is a chance that 
all 56 will go. I'm here to help give these 
opportunities and to give another stable 
force in their lives." 


**Title: In Pursuit of an Americanist Dream**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

on March 29, a group of Yale faculty and graduate 
students, mainly from the English department, 
American studies and African-American studies 
programs, gathered at the Whitney Humanities Center 
for the first Americanist colloquium at Yale. The question that this 
colloquium attempted to address was, "What's an Americanist 
~nyway?" Although posed somewhat flippantly, the query is 
essentially a pretext for convening a gathering of scholars who 
study and theorize about American literature-if only they could 
come to a consensus that that is indeed what an Americanist is. 
Scholars in many departments focus on American topics, but 
debate in the English department is at times especially volatile. 
Although the colloquium initiated discussion, few of its panel 
participants-Richard Brodhead (BR '68, GRD '72), Dean of Yale 
College and English professor; English professors Thomas · 
Whitaker (GRD '53), Vera Kutzinski (GRD '85), Katherine Rowe; 
and American studies professor Michael Denning (GRD '84)-
would commit to a definition of an Americanist. At times, there 
. seemed to be outright discomfort with the idea of delineating 
precisely what lies behind self-identification as an Americanist. 
Rowe suggested, "To be an Americanist is to read American 
literature, to look at American art, to talk about American film. For 
me, (to be] an Americanist is also to be a 'comparatist."' She 
commented that to be a "comparatist" is to look across historical 
periods, across the Atlantic, and across northern and southern 
borders to Canada, Mexico, and South America. 

Although Rowe gave a clear definition of an Americanist, the 
rest of the panel focused more on what it means to be a literary 
scholar than on what it means to study specifically American 
literature and culture. The conversation eventually led to a 
discussion of the differences between interdisciplinary studies at 
Yale and more traditional approaches to literature. This turn was 
not unexpected, since Americanists-~d we will call them that for 
lack of a better word-have been moving towards more 
interdisciplinary approaches to literature. 

American studies, however, has its origins in a drastically 
different critical location. It emerged as a post-WWII program and 
began as a means of exploring what was once known as "American 
Exceptionalism." This school of thought relied on 
a specific canon approached from an intertextual 
perspective. A critic would line up a few works of 
literature, see what was similar between them, and explain their 
distinctive "Americanness" through these similarities. This 
methodology principally stayed within the novel, poem, or short 
story being read, quite often producing brilliant and lucid insight 
into the aesthetics and form of a text. A drawback to this analysis 
was that the historical and cultural context that may have 
contributed to the text's formation were often disregarded. 

At the colloquium Brodhead noted that today this 
methodology would be viewed by many as "ill-considered rubbish" 
because it was ahistorical and ignored the social, economic, and 
political circumstances of the time. Today a literary critic would be 
expected to examine not only a canonical short story, but the 
newspaper in which it was published, the other fiction published 
along with it, and the political climate of the nation at that 
particular historical moment. American studies has grown 
increasingly interdisciplinary since its birth nearly 50 years ago. 
Kutzinski commented that this interdisciplinary perspective 
characterizes Americanist scholarship at Yale. Indeed, many of the 
Americanists who work in the English department analyze 
literature and other forms of artistic expression under the 
theoretical rubric currently called "cultural studies" in the academic 
realm. 

Not everyone has been using this framework. Describing 
himself as "old-fashioned," Whitaker explained his discomfort with 
cultural studies because he feels it represents a form of academic 
ideology that relies perhaps too heavily on theories of gender, race, 
sexuality, and class. He does not think of a novel as an object 
produced by its cultural context, but rather as a piece of art 
produced by an author. Yet some argue that cultural studies does 
not kill off the author. Instead, it analyzes not only what occurs 
within the text, but also what occurs without. Whitaker says his 
position is more closely related to formalism, a school of thought 
that examines the text independent of historical context. 

In contrast, Denning emphasized the absolute importance of a 
theoretical argument that makes a book of criticism relevant to 
several disciplines. In other words, he argued that the 
underpinnings of an article about late twentieth century Cuban 
race relations can spark the interest of a nineteenth century literary 
critic. 

The tension emerging between those who study 
literature from an interdisciplinary viewpoint and 
those with a more formal approach is probably more pervasive than 
some faculty and students are willing to admit. Although no one 
seems to think that interdisciplinary studies are under attack, 
Kutzinski commented, "Americanists who are in the English 
department are feeling a little marginalized." Furthermore, some 
American studies graduate students, especially those who study 
literature, feel that their methodology is considered especially 
strange. 

Debating definitions at length is itself a strange game. 
Essentially it misses the point. However this professorial assembly 
may choose to define Americanist-and whether they appropriate 
that label for themselves-what Yale students will come to know 
about America depends on the books put into the curriculum and 
the faculty members approved to teach them. But as the English 
department loses more of its American literature scholars faster 
than it can replace them, there are simply fewer courses being 
taught at both undergraduate and graduate levels in the field of 
American literature. R.W.B. Lewis (Honorary MA '60), perhaps 
one of the most eminent scholars on Edith Wharton and her work, 
recently retired from the English department. Brodhead, who 
teaches the popular lecture course on nineteenth-century American 
literature, became dean of Yale College in 1993. Hazel Carby has 
turned her critical eye away from literature and directed it towards 
the growing field of cultural studies. She also recently resigned 
from the English department, though she still maintains her 
tenured positions in American and African-American studies. 
Additionally, hiring more junior faculty to fill these spaces will not 
bridge the gap left by retirements and resignations. Junior faculty 
rarely teach at the graduate level, and thus their potential to 
mentor graduate students is limited. 

Repetition across syllabi is one reason that some Yale students 
perceive that there are not enough innovative courses on American



**Title: The New Intellectuals**
**Author: Joel Burgin**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
literature. Professors appear to be 
institutionalizing a new canon of texts, 
once widely unread, that is debunking an 
older, more ethnocentric list of books. For 
example, Toni Morrison's Beloved and Zora 
Neale Hurston's Their Eyes Were Watching 
God repeatedly appear, as do Harriet 
Jacobs' Incidents in the Lifo of a Slave GirL 
and Frederick Douglass' well-known 
autobiographical narrative. According to 
Julia Ehrhardt (GRD '97), an American 
studies graduate student, although 
departments tend to be pretty loose about 
what constitutes literature, she believes that 
"we need to explore other books." Yet she 
also emphasizes chat there is a renewed and 
growing excitement for American literature 
in the academy. She hopes that this interest 
will attract scholars who study late 
twentieth-century fiction and lesbian and 
gay writing to Yale. 

But subjects like "gay literature" are 
more 
likely 
to 
appear 
in 
the 
interdisciplinary programs than in the 
English department. David Roman's 
seminars, for instance, on "The Literature 
of AIDS" and "Lesbian and Gay Theater 
and Performance" are women's studies 
course offerings and are not cross-listed. 
Ehrhardt argues that co encourage 
textual diversity at both the undergraduate 
and graduate levels, more graduate students 
should be allowed co reach seminars. Emily 
Bernard (GRD '96), another American 
"·At.Jantic Monthly 
THE NEW INTELLECTUALS 
lletuly 
.......... _ 
... w.H 
u. .. es·.-. 
loldomols"' 
..... ~··· 
t•u*<~'-. 
SMWy 
....,. .. ""'L 
AMO.(r• 
..... 
34 
studies graduate student, taught an 
extremely successful course entitled "The 
Black Aesthetic" last semester. More 
courses like Bernard's would be significant, 
Ehrhardt says, because graduate students 
are always "uncovering new texts to be 
read." In her own dissertation, for instance, 
she is "trying to fulfill her own excitement 
about American literature" by exploring the 
"social, economic, and personal reasons 
why we don't know the names" of five 
women writers-Grace King, Gertrude 
Atherton, Zona Gale, Dorothy Canfield 
Fisher, and Josephine Herbst-who were 
popular in their time, but whose works are 
not in print today. She hopes that the 
Americanist colloquium will help make all 
kinds of American literature a powerful 
presence once again for more faculty, 
graduate studen.ts, and eventually 
undergraduates. If the colloquium is here 
to stay, she argues, then it must also 
intensify interdepartmental understanding 
of different types of methodologies. 

This interdepartmental perspective will 
enable previously unacquainted professors 
and students to meet. Except during the 
periods when New Criticism and 
Deconstruction (see TN], October 14, 
1994) dominated literary theory at Yale, 
the English department has always been 
somewhat dispersed. Bryan Wolf (GRD 
'77), director of graduate studies for 
American studies and professor of English, 
calls this dispersion a specifically "Yale 
phenomenon." He describes Yale as an 
isolating place where scholars prefer to 
work in the privacy of their computer 
rooms, though the junior faculty has always 
been fairly communicative with each other. 
The Americanist colloquium, however, 
represents one group's attempt to resist the 
propensity not to interchange ideas. 
Wolf suggests that literary scholarship 
at 
Yale 
is 
unified 
a 
shared 
acknowledgment of the "importance of the 
text as an object for close reading." 
Although his emphasis sounds closer to 
formalism, Wolf explains that he is actually 
an interdisciplinary scholar. Although he 
teaches classes in the English department, 
he devotes about half of his rime to history 
or. art, which he turned to many years ago 
"by instinct" and because it was a "wide 
open field." He feels char "Art meets 
literature in a place chat doesn't need to be 
specifically lirerary ... [l] think of literature 
as a field that is simply not autonomous. 
Literature is part of a larger cultural field 
that deals with language, and that's where 
art meets literature." He concludes by 
commenting that "disc.s:mrse produces ways 
of seeing," which is the subject of his 
recent book about modernity and 
seventeenth-century Dutch art. However, 
his focus is usually upon nineteenth-
century 
art 
and 
non-mainstream 
contemporary art, particularly what is 
being 
produced 
Chicano 
community. Living up to Rowe's call for 
cross-period and cross-Atlantic Americanist 
scholarship, the attention Wolf pays to 
dive·rse cultures also reflects the emergence 
of postcolonial theory in academia today. 
Wolf describes postcolonialism as a way of 
"breaking out of traditional national 
categories." Wolf, however, is another 
example of an interdisciplinary Americanist 
Yale will be losing, at least for a year. While 
on sabbatical for the academic year of 
1995-1996, Wolf will be teaching an art 
history class at Stanford. 

Wolf is not the only prominent 
Americanist Yale will miss next year. 
Controversial hiring decisions within the 
past year point to some of the particular 
difficulties faced by black intellectuals. 
After intense recruiting, Yale failed to add 
two prominent black feminist intellectuals 
to its permanent faculty-Princeton's 
distinguished historian Nell Painter and 
UCLA's literary and film scholar Valerie 
Smith. University of London's Paul Gilroy 
and former Duke graduate student Maurice 
Wallace, however, will join Yale's faculty 
next year. But considering the coverage that 
black intellectuals have been receiving as 
the new "public intellectual" in such 
popular magazines as The Atlantic Monthly 
and The New Yorker, losing Painter and 
Smith can be construed as a huge blow to 
Yale's academic reputation. 

In particular, the controversy that 
surrounds Smith's failure to be approved by


**Title: Between Vines**
**Author: Jay Dixit**
**Page number(s): 37-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
BETWEEN 
E 
V I N E S 
s A FRESHMAN at Yale, I've heard my 
share of theories about the importance 
of Yale vis-a-vis the world. 
But I wasn't really ready for this one. New Haven resident Jere 
Garceau-and the religious group he founded-thinks the "forces 
of darkness" may have targeted Yale in a maniacal scheme to take 
over the world. As Jere (pronounced "Jerry") puts it, "If you're the 
enemy, this is obviously the place where you are going to come to 
try to take control." 

Okay, evangelism is all the rage all around the country. People 
on· Cross Campus hand out the booklets with eyes overflowing 
with pity for the damned Yale student who brushes past them 
indifferently. And Jesse Jackson got downright biblical in his Barrell 
Christianity at Yale. Admittedly, it's a broad topic, but my friend 
had an interesting theory. "Suppose this is truth," he said picking 
up the salt shaker and holding it up between us. "When I look at 
it, I can only see part of it. But when you and I both look at it, we 
can see almost the whole thing! This is what people think truth 
is-that the more people you have telling you what they see, the 
closer we'll be to knowing what it really is. Maybe people don't like 
the idea that Jesus claimed that He Himself was the truth." 

"Yale is a very different place from what it was," my friend 
continued. "Founded under a Christian covenant: the Yale Charter 
Chapel speech last month-but a 
group that worries that Yale may 
be the battlefield for a global 
clash between good and evil? 
Jere Garceau thinks the "forces of 
of 1701, it was chartered as a 
place to train young men to 
disseminate the Gospel. They 
studied Greek and Hebrew, and 
they had required prayer." 

"''m not talking about Satan 
walking in with cloven hooves 
and a forked tail," Jere clarifies. 
"It's much more subtle than that 
because the Scripture says, he 
always comes as an angel of 
light." 

darkness" may have targeted Yale in a 
maniacal scheme to take over the 
It's hard to imagine many 
Yalies disseminating the Gospel 
today, difficui£ to picture 
missionaries spreading out from 
New Haven into distant, heathen 
lands as they once did. 

world. "If you're the enemy, this is 
obviously the place where you are 
going to come to try to take control." 
Yikes! "Lux" will never sound 
the same again. 

If you're wondering why 
you've never heard of Jere and his group before-after all, this stuff 
reeks of Rumpur-it's because, well, it's a coven operation. The 
prayer groups meet in Dwight Chapel and Marquand Chapel at the 
Yale Divinity School five days a week from 6 a.m. to 7 a.m. There 
they pray for a religious revival on Yale's campus. 

For four years now, they have been praying for a spiritual 
revival at Yale in the near future-and especially praying for every 
new freshman class. Chances are, if you're reading this article, 
they've been praying for you too, in the early morning hours, as 
you agonize over problem sets and papers. When I first met Jere he 
said to me, "You're class of '98, right? You're one of the guys we've 
been praying for!" 

I first heard about the prayer group-which doesn't 
Then my friend mentioned 
Jere's 
group: 
underground 
missionaries, as it were. Bur 
instead of traveling abroad for converts, they focus on Yale itself. 
It's as if the whole cycle of conversion has come full circle. I was 
curious. The next day I met with Jere at Ingall's rink to talk to him 
about the group. 

Jere was as nice and as decent as a man could be. We talked as he 
watched his two sons play hockey. He explained that he and some of 
his friends had come together to form the prayer group in 1990 afrer 
an international student at Yale committed suicide. Jere was 
concerned that the event was the worst in a series of manifestations 
of Yale's spiritual depravity. 

If fewer believers means "spiritual depravity," then it is hard to 
argue with him on this point. One need only exhume the musty 
parchment of the Yale Charter from its eternal resting 
have a name-while having dinner with a friend. We 
were talking about the attitudes people have towards 


--- Page 38 ---

**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"' 
. 
' . 
I 
• 
!t-
. • 
plec~with 
ion~n 
attofney~ 
be done 
her. They 
~would 
icity fa 
Is wou 
to de· 

