Publication date: OCT 2018
Volume: 51
Issue number: 2


**MASTHEAD:**
(None present in provided text)


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**


**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 1**

T H E  M A G A Z I N E  A B O U T
YA L E  &  N E W  H AV E N
VOL 51 / ISS 2 / OCT 2018
THE 
NEW 
JOURNAL
BIAS 
	 IN 
BLUE




**Title: Masthead**
**Author: The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 2**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
editors-in-chief 
Annie Rosenthal
Mark Rosenberg
managing editor
Arya Sundaram
senior editors
Antonia Ayres-Brown
Chris Hays
Robert Scaramuccia
associate editors
Laura Glesby
Max Graham
Rachel Koh
Sohum Pal
Elliot Wailoo
reporting supported by the Edward Bennett III Memorial Fund
members and directors
Emily Bazelon, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth 
Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
advisors
Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, 
Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel 
Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, 
John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin 
friends
Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Susan Braudy, Julia 
Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan 
Club, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob 
Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie 
Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, 
Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline 
Smith, Elizabeth Steig, Aliyya Swaby, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, 
Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen
The New Journal is published five times during the academic year by The New Journal at Yale, Inc., P.O. Box 203432 Yale Station, New Haven, CT 06520. Office address: 305 
Crown Street. All contents Copyright 2016 by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Reproduction either in whole or in part without written permission of the 
publisher and editors-in-chief is prohibited. The New Journal is a student-run publication at Yale University. While this magazine is published by Yale College students, Yale 
University is not responsible for its contents. The Yale University name and trademark is owned and used by permission of the University. Two thousand five hundred copies 
of each issue are distributed free to members of the Yale and New Haven communities. The New Journal is printed by Turley Publications, Palmer, MA; bookkeeping and 
billing services are provided by Colman Bookkeeping of New Haven. The New Journal encourages letters to the editor and comments on Yale and New Haven issues. Write 
to Editorials, 203432 Yale Station, New Haven, CT 06520. All letters for publication must include address and signature. We reserve the right to edit all letters for publication.
copy editors
Kofi Ansong
Yonatan Greenberg
Sofia Laguarda
Sara Luzuriaga
Eliana Swerdlow
design editors 
Merritt Barnwell
Meher Hans 
Sam Oldshue
Rachel Wolf
photo editors
Robbie Short
Vivek Suri
web developer
Philippe Chlenski


**Title: Editors' Letter**
**Author: Mark Rosenberg and Annie Rosenthal**

Dear readers,
It’s been quite a month. On September 23, The New Yorker reported that Debbie Ramirez had accused Supreme 
Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh of exposing himself to her in a Lawrance dorm during their first year at Yale. Glued to 
the livestream between classes, Yale students watched the Senate Judiciary Committee interrogate a woman eager to be 
“helpful” as she shared memories of trauma, and a graduate of our college who responded to allegations of assault with 
red-faced indignation. Our leaders –– nationally, and here on campus –– were not a source of inspiration or support that 
week. Yale Law School administrators and faculty teetered back and forth in their positions on Kavanaugh and the College 
administration declined to take a stance; our mothers called to remind us of Anita Hill’s testimony 27 years ago, and it 
seemed not much had changed. It was Yale students who rallied around survivors of sexual assault and pledged to build a 
better culture themselves. For this issue, Mark spoke to the five first-year women who live in the suite where (now-Justice) 
Kavanaugh allegedly harassed Ramirez. As their story makes clear, Yale’s past is not far removed from its present; as student 
activists make clear, a better future may be closer than we think.

Our cover story this issue is the product of a four-month investigation by associate editor Laura Glesby into policing on 
and around Yale’s campus. Her dogged reporting uncovered two new allegations of racially biased policing, and situated 
an incident at the Hall of Graduate Studies that attracted national attention this May within the Yale Police Department’s 
124-year history. It’s well worth a read.

Reporting a story like Laura’s is time-consuming and can be expensive. If you have an idea for a similarly ambitious 
story, and are seeking financial and editorial support, apply for the Edward B. Bennett III Memorial Award! We’ll give out 
grants of an average of $300 to cover reporting costs for stories to be published in TNJ this spring. Application materials 
are available on our website. If you have any questions, reach out to either of us by email –– we’d love to talk about it. 
Applications are due by November 1.

For now, enjoy the issue!
Mark Rosenberg and Annie Rosenthal, Editors-in-Chief
mark.b.rosenberg@yale.edu
anna.rosenthal@yale.edu



**Title: BIAS IN BLUE**
**Author: Laura Glesby**
**Page number(s): 26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Bringing forth new allegations, Black students and New 
Haven residents say that Yale’s police presence has 
threatened their sense of safety and belonging.


**Title: A HARD PILL TO SWALLOW**
**Author: Candice Wang**
**Page number(s): 16**

Science research at Yale is funded by the family
responsible for the opioid crisis. Faculty members don’t 
seem to care.


**Title: BROKE BY DESIGN**
**Author: Zola Canady**
**Page number(s): 4**

BROKE BY DESIGN — Zola Canady 


**Title: JESUS CHRIST, SUPERSTAR**
**Author: Noah Macey**

JESUS CHRIST, SUPERSTAR — Noah Macey


**Title: ART OF THE STATE**
**Author: Leila Murphy**
**Page number(s): 8**

Northwest of New Haven, the first museum in the Americas dedicated to
Palestinian art has opened its doors.


**Title: JUSTICE UNCONFIRMED**
**Author: Mark Rosenberg**
**Page number(s): 12**

As Brett Kavanaugh heads to the Supreme Court, his legacy looms over Yale’s
campus.


**Title: THE SCIENTIST AND THE SHRUB**
**Author: Henry Reichard**
**Page number(s): 19**

Michael Donoghue is the world’s leading expert on a plant no one’s ever heard of.


**Title: UNTIL IT CRACKS**
**Author: Mariah Kreutter**
**Page number(s): 23**

UNTIL IT CRACKS — Mariah Kreutter


**Title: IT IS THE FIRST DAY OF AUTUMN**
**Author: Oriana Tang**
**Page number(s): 33**

IT IS THE FIRST DAY OF AUTUMN  — Oriana Tang



**Title: BROKE BY DESIGN**
**Author: Zola Canady**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
This fall, Adam Moftah’s expenses added up 
quickly. He spent $15 Xeroxing old graphic 
designs to make new compositions for a project. Then, 
after he turned the project in, he learned from his pro­
fessor that he’d approached the assignment incorrectly, 
and would have to start anew. Meanwhile, he had two 
credit card bills due soon — nearly $200 for books, 
school supplies, and other expenses from the start of 
the semester. 

For Moftah, a senior from New York City, majoring 
in art hasn’t come cheap. He estimates he has spent at 
least $1,000 over the past four years on materials and 
printing fees. One course cost him $650 alone. One 
of the main expenses art students face is paying for 
materials, which, unlike textbooks, cannot be rented 
or downloaded as a PDF online. For students who are 
financially secure, then, taking an art class may require 
only shelling out a couple hundred dollars more. But 
for students who, like Moftah, receive nearly full finan­
cial aid, the extra financial burden can mean the differ­
ence between paying bills on time and taking on debt.

Recently, Moftah has started combining coding and 
art to explore virtual reality. Currently, although he 
is an undergraduate, he works as a graduate fellow at 
the Center for Collaborative Arts and Media (CCAM). 
This past August, Moftah’s work with virtual reality was 
exhibited in a virtual gallery maze at the CCAM called 
“Labyrinths.” He hopes to graduate with a job at an 
advertising or marketing firm, or at an art studio.

But at Yale, financial strain has affected Moftah’s cre­
ativity, he says. In trying to buy the cheapest materials 
and use as little as possible, Moftah says, you’re “basi­
cally reducing your experimental ambitions.” Now, 
he’s starting to take more digital video courses instead 
of graphic design courses because digital courses don’t 
charge additional fees to students. 

The Yale School of Art offers classes to both under­
graduates and Masters of Fine Arts graduate students. 
At the undergraduate level, courses typically require 
about $150 in course fees, paid directly to professors 
to cover communal supplies, visits from guest speakers, 
and transportation costs for field trips. These fees don’t 
include the cost of textbooks or materials fees.

Art students pay course fees once they turn in their 
schedules, weeks after paying tuition. As a result, these 
fees are not calculated in students’ cost of attendance, 
or in financial aid scholarships. To help art students 
finance summer opportunities abroad or at work, the 
School of Art offers the Robert Reed Scholarship Fund, 
but it does not provide scholarships to cover costs 
incurred during the academic year.

Director of Undergraduate Studies in Art Lisa 
Kereszi says that over the past few years, art students 
have frequently come to her for help with course fees 
–– so often that Assistant Dean for the Arts Kate Krier 
decided to buy cameras for students to borrow from the 
Cushing/Whitney Medical Library Circulation Desk, 
near the School of Art. Previously, the desk had only 
offered help with laptops. 

Still, Kereszi admits, “I can do very little, honestly. 
And I don’t know if my students now feel resentful.” 
When a student comes to Kereszi, she suggests that 
they ask their head of college or financial aid officer if 
a portion of their financial aid can be applied directly 
to course fees. 

This year, Moftah received $600 in addition to 
the $60,887 he typically receives in his financial aid 
package. The grant was labeled “Supplemental Allow­
ance,” funds Yale projected he would need for “senior 
expenses.” In years past, with no additional funding, 
Moftah had resorted to working up to three campus 
jobs during the semester ranging from shelving books 
in Sterling Memorial Library to modeling nude for 
other art classes.

Sometimes, professors try to help. Hazal Özgür is a 
junior art major from Turkey. Özgür says that an art 
professor once offered to pay for her materials, but she 
didn’t take him up on it. “I was like, ‘Nah, I can do this, 
don’t worry.’ Because I’ve been doing this anyway, $50 
isn’t going to solve my problems.” While Özgür praised 
her professor’s kindness, she does not feel comfortable 
accepting money from faculty. “It’s a sticky situation to 
be in,” she said.

As a professor, Kereszi typically uses course fees to 
fund field trips to museums and host guest critics or 
lecturers. In early October, Kereszi took two of her 
classes to New York City and used the course fees to 
pay for her students’ train tickets, metro cards, and 
museum tickets. While she realizes that these fees are 
an extra burden on students — Kereszi was a low-in­
come art major herself — she says that trips like these 
are necessary for a quality art education. 

Beyond course fees, there are still more hurdles. Tra­
ditionally, juniors who are art majors have worked in 
studio spaces in the sculpture building, but due to the 
recent growth in the number of art majors, juniors were 
not offered studios this year. While some of her wealth­
ier friends rented spaces in New Haven, which can cost 
$600 each month, Özgür didn’t have the money to do 
so. Working in her apartment isn’t an option for Özgür; 
it’s small enough to trap toxic paint fumes. For now, 
she can’t afford to buy canvases, so she can’t tackle her 
artistic specialty — large scale paintings. In fact, Özgür 
is currently working on only one piece, since she lacks 
the money to do more.


 “No one really talks about these issues in the 
School of Art, and in this major in general,” she said. 
“It’s sort of like an unspoken thing. Because [major­
ing in art] implies that you know what you’re getting 
yourself into. It’s like, ‘We’re not forcing you to do this, 
you’re choosing this for yourself.’” 

Kerezsi acknowledges that this dynamic is an issue. 
“I know how hard it is to go to a wealthy school and be 
one of the students who’s a ‘scholarship kid,’” Kerezsi 
says. “It’s really important to me that one of the many 
ways Yale is diverse is class.”

Meanwhile, Moftah says that being asked to re-do 
his graphic design project was an informative experi­
ence. Now, when he works on projects, he is forced to 
account for the financial uncertainty that accompanies 
doing art at Yale and contend with his steep printing 
costs. Creating art, for him, is no longer exploratory. 
“There’s pressure to be doing well. Part of doing well is 
figuring out printing, and part of doing that is having a 
lot of money to spend on printing,” he said. “I need to 
figure this out sooner. I can’t be as experimental; I have 
to be more deliberate.”
– Zola Canady is a first-year
in Trumbull College.



**Title: JESUS CHRIST, POINT OF DEPARTURE**
**Author: [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 6**

Every Sunday morning around 6:00 a.m., the inte­
rior of College Street Music Hall undergoes a subtle 
metamorphosis. The bar is shuttered, coffee urns appear 
in the front lobby, and rows of chairs replace the Satur­
day-night concert detritus strewn about the 2,000-person 
venue. The concert lights and an earplug dispenser stay in 
place. Church starts at 8:30.

As congregants meander into the building under a 
marquee advertising this season’s concert lineup, which 
features Dirty Heads and Lil Yachty, volunteers clad in 
black t-shirts distribute grins, information cards, and 
“good-morning”s. Soaring vocals fight their way through 
the bellowing synth and guitar and into the lobby:
Who the Son sets free, oh!
Is free indeed—
I’m a child of God,
Yes I am!

Vox Church, known until June as City Church, holds 
three services every Sunday morning. In 2011, Chris­
tian-rocker-turned-pastor Justin Kendrick started the min­
istry out of Toad’s Place. The non-denominational, born-
again congregation has since outgrown Toads’ 750-person 
space and spread beyond New Haven, with a campus 
down the coast in Bridgeport and another set to open in 
Stamford in 2019. Vox has also floated up the Connecticut 
River into North Haven, Middletown, and Hartford, and 
just crossed state lines this October into Massachusetts—a 
state where less than one in four people attend religious 
services weekly, according to Pew’s most recent Religious 
Landscape Study.

Connecticut isn’t much more pious; Pew ranks it as the 
forty-sixth most religious state, ahead of Vermont, Maine, 
New Hampshire, and Massachusetts. Despite these statis­
tics, the landing page on Vox’s website trumpets a mission 
“to see New England become the most spiritually vibrant 
place on Earth.” The church’s success is especially sur­
prising given the recent drop in the number of born-again 
and evangelical Christians, which fell from 26 percent 
of the nation’s population in 2007 to 17 percent in 2016. 
Only a tenth of evangelicals are under 30. Vox seems to 
buck these trends, among others. As Kendrick quipped in 
a sermon this summer, “This ain’t the church Grandma 
went to.”

The sermons at Vox begin after a thirty-minute musi­
cal performance by the church’s “worship team,” often 
led by Justin’s wife, Chrisy. They belt out pop-hymns 
in front of LED rectangles. Yellow and fuchsia concert 
lights sweep over the crowd, illuminating a diverse array 
of congregants, some with hands raised in praise, oth­
ers with heads bowed in worship, and at least one infant 
wearing noise-cancelling headphones. As the band ends 
on a crescendo, Kendrick, his dark hair and five o’clock 
shadow visible from the back of the hall, rocks onstage in 
time with the guitar. He greets the assembled with a voice 
at least as loud as the band he’s replacing: “Welcome to 
church!” It’s when he’s behind the microphone that I wish 
I’d grabbed earplugs on the way in.

Kendrick reminds everyone that Vox is “one church in 
five locations.” His sermon is live-streamed to the church’s 
offshoots. It’s also posted to the Vox website, with a dub­
step-drop intro slapped onto the beginning, so viewers can 
attend church wherever there’s WiFi. The digital revolu­
tion isn’t only for the ministry: Churchgoers with glowing 
phones aren’t texting during Kendrick’s sermon—they’re 
following his scripture references with an online Bible.

The congregation, which numbers 2,000 each week 
across the church’s campuses, matches Kendrick’s energy. 
Applause erupts almost a dozen times a sermon, and con­



**Superstar: Vox Church in New Haven**
**Author: Noah Macey**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 7
OCTOBER 2018
 SUPERSTAR
cert-worthy woooos are more common than you’d think. 
Vox encourages its parishioners to take notes, which is 
challenging because Kendrick’s pace is quick: he zings 
from childhood stories to Biblical exegesis to TED Talk–
style life lessons. Once or twice a sermon, he stops to 
announce, “If you’re taking notes today, you can write this 
down,” before presenting some of the day’s distilled wis­
dom. One Sunday in September, Kendrick used a blow­
torch, Drano, a straitjacket, and a tennis ball as part of an 
extended vulnerability metaphor that brought the house 
down. Minutes later, the woman next to me was moved to 
tears by the pastor’s story about apologizing to his eleven-
year-old son.


Tim Gnaneswaran, Connections Director for Vox’s 
New Haven Campus, says he knows why the services are 
so powerful. “The Holy Spirit,” he tells me. “[The Gospel] 
is the book we’re sharing, but the Holy Spirit is moving in 
our services, and that’s what makes them dynamic.”


Raquel Sequeira, a Yale sophomore and one of several 
Yale students who regularly attend Vox, wasn’t sure about 
the church’s “rock-and-roll” vibe at first. But alongside 
the theatrics she found a pastor who takes the Bible seri­
ously—often delving into the original Greek—without 
losing sight of personal spiritual experience. The flashy 
style mattered to her less than the biblical content. “What 
ended up being true was something [Kendrick] says a lot: 
‘Connecting with God is more than your brain, more than 
your mind, more than your emotions.’” For Sequeira, the 
central question of a religious space is, “Do I feel like the 
Holy Spirit is here?” She says the answer at Vox is yes. 
Plus, unlike other churches in the area, Vox doesn’t feel 
“tailored to students.”


Sequeira’s only hesitation is that among the bells and 
whistles and blowtorches, the church can come off as 
“appearance-focused,” especially compared to the Angli­
can parish where she was raised. When the pastor is in 
ripped jeans and the church is in a concert hall, the 
branding is so pointed, Sequiera thinks, that it might 
appear disingenuous.


Timothy White, a junior, went so far as to call Vox’s 
marketing tactics “somewhat nefarious.” White, who is 
gay and grew up as the son of an Evangelical minister, told 
me that a lack of clarity and inconsistency between mar­
keting and doctrine can make parishioners feel excluded 
from a community that otherwise espouses, according to 
their website, “respect and Christian love.” At Vox, he 
said, “They present an image of diversity, while excluding 
people under wraps.” White said the church isn’t up-front 
about its belief, lifted from Corinthians I and common 
among evangelicals, that sex is a spiritual experience only 
appropriate in a marriage between a man and a woman. 
Since White stopped attending in 2016, Vox has held a 
sermon on sexuality (also featuring a blowtorch) that clar­
ified its adherence to that interpretation of Corinthians.


The name “Vox” also arrived after White left, and is 
part of a push to showcase the church’s self-proclaimed 
uniqueness. “Although the name City Church carries so 
much meaning for us,” explained Kendrick in a video 
announcement of the name change on the church’s You­
Tube channel, “it’s also a name used by many churches 
across the country.” Vox has a more distinct flavor. Mean­
ing “voice” in Latin, the name is inspired by John 5:25, 
which Kendrick quotes later in the same video: “Truly I 
say to you, an hour is coming and is now here, when the 
dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those 
who hear”—with or without earplugs, one assumes—“will 
live.”

Noah Macey
– Noah Macey is a senior
in Timothy Dwight College.
photos by Meher Hans



**Art of the State**
**Author: Leila Murphy**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

 8
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
S N A P S H O T
Northwest of New Haven, the first museum in the Americas dedicated to Palestinian art has 
opened its doors. 
Leila Murphy
photos by Leila Murphy
ART OF THE STATE
overshadows much of the discourse around Palestine 
in the U.S. The U.S. was the first country to recognize 
Israel in 1948, and has long been Israel’s largest trading 
partner and political ally. Most Americans learn about 
Palestinians through politicians like Newt Gingrich, 
who has called the Palestinians an “invented people,” or 
Donald Trump, who recently tweeted that Palestinians 
do not “appreciate or respect” the U.S. and are unwill­
ing to talk peace. Far more Americans sympathize more 
with Israel (54 percent) than with the Palestinians (14 
percent) in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, according to 
a 2016 Pew Research Center Foreign Policy study—in 
contrast with global public opinion, which is generally 
more sympathetic to the Palestinian cause. In this polar­
ized political climate, Saleh feels that art humanizes 
Palestinians, providing an entry point into dialogue in a 
way that no political negotiations can.


Saleh was born in El Bireh, a Palestinian city about 
ten miles north of Jerusalem in the central West Bank 
— a land east of Israel that today most of the interna­
tional community considers to be illegally occupied Pal­
estinian territory. His family’s story is “like the story of 
millions of Palestinians,” he said. “They were refugees 
in 1948. Their families lost everything. They had to pick 
up the pieces—they had to struggle.”


Saleh came to the U.S. to finish his high school 
diploma in 1969, when he was seventeen. He received a 
Bachelor’s degree from Oberlin College and an M.B.A. 
from the University of Connecticut, and has lived in the 
United States ever since, working in human resources 
for over forty years. He opened the museum on the 
ground floor of an office building he owns on a quiet 
stretch of the Litchfield Turnpike. Renovations began in 
September of 2017, and the museum opened less than a 
year later, in April of 2018.


According to Saleh, about half of the museum’s visi­
tors are of Palestinian descent, often hailing from Bos­
ton, Philadelphia, and New York. In addition to show­
casing Palestinian art, the museum also hosts cultural 
events. In recent months, it has hosted a traditional 
Palestinian storyteller, an Arab-Israeli member of the 
Knesset (Israel’s parliament), and a comedy show with 
a Palestinian-American comedian that drew a crowd of 
W
oodbridge, Connecticut, a sleepy suburb 
fifteen minutes northwest of downtown New 
Haven, is an unlikely home for Palestine Museum 
U.S.—the first and only museum in the Americas ded­
icated solely to Palestinian history, culture, and art. 
Woodbridge has a sizable Jewish population: two Jew­
ish community centers and three synagogues flank the 
museum. It’s exactly the kind of place where one might 
expect a museum dedicated to Palestine to raise more 
than a few eyebrows.


Faisal Saleh, the Palestinian businessman who 
founded the museum last spring, and now serves as its 
director, claims no political agenda. He said he hopes 
to use the museum to showcase the artistic excellence 
of Palestinians, providing visitors with a glimpse of what 
Palestinians are like “outside of all the mumble jumble 
of the political haranguing and arguments.”


This “mumble jumble”—which, this past summer, 
included border protests and shootings in Gaza, paired 
with the Trump administration’s divisive decision to 
move the U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem—


 9
over a hundred people.


I arrived for a tour on a Sunday afternoon. A floor-to-
ceiling mural on the left wall of the reception area fea­
tured the pensive face of a young white woman, super­
imposed over a scene of the young woman standing in 
front of an armed bulldozer. Chris, a volunteer, told me 
that the mural was painted in tribute to Rachel Corrie, 
an American pro-Palestine activist killed by an Israeli 
bulldozer in Gaza in 2003. An aerial photograph of 
Jerusalem extended across the wall opposite the mural, 
and a table lined with books related to Palestine stood 
in between.


Dina Omar, an Anthropology graduate student at Yale 
and museum volunteer, approached and introduced her­
self. Omar is Palestinian; her family hails from Ramoun, 
a small village in the West Bank. She led me from the 
first room, the reception area, into a larger gallery, filled 
with black-and-white photographs on three walls. A mid­
dle-aged man with white hair and glasses was nailing 
down some of the photographs whose edges had curled 
up. (“It’s the weather,” he said.) He came over and intro­
duced himself as Faisal.


Saleh and Omar took me on a tour of the four-thou­
sand-square-foot museum, which consists of several 
galleries and a large event space, all on the ground 
floor of the building. Saleh began with the collection 
of pre-1948 photographs of Palestine, which he picked 
out himself. “We wanted to show what Palestine was 
like in the nineteen-hundreds, that there was a thriving 
community of Palestinians,” he said. A few photographs 
depict Palestinian resistance against British rule and 
Zionist emigration to Palestine. Others present scenes 
of everyday life: a cotton market in Jerusalem, a class 
picture of students at a girls’ school. 


Saleh led me to a case containing an old passport 
labeled “The State of Palestine” and a small business 
ledger. These documents belong to Saleh’s father, who 
owned a business in Palestine that grew and exported 
fruit. The staple holding the documents together, Saleh 
proudly told me, had survived since 1946.


Most of the artists on display are from the West Bank 
or Gaza—some still live there, while others live and 
work abroad. One objective of the museum is to provide 
a market for Palestinian art. “Art galleries in Palestine 
caught wind of this gallery and were hungry to show in 
the U.S.,” Saleh said. The Palestine Museum invites 
proposals for exhibition from Palestinian artists on its 
website. Saleh is open to featuring artists working in a 
variety of media. 


Maisarah Baroud, an artist from Gaza, draws heavily 
on mystical imagery in haunting black-and-white ink 
drawings. His piece “Dialogue” depicts hollowed-out, 
skeletal bodies, which, Omar explained, represent the 



**The Palestine Museum: A Haven for Art and Dialogue**
**Author: Leila Murphy**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Palestine Museum, nestled in Woodbridge, Connecticut, stands as a testament to the resilience of Palestinian culture and the power of art to transcend conflict.  Founded by businessman Bashar Saleh, the museum showcases a diverse collection of artwork, offering a poignant reflection on Palestinian experiences, from the faded dreams of the “Oslo generation” to the constraints of life under occupation and in the diaspora.


One striking exhibit features the expressionist paintings of Malak Mattar, an eighteen-year-old artist from Gaza, whose work vividly portrays the claustrophobia and isolation inherent in life under occupation.  The museum also displays artwork created by Gaza children who survived the 2008-2009 Gaza War, providing a stark depiction of the violence they endured.  This exhibit, previously cancelled in Oakland due to pro-Israel opposition, stands as a symbol of the museum's commitment to showcasing unfiltered Palestinian narratives.


Saleh's vision extends beyond the current Woodbridge location. He hopes to establish branches in major U.S. cities, despite the anticipated opposition from those who oppose a Palestinian presence in those cities.  The museum’s success, however, is not solely attributed to Saleh's financial resources and business acumen, but also to strong community ties.  The museum has even hosted a Rosh Hashanah service, highlighting the interfaith collaboration and community building that the museum facilitates.


Saleh believes that by showcasing the humanity of the Palestinian people, the museum can challenge the injustices of policies like the defunding of UNRWA, particularly when contrasted with the substantial U.S. aid to Israel.  For Saleh, demonstrating the shared humanity between Palestinians and others is a key step towards fostering understanding and progress.


– Leila Murphy is a senior
in Morse College.



**Snapshot: Justice Unconfirmed**
**Author: Mark Rosenberg**
**Page number(s): 12**

S N A P S H O T
As Brett Kavanaugh heads to the Supreme Court, his legacy looms over Yale’s campus.
Mark Rosenberg
illustrations by Sam Oldshue
JUSTICE UNCONFIRMED



**Title: The Brett Kavanaugh Suite**
**Author: Mark Rosenberg**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The decorations in the suite on the first floor of entryway B in Lawrance Hall are relatively sparse. When Barbara Mola, Emma Lewer, Macrina Wang, Sofia Ortega-Guerrero, and Kara O’Rourke, all first-years in Ezra Stiles College, moved into their dorm at the end of August, the tall white walls were drab and unassuming. The suitemates have since added some decor: string lights, a fruit bowl, a gray rug that occasionally doubles as a yoga mat, and a tapestry depicting the New York skyline (none of the five are from the city; Ortega-Guerrero, who hails from Oakland, found the tapestry in a dumpster behind Payne Whitney Gymnasium). There’s music playing all the time, often Drake or Kehlani. They’ve made the place their own. Still, on the surface, there’s little that would seem to differentiate their suite from any of the hundreds surrounding Old Campus.


But on the evening of September 23, a group of a half-dozen male students gathered outside of entryway B, gawking and talking loudly about the first-floor suite. Earlier that day, The New Yorker had reported that Senate Democrats were investigating an allegation of sexual misconduct brought forward by Deborah Ramirez, a Yale College classmate of Brett Kavanaugh, who was at that point on the cusp of confirmation to the Supreme Court. Ramirez claimed that during the 1983-84 academic year, when they were both freshmen, Kavanaugh had exposed his penis to her during a drinking game, while other students encouraged Ramirez to touch it. Ramirez remembered Kavanaugh standing to her right and laughing as he pulled up his pants. The suite where the incident allegedly took place is the same one Mola, Lewer, Wang, Ortega-Guerrero, and O’Rourke now call home.


Just over a week before Ramirez’s allegations surfaced, research psychologist and Palo Alto University professor Christine Blasey Ford publicly accused Kavanaugh of assaulting her at a party in suburban Maryland three decades ago, when they were high schoolers. A group of students at Yale Law School, incensed that faculty and administrators endorsed Kavanaugh after his nomination, planned a teach-in. Once Ramirez’s allegations came to light, the news that Kavanaugh had allegedly engaged in sexual misconduct while on campus, before parlaying his Yale pedigree into judicial prestige, bolstered students’ outcry. Amidst the furor, the Lawrance suite became a new landmark in the country’s fractured political geography. “It was ‘The Brett Kavanaugh Suite,’” said Ortega-Guerrero, sitting with Mola, Lewer, and Wang at a picnic table in the Grace Hopper College Courtyard in the late-afternoon sun the day after Kavanaugh’s confirmation.


In the days following Ramirez’s allegation, a steady stream of students paused in front of the quintet’s home, like rubberneckers on a highway, peering up for a glimpse. Several got inside the entryway and camped right outside the suite, waiting for the door to open. A few even brought cameras. Four days after the news broke, Lewer, a bespectacled aspiring linguist from Sunnyvale, CA, saw a tall white man with curly hair who appeared to be in his 30s holding a sign outside of the Yale University Art Gallery that read “Kavanaugh Allegation Tours, $5.” Soon thereafter, a friend sent a photograph of the same man standing outside the gates of Old Campus; after questioning the members of the suite, the Yale Police Department confronted him and he left the premises. “We usually leave our doors open and let people walk through,” said Wang, who spoke fast, her words accelerating by the sentence. “Our [first-year counselor] advised us to lock the doors… It was our common room, our decorations were up and our lives were there, and all of a sudden it didn’t feel like ours anymore.”


“It really sucks when something so awful could’ve happened in a place that you consider to be sacred, a safe environment, somewhere where you build your community and have a family,” Lewer said. Her suite-mates, seated beside her, murmured in assent. However, they agreed, they all had entered college aware that, as women, they would have to look out for themselves.


“I remember when I got here—I’m pretty sure this was still during orientation week—I was given a list of frats that should be avoided,” Lewer said. “I was like, ‘Oh, wow, okay, so this is still an issue. It’s 2018, I just got to college, and I’ve already been warned of places that are notorious for sexual assault, which is a shame.’” The list included Delta Kappa Epsilon, Kavanaugh’s fraternity at Yale. DKE has a history of misogyny dating back to the 1980s, according to alumni quoted in the Yale Daily News. The fraternity was banned from campus from 2011 to 2016 after video surfaced of pledges chanting “No means yes, yes means anal” outside the Yale Women’s Center. In the two-plus years since DKE’s reinstatement, women have brought forward allegations of sexual misconduct against at least six current or former fraternity members, according to multiple Yale Daily News investigations, prompting the University to open a Title IX investigation and DKE’s landlord to revoke the leases for the fraternity’s two houses on Lake Place.


Between January 1 and June 30 this year, Yale students submitted 154 complaints of sexual misconduct to the University’s Title IX office, an all-time high. Women and non-binary students submitted 141 of the 154 complaints. Yale has taken steps to publicize resources for victims, like the Sexual Harassment and Assault Response & Education Center (SHARE), the University-Wide Committee on Sexual Misconduct, and the Office for Equal Opportunity Programs.


But students have been calling on administrators to do more. Many are frustrated with Yale’s failure to address allegations of sexual misconduct against several prominent faculty members, including philosophy professor Thomas Pogge, English professor Harold Bloom, and Spanish professor Roberto González Echevarría. Controversy arose when, this fall, the University readmitted Saifullah Khan, an undergraduate accused of sexual assault and suspended in 2015, after he was acquitted in a February trial. (Khan was suspended again on October 11 after new allegations surfaced.) And, in September, around 200 School of Medicine faculty signed a petition against Yale’s decision to award an endowed professorship to Michael Simons, a cardiology professor who was found guilty of sexual harassment in 2013. The professorship was subsequently revoked.


For Wang, the Senate’s confirmation of Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court last week cemented a lesson her parents had instilled in her from a young age. “It hammered deeper into my head that I cannot get myself into a situation in which I would even have to report sexual assault because it’s very likely that I won’t get the justice that I deserve,” she said. “I think that’s why parents tell girls, ‘Oh, don’t wear this, and don’t drink, and don’t go to parties.’ It’s incredibly messed up that parents have to imprint to their daughters … how not [to] get raped or how not to get assaulted.”


As Kavanaugh’s confirmation approached, students held rallies and blanketed campus billboards with a paper mosaic that read “We Believe Christine Blasey Ford/Deborah Ramirez/Julie Swetnick/Anita Hill/Fernanda Lopez Aguilar/Naomi Wolf/All Survivors.” (The first three women accused Kavanaugh of misconduct, Hill accused Supreme Court Justice and fellow Yale Law School alum Clarence Thomas, Lopez Aguilar accused Thomas Pogge, and Wolf accused Harold Bloom.) On at least four occasions, these signs were torn down and students had to reprint and replace them. Facing pressure, Law School Dean Heather Gerken, who previously declined to take a stance on Kavanaugh’s nomination, and law professor Akhil Amar, who had testified in support of Kavanaugh before Congress, both called for a full investigation into the allegations against him. The FBI did investigate, but its five-day search was limited to interviews with ten people, and found no evidence to corroborate Ford or Ramirez’s allegations. Neither Ford nor Kavanaugh was interviewed.


As Kavanaugh’s confirmation became certain, Yale students who had condemned his nomination moved forward with a new sense of resolve. “The theme of my first month here has been sexual assault on college campuses, which on the one hand is incredibly unfortunate,” Mola said. “On the other hand, I do think it’s good that these allegations have garnered national attention.” While the Senate took its final vote, students gathered at the Women’s Table, a monument designed by Maya Lin in 1989 to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the coeducation of Yale College, and laid down flowers and notes in support of victims of sexual violence. In chalk, students wrote, “Solidarity with survivors. We hear you. We love you. We believe you.” Roses, zinnias, and chrysanthemums, orange and pink and yellow and white, reflected off the water shimmering on the table’s gray surface.


With Kavanaugh set to sit atop the judicial branch for the rest of his life, support for victims of sexual misconduct seems robust on Yale’s campus but lacking in America’s halls of power. Yet the distance between the two has never felt smaller.

“It was our common room, our decorations were up and our lives were there,” Wang said, “and all of a sudden it didn’t feel like ours anymore.”

– Mark Rosenberg is a junior in Pierson College.




**Title: A HARD PILL TO SWALLOW**
**Author: Candice Wang**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 16
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Yale cell biology professor Yongli Zhang 
conducts his research using tiny tweezers. These 
aren’t tweezers you’d find hanging in the CVS beauty 
section. They’re far too small to pluck your eyebrows: 
about one hundred of them, bunched up, are as thick 
as a single human hair. With the aid of a microscope, 
you’d see that the tweezers are used to manipulate tiny 
glass beads. Together, one or two beads work to trap 
and apply force onto a single molecule. Using these 
optical tweezers, Zhang, who joined Yale’s faculty in 
2009, studies protein molecules called SNARE com­
plexes, which are key to understanding serious diseases 
such as epilepsy. 

Zhang’s potentially groundbreaking research relies 
on a steady stream of funding, and graduate students 
who study both biology and physics. That’s where the 
Raymond and Beverly Sackler Institute of Biological, 
Engineering, and Physical Sciences comes in.

Founded in 2008 to strengthen collaboration be­
tween biology, physics, and engineering researchers at 
Yale, the Sackler Institute currently facilitates research 
by Zhang and 50 other faculty members. Donations 
from the Sackler family fund a wide range of research 
at Yale, Tufts, Harvard, and Princeton. The family has 
also endowed Yale’s David A. Sackler Professorship of 
Pharmacology with $3 billion. This post is currently 
held by Professor Mark Lemmon at the Yale Cancer 
Biology Institute. A spokesperson for the Sackler Foun­
dation declined to comment on how much money 
Yale receives each year, as did the Yale Development 
Office.

But the Sacklers’ $13 billion fortune comes at a cost: 
their company, Purdue Pharma, a massive pharma­
ceutical conglomerate and the creator of OxyContin, 
has been blamed by activists, government officials, 
and medical experts for fueling the opioid crisis raging 
across America. 

In 1952, Arthur, Mortimer, and Raymond Sackler 
bought Purdue Frederick, a small private medical com­
pany. Together, the three brothers from Brooklyn built 
a pharmaceutical empire out of circular white pills no 
illustrations by Rachel Wolf
Science research at Yale is funded by the family responsible for the opioid crisis. Faculty mem­
bers don’t seem to care.


---

 17
OCTOBER 2018
larger than the tip of an index finger. OxyContin comes 
in doses of 10, 80, or 160 milligrams and, unlike oth­
er prescription painkillers, has a patented slow-release 
technology that allows patients to take only two doses 
every twenty-four hours. The main ingredient of this 
‘miracle drug’ is oxycodone, a close cousin of heroin. 
When OxyContin appeared on pharmacy shelves in 
1995, doctors generally believed that opioids only be­
longed in hospice care centers. Terminally ill patients 
were frequently prescribed opioids like morphine, be­
cause at that point in their illnesses, addiction was no 
longer a concern. The Sacklers worked tirelessly to 
overturn these perceptions, according to an exposé by 
Patrick Radden Keefe published in The New Yorker in 
2017.

Purdue’s marketing campaign was a massive opera­
tion. The company employed over 1,000 sales repre­
sentatives armed with graphs and statistics designed 



to convince doctors that opioids were a casual and 
safe solution to even minor arthritic pain and muscle 
strains. Representatives offered smiling OxyContin pill 
plushies colored white, pink, and blue. There were 
OxyContin tote bags, baseball caps, picture books, and 
clocks. In 1997, Arthur Sackler was posthumously in­
ducted into the Medical Advertising Hall of Fame.
 “The initial marketing of OxyContin was very ag­
gressive,” said Dr. Lynn Madden, the CEO and Direc­
tor of the APT Foundation, which provides free walk-in 
addiction treatment to New Haven residents. “Yes, I do 
think that the marketing campaign did result in lots of 
powerful medication being prescribed and ultimately 
being abused.”

When asked to comment on their ties to the opioid 
crisis, representatives of Purdue Pharma responded 
with the following statement: “Since its approval, Oxy­
Contin has been and continues to be appropriately pre­
scribed by doctors to bring needed relief to thousands 
suffering from severe pain, including those with cancer 
and terminal illnesses.” Purdue also stressed in its state­
ment that the company has been developing programs 
to create “meaningful solutions to help stem the tide 
of opioid-related overdose deaths,” such as providing 
funds for state prescription drug monitoring programs 
and spearheading educational initiatives about the 
dangers of opioids for teenagers. 

According to Radden Keefe, Purdue Pharma paid off 
respected scientific authorities to distort the addictive 
effects of OxyContin. Russell Portenoy, the pain spe­
cialist at the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center 
in New York, claimed that opioids should be destigma­
tized and used as an effective, safe painkiller with few 
side effects. He received regular payments from Pur­
due Pharma. Dr. Curtis Wright of the Food and Drug 
Administration approved an insert in each OxyContin 
bottle that reassured users that the drug was safer than 
rival painkillers due to the delayed-absorption mech­
anism. He quit the FDA and landed a job at Purdue 
Pharma two years later. Scientific research, in this case, 
was crudely manhandled for personal profit at the ex­
pense of the common good.

In 2007, Purdue Pharma pled guilty in federal court 
to accusations of deliberate misadvertisement, and 
agreed to pay $600 million in fines. This, however, was 
just a sliver of the $13 billion that Purdue earned by 
selling OxyContin.



The name “Raymond and Beverly Sackler Institute” 
calls to mind high, austere stone walls and gold-em­
blazoned plates. But no such building exists on Yale’s 
campus. Instead, the Sackler Institute is a forum for 
researchers. During monthly lunch discussions in lec­
ture halls on Science Hill, Sackler-affiliated professors 
share their latest research, and participants from a vari­
ety of scientific backgrounds meet and chat with their 
colleagues. Neuroscience Professor Alex Kwan, whose 
lab is located at Yale’s medical campus, said that the 
Institute has helped him solidify his connections with 
associates a fifteen-minute walk away at the main cam­
pus.

Additionally, the Sackler Institute’s partnership 
with Yale’s Integrated Graduate Program in Physical 
and Engineering Biology, or PEB, channels graduate 
students into research positions with Sackler faculty 
and connects them to various interdisciplinary lecture 
courses. Sackler professors, in turn, can recruit from a 
pool of talented graduate students across multiple dis­
ciplines.

“Interdisciplinary studies can really drive a field for­



 18
ward rather than just focusing on one field,” said Mil­
ind Singh, a PEB graduate student studying glycolysis, 
the process by which cells convert sugar into energy. 
“Just expanding on one field alone probably won’t re­
sult in many advances.”

Members of the Sackler Institute enjoy access to an­
nual seed grants of $50,000, enough to either start a 
lab or take on a risky new research venture, according 
to Kwan.

All five Sackler-affiliated professors I interviewed 
expressed strong enthusiasm for the Sackler Institute. 
When asked about the controversial Sackler name, 
Zhang said that the opioid epidemic has never come 
up during the weekly discussions, and that he had only 
“heard about it recently, maybe in a conversation.”

I asked Professor Scott Holley, head of a biology lab 
conducting research on the spinal column, whether he 
had any ethical qualms about the origins of the Sackler 
Institute’s funds.
“Not necessarily,” said Holley. “We are aware of it, 
but it’s like the Rockefellers and Carnegies and how 
they got their money. The world is not black and white. 
I think it’s a good thing that they are supporting scientif­
ic research and that’s something that benefits society.” 

Singh, the PEB student, said he had never heard 
about the Sacklers’ connection to the opioid crisis pri­
or to our conversation. He said that if he had a position 
of authority in the Sackler Institute, he would focus on 
the future and the current scientific research conduct­
ed by Sackler-affiliated professors. “There’s always a 
possibility that if the company really tries to improve… 
it’s always possible to move on,” he said.



Some people, however, find it difficult to move on. 
Matthew Jeffrey Abrams, who received a Ph.D in His­
tory of Art from Yale in 2017, led a double life. He spent 
his teenage years in the suburbs shooting Ketamine 
and OxyContin, and once smuggled drugs across the 
Mexican border. By 19, he had reclaimed sobriety and 
reentered school; he went on to receive a PhD at Yale. 
Now, Abrams is a writer and art historian living in New 
York City. In a personal essay published in The Guard­
ian this May, he wrote, “Only last week, during a visit 
to my alma mater, did I begin to understand the role 
that Yale played in my own addiction.”

In the essay, Abrams wrote, he saw the traces of ad­
diction creeping onto Yale’s campus. From Skull & 
Bones, whose founder, William Russell, had familial 
ties to the Indo-Chinese opium trade, to Yale’s sprawl­
ing medical campus, whose Sackler Institute lives on a 
yearly injection of Purdue money, Yale’s connections 
to the opioid epidemic are omnipresent—and the af­
tershock is far from over.

Dr. Madden, the founder and CEO of the APT 
Foundation, said the opioid crisis continues to grow 
in Connecticut. According to Madden, in 2017, 1,038 
people in the state died of an opioid overdose. Nation­
wide, she estimated, upwards of 110 people are dying 
per day relative to opioid use disorders.

While the opioid crisis rages throughout Connecti­
cut and the rest of the country, with 2.3 million Ameri­
cans suffering from addiction, the scientific researchers 
at Yale have yet to interrogate the name looming over 
the Sackler Institute.

When I asked Professor Kwan about the Sackler 
funds, he responded much like the other professors.
“I have not put much thought into it.” 
– Candice Wang is a sophomore
in Berkeley Colllege



**Title: The Scientist and the Shrub**
**Author: Henry Reichard**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 19
OCTOBER 2018
THE SCIENTIST AND THE SHRUB
P R O F I L E
Michael Donoghue is the world’s leading expert on a plant that no one’s ever heard of.
“
This is yesterday’s flower,” Michael Dono­
ghue said, pointing to a half-wilted bloom. He 
was standing in the middle of a greenhouse, sur­
rounded by students. The room was filled with insec­
tivorous plants and deciduous trees, the air heavy with 
pollen and moisture. The plant before Donoghue had 
heart-shaped leaves, a spindly stem wrapped around 
a wire brace like ivy, and two huge burgundy flowers 
that drooped despondently. It was labeled Aristolochia 
gigantea.

“And this is today’s,” Donoghue added, pointing 
to the larger bloom. He reached out, turned today’s 
flower around, and revealed a small, cream-colored 
capsule behind it. “Flies are lured into the calyx,” he 
explained, indicating the capsule, “and once inside, 
they’re trapped. They get drenched in pollen.” Then 
the flower wilts (it lasts only a day), the calyx collapses, 
and the flies escape—only to be caught again within 
the flower of another gigantea. And so the plant pol­
linates.

The students scribbled in their sketchbooks. They 
were all drawing the gigantea for a class in plant biol­
ogy: some artistically, others rather unartistically, but 
all with an attention to detail that they were slowly 
learning from their teacher. Donoghue stepped back 
and watched them. He is a short man with a habit of 
photos by Vivek Suri


 20
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
dressing simply and practically, often in jeans and a plaid 
shirt. His thinning hair and thick beard both turned white 
long ago. He is 66. But his posture is excellent; his eyes are 
clear and blue; and his voice is calm and rhythmical—the 
sort of voice that could read pages out of the phone book 
without boring its listeners.

When you walk with Donoghue, he calls your attention 
to the tiny hairs on the stem of a tomato plant. He points out 
the scales on the fruit of an Annona cherimola, shows you 
the chitinous “sugar apple” of an Annona squamosa. And 
you have the strange feeling that he is teaching you how to 
see. It’s as if he’s handed you a pair of delicate glasses, and 
when you put them on you realize that the natural world 
has always been out-of-focus. Every leaf now tells a story; 
every piece of bark hints at its owner’s ancestry; every flower 
is a subtle contraption waiting for the attention of one who 
looks closely. Donoghue has always looked closely. He has 
built a career out of noticing the unnoticed.

For much of his life, Donoghue has studied a genus of 
about 165 shrubs and small trees called Viburnum. These 
shrubs were the subject of his dissertation and have been 
the primary focus of his research for the past decade. They 
are, according to him, not very interesting.

Viburnum isn’t one of those plants that grows to be a 
hundred feet tall. It doesn’t eat insects, or parasitize trees, 
or grow aerial roots that hang from its branches and extract 
excess water from the air. It has pretty flowers, but not huge, 
fly-trapping ones like the gigantea’s. It’s a shrub. It’s one of 
those plants that most ecologists don’t pay attention to.

So, why study it? Because Donoghue likes it and has 
since he was an undergraduate. Because Viburnum isn’t an 
extraordinary genus, so insights into its ancestry and genetic 
makeup translate into insights about many other plants. 
But most of all, because the more you look at something—
even an unremarkable something, such as Viburnum—the 
more interesting it becomes.

Miranda Sinnott-Armstrong has also studied Viburnum 
for six years. She’s one of Donoghue’s current graduate stu­
dents. “In some ways,” she told me, “Viburnum is interest­
ing precisely because it’s not that interesting.”

“Michael Donoghue” is a household name in the world 
of evolutionary biology. Look that name up on Google, 
and you’ll find a laundry list of awards, membership in two 
national academies, and a Sterling Professorship at Yale. 
Look that name up on Google Scholar, and you’ll find a 
list of over 250 scientific papers, some of which have been 
cited thousands of times. But if you page through that list of 
papers, ranked by number of citations, you won’t find one 
about Viburnum until the ninety-second entry.

 “Michael’s work in Viburnum isn’t well-known,” Erika 
Edwards told me. “That’s not what he’s famous for.” 


 21
Edwards was one of Donoghue’s graduate students from 
2000-2005; she is now his chief collaborator. She also 
studies Viburnum. Like Donoghue, she’s better known for 
her work in other fields. Both of them hope that, one day, 
Viburnum will be so well-understood that it will become a 
model for evolutionary biology: a completely solved prob­
lem, a genus with a perfectly charted ancestry. Maybe then 
people will pay attention to it. After all, Gregor Mendel’s 
peas were just unremarkable garden plants for most of his 
life, and his experiments were just the hobby of a friar who 
had too much time on his hands. Until those peas provided 
evidence for recessive and dominant traits, that is. Until 
that friar became the father of modern genetics.

“Viburnum is almost never cited, except by people like 
us. And we cite ourselves,” Donoghue told me. “I’m not 
doing the Viburnum thing to be popular. Nobody cares 
about Viburnum papers. But we’re going to make Vibur­
num famous.”

One afternoon in September, I joined Donoghue in his 
office: a spacious white room with desks cluttered by spec­
imens and walls covered by floral sketches. He handed me 
an old photograph that showed a middle-aged professor, 
four graduate students, and a younger, long-haired Dono­
ghue. They were standing and smiling together, shin-deep 
in a forest stream. “Most people can’t trace their career 
to one particular incident,” Donoghue said, leaning back 
from the table and smiling. “But I can.”

The Donoghue of this portrait was discovering, to his 
own surprise, that he was scientifically inclined. Ever since 
graduating from high school, this young Donoghue had 
travelled and camped across the country. He had hiked 
through the Canadian Rockies and spent three months 
fighting forest fires. He had drifted up to Alaska and spent a 
few months on Vancouver Island. He had seen most of the 
states. (Later in life, he would see them all.) And he had 
spent almost no time thinking about further education. In 
high school he had a strong aversion to science; after high 
school he had a mistrust of universities. “Back then,” Dono­
ghue told me, “I had no intention of going to college.”

Eventually the young Donoghue drifted back home to 
Michigan, where he decided, on a whim, to take a few 
classes at Michigan State. He liked being outdoors, and 
while traveling he’d read Darwin’s On the Origin of Spe­
cies. So he enrolled in courses in biology and plant taxon­
omy, developed a fast rapport with a geography professor, 
and found himself accompanying that professor on a field 
trip to the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. There, 
in a cold forest at the top of one of the highest peaks in the 
Appalachians, he was captivated by an odd-looking shrub. 
The year was 1972. The shrub was a species of Viburnum.

Donoghue graduated from Michigan State, earned his 
PhD from Harvard in 1982, then drifted from university 
to university until finally settling at Yale in 2000. He was 
director of the Peabody Museum from 2003-2008, has been 
a Sterling professor since 2011, and is widely recognized as 
the world’s leading expert on Viburnum. As an evolutionary 
biologist, he tries to understand how physical characteris­
tics of plants evolved over time. Unfortunately, most plants 
have poor fossil records. It’s often impossible to find mil­
lion-year-old specimens, extract their DNA, and figure out 
how today’s species evolved from them. So instead, Dono­
ghue compares the DNA of modern plants, looks for simi­
larities, and tries to infer the past from the present.

Take leaf shape. Donoghue’s most recent research paper, 
titled “Leaf Form Evolution in Viburnum Parallels Vari­
ation within Individual Plants,” looks at the different leaf 
shapes of various Viburnum species and tries to explain 
why, and how, those different shapes emerged. The paper’s 
hard to follow if you’re not comfortable with words such 
as “heteroblasty,” “phylogeny,” and “phenotypic plasticity.” 
But Donoghue is happy to translate. The paper, he told me, 
is trying to answer a simple question. “Why do plants have 
so many different kinds of leaves?”

The scientist looked at me expectantly, as if he was wait­
ing for an answer. On the table, he had spread ten dark 
crimson leaves, each of them dried and pressed into dis­
play frames as if they were butterflies framed in glass. Some 
were long and smooth like the leaves of a willow, others 
were serrated like an elm’s, a few were lobed like a maple’s, 
and one was small and round like a young dogwood’s. They 
were all from species of Viburnum.

“Is there a simple answer to that question?” I finally 
asked, a little hesitantly.

“No, unfortunately there’s not,” Donoghue said, laugh­
ing. There are partial answers: theories that apply to par­
ticular species or environments. Donoghue advances one 
of these answers in his most recent paper. He hopes some­
day to find a larger Answer: one that applies to all species 
of Viburnum. Such an Answer is still far off, but maybe 
one day Donoghue and Edwards and Sinnott-Armstrong 
will find it. And once they have found it, maybe another 
Answer—one that applies to all plants, not merely Vibur­
num—will follow.

It’s as if he’s handed you a pair of del­
icate glasses, and when you put them 
on you realize that the natural world 
has always been out-of-focus.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Henry Reichard**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
We were in the greenhouse. It was humid and warm 
and so green that you could hardly bear to look at it, and 
Donoghue was walking back from the microscopes in the 
far room carrying a magnolia bloom. The bloom was small 
and olive green in his wrinkled hand, like a pea pod, and 
he held it gently. The students were already leaving their 
sketchbooks, starting to gather round.

“You’ll all want to watch this,” Donoghue said to them. 
He was standing in the front and holding the tiny bloom 
aloft. Everyone stared at him in quiet intensity. “You nor­
mally use a scalpel to dissect a flower, but for this you’ll 
want to just use your hands. Now watch closely what I do.”

Donoghue pinched the bloom and began to pull. Little 
green flakes came away. He was peeling it like an onion, 
and it came undone in tiny green layers. The students 
watched around him.

“I haven’t really done anything important yet,” Donoghue 
once told me. “I’ve just looked at a lot of plants. Maybe one 
of these days I’ll do something.”

The outer layer of the magnolia lay in flakes on the floor. 
Inside, the flower was as green as grass in spring. Tiny stalks 
curled inward. “These are the stamens,” Donoghue said. 
He pulled one away and looked at it. It was thinner than 
a needle.

“You know, I’ve chosen in the last decade or so to spend a 
lot of time—an inordinate amount of time—studying these 
particular plants. And people might say, ‘Why do you keep 
studying that same plant?’ And the answer is, ‘Because it 
gets more and more interesting!’ The more I learn, the more I 
can’t resist the next question.”

“And then we can go deeper,” Donoghue said, dropping 
the stamen. He applied himself again to the bud, removing 
the stamens and then, with a lover’s lightness, peeling tiny 
green flakes away from the center. The class watched in 
silence. The magnolia was now smaller than a thimble.

“I could tell you a good story about why this leaf looks like 
this and that leaf looks like that. But that’s not the deep mes­
sage. The deep message is dig deeper, and you’ll find more 
and more. Just keep digging.”

Donoghue peeled off the last green flake. At the cen­
ter of the magnolia, there was a tiny stalk of darkest green. 
Donoghue named it the carpel and held it aloft. He told 
the class they should try to draw it. It was the ovary of the 
flower.



**Title: Until It Cracks**
**Author: Mariah Kreutter**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

“Pick one that doesn’t say ‘Made in China,’ 
Mariah,” my mother says, the words clipped 
as usual, but drawn out by a Georgia drawl. 
(You wouldn’t think a drawl could be clipped, 
but my mother, in this as in so many things, 
defies expectations.) She always drawls when 
Grandmama visits. Actually, it doesn’t even 
take that much. Once when we were driving 
through acres and acres of some valley some­
where in Kentucky on some black November 
night, the only light coming from the GPS, she 
turned on the radio and heard a few chords of 
country music (just the guitar, not even any­
one singing), and when she spoke next, she 
could’ve been eighteen again. She could’ve 
never left Bostwick, population 372 plus cows, 
best known for its annual cotton gin festival 
and as the town where they filmed My Cousin 
Vinny. I can’t even remember what she said. I 
just know she spoke with the full weight of the 
American South, and it echoed in the silence 
of that Kentucky road as we drove in the dark 
towards Nashville.

But today we’re not in the South. We’re in a 
TJ Maxx in suburban New Jersey, surrounded 
by discounted Michael Kors bags and overea­
ger Thanksgiving decorations. Grandmama’s 
staying with us. It’s the last time she’ll see me 
before I start college, and I’m supposed to 
choose a mug.

Most of them do, in fact, say “Made in 
China,” which my mother — who at heart is 
both an isolationist and a socialist, though with 
enough common sense to vote for Hillary — 
vetoes. Grandmama, who will later vote for 
Trump, agrees with this decision. In the end, I 
choose one with “Made in Portugal” stamped 
on the bottom in a pixelated font. It’s unusu­
ally large and shallow, so it can be used for 
late-night cereal or Easy Mac as well as coffee 
or tea. It has a bluebird printed on it in a faux 
rustic design.

Mom grabs one of the same for herself in 
an uncharacteristic show of sentimental­
ity. Grandmama pays, and as we’re walking 
through the parking lot she chastises herself 
for not getting one too. She debates going 
back, but in a show of dairy farm practicality 
and Southern unflappability, decides against 
it—she doesn’t need another mug. Therefore, 
what could have been an intergenerational 
symbol of female familial ties doesn’t quite 
materialize: the circle is broken, the edges 
can’t hold.

I take the mug with me to Yale and drink 
shitty dorm coffee out of it. It is the first piece 
of kitchenware that belongs, specifically, to 
me, which I don’t think about until junior 
year, when I move into an apartment off cam­
pus with two friends. We all pool dishes we’ve 
cribbed off our parents: Molly a frying pan, 
Harrison a bread knife. The bluebird mug 
becomes one of many, lost among the shat­
terproofs from Target and the sandy clay ones 
from my mom. I still think of the bird mug as 
mine only, though. Not in a territorial way — 
it just always has been.

But, like everything else in our kitchen, 
it’s absorbed into the communal sprawl soon 
enough. We’re bad about doing our dishes. 
Mugs are always scarce. So it’s not surprising, 
one day, when I walk past Harrison’s room and 
see the bird mug perched next to his bed. It’s 
half full of the lemon-honey-cayenne sludge 
we’ve all been drinking lately to ward off a 
cold. His bed is unmade; there’s a chalk draw­
ing of his grandmother leaning against a wall. 
I feel like I’m spying. The mug might be mine, 
but the context is not.

I don’t know why seeing the mug in Harri­
son’s room makes me sad, but it does. It makes 
me think of how Harrison doesn’t know the 
history of the mug and Mom and Grandmama 
don’t know the history of Harrison, and I could 
try and explain each to the other, but at a cer­
tain point none of it would matter because 
I’m past the point where anyone can know 
my whole life story. I think about the life I’m 
living now — Yale and Connecticut and art 
major roommates and drinking until I throw 
up on weekends and writing stories about sec­
ular angels in classes taught by famous nov­
elists — and how it isn’t anything (anything!) 
my grandmother would recognize. My mom 
can imagine it, but that’s all: she can imagine. 
Everything is fragmented. Nothing is whole.

Here’s a way to drive yourself crazy: if your 
middle school self had braces and zits and an 
anime phase, but none of your college friends 
were around to see it, does it make a sound? 
Let’s try another one. If I met my grandmother 
when she was my age, a history major at the 
University of Georgia who transferred after she 
found the Baptist college too morally loose for 
her tastes (did she prefer sin out in the open, 
where she could judge it? I guess that’s bet­



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Mariah Kreutter**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 25
OCTOBER 2018
ter than hypocrisy), would we have hated each 
other? Surely we couldn’t have been friends. 
Or maybe this is my own failure of imagina­
tion: I cannot construct for myself any version 
of Grandmama’s inner life. If I try (and I admit, 
I rarely try) I end up banging my head against a 
metaphorical wall—one somehow shaped like 
both a Bible and a piece of fried cube steak.

And then what about my mom? If I try to 
write about her she’ll overwhelm this essay. If I 
try to write about her, then I’ll be writing about 
everything, because everything I write is at least 
a little bit about her, because her young adult­
hood should have looked a lot more like mine 
and her life is the story of the many reasons 
why it didn’t. Most of the reasons can be traced 
to growing up in a small town before the Inter­
net. What prevented her from leaving Geor­
gia more intentionally, from studying English 
or film or spending her twenties meandering 
through a career without a husband or kids, 
was not so much any particular hardship as the 
stunted imagination that flourishes in small 
towns like Bostwick. I wonder if she ever uses 
her bluebird mug. If she does, I haven’t seen it.

I think about who I would have been if 
my parents had stayed in rural Georgia. We 
could’ve lived down the road from the white 
farmhouse where my mother and several gen­
erations before her grew up. I could’ve grown 
up there too: playing with the feral cats in the 
disused milking barn, chasing lizards and kill­
ing fire ants, picking figs off Grandmama’s 
monstrous fig tree and reading in the shadow 
of the ruined grain silo. I don’t recognize this 
other Mariah. (At the very least, she bleaches 
her hair). I wonder if she would have ended up 
where and who I am all the same, or if — as I 
suspect — she’s another fragment, the product 
of a speciation event that took place long before 
I was born, a case of evolution most divergent. 
Maybe she’d have a whole flock of bird mugs 
and a sign in her room that says ‘Live Love 
Laugh.’ Or maybe I’m being an elitist prick.

I just think we’re all split at some kind of 
– Mariah Kreutter is a junior
in Berkeley College.


**Title: SNAPSHOT: BIAS IN BLUE**
**Author: Laura Glesby**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

--- Page 26 ---

S N A P S H O T
Bringing forth new allegations, Black students and New Haven residents say that Yale’s police 
presence has threatened their sense of safety and belonging.
 26
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
A
round two o’clock in the morning, on May 
8, Lolade Siyonbola woke up from a nap. Siy­
onbola, a Black graduate student who lived in Yale’s 
Hall of Graduate Studies, had fallen asleep on a couch 
in a common room while working on a paper. When 
Siyonbola woke up, Sarah Braasch, a white graduate 
student who also lived in the building, confronted 
her. Braasch hadn’t recognized Siyonbola, and called 
the police on her while she was sleeping. As captured 
by Siyonbola’s video recording of their conversation, 
Braach intoned, as if disciplining a child, “I have 
every right to call the police,” nodding her head as she 
spoke. “You cannot sleep in that room,” she explained. 
On her phone, she snapped pictures of Siyonbola.
“Continue,” Siyonbola told her quietly. “Continue. 
Get my good side.” It took the Yale Police Department 
only five minutes to reach the building.

Following YPD protocol, the two officers who 
arrived initially asked Siyonbola to provide her stu­
dent ID. After she demonstrated that she could open 
the door to her apartment with her keys, the officers 
continued to press her for her ID. She relented, hand­
ing them her wallet. Upstairs, a third officer also 
checked Braasch’s identification. But with Siyonbola, 
a problem arose that took fifteen minutes to sort out; 
the name on her ID was a nickname, Lolade, which 
didn’t match her legal name in the Yale Police’s data­
base, Ololade. “I deserve to be here,” Siyonbola told 
the officers as she waited for them to allow her to go. 
“I paid tuition like everybody else. I am not going to 
justify my existence here.”

Over the course of a few days, Siyonbola’s video 
recording of the incident garnered over 1.5 million 
views on Facebook Live. National news outlets from 
CNN to The New York Times reported on the story. 
Jean-Louis Reneson, another Black graduate stu­
dent, posted on Facebook that Braasch had called the 
police on him three months before, when he was lost 
in HGS and had tried to ask her for directions. Four 
police officers arrived in response to that call, and left 
upon realizing that Reneson was a student. Reneson 
declined to comment for this article, and Siyonbola did 
not respond to multiple requests for comment. After 
Siyonbola posted the video online, a petition calling 
for Braasch’s removal from the Graduate School of 
Arts and Sciences gathered 3,000 signatures; Braasch 
remains a student at Yale. President Peter Salovey, 
Yale College Dean Marvin Chun, and Secretary and 
Vice President for Student Life Kimberly Goff-Crews 
sent out University-wide emails in which a series of 
meetings and “listening sessions” with students were 
promised and commitments to diversity and inclusion 
were renewed. The event became so infamous that 
students still refer to it as “what happened at HGS.”

The HGS encounter is one of several accounts of 
biased policing brought forth by students and New 
Haven community members in recent years. This piece 
reports two new sets of allegations—one at GPSCY, 
Yale’s grad student bar; the other at an off-campus 
venue—not previously covered in the media. These 
events raise questions about the role of the police on 
Yale’s campus. When does policing at Yale draw a 
boundary between those who are presumed to belong 
on campus and those who aren’t? How far should the 
YPD go to enforce borders between Yale and the sur­
rounding city? When is a 911 call a plea for safety, and 
when is it a method of exclusion?

***
In the middle of the night on January 11, 1824, 
someone—likely a Yale student—seized the body of 
Batsheba Smith, the deceased daughter of a farmer, 
from her West Haven grave. The thief stowed the body 
on the floor of the Yale Medical College cellar, fold­
ing her corpse so it would look like a pile of clothes. 
When the New Haven constable discovered the body 
and news got around, six hundred outraged citizens 
gathered in front of the Medical College building, 
armed with weapons and stones. “Tear down the Col­
lege,” they chanted, until city guards stepped in and 
arrested some of the rioters.

As Yale’s website tells the story, this riot was the rea­
son the city assigned two New Haven Police officers, 
Bill Wiser and Jim Donnelly, to regularly patrol the 
campus. The University later hired Wiser and Don­
nelly, making them the inaugural officers of the first 
private university police force in the nation.

It’s unclear whether the riot was actually the cata­
lyst for the formation of the YPD, as Wiser and Don­
nelly weren’t assigned to police Yale until 1894—a 
good seventy years after the body-snatching incident. 
Yet the riot perhaps exemplified the rocky relation­
ship between the school and the city that led to the 
Department’s founding. In his autobiography, Wiser 


--- Page 27 ---

 27
vide access to their records and files when asked. The 
Department denied their request, citing a need to pre­
serve the privacy of the students involved under the 
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, as well as 
a legal exception that allows them to withhold mate­
rials related to “uncorroborated allegations.” Had Siy­
onbola not recorded the HGS incident on her phone, 
no evidence corroborating her experience would have 
been publicly accessible.

In fact, as the Independent reported, the YPD has a 
history of denying FOIA requests, bringing forth ques­
tions about the transparency the public can expect 
from a private police force. In 2007, the Department 
rejected the FOIA request of a lawyer, Janet Perrotti, 
whose client claimed to have been racially profiled 
by an officer. At the time, the Yale Police claimed 
that as a private police force, it was not subject to 
FOIA at all. The Connecticut Freedom of Informa­
tion Commission (FOIC) sided with Perrotti. If the 
Department could arrest people and put them in jail, 
the Commission concluded, it should have to disclose 
requested materials to the public under FOIA.

But the following year, after the Yale Police union 
requested that the Department disclose the salaries of 
top officials, the FOIC ruled that the Department did 
not resemble a public agency in its financial opera­
tions, and thus did not need to disclose that informa­
tion. Similar legal battles over whether FOIA applies 
to private university police forces have occurred in 
recent years at universities across the country, includ­
ing Harvard and Notre Dame.

Yale Police Chief Ronnell Higgins calls the YPD “a 
private entity with a public purpose.” In this respect, 
the YPD is similar to a private prison, or a charter 
school. And like these kinds of institutions, it faces 
the challenge of balancing the interests of its private 
organization with its obligations to the public.

Today, the Yale Police force has grown to nine­
ty-three officers. It works alongside a Yale Security 
team, which, according to Yale’s website, “serves as 
the eyes and ears of the YPD” inside buildings and 
parking lots. Today, when someone dials 911 from 
an on-campus location, the phone call routes to the 
YPD. According to Chief Higgins, the YPD and the 
NHPD frequently collaborate; their detectives confer 
on major investigations, their patrol routes overlap, 
and they route calls to each other. Sometimes, officers 
from each department will respond to a call together. 
YPD officers walk, bike, and drive along “beats,” or 
patrol routes, both within the campus boundaries and 
in areas adjacent to campus.

Since Yale’s recent expansion into the Dixwell 
neighborhood with the opening of Benjamin Frank­
lin and Pauli Murray colleges in 2017, Jeannia Fu, a 
student at the School of Public Health, has noticed 
an increased police presence in the area. Fu, who is 
Asian, has straight, cropped hair and speaks in a level, 
earnest tone. She has lived in New Haven for nine 
wrote that he and Donnelly were appointed to police 
Yale because “many stories were told of the trou­
bles and fights between the students on the one side 
and the city police and citizens on the other.” Wiser 
and Donnelly’s primary role was to defend Yale stu­
dents from their neighbors, rather than the other way 
around. “As outlined by the police,” he wrote, “our 
duties were to protect the students, their property, and 
all college property from injury.” According to Wiser, 
intruders had been wandering onto university land 
and stealing students’ belongings. Early in his posi­
tion at the university, Wiser found himself kicking 
“tramps” out of the basements and forcing a “colored 
gentleman” to leave one of the building entrances. 
“The first thing to do, it seemed to us,” he wrote, “was 
to keep all suspicious characters from the campus.”

Yale students initially regarded Wiser and Don­
nelly with mistrust, regarding them as outsiders and 
discplinarians. Yet the officers managed to endear 
themselves to the community. They taught students 
to sew on buttons and counseled them through peri­
ods of homesickness. In time, they were given lodg­
ing in campus dorms. As Wiser tells it, the pair grew 
so attached to the College that when the city police 
department sought to reassign them to a different 
post, Wiser and Donnelly quit and were subsequently 
appointed by the University as “special constables,” 
now private employees.

For decades, the Yale Police Department remained 
relatively small. But in the 1960s and ’70s, student 
protests erupted across the country as part of the Civil 
Rights Movement and the flurry of activism against 
the Vietnam War. In response, more and more univer­
sities began to form their own police departments, hir­
ing officers who were trained to interact with college 
students. By 2012, according to the Bureau of Justice 
Statistics, 75 percent of over nine hundred four-
year colleges surveyed across the country employed 
an armed police force. 86 percent of campus police 
officers had the power to arrest in regions beyond the 
campus borders.

In the ’70s, Yale expanded its force and tightened 
its training programs and standards for officers. At 
first, the University attempted to downplay the YPD’s 
status as a police force; officers utilized unmarked 
cars and wore suits as uniforms. John W. Powell, a 
campus security consultant who served as Director of 
Security and Associate Dean of Students from 1960 to 
1968, described the Department’s transition to blue 
uniforms that more closely resembled city police offi­
cers’ attire, mimicking the NHPD so as to project an 
image of safety and deter crime.

Appearances aside, important distinctions remain 
between the YPD and its New Haven counterpart. On 
May 16 of this year, the New Haven Independent wrote 
that it had filed a request for the YPD’s body-camera 
footage of the Hall of Graduate Studies incident in 
May under the Connecticut Freedom of Information 
Act (FOIA), which requires all public agencies to pro-



**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Around two o’clock in the morning, on May 8, Lolade 
Siyonbola woke up from a nap. Siyonbola, a Black gradu­
ate student who lived in Yale’s Hall of Graduate Studies, 
had fallen asleep on a couch in a common room while 
working on a paper. When Siyonbola woke up, Sarah 
Braasch, a white graduate student who also lived in the 
building, confronted her. Braasch hadn’t recognized Siy­
onbola, and called the police on her while she was sleep­
ing. As captured by Siyonbola’s video recording of their 
conversation, Brach intoned, as if disciplining a child, “I 
have every right to call the police,” nodding her head as 
she spoke. “You cannot sleep in that room,” she explained. 
She snapped pictures of Siyonbola on her phone.


“Continue,” Siyonbola told her quietly. “Continue. Get 
my good side.” It took the Yale Police Department only five 
minutes to reach the building.


Following YPD protocol, the two officers who arrived 
initially asked Siyonbola to provide her student ID. After 
she demonstrated that she could open the door to her 
apartment with her keys, the officers continued to press 
her for her ID. She relented, handing them her wallet. 
Upstairs, a third officer also checked Braasch’s identifica­
tion. But with Siyonbola, a problem arose that took fifteen 
minutes to sort out; the name on her ID was a nickname, 
Lolade, which didn’t match her legal name in the Yale 
Police’s database, Ololade. “I deserve to be here,” Siy­
onbola told the officers as she waited for them to allow her 
to go. “I paid tuition like everybody else. I am not going to 
justify my existence here.”


Over the course of a few days, Siyonbola’s video record­
ing of the incident garnered over 1.5 million views on 
Facebook Live. National news outlets from CNN to The 
New York Times reported on the story. Jean-Louis Rene­
son, another Black graduate student, posted on Facebook 
that Braasch had called the police on him three months 
before, when he was lost in HGS and had tried to ask her 
for directions. Four police officers arrived in response to 
that call, and left upon realizing that Reneson was a stu­
dent. Reneson declined to comment for this article, and 
Siyonbola did not respond to multiple requests for com­
ment. After Siyonbola posted the video online, a petition 
calling for Braasch’s removal from the Graduate School 
of Arts and Sciences gathered 3,000 signatures; Braasch 
remains a student at Yale. President Peter Salovey, Yale 
College Dean Marvin Chun, and Secretary and Vice 
President for Student Life Kimberly Goff-Crews sent out 
University-wide emails in which a series of meetings and 
“listening sessions” with students were promised and com­
mitments to diversity and inclusion were renewed. The 
event became so infamous that students still refer to it as 
“what happened at HGS.”


The HGS encounter is one of several accounts of biased 
policing brought forth by students and New Haven com­
munity members in recent years. This piece reports two 
new sets of allegations — one at GPSCY, Yale’s grad stu­
dent bar; the other at an off-campus venue — not previ­
ously covered in the media. These events raise questions 
about the role of the police on Yale’s campus. When does 
policing at Yale draw a boundary between those who are 
presumed to belong on campus and those who aren’t? How 
far should the YPD go to enforce borders between Yale and 
the surrounding city? When is a 911 call a plea for safety, 
and when is it a method of exclusion?


***


In the middle of the night on January 11, 1824, some­
one—likely a Yale student—seized the body of Batsheba 
Smith, the deceased daughter of a farmer, from her West 
Haven grave. The thief stowed the body on the floor of the 
Yale Medical College cellar, folding her corpse so it would 
look like a pile of clothes. When the New Haven consta­
ble discovered the body and news got around, six hundred 
outraged citizens gathered in front of the Medical College 
building, armed with weapons and stones. “Tear down the 
College,” they chanted, until city guards stepped in and 
arrested some of the rioters.


As Yale’s website tells the story, this riot was the reason 
the city assigned two New Haven Police officers, Bill Wiser 
and Jim Donnelly, to regularly patrol the campus. The Uni­
versity later hired Wiser and Donnelly, making them the 
inaugural officers of the first private university police force 
in the nation.


It’s unclear whether the riot was actually the cause of 
the start of the Yale Police, as Wiser and Donnelly weren’t 
assigned to police Yale until 1894 – a good seventy years 
after the body-snatching incident. Yet the riot perhaps 
exemplified the rocky relationship between the school and 
the city that led to the department’s founding. In his autobi­
ography, Wiser wrote that he and Donnelly were appointed 
to police Yale because “many stories were told of the trou­
bles and fights between the students on the one side and 
the city police and citizens on the other.” Wiser and Don­
nelly’s primary role was to defend Yale students from their 
neighbors, rather than the other way around. “As outlined 
by the police,” he wrote, “our duties were to protect the stu­
dents, their property, and all college property from injury.” 
According to Wiser, intruders had been wandering onto 
university land and stealing students’ belongings. Early in 
his position at the university, Wiser found himself kicking 
“tramps” out of the basements and forcing a “colored gen­
tleman” to leave one of the building entrances. “The first 
thing to do, it seemed to us,” he wrote, “was to keep all 
suspicious characters from the campus.”


Yale students initially regarded Wiser and Donnelly 
with mistrust, regarding them as outsiders and discplinar­
ians. Yet the officers managed to endear themselves to the 
community. They taught students to sew on buttons and 
counseled them through periods of homesickness. In time, 
they were given lodging in campus dorms. As Wiser tells 
it, the pair grew so attached to the college that when the 
city police department sought to reassign them to a differ­
ent post, Wiser and Donnelly quit and were subsequently 
appointed by the University as “special constables,” now 
private employees.


For decades, the Yale Police Department remained 
relatively small. But in the 1960s and ’70s, student pro­
tests erupted across the country as part of the Civil Rights 
Movement and the flurry of activism against the Vietnam 
War. In response, more and more universities began to 
form their own police departments, hiring officers who 
were trained to interact with college students. By 2012, 
according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, 75 percent 
of over 900 four-year colleges surveyed across the country 
employed an armed police force. 86 percent of campus 
police officers had the power to arrest in regions beyond 
the campus borders.


In the ’70s, Yale expanded its force and tightened its 
training programs and standards for officers. At first, the 
university attempted to downplay the YPD’s status as a 
police force; officers utilized unmarked cars and wore suits 
as uniforms. John W. Powell, a campus security consultant 
who served as Director of Security and Associate Dean of 
Students from 1960 to 1968, described the department’s 
transition to blue uniforms that more closely resembled 
city police officers’ attire, mimicking the NHPD so as to 
project an image of safety and deter crime.


Appearances aside, important distinctions remain 
between the Yale Police Department and its New Haven 
counterpart. On May 16 of this year, the New Haven Inde­
pendent wrote that it had filed a request for the Yale Police 
Department’s body-camera footage of the Hall of Graduate 
Studies incident in May under the Connecticut Freedom 
of Information Act (FOIA), which requires all public agen­
cies to provide access to their records and files when asked. 
The Department denied their request, citing a need to pre­
serve the privacy of the students involved under the Fam­
ily Educational Rights and Privacy Act, as well as a legal 
exception that allows them to withhold materials related to 
“uncorroborated allegations.” Had Siyonbola not recorded 
the HGS incident on her phone, no evidence corroborat­
ing her experience would have been publicly accessible.


In fact, as the Independent reported, the YPD has a 
history of denying FOIA requests, bringing forth ques­
tions about the transparency the public can expect from 
a private police force. In 2007, the Department rejected 
the FOIA request of a lawyer, Janet Perrotti, whose client 
claimed to have been racially profiled by an officer. At 
the time, the Yale Police claimed that as a private police 
force, it was not subject to FOIA at all. The Connecticut 
Freedom of Information Commission (FOIC) sided with 
Perrotti. If the Department could arrest people and put 
them in jail, the Commission concluded, it should have 
to disclose requested materials to the public under FOIA.


But the following year, after the Yale Police union 
requested that the Department disclose the salaries of top 
officials, the FOIC ruled that the Department did not 
resemble a public agency in its financial operations, and 
thus did not need to disclose that information. Similar legal 
battles over whether FOIA applies to private university 
police forces have occurred in recent years at universities 
across the country, including Harvard and Notre Dame.


Yale Police Chief Ronnell Higgins calls the Yale Police 
Department “a private entity with a public purpose.” In 
this respect, the Yale Police Department is similar to a pri­
vate prison, or a charter school. And like these kinds of 
institutions, it faces the challenge of balancing the inter­
ests of its private organization with its obligations to the 
public.




Today, the Yale Police force has grown to 93 officers. It 
works alongside a Yale Security team, which, according 
to Yale’s website, “serves as the eyes and ears of the YPD” 
inside buildings and parking lots. Today, when someone 
dials 911 from an on-campus location, the phone call 
routes to the Yale Police Department. According to Chief 
Higgins, the YPD and the NHPD frequently collaborate; 
their detectives confer on major investigations, their patrol 
routes overlap, and they route calls to each other. Some­
times, officers from both departments will respond to a call 
together. YPD officers walk, bike, and drive along “beats,” 
or patrol routes, both within the campus boundaries and in 
areas adjacent to campus.


Since Yale’s recent expansion into the Dixwell neigh­
borhood with the opening of Benjamin Franklin and 
Pauli Murray colleges in 2017, Jeannia Fu, a student at 
the School of Public Health, has noticed an increased 
police presence in the area. Fu, who is Asian, has straight, 
cropped hair and speaks in a level, earnest tone. She has 
lived in New Haven for nine years and has been involved in 
activism against police brutality since a Bridgeport police 
officer fatally shot teenager Jayson Negron in May 2017.


Last spring, Fu and a friend, Amy Smoyer, an assistant 
professor at Southern Connecticut State University, saw 
three Yale officers talking to a group of Black boys, who 
she guesses were around 10 years old, along the bike path 
that runs between Pauli Murray and Yale Health. Fu said 
that as she walked up to them, the officers were taking 
down the boys’ names. Fu asked if the boys were all right. 
“They looked scared and didn’t say anything,” she said. 
years and has been involved in activism against police 
brutality since a Bridgeport police officer fatally shot 
teenager Jayson Negron in May 2017.
Last spring, Fu and a friend, Amy Smoyer, an Assis­
tant Professor at Southern Connecticut State Univer­
sity, saw three Yale officers talking to a group of Black 
boys, who she guesses were around 10 years old, along 
the bike path that runs between Pauli Murray and 
Yale Health. Fu said that as she walked up to them, 
the officers were taking down the boys’ names. Fu 
asked if the boys were all right. “They looked scared 
and didn’t say anything,” she said. While Smoyer was 
not close enough to hear the conversation between 
Fu and the officers, she confirmed the general details 
of Fu’s account.
Fu recalled that one of the officers asked her to step 
aside in an “agitated tone.” The officer instructed her 
not to speak to the kids, claiming that she was “incit­
ing them to push back,” Fu says. She remembers the 
officer mentioning that this was part of an “investiga­
tion.” The boys later explained to Fu that a Yale Secu­
rity officer had called the police on the kids.
Fu approached a security officer stationed nearby. 
The officer confirmed that she had been the one to 
call the police. When Fu inquired why she had called 
the police, the security officer, who is white, answered, 
“You know, these kids around these rough spots, you 
gotta teach them how to behave.” Fu remembered 
responding that she thought the officer was “racist,” at 
which point the officer grew angry and threatened to 
file a harassment complaint against her.
Later on, Fu wrote about the incident on her Face­
book page, encouraging those who were concerned to 
email Higgins directly. In a statement posted on the 
YPD’s Facebook page, which named Fu directly, Hig­
gins said that the emails he received were “derogatory 
and, in some cases, inflammatory.” Higgins asserted 
that there was “absolutely no racism in this situation, 
certainly not on the part of Yale police.” Higgins 
explained that the police were called because the kids 
were trying to enter one of the colleges, yet maintained 
that the officers spoke “politely and respectfully” to 
the kids. He noted that one of the officers recognized 
the kids, and that one of the kids remembered see­
ing the officer handing out Rice Krispie Treats over 
the summer. “As a proud resident of New Haven, as 
a police chief, and as an African-American, I am all 
too familiar with racism and how quickly hatred can 
spread—particularly on social media,” Higgins wrote.
From Fu’s perspective, the encounter exemplified a 
broader pattern of policing New Haven residents. She 
considers the Yale Police to be a mechanism by which 
Yale has gentrified New Haven. As Yale expands, it 
displaces New Haven residents, she says, and the 
YPD’s presence enforces the newly-drawn campus 
boundaries. “I think there was a lesson being taught 
that day about who can belong where,” she says of the 
encounter by the Benjamin Franklin gate.
“I deserve to be here,” Siyonbola told the 
officers. “I paid tuition like everybody else. 
I am not going to justify my existence here.”
Ronnell Higgins, Chief of the YPD, grew up in 
New Haven. His father was an NHPD officer, and 
encouraged him to pursue a career with the Yale 
Police. After serving as a corrections officer at Bridge­
port Correctional Facility, Higgins joined the Yale 
Police in 1997, and became Chief in 2011. He is now 
in his forties. As Janet Lindner, Yale’s Associate Vice 
President for Administration at the time, told the Yale 
Daily News, the Yale Police Chief hiring committee 
appreciated Higgins’ background as a longtime city 
resident. Higgins has prioritized a model of “commu­
nity policing” during his tenure as Chief, seeking to 
build ties between YPD officers and both the Yale and 
New Haven communities.
Higgins speaks in a steady, deep voice, and wears 
rectangular tortoiseshell glasses. His schedule is 
packed; after four months of attempts to schedule 
an interview, he agreed to speak with me for a total 
of fifteen minutes. We met in a conference room at 
the Office of Public Affairs and Communications on 
the corner of Whitney and Grove, at a long table that 
could seat at least sixteen people. We were joined only 
by Karen Peart, Yale’s Director of External Communi­
cations. A cardboard cutout of Handsome Dan, Yale’s 
bulldog mascot, greeted the waiting room sofas on the 
other side of a glass wall.
Higgins said that in the aftermath of the HGS inci­
dent, members of the Yale community have increas­
ingly voiced concerns to him about a perceived 
disconnect between Yale Police officers and the com­
munities they serve. “The reality is that we do a lot on 
and off campus,” Higgins said, referring to commu­
nity outreach. “It was troubling to me that people said 
that we could be doing more. People were astounded 
when they heard what our officers were doing.”
According to Higgins, Yale Police officers organize 
blood drives and collect school supply donations. 
They give regular talks at public schools. The Depart­
ment works with the FBI to co-run the Future Law 
Enforcement Youth Academy, which invites 26 high 
schoolers to stay in Yale dormitories for free for a week 
over the summer while learning about crime-fighting 
techniques.
Higgins said that after the HGS incident, one of 
his main priorities is to better publicize the Depart­
ment’s outreach efforts. He recently designated two 
officers to comprise a Community Outreach and 
Engagement Team; the officers will focus full-time on 
strengthening the Yale Police’s relationship with the 
community. In the couple of weeks that the team has 

**Title: OCTOBER 2018**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“A lot of the time,” the female student 
said, “students are being policed because 
they’re presumed to be not from Yale be­
cause they’re Black, and New Haven is 
Black. That’s the assumption.”
graduate students are essential. “During orientation, 
I remember a police officer saying, ‘Don’t go past this 
street,’ or ‘Stay in this area on campus,’ or ‘These parts 
of town might be dangerous,’” she recalled. “That 
trickles down through the graduate population so that 
a lot of times, when Black students come on campus, 
people assume that we are not meant to be there.”
“There are students on campus who are really dep­
utized to police people of color in the area,” she said, 
“and, moreover, who are emboldened and empow­
ered to weaponize the police against students of color 
who they feel don’t belong.”


For some students, calling the police doesn’t feel 
like a viable option. On a Wednesday in October 
2016, during the fall semester of her senior year, 
Chelsey Clark, who graduated from Yale College 
in 2017, went out dancing with two friends at an 
off-campus venue that was reserved for Yale students. 
Clark and both friends identify as Black women. 
When they gathered by the back staircase inside the 
venue, a bouncer approached them and asked them 
to move in what Clark described as a “forceful” tone. 
The three students cleared from the staircase area. 
Then, without warning, the bouncer threw one of 
Clark’s friends to the ground. When Clark protested, 
he slammed her to the floor, too. He seized the friend 
on the ground by the neck and clutched Clark by the 
wrist, and dragged the two of them across the dance 
floor, pulling them outside. The third friend followed 
“screaming,” Clark recalled. As the bouncer dragged 
her out, Clark’s phone and student ID fell out of her 
hand. The sea of dancing people parted to make way, 
many of them watching. No one intervened.
Outside, Clark was shaken but clear-headed, run­
ning on adrenaline. She borrowed someone’s phone 
and called the police to report the altercation. “The 
optic of two Black women being dragged out of a party, 
that really bothered me deep down,” she said. “I know 
that a lot of people must have seen that and thought 
that we were being belligerent and maybe aggres­
sive. And that that’s why we were being removed and 
that the action was justified. And that really, really 
ate at me for a really long time.” Clark called the 
police with these thoughts pulsing through her mind. 
She remembers thinking, “I need proof that I didn’t 
responded to multiple requests for comment.
“A lot of the times,” the female student said, “stu­
dents are being policed because they’re presumed 
to be not from Yale because they’re Black, and New 
Haven is Black. That’s the assumption.”


In the immediate aftermath of Braasch’s call to the 
police in May, a group of graduate students gathered 
to draft an open letter to the Yale administration. The 
letter called for specific reforms towards a more equi­
table campus for Black members of the community, 
and ultimately accumulated about 670 signatures, 
according to one of the letter’s authors. Among other 
requests, the letter asked for the founding of a Title VI 
office dedicated to eliminating racial discrimination 
on campus in compliance with Title VI of the Civil 
Rights Act of 1964. Yale currently has a Title IX office 
devoted to fighting sex and gender discrimination on 
campus, but the university’s resources for community 
members who face racism are decentralized across 
various departments and schools. The administration 
officially encourages students who have experienced 
racial discrimination to either confide in their resi­
dential college dean or dean’s designee, or else to go 
to the Office of Equal Opportunity, which handles 
all kinds of discrimination. On October 9, President 
Salovey sent out a university-wide email introduc­
ing a new website, “Belonging at Yale,” a guide of 
resources for students who have faced harassment and 
discrimination. A few days later, on October 11, Goff-
Crews, the Secretary and Vice-President for Student 
Life, said in a statement to the Yale Daily News that 
the university did not plan to implement a Title VI 
office, but was reviewing the efficacy of the resources 
it already offers.
The students’ open letter also called for a system in 
which Yale Police Officers would respond to non-vi­
olent calls without carrying firearms. When asked 
about this suggestion, Higgins responded, “Highly 
trained, empathetic, armed officers keep everyone 
safe.”
Alexia Williams, a Yale graduate student in the 
African-American Studies and American Studies 
departments who co-authored the open letter, said 
she is concerned about how the YPD’s presence alters 
students’ perceptions of other New Haven residents. 
“I feel that they promote defensiveness between Yale 
students and the New Haven community,” she said.
Williams, along with other graduate and under­
graduate students, attended meetings with admin­
istrators throughout the summer to address some of 
the concerns expressed in the letter. She said the 
administration was largely receptive to listen to stu­
dents’ ideas. In an email to the University in August, 
President Peter Salovey announced that all teaching 
fellows and new graduate students would undergo 
mandatory anti-bias and inclusivity trainings this fall, 
honoring a request that the letter expressed.
For Williams, these required training sessions for 


**Page number(s): 32**

deserve for this to happen to me, and I need people to 
know that this was not fair.”
Three NHPD officers responded to Clark’s call; 
two of them exited the car to speak with Clark and 
the friends she had been with. One of the officers 
was white, and the other was Black. The officers 
responded with “dismissive” words and body language 
and declined to take statements from two witnesses 
who offered to speak to them, Clark said. At one 
point, she asked the officers why they weren’t taking 
the incident seriously. “We were just assaulted,” she 
told them.
“You were not assaulted,” she recalls the white offi­
cer responding.
After that, Clark left, her statement incomplete. 
The police contacted her the next morning in order 
to follow up; she declined to saywhether she pressed 
charges against the bouncer. But the conversation 
with the police officers that night was “the worst part” 
of what happened, Clark said. Clark has long, curly 
hair; when we spoke over Skype, she wore a sweatshirt 
from Princeton University, where she’s now pursing a 
doctorate in psychology. The NHPD did not respond 
to a request for comment.
Clark said she’d always thought of police officers as 
people who would have her back when she needed it. 
But after the altercation with the bouncer, “that just 
totally went away,” she said, “I don’t even want to use 
that resource anymore. And that’s really dangerous, 
because what if something else happens and I don’t 
feel comfortable calling the cops?”
In the months after the violent encounter with 
the bouncer and subsequent conversation with the 
police, Clark said she barely left her apartment out­
side of attending classes. She withdrew from friends 
and had some difficulty focusing on academics. “I 
never would have spoken about this as a student,” 
Clark says. “It’s only now that I’m gone that I’m like, 
‘I don’t really care that much anymore.’ But while I 
was there, the people I went to were SHARE [Yale’s 
Sexual Harrassment and Assault Response & Educa­
tion Center], which is confidential, and the dean of 
my cultural center, and I told her, ‘You can’t tell any­
one, this cannot get out.’ So I think that we just need 
to think about the fact that this could be happening to 
students all the time, and we have no idea.”


Every August, first-year undergraduates, so new to 
Yale they’re still wearing their IDs around their necks, 
convene in Woolsey Hall for a mandatory talk on pub­
lic safety. In past years, they watched a grainy video 
that followed “Lance,” a blonde, white male student 
who neglects to use a U-lock to secure his bicycle 
and lets slip to a man in baggy jeans and a bandana 
that he only carries hundred-dollar bills. “Please 
take a moment to identify with Lance,” the narrator 
instructed viewers at the beginning. All of the actors 
shown in the video are white.
This year, in the aftermath of the HGS scandal, the 


**Page number(s): 33**

 33
It is the first day of autumn. I walk outside, and all the neon in the shops
along York Street has been lit up. It is 6 PM, but the church bells are ringing.
In childhood I lived near a church. I never saw it, but every day I heard the bells
striking the hour at noon and 6 PM. Some days I was inside, the windows shut,
and the bells were muffled, or I missed them, and when I look at the clock
and it was 2 PM, or 7 PM, the sun setting through the trees in the backyard
and making it hard to look out the window over the sink as I washed the dishes,
time felt unreal. In the summer the sun would not set until late, and then when I 
looked at the clock the day was already over. Today the leaves are still green but already
it is cold, alread I picture the end of the season: the limbs of the trees, 
Thanksgiving, Christmas, the warmth of the bed in the morning. Cocooned in the
sheets, waking to my mother turning on the lamp on my desk, its light a soft
halo in the early dark. That was my childhood with the church bells. Someone
on a street corner singing Jacques Brel—


Ne me quitte pas

Il faut oublier

Tout peut s’oublier

Qui s’enfuit déjà—




each word bleeding into the next
like rain streaming down a windowpane. It is the first day of autumn and I am
standing in the middle of York Street unable to move. All of that neon bright in the
half-dark, bright and sad. The bells have stopped. In the shop windows people with
slack faces open their mouths and laugh. Where do we go now? Where do we all go
now?
it is the first day of autumn
p o e m
Oriana Tang
— Oriana Tang is a senior
in Saybrook College.



**FALL 2018 GRADUATE STUDENT SEMINARS IN JUDAIC STUDIES**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
FALL 2018 
GRADUATE STUDENT SEMINARS  
IN  
JUDAIC STUDIES 
PRESENTS: 
Jewish Thought Colloquium 
November 7th , 12:00pm 
Mara Benjamin 
Mount Holyoke College 
CHAIR OF JEWISH STUDIES; IRENE KAPLAN LEIWANT ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR 
OF JEWISH STUDIES  

Medieval  Jewish Studies Workshop 
November 14th, 12:00pm 
David Stern 
Harvard University 
HARRY STARR PROFESSOR OF CLASSICAL AND MODERN JEWISH AND HEBREW 
LITERATURE AND PROFESSOR OF COMPARATIVE LITERATURE, DIRECTOR OF 
THE CENTER FOR JEWISH STUDIES  

November 28th, 12:00pm 
Ephraim Kanarfogel 
Yeshiva University 
E. BILLI IVRY UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR OF JEWISH HISTORY, LITERATURE AND 
LAW CHAIR, REBECCA IVRY DEPARTMENT OF JEWISH STUDIES  

Jewish History Colloquium 
December 6th, 1:00pm 
Alma Heckman 
UC—Santa Cruz 
NEUFELD-LEVIN CHAIR OF HOLOCAUST STUDIES 
HISTORY DEPARTMENT, JEWISH STUDIES  

WHERE 
Judaica  
Collection  
Reading Room 
 
Sterling Memorial Library 
3rd Floor, Room 335b 
 
 
For more information     
contact - 
Renee Reed @ 
renee.reed@yale.edu or 
203-432-0843 
 
 
A LIGHT KOSHER 
LUNCH WILL BE 
PROVIDED 
Yale University


**THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Page number(s): 36**

 36
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Truth
History
Democracy
Hear from some of the most outstanding 
journalists in the world and gain insight into 
the media and its role in contemporary culture.
poynter.yale.edu

