Publication date: October 2009
Volume: 42
Issue number: 2

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editor-in-Chief: Ben Lasman
- Managing Editors: Haley Cohen, Kate Selker
- Designer: Aimee Marquez
- Associate Editor: Kanglei Wang
- Copy Editor: Elsie Kenyon
- Senior Editor: Laura Zax
- Production Staff: Timothy Shriver, Samantha Ellner, Helena Malchione, Abigail Owen-Pontez
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Roger Cohn, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Emily Bazelon, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Daphne Chu, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O'Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, R. Anthony Reese, Rollin Riggs, Stuart Rohrer, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Jessica Winter, Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- SNAPSHOTS - 
- COVERING ANNIE LE. - Elsie Kenyon
- HISTORY IS OUR PRESENT - Hannah Zeavin
- IN THE RED - Marissa Grunes
- NESTEGGS - Laura Blake
- NOHAVEN - Helena Malchione
- NETGAIN - Jane Long
- STANDARDS - Haley Cohen
- POINTS OF DEPARTURE - 
- PROFILE - Haley Cohen
- ENDNOTE - Ben Lasman


**Title: COVERING ANNIE LE.**
**Author: Elsie Kenyon**
**Page number(s): 12**

How the media turned a campus tragedy into national news.


**Title: HISTORY IS OUR PRESENT**
**Author: Hannah Zeavin**
**Page number(s): 16**

Coeducation at 40: Reflections from three generations of Yale women.


**Title: IN THE RED**
**Author: Marissa Grunes**
**Page number(s): 18**

From music with a mission to music for music's sake: can the Yale Russian Chorus stay relevant in the post-Soviet age?


**Title: NESTEGGS**
**Author: Laura Blake**
**Page number(s): 7**

In backyards across New Haven, residents are hatching a fowl plan.


**Title: NOHAVEN**
**Author: Helena Malchione**
**Page number(s): 9**

Iraqi refugees living in New Haven face difficulty finding work, homes, and even getting picked up at the airport. Two organizations want that to change.


**Title: NETGAIN**
**Author: Jane Long**
**Page number(s): 14**

Artist William I.a anson asks us to reconsider our standards.
Long Shot.


**Title: STANDARDS**
**Author: Haley Cohen**
**Page number(s): 4**

A formation of tarot cards after a reading.


**Title: POINTS OF DEPARTURE**
**Author:**
**Page number(s): 21**

Roadkill taxidermy, hospice care, and mind-boggling streets.


**Title: PROFILE**
**Page number(s): 23**

Supernormal


**Title: ENDNOTE**
**Author: Ben Lasman**
**Page number(s):**



**Title: DEAD ON ARRIVAL**
**Author: Kate Lund**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
I 
DEAD ON ARRIVAL 
Every Tuesday and Thursday, seventeen-year-old Zoe Kauder Nalebuff waits 
in line behind a gaggle of schoolchildren 
in the lobby of the Peabody Museum of 
Natural History. She is not going to see 
the dinosaurs. When Zoe reaches the 
front, she makes eye contact with a security guard, who steps out from behind 
the admissions desk and escorts her to a 
locked door which he sweeps open with 
the ceremony of a chauffeur. Zoe descends 
two flights of an echoing cement staircase 
and emerges beneath the Peabody, where 
strips of fluorescent lights and exposed 
piping stretch down a network of hallways 
lined with windowless doors. The signage 
is troubling. The "Pest Control Orange 
Zone" gives way to a corridor flanked with 
an "Emergency Shower Unit" and cabinets labeled "Dirty Bones." Chain-link 
doors segment the hallway like security 
checkpoints and require the repeated use 
of a key. Behind a sliding steel door, secured with a clunky steel padlock, is the 
museum's taxidermy and modeling studio. 
In the corner, there is a freezer. 

The unpaid assistant to the Peabody's 
head preparator, Zoe halts her journey 
here. This second-tier taxidermy freezer 
looks like something you might keep in 
your basement to store last year's Otter 
Pops. It is a standard-issue chest freezer, a 
trusty Frigidaire. Dating back from before 
the company went modern and started 
writing its name in caps lock with a faddish triangle for an A, the box's logo is still 
in classic cursive. If the Frigidaire could 
pass for ten years younger, you'd swear the 
Peabody picked it up on Craigslist. 

The freezer is filled with the bodies of 
birds. Unlike the specimens filling the 
museum's sleek Ornithology freezer, the 
Frigidaire collection is not shipped cross-country by naturalists, but amassed by 
amateur donors. The packaging reflects 
this. All birds inhabit their own bag, but 
some press against the plastic, others are 
wrapped in brown paper towels. The wing 
of a barn owl in a Barnes and Nobles book 
bag pokes through the cheek of Guy de 
Maupassant. Most bags are sealed, but 
some are loosely knotted or left open; a 
Ziploc contains two mallard ducklings 
with legs so freezer-burned they look like 
rock candy. The biggest bird in the box has 
three layers of brown feathers, glossed with 
green and orange sheen. Its leg, from talon 
to knee joint, is the length of a forearm. 
This bird rests inside an unsealed black 
garbage bag, its head rubber-banded to a 
second bag that once contained a loaf of 
Pepperidge Farm sourdough. Turns out 
this specimen is a wild turkey, and in November, they're over-donated. Last year, 
the head of taxidermy painstakingly peeled 
the skin off a surplus turkey, then transferred the frozen body into a vat of marinade for his Thanksgiving dinner. 

But because the Peabody's head preparator, Michael Anderson, has been 
busy making insect models these past few 
months, the day-to-day taxidermy has 
fallen to Zoe. 

She came to the basement a year and 
a half ago looking for a hands-on way to 
join her interests in art and science, and 
was soon pushing a scalpel through neck 
flesh and driving around with a cooler in 
her trunk and a Connecticut state permit 
to pick up roadkill. Still in training, Zoe 
has yet to contribute anything to the upstairs "Birds of Connecticut" exhibit; for 
now, her handiwork is tied to cheap display boards and sent to public elementary 
schools. Her guiding text for turning these 
birds into wall-mounts is The Preparation 
of Birds for Study by James Chapin of the 
American Museum of Natural History, 
published in 1923 at the price of fifteen 
cents. It sits in photocopy on the worktable. Chapin's highly technical instructions 
are supplemented by J.H. Barry's Practical 
Taxidermy and Home Decoration, published five years later. Here is a text for 
the everyman, or maybe the gentleman, or 
any man fond of the last three items of its 
index: Water ouzels, pg.93; Woodcock on 
shed, pg.114; Yacht, traveling by, pg.32. 

At the very least, a man with patience-
when one of Zoe's colleagues ripped the 
skin on his first mount decades back, he 
threw the bird across the room. To encourage everyone to rise above these impulses, 
the preparator's studio plays exclusively 
opera. 

Every couple of weeks, Zoe selects 
a bird from the freezer. If she can, she'll 
choose one that died a summer death; 
winter birds' skeletons are sheathed in fat 
that has to be scraped off. Zoe doesn't diverge much from Chapin's 1923 instructions. She dries the blood with cornmeal 
and stuffs the head with chaff, then turns 
the whole bird inside out and fills the body 
cavity with a string and fiber model ten 
or twelve tries in the making. But a little 
modern method seeps in. Chapin suggests 
removing the brain with the handle of the 
scalpel; Zoe uses a grapefruit spoon. On 
page ten, someone has penned in, "KEEP 
FEMUR. Don't cut at knee." Chapin 
warns against warming the body too 
quickly. But the slight thawing necessary 
to strip the skin from the frozen core takes 
twenty minutes on the table. On most 
days, Zoe swaps out Michael's coffee cup 
from the office microwave, and puts a bird 
in its place. Twenty seconds does the trick. 

For years, people have just been bringing in the birds. New Haven residents call 
in with intact roadkill after having seen 
the museum's taxidermy displays, and get 
transferred to Michael Anderson. Peabody 
employees have supplied a steady stream of 
birds for as long as Michael can remember. 
The Peabody primarily reserves these birds 
for their public education programs, but 
every year, in a nod to grassroots gathering, a handful of them make it into the 
museum. Some never make it anywhere. 

The oldest label Zoe has sighted in the 
freezer, next to a small pink bird, reads 
"Wallingford, Connecticut. Killed at window. January 22, 1983". But some of the 
most unusual birds the red-shouldered 
hawk, the beautiful turkey are unlabeled. There's no telling how long they've 
sat inside the Frigidaire. 

A few months ago, a Peabody employee walked into the studio unannounced, 
threw open the lid of the freezer, and began spreading crows and hummingbirds 
and finches across the floor. After scattering several dozen bodies, he found what 
he was looking for. It was a hawk, in an 
unlabeled plastic bag. Seven years ago, he 
was speeding down the highway with his 
buddies and a trunkful of fishing tackle 
when the hawk crashed into his car, cracking the windshield. The four men turned 
around, bought an ice chest at a gas station, and headed straight home to the Peabody. They never made it to the lake. "This 
is it," he said, shaking the bag furiously, 
tearing open the seal to show a wing still 
spiked with glass. "I hoped he might get 
mounted, you know, claws around a fish." 

Maybe Zoe will resurrect this hawk 
one day. "I'm like a puppeteer," she says, 
"bringing these birds back some sort of 
life."


---

**Title: HELPING ALICE**
**Author: Laura Gottesdiener**
**Page number(s): 5**

HELPING ALICE 
If you came here to watch someone die, 
you came to the right place. If you came 
here to help, grab a pair of gloves. 

"I'm a mess today," Alice calls as you enter her home. Blinds up. Heated bathroom 
light on. Pants, sweater, blouse, camisole, 
underwear (lined with a day pad), wool 
socks: lay them on top of the washing machine in the bathroom. Place the walker at 
the bedside and scoop up a pair of speckled legs thinner than your forearm. After 
a five minute routine of ankle circles (to 
get circulation going), help walk Alice to 
the bathroom, left hand on the small of 
her back, right hand cupping her shoulder 
bone. Sit her on the toilet. Shut bathroom 
door or risk Alice complaining, "You're 
showing me to the road!" At ninety-eight 
Alice still has spunk. 

If you see her dentures, soak them in 
water. Place her wristwatch and chest 
monitor on the counter, discard her diaper 
in the trash, tie the trash bag and leave it 
outside. Get the shower water running. 
Wash her back, underarms, stomach, 
legs while she's sitting. She'll wash her face. 
Stand her and wash her bottom thoroughly," instructs Colleen Swiderski, one of Alice's four attendants and a certified home-help aid. She explains the job as you go 
through the motions. This is hospice care, 
a philosophy of emotional and physical 
treatment aimed at the comfort of the patient at the end of her life. It is not to keep 
her from dying. It is to make the transition from life to death kinder and easier. 
Alice is treated from home. Her bottom is 
chapped a dark red. Scrub lightly. 

"Don't be afraid to touch me," Alice 
says. Scrub harder. When her arms start to 
shake, she's tired. Water off, towels on: one 
draped over her back, one across her legs. 
Lather Sween Moisturizing Body Cream 
on the raw skin on her bottom. Then: 

Underwear up. Camisole down. Pants up. 
Blouse down. Left sock up. Sweater down. 
Right sock up. Done. If you found them 
earlier, apply Super Polygrip to dentures 
and give them to Alice on a small washcloth. If you hadn't found them on the 
counter to soak, Alice still has them in 
from the night before. Though she risks 
swallowing them in her sleep when she 
does this, don't say a word. 

Never question Alice's ability to make 
decisions for herself. Don't argue if Alice 
wants to keep her dentures in so she can 
nibble on the chocolates on her bedside 
table during the night. Don't get frustrated 
when patients want to take control, even if 
it interferes with your job. 

After the shower routine (don't forget 
the hearing aid or the glasses), help her to 
the reclining blue chair beside the glass 
paneled doors looking out over the ocean. 
Listen when Alice says "That's our 
rock." She points out the window to a 
rock jutting out of the surf. Nod to tell 
her 'what a nice rock.' Alice explains that 
when she was a middle school teacher, her 
classroom was so quiet that people used to 
joke that she hypnotized her students. Believe it as you feel that silence descending 
over the sun-drenched house. Pause, just 
for a minute. If you came here to watch 
someone die, you couldn't have come to a 
more beautiful place. 

Never think about the fact you're 
working hospice care. Don't dwell on the 
stories Colleen told you about the patient 
who bled out of his mouth, or the patient 
who died in her arms, or the patient after patient who soiled the bed night after 
night. 

Still, remember your job. Practice how 
to fasten the orange "Do Not Resuscitate" 
bracelet, pinned to the phone beside the 
elderly woman's reclining chair, around 
her quarter-inch thick wrist. Worry that 
it seems like Alice's family, as Colleen tells 
you, is "just waiting for her to die." Examine the evidence: they never buy her 
new nightgowns. And they only come by 
to say 'hey Morn' and borrow her copy of 
the New Haven Register. "You'll see that," 
Colleen warns. 

Don't panic or call the hospital if something goes wrong. Fasten the bracelet tight 
around her wrist and call the family. Let 
her die: that's your job description. Then 
again, even Alice will readily admit that no 
one wants to live until she's ninety-eight. 

When her legs shake in the shower, or 
when she leans back into your arms and 
waits nervously for you to lift her into bed, 
she knows how little is within her control. 

Bring her one cup instant coffee, one 
slice of toast (cut diagonally in fourths), 
eight to twelve Frosted Mini-Wheats. Remember: separate spoons for the coffee, 
jam, and cereal. Don't pour the milk or the 
coffee creamer. She'll do that herself.



**Title: DRIVING IN CIRCLES**
**Author: Julia Fisher**
**Page number(s): 6**

DRIVING IN CIRCLES 
6 
Professor of Management at Yale, explains 
that the city's plan was "very rare for that 
period." 

Two hundred years after the 
grid was first set down, the automobile 
made its debut, and with it came congestion. By the 1960s, in an effort to calm 
traffic, the city made most of the streets 
downtown one-way, an arrangement that 
has persisted to the present day. This design, Rae said, is meant to speed up car 
traffic. "Traffic moves in New Haven now 
maybe twice or even three times as fast 
as it did seventy years ago," he said. City 
Engineer Richard Miller, for one, thinks 
it's been relatively successful. "I don't receive many complaints about the one-way 
streets," he said. 

But the one-way streets can annoy 
anyone in a car used to walking by more 
direct routes. To get from Phelps Gate to 
Broadway, for example, Joyner must drive 
four blocks out of his way. "Customers get 
upset because they think I'm taking them 
for a ride," he said. "In some instances, it's 
quicker to walk." 

Though he now lives in Stratford, Joyner, 49, grew up in New Haven. 
"When I got my license, people drove with 
a little more courtesy," he said. Though 
the layouts of the streets haven't changed, 
"traffic is ten times as much as it was when 
I was younger." 

Joyner's stint as a New Haven cabbie 
began about a month ago. Before that, he 
drove in Milford and Bridgeport, where 
two-way streets and free parking abound. 

"New Haven is pretty unfriendly to the automobile," Rae said. "The 
really vital thing about New Haven is that 
the downtown and Yale neighborhoods 
center on pedestrians, and, to a lesser extent, bicycles." 

According to Miller, there are an increasing number of cyclists in the city, a 
fact he attributes to the resurgence of the 
green movement and the heavy concentration of schools in the downtown area. Yet 
there are few bike lanes on New Haven's 
streets and biking on the sidewalk is illegal, 
so cyclists, like Brian Tang, TD '12, have 
to ride next to cars. 

Tang, a former intern with the New 
Haven Transportation, Traffic and Parking 
Department, says that, "From the perspective of a Yale student, it feels like somebody should be making an effort to make 
things safer for Yale's campus and to make 
it easier" for bicyclists to get around safely. 
It's the duty of a city to protect its citizens 
and facilitate transportation. Bicyclists, 
however, aren't always playing by the rules 
either. 

Though bicyclists are supposed to 
obey traffic signals just as cars do, many 
often cross the street with pedestrians instead of waiting for a green light. Moreover, in an effort to avoid the same indirect 
routing drivers face, cyclists often go the 
wrong way down one-way streets. The 
problem becomes particularly acute on 
smaller, single-direction roads not intended for through-traffic, such as Wall Street, 
whose direction switches every couple of 
blocks. 

In an effort to reconcile the needs 
of drivers, bicyclists, and pedestrians, the 
city is working on compiling a Complete 
Streets Manual, to be finished by the end 
of the year. The pamphlet will assess the 
conditions and usage patterns of every 
street in New Haven. "We're looking at 
trying to be much more aware of the context" to determine how to address traffic 
needs on each street, Miller said. He stresses that many forms of technology for traffic control have already been developed; 
the city only needs the money and time to 
implement the new ideas. 

For now, people like Joyner and 
Tang try to adapt to the idiosyncrasies of 
New Haven's streets. Perhaps in time, the 
city will realize the need to adapt to them 
instead. 



**Title: SNAPSHOT**
**Author: Laura Blake**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Nest Eggs
In backyards across New Haven, residents are hatching a fowl plan. 

FROM THE SIDEWALK, Vince Kay's house 
is indistinguishable from any other on irs 
block in New Haven's East Rock neighbor-
hood-white paint, two stories, a modest 
porch out front. Walk past the green Jeep 
and white Isuzu parked in the driveway, 
however, and you may wonder whether 
you mistakenly wound up in New Haven, 
Vermont, a town of 1700 near the west-
em border of the Green Mountain State. 
Through the window of a weathered, 
wooden barn with a plaque reading "Farm 
Bureau Member" Lies a collection of vars 
and tanks, equipment Kay uses to process 
the honey his bees produce. Nasturtiums 
creep along the edge of a vegetable garden 
that abounds with leeks, basil, peppers, 
and tomatoes srrung up on wooden trel-
Lises with strips of white cloth. Tucked in 
the back comer, a Bock of Buff Orpington 
chickens rustle and cluck in their coop, set-
cling in for another evening in New Haven. 
Kay has been keeping chickens in his 
backyard for the past twenty years, but this 
f.ill marks the first time that his birds are 
legal residents of the city. As of Septem-
October 2009 
ber 8th, an ordinance permits New Haven 
residents co keep up to six hens in their 
backyards, provided they follow a series 
of requirements for coop size, structure, 
and distance from neighboring residen-
cies. The ordinance, which passed in an 
18-8 vote by the city's Board of Aldermen, 
places New Haven among a growing num-
ber of American cities legalizing the raising 
of chickens in residential districts. In do-
ing so, these centers are redefining how we 
think about the uses of urban space, what 
it should look Like, and the tradi£ional 
boundaries between rural, suburban, and 
city Life. 


New Haven's ordinance owes irs success 
to widespread community mobilization. 
It all began two years ago with a woman 
named Rebecca Weiner, who was keeping 
a coop at her home in Westville. After 
her neighbor complained to city officials, 
Weiner was rold that, under the city's zon-
ing regulations, her birds had to go. Rather 
than give up her Bock, however, Weiner, 
gathering support from friends and pro-
ponents of urban agriculture throughout 
the city, appealed to the zoning board and 
received a special exception for her coop. 
Soon after, Alderman Roland Lamar, who 
ultimately would play a key role in the leg-
islative effort, was approached by another 
resident about Weiner's case. Lemar was 
intrigued. Though he didn't know much 
about the nuts and bolts of city chickens, 
Lemar recalls, "I liked it from a policy 
standpoint. A place like New Haven has 
limited access to good, locally produced 
proteins. [The chickens] are a great, easy, 
cheap way to produce a source of protein." 
He did a bit of research, and then spoke to 
a few colleagues on the Board of Aldermen 
about legalizing chickens. The idea was 
axed. Lemar would have let the issue lie, 
but his constituents kept pushing. At the 
time, the city's legal policy regarding chick-
ens was unclear, an unofficial don't-ask-
don't-tell. So Lemar made it his mission 
to illuminate the issue: "'Let's push it, let's 
figure it out. Lose or win, but let's figure 
it our." 


Throughout the following months, Le-
mar and two fdlow aldermen, Erin Sturgis-
Pascale and Ina Silverman, worked closely 
with local advocates as well as officials in 
zoning and public health to draft a strict 
yet sensible ordinance for urban fowl. The 
legislation was eventually voted out of 
committee and brought before the board, 
where it finally won council approval. 
Walk past the green jeep and 
white Isuzu parked in the 
drivewa~ however, and you 
may wonder whether you 
mistakenly wound up in New 
Haven:~ Vermont, a town o 
1700 near the western border 
o the Green Mountain State. 
Kay, who raises his birds for eggs, cites 
his reason for keeping the birds as largely 
gastronomic: "There's just absolutely no 
comparison. The color and the flavor are 
just so delicious." As proof, he asked me 
to hard-boil an egg and bring it to our in-
terview, so I showed up outside the coop 
holding a Tupperware container of Grade 
A Jumbo eggs from . caged chickens in 
Pennsylvania. Kay brought out his eggs, 
· laid that morning, in a small china dish 
painted with flowers. Looking at the two 
white globes I had brought, he exclaimed, 
"Look at how big they are. Oh my God, 
they're like ostrich eggs!" Then, sprinkling 
a scant half teaspoon of salt on each egg, 
we traded batches and took a bite. The first 
difference I noticed between Kay's eggs and 
my own was color. The store-bought yolk 
was a dull crayola yellow, while Kay's was 
a rich~ vivid gold. And then there was the 
texture of the homegrown eggs: buttery 
and smooth in a way that lingered almost 
decadently on the tongue. And the taste: 
a flavor that unfolded over time, growing, 
deepening, hinting at the varied diet of 
the hens, who eat natural grain mix, layer 
mash, grass clippings, and garden weeds. 
"You are what you eat," Kay told me. "If 
the birds are outside getting good light and 
good food, they produce a fantastic egg." 


Yet the city chicken movement, and the 
greater urban agricultural trend it repre-
sents, are about greater pleasures than the 
purely gustatory. As his hens ran around 
the garden, scratching in the soil in pursuit 
of worms or ·seizing fallen cherry tomatoes 
in their beaks, Kay spoke about how his 
chickens fill a prominent, and troubling, 
gap in modern urban society: "Our food 
has gotten into this really antiseptic kind 
of production at factory farms. People only 
know it through the cellophane in the gro-
cery stores." Yale English professor Cathy 
Shufro, who raises chickens at her home in 
Woodbridge, expressed a similar concern: 
"Urban children who . don't have parents 
wealthy enough to take them out to the 
country or send them to camp might well 
grow up without ever ·seeing a farm ani-
mal." The societal. model we have come to 
take for granted, with its strict dichotomy 
between urban and rural space, has created 
a mass ignorance when it comes to food 
production, best illustrated in the Rooster 
debate. Both Kay and Lemar mentioned 
repeatedly that neighbors had approached 
them and demanded to know how they ex-
pected to produce eggs without a rooster, 
which the city ordinance forbids for rea-
sons of noise control. Both had patiently 
explained that, biologically, chickens don't 
need a rooster to lay eggs, only to hatch 
chicks. Kay shakes his head. "People just 
are oblivious to how it all works." 
Kay brought out his 
eggs:~ 
laid that morning, in a small 
china dish painted with flow-
ers. Looking at the two white 
globes I had brought, he ex-
claimed "Look at how big 
they are. Oh my God they're 
like ostrich eggs!" 


The criticism that we as a society have 
forgotten, or choose to ignore, where our 
food comes from, is not a new one. But 
New Haven's chicken policies have dem-
onstrated how this criticism translates into 
a reality. While obliviousness deteriorates 
community relationships an act like mow-
ing the lawn, or planting a garden, or rais-
ing chickens creates a sense of investment 
in one's community, turning cities into de-
sirable, livable places. For the past twenty 
years, Kay has maintained good relation-
ships with his neighbors. In return, they 
have declined to repon his chicken coop 
to the Zoning Board. More broadly, he ex-
plained how raising your own food makes 
you directly responsible for the health of 
your family, and therefore more inclined 
to choose agricultural practices that pro-
mote the health of the entire community. 
"I think we'd have a healthier planet .. .if 
everyone had a garden in their backyard," 
Kay says. ''I'm sure they wouldn't spray 
their lawns and poison the wells." 
As his hens ran around the 
garden, scratching in the soil 
in pursuit o worms or seizing 
fallen cherry tomatoes in their 
beaks:~ Kay spoke about how · 
his chickens ll a prominent, 
and troubling, gap in modern 
urban-society. 


Looking back to a time when chickens 
were illegal, Lemar reflects, ·"Our zon-
ing code kind of had this antiquated vi-
sion of what cities looked like when they 
separated out defined residential zones, 
defined industrial zones, defined commer-
cial zones, and [were] not really accommo-
dating to folks who wanted to mix those 
uses." Now, residents like Kay have a legal 
right to reconsider those definitions. As 
Kay recounts the way raising vegetables 
and chickens has shaped the relationships 
that form his community, his hens begin 
rooting around the flowerbeds. He bangs 
the lid of a pot to shoo them away. He 
stays in New Haven because his relation-
ships with neighbors, store owners, and 
small businesses, in his words, "feel like 
family." A livable urban future lies in re-
lationships like these that blur boundar-
ies between commercial and communal, 
between public responsibility and private 
choice, to create integrated and invested 
communities. How do we begin to shape 
these communities? If we're anything like 
Kay, we'll do it through food. 
Laura Blake is a Sophomore in jonathan Ed-
wards College. 



**Title: Iraqi Refugees in New Haven**
**Author: Helena Malchione**
**Page number(s): 9**

Iraqi refugees living in New Haven face difficulty finding work, homes, and even 
getting picked up at the airport. Two organizations want that to change. 

You MAY KNOW LITTLE Aoo1s Ababa 
in Washington, D.C. or the Little Arme-
nia of Los Angeles (otherwise known as 
the city of Glendale), but you probably 
haven't thought of New Haven as a Little 
Baghdad. Over the last three years, how-
ever, approximately 180 Iraqis have arrived 
in New Haven 
now considered an "Iraqi 
location" by the State Department 
as the 
United States has finally begun to address 
the refugee crisis it helped create. 

Hussain, an Iraqi refu_gee living in New 
Haven, waited a year and a half for his 
case to be processed by the United Na-
tions High Commissioner for Refugees 
(UNHCR) before he was invited to come 
to the US. It was not his first time in the 
States 
he studied at the University of Ar-
kansas as a Fulbright Scholar from 2005 
to 2007 
but he, like most other arriving 
refugees, had never heard of New Haven. 
"I Googled 'New Haven' to read about 
New Haven and Yale, and I started having 
some dreams about whether I would be 
happy here or not," recalls Hussain. 

Hussain is now employed as a case-
worker, Arabic interpreter, and cultural 
advisor at New Haven's Integrated Refugee 
and Immigrant Services, more commonly 
known by its acronym, IRIS. One of many 
non-profit 
resettlement 
organizations 
around the country, IRIS assists newly ar-
rived refugees once the State Department 
assigns them to the New Haven area. The 
group provides airport pick-up services, 
health and employment advising, school 
registration and language classes, and re-
ferrals to the government's public benefit 
programs. IRIS supports families as they 
work to become self-sufficient 
a process 
that can take up to a year, and is only made 
harder by the fact that these families only 
receive $900 of federal support. 

The 2003 invasion of Iraq left as many 
as two million Iraqi refugees living in the 
Middle East, and 2:7 million more re-
main displaced within their own country. 
Despite these alarming numbers, the US 
made no move to address the situation 
until 2006. The work was slow. Congress 
passed the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act in January 2006 to provide for 
fifty special immigrant visas (SNs) per 
year for Iraqis or Mghanis translators who 
aided US forces while in Iraq. From the 
beginning of the war to September 2007, 
despite Congressional hearings on the 
worsening predicament, the US approved 
only 2,371 Iraqi refugees for admission. 
"There was an embarrassing, shameful 
delay in the resettling of [Iraqi] refugees," 
says Chris George, Executive Director of 
IRIS. 

Only in the last few years has the situ-
ation begun to amend itself. In January 
2008, the Refugee Crisis in Iraq Act of 
2007 (the Kennedy Act) provided 5,000 
SNs per year for five years, and also ini-
tiated expansive refugee resettlement pro-
grams. By September of that year, the US 
announced it had admitted 13,823 Iraqi 
refugees, and by July 2009, twenty-thou-
sand Iraqis had been allowed to enter the 
United States. 

Now, there is a small, growing Iraqi 
community in New Haven. "People here 
take pride in the idea of 'strength through 
diversity,"' George continued. "The Elm 
City 10 Card, especially, sent a loud mes-
sage that immigrants and refugees are wel-
come here." 

Yale students are doing what they can to 
help refugees. At the undergraduate level, 
the student group Reach Out has started a 
new initiative this fall to work with refu-
gees through IRIS and shine a spotlight 
on New Haven's growing immigrant com-
munity. Additionally, two Yale Law School 
students, Becca Heller LAW '10 and Jon 
Finer LAW '09 founded the Iraqi Refugee 
Assistance Project (IRAP) last summer. 



**Title: Iraqi Refugees in New Haven**
**Author: Helena Malchione**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
of the Iraqi refugee crisis while he was 
reporting . in Jordan for the Washington 
Post, the organization quickly grew, and 
now boasts chapters at New York Univer-
sity Law School and UC Berkeley's Boalt 
School of Law. Additionally, it has gained 
support among law students drawn to the 
refugee crisis as "a great injustice that we 
· caused and weren't doing anything about," 
as IRAP Director of Direct Assistance Kate 
Brubacher LAW '10 explained. 

c'I always tell people, , says 
' 
Hussain, "that if one Iraqi 
· man P'!-1-ts his hands on the 
shoulders o ·another Iraqi 
man, they are not homosexu-
als. This is simply our custom. " 

Still entirely student-run, IRAP has a 
three-pronged mission: to work directly in 
the Middle East resettling· refugees, to ad-
vocate for refugees through United States 
policy reforni, and to provide direct servic-
es to refugees here in New Haven as they 
adjust to American life. Since the New 
Haven-based IRIS has limited staff to ad-
. 
dress the needs of each newly-arrived Iraqi 
·family, IRAP provides student volunteers 
to help refugees with a variety of services, 
from teaching individuals about tenant 
rights to tutoring English to personally ac-
companying men and women to job inter-
views around the city. 

This year, IRAP is opening volunteer 
opportunities up to undergraduates as 
well. An IRAP undergraduate informa-
tion meeting at the end of September 
lured a large number of interested Yalies 
to donate their time to the cause. IRAP 
hopes to convince student organizations 
on campus to sponsor individual families 
and to promote an awareness campaign 
on the Iraqi refugee crisis. Undergraduates 
will also have opportunities to work on 
policy teams that make recommendations 
to Washington. "You should simultane-
ously be a resource and an advocate," en-
couraged Brubacher at the meeting. "The 
Law School is incredibly connected," said 
Michael Boyce BR '11, who worked with 
IRAP in their local legal assistance divi-
sion during a semester abroad in Jordan. 
He currently helps lead the undergraduate 
branch of IRAP. "You're not just sending 
things out into the ether. Your sugges-
tions are heard. It's amazing what you can 
accomplish," Boyce said in reference to 
!RAP's policy advocacy division. 

The aid of the students involved is not 
lost on a struggling local community. Even 
before arriving in the United States, many 
Iraqi refugees have to put their lives on 
hold for several years while they muddle 
through the complicated application pro-
cess. Unaware of the status ·of their peti-
tion, they subsist on very little income as 
a result of being forced to live in countries 
like Jordan, where it is illegal for refugees 
to work. Despite having surmounted in-
credible obstacles in order to arrive in the 
US, refugees do not see resettlement in 
New Haven as the light at the end of the 
tunnel. Rather, those arriving in the city 
face a host of new setbacks. 

One problem arriving Iraqi refugees 
face in New Haven is the task of finding 
jobs that match their professional qualifi-
cations. As a particularly highly-educated 
group of refugees, Iraqis "come with quali-
fications that are not to be considered 
here, so they have to re-credentialize their 
degrees," explained H·ussain. "We think to 
ourselves, 'We are a ready-to-go people. 
The United States didn't spend a penny on 
our education 
why not benefit from it 
by employing us in professional fields?"' 
A Baghdad oncologist Hussain worked 
with at IRIS, for example, could not find 
a medical job here, and now works in a 
meat service department.· "Iraqis waiting 
to come to the U.S. in Jordan are con-
vinced that they will get better jobs here 
than they actually will," echoed Boyce. 
"They all plan on making $75,000 a year 
before they get here, but these kinds of op-
portunities don't materialize." 

The struggle to find jobs is augmented 
by what Hussain calls the "general igno-
rance" of employers towards the refugee 
resettlement program. "People think that 
refugees have no paperwork," he explained, 
"when in fact we are the most documented 
people." 

Finally, the culture shock New Haven 
poses to Iraqi refugees is significant. "We 
come from a patriarchy, a system where 
the man is the dominating character in 
the family," explained Hussain. "Here, this 
is different. Women participate in deci-
sions." The implications of this culture 
gap are broad. For example, an elementary 
school may call the home of an Iraqi refu-
gee family to arrange for a parent-teacher 
conference, only to be told by the husband 
that he will show up to the meeting, but 
that his wife 
who should be kept at 
home 
will not be present. In other in-
stances, some Iraqi customs don't translate 
into American society. "I always tell peo-
ple," says Hussain, "that if one Iraqi man 
puts his hands on the shoulders of another 
Iraqi man, they are not homosexuals. This 
is simply our custom." Additionally, many 
facets of our everyday lives 
ATM ma-
chines, credit cards, and mortgages 
are 
unheard of in much of Iraq, and must be 
explained to newly arrived refugees. 

New Haven's growing Iraqi refugee 
population brings the Iraq War home in 
the truest sense of the expression. "Iraqis 
are good people. Refugees are good peo-
ple," said Hussain. "They need chances, 
jobs 
they need to feel somehow that life 
is better here for them." With the privilege 
of living in a society thaf'enables refugees 
to rese.ttle comes the responsibility to ac-
cept and promote them as members of 
our community. If refugees arrive in New 
Haven only to feel that life here is a dis-
appointment compared to the countries 
from which they fled, then ·the city has 
failed to live up to its name. 


**Title: Yale's First Co-Educational Class**
**Author:  (Not explicitly stated, inferred from context)**
**Page number(s): 12**

'7 think you have to remember the historical moment 
when we arrive 
-~-Julia Preston, YC'73 
Journalist for The New York Times 
Julia Preston was one of roughly 500 females accepted into 
the first co-educational class at Yale of 1969. At the time, being a 
woman at Yale was just one of a handful of politically and expe-
rientially important events of the year. As Preston reminded me, 
"We were in the throes of the Vietnam war. The country was in 
tumult." Campuses nationwide were abuzz with dissent and pro-
test. The women at Yale, however, did not go unnoticed amidst 
the chaos. "I think the situation we walked into could better be 
described as chaos or upheaval ... It was clearly a university that 
did not have the experience of having women on its campus. I felt 
that every day." Women at Yale were different, it seemed, at least 
to the Yale boys, than average women. In the company of" 1,000 
male leaders," Preston explained, "We were strange creatures and 
an intimidating group. The kind of competition we went through 
to get in is. not exceptional now, but certainly was then. There 
were 500 freshman women and we were preceded by some repu-
tation that we were either outrageous nerds or intellectual ama-
zons." Though neither was really true, she remembers, "I just had 
a feeling of being unfamiliar, that we were 'The Other' coming to 
campus. 

When Preston was a freshman, the women had a curfew'--
everyone had to be in their rooms by ten. However, men would -
stay in girls' dorms well past this time in order to get "acciden-
tally" locked in overnight. The 'lock-ins' replaced bussing. Before 
women became readily .accessible in a dorm on Old Campus, 
buses from women's colleges like Barnard and Smith would park 
along Phelps Gate. Women were being imported. In retrospect, 
the situations seem rife with chauvinism, but, according to Pres-
ton, "The whole inequality thing was never part of my experience. 
I always thought of being part of that whole group of women as 
an incredibly empowering experience." 

In the spring of 1971 Preston took a !eave of absence to travel 
to South America. When she returned in 1975, a mere six years 
after gender integration, the campus had, in Preston's words, en-
tered a new era. "On the one hand, co-education had become 
quite routine, but on the other hand, in the spring of 1975 the 
war in Vietnam had ended. So I came back to a university that 
was settled." This made Preston a bit uneasy. "[It was] comforting 
to not be a strange creature _anymore but also worrisome in· the 
sense that there was a sharp decline in the of the activism of the 
student body." Yale, it seemed, cooled down 
the calm wrought 
by accepted change. 



**Title: The Shifting Sands of Equality at Yale**
**Author: Hannah Zeavin**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
"Histo
years an
eryfight.
.
was our present. It had only been eleven
we folt so empowered. "We could meet ev-
U:Ie had to. "
--Elizabeth Alexander YC'84
Poet, Chair of Mrican-American Studies at Yale University

By the time Elizabeth Alexander matriculated at Yale in 1980,
a shift both cultural and political was taking place across the coun-
try, as well as on campus. Alexander . remembers watching from
the Morse Dining Hall as Reagan was elected in the fall of her
freshman year. The role of being an active participant in politics
had shifted from protestor to witness, from acting to watching.
Alexander remembers her freshman year as being both historically
important and radical. According to her, it was "a brief and won-
derful period after the sexual revolution and before the AJDS epi-
demic ... It was very powerful to be eighteen and feeling that being
sexually free was part of being an intellectual and of being politi-
cal." It was a short-lived but incredible time to be a woman. Dis-
course on the roles and rights of women at Yale pervaded campus .
Being empowered to talk privately about current situations was no
longer enough; the critical voice had made it, not only into the
culture but into to the classroom, too. It was the foundation of
the work being conducted inside the university and on its grounds
as well. "In the classroom, in the academy, it was very present,
very real." There was a self-determined ideal: a watermark, a goal
for where women should be and how they should be received.
The women's role at Yale felt to Alexander like a challenge, but
one that was unstable. «.We were called upon to do our best and
better." Between 1984 and 2009, that feeling, says Alexander, has
evaporated. Speaking about the Yale of today as both an alumnus
and a professor active in student life, Alexander addressed a shift
away from classroom-based political discussions. Whereas stud-
ies of old movements are the norm, it is rare that a class diverts
away from a syllabus to talk about campus dynamics. "Change
is not made by slackers," she remarks. Yet today's Yale women are
far from slacking. As with our men, the women ofYale are highly
pressured, and highly motivated, and often wildly dedicated. So
why, then, aren't they making change? _
At first glance, it seems that there is less at stake. Thought
about women and change at Yale is no longer based in impera-
tives, but suggested in terms of additions, improvements, and
patches. It's true
today, few could imagine the college without
female students, let alone our female professors and staff. This
comfort, however, may prove a different challenge. Today's Yale
must be aware of the quieter hurts, based on gender and insidious
strains of sexism that still riddle the campus. The newer genera-
tions must look with sharper _eyes.
October 2009
'·
..
c7 have been trying to think about why there was such a
small reaction to the 'scouting report. 'A lot of
thought
it was funny. I am trying to think about why.
is a whok
spirit of being antifeminist. Men perpetrate it too, thinking
that it will make them more masculine. And
think irs
the only way to be sexy. ,,
-Rachel Kauder NalebuffYC'13
Student, editor of My Little Red Book

Rachel Kauder Nalebuff, SM '13 was disgusted at Yale's reac- .
tion to the "preseason scouting report," an anonymous email pro-
filing 53 incoming freshman women. The women were rated on a
scale from sober to ten beers, the more sober, of course, being the
more desirable. The review often got personal, even citing specific
Facebook pictures, as if these women really had been scouted by
the students before they arrived.
"I was surprised that no real action was taken .. .! think we need
better sexual education," Kauder Nalebuff says. "People do not
know basic, fundamental things that people interacting with other
people really need to know. Things like sexual etiquette."
What needs to change for women to feel not only equal, but
comfortable in this community? Why is it that our student body
needs to be educated about how to cope with being co-educated?
What happened in the 40 years since women first entered Yale?
The sense of entitlement to co-education on the collegiate level
is understandable. It is a choice, and one seldom made, to be edu-
cated in a single sex environment. Of course women feel entitled
to be at Yale. Who would ever reverse that decision?
But it's not enough, perhaps, to say that if men and women
~ both get x, we have equality. Is it then ridiculous to want to firm
a deeper sensibility, not just actions but perceptions? The hour
does not feel as though it has come to do more than talk privately
about our discontent. Or has it? Perhaps we as Yale women and
as women in general should put those questions from the past 40
years back on the table.
Hannah Zeavin is a sophomore in Berkeley College.
13


**Title: Long Shot: William Lamson's Giant Hoop**
**Author: Jane Long**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

Artist William Lamson asks us to reconsider our standards.
By Jane Long
- -
William Lamson invites viewers to engage with his creation. jane Long
THE POCKET PARK on the corner of
Chapel and Orange seems more like a
concrete wasteland than an art gallery.
The gravel entrance gives way to unkempt
patches of green and yellow grass. Flanked
on three sides by a large brick wall, the area
is dark even when the sun is out. The air is
thick with the dust of nearby construction,
and the park provides no shelter from the
sounds of the street just a few feet away. ·
But then, there it is: a large, old-school
basketball hoop atop a wooden pole. The
rim is rusty, fading from red to crusty
brown, and the net is worn and dirty from
overuse.
There's really nothing unusual
about the equipment, except that it is
25 times larger than any other basketball
hoop you've ever seen.
rim is also 2.5 times larger than a normal
hoop, the worn-down blue basketball pro-
vided on-site should be at least six times
more likely to go in. Even knowing that
probability, the prospect of tossing a ball
25 feet is daunting. But most people who
show up to "Long Shot," as the installa-
tion is officially called, decide to take the
challenge. After all, they come here to ball.
My first shot resulted in an air ball; I
missed the net by a good three feet. On
my second try, the ball grazed the hoop.
A few more times quickly became fifteen
minutes, and then an hour. The ball kept
missing its target, but I didn't want to give
up.
of being a child playing on a normal size
basketball hoop," he explained.
Like a child, I became fixated on the
task: I have to get it in, and I'll stay until
I do. The stares of the people waiting at
the bus stop or working at the construc-
tion site nearby no longer embarrassed
me. I might have looked goofy, but I was
having a lot of fun. Occasionally, people
came over to see what the ruckus was all
about. "Even Shaq can't dunk that," one
exclaimed. And once they see the hoop,
they're hooked; no one who takes a shot
leaves without scoring. While few are ac-
tually children, everyone looks like a pre-
schooler when they shoot.
The idea of returning the audience to
its youthful roots is something Lamsop. has
explored before. For instance, in 2007 he
created" Action," a series of videos in which
'
he pops black .balloons. This year he exhib-
The sheer height of the hoop, designed
by Brooklyn artist William Lamson, is
enough to intimidate the athletic and non-
athletic alike. Since the diameter of the
The task was Herculean. Lamson, how-
ever, would have been pleased by my re-
peated failures.
"The audience's struggle
to make a shot is the fundamental experi-
ence of the work. When we play with this
enlarged hoop it recreates the experience


ited "To Work and Trade," a performance

**How the media turned a campus tragedy into national news**
**Author: Elsie Kenyon**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“ONE. Two. One-two-three-four.” Just 
after 8 p.m. on September 14, an amplified 
message cracked the silence of thousands 
of mourners gathered on Cross Campus to 
commemorate Annie Le GRD '13, whose 
body had been recovered the previous af-
ternoon from the basement of 10 Amistad 
Street. Alongside the solemn addresses of 
Yale University President Richard Levin, 
University Chaplain Sharon Kugler, and 
Le's roommate, Natalie Powers, a parallel 
broadcast of "TESTING" messages, cam-
era clicks, and the shuffling of television 
crews emerged from the loudspeakers. Un-
dergraduate and graduate students, New 
Haven residents, and friends of Le—mem-
bers, as Levin put it, of a "community of 
concern"—had come to Cross Campus to 
grieve and be comforted, yet the vigil itself 
teetered on the edge of spectacle. The next 
morning, images of the sea of candle-lit 
faces would allow millions of newspaper 
readers, web-surfers, and television-watch-
ers around the world to share in the vigil. 
But there was one aspect of the experience, 
salient to all who huddled together on 
Cross Campus, that the media would not 
capture: Its own, at times intrusive, pres-
ence. 


Yet from the volume of press Le's story 
received, consumers of news could imag-
ine the media circus that New Haven 
hosted in the weeks following the Septem-
ber 8th disappearance. As city, state, and 
federal investigators tirelessly searched, 
first for Le, and then her killer, local and 
national news sources searched for a story. 
Film crews stalked press conferences, vans 
camped out on Amistad Street, and report-
ers accosted ignorant undergraduates out-
side Woodbridge Hall, Office of the Presi-
dent. Regarding the trampling of NBC 
producer Alycia Savyides by a throng of 
reporters at a New Haven Police Depart-
ment briefing, Joe Avery, a spokesperson 
for the police, told the New Haven Inde-
pendent, "I've never seen a bunch of people 
so out of control in my entire life." 

Regarding the trampling of 
NBC producer Alycia Savy-
ides by a throng of reporters 
at a New Haven Police De-
partment briefing, Joe Avery, 
a spokesperson for the po-
lice, noted "I've never seen a 
bunch of people so out of con-
trol in my entire life.”


As they had after the 1998 murder of 
Suzanne Jovin '99 and the 2003 Yale Law 
School Bombing, the press descended on 
New Haven last month for, as Editor in 
Chief of the Yale Daily News Thomas Ka-
plan put it, this "perfect storm story." A 
promising young bride-to-be missing, a 
gruesome murder with a town-gown twist: 
though not a random act, it could have 
happened anywhere, and it happened at 
Yale. Le's tragedy was simultaneously riv-
eting, bizarre, human, and relatable—and 
to the press, supremely marketable. Dur-
ing the week of September 14, the story 
drew more media coverage in America 
(seven percent) than the swine flu, the war 
in Afghanistan, or missile defense. News 
sources converted provocative images and 
words ("stuffed," "traumatic asphyxiation," 
"lab tech") into dollars: Le's murder was 
"closely followed" by about a quarter of 
the American public, according to the Pew 
Research Center for the People & Press. 

The marketability of Le's story led to 
the media's use of both new-age and age-
old tactics of sensationalist reporting. 
Along with an overload of lurid headlines 
(CBS's "Grisly Yale Murder 'Freaks' Stu-
dents" on Crime Insider) came videos 
(ABC's "Cold Feet or Foul Play?" on Good 
Morning America), online photo albums 
(CBS's "Annie Le and the Love of Her 
Life," again on Crime Insider), and inter-
active timelines (see the Hartford Courant) 
that blurred the line between informative 
and inappropriate. 

In their attempt to capture the atten-
tion of audiences in the digital age, the 
press exploited new media at the expense 
of sensitivity, and devalued their integri-
ty by engaging in the overused tactics of 
speculation and dissemination of misin-
formation. Echoing the claims made after 
Jovin's murder, rumors began circulating 
on Friday, three days after Le's disappear-
ance, that a Yale professor was the prime 
suspect in the case. The New York Post and 
New York Daily News later reported that a 
Yale student had failed a polygraph test in 
the FBI investigation. There were two pre-
mature reports of a recovered body: Sun-
day stories claimed that Le had been found 
buried in a Hartford landfill. Even when 
facts replaced these claims, the search for 
Raymond Clark III's motive in Le's murder 
bordered on amusement: Clark was angry 
at Le for her treatment of lab animals (Fox 
News); he had killed Le in a "roid rage," a 
steroid-induced frenzy (The National En-
quirer); the two had formerly been roman-
tically involved. "It's sort of frightening to 
see the misinformation that's been printed 
as fact," Kaplan remarked. 

October 2009
The Yale Daily News focused on get-
ting the facts right. Like their professional 
counterparts, the newspaper's staff spent the 
period of uncertainty following Le's disap-
pearance on the medical school campus, 
at the police station, and on the telephone 
gleaning information. Their tactics—thor-
ough investigating and conservative report-
ing—worked. Such methodology resulted 
in "CLARK CHARGED IN LE GRD '13 
MURDER" rather than the cbsnews.com 
headline from the same day, "Raymond 
Clark III and Jennifer Hromadka's Wed-
ding Web Site Goes Dark." 

THE YALE DAILY NEWS, however, had a 
few advantages, manifested not only in key-
card access to Yale buildings, but also in the 
established trust of University administra-
tors, police, and students. Moreover, Ka-
plan admits that the paper was free of its 
professional counterparts' need for "a blunt 
headline to sell newspapers." Without the 
impetus to gain readership or spur local 
interest in the Le story, there was no eco-
nomic narrative pushing dramatic excess 
onto the paper's front page. The Yale Daily 
News could afford to avoid sensationalism, 
and, as the paper serving Levin's "commu-
nity of concern," it also could not afford 
to stoop to speculation. While the murder 
might have been the national headline of 
the week, for the team at the Yale Daily 
News, said Kaplan, it was "the biggest news 
story in a decade." The students rose to the 
challenge of the occasion. "We had an op-
portunity to do really outstanding work... 
There was a very clear obligation to handle 
the story with the proper level of sensitiv-
ity." The charge not only to tell the truth, 
but tell it well, validated the intensity of 
the News' coverage. "FEMALE BODY 
FOUND AT 10 AMISTAD," while po-
tentially lurid elsewhere, felt more relevant 
at Yale, where the people, places and the 
possible threat in question hit especially 
close to home. 

"It's sort of frightening to see 
the misinformation that's been 
printed as fact," Kaplan re-
marked. 

Accuracy and sensitivity legitimized 
the already reputable paper as a source of 
news: over two million people followed the 
Annie Le, a pharmacology student at Yale School of 
Medicine, who was murdered last month. 
Le story on yaledailynews.com; Yale Daily 
News photos were sold to outside media 
sources; impressed readers posted appre-
ciative comments online, and Kaplan re-
ceived hundreds of requests for television 
interviews. 

The paper not only informed the Yale 
community, but served as its mirror, and, 
by extension, its voice. But while the staff 
received accolades for journalistic integrity, 
the paper would have gained no such at-
tention had the media not generated such 
fervor around the story in the first place. 
Interest in Raymond Clark's personal life, 
statistics on "workplace violence," and fas-
cination with Ivy League journalists went 
hand in hand with the murder. Ultimately, 
the obsession distanced Le from her own 
narrative. Though Yale vigil-goers and 
journalists alike respected life lost, the me-
dia created a story as much as it reported 
one. 

Elsie Kenyon is a junior in Trumbull College. 
She is the Copy Editor of TNJ.


**From music with a mission to music for music's sake: can the Yale Russian Chorus stay relevant in the post-Soviet age?**
**Author: Marissa Grunes**
**Page number(s): 18**

IN FRONT OF THE lofty pillars and 
gleaming organ inside Dwight Chapel 
stand some twenty young, tuxedoed men 
arranged in a two-tiered crescent. Watch-
ing them expectantly is an audience of Yale 
undergraduates, graduate students with 
small children, and elderly men and wom-
en whispering in Russian or Ukrainian. 
A moment later the audience falls silent 
as a pure, solemn chord fills the Chapel. 
The sound, full and mysterious, is built 
of a deep, broad bass note supporting a 
middle baritone, with a bright tenor float-
ing above. This is the sound the audience 
came to hear. Even those of us who do not 
speak Russian understand that this sound 
is meant to praise the Eternal. 

It is the sound of the Yale Russian 
Chorus, a group of singers and intellectu-
als struggling to hold its ground against 
the backdrop of a changing world and a 
changing university, all the while making 
beautiful music. 

For over fifty years, the Yale Russian 
Chorus has shared the beauty of Slavic 
choral music with tens of thousands of 
Americans and Russians. The Chorus has 
helped preserve religious and folk music of 
the 17th and 18th centuries once banned 
as "dissident" by the Soviet regime. Far 
from dissolving along with the Soviet bloc 
at the end of the Cold War, the Chorus 
continues to bring the haunting liturgical 
music and humorous, spitfire folk songs of 
the Russian steppes into the present day. 
Many members speak no Russian, but 
they are still touched by the stunning, alien 
harmonies they sing. The music speaks for 
itself: in "Satrpialo," the choristers' voices 
swell and speed up to the precise clip of a 
rider spurring his horse to reach the girl 
he loves. In a slower folk song, "The Volga 
Boatmen," the sorrowful chant of peasant 
laborers builds to a powerful peak, then 
fades as the men pull the barge into the 
distance. 

Current YRC Baritone Alexander Remington poses with founding director Dennis Mickiewicz.

THE CHORUS WAS founded in 1953 al-
most by accident. One week, the Yale Rus-
sian Club, a coterie of students who met to 
discuss Russian politics and culture, invit-
ed Denis Mickiewicz, a Russian-born stu-
dent from the School of Music, to speak 
about his country's folk tunes. The charis-
matic emigre, who had fled the Soviet oc-
cupation of Latvia, didn't care to "speak" 
with the undergraduates about his musi-
cal heritage, but instead showed up with a 
guitar, mimeographed records of Russian 
folk music, and two bottles of vodka under 
his arm. The academic gathering became 
a rousing chorus of Slavophiles. Despite 
their lack of formal training in the genre, 
the men readily belted out the potent har-
monies. 

Though they started out small and 
"pretty scruffy," as one alum, Harold Hille 
(YC '66), recalls, as time went on the pas-
sionate Chorus could afford to be choosy. 
In 1959, over a hundred students tried out 
for the group. With the launch of Sputnik 
in 1957, the number of students taking 
Russian at Yale had leapt from 11 to 110. 
The Lucy-Zarubin Agreement promot-
ing US-Soviet cultural exchange had also 
just been signed, allowing the Chorus to 
embark on its first tour of the USSR in 
1958. The Yale Russian Choristers had be-
gun their career as musical diplomats sans 
portfolio. 

During their first tour of the USSR, 
the 18 Yale men gathered each day in a 
public square and began to sing African-
American spirituals for roughly twenty 
minutes in an effort to establish themselves 
as a definitively American singing group. 
They then switched to Russian songs. 
Immediately, eager Russians would inter-
rupt them, curious about these American 
kids who sang ancient Russian folk and 
sacred music. Despite the danger of con-
versing with foreigners, the Soviet citizens 
could not contain their wonder. A corner 
of the Iron Curtain had been raised, and 
both sides peered through curiously and 
critically. Soviets demanded to know how




**The Yale Russian Chorus: A Legacy of Song and Politics**
**Author: Marissa Grunes**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Americans espousing the ideal of liberty 
could allow racial segregation to persist in 
their country. On one occasion, a Chorus 
~ember crumpled up his draft card and 
driver's license and left them in the pub-
lic square to prove that US citizens could 
move freely without papers. 

A er a concert in Cali ornia 
in the late 60s, Carter says 
a bearish Russian man with 
tears streaming down his -ace 
told the Chorus that Mother 
Russia "lives 
hearts." 

The Chorus ·returned to the Soviet 
Union the following two years, but Mick-
iewicz, after receiving hints that the Soviet 
government might not respect his recent-
ly-acquired American citizenship and ar-
rest him for alleged "war crimes," chose 
not to tour in 1960. Soviet citizens did 
not go unscathed by the group's presence 
either. The Chorus would return to find 
that organizations whose members they 
had met in past years had been dissolved; 
former contacts had simply vanished. The 
Chorus knew their movements were being 
tracked and later learned that the secret 
police regularly questioned everyone seen 
speaking to them. "The Soviets were get-
ting more and more determined to block 
real cultural exchange," recalls Hille. "They 
wanted to manage it, and we were like 
gypsies," itinerant and irritating to the offi-
cials. Hille laughs a bit grimly, remarking, 
"we were there as tourists, kids, and we 
didn't really know about consequences." 

Though naive about Cold War reality 
in the Soviet Union, these self-appointed 
ambassadors took their work seriously. 
According to Hille, "We were really loyal 
US guys and were trying to do our bit for 
democracy, for the freedom of thought 
that we read about in school." The United 
States government declared itself thrilled 
with the Yalies' efforts. Then-Senator Hu-
bert Humphrey wrote in 1960: "The Yale 
Russian Chorus has done a most effeCtive 
job in communicating the American mes-
sage to the Soviet people ... the only trag-
edy is that we don't have ten or fifty or a 
hundred choruses such as yours." The State 
Department may have had more than just 
a passing interest in the effectiveness of 
promising, young Russian-speaking men. 
As late as the 1980s, after a concen at the 
October 2009 
White House, the Chorus was asked to re-
port on their observations of Gorbachev 
to the government. 

The Chorus had a cultural mission in 
the United States as well. On their return 
from the Soviet Union in 1958, the New 
York Times featured their picture on its 
front page and the "Today Show" invited 
them to discuss their experience in the 
USSR During Spring Break the Chorus 
would drive to California and back, sing-
ing concerts daily at colleges and the oc-
casional Russian Orthodox church along 
the route. They opened their shows with 
lectures on their observations of Soviet so-
ciety. The Chorus, Hille contends, wanted 
to bring "Russian and Eastern European 
issues to Americans and keep the issues 
alive, to try to put a human face on their 
gl , 
strug e. 

Hille, who still organizes the two-hun-
dred-person reunions of Chorus alumni, 
and who speaks a dozen languages, took 
that humanizing mission to heart, first 
working as a translator for the United Na-
tion, and then as a professor of Russian 
at Yale. Brian Carter (PhD '92), another 
alum who continued to sing with the Cho-
rus while working at Yale, has a slightly 
different 
but no less impassioned view 
of the Chorus' political role. "In 1968, we 
were singing revolutionary songs, and we 
meant it, we were really dissatisfied," he 
says. "It was the Vietnam War years and 
May Day." 

During this era of activism, the Cho-
rus successfully mixed politics with seri-
ous music. In 1962, they won first place 
at an international choral festival in Litle, 
France. During the same tour, in Berlin, 
they sang at the spot along the Berlin Wall 
where Peter Fechter had been shot trying 
to flee to the West. Then, in 1963, Soviet 
agents detained Yale professor Frederick 
Barghoorn on charges of espionage. When 
both the university and the State Depart-
ment refused to confront the USSR over 
the matter, the Russian Chorus decided 
to get involved. "We started raising hell," 
Hille laughs. They organized a letter-writ-
ing campaign and managed to convince 
the American Organization of Professors 
to protest to the State Department. After 
14 days of confinement, Barghoorn was 
released. 

But 1963 saw losses for the Chorus as 
well. That year, Mickiewicz left Yale to be-
gin his career as a comparative literature 
professor. With no native Russians left to 
ensure authenticity of singing or interpre-
tation, the Chorus clung to the traditions 
its founder had left behind. However, 
despite frequent shifts in leadership, 
it remained much the same organism 
throughout the Cold War, driven by the 
emotional interpretations and cultural 
agenda instituted by the former director. 

WITH THE COLLAPSE of the Soviet 
Union in 1991, Russia ceased to compel 
as much student interest as it had before. 
Furthermore, the end of the Cold War 
brought with it a flowering of traditional 
choruses in Russia, thus rendering the 
Chorus' role as cultural preservation-
ist obsolete. As the group's political rel-
evance waned, so, in turn, did several of 
its traditions. In 1995, students of the 
Russian Chorus stopped relying on stu-
dent conductors, a custom instated fol-
lowing the departure of Mickiewicz, by 
inviting early music expert Mark Bailey 
(YSM '89) to serve as permanent artistic 
director. Bailey had recently graduated 
from the Institute of Sacred Music at 
Yale and was teaching music at St. Vladi-
mir's Orthodox Seminary in New York. 

Dissatisfied with the trend of interpret-
ing Russian choral music with the rough 
gusto of peasants, Bailey was determined 
to bring a more European refinement to 
the group. Raised in Ukraine, Bailey had 
grown up surrounded by music, and, as 
a child, sang in his grandmother's choir 
at the local Ukrainian Orthodox church. 

Bailey's connection to Slavic culture is 
as deep as the repertoire itsel£ ''I'm con-
ducting Russian marching songs and 
my great grandfather was in the Czar's 
Army," he says with a smile. In an era 
when interest in Russian culture at Yale is 
too casual to make student conductors a 
feasible option, the members of the cur-
rent Chorus are grateful for a consistent 
musical mentor. 

Bailey takes a different approach 
to the music than that of his predeces-
sors. Carter observes that Bailey "drills 
his choir as though they were singing 
Brahms: they are very professional, in a 
fine West European concert choir mode." 
Their clear, open harmonies, however, 
come at the price of the old boisterous 
masculinity of Mickiewicz's days. Bailey 
also began to change the Chorus' reper-
toire, ending the decades-old tradition of 
allowing alumni to sing in any rehearsal 
or performance. Alumni who graduated 
before 1995 felt as though someone had 
changed the lock on the door to their 
own home. Caner, who had sung regu-
larly with the Chorus for nearly three de-
cades, does not want to "steal" the Cho-
rus from the current students. "On the 


--- Page 20 ---

other hand," he says, opening his palms, "I 
miss it! I miss being able to drop into a re-
hearsal and sing songs I know." Like many 
Russian Choristers of the past and pres-
ent, Carter and Hille, men with no for-
mal musical training, valued their chance 
to sing in a serious and vibrant ensemble. 
Thanks to the Yale Russian Chorus, Carter 
says with wonder, he, as a "rank amateur," 
has sung five times in Carnegie Hall. "It's 
a high," Carter says. "You lose yourself as 
part of this organism making these beauti-
ful sounds." 

The pre-1995 alums still meet annu-
ally, and remain as raw and shirt-ripping 
as ever under the baton of Maestro Mick-
iewicz, who continues to conduct them. 
The Alumni of the Yale Russian Chorus 
(a5 they designat,ed themselves after a legal 
tug-of-war with the group on campus) still 
· perform reunion concerts at Carnegie Hall 
and other prestigious stages. Membership 
is at least four hundred-strong worldwide, 
and at least two hundred former Cho-
risters show up to , each rem1ion. Among 
them are former high ranking State De-
partment officials, ambassadors, and a for-
mer US Solicitor General who now teaches 
at Yale Law School. An offshoot group of 
alumni continue to perform professionally 
as the chorus Slovyanka in San Francisco. 
This winter, past choristers will fly to New 
Haven from around the world to celebrate 
Mickiewicz's 80th birthday with three 
days of rehearsals, recording sessions and 
performances. Shortly thereafter, Mickie-
wicz will fly to Moscow to deliver a lecture 
on "Khoristoria," the documentary history 
of the Yale Russian Chorus. 

Despite an active alumni life, many 
older alumni remain unsettled by the new 
Chorus' heightened musicality and de-
politicization. For Hille, the former UN 
translator, the Chorus was a way to fulfill 
Yale's mission for its "students and gradu-
ates to becortle active in the world, to play 
a role, be involved in decision making, get 
involved in some of the fights that were 
going on out there." In 2005, Hille asked 
the Chorus to help raise campus awareness · 
about the Orange Revolution in Kiev, and, 
more recently, about the war in Georgia. 
Speaking like a concerned parent, Hille re-
marks that the older alumni "are puzzled 
by the current group, how different they 
are musically, and what they see as the rea-
son for doing this." In the past, he says, 
that reason was tied to a "sense of what 
being a concerned and engaged individual 
meant, and I would love to see that resur-
rected." Acknowledging the changed po-
litical scene, he adds, "I think nowadays, 
20 
in order to have an equivalent experience, 
you'd have to have an Iranian chorus ora 
North Korean chorus ... some group that's 
demonized in the American press." 

Current chorus members sympathize 
with these indictments. They lament the 
slackened energy, the lack ofpolitical con-
scientiousness, and the loss of songs like 
the foot-stomping "Kalinka," (a favorite 
on Soviet tours). At the same time, the 
students echo Hille's observation that the 
world is a different place . . "Russia and 
Eastern Europe are no longer 'the Second 
World'," says Ian Randolph (YC'10): Rus-
sian issues don't claim c·ampus attention, 
and the Chorus is no longer a political or-
. 
. ' 
. . 
gan1zat1on; 1t s a smgmg group. · 

This art they defend vigorously. Nicho-
las Villalon (MED'10) stresses that Bailey 
preserves expressive spontaneity by urg-
ing the singers to understand the songs 
through music and text. Randolph, with 
no previous musiCal training, is grateful to 
Bailey for transforming him into a semi-
professional singer. He loves the music, 
and speaks with relish of how the sing-
ers "bite into the weird dissonances, the 
weird-sounding chords." For current Cho-
rus President Adam Haliburton (YC'10), 
the Chorus satisfied his wish to be part of 
"something a little more elevated, classical, 
liturgical." 

· Yet the question remains: without the 
Cold War, why is there still a Yale Rus-
sian Chorus? Some, like Hille, believe the 
group is not long for this world, and are 
resigneP. to let it die peacefully. But the 
current Chorus members are not so mor-
bid. As long as the group has a permanent 
director, and is not too tied to a shifting 
student population, it seems that the Cho-
rus, a Yale tradition, is likely to survive. 

While the Chorus sometimes struggles 
for its footing here at Yale, the group con-
tinues to perform semi-professionally to 
great acclaim around the US. Their 1996 
commercial album was placed on the New 
York Times "Critic's Choice List," and the 
singers hope to record another such album 
this year or next. Their political presence 
has shrunk, but the music remains power-
ful. Randolph believes the Chorus is "more 
than just a curiosity ... I think there is are-
ally deep soul to our music." The Chorus 
has also adapted. Rather than singing to 
American students, it often books Ortho-
dox churches and sings for Russian expa-
triates who have little opportunity to hear 
their native music. After a concert in Cali-
fornia in the late 60s, Carter says a bearish 
Russian man with tears streaming down 
his face told the Chorus that Mother Rus-
• 
sia "lives again in your hearts." Even now, 
it is not unusual for the current group to 
provoke tears and equally profuse gratitude 
on the part of their Slavic audiences. The 
Chorus also continues to tour. Haliburton 
has arranged concerts in Connecticut and 
New York, at Harvard, and even a perfor-
mance with the celebrated Slavic choir 
Capella Romana. Moreover, the President 
has tried to increase recruitment by sharp-
ening the Chorus' image with magnificent 
banners and public exposure. Villalon 
suggests the Chorus might retain singers 
better if its repertoire changed more often, 
while Randolph hopes the Chorus can 
become a "larger musical personality'' by 
holding more free campus performances. 

Ultimately, however, the Chorus suffers 
from two chronic troubles endemic to Yale 
groups 
low membership and limited 
leadership, both conditions that tend to 
exacerbate each other. Every graduation 
rocks the boat, especially when the Presi-
dent, the _primary organizational figure, 
prepares to leave. 

Yet the music itself has staying power, 
and each year, new students join. The an-
swer to the Chorus' survival lies deeper, all 
the way back to the Yale Russian Club's 
transformation into the Yale Russian Cho-
rus in 1953. Why were these men not 
content just to talk about Russian music 
and culture? The founder has an idea of 
the reason. "Much of the mythology of 
the songs is universal," explains Mickie-
wicz in his thick accent. "The woes and 
joys of love are universal ... hard fighting 
is, alas, also universal." These themes are 
not generational, nor is the joy of singing 
determined by political bent. In truth, the 
interaction between the Chorus' singers 
and its music has changed very little since 
1953. Carter joined the Chorus in 1969 
after hearing the Red Army Chorus play-
ing in a dorm room he happened to pass. 
Villalon remembers randomly picking up 
a CD of Russian vespers in high school. 
He heard a "shockingly eerie and haunt-
ing" sound he could not forget. Randolph 
is also inspired by the sound. When Bai-
ley tunes the Chorus carefully, Randolph 
says, "We get these really nice sonorities 
where the overtones come out. The chords 
almost make me believe in God." 

Marissa Grunes' is a senior in Saybrook Col-
lege 


**Can This Accountant-Cum-Psychic Take Stock of Your Future?**
**Author: Haley Cohen**
**Page number(s): 21**

You DONT HAVE to be a psychic to grasp 
that accounting can be boring. Not just 
makes-you-wanna-tap-your-foot-' cause-
there's-nothing-better-to-do boring, but 
would-rather-watch-a-snail-crawl-a-mar-
athon, potential-cure-for-insomnia, start-
hearing-voices-that-nobody-else-can bor-
• mg. 

Denise Petry, who worked as an ac-
countant for 20 years, often hears those 
voices, but not in the way that will get 
you locked up. In fact, she started hearing 
them long before the number crunching 
and checkbook managing had a chance to 
erode her sanity. They don't tell her spe-
cific things like, "Joe, the guy at the Deli 
counter is a molester!" They merely sug-
gest, "Hmmm, something's off with Joe." 
"I used to think I was just a really good 
guesser," she laughs. But then, here and 
there, she would "guess" that a friend was 
pregnant or that a family: member would 
get a divorce and "what do you know? It 
would happen!" 

Now SHE "GuESSEs" for a living. As a 
professional psychic reader, Petry makes 
a career out of flipping tarot cards. She 
hands me the deck and asks that I "put my 
energy into the cards." I don't really know 
what this means so I stare willfully at the 
cards as I mix them, hoping that will be 
good enough. 

I hand them back to Petry, who splays 
the deck into a fan shape on the table, sets 
a timer for twenty minutes, (the length of 
a reading $25 buys), and invites me to pick 
a card. 

Flip. 

The card depicts two young children, 
both blonde and cherubic, standing in 
front of a thatched-roof cottage behind 
which the sun is beginning to set. The 
boy, clad in a tunic with a periwinkle belt, 
extends a cup full of flowers to his female 
friend who looks back at him, eyes glassy 
with adoration. 

"A.b., the six of cups. This means that an 
old love will return to you," Petry declares. 
Hmm, I think. Old loves? Old loves? 
Do I have ANY old loves? Maybe she 
means John Smith from Pocahontas? My 
crush on him as a 5-year old was intense 
enough to qualify as love. Granted, he was 
also animated. 


As Petry reads my cards, l watch her. 
She is not the kind of person I would 
have expected to give me my first psychic 
reading. She doesn't wear black robes, talk 
about chakras or reek of incense. Her urn-
ber hair is coiffed into a professional bob 
with bangs, and her face is neatly made 
up. When she speaks it is with certainty, 
and not as though she is channeling words 
through some invisible third party. "The 
best psychics are the normal folks," she ex-
plains. "The one's who go around scream-
ing 'I'm mystical!' 
those are the ones 
you gotta watch out for because they're 
almost always full of crap." 


A brawny man in a tartan kilt stares up 
from the card's glossy surface. He clutch-
es a long staff and stares down at the six 
wands pointed at him, challenging them 
to explode with his belligerent glare. 

"The seven of wands. This means there's 
a lot of competition in the field you will 
pursue but you will tough it out. It also 
means you'll probably do something cre-
ative -
writing, TV, something artistic. 
Any other questions?" 

'She's right!' I think excitedly. 1\.fter all, 
I do want to go into journalism of some 
21 



**Title: Petry's Predictions**
**Author: Haley Cohen**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
sort!' But then I catch mysel£
Before
she had started to read me, I had asked
Petry if I could record our conversation
as I planned to write something about it.
I wonder what she would have predicted
without that vital information. I watch her
as she purses her meticulously lined lips,
and strokes her chin with a red acrylic nail
as long as the crystal she holds in her other
palm "for clarity." Would she have proph-
esized I would go into banking if a copy of
the Wall Street journal were poking out of
my backpack instead of The New Yorker?
Flip.

Petry tells me that she didn't use her
abilities in a professional capacity · until
very recently. It is hardly acceptable in the
accounting world to record "predicted"
assets and liabilities. Then two and a half
years ago, Petry got tired of "pushing the
pencil"- a development even a non-psy-
chic might have foreseen - and started a
new career in the slightly less conventional
field of selling angel and fairy memora-
bilia.

Despite its "less than whimsical location
in a suburban shopping center in Harn-
den, Petry's boutique, Gifts by Moon-
light, might have popped out of a Hans
Christian Anderson tale . . The walls depict
pastel fairies and butterflies flitting across
a starry, saccharine-peach sky, their fair
hair cascading behind them. Fairy mobiles
hang from the ceiling above tables full of
crystal angels and jars of vanilla perfume.
A wind chime tinkles faintly at the store's
entrance, evoking someone's idea of what
fairy laughter might sound like.
"I just wanted to do something fun,"
Petry explains.

For a while, Petry's fuzzy pink pouches
and ornate -angel stationary flew off the
shelves. However, when the economy
soured last year, angels and fairies dropped
off consumers' must-have lists. Petry's
business plummeted from profitability like
Lucifer from heaven.
"I figured I needed to add a service to
boost business and I thought: 'I like read-
ing people, why not?"'

Petry reads me in a sectioned-off area
in the back of her store. The space is not
dark or mysterious, and I am slightly dis-
appointed to see that there are no crystal
balls, red velvet tablecloths, or vials of
bubbling potion. I suppose, though, that
finding those items would make Petry
one of the abrasively mystical readers I'm
supposed to watch out for. Instead, Pet-
ry's reading space is cheerful with lots of
light and windows that look out on a lush
backyard. A lone candle {vanilla scented)
and the ticking timer sit atop a minimalist
wooden table.

Three swords impale a rose-red heart
that floats in a tempestuous sky.
"Hmm the three of swords," Petry
pauses. "Is there something going on with
your mother?" Well, that's not vague at all.
"Your mother is going to want you to come
home. for something. Don't worry, it's
nothing bad!" I tltink a heart with swords
run through it looks pretty bad. "She's just
going to want you to come home."

Suddenly, the timer beeps, indicating
that my twenty minutes are up.
''Anything else you want to ask real
quick?" Petry offers. I shake my head no.
As I thank her, we make eye contact which
both of us hold for slightly too long, read-
ing one another.
"I'm very accurate,
she volunteers.
"No body's 1 OOo/o with these things. I am
human after all."
TN
Haley Cohen is a junior in Davenport Col-
lege. She is a Managing Editor ofTNJ
LY



GS You NEED TO
OW'
.
UT
RICAN HISTORY''
...... ntverst
0
O"\\la
Tuesday, October 27th
4:oopm
Ezra Stiles College
Master's Tea
Master's House
9 Tower Parkway
Presented by the Frank K. Bosworth Fund
and the Department of History


Standardized A Cappella Group Application Form
20th
Anniversary Edition
·
..
Name. _____ _
College ____ _
'
Desired Group(s) ___ __..
Tradition forms the backbone ofYale a cappella. Please complete the following song using your knowledge ofYale a cappella's rich history.
(Yale a cappella retains all rights to perform, license or spontaneously sing the underwritten work).
"
iff en
Song"
Onotnatopoeia
To the
down at
---
----
Noun .
NotMory's
To the place where------------- dwells
Service industry proprietor
old Temple
we ___ so well
Adjective
Place of business
Verb
the Whiffen
assembled with their
raised on high
---------
Noise
Drinking implement
And the _______ of their----------- ____ casts its spell
Noun (mystical)
Celebratory noun ending in "ing"
Yes, the
of their
of the
we love so well
-----
Noun (hubristic)
Verb ending in "ing"
Plural noun·
II Shall I
II and II
II and the rest
Bodily verb ending in "ing"
Make-believe name
We will
our _________ while life and ___ shall ____ _
Verb (performative)
Delicatessen employee
Noun
Abstract verb
Then we'll
and be
with the rest
Verb (morbid)
Verb (past-tense)
We're ________ little
who have lost our way
Adjective (pathetic)
Fal'm animal (plural)
I
-----' --------' ------·
Animal noise Animal noise Animal noise
We're little
who have gone astray
Color
Ba•nyard creature (plural)
------'
'------·
Gentleman
off on a spree
Effete profession
Doomed from here to ______ _
Place (abstract)
______ have mercy on such as we
Name of deity
For office use only
DO NOT MARK
October 2009


3 9002 08153 7608
For media,
co_ .... mentary
and new content £
the art·cles you've j st
read, please visit o.,.. ..
blog at
http:/ /thenewjournal.
wordpress.com.

