Publication date: 11/00
Volume 33, Issue 3

**Amichai's Legacy: Poetry, Peace, and the Yale Archive**
**Author: Anya Kamenetz**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
decades. "Every soldier had in his kit bag a book of Amichai poetry," Barbara Harshav said. "I remember very clearly some years ago being in a bookstore in Jerusalem and seeing a grandmother come in ro buy a book of Amichai poems for her grandson as a bar mit'L-vah present." His front-page obituary in The ]erusakm Post noted that his last book of poems, Open Closed Open (1999) , stayed on the bestseller list for weeks, an almost unprecedented phenomenon in Israel for a book of poetry. He was the recipient of Israel's highest literary honors. And, as Benjamin Harshav notes, "He was able in his later years to make his living from the poetry. That's rare everywhere, but in a small country, it's incredible." 

This popularity soon spread beyond his small home country. 
Extensive translation secured Amichai's world reputation. His work was translated into 33 languages, from Finnish ro Chinese. The unusual success of these translations is tied ro his particular poetic concern with image, not language as such. "He was one of the easiest poets to translate because of his images---except when he worked in Biblical language, where the allusions can get lost," Barbara Harshav said. "Benjamin and I worked with him very closely on [Even a Fist was Once An Open Palm with Fingers (1989)], and there were a few of the compliments you hope for as a translator. [Amichai] said, 'Really, for the first rime I feel that this is what I wrote."' Knowing English well enough to evaluate his own translations, Amichai was restless and worked with many different translators, from poets and others who knew little Hebrew, like Ted Hughes and Stephen Mitchell, to native Hebrew speakers like Chana Bloch. 
Hughes, a longtime friend, said, "He was known and loved the world over." Benjamin Harshav points out that Yale professor J. D. McClatchy's Vintage Anthology of World Litn-ature included about 20 Amichai poems and says, "This is what Amichai always wanted, to be a world poet." 
Rabbi James Ponec, who hosted Amichai in New Haven several times over the lase 20 years, recalls the first meeting between Amichai and American Poet Laureate Robert Pinsky, which occurred at Yale in 1996: "Pinsky was very excited ro meet him-stretched our his hand and said 'Hello, maestro.' I think he really saw Amichai as the giant leading the way." 

Yet no matter how well-respected, how universal his sentiments, or how translatable his images, Amichai remained inextricably grounded in his home soil of Israel. He saw action in every major war of his country, serving as a sergeant major in the reserves until the age of 55· And it may have been the battlefields of Israel that kept Amichai from receiving literature's highest honor. Most of his obituaries noted that he was a perennial nominee for the Nobel Prize, which is given only to living writers. "I think the issue was that they wouldn't give it to an Israeli until there was peace," said Benjamin Harshav. "His archives coming here, to a world university, is almost a consolation prize for his not receiving the Nobel," said Ponet. 

So how exactly did they get co Yale? Amichai's friends and acquaintances here offer different explanations, but mostly they come down to money. "It could be argued that his archive belongs in Israel," said Geoffrey Hartman, Sterling Professor Emeritus of English and Comparative Literature and a friend of Amichai's since the 1950s. "Unfortunately, Israel does not seem co have public funds to properly care for this important legacy. That is one reason why Amichai's manuscripts are better off at Yale.'' Ponet adds another reason: "I know he wanted to be able co leave some money to his family, and the Beinecke was able ro pay him something substantial. I know he felt bad about it. He had to choose between leaving his papers in the country and leaving some money to his family-one of his daughters is in her early twenties." Vincent Giroud, the Beinecke's Curator of Modern Books and Manuscripts, hesitates ro give the Library's exact figure paid for Amichai's papers. He notes only that the prices for such acquisitions generally range from about "10,000 pounds" to "astronomical" figures adding, "I think we paid a fair price." How exactly the deal was made is another delicate matter. Hartman says he was originally approached by the Beinecke about Amichai's papers several years ago, and obtained the poet's provisional consent, but that "various complications ensued." 
Giroud says the sale was negotiated through a few different dealers over a period of ten years. He adds, "It's obvious that for an archive so important as that of Amichai's we needed the permission of the national Israeli archivist." To the charge that the archives should have remained in Israel, Giroud says, "It's a legitimate concern, bur the only answer we can give is that it's available to them here." 
Davi Bernstein, an undergraduate, is working on the initial inventory, translating Amichai's instructions for the archivists and putting a catalog online as quickly as possible. 

In this information age, the resting place of scholarly material may be a matter of largely sentimental importance. Yet there is cause for sadness in the idea of a country that cannot afford to keep the letters and manuscripts of its greatest poet. It is especially sad for Israel to lose him now, shaken as the country is by yet another convulsion of violence. Amichai's poetry sustained the theme of being twinned in fate with his country: "When I was young, the whole country was young," he wrote. A week after he died, on September 28, Israeli Defense Minister Ariel Sharon stepped onto the Temple Mount, revered by both Jews and Muslims, touching off the recent violence that has claimed over 160 lives to dare, the majority Palestinian. "I, may I rest in peace," read one of Amichai's lase poems, "I don't want to wait until I die to have peace ... I want peace right now, while I'm alive." As I listened to these words at Amichai's memorial service, in the hushed, translucent marble space of Beinecke, the ironies multiplied. An old man's wish for rest echoes his country's forgotten cry for peace; but even as we celebrate his life, the struggle rages on. 
Anya .Kamenetz, a junior in Davenport College, is a managing editor for TNJ· 
THE NEW JOURNAL