Publication date: October 2015
Volume: 48
Issue number: 3

**MASTHEAD:**
- editors-in-chief: maya averbuch, caroline sydney
- managing editor: isabelle taft
- senior editors: hayley byrnes, kendrick mcdonald, lara sokoloff
- associate editors: ruby bilger, joyce guo, sophie haigney, libbie katsev, elena saavedra buckley
- copy editors: douglas plume, spencer bokat-lindell
- design editors: chris paolini, ivy sanders-schneider, edward wang
- photo editor: jennifer lu
- web designer: mariah xu
- web developer: philippe chlenski
- members and directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh
- advisors: Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff,  Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston,  Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan  M. Clark, Constance Clement,  Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O’Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- What’s Left Behind - Sebi Medina-Tayac
- letter to the editor - Kevin Su
- points of departure - Brady Currey & Victorio Cabrera & Amelia Nierenberg
- snapshot - Semhal Tsegaye
- poetry - Justine Cefalu
- essay - Sacar - Devon Geyelin
- critical angle - The Brightest Among Us - Ceri Godinez
- poetry - Ruby Bilger
- endnote - Olivia Klevorn


**Title: What’s Left Behind**
**Author: Sebi Medina-Tayac**
**Page number(s): 30**
Money from New Haven 
Remakes a rural Mexican town


**Title: letter to the editor**
**Author: Kevin Su**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: points of departure**
**Author: Brady Currey & Victorio Cabrera & Amelia Nierenberg**
**Page number(s): 5**


**Title: snapshot**
**Author: Semhal Tsegaye**
**Page number(s): 12**
The Second Frontline


**Title: poetry**
**Author: Justine Cefalu**
**Page number(s): 16**


**Title: essay**
**Author: Devon Geyelin**
**Page number(s): 17**
Sacar


**Title: critical angle**
**Author: Ceri Godinez**
**Page number(s): 22**
The Brightest Among Us


**Author: Ruby Bilger**
**Page number(s): 28**


**Title: endnote**
**Author: Olivia Klevorn**
**Page number(s): 38**



**Title: A Letter to the Editor**
**Author: Kevin Su**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“Manufacturing Cool,” the September issue’s pop-music story, has an ambiguous 
title — it stands there without a time, without a subject, without a place. But the 
author, Jordan Coley, is happy to locate who is doing this “manufacturing” at 
Yale right now, and it happens to be people and places dear to me. As a member 
of WYBC for the past four years and an executive board member for the last two, 
and a current resident of 216, I felt that my organization, my home, and my 
character were attacked.

Coley writes of “a number of acts on campus embracing a less accessible 
sound”— who are these acts? Coley writes that “students […] cultivate what 
some would call a more ‘alternative’ type of music”— again, which students are 
doing this cultivating, and also, who are the “some” that are calling it alterna-
tive? To me, these vague terms, which no one can really refute outright, display 
a lack of thorough investigation. But the greatest objection I have to this under-
reporting is how conveniently it lends itself to a reductive portrait of Yale.

Coley writes: “You would probably ﬁnd it hard to believe that [Carly Rae  
Jepsen’s “Call Me Maybe”] — or one like it — would ever be performed at 216, 
the dim basement venue that features local and student bands. There is an 
accepted division: bands and independent performers at Yale are the indie 
rockers, bar spitters, jazz players, electronic DJs, R&B singers — the ‘alternative.’ 
Pop blares from the speakers of a crowded party or is preceded by a pitch pipe.”

Who accepts this division, exactly? Certainly not me. Certainly not the 
people who dedi-cate themselves to bringing shows to 216, and certainly not 
the bands that play there. To provide just one concrete example from a show 
at 216 — which is more than there are in the article — our most well-attended 
shows last year were headlined by Slam Dank, a group whose own lead singer 
Keren Abreu calls a pop act. Keren is just one person whose tastes and craft 
complicate the simple narrative of this article, and I refuse to believe that she 
is an exception. The pop-music makers in this article share a feeling that they 
are judged, as  Sarah Solovay succinctly puts it, because “the kind of music you 
make reﬂects how complex you are, so making mainstream music exposes you 
as shallow or basic.” I don’t doubt that her experiences have led her to believe 
this, but when I think back on a basement full of eager Slam Dank fans, it is 
clear to me that this is not every pop musician’s nor every pop fan’s experience 
at Yale.

While the article reads like reportage about “manufacturing cool” on this 
campus, it glosses over its own role in this manufacture. When Coley calls “the 
indie rockers, bar spitters, jazz players, electronic DJs, R&B singers” alterna-
tive, he manufactures his own deﬁnition of the genre. One only needs to think 
of Kanye West, Nicki Minaj, Diplo, and Mariah Carey to realize that not all 
pop acts ﬁt into his narrow (and remarkably white) model of “Pop that birthed 
talents like Britney Spears, Katy Perry, and Justin Bieber” and to see how poorly 
such a division between pop and alternative holds up. When Chris Capello, 
one of the few sources, accuses a party at 216 of playing Taylor Swift alongside 
PC Music as a display of coolness, he crafts a cynical image of people obsessed 
with status, leaving out the possibility that people were just enjoying the music. 
Good, responsible journalism does not thrust deﬁnitions and worldviews 
onto people who may not share them. It does not ignore the complexities of 
subjects as vast as mainstream culture in the United States or as contained as 
the music scene on campus. I write this not just as member of WYBC and a 
resident of 216, but also as a reader who expects better from the things we write 
and publish at Yale.

Kevin Su
Morse College ’16


**Title: Owning the Wilderness**
**Author: Brady Currey**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

i eased the suv down a rough dirt road in northeastern 
Connecticut. My friend Téa, who sat in the passenger’s 
seat, peered into the shady woods ahead. She checked her 
phone to see if we were still headed in the right direction, 
but she didn’t have any service. Her hands ﬁddled with 
pens and papers, nervously sketching the twisted shapes 
of branches and leaves as we went around the next bend.

Then we were there, at Myers Forest, the largest of 
Yale’s seven forests. More speciﬁcally, we were at a camp-
ground that the Yale School of Forestry has used since 
1919. We’d been driving around the forest for the last 
twenty minutes, weaving around groves of oak, hemlock, 
and pine. There’s a reason the trip was so long: Myers 
Forest is the largest piece of Yale property and one of the 
largest private forests in southern New England. On the 
drive over from i - 84, we had traced the northern edge of 
the nearly eight thousand acres. 

illustrations by téa chai
P O I N T  O F  D E PA R T U R E


Trees lit by the ﬁery colors of fall rimmed the shallow 
lakes alongside the road. Ahead of us, the tangled woods 
opened into a small clearing. A few long, low wooden build-
ings—bunkhouses for when the forest has guests—were 
scattered across the ﬁeld. They are mainly used in August 
when the ﬁrst-year forestry students have orientation, or 
when the School of Forestry & Environmental Studies 
holds seminars. Last winter, for example, the School held 
a community lecture on tracking animals in forests. Pro-
fessors also use the camp as a staging ground for the for-
ty-ﬁve research projects currently being run at the forest. 
Some projects study the economics of forestry, looking 
for new ways to make conservation cheaper. One of 
many ecosystem projects focuses on the forest’s vernal 
pools, seasonal bodies of water that dictate the life cycle 
of salamanders. 

We tend to think of the wilderness as a place to be 
protected from the relentless economic forces of human 
expansion, lest it be lost forever. But Myers Forest stands 
as living evidence that this conventional wisdom is wrong. 
Myers is a place where we look under the hood of for-
ests, examining the forces that drive their dynamism and 
resilience. Rather than loss, it tells a story of reclamation: 
its roots run deep through old farmland, across property 
abandoned during the age of westward expansion.  

Only one hundred years ago, Myers Forest was a patch-
work of farms in various states of decay. Now, vines cover 
the remnants of building foundations. Each rainy sea-
son, dirt and silt ﬁll the old wells. To the trained eye, the 
composition of the forest contradicts its youth: it’s almost 
entirely ﬁlled with hardwood trees, like oak and maple, 
which can only grow after pine trees take root in empty 
ﬁelds and provide shade for seedlings.

But this reclamation has been guided and shaped by 
foresters, whose job it is to make forests environmentally 
and economically sustainable. They meticulously cata-
logue, tree by tree, to maximize the diversity and health 
of the species in the forest. Today, the forest is managed 
completely by Yale. It is the home of the Quiet Corner 
Initiative, a partnership that pairs the School of Forestry 
with local private landowners, natural resource managers, 
and forest professionals to improve the health of forests 
across the state.

I tracked down Professor Mark Ashton, the director of 
the School forest system, who gave me a brief overview of 
Myer’s ecological importance and history. We sat around 
a ﬁre pit next to the crumbling foundation of a barn. He 
talked about the broader importance of New England’s 
forests: “Water ﬁlters down through the canopy, through 
the root system, and into the rivers and aquifers we get our 
drinking water from,” he told me, gesturing to the leaves 
and needles around us. “Urban planners in the Northeast 
realized that we had to protect our surface watershed by 
planting trees.”  

According to Ashton, the rich network of forests in 
New England, most of which was planted in the last hun-
dred years, is one of the main reasons our drinking water 
is some of the best in the nation. “Without forests—in 
places like Louisiana, for example—instead of spending 
millions of dollars on a system that nature helps clean, 
you end up spending billions designing and engineering 



**Title: The Forest and the City**
**Author: Brady Currey**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
OCTOBER 2015
 7
a system to get to the same water quality.” Nationally, the 
Environmental Protection Agency estimates that replac-
ing our forest ecosystems with engineered ﬁlters would 
cost more than 270 billion dollars.  

In the early 1800s, only thirty to forty percent of the 
region remained forested after waves of settlers made 
their mark. But as the country expanded, farmers aban-
doned their plots when they couldn’t compete with crops 
shipped by rail from the Midwest. Urban planners leapt 
at the chance to protect watersheds, purchasing vast tracts 
of land to ensure their preservation. Today, thick woods 
cover about seventy-ﬁve percent of New England—a sur-
prising comeback driven in part by the economic forces 
often seen as anathema to conservation efforts.

After my visit, I spoke with Julius Pasay, the manager 
of the University forest system, in order to learn about 
what lies ahead for Myers Forest. Pasay makes executive 
decisions about the composition of the plots of land. He 
keeps Myers Forest as healthy as he can but he isn’t trying 
to return it to its “natural state” from before human con-
tact. “What is a natural state?” Pasay said. “People have 
been interacting with the forests of New England for tens 
of thousands of years, and the distribution and migration 
patterns of species have been changing ever since the last 
ice age.” 

The biggest changes in forest’s composition have been 
caused, unsurprisingly, by humans. Pasay told me about 
the chestnut blight started by a fungus from a Japanese-im-
ported plant. It killed forty billion trees in the early 1900s. 
“These trees were everywhere, and you could just eat 
chestnuts right off of them.” He paused for a moment, 
thinking. “What would society be like if we still had those 
trees, if everyone had free access to food?” 

Thoughts like this inform some of his most audacious 
plans for Myers Forest. Pasay has just ﬁnished planting 
an experimental “agroforest,” a network of different fruit 
and nut trees that has the potential to provide valuable 
habitats for threatened species and increase food yield. I 
asked him when he’ll know how successful he’s been, and 
he laughed. “Maybe in ten or twenty years? That’s the 
difference between agriculture and forestry—you work on 
a timescale of decades. I don’t mind, though. It feels like 
you’re paying it forward.”
— Brady Currey is a junior 
in Saybrook College


**Title: THE MURDER TRAIL**
**Author: Victorio Cabrera**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

 8
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
THE MURDER TRAIL
The paranormal reanimates a stalled investigation
Victorio Cabrera
i  a m  s i t t i n g  in Jillian and Scott Hamilton’s kitchen.  
It is small and crowded with the essentials of home 
life—a blender on the countertop, papers pinned to the 
fridge, plates on a rack. Scott Hamilton lets out a theatri-
cal groan and gives me a weary look.
“So. You like the paranormal, huh?” 

Jillian and Scott certainly do, though they did not get 
much choice in the matter: the supernatural has been 
present throughout their lives. When Scott was 8 years 
old, a ball he was holding rolled out of his hand and into 
the basement of his parents’ home. As he retrieved it, he 
saw a recently deceased neighbor hanging from the raf-
ters. It was a vision, but it looked as real as anything he 
had ever seen. Jillian has twice seen ghosts replay their 
murders for her. Once, when she was touring a house, 
she saw a young woman who had been killed in the mas-
ter bedroom. They do not regard these visions as halluci-
nations: for Jillian and Scott, these occurrences are the 
intersection of the spiritual realm and ours.

Scott works in a Macy’s warehouse and Jillian is a 
seamstress, but their preferred vocation is Family Haunts, 
a paranormal research group dedicated to studying 
these intersections. Connecticut, Scott tells me, is “the 
most haunted state in the country” and, as a result, is 
crowded with paranormal research groups. Like many 
of these groups, Family Haunts investigates hauntings, 


 9
from demons to poltergeists; they also have a stake in 
the smaller ﬁeld of demonic possessions. But that is not 
enough to stand out in a paranormal research scene 
that Scott calls “cutthroat,” and where the only currency 
is exposure. As a rule, paranormal research groups do not 
charge for their services. Two years ago, to raise their pro-
ﬁle, Family Haunts started investigating cold cases. They 
have worked on three to date; one was independently 
resolved, and the other two are ongoing. Since March 
of this year, they have been focusing on the murder of 
39 - year - old Dawn DelVecchio. 

On July 23, 2005, DelVecchio was housesitting for a 
friend in East Haddam, Connecticut. After she stopped 
responding to calls, her mother reported her missing on 
July 24. Two days later, police found DelVecchio’s asphyx-
iated body in an upstairs closet of her friend’s house. 
The police investigated, but no arrest was ever made. 
No suspects were ofﬁcially named, and little informa-
tion about the murder is publicly available. The detec-
tive in charge, Jeff Payette, would only tell me it was an 
“active investigation.” 

The family was devastated; her mother had a nervous 
breakdown and fell into depression. Lenny Paquette, 
DelVecchio’s uncle, felt he was the only one who could 
seek closure for DelVecchio and her family. He has been 
doing so for ten years, talking to the media as the family’s 
spokesman, asking online for information about the mur-
der, and meeting with police. 

“I love Dawn,” Paquette said. “I would pull out all the 
stops until I leave here to ﬁnd out who did it.”

Paquette has always believed in the supernatural—he 
consulted with a sensitive (a psychic, in layman’s terms) 
during the period when DelVecchio was reported miss-
ing, and he describes paranormal experiences as one of 
his “journeys in life.” But Paquette also believes there are 
many supernatural charlatans, so when he saw Scott post-
ing online about his paranormal cold-case task force, he 
was interested but skeptical. They met for the ﬁrst time in 
March. When Paquette meets a sensitive for the ﬁrst time, 
he divulges nothing, making the sensitive prove his or her 
skills. He did so with Jillian, who is an empathic sensitive, 
one highly attuned to other people’s thoughts. She started 
describing DelVecchio and the murder with startling 
accuracy, saying, for example, that she felt DelVecchio 
was “imprisoned” by her home life. 

“I was like ‘yes, yes, yes,’” Paquette recalls, snapping his 
ﬁngers with each yes. “No one would know that.”

Paquette was convinced Family Haunts was the real 
deal; Scott and Jillian felt there was enough material for 
an investigation. They have been working together since. 
On a night in May of this year, they carried out a paranor-
mal investigation at DelVecchio’s gravesite. Scott took pic-
tures and recorded video. Jillian, with a tape recorder run-
ning, asked DelVecchio’s spirit questions. Afterwards, Scott 
pored over these, looking for any trace of the supernatural. 
“Can you give us a sign you’re here? What happened? Is 
there anything you want to communicate with your family?” 
They were hoping to get responses, which in the busi-
ness are called Electronic Voice Phenomena, or EVP. 

An audio professional processed the recordings from 
the cemetery, and Paquette and Scott think there is a 
voice—maybe DelVecchio’s—responding, saying “gener-
ator room.” There was a generator room in the home of 
one of the people Scott and Paquette suspect of commit-
ting the murder. 

Of the pictures they took, they say one stands out: it is 
like any photo of a cemetery at night, with shadowy trees 
and headstones, but superimposed over two of the trees, 
Paquette and Scott see the faces of DelVecchio and one 
of her children.  

I never got to see the picture or hear the recordings. 
It would be easy to be cynical about all this, to dismiss 
digital artifacts and distorted audio and conﬁrmation bias. 
I could roll my eyes and say that ghosts don’t exist and 
talk about the reality TV show to which every paranormal 
researcher aspires. But when I look at Paquette, who car-
ries on the investigation out of his love for DelVecchio, or 
when I think of Scott going to cemeteries in the night and 
poring over the tapes afterwards, I set aside any cynicism. 
I think about the death of a loved one, about a universe 
that is just atoms bumping together in the void, and I wish 
I could see the visions, discern the faces among the trees, 
hear the voices rising out of the grey noise.
— Victorio Cabrera is a sophomore 
in Trumbull College
illustrations by chris paolini



**Title: A LOVE OF LABOR**
**Author: Amelia Nierenberg**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
nurse midwife nancy degennaro demonstrated strad-
dling positions on a large exercise ball for Rose Gallegos, 
an expecting mother sitting next to her. “Sometimes 
we would have her sit on it this way,” Degennaro said, 
squatting on the ball, opening her legs wide, acting out 
Gallegos’s possible future delivery. “Sometimes we have 
her lean on it this way,” she said, moving to rest her ﬂat 
tummy on the ball. “We just get creative.” 

Getting creative is part of the birthing philosophy in 
Yale’s midwifery department, located at Yale–New Haven 
Hospital’s St. Raphael campus on Chapel Street. An alter-
native to the ob/gyn maternity ward, the department staffs 
midwives, who are licensed to deliver children and pro-
vide holistic birth-related care. Mothers are encouraged 
to take ownership of the birthing process. Instead of lying 
ﬂat on their backs in a hospital bed, they move around, 
play birth playlists, and order takeout. There are exercise 
balls used for sitting and bouncing to open the pelvis, a 
bar that allows for pushing while in a squat position, and 
tubs and showers for hydrotherapy. Mothers can decide 
to give birth on all fours in a large, lavender-scented tub. 

Dana Oakes-Sand is a doula, meaning that she is 
trained to provide emotional support before, during, and 
after birth but does not have a medical degree. “I had 
a patient play Skrillex while giving birth,” she told me. 
“That was an experience.” 

With warm lighting, ambient instrumental music, 
and large photographs of newborn babies, the mid-
wifery department looks and feels a little like a womb—
comforting, quiet, red-tinted. During a tour of the 
department for October’s National Midwifery Week, 
nurse-midwife Erin McMahon reached up to brush a 
crumb off my sweater, a bracelet inscribed with “Kind-
ness Changes Everything” sliding up her arm. Tradi-
tional boundaries of personal space seem to melt away. 

Nearly every midwife, nurse, or doula would nudge me 
to make a point, or let their hands rest on my arm while 
we laughed. Someone even grabbed a pen from my 
back pocket while my hands were full. 

Although ob/gyns meet with patients many times before 
the birth, the visits tend to be physical exams. Nurse Katie 
Brady, who has been at ynhh for thirty years, sees midwife 
care as a more holistic alternative. “The difference between 
midwifery care and the, how shall I say it?” she asked, turn-
ing to her co-workers, “the traditional medical model? … It’s 
more supportive, a more calming environment.” 

Founded in 1956, Yale’s professional midwifery program 
is one of the oldest in the country. It was born during a 
period of decline in midwifery, as ob/gyns replaced mid-
wives as the primary caregivers for pregnant women in the 
1950s. Practicing nurse Michelle Telfer attributes the shift 
away from midwives to changing attitudes toward wom-
en’s health in the early twentieth century. “Pregnancy 
came to be seen more as pathological, more as a disease to 
be treated, more as a danger to women’s health,” she said. 

As birth became clinical, midwives’ traditional approach 
led to the stereotype that they were “unclean witches 
with gnarled hands,” said associate professor of nursing 
Heather Reynolds. 

ob/gyns delivered almost all American babies until 
the feminist revolution of the 1970s when, Reynolds said, 
“women started to look for alternatives to heavy sedation 
and started to demand a family birth experience.” This 
shifted ob/gyn practices—fathers were allowed in the 
delivery room for the ﬁrst time, and caregivers began to 
emphasize nutrition, cultural needs, and the physical 
changes of pregnancy. This change in attitudes also led 
to an uptick in midwife-assisted births. (According to the 
Centers for Disease Control, between 1975 and 2002, the 
percentage of midwife-assisted births rose from less than 
one percent to 8.2 percent.) 

Midwives try to maintain an air of unique approachabil-
ity. The word “midwife” comes from the Germanic Middle 
English root of “mid” (meaning with) and “wife” (meaning 
woman): “with-woman.” The etymology reveals the their 
role as one of accompaniment and support. As explained to 
me by Richard Jennings, the only male nurse-midwife on 
the Yale team, “midwife” refers to the gender of the mother,


--- Page 11 ---
OCTOBER 2015
 11
rather than the healthcare provider. “What do you call a 
male midwife?” he asked me. “A midwife?” I answered, con-
fused. “No,” he joked. “A delivery boy.”

In America, most babies are still delivered by an ob/
gyn. In almost every other country, midwives, both male 
and female, deliver most children, with ob/gyns only 
involved when complications occur. According to Oakes-
Sand, American women fear birth and labor pain more 
than women in other cultures. She pointed to a study in 
which scientists asked women in Japan whether they were 
afraid of childbirth, and their responses indicated that 
they seemed surprised that anyone would be. Describing 
her sense of the prevailing attitude in Japan, she said, “I 
might be afraid of a tsunami, or a volcano, but birth? Why 
would I be afraid of birth?” 

For many American women, childbirth is pathol-
ogized—an event of hospitals, screaming, and white-
coated doctors. “We are taught to fear pain,” practicing 
nurse midwife Michelle Telfer said, “but labor pain is dif-
ferent.” Many ob/gyns try to eliminate pain with epidur-
als, which numb women from the waist down. Though 
midwives offer epidurals, they prefer to use alternative 
methods of pain management. “It doesn’t mean she has to 
go through it unmedicated,” said Telfer, “but our bodies 
work, and it can be a very powerful experience for women 
to go through that process.” Back in the labor room, 
Degennaro pointed to a tank of nitrous oxide, or laughing 
gas, which some women use to alleviate pain and relax. 

Animatedly, she told of one woman’s birthing process in 
which, “We laughed her baby out.” 

“Laughing a baby out” constitutes a radically different 
image than the conventional one of an American soon-
to-be-mom: sweat-drenched, screaming, ﬂat on her back. 
Looking around at the props in the labor room, giving 
birth with a midwife seems more like a new exercise class 
fad than The Most Painful Experience Ever.

Yale’s health care plan does not cover birth through 
midwifery for undergraduates, graduate students, or fac-
ulty. The only option available under the Yale health plan 
is an ob/gyn birth. Among American health care plans, 
this is fairly common.

Still, the ubiquity of ob/gyn births in the United States 
can come as a shock to people from other countries—most 
international health care plans do cover midwifery care. At 
Yale, Telfer said, the response of many foreign faculty and 
graduate students is, “What do you mean, we don’t have 
midwife care?” 

When I met Sarah, a young Israeli doctoral student, 
she was bouncing her nine-month-old daughter, coo-
ing to her. Sarah, whose name has been changed at  
her request, delivered her daughter with an ob/gyn via 
cesarean section. As C-sections go, she said, she had 
the best possible experience, but she would have pre-
ferred a vaginal delivery.

Though these procedures are routine and low-risk, a 
cesarean section is, as Telfer described it, “major abdom-
inal surgery” that should be used only as a last resort. 
The cdc reports that 32.7 percent of American women 
gave birth via C-section in 2013, more than double the 
recommended regional rate of the World Health Organi-
zation. As one nurse, who wished to remain anonymous, 
said, the mindset of many in the medical ﬁeld is such 
that “one intervention”—such as an epidural—“leads 
to another,”—such as an episiotomy, the cutting of the 
vagina to allow the baby more room—“to another,”—a 
C-section. Midwives, who generally employ fewer inter-
ventions, have C-section rates of six percent. 

Sarah believes that she could have avoided a C-sec-
tion had she worked with a midwife. “I just thought the 
C-section was unnecessary,” she said, shrugging. “I had 
perfect conditions: I am big, I had a small baby, I had full 
dilation. I pushed and pushed and pushed and for three 
hours, she didn’t come out. I am sure that if I would have 
been moving…” Sarah trailed off. But believes that the 
alternative tactics of midwifery, like walking, would have 
allowed her to give birth vaginally. 

Women and couples covered by the Yale Health Plan 
seeking midwife care have two options: give birth with 
an ob/gyn or pay out of pocket. This often proves too 
costly—according to the pregnancy website What to 
Expect, a birthing center birth costs about three thousand 
dollars. Telfar explained that many of her patients who 
pay out of pocket choose a home birth, which can cost 
as little as ﬁfteen hundred dollars. “It’s cheaper overall,” 
she said, “but for women who don’t feel comfortable with 
that, they don’t have much of an option.”

 “I would have come here, [to the midwifery ward] if 
it had been covered,” Sarah said. “I tried. I asked if I can, 
they said no, and so I just accepted it.” Sarah intends to 
purchase another health care plan to have her next child 
at St. Raphael’s midwifery department. 

Though women like Sarah turn to midwives to gain 
more control over their births, midwifery remains unpop-
ular among New Haven residents and Americans alike—
hence the need for tours like the one in October. As I 
packed my camera away and readied myself to leave, 
nurse-midwife Melanie Albright shrugged. “We help 
them write their own stories,” she said of the mothers she 
and the other Yale midwives have helped. “Anything we 
can do to get the word out.” With that, she turned to show 
another small group around the ﬂoor. 

— Amelia Nierenberg is a sophomore 
in Timothy Dwight College



**Title: THE SECOND FRONTLINE**
**Author: Semhal Tsegaye**
**Page number(s): 12**

 12
THE SECOND FRONTLINE
S N A P S H O T
Afghan interpreters face the costs of political refuge
Semhal Tsegaye
as we walk down the unlit hallway of his apartment 
near West River Memorial Park in New Haven, Reza 
Noori allows me just a glance into the bedroom that he 
shares with two other men. Their mattresses lie edge-
to-edge on the ﬂoor. Smiling shyly, he pushes back his 
full, black curls. He’s tired from his day of work at a 
deli in Westport, bookended by an hour-long commute 
in rush hour trafﬁc. “What I am earning here, this is 
not enough for me to live, spend for college, and also 
support my family. So my living conditions are not 
good, but I live with that. It is okay,” Noori says. 

After working as a translator for the United States 
armed forces in Afghanistan, Noori was one of eigh-
teen recipients of the U.S. Special Immigrant Visa 
(SIV) bound for New Haven. Established in 2009, 
the visa program aids Afghan and Iraqi nationals who 
worked for U.S. forces in their home countries. In 
order to receive an SIV, Noori had to prove that he 
was employed by the U.S. forces for at least one year 
and had experienced serious threats due to this service. 
Letters of recommendation attested to his four years of 
hard work.  

“When you’re working for Americans, when you risk 
your life, you’re under threat every second, every time, 
every day, every morning, every night,” Noori says. “You 
can’t trust anybody, you can’t trust your neighbors, you 
can’t trust even your relatives because they can be in 
connection with the Taliban.” 

Noori received his visa through the SIV program in 
2013, two years after applying, because the background 
checks of the Department of State and the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security take a prohibitively long 
time. Between 2009 and 2013, Congress authorized 
7,900 Afghan visas through the SIV program, but due 
to political backlog, only around two thousand were 
issued. According to the Associated Press, a diplomatic 
cable sent by U.S. Ambassador Karl Eikenberry in 
2010 voiced a fear that “the SIV program could drain 
[Afghanistan] of our very best civilian and military part-
ners: our Afghan employees.” Eikenberry also proposed 
to make the legal standard of “ongoing serious threat” 
more stringent, making it harder to issue SIVs. 

The U.S. government does not release the number 
of SIV applicants, but in total, ﬁfty thousand Iraqis 
and Afghans are estimated to have worked as interpret-



**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: Semhal Tsegaye**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
ers for U.S. troops during a decade and a half of war. 

After years of protests by Afghan translators, stories of 
SIV applicants getting killed by the Taliban while they 
waited for their visas, and fears that the program would 
end when coalition combat forces withdrew, Congress 
expanded the total allotment of SIVs by four thousand 
in 2014. But this addition has not made the bureaucracy 
move faster. By late March 2015, more than thirteen 
thousand Afghan applicants were still waiting for their 
paperwork to be processed. 

Like many interpreters, Noori hoped that his work 
would enable him to have a comfortable life in the U.S, 
with a shot at a professional degree. But, as he balances a 
job at a deli and English coursework at Gateway Commu-
nity College, he is struggling to reach this goal. 

We meet at Gateway one fall evening, where he is 
working on homework following a day of classes. After 
greeting me with a wide smile and a handshake, he 
tells me how he conﬁgures his schedule so that he can 
work and attend classes part-time. He hopes his educa-
tion will prepare him for better jobs in the U.S. 

David Williams, the American civilian advisor for 
whom Noori was an interpreter, believes that young 
Afghan men like Noori become interpreters partly 
because they want to come to the U.S. When Noori 
found out he was being resettled in New Haven, Wil-
liams helped him ﬁnd the city on a map and tried 
to give him an idea of his soon-to-be home. “I knew 
the background of New Haven and Yale University,” 
Williams says. “And I was like, Noori, I’m telling you 
brother... look where they sent [you]: to the hub of 
one of the best universities in the world. Maybe or 
maybe not you go there, but you’re gonna be in that 
environment and just being in that environment, 
you’re gonna grow.” 

But between a full schedule of work and school, 
along with the stress of worrying about his family in 
Afghanistan, Noori’s reality has been far removed from 
Yale. His only exposure to the University has been 
through a College alum, assigned as a cultural com-
panion by the Integrated Refugee and Immigrant Ser-
vices (IRIS). 

Williams, who worked at the Afghan National Police 
(ANP) Command Center in Kabul, estimates that he’s 
worked with hundreds of interpreters, and Noori was one 
of two for whom he decided to write a letter of recommen-
dation. He remembers Noori as “very educationally-ori-
ented” and well respected among their colleagues. The 
two worked side-by-side, advising high-ranking Afghan 
ofﬁcials who were training the ANP. 

“They’re essential to the police mission,” Williams 
says of his interpreters. “How do you communicate with 
this [Afghan ofﬁcial] without a language assistant?”

In New Haven, Noori lives alongside other former 
interpreters who are struggling to make lives for them-
selves. As we stand in the kitchen, his ﬂatmates pile out 
of the car carrying groceries, and we walk out of the 
house to meet them. Noori grasps the hand of each 
man in greeting and introduces me to his cousin, 
Ahmad Fawad, who is slightly shorter and more out-
spoken than Noori. He has light wrinkles on the cor-
ners of his eyes. Also unmarried, Fawad came to the 
U.S. alone. 

After decades of war that ravaged the country’s infra-
structure, Fawad says that facilitating the work between 
the coalition forces and the ANP was a way to support 
peace. “I wanted to work with them to help my people. 
To have a better life and better security in my coun-
try,” Fawad says. By the time the Taliban took control of 
Afghanistan at the onset of the 1996 civil war, Fawad’s 
family had ﬂed for Kabul. He was out of school for 
seven years, unwilling to submit to the violent author-
ity of teachers in the Taliban-run classroom. 

Fawad recalls a near-death experience when he was 
accompanying an American ﬁrearms team. Before 
entering a shooting range, they detected an Improvised 
Explosive Device (IED) intended for them. Thank-
fully, they were able to avoid it. 

Oftentimes, interpreters are called on to enter high-
risk situations such as these because their language 
skills are indispensible. But the support offered to 
them is far less than what is given to U.S. soldiers and 
veterans, Noori points out. While the U.S. troops that 
the interpreters work with can make upwards of ﬁve 
ﬁgures per year, Noori made 425 dollars each month 
while working with the U.S in Afghanistan. Today, far 
from his family and far from his home, he makes about 
ﬁfteen to sixteen hundred dollars a month He pays 
around 180 dollars per month to share a bedroom with 
three other men in order to cope with the high living 
costs in New Haven. 

EVEN WHILE HE DREAMS  
OF  REUNITING WITH HIS  
FAMILY HERE, HE  CONSIDERS 
WHAT IT WOULD BE LIKE TO  
GO BACK TO AFGANISTAN IN  
THE DISTANT FUTURE


Noori claims there is not adequate support for ref-
ugees trying to plan for long-term futures in the U.S. 
In December of 2014, the New Haven Independent 
covered Noori and other interpreters’ grievances with 
IRIS, which is the ﬁrst point of contact for most ref-
ugees or immigrants who come to New Haven. IRIS 
receives funding from the U.S. Department of State, 
Health and Human Services, and an array of private 
companies and churches, but it is often underfunded. 
And with just seven case managers to oversee the two 
hundred refugees IRIS re-settles annually, it is often 
understaffed. The organization allocates a 925-dollar 
lump sum for each refugee to spend in the ﬁrst three 
months, primarily on rent, utilities, and other basic 
necessities, but then refugees are largely on their own. 

Even a good degree from Afghanistan doesn’t count for 
much in the U.S, so former interpreters like Noori have 
to work low-wage jobs. Noori studied for about three 
years at Kabul University in Afghanistan, but he had 
to start his education over again in the U.S. If he con-
tinues his studies at his current pace, he is about two 
years from ﬁnishing his degree. While he is committed 
to succeeding in the U.S, he mentions that some inter-
preters prefer to try their chances in Afghanistan rather 
than struggling here. 

Noori and Fawad stay in contact with their fam-
ilies in Afghanistan over Facebook and Skype and 
wait until the day they bring their families to the 
U.S. The SIV program issues visas only to the princi-
pal applicant, their spouse, and unmarried children 
under 21 years old, but not to applicants’ fathers, 
mothers, or siblings. After five years of living in the 
U.S, interpreters can use the green cards they are 
issued to bring their families. Noori’s parents, two 
brothers, and two sisters are currently waiting for 
him to bring them to the U.S, the fear of reprisal 
from the Taliban looming over them.  

Even while he dreams of reuniting with his family 
here, he considers what it would be like to go back to 
Afghanistan in the distant future, perhaps with a doc-
torate that would enable him to work as a minister or a 
member of parliament. Maybe he would join the U.S. 
military to work both in Afghanistan and gain the ben-
eﬁts of being a U.S. soldier. For now, the Afghanistan 
that Noori, Fawad, and the other interpreters hope to 
see is not within reach. Nor is the life that they expected 
in the U.S., where they’ve now had to suspend their 
dreams. Despite these disappointments, Noori says that 
he would work with U.S. forces again if he could. 

Noori and his housemates wash a plate of apples 
from the recently bought groceries, insisting that 
I take at least one for the moment and another for 
the way home. They seem to have formed their own  
family in this small apartment, bonded by a common 
language and the daily grind. They stand around the 
kitchen, exchanging jokes and helping each other 
prepare food, doing what they can to achieve a sem-
blance of normalcy. 

Despite the support of his New Haven family, Noori 
is always worried about the tenuous situation with his 
family back home in Afghanistan. “My family, they’re 
really under serious threat right now, so it’s very chal-
lenging for me to be here,” Noori says. “All of my mind 
is back home.”
— Semhal Tsegaye is a senior 
in Timothy Dwight College



**Title: out fencing new pasture**
**Author: Justine Cefalu**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I am tied
by a golden ribbon,
umbilical cord of late afternoon,
to the ground.
The land is a constellation
of clapboard houses
ringed by purple lupine.
Hedgerows are cracks,
threads tracing edges
where light blooms,
the gold-green, green-gold
of a ﬁeld dotted with sheep.
I am kneeling,
my arms around the warm belly
of a deep-brown ewe.
I scooped her stillborn lamb,
soft-boned, into a box,
and now I am milking out her thick cream
onto grass,
feeding ﬁelds.


**Title: SACAR**
**Author: Devon Geyelin**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

andalucía has fewer words than I do. One of my 
professors here tells me English has three or four ways 
of saying anything in Castilian, Spain’s most-spoken 
Spanish, the one we speak here, in Granada. Some 
say the ratio’s more like 2-to-1. The comparison gets 
harder when you think about all the country’s unof-
ﬁcial tongues—Basque, Catalan, Galician—but going 
by my ﬁve-pound Spanish-English dictionary, the lim-
it’s on the Castilian side. Sometimes I like that about 
Spanish, that there’s less of it. Madura: it means both 
ripe and mature, and I like how the word cups all the 
touchable time, from beginning until the start of decay.
But I’m living in a university city where it took my 
friend Anabel a ﬁve-minute walk to think of more than 
three ways to say she had sex. First: foyar, to fuck, which 
young people use. Then the formal ways—tener sexo, 
tener relaciones sexuales, practicar sexo—which they 
don’t. Acostarse con, to sleep with, for an in-between. 
And a few minutes later we had me lo tiré, or me la tiré, 
depending on the sex of the direct object. That you 
can say if your friend points someone out in the street. 
I fucked him; I fucked her. The direct translation is 
something about throwing him to yourself.
So that’s six. “We are simple, I guess,” said Anabel. 
In America, we do all of those, besides admit to need-
ing practice. But there’s enough vocabulary that I feel 
like half of my relationships are spent trying to decide 
how to classify our sex, if only to myself. We banged, 
screwed, nailed, made love. I tapped, hit, did. Got 
lucky, got it on, got busy, got down, got laid. Knew, in 
the biblical sense. Or knew him better last year.
The Spanish verb for taking a photograph is sacar: 
to take out or remove. You sacar la basura (take out 
the trash); sacar dinero (withdraw money); sacar parte 
del cuerpo (stick out a body part); sacar defectos (show 
someone the defects). In English, the language is sim-
ilar—you take a photograph; it is taken. But there’s 
something about the added out that contributes to the 
feeling I often have in Granada of reaching for some-
thing that isn’t mine to take.
I will be here for ﬁve months, and it’s been two and 
a half weeks now. I’ve had time to walk around with my 
camera. I’ve been around the Alhambra and the pub-
lic gardens, with the peacocks; the old Jewish quarter; 
the white Albaicín. The other day I was following a 
road that curved along and inside a high school tucked 
into a hill, in Sacromonte, the sector on the far side 
of the mountain, where things are more residential. 
There were a lot of trees, and it was very quiet, and the 
gates had been open; but at one point there was a girl 
who saw me through the window of her classroom and 
I thought, what made me think I’m entitled to be here?
There is a tourist habit that I’ve noticed, and that I 
have, of visiting foreign countries and photographing 
doors, windows, and clotheslines. So European, how 
the bras are swinging around up there, the lace backlit 
by the sky. How the doors are colorful, and smaller, and 
the windows have shutters that people actually open 
and close. The clotheslines are especially exciting, like 
an open-air gallery where the artist’s intimacies haven’t 
even been abstracted. Visually, I like them, and I like 
the doors, and it’s my instinct—American or human, or 
personal, I don’t know—to claim what I see and like. I 
can’t help wanting certain colors or angles or gestures 
for my personal archives, so I have a small sketchbook, 
too, that I keep with me, especially if I don’t want to 
carry around my camera.

through by his cross-topped staff. Pomegranates grow 
on trees here. When ripe, some open themselves.
At home, at school a year ago, my friend Jake told 
me he thought it was sad, the way people hooked up 
with each other and said it didn’t mean anything. That 
people got drunk and let themselves be public in their 
looking for intimacy, and everyone was looking for it, 
but then you woke up in the morning and nothing was 
there. I said maybe, not always. A lot of the time people 
just want that feeling of being wanted for a little. The 
two are not the same, always.
The other night a guy was walking me home, to the 
Spanish dorm I was staying at before I moved in with 
my host family. I started talking to him about a book 
I had almost packed but didn’t, because there wasn’t 
space. It’s called I Want to Show You More. I bought 
it on Amazon a while ago. From what I remember, it’s 
stories, I think about sex, written by a woman. I trailed 
off, though, when describing it, because I realized the 
only reason I was bringing it up was that I felt that way 
then, like there was more I wanted to show him, and 
I didn’t think I knew him well enough to tell him I 
wanted him to know me better.
Show is only half right. It’s a mixture of wanting to 
give, like give of myself, and show, and share. Express 
sounds like it should work, but it doesn’t. The word 
might be reveal, and in a question. How much do you 
want to see? 
In Spanish, conquistar is the verb with which you 
win someone’s love. There are others—enamorarse 
con, amelcocharse, encampanarse (this one I like: it 
also means to become complicated, get difﬁcult)—but 
conquistar is the one you can do to someone. In my 
dictionary from 1989, conquistador translates to three 
things: conqueror; conquering, in adjective form; and 
lady-killer. [And I found one more word for sex: enca-
marse con—to sleep with someone, though without 
the con it means instead to fall ill or to be beaten down, 
like wheat, under wind or rain.
But it bothers me to see a woman come out of her 
home and catch me photographing her neighbor’s win-
dow, or her cat. Drawing seems better, but I don’t know 
if it is—better because old people think it’s charming, 
and that’s validating, maybe; or because laying some-
thing down in your own hand automatically denotes 
a degree of human error. You put yourself into it, you 
leave something behind. On good days, I decide that’s 
a compromise—that my drawing something is fair 
because I’m making something new, that belongs to 
me as much as it does to the subject I’ve refracted. On 
bad days, I think maybe it’s worse, that I’m assuming 
an intimacy that grants me the authority to re-interpret 
what I don’t understand. 
I don’t feel like such a voyeur in America, maybe 
because there I’m only ever taking what feels like mine. 
This land is your land; this land is my land. In some 
defensible way, I’m only claiming what I already have. 
But Spain does not have these songs, or this sentiment. 
Or at least she hasn’t shared it with me.
I took a writing class last semester called At Home 
in America. We read personal essays and narrative 
nonfiction, all focused on the experience of being 
an American, in America. My professor quoted Joan 
Didion, often. “A place belongs forever to whoever 
claims it hardest, remembers it most obsessively, 
wrenches it from itself, shapes it, renders it, loves it 
so radically that he remakes it in his image.” Then 
we would go home and tried to lay verbal claim to 
what we were trying to see. 
But now I am in a city in a country that people 
have been claiming, hard, for centuries. Conquest, 
re-conquest, inquisition, exile; centuries of constant 
inter-kingdom warfare. For a language with a third as 
many words as I’ve grown up with, Castilian has three 
words to match my “wall.” Pared, muro, muralla—the 
last one for the sweeping stone encircling medieval 
towns. You have to enter through an archway on a walled, 
uphill road—first turn to the right, so an invader’s 
right-handed sword swing hits wall. I saw one of these 
archways in Ronda. I took a picture.
And Granada: the Moors’ last stronghold in all of 
Spain, she ﬁnally gave herself over in 1492, the same 
year Colón gained Isabel’s consent for the conquest 
I know best. That was a few miles west, in Santa Fe, 
a town Fernando built to support Granada’s siege. I 
understood it all better at Colón’s tomb, in the cathe-
dral at Sevilla. Four courtiers, representing his life-
time’s other four Spanish kingdoms, march in statue, 
each holding a corner of Colón’s cofﬁn. And Granada, 
la granada, the pomegranate, the last kingdom left 
un-Christian: she’s the fruit at the foot of the front-
right cofﬁn-bearer, opened and crushed and stabbed


IT’S ATTRACTION, AND  
INTIMACY, MAYBE; THE 
WORD LOADED COMES 
TO MIND, AS DOES  
POTENT, OR RIPE,  
THOUGH NOT MATURE



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Devon Geyelin**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
OCTOBER 2015
19
I have no problem saying a Spanish-dubbed 50 Som-
bras de Grey turned me on last night—though my 
learned vocabulary hadn’t yet covered “vaginal fis-
ting”—but I don’t want to be conquered, or some-
one’s conquest, or even claimed, I don’t think. I 
don’t have the right language for the thing I’ve been 
feeling lately. It’s attraction, and intimacy, maybe; 
the word loaded comes to mind, as does potent, 
or ripe, though not mature. I understand it mostly 
as this strange desire to purge. Can I give you my 
writing? My drawing? My talking? Is it bringing you 
closer? This weekend there were so many things I 
had to keep myself from texting him. Thirty-four is 
Paloma’s lucky number, too. The colors in Ronda 
are incredible. Are you free tomorrow? I landed on 
what Simon from Belgium told me in the hostel in 
Sevilla: During the marathon of Marrakesh they give 
the runners oranges and dates at the checkpoints. Last 
night I got home and wrote down that I felt like a 
bowl of grapes. What does that mean? Purple and 
wet, and also dry? Tart, suede-skinned? Pluckable? 
I don’t know, but now I’m touching my collarbone, 
and the question is how much he wants to see, and 
whether that will be more or less in an hour. How much 
of myself can I give to you? How much will you take?
— Devon Geyelin is a senior 
in Trumbull College
illustration by devon geyelin & ivy sanders-schneider


**Title: spiro lecture series 2015–2016 what the humanities know**
**Author: Various**
**Page number(s): 20**

spiro lecture series
2015–2016
what the humanities know
James Kenney Lecture
Amy Hungerford
Professor of English and American Studies,
Yale University
Please note: November 11 is a Wednesday.
writing the medical experience
Lisa Rosenbaum, md
Cardiologist, Brigham and Women’s Hospital; 
National Correspondent for the New England  
Journal of Medicine
has medicine failed the  
intersex community  
(and could literature save it)?
Cosponsored by the Program for Biomedical Ethics
Ilene Y. Wong, md
Urologist
  Author (as i.w. Gregorio), None of the Above
location
Cohen Auditorium, Child Study Center
nihb, e-02  
230 South Frontage Road
5:00–6:30pm
learning to see 
drawing as thinking
Barwick Lecture
Cyra Levenson
Curator of Education, 
Yale Center for British Art
internal medicine
Dillard Lecture
Terrence Holt, md
  Assistant Professor, Social Medicine,
Division of Geriatric Medicine
University of North Carolina School of Medicine
the silent curriculum
Multicultural Lecture
Students from u.s. Health Justice Course
nov 11
dec 03
dec 10
jan 14
jan 28
feb 11
5pm–6pm, Beaumont Room
Yale University School of Medicine  
333 Cedar Street, New Haven
The Program for  
Humanities in Medicine
Talks are free and open to the public.


**Title: learning to see the jerome project**
**Page number(s): 21**

J
the jerome project
Titus Kaphar
 Artist
my bright abyss
Dobihal Lecture
Christian Wiman
  Author, Editor, Translator;
Senior Lecturer, Religion and Literature
Yale Divinity School
cadaver portraits
Laura Ferguson
 Artist in Residence,
Master Scholars Program in Humanistic Medicine
nyu School of Medicine
assumptions in observation
Tara Geer
Instructor of Drawing
 Teachers College, Columbia University;
 Associate Adjunct, Professor of Art 
  Columbia College
portraits of illness and the  
call of the other
Thomas P. Duffy, md
 Professor of Medicine, 
Yale School of Medicine
marguerite rush lerner creative 
writing contest winners
The Richard Selzer Lecture
feb 25
mar 03
mar 31
apr 14
apr 28
may 05
Yale school of medicine
Director: Anna Reisman, md
Twitter @YaleMedHum
www.facebook.com/YaleHumanitiesinMedicine
Contact Karen.Kolb@yale.edu to join our listserv



**Title: The wiring of the tenure track**
**Author: Ceri Godinez**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The wiring of the tenure track
Ceri Godinez
disneyland “is the real country presented as imag-
inary to make us think other things are real,” says J.D. 
Connor, an assistant professor in the History of Art 
Department at the close of a lecture in his course on Dis- 
ney. “But the real is no longer real.”

“Mind blown,” the student next to me whispers.


As usual, when J. D. Connor speaks about ﬁlm, he 
leaves me feeling that if I listened hard enough, I, too, 
could use the clues in pop culture to unlock the invisi-
ble workings of the universe.


Professor Connor has been my faculty advisor, my 
tour guide through both America’s most iconic media 
corporation and, in a class dedicated to the JFK assas-
sination, the real-life political thriller that’s been an 
American obsession for the past ﬁfty years. More than 
2,600 Yale graduate and professional students voted 
him to be one of the humanities lecturers at the 2015 
Inspiring Yale event; more than two hundred students 
enrolled in his course on Disney this semester. But 
despite his popularity and gift for teaching, Yale has 
decided to let J. D. Connor go.


Last spring, when professor Connor informed me 
that he was up for promotion and would be on leave 
next year if all went well, I worried that I would be 
without an advisor for my junior year. Any other pos-
sible outcome never occurred to me. Until he was 
denied promotion from assistant professor to “associate 
on term,” the tenure track was something to which I 
had given little thought. When I admit this to Tamar 
Gendler, the dean of the faculty of arts and sciences, 
she tells me that, too, is a part of the tenure process: 
“There’s no reason [students] should have to know 
how the walls are wired. They just want the lights to 
be bright.”


But suddenly, a bulb was out, and I wanted to know 
why. I tried my best to perform diagnostics. I knew it 
wasn’t the bulb itself, because Connor was one of the 
best teachers I’d ever had. Instead, I turned my atten-
tion to the wiring, which I did not understand at all.


illustrations by ivy sanders-schneider


In which I learn a bit about electrical wiring
Professor Amy Hungerford, who chairs the Tenure 
and Promotions Committee for the humanities, walked 
me through the three criteria that form the basis for 
decisions on tenure—research, teaching, and service. 
It is difﬁcult for faculty to receive tenure if their teach-
ing is poor and shows no signs of improvement, she 
explained. It is equally difﬁcult when the teaching is 
superb but the scholarship is borderline. A weak pub-
lishing record is particularly lethal, in line with the 
adage, “publish or perish.”


“Research will always be the emphasis of Yale,” 
said Kathryn Lofton, a tenured faculty member who 
serves on the committee currently reviewing the ten-
ure system implemented in 2007. The committee is 
set to publish its ﬁndings in 2017, and every ten years 
thereafter. Lofton, a professor of religious studies, has 
a nose ring and a tattoo: she is hardly the image of an 
educational system entrenched in conservative ideals. 
I struggled to reconcile her words with her appearance 
and friendly demeanor.  


I wanted teaching to carry more weight and felt 
compelled to blame my misconceptions about Yale’s 
teaching emphasis on something concrete, so I settled 
on its promotional materials. I went back and watched 
“That’s Why I Chose Yale”—the giant hallmark card 
from the Admissions Ofﬁce to prospective students. 
The video opens with a tour guide ﬁelding questions 
at an info session. A young woman in the front row 
asks, “Is it true that all Yale professors teach?” The tour 
guide replies, “It is true that every tenured professor 
in Yale College teaches undergraduates…” I thought 
the tour guide would ﬁnish his sentence with some-
thing like “which shows the care and thought Yale puts 
into the classroom experience of its students.” He did 
not. Instead, the sentence ends, “… so even a freshman 
might be taking a class from a Nobel Prize winner.”


The guide was implying that prestige or, at least, 
prestige by proxy, is what we’re getting at Yale. This is 
not what I thought I was getting when I came to Yale. 
Perhaps it’s because the University’s message about low 
faculty-to-student ratios and small class sizes is what 
won me over, rather than the promise of glimpsing a 
handful of Nobel laureates. Or maybe that’s how I pre-
ferred to frame my priorities to myself when I came to 
Yale as a freshman. Regardless, I am left with the sus-
picion that I didn’t fully grasp the terms and conditions 
before clicking the “agree” button.


In which I learn that this is not the original wiring
It turns out, there are worse things than the cur-
rent tenure system. Before 2007, Yale’s tenure system 
was a far uglier beast than the one that dictates hiring 
practices today. At that time, junior faculty were hired 
without the guarantee of being considered for tenure. 
Untenured ladder faculty could not remain at Yale for 
more than ten years, so if the ten years passed and the 
department failed to ﬁnd room in its budget to hire a 
tenured professor, the faculty member would be forced 
to leave. If a department did have the resources to 
make a permanent faculty hire, it typically conducted 
a nationwide search to ﬁll the newly available senior 
position. Preference was not given to the junior faculty 
already at Yale.


I came to understand the pre-2007 system as a ten-year 
post-doc. Though Yale could not guarantee junior faculty 
job security, it could offer its untenured faculty world-
class resources, and, more importantly, the Yale seal of 
approval on any published material. Gambling ten years 
of your life on a nineteen percent chance at tenure, how-
ever, seemed a high price to pay for prestige. 


YOU CAN’T DEVELOP 
CLOSE FRIENDSHIPS 
BECAUSE THEY GET 
SWALLOWED UP BY  
THE FOG MACHINE


At the very least, the new system provides a clearer 
path toward consideration for tenure, though Lofton 
stated that the University does not keep data on likeli-
hood of tenure, so it is difficult to compare. To me, the 
reorganization seems by no means satisfactory for all. 
“It’s like The Hunger Games,” said a recently tenured 
faculty member, who I will call X as he asked not to 
be named. It is a good illustration of the contentious-
ness of this issue that out of the thirty professors I asked 
about tenure at Yale, almost all either declined to be 
interviewed or chose the safety of anonymity.  


“You can’t develop close friendships because they get 
swallowed up by the fog machine,” X said. By then end 
of the tenure process, faculty members have watched 
a good portion of their colleagues leave. When, or if, 
they make it through the process, at least some—the 
X’s of the University—have developed survivor’s guilt.


I know that I am not the ﬁrst person to reach the con-
clusion that Yale is something less than paradise for the 
untenured faculty member. This past year, there have 
been several voluntary departures in departments such 
as Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies and Afri-
can American Studies, amid criticism of Yale’s insti-
tutional culture and hiring practices, including the 
tenure process. While some people, like J. D. Connor, 
wait to ﬁnd out that they will be asked to leave, others 
go willingly to places like Columbia, Cornell, the Uni-
versity of Chicago, places where the tenure process is 
sometimes almost halved from Yale’s nine-year process 
to just ﬁve years.


In which I watch the electrician work with my 
eyes closed
The document given to newly hired faculty at Yale 
outlining the tenure process is beautifully laminated. I 
receive this exact shiny piece of paper in plastic from 
Gendler. I have the urge to run it under water. At this 
point in my interviews on the subject of tenure, I have 
heard so much about this chart that it feels like I’m 
meeting a celebrity. At the top of the page is a small, 
colorful chart, which depicts the steps of the post-2007 
tenure system in chronological order. “The fact that 
this chart even exists is an incredible achievement,” 
Lofton had told me at our earlier meeting.


I peruse the picture at my leisure, tracing the process 
from hiring, as a ﬁrst year associate professor, to the 
ﬁnal committee review for tenure. It’s a story told in 
acronyms and italics: the road many of our professors 
are on, but which few of us understand as we listen to 
their lectures and speak with them during ofﬁce hours 
or in seminars.


Junior faculty members at Yale are hired as assis-
tant professors. After leaping over a few compara-
tively lower hurdles during their first six years, they 
come up for promotion to associate professor with 
tenure or full professor (depending on their depart-
ment) in their eighth year.


If the candidate passes an internal departmental 
review, the department puts together an application 
that it brings before the Tenure and Promotions Com-
mittee for the candidate’s general area of study: human-
ities, social sciences, biological sciences, or physical 
sciences and engineering. Unlike tenure review at 
many other universities, the committee is comprised 
of senior faculty members, rather than administra-
tors. The application consists of one hundred pages of 
the applicant’s work and a minimum of seven letters 
of review from faculty in the same area of research at 
peer institutions. Gendler reads all of the professor’s 
end-of-semester teaching evaluations and builds a 
report on the candidate’s teaching abilities to present 
to the group.


The members of TAPC vote by secret ballot. In order 
to receive promotion, the applicant needs a majority. 
The content of the discussion is never disclosed to the 
candidate. But the ﬁnal outcome is simple and irrevo-
cable as best I can tell from the chart: “A candidate for 
appointment or promotion to a tenure position, whether 
at the rank of professor or associate professor, must have 
attained scholarly or creative distinction of high quality 
as demonstrated by both research and teaching. Consid-
eration for tenure emphasizes the impact and continuing 
YALE IS A PLACE 
IN WHICH THE WIRING 
IS NOT IDEAL,
BUT THE LIGHTING 
IS FLATTERING



**Title: OCTOBER 2015**
**Author: Ceri Godinez**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
OCTOBER 2015
 25
promise, at the very highest levels, of the candidate’s 
research and scholarship, as well as excellent teaching 
and engaged University citizenship within and beyond 
a department or program […] Tenured faculty at Yale 
are expected to stand among the foremost in their ﬁelds 
in the world.”
As a student, that is exactly the kind of person I want 
teaching all of my classes. But for faculty, “there is a 
general vagueness about the criteria for tenure,” as X 
tells me. “It is unclear whether two books is enough [in 
the humanities and social sciences], though some peo-
ple receive tenure having published only one book.” 
The nebulous nature of the criteria causes anxiety.
“Research, teaching, service—to excel at the high-
est level in all three is virtually impossible,” says 
Charles Musser, a tenured professor of film and 
media studies. “If they wanted to shoot you down, 
they can always find a category. At least, that was the 
feeling that was shared by my cohort group of junior 
faculty as we faced the tenure process.” Though the 
intricate process could not be described as arbitrary, 
student spectators and faculty climbing the ladder 
are left in the dark at decision time.  
X reiterated what Lofton had told me—scholarship 
is what matters; teaching and service to the University 
don’t count as much. It would be easy to blame this on 
academia more broadly, except this is not the case at all 
top-tier universities. At Cornell, for instance, where X 
studied, students are asked to write letters of evaluation 
when professors came up for tenure.  
In which I realize that meritocracy and democ-
racy are not the same type of light ﬁxture
When Gendler introduced the lighting analogy to 
me, she told me that she was curious why a student 
wanted to learn the wiring at all. I said that I didn’t 
think most undergraduates had a grasp on how the sys-
tem worked. Like me, they got upset when they lost a 
faculty member who had made a difference in their 
academic career. Most, however, had little idea as to 
what had led to a beloved teacher’s release.
Generally, we aren’t keeping tabs on who has tenure 
and who is awaiting it. “It’s great news that undergrad-
uates are not worried about who’s in what role—that 
means we are hiring great faculty across the board,” 
Gendler told me, adding that students were often not 
sensitive to the “formal University academic role of the 
faculty whom they learn from.”
I thought back to J. D. Connor’s revelatory lectures 
and felt scorned because his apparent popularity among 
students appeared to have little to no effect in dictating 
his reception by the Yale tenure machine. It felt like I 
had entered some kind of dystopian novel where the 
paternalistic government was hiding things from its cit-
izens to keep them content. Where was my ability to 
effect change? Had I ever had that ability? From Lof-
ton, I knew the current review committee was working 
hard to ﬁnd a way to better evaluate teaching in the 
tenure process and to make the entire process more 

“THERE’S NO REASON 
[STUDENTS] SHOULD
HAVE TO KNOW HOW  
THE WALLS ARE WIRED. 
THEY JUST WANT THE 
LIGHTS TO BE BRIGHT.”
— TAMAR GENDLER
DEAN OF THE FACULTY  
OF ARTS AND SCIENCES


--- Page 26 ---

 26
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
transparent, but I felt that these changes were promises 
designed to appease. By that point, people like Connor 
would already have left for other universities.
       It took a conversation with a professor study-
ing labor history to calm me down. Michael Denning, 
the current DUS of American Studies, has been at Yale 
since the 1980s, and has observed the tenure process 
through its multiple iterations. He said that in the last 
thirty years, the essence has hardly changed.
“The ethos back then—I’ll put it on the positive side, 
which is their way of seeing it—[was] to get tenure you 
must be one of the leading people in your ﬁeld. This 
maintains Yale’s rhetoric of excellence. You wouldn’t 
be here as a student if not for that.” My immediate 
impulse, as a student, was to refute this statement. I am 
not a selﬁsh person.
I opened my mouth to interrupt, but was silenced by 
his next words: “At a democratic institution, it would 
be important to understand the wiring. However, Yale 
is far from a democratic higher-education institution.” 
I had thought the tenure system was broken. But the 
problem wasn’t the system; I had made a labeling error 
in the lighting department.
In which I ﬁnd myself at the light switch
I was disappointed. Disappointed because it was my 
mistake, not theirs. Disappointed because Yale was not 
more like Disneyland. Disappointed because, more 
than anything, I felt incredibly relieved—I had been 
let off the hook.
Yale is a place in which the wiring is not ideal, but 
the lighting is ﬂattering. Though the system is far from 
humane for faculty, the research-focused rigor of the 
tenure system contributes heavily to Yale’s claim as 
one of the world’s leading academic institutions. As 
students, there is real economic value in being able to 
claim this name brand as our own. At the same time, 
we beneﬁt from a cycle of imaginative classes taught by 
new, energetic professors striving for tenure. Under the 
current tenure system, though great teaching and great 
renown may not go hand in hand, they are not mutu-
ally exclusive. But ultimately, the wiring isn’t our con-
cern as students. We can see the lights, so we know the 
system’s working ﬁne. And the self-loathing of being 
another conductive element in the great mass of wires 
will wear off by the start of the next semester. 
— Ceri Godinez is a junior 
in Calhoun College





**Title: old asphalt schoolyard**
**Author: Ruby Bilger**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Waits near a pile of kids, anyway,
“who keeps putting lizards in Polly Pocket clothes?”
the problem is considered
as they bat at their hair to keep
the breeze from affecting them. Outside
the bell tolls. Something
may be happening,
or the feeling of it—hard to remember 
until it’s happening again.
In the mean time the kids must wonder
what to call themselves, 
the niggling prettiness of luck or deadpan charity,
what glimpses live inside them and 
why they won’t develop
or why they never seem to stop waving 
at the great sheaves of preoccupied people,
who spill out of doorways to swell 
with the promise of their fullness
and the daily gab,
and hey, sorry, can’t talk right now,
I have to go to secret class.


**Title: The Mexican town of Tetlanohcan grapples with New Haven’s LQÁXHQFH**
**Author: Sebi Medina-Tayac**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“get in, guero [white boy], it’s cold out here,” said Dan-
iel Mendieta, naked in the mountain air. He leaned 
out of the temazcal built at the edge of the cornﬁeld. 
The sweat lodge, bathed in crisp moonlight, had been 
in the family’s backyard for generations—it was the 
site of their monthly puriﬁcation steam baths. I un-
dressed, placed my clothes on a dusty wooden chair, 
and crawled into the candlelit opening.

Inside, Daniel threw a shallow bowl of water into the 
black hole of an antechamber in the corner of the lodge. 
The charred wooden logs within released a sooty vapor. It 
pulled on my skin with a familiar wet heat. My communi-
ty, the Piscataway Indian Nation in Maryland, has a simi-
lar puriﬁcation practice. This guero was an inﬁltrado—an 
undercover Indian.

“In the old days, only the gods were allowed to bathe 
in the temazcal,” Daniel said, kneeling next to me. “Now 
we are allowed.” Since European contact, the gods of this 
remote town in the highlands of Tlaxcala, Mexico, are 
composites: traditional ﬁgures like the mother goddess 
Tonantizin have been syncretized with Catholic saints, 
such as La Virgen de Guadalupe. Principal in the town 
of San Francisco Tetlanohcan is, of course, the beloved 
patron San Francisco de Asis, who dwells in the parochial 
church in the central square, a ten-minute walk from the 
Mendieta house.

A temazcal crouched behind most of the houses I vis-
ited in the farming town in Mexico’s smallest state, Tlax-
cala. Though it was one of the ﬁrst footholds of Catholi-
cism in the country, the state preserved many of its older 
rituals. People like Daniel, a 21-year-old courier for the 
state government building, have kept the traditions alive. 
Nowadays, however, most of the ten thousand residents 
of Tetlanohcan don’t use their sweat lodges, Daniel ex-
plained between heaves of steamy breath. “People get 
embarrassed to use the temazcal. They think it’s too hick.”

Outside, corn stalks creaked in the cold mountain 
breeze and the pigs snored. Inside the one-story Mendie-
ta house, where I stayed during my time in Tetlanohcan, 
the rest of the family ﬁlled the house with activity. Dan-
iel’s father, Bernardo, and his youngest brother, Aldo, 18, 
browsed the Spanish offerings on Netﬂix; his sister Elena, 
23, reheated mole and tortillas; Daniel’s young wife and 
baby son sat on the ground clapping hands, and his sister 
Jackie, 19, video-chatted their older brother Francisco—
who lives in New Haven, Connecticut.

Francisco and his two siblings made the perilous trip 
North when he was 16 years old. He followed in the foot-
steps of over a thousand other Tetlanohquences who have 
come to New Haven since the 1980s. Roughly ﬁfteen 
percent of the town’s population lives here—some with 
documentation, some without. Tetlanohcan’s migrants 
naturally choose a location where they have relatives and 


friends, who offer job opportunities and a social network. 
Now, the remittances from Francisco’s job at a restaurant 
in Orange, Connecticut, pay for the screen that allows 
him to talk to his sister. They pay for his siblings’ edu-
cation and some of their food. They also subsidize his 
father’s traditional campesino lifestyle in a globalizing 
economy stacked against small-town farmers, especially 
those in largely indigenous communities.

New Haven’s Mexican population is a huge presence 
in the city. Traditional music plays on the streets in Fair 
Haven and the Hill, Mexican-run businesses dominate 
the neighborhoods, and the immigrant communities in-
ﬂuence the city’s political landscape. Tetlanohcan is the 
town that shows most acutely what has happened to the 
places they have left behind. While people have streamed 
in from other cities in Tlaxcala and the neighboring me-
tropolis of Puebla, from no other town has New Haven 
lured a comparably signiﬁcant fraction.

The money that migrants wire home is a complex 
force—it separates families and ushers in a corrosive 
American consumerism, all the while propping up Tet-
lanohcan’s traditional practices and allowing the town to 
survive economic shifts. For the young Mendietas, this 
contradiction is just normal life in Tetlanohcan, as they 
and others who have tilled the land for millennia work to 
hold their lost brothers and sisters close.

Over the course of the week, Elena Mendieta spreads 
her clothes in the grass to dry under the sun, draws water 
from the well to wash the dishes, and makes tortillas by 
hand from corn grown on her family plot. The crop is 
notably absent from the bouquet of produce sold at the 
weekly farmers’ market that takes up the entire central 
plaza, simply because everyone has a lot of it already. 
Corn used to be the main currency in Tetlanohcan, ex-
changed by the kilo for other goods. Since the market 
value of the crop has dropped, only the most dedicated 
farmers get up at dawn every week to barter with corn. 
Many just store the corn for themselves or sell it to the 
government for a few cents per kilo.

The Mendieta siblings grew up in a post-NAFTA world, 
one formed by the 1994 trade agreement that many say 
accelerated the destruction of the campesino lifestyle in 
Mexico and forced a consumer culture on people who 
had previously been self-reliant. Studies published in the 
wake of NAFTA showed a sharp drop in domestic corn 
sales in Mexico as larger buyers switched over to newly 
subsidized imported U.S. corn, starving rural and indige-
nous communities across the country. But in Tetlanohcan, 
Jackie says, there is only Mexican corn—blue, white, yel-
low, and sweet. “Why would we import our corn?” she 
laughs, bewildered, shaking a tall corn out of the sea of 
swaying stalks.

“When I was a little girl, I used to run through the corn 
stalks and feel the leaves tickle my face,” she said. “They 
grab your clothes a bit, and it feels funny.”

Corn is no longer proﬁtable, so many Tetlanoquences 
start family side businesses to support their farms—ﬂoor-
ing is the region’s most popular trade. And families rely on 
remittances sent home by relatives in the U.S. The mon-
ey puts TVs and cable in the humble concrete-ﬂoored 
living rooms; it sends siblings to school and university; it 
makes sure families have better clothes and three meals  
a day.    

“We used to only eat two meals a day, just something 
very small, beans and tortillas. Not a lot but that’s how it 
was,” said Francisca Rosette, gesturing toward her court-
yard in a disjointed low-ceilinged house. “We never used 
to have houses like this. Now [some people] are even 
building two-story houses here.”

The workers in New Haven, who may never return to 
their Tetlanohcan, are a spectral force in their hometown. 
Their vacated homes, ostentatious for the town but still 
smaller than the average house in the Connecticut sub-
urbs, often remain unoccupied. These dwellings repre-
sent the promise of homecoming that can take decades to 
realize, and the money that goes towards expanding each 
home sometimes fails to arrive. By the polluted pond on 
a foothill of La Malintzin, the construction of a huge 
neoclassical concrete mansion was put on hold when 
the owner was laid off his construction job in New York. 
Young men now steal and resell bricks from the unstable 
shell of his palace.

Back in Jackie’s yard, she tells me about the social issues 
that come with the imported cash. Unemployment remains 
high, as does crime. Corn is no longer just the staple of agri-
cultural life. “At night, the corn makes me nervous because 
robbers hide between the stalks along the road.” She point-
ed with her lips at a dilapidated shack in a cornﬁeld by her 
house. Dogs wrestled in the front and two men in tank tops 
stared at something far beyond us.

“Those are thieves,” she said.

The men and others like them illustrate the great social 
risk associated with leaving one’s children behind, even 
with the objective of providing for them from afar. Lu-
cia Rosette, another woman in Tetlanohcan, explained 
the problem this way: with their own children and other 
responsibilities to care for, relatives can’t always provide 
the same care as a child’s parents, so generations of youth 
grow up unsupervised. She sees too many tired abuelos 
and too many of their grandchildren joining gangs, com-
mitting violence in the town, and becoming alcoholics, 
potheads, or drug addicts—several women interviewed 
corroborated the social shift anecdotally. Over chipping 
murals and political ads, “La Maﬁa” is tagged in bright 
orange on many prominent walls.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On my way into the town for the ﬁrst time, a thin, tattooed man in his early twenties got on a crowded convi (rural transport) and turned on a tape player with a melancholy hip hop beat. He freestyle rapped in absent monotone about his effort to make a living without being on the streets. He ended by thanking everyone on the transport and holding out his hand for donations.


It’s the same convi Jackie now takes every day to commute to Tlaxcala University, where her classes are paid for by her brother in New Haven.


While Jackie’s path forward has allowed her to stay close to home, her brothers’ and sisters’ plans took them thousands of miles away. During my visit, the Mendieta clan walked together to weddings and the weekly market, dinner parties and the bus stop. Bernardo extended a rough hand into his cousin’s pickup, and waved to an aunt sitting on her porch. Every aspect of Tetlanohcan society is arranged around extended family, but everyone seems to be missing a lot of it. The missing Mendietas and their young children have been pictures on the wall for over a decade.


“I haven’t seen my son in eleven years,” Bernardo Mendieta said with an uncharacteristic tremble in his voice. “It’s a long time, a very long time.”


His children are unable to visit because they are worried they won’t be able to get back into the U.S. Bernardo himself was caught by the border patrol while trying to cross into California in the early 1990s. They took his fingerprints and deported him. He made it into the country on his second attempt, but he worked in the states for only a few months before returning to Tetlanohcan voluntarily. Decades later, this ink on his record, which many men and women in the community have, keeps him from getting a visa to visit.


People in the town send their family members goods in the mail to remind them what home is like: traditional foods, herbal medicine, and carnival regalia all travel to New Haven for events like the San Francisco carnival, a continuation of a pre-Hispanic tradition recreated in a parking lot by the Mill River. One shipping storefront stands between a dirt road by a cornfield in Mexico, and another between my house on Elm Street and Stop and Shop. But mail is not enough.


In order to cope with the seemingly universal experience of family separation in the town, Tetlanohcan women organized into a support group called the Indigenous Migrant Family Resource Center (CAFAMI), which acknowledges their indigenous heritage as part of their larger project to reclaim the town’s traditional culture. Marco Castillo, an indigenous social anthropologist from Puebla, helped form the group in the early 2000s. Benjamin Cuapio, a gruff farmer who lived in New Haven for over a decade, donated a house for CAFAMI to use about ten years ago. It sits in the shadow of La Malintzin, a titanic dormant volcano that presides over the entire valley of Tlaxcala.


At the house, a fluctuating group of roughly fifty women meets weekly to talk about the absence of family, participate in workshops on feminism (previously an unfamiliar concept in the town, they said), and practice traditional songs in Nahuatl. But there’s a decidedly pragmatic edge to their work: they have turned their personal stories of the migrant family experience, mixed with traditional song and dance, into a performance to be staged far beyond Tetlanohcan. The goal is not only to showcase traditional culture, but also to secure tickets to the U.S. with the help of sponsoring educational institutions and grassroots organizations. Threatened by American cultural influence and the town’s gradual population loss, these indigenous practices allowed them to temporarily visit their estranged relatives in the U.S. and to see the lives those families had built for themselves.


Between 2008 and 2012, CAFAMI traveled to New York and New Haven three times to perform in theaters at Yale and in Fair Haven. Audiences watched “La Casa Rosa,” a musical in English, Spanish, and Nahuatl recounting one family’s experience through the pain and complexity of migration. But the real drama occurred hours before, off stage, as the actors reunited with their siblings, parents, and children, who many hadn’t seen in over a decade.


“When I was there with my brother Francisco, I was reminded of something very old, a part of me I hadn’t felt in a very long time,” Jackie said. “I still always, always miss that feeling.”


CAFAMI’s project, however, began to slow in recent years. Some attribute it to personal divisions between the women. Others say the group was hurt by Castillo’s departure to Mexico City to run the Migrant Families’ Popular Assembly (APOFAM), an organization that uses the Tetlanohcan model to revitalize traditional cultures and find alternative ways to visit relatives in the U.S, as access to visas remains difficult.


But the absence of CAFAMI’s support has not stopped people like Jackie from thinking of how to make moves. She is impatient to see her brothers and sister again and is hustling to make it happen. Her half-formed plans for reorganizing the women and finding a way to get back to the U.S. include applying for a startup grant and exporting traditional candies or indigenous herbal medicines to New Haven, so they could travel on a business visa.


In the meantime, families make do with long-distance contact. Calling cards are quickly becoming an artifact as migrant communities add Facebook, FaceTime, and Skype to their toolkit, keeping their bridges over the tall border fence. In my research for this article, I coordinated with the Mendietas, my contacts at the Migrant Families Popular Assembly in Mexico City, and countless sources in both Tetlanohcan and New Haven through Facebook messenger. With dicey cell service, even the older folks are picking up on their children’s technologies to stay in touch.


When I asked him about the impact of technology on Tetlanohcan, Bernardo said, “You mean this sickness?” His rough hands hit his daughter’s cracked LG smartphone touch screen. “Well, it helps. I can see my children’s faces.”


Other families are luckier than the Mendietas. Migrants with legal residence in the U.S., like Oscar De La Rosa, who has lived in New Haven for twenty-five years, allowed me to tag along with him on his visit home. De La Rosa traveled to New Haven from San Pedro Muñoztla, Tetlanohcan’s closest neighbor, in 1990, following his brother-in-law. Another relative had died on the trip north, so they went carefully. After working a variety of manual jobs, he was able to build his flooring business to a five-man crew. But since the recession in 2008, he’s been running the show himself. Things aren’t easy but he makes enough to visit his family back in Tlaxcala a few times a year—on this trip he was looking to invest in a relative’s business in San Pedro. The power was out at the festival he took me to, so the vendors flashed LED lights to attract customers like moths. He ordered a pitcher of pulque, the region’s special fermentation of mague—a succulent resembling a giant pineapple that grows by the side of roads—with the consistency of saliva.


“This is my home,” he said. “I have to come back every once in awhile to see my family and taste the air.” And the pulke. There’s no pulke in New Haven.


A two-liter bottle of soda, usually Coca-Cola, was placed on every dining table at every meal in Tetlanohcan that I visited. Mexico’s soda consumption is ranked fourth in the world, according to a Euromonitor study, and has risen over sixty percent since 1989. Jackie is the only person I met who didn’t touch it, despite relatives’ and friends’ repeated insistence.


“No, thank you so, so much, auntie, but I don’t drink soda, remember?” she apologized. She avoids it to stay healthy, but it’s hard to refuse gifts in Tetlanohcan.


As American products are making the reverse journey back to Tetlanochan in droves, Tetlanohcan youth navigate the apparent contradiction between the traditional life of their parents and the consumer culture imported from their siblings and relatives working in the U.S. As I walked home with Jackie, her 18-year-old brother Aldo glanced up from the stone basin in front of the house where he was furiously scrubbing something. He grunted an introduction, then excitedly drew his gleaming white pair of Puma sneakers from the basin, looking at the American city kid for an appraisal.


“They look American, for real, right?” he asked.


“Definitely,” I said, becoming the sneaker expert he needed. “I can see the stitching.”


“Yup. That’s because they are American—authentic!” he said. “My brother sent them straight from Conneteecuh.”


Inside, the hallway is cluttered with two broken speaker sets. They sleep two to a bed on worn mattresses with uneven springs.


The next day, Jackie and Elena took me to the nearest city, Santa Ana Chiautempan, for its annual fair. We rushed through the obligatory historical exhibit leading the fairgrounds, featuring toy dioramas of Tlaxcala’s history. The mismatched “Indian” figurines were bare-chested and peeling. The exhibit ended with a towering effigy of Jesus on the cross. This display even had fresh blood dripping onto a sheet.


We walked into the gauntlet of neon lights and cotton candy. American electronic music, circa 2012, blared across the rows of shops and stalls—Bob Marley T-shirts, traditional Tlaxcalteca stoneware, fake jewelry (“no photos!”), beaded necklaces, Jesus paraphernalia. Tlaxcaltecas from throughout the valley mobbed the rickety rides, children screaming and sprinting the length of the whirling machines. Jackie and Elena picked La Himalaya, a rusted spoke that spun passengers in three-seated cars, each decorated with a freakish, spray-painted caricature of a different U.S. pop star. It’s a miracle Michael Jackson held together for as long as he did.


Tlaxcala’s eponymous capital city has a fair three times the size, they boast. Among all this gaudy foreign paraphernalia, the people of the state have permanently placed another figure at the center of the city: the statue of the great Tlaxcalteca warrior Xicohténcatl, known endearingly as “El Xico” (pronounced el SHEE-ko), for which the capital is officially named: Tlaxcala de Xicohténcatl. The ruler of the state of Tlaxcallan at the time of Spanish arrival, Xicohténcatl is most famous for intercepting and defeating Cortes’s troops and forcing them into a peace treaty. They then formed an alliance and successfully invaded Tenochtitlan, which is now called Mexico City, the capital of their Aztec rivals. But Cortes, as European invaders so often did, accused El Xico of treason and hung him.


Though Mexicans from other states tease Tlaxcaltecas, calling them “traitors” because their ancestors marched with Cortes, El Xico is an indigenous freedom fighter in Tlaxcala. He is martyred for defying both the Aztec and the Spanish to save his kingdom. Indeed, Tlaxcaltecas were spared many of the horrors that other indigenous Mexicans faced at the hands of the European invaders, maintaining a degree of sovereignty through Mexico’s early history.


I stood staring at El Xico for a long time. This chiseled indigenous masculine hero reminded me of one of Louis Hall’s militant American Indian Movement propaganda figures, which I grew up around, often depicting a Mohawk Übermensch with his back to the rising sun. But in Tlaxcala, the statue and the indigenous resistance it represents is not radical; it is totally normalized—kids climb on his benevolent toes while vendors sell their parents bubble wands. Indigeneity is an omnipresent, though changing, force in Tlaxcala.



**Title: OCTOBER 2015**
**Author: Sebi Medina-Tayac**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
At the Mendieta household, this back-and-forth be-
tween cultures takes place in their grandmother’s kitchen, 
where people speak a mix of Nahuatl and Spanish. They 
call it “speaking Mexican.” As we ate chiles enogadas (a 
fried sweet stuffed pepper) Jackie, who learned Nahuatl 
at home and at school, was teasing my colonized tongue 
at the kids’ table.
“Pa-no-tzi-no,” she sounded out. “That means good 
day, Sebi.”
“Here, I’ll help you, guero,” her cousin’s boyfriend 
poked at me. “Pah-not-SHEE-noh bro,” he said in his 
best Sean Connery impression. I’d been hearing it all day.
“Stop fucking with me,” I snapped back, only half jok-
ing. “No me chingues.”

Bernardo had sat me down and taught me how to 
curse in Spanish, worried I wouldn’t survive the family if 
I couldn’t defend myself.
“How do you say that in Nahuatl, abuelita?” Jackie asked.
“Chingaduria,” she obliged. Bernardo roared and 
smacked the table.

Jackie is set on making it back to New Haven to visit 
her brothers.
In the family’s cramped kitchen, she broke her sit-
uation down for me while preparing lunch: pipian, a 
creamy stew made from sesame seeds, nopal cactus, pota-
toes, and lots of chiles.
She stared down at the sesame seeds toasting in a dry 
pan, nutty and papery in the thin mountain air, and ex-
plained that CAFAMI, which she and many others quit 
in recent years, isn’t the only way to get a visa to the  
U.S. “It’s just a matter of getting things moving again,” 
she said. “We have to get the women back together and 
ﬁnd something.”

Jackie sliced the nopal cactus paddles with a hunting 
knife as if they were sticks of butter. The chipotle peppers 
were boiling. “Well, the other thing about all this is I’m 
going to university soon, and that puts a sort of hold on 
my ambitions.”  In a way, the life enabled by her brother’s 
remittances will, for the time being, keep them apart.

She started to fry the nopales and potatoes, throwing 
them around the old skillet with a wooden spoon. Then 
she carefully poured the hot sesame seeds, chipotles, cin-
namon sticks, and cloves into a blender. “I just would like 
to visit the United States, spend time with my brothers 
and sister.” The ground spices piled on top of the nopales 
and potatoes, where they quickly simmered into a light 
pink broth, alongside a stack of tortillas handmade with 
corn from the family plot. She tipped back her pink Hol-
lister cap to wipe the sweat from her brow.

At dinner, Jackie calls her brother Francisco from her 
smartphone. For Francisco and other migrants, the only 
way forward was north. There’s a restlessness to the town, 
one that leads people to ask what would happen if they 
left for good. Her brother Daniel is certainly thinking 
about it. But for Jackie, there’s still a future here in Tetla-
nohcan—one that in many ways depends on New Haven. 
 —Sebi Medina-Tayac is a senior  
in  Davenport College
*Reporting from this story originally appeared in  
a series in the New Haven Independent.


**Title: THE CASE OF THE MISSING ADIRONDACKS**
**Author: Olivia Klevorn**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

it is cold more often than it is warm in the courtyard 
of Silliman College. A rectangular plot of grass divided 
by stone paths and lined on four sides by Georgian, 
French Renaissance, and Gothic residential buildings, 
it is a house-and-ﬁeld setup. It’s a function of the col-
lege’s expansive structure, dating from a time when 
people believed that sod and sun would make you 
moral. Last year, seventeen Adirondack chairs (eight in 
chili pepper red and nine in chili pepper green) were 
placed in the courtyard. But recently, the chairs have 
started to go missing. At press time, seven remain. SG, 
the Silliman operations manager, says it has become a 
problem, which has made the community start asking 
the necessary questions. Not “who would want to steal 
these fucking plastic Adirondack chairs?” But “why are 
they here in the ﬁrst place?”

i
The chairs are designed to accommodate the posture 
of a reclining middle-aged man. This might be because 
they were designed by one.  The Adirondack chair was 
invented for use exclusively as a piece of summer home 
furniture. Though Adirondack chairs were initially 
made of wood, Silliman’s are of a thick, high quality, 
lightweight plastic.  As a result, they are good conduc-
tors of heat in warm weather and can become hazard-
ous to sit in. Regardless, it is cold more than it is warm 
in the Silliman Courtyard, and there are no summer 
homes here. The chairs are an example of what may be 
called an “Institution,” what Professor Elijah Anderson 
describes in lecture on Wednesday afternoon as “An 
established way of doing something that effectively out-
lives its biological inheritance. The way of life persists, 
and the people involved in it die off and disappear.”  

ii
There is a rumor around Silliman that people have 
been using the Adirondack chairs for “pants-on sex,” 
and that the administration removed them in a ﬁt of 
moral fervor and is now just pretending that the chairs 
are missing, so that no one will know how afraid of 
sex the administration really is. The rumor is widely 
considered untenable, because SG keeps hemorrhag-
ing daily email reminders about the social contract: 
“Things that are intended to be used in common are 
not intended for private use.” Presumably he wouldn’t 
do this if the administration were thieving the chairs. 
The girl I used to live with, who sometimes ate pizza 
and drank brandy in the Adirondack chairs while wait-
ing for her rugby man to come home, says she “would 
do it, no, has done it in the hammock, but never, never 
in an Adirondack chair.” All of this seems to refute the 
rumored use of the Adirondack chairs.

iii
C works in the Silliman dining hall, has worked there 
for 15+ years, and does not plan on leaving any time 
illustration by christopher paolini

soon. Her job is standing at the dining hall’s entrance, 
running ID cards through a scanner, and sliding a 
damp rag over tables between meals. C believes the 
chairs are disappearing because “kids have been drink-
ing,” but does not view their absence as signiﬁcant. She 
focuses on the fact that she has “more than most people 
I know:” a courtyard to walk across and a job on the 
other side. C is missing a toe and stands all day.

iv
Benjamin Silliman was Yale’s ﬁrst science professor. 
He gave the campus some laws of the universe and lent 
his name to a college built by the Vanderbilt family. 
Benjamin Silliman collected meteors. As far as I can 
tell, a meteor is just a really big rock. It is only a meteor 
because it came to us from space. Although it is hard 
for us to say precisely where space begins or ends, it was 
even harder for Benjamin Silliman. When Benjamin 
Silliman wanted to look at his meteor, he probably took 
it out of its protective case, held it up to his eyeball, and 
marveled at holding something of the universe in his 
palm. To examine it more carefully, he may have had 
to sit in something like an Adirondack chair. Possibly, 
we’ve found another use for the chairs in the Silliman 
courtyard. See: Original Master of the Universe.
The Peabody Award-winning broadcaster, New York 
Times bestselling author, and recipient of the 2014 
National Humanities Medal says, “Virtues – so closely 
bound to our ﬂaws and failings – lie at the heart of the 
mystery of the human capacity to be present to the 
ﬂawed and failing world.” 
Free; no tickets required. ism.yale.edu
Book-signing follows. Presented in collaboration with  
Yale Divinity Student Book Supply.
yale institute of sacred music presents
Krista Tippett
The Mystery and Art of Living
tuesday, november 3 · 5:30 pm
battell chapel
yale literature & spirituality series

v
In Silliman, it matters when money is spent. There is 
no winery, or special night of Italian food, or bottle of 
champagne for every senior. The student cocktail par-
ties are fueled by buttery snacks on paper plates. There 
are sometimes rats in the basement. These small lack-
ings are exacerbated by relativism, the gauge of life at 
Yale where everything is judged by what it is not. It is 
still Yale and grand and all that, but “we don’t have 
a winery” and “my freshman counselor ran out of the 
good candy.” So the Adirondack chairs feel new and 
special. In them, you can sit and aspire to something 
greater, a college more like the one in “Mona Lisa 
Smile” where Kirsten Dunst fell in love and married 
a doctor and still found feminism. It is where every-
one walks their dogs and throws their Frisbees and 
pretends it is warm enough for lawn furniture.  It is a 
vestige, maybe, something to hold onto when the anx-
ious winds of Recession and Political Correctness and 
Institutional Memory come beating at the gates. This 
is the Institution’s last pair of real gold earrings: seven-
teen Adirondack Chairs in chili pepper red and chili 
pepper green.
— Olivia Klevorn is a junior 
in Silliman College



**No Title Given**
**Author: Not Given**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:

--- Page 40 ---
