Publication date: March 1, 1977
Volume: ten
Issue number: one


**MASTHEAD**
- Editor in Chief: Corby S. Kummer
- Executive Editors: Jennifer Allen, Jacob Epstein
- Associate Editors: Nancy Harris, Starry Schor
- Designers: Daphne Chu, M. G. Lord
- Publisher: Beatrice H. Mitchell
- Editorial Staff: Lisa Barlow, Aaron Betsky, Owen Brown, Therese Feng, Will Goetzman, Webb Keane, Sarah Kreimer, Peter McCormack, Lori Marian, Manka Masuoka, Peter Pokalsky, John Roy, Oenrus Shasha, Alex Stille
- Graphics Staff: Armand LeGardeur, Barbara Rose, Karen Sideman, Bill Tarbell, Deborah Weiss
- Business Staff: Caroline T. Mitchell, Stephen D. Warner, Susan E. Amron, David R. Radt


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- comment: another admissions scandal; tear gas at the opera; "Sensation Galore," a discussion; poems; a word from the editors
- Notes from the People's Inaugural - Aaron Betsky
- Urban Homesteading - Dennis Shasha
- Visiting Day - Sue Denham


**Title: More freshman fraud**
**Author:  (unattributed)**
**Page number(s): 2**

were hit by the gas. There was no
More freshman fraud
In the wake of the Andreas Alrea/
Patrick McDermitt hoax, a Yale
freshman has revealed to the New
Journal that her application for
admission to the university was also
fraudulent. Miggie Bonija, who
applied as the daughter of a Puerto-
Rican domestic residing in Spanish
Harlem, is really Linda Feineman, the
only child of an affluent Long Island
lawyer.

Linda explained her reasons for the
fraud. "All of my friends were
applying to Yale, and I realized that
the last thing the admissions office
would want to see was another
application from a Long Island JAP."
Linda confessed that she also forged
her S.A.T. scores. Her real scores
were 740 and 790, but with her
application she sent in scores of 400
and 460.

"I learned that the hard way. The
people at Harvard knew that my
application was fraudulent because
my scores were too high. They
reasoned that if I were that smart, I
wouldn't be that poor. After all, this
is America." The move paid off, and
Linda is attending Yale on a full
scholarship. She uses her book
allowance to purchase contraceptives
at the Yale Health Center.

Central to his application was
Linda's personal essay. She chose to
be novel: disdaining prose, she tried
her hand at ethnic poetry. As a result,
the Yale University Press has asked to
see more of her work. A book is in
the future. "I really felt that I knew
about the Puerto Rican experience.
I've had a lot of contact with them,
you know. When I went on my trip
to Europe, my father took me into
the city to a Spanish neighborhood,


to buy a set of matched luggage. It's
really cheap there, you know. I think
it might be hot," she confided.

Her essay-poem explores the pains
of inner-city dwelling and its
psychological effects:

Miggie Bonija's
Very upset;
She's sick and tired
of living in debt.
Tired of roaches
Tired of rats!
Whoa-ho, whoa-hoi


Yale Admissions officials have
refused to recognize the fraud.
Director Worth David was
unavailable for comment, but a
staffer who refused to be named said,
"Haven't we had enough embarrassment
for one year?''



**Title: Striking a blow against civilization at the Met**
**Author: Eric Peters**

Woolsey Grove
Striking a blow
against civilization
at the Met
The Metropolitan Opera is well
known for its punctuality: the lights
had just begun to dim when I sat
down there at 8:29 on February 19.
But as the house darkened, a strange
odor filled the air. Suddenly a
middle-aged woman, struggling to
breathe, clutched my arm for support.
Within seconds my eyes seemed to
bleed tears of broken glass. My lungs
pulled taut in severe pain. My face
burned and my sinuses strained.

Around me, the many gasps for
breath became screams.

A group ran to the lobby exits and
opened the doors violently. A foul-
smelling gust of yellow haze burst
from the lobby into the theatre: we
were pushed back in. "Out the side
exits! The side exits! We've been
bombed with tear gas. Get out!!", an
usher cried. A handkerchief covering
his face muffled his words.

Ambulances, fire engines, and
caravans of police cars soon arrived.
The remarkable ventilation system of
the Met house managed to vacuum
out the theatre, leaving only vestiges
of the dusty yellow tear gas. Out of
their dedication to their art and their
audience, the extraordinary cast-
including Verrett and Crespin-
decided to go on with the opera after
a long hour's aeration.

The conductor and production were
given an ovation before the performance began. One moment in the
first act was of particular meaning for
the audience: speaking of the Paris
mob in times of strife and fear, the
heroine's father sings, "A mob in
panic speaks with a thousand eyes."
Despite the difficulty of singing and
playing instruments because of
remnants of the gas and constant
coughing of the audience, the production was a tremendous success.
The last few minutes of the opera
were so engrossing that I only
remembered the miserable opening
when I was on the subway.



**Title: Sensation Galore**
**Page number(s): 2, 15**

Violence galore?
The gaseous cloud moved slowly
through the audience. I could see row
after row jump successively from their
seats. They covered their eyes, noses,
and mouths in an attempt to breathe
without inhaling. Within seconds the
entire lower audience was standing.

A friend told me to come early to
get a good seat. I came on time. A
table with six untilled chairs, six filled
glasses of water and six microphones
faced an empty Silliman Common
Room.

Several people rushing to the aisles
fell to the floor, but others soon
helped them. The asbestos safety
curtain fell quickly, and cries were
heard from the orchestra pit. Metal
stands and chairs fell loudly.

One girl who had come from
Philadelphia to see the opera told me
what it had been like in the third
balcony.

"Up in the Family Circle we had no
idea what was happening. The
stench hadn't reached us until much
later- until it was too late. For a
while we thought Queen Elizabeth
or some VIP had entered- that is,
when everyone stood up and turned
around. But when the orchestra ran
out we all knew something was
wrong. A few seconds later, we too


The biggest sensation of
"SENSATION GALORE" was the
lack of sensation. The formal title (A
Discussion of Audience Appeal in
Entertainment Today) glossed over
the fact that the assembled group had
gathered to talk about movies. I
wondered how they were going to
discuss audience appeal in film
without discussing sex or violence. I
discuss sex and violence. I wanted
popcorn.

I shouldn't have wondered: in the
beginning of the discussion someone
pointed out that "sex is dirtier than
violence ... After that, the discussion
focused on violence.


**Title: Notes from the People's Inaugural**
**Author: Aaron Betsky**
**Page number(s): 3**

Notes from the People's Inaugural
by Aaron Belsky
It was the early morning of the
20th of January, 1977. A jet passed
overhead as Martin Luther King Sr.
took his place on a rostrum in front
of the massive statue of Abe Lincoln.
Five thousand people, mostly blacks,
stood on the steps in front of him.
"Little did I know, fourteen years
ago, that I would be standing here
again today,'' he said. "But God has
His ways of leading us and guiding
us."

King spoke to this eager crowd at
seven o'clock in the morning on the
first, freezing day of "a new era," to
preach the gospel of a new administration. He raised the crowd to
confused but loud choruses of "Praise
the Lord" and "I believe, I believe."
After each phrase they shouted his
theme, "Feed my sheep."

"Feed my sheep, the sheep must be
fed. This is what it is all about. That's
what Martin Luther King Jr. gave his
life for ... that the least of these may
never be forgotten. That's what the
president-elect is all about, that's why
he's up there, because he said that he
was concerned about the least of
these. I was hungry, and you fed me
not. I was in prison, and you didn't
visit me. I was sick, and you didn't
wait upon me. So God grant that our
president will remember always the
least of these." The people, along with
Leontyne Price and the Atlanta Boy's
Choir, shouted and praised the Lord
and sang Amazing Grace.

Standing in the first row with
cameras, microphones and note pads
all around me, I noticed Coretta King
in the front row. She sat next to
Andrew Young. CBS saw them too,
nailed them, and interviewed them
with the Washington Monument as a
backdrop. Cameras clicked away. But
all the clicking was overwhelmed by
the sound of five thousand people
singing and shouting.

It was perhaps the only moment
during the whole inaugural that
unified faith descended over one of
the large gatherings in the city, made
you believe that the political process
meant something. That dream of
fourteen years ago, voiced on the
same steps, seemed possible. The
crowd didn't care about the media.
They cared about the deliverance they
expected from a new president.

The only show of emotion I'd seen
before this had been in the office of
Senator Hubert Humphrey. Under
the countless decorations, portraits,
and memorabilia that adorned the
Senator's reception office, a
Minnesota woman sat crying. She
had thought her invitation to the
capital meant a nice seat at the
inauguration. She had supported
Carter, she had even helped out a
little at the local headquarters. Now
she couldn't even get onto the
grounds of the capitol, let alone get a
seat. The closest she could get to
Carter would be about half a mile-
or else six feet away from the
television screen set up in the office.
One of the secretaries was frantically
calling around for a prized blue ticket
to standing room on the capitol

When I left the office, the woman was
still sitting there, wiping her eyes and
clutching a Humphrey newsletter.

Outside, the capital had reached the
political apotheosis of its Bicentennial
madness. The exhibits were open
again. Mobs of historically-minded
citizens filled every nook in the
Smithsonian and every bed in every
hotel. Jimmy had told them all to
come and come they did, lifting their
white cowboy hats and greeting you
with a cheerful "Hi there, young
fella!" under the stately dome of the
Russell Office Building. The inhabitants of Plains, who had come up on
the specially-chartered "Peanut
Special" train, crashed in the lobby of
the Ambassador Hotel. They drank
Blackjack and cursed the bureaucrats.

The tour guides were working
overtime. Their fingers trembled as
they directed heads towards the
mighty dome of Congress. Two high
school girls, whose blonde hair was
tucked beneath bright red caps,
disregarded their tour leaders' antics
and practiced their steps for
tomorrow's parade on the steps of
Congress.

The taxi drivers took it all calmly,
cruising carefully past limousines and
official dark-green cars, cutting off
the rest of us. At peak hours there
was an hour wait for a cab. Only
Union Station seemed capable of
dealing with the masses.

The Visitor's Center, the former
main hall, never seemed to fill up.
The potted palms and landscaped
corners waited beneath the rhythm of
the brilliantly white Beaux-Arts
architecture. Stately Washington
could still accept all these Southern
hordes and remain unchanged. Still, a
cabby said as we left the Visitor's
Center, "I'll be happy when this is all
over, so we can get back to normal
business again."

I did some sightseeing myself,
exploring the rococo richness of the
Library of Congress. I closed my eyes
and imagined a camera, hung from
the roof, zooming in closer and closer
as I sat at one of those tables sorting
out little slips ... wow! This is where
they shot "All the President's Men."
"I am not a crook," "I do not
recollect," "Stonewall it" haunted the
place.

The Combined Armed Forces
manned every street corner in the
center of the city. They forced the
rebellious jumble of traffic into neat,
if sometimes angry, garrisons of
stalled cars and waiting pedestrians.
A Chilean general might have felt at
home amidst the machine gun-toting,
jeep-driving, walky talky-whispering
and saluting troops who were
positioned everywhere. Maybe the
Chiefs of Staff had forgotten that
Carter had claimed that the days of
the Imperial Presidency were over
and that the rebellious hippies who
had tried to spoil Nixon's inauguration had long since joined the
Green-and-White Brigade to the cry
of "Leaders for a change!"

All of this could not prevent a few
Yippies from holding a desperate
press conference proclaiming, once
again, that they were damned
disobedient. They handed out dope at
the Washington Monument: some of
it could be smelled near the latrines,
greeting the new era.

Everybody found something to do
in those few January days. The street
vendors, discarding their Bicentennial
plastics, loaded themselves and their
vehicles with green and white plastic
Carter buttons and peanuts. Grits and
Fritz peeked out from every corner of
their carts and boards. "Hi there, I'm
Jimmy Carter and I'm going to be
your next President." Buy me for a
quarter.


**Title: Urban Homesteading**
**Author: Dennis Shasha**
**Page number(s): 6**

**Title: Visiting Day**
**Author: Sue Denham**
**Page number(s): 8**




**Title: American Master Drawings**
**Author: Theodore E. Stebbins, Jr.**
**Page number(s): 11**



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Aaron Betsky**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
4 
I r~turned to my resting place for 
the night to watch the Inaugural 
Gala. Jimmy looked happy. The 
Alvin Ailey Company got the crowd 
on their feet. Aretha Franklin made 
them cheer. Even Jimmy was moving 
his hands back and forth, in the 
manner of a Chinese statesman. 

Waking up on the cold dawn of 
January 20th, I drank a cup of coffee 
and rode the metro to the Senate 
Office Building. The morning passed 
in an endless, high-tension blur of 
motion. All Washington moved to the 
capitol in ever-contracting circles. 
The Russell Office Building seemed 
to be the heart of most of the action, 
a huge control-post of endless 
corridors. Throngs of people moved 
in and out of the suffocating offices. 
Plastic cups, holding hot chocolate, 
and plates of cake filled some offices. 
T.V.s blinked in others. Nobody had 
time to see anybody except the five 
million nobodys, those invited, united 
people of America who stared a·t each 
other in the halls and offices. They 
were all waiting for a chance to see a 
somebody, to have something to talk 
about when they got back home. 
Finally at eleven o'clock we joined 
the huge crowd of people waiting at 
the narrow gates of the capitol 
grounds. We inched toward the two 
Marine guards taking tickets. Little 
did I know that reaching this gate 
was the first stage of a long odyssey 
to get closer to that great white chunk 
of card board with the presidential 
seal way up front. I prowled around 
the outskirts of the crowd, cased 
trees, avoided militia, and tried to 
push myself through the crowd with 
my WYBC pass. It was practically 
spat upon. 

Seeing a way out of this morass, I 
climbed over the string and boldly 
flashed my pass at a Marine. He 
flinched and retreated. Victory! I was 
now standing so close I could actually 
almost distinguish Jimmy's facial 
expression, cold and nervous. 

Then, he spoke. I leaned back on 
the crowd behind me and waited for 
the sweet Southern rhetoric to start 
flowing. But something was wrong. 
The words came haltingly; they were 
badly paced and cliched. 

The crowd loved it, though. They 
loved it even more when, after 
everyone had raced to find a place on 
the parade route, they discovered the 
first family strolling down the middle 
of the broad Washington Avenues. 
Harry Reasoner, seated in the back 
seat of a white Cadillac, commented 
on the whole affair. The D.C. police 
chief, the park chief, the cabinet 
officials, and even Fritz Mondale 
himself looked ridiculous in their fat 
cars as Carter walked easily past the 
cheers. 

The subsequent parade was all-
American. One float had the huge 
letters "USA" in reflecting metal, so 
that as the artist had intended, "the 
onlookers could see themselves in 
America." Floats of Arkansas 
products, Virgin Island girls, exhibits 
of the free press, and Massachusetts 
printing followed. Band after high 
school band passed by, each strutting 
to a different drummer. The Army, 
Navy, and other para-military groups 
marched in perfect unison; the 
cheerleaders from small Midwestern 
towns let their overweight legs dance 
to no apparent rhythm except the joy 
of being in the nation's capital. The 
parading horses left droppings all 
over the street; a band of cadets 
marched right throt.gh them. 

All of D.C. that night now centered 
around the eight Inaugural balls. I 
never got to the biggest and best of 
them- the Georgian party in the 
Armory, where all the big celebs 
watched Marshall Tucker belt out the 
Southern rock that had helped make 
Jimmy Carter great. I did squeeze 
myself into the Shoreham Hotel, 
where Minnesota hosted a mixed 
group of elegant Washington 
bureaucrats and businessmen, 
campaign workers and out-of-staters. 
The press room near the entrance was 
desolate. 

For the flfSt time, I saw adequate 
facilities for everyone, but everyone 
was too tired to use them. There was 
nothing left to say. Someone inter-
viewed Mondale's cousin from 
Norway. Everyone looked for Betty 
Friedan. The music in the two 
ballrooms, both decorated in sixties 
kitsch, was lousy, the drinks were 
expensive and for all of this people 
had paid $25. 

They were enjoying every moment 
of it. If the crowd wasn't boisterous. 
it was certainly giddy. "Hey, we 
won!" I heard a young kiJ wearing a 
Carter-Mondale button proclaim. 
"Oh, it's all so nice!" an elderly 
woman exclaimed. Even the couples 
not dancing or huddling in one of the 
little groups smiled at each other, the 
surroundings, a passerby. 

Then, suddenly, He was there. The 
crowd went wild, mobbed the small 
stage ... Are you having a good time?" 
Jimmy asked. 
"Yeah!" the crpwd roared back. 
"Has it been a great day? .. 
"Yeah!" 
"Do we live in a great country?!" 
"Are we going to make it even 
better in the next four years?" 
"Are you going to help me do it?" 
"Yeah!" I waited for: 
"And are we going to rock 'n roll 
tonight?" 
We spoke about what a great day it 
He spoke about what a great day it 
had been, how be hoped he would 
not betray our trust and how Rosalyn 
had worn the same dress at the last 
inaugural he had attended, his own as 
Governor of Georgia. "How many of 
you like Rosalyn's dress?" he asked 
and the crowd exploded again. They 
shouted and cried while he waved, 
until he finally gave in. He danced 
with his wife, cheek to cheek, arm in 
arm, smiling and kissing her. Where I 
was standing, to the side of the stage, 
I thought I saw Rosalyn drop a tear. 
Jody Powell looked at her,bewildered. 
Hey Jimmy, hey Rosalyn, you really 
are tender and loving? I clapped 
along with the crowd. 

Aaron Betsky, a sophomore in 
Branford, wishes to thank WYBCfor 
making his trip possible. 
The New Journal I March I, 1977 


**Title: Parties: Double-Knits and Instamatics**
**Author: Lisa Barlow**
**Page number(s): 5**

J 
Parties: Double-Knits and Instamatics 
Washington was cold, but no one 
minded. On each street corner 
volunteers from the Maryland Bible 
Society handed me my very own 1977 
Inaugural Souvenir. "Jimmy Carter 
will stop adultery and fornication!" 
their pamphlet claimed. Loudspeakers 
everywhere blared the proceedings of 
the Inaugural while the crowds 
collected along Pennsylvania, three 
hours early for the parade. 

People wrapped in plaid stadium 
blankets sat in folding beach chairs 
behind police barricades. They waved 
tiny American flags, and green and 
white .. Jimmy" penants. Swaddled 
children sat placidly in strollers while 
their parents eased the cold with nips 
from steaming thermos bottles and 
discreet flasks. Vendors at every 
intersection hawked fluorescent green 
and fuchsia portraits of Carter and 
Mondale on buttons. Snack stands 
catered to the patient public; they 
offered Hari Krishna delicacies beside 
shiny tacos in saran wrap and 
"authentic" eggrolls. All I wanted was 
a hot dog and a coke. Finally, I 
settled for an orange crush, a vinyl 
cheeseburger, and positioned myself 
behind a family from New Jersey to 
watch the festivities. 

Shivering baton twirlers from 
Georgia high schools warmed them-
selves with their school flags as they 
waited for the grand march to begin. 
Secret Service sharpshooters lined the 
building tops, eagle-eyeing the 
oblivious crowds. During the 
inaugural address itself, store 
proprietors- including those from 
.. Live Peep Show" and .. Girls, Girls, 
Girls" - stepped out of their establish-
ments to hear the speech. 

At 8 p.m. the Inaugural Balls-or 
rather .. People's Parties"-
commenced. In my black chiffon 
evening gown, clogs, down jacket and 
ski mittens, I took the metro to the 
Pension Building where the second 
"add-on" ball was held. 

A female guard frisked me at the 
entrance. The assorted hardware 
around my wrist and my under-wire 
bra triggered a buzzer. Once again, 
sharpshooters nestled in balcony 
alcoves. Helicopters with search lights 
circled the building. There was a new 
crush of people, this time garbed not 
in the parkas and peacoats of the 
afternoon, but in floor-length, nylon 
party dresses and rented tuxedos. 

Hors d'oeuvres were plentiful: 
yellowed pretzels, pizza squares 
tasting of plaster-of-paris, anchovy 
paste, and enough peanuts to make 
me gag if I see one now. 
center flower arrangements rapidly 
disappeared as people plucked them 
as souvenirs. 

The news of the President's 
imminent arrival flashed across the 
room. Everyone pressed against the 
roped aisle toward the stage. I found 
myself feeling very squashed and 
short, sandwiched in between two tall 
couples. Louise's fur stole was made 
of ferrets whose penetrating glass eyes 
glared at me. Mabel stood behind me 
in a margarine-colored Caftan. Her 
husband Ernest had a glittering gold 
smile, and a laugh that made my head 
pound. 

Breathing down each other's 
necks-or up, in my case-, locked in 
place for 30 minutes as a cross 
between big band and muzak played, 
people made friends with each other. 
Swaying to the music, they exchanged 
state names, occupations, and 
invitation qualifications. Frank and 
Louise met two fellow Texans. Ernest 
discovered that the woman in front of 
him had the same brand of 
Instamatic. 

Then the Carters entered and the 
crowd became electric. Jumping up 
and down, one woman broke the heel 
of her shoe. Another fainted. On my 
tipmost toes I managed to catch a 
glimpse of a tuft of blow-dried hair, 
illuminated by spot lights. The band 
played soQiething that sounded like 
the "Queen for a Day" theme. Every 
Instamatic and Polaroid was poised 
with eager hopes of carrying home a 
snapshot souvenir. The taller people 
took photos for the shorter ones by 
raising the cameras at arms length, 
pointing them and clicking. 

The Carters left after I 0 minutes. 
The crush dissolved and someone 
announced the Fifth Dimension. In 
white jumpsuits and white smiles they 
rocketed onto the stage singing "Up, 
up and away ... " Many people had 
never heard of them; only three 
people danced. 

Listening to the 5 D's "Surrey Down" 
down," I became caught up. in the 
kitschiness of the scene. I watched 
people cluster around the ruined 
floral arrangements. Two women in 
identical, rhinestone-studded tube 
tops giggled over the coincidence of 
their appearance. 

I have to own up to a spasm of 
Americanism, though. I saved my 
ticket stub. 

Lisa Barlow 


**Title: Urban Homesteading**
**Author: Dennis Shasha**
**Page number(s): 6**

6 
by Dennis Shasha 
Two years ago, New Haven's Ann 
Street on the Hill was ravaged and 
vacant. Street crime and crumbling 
housing had discouraged potential 
inhabitants. A third of the deteri-
orated one- and two-family homes 
were abandoned. Absentee landlords, 
bankers, private institutions, and 
government agencies had long since 
lost interest. They wrote off the street 
as a hopeless slum. 

In early 1975, an informal 
group of Ann Street residents- a 
remarkable high school sophomore 
named Tony Dawson, and two Yale 
graduates-embarked on a scheme of 
urban renewal that turned abandoned 
houses into resources instead of 
liabilities. The project suggests a 
strategy for urban renewal that 
dispenses with the conventional 
wisdom and that works. 
toHow. 

Under the so-called "urban home-
steading" legislation (enacted at the 
federal and state level but never tried 
in New Haven), potential homeowners 
could "buy" for one dollar vacant 
houses owned by HUD and turned 
over to the city. Sixteen-year-old 
Dawson took the first step by buying 
a house- not from HUD, but from 
Connecticut Housing Insurance, an 
organization that holds properties on 
which banks have foreclosed. Dawson 
then convinced the New Haven Board 
of Aldermen to ask HUD to turn the 
seven houses it owned on Ann Street 
over to the city, so the city could sell 
them to potential homesteaders. 

Over the next few months, seven 
sets of homesteaders, with jobs 
ranging from bus driver to research 
worker and mostly young married 
coup~. joined the effort. A major 
building project began. 

Ann Smith, one of the seven home-
steaders, says "The bouse we moved 
into was falling apart. Nobody had 
lived there for years. Vandals had long 
since ripped out plumbing and 
electrical equipment. In fact, they 
didn't leave much of anything." 

The priorities of the homesteaders 
became to: acquire tools; improve the 
security of the area so that the work 
of the day would not be plundered at 
night; and get enough money to 
accomplish what were, in many cases, 
total interior restorations. 

Yale contributed Sl,OOO to buy 
tools, but the security problem proved 
more difficult. As work began, some 
fulltime residents of the street were 
wary of the would-be homesteaders. 
Vandals poured gasoline from the 
rooftop of Dawson's bouse and lit it. 
The damage still shows, though the 
house bas not been hit since. The 
vandalism made the neighborhood 
more sympathetic to the home-
steaders. It went a long way toward 
encouraging a community security 
group known as NeighbQrhood 
Watch. 

This group bas managed to alter 
completely the crime pattern on the 
street. For example, a year and a half 
ago, a house on Ann Street was 
abandoned. Other residents and the 
homesteaders failed to convince the 
family in it to remain. Yet, in a city 
where vandalism invariably follows 
abandonment by less than a week, no 
one has vandalized or plundered the 
house since its tenant left. 

"Because of Neighborhood Watch," 
says Amus Stevens, a street resident, 
"there are people you can see and say 
bello to from noon to midnight." 

In a way, Neighborhood Watch was 
a natural outgrowth of the spirit the 
project bad fostered. Ann Smith 
notes, "We have really gotten into 
sharing. 'Why leave something in the 
basement if your neighbor can use it?' 
we all think. People will come around 
and ring my doorbell if they haven't 
seen me for a while." 

Coaxing money from foundations, 
and eventually from the New Haven 
Redevelopment Agency, required a 
different kind of ability. It was here 
that the Yale graduates brought their 
talents to bear. The Haymarket 
Foundation of Cambridge, Massa-
cbussets and the New Haven 
Redevelopment Agency have together 
contributed some $600,000 to the 
project, half in grants and half in 3% 
loans. 

Of all the problems the homesteaders 
faoed, the most serious was their 
relationship to Redevelopment. The 
major portion of the money they 
applied for came almost a year after 
they submitted their application. Red 
tape, which delayed payments to some 
contractors, skepticism on the part of 
Redevelopment officials about the 
project, and the officials' reluctance to 
give away power to private citizens 
very nearly destroyed the project. 

"Though they never came out and 
said it," Ann Smith recalls, "the 
Redevelopment officials seemed to 
think, 'Oh, this won't work and we're 
going to prove it.' " 

Most of the plumbers, carpenters, 
and laborers who are working on 
these houses are neighborhood 
residents or the homesteaders them-
selves. They comprise a core of about 
11 men, most of whom were untrained 
in construction skills before the 
project began. They have acquired 
most of the necessary skills through 
experience and from special help 
programs set up by the carpenters' 
union. Professionals are hired for very 
specialized tasks. 

People Acting for Change, as the 
original group came to be caUed, bas 
established a non-profit general 
The New Journal I March 1, 1977 
contractor called the Home Main-
tenance Center to help rehabilitate. 
The Center has cut normal fees by 
25%; it also has a tool-lending library 
for minor repairs. 

Of the ten original sets of home-
steaders, seven are in various stages of 
moving in or have already. The 
project now involves 13 houses. But 
the success of this project, at a time 
when most programs that try to 
benefit low income groups fail, is only 
one of its remarkable features. Even 
more remarkable is that Tony 
Dawson, the project's initiator, is still 
a high school student. 

Though his parents have only 
recently become politically active, 
Dawson began watching polls at 9. At 
10, he and a local pastor organized 
New Haven's first block association 
on nearby Ward Street. There are 
now about 17. At 16, he helped form 
People Acting for Change, partly to 
focus the efforts on Ann Street, partly 
as an umbrella organization for the 
block associations. 

On the way, be has picked up an 
award from the New Haven Police 
Department for fostering good 
relations between the police and 
private citizens. His latest project is to 
establish a student government at Lee 
High School. 

Dawson has definite theories about 
education. For one thing, he sees no 
reason why "Urban Studies classes 
should concentrate on Chicago instead 
of New Haven." He believes in the 
practical benefit from gearing courses 
to New Haven: "Knowledge replaces 
fear. If you don't know what's going 
on, you can't help with a project. 
Instead, you go and break windows." 

In the November, 1976 election, 
Dawson took charge of organizing his 
ward. A record 1900 residents voted. 
Even before this, Senator Weicker 
invited Dawson to spend a week in 
Washington to observe government at 
the Federal level. Governor Ella 
Grasso bas invited him to spend a 
week of his spring vacation looking 
over the state government. Two of his 
teachers as well as Dick Conrad, a 
Journal Courier reporter, have offered 
to help him write an autobiography. 
He plans to have completed his first 
draft by the end of the year. The 
usually cynical Conrad bas followed 
the Ann Street project closely. He 
says, "All I can say about the kid is 
that he is incredible. Not only has he 
gotten the Ann Street project under 
way, but he has prevented a war 
between People Acting for Change 
and the Hill Neighborhood Corpora-
tion that would have been disastrous 
to the area." 

Dawson bas recently become 
estranged from People Acting for 
Change because he feels Yalies have 
come to dominate it. He thinks it is 
absurd to support that white outsiders 
can organize black community 
residents better than other community 
residents. Moreover, he resents the 
Yalies' attitude towards community 
problems. 



**Title: The Ann Street Project**
**Author: Dennis Shasha**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New Journal I March I, 1977 
"I have no complaint against Yale 
students in general." he says. "What I 
resent is that they come in from the 
outside and tell the community 
residents what the community's 
problems are. 'It's the school, the 
mayor, the cops,' they say. They 
assume they know what our problems 
are because we live in a poor neigh-
borhood and they've read about the 
problems of poor neighborhoods in 
their books." 

From the point of view of 
extending the urban homesteading 
concept to other neighborhoods in the 
city, friction between Yale graduates 
and community residents constitutes 
only a minor problem. Before projects 
such as Ann Street spring up else-
where in the city, either the city or an 
outside funding source must agree to 
put up the resources that concentrated 
rehabilitation projects like the one on 
Ann Street require. Ann Street 
organizers consider outside sources a 
long shot at best. 

The city's attitude towards urban 
homesteading is certainly ambivalent. 
While Dawson and others at first 
credited Mayor Frank Logue with 
helping launch the Ann Street project, 
Logue's program of housing rehabili-
tation, Neighborhood Preservation, 
announced last September, almost 
explicitly excludes Ann Street-type 
projects. It sets grant limits of $5,000 
and loan limits of $10,000. The 
smallest loan on Ann Street was 
$16,675. 

The market value of houses on Ann 
street is under $15,000, yet home-
steaders have taken out loans of $20-
$25,000 to rehabilitate such homes. 
Their investment of time and money 
has made it evident that they consider 
Ann Street a permanent home. "I've 
spent a lot of long hours away from 
my family on this house,'' says Ann 
Smith. "My sweat, my family's sweat, 
and my roots are here. You better 
believe I plan to stay around." 

By contrast, the owners of houses 
slated for Neighborhood Preservation 
money have all chosen to get as much 
grant money as possible, making little 
or no effort to take out loans. In 
other words, not only are banks 
unwilling to invest in Neighborhood 
Preservation areas, but home-owners 
themselves are not even inclined to 
invest in their own houses. 

Except for foundations, other 
sources of funds such as banks have 
not contributed to the Ann Street 
project either, but through their labor 
residents won't have nearly the 
emotional stake in their neighbor-
hoods that homesteaders have. 

Finally, long-time residents of these 
neighborhoods will view newcomers 
as carpetbaggers who descend to 
snatch the spoils of work they them-
selves were uninvolved with. 

Incentive is the key. "The lesson of 
Ann Street," says Tony Dawson, "is 
that people who want to stay in a 
neighborhood and have a stake in it 
can improve it a lot-no matter how 
poor it is to start with." 

The fight in New Haven continues. 
During the first week of this January, 
the Board of Aldermen passed 
legislation calling for the establish-
ment of a nine-member board. 
Independent of the Redevelopment 
Agency, the new board will be 
empowered to enact urban home-
steading programs. Mayor Logue 
decides the level of funding and the 
membership of the board, testing his 
commitment to the concept. 

On Ann Street, progress continues. 
High school senior Tony Dawson 
As homesteaders move into their 
houses, become settled and raise 
families, they may lose some of their 
outspoken advocacy for urban home-
steading. Tony Dawson seems aware 
of this possibility. He has deliberately 
kept his own house on Ann Street 
unrehabilitated. "My house was the 
symbol that something was starting 
on Ann Street," he has said ... Now it's 
the symbol that what was started has 
yet to be finished." 


**Title: Visiting Day**
**Author: Sue Denham**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

The New Journal ! March I, 1977 
VISITING DAY 
Cara Geisler was enjoying herself. 
Not that the county music and arts 
camp didn't have its drawbacks: the 
camp bordered on a vast garbage 
dump, from which there arose, during 
the humid nights, an awful stench, 
and constant clouds of gnats and 
mosquitoes. The cabins were 
draughty, oddly off-balance, insect-
ridden; and Capraro, Cara's art 
teacher, was an unkempt, offensive 
middle-aged man, whose wife trotted 
around the camp in brassy bleached 
hair and gold lame peddle-pushers. 

Capraro had taken a strong liking to 
two girls from Cara's cabin, best 
friends, whom she considered 
immature. Their work was infantile-
they openly, and rather proudly, 
admitted to having auditioned for the 
camp using portfolios done by their 
high school art teacher-but, Cara 
thought bitterly, that was probably 
the key to the charm it held for 
Capraro: it was "primitive." On the 
other hand, if you had any real talent, 
and you dared to show it, Capraro 
would promptly and eagerly rework 
what you had done until it was barely 
recognizable. Not a single sketch or 
painting of Cara's had been left 
untouched. She had vowed to hide as 
much of her future work as possible 
from the sharp, jealous eyes of 
Capraro. 

No, it was not the camp itself that 
was at the root of Cara's-more than 
pleasure-elation. She felt freer 
somehow than she had ever felt in her 
life. Although the camp administra-
tion's readiness to ignore its own 
vestigial rules undoubtedly contrib-
uted to this feeling, it had a more 
basic, inadmissible cause: Cara was 
away from her parents. 

It had been two weeks since the 
first day of camp-two weeks since 
Cara had last seen her parents-and 
this third Sunday of the camp season 
was visiting day. Cara had arranged 
her voluminous bedding as neatly as 
was possible on the thin, concave 
mattress of her bunk. She had spent a 
good part of the morning trying to 
give some order to the mass of 
clothes in her trunk, which she now 
opened repeatedly, nervously, as if 
she expected the clothes to have 
somehow jumbled together again. 

Worse, she was haunted by a dis-
turbing incident that had occurred in 
the past week: one night, as though 
they had convened somewhere 
without her and planned it, the eleven 
other girls in Cara's room had gotten 
unanimously hysterical. They sobbed 
and sobbed-even, Cara noted with 
detached amazement, those girls who 
were the most outspoken in 
denouncing their parents. 

Of course it was contagious. But 
when Cara at last joined in, she cried 
for a different reason from that of the 
other girls. She cried because she was 
not homesick; and surely there was 
something terribly wrong with a 
thirteen-year-old girl, away from 
home for the first time in her life, 
who did not miss her parents at all. 

Then: in the cabin doorway, Mrs. 
Geisler stepped back abruptly, as if 
repulsed by a blast of foul air. She 
touched her husband's arm and her 
lips exclaimed silently: "Oh, Irwin!" 
"Didn't I tell you?" she said shrilly. 
"Didn't I tell you we'd find something 
like this? I knew it, I'm not 
surprised." She cast her eyes furiously 
about the room. "Just look at this-
will you just look at this place? It's a 
pigsty! Where's Cara?" 

Cara, sitting on her bed, directly in 
her mother's line of vision, was rigid 
with embarrassment. She was 
grinning. 
"Here. Hi!" she said in a voice that 
seemed to issue from the pit of her 
knotted stomach. Her only comfort, 
as she faced her mother's eloquent 
rage, was a spontaneous rush of 
irrational affection she suddenly felt 
for the two other girls in the room. 

They were still waiting for their 
parents and lay in their upper bunks 
reading paperbacks and chewing gum 
loudly, impassively. Neither was 
Cara's friend; neither gave any sign 
now that she acknowledged Cara's 
presence, or Mrs. Geisler's. But Cara 
in her desperation endowed them with 
qualities of understanding and 
compassion beyond those she would 
have expected in a good friend. 

Then, perhaps sensing that their 
mute, indifferent presence was 
somehow shielding Cara, Mrs. Geisler 
turned on the two. 
"You girls live like this?" she asked. 
The girls' eyes met. One mouthed 
the words "You bet!" and her friend 
giggled hysterically, nearly choking on 
her gum before she was able to 
control herself again. 
"Don't laugh at me, young lady!" 
Mrs. Geisler fumed. "This place is a 
disgrace- " 

But the rest of the speech was lost 
to Cara, as rivers of blood burst the 
frail walls of arteries and veins and 
flooded her ears. The next voice she 
heard clearly was her father's. 
"So," it said calmly--or maybe it 
just seemed that way, contrasted with 
her mother's. "How are things?" 
"Things are just fine," Cara 
managed to return flippantly. 
"Your sisters are outside," her 
father said. 

At this cue, Cara rose from the bed 
automatically and followed her 
parents, cautiously keeping her dis-
tance. She heard her mother say in a 
low, confidential voice: "Irwin, I don't 
want them to see that, inside there. 
I'm serious. It's a disgrace, the way 
she's living." When her father hissed, 
"Now you're being ridiculous, you're 
being stupid, Madeleine," Cara hoped 
wildly that this would be one of the 
times she could successfully ally 
herself with her father. She knew that 
he was often as impatient with and 
embarrassed by his wife as she was-
how could he not be? how could 
anyone in his right mind not be? Still, 
she had to be careful, had to watch 
and wait: there were other times, 
distressingly frequent and unpre-
dictable, when if Cara so much as 
glanced disapprovingly in her 
mother's direction-or if her father 
merely imagined that she had- he 
would slap her face with the hard 
back of his hand and force her to beg 
her mother's forgiveness. Those were 
his own words: "Now beg your 
mother's forgiveness! You don't look 
at your mother like that- hear me? 
That's the kind of treatment you 
deserve, not her, and you're going to 
get it. From now on, I swear you're 
going to get it ... " 

Cara stood blinking in the noon 
sunlight outside the cabin, dazed and 
disappointed. She was disappointed 
because the clear, perfect weather did 
not reflect the darkness and the 
turmoil into which she had been so 
suddenly thrust by her parents' visit. 
Her sisters, aged four and eight, eyed 
her wanly as Cara, unseeing, walked 
toward them. 
"Well, hi," Cara said finally. 
"Hi, Cara!" the little one piped 
immediately. She was an attractive 
child with great, long-lashed black 
eyes and shining straight dark hair. 
"Hi," the older girl said, still 
hesitant. She was tall for her age, thin 
and long-legged. Her thick, sun-
streaked brown hair fell loose from a 
ponytail in a stubborn halo about her 
narrow face. 

Cara too was tall for her age, and 
thin, but large-boned. Her massive 
growth of black hair, parted in the 
middle, was swept back over her ears 
and fastened at the nape of her neck 
with a barrette. Glints of metal 
showed through where her gold loop 
earrings were. She wore a too-long 
T-shirt and baggy green bell-
bottomed jeans and no shoes. Her 
arms and feet were covered with 
insect bites, some nearly healed and 
white with scar tissue, some scratched 
raw and oozing. 
"My God!" her mother gasped 
suddenly, noticing for the first time 
that Cara's feet were bare. "Look at 
those feet. Just look at them!" 

Cara obligingly studied her feet. 
"What have you been doing to 
yourself?" 
"I haven't been doing anything. 
Insects did that: mosquitoes, gnats, 
spiders of many varieties. They seem 
to have it in for me." 
"Go put on some shoes," Mr. 
Geisler ordered. 

Cara disappeared into the cabin 
and emerged again wearing pink 
rubber thong sandals. 
"Real shoes," her father said. "Put 
on your sneakers." 
"I can't. They hurt." 
"Well, maybe," Mrs. Geisler 
enjoined, "maybe if you had worn 
them in the first place you wouldn't 
have had this ... problem." She 
hesitated as if there were something 
unspeakably wrong with Cara's feet. 
"Did you ever think of that?" 

Cara shrugged. 
"Answer your mother," her father 
said sharply: he was not on her side 
after all. 
"No," she was forced to admit, 
annoyed and ashamed. 
"She has no common sense, Irwin," 
said her mother. "How many times 
have we said it? Oh, she's great in 
school, but when it comes to life- to 
living with people- I don't know, 
there's just nothing there." The 
woman sighed. "When is she going to 
learn?" 
"She's not," Mr. Geisler predicted 
grimly. "If she hasn't learned by now 
it's too late." 

"Irwin, we shouldn't have sent her. 
I knew this would happen." Mrs. 
Geisler shook her head slowly, 
thoughtfully. 
"What would happen?" Cara 
demanded. "Nothing's happened." 
"I'm warning you . . . " her mother 
said menacingly. She turned to her 
husband. "I tell you, after seeing this, 
I'm seriously considering taking her 
out of this place today. Seriously." 
"Seeing what?" Cara persisted 
bravely. "What?" 

But her parents seemed to have 
forgotten that she was there. Her 
sisters, meanwhile, had moved 
discreetly off to a spot some distance 
away, where the grass was sparse and 
the ground unusually soft because of 
the burrowing of moles. They 
shrieked with delight as the earth 
collapsed repeatedly beneath their 
sandaled feet. 
"We're not taking her out, 
Madeleine," Mr. Geisler was saying. 
"It's good for her. Let her get a little 
experience living in the real world for 
a change; let her see for herself that 
it's not going to be as easy 
everywhere as it is with us. Not 
everyone is going to take what we've 
taken from her. If she doesn't wake 
up now, then it's too late. She's old 
enough now." 

"I don't know," Mrs. Geisler said 
thoughtfully. "Maybe you're right." 
She turned at last to Cara: "Maybe 
after living like an animal for six 
weeks you'll appreciate your home a 
little more. Maybe you won't think 
your parents are so rotten." 

Cara failed to deny that she 
thought her parents were rotten. She 
had been through this scenario 
before: they would tell her that 
though they knew she was lying, they 
hoped, for her sake, that someday it 
would be true. Her father said, almost 
cheerfully: "I doubt it." 
"You're right," Mrs. Geisler agreed. 
"It's too much to expect, that our 
own daughter should love us." 

Cara felt as though her brain had 
turned to molten lead, and would at 
any moment come pouring out 
through her eyes. She heard her 
mother continue: 
"Come over here, let me look at 
your face." 

She went, automatically, and her 
mother studied her face as if she did 
not recognize her daughter-as if she 
were searching desperately for a 
familiar feature, a familiar curve of 
brow or cheek bone, a familiar pore. 
Then the woman grabbed at her arm. 
"I have to do your hairs," she said 
in a hot, sharp whisper against the 
side of Cara's face. 

Cara winced at the euphemism: 
"hairs" meant mustache, the shadow 
growth above her upper lip. Her 
mother would never use the word 
except when more than usually intent 
upon impressing Cara with the fact 
that she would be ugly, an object of 
ridicule, if the "hairs" were not 
regularly "done"-bleached. 
"I have to take her somewhere 
where we won't be seen." Mrs. Geisler 
explained to her husband. Cara was 
amused when he, visibly embarrassed, 
said: "I'll take the kids with me." At 
home, too, he was always em-
barrassed by the bleaching ritual, as if 
he could not bear to acknowledge this 
minor physical blemish of his 
daughter's. He was more comfortable 
in the face of what he considered the 
pervasive defects and deficiencies of 
her character. Whenever he saw Cara 
with the white bleaching cream drying 
above her lip, he would avert his eyes 
disgustedly and say: "Take that stuff 
off your face!" -before the twenty-or-
so minutes required to complete the 
process were up. So she would have 
to stay out of his sight. 
"You could go to the studio," Cara 
suggested now, helpfully, overcome in 
the face of her father's foible with the 
first tenderness she had felt all day. 
"Some of my work's there. You'll find 
it, it's signed." She and her parents 
had toured the camp the day they had 
brought her there. Her father would 
know how to find the studio: a dank, 
ill-lit, basement-like room in the back 
of the main building. 

He nodded-gratefully, Cara 
thought-and summoned her sisters 
with his hand. 
"We'll see you later," he said as he 
walked off with the two little girls. 
"Meet us at the studio, Madeleine." 
Cara heard the four-year-old ask: 
"What studio, Daddy?" Her father's 
answer- "The place where all your 
sister's artwork is kept"-filled her 
with pleasant, inexplicable pride. 
"Where can we go?" Mrs. Geisler 
nearly screamed, looking frantically 
around, as if convinced already that 
there was no spot on the camp 
grounds secluded enough for her 
purpose. The sound of her voice had 
jarred Cara back into her original 
hostility. The woman continued: 
"There must be somewhere-" 
"There is, there is, don't worry," 
Cara interrupted. She lowered her 
voice and said in mock romantic 
tones: "I know a place where we can 
be alone." 

Her mother remained stolidly 
unamused. 
"You watch out-you hear me?" 
she said. "I'm warning you, you're 
getting on my nerves today. You 
think I like to see you living like this? 
Like an animal?" She paused for a 
moment, and when she spoke again 
her voice had dropped an octave. 
"Where is it?" 
"Come on." 

Cara and her mother walked, 
unspeaking, up a half-obliterated dirt 
path that led past the stage: a painted 
wooden platform surrounded by a 
moat of gravel and a haphazard 
arrangement of bleachers. Behind 
them, on a vast mat of green and 
straw-colored grass, were spread the 
girls' cabins, the covered art patio, the 



**Visiting Day**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
t J' 
' 
10 
main building which was largely a 
mess hall, the flagpole. A gravel road 
led out of sight into the woods, to the 
other parts of the camp: the boys' and 
administrators' sections, the secluded 
dance studio, the rec hall, pool, tennis 
courts. The camp was located on a 
small peninsula; Cara and her mother 
wallced on a narrowing stretch of 
overgrown land toward its tip. They 
could see, directly ahead, the edge of 
the sheer, sandy drop the campers 
used to get down to the water. On 
either side the river was shielded from 
view by dense walls of the tangled, 
distorted trees that grew out in all 
directions from steep slopes. Cara led 
her mother finally to a solitary bench 
that faced the open end of the 
peninsula. Before they sat down, the 
woman patted her handbag and said 
in an oddly confidential voice, as if 
she were speaking about an illicit 
drug: "I have it right here." 


Cara noted with revulsion the 
flaccid, starkly pale spread of her 
mother's bare thighs on the weathered 
wood of the bench. Mrs. Geisler was 
a stocky woman only an inch or two 
taller than her daughter, wearing a 
short, navy-and-white cotton dress. 
Her mother had horrible legs, Cara 
thought; she had absolutely no 
ankles. She felt too that her own legs 
were an only slightly modified version 
of her mother's, so she always wore 
long pants, even in the hottest 
weather. She sat sullenly now while 
her mother fished around in her 
handbag for the drug- the bleach-
silently blaming her both for the sorry 
state of her legs and for making her 
so painfully conscious of their 
unattractiveness by bringing up the 
subject of yet another defect: the 
"hairs." 


Mrs. Geisler had found what she 
was looking for: a discreet, pale 
turquoise box with .. Jolen" inscribed 
on it in airy, feminine script, and "Lip 
Bleach" below that, in small print. 
The inaccuracy of this description 
angered Cara: it was not her lip that 
had to be bleached; it was the hairs-
the mustache!- above her lip. Raging 
inwardly, Cara watched as her 
mother, with the skilled air of a 
pharmacist, mixed the contents of the 
dainty tube of cream and a delicate 
vial of powder she had produced 
from the box. She spread the 
concoction with a tiny, spatula-
shaped stick onto a miniature pallet 
of white plastic- both also from the 
box. 
"Look at me," the woman 
commanded. 


Cara lifted and turned her head. 
Her mother applied the white cream 
with the spatula, spreading it expertly 
to cover all the hairs. A sharp smell 
bit into Cara's nostrils; she 
remembered that the writing on the 
box had also proclaimed Jolen's 
"New Rose-Scent." 


The stuff stung. Exaggerating her 
discomfort, as she always did- by 
moving her Hps as little as possible 
when she spoke, as if the cream were 
a great weight-Cara said petulantly: 
"It burns!" 


"That's only for the first few 
minutes," her mother said sagely. 


It was true- but how did she 
know? Cara wondered. She had never 
used- or needed- Jolen Lip Bleach. 
She must have read it in the 
instructions that came with the "kit," 
Cara finally decided. 


Mrs. Geisler leaned back, gazing 
with obvious satisfaction at Cara's 
face, as if it were a portrait she had 
just put the finishing touches on. 
Then, eagerly, she bent forwarct 
again. 


"Now, we'll just put a little here," 
she said as she smoothed cream over 
the little gap between Cara's rather 
heavy black eyebrows. "You need it 
here, too." 


Cara's face tensed and tingled with 
annoyance: that was something her 
mother said every time. In fact, the 
bleaching of the shadow between her 
eyebrows had always been so 
desultory a gesture on her mother's 
part that Cara did not even include it 
in her own conception of the "hairs." 


"Stop twitching!" Mrs. Geisler said. 
"That stuff cracks, and I'll have to do 
it over again." Her voice, if not her 
words, expressed the horror of a 
Michaelangelo watching her David 
threatened with an axe. 


• "Oh, never!' Cara blurted 
impulsively, forgetting even to keep 
her lips tight. 


The blood rose in Mrs. Geisler's 
face; she clenched her band around 
her daughter's exposed upper arm, 
thrusting her hot face close to the 
girrs. 


"You listen to me," she warned. 
"You just listen to me now, young 
lady. I don't like you today- you 
bear me? You think you're so great: 
well, you're not. That's what you have 
to learn, in order to live in the real 
world. People have to live in reality, 
not in a fantasy world, like you." The 
woman paused for a deep, slow 
breath. "Can you understand that?" 
she said as if she were talking to an 
idiot. 


Cara nodded, mesmerized more by 
the rhythm of the words than by their 
awful meaning. 


"Answer me." 


"Yes." 


Mrs. Geisler shook her head slowly, 
portentously. 


"I don't think so, Cara," she said. 
"I don't think you really do. I think 
you're lying." She waited for this to 
sink in- Cara did not deny it- before 
continuing grandly. "It's too much to 
expect, that you'll ever learn. I know 
it. Your father is right: if you haven't 
learned by now, it's too late. He's 
resigned himself to that-your own 
father. I don't know how he did it. I 
can't-I've tried to, God knows, but I 
can't, and that's that. I'm your 
mother, I can't let you be the way 
you are now-the way you've always 
been. You've always been this way, 
and it's no good." She appealed to 
Cara with small, inexpressive eyes, at 
the same time tightening her grip on 
the girl'§ arm. "It hurts me- it breaks 
my bean---an you understand 
that?- when I see you living like this, 
in filth. Filth! If it was up to me I 
would take you out today. But your 
father thinks it's good, maybe be's 
right, I don't know. I just don't know 
anymore." 


The hand holding Cara's arm 
relaxed, but the woman's broad face, 
drained now of color and oddly 
luminous, still hung as if disembodied 
inches from Cara's own. The woman 
was inhaling deeply and irregularly, 
dipping her head forward each time, 
her eyes half-closed. Cara had the 
sudden, terrible conviction that her 
mother was somehow drawing 
strength for another tirade from her 
own- Cara's- breath. She drew back 
in horror, gasping slightly and 
holding the burning air down inside 
her chest. When it burst forth seconds 
later, with a scalding rush, Cara 
heard herself whisper hoarselv: "No!" 


Mrs. Geisler roused herself at the 
sound, as if awakened by the snap of 
a hypnotist's fingers, and began to 
speak again as though she had never 
stopped. 


••1 only want the best for you, 
everything I do is for your own good, 
whether you know it or not," she said 
to the side of Cara's ashen face. "I 
didn't have to bring this"- she waved 
the little turquoise box-"but I 
thought maybe you'd appreciate it, 
realize I only wanted to help you. I 
didn't do it for my own sake, did I? 
But I see now that was too much to 
expect." The angry flush had returned 
to her cheeks. "Look at me!" she 
said, and peered intently at her 
daughter's face. 


Cara hated her mother now- hated 
the little eyes, hated the warmth 
which seemed to creep, sly and 
tentacled, toward her from her 
mother's body. She wanted to scream; 
she would have screamed, had the 
woman not said at that moment: "It's 
almost time to take if off," and 
reminded her of the precious cream 
drying stiff and caked above her lip. 


"I'll take it off now," Mrs. Geisler 
continued, taking a wet washcloth 
from the plastic bag she had, in tum, 
taken out of her handbag. "We have 
to meet your father," she added 
irrelevantly, daubing the bleached 
areas of Cara's face ungently. 


"Finished," she announced, with a 
sort of pride. 


Cara's skin felt raw where the 
cream had been, more exposed 
somehow than the rest of her face. 
She twitched her upper lip experi-
mentally, as if she doubted that it was 
still flexible. Her hatred had subsided 
The New Journal I March I, 1977 
now, replaced by a bubble of hysteria 
that nearly burst when her mother 
said: 


"You have no idea how much 
better you look. I know you can't see 
yourself objectively-which you'll 
have to learn to do one of these 
days- but you were actually ugly 
before. A girl with a mustache is 
something people make fun of. Do 
you want them to make fun of you? 
Or would you rather I did this for 
you?" 




"Yes what?" 


"I'd rather you did this for me." 


"Well, then show it. Show a little 
appreciation for a change, that's all I 
ask. Is that too much for a mother to 
expect?" 


They were leaving, finally. But first 
they were going to take her picture. 
All right: she could stand that much 
more. 


Cara stood in front of the cabin, 
waiting for her father to return from 
the car with his camera, idly and 
absurdly trying to calculate the length 
of her family's visit from the position 
of the afternoon sun. Her sisters were 
playing on the molehills again; her 
mother stood nearby, scowling and 
shaking her head at nothing in 
particular- at the entire camp, 
perhaps, with its flurry of post-
visiting, pre-dinner life. 


Cara herself had lost all track of 
time soon after her parents' arrival; 
before that, the minutes had weighted 
the air with a palpable, languid 
presence. The events of the afternoon, 
following the bleaching ritual, had 
slipped past her memory unnoticed-
all except one, and it was this one 
alone that Cara desperately wanted to 
forget. The others, she was sure, had 
been innocuous enough. 


She had Hed, the tendency her 
parents always held up as ultimate 
proof of her inherent, ineluctable 
badness. The lie had not been 
premeditated; nor would it be dis-
covered. But it lent a prophetic aura 
to her parents' dismal assessment of 
the chance that Cara would "learn 
before it was too late." 


She and her mother had joined her 
father and sisters in the makeshift 
studio. The poor lighting and gray 
concrete walls of the small room 
made the paintings that were hung 
randomly or planted on easels in the 
corners stand out with a brightness 
that was almost malevolent. Looking 
around at the collected work of the 
campers, Cara noticed for the first 
time the remarkable consistency of 
many of the artists: the girl who 
painted nothing but seated, faceless 
women in eighteenth-century dress; 
the boy who worked endless 
variations on a mushroom-and-
spider's-web theme, in shades of 
orange and red. Then there was the 
work of Capraro's two favorites, 
amazingly similar: Modigliani-Iike, 
but artless, portraits of women--or 
girls, you couldn't tell which-with 
heart-shaped faces, pointed chins; 
~taring, lashless eyes outlined heavily 
in black; narrow, sloping shoulders. 
Jt 


**American Master Drawings**
**Author: Patricio P. Fischer**
**Page number(s): 11**

The New Journal I March 1, 1977 
11 
American Master Drawings 
American Master Drawings and 
Watercolors, by Theodore E. 
Stebbins, Jr. (with the assistance of 
John Caldwell and Carol Troyen) was 
commissioned by the Drawing Society 
to present a survey of American 
draftsmanship from 1564 to the 
present. A major exhibition of 
American drawings, based on the 
book and sponsored by The 
American Federation of Arts, has 
travelled to the Minneapolis Institute 
of Arts, The Whitney Museum of 
American Art, and is currently on 
view in San Francisco at the 
California Palace of the Legion of 
Honor. 

A selection of illustrations from the 
book iodi~s its scope. Drawings 
have been made throughout American 
history, from early notations such as 
John White's A Warrior of Florida to 
expressive works such as Untitled 
Number II by the contemporary 
sculptor, David Smith. Folk and 
country artists are represented by 
such works as the Shaker drawing 
The Tree of light, an interesting 
contrast to sophisticated drawings 
such as John La Farge's Dawn 
Comes on the Edge of Night. Mr. 
Stebbins explores in careful detail the 
varying techniques and differing 
purposes of the artists. This can 
readily be seen in a comparison of 
two masterly landscape drawings: the 
quick study of Niagara Falls from the 
Canadian Side by Frederic Edwin 
Church and the painstakingly finished 
image, Twilight, Plum Island River, 
by his contemporary Martin Johnson 
Head e. 

Watercolors is a pleasure. Hand-
somely designed and printed, it 
explores, for the first time, the rich 
and continuous tradition of American 
draftsmanship. 



**Visiting Day**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The observation unsettled her; apparently there were patterns people could not break. 
"I see this is one of yours," Mr. Geisler had said. He was thoughtfully eyeing a three-quarter-view portrait of an attractive, strong-shouldered woman with prominent cheek bones, full lips, a long, muscular neck, in a muted yellow shawl-collared dress or shirt. The painting had been executed on a rectangular wooden board and then brushed over with a sepia wash, so that it looked as if the wood had never been completely covered. "Not bad," he said, grinning expectantly at Cara, as if awaiting profuse thanks for a shining compliment. 
"You like it?" Cara said simply. 
"On the whole," her father mused, "it's not bad. The lips are too thick; the nose is good- very good." 
Suddenly he seemed suspicious. "You did that nose?" 
"Yes," Cara said, and that was the lie. The woman's nose- well-shaped, perfectly highlighted, with wide, winged nostrils- was the one part of this particular painting that Capraro had chosen to improve upon. He had done so thorough and impressive a job that Cara herself could not remember the original. Instead, she had, up until the second before she said "Yes," succeeded in more than half-convincing herself that it was her own work. 
But she had lied- she had always lied. Her parents were right: she would never learn. It was a pattern she could not break. 
Her father had returned now with the camera and a brown supermarket bag which he had given to Cara's youngest sister to hold. The little girl kept unrolling its top and peeking inside as if she thought its contents might have disappeared. Mr. Geisler took the camera out of its leather case and waved Cara to the spot- in front of the cabin steps- where he wanted her. She stood ready, hands on hips, smiling broadly for practice. Her lip still felt stiff; she was sure it was red and sore-looking. 
Just then, as Cara's luck would have it, Amy Ray walked up to the cabin. Amy Ray was one of Capraro's two favorites-the worst one. She was a lanky girl with stringy brown hair in pigtails, freckles, and a pink, inordinately fleshy nose. 
"Hi, Cara!" she said brightly. 
"Where have you been? I haven't seen you all day." She frowned, as if this fact had weighed heavily upon her mind for hours. Then she brightened again and waved cheerfully to Cara's parents. 
"Cara, why don't you ask your friend to be in the picture?" Mrs. Geisler said loudly. When Cara did not respond, she herself addressed Amy, gesticulating elaborately, so that even if the girl were deaf she would understand: "Come here, sweetie, come be in Mr. Geisler's picture!" 
The girl turned toward her and smiled with false, unbecoming shyness. 
"Are you sure?" Then to Cara: "Is it all right?" 
"But of course, Amy," Cara said coldly, with a French accent. 
Amy took her place next to Cara, imitating--consciously, Cara was convinced- her pose. Mr. Geisler said "Smile, girls!" and snapped their picture uneventfully. 
"That's all: no explosion, no fireworks," Cara said, mostly to herself. 
Her mother frowned deeply. Amy Ray punched her arm affectionately and said "See you tonight," before going inside. 
"Madeleine, it's time we got going," Mr. Geisler said, hanging the camera around his neck and motioning for his two younger daughters. 
"I'm ready," Mrs. Geisler said in an exhausted voice, as if she had just completed some grim and elaborate preparation for the trip home. Cara noticed with a jolt that her mother was scrutinizing her closely. 
"But first we have to give Cara her present." Mr. Geisler took the brown bag from the four-year-old, who hurried a last look inside before surrendering it reluctantly. "This is for you," Mr. Geisler said magnanimously, handing it to Cara. 
The bag contained a box of pretzels and a round cellophane package of dubious-looking candy- irridescent, pastel-colored sticks about the size and shape of small test tubes- which Cara knew at a glance she would hate. She had guessed when she first saw the bag that her parents had brought food-that was traditional- but she was disappointed. 
"Oh, great!" she said, keeping her voice miraculously free of irony. 
"Sustenance!" Inspiration seized her and she said to her mother: "You wouldn't believe how much I miss your cooking!" Now that her parents' departure was imminent, Cara felt, she could afford to be nice. Besides, it was true. 
Mrs. Geisler nodded, unaffected, still eyeing her daughter strangely. 
"They don't feed you here?" she said as if she really thought this might be true. 
"Oh, they feed us- it's what they feed us!" Cara tried to make her cheerful tones contagious. "You wouldn't believe what they have the nerve to call food." She grimaced humorously. 
"Yes, I would," her mother said ponderously. 
"Okay, kids, say good-bye to your sister," Mr. Geisler was saying. The two girls did so in unison. To Cara, depressed by her mother's sullen perversity, it sounded as if they had rehearsed. 
"Well, good-bye, Cara," Mr. Geisler said. "We'll see you in two weeks, I guess. Don't forget to write. Madeleine?" he urged, and started to walk with the two girls across the grounds to the parking lot. He and the little one, half-way there, turned once to wave and to summon Mrs. Geisler, whose lips, Cara saw from the corner of her eye as she waved back, had begun to tremble perceptibly. 
"That Amy seems like a nice girl," the woman said suddenly. 
"She's not," Cara insisted. It figured that the dreadful Amy Ray had something to do with her mother's agitation. 
"Well," the woman sighed, "I just thought-I just hoped-that maybe, finally, you were finding yourself a few friends-maybe you were finally learning to live with people. That's what I thought, that's what I hoped and prayed for." She shook her head. "But I see now I was wrong. I see now it was too much to expect from you." 
"I have a few friends. Amy Ray just isn't one of them." 
"Too much to expect. Too much to ask." The woman's head shook continuously now, as if with palsy. "Don't say good-bye to me. I know you don't want to." Her voice cracked. "I know it." 
Mrs. Geisler walked away swiftly, but her heavy legs, which Cara watched with terrible fascination, conveyed the impression that each step she took was weighted with a profound, maternal sorrow. 
Cara's cabin was the largest in the camp: two separate wings for campers and a smaller room between them for counselors. And it was considered the best, thanks to a built-in latrine. Cara was examining her face closely in the mirror above one of its three sinks. She pressed the skin above her lip tentatively. It felt unnaturally smooth, though in the mirror she could see enlarged pores which made it look uneven and cratered. It might have been red, too, but Cara couldn't tell: her whole face was red from crying. 
"Beautiful!" the girl said suddenly, the word condensing in a small circle of steam on the mirror. "Beautiful, beautiful. And I was ugly before-to think I was ugly before!" She laid the tips of four fingers gently on the sensitive skin. "Where would I be if my mother hadn't done this? Where would I be?" She pressed and took the hand away quickly, as if her fingers had been burned. Four small crescent-shaped indentations were strung above her lip. "I'd be ugly," she said in a high, strained voice. She replaced the fingers with great care, fitting each fingernail into its crescent. Then she scratched down hard over her lip. Scarlet threads appeared below two of the marks. "But now- now I'm absolutely gorgeous!" She started to laugh, but her mouth cracked into a grimace. "Oh, where would I be without my mother to do this for me?" she sobbed. "Where would I be without my mother?"


**Title: None**
**Author: None**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
YOUR FUTURE IS IN OUR HANDS .......... . • • • • • • • • • • • 
* TERM PAPERS, 
fast service, overnight and same day 
typing available, ~easonable rates. 
Last minute typing our specialty. 
* RESUME SERVICE, from composing to 
· retyping, we offer a variety of 
services. We have an IBM MEMORY 
typewriter available for typing 
original copies 
*ORIGINAL 
LETTERS to prospective employers 
typed on our memory typewriter. 
·overnight service when time 
permits. 
* DISSERTATIONS and THESES, 
professionally typed, prompt delivery, IBM 
Correcting Selectric typewriters, Reasonable 
rates. Editing available 
OTHER SERVICES AVAILABLE: 
* COPYING: 
IBM copies and Xerox copies available at 3¢ per copy. 
Special discounts with quantity. 
Reducing and three hole punch or colored 
paper available at the same prices. 
* OFFSET PRINTING: 
Fast and economical, quantity discount, 
illustrating, poster design and calligraphy. 
' * BINDING: 
Our binding machine produces beautifully 
bound copies, in any color or material 
including plastic, cloth or cardboard. 
Hard cover hand sewn copies available 
starting at $9.50. 
TYPING, SECRETARIAL SERVICES, OFFSET PRINTING, STUDENT SERVICES, BINDING, 
RESUME SERVICE, ETC. 
~----------------------------------, 
For Copies Plus * 
See us 
The copy shoppe, inc. 
the 
COPIES PLUS* 
865-3115 
50 WHITNEY AVE • NEW HAVEN, CT. 06610 

