Publication date: October 21, 1988
Volume: 21
Issue number: 2

**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Mary Chen
- Editor-in-Chief: Martha Brant
- Business Manager: Jodi Lox
- Managing Editors: Skye Wilson, Peter Zusi
- Designer: Pamela Geismar
- Production Manager: David King
- Photography Editor: Heidi Schulman
- Associate Business Manager: Pamela Weber
- Associate Editors: Cynthia Cameros, John Gill, Kirk Semple
- Associate Photography Editor: John Kim
- Circulation Manager: Lynn Festa
- Subscription Manager: Malaika Amon
- Staff: Anthony Ewing, Jennifer Fleissner, Julie Hantman, Mitchell Hammond, Stephen Hooper, Anna Kreiner, Ann Light, Motoko Rich, Barry Shimelfarb, Jaeyong So, Jamie Workman


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
Letters - 4
NewsJournal - 4
Between the Vines - 6
Features - 10
When Right Is Incorrect - 18
Down in the Dumps - 18
In the Long Run: Women's Cross Country Sets the Pace - 26
Breaking Up the Party - 26


**Title: When Right Is Incorrect**
**Author: Brent Robbins**
**Page number(s): 18**

Political' dialo~ at Yale is actually a monologue: Liberalism is by far the ruling 
sentiment on campus. BrJ.~ when liberals tum a deaf tar to all conservativ~ opinion, they 
stifle thdr own thought. 


**Title: Down in the Dumps**
**Author: Florence Williams**

In oM year, New Raven's dump will clos~, and thm is no agrmnent on what to tkJ 
with the ci~'s garbag~ after that. In the meanti~, ci~ officials ar~ trying to ba.lanc~ 
concerns over junked cars on tk str~ets with heavy metals in the groundwater.


**Title: In the Long Run: Women's Cross Country Sets the Pace**
**Author: Skye Wilson**
**Page number(s): 26**

With a philosophy of group training and support, tM women's cross country team 
substitutes closenMs for com~titivmMs . But when they rau against otkr schools, they 
win.


**Title: Breaking Up the Party**
**Author: Cynthia c~os**

TM Dmtocrats hav~ ruled New Haven for 30 years. Although /Mr~ is no Republican 
challmg~ in view, the reant Tyson/ Ferrucci battle for R~gistrar of Votm caus~d a rift in 
the Dmtocratic party, which might rumerg~ in the 1989 mayoral rae~.



**Letters to the Editors**
**Author: Walter C. Nicolai**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
To the Editors,

After the Fire (TN], September 9, 1988) presented some major problems to me as a member of the Coalition Against Apartheid (CAA). These include inaccuracies in the article's accounts of this past summer as well as a lack of examination of the administration's strategy toward CAA. 

But most important, the subject of the article- CAA and its activities this summer- is not the reason for renewed involvement in anti-apartheid work. The issue of Yale's continued financial support for the racist Pretoria regime remains the catalyst for student and community activism. 

To understand the events of the summer one has to look at the overwhelming support and diversity of larger community participation after the shanty-burning. Such involvement forced the administration to review its policy toward CAA in an attempt to find new ways to tolerate this overwhelming display of New Haven community solidarity. 

For example, permission to build the wall on Beinecke Plaza was never sought from the Yale administration, despite the article's implication that it was .. \Yellington's public grant of perm1ss1on after the erection of the wall was part of a concerted strategy by the administration to appear as a benevolent, paternalistic institution to Yale students and the larger community. 

This paternalistic image is directly refuted by that which the memorial wall represents: Yale's financial interests in profits from apartheid. 

Furthermore, contrary to some statements in the article, the membership of CAA this summer was tremendously diverse. While the criticisms of those who did not take part this summer may have been legitimate last year, the recent multi-racial support from New Haven has revitalized CAA's commitment to leadership from a cross-section of Yale and New Haven, black and white. 

Sincerely, 
Walter C. Nicolai


**Chants of a Lifetime**
**Author: Margo Schlanger**

A slow, chanted Latin mass plays over the speakers of the Yale Collection of Historical Sound Recordings (HSR) in Sterling Memorial Library. The voices echo off the gothic windows and ceiling of the room. Stopwatch in hand, Father Jerry Weber nods his head at the end of the chant and writes down the performance time in his notebook. He has probably listened to more Gregorian chants than anyone else alive. 

HSR is one of Weber's final stops as he nears the end of a 16-year project- the first comprehensive index to recordings of Gregorian chant, which was once the primary music of Catholic liturgy. The index will run over 700 pages and be bought by record libraries in the United States and abroad. 

Weber's search for chant recordings has led him to major record archives throughout the world. 

The Yale archive includes recordings that Weber has not been able to find elsewhere. These are drawn from the collection's 120,000 items, which overflow from the shelves and block the arched windows. HSR houses over 75 percent of everything recorded before 1925, and its particular strengths include American musical theatre, public speaking, jazz, and operatic vocal recording. 

Weber is interested in several rare chant recordings from the 1930's and early 1940's. 

Weber's catalogue, known as a discography, will serve as a finder!>' guide for Gregorian chant recordings. He will index each record by choir, text, and recording company and will also note the performance time, location, and date. Most important, he will include the record number, faintly etched or stamped into the vinyl just outside the label. This number is the only firm identification a record has. 

The chant discography combines Weber's several occupations. "My interest is as a priest, as a musician, and as a discographer," he explained. In 1952, Weber saw a discography and "really got hooked on record numbers." Fifteen years later he published his first monograph, on Schubert lieder. Since then he's compiled 18 similar catalogues, one of which is· used as a discography textbook at the University of California at Santa Barbara. Weber's current project is different, not only because of his lifelong involvement in chant, but because of its great length. "It's obviously close to my heart," he said. "That's why I left it until I had been doing discographies for 20 years." 

With the end of his research in sight, Weber looks forward to sending the work to press this spring. "I think I can do it the right way," he said, leaning back in his chair and clicking his stopwatch as yet another record begins. 

• 
-Margo Schlanger


**A Change of Tune**
**Author: Ruth Conniff**
**Page number(s): 5**

The Yale singing group formerly known as Untapped Potential began tapping new members this fall. The group, founded as a reaction against the exclusive Yale Council of Singing Groups, has now joined the council and entered the selection process called ~sh and tap, competing for singers wath other official groups. 

The members of Untapped Potential, n=named Out of the Blue, formed the group in 1986 immediately after rush. •It was a banding together of people who wanted to sing in a group regardless of the system," said founding rnember Laura Stanfield (CC '90). •Some people who joined had gone through rush and weren't tapped. Others started rush and stopped because they didn't like the system." 

Approximately 60 students, most of ~e~ freshmen, try out for each council sangmg group during fall rush. Fewer than one-tenth of those who rush are tapped. Many of Untapped Potential's founders considered themselves musically qualified and felt that the council groups had passed them over because they did not measure up to certain IOcia} standards .• "We wanted to show ::!::' you could sing really well outside system without the cliquish social SCene and without rush and tap," said Jon Cohen (PC '90), another of the group's founders. 

· 

But by last spring, the group had improved musically;. and its goals had shifted. "We were tired of being considered a second-rate group," said Dawn Ellis (SM '90), the group's conductor. "We felt that we'd reached our potential, so to speak, and we wanted to have more publicity and to get a chance at some of the better voices like the other groups." After a heated dispute, the majority voted to change the group's name and join the council. Several of the original members, including Cohen, dropped out in protest. This year Out of the Blue participated in all of the council's traditional rush events, including introductory jams, singing dinners, and rush meals for prospective members. 

Despite this change in identity, the group has tried to maintain a relaxed character. In an effort to reduce the social pressures of rush, the members decided not to serve alcohol to rushees. They feel that they still emphasize singing ability over ~rsonality more than other groups. "People who rushed said we were less intimidating," Ellis said. "That's the kind of atmosphere we want."-

But some original members believe that the group has betrayed its founding principles. "I don't think they have any choice but to turn into what I originally set out to oppose," Cohen said. "The new people won't remember anything about the group's origins. Because they've been added through rush and tap, they're going to feel pretty damned elitist about it." Of the 40 students who rushed Out of the Blue this year, the group tapped 11. 

. Since Out of the Blue does not have a set repertoire, these new members have the opportunity to influence the group's sound by bringing in new music. In addition, their attitudes will help set the group's tone. "I guess the mood of the group will change a little," said Rush Manager Evelyn Gilbert (DC '90). "But hopefully our diversity and the basic character will self-perpetuate." 

It is not clear exactly which aspects of its original character the group will retain. The group's very diversity has often caused division among its members, who are still at odds over how to distinguish Out of the Blue from its more established rivals. 

-Ruth Conniff


**When Right Is Incorrect**
**Author: Brent Robbins**
**Page number(s): 6**

A teacher of mine in high school had a favorite quotation that he used to say during any debate. It went something like this: "You can't fully understand your own position until you understand your opponent's." Few people follow that maxim at Yale. Liberals, from activists to once-every-four-year voters, outnumber conservatives and often seem to embrace beliefs without careful thought. Informed, reasoned debate is rare. The resulting atmosphere makes liberal attitudes the orthodoxy and puts campus conservatives on the defensive, so that they either bite back or hide for four years. 

Liberals don't perceive the differences between conservative positions. According to the liberal orthodoxy, everything on the right is wrong. Liberals take pride in their tolerant attitudes, but their understanding of tolerance has a misguided premise. Tolerance is usually defined as freedom from bigotry and acceptance of those who differ in race, sex, and sexual orientation. At Yale, however, the word has come to mean the acceptance of someone's beliefs without critical analysis. 

This definition is best exemplified by those who call themselves "politically correct," or p.c. for short. Their label gives them a ready-made set of beliefs that they can use for their own. To be p.c. is to wear the red arm band, to boycott grapes, and to know the feminist rhetoric. It is assumed by those who are p.c. that their liberal views are correct, and people who oppose those values are incorrect. 

Differing opinions stem from conflicting value systems that cannot be reconciled. And it is incorrect to try. 

But not all value systems are equal. Anything bearing conservative markings immediately receives a negative assessment. The p.c. crowd assumes that conservatives are interested in taking away people's rights and liberties, and reacts accordingly. This perception does have some validity in real-world politics. In the national arena, those on the far right, such as the Moral Majority, can be repressive and moralistic. These groups deserve the "intolerant" epithet. Unfortunately, campus liberal organizations, by creating an environment in which dissent is laughed at or scorned, fall into the same trap as the New Right. 

Yale's political discourse suffers as a result. 

Perhaps fueled by their numbers or the ease of group thinking, liberal students restrict their tolerance to issues on which they already agree. Three years ago Wayne Dick (DC '88) distributed a newsletter parodying Gay-Lesbian Awareness Days (GLAD), and the Yale College Executive Committee gave him two years' probation. The Executive Committee later revoked the sentence after Nat Hentoff of the Village Voice raised a stink about first amendment rights. 

Liberals were outraged: Leaders of the Gay-Lesbian Co-op felt that Dick's newsletter was in such poor taste and so offensive that he should have been suspended. 

The Co-op felt the situation was entirely different when they released an ambiguous poster depicting two people engaged in oral sex. The poster was explicitly designed to shock the average Yale student out of complacency. It worked, but if statements beyond the bounds of good taste are grounds for suspension, the p.oster could have been considered on par with Dick's flyer. 

The conflict over use of space at the Women's Center last spring illustrates another liberal reaction. This case involved a group of women who called themselves Women for Life, an anti-abortion group. The members petitioned to gain access to the Women's Center, claiming that they met the established criteria for entry. But the Women's Center viewed the group as anti-feminist and refused to open its doors to any organization that worked against its political agenda. 

Dean of Student Affairs Betty Trachtenberg interceded and eventually granted the group admission. 

Making use of sensitive social issues allows liberals to feel morally superior



**The Yale Political Climate**
**Author: Brent Robbins**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Coalition Against Apartheid (CAA), for example, has taken an uncompromising stand for divestiture of University funds that support companies with ties to South Africa. For others, divestiture is a complex, ambiguous issue. Although everyone is against apartheid, the best course for freeing blacks in South Africa is widely debated. But three years ago during the rallies on Beinecke Plaza the jssue was as clear as the protestors' collective conscience: To be against divestiture was to be for Botha's South Africa. For CAA members, there was, and is, no acceptance of differing opinions on this issue. Someone is either morally right or wrong.


Classrooms often reinforce these liberal assumptions. In lectures, many professors seem to have a quota of Reagan jokes they must tell. In discussion sections, the prevailing attitude reflects the same easy liberalism. Freshman year I went to a class section on Multinational Corporations (MNC's). Having read the week's material, I took the view that MNC's, although at times corrupt and rapacious, had generally helped their host countries. I was also prepared to discuss the problems that past MNC's had caused. Coming to the section with little ideology, I was surprised by the impression held by the other students that MNC's are inherently bad. My arguments to the contrary were politely ignored. I wasn't seeking consensus on my views, but did assume that the class would at least consider a different perspective.


But there does exist an organization devoted to student debate, the Political Union (PU). Recently, however, the PU has veered away from debate meetings on the grounds that members wouldn't attend. The Liberal Party feels that the absence of its members would lead to a domination by the parties on the right, which tend to favor more debate. The Liberals fear that their less interested members would prefer to hear other viewpoints than express their own; they consistently vote for a speaker rather than for a debate.


In reaction, the conservative parties· in the PU portray themselves as defenders of debate and the exchange of ideas. Nothing could be further from the truth. The Party of the Right's (POR) stated aims are to encourage free debate and to be a haven for those with · radical views of any political stripe. But it spends most of its time opposing what it perceives as the campus orthodoxy. This ten· dency results in scoffing at all that is not reactionary Republican or highly philosophical, and to a moral arrogance that has little room for people outside their club.


Feeling embattled by the liberal majority, conservative parties make trouble or recede into safe, like-thinking groups. The POR, . for example, insists that the PU observe the rule that requires male members to wear a coat and tie in order to be recognized by the speaker. Although the rule is suspended each semester, the POR returns to this empty issue just to antagonize liberals. But these actions not only annoy those on the left, they make the debate that the POR supposedly cherishes even more acrimonious. Instead of disrupting the liberal hegemony of the PU, the POR merely tinkers with the rules and procedures.


The other party on the right that could offer some hope is the Tory Party. Tories pride themselves on their oratorical skills, and many of their debates are quite interesting. But the Tory members prefer to be insular and do little to change people's political thinking. The end result is a small contribution to Yale's political discourse.


But there is a future for political debate on campus. Last year during the primary season students strongly supported disparate candidates for president. For the first time in four years, liberals had a chance to be for someone instead of against Ronald Reagan. The liberal political establishment, including the College Democrats who otherwise contribute little to campus issues, fought over Gore, Simon, Dukakis, and Jackson. To hear from those on the left that there were some problems in the Democratic party was refreshing.


There was a similar opening up on the Republican side. As Co-chairman of Students for Dole in Connecticut, I was involved in getting Yale students to help with voter registration and go door-to-door both here and in New Hampshire. Many members of the Dole campaign considered themselves moderates who had avoided Yale politics because of the disappointing campus atmosphere. This campaign was their first political activity at Yale. They were heartened to find a fair amount of Democrats who respected Dole and who would consider voting for him if they did not like the Democratic nominee. A small step towards opening a meaningful political dialogue, but important nonetheless.


It is too much to expect of any person not to pursue party loyalties right before a presidential election -the issues seem too clear for both sides. The rhetoric on campus will be strong in the coming weeks. After the election, however, there may be a chance to begin anew. A change in Presidential administrations brings in new plans and ideas no matter how vacuous the campaign has been. If people would examine their beliefs in a new political climate, discussion could, and should, flourish at Yale.

Brent Robbins is a senior m Berkeley College.


**Title: Down in the Dumps**
**Author: Florence Williams**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Few people noticed the closing of the 
West Haven landfill last spring until 
debris ended up in front of their houses. 
Junked cars were everywhere-600 
decaying on the streets of New Haven 
alone. Lois Davis, a resident of the Hill 
neighborhood, frequently complained 
to the police about the rusting hulls 
piling up near her home. "It was a real 
eyesore-just disgusting," she said. But 
the cars remained all summer. There 
was no place else for them to go. 
Michael Schiavone and Sons, Inc., the 
only major car-shredder in the state, 
normally would shred abandoned cars 
and then dump the fluffy interiors in the 
West Haven landfill. But when the 
dump closed, the business came to a 
halt. No other landfill operators wanted 
to accept the bulky fluff, estimated at 
20,000 tons a year. 

Landfill space has become precious in 
Connecticut, where 44 dumps have 
already reached capacity. Only two new 
landfills have been approved in the last 
ten years. But nowhere is the bur-
geoning garbage crisis more evident 
than in New Haven. With the closing of 
the West Haven dump, New Haven's 
Middletown 
Avenue landfill must 
absorb an additional 400 tons of 
g~rbage a week, limiting the life of the 
ctty dump to only one more year. On 
t?p of this problem, the neighboring 
City of Stratford has abandoned plans 
for an incinerator that would have 
burned 60 percent of New Haven's 
waste. Now, New Haven residents are 
confronting a trash nightmare: the 
prospect of thousands of tons of solid 
waste with no place to go. 

Dwindling space is not the only issue 
confronting those dependent on the 
landfill. A dump may look like an inert 
pile of rubbish, but eyen everyday gar-
bage such as an old magazine or a 
plastic wrapper contains heavy metals 
and toxic compounds. When it rains on 
these materials, the chemicals can leak 
into the ground and contaminate the 
water supply. This problem is especially 
significant in Connecticut, where 32 
percent of the residents rely on ground-
water. Because of the health hazards, 
the state is reluctant to create new 
dumps. 

With existing landfills almost full, 
administrators must search for new 
technologies. Incineration is a method 
of disposal that many municipalities 
find increasingly attractive. Garbage-
burning facilities, 
called 
resource 
recovery or trash-to-energy plants, can 
handle enormous quant1t1es of waste. 
Although the plants are costly, they 
generate electricity through steam as 
they burn garbage. Over the past ten 
years, as landfills have closed, Con-
necticut has invested in more resource 
recovery than any other state. Seventy-
five percent of the state's garbage is 
committed to eight trash-to-energy 
plants currently operating or under 
construction. But the state wants even 
more, including one in the New Haven 
area. 

Communities, however, are 
reluctant to host the trash-burning 
facilities. 
Many residents fear air 
pollution from chemicals emitted in the 
burning process. Smokestack emissions 
from plants built in the past have 
included everything from acid gases to 
dangerous organic compounds. Per-
haps most frightening are dioxins: Tests 
have shown them to be carcinogenic 
and extremely toxic. Another poten-
tially 
hazardous component of 
incineration is the ash, which like 
unburned garbage, contains heavy 
metals that can enter groundwater. 

In 1982, New Haven began plarming 
a 
trash-to-energy facility near its 
harbor, in Fair Haven. But local citizen 
groups, worried about 
the dioxin 
threat, waged a highly vocal war against 
the proposal. Their concerns were not 
without warrant: In 1977, the state 
closed a 13-year old incinerator in New 
Haven because stack emissions violated 
air quality standards. Reacting to the 
Fair Haven protests, the city aban-
doned the plan two years ago. 

The defeat took the city admini-
stration 
completely 
by surprise, 
according to J ohn Hamilton, a member 
of Don't Dump On Us. His group was 
the main force behind the Fair Haven 
protest. "It blew their shorts off," he 
said. Hamilton believes that incin-
erators, despite their health risks, are 
often planned for crowded cities like 
New Haven and Stratford because 
the high numbers of poor residents give 
those cities little political power. "They 
don't expect one unified voice from 
places like Fair Haven, but with this 
issue, people hit the streets," Hamilton 
said. Opposition continues to gain 
force. This past summer, Stratford 
residents overthrew plans for an incin-
erator in their area. 

The not-in-my-backyard syndrome 
has grown so severe that Connecticut 
legislators are considering aggressive 
ways to get plants built. One plan is to 
subsidize communities that agree to 
host an incinerator. More coercive, and 
more controversial, is a bill that would 
give the state power to override a com-
munity's refusal to accept a plant. If the
bill passes in the next state senate 
session, the Connecticut Department of 
Environmental Protection (DEP) can 
build facilities wherever it wants, and 
thereby protect its considerable invest-
ment in resource recovery. 

Proponents of incineration argue that 
the technology is improving every day 
and that burning is a relatively safe and 
convenient way to treat waste. "The 
dioxin controversy is totally out of 
proportion," said Roger Koontz, a 
Hartford 
attorney 
specializing in 
energy issues. "No one really knows 
what levels of dioxin in the air exist. It's 
not likely the small amount from the 
plants is going to be a health hazard. 
Connecticut has very strict [safety] 
levels." The ash can be managed safely, 
Koontz said, in special landfills with 
double 
linings and complex 
filter 
systems to avoid groundwater contam-
ination. 

But many New Haven activists be-
lieve the need for incineration can be 
bypassed altogether through recy-
cling, a safe and cheap technology. A 
report prepared by Don't Dump On Us 
argued that recycling could eliminate as 
much as 70 percent of New Haven's 
stream of waste. But recycling is a 
relatively new and alien concept in 
American waste management, and one 
not easily embraced by administrators. 
While waste managers generally main-
tain that incineration and recycling can 
work together, environmentalists in 
New Haven think recycling will never 
get a fair chance if incineration moves 
next door. "The state's [commitment to 
incineration] seems to put a ceiling on 
recycling," said Suzanne Mattei, 
director of the New Haven-based 
organization, Connecticut Fund For 
the Environment. "We built the plants 
before we knew how much we could re-
cycle." But she says it is not too late for 
New Haven to break out of the burn 
mentality. "I am more and more be-
lieving that it is possible to reduce waste 
enough through recycling that we don't 
have to incinerate." 

Hamilton believes that many bureau-
crats prefer incineration because it is 
easier to implement than recycling. He 
points out that city adminstrators would 
prefer to work through established 
channels. "They'd love to have a way to 
solve this in a two-hour appointment 
with a banker and an engineer," he 
said . 
Recycling, 
however, requires 
grass-roots organization. "It's messy. 



**New Haven's Recycling Program: A Slow Start**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
You have to deal with people. John 
DeStefano doesn't have time," he said of 
New 
Have~'s Chief Administrative 
Officer. 

But John DeStefano has reacted to 
pressure from local recycling activists, 
as well as from DEP, which last year 
required that cities recycle 25 percent of 
their garbage by 1991. Spurred on by 
both fronts, DeStefano and members of 
the newly formed Solid Waste Man-
agement Commission spent the sum-
mer fine-tuning a program that will 
gradually introduce the recycling ethic 
to New Haven. The first component of 
the program involves installing volun-
tary drop-ofT centers with igloo-shaped, 
color-coded receptacles for collecting 
newspapers, bottles, and cans. Next is 
an experiment with collecting sorted 
recyclables from private homes in a 
target neighborhood. The city has also 
begun its own office paper recycling 
program, using recycled paper in two 
municipal buildings. And a govern-
ment council is currently reviewing 
proposals for a regional recycling plant 
that would clean and prepare materials 
for reuse. If the New Haven program is 
successful, it will be the most extensive 
in Connecticut. But now, a year after 
the campaign was announced, the city 
has yet to collect a single bottle. 

Critics of DeStefano's program such 
as Vincent Marottoli, a citizen serving 
on the solid waste commission, feel the 
city is not moving fast enough. "Is this a 
garbage crisis? Yes, and I don't see the 
kind of action we should be showing for 
a crisis." 

DeStefano and his staff say the pro-
cess is necessarily a slow one. A 
recycling campaign aimed at the entire 
city is.a monumental task, they say. To 
educate people about recycling, the city 
needs across-the-board advertising in 
newspapers, on television, through 
direct mail, and possibly in inserts with 
gas or telephone company bills. Mem-
bers of the commission feel such a 
broad-based advertising campaign is 
especially important in New H aven, 
where illiteracy is so pervasive. The city 
will probably hire a communications 
specialist to handle these concerns. 

New H aven's widespread poverty 
may also pose a difficulty for recycling 
coordinators. To motivate recycling, 
the city must first prove itself worthy of 
the effort. Solid waste coordinator Sue 
W eisselberg says that before the formal 
education campaign begins, the city 
must be cleaned up. She believes that 
people will recycle only if they feel that a 
clean city improves their quality of life. 
"It's an incremental process," she said. 
"This is not a suburban community of 
the white, middle class," DeStefano 
added. "We have all the challenges of an 
urban area." 

But some critics wonder if the 
administration's agenda will really meet 
those challenges. Community activist 
Hamilton thinks that the city's hesi-
tation in recycling is an expression of 
racism and self-protection. "The city 
thinks poor people, black people won't 
recycle." In fact, he said, they won't 
recycle only so long as N~w H aven continues to ignore their needs. If New 
H aven's priorities remain office space 
and condominium development rather 
than education and low-income 
housing, 
people won't care about 
recycling, Hamilton said. "In order for 
people to recycle, they need to feel 
invested and empowered in the com-
munity, a part of society." Only when 
the city realizes the extent of reciprocity 
required will municipal attitudes 
change. "For me, 
that's exciting. 
(R ecycling] has the potential to make 
major social concessions." 


**HAIR GROUP • SKIN CLINIQUE**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
HAIR GROUP • SKIN CLINIQUE 
hair 
nalls 
makeup 
waxing 
facials 
ADVOCATE 
B 
E 
5 
T 
()J 
NEW HAVEN 
1 g a a 
916 whalley • new haven 
387-8799 
New Haven 
will never 
be the 
same ... 
again 
Voted 
" Best 
Women's 
Boutique" 
by New Hoven 
Advocate 
16 The New Journal/October 21, 1988


**Freddy Fixer and Rainbow Recycling**
**Author: Florence Williams**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

Freddy Fixer would then seU the ma-
terials to major recycling plants. The 
idea has grown so popular that this faU 
he switched to a bigger truck, now 
servicing 170 households and a number 
of small businesses. The New Haven 
Independent has heralded him as a 
"recycling hero." 

"Starting this little project has had a 
galvanizing effect on the people of New 
Haven," Weinstein said. "It's given 
them an opportunity to recycle where 
they were frustrated before." In ad-
dition to making people happy, re-
cycling has huge economic potential 
"I want recycling to become a part of the 
economic fabric and not just an ethical 
thing. To do anything in our society, 
we have to change economic relations." 

Rainbow Recycling has done just that, 
saving commercial clients hundreds of 
dollars a month in dumping fees by 
carting away bulky recyclables. "This is 
a very profitable business," he added. 

But Weinstein is not in it for the 
money, in fact, he and his new partners 
hope to work themselves out of exis-
tence by turning the job over to the city. 
Their basic goal is to prove that re-
cycling can work for residences a'l weU 
as for business. Whether the city 
will take their success as proof remains 
uncertain. 

In the meantime, officials are trying 
to ease the garbage crunch by keeping 
the present dump alive as long as pos-
sible. In an effort to make using the 
landfill less attractive, the city recently 
doubled the cost of dumping for com-
mercial haulers from S48 to S98 a ton. 
This increase is passed directly to 
businesses and apartment buildings, 
which are finding the idea of recycling 
more and more appealing. 

DeStefano and the solid waste com-
mission have also presented 12 or-
dinances to the Board of Aldermen. 
The most controversial of these is a total 
ban of corrugated cardboard from the 
landfill, with fines as high as S5,000 for 
violations. Cardboard takes up more


room in the dump than any other ma-
terial: Of the 525 tons of garbage 
brought to the New Haven dump every 
day, approximately 20 percent is card-
board. The ordinance, if passed, is 
expected 
to 
infuriate 
commercial 
disposal companies and may lead bus-
inesses 
to independent 
recycling. 

DeStefano's office is compiling a list of 
recycling companies that will accept the 
cardboard. Other proposed ordinances 
would prohibit residents from dumping 
bulk trash on Saturdays and create five 
"public space inspectors" to issue civil 
fines for illegal disposal. 

DeStefano expects these measures to 
prolong the life of the landfill by several 
months. The city engineer has also 
applied to DEP for a permit to expand 
the dump·, requesting ten extra vertical 
feet and a horizontal expansion of the 
south side. If DEP grants the permit, 
the life of the landfill could double to 
two years. 

Sooner or later the city will have 
to make long-term decisio.ns. While 
incineration may be easier to im-
plement from 
a 
bureaucratic per-
spective, the city would then have to 
contend with strong community resent-
ment. Recycling may be cheaper and 
safer, but it might not be effective 
without a profound alteration in urban 
conditions. However the city chooses to 
treat solid waste, it will have to weigh 
the needs of the administration against 
those of the community. In choosing 
where to build plants and what kind of 
disposal to employ, New Haven has far 
more at stake than simply where it will 
put its garbage. 

• 
Florence Williams zs a senzor zn Berkeley 
College. 


280 YORK STREET 
NEW HAVEN, CT. 06511 
(203) 777-1111



**Title: Yale's Winning Way**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
t women practjce with the team. Staying 
irt a group helps them improve tht"ir 
performance by traif\ing with better 
runners, 

Young builds conljdcnce 
rather than 
competitiveness by 
assigning a leader for each mile·, whom 
no one may pass. This strategy has 
worked. The only athlctcs to b<"al Yale 
in tbe national meet last year came 
from schools ttiat recruit with sizable 
athletic scholarships. The runners' 
group effort has developed their skill 
and pro,·ided them with support. 
Sarah P. Smith (CC '89), team 
captain, chan~cs from champion to 
cheerleader as soon a-. she and the 
other three leading runners fini11h a 
race. Coaxing runners towards the last 
marker with an enthusiastic *good job" 
or "keep going." she tries to give back 
some of the help she ha~ received from 
the team. "I know that if I had gone to 
a smaller school where maybe as a 
freshman I 
would have been the 
number one runner, I would never be 


Sarah E. Smith and Sarah P. Smith 
group. Ranked by recruiters as one of 
the top high school distance runners in 
the nation, she received a lot of 
attention from colleges where students, 
as she puts it, run for a salary. But she 
did not want to compete for a school 
that demanded its investment pay off. 
Beck chose Yale, expecting to excel on 
the team. Although she considered 
Young the best coach in the Ivy 
League, she had no idea of the strength 
of Yale's runners. And if she had, Beck 
probably wouldn't have come. "It was a 
real surprise to get here and not be 
number one on the team, because I 
just figured that Yale is an Ivy League 
school- they don't really take their 
sports seriously," she says. 
Beck 
became one of the team's top four 
runners, but not the decided leader. 
. After a year of competing, Beck 
began to fit in. "If you come into the 
team with a competitive attitude, you 
are going to be stewing in your own 
juices because there is no one to 
compete against," she says. "It doesn't 
occur to anyone to be competitive 
because it is such a waste of time to be 
competitive with people you spend two 
hours every day with." Although 
occasionally she still feels a little out of 
20 The New JoumaVOctober 21, 1988 
place as the only Literature major 
among many pre-meds, she says it is 
only because conversation during long-
distance runs can be like biology 
sections. Beck says she now views 
racing as something required in order 
to keep training with the team. 

The training is what brings the 
women together-often up to three 
hours a day. The runners' success has 
depended on the regular practice of 
their sport and on the unique training 
program, incorporating a special pool 
workout that serves as a model for 
other schools. After building up their 
mileage over the summer, the athletes 
start the year with 45-50 miles of 
running a week. They run eight miles 
two of those days. In between these 
distance runs, they have pool workouts 
at 8:00 in the morning and interval 
workouts- short, 
fast bouts of 
running- in the afternoon. All this 
prepares the runners for Friday meets. 
On Saturdays, even after a competi-
tion, the athletes run 10-12 miles, and 
every other Sunday is a light day of 3-5 
miles. Weight lifting is optional. 
Kristin Perini (ES '90) works well 
under this system. She transferred to 
Yale last semester from Harvard and 
"Running is not a 
feminine thing to do. 
You go out and you 
sweat and you build 
muscle instead of fat 
in nice places." 
may provide the team with the strong 
fifth runner it lacks. In cross country 
meets, only the first five finishers 
score. Although Yale has four powerful 
runners, it needs a fifth. This season 
marks Perini's 
first cross country 
racing in two-and-a-half years. She 
was the number one distance recruit 
from high school, but burned out on 
running and quit Harvard's team the 
end of her sophomore year. Now. after 
time off and a new school, she has 
joined Yale's team and has regained 
interest in running. "I've never been on 
a team that is so supportive of one 
another," Perini says. At Harvard, the 
coach never let the top runners develop 
into a team and pushed them to the 
point of injury-running up to 20 
miles even the day after a meet. Perini 
spent most of her two years injured. 
Still nursing running injuries and a 
summer-long lung infection, she is 
having a frustrating recovery. Slowly, 
she has improved her running times. 
But this cross country season might 
be her last: She may be disqualfied 
next season for exceeding a five-year 
limit on enrollment as an under-
graduate. 
Coach Young calls · Perini the 


hardest worker on the team. Long-
distance 
runners are notoriously 
dedicated, and their intensity 
sometimes makes them push too hard. 
If anything, one of Young's most 
crucial 
roles is 
to temper 
team 
members' zeal. "If someone wanted to 
run more miles, Mark probably would 
not let 
them," Smith says. 
"It's 
important that you put those-limits on 
someone who is a distance runner 
because you can become compulsive 
about it. It's very easy to think more is 
better, but what happens is that you 
just destroy yourself." Young keeps in 
close touch with the runners and alters 
the practice schedule if they are 
injured. 

Rebecca Rivkin (ES '90) appreciates 
Young's conscientious coaching style. "I 
really feel guilty if I miss a workout 
because that's the way I am. I feel like I 
always have to be there for the team, 
be there for myself. But sometimes if 
you're not feeling well, he's not the type 
of coach that says, 'Even if it hurts, run 
through it.' He's the opposite," Rivkin 
says. When Rivkin was injured last 
winter, she worked out in the pool 
twice a day and didn't run on the roads 
at all. When she returned to racing, 
Susanna Beck and Rebecca Rivkin 
she felt even stronger than before. Her 
performance qualified her for the 
Olympic trials in 
a long-distance 
event. 

The team's pool workouts mean that 
the runners can train less on the road 
than most cross country athletes. In 
the pool, the women still run- without 
touching the bottom. Then, holding 
onto a rope, they do intervals. Young 
estimates that each session in the pool 
adds five to seven miles to the total 
weekly distance without adding those 
miles in road-impact. This practice has 
created a marked decrease in injuries 
for the team. The Yale women's cross 
country team is one of the first in the 
country to use pool exercise. 

Young started the pool program in 
1984, his fifth year coaching. Two of 
his athletes had severe stress fractures , 
and he decided to experiment with an 
exercise regimen in the pool to help 
them stay in shape. When one of those 
women set her best time in a track 
meet with only a few weeks of road 
'training foliowing her recovery, Young 
immediately started all the long-
distance runners on morning water 
workouts. Since then he has seen far 
fewer injuries from overuse. 


**Title: Yale Women's Cross Country Team Faces Health Challenges**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Coach Young tells the runners: 
"You go to class. I get paid to 
worry." 
Women athletes are particularly 
concerned about injury. "You get to a 
point when you are running 60 or 70 
miles per week, and your bodies break 
down, particularly women's," Young 
explains. Medical researchers have 
only partial answers for women's 
greater susceptibility to InJUry as 
compared to men's. Intensive exercise 
can lead to lower estrogen levels, which 
can cause stress fractures and the bone 
d isease osteoperosis. Women's wider 
hips put greater pressure on joints,~ . 
especially 
the 
knees. 
The pool 
workouts have made these localized 
health concerns far less prominent for 
the team. 

The women have more generalized 
health concerns as well. Many of these 
athletes don't menstruate, a condition 
called amenorrhea. Those who do get 
their period often have irregular 
cycles. The runners may lack the 
necessary body weight for normal 
menstruation; 
inadequate nutrition 
combined with rigorous exercise can 
also play a role. 

Many doctors believe it is dangerous 
if women do not shed the uterine lining 
every three months. Some members of 
the team have never gotten their 
periods because they were running 
throughout adolescence, and these 
women could risk infertility. A few of 
the athletes decided to go on the Pill to 
induce a regular cycle. But most of 
them have stopped, uncomfortable 
with taking artificial hormones. 

Anemia, or iron deficiency, has also 
been a problem for the team in the 
past, keeping last year's captain from
competition for a month-and-a-half. 
Long-distance running causes slight 
but steady gastro-intestinal bleeding, 
which partially explains the prevalence 
of anemia in both men and women run-
ners. Now all team members are tested 
at the beginning of the season and take 
iron supplements if necessary. The 
cross country teams are the only ones 
at Yale to receive blood tests as a 
group. 

The group members help each other 
deal with these problems. But the 
health issue that comes up more than 
any other is weight. H ow much the 
runners weigh, whether they are too 
heavy or too thin, what kind of food is 
good for them, how little someone is 
eating- these are all topics the women 
say never really leave their conver-
sation. The typical body type on the 
team is thin. Some of the runners are 
even skinny. Whereas athletes say that 
weight that doesn't work for them 
works against them, a few team mem-
bers feel this philosophy can go too far. 
At times the team's group dynamics 
have wor:ked against the runners by 
setting a low body weight as the 
standard. 

Sarah E. Smith (ES '91) noticed this 
standard as soon as she joined the team 
her freshman year. "I came here, and I 
thought I was the heaviest person on 
the team because everyone was just so 
thin," she says. To distinguish between 
Sarah E. Smith and the captain, Sarah 
P. Smith, teammates call them "the 
younger Sarah" and "Sarah, the elder.~ 
Last year the younger Sarah set a 
course record as the fastest freshman in 
the league and has now moved in to the 
top four. Although she hasn't lost 
weight to fit in with the team, she still 
feels self-conscious around the others. 
"I still look at myself, compare, and 
think 'If you lost weight, you would be 
a better runner,"' she says. 

For some of her teammates, keeping 
weight on is a problem. Each hour of 
running burns around 1,000 calories 
more than what the average person 
uses in the course of a day. To 
compensate becomes a difficult task 
when team members try to stay vege-
tarian and eat healthful foods from the 
dining hall. Young encourages the 
runners to eat a lot, to make up for the 
calorie-loss, but he realizes that he has 
little .influence. 

There are many 
aspects of the team that he can't 
affect. "People are going to have to get 
that lab done, they are going to have to 
get that paper in, and they are going to 
pull all-nighters. They are going to be 
emotionally drained and strained as 
well as physically drained and strained 
and doing that on top of training. 
T hose are the things I don't have any 
control over," Young says. "So what I 
do is have nightmares about it." 

Team members' weight is not only a 
problem Young can't solve, it is also 
one of the most important concerns for 
the team. Young realizes that control-
ling weight falls somewhere between 
discipline and obsession for many 
runners. The easy description would 
be anorexia nervosa, 
an eating 
disorder that is a documented disease 
for many long-distance runners. And 
in the past, some team members have 
been diagnosed with the disorder. One 
woman was pulled from competition 
because she weighed under 95 pounds 
-a high figure compared to the 88 
pounds she had weighed earlier that 
year. But Young warns against taking 
severe examples like this as the rule. 
"Anybody who sees somebody as thin, 
there's a popular tendency to label that 
as anorexic. There have only been a 
couple of people who actually fit the 
definition of anorexia," he says. 

If a runner does have an eating 
disorder, then Young steps in with help 
from University Health Services. The 
anorectic is assigned a "weight doctor" 
who monitors the athlete's progress 
towards a healthy weight. A runner 
identified with a problem now must 
consistently come in at 100 pounds to 
be allowed to race, regardless of height 
and build. Dr. Jane Rasmussen, chief 
of student medicine, who set the level, 
says the 100-pound standard must be 
the very minimum. By scheduling 
weigh-ins anywhere from once a week 
to daily, she has had success in getting 
anorexic runners to attain a safe 
weight. 

But the solution to serious weight 
problems goes beyond a balanced diet 
and following doctors' advice. There is 
a psychological motivation that keeps 
some runners both exercising and 
starving themselves. "I don't think it 
has anything definitely to do with 
running, but I think there is a type of 
personality-you want to excel, you 
want to be noticed," Rivkin says. 

Perini agrees that extreme thinness 
stems from other problems, but she 
sees running as conducive to obses-
siveness. She has the most solid build 
on the team, which at most means she 
has broad shoulders. Perini feels that 
her body type can help off-set the thin 
image of the team. "I feel like I can set 
an example," she says. "I am bigger 
than a lot of the girls on the team, and 
I think I can prove- if I start running 
well- than you can be pretty big and 
still run well."


**Title: Weight and Identity Among Women Runners**
**Author: Skye Wilson**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Often concerns about a runner's 
weight get aired among the team 
members. That's why last fall, a few of 
the athletes started to worry about the 
current captain. Sarah P. Smith had 
unintentionally dropped ten pounds 
over the course of the season, just 
because she was trying to stick to 
healthy foods. "Sometimes I get so 
wrapped up in the season and I don't 
realize it, and I then step on a scale and 
it's a shock. It's like, 'Oh, my God, I 
thought I was eating, but I guess I 
wasn't.' And that just shouldn't 
happen. It's not like I have that much 
to lose." She knows she is below a 
natural weight for non-runners, but is 
pleased to have gained back the ten 
pounds. 

All the runners on the team share a 
common image as women athletes. 
"For a man to be an athlete, you are 
working toward the ideal body image 
or the ideal image of what a man 
should be," 
Captain Smith says. 
"When you're a woman athlete, you're 
going against the social ideal of what a 
woman should be. I know that I don't 
look very womanly. Running is not a 
feminine thing to do. You go out and 
you sweat and you exert yourself and 
you build muscle instead of fat in nice 
places." Their sense of identity as 
women brings them together not only 
as teammates but also during 
competitions. "You're not just running 
for yourself. You're running for your 
team. You're all out there together, 
you're breathing hard, you're all going 
through the same pain. And you know 
that if your teammate during a race is 
going to go through that, then you 
can," Rivkin says. At the team's first 
meet, the women ran in a tight group. 
Rebecca Rivkin fell twice, but her 
teammates waited for her to recover. 
They slowed their own times to include 
her in their finish. Kristin Perini 
struggled but ended with a pretty good 
time. Warm-down was several more 
miles of running. 


**Title: Breaking Up the Party**
**Author: Cynthia Cameros**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

The sign outside reads "Office of 
Registrars" and to the right stands an 
automatic voting machine. Inside the 
office, Clerk-typist Sharon Ferrucci 
talks on the phone. Althea Tyson, the 
deputy registrar, files papers at her desk 
three feet away. These few feet seemed 
much greater just over a month ago 
when the two women were battling for 
the position of Democratic Registrar of 
Voters. The Democratic party passed 
over Tyson, a black woman, and nominated Ferrucci for the job-breaking a 
120-year-old tradition of handing the 
position 
to the deputy. 

Tyson 
challenged Ferrucci, an Italian, but lost 
by a small margin in the primary. The 
office seems quiet now; Ferrucci will 
take over her new post in November. 
But the fight has led to accusations that 
the Democratic party in New Haven 
excludes those who might make too 
much noise. 

Political battles in New Haven rarely 
arise between Democrats and Republicans. Ten out of eleven registered 
voters in the city are Democrats, and 
there has not been a Republican mayor 
since 1952. Instead, the conflicts arise 
within the Democratic party: between 
its liberals and its conservatives, the 
developers and the slow-growth advocates, and the Irish and the Italians. 
Italian names top City Hall's roster, but 
they still retain the support of a broad 
coalition. During Mayor Ben DiLieto's 
eight years in office, he has faced only 
an occasional challenge to his post, and 
last year he won his reelection by a 
landslide. This year, 
the DiLieto 
machine has met more than a few 
challenges, and another may arrive 


with next November's mayoral race. 

The job for which Tyson and 
Ferrucci were vying, the Registrar of 
Voters, is a low profile but crucial 
position in the Democratic machine. 
The registrar oversees voting in the city 
by setting the polling places and organizing voter registration. The outgoing 
Democratic Registrar Frank Rossi did 
not have an active registration policy, 
but Tyson, his deputy, wanted one. In 
a city where the minority population is 
growing from 38 percent in 1980 to an 
expected 58 percent in 1992, active 
registration would mean that most new 
voters would be minorities. Tyson tried 
to make voter registration a practice. 
She says that this policy scared the 
machine. "My feeling is that the 
Democratic party in the city of New 
Haven is afraid more blacks and 
Hispanics will register to vote and 
through that process obtain some 
power," Tyson said. 

It was this fear, Tyson believes, that 
made the machine play it safe and 
encourage Ferrucci to oppose her for 
registrar. But according to Ferrucci, "It 
was a personal thing I had to do for 
myself. I made the decision to run." 

Both candidates began their campaigns 
by trying to gain the party nomination 
from the Town Committee-the 60 
ward chairs who elect the party's 
officers. Nomination is tantamount to 
election in New Haven because Democrats don't run against Republicans, 
who have their own Registrar of 
Voters. The evening in late July when 
the Town Committee had to choose, 
they dined at the Melrose Club. In the 
basement room, hazy with cigarette 
smoke, the roll call began ward by 
ward. As Town Chairman Arthur 
Barbieri announced their final vote of 
38-16 for Ferrucci, the dinner broke up. 
A small group of Tyson supporters rose 
from their seats and marched out of the 
room, carrying placards implying that 
the vote was racist. Several supporters 
of Ferrucci called this disruption "rude." 

Ferrucci's supporters on the Town 
Committee deny that their politics are 
racist. They said they chose Ferrucci 
because she was a friend and was 
competent. Richard Abate, a 14th 
Ward Co-chair, said the committee 
should nominate the most qualified 
person rather than hand the job over to 
the next in line. "The position shouldn't 
be a question of tradition, but whether 
we believe the person is going to get the 
job done. I've known Sharon for 15 
years. I knew I could count on her to 
get the job done." Although he couldn't 
recall any instance when Tyson failed to 
do her job, her casual attitude bothered 
him. "She seemed to expect the nomination would fall into her lap because 
she was the deputy registrar." 

From where 19th Ward Co-chair Al 
Mayhew sat, the committee's vote 
looked like a power struggle. "The 
switch was unfair, given her ability and 
time 
in 
the 
position (of deputy 
registrar). She deserved to be registrar," 
Mayhew said. Since Tyson had served 
in her position for 11 years, it wasn't a 
question of her competence, he said. "It 
was a question of control," said Frank 
Logue, former mayor of New Haven, 
who believes that Tyson was less 
malleable than her colleague. 

"Ferrucci was a friend of the party. 
When you have primary elections within the party, the registrar of voters is an 
important figure." He claims that the 
Democratic Town Committee was 
solicited by the town chairman to 
support Ferrucci. But Joe Carbone, the 
mayor's executive aide, said that the 
ward chairs made their decisions 
independently. 

The New Journal/October 21, 1988 27



**Title: The Tyson/Ferrucci Election**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Without the nomination, Tyson decided to go ahead with the fight and petitioned to run against Ferrucci in a primary. She decidc::d to run as a matter of principle. Tyson felt that she deserved the job, and since she planned on retiring in four years, she felt she had nothing to lose. This pragmatic bent is evident in her campaign; she did not want to alienate any group so she left the issue of racism to the media. "We had trouble dealing with the "R" word," said Shirlee Taylor Haizlip, Tyson's campaign manager. "White people are uncomfortable dealing with the subject." 

While Tyson rallied for fairness, Ferrucci had difficulty deciding on a campaign issue. Shortly after the convention, the registrar disqualified hundreds of invalid signatures on Tyson's petition for a primary. Competence became the slogan of the Ferrucci campaign. Tyson herself dismisses the incident as something drummed up by the machine to discourage her from running. When that didn't work, Tyson claims that the Town Chairman offered her a civil service job that would pay ten or fifteen thousand dollars more than deputy registrar. Chairman Barbieri admits that he offered her another job, but says that money never entered into the arrangement. Barbieri and the machine did have reason to worry. Despite the forces working against Tyson, she lost by only 750 votes. 

This narrow election margin reveals some weaknesses in what was, under the operation of former Town Chairman Vinnie Mauro, a fine-tuned political machine. After seven years as town chairman, Mauro died in an auto accident last December. Barbieri, who had held the job from 1953 to 1978, seemed a logical replacement. For his early political work, he earned the title "the great conciliator." But Barbieri had some catching-up to do and was unable to fill Mauro's shoes. According to former mayor Logue, "Mauro over the years learned the value of inclusive politics. He came to the belief that inclusive politics were winning politics." Some see a power vacuum at the top of the party, which has allowed a recent breakdown in operations. 

The machine did churn out many votes for Ferrucci in Bellavista and the East Shore, its most reliable wards. Although the majority in these districts voted for Ferrucci, the turnout was a disappointment for Tommy Antarino, 17th Ward Co-chair. In his East Shore ward only 35 percent of the registered voters cast a ballot. "There was not any interest in that position," Antarino explained of the general apathy toward the low-profile post. And even in Ferrucci's home ward, Fair Haven, 38 percent of the registered voters came out. Ward Chair Abate compared coaxing voters to the polls with pulling teeth. While others attribute the close election to supporters' assumptions that Ferrucci would win, some were surprised by the results. 

The Tyson camp was equally surprised- because they didn't think they would do so well. Tyson even found a few votes where she didn't expect to. She gained some votes in a backlash against Mayor DiLieto's opposition to the opening of Ceasar's Department Store. And the voters in Ward One, who are mostly Yale students, came out 170 to 3 in favor of Tyson, reflecting not only support for Tyson but a protest against the change in polling location to off-campus. Although Rossi says the move had nothing to do with a fear of Tyson support in that ward, President of the College Democrats Carla Finkelstein has doubts. "The only reason we can think that the polling place was moved was to keep away Yale students," Finkelstein said. Sixty-five more students voted than in the mayor's primary. 

Finkelstein believes that turnout would never have been so high if the polling spot hadn't been changed. This voting windfall could not compensate for Tyson's limited support among the city's blacks. The average turnout in the city's seven predominantly black wards was only 16 percent. The record black turnout for Jesse Jackson in the city's Democratic presidential primary last spring provided the Tyson campaign with an example of what they might accomplish. 

The high profile of the Tyson/Ferrucci election and the media play on the issue of racism also made Tyson supporters think that they might receive a higher turnout than usual, especially in the black wards. 

Mayhew, Co-chair of the 19th Ward, attributed the low black turnout to apathy. "They don't think primary elections are as important. If half the people who had promised to vote for us had gone out, we would have had a great turnout," Mayhew said. The leaders of Ward 20 worked hard to get people to vote and had the highest turnout of the black wards, with 21 percent of their registered voters. "The problem was the people in the area were lackadaisical," Mayhew said. Tyson's campaign manager, Haizlip, blames the ward chairs themselves for apathy. "The ward chairs didn't pull out the vote for Althea. People will come out if they pull them out. People normally pull out the vote in black wards. They did not pull people out like they have in every other political race," she said. But Lisa Sullivan (GRD '90), a Tyson campaign aide, sees much more than apathy on the part of the chairs. She sees an active unwillingness to get out the vote. 

Sullivan and others charge the city's black leadership with an historical loyalty to the machine. A number of blacks started in city politics during Barbieri's first term as town chairman. Several local black leaders, including State Senator John Daniels, publicly supported Tyson's campaign. But the list of those who did not endorse her is longer. "As we got more involved in politics and we began to see what politics in New Haven is and what it isn't, we began to see problems with leadership in the black community," Sullivan said. "Its loyalty wasn't to its constituency, but rather to the machine. My sense is that it's a moral dilemma for them because I would grant that some of them do have some genuine concern for the state of the black community." 

Even if the black leaders are restricted by the machine, they are no different from the average New Haven politician who must work with the machine to stay in office. This reality forced Tyson to look beyond the established black leadership for assistance on her campaign. In fact, that support sought her out. Sullivan and a group of other young blacks entering New Haven politics came to form the backbone of Tyson's campaign. "Here we came from nowhere, beholden to no one, except for, probably, our idealistic values of what politics ought to be in our community," Sullivan said. If they were idealistic about politics, they were nonetheless pragmatic about the organization of the campaign. 


**Title: New Haven's Mayoral Race**
**Author: Cynthia Cameros**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
list. A successful insurgency would need 
the votes and financial support of white 
liberals, developers, Hispanics, three or 
four middle class white wards, and 
about 85 percent of the registered black 
voters. In order to come even close, 
Daniels has to run a cautious campaign. 
According to Rae, "He can't run a racial 
campaign and make it work. He can't 
run a radical campaign and live with his 
past record." He can run on a critique 
of DiLieto's development policies, 
perhaps with a theme like "People Not 
Places." 

The young black politicians who 
worked with Tyson could play an im-
portant role in· Daniels' campaign. They 
will probably lend him their help, but it 
would be erroneous to assume that the 
black community will automatically 
support a black candidate. In the 1987 
mayoral race in New Haven, more 
blacks voted for DiLieto than for his 
black opponent, Bill Jones. Even if 
blacks don't vote against Daniels, they 
could seriously damage his election 
prospects by not voting at all. 

Low black voter turnout could be the 
most likely scenario. From the bottom 
looking up, impoverished blacks see a 
monolithic machine. "For most of them, 
they think the black leadership in New 
Haven is bankrupt. They don't think 
this leadership can change the reality of 
their day-to-day existence," Sullivan 
said. From the top gazing down, the 
machine looks fragile. That seems to be 
why the Democratic leadership felt 
threatened by a black woman as Regis-
trar of Voters. While the machine tries 
to retain control, Daniels is preparing 
for an upcoming campaign, and Tyson 
is busy registering more people to vote. 
• 
Cynthia Cameros, a junzor in Ezra Stiles 
Coll~ge, is associau editor of TNJ.



JACKSON-MARVIN HARDWARE 
established 1922 
Everything for your dorm or apartment 
~/ 
• Paints 
• Housewares 
• Building Supplies 
• Tools 
843 Whalley Ave., Westville 
Mon.-Fri.: 9-5:30 Sat. 9-5 
387-2521 

C..opiCs 
table tents,posters, 
course materials,& whatnot 
-still the lowest prices in Elm City 
149 York 8 to 5 Monday-Friday 432-2894 
Yale Quick Copy Center 

NAf'LES 
:_jl. 
-l 
the ultimate Yale experience 
90 WALL ST.- NEW HAVEN- 776-9021 

Oldest Bank in the Southwest 
New Mexico Banquest Corporation 
Post Office Box 6107, Santa Fe, New Mexico 87502 
Member F.D.I.C.

