Publication date: December 14, 1969
Volume: three
Issue number: six

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors: Herman Hong, Paul Goldberger
- Business Manager: Stephen Thomas
- Designer: Nicki Kalish
- Copy Editors: Richard Caples, Stuart Klawans
- Advertising Manager: Robert Kirkman
- Assistant Editors: Charles Draper, Bryan Di Salvatore, George Kannar, Edward Landler, David Meter, Sam Miller
- Circulation Managers: John Callaway, Thomas Davison
- Associate Business Manager: William Palmer
- Promotion Director: Charles H. S. Chapman
- Contributing Editors: Susan Braudy, David Freeman, Mopsy Strange Kennedy, Lawrence Lasker, Jonathan Lear, Michael Lerner, Leo Ribuffo, Walter Wagoner
- Staff: Jay Adkins, Richard Conniff, Jack Friedman, Joanne Lawless, Cathie Lutter, Patrick Lydon, Gus Oliver, Pat O'Rourke, Manuel Perez, Barbara Rich, James Rosenzweig, Lynne Rutkin, Ann Wagner


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- American Architecture and Urbanism: a review - Alexander Garvin
- The Fourteenth Street Swatter - David Freeman
- Searching for consciousness in California: Esalen - Alton Wasson and Roz Driscoll
- Vietnam: a search for perspective - Bill Stotl
- Yale and its Five-Year B.A. - Richard Conniff


**Title: Comment**
**Author: Bryan DiSalvatore**
**Page number(s): 2**

Comment: the numbers game, the fifties game, and, 
if that isn't enough, the ol' time strippers' game. 
Numbers 
What kind of a day was it? A day like all days, filled with 
those events which alter and illuminate our lives-only 
we were there. 

You bet your sweet one we were. From the first blurred 
New York Times column the Monday after Thanksgiving, 
which was a real joke this year. 

It was a day of increasing reality, disbelief and im-
mediacy, with the morning speeding by and huddled 
groups at lunch tables chain smoking and almost joking 
about the imminent blast of outrage soon to be perpetrated 
on American youth. 

A day of increasing sweatshiver with the reason not 
until eight that night. Prime beef would stand naked and 
helpless before the Court of Fate and Stupidity-and book 
larnin' don't do no good 'tall in karma country. 

The afternoon a replay of puberty's first possible ball. 
One can't really plan that which comes from above. One 
must hope for the best and stride whistling into the 
dark. Right. Activities are incidental, the future is what 
counts, and that's at eight. 

Conversations concern matinees of youth and door 
prizes won by the friend you let into line behind you; 
the future, if; if not; the absurdity of television as a 
medium; and birthdates. Nothing is said. 

Once again, a feeling of world rumble and celestial 
cacaphony. Once again, brought to you by everyone pos-
sible. Of course the Kennedy assassinations were men-
tioned, and the Cuban Missile Crisis and Shirley Jackson. 
But they didn't really seem too important Monday night. 

A night when Point Blank's dominant theme is paranoia.


Into a black and blue television room. Laugh-In without 
the audio, WYBC supplying that, visions of conspiracies 
as Laugh-In skits seem synched with NUMBER VOICE, 
who is interrupted only by tragic audible despair. 

Sam who studies stops in hopefully, "Have they called 
September 14th yet?"' 

Hard knocks and wet socks. Pain. Winners and losers. 
Groups just sitting, smoking, looking beyond, eyes cJosed, 
heads bobbing, sigh, sigh, shit and sigh. 

Eventually, the wasted participants appear drifting 
throughout the darkness, exchanging numbers, asking 
about friends, throwing and kicking things, just walking. 

Shadows merge, sweet strength in numbers. Students 
forced to deal with ultimates, many dragged for good into 
outlaw consciousness. 

The women of America stood weeping as they 
watched. No one was cool or ugly Monday night, just 
dancin' beneath a diamond sky or in Ratzo Rizzo death 
slumps. The ship is slippin' from the dock, Johnny's off 
to war. The best night of the year to get laid, a further 
forging of a generation; or a diving of the grateful and the 
dead. One thing's for certain, you'll surely be a-hurtin'. 

Bryan DiSalvatore



**Title: Days of Grease**
**Author: Patrick Lydon**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

Days of Grease 
Sha-Na-Na was a fabulous success at Yale, two thousand 
cheering people, some of them greased up, rave reviews, 
and lots of money for the Record. It was the Harvard 
weekend's Rock 'n' Roll Revival, the Grease Festival, 
cathartic therapy for college kids on their way out of the 
'60's. In a certain sense, it was just the big bash on Satur-
day night; then again it was an economy trip back to the 
Fifties which many people there neither remembered 
nor admired very much. It was a surprizing trip. Grease 
was nice, hanging on the juke box was cool, bot rods were 
very definitely the big thing. You didn't have to worry 
about being white because blacks were still niggers then. 
You could shout "We like Ike" or even "Ike is a Kike" 
and "Get the Gooks." Because it happened at Yale, you 
didn't have to worry that the real old hoods who made the 
music would come back and ·make trouble. 

It was a comic routine, but it should have been much 
more. Rock 'n' Roll is more than that, and to turn it into 
a joke ip a denial of the real energy of the Fifties and of 
the relf.ion of that energy to the music of all of the Sixties. 
''Teen lAngel" is a tremendous cliche. But it deals with 
love and death and the horror of a fatal car accident. If 
one wants to accept the real energy of that song, it is 
tragic, and meaningfully so. Hot rods were not a joke 
either, and the meaning of dancing around the juke box 
isn't really different than dancing now or anytime in his-
tory. Chuck Berry's song "School Days," about listening 
to rock after school, brought on hippies and the "rock 
culture" that we are a part of now. 

The music itself is worthy of sincere attention. No 
matter how simple or badly executed, it was effective. It 
made kids dance all over the country, it turned them on. 
The "magic of the rock 'n roll, the magic that can set you 
free," worked then and it works now-same rock 'n roll, 
same magic. 

Compare Sha-N a-Na with the Beatles and Rolling 
Stones in 1963. They all rediscovered the power and 
vibrancy of old Rock 'n' Roll. The Beatles and the Stones 
felt rhythm and blues was still valid, and they poured their 
own energy into it. They did old music, and it was NEW. 
It was Chuck Berry's, and it was their own. Their careers 
rest on their tasting ability to feel the energies of their 
own times, and effectively express them, relating them 
to old sounds and future forces. They keep reinvesting 
their musical wealth and they borrow from every source, 
but the music is fresh and honest. 

Sha-Na-Na just have not done that. They are on a 
memory trip. They are doing someone else's show adding 
nothing of their own. By not committing themselves, 
maybe they meant to force the audience to commit itself. 
But at Yale, it did not. Sha-Na-Na's tack of sensitivity to 
the music promoted a separation from its real forces. I 
heard several people say that it was the best rock concert 
they bad ever been to. How can that be true when they 
clearly were not touched by what happened, when they 
had not really been into that experience? Before Sha-N a-
Na can honestly sing "Rock 'n' Roll is here to stay ... 
rock wilt go down in history·• they will have to com-
municate the real magic. When the revival is not a memory 
trip, it will not be exclusive either. The people will know 
that "Too Much Monkey Business," "Heat Wave," and 
"Help" have to be revived. When they dance the Lindy, 
there wilt still be the monkey, the shimmy, and even the 
Freddy. 

Patrick Lydon


**Title: American Architecture and Urbanism**
**Author: Alexander Garvin**
**Page number(s): 3-4**

VincentScully'sinvitations to acom1try 
by Alexander Garvin 
American Architecture and Urbanism 
by Vincent Scully. Frederick A . Praeger, 
New York, 1969,275 pages, $18.50. 

c
ities are in fashion, and Praeger has 
rushed to meet the vogue by publishing 
Vincent ScuJiy's American Architecture 
and Urbanism. Happily, this publisher has 
produced not a fashionable coffee-table 
decoration advertising a concern for the 
"urban crisis" but a profound interpreta-
tion of the American landscape by Yale 
University's most popular lecturer and the 
nation's most creative architectural 
historian. 

Many of the readers of this book may 
think that its author is, in fact, simply 
responding to contemporary fashion by 
writing a book on "urbanism." After all, 
he writes that his thinking has undergone 
a "major change since 1961." However, 
those of us who have had the privilege of 
hearing Scully's lectures (as I have as 
auditor, student and fascinated listener 
since 1958) wiU know that many of the 
ideas in this new book have been present 
from the very beginning. They have only 
been sharpened in the light of travels to 
new places, exposure to new architectural 
personalities and acquaintance with new 
scholarship. Thus, Scully's trip to Russia 
has led to fascinating comparisons of the 
Capitol in Washington with St. Isaac's in 
Leningrad, the Municipal Building in New 
York City with Stalin's wedding cakes in 
Moscow, and Chicago's Tribune competi-
tion entries with designs for Izvestia. His 
visits to the Southwest have led to insights 
into the architecture of Pueblo villages. 
His exposure to Robert Venturi has re-
sulted in voyages along America's ever-
growing network of neon-decorated high-
ways. His reading of Gans, Tunnard and 
Tom Wolfe has taken him away from 
writing only about great monuments and 
led him to consider in this book the land-
scape of the slum, the suburb and the 
freeway. 

Though American Architectllre and 
Urbanism explores territory not yet exam-
ined when I first sat among the mesmerized 
auditors in I 00 Art Gallery, it is still fun-
damentally the same fascinating amal-
gam of scholarship, insight, humor and 
poetry that Vincent Scully presented to the 
students of History of Art 53 b. Then as 
now the major element was observation, 
not theory. Scully's major concern is for 
the forces shaping the American land-
scape. So, as he points out, while "many 
architects and critics in America and 
Englan.d" could depict the work of Mies 
van der Robe as " Renaissance architec-
ture," he could never simply equate Mice;' 
"simplified, pure, clean, generalized, 
reasonable, abstract" buildings with 
Florentine palazzi or colonial houses. 
Mies' buildings are just "not at all Renais-
sance in scale." Unlike critics who fit the 
history of architecture into neatly pack-
aged theories, Scully has been able to 
deepen his vision with time and not seri-
ously alter his perspective. He has been 
able to build upon the prior judgments of 
Giedion, Hitchcock and Johnson without 
being warped by their earlier prejudices. 
He can see colonial buildings as more than 
just the results of a building technology or 
sharpened versions of British prototypes. 

L
s new book, like Scully's earlier lec-
tures, goes beyond architectural history to 
a socio-cultural examination of the entire 
American landscape. It is a vision of "an 
archetypal colonial sense of uprootedness 
and partial alienation" that has resulted 
from the interaction of the land with its 
colonizers. Scully presents a restless people 
that has "always been the most adrift from 
precedent" and a culture that "has con-
sistently remained that of a frontier-at first 
physical, later a social and technological 
one." So it is not surprising that the open-
ing images in the book are automobiles, 
Indian tepees, and trailer camps. Further 
on he presents houses that are "above the 
land, not of it," Western main streets with 
their wooden false fronts and proletarian 
housing projects that have been created 
through a cataclysmic cutting away of the 
city fabric. This too is not surprising. The 
American landscape is not made up only of 
Jefferson's Monticello, Sullivan's Guaranty 
Building and Frank Lloyd Wright's "Fall-
ing Water." What is surprising is that 
Scully can bring us to see the interaction of 
great monuments with our desire for dis-
posable buildings that are both "new im-
proved" and "good old-fashioned." For 
example, Henry Hobson Richardson's 
suburban railroad stations are seen to 
combine: 

two qualities previously considered natural 
opposites: "classicism" and "romanticism," if 
one wishes to call them that. They also com-
bined the new continuity of space with weight 
and permanence of ma,ss: archetypes of move-
ment and stability synthesized. In all these 
ways they may be felt to have summed up the 
main conflicting aspects of modern, and 
peculiarly American, middle-class aspiration: 
to be fn.:e and protectttl at once. In the same 
sense they were both urban and suburban, 
place-fixing masses adjusted to expanding sub-
urban patterns along the commuting railroad 
lines. 

E
haps the most important aspect of 
Scully's recent thinking is his ability to 
reach beyond architectural history or even 
criticism of the physical landscape. He has 
begun to see the problems of art school-
trained architects trying to work as "social 
engineers," trying to alter both the land-
scape and the patterns of our culture. He 
vividly depicts their battles with lawyers, 
civil administrators and politicians "full 
of lies and dodges, with hearts like small 
stones." Though Scully understands that 
this is an unhappy confrontation, a con-
frontafion that is fundamentally wrong 
and that "clearly has to be reconsidered 
in terms of who does what for whom and 
who controls it," he never suggests that the 
architectural profession (now with its 
own "urban design"bureaucrats) has found 
a way to resolve this situation. 

If American Architecture and Urbanism 
were simply the summation of Vincent 
Scully's thinking to date, it would be an 
important book. It is more. It is a shatter-
ingly new approach to architectural histo-
riography. In many ways it reminds me of 
Stravinsky's Le Sacre du Printemps. Where 
Stravinsky's work is rooted in the art of 
Rimsky-Korsakov, Borodin and Pushkin, 
Scully's grows from the work of Meeks, 
Mumford and D. H. Lawrence. Rimsky-
Korsakov's Le Coq d'Or is larded with 
satire. So it is not surprising that Stravinsky 
could describe the opening of his revolu-
tionary work as "a group of knock-kneed 
and long-braided Lolitas jumping up and 
down." Borodin's Polovtsian Dances get 
violent. Stravinsky has described the open-
ing of Le Sacre as a "frightful tumult." 
American Architecture and Urbanism in-
cludes the same combination of violence 
and satire. New Haven's Lee High School 
js seen as "a pillbox at the edge of the Hill," 
Yales's new Becton Engineering Labora-
tory as "a huge radio cabinet," Saarinen's 
girls' dormitory at the University of Penn-
sylvania as the "Chateau d'If outside, 
Blanche DeBois within," and the attempts 
at the monumentalization of Pennsylvania 
Avenue in Washington as "the garbled 
experiences of American architects as tour-
ists abroad." Like Le Sacre, this book is 
deeply poetic. The houses on the New 
Haven Green are "ships moored around" a 
central open space, Sullivan's Guaranty 
Building is a "vertical body standing on 
legs stretched and swelling with muscular 
force," buildings on the coasts of Massa-
chusetts and Maine are "weathered silver, 
floating like dreams of forever in the cool 
fogs of the sea." When the poetry and the 
satire come together we are made to see the 
Empire State Building as "a lonely dino-
saur" that "rose sadly at mid-town, highest 
tower, tallest mountain, longest road, King 
Kong's eyrie, meant to moor air ships, 
alas." These images are tightly condensed 
evocations of Scully's lectures. In a few 
words-describing the "darkly glowing 
squares of Froebel-decorated amber sky-
lights" in Wright's Unity Temple or the 
"canvas-covered Conestoga wagon" that is 
his Taliesen West-this book calls to mind 
those marvelously impassioned torrents of 
words and slides that made up Scully's 
lectures on these buildings. 

is no more a tr~ ditional work than was Le 
Sacre du Printemps. There are no chaplets, 
no section captions, no footnotes, just one 
continuous flow of images. The photo-
graphs are even repeated so the stream of 
consciousness does not have to be inter-
rupted by flipping back to earlier illustra-
tions. The pages of this book come together 
as Vincent Scully's invitations to a country. 
Like the American landscape, this work is 
a never ending stream of development. 
What could be more fitting for a study of 
"urbanism"? ~ 

Alexander Garvin, Architect-Planner of 
the Coalition Redevelopment Program for 
the New York Urban Coalition, is also a 
Visiting Assistant Professor of City Plan-
ning at Yale. Mr. Garvin also serves as an 
associate designer with the New Haven 
architectural firm of Roy and Millard. 



**Title: If you live on 14th St., you know Elsie. Or Elsie. Or Elsie.**
**Author: David Freeman**
**Page number(s): 4-6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
If you live on 14th St., you know Elsie. Or Elsie. Or Elsie. 
by David Freeman 
When the winter smog hangs a little 
heavier and the paper flowers begin to 
blossom and the sounds of Spanish Christ-
mas carols fill the 3rd Avenue station on 
the Canarsie line, shopkeepers in the East 
Village and along 14th Street know that 
Christmas is coming and that Elsie, the 
14th Street swatter and dog lady, will be in 
bloom again. 

Christmas is the busy season for that 
sweet perennial scrawny lady with orange 
yarn hair and arms covered with tattoos, 
who spends her days leading her pack of 
dogs up and down the east end of 14th 
street, foraging through the rubbish piles 
and garbage cans, saying Elsie is her only 
name, "Elsie, just Elsie ... Elsie." 

Her dogs, she has three regulars and 
occasionally one or two temporary strays, 
are called Elsie, Elsie and Brownie. Why 
Brownie, a splendid if slightly ragged Irish 
setter, did not get in on the Elsies is a ques-
tion that Elsie (the lady) does not answer. 

The canine Elsies are mongrels of the 
common street variety, and all three 
are as skinny as their mistress and usually 
a good deal dirtier. 

Elsie and her dogs, like a French peasant 
and her hounds hunting for truffles, root 
through the side streets and doorways, 
foraging, but never taking anything. She 
just keeps turning over strange bits of cloth 
and half broken objects murmuring, "Now 
what the hell is this? What do we got 
here ... ?" searching for some private and 
probably half forgotten secret in the gar-
bage cans. 

Even if Elsie tends to leave trash alone, 
she does take bizarre liberties with pas-
sersby. She always carries a rolled-up 
newspaper under her arm which she uses 
as a club to swat strangers on the backside 
as they pass. The swat is no gentle tap but 
rather a sadistic smack, clearly meant to 
punish her victim. Happily for those who 
travel 14th Street regularly, Elsie only 
swats occasionally. Usually her targets are 
so stunned at the idea of being clobbered 
from behind that they respond in the best 
Manhattan tradition, and pretend it didn't 
happen and move away from the trouble as 
quickly as possible. 

One victim of an Elsie swat, a ruddy-
faced salesman in an ill-fitting tweed car-
coat, pushing a suitcase, on wheels, deco-
rated with a sleazy green wreath, did 
complain after Elsie whacked him. The 
salesman turned and yelled at Elsie, who 
always keeps walking as she swats, never 
breaking her stride. 

"Hey you! You bit me?" No answer 
from Elsie, and the salesman dragging his 
suitcasa chases her and grabs her arm. 
"Lego the arm," Elsie says softly. 
"You hit me? Why'd you bit me?" Elsie 
says nothing; the dogs relax on the pave-
ment in front of the Orange Julius at 14th 
and 3rd to watch impassively. 

Elsie yells in a rough staccato startling 
the salesman. "Hit you? You crazy or 
something? Just lego the arm." 

"Well somebody hit me. With a paper. 
You got a paper." 

"You're crazy. Ask anybody." Elsie 
turns to the crowd beginning to gather and 
to the patrons of the Orange Julius who 
David Freeman is a Contributing Editor 
of The New Journal. His writing has ap-
peared in many national publications, and 
his new play, Captain Smightln Hi~ Glory, 
will be produced this month by the Theater 
Company of Boston. 
stare indifferently, their faces distorted and 
elongated by the glass walls. 

"Did I hit him?" Elsie screams to her 
audience. "Did I? Did I? Did I?" The 
salesman senses the incident getting out 
of control. He mutters an ominous "Well 
somebody hit me," turns his suitcase sharp-
ly and heads back down 14th Street. Elsie 
wakes up Brownie and glides victoriously 
across the street to rummage through the 
cardboard boxes in front of the United 
Cigar Store. 

Elsie usually seems uncaring in her 
choice of victims, however, she occasion-
ally seems to be reacting to injustices or to 
some of the grossness that abounds in 
New York streets. One morning about 
nine Elsie, caressing a box of trash in front 
of Blimpies at 14th and 1st, looks up long 
enough to see two middle-aged women in 
long black coats. One is carrying a shop-
ping bag marked "Christmas greetings 
from John's Bargain Store," and the other 
is tugging at her ear. Both are jabbering 
at the top of their lungs. As she passes 
Blimpies, Ear tugger accidentally steps on 
Brownie's paw, and Brownie gives an 
uncharacteristic yelp. The woman either 
doesn't hear or chooses to ignore the dog. 
Elsie drops the roll of slightly soiled brown 
wrapping paper she has been fingering and 
follows the women across 14th Street. 

"He took a bum rap for her," from 
Shopping bag. 

"Yeah, I know," from Ear tugger. 

"On his own the dumb sonofabitch took 
a bum rap." 

"Yeah." 

"I'll kill the shmuck. He took a bum 
rap." 

As Shopping bag steps up on the east 
curb, Elsie pulls back a two week old 
rolled-up copy of the Times and swats each 
woman on the rear twice. Ear tugger turns 
around sharply ready {or battle, but Elsie 
treats her to the punch with another quick 
swat, a rare frontal assault. Brownie barks 
again. Ear tugger screams "muggers," and 
the two women disappear into the BMT 
stop at 14th and 1st. Elsie watches them 
go, smiling quietly, privately, and then 
marches away forgetting about Blimpies 
and the roll of wrapping paper. 

Elsie always dresses the same way, just 
more or Jess of it, depending on the season. 
At the moment her year-round black 
woolen stockings are pulled down over her 
swollen ankles onto the tops of torn 
blue tennis shoes. Her red cloth skirt and 
blouse are dotted with dabs of brightly 
colored paint and the pink moth-eaten 
cardigan sweater that is always with h~r is, 
for winter, wrapped elegantly across her 
back. The khaki knapsack she carries for 
the swag she never collects is slung over her 
shoulder like a purse. Elsie wears glasses 
with round plastic frames that sit easily on 
a slender red nose that is usually runny and 
decorated with cold sores. 

In warmer weather one can see Elsie's 
arms, and they are her outstanding feature. 
Each one is decorated with lush purple 
tattoos. On the left forearm there's a ven-
omous snake coiled around a long dagger 
dripping three perfectly shaped drops of 
blood. Her right forearm has a large dog's 
head-a purple Cocker Spaniel, with its 
tongue hanging out and a friendly looking 
eye. Below the dog there's a series of twist-
ing, intertwined almost psychedelic pat-
terns of purple ribbons winding down onto 
the back of a hairy hand. 

When Elsie wanders south of 14th Street 
into what's left of the hippie district, she 
pretends to ignore the crowds of kids on 
2nd Avenue between Gems Spa and The 
Fillmore-but the kids rarely ignore her. A 
few of the hippies have seen the Marx 
Brothers in "At The Circus," and when 
Elsie approaches they serenade her with a 
chorus from Groucho's famous song: 
Lydia, oh Lydia-
that encyclopedia, 
Lydia the tattooed lady. 
Oh say have you seen Lydia? 
Lydia's the queen of them all. 

E lsie enjoys the singing and the attention, 
and the hippies love to harmonize like 
a barber shop quartet. For a while a few 
months ago it looked as if Elsie might set a 
new style among the hippies. They talked 
about getting tattoos for themselves, but 
the plan fell through when nobody could 
find a tattoo parlor. Now they seem content 
to sing occasionally "Lydia the Tattooed 
Lady" to Elsie and to wave after her as she 
roots her way up to 14th Street. 

If some of the hippies have been watch-
ing G roucho, at least one of them has a 
more literary bent, and has read e.e. cum-
mings. The boy, a tall slender effeminate 
Negro in Levis and a denim vest that he 
wears over his bare chest, stops Elsie as she 
inspects two large cardboard barrels in 
front of Ratner's Dairy Restaurant, to give 
his version of cummings' "my father 
moved through dooms of love." He lisps 
his poetic riff in a soft girlish voice: 
sweet elsie moved through dunes of trash 
through stains of paint through halves of 
cloth 
deathing each morning into each night 
my elsie moved through dogs of fright 

Elsie looks at the boy warmly and touches 
his arm. He smiles, kisses her on the cheek 
and offers a flower from his hat, but the 
gift frightens her, and she moves away 
quickly. The boy blows her a kiss as Elsie 
heads south to Houston Street, and home. 

The farthest west Elsie ever gets is 
Union Square. She works her way up 2nd 
Avenue, goes across 14th to Klein's then 
back down the other side to Avenue C, 
down to Houston and across to the Bowery 
and home. 

Home for Elsie and her dogs is what's 
left of an old brick yard at the lower end 
of The Bowery, where there used to be a 
great many old-fashioned brick kilns-
large red brick domes with earthen floors 
and open hearths in which an earlier 
generation of craftsmen made the bricks 
and slabs of brown stone that built New 
York. The brick domes, like the artisans 
who worked them, are mostly gone now, 
but one--<>r most of one- remains, 
hidden behind a Bowery bar and flop-
house, and Elsie calls it home. 

The dome, which is about fifteen feet at 
its highest point and about twenty feet 
in diameter, is by New York apartment 
standards rather spacious. Elsie has run 
electricity from the hotel to her home with 
a Rube Goldberg patchwork of extension 
cords, zip cord and black electrician's 
tape running down the hearth's chimney 
and into Elsie's quarters. The cord gives 
life to an old fashioned floor lamp with a 
broken Tiffany shade, that despite its 
damage would probably bring several hun-
dred dollars in an uptown antique shop. 

Elsie also has a hot plate and a splendid 
looking pink electric blanket with silk 
binding and dual controls as well as a 
space heater. The blanket, Elsie's most 
valued possession-she's indifferent to 
the rest-is spread casually across an ob-
.... 
.. 
• 
... 


--- Page 5 ---

0 
. 
51 The New Journal I December 14, 1969 
cenely filthy mattress which in turn rests 
on slabs of cardboard. The door to Elsie's 
oven is a tiny arched opening in the bricks 
-tiny in order to keep heat in, during 
the dome's more productive days. Now 
the opening is just the right size for the 
dogs, but Elsie has to crawl through on her 
knees. She keeps a pail of water near the 
hot plates; the dome of course, has no 
running water. At night she covers the 
doorway with a wooden crate marked 
"Dried Norwegian Codfish: Heavily 
Salted." By day the crate is a bedside table. 

Inside her dome in addition to her 
furniture, Elsie has her "piles," mounds 
of carefully selected and arranged scraps 
of cloth, bits of plastic, and tin foil and 
string-souvenirs from days when she 
did more than just pick through the rub-
bish. The order of the piles is very private 
and very distinct, and Elsie has obviously 
spent a lot of time keeping things straight. 

There are no apparent signs of Elsie's 
past life among her possessions and the 
only decorations in the dome are two pic-
tures torn from magazines, one of Marlon 
Brando in "The Wild One" and the other 
of Pope John XXIII celebrating mass at 
St. Peter's. 

Elsie is unclear as to how long she bas 
lived in the oven, but she cannot or will 
not recall living anywhere else. The dogs, 
Elsie, Elsie and Brownie, live in the dome 
too. "Brownie, he sleeps with me all the 
time" Elsie says, "the other ones, Elsie 
and the other Elsie, just in the winter time. 
This time of year sometimes they sleep 
here; sometimes they don't." 

Elsie seems to have worked out an ar-
rangement with the flophouse that shields 
her from the prying eyes of The Bow-
ery and allows for the use of the hotel's 
bathroom facilities. The hotel's manager, 
a gentleman not given to casual chats, 
seemed to think that the oven, like Elsie 
and her dogs, had always been there. 

Elsie sometimes picks up spare change pan-
handling outside the Variety Photo Plays 
on 3rd Avenue near 14th Street. With her 
dogs asleep on the pavement, Elsie stands 
beneath the marquee and politely mumbles 
to passersby soliciting "extra money." 

She keeps her rolled-up newspaper handy 
while she's panhandling, and when the 
mood is upon her, Elsie swats her bene-
factors, black or white, rich or poor, 
whether or not they've given her money. 

Once in a while she goes into the Variety 
Photo Plays, in the morning admission is 
forty five cents. On movie days, Elsie ties 
Elsie, Elsie and Brownie to a parking 
meter in front of the theatre and goes in 
to watch the double feature. She usually 
stays only an hour or so; then, concerned 
with her brood, or perhaps bored with 
Hollywood, she leaves and heads back to 
14th Street. 

For all her unusual habits and style, Elsie 
seems reasonably content with her life-
or at least it hasn't occurred to her to 
question it. Perhaps the strangest thing 
about her is that although she doesn't 
say it, one gets the impression that Elsie 
assumes everyone lives the way she does. 
Like all of us, she manages to find simple 
pleasures in her daily routine, and like all 
of us, she has her share of routine dis-
appointments. 

One of her greatest joys is playing with 
the small girls who skip rope on the side-
walks year round. The girls chant the 
same verses that girls have chanted for 
generations, adding only their Spanish 
accents. And Elsie loves to tie Elsie, Elsie 


--- Page 6 ---

**Title: Searching for consciousness at Esalen: "After spending thousands educating our heads, this was the least we could do for our bodies."**
**Author: Alton Wasson and Roz Driscoll**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
":>
· 
Searching for consciousness at Esalen: "After spending thousands 
educating our heads, this was the least we could do for our bodies." 
by Alton Wasson and Roz Driscoll 
In its official language, Esalen Institute "is 
a center to explore those trends in the 
behavioral sciences, religion and philoso-
phy which emphasize the potentialities and 
values of human existence. Its activities 
consist of seminars and workshops, re-
search and consulting programs, and a 
resident program exploring new directions 
in education and the behavioral sciences." 
Looking through the catalogue one finds 
such courses as "Authenticity Revisited: a 
workshop for the overgrouped," "Mores, 
Mysticism and Madness," "Ma.ssage and 
Meditation," "The Open Couple," and 
"Dreams, ESP and Altered States of Con-
sciousness." The Esalen experience is, 
however, more than just what the cata-
logue describes: it begins months before 
one actually arrives at the Institute, is 
altered by what one finds there, and con-
tinues long afterwards, growing, shifting or 
changing along with the individual. The 
following is the first-person account by 
Alton Wasson and Roz Driscoll, two mem-
bers of the Yale community who recently 
spent a week at the Institute in Big Sur, 
California. 

Before arriving, our visions of Esalen 
Institute were fabricated of hard-to- be-
lieve stories and vaguely Utopian de-
scriptions. We knew from our reading that 
there were peopfe there involved in verbal 
and nonverbal encounter, the "letting go" 
movement, educational innovation and 
Maslow's theory of human potential. We 
were nervous about the rumors of nudity, 
physical contact and mind-shattering 
encounter, frightened of being touched, 
physically and emotionally, by strangers. 
We both were wiJiing to take the risk, 
however, on the assumption that what one 
is most frightened of may be just what one 
needs. And, of course, we were curious. 
We signed up for a week-long workshop in 
body awareness which cost us $260 each. 
After spending many thousands educating 
our beads, this was the least we could do 
for our bodies. 

To reach Esalen from San Francisco, we 
drove down the coastal highway which 
hung on the edge of the land between the 
mountains and the sea. Each bend in the 
road revealed another awe-inspiring vista. 
This grandeur shook us out of our ordinary 
sensations and intensified the feelings of 
trepidation and anticipation. After several 
hours, we arrived at "Esalen Institute, By 
Reservation Only." We drove down into a 
casual scattering of low buildings and 
assorted trailers. A lovely woman playing 
with a baby sat behind the desk where we 
registered. Our rooms were plain but for a 
tiny vase of fresh flowers, a candle and 
some incense. A few people strolled about 
or sat quietly on the thick lawn in front of 
the lodge. We soon sensed that the am-
bience was far more informal and gentle 
than we had anticipated. No one rushed up 
to greet us or to take us in. We were left 
on our own most of the time. Our first 
meeting that evening (and most subsequent 
Alton Wasson, '67 B .D., is a chaplain at 
Yale serving as Chairman of the Yale 
Religious Ministry and special consultant 
to Dwight Hall. He is also studying part-
time in a Master of Sacred Theology 
program. 
Roz Driscoll, Smith '67, is now a student 
at Silver mine College of Art after two 
years as the Research Assistant in the 
Oriental Department of the Yale Art 
Gallery. 
meetings) was held in "Maslow," a red-
wood-panelled room containing no fur-
niture except for a thick, red, wall-to-wall 
carpet. You removed your shoes before 
entering. There were about twenty people 
in our group, of all ages and from all over 
the country: a few·psychologists, a few 
students, a secretary, a technician, some 
older women, an ex-minister and several 
people we never really knew at all. The 
leader, Ed Maupin, who wore a long, black 
beard sprinkled with gray was very re-
laxed; and appeared very gentle. He began 
by asking us what we had come to learn, 
and then explained that we would be inves-
tigating the presence of our bodies: the 
feeling the body has in relation to the 
sensual world, and the relation of part to 
part, in an effort to integrate the whole 
body into one's self-awareness. He would 
lead us in daily exercises in the morning, 
give us each two individual sessions of the 
Rolf process, and in the afternoon, others, 
including his wife, would teach us move-
ment and Tai Chi Chuan. The usual Esalen 
extras were bot mineral baths and massage. 

One of the rumors about Esalen revolved 
around the hot mineral baths, the "nude 
baths." We found them to be innocent and 
pleasant, (especially in relation to our fears 
and fantasies) and even liberating in a 
subtle, unobstrusive way. After the first 
moment of embarrassment, it felt natural 
and normal. Men and women could soak 
in the big square tubs always fiJled with hot 
mineral waters, or peacefully sun on the 
deck, looking out over the Pacific, the surf 
crashing and the sea otters playing below. 
At night the only light was from candles 
and the moon. 

Alton 
Having participated in several T-groups, 
I felt that as a chaplain, I needed some 
training in non-verbal encounter groups, 
which I thought were central to the Esaleo 
experience. The workshop leaders and 
staff, however, did not resort to facile 
openness in getting to know us, and the 
slow pace of working in the seminar and of 
just moving and breathing was not what I 
had expected. Where were the encounters? 
I soon found them among the others in our 
seminar who had come with similar ex-
pectations. It became clear that Ed was not 
interested in leading an encounter group, 
so we met once without him. The attempt 
was abortive, and I finally accepted the fact 
that I was there to Jearn about relating to 
myself, and even more, I was to learn to 
relate to myself as a body. 

Roz 
On the other hand, I was delighted to 
discover that there would be no encounter 
activity, but I joined the spontaneous group 
attempt out of some sense of duty to the


--- Page 8 ---

**Title: It isn't tliateasy to leave Vietnam**
**Author: William Stott**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
It isn't tliateasy to leave Vietnam 
by William Stott 
When President Brewster spoke the sen-
tence at the Moratorium Rally, I thought 
I hadn't heard right. The next day, though, 
the newspapers published it in all its 
oddity: 
Let us admit that it is not easy to abandon 
the anonymous masses of South Vietnamese 
who have relied upon us. 

I don't know what Mr. Brewster meant 
this sentence to mean in the context of his 
appeal for a disengagement from the war. 
I assume he didn't want it to say what it 
said: that we should abandon those who 
rely on us while comforting ourselves with 
the assurance that it's not easy for us to 
behave so despicably. But if he did mean 
this, I think I agree with him. 

Without question, if we pull out of 
South Vietnam now, a lot of people who 
count on us are going to suffer. Who they 
are, how many they are and what will 
happen to them are matters no one I know 
has much discussed. Before we kill them 
off, maybe we should. 

First, we must dispell the agreeable 
leftist illusion that the only people who 
will suffer when the Americans withdraw 
are those who deserve to: the great land 
owners and the military leaders. No doubt 
these people, as a class, should suffer; but 
it is precisely they who won't. When South 
Vietnam falls, the rich land owners and 
the top echelon military will be far away. 

Already their capital, their heirlooms, 
their sons and daughters, often their wives 
and retainers, too, have preceded them 
into exile. You find them in Bangkok and 
in the South of France. Their sons are 
learning skills-medicine, architecture, 
commerc<!-that they won't have to own a 
country to exercise. 

The people who will suffer when we 
pull out are hard to name. They are not 
the five percent who are upper class: the 
rich, as I say, emigrate. They are not the 
seventy percent who are landless peas-
ants: the poor st~y and suffer, and will con-
tinue to suffer, with or without us, until the 
Vietnamese economy is modernized. The 
people who will suffer as a consequence 
of our withdrawal are those who remain. 

Who are they,this remaining anony-
mous quarter of the country? A social sci-
entist might describe them as the middle 
class. A large percentage are, ironically, 
North Vietnamese-people who took 
refuge in the South because they didn't 
want to live under Ho Chi Minh's regime 
or feared that if they tried to they would 
be killed as were hundreds of thousands 
who stayed behind. 

In thinking of the war, we continually 
overlook this "middle" class of between 
three and four million people; to us, as 
President Brewster says, they are "anony-
mous." We should have noticed them long 
ago, because their welfare was the only 
moral justification on which to build a 
policy toward the South Vietnamese. They 
are the people willing to see the society 
change and able to make it do so: the 
trained workers, the small professional and 
business men, the teachers and the minor 
government officials. The final failure of 
our Vietnam policy-which, contrary to 
its intention, has proved: that outside help, 
however generous, cannot stop "wars of 
national liberation"; that the Domino 
Theory will hold true if the other side is 
able to mount such wars; that the United 
States will never again live up to its com-
mitment to intervene on behalf of an 
attacked ally unless that ally fully controls 
its own people-the final failure of our 
policy will be to be destroy those Viet-
namese whose welfare should have been 
our major concern. 

"Destroy"-is this too strong a word? I 
hope so. But no one can say. Joseph Alsop 
predicts that our withdrawal will bring on 
the murder of 1,500,000 people. Mary 
McCarthy, at the other end of the political 
spectrum, says that only 10,000 risk being 
killed and suggests that the U.S. relocate 
them. Of the two, I'm afraid that Alsop 
may be closer to the truth. I say this be-
cause I had the misfortune to meet the 
villain of another war-a war the radicals, 
at home and abroad, have always equated 
with our war in Vietnam. 

When I met Fran~ois in the summer of 
1966, he was a tall, corpulent young man 
of twenty-five with thickly pomaded fair 
hair combed straight back in the Spanish 
fashion; his cheeks were immense and 
beardless as a baby's and his eyes no 
bigger than raisins. He came to see me in 
the American Cultural Center I ran in 
Fez, Morocco, because he considered 
immigrating to the United States. 

He was a Frenchman, but a French-
mao born and raised in Algeria. After the 
revolution he found, as did many Alger-
ian-born French, that he couldn't stom-
ach the discrimination in France. As for 
Algeria, living there was out of the ques-
tion, he said. And without any prompting, 
he told me why. 

Fran~ois had been in the O.A.S., the 
brutal cabal in the French army which 
opposed De Gaulle's belated attempt to 
give independence to the Algerians. On 
and off for five years, three of them after 
the Algerian war. Fran~ois had served as 
courier for Jacques Soustelle, an O.A.S. 
chief. He had given interviews in Sous-
telle's name; he remembered that in 
Copenhagen during the early sixties he 
gave one to Joseph Alsop. 

His main work during the war, how-
ever, bad been for the French army. Be-
cause he spoke Arabic andknew the 
country, he was a military liaison between 
the Algerian population in a certain 
province and the French government. It 
was his job to persuade influential Al-
gerians that the French were there to stay 
and would protect them. 

Fran~ois then went on to make a point 
that surprised me. He insisted that it was 
not the French that were most cruel to the 
innocent anonymous mass of the Al-
gerians, but the rebels themselves. "Every-
one knows that the N.L.F. used terrorism," 
he said. "But no one seems to remember 
that they used it mainly against their 
people." I said that probably the N.L.F. 
felt it had to punish those who collabo-
rated with the French. "I'm not speaking 
of the collaborators," he said. "Of course 
they killed traitors; that's war. I mean 
plain people. They weren't strong enough 
to take on the French, so they pushed 
around Arabs." As he explained it, the 
N.L.F.'s chief goal was to discredit French 
ability to protect Algerians, particularly in 
rural areas. "As soon as the Algerians knew 
that we couldn't defend them, they would 
go over to the rebels." To show France's 
weakness, terrorists would strike at ran-
dom against Algerians who didn't support 
their cause. Villages refusing to pay 
tribute were located and blown up, their 
leaders killed. 

As Fran~ois' district was a calm one, 
he could argue persuasively that the Al-
gerian people were safe with France. 
Indeed, so persuasive was he, he claimed, 
that a majority of the people and nearly 
• all the leaders remained loyal to France. 
He swore-as have all Algerian-born 
Frenchmen I've known-that even at the 
end a majority of the Algerian people 
wanted to stay with France. They weren't 
able to, he said, because De Gaulle chealed 
them. In the 1962 plebiscite in which the 
Algerians voted an overwhelming oui 
to France's offer of autonomy, the non 
ballots were purple-a color no devout 
Muslim will touch. But the vote really 
didn't matter, said Fran~ois: before there-
sults were counted, Paris announced that 
Algeria had chosen independence. I didn't 
know what to make of this story: it seemed 
all cockeyed. 

He then said something though that 
struck me as plausible. "What did most 
of the Algerians want? Simple. A little 
peace, that's all." He put his head back 
and touched his fat chin with two fingers, 
looking at me out of the corner of his eye. 
He said, experimentally, as though curious 
of my reaction, "I am responsible for the 
death of I 0,000 people." I only stared at 
him and said nothing. I knew immediately 
that he had told me his past just to tell me 
that, but even knowing this didn't help·me 
find words. It was an unusual accomplish-
ment for a man of twenty-five to feel he 
had so much blood on his head; Fran~ois 
didn't like it. He shifted his weight in the 
chair. He had told the Algerians of his 
district that France would defend them. 
When France pulled out, an uncountable 
number had been killed. He called it 
I 0,000. Surely it was much less. 

"Collaborators?" I asked hopefully. 
"Collaborators? Like fun. If we'd had 
10.000 collaborators. the war wouldn't 
have taken place." He said that the first 
to be killed were the leaders whom he'd 
persuaded of France's constancy. They 
were by no means the last. Algerians who 
were clerks or skilled workers in French 
establishments, or mechanized laborers 
on French farms; Algerians who spoke 
French too well or had too much educa-
tion for their village; and finally Algerians 
who had money or a nice house or a motor 
scooter or a bicycle were killed. "You've 
got to understand," said Fran~ois, "the 
rebels had nothing-but nothing. Only, 
they had weapons." 

And this wa.~ the last revelation he 
brought me. Today Fran~ois lives, I pre-
sume, in Canada. He had no relatives in 
the United States who woull;l sponsor him 
and none of the skills our immigration 
Jaws favor. Canada, as I told him, has 
more liberal standards, and particularly 
seeks French speat<ers. Fran~ois would 
have preferred to be an American, he said. 
He liked our combat in Vietnam. 

In subsequent conversation with people 
who had known the Algerian revolution, 
I tried to find out whether what Fran~is 
said was anything like the truth. Those I 
spoke with and the books I read agreed on 
one point: the N.L.F. had killed many 
more Algerians than French. The excuse 
usually offered- two very liberal United 
Nations officials from the third world 
countrie, gave it to me, each shaking his 
head- was that those murdered belonged 
to "opposition groups" that is, groups 
wanting independence of both France and 
the N .L.F. This is a half-truth at best. An 
American woman who worked from 1959 
to 1963 in a Quaker-sponsored camp for 
Algerian refugees in Morocco, said that 
while most of the peasants had been dis-
placed during the French army's relocating 
of their villages, a large number had fled 
the N.L.F.'s violence. 

On other matters it was more difficult to 
find a consensus. There are widely con-
flicting eo;timates of how many Algerians 
were killed in the revolution. The only 
reporter who discusses the killing of 
Algerians by Algerians, Arslan Hum-
baraci, a strong supporter of the indepen-
dence movement, puts the figure at nearly 
1 ,000,000. The observers with whom I 
discussed this issue agreed that.a very 
large number of Algerians were killed in 
the year after independence and only a 
small percentage of them by O.A.S. terror-
ism. 

1 suggested to a French diplomat of 
liberal views that most of the bloodshed 
after the French withdrawal resulted from 
virtual civil war between rebel groups 
and, within the N.L.F., between partisans 
of Ben Youssef Ben Khedda and Ahmed 
Ben Bella. He disagreed. 'They fought for 
control of the country, yes. But then they 
fought for everything." According to him, 
when the French gave up the war, there 
ceased to be a force in Algeria to police 
the rebels. "The rebels themselves couldn't 
do it; they were too fragmented. So what 
did you have? You had bands of guer-
rillas, a few men in each, who knew 
nothing but destruction and who felt ttiey 
had made-as was true-a great sacrifice 
for their country. But they come into a 
village or town, and what do they see? 


--- Page 11 ---

Men, Arabs, who haven't carried weapons, 
haven't risked their lives for freedom, and 
who yet own something more than just a 
rifle." He argued that many rebels simply 
took whatever they wanted, even if they 
had to kill to get it, because they felt it 
was owed to them. "You must remember 
these men hadn't gotten high wages for 
their war." 

Asked how many Algerian civilians died 
after the French pulled out, the diplomat 
said. in a tone of disgust at my innocence, 
"Ah, rat Des choses com me ra n.e se 
comptent pas." ("Things like that can't 
be counted.") 

When we withdraw from Vietnam and the 
Saigon regime falls, the guerrillas of the 
VietCong will come from the countryside 
to claim the wages of their victory. And 
who will stop them? Not the South Viet-
namese army; with it~ leaders flown, its 
provisions and salary stopped. it may turn 
out to be as de~tructive of the nation as 
its adversary. North Vietnam's army in 
the South will also, one assumes, join the 
plundering. The people that will pay these 
armies are. the Algerian war suggests, 
those who are still there and have any-
thing to lose. Those who will die are those 
whom the VietCong have been killing all 
along: teachers, tradesmen, salaried work-
ers, doctors and lawyers, minor govern-
ment officials. 

If we were to remain in South Vietnam, 
could we protect this middle class? Only if 
we stayed indefinitely. I think. The longer 
the war, the more bitter will be the reckon-
ing when we pull out and leave tbe field to 
the guerrillas. For it must be clear now to 
all rational observers that either we fight 
for years to come or we leave the field to 
them. President Nixon knows this. The 
"Vietnamization'' he promises is a decep-
tion, though just whom he wants it to 
deceive is not year clear. Richard Rovere 
feels "Vietnamization" will prove the code 
word for unilateral withdrawal, a selling-
out of those who rely on us. My fear is 
that the President means the word to trick 
not Vietnamese but Americans. His No-
vember 3rd speech makes "Vietnamiza-
tion" the excuse for Jetting the war go on 
as is, with our soldiers dying for no good 
reason. In essence Nixon said: "We want 
nothing more than to turn the war over to 
the South Vietnamese, and when the 
enemy stops fighting enough, we'll do it." 
{}ut the enemy won't stop. And if 60,000 
American soldiers is the most the Sooth 
Vietnamese can replace at this late date, we 
can't expect them to take over the burden 
of the war for years to come. And our 
people won't wait years. 

Sooner or later, pressure at home will 
force a President of the United States to 
pull our troo~ out of Vietnam. Sooner or 
later, the VietCong will win. They know 
it. and because they do, it is probably too 
late to appease them. A coalition govern-
ment including the N.L.F., even if such a 
compromise is attainable, would by no 
means bring the Viet Gong UndCT co:ntr·oJ: 

In Algeria, theN .L.F. guided rebel troops 
in battle, yet couldn't police them when 
victory came. In Vietnam the N.L.F. are 
politicians, not soldiers; they don't lead 
the rebels in war and won't in peace. 

Besides, as far as we know, the N.L.F. 
leaders, though middle class, prefer an-
archy to the old order. The Viet Cong are 
out to undo the society; it has a debt to 
them, they feel, and they have the means 
to make it pay. The N.L.F. couldn't stop 
them and probably wouldn't want to. 

How many people will be killed when 
we finally leave Vietnam? I have no idea: 
des choses comme fa n.e se comptent pas. 
Many Vietnamese who relied on us will 
be destroyed, but if this is the price of get-
ting us out of the war, I'm ready for them 
to pay it. And I'm ashamed to say, I'm 
confident our souls won't be much troubled 
at their suffering. In the last five years, 
there have been several episodes of unac-
countable civilian murder. First the Al-
gerian war. Then the Vietnamese war. 
Then 500,000 Indonesians killed in the 
name of anti-communism. Then I ,500,000 
Biafrans. Only about the last of these 
have we Americans shown a slight concern, 
and of course the Biafrans are black, and 
blacks just now are at the center of our 
thinking. We will overlook the destruction 
of South Vietnam's anonymous masses, I 
feel sure, as we've overlooked such things 
before. Perhaps, as Mr. Brewster says, it 
will not be easy: this time the blood will be 
on our heads. But we Americans can do it, 
if only we put our minds to it. ~ 
William Stott, a gradiUlte student In 
American Studies, has worked in Africa 
for the United States Information Agency.


**Title: The Five-Year B.A. may take you to lands away and be-yond but when it's all over, you have to come back to Yale.**
**Author: Richard Conniff**
**Page number(s): 12**

The Five-Year B.A. may take you to lands away and be-
yond but when it's all over, you have to come back to Yale. 
by Richard Conniff 
Kingman Brewster glanced at the pile of 
uneaten french fries on his plate like a 
wishful but self-restrained weight-watcher. 
He pushed back his chair and inconspicu-
ously began twiddling with a book of 
matches. The student sitting to the Presi-
dent's left gulped down his second cup of 
coffee and said, "Well, it seems as if we 
agree on the necessity of reform. Hope-
fully, we can work together to convince the 
Course of Study Committee to adopt the 
proposals. You can work from the top and 
we'll work from the bottom." 

Brewster chuckled and said, "You mean 
you want to squash them from both sides." 

Five-Year B.A. Program Director William 
Foltz laughed nervously from the corner. 
To discuss changing Yale's academic 
structure with Kingman Brewster while 
lunc,hing at a place like Mory's seems 
almost as awkward as talking to Tricia 
Nixon about Women's Liberation while 
touring the White House. Yet last Thurs-
day, eleven returning participants in the 
Five-Year B.A. Program lunched with 
President Brewster at Mory's to discuss 
such change. Conversation centered 
around a set of proposals previously sub-
mitted to Brewster by the "Fivers" aimed 
at changing the academic structure of the 
university. Sipping an Old Fashioned, 
Brewster listened as the Fivers explained 
that their proposals grew out of a dissatis-
faction with the insulated academic en-
vironment they encountered upon their 
return to Yale. 

Brewster sympathized with the desire of 
the Fivers to introduce greater flexibility 
and broad inter-disciplinary approaches 
into the academic framework. But here-
luctantly admitted, "I haven't really read 
the proposals yet ... the first thing I'll 
have to do is look them over." 

"Right on," a Fiver muttered sar-
castically. 

The chaos of the Sixties will collapse be-
hind us in less than a month. It could have 
been a decade echoing the calm and com-
placent 1-lik.e-lke years which preceded it; 
instead, it exploded. This decade has been 
a time for change, a time for hatcheting 
outdated standards and innovating with 
untested substitutes. By the mid-Sixties, 
even Kingman Brewster had raised the 
axe over a traditional American concept 
of education. It was in the Spring of 1965 
that he asked Yale College to join the in-
novation by examining the worth of its own 
foundation: the unalterable four-year col-
lege career. As an alternative to it, Brew-
ster created the Yale Experimental Five-
Year B.A. Program. 

Brewster felt" ... that the unbroken 
prospect of competitively driven, conven-
tional, academic achiev~ment from age 
five to twenty-five breaks the motivation 
of many of the most highly motivated and 
dulls the intellectual enthusiasm of the 
most intelligent." He conceived of the 
Five-Year B.A. as a remedy to this prob-
lem, as an exploration of new paths of 
learning. It was to be an attempt to expand 
the student's capacity for self-education. 

But the Five-Year B.A. Program served 
only to emphasize the problem. 

There exists at Yale a basic incompatibil-
ity betwen the academic and non-academic 
worlds. With few exceptions, Yale courses 
center on the observation of experience 
rather than on experience itself. Our art 
comes to us through slide projectors, our 
anthropology through texts. The Five-Year 
student has the opportunity to escape this 
academic world, at least for a year, and to 
further his learning through living abroad. 
Unfortunately, he finds that living experi-
ence is incompatible with the emphasis on 
purely academic pursuit prevalent at Yale. 

The lack of individual responsibility in 
forming his education intensifies the Five-
Year student's sense of frustration. He 
finds himself shunted into a standard ma-
jor with no relation to his work abroad. 
The Division IV program supposedly al-
lows him to create his own major, but the 
five-year students imply that it operates 
under" ... antiquated assumptions of what 
constitutes an 'intellectually justified' pro-
gram of studies." 

To correct these problems, the eleven 
students who met with Brewster last 
Thursday made five proposals which 
would affect not only Five-Year B.A. stu-
dents but, more importantly, all Yale 
students. 

1. The replacement of present major require-
ments with suggested guidelines formed 
by a faculty-student committee within 
each major, so that a student may affiliate 
with a major without strictly limiting him-
self to its guidelines. 

2. That all students at the end of sophomore 
year present an intended program of study 
for the next two years, not limited to 
present major programs. 

3. Redefinition of the credit system to allow 
greater emphasis on courses of individual 
interest. For example, a student could 
arrange to receive two credits for a one 
credit course in which he intends to con-
centrate more heavily than other students 
in the course. 

4. Use of the two grade pass-fail system. 

5. The continuation and expansion of the 
Five-Year B.A. Program (already guaran-
teed in weaker form by faculty action 
allowing two-semester leave for indepen-
dent projects to any student in good 
standing). 

Today, nearly five years since its incep-
tion, the Five-Year B.A. faces natural 
death; a weaker five-year alternative has 
gained ground; but for most, the tradi-
tional four-year career stands victorious. 
In 1970, the Carnegie Foundation Grant 
which finances the program's annual bud-
get of nearly $50,000 expires. In light of 
that, both the university and the students 
have begun questioning the value of the 
program to their education and to the 
quality of education at Yale. Brewster, 
Foltz and others will meet this month to 
examine the Five-Year B.A. The answers 
to their questions will determine whether 
the present sophomore class will be the last 
to benefit from the advantages of the ex-
perimental Five-Year B.A. Program. 

Since 1965, forty-six students have en-
joyed those advantages. The program has 
selected them from a small group of ap-
plicants which remains small because of 
paperwork designed to discourage all but 
the more seriously interested applicants. 
The chosen few soon find themselves scat-
tered in unusual situations across the 
world. Each student makes his own ar-
rangements for a suitable job in a non-
Western culture at which be can work for 
twelve to fifteen months. 

Those selected receive assistance in 
dealing with the draft, as well as medical 
attention and advice in choosing prep-
aratory courses, which include tutorial 
arrangements. Yale also pays the travel 
expenses. The only obligation after the 
student arrives in the country is that he 
communicate regularly with the program 
office. 

Participants in the Five-Year B.A. have 
found themselves doing everything from 
teaching debating and English in Katsina, 
Nigeria to translating at the Japan Eco-
nomic Research Center in Tokyo. Almost 
all agree that aspect of the experience has 
been worthwhile and often amazing. 

One student wrote: "Friday evening, 
perhaps stimulated by my interest in his 
performance, one of the Durgas, still 
masked, took from around his own neck 
three special garlands of seeds and flowers 
and placed them around mine. At that 
moment, although I did not know it until 
my astonished village friends told me, I 
became officially, and beyond a shadow 
of a doubt, a Hindu God." 

But the experience also leads to a ques-
tioning of deeper issues. Many five-year 
students, like the people they live with, 
look with jaundiced eye at the abun-
dance of Ugly Americans they encounter 
around the world. They see, as few Ameri-
cans have the opportunity to see, the in-
sanity of South American dictatorships, 
of corrupt Congolese governments and of 
American policies in the midst of this. 

In that sense, they do achieve the 


**The Five-Year B.A.: A Catalyst for University Progress**
**Author: Richard Conniff**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
. \ 
13'1 The New Journal ! December 14, 1969 
" ... healthy tolerance of strangeness and 
a healthy impatience with complacency" 
at which Brewster originally aimed the 
program. 

Their pre-packaged ideas burst in the 
face of reality: "I left the village thinking 
all sorts of marvelously deep Reader's 
Digest-type thoughts about 'timeless 
Africa,' "wrote Brian Sheehan after visit-
ing a village's sacred place. "A few minutes 
later we came across this naked old woman 
living in a tiny mud hut. Her most prized 
possession seemed to be a transistor radio 
which at that particular moment was 
blasting out 'Dance till the Midnight 
Hour.'" 

But their experiences abroad succeed 
not just in increasing their awareness of 
others. By escaping the frustrations of 
,1 
our educational system for a year, many 
of the Fivers have been able to see them-
selves more clearly. Perhaps because they 
1 are totally divorced from their own cul-
ture, they begin to question their relation-
ship to that culture. At work abroad, they 
find real independence possible and gen-
uine responsibility unavoidable. And 
those are two advantages the traditional 
Yale education has more often than not 
denied its students. 

The year-long time-out lets them put 
• · thoughts into proper perspective. The Five-
Year students return more convinced of 
their doubts about Yale and in their ideas 
for changing it. That conviction gave birth 
to their proposals. 

The Five-Year B.A. has succeeded for 
these students in expanding their horizons. 
But the university fails them in that on 
their return, it is incapable of handling 
those expanded horizons, providing little 
opportunity for their integration into 
course work. The luncheon proposals to 
Brewster attempted to alter this. 

"The thing many of us discovered 
abroad,'' explained Jay Fleming, who 
worked last year in Nepal, "is that educa-
tion-learning about oneself-proceeds 
whether you're in an educational institu-
tion or not. The changes we want would 
make every Yale student responsible for 
his own education." 

Most Fivers begin to believe in the over-
whelming importance of non-academic 
education. Away from the paternalism 
and the structured life of Yale, they must 
direct their own learning process. They 
are responsible to, if nothing else, them-
selves. The problem, as those at last 
Thursday's luncheon felt, is that" ... the 
restricted academic and social opportun-
ities encountered by Fivers upon their 
return to Yale have made it extremely 
difficult to capitalize on their non-academic 
experience.'' 

Brewster missed his mark in creating 
the Five-Year B.A. without simultaneously 
making major changes in the educational 
structure. Yale cannot expect a student 
who has spent a year organizing co-opera-
tive farms in Peru to forget that experi-
ence or even temporarily put it aside so 
that he can waste two years completing 
the impersonal requirements of a standard 
major. 

Yet the Five-Year B.A. Office claims 
that the student will not have to ignore 
his non-academic experience during h.is 
last two years at Yale. It promises" ... in-
dividual programs of study during junior 
and senior years specially fitted to their 
interests." 

In the statement which they presented 
to Brewster, these students claimed that 
the promise does not always come through. 
They criticized not just the "antiquated" 
criteria for Division IV, but also its im-
practicality: "Those who attempt to 
channel personal motivation and academic 
interest into a coherent educational pro-
gram encounter difficulty in finding sup-
port and supervision from the faculty. 
All too often the student's response is 
frustration and discouragement. He aban-
dons the pursuit of a personally more 
meaningful and stimulating course of study 
and passively allows himself to be 
channeled into existing academic struc-
tures." 

These problems cloud the success of 
the experimental Five-Year B.A. Pro-
gram. It has proven its worth while at the 
same time pointing out other means of 
i~proving Yale. Through such sugges-
tiOns as the proposals, the program has 
made itself a catlyst for university prog-
ress. Not only do the students benefit from 
a year of self-inspection, but, through the 
students, so can the university. 

When Kingman Brewster proposed the 
Five-Year B.A., he wanted it to reach the 
"considerable number of the young who 
yearn to become involved in something 
more meaningful than inherited patterns 
of success." He cannot do this unless he 
continues and extends this program to 
encompass a larger portion of the student 
body. Any student can now leave for two 
semesters of work. The university should 
begin encouraging students to do so-
some through a new Five-Year B.A. Pro-
gram, others on their own. The four-year 
college career is too arbitrary to be suitable 
for all students. 

At the same time, Brewster and the 
university must begin a revision of Yale's 
educational system so that no student, 
whether he can afford to take a year off 
or not, will find himself frustrated by a 
'protective' education. 

The first Five-Year students found it 
difficult or impossible to relate the world 
of Yale College to the one in which they 
spent their year abroad. The one seems 
totally unrelated to life, the other is as 
real as a begger sleeping on the streets of 
Calcutta. U his promises mean anything, 
Brewster must continue on a larger scale 
the Five-Year B.A. Program, which strives 
to merge and improve both these worlds 
in a rational program of learning. ~ 
Richard Conniff is an undergraduate in 
Silliman College. 


**Yale Film Society Schedule**
**Author: N/A**

Yale Film Society 
Thursday, December 11 
Mann's THE MAN FROM LARAMIE (1955) 
Friday, December 12 
Renoir's THE ELUSIVE CORPORAL (1961) 
Saturday, December 13 
Edwards's THE PINK PANTHER (1964) 
Note: Shows at 6:30, 8:30, and 11 :00. 
Tuesday, December 16 
Godard's PIERROT LE FOU (1967) 
Wednesday, December 17 
Hitchcock's SABOTEUR (1942) and THE THIRTY-NINE STEPS (1935) 
Note: Shows at 7:00 and 10:00 p.m. 
Thursday, December 18 
Walsh's WHITE HEAT (1949) 


**Cha Cha Candy**
**Author: George Kannar**
**Page number(s): 14**

Comment 
continued from page 2 
Cha Cha Candy 
It's too bad Richard Farina isn't at Yale 
this year. After two hundred-odd years of 
soul-deadening mono-education, the girls 
have finally arrived, and the boys have 
been down so long that they know less 
about up and down than old Giant Leap 
for Mankind Armstrong in his weightless 
space capsule. They are floating around 
every which way trying to figure out how 
to cope with this major existential event. 
For many of them the road to Recon-
structed T hought is proving to be long and 
rough. 

Take the college social committees, for 
example. Two of them (at least) hired 
strippers, yep, that's right, bump-and-
grind artists, for their Harvard weekend 
festivities. In at least one case the com-
mittee found the whole affair a bit trau-
matic. Some of the committee members 
were against the idea, some were in favor 
of it, some didn't much care either way-
and all of them were embarrassed. 

The female members of the social com-
mittee were asked to leave the room when 
the subject came up. The idea was not to 
~tic~ your neck out in front of the girls 
JUSt m case the other guys were against it. 
It's OK to talk about it with the other guys, 
but, gosh, the girls might get offended 
and there's no sense risking that unless it's 
unavoidable-like if the vote is close and 
you have to have their opinion. Well, in 
t~e e,nd the guys by and large agreed, the 
g1rls vo~es were not needed and the thing 
was dec1ded upon. But of course it wasn't 
announced to the college at large for fear 
of upsetting a lot of people, and it would 
~II be so messy and embarrassing. 

I must confess that for no particular 
reason I missed the first show. Right after 
I got to the dance, however, Bill came up 
to me and asked me if I'd seen it. He said 
he hadn't seen it either but that he had 
heard from reliable sources that such an 
event had taken place. It sounded like a 
wild rumor so we sat down and with 
Alice's Restaurant-like diligende, tried to 
figure out what might actually have hap-
pened. The two most likely things were: 
one, that it was a lie, that nothing had 
happened at all; and, two, that it was a 
joke, that some crazy guy or coed was 
making fun of the old Yale mentality. 

It was neither, for at five minutes to mid-
night Cha Cha Candy came downstairs 
from the college library. And we all sud-
denly knew that it wasn't a lie or a joke: it 
was for real. It proceeded to get more and 
more real for the next five minutes; lights 
low, fraternity types surrounding the 
stage, soul band playing Cannonball Ader-
ley's "Mercy, Mercy" in a slow, soft, 
tempting, mournful, aching way. 

First a cape came down to eager social 
committee arms below the stage. Next 
someone had to do the zipper. After that 
I couldn't see much because Candy seemed 
'?be sitting down or something, but next 
time she popped up she had a telephone 
attached to one of her breasts, and she 
started going around inviting (or daring?) 
people to dial a number. And the tele-
phone dial? Yep, right where you guessed. 

The crowd did not exactly go wild, most-
ly because they did not know just how to 
deal with the situation. Many cheered with 
drunken good nature, a few were appalled, 
and most stood silently by, struck either 
by the crudity of the performance (which, 
at a mere eighty dollars of social fee 
money, was pretty cheap) or the incom-
prehensibility of the stripper's presence in 
the first place. Many unabashedly gawked. 

And, a little surprisingly, the girls, both 
coeds and dates, didn't seem to mind at 
all. 

Afterward the social committee ob-
viously felt kind of guilty about the whole 
thing, so it put out a cover-up story which 
blandly asserted that most people enjoyed 
the show and taunted the silent majority 
by saying only "a few anonymous com-
plaints were heard about the 'degradation 
of the female body.'" 

But would they have said such things at 
all before this year? One suspects that 
thoughts of equality and ideas of rethink-
ing social relations between the sexes are 
gradually and painfully beginning to seep 
into the minds of even the most unrecon-
structed Yalies. That's a good thing cer-
tainly, but I wonder how many more of 
these "conversation pieces" (in the social 
committee's own words) we will have to 
endure. 

We've been down so long it all looks 
fuzzy to us-and it probably will for some 
time yet. 
George Kannar 


**Classifieds**

Classifieds 
20¢per word 
Ads may be mailed to Classified, The New 
Journal, 3432 Yale Station, New Haven 
Connecticut 06520. 
' 
WANTED: Ed Landler. Tell 'em Groucho 
sent you. 
IS FICTION DEAD? 
Movie reviews written on request. A dime 
a dozen. Snark. 432-4434 
64 is the most beautiful number. 
WANTED: Banjo. Call Steve, 432-1735. 
WANTED: Jobs in non-Western cultures. 
Contact Five-Year B.A. Program Office. 
YOU BET YOUR LIFE revived. 
READING EXCITEMENT: BACK COPIES 
OF THE NEW JOURNAL AVAILABLE. 
Call 776-9989 
HAVE YOU been through the Phantom 
Tollbooth? Yes or no, call432-3065. 
KEEP C.M.P. IN NEW HAVEN-rally 
Friday at Beinecke Plaza 
Jennifer, we forgive you. Study hard. 
FOR SALE: One set of Great Books for 
Great People or their Great Children. Call 
432-1865. 
FOR SALE: Sitar, made in Calcutta by 
master craftsman. Call Ed, 432-1808. $250. 
LIGGETrS is pronounced with soft G's. 
Harriet, thanks, and happy birthday to you 
too-P. 
AVAILABLE: Critic to write on architectural 
subjects. Will tackle any subject I can under-
stand. No idiosyncrasies, except will not go 
near tightrope. Write AL.H., clothe 
N~w York Tim~s, N.Y., N.Y. 


The 
Alpine Haus 
area's most exclusive 
ski shop 
featuring 
skis by 
Head, Hart, Kniesel, Fisher, 
Rosignol, VR17, K-2, Yamaha 
boots by 
large, Rosemount, Raichle, 
Rieker, Koflax 
fashions by 
Spinnerin, Roffe, White Stag, 
Sportscaster, Alps port, 
Ljungberg, Obermeyer 
located 
1070 South Main St. 
Cheshire, Conn, 
telephone: 272-6614


TINKER SHOP 
75 Whitney Ave. 
777-1097 
open r C>--9 each day until Christmas 
Gifts from every land 
wooden items 
pottery 
fur rugs 
designer clothes 
tiny toys 
imported decorations


Bowl and Board 
COMMUNICATE 
It's reaching out to someone you love. 
It's sharing your day, your ideas. 
Communicate all the way across the coun-
try for as little as a dollar plus tax after 
7 p.m. weekdays, and all day Saturday 
and Sunday. (It's only 75¢ if you dial it 
yourself after midnight.) 
COMMUNICATION - It's what we're 
all about. 
@Southern New Englandlelephone



**Title: None**
**Author: None**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NEW HAYEN'S NEWEST STEREO SHOP
OF A NEW AND EXCITING IDEA
IN HI-FI STEREO RETAILING
THE BEST MERCHANDISE FOR THE LOWEST POSSIBLE COST
OO>~cc~mru~~[F3 ® ~[F3lffi~OO> ©[t)~~o~~
~®rn~HID [LO~~ ill [r001J ®~~ lYOOll
00~~
~ill~~ OOOOill~[[)~ ~~~~OOO[L~ [rOOD©~~
©DOillOO@~ [r[Lill~ ©00~[])01J lY~OO~~
OO>~cc~mru~~[F3 ® ~[F3lffi~OO> @[t)~~O[M~

AMPEX ADC ACOUSTIC RESEARCH ACOUSTECH
AUDIOTAPE BASF BARZILAY BENJAMIN
BSR BOGEN CITATION CONCORD CMLABS
CROWN DUAL DYNACO EICO ELECTROVOICE EMARE
OO>~cc~mru~~[F3 ® ~[F3lffi~@ ©[t)~~o~~
[¥0~00~00 @illOOOOill[[) @@@[[)~ill~~ OOillOO~ill~
~illOOOO®~
cDill~LZ~~ dJ~~~~~ ~~~W®®OO ~®~~ [Lill~~Om@ [L~illOO ~[L[}{]
[L~ill~ ~OOOill©®OOOO ~®rnOO~~~~CID~ ~®rn~[L@@ ®OOlf®ff®~
rn~©lYD[LD~~illoo rn~~®~ oo®rn~rnv~ ill~oo ~ffi~\1 ~®rn~
@~cc~m~~[F3 ® ~oorru~@ ©[t)~~o~~
il!XJ~ t!\lW©O© ~[}{)@W~t!\~rn
~~!IQ~® W[}{)£!\llllrnV !A W~o
~~w [}:{]/A wrn~o ~@~lMo
[p[}{]@~~ ~®~Q~~ilil

OPEN EVERY NIGHT UNTIL CHRISTMAS
FREE EXPERT ADVICE
50 NATIONAL BRANDS


