Publication date: 12/88
Volume 21, Issue 3

**Title: Labor Management**
**Author: Motoko Rich**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
At Yale, when academia merges with parenthood, having a child becomes a political issue.


Susanne Wofford's colleagues see her as a pioneer. An assistant professor in the English department, she gave birth to her son, Gabriel, in mid-semester. In doing so, Wofford broke with Yale's unspoken wish that faculty members have children without interrupting their teaching schedule. Although her baby arrived three-and-a-half weeks early, Wofford fortunately suffered no serious health complications and only missed four weeks of classes. In her case, Yale was lucky. The English Department took up the slack for Yale's deficient maternity policy. When it comes to scheduling children, faculty par'f!nts must plan around Mother Yale. 
At Yale, when academia merges with parenthood, having a child becomes a political issue. Untenured instructors face pressure to make their mark as scholars in a flXed amount of time. Members of the faculty can spend at most seven years as assistant professors, and in that time must do substantial research and writing to prove eligible for promotion. period usually falls within prime childbearing years, when faculty members are between their late twen-ties and mid-thirties. During this time, untenured instructors are most vul-nerable in their jobs. Junior faculty members can't afford to make waves and may feel that having children at all would jeopardize their standing. 
The politics of pregnancy center on maternity leave. The Yale faculty handbook poorly articulates the guidelines for leaves related to child-birth. It addresses childbearing under the same rubric as temporary disability from illness or accident. The handbook states: "Faculty members are expected to try to complete the academic term they have begun." Such a statement reflects the University's sentiment that faculty members should plan childbirth around summers or fellowship leaves-paid breaks from teaching duties that allow faculty to research and write. But the policy doesn't get any more specific. The University allocates no set time for a maternity leave, forcing individual departmental heads to make arrangements case-by-case. "Although there is certainly a goodwill attempt among the depart-ments to help out, that isn't a political solution," said Jennifer Wicke, associate professor of English and Comparative Literature. 
From the University's point of view, maternity leaves disrupt the academic schedule. If a ·mother takes six weeks off to give birth and recover in the middle of the semester, a replacement teacher must come in, and students have to adjust to an instructor who didn't design the course. 
Arrangements for Susanne Wofford's leave were improvised by Wofford and English Department Chairman Richard Brodhead. Pur-suing the available options -together, they found the leave policy difficult to follow, and Brodhead contacted the Provost's office for advice. The office provided him with a flXed sum for a substitute instructor. In Wofford's case, the Provost's office granted the equivalent of one term's salary for a teaching assistant (I' A) for English 129. Wofford divided this money be-tween her two courses and aimed for a leave of three to four weeks. Now that she has had the baby, Wofford says she would have preferred six weeks to re-cuperate, the standard time doctors suggest for a new mother to recover from a pregnancy. But in the best in-terests of her students and in fairness to her replacement, Wofford arranged to miss a minimal amount of time. 
Although she hasn't had difficulty returning to her classes, she has had trouble keeping up with the work she does at home. Staying up with a de-manding newborn doesn't give her the time she would like to grade papers on Paradise Lost. 
At home, Wofford shares the re-sponsibilities for Gabriel with her hus-band. In thl" university community, she faces the immediate consequences of motherhood alone. The effort to combine parenting and career remains primarily a woman's problem. 
Harriet Chessman, an untenured associate professor of English and mother of two, is married to tenured associate English professor Bryan Wolf. Together they approach the challenges of parenthood and academia as a faculty couple. But when it comes to the details of childcare, "women are still the primary caretakers of small children," Chessman said. Although men are contributing more to childcare, women still carry the child for nine months and attend to most of the newborn's immediate needs. Ac-cording to Wicke, women who are competitive within the system still fear the possible prejudice in a male-dominated university. Wofford added, "One fears that there will be the stereotype of the woman who is no longer serious about her career." In such a world, "having a child is a liability," said Margaret Ferguson, former professor of English and Com-parative Literature, now at Columbia University. 
To help them balance the childcare burden, Yale offers both parents an un-paid leave of absence of up to one semester the year of childbirth. Se-parate from the maternity-disability leave, the unpaid parental leave stops the tenure clock, freezing the race toward professorship for one term. Yet most academics cannot afford such a luxury. Wofford, for example, had to continue working because her husband is a graduate student, and her salary must support them both. 
Many women on the faculty, dis-satisfied with the undefined or unpaid leave options the University provides, try to plan their pregnancies around fellowship leaves. Faculty members who give birth during their fellowship leaves forfeit a crucial opportunity to advance their academic careers. They cannot produce as well as someone who uses the same leave for scholarly pursuits only. "You're competing at a disadvantage for tenure if you have children," Wofford said. 
Children naturally divide an academic's attention at a time when research and publishing could secure promotion or tenure. Junior faculty members have only one chance at a paid fellowship leave during their time as assistant professors. Associate professors can take a triennial leave and have access to a Senior Faculty Fellowship, which provides an extra paid semester for research. 
Harriet Chessman, having had her first child during a summer, waited to have her second child until she could take her Senior Faculty Fellowship leave. She now regrets tha·t she used up her research leave instead of chal-lenging Yale's timetable. "As an institution I don't think Yale is child-friendly," she said. "I realize now I should have worked harder to get a maternity leave with some pay, and then taken my Senior Faculty Fel-lowship after the baby was about a year old. I think I would have gotten more work done. For the first five months of the baby's life I was quite absorbed." 
While in Chessman's eyes Yale resists accommodating children, she has made