Publication date: November 2008
Volume: 41
Issue number: 3


**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Lauren Harrison
- Editor-in-Chief: Nicole Allan
- Managing Editors: Amy Fish, Mitch Reich
- Designers: Alice Buttrick, Aimee Marquez
- Senior Editors: Nick Handler, Jordan Jacks
- Production Manager: Ben Lasman
- Photo Editor: Miranda Popkey
- Web Editor: Ali Seitz
- Associate Editors: Laura Bennett, Sarah Nutman, Kate Selker, Laura Zax
- Research Director: Laura Yao
- Copy Editor: Alexandra Schwartz
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Roger Cohn, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong, John Swansburg
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kmtz-Phelan, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Emily Bazelon, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Daphne Chu, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O'Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, R Anthony Reese, Rollin Riggs, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Jessica Winter, Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

SNAPSHOTS - 
STANDARDS - 
POWER HUNGRY - Amy Fish
FORTUNE TELLERS - Laura Zax
RADIO ACTIVE - Sarah Nutman
BURNING BRIDGES - Marissa Grunes
LOOSE FOOTING - Sophie Quinton
POINTS OF DEPARTURE - 
PROFILE - Kate Lund
THE CRITICAL ANGLE - justin Stone
ENDNOTE - Liz Deutsch


**Title: POWER HUNGRY**
**Author: Amy Fish**
**Page number(s): 11**

Reducing emissions, increasing consumption: 
Can Yale have it all?


**Title: FORTUNE TELLERS**
**Author: Laura Zax**
**Page number(s): 15**

In today's economy, should Yale spend its en-
dowment?


**Title: RADIO ACTIVE**
**Author: Sarah Nutman**
**Page number(s): 20**

Yale's AM station tunes in to past glory.


**Title: BURNING BRIDGES**
**Author: Marissa Grunes**
**Page number(s): 32**

Yale-run community center trims its grassroots.


**Title: LOOSE FOOTING**
**Author: Sophie Quinton**
**Page number(s): 34**

Outdoor enthusiasts struggle for Yale's support.


**Title: PROFILE**
**Author: Kate Lund**
**Page number(s): 38**

Small Town Values


**Title: THE CRITICAL ANGLE**
**Author: justin Stone**
**Page number(s):  (Page number missing)**

Tome Raiders


**Title: ENDNOTE**
**Author: Liz Deutsch**

Classifieds, Nov. 5, 2008


**Chimes of Passion**
**Author: Adam Horowitz**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
( . 
• 
' 
CHIMES OF 
PASSION 
One day in the middle of the 1950s, 
after a career performing small roles on 
Broadway and Swedish dialect parts in 
radio shows, Robyna Neilson Ketchum 
stopped smoking and announced that she 
. 
would collect bells in order to fill the void. 
The decision was not entirely out of the 
blue, her husband wrote after her death 
in 1975. As a child growing up in Min-
. nesota, Ms. Ketchum had loved "antiques 
and echoes." It was not surprising, then, 
that she would one day come to be known 
as the "Bell Lady" and that her collection 
would "be Enshrined at Yale among the 
·World's Greatest Instruments.'' 
When people visit Yale's Collection of 
Musical Instruments in an ornate stone 
house on Hillhouse Avenue in New Ha-
ven, they generally flock upstairs to see the 
pianos, harpsichords, and clavichords, or 
meander downstairs amidst Stradivarii and 
early American piccolos. Few visitors enter 
a small room to the right of the entrance 
that displays about half of Ketchum's col-
lection of over four hundred bells from 
around the world. Once a harpsichord 
studio, the room was redesigned to house 
the bells after Ketchum died. Its black 
walls disappear into the ceiling and creep 
quietly into the corners, making way for 
well-lit display cases and, in the center, an 
austere square platform strewn with bul-
bous sound-makers. 

The bells that line the cases come in 
every shape and ring. in every tone. Susan 
E. Thompson, a curator at the museum, 
is not herself a campanologist, but she 
knows her bells (or, to be technical about 
it, her idiophones). "Most people come 
in thinking that bells have to · have clap-
pers," Thompson tells me, referring to the 
. dangling, clanging part inside many bdls . . 
"Well, they don't!" She picks up a mbonga 
from Central Africa to reveal its empty in~ 
terior. All you have to do is strike it and 
it reverberates. Maybe that's what drew 
Ketchum to these instruments 
their ac-
cessibility. Bells don't require extensive 
musical training to play; just a flick of the 
wrist or a tap of a stick will do. Ping! Ririg! 
Donngg. What satisfying little things. And 
they can be scintillating beyond sound. 

Thompson pulls a Japanese rattle off the 
wall and notes, "I have to be careful to dis-
play this one on the right side.'~ The "right" 
·side has Chinese characters engraved on 
large, round, coin-like surfaces. The wrong 
side seems to be just squiggles 
squiggles 
which, at second glance, are clearly depic-
tions of four different sexual positions. 

Thompson takes the handle and shakes 
the rattle in the air 
"Fertility!" 

In this room full -of handles, I begin to 
imagine hands. Here, a hand emerging 
from the orange robes of a Buddhist monk 
on pilgrimage. There, the calloused hand 
of a Swiss farmer. The hand of an African 
witch doctor next to that of an Italian 
priest. All ringing, striking, shaking bells. 

A French businessman taps his gaudy 
desk bell, which is topped with a scant-
ily clad Native American warrior. Nurses 
walk around hospital corridors Clanging 
heavy, nurse-shaped bells in 19th-century 
England. · Who, I wonder, shook the bell 
shaped like an Iron Maiden, the vicious 
18th-century German torture device? Ex-
amining the labels, I realize that the cast 
of missing music-makers is actually an 
interspecies bunch. There are bells, now 
dormant, that once hung on the necks of 
Scandinavian cows and the legs ofThai el-
ephants. 

More evocative than the bells them-
selves are the sounds they produce. While 
most of the bells remain behind glass cas-
es, their collective capabilities can be heard 
in a soundscape that plays from speakers 
mounted on a fireplace in the back of the 
room. More than one thousand years of 
sacred and profane sounds ring, arhyth-
mically, atonally. Some summon, others 
warn. Waves of slow, almost aquatic bass 
notes vibrate beneath the quick tingling of 
metallic chimes. There is s?mething calm 
and contemplative in these invisibly ris-
ing a~d subsiding . tones, but tfi'ere is also 
something~grand and urgent and compli-
cated. At ~imes I feel as if I'~ in engaged 
in some chaotic, multicu1tural ·ceremony 
with a million different rituMs and a mil-
lion different paths to transcendence, I am 
suddenly struck by the phrase "the ring of 
truth.'' 

Scholars come to the Bell Room to de-
cipher all kinds of mysteries 
to exam-
ine symbols on various Buddhist bells and 
Japanese gongs or to of!er theories ~m the 
possible connection between ancient Peru-
vian bells and similar vers.ions from South-
e~t Asia, sketching out unusual lines of 
human migration. The Bell Room, it 
turn~ out, offers a crash course in, among 
other disciplines, wodd religion, metal-
lurgy, and global history. There is . some 
doubt, though, as to the legitimacy of all 
the labels. "She says they're from Japan," 
Thompson says, looking skeptically at a set 
of handbells. The. "she" in question is, of 
course, Ms. Ketchum, on whose original 
labels the understaffed Collection of Mu-
sical Instruments has had to rely. 

I wonder again about Robyna Ketchum. 
Why bells? Was this her way of traveling 
the world? Of vicariously experiencing 
ceremonies and systems from across time? 
Venturing into the sonic unknown? The 
very last bell in the room's longest display 
case is, perhaps, the only one of truly in-
disputable origin. It belongs to an identi-
fiable time and place. It is a bell for the 
US Bicentenntial, designed by Ketchum 
herself just before her death. It is small 
and golden, decorated with an eagle, stars, 
and patriotic phrases 
a hand bell remi-
niscent of the Liberty Bell, and one of the 
few artifacts in the room that I think I un-
derstand. I give it a ring. I never did hear 
Robyna Ketchum the Broadway singer or 
Robyna Ketchum the radio character, but 
as a bell, Robyna Ketchum sounds crisp 
and bright. 

-Adam Horowitz 


**Cross Roads**
**Author: Ben Lasman**
**Page number(s): 5**

CROSS ROADS 
I first encountered Holy Land USA, a 
now-defunct Christian amusement park 
in Waterbury, Connecticut, when I was 
nine years old and on vacation with my 
evangelist neighbors as part of their ongo-
ing and ill-fated project to enfold me into 
the flock. The family was nice enough, 
but something about their dynamic left 
me unnerved: The father was upstand-
ing, but with an officious and verbally 
abusive streak. The children seemed to 
believe that bees were satanic slaves. And 
the mother, congenial, pious, vaguely 
medicated, might have possessed as much 
faith in the miracle workings of Cymbalta 
as she did in anything prescribed by the 
New Testament. As we drove across the 
state to a steady stream of Worship FM, 
the illuminated crucifix standing atop the 
decrepit remains of Holy Land was visible 
&om the highway for miles in each direc-
tion and appeared to represent some kind 
of spiritual harbinger for the weekend to 
come. Would I embrace Christ? Would 
the magic finally take effect? 

"There's the cross!" exclaimed the sev-
en-year-old daughter from her car-seat. 
All eyes turned to the road as we passed 
beneath the embankment. It was a sin-
gular vision of roadside rapture. The cars 
around us fell away from view, the sound 
of the radio receded. But this transcendent 
moment could not tast. "Pay · attention 
to the road, dear," came the concerned 
wife's voice. Before long, we had passed 
Holy Land by and found ourselves at 
some cloistered resort, possibly also called 
Holy I .and, playing tennis and muttering 
November 2008 
prayers over macaroni and cheese. I never 
got around to embracing the Savior, but 
the image of that cross stayed with me. I 
vowed to return to Waterbury one day, but 
in different company. 

In April 2008, the crucifix had been 
torn down by the city and replaced ~ith 
a new, polished-metal replica. It was an 
unexpected decision, given the morbid 
disrepair into which the rest of Holy Land 
had been allowed to fall following its 1984 
closure. The simultaneously charming and 
psychotic brainchild of a loc~ lawyer, the 
park was originally imagined as a divine 
alternative to places like Disney World 
or Universal Studios, and in the midst of 
its 1950s heyday drew tens of thousands 
of visitors a year. A half-century later, its 
miniature recreation of Bethlehem has 
crumbled and pine trees shield the bits of 
scripture carved into stone. Guarding the 
hallowed ground is a convent of nuns who 
reside in a complex by the chain-linked 
gate and make it their business to chase 
away marauding hoboes or sexually ad-
venturous teenagers. In an alarming and 
poignant transformation, Holy Land USA 
has mutated into something more akin to 
Holy Shit USA, hallowed ground whose 
present-day allure seems less ecclesiastical 
than sublimely ironic. 

It was a rainy and miserable night this 
November when I finally embarked on 
my long-awaited return to holy ground. 
In place of Christ-crazy chaperones, I was 
accompanied by my alcoholic roommates. 
Instead.of DC Talk, we listened to NWA. 
As we cruised through toilet-bowl weather 
to a Death Row soundtrack, I knew that 
a new era had arrived. I have difficulty~ 
believing in a higher power, but at the 
time, something about driving a Japanese 
vehicle through collapsing New England 
strip-malls as "Straight out of Compton" 
destroyed the speakers felt like an undeni-
ably spiritual, if not necessarily liturgical, 
phenomenon. After 45 minutes~ the glow-
ing cross dawned over the damp cesspool 
of Waterbury like an ostentatious street-
lamp. I was overjoyed. "I hope we don't 
get murdered," my roommate muttered. 

Holy Land, while technically private 
property, is not difficult to infiltrate. Af-
ter parking our car down the hill from the 
convent so as to avert whatever kind of po-
lice attention exists near large populations 
of nuns, we walked around the border 
fence and entered the complex through 
an open gate. In the darkness, we pulled 
aside branches to reveal decimated altars 
and busted porcelain figurines. Micro-
Bethlehem, up close, shrouded in fog, had 
devolved into a violent parody of religious 
tourism. This was not faded glory but 
total annihilation. The flocks of families 
the site once hosted had left no trace of 
their presence; the sole indication of hu-
man contact was lazy and unimaginative 
vandalism, an anarchy sign spray-painted 
over a shattered Virgin. We moved uphill, 
pushing past trees, until the forest opened 
up and the crucifix stood before us. Stand-
ing on the cinder base beneath its soar-
ing, electrified scaffolding, the three of us 
looked do~n ,on Waterbury, the windows 
of its innumerable department stores and 
gas stations and hospitals glowing in the 
fog like fireflies in a swamp. It was all very 
moving and beautiful, as if the lights of the 
amusement park had somehow migrated 
down the hill from Holy Land to set up a 
more permanent and depressing camp in 
the valley, some sort of strange and fallen 
Palestine. 

When Walt Disney gave evangelist 
preacher Billy Graham a tour of Disney-
land, his guest is known to have remarked 
that the park was pure make-believe. Dis-
ney responded, "You know, the fantasy isn't 
here. This is very real ... the park is reality. 
The people are natural here; they're hav-
ing a good time; they're communicating. 
That's what people really are. The fantasy 
is out there 
outside the gates of Disney-
land, where people have hatreds and peo-
ple have jealousy. It's not really real." 

But Holy Land hints at a new progno-
sis. The hatreds of people are directed at 
rides and icons 
a trash-filled manger, a 
concrete Jesus anointed in graffiti 
while 
the real world, imperfect and hazy but im-
bued with a prescient and artificial magic, 
sits in a valley filled with cars'and nuns. 

-BenLasman 


**Teach for America**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 6**

TEACH FOR 
AMERICA 
On the second floor of the Whitney 
and Betty MacMillan Center for Interna-
tional and Area Studies one November af-
ternoon, a group of four visiting scholars is 
squeezed around an oval table for lunch. A 
woman with dark, billowing hair takes out 
a Ziploc container of rice mixed with tra-
ditional Indian dhal and yogurt. The man 
beside her mangles through Chinesenoo-
dles with chopsticks; his neighbors munch 
on falafel wraps. Interspersing bites of food 
with chatter in diverse accents, they share 
stories of their home countries, bringing 
global interaction to Hillhouse Avenue. 

In 1996, when Professor Gustav Ranis 
took over as director of the then-named 
Yale Council on International and Area 
Studies, the council brought only three to 
four visiting scholars to campus annually. 
The year before, the Council had con-
solidated and moved into Luce Hall, and 
President Levin 
who had already made a 
priority of internationalization of the Uni-
versity's research and curriculum 
charged 
Ranis with the mission of, metaphorically 
and literally, "filling up the building." The 
MacMillan Center now invites approxi-
mately one hundred such visiting scholars 
to Yale in both teaching and researching 
capacities, with about half typically com-
ing from abroad. 

The numbers of international visitors 
across the University are far more stagger-
ing, and Yale consistently ranks among the 
top ten U.S. institutions sponsoring schol-
ars from abroad. During the 1997-1998 
school year, Yale hosted 889 international 
visitors. By 2007-2008, this number had 
more than doubled, with 1,920 scholars 
visiting from just under a hundred coun-. 
tries. More than half of these scholars are 
affiliated with the School of Medicine or 
various scientific research facilities, how-
ever, and rarely encounter undergraduates 
in a classroom . 

What differentiates the MacMillan 
Center's international visitors is their abil-
ity to provide their students with a direct 
link to the global issues that they-research 
and teach. Jarie Edwards, dean ofinterna-
tional affairs for Yale College, emphasizes 
the immediacy that international scholars 
bring when they teach about their home 
regions. "There's nothing like studying 
'ith someone who has just gotten off a 
plane from, say, Bolivia, to learn about the 
situation there right now," she says. 

International professors are especially 
prevalent in two relatively new majors:-
South Asian Studies and Modern Middle 
East Studies. Until more permanent fac-
ulty members are hired, these visitors can 
fill positions and draw · attention to the 
new maJors. 

Larisa Satara, who joined the Mac-
Millan Center staff six years ago as the first 
director of the Visiting Scholars Exchange, 
organized academic orientations to life at 
Yale. Satara explains _ that visitors come to 
Yale for a variety of durations and in dif-
ferent capacities: Some teach classes, some 
come to do their own research, some stay 
the whole year, others for only six weeks. 
These scholars are distributed throughout 
Yale's departments and the various coun-
cils at the MacMillan Center and receive 
grants and fellowships from Yale as well as 
from their home countries. 

The Office of International Students 
and Scholars works to prepare visitors for 
life at Yale, in New Haven, in America. It 
supplements faculty-led dinner conver-
sations on "Understanding America''-
discussions about American political and 
social issues 
with a more informal forum 
called "Crossing Cultures," which focuses 
on more mundane aspects of American 
life: email etiquette, "how to make small 
talk," and U.S. holiday traditions. A popu-
lar topic is "U.S. food," the discussion of 
which includes instructions on how to eat 
a baked potato. 

But cultural instruction cannot always 
ease the strain on international families. 
Marvan Khawaja, a visiting professor 
from the American University of Bei-
rut, has found the transition to be "very 
challenging." His wife, who worked as 
a painter in Lebanon, is trying to pur-
sue her art in New Haven but has begun 
working at a day care to keep · busy . . The 
situation has also been difficult for Kha-
waja's 13-year-old son, for whom it took 
the family three months to find a school. 
"[My son] was very nervous about coming 
to a new school, about how he would get 
along with the other students, about our 
name ... " Khawaja trails off. It probably 
would have been easier if his son had not 
come, he later confides. 

Yet for Charu Gupta, the most difficult 
aspect of the transition has been leaving her 
13-year-old son behind in India, where she 
teaches at the University of Delhi. Gupta's 
son will have to take centralized board ex-
ams next year and they both thought he 
would fall behind in his work if he joined 
his mother in America for the year. 

The challenges faced by Khawaja and 
Gupta are shared by many scholars with 
families, whether or not their spouses and 
children move to New Haven. The transi-
tion forces children to adjust to new envi-
ronments or learn to be independent from 
their parents; spouses have to make sacri-
fices and often take on unfamiliar family 
roles. Gupta says that her husband is tak-
ing care of their son and home, "in tnany 
ways. defYing and challenging the stereo-
types that we have of South Asian men." 

Despite the challenges, Gupta empha-
sizes the many merits of teaching abroad. 
With no domestic obligations, she has the 
freedom to participate fully in academic 
and social life at Yale. She has relished the 
chance to listen to such "stars" as Jiirgen 
Habermas, who visited Yale last month, 
and has been taking advantage of the exten-
sive library resources here. She has learned 
about different pedagogical options: In 
India, most of her classes are taught as 
"a monologue," but after witnessing the 
interactive nature of Yale seminars, she 
hopes to better integrate her students into 
class discussion when she returns home. In 
addition, meeting colleagues at the Mac-
Millan Center and throughout the Yale 
faculty, she has formed a cross-cultural 
and cross-regional network of friends that 
she hopes to maintain. 

And when she misses aspects of Indian 
culture that are absent in New Haven-
the street food, the "buzz" of the October 
festival month 
she turns to Yale's active 
South Asian community. 

Christer Thornqvist, a professor from 
Sweden whose visit to Yale was his first



**Cheer and Loathing**
**Author: Susie Park**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
to the country, says he has only to make 
a trip to IKEA, which he describes as a 
"small Sweden," to find a bit of home in 
New Haven. 
-Naina Saligram 
CHEER AND 
LOATHING 
As a high school senior attending Bull-
dog Days, Michelle Wolfe DC '11 knew 
that she wanted to join the cheer squad. 
But when she asked her Bulldog Days host 
about Yale cheerleading, Wolfe, who was 
a varsity cheerleader at her high school, 
was disappointed to hear that the Univer-
sity apparently didn't have a squad. At the 
next day's extracurricular bazaar, however, 
she came across an enthusiastic group of 
Yale undergraduates brandishing a "Yale 
Cheerleading" sign. 
"My host didn't think there was one," 
Wolfe says. ''And I still get the same reac-
tions from people when I tell them I am 
on the cheerleading team. It seems 'to be a 
confusing and surprising concept because 
some hadn't realized that Yale even had 
cheerleaders!" 
Yalies may be oblivious to their school's 
small but active cheer culture because they 
don't attend games, or because they cave 
to popular stereotypes of cheerleaders and 
assume that such a culture cannot ·exist 
within Yale's Gothic towers and legendary 
libraries. Many would be surprised, how-
ever, to find that Yale's cheer squad is en-
trenched in a near-century of history. 
Originally a band of "yell-leaders" who 
November 2008 
frequented intercollegiate athletic events, 
the Yale Cheerleading Squad officially 
formed in 1912. Since the school didn't 
go co-ed untill969, these early cheerlead-
. ers were, like most Yalies at the time, male 
. students from elite secondary schools. 
The Bush men 
Prescott Sheldon Bush 
'16, George H. W. Bush '48,. and George 
W. Bush '68 
were all avid members of 
the Yale Cheerleading Squad; a picture of 
Sheldon Bush mid-cheer is tucked in away 
in Sterling Library's Manuscripts and Ar-
chives. In those early years, cheerleaders 
embodied not only school spirit but also 
masculinity and leadership, and they re-
ceived wide respect and admiration from 
the student body 
Anyone who has ever seen Bring It On, 
Bring It On Again, Bring It On: All Or 
Nothing, or Bring It On: In It To Win It 
is familiar with the archetypal American 
cheerleader: blonde, peppy, and subject 
to vicious social laws. Many members of 
Yale's cheer squad complain that people 
who don't know them personally make 
assumptions about their intelligence and 
sincerity based on their pastime. 
Even for Kimberlee Sheldon BK '1 0, 
who grew up in England, such American 
media portrayals are a cultural landmark. 
"I saw in all these American films that 
cheerleaders in high school were kind of 
bimbo-y and often were the popular girls 
with mean personalities," Sheldon says. 
"But I thought that might be different on 
a college level." 
Such films in fact encouraged Sheldon 
to try cheerleading what better way to 
immerse oneself in apple-pie Americana 
than by cheering at football games? · Bu~ 
she was disappointed to discover that the 
activity was not quite as popular at Yale 
as she'd imagined. "Yale girls tend to have 
hostile reactions toward cheerleading," 
Sheldon explains. "When we are trying to 
recruit and approach random girls to ask if 
they are interested in joining, some would 
go, 'Eww; no, why would I want to do 
that?' I could see this happening in high 
school, but this is really redundant here: I 
mean, we are all at Yale." 
Co-captain Lindsay Barbee TC '09 be-
lieves that Yale cheerleaders defy the ste-
reotypes. "Since a young age, cheerleaders 
are sort of the Gossip Girls of high school. 
They are hot, slutty, stupid, and popular," 
she says. "Perhaps some cheerleaders act 
that way, but not all, and definitely not 
Yale Cheer. While many of my teammates 
are quite stunning," Barbee continues, 
'·'we don't ever attempt to exude a sexy im-
age. We are bouncy, we are sharp, we are 
cute. " 
Male cheerleaders battle stereotypes as 
well, but of an entirely different nature. 
Grant Goodlin PC '10, although aware of 
the popular assumption that stuntmen are 
gay, has not experienced more than mild 
surprise from anyone who has found out 
that . he joined the squad this year. "But' 
I've gotten some great reactions," he says. 
''And I hear stuff like, 'Way to go, Grant! 
I thought that cheerleading was only for 
girls!' and 'Introduce me to some of your 
new friends."' 
Last year, former stuntman Phil Clop-
ton MC '08 won the honored title of Mr. 
Yale, which the cheer squad now uses as a 
recruiting point for future stuntmen: "Mr. 
Yale was a cheerleader!" they tell recruits. 
And the Yale name, of course, goes a 
long way to dissolve various other side 
effects of the Bring It On franchise. "We 
are cheerleaders," Barbee says, "but we are 
Yale cheerleaders. Clearly the Yale comes 
first." 
-.Susie Park


**Sunday Night Lights**
**Author: Kate Selker**

SUNDAY NIGHT 
LIGHTS 
Christ Church draws its largest crowd 
of the week to sit in the dark and stare at 
an empty altar. Every Sunday at 9 p.m., 
there are multicolored candles, sweet in-
cense, and entrancing music. But there 
is no minister, no Bible, and no choir in 
sight. The crowd at the Compline service 
is decidedly non-churchy, though a few 
genuflect and make the sign of the cross 
before sitting. Most are young 
twenty-
somethings in couples and small groups, 
7 
wearing sweatshirts and high heeled boots. 
This crowd seems less interested in God 
than in music, light, and calm . 
In such an empty, cavernous church, 
footsteps and whispers sound vaguely me-
h>dic. For a few minutes, the only sounds 
are the taking-off of coats, the unzipping 
of zippers, the placing of backpacks into 
chairs. When the real music begins, it is 
cryptic, merely a low, vibrating note. The 
singers are unseen in · a balcony above 
the pews, and, slowly, words begin ·to 
form. Voices chant, "Arne 
nnn." Plain-
song, the style of liturgical chant sung at 
Compline, involves a single melody and 
no instrumental accompaniment. It's a 
non-Whiffenpoof sort of a capella, with 
l9w tones that rise to the high ribs of the 
church ceiling 
"Lord, have mercy upon 
us" 
female notes blending like chimes 
into the deep swell of male voices. "Glory 
be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the 
Holy Ghost .... " 
The lyrics change by season, according 
to the customs of the centuries-old mo-
nastic orders of St. Benedict. For over a 
thousand years, Compline services have 
been part of a cycle of prayer and music 
to mark the end of the day, the last of 
eight canonical Hours performed by the 
Christian church. Christ Church, accord-
• 
ing to its website, se~s Compline as "the 
sole point of calm in a hectic week," meant 
for "a new kind of worshipper." It posts 
podcasts of sermons online and welcomes 
seekers into the "loving, growing family'' 
of the church. 
Reverend Kathryn Reinhard hopes that 
the service targets those who can't find the 
time to worship or who find church intim-
idating. "We get a big mix, a huge range of 
people ... .it's non-threatening, you don't 
have to sit, stand, and kneel, and there's 
no intermediary," she explains. 
"You can go to it as a Christian service if 
you want to, and see it as a place to pray," 
one Compline attendee suggests, "or just 
let it be a time to relax, or meditate, or 
just listen to the music. It really doesn't 
matter if you're atheist, Jewish, Muslim, 
nothing ... nobody will question you about 
why you're there." Still, Reinhard says, "I 
hope they start coming [to Christ Church] 
because of Compline." After the service, 
she teams with Divinity School volunteers 
to serve hot cider to visitors, hoping to 
create a sense of community among the 
group and thus draw them into the Christ 
Church fold. 
The eight Compline singers form their 
own community and call themselves 
"Team Compline." The service is reputed 
as a good singing gig, not least because 
each chorister receives $50 per session. 
Compline chorus alum Lucy Fitz Gibbon 
TD '1 0 calls the service "magical." But un-
like the listeners, her mind cannot wander. 
A "half-hour of intense concentration," 
Fitz Gibbon explains, is required to main-
tain the chant's precision. And with only 
eight singers, one member's slip-up will 
echo loudly through the silent church . 
The chorus is no more religious than 
its audience. Though he sings explicitly 
Christian lyrics, Neil Vasan MED '12, 
an agnostic, enjoys the music. "There are 
mentions of God and stuff like that, but 
it's pretty inviting," he explains. "You don't 
feel like you're being bombarded with oth-
er people's beliefs." 
So, unbombarded, the devout and the 
agnostic share the pews quietly, listening. 
And when Compline ends, it is still Sun"': 
day night. The week is about to start, or it 
has finally ended. There is work to be done. 
Eyes are woozy with darkness, minds lulled 
to sleepiness by the chanting. The singers 
remain immobile in their perch above the 
congregation until they hear the squeak 
of a floorboard or the grind of a chair. At 
the first sign of shifting, Team Compline 
begins to leave. Arid slowly, Fitz Gibbon 
says, "like little bugs out of the woodwork, 
people start trickling out," from the dark 
indoors to the darkness outside. 
-Kate Selker


**All to N Values**
**Author: Kate Lund**
**Page number(s): 9**

Well into the new century, Fair Hope, 
Connecticut appears to be suffering from 
chronic nostalgia for the 1950s. Kids 
play baseball in a vacant lot, their home 
runs dropping into a field of weeds and 
lilacs. The pool hall does good business. 
The church hosts crowd-pleaser mar-
riage ceremonies, the couples posing for 
photographs on steps of well-worn brick. 
Everyone is white; everyone looks happy. 
Except for when the train ruris through, 
the streets are pleasantly quiet. 
Like the other three towns it borders, 
Fair Hope is made up of thirty sections 
each less than thirty inches long. Its · resi-
dents fit on my thumbnail; few buildings -
are taller than my forefinger. Fair Hope 
is an entirely realized world, growing up 
building by building in the basement of 
New Haven's most unlikely miniaturist. 
"This postcard right here is a postea rd of 
a piano factory in Ivoryton, Connecticut," 
Steve Rodgers says, pointing to a yellowed 
print of Fair Hope's real-world inspiration, 
taped beneath its three-dimensional repli-
ca. "I built this in five days during a snow-
storm week, just sat on the couch while my 
wife watched Project Runway. Tim Gunn's 
dope, you know what I mean?" Steve, this 
miniature world's divine creator, is giving 
me a·guided tour of the four fictional towns 
connected by a working railway. He's eager 
to show, though he apologizes for taking 
my time. Not a miniaturist by trade, Steve 
has spent the working half of his 34 years 
in the music industry 
ten years touring 
with his brother, some stints with record 
labels, and a current gig as manager ofThe 
Space, an underage performance venue in 
ffamden. 
But on his off-days, his fictional world 
comes first. "I get really excited, I'll put in a 
fourteen hour day," Steve admits, pointing 
to a grocery store without any right angles. 
"I probably worked three weeks here just 
building that building from scratch." 
c7 get really excited I'll put 
in a fourteen hour day, ~~ Stev_e 
admits~ pointing to a grocery 
store without any right an-
gles. 
Steve is a scavenger. ''I'm a tag sale junk-
ie, like beyond junkie," he confesses. On 
average, he hits 15 sales a week 
garage 
sales, rummage sales, estate sales. After 
an initial learning phase, he stopped us-
ing kits, so he's constantly stockpiling his 
own materials. "Everything that I see, I'm 
always like, how can I use that in the con-
text of a miniature world?" Steve says, tak-
ing me through his diorama. The baseballs 
in the field are cupcake sprinkles; the port 
windows in the shipyard are eyelets from 
childrens' shoes; some of the buildings' 
interior bracing is done with chopsticks. 
Steve's always snatching up cast-offs and 
putting them to use. Out on a walk with 
his five-year-old daughter, he uncovered a 
huge, old railroad sign beneath a rotting 
caboose. The sign now graces the basement 
entry to what Steve calls "Trainworld." · 
"My wife thinks I'm crazy," he laughs. 
"We'll be out in the yard and I'll start kill-
ing our bushes for the sake of making new 
forests in my miniature world." 
On the streets of Fair Hope 
as on the 
streets of New Haven 
fresh paint min-
gles with decay, but in Trainworld, Steve's 
diligence, not nature's entropy, drives dis-
order. "This is alcohol and India ink. Us 
real model-makers use this for weather-
ing," Steve explains as he pours dark liquid 
onto a strip of bass wood. Some buildings 
are peeling, and birds nest on rooftops and 
leave behind their droppings. Red brick is 
scuffed with sidewalk chalk. Days' worth 
of Steve's labor is not even visible. He re-
moves the roof of the church to show me a 
rehearsal for the Christmas pageant taking 
place inside; he stoops down to eye-level to 
peek in through the window of the billiard 
hall, where at a tiny pool table a man is 
poised to hit the eight ball. ·Had Steve not 
pointed it out, I would never have noticed 
that the siding of every four-inch building 
is lined with pinpoint nail holes. 
Steve's attention to detail has paid off, 
earning him something akin to celebrity 
status in the world of miniatures: His cre-
ation was recently photographed for Mod-
el Railroader Magazine. But beyond the 
borders of Fair Hope, Pine Ridge, Tribute, 
and Graylock Falls, Steve couldn't care less 
about exactitude. ''I'm not a meticulous 
person," he insists. "If you look upstairs 
in my dresser, you'll be like 'Woahhh .. .' 
" Nothing about him suggests precision. 
He punctuates his profoundest insights 
with colloquialisms, the backseat of his car 
could host a tag sale, and his hair is get-
9



**Trainworld**
**Author: Kate Lund**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
ting long. But downstairs, in Trainworld, 
Steve taps into a well of superhuman fas-
tidiousness. "I was a Marine cadet for four 
years and I think it taught me some weird 
discipline thing," he says. This value lives 
on as he sits at his basement desk at three 
in the morning, with a beer and an earful 
ofNPR, counting receding windows on a 
black and white postcard with a magnify-
ing glass and a toothpick. 

A couple of times per year, collectors 
and miniaturists put down their magni-
fying glasses to mingle at their grandest 
gathering: .the model railroad convention. 
Steve shows up to a handful of these events, 
mostly to buy material or to sell his surplus 
supplies. He describes the scene as an un-
likely arena for middle-aged machismo·-
balding men in thick glasses dropping 
train jargon, pushing to the front of the 
display room with big expensive cameras 
while their wives wait on benches ringing 
the perimeter. "Every model builder is my 
dad's age. The future does not look hope-
ful," Steve says. The average train guy is 
a retired engineer, a current rail conduc-
tor, or a quarry worker. They tend to be a 
little overweight and a little overpatriotic. 
"I mean, I love the USA, but I'm not go-
ing to wear an American wolf T-shirt and 
be like, 'Heyyy,' you know what I mean?" 

Almost every miniature-builder picked up 
the hobby as an extension of a mechani-
cal vocation. "For a lot of the guys, it's 
all about, 'Hey man, look at my DL109 
New Haven. It's only made from 1949 to 
1950,"' Steve says, referring to a type of 
train. "That's all garbage, I don't like any 
of that stuff." 

Steve isn't in it for the machinery or the 
affirmation of masculinity. For him, the 
heart of this solitary activity is a connec-
tion to people, and he likes nothing better 
than to sit down and talk trains with some 
of the great old-timers. He's in touch with 
a wide network of Midwestern model-
builders and corresponds with an old her-
mit living off the grid in Washington State, 
where he grows a special plant Steve uses 
in his miniature forests. But while Steve 
named his third town Tribute as a nod to 
those who came before him, Trainworld 
honors more than model-railroaders. As 
Steve leads me from building to building, 
he shows me that the real foundation of 
each structure is made not of bass wood 
or chopsticks but of bits and pieces of his 
biography. His uncle spent years invent-
ing a lightweight bike n10del before up-
rooting his family to a cabin in the Blue 
Ridge Mountains; Fair Hope's bike repair 
shop is housed in a wooden A-frame. Steve 
spent his brief stint at a North · Carolina 
boarding school smoking cigarettes in· the 
shadow of a rusting water tower. "I always 
wanted to climb one," he says. In Tribute, 
a line of miniature boys lean over the rail-
ing of a water tower, egging on classmates 
scaling the ladder below. 

But perhaps the story best chronicled in 
the tracks and beams of Train world is the 
narrative of a region's past. "I really love 
the history of New Haven," says · Steve, 
who has lived in the Elm City all his life. 
Pasted on the ceiling is an aging, arm's.:. 
length map of New Haven rail-lines. "See 
that train yard, where the lines all connect? 
1hat's Target," he says. Hunting down in-
spiration and materials brings him out of 
the basement and onto his city's streets. 
Working from a 1908 postcard, he once 
spent an afternoon searching the water-
front at City Point for the exact site of 
19th-century oyster beds. The door of Fair 
Hope's brewery is decorated with an old 
bottle cap he found when. visiting the site 
of the New Haven original. But despite his 
interest in earlier eras, all of Steve's towns 
are frozen sometime between the dawn of 
the railroad revolution and the rise of to-
day's Target. 

Steve does not appe~ to harbor a 1950s 
fetish, however, and upon closer inspec-
tion, his layouts reveal a sense of humor in · 
his approach to picket-fence America. Pine 
Ridge sports a red light district; Greylock 
Falls hosts a chain gang. Boy scouts march 
through a thick forest that obscures a circle 
of drunks and a lady with a shotgun. But 
these details are playful, not cynical; there's 
a beauty to each of these towns, a blessed 
simplicity. This is Steve's parents' era, and 
for him, there's something romantic about 
it. "I kind of wish I was around in, like, 
post-World-War-II America," he says. "I 
feel like there was a lot of hope." 

Only toward the end of my tour of 
Trainworld does Steve remember the train. 
He unwraps a heavy locomotive and at-
taches a string of cars, each one unique. "I 
could have been a hobo, ridden the rails, 
done that whole thing,'' he says, dust-
ing the caboose with a whisk brush. And 
while Steve's no vagrant, his earlier life 
mirrored the mobility of one. Out of high 
school, he and his brother took their band, 
Mighty Purple, on the road 
or, more ap-
propriately, the rails. "I traveled ten years 
of my life solid. Out of the state of Con-
necticut two hundred plus days a year," he 
remembers. His band forwent asphalt for 
crossties, and Steve speaks with nostalgia 
of his train days, of travels up and down 
the coast, from Charlottesville to Boston, 
of being thrown together with strangers 
on fourth-class, 14-hour journeys. Train-
life 
the constant, blurred exposure to 
new landscape, days and nights spent 
swapping stories and smoking out bar car 
windows, always engaged and always tak-
ing in 
suits Steve. But as he neared thir-
ty, he felt the pull from train to town. He 
married, had a kid, and, for the first time, 
became serious about miniatures. 

But when Steve left the bar car for his 
basement, he did not stop watching the 
world and gathering its stories 
he merely 
replaced the blurry view from the window 
of a moving train with the precise inspec-
tion of a magnifying glass: In the steps of 
Fair Hope and the beams of Graylock Falls, 
the narratives ofNew England merge with 
his own story. 

"Let's show · you nighttime," Steve 
says. He hits the lights, cues the locomo-
tive, and sets his timers. At first, nothing 
pierces the darkness save the glow of a lone 
fire in the backwoods of Pine Ridge. But, 
slowly, sounds begin to emerge and over-
lap--cows moo, crickets chirp, twangy 
bluegrass floats from the bandstand. Then, 
one by one, living rooms illuminate, ·light 
floods the pool hall and the rug shop, and 
streedamps flicker and blink to life. Now 
comes the rumble, near-silence cut by a 
crescendoing thunder. The whistle sounds, 
the railroad crossing sign blinks red_, the 
safety gate lowers across the main street. In 
rushes the train 
its lights pass over Fair 
Hope, and in an instant, it is gone. Steve 
rolls up the sleeves of his blue and green 
flannel shirt and leans against the border 
of his miniature world. Five years ag9, he 
would have been on that train, but since 
then, he's realized that a moving life is not 
for him. He doesn't want to hurtle past the 
world's exquisite details. 
-
TN 
Kate Lund is a freshman in Silliman 
College . 


**RADIO ACTIVE**
**Author: Sarah Nutman**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

"You're listening to Poptimism." It's 
just after 7 on a Monday night and Catie 
Gliwa TC '11 is on the air. "Next up, MIA 
with 'Bamboo Banga' and, at risk of losing 
one of my three listeners, Miley Cyrus." As 
the last song fades 
"and I, I can't wait to 
see you again" 
Gliwa returns to the mic. 

"This is WYBC 1349 AM. You just heard 
Miley Cyrus with 'See You Again.' Hor-- -
ace, I hope you're still listening." 

Horace is her boyfriend. 

Gliwa underestimated her listener-
ship (after all, her mom always tunes in 
from Denver, and her co-editors at the 
Yale Daily News decided to play her show 
that night), but probably not by much. 

Although the Yale Broadcasting Com-
pany's 
commercial, 
professionally-run 
FM station ranks among the top three in 
New Haven, its AM student counterpart 
is struggling to find a listener base even 
within Yale's walls. 

But it hasn't always been this way. 
Du.ring World War II, Yale's closed-
circuit station was the university's primary 
news source. With the war came a·paper 
shortage, then paper rationing, which 
made printing a daily newspaper difficult, 
if not unpatriotic. The "Oldest College 
Daily" suspended its production as part of 
the war effort, so Yale Radio stepped in; 
the station upped its programming until, 
November 2008 
under order from the Yale College dean, it 
was broadcasting continuously. 

.. 
C was one of few media 
outlets to broadcast live from 
the New Haven Green on May 
Day 1970> when thousands 
of city residents converged 
to protest the trial of Bobby 
Seale and other members of 
the Black Panther movement. 

The wartime broadcasts coincided with 
the age of President Roosevelt's fireside 
chats, an era when "people would just sit 
down with their radios," Sean Owczarek 
SM '11, incoming general manager of 
YBC, explains. Owczarek, whose shaggy 
curls often fall across his right eye, may be 
just the man to recapture WYBC's once-
sexy reputation. 

He speaks of radio.--
especially Brown Student Radio, the sta-
tion of his childhood with a reverence 
most reserve for deities. He explains that 
Brown's legendary station, though broad-
cast two hundred miles from his home on 
Long Island, convinced him that radio was 
his destined medium. 

And since arriving on campus, he has 
worked to spread his faith in airwaves. 
"The guy came in super-enthusiastic," says 
current general manager Jordan Malter 
PC '09. "Now everyone is feeding off 
that enthusiasm." This zeal radiates from 
Owczarek as he describes the medium's 
heyday 
"the heart of radio" 
with 
something like nostalgia, though neither 
he, nor even his parents, were alive at the 
urn e. 

Ken Devoe SY '69 contends that radio's 
prime both at Yale and beyond 
lasted 
well beyond the war, despite the resump-
tion of the YDN and the proliferation of 
household TVs during the 1950s. Now 
serving on the station's Board of Gover-
nors, Devoe was a member ofWYBC from 
1967 until 1969 and worked in the radio 
industry for twenty years after his time 
at Yale. In the history he tells, Yale radio 
gained popularity within the larger New 
Haven community circa 1968, around the 
same time as the Summer ofLove and the 
legendary Woodstock Music Festival. Mu-
sic made up the bulk of programming by 
this time. "The music started to change," 
explains Devoe. "The stuff you now know 
as classic rock 
the stuff we liked 
was 
cutting edge then. We started playing it 
on the FM and were essentially the only 
station playing it. The listenership outside 


--- Page 12 ---

Yale exploded." 

Until recently, training took 
an entire . semester. A newly-
-t:evised jive-week program is 
m'or,e in line with other schools' 
requirements, but it is still a 
considerably more tedious and 
less hands-on experience. 

The popularity of Yale Radio's music 
programming in the New Haven com-
munity and on campus brought money 
and fame to the station. As a result, other 
WYBC programming, especially the news 
department, flourished. "We did have a bit 
of a presence, staying on top of news and 
controversial issues," remembers Devoe .. 
1he department covered news not only on 
c;ampus but also across the country, inter-
viewing guests at Master's Teas as well as 
broadcasting live from the 1968 Demo-
cratic Convention in Chicago. WYBC was 
ore of few media outlets to broadcast live 
from the New Haven Green on May Day 
1970, when thousands of city residents:-
students and .citizens alike 
converged to 
protest the trial of Bobby Seale and other 
members of the Black Panther movement. 

Through its live coverage of events like 
these demonstrations · and the ensuing 
student protests, WYBC became a forum 
for countercultural expression, for dissent 
against both Yale University and the na-
tion at large. 

THE ZEITGEIST OF the '60s remade radio· . 
and helped to keep it alive during the ear-
ly '70s . . But as the Baby Boomers grew up 
and the national youth culture they had 
created began to dissipate, so the glory . 
days of radio began to wane. Now, in a 
world of iTunes and podcasts, listening 
to music on the radio can feel obsolete. 

So obsolete, in fact, that radios are slowly 
being phased out. Malter himself admits 
that the overwhelming majority ofYalies 
most likely do not own radios. 

Yet while WYBC flounders, many other 
college radio stations have remained in-
credibly successful. Owczarek's beloved 
Brown Student Radio boa.Sts a listenership 
of at least 4,000 per month, and even this 
figure, impressive by Yale Radio standards, 
could be an underestimate due to iT unes 
downloads that the station cannot track. 

Listenership is alluring. Campuses with 
thriving stations like ~rown's boast more 
DJs and more producers; some even have 
talk shows. "I have a lot of friends who 
do college radio who got stcuted bec!).use 
the station was so popular at their school," 
Gliwa explains. 

She cites competitive application pro-
cesses, like the one at the University of 
Chicago, where, according to its. website, 
prospective jockeys must submit a tWo-
hour playlist showcasing "unique and in-
teresting music that wouldn't otherwise be 
heard on commercial radio outlets." 

Once applicants make the cut, they 
fight for airtime. "One of my friends' first 
shifts was 2 to 4 a.m. because they give the 
freshmen the ones no one else wants," says 
Gliwa. That friend DJs at the University of 
Oregon, where radio programming is live 
24 hours a day, seven days ·a week. Even in_ 
the wee hours of Saturday morning, peo-· 
ple call or instant message with requests, a 
phenomenon that rarely occurs at WYBC 
even during primetime. 

The station's chaotic schedules 
"makes it impossible to casu-
ally listen to 
C, " says 
Catie Gliwa TC '11. 

Currently, the Yale station struggles not 
just for listeners but for members. Malter 
considers the low level of student interest 
one of the major problems plaguing the 
station. Many attribute declining mem-
bership to WYBC's move from Hendrie · 
Hall to an off-campus building at Temple 
and Crown Street in 2000. "It's a couple 
of blocks' walk, and I bet we lose a few for 
every block we are from campus," Malter 
says, only half-kidding. The facility's atmo-
sphere may also deter students. The office, 
shared by both the FM and AM teams, 
feels decidedly corporate. Its big leather 
chairs and conference rooms are emphati-
cally unlike a romanticized picture of a 
grungy college radio station, and WYBC 
is no longer "the place to hang out" that 
it was in Devoe's days. Most members 
come in just before their shows and leave 
directly after. While Devoe's closest friends 
are his colleagues from his WYBC days, 
today's station ~acks such a community; 
Gliwa notes that she only knows a couple 
of other DJs, both from connections out-
side ofWYBC. 

Broadcast restrictions may also intimi-
date prospective DJs. The Federal Com-
. munications Commission charges $5,000 



**Title: WYBC: Re-imagining Yale Radio**
**Author: Sarah Nutman**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
for an expletive on the air, and a missed sta-
tion ID at the top of the hour comes with 
a similarly hefty pricetag. The FCC gener-
ally doesn't waste limited resources moni- _ 
toring non-commercial college stations, 
but WYBC, thanks to its commercial FM 
branch, cannot slip through the cracks. 
Since the commercial station is YBC's sole 
source of revenue, its members are wary 
of doing anything that might cost them 
their broadcasting license and participate 
in a grueling training process geared to ad-
hering to FCC regulations. Until recently, 
training took an entire semester. A newly-
revised five-week program is more in line 
with other schools' requirements, but it is 
still a considerably more tedious and less 
hands-on experience. Both in form and 
in content, WYBC has drifted from the 
scrappy reputation of college radio 
and 
also from the spirit that sustains it. -
And without a strong membership base, 
it's hard to generate a listener base. While 
the station currently has about 75 members 
and will probably add a few more after this 
training season, the numbers can be decep-
tive; many of these members don't work 
regularly, making it difficult for WYBC to 
November 2008 
a fill its schedule with original program-
ming. Although the station broadcasts 24 
hours a day, it is only live from 6-11 p.m. 
during the school week, with a couple of 
other shows scattered at other times. An 
autocaster takes over unmanned shifts, but 
the machine's pop-heavy playlist is "not 
~ 
the kind of music the campus would be 
interested in," says Gliwa. 

In an effort to woo and retain members, 
WYBC has sacrificed programming struc-
ture. "We might have a rock show next to 
a sports talk show, back to back with an 
electronic music show," Malter explains. 
Gliwa also decries the chaotic schedule. 
"It makes it impossible to casually listen to 
WYBC," she says. 

BuT A YALE RADIO revival may be drift-
ing on the not-so-distant horizon. The 
answer, like all answers these days, will 
be Google-able. WYBC-X, an internet 
stream, is set to launch in January. The 
X-stream, which Devoe calls "the future 
of radio," will take on the AM station's 
role as an outlet for student broadcasting. 
Although the station currently simul-
casts over the internet, the new stream 
• 
will contain downloadable podcasts of 
archived shows. 
A hockey match isnt the only 
event best appreciated live. A 
Yale broadcaster could have 
captured Grant Park the 
night of November -i or the 
700 Yalies singing wlhe Star-
Spangled Banner~~ early the 
next mornin~ in a way that 
no newspaper reporter could. 
"People will be able to listen on their 
iPhones," says Malter. Or on their com-
puters, iPods, or any other mp3 player. 
The makeover might also render WYBC 
more appealing to would-be members. 
Unlike its AM or FM counterparts, the 
internet stream requires neither broadcast-
quality radio equipment nor strict compli-
ance with FCC mandates. "We can bend 
some of the rules," says Owczarek with a


**Title: BURNING BRIDGES**
**Author: Marissa Grunes**
**Page number(s): 15**

At the end of this past May, with no 
warning, Makana Ellis TD '05 was fired. 
When her supervisor at Yale's Office . of -
New Haven and State Affairs (ONHSA) 
called her in to tell her that her contract 
would not be renewed, she had been 
working for over two and a half years as 
coordinator of the Dixwell-Yale Commu-
nity Learning Center (DYCLC), an initia-
tive that works to bridge the gap between 
Yale and the Elm City. "They told me they 
wanted to take the Center to another level," 
recalls Ellis, "but they never told me prior 
that what we were doing currendy wasn't 
what they were looking for." Ellis describes 
her reaction as one of frustration. "I was 
extremely disappointed, and ... saddened 
by the event. I had definitely planned to 
continue to stay there and work with the 
. . 
youth and members of the community." 

Since opening its doors in Janyary 
2006, the DYCLC has welcomed hun-
dreds of regular members for basketball 
tournaments, after-school programs, and 
classes that range from tax preparation to 
the well-loved line dancing. But iliis se-
mester, ONHSA, fearing that the Center's 
organization had grown too lax, suddenly 
Yale-run community center 
. 
trims its grassroots. 
opted to replace many members of its 
student and volunteer staff with certified 
teachers and educational professionals. 
The resulting controversy has sparked a 
debate about the optimal method of orga-
nizing and running mentoring programs 
in New Haven. Did the free-form, essen-
tially student-run framework employed in-
the Center's original incarnation provide 
enough oversight and structure to improve 
the lives of the city's most under-served 
children? And, on the other hand, does 
the Center's new commitment to profes-
sionalism marginalize the role ofYale stu-
dents, so integral to the Center's goal of 
bridging the gap between the University 
and the city? 
c1ts not just a job for us. » 
-Nora jacobsen SY :110 

TEN YEARS AGO, the Ashmun Street prop-
erty that now houses the DYCLC and the 
Yale Police Department was a "vacant, 
blighted industrial structure," says Mi-
chael Morand '87 DN '93, associate vice 
president for New Haven and State Af-
- . 
fairs. After Yale learned that a hazardous 
waste removal company wanted to buy the 
property "to park industrial equipment," 
the University decided to nab it in the 
hopes of adding "security to the neighbor-
hood." The YPD moved in, followed, in 
January 2006, by the Dixwell-Yale Com-
munity Learning Center. 

As the Center's first coordinator, El-
lis, a New Haven native newly graduated 
-
from Yale, was at first "the only full-time 
person there," she remembers. "It was a 
huge responsibility, especially for some-
one coming straight out of college, but 
I was enthusiastic about it." Even before 
the Center opened, Ellis energetically set 
about creating policies and infrastruc-
ture_by conducting "a lot of door-to-door 
work, handing out surveys, trying to 
see what sorts of programs the Dixwell 
neighborhood would be interested in." 
The community wanted youth programs, 
so the Center opened with. after-school 
and student programs Tuesdays through 
Saturdays, special programs on Sundays 
and Mondays, and a plan for continued 
expansion. Ellis continued to canvas the 
neighborhood and by the end of June had 
15 



**Title: The Dixwell-Yale Community Center**
**Author: Marissa Grunes**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
16 
• 
APPETIZERS 
FULL BAR SERVI"CE 
99 Audubon St 
. 
(203) 789-9800 
www.sweetreliefcafe.com 
signed on over a thousand youth and adult 
members. 

Recognizing the Center's ~nique po-· 
tential to forge relationships between Yale 
students and their younger charges, Ellis 
hired freshman and sophomore interns 
"because I knew they would be there for 
three or four years and have that consis- · 
tency with the students and· establish a 
great relationship with the members." 

The strategy seems to have worked. "It 
was really meaningful," says former intern 
Nora Jacobsen SY '10. "It was not just 
tutoring where you're with the kid for an 
hour and you don't know them.:. this ·was 
such a connection. It was probably the 
only place on the Yale campus where you 
could get something like that, and it was 
'' 
-
amazmg. 

Jeremy Harp TC '10, who played bas-
ketball with the Center's high school stu-
dents, agrees. "I learned so much," he says, 
'~and my views of how to reach older kids 
have changed." Interested in b~coming a 
civil rights attorney or community activ-
ist, Harp discovered the importance of 
sports as an arena "where men and youth 
bond" and where Yale students can teach 
local students ''the importance of educa-
tion." He was shocked by the social and 
psychological division· between his world 
and that of his charges. "I found it amaz-
ing that they live so close physically b1._1t 
they might as well be miles away," he says. 
"The bringing of the two worlds together 
is at the Dixwell Center." 

THROUGH THE DILIGENCE of its staff and 
interns, the DYCLC successfully bridged 
that invisible gulf between Yale and New 
Haven. Adedana Ashebir MC '09 remem-
bers· the mutuality of her experience in-
terning at the Center. "We did our best to 
share what we learned and they returned 
the favor, maybe even two-fold," she says. 
"It's the Dixwell-Yale Center." Each intern 
brought individual skills and interests. 
Ashebir took students to the Yale Uni-
versity Art Gallery and screened Saturday 
movies, and Harp played basketball with 
~e older boys and talked about how gang 
viOlence was affecting their lives. 

One semester, Jacobsen organized a tol-
erance discussion group to which she in-
vited members ofYale's Arab Students As-
sociation and Women's Center. While she 
knows that "you can't completely change 
kids all at once," she did see a tangible im-
pact that she attributed to the steady pres-
ence of the interns. ''A lot of the interns 
worked a lot of hours, and the kids really 
did get to know us, and when you say to 
them that Arabs aren't terrorists, that you 
have to respect homosexuals 
for that to 
come from someone they know is really 
important." 

'1 found it amazing that they 
live so close physically but 
_they might as well be miles 
away ... The bringing o the 
two worlds together is at the 
Dixwell 
Center. " Jeremy 
Harp TC >10 

But despite strong student presence at 
the Center and the emerging coope;a-
tion with various Yale organizations, the 
ONHSA was not satisfied that the Center 
was fulfilling its potential. One problem, 
administrators worried, was discipline. 
Claudia Merson, the Public School Part-
nerships coordinator at the ONHSA, was 
concerned that the interns didn't "know 
what is natt_1ral entropy of children and 
what is disorganized." She cites occasional 
phone calls from parents about bullying 
at the Center, which she said "shouldn't 
even be a possibility." Control was so lax 
that the administration hired a retired po-
lice officer, Charles Barbour, to help keep 
things orderly. 

Ellis had a different take on Barbour's 
presence, remarking that "he was sort of a 
grandfather figure, helped to maintain dis-
cipline and order, helped a lot of students 
with their homework." 

Jacobsen agrees that he was "an excellent 
role model for the kids" who "related to 
them in a positive way." To her, discipline 
wasn't a problem. "Things were never out 
of control," she says. 

WHEN THE INTERNS returned to school 
this fall, they waited for the usual schedul-
ing email from Ellis. It never arrived. After 
a month of radio silence, the ONHSA in-
formed them that they needed to reapply 
for their positions. Merson admits that the 
failure of communication was "1 00 per-
cent my fault, I can own up. 'A piece of it 
was that I don't think any of us understood 
the arrangement the director had with the 
interns; it's the antithesis of everything I've 
encountered in this Office." Merson says 
she had expected interns to reapply on a


--- Page 17 ---

regular basis rather than having their con-
tracts automatically rolled over from year 
to year. 

The change in procedure left many of 
' 
the interns confused and hurt. "We all got 
the vibe that we weren't wanted. Wheth-
. . 
h ' 
I 
" 
er or not t at s true, 
m not sure, says 
Ashebir. Unsure of their positions at the 
Center, former interns began frantically 
searching for other jobs to pay for books 
and to cover fall tuition. 

This frantic · search, Jacobsen explains, 
should have been avoidable. "Part of the 
responsibility ofYale to its students is that 
when they provide this kind of a job, they 
make sure that they deal with the stu-
dents responsibly and riot just as dispos-
able workers who go through here in four 
years," she says. "It's not just a job for us." 

Apart from their sudden unemploy-
ment, the former interns were most trou-
bled by their broken relationships with 
students at the Center. "It doesn't make 
sense for us to break ties with the youth so 
abruptly," Harp says. "I haven't talked with 
any of the kids since I left the Center last 
semester. I can find them on Myspace now 
but that's ·about it, and I've lost touch with 
some of the older kids who I was talking 
with about gangs." 

Claudia Merson, the Public 
School Partnerships coordina-
tor at the ONHSA, was con-
·cerned·that the interns didn't 
"know what is natural en-
tropy of children and what is 
disorganized. " 

When Jacobsen visited the Center ear-
lier this semester, she worried that the stu-
dents she had mentored felt abandoned. 
"There was one kid who was a foster kid 
and it just felt like another person who'd 
gone, that's the impression I got from 
him," she remembers. "I was pretty close 
to him by the end of last year ... It was 
hard, I was coming back from the sum-
mer really looking forward to that." She 
decided to cut contact after this last visit. 
"Some of them have been hurt a lot by 
people who have come in and out of their 
lives," Jacobsen explains. "I don't want to 
·· be one of those people." 

Morand defends the employee turnover 
by emphasizing that Ellis was hired on a 
year-to-year contract 
"which is not un-
usual in the world," he adds. He believes 
that the OHNSA honored both Ellis' con-
tract arid those of the interns, and at least 
one intern was re-accepted to work at the 
Center. 

That leaves at least two former interns 
who were not even granted interviews 
when they reapplied, though one had 
worked at the Center for four semesters 
as well as the summer, and the other had 
averaged fifteen hours a week the previous · 
year. The ONHSA readily admits that it 
mishandled the transition on a personal 
level, and Merson expresses her willing-
ness to help past interns find other posi:.. 
tions in education and service. 

The final decision-making, however, 
rested on Morand, who is quick to empha-
size that "it is important to focus on L in 
[DY] CLC, to structure the place with a fo-
cus on training and education. You might 
call it the education professionalization of 
the Center." Keeping in mind Moran~s 
goal of making the DYCLC "not a drop-
in center but a true learning center," the 
ONHSA decided to seek leadership based 
on professional education experience. 

"We were moving away from a 
student-run place, moving towards profes-
sional educators," Merson says, expressing 
a wish to educate l'\Ot just the Center's kids 
but its student interns. ''As models of an


--- Page 18 ---

excited learner," she continues, students 
interested in a career in education "can 
learn a lot from professional educators." 

The ONHSA is still searching for a per-
manent coordinator to direct the Center, 
but the background of }effie Frazier, the 
current interim director, offers a glimpse 
of the type of leader it· hopes to pursue. 
Morand describes Frazier as a "well-recog-
nized educator" who served as a principal 
in the New Haven School District for 23 
years before retiring from her post at Wex-
ler Grant High School. Frazier "knows the 
neighborhood, knows education," he says, 
and is beginning to create a "networked 
and plugged-in place" that is "part of a 
fabric, an ongoing conversation we have 
with the neighborhood with a focus on 
learning." 

Like its former interns, Frazier recog-
nizes the Center's potential to bring two 
worlds together and has tried to use the 
organization as a vehicle to bring Yale re-
sources to New Haven youth and to al-
low them to discover the neighborhood 
in which many of them have lived their 
whole lives. 

Frazier lowers her already-soft voice to 
an ardent whisper as she relates a trip she 
planned with a group of children from 
the Center. "We were going to the Grove 
Street Cemetery" 
across the street from 
the Center 
"and the kids were complain-
ing that it was too far away. I took them 
outside, and said 'Look! It's right there!' 
They had no idea it was so dose." 

FoR NOW, THE Center is operating with 
slightly scaled-back hours 
the after-
school program ends an hour earlier and 
the calendar shows no regular youth pro-
grams on Saturdays 
and no longer caters 
to students over 13. Ellis, still on the Cen-
ter's mailing list, expressed concern that 
she had not received any publicity materi-
als this semester. But she is trying not to 
look back. While she would like the former 
interns to be able to resume their positions 
at the Center, she herself is thinking of law 
school. An important step she thinks the 
ONHSA could take to avoid misunder-
standings like that which put the interns 
out of work is the formation of a board 
to monitor programming and hiring deci-
sions. The board might include Yale stu-
dents and faculty, she recommends, as well 
as "teachers, principals, police officers, li-
brarians, parents of youth members, and 
even a couple of youth members." 

"1here was one kid who was 
a oster kid and it just elt like 
another person who'd gone, 
that's the impression I got 
from him." 
-Nora jacobsen SY 'J 0 

Much of the infrastructure that Ellis 
constructed, however, lives on, and Fra-
zier counts thirty students enrolled in the 
after-school program, 1 7 of whom attend 
regularly. 

The current interns have started initia-
tives of their own. Some practice music 
with children who are learning to play 
instruments, and Francesca Slade PC '1 0, 
who worked with One Laptop Per Child 
at MIT this summer, has begun teaching 
basic computer programming to stude!ltS 
at the Center. 

All of this comes as good news to the 
interns whose contracts were not renewed 
and whose semesters have been fraught 
with concerns for the Center's well-being. 
"The community needs to move on, these 
kids need to move on, and they need the 
Center," Jacobsen says. Along with Ellis 
and the other former interns, she's not 
protesting. She knows that's the last thing 
the Center needs. 

TN
Marissa Grunes is a junior in 
Saybrook College. 



**Title: he Yale University President's Public Service Fellowship**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
he Yale University President's Public 
-
Service Fellowship seeks outstanding Yale 
undergraduate, graduate and professional 
students to work with organizations that promote 
economic growth, human development, and 
neighborhood vitality in New Haven. 
Fellowship awards range from $3,600 to $6,000 
based on experience, degree pending and weeks 
worked. Fellowship placements range from 8-11 
weeks from the end of May through August. All 
students may apply for placements proposed by 
local non-profit and public sector organizations 
posted on the PPSF website. 
Fo-r more information and application materials, 
log on to the Fellowship website, or contact 
Reggie Solomon at reginald.solomon@yate.edu 
Application Deadline: January 16,2009 


**Title:  Untitled**
**Page number(s): 21**

• 
' 
~ 
o-
" 
0 
'< 
0\1; 
> 
< 



**Title: Yale's Heat**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On a golden day in October in New Ha-
ven, Connecticut, in a tall, old red-brick 
building on Yale's immaculate campus, 
natural. gas combusts at 1 ,200 degrees. 
"Maybe hotter," says Tom Starr, the 
manager of Yale's Central Power Plant. 
Starr leads me up a few metal steps and 
opens a hand-sized hatch on the side of a 
huge, green, insulated-steel box to reveal 
a little window. Inside, the space explodes 
with outlandish purple and yellow flames. 
We're looking at the burner that pro-
vides fuel to the big green box, called a 
boiler. Natural gas burns .to make heat in 
the burner. The heat turns water into steam 
in the boiler. And steam is everything. 
Steam runs all over campus to meet space 
heating and hot water needs. It powers the 
turbines that run steam-driven chillers to 
make chilled water for air conditioning. It 
drives the pumps that push chilled water 
in huge blue pipes from the power plant to 
every corner of campus. It keeps us warm, 
it keeps us cool, it keeps our showers hot 
and our dishes clean and our dining halls 
open, and it protects priceless research by 
maintaining the precise climate conditions 
required in labs on Science Hill. 
Starr explains all of this as we· walk 
through the plant. He speaks with the 
conversational manner of a practiced tour 
guide, casually slipping in technical terms 
just a beat too fast for me, but with the . 
volume of a bullhorn, competing with the 
noise of the plant. It· is a hissing, buzz-
ing, roaring, put-on-your-hard-hat kind 
of noise, slightly different in each part of 
this maze of metal and concrete. My own 
hard hat keeps slipping down my forehead 
and clanking against my safety goggles. 
It's pitiful enough that Starr interrupts his 
well-honed speech to help me adjust the 
hard hat. My eyes and ears must be at their . 
best to take in what so much of the Yale 
community remains blind to. 


"In the commercial side it's 
entirely 
about production_ 
costs. And for the Yale com-
munity it's reliability rst and 
production costs second. , . 
-Tom Starr 

After a few years of working on the 
advocacy side of Yale's commitment to 
sustainability by trying, mostly in vain, 
to pound conservation into student be-
havior 
most recently as the head of the 
energy team in the Yale Student Taskforce 
for Environmental Partnership (STEP) 
I 
have come in search of the commitment 
on the ground. What is it, exactly, that 
we pollution-haters are trying to replace? 
Images of the University's bright future 
hide what could be the strongest potential 
motivation for Yalies to conserve. As Yale 
President Richard Levin hands out glossy 
brochures of greenhouse gas goals to all 
of his official visitors, and as engineering-
ignorant environmentalists like me push 
Yale and its students to achieve these goals, 
the reality stands here: in the 1200° fossil-
fuel flames that continue to power our 
lifestyle. 

IN 200 5, LEVIN announced his much-
touted Greenhouse Gas Reduction Com-
mitment, vowing to reduce Yale's green-
house gas emissions to 10 percent below 
1990 levels (or 43 percent below 2005 
levels) by 2020. Since Levin's announce-
ment, the University has showered anti-
emissions efforts with publicity and funds. 
But the goal has come head-to-head with 
an even more pressing ambition: Yale is ex-
pandening at an unprecedented pace, adding 
more and more energy-intensive square 
footage to its campus. The commitment 
to greenhouse gas reduction is swimming 
upstream, and the current is only growing 
stronger. 

Yet emissions reduction is hidden where 
we might least expect it. Despite the de-
monization of conventional energy pro-
duction, Starr and company quietly wage 
their own battle to cut our carbon. Next 
to the big green box ·stands an even big-
ger gray box: another boiler, but this one 
is different. This cogeneration system, also 
known as combined heat and power, pro-
duces both electricity and steam from the 
same input of fuel 
and, in doing so, cuts 
greenhouse gas emissions drastically. One 
of Central Power Plant's three "cogen" 
units is shut down today for maintenance, 
Starr tells me excitedly, so I will be one of 
the few tourists to see inside a process that 
usually remains invisible. He opens a door 
to reveal the cool interior of the dormant 
cogen and points out a turbine, roughly 
the diameter of a bike wheel. Instead of 
directly powering a boiler, the burning of 
natural gas runs this gas turbine, which 
spins a generator to produce electricity. 
Meanwhile, the gas that powered the tur-
bine still holds energy in the form of heat; 
the gas exhaust is about one thousand de-
grees. Here, the cogen kicks in: The hot 
exhaust is channeled into a boiler to make 
steam. 

At the end of the day, run-
a blue plastic brush 
nzng 
down 15, 000 twenty-foot-
long tubes is, in terms of emis-_ 
sions reduction, one of the best 
things we can do. 

The cogen boiler is no different from 
the conventional boiler in the green box:-
except that it's getting its heat from anoth-
er source. "So the fuel that we burn here, 
we kinda get to use it twice," Starr says. By 
the time the twice-used gas exits the boiler 
and heads up and out of the tall smoke-
stacks, it has lost about 700°, leaving it at a 
modest 300. "We're taking a huge amount 
of thermal energy out of that exhaust gas 
and making something useful out of it," 
Starr boasts. 

Cogen cuts down on both cos_ts and 
emissions. Aside from its double use of 
fuel, the system allows Yale to produce 
much of its own electricity rather than rely 
entirely on the regional electric grid. Each 
of Central Power Plant's three cogenera-
tion units produces about six megawatts 
of electricity. Combined, that's enough to 
power 300,000 standard light bulbs 
or 
to cover about half of the electricity de-
mand in Central's coverage area, which in-
dudes all of Central Campus and Science 
Hill. The remaining half still comes from 
the utility company. By burning relatively 
dean natural gas {with ultra-low-sulfur 
diesel oil for backup), Yale significantly 
improves the environmental profile of its 
grid, which relies in part on highly pol-
luting coal-burning plants. And although 
building a cogeneration facility requires a 
huge investment 
$100 million for the 
Central cogen project 
the system pays 
for itself in less than a decade. 

Cogeneration is one of the cleanest ways 
to burn fossil fuel for power, but in the 
end, it is still burning fossil fuel. Yale these 
does not allow Starr and his colleagues to 
prioritize efficiency and emissions reduc-
tion; trying more experimental dean en-
ergy options takes place outside the plants, 
in settings that hold no risk of upsetting 
Yale's power supply. Yale demands reliabil-
ity, to a much higher standard than that of 
a typical utility. 

Coming from the commercial utility 
business, Starr found Yale "very, very dif-
ferent. In the commercial side it's entirely 
about production costs," he says. "And 
for the Yale community it's reliability first 
and production costs second." The Yale 
plants not only provide comfort but also 
run kitchens, medical facilities, and sci-
ence labs that must maintain standards 
of temperature, humidity, .and ventilation 
both to meet safety regulations and to sus-
tain careers' worth of experiments. Starr 
and his colleagues cringe at the mention 
of "That Day Last January," when a con-
struction accident caused parts of campus 
to lose power. "For an operation like this, 
the total integrated cost isn't just the cost 
of operating and, you know, did you burn 
m·ore or less fuel than you could have," 
Starr says. "The total cost is what hap-
pens if this facility stops operating? What's 
the value of the research work that's lost? 
What's the value of incurring damage to 
buildings? We provide the · only source of 
heat to the Central Campus. So what hap-
pens to the buildings if we're not able to 
provide heat in the dead of winter? There 
is an economic cost to that and it's enor-
mous. It's huge!" 

The big-picture measure of reliability is 
what is called firm capacity; that is, what 
would a plant be able to produce if its 
biggest unit shut down? For steam firm 
capacity, for instance, if Central's biggest 
boiler broke, how much steam would we 
able to produce? And for electricity, how 
much could we produce using cogenera-
tion alone if the grid went out, or, in re-
verse, how much could we take from the 
grid if our cogen shut down? A depend-
able power plant has built-in redundancy, 
with many machines running only to back 
up others. Redundancy not only insures 
against machine failure; it also allows 
workers to regularly shut down one set of 
machines for maintenance while another 
set fills in. 

Yale's cogeneration is not only an envi-
ronmental measure but part of what Starr 
calls the University's "very, very deep in-
vestments in assuring reliability." Yale's co-
gen electricity is cleaner and cheaper than 
the grid, but it is also more reliable. For 
Yale's medical community, with its high 
concentration of research labs and medical 
facilities, the stability of cogenerated elec-
tricity has ' proved a crucial selling point. 
After witnessing a decade of successful 
cogen operation at Central Power Plant, 
its medical campus counterpart, Sterling 
Power Plant, is preparing to install its own, 
IS-megawatt cogen facility. 

Muir learned a valuable les-
son: When the Yale communi-
ty demands energ)'> you make 
it happen 
but it better not 
get zn anyones way. 

Aside from the occasional $1 00-mil-
lion-dollar addition, the day-to-day work 
of assuring reliability consists of checking, 
cleaning, and replacing countless nuts, 
bolts, lights, pipes, and blades. Most of the 
work of running a power plant, Starr says, 
is constant routine maintenance. 

As we talk in Starr's office, which sits 
above the operations at Central Power 
Plant, two men in soot-smeared overalls 
saunter in; they have just cleaned a boiler. 
Starr looks them over. "It's not as clean as 
it should have been based on the looks of 
you, 
"h 
e says. 

One answers, chest thrust out, "It's a 
lot cleaner now, chie£" They launch into 
a discussion about baffie plates and crack 
stoppers. Once Starr is finished interro-
gating the men, he lapses into a thought-
ful pause, .then slips in one last question. 
"Drums looked all right?" "Yeah," one 
man answers, adding slyly, "Other than 
being too small." The other jumps in: 
"Can't imagine 
those holes just keep get-
ting smaller." They all laugh. 

The drums, Starr explains, are the 
round hatches that lead into a boiler. "For 
licensing for the boilers," Starr explains, 
"we're required to do an inspection every 
year. That inspection is very, very invasive. 
Those two guys have just crawled through 
the boiler from one end to the other on 
what's called a fireside, which is where the



**Yale's Power Plants: A Balancing Act of Efficiency and Expansion**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
hot gas is, and then through the headers 
where the steam is actually collected .... So 
anything that could potentially be wrong 
with the boiler is caught with an inspec-
tion like this before it actually manifests · 
itself in a failure of the equipment." 

Down in the plant, Starr displays . evi-
dence of the massive scale of plant main-
tenance. He points out a chiller that is 
opened up for cleaning, a large cylinder 
that contains 15,000 25-foot-long met-
al tubes. The tubes hold water, which is 
chilled by a refrigerant and then shipped 
campus-wide to buildings for air condi-
tioning. But the inside walls of the tubes 
collect deposits, which impede the transfer 
of heat from the water to the refrigerant 
and make the chiller less efficient. Starr 
reaches into a nearby box and picks up a 
stiff, blue, giant-pipe-cleaner of a brush. 
Once a year, workers must run such a 
brush down the entire length of each of the 
15,000 tubes 
twice. And this is just one 
of five chillers in Central Power Plant. 

As the planning begins for the 
two new residential colleges 
and the new School of Man-
agement campus, Downing, 
along with Olmstead and oth-
ers, is pushing for designs that 
will be amenable to installa-
tions like wind turbines. 

Knowing my biases, Starr has shown 
me the chiller cleaning process to teach 
me a lesson. While I'm busy worrying 
that reliability trumps efficiency at Cen-
tral, its engineers see efficiency in every 
detail of the plant, on scales both minute 
and grand. And such an eye to efficiency 
doesn't always clash with the plant's more 
urgent priority of reliability: Sometimes, 
efficiency and reliability work together. At 
the end of the day, running a blue plastic 
brush down 15,000 25-foot-long tubes is, 
in terms of emissions reduction, one of the 
best things we can do. 

As MUCH AS YALE demands of its· power 
plants, it doesn't exactly roll out the red 
carpet for them. At Sterling Power Plant, 
an easy-to-miss complex on Congress Av-
enue, Assistant Manager Jess Muir points 
out a second-story window to a concrete 
lot below. "See that? Underneath there is 
November 2008 
a 3.5-million-gallon tank." The under-
ground tank, once used to store chilled 
water, has stood empty for years and now 
sits beneath a parking lot and a tennis 
court. Soon, the tank will hold two huge 
cogeneration units. Each will produce 7.5 
megawatts of electricity and save 20,000 
metric tons of carbon equivalent a year-
comparable to the emissions of over 3,500 
cars .. 

"Imagine a regular truck container," 
says Muir in his sharp, energetic Scottish 
accent. Each cogen unit is "slightly big-
ger than that. It's basically a jet engine 
in a box." Two jet engines, each in a box, 
all inside a bigger box, underground: It 
sounds potentially disastrous. Extracting 
some of the equipment for repairs, Muir 
admits, could get tricky, but there aren't 
many other potential cogen sites on Yale's 
crowded and ambitiously expanding cam-
pus. Witnessing the efforts needed to get 
permission to raze the tennis court, Muir 
learned a valuable lesson: When the Yale 
community demands energy, you make it 
happen 
but it better not get in anyone's 
way. 

Take, for instance, the new chiller 
plant, now slated for a site in Science Park, 
which will allow the University to more 
than double Central Power Plant's peak air 
conditioning production. Even after the 
project's benefit had been acknowledged, 
it wasn't easy to secure the property. "That 
facility had to compete with a lot of other 
building plans for the site," says Sam Olm-
stead, Yale's head of Utilities Engineering. 
"It's not like we're going to bump a class-
room for a chiller plant. So finding a home 
for it was challenging." Classrooms truinp 
chiller plants, but classrooms also need 
chiller plants. The problem stems partly 
from the limited local space available for 
Yale's Manifest Destiny, and also from an 
attitude that urban planners call, "Not In 
My Back Yard." 

"NIMBYs," scoffs Tom Downing, Yale's 
senior energy engineer. Downing's office, 
cluttered with diagrams of fuel cells, bro-
chures for evacuated solar tubes, and a 
thin-film photovoltaic solar panel leaning 
against one wall, reveals an obsession with 
alternative energy that exceeds his job de-
scription. He directs his NIMBY comment 
toward Yale's reluctance to place wind tur-
bines anywhere visible on its architecw r-
ally finicky campus. The same term applies 
to anything from sewage treatment plants 
to power plants. Everybody needs them, 
but nobody wants to see them. 


--- Page 26 ---


But wind turbines and solar panels, 
both visually iconic clean energy sources, 
should hold the most potential for over-
coming NIMBYism. They are something 
to show off especially considering the 
publicity attached to Levin's greenhouse 
gas commitment, the strategy for which 
emphasizes on-campus renewable energy 
' 
installations. Downing wants to create 
space, both aesthetic and geographic, for 
the projects that Yale theoretically sup-
ports. As the planning begins for the 
two new residential colleges and the new 
School of Management campus, Down-
ing, along with Olmstead and others, 
is pushing for designs that will be ame-
nable to installations like wind turbines. 

Currendy, Downing is in the process of 
installing a series of ten -micro-wind tur-
bines 
the plan for which, after being 
bounced around Science Hill in a game of 
blueprint hot potato, has finally found a 
future home on top of Becton. Not as vis-
ible as Downing would have liked, but it's 
better than nothing. 

But micro-wind turbines won't get Yale 
to its emissions goal any faster than will 
brushing out 15,000 chiller tubes. At one 
kilowatt (that's one-thousandth of a mega-
watt) each, Downing's turbines might 
cover at most 5 percent of Becton's energy 
consumption. As everyone agrees, there is 
no silver bullet, but instead a mix of many 
small solutions that, together, start to add 
up. 

Still, "small" is a relative term. Yale 
could have installed a hundred micro-tur-
bines by now, instead of a barely-approved 
plan for ten. The "no silver bullet" mantra 
serves as a convenient excuse, hiding the 
nagging suspicion that Yale isn't willing to 
make big sacrifices to reduce energy use 
or to rethink the way it consumes and ex-
pands. Is Yale making the changes neces-
sary to reach its celebrated goal? 

"I don't know," Muir responds. "I don't 
see it. All I see is these numbers here." He 
gestures to his computer screen, where an 
endless spreadsheet records Yale's energy 
production data: 6.5 million cubic feet 
of natural gas burned in a single day this 
summer, producing 17 megawatts of elec-
tricity, 17,000 tons of chilled water, and 
5.5 million pounds of steam and that's 
just for Sterling Power Plant. Starr is more 
political than Muir, but no more optimis-
tic. "I don't see any ability to meet needs 
in a non-conventional fashion," he says. 

Starr is overseeing the installation of two 
new conventional boilers at Central Power 


--- Page 27 ---

Plant. As tempted as I am to condemn 
them, there is nothing wrong with the 
boilers themselves. They will be the most 
efficient models around, and, like the new 
Science Park chiller plant, they're wanted 
partly to increase firm capacity. The boilers 
themselves aren't causing Yale's skyrocket-
ing steam consumption; they are only an-
swering it. 

c'My ultimate goal :1:1 Muir 
continues with a frustrated 
yet hopeful smile~ c'would be ... 
to walk out of here~ lock the 
door and say, cYou don& need 
me anymore. ~ I would love 
nothing better than to shut 
down all this polluting equip-
ment. 

All new Yale buildings must now meet 
the widely used LEED standard for sus-
tainable design, but even LEED-certified 
buildings use a substantial amount of 
energy: More development means more 
power plant demand. Planners like Down-
ing and Olmstead must do what they can, 
given the no-arguments-allowed expan-
sion plans that land on their desks. ''All of 
our reductions have to take place agaiQst 
that backdrop," says Olmstead. 

"We're very keenly aware of the energy 
we're producing," Muir laments, "but it's 
our job to produce whatever is needed." 
And Yale needs a lot. "My ultimate goal," 
Muir continues with a frustrated yet hope-
ful smile, "would be ... to walk out of here, 
lock the door and say, 'You don't need me 
anymore.' I would love nothing better 
than to shut down all this polluting equip-
ment. , 

Yale's Utilities and Facilities Depart-
ments claims some of the University's tru-
est believers in reducing emissions. Energy 
professionals, more than anyone, see the 
dirty underbelly of consumption 
and 
the darker side ofYale's obliviousness. 

MurR AND STARR don't just want the Yale 
administration to pay more attention. 
They want individuals to reduce their per-
sonal consumption 
and also to speak up, 
to call out the University when it lapses 
and to push for change. "You see windows 
open during winter, you see windows open 
during summer when you know the air 
conditioning's on 
and it just kills you," 
says Starr. 

The "open windows" refrain, which 
echoes through the ranks of Yale's energy 
engineers, is a criticism more profound 
than it might seem. Open windows are 
both a symptom and a cause of energy-
inefficient buildings. Buildings with an-
tiquated temperature controls or drafty 
windows and doors run heating systems 
unevenly and thus inefficiently; when 
people in the hot parts of a building open 
windows, the building senses colder air 
and responds by pumping in more heat. 
The guilt lies both in the decision to open 
a window and in the failure to demand 
better heating systems in Yale's buildings, 
resulting in what Muir calls "energy pissed 
" 
away. 

"Open windows" is code not for lazi-
ness but for blindness. Because Yalies don't 
see the systems that serve them, they don't 
think of an overheated building as some-
27 



**Title: The Energy Makers and Energy Consumers**
**Author: Amy Fish**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
r 
thing to question. But they do see it as a 
bother. 
. 
Yalies become aware of the 
energy system only when it 
doesn't work for them 
and 
then they utalk back" to the 
system by opening a window. 
Yale's energy makers and en-
ergy consumers . are largely · 
alien to each other. 


Meanwhile, John Higgins is watching 
from the systems side that Yalies do not 
see. Higgins, Yale's Systems Engineer, . 
oversees the programming of the Uni-
versity's increasingly sophisticated HVAC 
(heating, ventilation, and air condition-
ing) climate-control systems, which deter-
mine the flow of steam arid chilled water 
from the power plants to buildings across 
campus. The HVAC systems of separate 
buildings are linked through a web-based 
central computer program called Backnet. 
Higgins opens Backnet and pulls up my 
college, Jonathan Edwards. It's a fairly 
simple diagram showing the flow between 
. • 
\ 
. . . 
\·' 
-: 
··-:----·-·. 
---::.;: 
. ·-· 
--·--
·:0(_--:X~ ·:-::>-.1:_..,: 
-· ... _ -
-
28 
valves, pumps, and heat exchangers in the 
college. "Delta T is twelve degrees," Hig-. 
gins announces with satisfaction, referring 
to the temperature change of the build-
ing's hot water. Then he turns to me to 
make sure: "Is it comfortable?" 


Higgins describes himself as "not a 
rock-the-boat person," which makes him 
well-suited to his job. Like production in 
the power plants, climate control is sup-
posed to be invisible. "HVAC is one· of 
those things · no one ever calls . you up 
and says you're doing a good job. So if you 
don't hear from a building you figure it's 
running pretty well." 


Higgins' assumption is understandable, 
but is it valid? As long as Yale's energy en-
gineers keep doing their job, the enormoq,s 
costs and emissions associated with energy 
consumption will remain invisible to those 
whose behavior determines demand and 
thus dictates the mechanics of building 
control. But how can the mechanics side 
talk back and change this behavior? 


The question points · to a truth that 
echoes in the words of Muir and others: 
while Yale's chiller nibes may be running 
smoothly, the channels of communication 
remain plugged. Most of the time, com-
munication is a one-way st.reet. While in-
side the power plants, Yale's demands ring 
loud and clear, Muir's and Starr's message 
to the Yale community barely makes it past 
the power plant gates. On the other side, 
Yalies become aware of the energy system 
only when it doesn't work for them 
then they ((talk back" to the system by 
opening a window. Yale's energy makers 
and energy consumers are largely alien to 
each other. Someone must bridge the gap 
between them 
and that someone may be 
those who, for now, largely represent the 
problem: Yale's students. 


LAsT YEAR, WITH the help of Bob Ferretti, 
the Education and Outreach Manager at 
the Yale Office of Sustainability and my 
former supervisor,· STEP pushed for mod~ 
est improvements that would bring poten-
tially big energy savings.-Capping the few 
chimneys left open around campus and 
insulating drafty windows and doors are 
the easy measures, the "low-hanging fruit" 
that Yale has yet to pick clean. STEP took 
its case all the way to John Bollier, the 
powerful associate vice president of Facili-
ties. The work paid off. '"We are tightening 
the envelope," Ferretti assures me, and "it 
wouldn't have happened without STEP." 


As part of the team that approached 
Bollier, I was surprised to find that he took 
us seriously. He didn't just humor us. He 
listened intensely to our ideas and, when 
he approved, made things happen. Hav-
ing grown accustomed to a campus where, 
over centuries, tradition has deposited 
resistance to change in every nook and 
cranny of Yale's operations, I thought his 
response something of a miracle. 


Strangely, STEP has been most effec-
tive not in changing student behavior·-
the original goal of group 
but instead 
in changing Yale's mechanical systems. But 
these mechanical changes are themselves a 
form ofbehavioral change 
one that, un-
usually, brings administrators, engineers, 
and students all to the same table. And 
in building these new channels of com-
munications, ·students are proving the 
keystone. Ferretti helped me understand: 
Bollier listened to STEP not because we 
were experts but because we were students, 
talking with him face-to-face. 


Amy Fish, a senior in jonathan 
Edwards College, is a 
managing editor o 
November 2008 


**Title: ERAIDER_ Rediscovering Yale's forgotten Babylonian Collection.**
**Author: Justin Stone**
**Page number(s): 30**

• THE 
RITI 
The largest collection of cuneiform 
day tablets in the Western Hemisphere 
is crannied away in a corner of the third 
floor of Sterling Memorial Library, and 
even though Yale is among the best places 
in the world to study Assyriology, there 
simply are not that many Assyriologists, 
and it shows. When, in early September, 
I first tried to find my way to the Baby-
lonian Collection, neither the attendants 
at Sterling's front desk nor the guard out-
side the Stacks knew where it was, nor is 
its location listed on all of the reference 
. maps in Sterling's nave, and, despite the 
library's otherwise resplendent aesthet-
ics, the empty hallway that led me to The 
Epic of Gilgamesh flaunted only burnt-
out light bulbs and a puddle of pungent 
water courtesy of a corroded bathroom 
pipe whose appearance suggested that it, 
too, was a Mesopotamian relic. Of course 
I startled the curator, Ulla Kasten, when I 
opened the door to the exhibition room 
(''I'm sorry," she said, jumping from her 
desk, "I just wasn't expecting anyone"), 
and of course I surprised her by being 
an English major ("Students of literature 
never remember that literature begins with 
the Sumerians"), and of course I elated her 
when I began to examine a Babylonian 
figurine ("Feel free to read all my labels; 
nobody ever does anyhow"). Of course a 
forgotten civilization would have a forgot-
ten collection. 
30 


The oldest writing in the world is, as far 
as I can tell, exactly like the newest writ-
ing except that it looks sloppier. That's 
partly due to the medium; writing on wet 
clay was an inhere~tly journalistic enter-
prise because, under the Fertile Crescent's 
scorching sun, it wasn't too long before 
that clay began to dry just try chiseling 
a story on a slab of hardened earth with a 
water reed and you'll forgive the Sumer-
ians for not crossing every t. (That said, if 
a scribe made a mistake, he could moisten 
the clay and revise, but this resulted in a 
curious side effect. The most rewritten 
parts of the tablet are also the thinnest-
their clay whittled down from repeated 
washing and writing 
and so we can suss 
out just how persistently an author strove 
to find his mot juste.) In any case, the 
writers of old engaged in the confronta-
tion of challenging ideas, using rhetoric, 
irony, humor, and metaphor in the same 
way we do. Their inventions became our 
conventions. 


Most of the displayable collection sits 
behind glass cases in a rather uninspiring 
room. If not for a pair of elegant window-
panes, one depicting a Babylonian sphinx, 
the other a royal retinue, you might forget 
that the objects on show are very valuable 
and very old. The newest date _from circa 
1 CE, the oldest from 3,000 years earlier. 
Some 40,000 other tablets are hidden 
offstage, in an archive so weighty that its 
floor has been reinforced in concrete. 


One of the larger tablets clamored for 
my attention; it had a yellower tint than 
its compatriots, lustrous and inviting and 
exuding self-confidence. It was an un-
mistakable commodity: the world's first 
recipe. "In some sense, writing developed 
for that recipe," Kasten told me. As vil-
lages grew into towns, and there were too 
many people to know everyone's business, 
the Sumerians developed a basic inethod 
of recording food production: the original 
bookkeeping. Soon, writing expanded be-
yond a mere instrument of tabulation for 
Abednago's sheep and Balthazar's onions. 
No longer content with discussing how 
much food was produced and who had 
it, some savvy scribe decided to explain 
what to do with it. The recipe tablet is 
flanked by other ancient objects: a water 
basin, a rattle, a gameboard, an adoption 
contract, the story of a jealous marriage, 
each and every artifact or panel the result 
of handiwork, each and every handiwork-
er sustained by food, the very food whose 
dissemination was aided by the creation 
of writing and whose preparation was 
abetted by these instructions for making 
pigeon stew." Pigeon stew! "The haute cui-
sine of Mesopotamia," according to the 
curatorial description. Can you imagine 
Sumerian epicureans eking out their liveli-
hoods in pursuit of this ambrosial nectar? 
We can make it, too. Thanks to Kasten's



**Title:  unread labels**
**Author: Justin Stone**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
unread labels, the age of enlightenment is 
upon us all (but forgive the terseness, per-
haps another byproduct of rapidly drying 
clay tablets): 
"Take a pigeon. Split it in half. Also pre-
pare some red meat. Boil water, throw in 
fat, and add herbs and spices ... " 
So our recipes have improved. But the 
idea of a recipe has not changed. 

I see Hammurabi, lying atop 
a bed of virgins and saying 
something like, c1 don't make 
the rules, I just enforce them, " 
before reaching for another 
bowl of pigeon stew. 

Other wonders abound. I was par-
ticularly moved by a tablet describing 
extispicy, the science of interpreting the 
future through the entrails of sacrificed 
animals (a practice which has since become 
illegal, unless you use road kill). Another 
tablet calculates the ratio of the sides of 
an isosceles right triangle, a mathematical 
discovery falsely attributed to the Greeks. 
The formidable stele of the code of King 
Hammurabi, slightly removed from the 
rest of the collection and situated next to a 
stack of tomes that describe the economic 
and social history of the Orient, has a bas-
relief of Hammurabi's encounter with the 
sun god. (Unlike the rest of the collection, 
this stele is just a copy; blame the French.) 

King Hammurabi claimed that his law 
code was divine, which is a magnificent 
self-defense, because even if the laws are 
intensely disagreeable, one cannot shoot 
God's messenger. I see Hammurabi, lying 
atop a bed of virgins and saying something 
like, "I don't make the rules, I just enforce 
them," before reaching for another bowl 
of pigeon stew. 

That God's law is untouchable is not 
the only thing the Babylonians figured 
out first. One tablet is has a selection from 
1he Epic of Gilgamesh, one of the earliest 
poems to feature a god using a flood to 
make a tabula rasa. In this room we have 
divine law, a deluge, a legal precursor to 
the Torah and the Ten Commandments, 
a water laver for ablutions like those de-
scribed in the Hebrew Bible, and, for that 
matter, a description of Mesopotamian 
temples conspicuously similar to the al-
leged form of the one in Ancient Israel. 

I see the religion of my grandparents, 
November 2008 
the creeds and rituals that buoyed them 
through pogroms and wars and depres-
sions and genocides, the all-sustaining be-
liefs shared by their grandparents and by 
their grandparents' grandparents in an ap-
parently unbroken chain for thousands of 
years. I see that the convictions for which 
my faithful ancestors of generations past 
_ would have sacrificed their lives (in def-
erence to the magnificent innovation of 
those wayward Israelites and the infinite 
wisdom of their fetterless God) were actu-
ally convictions that my ancient relatives~ 
probably borrowed from the Babylonians. 

The timeworn foundations ofWestern ju-
risprudence were wrested from unknown 
and unknowable stone slabs that sit idly 
in a nondescript room separated from ev-
ery synagogue and church and courthouse 
proudly displaying the Ten Command-
ments, separated indeed from the world at 
large, by a pool of toilet water. 

Not everyone has forgotten. I have 
gravitated to the collection a few times 
in the two months since I discovered it. 
The water has long since been mopped up 
and most of the light bulbs replaced, but 
I still find myself the only one there, so I 
wonder: How many of Yale's world-class 
resources go unnoticed? This can't be the 
only one. When I go, I always stand before 
a small and fractured stone slab. It is a sort 
of prayer, the label explains, that would 
have been set befo_re the statue of a god: 
"I am a scholar, but whatever I have 
been taught has turned into drivel for me. 
My hand for writing is gone, my mouth is 
not up to discourse. I am not old, but my 
hearing is thick, my look cross-eyed ... " 

It may come as no encouragement that 
educational discontent is as old as educa-
tion. But, I assure you, I have never felt so 
perfectly connected to the course of hu-
man history as when I commiserated with 
that ancient Babylonian. 


-
TN 
. justin Stone is a senior in 
Davenport College. 



**Title: LOOSE FOOTING**
**Author: Sophie Quinton**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

Outdoor enthusiasts struggle for Yale support. 

Ragged Mountain stands in a dramatic 
ridgeline that arcs across Connecticut. 
It offers a long, challenging hiking trail, 
some of the most extensive rock climb-
ing in the state, and a view of the vibrant 
foliage, shimmering lakes, and church 
steeples of rural New England. It seems a 
world away from New · Haven, yet Yalies 
can reach the ridgeline in forty minutes-
if they have a car. This fall, after a failed 
scramble for transportation, the under-
graduate group Yale Outdoors was forced 
to cancel plans for a day hike to Ragged 
Mountain, disappointing the thirteen stu-
dents who had signed up for the trip. Of 
all the forest, trail, and river systems in the 
New Haven area, only East and West Rock 
are accessible by foot, bike, or public bus. 

For undergraduate outdoor organizations, 
most notably Yale Outdoors and the Yale 
Climbing Club, no car means no hike. 

Tired of such let-downs, Eli Bildner DC 
'10, Spencer Gray TC '09, and Bo White 
FES '09 are mobilizing outdoor groups 
and pushing for change. Since outdoor ac-tivities require more funds than the average 
undergrad group, keeping them "separate 
from the central workings of the college is 
not particularly well suited to producing 
good outdoor life," Bildner explains. He, 
Gray, and White 
representing, respec-
tively, Yale Outdoors, the Climbing Club, 
and the Forestry School's . 1 OOo/o Club-
hope to persuade the University to sup-
port the centralization of outdoor life at 
Yale. "Our vision is to have outdoor life 
as a separate program, run out of the Yale 
College Dean's office, with an endowment 
and funding," Bildner explains, outlining 
the ambitious plan with his characteristic 
calm. An umbrella group incorporating 
his, Gray's, and White's clubs as well as the 
popular Freshman Outdoor Orientation 
Trips (FOOT), would facilitate commu-
nication between organizations, increase 
their scope, and allow for a greater empha-
sis on teaching wilderness skills. Ideally, 
the umbrella group would have its own 
space 
perhaps even its own building 
in 
which groups could meet and store their 
gear. This new organization, the three be-
lieve, would reduce trip costs, solve trans-
portation issues, and unify the outdoors 
community on a university-wide level. 


LAcK OF TRANSPORTATION may seem like 
a minor issue, but it presents a formidable 
challenge to Yale's struggling outdoor 
scene. Transportation costs drain the 
fiscal resources of every outdoor-oriented 
organization at Yale. As the University"--
with the exception of community-service-
oriented Dwight Hall 
lacks a fleet of 
vans for student groups to borrow, Yalies 
are often confronted with a dilemma: 
shoulder the costs of renting a van or 
cancel a trip. 

Yalies are often confronted 
with a dilemma: shoulder the 
costs of renting a van -or can-
cel a trip. 

And transportation is only part of the 
problem. Administrators have failed to 
provide storage space, so FOOT is forced 
to stash its gear in the For~stry School's 
basement and Yale Outdoors in the Berke-
ley College music room. Unlike many 
other comparable schools, Yale has no um-
brella organization devoted to supporting 
outdoor activities. To outdoors-minded 
students like White, "it's so obvious that 
THE NEW JOURNAL 

Yale lacks a strong outdoor program." In 
cold, blustery Hanover, Dartmouth boasts 
a centralized, university-supported out-
door education program that has achieved 
national prominence. In urban Boston, 
MIT facilitates outdoor. life through an 
independent non-profit organization that 
offers organized expeditions, educational 
programs, rental vans, and equipment. 
Even universities with less of an outdoor 
focus, like Princeton and Penn, manage 
outdoor life through dedicated offices and 
provide students with space to meet and 
store gear, . while at Yale, transportation 
difficulties are symptomatic of a broad 
lack of institutional support. Like other 
student organizations, outdoors groups 
receive just several hundred dollars of Un-
dergraduate Organizing Funding Commi-
tee funding per year, far too little to fund 
far-away camping trips. 

Many students find this situation par-
ticularly frustrating given the rich natural 
environment just beyond New Haven. 
Yale owns 11,000 acres of New England 
forest which it uses primarily for re-
search purposes, as well as a 1 ,500-acre 
recreational property called the Outdoor 
Education Center, less than an hour away 
and replete with cabins, kayaks, and a 
lifeguard-staffed swimming area. Most 
undergraduates know little about these 
resources since they are not made readily 
available for student use. Yet Yale College 
students have demonstrated their interest 
in outdoor life: Almost one in three Yalies 
chooses to participate in FOOT, one in six 
applies to be a FOOT leader, and there 
are seven hundred names on the Yale Out-
doors Club's panlist. 

"Outdoor activities certainly, without 
question, attract a considerable number 
of our undergraduates," says Edgar Le-
triz, acting dean of Yale College and as-
sistant dean of student affairs. But given 
the outdoor-friendly reputation of schools 
like Dartmouth and MIT, he suspects that 
prospective students who are serious about 
outdoor life might eschew New Haven. 
"The students who want those kind of ex-
periences enroll in [other] institutions," he 
says. But luring this demographic to Yale 
is not at the top of his priority list, and 
he imagines bureaucratic difficulties with 
BUdner's plan. "They are organizations 
involved in physical activities, so it would 
be a proposal best suited to the Athletics 
department," he begins, then rethinks his 
statement. "Although at Yale, athletics is 
really more about teams. It's an odd situ-
ation. They are not the typical social or 
political organizations, they're not teams, 
so where do they fit into the scheme of 
things?" 

Further complicating the situation, Le-
triz explains, since outdoors activities span 
both undergraduate and graduate organi-
zations, "a University effort would have to 
be addressed through every dean of those 
schools." This could take years. 

Dean Letriz suspects that pro-
spective students who are seri-
ous about outdoor life might 
eschew New Haven. ''The stu-
dents who want those kind of 
experiences enroll in [other] 
institutions, "he says. 

FOOT REMAINS an outrageously popular 
program, yet its institutional base is sur-
prisingly flimsy. Unlike Cultural Connec-
tions and the FreshPerson Conference, it 
isn't fully integrated with the Yale College 
dean's office. Other than covering trip 
insurance and helping with budget ac-
counting, the office does little to smooth 
FOOT's path. The program supports 
most of its costs by charging participat-
ing freshmen and manages its lqgistics 
through a corps of student organizers. 
It also relies heavily upon its part-time 
director, Priscilla "Cilia'' Kellert '7 4 FES 
- '81. 

"Cilia is the god of FOOT!" exclaims 
Avani Dholakia TC '09, a former FO·OT 
coordinator. "She holds the glue ofFOO! 
together between leadership, and she's the 
collective memory of the organization." 

Involved since the program's inception, 
Kellert acts as FOOT's alumni database, 
general manager, and collective mother. 
FOOT even owes its storage space at the 
Forestry School to Kellert's husband, a 
Forestry School professor. 

While the umbrella organization that 
Bildner and White envision would ease 
FOOT's dependence upon one individual 
and make It less expensive for its freshmen 
participants, FOOT may prefer to main-
tain its independence. And, according to 
Letriz, the support of a broad-based group 
like FOOT might be just what Bildner 
and White need to get their umbrella 
organization off the ground. In order for 
the University to establish a campus-wide 
Yale Outing Club, he warns, the proposed 
organization would have to be backed by 
a majority of the student body. Outdoors 
groups, he said, must ask ·themselves: "If 
you build it, will they come?'' 


IF THE HISTORy of Yale's Mountaineering 
Group is any guide, says White, then the 
answer is yes. White and Gray have em-
barked on a mission to revive the now-
defunct Mountaineering Club, which they 
hope to endow with an almost academic 
philosophy. ''At one point," White says, 
the club "was the premier mountaineering 
organization in the US." Though the club's 
reputation faded during the 1960s and 
'70s, he explains, the Yale library retains 
its unusually large collection of moun-
taineering literature. In the YMC's glory 
days, mountaineering was an upper-crust 
sport, dominated by men with a surplus 
of money and time; these days, the sport 
is propelled by commercial and star pow-
er, its high-profile participants aiming to 
conquer the highest terrain in the shortest 
period of time. 

The reincarnated Yale Mountaineer-
ing Club, White hopes, would embody 
both the physical and intellectual sides of 
mountaineering. '~The school might think 
it's not academic, but it's not just a sport'--
lifestyle and intellect are involved," he ex-
plains. "Precision, risk assessment, cultural 
sensitivity, conservation, thinking about 
our relationship to the environment, wil-
derness philosophy .. .it can be very intel-
lectual." On expeditions, White insists, 
"we should look at social issues, cultural 
components, and bring back to Yale what 
we've learned." 

This experiential learning is startlingly 
deficient at a university so focused on en-
vironmental sustainability. Armed with 
its high-profile Sustainable Food Project 
and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduc-
tion Commitment, the University has 
hosted state-wide conferences on sustain-
ability and recently sent President Levin 
to Washington to testify before the Senate 
Environment and Public Works Commit-
tee. Yet somehow, amidst all this green, it 
can't seem to muster the resources to send 
a dozen students out on a day hike. 


Sophie Quinton is a junior in 
Trumbull College. 



**Title: FORTUNE TELLERS**
**Author: Laura Zax**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On September 26, 2007, a headshot of 
Yale's chief investment officer and · global 
investment god David Swensen graced 
the New York Times business section, ac-
companying an article about the Yale en-
dowment's 28 percent jump to an unprec-
edented $22 billion. On that same day, 
Washington legislators were also think-
ing about Yale's endowment. In a morn-
ing hearing championed by the Senate 
Finance Committee's Ranking Member, 
Charles Grassley (R-Iowa), a debate about 
college endowments was circling around 
one question: Colleges are earning a lot, 
but are they spending too little of it on fi-
nancial aid for their students? 


The coincidence was not lost on Lynn 
Munson, a critic of college and university 
spending and the hearing's star witness. 
"Despite the fact that that very week the 
Senate Finance Committee, which sets the 
tax policy for the nation, had signaled· a 
strong interest in college university endow-
ments," Munson says, "Yale went ahead 
and came out with particularly prideful 
announcements of its returns. They called 
attention to themselves even as the Fi-
nance Committee was calling these issues 
. 
'' 
mto question. 


There is certainly evidence that Yale is 
proud to be well-endowed. Snoop around 
the Investments Office and you might find 
a plush, stuffed bulldog wearing an already 
outdated Yale blue sweater that reads 
"YALE ENDOWMENT $13 BILLION" 
in stitched white lettering. More recent · 
investment office paraphernalia includes a 
tote bag lined with fabric that states "The 
Yale Endowment $23 Billion October 
2007'' written over and over again in the 
Yale font. 


The bag's lining is loud; the office that 
custom-ordered it isn't. For all of its boast-
ful openness about the market value of 
Yale's endowment, the Investments Office 
is remarkably dose-lipped when it comes 
to disclosing information about its finan-
cial practices. "The Investments Office has 
no comment to offer concerning this sub-
ject," the financial analyst contacted for 
this article emailed. During the full year 
that Jhomas Kaplan, the current editor-
in-chief of the Yale Daily News, covered the 
Investments Office for the paper, Swensen 
did not once respond to Kaplan's requests 
for an interview. Swensen recently visited 
an undergraduate class to speak about 
the endowment in a downward-turning 
economy, but he began by asking that the 
students not talk to their peers about the 
November 2008 
discussion. 


The reticence of the YIO-and of simi-
lar offices at other colleges and 'universi-
ties 
is particularly problematic given 
. their primary argument in the endowment 
spending debate: Endowments are com-
plex and critics are uninformed. Armored 
in expertise, the offices retreat. into a tight-
lipped justification for their tight-pursed 
practices: "Trust us." 


c1 would tuck that informa-
tion away in my head and 
read about the GDP of small 
nations in the morning paper 
and realize that's about the 
size of some school/ endow-
ments. 


-Lynn Munson 


MuNSON, ON THE other hand, is so loqua-
cious that the endowment critic's critics 
accuse her of being a talking head. She first 
became interested in what she calls the 
"endowment hoarding" of some colleges 
and universities while she was serving as 
chief of staff at the National Endowment 
for the Humanities, a federal grant-mak-
ing agency. Reviewing applications for 
fun4ing from . colleges and universities 
across America, Munson was stunned by 
the s_ize of many endowments. "I would 
tuck that · information away in ~y head 
and read about the GDP of small nations 
in the morning paper and realize that's 
about the size of some schools' endow-
, h 
ments, s e says. 


When Munson left her post at NEH to 
start a family, she began to more seriously 
research the endowments at US colleges 
and universities 
schools to which, she 
realized, she might soon be paying tuition. 
Since then she has become something of 
an unofficial expert on the subject and is 
currently an adjunct fellow at the Center 
for College Affordability and Productiv-
• 
lty. 


Bt,J.t Munson is by no means alone in 
her critique. Though she was one of the 
first voices to question the size of college 
and univershy endowments, others 
from 
college alumni to current students, from 
college students' parents to the parents of 
fut;ure college students 
have joined her in 
a debate that has been gaining momentum 
over the past two years. This year, Senator 
Grassley teamed up with Congressman Pe-
ter Wekh (D-Vermont) to draft a proposal 


Drawing by Aimee Marquez. 
"AU the News 
That's Fit to Print" 
VOLCUV..N o 63.0/ 28 
NEW YORK. WEDNESDAY. JANUARY 19. 2000 
Late Edition 
T ... T- f'lnJ) cklUit). t.p S7 TOilllht. 
0111) • (ra douds.. ..,_ 4-l TWiOio. 
~~ .......... ~·-•ee,klp51. 
, .... .... ,. . ........ s 
lufl 4&. ".'cadft 
map i!II•DIO 
ONE.DOLU.R 
A Science Investment For Yale University 
David Swensen calls his running of the Yale endowment a labor of love. During his tenure, it has 
achieved an annual compound growth rate of 16.3 percent. 
Yale University is investing $500 
miJJion in neN science and engineering 
fadlities, induding five neN buildings 
and renovations a old ones. 
Yale's 
to try to bew111e 
more a a Sdeoce and tee t lllOiogy 
the growing 
importance that universities are pladng 
and for its 
schools. 
Universities have been spending 
heavily on fadlities to fi JSter rutting-
edge 
scientific 
but 


for legislation mandating that colleges and 
universities spend a minimum of 5 percent 
of their endowments annually, a figure al-
ready legally required of all non-academic 
non-profits. 


Administrators and Swensephiles for 
the most part dismiss these criticisms as 
ill-informed or simplistic. They empha-
size that institutions of higher education 
already have their own complex, self-im-
posed spending rules 
mathematical for-
mulas that designate what percentage ofits 
endowment a college or university spends 
during a given year. While these models 
differ slightly from school to school, all 
are designed to smooth consumption over 
time so that the university doesn't have a 
drastically irregular budget 
say, a budget 
that osciliates as much as the rate of return 
does 
from year to year. Yale's long-term 
average for endowment spending is 5.25 
percent. But that does not mean that each 
and every year Yale meets the 5 percent 
minimum that members of Congress have 
proposed. Though in years with low re-
turns Yale is likely to spend as much as 5.5 
percent of its endowment, when blessed 
with high returns, it may spend as little as 
4.5 percent. (While half of a percentage 
36 
point may sound negligible, when talking 
about an endowment in the tens of bil-
lions of dollars, even fractions of fractions 
are values worth debating.) Many consid-
erations go into the equation, but one of 
the most important factors is the spending 
rule's ability to self-adjust based on the en-
dowment's past performance in the mar-
ket. "The spending rule is based on sound 
economic analysis. It's mathematical and 
it makes sense," says a current Yale student 
and former YIO intern who wished tore-
rna m anonymous. 


The spending rule requires such delicate 
engineering because it is designed to sus-
tain a college's purchasing power to perpe-
tuity. Since Yale expects to be around in-
definitely, the equation must manage the 
present not only with an informed sense 
of the past but also with a keen eye to the 
future .. The phrase that financial officers 
at universities use to describe this parity 
between present and future is "intergen-
erational equity." A stable endowment en-
sures that scholars in the year 3008 will 
have no fewer opportunities than do their 
2008 counterparts. 


"In general, endowments are biased 
toward future students," says Ken Redd, 
director of research and policy analysis 
for the National Association of College 
and University Business Officers, which 
conducts an annual and highly respected 
study of higher-education endowments in 
which Yale takes part. Redd's tone provides 
no hint of value judgment, either positive 
or negative, on whether such a bias is de-
sirable. "That's a subjective question," he 
says blandly. 


A stable endowment ensures 
that scholars in the year 3008 
will have no fewer opportuni-
ties than do their 2008 coun-
terparts. 


Critics, however, do not avoid the 
subjective, and their opinions are pretty 
transparent. "Where is the line between 
saving up for students of the future and 
asking today's students to make sacrifices 
that are too great and actually kind of de-
prive them?" asks Munson, who believes 
that many institutions of higher education 
in the U.S. have already crossed this line. 
"The policy seems to be more for the sake 
of more," she says, describing a keeping-
up-with-the-Joneses mentality . 


But in addition to the need to stabilize 
spending between the present and the fu-
ture, administrators claim that, even if a 
university wanted to spend much higher 
percentages of its endowment, there are 
a number of factors that limit how much 
the university could spend. Though the 
YIO tote bags boast "$23 billion" in a 
repeating pattern, this number is not the 
whole story. "That's the market value, but 
it's not actually the amount of cash they 
have," explains Redd. On average, about 
a quarter of college and university en-
dowments are invested in illiquid assets 
such as hedge funds, private equities, and 
natural resources, which cannot be sold in 
the open market. Illiquid assets not only 
diversify a university's investment portfo-
lio, they also "prevent raiding the endow-
ment," says Redd. 


Much of the endowment is inaccessible 
for another reason: earmarks. When do-
nors give money to colleges and universi-
ties, they have the option of mandating it 
for a specific purpose. Restrictions range 
from well-known professorships such as 
the Sterling to the endowment for tulips 
at Jonathan Edwards, Yale's wealthiest col-



**The Endowment Debate at Yale**
**Author: Laura Zax**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
lege. However, statistics from the 2007 
NABUCO endowment study show that 
only a little. over half of a school's endow-
ment, on average, is restricted and that of 
those restricted funds, 30 percent are set 
aside for financial aid. "Unless Yale could 
prove to you that they have a higher pro-
portion of the endowment that is restrict-
ed than most institutions of their type, I 
simply wouldn't let them get away with 
that argument," says Munson. 

Yale, she insists, could be more generous 
with its funds even under existing restric-
tions. But Harvard, Princeton, and Yale, 
the Holy Trinity of endowments whose 
piles of treasure stretch closer and closer to 
the heavens, are not the only schools that 
have, in Munson's estimation, reached the 
other side of that intangible line. Nam-
ing names, she points out that not only 
private but also many public schools-
the University of Texas, the University of 
Minnesota 
are guilty of big endowments 
and little spending. Colleges and universi-
ties are nonprofits, but their endowments 
dwarf those of their not-for-profit peers. 
In fact, at least 26 American academic in-
stitutions have endowments larger than 
that of the nation's wealthiest museum, 
the Metropolitan Museum of Art, whose 
endowment sits at $2 billion. 

Professor Douglas Rae, who served in 
New Haven's mayoral office in the early 
'90s and who now teaches courses on capi-
talism and the city, believes that Yale has 
done its duty to its students, its scholars, 
and its city. In his estimation, the Univer- -
sity has already paid the societal dues that 
Munson and friends demand the non-
profit begin to pay. Rae points to the tax 
revenues that Yale, as the largest owner of 
commercial property in New Haven, pays 
to the city, to the financial aid reforms of 
last year, to the institution as an engine 
of employment. "Yale is hands down the 
most beneficial institution in the city," he 
says. 

Restrictions range from well-
known professorships such as 
. . 
the Sterling to the endow-
ment for tulips at jonathan 
Edwards, Yale's wealthiest col-
lege. 

Munson claims that she won't be able 
to assess whether Yale's financial aid re-
November 2008 
forms and contributions to New· Haven 
make up for its tight-fisted endowment ·· 
policies until there is more transparency 
in the financial decisions of institutions of 
higher learning. Currently, schools are not 
obligated to disclose how they spend their 
budgets. "I believe it has really contributed 
to hoarding," says Munson.· Money man-
agement is made further opaque by the 
fact that, at Yale, the Investments Office 
is not obligated to make their investments 
public unless Yale accounts for more than 
50 percent of a company's stockholding. 

Approaching the push for transparency 
from a different side, an undergraduate 
organization called the Yale Responsible 
Endowment Project has created a petition 
to encourage the University to reconsider 
its investments in a hotel management 
company whose labor policies are less than 
praiseworthy. The group is not officially 
recognized by the University. 

Of course, there are other reasons for 
keeping Yale's books under wrap. Because 
the University is a role model in the field 
of investments, other institutions clamor 
for the details of its portfolio so that they 
might mirror it. "If Yale were to disclose 
its investments, we could potentially be 
driven out of our own investments because 
people look up to us," said the former YIO 
• Intern. 

This kind of he-said, she-said debate 
seems to have come to a draw. In the past 
year, many colleges and universities 
Yale 
included 
have drastically revamped and 
greatly improved financial aid packages for 
middle-income families. In concession, 
the other side of the debate has shifted its 
proposed legislation to the backburner. 
After a congressional hearing with univer-
sity administrators on October 8, Senator 
Grassley concluded that he would most 
likely not pursue the 5 percent spending 
rule. 

Grassley's decision was no doubt also 
influenced by the results of September's 
economic downturn. The uncertain future 
against which university administrators 
insist that enormous endowments pro-
tect may have arrived. Fellow Ivies Brown 
and Cornell have instituted hiring freezes 
because of budget concerns. But with a 
minimum 5 percent payout like the one 
Congress proposed, Yale's own endow-
ment 
which garnered only 4.5 percent 
in returns in the declining market 
would 
have shrunk. 

While college administrators point to 
decreased returns as evidence that these 
• 
institutions need to protect themselves 
against an unpredictable future, endow-
ment critics insist that these are precisely 
the conditions that call for universities to 
be generous. "Harvard uses the phrase 'a 
rainy day fund,' but it would have to be 
a rainy day of Biblical proportions," says 
Munson. "There is simply no excuse what-
soever to be sitting on those funds in a 
time like this." 

c'Jf a university could dip into 
its endowment and reward all 
the needy students that need-
ed to be rewarded, eventually 
the endowment would cease 
. ,, 
to exzst. 
-KenRedd 

With both sides claiming the recession 
as proof of their victory, the endowment 
debate has sharpened rather than settled. 
Financial aid, which was always a large 
part of the discussion, is now its core. 
"Students and their families need help,'' 
says Munson. 

Still, though some have suggested that 
schools such as Yale could offer a free ride 
to every member of each incoming class 
merely by spending its endowment returns, 
very few people actually argue that schools 
should pursue such a policy. "If a univer-
sity could dip into its endowment andre-
ward all the needy students that needed to 
be rewarded, eventually the endowment 
would cease to exist," says Redd. 

Translating Lehman's terms to layman's 
terms is not a priority 
at least not for the 
YIO. Perhaps critics of endowment spend-
ing believe that the machinery of college 
and university finances have something to 
hide because financial and administrative 
officials often behave as though there is. 
With this in mind, the use of the word 
"treasure" to describe massive university 
endowments is less hyperbolic than it 
might seem. The money's whereabouts;-
its uses and its potential abuses 
are dis-
concertingly buried. 

TN 
Laura Zax, a junior in 
Silliman College~ is an 
associate editor ofTNJ 



**CLASSIFIEDS, NOV. 5, 2008**
**Author: Liz Deutsch**
**Page number(s): 38**

By Liz Deutsch · 
Conserva-T's Apparel seeks designer for 
retro "There are Republicans in New Eng-
land" fall line. For consideration, please 
submit CV, samples of previous work, 
and proof of NRA membership. 

Republican party see~ trained profes-
sionals for constructing machine to un-
nominate Sarah Palin for Vice President. 
Desired skills include particle physics, 
knowledge of time travel, denial. 

Experienced event planner needed im-
mediately (before ballot-initiative season) _ 
in Massachusetts for stoned gay wedding 
at defunct greyhound track. 

Immediate opening: General Store, Lib-
erty, TX. We are a small, primarily white 
(not racist!), blue-collar community seek-
ing stock manager to handle increased 
demand for the following items: cookie 
dough, Advil, razor blades. 

CNN hologram open casting call. Pho-
togentic, personable. Punditry/Hip-hop/ 
Star Wars background a plus. Telephone 
Obi-Wan for audition. information. 

Wolf Blitzer seeks agent to manage new 
career goals including hosting Rockin' 
New Years Eve with taxidermied Dick 
Clark and killing time in front of giant 
2012 election countdown clock on cable 
news . 

Lighting professionals wanted for new 
live-action Skeletor 1V series featuring 
James Carville in tide role. Experience 
in soft anddim lighting desired to mask 
insect-like on-camera appearance. 

Counselor positions available at New 
Horizons Drug Rehabilitation Center 
due to spike in addictions to powerful, 
mystery drug "Obama-dust." Applicants 
must have experience dealing with bouts 
of euphoria, uncontrollable tears/ chant-
ing, reported feelings of "hope" and belief 
in "change." 

Tina Fey seeks therapist to overcome 
multiple personality disorder. 

Liz Deutsch is a 
sophomore in Morse College. 



**No Title Given**
**Author: Not Given**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:

--- Page 40 ---
