Publication date: October 1978
Volume: twelve
Issue number: one

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editor: Aaron Betsky
- Designer: Mark Sheehan
- Graphics Editor: Karen Sideman
- Managing Editor: Eva Saks
- Publisher: William H. Wood III
- Editorial Staff: Dick Pershan, Lenore Skenazy, Ed Bennett, Judith Spack, Inge Hanson, Jamie Romm, Peter Pokalsky
- Business Staff: Claire LeGross, Ed Bennett, Caroline Mitchell, Jim Clark
- Best friend: Brenda Jubin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- comment: gossip, sweat, rashes. sex and contemplation - Staff
- Saratoga Summers - Staff
- Social Notes II - Staff
- Ask Eva - Staff
- Social Notes I - Staff
- Thumbs up - Inge Hanson
- memoirs of a travelling salesgirl - Staff
- Street Scene - Dick Pershan
- cello suite in B - Staff
- Clift Notes - Margot Chienne
- Monty lives! - Staff
- Medium Cool - Jamie Romm
- t.v. lOS - Staff
- Mixed Media - YYgiS
- Amnican art at Yak - Allan Chong
- The City of Light - Stephen Froot
- (L - Staff
- an American in Paris - Staff


**Title: Some Girls**
**Author: Staff**
**Page number(s): 2**

Still dressed with style, but most 
definitely Up, he was there. Not the 
Desire hat bobbing in the crowd. Not 
the workshirt of the festive blue daze 
jean throng. No, center stage Bobbi 
sports trim black plants with smart 
silver studs lining the leg. The 
matching vest and silk scarf added to 
the air of cool casual elegance: simple, 
stunning and Street-Legal. 

There's a long-time golden-haired stripper 
on stage 
As she winds back the clock, turns back 
the page 
Of a· book nobody can write 
Where are you tonite? 

Not at the concert. Most everybody 
had heard the album on the radio. 
Most nobody wanted to see the show. 
Marie was supposed to see Dylan at 
the Yale Bowl in '66, but he broke his 
neck in the motorcycle accident. She 
remembers it happened the day before 
the show. She smiles when she 
remembers when. She used to rock 
and roll. But since she got married 
she hasn't been to a concert in she 
doesn't remember how long. 

Queen E. Mama Jane, she was 
there, "at Bangladesh." On the scene, 
man. An unbelievable dream. Come 
true? She came onetwothreefour five 
times, justlikethat. Jesus, I couldn't 
believe it. Christ, Dvlan. 

Sue, she stood on line all night long 
for Rolling Thunder Revue. When she 
was drunk, she always used to play 
"Lay Lady, Lay" on the jukebox, but 
Dylan just wrecked it on TV -
what'd he say -
forget this dance, 
let's go upstairs. She still listens to the 
record, though. 

Wendy's boyfriend used to play her 
the records. She never used to listen. 
And ever since she heard Dylan was a 
wife-beater, she hasn't had to at all. 
Not at all. 

WhenEver since: Dylan's defunct. 
shouldafnever/shoulda ... stayed 
Zimmerman, another jew-boy folk-
singer spinster, another dead Tue. nite 
in a dying club: Been makin' records 
with Pete Seeger; Singin's sweet but 
the wages are meager. Yes, in those 
rare sentimental moments·, Seth sits 
the kids, a family fireside chat: Your 
Granpa's seen more than his share of 
hard times, but he stayed true. 
Satiated with dignity, this virtue, kids, 
is humility. Moral: Age graciously. 
Or die young. Alone on a motor-
cycle on page 3. Sex, drugs, lurid 
disillusion. Dire Society, cruel and 
phony, reaps its victim ... Ruthlessly 
honest, apocalyptic" "Pure magic, 
graphic and mythic." Even Bob Dylan 
will pose NAY-KED. Time tested and 
true, it'll sell. 

Julie won't buy it though. She's got 
no bucks. Dylan's got'm all, and he's 
going to Vegas to get more, the 
toothless old whore. 

Why doesn't he retire? 


**Title: Stop, Look Around**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

Freshmen feel it as they step back for 
a few moments to ~bserve their new 
lifestyle with amazement. I expect 
seniors feel it too, probably even more 
frequently, perhaps more deeply. It is 
a love of youth and innocence and the 
love of losing them and learning 
more. 

But why is it that no one sings 
"Bright College Years" without a 
smirk? Why did the Yale men-boys of 
the 90's write sentimental poems 
about their college days while we 
write satire and churlish commentary? 
Ours is an age when all must pass 
too quickly -
the pages of a classic 
which must be read in a week, the 
miles traversed between home and 
school. We have no Yale fence upon 
which to sit and reflect; we congregate 
instead in Machine City where the 
fast food surrounding us encourages 
our haste. Our adjectives are short, 
our exclamations four letter long. We 
form our opinions as hastily as we 
live our lives, and abbreviate our 
personalities on message-printed 
T-shirts. 

The nostalgia Yale men once felt 
lind expressed for their college days -
even while living them -
showed a 
kind of self-awareness. They knew 
they were happy, they knew they 
Joved their esprit de corps, conven-
tions, caps, aspirations, and eloquent 
professors. They savoured Yale and 
youth, while we, busy being busy, do 
not stop to do even that. The chaps 
before sonic booms and renovated 
rooms wrote songs which they 
realized would grow more dear as the 
years passed by and single college 
experiences faaed into a fuzzy picture 
of irresponsibility, camaradeiie, amaze-
ment and health. Today we disparage 
because it's always easiest to criticize 
and because we don't have the time or 
inclination to appreciate all that is 
good. Re-reading our cynicism in 
silver-haired days (should we become 
so sentimental and have a free 
moment to spare), it will probably 
pain us. Nostalgia will teach us what 
we should learn now -
to respect and 
savour the richness of the present. 

These are bright college years with 
pleasures rife, the shortest, gladdest 
years of life. They should not be 
reduced to a frenzy of overnight 
reserve books, overnight relationships, 
and overnight decisions. They are 
years which might be spent in learning 
and loving, and learning from love, 
and loving that learning. 


**Title: The Greatest Gothic Gym**
**Page number(s): 3**

The Payne Whitney gym, which 
usually has the massive look of an 
enormous secret society or a maxi-
mum security prison, takes on a more 
etherial air at night. The statue over 
the archway (of Victory? Payne 
Whitney? Clean Competition?), lit 
from underneath, looks almost alle-
gorical. Above it the tower melts off 
into the darkness and light comes 
softly through the two rose ·windows. 
A few of the wet-haired faithful push 
through the turnstyle and lumber out. 
Inside, the towel person yawns in his 
booth while portraits of decades of 
swim teams, smiling gamely and 
sitting crosslegged, stretch off down 
the hall in both directions. Upstairs 
the air smells of chlorine. A few 
runners walk thoughtfully toward the 
indoor track, past the shadowy polo 
rooms with the padded walls and 
enormous wooden ho~~ A runner 
continued to page 15 


**Title: Saratoga Summers**
**Author: Eva Saks**

A huge, bilious, jolly, stupefied 
"hello" to all .from atop the snowy 
bedsheets of my room. in DUH, where 
at press time I am still on the danger 
list after a deliciously decadent 
summer which left me on the very 
edge of the GRAVE!! (My sternly 
paternal physician has positively 
proscribed sex ·and champagne for the 
time being!) My titillation began in 
June when I was ushered into,the 
seamy enclaves of the CIA, bestowed 
with the onus of a ~ery heavy oath, 
and seated at a desk in a typing pool! 
It stuns, I am sure, to read that I was 
not flung into the very stratospheres 
of top secret espionage -
where I 
could be of some USE -
but they 
seemed to think that my reputation 
shed doubt on my ability to keep a 
secret. Quintessential bunk, I can only 
respond. Besides, they had no idea 
how many secrets I already knew, and 
I've never told a soul about their 
secret plot to buy up Agnew's novel 
and burn it for the energy crisis. What 
would this country be without strong 
national security? I query, and in 
response l can but opine: a fascist 
state. So whatever I on the merry 
wings of caprice may slip and tell you 
about government secrets, reader, 
LET IT GO NO FURTHER. I mean 
it ... anyway, it takes more than an 
IBM Selectric and a pile of boring 
governmental master plans to hold my 
interest, so I skipped out to do a little 
heavy-duty jetsetting on the Con-
tinent -
and I must confess that, 
along with PEOPLE magazine and a 
cast of dozens, I am agitated to the 
farflung horizons of angst about 
Monaco Mugsie (she tolerates my silly 
nicknames) and her new hubby, a 
social climber and a PHONY if ever 
my born days have seen one. I can 
understand how Caroline might turn a 
deaf ear to Princess Grace, the old 
snow queen, but when she won't even 
listen to me -
\vhat's a bosom buddy 
to do? Well, I LEFT- it just wasn't 
fun anymore, you dig? There were 
hundreds of other nearby pieds a terre 
on my master keyring, but Monaco in 
general was death on stilts, and I 
hastened my hejira lest I perish of 
ennui. (I was mere moments from 
rigor mortis when my plane lifteo 
off!) . . . tliere~s been a lot of 
hemming and hawing and foofaraw 
about my admittedly sassy relation-
ship with the upper echelons of the 
Yale administration, but cutting 
through the foggy haze of rumor is 
one mighty beacon of truth: we're like 
this. (I am holding up two crossed 
fingers as I write.) Proof positive of 
my claim is that after my narrow 
escape from M onaco, I passed 
through New Haven for a few days, 
and though it weakens me to think of 
what these two darlins went through 
to get my phone number, I was 
invited to a little impromptu "pass-
the-torch" party with Bart and 
Hanna. Bart was rather quiet and 
reflective -
even took a few notes -
but Hanna, no offense, was a real 
motormouth. She told me how 
excited yet essentially wistful she was 
about leaving Yale to .. wind westward 
to the windy City, the toddlin town, 
show you around ... "We should 
never have started those flaming shots 
of tequila, but what the hell, it was a 
special night. (Bart got a little singed, 
but only because Hanna insisted upon 
acting out the opening of the 
Olympics. What a filly!) Once Hanna 
boldly asserted that she could chug-a-
lug a pitcher of beer. l made the 
mistake of saying "~n not," and she 
retorted "can to," and five minutes 
later I gave in, at the risk of suffering 
a most repetitive evening. Good thing 
I did, too, because she poured it down 
in nothing flat, slamming the pitcher 
on the table with an .. eat your words, 
Summers." (I don't eat my words, 
Hanna, I just record over them.) 
When I asked her where she learned 
to drink a Mastodon under the table, 
she winked conspiratorially at Bart 
and gigg.led, .. Alumni. .. " 

My doubledear friend FEMINIQUE 
FONTAINE (no, wise guys, IT was 
named for HER) has become a rising 
starlet in politics! Knowing how 
starlets rise, I queried as to the 
possible decay of her rather cashmere-
ish moral fibers. She responded, in a 
voice that dripped mink, .. tell your 
readers that any girl who can't buck 
this big w~rld and keep her legs 
crossed should just hang up her silver 
stiletto-heel shoes and quit!~ Very 
stirring, dear, but don't be so hard on 
yourself -
I'm sure Fanne Foxe does 
quite well. 

Wasn't it fun this summer to see 
Yalies just popping up everywhere in 
the media? I think we got more press 
than Harvard, don't you? I mean, 
Vogue, Playboy, Mademoiselle~ I 
almost got one of those fabulous 
Mademoiselle makeovers, except they 
said I wasn't "before" enough. The 
silly flatterers! And I hope you didn't 
miss that engaging passel of Yalies in 
Co-Ed magazine -
the one with 
Donnie and Marie on the cover, in 
case your subscription ran out. I was 
amazed at how effectively their 
thoughts on dating and "relationships" 
catered to the needs of Co-Ed's early 
adolescent readership. This led me to 
suspect that the interviews were either 
exhaustively rewritten or quoted 
verbatim. Indecisions, indecisions! 

My dear dear friend BLOOMSBURY 
spent her summer reading Nancy 
Drew books and Richie Rich comics 
"to help psych myself up for the law 
boards and those oddles of applica-
tions." Good luck, darling -
when 
we're older you can help me sue my 
plastic surgeon . . . speaking of 
lawsuits, I am worrying less about the 
dangers of .. hear-say" these days 
because of a great surveillance device 
I discovered: a delightful gadget called 
a Unibug- a crazy little cutie who 
will travel anywhere -
li~e on some 
cozy comer of that third belt loop -
and transmit your sinful, scandalous 
words across the trembling New 
Haven air and onto the red hot tracks 
of my tape consoles! Even now, 
typists ·are working around the clock, 
transcrib,ing conversation for my 
upcoming book, YALE BABYLON. 

Well, ta-ta everyone- the night 
nurse says .. hi" to all, completely 
unaware that I just slipped a 
Shanghai Special in her Gatorade. I'll 
be out of here sooner than they think, 
and with a tank of anesthesia to carry 
out my newest project, code name . 
Unconscious People Photographed m 
Insinuating Poses. (Nothing succeeds 
like blackmail!) See you in the 
studio -
if my henchmen don't get 
lazy again ... 


**Title: Ask Eva**
**Page number(s): 3-4**

Dear Eva, 
Help! I am an off-campus second-
term senior with a full course load, 
two jobs, and no money. As if that 
weren't enough, I am also a trans-
sexual in love with a dead homo-
sexual actor. What would you do? 
-
M. 

Dear M., 
Come on, everyone has problems 
like yours. If that dead homosexual 
actor of yours knew what was 
happening in MY love life, he'd tum 
over in his grave. If I were in your 
shoes, I'd try wearing bright colors or 
all black. If that doesn't work, come 
up and see me sometime and I'll see 
what I can do, darling. 

I haven't been in Paris long, and 
when I meet a man, I'm always saying 
something wrong; I'm so Marsovian! 
For when a man would wed a girl in 
my own native land, he'll bend and 
kiss her hand. 
A Merry Widow 

Dear Merry, 
Do I hear a waltz? Merry, hand-
kissing went out with the buggy whip. 
Why not try the buggy whip? 

Last week D.U.H!s .. Don't stay 
worried or confused" Department told 
me that I was pregnant. My doctor's 
response was to prescribe .. bed rest, 
plenty of fluids, and two capsules of 
Sudafed every four hours." This 
approach seemed somewhat dated and 
dogmatic, even to a P . .O.R. member 
like myself (also inefficacious). What 
do you suggest? 
Worried and Confused 

Dear Worried And, 
If it's a girl, I suggest .. Margot." 

What to do, what to do. I am the 
rookie head of a prestigious New 
England corporation. Everything is 
going well except for one teensy 
problem. I'm involved in a fund-
raising campaign for my firm, and as 
the deadline approaches we're still 
several million dollars short of the 
target amount. Ideas, Eva? 
P. 
P.S. Already tried a bake sale. 

Dear P., 
You think you have problems 
NOW, wait 'till you fall in love with a 
broke off-campus second-semester-
senior transsexual in love with a dead 
homosexual actor. Then, ASK EVA! 

Send your troubles to: EVA, The New 
Journal, Box 3432, Yale Station, New 
Haven, CT 06520.


**Thumbs Up**
**Author: Inge Hanson**
**Page number(s): 5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The bike I rode was a ten-year-old 
Schwinn with balloon tires and busted 
sprockets. My blue sales case in the 
baby seat behind me jumped up 'and 
whacked me each time my bike hit a 
bump. The wind whipped past my 
ears. The green mountains, white lines 
and smooth farmlands rushed by in a·. 
blur. In was 8:30 in the morning and I 
was barrelling down Rt. 60 through 
West Virginia mountains towards a 
place called Saltrock, where I 
imagined barrel-bellied hillbillies 
would meet me with shotguns. Two 
weeks ago I had been staring at the 
keys of my typewriter at 3:00 in the 
morning, trying to beat out a paper 
on the Hamlet imagery in Ulysses; 
now I was peddling down a mountain 
with 20 pounds of books behind me. I 
wanted the denizens of Saltrock to 
buy them. It was my job, you see. 

I stopped, put my sales case down 
and looked up and down 8th Ave. in 
Saltrock, W.Va., trying to decide 
where to go. The houses were not 
small, but most needed paint. Almost 
every house had a porch with a porch 
swing. Old people rocked slowly back 
and forth on their swings, watching 
life pass by their front walks. Flocks 
of plastic ducks and geese filled their 
yards and pink plastic flamingos 
dipped their heads into plaster bird 
baths. In one of the front yards I saw 
a big wheel. Sounds of cartoons came 
from inside the house. Kids, I 
thought. I picked up my case and 
walked toward the house. It was 
small. The wooden steps were caving 
in and the whole porch sloped to one 
side. A few of the boards on the 
porch were missing and I stepped 
carefully around the holes. Toys, old 
clothes, a rusty bicycle and an ancient 
sewing machine were heaped on the 
porch. A skinny cat with matted hair 
and a bald spot on its head surveyed 
me silently. 
"Hi, kitty." I reached out to pat it 
and it darted under the sewing 
machine. The smell of urine, sweat, 
and children was suffocating. I put 
my case down, stepped back two 
paces, knocked and turned to the side. 
Nothing happened. I knocked again. 
The cat was staring at me from under 
the sewing machine and I purred at it. 
"Hey kitty, you want to buy some 
books, there's some great sections 
on ... " 

The door creaked and I whipped 
around. 
"Hi," I said quickly. "My name's 
Inge. I uh, Inge Hanson ... " I 
couldn't remember what came next. 
"How are you?" 

A red-faced man of about 50 had 
opened the door. Sparse white stubble 
grew in patches on his knobby head. 
Wrinkles cut his forehead into rows of 
arches, making him look extremely 
startled. Two little children by his side 
stared at me. When I smiled at them, 
they darted behind the man's legs and 
clung to his faded overalls. I laughed 
and waved at them, then turned back 
to the man and began again. 
"Hi, my name's Inge, I'm just 
another one of those southwestern 
salesmen, y'all don't shoot them 
around here do you?" The man just 
looked at me. 
"Uh, hi, I'm Inge." 

He stood there. I looked at the 
kids. 
"Hi, you guys, how are you. What 
are your names?" 

They ducked behind their father's 
overalls again. The man opened his 
mouth. 

I smiled encouragingly. 
"Ahoooooooooabooooooeeeeoooo." 
"Uh, huh," I nodded my head. I 
didn't know quite what to do. 
"Is your wife home?" 

The man made a jerky sign with his 
hands. 
"Uh, huh, well, I guess I'd better 
go, nice, uh, meeting you." 

"He can't talk, he's deaf." 

A boy who looked 15 had come up 
the stairs behind me. 
"Oh, I see, what's your name?" 
"Jackie, Jackie Plank. Who're 
you?" 
"I'm Inge." 
"What do you want?" 
"I'm a Southwestern salesman and 
I've been talking to your parents ... " 
"Ooooooaheeeeeeeooooo." 
"Well, it doesn't really matter. 
Jackie, do you know if there are any 
other kids living in this neighborhood?" 
"Yeah, why do you want to know?" 
"I've got to talk with their parents 
about school books and stuff." 
"That what you got in that box 
there?" 
"Uh, huh, dictionaries and other 
books and stuff." 
"Yeah? Well, maybe mom'd be 
interested in them. I done quit school 
last year so I ain't got no use for 
nothing like that." 
"Your mom's home? Is she busy?" 
"Nah, you kin just come on in." 
"O.K." I picked up my case. "You 
guys want to see something really 
neat?" The two kids watched me from 
behind their father's legs. They smiled 
and looked at the ground. "Come and 
look." I said. 

Mr. Plank signaled something to 
Jackie with his hands. 
"Ooooooeeeeeah." 
"Yes, sir," I said. 

Jackie walked into the house and I 
followed him, stepping over a child of 
about two who was asleep on the 
floor. Kids were lying around the TV 
set. Their skin was smeared with dirt 
and magic marker. The stench 
thickened as I made my way after 
Jackie to his mother's room. 
"She's in bed cause she hurt her 
back a few days ago." 

Mrs. Plank's room was about the 
size of a closet. Her bed took up half 
the space and a crib filled the rest of 
the room. Clothes were piled in the 
remaining floor space and hanging 
from the ceiling. Jackie's mom was 
lying on her side in bed. She was very 
fat. I smiled at her. The only words 
that came to my mind were from the 
sales talk. 
"Hi, my name is Inge. I'm just 
another Southwestern salesman. Y'all 
don't shoot ... " 
"Oooooheeeeahoo." She looked at 
Jackie and waved her arms. 

I turned to Jackie. "She can't ... " 
"Mom can't hear neither." 
"Oh, I see, well um ... " 

I didn't know what to do. Should I 
give a sales talk to a deaf lady who 
was lying in bed, in pain, who 
probably didn't have any money? 
Should I leave, or sit, or move or ... 

Mrs. Plank pulled her bulk from 
the edge of the bed, pointed at me 
and slapped the mattress with her 
hand. 
"Ma wants for you to sit down." 

I set my case on the floor and 
looked at Jackie. 
"Go on, get you a seat." I sat on 
the bed. Mrs. Plank patted my leg 
and made a sign with her hand. "She 
says you're pretty," said Jackie. 
"Oh, that's nice. How do you say 
nice?" I asked him. He showed me 
and I made the sign, pointing at his 
mother. She smiled. "Ooooobahbeee." 

"Well, since I'm here I might as 
well show you these books," I reached 
down and opened the case. I thought 
back to sales school: "Be sure all the 
members of the family are present, 
that way you won't have to redemo 
the books several times." 
"Jackie, I'd like to talk with 
everyone here, would it be OK if you 
got your brothers and sisters?" I 
wondered if I should have him get his 
dad. "I guess you could get your Dad 
too, if he wants to come." I was still a 
little unsure as to what Mr. Plank had 
thought of my approach at the door. 

Jackie yelled into the other room in 
the house. 
"I don't like school, I don't want no 
books," came the reply. 
"Tell them it's really good," I said, 
"it'll help them so they won't have to 
take as much time studying." 
"Get in here or I'll beat your brains 
out." 

A few of the kids walked in. 
"Ah, hell, Jackie, I want to watch 
TV." 
"Jimbo!" 

Jimbo walked in slowly, followed 
by the two kids who had met me at 
the door and a few other children. 
There must have been at least six 
altogether. 
"Go git Dad," said Jackie. 

Jimbo stared at me for a few 
seconds, then waited out. He came 
back leading his father. 
"Hi, Mr. Plank." He stuck his hand 
at me and I shook it. We smiled at 
each other. I had the whole family 
around me, just like I was supposed 
to. Now I had to demonstrate the 
books. Oh well, the parents were deaf, 
but they could see. "Let me show you 
this." I reached for the case and 
pulled out the books. "Do you guys 
have problems with math, or English, 
or anything? What do you like best in 
schools? Or what do you hate most?" 

No one said anything. "Over here is 
the math section. It has math done 
the old way and the new way ..... 
continued to page 12 


**Street Scene**
**Author: Dick Pershan**
**Page number(s): 6**

"Get lost, kid," the cop hisses at 
me, clutching his billy club more 
tightly. I'm sitting on a folding chair 
which juts into the path of pedestrian 
traffic at Fifty-third and Fifth. "Sure, 
sir," I answer with mock deference. I 
see his badge: Howells. He stands 
staring down at the wood instrument 
propped between my knees, a $2,000 
Romanian Tiger Cello, on which I'd 
just been playing the prelude to 
Bach's Third Cello Suite ... "Get lost," 
Howells reiterates, brandishing his 
club above the burnt red luster of the 
instrument. I cut short right in the 
middle of a sixteenth note run. Four 
or five pedestrians who have stopped 
to listen disperse, several dropping 
coins (and one a bill) in the large 
green suitcase I use as a till. I 
pack my cello in a canvas carrying 
case, fold up my music stand, and 
throw it into my suitcase along with 
the cardboard sign which has been 
dangling beneath. Staggering under 
the weight of cello, chair, and coin-
logged suitcase, I hide in the ground 
floor maze of a nearby office building. 

Fifteen minutes later the coast is 
clear. I steal back and set up shop. 
My perch is a five-foot-deep alcove 
beneath the silver ceiling of Ted 
Lapidus, a stylish woman's boutique. 
The Lapidus window is a glistening 
expanse of glass and near-sheer metal, 
showcase for leather handbags and 
matching boots, paisley summer 
skirts, a set of women's ties - and 
nebulously reflected in the background 
glimmer, a blond cello player. I face 
out toward the street, impeding 
slightly the flow of pedestrians. In 
going around me, some people drop 
coins in my case. Others kick it. A 
half moon of onlookers surrounds me, 
then disappears. From across the 
street a lanky black man shoots a 
quarter in the direction of my till with 
a one-hand jump shot. He misses and 
a truck prints the image of an eagle in 
the wet tar of 53rd Street. 

Business is bad. Middle-aged 
women eye me askance and their 
children point at me. A dog 
approaches my till with hind leg 
cocked threateningly. An old English 
professor of mine walks past without 
acknowledgment. Down the block 
coins tinkle in a metal bucket. It 
sounds like a cash register gone 
berserk. Sam, a blind Vietnam vet, is 
raking it in with his Nixon imitations. 
The police can't hassle him because 
he's handicapped. I consider trying to 
get certified as blind, nix the idea 
because I wouldn't be able to use my 
music anymore. (Last week Howells 
threatened to take me down to the 
police station for booking. Since then 
I've been calling the station house at 
eight every morning just to find out 
which beat Howells is taking. Once I 
complain anonymously that a certain 
policeman, one Sergeant Howells, is 
abusing some of the local artistes.) 

Moreover, my grandfather's law 
office is just down the street, within 
blushing distance. He's even more 
dedicated to getting rid of me than 
Howells. "Bad advertising," he says. 
"And that picture of you in The Times - 
a lot of people recognized it!" I try to 
hear Bach instead of his words. "What 
are they going to think - your father 
can't feed you?" 

Business finally starts to pick up. A 
pretty blonde girl in sandals and pink 
sun dress regards me with profound 
sympathy ... "The bourée," she says, 
"Bach's Third." I nod, smiling. She 
leans over, leaves two dollars in my 
till, and kisses me with infinite care 
on the forehead. Fifth Avenue smells 
like a sunflower as she disappears, 
Saks-bound. 

Now a gang of Japanese men shows 
up snapping away frantically on 
Nikons. When they're through, they 
reward me with courteous bows, 
coins, and an instamatic shot freshly 
developed. A German youth corps 
replaces the Japanese gang; after the 
tune a blond-haired boy offers me his 
address in Hamburg ... "Bach," he says 
with an almost edible "ch" sound, 
"ach." 

It's around midday in the middle of 
a city summer. The tar is beginning to 
buckle and ooze, leaving a pungent, 
burning odor. A bus honks and I 
realize why car honking doesn't 
bother me but bus honking does: buses 
honk in G, the key I'm playing in. I 
think of ways my music mixes and 
clashes with the pulse of city life. I 
watch the pace of the pedestrians 
who rush past. Quickly. Jauntily. I 
program my tempo to the beat of the 
street. In time. Walking in tune. My 
music, in tune. Listen to the click of 
high-heeled shoes. Use it. My music. 

Somebody gives me an apple. 
Somebody gives me a hot-rock 
sauna coupon. Three visits with any 
of twenty hot rockingly lovely 
Rockettes. Free. 

Somebody gives me a few tokes on 
a jay. My music improves. I 
remember these things. 

A few minutes later a friend arrives 
from Deli City across the street. 
"Here you go," he says, unbagging a 
Coke. I'm still playing when he slips 
the straw into my mouth. It's like a 
freak show - "see the kid slurp 
without missing a beat!" I take a 
break and ask him a favor: "Just keep 
feeding my till with quarters every few 
minutes, and clap profusely each time 
I finish." He does so, tossing coins 
into my till. A friend from school 
shows up and begins pumping my till 
with quarters when anyone's watching, 
taking them out whenever no one's 

It reminds me of the way I once 
worked the Central Park Summer 
Festival with my little sister. For 
Agamemnon she was a five-year-old 
princess in a House of Atreus pose 
looking hungry. Beside her was me, a 
menacing, be-toga'd musician wearing 
a sign: "Don't let this ogre eat his 
daughter, your contribution can feed 
them both." 

A percussive clanging noise rumbles 
down the street. Soon I distinguish 
Indian whoops and drum banging, the 
clink and clatter of cans. My music is 
fractured. It's not worth playing so I 
sit back and resin my bow, listening 
as the noise comes closer. People on 
Fifth Avenue scamper to the fringes 
of the sidewalk to avoid the banging 
and those producing it. It's a troupe 
of nuts, shaven-headed figures with 
pony tails thrusting up solitary from 
the mounds of their skulls like 
unicorns. All of them wear the same 
tan-colored robe, and all are pale as 
the sidewalk. They chant mesmeric 
"Hari, hari, hari" as they go past. 
Each member of the procession drops 
a pamphlet in my till. They march on, 
whooping and banging, as I read one 
of the pamphlets: "Meeting under the 
bridge, Thursday, Love - Hari." 

My till begins to fill up rapidly. I've 
reached the point of satiation, a point 
I reached several days ago when one 
of my street-beggar brethren leered at 
my take in jealousy. "You have so 
much," he muttered almost apologetically 
as he reached into my till. Now he has 
so much. But I learned. I fortify 
myself against future rip-offs. I 
sharpen the point on my end pin. 

Legs is back. That's what I call the 
hooker who works my corner. 
Mounted atop six inches of cork 
platform heels, she looms large and 
leggy, replete with rouge-smeared 
cheeks and a halter top designed not 
to stop. Sometimes Legs works with 
Fingers, the nattily dressed pickpocket 
who carries a fob watch and cane. 
Fingers keeps an eye on everyone who 
takes out a purse or wallet to give me 
a contribution, verifying where the 
money comes from. He watches what 
pockets are involved. Rather than 
making his play right there in front of 
me, Fingers usually trails his victims 
down the street and rolls them at the 
stop-light. Once I tried to tell Howells 
about this co-worker of mine, but he 
just accused me of scape-goating. 
"Punk," he said, and threw me out. 
Now I keep a sign inside my case: 
"Beware Pickpockets - and Police." 

After a time Legs and I strike up a 
conversation and Fingers joins in. I 
get to know them, my neighbors. 
They come by in the morning and ask 
me how I'm feeling, whether I think it 
will rain, what do you call the thing 
I'm playing. They offer me a cut of 
their take, but I decline ... "You're a 
class kid," Legs tells me. 

A fat, affluent-looking man, in a 
fine navy suit, stops me in the middle 
of a largo passage. Pink face 
twitching, he asks me a question. 
"Aren't you my son?" He tries to hug 
me in the middle of Fifth Avenue, in 
the middle of my largo. I free myself 
and point the tip of my bow at him: 
Beware. 

A young woman in black sneaks 
behind me and begins singing a vocal



**Title: Clift Notes**
**Author: Margot Chienne**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Finding Montgomery Clift's modest brown townhouse on East Sixty-first Street is as easy as pie. Getting inside is, however, another matter entirely. The doorbell broke sometime in 1972 or '73 ("About the time Rhoda Morgenstern began losing weight," Monty recalls), and the famous award-winning actor has not yet seen fit to get it repaired. He has spent a long time pondering why this may be so. "It's a kind of passive-aggressive thing," he explains. "I have this basic . . . velleity to call in the electrician, but some kind of unacknowledged ... hostility toward most of the people who call on me, sort of ... it makes me not want to get it fixed badly enough to get it fixed. God-damn! I hope I'm not boring you."

Let it be known that absolutely no one has ever called Monty Clift boring. Neurotic, obsessive, brilliant, catty, generous, reclusive, dead, infantile, a lot of fun, a flibberty-gibbet, a will-of-the-wisp, a clown - yes; boring, no. He has been called other things as well. Louella Parsons once called him "radiantly handsome." Garson Kanin has called him "a beautiful actor, a darling guy, a tragic mess." Kenneth Anger, author of Hollywood Babylon, called him "Princess Tiny Meat." All of which is beside the point.

The point is, the doorbell was broken so I had to stand on the sidewalk yelling "Mr. Clift, Mr. Clift, Mr. Clift!" like a total fool until finally Monty's Filipino houseboy, Raoul, came down to the door to let me in. Sweaty and out of breath, I paused in front of the mirror in the front hall to take inventory of myself. My cream-colored cotton skirt almost but not quite matched my off-white rib-knit wool top, which was almost an exact duplicate of the one Elizabeth Taylor wore when she starred with Monty in George Stevens' A Place in the Sun, right down to the little fluffy round things which cover the whole blouse. My lipstick was still fresh, my nose perky, my eyes positively glittering with belladonna. "Right this way, please," Raoul said in his heavy Filipino accent. I paused a moment longer to adjust my hair, wondering if it looked windswept enough. Raoul leered contemptuously at my reflection. He must have thought I was a transvestite. Or maybe he just doesn't like women.


My first glimpse of Montgomery Clift in the flesh: He is sprawled over one end of a sofa in the middle of his very large, brown, austere living room. A somewhat scratched Ella Fitzgerald record, played quadrophonically, dominates the atmosphere and Monty. He keeps time, badly, with one foot which touches the floor. He sings, flatly, "You make me feel so young, You make me feel so spring-has-sprung. . . . "

At fifty-seven-going-on-fifty-eight (he must be the only adult in the world who gives his age like that), Monty Clift needs to feel young. The boy who wowed the theater world as Henry in the original 1942 production of The Skin of Our Teeth, the young heartthrob for whom Elizabeth Taylor would gladly have given up her eyes and Nicky Hilton, the drunken cripple whose stunning portrayal of a retarded Jewish eunuch in Judgment at Nuremberg moved director Stanley Kramer to tears, is now on the downward slope of life. To be sure, Brando, his rival and imitator, is but a few years younger, but Monty feels ancient, troglodytic, prehistoric by his own terrifying time sense. "Do you realize," he asks me in the course of a conversation, "that two out of three people in this country not only don't remember the Second World War, they don't even know who starred in it?" Monty remembers.

Monty wears his years well. Except for his hair, now grey and thinning, his appearance has not deteriorated noticeably in the last ten or twelve years. By his account, "clean living" gets the credit for his youthful looks. He quit smoking five years ago, has not had a drink since 1966. He quit Demerol the same year, although he still pops "an occasional Percadan, de temps en temps." Both arms still bear faint traces from his shoot-'em-up days, battle scars he displays with all the simple pride of an old salt showing off his tattoos.

"Welcome. Come in. Sit down," he says, stopping once to turn down the volume of the stereo. He paces again, stops again - this time to change the record - and, being an interviewer and all, I decide that it is time to pop the first question.

"Do you think," I ask brightly, "that you'll ever work in film again?"

Unexpectedly, he explodes.
"Film? What is it these days with this 'film' business? Always in the singular. Like it was like working in decoupage or something. In my day we said movies. We knew they were cheap entertainment. No illusions. People in this country are getting as bad as the French, mon vieux."

"Vielle." I cross my shapely legs.
"Whatever. I don't know ... " He sits down on the edge of the sofa, his forearms resting lightly on his knees, then suddenly jumps up again, his arms flailing wildly ... The movies they make these days ... Jee-zus. Like that crazy one about the two hippies on ... the real world isn't like that. And all these James Bond movies. And Last Brando in Paris. He always told me he preferred K-Y. Ha-ha. Joke. And all those horrible Ross Hunter sex comedies. The industry is going to the dogs."


Raoul enters with a Tab for me and a Tab for Monty. He is smirking again. Apparently he has caught Monty in the middle of an old routine, called, perhaps, the "Out-of-it Has-Been Routine." Monty looks embarrassed. He sits down again and says, in a low voice, "No, actually, I do keep up to date with what's going on. I think the general quality is much better today than it was in the fifties."

Another question. "Do you ever watch your old movies on television?"
"Sometimes."

There is a long silence as we both sip thoughtfully. When I am reasonably sure that he is not watching me, I straighten the seams on the back of my stockings. Seamed nylons are very difficult to find these days, but I recently discovered a place in the Village that has all sorts of things that haven't been seen since the Thresher went down for its last. I hope Monty notices.

"No, I'm not really into ... film ... anymore," Monty says. He walks over to the window. His fingers drum lightly against his glass of Tab. He glances at me, working his lower lip in the manner Paul Newman had mastered so well when critics called him "the new Montgomery Clift." He looks out the window again, his profile toward me, eyes narrowed to slits.

"Now I'm into ... video."


Jack Larson, a prize-winning playwright, who played Jimmy Olsen in the old Superman TV series, used to occupy rooms in the top floor of Monty's townhouse. Larson has long since moved back to California, and his old bedroom is now Montgomery Clift's private television studio. Monty has a video cassette recorder, two Porta-paks with cameras, a large color television, a black-and-white monitor, a big studio camera just like the pros use, and lots and lots of studio lights packed into one side of the room. There is very little furniture.

"I haven't been ... idle ... these past few years," Monty says in a Michael Parks monotone. His face brightens. "Would you like to see some of my work?" I say yes, and he says, "Fan-tastic!"

He pulls out a number of tapes from a lopsided stack on the floor and reads the handwritten labels on the side. "Oh, this one is ... good. But that's not the one I'm looking for. No ... no ... I can't find it. Here it is. Fantastic. Let me rig this up. There're some folding chairs over against the ... wall."

"What is it?" I ask, meaning the videotape.
"You'll see. I wrote it myself. It's dramatic: I only do ... dramatic things. It's a short biography of Harry Crosby." Harry Crosby was of course the nephew of J. P. Morgan who shot himself and his girlfriend on a reasonably dark night in 1929.

"Do you play Harry?" I ask.
"Yes. Watch."

We watch for five minutes or so, during which time Harry fights in the Great War, goes to Harvard, and runs off to Paris. Monty stops the tape.
"It's not finished yet. I can't find anyone to play Caresse Crosby. Nancy Walker offered to play Caresse, but I wanted her to play Josephine, the girl who gets shot along with Harry. It's a smaller part, but Nancy's never died on camera before that I know of, and I think it'll be a great opportunity for her."

"Have you got Nancy on tape?"
"Not yet. Except in a Bounty ad and a couple of Rhoda episodes I took off the tube. I'm in one of the Bounty ads, of course."

"I didn't know that."
"You didn't? I thought everyone knew. The one where they say 'But are they strong?' and Nancy says, 'Strong enough to lift these potatoes!' Well, I'm one of the people sitting at the counter, and if you look closely you can see the back of my head over in the left right after she says 'Strong enough to lift these potatoes!' They were very happy to get me for the ad. It was an in-joke on Madison Avenue a couple of years ago that Monty Clift did a paper towel ad. I didn't get any money for it though, I insisted on doing it free, just like Judgment at Nuremberg. Do you think Kathleen Widdoes would make a good Caresse? What has she done lately?"

"I wouldn't know," I reply sweetly.
"But I'd love to play Caresse."
"No, thanks. Thanks but no. You'd make the rest of us look ... old. Youth is wasted on the Jungians."


Monty offers to screen-test me, however. I am to take a sheaf of papers and look disgustedly at them and say, "Poems? Poems? You call these poems? Why, my dog can write better than this and she's only two years old!" We do a couple of takes and watch them on the monitor.

"You're very ... good," Monty says, and I demurely agree. "You remind me of somebody ... somebody special ... I forget just who."


Monty should have had plastic surgery after his face was smashed up in that grotesque auto accident in 1956. But he didn't. Photographs of him from the late 'fifties and early 'sixties show him looking like a wreck, which at the time he was. It isn't easy to go from being the handsomest actor of your generation to being one of the most dissipated-looking. But if the pain and disfigurement steered him ever more resolutely toward the bottle and syringe, his new face, with its vaguely Semitic cast, also enabled him to play roles (in Freud, The Young Lions, and Nuremberg) in which the old Monty would have looked just plain silly.

Had his luck and his health held up, Monty might have matured into a fine character actor, somewhere between Franklin Pangborn and Peter Sellers. (His faggy, mother-fixated bronco-buster in The Misfits is not only a brilliant characterization, it adds some sorely-needed ha-has to that overblown paean to decrepitude.) But then Monty had to contend with the disastrous Freud lawsuit, his addictions, and enough emotional and physical ailments to fill several medical casebooks. He has suffered from severe cataracts, amoebic dysentery, a rare form of calcium deficiency, and a number of other weird chronic things.

"I really don't know why I waited so long to get the old face fixed," he says. "It's like the doorbell. Everything takes such an effort. I knew plenty of plastic surgeons, but I guess I was afraid they'd make me look like Glynis Johns. En fin, I got up the nerve to get myself patched up here and there. Eyes. Nose. Lip. Had the jaw broken and reset. This was during '66 and '67. I didn't look younger at all. I just looked like a decrepit version of my young self. Which is what I wanted, I think."

We are on the sidewalk now, headed toward Monty's favorite Italian restaurant, Galvani's on Third Avenue. It occurs to me when we have walked a couple of blocks that not one passerby has flashed a look of recognition at the famed actor, although several seedy-looking old men have stopped to wish me good evening.

This anonymity of Monty's is a puzzle. I myself would recognize him in a dark alley with a paper bag over his head. Has the public forgotten him?

"No, no, not at all, mon vieux," he says when I ask. "There are two reasons why people don't notice me." He raises two fingers in front of my face and counts off the reasons as we walk. "The first is, I look so much the way I did thirty years ago that people are inclined to think I just look like Montgomery Clift. Cabbie told me yesterday I could be Clift's double if I weren't so skinny.

"And the second reason is that ... many people think I'm dead. Now, this creates some problems. Some years ago I went to the Academy Awards with Warren Beatty to watch him get Best Actor for Bonnie and Clyde. He had come with me the previous year to see me win for Reflections in a Golden Eye, so I was repaying the favor. He picked up his famous smile from me, you know. Or so he says. Anyway, Butch - I call Warren 'Butch' - Butch and I were about to go in and there were all the photographers and so forth around ... We get to the door and they won't let me in without an invitation. So I give my name and this fellow at the door almost swallows his tongue. He says, 'Oh, ho, you canta foola me.' Like Chico Marx. 'Oh, no, you canta foola me. Montgomery Clift, he'sa dead.' They all think I'm dead. Butch patches things up, and they let us both in. Next day there's mention in the trades that some drunk claiming to be 'the late Montgomery Clift' tried to crash the Academy Awards. Earl Wilson, that complete tool, gets that all fucked-up and says that some low type claiming to be 'the late Monty Clift's lover' tried to sneak in, but was detained by the bouncers, with the able assistance of Warren Beatty. Ungotteswillens, Earl Wilson gets everything wrong. Anyway - look out for the car - that's how the rumor that I was dead got started. I'm always getting confused with Robert Montgomery, too. And Cliff Edwards and Clint Eastwood. Can you believe - Clint Eastwood? Well, we both got our start as cowboys."


He squints through his heavy glasses, one eyebrow cocked ironically. I am reminded of his role as the Ivy Leaguish cowboy in Red River. Clint Eastwood does indeed perform rather like a lower-rent version of Monty's Matthew Garth, now that I think on it. Just as Paul Newman took his usual persona from A Place in the Sun and Jack Nicholson's portrayals remind me - de temps en temps, as Monty would say - of Perce Howland in The Misfits.

I mention all this to Monty, who smiles and does a Gertrude Lawrence: "Everyone acts like someone else. It's dreadfully confusing."

While we wait to be seated at Galvani's I add, "In Invasion of the Body Snatchers Kevin McCarthy acted just like you."
"Better quit while you're ahead, mon vieux."
"Vielle."
"Whatever. Hey, I just had a deja vu. I've been waiting in a restaurant with you before, with a guy sitting at the bar just like that one" (he points to a fat man a few paces away) "and you're looking at me with ... a light ... in your eyes and I say, apropos of something or other, 'Better quit while you're ahead,' or somesuch. Have I ever met you before?"

"Yes," is my reply. I've been dying all afternoon and evening to tell him this. "You met me in Stamford, Connecticut, in 1958, when I was four years old."
"Ah, yes, now I remember. You're the one who didn't want to have her picture taken. Do you still hate broken crayons?"
"Uh-huh."
"So do I."


As we finish our antipasto a middle-aged woman in a pink blouse with a Peter Pan collar, a calf-length green plaid pleated skirt, bobby sox, and brown-and-white saddle shoes appears at our table. She is hyperventilating. "Oooh," she squeals, "it's Monty Clift!" She pushes a grimy autograph book in front of us and demands that Monty sign it.
"'For Esmerelda, with all my love,' if you please, Mr. Clift. . . " Esmerelda giggles.

Monty looks very hard at her.
"Montgomery Clift is dead," he says. "Dead, I tell you!"

A bald man with hairs in his nose approaches and takes the woman by the shoulder: "Come, Cosima, come along. You mustn't bother these nice people. Terribly sorry, folks." He raises a crooked finger to tip his hat, only he isn't wearing a hat. Cosima, or Esmerelda, or whatever her name is, runs back to get her autograph book. I have already signed 'Elizabeth Taylor' and Monty has added, below it, "Robert Taylor."

Studio 54 isn't what it used to be, but then, what is these days? Certainly not me, certainly not Monty. In my Place in the Sun outfit I am immediately admitted, and a kind gentleman ahead of me even does me the favor of paying my couvert. I wait for Monty until, some ten or twelve minutes later, he slips in with a crowd of off-Broadway homosexuals.

"Somebody actually recognized me here a year or so ago," he says. "Hey look, there's Dick Van Patten! Hi, Dick. Dick was in The Skin of Our Teeth with me way back when. Hey, Dick, you're lookin' good, I see you lost more weight!" It turns out that it is not Dick Van Patten after all, but that is okay, because whoever it is disappears into the crowd and is never seen again.

"You say you've been recognized here?" I ask.
"Yeah, about a year ago. A foreigner, hadn't heard that I was dead. She worked on the props for Suddenly, Last Summer. Told me I looked better now than I ever had in my life. You'd recognize her name in an instant if I told you who it was."

As he says this, this obnoxious person from my discussion section at college a couple of years ago suddenly bumps into me and begins to coat me with slobbering kisses. "You look fantastic," says the disgusting person.
I grab Monty and tell him I want to go.

We go. The next morning he is reading the New York Gazette, one of the shorter-lived of the papers born of the newspaper strike, when he suddenly looks up at me and says, "You didn't tell me that was Senator Blahblah's son last night at Studio 54. You should have introduced us."
"Why? Is there something about him in the paper?"
"Yes. He was killed in a hit-and-run on CPW right after we saw him."
"I find that very difficult to believe," I say.
"All I know is what I read in the papers. More coffee?"
"Please."


**Title: Mixed Media The Garvan Collection of American Art**
**Author: Allan Chong**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
You can get into culture in many 
different ways at Yale. If you're 
interested in our own culture, you can 
trek up to the third floor of the Art 
Gallery, where the Garvan Collection 
of American Art is housed. Yale 
pioneered the conception of American 
art as multi-media expressions of 
society and class, eschewing the 
traditional European notion that Real 
Art consists of painting and sculpture 
and nothing else. Today the Garvan 
Office (as the ~erican arts office is 
now known), coupled with a new 
research Center for American Art and 
Material Culture, is the only major 
American art institution tied to a 
unive('Sity. 

It was not until 1973 that a proper 
home was found for Yale's vast and 
important collection, when the 3rd 
floor of the old Yale Gallery was 
completely rebuilt to provide new 
office space and exhibition area. 

There is no question that the new 
Garvan Gallery was · both a revolu-
tionary and controversial approach 
to the display of decorative art. 

Museums had previously relied on the 
"period room" -=- historical settings 
for displays of furniture, paintings 
and other paraphenalia. This ap-
proach tends to result in quaint 
approximations of colonial kitchens 
or Federalist drawing rooms scattered 
with whatever historical objects 
happen to be available. In the Garvan 
Galleries individual art items are 
treated as art objects in themselves 
and are isolated from their historical 
settings. The new Garvan galleries 
consist of a maze of stark white 
panels that give the objects an 
abstract setting: chairs and cabinets 
are hung one above another, or are 
turned upside down to facilitate 
viewing of important design charac-
teristics. This deliberately didactic and 
analytic display leaves no room for 
historical atmosphere or ambiance. 

Rather than give the viewer a look 
backward, or gene~te a nostalgia for 
the past (something more effectively 
achieved at a place like Williamsburg, 
Va.), the Garvan installation presents 
American practical arts as creative 
acts, sometimes brilliant, sometimes 
awkward, but always telling. 

In a strange way the Garvan 
Gallery 'approaches practical art in the 
same way Marcel DuChamp and the 
Dadaists did. Everyday household 
objects are divorced from their 
natural settings and functions and are 
made to stand on their own. Where 
DuChamp ennobled a Snow Shovel 
(owned by, Yale) or A Plastic Bottle 
Rack, the Garvan galleries will often 
suspend a table or a cabinet entirely 
in mid-air. In one particular installa-
tion, examples of 20th century chair 
bottoms are arranged in rows like 
Andy Warhol's repeating Marilyn 
Monroe. The 18th and 19th century 
ironwork display is arranged on a 
panel in the same way an antique 
Sears catalog would illustrate the 
same items. This abstractive approach 
is extraordinarily effective if only 
because objects can be seen as designs 
in their own right. 

After five years of operation, the 
effectiveness of this form of presenta-
effectiveness of this form of presenting 
a culture can now be fully under-
stood. There is at least universal 
agreement that the new facility is 
vastly superior to the old one, simply 
because it is much larger. The 
designers, Paul Dietrich of the 
Cambridge Seven and Ivan 
Chermayeff, created new office space 
on a mezzanine to open up 10,000 
square feet of exhibition space. That 
more than 1,500 items -
more than 
twice as many as before -
are now 
displayed means that there is greater 
accessibility of the collections for 
students and scholars. Panels in the 
gallery are set up in diagonal fashion 
and aisles are made narrow to 
increase wall-space. High-technology 
features were incorporated wherever 
possible to save further space; a 
cqmpact electronic ferris-wheel rotates 
America's fmest silver collection at the 
flick of a switch; a large selectibn of 
old American prints is housed in 
convenient pull-out racks; light-
sensitive miniatures are stored in 
special flip-up drawers that light up 
automatically for viewing. 

More importantly perhaps, the 
Garvan gallery fits the needs of a 
university community. Displays are in 
chronological order, with a significant 
amount of wall text to explain various 
styles and periods and to place the 
objects in a historical context. 

Schematic time-charts and illustra-
tions are used whenever appropriate. 

Indeed this didacticism is one of the 
very targets of criticism. Many 
museum scholars resent being hustled 
down one long winding passage 
through the display. But when one 
remembers that most visitors are 
unfamiliar with the details of con-
noisseurship and history concerning 
decorative art objects (especially items 
like silver and furniture), one realizes 
that the museum must provide the 
necessary information. Charles Mont-
gomery, the first curator of the 
collection, sa"W a good museum as 
being something like a good teacher, 
and many of the Garvan Office's 
displays prove his 1>9int. One display 
actually dismembers an early 19th 
century chair in order to illustrate 
details and pro~ses of construction. 

The installers of the galleries tried to 
juxtapose and compare as many 
examples of a particular form as 
possible. Items are set on raised 
platforms or actually hung on walls. 

Thus the case furniture section, for 
example, would trace differences in 
design and function as seen from the 
18th to 19th century, between geo-
graphic areas, or between social 
classes. Comparisons can be made 
immediately in the gallery. If .as a 
the new journal, October 1978 
I 
result the galleries seem crowded, it is 
only because the designers felt that an 
object is more instructive on C:lisplay 
than in storage. 

Mo're than any other individual, 
Prof. Charles Montgomery was 
responsible for this successful center 
for the study of American art at Yale 
University. His tinexpected death this 
past spring has raised ·questions about 
the future of the Garv8 office. There 
is a great fear in the History~ of Art 
department that its faculty in Ameri-
can art will be permanently depleted, 
especially since the loss of Mont-
gomery was compounded by, the 
resignation of American painting 
specialist Ted Stebbins. Part of t~e 
reason for the Garvan Office's 
effectiveness was that many of its 
curators were also mem~rs of the 
university faculty. This is no longer 
true. Moreover there is further 
pressure from many donors Who want 
to see file's traditional strength in 
American decorative arts continued. 

The bulk of Yale's present col-
lection was donated by Francis P. 
Garvan in 1930. It was Garvan•s 
progressive realization that American 
art had to be studied as a mixture of 
media and styles that led to the 
establishment of an institute for 
American practical arts. It was 
Garvan's widow who provided most 
of the funding for the construction of 
the new exhibition galleries. The 
American arts office has been 
particularly active in recent years. The 
Garva~ Office is a healthy part of 
Yale's art institutjon. It is well staffed 
and well financed; there is great 
stUdent interest in the American 
practical arts. It can only be hoped 
that Yale will continue to support and 
facilitate its important cultural study 
center. 


**Title: Medium Cool**
**Author: Jamie Romm**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

NJ: How did you first become 
interested in television? 

Mr. X: Well, it all began when I 
was 3 years old. I went over to the 
TV and turned it on, with no idea of 
what would happen. First it began 
emitting sound, and then images of 
men began to appear -
not only 
men, but also a rabbit, a moose, and 
an enormous clock with eyes on it. I 
now believe this was an early episode 
of "Capta!n Kangaroo." Of course I 
was captivated at once, and spent 
weeks wondering how these men got 
inside the TV, and where they went to 
the bathroom. 

NJ: Yes, but when did you first 
begin to realize the potentials of 
television as a medium? 

Mr. X: I guess it was shortly after 
my fourth birthday that I discovered 
you could change the channels. After 
that I entered a rather impassioned 
period of channel-flipping, paying 
particular attention to the static 
ground in between stations. When I 
was seven, I began exploring the 
picture control dials; horizontal hold 
was a great source of inspiration. 
Three years later my family got a 
color set and I went into a long 
discolo.ration phase, turning the 
people's faces green, pink, purple, and 
so on. At 15 I was tuning in UHF 
stations, and my career was well 
underway. 

IVJ: I see .... 

NJ: Mt. X, you seem to have 
cause9 a great deal of controversy in 
the world of broadcasting -

Mr. X: Controversy, hell. They're 
after my butt·. 

NJ: Er, yes. Well, perhaps you 
could tell us why this is. 

Mr. X: Sure. Be glad to ... . 
Basically I see myself as a Christ-
figure. You- know, martyr for the 
common cause, pioneer of personal 
freedom set upon by repressive 
superstructure, courageous and 
idealistic even in the face of great 
personal risk, that sort of thing. Of 
course, these are all subjective views. 
Still, you've got to admit rm putting 
my neck out on the line, and I don't 
even have a beard to protect it like 
Solzhenitsyn does. 

NJ: Are you comparing yourself to 
Alexandr Solzhenitsyn, the noted 
Russian writer and humanitarian? 

Mr. X: Damn straight I am. Why is 
everyone so awed by him, anyhow? 
He's just a normal guy with a little bit 
of guts who was lucky enough to be 
born in a repressive society. What 
about the rest of us poor slobs? Can 
we help it if our countries don't have 
Siberian work camps? Is that our 
fault? Hell, it's amazing how far you 
have to go to get persecuted these 
days. Just when you think vo11 
finally made it, you look around and 
The New York Times is behind you. 
It's disgusting. 

NJ: Nevertheless, you seem to be 
only too happy to JCeep otsrung tt ouL. 
All ttie programs we watch today are 
just slightly evolved forms of All in 
the Family or Happy Days. 

NJ: How do you explain this 
phenomenon of perpetuation? 

Mr. X: I'm glad you asked that 
question. That relates to a very 
personal theory of mine, developed 
over long years of tremendously 
insightful observation of the broad-
casting world. 

NJ: Would you share this theory 
with the readers of The New Journal? 

Mr. X: I will if you really vfant to 
hear it. But you'd better be sure you 
really want to, because it takes a 
while to explain and I think some of 
it might be over your head. 

NJ: Please, go ahead. 

Mr.- X: All right then. You see, my 
theory is that we've entered a new era 
of programming. About 15 years ago, 
when the sit com developed, it really 
was a situation comedy: that is, it was 
made up of a character or characters 
being placed in ridiculously absurd, 
impossible situations. For instance, 
remember "It's About Time?" About 
the three astronauts who somehow 
landed on prehistoric earth and 
brought back a bllnch of Neander-
thals to the present day? Or how 
about "The Second Hundred Years," 
about the guy whose great-
grandfather comes to life after 
spending a century frozen in a glacier? 
Both are amusing premises, but, 
naturally, ·we know they could never 
happen. The day-to-day experiences 
of a man living with a precocious 
genie, or a secret Martian, or a sea-
captain's ghost, or an automotive 
reincarnation of his mother, may not 
have been very instructive or en-
lightening but at least they bear no 
resemblance to reality. They were 
mere pieces of fluff, elaborately 
reproduced fa.Qtasies, meaningless 
wastes of time. However, among these 
airy tumbleweeds a very dangerous 
seed was talcing root. It was a seed 
that was planted back: in the 
beginning by "I Love Lucy" and 
"Father Knows Best." Then, watered 
by corporate wealth and steeped in 
the manure of Hollywood screen-
writing, it grew up through ••A Family 
Affair,", .. The Dick Van Dyke Show" 
and .. The Brady Bunch." Then 
Norman Lear came along, and the 
.. real-life comedy" was here to stay. 
Oh, sure, we still call them situation 
comedies. But what kind of situations 
do we have now? A man living with 
his family in a duplex in Queens. Two 
women living in a New York 
apartment. A woman living in Tarry-
town. A black family in a housing 
development in Detroit. These shows 
don't get their humor from situation. 
They try to show us how funny the 
experiences of real life are, and how 
funny real people are. In fact the 
characters are so real that people 
begin to see them as friends, or 
neagnoors, mayoe even toven, wuu 
the hell knows. Do you know that 
when CBS killed Henry Blake on 
.. M.A.S.H." there were people who 
put their flags at half-mast? And that 
elementary school children have spent 
weeks under the delusion that they 
were Vinnie Barbarino? And that the 
actresses in "Charlie's Angels" receive 
dozens of marriage proposals each 
week, addressed to their fictional 
character names? We believe in these 
characters, we adopt them for our 
own. More than that we actually 
experience through them. Their prob-
lems are carefully engineered to 
simulate our problems as much as 
possible. We don't just watch these 
shows, we live them. For the space of 
one-half-hour we take our place 
among the Bunkers, the Findlays, the 
Jeffersons, and live our life with a 
laugh track behind it. That's why 
we're so opposed to any form of 
change. Everything is hunky-dory at 
the beginning: all the relationships 
balance perfectly, all the vibes are 
good, everyone's needs are being 
satisfied. Any change that occurs is 
going to make ripples in an otherwise 
clear pool. It makes us feel insecure; 
what is life going to be like without 
Rhoda? Who's going to come in and 
talk to us while we make .dinner? Who 
will we talk to about our problems at 
work and our latest romance? Who 
will be flawed and unhappy enough to 
constantly bolster our ego? What if 
we can't fmd someone? What if Mary 
Richard is left as lonely and bored as 
we are when we watch the lousy 
show? What if she sits down and 
turns on the television? Good God, 
what then? I guarantee there'd be 
breakdowns and suicides all over the 
country the next day. We wouldn't be 
able to take it. If we ourselves can't 
be happy, at least we can be happy as 
Mary Richards. And why shouldn't 
Mary Richards be happy? If some-
thing goes wrong, all she has to do is 
make a joke and hundreds of people 
will laugh. It's guaranteed. Infallible 
ego support. If that laugh track: 
turned on her just once and started 
hissing, she'd fall apart ... anyhow, 
that's my theory. 

NJ: Does this relate to your plans 
fo( TMN-TV? 

Mr. X: Absolutely. 

NJ: What was your intention? 

Mr. X: Well, the danger behind this 
mimetic style of programming, as I 
see it, is that we all begin to dwell in 
these elaborately contrived video-
worlds. We develop little laugh tracks 
in our heads to help us out when we 
can't actually climb into the tube. 
Moreover, things that have been made 
funny on television -
childbeating, 
unwanted pregnancy, old age, homo-
sexuality, crime, delinquency, 
impotence, etc., etc. -can become 
inappropriately funny in real life. 
Little boys are already beating up on 
each other to be like the Fonz, and 
God knows that little girls watching 
TV now are going to grow up with 
neurotic breast anxieties. Our role 
.continued to page J 2 



**Title: The City of Light**
**Author: Stephen Froot**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the new joumal. October 1918 
}The City of Light 
by Stephen Froot 
. Of course,I could always play it safe -
set aside two weeks for foreign tr.avel 
. 
/.. 
and spend the rest of the summer 
earning New York bucks (my usqal 
act). But why play it safe at twenty 
when the stakes are still so low? I 
went abroad for 3 months to seek my 
fortune in Paris, France. 

For an urban freak and a wo~nded 
veteran of high schoo·· French, could 
there really ~ any destination but 
Paris? Apologies to Anglophil~s. but 
London seemed 1oo safe. And besides, 
life in New Haven had already ftlled 
.my quota for constant horizontal 
precipitation. Culture, cuisine, 
costume, and class were attributes 
that fit into. my preconception of 
Paris, the city. But I also remembered 
seeing a TV documentary as a child 
which focused on anti-American 
Freftch attitudes and showed the 
graffiti, "Yankee go home!" chalked 
onto an 18th century Paris wall. 

Then, as now, well-traveled Ameri-
cans insisted on portraying Paris and 
Parisians as the least friendly on the 
continent. 

Gay Paris, a place which has 
traditionally welcomed artists and 
political exiles; an environment 
steeped in history and tradition yet 
the birthplace of the avant garde in 
everything from haute cuisine to 
hemlines. En route from London to 
Paris I had perused a French for 
Travellers paperback so I could look 
for work and ascertain the price of·a 
single room as I waited for my high 
school French to miraculously return. 

My first triumph was the smooth 
execution of the purchase of ten 
Metro tickets. So elated by success at 
such a complicated task, I vowed to 
stutter and fall silent rather than 
speak English (first) to a Parisian. 

Almost without exception Parisians 
responded well to the sound· of their 
own language:·never a nasty "quoi?!?" 
in response to an innocent mispro-
nunciation. Surly fruit marchands 
aside, the Frepch were downright 
friendly. One cold, misty August night 
a. friend ·and I had over a mile to 
wall): from the train station to her 
home .in Marquise, which 'is near 
Boulogne on the Channel. We'd only 
walked a hun(ired yards whe~ a sedan 
stopped on the dar.k' road. A middle-
aged woman, accompanied by her 
young daughter. asked us if we 
wanted a ride. Cest Ia campagne. 

Once a young French· man on a 
mopec;t stopped his vehicle in busy 
Paris traffic to give me directions to a 
restaurant. I hadn't signalled at all; he 
just noticed my exasperated 
countenance as I misread my map. 
Cest Ia ville. 

In the second week of my Paris 
sojourn, I met an elderly MoroCcan 
man. He invited me to take mint .tea 
with his family. In a moment of 
extemporaneous articulateness on our 
way to his home, I told him I came 
across the Atlantic to discover the Old 
World. He repeated the phrase several 
times to his family during our tea. 

Many Americans travelling in Europe 
get the feeling that by communing 
with the Continent they can reach 
beyond television, steel, cowboys, the 
frontier, and Williamsburg, Virginia, 
to recapture the European roots of 
our nation's past. 

For reasons unknown, the four 
American things most important to 
the French are UCLA (or oochlah, as 
they call it), New York City, Fruit of 
the Loom T-shirts, and California, in 
that order. 

In the pouring rain around noon-
time one weekday I caught a glimpse 
of about eight construction workers 
eating lunch inside the back of a 
covered truck. They ~at around a 
table-covered with a table cloth and 
abundantly spread with food and 
wine. 

I saw the French way of life as 
more relaxed and refined than the 
AmeFican existence -
aperitifs and 
hors d'oeuvres before a meal, classical 
music with their ftreworks display on 
Bastille Day. The French, however, 
see themselves as mired in tradition 
and rigid forms. To them America 
was a place of quick action and 
substance, of Clint Eastwood and 
McDonald's. 

I once asked a chef how things were 
going in order to make friendly 
conversation. He replied in philo-
sophical seriousn~ .. How can things 
be when I work for another man?" 

This volatile fellow then proceeded to 
discuss his personal theories of 
alienation. Another time, I stood by 
as two middle·aged men screamed 
horrible insults at each other for an 
hour without more than a suggestion 
of physical contact. 

I could spot many Americans by 
their green Michelin guides, and from 
time to time I struck up a conversa-
tion with one of my countrymen . 

Most found Paris even more charming 
than they had expected, but few could 
ever "feel" the place in five days. The 
most popular books of an American 
in Paris were Hemir:tgway's A 
Moveable Feast and Orwell's Down 
and Out in Paris and London. 

An· amazing number of street 
nusicians play in front of cafes and in 
Metro cars and tunnels. Many even 
earn a decent living. Paris can be 
a warm, nurturing, and human city. 

Architectural observation: In 
London all the buildings look so 
important that they make one want to 
tip the hat 1n homage to history; in 
Paris all the buildings are that 
important, and one stands in awe. 

The, English-speaking community in 
Paris is large enough to sustain a fetal 
Village Voice called the Metro. If one 
is French, reading the Metro is' tres 
chouette, if one is Anierican, reading 
the Metro is a must. 

In manY, hours of shoppmg in open 
and closed' markets, I never laid eyes 
on br<><X<Oli in Paris. Few native 
French people knew what I was 
tallcing about when I mentioned the 
harmless vegetable grown right next 
door in Italy. 

Prostitution in Paris bears no 
resemblanCe to that on Manbattan•s. 
13 
Eighth A venue. Ladies of the night on 
the rue St. Denis were closer to call 
girls and beautiful models than to the 
New York model. Except for the 
problem of tax evasion, prostitution is 
legal. Because of police harassment 
and certain discriminatory govern-
ment policies, les ftlles went on 
unofficial strike for a few weeks 
· several years ago and they quickly got 
what they wanted; the incident was 
called the "dead streets" or something 
like that. From the great number of 
women all over the city, and the fact 
that many older women of the 
profession still faithfully twirl their 
room keys, one feels that prostitution 
is simply the respectable shop girl's 
reasonable alternative. 

The manager of a bar, an M.A. in 
economics from Georgetown, only 
spends time with French girls; the 
head bartender, a British air traffic 
controller recently of Saudi Arabia, 
only looks at English and Americans. 
Neither man is often without escort. 
Their paths have never crossed at the 
same women; the barman still h~ his 
iob. 

Both a taxi driver and a man who 
sells Louis Vuitton pocketbooks on 
the black market agree: the place for 
a French man who can speak English 
is New York; there he can easily have 
both money and women. As a 
foreigner who can hold his own in the 
language of the country he visits, a -
man stands a much better chance with 
the women, they. say. It's better all 
aroimd, they agree. The two men 
don't exagge~~ that much. 


**Title: Is There Intelligent Life on Mars?**
**Author:  [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 14**

• We don't really know. 
A short walk from anywhere on campus 
• But we do know there's lots of untapped intelligent life nght here at 
Yale. And we need you. 
• If you're looking for an unusual job opportunity, we've got it. 
Lunches served daily at affordable prices 
-. Pitchers of Piels on special every Monday and 
Tuesday night $2.25 
Hot dogs 35¢ for Monday night football 
The place to stop before, after or during 
all sporting events. 
• Yale wants your help. And we think you can use some extra cash. 
• So .. we'repaying$4.00to$6.00perhourforTelephoneCampaign 
Associates. These are people who are reliable. They have a mature 
presentation, can talk about Yale and its needs. 
• They will be trying to reach thousands of alumni, parents and friends 
for a capital campaign pledge. 
• If you are a graduate/ professional student, senior or member of a 
faculty family, you are among those most eligible. If you can woO< a 
few hours a weekday night, why not apply? 
• Call the Pl;;lone/ Mail program now, 436-()653 


**Title: [No Title Listed]**
**Page number(s): 15**

the new journal, October 1978 
continued from page 2 
near the track will rarely smile -
a 
dignified nod, maybe, given with the 
inward-turned expression of someone 
coming from communion. A water 
polo game is beginning at the pool. 
Water polo players wear little 
protective caps with what looks like 
ear muffs attached. Before they give 
the team shout and plop into the 
water, they crowd together and thrust 
their hands, fingers spread, in the face 
of an official. ''He's checking their 
fingernails," says the woman next to 
me, who's rooting for Trinity, "so 
they won't scratch." The rhythm of 
the game keeps changing. Sometimes 
the ball whizzes around, sometimes 
the players keep dipping it anxiously 
in the water, looking for a place to 
throw. When the ball is free, one 
player paddles insolently after it while 
an enemy leans on his shoulders and 
shows his hands to prove he's clean. 
Once, someone is taken out and sits 
on the edge, clasping his knees and 
scowling. "He must have done some-
thing underwater," says the woman 
for Trinity. Above, on the track the 
runners are still orbiting noiselessly. 
On the barbell room landing on the 
first floor, Jorge Ualadz is lifting 200 
lbs. Below him people move their 
limbs in slow motion up and down, 
back and forth, lifting weights in the 
blue-green light reflecting off the 
rowing tank on the right. Jorge is a 
graduate student in philosophy, 
studying epistemology. He once lifted 
400 lbs. He says he's been less shy 
since he's been lifting. "I took up 
body building for a while, but I'm just 
not built for it"; he fingers his wrists, 
"Small bones. So I'm going back to 
lifting to try and get my strength 
back." "You could say this is an 
essentially meaningless activity," he 
pauses and looks out over the shirtless 
men pumping methodically at the 
Universal Weight Machines, "But 
then, you know, you give it meaning." 


If you like RECORDS (and who doesn't?) 
you're bound to like 
1--~~ .. ~§ 
59 Broadway Above A udio De n 
562-2508 
We might not be the biggest kids on the block but 
we've got great selections of ROCK, JAZZ, FOLK, 
BLUES & CLASSICAL music, including lots of " 
hard to find labels and artists. 
PLUS: 
We're open weeknights til 9 p.m. 
(with special sales from 6 to 9) 
We have weekly classical label sales 
Great Rock & Jazz cutouts 
Reasonable Prices 
The Fabulous Rhymes Kids 
AND 
With this ad any one $7.98 list lp only.$4.79 
15'


**Title: Doll**

<.~~;-;or 
other dolls. They can 
t.V2-
make a Barbie Breakout: you feed her 
~ 
a malted milk and her face breaks out 
with acne. The only way to get rid of 
the acne is to smear her face with a 
special ointment; squeezing the 
pimples would only make it worse. 
Currently advertised on Saturday 
morning children's television is a doll 
called Baby Wet 'N Rash. Its name is 
self-explanatory. You feed it, it wets, 
and then it develops a rash. The only 
way to get rid of the rash is to smear 
the doll's plastic buttocks with a 
special ointment. It's a wonderful way 
to raise your child to become a 
dermatologist. 

And what about Ken? He shouldn't be 
left out. They can market a Ken doll 
that develops a syphillitic rash on the 
palms of his hands. The only way to 
get rid of it is to keep him away from 
Barbie. Or how about an S&M Barbie 
that develops welts when you whip 
her? Or a Ken that gets psoriasis? 
Here's an unexplored field for 
American enterprise. 
With a little ingenuity, .the doll's 
manufacturers should be able to adapt 

Baby Wet 'N Rash is manufactured 
by Kenner, and sells for about $12.99. 


iarrit IItb. 
IIOO'RM SlltU 104 
260 YORK ST.- NEW HAVEN 
SIZE 
7!h-12 
• Burnished analine 
glove leather 
• Pillowed cushion 
innersole 
• F ully cJove leather lined and 
fully cushioned 
• Genuine Plantation crepe soles and heel 
SPECIAL 
OXFORDS 
NOW 
$42 VAL. 
WE ACCEPT MAIL ORDER OR TEL. 562-7633 
0 MASTER CHARGE 
0 AMERICAN EXPRESS 0 BANK AMERICARD 
- • 



**Title: Members-Only Sale**
**Author: J. B. BRINE**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Use your 
Master charge, Visa, or Co-op Card 
Members-Only Sale 
· 15% off Everything in the Store * 
Sunday Novetnber 12 
10 am to 5 pm 
Admission by Co-op card only. 
* 15% Off is in additron to your 
regular patronage refund



A. G. Spalding & Bros. 
CO•OP 
EnTh;"Whlffenpoofs 
Yale Jazz Trio 
TheDuke's Men 
The Proof of the Pudding 
Free Doughnut-Holes & Cider! 
No\V thru Nov. 11 
5,000 title-s ·- 650 courses 
Cou~e book overstcr-k is being returned imme• 
diately fo!lowing the sale. 
Here's a cha."lce to pick up a book in a su!:>ject 
you were a!wavs intt::re~ted in but didn't have the 
rir.n: 'tol:zkt: Coun.e ~JC"ks marked 
D.:: pt. 50 only. 
500/o OFF on hundreds of foreign lang books from reg. stock

