Publication date: March 26, 1975
Volume: 8
Issue number: 5

**MASTHEAD**
- Editor-in-Chief: David Sleeper
- Managing Editor: Stephen Sternbach
- Executive Editor: Michael Jacobson
- Designer: Marla Schay
- Associate Editor: Bob Liechty
- Associate Editor: Carol Eliel
- Circulation Manager: Nancy Olcott
- Production Editor: Jean Benefield
- Business Manager: Robert A. Cohen
- Publisher: Brian D. Raub
- Contributing editors: Daniel Denton, Ronald Roel, Stuart Rohrer, Steven R. Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Editorial Staff: Sandy Lee, Wendy Wolf, Robert H. Barker
- Business staff: Angus Gephart, adtJertising 17UJTI.Qger; Reg Miller, Jon Steinberg
- Circulation Staff: Jim Bick, asst circulation; Jack Ryan, Hugh R. Gross, Eric Kueffner, L. Bucky Levin, Roger Morrow, Leo Oren· stein, Asela Russell, Tony Segal, Ed Troncelli, Rich "cleancut" Viner, John Yandell


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- comment: David Dunlap ponders the arrival of Spring; Bob Sternbach uisits the Snow Chicken cafe; Bobbi Mark teUs about the traumas of editing.
- Growing Up with Big Tex - Chris Swenson
- The Images That Remain - Missy Panzer
- The Yale Hunger Action Project- Where It Stands Today - an analysis of the YHAP
- Blue Butterflies with Razor Beaks - Bob Liechty, John S. Rosenberg


**Title: The write of Spring**
**Author: David W. Dunlap**
**Page number(s): 2**

At first, the hints are small. They are neither boastful not blatant. Instead, they whisper in shy voice and only to those who will stop in the day pace to listen: spring nears. Perhaps for you it is the rain, which seems to soften from sleet to warm drizzle. Perhaps it is the earth aroma rising, the rich perfume of fecund loam. For you it may be that tenuous blooming blush of violet hysteria or the briefly-spied herd of geese returning to some Northern lagoon. But as child saplings from the prairie woodlands, we should look to the visit of the bearded vulture as guarantor of the vernal equinox.


How noble a specimen of bird would reward our furtive search when first we heard its haunting refrain 'round the Ides. Fidgeting, squirming children at the groaning breakfast board deep in the heartland grain belts, we would cast our tiny eyes at one another in conspiratorial glee on that morning more special to us than Christmas when the bearded vulture's song seemed to hang like the smell of ebon coffee and chum-sweet griddle cakes over the kitchen table. "Lando Goshen, Pa," Ma would exclaim, "Those tads o' yourn'r wrigglin' more furious 'n a litter o' whelps at drownin' time."


Pa could hear our hearts beat. He would scarcely glance up from his morning Agribusiness man's News Porum & Late Chicage Markets when he issued the delicious edict of release, those longed-for words to free us from the shackles of sobriety and send us into our rainbow-hued forest of fantasy. With a knowing twinkle in his one good eye, he spoke to us as if he too longed to commune with the vulture, as if he too for a daybreak's instant would return to the boyhood of like adventure: "Go on, get the hell out of here. You both make me sick. I hope your legs get torn off in a varmint trap."


And off we'd scramble, tumbling and squealing like piglets over one another in a maddened dash heart-stop, greased-lightning sweepstakes to be the first, the very first, ever-so-wonderfully first person in the whole wide world to find the mystical, mythical, Midwestern Phoenix risen in gaudy splendor from the barren cruel ashes of Winter. Diminutive Ulysses beckoned to the Sirens, we imagined phrases never really there-our ears younger then, maybe too our souls, but when the vulture called we found a message. He spoke to us as if he knew himself to be the harbinger of spring and the words were poesy divine: "Skraaaawk, frap-krak-a-rak, skraaaaawk, frap-krak-a-rak ... "


David Dunlap just finished editing the fabulous Yale Banner.


**Title: The world turned inside out**
**Author: Bob Sternbach**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

I wonder why anybody goes to the Snow Chicken Cafe. What peculiar pleasure can be obtained there? Certainly nothing could be less erotic. Yet on a Friday night, the Fords, Chevys, and Dodges are parked about a block and a half deep on each of five deserted streets adjacent to that white cinderblock box with the purple awning.


Standing discreetly before the entrance is a bouncer He will remind anybody flagrantly in violation of the "dress code" advertised by the establishment that they had better return more suitably attired. Just inside the door the management has posted t'he rather elaborate code. It prohibits, among other things, jeans and workboots, and requires jackets and collared shirts.


No need for the sign: everyone is dressed to the hilt. Standing on line, I feel a bit out of place in my Mory's tie and jacket, but a part of me has roots here, via Brooklyn and what I know to be Coney Island Avenue chic. Most of the guys are dressed toward the flashier end of the Brass Button spectrum, parading rich in gaudy patterned shirts, platform shoes, and crotch-tight pants. The dolls display themselves in outline-pants, lots of makeup, and revealing halter-tops. The line is jittery and talkative, but no one says a word about the $2 cover for a place that doesn't even feature alive band. To complain would be decidedly incorrect considering the exaggerated politesse and air of affected refinement that prevails inside the joint.


Past the entrance, in a small lobby, stands the Snow Chicken emblem, mascot or totem. One has ample time to admire it during the wait to be seated. It is a large, grotesque, papier-mache sculpture of a fat hen with protuberant breasts and ass, a cross between a woman and a beast. As a product of the human imagination, it is akin to the figure of the unicorn: a fantastic being which does not really exist in the world, but which embodies a conglomerate of certain elements that exist in strange togetherness here in this hyperventilated coop. Yet only in retrospect, as one walks out the door, does the justness of the sculpture's epitomization become fully apparent. Like the coat of arms of an entire age, it proclaims the ethos of the place: a mixture of mindless "culture in pure sensation," with a cowardly lust for plasticene regularity of desirable features, a doll-like cosmeticism that never grows old. No tit will do here without its wad of silicone.


In unctuous accents, the host introduces himself and leads you into the enormous dancing and sitting area, constructed slopingly and in the round, so that the focus is on the dance floor below. There are two long mirrored bars, and in the dark, what seems to be over a hundred white plastic-wood tables. The dance floor is brilliantly lit, relatively small and extremely crowded. The overpowering sound system and jerky strobe lights are intended to blow the mind, and to produce the effect of having entered another world. On the circular ceiling, the same white material used for the tables is shaped to mimic the vines and branches of a belated, DuPontized bower of bliss.


Every few seconds, shrill police whistles punctuate the long soul records, sounds of the dancers advertising for themselves. When the music stops, fluttering bird noises lead some of them back to their nests.


Everything at the Snow Chicken tends to blur distinctions. The crazy lights and look-alike dress make it impossible to tell how rich or poor any of the people are, or to guess at what they might do on the outside.
(continued on page 15)


**Title: Growing Up with Big Tex**
**Author: Chris Swenson**
**Page number(s): 3-4**

If you drive south from the dust of Oklahoma, or north from LBJ country, or west from New Orleans and the East Texas pine forests, or east from the cattle ranches of West Texas, you'll see it jutting out of the ground: an aluminum and glass wart on the level, green plain which surrounds it. There are no capital buildings, harbors or rivers to speak of (there is the Trinity River, but it's so low and pitiful that even Dallasites call it the Trinity Trickle). The city seems to stand in the way of railroad tracks and highways as they continue to other places. There's just no good explanation for Dallas being there. It's as if some sort of industrial spontaneous generation happened out there, ruining what would have been some beautiful farm land.


In the sixth grade we learned in our Texas history class that in 1841 a fellow named John Neely Bryan was the one who actually started Dallas. Even he didn't seem to have a good reason to live there; he must have gotten tired on his way toward somewhere else and happened to be in kind of a nice spot so he built a cabin, plotted out the land around him and sold it to other lost sojourners who had stumbled off the well-beaten trails to the south and west. The teacher couldn't explain why so many stopped right there on John Neely Bryan's land. The land was good enough but it wasn't any better or worse than any land within a hundred miles. I remember asking the teacher why so many people came to live there and all she could say was, "They figured it would be a nice place to live."


The important thing is not why it grew there, but that it grew. Eventually, the first few settlers got around to naming their collections of cabins and land after President Polk's Vice-President, a man who will be remembered only because those settlers took his name to honor their new home. And Dallas grew; by the time I entered the story in 1952, it was indeed a city.


Summer was always the dominant season, the one I think of most when looking back. It was always hot and usually humid, with a three week autumn, a three week winter, a three week spring, and the rest a summer that stretched lazily on, the days banging one after another in an endless string. The only thing that distinguished one from another was the violence of the thunderstorms. We-brothers and sisters and the trembling, wiry dog-would hide under the covers of my parents' bed. I still think those gustful rumbling nights are one reason families remain tighter in the South than in any other section of the country. The scariest time we spent huddled together was during the tornado of 1957. We had been through a lot of little tornados but this one turned the sky a color I had never seen. It killed ten people, mostly in the negro section, and we could see its angry tail trailing from the boiling clouds as it skipped over our section of town.



We lived on the outskirts of the city, and a little snake of water called Turtle Creek flowed by our house. The Creek curved and twisted within a small, twenty-foot, chalk-walled drop that contained tangled vegetation and slimy creatures you'd never expect to find in a city. The Creek was narrow enough to jump over in some places, in others it was thirty yards across.


Even under the scorching summer sun we would seldom swim because of what was hidden under the surface. One hot day two policemen came down to go fishing and ended up shooting seven cottonmouths which were sunning themselves on the banks. They brought the dead snakes to our yard and a reporter took a picture of the policemen holding them draped over a bamboo fishing pole. The next day the paper ran a story warning mothers to keep their kids away from the Creek, so we couldn't go down there until everybody forgot about it-which took about a week.


In 1957, the City of Dallas hosted the Dallas Rangers of the Texas League, one step away from the majors. One year they were a farm team for the Chicago Cubs, the next year the Los Angeles Dodgers, and the Baltimore Orioles the next. Even though our allegiance to major league clubs shifted with each change in ownership, we were always partial to the Rangers. We'd go out to creaky Burnett Field -a used car lot today-and idolize the players' every move.




**Title: page4**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
page4 
I 
There was a shortstop named 
Angel Segui from the Dominican 
Republic. Every time he took a turn 
at bat, he would knock the clods of 
caked mud off the bottom of his 
cleats, put down the bat, make the 
sign of the cross, then spit into his 
hands. One night he hit a homer in 
the bottom of the ninth to win a close 
game against the hated Amarillo 
Raiders. The next day we had our 
YMCA organized baseball practice, 
and the first four batters went 
through Angel Segui's ritual, sign of 
the cross and all, before the dumb-
founded coach gathered his wits 
enough to yell at us, telling us to 
"cut out that malarky." 


We never beat up blacks or called 
any kids nigger where I lived 
because no blacks lived near us. We 
lived in a part of Dallas called High-
land Park and no blacks were 
allowed to live there. Of course, there 
were the maids we'd always see wait-
ing at the bus stop, or the colored 
yardmen who kept the lawns mowed 
and the bushes trimmed, or the guys 
who worked at the filling station or 
behind the counter at the ice cream 
store. But we never really lived with 
them, the black section was too far 
away. 


I think now that our parents felt 
too sophisticated to call anybody a 
nigger or to tolerate us kids doing 
that. The racism was more hidden 
and perhaps deeper because the city 
was so well segregated. The only 
time we went through the black sec-
tion was for some game or other at 
the Cotton Bowl. We would drive 
through the section-our fathers 
behinds the wheels of roomy cars-
and stare at the rows of rotten wood 
shacks with the paint chipping off, 
the dirt yards that were sometimes 
used for parking during big games; 
and the blacks would always be sit-
ting on their porches, the kids in 
bedraggled clothing, barefoot and 
grimy, the adults in old rocking 
chairs or on porch railings, holding a 
can of beer, sometimes laughing 
loudly at hidden secrets, sometimes 
just watching the parade of cars. 


Every year around Christmas-time 
there was something called The Can-
paign at school to collect canned food 
for the poor black folks in West Dal-
las. They would keep count of the 
cans you brought in and post a not-
ice announcing how many cans each 
class had accumulated. We were 
always aware that our class was 330 
cans ahead of the fifth graders and 
220 behind the third graders and so 
we'd bring in more cans. At the 
school Christmas party the head of 
the West Dallas Mission would come 
and accept the cans, thank us for the 
food we donated, and bless us for 
caring about the unfortunates of our 
great city. Some of us would look at 
the trees with the star on top and the 
pile of cans beside it and smile ben-
eficently. We were the class that had 
won on the last announcement, and 
that was what mattered. 


The Mexican-Americans were no 
better off than the blacks in Dallas. 
Their own section of town was fairly 
far away from ours, but our family 
had more contact with them than 
with the blacks. We were Catholic 
and the church we went to, Holy 
Trinity, had part of its parish in the 
Mexican section. From kindergarten 
to fourth grade I went to Sunday 
Schooland learnedthestrange 
prayers and suffered the stem, scar-
ing glares of frustrated nuns who 
were determined to save the souls of 
the damned children sitting fright-
ened at their desks. But in the fifth 
grade, some of the boys in the class 
rebelled. I would hide in the men's 
room with Manuel Dominguez, 
Pablo Romon, and Jerry Sanchez. 
After the bell had rung and the hall-
ways had cleared, instead of going 
upstairs to the classroom we would 
head out to the back alley where a 
few more had gathered, Johnny Ortiz 
and Hernando Smith~ and even 
Robert Flohr who lived near me. 
Hernando pulled out a pack of cig-
arettes and passed them around. I 
nearly got sick, both from the smoke 
and from the excitement of sinning 
right there on church property. Later 
we would go shoplift from a 7-11 
store across the street, taking candy 
and girlie magazines which we all 
looked at in wonderment, trying not 
to show our obvious curiosity, trying 
to be as cool as Cisco, who knew 
everything and already had a mus-
tache. 


These kids were different from the 
ones on my block, but I never 
thought about it until Pat Flohr, 
Robert's older brother, asked us why 
we were hanging around with those 
greasy spies. He said they were so 
greasy their tongues start slipping 
and they can't talk right. He told us 
that if we kept playing around with 
them he would tell our parents. So 
Robert and I convinced our mothers 
that we weren't going to go to Sun-
day School at all. 


One of the Catholic priests in my 
parish, Father Hubert, had been a 
priest in Chicago during the Prohibi-
tion. Because most of the mobsters 
were C~tholic, they spent a lot of 
time in his church. He was the only 
priest AI Capone would trust to hear 
his confessions, and Father Hubert 
used to joke about his unsuccessful 
efforts to save Scarface's soul Fath-
er Hubert kept a big un-lit cigar in 
his mouth all the time, except when 
he was saying Mass, and every ser-
mon started out with a joke or a par-
able about his hectic days in Chi-
cago. One sermon he usually gave 
after Christmas points out how easy 
it is to misunderstand the word of 
God. Father Hubert told us that he 
had overheard a gangster trying to 
describe to some children the story of 
Joseph's flight into Egypt. The 
gangster had proclaimed excitedly, 
"Joseph picks up his wife Mary, the 
Babe Jesus, and flees.' ' One of the 
kids asked the gangster if Joseph 
scratched himself a lot like dogs with 
fleas, and he realized his mistake. 
Later, on that strange day in Novem-
ber, Father Hubert administered last 
rites to a brief, happy time of hope, 
when he annointed the shattered 
head of John F. Kennedy at Park-
land Hospital. 


**Title: The Images that Remain**
**Author: Missy Panzer**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

The NewJoumal I March 26, 1975 
4 
The State Fair was held every year 
in Dallas during the last weeks in 
October. It was billed as "The State 
Fair of Texas, The Biggest State 
Fair in the World." We always went 
to it because there was always a Fair 
Day, a day when our school let us off 
and gave each of us a ticket to get 
through the gates. It was at the fair 
that I experienced in its totality the 
confusing cacophony of Texas: its 
wind-roughened farmers looking 
over new harvesters; its bow-legged 
cowboys dangling rolled cigarettes 
from their lips; the rich cattlemen 
dressed in embroidered boots and 
shirts (with pearl snap buttons), usu-
ally looking over mountainous prize 
bulls named Little Boy, Big John, or 
Sonny Sam; and the negroes, or as 
they were called earlier, the colored 
folks, dressed either in subdued, 
earthy colors with straw hats, or in 
maroons and golds, ogling the new 
cars in the Automobile Building. Or 
sometimes you would find them at 
the Wildlife Building where there 
was a shallow pool filled with cat-
fish, perch, and bream. If you paid 
twenty-five cents you could fish in it 
for three minutes with bamboo poles. 
Every now and then somebody 
would whoop with delight after catch-
ing his Sunday dinner. I spent 
enough quarters to fill up Turtle 
Creek, but I never had a nibble. 


There were penny arcades with 
pinball machines and teenaged 
hustlers. There were cotton candy 
stands, pecan pie booths, Dr. Pepper 
and Frito carts-all of them sur-
rounded by masses of children, every 
fourth one crying. But the best part 
of the fair, the most crowded and 
most fun, was the Midway. Barkers 
with home-fried accents would get 
you to put down a quarter on the 
spinning wheel, or pitch three base-
balls at weighted bowling pins, or 
show your strength by swinging a 
sledge ~1ammer and ringing a bell. 
And, of course, there were the freak 
shows where for a slim dime you 
could see the bearded lady, a horse 
smaller than a dog, a dog with five 
legs, and Siamese twins. There was 
something scary and fetid about the 
side shows and sometimes I would 
skip them altogether. But if one of 
my friends boasted that he was 
going there, all of us kids would fall 
in line behind the over-ailed farmers 
chewing straws, pay our dimes and 
walk in. If we hadn't, we'd have been 
called chickens for the next two 
weeks. 


This conglomeration of people was 
Texas in the late fifties and early six-
ties. Every part and type of Texas 
was represented. The hicks rubbed 
against the city folk, the cowboys 
against the oilmen, the colored 
against the white, all proud to be 
there, to be a part of Texas for those 
two weeks. And when it finished 
they would all return to their respec-
tive places: the cowboys back to the 
Staked Plains, the oilmen to their 
office buildings, the blacks and Mex-
icans to their shacks, the whites to 
their stone and brick houses, and the 
barriers between them would seem 
impregnable for another year. 


At the entrance and exit to the fair 
stood Big Tex, a four-story, blue-
jeaned cowboy with a huge Stetson 
on his head and with a deep, slow 
recorded voice that broadcast pleas-
antries and messages. Sometimes his 
mechanical insides would get out of 
synch and his mouth would flap open 
and shut a few times and then shut 
for good as a booming soliloquy 
emerged, sounding like the voice of 
God gushing from the heavens. If 
any of us ever got lost or separated 
from the group, we'd always meet 
back at Big Tex. Because of his 
voice, his height, his bigness, I was 
never too far away from his presence. 
Without rambling into the obvious, 
without expounding what Big Tex 
symbolizes for me even today, it is 
enough to know that he'd always 
manage to belch while I was leaving: 
" Y'all come back, ya heah." 


We were deeply aware of Texas 
history while growing up, and the 
War for Independence inspired many 
monuments. There was the Alamo 
for one, and by the time we reached 
high school, we had all traveled with 
one class or another to San Antonio 
to see it. When I was about six years 
old, every kid on the block had a 
coonskin hat and a rifle named 
Betsy. We all died imaginary deaths, 
surrounded by hundreds of dead 
Mexicans. Santa Anna, the Mexican 
general, was always portrayed as a 
fat, lazy fool who let his whole army 
get surrounded during a siesta by a 
daring force of Texans at San 
Jacinto. The monument to commem-
orate that victory is the exact height 
of the Washington Monument, but 
the state government put a star on 
top to make the San Jacinto obelisk 
a little bit taller. 


Along with my pride in Texas, I 
was constantly reminded of my fam-
ily's role in Texas history. My great-
great grandfather, Svante Magnus 
Swenson, was the first Swedish 
immigrant in Texas and best friends 
with Sam Houston. With such pres-
tigious 'political connections, Svante 
put together huge tracts ofland in 
Central Texas, which became known 
as the Swenson Land and Cattle Co., 
the second biggest ranch in the state. 
Eighty people now own it, aU des-
cended from Svante. Some of them 
are fourth cousins who live in New 
York and Boston. Others still live on 
and operate the ranch. 


Every now and then Dad would 
pack us in the station wagon, and 
drive four hours across North-Cen-
tral Texas to the ranch. Along the 
way we'd pass towns called Weather-
ford, Abilene, Stamford, and Throck-
morton. They were Southern towns, 
with an overwhelming Texan outlook 
that acknowledges no defeat, except 
when a vengeful God causes the 
crops to dry up and the land to blow 


Modern Dallas is the sophisticated 
city cousin to these prairie towns. 
During the Vietnam War it was 
harsher, less tolerant, and less for-
giving. But that's another chapter, 
describing my dealings with the 
draft board as a C.O., being rejected 
by old friends because of it, and 
turned away from old places because 
my hair was too long. But that is 
another story, one that says I can't 
go home again, at least not to the 
Dallas I knew, the one I wrote about 
here, the one I carry around inside. 0 
Chris "Sticks" Swenson is a senior in 
Davenport College. 

NEW SPRING. HOURS 
SUNDAY-THURSDAY II-MIDNIGHT 
FRIDAY and SATURDAY II-I a.m. 
EVERYTHING WE SELL CAN 
BE PACKAGED "TO GO." 
CALL US!! 
1058 CHAPEL ST. 
865-9744 


--- Page 6 ---


Walker Evans Subway Portrait 1941 
Walker Evans Shoppers, Chicago 1947 
The Images that Remain 
by Missy Panzer 
Jerry Thompson, Instructor of Photography at 
the Yale School of Art, teaches Documentary 
Photography in the graduate school. He also 
teaches introductory and studio photography to 
undergraduates. He grew up in Houston, Texas 
and attended the University of Texas and Johns 
Hopkins. He received an MFA degree from Yale. 
Jerry Thompson is slender, with thick brown 
hair already laced with silver though he is close 
to thirty. His eyes are deep brown and large. 
We walk from York Street to his studio along 
the underside of the city, past the State Street 
garage and the White Tower. In his second story 
loft, a chair against a white paper backdrop faces 
a huge box of a camera, a big, black, intimate 
monster. The rest of the room is bare. The wooden 
floor shows marks of large machines now van-
ished. Several tall narrow windows puncture the 
walls and let in the sun; it is a lazy, bright after-
noon. 


"You see," he says to me, "I'm getting stable. 
There's going to be a darkroom there." He points 
to an empty space, bordered by high shelves hold-
ing bottles of chemicals and yellow boxes of photo-
graphic paper. "The camera and lights are set up. 
I have a place to bring things." 


As yet there are very few things here. A wooden 
shelf over the radiator holds a coffee pot and thick 
china mugs. A broom stands in the corner. We sit 
on two chairs. I look out the window over his 
shoulder. He looks straight out over the horizon. 
"Do you ever think of returning to Houston?" I 
ask. 


J eny Uelsmann 
"If I did right now, it would be to photograph. 
My dream project is to capture in 30 or 60 or 75 
images, the essence of a city. And going all over 
the country, recreate in photographs what it feels 
like to be in New York, Baltimore, Houston. I 
know few cities well. But each time I go some-
where new I'm surprised to find it nothing like 
the places I have been to before. Each city has its 
own distinct feeling, that much is clear. The ques-
tion is how to get it down on film. 


Walker Evans 
Sharecropper, Alabama 1936 
"James Agee and Walker Evans captured a 
tiny comer of the South when they wrote Let Us 
Now Praise Famous Men. Evans began to do that 
for many sections of the country. Each series of 
photographs is great, but they are still incom-
plete. I'm talking about an all-inclusive piece of 
work, it would be marvelous if anyone could ever 
finish it. It would take years. It would take years 
of walking the streets." 


"I first went to Coney Island with a group ot 
kids from school. I couldn't wait to get back there, 
to see the place, to photograph." 


Jerry's photographs of people on the island are 
not meant to mirror the island. If you go there you 
won't see what is in the pictures. A photograph 
does not copy an image from real life, it shows 
what the photographer saw in a particular scene. 
Subject matter is important; it makes possible the 
communication of a certain way of seeing. And 
New York has a way of making you want to show 
the other people on the streets what you see. 


I am interested in Jerry's opinion of two men 
whose work I don't quite understand. "A photo-
graph," I begin, "is something more, something 
other than what was there at the time the photo-
graph was made. But many contemporary photog-
raphers don't stop at the enhancement of what 
you can see. They go on to make images of things 
that can't be seen at all. Duane Michals does this 
in sequences of photographs which 'tell stories.' 
Jerry Uelsmann makes prints from a combination 
of negatives to produce dream-like juxtaposed 
images.'' 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Jerry**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Yes," he says and looks away from the room, 
away from our table into the shadows. "You can 
do two things in photography. There are those 
who would make a certain sense of what's real. 
Others prefer to make their own 'reality.' I'm more 
interested in actual things, making something 
out of what is already there. We all have to work 
with our own ideas, so in a sense we are all 
doing the same thing. But it's a question of trying 
to describe or trying to editorialize, of making 
little or much of the fact that subjectivity traps 
us all. 


Weegee, a photographer for the New York 
Daily News made a book called The Naked City. 
He was a police photographer and lived a long 
time in a furnished room right across from the sta-
tion. He had a radio set and heard the calls as they 
came in to the desk. He was his own dispatcher, 
going straight to the action. His photographs 
were organized according to category-Fires, 
Murders, Public Events-they weren't fancy pic-
tures. They were straightforward and at the same 
time infused with his own peculiar way of seeing 
things." Jerry's face lights up. On h.\s grave 
mouth a smile glimmers. "For instance, there's a 
picture of a building on fire. It's a full shot; you 
can see the jets of water spraying into the smoke. 
Clouds of steam obscure all but one sentence of a 
billboard mounted on the side of the building that 
says "Just add boiling water." We are laughing 
pretty hard, imagining a building so helpfully 
arranged for W eegee as he turned the corner. 
Jerry continues, "And another page was a picture 
of a blank piece of film, exposed to light and devel-
oped.'' He draws an imaginary rectangle on the 
table. "The caption reads 'This is a picture of 
Greenwich Village. It is blank because nothing 
ever happens there. On another page is a copy of 
a receipt that reads 'Two Murders-$35,' You see, 
he has taken two assigned pictures of murders for 
the News.' But the choice of such an artifact 
as part of his book shows a very precise sensibil-
ity. It's obvious he could immediately register and 
record his response to such an odd paycheck. His 
mind must have worked the way his camera 
works. "There is a very famous picture of him, 
sitting on a camp stool, typing on a machine in 
the trunk of his car, with big cameras all around 
~feet. He used to type the captions for the 
photographs before they went back to the News." 


We compare ideas about other workers and 
their vision, adducing an image, picturing the 
same picture. But he comes back to himself, 
weighing words carefully, regulating the openness 
of his eyes. They don't let too much in, he doesn't 
let too much out. His words are southern accented 
and softly spoken. The voiced opinions are clear 
and thought out, ready to be aired. My prepared 
questions have been anticipated, answered, some-
times dodged, all while I listen. This is nothing 
like an interview. Imagine instead sitting while 
the sun goes down, saying what one thinks and 
dreams, aloud and unabashed. 


After a moment, Jerry says to me, "It's neces-
sary to step back to see things. Good photography 
requires a certain amount of detachment. Now 
Yale is even offering a course-Alienation-pass 
it and you are an artist. You know-A&A-the 
Alienation and Architecture building. But that's 
putting the cart before the horse. By affecting 
a way of doing things you can't have the attitude 
that leads to the routine. And you can't make 
yourself be something you're not. With a Hercu-
lean effort you could keep it up for six months or a 
year, or even five years, which isn't very long 
when you consider how long we have to live. But 
to keep on doing that thing for 30 years or 50 
years, if you're not made to do it, would be impos-
sible. In the end you're going to be a business man 
if that's what you are to be. 


"I didn't start to make photographs seriously 
till my last year in college. Then when things 
weren't going well, I'd go into the darkroom, as an 
escape. When I went to graduate school the dark-
room came East with me and I found myself split-
ting time evenly between photography and study. 
I left school to teach in New York. I walked 
around a lot, looking at people, and took my cam-
era along. That's when I began to save negatives, 
to look at my work. Three years later I came 
here." 


A thought comes to mind. "Photographs are 
very powerful things," I say. "I've seen people 
react very strongly towards them. When I went 
south to Mexico the Indians wouldn't let their pic-
tures be taken. They were afraid the camera would 
steal their soul. When I look at some photographs, 
1 can't help but agree with those Indians. It is 
strange to look at faces that are no longer living, 
that have no names. The artifact, or image has 
lasted longer than the original. I've heard people 
make a point about Atget and Paris, for example. 
The world he photographed was vanishing. And 
you photographed the New Haven train station, 
which is also gone. Does it matter that your 
images are the only things that remain?" 


"I don't think so. That kind of nostalgic mean-
ing only comes atter tne ongma1 has vanished. We 
now have a special perspective on old pictures, 
knowing that such a world was about to dis-
appear, but I think it's artificial to impose such a 
perspective on the photographer. He wasn't 
necessarily conscious of tha, while it was happen-
ing. Now if I were to go out and purposefully pho-
tograph 1950 automobiles, that's something else 
again. I'm much more interested in why I photo-
graph you now. Why do I make a two dimensional 
image of someone who will still be here tomorrow. 
I make something new. I make a photograph. 


**Title: The Themes**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
(
<,
ll
\
•
THE THEMES
A
trace of that fine com-
mencement nostalgia
would stir late on my
final night at Yale last De-
cember, but it would come at
the end of a day that seemed
more a cruel and comic finale
than a Great Beginning.
E
leven hundred portraits
and biographies are to
be found in the Senior
Classbook, maldng it a com-
prehensive chronicle of the
Class of 1975. What is more,
we've added 00 pages to the
book this year, greatly in-
creasing our total coverage
of Yale College. More than
half of the book is now fea-
ture material, which includes:
450 photographs, 25 stories
and 14 special sections.

W
e will never again
cla~ber over a regi-
ment of bodies in
front of Brewster's house to
proclaim women's victory at
Bladderball. We no longer
need to suspend a sheet
from the window inscribed
with "Two Thousand Female
Leaders a Year."

O
ur reaction was to re-
quest saliva tests for
half their team; we just
didn't believe that jerseys
could make that much dif-
ference. Hardly daunted, we
skated onto the ice to the
cheers of a few loyal fans
and fought our way bravely
to an 11-3 loss.

ther things about Yale,
as opposed to St Ig-
natius High, dismayed
me - such as the fact that: 1)
girls don't exactly love foot-
ball players here and 2) nei-
ther does anyone else.

ver in Dillon Fieldhouse,
tiny Milt Holt, "the
Pineapple," was putting
a lei over Pat · Mel nally's
head. In strides Ted Ken-
nedy. Light bulbs pop. And
so does just about every
blood vessel in my brain.
I
looked around, and saw
terror spread over the faces
of my fellow beer bottles.
There were screams all a-
round us. I knew we had to
get out before we were
trampled.

**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Missy Panzer**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New Journal I March 26, 1975 
"The story of the train station pictures doesn't 
end there. The lady in charge of preserving the 
station called me up after the pictures were pub-
lished in the Yale Alumni Magazine, and said that 
the organization would like a print of the station. 
in case they ever rebuild it, they would then know 
how to proceed. They want to project a copy from 
a projection of the original. They want to make a 
projection from a projection. That's all a photo-
graph is-projection of light onto a sensitive 
surface." 

Light is reflected off disorganized space. The 
person controlling the light, by means of a camera, 
organizes the space, framing it in a certain way. I 
use my ear and pen and paper the same way Jerry 
uses a camera and light, to select an image. That 
way of framing something, or taking a picture, can 
be very individual. Someone once said Cariter 
Bresson's pictures followed him around. Maybe 
so, the way he organizes space goes with him 
wherever he goes. 

"Irving Penn came to speak to the graduate 
students," I say, "and mentioned he enjoyed 
photographing for Vogue because the.man behind 
the camera was just as important to the oroduct 
as the things in front of the camera. Do you think 
that's true?" 

Jerry nods. "It's especially true about much 
of the photography he does, which is in a studio. 
His photographs are arranged. Nothing is before 
the camera until he puts it there. Studio work is 
very similar to painting. You start with a blank 
canvas and build it up, arranging things in two 
dimensional space. 

"The photography I'm doing is of a different 
kind. I think it comes out of the portraits of 
Bellocq, or Brady. They were documentary por-
traits. 
Robert Frank Political Rally, Chicago 1956 

"I use the same kind of camera that they work 
with. It make a large negative. The prints are con-
tact prints, made by placing the negative next to 
the paper and shining a light on it. The images are 
not enlarged. 
Lee Friedlander 
New Orleans 1968 

"The camera is big and heavy. It is very ob-
vious, not the 35mm kind that hides in your hand. 
Your subject knows you are taking his picture. He 
has to stand still, because the exposures are long, 
lasting several seconds. It's different from the 
fractions of a second we are used to. 

''When I began using these cameras, I was on 
the ctetenstve. Most people were using fast lenses, 
fast film, capturing smaller and smaller slices of 
time. They considered the older methods obsolete. 
I was lucky to get this camera. I was bidding 
against someone who wanted it for a planter. 
'•y oung people in the sixties began to explore 
what might be called "Frank's idiom" -looking at 
American life as frozen seconds, fleeting images 
grabbed in out-of-the-way places. Hundreds of 
photographers have taken countless numbers of 
candid pictures during the last fifteen years, so 
the idiom seems depleted to many of us. We start 
to look at today's world with old tools, and the 
result is a new idiom, different from nineteenth 
century pictures because we live in a different 
time and because the tools have been refined. 

In a few years this idiom will no doubt be depleted 
for a while, and many people will turn to some-
thing else. 

''John Szarkowski, as curator of photography 
at the Museum of Modern Art, has helped tremen-
dously in bringing nineteenth century pictures to 
light. He has educated people about that kind of 
photography. All we had seen for years was the 
35mm work of people like Cartier-Bresson, Robert 
Frank or (more recently) Lee Friedlander. Maybe 
it's time to see where we've been. 

"If you want to see how the camera works, I'd 
like to take your picture, while you're here." 

He moves to the camera as I put down my pen. 
We take our places on either side of the large 
black box. Now I can see its white glass eye, and 
wonder what I look like from the other side. On 
my left is a slice of corridor, ahead the tripod and 
flash are waiting. To my right is a blank white 
wall and in front of me, the glassy impassive stare 
of the camera. "Okay look at the camera, hold it, 
page9 
good." His hand reaches forward to close down 
the lens, the white eye grows smaller. Another 
hand slides a glass plate into place. "Look at the 
camera." The light flashes. "All right." I dip 
down my head to clear the stars from my eyes. 
When I look up, the white eye is wide and ready. 
I frown and slide down on the shiny wood chair. 
The camera shifts, I move. It moves, I move and 
look up, defiant. The flash goes, blinding and 
harsh. And again the eye faces me, open and 
inquiring, unrelenting. I forget my face and stare 
back, patiently, looking at the camera very hard. 
Hands flutter at the edge of my sight, turning hot 
bulbs and sliding film. We are conversing silently 
and intensely. "That's all." I thought his voice 
would break the spell. But as we move into the 
next room, I can't resist looking back over my 
shoulder, to see if that glass stare has followed us. 
If it did, I was too slow to see. I don't know if the 
film carried a piece of my soul away, as the Mexi-
cans believe. It has grabbed a slice of time, flat 
and focused on the film. "I'll get a print back to 
you." And I will have the slice returned, trans-
formed into something I can hold. 

I owe Jerry a different kind of transformation. 
Out of time I grab our words. They return sorted 
and shuffled into a legible document of the after-
noon. We both weld onto paper an otherwise 
transient piece of time. And somewhere it's writ-
ten that for a thousand words a picture is fair 
exchange. O 
Missy Panzer is a junior in Morse 
College. 
Walker Evans' photographs appear in 
Walker Evo.n.s, MU&eum of MO<hm Art 
Monograph, 1971. Bellocq, Cartier-Bresson, 
Fra.nk, Friedlander, and Michals appear in 
Lookin-g at Photograph$ by John Szarkowski. 
W eegee photos appear in Nalud City, by 
Weegee (Arthur Fellig) 1945. Atget ap~ 
in Hutory of Photography by Beaumont 
NewhalL Brady from the historical print 
collec:tion, Library of Congress. 


**Title: The Yale Hunger Action Project- Where It Stands Today**
**Author: Bob Liechty**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

I don't enjoy people telling me that 
thousands of infants die every day in 
the world. I don't think I really 
believe it. Where I come from child-
ren usually live to an old age. We 
have abortions and miscarriages, but 
that's a different story. 

The question that bothers me is 
why do people starve to death? 

They don't eat enough, I know. But 
because I eat more than enough 
should I feel guilty? I don't enjoy 
feeling guilty any more than think-
ing about starving people. I feel 
guilty because people tell me that I 
am part of a system that deprives 
others of food. We have beautiful 
lawns at the expense of India not 
having enough fertilizer. Fine. I see 
the comparison but I also realize that 
the rice I leave on my plate won't 
feed a starving infant in India. 

I don't like it when guilt forces me 
to repress my better instincts-when 
I feel bad because I think that what-
ever I do will be too small. "The sad 
thing is that if one can't take a giant 
step," said William Sloane Coffin, 
the Yale Chaplain, "then one won't 
take any step at all." 

. 
The Yale Hunger Action Project 
(YHAP) has modest immediate and 
long-range proposals. They realize 
that to effect any changes one has to 
take a series of small steps. 

1 

I became aware of the YHAP in 
September when Reverend Coffin 
asked students, faculty, and admin-
istration to come to his office every 
Friday afternoon to discuss the 
hunger situation. Even though 
Coffin started the meetings, many 
different people have developed as 
leaders. Perhaps this is what has 
made the group so strong. 

The fast on November 5, 1974, was 
the first group activity. "Fasting is a 
small reflection,'' said Coffin. It gave 
the students a chance to sacrifice 
something and unified them around 
a common act. 

But if some people coalesced 
around the fast others became irri-
tated because of it. "The major oppo-
sition that I found collecting signa-
tures for the fast," said Charlie 
Homer '76, "was the reaction, 'You 
people are trying to make us feel 
guilty. I'm willing to give money but 
I'm not willing to make a committ-
ment.' I said, we appreciate your 
signing up.'' 

doesn't expect everyone to commit 
themselves to work on the Project. 
The YHAP serves its purpose if 
people become sensitive to the 
hunger situation. 

On February 27, a cQmmittee 
appointed by President Brewster 
and headed by Burke Marshall, a 
Law School professor, held their first 
open hearing to consider an official 
Yale response to world hunger. The 
YHAP formally presented their 
goals, written by David O'Connor 
'75, before this committee. The pro-
posals suggested the creation of a 
curriculum that would stress specific 
issues related to hunger: nutrition, 
world finance, agricultural advance-
ments, food distribution, and land 
reform. They suggested that the 
summer term in 1976 have as its 
axis the world hunger problem. They 
proposed that Yale encourage stud-
ents on leave of absence, about eight 
percent of the student body, to spend 
time on development projects in 
Third World countries. The YHAP 
also discussed the few graduate 
school courses offered in the area 
of world hunger. 

The YHAP suggested to the 
Marshall Committee that the dining 
halls provide students with the 
option of meatless meals and the 
choice to fast on a weekly basis and 
channel the money through the 
YHAP. They noted that fertilizer 
used on Yale lawns could be put to 
better use in India if the proper 
distribution agency were found. 

They admitted, however, that these 
last efforts were "at best stopgap 
measures." 

"Yale is inherantly political," the 
YHAP representative reminded the 
committee. He cited the political im-
plications involved with Yale's in-
vestments in international corpora-
tions. 

A wide range of groups besides 
· the YHAP spoke before the com-
mittee, underlining the broad con-
cern with world hunger. ECHOE, a 
Boston-based group representing 
universities, ecological groups, bus-
inesses, and private citizens, solicited 
Yale's support. Chuck Powers, a 
professor at the Yale Divinity 
School, spoke on the ethics of relief. 
!\nother group advocated reforms in 
Connecticut's school lunch program. 
Alan Berg, author of The Nutri-
tkm Factor, who spoke at Yale 
earlier this year, wrote a letter to the 
Marshall Committee saying that he 
was impressed by what he saw and 
hoped that this interest would push 
Yale graduates into professional 
fields they had conspicuously 
avoided. 

Albert Dobie, head of Yale Dining 
Hall services, submitted a letter of 
support for meatless alternatives. 
He. opposed a move to force veg-
etarian meals on students but said 
he would cooperate with efforts to 
raise funds through dining hall acti-
vities. Dobie was impressed with the 
honesty of students during the Nov-
ember 5 fast. "In fact," he said, 
"more people fasted than signed up. 
Students have changed from 
previous years." 

"I've gotten calls from literally 
every part of the country asking 
what we're doing here," Dobie 
added. He doesn't think that fasting 
is a fad-rather, it reflects a concern 
spontaneously developed in various 
colleges-one that "will be here to 
stay." 

But Dobie recognizes that the 
dining halls' greatest effect comes 
from educating the students. If stu-
dents learn to eat better-waste less 
food, stop overeating, and use less 
meat (which releases grains 
consumed by cattle for human use)-
then the dining halls will have a 
lasting effect on a student's life. 


**Author:  (No author listed)**
**Page number(s): 15**

The Marshall Committee hearing 
provided a forum to air positions 
and opinions of various groups, but 
the work and planning occurred else-
where. 

2 

The YHAP divided itself into five 
sub-committees to investigate an 
inter-college network, an intra-
college organization, research, 
speakers, and long-range planning. 
The intra-college task force, 
headed by Pam Kohlberg '75, 
conducted the "Catalytic Dollar for 
Education" canvass, instituted 
recycling programs, and organized 
three Monday night fasts during 
March. As the residential colleges 
realized their potential they asked 
groups, such as the Free Food Coun-
cil of New Haven, to assign parti-
cular colleges a specific relief pro-
gram within New Haven. 

The task force contacted the Yale 
Daily News and the New Haven 
J oumal-Courier and asked them to 
run a "neediest cases" series like 
the series in the New York Times. 
The YHAP realized that relief 
money does make a difference and 
that their efforts could change the 
attitude of students. But they also 
saw, as did Boyce Rensberger in the 
New York Times, "that the limiting 
factor is the strength and will of 
leaders in government and finance to 
make food production and distri-
bution matters of high national and 
international priorities." Therefore, 
the YHAP conducted a letter 
writing campaign to begin the slow 
process of influencing politicians. 

A second group in the YHAP 
began to coordinate Yale's activities 
with those of other universities. 
Headed by Stefan Pressor '76, and 
Bob Tate, an assistant chaplain, this 
group sent fact sheets, position 
papers, and bibliographies to 250 
major universities. They now have a 
mailing list of 100 schools that 
exchange information and ideas. In 
an effort to organize Northeastern 
colleges into a coherent political base 
students from Tufts, Harvard, and 
Yale called colleges to a meeting in 
Boston on February 15. Thirty col-
leges formed the Northeast Hunger 
Action Alliance (NEHAA) and 
pledged to inform each other of ideas 
developed at their respective col-
leges. 

The NEHAA met in New Haven on 
March 15 and passed the following 
positions regarding "Food Day," 
planned for April 17. 

1- Every individual has the 
Right to a proper diet and ade-
quate food supply. 

2- Corporate policy and wasteful 
consumption habits can not be 
allowed to violate this Right. 

3- To insure this Right, the 
world's existing resources must be 
distributed more equally.lf so dis-
tributed, the world's resources can 
feed everybody. Historically, pop-
ulation growth stabilizes with 
social equality, economic develop-
ment, and adequate food supply. 

4- The world hunger problem is a 
matter of justice and not charity. 
· Food must not be used as a poli-
cal weapon. 

5- We recognise that the food 
crisis is not an isolated phenome-
non but one manifestation of a 
pattern of gross inequality in the 
distribution of wealth, both within 
nations and between nations. 

The YHAP sponsored a series of 
speakers at Yale who exposed stu-
dents to current thoughts and the-
ories about the hunger problem. 
Five speakers have already visited 
and the sixth, Brad Morse, Under 
Secretary-General of the United 
Nations will speak in March. 

3 

To date, the YHAP has collected 
just under $15,000 through fasts and 
private contributions. The fast in 
November amassed $7,173 and the 
three fasts during March will net 
$3,100. 

Each student who fasted on 
November 5 designated where he or 
she wanted the rebate to go. AFRO, 
a Yale group, received $2,941 
and sent the money to the Inter-
state Committee for Relief in the 
Sahel-a U.N. food relief project. 

The Free Food Council in New 
Haven distributed $2,291 worth 
of food to people who couldn't 
pay for both heat and food. The 
Bible Medical Society transfered the 
remaining $1,941 for food and 
medical aid in Bangladesh. 

The YHAP donated the $3,100 
collected in the March fasts to 
the Free Food Council. Early in the 
winter, FFC received hundreds of 
calls a week for food but had none 
to distribute. True, the money sent 
to people in New Haven didn't go to 
people dying in Africa, but it did aid 
many who might develop eye 
diseases and other ailments resulting 
from deficient diets. "Besides," added 
Coffin, "one doesn't have to apolo-
gize for small acts of mercy." 

Four groups compose the Free 
Food Council: Christian Union, 
which serves the area behind Payne-
Whitney gymnasium, Christian 
Community Action, which works in 
the Hill neighborhood near the Yale-
New Haven Hospital, Fairhaven 
Ministry, which is located ten miles 
northeast of Yale, and Fish, which 
has no neighborhood center but de-
livers food to the homes of people 
in emergency situations- such as 
people who have been mugged or had 
their rent, utilities, or fuel rates 
raised beyond their means. 

Christian Community Action fed 
over 150 families in January, not on 
a full time basis but only when the 
families couldn't last on their insuf-
ficient welfare checks. 

Fish delivered meals to 1,300 
people- or about 260 families - in 
January. In September when the 
heating bill was lower and inflation 
less severe, they fed only 76 families. 

"Connecticut is a wealthy state," 
said Bob Martin, the only paid per-
son in Fish, a group maintained by 
200 volunteers. "But the welfare 
system is screwed to begin with. 
And this winter was bad." 

page 11 

"For instance," added David 
Nehring from the Christian Com-
munity Action group, "if a person 
only has $45 yet has a certificate 
from the State to let him buy 
$50 of food stamps he can't 
buy any stamps unless he has 
the whole $50. That's where we 
help." 

And there were other sources of 
money besides the fast. When Tom 
W eiskel, a Yale English professor, 
died on December 1 the family asked 
for contributions to hunger relief-
instead of flowers - to commemorate 
Mr. Weiskel's life. These people 
donated $1,100. 

The Symphony Orchestra, 
Russian Chorus, Yale Band, and 
people interested in Jazz volunteered 
concerts to publicize the YHAP and 
raise money. 

On his own initiative John Espy 
'76, collected books and asked Mr. 
Whitlock, of Whitlock Books on 
Broadway Avenue, to sell them. Mr. 
Whitlock agreed if Espy would price 
the books so that the project would 
stay in the hands of students. Prices 
ranged from ten cents to a few dol-
lars. Books came from solicitations 
at Dwight Hall, Battell Chapel, and 
the sign in front of the boo!t store. 

"I had never thought of this," 
said Mr. Whitlock. "From the end of 
November to February 8 we earned 
$1,062.33. It seems that we've 
got a sure-fire formula to raise 
money for whatever you want." 

(continued on page 14) 

**Blue Butterflies with Razor Beaks**
**Author: JohnS. Rosenberg**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Blue Butterflies with Razor Beaks 
by JohnS. Rosenberg 
Here at the New Yorker, by Brendan 
Gill. Random House. $12.95 
"My intention is to follow the prin-
ciple upon which the 'Talk of the 
Town' department of the magazine is 
based: I will try to cram these para-
graphs full of facts and give them a 
weight and shape no greater than 
that of a cloud of blue butterflies." 

An admirably lucid statement of pur-
pose, and no wonder: for the subject 
of this book is The New Yorker, a 
magazine we admire for its precise 
and vigorous writing; and its author 
is Brendan Gill, a "lifer" at the mag-
azine, who through his millions of 
words has contributed much toward 
bringing it to excellence. The book is 
his present to the magazine on its 
fiftieth birthday. 

Yet Gill is disingenuous, even 
wicked. For Here at The New Yorker 
presents not the whole of the maga-
zine, but only its past, on which our 
parents and professors cut their 
teeth. The magazine's past stands to 
its present as the Yale of Brendan 
Gill's college years is to Yale today: 
behind the aristocratic facade and 
posturing of each institution lay 
much unhappiness and cruelty. 

Today the magazine's reporters dis-
sect much that is cruel in our society, 
just as the current Yale questions 
the presumptions of many of its 
graduates. Though dressing it up, 
Gill opens the magazine's past to the 
same treatment. Those leisurely 
swarms of blue butterflies conceal 
razor beaks and sharp talons. 

Brendan Gill, by his account, 
leads-and always has led-an 
almost insufferably happy life. It is 
this which so marks him from his 
colleagues at The New Yorker. 
"Happy writers have histories short-
er even than happy families," Gill 
writes. In his case this is true 
because of his demonstrable happi-
ness; but too many of his colleagues 
lived terribly short lives, mostly 
without any happiness at all. The 
magazine is wise to protect its stars 
from the public eye, for they are a 
wretched lot of misfits; now that Gill 
has by his zeal interrupted their 
"daily naps," we are forced to pick 
through the laundry, trying to match 
these maimed people to the brilliance 
of their clothes. 

Gill's youth fit nicely the purposes 
of the magazine under its founder, 
Harold Wallace Ross. The New 
Yorker was to be a journal for 
dandies, dedicated to the night club 
life of the 1920's. Ross, a comfortable 
bigot, thirsted for facts, for style, for 
graceful cocktail chatter. Upon dis-
covering that the Vienna phone com-
pany played an "A" for its custom-
ers who wanted to tune their instru-
ments, Ross assigned a reporter to 
call the number overseas, and to 
write it up. Brilliant reporting, about 
trifles. In a New Yorker this Febru-
ary, some other faceless writer called 
up the New York Times' computer 
typesetting equipment, to report on 
the sharp "F" it sang into the tele· 
phone. The more things change ... 

Gill began his career among 
writers. Pampered through baby-
hood and prep school by a rich doc-
tor father in Hartford, in the com-
pany of Wallace Stevens and Yeats, 
Gill landed at Yale. In his senior year 
he edited the centennial edition of 
the Yale Lit and was a Bones man. 
Brash, he burst out laughing when 
Robert Frost recited the word 
"bones" during a reading of "The 
Witch of Coos" in Pierson. Frost 
icily terminated his readi.ng, and his 
visit to Yale. Gill got over his embar-
rassment and finished his senior year 
easily when his English tutor blew 
his brains out. 

Undaunted by the sordidness of 
the adult world, Brendan married 
upon graduation, and his father gen-
erously set the young couple up with 
a Connecticut farm, and gave them 
a honeymoon tour of Europe, much 
of it in the company of the Yale 
Glee Club. After a performance by 
the Whiffenpoofs in Munich, "it 
appeared that Hitler had found 'To 
the Tables Down at Mory's' especial-
ly endearing, and he congratulated 
J. Merrill Knapp, the chief Whiff. 
and first editor of The New Yorker. 
"I have always held it against 
Knapp," Gill says, "that at that 
moment he didn't leap upon Der 
Fuhrer and strangle him to death 
with his bare hands, thereby, at the 
expense of a single human life-his 
own, to be sure-preventing the out-
break of the Second World War." 

This is Gill's sole political reflection 
in the book, and possibly in his life; 
significantly, Gill thinks of the epi-
sode in terms of strangling-the 
work of the hands-and never in 
terms of words or writing, his truest 
weapons against all the Hitlers in the 
world if he had cared to use them. 

Home again, in the late 1930's, 
Gill wrote up a thinly fictionalized 
account of meeting Sinclair Lewis, a 
friend from the days of compiling the 
centennial Lit, in a Hartford theater. 
The New Yorker accepted it, and its 
author joined the magazine for life, 
with only one interlude. 

What a life it has been, amidst the 
congenitally slovenly, misshapen 
offices of The New Yorker. Nothing 
was ever thrown away or cleaned up: 
painters painted around Thurber's 
graffiti on the hall walls; papers 
accumulated in offices of a galaxy of 
writers, who "tend to be lonely, 
mole-like creatures, who work in 
their own portable if not pleasant 
darkness and who seldom utter a 
sound above a groan." They whined 
and connived against one another, 
consuming themselves in jealousy, 
alcohol, and their life-long-but 
short-lived-unhappinesses. How 
they complained, from Ross angered 
about the "coons" moving near his 
country house, to Thurber, delight-
ing in making John O'Hara hate Gill 
and the magazine. Brilliance in writ-
ing, disaster in living. 

We see Shirley Jackson and her 
husband, Stanley Hyman, snuffing 
out their lives: ·having stuffed them-


selves over breakfast, they summon 
the waiter, not for a check, but to 
order the same meal all over again. 

Gill brings us a historic confronta-
tion between Edmund Wilson and 
A.J. Liebling: "Each of them liked 
to talk and each wished to talk at the 
other man but not with him. Liebling 
launched out on an extended aria, to 
which Wilson affected to listen; in 
reality, he was simply watching 
Liebling's chest and waiting for the 
moment when Liebling would have 
to stop talking in order to draw 
breath. The moment came at last, 
and Wilson leapt with a torrent of 
words into the momentary gap ... 
what made the battle all the more 
remarkable was that neither oppon· 
ent relinquished the tiniest part of 
his hold on his own topic of conver· 
sation. Wilson, who was then at the 
height of his interest in the Dead Sea 
Scrolls, roared on contentedly about 
their significance, while Liebling 
mumbled on contentedly about a 
favorite figure of his, the learned 
sportsman Colonel Stingo." 

A remarkable battle between 
titans, each phrase finely turned, 
each thought clear; but did Wilson 
and Liebling thus advance the world, 
or their own understandings, at all? 
Was there more in this thrashing and 
hacking out at each other than the 
struggle of naked intellects, too frail 
to admit the presence of another? 

William Shawn, Ross's successor 
as editor. 

Gill partied his way through his 
friends' lives of misery much as he 
must have partied at Yale, oblivious 
of the Depression outside. Yet at all 
these parties, the men and women of 
The New Yorker never broke down 
its coldness. Some members of the 
magazine worked side by side for 
years,withoutspeaking,without 
making introductions beyond a 
memorable-and, one suspects, 
hardly unique-"Fuck you!" 

How much of life Gill misses at all 
those parties! Gill dedicates his book 
to William Shawn, editor of The New 
YorkersinceJanuary 1952, soon 
after Ross's death, soon before most 
of my generation was born. "For 
more than twenty years it has been 
Shawn's fate to edit a humorous 
magazine that, holding up a mirror 
to life, everywhere reflects the dark- · 
est shadows and yet manages to 
make us laugh." Though Gill's book 
conforms to this spirit, portraying 
the miniature tragedies of his stun-
ning associates, his contribution falls 
far short of Shawn's. 

Shawn introduced significant 
intellectual content into the maga-
zine, slapping it out of the diversions 
of the 1920's. "Better than any other 
editor of our time, he has been able to 
measure the distance of our national 
fall from grace; better than any 
other, he measures today the diffi-
culty of regaining that grace." : 

Today Shawn accomplishes this 
self-appointed task with a new stable 
of writers, who make The New York-
er a political journal. It is the meas-
ure of Gill's world that he excludes 
this new generation of writers. 

Where is Richard Rovere, whose pen 
slashed Joe McCarthy? And Richard 
Harris, exposer of Congress and the 
erosion of civil liberties? What of 
Jonathan Schell and the devastated 
Vietnamese villages, and Rachel 
Carson with the ravished birds, and 
James Baldwin's ghetto? Gill knows 
Liebling the food critic, but ignores 
Liebling the press critic; he takes us 
to the race track with "Audax 
Minor," but not to City Hall with 
Andy Logan, nor down Wall Street 
with John Brooks. 

It was Shawn who persuaded Ross 
to devote an entire issue to John 
Hersey's Hiroshima. Shawn culti-
vated Thomas Whiteside's investiga-
tions of defoliants and cigarette 
advertising, and established the 
trenchant political comment which 
now begins most "Talk of the Town" 
sections. Shawn expanded the maga· 
zine so that it blends E.B. White's 
letters from Maine and Paul 
Brodeur's chronicle of asbestos-
caused cancers. He has mixed Calvin 
Trillin's comments on chili with stor-
ies of oil spills and pesticides. He has 
led and educated his readers. 

· Where was Gill? Still detached, 
reviewing movies and now the 
theater. Gill, loving Shawn too 
much, understood him and his 
work-the two are the same-too 
little. 

This delicious book- tangy and 
coy, as vibrant on every page as The 
New Yorker-is a monument to 
times past, when manners concealed 
passions. They are not the manners 
which we value today, nor which The 
New Yorker's pages have embodied 
for the past decade. Much of Gill's 
way of life is gone, and I am glad he 
so enjoyed it. I appreciate this book, 
not for the things he values, but for 
their contrast to our own beliefs-
as a fine antique. In letting us under-
stand how he has lived, Gill helps us 
to understand better-and to like-
the distance we have travelled from 
that past. How far we have come 
from those people there at The New 
Yorker.O 

John Rosenberg is a senior in 
Silliman Colkge. 


**Yale Hunger Action Project**
**Author: Bob Liechty**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

(continued from page 11) 
" I would like to add," said Scott 
O'Brien, the treasurer and only paid 
worker for the YHAP, "that we keep 
all money separated. For instance, 
the orrly money we use for office ex-
penses is that which is explicitly ear-
marked." 

Many experts agree that the pre-
sent world food situation represents 
a true crisis. The word "crisis" origi-
nated from the medical term-a 
turning point in a fever. Doctors 
knew that the body must work to 
overcome a disease and if the fever 
did not abate the patient would die. 
The world 's industrial fever will last 
until man, hopefully, realizes that 
progress means slowing down. 
"This is a spiritual revolution as 
great as that which led to the advent 
of Christianity," said the anthro-
pologist Claude Levi-Strauss. A 
change like this takes many years. 
The highest hopes of the YHAP 
would be to influence Yale students 
who may one day work in busi-
nesses or government positions that 
affect world affairs. 
"There are 300,000 persons in the 
U.S. who have signed petitions say-
ing they're willing to eat less to feed 
the hungry and the undernour-
ished-this is the people speaking," 
said Herbert Walters, the Chairman 
of the World Hunger Action 
Coalition. 
The fast day organized by Oxfam 
(a world relief organization centered 
in London) on November 21 of last 
year included 400 universities and 
500 church and community groups. 
Students at Grinnel College in 
Grinnel, Iowa, have a weekly hunger 
newspaper and invite speakers regu-
larly to the college. They have initi-
ated seminars on the subject and on 
February 15 devoted five days to dis-
cuss what the students at Grinnel 
College could do. 
High school students at East 
Catholic High School in Manchester , 
Connecticut raised $10,000 in 
The New Journal I March 26, 1975 
a Fast-a-thon whereby merchants 
paid a dollar per hour for a fasting 
student . "A few weeks prior to that 
these students were hardly talking 
about the hunger situation," said 
Bob Tate, a Yale speaker who visited 
Manchester. Spontaneous efforts 
have an effect. 
Most of President Ford's mail for 
the months of December and Janu-
ary concerned the world hunger situ-
ation. Approximately 90 percent fa-
vored increased U.S. relief aid. 
Organizations from all over the 
country have coordinated a Food 
Day on April17 to illustrate a new 
feeling that food, as well as oil, is a 
valuable resource. 
The Yale Hunger Action Project 
does not stand alone in its concern. 
With the proper vision Yale could 
educate scholars, trouble shooters, 
and planners in the field of hunger. 
For lawyers, this may entail chang-
ing the practices of international 
companies -lawyers can advise 
when (and for how much) a company 
should sell its foreign interests back 
to indigenous groups. People in 
multinational corporations have to 
see, and some of them do, that the 
food crisis is not an isolated pheno-
menon. The profit and progress of 
these companies come at the ex-
pense of people in developing coun-
tries. 
On a different level, a student 
could use his talents to work for 
organizations such as Oxfam or 
CARE. 
The burden of the world hunger 
problem rests not on the United 
States nor on the developing coun-
tries: it rests on everyone. Each 
nation has to produce its resources 
as effectively as possible. The United 
States, because of its technological 
and agricultural advances, can afford 
to release some of its citizens to 
coordinate efforts throughout the 
world. People must develop a world 
overview; the problem of world hun-
ger is not restricted to particular 
regions or particular people-ulti-
mately it affects everyone. 0 

Bob Liechty is a member 
ofthe YHAP.


Now that you're enrolled as a student at Yale 
you're also a member of the Association of Yale 
Alumni. For information as to how you may help 
host ret urning alumni, and how to meet Yale 
people wherever you settle, get in touch with 
Alumni House, 320 Temple Street. (203) 432-4150.



**The Snow Chicken**
**Author: Bob Sternbach**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New J oumal I March 26, 1975 
(continued from page 2) 
Only the cars on the streets, perhaps, 
offer a clue. And just as well-for 
this is where you come to forget. It is 
a place uniquely suited for people 
having affairs, for relationships that 
are frowned on by somebody else, or 
somewhere else, for partners meeting 
partners among a crowd grown 
familiar weekend after weekend. In 
the refrigerated darkness, all unions 
seem like a still shot from a long-
silent, long-forgotten movie. There is 
no eroticism, but only the extreme 
voluptuousness of relaxing the will 
and submitting oneself to a scene 
that seems already to have occurred. 
A wise man has said, "If you can't 
make it at the Snow Chicken, you 
can't make it anywhere.'' This, I 
trust, is an exaggeration. The Snow 
Chicken, is a whole world; its rule of 
ritualized flirtation is uncannily 
severe. like the sequence of events in 
a bad dream two nights running, and 
a sure shoot-down awaits anyone 
who looks strange, dances strange, 
or talks strange. On the outside, fall-
ing in love may mean finding out 
about yourself. Here, you make out 
when you're a good snow chicken. 0
Bob Sternbach is a graduate 
student in the English Department.


**Editing my f"rrst [sex] book**
**Author: Bobbi Mark**

When women came to Yale in the fall 
of 1969, sex came out in the open. 
Sex and the Yale Student was an 
information booklet prepared in 1970 
'and put in each ensuing freshman 
packet. This year a committee of 
eleven students rewrote the 'sex 
book' and titled it Sex at Yale. Bobbi 
Mark, co-chairperson of the commit-
tee and co-editor of the book, reflects 
on the task of editing the controver-
sial guide. 

What began as a revision of Sex 
and the Yale Student became a 
major task of rewriting. We wanted 
to avoid the heterosexual bias of the 
original, so we added sections on 
masturbation and homosexuality. 
We changed the 1970 categories of 
Male and Female contraception into 
sections on prescription and non-
prescription methods of contracep-
tion. 

Before we began to write we met 
with our medical advisor, Dr. Phillip 
Sarrel, a gynecologist-obstetrician 
and sex counselor at Yale's Health 
Service. We were astonished at how 
much had changed in the past four 
years: the Pill is no longer a wonder 
drug, IUD's are now safe for women 
who have never been pregnant, new 
pregnancy tests have been devel-
no<'d. and million~ of men have had 
vasectomies. 

Editing copy proved exhausting. 
We preferred to write in the active 
tense, but often found this impos-
sible. The sections on contraception 
were especially difficult, because we 
·were describing passive devices used 
by active people. 

We were surprised by more subtle 
flaws. Many sections used second 
person address: "If you forget to 
take your pill," "If you think you are 
pregnant." The language assumes 
readers to be heterosexual and 
female. The editors spent one hor-
rible night changing "you" to "he or 
she" and "your" to "her or his," 
making the book more impersonal, 
but more objective. 

Extended objectivity made us 
giddy. Simple situations became 
ridiculous. For example, "If your 
condom has burst ... " A woman may 
feel this doesn't apply to her, that 
the clause should be read "If a man 
thinks his ... '' The condom then 
becomes the responsibility of the 
man, and not the couple. Using 
"your" (in the plural sense) would 
rectify this, but might offend those 
who don't use condoms. "If the con-
dom bursts" avoids confusion and 
places blame on the device or its 
inspector. 

We resolved to omit all references 
to promiscuity and were successful, 
except in the section on homosexual-
ity. There we discuss promiscuity 
and fidelity, things never mentioned 
elsewhere in the book. Had any 
homosexual served on the commit-
tee, I suspect this moralizing would 
have been detected. 

The preface and introduction to 
the book establish an attitude 
toward sex, and give meaning to the 
data which follows. The book 
emphasizes that fulfillment of this 
fundamental human need can be 
highly rewarding. 

Sex is a much discussed, often 
practiced and too often confusing 
issue at Yale. For many students, 
their time at Yale is significant in 
their. development as sexual 
beings. Freshmen faced with the 
newness and strangeness of col-
lege life, also find themselves pres-
sured into confronting sexual 
decisions. People in every class 
find that interpersonal relation-
-. hips ar(' affected by the Yale sit-
uat ion h~ · ov('n·rowding. acedemic 
pressure, the male-female ratio, 
dorm living, and dining hall 
eating. Many Yalies claim that 
there is too much sex on campus, 
others say there is too little. Some 
say nothing. Most feel very con-
fused. 

We, the authors of this book, 
are typical of Yale students in that 
we, too, have questions. It would 
be nice if the book had the 
answers. Of course it doesn't. But, 
we hope that by writing this book 
and sponsoring the sexuality 
course, we can bring some of the 
issues into the open and help 
people to share feelings, problems, 
and pleasures with others. 

page 15
never seen an erect penis and to men 
and women who have never seen a 
woman's external sexual organs. 

Dr. Sarrel also thought that the 
pictures were educational. However, 
he voted against them because he 
felt they might upset some students 
and shock some alumni. Both were 
valid objections. But the pictures 
manifest the openess advocated in 
the book. We were trying to dispel, 
not perpetuate, ignorance and myth. 

For weeks we explored the pros 
and cons of using the pictures. A 
large majority of the committee 
always voted in favor of the photo-
graphs. Yet many "yes" votes were 
uncertain. We had nothing concrete 
on which to base our predictions of 
how the pictures would be accepted. 

Very few sex manuals have been 
printed and none contain photo-
graphs of sex organs. The committee 
that wrote Sex and the Yale Student 
gambled by publishing the book. 
Four years later, we felt that we were 
taking a comparable risk. 

During the debate, numerous out-
siders became involved-the printer, 
members of the Yale administration, 
doctors at the health center, lawyers, 
reporters and editors of The New 
York Times. This exaggerated the 
importance of the pictures. The 
members of the committee who were 
vehement about keeping the pictures 
fought for something more than the 
photographs. We upheld the prin-
ciples stressed in the book. Indirect-
The original pamphlet contained 
ly we promoted the equality of 
small photographs of contraceptive 
women. Most objections involved 
devices and stone sculptures. Follow-
the picture of the male. Nude photo-
ing the tone of our introduction, we 
graphs of women have always been 
decided to omit the statues and 
available and acceptable. 

The indecision proved exasperat-
ing and destructive. I felt pulled 
between my co-editor who was very 
emotional and defen~ive about the 
pictures, and other people (whom I 
respected) who were against using 
them. I was numb-almost indiffer-
ent-from months of talking and 
writing about sex and the clinical 
and unemotional aspects of birth 
control and anatomy. It became clear 
that making a decision was more 
important than what that decision 
was. We decided to use the pictures. 

As editors, we were tired of taking 
everyone's opinion into considers-
tion when the decision and respon-
sibility for it belonged to us. We 
began to anticipate that other people 
would be irresponsible or inefficient; 
and the committee reprimanded us 
for not delegating authority. But the 
demands of an editor are not those of 
a chairman. We were working on a 
project with deadlines that had to be 
met. When the book was finished we 
were all exhausted, but grudgingly 
proud. The warmth and honesty we 
began with were in the text. And 
next year's freshman will have a 
better idea of what "Sex at Yale" is, 
or should be. 0
Bobbi Mark, a junior in Davenport, 
co-edited Sex at Yale.



SHERWOOD 
S70 1 0 Stereo Receiver 
e BSR 226QX Auto-Turntable w/ 
Mag. Cart. 
e BMI 2-way Speaker System 
(Our speakers with Brands Mart 
MARANTZ 
2245 Stereo Receiver 
There's a new man on campus, Carnivorous Fair-tradeus, better known as 
Carney. 

One might take him for Greek, but no, he's typically American, 
fighting on your side against inflation. 

Although of the common-man 
variety, he is a confidant of the greatest names in audio and is able to 
wheedle some unheard-of-concessions from them. If you know anything 
at all about audio equipment - then you'll 
recognize Carney's offerings below as the out-
standing bargains of the day. 

And if you're 
not an audiophile, but enjoy good sounds --
come in and talk to the big man -- he'll put 
<1o 
aooo 
eo 
!0 
you straight. 
· _;_ (l 0 Q · 9 0 Q 
..!_, 
DUAL 
1229 Automatic Turntable 
e AR XBTT Manual Turntable 
e Pickering XV 15-400E Mag. Cart. 
e Aitex 886A 2-way Speaker Sys. 
and cover 
• Pickering XV 15-400E 
5-yr. replacement wty.) 
RETA IL $1,004.00 
RETAI L $353.95 
~:~RICE $229 ~~I~E $599
95 
~~I~E $189 
R ETAIL $209.95 
M91 ED Magnetic Cartridge 
RETAIL $.s;4.00 
OUR 
PRICE 
139 $16 
IF YOU DON'T HAVE YOUR 
BRANDS MART CARD 
you're missing out on some great 
"closed door" savings opportunities 
"I've got an insatiable appetite 
for bargains - - but not at the 
expense of quality. It's highly 
infectious - so we're forced to be 
a closed door showroom. 
To get in to 
Brands Mart, 
you must bring 
your student's 1.0. 
or Brands Mart 
Courtesy Card. 

