Publication date: November 2023
Volume: 56
Issue number: 2


**MASTHEAD**
Editors-in-Chief: Jabez Choi, Abbey Kim
Executive Editor: Paola Santos
Managing Editor: Kylie Volavongsa
Verse Editors: Amal Biskin, Cleo Maloney
Senior Editors: Meg Buzbee, Jesse Goodman, Nicole Dirks, Zachary Groz, Lazo Gitchos, Jasmine Wright, Ella Goldblum
Associate Editors: Naina Agrawal-Hardin, Chloe Nguyen, Kinnia Cheuk, John Nguyen, Viola Clune, Ingrid Rodríguez Vila, Grace Ellis, Netanel Schwartz, Aanika Eragam, Maggie Grether, Samantha Liu
Copy Editors: Yvonne Agyapong, Iz Klemmer, Connor Arakaki, Adam Levine, Lilly Chai, Victoria Siebor, Mia Cortés Castro
Podcast Editors: Meg Buzbee, Anya Razmi, Grace Ellis, Suraj Singareddy, Chloe Nguyen, Adam Winograd
Creative Director: Chris de Santis
Design Editors: Tashroom Ahsan, Cate Roser, Sarah Feng, Jessica Sánchez, Alicia Gan, Daniela Woldenberg, Angela Huo, Ashley Zheng, Lily Lin
Photography: Nithya Guthikonda, Makda Assefa, Ellie Park, Serena Ulammandakh, Nour Tantush


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
Mass Education - Aanika Eragam
points of departure - Christina Lee
points of departure - Alina Vaidya Mahadevan
criticals - Tashroom Ahsan
snapshots - Josie Reich
Front Women - Sophia Liu
Kinks in the Movement - Viola Clune
Terminal E-O15 - Diya Naik
crossword: Superwoman House Tour Blondie, by Adam Winograd, page 55.
The God of Speed and Distant Messages - Cal Barton
flash fiction - Maggie Grether
personal essays - Caleb Dunson
A Distant Mentorship - Danya Blokh
The Age of Looking - Suraj Singareddy
aside - Tina Li
photo essay - Ángela Pérez


**Title: Letter from the editors**
**Author: The Managing Board**
**Page number(s): 2**

Dear readers,
This issue traces what it means to be free. What do we do under confines? 
How do we escape them? You’ll find that, in the face of restrictions, people 
are not stagnant beings. We fight, sing, write, organize, and disband, but we 
are never still. 

The search for liberation is located in this movement. Some find freedom 
through education, as Aanika Eragam explores in her cover story on the 
Yale Prison Education Initiative. Others find it in bodily autonomy, in giving 
birth how and where they want, as Maggie Grether reports. And Viola 
Clune shows us that within these movements there is continual growth, 
especially in places like Black hair salons that tie ever-changing generations 
together.

And oftentimes, liberation flourishes in unlikely transgressions—rock music, 
motorcycling, vandalism. Freedom through games like Go that trace the 
diaspora, through social media videos that broadcast across oceans. Freedom 
to be beautiful and hot, to push against expectations for excellence.

This desire for liberation does not exist in a vacuum. In New Haven 
and beyond, we hope for a world where people are free to exist without 
persecution or threat of violence. We hold in the light those whose freedom 
has been challenged, denied, or altogether silenced. 

In the meantime, we hope to elevate these stories of rebellion, liberation, and 
joy. We, as Aanika writes, think about wholeness.
TNJ Love,
The Managing Board 


**Title: Thank you to our donors**
**Author: N/A**

*Donated twice. Thank you!
Neela Banerjee*
Anson M. Beard
James Carney
Andrew Court 
Romy Drucker 
Jeffrey Foster 
David Gerber 
David Greenberg* 
Matthew Hamel
Makiko Harunari 
James Lowe 
Chaitanya Mehra
Ben Mueller 
Sarah Nutman 
Peter Phleger 
Jeffrey Pollock
Adriane Quinlan 
Elizabeth Sledge 
Gabriel Snyder 
Fred Strebeigh 
Arya Sundaram
Stuart Weinzimer
Steven Weisman 
Suzanne Wittebort
Members & Directors: Emily Bazelon • Haley Cohen 
Gilliland • Peter Cooper • Andy Court • Jonathan Dach • 
Susan Dominus • Kathrin Lassila • Elizabeth Sledge • Fred 
Strebeigh • Aliyya Swaby
Advisors: Neela Banerjee • Richard Bradley • Susan 
Braudy • Lincoln Caplan • Jay Carney • Joshua Civin • 
Richard Conniff • Ruth Conniff • Elisha Cooper • David 
Greenberg • Daniel Kurtz-Phelan • Laura Pappano • 
Jennifer Pitts • Julia Preston • Lauren Rawbin • David 
Slifka • John Swansburg • Anya Kamenetz • Steven 
Weisman • Daniel Yergin
Friends: Nicole Allan • Margaret Bauer • Mark Badger and 
Laura Heymann • Anson M. Beard • Susan Braudy • Julia 
Calagiovanni • Elisha Cooper • Peter Cooper • Andy 
Court The Elizabethan Club • Leslie Dach • David 
Freeman and Judith Gingold • Paul Haigney and 
Tracey Roberts • Bob Lamm • James Liberman • Alka 
Mansukhani • Benjamin Mueller • Sophia Nguyen • 
Valerie Nierenberg • Morris Panner • Jennifer Pitts • R. 
Anthony Reese • Eric Rutkow • Lainie Rutkow • Laura 
Saavedra and David Buckley • Anne-Marie Slaughter • 
Elizabeth Sledge • Caroline Smith • Gabriel Snyder • 
Elizabeth Steig • John Jeremiah Sullivan • Daphne and 
David Sydney • Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather • 
Blake Townsend Wilson • Daniel Yergin • William Yuen
Check out our new podcast on our website!
Join our mailing list!



--- Page 3 ---

**Title: poems**
**Page number(s): 3**

image credits: Karen Pearson (TOP, FRONT, BACK); 
Nithya Guthikonda (BOTTOM)
poems
You Sat Low 	
	
	
	
	
With Me
By Netanel Schwartz
Tau Gallicum 	 	
	
	
By Asher Hurowitz
Contents
18
4
17
6
54
26
51
50
41
8
13
12
42
53
38
44
Mass Education
The Yale Prison Education Initiative brings 
prestige and power into nearby prisons—but 
not without a cost.
By Aanika Eragam
cover story
points of departure
Christina Lee finds an unexpected community in New 
Haven's Go Club
First-year Alina Vaidya Mahadevan explores life at Yale behind 
the camera.
criticals
When the Paint Dries
Where did all of Yale's graffiti go?
By Tashroom Ahsan
snapshots
No Brakes
A writer rides the whirlwind of New Haven’s biking scene. 
By Josie Reich
Front Women
For four years in the seventies, the New Haven Women’s Liberation 
Rock Band brought fiery feminism across the East Coast.
By Sophia Liu
Kinks in the Movement 
A writer braids together the stories of New Haven's Black hair salons 
with her own.  
By Viola Clune
Terminal E-O15
By Diya Naik
crossword: Superwoman House Tour Blondie, 
by Adam Winograd, page 55.
The God of Speed and Distant Messages
By Cal Barton
flash fiction
30
Delivery Fee
Local doulas and midwives struggle to offer 
critical birth services among rising maternal 
mortality rates and shrinking care.
By Maggie Grether
personal essays
Resisting Collapse
What is the cost of excellence?
By Caleb Dunson
A Distant Mentorship
A student reflects on the criti­
cisms, poetry, and teachings of 
Louise Glück.
By Danya Blokh
The Age of Looking
A writer parses through 
hotness and beauty.
By Suraj Singareddy
aside
Home Amidst Ink and Pulp
By Tina Li
photo essay
By Ángela Pérez



**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author: Christina Lee**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
4
November 2023          TheNewJournal
Points of Departure
Across the Board
At first, I thought I was on the wrong 
floor of the library. I had just gotten off 
a phone call with my parents. Their sur­
prise at the existence of a Go Club in 
New Haven heightened my excitement 
to uncover its existence for myself. I had 
anticipated wooden Go tables sprawled 
out across an open floor in a small, 
closed-off section of the library. My par­
ents teased that I would be out of place. 
Baduk—the Korean name for Go—is an 
old person’s game.

Perhaps there would be rice crackers 
and dried squid, and I would have to be 
prepared to introduce myself in Korean. 
I was worried the elders might find my 
questions bothersome; the church elders 
I knew weren’t always fond of gameplay 
interruptions. But the prospect of meet­
ing Korean American elders in New 
Haven excited me nonetheless. 

The Korean American Students at 
Yale newsletter introduced me to the 
New Haven Go Club. Hearing about 
the club prompted me to trace back 
the spaces I associate with Go. In cele­
bration of Lunar New Year, the Korean 
American church in my hometown 
transforms its cafeteria into a hall brim­
ming with Korean dishes and snacks, 
church members wearing hanboks, and a 
large spread of traditional games. Lining 
one side of the cafeteria, pairs of Korean 
elders play long, silent matches of Baduk 
against the backdrop of lively festivities. 

A similar sight awaits at the Korean 
sauna: in the recreational area, next to 
the chess boards, are Baduk boards with 
small bowls of black and white stones 
placed neatly next to them.

For me, Baduk is an emblem of the 
diasporic Asian community, finding its 
way into churches on Long Island, sau­
nas in New Jersey, and libraries in New 
Haven. It embodies the post-colonial, 
diasporic Korean experience in its very 
essence: a strategy game of conquest 
and capture, sacrifice and liberty, life 
and death.

As I descended the New Haven Free 
Public Library stairs, I saw no elders or 
young Korean students. It was all white 
people. But the Go boards—with their 
sure grids and black and white stones—
were unmistakable. Four people hunched 
around a long white folding table. And 
Quentin Bateux-Mocquard was one of 
them, just about to start his first match.

Bateux-Mocquard, the club founder 
and a postdoctoral researcher at Yale, 
enjoys abstract games and logic: a reflec­
tion of his background in computer 
science. He first heard of Go as a boy 
through Hikaru no Go, a manga about 
a boy possessed by a Go player from 
Japan’s Heian period. But it wasn’t until 
2015, when AlphaGo became the first 
Go computer program to defeat a pro­
fessional player, that Bateux-Mocquard 
revisited Go as an adult. That technolog­
ical feat intrigued Bateux-Mocquard. He 
began playing Go through local clubs 
across France. 

Bateux-Mocquard, with a smiley 
demeanor and an eagerness to teach, 
walked me through my first game of Go. 
I had never played before and found it 
funny that a white man in New Haven 
was the first one to teach me. I don’t have 
a talent for abstract strategy games and 
struggled to foresee obvious formations 
and predict Bateux-Mocquard’s moves. 
But Bateux-Mocquard is especially sea­
soned in teaching total beginners. He 
taught me all the basic components and 
strategies. The term “Atari,” for exam­
ple, refers to when a stone or a group 
of stones can be captured on the next 
move by the opponent—similar to a 
check in chess. I found myself in Atari 
quite frequently. 

Next to us sat John Grisafi. He was 
more soft-spoken than Bateux-Mocquard
but sometimes looked up from his own 
game to chime in with advice on cleaner 
ways to play. Grisafi is a fifth-year gradu­
ate student at Yale with a focus in Asian 
religions and has previously researched 
U.S. military occupations in South Korea. 
His research, as well his marriage to a 
Korean person, drove him to explore 
Korean hobbies. “I was exposed to the 
game after initially being exposed to 
Janggi,” he says as he deliberates his next 
move, talking through his turn. Janggi 
is a chess variant played in Korea on a 9 
inch by 10 inch gameboard. Grisafi owns a 
board with Janggi layouts on one side and 
Go on the other. After a year and a half 
of playing the Janggi board, he decided to 
flip it over and try the Go side. 

Grisafi has helped Bateux-Mocquard 
advertise the club by reaching out to Yale 
student organizations like the Ancient 
Chinese Traditions Club. Both men are 
committed to growing the club for the 
same reason: personal connection. 

Bateux-Mocquard’s motivation for 
starting the club in March of this year 
grew out of a frustration with the lack 
of connection in playing Go online. “I 
need the balance of being able to actually 
see people and play and chat and play 
against a lot of different levels, and teach 
sometimes.” He adds that seeing people 
face-to-face motivates him.

Grisafi, who started playing through 
apps, also acknowledges the merit of 
playing in-person: “I was in Daegu, 
Korea, and I was at a park and saw older 
men playing. It’s seeing people play it in 
person that really rekindles your interest 
in doing so.” 

Halfway into the club meeting, 
Justin Kim arrived, a newcomer to the 
Go club and a Korean American grad­
uate student at Yale. He was the only 
other Asian person in attendance and 
had joined in interest of playing in per­
son. Kim, who grew up playing with his 
brother, says, “It makes it much more 
human…it’s nice to talk to someone and 
chat before and after or just have small 
talk during it.” 

Kim adds that there is an added layer 
of excitement that comes with play­
ing against real people—it heightens 
the stakes. He recalls his experiences of 
playing against chess hustlers in New 
York City, where putting money down 
made him even more exhilarated to play. 
Similarly, the dynamic of a Go game 
transforms when your opponent is sit­
ting right in front of you, even with no 
money involved. 

Teaching, watching, and chatting 
comprised the ethos of the members’ 
interactions at the club meeting. Before 
a game, members would negotiate how 
to even the playing field, often play­
ing someone with more or less expe­
rience. At the end of a game, players 
would deliberate moves they should’ve 
taken and exchange analyses of the 
other’s game. Throughout the games, 
members also shared anime recommen­
dations and bonded over their love for 
Californian cities. For a club I expected 
to be a silent, meditative escape from the 
rainy weather, the session was brimming 
with jokes—the club was asked to quiet 
down three times by library personnel. 
By the end of the session, all three of 
the remaining members huddled around 
Kim and Bateux-Mocquard’s game, 
watching intently and offering lively 
commentary.  

I did not leave the club meeting 
any better at Baduk than I did walking 
in. The terms, ironically, still feel foreign 
to me—atari, liberties, ladders. I cannot 
inherit Baduk: my parents and cousins 
in America do not play, and the ones 
that might live fifteen hours away. And 
yet I can walk five minutes to the New 
Haven Free Public Library, where a 
small piece of this uninherited culture 
is nestled tightly into a community that 
handles it with care.∎
Christina Lee is a sophomore in 
Davenport College.
layout design and Title Illustration by Cate Roser


**Author:  [Author Name Not Provided]**
**Page number(s): 6**

6
Unsubscribing
F
rom my home in Mumbai, I 
devoured all of Aimee Catherine’s 
vlogs. “LIVING LIKE RORY GILMORE FOR 
A DAY AT YALE UNIVERSITY.” “Harvard-
Yale Game 2021 | ‘The Game’ Vlog.” 
“college weekend in my life at yale.”

Each left me in awe of the life she 
leads at Yale, and more excited to come 
here in the fall.

Now Catherine ’25 sits in front of me 
in the Morse common room. She’s taller 
than I expected, a wonderful listener, 
and refreshingly down-to-earth. The 
Yale junior also has more than twenty 
thousand subscribers on YouTube, a sig­
nificant share of which are high school 
girls. I look at her with a mix of awe and 
anticipation, incredulous to be talking to 
the same person whose weekly videos I 
once watched religiously.

She'd sketched out Yale with the 
tools I would need to succeed here. I 
thought I knew Yale; I thought I knew 
her—it turns out, I know neither.

“I center my content around my life­
style, a big part of which is Yale,” she 
tells me. “It’s a way for me to channel 
my creativity and document my experi­
ences, and was never meant to be a gen­
eralization of what Yale is for everyone.”

I logically know that Catherine and 
campus influencers are not complicit in 
the discrepancy between the content 
they produce and the resulting image 
they create for their followers. And yet, 
I can’t help but feel deceived.

Until I arrived at Yale this August, 
I was one of those many followers, con­
vinced that life at Yale was as perfect 
as it looked online, with the First-Year 
Dinner and East Rock hikes and picnics 
on a beautiful fall day that influencers 
advertised. It didn’t take long for the 
rosy camera lens to fog.

I grew up in Mumbai—coming to 
Yale meant not only a transition from 
high school to college but also a fun­
damental cultural adjustment. For the 
first time, I found myself in several 
situations where I was the only brown 
person in the room—some references 
went over my head, and my accent 
often felt uncomfortably distinct. Never 
before had my Indian identity felt so 
pronounced, as I fielded questions like 
“How on Earth is your English so good?” 
and “If you’re from India, how did you 
get into Yale?” 

I am not alone in this isolation. 
Fellow international students echo sim­
ilar struggles—the lack of our represen­
tation on social media, the differences 
between the one-size-fits-all Yale expe­
rience and the one we have.

“We see glimpses of what it’s like to 
be at Yale,” my friend and fellow first-
year Mansi Anil Kumar ’27 told me, 
“but never what it’s like to be at Yale as 
an international student.” Indian stu­
dents at Yale like Mansi have become 
my makeshift home and family, people 
that I cannot imagine my life here with­
out. The hashtags and TikToks never 
talk about the intense homesickness 
and loneliness that several of us have 
experienced given the huge transition 
we are making. 

It can feel difficult to move beyond 
the constructed image of Yale online to 
a real one—one beyond the myth. 

Some of my happiest moments have 
been in the last few months. My intel­
lectual curiosity has never felt as nur­
tured, my friends are some of the most 
wonderful people I have had the privi­
lege of meeting, and I have truly started 
to feel at home here. But, this semester 
has also been rife with moments of self-
doubt and imposter syndrome, with 
the constant doubt of whether I truly 
deserve to be here. 

Curious about the image Yale influ­
encers seek to present, I also talked to 
Emme Zhou ’23, an influencer known 
for her Yale dining hall content. Her 
“come get a meal with me at Yale!” 
TikToks went viral, accumulating mil­
lions of views. I remember obsessively 
rewatching her videos and salivating 
over apple pancake brunches. Talking 
to her was surreal. She was the same 
Emme who was my primary source of 
information about Yale dining halls, 
the same Emme whose food content 
has made all my friends at other univer­
sities bitterly jealous. 

“I wasn’t providing thoughts and 
opinions on the Yale experience, I was 
just showcasing what we have,” Zhou 
told me. Living in Pauli Murray, her 
“daily breakfast was delicious,” and she 
aimed to let her viewers draw their own 
conclusions about life at Yale. Of course, 
Zhou did not advertise that she was an 
employee of Yale Hospitality as a stu­
dent worker—even if she told me that 
payment did not impact her content. 

While talking to her, I realize that 
this disparity between the “Yale” that 
influencers portray and the “Yale” we 
imagine is an unintended consequence 
of being an influencer at Yale. But, to 
be perfectly honest, she did set the bar 
high with her cannoli pancake-filled 
montages—a bar that my daily salad 
and hummus could never dream of liv­
ing up to. 

Both Catherine and Zhou seemed 
careful not to generalize the Yale expe­
rience to everyone. But, their wide 
reach—particularly when Catherine’s 
viewer demographics consist mostly of 
high schoolers—means that there is a 
fine line between “showcasing” a Yale 
experience and having that become the 
standard for future Yalies. 

These influencers are situated in a 
much broader network of Yale’s care­
fully curated online presence. Their 
work begs the question: Who should be 
held accountable for crafting the ideal­
ized myth of Yale?

Perhaps more pervasive—if sub­
tle—is the Yale Admissions Office and 
other Yale administrative presences 
online. I remember coming across an 
admissions blog titled “What are Yale 
Youtubers,” which publicized a Harvard-
Yale game day vlog, Catherine’s “FIRST 
DAY OF COLLEGE AT YALE UNIVERSITY | 
Freshman Year!” video, among several 
other influencers’ YouTube channels. 

Beyond just promoting these pages,



**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author: Alina Vaidya Mahadevan**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The adminstration has also taken on an 
influencer role itself.  
“Day in the Life” reels are no lon­
ger restricted to influencers’ Instagrams; 
they are all over Yale’s admissions 
account. The image of Yale that influ­
encers portray becomes far more official 
in creating a specific perception of Yale 
when it is endorsed by Yale channels. 
Yale’s social media presence is filled 
with these student-made videos, with 
administrators encouraging students 
to toe the line between student and 
influencer. It seems a new frontier of 
advertising has opened up—one that 
relies on faux candid sixty second vid­
eos and maximizing online buzz.

Before I came here, Yale occupied 
an unattainable standard in my mind. 
Everyone was living a life that looked 
straight out of a movie, one that I just 
couldn’t seem to capture. Now I’ve come 
to love Yale much more. Instead of long­
ing for only the picture perfect, I revel in 
the tangible, quiet moments of reflection. 
I revel in the mundane.∎	

Alina Vaidya Mahadevan is a 
first-year in Morse College.



**Title: Snapshot**
**Author: Josie Reich**
**Page number(s): 8**

Debi Killer talks me through 
her trauma like it’s a grocery 
list. Abusive household. Alcoholic 
father. Foster system at 11. Near-fatal car 
accident at 16. Breast cancer. Stroke and 
complete paralysis at 52. Milk. Eggs. No 
four-leaf clovers. But Killer doesn’t see 
herself as unlucky.
“I’ve had a lot of miracles in my life,” 
she remarks with the throaty voice of 
a sure smoker. There’s nothing divine 
about her endurance, though. She’s just 
tough. “Killer” is a name her friends gave 
the gritty 11-year-old Debi to help her 
remain unidentified when she ran away 
from home. At 62, the faint haunt in her 
eyes tells you she’s had to be as cutthroat 
as the title.
And yet, those eyes are the last 
thing you notice about Killer. They’re 
shielded by her head-to-toe baby-pink 
outfit. Her glasses, bandana, vest, biking 
gloves, sneakers, and lipstick all match 
so closely that you’d think she dyed 
them herself. They also match the bright 
pink ’78 Shovelhead motorcycle that 
she’s been riding for over forty years––
and still rides after making a complete 
recovery from her stroke.
“Because my past was so hard and 
so rough, this is my escape,” she says 
of riding motorcycles. “A lot of peo­
ple bike for that freedom, that relief of 
trauma that they dealt with in life.”
Killer is the president of the 
Connecticut Women Motorcycle Club 
Nomads, a female motorcycle group that 
also holds events to advocate for breast 
cancer awareness. She has seen the num­
ber of female bikers riding in Connecticut 
grow exponentially during her lifetime. 
She founded the group in 1987 with twelve 
“sisters.”  Today, forty-five women ride with 
the Club.
Killer is full of laughter and quick 
with aphorisms. She doesn’t project 
ferocity. She explains that it’s because 
she, along with most of those she’s rid­
den with throughout her life, values 
respect above all else: “It's brotherhood, 
sisterhood, we're tight-knight. If some­
one's broken down on the side of the 
road, I don't care if I know them or not, 
I'm pulling over.”
Biking is all about the community, 
I’m told over and over by bikers across 
the city. Being a biker doesn’t mean just 
owning a bike—it’s when you bike with 
others that you truly become a biker.
Jordan Voss, a 40-year-old biker 
from West Haven, put it simply: “Biking 
alone is like having a party by yourself.” 
It’s an oxymoron. 
Like many bikers I spoke to, Voss 
feels close to the biker community despite 
being unaffiliated with a particular group. 
Five bikers told me that it’s normal to 
ride with different groups on different 
days, joining larger crowds to attend bik­
ing events in far-flung cities. According to 
Killer, there are too many biking groups to 
count, and various groups handle mem­
bership differently. She accepts new riders 
based on a vote of current members along 
the criteria of “no lies, no drugs, no trou­
ble, and no negativity.”
I sit with Voss on cushy leather 
couches in the back of the Owl Shop 
cigar lounge. He smokes Blondie cigars 
and sips bourbon, trading flirty insults 
with the waitress as she comes by. He 
turns the conversation in unexpected 
directions, first toward the Israel-
Hamas war, then to DeSantis versus 
Trump. Then, in an effort to find some 
point of connection between us, Voss 
draws a metaphor. Biking is like being 
an overseas journalist, he says. “You’re so 
motivated to become part of that indus­
try that you’d put yourself in danger.”
Court charges and broken limbs are 
the price some bikers pay to claim the 
identity and image they romanticize—
free, cool, part of something.
Biking is, indeed, an industry: Cue 
Gabriel Canestri Jr. and Salvatore Fusco, 
two bikers based out of New Haven who 
have turned the activity into a business 
and a source of fame. Both men have 
hundreds of thousands of followers on 
Instagram and post videos that regu­
larly garner millions of views. The rapper 
Drake follows Canestri, and 19.2 million 
people have viewed a video the biker 
posted of himself riding a completely 
vertical bike inside the clubhouse where 
he and Fusco work.



**Title: No Brakes**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

“It’s brotherhood, sisterhood, we’re tight-knit. If someone’s broken down on 
the side of the road, I don’t care if I know them or not, I’m pulling over.”

“—people bike 
for that freedom, 
that relief.”

“EVERYTHING WILL KILL YOU.  CHOOSE 
SOMETHING FUN.”
The words loom over the Hole in 
the Wall clubhouse, better known to 
bikers as “The Shop.” Tucked behind an 
abandoned church, The Shop is home 
to the New Haven-based motorcy­
cle merchandise and hard parts brand 
Eastcoastin Crew. The large, open-air 
garage is filled with gleaming Harley-
Davidsons. The walls are plastered with 
stickers and spray-painted tags boast­
ing slogans so stereotypical they come 
across as ironic.
Canestri and Fusco, co-owners 
of Eastcoastin, run up and down the 
clubhouse ramp, wide enough only 
for a single wheel. They tend to the 
bikes with purpose and urgency, halt­
ing their constant motion only to 
noogie the shop dogs. Fusco coaxes 
the handlebar of a bike with precise 
twists of his fingers, his hands black 
with grease.
When Canestri and Fusco started 
Eastcoastin in 2017, it revolutionized 
the New Haven bike scene. They were 
among the first people to attempt 
advanced stunts on Harley-Davidsons, 
which are larger and heavier than other 
motorcycles. The average motorcycle 
weighs about 430 pounds; most Harleys 
weigh between 540 and 905 pounds. 
On these bikes, the men attempt tricks 
such as stoppies, lifting the back wheel


layout design by Alicia gan
Photographs courtesy of Josie Reich.



**No Brakes**
**Author: Josie Reich**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
up to meet the ground with their eyes, 
and wheelies, hoisting the front wheel 
to hang, suspended horizontally, off the 
back of the bike. Canestri and Fusco’s 
gravity-defying, 
eye-widening 
tricks 
carved out a name for New Haven in 
the biking world, drawing many more 
bikers to the area and more of those 
already in the area to biking.
“They do tricks and controlled slides 
in very close proximity to each other,” 
marveled Mario Galasso, co-owner of 
the Freedom Road Harley-Davidson 
dealership in Branford. “When they’re 
doing their shows, it’s like an orches­
trated ballet.”
Canestri and Fusco declined to 
speak on the record about biking, cit­
ing concerns about an ongoing lawsuit 
brought against them by the city of New 
Haven. In 2022, Mayor Justin Elicker’s 
administration sued five defendants 
affiliated with Eastcoastin over a party 
and stunt show the business hosted in 
2021. The City claims that the event 
broke a Connecticut law requiring 
event organizers to cover the cost of 
police protection in any “place of pub­
lic amusement.” The lawsuit separately 
alleges that the defendants violated the 
Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices 
Act, which “prohibits unfair competi­
tion and unfair deceptive acts,” arguing 
that it is unfair for Eastcoastin to have 
profited from the event while the City 
incurred the costs of public protection. 
Underpinning the ongoing legal dis­
pute is a fundamental divergence of 
opinion between Eastcoastin and the 
City about whether biking should be 
tolerated in public spaces.
Elicker recently launched a joint 
regional task force with several munic­
ipalities neighboring New Haven. It’s 
part of a yearslong effort to combat ille­
gal riding in Connecticut of dirt bikes, 
which have two wheels and are intended 
for off-road driving, and all-terrain vehi­
cles, which have four wheels and are 
meant for off-highway use. In a press 
conference, the mayor said that New 
Haven has seized thirty-three dirt bikes 
and ATVs so far this year.
Elicker told me that there is a differ­
ence between street-legal bikers and dirt 
and ATV bikers. Street-legal bikers sim­
ply break minor traffic laws, while the 
dirt and ATV bikers “do street takeovers” 
and are “somewhat regularly” found with 
guns when they are arrested for biking. 
Although Eastcoastin uses street-legal 
bikes with brakes, headlights, and other 
safety equipment, 
Elicker said that 
he is concerned about similar “street 
takeover” issues when they gather bik­
ers who upset traffic patterns, riding 
through the city en masse.
“In that circumstance, it’s some­
what similar,” he said, referring to the 
2021 event at the center of the lawsuit. 
“Thousands of people came either as 
spectators or riders and completely 
took over the streets.”
Eight of the bikers I talked to said 
the same thing about dirt and ATV 
bikers. They’re kids. They’re hooli­
gans. It’s okay, though—let them live. 
There’s no tension between them and 
the Harley riders, even if there’s ten­
sion between them and the law.
The dirt and ATV bikers, accord­
ing to Voss, are often just 15 or 16 years 
old, and “cause chaos throughout the 
city, break windows on cars, and steal 
bikes. But there’s no tension because the 
groups just don’t associate.”
Killer agreed. In fact, she’s “been in 
the pack a few times,” she said, referring to 
the younger, more reckless crowd. This is a 
common theme among motorcyclists who 
have had long riding careers. It’s custom­
ary to fall in with the daredevils as a young 
rider before graduating to more sanc­
tioned riding styles and bikes. When the 
older bikers I spoke to stop at red lights, 
they are left with nostalgia for their more 
reckless days. Connection, not just danger, 
characterizes the rides of younger bikers. 
“Everyone’s together, everyone wants 
to join in,” Killer said, frying her vocal 
chords for emphasis on toGEther. “Why 
not? We all just want to be left alone 
and be free.”
Dave Molster-Pecoraro, a 51-year-
old biker from East Haven unaffili­
ated with a biker group, credits biking’s 
unifying power for reuniting him with 
his biological father. A few years ago, 
Molster-Pecoraro identified his father 
through Ancestry.com. They decided to 
meet and bonded over their shared love 
of bikes. A few hours after their conver­
sation, he checked his phone to learn he 
had won a Harley-Davidson in a raffle. 
He and his father now take a weekly ride 
together on Sundays. “It’s like we were 
never apart,” he said.
A cheerful Molster-Pecoraro cranks 
up “Hellraiser” by Ozzy Osbourne on 
the speaker of his Harley. He’s offered 
me a ride. I hold on to the skull tat­
too on his upper left shoulder for dear 
life, and without GPS or a watch, we 
set off through East Haven. He salutes 
each passing biker with the “biker wave,” 
extending his middle and pointer fin­
gers downward and curling the rest 
together. His sharp, staccato “ha-ha-ha” 
cuts the wind.
When we pull into a parking lot, 
he tells me it’s impossible to explain in 
words why biking bonds people together 
so well. It’s a feeling you only understand 
when you’re riding. Once you’re on that 
bike, suddenly, you’re sharing an experi­
ence with every other biker you pass.
Galasso, co-owner of the Branford 
Harley-Davidson dealership, told me 
that bikers welcome anyone who believes 
in the freedom philosophy of riding 
regardless of age, background, race, or 
gender. Killer contended that outside 
of the speckless Harley dealership, 
it’s more complicated. She and other 
women have had to work hard to carve 
out space for themselves in the biking 
world, which is male both in constitu­
tion and in temper.
When it comes to intergroup atti­
tudes, motorcyclists, dirt bikers, business 
owners, and joy riders set their different 
styles aside. They coexist, bonded by 
their common passion and mutual value 
of freedom from judgment. Tough child­
hoods are understood, even assumed. If 
you’re in, the acceptance is radical.
And to be in, you just have to under­
stand that the thrill comes when the 
rules go. The wind belongs to everyone. 
A guaranteed equalizer.
“That’s why I brought you for a ride,” 
he smiles. “I wanted you to experience it.”
My hair has ballooned into a fluffy, 
wind-blown tangle. I feel included.∎
Josie Reich is a sophomore in 
Davenport College.


**Snapshot: Front Women**
**Author: Sophia Liu**
**Page number(s): 12**

“W
e’ve got to control our 
own lives,” Jennifer Abod sings. 
Her voice, sharp and convincing, cre­
scendos. “Free our sisters! Abortion 
is a right!” 
Virginia Blaisdell delivers the 
final riff on her French horn. Judy 
Miller strikes the last note on her 
cymbal and smiles. Rika Alper cracks 
a joke and tunes her guitar. Kit 
McClure distributes papers with the 
lyrics to the next song. “Sing along!” 
Leah Margulies shouts. Their audi­
ence of women, standing shoulder to 
shoulder, roars. 
It’s midnight on Wednesday in 
the summer of 1970. At Yale’s Delta 
Kappa Epsilon fraternity house, stu­
dents experience something like never 
before—the debut of the New Haven 
Women’s Liberation Rock Band. 
Six months before this performance, 
the soon-to-be bandmates had met at 
the Free Women’s Conference, a two-day 
event consisting of feminist speeches 
and discussions in which over three 
hundred women participated. The event 
sought to recruit new activists for the 
New Haven women’s movement, a 
group that emerged in 1966 out of 
frustration with the male-dominated 
American Independence Movement. 
Both the Conference and the Band 
underpinned 
the 
second-wave 
feminism movement, a period of 
advocacy for women’s equality and 
visibility—primarily for the wealthy 
and white.
Among them was Kit McClure 
’75, a first-year in Yale College’s first 
co-educational class in 1969 and 
the sole female member of the Yale 
Precision Marching Band in 1970. 
But after a male student forcibly 
picked her up and carried her across 
a football field, she quit. She’d also 
left the Directed Studies program, 
frustrated by the male students who 
talked over her in class. 
In 1970, Rika Alper was invited 
to the Free Women’s Conference to 
speak about the feminist struggle 
rampant within the anti-war move­
ment. Having grown up playing 
folk guitar, Alper always fantasized 
about running away and joining a 
rock band. 
Virginia Blaisdell practicing 
drums in her home in New 
Haven.



**Title: The New Haven Women’s Liberation Rock Band**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When Leah Margulies spotted McClure at 
the Conference, she had already heard a rumor 
about a red-headed first-year at Yale with rock 
band experience. Marguiles moved to New 
Haven in 1968 and started practicing the flute 
along the way. She yearned to play in an 
all-female band. 

Virginia “Ginny” Blaisdell went to 
the Conference because “everyone was.” 
Her best friend, Naomi Weisstein, was 
a speaker at the Conference and would 
go on to start the Chicago Women’s 
Liberation Rock Band at the same time 
the New Haven chapter came together. 
The sister bands remained in close 
contact throughout their careers—
it didn’t hurt that New Haven’s 
Jennifer Abod and Chicago’s Susan 
Abod were sisters. 

Eight women in their early 
20s made up the New Haven 
Women’s 
Liberation 
Rock 
Band. The other core mem­
bers were Harriet Cohen, who 
played guitar, Florika Remetier 
and Pat Ouellette, who played 
bass, and Judy Miller, who played 
drums. Kate Field ’75 and Anna 
Tsing Lowenhaupt ’73—who, like 
McClure, were also in Yale’s first 
class of women—joined briefly. 

The women were united by their 
disgust with the blatant sexism of 
rock music. Weisstein and Blaisdell 
explained this feeling in their 1972 
article, “Feminist Rock: No More 
Balls and Chains” for Ms. magazine: 
“Rock has become more blatantly, 
menacingly sexist than anything that 
had preceded it.” 

In the late nineteen-sixties 
and early nineteen-seventies, rock 
music championed rugged mascu­
linity. Groups like The Rolling Stones 
and Led Zeppelin created what crit­
ics termed “cock rock”—aggressively 
asserting masculinity by standing with 
their legs wide open, mimicking sex 
with their guitars, and singing about 
empty-minded, sexually subservient 
girls. The Rolling Stones’ “Under My 
Thumb,” for example, compares a girl 
to “a squirming dog” and “Siamese cat” 
that “does just what she’s told…under 
my thumb.” In 1967, Jimi Hendrix pre­
tended to rape his guitar on stage. Cock 
rock’s sexual aggression extended beyond 
lyrics and performances and reflected the 
prevalent sexual violence women endured. 

In 1968, at the Sky River rock festival, 
three women were gang raped and one 
woman was stabbed while trying to escape. 

Even amid this hostile landscape, 
the New Haven Liberation Band’s first 
concert at Delta Kappa Epsilon was an 
uproarious success. The band distributed 
tambourines and lyric sheets, performed 
comedy and theater, and spoke candidly 
to their audience mid-performance. By 
refusing to distance themselves as rock 
stars, they engaged their audience as 
equals. The Band reinvented the rock 
concert experience from a spectator 
sport to a participatory celebration. In 
1976, Blaisdell wrote in Sister, New 
Haven’s first feminist magazine, that 
the band “had somehow momentar­
ily succeeded in creating an event 
that incorporated [their] vision of 
a better society because it changed 
the way performers and audiences 
behaved with each other.”

T
he Band challenged the sex­
ism of rock music by inserting 
their feminist, affirmative, and 
humanitarian visions. “We were 
first and most necessarily femi­
nists. Only second were we musi­
cians,” Blaisdell wrote in 1976. 

In their Ms. magazine article, 
Weisstein and Blaisdell defined 
their music as “musical organiz­
ing.” Through their lyrics, they 
deconstructed women’s oppres­
sion in order to empower them. 
The Band sang about the whole­
hearted female experience: “...our 
strengths and dignity and courage 
and humor and honor and love and 
uniqueness and wisdom, our joy as 
well as our pain.”

Songs emphasized everything 
from resistance to solidarity.  In 
“Sister Witch,” the Band sings, 
“When I feel my 
sister’s embrace, there’s all the 
space and the love that I need. Yes, we 
need each other.”

But to combat sexism, the Band 
wanted to do more than subvert lyr­
ics. They wanted, as Weisstein and 
Blaisdell wrote, to “demystify the 
priesthood of the instrument and 
the amplifier.” Because women play­
ing music, especially rock music, was 
unheard of at the time, the Band, by 
playing their instruments, moving and 
fixing their equipment, and recording 
by themselves, wished to strengthen 
female autonomy and self-confidence. 
“It’s hard to imagine how much of a 
man’s world it was at that time,” Alper 
said. “It was almost as if women were 
like cows or horses or some species that 
couldn’t possibly figure out how to play an 
electric guitar.” 

When the Band played at women’s 
conferences, they would often hold work­
shops afterward on how to play rock music 
with their own instruments. 

“Our mission was to open the rock 
music world to women and show them 
that they could be rock musicians too,” 
Margulies explained.

For the members who had never 
played rock music or been inside a 
recording 
studio 
before, 
McClure, 
Florika, and Blaisdell—who each previ­
ously had ten to twenty years of train­
ing—acted as their mentors, writing 
songs and teaching their less-experi­
enced members how to perform. 

hroughout the Band’s four-
year course, members’ personal 
lives were intrinsically linked with 
the intersectional causes they 
championed. Influenced by the 
Because women playing music, especially 
rock music, was unheard of at the time, the 
Band, by playing their instruments, moving 
and fixing their equipment, and recording 
by themselves, wished to strengthen female 
autonomy and self-confidence. 


--- Page 14 ---

gay liberation movement, some members saw 
same-sex relationships as the logical answer to 
their past romantic struggles with men and their 
feminist resistance. 

Everyone broke up with their former part­
ners and experimented with their sexualities. “I 
played with whoever I wanted to,” Blaisdell said. 
She divorced her husband. Marguiles ended her 
marriage to explore polygamous and lesbian 
relationships. Alper broke up with her boy­
friend. Abod came out as a lesbian. McClure 
frequented a gay bar near Yale. 

“We talked about how oppressed we were 
and how much men suck,” Alper described. “It 
was very disruptive and upsetting. There were 
a lot of hurt feelings and conflict. Nothing 
about our lives was placid.” 

Many of the women also joined femi­
nist consciousness-raising groups, tight-
knit clusters of women that would speak 
and share their intimate feelings and needs. 
While some of the members were 
close friends or had romantic relation­
ships with one another, other members 
of the Band merely toler­
ated one another or didn’t 
get along as well. Despite 
their enlivening and exhilarat­
ing performances on stage, the 
Band frequently fought off stage. 

“It was pandemonium,” Rika 
said. “We fought about every­
thing and nothing.” 

When Marguiles married in 
1968, her parents offered to either 
give her some money or pay for an 
elaborate wedding. Marguiles chose 
the money and bought a van for the 
Band. The Band agreed that all money 
earned from their gigs would be used 
communally on food, equipment, and 
transportation expenses. They charged 
each audience member only the amount 
they could afford to pay. “There was no 
financial interest,” Alper said. 

O
n December 13, 1970, the Band had 
the unforgettable thrill of performing 
at a prison in Niantic, 
Connecticut. Blaisdell wrote, 
“The [prison] was buzzing 
with an incipient politi­
cal consciousness.” Two 
to three hundred incar­
cerated 
people, 
mostly 
young Black women, sat 
in the gym, bobbing up 
and down and yelling in 
their seats. They were 
not allowed to dance, 
but they did so none­
theless. Every time a 
guard 
motioned 
for 
one dancer to sit down, 
another dancer would 
pop up on the other 
side of the room. 

One 
of 
these 
women was Ericka 
Huggins, a leading 
member of the Black 
Panther Party, who 
The Band playing at a reunion.
Photograph courtesy of Virginia Blaisdell


--- Page 15 ---

wrote a poem inspired by the 
performance. 

She 
describes 
the solidarity she felt blossom 
across racial lines: “it was all 
a total exchange / of energy…
they sang / and our voices 
answered their guitars…a feel­
ing there that one day—soon— 
/ all people will be free…we left 
/ stronger / able to smile.” 

Moved 
by 
the 
crowd’s 
energy in defiance of the guards, 
the Band extended their perfor­
mance until the prison matron 
made them stop. 

But at Cornell University, 
where the New Haven Band 
played alongside the Chicago 
Band, the women’s presence 
provoked outrage. Most of the 
all-female audience took their 
shirts 
off 
mid-performance. 
Male students at Cornell—
overhearing this and feeling 
enraged by what they felt was 
exclusion—stormed the concert 
venue, calling the Band mem­
bers “cunts” and hurling things at 
them. Police were called to evac­
uate the Band and the attendees. 

Despite this incident, the Band 
still received overwhelmingly 
positive responses from their 
female audiences. 

“People were thrilled with 
us,” Alper said. “It was so novel to 
hear music with these types of 
lyrics and to see women 
jumping up and 
down 
with 
an electric instrument.” The Band devel­
oped a loyal, young, and female New 
Haven fan base that would follow them 
to every concert, which stunned the 
members. “It seems magical that people 
knew we were playing in another city,” 
Alper said. 

In the fall of 1971, Marian Levy 
approached McClure at a concert and 
asked if the Band was interested in mak­
ing a record. Levy was the co-founder of 
Rounder Records, a self-described “politi­
cal collective as well as a record company.” 
The Band agreed but felt completely 
unprepared. “The idea was preposterous 
and terrifying,” Blaisdell wrote. “We were 
so perplexed by the enormity of the idea 
and also anxious to talk about the polit­
ical implications of what we had been 
doing for a year.” 

The New Haven chapter of the Band 
was then invited to a recording studio in 
Southboro, Massachusetts for a week­
end to record the album alongside their 
Chicagoan counterpart. Levy left the two 
bands to themselves, saying, “It was also 
part of the political point being made, 
which is that women can not only make 
their own music, they can have creative 
control over their own music. And so, 
they did.” 

In 1972, the New Haven and Chicago 
Women’s Liberation Rock Bands released 
their sole album, Mountain Moving Day, 
which sold a few thousand copies across 
college towns and feminist bookstores. 

I
n 1973, the Band was invited by The 
Furies Collective, a group of lesbian sep­
aratists that viewed lesbianism as a politi­
cal decision, to Washington D.C. to play 
for what they assumed was a public dance. 
But it was the Furies’ private party, the 
Band realized.

Outraged, Blaisdell saw the incident 
as a sign that the movement “began to 
therapize itself” and that women would 
choose their personal pursuits over col­
lective activism. She wrote, “We con­
sidered ourselves the ‘cultural arm’ of 
feminism, but it wasn’t clear that fem­
inism wanted such an arm or knew 
what to do with it.” 

By 1974, as the feminist 
movement 
waned, 
members 
of the New Haven Women’s 
Liberation Rock Band no 
longer felt they were ful­
filling their purpose. “Our 
era was coming to an 
end,” Rika said. “Roe v. 
Wade was passed. The 
anti-war movement was coming 
to a close.” 

The Band was splintering. 
During her time with the Band, 
Marguiles became a member of 
Sullivanian Therapy, a cult that 
practiced radical psychoanalysis, 
communal living, and polygamy, 
and refused to compromise with 
other members who didn’t support 
her beliefs. Unbeknownst to the 
other members, McClure struggled 
with alcohol and substance abuse. 
Eventually, encouraged by a psychol­
ogy student at Yale, McClure sought 
therapy in New York and could no 
longer play in the New Haven Band. 

In 1974, four years after its founding, 
the original New Haven Women’s 
Liberation Rock Band disbanded. 

Abod 
said, “We 
had a right to 
do this, and it might 
not have come out 
as well as we wanted. 
The people after us will 
do it better, but we had 
to do it for the first time.” 

Photo courtesy of Leah Margulies
The Band in 1972 from left to right: Harriet Cohen, 
Kit MvcClure, Rika Alper, Jennifer Abod, Leah 
Margulies (sitting down with glasses on head), Pat 
Ouellette, sitting down, Virginia Blaisdell and 
behind her, Judy Miller.



**Title: The Band**
**Author: Sophia Liu**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
company, and to teach as a professor in 
universities across the Northeast. Alper, 
though still passionate about music, realized that she is more skilled as a developmental psychologist. Marguiles went 
to law school and practices law to this 
day, her activist spirit strong as ever. 
McClure kept at her musical dreams. 
She became the first woman to graduate 
with a master’s degree in saxophone performance from the Manhattan School 
of Music. After juggling jobs as a music 
teacher at five different New York City 
schools, she founded the Kit McClure 
Band, an all-female jazz band that went 
on to play sold-out venues throughout 
the Northeast United States, Europe, and 
Japan. She is 72 and resides in Manhattan 
with her husband of eighteen years. 


Only Blaisdell and Abod hoped to 
continue playing, so they put out advertisements in Ms. and Sister to find new 
members for a more musical and less 
political band. “The new band sounded 
immensely better than the old one,” 
Blaisdell wrote. “But there were problems.” By 1976, because the women’s 
movement was holding fewer conferences and events, the Band struggled to 
find gigs and eventually dissolved. 


While the heart of the Band lingers 
with the members, they’ve since found 
their own paths. Abod went on to anchor 
The Jennifer Abod Show, the first nightly 
AM radio program with a female host, 
to found a feminist-centered production 
Blaisdell remained in New Haven, 
working at the New Haven Independent 
and serving on the editorial board for 
Sister. To her, the shortness of the Band’s 
tenure meant that they were unable to 
accomplish their mission of radicalizing rock music. The end of the women’s 
movement marked an end to the Band. 
“We blew it,” Blaisdell wrote. “Without a 
movement, an assault against the cultural 
forms of our society will fail.” 


But hope glowed through Blaisdell’s 
disappointment—even as they disbanded, 
© 1974 Naomi Weisstein & Virginia Blaisdell
something greater had been set in motion. 
Abod said, “We had a right to do this, and 
it might not have come out as well as we 
wanted. The people after us will do it better, but we had to do it for the first time.” 


While the band has not performed 
publicly in almost fifty years, its legacy 
carries on within Connecticut’s music 
scene and within Yale. East Rock House 
celebrates and spotlights queer and 
trans musicians by hosting events like 
the Trans 4 Trans music festival. Space 
Ballroom fosters an inclusive space dedicated to musical freedom and personal 
expression. Tarek, the lead singer of the 
hardcore punk band Intercourse, said 
that Connecticut treasures a prominent 
experimental punk scene that counters 
traditional exclusive and masculine rock. 


Today, Blaisdell is 83 and lives 
with her partner, historian and professor Amy Kesselman. Her home—and 
its bookshelves stocked from floor to 
ceiling, a room dedicated to her drum 
set and dozens of her used cameras, 
and a refrigerator covered in political 
magnets––still bursts with her youthful dynamism. 


“There wouldn’t be women [at Yale] 
today if people hadn’t pushed the crap 
out of it,” Blaisdell said. Her Band’s radical humanitarian and utopic vision still 
lingers in New Haven today. ∎ 
Sophia Liu is a first-year in Grace 
Hopper College.



**Title: You Sat Low with Me**
**Author: Netanel Schwartz**
**Page number(s): 17**

You sat low with me then
against the foot of the bed
in the week after my father died.
I put my head in your lap
and I wanted you,
and I went cold with shame
for my wanting you.
I said, nobody knows who my father was.
I did not mean it.
Even you knew who my father was.
It was a bad room I led you to:
I knew that I repulsed you.
Also that you would never say so.
I asked you then:
is there shame in it?
I could not afford shame
— Netanel Schwartz
Illustration by Angela Huo
Poetry



**Title: Mass Education**
**Author: Aanika Eragam**
**Page number(s): 18**

Rolling hills. A long pasture of highway. 
Cars grazing in the distance. 
The view from the classroom at Danbury 
Correctional Facility could be idyllic enough for 
portraiture—if one leaves out the chain link fence. 
Jonathan Herrera Soto YSA ’23, a Teaching 
Fellow in the Yale School of Art’s Art and Social 
Justice Initiative, spent the slippery months of 
mid-summer driving up a jagged path to a small 
parking lot in western Connecticut.
Lugging art supplies from his trunk, Herrera 
Soto would enter the prison for a security screening reminiscent of the TSA’s. At times, guards 
turned materials away, forcing him to return 
crates of styrofoam back to his car and improvise 
lesson plans without them. 
 “I know I'm not supposed to bring in, like, 
hazardous contraband, but I don't really know 
what contraband is,” he told me. “I'm also not 
imaginative enough to see how some of these 
things could be used as weapons.”
By Aanika Eragam
layout design By Chris de Santis | Photographs Courtesy of Karen Pearson and Zelda Roland



**Mass Education**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In his application for the fellowship, Herrera Soto wrote about his older brother who was incarcerated. During visits, a glass window stood between them. The separation was part of what brought him to the craft of drawing. The “technique of seeing and looking” became a way to better understand his memories. Yet, a summer teaching in prison challenged him to ask: in the art of rendition, is the truth only what appears?
“Part of [one] assignment was to draw outside,” he tells me, describing students’ apprehension about including the fence. “As your instructor, I want to say that it's your choice, if you're going to use the chain link fence as evidence of what you actually see. But also…omission is a creative decision to maybe get at a deeper truth or more of the truth. And I had the students [say] to me, ‘Alright, from here on out, no more fences.’”


In the summer he taught at Danbury, Hererra Soto joined a host of Yale and University of New Haven faculty who teach in the Yale Prison Education Initiative—a Dwight Hall program founded in 2016 by Yale alumna Zelda Roland ’08, GSAS ’16. Each semester, the YPEI hosts approximately thirteen classes at MacDougall Walker Correctional Institution and Danbury Federal Correctional Institution, with between seven to fifteen students in each course. The YPEI is a member of the Bard Prison Initiative's nationwide Consortium for the Liberal Arts in Prison, which runs programs from fifteen universities across ten states. 

The partnership between universities and prisons can occupy a tenuous space, particularly given the difficulties plaguing both institutions. Citing students, with soaring fees, post-graduate employment in limbo, and faculty bogged down by bureaucratic bloat, media and academics have claimed that the University is in crisis. The Prison, too, has been decried for its inhumane conditions, and the disproportionate representation of low-income BIPOC in its surging populations. For two institutions that have accumulated a barrage of negative media coverage over the past few decades, prison education programs present a unique opportunity to change the narrative.

From a PR perspective, it’s not difficult to see the benefits of hosting a program like the YPEI for an institution like Yale. Last year’s graduation alone turned up more than sixty hits from a quick Google search, with nationwide media outlets such as AP News, PBS, and NBC picking up the story. The Yale name finds itself front and center in this coverage, with headlines including “The Jail to Yale Journey” and “Seven Prisoners Earn College Degrees from Top World University.”
“As you can probably tell,” Roland tells me, “the University is celebrating this program in a big way. It's taking a lot of credit for what we're doing. And what we're hoping for is that it will lead to better investment and buy-in.”

When Roland initially pitched the program to the Connecticut Department of Corrections, the Commissioner stopped her mid-spiel: he’d been waiting for someone at Yale to propose this idea for years.
“For me, the prison system in Connecticut always wanted us inside it,” Roland explains. “Yale was the holdup.”

Ultimately, while the YPEI bears the Yale name, degrees are awarded by the University of New Haven—a decision informed in part by logistics (Yale doesn’t offer Associate Degrees), and in part by exclusivity.
“There's always a tacit awareness that the selective nature of elite universities in the United States necessarily means that only a few can have something that's valuable,” says Peter Crumlish, Director of Dwight Hall. Extending that education to more people—particularly incarcerated people—breaks down Yale’s value system. “And you hear people saying, well, what about people who aren't incarcerated who are deserving? Shouldn’t we start with them?”

This question of merit—who deserves an education, particularly a Yale education—clouds the rollout of the program. For faculty and students within the YPEI, higher education is a means of reclaiming inmates’ humanity in prisons and paving a better life post-release. Yet, resources and funding constraints mean that only a select few can access this legitimizing force. In a setting where release isn’t guaranteed, performance post-prison still seems to be the prevailing metric that matters. This begs the question: in between the Prison and the University, is personhood something you have to prove? 


For students at MacDougall-Walker Correctional Institution, the journey to class is a taxing one. 

Much of students’ days—twenty hours if the prison is in lockdown—is spent in cells. When it’s time for class, they embark down a long gray “hallway of hopelessness,” according to Marcus Harvin, an alumnus of the YPEI (’23) and a current College-to-Career Fellow. He described how the trek is a double-edged sword—“a sign of hope for the inmate population but a sign of ridicule for the Corrections Officers.”

Indeed, despite supportive prisons from the YPEI’s administrative perspective, all five incarcerated students I spoke with described a degree of hostility from guards across prisons. Though some COs displayed interest in students’ coursework, many firmly espoused the belief that incarcerated people did not deserve an education, much less one from an institution like Yale. 

“Some will even be bold enough to say to each other when a group of students are coming by, ‘Oh, we got to pay X amount of dollars [for college], all they got to do is come to prison,’" says Harvin. “You got to get through a lot of hostility, to get to, let’s say for vernacular’s sake, History.”

History is held in a seminar room at the end of the hall. With a round table, chairs, and a window, it could resemble any classroom at Yale. But instead of lush courtyards and blue skies, students gaze out at the prison block, where other inmates walk to and from class. Harvin describes it as an “educational warehouse.”

Part of the violence of a prison is its mundanity, says Hector Rodriguez, an alumnus of the Bard Prison Initiative and a current College-to-Career Fellow at the YPEI.
“I will look into the yard and people go in circles like zombies,” he told me. “That's your routine for every day of the sentence. You're doing the same thing.”

For Herrera Soto, proposing assignments for Basic Drawing meant finding ways to fight this mundanity. He suggested that students use abstraction—rendering an image with scribbles. “It's great because it’s not really your bunk or the concrete hallway…but [still what] we're trying to learn, which is value,” he said.

The classroom itself, for many students, is a departure from the oppressive routine of the prison.
“You’re planning something and you're performing or you're writing and that brings you to another world,” says Elizabeth Hinton, a History professor at Yale and in the YPEI. “It's important to provide people—[where] the purpose of prison is to remind them where they are in the world—to be able to transcend that.”

James Jeter, an alumnus of the Wesleyan Center for Prison Education and the Founder of the Dwight Hall Civic Allyship Initiative, labels professors as “idealists,” facilitating a space where “for the first time…[students] get to actually have an experience outside of being an inmate.”
“It's like the best part of the day that anybody in such a situation could have,” says Harvin. “Because you don't only get educated. You get community, communication, camaraderie. And that's something that prison lacks because it's such an independent process…It's like a facade or dream, right? …But like, we can't really survive by ourselves.”

Cultivating this community of optimism is not without its challenges. For Paul North, Co-Faculty Director of the YPEI, teaching a class called Non-Cynical Socialists required an exercise in imagination. 
“We looked for a way to think about society that wasn't cynical,” North said. “What does it mean to look for utopian moments? And students are resistant at first.”

For their final projects, students were tasked with analyzing an intentional community in history. One decided to focus on Black Wall Street, a prosperous area in Tulsa, Oklahoma heralded by Black agriculturists in the early twentieth century. It was eventually the site of a devastating massacre. For their final projects, students resurrected the community, acting out a day on Black Wall Street. 

Hinton describes how in her African American Literature class, many students were able to name—for the first time—the structural forces of race, class, and gender that played a role in their imprisonment. 
“This is essentially the essence of the value of a liberal arts education,” says North, “liberating your mind.”

And yet, liberation in a prison setting is always limited. Eventually, class ends, and students, armed with the academic tools to interrogate their oppression, must still embark back down the “hallway of hopelessness.”
“Of course, it's cool to be on Instagram for the Governor. It's cool to be on Yale’s Instagram…But it sucks to have to go back to a cell after you learn all of this stuff,” says Harvin. “After you've just been told by one of the most brilliant people in your field that you are brilliant yourself. But you’re still behind bars.”

In a prison setting, where students tolerate harassment to go to class, Jeter says inmates must be wary of conflating studenthood with personhood. 
“You can't get roped into believing that something is worth more than your freedom,” says Jeter. “That this version of your humanity is worth more than your overall humanity. Nothing is worth more than your personhood.”


For many, college in prison isn’t just about education; it’s about the future it offers post-release.
“A lot of times, we're not really looking at recidivism as a metric of success in higher education. That's not important to us,” says Roland. “But to sell the program to the facilities, they want to know that higher education is impactful for recidivism, or that it's having these different metrics, which it does.”

At the Danbury location, Site Director Tracy Westmoreland mentions a new Ward who really “sees the value” in the program: “If the students are 



**Title: Mass Education**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
22
TheNewJournal
Mass Education
gonna go back to the community, they need 
education, they need to be able to get a job. 
Otherwise, it's just a vicious cycle.”
The philosophy that helps pitch prison edu­
cation programs, then, stands on two fronts. One, 
that attending college in prison will behaviorally 
reform inmates, decreasing recidivism rates and 
increasing public safety. Two, that education pro­
grams will make inmates more productive in the 
workforce, becoming high-functioning and con­
tributing members of society. 

While these are the principles that help get 
prison education programs through the door, 
they often come with fraught implications.
Hinton argues in her lecture “Second 
Chances: Redemption and Reentry after Prison” 
that reliance on recidivism as a metric further 
reinforces the idea that education is a privilege. 
“It is necessary to redefine education from social 
utility,” Hinton says, “from its purpose being to 
train people to develop useful skills that will 
allow them to succeed in a global capitalist mar­
ket, to individual utility.”
This, Hinton tells me, looks like a world 
where education is afforded to incarcerated stu­
dents simply so they can “understand the world 
better, expand their horizons”—without any 
expectation of capital return. 

Yet, for some students, education is a 
means to an end. Reentry often means low-
wage, labor-intensive jobs at warehouses or 
construction sites. Having a degree opens up 
an entirely different trajectory—the ability to 
make a living. 

Rodriguez describes how in the Bard Prison 
Initiative, some inmates would apply year after 
year: “Every time they keep trying…because they 
see people go home and have good jobs.”
“Wesleyan’s motto was ‘Education for the 
sake of education.’ No one in that program 
was looking to be educated for the sake of edu­
cation,” says Jeter. “It's impossible to be real, 
because learning has been so commodified in 
America…Men and women want to get out. 
They want to get better. They want redemption. 
They want to prove something. So this isn't for 
the sake of education.”
Ultimately, inmates have lives they lead out­
side of prison, and many have hopes of one day 
making their way back to the places and people 
they love. In one of Herrera Soto’s assignments, 
where students were tasked with drawing por­
traits, many turned to the only references they 
had—photos of their children. 

“That was particularly hard because I wasn't 
expecting the effect,” Herrera Soto says. “There's 
nothing that prepared me for going to check 
on people's homework and then they're sharing 
their stories of their kids.”
For one student, prison education was a way of 
reconnecting with her daughter who was finishing 
high school. “She's participating in the YPEI to 
Left and right: Recent YPEI graduates 
in MacDougall-Walker Correctional 
Institution.



--- Page 23 ---

23
November 2023
show her daughter,” Herrera Soto told me, “…if 
your mom can do it, then it's never too late.”
The Prison-To-College Pipeline
“[Yale] owns New Haven,” says Harvin. “Yeah. 
That's how I felt. That they own it. And maybe 
that they owed something to it?” 
Historically, Yale has a long record of per­
petuating racial and economic inequality in 
New Haven, purchasing large swaths of land, 
over-policing, and limiting local hires—all 
while evading property taxes. The majority of 
students at MacDougall-Walker Correctional 
Institution are from New Haven, Hartford, and 
Bridgeport, directly residing in spaces where Yale 
is implicated.
“Therefore,” says Hinton, “it should be part 
of Yale’s responsibility to share its resources 
with students.” 

Currently, Yale’s investment in the YPEI 
primarily comes through administrative sup­
port, such as faculty and indirect contributions. 
Roland stresses the importance of these resources, 
yet the University’s direct financial commitment 
to the program is “such a low number” that she 
doesn’t share it. “We raise nearly the entire bud­
get for this program through private grants and 
individual donations,” she says. “And it's all funds 
that are raised not through Yale, but through 
Dwight Hall."
Real buy-in from Yale, Hinton says, would 
require an expansion of resources and a shift in 
its educational mission. 

In the past, courses in prison counted as 
overload for faculty—classes they taught on the 
YPEI’s payroll—in addition to a full schedule at 
Yale. A recent administrative win means that now, 
professors can count one credit taught in prison 
as part of their normal workload, covered on the 
University’s dime. In Hinton’s view, this policy 
should apply to all course credits. 

What does this mean for the University’s 
educational goals on campus? 
Rather than a “side project,” Hinton says Yale 
should include educating incarcerated students 
in its primary mission, thus addressing inequali­
ties that are “studied so deeply [at the University] 
but that Yale as an institution has helped to cre­
ate.” This could look like a degree awarded by 
Yale itself—something that the YPEI admin­
istrators I spoke with characterized both as an 
improbable pipe dream and an ultimate goal. 
Hinton calls this the “Prison-to-College 
Pipeline,” a radical reimagining of prisons as a 
space for “mass education,” and a world where 
the transition to college post-release is seamless, 
with institutions like Yale taking the lead in facil­
itating degrees for students upon reentry. 

This is work that the YPEI has already begun 
to undertake. The College-to-Career Fellowship 


--- Page 24 ---

24
offers one to two years of funded “professional 
development, career exploration, and mentorship 
opportunities” for formerly incarcerated alumni 
of any prison education program. Students pur­
sue their academic interests, drawing from the 
wealth of resources that Yale offers—professors, 
libraries, mentorship. Roland calls it a “Fulbright 
for formerly incarcerated students.”
Marisol Garcia, a College-to-Career Fellow 
and a graduate of Wesleyan’s Center for Prison 
Education (CPE), is using the Fellowship to 
supplement her exploration of teaching and 
policy, while also pursuing her law degree at the 
University of Vermont. 

“Even let's say people who are not formerly 
incarcerated,” Garcia said. “[To] have an oppor­
tunity for a two-year fellowship at a university as 
large as Yale, with their resources, and their net­
works, and the different opportunities?” 

Initially, Garcia’s many commitments dis­
suaded her from taking on a full-time fellowship, 
but a mentor told her, “You would give up an 
opportunity that would take you multiple life­
times to be able to even explore Yale.”
A Select Few
Hearing about the application process for the 
YPEI, I was surprised by its extensive rigor, some 
components even exceeding what was required 
for my own application to Yale. 

After an initial information session, the 
YPEI invites interested students to submit a 
written component, consisting of three to four 
short answer questions and a longer essay. Next, 
students complete a timed essay in response to 
a prompt—often quotes from literary icons. A 
committee of faculty and formerly incarcerated 
staff read their applications, looking primarily 
for the “desire to engage with questions.” Some 
are then invited to participate in a mock Socratic 
seminar. Finally, a select group of students are 
interviewed. In 2018, out of nearly six hundred 
applicants to the first YPEI class, twelve were 
granted a spot, amounting to an acceptance rate 
of 2 percent.
It follows then, that for participants in the 
YPEI, being a student is a matter of prestige, rep­
licating Yale’s real-world hierarchy and the hos­
tility its exclusivity creates.
“People in the community college programs 
will often subordinate themselves to someone in 
the Yale program. ‘I'm not as smart as you Yale 
dudes,’” Harvin says. “So what it does is, it kind 
of gives the people in that program, rightfully so, 
some level of esteem amongst their peers. It takes 
a lot to get into the program, even more to stay in 
the program, and not just to stay, but to excel in 
the program.”
Yet, in a setting where those I spoke with 
described professors as the only ones who treat 
A YPEI classroom.



**Title: Mass Education**
**Author: Aanika Eragam**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
25
November 2023
them like humans, what does it mean that this 
program is only accessible to a select few, and 
that “it takes a lot” to excel within it?
“Everyone should understand that education 
is always valuable,” says Francis Ernest, an alum­
nus of the YPEI (‘18). “Most of us wouldn't be 
here if we had education. Right, you will make 
better choices…An educated person doesn't 
commit crime because you understand the reality, 
right?”
Indeed, while prison education is often 
touted as a “second chance,” Hinton argues in 
her lecture that “most incarcerated people never 
had a first chance” at school. With over-po­
licing in historically under-resourced districts, 
many Black and brown youth are funneled into 
places like MacDougall by the school-to-prison 
pipeline. Prison education, then, is the righting 
of a wrong that begins before inmates are even 
incarcerated. 
And it must be treated as such. “Until there's 
legislation that says a person has a right to edu­
cation,” says Ernest, “there's always going to be a 
small amount.”
In a prison setting, this exclusivity runs the 
risk of maintaining the carceral system.
“Prisons do just enough to basically say we’re 
doing something,” says Ernest, “but they don’t 
want to turn prisons into colleges…It’s in your 
best interest not to educate everyone because if 
no one comes back, why would you exist?” 
The YPEI must be funded, developed, and 
nurtured. On this, faculty and students are in 
overwhelming agreement. If Hinton’s vision 
comes to pass, prisons will one day be colleges, 
democratizing education and the humanization 
that can come with it.
At 
MacDougall 
Walker 
Correctional 
Institution, Harvin was referred to by a number: 
403853. 
Today, as I sit in the crowd at Pitts Chapel 
United Free Will Baptist Church, he is intro­
duced by a Bishop who marvels at how three 
days after being released from prison, Harvin 
found himself “on top of a hill at Yale University.” 
Among the sea of friends and family who have 
come to see his first sermon, Harvin shouts out 
one row in particular—his professors at the 
University of New Haven, where he is now com­
pleting his degree. 
“I got some good news,” he says. “Number 
403853 has passed on.”
The crowd cheers; the organ blares; “It’s your 
time!” someone shouts. Harvin ends the sermon 
with a beginning: “Allow me,” he says, “to rein­
troduce myself.”


**Title: Endings**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

After his summer teaching for the YPEI, 
Herrera Soto returned to his studio in Erector 
Square, uncertain about what came next for the 
lives he briefly encountered. 
“Something about leaving always felt hard…
Saying bye and then going through a bunch of 
gates and then you drive away,” Herrera Soto says. 
“Yeah. It was kind of gnarly.”
Still, part of him was relieved.
“There's so many contradictions, so many 
things that get in the way sometimes,” he slows, 
cars from the street below droning through the 
silence. “It’s hard to hold the feelings of caring 
for your students. And then that feeling, some­
times in my body, like you shouldn't be in here. 
And I don't know. I don't know if I've resolved 
that for myself.”
Sitting on a crate, Herrera Soto’s silver ear­
ring catches the abundant light of the studio. It’s 
a stark contrast to the darkness of the prison he 
drove to three times a week, in the wet heat of 
mid-July. 
“At Danbury when I taught, all the good and 
bad was also housed within this feeling of dread 
of the prison,” he says. “Every minute you're 
there, there's this feeling. Like you can't leave. 
Like once you're in there…You're in a prison. 
You can't just run out the door.” 
Before I go, Herrera Soto shows me his stu­
dents’ drawings. Just one more, he insists, pausing 
to marvel at each one. It’s a beautiful piece, he 
affirms. Over and over again: “Like objectively, 
just looking at, it’s a beautiful drawing.”
For her final project, one student—Felicia—
drew a self-portrait. Her inked signature is shad­
owed by charcoal. She is the focal point of the 
piece, elevated in a vortex, hair parted by the 
wind. The floating faces of her classmates flock 
out from around her. A sea of eyes, they stare 
at her as we stare at them. We, the viewers, are 
aliens. And we’re abducting her. 
“The fact that she's bigger or the other peo­
ple are smaller. It doesn’t necessarily make sense. 
[But] she's the most important part,” Herrera 
Soto says. “When you're imagining from a dif­
ferent perspective, you’re imagining more of the 
whole…Which is hard for a student.”
He ponders whether the alien is a metaphor 
for wanting to escape. I think about wholeness. 
“Yeah,” he tells me. “It was hard to leave.”∎



**Title: Kinks in the Movement**
**Author: Viola Clune**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

“H
ow’s mom?” one stylist asks as she 
settles her client into the chair, 
draping a black smock over her. The styl­
ist invokes a collective mother, not your 
mom or my mom, but a mom where the 
our is silent. 
The air is misty with the blow dryers’ 
smoky clouds. It smells like fruits and oils, 
like suds and sheen. 
I am visiting The Curly Hair Salon 
for my friend Monique’s biannual “curly 
cut.” As Susie Baez washes Monique’s 
hair, I sit in the empty seat beside them. 
Susie says that the salon’s location in Fair 
Haven, within the smells and rhythms 
of New Haven’s little Puerto Rico, feels 
like home. 

In the way that stories so often told 
become a memory, I somehow remem­
ber sitting propped in a portable car 
seat opposite my mom in her salon 
chair. It’s a story only a mother could 
tell: me, well-behaved, observant for 
about an hour until I wanted out, with 
all the women in the salon fighting over 
who could hold me. This was when we 
lived in Baltimore. The salon was around 
the corner from us, on University Place, 
when my mom still relaxed her hair, 
before that became a sort of sin. 
In The Curly Hair Salon, you will 
find nary a flat iron or curling iron—
G-d forbid any relaxers or texturizers, 
chemical treatments meant to smooth 
or straighten textured hair. Instead, the 
salon offers curly cuts, curly training, 
and curly styling, as well as color and 
various hair-health treatments like deep 
conditioners and protein treatments. 
The salon, open since 2011, sustains 
itself with a steady stream of regulars 
and first-timers. It is a new type of 
salon, part of a movement that elevates 
natural hair as a means to self-love and 
empowerment. 
Susie says her job is “healing.” Curly 
girls have trauma, she laments, whether 
with their hair or from the salon. Every 
year, from about the ages of 5 to 8, I 
asked to get my hair done for my birth­
day. No matter how many products my 
mom brought for the Hair Cuttery hair­
dresser to use, my haircut looked like 
a one-dimensional poof. But the fol­
lowing year, I’d ask to go back—even if 
the hairstylist pulled my hair while she 
detangled it and I was too shy to talk 
with her like my mom talked with her 
hairstylist Linda. I was happy to sit in 
the salon, to walk from the bowl to the 
chair with a smock around my neck, the 
droplets from my hair pattering against 
it—to feel, in that moment, a little more 
like my mom, like a woman. 
Hair trauma can take many forms. 
For some children, it might look like 
bullying or familial othering. For others, 
it might stem from a mom or dad that 
doesn’t know what to do with their hair, 
leading them to get relaxers at an early 
age, inflicting permanent damage. And 
when your hair won’t fit under a swim 
cap or can’t be done in the style you 
wanted for prom, you receive the mes­
sage early on that your hair is abnormal, 
unwanted, difficult. You start to think 
the only path to beauty is to manipu­
late the hair that naturally grows out of 
your head. 
So for Susie, one of the most 
rewarding aspects of her job is when a 
client tells her, “Susie, that trick you 
gave me saved my life.” 
In my seat next to Susie, light spurts 
of water leap out of the bowl, splashing 
me. With my hair in braids and not flat 
ironed (straight), I’m not worried about 
it getting wet. Today I let myself enjoy 
the odd sprinkler, as Susie tells me about 
her own hair trauma. Growing up in 
predominantly white neighborhoods 
and schools, she mostly straightened and 
relaxed her hair. In cosmetology school, 
she finally stopped. With the expertise 
of a hairdresser in training, Susie felt 
more confident than ever before in her 
ability to finally “figure out” her hair. 
Still, cosmetology school offered 
Suzie practically no training for curly 
hair. She turned to natural hair influenc­
ers on Instagram and YouTube, whose 
videos she watched almost religious­
ly—“like everyone else.” Important to 
Susie’s increased confidence was a place 
to learn from people like her, people 
with natural hair too.
Luvena, the salon’s owner, disclosed 
that the biggest secret to her hiring 
method is prayer, asking G-d to send 
her who she needs. 
“I can teach you how to do hair,” 
Luvena explains, “but I can’t teach you 
to be kind, to care about people.”
The Curly Hair Salon is one of the 
three salons I visited in the Greater 
New Haven area. For generations, New 
Haven has sustained the tradition of 
the Black salon as a way of maintain­
ing and uplifting the community amid 
urban trends like disinvestment, police 
violence, crime, and poverty. Hair salons 
are forced to reckon with the world—
its prejudices, changes, and joys—both 
within the confines of the salon floor 
and in the neighborhood beyond it. 

B
lack hair styling has a long his­
tory, often tied up in expression, 
rebellion, and belonging. 
The divide between natural and 
manipulated hair in the U.S. has its roots 
in chattel slavery, scholar Chanté Griffin 
writes, with enslaved women working 
in the fields covering their natural hair. 
Those working in plantation homes, 
though, sometimes styled their hair to 
mimic their enslavers, wearing wigs or 
manipulating their natural hair. In the 
era following emancipation, hair styl­
ing became a way to promote the Black 
respectability that leaders like DuBois 
and Washington espoused. Madam 
C.J. Walker, the first female African 
American millionaire, popularized a 
straightening comb and invented hair 
care products meant to “tame” Black hair. 
The Civil Rights Movement and 
Black radical politics of the twentieth 
century brought with them a new push 
for natural hair. Popular leaders along­
side celebrities—from Angela Davis 
to Michael Jackson—sported afros. As 
Marcus Garvey said, “Do not remove 
the kinks from your hair, remove them 
from your brain.” Natural hair in the 
nineteen-sixties and nineteen-seventies 
was a political statement, or as Griffin 
writes, a “sign of Black power and rebel­
lion against white American beauty 
standards.”
In the nineteen-eighties and nine­
teen-nineties, assimilation came back 
to the forefront. Hair care ads mar­
keted permed and pressed hair to Black 
women yet again. Still, images of popu­
lar celebrities like Janet Jackson wearing 
braids or cornrows proliferated.
In the late two-thousands and early 
two-thousand-tens, the national imagi­
nation seemed to be captivated to some 
extent with Black hair, particularly in its 
natural form. Popular films like Chris 
Rock’s Good Hair and Regina Kimbell’s 
My Nappy Roots: A Journey Through 
Black Hair-itage appeared on screens at 
the same time bloggers like Naptural85, 
Blackonyx77, and Patrice Yursik sur­
faced on people’s social media feeds. 
Videos like “My Natural Hair Routine,” 
“How to Get the Perfect Twistout,” and 
“The Best Deep Conditioners, Ranked” 
showed Black women talking about, 
styling, and experimenting with their 
natural hair. Soon, what had been a rel­
atively invisible phenomenon became a 
sensation. YouTube, in a way, became a 
new type of salon, and YouTubers, a new 
type of hairstylist. 
Beyond mere social media engage­
ment, the natural hair movement rap­
idly turned into a booming industry. 
Before, hair care aisles at major stores 
were dominated by mainstream brands 
like Pantene or Garnier. One of the only 
Black hair brands available was Dark 
& Lovely, famous for at-home perm 
kits. Brands like SheaMoisture, Carol’s 
Daughter, and Miss Jessie’s have since 
entered the market in quick succession. 
Now, natural hair products are at the 
helm of a burgeoning hair and beauty 
industry catered to women of color. 
Whereas chemical relaxers accounted 
for 60 percent of the textured hair cat­
egory in 2009, as of 2020, 60 percent of 
this market, which has topped one bil­
lion dollars in revenue, belongs to prod­
ucts marketed towards the specific needs 



**Title: Good Hair**
**Author: Viola Clune**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In the end, curly seems like a fair 
middle—it’s not the wavy hair salon 
or the tight curl salon. She adds a final 
word: “if you have curls of any kind, 
we’re the place.”


Sharon Joy Salon and Trachouse 
both grapple with the material lim­
itations of the natural hair movement. 
People like my mom, who cut out relax­
ers and went natural, found that empow­
erment and hair “health” were no match 
for hair loss, whether due to chemother­
apy, alopecia, or any other host of factors. 
How can you go natural when your hair 
simply won’t grow?


At Sharon Joy Salon, I talk to styl­
ist Ranada Morrison. She’s currently in 
school to become a licensed trichologist, 
someone who studies diseases or prob­
lems related to the hair and scalp.
“After the pandemic, when we came 
back into the salon, I noticed that a lot 
of clients were suffering from hair loss,” 
Ranada tells me as she presses a client’s 
hair. She felt a responsibility to help them, 
but because it wasn’t something taught in 
cosmetology school, she enrolled in the 
Institute of Trichology Studies online. 
Though she’s not fully done with her 
trichologist certification, she shows me 
a before and after photo of a client she’s 
helped. “She’s been suffering from alo­
pecia for ten years,” she explained, “and I 
was able to help her in a few weeks.” 
Renee 
Brown, 
the 
owner 
of 
Trachouse, specializes in hair loss 
through another medium: wigs. Every 
October, Trachouse hosts what they 
call the “Pink Project,” a day where 
breast cancer survivors will receive a 
makeup application, wig installation, 
and photoshoot with food and gifts, all 
provided for by the salon and its donors. 
Wigs, which may seem at odds 
with the natural hair movement, can 
be understood as an extension of one 
of its central goals: choice. Both Sharon 
Joy Salon and Trachouse are looking 
for new ways to help their clients when 
those choices are limited. 


My mom tried wigs, too, but decided 
they weren’t for her. 
After the second round of chemo, 
her hair began to fall out. One night, we 
sat side-by-side on the couch, watch­
ing TV, when I noticed a clump of hair 
subtly distended from her scalp. It was 
in the process of falling.
For a moment, I forgot there was an 
obvious cause and asked “what’s that?” 
As my mom pulled that piece 
out, the hair offering no resistance, we 
couldn’t help but remember. She was 
calm; I pretended to be. I’d done my 
mom’s hair before—I liked to do hair, 
and it saved money. My mom wasn’t too 
particular about those things. I’d cut her 
bangs, styled it when it was curly and 
natural, and given her twist outs.
I sprang into action. I told her I’d 
give her a short haircut, cute yet mod­
ern, like ones she’d had before. I got the 
scissors and a comb and carried a dining 
room chair into the living room for her 
to sit. 
I had to comb to cut, but as I 
combed, the hair kept coming. It was 
unexpected. I didn’t imagine she’d lose 
this much, this soon. I was trying to stop 
the bleed.
We went upstairs to wash her hair 
in the tub. She sat, kneeling over the 
tub, her head under the faucet—the 
way I had so many times before—and 
I kneeled behind her, the same way she 
would. I lathered shampoo in her hair 
and scrubbed, and the hair kept falling. 
Now, the water bound it to my hands. 
How was there so little when there 
had been so much? 
I wasn’t able to be strong anymore, 
to keep up the problem-solving noncha­
lant charade, even for her. Was I stand­
ing or sitting when the tears came? It’s 
all awash. Even though it was her hair 
and her battle, it was my mom who held 
me in that moment, and told me that it 
was okay. That it was “just hair.”    


In the world of Black hair, it can 
feel impossible to extricate oneself from 
a painful past of denigration and dehu­
manization. Efforts to empower women 
and Black people—to uphold the right 
to choose what to do with your hair—
are complicated by the implication each 
style carries. 


As Monique sits under the dryer, 
her curly hair cutting session almost 
complete, a teenage boy walks into the 
salon, still dressed in his school uniform. 
When he expresses doubt that he’s in the 
right place, I remember what Susie said 
about trauma that she and other curly 
girls experience, and I think about the 
boys, too, about everyone. A member of 
the The Curly Hair Salon team assures 
him that he’s arrived. He admits he has 
never had a curly cut or styling before. 
Soon, he’s grinning as the hairdresser 
shapes and defines his fro.


The Curly Hair Salon, like those 
around it, exists as a contradiction, inter­
vention, remembrance, and stagnation 
at once. The ever-growing salon indus­
try in New Haven suggests that there 
is something complementary about 
these contradictions, something inher­
ent about them to these practices. Or it 
suggests, as Renee said, that “people will 
always want to get cute.”∎

Viola Clune is a junior 
in Ezra Stiles College and an 
Associate Editor of The New Journal.


**Title: Delivery Fee**
**Author: Maggie Grether**
**Page number(s): 31, 32, 33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
November 2023
Local doulas and midwives 
struggle to offer critical birth 
services amid rising maternal 
mortality rates and shrinking 
networks of care.
By Maggie Grether
layout design By Cate roser, Photography by Nithya Guthikonda


A
t her day job at Yale Dining, Shamica 
Frasier is who co-workers turn to with 
all birth-related questions. Pregnant 
co-workers consult with her on breastfeed­
ing, mood swings, and unexpected changes 
in their body. Other colleagues solicit health 
advice to pass on to their wives, grandmas, 
cousins, and friends.
Frasier loves these questions, no mat­
ter how random or intimate. Birth is 
her life's work. When she’s not at 
Franklin and Murray dining 
halls, Frasier is a doula, guid­
ing clients through a birth­
ing process often marred 
by confusion and fear. 
“Being a doula isn’t 
just you clock in one day 
and clock out,” Frasier says. 
“You’re always clocked in.” 
Since becoming a doula 
three years ago, Frasier has 
discovered that everyone has 
questions about childbirth—
especially Black families, who 
can receive inadequate hospital care 
and face grim maternal and infant health 
disparities.
Frasier, whose red glasses match the magen­
ta-streaked locs that tumble over her shoulders, 
developed an interest in health and anatomy as a 
young girl. She was a teenager when she became 
pregnant with her first child. The birth of her sec­
ond child a few years later was traumatic. 
After her second birth, Frasier began to won­
der: were other Black mothers experiencing simi­
larly harrowing births? What could she do to give 
other people a better experience?
Researching online, she came across the term 
“doula,” a companion who provides emotional and 
physical support to parents throughout pregnancy, 
birth, and the postpartum period. She learned 
how, for centuries, births in African American 
communities were attended by midwives and 
birth companions who drew from African heal­
ing traditions.
The idea of becoming a doula captivated 
Frasier. As a doula, she could directly support 
parents like herself without incurring massive 
student debt to become a highly-trained med­
ical professional. While both midwives and 
doulas focus on low-intervention, natural births, 
midwifery involves professionalized medical 
care. Certified nurse-midwives, the most highly 
trained type of midwife, must complete three 
degrees and pass a national certification test in 
order to practice. Doulas, in contrast, can become 
certified through a variety of different channels, 
including workshops, online training, and shad­
owing other doulas. 
Frasier signed up for training, became a cer­
tified breastfeeding counselor, and eventually 
opened her own New Haven-based business, 
New Birth Journey, in 2019. Since she began prac­
ticing three years ago, Frasier has helped fifteen 
clients through their pregnancies. 
“Being able to see moms overcome something 
that they fear…being able to usher them through 
a whole life changing experience—it’s been a love 
for me,” Frasier says. 
Doulas have risen in prominence over the 
past few years, with several studies linking 
doula care with higher rates of vagi­
nal births, a reduction in preterm 
births, and a lower likelihood of 
birth complications. Last sum­
mer, Connecticut Governor 
Ned Lamont signed S.B. 986, 
which will create a state cer­
tification process for doulas 
and provide Medicaid cov­
erage for doula care, among 
other provisions. Advocates 
argue that the state should 
invest in doulas to help keep 
parents and infants healthy as 
maternal mortality rates climb and 
access to maternal care narrows. 
The United States faces a mater­
nal health crisis. The number of pregnancy-re­
lated deaths in the United States doubled in 
the last twenty years. Over the same period 
of time, maternal mortality in other high-in­
come countries declined—even though the U.S. 
spends more per capita on healthcare. Black and 
Indigenous women experience the highest rates 
of pregnancy-related complications, with rates of 
pregnancy-related deaths for Black people three 
times higher than the rate for white people. 


As maternal mortality rates climb, people 
across the country face fewer options for where 
and how they can deliver their babies. More than 
one in ten U.S. counties have lost obstetrical units 
in the past five years. At least five Connecticut 
hospitals have terminated their maternity wards 
since 2010, many after being acquired 
by larger healthcare corporations. 
In New Haven, the closure of 
the Vidone Birth Center at 
Saint Raphael Hospital 
has narrowed options for 
people seeking low-in­
tervention, 
midwife­
ry-centered births. 
The financial push 
for hospital consoli­
dation and the closure 
of maternity wards has 
made 
it 
increasingly 
difficult for doulas and 
midwives to care for low-in­
come communities. Doulas 
like Frasier, intent on giving qual­
ity care to the people who need it most, 
find themselves working in a profit-driven system 
set up against them. 
Black and Indigenous women 
experience the highest rates of 
pregnancy-related complications, 
with rates of pregnancy-related 
deaths for Black people three 
times higher than the rate for 
white people.
More than one in ten U.S. 
counties have lost obstetrical 
units in the past five years. At 
least five Connecticut hospitals 
have terminated their maternity 
wards since 2010, many after 
being acquired by larger health­
care corporations.


Before giving birth, patients may only see 
their doctor and nurses a handful of times, if at 
all. Frasier prides herself on working with clients 
from the very beginning of pregnancy to well 
after the baby is born. While clients are preg­
nant, she teaches them different birthing posi­
tions and explains what to anticipate during the 
delivery. During labor, Frasier is by her client’s 
side, whether they’re delivering in the hospital 
or at home. After the pregnancy, she helps cli­
ents breastfeed, watches the newborn while the 
new parent rests, and even does loads of laundry. 
Frasier’s job, as she tells it, is to help her clients 
feel knowledgeable about their options, especially 
in the hospital.
“It’s giving them that confidence to be able 
to not walk out with their tail between their 
legs, but their head up and shoulders back 
like ‘Hey, I have an idea of what I’m talking 
about,’” Frasier says. She is keenly aware 
of how Black patients’ voices are often 
pushed to the margins in a hospital 
setting, and how the birthing pro­
cess can spin out of their control.
“There’s a cascade of inter­
ventions that often happen in 
hospital births that themselves 
can be harmful, can cause 
adverse outcomes—what we call 
birth trauma—and take away 
control from the patients,” Gina 
Novick, Associate Professor of 
Midwifery at the Yale School of 
Nursing, explains. 
While such interventions, includ­
ing C-sections and inductions, can be 
necessary to protect pregnant people and 
infants, unnecessary C-sections can have 
lethal consequences, including infections, 
blood clots, and hemorrhaging. C-section 
rates above 19 percent of live births have not been 
shown to improve maternal or infant health, but 
in Connecticut, 35 percent of births are C-sections. 
In 2021, the C-section rate for Black women in the 
United States was 19 percent higher than the rate for 
white women.
Jessica Westbrook, another New Haven-
based doula, views herself as an advocate for 
clients in the hospital setting. Like Frasier, 
Westbrook decided to become a doula after 
receiving poor hospital care, feeling isolated and 
abandoned after the birth of her first child. As a 
doula, she says that she notices discrepancies in 
the treatment her white and Black clients receive 
at the hospital—even with the same provider. 
“Sometimes they treat the women of color 
like they are just numbers,” Westbrook said. “It 
just seems very routine—there’s no sort of bed­
side manner that feels comfortable with them.” 
She’s observed an increased push for C-sections 
with her Black clients. 
Westbrook described working with a recent 
client, a Black woman pregnant with twins. 
Hospital staff wanted to put her on a steroid as 
part of “standard procedure.” After pressing pro­
viders on why the woman needed the steroid and 
what the possible side effects could be, hospital 
staff checked the patient’s file and saw that she 
was allergic to the steroid. Westbrook believes 
that if she hadn’t intervened, the woman could 
have lost her life. 
“Medicine is driven to look at people like 
a complication, like a disease,” says Lucinda 
Canty, a certified nurse-midwife and Associate 
Professor of Nursing 
at University of Massachusetts, Amherst. “When 
I was in the hospital setting, it was like a woman 
comes in—if she’s not really in labor, we’re going 
to send her home. If she doesn’t move fast enough, 
we’re going to have to give her Pitocin or medi­
cine to speed things up. If she’s still not moving 
fast enough we’ve got to start thinking about a 
Cesarean. Once she comes into the system, she’s 
already a problem.” 
Childbirth in the United States wasn’t 
always so medicalized. In 1900, half of all babies 
in the United States were delivered by midwives, 
who were mainly immigrants from Europe 
and Mexico, or Black women. Katy Dawley, 



**Title: Delivery Fee**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
nurse-midwife and professor at Drexel University, 
has written about how early twentieth century 
physicians, nurses, and public health reformers, 
intent on building credibility for obstetrics and 
bringing births into the hospital, launched a calculated campaign to stamp out Black and immigrant midwives. Advocates began writing racist 
and xenophobic articles that framed midwives as 
backwards, ignorant, and dirty—one published in 
Harper’s Magazine in 1930 decried “rat-pie midwifery.” Such articles ignored statistics showing 
that births attended by Black and immigrant 
midwives in the nineteen-twenties and nineteenthirties had significantly lower death rates. 
By the nineteen-thirties, midwives only 
attended 15 percent of births in the United 
States. Now, almost a century later, midwives 
attend about 


12 percent of births in the U.S. This attendance 
is significantly lower than in countries like 
England where midwives deliver nearly half of 
all babies and maternal outcomes are much safer. 
Today, only 7 percent of midwives are Black. 
Hafeeza Ture, a mother of three from a 
multi-generational New Haven family, can trace 
this shift away from the home and into hospitals through her own lineage. Her grandmother’s 
generation was the first to give birth in a hospital. Both her grandmother and mother used formula instead of breastfeeding. After unsatisfying 
prenatal appointments with an OB-GYN, Ture 
decided to have her children at a freestanding 
birth center, and then at home, attended to by 
midwives and doulas. 
For Ture, returning to natural births felt 
like returning to a tradition that runs in her 
blood. She never had the opportunity to ask 
her great-grandmothers about her memories of 
childbirth, but she thinks about what they might 
have told her. 
“I wish I could have sat at their feet and asked 
them: what was this like, what was that like?” she 
said. “Do you recall your grandmother’s mother?”


On a Thursday evening in early 
October, 
Oni 
Muhammad 
takes a brief dinner break at 
home before heading back 
to Yale New Haven Hospital 
to complete her on-call midwifery shift. Her day started 
at 8 a.m. when she attended a 
C-section and saw a postpartum 
patient. She’s headed back to the 
hospital at 8 p.m. and will be there 
until 8 a.m. the next morning.
Muhammad will be on-call for a 
total of twenty-four hours. She will only get paid 
for eight. 
“We get paid more in karma, and less in cash,” 
she says. 
Muhammad is a certified nurse-midwife at 
Fair Haven Community Health Clinic, a federally recognized health center. Latine activists 
founded the clinic in the early nineteen-seventies, 
frustrated by the lack of accessible and culturally 
sensitive care for Fair Haven’s growing Latine 
community. Many patients live within walking 
distance of the center. Today, the majority of the 
clinic’s patients are either underinsured or uninsured, and over half of patients earn less than half 
of the federal poverty line. Since Connecticut 
expanded Medicaid coverage of prenatal and 
postpartum care available to undocumented 
immigrants last year, the clinic has seen more 
than a 20 percent increase in patients.
This increase means Muhammad and other 
midwives at the Fair Haven clinic are working in 
overdrive. Five full-time midwives at the clinic 
work to provide continuous care, from prenatal 
counseling to accompanying patients to hospitals like Yale New Haven Hospital for delivery. 
Muhammad estimates that she helps deliver 
fifteen to twenty births a month. Recently, the 
midwives renegotiated their contracts with Fair 
Haven Health Clinic to decrease their on-call 
hours to avoid burnout: instead of a monthly 
seventy-two hour on-call shift, the midwives 
will have a forty-eight hour shift every five weeks. 
For their weekly twenty-four hour on-call shifts, 
their salaries still only compensate one-third of 
their hours. 
“[Midwifery care] is not compensated because 
it’s not lucrative,” Muhammad says. “C-sections 
are much more lucrative from an insurance standpoint. On-call and vaginal births are just not 
where the money is at.”
Like midwives, doulas who want to serve 
low-income families struggle to make a living. 
With S.B. 986’s implementation still in process, doulas are not currently covered through 
Medicaid in the state of Connecticut, meaning 
that hiring a doula requires out-of-pocket 
money. Frasier charges $700 for 
“Birth Support,” which includes 
services like prenatal visits, 
constant accessibility over 
text, support during labor, 
breastfeeding help, and 
a postpartum visit. She 
charges $30 an hour for 
additional 
postpartum 
services, and $20 an hour 
for lactation consultation. 
Frasier tries to connect clients who cannot pay with 
programs that will cover the 
cost of her services. She often 
finds herself drastically reducing 
her fees so she can provide care for 
the underserved Black communities who 
motivated her to become a doula to begin with. 
Still, she wonders: how accessible is her care to a 
teenage mom, like the one she once was?
Frasier's dream is to quit her day job at Yale 
Dining and commit herself to being a full-time 
doula. Right now, the money is simply not there. 


Over the past thirty years, large healthcare 
corporations have engulfed Connecticut’s independent hospitals. The two largest, Hartford 
HealthCare and Yale New Haven Health System 
(YNHHS), own nearly half of the hospitals in 
the state. After consolidating, many hospitals 
cut services to cut costs, and labor and delivery is 
often one of the first to go. 
In 2007, Hartford HealthCare acquired 
Windham Hospital, which had been struggling 
financially. In 2020, the hospital closed its labor 
and delivery unit. After Nuvance Health acquired 
Sharon Hospital, the hospital filed for permission 
to terminate its birthing services in 2021.
A similar story has played out in the heart 
of downtown New Haven with Saint Raphael 
Hospital’s Vidone Birth Center. Founded in 1907 
as a small Catholic hospital, Saint Raphael was 
acquired by YNHHS in 2012. After Yale School 
of Nursing midwifery began its practice at St. 
Raphael’s the following year, the Vidone Birth 
Center developed a strong reputation as 
a midwife-centered, low-intervention birthing center. 
“We really built it to thrive 
on a midwifery-led model 
of care and had excellent 
outcomes,” said Michelle 
Telfer, a certified midwife 
and Assistant Professor in 
Midwifery and Women’s 
Health at the Yale School 
of Nursing who worked at 
Saint Raphael. “We were 
drawing patients from all 
over the state.” 
The midwifery model practiced by Telfer and other midwives 
at Saint Raphael focused on helping 
patients give birth as naturally as possible. Midwives avoided social inductions—early 
labor inductions performed for patient or provider convenience rather than medical necessity. 
In 2014, Saint Raphael established the Vidone 
Volunteer Doulas program which provided 
on-call doulas to support people during labor, 
opening access beyond patients who hired a 
doula privately. In 2015, 20 percent of births at 
Saint Raphael were C-sections—well under the 
state average of 34 percent. 
In the spring of 2020, YNHHS closed the 
Vidone birth center at Saint Raphael. Citing 
concerns about COVID-19 transmission and an 
inability to operate two obstetric units during 
the pandemic, YNHHS consolidated the Saint 
Raphael unit with the maternity ward at Yale 
New Haven Hospital. The two units merged in 
less than two weeks. Though YNHHS initially 
intended for the consolidation to be temporary, 
the Vidone Birth Center never reopened.
The obstetrical unit at Yale New Haven 
Hospital is now the largest in the state. According 
to Cynthia Sparer, executive director of Yale New 
Haven Children’s Hospital, the decision to permanently merge the two delivery units was made 
in order to centralize care and provide better 
services to both low and high-risk patients. Yet 
Telfer, Muhammad, Westbrook, and Frasier—
along with three other midwives and doulas 
with experience delivering at Yale New Haven 
Hospital—shared that since the consolidation, 
Saint Raphael’s original midwifery-led, low-intervention model has dissolved. Providers and 
patients pointed to three central issues: a hospital 
layout that limits communication between nurses 
and residents; burnout and high rates of turnover 
among staff; and a pressure to speed up births, 
sometimes due to inadequate bed capacity. 
At Saint Raphael’s Vidone birth center, one 
hallway housed six labor beds, the nurses’ station, 
and the provider call room. “I feel like it made for 
safer outcomes, just because we can see each other 
easier in a small environment,” said Muhammad, 
who has worked at both Saint Raphael and Yale 
New Haven Hospital. 
Now, 
at 
Yale 
New 
Haven 
Hospital, nurses, residents, and 
private 
practitioners 
occupy 
physically separate rooms, and 
there is no room large enough 
for nurses, residents, and 
midwives to review patient 
records together. This distance forces communication 
over text from siloed sections 
of the labor unit instead of 
face-to-face discussion. Telfer 
expressed concern over this 
dependence on digital problem-solving. “I think a lot gets lost,” 
she said. “When you have less collaboration you have less communication, and not 
as good outcomes for patients.”
Telfer sees this physical isolation as a remnant of the COVID-19 pandemic, when the 
hospital intentionally limited contact between 
different providers. But even now, the separated 
sectors of the labor unit continue to hinder 
communication efforts. 
“Structurally, you don’t see people. You 
don’t have that visual contact with people,” said 
Heather Reynolds, lecturer in the Nurse-Midwife 
Specialty program at Yale School of Nursing. 
Though 
Hospital 
increased its bed capacity during renovations 
in 2018, the hospital still sent a few overflow 
patients to Saint Raphael each year before the 
Vidone Birth Center closed. Since the consolidation, no new labor beds have been added 
to the hospital, meaning capacity across Yale 
and Saint Raphael is down six beds. Patients 
sometimes labor in triage because there is no 
labor bed available. While the triage beds are 
designed to “flex” into labor beds, Telfer and 
Muhammad said that the triage beds are not 
ideal for labor—there is no room for more 
than one support person, and laboring patients 
must walk through triage to use the toilet. 
Additionally, triage beds do not accommodate 
different birthing positions. 
Both Telfer and Muhammad said that the 
shortage of labor beds can create pressure to perform C-sections. Telfer said nurses have asked 
her to intervene to speed up births, because 
there's no time for a physiologic birth if other 
patients are waiting for a bed. 
“Turnover has been
dramatic,” Telfer said. 
“I barely know any of the 
nurses there. A lot of the 
ones who have been there for 
many years have left to do other 
things—they are very unhappy 
with the pressure and the lack 
of safety at times of having to 
care for too many people 
at once.”



**Title: A Safe Beginning**
**Author: Maggie Grether**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The stress is palpable for doulas Frasier 
and Westbrook. They recall providers looking 
overworked and understaffed when accom­
panying patients to Yale New Haven 
Hospital. Telfer and Muhammad 
also described an atmosphere 
of staff burnout and fatigue. 
“Turnover 
has 
been 
dramatic,” Telfer said. “I 
barely know any of the 
nurses there. A lot of 
the ones who have been 
there for many years 
have left to do other 
things—they are very 
unhappy with the pres­
sure and the lack of safety 
at times of having to care 
for too many people at once.” 
Executive Director Sparer 
said that while several senior 
nurses left during the pandemic and 
there has been turnover among midwives at the 
hospital, retention has been very high among 
younger nurses. 

According to Westbrook, one of the patients 
she was working with was scheduled for a 
C-section at Yale New Haven Hospital so that 
the birth would be over before the doctor went 
on vacation. State Senator Robyn Porter, whose 
district includes New Haven, said she spoke with 
a woman who felt pressured to get an epidural 
she did not want. A close friend, who Porter con­
siders her non-biological niece, had a traumatic 
experience at Yale New Haven Hospital. She 
believes it resulted in the loss of her infant at five 
months old. 

Frasier said some of her clients wanted to 
deliver at Saint Raphael because of its reputation 
for patient-centered, low-intervention care but 
were disappointed to learn that they no longer 
had the option.
“Our practice from the last few years—the 
midwifery model is barely there. It is a very busy 
labor unit,” Telfer said. “We’re not providing the 
kind of model that midwifery is known for and 
actually reduces bad outcomes—reducing unnec­
essary Cesareans, preterm labor, preterm birth, 
NICU admission—because we’re not able to give 
full patient-centered care experience.” 

A Safe Beginning
Muhammad kneels next to a woman, per­
forming a vital check before a weekly prenatal 
group meeting. She and a medical assistant mea­
sure the woman’s blood pressure, pulse, weight, 
and fundal height—the distance from the pubic 
bone to the top of the uterus—to make sure fetal 
growth is on track.
“How are you feeling?” Muhammad asks. She 
wears a salmon-pink headwrap that matches her 
scrubs and speaks slowly, with a steady calmness. 
“Do you have any concerns?” An interpreter next 
to her translates her words into Spanish. 

Next to Muhammad, the members of the 
prenatal group sit in a circle of chairs, some 
accompanied by their partners. A projector plays 
a video about breastfeeding on the wall. A table 
with tortilla chips, dip, and a veggie platter stands 
in the corner. In the hallway outside, a red sign 
reads “Keep Calm and Call the Midwife.” 

The prenatal group convenes weekly to build 
community between parents and provide infor­
mation beyond what Muhammad can cover 
during a twenty-minute consultation. During the 
sessions, Muhammad isn’t as much of a lecturer 
as she is a facilitator. The women share concerns 
they’ve noticed, such as swollen feet, brittle nails, 
and heartburn, and share tips and solutions. They 
talk about the importance of healthy relation­
ships during pregnancy. The final question of the 
day is “how would you like to enjoy the rest of 
your pregnancy?” 

The session ends, as it does every week, 
with a breathing exercise. Muhammad puts 
on an acoustic track. Everyone stands up and 
breathes together: in through the nose, out 
through the mouth. 
“This is how I want you to breathe during 
labor,” Muhammad says. “This is how I want you 
to breathe if you need to get a C-section.” 

Following Muhammad, everyone in the room 
reaches their arms up towards the ceiling. Behind 
them, the guitar swells.∎


**Title: Delivery Fee**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

They talk about the 
importance of healthy 
relationships during pregnancy. 
The final question of the day is 
“how would you like to enjoy the 
rest of your pregnancy?” 


**Title: When the Paint Dries**
**Author: Tashroom Ahsan**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

O 
n october 4th, 1984, a group 
of Yale students carried cans full 
of paint into the Lillian Goldman 
Law Library. Some hands grabbed boxes 
of catalog cards. They dusted the floor 
with delicate slips, dropping hundreds 
of hours of work—in paper catalogs—
onto the ground. They painted “Support 
Local 34” in massive letters in red across 
the center of the reading room car­
pet. More notes in support of Local 34 
defaced sections of the floor. Smaller 
messages littered carrels throughout the 
building. “Shut it down,” the wooden 
walls decried. The protestors left one 
catalog card propped up in the center 
of the library. It implored Yale to accept 
the worker’s binding arbitration. They 
left the building before any workers 
entered, leaving the door locked behind 
them. The vandals were not caught. 

For months prior to the incident, 
tension had been mounting throughout 
Yale’s campus. In response to being sig­
nificantly underpaid, a cohort of clerical 
and technical Yale employees, which 
were 82 percent female at the time, 
unionized and formed Local 34 and 
Local 35. Protests followed, culminat­
ing in more than five thousand people 
demanding that Yale meet the workers’ 
demands. Subsequent teach-ins, faculty 
reports, and worker testimonials shed 
light on the discrimination occurring. 

Despite these protests and the flood of 
information, Yale remained steadfast in 
meager compromises, insisting that they 
were paying staff fairly. They maintained 
vague policies regarding free speech. 
Police shut down nonviolent protests 
despite them conforming to policies, 
and some professors harassed students, 
with one writing to a protesting student 
that other faculty members were “out 
for his scalp.” Yale stood behind those 
who shut down transgressions. Workers 
went on strike throughout October and 
November of 1984. Picket lines blocked 
off buildings and classes moved into 
off-campus locations like the Grove 
Street Cemetery. 

Critical
In the battle against 
student and administrative apathy, the 
vandals chose an emotive outburst as 
their weapon. They transgressed author­
ity—in this instance, Yale—by harming 
its property. Maria Jose Hierro, a professor 
of political science at Yale, says that van­
dalism, when linked to protest, “relates 
to emotions, to anger, to frustration, to 
some form or feeling that is the outcome 
of a grievance...it calls the attention of the 
authority but it’s about the individual’s 
expression.” Perhaps the vandals felt their 
voices and faces were not enough. They 
needed a faceless, bright red, and massive 
expression, one that explicitly defies the 
authority, to demand their acknowledg­
ment. They expressed themselves in a way 
that cannot be ignored. 

And they weren’t alone. Yale’s history 
of vandalism adorns each social move­
ment. With each major twentieth century 
protest—the Black Panthers, anti-Apart­
heid in South Africa, anti-Gulf War 
intervention—came a slew of shattered 
glass, graffitied walls, and broken doors. 
This act of vandalism in 1984 con­
tained an attempt at strategy. A mem­
ber of the group anonymously called 
reporters of the Yale Daily News. She 
claimed that Yale was oblivious to stu­
dents bearing the brunt of the strike, 
stating that she was tired of having 
classes in a graveyard and “wanted to 
bring it close to home to end student 
apathy.” She explicitly distanced the 
vandals’ actions as separate from the 
Union and the University. 
The Union, writing to 
the News in response, 
claimed that such tac­
tics only harmed their 
movement. Another stu­
dent in the News wrote 
that such actions were 
cowardly because they 
hid themselves behind 
anonymity, not allow­
ing for conversational 
responses. 
Allies—
including the very 
Union 
itself—crit­
icized the medium 
of the transgression, 
with little regard 
for its message, in 
response to van­
dalism. Attention 
heeded, but con­
versations shut down.
Vandalism often incurs controversy, 
allowing for others to criticize the move­
ment due to its destruction rather than the 
message of the movement itself. For Hierro, 
the strategic calculus of vandalism seldom 
justifies it. “One wants to disrupt authority 
without thinking about the consequences 
of those actions and how those conse­
quences distort your message,” she says. 
“You get a lot of pushback from potential 
allies or the authority.” 

The consequences of these actions 
go further than disagreeability. In a 
News report, a Law Librarian Morris 
Cohen remarked that the main individ­
uals affected by the actions were those 
that had to clean it up. Though prop­
erty damage may appear to disrupt the 
authority that manages it, those who 
steward the property are often more 
affected than the superseding authority. 
* * *
B
ut what if vandalism’s transgression 
is creative instead of destructive? 
Here we encounter graffiti, where the 
defiance of authority becomes the basis 
of community.
Kevin Repp, the curator of the 
Beinecke’s current exhibit—“Art, Protest, 
and the Archives”—talks through sev­
eral of these examples. “Art,” he says, “can 
sit on the edge of violence.” He tells me 
this as we sit between cases with Dadaist 
works that gesture to the horrors of 
World War I and photos of the Sioux art 
tent pipeline protests in South Dakota. In 
each instance, people were bound by the 
art they formed. He tells me that certain 
artistic communities, brought together 
through creation, retain their energy by 
implicit transgression. To him, art’s trans­
gression either unfolds through straight­
forward messages or by directing the 
viewer’s emotions against reason using 
shock. In each instance, art challenges 
an authority’s narrative, either by ques­
tioning or offering a counternarrative. By 
maintaining this challenge, art edges on 
violence. And, centered around the edge 
where art subsists, people come together.
Graffiti can tie people together 
through transgressive narratives just 
as art does. Hierro recalls a summer 
she spent teaching in Barcelona where 
student organizations painted murals 
advocating for socialism, independence, 
and women’s rights. “To me, those were 
very artistic, and they were art—in the 
sense that they were trying to leave an 
imprint, in the walls of their university, 
of their ideals.” 

In other instances, people call for 
empathy through art. She tells me 
about graffiti on walls in Mexico and 
in Palestine. “Why are they in English?” 
she asks. “Because they are seeking the 
solidarity of people in other places in the 
world.” Uniting around the defiance of a 
common authority, graffiti can combine 
art’s coalescing power with vandalism’s 
transgression to sustain a community.
T
he frustration with Yale as an 
authority, both in dictating permis­
sible expression and in determining 
institutional action, remains. Yet Yale’s 
campus remains mostly pristine. In the 
last decade, the only publicized acts of 
property damage have been hate speech 
graffitied onto overlooked public spaces. 
Why are these the most visible afterlives 
of vandalism? What’s changed?
An initial explanation is that Yale 
focuses more on its community than ever 
before. Joey Adcock, an area manager 
for the campus, pulls out a graffiti-re­
moval spray can from his desk drawer 
as he describes this shift. “I’ve wanted 
service staff to be seen, to show we take 
care of the place, that we care enough 
to be out in public and be a resource 
for those around us,” he says, “and as a 
result, custodial staff are more respected.” 
The consideration for those who are 
harmed by property damage seems 
to have landed with some students. 
Adriana Colón Adorno ’20. , an alumna 
layout design by Alicia Gan



**Title: When the Paint Dries**
**Author: Tashroom Ahsan**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
who organized with the Environmental 
Justice Coalition during her years as a 
student, told me that “vandalism just 
wasn’t at the top of our minds because 
we thought there were other things we 
could do that were based more on build­
ing community.” 

Another explanation is that incessant 
surveillance prevents property dam­
age. Police presence at Yale has evolved 
beyond bodies. Property itself can see, 
too, with cameras watching students 
everywhere at all times. As Adcock 
explains it, there are more eyes watching, 
with cameras at every corner, and more 
mechanisms for faceless expression. The 
internet now platforms countless anon­
ymous voices. He leans back in his chair, 
saying, “Anonymity is huge. It’s a lot 
easier for people to just open up a lap­
top, open up the phone, and, and put 
out what they want. It takes a lot more 
time, thought, and effort to put a mes­
sage out in writing.” The internet’s ano­
nymity grows even more attractive when 
one realizes that nearly every physical 
place is monitored, with skilled investi­
gators prepared to track down culprits. 
Vandalism has lost its anonymity, while 
the internet makes anonymous expres­
sion far easier than ever before. 

And even when students move 
to touch things without the intent to 
destroy, surveillance pounces on them. 
“Vandalism” has become a term Yale uses 
to antagonize disagreeable movements. 
The Native and Indigenous Student 
Association at Yale—Yale’s oldest and 
largest organization of Indigenous stu­
dents—held a vigil for Missing and 
Murdered Indigenous Women in 2022. 
Hands, stamped with easily-washable 
red Crayola paint, covered the walls 
of Cross Campus in memory of these 
missing women. The activists both com­
municated their actions to Yale Facilities 
and planned to clean after themselves. 
Administrators messaged the organizers 
to immediately remove all displays. They 
strove to, but risked frostbite. A few dis­
plays were left to be cleaned the next 
morning. Organizers found themselves 
subject to more hostility—cleaned walls 
and responsible names demanded by 
administrators.

Later in the year, a pterodactyl, 
taken from Indigenous land by Yale 
professor O.C. Marsh in the nineteenth 
century and immortalized in a glass 
display case, found its shelter covered 
in small red sticky notes which read 
“STOLEN.” These actions were eas­
ily removable forms of protest which 
did not significantly disrupt campus 
life. Sticky notes are sticky notes, easily 
removable and nondestructive, espe­
cially when on a glass display case. The 
Yale Police Department identified the 
Native student protesters by their shirts 
and IDs, calling them to declare their 
acts as vandalism. The accusation was, 
evidently, not about the method of pro­
test, which was harmless. It was about 
its agreeability with the institution, an 
institution that could so easily frame 
certain actions as vandalism. 

Today, the incidents of vandalism 
that leak into this campus appear to be 
done by outsiders. In the last decade, the 
only major reported instances of vandal­
ism have been three acts of antisemitic 
hate speech. In each case, the Yale Police 
successfully identified the responsible 
culprits—the identified culprits were 
juveniles outside of the Yale community. 
They happened in less visible places than 
the other acts of vandalism—a bath­
room stall, an entryway door, the Law 
School steps. But these acts were pos­
sible only to those outside of the Yale 
community, those unable to be tracked 
by shirts and IDs. They act without fear 
of an institution that they don’t have to 
answer to. 

It remains an open question as to 
when vandalism will return to cam­
pus in the activist vein it once existed. 
Security camera screens, with their 
timestamps ticking away, may be the 
first to let us know.∎
Tashroom Ahsan is a sophomore in 
Davenport College and a Design 
Editor of The New Journal.
Illustrations by Angela Huo


**Title: Photo Essay**
**Author: Ángela Pérez**
**Page number(s): 41**

On Sunday, October 22nd, more 
than one thousand from Yale, New 
Haven, and throughout Connecticut 
gathered on the New Haven Green to 
march around the Elm City in solidarity 
with Palestine. They protested the ongo­
ing bombing campaign in Gaza, which 
the UN has called “a graveyard for chil­
dren,” and that has left more than ten 
thousand dead, according to Palestinian 
health officials.

Whole 
families, 
students, 
and 
organisers marched for about three 
hours, chanting “Free Palestine” or 
“Not another nickel, not another dime, 
not another dollar for Israel’s crimes,” 
among other chants. People donned tra­
ditional keffiyehs and masked their faces 
out of concern for the spike in doxing 
of openly pro-Palestine people across 
workplaces and campuses nationwide. 
The rally was organised by American 
Muslims for Palestine Connecticut, 
Students for Justice in Palestine at 
UConn, and Yalies4Palestine.



**Title: Resisting Collapse**
**Author: Caleb Dunson**
**Page number(s): 42**

I 
left for Oxford in January of 
2023, expecting that my life would 
be different there. I had spent the 
past four months in New Haven, in 
pain. First, it was swelling in the tis­
sue around my heart, which left me 
popping a dozen Ibuprofen a day 
to keep the feeling of a heart attack 
at bay. Then came the body aches 
and headaches, a product of stress 
and sleepless nights. At night, panic 
attacks brought the feeling that my 
chest was collapsing, my throat per­
manently closing. These were pains 
reserved for the United States; I 
imagined they would disappear on 
the other side of the Atlantic.

Then the insomnia came. Weeks 
after I could feasibly use jet lag as an 
explanation, I spent the hours between 
two and five a.m. laying awake in a suf­
focating room, lit only by the gray light 
of the low-hanging moon and the blue 
light of my phone screen. One night, I 
stayed awake simply because I was too 
afraid to go back to sleep. I had dreamt 
that my body was rotting from the soul 
outward, heart crumbling like stale 
bread, muscles going green, then black, 
bones eroding like brittle rocks. I woke 
up to stop the decay.

E
xcellence has always been the 
bar in my life. 
After years of academic achieve­
ment and extracurricular success, my 
friends and family have begun to oper­
ate under the assumption that I will 
regularly do extraordinary things. Their 
friends know me only through their 
stories and have come to see me as—to 
quote one of them—“a unicorn.” This 
picture of me grows all the more mythic 
by my being Black and from the west 
side of Chicago. I’m the first person that 
family friends and people in the neigh­
borhood know that has gone to Yale 
—whenever I come home, I field eager 
questions about the big things I have 
done and the big things I have planned. 
When I came back to Chicago for a few 
days this past summer, I ran into a friend 
of my mom’s on the street. He immedi­
ately introduced his children, told them 
where I went, and said they had to live 
up to what I had done with my life.

I go to a university made concrete to 
people from home only through movies 
and TV shows and rumors about the Ivy 
League—I have become an embodiment 
of their hopes. I am supposed to be the 
wealthy East-Coaster bold enough to 
leave Chicago, or the Black president 
that actually decides to help our com­
munity, or the public intellectual doing 
book talks and speaking tours. Whatever 
I become, it must be high-profile, but 
it cannot take me too far from home. I 
should be the one they can brag about 
at their churches and offices, but I need 
to stay generous and within reach. I 
have to say yes to every opportunity I 
get, because how often do people like 
me, from where I’m from, get them? It’s 
crucial that I take risks, but I have to be 
so, so careful because the world’s expec­
tations for me are much different than 
those of my family. 

When America acquitted George 
Zimmerman and forced me to read those 
headlines with my fourth-grade eyes, the 
country laid the possibilities for my life 
before me. Criminality, death, or both. I, 
from the west side of Chicago, will never 
be the Black president who started his 
political career in my hometown. I, Black 
boy from the west side of Chicago, will 
find bullets in my back or handcuffs on 
my wrists, or both, if I step out of line. I 
strove to meet my community’s expecta­
tions so that I could avoid settling into 
the world’s.

But when you carry the expectation 
of excellence into Yale, it’s easy for this 
place to collapse your identity. My time 
here would only be useful if I achieved 
those things worth bragging about, those 
things which definitively placed me on 
What is the cost of excellence?
layout design by lily lin



**Title: an extraordinary trajectory**
**Author: Caleb Dunson**
**Page number(s): 43**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
an extraordinary trajectory: university awards, club leadership positions, and summer fellowships.

Back home for the holidays with my extended family gathered in our living room, I explained how getting an internship at Goldman could set us up financially for life. The days spent feeling my heart sink as I walked past partners’ offices with floor-to-ceiling windows to get to my desk, and the evenings spent wandering down Lafayette street fighting back tears were not worth mentioning. I told my family about how being one of the first two Black opinion editors at the school newspaper was an act of legacy-building––leaving out the endless evenings of lost sleep and subsequent exhaustion. To win and keep their love, I measured myself by these accomplishments. I let their visions of ivy-covered walls and centuries-old castles give me an air of intelligence and distinction I could not create with honesty. There was no space in those stories for my real self. That was relegated to private conversations with my mother and grandmother, met sometimes with sympathy, and others with the suggestion that if I just kept working, kept accumulating achievements, the pain would be worthwhile.

I was hollow when I left for England. Throughout college, I had made no genuine effort to find myself, and I thought that leaving the US would finally give me the chance to do that. I imagined Baldwin in Europe, away from Harlem and unburdened by American racism, free enough to begin thinking, really thinking, about his life and the world in earnest. I imagined the same would happen to me. I expected my pain to dissolve with the weight of familial expectations, and expected I’d then grow into a fuller, more complex, self. But Oxford is not a place you go to to leave expectations behind.

Walking past sprawling Gothic colleges and into centuries old libraries reminded me that I was in a place of distinction, where heads of state went to be educated. Tutorials that required weekly 2000-word essays and hour-long debates with my professors reminded me that Oxford prized displays of academic rigor. Hearing students talk about their colleges’ multi-course formal dinners held in grand dining halls and opulent formal dances held at the Oxford Union reminded me that polish and manners separated the simply brilliant from those destined to lead.

Here, unable to reach familiar markers of significance, I recognized my hollowness. This placed me on my back, in my bed, at two a.m., fighting nightmares. Afraid of truly reckoning with myself, I instead sought the markers of success my new environment demanded. I acted as I thought a true intellectual might, spending hours at a time poring over books and papers under the high domed ceiling of the Radcliffe Camera. Trying to appear as cultured and well-traveled as my peers, I dragged across the continent on days I should have been resting. I thrifted button ups, wool sweaters, and corduroy pants in my attempt to cast myself as an Oxford student. With these experiences, I could perform enlightenment, say to my family that my time abroad had changed my perspective on the world. I could tell them stories, and they could tell those stories to their friends, and we could all remain comfortable in the lie that I was, am, doing well.


On the drive from the Hartford airport to New Haven, my pain and anxiety built as the campus’ Gothic buildings came into view. By the second week of this semester, my insomnia was back. I tried to ignore my pain and continue demanding excellence of myself, applying for postgraduate fellowships to return to Oxford and continue the lie. By the end of the first month, I was dealing with headaches, dizziness, and blurred vision. I did not get those fellowships, and I am still in pain.

I have no advice to give from my time abroad. I am a senior now, and I am realizing that I cannot recover the experiences I denied myself during my time here. In those hours I am awake––two, three, four a.m.––I now think about what college would have been if I had not lied, pretending to love what I do not. What I am left with, though, is this essay, my attempt at telling the truth. By putting pen to paper I am making myself and what I want more permanent. I am resisting letting expectations collapse my identity. And I am finally contending with the realization that I am far from where I want to be, still very much unknown to myself.∎
Caleb Dunson is a senior in Saybrook College.
illustrations by sarah feng



**Title: The Age of Looking**
**Author: Suraj Singareddy**
**Page number(s): 44-45**

Beyoncé opens the show center stage, visibly pregnant. Her stomach hangs like ripe fruit, encircled by gold chains, like the ones my grandmother wears on special occasions. Do you remember being born? She asks the audience. Her voice resonates like God. Do you remember the velvet of your mother and her mother and her mother? She snaps, and backup dancers appear around her like generations of descendants. Flower petals trickle down and cover their bodies. You look nothing like your mother. You look everything like your mother. You desperately want to look like her.

And I did. I wanted to move like she did. I began to sit like she sits with her morning coffee—one foot up on the stool, the other hanging to the earth. I conjured the way soapnut essence smelled in her cupped palm. The way henna paste clumped and tangled in her hair.

Everything about my mother is beautiful in the same way everything about Beyoncé in that 2017 Grammy performance is beautiful. She’s in herself. She’s at home in her body—like the stars and trees are in theirs.

I liked the idea that I came from a lineage of beautiful people. If my mother was beautiful, so was I. If I could believe in her beauty, I could believe in mine. There was honor in this inherited beauty, I’d decided.

Beyoncé’s generations spread themselves around the stage. She birthed so much time—so much legitimacy, a thing proven from having appeared again and again. I tried to mimic that with my own body—assuage my insecurities with the idea of life. In high school, I’d stare at my stomach in my bathroom mirror for hours, trying to map Beyoncé’s body onto mine. My stomach filled out three inches at its apex, a half-melon midsection. I’d cup it with my right hand and lay my left on top, trying to imagine the truth that might flow from its fullness. I could hold beauty and life in the toughest soft parts of me. I could be beautiful like Beyoncé if I chose to see it.

I wanted to be respected. I wanted to be wanted, and there were only two ways to reach that end. The first—beauty—was an acceptance of the self without additions. It was an acceptance of history and what it had repeated. The second—hotness—was the belief that desire could only be achieved with additions. It was an allure that one could only access by putting in the effort to be different than they were. Hotness was beauty’s shallow step-sister. It was skin-deep. It was conditional. It could not last.

I accepted being beautiful for a long time. I thought I was making the good choice, but really I’d stopped believing I’d be hot. I was someone who only grasped at hotness, a lightning bug between clasped hands. I couldn’t hold it there forever. It had no malleability or stability like beauty. It could not be seen in anything passed from mother to son. So I contented myself with ideas instead of feelings—trading the visceral pleasure of hotness for the loftiness of beauty. And then I went to India.


The days before the monsoon comes to Hyderabad are among the hottest of the year. It’s difficult to survive the mornings without air conditioning, which is why my sisters and I were huddled around the only functioning unit. We were in our mother’s childhood bedroom. She had a plastic bag in her hands, that she tipped over and spilled onto the bed sheets. A dozen or so photo albums. My sisters and I each grabbed one and began flipping. There were pictures from my mother’s childhood and my own. Kids in high waisted bell-bottoms and sweater vests on a balcony in Algeria. Me at 6 years old holding a Bharatnatyam pose in front of a washing machine.

I kept flipping, further and further back in time, until I landed on a black and white picture.

In it, my grandfather is James Dean. He stands in front of a soda shop. Glass bottles blanket the counter behind him, and an awning rolls overhead. He’s looking at someone I can’t see. Another man stands behind him, looking straight into the camera, but my grandfather’s the one in the light. His skin is smooth, and his hair falls in strands over his forehead, like mine on special days. The resemblance seems to come and go. His jawline is sharp. He’s a nineteen-fifties heartthrob. Maybe this is the picture we’ll use in his obituary.

I scan this picture, think for a second, and then come to a singular conclusion. And then, I have another thought. Cue the crisis. I had not been born into hotness, I’d thought. But here was my grandfather, proving if not what was, then what could be. I could imagine his magnetism as mine. I remembered, then, all the times my mother had told me I was handsome like my uncle. I remembered how I’d written it off as something mothers said. How can a mother know of anything other than beauty?

I flipped forward in the album and found a picture of him. He had the same, sharp cheekbones, and the same hair which rippled down his forehead. His skin stretched taut like I always thought mine would if I went to the gym. I paused, for a second, at this thought. I felt a desire, then, to find myself hot. I wanted my birthright. I wanted to claim my lineage in the way I was owed.


A week after I held those pictures, I left India. I flew to Laramie, Wyoming, an arid town of twenty thousand. I was there for a summer internship, but what I really wanted out of this summer was to have sex as part of a short, mutually non-committal relationship with a strange (hot) man in a small town. I was proud of myself for having set a measurable goal. I reminded myself that I could be different here—this was a place of no consequence. I downloaded Tinder the night I arrived.

Looking for: Short-term fun.

I started scrolling. See, the thing that I didn’t account for was Laramine’s size and location. Oh, twenty thousand? That’s almost a quarter of New Haven’s population. I’ll be fine. Wrong. It took all of twenty minutes for Gay Laramie Tinder to run out on me. I closed the app and hoped that someone might match with me.

I went to Planet Fitness two days later. I learned to run again. Living in Atlanta and New Haven hadn’t prepared me for the rigors of cardio at 7,200 feet. I didn’t try to look good at the gym. It was a place to prepare to desire, not to be desired. I wore baggy sweatpants tucked into socks with my “I took CS50” T-shirt (or something of an equally worrying nature) on top.


A week later, my match arrived. It was one of those sure, I guess matches. He reached out first. Said Hey, what’s up. I took two days to reply. Just chilling! What about you? We sent messages back and forth until the volume of them felt like we could say we knew each other. I layout design by ALICIA GAN | Photographs COURTESY OF SURAJ SINGAREDDY
Above: Singareddy’s grandfather (left).
My grandfather wasn’t beautiful. He was hot.
Am I supposed to be hot, too?



**Title: The Age of Looking**
**Author: Suraj Singareddy**
**Page number(s): 46-47**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
realized that I’d seen his face before. He 
worked evening shifts at the gym—sta­
tioned at the front desk every time I 
walked in. 

We didn’t speak in real life, other 
than a hey, which signaled a history. 
Sometimes, I’d tilt my head up—cran­
ing over his coworkers to see him—and 
almost smile. I did not want him, but I 
tried to act the part. 

I started dressing differently. I 
swapped my sweatpants out for jer­
sey shorts with a 7-inch inseam. How 
my thighs curved. How my calves 
mounted to a peak. I became infatuated 
with myself and the skin I could show. 
Summer is a good time to be hot. 

Outside of the gym, I wore the 
collared shirts my mother always told 
me would make me look powerful. 
Sometimes I’d wear them to the gym, if I 
hadn’t had time to change at home, and 
he’d message me afterwards. You looked 
good today. He reminded me that some­
one was looking. 

I was desired, so hotness became my 
reality. It was something which I could 
exercise and embody. I had been addicted 
to the idea that beauty could connect me 
to the world, but here was hotness doing 
the same. Acceptance—the passive exis­
tence that beauty bought—was no lon­
ger enough. I had worked to be wanted 
conditionally and achieve success in the 
economy of desire. And I enjoyed the gig. 

I feigned seduction with gym guy 
for the rest of the summer. He texted me, 
and I would text back days later. One day 
in late July, I opened Tinder after a week 
of no contact to find that his icon had 
vanished. I thought about seeing him 
again and began to work out exclusively 
in the mornings. 

* * *

I
n late August, I moved into my house 
in New Haven. The school year started, 
and I began going to the gym regularly 
again. When the weather allowed, I 
wore collared shirts and left two buttons 
undone for my 9 a.m. English seminar. 
My roommate called it slutty. 

Gradually, inevitably, the weather 
turned cold and cotton shirts became 
impractical. I layered on knit wool and 
began looking in the mirror less and 
less. What was there to see but fabric? 
Who was there to please with my crew 
neck sweaters?  

Without gym guy, there was no 
second set of eyes grounding hotness in 
reality. Its allure returned to my mind, 
where it joined beauty in the place where 
images reside. It was impossible to make 
either fully physical and present. 

It became more and more difficult to 
look in the mirror—to make a conscious 
choice in how I looked. 

The picture of my grandfather 
ceased to be anything more than an 
image stored on my phone. And like 
that version of him, my season of hot­
ness has become history. The age of 
looking is over.∎

Suraj Singareddy is a junior in 
Timothy Dwight College and a 
Podcast Editor of The New Journal.



**Title: Terminal E-O15**
**Author: Diya Naik**
**Page number(s): 49**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A single red sclera scans linoleum.
It encloses the 
white irises that I bathe the milling men and
women and children in. They are scattered 
on the smooth floor.
I stare down 
rows neater than hangars
columns of dates and times, and flights
an endless array of white arriveds 
and red lates. 
I spit out the brisk walking 
businesswoman, the curly haired teenager,
the bearded man with a black mandala 
on his shirt. Their shells roll with them,
worn as their faces. Tiny heads crane
to look through my eastern gate—searching
for mothers weary, fathers hurried, siblings
with sound proof headphones and textbooks 
weighing their carry ons. A crumb-fingered child 
hops to his mom, and a sister hands her a damp bouquet. 
A woman cannot stop her wide, toothy smile 
directed at my open mouth.
I chew all who are missed, so their faces weary are
lit up red seeing the ones caring. I chose the boundary
between away and returned. I decide when their waiting 
comes to a halt. I watch over them in red, bold. 
Unnoticed. In the end, no one disobeys my 
command. In the end, none of the travelers
ever turn back.
— Diya Naik


**Title: The God of Speed and Distant Messages**
**Author: Cal Barton**
**Page number(s): 50**

The boy comes in at ten to sit again. 
He is a model for Hermes. The sculptress 
wears safety glasses and earmuffs and 
her bootprints leave neat trails across 
her studio floor. She climbs a ladder 
and works on a big white face. In every 
direction: marble torsos, marble heads, 
marble all over. 
The boy watches. Three times this 
week he has woken in the sculptress’s 
bed and opened his eyes to the light of 
an unfamiliar window. The sculptress 
looks down at him, looks back at her 
work. Chink chink chink, says her 
chisel. Chink chink chink, chink chink 
chink. She tells the boy he is perfect 
for her project. The boy sits and smirks. 
He smirks because he is in love, and 
the sculptress, from atop her ladder, 
says his smirk is what she likes most 
about him. His smirk is just right for 
Hermes, god of thieves, god of speed 
and distant messages. 
But the smirk is not right. The boy is 
no god. The sculptress does not tell the 
boy, but when she chisels away at the nose, 
when she carves the fullness of the lower 
lip, she does not think of the boy’s nose 
and lip but of the nose and lip of a man 
she would like to make exist. Because with 
each stroke of the hammer, the sculptress 
thinks of the boy mispronouncing 
synecdoche; thinks of how his swaggered 
walk is clearly forced; thinks of that 
terribly embarrassing way he pouts when 
she is unimpressed by his poetry. The boy 
is no god. Here’s Hermes: curly-haired, 
marble, seven feet tall. The boy is not 
marble or seven feet tall. 
The sculptress wipes the back of 
a glove across her brow. She studies 
the face of the god she has made, and 
Hermes glows with something like 
gratitude. “He’s finished,” the sculptress 
says. “How do you know?” asks the 
boy. She says she just knows. One 
gets a feel for these things. But there’s 
more to it than that, of course. Hermes 
is finished, and she knows he is 
finished because all his imperfections 
are on the floor. The sculptress, for 
all her accolades, has just two skills: she 
locates something she doesn’t like—
and then she destroys it.
Flash Fiction


**Title: Home Amidst Ink and Coffee Beans**
**Author: Tina Li**
**Page number(s): 51**

I've lived here for two months 
already, and it’s clear this space does not 
allow for another. I am left holding frag­
ments of two homes in my bare hands. 
Norfolk has discolored from memory; 
New Haven has not materialized. I stop 
myself from waving hello to old friends 
on Cross Campus. They do not exist here. 
My dorm is decorated like my childhood 
bedroom—it is familiar but not the same. 
I swipe my card for a vanilla chai 
and a tattered paperback. Book Trader 
Cafe unites worlds: vintage and new, 
books and coffee, students and locals. 
Here, there is motion and stillness. 
Baristas bustle about, people stop to flip 
through a book then run out with a cup 
in hand. Stacks and shelves of novels are 
indomitable as they loom over me, but 
if I take one out the rest falls to a slant. 
Everything is a counterbalance; every­
thing exists in harmony. 
Each book is a living archive 
that would have been forgotten if not 
recorded; the pages are yellowed but their 
contents remain. Time sharpens their 
stories and they endure discoloration. 
Running my fingers along cracked, well-
loved spines, I think home has come into 
focus for me now. Though discrete, the 
two cities can coexist. My past and pres­
ent are reconciled.
—Tina Li



**Title: A Distant Mentorship**
**Author: Danya Blokh**
**Page number(s): 52-53**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“It is true that there is not enough beauty in the world. 
It is also true that I am not competent to restore it. 
Neither is there candor, and here I may be of some use.”
- Louise Glück, “October”

I
t was this very candor that char­
acterized our first interaction. I was a 
freshman at the time, and a friend who 
was enrolled in her workshop offered to 
introduce us if I walked her to class early. 
Nervous and giddy, I followed my friend 
into the seminar room and approached 
the head of the table. My literary idol 
looked surprisingly casual in her scarf 
and navy blue coat. “It’s so nice to meet 
you, Professor Gloock,” I said, hast­
ily pronouncing the last name with an 
exaggerated vowel, as in glucose. “You’ve 
been a huge inspiration for my poetry.” 
She looked at me and, without malice 
or warmth, said, “it’s pronounced Glück,” 
pronouncing the umlaut like the word 
“Buick” with the two vowels melded into 
one. Then she moved on with her class. 
Embarrassed as I felt, I was also amused 
that the real-life Louise Glück was just as 
straightforward as the one I’d encountered 
on the page. 


I first came across Glück’s criti­
cal essays as a 16-year-old poet. At the 
time, I was torn between loving poetry 
and hating what I deemed its self-im­
portant discourse. Many American 
poets, seeing the general public’s disdain 
for their work, responded by doubling 
down on praise of one another’s writ­
ing, making sweeping statements about 
poetry’s urgency rather than demon­
strating it. Glück was the first writer I 
found who departed from this ostenta­
tious tone. She wrote with clear passion 
for poetry’s inexhaustible mystery, and 
at the same time diagnosed contempo­
rary poetry’s drift toward self-obsession 
and fruitless abstraction, warning of the 
conditioned responses such tendencies 
evoked. Contemporary literary journals, 
she argued, are full of “poems in which 
secrets are disclosed with athletic avid­
ity…poems at once formulaic and inco­
herent.” I shivered at her recognition of 
the precise kind of poetry I had begun 
to write in hope of publication. She 
unveiled a new vocabulary for discussing 
poetry: one of aesthetics, form, and tone, 
one that recognized how poetry existed 
to make the world both more clear and 
more strange. In a sea of poets and 
critics who were constantly selling the 
importance of this or that work, Glück’s 
rejection of bullshit made her the only 
voice I could trust. 


It took me a couple years to explore 
Glück’s verse itself. Perhaps because I 
found her essays so incisive, I worried 
that her lines might disappoint me. They 
didn’t. Here, too, Glück rejected perfor­
mative drama for a deliberate and dis­
tant voice, one whose authority stilled 
you, whose scathing irony made you 
listen close and allowed glimpses of vul­
nerable beauty to cut ever more deeply. 
Take “Celestial Music,” which begins, “I 
have a friend who still believes in heaven. 
/ Not a stupid person, yet with all she 
knows, she literally talks to God.” Cruel 
and prosaic as Glück sounds here, she 
earns my trust. Having chuckled at her 
friend, I become receptive to her praise 
of this friend’s bravery, her disclosure of 
their shared affinity for wholeness, and 
the stunning ending when the two look 
upon a dead caterpillar and Glück writes, 
“It’s this stillness that we both love. / The 
love of form is a love of endings.” 


Whenever I was skeptical of poetry 
and deprived of inspiration, I returned 
to Glück’s texts. During the pan­
demic, I convinced my parents to rent 
an Airbnb near Alabama’s Lake Smith. 
We sat outside, the cicadas humming 
all around, the host’s labrador curled 
up at my feet, and read Glück’s poetry. 
For my parents, two Eastern European 
emigres who’d grown up on the Russian 
poetic tradition, Glück’s poems, as 
lucid in image and thought as those 
of Mandelstam and Akhmatova, were 
among those few which resonated with 
them. The three of us connected in our 
shared marveling. After my parents 
went to bed, I walked out on the dock 
and sat there for several hours with my 
Kindle copy of Averno. Periodically, I 
set down the glowing screen to look up 
at the stars, listen to the water, and let 
the words echo. I hope she will forgive 
my pathos here.


Glück’s poetry seminar was offered 
every fall semester, but through a con­
fluence of bad luck and trepidation 
at working closely with someone I 
admired, year after year passed with­
out me enrolling. My first year, I was 
so weary of poetry that I didn’t apply; 
my second year, after regaining passion 
for poetry through Glück’s work, I was 
accepted into the course, but it was 
unexpectedly canceled; my third year, 
I was rejected. Only this semester did 
I finally enroll in the Iseman Seminar. 
My parents were overjoyed. I studied up 
on the umlaut and, thankfully, Professor 
Glück seemed to have forgotten 
about my mispronunciation of her 
name all those years ago.


The Louise Glück I met in 
the Iseman Seminar was consis­
tent with the one I’d read—just 
as unpretentious and honest, just 
as cautious of tropes and senti­
mentality. As in her texts, her 
directness, though sometimes 
ruthless, garnered complete 
trust. Yet despite the darkness 
of much of her poetry, she was 
also surprisingly jovial. I loved 
how comfortably she passed 
aesthetic judgements with no 
need for explanation. “This word is 
off,” she would say, or “this line should 
be replaced with another,” identifying 
problems the ear understands better than 
the mind and trusting us to find solutions. 
She hated unnecessary adjectives and 
loved specificity, especially geographic. In 
one of my poems, she suggested scrap­
ping almost every line except one 
which was merely a descrip­
tion of place: “through 
Cuneo, they came to 
Florence.” She vehe­
mently rejected bull­
shit, not only poetic 
but also interpersonal. 
Despite being a Nobel 
laureate, she was never 
condescending—joking frequently with us, 
never insisting on decorum. She seemed 
to be less an instructor than a peer, seated 
at the same round table as the rest of us.


I won’t pretend that we became 
fast friends in the five weeks of class we 
had together, as much as I would love 
to indulge such a fiction. We had class 
in person twice, and I never made it to 
her in-person office hours. One after­
noon, however, we discussed a couple 
poems of mine over the phone. I sat in 
my sunny dining room and typed madly 
in an attempt to write down her every 
word, her every criticism of every line, her 
divulgence that writing prose poetry was 
one of the most enthralling experiences of 
her life. When she made the off-handed 
disclosure that she liked my poems, my 
heart leaped. As the call was drawing 
to a close, there was a brief 
but seemingly endless 
silence in which I thought of asking 
something deeper, beyond the minu­
tiae of my lines—about the usefulness 
of rhyme, about the disarming poten­
tial of prosaic language, about writing 
from beyond a singular I, about decod­
ing Ashbery and understanding Oppen. 
There was so much I wanted to ask her 
that I hardly knew where to begin. 


There will be time for those ques­
tions later, I decided, so why keep her 
now? I said, “Thank you so much, see 
you soon,” and she said, “See you.”∎

Danya Blokh is a senior in 
Timothy Dwight College.


**Title: Tau Gallicum**
**Author: Asher C. Hurowitz**
**Page number(s): 54**

In the roaring undergirding
By the fine old wattled keep
I chanted fast my brains to muck 
And sunk forms into sleep
And for each blearing corner
Which when broken, yielded pain
I melted horns for every world
And stuck pins in my brain
—Asher C. Hurowitz

Ogham up the Boa Island Janus.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 55**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New Journal was founded in 1967, under the following mission statement: “This university has once again reached that stage in history when people are talking about the New Yale, presumably to be 
distinguished from the Old Yale, which in its own day was presumably considered new. Wishing to share in this modernity, we have chosen The New Journal as the name for 
our publication. Besides, things seemed slow around here.”

Today, The New Journal is published five times during the academic year by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. One thousand copies of each issue are distributed free to members 
of the Yale and New Haven community. The New Journal is printed by TCI Press, Seekonk, Massachusetts; bookkeeping and billing services are provided by Colman 
Bookkeeping of New Haven. Office Address: P.O. Box 3311, New Haven, CT 06515.

While this magazine is published by Yale College students, Yale University is not responsible for its contents. All contents Copyright ©2023 by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. 
All rights reserved. Reproduction either in whole or in part without written permission of the publisher and editors in chief is prohibited. Recycle Icon from Flaticon.com.


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS (SEPTEMBER) PUZZLE
PLAY MORE TNJ 
CROSSWORDS ON
OUR WEBSITE!
P
L
E
A
S
 
R
C
Y
 
T
H
I
 
M
G
Z
N
ACROSS
	
1	 “Meh” in modern lingo; *with 
5-across, album 12*
	
2	 PRO; *with 6-across, album 6*
	
5	 Darknesses; *see 1-across*
	
6	 It can come after a perm; *see 
2-across*
	 10	 Set in place
	 12	 Divas’ features
	 13	 One may be picky
	 15	 Hershey’s toffee bar
	 16	 Blackjack
	 17	 Amendment allowing women to vote; 
*with 20-down, then repeating its 
own first syllable, album 5*
	 22	 Eternally; *with 46-across, album 9*
	 26	 Edge
	 32	 Stuff
	 33	 Three-pronged creation of 
Cyclopes
	 36	 Munch
	 37	 Mendicant
	 38	 Spark plug, for one
	 39	 Partner; *album 7, within which the 
titular music video first showed the 
theme of this crossword*
	 40	 Hindu Demon-God of Eclipses
	 41	 Niche
	 43	 Governmental finance bro
	 46	 S’       ; *see 22-across*
	 48	 Debt; *album 4*
	 51	 Benjamins
	 53	 “Would you?”
	 55	 Temporal vasculitis, to docs
	 58	 More than half of the 8.045 billion 
people on this planet live there
	 60	 Soul; *with 82-across, album 8*
	 64	 Slip
	 65	 “The state-sanctioned or extralegal 
production and exploitation of 
group-differentiated vulnerability 
to premature death,” according to 
Ruth Wilson Gilmore
	 68	 Microtus pinetorum, familiary
	 71	 Melee
	 72	 “Mercy!”
	 73	 Cellular division
	 74	 Jimmy Elmer        , running back 
for the Chicago Cardinals, Dayton 
Triangles, Staten Island Stapletons, 
and Newark Tornadoes
	 75	 Area opposite the spine?
	 79	 Gift
	 80	        Ketchum, famous Pokémon 
trainer
	 81	 Without hesitation *album 2*
	 82	 Mythology; *see 60-across*
	 83	 Vocal trick; *with 99-across, album 
3*
	 85	 They can famously lift 10-50 times 
their body weight
	 87	 Primordial Greek God of the Sky
	 89	 Guitar manufacturer; *with 
107-across, Miss Americana herself, 
or album 1*
	 94	 Lū’au dance
	 97	 Catfish
	 99	 “ASAP”; *see 83-across*
	100	 Wee hour of the morning, say
	 101	 Plucking
	103	 Rose (up)
	104	 One hundreth of Georgian lari
	 105	 Allusion
	106	 Littoral US agents
	 107	 Quick; *see 89-across*
	108	 Hated
	109	 Lower Saxony’s geographic 
border between Halberstadt and 
Hildesheim
DOWN
	
2	 “Shoot”
	
3	 “when will u get here?”
	
4	 Heap
	
6	 Major train station of New Haven
	
7	 Bygone Russian leader
	
8	 Wave: Spanish
	
9	 Brooklyn’s b-ballers
	 10	 Irritated
	
11	 President Nixon’s legacy, which 
enforces the CSA
	 12	 Province in the southwest of Saudi 
Arabia, surrounded by Makkah, 
Al-Bahah, Jazan, Najran, and Riyadh
	 14	 Rotational meas
	 17	 Crux
	 18	 NARI, before two months ago
	 21	 Injury
	 22	 0.000001 joules
	 23	 Cheap wine
	 24	 Second drop-down category, 
usually
	 25	 Network of vessels or cells
	 27	 Pervasive injury area for NFL or NBA 
athletes
	 28	 Oarsmen’s favorite character?
	 29	 Federal domain extension
	 30	 Check-up by an outside M.D., often 
for litigious compensation
	 31	 NPO media organization where “All 
Things Considered” is hosted
	 33	 Word after zip, bow, knit, bolo, or 
ascot
	 34	 Standard
	 35	 It comes before and after a minuet
	 42	 Annular, pentameric amino-acid 
chain of hepatic origin (synthesized 
by the liver) and found in blood 
plasma after interleukin-6 secretion 
by macrophages and T cells...for 
short
	 44	 Son of Shem, and father to Uz, Hul, 
Gether, and Mash, from the Table of 
Nations in Genesis 10
	 45	 Handheld video game console 
produced after GBA
	 47	 See 62-down
	 48	 Native people located in what is now 
considered Virginia, comprised of 
various Algonquin-speking tirbes 
which merged in the 1680s
	 49	 Attempt
	 50	 Does and bucks
	 52	 Mouthful
	 54	 Atlantic Ocean, to North American 
poets; Pacific Ocean, to Australian, 
New Zealand, Chinese, or Japanese 
poets
	 55	 Harsh
	 56	 Dugout
	 57	 Capital of Ghana
	 59	 Object
	 60	 It may come before position or 
presentaiton
	 61	 Echinus
	 62	 What 47-down might stand for when 
directed from the head
	 63	 Recently renovated Biology Tower 
of Yale
	 66	 Robert Michael        , A.J. Soprano on 
the Sopranos 
	 67	 Sew closed the eyes, usually of a 
falcon or hawk
	 69	 Pest
	 70	 Clock setting for NYC
	 76	 Letter opener?
	 77	 TV channel for “Wheel of Fortune,” 
“Family Feud,” “Jeapardy,” “The 
Price is Right,” and many more
	 78	 Jewish Queen, married to King 
Ahaseurus
	 80	 Yearly interest costs, expressed as 
pcts.
	 83	 Swelled
	 84	 Mentally irregular
	 86	 Ultra
	 87	 Crumb
	 88	 Curse
	 89	 Kiddos
	 90	 From scratch
	 91	 Folkloric Himalayan beast
	 92	 Small, immature buds
	 93	 Leave out
	 95	 It’s “what happens when you’re busy 
making other plans,” per John Lennon
	 96	 They might be served at pubs
	 97	 The solar disk of Ancient Egypt
	 98	 Pristine
	 102	 100 square meters
	103	 Subset of the UN which facilitates 
cooperation on issues regarding 
atmoshperic science, climatology, 
hydrology, and geophysics
Superwoman 
House Tour: 
Blondie
Puzzle by Adam Winograd
© The New Journal
for S.
November 2023
55
TheNewJournal



