Publication date: September 28, 1969
Volume: three
Issue number: one

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editor: Jonathan Lear
- Executive Editor: Herman Hong
- Managing Editor: Lawrence Lasker
- Business Manager: Steve Thomas
- Art Director: Nicki Kalish
- Associate Editor: Paul Goldberger
- Advertising Manager: Robert Kirkman
- Copy Editors: Nancy Vickers, Craig Slutzker
- Contributing Editors: Susan Braudy, Mopsy Strange Kennedy, Michael Lerner, Leo Ribuffo, Walter Wagoner
- Staff: Richard Caples, Charles Draper, James Hinson, Stuart Klawans, Joanne Lawless, Manuel Perez, Barbara Rich, Scott Simpson


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Abortions at Yale - Jonathan Lear
- Notes on a New History - Robert Jay Lifton
- 1969: A Space Lunacy - David Quammen
- City Planning: Anatomy of a Fuck-up - Lawrence Lasker and James Rosenzweig


**Title: Don't count your chickens ...**
**Author:  (No Author Listed)**
**Page number(s): 1**

' . 
''i 
r 1 
\ 
• 
f 
. . 
tn ·oN J!al.la.i 
-vuo::> 'uauH -N 
OIV. 
aov~ ·s-n 
cu. Yll :rtl\8
Volume three, number one I September 28, 1969


**Title: Untitled**
**Page number(s): 2**

Some may come and some may go; we shall surely pass. 

So they finally did it. And just when we 
were desperately groveling to muster up 
our last pathetic hopes that they wouldn't. 
But humans aren't like cows; when they 
are sucked on and sucked on they will 
not continue to give milk to a stainless 
steel calf. We .finally shrivelled as our 
last morsel of dread, the milk of human 
existentialism, escaped the atmosphere 
with the Apollo 11 this summer, and as 
a sapped nation tried with such mastur-
batory anxiety to excite jtself, it didn't 
for a moment realize that it was trying 
to celebrate its own death, drowned in a 
sea of homogenized boredom. 

The current college generation was 
suckled on Kennedy idealism and when 
the tit was ripped away so suddenly we 
precociously reached the confident pu-
berty of New Left radicalism. We thought 
we lost our virginity at the Pentagon when 
the blood flowed. But when it flowed 
again at Chicago we realized just how 
sick our elders were. Ah, Realization, 
you elusive goddess, what good are you? 
Their disease is contagious, so we lie 
here, Robin Hoods all, about to sink into 
our .final coma, when we dimly perceive 
that the leach attached to our arm is not 
ridding us of harmful humors but draw-
ing out our last drops of life. 

Death in life, yes, that is the stuff of 
our desperation. We are being technolo-
gized right out of life and are working so 
hard not to notice it; we are working so 
hard not to realize that our children may 
never have the chance to taste existence; 
the ship is sinking and all we do is gather 
on the bow to sing Londonderry Air. 

This summer I experimented with being 
apolitical. After deciding that the world 
was so far out of its mind there was no 
saving it, I thought if one could only 
shape his life into a healthy and happy 
existence, that would be an incredible 
accomplishment in itself. 

But the cruel war is still raging. Not 
to join one side is to join another. Amidst 
today's mess there are two SDS groups, 
both claiming to be the true SDS and both 
more intent on destroying each other 
than in fighting the evils that brought 
them into existence. 

We students gave up on the war in Viet-
nam because after a few earnest attempts 
it bored us. Ah me, what a luxury. And 
now we have to· dig into our guts to tran-
scend the numbing of the mass media and 
realize that,indeed, the war goes on. 

When a national party, the Black: 
Panthers, is being destroyed by ·political 
repression, this infighting among student 
activists is just so much childish snobbery. 

There are a whole lot of people who 
can't simply shave their beards, cut their 
hair, and apply to business school. 

I strongly hope that no occupation of 
any university building takes place this 
year. I hope no violent disruption of the 
University occurs. Liberal rhetoric aside, 
for all its faults and abuses, the university 
does exist as one of society's few critics, 
and before we give up on reason we had 
better damn well realize that in this coun-
try stupidity has the monopoly on power. 

If I were a CIA agent I would try to en-
courage the student left to take over a 
building, for the facists of the right are 
chomping at the bit-and their game is in 
quite a different league. Besides, from an 
esthetic view, occupying a building, after 
it has been done so many times in so 
many places, could exist only as a parody 
of itself. 

So what is the purpose of all this self-
righteous rambling? Well, when a few of 
us, who were deadened by the creative 
bankruptcy of the extracurricular monol-
liths at Yale, got together a couple years 
ago to start a new magazine, we wanted 
to succeed as writers, artists and thinkers. 
We were drowned in success so quickly 
we didn't realize we had lost sight of land. 
We became an established power around 
Yale so quickly, that we forgot that the 
very reason we came into existence was 
to constantly criticize power. Many of us 
were so flattered at the invitation of na-
tional magazines to write for them, that 
we unknowingly sacrificed not a little 
integrity in the process. It was a painful 
lesson, still embarrassing, but we have 
learned. 

We are starting off this year with an 
elated sense of purpose: to lend some 
meaning to the term Yale community. 
There will be no one New Journal view-
we hope to exist as a vehicle for any mem-
ber of the community to express an in-
telligent idea. 

If you have something to say, please get 
in touch. This year we are looking for 
hard-hitting reportage, thoughtful reviews 
of the arts and politics-as well as fiction, 
poetry, top photography and cartooning. 

While the vast majority of the magazine is 
free-lance contribution, if you would like 
to join a staff of people who like to edit as 
well as write, contribute artistically to a 
magazine that has won more national 
awards for graphic design than any other 
in its class, or run the business of the most 
widely read and controversial publication 
at Yale, please call us at any time. (We 
never have a competition, for we feel it 
cramps our anarchic style.) 

The very existence of this magazine 
expresses a basic affirmation of the need 
for intelligent discussion among the mem-
bers of this community. Our criticism, 
though strong, stems from the belief that 
it is the most positive contribution we 
can make at this time. Last year we 
wanted to be known as writers and artists. 
This year please call us anything but that-
like flies to wanton boys, you can kill us 
for your sport, but please don't then go 
and pin our wings to a display board. 

We may well fail but in such an existen-
tially draining world, even the thought 
of failure is invigorating. 

Jonathan Lear


**Title: On Getting an Abortion at Yale**
**Author: Jonathan Lear**
**Page number(s): 3**

I was first hit with the whole idea of 
abortion a few years ago when I was 
exorcizing some last shreds of Kennedy 
idealism and bourgeois guilt as a VISTA 
worker in Harlem. One of the nights, 
which were usually dominated by lonely 
introspection and brooding about what 
the hell I was doing there, was interrupted 
by a teenage girl who lived a few floors 
below me in the tenement. Her hands 
worked over the little strands of hair and 
the creases in' her dress which concern 
only those who are upset about something 
and self-conscious. She related a long 
detailed story the gist of which dealt 
with a girl friend who had broken up 
with a boy some time ago and had pro-
ceeded to miss her next period and was 
now three days late for the second, and 
knew she was pregnant. So why tell me? 
Well, this girl was a secretary down-
town, a relatively high paying job, and 
wanted to know if I knew a reputable 
white doctor who she could be sure 
would perform a good operation. I 
didn't-and spent the rest of the night 
feeling that if I could have ever been of 
any use, I had just blown it. 

The next night a screaming ambulance 
pulled up in front of my tenement and I 
saw the girl I had talked to the night 
before wheeled out on a stretcher. The 
gossipy tidbit passed up and down the 
street. By the next afternoon, in the same 
breath as the numbers of the horses that 
had won the races, I heard that the girl's 
mother was in the middle of giving her an 
abortion with a knitting needle when she 
pierced some artery and the blood gushed. 
And gushed. Even in Harlem there are 
blood banks and antibiotics, so the girl 
lived, but she will never give birth to a 
child. So it goes. 

While no one has ever accused the sex 
laws of being sane, and while any con-
ception of the number of deaths and per-
manent damage done by illegal abortions 
would boggle and sicken the mind, abor-
tions are done at Yale-and they are 
done legally. 

Paula came to Yale last year, after 
graduating from a top women's college, 
and got a job with a professor to give 
herself time to think over whether she 
really wanted to go on to graduate school. 
She started dating a graduate student in 
that department and through some sort of 
birth control slip-up soon found herself 
quite pregnant. Her boyfriend felt be-
trayed and trapped and wouldn't have 
anything to do with her. 

There are times to be alone, but this 
was not one of them. Paula paced hyster-
ically up and down her room for a few 
days, afraid to speak to anyone, and 
finally flipped through the yellow pages 
and on sheer intuition selected a private 
gynecologist who she hoped would be 
sympathetic. He was. 

"After the tests showed that I was 
pregnant," said Paula, "he asked me what 
I intended to do. I was so embarrassed and 
upset about the whole thing and was kind 
of falling apart, so he said, 'Ok, how much 
money do you have,' and I didn't have 
any. That was going to be quite a hassle. 
He explained that there were a whole lot 
of different ways to have a good abortion, 
going to Japan or London or going to 
Maryland and saying you were a resident; 
apparently Maryland is very lenient. 
And then he said there was no way it 
could be done in Connecticut, unless 
we could get two psychiatrists to write 
that my mental health was so gravely 
threatened that there was a strong chance 
I would commit suicide. Apparently abor-
tions were being performed at Yale-New 
Haven Hospital, but you could tell that 
if I could afford any other legal way, it 
would have been much easier." 

There was no other way. Paula was 
near broke and couldn't afford long trips, 
so the gynecologist made appointments 
for her to see two psychiatrists known to 
be sympathetic, and to see a prominent 
obstetrician at Yale. 

"I had heard that if I was going to get 
my abortion I would have to make the 
shrinks think I was about to kill myself,'' 
said Paula. "But that was no problem. 
The minute I would walk into their office 
I would somehow become hysterical, and 
I wasn't putting it on. 
''The first shrink I saw was very nice 
and saw that I really was in deep depres-
sion, and he thought it was imperative 
that I have an abortion. The other shrink 
tried to argue and tell me that I could 
force the boy to marry me and told me I 
was being very self-destructive. I just 
sort of fell apart. I felt like a complete 
tramp; I don't know how he did it. He 
had the attitude: 'Well, I suppose I'll 
write the letter for you, but I'm really 
doing you a favor.' And that was probably 
the worst part of the whole business, 
because he made me feel that while I 
might get away with something legally 
I was doing something that was pro-
foundly wrong." 

The psychiatrists did write the letters, 
though, and Paula received a call a week 
later saying a hospital review board had 
gone over her case, and a legal abortion 
would be performed. Paula entered the 
hospital five days later, on a Friday, and 
was back in her apartment on Sunday-
pregnant no longer. 

"The doctor who performed the opera-
tion was so great, so fatherly,'' says Paula. 
"I remember once we were walking down 
the corridor and he put his arm around me 
and said, 'Just hold yourself together, that's 
all I ask. Just hold yourself together.' 
''The whole operation was a real 
nothing. I never felt any pain afterwards, 
except minor cramps the next day. But, 
wow, did I have mental hang ups about it. 
I went through a long period of thinking 
I was a murderess, which I don't think is 
common. It just seemed like the culmin-
ation of a bad dream, or almost like a 
punishment for being a bad girl. And it 
took me a whole year to get over that, 
to learn that the whole value system just 
wasn't functional, to accept the fact that 
I, too, was a sexual human being and had 
to learn to act sensibly, and that it was 
sheer stupidity that got me into this, but 
that there was no reason to feel guilty 
about it for the rest of my life." 

Paula paid forty dollars a shot for each 
psychiatrist, hospital costs amounted to 
three hundred dollars, and the doctor 
performing the operation didn't charge 
her, for he felt she couldn't afford it. 

The Yale Medical School, that co-
lossus to the south, is a series of low-flying 
formidable buildings, standing stolidly 
as a Great Wall, protecting the civilized 
world of the University and downtown 
shopping center from the barbarian 
hordes of the ghettoes. It is also one of 
the few Yale institutions that provide 
valuable services for the entire New 
Haven community. Abortions from 
good underground sources have long 
been handy for society's upper classes; 



**Title: Abortion in New Haven**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
and the insanity of another culture's 
sexual mores has zeroed in on the lower 
classes who cannot afford the one thousand 
dollars needed for a stint in London or 
Japan or the seven hundred dollars going 
rate for top illicit abortions in New York 
City. One of the more important aspects of 
the Yale-New Haven Hospital's healthier 
abortion attitude is that it provides that 
needed commodity to those who cannot 
afford more expensive routes. 

In Connecticut, legal abortion can be 
performed for three reasons: if the 
mother's physical or mental health is in 
grave danger, if the pregnancy is a result 
of rape or incest or if the baby will be 
born with serious congenital defects. This 
is no new or enlightened law; it has been 
on the books since 1861 and has rarely 
been used. One look at another commu-
nity shows why. In Hartford, for example, 
there are three major hospitals, Needless 
to say, Catholic-run St. Francis simply 
never performs legal abortions. Hartford 
Hospital, the largest and most modern, 
run by those same forces which guide the 
large insurance companies and banks, 
discourages them incredibly. The third 
hospital, Mt. Sinai, run by the Jewish 
community, is paranoid about being 
known as the abortion mill. 

So it takes a large institution which 
decides in its guts to be enlightened to 
perform legal abortions-and Yale-New 
Haven is just that. 

Dr. Clarence Davis, a paternal looking 
man with straight white hair shooting 
forward to the top of the forehead, out-
lining a friendly fleshy face, is an ob-
stetrician at the Yale-New Haven Hos-
pital and chairman of the Connecticut 
Abortion Legal Reform Association. 
"More and more people are beginning 
to simpJy demand their rights and eleven 
states have enacted more progressive 
legislation," said Davis, explaining why 
the number of legal abortions is rising 
across the country. "In this hospital, 
thank God, we have an intelligent, forth-
right attitude." 

Another prominent New Haven physi-
cian who, while not directly related to the 
Hospital, helps women to obtain safe abor-
tions said, "I personally feel that no 
woman should be forced to have a child 
she does not want-single, married or 
in any other category. I think a lot of 
physicians take this attitude now. My feel-
ing is that there is enough unhappiness 
and unrest in life, and that a child has a 
much better chance of living a normal 
healthy life, psychiatrically and other-
wise, if he's loved. If he is not loved his 
chances of becoming a useful citizen are 
very markedly decreased." 

With the plethora of birth-control in-
formation, pills and devices that abound, 
one would think there would be very few 
unwanted pregnancies, but that isn't true. 
"Single girls, particularly, get in a situa-
tion where they have intercourse without 
any type of contraception, thinking 
they're not at the time of the cycle where 
they're likely to get pregnant. Some of 
them are just plain stupid. Some of them 
get pregnant, I'm sure, to punish them-
selves, or their parents-and not infre-
quently their parents-not consciously of 
course, but psychologically. Then they get 
tremendous guilt complexes about all this 
and frequently do not tell their parents. 
"I also run across the situation where 
the girl is exposed to pregnancy, (has 
coitus or coitus is attempted) and she 
stops menstruating and is not pregnant. 
I've had two of these in the last three 
months, and it's totally psychological," 
said the private physician who wishes to 
remain anonymous. 

Reasons for unwanted pregnancy di-
vide along socio-economic lines. Girls 
who become pregnant to punish their 
parents are from middle and upper class 
families, while the few pregnancies result-
ing from ignorance of birth control pro-
cedure are in the lower class. In general, 
abortion is a luxury of the.affiuent, like 
the Holy Writs of Assistance, with women 
of lesser means often dying from hemorr-
haging or infection due to illicit abor-
tions done by untrained people with total 
ignorance of aseptic techniques. Yale-
New Haven Hospital has led a morally 
constipated state in providing expert legal 
abortions for women of all economic 
backgrounds. 

Three operating procedures are used 
by the hospital. If the pregnancy is less 
than ten weeks, a normal scraping of the 
uterine wall is performed. After ten weeks 
of pregnancy, hypertonic saline solution 
is injected into the uterus, inducing labor. 
In women of middle age, when requested 
and deemed all right, a sterilization is also 
performed, and the uterus is simply 
removed. 

While the legal abortion is the safest 
and least traumatic means of terminating 
pregnancy, it is still acknowleged to be 
one hell of a psychologically painful 
event- and in many cases the men 
take an active part in comforting the 
patient. 

"Frequently the man is there, whether 
the couple is married or not," he said. 
"The difficult thing is when the relation-
ship is not a very serious one, where 
marriage isn't seriously contemplated. 
The minute a man learns that his partner 
is pregnant, he's long gone. And it's a 
terribly hard thing psychologically for the 
girl, for she is almost always deeply emo-
tionally involved, or she wouldn't be 
having intercourse. There are promiscuous 
girls, sure, but they aren't the ones that get 
pregnant. It's the girl who's in love and 
starry-eyed that gets herself in trouble. 
"And there are some girls who get 
pregnant to try and catch a man. That's 
the worst way in the world. When a girl 
gets pregnant to solidify a relationship, 
the relationship is doomed," said the 
physician. 

At least legal means of abortions do 
exist. That any anti-abortion laws at all 
still exist as part of a criminal code of law, 
is a comment on society which some 
might call male-chauvinistic; others 
insane. ~ 
• 
t l 
•• 
,, • 
) 



**Title: Notes on a New History**
**Author: Robert Jay Lifton**
**Page number(s): 5-6**


Notes on a New History 
by Robert Jay Lifton 
Is history a collection of facts? Or is it 
a sense of perspective? In the article that 
follows, Robert Jay Lifton, Professor of 
Psychiatry at Yale Medical School, opts 
strongly for the latter. He offers several 
arguments to support the theory that it is 
a different perspective on history-a 
"New History"-that is at the base of 
today's student movement. 

Robert Jay Lifton is the author of 
Death in Life: Survivors of Hiroshima, 
winner of the National Book Award. 

What is a New History? And why do 
the young seek one? I raise these 
questions to introduce the idea of a parti-
cular New History-Ours-and to suggest 
certain ways in which we can begin to 
understand it. 

. Let us define a New History as a radical 
and widely-shared regeneration of the 
forms of human culture-biological, ex-
periential, institutional, technological, 
esthetic and interpretive. The newness of 
these cultural forms derives not from their 
spontaneous generation, but from exten-
sions and transformations of what already 
exists; that which is most genuinely revo-
lutionary makes psychological use of the 
past for its plunge into the future. Of 
special importance is the reassertion of the 
symbolic sense of immortality which man 
requires as he struggles to perpetuate him-
self biologically and communally, through 
his works, in his tie to nature, and through 
transcendent forms of psychic experience. 

But the shapers of a New History-
political revolutionaries, revolutionary 
thinkers, extreme holocausts, and tech-
nological breakthrough-also express the 
death of the Old. This has been true of the 
American, French, Russian and Chinese 
revolutions; the ideas of Copernicus, 
Darwin and Freud; the mutilations of the 
two world wars; and, most pertinent to 
us, the technological revolution which 
produced Auschwitz and Hiroshima, as 
well as the post-modern automated and 
electronic society. Each of these has been 
associated with "the end of an era," with 
the devitalization, or symbolic death, of 
forms and images defining the world view 
and life-patterns of large numbers of 
people over long periods of time. 

Great events and new ideas can cause, 
reflect or symbolize historical shifts. The 
combination of Nazi genocide and the 
American atomic bombings of two J apa-
nese cities terminated man's sense of 
limits concerning his self-destructive 
potential, and thereby inaugurated an 
era in which he is devoid of assurance 
of living on eternally-as a species. It bas 
taken almost twenty-five years for formu-
lations of the significance of these events 
to begin to emerge-formulations which 
cannot be separated from the tecbnologi-
~al developments of this same quarter-
century, or from the increasing sense of a 
universal world-society that has accom-
panied them. 

The New History, then, is built upon 
the ultimate paradox of two competing 
and closely related images: that of the 
extinction of history by technology and 
that of man's evolving awareness of him-
self as a single species. It may be more 
correct to speak of just one image, extra-
ordinarily divided. And whatever the dif-
ficulties in evaluating the human conse-
quences of this image, psychologists and 
historians who ignore it cease to relate 
themselves to contemporary experience. 

The celebrated 1962 "Port Huron 
Statement" of the Students for a Demo-
cratic Society, which is still something of 
a manifesto for the American New Left, 
contains the assertion: "Our work is 
guided by the sense that we may be the 
last generation in the experiment with 
living." I think we should take this serious~ 
ly, just as many of us took seriously Albert 
Camus' declaration that, in contrast with 
every generation's tendency to see itself as 
"charged with remaking the world," his 
own had a task "perhaps even greater, for 
it consists in keeping the world from des-
troying itself. In seeking new beginnings 
men are now haunted by an image of the 
end of everything. 

Do the young feel this most strongly? 
They themselves often say just the op-
posite. When I discuss Hiroshima with 
students, they are likely to point to a dis-
parity between my (and Camus') specific 
concern about nuclear weapons and the 
feeling of their generation that these wea-
pons are just another among the horrors 
of the world bequeathed to them. Our two 
"histories" contrast significantly: my 
(over forty) generation's shocked "sur-
vival" of Hirsoshima and continuing 
need to differentiate the pre-Hiroshima 
world we knew from the world of nuclear 
weapons in which we now live; their 
(under twenty-five) generation's experi-
ence of growing up in a world in which 
nuclear weapons have always been part 
of the landscape. This gradual adapta-
tion, as opposed to original shock, is of 
great importance. Man is psychologically 
flexible enough to come to terms with al-
most anything, so long as it is presented 
to him as an ordained elem~nt of his 
environment. 

But such adaptation is achieved at a 
price, and achieved only partially at that. 
The inner knowledge on the part of the 
young that their world has always been 
capable of exterminating itself creates an 
undercurrent of anxiety against which 
they must constantly defend themselves-
anxiety related not so much to death itself 
as to a fundamental terror of premature 
death and unfulfilled life, and to high un-
certainty about all forms of human con-
tinuity. Their frequent insistence that 
nuclear weapons are "nothing special" is 
their form of emotional desensitization, 
or what I call psychic numbing (as op-
posed to other forms called forth by their 
elders). But the young must do a great 
deal of continuous psychological work to 
maintain their nuclear "cool." And this in 
turn may make them unusually responsive 
to possibilities of breaking out of such 
numbing and of altering the world which 
has imposed it upon them. 

All perceptions of threatening historical 
developments must occur through what 
Ernst Cassirer called the '.'symbolic net" 
-that special area of psychic-creation 
characteristic of man, the only creature 
who "instead of dealing with . .. things 
themselves ... constantly conserves ... 
with himself." In these internal (and often 
unconscious) dialogues, anxieties about 
technological annihilation merge with 
various perceptions of more symbolic 
forms of death. That is, Hiroshima and 
Auschwitz become inwardly associated 
with the worldwide sense of profound 
historical dislocation: with the disintegra-
tion of formerly vital and nourishing 
symbols resolving around family, religion, 
principles of community and the life cycle 
in general; and with the inability of the 
massive and impersonal post-modem in-
stitutions (of government, education and 
finance) to replace psychologically that 
which has been lost. They become asso-
ciated also ·with the confusions of the 
knowledge-revolution, and the unpre-
cedented dissemination of half-knowledge 
through media whose psychological im-
pact has barely begun to be discerned. 

There is a very real sense in which the 
world itself has become a "total environ-
ment-it closed psychic chamber with 
continuous reverberations, bouncing 
about chaotically and dangerously. The 
symbolic death perceived then is this 
combination of formlessness and totality, 
of the inadequacy of existing forms and 
imprisonment within them. 

The young are struck by the fact that 
most of mankind simply goes about its 
business as if these extreme dislocations 
did not exist-as if there were no such 
thing as ultimate technological violence 
or existence rendered absurd. The war in 
Vietnam did not create these murderous 
incongruities, but it does epitomize them 
and it consumes the American youth in 
them. No wonder then that in their "con-
versations with themselves" so many of 
the young seem to be asking: How can we 
bring the world-and ourselves- back 
to life? 

2 

Students ot revolution and rebellion 
have recognized the close relationship of 
both to death symbolism and to visions of 
transcending death by achieving an 
eternal historical imprint. And Albert 
Camus describes insurrection, in its 
exalted and tragic forms, as "a prolonged 
protest against death, a violent accusation 
against the universal death, a violent ac-
cusation against the universal death 
penalty," and as "the desire for immortal-
ity and for clarity." But Camus also 
stressed the rebel's "appeal to the essence 
of being," his quest "not ... for life, but 
for reasons for living." And this brings us 
to an aU-important question concerning 
mental participation in revolution: what 
is the place of ideology, and of images and 
ideas, and of the self in relationship to all 
three? 

. Men have always pursued immortaliz-
ing visions. Most of the revolutionary 
ideologies of the past two centuries have 
provided elaborate blueprints for indi-
vidual and collective immortality-
specifications of ultimate cause and ulti-
mate effect, theological in tone and 
scientific in claim. When present-day revo-
lutionaries reject these Cartesian litanies 
they are taking seriously some of the im-
portant psychological and historical in-
sights of the last few decades. For they 
are rejecting an oppressive ideological 
totalism-with its demand for control of 
all communication within a milieu, its 
imposed guilt and cult of purity and con-
fession, its loading of the language and its 
principles of doctrine over person. This 
rejection, at its best, represents a quest by 
the young for a new kind of revolution-
one perhaps no less enduring in historical 
impact, but devoid of the claim to om-
niscience and of the catastrophic chain of 
human manipulations stemming from that 
claim. 

Possibly the anti-ideological stance of 
today's young will tum out to be a trans-
itory phenomenon, a version of the 
euphoric denial of dogma that so fre-
quently appears during the early moments 
of revolution, only to be overcome by 
absolutist doctrine and suffocating or-
ganization in the name of revolutionary 
discipline. Yet there is reason for be-
lieving that the present antipathy to ideol-
ogy is something more, that it is an expres-
sion of a powerful contemporary style. 
The shift we are witnessing from fixed, all-
encompassing forms of ideology to more 
fluid ideological fragments approaches 
Camus' inspiring vision of continuously 
de-congealing rebellion, as opposed to 
dogmatically congealed, ali-or-none revo-
lution. I would also see it as an expression 
of contemporary, or what I call "protean," 
psychological style-post-Freudian and 
post-modem, characterized by intermin-
able exploration and flux, and by relatively 
easy shifts in identification and belief. 

Protean man as rebel then seeks to remain 
open while in the midst of rebellion, 
to the extraordinarily rich, confusing, 
liberating and threatening array of con-
temporary historical possibilities. 

His specific talent for fluidity greatly 
enhances his tactical leverage. For in-
stance, Daniel Cohn-Bendit. the leader of 
the French student uprisings of May, 
1968, in an interesting dialogue with Jean-
Paul Sartre, insisted that the classical 
Marxist-Leninist principle of the om-
niscient revolutionary vanguard (the 
working class, as represented by the Com-
munist Party) be replaced with "a much 
simpler and more honorable one: the 
theory of an active minority acting, you 
might say, as a permanent ferment. push-
ing forward without trying to control 
events." Cohn-Bendit went on to charac-
terize this process as "uncontrollable 
spontaniety." He rejected as "the wrong 
\ 
6 I The New 1 ournall September 28, 1969 
solution" an alternate approach (urged 
upon him by many among the Old Left) 
of formulating an attainable program 
and drawing up realizable demands. In 
the same spirit are the warnings of Tom 
Hayden, a key figure in the American 
New Left, to his S.O.S. colleagues and 
followers, against "fixed leaders;" and his 
insistence upon "participatory demo-
cracy." So widespread has this approach 
been that the American New Left has 
been characterized as more a process than 
a program. 

I would suggest that the general princi-
ple of "uncontrollable spontaniety" rep-
resents a meeting-ground between tactic 
and deeper psychological inclination. The 
underlying inclination consists precisely 
of the protean style of multiple identifica-
tio..:'ls, shifting beliefs and constant search 
for new combinations. Whatever its pit-
falls, this style of revolutionary behavior 
is an attempt on the part of the young to 
mobilize the fluidity of the twentieth 
century as a weapon against what they 
perceive to be two kinds of stagnation: the 
old, unresponsive institutions (univers-
ities, governments, families) and newly-
emerging but fixed technological visions 
(people "programmed" by computers in 
a "technetronic society"). A central fea-
ture of this attempt is the stress upon the 
communal spirit and the creation of actual 
new communities. And here too we ob-
serve an alternation between conserva-
tive images of stable and intimate group 
ties and images of transforming society 
itself in order to make such ties more 
possible than is now the case. 

The process, and the underlying pyscho-
logical tendencies, moreover, seem to be 
universal. Observing the nearly simultane-
ous uprisings in America, France, Japan, 
Brazil, Germany, Italy, Mexico, South 
Africa, Czechoslovakia, Chile, Yugoslavia 
and Spain, one can view them all as parts 
of a large single tendency, occurring with-
in a single world-wide human and techni-
cal system. Here the planet's instant com-
munications network is of enormous im-
portance, as is the process of psychological 
contagion. One need not deny the great 
differences in, say, Czech students rebel-
ling against Stalinism, Spanish students 
against Falangism, and American, French 
and Italian students against the Vietnam 
War, the consumer society, and academic 
injustices, to recognize the striking congru-
ence in these rebellions. In every case the 
young seek active involvement in the insti-
tutional decisions governing their lives, 
new alternatives to consuming and being 
consumed, and liberated styles of individu-
al and community existence. Unspecific 
and ephemeral as these goals may seem, 
they are clearly expressions of a quest for 
historical rebirth, for re-attachment to the 
Great Chain of Being, for re-assert ion of 
symbolic immortality. 

The French example is again revealing 
(thought not unique), especially in its 
extraordinary flowering of graffiti. Here 
one must take note of the prominence of 
the genre-of the informal slogan-on-the-
wall virtually replacing formal revolution-
ary doctrine, no less than the content. But 
one is struck by the stress of many of the 
slogans, sometimes to the point of inten-
tional absurdity, upon enlarging the indi-
vidual life space, on saying yes to more 
and no to less. Characteristic were "Think 
of your desires as realities," "Prohibiting 
is forbidden" (a play on words in which 
the ubiquitous "Defense d'afficher" is 
converted to "Defense d'interdire"), and, 
of course, the two most famous: "lmag-
ination in power" and "Imagination is 
revolution." Sartre was referring to the 
overall spirit of these graffiti, but perhaps 
most to the revolutionary ~cts themselves, 
when he commented (in the same dia-
logue mentioned before) : "I would like 
to describe what you have done as ex-
tending the field of possibilities." 

Precisely such "extending of the fields 
of possibilities" is at the heart of the 
world-wide youth rebellion-for hippies 
no less than political radicals-and at the 
heart of the protean insistence upon con-
tinuous psychic re-creation of the self. 
Around this image of unlimited extension 
and perpetual re-creation, as projected 
into a dimly imagined future, the young 
seek to create a new mode of revolution-
ary immortality. 

3 

Of enormous importance for these re-
bellions is another basic component of 
the protean style, the spirit of mockery. 
While young rebels are by no means im-
mune from the most pedantic and humor-
less discourse, they come alive to others 
and themselves only when giving way to 
-or seizing upon-their very strong in-
clination toward mockery. The mocking 
political rebel merges with the hippie and 
with a variety of exponents of pop culture 
. to "put on"-that is mislead or deceive by 
ineans of some form of mockery or ab-
surdity-his uncomprehending cohorts, 
his elders, or anyone in authority. In 
dress, hair and general social and sexual 
style, the mocking rebel is not only 
"extending the field of possibilities," but 
making telling commentary-teasing, 
ironic, contemptuous--on the absurd 
folkways of "the others." The mockery 
can be gentle and even loving, or it can be 
bitter and provocative in the extreme. 

4 

There has been much discussion about 
young rebels' selection of the university 
as a primary target for recent upheavals. 
Many distinguished commentators (David 
Riesman, Christopher Lasch, Steven 
Spender, Herbert Marcuse, Lionel Trilling 
and Noam Chomsky, among others) have 
cautioned students about the dangers of 
confusing the vulnerable centers of learn-
ing they attack (and for periods of time 
"bring down,") with society at large. 
Spender put the matter eloquently when 
he said that, "however much the university 
needs a revolution, and the society needs 
a revolution, it would be disastrous ... 
not to keep the two revolutions apart." He 
went on to point out, as have others also, 
that the university is "an arsenal from 
which [student-rebels] can draw the arms 
from which they can change society"; and 
that, "To say, 'I won't have a university 
until society has a revolution' is as though 
Karl Marx were to say 'I won't go to the 
reading room of the British Museum until 
it has a revolution.' " Yet wise as these 
cautionary thoughts undoubtedly are, one 
also has to consider the ways in which the 
university's special symbolic significance 
makes it all too logical (if unfortunate) a 
target for would-be revolutionaries. 

What makes universities unique is the 
extent to which, within them, the prevail-
ing concepts of a society are at the same 
time presented, imposed, examined and 
criticized. The university is indeed a train-
ing ground for available occupational slots 
in society, as young rebels are quick to 
point out; it can at its worst approach a 
technical instrument in the hands of the 
military-industrial complex. But it can also 
be precisely the opposite, a training ground 
for und~rmining social institutions, as 
Spender suggests, and as the young rebels 
themselves attest by the extent to which 
they are campus products. In most cases 
the university is a great many things in 
between. It provides for students four 
years of crucial personal transition-a rite 
de passage from relatively unformed ado-
lescence to a relatively formed adulthood. 
And the fact that many are likely to move 
through continuing protean explorations 
during the post-university years renders 
especially important whatever initial adult 
"formation" the university makes possible. 
For these reasons, and because both groups 
are there, the university is the logical place 
for the rebeflious young to confront their 
ostensible mentors, and thereby both de-
fine themselves and make a statement 
about society at large. 

The statement they make bas to do not 
only with social inequities and outmoded 
institutions, but with the general historical 
dislocations of everyone. And in this sense 
the target of the young is not so much the 
university, or the older generation, as the 
continuing commitment of both to the dis-
credited past. But the university provides 
unique opportunities for the young to re-
verse the father-son mentorship-and, 
moreover, to do so in action. The reversal 
may be confused and temporary, with stu-
dent and teacher moving back and forth 
between leadership and followership, but 
in the process the young can assert their 
advanced position in the shaping of what is 
to come. Though the "generation gap" 
seems at times to be increasing beyond re-
demption, there is also a sense in which 
the gap narrows as the young engage their 
elders as they never have before, and the 
university becomes a place of unprece-
dented intellectual and emotional contact 
between the generations. And what hap-
pens at one university can be repeated, 
with many variations, at any other uni-
versity throughout the world. Universities 
everywhere share a central position in the 
susceptibility to new currents, and tend 
also to present students with very real 
grievances; the global communications 
network provides not only the necessary 
contagion but instant instruction in the art 
of university rebellion. Specific actions and 
reactions then give way to a general his-
torical process. 

We learn more about the university in 
the midst of militant social disorder by 
turning to the greatest of recent national 
upheavals, the Chinese Cultural Revolu-
tion. More than is generally realized, uni-
versities were the focus of much that took 
place during that extraordinary movement. 
Not only were they a major source of Red 
Guard activists but within them .a series of 
public denunciations of senior professors 
and administrators by students and young 
faculty members preceded-and in a sense 
set off-the Cultural Revolution as a whole. 
These denunciations originated at Peking 
University, which was the scene of many 
such upheavals both before the Cornmu-
nist victory in China and during the sub-
sequent campaigns of "thought reform" 
that have become a trademark of the 
Chinese Communist regime. The Cultural 
Revolution was the most extreme of these 
campaigns and contrasted with more re-
cent student rebellions elsewhere in one 
very important respect: the young were 
called forth by their elders (Mao and the 
Maoists) to fight the latter's old revolution-
ary battles, and to combat the newly 
threatening impurities associated with re-
visionism. But from the beginning there 
was probably a considerable amount of 
self-assertion and spontaniety among Red 
Guard leaders and followers. And over the 
course of the Cultural Revolution, over-
zealous Red Guard groups became more 
and more difficult for anyone to control, 
•) 
., 



**Title: The New History**
**Author: [Not specified]**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
r 
71 The New Journal! September 28, 1969 
especially as they split into contending factions~ 
each claiming to be the most authen-
tically revolutionary and Maoist. And dur-
ing the summer of 1968, reports of jousts, 
fights and pitched battles among them also 
taking place at Peking University, revealed 
how within two years that institution had 
shifted in its function from provider of the 
spark of the Cultural Revolution tore-
ceptacle for its ashes. Significantly, mem-
bers of the Red Guard were then demoted 
to the status of "intellectuals" whore-
quired the tutelage of workers and espe-
cially peasants (and the control of the 
Army). But Peking and other universities 
continued to preoccupy the regime as 
places in need of fundamental reform. 
Indeed the remolding of educational 
institutions bas been greatly stressed over 
the course of the Cultural Revolution. 
And the extraordinary step of closing all 
schools throughout China for more than a 
year was both a means of mobilizing stu-
dents for militant political struggles be-
yond the campuses and revamping (how-
ever chaotically) the nation's educational 
process. I have elsewhere described the 
Cultural Revolution as a quest for sym-
bolic immortality, a means of eternalizing 
Mao's revolutionary works in the face of 
his anticipated biological death and the 
feared "death of the revolution." The uni-
versity was perceived throughout as both 
an arena of fearful dangers (revisionist 
ideas), and as what might be called an im-
mortalizing agent (for the promulgation 
at the highest cultural levels of the most 
complete Maoist thought). 


In its own fashion, the Cultural Revolu-
tion was a response to the New History, 
which in China's case includes not only 
Russian and Eastern European revision-
ism but early manifestations of protean-
ism. Chinese universities, however, have 
been forced to flee from contemporary 
confusions into what is most simp I~ and 
pure in that country's Old Revolutionary 
History; this is in contrast to the more 
open-ended plunge into a threatening but 
more open-ended future being taken by 
universities throughout the rest of the 
world. Yet these issues are far from de-
cided. Universities everywhere, China in-
cluded, are likely to experience powerful 
pressures from the young for "restructur-
ing." While this hardly guarantees equiva-
lent restructuring of national govern-
ments, it may well be a prelude to funda-
mental changes in almost every aspect of 
human experience. 


One can hardly speak of definitive con-
clusions about something just beginning. 
Nor would I claim a position of omnisci-
ent detachment from the events of the 
New History-! have in no way been 
immune from the combinations of feelings 
about them I have described for my gen-
eration of Left-intellectuals, and have 
here and there contributed to dialogues 
on them. But having earlier in this essay 
affirmed the significance of the New 
History, I wish now to suggest some of its 
pitfalls and then, finally, present-day po-
tentialities for avoiding them. 


From the standpoint of the young, 
these pitfalls are related to what is best 
called romantic totalism. I refer to a post-
Cartesian absolutism, to a new quest for 
old feelings. Its controlling image, at 
whatever level of consciousness, is that 
of replacing history with experience. 
This is, to a considerable extent, the 
romanticism of the "youth movement." 
I have heard a number of thoughtful 
European-born intellectuals tell, with 
some anxiety, bow the tone and atmo-
sphere now emanating from young Amer-
ican rebels is reminiscent of that of the 
German youth movement of the late 
Weimar Republic (and the Hitler Youth 
into which it was so readily converted). 
What they find common to both is a cult 
of feeling and a disdain for restraint and 
reason. While. I would emphasize the 
difference between the two groups much 
more than any similarities, there is a cur-
rent in contemporary youth movements 
that is more Nietzschean than Marxist-
Leninist. It consists of a·stress upon what 
I call experiential transcendence, upon 
the cultivation of states of feeling so in-
tense and so absorbing that time and death 
cease to exist. (Drugs are of great im-
portance here but only as part of a general 
quest.) The pattern becomes totalistic 
when it begins to tamper with history to 
the extent of victimizing opponents in 
order to reinforce these feelings; a danger 
signal is the absolute denial of the princi-
ple of historical continuity. 


The replacement of history with experi-
ence-with totally liberated feeling-is by 
no means a new idea and has long found 
expression in classical forms of mysticism 
and ecstasy. But it has reappeared with 
considerable force in the present-day 
drug revolution, and in the writings of a 
number of articulate contemporary 
spokesmen such as Norman 0. Brown. 
This general focus upon the transcendent 
psychic experience would seem to be re-
lated to impairments in other modes of 
symbolic immortality. That is, the modern 
decline of theological concepts of im-
mortality on the one hand and the threat 
posed by present weapons (nuclear, bac-
terial and chemical) to man's biological 
and cultural continuity on the other, have 
radically undermined symbolism of death 
and transcendence. In the absence of in-
tact images of biological and cultural im-
mortality, man's anxiety about both his 
death and his manner of life is profoundly 
intensified. One response to thiS anxiety, 
and simultaneous quest for new forms, is-
the unique contemporary blending of 
experiential transcendence with social and 
political revolution. 


We have already noted that political 
revolution has its own transformationist 
myth of making all things new. When this 
combines with the experiential myth (of 
eliminating time and death) two extreme 
positions can result. One of these is the 
condemnation and negation of an entire 
historical tradition: the attempt by some 
of the young to sever totally their relation-
ship to the West by means of an impossibly 
absolute identity replacement, whether the 
new identity is that of the Oriental mystic 
or that of the Asian or African victim of 
colonialism or slavery. And a second 
consequence of this dismissal of history 
can be the emergence of a single criterion 
of judgment: what feels revolutionary is 
good, what does not feel revolutionary is 
counterrevolutionary. 


A related equally romantic pitfall 
might be called "generational totalism." 
The problem is not so much the slogan, 
"Don't trust anyone over thirty," as the 
unconscious assumption that can be be-
hind it: that "youth power" knows no 
limits because youth equals immortality. 
To be sure, it is part of being young to 
believe that one will never die, that such 
things only happen to other people, old 
people. But this conviction ordinarily 
lives side-by-side with a realization-at 
first preconscious, but over the years in-
creasingly a matter of awareness-that life 
is, after all, finite. And a more symbolic 
sense of immortality, through works and 
connections outlasting one's individual 
life span, takes hold and permits one to 
depend a little less upon the fantasy that 
one will live forever. 


Under extreme historical conditions, 
however, certain groups-in this case, 
youth groups-feel the need to cling to the 
omnipotence provided by a more literal 
image of immortality, which they in tum 
contrast with the death-tainted lines of 
others. When this happens we encounter a 
version of the victimizing process: the 
young "victimize" the old (or older) by 
equating age with individual or historical 
"exhaustion" and death; and the "victim," 
under duress, may indeed feel himself to 
be "as if dead," and collude in his victim-
ization. Conversely, the older generation 
has its need to victimize, sometimes (but 
not always) in the form of counterattack, 
and may feel compelled to view every 
innovative action of the young as destruc-
tive or "deadly." Indeed the larger signi-
ficance and greatest potential danger of 
what we call the "generation gap" reside 
in these questions of broken historical 
connection and impaired sense of im-
mortality. 


The recent slogan of French students, 
"The young make love, the old make 
obscene gestures," is patronizing rather 
than totalistic, and its mocking blend of 
truth and absurdity permits a chuckle all 
around. But when the same students refer 
to older critics as "people who do not 
exist," or when young American radicals 
label everyone and everything either 
"relevant" ("revolutionary") or "irrele-
vant" ("counterrevolutionary") on the 
basis of whether or not the person, idea 
or event is consistent or inconsistent with 
their own point of view-then we are deal-
ing with something more potentially mal-
ignant, with the drawing of sharp lines 
between people and nonpeople. 


Perhaps the ultimate expression of 
generational totalism was that of an early 
group of Russian revolutionaries who ad-
vocated the suppression and even annihi-
lation of everyone over the age of twenty-
five because they were felt to be too con-
taminated with the Old History of that 
time to be able to absorb the correct prin-
ciples of the New. I have heard no recent 
political suggestions of this kind; but there 
have certainly been indications (aside 
from the Hollywood version of youth 
suppressing age in the film "Wild in the 
Streets") that young radicals at times 
have felt a similar impulse; and that some 
of their antagonists in the older genera-
tions have felt a related urge to eliminate 
or incarcerate everyone under twenty-five. 


I have stressed the promiscuous use of 
the word "relevant." Beyond its dictionary 
meanings, its Latin origin, relevare, to 
raise up, is suggestive of its current mean-
ing. What is considered relevant is that 
which "raises up" a particular version of 
the New History-whether that of the 
young rebels or of the slightly older tech-
nocrats (such as Zbigniew Brzezinski) 
who are also fond of the word. Corre-
spondingly, everything else must be "put 
down"-not only criticized and defeated 
but denied existence. 


Such existential negation is of course 
an old story: one need only recall 
Trotsky's famous reference to the "dust-
bin of history." But the young, paradoxi-
cally, call it forth in relation to the very 
images and fragments we spoke of before 
as protean alternatives to totalism. An 
example is the all-encompassing image of 
the Establishment: taken over from Bri-
tish rebels, it has come to mean everything 
from the American (or Russian, or just 
about any other) poltical and bureaucratic 
leadership, to American businessmen 
(from influencial tycoons to salaried 
executives to storekeepers), to university 
administrators (whether reactionary or 
liberal presidents or simple organization 
men), and even to many of the student 
and youth leaders who are themselves 
very much at odds with people in these 
other categories. And just as Establish-
ment becomes a devil-image, so do other 
terms-such as (in different ways) "con-
frontation" and "youth" -become god-
images. It is true that these god-images 
and devil-images can illuminate many 
situations, as did such analogous Old-
Left expressions as "the proletarian stand-
point," "the exploiting classes," and 
"bourgeois remnants," these last three 
in association with a more structured 
ideology. What is at issue, however, is 
the degree to which a particular image is 
given a transcendent status and is then 
uncritically applied to the most complex 
situations in a way that makes it the start 
and finish of any ethical judgment or 
conceptual analysis. 


This image-focused totalism enters 
into the ultimate romanticization, that of 
death and immortality. While the sense 
of immortality-of unending historical 
continuity-is central to ordinary psycho-
logical experience, romantic totalism 
tends to confuse death with immortality, 
and even to equate them. Here onere-
calls Robespierre's famous dictum, 
"Death is the beginning of immortality," 
which Hannah Arendt has called "the 
briefest and most grandiose definition . . . 
(of) the specifically modem emphasis on 
politics, evidenced in the revolutions." 
Robespierre's phrase still resonates for us, 
partly because it captures an elusive truth 
about individual death as a rite de passage 
for the community, a transition between 
a man's biological life and the continuing 
life of his works. But within the phrase 
there also lurks the romantic temptation to 
court death in the service of immortality-
to view dying, and in some cases even 
killing, as the only true avenues to 
immortality. 


The great majority of today's radical 
young embrace no such imagery-they 
are, in fact, intent upon exploring the full-
est possibilities of life. But some can at 
times be prone to a glorification of life-
and-death gestures and to aU-or-none 
"revolutionary tactics," even in petty dis-
putes hardly worthy of these cosmic 
images. In such situations their sense of 
mockery, and especially self-mockery, 
deserts them. For these and the related 
sense of absurdity can, at least at their 
most creative, deflate claims to omni-
science and provide a contemporary equiv-
alent to the classical mode of tragedy. Like 
tragedy, mockery conveys man's sense 
of limitation before death and before 
the natural universe, but it does so now in 
a world divested of more "straight" ways 
to cope with mortality. Those young rebels 
who reject this dimension and insist upon 
unwavering militant rectitude move to-
ward romanticized death and the more 
destructive quests for immortality. 


It is the very openness of the young 
that may help them to avoid definitive 
commitments to self-defeating patterns. 
They need not be bound by the excesses 
of either Cartesian rationalism or the con-
temporary cult of experience which feeds 
romantic totalism. Indeed, though the 
latter is a response to and ostensibly a 
replacement for the former, there is a 
sense in which both are one-dimensional 
mirror-images of each other. Today's 
young have available for their formula-
tions of self and world the great twentieth-
century insights which liberate man from 
the senseless exclusions of the opposition 
between emphasis on "experience" and on 
the "rational." I refer to the principles of 
symbolic thought, as expressed in the work 
of such people as Cassirer and Langer, 
and of Frued and Erikson. One can never 
know the exact effect of great insights 
upon the historical process, but it is quite 
possible that, with the decline of the total 
ideologies of the Old History, ideas as 
such will become more important than 
ever in the shaping of the New. Having 
available an unprecedented variety of 
ideas and images, the young are likely to 
attempt more than did previous genera-
tions and perhaps make more mistakes, 
but also to show greater capacity to extri-
cate themselves from a particular course 
and revise tactics, beliefs and styles-all 
in the service of contributing to embryonic 
social forms. 


These forms are likely to be highly fluid, 
but need not by any means consist exclu-
sively of shape-shifting. Rather, they can 
come to combine flux with elements of 
connectedness and consistency, and to do 
so in new ways and with new kinds of 
equilibria. Any New History worthy of 
that name not only pits itself against, but 
draws actively upon, the Old. Only 
through such continuity can the young 
bring a measure of sure-footedness to their 
continuous movement. And to draw upon 
the Old History means to look both ways: 
to deepen the collective awareness of 
Auschwitz and Hiroshima and what they 
signify, and at the same time to carve out 
a future that remains open rather than 
bound by absolute assumptions about a 
"technetronic society" or by equally ab-
solute polarities of "revolution" and 
"counterrevolution." 


It is possible (though hardly guaran-
teed) that man's two most desperately 
pressing problems-nuclear weapons and 
world population-may contribute to the 
overcoming of total ism and psychism. I 
have written elsewhere of the pattern of 
"nuclearism," the deification of nuclear 
weapons and a false dependency upon 
them for the attainment of political and 
social goals. This "nuclearism" tends to 
go hand-in-hand with a specific form of 
psych ism, the calling forth of various 
psychological and political constructs in 
order to deny the technological destruc-
tiveness of these weapons. Nuclear illu-
sions have been rampant in both America 
and China. There are impressive parallels 
between certain Pentagon nuclear policies 
(grotesquely expressed in the John Foster 
Dulles doctrine of "massive retaliation") 
on the one hand, and the joyous Chinese 
embrace of nuclear weapons as further 
confirmation of the Maoist view of world 
revolution on the other. Similarly, Penta-
gon (and early Herman Kahn) projec-
tions of the ease of recovery from nuclear 
attack-of what I have called the nuclear 
afterlife--bear some resemblance to the 
Maoist view of the weapons as not only 
"paper tigers" but even as a potential 
source of a more beautiful socialist order 
rising from the nuclear ashes. Now I 
think that young rebels, with their fre-
quent combination of ftexibility and in-
clusiveness, are capable of understanding 
these matters. They have yet to confront 
the issues fully, but have begun to show 
inclinations toward denouncing nuclear-
ism and nuclear psych ism as they occur 


not only in this country but among the 
other great powers. Insights about nuclear 
weapons are of the utmost importance to 
the younger generation-for preventing 
nuclear war and for creating social forms 
which take into account man's radically 
changed relationship to his world because 
of tlie potentially terminal revolution as-
sociated with these weapons. 


To the problem of world population, 
young rebels are capable of bringing a 
pragmatism which recognizes both the 
imperative of technical programs on be-
half of control and the bankruptcy of an 
exclusively technical approach. Looking 
once more at China, we find that a coun-
try with one of the world's greatest popu-
lation problems has approached the matter 
of control ambivalently and insufficiently 
-mainly because of a Maoist form of 
.psychism which insisted that there could 
never be too many workers in a truly 
socialist-revolutionary state. Yet this posi-
tion has been modified, and there is much 
to suggest that the inevitable Chinese con-
frontation with the actualities of popula-
tion has in itself been a factor in under-
mining more general (and widely 
disastrous) patterns of psychism. Young 
radicals elsewhere are capable of the same 
lessons-about population, about Maoist 
contradictions and post-Maoist possibil-
ities, and about psych ism per se. 


Are these not formidable problems for 
youngsters somewhere between their late 
teens and mid-twenties? They are indeed. 
As the young approach the ultimate dilem-
mas that so baffle their elders, they seem to 
be poised between the ignorance of in-
experience and the wisdom of a direct re-
lationship to the New History. Similarly, 
in terms of the life cycle, they bring both 
the dangers of zealous youthful self-sur-
render to forms they do not understand 
and the invigorating energy of those just 
discovering both self and history-energy 
so desperately needed for an historical 
foray into the unknown. 


As for the "older generation"-tbose 
middle-aged Left-intellectuals-the prob-
lem is a little different. For them (us) one 
of the great struggles is to retain (or 
achieve) protean openness to the possi-
bilities latent in the New History and to 
respond to that noble slogan of the 
F rench students, "Imagination in power." 
But at the same time this generation does 
well to be its age, to call upon the experi-
ence specific to the lives of those who com-
prise it. It must tread the tenuous path of 
neither feeding upon its formative sons 
nor rejecting their capacity for innovative 
historical imagination. This is much more 
difficult than it may seem, because it re-
quires that those now in their forties and 
fifties come to terms with the extremely 
painful history they have known, neither 
to deny that history nor to be blindly 
bound by it. However shunted aside by 
the young they may feel, there is special 
need for their own more seasoned, if now 
historically vulnerable, imaginations. 


For both young and old intellectuals-
together with society at large-are 
threatened by a violent reaction to the 
New History, by a restorationist impulse 
often centered in the lower middle classes 
but not confined to any class or country. 
This impulse includes an urge to eliminate 
troublesome young rebels along with 
their liberal-radical "fathers," and tore-
turn to a mythical past in which all was 
harmonious and no such disturbers of the 
historical peace existed. For what is too 
often forgotten by the educated of all 
ages, preoccupied as they are with their 
own historical dislocations, is the extent 
to which such dislocations in others pro-
duce the very opposite kind of ideological 
inclination-in this case a compensatory, 
strongly anti-protean embrace of the 
simple purities of the Old History-per-
sonal rectitude, law and order, rampant 
militarism, and narrow rationalism. 


If man is to be successful in creating the 
New History that he must create in order 
to have any history at all, then the forma-
tive fathers and sons I have spoken of 
must pool their resources and succeed to-
gether. Should this not happen, the failure 
too will be shared-whether in the form of 
stagnation and suffering or of shared 
annihilation. Like most other things in 
our world, the issue remains open. There is 
nothing absolute or inevitable about the 
New History-except perhaps the need 
to bring it into being. 9


**Title: 1969: a space lunacy**
**Author: dn ld quammen**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
1969: a space lunacy 
by dn ld quammen 
/fo:' 
The American Moon landing was a pretty big fat 
deal. Everyone knew that. If you hadn't known that, 
someone would have told you. Ute paid Norman 
Mailer millions to write a book about what he 
thought of it. The New York Times Magazine ran an 
article by Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. making fun of the idea 
and Implying that Isaac Asimov was the only space 
scientist around with any brains or integrity. Follow-
ing It in the magazine was an article by Isaac 
Asimov, describing the landing as the most significant 
scientific enterprise of all time. Department stores 
in Japan sold plastic models of the ship which the 
three Americans would fly to the Moon. The largest 
newspaper in Yugoslavia offered $800 as a prize to 
anyone who could predict th& words which the first 
American to walk on the Moon would say. Esquire 
had the same Idea and printed what 52 famous 
people, from Vladimir Nabokov to Hubert Humphrey, 
thought the first American Moon-walker-talker 
should say. In Colombia the government asked tele-
vision set makers to install T.V.'s in the main squares 
of all Colombian towns and in the windows of most 
stores so that the people could follow the progress 
of the !light. Even the Russians knew perfectly well 
about 1t. They weren't saying anything though. They 
stayed off to themselves, sulking in their vodka. 
It was a very big fat deal indeed, let me tell you. 
But it wasn't just the Americans who had made it 
that to be snotty. Everyone had. H. G. Wells had, and 
he was English. Jules Verne had, and he was French. 
The Moon-goers were to blast off on Wedr.esday 
from Cape Kennedy, the usual place. By Sunday 
evening everything was ready, including the televi-
sion sets in Colombia. Thousands of people had 
already gat.hered in the take-off area, Launching Pad 
39-A, to watt. 

On Tuesday the New York Times printed large pic-
tures of the three men on the front page and reported 
that at a news conference they had said they were 
'Confident of Success.' Or, at least, they were still 
willing to go. 'In Last Appearance Before Trip, They 
Disclaim Fear,' the Times said. 

On Wednesday the Times showed a picture of 
l~ndon Johnson and his wife shaking hands with an 
A1r Force general. The headline stretching across 
~r.ee of the Times' columns (and the Times is very 
ftnlcky about the Integrity of those columns) said: 
THREE APOLLO ASTRONAUTS POISED TO SET OUT TODAY 
ON MOON LANDING MISSION just in case anyone hadn't 
already heard. 

That was Sunday, Tuesday and Wednesday. But 
!he funny thing was that on Monday, when I walked 
mto Parmelee and Howe's Drug and Hardware Store 
David Quammen, a senior In Calhoun is a scholar of 
the house working on a screenplay of William 
Faulkner's Absalom, Absalom. 
in Wilmington, Vermont, the Brattleboro Reformer, 
which does have a rather lax column policy, looked 
up at me from the wire stand at the end of the cos-
metics aisle and, in a three inch high black-lettered 
headline straight across the page said this: 
REDS LAUNCH MOON-SHIP. 

It meant the Russians. It meant that they had 
sneaked off to their own launch pad, in the midst of 
all the international whoop-de-doo, and had gotten 
a ship of their own on Its way to the Moon. Our Moon. 
I pulled the Brattleboro Reformer o ut of the rack and 
read the article. 

It was an unmanned Soviet space vehicle called 
Luna 15 with a lunar destination, Tass, the official 
Soviet news agency, had announced. That was all 
they had announced. It was believed by some Ameri-
can space officials that the vehicle may have been 
on Its way to a soft-landing on lunar turf, the article 
said. It was further believed, this time by a man 
named Sir Bernard lovell of London, who is ap-
parently the closest thing to a "space official" that 
England can claim, that "the Soviet spacecraft 
would attempt to land on the Moon and bring back 
samples of Its surface." Before the Americans, get It? 
Sir Bernard said there was "every indication" that 
that was what the Reds' ship was up to. 

It meant, the Brattleboro Reformer thought, 
and said so, that the Russians were involved in a 
LAST DITCH EFFORT TO STEAL SPACE SHOW. 

In other words, those Russians were down, but 
they weren't out. 

It meant to Sir Bernard that there was no inter-
national cooperation in space, a fact which he found 
" sad and regrettable." Sir Bernard also said that if 
international collaboration didn't develop, say, in 
the next ten years, "a very serious situation might 
arise, both scientifically and politically." 

I left the Parmelee and Howe Drug and Hardware 
Store with a smug and ironic impression that the 
Russians were doing a very silly thing. And that 
this incident, coupled with a long and conspicous 
record of past silliness, demonstrated to my satis-
faction, if not all the world's, that, in the case of the 
Soviet Union, we were dealing with what was simply 
a downright silly nation. 
I meant more so than most 
On Wednesday morning at 9:28a.m. the countdown 
was at 4-minutes-19-seconds-and-counting. That was 
the point at which I turned on the radio, while I was 
waiting for my Cheerios to get soggy. At T-mlnus-45-
seconds-and-counting I dropped a slice of cinnamon 
bread into the toaster and pushed it down, with the 
setting on light. I listened to the countdown with a 
blase but glassy-eyed recognizance of the frontiers 
of my responsibility. At T-minus-zero-and-Biastoff 
my cinnamon toast sprung up. I laughed at the co-
incidence, and three eager, clear-eyed Americans 
headed for the Moon. 

On Thursday afternoon it was hot and humid, so I 
sat on the sleeping porch, listened to intermittent 
distant rumblings of thunder and read Wednesday's 
New York Times. It's the one with the three-column 
headline that wasn't bad news and the pictu re of 
President Johnson and even Mrs. Johnson. I looked 
carefully all over the front page but couldn't find 
anything about the Soviet-launched attempt to steal 
the space show. The Times wasn't having any of it. 
They weren't letting themselves be a party to the 
theft. The Times is a serious and plenty smart opera-
tion and not prone to concerning themselves with 
silly and faddish vagaries such as the Soviet Union's 
rockets to the Moon. So I read the articles on 
Apollo 11. 

The big day found me eating Sunday brunch with 
Walter Cronkite. The ship had already come to 
ground when I tuned in, at a place called Landing 
Site Two, in the Sea of Tranquility, a plain near the 
crater Moltke, which is on the right side of the Moon 
as seen from here, Cronkite was explaining. Only 
Armstrong and Aldrin were in the funny little vehicle 
that had been taken, like a small motorboat, to the 
landing spot. Collins had been left behind up above, 
going around in circles by himself. 

But the two American Moon-walkers hadn't 
stepped out. They hadn't started without me. They 


--- Page 11 ---

r were sitting there, in their two custom comfort-
cushioned body chairs, on the Moon, looking out 
the window. Trading a lot of very jargony mformation 
with the man at M.C. Throwing in a poetic flourish 
occasionally. 

And then one of them held the portable live color 
T.V. camera up to the window, pointed it out, and 
let me, all of us, look. 

At the surface of the Moon. 

Ooooooooooh. 

It looked like a great plain of green cheese that 
"" 
had turned grey and crumbly from age and exposure 
and had been hit by a lot of meteors and asteroids. 
It looked about like the fold-out photographs I had 
seen in Life, only closer. And the colors weren't 
quite as clear. 

· 
"Get on with the show," I said out loud after having 
been shown the surface of the Moon for a straight 
twenty minutes. I had finished the last syrupy waffle 
of my brunch, had listened patiently to a crackling 
radio catechatation full of in-talk about radar sitings 
and rnagnometer readings between Module and 
Control and I was getting bored. "Is this all?" I de-
manded, turning my back to carry away the tray 
table. At this apogee, crucial for me (and, I was sure, 
for probably a good third or so of that 150-million-
American audience that was tuned in at that point), 
the entire Apollo program was slumping to a perigee 
where it seemed just about the right time to go out 
and visit the john. 

C'mon! I hounded Moon-ward. Let's get on with 
the real show. The walking-around stuff. The poking-
our-noses-around-behind craters stuff. The first big 
~ 
fat man-talking-Moon-words-back-to-little-old-earth-
ears stuff. Get out of that space ship, you phonies. 
Shuffle, shuffle. Stomp stomp stomp. Hoot hoot. 

At KLH, 
we believe there is a special kind of delight 
to be gained from using a minimum of apparatus 
to fill a room with music. 

I<:: I.. ... H . 
david dean smith 
Corner of Elm and York 

And then down the gang plank, television camera 
now blazing gloriously away in living lunar olive-grey 
color, go the two clear-eyed courageous, athletic, 
American family boys and good father type~, onto 
the Sea of Tranquility, the never-touched-by-foot- . 
before surface gravel of the long-espied lunar turf, 
where the tungsten-wrapped magnet-foot of Mr. 
Neil Armstrong, Moon-walker, is trod into contact 
with same and releases radio-fast earthward to two 
billion listening people-ears the first lunar sound of 
crunch. 

1 drank off the last grainy drops of that coffee and 
set the cup down quickly with a clank on the floor, 
pushed it right away from me, out of the way, moving 
face-forward elbows on knees. 

"The words!" I reminded. " The man-first Moon-
words," I practically had to holler to them. "Speech!" 
... Son-of-a-bitch. Those crazy, loony-
-What's that, Neil? Where ... 

And a long, sweeping lunarscape pan right, 
whoops, object, stop, focus in, two objects, zoom in, 
focus in, clear shot of Commander Neil, some forty 
yards off across the Sea, shiny spacesuit posing 
small beside large object, further zoom and focus, 
large module object of a parked-not-far-off Luna 15, 
C.C.C.P. and unmistakable old familiar hammer-and-
sickle trademark clearly lettered on its side. That's 
what we saw-at least I did-when the show really 
got started. And not for long either, boy. That and 
one other thing: a sign, billboard-like, opened 
automatic from the side of Luna, presented. outward 
to easy all-eye view on a ten-foot square iron panel 
in yellow day-glo paint, in English, professionally 
lettered, you bet: AMERICAN IMPERIALIST COLONIALIST 
AGGRANDIZEMENT AND AGGRESSION CONTINUES 
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD AND UNIVERSE. 

Hoooooboy. Fade to black. Back to M.C. work 
room, I mean, what's going on? Smile workers, don't 
look so shook, keep calm, for the fol~s at home. I 
don't know, what? No. Walter doesn't know either. 
Huh? Cut to commercial. 

"Hey, M.C., what do we do?" 
" ... Dismantle it ... " 
" ... What? Listen, put the computer on, will you. 
I don't ... " 
" ... Proceed, over ... This is official, verified, 
Neil, over ... " 
" ... But isn't that against international law? ... " 
" ... Ordinarily, yes. But they did it first. They 
profaned the Moon. Proceed, over ... " 

It seemed, at least to me, to be as Sir Bernard 
Lovell had predicted, "a very serious situation, both 
scientifically and politically." 

"Rrrroger M.C." 

So at 1:19 p.m., Sunday afternoon, I turned off the 
Moon show, three hours earlier than I had expected, 
and went out to lie in the sun. Because at 1 :10 p.m. 
(E.D.T.), July 20, with Buz the ex-cameraman standing 
at his right shoulder holding a box of space wrenches, 
Mr. Commander Neil (Jack) Armstrong gave a stiff 
counter-clockwise turn to the third bolt from the 
left on the bottom of the first unmanned Soviet 
space-sign, and Luna 15, rather ferociously, ex-
ceeding deviously, blew itself, him, Buz, and most 
of that corner of the Sea of Tranquility, up, in my face. 

A thirty-minute short subject tape came on all the 
stations then, which Mission Control had quickly 
dug out, about the adventures of American space-
men, their accomplishments and their unbroken line 
of spiritual tradition back to Daniel Boone. It was 
narrated by John Glenn. Songs by the Kingston Trio. 
I had seen it before. 


**Title: City Planning: Anatomy of a Fuck-up**
**Author: Lawrence Lasker and James Rosenzweig**
**Page number(s): 12**

121 The New Journal! September 28, 1969 
City Planning: 
Anatomy 
of a 
Fuck-up 
by Lawrence Lasker 
and James Rosenzweig 
Tunnard: a most important experience 
Last spring, for probably the first time in 
Yale's history, a group of students and 
teachers began to succeed in working 
together to determine the course of their 
learning, their teaching and their lives. 
They failed. What destroyed them was 
their inability to deal with the Yale ad-
ministration, a bureaucracy so blinded by 
the trivia of style and reputation that it 
cannot see a meaning in life beyond the 
perpetuation of its own dreary existence. 

Last spring's effort by a united city 
planning department to enroll a signi-
ficant number of black students into its 
program was effectively discouraged late 
in May when the administration of King-
man Brewster fired the department's 
chairman, fired the art and architecture 
school's assistant dean, promised to fire 
two more department faculty members, 
threatened students with the denial of 
degrees, and, in a word, castrated the en-
tire department. What follows is a rather 
depressing account of what happens when 
you do not play by the rules of the Yale 
Game. Nothing, however, is revealed. 

When Christopher Tunnard returned 
from his sabbatical last December to as-
sume the chairmanship of the city plan-
ning Department, he found that things 
were quite different from when be had 
left. In the space of a year, the city plan-
ners-and even, it seemed, the promise of 
planning cities as a life's work-had ac-
quired a new purpose. The liberal eyes of 
the liberal press were turning their focus 
upon the human destruction done in 
American cities, and they saw the city as 
the nation's most pressing internal prob-
lem. The press began to look for help to 
city planners, the bulk of whom bad con-
centrated their efforts upon such atrocities 
as Ed Logue's "renewal" of New Raven's 
Oak Street ghetto into a shopping magnet 
for suburbanites. (In fact Maurice Rode-
val, who started city planning at Yale, had 
a hand in initiating this affair.) Enlight-
ened planners, who despaired of ever 
getting a chance to put their blueprints 
to the test, suddenly had a reason to ex-
pect that money and opportunity would 
come their way for the massive job of 
rebuilding and humanizing the inner-city 
world. 

This new hope naturally infected the 
forty-three student planners at Yale, and 
throughout the fall they met in groups to 
determine what they would do about it. 
Many of the department's required 
courses were outmoded and dull, with a 
tendency to belabor worn-out theories. 

Weaver: the middle man is no man at all 
"We'd had enough of this theoretical 
bull shit," says second-year student Jim 
Hunter. "What we wanted was greater 
exposure to the actual methods and tools 
of professional planning." At the same 
time, members of the faculty (five full-
time professors and many New Haven 
planners who taught part-time) were de-
ciding that they, too, wanted a change; 
and by November teachers and students 
were meeting together informally, sharing 
their hopes and talking about how the de-
partment could be revitalized, and won-
dering what the new chairman would 
think. 

And at this point Christopher Tunnard 
returned to Yale from Australia, and took 
charge from Acting Chairman Harry 
Wexler, an associate professor. Tunnard 
is an internationally respected author and 
planning historian. He was delighted as he 
listened to the planner's ideas at a depart-
ment-wide meeting called by the students. 
Although Tunnard and Wexler both had 
reservations, it was decided at that meet-
ing in mid-December to try a new experi-
ment: to have the students and teachers 
together run the department. There would 
be no rules, and the meetings would not 
have a formal structure or "official" 
power. At this meeting the planners re-
dedicated themselves to the Black Work-
shop, through which the handful of black 
students at the School of Art and Archi-
tecture could offer their skills to New 
R aven's black community 

After Christmas vacation, the members 
of the standing committee, as it was 
called then, started to meet regularly. 
As a first step, they began to consider 
questions of the budget, admissions of 
new students and the curriculum; and they 
were confident that Howard Weaver, the 
new dean of the School of Art and 
Architecture (of which city planning is 
one department) would help them when 
he could. Tunnard met with Dean Weaver 
and told him that a student-faculty com-
mittee was operating with regard to ad-
missions in the department. Weaver said 
that this was unusual, and they should 
recognize this. He was, however, content 
to accept the existence of the group as long 
as responsibility for decisions rested in the 
"normal channels"-those being the chair-
man, Tunnard, and the admissions chair-
man, Ralph Tucker, himself a member of 
the new group. Weaver added that student 
involvement might even be a good thing, 
and agreed with Tunnard also that the 
priorities for admissions in the coming 



**DeLuca: fell with the Forum**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
r 
13 I The New J ournall September 28, 1969 
DeLuca: fell with the Forum 
spring should be changed: admissions 
should be based on the applicant's quali-
fications alone, and more black students 
should be recruited and admitted to all 
the departments of the school. 

Here, the edges begin to curl. While the 
city planning department was taking a 
careful look at itself, it apparently had 
company; many of the planners began to 
worry that Yale was preparing to disman-
• tie the department. They were able to 
cite several reasons why this was more 
than simple paranoia. 

For one thing, there was uncertainty 
about how the department would be fit 
into the developing Social Science Center 
Yale's chief response to the crisis of the ' 
~ity. It was obvious that the University 
mtended to commit huge amounts of 
'f 
money to the Center, and was already in-
volved with plans for a monstrous new 
~uildin~ to house it. Secondly, and more 
tmmedtately, Associate Provost for Urban 
Studies and Programs Joel Fleishman was 
having amazing success in raising more 
than a million dollars in foundation grants 
for newly-created Yale urban programs. 
Not a penny went to the city planning 
department. ("Urban studies takes re-
sources out of the city and puts them into 
-
books," one student planner angrily com-
plained.) 

It was not hard for the planners to 
guess ~hy they were being slighted; any-
one w1th a passing interest in Yale ad-
ministrators' opinions on such matters 
had heard that they were displeased with 
the department's lack of national renown 
and, with the exception of Tunnard, big 
names to attract the attention of the press. 
If, as President Brewster told the alumni 
last year, "education has become good 
business," it might follow that bad press 
is bad education. 

Good or bad, the city planning de-
par~ment might reasonably have hoped 
for mcreased funds to make it better. But 
" 
when Dean Weaver met with the group 
~ to deny rumors that the department was 
on the way out, he found it hard to be con-
vincing and at the same time inform them 
tha! there would, yes, be slight cuts in 
thetr budget for hiring faculty members 
the next year. 

.. The man who really got us started on 
the whole thing was Pat Goeters," says 
second-year student Howard Brown. 
~oeters, a professional architect and ad-
JUnct professor in the city planning depart-
ment. "had for years been telling his 
Brewster: no sentimental egalitarian he 
students to take a good look at their own 
world before they were so eager to rush 
out and tamper with other peoples' lives. 
But before last year the students were 
mainly slide-rule engineers intent upon 
building bridges," Brown continued. 

"Suddenly, last year •. there were enough 
people who agreed on a few basic things. 
You can't believe how exciting it was 
sitting around that table. There was so 
much energy generated there-we just 
knew we were starting to do something, 
human beings together asking questions 
about how to take control of their lives. 
And we weren't talking about 'radical' 
ideas, except in the sense that they were 
democratic." 

One of the first things the department 
agreed on was to make an effort to enroll 
":'ore black and Spanish-speaking people, 
smce the work to be done in the ghettoes 
would have to involve largely non-white 
planners. With the expressed encourage-
ment of Dean Weaver, both the city plan-
ning department and the architecture de-
partment (their heads were going through 
similar changes) worked out an arrange-
ment with the Black Workshop, whose job 
it became to recruit black students from all 
over the country for admission into the two 
departments. (It has been a tradition at the 
art and architecture school that each de-
partment handles its own admissions and 
financial aid; this year, though, Dean 
Weaver was charged with arranging aid 
for the admitted students.) 

Since recruitment activities would take 
more time than usual, the city planners 
decided to divide admissions into two 
parts-normal acceptance letters to 
eighteen students, mostly white, by April 
I; subsequent letters to black applicants 
by May 1. 

On March 31, Dean Weaver informed 
Tunnard that university Provost Charles 
Taylor had just imposed a limit of 14 in-
coming students upon the department, 
based upon an overall enrollment of 
35 students. This reduction in numbers 
f~om previous years perplexed everyone, 
smce recent entering classes had numbered 
more than 20, and the current enrollment 
of the department ~as 43. The dean djd 
not give any reasons for this decision, ex-
cept to relay that fact that the department 
was currently "overenrolled." 

"It was like something out of Catch 22 " 
said one student. "Members of the forum' 
(which the group had by then named 
itself) would ask Weaver where be got 
the number thirty-five, and he wouJd say 
- ·--"".: 
**Professional Season Workshop Series Y&le Cabaret Special Events Studio Theatre Projects**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16**

Subscribe Now!
BOX OFFICE NOW OPEN 222 YORK STREET, 562-9953
SUBSCRIPTIONS 562-5000


