Publication date: February 2010
Volume: 42
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editor-in-Chief: Ben Lasman
- Managing Editors: Haley Cohen, Kate Selker
- Copy Editor: Elsie Kenyon
- Senior Editor: Laura Zax
- Editorial Staff: Max Ehrenfreund, Sarah Mich, Jacque Feldman, Ari Berkowitz, Nick Geiser
- Production Staff: Timothy Shriver, Samantha Ellner, Helena Malchione, Abigail Owen-Pontez
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Roger Cohn, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Torn Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel KtJrtz-Phelan, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Emily Bazelon, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Daphne Chu, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Alben J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O'Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Roben Randolph, R. Anthony Reese, Rollin Riggs, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Anhur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulstnan, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Jessica Winter, Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- POINTS OF DEPARTURE - 
- SNAPSHOTS - 
- STANDARDS - 
- MINOR INFRACTION - Bob Jeffery
- FALSEMEMORY - Sarah Mich
- THE IMPOSTOR'S GUIDE TO YALE - Ari Berkowitz and jacque Feldman
- PAINT & SWITCH - Haley Cohen
- PROFILE - Jess Cole
- PERSONAL ESSAY - jake Conway
- ENDNOTE - Laura Zax


**Title: POINTS OF DEPARTURE**
**Author:** 
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: SNAPSHOTS**
**Page number(s): 12**


**Title: STANDARDS**
**Page number(s): 18**


**Title: MINOR INFRACTION**
**Author: Bob Jeffery**


**Title: FALSEMEMORY**
**Author: Sarah Mich**
**Page number(s): 10**


**Title: THE IMPOSTOR'S GUIDE TO YALE**
**Author: Ari Berkowitz and jacque Feldman**


**Title: PAINT & SWITCH**
**Author: Haley Cohen**
**Page number(s): 20**


**Title: PROFILE**
**Author: Jess Cole**
**Page number(s): 15-17**


**Title: PERSONAL ESSAY**
**Author: jake Conway**
**Page number(s): 28**


**Title: ENDNOTE**
**Author: Laura Zax**
**Page number(s): 31**



**BIG MEN ON CAMPUS**
**Author: Helen Knight**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
.. 
BIG MEN ON CAMPUS 
Their numbers are small: emails to the 
administrative offices of the . residential 
colleges revealed only five names spread 
across two colleges, Davenport and Say-
brook. Few students in the general Yale 
College student body know of their ex-
istence. Unlike masters, deans, or profes-
sors, they do not look or behave so differ-
ently from undergraduates. Instead, they 
live among us, as us 
:Jmost. Though 
they live, eat, shower and sleep amidst un-
dergraduates, they are no longer in college 
themselves. Yes, several graduate students, 
still suspended in a dormitory lifestyle af-
ter many of their peers have moved on to 
independence and adulthood, live among 
us in the residential colleges. 

Dov Fox, YLS '10, however, seems per-
fectly content with his on-campus residen-. 
tial situation in Davenport. "I eat most, 
if not all, of my meals here," he explains, 
referring to the advisory sessions he sched-
ules with students in the college's dining 
hall to discuss summer options, career 
plans, how to develop research projects or 
get to know professors. Even if he has no 
official plans to meet with students, he sits 
with them anyway. ''I'm kind of annoying. 
I sit down and introduce myself I try to be 
a presence, so that students feel comfort-
able coming to me." 

While an undergraduate at Harvard, 
Fox interacted with the network of gradu-
ate students who live in the Upperclass 
Houses, Harvard's equivalent of Yale's 
colleges, who advise undergraduates in a 
range of different fields and academic dis-
4 
ciplines. Entering Yale Law School, Fox 
formative part of their lives. I think it's neat 
wanted to relate with undergraduates in a 
to be a part of that." Townsend interacts 
similar capacity. He. contacted. the masters 
with his undergrad neighbors not only at 
and deans of the colleges expressing his 
the dinner table, but also on the basketball 
background and interest. Though Dav-
court. Talking about his involvement on 
enport's Master Richard Schottenfeld and 
the Saybrook intramural basketball team, 
Dean Craig Harwood had never hosted 
Kenneth mentioned, "The other week, we 
graduate students in their dorms before, 
were playing Calhoun, and some guy on 
they were interested in Fox entering the 
the other team was giving me a hard time, 
college's community. Now completing his 
saying, 'Why is there some thirty-year-old 
last year of law school, Fox has been a resi-
fellow on your team?"' 

Kenneth is, in fact, nearly thirty. But 
d~nt of Davenport for the entirety of his 
graduate school career. 

. 
Rachel Schon, a graduate affiliate in Dav-
Fox, who takes his advising duties as 
enport, is the same age as members of this 
an affiliate very seriously: No doubt, he 
year's graduating class. A native Londoner, 
is a serious guy: a former. Rhodes scholar, 
Schon completed her undergraduate de-
Fox is also the author of a book on the 
gree at Cambridge last year, where college 
admissions process and residential life at 
is three instead of four years long. Now a 
Harvard, and has published articles on 
student at Yale Divinity Sch,ool, she lives 
bioethics and law in multiple academic 
in Davenport as a Clare Mdlon Fellow, a 
journals. As intimidating as his resume 
program that allows for two Yale College 
may be, however, Fox is mild-mannered, 
graduates live and study at ClareCollege, 
soft-spoken and endearingly enthusiastic 
Cambridge, and two Clare students come 
about Davenport and his fellow residents. 

" 
so much," he says. "It's been the most seri-
ous thing I've done in New Haven for the playing 
Calhoun, 
a•td 
past three years." 

He spread the word. A classmate of 
some 
on the oth 
Fox's from Oxford, Kenneth Townsend, tea111 Was giving me a hard 
·d 
·al 
11 
h. £ · d' 
' 
ere 
res1 ent1 
co ege at 
1s nen s sugges-
tion. ''As soon as I decided .to come here, SOme thtrty-year-old fel ... 
Dov said I should email the masters of the 
low on vour 
~'" 
colleges about my interest," Townsend ex-
J 
plained, his native Mississippi accent not 
fully erased by a decade pursuing his stud-
ies in the UK and New England. 

Though Townsend has a stand-alone 
single room, he shares a bathroom with 
Saybrook undergrads. "Last Friday, Feb 
Club had parties on the first through 
fourth floors of Entryway C." Townsend 
lives on the fifth floor. "It's times like these 
that I feel like, I'm 28, I should move on," 
he says. "But the benefits definitely out:-
weigh the costs." Townsend receives free 
room and board in exchange for coordi-
nating the Mellon Forum dinners for the 
college and managing the scheduling for 
the Underbrook, Saybrook's theater facil-
ity. While room and board are no doubt 
important, Kenneth enjoys college life for 
more than its convenience and financial 
advantages. "Undergraduates are at a very . 
Schon's living experience 
could not be 
more different from· that of Fox and 
Townsend's. Her age, and the fact that un-
like the other two, she is not an affiliate 
of the college with official responsibilities, 
naturally changes her interaction with 
Davenport students. "I feel more like an 
undergraduate. The senior class is really 
friendly; they've invited me to parties," 
says Schon, who is dating a senior in Ezra 
Stiles. "I've made the conscious decision 
to see Davenport College and Slifka as my 
social community." As both a college resi-
dent and a graduate student, Rachel has 
received her fair share of blank stares. ''I'm 
constantly having to explain myself," she 
told me. 

It makes sense 
the concept of a grad 
affiliate may be' hard to grasp for the Yale 
senior looking eagerly towards his di-


--- Page 5 ---

I 
ploma and a life beyond the white walls 
of a crowded dormitory. But for Fox, 
Townsend and Schon, the decision to live 
in the company of students up to a decade 
their junior represe·nts less a retreat to the 
past or a fear of the future than a grown-
up decision to contribute actively and pas-
sionately to a collegiate community. Fox, 
for one, in unambiguous in his commit-
ment to Davenport: "It's definitely my 
home." 

-Helen Knight


**THE LETTER OF THE LIE**
**Author: Kate Lund**
**Page number(s): 5**

THE LETTER OF THE LIE 
Like most people who reach the age of76, 
Ana Kyle is set in her beliefs. A handwrit-
ing analyst, she does not care much for 
email. She has no doubts that personality 
can be divined through penstrokes. And 
she believes, beyond conversion, that the 
fifteen ransom notes in the 1932 Lind-
bergh kidnapping case were written by 
American novelist Thomas Wolfe. On the 
last count, she's not in good ~ompany. 

In the winter of 1935, the toddler 
son of aviator-socialites Charles Lind-
bergh and Anne Morrow Lindbergh was 
snatched from the couple's New Jersey 
home, and a peculiar ransom note riddled 
with spelling rn istakes and grammatical 
errors was left in his place. As the search 
for Lindbergh, Jr. continued, so, too, 
did the influx of mysterious missives. 
The notes ultimately totaled more than 
1,700 words 
all of them, of course, 
handwritten. Thus, what journalist H.L 
Mencken called "the biggest s~ory since 
the Resurrection" was of particular inter-
est to handwriting specialists. Seven such 
experts were employed during the trial. 

Kyle's daily work as a-handwriting 
specialist was decidedly less glamorous: 
examining quick claim deeds, wills, and 
February 20 10 
checks under magnification for the.rypes 
of retouching and wavering that indicate 
forgery isn't quite front-page news. But 
14 years into the job, Kyle's interest was 
called to the Lindbergh case and she 
started spending much of her free time 
researching it. She began transferring 
trial transcripts and microfiche notations 
from The Yale Library and The National 
Ar:chive in Washington to her little house 
in Hamden, gathering evidence for her 
growing conviction that the jury, which 
sentenced German Bruno Hauptmann to 
death in 1935, had condemned an inno-
cent man. So began a project that would 
consume her for twenty-three years. 

"These ransom notes read like a story," 
Kyle says of the handwritten messages, 
copies of which she has framed on the 
wall of her study. The first clue that 
pushed Kyle toward her conspiracy theory 
(and the subject of her self-published 
book "The Dead Poets Plus One") was 
the notes' misspellings 
redy, mony, 
shal, gete, wo. "An immigrant who can 
barely speak English?" Kyle asks, referring 
to Hauptmann. Her doubt is palpable. 
She pulls the The Complete Works of 
Chaucer from her bookshelf: "These are 
all words from The Canterbury Tales." 
Kyle indicates other match-ups between 
the text of the notes and texts by Donne 
and Milton. These concordances convince 
Kyle that some man of letters, motivated 
by "money and the desire to deceive the 
world," had been hired by the Lindbergh 
ring to write the notes. 

As Kyle's case spins out, it gets weirder. 
After surveying the handwriting of 
major literary figures of the time, she 
landed on Thomas Wolfe, the early 20th 
century author most famous for Look 
HomewardAngel. Wolfe's handwriting 
does look markedly similar to the hand-
writing of the ransom notes and Kyle 
finds other links. Wolfe graduate from 
Harvard; Lindbergh's lawyer graduated 
where Wolfe made his home. Misspellings 
from the ransom notes 
"efery day'' and 
"wronk" 
appear in a story, "One of the 
Girl in Our Party," that Wolfe was writing 
at the time of the kidnapping. 

The more Kyle talks about her theory, 
the more she uses the word "they." She 
bought six copies of the Wolfe novel 
From Death to Morning, because she was 
worried "they" would destroy it. Wolfe 
himself was not a killer; "they" hired him 
to write the notes without telling him 
what they were going to do. The hand-
writing on a note from Hauptmann to his 
broker looks different from his marriage 
certificate used in the trial: evidence that 
"they" had Wolfe reletter the document to 
implicate the young German. In 1998, 
Thomas Wolfe's old home went up in 
flames. Who was responsible? They were. 
She keeps a leg up on "them" by 
imagining an intricate life for Wolfe by 
memorizing passages of his work, keeping 
the forger in her grasp by becoming inti-
mately familiar with his biography. 

"They can do a lot," she warns, carry-
ing a stack of handwriting manuals back 
to her bookshel£ "But they can't change 
Wolfe." 

~Kate Lund


**ANIMATION NATION**
**Author: Kate Selker**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

ANIMATION NATION 
Sometimes people fly. Sometimes they 
yell. Sometimes they fight, with their 
feet and their fists, pounding faces. Their 
viewing eyes are enormous 
some opened wide 
and round like cherries, others pointier, 
almond shaped. There are monsters, on 
occasion, space creatures or enormous 
polo 
pants spiders that bleed maroon juices and 
snarl. Sometimes there are magical elks 
multicolored shade and stripes of lamp-


--- Page 6 ---

light on dark streets. Sometimes there are 
swords and sometimes there's sex. There 
. are·subtitles, in English. If there weren't, 
you couldn't catch a word. We're watch-
ing imported cartoons, shipped through 
the television waves from Japan. It's An-
ime. Anime, in Japanese, simply means 
"animation." For the most part, Anime 
seems like your average Saturday Morning 
Cartoon. They're often based on Manga 
Qapanese comics), just as the Batman 
and Spiderman series are based on Marvel 
Comics. With a little television magic, the 
pictures move. The sketches come ih. all 
shapes and shades. They're the flat pastels 
of Care Bears and the primary hues of 
Loony Tunes~ 

Yale Anime Society is watching its 
weekly episode of Cowboy Be Bop in the 
basement of Branford College. Here at 
their "viewing circle," there are ten or so 
figures in hoodies and polo shirts, cargo 
pants and skirts. Nobody says hi. Shuf-
fling in at 9:30 pm, I'm late, and they're 
already engaged, save for one young man 
in the back, who is happily brandishing 
a homemade wooden sword, and his vic-
tim, who is playfully punching him back. 
Jazz music slips from the speakers, and 
there's a rocky spacescape on the screen. 

· The Anime Society's oldest member, . 
a graduate student named Josh, explains 
the show to me in whispers from his spot 
on a black leather couch. Somebody tells 
us to be quiet, but Josh responds that 
he's "pulling rank" as a Viewing Circle 
veteran and keeps talking. Cowboy Be 
Bop, he explains, a "genre skipping space 
western." Each episode of action packed 
fighter jets and busty romance is set to a 
different .musical theme. Tonight there are 
trombones and saxophones making the 
space cowboys' shuttleships dance. 

The Anime Society is an accomplished 
bunch 
they are political junkies, stu-
dents of literature, philosophers and 
musicians 
but tonight they're letting 
their eyes turn blue from the screen, let-
ting their serious daytime world morph 
into sornething utterly fantastical. You 
can see the reflection of the cartoon in a 
few pairs of glasses. Fernando, a senior 
member, molds his body into the couch 
as the spaceship lands, and Josh's body is 
tense in observation, muscles rubberband 
taut as he watches a man hop out of the 
ship and onto the bumpy gray surface of 
6 
"DO YOU HAVE A COMRADE? 
some distant planet. Alex, a sophomore, 
has her computer on her lap, trying to 
manage homework and viewing· simul-
taneously, but she's rapt at the screen·. ' ' 

In this moment, nobody's a student any 
longer -they're all bystanders to a drama 
that cannot be missed. By now, they're all 
standing on spacerock themselves, and 
they all fall silent. 

In life, darkness looms one inch away 
ii~"·~ . from you. This world is truly full of mis-
. · takes ....... now, won't you waste your life 
The Anime man is wearing a red 
coat. He is our hero. He rushes towards 
another young mari, who is lying flat on 
the crater-land, gasping, big eyes pulled 
flat into thin, tired lines. Our hero looks 
on~ kneeling, worried. In the back of the 
Branford television room, the boy with · 
his sword has stopped trying to hit his 
friend. A couple to my left moves closer, 
links arms. 

But back on the screen, the man lying 
prone is now just barely talking, exhaust-
ed from battle. It had been a spacerocket 
fight, with yellow explosions and grey 
smoke, loud snaps and swishes and bangs. 
His spacecraft damaged, he was forced to 
attempt a crash landing but botched it. 
He's hurt. 

In his last moments, he tells the red-
coated hero about Julia, someone they 
both know and miss, and both maybe 
love; too. 

"Where is she now?" our hero 
asks. The dying man does not respond, 
but he speaks in whispers of the woman. 
He remembers her from bygone days, 
there, in the corner seat of the bar. "She 
always sat there .... she always requested 
the same song, and smiled, sadly ... 
smiled." It's a cliffhanger. The men's faces 
fade. 

As the jazz slows, we see a campfire 
back on planet earth, we're quickly 
shuttled back to reality with the glaring 
stereotype: there's an American Indian 
chief crosslegged in wild regalia, headdress 
and all, talking to a little boy. They see a 
shooting star. 

"That is no ordinary star," the cheiftan 
says, ponderous. "It is the tear of a war-
rior. He who has finished his battle some-
where on the planet." 

The scene pans out with the campfire 
smoke, to the sky over rockcliffs, then the 
sunset, and the jazz gets lonelier, and the 
credits roll. "Next Episode On Cowboy 
Be Bop," the screen in Branford flashes. 
Cryptic subtitles to prepare us for the in-
stallment to come: 
away with us?" 

-Kate Selker


**CLASS CON**
**Author:  (Author not specified)**
**Page number(s): 6**

CLASS CON 
Tucked away in an office on the- third 
floor of WLH, Professor Kirk Wetters is 
pulling a con job. While his colleagues in 
the German Studies department lecture 
on the brothers Grimm and the Weimar 
Republic, Wetters teaches classes whose 
connection to the studies of his colleagues 
is tenuous 
"Literature, Politics and the 
Public Sphere," "Literature of Travel and 
Tourism," and, this past fall, "Confidence 
Games: Fakes, Frauds, and Counterfeits." 
Wetters' desire to teach a course on 
confidence games was sparked by Orson 
Welles film F for Fake, the famed direc-
tor's late-career meditation about art 
as forgery, the artist as forger. 
Indeed, 
Wetters includes on his syllabus Thomas 
Mann's Confessions of Felix 
Confi-
dence Man: 7be Early Years, the famous 
novel narrated from the first-person per-
spective of a con man 
a doubly unreli-
able narrator. 

But the desire to study such dubious 
protagonists is hardly what drew most stu-
dents to the course. One student discov-
ered the class through his interest in psy-
chology and improv comedy. A graduate 
student who took the course last semester 
had worked on cases of ID theft, another 
in advertising. Failed relationships and the 
sting of betrayed confidence informed an-
other student's Qecision. Understandably, 
then, the class currency was often personal 
baggage. Lessons flowed from one person-



**A Con Man's Education**
**Author: Nicholas Geiser**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
al tale of deception to another. And, of 
course, class discussion itself could be an 
interactive lesson in conning: convinc-
ing the professor that you'd done your 
homework 

But the course's academic anchor 
was Hterature. Wetter uses literary analy- . 
sis as a means . of seeing the con man 
not merely for the con, but also for the -
man. American literature in particular 
romanticizes the con man as an ideal of 
~ 
individualism, 
entrepreneurship, and 
consummate freedom: the trickster is in 
complete control of his end and identity. 
Yet in German, the word for con man 
literally translates. to "high class beggar.'' 
"" 
The con man may have you in his thrall, 
but he's fundamentally dependent: he 
needs you, desperately, to believe him. 
... 
Confidence is a precious resource, and 
the con man requires it in abundance. 
As such, being a con man is not some-
thing that every Tom, Dick, and Bernie 
is cut out for. "There are only two things 
suggests Keith Rubin '12, one of Wet-
ters' students. "The first is a man with 
absolutely p.othing to lose, and the sec-
ond is a psychopath." 
I' 
are only 
that would m 
things 
• 
e you tnto 
1 con ma11. 
e first is a 
tna•l with absolutely noth-
ing to lose, 
d the second 
1 
is a psychopath." 

In Rubin's opinion, the most sinister 
feature of the scammer is the subtleness 
of his crime. The con man's successful 
- schemes meld seamlessly into everyday 
life. The conned does not discover the 
con until it's too late. Philosophers often 
address this particularly disturbing qual-
ity of cons, arguing that a ~arried man 
who is totally oblivious to his w ife's infi-
delity is in worse straits the man signing 
divorce papers. The authenticity of our 
experiences is one of the fuJ?.d amental 
-
qualities of a good life, and cons com-
pletely undercut this authenticity. 

But perhaps the most pragmatic les-
son this class taught was what to do if you 
have the misfortune (or perhaps fortune) 
of discovering you've been conned. You 
can develop a hardened, more cynical at-
titude towards your relationships 
the 
intuitive reaction for many victims 
or 
you can choose to accept the stam with a 
' 
. 
sigh and move on. However, acceptance 
doesn't mean you've thrown up your · 
hands and resigned yourself to the con 
man's insidious ubiquity. On the con-
trary, it means you've denied the scam-
mer his ultimate moral victory: the de-
struction of the very idea of confidence. 
You've conned the con man. 
-Nicholas Geiser 


**Beinecke spares no penny to acquire rare treasures. So how do they make sure they're real?**
**Author: Sarah Mich**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On the fourth floor of the Art Gallery, 
Suzanne Boorsch pulls a print from a black 
box labeled, "Unauthorized Reproduction, 
Tide: Laissez-Faire (Les Affaires)." 
Beneath a red sky, two men are fighting. 
One is faceless and the · other has a fedora. 
Both wear grey slacks and have giant, rug- · 
ged hands. To the left, a policeman turns 
his back to them; he is also wearing grey 
pants. The scene, with its swatches of color 
and bantering men, is comically straight-
forward: aimless rage and controlled pas-. 
sivity together on a single patch of water-
color cement. 

The work does not speak for itself-
or 
at least not entirely. Tucked under its matte 
is a note, written by one Ben Shawn, in or-
ange marker on a torn sheet of notebook 
paper, and it is even more blunt and con-
frontational than the work itself: 
The title (Les Affaires), substituted 
in panmtheses, is as phony as are the 
prints being sold by an unauthorized 
• • . original print, entitled 
2aissez-Faire~ was authorized by me to 
be made by two competent printmaker·s. 
7hey went out of business and sold their 
scr-eens to another· printmaker who has 
been printing them hor"l ibly and selling 
10 
them without any authorization from 
me whatsoever not to mention, without 
• 
any payments whatsoever. 

The phony print is one of about thir-
ty pieces of art fraud kept in the Prints, 
Drawing~, and Photographs Collection at 
the Yale University Art Gallery. The pieces 
are stored together in two airtight solander 
boxes, separated from sunlight, water, and, 
of course, authentic artwork. 

The set is varied. A few are obvious 
fakes, the words "Facsimile Reproduction" 
stamped in black across the back. Others 
don't declare their own disingenuousness 
so openly, and simply have "forgery shelf" 
written in pencil next to the work's year 
and medium. Their subjects are equally di-
. verse. One shows a grey charcoal ballerina 
sitting bent over with her head between her 
legs. She is oddly graceful, but you wonder 
if Rodin would have thought the same. To- · 
ward the bottom of one of the boxes is a 
large "Matisse" sketch of a woman with a 
floral blouse, and above it a simple painting 
that Suzanne, the Robert L. Solley Cura-
tor of Prints, Drawings, and Photographs, 
finds entirely unappealing. "I don't know 
who would want this, even if it were a real 
Whistler!" she says, laughing as she lifts up 
the glassine paper covering the print. 

Yet within this collection, the grey and 
red print and the accompanying words of 
Ben Shawn stand out as a self-referential 
oddity, a work of forgery whose very sub-
ject matter is illegal behavior. In the print, 
after all, the policeman turns a blind eye 
to public disorderliness. It's a sarcastic al-
lusion to the piece's title, the principle that 
the government should not interfere with 
the action of individuals, especially in in-
dustrial affairs, trade, and, indeed, the forg-
ery of art. In a field where quotidian pro-
cesses of authentication are overshadowed 
by the mystery and sex appeal of a good art 
scandal, there is something strangely apt 
about a work that dares to be so blunt and 
matter-of-fact about the whole thing . 

Shawn's piece may be recent history, but 
documented art forgery dates back at least 
400 years. 

By the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, 
the presence of art fraud, already pervasive 
throughout Germanic art, was spreading 
across the Europe. As Yale professor Chris-
topher Wood writes in his book Forgery, 
Replic~ Fiction, "an attitude of rational 
skepticism toward the truth claims of a 
document or a relic" developed extensively 


during the Medieval period. The idea of 
a fictional work, with a different claim to 
the truth than the original, had entered 
into the vernacular. 

From there, the history of art forgery 
began its long and seductive path to the 
fetishization of fakes and frauds in the 
modern day: the Vinland Map, an object 
of topographical intrigue housed in the 
Beinecke library and known around the 
world, discovered in 1965; the work of 
Hans van Meegeren, the rivalrous Dutch 
painter whose Vermeer-esque works · pro-
liferated in Holland during the Second 
World War; the constant presence of 
Dali and Rodin forgeries throughout the 
twentieth century market. Finding their 
way into our notions of art and decep-
tion, many of these scandals have become 
household names . 

Yet on a practical level, at the places 
where books and works of art are prized, 
these concerns are omnipresent. Institu-
tions such as Beinecke Library and the Yale 
University Art Gallery function alongside 
this history, their diligence and common 
sense acting as continuous procedural safe-
guards against fraud. 

Both institutions bring in massive num-
bers of acquisitions each year from a vari-
ety of sources. According to E. C. Schroed-
er, head of Technical Services at Beinecke 
Library, the facility acquires almost one 
thousand linear feet of manuscript mate-
rial and 15,000 books on an annual basis, 
ranging from 15th century texts to books 
published yesterday. It might seem easy for 
a fake to shuffie in along with the fray. 

Yet despite these numbers, Timothy 
Young, Curator of Modern Books and 
Manuscripts says that during his twenty 
years at the Beinecke the sea ndals have 
been few. "For those who want to hear 
about exciting fraud, it's a little boring," 
Young says. "None are terrifically upset-
ting or embarrassing." 

The reason for this, he suggests, is that 
the process of verification is in many ways 
built into the system, starting with the 
source of the acquired material. "When 
we are making a purchase, we go through 
dealers who are truly experienced," he ex-
pia ins. "If they make us an offer that's too 
good to be believed, then we don't believe 
it. 

When it comes to rare literature, Schro-
eder adds, due diligence is beneficial for 
both the bookseller and the library. "It's 
February 2010 
the bookseller's responsibility to make sure 
an item is real 
that's part of the service 
you're paying for, and it would hurt their 
business to make a mistake." Discussion 
about the provenance of an item, its physi-
cal properties, and the terms of sale are all 
negotiated before purchase. After acquisi-
tion, curators will carefully inspect new 
works, counting pages of books and cata-
loguing the contents of archives. 

But, as with all good systems, this one, 
too, has had its share of complications. 
Boorsch recalls one such time at the 
Gallery several years ago, when a 15th 
century print came on the market. "It 
was incredibly rare 
maybe one of four 
or five impressions known in the whole 
world and I thought if we could get it, 
the piece would be a wonderful acquisi-
tion." Boorsch and a paper conservator 
from the Gallery took the train to New 
York to look at the print, and found the 
paper and watermark to be historically ac-
curate. Yet Boorsch felt uneasy about the 
piece, and when she returned to work the 
next day she went through her own dusty 
drawers, only to find a photograph of an 
impression, known to be an original, ar-
chived in England. She noticed that this 
picture had the exact same nick on the top 
right corner of the page as the one at the 
auction house. This confirmed her unease: 
the "print," which was clearly a deliberate 
copy of an impression that was already ac-
counted for, was only as "original" as the 
photo she held in her hand. "We were very 
close to buying it," Boorsch says. "I had to 
go back and tell the dealer what I found." 

While the advancement of digital tech-
nologies has made the quality of facsimiles 
far more accurate and difficult to discern, 
curators often fall back on a much more 
old-fashioned tool for evaluating a work's 
authenticity: instinct. "When you've been 
working with drawings or prints or photo-
graphs for a while, you tend to develop al-
most a sixth sense for when things are off-
kilter," says Young. "You work with these 
objects for twenty years, and you can look 
at a book and say it looks like a book from 
1720. If it feels clean and shiny and pretty, 
how could it have survived 300 years?" 

Alex Nemerov, an Art History profes-
sor, agrees. "For a connoisseur of art, a lot 
matters in the first moment of perception," 
says An History professor Alex Nemerov. 
"However one responds in that instant, 
whatever the gut reaction is, it's bound to 
be right in some way." 

Yet even works that don't pass Nem-
erov's visceral test can have a place in the 
archives. 

At the Beinecke, Schroeder says, dubi-
ous materials can sometimes fall into step 
with the mission of the library itsel£ "They 
become objects of scholarly inquiry," he 
says. ''As long a.S they add to the research 
value of that collection." 

In the 1960s and 70s, for example, little 
booklets of poems by _Gertrude Stein and 
T.S. Eliot began to sell on the manuscript 
market. Curators started addirig them to 
collections, assuming that they had over-
looked these little "Butterfly Books." As 
more and more of these pamphlets ap-
peared, suspicions about their authenticity 
began to mount, and a novelist and Yale 
graduate named Frederic Prokosch soon 
admitted to having forged the booklets. Yet 
the admission didn't render the pamphlets 
worthless. They had already achieved an 
archival value all their own. "We have a 
complete set of them," says Young. "The 
objects have developed their own life"inde-
pendent of Stein or Eliot." 

Though the library errs on the side of 
keeping objects like the Butterfly Books 
that might add depth to future research, 
Young laments the possibility that forger-
ies outshine originals. "People are inter-
ested in fakes and forgeries but we have 
thousands of books that are amazing and 
unexplored, but there is real, deep scholar-
ship to be done with true artifacts of our 
cultural and publishing history." 

Suzanne and I have moved on to the 
second of the boxes, and toward the end 
we find a tan piece of drawing paper with 
a coffee stain in the bottom right corner. 
In the center is a hand-drawn frame, and 
inside it, a picture of George Washington. 
The pencil strokes are faint and simplistic; 
this Washington appears to be a man of 
contours over all else. Written below the 
portrait is the title, "Pencil sketch of Gen-
eral Washington from life taken by Chas. 
Wilson Peale, 1777." 

And directly below that, in compact 
cursive at the bottom of the sketch: 
"This was drawn by P. Tolman for me to 
show how easy it is to make a fake." 

TN 
Sarah Mich is a junior in Saybrook Colk~. 
She is staff on TN] 



**Chika Chika Yeah Fake ID, Fake ID!**
**Author: Bob Jeffery**
**Page number(s): 12**

On Saturday, February 6th, Toad's was 
raided by police. If you're envisioning a 
SWAT team of NHPD officers infiltrat-
ing every entrance of the (in)famous New 
Haven dance club and going LAPD on 
the unsuspecting revelers inside, you'll be 
disappointed. The reality was far less dra-
matic: the music stopped; someone turned 
on the lights, and a few cops surveyed the 
dance floor for minors. Two underage 
patrons who neglected to put down their 
drinks were busted for consuming alcohol 
and potentially using false identification. 

This is nothing Toad's hasn't seen be-
fore. Eighty-seven Toad's-goers were de-
tained when the nightclub was raided 
back in November 2005. The ordeal 
landed Toad's a $90,000 fine and a 90-day 
forced suspension during the summer of 
2007 after the case was finally settled. But 
for current Yalies, many of whom forget 
that they're not legally permitted to drink 
as soon as they set foot on Old Campus, 
this intensification of police activity comes 
as a surprise in an otherwise lax drinking 
environment. Toad's in particular seemed 
to have successfully evaded police scru-
tiny when it began admitting 19 and 20 
year olds in an effort to <:urb fake ID use 
in January of last year. However, this most 
recent incident may be just one part of a 
larger crackdown on underage drinking 
12 
By Bob Jeffery 
and fake ID use by police in the greater 
New Haven area. 

Symptoms of an intensified response by 
both Yale and New Haven police emerged 
last semester, perhaps in reaction to an ab-
normally high number of alcohol-related 
hospitalizations. The Yale Daily News re-
ported that several students who purchased 
alcohol on Halloween weekend were ap-
proached by the police after leaving vari-
ous liquor stores. Those caught possessing 
alcohol as minors had their liquor seized 
and some were slapped with hefty fines . 

In that weekend alone, the total number 
of citations issued last semester by the Yale 
police tripled, and this heightened police 
activity ensued for weeks thereafter. An-
other, slightly more fortunate Yale student 
who wishes to remain anonymous reports 
that his fake ID got scanned the weekend 
of the Harvard-Yale football game at a li-
quor store where it had always worked be-
fore. He was denied, and when he stepped 
outside empty-handed the police who 
had been watching from across the street 
searched his backpack for the alcohol that 
he had luckily not been able to buy. 

Such stories have become somewhat 
foundational to the American college ex-
perience 
a staple of being a "not-quite-
adult" in a country with one of the highest 
drinking ages in the world. For the nearly 
three quarters of college students who are 
under the legal drinking age, fake IDs are 
almost commonplace. Part of the success 
of the 2007 comedy Superbad was its 
ability to so beautifully (and hilariously) 
capture a feeling to which many young 
Americans can relate: buying alcohol with 
a fake ID for the first time. But exactly 
how many McLovins are nervously finger-
ing through their wallets at bars and liquor 
stores around Yale? Who has fake IDs? 
Where do they get them? And do they 
work? Do Yale students' smarts make them 
more likely to curl up with a book than 
to seek out cheap, alcohol-induced thrills 
on a Saturday night before they are of the 
appropriate age? Or has that same cunning 
made them equally well versed at decep-
tion, seeking refuge from endless Cold 
War reading at the bottom of a handle of · 
Popov? 

A survey of more than 200 Yale stu-
dents suggests that the number of under-
age Yalies with fake IDs is higher than one 



**Fake IDs at Yale: A Survey**
**Author: Bob Jeffery**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
---
-- -------.;~----~----~----~-~--~~~ 
may expect for a school that hand picks 
its students from a pool of more than 20 
thousand nerds. 
According to the survey, some 31.5 
percent of respondents have a fake ID that 
they currently use. An added 28.5 per-
cent have had a fake ID at some point in 
their lives but either lost it, got it taken, or 
' 
turned twenty-one and no longer use one. 
Fakes are much more prevalent among 
. upperclassmen than their younger peers. 
Only 20 percent of freshmen confessed 
to having a fake ID. However, this figure 
jumped exponentially amongst sopho-
mores polled, 62o/o of whom admitted 
to ever having a fake. Numbers increased 
again among the class of 2011, 65% of 
whom had fakes. Of the seniors polled, 
85% have had fake IDs at Yale at some 
poi-nt. The trend suggests that, although 
most students do not come to Yale with a 
fake ID, many are quick to learn the ropes 
and soon hop on the bandwagon. 
And the dupes work. Over 90% of stu-
dents with fake IDs at Yale claim success 
at least most of the time, while 42°/o claim 
their fakes has never been denied in New 
Haven. 

So what kinds of IDs work? (Freshmen 
take note.) Surprisingly, these success rates 
were fairly consistent across the broad cat-
egories ofiDs that Yale students use. 1hose 
polled were asked to specify whether they 
had a real government issued ID that they 
got from someone who is now over 21, a 
falsely made ID with their own name and 
picture on it, or a falsely made ID with 
someone else's name and picture on h. As 
it turns out, falsely made dfivers' licenses 
with an individual's correct information 
are slightly more successful than those 
with someone else's information on them. 

Anecdotal evidence, however, suggests 
otherwise. Two Yale freshmen who decid-
ed one night to play "Big Buck Hunter," a 
video arcade game at a certain bar/restau-
rant in downtown New Haven in which 
you shoot enormous animated deer. The 
venue requires that patrons be at least 21 
to enter, so our buck hunters needed to use 
their fakes. The first young man flashed a 
real New York drivers' license that he had " 
I please have lilY ID 
gotten from his older sister's ex-boyfriend back " the boy asked the 
who, save for the fact that he was blonde, 
looked nothing like him. But the bouncer bouncer. "I'll pay you!" 
paid no notice an~ let him in as the seco.nd 
e bo 
cer perked up." 
student handed him a falsely made Mame 
driver's license with his own name and 
picture on it. The bouncer took a good, 
long look, darting his eyes back and forth 
between the ID and an electronic palm-
pilot-sized scanner made to help bouncers 
" 
spot fakes, before he put the ID in his back 
pocket and said, "Have a good night." 
"Excuse me?" The boy asked, feigning 
to take offense as if he had no idea what 
had gone awry. · 
· · "Have a good night," the bouncer re-
peated . 

At a loss for what to do next, and hav-
ing paid $150 for that piece of plastic, he 
quickly went from tough guy 
"Hey 
man, that's my real ID, give it back!"- to, 
well... this: "Look, I don't even want. to 
drink! It's a school night and we just came 
to play Big Buck. Can I please have my 
ID back? Please?" But the sympathy ap-
peal didn't work and the bouncer paid no 
attention to him. The situation was hope . 
less, that is, until the boy desperately cried, 
''I'll pay you!" 

The bouncer perked up. He leaned in 
close to the boy and said in a loud whis-
per, "Here's the deal: I want you to turn 
around, walk out those doors, drop a 
twenty on the ground, and I'll meet you 
outside." 

The young man followed the bouncer's 
orders exactly and waited nervously for 
him outside in the New Haven cold. After 
retrieving the Jackson from the floor, the 
bouncer emerged as promised and handed 
the boy his ID back, and then said, "Just 
so you know, I knew this ID was fake be-
cause there's supposed to be a hologram 
across the bottom" (that's what the palm-
pilot must have told him). He continued, 
"Between you and me, some people fake it 
with a gold marker." 

Bouncers aren't the only ones capital-
izing on kickbacks; there's a lot of money 
in fakes. The fake ID business has become 
an extremely lucrative enterprise for those 
who have the Photoshop skills and are 
willing to assume the risks involved in 
making them. While 40 percent of Yale 
students report receiving their ID for free 
from an older friend, Yalies who had their 
ID made with their own photo on it paid 
an average of approximately $110 per ID. 

Most students with fake IDs at Yale 
have IDs that are meant to resemble U.S. 
driver's licenses, and they hail from all over 
the country. Between the 119 respondents 
who have fakes, 30 different U.S. states 
are represented, . the most common being 
California (24%), New York (15%), and 
Texas (10%). However, 12 percent of stu-
dents use fake IDs in New Haven that do 
.. 
not pretend to be from the U.S. 

One junior, who hails from England, 
had to deal with the freshman year frus-
tration of being legally allowed to drink at 
pubs back home but not at bars in the state 
of Connecticut. She did some research 
online and stumbled upon a U.K. based 
website that makes fake IDs at a bargain. 
For just twenty pounds, approximately 31 
dollars, they would mail you a fake U.K. 
identification card with your picture on 
it. Of course, until this year, there was no 
such thing as a U.K. identification card-
but bouncers in ·New Haven don't know 
that. The junior and her closest friends all 
placed an order. The fakes have never once 
failed. 

Interestingly enough, it seems that 
bouncers don't know what to do with 
themselves when someone hands them a 
foreign ID. Maybe it's because the date is 
written differently (dd/mm/yyyy vs. mm/ 
dd/yyyy), or perhaps its because ID scan-
ners don't have foreign IDs in their data-
bases; but whatever the reason, this group 
more than any other has the highest suc-
cess rate with their IDs in New Haven. 

When compared to the 91.5 percent of 
total respondents who say that their ID 
works "most of the time," 100 percent of 
those who use fake foreign IDs in New 
Haven say that it works at least "most of 
the time," and 61 percent say, "it has never 
been denied." 

So if you can get your hands on a non-
U.S. ID, that's the way to go. And you 
may be able get one for even less than 20 
pounds. One Yale sophomore from Main-
land China reports fakes on the market for 
a mere fifty cents. 

However, the cost of getting caught 
with a fake ID is not so inexpensive. Ac-
cording to Connecticut state law, th_e con-
sequences of using a fake ID to buy alco-
hol, whether it's a falsely made ID or one 
belonging to someone other than yourself, 
is a minimum fine of $200 and/or up to 


thirty days in jail. 

The market for fake IDs likely exploded 
in the wake of the 1984 National Mini-
mum Drinking Age Act that effectively 
raised the drinking age in the United 
States to 21. Prior to 1984, the drinking 
age varied state by state, but the act stipu-
lated that federal revenue be withheld from 
states that did not comply with the 21 year 
old minimum drinking age law. While 
the drinking age is still set by individual 
states, there is little room for defiance 
by individual states who needed federal 
funding to keep their highways flowing. 

However, contrary to popular belief, this 
act did not prohibit the consumption of 
alcohol outright. Only fourteen states and 
the District of Columbia specifically out-
law the consumption of alcohol by minors 
altogether, nineteen states have laws that 
are somewhat ambiguous, and seventeen 
states contain clauses that actually permit 
alcohol consumption by those under the 
age of 21 in certain circumstances. 

In Connecticut, such exceptions can be 
found couched deep in legal jargon. While 
possession of alcohol on the street will nor-
mally land you a fine upwards of $200 as a 
minor, you are in fact allowed to "possess" 
alcohol while accompanied by a parent, 
guardian, or spouse who is over 21.  

Moreover, just for having a fake driv-
ers license you could be suspended from 
operating a motor vehicle in the state of 
Connecticut for two months. 

Connecticut state law makes no dis-
tinction between IDs that are entirely fake 
and real IDs that do not belong to the 
person using it. However, not only does 
the Yale poll suggest that real IDs are less 
successful at bars and liquor stores around 
New Haven, but under federal law, assum-
ing another person's government issued ID 
is an even nwre severe crime, as it verges 
on identity theft. 

If you are arrested for underage drink-
ing, it's alway~ better to show your real ID 
than to flash a cop your fake. Not only do 
cops tend to value their egos, it is better 
to be charged with underage drinking than 
with use of a fake ID, because the former 
does not result in Jail time while the latter 
may. 

The fake ID problem is one that is by 
no means unique to New Haven; it is the 
U.S. college culture that forces these forged 
identities. While fake IDs may abound, 
the truth is that access to alcohol in college 
does not depend on whether or not you 
have a fake ID, and cracking down on the 
latter will not thwart access. One fourth 
of college students will always be of legal 
age, and the remaining three fourths will 
take advantage. So as police everywhere 
· perpetuate the ebb and flow of harsh en-
forcement, students will always discover 
new ways to find fakes and buy booze. 

TN 
Bob Jeffery is a junior in Branford College. 


**One Man's Mission to Dress People Up Without Selling Out**
**Author: Jess Cole**
**Page number(s): 15**

One man's mission to dress people up without selling out . 

Animal heads surround me. They are 
stacked on shelves, falling off of coun-
ters, staring at me with oversized cartoon 
eyes. I start reaching out to feel the top of 
a panda's head when my ·guide appears in 
the entrance from the parking lot, stomp-
ing his feet to get rid of the snow on his 
boots and leaning a shovel against the 
doorway. "Those?" he asks with a nod to 
my furry acquaintances. "We have about 
200 of them. And that doesn't include our 
97 bunnies." 

Meet Jeff Russell, the owner of Cos-
tume Bazaar, a cavernous store on State 
Street that is stuffed with costumes, mas-
cots, face paints, and assorted oddities .. In 
his baseball cap and a drab pullover, Jeff 
stands in stark contrast to the sequined 
mannequins around him_, but he walks 
through the room with an air of comfort 
and confidence that makes it clear he feels 
at home. He ushers me past a row of glit-
ter-encrusted ruby slippers down a set of 
stairs painted to match the yellow brick 
road, and into his office . 

Once inside, the magic falls away. There 
are no bright colors, no showy masks. The 
clutter of costumes upstairs has given way 
to a different kind of mess downstairs;-
Jeff's cubicle is completely covered with 
pictures of family members, playbills, 
and hockey memorabilia. As we talk, Jeff 
peers over my head at a t.iny television; the 
Olympics are on, and, he informs me, he 
knows several players on the U.S. men's 
hockey team. Before becoming the own-
er of Costume Bazaar, Jeff was a college 
hockey player himsel£ He also spent time 
as a sports director on an AM station, and 
a public relations coordinator for a profes-
sional hockey team, and is the inventor 
of the foam goalie pads now in use in the 
NHL And though becoming the propri-
etor of a costume store may not seem like 
the most logical professional choice for 
someone with Jeff's resume, it was a career 
move that came as no surprise to his par-
ents. After all, Costume Bazaar is his faro-
ily's business. Jeff's mother, Joan, founded 
the store in 1964 . 

Prior to then, Joan spent much of her 
time making costumes for her husband, 
Joey Russell, who played the title charac-
ter of the Colonel Clown Show, popular at 
the time on regional television stations. He 
needed clown suits and Santa suits, which 
were also coveted by department stores in 
the area, and so the Russells began adding 
to a..J.d renting out their collection. They 
acquired Easter Bunnies, too, and kept 
them in piles in their garage. Soon, even 
neighbors and acquaintances began asking 
for costumes, and Joan opened up a small 
shop to handle the demand. 


**Costume Bazaar**
**Author: Jess Cole**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
Since then, the shop has moved loca-
tions four times and expanded its invento-
ry considerably 
it's now a 15,000 square 
foot ,J:>ehernoth roughly twice the size of 
Toads. As Jeff leads me through the store, 
I learn that the animal heads that greeted 
me earlier in the day were just the begin-
ning. Behind a cuttain marked "Employ-
ees Orily," I find racks and racks and racks 
of dresses, tuxedoes, and plastic crowns. 
"We own about 40,000 costumes/' Jeff 
says with a wave of his hand. Costume Ba-
zaar is not for the indecisive. "We ask them 
to zero. in a bit ahead of time. Look at our 
website, email us with preferences, just to 
get their wheels spinning," Jeff answers. 
But the Internet is not always a boon for 
the Bazaar, he explains. While people still 
enjoy coming into the shop to try on apd 
buy costumes, they also arrive with a pre-
set sense of their desires based on the im-
age searches that they have already done. 

"If someone saw an Alice in Wonderland 
costume with a white shirt online, that's all 
they want. Never mind that you have the 
perfect costume with an off-white shirt." 
Overall, though, "coming here is not like 
going to the dentist or the accountant. 
People come in here in a good mood." 
The back of the store contains a sew-
ing area with stacks offabric that will be 
used for the custom costumes the store 
produces for theat.er companies. Though 
these troupes represent· the bulk of the 
store's long-term cl.ientele, they are hardly 
the Bazaars only major customers. Corpo-
. rate rentals are important too: G.E., for 
example, dresses up about 100 volunteers 
annually for its employee holiday party. 
Additionally, celebrations throughout the 
year such as Purim and Mardi Gras cre-
ate small spikes in demand. But nothing, 
of course, can outdo the seasonal rush of 
Halloween, 

For that holiday, Costume Bazaar packs 
its basement with retail goods and dam-
aged costumes that trick-or-treaters can 
buy off the rack instead of renting. Hal-
loween accounts for 25 percent of the 
store's annual gross income, and between 
Labor Day and Halloween, Jeff works sev-
en days a week to meet the demand. I ask 
if he is ever shocked by what people come 
up with, and he slowly shakes his head. 
"After a while, nothing surprises me." He 
motions to a bright, floor-length purple 
gown: "This could be the 40th time I have 
seen a guy putting on a purple dress for 


Halloween has become an even harder 
market to corner. In· recent years, there has 
been a growth in competition from 'tem-
porary stores that set up in empty store-
fronts for the two months before the holi-
day and disappear right afterwards. Two 
years ago, he counted 19 of them within 
seven miles of the Bazaar, and the industry 
is only expanding. He acknowledges that 
they are savvy from a profit perspective, 
but reminds me that he pays taxes year-
round and is part of a core. community of 
New Haven store owners whose rhythms 
are disrupted by these new arrivals. 
'~It's 
been a bigger challenge recently. They defi-
nitely take away from our gr~vy." 

He also hints at changes in the de-
mographics of his clientele and, noting 
a couple of racy Red Riding Hood cos-
tumes, I press him for more ~nformation. 
"Halloween used to be a kids' industry. 
Now, we target 18- to 30-year-old girls. 
Dressing up and the fantasy involved have 
become part of our culture, and its 'the 
sexier the better."' Young women, then, 
account for about four out of every ten 
dollars spent on Halloween costumes, and 
they also provide a bonus: almost all of the 
girls· b.dng at least two or three friends to 
provide feedback or shop for themselves. 
Still, Jeff made a personal decision to re-
move the adult novelty section from the 
store wh~n his kids became old enough to 
visit. Jeff feels the financial reverberations 
of that decision, especially considering the 
popularity of Very Intimate Pleasures, or 
V.I.P, an adult-themed store close by. Does 
he think people ever use Costume Ba-
zaar for more inature self-entertainment? 
"I guess some are clean, some are not so 
clean," he tells me. "40 years ago, people 
did things like that discreetly. Now, they 
want a public shock factor at a whole dif-
ferent level." The potential profits, he as-
sures me, are not worth the cost of having 
his children or anyone else's children find 
something inappropriate in their father's 
store. The potential profits, he assures me, · 
are not worth the cost of having his chil-
dren find anything inappropriate in their 
'father's store. After all, they can always· put 
the adult room back when Costume Ba-
. 
' 
zaar belongs to them. 

jess Cole is a sophomore in Pierson College. 


**The Imposter's Guide to Yale**
**Author: Ari Berkowitz and Jacque Feldman**
**Page number(s): 18**

In · 1997, Tonica Jenkins was arrested for 
faking a resume to gain admission to Yale's 
School of Medicine. In 2007, it was dis-
covered th_at Shin Jeong-ah, a professor at 
Korea's Dongukk University had forged 
a letter alleging that she had earned doc-
torate from Yale's Graduate School .Two 
years ago, Akash Maharaj lied about un-
dertaking a rigorous course of study and 
achieving straight N.s at Columbia to win 
a transfer into Morse's class of 2008. In all 
three cases, the repercussions for the outed 
impostors was severe: In June of 2008, 
Makharaj pleaded guilty in New Haven 
Superior Court to · having defrauded Yale 
of over $31,000 in scholarships, and was 
ordered to pay the University full res-
titution or face three years in jail. Shin 
Jeong-ah lost her job, was sentenced to 
18 months in prison and led Dongguk to 
file a $50 million lawsuit against Yale for 
mistakenly confirming the ex-professors 
inflated credentials. Jenkins, for whom a 
fake Yale application seemed to be only a 
gateway crime with biting a police of-
ficer and attempting to buy $70,000 of 
cocaine among the others 
was sentenced 
to 20 years in prison for attempted murder 
in 2003. 

'While we at 7he New journal certainly 
to do not condone such acts of criminal-
ity, we understand 
at least in some re-
spects 
the impulse behind them. Every 
year, thousands high school seniors and 
transfer applicants are barred from Yale's 
ivory tower by the crapshoot of college 
admissions. But while to most of these 
rejects go gracefully to other schools, the 
well-informed impostor follows a differ-
ent path. In the Imposter's Guide to Yale, 
Ari Berkowitz and Jacque Feldman, bona 
fide Yalies, show you how to fake it till you 
make it. 

Just don't blow their cover. 

1. If you were given the Student ID 
number of a pal with an unlimited meal 
plan, or you stole it when he was up get-
ting his third helping of tofu apple crisp, 
we offer the following advic~: Use it! Stud-
ies by impostors very much like ourselves 
have found that SID numbers can be used 
multiple times by multiple people in mul-
tiple dining halls if you wait 12 minutes 
between swipes. While attempts to use 
unlimited plans to cash in at Durfee's 
and eat in a dining halls at the same time 
have failed, the simultaneous swipe offi-
cially slides. Which means: give your un-
limited SID number out to your friends, 
they use their Durfee's swipe to get mixers, 
and then both of you use your SID to get 
lunch. Impostor: 1, Yale_: 0. 

2. The three doors on the north side of 
Berkeley's dining hall make the college es-
pecially vulnerable to access by impostors. 
Just make sure Anette is pointing to the 
Purell disp.enser before you make your en-
trance. While she looks the other way in 
the name of sanitation, you slip past in the 
name of free food.· 

3. Saybrook . is another easy target, as 
the main entrance is out of sight from the 
check-in counter. 
During peak hours, 
simply sneak inside, claim a table and then 
assure the dining hall attendant that you 
already swiped in. 

4. A tip for· any hall 
especially for 
lunch and dinner: simply offer to bring 
in the trays of those eating. outside dining 
halls in common rooms or to come in car-
rying a plate. No one will ask you to swipe 
if you're carrying already used materials. 
Cutlery is the perfect prop for a culinary 
con. Take it. Keep it. Use it when you need 
• lt • 

5. Bring two tupperware containers 
into the dining hall and collect what cereal 
you need to stave off late-night hunger. Be 
bold. Yasha Magarik, a sophomore who 
speaks openly about his experiences pilfer-
ing cereal from dining halls says, "It's not 
a question of morals." He just gets hun:-
gry. "Confidence is a big factor," continues 
Margarik. ''I'm pretty confident when I go 
to take the cereal. I'm going to get that ce-
real. And unless they're really opposed 
to it, I end up getting it." 



**Impostor's Guide to Yale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
February 20 10 
6. As residents of eight-person suites, 
we attest that we are never bothered, nor 
even a little perturbed, by the occasional 
stranger crashing on our futons, or even 
the occasional stranger still crashed on 
our futons after Sunday brunch with wine 
stains all over his shirt. If we don't know 
him, he must be someone else's friend! So, 
when you're ready to turn in for the night, 
simply gain access to the entryway (see 
below) of one ofYale's bigger suites 
the 
TD octet, the Welch 12-pack, or President 
Levin's house, just to name a few 
and 
make yourself at home on its common 
room futon. 

7. To gain access to a residential col-
lege or entryway, the would-be impostor 
can try simply standing outside the door 
begging passerby to swipe him in. Don't 
worry about giving yourself away: Yalies 
do this all the time. To get into Davenport 
without an ID this morning, the process 
lasted just 57 seconds 
and it only took 
that long because our enabler kept her ID 
in an especially cavernous purse. A second 
attempt to get from outside the gate and 
into an entryway lasted just 49.57 seconds. 

8. Some impostors have reportedly suc-
ceeded in finding temporary housing in 
Yale's 22 libraries. Bass is open to the pub-
lic until 6 p.m. If one is willing to wait it 
out, it is said that sleeping in a weenie-bin 
can be quite comfY. 

9. Would-be impostors are advised to 
check out free, open late-night parties 
thrown by Yale frats on Thursdays (SAE) 
and Saturdays (DKE). Frat brothers at 
the door check Yale IDs, but how difficult 
could it be, really, to get in as a non-Yalie? 
"Depends," says one SAE brother. "Male 
or female non-Yalie? We check IDs, but 
when it comes to girls, we turn a blind 
eye." But don't be disheartened, male 
• Impostors; you can rage, too 
we sug-
gest cross-dressing. That will make you an 
. 
"h "I 
rmpost-
er . 

10. If you really can't live without your 
studies, impostor, just sneak into the back 
of a big lecture. No one will care. Report-
edly Elana Ponet, the wife of Slifka head 
Rabbi Jim Ponent, chooses one class per 
semester to sit it on and do some of the 
assignments for. 
Last year she commit-
ted herself to Daily Themes. Continuing 
education is possible with or without Yale 
accreditation ... and its price tag! 


**The $60,000 Summer: A Yale Painting Saga**
**Page number(s): 21**

' 
In 2008, a Yale senior made close to 
$60,000 in one summer painting houses. 
As fantastical as it may sound, especially 
to the many Yale students who see ener-
vating banking and consulting internships 
as the only way to make m<?ney over the 
summer, the story of Max Rhodes '09 is 
no fairy tale. 

In an article, seductively titled "Rhodes 
'09 earns big with paint," published in the 
Yale Daily News last February, Rhodes 
described how he spent the summer of 
2008 running a painting business through 
a contracting company called College Pro 
Painters. He conceded that it is "not an 
easy job, and it can go horribly wrong 
if the wrong person is set to do it." But 
then, as if to suggest that there are very few 
"wrong" people for the job, he launched 
into a lengthy list of his previous failures, 
as if to say "If I did it, anyone can. I wasn't 
successful with much before I worked 
with College Pro. I didn't make the debate 
team, didn't get into the a capella group I 
tried out for, and got rejected from tour 
guiding. College Pro really gave me an op-
portunity to reinvent myself" 

And, if Yale students needed any more 
reason to be intrigued, Rhodes also cred-
ited his experiences with College Pro for 
helping:him secure a job at Bain & Com-
pany, the prestigious consulting firm, after 
graduation. 

$60,000 of income in a single sum1ner? 
A resume bullet so impressive it commands 
a job at Bain? An opportunity for an every-
man to transform into an ubermench? 
Yale students were sold. 

Frank Piasta, YC '09, is perched on the top 
rung of a ladder leaning against a large, 
Victorian house in New Canaan. Orna-
mental carvings, intricate spiral railings 
and terraces abound -
a painter's night-
mare. Frank, however, seems unfazed. He 
swishes his brush methodically across the 
slats, adding to the Jackson Pollack-esque 
splatters on his "College Pro Painters" t-
shirt. 

Piasta graduated last spring from Yale, 
where he played on the soccer team with 
Max Rhodes, the College Pro legend who 
also graduated in Yale's class of 2009. 
When Piasta struggled to find a job after 
graduation, Rhodes suggested he sign as 
a Franchise Manager with College Pro for 
the summer to pick up some extra money 
and supplement his resume before search-
ing for a permanent JOb. Piasta thought he 
had hit the jackpot. 

"Max talked about how cool it was to 
run your own business and made it seem 
like it would be easy to make a lot of mon-
ey," Piasta recalls with a sarcastic guffaw. 
This afternoon, it's easy to see-that reality's 
set in. "If you had showed up 20 minutes 
ago you would have really had a story." 

As I watch him touch up second-floor 
window frames, Piasta launches into a sto-
ry 
just one of many he has to undermine 
the Rhodes College Pro myth. Laughing, 
he tells me about how one of his painters, 
whom he'd found on Craigslist.com, had 
decided to put that morning's pay towards 
a liquid lunch of Captain Morgan. Piasta 
was watching the clock, wondering why 
his painter was an hour late to come back 
from a 30-minute break, when a police 
car pulled up and discharged the mum-
bling tippler on the steps of the work site: 
He had been found, the police told him, 
passed out on the steps of an assisted liv-
• mg center. 

"Of course I fired him immediately," 
Piasta assures me. "But it's crazy! Working · 
for College Pro is very much to be in the 
real world. You interview your painters, 
but you can't really tell what they'll be like 
until they show up at production. You re-
ally have to look out for yourself, because 
nobody else is." 

Not even College Pro Painters. 

Piasta is one of fourteen current and re-
cently graduated Yale 
students 
who 
worked as Franchise Managers for College 
Pro Painters this past summer. Instead of 
fetching coffee for their bosses at intern-
ships in New York or Hong Kong, these 
students were the bosses. They focused 
mainly on marketing, hiring painters and 
managing production, leaving the dirty 
work to hired employees. But when I vis-
ited Piasta's final worksite in late Septem-
ber, he and Tom, another member ofYale's 
class of 2009 who had run a College Pro 
franchise that summer who asked that his 
real name not be used for this article, were 
in fact the only painters. 

Piasta was looking to save himself the $8 
or $9 an hour he typically paid to employ-
ees by painting himself and using only two 
other painters: Mr. Captain Morgan, who 
had been let go earlier that afternoon, and 
Tom. Tom, a friend of Piasta's from Yale, " 
was painting to pick up a little extra cash 
as College Pro the ul-
before moving to Manhattan to search for 
a finance job. He had closed out his busi-
ness the week before, barely breaking even 
after ten weeks on the job. 

"It didn't really work out as well for me 
as it did for other people," remarks Tom 
of his experience as a Franchise Manager 
while he picks at paint splotches on his 
Yale sweatshirt. "But regardless, the idea of 
running your own business at our· age is 
pretty incredible." 

Tom was not alone in his struggles. Six 
of the 14 Yale students who bought Col-
lege Pro_ franchises last summer termi-
nated their contracts early and were left in 
debt 
in one case for more than $7,000. 
Of those who lasted the summer, mo~t . 
made money, but nobody's earnings . ap-
proached what Rhodes had grossed the 
summer before. 

Operating in 32 states and seven Cana-
dian provinces, College Pro Painters is a 
painting contracting company that hires 
mostly students and recent graduates to 
run their own painting businesses. Before 
Rhodes' first stint at the company in sum-
mer 2008, College Pro Painters was not a 
popular presence on campus -
especially 
wheri compared to ubiquitous banking 
and consulting heavyweights like Gold-
man Sachs and McKinsey. 

But when last February turned to 
March and March sent most unemployed 
Yalies into a frenzy about last minute sum-
mer plans, suddenly the name "College 
Pro Painters" started popping up every-
where. And rumors did too. 

You get to run your own business! Did you 
hear about that Max Rhodes kid? You can 
make lots of money! He got a job with Bain 
because of it! It can't be that hard - it's just 
painting. 

Were you to Google "College Pro Paint-
ers" you would find that the two top 
searched results were "College Pro Paint-
ers Complaints" and "College Pro Painters 
Scam" - both clocking in with over 15,000 
pages. One reads "College Pro Painting 
took me out of college, put me in debt 
and almost ruined my life." Similar hits 
abound: "I need help guys! I'm caught in 
a College Pro scam!" The description for a 
Facebook group titled "College Pro Paint-
ers is Exploiting College Students" reads as 
follows: 

1. College Pro Painters is taking advantag~ of 
students countrywide. 
2.Ifyou have bad credit, are in debt, work~d 
t1n1ate 
opp 
ty, 
or 
the ultin1ate 
if it was a 
did Max 
odes 
$60,000 in one s 
· how 
" 



**Title: The College Pro Conundrum**
**Author: [Author Name Not Provided]**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
the whole summer without pay, or maybe 
even made some money but not the 15, 000 
to 20, 000. they said you would earn, then 
this group is for you. 

3. The public needs to know!! These students 
think that by working 40-hour weeks or 
more that they will be able to help with the 
costs of a completing a college degree, but it 
is not the case when College Pro Painters is 
the employer. 

4. Please do not be afraid to stand up!! 
I now had two completely conflicting ac-
counts of College Pro. Was it the ultimate 
opportunity, or the ultimate mistake? And 
if it was a mistake, how did Max Rhodes 
make a killi~g working for the company? 
I decided to work from the ground up, 
learning about the process of running 
a College Pro franchise from signing to 
closeout, scraping the false rumors away 
from the truths like paint off a peeling 
house. 
I started from the inside. 

When we talk on the phone to set up a 
meeting, Joe Cunliffe, the Vice President 
of College PrO's New England branch, 
sounds strangely suspicious. "What ex-
actly do you plan to write about?" he asks. 
''And who exactly have you talked to?" I 
run down the list- making sure to inter-
sperse the names of those who had positive 
reviews of College Pro with those whose 
assessments were less than glowing. 
"Wow. Yup, you've gotten to pretty much 
all of our guys," Cunliffe says. 
I ask to be put in contact with College 
Pro's regional manager for Connecticut, 
Jordan Driediger, who has had the most 
direct interaction with the Yale franchi-
sees. Cunliffe refuses. "Lets just see what 
we can get through first," he says genially, 
dismissing the idea without rejecting it 
outright. He possesses the practiced finesse 
of a true salesman. 

When we meet in person, at the Star-
bucks where he interviews Yale College 
Pro applicants, Cunliffe is only slightly 
less reserved. He is professional, carry-
ing a brown leather portfolio and sport-
ing a navy sweater and khakis. Only 27, 
he speaks with conviction and confidence 
of someone much older. But his baby-face 
and mousy brown hair lend him an unex-
pected and youthful softness. 
I start by asking Cunliffe to walk me 
through the process of hiring an applicant 
- how does College Pro recruit its franchi-
sees? How do they convince a recruit that 
buying a College Pro franchise is a good 
idea? What qualities do they look for in a 
franchisee? 

Given the company's tide, I was sur-
prised when he told me that one of the 
answers to my last question was not that 
the applicant is a college student. Though 
the company's website boasts "When you 
choose us, you are investing in the career 
path of young entrepreneurs through real-
world business experiences," there is not 
actually an age or educational requirement 
in order to become a College Pro franchi-
see or painter. In fact, a few of the Fran-
chise Managers and many of the painters 
hired by College Pro have never attended 
college. 

Cunliffe explains that the company's 
name stems not from the fact that Col-
lege Pro Painters hires only college stu-
dents, but that it was founded by a college 
student in 1971. Applicants are assessed 
based on eight criteria, he tells me - lead-
ership qualities, organization, strong val-
ues, tenaciousness, instrumental ability 
(the combination of being able to speak 
well, to present, and to do math), the abil-
ity to handle stress and emotions, the abil-
ity to set (and hit) goals, and the ability to 
understand oneself and others. 
"We interview twenty...:two applicants for 
every hire that we make," he boasts. 
One past franchisee, however, speculates 
that College Pro is not as selective as Cun-
liffe claims. "Jordan signed anyone who 
wanted to sign," says Dan Li, a former 
franchisee who graduated from Yale last 
spring. 

Li is referring to Jordan Driediger, the 
General Manager for College Pro's New 
England Brach who is responsible for 
signing all of the franchisees in the New 
England area. "By law, College Pro is sup-
posed to make potential franchisees hold 
the Franchise Disclosure Document for 
two weeks before they accept it," Li says, 
explaining that the Franchise Disclosure 
Document includes the contract as well as 
all pertinent information regarding Col-
lege Pro Painters. "I signed in 48 hours 
and they back dated the contract, stamp-
ing a date that was twelve days earlier than 
I had actually signed. I guess you can say 
I was overeager but that's the point of the 
fourteen day wait." 

Li, who terminated his contract with 
College Pro in June of 2009 when he re-
ceived a job offer in finance, also claims 
he never received a copy of the contract 
to keep for his records. "They gave me an-
other booklet without my signature," he 
remembers. 
"There is no way this could have hap-
pened," Cunliffe claims when I ask him 
about it. "We are part of a publicly trad-
ed company and as such, are subject to 
government audits to make sure that we 
have the proper backup for everything 
we do including the contracts that we 
sign and how they are handled." 

Cunliffe seems pained that I am at all 
suspicious of College Pro Painters. This 
is not surprising he's invested the past 
nine years of his life in the company, first 
as a Franchise Manager for three years, 
then as a General Manager for three 
years and finally as a Vice-.Presideht for 
three years. He responds defensively to 
some of my more probing questions, but 
he seems more sad than offended, as if 
I'm insulting his integrity by investigat-
ing College Pro. 

Cunliffe asks me what my take on 
College Pro is. He poses the question so 
earnestly I can't help but feel guilty for 
having my doubts about the company. 
Glossing over my apprehensions, I tell 
him that it seems like a lot of Yale stu-
dents who get involved with College Pro 
are blinded by the tale of Max Rhodes, 
thinking they can easily duplicate his 
success. 

Nodding sincerely, with his warm 
brown eyes fixed on my own, he says, 
"Max Rhodes was the worst thing that 
could've happened to Yale students." 

If Cunliffe genuinely laments the ef-
fect that Rhodes' story has had on Yale 
students, he has done nothing to curb 
Rhodes from heavily recruiting for Col-
lege Pro Painters at Yale. 

For one, Rhodes was responsible for 
pitching the Yale Daily News article that 
ran in February 2009 - the same article 
that initially piqued my own interest in 
College Pro, along with a slew of other 
would-be entrepreneurs. An editor at the 
YDN who wishes to remain anonymous 
forwarded me an email Rhodes sent to 
the Yale Daily News on February 6th, 
2009. It reads: "My friend Kim Chow 
(then an editor ·at the YDN) recom-
mended that I speak to you about a story 
idea I have for the YDN. Last summer 
I worked as a Franchise Manager for a


--- Page 23 ---

company called College Pro Painters. Ba-
sically I ran ~ $227,854 exterior painting 
btisiness in the New Haven area. This year 
College Pro is undertaking a major recruit-
ing effort on campus." 

Ever the salesman, Rhodes goes on to 
cite four reasons he feels his experience 
would make an interesting article: "Col-
lege Pro has already hired 8 Yale students 
and has plans to hire as many as 12 more. 
I painted the houses of several Yale em-
ployees, including professor Paul Bloom 
and his wife Karen Wynn. I netted around 
$60,000 in total assets ($46,286 in cash). 
I think that's a pretty attention-grabbing 
figure. It's an unusual way for a Yalie to 
spend his or her summer, but with fewer 
options this year, it's a great alternative to 
more typical internships like investment 
banking or consulting." 

A subsequent email from Arnir Shari£ 
the YDN staffer who reported the Rhodes 
piece, to the YDN editors shows that 
Rhodes was hell-bent on making the ar-
ticle as prominent as possible. 

"Max Rhodes is really intent on having 
you give his story a crash course," Sharif writes. "I mentioned that a story with a picture maybe more visible, but they don't teach you how to tratn your many of whom have never painted ett er. 


The press worked: Rhodes alleges that 
he was directly responsible for the recruit-
ment of five out of the 14 Yale students 
who signed with College Pro for the sum-
mer of 2009. 

"The College Pro administration had 
us talk to Max before we signed," explains 
Tom, Frank Piasta's friend who made close 
to $0 in profit working as a Franchise 
Manager before closing out his business 
and helping Piasta paint for a few weeks. 
"He told us all about his successes." 

What Rhodes didn't mention when re-
cruiting other students, however, was that 
he would receive $1,000 from College Pro 
if someone he referred signed a contract 
with the company. College Pro makes 
most of its revenue off of franchisees book-
ing jobs and buying proprietary materials. 
It makes sense that the company would 
want to recruit and sign as many as pos-
sible. Why franchisees would want to sign 
with College Pro in the first place is an-
other question altogether. Paging through 
the Franchise Disclosure document that 
Cunliffe sent me after our meeting, I was 
amazed by the terms that signers agree to. 

February 2010

Franchisees must independently cover 
the costs of all of their painting materials, 
find their own means of transportation to 
job sites, and personally pay their paint-
ers. They must also pay College Pro for 
"proprietary" advertising materials such 
as signs, door knockers, uniforms, payroll 
services, direct mailing postcards sent to 
potential customers' houses and telephone 
answering service. Though they vary on 
a franchise-by-franchise basis, costs for 
opening a College Pro franchise can total 
over $10,000. 

In addition, when a franchisee signs a 
contract with College Pro, he or she agrees 
to give College Pro 20% of the revenues. If 
the franchisee's business exceeds $70,000 
in revenue, the percentage of "royalty 
fees," as the contract calls them, decreases. 
Even with that concession in mind, the 
figures in the Franchisee Disclosure docu-
ment suggest that College Pro often ends 
up making more money in royalties than 
the franchisee receives in earnings after 
covering all the costs related to his or her 
business. 

Perhaps the most worrisome article 
in the document is a non-disparage-
ment clause that prohibits the franchisee 
from "at any time, directly or indirectly, 
mak[ing] any statement, oral, written or 
electronic, or perform any act or omission 
which is or could be harmful or damaging 
in any material respect to the reputation or 
goodwill of College Pro or any other per-
son or entity related to College Pro." Cit-
ing this last clause as their reason, many 
of the Yale franchisees interviewed for this 
piece refused to speak on the record or de-
clined to speak at all. 

Though the non-disparagement clause 
is lawful, it can also have alarming conse-
quences. "The clause is quite broad and 
might well prevent students from telling 
other students if they have poor experi-
ences," says Ian Ayres, the William K. 
Townsend Professor at Yale Law School 
and a Professor at Yale's School of Man-
agement who specializes in contract law. 
"It might have a chilling effect on even 
legitimate whistle-blowing as franchisees 
would worry about whether blowing the 
whistle would expose them to legal liabil-
ity for disparagement." 

On top of all this, if a franchisee terminates 
the contract he is required to pay College 
Pro "expenses incurred in retraining a re-
placement franchisee, airfare, hotel, meals, 
telephone and any other direct expense as-
sociated with the re-training of the


--- Page 24 ---

replacement franchisee; postage, delivery 
or collection costs incurred in retrieving all 
information, manuals and materials from 
Franchisee; and reasonable attorney's fees 
incurred as a result of Franchisee's termina-
tion" or $4,000, depending on whichever 
figure is greater. 

The "State Cover Page," a sheet at the 
front of the Franchise Disclosure Docu-
ment that College Pro is required to in-
clude by Connecticut State Law, is no 
more comforting. "Please consider the fol-
lowing RISK FACTORS before you buy 
this franchise," the document warns, list-
ing six factors in capital lettering. Among 
the more startling articles are: 

2. AS A COLLEGE PRO FRANCHI-
SEE, YOU WILL BE REQUIRED TO 
PAY CERTAIN FEES TO COLLEGE PRO 
EVEN IF YOU HAVE NO REVENUE. 

3. APPROXIMATELY 118 FRANCHI-
SEES, OR 28% OF FRANCHISEES WHO 
SIGNED FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS 
FOR THE YEAR 2008, TERMINATED 
THE FRANCHISE BEFORE THE END 
OF THE FRANCHISE TERM. OF THE 
FRANCHISEES WHO COMPLETED 
THE FRANCHISE TERM, APPROXI-
MATELY 57% DID NOT MEET THE 
SALES TARGET WE ESTABLISHED, IN 
OUR DISCRETION, FOR FRANCHI-
SEES ... 

6. THERE MAY BE OTHER RISKS 
CONCERNING THIS FRANCHISE. 

According to Professor Ayres, the only 
benefits that College Pro is contractually 
bound to provide to its franchisees are a 
brand name and training. "There are many 
marketing schemes where the royalty of 
20o/o for· the brand name would be in the 
realm of reason," says Ayres, who is both 
a trained lawyer and economist. Take, for 
example, the Big Mac of all franchises: 
McDonald's. In addition to supplying 
its franchisees with a highly recognizable 
name and trusted products, McDonald's 
offers a rigorous training program called 
Hamburger University for all of its high-
er-level employees. College Pro Painters' 
brand recognizability and training regi-
men both fall short of McDonalds, yet 
their royalty fees exceed the chain's 12.5o/o 
royalty fees by 7.5%. Additionally, a sur-
vey sent to 21 Yale professors and admin-
istrators in various disciplines suggests that 
the name "College Pro Painters" might 
not be an advantage at all. Fourteen of the 
Yale employees surveyed asserted that they 
would not let College Pro Painters paint 
their houses. 

Many franchisees complain that the 
training provided by College Pro is also 
sub-par. Franchisees are required to attend 
a set of training sessions held in the Col-
lege Pro Painters headquarters, a converted 
industrial warehouse in Woburn, Massa-
chusetts. Cunliffe sees these four 8-hour 
classroom sessions held over weekends 
from February to June and 3-4 day paint-
ing workshop held in the field as the "big-
gest incentives that franchisees get from 
College Pro." It is during these meetings 
that the College Pro Painters staff attempts 
to teach franchisees everything there is to 
know about paint systems, paint failures, 
estimating, marketing, 'selling, interview-
ing, financial management, conflict resolu-
tion, scheduling, and logistical items franchisee's need to accomplish to properly set 
themselves up. Most of College Pro Paint-
ers' franchisees have never painted or run 
their own businesses before signing with 
College Pro, so it is up to the College Pro 
staff to educate them completely. 

Many of Yale's franchisees, however, 
complain that the training sessions did not 
do enough to prepare them for their work 
in the field. 

"There's no way you can teach someone 
everything about painting and running a 
business in a month, especially in a class-
room using power point slides," says Tyler 
Schied, another member of Yale's class of 
2009 who signed with College Pro Paint-
ers as a Franchise Manager last spring. 
Schied terminated his contract with Col-
lege Pro in April 2009, before ever paint-
ing a house, fearing that if he stuck out his 
term he would lose more money than he 
would by paying the $4,000 exit fee. "They 
give you crash courses on how to paint, 
but they don't teach you how to train your 
guys- many of whom have never painted 
either. 

Even those students who had more 
favorable experiences with College Pro 
when it came to knowing how to train 
kids who are their employees. Hyatt Bailey, a Yale student who made $10,000 working as a franchisee this past summer, remembers, "At first, production is such a mess. You barely know how to paint and then you have to train your painters when you don't really know anything yourself. All the while you have to keep your customers happy and make it seem like you know what you're doing." 

Bailey was so nervous about how un-
ready he felt for his first day of production 
that he stayed up until five in the morning 
reading articles on management strategies, 
trying to devise a game plan for how he 
was going to lead his painters. He was sup-
posed to wake up a mere hour later at six, 
but ended up sleeping until he got a call 
from his painters at nine-thirty. 

"I was like 'Oh my God!' In terms of 
leadership you don't really realize how bad 
it is until you're the boss. It's not just like 
an a capella group, or other school group 
where you're like 'sorry I'm late guys!' It's 
real life." 

Despite its manifold risks, College Pro's 
attraction is so powerful it even causes 
some Yalies to put painting before school. 
Despite his initial struggles to manage 
his painting crew, Bailey felt he gained so 
much from his experience as a franchisee 
that he is taking a leave of absence for 
the 2009-2010 academic year to work for 
College Pro. While College Pro Painters 
markets itself as a summer option, Bailey 
notes that franchisees must start marketing 
months before May if they are to book a 
solid number of jobs to produce over the 
summer. 

For College Pro franchisees, marketing 
consists mainly of "cold calling," or show-
ing up at homeowners' doors unannounced 
and inquiring whether they would like 
their house painted. New England is a 
prime area to be a painter since most of 
the houses are wood, and so require strip-
ping and repainting every five years. If left 
untouched for much longer than that, the 
wood under the peeling paint will begin to 
rot and the house might begin to leak, or 
even collapse. 

But even here, cold calling is not easy. 


**Title: The College Pro Conundrum**
**Author: Haley Cohen**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
New Haven, Bailey tells me how he spent 
all of his weekends in the spring knock-
. ing on doors trying to book jobs. If that 
was his only responsibility, he might have 
managed, but Bailey began marketing 
. while taking five courses and singing in 
one ofYale's. premier a cappella groups, the 
Baker's Dozen. 

"Needless to say, my academics suffered 
· a bit," he admits. "When I signed again for 
next summer, my dad didn't want me to be 
in school while I marketed so it was under-
stood that I would take the spring semester 
off. Then I decided to take the fall off as 
well to finish up my College Pro jobs from 
the summer." 

Other franchisees had less of an issue 
with the time management aspect of mar-
·keting than the ethical implications of sell-
ing a product they didn't believe in. 

"It's kind of sickening," says Dan Li, 
the Yale franchisee who terminated his 
contract with College Pro in June. "When 
I was marketing I had to go up to home 
owners with a shtick about helping college 
kids, when maybe I was a college kid but 
neither of my painters had ever been to 
college. One of them hadn't even gradu-
ated high··:school. And many of the paint-
ers are a lot older than your typical college 
kids." 

Tyler Schied, the Yale franchisee who 
quit before ever painting a house, agrees 
withLi. 

"Franchisees show up to the first day of 
production never having painted a day in 
their lives, with painters who have never 
painted a day in their lives, all the while 
marketing a 'professional' painting job," 
he says, the frustration rising in his voice. 
"College Pro is scamming kids that are 
scamming consumers. It's a total pyramid 
scheme top to bottom." 

At the bottom of that pyramid are the 
painters, most of whom were hired via 
Craigslist. According to Piasta and Bai-
ley, College Pro urges its franchisees to 
pay the painters $8 per hour, exactly the 
minimum wage in Connecticut, though 
many Yale franchisees report having pad-
ded their painters' salaries by a couple of 
dollars. 

If College Pro really is as exploitative 
as Schied and Li insisJ, it is interesting to 
consider what persuaded them and other 
Yale students to sign in the first place. 

"They never bring up the idea that 
you could fail at this, and that if you do 
February 20 1 0 
you could get yourself into a lot of debt," 
Schied explains angrily. "It's all in the con-
tract, but they gloss over all of the bad 
stuff so you're lulled into thinking, 'Oh 
man! My own little business. This is go-
ing to be fun!' All Jordan, the regional 
manager, does is paint this picture of Max 
Rhodes and how working for College Pro 
made him tons of money and won him his 
dream job at Bain. Of course my first in-
stinct was 'Where do I sign?'" 

Piasta points out that Yalies are par-
ticularly susceptible to the College Pro 
myth. "Corning out of Yale, you feel like 
because you're smart you'll be able to make 
everything work out," he says. "Yale kids 
inherently believe that they are incapable 
of actually failing at anything." 

Like Schied and Piasta, many Yale stu-
dents signed contracts with College Pro 
feeling confident that they could duplicate 
Max Rhodes' success. So far, none have 
come close, which raises the question: just 
how did Max Rhodes pull off what he did? 

Over the course of October and No-
vember, Rhodes and I exchange six sets of 
emails, each with him promising to call 
me or answer my questions by email and 
apologizing profusely for being a "bad 
. 
.. 
)) 
Interviewee. 

I resort to tracking Rhodes on "Around 
the World in 100 Days," the blog he 
started (username: MaxtheYaliePainter) 
with his girlfriend to document their 
travels. Rhodes is handsome in an elfin 
sort of way - with high cheekbones, a 
devilish grin, and a haircut that looks like 
someone put a bowl over his blonde mop· 
and trimmed away what protruded. I flip 
through photos of the two lovebirds driv-
ing a rental car on the Autobahn, castle 
hopping in Prague and putting back pints 
ofbeer in Budapest. On October 14th, 
the couple stop blogging, but from o_ur 
email correspondence I know the pair also 
made it to D~lhi and Agra in India. 

Traveling the world with his girlfriend, 


--- Page 26 ---

returned, Rhodes was living the dream of 
many Yale students. He just couldn't be 
• 
: bothered to talk about it. 

Since I couldn't pin down Rhodes him-
set£ I settled for talking to his Franchise 
:.Manager disciples, and to his customers. 
·}3oth groups agree that Rhodes' success is 
not undeserved. They testify that Rhodes 
: 
'w.orked 10-12 hour days and managed at 
least three crews of two to four painters 
~ at all points during the summer. By the 
end <?f the term he had painted 
or in 
,,.co~pany jargon, "produced" 
about 70 
r.houses, as compared to Bailey's 40 and 
;-Piasta's 12. _He's just ravenous," remarked 
. Schied. 

Rhodes also gets rave reviews from ho-
':meowners whose houses he painted. 
"Max was the most professional painter 
~ I ever worked with," says Jack Hitt, a 
_ freelance writer who owns a house on 
-East Rock road, one of the nicest streets 
in New Haven. "He was a crisp, well-
natured business man and a brilliant com-
. -municator. He· made a few mistakes but 
' was immediate to correct them." 

As I stand watching Piasta and Tom 
pack up their materials into Piasta's fam-
ily's minivan, which he had decorated 
with a College Pro Painters decal, I imag-
ine what I would be like as a College 
Pro Paintersfranchisee; I picture myself 
-in paint-blotched jeans, my Blackberry 
constantly vibrating as customers called to 
check in or complain. I envision waking 
up at five in the morning to run to the 
paint store and distribute the cans among 
my crews by seven. I imagine how my feet 
would ache after standing for 12 hours a 
, and how awful it would feel to fire a 
pamter. 

I sense myself being sucked in by the 
challenge of succeeding at something 
where so many have failed, the possibility 
that I could be the next Max Rhodes. 
I could do this. I catch myself thinking. 
Frank begins to descend from his perch 
on the ladder when suddenly the sole 
of one of his Timberlands slips, and he 
misses a rung. The ladder momentarily 
comes off the side of the building before 
clattering back against the house. 
"Close call," I say, and mean it. 
TN 
Haley Cohen is a junior in Davenport Col-
lege. She is a managing editor ofTNJ 
26 




**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Jake Conway**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• • 
• 
~ 
I
One player remembers feeling left out of the huddle. 
. 
It was August and hot. The air teemed with 
the testosterone-fueled excitement of pre-
season. I had signed up for my West Hart-
ford public high school's football team 
with about fifty other freshmen, who, like 
myself, had been coaxed into helmets and 
pads by nostalgic fathers and then prod-
ded into huddles by even more nostalgic 
coaches. I was terrified, but eager to prove 
mysel£ 
Some of the other players on the· team 
had been hiking footballs since the Pee 
Wees, but this was my first time on the 
field. I didn't even know the positions or 
the rules. Though I quickly committed 
those to memory, it quickly became clear 
how little I really knew about the game 
when I found myself week after week on 
the ground, breathless and coughing up 
dirt. 
Football, I soon learned, was about 
a different set of rules. It was not about 
knowing that a safety earned two points 
or that a touchback meant that the offense 
received the ball at the 20-yard line. Rath-
er, it was about the preening and prancing My tendency my need 
in the locker-room, the spit-in-your-face 
fall b k 
football 
trash-talk at the watering hole, the con- to 
ac 
on 
gratul~tory-but-all-too-demeaning 
slaps reflects the misconception ~ 
on the ass in huddle, the misogynistic and • 
h 
homophobic epithet-hurling on the side- tn our soctety t at equates ~ 
lines. It was, in short, about the codes of masculinity with hetero-
being a man, the semiotics of manhood. 
at• 
n 
Each jaw-dropping juke, each explosive 
SeXU tty . 
hit, each perfect spiral shapes our idealized 
notions about masculinity, our expecta-
tions of how 
and who 
a man should 
be. 

But I didn't have dreams of becoming 
a star quarterback, of leading my team to 
state championships, trophy on one arm, 
prom queen on the other. No, football was 
something much less romantic for me. I 
was gay and closeted. 

I never fully subscribed to the style and 
protocols of my teammates. I did not par-
ticipate in the sexist banter or the postur-
ing, I hid from the fiercest coaches, and I 
left immediately after practice was over to 
avoid the locker-room towel snapping-
sweaty, dirt-caked and unshowered. I took 
pains to remove myself from any situation 
where my masculinity might be scruti-
nized and where my true feelings might 
be exposed. I spent most of my time with 
the team trying to forget I was there in the 
hope that everyone else would, too. 

This is not to say that I was miserable 
throughout the season. I enjoyed the com-
petition of the sport and the opportunity 
it provided for me to stay in shape. But 
when I signecl up again sophomore year, 
I doubt it was the sprints, or the cama-
raderie, or our nearly undefeated season 
that compelled me to keep playing. More 


likely, it was the fas;ade of normalcy that 
playing football allowed me to present. Ev-
eryday after school that I suited up in pads 
and ran out on the field ensured that my 
manliness 
and, by extension, my sexual-
ity 
could not be questioned-off the field. 

When I came out to my straight male 
friends from high school during my fresh-
man year of college, one of them remarked 
that any speculation about my sexual ori-
entation was quelled by my membership 
on the team. Football had been my closet. 
Football still has, in my mind, an intoxi-
cating allure. It has become my point of 
retreat, my place of solace. 
It's my de-
fense mechanism. Whenever I feel that my 
manliness has been called into question, 
_ whenever I hear a homophobic remark or 
am unfairly stereotyped, I conjure up my 
football days. "You think I'm weak? You 
think I'm a sissy? Are you calling me a fag-
got? Let me tell you something," I imagine · 
myself saying. "I played football in high 
school." Every time my voice slips into af-
fect, or I profess my love for Lady Gaga, 
wear deep v-neck t-shirts, or spend just a 
moment too long shopping for shoes, it's 
okay, I r~mind those present, because "I 
..... 
played football in high school." 

I have to admit, I'm reminding myself, 
too. I refer to my high school football days 
with such frequency that it has become an 
inside joke among my friends. After all, I 
had only played for two years and never 
even made it to varsity. But though my 
friends and I kid about my frequent refer-
ences to my football days, ~omethirig se-
rious underlies them: my insecurities and 
the societal constructs that helped produce 
them. My tendency 
my need 
to fall 
back on football reflects the misconcep-
tion in our society that equates masculin-
ity with heterosexuality. 

I only understand my repeated allusion to 
my high school football days in terms of 
a combination of pride and self-loathiJ?.g. 
Pride for the small rebellions I unleash 
against heteronormativity every time I 
strut into the gym with my high school 
football sweatshirt on, mentioning all of 
the squats and the deadlifts and the tackle 
drills and the suicides that I did; pride for 
the knowledge that I -defy stereotypes, that 
I contribute a modicum of "normality" to 
an identity all too often deemed abnormal. 

But also self-loathing. Self-loathing for 
February 20 10 
defining myself in terms of an arbitrary 
notion of normal; for thinking about how 
manly I appear to others every -time I walk 
down the street with another man's hand 
in my own, or dance with a man at Toad's, . 
or sleep with a man; self-loathing for the 
knowledge that I am undeniably differ-
ent no matter how hard I hit, how much 
I benched, how fast I ran a 40-meter split. 
·rm gay whether or not I played football 
in high school. Nothing can change that, 
not even a two-year stint of heavy-hitting, 
or rough-and-ready cover. What really 
matters then is not that I played football, 
but that I don't play it anymore. I left that 
locker-room and unsuited those pads a 
long time ago. And I am all the more a · 
man for it. 

TN 
jake Conway is a junior in Davenport Col-
lege. 


**Title: Jeggings: Imposter of the Year**
**Author: Laura Zax**
**Page number(s): 30**

e . ear war 
·By Laura Zax 
' 
~:-:-
. {. . 
1he New ]ou,~nal is proud to announce that the award for Imposter of the Year goes to ... 
Jeggings! 

The New Journal explains why this new fashion trend swept the competition by a unanimous vote . 


1. First of all, the alias. Throw around the word jeggings 
a slippery elision of the words "jeans" and "leggings" 
and you'll get 
quizzical looks. Yet jeggings are everywhere among us. Jeggings, 1 point. Us, 0. 
2. Nice try, Proteus. Jeggings are the consummate shape-shifters. Got junk in the trunk? Suffering from the vitamin deficiency 
no':l5satall? Jeggings are capable of assuming any and every form. 
3. How can so little material sell itself for so much money? Designer jeggings go for $200 +, pulling off an economic scam to 
make Bernie Madoff blush 
yeah, that's why he turns red when he sees a girl in a pair of skin-tight jeggings. 
4. These tight-fitters fit in anywhere. They're as at home at home as they are at the club, as good for lounging around as for getting 
around at the lounge. Not even the skort could pull off a hat 
I mean, pant 
trick like that . 
5. Remember the good old days when a wolf in sheep's clothing was just a wolf in sheep's clothing? Jeggings escape such neat 
scientific classification. Experts still can't agree upon whether these pants are jeans dressed up as leggings or leggings dressed up as 
jeans. Indeed, it is unclear whether jeggings are pants at all. 
Congratulations, jeggings. We can pull you up. We can put you on. But we can't seem to pin you down. 



**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
~----- · ------~-------. ~ 
~"=-··.'-;..,__~----
3~ ; -
t 
~ 
.
-~--.·----------- •
-
('(') 
0 -
0 
N 
..0 


**Page number(s): 32**


