Publication date: April 10, 1992
Volume: 24
Issue number: 5


**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Sarah DiJulio
- Editor-in-Chief: Kathy Reich
- Managing Editor: Emily Bazelon
- Senior Editor: Erik Meers
- Business Manager: Tina Asmuth
- Designer: Annerte Kirchner
- Production Manager: Jay Porter
- Photography Editor: Valerie Burgher
- Associate Publisher: Kathleen Weyman
- Associate Editors: Joel Tesoro, Charlotte Brooks
- Associate Designer: Beth Zasloff
- Subscription Manager: Yoshi Inoue
- Staff: Kate Brewster • Masi Denison • Susan Dominus • Julie Freedman • Jason Gilbert• Sonya Joo* • Julian Ku Caitlin Macy • Savannah Neely David Suisman• Seija Tupasela*
- *elected April 4, 1992
- Members and Directors: Edward B. Bennett III • Constance Clement • Peter B. Cooper • Andy Court • Brooks Kelley Patricia Pierce • Fred Strebeigh • Thomas Strong
- Friends: Anson M. Beard, Jr. • Edward B. Bennet, Jr. • Edward B. Bennet Ill • Blaire Bennet • Gerald Bruck • Jonathan M. Clark Louise F. Cooper • Peter B. Cooper • Jerry and Rae Court • David Freeman • Geoffry Fried • Sherwin Goldman • John Hersey Brooks Kelley • Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr. Lewis E. Lehrman • E. Nobles Lowe • Peter Neill • Julie Peters • Fairfax C. Randal Nicholas X. Rizopoulos • Arleen and Arthur Sager • Dick and Debbie Sears • Richard Shields • Thomas Strong • Elizabeth Tate Alex and Betsy Torello • Allen and Sarah Wardell • Daniel Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- About This Issue
- Newsjournal: Building Beinecke To Heal the Hill
- Between the Vines: Exhibitionist Entertainment - Andrea Moed
- Afterthought: Tipping the Scales - Nina Morrison
- Captive Audience? - Seija Tupasela
- Quinnipiac's Guardian Angel - Susan Dominus
- Doodle Dynasty - Peter Seibel
- Unbalanced Equation - Savannah Neely
- Dwight Hall: The Spirit of service - Jolie Taublieb
- Shattered Lives - Emily Bazelon


**Title: About This Issue**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Between the Vines: Exhibitionist Entertainment**
**Author: Andrea Moed**
**Page number(s): 7**



**Title: Afterthought: Tipping the Scales**
**Author: Nina Morrison**
**Page number(s): 28**



**Title: Captive Audience?**
**Author: Seija Tupasela**
**Page number(s): 10**


**Title: Quinnipiac's Guardian Angel**
**Author: Susan Dominus**
**Page number(s): 12**



**Title: Doodle Dynasty**
**Author: Peter Seibel**
**Page number(s): 16**



**Title: Unbalanced Equation**
**Author: Savannah Neely**
**Page number(s): 18**



**Title: Dwight Hall: The Spirit of service**
**Author: Jolie Taublieb**
**Page number(s): 20**



**Title: Shattered Lives**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 22**



**Title: About This Issue**
**Author: KDR**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In April, Yale students can become
myopic. As seniors obsess over
essays, as juniors juggle seminar
papers, and as all students struggle
with exams, we have little time or
energy to face the outside world. By
putting the issue of family violence on
our cover, we hope to bring people out
of their weenie bins to consider the
realities of their community. We have
compiled the:.e women's stories to
make people think. Battering happens
to women everywhere-across the
lines of class, race, and education. It
happens to women at Yale.

Family violence is not the only
article in this issue that concentrates
on New Haven rather than Yale.
Whether we write about community
advocates or everyone's favorite neigh-
borhood diner,
Th~ N~w journal
reaches out· to New Haven, hoping to
learn from and learn about its inner
workings.

From the Quinnipiac
Terrace Housing Project to Hillhouse
High School, the city offers vital
glimpses of life beyond the Ivory
Tower-all the more crucial in a place
like Yale, where we often lose sight of
everything but Sterling Memorial
Library.

The last weeks of school will slip
by before we know it, and we want to
take this opportunity to thank all the
seniors (and our one graduate student)
who have literally taught us everything
we know. Best of luck to Anna, Jenn,
Katherine, Joey, Masi, Sue, and
Dave--we know that you.r talents will
be appreciated wherever you go.

As for the rest of us, we have our
next issue to plan. We're holding a
meeting on Monday, April 13 at 7:30
in our office in the basement of
Calhoun under Entry F to discuss
TN]s summer issue. If you're interest-
ed in writing, photography, design,
layout, or selling ads, please attend or
call Kathy at 436-1441.
-KDR
APRIL 10, 1991


**Title: Building Beinecke**
**Author: Rosita Choy**
**Page number(s): 5**

the old books and manuscripts, and
798 screened bulbs illuminate the
books within the cower.
A harem bathing chamber in
Istanbul inspired the design of the
Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript
Library. Gordon Bunshaft, the build-
ing's architect, constructed the original
miniature model of the library with
side panels of Peruvian onyx in an
attempt to reproduce the chamber's
tan glow.
A collection that now consists of
500,000 volumes and several million
manuscripts traces its origins to a back
shelf that English literature Professor
Chauncey Brewster Tinker, known as
the first "Keeper of Rare Books",
began in the main library, housed at
the time in Dwight Hall. In 1930, the
university transferred the collection to
the Rare Book Room of the new
Sterling Memorial Library. Officials
requested a separate building in 1958
wh'en the collection expanded beyond
capacity. A donation of several mil-
lion dollars from the Beinecke family
enabled Yale to make plans for a new
facility.
Bunshaft continued to draw on
foreign models for the exterior of the
building, this time from France. To
complement the Neo-Classical and
Gothic
buildings that surround
Beinecke, he stylized the building's
surface to match those of Commons
and Woolsey Hall and copied a box-
like structure from a Gothic library in
Rouen to harmonize it with the Law
School and Berkeley College.
Mixed reactions greeted the final
result. "There is no excuse for putting
this brute of modern design in the
midst of gracious and beautiful build-
ings," fumed one architect and Yale
alumnus in a letter to then Yale
President A. Whitney Griswold. At
the same time, an article from The
Times of London proclaimed, "The
whole spatial conception is one of
remarkable simplicity, which the
severely classical exterior expresses."
The number of opinions around
the building's design matches the
many legends that have sprung up
around Beinecke. One popular tale
concerns the fire-extinguishing system
that seals off sections of the library and
pumps in gas co smother the flames.
Officials stopped using carbon dioxide
after employees voiced safety concerns.
"There were red signs saying clear the
area within one minute," explained
Christa Sammons, Beinecke Library's
Public Relations Officer. "Carbon
dioxide makes the voice drop an
octave and causes headaches but is not
incompatible with life." The system
now uses halon, a safer gas.
The library's underground level,
divided into sections like a submarine
for further fire protection, houses
bookstacks for an additional 600,000
volumes. Offices and a reading room
surround a sunken courtyard that
Bunshaft modeled after the medieval
cloister scriptorium. He filled the
space with sculpture instead of plant-
ing to reduce the danger of water seep-
age into the books below.
Bunshaft chose Isamu Noguchi as
the sculptor. As buildings in the
Middle East and Europe inspired the
architect, South Asian structures pro-
vided a model for the sculptor.
Noguchi carved Imperial Danby mar-
ble into shapes reminiscent of huge
astronomical viewing instruments he
had seen in Jaipur, India. He created a
sphere to represent the sun or cosmic
energy, a pyramid to symbolize the
geometry of the earth or of the past,
and a cube to signify chance.
Bunshaft once wrote that he want-
ed to dramatize the rare book collec-
tion's importance in a building that
stands in the heart of the Yale campus.
Even Beinecke's detractors must admit
that he fulfilled that goal. The library's
striking
design
provoked
Yale
Corporation member Wilmarth S.
Lewis to declare in his dedication
address in 1963, "Nobody at Yale can
be unaware of the Beinecke Library,
and it will be a very incurious scholar
who will not venture inside it at least
once.
-Rosita Choy
APRIL 10, 1992


**Title: To Heal the Hill**
**Author: Michael Rubin**
**Page number(s): 6**

"The Hill Health Center is not an
umbrella for other organizations, but
rather an octopus," said Alderwoman
Toni Harp (0-2). The center, located
just beyond the Yale Medical School,
extends its tentacles into New Haven's
social fabric to address a variety of the
Elm City's special needs.

In 1968, a group of Yale Med stu-
dents founded the clinic on a
shoestring budget to care for people in
the Hill, one of the most economically
troubled areas of New Haven. Today,
the Hill Health Center (HHC) serves
120,000 patients a year with a staff of
200 and has branches in Dixwell and
at the Jackie Robinson Middle School.

HHC's bilingual staff supplies a
wide variety of basic medical services
to the community, from treating chil-
dren's cavities co delivering babies.
The clinic provides free medical care
for welfare recipients and a sliding rate
scale for other patients. Federal, state,
and local governments cover two-
thirds of expenses, and patient fees
make up the balance.

The center has launched efforts to
mitigate acute New Haven problems
like under-employment, AIDS, home-
lessness, and drug abuse. HHC also
runs the Senior AIDES Program,
which places elderly New Haven resi-
dents in jobs at non-profit organiza-
tions. "Senior citizens supplement
their often restricted incomes," said
Harp. "They also feel useful con-
tributing to the community."

To combat the growing problem
of teenage pregnancy in New Haven,
the clinic sponsors the Young Parents'
Outreach Program that provides spe-
cial care for pregnant teens and enables
them to stay in school. The Healthy
Start Program oversees pre-natal ser-
vices, while the Hispanic Mothers
Outreach offers bilingual counseling
for entire families. HHC provides
pregnancy testing and assigns social
workers to pregnant women. Even if
these women do not return to the cen-
ter, the social workers makes sure chat
they continue to receive care.

HHC doctors do not perform
abortions, although the center pro-
vides pregnancy counseling. In viola-
cion of the gag rule, counselors still
discuss all options with patients.
"Despite the government's intentions,
the rule has not changed our actual
operation," said Harp.

AIDS poses another challenge for
the center. "It's alarming to see how
HIV has entered 'new' populations
like women and especially teenagers in
the past year," said Steven Ingram, the
Director of AIDS Outreach at HHC.
Ingram's AIDS program focuses spe-
cial attention on New Haven youth,
striving to change high-risk behavior.
"I honestly believe chat most young
people are aware of how AIDS is
spread," said Ingram. "But even if they
don't use drugs, many still have unpro-
tected sex." Aside from its health edu-
cation programs, HHC provides med-
ical care and support for 500 AIDS
patients in New Haven.

"In New Haven, crises com-
pound," said Alderwoman Escher
Armand (D-7). "Substance abuse has
always been a significant problem. But
coupled with the loss of jobs, drug and
alcohol addiction has been on the
rise." Addressing chis increase, HHC
plans to open a 25-bed detoxification
center on Cedar Street later chis
spring. "We hope to provide accessibil-
ity to detox for all people, regardless of
their ability to pay," explained
Armand. "We need to take the pres-
sure off the emergency room."

HHC plans to continue providing
vital medical; psychological, and social
services to the New Haven communi-
ty. Imminent cuts in Connecticut's
General Assistance and Aid to Families
with Dependent Children programs,
however, will further burden the cen-
ter. "Without these subsidies, people
will not be able to afford the basic
necessities essential co maintaining
good health." explained Harp. "The
threatened cuts won't make our mis-
sion any easier, but we'll survive."
-Michael Rubin



**Title: Exhibitionist Entertainment**
**Author: Andrea Moed**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
APRIL 10, 1992
was time to give 
somebody else a 
turn. I sighed 
as two burly 
men 
grabbed 
me by the cor-
ners of my bor-
rowed 
Velcro 
suit, and peeled 
me 
off chat 
; fuzzy surface. If only Velcro 
Jumping Thursdays at Bahama 
Bob's could last forever. 


Decades after disco's 
hundreds of America's Funniest Home Videos and dreamed 
of getting their own public access cable shows, just like 
Wayne and Garth of \%yms World. 
But unfortunately, we can't all have our 15 minutes of 
fame right away. For local exhibitionists who haven't yet hit 
the airwaves, the new karaoke singing and "challenge" bars 
have become the adrenaline oudet of choice, and New 
Haven is their newest mecca. Come the weekend, Yalies 
and townies alike flock to the clubs just to make complete 
fools of themselves. 


In the early hours of the evening, as sane people finish 
their happy hour buffets, dedicated jumpers arrive at 
Bahama Bob's to assure their places in line and check out 
the terrain. Already, the Velcro pit crew has marked off the 
field with "CAUTION!" tape and has started handing out 
"consent" forms to sign. No one needs to tell these adven-
turers that they will be courting injury or death. The forms 
warn them of a more gruesome fate: their names and pho-
tos may someday be used in sponsors' promotions. If you 
can't overcome the fear of publicity, you clearly don't belong 
in the game. Besides, the rewards make jumping worth-
while-cash prizes for the best jumps, complementary cas-
setces, and waitresses spraying alcohol into the crowd from 
pump bottles. All because, as an emcee reminds us, we're at 
It was Letterman who first let people 
in on the joy of acting goofy in front 
of hordes ofstrangers, and now they 
just can't get enough. 
the 
only 
place 
in 
town 
whece 
"YOU 
can 
stick. .. YOURself...TO A WALL!!!" 


But first comes another daunting challenge-that of 
keeping amused for the hour before the jumping starts. 
When the thrill of sitting around, drinking, and watching 
TV wears off. the surrounding neighborhood offers ample 
opportunity for fun. Right down the block, you can find a 
musical playground at Play It Again 
Sam. Sam's, a piano bar with a mis-
sion, offers its guests the chance to 
grab the spotlight without even 
putting down their drinks. On a 
raised p latform in the center of the 
room stands the central attraction: the 
dueling (or dual-ing, as it is mispelled 
on the bar's marquee) pianos. At two 
facing baby grands sit two Sams, ready 
to play it again, or play it a third time, 
or play any tune that's catchy. They 
perform tag-team style: as Sam One 
bangs out the song on his piano, Sam 
Two pounds a rhythm on his, while 
shaking a tambourine with aerobic 
intensity. Switching back and forth, 
they provide high-octane, if not virtu-
osic, renditions of "Day-0," "All 
Shook Up," and other party-starters. 
And, wouldn't you know it, they seem 
to have memorized every Billy Joel hit 
ever written. 


B 
ut these Piano Men aren't con-
tent to just sing. They want us 
to sing right back at them-not 
meekly, but like we mean it. From the 
club's walls not-so-subliminal messages 
scream, "Clap my hands and shout ... 
Kick up my heels and SHOUT!" and 
the Sams have 
apparently 
sworn 
to 
uphold 
house rules if it 
kills 
them. 
First, 
they 
appeal to us 
college 
kids, 
teasmg out sev-
eral classic rock 
songs 
with 
constant audi-
ence prompts. 
"All in all it's 
just 
a-
WHAT?-
Another Brick 
in the Wall!" 
scream 
both 
Sams in uni-
son, evoking Ethel Merman far more 
than Pink Floyd. Next they try dirty 
versio~s of Beatles songs, hoping we'll 
chime in on the naughty words. 
"Desmond takes a trolley to the jewel-
er's store," adlibs a Sam, "Buys a pack 
of condoms for a buck/ Takes it back 
to Molly waiting at the door/ And as 
he gives it to her they begiJl to ... 
To ... ?" Silence. 


Later, in the middle of the Village 
People's "In the Navy," some frat guys 
finally deign to scream back a c~orus. 
The Sams, visibly pleased, seize the 
moment to segue into an upbeat Billy 
Joel standby. Unfortunately, almost 
no one else.picks up on this burst of 
enthusiasm. After turning around to 
see who the show-offs are, the other 
patrons go back to stirring their drinks 
and humming. By this point, Sam 
One has had about all he can take. 
Wondering aloud whether we're all 
just sissies or something, he launches 
into a classic called "There's a Skeeter 
On My Peter, Wackin' Off." More 
silence.. "Maybe you don't care," Sam 
sniffs, "but I do!" 


Back at Bob's, the crowd has 
swelled and anticipation is building. 
The emcee, however, appears to be 
having a crisis. After bantering on 
about the joys of Velcro for over an 
hour, he's running out of things co say. 
As the contestants suit up and fling 
themselves at the surface, all he can do 
is fixate inanely on their names: "This 
Next they try dirty 
versions of Beatles songs, 
hoping we'll chime in on 
the naughty words. 
is Quick Vic. Will Quick Vic stick? 
Quick Vic stick? Q uick Vic W ILL 
stick!" Maybe he's gone into an infi-
nite loop-if so, no one is paying 
attention. Not only that, but after a 
few minutes, no one watches the 
jumping anymore, either. As at Sam's, 
the anticlimax is heartbreaking. That 
person spread-eagled up there on the 
wall probably waited all week for this, 
the most embarrassing moment of his 
life so far. And now, he might as well 
be the "Where's Waldo" guy, for all the 
attention he's getting. What's the deal 
here, anyway? 


Maybe, like with TV 
car crashes, prolonged exposure to odd 
public behavior desensitizes us to it. 
Or maybe "challenge" bar-hopping is 
like any supervised play period-when 
it's not your turn on the swings or the 
slide, it's just another long line to 
stand in. 

li1J 
Andr~a Mo~d is a unior in Pi~rson 


**Title: Captive Audience?**
**Author: Seija Tupasela**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
F
or a week-long series called "Popular Culture: Inside 
Hollywood," teenage hosts interview the producers of 
Final Analysis and Waynt"s World about the movie 
business. The 12-minute broadcast closes with advertise-
ments for Ooritos and Pop-Tarrs, and then flashes back co a 
"Facing the Future" question for its viewers: "Is it okay for 
mothers of high school students to have full-rime jobs?" 
T he program appears not on MTV, but on Channel 
One, an educational nerwork that broadcasts to over 9000 
high schools across the country, including New Haven's 
Hillhouse High School. At Hillhouse, the show airs at 7:50 
a.m. and receives little more than a glance from students 
who trickle into class early. Those who have been half-lis-
tening laugh at the notion that mothers of high school stu-
dents don't work. At an inner cicy school like Hillhouse, the 
question has little relevance. 

When Superintendent of Schools John Dow, Jr. first 
introduced Channel One to Hillhouse hsr spring, it sparked 
a great deal of controversy among teachers. Some objected to 
the advertisements, while ochers argued over when to air the 
program so that it would not disrupt the school day. 

Hillhouse Principal Lonnie Garris, Jr. counts himself 
among Channel One's fans. He believes that the benefits of 
the program outweigh irs shortcomings. "Channel One 
Commt"rcial 7V prt"cuks homttroom at Hillhouu High School. 
10 THE NEW jOURNAL 
provides far- reaching opportunities," he said. "We have 
only begun to realize its potentiaL" His enthusiasm seems in 
part from the recognition that by broadcasting Channel 
One, his resource-starved school can get extra funding and 
equipment. In exchange for the permission co broadcast irs 
programs on a daily basis, the Whircle Educational Nerwork 
gives schools televisions, videocassette recorders, and satel-
lite dishes. Teachers and administrators can take advantage 
of the television monitors to broadcast announcements and 
videos. "Channel One's beauty is the way in which the 
school can use the equipment," said Hillhouse English 
teacher Sandra Friday. 

But other teachers express skepticism about the use of 
TV in education. Chemistry teacher Lise Orville chose 
not co allow a Channel One monitor in her homeroom 
because she feels chat commercial television has no place 
in the school. "I chink students watch too much television, 
period," Orville said. "I find it distracting." 

Even reachers who like the program don't believe chat 
ads belong in a school setting. "Although I suppon Channel 
One, I don't like the ads," admitted social studies reacher 
Dr. Burt Saxon. "Getting Channel One for free with ads is a 
Faustian bargain." 

Whittle representatives point our char ads, which 
appear for two out of twelve minutes of each broadcast, 
make the news program possible. "When the Berlin Wall 
fell, we were there. When Nelson Mandela was released 
from prison in South Africa, we were there," said Hicks 
Neal, an ancho r correspondent for Channel One. "To 
fi nance these lcinds of trips, we need a lor of money." To 
Neal, the benefits of international news coverage offset che 
negative implications of advertising in schools. 

By presenting news in a format that appeals co high 
schools students, Channel One hopes to catch the attention 
of its audience long enough co get across crucial bites of 
informacion. And with global coverage, the nerwork claims 
that it can prepare American students for an increasingly 
interconnected world. "We're helping to make the world a 
litcle bit smaller," said Neal. 

To calm the initial storm that erupted over its decision 
to air Channel One during the school day, the Hillhouse 
administration chose to air the program before homeroom. 
Many administrators regard homeroom as the ideal rime co 
APRIL 10, 1992 


--- Page 11 ---

watch C hannel One, but teachers need that time to take 
in exchange for much-needed funds, the business sector will 
attendance and listen to announcements over the public 
expect to dictate the direction of American education in the 
address system. Broadcasting the program later in the day 
future. "I fear the result of corporate intervention will be 
would disrupt classes. As a result of the early-bird time slot, 
schools that just produce workers," said Saxon. 

Experts like MacMullen question the motives behind 
the business community's newfound interest.in public 
schools. "If the business community is interested in public 
education only because it chinks of students as products and 
their educational needs in terms of economic competition, 
then we have reason to worry," she warned. 

The actual impact of Channel One on Hillhouse stu-
dents does not seem to live up to detractors' fears. Because 
most students hang out in the hallways instead of flocking 
to the TV monitors, few watch the program enough for it 
to exert much influence upon them. 

But supporters' hopes for the network fall short as well. 
The students interviewed who watch Channel One do not 
pay more attention to the show's content because of its slick 
format. As a result, any exposure to current events that stu-
dents gain from the broadcast is minimal. English teacher 
Friday, who has a television in her homeroom, does not 
think that Channel One has caught on with most students. 
"My impression is that some of the students watch it, but 
not eagerly," she said. 

Although students on the whole greet Channel One 
with indifference, when they do comment on the program 
they mention its format-not the news inside the package. 
While the program's stated purpose of educating students 
is virtually unnoticed, its hosts 
and ads successfully appeal to 
their audience. One student, 
who says he watches Channel 
One occasionally, does not 
think the program helps him 
find out more about world 
events. "It's okay," he said with 
a shrug. "I like the kids that 
do the show. And I like the 


Some teachers approve of Channel One because it tries 
to keep students informed about current events. Many of 
the students at Hillhouse come from families that do not 
encourage kids to read the newspaper or watch television 
news programs. Teachers appreciate Channel One's attempt 
to address this deficiency. "The news is current and makes 
students aware of what's happening around the world," said 
history teacher Mark Gould, the Hillhouse coordinator of 
Channel One. "It's geared to their level." 

Those who object to Channel One, however, criticize 
the program for talking down to students. With its teenage 
hosts, simplified language, and ads that target adolescents, 
Channel One reflects America's lowered expectations of its 
students. "The format of Channel One is the kind of for-
mat that dominates the media already. Everything is given 
to students in short snippets," said Edith MacMullen, direc-
tor of the Teacher Preparation program at Yale. "I think it's 
demeaning to kids that we nee;d~to~~~~~m~ak~e~si~m~p~le~· ...... ...:a::b:o~u~t~im:.:.!:::::.::.:~.:.:.:.::::::..!~
and lower the standards for 
them to learn. We should be 
challenging them instead. 
Complexity is not limited to 
a few people at Yale." 

Educators' concern over 
Channel One's introduction 
of corporate advertising into 
schools reflects a deeper fear. 
As the Federal government 
withdraws support from 
public education, big busi-
ness is picking up some of 
the tab. Educators worry that 
ArRlL 10, 1992 
TH£ NEW jOURNAL II 


--- Page 12 ---

Virginia Hmry difmds h~r housing proj~ct against drug tkakrs and "al ~stau tkv~lop~ alik~. 


**Title: Quinnipiac's Guardian Angel**
**Author: Susan Dominus**
**Page number(s): 12**

ive a.m. finds Virginia Henry siccing on a bench, read-
ing the paper, and waiting for the bus that will take 
her from her home on the Quinnipiac River in 
Fairhaven to downtown New Haven. By 7:00 she's cleaning 
in Jonathan Edwards College, where she has worked for the 
past four years. When her workday ends at 1 :30, she heads 
home to Quinnipiac Terrace, her public housing develop-
ment, to relax, make dinner, and spend time with her 
daughter, her grandchildren, and whoever else might stop 
by. 

Tenants who want anything from advice regarding an 
12 
TH£ NEw JouRNAL 
eviction notice to a little neighborhood gossip find their way 
to Henry's small three-room unit, where plaques on the wall 
proclaim her success as a community leader recognized in 
New Haven political circles. As the head of the Quinnipiac 
Terrace Tenant Task Force, Henry enjoys elder status in her 
community. "She fights for us when we need it," says Edna 
DuBose, another tenant on _the task force. "The only help 
we've got is her." 

Henry's slow, soft drawl belies her reputation as the per-
sistent fighter who led a grassroots campaign to combat 
drugs and who organized the tenants to protest a private



**Virginia Henry: The Battle for Quinnipiac Terrace**
**Author: Susan Dominus**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
takeover of Quinnipiac. "With Virginia, it's always, 'Yes, 
but .. .'" says former congressman Bruce Morrison. "You 
could say, 'Virginia, we just got $ 12 million for Quinnipiac 
Terrace,' and she'd say, 'Yes, I appreciate that, bur what 
about this, and what are you going to do about that?' That 
kind of energy and persistence makes her as successful as she 
... 
IS. 

Morrison and H enry allied in 1988 to prevent New 
York developer Aaron Gleich from buying Quinnipiac. 
Gleich promised to provide Quinnipiac with services like a 
job placement program. He also planned to renovate the 
facility with funds from the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development (HUD). Henry, however, worried 
about long term results. Tenants in public housing pay a 
fixed 30 percent of their income for rent. If Gleich had 
purchased Quinnipiac, he could have convened the water-
front property to market prices after 15 years, forcing out 
low-income tenants. 

Then Mayor Biagio DiLieto placed H enry and her 
daughter, Delzina, on a committee to assess Gleich's propos-
al, but both felt that the commission consistently ignored 
their input. They resigned from the committee at a press 
conference in the mayor's office, calling the decision-mak-
ing process a sham. 

When Alderman Frank Grasso (D-12) indicated that 
he would vote in favor of Gleich's 
faucets, walls that were coming apart," recalls Henry. She 
also pointed our the common hallways where drug dealers 
and abusers congregated. 

"The next thing we knew, HUD told us to give 
Quinnipiac Terrace whatever they needed to turn che place 
around," recalls David Echols, executive director of 
HANH. HUD granted Quinnipiac $12.4 million. Half of 
these funds went to remodel kitchens and bathrooms, 
remove asbestos and lead-based paint, and eliminate the 
common hallways. Quinnipiac plans to use the remaining 
money to improve the facilicy's grounds. 

H
enry moved to Quinnipiac Terrace in search of a 
safe place to raise her family. She placed her name 
on a waiting list in 1965 and finally got in nine 
years later, when the development abandoned a policy for-
bidding access to unwed mothers. "It had everything," 
recalls Henry, who has never married. "Grass, trees, a park, 
nice acmosphere ... it was a nice place to live and raise a fami-
1 , 
y. 

Unfortunately, the same park that attracted Henry also 
appealed to drug dealers. Not only did the park afford an 
unobstructed view of oncoming police cars, bur the devel-
opment's easy access co the highways made it perfect for a 
quick getaway. By the mid-80's, extensive drug traffic had 
takeover, Henry and tenant support-
ers picketed his home. Grasso 
thought that the social services Gleich 
proposed could help Quinnipiac, bur 
he voted against the takeover in 
response to tenants' fears about rent 
stability. The Gleich deal didn't go 
through, and the developer is now 
under FBI investigation in connec-
uShe fights for us when we 
turned Quinnipiac Terrace into what 
tenant DuBose described as one big 
shooting target. "Even now, we can't 
sit our on our porches the way we 
used to," she says. "You never know 
when a bullet's going to come flying." 

In 1988, Henry joined tenants 
from five other housing develop-
mentS in New Haven to form 
Tenants Against Drugs Dammit!! 
need it, "says a tenant on 
the task force. uThe only 
(TADD!!). Tenant members reported any drug activity that 
chey witnessed in the park. Then police chief William 
Farrell supplied TADD!! members with a direct line to the 
station and provided each development with up to four offi-
cers ro conduct round-the-clock surveillance for three 
weeks. Two community-based police officers srill patrol 
Quinnipiac. 

Henry does nor let the few dealers who remain at 
Quinnipiac intimidate her. "My mother and I went to rhe 
help we've got is her. " 
tion with his political contributions co New Haven officials. 

Even before Gleich appeared on the scene, the Housing 
Authority of New Haven (HANH) had plans to renovate 
Quinnipiac. Unfortunately, other sites ranked high~r on 
their list of priorities. Henry went to work and convmced 
HUD that Quinnipiac's problems could not wait. 

With strong support from Morrison, Henry and her tenants 
persuaded HUD representatives to visit Quinnipiac. "We 
showed them the falling plaster, chipped paine, leaky 


**Title: Doodle Dynasty**
**Author: Peter Seibel**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
t all started in 1950 with a $300 prize from a church raf-
fle and a lucky coincidence. Lew Beckwith Sr., a 41-year 
old sometime bartender-waiter, happened to be working 
for the Monarch laundry company just when they wanted to 
sell their store-front on Elm Street. With the raffle prize and 
a few loans, Lew Sr. bought the building and started a lunch-
counter hamburger joint, the Yankee Doodle Dandy, which 
would become a New Haven landmark and a favorite eating 
spot fo:: the Yale and New Haven community. 

Lew Jr. was 12 at the time and his father put him to work 
washing dishes every minute that the boy was not in school. 
Now Lew Jr. is just Lew, an.d he is the owner, maitre d', short-
order cook, floor sweeper, and waiter at the 12-seat establish-
ment. He started his own daughter, Darlene, working ·at the 
Doodle when she was 12, and now she is his only employee, 
officially the waitress, though if Lew has a second to spare he 
will ask a customer directly, "What can I get for you?" 

Above Lew and Darlene's heads hang signs advertising 
the Doodle's low prices; the top dollar item is the "Dandy 
Doodle Double Double Cheeseburger on a hard roll, L&T, 
with onions and bacon-$3.00." Like the prices, the decor 
seems more 50s than 90s, from the ancient "Drink Coca-
Cola" clock in one corner to the vintage manual cash regis-
ter. Le""w still uses the same equipment that his father 
bought when he opened the store, from the Toastmaster 
toasters to the Tidy Nap napkin holders. Throughout the 
decades, countless customers have worn off the counter's 
finish as they leaned over to pay their bill and exchange 
pleasantries with Lew. 

Lew spends his day dancing a two-step between a grill 
about the size of two cafeteria trays and a wooden counter.-
He cooks everything on the grill or on a single burner to its 
right; the back burner always holds a plate piled with bacon. 
From his spot in front of the counter Lew can reach all the 
foodstuffs he needs to prepare everything on the Doodle 
menu, from sliced cheese, tomatoes, and ham to a nutri-
tionist's worst nightmare;- pigs-in-blankets-hot dogs 
stuffed with cheese and wrapped in bacon. 

Although the restaurant hasn't changed since 1953-
when Lew's father moved the counter from one side of the 
store to the other, to add two stools that expanded the avail-
able seating by 20 percent-the world outside has changed 
quite a bit. The country has gone off the silver standard. 
(The first bill the Doodle earned, taped in Lew's scrap book, 
bears the legend "In silver payable to bearer on demand.") 
Prices have gone up-"Yeah, prices change," says Lew. 
"Usually once a year I go up five cents on everything." Yale 
went coed. "I didn't like to see the change. But now I'm 
glad because it's better this way." Lew also remembers 
"when there were 8:00a.m. and Sarurday classes, and when 
they wore jackets to dinner. Nowadays if you're a senior 
and you've got a class on Friday you did something wrong." 

Lew saw John Kennedy's motorcade drive right by the 
Doodle on the way to the president's speech on the green. 
A few years later he boarded up his windows as a precaution 
against riots during the Black Panther trials of 1970. 

Through it all the Doodle has stayed open, winning 
devotees in Yale and New Haven. Lew reminisces about the 
late Bart Giarnatti, who used to come in for a burger even 
after he left Yale to become Commissioner of Baseball. 

History Professor Jonathan Spence, who considers the 
Doodle an essential contributor to Yale's status as a great 
research university, ate his first meal in New Haven at the 
Doodle when he arrived from England in 1959. "The 
Yankee Doodle is for when you need a quick meal and an


Except for his two annual 12-day vacations, one at 
Christmas and one in July, Lew has kept the Doodle 
open almost without pause for its 42-year existence. 
"I was closed for a couple of days when my father died and 
for a couple days when Darlene's other grandfather died. I 
had to go into the hospital twice for operations, but the first 
time I postponed the operation until my son was off f~r the 
summer and he kept it open for me. T he second ume I 
postponed it until he could take his vacation from work." 

The Doodle used to stay open until midnight, but Lew has 
eased back in recent years, cutting the hours to the current 
6:30 a.m. co 2:30 p.m. He stiH arrives at 4:~0 eve~ morn-
ing to make the coffee and light the stove. That gtves me 
about a half hour to read the paper and get a cup of coffee 
myself." Then comes the first of three daily rushes-two 
breakfast rushes, one from 6:30 to 7:30, another from 9:00 
to 10:00, and a lunch rush that starts around noon. 

The seasons also bring an ebb and flow of business into 
the Doodle. "Toward the end of the year the architecture 
students seem to work around the clock-they come in 
early," says Lew. "Or on Saturdays if a sports team has to 
leave early or when there's an exam like the LSAT when 
everyone has to get up early, then I get a rush." On a nor-
mal day Lew serves about 350 customers, but when the din-
ing halls are closed at the beginning and end of the school 
year it is even busier. "It can get up as high as 500-550 cus-
tomers a day. There's only 12 stools, and we're only open 
eight hours. When you're serving 500 people you're push-
ing a lot of people." 

During his years at the Doodle, Lew has seen many 
restaurants come and go. He attributes the Doodle's staying 
power to a sort oflunch-
counter hoi y tri n i ry: 
"Good food, reasonable 
prices, and fast service." 
A fourth factor, the fam-
ily 
tradition, 
has 
undoubtedly contribut-
ed to the Doodle's suc-
cess. Unfortunately, the 
tradition will end with 
Lew. His son, a banker 
in Chicago, has no inter-
est in running a restau-
rant. Darlene is going to 
keep working at the 
Doodle as long as Lew 
keeps it open, but she 
doesn't covet Lew's 4:30 
to 3:30 daily schedule. 
"It's a lor of work, and I 
wouldn't be able to do 
it," she explains. 

As for Lew, he 
will head to Florida 
when he retires. "I plan 
to spend most of my time where it's nice and warm, where 
you don't have to worry about shoveling snow and starting 
the car when batteries won't start." But the move is still a 
few years off at least: "I'd like to hang on unril the year 2000 
because three things will happen," he says. " I' ll be 62, 
which is the retirement age; it'll be the year 2000, which is 
something; and the Doodle will be 50." 

APRIL 10, 1992 
Peter Sdbel is a sophomore in Berkeky Colkge. 


**Title: Unbalanced Equation**
**Author: Savannah Neely**
**Page number(s): 18**

Suzy Loper {SY '92), the lone fomal.e 
physics major in her class, helped create 
the Math-Science sibling group. 

C C s 
tudies show that women, by 
the undergraduate years, 
rend to shy aw7ty from 
math-related sciences," said biology 
professor Mary Helen Goldsmith. 

Girls learn early that to pursue a career 
in math or science goes against the 
grain of societal expectations, and 
··tany colleges give them little reason 
:- ~ believe otherwise. Yale proves no 
.: .~ception to the rule. With few 
women faculty to serve as role models, 
Yale may indeed compound the attri-
tion rare. 

-Most Group IV departments suf-
fer from a severe drop-off in the num-
ber of women who continue past 
introductory-level courses. Students 
estimate the female-to-male ratio in 
upper-level electrical engineering 
courses at one in four, and the physics 
ratio at a startling one in ten. A huge 
gap between the number of men and 
women science majors plagued last 
year's graduating class. In the most 
glaring example, the physics depart-
ment had no women graduates in 
1991 and will give a degree to only 
one woman this year. 

Suzy Loper (SY '92), the lone 
female physics major in the senior 
class, believes that the lack of women 
faculty lies at the root of the low num-
ber of female science students. In 
physics, applied physics, biology, engi-
neering, math, and MB&B, only 6 our 
of 139 tenured professors are women. 

Marian Westley (SM '93), one of four 
female physics majors in her class, has 
never had a female professor because 
there are none in her department. 

Only biology stands out among 
the science departments for its abun-
dance of women students; it in fact 
boasts more women students than 
men. Still, the ratio does not result 
from any special effort on the part of 
the university. Instead, biology attracts 
women because it is the stepping stone 
to medical school. "People who are 
more concerned about the practical 
application of their education choose 
biology," explained Loper. And some 
women may choose biology because it · 
requires less math than other sciences. 
"Biology is traditionally more attrac-
tive because it doesn't have as much 
reliance on quantitative calculations," 
said Goldsmith. Biology also has three 
women professors, making it the most 
integrated science department at Yale. 

Female students in the "hard" sci-
ences, such as physics, engineering, 
and math, say that the paucity of 
female role models on the faculty 
alienates them from the sciences. 
"When everyone you go to for help is 
of the opposite sex, there is a strange 
dynamic created," said engineering 
major Ida Primus (BR '93). Male pro-
fessors simply cannot fill the void. "It's 
not so much a matter of male faculty 
not supporting you, but of having the 
chance to see people like you who are 
farther along," explained Westley. 

Students like Primus seek summer 
programs geared towards women, such 
as Mills College Summer Math 
Institute, to study under female pro-
fessors. 

Yale women who must look to 
other schools to obtain the support 
they need call for a change in the uni-
versity's agenda. In 1989, a committee 
headed by psychology professor Judith 
Rodin submitted a report which called 
for recruitment of female and minority 
professors, but the university has no




**Title: The Gender Gap in Science at Yale**
**Author: Savannah Nuiy**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
immediate plans to increase the num-
ber of female science faculty. "Yale is 
currently unwilling to recognize the 
lack of women as a significant flaw in 
its program," said Loper. "But if 40 
percent of students in an introductory 
physics class are women and the grad-
uating class includes only a handful, 
then there is a problem." 


Women faculty face obstacles 
even more daunting than 
those that frustrate their 
students. The struggle for tenure con-
tributes heavily to their tenuous posi-
tion at the university. In the first ten 
years of coeducation, the number of 
tenured women rose by only 18 while 
the number of men grew by 83. Only 
one woman received tenure in physics. 
"Yale is a university run by its senior 
faculty, and as long as women remain 
untenured it will always be male dom-
inated," said one woman professor. 


A few female professors allege that 
a glass ceiling in the sciences prevents 
them from getting ahead. "In my 
experience, the policy has never been 
to recruit women," said another 
female faculty member. "I have seen a 
pattern where women get hired as 
assistants or associate professors and 
then are never tenured." 


Charles Bockelman, the Director 
of Undergraduate Studies for Physics, 
disputes such charges. "It is not a 
question of not hiring women," 
claimed Bockelman, "When the posi-
tion comes up the best person for the 
job is hired." 


And other professors think that 
the position of women faculty will 
improve over time. Goldsmith claims 
that as more women fill the junior and 
associate positions, the number of 
tenured women inevitably will 
increase. Since Yale lacks a tenure 
track, however, a junior appointment 
is no guarantee of tenure. In fact, 
most junior professors must constantly 
apply for permanent positions at other 
schools while at Yale. 
APRIL IO, 1992 
While the university relies on nat-
ural progression of women up the job 
ladder to remedy its lack of female 
professors, the undergraduate admis-
sions office has adopted a more active 
policy. Todd Viola, who works part 
time in admissions as the science-engi-
neering coordinator, seeks out and 
identifies outstanding high school sci-
entists. He claims that his recruitment 
efforts apply especially to women and 
minorities. 


For incoming freshpeople, both 
male and female, the Dean's office 
sponsors the Academic Mentorship 
Program in Science. The new year-
long seminar program includes a 
weekly lecture by a professor explain-
ing his or her personal research, fol-
lowed by small discussion groups. But 
the lunchtime discussion group 
Women in Science, which Viola was to 
head, fizzled this year because of lack 
of student participation. 


With sparse institutional support, 
students have stepped in to fill the 
breach. Science at Yale has taken on a 
new dimension this year with the 
addition of an undergraduate support 
network for science majors. The 
Math-Science Sibling group, initiated 
last fall by Westley, Loper, and Nancy 
Cunningham OE '92), strives to foster 
communication between first-year and 
upper-level science students. But stu-
dent-run groups don't have the clout 
to effect real change. Female science 
students point out that only Yale can 
change the statistics by directly 
encouraging women to take science 
classes and by hiring more women 
professors. "People hold up groups like 
Women in Science as a solution to the 
problem," said Julia Charles (CC '92). 
"They say, 'What are you complaining 
about?' But that escapes the real prob-
lem: there are no women science pro-
fessors at Yale." 


**Title: Dwight Hall: Spirit of Service**
**Author: folie Taublieb**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

When the spring thaw of 1982 revealed several 
bodies frozen to death under a New Haven 
bridge, a group of Yale students organized a 
homeless shelter through Dwight Hall. The students used a 
church as a temporary facility while they consulted appro-
priate city and county officials on legal matters and polled 
neighborhoods to find a community that would support the 
shelter. By November, Columbus House opened its doors, 
and a board of New Haven residents took over its manage-
ment. 


Columbus House is only one of a multitude of social ser-
vice programs born and nourished in Dwight Hall. A clear-
inghouse for over 100 student community service projects, 
Dwight Hall provides a vital link between the Yale and New 
Haven communities. "Dwight Hall is an important way for 
student initiative and community initiative to connect," said 
Hari Osofsky (DC '93), Dwight Hall co-coordinator. 


Jack Hasegawa brings day-to-day continuity to Dwight Hall. 
William Johnston, Program Director of Columbus 
House, regards Dwight Hall as a valuable source of volun-
teers for public service projects. New Haven community 
leaders appreciate the personal strength and energy of the 
individuals Dwight Hall brings to the community. "The 
people from Dwight Hall participate out of genuine con-
cern, as opposed to public relations," said Shawn Garris, 
Assistant Director of Dixwell Community House. 


Dwight Hall opened its doors as the Christian Social 
Union of Yale in 1879 under the guidance of evangelist 
Dwight L. Moody, and flourished as a religious center 
throughout much of its history. In an informal agreement 
with the Yale administration in 1886, the Dwight Hall 
Cabinet received its present building. "Dwight Hall owned 
everything inside the paint, and Yale owned everything out-
side," explained Jack Hasegawa, General Secretary of 
Dwight Hall. As the Yale YMCA, Dwight Hall sponsored 
numerous social missions. Eventually, the organization 
shed its religious affiliations for purely social concerns in 
response to the changing religious demography of the stu-
dent body. "The Dwight Hall of today still has lofty goals, 
but of a more secular nature," said Edith MacMullen, a 
member of the Board of Directors. 


Dwight Hall founded such New Haven establishments 
as Halfway House and Columbus House, and maintains an 
active role in on-campus social change as well. Freshperson 
Conference, the Freshman Counselor system, and even 
Yale's current co-educational status grew from Dwight Hall 
roots. Over 2000 students participate in service programs 
run through Dwight Hall. "It is probably the largest single 
undergraduate activity at Yale," said Hasegawa. 


Despite its close ties to both Yale and New Haven, 
Dwight Hall remains a financially and legally independent 
non-profit organization. An endowment provides approxi-
mately half its $4 million budget, and an annual fundraising 
drive begun in 1919 yields the rest. The organization thus 
occupies a unique niche between Yale and New Haven, 
serving more as a member of both communities than as dis-
tinct from either. 


Because of its campus location, Dwight Hall enjoys 
advantages ranging from exemption from liability insurance 
to more luxurious benefits, such as enhanced attraction for 
speakers at Dwight Hall events. "Dwight Hall does not 
have to be limited by or worried about conflicts with the 
policies of Yale," said MacMullen. "But it does get the ben-
efits of being perceived as part of Yale, as 
well as the physical benefits." Dwight Hall 
leaders appreciate those perks, but also 
cherish their independence. Janet Molloy 
(BR '92), 1991 Dwight Hall Cabinet 
coordinator, believes that the center would 
lose its effectiveness if Yale ran it. "It 
would become a sort of mouthpiece for 
Yale, and perhaps be required to follow an 
agenda that Yale set forth," she said. 
"Being separate from Yale is vital to 
Dwight Hall's functioning." 


Cabinet member Sarah Davidson (TC 
'92) also cites Dwight Hall's independence 
as 
the 
reason 
for 
its 
success. 
"Independence gives Dwight Hall the lib-
erty to become a political institution if it 
wants, and to take a position on university Dwight Hall student coordinators Brandi Clark (UE '93), Hari Osofsky (DC 
affairs," she said. When Dwight Hall voiced '93), and Stefan Pryor (SM '93) serve as liaisons between Yale and New Haven. 
concerns about the safety of volunteers who 
had to walk to New Haven work sites, the university denied 
financial assistance for student transportation. Dwight Hall 
criticized the university's policy and drew from its own funds 
to buy a van. 


Davidson suggested that Dwight Hall's division from 
Yale also makes the organization less intimidating to com-
munity members, thus fostering better Yale-New Haven 
relations. She claimed that "We the People," the alliance 
formed by Yale students and the homeless of New Haven to 
fight state budget cuts, might not have attracted homeless 
support if the university had been officially involved. 


Another advantage to Dwight Hall's autonomy became 
apparent in mid-February when it provided a relocation site 
for many classes during the three-day union strike. "We 
have frequently been in the middle of a variety of controver-
sies that have nothing to do with us," said Hasegawa. 
"There's a customary wisdom that Dwight Hall is neutral 
territory during a strike." Offering a calm, buffered atmo-
sphere, Dwight Hall often facilitates communication 
between disputants. 


Stefan Pryor (SM '93), co-coordinator of Dwight Hall 
Cabinet, described Dwight Hall's position as one of active 
neutrality. "We can take the role of off-campus space when 
necessary, but clearly we're on campus," he said. By encour-
aging communication, Pryor believes that Dwight Hall 
takes an active role in social and political issues. "In issues 
of service and advocacy, we're not neutral," he said. Dwight 
Hall-sponsored groups like "We the People" regularly lobby 
for legislation on the local, state, and even national levels. 


Officially, the Board of Directors bears responsibility 
for Dwight Hall, dealing with legal concerns and offering 
APRIL 10, 1992 
guidance to the student-run Dwight Hall Cabinet; the 
staff, headed by Hasegawa, functions as a middle ground 
between students and the board. Because the board meets 
only twice a year, much of the authority of Dwight Hall 
passes to the students. The Dwight Hall Cabinet, which 
usually numbers around 20 students, has met weekly every 
year since 1882. At these meetings, which take place in a 
round table format with the cabinet coordinators moderat-
ing, students make most of the decisions about Dwight 
Hall's functions, including the allocation of funds among its 
various organizations. 


Dwight Hall volunteers continually initiate new projects 
and programs, making student leadership an essential com-
ponent of the center. "Students have no boundaries," 
Hasegawa said, noting that they often become intensely 
devoted to their projects. One day he received $1200 worth 
of camping and hiking supplies for Outdoor Corps, an orga-
nization which brings together Yale students and inner-city 
New Haven youth for companionship and recreation. The 
group's founder had received the Dwight Hall Humanitarian 
Services Award and funnelled the money back to her group. 


Community activists from both Yale and New Haven 
agree that Dwight Hall offers both the lessons and the 
rewards of involvement in community service. Students can 
pursue projects of their choosing and learn the practical 
aspects of developing and maintaining a program while 
enjoying a sense of personal accomplishment. 


"What's 
touched me the most is the interaction I had with the kids," 
said Davidson. "When you feel you've made a difference in 
someone's life, it's an incredible feeling." 

folie Taublieb is a freshman in Jonathan Edwards College.



**Title: Shattered Lives**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Traditionally, American law has treated family vio-
lence as a private matter. Between eight and twelve 
million women in the U.S. will experience battering 
at some point in their lives, yet until recently police had lit-
de authority to intervene in domestic disputes. In the late 
70s, the New Haven Bartered Women's Project formed to 
support victims of abuse. Grassroots groups like this lob-


bied state legislatures ro bring legal protection into the 
home. 

In 1986, Connecricu t became one of rhe first states to 
make violence a crime. And whatever its shortcomings, the 
Family Violence Prevention and Response Act has forced 
police ro intervene between partners. "In rhe old days you 
didn't know what would happen if you called the police. As 
likely as nor, nothing," said psychologist Evan Stark, co-
director of the Domestic Violence Training Project in New 
Haven. "Now there is a predictable response." 

T he Family Violence 'Act instituted mandatory arrest 
for bacrerers. Whenever police believe that spousal assault 
has occured or will occur, they must arrest the abuser even if 
the victim asks them not co. Legislators created a family vio-
lence education program and hired victim advocates to steer 
battered women through che legal system. The law also pro-
vided protective and restraining orders for women who 
leave their partners and fear chat violence will recur. 

Some experts in the field charge that mandatory arrest 
discourages women from calling the police. But most of 
Connecticut's domestic violence workers applaud the thou-
sands of arrests char take place under the new law when 
none did before. ''I'm very happy with the law," said Stark. 
"For many men the arrest has a tremendous effect, and it 
empowers women." 

Barbara Glenn, one of Connecticut's four victim advo-
cates, serves as a liaison between abused women and the 
court system. She believes that prosecutors need to apply 
Connecticut's law more rigorously. After the arrest, the state 
usually drops charges unless it has the victim's cooperation. 
"By instituting mandatorv arrest, we took the burden off 
the victim," said Glenn. "But then we turn around and 
drop it back into her lap." 

In the event that prosecution takes place, barterers 
rarely go to prison. Most convicted men go on probation or 
pay fines. "Although the pattern of battering is predictable, 
most bacrerers are nor detained in prison, because society 
does not recognize them as dangerous," said Dr. Susan 
McLeer, vice-chair of psychiatry at the Medical College of 
Pennsylvania. "We simply fail to take battering seriously." 

Experts also link barterers' light penalties to popular 
misconcepdons about domestic violence. McLeer, who tes-
tifies in court on behalf of women who have killed their 
partners, has found that few judges and juries understand 
the complex nature o f family violence. "Many people 
believe that battered women · move from one abusive rela-
tionship to another, or that their provocadveness causes the 
battering," said McLeer. "But abused women are a heteroge-
neous population in every way. According to the data, there 


is no psychological portrait that many women neatly fit 
into. 

The Family Violence Act escapes the trap of blaming 
women for the violence. The law set up a state-funded fam-
ily violence education program for first-offense barterers. 
Men pay $100 for six weekly sessions. If both partners 
agree, the prosecution drops charges for men who complete 
the program. Yet statistics show that the program rarely 
changes behavior or prevents repeat offenses. "The program 
is the system's answer to rehabilitation, and as rehab the 
statistics show that it has limited success," said Glenn. She 
believes that the program proves more useful for the women 
than for their barterers. "If a man attends the program and 
beats his wife again, she can say that she gave him a chance 
to change, and it didn't work. With this behind them, some 
women can end abusive relationships." 

Many women trapped in the cycle of abuse take a long 
time to leave the relationship because they believe they can 
put an end to the violence. "Initially, the woman's goal is to 
minimize the violence and preserve the relationship," said 
McLeer. "But those are mutually incompatible goals." 

Many women call the police as a short-term solution to the 
escalation of violence rather than to see their husbands 
arrested. "Most women want the system to fix their hus-
bands, not to protect them," said Glenn. 

Women must see chat they are powerless to stop the 
violence before they can extricate themselves. "In order to 
make the decision to leave, a woman has to realize her own 
lack of control," said McLeer. Many have compelling rea-
sons to stay. Some depend on their husbands for financial 
support. Others fear the possible consequences of leaving, 
with good cause. Over 4000 women in the U.S. die annual-
ly as a result of domestic violence, and 58 percent of 
women raped over the age of 30 are attacked by abusive 
partners. 

Studies show that when a woman contemplates leaving, 
she finds herself in the greatest danger. "Getting out can be 
very difficult. Many men behave like Glenn Close's charac-
ter in Fatal Attraction in terms of relentless and targeted 
pursuit," said McLeer. 

Many women who decide to leave violent relationships 
do so because they don't want their children to become like 
their parents. Children from violent homes grow up sur-
rounded by role models based on the dominance of one 
parent rather than mutual respect. "Many kids can over-
come those kinds of gender expectations," said social work-
er Steven Nagler, clinical director of family support services 
at the Yale Child Study Center. "But why should they have 
to?" 

Once women bring themselves to leave the relation-


ship, they can ask the court for protective orders that make 


it illegal for their husbands to visit, telephone, or contact 
them in any way. Still, some men defy the orders. "The sys-
tem does not make women safe," said Glenn. "If an abuser 
is obsessive or doesn't respect the law, a piece of paper won't 
deter him." 

The law also fails to enforce protective orders with 
harsh penalties. Most men who break the orders can plea 
bargain their sentences to misdemeanors, the least serious 
category of criminal offense. Without reassurance that the 
violence will stop, some women hestitate to take action 
against their partners, knowing that a man who believes 
that his partner has gotten him inro trouble can become 
more dangerous. "Women are well aware that they don't 
have adequate protection, and that will affect the decisions 
they make," said McLeer. 

Experts want to make Connecticut's law tougher on 
barterers. Stark argues that men should go to jail for break-
ing protective orders, and that police should provide 
women with protection as soon as the judge issues an order, 
rather than waiting until they call for help. Stark also stress-
es that the legal system's failure to evaluate the history of 
violence and abuse in a relationship thwacts its own good 
intentions. "The real difficulty with the law is that it only 
reacts to the episode and doesn't take into account that bat-
tering is a historical crime," said Stark. 

Because of the complex and deeply personal nature of 
domestic violence, legal antidotes pose problems for both 
victims and law enforcement officials. When women con-
tinue to love the men who beat them, police throw up their 
hands in exasperation. "It makes the police crazy when 
women invite their husbands to come back," said Glenn. 
"When victims repeatedly fail to press charges or try to get 
protective orders overturned, they lose their credibility with 
the police and the courts. As a victim advocate, I try to 
make police understand why a woman might not make the 
decision they think she should." 

The six-year-old Family Violence Act has brought sup-
port service workers into the legal picture. Lawmakers' 
recognition that family violence is a crime that belongs in 
the public sphere has given victims and police a tool with 
which to counter abuse. Yet without vigilant enforcement, 
the promise of Connecticut's law remains only half-fulfilled.


**Title: When the New Haven Project for Battered Women formed in 1977, it**
**Author:  [No author listed]**
**Page number(s): 24**

en the New Haven 
Project 
for 
Battered 
Women formed in 1977, it 
created a network of homes where vic-
tims could find shelter, a hodine, and 
a support group staffed by volunteers. 
A year later the project received funds 
from the Connecticut Department of 
Human Resources to establish a shel-
ter for women who wanted to leave 
their husbands but had nowhere to go. 
With the Family Violence Act of 
1986, the agency gained four victim 
advocates to help over 5000 victims 
negotiate the legal system. Now called 
Domestic Violence Services of Greater 
New Haven (DVS), the agency owns a 
shelter that houses 15 people for up to 
60 days each. 

Last year DVS responded to over 
850 crisis calls on its 24-hour hotline, 
housed over 200 women and children 
in the shelter and placed over 200 
more in motels. It also provided 
awareness training for police depart-
ments throughout the New Haven 
area, including the Yale 
Police. DVS also runs corn-
rnunity workshops to edu-
cate women about the pro-
tection that the law offers 
them. 

As a non-profit agency, 
DVS runs on a shoestring 
budget. Aside from state 
funds for the victim advo-
cates, the agency relies on 
grants from United Way and 
area towns as well as private 
donations. "We've had to 
fight every step of the way to 
get where we are now," said 
Margerita Ayala, who has 
worked at the New Haven 
shelter for 13 years. "Fifteen 
years ago there were no sup-
port services in this city. 
Now women who need help 
have people they can turn to 
and a safe place to stay." 

Counselors celebrate with 
the women who find the 
strength to leave their abusive hus-
bands and begin a new life. "I love to 
see the women who come here, whose 
husbands have controlled everything 
in their lives, show some indepen-
dence," said Ayala. 

Below, three local women tell their 
stories. 



**Title: Unspeakable Acts**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
showed me his computerized record, 
as long as your arm. I found out that 
Mark was what they call a career criminal-
rapes, assaults, drugs, anything 
that you can do against the law. He 
had done six years in the state prison 
for _rape. I decided to divorce him. 
When I told him he came home and 
beat the living crap out of me. He 
threw me around my house, punched 
me like I was a ragdoll. 

Afterwards Mark begged me to 
forgive him. I put the divorce on hold 
because I wanted to give him one 
more chance to prove to himself that 
he could be a better person. You hear 
stories about people who have had a 
rough life and turn themselves around. 
Finally I couldn't take it any more 
and started to divorce him again. I 
knew that the relationship was a dead 
end. I put my children right up in 
front of me. I couldn't put them 
through that kind of life. Many times 
they saw me getting beaten, the blood. 
I don't want them to think it's okay to 
hit people. 

In June, when my divorce was in 
progress Mark and I went on a date 
and decided to get back together. 
Between last summer and November 
he beat me up five or six times. I covered 
up the bruises with make up, but 
who was I trying to fool? In 
November, I told him: "You don't 
want to change," and he packed up 
and left. 

He's gotten arrested a bunch of 
times for breaking the restraining 
orders. Once he punched a hole in my 
front door trying to get in. Now I have 
two protective orders and a restraining 
order but he's persistent: phone calls, 
letters, sending people to talk to me. 
Last New Year's Eve, after we had 
been divorced for two months, the 
children and I agreed to let Mark take 
us out to dinner. While we ate he kept 
telling them that he was moving back 
in. He came home with us, and after 
the kids went to bed I told him that he 
couldn't stay, which triggered an explosion. He said: "I'm not leaving, I'll kill 
you before this is over." He accused me 
of seeing other men and spit at me. He 
banged my head against the wall and 
strangled me and hit me over and over 
again. I kept screaming "I didn't do 
anything! Get out!" but he wouldn't let 
me near the phone. 

It was late and I was so afraid. He 
forced me to give him oral sex, said if I 
didn't he'd kill me. I was crying so 
hard. So many times I said please 
respect my wishes, but he forced me to 
have sex. He called me so many awful 
names. 

He stayed for two days. I didn't 
know what to do. I was beside myself 
on New Year's Day, afraid to provoke 
him, afraid to get help. So I went 
along with him. I thought maybe he'd 
mellow out and go. 

I was sorer than sore, a wreck. I 
was afraid to pick up the phone, afraid 
of what he'd do to my kids. The next 
morning he pushed me into the 
kitchen, slammed me against the 
fridge, beat me again. My kids were 
getting ready for school and they witnessed all of it. After they left he stayed 
for hours. I was so afraid he'd kill me. 
That night the kids and I went to 
the police department, and the cop 
was so cold. He didn't even take me 
into a private room to hear my story. 
He asked me why I had waited to 
report what Mark had done, and then 
he told me that I didn't have a leg to 
stand on in court. I was crying, the 
kids were too. We walked out and I 
felt stripped, devastated. Why didn't 
they help me? I was afraid to go home. 

A week later I went back and the 
police captain tried to cover up for 
that cop. He took a report, and now 
Mark is facing a sexual assault charge. 
He could get 20 years, but he's out on 
bail. Three weeks ago he started to 
contact me, and I reported it. 

Last month I called Domestic 
Violence Services. They offered 
babysitting, so I came to the support 
group. I walked in and saw wall-to-
wall women. I kept thinking I'm not 
the only one, I'm not alone. The 
group helped and reassured me almost 
immediately. 

How many women never say anything 
because they're scared to death? 
You wonder why they don't turn 
around? Because they're afraid they'll 
get killed. If I had stayed longer in that 
relationship I could have been dead. 

Now I have to learn what I want 
out of my life, what I need, to understand what a healthy relationship is. 
I'm not ready for other men. I have 
too much fear. 

Dani left her husband after five months 
of marriage because she found 
his violent behavior unacceptable. The 
32-year-old woman and her child have 
left the New Haven Shelter to start over. 


My second husband was 
always a little crazy, but as 
long as he didn't bother me 
it was fine. Before we were married I 
knew that he fought with other men 
when he was angry. He takes medication 
because he can't control his anger, 
and he's a recovering alcoholic. A 
counselor told me drinking doesn't 
make a difference in terms of violent 
behavior, but I don't believe that. 

The relationship was stupid. We 
met in May, got married in September, 
and I left in January. I got sick and 
tired of him, his drinking, the violence. 
He would get angry at things I said and 
choke me. I always fought back. 
I never called the cops-I 
wouldn't cause trouble for him like 
that. Also, my husband always 
snatched the phone out of the wall or 
hid the receiver when we fought. 

The first night I felt unsafe, I 
called the shelter and left. I can't live 
with a person I'm scared of, and I 
couldn't take the verbal abuse towards 
me and my son. I couldn't have my 
son grow up like that. My father 
always put me down and it was hell. 

I left because I know what's right 
and wrong and I didn't have time for 
that nonsense. A lot of women are 
afraid to be alone because they have 
low self-esteem. I don't need a man to 
feel whole because I don't feel unwhole. Next September, I want to go 
back to school. 

Maria sought shelter for herself and 
her five children after she decided to end 
a nine-year relationship with her 
boyfriend, a drug addict who abused her 
mentally and threatened her life. In her 
early 30s, she has lived at the New 
Haven Shelter for Battered Women for 
over a month. 

I'm like the black sheep of my family 
because I went to jail for delivering 
drugs. My family was always 
putting me down. I stay away from my 
mother. She loved my first husband. 
He acted totally different when we 
went to visit her. When I told my 
mother that I left him because he beat 
me she called me a liar. They tell you 
to put the past behind you but somehow it 
always sneaks up. 

My first husband was a physical 
abuser. He acted like my father, sat at 
the table with me with a belt to make 
sure I'd eat. If you tell a man, "you're 
not my father, don't tell me what to 
do," he'll hit you twice as hard. You 
can't fight back against a man bigger 
than you-you'll just get hurt. 

I was 17 when I got married, and 
four years later I left, running for my 
life. My husband beat me until I 
passed out if I left the house without 
him or got a phone call he didn't like. I 
thought I was doing something wrong. 

When we were still on our honey-
moon I cooked him breakfast. He 
asked for his eggs sunnyside up, and I 
broke the yolk, so he punched me in 
the face. That first time I figured okay, 
so I did the eggs wrong, and he's late 
for work. He was a real sweet man 
before we were married, and the violence came like a shock. 


**Title:  More Unspeakable Acts**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

I was young and I knew nothing, 
not about birth control, or nothing. I 
got pregnant real quick and I delivered 
at 6 months because my husband kicked 
me in the stomach. My 
first son, he died because the kick 
crushed his skull. My husband had 
the nerve to blame me. 

I had no friends. He didn't want 
anyone in the house and he wouldn't 
let me use the phone. I was so scared I 
wouldn't go outside, even when he was 
at work. I had a collection of sunglasses 
to hide the black eyes. 

Sometimes the neighbors would 
call the cops and they'd come and see 
me with a busted lip or bruises and 
they wouldn't arrest him because they 
didn't see what happened. They'd say, 
go cool off, wait 'til she cools off, then 
come back. Once after they left he hit 
me with a machete. 

But what goes around comes 
around, cause now he's seven feet 
under the ground. He got AIDS and 
when he was in the hospital they came 
looking for me because I was still his 
legal wife. They wanted me to sign the 
papers to turn off the life-support 
machines. His life was in my hands. I 
know it's wrong, but with all the 
abuse, I thought now I had my chance 
to get back at him. And 
you know what? I didn't 
have the heart. I told them 
to wait until his heart 
stopped beating. 

My boyfriend, John, 
didn't hit, but he used lan-
guage that made me feel so 
bad that I would rather get 
hit and get it over with. 

For the first five years 
he was fine. We did every-
thing together and we 
never fought. Then the 
drugs started, and that was 
it. He got into cocaine and 
drinking. It got so bad that 
everything started to disappear from my house. I'd 
send him with $450 to pay 
the rent and the owner 
would get maybe $300 of 
it. I left him a few times, 
but he'd come with a story 
that he would change, get 
a job, stop the coke. I'm 
real softhearted, and when 
I heard his sad story about how much 
he missed the kids, how he wanted 
another chance, I'd come back. For a 
couple of weeks or months it would be 
different, but never for long. 

One day, I decided, this is it. The 
kids had started to hate me. I thought, 
I put my kids first or I go through hell 
for the rest of my life. I stayed for so 
long because I was afraid to be by 
myself. But I realized, this is a waste. 
I'm doing it by myself now, why can't I 
do it alone out there? I realized: I'm a 
smart person, I don't need him thinking 
for me. My kids helped me with 
the decision. We did it together. 

**Title: Tipping the Scales**
**Author: Nina Morrison**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
L. ast year, while I was home on break, my best friend told me about a recent conversation she'd had with her older brother. Why, he had asked her, did so many women gain weight in college? 
She couldn't come up with an answer, so the two of us mulled it over. Although her brother is not known for stunning insight into the lives of women, we had to admit he had called this one right, at least where the women we knew from high school were concerned. Some of us hadn't gained an ounce since our senior class photos, and a few were battling eating disorders. 
But most of us, neither obsessive dieters nor ready for queen-sized pantyhose, had certainly put on a few pounds, some over and above the old frosh fifteen. 

Somehow, though, my friend and I couldn't reconcile this picture of sudden weight gain with the favorable perception we had of our college experiences. The women we knew-despite the usual ups and downs, and a few bouts with end-of-the-world despair-had, for the most part, grown stronger and more confident in these years. And yet here we were, with these sudden, not-exactly voluntary changes in our bodies-right at the time we supposedly felt most in control, most sure of ourselves ... most, well, happy. So we groped around for an answer to her brother's query, expecting to find some yet-unseen "dark side" to account for the extra pounds. The weight gain wasn't something peculiar to women in the Ivy League; we'd seen it in friends at colleges across the country. Maybe, we mused, all these "happy" women were wracked by the pressures of academia, deep-rooted insecurities, or crippling identity crises. And we wondered: What is wrong with us? 

For me, the issue held even deeper resonance. I spent my high school years on a yo-yo dieting regime that ruled my life. Though I never approached the danger zone that some of my peers did-two close friends were hospitalized for bulimia-I spent ninth and tenth grades cutting my food into baby-sized pieces, computing daily calorie totals on scraps of paper between classes, and telling myself that my basketball game would reach All-Star proportions if only I could get my weight down from 112 to 104 pounds. 
I eased up a bit in my junior and senior years, what with all the beer and late-night ice cream feasts my friends and I enjoyed. But I never stopped noticing the upward-creeping needle on the scale. 
Finally, in the spring of my senior year, I convinced my mom to enroll me in Diet Center, where I lost 23 pounds and gained a chorus of"congrats, you look fantastic" from just about everyone I knew. I was such a successful customer-and proclaimed the "I-look-great-but-mostly-I-feel-great" party line with such gusto--that they hired me to be a Diet Counselor (yes, feminist comrades, you're reading this right), where I got paid to chastise women twice my age for eating an extra blueberry muffin or indulging in a glass of wine. 

When I came to college, I took my scale with me, but after the first few months the old diet rules lost some of their power. I joined in midnight pizza runs, realized that if I was going to drink beer I might as well drink Kalhua, and got too busy with work and play to go to the gym as often as I'd planned. The ideological shift came later. By sophomore year, I had discovered love-your-body books like Kim Chernin's The Obsession: Reflections on the Tyranny of Slenderness. Chernin linked the rise of eating disorders and the cult of thinness to a backlash against the women's movement-a backlash that urged women to be smaller than ever before, just as our horizons had begun to grow. Strangely, this was the first time that I saw how much my small-scale obsession undermined the feminist principles I cared about most. I threw out the scale, declared "I'll never diet again," and vowed to accept my new (liberated) physique. 

In truth, though, my personal revolution never fully displaced the old, oppressive regime. I haven't dieted for years, and books like Naomi Wolf's The Beauty Myth have helped me to the point where I can truly say that I like what I look like, "extra" college weight and all. Yet in the recesses of my mind, I haven't yet surrendered the idea that someday, when I'm not caught up in a political campaign or searching for a job, I may get that 112-pound-body back. And when my friend's brother asked his question, I felt a sting of self-reproach. Thinking about weight gain was one thing: it's hard to break free of life-long taboos overnight. But mostly, I was worried about how I must have gotten that way. Sure, I felt strong and independent for most of my college years, but look at how my body had changed: I must be burying my sorrows in food, or a closet Type-A stress case. I must have let my life become chaos, or have just been careless. The unspoken What is wrong with us? became an even more nagging refrain: What is wrong with me? 

It is only recently that I have begun to see that these images- of women gaining confidence and independence on the one hand, and 15 pounds on the other-may not be as irreconcilable as I once thought. Not all the women I know who gained weight in college embraced the fat-is-beautiful idea. But many of us did get wrapped up in our work, in relationships (both good and bad), in pondering the Big Questions of life. And, quite frankly, a lot of us had other things to do besides worry about what we ate every minute. That may be the most liberating change of all. True, many of us could be careless in what we ate-but we also learned to care less about the number on the scale in a given week, and care more about New Haven politics or a new photography class. We may not have wished for a bigger body, but as our workloads and extra-curricular commitments increased, so did the amount of food we needed to eat to keep going. We expanded our brains, gained experience and wisdom, and learned, even in the pressure-cooker we call Yale, to let ourselves go when we needed a break. All of these changes show on our bodies, but this reflection of our choices and experiences is far from a dismal picture. I'm thinking of moments when we women have let food, even in excess, be a part of our good times: sharing rich entrees at a housewarming party; hosting cake-and-champagne celebrations when a friend gets a job offer (yes, seniors, there have been a few of those); or the annual gathering at the Women's Center after the Speak Out and Take Back the Night March, when we devour two vats of ice cream because we need the comfort and nourishment after a draining day. 

Better yet, there have been moments when the "to eat or not to eat" dilemma has been almost irrelevant: when we're writing a paper that just refuses to end, so we keep ourselves awake on coffee and Reese's pieces, or when we are so busy with a project that we grab whatever is on the shelf at Wawa's for dinner, calories and day-after nausea be damned. And then, too, there are those less-than-wonderful moments when we have let food be a much-needed panacea-like when friends console us with an entire box of Oreos (and Kleenex) after we've been dumped. 

Do these images make you uncomfortable? Writing them, I felt a bit of a twinge myself-women eating junk food, or high-calorie meals of any kind, is hardly the image we are taught to associate with maturity and personal growth. Obviously, there is nothing "healthy" about unhealthy food, and a pack of Reese's is no long-term solution for stress. Yet much as I hate Gordon Gekko and his Wall Street ethos, perhaps the "greed is good" credo does have some meaning for women's lives. Women, more than men, are taught to feel guilty about indulgence, and the evidence of our "sins" where food is concerned gets frowned upon even more. That so many of us have been able to toss aside these mandates-to eat what we feel like eating, because, even if just for a moment, other things in our lives are more important-is a hopeful sign. 

I am not suggesting that all women have plunged, full of self-confidence, into the waters of "food freedom." Recent estimates place the number of women on college campuses with eating disorders at between 20 and 50 percent. Even among those of us without full-blown eating disorders, it would be hard to find a single one who does not have her own doubts, anxieties, and share of self-loathing about her body. And certainly, not all of us have had blissful college careers. The campus abounds with women who take out anger, pain, and stress on their own bodies, and for whom eating is a prisonhouse rather than a sign of liberation. No doubt, some of the women who have gained or lost weight in college are deeply troubled, and their changing exteriors do signify inner torment. 

But this isn't the case for all of us. When we "take care of ourselves" it may mean we spend a day in the sun, or buy a new dress, or go for a long, sweaty run. Yet at other times it may


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Nina Morrison**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
mean that we skip the run because 
we're too wrapped up in a book or 
arguing with a friend, or we're just too 
tired to haul our bum off the couch 
today. Or we may decide that, even 
though it's not a long-term cure for 
our woes, it reaJly would make us feel 
better to drown our sorrows in ice 
cream for a nigltt or two. 

I 
remember the night last May 
when my mother suggested I ask 
my internist to check out my 
metabolism. "After all," she said, 
"you've gained a lot of weight since 
you started school, but you don't eat 
an enormous amount." I lashed back 
at her with the usual get-off-my-
back, when-I-wanc-your-advice-1'11-
ask-for-it rhetoric, and threw in 
some feminist love-your-body theory 
for good measure. Her words stung, 
though. Only now do I see that she 
was right-not in her negative judg-
ment about my looks, but in saying 
that I really don't eat "an enormous 
amount" at school. I eat pretty 
much what I want: more during 
exams, less when I'm stressed out 
about a project or personal crisis. I 
also go to the gym three times a 
week, and would rather have a vege-
tarian entree than fried foods any 
day. But the truth is that, while I'm 
hardly obese, I have been too 
wrapped up in the rest of my life to 
deal with the "project" of disciplin-
ing my body, even if I'd wanted to. A 
wonderful concept, when you think 
about it. 

A lot of women I know have 
gained weight in college. But we've 
also gained a lot more-in self-
respect, independence, first loves, 
broken hearts, political beliefs, 
debating slcills, confidence, and expe-
rience. Isn't that something to cele-
brate? 

1&11 
Nina Morrison is a smior in Saybrook 
Co/kg~. 
Ai>RJL 10, 1992.



A WORLD OF MAGAZINES ••• 
in your own backyard. 
• INTERNATIONAL NEWSPAPERS 
• BUSINESS & COMPUTERS 
• FOREIGN PUBLICATIONS 
• FILM, PHOTO, AUDIO/ VIDEO 
• MEN'S & WOMEN' S ISSUES 
• LEISURE ACTIVITIES 
• LITERARY / SCHOLARLY JOURNALS 
• GENERAL INTEREST 
• PERFORMING & VISUAL ARTS 
• NATURE/ ENVIRONMENT 
We stock 'hard to find' ublicatians. Call Arthur Katz at (203} 624· 1 121. 
NEWS HAVEN 
P", ....... . 
• 
, . - • . 
-
- •• "'II 
. • I II I 
l 
.. _._._~,..-· 
1058 Chapel St., N•w Hawn, CT • Ber-.n Coll.ge & High Streets 
Open Mon-Thu Sam to 10pm; Fri-Sat 8om lo llpm; Sun 8am to 6pm 
ete 
. 
A 
com pI 
h a 
sa I 
1 r 
on 
c a r i n g 
people 
friendly 
atmosphere 
9 Whitney Avenue 
New Haven 
498-8271 


0 
AREA'S MOST EXCITING PHOTO CENTER 
DOWNTOWN 
930 Chapel Street 
(Corner of Temple) 
New Haven, CT•624-2599 
WESTVILLE 
1440 Whalley Avenue 
(]ct. of Rts. 63 & 69, Exit 59 off Memtt
New Haven, CT•389-1447 

