Publication date: February 2002
Volume: 34
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD:**
- PUBLISHER: Silpa Prich-14
- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Anya Kammaz
- MANAGING EDITORS: Dank/ Kurtz-Phelan, Patrick Clasquin Piltl
- DESIGNER: Tillana Fukoff
- PRODUCTION MANAGER: Carl Hungerford
- BUSINESS MANAGER: Eric Rutkow
- PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR: Jessica Cham
- ASSOCIATE EDITORS:  Blake Wilson, Matthew Underwood
- RESEARCH DIRECTOR: Jacob Blecher
- CIRCULATION AND SUBSCRIPTIONS MANAGER: Curt Carroli, Sara Hirschhorn


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

FEATURES
Small Things - Amanda Reiterman
The Devil and Daniel Greer - Jacob Blecher
Polarized - Benita Singh
God Lives on Dixwell - Daniel Kurtz-Phelan
The Last Crusade - Ellen Thompson

STANDARDS
Editor's Note
Profiles of Devotion 2.0
Roundtable: Testimony: Five Voices on Faith
The Critical Angle: These Hallowed Halls - Blake Wilson
Endnote: Yale Shrugged - Nadia Sussman


**Title: Two Master's Teas:**
**Author: Branford College**
**Page number(s): 2**

2 
Branford College 
presents 
Two Master's Teas: 
February 26 
Guns and Butter: Politics & Policy Driving 
the War on Terror 
Norma Ornstein, American Enterprise Institute 
4:00PM 
Branford College Master's House 80 High Street 
February 28 
Occidentalism 
Avishai Margalit, Hebrew University 


**Title: The New Journal**
**Author:  Various**
**Page number(s): 3**

TheNewJournal 
Volume 34, Number 4 
February 2002 
7 
16 
13 
Small Things 
Artwork and text by Amanda Reiterman 

16 The Devil and Daniel Greer 
A controversial Orthodox rabbi reclaims the ghetto. 
by Jacob Blecher 

20 Polarized 
An art installation brings race relations into focus. 
by Benita Singh 

24 God Lives on Dixwell 
Boise Kimber preaches politics from the pulpit. 
by Daniel Kurtz-Phelan 

30 The Last Crusade 
Yale Students for Christ markets a new evangelism. 
by Ellen Thompson 

STANDARDS · 
4 
5 
Profiles of Devotion 
2.0 
32 
36 
The Critical Angle: These Hallowed Halls by Blake Wilson 
38 
Endnote: Yale Shrugged by Nadia Sussman 

THE NEW JOURNAL is published five times during the academic year by THE NEW JOURNAL at Yale, Inc., P.O. Box 3-431 Yale Station, New Haven, CT 06520. Office address: 1p Park Street. Phone (203) 432-1987. All contents copyright 2001 by THE NEW JOURNAL at Yale, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Reproduction either in whole or in part without written permission of the publisher and editor-in-chief is prohibited. 

While this magazine is published by Yale College students, Yale University is not responsible for its contents. Seven thousand five hundred copies of each issue are distributed free to members of the Yale and New Haven community. Subscriptions are available to those outside the area. Rates: One year, $8. Two years, $11. THE NEW JOURNAL is printed by Turley Publications, Palmer, WA; bookkeeping and billing services are provided by Colman Bookkeeping of New Haven. THE NEW JOURNAL encourages letters to the editor and comments on Yale and New Haven issues. Write to Editorials, 3-431 Yale Station, New Haven, CT 06520. All letters for publication must include address and signature. We reserve the right to edit all letters for publication. 



**Title: Editorial: Faith**
**Author: Anya Kamenetz**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The 2001-2002 editorial board has chosen to focus its final issue on the theme of faith. We felt that questions of 
cardinal beliefs and the limits of objective knowledge, while seldom voiced, lurk in the background of everyday affairs. 

Of course, once we decided o n the theme, it started to pop up everywhere, from the President's State of the Union 
address to the exhortations of sidewalk preachers. 

Walking back from the train station a few weeks ago, I was stopped in my tracks by a poster in the window of a uni-
. form store: "Wear Your Faith ! Joyfully ... in a Murphy Choir Robe." As an intermittently disaffected Jew, I can only dream 
of a faith as comfortable and enveloping as a turquoise satin choir robe. It would allow me to blend in with an identi-
cal group of believers, while being perfectly sized to fit me. Some of our article subjects have already found that kind 
. of solace, whether in patriotism, paganism, evangelism, or Zen. 

But far more often, true belief means struggle. Unlike those robes, faith is hardly ever easily adjustable. Our panel 
participants, whether atheists or believers, were candid about their moments of personal crisis, when everything they 
thought they knew was called into question. Another shortcoming of a faith like a choir robe, for some, is that it stays 
inside the church; it isn't worn out in the street. The Orthodox rabbi in one of our features, and the Baptist preacher in 
· another, both hold religious tenets that demand strong involvement in the community. The public reaction to their pol-
itics and power plays may be mixed, but both men are convinced they have the Almighty's go-ahead. 

My last four years of working on The New journal have been truly inspiring. The devotion displayed, the impas-
sioned debates to define the core of our philosophy, and above a ll the dedication of t he mind, body, and soul to every 
activity of the magazine-writing, business, and design alike-combine elements of the monastic and fanatic. I con-
gratulate ev~ryone (especially Jessica Cohen and Matthew Underwood, who received first prize and honorable mention 
recognition in the Atlantic Monthly College Writing Competition) and wish the new editorial board a wonderful year to 
come. 

- Anya Kamenetz, Editor-in-Chief


**Title: Secrets and Lies**
**Author: Flora Lichtman**
**Page number(s): 5**

I BEGAN MY FORAY into Freemasonry on an 
ominously dark afternoon. The lodge 
loomed over Whitney Avenue like Skull 
and Bones on steroids-big and brown, 
with very few windows and two heavily 
fortified doors. I tentatively knocked my 
hand against the iron door, half-hoping 
that no one would answer. No one did. As 
I began to walk away, I noticed a Subaru 
wagon puJling into the small drive 
beside the lodge. A suspicious-
ly normal man in a 
gray sweatsuit got 
out and went to a 
side door. I fol- · · 
lowed at a respect-
ful distance and saw 
several other sweat-
pants-dad men head-
ing for the same door. 
I stopped one before he 
entered the lodge and gave my 
pitch: 
''I'm 
very 
interested 
in 
Freemasonry. Would it be possible for me 
to sit in on one of the meetings to see what 
it is aU about?" The man, about 35 with 
sandy blond hair jutting out from under 
his baseball cap, scoffed at my question. 
"This is a fraternal society, so no, you can't 
sit in." I pleaded my case, but the man 
walked past me into the lodge. Another 
man arrived. His eyes flashed wide and he 
broke into a sympathetic smile when I 
explained my predicament. He told me he 
would take me on a tour of the building, 
but I would nor be allowed to see the meet-
ing because of the "secret rituals." I walked 
in, and my stomach dropped. 

The lodge was designed, according to 
my guide, with a "Greek and Egyptian 
motif in mind." The spectacular decor was 
funded by the lodge's million-dollar 
endowment. The inside is a labyrinth of 
halls and doors. A Familiar-looking man 
popped out from one of the doors wearing 
a white jacket and white pants, with an 
emblem stitched on a loincloth that 
wrapped around his waist like a belt. He 
looked at me suspiciously; I wondered if he 
FEBRUARY 2002 
wore the outfit under his sweatsuit or had 
changed since entering the building. My 
guide and I followed a black and white 
checkered hallway co a cage-like elevator. 
As our ascent halted and the doors slowly 
opened, I found myself in an enormous 
egg-shaped room, where the Masonic 
group performs "dramatic rituals." A bur-
gundy rug covered the floor, and rows of 
green velvet chairs lined the walls. 

The center of the room was 
empty except for an 
altar. I scanned 
the 
room 
for 
bloodstains but 
didn't see any. An 
organ filled the 
back of the room, 
opposite 
a stage 
with large red chairs. 
An emblem shaped like a 
large letter "G" hung above 
them. The ceiling was painted like a 
cloudy sky, with quarter-sized holes in the 
plaster. When I asked why the lodge hadn't 
fixed the holes, my guide rold me that they 
were intentional. The holes were placed 
where stars shone on the night that the 
lodge was built 150 years ago. In each hole 
was a white light that could be rurned on 
when other lights were off. 

Masonry encourages its members to 
live virruous lives, but the riruals are highly 
secretive. Clearly I had not bumped into a 
normal mason, because my guide told me 
that he would gladly reveal the secret riru-
als. Bur he said it would do me no good 
because they are made up of symbols and 
allegories that are designed to be interpret-
ed individually. If he were to tell me about 
them, he would just be imposing his own 
inteqSretation. 

I argued that the exclusion of women 
from the fraternal society was unf.tir. To my 
surprise, my guide agreed, but told me that 
seven "members of the rite" would have to 
agree in order to admit a woman. My guide 
then told me the story of Prince Hall, one 
of George Washington's slaves who snuck 
into a Masonic meeting and saw the secret 
rituals. Washington decided that the only 
thing to do was to initiate Hall into the 
Masonic order. My guide concluded his story 
by staring straight into my eyes and telling 
me, "There is an old elevator shaft in this 
building that has openings in all the meeting 
rooms, you know." I envisioned myself scur-
rying down an elevator shafr watching mys-
terious riruals. Could I be a modern-day 
Prince Hall, the first woman to join an order 
that has been aU male for thousands of years? 

I left the lodge the way I entered it-a 
bit confused. Perhaps I'll go back to the lodge 
on a clear night and see for myself what goes 
on. Of course, I will be unable to reveal any-
thing I see. 

- Flora Lichtman


**Title: Witness**
**Author: Tori Truschrit**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

ALEJANDRO RoMERo TALKS ABOtrr SCIENCE 
with the enthusiasm of a new convert. "I find 
spirituality in aU these theories. They're so 
beautiful to me. When I see picrures come 
back from the Hubble telescope, for exam-
ple, or when I go out to the field and I look 
at narure, I don't say, 'Oh my God, this is 
wonderful, look at what God created.' I say, 
'Look at what is here that we can try to 
explain.'" 

Before arriving at Yale, Romero believed 
in a different explanation of the universe. As 
a Jehovah's Witness, he spent six hours a 
week in Kingdom Hall, the Witness equiva-
lent of church. An apocalyptic religious 
group, Jehovah's Wimesses believe that Jesus 
was the son of God, but reject the Trinity and 
conventional Christian theology. Founded in 
l872, the Watchtower Society, as the group is 
called, 
anoctpates 
coming 
of 
Armageddon, when only Jehovah's Wimesses 
will be saved. Members cannot salute the 
flag, vote, celebrate holidays, donate blood, 
or join the armed forces. Members of the 
group are also discouraged from associating 
with non-members. "For so much of my 
childhood I was very scared," Romero said, 

"because I would learn [scientific facts] and 
they made perfect sense to me. And yet I'd 
gec.home and I'd be taught that it was a sin 
co believe these things." 

. Chemistry lectures at Yale were a wel-
come alternative to constant theological 
indoctrinacion, and until this semester, 
Romero was a Molecular, Cellular, and 
Developmental Biology major. That he 
could enroll in college at all was an excep-
tion to Witness tradition; higher education 
is considered an unnecessary distraction 
from Witness spiritual goals. Romero 
recently changed his major to Theater 
Studies and has an actor's awareness of 
intense human experience, learned in part 
from years inside houses of worship. 

"When you walk into a church and you see 
these high ceilings and a gigantic cross with 
Jesus in a dramatic pose, and you hear the 
choir, and you smell the incense and you 
see the candles and you see all these peoples 
brought together in one place, how can you 
not feel something? But science gives you 
something else. Science gi~es you che 
truth." 

Truth for Romew, however, conflicts 
severely with Witness ideology, which con-
demns both his fascination with science 
and his homosexuality. He sees his parencs' 
religion as a cult and bemoans his own for-
mer indoctrination. "I used co go to school 
and see my friends and teachers and think, 
'God is going to kill them. God hares 
them."' 

Romero tugs on his shoelaces, coaxing 
them out of bow ties and pulling back on 
the loops. "To tell my parents that I was no 
longer a believer was to tell them that I was 
committing suicide. It was getting me up, 
facing my entire family, the whole congre-
gation, and saying, 'No more."' 

His eyes glaze over, ftxed on the laces. 
"To this day, certain members of my fami-
ly refuse to speak co me." He pauses, 
pulling a shoelace through a loop method-
ically. 

Suddenly, he looks up and confidence 
returns co his eyes. "I will never go back to 
believing in God, because I've found some-
thing bigger and more beautiful than 
Him." 

-Tori Truschrit


**Title: Propheteering**
**Author:  (Author not specified)**
**Page number(s): 6**

As I wALK IN, the colorful Christmas deco-
rations and slight buzz in the air remind 
me of a successful community center or a 
small company. Phones ring with business-
like regularity. Someone laughs. A young 
child interruptS her play and looks up, 
smiling ·pleasantly. Everything is spacious, 
brig~t, and clean. All in all, 
Connecticut branch of the Church of 
Scientology gives off a soothing vibe. 

''I'm glad you made it." My contact 
Donna greers me warmly. She isn't used to 
seeing many Yalies, with the church located 
so far away on the outskirtS of New Haven. 
Immediately, she pulls me into a quiet cor-
ner and happily divulges the fundamentals 
of Scientology. Scienrology is the study of 
knowledge and truth. It's ·a religious philos-
ophy aimed at improving the daily life of 
its adherentS. Their goal is "total free-
dom" -freedom from man's undesired 
emotions, from unnecessary chemicals, 
from depression and insecurity. The 
Church claims to do it all, even advertising 
itS ability to increase your IQ. But there is 
no mention of spirituality here, because 
above all the Church worships science. 

But Scientology also worships the holy 
dollar. The beige walls are plastered with 
posters advertising a dazzling array of 
courses; the shelves strain under the weight 
of the many volumes written by the 
Church's guru L. Ron Hubbard. His pres-
ence hauntS the room. The posters cry out 
his name in bold capitals; his suave, mag-
netic vo1ce echoes from a television. 

Courses can cost anywhere from $60 co 
$6oo. The Church even offers special pack-
age deals. Commit yourself co a whole 
series of courses and you may get 20 per-
cent off. The dizzying collection of price 
tags conveys a simple message: Show us 
your wallet and we'll show you who you 
are. And, more importantly, how you can 
live better. 

Donna tells me that she truly wants to 
help me. She runs me through a 200-ques-
tion personality test. A computer then eval-
uates the results, spewing out its verdict 
unmercifully: I am affiicted with pretty 
much every mental ailment that has ever 
been diagnosed. Depression. Lack of confi-
dence. 
Irresponsibility. 
Submission. 
Withdrawal. "Something needs ro be 
done," Donna tells me. She exhales softy, 
her brows furrowed with worry. She sug-
gests that I come back some other day 
when we'll start tackling these issues one by 
one. 

As I part with Donna, the office 
exudes positivity. A man whistles. A 
woman laughs. Donna herself glows in 
saintly contentment. She's happy, I think. 
She may have spent five thousand dollars to 
reach that state, or 50,000. At these prices, 
however, happiness might be something 
my money can't buy. 


**Title: Captain America**

Op COURSE I'VE SEEN HIM. That's exaccly 
why he's there--every Sunday, parading 
down Elm Street in front of Christ Church, 
clad head co roe in red, white, and blue. 
His shout like a cluster bomb, irs reach 
extending through my bedroom window, 
blocks away: USA! USA! And that other 
noise, the crack of his flag as it cutS through 
the wind. Unseen, it sounds almost like 
cackling-just what you'd expect from the 
madman on the street. 

Up close, however, the madman is 
milder. Zeqir Berisha is old, near 70, with 
a jack-o-lanrern face. His Old World smile 
is deliciously broad, with gaps berween 
each crooked tooth. His skin is worn cough 
with the weather, and his eyes seem to light



**Ziggy: A New Haven Patriot**
**Author: Matthew Underwood**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
up with the sun. He might be mad, but he's 
also gentle. He goes by Ziggy. 

An Albanian Kosovar who fled Tito's 
Yugoslavia in 1969, Ziggy speaks English as 
if it were a Slavic tongue. The words are 
correct, but the pitches are foreign, rising 
to the tone of feverish laughter and seconds 
later falling to a hoarse, conspiratorial 
whisper. 

Ziggy tells me he's not an American 
citizen, and he claims to be barred from 
returning to his native land. Yet his aile~ 
giance is dear: Srars and stripes adorn his 
bandana, his tee-shirt, his jacket, his pants, 
and his shoes. I cannot vouch for his 
undergarments, but I'd guess the assump-
tion is safe. The only departure from the 
theme is a gold medallion around his neck, 
stamped with the Albanian double-eagle. "I 
wave this flag any place because this coun-
try is the greatest nation that I see," he 
declares, filling his lungs nearly ro bursting. 
"I can smell it in mine heart." 

Ziggy has devoted his life, he explains, 
to fighting Communists-a group that 
over the course of our conversation came to 
include not only Tito, but Mikhail 
Gorbachev, Slobodan Milosovic, Osama 
fEBRUARY 2002 
bin Laden, Jesse Jackson, the entire 
Chinese nation, and the members of the 
Connecticut Coalition for Peace. The CCP 
stands in silencre across the street, holding 
signs protesting the war in Mghanistan. 

Ziggy's main critique of all of them is that 
they are irreligious. "The Communists, 
they don't have any faith," he says. "And 
they are brainwashing our people right 
here." 

Ziggy's own beliefs owe more to poli-
tics than anything else. "The Turks invade 
my country," he says, "so I am a Muslim." 
He does not practice, however, since he is 
unwelcome at the local mosque. He helped 
found a mosque in Waterbury, he explains, 
laying the foundation stones himself, but 
"they chased me out because I disagreed 
with them." The conflict arose in 1983, 
when the Reagan administration bombed 
Beruit. "One man came in to pray in the 
mosque and he was saying, 'Brother 
Muslims, they are killing our boys in the. 
Lebanon' ... I stood up and I said, 'Listen, 
this mosque is built in the United States 
and we shall pray for this country and give 
thanks to America for allowing us to pray 
here.'" Ziggy waited for someone to second 
him, but no one did. 

Years later, Ziggy is still standing 
alone. Parents stop with their children 
for a moment to hear his story, and 
Ziggy loves to be a civics lesson. They 
continue on, just as countless sup-
porters in honking sws pass by once 
the light turns green. But Ziggy is here 
for good. "''m going to stay like this 
until I die," he states firmly. He ·is a 
new and permanent feature of the 
landscape: an alien with a flag, a man 
without a church who is waging holy 
war. 


**And Keep It Holy**
**Author: Sophie Raseman**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

THE SUMMER BEFORE HER FRESHMAN 
year at Yale, Shari Goldman Gottlieb 
worked as a counselor at a Spanish 
camp in Minnesota; she . was "the 
token East Coast girl, the token Jew." 
"If you're looking for a strong Jewish 
community," she warns, "don't go to 
northern Minnesota. There was no 
context for me. I didn't know how to 
observe on my own." Just before leaving for 
Yale, Shari's religious differences became 
impossible to ignore. To christen new 
campgrounds, a Catholic priest did a bene-
diction and Shari was sprinkled with holy 
water. "They said it was appropriate 
because it was a representative religion for 
the Spanish-speaking world." 

The next day, still chilled by her 
unwanted blessing, Shari set off for her 
new life at college: "My parents drove me 
up to Yale. That night we went to Shabbat 
services at Slifka Center. I was very much 
needing a Jewish community." The 
September weeks were packed with Jewish 
holidays and Shari found herself at Slifka 
more often than not. "That was one of the 
main ways that I made friends," she said. 
When the rush of holidays subsided, Shari 
began to make observance of Jewish law a 
permanent focus of her life. 

Shari has not always been observant. 
Although she has always had faith, her par-
ents do not believe if! God and did not 
raise her to follow the practices to which 
she now adheres, such as interdictions on 
email, travel, and handling money on the 
Sabbath. Transplanting her new routine 
back home to Hollis Hills, Queens, is a 
challenge: "It's more difficult to do things 
like observe Shabbat-my parent's idea of a 
fun Saturday morning is driving around to 
Barnes and Noble and I can't do that. 
There is a personal sense of loss. But you 
have to negotiate. I'd rather bend my rules 
than boycott." 

In contrast, Shari encounters few 
roadblocks within Yale's vibrant Jewish 
community. On Friday night, students 
pour into Slifka to pray, sing, and eat. She 
dons a tallis (prayer shawl) to lead 
Conservative services, and after dinner, 
there are onegs-what she calls "Shabbat-
friendly parties"- where there is no music, 
in accordance with the proscription some 
observe against the use of electricity. 

Above all, Shabbat for Shari is a time 
for reflection and regeneration, both per-
sonal and spiritual. "It makes my whole 
week better. It gives me a break." In addi-
tion, the knowledge she has gained here 
allows her to sustain' her practice without 
the support of others. "If I were to go back 
to the camp in Minnesota now," she says, 
7 


"I would be able to observe Shabbat on my 
. own." Luckily, she does not have to do this 
at Yale. "When everyone is crazy and wan-
. dering around in their own orbits, Friday 
night, I know there is a home-base com-
munity of people who will be moving at 
a slower pace." She considers her 
entire community healthier for it. 

"I think rhe saying goes: It is not 
the Jews who have preserved 
the Sabbarh, bur the Sabbath 
that has preserved them." 


**The Calling**
**Author: Helen Phillips**
**Page number(s): 8**

"I'VE WANTED TO BE A PRIEST 
since I was a ·little kid," says 
junior 
Danielle Tumminio. 

Danielle realizes that this path is 
not an easy one: "There is a common 
perception that priests are weird." 

Organized religion is not central to 
Danielle's farriily, so she cani:IOt look to 
them for unconditional support. Initially, 
her parents tacitly opposed her possible 
career plans. In addition, as a woman she 
faces a special set of difficulties; the 
Episcopal Church offers little guidance for 
females who want to become priests. Most 
of all, she finds it difficult to reconcile her 
choices with those her peers are making 
around her. "The hardest thing for me 
about considering the priesthood at Yale is 
that I'm surrounded by so many goal-ori-
ented people who are going to go on to do 
amazing things in the world, like be politi-
cians, acuesses, well-known lawyers ... It's a 
real struggle to know that I'm never going 
to be rich or famous ... that my contribu-
tion 
will 
be at 
a 
quieter 
level." 

Nevertheless, her calling is "a pull, almost 
like being in love." 

Danielle is not the only student at Yale 
who has dreamed of this unusual vocation. 
Other students eloquently express the chal-
lenges and excitement they face when 
thinking 
about 
ordination. 
Though 
Danielle believes "this is a very spiritually-
oriented campus, in that people talk about 
religion a lot," she feels that students often 
look down on organized religion. As anoth-
er aspiring Episcopalian minister observes, 
8 

"Christianity gets the reputation of being a 
pep rally for God." A senior considering 
ordination as a Catholic priest notes, 

"Organized religion is outdated." Echoing 
this sentiment, Danielle does not "feel that 
my belief suucture has to fit the belief sys-
tem of my religious organization exactly." 

Students at Yale considering ordi-
nation are by no means 
Bible 
(or 
Torah) 
thumpers. They are 
questioners who rec-
ognize flaws 
m 
organized 
reli-
gion. 

Another 
senior consider-
ing the Catholic 
priesthood says, 
"It's a V{)cacion. I 
don't 
have 
choice about it. 
It's something I 
have ro discover. The 
idea of religious voca-
Shari Goldman Gottlieb 
cion must consume you. 
It can't be one among many 
choices. It must be that you can't see 
yourself as happy outside of religious life ... 
At the same time, people rarely think of 
ordinario.n as . a reasonable possibility for 
someone in the modern world, which can 
lead to feelings of separation from the rest 
of the world." 


**Turn the Other Cheek**
**Author: Ruth DeGolia and Lauren Stephens-Davidowitz**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

"Jp A MAN UES WITH A MAN as one lies with 
a woman, both of them h;tve done what is 
detestable" 
(Leviticus 
20:13). While teaching a 
course 
on 
the 
Old 
Testament at the Yale 
Divinity School {ms) last 
semester, Professor John 
Collins quoted this pas-
sage from the book of 
Leviticus. He explained 
that, in its literal sense, it 
appeared 
to 
prohibit 
homosexual behavior only 
between men. "As soon as 
I said this, a woman at the 
back of the class let out a 
loud sigh of relief," he 
recounts. The whole class 
broke into laughter. The incident has 
become a legend on campus. By some 
accounts, the laughter lasted for as long as 
20 minutes, revealing the high level of ner-
vousness surrounding homosexuality and 
religion-a hot topic at the Yale Divinity 
School. 

For almost two decades, YDS has stood 
with only a handful of other theological 
schools in welcoming and accepting homo-
sexual students. Unlike most schools that 
train Christian ministers, YDS is non-
denominational. According to Professor 
David Kelsey, this helps the school accept 
homosexuality. "It does make a difference 
[that Yale is] not beholden to a particular 
denomination which has issues with the 
ordination of gay people," he says. "Since 
we're not accountable in those ways, we're 
spared that sort of outside pressure." The 
Gay, Lesbian, Suaight, Bisexual Coalition 
was established in 1985, and YDS has sup-
ported it financially since its inception. 

According to students, YDS is known for 
both welcoming and enrolling more homo-
sexual students than any other divinity 
school. The Coalition's leaders, Sharon 
Fennema and Stephen Gould, say their 
organization boasts a mailing list of 55 stu-
dents and that anywhere from "five to 8o" 
attend Coalition events. 

Despite the ms's inclusive aims, its 
tolerance may be one-sided, argues first-
year Master of Arts and Religion student 
and self-described "conservative evangeli-
cal" Elizabeth Zagatta. "More conservative 
perspectives sometimes don't come out 
because people are afraid of backlash," she 
says. "Opinions have to be respected in 
both directions." However, Zagatta insisted 
that exposure to differ-
ent religious views has 
helped her explore and 
suengthen her faith. 

Such 
exposure 
grounds the decision 
of many aspiring min-
isters to attend YDS 
instead of denomina-
tional 
seminaries, 
where students focus 
on the teachings of 
their 
own 
church 
rather than broader 
ecumenical thought. 

religious 
diversity and openness 
are products of a century's worth of change. 
Founded in 1822, YDS no longer consists 
solely of "mainline Protestants" uaining for 
THE NEw JouRNAL 

the mmistry, according to Professor 
Emeritus Harry Adams. Today, students of 
Episcopalian, Roman Catholic, Baptist, 
and even atheist backgrounds study side-
by-side. In addition to the three-year min-
istry-focused Masters of Divinity (Morv) 
degree, YDS also offers a two-year Masters 
of Arts in Religion (MAR) degree for stu-
dents bound for the academy. 

Inter-denominational controversy is 
not confined to issues of homosexuality. 
The school's academic approach also sepa-
rates it from denominational seminaries. 
Instead of treating religious documents as 
the inspired word of God, many YDS pro-
fessors, including Collins, approach reli-
gious texts as historical documents. 

Operating under the assumption that 
humans authored these texts, they search 
for linguistic and anthropological clues to 
the texts' origins and their intended social 
purposes. According to Harvard Divinity 
School Professor Peter Machinist, many 
critics claim such study "cheapens the word 
of God." Some denominations even view 
such academic methods as 
heretical. For these reasons, 
conservative Christian denomi-
nations 
discourage 
prospective 
ministers 
from 
attending YDS and its peer insti-
tutions at the University of 
Chicago and Harvard, the only 
two other university-affiliated, 
non-denominational divinity 
schools. 

Among these "heretical" 
institutions, however, Yale stands 
alone in its ability to nurture the faith 
of its students because it remains, above all 
else, a Christian school. While its peers 
employ professors of Judaism, Islam, and 
Eastern religions, all YDS professors are 
Christian. According to Guy Martin, 
Associate 
Dean 
of Admissions and 
Financial Aid at YDS, this provides the 
school's community with a "common lan-
guage" for discussing theological issues. 

While conservative evangelicals and mem-
bers of the more-liberal United Church of 
Christ debate the ordination of homosexu-
al ministers, Muslims and Christians do 
not even share a common authoritative text 
on which to base theological discussion. 

According to YDS Dean Rebecca 
Chopp, Yale's peers are often seen as "really 
big religious srudies programs," while Yale 
FEBRUARY 2002 
remains a leader in purely Christian theol-
ogy. The Methodist Church, for example, 
allows its members to pursue ministerial 
studies at Yale but not at Harvard. Despite 
its reputation for being a liberal divinity 
school, Chopp said that Yale retains a 
strong tradition of evangelical participation 
because "Yale is not a place where one loses 
their faith." 

Indeed, GLSB Coalition co-coordinator 
Fennema said it was not Yale's openness but 
rather its commitment to her lifestyle that 
was the deciding factor in her decision to 
attend: "I felt like Yale was one of the few 
places where I could actually believe in 
God." 


**Centering**
**Author: Matthew Patterson**
**Page number(s): 9**

A MILE FROM STILL-SLEEPING downtown 
New Haven, three blocks past Ingalls Rink, 
and through the back door of a three-story 
blue Victorian, the 
New 
Haven 
Zen 
Center is the tranquil 
meditation room run 
by the Kwam Urn 
School of Zen. The 
room is dedicated to 
all New Haveners, 
residents and nonres-
idents alike, who seek 
tranquility at the 
beginning of an other-
wise exhausting day. 
The central question of 
Kwam Urn, according to resi-
dent Zen Master Seung Sahn, is one of 
inrrospective simplicity and profundity: 
"What are you?" 

The worshippers here are a calm, col-
orful group. From Nic Deschense, a Yale 
junior from Canada and forward on the 
varsity hockey team who lives at the center, 
to Camilla Atwood, a middle-aged postal 
worker who describes herself as utterly 
addicted to the free meditation, these peo-
ple are dedicated to the art of Zen. 

Arwood, sitting cross-legged on a soft azure 
pillow and surrounded by eleven other 
parrons aligned in rows, says she is a devout 
Christian but finds solace in connecting 
with her true meditative self. She admits 
her ignorance of Buddhist docrrine and 
likens her meditation to a sort of inner 
therapy. Membership in the Kwam Um 
School, a Korean Buddhism-based umbrel-
la organization with centers throughout the 
world, runs at $360 a year, but the casual 
walk-in like Atwood can pay nothing at all 
and still get a better sense of self-not to 
mention a soothing cup of tea. 

The day commences with an elaborate 
chanting ceremony. Korean words of 
prayer bounce off the pale walls and low 
ceilings, filling the room. Next comes med-
itation. For 30 straight minutes the room 
and its inhabitants sit perfectly still, five 
men and seven women contemplating 
nothing at all. 

Camilla describes her 30 minutes as a 
departure from the stresses of the day. 
During her moments of contemplation she 
centers her mind on the image of a crystal-
clear lake. She has attended a dozen Zen 
sessions since September n; she says she 
connects with God through prayer but can 
only learn about herself through medita-
tion. She talks easily about Seung Sahn, the 
guru ofKwam Urn in the Northeast, a pro-
lific writer, and Dae Soen Sa Nim (Great 
Honored Zen Teacher). Her reverence for 
the Center is refreshingly genuine. 

As meditation winds down, the group 
chats and sips green tea. Jobs, concerns, 
errands, and tensions may litter too much 
of the remaining day, but for a few 
moments at the center, the world sits still. 


**Rites of Spring**
**Author:  [Author Name Not Provided]**

JANE (NOT HER REAL NAME) and I had been 
walking for a half-hour. We talked a little, 
mostly about reincarnation and dreams. 
Jane was convinced she had lived other 
lives. I was not so sure, but offered my own 
thoughts-"The night seems unusually 
dark. These houses are so big. Like a dream 
.... " Jane answered, "You know, surrealism 
is not a bad thing." We were walking up 
Whimey Avenue, looking for a Unitarian 
church Jane had read about. The day was 
lmbolc, the pagan holiday dedicated to the 
"roots of spring" and the "lengthening of 
days." Jane cradled a wreath of flowers. I 
wore a backpack. The contrast between our 
appearances-her black dress and penta-
gram necklace, my boring sweater and 
jeans-made me uncomfortable. The night 
9 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Clint CarroP**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
'was holy for Jane. For me, it was just a 
weekend. 

Jane is not exactly sure why she is at 
Yale. "I'm here for a reason, that's all I 
know." Years ago a palmreader told her that 
she was destined for a life of travel and that 
she would meet many "strange, strange 
people." Taking these words as a message, 
Jane began "living life one day at a time." 
This eventually brought her to New 
Haven. 

When she was 14 Jane attended a 
religious camp in Finland. She 
lived in the woods and 
spent days reading, dis-
cussing, and embrac-
ing spirtuality. On 
the last day of 
camp 
she was 
confirmed. 
"It 
was so strange. 
While being con-
firmed, I couldn't 
understand a word 
the preacher was 
saying. It was like 
gibberish." 

Nevertheless, Jane went 
through the motions. 
Upon returning to the States, 
she immediately began looking for a 
church that was suitably "Finnish." She 
found one, and immediately rook commu-
nion. "To me, communion is one of the 
most beautiful and sacred partS of the 
Christian religion. I took it very seriously." 

During the ceremony, Jane remembers 
hearing laughter coming from the congre-
gation. "It blew me away. People were actu-
ally laughing and talking during commu-
nion. It disappointed me so much." She 
claims that it was this experience that 
changed her life. "I never thought I would 
stop being Christian, but I needed to 
reevaluate everything." Jane remembers a 
friend approaching her during this difficult 
time and posing the question that would 
ultimately help her find paganism. "My 
friend asked me, 'lf you could somehow 
control nature, if only in a small way, 
would you want to?'" Jane responded, 
"Yes." 

The church looked like a haunted 
house. Candles £lickered in the windows. 
Upon entering, we were immediately greet-
ed by the high-priestess and led to the 
kitchen, where a modest buffet had been 
laid out. Jane wandered off to meet the 
others. I kept my distance. After two lone-
ly years of worshipping alone in her dorm 
room, she was finally going to meet other 
pagans, and I did not want to fuck that up. 

The Priestess led me to the altar room. It 
was large and as cold as an icebox. 
Celtic music oozed from the 
walls. In the middle of the 
room, several people were 
assembling an altar. A 
wine-colored 
cloth 
was draped over a 
small table and held 
in place with gilded 
candle 
holders, 
flowers, wicker bas-
ketS, bowls, and a 
large white candle. 

People began trickling 
into the room. Groups 
of two or three formed in 
each corner. One woman 
talked about her mobile phone, a 
man told a story about his trip to Sweden, 
and a debate on the origins of paganism 
erupted in the nearby kitchen. As cime 
passed, the mood began to change. Dry 
conversations melted away, giving birth to 
a fantastical, collective energy. A man 
began to beat on an African drum. The 
thump-thump was infectious. Others 
grabbed drums and joined in. I was hand· 
ed a small djimbe. "Want to give it a cry?" 
I £licked the drum head softly at first. Then 
louder. Louder. Louder. Louder. The cele-
bration had begun. 

One mao slipped into gray legginS$t 
fastened a broadsword to his belt, and put 
on an olive tunic. The priestess wore a ster· 
ling head band. Jane put on a flowing black 
robe. One woman, called Sederis, wore 
jeans, a turtleneck, and white sneakers. 

People began removing their shoes and 
socks to facilitate "grounding." A man 
named John approached me. John was 
raised a Lutheran, defected, joined the


--- Page 11 ---

brotherhood of Islam, and then studied 
with an Onhodox rabbi. Now he was a 
pagan. "You should give this a try. It will be 
an experience." I kicked off my shoes and 
followed the others, taking a place in the 
back of the line that had formed just out-
side the altar room. There were probably 
twelve of us. Some held lanterns; others 
held songbooks in their hands. I could hear 
the priestess blessing the altar in the next 
room. offering water to the goddess of 
spring. 

Eventually the line began to move for-
ward. The priestess stood at the door. 
splashing devotees with scented water as 
she acceped their declarations of faith. 
When I approached her, the Priestess 
smiled. She poured water into my cupped 
hands. She touched my heart, then my 
forehead. and asked, "Do you accept the 
blessing of the goddess Breid?"' I was hesi-
tant. "Do I really have to do this? .. Her eyes 
relaxed. She nodded quiedy. I just stood 
there. Finally. I accepted and walked into 
the room. Once the Priestess had blessed 
the group. we formed a circle. We hdd 
hands-left palm down, right palm up-
and undulated as a group. like a sine wave. 
Our chant crescendoed-"The river she is 
flowing I Flowing and growing I The river 
she is flowing I Down to the sea." The man 
in the tunic walked around the room, hold-
ing his broadsword, shouting incantations. 
A man in a red cloak joined the Priestess by 
the altar. She clutched a black book bound 
in white ribbon, and read instructions. AU 
turned, saluting the four cardinal direc-
tions. Hands were raised in celebration. 

Meditation followed. We sat down 
cross-legged as the Priestess read from her 
book. I closed my eyes and listened. I was 
standing in a forest. Snow was f.Uling and it 
covered everything. Ice hung from the 
trees. The night was ominous and the road 
was nearly invisible. Suddenly, I carne to a 
dearing. There was a sparkling rock ledge. 
F1ames floated up a twisting path. I contin-
ued to walk forward. A hole appeared. 
maybe in the rock. maybe in a big tree. I 
couldn't tell. Inside the hole, I saw a light. 
Long flowing hair. The promise of green. I 
was &lling asleep. I was falling into a voice. 
I 
was heavy like granite. I was the ground, 
just like I was supposed to be. 

I woke up with a start. "New life .... " 

The priestess pronounced a reawakening. 
Now, the ceremony became intensely per-
sonal. One by one, we approached the 
altar. Like the others, I knelt, said a prayer 
for my f.unily, and placed a polished shell 
in a basket for the goddess. Some bowed 
low before the altar. Others prayed long 
and hard. Some cried. Everyone took a 
"healing cloth," a gift from the goddess to 
be used before the next full moon. I 
dripped hot wax into a flat saucer and 
stood my candle upright before returning 
to the circle. 

The man in the red cloak approached 
each person, handing them a cookie. "May 
you never hunger." All responded, "And 
may you never hunger." The priestess 
passed a chalice of ale clockwise from per-
son to person. "May you never grow 
thirsty." Most took long, almost sensual 
drinks ftom the cup. The ale smelled of 
raspberries. Some saluted the goddess as 
they drank, raising the cup as one would 
toast a young bride. A few prayed in 
silence. I was the last one to be offered a 
drink. I politely declined. The priestess 
seemed confused-maybe hurt-but I just 
could not do it. The magic of the night had 
worn off, and I was too aware that I was an 
outsider, not even half-pagan. Though 
intrigued, I was cold, exhausted, and con· 
fused. 

The journey ended there. Jane had 
found others. She had found a path that I 
was not willing to travel. Leaving the 
church, I stumbled into the street. The 
night was still surreal. Now, the extreme 
darkness and giant houses were comple-
mented by the lingering smell of a cold 
sanctuary and memories of a dream-like 
service. "Surrealism is not a bad thing." 
Jane's words sort of made sense now. 


**Title: BV Amo.ndo. neitermo.n**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
BV Amo.ndo. neitermo.n 
You see, 
we LaUd our lives 
•ihe Small~ 
., 


**Title: On ibe Small Tbmgs.**
**Page number(s): 14**

14 
On ibe Small Tbmgs. 
The Thingl ilat awaiatyou, 
!J~ you moving, 
.keep you wat~Mul. 
THE NEw JouRNAl- I


**Title: Eacla .+ep**
**Page number(s): 15**

Eacla .+ep 
11M·.t£at pot~ial. 



**Title: A controversial Orthodox rabbi reclaims the ghetto**
**Author: Jacob Blecher**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T HE LIGHTS ARE OIM, AND THE AIR IS STALE. Fallen pieces of 
ceiling crumble on the faded carpet that covers the basement 
floor. An old smoke detector intermittently emits a faint beep. 
"People actually used to inhabit this pl'!.ce," Rabbi Daniel Greer, 
who recently bought the properry, tells me as he points to a tiny 
kitchen with an abutting shower stall. "Six families." We walk 
upstairs, past heaps of unread newspapers, to another kitchen, 
where mice have burrowed through the cabinets. Greer explains 
that slumlords once made staggering profits off the house, just 
blocks northwest of Yale, collecting rents of $650 a month through 
federal housing subsidies. 

Now Greer, an ultra-Orthodox Jew, holds the deed to this 
dilapidated Edgewood area residence, and he plans to renovate it 
fully-a job that could cost $10o,ooo and take two years to com-
plete. But Greer's compassion for 36 Brownell St. is hardly that of 
a devoted architecruralist. For over a decade he has amassed ruined 
houses in his neighborhood, gutting and refurbishing them before 
renting them out. Greer presently controls a veritable empire of 30 
properties in the warren of residential streets between Edgewood 
Park and Whalley Avenue. 

Depending on whom you ask, Greer's real estate dominion has 
been a godsend, a curse, an enigma, or maybe all three. Since the 
project began, properry values in Edgewood have stabilized, 
crime-specifically prostitution and drug dealing-has decreased, 
and houses that once sat in ruin have received stylish makeovers. 
But charges of racism have been swirling around the enterprise ever 
since Greer challenged the ciry housing authority's placement of 
Gracie White, a black woman, in a house on his street. Some mem-
bers of the black communiry have branded Greer a separatist-an 
epithet they believe is aptly symbolized by the imposing, eight-foot 
fences that surround his properties. 

Greer is used to controversy. In 1997, he helped instigate and 
carry out the bitter and unsuccessful "Yale Five" lawsuit, in which 
four Orthodox undergraduates (the ftfth dropped out) sued Yale 
because the Universiry had not exempted them from mandatory 
on-campus housing, which they claimed forced them to break their 
interpretation ofJewish law by living in close proximity to members 
of the opposite sex. Greer's daughter Batsheva and family friend 
Elisha Hack were among the litigants. 

Through it all, Greer's renovation project has developed steadi-
ly. 

Construction crews are currently painting, hammering, and 
sawing away at fom sites, and several other properties, including 36 
Brownell St. and a three-story office building on Whalley Avenue, 
are on the waiting list for repairs. Greer openly boasts that he has 
established a "well-run housing authoriry" that no government 
agency could match. Whether his enterprise will better Edgewood, : 
however, is unclear. 

G REER FIRST CAME TO NEW HAVEN 41 YEARS AGO tO attend Yale 
Law School, where he roomed with future California gover-
nor and Presidential aspirant Jerry Brown. After a whirlwind tour 
of Wall Street, New York Mayor John Lindsay's administration (as 
Depury-Mayor for Ports and Terminals), and war-torn Israel, where 
Greer was ordained, he returned to New Haven in 1976 with his 
family and settled in Edgewood, a neighborhood with a burgeoning 
Jewish presence. Greer resisted the urge to _which so many New 
Haven Jews had succumbed: to move to the comfort of the ciry's 
outskirts. He chose instead to brave a harsh urban atmosphere, one 
historically plagued by poverry, drugs, and prostitution. 

Greer had grand hopes for Orthodox Judaism in Edgewood 
when he arrived. Disappointed with the local religious school offer-
ings, he founded his own school, called the Gan (Hebrew for "gar-
den"), in order to educate his children in accordance with his strict 
interpretation and observance of Jewish law. Greer's political skills 
and remarkable connections-he served on the city police commis-
sion and was close with then-Mayor Ben DiLieto-paid off. In 1982 
the ciry sold an Edgewood school to him-without a public bid-
for a paltry $35,000. Greer moved the Gan into the massive, red-
brick building (which required an eight-year, $1.5 million renova-
tion) and eventually renamed it the Yeshiva of New Haven. He 
became the rabbi of the Yeshiva shu!, or synagogue. 

But what of Greer's vision of Judaism? On the outside, Greer 
does not conform to the ultra-Orthodox stereotype of black hats 
and long coats, but he does seek a very radical inward orthodoxy. 
"There was a beautiful world," he told me, "a world of Eastern . 
Europe where there was the intensiry and seriousness and commit- . 
ment to Judaism which was lost ... We feel very strongly that to be : 
Jewish you have to be really Jewish ... We're trying to restore a 
world that no longer is." In the ominous-
ly-tided book jew vs. jew, which chronicles 
the "Yale Five" suit (and which sits on a 
shelf in Greer's office), Greer confirmed his 
highly intellectual and unusual conception 
of Judaism. He told the author Samuel 
Freedman, "We want to recall the world 
we've 
been cut off from 
by 
the 
Enlighten ment .... " 

But if the "Yale Five" incident is any 
indication, Greer's uncompromising devo-
tion seems to surpass even that of most 
Orthodox Jews. The suit sent shockwaves 
through the New Haven Jewish communi-
ty, alienating many who saw Greer's aggres-
siveness and· con-
' 
demnation ofYale as too extreme. th 
t h k 
· h" b 
k 
Steven W ilf serves 
e goa S 
e eeps In 
IS ac 
as one example. 
An Orthodox Jew 
who sent his chil-
dren to the Gan school, Wilf moved five 
years ago from Edgewood .to Westville, a 
popular Orthodox neighborhood that is. 
He thinks that Greer has welcomed con-
tention in order to foster a stronger Jewish 
identity in his community. "It's a model of 
separation-a 19th century European 
model-in which individuals feel a need to 
separate and often polarize through the 
rejection of various things, like Yale, 
modernity, or liberalism," he told me. "It 
is most certainly not the model in New 
Haven." Many Jews, he thinks, have found 
Greer's struggles irrelevant, and so too his 
Edgewood community. 

S oon AFTER THE GAN MOVED, Greer 
says, it became evident that his 
school and synagogue, and with it his life 
in Edgewood, could not flourish if prosti-
tution, drug dealing, and other crimes per-
sisted. So he and a number of other con-
cerned neighbors resorted to some extreme, 
even brutal, measures. 
They began 
patrolling the neighborhood in their cars, 
hoping to spot prostitutes and their johns. 
Whenever they found a john, they would 
take photographs and coax the police to 
make an arrest. They also established the 
"John of the Week" program, in which they 
would hang up posters with the names and 
addresses of arrested men in their own sub-
urban neighborhoods. Evan Stark, a for-
mer Edgewood resident and ward co-chair, 
says that at one point Greer even hired a 
security company to watch the streets. 
Greer fiercely denies that allegation, but 
Alderwoman Elizabeth McCormack con-
firmed Stark's story. 

Soon afterwards, Greer began purchas-
ing houses, usually for between $2o,ooo 
and $8o,ooo. At first he bought up homes 
around the Gan School as dormitories. But 
soon he sec his sights on other parts of the 
neighborhood. When I asked Greer about 
his motivations, he pointed to the slum 
economy-a "bad system" that he says fos-
ters crime and instability in the real estate 
market. "We realized that ultimately if we 
didn't start doing something to the infra-
structure of the 
neighbor -
hood-namely 
the housing-
we 
weren't 
going to make a 
real dent," he 
says. While he tapped government funding 
programs 
like 
Neighborhood 
Assistance Act, Connecticut Housing 
Finance Authority, and city block grants-
ranking among the top individual recipi-
ents of all state money-he used his City 
Hall connections and tax and real estate 
law expertise to begin expanding his prop-
erty holdings. His deft use of several non-
profit corporations-Edgewood Village 
Inc., FOH Inc. (Friends of HaGan), 
Edgewood Corners Inc., Edgewood-Elm 
Housing, The Gan School, Barak Joseph 
Morand Zelinsky Memorial Fund, and 
Edgewood Properties-allowed him to 
raise even more funds and to bid on hous-
es more covertly. 

By the mid '9os, Greer's unique role as 
both real estate mogul and civic watchdog 
had become apparent. He and his "peoplen 
began planting and watering dozens of 
trees around the neighborhood and picking 
up trash on the streets and sidewalks. In 
2000, the year the New Haven R~gist(l' 
dubbed Greer the "Mayor of Edgewood,n 
he sued the owners of a house of prostitu· 
tion run by cwin brothers. After working 
with the police to put the two in jail, Greer 
ultimately took over the property, and now 
counts it among his many trophies. 

G reer is actually something of an aes-
. thete when it comes to the renova-
tion of his houses. Like an expert sales:. 
man, he brags about the detailed, elegant 


**Title: The Edgewood Enigma**
**Author: Jacob Blecher**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
work his crews have done. "Everything's 
new," he explained as he showed me 
through a "gingerbread" Victorian resi-
dence on Elm Street that he recently began 
restoring. He has added new windows, 
new floors, new tiling in "New Period" 
bathrooms, a new roof (a 4o-year, he notes, 
as opposed to a mere 20-year), and new, 
hand-painted ballisters. 
Upstairs, he 
showed me a set of windows that he per-
sonally designed to prevent small children 
from falling out. "It's really a lot of fun to 
fix up houses," he exclaimed gleefully. "It's 
like Legos on a large scale." 

As we stood on the newly finished 
floor of another house on Edgewood 
Avenue, Greer pointed out an old stained-
glass window that the previous owner had 
covered in paint. One of Greer's workers 
cleaned the glass and framed it in wood 
that matches the original paneling of the 
room. This attention to detail is almost an 
obsession for Greer. Throughout my tour, 
he hurled order afrer order at his son 
Eliezer, who comes home from Brown 
every weekend to help out. 

The workforce creating these immacu-
late homes is f.Urly diverse: One day I 
found a mixed-gender group of Eastern 
European immigrants painting a house. 
Greer offers only that he employs "full-time 
workers" from construction firms. When I 
asked about tenants, he answered that he 
rents to the "public" -which he assured me 
includes both Jews and other minorities-
for "low market" prices. His requirements 
for rental are similarly vague: "Stability, 
reliability, good track-record." 

But even if Greer rents f.Urly according 
to the law, his project looks suspiciously 
like gentrification. He is known for exert-
ing rigid control over his properties. When 
one tenant altered the landscaping in the 
yard, Greer evicted and sued him. 

According to McCormack, Greer threw 
out a group of Southern Connecticut State 
University students who had been throw-
ing parties. Edgewood residents tell stories, 
as well, about Greer's lack of sympathy for 
his neighbors. When Stark wrote Greer a 
letter that expressed concern about the tall 
fences he installs on every property, Greer 
refused to speak with him. 

In another, 
more bizarre instance, neighbors around 
Greer's own residence complained that the 
goats that he keeps in his backyard were 
emitting a foul smell. 
FURUARY 2002 
Greer admits he is "not a saint." He finds that safe streets and stable rents 
make life better for students at his school and for members of his congrega-
tion. He stands a better chance of sustaining his ultra-Orthodox com-
munity in the more secure environment his housing empire and 
tireless work has created. But if the houses improve the neigh-
borhood, he asks, what is the harm? Greer has dubbed 
this philosophy "entrepreneurial, nonprofit 
self-interest." 

Quoting the Book of Jeremiah and Rabbi 
Hillel, Greer tells me that institutions have an 
obligation to tend to their neighborhoods. 
"We've got to do something for the neighborhood 
in which we live," he says. 

Why? Because local 
groups get the job done better than "unimaginative, 
bureaucratic" government. Greer told Freedman the 
very same thing. "Government can't do," he said. "It 
can only assist. And where it arrogates to itself the idea 
of running families, schools, cities, it makes them 
worse. It destroys more than it builds." 

0 
N FEBRUARY 1, 2002, GEORGE W. BusH named 
Jim Towey the new head of the White House 
Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives. 
In doing so, he revived a program that had laid the ~"i~~~~~~!~!!~~~~~= 
foundation for the "compassionate conser-
{ 
varism" upon which he built his presidential 
campaign. Bush's words at the announce-
ment of the hiring perfectly echo Greer's 
views 
on 
religion 
and 
politics. 
"Government cannot stand in the way of 
the good works of the people in our neigh-
borhoods," he said. 
"Government must 
expedite and stand on the side of faith-based 
programs. We should not discriminate at the 
federal level against people who are trying to help 
us solve the nation's problems." 

But in eschewing one kind of "discrimina-
tion," Bush's support of f.Uth-based groups Like 
Greer's opens up entirely new realms of discrimi-
nation. Greer is free to rent to whom he likes, to 
evict whom he hates, and, in effect, to shape a 
community that conforms to his own interests and 
ideals with Little, or no, accountability. Greer's 
attempt to strengthen Edgewood has made it less 
democratic. "One has to be careful not to have the 
state take over for the Almighty," he admitted in 
Freedman's book. Ultimately, the fate of Edgewood 
rests in the hands of one man alone. 
Ia] 
jacob Bkcher; a sophomore in 
Davmport Colkge, is research director 
forTNJ. 


**Title:  Silence in New Haven**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

A
RTISTS BRADLEY McCALLUM AND }ACQU.EUNE 'TARRY are no 
strangers to controversy. Seated in their Brooklyn studio, 
Tarry remains pensive as she flips through their portfolio. "It's 
impossible to talk about our artwork without talking about it in the 
arc of public response and exchange," she says as she turns to 
McCallum, her husband and collaborator. "The work we do here," 
she says slowly as she looks across the loft, which rises above the 
blaring trucks of the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway, "can become 
irrelevant when the audience takes over." 

When Helen Kauder of A.rtSpace, a New Haven arcs center 
that showcases new works, invited McCallum and Tarry to partici-
pate in Citywide Open Studios in New Haven this past fall, no one 
foresaw how acute and overpowering the "arc of public response" 
would be. Commissioned to create an installation in the historic 
Center Church on the Green for the week-long arts festival, the 
husband-wife team was inspired by the church's recent apology for 
slaveholding among its members in the 18th and 19th centuries. 

Their resulting work Silmu is a series of 19 photographs of current 
members of Dixwell Avenue United Church of Christ-the first 
African-American church in New Haven. 

McCallum and Tarry's exhibit, intended to be displayed for 
one month, symbolically granted a long-overdue wish to Center 
Church's black congregants of centuries past, who had been restrict-
ed to the balcony. The sepia-tone photographs, enlarged to greater 
than life-size and mounted on posts, were scattered across the pews 
of Center Church's main sanctuary. Silmc~, with its images of 
Dixwell Church's present members bearing solemn faces and 
dressed in 18th century garb, stood in stark contrast to the church's 
sporless white walls. It clashed with the red carpet. And it was 
indeed powerful, perhaps more powerful than anyone expected. 

U 
NLIKE TliElR ART, McCallum and Tarry's studio is easily over-
looked. Their working and living quarters occupy the wp 
floor of a brick warehouse and are hidden among the wholesale 
markets of Brooklyn's Navy Yard. Entering the loft, one meets an 
array of their previous work-manholes, tombstones, call boxes--
as well as the pervasive smell of fish from the market one floor 
below. 

Together, McCallum and Tarry comprise ConjunctionA.rts, "a 
nonprofit artS organization that is dedicated to supporting. devel-
oping and presenting community-based art that fosters civic dia-
logue." Five years ago, McCallum, then a recent graduate of the Yale 
School of Fine Arts and an artist-in-residence with the American 
Civil Liberties Unjon, was inspired to create a work in response to 
New York's mounting concern with police btuta1ity. He solicited 
Tarry's help, and together the duo created Wit7Uss. Completed CWO 


--- Page 21 ---

years after the ronure of Abner Louima in a Brooklyn precinct and 
two months after the fatal shooting of Amadou Oiallo in the Bronx, 
Witness consisted of 20 brick-red booths with telephones inside. 
The call boxes were located around the city where people died in 
confrontations with New York City police. When lifted, the 
receivers played testimonies of victims' encounters with police bru-
tality. 

When one of the call boxes was placed outside the United 
States Courthouse in downtown Manhattan, federal marshals, 
despite the city's explicit approval of the project, refused to allow it 
to remain. Spokespersons for former New York Mayor Rudolph 
Giuliani referred to the project as "a disgrace." 

S 
ILENCE UNNERVED NEW HAVEN THE SAME WAY THAT Witness 
shook New York. In both cities, McCallum and Tarry's work 
was overshadowed by public response. And in both cities, the act 
provoked enough outrage to bring about its own demjse. 

Just one week after its opening, Silnzce was removed due to 
complaints by the congregation that its images blocked the view of 
the pulpit and were damaging the pews. So the story goes. However, 
in an interview with the New J1,rk Times, Reverend Shepherd 
Parsons at Center Church suggested that Silnzce did much more 
than block rhe view of the pulpit. "When I walked in and saw it, I 
gasped," Parsons stated. Whether because of its physical or symbol-
ic presence, Silence made people uncomfortable. 

The congregation's reaction, however, was nor disclosed to 
either AnSpace or the artists themselves. According to Kauder, 
"after the work had already been on display for two worship ser-
vices, and I inquired how the project was going, the heartfelt reply 
was: 'It's wonderful!' If there were other views of the project, they 
were kept silent until the abrupt about-face." The church moved 
rhe photos to the balcony. The audience of Silnzce had indeed taken 
over. 

Even to the artists, whose previous work has attracted national 
attention, New Havens reaction was unprecedented. "This was the 
first time," McCallum reflected as he looked through slides of their 
interrupted exhibit, "where the narrative and process of our work 
was decided by circumstances outside of our control. Never in our 
wildest dreams did we think that Center Church, who asked for our 
presence, would dismantle and remove the installation without con-
sulting us. Their choice has an irony that is hard to escape." 

When McCallum and Tarry discovered that Silnzce had been 
removed, they thought it only proper to participate in the discourse 
they had incited. They constructed tombstones out of plaster bear-
ing the names of those who left Center Church in the 1820s to form 
Dixwell Avenue United Church of Christ. The tombstones, 



**Silence: A Public Art Exhibit in New Haven**
**Author: Benita Singh**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
shrouded in black lace, were installed in 
Center Church's balcony, alongside the 19 
relegated photos. Meanwhile, the op-ed 
pages of the New Haven Register discussed 
the significance of the work's removal. 
Frank Harris, a Register columnist and 
journalism 
professor 
at 
Southern 
Connecticut State University, viewed the 
incident as "indicative of the way many 
white Americans do not want to talk about 
slavery. We have a constant desire to forget 
about the past." 


D 
lXWELL AVENUE UNITED CHURCH 
stands a · mile and a half north of 
Center Church on the Green. The newly 
relocated Silence will soon be on display 
inside. 
Dixwell Church is one of the largest 
predominantly African-American churches 
in New Haven. It is situated next to an 
abandoned, gated yard and the Elm Haven 
Housing Project. Directly across the street 
is the blighted Dixwell Plaza. Founded in 
1829, Dixwell Church was conceived by 
Simeon 
S. 
Jocelyn, 
a 
white 
Congregationalist and member of Center 
Church. After witnessing the mistreatment 
of blacks at Center Church, Jocelyn took 
up their cause by holding private services 
for African-Americans in his own home. 
Nine years later, Jocelyn, along with a 
group of 19 black congregants, started the 
Temple Street Church, later to be known as 
the 
Dixwell 
Avenue 
Congregational 
Church. 


s 
t 
Q c y 
The 19 photographs of Silence symbol-
ize Dixwell Church's 19 founders, and as 
symbols they have taken on lives of their 
own. In the same way that the African-
American members of Center Church were 
forced from the main floor to the balcony, 
Silence, without the consent of its creators, 
was banished to the balcony before its relo-
cation to Dixwell. Some might say that if 
Center Church was in fact trying to forget 
its flawed past, it failed. In the end, Center 
Church repeated its past. 


However, according to the Reverend 
John H. Scott of Dixwell Church, what 
took place at Center Church was no more 
than "a huge misunderstanding." Brushing 
aside the high-minded and moralizing ten-
dencies of the artists and critics alike, Scott 
believes that critics of Center Church's 
decision disregard the church's purely prac-
tical concerns. "If the pictures weren't on 
the pews, it would have been an entirely 
different story," Scott maintains. Of 
course, the photographs, including depic-
tions of Scott and his son, will seem even 
more imposing in his own, smaller church. 
Scott's voice sounds weary from trying to 
convince too many cynics that the events of 
the past months are not a case of history 
repeating itself. "Center Church is a very 
progressive, loving, and uplifting church. 
They are open and affirming," he says, 
"Each congregation has the. right to deter-
mine what is best for their church." 


Scott's point seems valid. Race rela-
tions, in any city, cannot be reduced to 
black and white, nor can they be accurate-
ly represented by cardboard cutouts. 
Center Church on the Green is in fact con-
sidered a progressive church by many, 
which is part of the reason it was originally 
invited to host Silence. It has been praised 
for irs encouragement of the local unions, 
and it supported "Yale, Slavery and 
Abolition," a report published by three Yale 
graduate students which described Yale's 
past relationship with slaveholders. 


The belief that race relations cannot 
be simplified cehainly works both ways. It 
was only six months ago that Center 
Church appointed its first African-
American layman. Reaching back to the 
19th century, Jocelyn, whom Scott praises 
for his humanitarian impulses, originally 
founded Temple Church not because he 
believed that blacks deserved equality per 
se, but because he thought that moral dis-
cipline among the African-American popu-
lation was in decline. Jocelyn is remem-
bered as both a founder of the first African-
American Church in New Haven and an 
active 
member 
of 
American 
Colonization Society, which advocated the 
return of freed slaves to Liberia. 


"We may not always realize the ways 
in which history impacts the way we act 
today," McCallum says. According to 
Harris, Silence and its distance from Center 
Church reflect the separation, created with 
the formation of Dixwell Church, between 
African-American and white churches in 
New Haven. "Throughout New Haven," 


Harris says, "we can sec black churches on 
the outskirts of the city and white church-
es in the center." One cannot help but 
reflect on the deeper significance of 
Sikncls displacement. The mere represen-
tations of black church members, 173 years 
after the creation of Dixwcll Church and 
the onset of segregation by choice, could 
not be accepted as part of Center Church's 
congregation or as part of its history. As 
Harris says, "I guess it's easier to forget." 


McCallum and Tarrf, on the other 
hand, want people to remc~mber. "Exhibits 
like Siknu," McCallum says, "bring up 
serious questions about private and public 
spaces." "The congregation of Center 
Church was forced to engage with 
[Siknce]," says Tarry. "They didn't really 
have any choice." The phoros, in the 
church's center, demanded confrontation 
and recognition. 


Still, New Havencrs like Reverend 
Scott insist that Center Church's decision 
was simply practical. If there is a divide 
between Dixwell Church and Center 
Church on the Green, the 
members of the churches 
themselves do not sense it. 
At the service commemorat-
ing the 17oth anniversary of 
DixweU Church's founding, 
Center Church's Parsons 
delivered a sermon with 
Scott. 


Scott remains con-
vinced that searching for a 
deeper meaning behind the 
story of Siknce would be 
misguided. "It's always good 
to lift up history," Scott 
says, "but the exhibit posed 
problems that we did not 
contemplate." 


But the intention of 
Siknce was co do just that. 
While some object to the 
aggressive agenda of public 
art like Siknce and Witness, 
McCallum 
and 
Tarry 
believe that they have a duty 
to fulfill. "As artists," Tarry 
asserts, "we have a responsibility to go 
beyond what a historian would do-
beyond a didactic instruction. We have to 
create something that makes the viewer 
question. We have to engage dynamics that 
are lasting." To McCallum, Center 
Church's claim that Siknu blocked the 
view of the pulpit remains baseless. "If you 
have 19 people in a church that siz.c, it feels 
empty," McCallum states, "With these 19, 
the church somehow felt full?" 


T 
ARRY AND McCALLUM KNOW THEIR 
work in New Haven is far from com-
plete. "We have a responsibility to see the 
artwork through 
to another stage," 
McCallum says. T he couple, along with 
Artspace, 
worked 
with 
Community 
Mediation of Fair Haven to help facilitate 
an interracial dialogue dealing specifically 
with Siknce. Far from becoming embit-
tered, Tarry and McCallum were motivated 
by their experience in New Haven to fur-
ther explore race relations through public 
art. "The sequence of events that took 
place in New H aven was the first step in a 
national project," Tarry affirms. The cou-
ple's next exhibit will travel the route of the 
Underground Railroad, playing the testi-
monies and recreating the stories of the 
descendants of slaves, bondsmen, and abo-
litionists. 


Back in their Brooklyn studio, 
McCallum takes a deep breath as he finish-
es telling his own swry. "The easiest thing 
for Center Church to do," he reflects, 
"would be to wait for this all to disappear. 
Just close their eyes and wait till it goes 
over." But Siknce has shown that the lega-
cy of slavery will not long remain unseen. 

**First Calvary Baptist Church**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 24**

arxvvell 
AT 
II AM ON SuNDAY, when the morning worship service is 
scheduled to begin, the pews at the First Calvary Baptist 
Church are only half full, and there are as many people fidgeting on 
the pulpit as there are in the congregation itself. A smaJI boy, no 
older than ten, sirs behind a sprawling drum ser, impatiently tap-
ping a cymbal. In front of him, another picks at a keyboard. Several 
men in dark suits lounge listlessly behind a podium, glancing occa-
sionally at gold watches or flashing subtle smiles ro members of the 
congregation. Then, the First Calvary Baptist Church explodes. 


A choir, made up of large women with thick glasses and tiny 
girls with cornrows, gyrates righteously onto the stage, flowing 
through three rows of chairs on the right while belting out a hymn, 
fists raised to the roof. The choir-master is a skinny man in a green 
swearer, and the Spirit apparently has him possessed; he flails and 
gesticulates wildly, echoing his choir with arnens and hallelujahs, 
eyes closed, knees bent, and face turned toward God. The key-
boardist pounds our gospel chords to the drum's swinging bear. 


The rest of the room, as if on cue, starts ro fill up and come 
alive. Leather soles tap on the linoleum floor. The congreganrs-all 
of them black--clap their hands and swing their hips, tentatively ar 
fuse, and shout out the occasional "Praised be the Lord!" Toddlers 
bounce on the church benches, teenagers shift and giggle, hunched-
over old men shake and sing. The music rises in waves of old-time 
religion, and as the opening hymn nears crescendo, the gangly 
choirmaster jigs on stage, stomping and spinning and jerking to the 
hoots and shouts of the congregation. There is no cross--or any 
other trace of Christianity, for that matter-behind him; instead, 
the scene is dominated by a sound console, the drumset, and two 
massive, pulsating speakers on either side. 


As the choir belts our "To God Be the Glory" in frantic repeti-
tion, a man in a black suit, black shirt, black tie, and gold-framed 
glasses rises and approaches the podium slowly and deliberately. He 
is not tall, but has the build of a linebacker-a thick neck and 
meaty hands which he periodically thrusts into the air. When he 
reaches the podium, he presides with quiet control. His left arm is 
still raised, the fist clenching and unclenching. He surveys his con-
gregation with a subversive grin, his &arne swinging and dipping co 
the music. And as the organ and the wails of the choir gradually die 
out, the Reverend Or. Boise Kimber begins to preach. 


Kimber has a perfect preaching voice, a low and raspy growl 
with a trace of a Southern accent. In the style of Martin Luther 
King, Jr., AI Sharpton, and Jesse Jackson, he seems co add an exrra 
syllable of emphasis to the end of every other word, affecting a 
cadence that builds slowly toward rapture. Bur the reverend's topic 
at the moment is not devotion or the Bible. He is riffing from the 
pulpit on politics-good, old-fashioned, lowdown-and-dirty poli-
tics. 


B 
OIS£ KIMBER IS ONE OF THE MOST EFFECTIVE COMMUNITY 
leaders and political organizers in New Haven. The local 
press describes him as a "kingmaker," and Mayor John DeStefano 
counts him as a close friend and crucial ally. But these same qual-



**Title: The Reverend's Reign**
**Author: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
By Daniel Kurtz-Phelan 
ities have brought Kimber under suspicion. The New Haven 
AdvocatL" has labeled him a "bully," "favorite felon," and "neighbor-
hood patronage wheeler-dealer." He heads the Greater New Haven 
Clergy Association and has been intimately involved in city devel-
opment programs ranging from the Livable City Initiative (LCI) co 
the Hazel Street Development Corporation, a City Hall-sponsored 
nonprofit whose programs include homeownership promotion and 
job training. Last month, he was appointed Fire Commissioner. In 
a city where the clergy plays an unusually large role in politics and 
labor issues, Kimber is notorious for his charisma and effectiveness. 
Yet over the past five years IGmber's name has been regularly asso-
ciated with public scandal and government corruption. In 1998, he 
came under suspicion of embezzling city funds. In 1996, the rev-
erend was convicted of stealing over $4,000 of an elderly woman's 
burial money while running a funeral home owned by a jailed 
friend. 

The First Calvary Baptist Church is just one of dozens of 
churches on Dixwell Avenue which has made an abandoned store-
front ics home. The brick building where the church now resides 
housed a restaurant, a cleaners, and an insurance agency before First 
Calvary took over. It is located in the heart ofNewhallville, a neigh-
borhood just a few miles up Dixwell from Yale University. 
Newhallville--as Kimber never hesitates to point out-has consis-
tently ranked as one of the poorest communities in the state and, at 
times, in the nation. 

I am waiting to meet the reverend at First Calvary on a Sunday 
afternoon. Kimber pulls up co his church in a sleek silver Lincoln 
Continental and steps out in a black trench coat and black fedora. 
He shakes my hand and leads me to his office, a small room just off 
the main hall with buzzing fluorescent lights. The walls are covered 
in photographs-Kimber shaking hands with N Sharpcon, hud-
dling with David Dinkins and Jesse Jackson, standing next to 
Marion Barry. To the right of the large desk that dominates the 
room, there is a painting of Marcin Luther King, Jr .. Directly 
behind the desk hangs a painting of Kimber himself--one in which 
the Newhallville reverend bears a striking resemblance to the leader 
of the civil rights movement, whom Kimber compulsively cites as 
his role model. 


After growing up in Alabama and 
attending seminary in Ohio, Kimber 
arrived in New Haven almost 20 years ago. 
"I carne into the ministry not knowing that 
it would lead me into being this involved in 
the process of liberating people and orga-
nizing people," Kimber tells me. But from 
the moment he arrived in New Haven to 
minister at the Pitts Chapel Unified Free 
Will Baptist Church, the Reverend found 
political involvement unavoidable. "The 
black church," he explains, "is the largest 
institution that black folks have." Kimber 
leans back in his chair and clasps his hands 
together, talking with the certainty and 
vision of a good politician. "Some people 
ask, 'Why is the church involved in poli-
tics?' Well, someone has to be a voice to try 
to liberate people and try to help those who 
are disenfranchised. If we ever really get 
organized, we will suddenly become a force 
within the political arena." Most observers, 
however, quickly point out that that has 
already happened. Kimber's clergy associa-
tion, a primarily black organization, mobi-
lizes huge numbers of minoriryvot-
ers in election years, demand-
ing attention 
from local 
politicians. As one New 
Haven mmtster said, Kimber and his 
cohorts are "all about getting pastors 
together and organizing huge press confer-
ences." Union-affiliated ministers like 
Lillian Daniel and Scott Marks present a 
different leadership model. Heading orga-
nizations like Elm Ciry Congregations 
Organized and the Connecticut Center for 
a New Economy, these ministers are pivotal 
to the union organizing effort that is cul-
minating in the acrimonious labor negotia-
tions currently under way with Yale. As one 
labor organizer cold me, "The church is the 
. 
" 
umon. 

Kimber's nororiery as a reader has 
stemmed from his close, and at times con-
troversial, relationship with DeStefano. 
The reverend, of course, attributes his asso-
ciation with the Mayor to the benefits that 
DeStefano has brought to New Haven. "I 
think he is one of the better administrators 
this ciry has ever had," Kimber says. "He's 
included people in the process. Regardless 
of what people have said, this mayor has 
been real. inclusive." Kimber, however, also 
tends to downplay his connection with 
DeStefano, painti"ng himself as a political 
maverick out for nobody other than the 
people in his comrp.uniry. "I don't work for 
Ciry Hall. I don't work for the 
state 
of 
Connecticut," 
Kimber emphasizes. He 
takes aim at ciry government, 
Yale, the unions-anyone, it 
seems, who doesn't play according 
to his rules. With only a little 
prompting, he says. "Yale has to do more 
chan say that it wants a relationship. You 
show a relationship by love, by caring, by 
your gifts ... The union must contribute 
back to this communiry also. They have an 
obligation that they can't ignore either." 
Kimber, of course, sees it as his personal 
responsibiliry to ensure that they meet 
these obligations. 

SOON 
AFTER 
THE 
REVEREND'S 
Sunday morning preaching begins, 
he spots me sitting in the back row of his 
church and calls out ro "the strange-look-
ing boy in the back." Just to show who is in 
charge, he asks me ro stand and interro-
gates me about my purpose--knowing full 
well why I am there and what I am doing. 
He wears a slightly sadistic smile. "This 
article--it gonna be good?" he asks, elicit-
ing a wave of laughter from the congrega-
tion. '"Cause if it ain't, I'll sic 'em on you 
right now." He pauses, then bellows, "Can 
I get a witness?!" The congregation 
responds with a jubilant chorus of amens. 
"You can't hide from the press," he says, 
"But at least I got him at church." 

Kimber's pulpit polemic jumps from 
the state budget to Laura Bush to Governor 
John Rowland as the congregation shouts 
irs approval. He refers to recent articles 
from the New Haven Register and beseeches 
his congregation, singling out certain con-
gregants by name, to "empower" them-
selves. As he continues, he flashes a smile in 
my direction and, ever media-savvy, adds, 
"And don't think I'm just talking about chis 
because there's a reporter here." 

In the reverend's rhetoric, power strug-
gles take on the tone of a crusade, and 
political opponents are cast as doomed infi-
dels. The diplomatic reserve he shows in an 
interview is replaced by hellfire and brim-
.stone. "I met with [State Representative] 
Bill Dyson, and I told him we need two 
million dollars, and it's gonna happen," he 
thunders, fist in the air. "And I'm gonna sit 
down with Bruce Alexander and Michael 
Morand at Yale, and I'm gonna ask Yale to 
give one million dollars a year for the next 
ten years to the New Haven public school 
system. Yale's sitting over there and I'm 
talking about money, not people coming 
out here to help us." He sneers this last bit, 
prompting nods and grunts of agreement 
among his congregants, many of whom 
work in low-end service jobs at the 
University and whose kids attend failing 
urban public schools. Kimber corltinues. 
"And I told [lead union organizers] Andrea 
Cole and Bobby Proto that I want them co 
give $10o,ooo to the New Haven Board of 
Education. The union dues are going to 
have to scan corning out here to help us." 
By this point, Kimber is yelling. The 
tirade whips his parishioners into a frenzy 
of righteous empowerment and liberation. 
The reverend laughs, then raises his hand 
in the air to quiet the congregation. 
"Everyone calm down," he pleads sarcasti-
cally, smiling. "You know we got guests in 
the house." With this jab at the outsider 
among them, the congregants are suddenly . 
back on their feet, shouting and stomping. 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


Kimber is shaking with laughter. "Y'all 
know that we know how to act sophisticat-
~d. " With that, the organ starts again. "I let 
the Lord know: I love the Lord," he pro-
claims, looking my way. "I hope y'all write 
that into your newspaper." 

SEVERAL SCANDALS HAVE PLAGUED 
the reverend since he first became 
involved in the Livable City Initiative (LCI), 
a city office which promotes community 
development, in 1995· On an almost yearly 
basis, he had been charged with overseeing 
the funneling of city money to his friends, 
cheating contractors, and ignoring calls to 
give up his role in LCI and the Hazel Street 
influence is proof enough of his integrity. 
"If people really thought that I dealt in 
shady deals, I would never get calls from 
the Attorney General, from state represen-
tatives, from aldermen, from community 
people," he says. 

Controversy is inherent in the kind of 
politics Kimber practices. DeStefano looks 
to him for a solid block of Newhallville 
votes in every election, and the reverend 
delivers. He uses old fashioned tactics-
vote-pulling, patronage politics, turf 
wars-that inevitably draw heavy criticism 
in election years. Kimber defends his strat-
egy as one of simply maintaining strong 
relationships in the community that pay off 
when political battles heat up. "People have 
Development 
Corporation. 
This ongoing 
scandal, 
course, 
was 
only 
com-
pounded 
by 
the reverend's 
"Yale's sitting over there and 
I'm talking about money, not 
people coming out here to 
help us." 
been able to 
trust 
me. 
People have 
ga l vanize 
around 
me, 
and I have 
1996 felony conviction, which elicited a 
pledge from DeStefano to remove Kimber 
from all city programs. But after resigning 
as head of the Hazel Street Corp., Kimber 
simply tapped his father-in-law for the job 
and stayed on as a special consultant at a 
salary of over $5o,ooo a year. 

Those allegations are only the start of 
a laundry list of shady fmancial dealings to 
which Kimber's name is linked. Still, 
DeStefano does not hesitate to affirm his 
own friendship with and allegiance to 
Kimber. And Henry Fernandez, who head-
ed up LCI at the time of Kimber's suspicious 
activities, has defended Kimber, while 
simultaneously shutting him out of all fur-
ther financial dealings. Kimber himself has 
heard it all before, and denies charges that 
he has personally benefited from his 
involvement in city development pro-
grams. "I haven't gained anything financial-
ly for myself or my family," he claims. "I've 
been able to help a community grow by 
developing new houses, helping to bring 
new ideas to a community, helping to build 
schools, helping to stop people from selling 
drugs on street corners. People will always 
assume ~at you're benefiting." But on a 
more basic level, Kimber simply sees no 
need to engage his critics--his continued 
FEBRUARY 2002 
influence the process and help good peo-
ple." Kimber has proclaimed himself a 
kingmaker in the past, and the label has 
stuck. But Kimber laughs and shakes his 
head when I ask him about the moniker. "I 
don't want to be remembered as a king-
maker ... I want to be recognized as a per-
son who has tried to make things better for 
people in general. If that means being a 
kingmaker by putting people in power who 
are on the right side of justice, then so be 
it." 

KIMBER'S 
SuNDAY 
MORNING 
performance shows a side of New 
Haven politics that cannot be replaced by 
virtuous bureaucratic reformers. No mem-
ber of the congregation is spared his atten-
tion; he refers to many by name. Afrer 
prayer recitations and responsive read-
ings--<>ne of the few quiet stretches in the 
service-the reverend steps up to the podi-
um with a pile of papers in hand. 
"Parents," he scolds. "There're still a lot of 
you who have not yet sent me your report 
cards." This is a ritual Kimber undertakes 
every time a marking period ends in the 
New Haven public school system. If things 
are not going well with one of his church's 
children, Kimber will not hesitate to step


**Title: A Yale and Family 'Tradition for Over a Quarter of a Century**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
12-PAKS 
18-PAKS 
24-PAKS 
30-PAKS 
Always on Sale 
FINE WINES 
Gag Jr. Liquor Store 
1183 Otapel Street 
New Haven, cr 
(203) 624-1630 
A Yale and Family 'Tradition for OVer a 
Quarter of a Century 
• PiZza • Pasta • Casseroles • Subs ,~ Gyros • 
• Souv1aki • Sandwiches + Seafood + Chicken + 
• Steak • Salads • Daily Special • 
• Hot or Cold Platters • Burgers + Wings + 
• Beer • Wine • Desserts • 
+ Ice C<eam + Milk Shakes + 
Accepting Flex Dollars 
Sun-Thurs. 11om-lam 
Fri. & Sat. 11om-2om 
Located behind sterling Ubl'ory 
Next door to Toad's 
288 York str .. t, New Haven, CT 06511 
787-7471 787-7472


<br>

**Title: The Last Crusade**
**Page number(s): 30**

I 
N 1998, CAMPus CRUSADE FOR CHRIST AT YALE faced an iden-
tity crisis. Marginalized from the university mainstream and 
almost exclusively Asian, the organization resorted to a radical mea-
sure: It changed its name to Yale Students for Christ (Ysc) and 
sought to diversify its membership and redefme its public image. 
The new YSC is almost twice the size of its previous incarnation and 
one of the most ethnically diverse groups at Yale. A short list of the 
local churches that YSC members attend is indicative of the change: 
Black Church at Yale, Calvary Baptist, the International Church at 
Yale, and Impact, among others. Yet despite its new name and 
composition, YSC remains a chapter of the international Campus 
Crusade for Christ. It sponsors the same activities, is supported by 
a paid Campus Crusade staff of six recent college graduates, and 
adheres to the same evangelist doctrine--<femanding that members 
share their faith and spread the gospel any chance they get. 
YSC meetings on Thursday nights unfold like any other meet-
ing on campus. A recent meeting sent the YSC staff scrambling to 
fetch extra chairs for the group of nearly 8o that arrived at the 
Dwight Hall common room. While four students set up a drum set 
and guitar at the front of the room, everyone else stood around talk-
ing to friends f.u past the 7 PM start time. At 7:25, someone finally 
came forward to begin the meeting with a short prayer. Next, a girl 
made the weekly announcements. The same girl might have spoken 
the same words at a sorority meeting. Don't forget the retreat, she 
reminded the group. Oh, yeah, and the great Panama Beach spring 
trip--hang out and enjoy evangelism, fellowship, and sun. 
Following acmouncements, chairs scraped the floor in the 
crowded room as everybody rose to sing. The song asked God for 
righteousness, holiness, and faithfulness, words that ace normally 
taboo on the Yale campus. The guest speaker that evening was 
Reverend Moody, the minister at local Trinity Church. Moody sug-
gested a theme verse for the semester-Philippians 4:9-a verse that 
speaks about the example that Christ sets in both his words and his 
actions. Bibles appeared from backpacks, sports bags, and purses as 
everyone followed along. Then the Yale Students for Christ left the 
room, the verse still in their minds, ready to do Christ's work in 
their lives and on campus. Moody's mild, socially aware, and posi-
tive speech exemplified the new kind of crusader that YSC hopes to 
encourage. 
This new crusader began to appear last year, when YSC joined 
with five other Christian groups at Yale to publicize their mission 
activities, including speakers and discussions. The theme of the 
week's activities was the question "Do you agree with Dave?" T-
shirts, spotted everywhere across campus, answered the question, 
saying, "I agree with Dave." The "Dave" featured on these shirts is 
Dave Farrell, an actual member of YSC, but his name was chosen 
because it is a common one, meant to represent the believer in gen-
eral. YSC members considered the effort a success, sparking more 
talk about Christianity than the campus had seen in years. Even 
negative responses were taken as a good sign, proof that students 
were at least thinking about religion. However, one sign that read "I 
agree with Dave" was changed to read "I agree with Dave Koresh,"



**Title:  YALE STUDENTS FOR CHRIST MARKETS A NE\N EVANGELISM**

YALE STUDENTS FOR CHRIST MARKETS 
A NE\N EVANGELISM 
THE NEW JouRNAL 



**Yale's Religious Landscape**
**Author: Ellen Thompson**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
and numerous parody shirts appeared. While the members of YSC 
do not believe that one person can convert another (only the Holy 
Spirit can), they hoped that by sharing their beliefs they could 
expose more people to the gospel. But students' reactions to the "I 
agree with Dave" shirts demonstrated that Yale is clearly not the eas-
iest place to be vocal about Christian faith. 


Aaron Johanson became a Christian when he was four years 
old. He remembers kneeling down and asking Christ into his heart. 
Since then, part of his life has been mission work. Now a senior, he 
has participated in YSC since his freshman year at Yale. He has been 
on two missions, two of the four types that Campus Crusades spon-
sors: work in inner cities, resorts, beach communities, and missions 
abroad. In Yellowstone, one of the "resort" sites, Aaron's mission 
targeted park employees. The idea is that Yellowstone employees are 
often both rootless and looking for life direction. So ccc sends stu-
dents there to provide Christianity as an option. 


The next summer Aaron took on an even more challenging 
mission, one to East Asia. 
ccc calls this mission OEX-
Oriental Exchange. Because of the nature of the mission's 
work and the potential danger for those involved, each coun- "ON 
try is given a code name and participants are asked not to 
reveal the location. The level of sensitivity and the general 
region reveal Aaron's likely destination to have been China. 


ccc provides a week of training before students go abroad. 
During training Aaron was warned to avoid political issues, in 
particular the three Ts-Tibet, Taiwan, and Tiananmen. 


Aside from these warnings, Aaron gave little thought to the 
danger he might be in. Aaron said that he had gone to share 
an aspect of his life that is important to him. He said he would only 
talk to those who seemed interested in Christianity, and discussion 
of Christ made up only 40 percent of his conversations. When 
Aaron and other students who have done mission trips through ccc 
talk about "outreach," "sharing," and "community" work, no one 
ever mentions "proselytizing." 


But Aaron's mission work and the shirt he wears are compli-
cated. Is there a difference between standing on a soapbox and com-
ing into a community in order to "share?" Is there a difference 
between a shirt that says, "I agree with Dave" and one that reads 
"Why haven't you accepted Christ?" 


Leah Zimmerman became a Christian when she was 14. She 
joined YSC and Yale College Council as soon as she came to Yale and 
is a leader in both groups. Leah summed up her initial sense of the 
campus attitude as, "You're either atheist, Jewish, or stupid." As a 
Christian at Yale, she felt it was hard to "speak out." 


Leah's four years at Yale have revolved around speaking out. As 
president of Freshman College Council she sent out a mass email to 
the freshman class that included a citation from the Gospel with no 
words. Leah had made a typo--the numbers referred to a passage 
about the punishment of lustful sinners instead of the "more gener-
al happy message" about love she had intended. After a few officious 
email readers sent her angry replies, Leah sent out an apology to the 
list. Although unable to apologize for the scripture itself, which she 
embraces in its entirety, she apologized instead for any offense she 
might have caused. In the next issue of Rumpus she was compared 
to Hitler and Stalin. What that story didn't report was that after the 
exchange she received over 30 emails that supported her and spoke 
of the difficulty of being a Christian at Yale. For Leah the experi-
ence was encouraging, and since that time she has felt more and 
more accepted as a Christian here. Even so, Leah is the first to rec-
ognize the fundamental divide between herself and the Yale main-
stream. She focuses on the monetary and career goals of many stu-
dents and compares this with the Christian view: "We're saying that 
there is a sovereign authority that we live for." Even community ser-
vice is seen as ultimately self-interested from a Christian perspec-
tive. 


This February YSC begins another effort to spark spiritual dis-
cussion on campus in the weeks leading up to Easter, purchasing 
advertising space in campus newspapers and putting up a new set of 
signs to challenge the campus: "What if academics don't matter?" 
"What if there is a higher purpose in life?" 


YSC wants to be heard, but does it also want to listen? For Leah, 
the apparent conflict between her own strong beliefs and those of 
others can be resolved this way: "As much as you want something 
to be true, desire it to be true, this doesn't make it the truth. I 
believe that Jesus is the Son of God and that I am sinful and need 
Christ-but more than anything I value truth." Leah has found her 
truth through her faith in God, but she doesn't feel that this faith 
discredits someone else's. While YSC is making an attempt to reach 
out to the rest of campus, its challenge will be to convince a skepti-
cal student body that there is no paradox in Leah's belief. 


Ellen Thompson, a junior in Ezra Stiles 
College, is on the staff of TNJ.


**A Conversation on Faith at Yale**
**Author:  The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

The Participants: 
Jon Butler, the chair ofYale's History 
Department, is co-director of the 
Institute for the Advanced Study of 
Religion at Yale. 
Gabriela Karabelnik, a senior in 
Calhoun College, was raised in a "cul-
turally Jewish" family, but became a 
Christian at the age of 28. At Yale she 
belongs to an Orthodox Presbyterian 
church. She is engaged to be married in 
June 2002; her fiancé is studying to be 
a pastor. 
Stephen Kobasa, a 1972 graduate of the 
Yale Graduate School of Arts and 
Sciences with a degree in religious studies, 
is a member of the Connecticut 
Coalition for Peace and a parishioner of 
St. Thomas More Catholic Church. 
Ethan Guillen, a senior in Berkeley 
College, grew up with a Mexican 
Catholic father and an evangelical 
Christian mother. He adopted evangelical 
Christianity in high school. He 
now describes himself as an atheist. 
Abhimanyu Sud, a junior in Timothy 
Dwight College, was raised in a secular 
Hindu environment. He describes him-
self as a humanist. 

The following conversation took place Sunday, January 27, 2002. 
TNJ: What role does religion, or do religious people, play in the Yale 
experience, and how does Yale affect the religious experiences of its stu-
dents and faculty? 
Karabelnik: I think Yale has brought me to a greater understand-
ing of my faith ... I came in looking for Christian fellowship and 
engagement ... and I was very stimulated by people that I saw liv-
ing out their faith. 

Sud: I haven't experienced that at all. I think that for the most part 
there is an assumption of atheism, especially in the academic con-
text. There isn't any possibility of a debate on any consideration of 
faith. 

Kobasa: "When I was here the idea that someone would be publicly 
religious was at best a curiosity. Though there were at the time his-
torical images of political radicalism that were religious like [former 
Yale chaplain] Reverend William Sloane Coffin who was extraordi-
narily powerful not just within the local community but nationally. 
There was a sense that there was a community of faith that was 
combative in the highest moral sense with regard to that time, 
which was the time of the civil rights movement and Vietnam. 
Those were voices that were sought out here and honored in some 
degree, not that that was a universal acceptance. And I suppose I 
was touched by that. 

Butler: I don't think [religion] does have an impact here. My own 
view is, if you mean personal commitment, I don't think it plays out 
in any particular way ... I'm chair of the [history] department, and 
I have no idea of the religious persuasions of four-fifths of my col-
leagues. And I only know about the others by accident. 

Kobasa: So no one would deliberately ask another member of the 
faculty about their faith? 

Butler: I think that would be regarded as inappropriate. 

Karabelnik: I think what Professor Butler is talking about is large-
ly also a factor of how subjectivized religion has become. It's a mat-
ter of personal faith. And I really came into Yale wanting to see if 
there was another way of approaching it. If I'm in a New Testament 
class and there's someone telling me, "Well, see, these texts aren't 
reliable, look at these lies here, look at this," I wanted to allow it to 
be a threat to my faith, and I think that's where the most fruitful 
engagement has come. 

But I think generally in the religious studies department that's 
not the way it's presented. "Your personal faith is a matter for your 
personal life ... faith can be bracketed in your intellectual pursuits." 

Guillen: I'm just trying to flesh out what you were saying, 
Gabriela. I remember as a Christian freshman year, coming from 
the California tradition of Christianity where you have the belief 
that everything in the Bible is true. It's infallible. And I remember 
taking a class with Ivan Marcus where so much of the Bible is chal-
lenged. That certainly, to most people, provides a big challenge to 
personal faith if they're willing to engage in those terms. And I have 
to say . . . one thing that was very influential to me was that it 
seemed dispassionate. It didn't seem as though he had any sort of 
bent, that he was trying to convert Christians to atheism or any-
thing like that. 

Karabelnik: I guess that's where I'd be more in line with the post-
modern view that no approach is neutral. 

TNJ: What about the question of tolerance--what do you do when your 
views come into conflict with others? 

Guillen: I have a lot of trouble with fundamentalists, especially 
when they're involved in politics ... As long as others are willing to 
accept my beliefs, it's not too much of a problem for me. 

Karabelnik: A lot of the issues that you're raising are very interest-
ing to me, because I guess in your terms I would be the funda-
mentalist of the group ... The issue of tolerance is one that I some-
times experience as a threat, because I think it can be used against 
people like me who believe in religious absolutes. Tolerance can 
become an issue where it's fine for you to believe what you believe 
as long as you don't believe that what you believe is the truth. 

Guillen: I have no trouble with you. You're not crusading to con-
vert me. 

Butler: It is important to remember that tolerance, even as a his-
torical minimum, has been most useful. It's taken the edge off the 
other way, which is open oppression, oppression without any guilt, 
oppression without any qualification. And until the 18th century 
that's largely the position that most of Western culture took. 

Sud: I understand tolerance as a very active process, which implies 
a very different understanding of a relationship--not having the 
relationship depend upon beliefs. I take great pride in being able to 
disagree with someone fundamentally and not have it interfere at all 
with the assumption of unity between people. 

Kobasa: I think Christianity was better off when it wasn't tolerat-
ed. When it was a dangerous thing to be Christian, people's deci-
sions about that, over and against the threat of the state, had a very 
different, I think, implication ... You know, after September 11, for 
example, anyone who would have suggested [from a religious point 
of view] that we should not respond with violence to ... the attack 
on the World Trade Center would have been looked on as a betray-
er of what was essential about American patriotism. You were either 
with us or you were against us. Where does religion stand on that? 
And maybe it was true that that was the choice. Though there 
weren't many who cared to make it. 

So I think for myself maybe, the place where my own faith falls 
short is that I haven't had the experience of that kind of risk that 
really defines faith, where you have to put yourself on the line. 

TNJ: Can other people talk about moments of a personal crisis in faith, 
putting yourself on the line? 

Guillen: Well, for me, that was, I guess, fall semester sophomore 
year, or even during Christmas break. I was following the intellec-
tual pursuit of God. I guess I started out first with Christianity and 
Bible matters--does the Bible hold truth? Is it historically accurate? 
And if it's not, does it matter at all? And that was a very dark and 
hard time, where I was sort of losing the grounding that I had. Even 
the Catholicism I had, which was my background--Mexican-
Catholic. 

And so my exploration and studying of the Bible, in a more 
dispassionate way ... brought me to a place where I felt like I could-
n't believe Christianity anymore. And from that followed a more 
philosophical search after God. Even lacking any sort of intellectu-
al grounding, was there any reason just to have faith in God? Had 
I ever had any sort of faith experience of God, where I felt the pres-
ence of God, or something supernatural that would make me think 
there was a God? And I came to the decision that I hadn't ... I had 
always grounded [my faith] in a hope that there was some sort of



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
intellectual explanation for what was going 
on in the world, in God and in the Bible. 
And so it took a long time to emerge from 
that, to build up a new philosophy of life 
and regain purpose. And I guess in some 
ways I still battle with that, how to build a 
basis for morality and a sense of what's to 
come. 

TN]: Can you talk a little more about the 
process? Did you read, did you pray, did you 
stay up at night, talk to your friends, your 
family? 

Guillen: About all of those things, yeah. I 
started off just reading the Bible again, just 
cover to cover, everything . . . I actually 
emailed professors just asking them if they 
believed in God and why. I got some inter-
esting answers. Bur nothing that was 
incredibly satisfying. A lot of them were 
things like, "Well, I just never thought 
about the possibility that there wasn't a 
God." So that wasn't incredibly helpful. 
And so I talked to grad students. I read 
grad students' theses that they had written. 
There were many nights where I just didn't 
sleep. I was deeply depressed. 

Karabelnik: I also went through a period 
of depression and a lot of doubt. ActuaUy 
the first semester freshman year, right when 
I got here. I just really descended into a 
vicious cycle of self-hatred, self-deprecating 
thoughts, and that affected my faith ... I 
thought, "Well, I don't feel God. I don't 
feel like a Christian. I don't feel like I'm 
worthy of God's love." All those things, just 
very self-.directed. 

And it got so bad that I went home. I 
was thinking about not corning back to 
Yale. My parents sent me to their psychol-
ogist and I went and she really tried to get 
me to hope, to believe in myself, to believe 
in the Jungian psychology she was present-
ing me with, and it was actually the realiza-
tion that I couldn't have faith in what she 
was saying that brought me back to my 
faith. I realized that everyone operates on 
the basis of faith. There is no neutral 
worldview to fall back on. The key was 
shifring my focus away from myself to the 
source of my faith, which is God. 

TNJ: How did these moments of crisis affict 
your family relationships? 

Guillen: There was some letdown of my 
dad. I don't really know why-his 
Catholicism is very Mexican-Catholic, 
Mary's always there, but it doesn't really 
have any bearing on his life. The first diffi-
cult point was back in high school when I 
wasn't confirmed . . . But then I feel like 
when I told him I was an atheist that some-
how transformed him and he became more 
religious. My mom, as well, . . . her faith 
didn't really have any bearing on her until I 
abandoned it. 

Karabelnik: It's definitely been a conflict. 
My family is more culturally Jewish than 
anything else, but when I was twelve I was 
supposed to have a Bat Mitzva9~ and I said, 
"I just can't say I believe in this, I'm not 
going just to do something for the sake of 
doing it." And the whole synagogue culture 
had turned me off, because I hadn't 
encountered what I was looking for in 
terms of authentic faith that affected all of 
life . . . My family first of all just felt like 
they had failed in bringing me up to 
embrace, not necessarily religious values, 
but an appreciation for my heritage and for 
the liberal values that they had brought me 
up with. And my father, for instance, said, 
"I would be just as upset if you became 
Ortho<;lox Jewish as what you're doing now, 
the same fundamentalism that I can't relate 
to." The hardest has been my grandmoth-
er because she's a Holocaust survivor and 
for her "Christian" is equated with "Nazi." 
How can I betray the family? How can I 
do this and bring such shame upon every-
one? What I really try to do is just live out 
my faith to show them that it has made me 
a better person. That I'm able to love them 
more than I ever have ... And my mother, 
she's supportive as much as she can be. She 
doesn't understand, but she says, you know, 
you have children and you have to be will-
ing to accept the fact that they might be 
very different from you. 

I'm getting married this summer and 
my fiance is in training to become a pastor 
and that doesn't help things. [Giggle] The 
sphere that I will be in will be very hard for 
them to understand, and my Yale educa-
tion will be put to use in a way they can't 
understand. 

Kob~U~Z: Of course it means that your 
mother's words might be taken not only as 
a statement of acceptance but as a warning. 
[!.aught~ 

· ' 
Karabelnile: Oh yeah, she's like, "Just wait 
till you have kids!" 

KobtUa: My parents were more upset that 
I became too Catholic when I declared 
myself a conscientious objector for reli-
gious reasons ... It's still sort of a struggle 
for them because it's meant having to deal 
with things like me being arrested, going to 
jail, going to courts, and that's difficult for 
any parent no matter what the justification 
is ... My mother's 84 and there are points 
where some article will come up, and some-
one will say to her, "Is that your son?" and 
she will say. "Yes. It is." [Laught~ There is 
a sense that underneath it all there's a 
recognition. 

TNJ: Could you state for the record what it is 
that you put your faith in? 

Stul: I have faith in the sdf as an embodi-
ment of an ultimate unity. 

G1Uikn: I put my faith in the evolution of 
man socially. 

Butler: I'm going to pass. 

Karabemile: I have faith in the saving work 
of Christ through his death on the cross. 

KobtUa: I would go with what the Catholic 
worker community says, which is that 
Grace is what the measure of the world is ... 
Because that's the only place where mean-
ing comes, you know, even when the strug-
gle is marked by failure, it's not futile ... I 
think, at least in the generic sense, most 
faiths claim to give you som~ sense of 
what's meaningful about human existence 
and activity, given the fact that you die. 


**Title: A Yale University Lecture and Discussion Series**
**Page number(s): 35**

A Yale University Lecture and Discussion Series 
.------ Upcoming Events: 
Sunday 
Work, War, and Democracy 
February 1 0 
John Wilhelm, Yale '67; President, HEREIU (Hotel Employees 
Restaurant Employees International Union) 
7PM Law School Auditorium 
February 17 Art and Catastrophe 
Yale Professors David Connell (Music), Toni Dorfman TN-~, 
and Jay Winter (History) 
Political and Moral Implications of Postmodem 
February 24 
Thought In the Wake of 9/11 
Monday 
April 1 
Tuesday 
April 9 
Stanley Fish, Dean of Academic Affairs, Unive~ of lllinoi• ~~-~ 
Chicago; Response by Yale Professor David Bromwich 
7PM Law SChool Auditorium 
The Sacred and the Secular 
Yale ProfesSQrs Seyal Benhabib (Political Scitnce ), Jon '"""'•VII!; 
(History). and Lamin Sanneh (Divinity Schodl) 



**Title: JE**
**Author: Blake Wilson**
**Page number(s): 36**

ou MAY NOT KNOW IT, but you are living in America's first 
Jl :heme park. The tall Gothic buildings arching over you, the 
quatrefoil traceries cut into their battlements, the leaded glass and 
coats of arms-all smoke and mirrors. Look around Branford's 
Great Courryard, and what do you see? A four-man touch f~otball 
game on the lawn; a couple of naked beeches; an old elm letting her 
smaller branches hang down like hair. And Oxford, or maybe 
Cambridge, in the background. Five stone towers rise above you, 
right out of a storybook. 

But come a little higher, and look again. That beautiful English 
slate roof isn't made of slate at all-bloody nicks in the shingles 
reveal red day hiding beneath the gray-green stain. W'rexham 
Tower, on the 
•of the quad, looks a little out of place: Its 
-
sryle and scale don't quite match. This makes sense, though, because 
the architect, James Gamble Rogers, plucked the design out of a 
tiny photograph of St. Giles Church in Wales, which just happens 
to look out over the graveyard where Elihu Yale is buried. In 
Branford's tower, a water tank used to be hidden where the bells 
were hung in the Welsh original. Now the facade conceals ventila-
tion systems; from above you can see the steel vents spinning. 

Rogers does not rank as an important enough architect to have 
had a book written about him, or even an entry in a standard ency-
clopedia of American architecture. He knew Frank Uoyd Wright 
and Louis Sullivan, and he apprenticed at one of the firms that first 
raised modern skyscrapers over Chicago. But Rogers found success 
as a sentimental architect, working fluently and happily in old ver-
naculars, dressing up practical plans and modern building tech-
~iques in Georgian or Gothic skins. His work at Yale has a timeless 
qualiry in part because the buildings are not really written in the 
architectural language of any one period: Renaissance flourish 
sneaks into the medieval doorways and arches at almost every turn 
in Branford, and a subtle fusion of sryles is visible in the seven other 
colleges he built as well. Rogers was more concerned with his 
buildings' impact than any ideology. Besides, a foreign element 
can.sometimes make a thing look more like itself; it can bring 
out the full flavor, like salt on food. 

Now ook around Yale and point to the churches. From 
Harkness, you can see the three on the Green, as well as 
the steeple of St. Mary's, and you might catch Battell 
Chapel wedged into the corner of Old Campus, peeking 
out like an afterthought between Farnham and Durfee. And 
there's Dwight Hall, where occasional services and weddings 
-"""!~n~iiiii-J~~Jlt:=;~~5~ \-f~~\;;;;;;;ii~Jt----...--- are still held. It was Yale's first Gothic building, but despite 
_....._.. 
its pinnacles and vaulting chapel hall, it was not built for 
worship--it was the library. Up Science Hill and out of 
-A~-----~.__-----~ - sight, the Divinity School marks one far end ofYale's cam-
-----......,~-.-.,;.~---.:.-----if-S---c:'::'"""------- pus; Christ Church· and St. Thomas More flirt with its 
----P~---------------1-1--~-----v>'estern frontier. And while the center campus is curious-



**Title: Yale's Gothic Architecture**
**Author: Blake Wilson**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ly empty of churches for an old Puritan college, Yale looks like a 
Christian town from above. We have two great cathedrals: the 
library and the gym. Steeples rise above the dining halls and stained 
glass glints everywhere. 

But there is a danger in the Hollywood Gothic, specifically in 
the religious symbolism appliqued to the architecture that frames 
our college life. Yale should, at the very least, teach us the difference 
between the authentic and the winking knock-off, and nor all of its 
buildings do. We are taught by Rogers to value above all the picturesque, ro be aesthetes rather than historians or churchgoers. Bur 
all of this architecture originally meant·something to the medieval 
Christians who invented it. Every statue and bit of colored glass 
told a story; every arch supported weight and every tracery was cut 
to let in light. What makes these features resonate so deeply remains 
a mystery, but the power that they have is real. A cross, blue and sil-
ver, the octagonal shape of a baptistery, and the sound of an echo in 
a sacred place--they all pull at us in a way that we cannot com-
pletely qualify. It is an imprecise science, and even pure Venetian 
Gothic had to borrow many of its decorative conceits and structur-
al principles from other traditions to have its effect. But while the 
best strains of religious architecture may be hybrids, at least their 
motive and object is pure: worship. 

FEBRUARY 2002 

This tradition, in its glory and its folly, is obscured by Rogers. 
And it is not only in our century that this vocabulary has been 
twisted or used too liberally. New Haven's colonial churches are flat-
ceilinged and unornamented because Protestants believed that stat-
uary had ceased to teach and begun to be worshipped; for many, the 
cathedrals had become more attractive than the God. Perhaps the 
severe values of Old Yale are best discarded. But we still shouldn't be 
perfectly at ease in the calcified campus handed down to us, or 
allow the faux-Papist splendor to blind us so that we cannot even 
tell which building was originally used for worship. 

Too high up on Harkness Tower to make out from the street, 
James Gamble Rogers left statues of Euclid, Aristotle, and Homer 
to watch quietly over the campus. This was Rogers at his sentimen-
tal best, and it is a gesture that we can respect for its integrity and 
its symbolism. He was a good architect and a devoted son of Eli, but 
he erred in much of what he built. He lacked a respect for history 
and for the sacred-a respect that we should all fear to lose. This 
University was not built so that we can script cabaret revues of the 
classics, nor should it be itself the stage for such a show. At its best, 
its architecture is sublime. At its worst, it is a truth twisted 
grotesquely for our convenience, or for a picture-perfect view. We 
owe it to ourselves to learn the difference. 

laJ 

Blake Wilson, a senior in Branford College, is associate editor for TNJ.


**Title: A Brief Affair with Objectivism**
**Author: Nadia Sussman**
**Page number(s): 38**

U I 
T IS A SIN TO WRITE THIS. It is a sin to think 
words no others think and to put them down 
upon a paper no others are to see." By invok-
ing the words of Equality 7-2521, the hero of Ayn 
Rand's Anthem, I hope to channel her energy, to 
feel the firm ground of rational egoism 
beneath my feet. My newfound belief in the 
guiding light· of self-interest will not last 
long, though. At the Objectivist Study 
Group at Yale (OSGAY) I might fin~ 
friends, but few Objectivist supporters. 
And all too soon, I myself will be depro-
grammed. 

The OSGAY meeting was small the 
night of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, the 
night my brief affair with objectivism 
bloomed and faded. Just seven of us sit-
ting around a seminar table, chatting before the me~ting officially 
began. "You want to run around putting up weird posters about 
Martin Luther King after this?" Lukas Halim asked the group. 
Little enthusiasm in response. 

The gathering slipped easily from casual banter to informal 
debate. At issue this week was the meaning of objectivity. Irina 
Manta, OSGAY's president, presented Ayn Rand's position: that 
truly objective reasoning demands the rational integration of all 
available knowledge about an object or situation. Based on the 
total information you have, you can reason objectively and deter-
mine that something is true, but you can still be wrong if you have 
any misinformation. "Object to that," she challenged, and we were 
off: nearly two hours of impenetrable talk about "stolen concepts" 
and "secret selves." Rand's ideas started the discussion, as they do 
each week, but soon everything became debatable, from the value 
of human life to the comparative merits of "dialogue" {which is "a 
wuss word," according to Lukas) and "dialectic" (clearly a more 
robust term). The quips and rebuttals came fast; if my mind wan-
dered for even a few seconds, I nearly lost track of the argument. 
Ostensibly, we were making progress on the issue, but it was hard 
to tell. 

My rapid disillusionment with Objectivism was not a rare 
reaction. "A lot of people come to the Objectivist Study Group 
and stop being Objectivists," explained former follower David 
Barnes. "When you actually sit down and analyze Rand's writing 
... you realize that a lot of her assumptions about human nature 
don't work out." Most Yale Objectivists alter their outlook quick-
ly. When new students come to OSGAY, the non-Objectivist major-
icy illuminates the shortcomings of Rand's philoso-
phy. "We try to deprogram Randians and half of 
them find the truth; the others just wander," 
explained Daniel Kornfield at the meeting. Lukas dis-
agreed. "We engage in a dialectic, and they depro-
gram themselves." 

Some newly disillusioned objectivists align them-
selves with other conservative ideologies. Others find 
guidance in the absolutism of organized religion-when 
rigid rationalism fails, they fall back on faith. osGAY 
meetings are a chance to debate abstract ideas with 
friends from the Party of the Right-libertarians, anar-
cho-capitalists, conservative Christians. Notably absent 
at OSGAY, however, are Conservative Party members, 
who frequent the rival Ayn Rand Society. That 
was founded in 2000 as a non-YPU 
............ ~ ·organization, but quickly came to be 
dominated by Yale Conservative Party members. Nearly absent at 
OSGAY, as well, are orthodox Objectivists. All but Irina are non-
believers. 

"If you believe that you've found the system that is true," Irina 
told me, "that's going to be more important than agreeing with 
people all the time." When Rand comes under attack in OSGAY, 
Irina explicates, rebuts, and defends. Her convictions run deep, 
but she takes nothing on faith. Irina discovered Rand's books at 
home in Swinerland. Her father became an Objectivist when she 
was ten. "We fled communist Romania. My parents had been 
indoctrinated [by the Party] their whole lives, but they knew 
something was wrong." For Irina and her father, Rand's philoso-
phy gave structure to the anti-collectivist sentiments they had 
always shared. "It really made sense. It already corresponded to 
things I had believed all along." Objectivism organizes Irina's life 
to some extent-she goes to the occasional conservative protest, 
and participated in the December "Walk for Capitalism" in New 
York-but on the whole, her ideology is private. It's not a religion, 
but a philosophy that runs as deep. On occasion she feels the iso-
lation of her belie&. "Sometimes there is this loneliness that can 
come into it," she admitted. "There's obviously few of us. It's kind 
of sad." 

Heading home after the meeting, I thought about Irina's sad-
ness, and that of her entire group. They were a lonely, motley band 
of rugged individualists, h uddled like survivors on a deserted 
island of conservatism in the sea of liberal ideologies that is Yale . 
Would their measured debates eventually succeed in bringing 
more eager minds into the fold? Objectively speaking, I doubt it. 

Nadia Sussman, a junior in Berkeley College, is on the staff of TNI.


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 40**

....... .., YALE CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF GLOBALIZATION 
.. 
