Publication date: Sept 2016
Volume: 49
Issue number: 1

**MASTHEAD**
- editors-in-chief: elena saavedra buckley, isabelle taft
- managing editor: spencer bokat-lindell
- senior editors: sophie haigney, sarah holder, yi-ling liu, aaron mak, david rossler
- associate editors: ruby bilger, victorio cabrera, eliza fawcett, amelia nierenberg, aaron orbey, natalie yang
- copy editors: griffin brown, philippe chlenski, harry gray, rohan naik
- design editors: ivy sanders schneider, allison primak, hilda huang
- photo editors: elinor hills, jennifer lu
- web designer: maria xu
- web developer: philippe chlenski
- members and directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Elizabeth Steig, Aliyya Swaby, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- points of departure — Ruby Bilger
- points of departure — Will Nixon
- points of departure — Frances Lindemann
- THE EDGE OF SISTERHOOD — Fiona Lowenstein
- TALK OF THE TOWNIE — Sophie Dillon
- QUEST FOR THE GOLDEN RHYME — Claudia Mezey
- WAIT WHAT’S THE QUESTION? — Pablo Uribe
- LUBBERT DAS — Elias Bartholomew
- MADE HERE — Matt Klineman
- SNACK TO THE FUTURE — Harry Gray


**Title: THE EDGE OF SISTERHOOD**
**Author: Fiona Lowenstein**
**Page number(s): 20**

Two Yale sororities reckon with a tradition of exclusivity


**Title: points of departure**
**Author: Ruby Bilger**
**Page number(s): 4**

NEW BEAR ON THE BLOCK


**Author: Will Nixon**

PLAY BILLS


**Author: Frances Lindemann**

A PRIZE OF ONE’S OWN


**Title: TALK OF THE TOWNIE**
**Author: Sophie Dillon**
**Page number(s): 10**

A local takes a turn as a Yale tour guide


**Title: QUEST FOR THE GOLDEN RHYME**
**Author: Claudia Mezey**
**Page number(s): 16**

A young New Haven rapper strives to find recognition


**Title: WAIT WHAT’S THE QUESTION?**
**Author: Pablo Uribe**
**Page number(s): 19**

[Poem]


**Title: LUBBERT DAS**
**Author: Elias Bartholomew**
**Page number(s): 28**



**Title: MADE HERE**
**Author: Matt Klineman**
**Page number(s): 30**

A sticker helps small businesses show their pride in a post-industrial city


**Title: SNACK TO THE FUTURE**
**Author: Harry Gray**
**Page number(s): 33**

Thirty days of liquid calories



**Title: NEW BEAR ON THE BLOCK**
**Author: Ruby Bilger**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The black bear’s mother kicked him out of her den 
in northwestern Connecticut when he was seventeen 
months old, the equivalent of a human preteen. It was 
May 2016, she was ready to mate again, and black bears 
don’t usually hang around while their mothers prepare 
for new cubs. He had no resources, no skills, nowhere to 
go—just a nose for food and a desire to find females. Bears 
are a solitary and territorial species, and no one was try­
ing to help him, either. If the bear entered his mother’s 
territory, she would chase him away. Every suitable habi­
tat he found in the nearby woodlands seemed to be taken 
already by one of his standoffish kind. Some of his peers 
had given up on their crowded quadrant and journeyed 
far, reaching upstate New York, Long Island, and New 
Jersey. But this one wandered beyond the woods. 

Wallace Street, New Haven: a quiet block in the 
Cedar Hill neighborhood near Wooster Square, over­
grown with weeds that sprout from cracks in the side­
walk and crawl into the wooded grove that separates 
the street from I-91. It’s a street only two blocks long, 
where small auto-parts warehouses give way to modest 
clapboard houses between Grand Avenue and Jocelyn 
Square. Residents hose down their cars in the after­
noon there, or lounge in beach chairs on their lawns 
when the weather is nice. What they don’t do, gener­
ally, is hide behind dumpsters and call for friends to 
pick them up—which is exactly what Wallace Street 
resident Tonya Hall did on May 9, when she spotted 
the lone adolescent bear in the grove near the highway. 
“He was just walking along, and then he looked at 
me, and I was like, ‘Oh, shoot, a bear!’” Hall told the 
New Haven Register at the time of the incident. Fellow 
Wallace Street resident Oziel Melendez also saw him 
in his own backyard, and chased him out. The bear 
eventually ran up a tree, and a cluster of perturbed 
neighbors formed. The neighbors’ agitation upgraded 
the bear’s appearance from “sighting” to “contact,” and 
required the assistance of the Wildlife Division of the 
Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmen­
tal Protection (DEEP), whose staffers shot the bear 
with a tranquilizer dart and removed it from the imme­
diate area. By the end of the day no one was hurt, and 
the bear, safely released into the nearest forested area, 
had been nicknamed Boo-Boo by the neighbors. 

Residents of Connecticut’s more forested towns 
would scoff at any commotion over a single bear in 
the neighborhood. In Avon, which sits on the edge 
of Talcott Mountain State Park in the north of the 
illustration 
ivy sanders schneider


state, there have been 580 black bear sightings since 
August 2015 alone. But in New Haven, a bear sight­
ing is highly unusual. Luckily, Wallace Street seems 
unshaken: when I visited this July and asked residents 
on the block if they had heard of the recent bear 
sightings in the area, the replies were either “No” or 
“There’s a bear?!” But Boo-Boo’s brief New Haven tour 
represented a growing trend: people are spotting more 
bears in more areas of the state, including cities. There 
have already been 5,100 sightings in Connecticut this 
year, compared with 4,496 in all of 2015 and 3,003 
in 2010. There have been eight in New Haven since 
2010—one in 2011, one in 2015, and six this year. 
“This has been a big year for human-bear conflict,” 
says Jason Hawley, a black bear biologist with DEEP. 
A mere sighting isn’t a conflict, he adds; there has to 
be some sort of direct, negative interaction between 
the bear and the human. Paranoid city dwellers might 
immediately assume Hawley is talking about attacks, 
which do occur, albeit very rarely. Just this past June, a 
woman finishing a marathon survived a bear mauling 
in a nature preserve near Albuquerque, New Mexico. 
But Hawley is referring to less grisly conflicts, ones 
that consist of bears rifling through a family’s trash, 
say, or killing livestock, or charging at someone and 
then running up a tree. While these sorts of encounters 
certainly aren’t innocuous, they don’t often happen in 
Connecticut. DEEP tranquilized and relocated only 
fifteen bears this year out of nearly five thousand sight­
ings, making Boo-Boo’s a special case. Hawley says that 
incidents like the one on Wallace Street in May will 
only become more frequent. Why?

Much of Connecticut’s farmland has turned back 
to woodland in the past one hundred years due to the 
growth of industrial farming in other states and federal 
efforts to restore American forests. Black bears, sud­
denly sitting on a state full of suitable habitat, have 
expanded their statewide population to about seven 
hundred and ventured beyond their traditional north­
western quadrant. More unsettlingly, black bears are 
virtually indestructible. “Black bears have a survival 
rate of eighty percent,” says Hawley. “That’s unheard of 
for a wild animal. There are places where the human 
survival rate isn’t even that high.” Bears owe their suc­
cess to their low birth rate and solitary nature: their 
population doesn’t grow so quickly that they strain their 
food supply, and they don’t interact with each other 
often enough to easily spread diseases that decimate 
other species.

As the wooded areas in northwestern and eastern 
Connecticut become more saturated with bears, young 
naïfs like Boo-Boo will more frequently find themselves 
in urban and suburban areas. While Boo-Boo certainly 
can’t make a den on Wallace Street, he was shrewd 
to wander there. People in cities outside of the state’s 
standard bear range don’t expect to see bears in their 
yards, so they leave their trash and bird feeders in tanta­
lizing rows that bears can raid like a lunch buffet. With 
circumstances so favorable, there’s no reason for ursine 
appearances in New Haven to wane any time soon.

For the most part, the state doesn’t interfere with the 
bears’ rugged individualism. “Our job is to manage the 
bear population in Connecticut,” Hawley says. “But 
we don’t like to meddle too much. We don’t transport 
bears far away from where we found them. We think 
sightings are a good thing—they mean the bear pop­
ulation is healthy. Just let bears be bears. Let ’em do 
their thing.” 

But Boo-Boo’s own resilience might become one of 
the greater threats to his survival: to keep the popu­
lation in check, Hawley says, Connecticut is consid­
ering allowing a bear-hunting season. And when he 
ventures into urban areas, Boo-Boo is most endangered 
by the kindly people who try to lend him a hand. It’s 
not uncommon for bears to break into people’s homes 
these days looking for food, or to return to the same 
bird feeder night after night, waiting for mealtime. 
“When you feed them, you habituate them to humans,” 
Hawley says. “And that makes them aggressive.” Haw­
ley laments that DEEP has already had to euthanize 
six bears this year that had become accustomed to 
approaching people. Closer interactions between our 
two species could give the phrase “human-bear con­
flict” a more sinister ring for both parties. If we’d like to 
keep both humans and bears alive, just about the worst 
thing we can do is try to make friends. 
— Ruby Bilger is a junior in Branford 
College. She is an associate editor 
for The New Journal. 


<br>

**Title: PLAY BILLS**
**Author: Will Nixon**
**Page number(s): 6**

In an antechamber on the second floor of the Quinnip­
iack Club, a block from the New Haven Green, a group 
of mostly white adults mingles. One grey-haired, bespec­
tacled gentleman chuckles in khakis and a sport coat. A 
middle-woman in capris and Asics sizes up the thirty-per­
son crowd. Another woman, grinning and alone in an 
all-turquoise sweat suit, could easily be somebody’s grand­
mother. When Emily, an actor in a pinstripe skirt suit, 
enters through a pair of heavy wooden doors with a clip­
board, Turquoise Grandma is the first to get in line.  

She passes through the antechamber into the oaken 
Club Library, where the shelved books look worn but 
staged, as if purchased en masse. In one corner, a dig­
ital clock reads “1:30:00” in apocalyptic red digits. An 
air conditioner hums in the center window. Both chill 
the otherwise stuffy atmosphere.

Alice—another actor identical to Emily in manner 
and dress—waits just inside to welcome the crowd into 
the wood-paneled room. In dignified Queen’s English, 
Alice asks Turquoise Grandma: “Benefactor or Silent 
Witness?”
“Benefactor,” she says.	
“Thank you for your contribution. You are now a 
Player,” Alice responds, seating her accordingly. 

Players are arranged in one of four rows of com­
manding, green leather chairs, two along each side 
of the long wooden table at the center of the musty 
library, while Silent Witnesses sit in the four rows of 
folding chairs perpendicular to the action. Once the 
Players and Witnesses have been segregated, Alice 
explains the rules and emergency exit procedures with 
the sterile friendliness of a flight attendant, down to the 
open-palm hand gestures and ascot. Emily waits by the 
beverage cart. (There will be free wine after.)

The Benefactors have ninety minutes to unanimously 
decide—via signed contract—how to spend their $300 
of that evening’s gross ticket revenue. (Benefactors pay 
$20 while Silent Witnesses pay $35, perhaps to encour­
age participants.) The Silent Witnesses silently witness, 
unless they ring a brass bell and cough up an additional 
$20 for a seat at the table and, thus, a voice. Benefac­
tors can tap out, too, to the resonant chime of a small 
gong on a side table. Should the group of Benefactors 
fail to allocate their funds unanimously in the time 
allotted by the clock counting down in the corner, the 
entire pile of cash turns over to the next day’s council.
—

This semi-parliamentary pomp and circumstance 
constitutes The Money, an interactive theatrical expe­
rience imported from British production company 
Kaleider and performed daily for a full week beginning 
on June 18 for New Haven’s annual International Festi­
val of Arts and Ideas. The show, or game, or simulated 
oligarchy, is equal parts artful theater and social exper­
iment, though the project’s conceiver and Kaleider’s 
Artistic Director, Seth Honnor, insists he feels no 
moral or ethical obligation as to how the money should 
be spent. Despite the fact that every group of Bene­
factors present in New Haven for The Money’s American 
premiere unanimously voted to support a charitable 
cause, Honnor appreciates those rare and brave sugges­
tions that veer towards self-interest. 

But as electric red seconds tick away on the clock 
and the cash leers expectantly at the donors, “frivol­
ity”—as one woman labeled self-serving expenditures 
like bar tabs and free pizza—finds no place at the table. 
One woman anted up on Friday’s show with an offer to 
match ten dollars a head if she could keep half the new 
total and invest in a Colorado marijuana farm. (The 
original total was $420.) Other players shouted her 
down before pausing to do the math. 

Honnor said the responsibility he forced on Bene­
factors kept him up at night. But nobody’s forcing any­
thing on anyone, of course; it’s all a game that people 
have paid to attend. It’s an immersive work of theatrical 
art, one in which the actors’ desire to demonstrate their 
moral rectitude by advocating for the worthiest charita­
ble cause feels similar to the performances of generos­
ity staged by major philanthropists: Mark Zuckerberg, 
for example, announced his $100 million donation to 
Newark Public Schools on the Oprah Show. The trick 
of the production is that the participants don’t seem to 
realize that they’re acting. 

“Everything we do in that space is elastic, but there’s 
nothing that’s not considered,” Honnor notes, from the 
vaguely suggestive language of the tabletop Rule Book 
(the qualification that Players should be “visionary” 
was added mid-run in New Haven), to Alice’s seating 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Will Nixon**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
SEPTEMBER 2016
 7
process, to the deafening effect of the air conditioner. 

“They don’t even know when they’ve moved into the 
system.” 

On Friday, the first few seconds crawl by silently. 
One of the Players, the middle aged woman in Asics, 
picks up the Rule Book before her and reads aloud. 
Then, the Players hold a brief vote, and each one’s 
primary suggestions are recorded. (Someone always 
takes notes in America, Honnor says). Forty-five min­
utes later, at the halfway point, Peter—the Player in 
the coat—buys his way into the center and pitches a 
brand new charitable initiative he’s named “Books and 
Bears.” Inspired by the sight of a child whose guardian 
was among the victims of the previous day’s wave of 
heroin overdoses—the cause of three deaths—Peter, a 
former Ward 8 Alderman, sought to establish an orga­
nization that would supply care packages to young 
children in the protective custody of law enforcement. 
Looking to inspire his less passionate fellow Benefac­
tors, he argued against local homeless shelter Colum­
bus House and the vague sentiment of “giving back to 
Arts & Ideas.” Well-spoken and emotional, Peter was 
accused of having an agenda. He fought back. “It’s seed 
money for a dream,” he insisted.

Making his way towards the door later, carrying $440 
in cash, Peter surprised everyone with a confession. His 
eloquent pitch was made on impulse. He found the 
early conversation to be “vaporous, liberal, do-goody 
shit,” and wanted to fight for a specific cause that had 
affected him deeply. The Money acts as a petri dish for 
performed selflessness to flourish, for a microcosm of 
society—or at least those who can afford the tickets—to 
push and pull in search of consensus. As Peter left with 
the cash and a new assignment, he griped, “My wife is 
going to kill me.” 

Later that night, as Alice and Emily ushered the 
remaining guests out of the Library, two local elemen­
tary school students still disagreed. Theo and Ripley, 
the youngest ever players of The Money, reflected on 
the group’s ultimately unanimous decision to split 
the money between oral surgery charity Operation 
Smile and a devised wealth-sharing program the group 
called “Dollars at the DMV.” If given sole control, Rip­
ley admitted she’d keep the money for herself. Theo 
insisted he’d give it away. 

Zoe, a professor at the School of Management who 
teaches negotiation, and Jen, Chief Inspiration Officer 
at an independent consulting firm, attempted to bridge 
the gap between their children. They offered a sugges­
tion discussed in that night’s game, though it was ulti­
mately vetoed: “Who wants to go hide some origami 
dollars on the Green?” A type of charity, perhaps, but 
an ornate one. 

— Will Nixon is a sophomore 
in Pierson College.


**Title: A PRIZE OF ONE’S OWN**
**Author: Frances Lindemann**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

 8
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
A PRIZE OF ONE’S OWN
P O I N T  O F  D E PA R T U R E
Windham-Campbell Literary Prize winners reflect on unexpected fame 

As Aminatta Forna, a novelist raised in Sierra Leone and 
Great Britain, sat down to work in her office one morning 
in 2014, she noticed an email from an unknown address 
bolded in her inbox. The message informed her she had 
just been awarded a major literary prize, and with it, an 
enormous amount of money. Instinctively, she thought it 
was a scam—maybe one of those “Nigerian-based hoaxes 
that try to persuade you they have a huge amount of cash 
they just need to put in your bank account for a few days.”

It was no hoax: Forna had just received a 2014 
Windham-Campbell Prize for Fiction, an award that 
included an unrestricted grant of $150,000 to support 
her writing career. (Forna isn’t the only one who nearly 
missed her award. As Time covered in March 2016, Aus­
tralian Fiction writer Helen Garner similarly discov­
ered she had won a Windham-Campbell Prize when 
she checked her email’s spam folder.) 

The Windham-Campbell Prizes, or the Donald 
Windham-Sandy M. Campbell Prizes at Yale Univer­
sity, were first awarded to writers in March 2013, quickly 
entering the literary award arena as some of the most 
remunerative worldwide. It’s the latest in a long leg­
acy; literary prizes have been around almost as long as 
literature itself. As the New York Times’ Daniel Men­
delsohn notes in his November 2013 piece “Whom or 
What Are Literary Prizes For?,” tragedy as a genre was 
invented by the ancient Greeks for a prize-oriented 
drama festival. The Windham-Campbell Prize, funded 
by the estate of the late writer Donald Windham, offers 
a cash award second only to the Nobel Prize for Litera­
ture. Yet unlike the Nobel (or its peers the Man Booker 
Prize, the National Book Award, or the Pulitzer), the 
Windham-Campbells are not book prizes, but instead 
recognize a writer’s entire body of work. In this sense,


--- Page 9 ---

 9
they are more forward looking than others: they not 
only reward what a writer has already accomplished, 
but also anticipate the possibilities of what he or she 
might accomplish with more time, money, and public 
recognition.

Later this month, the nine winners of the 2016 Wind­
ham-Campbell Prizes will arrive on campus to receive 
their checks at the three-day prize festival. For most 
Yale students, the meaning of the prize is simple: a 
chance to rub elbows with the anointed literary elite, 
attend talks by famous speakers (this year’s keynote 
address will be delivered by the musician and mem­
oirist Patti Smith), and bask in the intellectual glow 
of writers discussing their work. For the winners, it is 
more complicated—a gift that comes with the implicit 
expectation of continued success in the future. 

Since the award is meant to come as a surprise, 
the selection committee does not contact nominated 
writers during the selection process. And although the 
prize money is intended to help liberate writers from 
financial concerns so they have more time to write, 
financial need cannot be taken directly into account. 
“We’ve given it to writers who needed it to pay for their 
health insurance and to writers who are wealthy,” said 
Michael Kelleher, the program director of WCP. “In 
terms of the impact on their career, that’s where the 
decision comes in.” That is, when choosing between 
two candidates of equal quality, the prize will more 
likely go to the lesser-known one. 

But not always. The prize goes to more established 
writers as well, such as the famous essayist Hilton Als, 
who won a 2016 Prize for Nonfiction and gave the key­
note address last year. Als joked in a phone interview 
that the prize “gives you a little boost and it gives you 
some money. Financial support gives you a trainer and 
a therapist to keep you going.” 

The archetype of the starving artist is compelled by 
some internal force to create, but hindered by finan­
cial burdens and the isolation and concentration that 
their work demands. The Windham-Campbell seems 
designed to ease this figure’s way. Adina Hoffman, a 
2013 recipient of the Windham-Campbell Prize for 
Nonfiction, describes her daily schedule as “either try­
ing to write or writing or erasing or scratching things 
out and rewriting or correcting proofs or looking at 
some archival letter or taking notes or staring at a pho­
tograph or checking the dictionary or reading a book 
that’s connected to what I’m trying to write.” Though 
Hoffman welcomed the money, “the prize itself was 
worth a great deal in other terms as well: it was a vote 
of literary confidence of the kind that doesn’t register 
on a bank statement.”

 Of course, that’s the central paradox of the prize 
festival, which celebrates the interior work of writing 
while parading writers in front of cheering crowds who 
have somehow identified with that introspection. For 
Als, writing is not about winning recognition but rather 
about “a kind of longing to communicate something to 
myself.” If that’s writing, then, I asked him, what’s the 
point of literary prizes?

“That’s for others to say,” he replied. “If they’re going 
to be nice enough to give you something, you should 
just take it and be gracious about it. I think art is self-de­
termining, and whoever gets to weigh in is welcome to, 
but it shouldn’t shape who you are or your goals.”

When Aminatta Forna received her $150,000 check, 
she bought gifts for people who had helped her during 
years of writing for little recognition and pay: crates of 
wine for a generous web designer, a nice dinner for a 
friend who had done Forna a favor. That the money 
didn’t fundamentally alter Forna’s lifestyle may be a 
sign of the prize’s success. After the happy surprise of 
receiving the award, after the glitz and glamour of the 
festival, the winners return home. Buoyed by the tangi­
ble benefit of cash, and the knowledge of other people’s 
high expectations, they continue to write. 

— Frances Lindemann is a sophomore 
in Davenport College.



**Title: A local takes a turn as a Yale tour guide**
**Author: Sophie Dillon**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“Give the facts, but share your personal experience,” 
says Joe Admissions, making friendly eye contact with the 
table of new recruits. When I applied to be a summer tour 
guide, I thought the job would be particularly easy for me, 
considering I grew up in New Haven and fancy myself as 
having some insider knowledge. Then, I read the “Yale 
Tour Facts” sheet and realized I didn’t know any of the bul­
let points. Some were interesting. A couple were wrong. 
Most were myths about statues. It was unclear how exactly 
I would give the facts and share my personal experience 
when some of the facts directly contradicted the history I’d 
amassed over my time on campus and in the city. In some 
ways my insider’s knowledge made me an outsider to the 
Yale presented in the Yale tour.


When I arrived for my first day, thinking my shift 
would consist of working the desk, I was informed that 
I had misread the spreadsheet. It turned out I had been 
scheduled for my first tour instead. 
“Great!” I shrieked to the student who was actually 
assigned to work the desk. I hadn’t looked at the fact sheet 
since the trial tour a few months back, during which I may 
or may not have forgotten Nathan Hale’s dying words 
until my interviewers pointed out they were engraved in 
rather large print around the base of his statue. I walked 
to the front of the visitor’s room and turned off the tele­
vision playing “That’s Why I Chose Yale,” the zealous, 
undergraduate-produced admissions video released in 
2010 to Internet celebrity.
“Welcome to Yale!” I said, clasping my hands profes­
sionally. “Will this half of the room come with me?” 


I. SOME BACKGROUND ON NEW HAVEN
Before we get started on Yale, let’s bust a few myths 
about New Haven. First, even though John Davenport 
founded the New Haven colony in 1638, the first people to 
inhabit this land were of the Quinnipiac tribe. Davenport 
purchased the land from the Quinnipiac, who then helped 
the New Haven settlers survive their first winters. If the 
Quinnipiac hadn’t already been living here for centuries, 
it’s unlikely that the European colony would have pulled 
through.


Perhaps in part because of that, the white guilt in this 
town is pretty staggering, so if you attend a New Haven 
Public Schools school you’ll likely spend your first eight 
years learning about Native Americans. A fully Caucasian 
visiting poet named Dan might regularly come to your 
fourth grade classroom and ask you to write poems from 
the perspective of Native Americans whose land has been 
invaded by Columbus. Some representatives of unknown 
heritage from Mohegan Sun will come tell you old Quin­
nipiac stories. This will be confusing, since you’d always 
thought Mohegan Sun was a casino where people went to 
see Kelly Clarkson and drink fine liquors. You will learn 
about twenty different kinds of sixteenth-century Native 
American dwellings. Yet somehow your teachers will 
fail to mention the fact that Native people are still alive. 
Thanks, Dan.


New Haven is also famous for food and firsts. We’re 
home to the first hamburger, the first Frisbee, the first 
factory to use interchangeable parts, and the first 
recorded use of the term “SWUG.” We’ve got a big Italian 
population, so our city is littered with amazing pizza and 
heated divisions among restaurant patrons, with the most 
famous being the Pepe’s/Sally’s divide. I’m a Pepe’s girl 
myself, though rumor has it Pope Benedict used to order 
Sally’s when he came to the Northeast, even if he was just 
crashing in New York for the night. What a diva. 


II. SILLIMAN COURTYARD
Welcome to the Silliman Courtyard. Maybe you recog­
nize it from the news. Isn’t it horrifying how it looks like 
this tree has an eye? 


Great, let’s move on.


III. WOOLSEY HALL
Ahh, Woolsey Hall, the alternate rain location of every 
high school graduation in New Haven. This is where 
the famous people come to speak—unless they’re really 
famous, in which case they speak at some undisclosed 
location and you find out a month later that they ever 
came (I’m looking at you, Meryl). Once I saw Morgan 
Freeman speak about the unique benefits of reading on a 
child’s developing mind. So there you have it: even Mor­
gan Freeman thinks the kids are watching too much TV 
these days.


Woolsey Hall is also home to the biggest nighttime 
racket in all of Yale: the YSO Yale Symphony Orchestra’s 
Halloween Show, for which Yalies “supposedly” play a 
live score over an “original” film they have “supposedly” 
“made.” If anyone ever scores tickets, please let me know 
so that I can verify the aforementioned rumors.  


On the other side of Woolsey Hall you’ll see Com­
mons—sorry, I mean the Schwarzman Center, donated 
graciously by the honorable Mr. Schwarzman Center. 
Currently students and faculty are brainstorming Ydeas 
for the Center’s future, such as my Ydea, which is to make 
the doors lighter.



IV. CROSS CAMPUS
Here we are at Cross Campus, which is apparently 
called Cross Campus because it’s shaped like a cross. Who 
knew? Underneath us is the behemoth known as Bass 
Library, where many a Yalie goes to be seen studying and, 
on occasion, running naked through the stacks.


All of the old-looking buildings around you were built 
by this architect named James who had a major hard-on 
for Oxford and Cambridge. I didn’t realize this until I vis­
ited Oxford a few years ago and experienced a tsunami of 
déjà vu. Yale’s campus is essentially a theme park version 
of Oxford—the buildings look authentic until you look 
down at your feet and see the gummed-over sidewalks 
and some kid’s vomit.


Also underground is a series of tunnels that connects 
parts of campus. You can climb into them through some 
key sewer grates on College and Wall streets—though 
these are heavily trafficked by cars, so it’s best to choose a 
friend you don’t like that much to sit in the middle of the 
street while you unscrew the grate. Decades of townies 
have traversed these tunnels, spray paint in hand, mark­
ing them with some of New Haven’s most infamous tags 
(such as the elusive “Milf Shake”). There’s even a room 
down there with a couch and a light with “BUCK FUSH” 
marked angrily on the wall. I mean, not that I would know 
from personal experience because going into the tunnels 
is illegal and I am a law-abiding citizen. Quick: I see a 
cop. Let’s move.



**Title: V. PHELPS GATE**
**Author: V.**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Welcome to Phelps Gate. I found out during our train­
ing that Phelps Gate is the official entrance to Yale Col­
lege. This is misleading, because Yale is everywhere. 
Except for right behind you. This is the New Haven 
Green. The Green was the center square of the original 
nine-square plan. That’s right, New Haven was the first 
planned city in America. This is ironic, because if New 
Haven was so great at planning, then how is it possible I 
grew up on a street that was one-way in both directions? 
Riddle me that, tourists!


A couple fun facts about the Green: first, it was orig­
inally a cemetery, since John Davenport built the Green 
around Center Church, and the Puritans believed that 
burying their dead around a church would help God find 
their souls. There are actually thousands of bodies buried 
under the Green. The city preserved some of the more 
prominent families’ gravestones in the a crypt beneath 
Center Church. The rest of the stones were stolen or 
relocated to the Grove Street Cemetery. When a bolt of 
lightning felled an oak tree on the Green during 2012’s 
Hurricane Sandy, a human skeleton was found tangled in 
the roots, its mouth open. 


Second, the New Haven Green is not actually owned 
by the City of New Haven. It’s owned by the Commit­
tee of the Proprietors of Common and Undivided Lands 
at New Haven, a private group with an unwieldy name, 
composed of the descendants of the New Haven colony’s 
original seven landholders. This wasn’t much of an issue 
until 2011, when New Haven’s branch of Occupy Wall 
Street set up shop on the Green. When the New Haven 
Police tried to remove the occupation, protestors took the 
City to court, arguing the City didn’t have the right to 
remove them from the Committee’s land. While Occupy 
ultimately lost the case and had to relocate camp, this lit­
tle loophole helped Occupy New Haven become the lon­
gest lasting occupation in the Northeast. With our per­
fect storm of college students, free-spirited liberals, and 
a booming homeless population, Occupy New Haven was 
the spot to be for a solid eight months. Plus protesting 
the 1 percent was always more fun than attending high 
school. Again, not that I would know from firsthand 
experience because I cherish rules.
V.


**Title: VII. THE YALE BOOKSTORE**
**Author: Sophie Dillon**
**Page number(s): 14**

And now our tour must come to an end, conveniently 
located by a store where you can buy all sorts of Y-em­
blazoned stuff for three times what it’s worth. Or you can 
find a nice book, read it in the store, and then put it back 
on the shelf with a few friendly dog-ears for the next time 
you want to visit. If anybody wants lunch, you can buy 
a fourteen-dollar salad at Claire’s Cornercopia Corner 
Copia, or you can steal an iced tea from Gourmet Heaven, 
climb a fire escape, and see how many phalluses you can 
find in the Gothic architecture. First one to thirty wins!
— Sophie Dillon is a senior 
in Davenport College.


**Title: VI. OLD CAMPUS**
**Author: VI.**

This real-life brochure in front of you is called Old 
Campus. Those two sturdy boys playing catch over there 
are not, in fact, being paid to do so by Yale Admissions. 
Apparently some people just like to play catch for fun! 
You really do meet all kinds of people in college.


That statue over there is Nathan Hale, who is famous 
for being a crap spy. The man volunteered to collect intel­
ligence on the Brits by posing as a Dutch schoolteacher 
during the Revolutionary War, and was caught after 
only a few weeks. He was hanged with a Bible and a Yale 
diploma in hand, prompting his famous last words: “Cs 
get degrees, but degrees don’t get you much when you’re 
getting hanged for treason.” 


Also this isn’t really a statue of Nathan Hale, since no 
one could find a picture of him when Yale decided to make 
the honorary statue in 1914. Instead, the Administration 
lined up the Yale class Class of 1914 and chose the most 
patriotic-looking man for the mold.


The bigger statue by that tree is Theodore Dwight 
Woolsey, the only president of a northern university to 
not send southern students home during the Civil War. 
There’s a story about how his toe is lucky, so people rub 
it for good luck, but don’t be fooled—that toe is more 
golden with student urine than with luck. This isn’t just a 
Yale tradition. Harvard similarly has a big statue of John 
Harvard with a toe that tourists rub for luck and students 
relieve themselves on for laughs. Oh, the Ivy League!


Of course, that one’s not really a statue of John Har­
vard either, and John Harvard didn’t even found Harvard. 
That’s sort of how this whole thing works, if you hav­
en’t figured it out already. Someone builds something on 
somebody else’s land, and later it gets named after a bene­
factor with nebulous ties to the building. And that’s how 
tradition is made, folks.  
VI.



**Title: QUEST FOR THE GOLDEN RHYME**
**Author: Claudia Mezey**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 16
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
QUEST FOR THE 
GOLDEN RHYME
P R O F I L E
A young New Haven rapper strives 
to find recognition
Claudia Mezey
illustration 
allie primack, ivy sanders 
schneider. photo jennifer lu.


There’s a charged silence as 22-year-old Matthew Bar­
rington Bethea IV, sitting in the Starbucks across from the 
New Haven Green, searches for the title of one of those 
songs he “put more of himself into.” He cannot remem­
ber its name, but he recalls the lyrics with ease: 
Don’t wait up ’cause time ain’t waiting on you;
You let all the problems pilin’ up, now the weight 
is on you.
You been strugglin’ in the street, claim you’re hun­
gry, tryna eat, 
But what happens when you look in the mirror 
and the weight is on you.
His voice lifts the stale air of the New Haven café 
where we sit. Bethea, or “IV” (pronounced as two let­
ters) as he’s known by his one thousand−plus fans on 
the online music platform ReverbNation, leans deli­
cately over the table. He seems at ease, yet he never 
removes his heavy coat. The song he offers, “HOW 
MUCH REALER,” is one of his “struggle-slash-moti­
vation” tracks. For his audience, it’s a call to action. 
For him, it’s a reflection on the weight he carries as a 
young rapper with a small following, trying to make it 
big. He wonders how to balance the uncertain future 
with his need to pay the bills; how to yank himself out 
of neutral to produce work that satisfies his standards 
and fans; how to speak to himself and to his audience 
simultaneously. 
“I mean, I do it with the intentions and hopes that 
the one person who’s going through this is hearing 
this,” he says. 
But how to reach that one person is an open ques­
tion for IV, other rappers in New Haven’s small but 
active hip-hop scene, and artists worldwide. IV says 
his goal is to “catch the listener” with lyrics that mat­
ter. He has recorded tracks with Phil Blount, owner of 
the recording studio No Gimmick in southwest New 
Haven. Since the nineteen-eighties rapper Steve Wil­
liams, known as “Stezo,” got two singles onto the Bill­
board 100 R&B/Hip-Hop Chart, no recent rapper from 
the city has been able to build a comparable national 
audience and put the city on the hip-hop map. IV, like 
many others, wants to change that. 

Connecticut’s first well-known rapper of the early 
nineteen-eighties, Tony Pearson (“Mr. Magic”), told 
the New Haven Register in 2011 that New Haven’s 
hip-hop scene is a gold mine for new talent, especially 
with the advent of home-recording software that allows 
IV and his peers to mix tracks in their bedrooms. But 
there’s no established pipeline for that talent to go to 
the big leagues. In the wake of New Haven mayor John 
DeStefano Jr.’s decision to raze the New Haven Coli­
seum in 2007 because of the steep cost of operation, 
few venues remain.
“We only have one place,” IV explains, referring to 
Toad’s Place. “We need more.”  

Blount recognizes IV’s potential to not only join the 
ranks of those rappers he places in New Haven’s rap 
elite—IB Trizzy, Tye Henney, and Wiley Don, who’ve 
all taken the stage on myriad occasions at Toad’s 
Place—but also to break through the limitations of 
New Haven’s music scene. Although IV has yet to reel 
in the number of local fans that IB Trizzy and Wiley 
Don have, Blount thinks IV could transcend their 
level: “IV raps way beyond his age in terms of his con­
tent.” According to Blount, IV “fits [New Haven] like 
a glove.” 

IV has dabbled in the 203’s vibrant rap battle scene, 
recorded a few tracks with Blount, and collaborated 
with other local rappers. His ReverbNation profile says 
he “sounds like” Drake and J. Cole. But those artists 
are far away, and there’s no road map from New Haven 
to where they are. 


IV’s interest in rap began when he was around six 
years old, riding shotgun in his uncle’s car with the 
radio blaring. “[My uncle] started rapping, and I asked 
him, ‘How do you do that?’ and he taught me how to 
do it, and then I started writing it,” IV recalls. “And he 
laughed at the first one I wrote, because it was garbage.” 
He worked from there. Throughout middle school, IV 
took the stage at poetry open-mic nights every second 
Thursday for cash prizes. In the family room with his 
mom, IV was immersed in the Motown sensuality of 
Stevie Wonder and Guess Who’s Back? by 50 Cent. 
“This is where I came from,” he says.
Born in Manhattan, he lost his father when he was 7 
and moved to New Haven when he was 16; his mother 
recently passed away. In the song “28° Fahrenheit,” he 
offers an intimate, pensive rendering of his relationship 
with his parents. He raps about the marked contrast 
between the advice of “Moms and Pops,” and the frag­
mentation he faced after they died:
My tie between my Moms and Pops completely 
disassemble
They took the road to Heaven, then I can’t afford 
the rental
Vivid dreams play in my mind as I’m tellin’ them 
what I’ve been through
Pops told me don’t be gentle; Mom said live it 
through the pencil.

IV’s foray into serious music composition began in 
a concrete-walled classroom at New Haven’s Wilbur 


Cross High School. In January of 2013, Donald Sawyer, 
an Assistant Professor of Sociology at Quinnipiac Uni­
versity, founded a hip-hop advisory program at Wilbur 
Cross. The inaugural class was made up of twenty-five 
young men, including IV. Many members had been 
affected by gun violence, economic deprivation, racial 
discrimination, and the daily reality of metal detectors 
and uniformed officers in their school hallways. Sawyer 
transformed his drab classroom into an artistic incuba­
tor, teaching poetry through the lens of music while 
encouraging each student’s unique voice. 

Sawyer recognized IV’s potential from the begin­
ning. “On the day we met,” Sawyer says, “it was clear 
that he was a talent. He had a mastery of the English 
language.” One of the most talented musicians of his 
class, IV stood out because of the way his lyrics con­
fronted adversity head-on. 

IV feels indebted to Sawyer, whom he calls “Don,” 
and the role he played in his artistic development. 
Aside from showing IV the value of weaving literary 
devices, irony, and rhyme into his work, Sawyer gave 
IV the tools to be a keen observer. “He taught me it’s all 
about taking in what’s going on around you,” IV says.

After his formative period in the “judgment-free 
zone” of Sawyer’s classroom, IV began performing in 
New Haven’s Arts and Ideas Festival in 2014, ‘open-
box’ rap-sparring events on the New Haven Green, and 
cyphers (continuous freestyle sessions) in New York 
and Connecticut. He won a talent show at Quinnipiac 
University this past February. Despite his growing vis­
ibility as an artist, IV’s music doesn’t pay his living; he 
works at Bruegger’s Bagels on Whalley Avenue. 

But there’s a reason why IV’s lyrics stood out to fig­
ures like Sawyer and Blount. His work takes from the 
wisdom of Jay-Z’s Decoded: “Bang out a rhythmic idea.” 
Even though IV was born decades after the lyricism of 
Gil Scott-Heron in the early nineteen-seventies and the 
dynamism of Run-DMC’s self-titled 1984 album, his 
music recalls those earlier styles. IV’s songs have what 
Sawyer calls “old soul […] touched by the golden era 
of hip-hop.”

When Sawyer drove IV to a rap battle in Lower Man­
hattan one late weeknight in high school, the roars of 
the crowd carried IV—“the kid from Connecticut?”—to 
a silver medal. “He showed that he was able to hang,” 
said Sawyer.


Even with the praise IV receives from Sawyer and 
Blount, there’s still room for him to penetrate the local 
New Haven music market by booking shows and mar­
keting himself to the community.

When he’s not working his day job, IV directs his 
efforts toward refining his first mixtape for release 
this fall. “I’m still trying to learn to balance life and 
music at the same time,” he admits. He scribbles down 
verses in his collection of “old-school” notebooks, and 
he invites his sixty-eight Facebook followers to rec­
ommend beats. He participates in cyphers every few 
months, like Grind Mode Cyphers in New York this 
July. He posts weekly rap videos from his desk or couch. 
In them, slivers of a pillow, blinds, or a blank wall are 
barely visible behind him as he raps, his shaky camera 
work intensifying the urgency of his delivery. He strate­
gically curates this new online material with hashtags 
and links to the social media sites of other artists. 

Yet these current efforts leave IV’s career stagnant 
or, at least, slow-growing; his ReverbNation followers 
fluctuate by just one or two each week. He is counting 
on his pending mixtape to establish him.

Unlike local pioneer Pearson, who has always clung 
to his New Haven roots, IV avidly seeks to avoid the 
local musician trap. He explains, “I’m trying to spread, 
I’m not just trying to be in New Haven, I’m not just 
trying to be in Connecticut, because…I don’t want to 
be ‘local.’ ‘Just local.’” 

For IV and amateur artists like him, the present 
moment is pivotal. As he tries to construct a distinct 
identity for himself, he must do so with sensitivity to 
the dichotomies that frame any early music career. At 
Bruegger’s, he’s Matt; on Facebook, he’s IV. As a lyricist, 
he studies poetics; as a musician, he wants to produce 
music that can be readily remixed in the club setting. 
He desires to bust through the boundaries of the “just 
local” 203; but, as Blount explains, he must wholly 
become IV, “change his government name,” define his 
audience, maintain virtual and physical proximity to 
that audience, and forge a brand that meets its needs. 
For now, it’s easy for IV to envision a future in which 
he is Drake-famous, reaching fans worldwide. It is 
harder for him to figure out the route to that future. 
Every few weeks, as he publishes a new Facebook 
recording, amassing close to one thousand views, he 
addresses the anonymous fan and theoretical viewer he 
isn’t quite sure how to reach. Watching him, I found it 
nearly impossible to hold his glassy gaze. He seems to 
treat the camera like a mirror, rapping for himself.

— Claudia Mezey is a sophomore
in Timothy Dwight College.



**Title: WAIT WHAT’S THE QUESTION?**
**Author: Pablo Uribe**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
p o e m
I got us a mystery and I need you!   I’ll say when
Can you make magic with how about this?  
The mountain is not preserving     I don’t care about the dirt in my mouth 
I need to grab on to this rope of yours
Is the water broken?    Is that a tree or a grave? 
Yes   without a wing it’s not a ship     but I found all the animals on that day 
Who here can keep promises? 
Nobody    Throw your clock out the window if you want it to be night time 
Here’s the thing I’m a negotiator    Here’s the thing things have names 
I think they were gold purple yellow orange and red! 
Let’s do that every single day    We have everything we need in the wheelberry
and I’m always watching    I’m not a door    I want a rematch
—
The twenty-two phrases printed above were spoken by twenty-two different kids, 
ages 5-12, at Common Ground, a high school, urban farm, and environmental 
education center in West Rock. The writer worked there as a counselor this 
summer. 


**Title: THE EDGE OF**
**Author:  (not specified)**
**Page number(s): 20**

 20
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
THE EDGE OF 
S
I
H
O


**Title: (Untitled)**
**Page number(s): 21**

SEPTEMBER 2016
 21
Mikayla Harris never thought of herself as a typical 
sorority girl. Like many women who become involved 
with sororities at Yale, she was attracted to the Univer­
sity in part because Greek organizations don’t dominate 
the social life. But sometime around the end of her first 
semester, after attending first classes, going to first keg­
gers, and making first friends, she began to wonder if 
something was missing. Like hundreds of other women 
at Yale seeking community, female friendship, and 
extracurricular and professional opportunities, Harris 
decided to rush. Unlike most women in sororities, Har­
ris is Black.
In the winter of 2014, Harris, now a senior, was ini­
tiated into Pi Beta Phi (Pi Phi). In her pledge class, 
she was one of eight women of color, part of a group 
that comprised about sixteen percent of the class—an 
unusually high figure for the sorority, Harris said. (In 
the Yale undergraduate population, about thirty per­
cent identify as students of color.) If Harris’s class devi­
ated from the Pi Phi norm, she says it was thanks to one 
woman: Olivia, an older Pi Phi member at the time 
and member of Yale’s Afro-American Cultural House. 
“She really wanted to make Pi Phi as diverse as possi­
ble,” Harris said of Olivia. “I was like, if people who 
look like me are in this, then Ill join it.”
Olivia described her work to make Pi Phi more inclu­
sive, with a tinge of irony, as being like “the ambassador 
for Pi Phi” to the Af-Am House. (Olivia asked to be 
identified by a pseudonym to avoid the backlash she 
said accompanies “the airing of uncomfortable truths 
within Yale’s Greek community.”) Harris also said she 
sometimes felt there was a “frustrating” burden on her 
to single-handedly diversify the group. “It’s a lot of pres­
sure on the women of color to get other women of color 
to join,” she explained.
Harris resigned—the official term for cutting ties—
from Pi Phi in the winter of 2016 in part because of 
time constraints, but also because she found it harder, 
as she puts it, to “push it out of my mind that I was 
one of the only Black people in a room” after the cam­
pus-wide demonstrations regarding race last fall.
Shortly after she made her decision, the ritual of rush 
unfolded much as it does every year, but Yale’s campus 
had changed. Throughout the fall, students witnessed 
charged conversations and protests about racial justice, 
and students of color described experiences that con­
tradicted the admissions brochure narrative of a com­
munity that is not only diverse but also fully inclusive. 
Student organizations at Yale put out Facebook state­
ments of their failures, desires to change, and support 
T
E
R
D



**Title: The New Journal for Women of Color**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 22
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
for women of color. 
Sororities, often seen as bastions of race and class 
privilege, were no exception. All four of the sorori­
ties—Pi Beta Phi, Kappa Alpha Theta, Kappa Kappa 
Gamma, and newcomer Alpha Phi—held chapter-wide 
conversations, and Yale’s Panhellenic Council, com­prised of representatives from all the sororities, held 
an open forum just before recruitment that sought to 
establish new diversification initiatives regarding race 
and income. 

Attendees broke into small groups where they dis­
cussed big questions: How could they make sororities 
more accessible? What role should they play as a group 
of women in discussions about racial justice? How 
should they be better allies to women of color?

Lauren Weston, a member of Pi Phi who graduated 
in 2016 and who is also Black, echoed Harris’s senti­
ment that she hadn’t initially anticipated the sorority to 
be especially racially inclusive. “I never came to Yale 
expecting my sorority to be this all-encompassing entity 
that would support me as a marginalized person,” she 
told me. “I didn’t expect it to go out of its way to include 
people of color, because most places don’t do that.”

Increasingly, however, students at Yale and across the 
country are asking for exactly that. In the Yale College 
Council Greek Life Task Force Report, released this 
past May, students of color in focus groups “explained 
that due to the homogeneity of much of Greek life, 
they are often not only at a disadvantage during recruit­
ment, but are also vulnerable to feelings of discomfort 
and exclusion.” The report called on Greek organiza­
tions to have honest conversations about the degree to 
which their membership reflects campus at large. 

At Yale, exclusivity, reputation, and hierarchy per­
vade aspects of student life from seminars to senior 
societies, and sororities are no exception. Pi Phi and 
Theta members sometimes speak frankly about the 
general campus perception that they particularly attract 
privileged women; Theta member and junior Sophie 
Freeman described Theta’s campus reputation as “rich 
bitches.” Pi Phi and Theta offer their members entrée 
to a particular sliver of the Yale social scene, one that 
blooms around High Street frats and at glitzy formals 
that yield a slew of similar Facebook profile photos. 

I spoke to past and present members of Pi Phi and 
Theta about their ability to provide communities, safe 
spaces, and platforms for Yale women. At a university 
where students continue to engage in heated and often 
painful debates about institutional inclusivity, the 
question is: Which women?


Every winter, Yale freshman and sophomore women 
gather to primp in residential college bathrooms, shar­


--- Page 23 ---

SEPTEMBER 2016
 23
ing straightening irons and eyelash curlers, rummag­
ing through roommates’ closets for the perfect top, and 
finally pouring out of dorms into the barely-plowed 
streets. Many walk in high-heeled boots, huddling 
close together for warmth in the second-semester cold. 
They hope to join a tradition that stretches back more 
than a century. 

As Jessica Bennett noted in  last spring’s piece in The 
New York Times, “When a Feminist Pledges a Sorority,” 
sororities began in the nineteenth century with the mis­
sion of helping young women navigate hostile co-ed 
institutions. Some early sorority members were active 
in the suffragette movement, and the groups served as 
organizing spaces for women seeking social, academic, 
and professional support. Kappa Alpha Theta came 
to Yale in 1986, less than twenty years after Yale Col­
lege accepted women in 1969. Kappa and Pi Phi fol­
lowed in 1987 and 1989, respectively. When Theta was 
founded, it was the only sorority on Yale’s campus, in 
some ways following in the footsteps of the early twen­
tieth century groups by serving as an alternative to all-
male fraternities and secret societies.

But while sororities are meant to offer refuge to 
female students, they don’t always become more inclu­
sive as student bodies become more diverse. As Ben­
nett points out, many sororities responded to an influx 
of first Jewish students, and then students of color, 
by tightening their recruitment process, safeguarding 
their privilege and, often, their whiteness. Their his­
tories share something with the American feminist 
movement: wealthy, educated white women struggled 
for equality with white men, holding onto what power 
they had while excluding large numbers of low-income 
women and women of color.   

Skyler Inman, director of the Yale College Council’s 
Greek Life Task Force and president of Alpha Phi, said 
that sororities and fraternities have been at the “van­
guard of tradition in a very negative way in a lot of 
places.” 

Today, Yale’s sororities are reckoning with that his­
tory. Some sorority sisters, like their early founders, 
want their organizations to be homes for political activ­
ism and platforms from which they can effect change. 
Unlike the first sorority members, many hope their 
organizations can one day provide a supportive com­
munity for all women. 

The recruitment process, where each member’s rela­
tionship with her sorority begins, is an example of how 
unquestioned traditions can create barriers to access. 
But relatively small changes in these traditions could 
have a big impact on the composition of the group. 
In most sororities, the executive board turns over right 
before the rush process, so deliberating over a new class 
is any new president’s first opportunity to make major 
decisions. It’s the entry point for diversification. As sev­
eral women made clear to me, it’s where you would 
start if you wanted to change things. 

The culture of recruitment is such that some peo­
ple may feel they must arrive ready to talk about their 
prep schools or summer homes, according to Nat 
Wyatt, a Theta, and Diana, a member of the Theta 
executive board. (Diana requested to be identified 
by a pseudonym after corresponding with the group’s 
international organization about this piece.) Some of 
this atmosphere comes from old reputation, but some 
comes from modern practice.

Before the actual rush process starts, Pi Phis and 
Thetas have traditionally had the opportunity to alert 
their sisters to friends and family who may be rushing. 
Facebook profiles were projected on a screen in the Pi 
Phi or Theta house, during a sort of unofficial pre-re­
cruitment presentation. It is a tradition that allows 
women to give people they already know—often peo­
ple similar to them—a small advantage. 

Weston described the practice as “fifteen minutes of 
Greenwich, Connecticut girls.”

At the Panhellenic meeting in November, practices 
like the pre-recruitment slideshow faced criticism. 
Many of the most concrete suggestions for change con­
cerned rush. One proposal was that sororities be more 
transparent about finances during the recruitment 
process. In the past, the Panhellenic Council has man­
dated that sororities not specify their exact dues during 
recruitment. Instead, the Council gives a pre-recruit­
ment presentation to women rushing, which depicts a 
range of dues. A Panhellenic Council member said the 
dues typically range from $300 to $500 per semester; 
she declined to provide information about each soror­
ity’s specific dues. 

“They don’t want us going up to girls and saying, 
‘Well, Kappa is…cheaper than Theta.’ They don’t want 
us influencing girls in that way,” Carly Huard, a mem­
ber of Kappa, told me. She recounted an instance last 
winter in which a woman rushing found out another 
sorority’s more expensive dues and decided to with­
draw from recruitment. Huard told me the woman had 
assumed all the sororities had equally expensive dues 
and that she couldn’t afford to be in any of them. 

“Maybe the concern is that people will start segregat­
ing themselves by income,” Huard told me, “but what 
happens is people who think they can’t afford it just 
drop out anyway.” 

The Panhellenic Council disagreed. They decided 
they’d continue to run that first meeting themselves, 
but stressed that “each sorority had an obligation to 
explain their financial situation at some point during 


--- Page 24 ---

 24
recruitment,” Diana explained. For some, it presented 
an opportunity for a turning point—the chance to 
speak candidly to potential members about the finan­
cial burdens of sorority life. For others, the lack of a 
clear directive from the Council opened the door to 
continued obfuscation about dues. “To what extent it 
was explained was sort of up to the group,” Diana said. 
The Council’s decision put the burden of change in 
the hands of individual sororities rather than address­
ing it at a systemic level.


When Jéssica Leão rushed Theta, it was for one main 
reason: “I had heard Theta was number one, and that’s 
why I joined it basically,” Leão, who became president 
of Theta in 2015, told me nonchalantly, flipping a lock 
of her dark brown hair over her shoulder. She was walk­
ing with difficulty, on crutches after a recent accident, 
but wore a tight crop-top and shorts to our interview.

Leão, who graduated in May, may have joined Theta 
because of its elite reputation, but she quickly realized 
there was much she didn’t share with many of the other 
members. 

“I’m from Brazil, I’m from Latin America, my parents 
don’t speak English, I’m a QuestBridge Scholar here,” 
Leão told me, explaining that she had personal reasons 
for wanting Theta to be a more inclusive organization. 
In 2014, she ran for president to effect those changes 
herself. “I was, I guess, particularly good at assimilating 
into white spaces and rich spaces,” she said.

As president of the sorority in 2015, she tackled 
recruitment as the first challenge. 

“I feel like when I went through recruitment, people 
were like, ‘Oh my god, I love your shirt, I love your ear­
rings,’ and we were like, ‘Don’t make this about materi­
alism,’” she said. She wanted the group to instead focus 
on the interests of those pledging. “What we were look­
ing for was people who were really engaged and pas­
sionate about something and leaders in their own right, 
and not pretty girls, basically.” She says the class she 
recruited as president was “incredibly diverse.” Accord­
ing to Theta’s executive board, thirty-five percent of the 
new members initiated in January 2016 are women of 
color, compared to roughly twenty percent of the class 
initiated in 2014. 

Theta members I spoke to insist that Leão’s efforts 
have redefined their sorority. Diana points to Leão’s 
presence as a Latina sorority president as a huge shift 
in and of itself. 

What started with Leão’s discussions last year has 
grown into a revamping of some of Theta’s traditions. 
The sorority now has a speaker series that includes lec­
tures on the prison-industrial complex. Last year, they 
held a fundraising drive for the Flint Water Fund that 
caused Yale’s NAACP representative Brea Baker, who 
graduated in 2015, to say she was surprised Theta had 
participated in such an initiative.  

Most significant, however, seems to be Theta’s new 
financial aid plan. Like most sororities, Theta’s national 
chapter offered competitive scholarships for academic 
costs, such as books and tuition, but no assistance for 
paying dues. This year’s executive board wanted to 
change that. 

Diana told me she thought about asking alums, cur­
rent members, and members’ parents for funds to sup­
port scholarships, though doing so without permission 
from the international organization would be against 
its policies. According to Liz Rinck of Theta’s interna­
tional staff, restrictions from the Internal Revenue Ser­
vice prohibit raising money for individual members. 
Despite the restrictions, Diana said, the chapter 
began fundraising in November. “I wasn’t hiding it 
from [internationals],” she told me, “I just didn’t con­
sult them.” 

Freeman has a different take: “I don’t think our 
financial aid program is legal technically,” she told 
me. “We didn’t want to ask [internationals] because we 
were pretty sure they’d say no. So they’re not super sup­
portive of that, which seems racist to me, and classist.”

Diana eventually broke the news to the international 
Theta organization, who explained that if they depos­
ited the money for safe-keeping with an alumni orga­
nization instead of retaining the rights to dispense it 
themselves, they wouldn’t be breaking the anti-fund­
raising rules. Diana continued fundraising over winter 
break, eventually raising five thousand dollars from 
alumni and parents. Their financial aid program is 
currently supporting twenty percent of the 2016 pledge 
class.

Celeste Dushime, a current Theta and member of 
last year’s pledge class, is one of the new members 
using Theta’s financial aid plan. Dushime is from 
Rwanda and identifies as queer. In “old” Theta, she 
would be an anomaly. “New” Theta insists she exem­
plifies a growing wave of change.

When I asked Dushime if she thought the sororities 
had been transparent about dues during recruitment, 
she told me Theta was the most straightforward, which 
led to her choice to join. She reiterated that dues and 
financial aid were “the first thing that they talked 
about” at the first recruitment event. 

Wyatt is in Dushime’s Theta pledge class, and as far 
as they know they are the only non-binary person in all 
of Yale Greek life. They mentioned Theta’s financial 
aid program as a reason why they joined. “I thought 
this could be fun, this could be interesting, but I was 
like, man…I don’t know if I can put my name with 



**Title: Sorority Life at Yale**
**Author: Fiona Lowenstein**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
SEPTEMBER 2016
 25
an institution that essentially is fundamentally elitist 
and does not give people the opportunity who are from 
lower socio-economic backgrounds to actually be a part 
of this group,” Wyatt said.

The scholarship program has made a difference for 
Theta, at least in the eyes of a few new members. But 
it required the chapter to sidestep traditional rules in a 
way that is perhaps difficult for others to replicate.

In Pi Phi, the “Greenwich girl” slideshow is now 
gone—a change intended to make the recruitment 
process a more level playing field. In Theta, it contin­
ues, though one member emphasized that in recent 
years members have been asked to introduce only close 
friends, and that the sorority hasn’t decided whether 
it will continue the slideshow tradition this year. But 
while Theta and Pi Phi both contend with highly 
restrictive national organizations, the rule regarding 
fundraising that Theta seems to have circumvented 
appears especially strict for Pi Phi, which has not estab­
lished a scholarship program. 

Some members argue that, even as campus at large 
has paid more attention to concerns of inclusivity and 
racial diversity, Pi Phi has remained predominantly 
white. Due to international organization rules about 
speaking with the press, the current executive board 
of Pi Phi and members contacted individually either 
declined to comment for this piece or did not respond 
to requests. A spokeswoman for the international orga­
nization also declined to comment.

Weston told me she was frustrated by how few women 
of color were in the sorority during her time at Yale. 
Out of forty-four members in her pledge class, Weston 
counted four black women, one of whom withdrew 
before graduating. Chapter President Miranda McKay 
declined to provide statistics about the number of their 
members who are women of color, but Weston, among 
several other women interviewed, perceived a decline 
in Pi Phi’s diversity during her time at Yale. “It’s been 
noticeable to the point that I’ve talked to other people 
about it,” Weston said.

Harris and Weston told me that the underrepresenta­
tion of women of color in Pi Phi isn’t the only problem. 
They say the culture of Greek life, and of fraternities in 
particular, is hostile to women of color. Weston stopped 
attending mixers with fraternities. “I did feel marginal­
ized. Just in terms of feeling beautiful,” she told me. 
“What people are looking for, what is seen as hot in 
SAE [Sigma Alpha Epsilon] and Sig Ep. And obviously 
it sucks to wonder what the guys are going to want, but 
you want to be talked to, and when your friend next 
to you is chatting and you’re just standing there, you 
notice these things. It’s one of those unspoken truths 
with women of color.” 

Olivia, the self-described “ambassador for Pi Phi” to 
the Af-Am House, deactivated from the sorority after 
a brother from SAE—which disassociated from its 
national organization in May and is now called Leo—
addressed her using a racial slur at Spring Fling. She 
told me she didn’t feel comfortable turning to her Pi 
Phi sisters for support. 

“I knew nothing would come of it and there wouldn’t 
be a response from my sisters,” Olivia explained. “They 
would have found a way to excuse it.” (Leo President 
Grant Mueller said he was unaware of the incident 
Olivia described and “would definitely not condone 
that in any sort of fashion.”)

Olivia said it wasn’t until she heard about the pro­
tests this fall that she realized her problem with Pi 
Phi had been with the frats they associated with. Like 
Weston, she said that “racialized dating preferences” 
often caused her to be left out of conversations at mix­
ers. Sometimes the brothers made her feel invisible. “I 
always felt kind of flabbergasted at the fact that every 
time they would meet me, it was like ‘oh who are you 
again?’ You know very well who I am.” 

Last fall, at a Pi Phi–specific discussion about race, 
members of color voiced that they felt the sorority 
should not mix with SAE again. It was a serious pro­
posal—Pi Phi had long been unofficially “paired” with 
SAE for many campus mixers and events. Jenny Allen, 
an Asian-American former member who resigned from 
Pi Phi in 2015, recounted a similar discussion in the 
spring of 2015. After SAE was accused of violating 
Yale’s code of sexual misconduct, Allen went to the 


--- Page 26 ---

 26
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Pi Phi executive board to propose that they cancel an 
upcoming mixer, an incident Harris and Olivia also 
remember. The Executive Board agreed to cancel, but 
it didn’t cut ties between the two groups. 

Harris told me she wasn’t sure what conclusion the 
Pi Phi board had eventually come to in the fall. She 
said she was dissatisfied with what she perceived as an 
initial lack of action. 

Leo President Mueller says that Pi Phi ultimately 
decided to stop mixing with SAE last fall, and they 
gave SAE tips on how they could improve. Mueller 
says the organization is trying to listen. “They wanted 
to see more overt efforts to make our house as safe as 
possible,” he said. He explained that Leo is “really tak­
ing it over the top now” with female bartenders and 
increased sober monitors, but he did not mention any 
changes outside of party environments.

At the end of each of my interviews, I asked my subject 
to recommend other sorority members I should speak 
with. Thetas, in particular, were excited to recommend 
friends. At the beginning of the interview process I was 
surprised by the names they easily rattled off: women of 
color, women from low-income backgrounds, women 
who are passionate about social justice. 

At first, it seemed like there was an almost over­
whelming number of sorority women from what I con­
sidered “non-traditional” backgrounds. However, as I 
continued my interviews, the names began to repeat: 
Celeste Dushime, Sophie Freeman, Jessica Leão, Nat 
Wyatt, Diana. It soon became clear that this group of 
Theta changemakers might be smaller and more insu­
lar than I had initially thought. 

On several occasions, I mentioned in conversation 
with subjects that I had spoken to a queer woman of 
color in Theta. Almost everyone I spoke to guessed it 
was Dushime. I asked Dushime if she ever worries that 
Theta is tokenizing her. She laughed. 

“I always wonder if my achievements that I’ve 
accomplished here are because I deserve to be admit­
ted, or if I got admitted because I’m a Rwandan female 
student applying,” she said. Wyatt had similar qualms 
about the recruitment process. “Yeah, I look very dif­
ferent from everyone else in Theta, I really do,” they 
said. “But, that being said, I went to Exeter, I’m from 
New York City, I’m affluent, I’m white. I’m gender 
non-conforming, but to them I look like a combination 
of Ruby Rose and Justin Bieber.” Theta isn’t yet at a 
point where Wyatt feels comfortable encouraging trans 
or non-binary friends of color to join. 

Increasingly, women seeking single-gender spaces 
at Yale have options beyond sororities. The Yale Black 
Women’s Coalition, founded in 2006, seeks to pro­
vide a network for Black women at Yale. Dara Hug­
gins, YBWC President until this spring, described the 
group’s mission as “to cultivate a space where Black 
women on campus could discuss various topics related 
to that community, have social events, and act as a net­
work for professional and academic reasons.” Huggins 
says that membership in the YBWC has increased in 
the past year, specifically during the events of the fall. 
The YBWC doesn’t require their members to pay 
dues, or choose between their group and sorority life. 
They have several members who are also a part of soror­
ities. Huggins was quick to explain that the YBWC is 
not a sorority in any way, and “isn’t akin to the Divine 
Nine,” the national historically Black sororities and fra­
ternities. “However, I don’t think it’s coincidental that 
we don’t have that and we happen to only have this,” 
Huggins said of the absence of Black Greek life.

Yale’s multicultural sorority, Omega Phi Beta, has 
grown slowly since its Yale chapter was founded in 
March 2014 after five Yale students petitioned for its 
establishment. Olivia mentioned the income diver­
sity in multicultural and historically Black and Latino 
sororities, adding, “I think that’s something that more 
predominantly white sororities can learn from.” 

Unfortunately, there doesn’t seem to be much com­
munication between the Panhellenic sororities and 
Omega Phi Beta, or even the YBWC. “There is a very 
minimal relationship, and that relationship is mostly 
fueled by the fact that some of our members are part 
of the Panhellenic groups,” Huggins explained. “But 
there hasn’t been any kind of active reach-out that I 
can recall from sororities.” Some members told me 
Theta and Pi Phi don’t communicate much with each 
other, either.

Many people I spoke with were quick to explain 
that the diversity problems sororities are facing are 
not unique to those groups at Yale. Dushime said 
Yale “equips you early” to feel marginalized by class 
or income. Wyatt expressed that they think we “live 
in a society that has these issues,” and that “Greek life 
is a microcosm.” Weston’s early claim that she didn’t 
expect her sorority to go out of the way to support her as 
a marginalized person reflects a general sentiment that 
the problems of Theta and Pi Phi are the problems of 
Yale, and perhaps society more broadly.

Olivia was originally pessimistic about the institu­
tional potential of Yale sororities—until the end of our 
call, when she asked me what I’d learned throughout 
my research process. I mentioned Theta’s new initia­
tives, and she laughed in surprise. “Theta?” she nearly 
yelled, incredulously. She began describing the “old 
Theta” she’d witnessed at Yale: the huge group of 
mostly white wealthy women who were exclusive in 


--- Page 27 ---

 27
their friendships.

Almost every Theta member I talked to wanted to 
show me a picture of the new rush class. Like new 
parents, they proudly scrolled through their Facebook 
accounts and iPhone camera rolls. The diversity shows, 
they say.

It was not my first time seeing numerous photos of 
sorority women. Like most Yalies with a Facebook, I’d 
been privy to the several-hundred-photo filled albums 
Yale sororities upload after mixers.

“We’re notorious for our love of photos,” Olivia had 
said to me. She had also said that she felt the photos 
from sorority mixers often used lighting effects to make 
the women look more tan, thus washing out the sis­
ters of color.  According to Olivia, amid the glamorous 
flashing lights, she and the “handful” of Black mem­
bers had been erased. After our call, I revisited old pho­
tos of Theta and Pi Phi mixers from Facebook. I could 
see what she was talking about.

In the photos I was shown on Theta iPhones, this 
was not the case. The glossy veneer was gone, replaced 
by an occasional awkward Instagram filter. While the 
women weren’t all white, the racial diversity did not 
strike me as exceptional. Then again, I wasn’t shown a 
before and after picture.

It struck me that all the photos still depicted a select 
group. Even with slight improvements from Theta, Pi 
Phi, or other sororities at Yale and elsewhere, organi­
zations such as Greek groups still operate on a foun­
dation of exclusivity. While that tradition was born as 
a response to a more stark set of boundaries—one that 
blocked women from mostly male, already elite insti­
tutions—it now runs into problems of opening itself up 
to groups even more historically excluded. There’s no 
question that sororities are changing. The question is 
how much spaces like these can push against boundar­
ies they had a hand in creating.

As I looked at more photos, a before and after did 
begin to form in my head. Before were the near-pro­
fessional photos from events like the ones Olivia 
attended, and after were the more casual iPhone snaps 
which were shown to me as tokens of success. The 
Theta members who brandished them seemed to be 
almost urging me to notice the women of color. From 
background to foreground, I wondered how much had 
changed. 


— Fiona Lowenstein 
graduated in 2016.



**LUBBERT DAS**
**Author: Elias Bartholomew**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The doctor is bent at the waist, working furiously,
his instruments plotted around him
like counting-houses in the town square.
The patients wait while a flower unfolds
from his open head. Soon, the doctor will break for a light lunch.

Outside, the freeway is under close scrutiny,
the birds floating so peacefully
they might be drones.
They pass through arches inscribed
with the compact names of the sane.
Even the serifs look muscular.
I feel like I have a kitchen funnel on my head!
and its end opens up to heaven.



**In the Lateness of the World**
**Author: Carolyn Forché**
**Page number(s): 29**

Carolyn Forché
poet and human rights advocate
In the Lateness of the World
thursday, september 22 · 5:30 pm
Marquand Chapel (409 Prospect St.)
Yale Literature & Spirituality Series
Book-signing follows · Presented with Yale Divinity Student Book Supply
yale institute of sacred music presents
Both events are free; no tickets required.  ism.yale.edu
Yale Schola Cantorum
Masaaki Suzuki, conductor
Mourning in Dresden
Music of Bach and more
saturday, october 8 · 4 pm
Battell Chapel (400 College St.)



**MADE HERE**
**Author: Matt Klineman**
**Page number(s): 30**

Matthew Freiner sits in his makeshift office on the sec­
ond floor of the Devil’s Gear Bike Shop on Orange Street, 
leaning back in his folding chair. His desk is piled with 
random notes, and an array of cycling suits is tacked to 
the wall. Since 2001, he has designed and printed his own 
t-shirts and stickers, in addition to fixing bikes and selling 
gear. Matt Freiner loves making things, but making them 
in New Haven, he says, is especially rewarding.
“Ugh, God. It’s colossal,” he says said. “I mean, New 
Haven’s the home of the bicycle.”  
The Elm City claims to be the birthplace of a lot of 
things: the Frisbee, the hamburger, and planned cit­
ies, to name a few. (Technically, the bicycle’s city of 
origin is disputed: A German aristocrat invented the 
first human-powered, bike-like machine in 1813, but 
pedals weren’t added until a French immigrant to New 
Haven patented the design for use in “improvements 
of velocipedes” in 1866. Freiner never mentioned the 
German model.)
Outside, pasted next to the large orange Devil’s Bike 
logo and some sale notices is a sign printed in black 
and gold, featuring a large box with the words “Made 
in New Haven” and “Est. 1638” printed in simple let­
tering. 
Devil’s Gear received its sign last month, joining the 
ranks of New Haven stores that have been granted the 
designation as a part of the city-wide “Made in New 
Haven” campaign. The New Haven Office of Eco­
nomic Development and Project Storefronts, a city 
program that encourages entrepreneurship, started the 
initiative this summer and awarded the distinctive logo 
to New Haven stores that sell products manufactured 
in the city. The project aims to create a directory of 
small businesses that New Haven residents and visitors 
can use to shop locally, uniting the small bike-fixers, 
jewelry designers, and cheese mongers, and highlight­
ing stores that aren’t just selling things in New Haven, 
but making them here too. 
New Haven has been making things for a while. 
The city witnessed nearly two hundred years of indus­
trial prosperity, starting in 1798 when Eli Whitney, 
the inventor of the cotton gin and promoter of inter­
changeable parts, opened up the rifle factory where 
Samuel Colt would eventually later invent the auto­
matic revolver. By the time the smoke cleared from the 
American Civil War, New Haven was humming with 
activity. Through Throughout the late Nineteenth 
nineteenth century, thousands of Southern European 
immigrants were arriving arrived each year (see: New 
Haven’s famous pizza tradition) to produce not only 
rifles, but also brass hardware for Sargent, cigars for 
Osterweis & Sons, and the nation’s first lollipops for 
the Bradley Smith Company. During World War Two, 
the city supported the nation’s “Arsenal of Democracy” 
by housing factories founded by the legendary arms 
manufacturers O.F. Mossberg and Oliver Winchester.
Matthew Freiner of 
Devil’s Gear Bike Shop. 
Photo by Jennifer Lu.



**Title: Made in New Haven**
**Author: Matt Klineman**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
SEPTEMBER 2016
 31
Though New Haven experienced growth during the 
war, by the nineteen-fifties, urban decline set in as res­
idents flocked to the suburbs and factory after factory 
shut its doors. In 2006, the Winchester Repeating Arms 
Factory was one of the last of the factories to shut down 
its giant assembly lines. The plant had once employed 
upwards of fifteen thousand people; its closing marked 
the end of an industrial era.

The “Made in New Haven” campaign aims to high­
light the small businesses that have emerged in the 
wake of the city’s industrial collapse. But the partici­
pants consist of include t-shirt printers, independent 
video game designers, and restaurateurs—small shops 
standing that stand in stark contrast to the huge employ­
ers that sustained New Haven’s economy for much of 
the twentieth century. Those factories provided jobs, 
supported families, and fostered a community identity 
for the city. Should we be expecting tangible economic 
results from a campaign centered around boutique 
businesses? Does New Haven need a government-sanc­
tioned sticker to reaffirm its local identity?

—
Mark Sincavage, one of the family members who 
co-owns Skappo Restaurant and Skappo Merkato, is 
selling a line of sandwich spreads in Big Y supermar­
kets with the “Made in New Haven” logo attached. He 
stands behind the spread counter proudly wearing the 
family polo shirt, waving often at friends and commu­
nity members out the window.  His father is from New 
Haven originally, and his grandfather had a small gro­
cery store on Dwight Street in the early seventies.
“You know, it’s not just Brooklyn that’s the only 
neighborhood that’s creating interesting products,” he 
says. “[In New Haven], you meet the people that are 
working on it, that are getting their hands dirty, that 
are creating, that are networking. I think it could work 
inside out: Like let’s establish ourselves first, let’s create 
a bond and community of people.”

For Sincavage, “Made in America” is simply too big.  
Big corporations can claim they are “Made in Amer­
ica,” appealing to shoppers’ patriotic sensibilities while 
concealing the fact that the label could mean “made 
two thousand miles away.” Being made in New Haven 
means being made by “small people, by small busi­
nesses.”  

Of course, a small business like Skappo doesn’t have 
the capacity to employ thousands of people or sustain 
a whole city’s economy as the Winchester Repeating 
Arms Factory once did. Skappo has just three employ­
ees, and the “Made in New Haven” list features very 
few such industrial production centers. Fiber optics 
manufacturer Radiall and aerospace contractor Space-
Craft were included in the launch only as advisors, not 
participants, and the pharmaceutical company Alex­
ion, which moved to New Haven last year and brought 
with it twelve hundred new jobs, was not listed. 

“Made in New Haven,” though, is neither equipped 
nor intended to fill this economic hole; instead, it’s 
using the language of production to rekindle a sense 
of former glory. For Sincavage, it seems to be the 
small-business owner’s anthem: the launching of com­
munity, perhaps even an attempt to escape New Hav­
en’s past problems through enterprise and sweat.

When the city announced the “Made in New 
Haven” campaign this May, the program was only 
thinly defined. It featured online promotions for busi­
nesses, community networking, and a newly designed 
logo for product packaging, but it was unclear if the 
city had any concrete goals beyond boosting spirit. 
Fashion designer, business owner, and “Made in New 
Haven” participant Neville Wisdom displays the logo 
in his shop window, but he says that besides the sticker, 
the campaign organizers haven’t yet “talked [with him] 
about anything specific in terms of a collaboration.”  
The campaign’s graphic designer Kelly Bigelow Bec­
erra told the New Haven Independent that she drew 
inspiration for the logo from New Haven’s own design 
history, choosing a border that once lined the 1845 
Postmaster’s Provisional stamps. The botanical look—
two Elm trees standing on opposite, shrubby shores, 
with running water in between—is meant to market 
New Haven as a “place where innovators come to be 
mindful.”

But this tranquil scene does not carry the feeling of 
other origin labels, like the iconic “Made in the U.S.A.” 
mark, which seems to radiate pride through its patriotic 
stripes. The “Made in New Haven” sticker lacks any 
real indication of New Haven’s economic history or 
potential. The city just looks calm.

Matthew Nemerson, the city’s Economic Develop­
ment Administrator and a key player in economic strat­
egies like the “Made in New Haven” campaign, doesn’t 
envision the project changing New Haven’s economy 
drastically, but rather increasing city morale. At the 
very least, he told me, it couldn’t hurt.
“People forget history and don’t have a good sense of 
the past,” he says. “It would surprise people today, but at 
the World Columbian Expo in Chicago [in 1893], we 
had one of the largest displays. What other city would 
have won the prize for best hardware, best horse drawn 
carriage, best rifle innovation?” Those prizes, though, 
aren’t attached to New Haven’s name New Haven like 
automobiles are to Detroit. 

Elinor Slomba, a New Haven entrepreneur, sees 
“Made in New Haven” less as a way to bolster big com­
panies or famed products and more as a way to export 
“a perception of New Haven as a place where creative 
people can be supported and can realize their ideas.” 
Slomba is the founder and CEO of Art Interstices, a 
company that creates opportunities to unite creative 
arts and entrepreneurs, and is the current head of 
Project Storefronts.  The campaign is partially piggy­
backing off of the success of Project Storefronts’ 2009 
program to fill vacant commercial space, or even spe­
cial sections of occupied space, with pop-up concepts 
that are usually artistically inspired. To that end, the 
“Made” “Made in New Haven” campaign also includes 
producers of digital design and media goods as well as 
physical products. 

Nemerson doesn’t care what it the goal is as long as it 
boosts prosperity within the city. In the late nineteenth 
and early-to-mid twentieth century, “New Haven had 
agents in Europe—Italy, Germany—literally signing 
people up, bringing people, whole families, to a manu­
facturing center of the world,” he says. “We can’t recre­
ate that, but we can recreate the ideal. It shouldn’t be 
surprising that people would move their business here, 
that we would make something.”  

A company that exemplifies Nemerson’s ideal—a 
company that makes something on a relatively large 
scale with world renown—is Vespoli, a producer of 
crew racing shells. With roughly forty employees, the 
company produces between three hundred and three 
hundred sixty 360 boats per year, selling them all over 
the country and internationally, as far away as Japan, 
for anywhere from eight thousand to forty thousand 
dollars per boat. 

Dave Trond, Vice President of Sales for Vespoli, 
described that the sense of community that New Haven 
businesses provide (“if we need a new roof, a Connecti­
cut company does it for us”), but also the sense of pride 
in holding out as a “last stronghold” of the heavier 
manufacturing of the city’s past. Vespoli has long been 
a subscriber to the “Made in America” movement, and 
their boats will now feature a “Made in New Haven” 
sticker prominently alongside the older seal.

Founded in Hamden in 1980 before moving to New 
Haven in 1987, Vespoli has seen a lot of changes in 
the Elm City. Trond himself arrived about twenty-five 
years ago, after growing up in Pennsylvania and coach­
ing crew at the University of Massachusetts, though he 
“never thought [he’d] move to New Haven in a million 
years.”  

Today, he is even more impressed with the city’s cos­
mopolitan spirit and its reputation as the new “restau­
rant destination of New England.” This is good because, 
as Trond pointed out, Vespoli probably couldn’t leave 
even if it wanted to. When we spoke in June, the com­
pany was only about a week removed from its first anni­
versary of transitioning into an employee-owned com­
pany.  And with all of its new shareholders—employees 
and their families living in and around New Haven—
Vespoli has intertwined itself within the fabric of the 
city, fully tied to its economy. 

According to Sincavage, the co-owner of Skappo, 
there is a poem by Saint Francis that reads something 
along the lines of “No man can escape the inevitability 
of death.” Maybe the same applies here. “Made in New 
Haven” isn’t an antithesis to “Made in the USA” but 
rather an expression of the post-industrial city, reborn: 
We are still here, and, like our grandfathers before us, 
we are still building things. Not necessarily things of 
steel, but of community, of originality, and always with 
our hands.  

— Matt Klineman is a sophomore
in Berkeley College.
Matthew Nemerson, New Haven’s 
Economic Development Administator.
Photo Jennifer Lu.


**Title: Snack to the Future: Thirty days of liquid calories**
**Author: Harry Gray**
**Page number(s): 33**

 33
I began consuming Soylent 2.0 this April, three 
months after I learned about it online. Soylent 2.0 is a 
meal replacement beverage created by Rob Rhinehart, 
who marketed his product in 2013 by eating nothing but 
Soylent for 30 days and blogging about the experience. 
The idea of a liquid diet fascinated me. It was almost 
unbelievable that Soylent had all the nutrients my body 
needed. I’d be able to throw a few bottles in my backpack 
and forget about the dining halls. I would have more time 
to sleep and do homework. If I liked Soylent, I thought, 
living off campus next year would be a breeze, since 
I wouldn’t have to worry about cooking or shopping for 
food. 	

Even so, the name Soylent didn’t sit quite right with 
me. Hearing it, all I could think of was the famous line 
in the 1973 sci-fi film Soylent Green: “Soylent Green is 
people!” Detective Thorne, the film’s hero, screams the 
words as he discovers a secret that the Soylent Corpo­
ration doesn’t want the world to know: Soylent Green, 
the food substitute that most of New York City’s resi­
dents rely on for their survival, is made out of human 
beings. Why would Rhinehart name his meal replace­
ment Soylent?

Rhinehart’s Soylent isn’t made from people—ingre­
dients include filtered water, maltodextrin, soy protein 
isolate, high oleic algal oil, isomaltulose, canola oil, 
rice starch, oat fiber, isomaltooligosaccharide, and soy 
lecithin. The macronutrient ratio is 33:47:20, which 
means 33 percent of calories come from carbohydrates, 47 percent from lipids, and 20 percent from proteins. 
There are four Soylent products on the market: Soylent 
1.6, a powder; Soylent 2.0, a bottled drink; Coffeeist, a 
caffeinated Soylent 2.0; and Soylent Bar, a snack bar 
with a salted caramel flavor. The sleek white bottle of 
Soylent 2.0 has a black cap and displays two pieces of 
information in black, sans-serif font: soylent. 400 kcal. 
Assuming you’re a normal American, you need 2,000 
daily kcal, which means all you need to do to keep 
typing lines of code 24/7/365 is drink five bottles of 
Soylent 2.0 each day. 

I decided to ignore my concerns and judge the drink 
itself. At the time I was taking a class on sustainable 
food and agriculture, and for my final project, the Yale 
Sustainable Food Program granted me $400 to pur­
chase all the bottles I needed to survive for thirty days. 
To test Rhinehart’s claim that Soylent is nutritionally 
complete, my diet was 100 percent liquid Soylent, 0 
percent chewable. There were concessions I wasn’t 
willing to make for the duration, like giving up cof­
fee and staying completely away from the dining hall. 
Once a day or so I sipped burnt black coffee as my 
friends sated their appetites with chicken tenders and 
hard-boiled eggs. But for the most part, I took meals 
alone, in my dorm room and during breaks between 
classes.

As I grew accustomed to the tan, thick, and bland 
liquid, which conceals its true textural nature—sandpa­
per—until it reaches the esophagus, I was increasingly



**Title: A Thirty-Day Soylent Experiment**
**Author: Harry Gray**
**Page number(s): 34**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I drank Soylent for thirty days. I was completely disinterested in consuming it. I lost thirteen pounds. 
I didn’t ever feel very hungry or very tired. Instead I 
had a consistent hum of energy from half past nine to 
just after midnight. I had ample time for classwork. 
I recorded my “average mood” each day, which was 
usually slightly negative or neutral. When I decided to 
free-associate with the word Soylent on day six, I wrote 
down control, serialization, and crazy. On day thirteen 
I wrote down diarrhea. In my Excel spreadsheet I cre­
ated a column for writing down other notes, and the 
most common word in that column was alone. The sec­
ond most common word was frustration.

Four bottles a day—10:30 am, 1:30 pm, 4:30 pm, 
and 7:30 pm—was my rhythm. It was four-on-the-floor 
energy, no more and no less than what I needed. I like 
to make electronic music, and without explicit inten­
tion everything I made while on Soylent was around 
one hundred beats per minute with a kick drum on 
quarter notes, the sort of commercial groove that leaves 
you longing for something with soul.

At 1:30 pm, truly on the dot—I remember check­
ing the time on my iPhone—while walking back from 
a logic class, I slipped on early spring ice outside the 
C.E.I.D. Perfectly on schedule, I had an open, chilled 
bottle of my chalky Soylent in hand, which I was sip­
ping slowly. I must have spilled 40 calories or so, and I 
remember thinking I had made an irrevocable mistake. 
My mind shot straight to the boxes of Soylent in my 
dorm room, to the fear of being hungry right around 
11:30 pm that night, to the questions of whether, now 
40 kcal short of my thirty-day caloric need calcula­
tion—two thousand per day times thirty—I would 
be slightly undernourished, and whether I was doing 
myself psychological harm by experimenting with this 
crazy liquid food. To my horror, I made eye contact 
with a student walking the other way on my right. She 
glanced in disgust at the slimy gray puddle I had cre­
ated. This happened on day seven, April 4.

In my journal I often wrote that relationships with 
my friends were beginning to frustrate me. During 
that month, I thought it was because I had time away 
from the dining halls to lie on my navy blue duvet, 
look through my ceiling’s dusty skylight-on-a-slant, and 
think clearly about Big Questions. I spent hours and 
hours in that position, ignoring text messages, feel­
ing anonymous, turning food cravings into nagging 
self-doubt. Pre-April I was spending that time in din­
ing halls, laughing over chicken nuggets and Brussels 
sprouts with the very friends I would soon complain 
about in April’s journal entries.

But there is a better explanation. Soylent came up in 
conversation time and time again: what it tasted like, 
whether it was a life hack, how my digestion was. Those 
conversations, the brief kind you have with more casual 
friends, got old for me and my closer friends. “Let me 
guess—you’re talking about Soylent again,” was the 
biting remark that reminded me not to talk about my 
experience, my foray into the so-called future of food, 
too dull to dwell on. Someone in particular said that 
to me a few times, granted, but routinely I said it to 
myself. 

Soylent 2.0, the latest and greatest, is ideology. Sub­
sume the urge to eat and the joy of sharing a meal 
under obstacles to productivity. Stamp out the tiresome 
clatter of cooking from your busy and important life. 
Free yourself to do the things that actually matter faster 
and better than ever before. But do always remember: 
your productivity is an end in and of itself. You will get 
very hungry indeed if you notice that you’re all alone 
and you forget why you’re in such a rush. The black-
and-white, less-is-more of Soylent offers no answer to 
that question. It won’t engage you in dialogue, the way 
the friends you used to eat with did. Sure, Soylent 2.0 
is no Soylent Green. It isn’t made out of human beings. 
But it has a different secret. It will control you. It will 
empty you. And it will isolate you, too. I lived on it for a 
month of my life, sipping, digesting, and ridding myself 
of the very life forces that food should sustain.
— Harry Gray is junior in Branford 
College. He is a copy editor for 
The New Journal.


**Title: Yale University Judaic Studies Fall 2016 Course Offerings**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 35**

YALE UNIVERSITY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                        
                                            JUDAIC STUDIES Fall 2016 Course Offerings 
 
FRESHMAN SEMINAR 
RLST 012 Divine Law in Historical Perspective, Hayes, Christine 9-10:15am MW 
 
BIBLICAL 
JDST 110 The Bible, Hayes, Christine 11:25:12:50pm MW 
 
ANCIENT 
JDST 230 Law & Narrative, Gender & Sex, Bickart, Noah 3:30-5:20 Th 
JDST 391 The Midrash Seminar:  The Revelation at Sinai, Fraade, Steven 9:25-11:15am R 
JDST 392 Mishnah Seminar: Tractate RoshHaShanah, Fraade, Steven 9:25-11:15am W 
 
MEDIEVAL & EARLY MODERN 
JDST 200 History of Jews to Early Modern Times, Marcus, Ivan 11:25-12:50pm TR 
JDST 260 Jewish Biblical Commentaries, Breuer, Edward 1:30-3:20pm W 
JDST 261 Jews at the Origins of Islam, Yadgar, Liran 9:25-11:15am T 
JDST 270 Medieval Jews, Muslims, and Christians in Conversation, Marcus, Ivan 9:25-11:15 R 
JDST335 Jewish Philosophy, Franks, Paul 9.25-11.15 Th 
 
MODERN 
JDST 216 Intersubjectivity and Dialogue, Angermann, Asaf 1:30-3:20pm R 
JDST 332 Zionism, Stern, Elli 10:30-11:20am MW 
JDST 336 The Culture of Acculturation, Sorkin, David 1:30-3:20pm T 
JDST 340 Political History European Jewry 1589-1897 Sorkin, David 2.30-3.20 MW 
JDST 349 Ethnicity, Religion and Nationality, Hever, Hannan & Stern, Elli 
3:30-5:20pm W 
 
LANGUAGE & LITERATURE 
HEBR 110 Elementary Modern Hebrew, Dina Roginsky 9:25–10:20 or 10:30–11:20 MTWTHF 
HEBR 130 Intermediate Modern Hebrew, Shiri Goren and Orit Yeret 
MW 1-2:15, Orit Yeret, TTH 2:30–3:45, Shiri Goren 
HEBR 150/JDST 213 Advanced Modern Hebrew: Daily Life in Israel, Orit Yeret 9:00-10:15 WF 
HEBR 158/JDST305 Contemporary Israeli Society in Film, Shiri Goren 11:35-12:50 T Th 
 HEBR 160/JDST 360 Hebrew in a Changing World, Dina Roginsky 1:00-2:15 T Th 
JDST 339 Politics in Modern Hebrew Literature, Hever, Hannan 3:30-5:20pm T 
JDST 416 Reading Yiddish, Price, Joshua 1:30-3:20pm Th 
 
_____________________________________________________________ 
 
 
Program in Judaic Studies 
Yale University 
451 College St., Rm. 301 
New Haven, CT 06511 
Tel – (203)432-0843,  Fax – (203)432-4889 
www.judaicstudies.yale.edu 
Please note that information on courses, including meeting days and times, is subject to revision. 
Students should check the printed YCPS and especially the on-line course information for the 
fullest and most accurate information 


**Title: Wyndham Campbell Prizes Festival 2016**
**Page number(s): 36**

 36
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
W I N D H A M  C A M P B E L L  P R I Z E S
Festival 
2016
YA LE  UNIV ERSIT Y SEP TEMBER  19 –21
FULL  C A LENDA R O F  E VENT S  AVAIL A BLE AT  
WINDH A M C A MPBELL .O RG
A LL  E V ENT S FREE A ND O PEN  TO  THE PUBLIC
On Becoming a Writer, 
and Other Tales  
of Self-Invention
Prize director Michael Kelleher talks with Hilton Als, Tessa Hadley, and 
Helen Garner about how and when and why they started writing,  
and the greatest challenges they faced in forging their identities as writers.
TUE SDAY, SEP TEMBER  20,  6:0 0  PM
THE  GR A DUATE  A ND PRO FE S SIO N A L S CH O O L  
CLUB AT  YA LE  (GP S CY ),  20 4  YO RK  S TREE T
Co-sponsor: South Asian Studies Council, the Film and Media Studies Program,  
the Film Study Center, and the Whitney Humanities Center.
Hilton Als
Tessa Hadley
Helen Garner
PHOTO OF HILTON ALS BY BRIGITTE LACOMBE

