Publication date: 11/05
Volume 38, Issue 3

**Title: November 22, [Oof!] Be it Resolved**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
November 22, [Oof!] Be it Resolved that the Undergraduate Council allocate $1600 for celebratory t-shirts; and Be it Resolved that the Campus Life Committee be charged . with deciding upon an appropriately pompous design for . this shirts [sic], demonstrating our superior senses of humor ... " The resolution passed the executive board with unanimous huzzahs, as it does every year. Indeed, the usual Harvard shirts are pompous: most say something along the lines of "Yale: Harvard's Safety School" or "Yale: Harvard fot Dummies." 
But "Refining the Rivalry," a piece printed in The Harvard Crimson, took issue with those shirts that purported to demonstrate ''superior senses of humor." This shirt is Yale~ bestseller.

The article's author enlisted Ms. Mannersmith, an etiquette expert, to evaluate proper game attire. "The idea is to cheer and have spir-it for your team without being nasty," Ms. Mannersmith said, warning Cantabs of the "fine line between displaying school spirit and talking trash."


Chris ''Gritz" Schonberger manages Cock Tees Productions, an underground Harvard startup that would certainly disagree with Mannersmith's gentle nay-saying. "Good tees are usually inappropri-ate or. offensive," Gritz wrote in an email. "That 'safety school' shit is tired. That's why we're going for the black tee look this year, a more thuggish spin on the general Game tee." 
The Cock Tees design Schonberger praises is based on the 2004 debut album cover of rapper The Game, and was produced in secret in Schonberger's common room using iron-on transfers. The boys will have to sell them on the black market. To hawk a shirt sporting the university name at Harvard, one must be part of a regulated student group and cough up 7.5 percent of profits in royal-ties to the Harvard Copyright Office. "Or your tees ~ill be seized," wrote a , addened Schonberger, "like so many pounds of cocaine." 

So what about Harvard Tees that mock the Yale name? Do they have to pay to use our fancy four letters? "There's a sort of informal agreement with Harvard between our licensing offices," said Denise Castallano, Yale's Licensing program Coordinator. "If Harvard sees something with our name on it they tell us. It's common courtesy." 
A dirty blonde who spends her days in a basement office where stacks of solicitations requesting use of the University's logos stretch ceiling-ward, Castellano doesn't have a lot of time for t-shirts. And anyway, Yale students need not worry about licensing rights: For "internal use" there's no price. But students are expected to uphold the alma mater, and never to produce vulgar designs. Castellano prefers this year's official design at Barnes & Noble, in which the two teams' helmets angle toward each other in a typical face-off pose. "That was nice," Castellano said of the shirt. "I don't approve of anything thaes offensive. Though a lot of people go ahead and do things."


Yale student designs have been more "appropriately pompous" than the official bookstore's running the gamut from the classic "Fuck Harvard" to the crass "Fuck Harvard?". For the discrete consumer (perhaps the mother whose children are just learning how to spell) there's ccHuck Farvard." (And Harvard's got its own ccYuck Fale.") 
Then there's the most popular design, which appears to be a column of blocky nonsense letters until the fabric is folded like a Mad Magazine back-page or an elegant window-dressing to reveal the hidden phrase: "Puck Harvard." "It's our best seller," said Ken, who requested a pseudonym. Throughout the fecund week of November, he'd sold the shirt in Commons — "hopefully make some money," this semester's society. Flashy and ubiquitous, the design called to arms a November 2001 Yale Record satire: "What if we made this t-shirt that said 'Fuck Harvard.' And then when you folded it together it said 'Puck Harvard.' Again. And if you folded it up again, it said 'Puck Harvard' again and so on?" 

And so on. And so forth. For the past 25 years, the screenprint and design division of Broadway's Campus Customs Clothing Co., Inc. has captained the bulk of Yale's design orders. Wiry manager Barry Cobden doesn't see the scrimmage for a winning shirt as anything new: "I wouldn't be surprised if at the first game played, somehow someone wasn't wearing something in the spirit of the game." Today the store offers the "thinkingman's version of a Harvard-Yale shirt" in the front window (a heather gray short-sleeve imprinted with the rhetorical "Harvard does what?" and a corresponding lollipop.) However, most November 2005 students opt for the store's design-your-own-shirt service. "Sure, they go too far sometimes," .Cobden says, speaking of more vulgar designs. "This is the type of shirt I'd recommend," he says, pointing to a conservative tee imprinted with "The Game, 2005" in a stiff serif font. "For someone who keeps chronological order of all their t-shirts, this is the one you pull out to show someone in one hundred years and say, 'This is one hundred years old.'... The other ones are fun," Cobden admits—,"but only for the moment."


Those "other ones" are printed by frats, sports teams, and student  publications who proudly proclaim with each design that they're pretty sure they won't be alive to see the 2105 kickoff. Arguably (depending on your levels of joie-de-vivre and poo-poo humor) Rumpus puts out the strongest shirt each year and keeps their design a surprise until a much anticipated unveiling. How do they do it? "Rumpus does not vote," wrote Editor-in-Chief Lacy Gattis, in an email, "It would be anathema to our artistic goals and hurts our arms.''


In the retread of forty years of tee designs, Rumpus' goal at their annual tee design debate is to "provide a visual gag more clever and more timely than a bulldog humping a Cantab," Gattis wrote. Though that design "sold like hot-cakes" according to this year's designer, Mike Dunham, "we can usually come up with better ideas than that." A problem, perhaps, was the 2002 Harvard response to the Cantab "rape" shirt. A year after the bulldog anally raped the pilgrim, Harvard now put out a shirt that showed a Cantab sitting pretty while a bulldog, crouched on the ground before his master, performed fellatio. Rumpus let the track grass over and the next year came out with a tee that was either too highbrow or too lowbrow to sell well: "Ve-ri-tas My Salad," the shirt read. "The problem was people either didn't know what the phrase 'toss my salad' meant or thought it was so gross they refused to wear it," said Rumpus