Publication date: February 9, 2001
Volume: 33
Issue number: 4


**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Shruti Adhar
- Editor-in-Chief: Alan Schomfild
- Managing Editors: Jessica Bulman, Anya Katz
- Designer: Tatiana Jitkoff
- Production Manager: Judy Miller
- Business Manager: Silpa Prachya
- Photography Editor: Whitney Grace
- Associate Editor: Ronen Givony
- Research Director: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan
- Circulation and Subscriptions Manager: Makiko Harunari, Blake Wilson
- Staff: Jacob Blecher, Alexander Dworkowitz, Sara Hirschhorn, Carl Hungerford, Sydney Leverenz, Patrick Casey Pitts, Don Tontiplaphol, Matthew Underwood
- Alumni and Directors: Peter B. Cooper, Michael Gerber, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Advisors: Richard Blow, Jay Carney, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Lauren Rabin, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Steve Ballou, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blake Bennett, Edward B. Bennett, Jr., Edward B. Bennett III, Paul S. Bennett, Judd Bruck, Barbato Burd, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Davis, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Elisha Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Andy Cohn, Jury and Rae Court, Mimi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Amaro Gandal, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Tom Griggs, Stephen Hallman, Jane Kaminsky, Brooks Kelley, Roger Kirkwood, J. Kuznets, Jr., Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Hank Manbock, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neill, Howard H. Newman, Sean O'Brien, Julie Penn, Lewis and Joan Plan, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randol,  Roland Rigg, Mark Rinella, Nicholas X. Rizopoulos, Steven Rolicer, Arlene and Arthur Sager, Dick and Debbie Sears, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Elizabeth and William Sledge, Thomas Strong, Elizabeth Tart, Alan and Betty Torda, Melinda Turner, Allen and Sarah Wudd, Daniel Yergin and Angela Street Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
FEATURES
8 Risky Business - Anya Kamenetz
12 Trading Places - Michael Gerber
16 Tears of the Sun - Victoria Lyall
20 Invisible Men - Daniel Kurtz-Phelan
26 OK Computer - Ronen Givony
STANDARDS
4 Points of Departure
32 Essay: I Want My CfV - Patrick Casey Pitts
Sidebar: Interview with the Vampire - Clinton Carroll
36 The Critical Angle: The Agony and the Ecstasy - Jessica Bulman
40 Endnote: Shock the Monkey - Tatiana Jitkoff


**Title: Risky Business**
**Author: Anya Kamenetz**
**Page number(s): 8**


The non-starters of Yale startups.


**Title: Trading Places**
**Author: Michael Gerber**
**Page number(s): 12**


Who's the real outsider in New Haven's mayoral race?


**Title: Tears of the Sun**
**Author: Victoria Lyall**
**Page number(s): 16**


Photos by Whitney Grace



**Title: Invisible Men**
**Author: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 20**


Minutes from Yale lives an underground community of illegal immigrants.


**Title: OK Computer**
**Author: Ronen Givony**
**Page number(s): 26**


How Yale jumped on the high tech train with Project X


**Title: Essay: I Want My CfV**
**Author: Patrick Casey Pitts**
**Page number(s): 32**



**Title: Sidebar: Interview with the Vampire**
**Author: Clinton Carroll**



**Title: The Critical Angle: The Agony and the Ecstasy**
**Author: Jessica Bulman**
**Page number(s): 36**


reviewing Lying Awake, Mark Salzman


**Title: Endnote: Shock the Monkey**
**Author: Tatiana Jitkoff**
**Page number(s): 40**



**Title: Pool Ties**
**Author: Jacob Blechu**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Pool Ties 
ON jANUARY 13, Jeff Jannuzzo-25-year 
member and self-professed lover of New 
York's Yale Club "in all her diversity"-
threarened litigation against that venerated 
institution. Citing New York Nor-for-
Profit Corporation Law Section 621, he 
called for Club President Peter Wells to 
provide him with a list of rhe Club's voting 
members within five days. "The lisr is 
demanded," wrote Jannuzzo, "for an object 
relating to the business of rhe Club, name-
ly ro communicate with the members as to 
whether there shall be any changes to the 
Club's fifth floor swimming pool." Failure 
ro deliver the list, he wrote, could send the 
issue ro the Stare Supreme Court. 

The trouble began last summer. In 
mid-July, the Yale Club Council distrib-
uted surveys to members to determine the 
popularity of certain facilities. The Club's 
petite, 85-year-old swimming pool-maxi-
mum occupancy, three lane swimmers, and 
monthly usage, 30o-was among the facil-
ities in question. Its inclusion raised some 
eyebrows among a contingent of 50 or so 
swimmers in the Club, Jannuzzo included, 
who instantly began to suspect foul play. 
"We began exchanging letters and e-mails 
with people in rhe Club governance," 
Jannuzzo explained over the phone, "to say, 
like, 'What is going on and can you assure 
us that you're not going ro be closing this 
place?' and not getting satisfactory 
answers." The pool, with its handmade 
mosaic tiles, solid brass railings, and three 
lion's head fountains (allegedly the work of 
a foundry used by sculptor Henry Moore), 
appeals to many swimmers because of its 
old-fashioned feel. The pool's rumored 
"Roman bath" tradition of harbouring 
nude and inebriated swimmers in the old 
days may also provide some nostalgic 
charm. 

After questioning some members of 
the Club's Athletic Committee in early fall, 
the swimmers received the bad news. The 
demolition of their prized pool, they 
learned, was being considered in a pro-
posed renovation and expansion of the 
women's locker room and the aerobic facil-
ities. So the swimmers began ro organize 
and agitate. "We used to go [to the pool] 
and hang out," said Jannuzzo, "and say, 
'Hey, did you hear they're thinking of clos-
ing the pool?"' One of the swimmers pro-
cured the e-mail address savethepool@aol. 
com, and then things began ro roll. A few of 
the pool activists contacted The New York 
Times-coincidentally, their employer-
which published a fluff piece about the 
pool on November 5· Before long, in what 
seemed ro resemble an authentic move-
ment, the group began meeting on 
Saturday nights to strategize. "The people 
in the elected officership part of the Club 
have really been, just, you know, amazed," 
said Jannuzzo, who became both the Save-
the-Pool group's chairman and secretary. 
"People have grumbled before about the 
way things have changed, but no one's 
accually organized." 

Then Jannuzzo's troops hit the front 
lines. Ar a January 13 meeting, they voted 
on a "two-prong plan of political action 
and diplomacy." While Jannuzzo sent his 
fiery missive to President Wells, demanding 
the names and addresses of the Club's vot-
ing members for a "Save the Pool" mailing 
drive, others pressed members of the 
Council by phone on how the Club 
planned to get members' comments prior 
ro construction. Meanwhile, certain mem-
bers had been hard at work creating 
www.savethepool.com, where one can peruse 
detailed minutes from the meetings, news 
from the front, heartbreaking quotations 
("Without the pool the athletic facilities 
will be like any others in town. I'll cancel 
my athletic membership in a heartbeat if 
this plan goes forward"), and even the 
instrumental New York Times article. 

Peter Wells has been a bit dumb-
founded. "One of the things that has char-
acterized this Save-the-Pool group is they 
like to make a lor of noise based on no 
facts," he explained. Vice President Tom 
Fiffer responded by e-mail to Jannuzzo's 
early demand letter, "I am frankly aston-
ished at the degree to which your commit-
tee is and has been relying on rumors-as 
opposed ro seeking our facts .... " (This is 
the same Tom Fiffer, by the way, who, in a 
prelude to the pool affair, last May tem-
porarily suspended Club member Tad l:.ow, 
co-creator ofVH1's Pop-Up Video, for hurl-
ing cauliflower florets and cheese cubes at 
the Whiffenpoofs during a concert.) Wells 
insists that the Council never planned to 
scrap the pool, but has merely tossed 
around the idea as one possibility for the 
summer renovations. The council is also 
considering demolishing one of the Club's 
four squash courts. "There is a small, dedi-
cated group of people that don't want that 
to happen," said Wells, "and we will hea~; 
from them as well." 

For Jannuzzo and his chums, there's 
much more at stake than an antique, 32-by-
18 foot pool. Many view the pool contro-
versy as just one symptom of the Yale 
Club's widespread decline inro kitsch and 
profitability. Along with the recent prolifer-
ation of "cheap Holiday Inn furnirure" in 
the lobby, according to activist Peter Rose, 
members 
watched 
the 
Club 
allow 
University of Virginia graduates to join in 
1996, following decisions many years ago £O 
welcome Dartmouth alumni and oKL 
brothers too. "(The Yale Club] is a place 
that we give a damn about," said Jannuzzo. 
"and that we want to make sure nobody 
tries to rurn into a place where they charge 
you for the towels and think of new ways to 
get your money, and come and go out of 
business with the whims of fashion and 
notions of what is cool." Some find the 
Club Council's increasing aloofness and' 
secrecy "fascistic." "I think this dub is 
experiencing a leadership problem at the 
moment," said Rose, who alleges that he's 
never been offered a chance to vote for a 
council member in his 25 years at the Club. 
"They've told employees not to talk about 
the pool-a lifeguard who works at the 
pool was reprimanded for tallcing to mem-
bers." 

Bur are the pool supporters of the 
NYC Yale Club really entitled ro the demo-
cratic process they seek? The Club, after alJ, 
is not only private, but also restricted ro 
those willing to shell out $1,500 a year, 
martinis not included. Jannuzzo and his 
marginalized swimmers srill seem co think 
they're owed some sort of voice. Peter Wells 
recently handed over the Club membership 
list, and the Save-the-Pool group plans to 
lobby for a general vote. Within those com-
fortable environs, a leather-armchair revo-
lution is brewing. 


**Title: Disgruntled**
**Author: Matthew Underwood**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Disgruntled 
WT MONTH-January 12 to be exact-1 
turned 20. It was the saddest birthday of 
my life. As I turned the key in box 200857 
in Yale Station Post Office, I imagined 
cakes and balJoons and cards stuffed far 
with cash tumbling out at my feet. 

Nothing. Not from Mom, not from 
Grandma, not from anyone. In disbelief, I 
Stretched my arm through the box. There 
must have been a mistake, I told mysel£ 
Somebody must love me. 
Perhaps my 
cards were in the box below. Dislocating 
my shoulder in the process, I reached 
200957. Nothing. I reached above, but 
still I found only the cold, gray steel of 
another box as empty as my own. Again I 
peered through, resigned and sad. To my 
surprise, I came face to f.ace with a man 
Who understood my pain. 

Larry (he requests that his real name 
not be used) looks like the stereotypical 
postal worker: nearing middle age, stocky, 
dressed in blue jeans and a sweatshirt. But 
Larry is something more: Beneath his 
Postman Joe fas:ade I found a civil servant 
dedicated to the proposition that all postal 
customers are created equal. He smoked a 
cigarette as he consoled me outside 
Lanman-Wright. "It's shame"fUJ," he says of 
the delays that plague Yale Station. 
"They're treating you like second-class citi-
uns. Something ought to be done. You 
see that poster over there, with the phone 
number on it?" He's posrered every kiosk 
on campus with the number of the New 
Haven Postmaster, hoping for students to 
lodge their complaints. "I know you guys 
have problems like this," he explains, allud-
ing to the common complaints from dis-
gruntled Yale Station customers about late-
ness, lost packages, and rude employees. 
"You ought to give that number a call." 

My sadness turned to ire. Ready to take a 
stand for my rights, I made the call. 

Lavinia, the clerk who answered, took 
my name and box number and said I'd be 
hearing from the postmaster shortly. 
When I persisted with my inquiries, she 
directed me to Christine Dugas, the Post 
Office's 
Communications 
Program 
Specialist 
for 
Public 
Affairs 
and 
Communications in the Northeast. 
I 
phoned her office in Providence, Rhode 
Island, but no one picked up. 

I returned to Yale Station, humming 
"Happy Birthday" to myself in languid, 
self-pitying strains. 
I found Larry, who 
once again buoyed my sagging spirits. It 
wasn't me, he promised. It was the system. 
I tried to tell him that the cards weren't ever 
going to come. He could see I was desper-
ate, and being a man of conviction he knew 
he'd have to prove his point. Punching the 
security code into the door, we made our 
way behind the boxes. All this was "ille-
gal," Larry explained, "but OK, cause you're 
with me." 

Packages in carrs and white plastic 
boxes filled with letters were stacked waist 
high, covering most of the floor. 
Still, 
something was missing: people. 
I was 


need. 

As of now, there are no 
plans to increase staffing at Yale 
Station." 

As Dinius sees it, the 
Office has a promise to 
fuf1iu. "We're in the service 
-
tea.._,. 
world, but we're unique 
~ 
01J1b& ~ 
because we're a service that 
,......._ _~OJ • 
touches you every day. 
.. .,.,... 
Somehow, in some way, we 
~~ : 
make contact, every single 
•.,u•my other human paaence wu the 
J)ay." A week passed before I 
voice of Ax1 Rose. tarry's c:ldiCieacc was 
b.t the lffength to once again look in my 
even lonelier than my own. "'Yeah, it's just 
box. 

I hesitated as I rurned the key. 
me back here in this section," he explains, 
peered inside to find a cornucopia ofbirth-
again expressing his disappointment at not 
day cheer: a yellow package slip and three 
living up to the Post Office's promises. 
different cards. Seeking out Larry to say 
"You kids deserve to get your mail on time. 
thanks, I found him wading through the 
But you know, ever since they've cut our 
growing pile of boxes. "These came in yes-
staff, we just can't do it. I'd say on average 
terday," he explains. "Maybe I'll get to 
I get to your box only three or four days 
them tomorrow. 
But I'm just one man 
out of the week." 

He points to the cards in my hands, all 
stamped a week before January 12. "See, I 
told you," he says, the power-to-the-people 
spirit still ringing in his voice. "The post-
mark never lies." 

back here. I can't hi~ every box every day." 

Larry directed me next to John 
Dinius, president of the local chapter of 
the Associated Postal Workers Union. He 
effused a patriotic vigor similar to Larry's 
own. "We're here to provide a universal ser-
vice to America," Dinius explained. "[Yale 
Station] is part of America, but you guys 
aren't being served." His explanation was 
simple: "The problems at Yale Station are 
due 100 percent to understaffing. At one 
time we had 18 people there. [Since 1993], 
our levels have dropped from 18 down to 15 
then to 13 and now to the present ten. It's 
like trying to move ten pounds of sand 
with two people instead of ten people. 
Until we have more bodies back there, 
there are going to be delays, plain and sim-
ple." 

When I finally reached Communica-
tions Program Specialist for Public Affairs 
and Communications Dugas, she took a 
different tone. The faceless bureaucrat in 
Providence, she had no sympathy for my 
lack of birthday joy. 
She corrected me 
when I spoke of delayed mail. 
"You're 
assuming delayed delivery to be a face," she 
said. "Our studies show that for the State 
of Connecticut and for New Haven and 
Yale Station in particular, we have an on-
time delivery rate of 95 percent, which is 
above our national goal of 93 percent." 
Dugas admitted that the Yale St2tion work-
force had been "streamlined" in the past; 
but, she explained, "We feel we are provid-
ing our customers with the services they 


**Title: Grumpy Old Men**
**Author: Sara Hinchoe**
**Page number(s): 6**

Grumpy Old Men 
At first glance, the 85-year-old members of 
the Oass of 1937 don't look like rabble-
rousers. Twenty-five years after their gradu-
ation, 88 percent were happily married, 85 
percent were regular churchgoers, and 71 
percent were registered Republicans; they 
believed in fighting for their country, own-
ing rwo cars, and the fact that they would 
be bald in ten years. By 1999, not much 
had changed. But in October of that year, 
the Class of 1937 took up arms against its 
alma mater. Why are these rebels not the 
peacefully retired grandfathers they seemed 
destined to become? 

The 
answer: 
"Phelpsgate." 
In 
September 1999, several hundred copies of 
Yale's conservative student publication 
Light & Truth were removed from freshman 
mailboxes. Playing off juicy allegations of 
illegal acts by Yale's freshman counselors 
and an administration cover-up, the name 
has stuck. As the furor died down and the 
administration rejected L&T s grievance 
petition, it soon seemed as if everyone had 
forgotten. However, "Pbdpsgate" had just 
begun to captivate the minds of the men of 
the Class of 1937. Sixty-rwo years away 
from Yale had done nothing to dampen 
their fervor or their memory. They were 
old, but not too old to take on the system. 

One 38-page report, a flurry of corre-
spondence, and a year and a half later, the 
Class of 1937 is still standing firm. 

Although some in their ranks are as tired of 
the issue as most students, others are sriU 
bandying about terms like "pc Police" and 
specularing about freshman counselor "spy 
networks" run out of Dean Trachtenberg's 
office. According to a former L&T staff 
member, the magazine and the alumni 
soon found a murually agreeable division 
of labor in the fight: "We [L&T] provided 
the informacion, and they fought the bat-
tles for us." Though unsuccessful in help-
ing the editors receive compensation for 
damages or having "formal sanctions" 
brought against the implicated freshman 
counselors and administ.ratots, the alumni 
still seem determined to fight to the death. 

The Class that Levin has called "Yale's most 
devoted" has filed a petition with the AYA 
and is calling for a review of the 
University's free speech regulations. 

"As members of the Class of 1937, we 
are old," said corresponding secretary John 
W. Field. "We believe in tradition and free-
dom ... [and] we love Yale." On the sur-
face, the Class of 1937 perceived a threat to 
intellecrual freedom on campus, especially 
for conservative views. However, their 
actions betray a deeper fear that, as the 
years go by, the administration is forgetting 
the Old Yale. The decline of conservative 
groups, which they see as one of the last 
bastions of this spirit on campus, is pacric-
ularly worrisome to men who may not be 
around to defend the Yale they love much 
longer. By not punishing those involved in 
confiscating L&T, it seemed as if 
University officials were not only attacking 
the rights of a conservative publication to 
challenge the administration, but the val-
ues and rights of her own alumni as well. 

"[W]e had a grand rime here together 
and we now march out and sit on the side-
lines and exercise our almost divine right to 
grumble at the changes that will doubtless 
begin the instant our backs are rumed: 
former Yale president James Rowland 
Angell wrote in the History of th~ C/as:s t/ 
I9JJ. "[O]r we might make the class of 193" 
completely immortal." 



**Title: As The Startups Shut Down, Yale's E-Men Head Back To School.**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I 
t's hard to believe, but an entire economic era has come and gone since I 
entered Yale in the fall of 1998. Sky-high technology stocks sent the Nasdaq up 
86 percent in 1999, its best year since its inception 29 years ago, and created a mood 
of unparalleled economic exuberance from Silicon Valley to Silicon Alley. In the 
process, a new American hero was born: the 22-year-old gazillionaire computer whi2 
with his own e-business scarrup. Across the nation, thousands of humanities majors 
began to wonder whether they should be studying Java instead of John Milton. 
But as the media have recently noted with barely concealed glee, the bubble has most 
certainly burst. The Nasdaq saw its worst ever losses, 40 percent, in 2000, due primarily to 
rbe failure of Internet stocks. Nearly 36,000 technology workers have lost their jobs. Last 
January, Jj)e-companies bought airtime during the Super Bowl; this year, only four did. No one 
has yet dared to breathe the word "recession," but Alan Greenspan did admit last month that the 
economy was at a "standstill." 
The heady dot-com era has not passed entirely, however. One legacy is the dream of the dorm-
room entrepreneur-the dream that a kid barely out of high school could create a successful busi-
ness plan and be taken seriously by real investors with real money. To hear them talk, Yale's srudenr


entrepreneurs are just getting srarted and are poised to lead them-
"Last year, Ivy Bound had around 40 dienrs. That's 40 families, 40 
selves, the school, and the entire city of New Haven to glory. But 
sets of demands that had to be satisfied. That's too much work," ~ 
the recent failures of several of the most publicized ventures raise 
Sternberg said. He cut the number of prospective student-clients ., 
the question: Have Yalies come to the table too late to get a piece of 
this year, and probably won't continue operating the company after · 
the pie? 
graduation. 
Ask Mike Stern. Until December 2000, he was the C.E.O. of 
These students' experiences in the world of business both : 
Aquarium Ventures, which had the recursive mission of finding and 
complement and conflict with their education in the same way as, • 
funding other dorm-room entrepreneurs. Aquarium Ventures was, 
say, the editorship of a student newspaper does. And just as a stu- ! • 
of course, a venture itself. It was one of the first companies to be 
dent newspaper brings together aspiring journalists, the Yale • 
funded by Dagim Capital, a New Haven venture capital (vc) fund 
Entrepreneurial Sociery (YES) has become the main meeting ground • 
started by a Yale graduate student, Benjamin Karp, and Orthodox 
for student entrepreneurs. David Pozen founded YES last year with i 
Rabbi Shmully Hecht, 'Yho runs the Chai Society, a Jewish social 
Sean Glass, Mark Volchek, and Miles Lasater, all entrepreneurs, and ! 
organization where Yalies network over schnapps. With this unusu-
has seen it grow to over 700 members. They run a $5o,ooo business : 
al backing and its campus-focused business plan, Aquarium 
plan competition, Y50K, sponsored by corporations and judged by a ! 
Ventures immediately attracted attention. As its founder, Stern was 
panel of investors and entrepreneurs. Yale recendy agreed to admin- ; 
profiled in;~. O'umber of slick e-business publications such as Fast 
ister the Y50K prize, allowing YES to assume non-profit status. The 
Company, &d Herring, and Busin~ss 2.0. Fortun~ magazine asked of 
organization has also been given office space on York Street to incu-
Stern and several other vc founders, "Can these Doogie Howser vcs 
bate fledgling student businesses. 
fmd and foster firms that will rate an "A" and make a profit?" 
The tapid growth of YES seems to indicate a latent demand for 
"Running a startup company is like being a juggler with a thousand 
business opportunities at Yale. Mark Gretens, the C.E.O. of Elm 
different balls in the air. You can't let any of them drop," Stern told 
City Ventures, another New Haven vc fum started by Yale business 
UMagazin~ in a typically self-assured sound bite. Heeding hjs own 
and graduate students, says, "Everybody feels that the human capi-
wisdom, Stern took last fall off Yale to work on the company full-
tal at Yale is tremendously under-leveraged." Almost all the student 
time. 
· 
entrepreneurs I talked to invoked the examples of MIT and Stanford, 
According to its website, aquariumvmtur~s.com, "[Aquarium's] 
both of which have long-established business plan competitions and 
success depends on our ability to identify tomorrow's great compa-
resources for student entrepreneurs that have added to their allure 
nies today, and get them moving fast." Apparendy, though, that 
for programmers and other new-economy types. Emulating this 
never happened. Aquarium Ventures closed up shop after ten 
forward-looking image, Harvard announced last year to great fan-
months, having invested in only two student companies, 
fare that it was relaxing the rules regarding students running busi-
Goldthumb Technologies and Broadcastbuilders.Com. "The econ-
nesses over the University network; Yale still occasionally enforces a : 
omy slowed down," Stern explains, "and we were obviously having 
policy against commercial activiry in the dorms, belying the term • 
some trouble, as everyone else was." Now back in school, Stern has 
"dorm-room entrepreneur." "We're far, far behind a lot of our peers ; 
a new respect for experience. "I would tell anyone to line up your 
in terms of creating an entrepreneurial environment," says 
ducks before you jump in the water ... Before you start up, get as 
Newman. "Yale got a late start but is catching up fast." 
much feedback from smart people as you can. God knows we made 
Unfortunately, Yale has to do this catching up in a much less : 
a lot of mistakes, but none of them were new." 
favorable economic climate than that of the last few years. "It's too ~ 
Failure isn't the only thing that can hurt student entrepreneurs; 
late for Yale to become another MIT," says Gretens. Sternberg ; 
success is dangerous too. Classmates have called Joshua Newman 
recounts a harrowing popped-bubble experience: "I had a meeting :• 
the "superstar ofYale entrepreneurship." He co-founded Sharkbyte, 
wicb an incubator on the day the Nasdaq dropped 500 points and :· 
a computer consulting firm, his freshman year. "The firm began to 
then came up 500 points on the same day. I was in my car, driving • 
grow until it hit 20 people a year and a half ago," Newman said, 
to New York, and I heard it on National Public Radio, and I was 
"then we were bought by a company called Quantrum and sub-
like, 'Oh no, I hope they're not liStening to this.' [The downturn] 
sumed into it. By cbe time the company was sold I was the only stu-
hurt a lot because all of a sudden [investors] were like, 'Hey, you 
dent still left. I was in school the whole time--1 just stopped sleep-
don't have experience really' .... My sense is that there's a kind of 
ing and going to the bathroom." Seth Sternberg had a similar prob-
general discouragement. Being an entrepreneur is not sexy any-
lem with the success of Ivy Bound, his college consulting company. 
more." 




**A Y ... •nd F•mlly Tr.cfltlon for Over • Ou•rtet' of • c.ntury**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A Y ... •nd F•mlly Tr.cfltlon for Over • 
Ou•rtet' of • c.ntury 
+ Pizza + Puta + Casseroles + Subs + Gyros + 
+ Sovvlakl + Sandwiches + Seafood + Chicken • 
+ Steak + Salads • Dally Special • 
• Hot OA' Cold Platters • Burgers + Wings • 
+ a- + Wine + 0ess«ts + 
+ a er-n • Milk Shakes • 
Happy Valentine's Dayl 
Accepting Flex Dollars 
Sun-Thurs 11 am-1 am 
Frl & Sat 11 am-2om 
Located behind Sterling Ubrary 
Next door to Tood's 
2M York Str-t New Haven, CT 06511 
787-7471 787-7472


**Title: New Haven Mayoral Race**
**Author: MichJel Gerber**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
By MichJel Gerber 
The mayor has not run the city of New Haven for the last · 
seven years on charisma and congeniality. He doesn't court the 
press, and much of the time the media has responded in kind. But 
DeStefano doesn't seem to mind-he simply tells his mom not to 
read the Nng Haven Advocate. DeStefano's supporters know that he 
doesn't go out of his way to be delicate, or even tactful. "He's got-
ten calloused about making decisions that have to be made but will 
piss people off," says Matthew Nemerson, former CEO of the New 
Haven Chamber of Commerce. "And he doesn't tell them he's sorry 
about it. [DeStefano] has presented an image of himself that is 
tough and unemotional. A lot of people have assumed he's arrogant 
and uncaring," Nemerson adds. "I don't think that's true, but he 
comes off that way." 


MARTIN LoONEY SITS AT A CONFERENCE TABLE in his Orange Street 
office across the street from City Hall, with his hands folded on the 
table. At 52, Looney is seven years older than DeStefano. His smile 
and his smaller stature make him a less intimidating presence than 
the mayor, and while DeStefano expects people to know what he's 
accomplished and dismisses those who · do not, Looney wants to 
explain to everyone why he should be mayor. 
"I think the city is prepared for a change," Looney says. "There 
is a lq_ss of energy," he adds, speaking of DeStefano's City Hall. 
With two decades in the state legislature and prior experience in 
city politics, Looney thinks he is just the person to bring a new atti-
tude into the city government. And Looney and his supporters offer 
other reasons why the mayor should lose his job. DeStefano, they 
say, does not play well with others. 


FmnmARY 9, 2001 
Mayor John DeStefano 
LAsT YEAR, DESTEFANO SENT A LETTER accusing Looney of shirking 
his duty as a state senator by not bringing adequate state funds to 
New Haven. According to DeStefano, he was merely doing his job. 
"As quarterback of the city ... I'm here to see that this is a healthy 
community," he says. But Looney, and some members of the Board 
of Aldermen, see the letter as "symptomatic of his overall approach 
of being divisive and harsh rather than consensus-building." 
Looney claims that the mayor's inability to work with others 
has cost him the support of many of his former Democratic party 
allies. "There's been a sort of estrangement and alienation from a 
number of people in the community, and obviously the mayor's try-
ing to turn that into an advantage by saying that the fact that he 
doesn't have a relationship with x, Y, and z is because of his own 
actions," he says. But in Looney's eyes, the mayor's break from the 
Democratic Party's machine does not signal a reformed City Hall; 
rather, the mayor has created his own system of patronage--a 
machine that revolves less around the party and more around those 
individuals who give to the mayor's campaign. Looney pledges to 
dismande that machine. "My approach to government will be 
inclusive, participatory, responsive to segments of the community," 
he says. "It will signal an end to factionalism, and a unified party 
and administration." 



**Title: DeStefano's New Attitude**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
IN THE LAST YEAR, some local Democrats have noticed a change in the mayor. " He became more charismatic, more popular, more responsive, Alderman Julio Gonzalez said last fall, before he joined the mayor's campaign. "I really feel there has been a change in the tone of the administration. 

Gonzalez is not alone in his newfound enthusiasm for the DeStefano administration. The race for the nomination has not only split the Democratic party, but has also strengthened the convictions of each veteran of New Haven politics, but a young graduate of Yale Law School named Henry Fernandez.

Supporters seem to think DeStefano has broken free of his debts to the party that got him the job. "When you first get elected there's a tendency to bring in the people who brought you to the dance," DeStefano admits. But the general feeling in New Haven is that the Democratic Party does not work the way it used to. If the mayor can convince New Haven that he is the one responsible for turning an oligarchy into a meritocracy, he will be mayor again next year.

Local leaders who had previously shown lukewarm support for the mayor are preparing to actively campaign for him. Bill Dyson, who represents New Haven in the Connecticut Assembly, will support DeStefano because, in his opinion, the Looney camp has offered no agenda, while DeStefano has "made a vast improvement."

The mayor is hesitant to say that he has changed significantly in the last year-that would be an admission that his first six years were much less productive and energetic. But he knows he learned something from Jim Newton's strong showing in 1999: "Two years ago voters sent me a message [that] they were concerned with city government," he says of the last election.

Gonzalez and Dyson attribute the mayor's new attitude to his rift with Democratic leaders like Balletto. As Dyson explains, "[DeStefano) is slowly but surely surrounding himself with people that he trusts." Indeed, the people surrounding each candidate have become as much of an issue in this campaign as the candidates themselves. During his first six years in office, it seemed that DeStefano could not avoid scandal. He managed to come through nearly unscathed each time, while members of his administration took the fall. In the process, the look of City Hall has changed. Chief Administrative Officer Jim Horan had not lived in New Haven prior to working for the mayor. The head of economic development is no longer a member of the Democratic machine. "Rewarding friends in the city is something [the old party bosses) did well," says Robin Kroogman, an alderwoman who will likely support Looney. She faults the mayor for hiring staffers from outside the city, pointing to Fernandez, Horan, and parks director Robert Levine, who moved from Virginia to New Haven to take the job.

DeStefano's supporters believe that the mayor's administration has found the necessary balance between the reformer, grassroots liberals, and the traditional, Party-oriented Democrats. "On the one hand, the mayor gets criticized for working with Party regulars; on the other, he's criticized for not working with them," Nemerson says. "If you study urban policies in America, all of the successful mayors ... present themselves as reformers who are going to do things in a market-based way, while cutting as many deals as they can."

While it might not seem right, patronage always has and probably always will play some role in New Haven politics. It's a part of the DeStefano administration, but it would surely be a part of the Looney administration as well.

In fact, the Looney team features many former players from DeStefano's City


**Title: New Haven's Mayoral Race**
**Author: Michael Gerb**
**Page number(s): 15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Hall. For example, Patti Cofrancesco, formerly a top city lawyer, was fired by the 
mayor after signing off on questionable city 
loans to another city employee, Andrea 
Jackson-Brooks. Now, Jackson-Brooks is 
on the Board of Aldermen, Cofrancesco 
practices law in New Haven, and both are 
expected to support Looney. 

Why would Looney, who has usually 
been known as a reformer, join the Party 
team? His first job in city government was 
as aide to Mayor Frank Logue, a non-
machine candidate in the 1970s. Martin 
Looney has had his eye on City Hall for a 
long time, and the rift in local Democratic 
leadership might give him the best opportunity anyone 
has 
had 
to 
unseat 
DeStefano. "[Looney] is a good guy with a 
clean record who's right on state issues," 
Gonzalez says. "I just don't see how he 
could govern without appeasing that 
[Party] base." 

MAYOR DESTEFANO THINKS voters don't 
care about political maneuvering—they 
want the soccer fields mowed and the 
schools improved. "When you've got an 
incumbent, [the voters] are going to look 
and say, 'Am I satisfied or not?'" In his 
opinion, the people of New Haven are better 
off now than they were before he 
became mayor. "There's no doubt that 
New Haven is a more confident place than 
it was a year ago." 

The mayor is right about most voters: 
They don't care about politics, who's running 
whose campaign, and who's supporting 
whom. They will decide the election 
based on how their lives are right now, and 
they care about schools, parks, and policing. But they also want a City Hall free of 
debts to political bosses and corporate 
donors—something neither DeStefano nor 
Looney can promise. 

Michael Gerb, a senior in Ezra Stiles 
College, is a contributing editor of TNJ. 


**Minutes from Yale**
**Author: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
:·::;Daniel 
Kurtz-Phelan 
Minutes from Yale 
community of 
T 
HE WESTERN HONDURAN LANDSCAPE IS BLANKETED with cloud-forest and dotted with tiny 
Indian villages. In every town, something is missing: There are almost no men between the 
ages of 18 and 35· Everywhere, the explanation for their absence is the same: They have left for EL 
Nort~. 

The sprawling, loose-knit, Honduran family from whom r rented a room last summer was 
typical. Three sisters and their children lived together in a house; their husbands and eldest sons 
were already gone, expected to return at some unspecified point in the future. The oldest male 
left in the household was Francisco, and though he was only twelve, he was already talking about 
his own upcoming journey. When I asked him how men get through Guatemala and Mexico and 
over the border into the u.s., he responded nonchalandy, "You go visit the coyote." It is a sim-
ple business transaction. You pay the coyote and he delivers you co EL Nort~. If the first attempt 
fails, you go again and again until you've made it. The whole thing sounded impossibly easy. 

Honduras, the second poorest nation in the Western Hemisphere, has been devastated, like 
much of Central America, by successive hu~ricanes and floods in the past two years. The poor 
own no land and have little opportunity to find work. In areas heavily populated by Indians, 
unemployment pushes 50 percent. The only option is to head north. Still, it is startling to see the 
magnitude of the flight reflected in what is left behind: entire families without a single male fig-
ure, children who have never met their fathers, mothers who haven't seen their sons in decades. 

All are awaiting the return of some long-departed relative whose memory takes on a shadowy, 
mythic stature in letters, memories, and anecdotes. 

One day, I met the coyote. Jaime wore a red flannel shirt and sported a long black ponytail. 
He listened to Led Zeppelin and the Rolling Stones and had once played in a rock-and-roll band. 
He showed off the few Engltsh phrases that he knew ("Jou are very bee-oo-ty-ful"), and togeth-
er we sang the first verse of "Black Dog." When I brought up immigration, he grinned drunk-
enly, revealing a missing front tooth. But he evaded my questions. How much does he chacge? 
Depends. $2,ooo, $3,000, maybe more. How does he get people to El Norte? Depends. Truck, 
bus, maybe plane. How do his clients cross the border? Depends. Through the river, over the 
fence, hidden in the trunk of a car or the back of a truck. Jaime, however, was emphatic on one 
point: Getting to the u.s. is easy and certain, despite Ia migra (a moniker for the border police 
used on both sides of the Rio Grande). "We are," be said in Spanish, "like the barbarians invad-
ing Rome." 


THE U.S. CURRENTLY HAS A HIGHER PROPORTION OF IMMIGRANTS 
than at any other time in the past hundred years. Scill, New 
Haven-thousands of miles from the border, lacking any major 
industry or agriculture--seems an unlikely place to come across 
undocumented workers. I hardly expected to find anyone in this 
smaJl, northeastern city who had completed the long, dangerous 
journey from Latin America. I decided to look anyway-and what 
I found was an entire underground community of ilegales a short 
walk away from the Yale campus. 

I just had to head southeast on Elm Street, past the Green, and 
through downtown. When Elm became Grand Avenue, I continued 
under 1-91 and crossed over the train tracks into Fair Haven. 
Suddenly, the signs were in Spanish-Lujo's Librerfa, El CanquC 
Restaurante, Lujinera Caribera-and Spanish graffiti ragged fences 
and storefronts. 

Fair Haven has been the center of New Haven's Puerto Rican 
population for decades. Recently, a new crowd has come to the 
neighborhood: the ilegales, undocumented immigrants from 
Mexico, Colombia, Guatemala, and a host of other Larin American 
countries. Signs on storefronts read "No loitering-Police rake 
notice" (or somcthin~ in Spanish), but the measure hac~ 
seems necessary. Though it is a-sunny Sarurday afternoon, few peo-
ple are out in the streets. Grand old wood-plank houses line the 
streets, their large porches pushing almost to the sidewalk. Some of 
~e houses show signs of careful attention, freshly painted in blues 
and pinks, with small fences and Christmas decorations. But every 
block also has houses that have f.illen into disrepair. Their windows 
are boarded up, their ancient paint-jobs flaked almost off, their 
porches caved in at 45 degree angles. Some of the most decrepit ones 
show the smallest signs of habitation: broken windows covered with 
newspaper, a makeshifr mailbox propped against a porch column. 

Though the streets are mostly empty, I occasionally see some-
one walking hurriedly, eyes down, into a house, or a small group of 
men standing on a street-corner. But whenever I approach them, 
they eye me suspiciously and move away. Finally, I see a woman 
watching me from the other side of the street, and I ask her, in 
Spanish, if people live in these houses. She shrugs. "Only ws ilegales." 

Last summer, Immigration and Naturalization Services (INS) 
agents raided a condemned house on Cedar Hill Avenue and found 
35 undocumented workers living there. At the time, the INS report-
ed knowledge of at least eight such hovels around New Haven, each 
of which housed two or three dozen immigrants. According to 
Hernando Diosa, a prominent journalist and radio personality in 
the local Latino community, houses for ilegales still abound in Fair 
Haven and a number of ocher local neighborhoods. "I know a 
house where 40 or 50 people live. There are only three bedrooms. 
People sleep in the hallways, on newspapers on the floors." Afrer the 
ilegales cleared out of the Cedar HiH Avenue house, authorities dis-
covered feces littering the basement and a chimney that was on the 
verge of collapse. 

In recent years, Diosa says, Fair Haven has been flooded with 
new 
immigrants-" Mexicans, 
Guatemalans, 
Salvadorans, 
Peruvians, Hondurans, Colombians, all groups." Latinos are the 
fastest-growing segment of New Haven's population. The official 
community now numbers almost 25,000, 50 percent larger than it 
was ten years ago. It is hard to say just how many more are undoc-
umented. "The people are scared, some of them are even afraid of 
me because they think I'm Ia migra," Diosa tells me. "But there are 
at least 5,000 ilegales in New Haven." 

CARLos PASSES ME A DRINK AND SITS DOWN AT THE TABLE, where I 
am chatting with a man who calls himself Sigi. The two ilegales are 



**Title: A Desolate Calm**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A DESOLATE CALM settles over the streets of 
Fair Haven. The neighborhood shows few 
signs of the underground community it 
harbors. Given the sheer number of ikgale 
that live in the neighborhood, the empti-
ness seems all the more startling. 

A recent article in the *New Haven Advocate* alleged that ikgale "live in con-


**Title: Untitled**
**Author:  Daniel Kurtz-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"OuR MISSION IS TO GET HERE and work 
hard for two, three, four years and then to 
return home," Carlos explains to me. "All 
my family is in Medellin, and I want to go 
back .... " He trails off and looks at a pho-
tograph of an Andean village on the wall. 

Diosa tells me that be, too, came to 
the u.s with the intention of going back 
home to his f.unily and friends, but son,.e-
wbere along the way, his plan changed. He 
came from Colombia 25 years ago. He had 
obtained a temporary tourist visa by slip-
ping a corrupt Colombian official $4,000 
under the table, and he didn't return home 
after the visa expired. "When I came here, 
I told my f.unily that I was going to work 
for a year and then come back. I starred 
working. I washed dishes. I was like a 
gypsy," he recounts. "Then Ia migra want-
ed to deport me, so I married an American 
lady, and we had rwo kids, and we still live 
together." Diosa is now a prominent and 
well-connected figure in the immigrant 
community. Still, he doesn't romanticize 
the story. "For most of the people involved, 
marriage is just a business." 

The ikgales come with the plan of 
making some money and then going back 
home. They focus on the task at hand, try 
ro stay our of trouble, work hard, follow 
the jobs and whatever friends and f.unily 
may be in El Norte as well. Somehow, in 
walking this difficult course, the original 
intention of going home gees lost. The 
quest to return home is supplanted by the 
quest ro obtain papers. "The mission 
becomes to get documentS, to marry an 
American," Carlos continues. Diosa mar-
ter-of-factly describes the course of his and 
his friends' lives in El Nom. "You say you're 
going to come back, but when you start 
you don't know what will really happen 
because you don't know where you're 
going. People come here, and they try to 
get married or become legal some way. 
They don't go back. They stay here." 

In 
the 
mountains of Western 
Honduras, wives anticipate their husbands' 
returns and children wait to meet their 
fathers for the first time. They continue 
hoping, while the ilegales continue down a 
path of no return. And as soon as each 
fatherless boy is old enough, the f.unily 
takes itS savings, contactS the coyote, and 
sends another to El Nom. -
Dani~l Kurtz-Ph~lan, a sophomore in 
&rk~ky Co~. is res~arch dir~ctor o[TNJ. 
FEBRUARY 9, 2001 


**Title: How Yale Jumped on the High Tech Train with Project X**
**Author: Ronen Givony**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

IN THE SUMMER OF 1996, not long after people began to get excited about the pace of the new econo-
my, rwo ofYale's highest officers met to discuss how the University would keep up. For Provost Alison 
Richard and Associate Vice President Joseph Mullinix, there was reason to worry: Yale's mainframes and 
administrative systems were becoming obsolete, and business practices lagged years behind the latest 
technology. Most antiquated was the University's 15-year-old accounting software, which had been 
designed when Yale was a significantly less prosperous place than it is today. On top of questions of 
mere obsolescence was the almost religious fervor surrounding Y2K, the modern twist to the familiar 
apocalypse story (which still turned out less bang than whimper). Even more dire than the state of 
aging buildings and facilities around campus, it seemed, was the delicate starus ofYale's digital infra-
structure. 

Richard and Mullinix quickly called for a committee and working groups to address the problem. 
Over 6o individuals from all levels of the University would assist in the effort and report back to the 
administration with their findings. They were asked to submit a preliminary budget, evaluate poten-
tial contractors, and develop an overall program strategy. They eventually proposed what rurned out 
to be the largest, costliest, and most controversial restructuring program in Yale's history-the omi-
nous, if unirnpressively named, Project X. Project X promised to change almost every aspect of the way 
Yale conducted business, from making office life paperless to automating tasks that once involved an 
intricate hierarchical chain of people and processes. It heralded nothing less than a new work envi-
ronment, free from so-called "redundancy," guided by the new (and yet old) economic virtues of effi-
ciency, rapidity, and automation. Four years, $wo million, and the retraining of several hundred 
employees later, nearly everyone at Yale agrees that Project X has done all these things. They only dis-
THE NEW JouRNAL 


--- Page 27 ---
FEBRUARY 9• 2001 

agree as to whether this constitutes a success, or a minor catastrophe. 

NoBODY SEEMS TO KNOW WHAT THE X IN PROJECT X STANDS FOR. Certainly it's better than the offi-
cial name (the Yale "Finance and Human Resources Modernization Project") that was somehow 
approved. Still, almost every affected Yale employee, at one time or another, has probably felt its unof-
ficial name signified something unsavory: One woman I spoke with said she believed it stood for "X-
cruciacing"; "X-cessive" was another guess I heard; a third, "X-crement." Feelings of prolonged frus-
tration are also expressed by the Project's most vocal supporters and by people who were instrumental 
in bringing it about. Mk any Yale employee co calk about the early stages of Project X, and the response 
you get will inevitably be clinical. (The word "painful" seems especially popular; one person made an 
extended comparison to surgery.) "We survived," said Dean Plummer, one of the Project's architects. 
"We got through it. Ic was painful, but we made it." 

Before Yale had to worry about such things as Y2K compliance, the routine functions of office 
work--check requests, payroll, accoum maintenance-were largely a matter of directing paper forms 
co specific offices. Requests co purchase anything from a stapler to a new computer required handling 
by the Purchasing Office. There were Payroll people, Grants Management people, Personnel people, 
Accounts Payable people, and so on. In order to be reimbursed for the simplest personal expense, for 
example, an employee would have to fill out one form, have that form signed by the office business 
manager, then send it up the street to the first floor of 155 Whitney, Accounts Payable, where another 
pale face would look it over, sign it, and chen send it back down the street. Even then, you could never 
really be sure the envelope would complete its journey. 

No one much doubted that the Project X operation would be at least mildly painful; what came 
as a surprise was the extent of the trauma. Back in 1996, when the Yale Steering Committee first began 
investigating the available upgrade options, it had the experience of peer institutions to instruct it. T he 
University of Pennsylvania had beaten everyone to the line, going live with a limited installation of 
Oracle database software in July 1996. Penn had asked Oracle simply to update certain of its financial 
systems and to patch up others for Y2K compliance in a gradual rollouc over the course of several years. 
Princeton and Stanford had similar plans. Harvard, on the other hand, announced that it was over-
hauUng nearly all of its administrative systems at once. In so doing. it kick-started the kind of back-
and-forth race that characterizes most policy changes in universities today. The imperative was dear: 
Yale had to meet its competitors' challenge. Would Old Blue merely hold pace with the new econo-



**Title: Project X**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
my--or would it pull, so to speak, into the 
lead? 

The working groups reported back 
with their findings in a lengthy study, 
which discussed the many shortcomings of 
·Yale's existing systems and proposed a bold 
corrective. 

They found, in their own 
words, that obsolete software and antiquat-
ed business practices were often "impeding 
the best efforts of faculty and staff." They 
argued that the entire University commu-
nity was frustrated and distracted by "com-
plex, time-consuming, and costly adminis-
trative processes in the course of their aca-
demic work." The study maintained that 
while Yale could, conceivably, foUow the 
more tentative course taken by Penn-
patching some systems and upgrading only 
those in the most critical condition-an 
alternative if more challenging option was 
open to them. 

Rather than go halfway, 
Yale could go the better way-the way of 
Harvard-and even a step beyond. In one 
giant leap forward, Yale could "reengineer" 
not only its technology, but also the equal-
ly obsolete routines of its users. 

The University agreed; 
and 
m 
September, with Pentium-like speed, the 
Yale Corporation approved funding for a 
large-scale tech upgrade. Accompanying 
the ongoing facilities renovation project 
would be an equally intensive renovation of 
information technology. 

The lucrative 
contract, initially projected at $30 million, 
went to Silicon Valley database giant 
Oracle, whose CEO, Larry Ellison, is the 
second richest person in America. With 
Oracle promising that "the deluge of papers 
and forms that can overwhelm even the 
most efficient Yale staff members will soon 
become a thing of the past," the University 
signed a four-year agreement with the com-
pany, making Yale a test site for some of its 
newest database and financial systems. 
Project X was officially born. 

AN ARMY OF PROGRAMMI:!RS and consul-
tants from Oracle and KPMG were called in 
to begin implementing the new system. 

Soon, it became clear that Project X would 
be a learning experience for both the doc-
tors and the patient. By 1997, Oracle had 
already overseen complete system overhauls 
for businesses and governments around the 
world, but never for a university. 

New 
technology was to replace obsolete systems 
in any department or office that main-
tained its own payroll, purchasing, general 
accounting, financial planning, or grant 
funding-which is to say, every single 
office at Yale. The everyday tasks that once 
required eight separate forms sent to eight 
separate central departments would now be 
handled by a single web-based system. The 
old mainframe was to be completely 
replaced with rwo brand-new IBM servers, 
which could be accessed by 2,000 screens 
simultaneously over a new fiber-optic net-
work. Beyond mere boldness, Yale could 
also claim credit for being a trendsetter, the 
first university to commit itself to such a 
massive undertaking. 

But being first 
counts more in some races than in others, 
and the distinction of being first with 
Project X was rather dubious. 

A month after the Corporation 
approved the project, Richard and Mullinix 
announced the new initiative, already 
going by the unofficial moniker "Project 
X," in a letter printed in the October 7-14 
issue of the Yale Bulletin & Calendar. An 
official statement of goals, in no particular 
order, was soon drafted, and would become 
nearly omnipresent in the Project X litera-
ture: 

[I)mproving management and plan-
ning at all University levels; providing 
higher-quality administrative services 
to faculty, students, staff, alumni, 
donors and sponsors; improving rev-
enues; and reducing risk through more 
reliable business support systems. 

Also in October, the Oracle people came in 
and set up temporary headquarters at 12 
Prospect Place. Working with them to test 
the software were uo full-time workers 
from across the University-people from 
the Arts and Sciences faculty, Athletics, the 
School of Forestry, Yale College, and 
Animal Care. Over the next four months, 
team members would learn the software 
and then propose how it could be tailored 
to best meet Yale's needs. They developed 
product specifications and suggested design 
changes along the way. Meanwhile, Oracle 
planned Yale's future database system-
projected at 1.2 terabytes worth of code, or 
the equivalent of around 50 million vol-
umes of the Encyc/op~dia Britannica. 

Once the pilot testing of the Oracle 
software was completed in March, Yale 
began the more arduous task of phasing 
out its existing systems while adjusting 
employees to the new ones. That same 
month, Project X sent out some 500 invita-
tions to business managers, department 
heads, and other staff to take part in a 
training program advertised as "the most


PROJECT X COST OVER $100 MILLION-$33 MILLION 
IN 1998, WHEN THINGS WERE RUNNING SMOOTHLY, AND 
$70.5 MILLION IN 1999, WHEN THEY WERE NOT. 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


extensive ever offered by the University.: 
Sessions covering everything from software 
usage to "Preparing for Change" would 
help employees with the difficult learning 
process. T he handsome new office housing 
Project X on the nimh floor of a downtown 
building was equipped with itS own train-
ing room and a fleet of new computers for 
group sessions. A separate learning center, 
similarly appointed, soon went up at 220 
Whitney. Suddenly, it seemed that not a 
day went by when Yale employees weren't 
being invited to avail themselves of focus 
groups, full-day workshops, 
business 
redesign workshops, management issues 
forums, hands-on training, implementa-
tion planning, in-depth briefing sessions, 
and telephone support. No topic was con-
sidered self-explanatory, and training ses-
sions always restricted class sizes, of course, 
so as not to discourage the group from ask-
ing questions. 

The planners, it must be said, were 
certainly mindful of the people uncomfort-
able with Project X. Steve Sunderland, the 
Project manager, told the Bulktin · & 
Cakndar (in the first of itS series of articles 
devoted to the subject} that he was "fully 
aware" that "for some people on campus 
who have become accustomed to doing 
their jobs the same way for many years, the 
modernization might make them anxious 
about bow the changes will affect them." 
Sunderland stressed that everyone--rony-
one--would have the opportunity to be 
trained. 

"There's no doubt that such a 
major change can be scary," acknowledged 
Margaret Plympton, another director of 
Project X. For chat reason, she said, her 
team was working hard co make people feel 
FEBRUARY 9· 2001 
ac ease about the transition, since, natural-
ly, "we'll all be going through the change-
over together." 

ONE BY ONE, Yale began to transform exist-
ing systems into "modernized" Oracle 
equivalentS. By the summer of 1998, Yale 
had successfully installed the first round of 
Oracle human resources (HR) and account-
ing applications. Already, it was becoming 
easy to see how Project X would change 
office life. Redundancy could now be 
replaced by simple, efficient automation. 
No longer would HR staffers spend their 
days photocopying and filing the 12,500 
resumes that Yale receives each year; now 
they could simply be dropped into a scan-
ner and filed electronicalJy. As Mullinix 
told Oracle's company publication, the 
baldly tided Profit magazine, "The princi-
pal idea is, 'Do it right; do it once."' 

But the Oracle transition team stood 
to learn something from the ethic pro-
pounded by Mullinix. It is difficult to 
gauge precisely how faithful Project X was 
to its self-imposed deadlines because those 
dares were changed many times and hardly 
any of them was actually met. Originally, 
Project X was to be completed in two phas-
es-the first phase, largely clerical and 
technical in nature, in July 1998, and the 
second phase, largely administrative, in 
April 1999. In reality, the final launch was 
delayed three times because of, well, tech-
nical difficulties. 

As the April deadline 
approached, test after test uncovered new 
problems to solve. As April I became May 
1 and then, just as quickly, July I, the 
Project architects went on the defensive. 
With 
uncommon 
prescience, 
Dean 
Plummer contrasted the modernization 
process with an election: "It's not like an 
election when on a certain date you fmd 
out who won and that's the end of it," he 
told a Yak Daily News reporter. "It's more 
like a learning process where you sign up 
for a lesson and come out much, much 
smarter." 

Without a finished product to intro-
duce to employees, Project X was forced to 
continue offering training programs for 
software that didn't yet exist. And the delay 
only served to aggravate further the 
hideous budget overrun that saw Project X 
go three times over itS original $30 million 
allocation. When the new Oracle software 
fmally went live on July 6, 1999, no one 
really knew what ro expect. O n July 9, 
when the first batch of paychecks was 
printed, they got an idea. 

T he checks showed up at the wrong 
location. Such was the inauspicious open-
ing, and more of the same was to come. 
Staff benefitS were calculated improperly; 
data entry errors, bugs, and glitches kept 
reappearing in the system. Employees, 
upon opening the web-based Oracle pro-
grams, seemed much less competent than 
the Project directors had hoped. Some 
employees complained that there was not 
enough qualified technical staff around to 
help the less experienced, and some prob-
lems left even the technicians themselves 
scratching their heads. 

Almost nothing went well during the 
first year of Project X. Clerical and techni-
cal staff, in particular-the 2,800 predomi-
nantly middle-aged, female employees sit-
ting at desb and keeping the University 
operating-were finding it difficult to 
learn programs they used only sporadicalJy. 


This proved worrisome, because for the 
first time, all Yale offices and academic 
departments were to submit their budget 
proposals-formerly plotted on a simple 
Excel spreadsheet, or even handwritten 
with pen and paper-in the new Oracle 
format. In February 2000, 
officials 
announced that the University budget for 
fiscal year 2001 would not be completed 
until two months after its usual April sub-
mission deadline because of lingering 
Project X growing pains. 

Still, in hindsight it appears that 
Project X was far less painful than it could · 
have been. In March 2000, Ohio State and 
Cleveland State, which had chosen to work 
with Oracle's competitor, PeopleSoft, 
reported that their system upgrades were 
proceeding miserably. Ohio learned that 
its project, estimated at $53 million over. 
three years, would cost $90 million and 
take six years. Yale also had the satisfaction 
of trumping its neighbor in Cambridge. 

Like Yale, Harvard had begun planning a 
systems upgrade back in 1996, and even 
gave the effort a similarly bland name, 
Project ADAPT. 

Also like Yale, Harvard, 
working with Oracle, went far over budget, 
faced delays, and-perhaps believing that 
one Game a year wasn't enough-also set-
tled on a July 1 deadline. But whereas the 
turnover at Yale is retrospectively deemed 
manageable, Harvard offices are still strug-
gling with their transition to Oracle, and 
Project ADAPT is widely considered an 
embarrassment. 

IN DECEMBER 1999, with all the new sys-
tems finally in place, Mullinix told the YON 
that it would be difficult to calculate exact-
ly how much Yale had spent on the Project: 
"The problem is that the Project is many 
projects and so it all depends on what you 
include in the cost estimate." Mullinix had 
a personal stake in Project X as one of its 
original planners, which may explain his 
weak explanation to the same reporter: "It's 
just such a mishmash of scuff that it is very 
hard to come up with a number." 

Officially, the matter was handled with 
30 
more decorum. In Yale's financial state-
ment for fiscal year 1999, the figure given 
for all the training and technology was over 
$100 million-$33 million in 1998, when 
things were running smoothly, and $70.5 
million in 1999, when they were not. A 
staggering amount of money-and yet, in 
these fat and plentiful economic days, only 
a fraction of the $1.24 billion 
Yale spent to keep the 
University running in 1999. 

One year 
later, 
in 
February 2001, a near-unani-
mous 
consensus 
deems 
Project X a success. Across 
the board, administrators say 
that, while they wouldn't 
want to revisit the early days 
of the Project, it has had a 
positive efkct on working 
life at Yale. 

Chuck Paul, 
Yale's 
Director of Total 
Compensation, says that 
Project X has empowered 
individual employees and rid 
the University of long trails 
of paper. 

According to Brian Tunney, 
Director of Labor Relations for the 
University, the transition co Project X has 
constituted a near non-issue for Yale's 
workforce. Tunney explains that Project X 
has not caused intimidation or lost jobs; 
rather, Yale now employs over 200 more 
full-time workers than it did prior to the 
Oracle overhaul. Of the University's 
upcoming contract renegotiations with 
Locals 34 and 35, Tunney added that 
Project X would almost certainly not be an 
issue. 

At the same time, some of Yale's work-
force say they have yet to see the wonderful 
advances promised by Project X. Eighteen 
months after Oracle went live, some of 
Yale's clerical and technical workers are dis-
satisfied-a frivolous response, according 
to their higher-ups. The reasons behind 
their dissatisfaction extend back to the ear-
liest announcements of Project X, but also, 
in a sense, to before such things as web-
based financial accounting systems existed. 
11" .. 
: 
. , 
Historically, Yale's employees have been 
nothing if not class-conscious in their ret.· 
... 
· .
rionships with the University and ~ 
. 
.., 
other. Today (maybe more than ever) thett 
exists a palpable and long-stan'ding -~ 
separating the work interests of Yale's thr.te 
main labor pools. The groups usually refer 
to each other by abbreviations-manage-
ment and professional 
(M&P), clerical and tecl\iai-
cal (c&:T), and service 1:01 
maintenance (s&M~ 
at all times main~~o"''a 
clear sense of where tbey 
stand, status-wise, relan'ft 
to the other two. 

REsPONSES TO PROJECT X 
usually fall in one of nvo 
unevenly matched catftp$_,. 
On the one_hand there~ 
the articulate and c:onii-
dent views of M&:PS irt:cl!. 
central businesS offtcb. · 
There is not much ~­
thy on this side of d1t 
fence for people who persist in heli<!Villf 
Oracle programs are too difficult to 1~ 
and they may be right. Then again, th~ 
are people whose jobs handling finance and 
personnel matters were given new capabili-
ties by the powerful Oracle software, ~ 
pie who use the Oracle software evcty-: 
day--or, more likely, who have ass~ 
who use it. To ask these people about n 
difficulties incurred by Project X, you will 
hear that while some old-fashioned ptopft 
were more cautious than others, .more- Qf 
less everyone has accepted it as 50\lbe~ 
that is here to sray. To press the point-~ 
ask if there isn't really someone who is fc!!l 
than thrilled by the change, you will hear a 
slightly less diplomatic opinion, wbJcl 
holds that some people, sadly, will alw.fs 
refuse to learn. 

It's difficult to find someone in c:be 
other camp who will rebut the M&:P poibt 
of view, at least on the record. Not ~ 
there aren't people who disagree--it's jmt 
that they have either retired ca.r:ly, • •:, 
·> .,
. .... .... 



**Title: Project X**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
-..c wocking, but arc not at liberty to teU 
1beir employers what they really think of 
-
unttgements made for them. Just as 
$e Project's supporters can almost always 
t.e t6und in the more spacious offices of 
IIC&fs, the dissenters are inevitably middle-
~. ~male C&'TS who work in smaller 
!?~ and believe they are doing more 
"JJIIIrk. not less, since the new system 
~ 

These are the pesky women who, to 
t.(OcP's dismay, still complain of having dif-
t1el.llcy with the Oracle software. They 
·-.ork in residential college master's offices, 
hl libraries, and in smaller academic 
4cpanments, where on top of everyday 
qtrical tasks was suddenly placed the bur-
den of learning a difficult and unwieldy 
Oncle system. These are the women-so 
10t;s the complaint-who were never asked 
ahout Project X and never once asked for it; 
whe wen: told one day that other people 
were "n:engineering" their jobs, and that 
they ~uld have to get with the program. 
ncse are the women who answer phones 
and process student payroll, keep track .of 
hiring .and maintain department budgets, 
lox whom life is still anything but paper-
ie., and for whom Oracle's 30-digit pro-
casi~ numbers are no simpler than the 
fotms they once had to fiU out. 

' ~ . "The pressure and frustration oflearn-
il'l the systems and the programs when 
YG\J don't use them every day makes it very 
p.inful," said one master's assistant, who 
uld she eould only talk while the coUege 
· dta(er was out of the office. "Sometimes 
·1eu just want to pick up the computer and 
dii'VW'• it through the window, it's so 
piin6,aL • She says that Project X has added 
iibre wks to her life without eliminating 

ptc-Orade responsibilities. A friend of 

says she knows people who have been 

·another person would always be 
...:ely' to take over any work she found too 
tllicult, which of course is true. 
This 
Jtlen4 uys that any further comment she 
AIDibs about Project X has to be approved 
.)J 1he director of her office, who has asked 
"'- she refer all questions to him. A third 
Yale employee in the Benefits Office knows 
co-workers who have retired because of 
Project X and current employees who feel 
overly burdened by the new systems. She 
promises to ask if anyone would be inter-
ested in talking, then calls back a few days 
later and says all would rather not revisit 
the issue. 

NEARLY EVERYONE DIRECTLY involved pros-
pered handsomely as a result of Project X. 
Oracle came away with millions and a suc-
cessful partnership to advertise in wooing 
other universities. Yale installed one of the 
most sophisticated financial systems in the 
world and retrained its administrative 
workforce in the process, while reporting 
only minimal injuries. 
Individual actors 
prospered as well: Sunderland, the Project 
director, soon left Yale to work for Oracle; 
Daniel Updegrove, head of ITS during the 
Project, also left shortly after completion to 
head the much larger IT services depart-
ment for the University ofTexas at Austin. 
Most successful was probably Mullinix, 
who took a position as Senior Vice 
President of Business and Finance of the 
California state university system, despite 
teUing Profit magaz.ine that he looked for-
ward to using Oracle software to print out 
his Yale budget reports. 

But while Project X was a smash for 
the administration, it became merely 9 to 5 
for the people in the offices--the ones who 
carry out the bold initiatives of the so-
called new economy. The C&'T women's 
complaints would probably strike most 
M&Ps as idle, even willfully archaic. After 
all, no one but the most wistful Romantic 
really feels any sympathy for the Luddites, 
who smashed their bosses' 
weaving 
machines but live on today mainly as 
quaint relics of an older age. Today's work-
ing world, it seems, is unique in that the 
hammers can be ordered direcdy with 
Oracle Purchasing-only minutes before 
attending a session advising how to 
"Prepare for Change." 

Ronm Givony, a smior in Branford 
Co/kgt, is associate tditor ofTNJ. 


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Patrick Casey Pitts**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

AMER.A NUMBER TWO, ZOOM IN and give me your twO shot. 
There you go. Can you get the frwt basket and the sign too? 
Great, I'll take that. Ready camera number rwo. Take camera num-
ber two." The two people I'd just trapped in the small black and 
white box on top of my camera appeared in full color on the televi-
sion screens placed at either side of the stage. Unfortunately, the 
perfection of my framing was quickly interrupted by what seemed 
to be an on-screen earthquake. "What the fuck was that?" screamed 
the confused director. A glance at the base of my camera revealed 
that the sign-man ruffling through cue cards ("PSA" and "5 minutes" 
and "Smile!"} had delivered a blow to the base of my camera. It was 
my first mistake of the day, astonishing when one considered that 
I'd learned how to handle the mechanical beast less than 2.0 minutes 
ago. Apparently, Citizens Television truly does believe in public 
access: I'd entered a television studio for the first time in my life, 
and three hours later I was a part of the show. 

Mv INTEREST IN CITIZENS TELEVISION (CIV} STEMMED from a news 
blurb in the New Haven Advocat~. The local public access station 
had recendy finished the search for a new executive director. Instead 
32 
of hiring the candidate with ample experience who was anxious to 
return to New Haven, crv's board of directors had picked a less-
experienced candidate who was also the board's former president. 
The station was being sued by Ruben Abreu, Jr., a former executive 
direccor who claimed that he was unfairly pushed out of his job so 
that the same board president could take over his position. While 
similar power plays from New Haven's unscrupulous public ser-
vants no longer shock me, the motivations for this particular 
maneuver escaped me. Who in their right mind would stage such a 
calculated takeover for what seemed to be a humble position with 
an unimpressive salary at an unimportant organization? 

To get a better sense of what was happening at Citizens 
Television, I called a friend. I knew Zannerre Lewis as a program 
director for the Regional Cultural Plan for Greater New Haven, 
where I worked last summer. However, the astrological chart she'd 
done for me, and her explanation of an eclipse's significance for our 
workplace, revealed another side of her personality. To many area 
fans of the metaphysical, Zannette is known only as Z, the host of 
a crv show called "The 3rd Eye." I came to crv to watch a taping 
of her show, which occupied the important slot opposite "Dawson's 
THE NEW JouRNAL 

Creek" in crv 's lineup. What did CIV hope could steal viewers from 
Joey, Pacey, and Dawson? According to Z, her show is "a metaphys-
ical talk show whose purpose is m give the public information about 
the relationship of energy and matcer as it relates to their journey m 
higher levels of existence." Z appears on Channel 27 discussing cop-
ies ranging from tai chi and yoga to astrological charts to Native 
American and Eastern divination. "[By watching the show,] you'll 
get an understanding of what you need to do to be highly evolved 
as a person or spirit on the planet," claims Z, who is quick ro argue 
that her show is not merely a circus act. "Initially, they just wanted 
me to come on and do readings, but I thought that the community 
needed to see people who are on their path to the third eye. I want-
ed to do the show at a higher level than that of a psychic fair." 

I entered the world of public access out of curiosity. Z, on the 
other hand, was recruited. "I was just finishing up a project at the 
Peabody and I had an opportunity to go-on TV and talk about the 
relationship between the environment and culture. CIV was losing 
its astrology show at the time and Ruben knew that I had also found 
astrologers for the Peabody, so he asked me to consider doing a 
show. They felt that this was an area that the community needed 
FEBRUARY 9· 2001 
info about, so they decided to ask me." Z claims her show is 
needed because much of crv's lineup consists of evangelical 
Christian programming. I had trouble accepting the idea that the 
best counterpoim to the programming of the irrational religious 
right was a "metaphysical talk show." 

As I WANDERED AROUND THE STUDIO AND LISTENED TO THE 
small bits of conversation that drifted my way, it became appar-
ent that not everyone there was motivated by Z's desire for free 
intellectual discourse. John, a fellow camera operator, was a 
friend of the director with nothing else to do that day. The sound 
recorder seemed concerned mainly with his own "fame," using 
the studio's headset system to explain his plans to usurp another 
show's anchorship. Z's guests mainly saw the show as an oppor-
tunity to advertise their services. Ruben himself, unable to talk 
about his own dismissal because of pending legal actions, admits 
that many involved in public access lack the high ideals of Z. 
Some, in fact, see the tiny sound stage as an arena for power. 
"When they're in charge of their TV show," Ruben said, "they 
rule." 

33



**The 3rd Eye**
**Author: Patrick Casry Pitts**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Public access television struggles to meet the standards set by its commercial counterpart. The offices of crv were filled with cheap imitation and kitsch: fake plastic ferns, a portrait of jazz not-so-great Maynard Ferguson. This aesthetic extended to the set. The "ceiling" that would appear on TV consisted of nothing more than a two-by-four. I had to help the crew move a couch from crv's reception area onto the set, thinking as I struggled to maintain my grip that Katie Couric and Matt Lauer probably had permanent seating. "The 3rd Eye" was produced by a team of unpaid volunteers and its director was also its producer, its graphic designer, its art director, and its promotional-refrigerator-magnet assembler.


Just two and a half hours after the taping was scheduled to begin, everything was almost in place. However, a final problem needed to be solved. "Has anyone seen the intern?" the director asked in a harried voice. It seemed that the intern, who was supposed to run camera number two during the taping, had left the studio. And that left only one unoccupied person in the station: myself. I was pulled into the studio, given a thorough introduction to the camera-
"This is the zoom. This is the focus. Don't flip this switch or the camera will fall to the ground and break into a number of small pieces"-and handed a headset. The taping began.


RUNNING A CAMERA was much easier than I expected. The camera doesn't move if you don't want it to and the director was generally easy to please, so I didn't have much to worry about. This gave me time to consider the profoundly metaphysical significance of the production of which I was now a part. To Z, crv and all other forms of public access provide an opportunity for voices that are lacking in the mainstream media. "This is Citizens Television. Anyone who considers themselves a citizen of society should be able to get involved and produce a show .... They should have an alternative to everything that's on the major channels." Ruben shares this grandiose vision of public access, believing that "The 3rd Eye" and other public access shows pose a serious threat to the dominant forms of television and the big media giants. "Public access is the only real line that people have to freedom of expression, freedom of contact with other people, freedom to utilize technology in a way that doesn't reflect a bottom line. It's TV for the community by the community. Public access is a common ground for everyone, regardless of their ideas or beliefs. When a nation stops thinking critically about its experience, you're in trouble. If we don't have a public access outlet, the critical thinking is zero. Critical thinking will make or break our country."


Although Ruben, with 25 years of experience in public access, was an impassioned pitchman for these ideas, I was not convinced.


Ironically, the success of public access is dependent on the very entities that it condemns-the giant cable networks that carry its signals. The station where Ruben now works as operations manager, the Manhattan Neighborhood Network, is dependent for its financial existence upon AOL Time Warner, one of the country's largest and most dominant media giants. While this may pose problems for a station's credibility, it did allow me to understand one of the pleasures of public access television: We were using the tools and financial resources of the cable companies to create something of which they would never dream.


I don't believe that public access will change the world. Still, I found something seductive in the rhetoric used by Z and Ruben. The shows are created by volunteers and aired without concern for market share or advertising revenue, unlike anything in modern commercial television. The same individuality that creates programming uninteresting to all but a select few also makes it unlike anything found on the commercial channels.


**Lying Awake**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 36**

condition can draw one into an altered world, create an obsessive interest in religion and philosophy, and bring about artistic effusions. But, the doctor assures her, there's good news: The growth that causes her seizures is in an excellent position for removal, and once it's dislodged, Sister John will be "as good as new."


This promise of modern medicine is at best a mixed blessing for Sister John. She weighs two distressing options: She can have the growth removed and risk losing her divine visions; or she can forego surgery, knowing that her assurances of God's grace may be the mere symptoms of illness. She responds to the doctor's diagnosis with a simple and heartfelt plea, uttered in the intimate voice of prayer that permeates the novel: "Please, God, take anything, take my life ... but don't take Yourself away from me, don't tell me I haven't known You at all..."


humane, yet simply human, story. Salzman, who considers himself an agnostic, handles Sister John's religious faith in such a tender way that one can't help but feel he is drawing on his own artistic experiences. Indeed, he considers the nature of artistic genius in the novel: An article that the doctor gives Sister John to explain her condition speculates that Dostoevsky, Van Gogh, Tennyson, and Proust all suffered from temporal-lobe epilepsy. Sister John wonders, "If Dostoevsky had been given the option of treatment ... would he have taken it? Should he have?"


Lying Awake also bears a striking connection to one of Salzman's earlier novels, The Soloist. Written nearly ten years ago, the novel describes a cellist's struggle to achieve perfect pitch and is moderately autobiographical-an October article in The New Yorker reported that Salzman entered Yale as a music major but gave



**Title: THE AGONY AND THE ECSTASY**
**Author: Jica Bulman**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
up the cello after he saw Yo-Yo Ma play and 
realized he would never share his passion 
for the instrument. 
Th~ SokJist begins: 
"This morning I read an article suggesting 
that Saint Theresa of Avila, a sixteenth-cen-
tury Spanish mystic noted for her ecstatic 
visions, suffered from a neurological disor-
der known to cause hallucinations." 

So, it appears, Salzman had been 
brooding over Sister John's dilemma long 
before he brought her character into 
being-his protagonist's spiritual crisis 
seems co bear an affinity not only co his 
own musical struggles but also to his Liter-
ary struggles. Lying Awalt~ emerged from 
nearly six years of self-doubt, and Salz.nian 
completed the novel only after retreating to 
a writer's colony, where, as he cold Th~ N~ 
Yorker, "I was in a community of people 
who seemed dedicated to art almost like a 
sacred pursuit. And the irony was not lost 
on me chat I was now living essentially like 
a Carmelite nun." 

Perhaps this proximity of religious and 
artistic yearning underlies Salzman's ability 
to move even the most skeptical of readers. 
To be sure, Salzman periodically stumbles 
into cliches, especially when describing 
Sister John's visions; of one epiphany, he 
writes, "[e)very moment, every breath was 
poetry." And some of his descriptions-
Sister John f.illing "upward into brilliance," 
for example--are too strenuously lyric. 

Perhaps Salzman should not have tried to 
express the inexpressible, for he does much 
bener with yearning than fulfillment, with 
doubt than with certainty. 

But these shortcomings do not signifi-
cantly detract from his spare, elegant novel. 
FEBRUARY 9· 2001 
Salzman makes Sister John's character com-
pelling and her struggle with faith 
poignant, nor sanctimonious. This bal-
anced treatment of the story's protagonist 
finds a formal counterpart in Salzman's 
narrative style: He intersperses a prose plot 
with poetic gestures of prayer, so char read-
ers are ar once a part of Sister John's outside 
world and her innermost rhoughrs. 

The greatest achievements of Lying 
Awak~ are the humility and anemion co 
detail that animate the novel. Saltman 
writes about daily life in the monastery, 
rather chan focusing on extraordinary 
eventS. In fact, it is not the religious 
momentS, in any traditional sense, rhat are 
most touching, but rather the more mun-
dane struggles of women who have chosen 
J co give up "television, radios, newspapers, 
movies, fashion, [and) men" to commune 
with an impalpable God. 

Salzman writes that in "the spiritual 
life, individual success often came at the 
expense of community harmony," and 
rather than gloss over the human emotions 
and relationships of the sisters, he records 
both the secular and the deeply religious 
aspects of life at the monastery. For exam-
ple, the sisters discuss breakfast juices with 
both religious conviction and personal 
preference, and they feel a mix of awe and 
envy when Sister John achieves poetic 
fame. The everyday motions of the sisters 
convince readers not only of their faith, bur 
also their individuality. The~e are nor 
cookie-cuner nuns. 

Sister John's interactions wirh her doc-
tor are also compelling, because Salzman 
sucessfully resists caricaturing either indi-
I !llllt/ Atlll1h'. \\.1rk S,ll:rn,ln 
(·\llrl·d E. Knl..'pl. ~l~('(1 ). pp 
IS.:' 
vidual. The doctor is nor a mere represen-
tative of secular moderniry, nor is Sister 
John a two-dimensional embodiment of 
piety. AJrhough they often speak to each 
ocher on seemingly separate planes of exis-
tence--her "Peace be with you, Doctor" 
receives an empty "Have a great day" in 
response-the smaller momentS of connec-
tion between them reveal Salzman's fine 
characterization and the judiciousness of 
his novel. Near the end of the novel, the 
doctor turns to discard a pair of surgical 
scissors he has used only once, and Sister 
John asks if she can have it for the 
monastery. During her next visit, he gives 
her a box full of scissors. This moment 
could easily become sentimental and con-
trived, but the doctor's comment, "Now 
you and your Sisters won't have to fight 
over that other one," reflects both his pro-
fessionalism and his nervous compassion. 

Ultimately, it is the daily life of the 
monastery and the sisters' interactions with 
the ourside world that impress the reader 
with genuine spirituality. And it is the 
poised balance Salzman maintains between 
faith and science throughout the novel that 
makes this meditation succeed in irs con-
templation of two seemingly irreconcilable 
creeds. 

J~ica Bulman, a junior in Berk~ky 
Co/kg~. is a managing ~ditor of TNJ. 
37 


**Title: ENDNOTE**
**Author: Tatitzna Jitkoff**
**Page number(s): 38**

I don't like doing it. But course packets are expensive these days. I tried getting money the old-fashioned 
-
way, but a part-time job on top of everything else? Who needs the extra stress and who really has the 
time? No, I may not like it, but it's good, fast, honest money. My friends think I'm crazy and a little sick. I 
can't even tell my parents. But it doesn't matter what they all think anyway-it's my body, and I'll do with it 
as I please. So I just lie back, close my eyes, try to relax, and hope it doesn't hun too much. When those twen-
ty-dollar bills get flipped into my hand, it all seems worthwhile. 

.. 
Everybody wants it, everybody needs it, but how fur would you go for an easy buck? What services would 
you be willing co provide? And are you an 18-28-year-old non-smoker available for a 45-minute perception test in 
exchange for eight dollars? I am, and I'll gladly do more than that. You can make a career out of being a science 
whore if you play your cards right. 

Sure, lots of people dabble in the small stuff: the periodic psych freebie, the five-dollar survey, maybe a ten-
dollar dexterity test. You run into the occasional MRI that pays a cool $50, but most people keep it simple. There 
are, however, a few of us out there--the estrogen-injecting, electrically-shocked, drug-testing, egg-donating few-
who are willing 'tO risk permanent bodily harm in exchange for some hard cash. The more dangerous, the more 
scarring, the better the pay. 

It took 20 minutes to get there by bus. All the best gigs are usually some distance from campus. They like 
to call you in twice, the first time to size you up, test you, see if you are what they're looking for. You get $30 just 
for that. Then you come back a week later for the actual experiment. 

On my return visit, I was nervous, still f.Urly new to the business. I walked into the office, my palms sweat-
ing, smiling nervously. The man sitting inside seemed nice enough. I was lucky; you can run into some pretty creepy 
people at these things, but this guy was even kind of cute. I settled down to read the contract. I was there to test 
the "effects ofMGLUIUAGONIST (LY354740) vs. Placebo in the Fear Potentiated Startle Paradigm." I would be test-
ing an anti-anxiety drug to see how it affected my reflexes and emotions. 

The experiment began with two large white pills, then two more an hour later. I was left in a cubicle to allow 
the drug to sink in. In the cubicle next to me a man was testing what I understood to be a controlled form of an 
otherwise-illicit substance. I spent the next two hours doing homework and listening to him mumble to himself. 
A doctor came in every half-hour to ask how he felt and if he heard the voices of God or the Devil. By the time I 
left, no divine beings had spoken to him, but he had apparently held a moving conversation with his left foot. 

Even after the drugs in my system had made me a bit dizzy and I had been assaulted by a nurse thirsty for eight 
tubes of blood, I remained f.Urly confident about the experiment ... until the administrator started taping wires to 
my face and wrist. She stuck rwo detectors just below my left eye co record my reflex response to electric shocks 
administered to the inside of my left wrist by two wires. I was guaranteed at least one and up to three shocks described 
by past subjects as "very unpleasant." The administrator assured me that it wouldn't be any worse than a shock from an 
electrical outlet. If this was meant to calm me, it didn't. All I could think about was the last time I was shocked by an 
electrical outlet-my arm tingled for two hours and it took another rwo to get the hair on my arms to lie flat again. 

Selling your body to science can be a scary business. You don't always know exactly what you're getting yourself into, 
and you can unwittingly get sucked into some pretty serious stuff. You draw the line--"That's as far as I'll go" -then 
you slowly cross it and redraw it over and over again. Before you know it, you're bald, numb, or going through tempo-
rary menopause at age 21. For LY354740 they subjected me to pregnancy tests for three months; it had been deemed a safe 
enough drug for me, but whether it could give gills to my unborn children is yet to be determined. You can't let things like 
that bother you too much, though. You survive on gut instinct. If a situation seems dangerous, you stay away from it. 
It's when you let them push you around that you can get into trouble. But if you don't mind shon bouts of discomfon 
and nausea, pee into this cup and initial pages 3-7. You'll be compensated upon completion of the experiment. 

Tatitzna ]itkoff, a sophomore in Calhoun College, is designer o/TNJ. 
THE NEW JoURNAL 


**Title: TETELMAN FELLOWSHIP**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 39**

Science in the New Millennium - 2001 Tercentennial Tete/man Lectures 
February 14, 15, 16 
February 14 
February 15 
February 16 
Professor Robert Blandford 
Robert Blandford is the Richard Chase Tolman Professor 
of Theoretical Astrophysics at the California Institute of 
Technology 
The Space Odyssey 
The capability to operate telescopes from space has brought 
about a revolution in our view of the universe. The Universe 
has consequently become a smaller and more intimate place, 
replete with exotic environments that stretch our imagination. 
The Master of Jonathan Edwards College invites you to attend the 
Tetelman Lecture 
2001: The Space Odyssey 
5: 15 pm Wednesday 
Davies Auditorium, Becton Center 
The Master's Tea 
A Conversation with Robert Blandford 
4:00 pm Thursday 
The Master's House, 70 High Street 
The Physics Club 
New Horizons in Black Hole Astrophysics 
4:00pm 
57 Sloane Physics Lab 
Preceded at 3:30 by coffee, Sloane Lounge 
3rd floor SPL




The "Original" Copy Center 
1971 
1973 
1978 
59 Broadway 
11 Broadway 
CEL.EBRA TING 30 YEARS 
1971-2001 
BANNERS 
BINDING 
BUSINESS CARDS 
COLOR 
COPIES 
CASSETTE COPYING 
DESKTOP 
PUBLISHING 
DIGITAL 
B/W&COLOR 
OUTPUT 
FAXING 
HIGHLIGHT COLOR 
Family Owned and Operated 
262 ELM STREET at Broadway 
NEW HAVEN, CT 06511 
203 562.9723 
1.888. TYCOCOPY 
EMAIL: tycocopy@snet.net 
www.tycocopy.com 
LAMINATING 
LARGE 
DOCUMENT COPYING 
LARGE FORMAT COWR 
MAILING 
MOUNTING 
OFFSET 
PRINTING 
PASSPORT PHOTOS 
RESUMES 
RUBBER STAMPS 
XEROX 
COPYING 
..

