Publication date: October 20, 1968
Volume: two
Issue number: two

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors: Jeffrey Pollock, Jonathan Lear
- Business Manager: Jean-Pierre Jordan
- Executive Editor: Herman Hong
- Designer: Bruce Mcintosh
- Associate Editor: Lawrence Lasker
- Advertising Manager: K. Elia Georgiades
- Photography Editor: Peter M. C. Choy
- Copy Editor: Paul Bennett
- Circulation Manager: John Adams
- Contributing Editors: Jonathan Aaron, Susan Holahan, Mopsy S. Kennedy, Michael Lerner, Leo Ribuffo, Derek Shearer
- Staff: Joseph Fincke, Barry Greenberg, Ka Grossman, Rodger Kamenetz, Barnes Rubin, Steve Thomas, Nancy Vickers, Warner Wada, Michael Waltuch


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

Girlsnow - Jonathan Lear
Heroes, hawks and hacks - James Green
Young poets - Susan Holahan
Biafran genocide - Richard N. Henderson
Letters


**Title: In Comment: the real Clark Kent sits down, Cream forgets the sounds of silence, and an illusion is an illusion in an illusion.**
**Author:  Don Cohen**
**Page number(s): 2**

Peiffer
During most of September the site of the 
old Yale Co-op-a room above Gnomon 
Copy Service-was cluttered with military 
gear. M-1 and automatic rifles, steel hel-
mets, grenades, knives and ammunition 
packs lay piled on a wooden table. On the 
floor nearby, a US Army tripod-mounted 
machine gun pointed vaguely in the direc-
tion of Morse College. 

The weapons were intended for use in 
the Second American Revolution, whose 
early history is chronicled in Jules Peiffer's 
new play, God Bless, the Yale Repertory 
Theatre's current production. 

In a corner of the room, temporarily 
used for rehearsal, stood Peiffer, slouching 
a bit, his broad face slightly in advance of 
the rest of his body. After glancing around 
the room with worried eyes (his eyes, it 
seems, are always worried), he went over 
to Harold Stone, the director, to find out 
how much time we would have before the 
beginning of rehearsal. 

A ring of wispy, light-brown hair keeps 
Peiffer's baldness at bay. He walks with 
small, shuffling steps, as if testing the floor 
for a spot solid enough to support his foot. 
He seems to view chairs, tables and objects 
in general with suspicion and keeps his 
distance. Not surprisingly, this shrewd 
critic of our world does not feel quite at 
home in it. 

Inevitably, he invites comparison with 
his own cartoon creatures. Despite his suc-
cess and his obvious sense of his worth, 
Peiffer bears a strong family resemblance 
to Bernard Mergendeiler, the hero of many 
of his cartoons. Bernard, born into a world 
less sensitive than he, cowers under a con-
tinual rain of social slings and arrows. 
People look through him at Parties. Girl-
friends break up with him after he has 
bared his soul to them. 

Peiffer's success has no doubt relieved 
him of some of the burdens of being a 
Mergendeiler, but he still shares Bernard's 
basic dilemma. Both fight the same battle: 
Bernard and Peiffer in this corner, the rest 
of the world in that. When we went down 
to Hungry Charley's for lunch, Peiffer 
ordered a ham and cheese sandwich and 
something about the way he examined it, 
lifting up a corner and peeking in, was very 
Bernardish, as if the sandwich presented a 
possible threat or challenge. 

Peiffer's cartoons first appeared in the 
Village Voice-on the condition that they 
not pay him anything. They now appear 
in dozens of newspapers and magazines 
here and abroad and are, needless to say, 
very well paid indeed. Crawling Arnold, 
a one-act play, was performed at Spoleto 
·n the Festival of Two Worlds in 1961; 
eiffer's animated cartoon, Munro, won 
Academy Award; he has published a 
cessful novel, and his first full-length 
play, Little Murders, ran on Broadway 
(though not for long). God Bless will open 
in London shortly after its New Haven pre-
miere and is scheduled for performance 
in Los Angeles later in the season. 

Peiffer is attracted by forms other than 
cartoon, which he considers somewhat 
limited in scope. He has written columns, 
but not many because he finds them "such 
hard work." He would like to write novels 
but, again, this kind of writing is difficult 
for him. "Two years of sheer agony" is 
his description of the time spent on Harry, 
the Rat with Women, his only published 
novel. Two years of work, he decided, was 
a lot of effort for 181 pages. 

Cartooning and playwriting do come 
easily for him, but he was hesitant about 
writing plays because he believes a play 
must be bad to succeed in New York. 
"I knew if I ever wrote one that was any 
good, it would close right away," he ex-
plained. "That's what happened to Little 
Murders; that's what will probably happen 
to God Bless." 

Peiffer insists that his method of writing 
a play is entirely distinct from that of 
drawing cartoons, but the characters in 
God Bless are obviously Peiffer people, 
related to the men, women and children 
who talk their way through his cartoons. 
Like them, the characters in the play love 
to give advice and to justify their existence 
to themselves and to the world at large. 

Peiffer is obviously quite pleased with 
his play. He has always wanted to write a 
political play and wrote the first draft of 
God Bless last February under the inspira-
tion (if that is the correct word) of the 
politics of the Great Society. His own po-
litical philosophy might be described as 
optimistic cynicism; he believes the coun-
try must go through a period of right-wing 
repression before true social reform can 
be achieved. But he does feel that the 
country will survive and reform will come. 

Newsweek once described Peiffer as "a 
Clark Kent who takes off his clothes and 
is still Clark Kent." He is the total unhero, 
the odd-man-out whose isolation gives him 
understanding. As the man least able to 
leap tall buildings at a single bound-least 
able, in fact, to leap anything in any num-
ber of bounds-Feiffer is more aware than 
the rest of us of the dangers lurking in the 
world and more willing to point them out. 


**Title: Cream**
**Author: Marty Friedman**

Silence is as important to music as blank 
space is to a sketch; to know when not to 
play is as important as to know when to 
play. Last Friday night at the Arena, the 
Cream forgot-or at least ignored-the 
value of being quiet sometimes. 

Eric Clapton used to sing with his guitar 
(buy the album he and John Mayall did 
together). He used to attack the music 
savagely, with contrasts. Like dark and 
light lines in a drawing, he used loud and 
soft, sharp, and sweet notes. Snatches of 
guitar on the three Cream albums show 
that Clapton can still discriminate, but 
his solo in "Spoonful'' Friday night was 
solid sound without breathing, every note 
on beat in an endless diarrhea. And Ginger 
Baker's drum solo in "Toad" suffered the 
same ailment: an endless rolling and shape-
less emission of sound. There was little 
dialogue between the three musicians, just 
three people belting out noise at once, or, 
for variation, in solo. But there were of 
course standing ovations for Ginger after 
"Toad,'' for Eric after "Spoonful" and for 
Jack Bruce after his harmonica solo in 
"Traintime." 

Perhaps it takes too much energy to 
make good music every night, or perhaps 
the Cream don't care what they play-
you'd get bored too, playing "Toad" before 
shrieking kids for two years. Perhaps I 
was expecting too much after their excel-
lent Wheels of Fire album-in the studio, 
not live. With the six dollars I spent to go 
to the concert, I should have bought the 
new Jimi Hendrix album. 


**Title: Lylah**
**Page number(s): 2, 18**

Robert Aldrich's career in film-making has 
been faithfully inconsistent. For example, 
only Aldrich could blast show business in 
general and Hollywood in particular so 
passionately in The Big Knife (1955) and 
Whatever Happened to Baby Jane (1963), 
while cranking out banal and efficient 
mediocrities (Sod om and Gomorrah, Four 
for Texas) with the apparent impervious-
ness of a John Sturges or a Richard 
Brooks. 

In recent years, Aldrich bas seemingly 
settled down into a comfortable com-
mercial groove with The Flight of the 
Phoenix and The Dirty Dozen, films in 
which frequent lapses in taste and artistic 
judgment are concealed by excellent en-
semble acting and shrewd hucksterism. 

Aldrich was clever enough to contract 
15 per cent of Dozen's huge gross, and he 
used these riches to gain control of what 
Orson Welles called "the biggest toy train 
set in the world"-his own studio. 

The Killing of Sister George, first pro-
duct of Aldrich Studios, is now in the 
final stages of editing. Aldrich's press agent 
assures us that not only will Sister George 
set Hollywood on its ear, but that it will 
make The Fox look like Mary Poppins. In 
between Dirty Dozen and Sister George, 
while Aldrich Studios was being formed, 
The Legend of Lylah Clare was filmed to 
complete Aldrich's M-G-M commit-
ments. Lylah, then, is to all outward ap-
pearances a lame-duck production, a 
contract-filler. It is also the most exciting 
new American film I have seen this year. 

I recommend that the film be seen at 
least twice or not at all. Obviously, the lat-
ter course has been overwhelmingly the 
most popular. Lylalt Clare expired quickly 
on the New York circuit after three weeks, 
shunned even by the 42nd Street vultures 
who pick the bones of recent failures. In 
Los Angeles it was an immediate flop at 
Grauman's Chinese. And it seemed oddly 
appropriate that Loew's 47th was razed by 
wrecking balls the day after Lylah closed. 

For Aldrich has reversed field on us again. 
This visual vaudevillean has shifted gears 
from the dependable hucksterism of Dirty 
Dozen to one of the most intentionally 
anti-commercial films ever to come out of 
Hollywood. Aldrich has chosen to launch a 
ruthless attack on the sensibilities of his 
once-sacrosanct audience. 

The original intent of the screenplay 
seems clear and simple. Lewis Zarkin 
(Peter Finch), a movie director, has been 
in "retirement" for 20 years after the mys-
terious death of his Galatea, Lylah Clare 
(Kim Novak). He attempts a comeback by 
using a look-alike, Elsa Brinkman (also 
Novak), to launch the bio-pic Lylah Clare 
-Film Star. The girl gradually assumes 
her screen role in real life, and the events 
of the past reveal themselves by repeating 
themselves. 


**Title: Yale has waited for girls too long**
**Author: Jonathan Lear**
**Page number(s): 3**

Debbie Brewster, a brown-haired Vassar 
freshman, thinks Yale should be coed. 
"Especially since Vassar had to go and 
shoot those poor Yalies down." She would 
like to see the day when she could enroll 
at Yale; and, as a matter of fact, there are 
a lot of people who would like to see that 
day come quickly. 

Two weeks ago, a militant minority of 
the Student Advisory Board printed a wall 
poster suggesting the immediate construc-
tion of a geodesic dome over the Cross 
Campus and inviting 500 girls to camp 
out there a Ia Resurrection City. 

A Coeducation Now Committee, pres-
ently in embryonic form, is planning to 
have students vacate certain entryways of 
the residential colleges. Girls will take their 
places ... for a week or two. 

David Kaetz, one of Yale's resident 
good people, is starting a collection for 
funds to buy doors for all the stalls in the 
bathrooms-this being in his mind the 
only obstacle to immediate and complete 
coeducation. 

One man who sees a few other prob-
lems besides doors to bathroom stalls, but 
is somewhat less convinced of the advan-
tages of girls camping out on the Cross 
Campus, is the deciding force in bringing 
girls to Yale: Debbie Brewster's father. 

Kingman Brewster wants undergraduate 
women in the Yale community. "The social 
and moral value of having two thousand 
college girls of outstanding intellectual and 
personal qualification resident in New 
Haven is apparent. Their absence has, in 
the eyes of the faculty and University 
Council Committee on Yale College, put 
Yale at a serious disadvantage both socially 
and morally. The crash week-end, the de-
grading form of social activity known as 
the Mixer, have been distasteful. They are 
a most unhealthy and unnatural part of 
the four Yale undergraduate years. Such 
an environment is not conducive to the 
development of a considerate, mature and 
normal relationship among the sexes." 

Yes, Brewster does want undergraduate 
women at Yale. The two questions are how 
and when. The whole push for women at 
Yale centers on these; and Brewster, im-
bued with the need to listen to student 
opinion, seriously wants a meaningful-
but needless to say responsible-sign of 
what students want. 

Should Yale just admit women into a 
completely coeducational set-up, or should 
it build a separate female coordinate col-
lege? If the trend of other educational 
institutions is an influencing factor, then 
Yale should aim towards coeducation. The 
historic reasons behind coordinate educa-
tion, with a separate administration, fac-
ulty and board of trustees-which spring 
from the belief that men's education is an 
elitist luxury not in keeping with women's 
needs-are dead, or at least in death 
throes. Coordinate institutions such as 
Harvard and Radcliffe or Brown and Pem-
broke are moving toward coeducation. 

Radcliffe women, for example, are taught 
by Harvard faculty, attend Harvard 
courses and receive Harvard degrees. Rad-
cliffe remains coordinate, however, with 
its own trustees, administration, endow-
ment and admissions policy. 

Stanford has gone all the way. Three 
years ago Stanford experimented with a 
coed dormitory.lt was such a success that 
now over 25% of Stanford students live 
in coed houses. It all began when David 
Harris, now Joan Baez's husband but then 
student body president, decided coed 
living was the only healthy way for people 
to get to know each other. Joseph Katz, a 
professor of psychology at Stanford, be-
lieves that the situation prevents over-
idealization of the opposite sex and leads 
to healthy relationships, ultimately to bet-
ter marriages. Katz also speaks of an "in-
cest effect"-residents of the same house 
treat each other as brothers and sisters, 
with a resulting moratorium on casual 
sex. A slight variation of the don't-seduce-
a-girl-Saturday-night-with-whom-you-
have-to-eat-breakfast-Sunday-morning 
rule. The houses usually focus around a 
theme--<:ommunity development or 
French literature, for example. Girls are 
delighted to talk about things other than 
clothes and dates, and boys are delighted 
to listen. The less attractive girls, who 
would take a two-hour bus ride from Vas-
sar to stand in a comer at a Yale mixer, 
interact daily with boys and can be judged 
as whole people, not just potential sex 
machines. 

Brewster understands this trend toward 
coeducation, and his thinking has moved 
quite a distance since he dreamed of Vassar 
a mile or two away. Hopefully he's ready 
to keep moving. 

He presently favors a "coordinate" edu-
cation developed along coeducational 
lines: he wants two separate administra-
tions but one faculty, and says he's flexible 
about the rest. Brewster feels he could 
attract a "better and more interesting" 
person as president of a coordinate college 
for women than as just another member 
of the Yale administration hierarchy. 

But some people disagree. "The separate 
women's administration at Brown," are-
cent Pembroke graduate noted, "only 
attracts the around-forty unmarried career 
woman who is unsure of her own place in 
a male-oriented society. She passes on this 
sense of insecurity to her students; the 
result is a Jot of uptight women within the 
University. The bad parts of my experience 
at Brown had to do with that which was 
particularly Pembroke." 

But women do have special problems 
and needs, Brewster believes, and a sep-
arate administration might be the best way 
to deal with them. "I feel that it is ridicu-
lous to think of women as just child-
bearing men," he says. 

Brewster sees the coordinate arrange-
ment as a chance to be creative, to try 
new methods of education. This innovative 
urge is part of Brewster's sincere desire to 
offer the best in undergraduate education 
for women at Yale. 

"I can't avoid feeling that the introduc-
tion of 1500 women should be used as an 
occasion for experimentation in Yale Col-
lege." He feels that coed residential 
colleges are possible under his plan for 
coordinate education, and can be consid-
ered separately from the coed-coordinate 
issue. 

But there are those who are not con-
vinced that Brewster's plans are innovative 
at all. R. Inslee Clark, dean of undergradu-
ate admissions, feels coordinate education 
is a backward step: "If we go coordinate, 
that only means that in the next ten or 
twenty years we will want to go coed. 
We should set up an institution that is 
forward looking for the next thirty or forty 
years, and not sometime later regret we 
tied ourselves down." 

The coordinate system at Brown and 
Pembroke has in the past few years experi-
enced such difficulties with the transition 
towards coeducation. The coordinate 
women's institution has undergone a series 
of identity crises, fighting to retain a dis-
tinct status within the University but only 
ending up holding itself back. Two years 
ago, on the occasion of Pembroke's 75th 
anniversary, the Brown Daily Herald 
declared the death of Pembroke as a separ-
ate institution, and little has been said since 
in defense of the coordinate system save 
some vague don't-let-go cries for tradition. 

But the underlying factor in any deci-
sion about girls at Yale, as Brewster well 
knows, is money. Any idea has to be sold 
to rich alumni or a very rich alumnus, and 
this is probably a strong influence in push-
ing Brewster towards coordinate educa-
tion. It is, he reasons, easier to sell the so-
and-so College for Women than to raise 
money for simply absorbing girls into Yale. 

And the chances of attracting more capi-
tal, he continues, will be greater if the 
coodinate trusteeship is not just a bipro-
duct of the Yale Corporation: "two teller 
windows instead of one." 

Yale can, of course, make certain com-
promises to a donor's wishes, but it should 
never be caught accepting money on con-
ditions that violate faculty and student 
opinion. Th1s has been a rule that Brewster 
has adhered to in the past; there is no 
reason why he should not follow it with 
the issue of coeducation vs. coordinate 
education. 



**Yale's Coeducation Debate**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
4 I The New J ournall October 20, 1968 
The financial problems, alas, directly 
influence the speed with which Yale can 
admit women. Brewster expects the $50 
million he wants or the $30 million he'll 
settle for to come from a source that 
would not normally donate to any other 
function of the University. He does not 
want Yale to be subject to a charge of 
"taking away" money from areas such as 
bio-medical research to get women to Yale. 
"I try to avoid thinking of priorities," says 
Brewster. "We ought to be able to do this 
without downgrading the other needs." 

One result of this stance is his avoiding 
setting up priorities which recognize the 
urgency of bringing women to Yale. 
Attempting to evade the question of 
time, Yale overlooks perhaps its biggest 
mistake: Yale has waited too long. Now 
only a radical move will keep it from being 
behind the times. Vassar, Wesleyan, Wil-
liams, even Bennington, can be under-
stood if not dismissed. But Princeton? 
The Princeton Report, a 50-page de-
tailed document delving into every aspect 
of education of women at Princeton, de-
cided in favor of immediate coeducation. 
This report, which Brewster admits is rele-
vant, with a few minor exceptions, for 
Yale, finds that coeducation is less expen-
sive and generally more viable than coordi-
nate education. 

Why wasn't the Princeton Report the 
Yale Report? The intended Vassar merger 
is a weak answer. With Dartmouth the 
only bedfellow left, questions of urgency 
cannot be passed off. Yale is behind, and 
unless it moves it will suffer. 

Part of Yale's institutional pride is its 
insistence on doing things "right." There is 
perhaps nothing wrong with doing things 
right, unless "right" is not a little like the 
arrogance that turned Vassar off. At this 
point, "right" certainly does not mean halt-
ingly, conservatively or with the fear of 
not doing things right. 

Brewster understands student demands 
for coeducation but is a bit skeptical of 
the students' sense of urgency concerning 
their social lives. This skepticism towards 
the students' sense of urgency, towards 
their desire for an improved New Haven 
social scene, ignores the sick and unhealthy 
environment to which a Yale student is 
subjected. To pass off the demands of 
urgency as self-interest alone ignores the 
reality of the conditions that exist and their 
effect on the student body. But the question 
of urgency transcends just the unnatural 
living conditions. 

Yale has systematically ignored the 
n~ed to educate women. "Yale cannot 
serve her underlying purpose or the nation 
by not educating women," says Trumbull 
Master Ronald Dworkin. The horrifying 
Jack of women's educational opportunities 
on a national level only increases the de-
mand on Yale to act. 

"Nice as it would be to move slowly, 
the problem of educating women is too 
urgent," says Dworkin. "I am in favor of 
something of a crash program-admitting 
women immediately." To this end, Dwor-
kin advocates doing with Jess than ideal 
physical needs, if it means that girls could 
come to Yale now, in a coed arrangement. 

That Yale's duty to educate women does 
not seem as compelling or urgent as other 
arguments betrays an Old Blue attitude 
toward women: they are somewhat differ-
ent; you know, not quite as good. This 
attitude also affects the decision to go coed 
or coordinate. 

"Coordinate education suggests a separ-
ation, and presumably you create separate 
things when there is something unique 
about the two things," says Inslee Clark. 
"To my mind there is nothing about living, 
sharing ideas, and learning that is unique 
or better for one group than for the other." 

Clark agrees with Dworkin that it is too 
late to wait and that women must be ad-
mitted to Yale immediately. 

More compelling, but no more impor-
tant than the other reasons, is the fact that 
the quality of Yale students is going to 
suffer due to Brewster's hesitancy. Right 
now the students who turn Yale down to 
go somewhere else are among the students 
Yale most wants. They almost all go to 
coeducational institutions. As the entire 
admissions staff well knows, the bright 
young student is no longer buying the 
men's school idea. They only have to read 
the paper to know that if they can't live in 
what they consider a natural environment 
at Yale, there are other fine institutions 
where they can. The Princeton Report 
admits that only about half of a class is 
considered "top rate". The other half are 
not quite as good but are needed to fill the 
class out. There is no doubt this situation 
exists at Yale. Inslee Clark has met pri-
vately with both the faculty and the ad-
ministration and warned them of the 
immediate drop in the quality of students 
at Yale if it does not go coed immediately. 

Brewster is quite aware that the crisis is 
nigh. With the donation in hand, Brewster 
would probably be willing to take some 
bold steps; without it, he is more cautious. 
Yet, a valid argument suggests that if Yale 
plunged into coeducation right now it 
could convince donors of the sincerity of 
its desire to improve women's education. 

"If we admitted women immediately," 
says Ronald Dworkin, "we would get the 
best women in the United States. We would 
get girls of an intellectual quality that 
would make plain our reasons." 

Surprisingly, the Princeton Report con-
cluded that alumni giving would increase 
if coeducation were adopted. First, the 
younger alumni are generally in favor of 
coeducation and are beginning to enter 
income brackets where they could make 
sizeable donations. Second, increasing 
the undergraduate body by 25 or 40 per 
cent necessarily increases the number of 
future donors. Finally, any major issue 
on campus tends to focus almuni attention 
and increases their financial support of 
the University. 

But these arguments, which can be ban-
tered back and forth, pale next to the 
question of attitude. To rush forward does 
not necessarily mean to be haphazard. 
Yale must rush if it is not going. to fall 
seriously behind. This move should be ap-
proached not with a fear of rushing but 
with the optimism of making Yale a for-
ward-looking educational institution. To 
hesitate rather than make a wrong move is 
the old mixer attitude: the boy is out to im-
press the girl rather than meet her. 

"You can't build a perfect institution 
for women before they come," says lnslee 
Clark. "You have to let them come and 
then adjust." Yale doesn't need another 
monument or inflexible institution. If 
Brewster is committed to flexibility, rather 
than fear of future problems, he should 
act-and then meet the problems that will 
arise with a confident enthusiasm. 

Now, how could women be admitted to 
Yale next year? Easy. Classroom space and 
faculty-student ratio are the least compli-
cated problems. The scheduling would be 
tighter at first, but there is plenty of unused 
classroom space at Yale. The Princeton 
Report studied the increases in faculty and 
faculty salaries that would be necessary if 
1000 women were admitted to Princeton. 
They assumed that the faculty-student 
ratio would be maintained and that the 
quality of teaching would remain the same. 
They also assumed that women would 
make approximately the same course selec-
tions as men, a variable open to some 
question but valid enough to work with. 

The increase in needed finances is sur-
prisingly small, the Princeton Report 
found. One reason is that in a large lecture 
course, the women students could be 
added without affecting the class or the 
lecturer. The greatest increase in faculty 
would be needed on lower levels--more 
graduate student instructors to lead discus-
sion sections. But these are the lowest paid 
members of the faculty. The total cost of 
increase in faculty that would be needed 
at all levels to add I 000 women, the 
Princeton Report estimates, would be 
$577,932. Not bad compared with $50 
million. 


51 The New Journal I October 20, 1968 
And Yale could absorb women much 
more easily than Princeton. Because Yale 
is more of a university, there are many de-
partments and faculty that do not reach 
nearly as many students as they could. This 
is true of any university that wants to 
"push the forefronts of knowledge"; some 
administrators call it inefficiency, but 
Brewster rightly cringes at the word. In 
any case, admitting girls to a university 
like Yale would be much easier than at a 
college like Williams, Wesleyan, Vassar, 
Bennington or a small university like 
Princeton-and all of them are managing 
to muddle through. 

Residence problems provide the biggest 
ruQ, but they too can be overcome. Even-
tually more residential colleges will have 
to be built, and men like Rev. Coffin, 
Dworkin, Clark, and R. W. B. Lewis hope 
that the colleges will be on a coed basis. 
"I'd like to see Calhoun thirty per cent 
girls," says Master J.,ewis. "I would almost 
say to the administration, 'aw c'mon and 
take five entryways in Calhoun right 
away.'" 

In the existing colleges the community 
bathrooms would probably make it incon-
venient to have each entryway coed, but 
there is no obstacle to having certain 
entryways of the same college for men 
and others for women. If future colleges 
were built with private bathrooms for each 
suite as is done at Harvard, then even this 
problem would be eliminated. 

Since residential colleges cannot be 
built by next September, there must be 
some means of freeing space in the exist-
ing colleges. The easiest way would be to 
make all triple suites into quads. (In the 
present triple there are two bedrooms and 
a livingroom; instead of having just one 
double bedroom put another bed in the 
single bedroom. Voila.) 

There are approximately 400 triples in 
Yale College. Assuming Yale would admit 
the traditional number of men, a rule not 
quite as sacred as some would have it, then 
there would be 400 places open to women 
in September. Off-campus housing could 
be encouraged for the cause, which would 
also add to the number of women 
admitted. 

If Brewster is hesitant about simply 
admitting 400 women to Yale next year, 
he could instead accept the same number 
of transfers from colleges such as Vassar, 
Smith, Connecticut College, Sarah Law-
rence and Wellesley. These women would 
be here for a year-a modified junior year 
abroad-and would then return and get 
their degrees at their own colleges. If Yale 
did this for a year or two, it would learn 
about the various problems encountered in 
providing excellent women's education. 
By 1970 or 1971, after a couple of years of 
educating women on campus, Yale could 
make the step to coeducation with more 
confidence. 

Looking back at the Vassar-Yale report, 
now only a year old, one sees the anachro-
nisms of a coordinate institution-with its 
own faculty, located possibly miles away 
from Yale in its own very separate kitchen 
-as overwhelming. Yale cannot afford to 
step backwards into the future by creating 
a new institution that is dated, rigid and 
behind the times before it is born. Yale 
must become coeducational. And it must 
do it now. Or, at least, by next year. 


**Heroes, Hawks, and Hacks: In Which New Haven's White Knights Battle Political Untouchables to Change the System and Wonder if the System Just Might Change Them**
**Author: James Green**
**Page number(s): 6**

/ 
Heroes, hawks, and hacks: in which 
New Raven's white knights battle political 
untouchables to change the system and 
wonder if the system just might change them 
by James Green 
"Reformers," reflected George Washington 
Plunkett, that durable sage of Tammany 
Hall, "were only mornin' glories-looked 
lovely in the mornin' and withered up in 
short time, while the regular machines 
went on tlourishin' forever, like fine oaks." 

Few can deny the historical accuracy of 
Plunkett's remark. Reformers from the 
days of the mugwumps to the "club" 
Democrats of Manhattan have tradition-
ally vented their spleen, usually to the 
discomfort if not the dislocation of the reg-
ulars, and then departed from the scene. 

New Haven has never really had a 
genuine reform movement. The Yankees, 
who were pushed to the sidelines and later 
to the suburbs by "the great unwashed," 
did not return to challenge the political 
power of the ethnic groups. Apparently 
the old stock did not suffer from status 
anxiety when it lost control of the political 
parties to the likes of Davey Fitzgerald 
and the Ullman brothers-the WASPs 
still controlled the law firms, school 
boards, banks and everything else that 
really mattered in New Haven. With the 
exception of a brief flurry of reform 
activity connected with the campaigns of 
Adlai Stevenson and Richard Lee in the 
early fifties, the only real challenge to the 
local party organization was launched this 
year when the McCarthy campaign struck 
New Haven with rather surprising force. 

The entire slate of delegates pledged 
to McCarthy was elected in the April 
primary, and in the next week the 
embryonic Reform Democratic Movement 
(RDM) succeeded in placing eight of its 
members on the Democratic Town Com-
mittee. But in spite of these stunning 
victories by the McCarthyites, the G. W. 
Plunkett of New Haven was sanguine. 

"This is a thing that will pass," mused 
Arthur Barbieri. "In the meantime it is 
my job as town chairman to make sure 
that everyone gets a fair shake." There-
formers have other ideas; they fully 
intend to remain active in New Haven 
and within a few years to win control of 
the Democratic Party from the man they 
call King Arthur. 

The reformers have no illusions about 
the enormity of their task; they admit it will 
be difficult to hold the support they woo 
on the war issue in April and to expand 
their voting base among blacks and 
working-class whites. During the summer 
Irv Stolberg, then a reform candidate for 
the State Senate, predicted that the success 
of the RDM would depend to a great 
degree on the outcome of the primary 
challenges to the organization in 
September. 

The insurgents had considerable 
difficulties with their primary campaigns 
this fall. Most of the student canvassers 
were still on vacation, and those who 
spent the summer in New Haven were "on 
an emotional down" after the events in 
Chica~o. Stolberg reluctantly bowed out 
of his somewhat symbolic race against 
State Senate majority leader Ed Marcus, 
and on primary day all three of the RDM 
candidates for State Assembly lost to 
organization incumbents. The Reform 
Democrats will now concentrate on 
Senator Abraham Ribicoff's campaign for 
re-election instead of a fourth-party effort 
and act as a left-of-center interest group 
in New Haven politics until the next 
elections. 

James Green, a third-year graduate student 
in American History, is currently prepar-
ing a dissertation on American radicalism 
in the early twentieth century. 

The September primaries were not an 
unmitigated disaster for the reformers. In 
the 11 Oth Assembly District Rich Norling, 
a uniquely practical student of political 
science in the Yale Graduate School, lost 
to the incumbent by the agonizing margin 
of five votes. This contest between a young 
reformer and a gnarled regular illustrated 
with remarkable clarity the challenges that 
the RDM faces. 

First of all, the hard-fought campaign 
for the 11 Oth showed the reformers that 
they face an old-time machine which is 
still alive and kicking. Norling lost the 
Thirteenth Ward, a working-class area 
with a sizeable Polish enclave, by a margin 
of almost two to one, because the organi-
zation "got their people out." The old 
politics which the reformers scorn was 
perfectly symbolized in the Thirteenth. 
Across the street from the polling place at 
St. Stanislaus School, the proprietor of a 
Polish meat market proudly displayed a 
picture of the incumbent in his window. 
Attached was a large sign in. royal blue 
letters which read: "Vote for your friend, 
Ed Gudelski." 

The large ethnic vote for the machine 
in the Thirteenth Ward did not surprise 
the reformers. What disturbed them most 
was their inability to get out the "friendly" 
vote. On primary day ROM workers noted 
that a "substantial" number of voters who 
had supported the McCarthy slate in 
April simply did not come out to vote for 
the ROM in September. This problem can 
be explained in part by the lack of student 
canvassers and by the apathetic or "dazed" 
attitude of many of the voters who bad 
supported the McCarthy-Reform slate in 
the spring. 

The long-term problem of voter tran-
siency reared its ugly head in the 
September skirmishness. Much of the 
McCarthy support from the April cam-
. paign had scattered over the summer. The 
RDM draws most of its voting support, 
not to mention its leadership, from the 
ranks of the young professionals-"Yale 
people and other transients," as one 
organization politician put it. "The only 
stable base of support we have," com-
plained one ROM committeeman," is a 
group of lovely old ladies who seemed to 
have been weaned on the politics of 
Horace Greeley." In order to keep pace 
with their highly mobile constituency, the 
reformers must spend an inordinate 
amount of time registering new voters, 
circulating nominating petitions, battling 
with the registrar of voters, publicizing 
meetings and canvassing voters. 

However, the rewards of bringing the 
growing professional-academic group into 
local politics can be substantial, as the 
results of the September primary in the 
heavily student Twenty-First Ward indi-
cated: Norling carried it by a margin of 
138 to 11. The recruitment of this new 
professional-academic group has, in effect, 
made the reform movement in New 
Haven, but it has also exacerbated town-
gown tensions, especially in wards like 
the Thirteenth, where the ethnic working 
class and new intellectual class face each 
other head on. William Miller in his book 
The Fifteenth Ward and the Great Society 
wrote of the "sizzling hatred" of Yale on 
the part of most New Haveners, which has 
resulted in part from the fact that "there 
is no longer a shock-absorbing college-
educated non-Yale middle class." The 
McCarthy campaign has taken deep-
rooted conflict between native and tran-
sient into the political arena. 

The endurance of the ROM will depend

John Bailey: "It's a matter of pride with 
John." 

Bailey, Ribicof}, and Dempsey: conference 
on the mound, with the score 33-9. 

Arthur Barbieri: "Give 'em zero." 



**Title: The New Haven Reform Democrats**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
71 The New Journal! October 20, 1968 
to a great extent on its ability to continue 
to capitalize on voter discontent as it did 
this spring when the voters of New Haven 
expressed an amazing degree of anti-war 
or at least anti-administration sentiment. 

The concern voters expressed over a 
national issue, in fact, stimulated a local 
reform impulse. Reform Democrats 
realize, however, that local political strug-
gles in America rarely ascend to debates 
on foreign policy. A sachem of Tammany 
Hall put it rather succinctly when he 
described the futility of the Democratic 
Party's crusade against imperialism in 
1900: 
The Party spent all its breath on that issue 
in the last campaign. That was all right, but 
you can't get people excited about the 
Phillipines. They're too busy makin' a livin' 
to bother about the niggers in the Pacific. 

The reform leaders of New Haven were 
made painfully aware of the volatility of 
national issues on the night of March 31. 
"At first the McCarthy movement here 
was really motivated almost wholly by 
concern for the war," said Professor Van 
Dorn Ooms, one of the principal orga-
nizers of the peace campaign in New 
Haven. "But after Johnson withdrew a 
good deal of wind left our sails and we bad 
to concentrate more on local issues." 

Nevertheless the war in Vietnam did 
act as a catalyst for local political insur-
gency. The unprecedented coverage of the 
war in the media and the strenuous effort 
made by the McCarthyites to inject the 
peace issue into the primaries caused 
national and local issues to be mixed in 
a way that was quite unique. 

Whatever effect the peace issue and 
McCarthy's candidacy bad on the birth 
of the reform movement, it was clear by 
the end of the summer that the organized 
challenge to the Democratic machine in 
New Haven had taken on an identity and 
a stt"ength of its own. When the Reform 
Democratic Movement began organizing 
within the ranks of the McCarthy cam-
paign it created a good bit of tension. One 
group was committed almost exclusively 
to nominating McCarthy in Chicago and, 
with that end in sight, to obtaining fair 
representation at the State Convention in 
Hartford. A spokesman for this group felt 
that "the young reformers" bad taken 
over the McCarthy operation to work for 
local political causes, a development 
which he felt had hurt the effort to secure 
McCarthy's nomination. Furthermore be 
complained that the young people in the 
RDM "wanted to fight and agitate rather 
than work within the party to reform it." 

This gentleman, who complained that the 
young people called him a "patrician 
reformer" and a "Stevenson re-tread," is 
the spokesman for a middle-aged group, 
many of them veterans of Dick Lee's 
campaigns, who are skeptical about the 
RDM. The Democratic Party for them is 
a monumental verity, somewhat like Red 
China: it must be reformed and captured 
if possible, but God forbid that it be fought 
head on. 

The core of young activists in the ROM 
have different priorities. These "new" 
reformers-some who have flirted with 
the New Left and many more who were 
brought into politics by the hope and the 
tragedy that was called Kennedy-felt that 
McCarthy never really had a chance. 

There is some irony in the fact that the 
Senator seemed less important to them 
than he did to the older group; he was, in 
a way, a means to an end. Although some 
of these people look back nostalgically to 
the snowy hills of New Hampshire, many 
more look forward to open conflict with 
the machine in New Haven. The McCarthy 
campaign gave them a unique opportunity 
to infiltrate the Democratic machine, and 
so throughout the summer they concen-
trated on expanding their local power 
rather than campaigning on the long road 
to Chicago. 

Many of these Reform Democrats feel 
uneasy and, in a sense, embarrassed 
working within the regular organization. 
After all, it makes them the colleagues of 
political untouchables like Barbieri and 
Bailey, Dempsey and Dodd. The reformers 
an!, of course, sensitive to leftist charges 
that they are tainted with the odors of 
machine politics. A spokesman for the 
American Independent Movement (AIM) 
said that electoral cooperation with the 
Reform Democrats might be possible but 
that basically the two groups were ideo-
logically incompatible. "In the first place," 
he said, "most AIM people are in some 
sense socialists. We also have no faith in 
the American political system. The Reform 
Democrats even seem to have faith in the 
Democratic Party of Connecticut. They 
say, 'It's hopeless to work in the system, 
but we'll do it anyway. • " 

Some of the reformers are receptive to 
this criticism. One of their leaders, Lee 
Wallace, said that he too had "no faith in 
the party system as it operates today. We 
will have to break it down, but we can 
start by trying to take over the Democratic 
Party," he continued, echoing the old Non-
Partisan League strategy, "because it is 
the party of power in New Haven just as 
it is in most of the South." 

Those who agree with Wallace have 
supported the New Party even without 
McCarthy as a nominee. This form of 
insurgency is not simply a symbolic gesture 
to prove the reformers' militancy; it is an 
alternative strategy for disrupting the 
machine; and, more importantly it is a 
form of moral protest against the perver-
sion of democracy which took place in 
Chicago and, to a lesser extent, in Hartford. 

The older group who worked exclusively 
on the McCarthy campaign finds this 
strategy objectionable. Like Senator Mc-
Carthy and his Connecticut leader, Rever-
end Joseph Duffey, they will stay in the 
party and work for peace candidates, 
wherever those may be found. 

In spite of the strategic and ideological 
differences which separated the young 
Reform Democrats from the McCarthy 
for President people all of the New Haven 
reformers found a basis for cooperation at 
the Hartford convention in June. In bat-
tling for proportional representation, abo-
lition of the unit rule and sweeping reform 
of state election laws, the young activists 
discovered causes with which to confront 
the machine, and the McCarthy parti ans 
found issues which affected their candi-
date·s chances for nomination. 

In general, the ideological focus of most 
of the reformers has been on making the 
political system, especiaiJy the Democratic 
Party, more responsive to the will of the 
people. Some of the people involved in 
the movement go the full distance toward 
government by plebiscite and favor the 
abolition of conventions and the institution 
of a national primary. But there are not 
many thoroughgoing populists among the 
reformers. Van Ooms, the leader of the 
New Haven delegation at Hartford, said 
that he was "not convinced that a national 
presidential primary is the answer": 
Parties have to weigh things other than pure 
public opinion. A national primary would be 
come in to our new shop and see .....


**The New Haven Reform Democrats**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10 I The New Journal! October 20, 1968 
interviewed on the local media after his 
return from Chicago and has probably 
gained a few votes as a result of his articu-
late description of the outrages which took 
place there. 

The bosses are quick to defend them-
selves against the reformers' charges. "Of 
course the organization has power," said 
one veteran alderman. "But it wouldn't if 
it wasn't responsive. We don't have pat-
ronage any more, and so we can't control 
people. After all," he concluded smugly, 
"this isn't Chicago." 

Have the bosses of New Haven heard 
their last hurrah? Apparently so, accord-
ing to Morris Olmer, who bravely de-
fended his chief: "The people like Arthur 
Barbieri," he argued, "and they think be's 
responsive. If he wasn't they wouldn't elect 
him town chairman. He is a mediator, not 
a boss like John Golden, who ruled before 
him with an iron hand." 

The heart of the professionals' argu-
ment is that they represent a majority of 
the voters. Barbieri's men maintain. that 
the victory of the McCarthy slate in April 
was less than a sweeping mandate. The 
reformers are a minority, a snobbish intel-
lectual one at that, who are "using the 
bossism issue as a guise for their own pow-
er drive" and "attempting to inflict their 
will on the people." It is a classic example 
of what William Lee Miller called "popu-
list conservatism" in his entertaining book 
on the perils of politics in New Haven's 
Fifteenth Ward. 

It is understandably difficult, however, 
for the reformers to accept the benevolent, 
majoritarian intentions that the regulars 
claim when confronted with incidents like 
the one which occurred in the Second 
Ward during the local primaries. St. Mi-
chael's hall resembled a court house in 
Lowndes County on April15. Voters of 
the Second Ward were intimidated, ha-
rassed and literaJly prevented from voting 
in elections for ward committeemen. The 
chief villain of this piece, one Albert 
Annunziata, attempted to use his power as 
a machine tender to disfranchise as many 
potential reform voters as possible. Using 
various delaying tactics which often bor-
dered on the obscene, this gentleman 
managed to prevent at least twenty people 
from voting, a margin large enough to cost 
the Reform candidate for committee-
woman the election. 

Much to the surprise of the reformers, 
the machine did not get away with this 
reckless bit of chicanery. The three organi-
zation men who executed, but probably did 
not instigate, the disfranchisement activi-
ties were convicted of vote fraud and the 
court recommended that Annunziata, who 
is an attorney for the city, be debarred. 

But due to one of those wonderous va-
garies of Connecticut election law the 
judge maintained that the ruling statute did 
not permit him to order a new election or 
to offer any other remedy to the aggrieved 
voters! For those who are of a conspira-
torial frame of mind, the reformers point 
out that attorney Alexander Goldfarb, a 
hired gun for the Democratic Party in 
Connecticut who defended Annunziata 
et al., is also the draftsman of the afore-
mentioned statute. 

There is of course something more to 
the Reform Democrats' ideology than anti-
bossism. They speak of creating "parti-
cipatory democracy" within their party by 
throwing open the decision-making pro-
cess to all who would participate. The 
RDM bas in fact formalized this concept 
in their new constitution, which provides 
for monthly policy meetings open to all. 

There is much of the old New England 
town meeting in all of this, but very little 
of the trust implied in that image. There-
formers fear power in a way that would do 
Lord Acton proud and tend to spin out 
elaborate checks and balances on leader-
ship when they discuss their organizational 
plans for the future. This fear of the cor-
rupting influence of power is very evident 
in the reformers' attack on the present con-
dition of the Democratic Party. Although 
they have presented a very intelligent cri-
tique of the existing political machinery, 
of primary laws, convention procedures, 
ward organizations etc., it seems that at the 
heart of their attack is a very deep distrust 
of those who have power. "Arthur Bar-
bieri" said one of the leaders of the Mc-
Carthy campaign, "is a bad man." 

Critics of the .RDM doubt that there-
formers have the capacity to be responsive 
leaders. "They're not participatory at all," 
State Representative Morris Olmer, an out-
spoken regular, said of the Reform Demo-
cratic Movement. "They won't meet with 
us to discuss the issues. Their attitude 
seems to be, 'We don't knoW what the peo-
ple want, but we will tell them.' Really, 
they're fascistic-minded." This critique of 
the reformers by a professional is ironic-
ally supported by a man of the New Left, 
Yale Professor Peter Rose, who said he 
feared that the reformers were "not really 
committed to changing the decision-
making processes in New Haven. In fact, 
they have not really consulted the people 
before making their moves.'' Rose was also 
distressed that the reformers we,re too con-
cerned with the traditional, liberal, due-
process approach to problems. "Their fixa-
tion with Roberts' Rules of Order doesn't 
encourage involvement," said Rose. "It 
actually precludes participation by the av-
erage ghetto resident." After observing a 
few of the reformers' seemingly inter-
minable organizational meetings, it is easy 
to apply to them the following character-
ization of amateur club politics offered by 
James Q. Wilson: 

Meetings begin late and end very late. 
Everyone may speak and virtually everyone 
does. Roberts' Rules of Order is very much in 
evidence; indeed it is perhaps the only source 
of authority one can detect .... The amateur 
Democrats are extremely sensitive to the 
charge that amateur politics is nothing but 
a debating society. But ... there is an almost 
irresistible urge among the intellectual 
amateurs to get into the discussion in order 
to attack a weak argument, display a fact, 
dissect an inconsistency or make a point. 

Whatever the inherent inadequacies of the 
reformers' approach to participatory de-
mocracy, the fact remains that there are 
several young activists out in the wards of 
New Haven working to bring more people 
into the political system without waiting 
for it to be completely revolutionized. 

Bruce Payne, who was recently elected a 
Democratic ward committeeman on the 
Reform ticket, is a graduate student in po-
litical science who calls himself a resident 
activist. "I can't provide many of the old 
services," he said describing the limits of 
his role, "like getting city jobs for people; 
but the machine can't either. Many people 
are really lonely and distanced from the 
political order, and I simply try to channel 
their estrangement in useful directions." 

Payne said that people in his ward were 
often anxious to talk about their own 
troubles and to suggest remedies for com-
munity problems. And so he has instituted 
open ward meetings which will serve an 
educational as well as a political function. 

The role of a committeeman as Payne 
Abe Ribicoff: "How hard it is to accept the 
truth." 

Bruce Payne: resident activist, therapist, 
agitator and old time war:d heeler. 

Lee Wallace: "We will have to break the 
party system dowr.." 

sees it combines the talents of a therapist, 
an agitator and an old-time ward heeler. 
Talking to old ladies about their rheuma-
tism, the war in Vietnam and the corner 
street-light all seem to be mixed in the same 
bag. This is certainly not radical reform of 
existing structures-although the RDM 
has worked out some new concepts of 
intra-party democracy. It is, however, an 
attempt to make the system, the ancient 
apparatus which has served this city for so 
long, a bit more responsive to the people 
who live in the New Haven of 1968. 

But good intentions, say critics of the 
reform movement, cannot disguise the 
basically elitist posture of the reformers. A 
critic on the left feels that, 

Basically, the reformers in New Haven want 
to talk to their own kind. They disdain the 
bigotry of the lower-class ethnic groups, but 
they dQn't attempt to understand it. Part of 
the problem is that so many of these people 
are academics. The more the reform move-
mentis University based, the less chance it 
has to understand the problems of the 
community. 

The radical critique of the reformers was 
echoed by a machine politician, who also 
zeroed in on elitism: 

The McCarthy workers had an easy time of it 
bringing out the WASP vote, but they really 
bitched when I brought in old folks and people 
who didn't speak English and tried to help 
them out .... [.The reformers) seem to think 
that only the educated should vote. 

James Q. Wilson in his analysis of reform 
~ 
Democrats concluded that class-based 
elitism was the biggest problem of the or-
ganizations he studied: 

The amateurs seek to mobilize intellectual, 
not material discontent; to obtain recognition 
for the cosmopolitan middle class, not for 
the disadvantaged lower class; and to press 
for rationalization on the basis of general 
principles rather than for the distribution 
of tangible benefits on the basis of personal 
mediation. 

The problem of elitism plagues there-
formers for two reasons: first, because their 
approach to politics and community prob-
lems tends to be filtered through the lenses 
of bourgeois America; and second, be-
cause their more or less permanent mi-
nority position forces them to project their 
political views onto the people from what 
seems to be a position of moral and in-
tellectual superiority. As Wilson pointed 
out, this is the eternal dilemma of there-
formers. "The only alternative to elitism 
is the reformation of public opinion," 
which is a vain hope without the ability to 
organize the mass of the electorate andes-
tablish working alliances with those labor 
and minority groups which do have a mass 
base. The ROM in New Haven seems to 
be caught on the horns of this dilemma. Its 
membership is predominantly middle class 
and upper class, and it has no prospect of 
securing an agreement with labor or the 
white ethnic groups who are intensely 
loyal to Lee if not to the machine. 

Prospects for working with black or-
ganizations should be equally clouded. 
Middle-class reform movements have al-
ways had difficulty enlisting the aid of 
blacks, because, as one political scientist 
has written, 

Except for a handful with an intellectual 
orientation or a professional background, 
most potential Negro leaders seem [to the 
amateurs] to be primarily interested either in 
the conventional rewards of the professional 
politician oroin racist slogans and extreme 
positions. 


--- Page 11 ---

11 I The New Journal I October 20, 1968 
The New H aven reformers are tempted 
to accept this dichotomy when they see 
Barbieri's black henchman Gene McCabe 
working hard to put together a ghetto ma-
chine like Boss Dawson's in Chicago and 
at the same time they see Fred Harris and 
other militants expressing their standard 
view of white liberals with good inten-
tions. A member of AIM offers this pessi-
mistic view: 

The bourgeois blacks may be willing to go 
along with the reform movement, but, basi-
cally, these liberals don't offer the structural 
changes the residents of the ghetto demand. 

And, what is more, the reformers' due-
process, organizational approach prevents 
them from understanding what's really 
happening among black people. 

lrv Stolberg, a reform leader, acknowl-
edges the difficulties his group has had in 
securing black interest and cooperation. 
"On the one hand, black leaders say that 
the McCarthy people didn't contact them 
early enough in the campaign, and on the 
other hand, when he did speak to them 
early in the winter, they didn't want to ally 
with us because we didn't have any power." 

In spite of all the obstacles and dire pre-
dictions, the McCarthy movement made 
some progress toward political coopera-
tion with the black community. Shortly 
after winning the entire block of New 
Raven's delegates to the Hartford Con-
vention the McCarthy leaders gave four 
alternate positions to black people, in-
cluding Bill Jones of the Progressive Dem-
ocrats and Courtland Wilson of the 
NAACP. Later Jones and Mrs. Fred 
Harris accepted two of the positions the 
McCarthyites had been awarded on the 
Democratic State Committee. At the con-
vention in Hartford, Wilson spoke highly 
of the McCarthy delegates' walk-out; he 
said that they would return to New Haven 
as "winners" in the eyes of his community 
and predicted that there was definitely a 
future in an electoral aJiiance between 
Reform Democrats and the Black Coali-
tion. There is of course some question as 
to how many blacks share Wilson's op-
timism. ("After all," said one white radical, 
"Courtland is a Tom." 

The reformers have, however, taken 
legitimate pleasure in the unexpected de-
velopments which occurred at the RDM 
convention in the Conte School on Sep-
tember 7. After an hour of rather boring 
debate on the constitution, about twenty 
black people including Wilson and John 
Barber, who is certainly not a "Tom," 
strode to the front of the auditorium. Just 
before their arrival Bill Jones made a 
speech, which presumably represented 
more than his own opinion, urging that 
"blacks not give up on the political pro-
cess." In spite of the odious nature of the 
Chicago convention, Jones was encour-
aged by the Negro challenges in southern 
states, by the candidacy of Channing 
Phillips, and by the fact that white instead 
of black militants were exposing their 
heads to police billy clubs. 

In a surprise move, an alert reformer 
nominated Courtland Wilson to oppose 
the temporary chairman of the convention, 
lrv Stolberg, for the vice presidency of the 
ROM. Wilson didn't know quite what to 
make of it but after caucusing with the 
black delegation, decided to accept. Stol-
berg then withdrew and brought the house 
down with his timely statement that "the 
success of the movement will depend on a 
true coalition of all groups in New H aven." 

Wilson was elected along with two other 
members of his delegation who won seats 
on the executive committee of the RDM. 

Apparently, a group of articulate black 
leaders has decided to take a chance on 
the white, middle-class reformers. 

The future of this alliance is, of course, 
very uncertain, and the inclusion of the 
black militants, even for the time being, 
probably reduces even further the appeal 
the RDM will have to labor and ethnic 
groups. There is also considerable doubt as 
to whether the reformers will be able to 
ally with AIM (the convention tabled a 
motion to endorse Robert Cook's can-
didacy on the AIM ticket) even though the 
field staffs of both groups will overlap con-
siderably. 

There are other weighty imponderables. 
Can the ROM maintain the momentum it 
established in the April primaries and dur-
ing the conventions? Will the reformers 
suffer a serious loss of prestige as a result 
of their defeat in the September primaries? 
If the war issue recedes, will the reformers 
lose the liberal, non-student support 
they won on it? There are more basic 
queries to be raised. Can the reformers 
really work within the Democratic party 
for anything like meaningful change in the 
political machinery, not to mention the 
social and economic systems, of New 
Haven. Or will the demands of profes-
sional politics eventually force them into 
the familiar mold-a mold in which their 
radical critics already place them? Can the 
reformers really claim to speak for the 
people even with the majority they attained 
in the April primary; or does their race, 
professional status and intellectual pre-
tension prevent them from really under-
standing what the people, specifically poor 
whites and Negroes, really want or, more 
importantly, why? If these questions are 
not on the minds of the reformers at this 
critical stage in the development of their 
movement, they should be. ~ 

**What did Tarzan say when he stepped out from behind the bush?**
**Author: Susan Holahan**
**Page number(s): 12**

121 The New Journal I October 20, 1968 
What did Tarzan say when he stepped 
out from behind the bush? 
by Susan Holahan 
Juet. ro64 chotce t'lt't7 dttel'l 
a--.7 a bo•• ptpe peera noon 
Ch&nc• not h.J'attrtc.l la\&,Ch 
1 t lap Juat "r ~tn 
alowl7 6 tactor7 ••r117 
petrlf14d. ~11 rooa 
at-ate hla tlon 
• lka atopa aun d.ow 
tlanka roo. araa 
and. not and ract 
alta up \Uaa ao••• 
vhltt w.ter t~a•aa whtte 
looka atrt\tea 
under ·~ a-poert oloaea 
• .,.,. r-e•tn 
ou.t aho1.1t1 out 
C\U.hton at7lt aa.e blonde C\llhlon at7le 
road e>eta l a te 
ktaa .t\111 coaea alowlJ' puta attll 
upstatra la coaaa 
too 
hla that at.atrt .. 4 
heart roof bett.er benda 
\hat that tell tbat at 1 t•a 
•ery there b.J a tart a aou.nd 
coea 
equeaz.ea 
leaa loo:&a tla"l••• l .. r. 
p\llla two too 
!Uta 
41atllled cU4n' t concerc. &t••• ~ 
takes abalttn 
bottoe ,...,., ltabt 
thtnc 
lert looka 
loft 
pelta aort 
t.blft.&l aolecl t'rtn..cea 
IIOrpbl.ne 110rphtne 
~n~at cu.rrerence 
\&ncler era p.acka&e 
tlo .. ra 
c.o-.rd• Jolcea 
wte: ftouae 
d.on•c. ntc.7 pr1nt houae 
pl••• pl .. •• 6 
at~tpa 
a 
can 
••t 
wi nd u-pon beatd.ea 
cllabe 
ta closed cold 
aoo4b7 flaal. n•rb7 ahaelt 
keep 1teep to qul•t.ed large 
a t1n 
plt. cape copc.•r qulet.ed coae d.own 
aoons 
or rune 
clapbolard cloor 
ot llk.:l 
rae• claa d.ns atlll 
'orok•• or and •eke 
bacle aorr7 box 3oea 
eren • t.? 
ao\ll\d au.d atora dreaa 
t..hl.ck l.a ahort. a 
h•~• 
haze 
u.nder u.nt.ll depth• oar 
alr .. 4.7 'or .. ata 
uav.e-1 rubberl.zed 
h&at. &hark 
aaUor rt t. 
... 7 a tew .. net and then 
bu.lll: roo• 
•• ba.t. 
&1fts gu1Ur 
ao-wea al1~t a-.y 
pt t.c.h after 
landacape 
were all t.hrova piqued 
encircle 
bJ' n~aber aba.tled 
nuaber aleep to H~at 
cod pO'W'.Ice 
.lftot. .. coharlne 
7ac.ht. 
noc. t.tle at booa 
poebbed 
awta 
lanll.a sleep at loow:a 
tal•• a trc 
ptM1> part enter ktae 
tae.c._rda t.he a n\14e t."rn• t.hlrd 
poc.&et ln.g doW' 
--•• a~t.ntrd 
ala.nt.ed n\ld.e 
t.1&bt M.nd blonde 
rttty held 
M.aaea 
ala;nt. 
b1 te gl_aas 
1 .. 
• •er7 ttae la..n 
•lcterl7 'b.7 W'lft.cj.a 
,..U)I;a ane .he 
ta &n.gJ"7 fora 
at the I ~ 
luap nuaber 
oarry cold only 
red ~tlasses 
cent da)'t 
coes 
ent. there 
eap t.hln.g 
rteettn~ sJ)f're 
•ds 
and aton pulls 
.,..ble 
aent 
ond.a 
kneea 
po 
tton 
atted 
nta ts thtn5 ha1 a hta ta had a hla •


**Yale's Cultural Lag in Poetry**

On a grey afternoon last spring W. H. Auden appeared at 
Pierson College. Hundreds of eager listeners were turned 
away for lack of space, although many readers consider 
Auden's latest poems to be echoes of his early work. 

Around the same time Kenneth Koch read at Branford 
College. His audience included the friend who had in-
vited him, 8 or I 0 other fellows of Branford who had 
dined with him at the Master's House, and a few-a very 
few-undergraduates. But Koch's long poem, "The 
Pleasures of Peace" (Paris Review, Summer, 1968), which 
he read that day at Branford, may just be one of the most 
brilliant works by any American poet in years, and his 
influence on the best younger poets has been enormous. 

Auden, of course, is famous. He has lectured and read at 
Yale many times before; students may read his work in at 
least one course in the English department. Koch is 
merely active and important. He teaches at Columbia. 

In poetry, as in other areas, Yale suffers from cultural 
lag. What has already been institutionalized is received 
with great enthusiasm; what we cannot yet codify we ig-
nore. The curriculum for both undergraduates and 
graduate students, especially in English, supports, without 
quite acknowledging it, the goal of turning out competent 
scholars and critics--nothing so unprofessional as poets 
and novelists. Particularly not poets, who are at best hard 
to pin down between Honors and High Pass. A working 
poet wants and needs to read what other poets are writing 
now. A budding scholar cares to read only what the tra-
dition has already assimilated. Hence we have a course of 
studies which dares to reach as far as Robert Lowell, 
Sylvia Plath and James Dickey. 

Poets to be studied in class fit the "academic" style, an 
excellent mode which has simply dominated taste too 
long. This line starts, for present purposes, with Eliot and 
Pound, who discovered Tradition. It includes learned 
allusion, organic metaphor and elaborate form. (Pound 
revived the sestina, dead since Sidney as far as anyone 
knows; Eliot adopted and modified it for The Four 
Quartets.) The "baleful influence" (Koch's phrase) of Eliot 
and Pound made it obligatory for a self-respecting poet to 
know and use Latin, 17th-century E nglish poetry and 
19th-century French poetry; to try sestinas, sonnets, villa-
nelles and ballades; to consider as subjects small creatures 
and smaller disappointments. From their example grew a 
school someone has called the "cornbelt metaphysicians." 

Proficient in prosody, they can ruminate inexhaustibly on 
the moral and aesthetic implications of, say, an ugly bird 
which risks its life to obtain food. They "sometimes ... 
brave a subject like the Villa d'Este or a lighthouse in 
Rhode Island" (Koch). Like white liberals, they try to 
overwhelm rebellion by appearing to contain it. Gregory 
Corso once charged that "No square poet would ever 
begin a poem with 'Fried Shoes,' "so John Hollander pro-
duced not one but two, and one of them a villanelle. The 
example of Mr. Hollander, who taught at Yale for several 
years, shows what the dedicated academic poet can do 
with material superficially as unpromising as the descent 
of a chunk of plaster from Wright Hall or Saybrook Col-
lege: it yields the ballad, "Near Tragedy Near Yale Sta-
tion." 

While Eliot and Pound packed their neo-neo-classical 
bags in London and New York, Dr. Williams practiced 
medicine and wrote poetry in Paterson, New Jersey. Key 
phrase for his style: "no ideas but in things." In place of 
philosophy modeled on The Four Quartets or pastiche de-
rived from The Waste Land, the eye of the poet stayed on 
the object, often a simple, domestic object. A red wheel-
barrow or a handful of plums, whose thingness turns the 
poem from a meditation into a dramatic event: 

This Is Just to Say 
I have eaten 
the plums 
that were in 
the icebox 
and which 
you were probably 
saving 
for breakfast 
Forgive me 
they were delicious 
so sweet 
and so cold 
(William Carlos Williams, in Tire 
Collected Earlier Poems) 

Neither the wheelbarrow nor the plums give rise to an 
elaborate rhetorical gesture. Watch the wheelbarrow, cov-
ered with rainwater, and taste the plums; beyond that, it's 
up to you. Born in 1833, Williams was a contemporary of 
Eliot. Yet his style did not come into its own as a model 
until after 1950. 

Following Williams, the Black Mountain poets, led by 
Charles Olson, based "projectivism" on things, on direct 
perception, on composition by field, on process rather 
than idea. Olson refused to let the years he spent at Yale 
affect him. He wanted the reader to hear the poet breath-
ing in the verse and the poet to take advantage of the 
typewriter's distinctive qualities. At Black Mountain 
College, an enclave in North Carolina, Olson, Creeley, 
Dorn, Duncan, Levertov and others published magazines 
and books, developing the means and motives of projectiv-
ism from a combination of Williams with more esoteric 
materials, like Mayan hieroglyphics and H asidic mysti-
cism. Later in the fifties traveling New Yorkers studied 
Williams-plus-Orientalism at the feet of Kenneth Rexroth 
in San Francisco, published their Whitmanesque incan-
tations with Ferlinghetti at the City Lights Bookstore and 
began to call themselves the Beat Generation. 

Meanwhile, back at the university, the academic literary 
quarterlies limited themselves to the accepted style of 
verse, eminently publishable, lamentably perishable. 
Commercial publishers made up slim volumes for poets 
prominent in these quarterlies. Anti-academics countered 
with little magazines and private presses. Apparently 
two separate poetic universes coexisted in this country 
where, after all, the public for any poetry is extremely 
limited. But then an anthology turned coexistence into 
war. 

An anthology can define a generation of poets exclu-
sively. In 1954 Donald Hall, Louis Simpson and Robert 
Pack, academic poets who gathered in someone's aca-
demic basement, slyly limited "the new poets of England 
and America" in their anthology to an academic group 
deeply impressed by the teachings of New Criticism: their 
metaphors developed organically, their poems encouraged 
formalistic explication. Leaf through Hall-Simpson and 
the look of the pages tells the story-solid blocks of print, 
neat stanzas with lines of equal length. Donald Hall 
guided the selection of quiet, competent, nostalgic poems 
like his own appreciation of the Sleeping Giant hill in 
Hamden. In 1960 Donald Allen retaliated with an anthol-
ogy of the Other poets, allowing no overlap. He labeled 
schools: The Projectivists (Olson, Duncan, Levertov, 
Creeley, et at.), The San Francisco Renaissance (Brother 
Antoninus, Ferlinghetti, Jack Spicer, Philip Lamantia), 
The Beat Generation (Kerouac, Ginsberg, Corso}, The 
New York G roup (Koch, Frank O'Hara, John Ashbery). 

Belligerence shouted from Allen's title, The New Ameri-
can Poetry (a contrast to the international style of the 
academics); and the pages of broken lines, shifting forms, 
designs and symbols promised to treat experience freshly. 

Just possibly the appearance of Allen's anthology signaled 
the decline into disfavor of the academic style. Only the 
strongest ivory tower could have withstood Kenneth 
Koch's attack on academics "gargling out innocuous (to 
whom?) poems about maple trees and their children" 
(Allen, p. 231). 

Both older generations influenced the 54 poets in Paul 
Carroll's new anthology, The Young American Poets. 
Young American Poets wear what learning they have 
more lightly than did the academics in Hall-Simpson; 
yet many of them think harder than did Allen's " new 
American poets." Because Paul Carroll had a poem of 
his own among the projectivists in the Allen anthology, 
we should expect a certain sympathy in his collection with 
open forms and experimentation. And he reveals this 
sympathy, without letting it become an exclusive prefer-
ence. His chosen young poets don't line up precisely on 
one side or the other in the great War of the Anthologies. 

In fact, unlike its predecessors, The Young American 
Poets does not define a generation. The generation of these 
poets-those who last-will occur 5 to 10 years from now. 
(Assume that a poetic generation is when something poeti-
cally new happens definitively, or something poetica!Jy 
old ends decisively. Current opinion puts the generation 
of the academics in 1947, with the award of the Pulitzer 
Prize to Lowell's Lord Weary's Castle, and the generation 
of the Others in about 1962.) Right now, more young 
poets reveal their teachers than exhibit poetic personalities 
of their own. Any group of writers 22-35 years old must 



**Young American Poetry**
**Author: [Not specified]**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
13 I The New Jour nail October 20, 1968 
flatter someone this way. Their poems don't lose interest 
for all that. 

A Young American Poet, according to Paul Carroll's 
selection, has in many ways the best of both schools. Your 
composite Young American Poet was born in 1932, or 
later. He or she has a B.A., frequently an M.A. from 
someplace like the Creative Writing Program at Iowa. 
May have published a book-some have published many 
-but, if so, in all likelihood with a small press of exotic 
title (fibor de Nagy, Black Sparrow, Kayak, etc.). Publi-
cation with a commercial press smacks of sell-out, unless, 
like Aram Saroyan, you can get Random House under 
contract to put out a ream of blank paper stamped with 
your copyright when you've stopped trusting words. 

Almost certainly has appeared in magazines, little Qr 
otherwise, most frequently in those edited by friends. (At 
least 15 of the 54 edit little magazines themselves: the 
small-press/ little-magazine world seems to run on friend-
ships.) Lives in San Francisco, on New York's Lower East 
Side or at a State College--sometimes all three. Makes a 
living teaching, criticizing art or picking up fellowships. 
Promulgates a poetics reluctantly but floridly when 
pressed, disavowing all the while any ability or inclination 
to explain why or how one writes poetry: 
I write poetry to tie leashes onto vacuums because it is a city 
ordinance. I write poetry to be the right person to answer the 
wrong question .... I suppose you could say I write poetry 
to find out why I write poetry. 
(Julia Vinograd) 

Young American Poetry is frank, dramatic, experimen-
tal with language if not with form, rigorous in its demands 
on poet and audience. Young American Poets put 
themselves firmly in the center of their poems. Then 
they call in wives and children, friends and poetic masters, 
not as metaphors, emblems or dramatic poses but as 
facts, even as interruptions to the work of poetry: 
36. 
Life is boring when you are Tarzan of the Apes 
e.g. You step out from behind a bush 
and say 
Yes, lam M'sieurTarzan 
37. 
Dick Gallup arrives at this point 
and says 
" Life is too boring" 
38. 
Jacques Louis David is crying in his crib 
he is not bored 
Jane has given him a banana 
Dick reads those lines 
they bore him 
39. 
but I laugh plenty 
(Ted Berrigan, "Tambourine Life") 

Berrigan has the gall to record visits, drop names, make 
lists, tell bad jokes and turn these accidents into an image 
of a crazy, jangling, thin-skinned existence only the Sal-
vation Army would dream of using for music: tambourine 
life. For these poets, random acts become the poem, or 
the poem itself can become an act, a weapon: 
With its cutting edge 
With its submarine of survivors 
With its flagpole that has run down all flags 
With its shape of a grave-digger's shovel 
With its vein of ore 
With its speed of a runner who leaves no tracks 
I jab into your mouth, this poem, this tongue. 
(Jack Marshall, "Forced Entry") 

Forsaking words, Diane Wakoski, who admits to a fetish 
about George Washington and a soul from the Minoan 
age, poses with a pistol pointed at the startled reader. She 
makes her portrait her best poem. Message from Marshall, 
Wakoski, et al.: a Young American Poet does not hesitate 
to hold the reader up, to aim his poems outward and let 
them explode. To replace Koch's satire of the academic 
style, the first gasp for poetic "Fresh Air," Saint Geraud 
addresses himself directly and bitterly to his contempo-
raries: 
There's no time left to write poems. 
If you wiU write rallying cries, yes, do so, .... 
• 
What I mean is: maybe you are the earth's last poets. 
(Saint Geraud, "To American Poets'') 

Maybe. Koch's poem created a character. Saint Geraud 
is a character, a pseudonym from an 18th-century porno-
graphic novel which masks the poet. "Saint Geraud" 
dismisses Bill Knott (his erstwhile self, real-world name) 
as "a virgin and a suicide." He pubhshed Knott's suicide 
letter widely in 1966 to announce a personal apocalypse. 
Other poets prepare to face the general apocalypse he 
predicts. Robert Kelly tries to articulate it, with the help 
of the world's mythologies and poetic strategies out of 
Blake and Ginsberg. Lou Lipsitz, who has a Ph.D. from 
Yale in Political Science, hopes (momentarily) to avoid it: 
We'll stay 
in the mountains, preaching, 
singing, weaving and propagating 
our own kind. 
(Lipsitz, "For WFG Who Was Told 
That He Didn't Publish Enough to 
be promoted to Associate Professor") 

Young American Poetry begins with the poet at the 
center.lt's a fresh start, with no one pretending that poems 
descend from the air or that poets finally want anything 
more than what they can make poetically. The enterprise 
mushrooms; it involves the reader, radicalizing him artisti-
cally. The key ideas are confrontation and participation, 
as: 
1 hold in my hands 
one invaluable, unusually large, circular, 
hydrated, cellular, fish-spined, shell-pasted, 
molecular, wood-fitted, lilac scented, pollenated, 
earth-colored, Katanga-mined, Bantu-smelted, ... 
mobile, eurhythmic, mechanical 
non-plastic, free-spinning, 
winged, elevated, 
piece of myself. 
If you look closely 
you can see it. 
(Morton Marcus, "Look Closely") 

Any poet wants to make the reader do his share of the 
poetic work, or "look closely," but 71 adjectives for a bit 
of the poet's self-the very accumulation has to suggest 
a new way in this generation to approach the task of 
poetry. These young poets see it as part of their responsi-
bility not to let the reader escape his reading untouched. 
A simple strategy: break a 3-word sentence ("This ... 
ruins me") with a 43-line parenthesis describing the first 
word, as Gerald William Barrax (the one black poet in 
the 54) does in "Second Dance Poem." The reader must 
meet the thing itself head on and face the poet's dissolu-
tion when they both break the spell of the parenthesis. The 
distant reader finds himself implicated, committed-
guerrilla poetry (to which supply any available analogy 
to the Living Theatre). 

Whatever the poem does to the reader dramatically, it 
remains on the page. Therefore, the most exciting work 
by Young American Poets tries all imaginable maneuvers 
with that page. Tricks in this bag are magic to experi-
menters. Berrigan's "Tambourine Life" places events in 
time (sequence or simultaneity) by spacing them-making 
the poem's dramatic strategy a visual one. Barrax's "Sec-
ond Dance Poem" entangles the reader with the poet in 
the parentheses of a paradoxical relationship--making 
the poem's visual strategy a dramatic one. Lines spaced 
out in one way or another keep meanings and images ftex-
ible in the best work. Only poets like James Applewhite, 
Marvin Bell, James Tate and a few others, who move in 
traditional patterns of imagery, take little or no advantage 
of the possibilities of visual form. Oddly, Applewhite, Bell 
and Tate all write about the constrictions of traditional 
form. Once the reader has stumbled happily through the 
chaotic layout of "Tambourine Life" or meandered 
dazedly around Vito Hannibal Acconci's "Kay Price and 
Stella Pajunas," a poem of conventional shape will feel 
cribbed and confined. Young American poets have sur-
veyed e. e. cummings' experiments in typography; they 
have followed Olson's advice to mirror breathing in their 
lines and make the best use of the typewriter. Acconci in 
"Kay Price ... " met these challenges an<! more (near the 
end vertical strips 7 or 8 characters wide describe the 
smalles, largest, longest, quickest books in the world) to 


--- Page 14 ---

141 The New Journal I October 20, 1968 
the bewilderment and irritation of the reader. Until you 
reach his note on the title: "Kay Price, of Adelaide, South 
Australia, typed, nonstop, for 53 hours, ending on June 
13, 1962. Stella Pajunas, in 1946, typed 216 words per 
minute on an IBM machine." By this time, what better 
material than a praise of the machine itself, on that 
machine? 

At some point, poem-shapes abandon the verbal re-
sources of traditional poetry. In "Re," Acconci encloses 
each line in 0, often depositing further sets of 0 in be-
tween. Here and there a set of 0 will contain words, 
permutations of "here and there" and "I say." "Re" might 
mean "about," "on the subject of;" it has to do in Latin 
with "thing," which becomes "affairs," or maybe "event" 
-a neat succession to describe what happens in the figure-
poem when the poet tries to capture his experience in 
words and the subject becomes action on paper. With a 
poem like "Scrip Ant," the reader ventures on his own. 
The poet or perpetrator, Clark Coolidge, does offer a 
description of what be's about: 
As Stein has most clearly & accurately indicated, Words have 
a universe of qualities other than those of descriptive relation: 
Hardness, Density, Sound-Shape, Vector-Force, & Degrees of 
Transparency/ Opacity. I am attempting to peer through the 
lines into this possible WoodArt Landscape, work within it & 
return with Wordscapes, WordObjects to light and refresh 
the mind so currently overloaded with centuries of medial 
Language-Tape. 

Acconci and Coolidge appropriate techniques from a 
phenomenon very popular in Europe now: concrete 
poetry. Concrete poets make graphic symbols of words 
and windmills of letters. (The Something Else Press has 
an anthology of concrete poetry with handsome and 
enlightening examples. Sometimes they can be coaxed 
into selling it.) One poet in the 54 has contributed work 
of this type, what he calls "pattern poems." Richard 
Kostelanetz's "Tribute to Henry Ford-1, 2, 3" are com-
posed of Ts and A's, the first two in simple highway traffic 
patterns, the third with both letters in a more complicated 
clover-leaf. These should warn aspirants against choosing 
novelty out of weakness; other poets in this collection go 
beyond their depth with forms and styles borrowed from 
more crafty predecessors or created for the occasion, but 
only these "pattern poems" exploit a mode cheaply. 

Strange that the one poet here who has no art with words 
should supply the longest biography, a full page of small 
print detailing all his critical essays and collections of 
others' writings. 

If some young poets move beyond the tradition by 
pushing form--dramatic and visual-to its limits, others 
move beyond by moving in, by penetrating the verbal 
texture of poetry in order to turn it inside out. (A leader 
like Berrigan bas tried all of these paths. He says he works 
through a poetics in each book he finishes.) Key concept 
here: syntax, the interrelation of parts in language-
structures. Beyond syntax of words within the sentence 
lies a syntax of thoughts, phrases or objects in the poem. 
Traditional poetry places its objects in relations either 
predictable or immediately acceptable. Many Young 
American Poets test variations of the surrealist style, 
rejecting common object-, phrase- or thought-syntax, 
sometimes rejecting even the notion of design, as Sotere 
Torregian does most emphatically. Torregian calls himself 
the "spokesman for the Surrealist Movement in America." 
(The Movement's motto: "C'est Ia guerre totale"-more 
guerrila poetry.) Surrealist images rise from the uncon-
scious, according to practitioners. The poet invites; be 
does not organize. He hopes that alogical connections will 
create a new syntax, evocative or suggestive, possibly a 
projection of something hitherto untapped in the reader's 
unconscious experience. Try, for example: 
Many students of Greek think a thorn of the foot an 
Egyptian bird like a heron 
Three tailors of Tooley Street. He was also the chief Moon 
God "wandering the blue rocks" 
live with me 
(Sotere Torregian, "The Age of Gold") 

What bells ring: Androcles and the lion? An old Irish folk-
song? Sir James Frazier, Oisin or Christopher Marlowe? 
Collect all associations, then test against the title. You 
may miss the sound of poetry, but in exchange you gain 
a kaleidoscope of impossible, beautiful visions at first and 
a knowledge of u.tter deprivation as you approach the end: 
You runaway 
Where girls are dubbed with race-horse wreaths 
You return the area is demolished by the robot 
bomb 
Cheese and bread our diet again 
Weare naked 
(Torregian, "Age of Gold") 

Random images in surrealist poetry replace, or some-
times augment, the random events of "reality" in a poem 
like "Tambourine Life." Although surrealism fashionably 
emphasizes the aleatory element, poetry that takes off 
from this style can still convince the reader that a poet 
remains in control, that he is at the center, still the Hero 
of Art. To explain the origin of this control, Tyner White 
makes a game-metaphor for a process many of his con-
temporaries probably experience in some form: 
Most of my poems start as nonsense improvisations, but once 
the material is on the page and the typewriter has given up, I · 
am in the position of a chess player looking over his board-
White to play and win ... from a defeated jangle of rubbish 
one hopes to make a triumph out of the poem. The trouble is 
knowing what Black will do. 

A game played on the ubiquitous Writing Machine pro-
vides the battleground for the struggle from rubbish to 
poem, always against a mysterious adversary who might 
upset the whole board whenever he chooses. 

Directness that amounts to an assault on the reader, 
startling visual techniques, old methods under new control 
are positive and novel qualities of poets in the new anthol-
ogy. The same qualities, however, lead to characteristic 


RE 
(here)( 
)( 
( 
)(th ere)( 
) 
J ( 
)(her e and ther e - 1 &f\y her e J 
) ( I do not say now) ( 
( I do not say tt now)( 
)(then and there- I s a y there)( 
. 
)( ""Y 
)(I do not say then )( 
(I do not say, then , th1s)( 
) (then I say) ( 
) ( 
) (here and there) 
)(flrst here)( 
(I sald here second)( 
)(I do not talk fl rst )( 
)(there then) 
)(here goes)( 
(I do not say what goes)! 
)(I do not go on $8ylng)( 
) (there 1 s) 
)(that is not to say)( 
(I do not say that)( 
)(here below) ( 
J( 
)( I tlo not tf\;).k down) 
)(under II¥ words) ( 
(under dlSeuaslon) ( 
)(all there)( 
)(I do not say all) 
)(Rll I say)( 
there) 
failings. Directness becomes flat-footed, prosy. Experi-
mental form overwhelms or excludes substance. Linguis-
tic tricks proliferate into chaos. From young poets 
tradition expects, even demands, passion, inventiveness 
and nerve and in return forgives imitation of older poets, 
inflation of inadequate images/ ideas, cramping of what 
could be major images/ ideas. Nevertheless, the excite-
ments of novelty more than compensate for the inevitable 
losses of control. 

In poetry with these qualities another problem arises, 
not strictly new, but very much a part of the new style: 
Do these poems end, or do they just stop? (Does it matter?) 
A slice of life has no necessary structure and conclusion, 
unlike an academic homiJy upon an ant. The pattern of a 
concrete poem can close itself, but the open forms derived 
from cummings, Olson al)d Ginsberg just seem to promise 
more of the same. And the unconscious, the image-
reservoir, of a surrealist runs out of new images sooner 
than it provides their proper completion, whatever it 
might be (assuming that the orthodox surrealist leaves the 
products of his unconscious untampered with). To take 
these statements negatively, as deprecations of contem-
porary poetry, is to accept a common critical premise: 
that the nature of art is to order experience. In the past, 
poets who took the chance of open-endedness in a poem 
usually took pains to point their readers in the right 
direction(s), a kind of ordering. Young poets now might 
argue (do argue, on the evidence of their work) that, given 
the universe of experience they confront, exalting order 
as the only true aim of art would be as false as exalting the 
heroic couplet as the only true form. For many Young • 
American Poets, the criterion of completeness is dated, 
irrelevant. Their poems aproach-
become-happenings, 
happily; and the reader must work to complete the experi-
ence of the poem, if he needs to. Ultimately, this adventi-
tiousness becomes a criterion for the new poetry, and 
editors of little magazines, describing their policies, 
categorically reject the "well-made" poem. Academic 
' r 
style has thus traveled 180 degrees on a wheel of fortune. 
The new style, like the old, has its roots in an attitude 
toward the language available to the poet. A canny young-
ster will carve out for himself something like Peter 
Scheldahl's blob-theory of American English: 
I'm unalterably stuck with the terrible American language, 
which is a volatile and often a very messy language .... 
American words are blobs, rather than clusters, of meaning. 
Sticking with the "native speech rhythms" is the only way to 
know what you yourself are talking about, let alone to com-
municate it to someone el~. 

Altogether, it verges on a political program of novel 
courage, this insistence that even the artist confront the 
life around him directly, instead of trying to shape it 
intellectually. 

The Young American Poets as an anthology is dis-
tinguished by diversity, inclusiveness rather than exclu-
siveness. To put this collection together, Paul Carroll read 
magazines by the hundreds, communicated with scores 
of older poets, teachers and editors and finally invited 
poems from 300 poets. Of whom he chose 54. Hard to 
quarrel with his choices, harder to pick the few who will 
stay the course, one day to write as patronizing an Intro-
duction-by-a-Major-Poet-of-the-Previous-Generation as 
the brief essay by James Dickey which begins this book. 
I might say: Watch Acconci, Berrigan and Tony Towle, 
if you like to laugh while doing headstands. Kelly if your 
visions are naturally mythic. Louise GlUck and Dennis 
Schmitz if you choose to know, elegantly, where you are 
in a poem at all times. Ronald J obnson if you appreciate 
a brilliant meadow when a poet puts you in the middle of 
one. And James Welch, particularly for his special subject 
matter: he's a Blackfoot Indian. Under any circumstances 
or conditions, watch. Almost all of the 54 repay a reading, 
even a strenuous one, and almost all promise more and 
better poetry. Their mistakes are instructive, their suc-
cesses delightful. In one fat volume, with entertaining 
full-page photographs and even more entertaining biog-
raphies-cum-manifestos, they make a zany, furry, some-
times furious, addition to the generative principle in 
anthologies. 

About ten years ago, Paul Carroll was the first editor 
to publish Kerouac, Burroughs and other important Beats 
in Big Table. An anthology like this proves that he remains 
more interested in what a poet is trying to do than in 
telling him what he ought to do--a healthy if heretical 
attitude.~ 


**Biafra: the threat of genocide becomes a reality**
**Author: Richard N. Henderson**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The war between Nigeria and the seces-
sionist Republic of Biafra is now entering 
a phase in which the densely populated 
heartland of Biafra will be generally over-
run. Many observers have described this 
war, with its already staggering toll of 
death by starvation, as a process of "geno-
cide." 

This word should never be bandied 
about lightly; for surely, should it accurate-
ly describe a situation in the world today, 
a morally concerned American public 
would be expected to demand immediate, 
drastic, multi-national efforts to forestall 
such an outcome. It is therefore extremely 
important for us all to examine very care-
fully what is happening in Biafra at this 
time. 

Eight years ago, the new nation of Ni-
geria was widely bailed as the greatest tri-
umph of British colonial policy. But since 
that time, the realities of political life in 
Nigeria have increasingly shifted from the 
glittering images of progressive nation-
hood which seem to fascinate most Ameri-
can and British diplomats arid officials. 

Many months ago, at the outset of the Bia-
fran secession, the image which these offi-
cials accepted was that of a strong, legally 
constituted nation embarking upon a 
"surgical" and humane operation on one 
of its segments, a segment which had been 
led astray by a clique of evil men. This 
police action, it was h~ld, would end in a 
few weeks at the most, since tbere was "qo 
popular support" behind the Biafran se-
cession. 

However, the realities of the Nigerian 
scene can be observed today through the 
eyewitness reports which have filtered out 
through the international news media since 
the war began, particularly those from re-
porters actually in Biafra or at the battle-
fronts. These accounts have clearly de-
scribed the stubborn devotion of the Bia-
fran people to the cause of their inde-
pendence in the face of tre~endous odds 
and suffering, and they have also reported 
the terrible consequences which have fol-
lowed when the Nigerian armies, made 
victorious by the sheer weight of military 
equipment supplied them by Britain and 
Russia, have confronted Biafran popula-
tions in those areas they have overrun. 

And yet as the death toll mounts, Ameri-
can and British officials continue to mini-
mize it or to dismiss it as an "internal 
matter" to be resolved "by the Nigerians 
themselves." Indeed, when the prediction 
that the people of Biafra had no will to 
fight proved totally false, the British in 
particular did not draw from this the logi-
cal conclusion that their doctrines had 
been wrong. Instead, they proceeded to 
rescue their erroneous theories by provid-
ing arms to the Nigerians, a response 
which our government has quite clearly 
supported. 

How has this state of affairs come 
about? Ultimately, basic responsibility for 
the breakdown itself rests squarely upon 
the shoulders of Great Britain, whose co-
lonial designs made it almost certain, from 
the beginning, that the Nigerian experi-
ment would fail. On the one hand, they 
saw to it that almost all of the economic, 
legal and educational progress would occur 
in the southern regions of Nigeria, not in 
the North, and they encouraged the peo-
ple of the overpopulated East (which later 
became Biafra) to travel as skilled work-
ers into the other regions, thus to serve as 
the primary social "glue" which bound the 
country together. But on the other hand, 
when these same people began leading 
nationalist, democratic movements to-
wards an independent "one Nigeria," the 
British created a parliamentary system 
which ensured that political power would 
predominantly reside in the more con-
genial hands of the authoritarian, tradi-
tional northern rulers, who themselves 
insisted prior to independence on either 
dominating the federation or seceding 
from it. 

For these two reasons, the failure of a 
nation was unknowingly but largely pre-
determined. The Federation began in 1960 
under a coalition between parties based in 
the North and the East, but an inexorable 
series of developments followed indepen-
dence: 

In 1962 the first ominous fracturing oc-
curred in the western region, as a result of 
relentless pressures exerted by the coali-
tion parties in power; by 1963 there were 
intense ethnic-group conflicts over census 
returns from various parts of the federa-
tion. In 1964 a breakdown of the coalition 
between the North and the East was fol-
lowed by party realignments and a dis-
orderly, disputed national election; in 1965 
Hausa people were murdered in consider-
able numbers in turbulent Yorubaland, 
lbos living in the North were publicly vili-
fied by prominent Northern leaders, and a 
blatant rigging--endorsed by the federal 
government--of the Western elections 
effectively destroyed public confidence in 
the electoral process. 

The first army coup of 1966, led by na-
tionalist young (mostly Eastern) officers, 
was widely hailed as the beginning of a 
new national order. But leadership of the 
state fell not to these men but to an older 
officer ~ho proved ineffectual. The extent 
of the coup's failure can be assessed from 
the fact that the countercoup which fol-
lowed was an affair of pure tribal wrath 
which did not even pretend to reflect na-
tional consensus. 

One cannot assess the subsequent de-
velopments of the Biafran secession and 
war without understanding three crucial 
facts. 

First, any careful observer of the Ni-
gerian scene with the slightest capacity for 
objectivity is aware of the enormous com-
plexity of the political maneuverings be-
fore the pogroms of 1966 and knows that 
all ethnic groups in Nigeria contributed 
their full share to the failure of unity. To 
be fair, there were elites from all parts of 
the country who were dedicated to true 
national unity, but these elites had to rely 
for support on grassroots which were 
basically tribalistic in outlook. To some 
degree at least, the populations of Eastern 
origin were the most strongly nationalistic, 
precisely because they had emigrated wide-
ly to other regions; but they also were 
irritants in those regions because of their 
commercial strength and their superior 
education, which sometimes led to arro-
gance. In addition, their position as agents 
of social mixture in those regions made 
them highly vulnerable as scapegoats 
when the basis for unity began to dissolve. 
But such facts hardly justify blaming these 
elements for the loss of unity itself; quite 
the contrary, they were its strongest ad-
vocates. When personal accounts of the 
dissolution become available (assuming 


that representatives of both sides survive 
to write them) the devotion of prominent 
Easterners to the ideal of national unity 
will be indubitable. 

Second, an observer must consider the 
outcome of the rise in intertribal hostility 
which derived from political competition 
on the national level. In September of 
1966 tens of thousands of Easterners were 
slaughtered in the North. Countless others 
were dispossessed, mutilated and terror-
ized, and well over a million such persons 
were driven from the North as refugees 
back to the East. It has been argued by 
some that this pogrom alone was enough 
to destroy the unity of N igeria; but when 
the Nigerian military government, which 
itself had ridden to power only a few 
months earlier over the corpses of more 
than t\VO hundred Eastern officers, pro-
ceeded to cap the pogroms with a public 
breach of the conciliatory agreements ne-
gotiated in Aburi, Ghana, the Biafran 
secession seemed to most Easterners to be 
the only realistic way of ensuring their 
security against what co.uld only appear to 
them as a devious, hostile federal power. 

But the third fact to be emphasized is 
much more important to the situation now, 
and it is the least widely understood. This 
is the fact that, from the time of the po-
groms onward, the Nigerian military gov-
ernment adopted the systematic tactic of 
making a single tribal group the scapegoat 
in order to isolate and minimize its op-
position and to generate a Nigerian unity 
where none initially existed. 

Since the leader of the East was an Ibo, 
since the majority of the eastern popula-
tion was Ibo, since most of the leaders of 
the first military coup had been Ibo, since 
no major lbo leaders had died in that 
earlier coup, and since most of the victims 
of the countercoup and of the pogroms had 
been Ibo, the.new Nigerian military gov-
ernment found it convenient to identify 
the lbos as evil conspirators, as scapegoats 
to be "blamed for the failure of the old fed-
eration. In this way, the Nigerians hoped 
to draw the support of other tribal groups 
away from the new Republic of Biafra and 
to forge a new basis of Nigerian unity 
through shared hatred of imagined Ibo 
viUains. 

The federal government bas of course 
consistently denied discriminating against 
any ethnic group in the federation. How-
ever, this denial gains no credibility from 
the "twelve-state" division of the country 
drawn up by that government, ostensibly 
to provide every major ethnic unit with its 
rightful territorial power base. Taking ac-
count of the fact that the Hausa, Yoruba 
and Ibo populations are, very roughly, 
comparable in numbers (the Hausa being 
somewhat more numerous than the Ibo, 
the Yoruba somewhat less), it turns out 
that in Colonel Gowon's twelve-state 
scheme, the Hausa and Yoruba would be 
allocated an effective majority control 
over three states apiece, covering a total 
area of over 150,000 square miles, while 
the Ibo population would be deprived of 
its most valuable lands and given control 
of a single state covering a tiny region of 
only 8,000 miles-much less than its right-
ful homeland. Quite obviously, this scheme 
was designed to impoverish the Ibo peo-
ple for the benefit of other tribal groups 
in the East and Midwest regions. 

Furthermore, the stereotyping and stig-
matizing of lbos has been the major theme 
of Nigerian government propaganda since 
the beginning of the war. Nobody can re-
main long in Nigeria unless be espouses 
(or at least defers to) this dogma. H owever, 
once a person has accepted it, he can then 
reconcile himself to (and in many cases, 
relish) the prospect that millions of Ibos 
may have to die in the interests of "keep-
ing Nigeria one." 

These policies have, in fact, been effec-
tive in molding attitudes throughout Ni-
geria. I spoke a few days ago to a serious, 
mild-mannered and scholarly official, who 
casually informed me about the war: After 
affirming his sympathy for his "Ibo broth-
ers" (an act which has now become some-
thing of a Nigerian national ritual) and 
pointing out that a hundred or so lbo stu-
dents are prominently in attendance at 
Ibadan University, be complained about 
the sympathy of the American public to-
ward Biafra and said it was unfortunate 
that Nigeria could not engage in the kinds 
of propaganda which would answer the 
Biafran claims. He said to me, "If we told 
the Americans the truth, told them the 
facts that the Ibo people have been evil 
and wicked and seek to destroy our coun-
try, they would ask us, 'Why then do you 
want them in your country at all?' " 

So I brought the question back to him 
and asked, "If you do think they are that 
way, why do you want them in your 
country?" "As they are now," he answered, 
"in their homeland in the center of our 
country, they are all like a cancer which 
will destroy us. If we leave them there, 
they will get arms from France and make 
war against us. We will never rest until 
we have completely rooted out this cancer 
from our country." 

The frightening implication of such 
views, which can be elicited by anybody 
from any Nigerian official who drops his 
guard in conversation, seems to be lost on 
our own government personnel. In fact, 
the leaders of our State Department appear 
to have accepted the Nigerian doctrine of 
total lbo culpability, and perhaps this re-
liance upon Nigerian views is what has led 
them to underestimate so grossly the death 
rate of starving Biafrans. Certainly the 
recent statements by our State Department 
parrot the official Nigerian view of this 
situation, and the views of some of our 
senators appear to have adopted the Ni-
gerian argument that all blame for the 
deaths in Biafra must be relegated to the 
Biafran leaders themselves. 

Clearly, however, the death toll by 
starvation is not the only horror in store 
for the people of Biafra. We all are aware 
that the Nigerian armies which have en-
circled the lbo heartlands are heavily 
armed with British and Russian weapons. 
But it can hardly be doubted, in view of 
reports from the front, that they are also 
strongly armed with the conviction of fa-
natics; that as they kiU Biafrans they are 
destroying a human "cancer" which they 
describe by the term "lbo." And these two 
facts, overwhelming military power and 
overwhelming righteous passion, add up, 
in my opinion, to genocide taking place in 
Biafra today. 

It matters very little whether or not this 
result is intended by General Gowoo, or 
whether a few thousand Ibos are at the 
same time being allowed by the Nigerians 
to live in various other parts of the coun-
try as helots of the state. Peace Corps peo-
ple living in Northern Nigeria at the time 
of the pogroms were astonished at the 
readiness with which ordinarily pacific 
local populations accepted the idea of ob-
literating communities of foreign migrants, 
even after years of peace and considerable 
integration. After 15 months of ferocious 
warfare, there is every probability that 
whatever constraints previously existed in


the populace have been long lost among 
the Nigerian armies in the field and that 
exhortations to be moderate, made by Ni-
gerian leaders at a distance, are unlikely to 
prove effective. 

However, yet another frightening de-
velopment is apparent as this war moves 
towards its seemingly inexorable outcome. 
Parts of the English and American press, 
which formerly reported the conflict with 
considerable objectivity and detail, are 
now beginning to present summaries which 
try to make the best of what is happening, 
to shield us all (including, one may pre-
sume, their authors) from the raw horror 
of recent events. We are being told that 
the starvation of millions is merely an 
efficient means of warfare which has time-
honored precedent, that this is, after all, 
the first time that an African country has 
proved itself by winning its own modern 
war, that the death rate in Biafra seems 
Jess alarming if we compare it with how 
many more might die in the future if 
Nigeria were to disintegrate further. 

Perhaps it is emotionally intolerable for 
us to bear the burden of horror and guilt 
which we would otherwise have to face; 
perhaps we must all react in this way. Per-
haps our State Department finds it neces-
sary to minimize, justify and dismiss the 
situation for the same compelling reasons. 
But I believe that other reactions remain 
possible. Although our government has 
made no effective efforts to stop the fight-
ing, it can still try to minimize the final 
slaughter by bringing the case decisively 
before the United Nations as a matter re-
quiring urgent international action. UN 
observers should be sent into Nigeria in 
large numbers, to forestall the genocide 
which is otherwise highly probable. Occa-
sional brief "official missions," guided by 
Nigerian troops, simply cannot suffice for 
this situation. And our country can mount, 
through the UN or through the various 
agencies now active on the scene, a truly 
massive relief program, rather than the 
token efforts we have made to date. 

But none of this can wait "until the war 
is ended." If we wait until that time, there 
may be very few Biafrans left to save. As 
we stand by, we are viewing a horror un-
folding with a toll in human lives that may 
rival that of the gas chambers of Europe. 
The time to act is now, even though we 
might prefer inaction. Surely we as ana-
tion are guided by some moral standards 
above our own immediate national self-
interest. ~ 

Richard N. Henderson, Associate Pro-
fessor of Anthropology, did research in 
Nigeria from 1960 until1962 and is cur-
rently writing a book on 1 bo society and 
culture. This article is based on testimony 
he presented before the African Affairs 
Subcommittee of the Senate Foreign Rela-
tions Committee a few weeks ago. 


**Comment**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

continued from page 2 
This transfer of identity could have as-
serted itself logically with a Rebecca-like 
osmosis engendered by Elsa's living in the 
house still haunted by the memory of the 
dead star. Or by a gradual encroachment 
of the part she is acting in her' screen 
debut. Or by the dominance of Zarkin's 
wildly egotistic personality. Or, most prob-
ably, by a combination of these elements. 
However, Aldrich is not so much inter-
ested in logic or probability as be is in 
ramming the power of illusion down the 
audience's throat. Accordingly, Novak/ 
Elsa begins assuming the personality of 
Novak/ Lylah long before any rational 
process can assert itself. 

At the very first audition, Elsa mo-
mentarily and inexplicably displays the 
inflections and manerisms of the dead 
Lylah. During a screening of one of 
Lylah's old films, the soundtrack is turned 
off and Elsa's voice drones on, an exact 
duplication of what was beard on screen. 
Grotesque flashbacks of Lylah's life are, 
for no apparent reason, seen from Elsa's 
point of view, despite the fact that she 
could not have been more than a tot when 
the events in question occurred. 

The characters of Elsa and Lylah shuttle 
back and forth wildly, outside of the film 
part Elsa is taking, outside of any possible 
transformation, outside of reason. In op-
position to the confusion imposed on the 
narrative, Aldrich exercises complete con-
trol over the shooting of the film: every 
set-up is carefuUy composed, every cut is 
precisely timed. The film's visual style is 
characterized by large plastic shapes as-
serting themselves in the foreground of the 
frame. This concreteness this control 
manifested in Lylah Clare's style clashes 
with and ultimately overrides the narrative 
which Aldrich has intentionally reduced 
to a shambles. In other words, although 
we do not understand how and why 
Novak/ Elsa switches characters, we are 
forced to accept her as Lylah when she is 
Lylah and as Elsa when she is Elsa. In 
spite of our rational objections, we are 
completely at the mercy of the director 
and his art. 

Thus, although the film may be con-
fusing on a first viewing, on a second it can 
be terrifying in its avowal of the triumph 
of illusion. For example, an under-the-
credits shot of Elsa making a funny face in 
front of an appliance shop as her image is 
honeycombed by closed-circuit TV on a 
dozed display sets is not so amusing the 
second time around. A preceding shot of 
Elsa writhing among Lylah's fan maga-
zines as the dead star's voice speaks off-
screen in harsh German is so chilling that 
it is difficult to comprehend bow the film 
was interpreted as "yummy" camp by so 
many reviewers. Difficult, that is, if we 
were not used to seeing this catch-all label 
applied to nearly every HoUywood film 
the knights of the keyboard fail to under-
stand. 

If at the beginning of Lylah Clare we 
are puzzled by the shifts between illusion 
and reality in Elsa's personality, as the 
film progresses they cease to merely shift 
but rather merge inextricably. By the time 
of the trapeze scene, we are watching a 
film of a film of an imaginary circus in 
which the allegorical death of Lylah and 
the real deaths of both Elsa and Lylah are



**Title: The Legend of Lylah Clare**
**Author: Martin L. Rubin**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
191 The New Journal! October 20, 1968 
contained. Yet, despite the indecipherable 
complexity of the scene, we still accept it. 
Aldrich presses his point savagely. As 
Elsa lies dying and the cameras incredibly 
continue to roll, director Zarkin screams 
at some confused extras, "Cry, you clowns! 
You're supposed to to cry!" They cry. In 
the next scene, at the premiere of "Lylah 
Clare-Film Star," we hear the audience 
respond obediently to the silent command 
of the now-invisible director. It need no 
longer be spoken, obviated by an intangi-
ble but unquestionable force. The bizarre 
final scene (a TV dog-food commercial 
which goes beserk) sums up the nature of 
this power; it exists autonomously and irra-
tionally in the medium itself. 

The Legend of Lylah Clare is a Piran-
dellian statement of such depth and feroc-
ity that even respectable efforts in the same 
vein such as Godard's Contempt and 
Minoelli's Two Weeks In Another Town 
pale somewhat in comparison. And 8* 
now looks like child's play. Aldrich has 
created the best film on film ever made and 
the most convincing conscious testi-
monial to the power of his art to control 
and refashion reality. "Live Ghost In An 
Enchanted Cemetery!" shouts a magazine 
cover showing Elsa Brinkman standing 
beneath a portrait of Lylah Clare. But no 
spooks and seances are necessary to haunt 
this strange story. It is a projected strip of 
cellulose acetate, 70mm wide, that gives 
concrete form to these phantasms; the 
medium is the medium. 

Martin L. Rubin


**Title: Letters**
**Author: Robert Brustein, Editors, Julian Beck**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

Letters 
To the editors: 
I am rather disturbed to discover in Mopsy 
Strange Kennedy's article on the Living 
Theatre a number of statements and atti-
tudes erroneously attributed to me. (A 
few of tlie students quoted in the piece 
have told me of a similar problem, but I 
shall mention only my own objections.) 
Since I was never interviewed by Mrs. 
Kennedy for this article, I am curious to 
determine how she came to such conclu-
sions and to try to set the record straight. 
First of all, I never called the Living 
Theatre "dull and tedious." Having been 
an admirer and supporter of this group 
since 1957 and the first to invite them to 
this country, I could hardly be expected 
to hold such a simplistic opinion. I have 
complicated but generally positive feelings 
about most of their productions, though I 
did say in a published statement that their 
fourth offering, Paradise Now, was 
"tedious and without much theatrical 
value, an opinion generally shared by 
those who did not participate in the 
proceedings on the stage." 
Secondly, I find it extremely presump-
tuous of Mrs. Kennedy to state that I am 
"frightened by the radicalization going on 
at the School of Drama," if such it can be 
called. The School bas consistently 
encouraged all forms of radical experi-
mentation, and will, I hope, always 
continue to do so. I am proud to say that 
our student body has managed to learn a 
great deal from the visit of the Living 
Theatre and to absorb its more valuable 
achievements, while rejecting what is 
spurious, without feeling compelled, as 
you somehow suggest, to annihilate all 
other existing forms of theatre. Thirdly, 
I am puzzled by Mrs. Kennedy's statement 
that I "sat in ... shirtsleeved gloom" when 
the Becks were in my office foUowing 
their arrest the previous evening. I don't 
remember my state of dress at the time, 
though Mrs. Kennedy was certainly not 
there to witness it; but rather than making 
me gloomy, the Living Theatre filled me 
with a sense of great exhilaration during 
its two-week stay. I resent Mrs. Kennedy's 
further implication that I was somehow 
forced by Judith and Julian Beck to permit 
them to continue with their performance. 
Everyone who knows the facts in this case 
is aware of how hard I fought to keep 
Paradise Now open for its concluding two 
nights. Nor did I suffer from what Mrs. 
Kennedy characterizes as a "painful 
headache" while the Company was here. 
Indeed, I was notably free from such com-
plaints until I read her article. 
In conclusion, I would like to add that 
while I was not surprised to be castigated 
by the New Haven Register and WNHC 
forhaving brought such unorthodox the-
atre to New Haven, I am astonished to find 
The New Journal describing this visit as 
if the Company had somehow materialized 
here against my will and to my dismay. 
This is obviously absurd. I trust that Tlu 
New Journal in future issues will cease 
resorting to a yellow journalism of the left 
in order to produce jazzy copy against a 
deadline. This article is most unworthy of 
the radical but factual standards set last 
year by your previous editor, Dan Yergin. 

Robert Brustein 

Editors' note: 
As Mr. Brustein knows, while Mrs. 
Kennedy did not personally interview him, 
several of the New Journal editors con-
ducted interviews for this article and spoke 
with him personally. We are well aware 
that Mr. Brustein was instrumental in 
bringing the Living Theatre back to the 
United States; rather than trying to attack 
him, or to suggest that he oppose their 
going on stage, we tried to present some 
of the problems that arose during the 
troupe's stay in New Haven. 

I just thought your article on the Living 
Theatre captured the spirit of our 
company, the action that took place in the 
Drama School and the University, and the 
work we are doing: both the positive and 
negative aspects. 

There is a type of student open to 
change who wasn't here 10 years ago but 
is now. 

Most institutions and people ought to 
change. It is a very good thing if the Drama 
School is changed and shaken by our visit 
or anyone else's. The word pleased is 
inadequate. I really dug The New Journal, 
and I hope the people at the Drama School 
will not only have the guts to verbalize 
the change but will have a chance to do 
something. 

Julian Beck 



~ ~ 
IS MAKING HISTORY! • 
MA RIE ANTOINETTE says: 
"Let them eat crepes." 
There are 110 varieties of 
authentic French Crepes ••••••••) 
5o., ........ ~ 
REST A~ 
CHAPEL SQUARE MAL L, 
NEW HAVEN 
Phone 777·5539 
P•rty facllitl" 
" PLAT DU JOUR" a different delectable entree every day. 

Save over 35% on student contracts 
Rosey's Tailors 
our 78th year, established 1888 
82 Wall Street, opposite Silliman 
telephone: 562-8336 
two hour dry cleaning service, 
pressing while you wait, 
altering, repairing, waterproofing, 
reweaving, chamois elbows, cold storage

New Haven's Leading Art Theatres 
LINCOLN 
Truffaut's 
THE BRIDE WORE BLACK 

CROWN 
Metzger's 
THERESE & ISABELLE 
The Strangest Love Story 
Ever Told 
33 BROADWAY, NEW HAVEN, CONN., 777-6271 

THE LARGEST LP SELECTION 
IN CONNECTICUT 
COME IN AND BROWSE FREELY 
DISCOUNTS ON ALL RECORDS


Directed By 
Harold Stone 
October 10-26, 1968 
Monday- Saturday Evenings 8:30 
Saturday Matinee 2:30 
Phone 562-9953 
Yale University Theatre, 222 York Street, New Haven 

