Publication date: May 2007
Volume: 39
Issue number: 5


**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Lauren Harrison
- Editor-in-Chief: Jonny Dach
- Managing Editors: Nicole Allan, Nick Handler
- Designer: Anna Zhang
- Senior Editors: Emily Koh, Sophia Lear
- Production Manager: Jordan Jacks
- Associate Editors: Tess Dearing, Aditi Ramakrishnan, Mitchell Reich
- Photo Editor: Benny Sachs
- On-line Editors: Ben Lasman, Ali Seitz
- Copy Editor: Laura Bennett
- Research Director: Laura Zax
- Staff: Patrick Hayden, Amy Rothschild
- Members and Directors: Joshua Civin, Peter B. Cooper, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, David Slifka, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong, John Swansburg
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Emily Bazelon, Anson M. Beard, Jr. Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O'Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**

4 Points of Departure
Minorities Report - Nicole Allan
Body of Work - Aditi Ramakrishnan
Typecast - Mitchell Reich
Getting Tenure Back on Track - Sophia Lear
Paradise Lost? - Tess Dearing
The Profile: Last Taps of the Typewriter - Michael Birnbaum
The Personal Essay: The Roads More Traveled - Emily Koh
The Critical Angle: The Shape of Things - Adriane Quinlan
Endnote: Bard-hopping - Nick Handler, Ben Lasman, & Ali Seitz


**A Master's Tea in Jonathan Edwards College**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 2**

Monday, April 23 at 4:00
Kate Davidson graduated from Yale College in 1998 and 
is now an associate producer for 
NPR's Weekend All Things Considered. Before joining ·. 
2 
NPR, Kate worked in public television 
and documentary ftlm. For her work reporting and 
producing "Saint and Indians," Kate was 
awarded the 2006 Edward R. Murrow Award for best 
national news documentary from the 
Radio-Television News Directors Association. She was 
also named a fmalist for the 
Livingston Award for Young Journalists.


**Getting Tenure Back on Track**
**Author: Sophia Lear**
**Page number(s): 30**

Changes improve the junior faculty experience.


**Paradise Lost?**
**Author: Tess Dearing**
**Page number(s): 36**

Elis recall a formative six weeks at TASP.


**Minority Report**
**Author: Nicole Allan**
**Page number(s): 12**

Building better anti-discrimination policy.


**Body of Work**
**Author: Aditi Ramakrishnan**
**Page number(s): 14**

Residents at Yale-New Haven amass a corpus.


**Typecast**
**Author: Mitchell Reich**
**Page number(s): 16**

Yale's Publications Council discusses racism in print.


**The Profile: Last Taps of the Typewriter**
**Author: Michael Birnbaum**
**Page number(s): 20**


**The Personal Essay: The Roads More Traveled**
**Author: Emily Koh**
**Page number(s): 40**


**The Critical Angle: The Shape of Things**
**Author: Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 43**


**Endnote: Bard-hopping**
**Author: Nick Handler, Ben Lasman, & Ali Seitz**
**Page number(s): 46**


**A Furtive Endeavor**
**Author: jordan jacks**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
... 
A Furtive Endeavor 
JosEPH'S FURS STOCKS COATS, CAR-
ries mink, and doesn't trust anyone. 
The doors are always locked, the 
windows bolted, and the furs tucked 
away in a two-story safe with twen-
ty-inch-thick walls. Outside, mid-
day traffic 
and it is always day, as 
Joseph's closes at 4:30 
passes the 
neighboring donut shops and comic 
book stores. But inside 1193 Chapel, 
in the vault, all is quiet. It is a veri-
table fortress of pelts. 

One cannot just walk into J o-
seph's Furs. A potential customer 
must ring a bell and pass a thor-
ough inspection through the win.:. 
dow to gain access to New Haven's 
only historic furrier. Inside the 
sable-lined grotto, fluorescent light 
falls upon cheap carpeting, valuable 
antique endtables, standard office 
desks, fratned art, and cheap travel 
calendars. There seems to be no divi-
sion between office and showroom, 
4 
work and retail. A few decrepit man-
nequins, their chests scored by lines 
of ink, stand in the shadow of the 
safe, regarding their reflections in the 
gold -framed mirrors _that ov.erwhelm 
the demure white wails. There are 
few visible furs. 

"You don't see any coats on the 
floor, now do you?" Fred Joseph asks, 
pointing to the massive wheeled lock 
on the safe behind him. Mr. Joseph, 77, 
is wearing a tan Bur berry coat. He and 
his wife, Selma, dressed in imported 
Italian lambskin, have owned Joseph's 
Furs for over fifty years, ever since the 
death of Mr. Joseph's father, Louis, who 
founded Joseph's on Chapel in 1910. 
The younger Mr. Joseph has been sell-
ing and storing furs since he was 18 
years old and has . now bequeathed 
most management duties to his son. 

References to family, as well as ref-
erences to the impermeability of the 
vault and the general dangers of the 
outside world, are mainstays of con-
versation with the Josephs. The fam-
ily has circled its wagons around its 
furs and views outsiders with extreme 
trepidation. They demand a business 
card, identification, and proof of this 
magazine's existence before granting 
me even the paltriest of details about 
the store. Mrs. Joseph does not trust 
me at all 
throughout my talk with 
her husband, she frequently tells him 
that she is nervous about the inter-
view, and that he doesn't have to di-
vulge any information. "Look at him," 
she says. "He could be anyone, coming 
off the street like that. I don't like this. 
Why is he looking at the lamps?" 

After Mrs. Joseph reveals that 
the Josephs suspect everyone who 
enters their store, and after I assure 
her that I am not out to rob them, the 
mood lightens considerably. "You 
don't look like the fur type," Mrs . 
Joseph tells me, and her · husband 
agrees. "People in New Haven Yale 
students 
used to dress in beauti-
ful clothes," he says, "not like you." 

As Mr. Joseph reminisces about his 
native city's bygone glory days as a 
center for fine tailors and clothiers, it 
becomes apparent that the three prin-
cipal facets · of the Josephs' lives 
furs, 
family, and the history through which 
both have traveled 
are all embodied 
in the establishment which has sup-
ported them for decades. 

. 
The Josephs' suspicion· of outsid-
ers has its roots in 1813, when the 
building still housing Joseph's Furs 
was constructed. In the early 20th cen-
tury, Joseph's father bought the space, 
which was then surrounded by beau-
tiful verandas and inlaid with intricate 
woodworking. When Mr. Joseph re-
stored the decaying building in 1959, 
he found a number of bottles of Lydia 
Pinkham, a 19th Century feminine 
hygiene product stashed in the build-
ing's several chimneys. He is convinced 
they were hidden there by prostitutes. 
"This place was probably a bordello," 
he says. 

Whatever the profession of the 
building's past tenants, one fact is cer-
tain: for a few nocturnal hours in 1959, 
1193 Chapel was occupied by thieves. 
Following the building's restoration, 
the Josephs came to work one day to 
find 86 holes drilled in the steel safe 
wall's only weak spo , and dozens of 
furs missing. Since the break-in, the 
Josephs have been even more vigilant 
in protecting not only their furs, but 
everything else for which they stand-
elegance, their family, the rich and 
storied history of clothes in New Ha-
ven. Though it will never account for 
the Josephs' bizarre interior decorat-
ing choices in an apt reaction to the 
decor, one painting hanging behind an 
empty coat rack portrays a large man 
burying his head in his hands 
the 
THE NEw JouRNAL 


--- Page 5 ---

pair's story explains much of the odd-
ity that permeates their sequestered 
office. The harsh mistrust, the de-
mands for a business card, the subse-
quent reprimands for the absence of a 
business card, the locked doors, the 
strangely coatless showroom, the in-
surance policy that covers "for every-
thing, up to insurrection and atomic 
attack," and the monolithic steel safe 
begin to make, like fur, an extrava-
gantly eccentric sort of sense. 

After the Josephs have warmed up 
to me--perhaps due to an hour of vig-
orous nodding in feigned agreement 
about matters of New Haven history 
I know nothing about-! am allowed 
to see the inside of the vault, an amaz-
ing display of trust. Even then, I am 
made to turn my back as the door is 
unlocked through a complicated pro-
cedure. To make sure I am not looking, 
Selma comes over to distract me with 
a newspaper article. Once Mr. Joseph 
opens the vault, he subtly blocks my 
entrance with his entire body, permit-
ting me to stand in the doorway and 
feel the carefully calibrated forty-de-
gree air flowing through two stories 
of fur coats organized by gender, type, 
and size. The sight of so many coats, all 
the size of the human bodies that wear 
them, reinforces the humanity behind 
the Josephs' bizarre suspicion of man-
kind. They suspect everyone, but they 
love New Haven, they lovehistory, they 
love family-and for them, fur is all of 
these things. 

If they don't suspect you of mal-
feasance, if they let you peer into a 
concrete bunker full of old women's 
mink, then you must be kin, worthy of 
their wisdom as elders. At the end of 
the day, Mrs. Joseph tells me to always 
listen to my mother. Mr. Joseph offers 
his own advice, fatherly wisdom he no 
doubt imparts to his son and business 
partner. "Wannabe s~ccessful? Marry 
a rich girl. It's what I did." 
-jordan jacks 
May 2007 


**Harbinger of Broom**
**Author: Laura Zax**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

lT IS A LITTLE KNOWN FACT THAT, OF 
all broom-based sports, curling is sec-
ond in popularity only to quidditch. 

It is a littler known fact that, this 
past fall, the quirky Scottish pastime 
was added to the roster of Yale's club 
sports teams. Enter Michael Lindsay, 
the athletic entrepreneur who is sell-
ing Yalies on this bizarre and misun-
derstood game. 

Lindsay's passion for curling only 
slightly precedes the founding ofYale's 
CurlingClub.The20060lympicGames 
gave the obscure sport some welcome 
publicity, and he was an immediate 
curling convert. "I became obsessed," 
says Lindsay, who first set his Tivo to 
record every match, and then set out 
to start a curling team at Yale. After ral-
lying support by searching for Yalies 
who had listed" curling" as a Facebook 
interest, Lindsay's brainchild passed 
the scrutiny of the Club SportS Advi-
sory Board and was soon registered as 
an official club sport. 

For Lindsay, the experience 
smacked of deja vu. During the 2000 
Olympic Games, he had a similar 
love affair with fencing. A student in 
the ninth grade at the time, he soon 
founded a fencing team at his high 
school. "I wasn't good at sports," 
says Lindsay with a good-natured 
laugh. 

Rather, he was good with 
swords. By his senior year, the team 
he had started was competing for the 
state championship. Lindsay contin-
ued his fencing career at Yale, com-
peting on the Varsity team for two 
years before devoting his full atten-
tion to the nascent curling club. 

Six months after he first fell for 
curling, Lindsay showed up at the 
Nutmeg Curling Club, a new curling 
facility in Bridgeport, CT, for the Yale 
CurlingClub'sfirstpractice.ltwasmid-
October 2006, and he had a handful of 
other would-be curlers in tow-a mot-
ley crew, mostly of his close friends, 
whom he had convinced with some 
difficulty to join the team. He also had 
his fingers crossed. The Berkeley ju-
nior, so passionate about curling, had 
never curled before in his life. "I had 
all of my eggs in one very risky basket," 
Lindsay admits. But this fringe sport 
enthusiast had struck upon another 
success, and curling turned out to be 
as much fun to play as, for most, it is 
to mock. 

An unconventional union of 
physical skill and strategy, curling is 
a perfect sport for the scholar-ath-
lete yearning to consider himself in 
a class above the stereotypical dumb 
jock. The game pits two teams of 
four against each other in ten inning-
like rounds called "ends." The teams 
take turns delivering a 44-pound 
granite stone down the "sheet," an 
alley of ice leading to the target area 
or "house." Sweepers precede the 
sliding stone, brushing the ice to re-
duce friction. Contact with the stone 
itself is an infraction called "burning." 
The sweepers help direct the stone to 
a targeted resting place determined 
by the "skip," the team's captain and 
chief of strategy. This entire process 
looks ridiculous. 

Unsurprisingly, some skeptics 
question this bizarre spectacle's sta-
tus as a sport. After all, athletic ability, 
physical fitness, and strength are by 
no means requisites-one of Nut-
meg's members is approaching her 
ninetieth birthday. "You can be pret-
ty horribly out of shape and still curl," 
says the team's treasurer, Matthew 
Lawler. Even avid dust-busters aren't 
necessarily at an advantage. "Brooms 
and I had never really gotten along 
before," says Lindsay, who showed 
no particular talent for sweeping as a 
5 


--- Page 6 ---

child. In fact, "Chess-on-ice,'' as curl-
ing is commonly called, often looks 
most like a life-sized board game, a 
sophisticated reenactment of Chutes 
and Ladders. Even Lawler is reluc-
tant to classify it as a sport. "I'd call it 
a 'skilled activity,'" Lawler says. 

But curling's biggest threat isn't 
its debated classification. The Club 
Sports Advisory Board, which ac-
knowledges fishing and even ball-
room dancing as sports, had no trou-
ble bestowing the title. If curling has 
anything to worry about, it's global 
warming." Curlingliterallyfollows the 
ice patterns of the world," says Lind-
say, as he maps out curling's strong-
holdsinAmerica Wisconsin, Illinois, 
and other states along the border 
between the U.S. and Canada, where 
curling is as· popular as ice hockey. 

Climactic restrictions have prevented 
the sport, which Lindsay and others 
claim is infectious, from infiltrating 
the athletic mainstream. "Florida is . 
not big on curling just yet," Lindsay 
jokes. But curling's popularity is rising 
faster than the ice caps are melting. 
Though curling was first introduced as 
an 0 lympic sport in 1998, the U.S. curl-
ing team's bronze medal in last year's 
Olympic Games has precipitated "the 
. perfect storm for curling" in the States, 
according to Lindsay. 

In fact, most of the other clubs 
Yale played against at the team's first 
match in early February were also in 
their starting year. "We went in ready 
to kick some ass," said Lindsay. And 
they did. A team of Yale freshmen 
and sophomores, competing as a "B-
team" alongside Yale's "A-Team" of 
juniors and seniors, won the tourna-
ment. Having gained confidence from 
the unexpected victory, a team of four 
Bulldogs decided to head, brooms 
in hands, to the national "bonspiel," 
or tournament, at the North Shore 
Curling Club in Chicago. 

When 
one player dropped out and another 
team member's flight from Kennedy 
Airport was snowed in, the team was 
debilitatingly halved. By picking up 
alternates, the remainder of Yale's 
6 
team the diehard duo of Lindsay 
and Freshman Edward Chang still 
managed to participate in the tourna-
ment. The severely handicapped team 
finished at nationals with a 0-3 record, 
two of the losses having come in the 
final throw of the match. 

Though the attitude may be un-
familiar to the typical Yalie, winning 
and losing are a mere side dish in this 
unconventional sport. At its. heart is 
"the spirit of curling," an age-old tradi-
tion of beer-drinking, good sports-
manship, and a vibrant pin, patch, and 
button culture. "The essence of the 
game is to enjoy the game," said Jim 
Meinhold, Nutmeg's Director of Col-
lege and Youth Curling, and it is advice 
worth heeding. The over-stimulated 
and overbooked Yalie might be sur-
prised, on adding this activity to her 
schedule, to learn what productive 
activity springs from, as Lindsay puts 
it, "stones, ice, and nothing to do." 
-Laura Zax 


**Going Coastal**
**Author:  (unattributed)**
**Page number(s): 6**

Shades, radios in from the distant 
Planet of Hollywood. Heresy. 

Most people in Hollywood have 
big dreams. So do most people at Yale. 
Kevin Winston, who graduated from 
Yale in 1991, called his dream Yale in 
Hollywood. A few years ago, he and 
several alumni in the entertainment 
industry began to plan entertainment-
related events for the Yale Club of 
Southern California. At a happy hour 
in 2002, held at a bar owned by Matt 
Damon and Ben Affleck, one hundred 
Yale alumni made appearances. Af-
ter the event's success, Winston and 
a few other Yalies decided to forge 
ahead under the banner"YaleinHolly-
wood.'' First,morehappyhours. Then 
panels. Panels on "How I got into the 
Biz," panels on video games, panels on 
"The Marketing of Winnie the Pooh to 
a Global Audience." An e-mail list of 
eight hundred. And every summer 
since . 2003, an internship program, 
feeding current Yale students into the 
system. 

· 
As it turns out, there are some 
things Theater Studies 110 just can't 
teach you. As Junior Dariush Nothaft, 
current president of Bulldog Produc-
tions and a San Diego native who 
worked at a production .management 
firm last summer as part of Yale in 
Hollywood, says, "The West Coast is a 
__..;.,- completely different animal. It hasn't 
-
really been a part of Yale culture." Win-
YALE STUDENTS HAVE RECENTLY DIS-
covered a small planet exerting a 
stronger and stronger pull on New 
Haven: its name is Hollywood, and 
there, everything you thought you 
know, is no more. Take, for instance, 
the value of a Yale degree. "It doesn't 
matter that you went to Yale," Lynd-
sey Ford 'OS, former member of 
ston agrees. "At Yale, Sunday through 
Wednesdayyoustudy. Thursday,may-
beyougoout. Friday, Saturday: Toads." 
He gazes through ocean-blue contact 
.lenses to the sidewalk of Sunset Bou-
levard, where his dog; Achilles, waits. 
Achilles, Winston explains, was named 
fortheBradPittcharacterin Troy. "Hol-
lywood is very much about meeting 
people. It's pretty much the opposite 
of Yale. You go out Friday, Saturday, 
and every weekday to, say, a Yale in 
Hollywood event." 

Winston never dreamed he'd 
land in L.A. After Yale, he attended 
graduate school "at that other place, 
· in Boston," and then zipped off to L.A. 



**A Delicate Music**
**Author: Amy Rothschild**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
to work as a consultant for McKinsey. 
• 
ing professional approach to his life in 
Hollywood, Dolan and his roommates 
are not in a rush to the top. Dolan 
knows how his friends in New York 
view his choices. "We're on the West 
Coast. We just do coke, .exercise and 
tan,"hesaystheatrically. "Thaes Yalies' 
fear." Like the film industry, this alter-
!'Non-risky,,, he says. But the entertain-
ment industry proved alluring, almost 
contagious. "With high risk comes, po-
tentially, reward.'' Winston, right now, 
is working on an independent proj-
ect somemightcallita "spec," others, 
a "spec of a spec," still others a "pitch." 
Winston calls it strictly confidential. 
There's more than one way to 
walk the walk of fame, and it doesn't 
even have to involve actual fame, or 
money or, since it is L.A~, walking. If 
Kevin Winston is a Hollywood block-
buster, the seven alumni from the 
Class of 2005 
the hipsters, the for-
mer Shades singers, Duke's Men, and 
dancers 
are the independent releas-
eswaitingfortheircultfollowing. Their 
home, the "WiltonHilton," is the closest 
thing L.A. has to a residential college. 
Built in 1911, the spacious house on 
Wilton Place in Hollywood has enough 
amenities to make a JE student feel 
right at home: antique gas lines, peel-
ing paint and wide wooden staircases 
worn at the center from footprints. 
. native lifestyle is alluring and addic-
tive, illuminated by the neon glow of 
Planet Hollywood. 
One late afternoon between 
. 
Christmas and New Year's, Summer 
Aubrey '05, lounging on a red velvet 
couch, blinks and surveys the scene. 
Polaroid pictures are displayed in a 
row on the piano. Menorahs line the 
front hall. In the corner, a sad Christ-
mas tree sits decked in candy canes. 
On the table lies a mess of DVDs, cere-
al bowls doubling as tea cups, a bottle 
of Tylenol. "We had a bit of a party last 
night," Aubrey explains. 
"Your goal might be to write 
screenplays and not necessarily sell · 
them. It's a different definition of suc-
cess than is accepted/' Aubrey says. · 
She recently completed a project de-
signing an internationally themed re-
sort. Ford, the Shades alum, recently 
finished recording the in-store music _ 
for Build-a-Bear Workshops. Some 
are supported by their parents, and 
some support themselves. They all 
tutor. "It's selling out, in a way, help-
ing the wealthy kids of L.A.," laments 
one time WhiffenpoofThomas Dolan. 
While Wmston takes a hard-driv-
May 2007 
THE STAFF AT THE YALE CoLLECTION 
of Musical Instruments likes to tell a 
story about a nine-year-old boy who 
approached the single-manual harp-
sichord available for public use on 
the second floor of the Collection 
and began to play a Bach Fugue. This 
came as something of a surprise to the 
boy's parents, who had never heard 
him play a single note. Their child, it 
turned out, had been learning to play 
at a neighbor's house. 
Resting one hand on the same 
harpsichord, Susan E. Thompson, the 
Collection's curator, tells this story 
with an air of satisfaction. Near her 
sit a 1736 Stradivarius violin, a grand 
piano that Wagner used for a decade, 
and two small epinettes that might 
and Sch 
·The 
far Books 
Yale .and Books 
by·Aiumni and 
Wend 
A f""'\:,..;h 
-
Se~'·-
w 
L.ll:;,;unctive .··• R:cbon 
ofYafe Ap 
Gifts 
and · 
have belonged to Marie Antoinette. 
Thompson, holding a cup of tea, ges-
tures toward the piano. It is tiny, with 
narrow keys, perfect for a woman 
with exceptionally small hands and 
a light, practiced touch. "We call this 
the eggshell instrument," she says in a 
soft voice before removing the protec-
tive case and playing a few notes. The 
sound that comes out is delicate; her 
fingers no more than graze the keys. 
Such musical gems seem in-
congruous in the former fraternity 
house on 15 Hillhouse that holds 
the instruments. The Collection be-
gan in 1900 with a gift from Morris 
Steinert, a local piano merchant and 
founder of the New Haven Sym-
phony Orchestra. To thank the Uni-
versity for allowing the Symphony 
to rehearse on campus, Steinert do-
nated a number of keyboards which 
were originally displayed in Wool-
sey Hall as the first Yale Collection 
of Musical Instruments. 
The Collection's second major 
donor watches over the instruments 
from a painting that hangs on the sec-
ond floor. Belle Skinner, depicted in 
a red dress with her sister Katharine, 
was a Holyoke textile heiress whose 
nephews attended Yale. Aside from 
donating several instruments to Yale's 
Collection, Skinner was responsible 
for moving the Collection to its pres-
ent location. 
The building on Hillhouse gave 
the Collection a space in which it could 
come alive, a place where instruments 
could be seen and heard. Thompson 
raises her arm high above her head, 
notes the great acoustics in the space, 
and snaps. Pleased with the full sound 
her fingers make, she continues walk-
ing around the room, which houses a 
permanent exhibit of keyboard instru-
ments widely regarded as the jewel of 
the collection. 
The second floor exhibit visu-
ally summarizes the keyboard's his-
tory. Thompson's discussion of the 
instruments with NicholasRenouf, the 
congenial Associate Curator, makes it 
evident that no one piece exists in iso-
lation. Each is tied to an ancestor and 
an heir, an important predecessor and 
a later imitation. Instruments in the 
Collection are displayed not only as art 
objects, but also as historical records. 
When asked about Wagner's piano, 
Renouf presents a thorough history of 
the instrument's precedent and its di-
rect descendent, which Wagner called 
the instrument of his dreams. 
To the untrained eye, however, 
the evolution and importance of cer-
tain instruments is not immediately 
apparent. Some displays have almost 
universal appeal; the recorder-like 
tonette, "America's favorite pre-band 
instrument," catches every visitor's 
eye. Its display case, sprinkled with 
clippings 
from 
"Tonette 
News," 
gives such valuable advice as "Don't 
blow your instrument in class while 
the teacher is talking." 
A current exhibit of bells from 
around the world is also popular, dis-
playing everything from Japanese 
temple bells, to French table bells 
(one of which is shaped like Napo-
leon), to a book entitled "The Art of 
Ringing, "whichcontains,amongother 
things, obituaries of bell carillonneurs. 
The quieter, grander exhibits, though, 
aren't very accessible, as the textual 
explanation accompanying each in-
strument is short. 
Thompson and Renouf both 
want to incorporate more explana-
tory text and even a sound system to 
accompany the instruments, but the 
building's small size makes the cura-
tors' availability to visitors important. 
Not all of the instruments can be on 
display at any given time, so their cu-
rators emphasize quality over quan-
tity. "There has never been any desire 
forcomprehension, "Renoufsays. "The 
instruments in the Collection are all 
superb examples." However superb, 
though, the Collection's limited hours 
make it difficult for the public to gain 
access. It exists as a compromise be-
tween museum and special collection. 
While the British Art Center and the 
Peabody hold more open hours, most 
of the University's specialized hold-
ings are open only through appoint-
ment and have no exhibits. 
Interim Director Leon Plantinga 
and InternElizabeth Weinfield arehelp-
ing Thompson and Renouf expand the 
scope of visitors. The Collection al-
ready serves as a resource for music 
students, and art classes visit periodi-
cally to sketch the instruments. Even-
tually, the staff envisions art openings, 
talks, and other events to attract more 
undergraduates. Another promising 
idea is a composition contest open to 
the School of Music in which students 
would use instruments in the Collec-
tion as inspiration for a musical piece. 
The Collection is also open to 
the public through its concert series, 
which takes advantage of the marvel-
ous acoustics that Thompson praises. 
The keyboards on the second floor 
rest on rolling platforms that allow the 
gallery to be transformed into a hun-
dred-seat concert hall. These concerts 
are often performed on restored in-
struments from the Collection. As the 
concert musicians begin, history ani-
mates, as unexpected and delightful 
as a Bach Fugue played by a secretly 
musical nine-year-old boy. 
-Lizzy Star


**Talk of the Town**
**Author: Lizzy Star**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

SUNRISE ON THE RIVER: A QUAINT 
wooden sea wall stands in a spiked 
silhouette; red and white lobster 
boats bob by the dock; delicate blues 
and pinks play on the shimmering 
water. "Good one--for the village 
look," says Bill. His audience, lean-
ing in for a closer look, agrees. You'd 
guess the photograph was of an 
old fishing village, not of the mod-
ern banks of the Quinnipiac just a 
few miles northeast of Yale in Fair 
Haven. 
Bill is one of nine members of 
the Chatham Square photography 
project, which meets in the base-
ment of the tiny Fair Haven public 
library. Some experienced members 
adjust their color schemes on Photo-
shop; others aren't sure how to use 
the flash. All venture out with cam-
eras and a desire to show that Fair 
Haven-specifically, their own nine-
block neighborhood of Chatham 
Square-gets a bad rap. "Yale slams 
this neighborhood all the time," says 
Heather, who took the sunrise pic-
tures. "It's not fair." If Yalies think of 
Fair Haven at all, they probably as-
sociate the neighborhood with drugs 
and prostitution. But the many resi-
dents of Chatham Square are not ones 
to sit back and be dismissed. In the 
past few years, with the help of the 
Community Foundation of Greater 
New Haven, Chatham Square lo-
cals have thrown themselves into the 
work of reviving their neighborhood 
and restoring its image as safe, civic-
minded, and diverse. 
A community historically pop-
ulated by waves of immigrants from 
all over Europe, Latin America, and 
the United States, Chatham Square 
has weathered diverse circumstances: 
once a bustling marketplace, it fell 
into disrepair in the middle of the last 
century and has only recently recov-
ered some of its former vibrancy. A 
large Puerto Rican population of both 
recent immigrants and long time resi-
dents lives side-by-side with eighty-
year-old German immigrants and 
twenty-year-old NYU Art School 
grads. A dual-language public school 
does its best to promote neighbor-
hood unity. The neighborhood hums 
with untold history. 
Determined to preserve-and 
to advertise-the fibric of Chatham 
Square, the Community Foundation 
turned to Andy Horowitz, Yale Class 
of 2003. Horowitz is the founder and 
director of the New Haven Oral His-
tory Project, run out of the Yale His-
tory Department. A stroke of luck 
sent the Community Foundation to 
Horowitz just as he was approached 
by another organization, the under-
graduate Yale Anthropology Society. 
Anthropology majors, chronically 
low on funding for field work, want-
ed hands-on experience, and Cha-
tham Square wanted its stories heard. 
Horowitz brought the two together, 
and the Yale Anthropology Ethnog-
raphy Project was born. 
The Ethnography Project stu-
dents receive training from Horowitz 
in oral history interviewing before 
heading into Chatham Square to re-
cord the stories of its residents. In 
a side project using Sudler funding, 
Yale students formed the Chatham 
Square photography group, which 
equips Chatham locals like Heather 
and Bill with cameras to take pictures 
of their neighborhood. The Ethnog-
raphy Project is planning a local ex-
hibit in early May that will feature the 
highlights of the collected oral histo-
ries and the work of the photography 
group. 
As the interviewers have dis-
covered, however, the people of Cha-
tham Square are not unified in their 
enthusiasm for the neighborhood. 
Some residents speak of the tension 
between English-speaking locals and 
Spanish-speaking immigrants. Not 
everyone, moreover, has opened 
their doors to Yale students with 
tape recorders. While the interview-
ees are diverse in age, language, and 
background, they are a self-selecting 
group. Consequently, the voice of the 
neighborhood is coming from those 
who care about it most. Chatham 
Square activists "want to show off 
their neighborhood," says Horow-
itz. They are interested not only in 
recording the area's history but mar-
keting it to potential homebuyers. As 
students gain field experience and 
locals build a potential promotional 
tool, a particular version of Chatham 
Square history emerges. This sense of 
history, while perhaps biased towards 
the positive, offers new pride to a 
community on the brink of revival. 
Chatham Square is starting to 
come to terms with its identity. Back 
in the library basement, Heather's 
husband shows the group his own 
shot of dawn on the Quinnipiac Riv-
er. On the left, an old-fashioned lan-
tern glows against a clapboard house. 
Across the top of the picture runs a 
jagged black tangle of electrical wires, 
cutting into the perfect silver of the 
sky. "It's too bad about those wires," 
a woman sighs. The group contem-
plates the shot in silence; maybe the 
wires could be cropped out. Then: "I 
don't know ... maybe not," someone 
says, and others start to speak up, too. 
The diverse elements bring balance 
to the composition; they make a nice 
contrast against the pale sky. Besides, 
someone points out, this is a picture 
of a real place, and the wires are re-
ally there. Yes, the group agrees: the 
wires stay. 
-Amy Fish


**Cutting a Deal**
**Author: Amy Fish**
**Page number(s): 9**

"PEOPLE ARE NEVER EXCITED TO GEt 
a phone call from an 18-year-old 
who wants to come over and throw 
knives at your face," says Saybrook 
Junior Doug Scott. But it is his job



**Title: The Cutco Sales Force**
**Author: Pat Hayden**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
to get them excited, and Scott is good 
at his job. Like forty thousand other 
college students in the United States 
and Canada, Scott is a representative 
of Cutco Cutlery, a massive knife-
selling corporation that grosses $144 
million ~n domestic sales each year. 
In the summer of 2005, Scott sold 
thirty thousand dollars' worth of 
Cutco products. 

First formed in 1949, Cutco is 
now paired with Vector Marketing 
as a subsidiary of Alcas Corporation. 
Cutco succeeds in part because of 
the quality of its products, but l;ugely 
because of its relentless recruitment 
of ambitious young salespeople. The 
company seizes and profits off their 
new representatives' social networks, 
telling employees to "sell to everyone 
you know. "Beginning representatives 
are responsible for 75% of Cutco's 
sales, though most quickly exhaust 
their contact lists and enthusiasm. 

In a throwback to the days of 
Arthur Miller, the upper-middle class 
teenagers who form the bulk of Cut-
co's sales team travel to homes, make 
light conversation with their hosts, 
and then casually invite themselves 
into the kitchen cabinets, where they 
discover the horror of dull knives and 
wooden handles. Scott tells his cus-
tomers to "have fun spending five 
years cutting your steak tonight" and 
informs them that, with all the bacte-
ria in a wooden handle, they may as 
well feed the bubonic plague to their 
children. He then performs a series 
of choreographed and impressive 
demonstrations, a cost comparison, 
and a package pitch, invariably sell-
ing a few knives or, at the very least, 
an ice cream scoop. Emphasizing the 
value of personal charisma, Scott ad-
vises future representatives, "You bet-
ter believe that if your customer has 
kids, you're on the floor playing with 
those babies and making them love 
you." Though this tactic stretches the 
traditional forms of solicitation, the 
cutlery giant continues to reel in bud-
ding professionals of college age with 
a polished image of enterprise. 

The triumph of Vector Market-
ing, more than its ability to script 
clever presentations, is in its success 
in understanding our generation. Sar-
ah Andrus, the director of academic 
programs at Vector Marketing, cites a 
number of studies that her firm uses 
to effectively recruit salespeople from 
the 18-24 age bracket. Speaking with 
a combination of masterful articula-
tion and anecdotes, Andrus relates 
that "entrepreneurship" is on the rise 
in Generation Y, a phenomenon that 
she breathlessly describes as "just 
wonderful." Cu teo has no trou blefind-
ing representatives on college cam-
puses, she explains, because it un-
derstands that students need "instant 
gratification" and relish the thought 
of self-made success. Homemakers 
and weekend barbecues fuel the con-
sumption of Cutco's cutlery, but it is 
the young sellers who tirelessly push 
it forward. 

Dan Carey, a professor of social 
psychology at Notre Dame Univer-
sity who us-es Cutco in his discussion 
of savvy compliance techniques, be-
lieves the cutlery giant's business 
strategy "reads like a social psychol-
ogy text book." Discussing Cutco 
provokes immediate reactions from 
his students, since many own Cutco 
knives or have worked for the com-
pany in the past. Carey explains that 
Vector Marketing's appeal is often 
based on its flashy presentation. 

For KevinChiu,aSaybrookfresh-
man who sold Cutco knives last sum-
mer, the recruiting process began 
when a little girl danced around his 
high school graduation with a basket 
of Vector Marketing recruiting infor-
mation. The materials she gave him 
contained few direct references to 
cutlery, and the interview and train-
ing process consisted of clean-cut 
professionals pitching an exciting op-
portunity to earn money and improve 
his transcript. At Scott's branch, repre-
sentatives galvanized the trainees by 
running into the room at choice mo-
ments and yellingupdates: "Kathy just 
made $350! Tom did $800!" Elated by 
the style and polish of the company, 
many new representatives become 
instantly loyal. In this early stage of 
Cutco courtship, Scott recalls feeling 
"like you are a part of this bustling lit-
tle operation, even if you don't know 
what it is." 

Eventually, experienced trainers 
bring out the knives, detail the script-
ed phone calls, and outline the one-
hour in-horne presentations. While 
young salespeople initially enter the 
Cutco world intoxicated by its refined 
image, the company's complicated 
system of hierarchies, rankings, and 
promotions keeps them among the 
Cutco faithful. Both Chiu and Scott 
outdid their rivals, selling enough 
knives to climb in" commission brack-
ets." They speak reverently of the top 
levelsof"FieldServiceMangers." Chiu 
describes how weekly Cutco newslet-
ters listing national rankings of sales-
people stoked his competitive nature, 
and Scott mentions the looming 
perks of successful sales. "Selling is 
addictiveforme, "Scottexplains. "They 
always have these promos-contests, 
conferences, and events that keep 
you going. They have all these levels-
you want to be 'keystaff,'whichliteral-
ly means that you just get a key to put 
on your shirt.'' Despite the startlingly 
dull nature of the product, the allure 
of briefcases, pinstripes, and promo-
tions seizes the ambitious minds of 
college-age men and women. 

Rosa Ayala, a Davenport sopho-
more who raked in eight thousand 
dollars during het Cutco summer and 
has since been promoted to manage-
ment, recognizes the Cutco stigma 
but sees the income as a means to an 
end. While other Yalies truck them-
selves to internships around the coun-
try, where they break countless fax 
machines and learn to conceal their 
Face book voyeurism, Rosa points out 
that the Cutco system mixes personal 
interaction with rewards and recogni-
tion. "I want to be a teacher,'' she says, 
"and I plan to use every bit of what I 
make from Cutco." Yet her ambition 
does not imply a lack ofloyalty. "Ilove 
the product," she explains. "I wouldn't 
be doing sales if I didn't." 

Scott is similarly enthusiastic 
about bringing knives to the door-
steps of America." I love this company," 
he grins, "even though everyone from 
the top down knows it's a -scam.~' 
-Pat Hayden 
• 
Illustrations by Benny Sachs and Ali Seitz 
May 2007 



**Title: SNAPSHOT Minority Report**
**Author: Nicole Allan**
**Page number(s): 12**

D
espite Anhur 
T~cker's 1: 
years of consuucuon expen-
ence, people often assume he's 
an unskilled laborer. He rarely gets 
hired to complete the more lucrative 
"gravy work," or finishing. touches, on 
a project. Art:hur Tucker ts black. He 
thinks this might be why. 

Though Tucker didn't attend City 
Hall's public hearing on minority con-
struction hiring in early March, he was 
represented in absentia by a fu~ house 
of people with similar complamts. ~n 
an impassioned and unexpected twtst, 
these minority construction workers 
pitted themselves against a woman 
who has done more to help them find 
jobs in New Haven ov.er the ~as~ six 
years than anyone has m the ctty s re-
cent history. 

ally have a clear mission." Now, t~e 
CEO investigates employment dts-
crimination, enforces construction 
contracts, and inspects sites to ensure 
regulations are being followed. ~ur­
ingJefferson's second yea~ on the_Job, 
the CEO conducted 508 mspecnons. 
Last year, it completed 1,061. 

N
ew Haven's Commission on 
Equal OpportUnities is located 
in a bustling City Hall office that has 
long been too small for i~s occupants. 
In addition to these duttes, Jef-
ferson runs a construction training 
program that was transferred to her 
office after its rocky start at the Work-
force Alliance. Between 1999, when 
the Construction Workforce Initia-
tive began, and 2001, when Jefferson 
took the reins, less than one hundred 
residents graduated from the program. 
This tally was surpassed within the 
first year of Jefferson's tenure. Ideally, 
CWI graduates are mat~hed wi.th con-
tractors working on Ctty proJects, a 
set-up that benefits all panics-the mi-
norities need jobs and the contractors 
need minorities-as New Haven law 
mandates that 25% of the hours spent 
on City-funded construction projects 
must be logged by minority workers. 

Jefferson also assumed cont!ol of the 
previously un-enforced ProJect Labor 
Agreement, which s~tes that 25%. of 
the hours spent on ctty consuuctton 
projects must be completed by New 
Haven union workers. In yet another 
gesture of confidence last fall, the Ci~ 
gave her office employment supe~t­
sion duties at all New Haven Housmg 
Authority worksites. 

Six years after these structural 
shifts the CE.O b.as· .pushed New 
Have~ contractors' minority hiring 
rates higher than any other city in 
Connecticut. Countless people have 
Nichole Jefferson, prestdent of the 
CEO, has tucked pit<;hers of fake 
flowers between the heaps of paper 
that cover her office: -As she· plucks 
bulging files from the visu~ chaos, 
it is clear that she loves her JOb and 
does it well. 

The Commission-founded in 
1964 and one of the oldest munici-
pal civil rights agencies in the cou?-
try-has not always hummed as tt 
does now. Before Jefferson was hired 
in 2001, she says, •nobody ever did 
anything. Zero, zip, zilp, blah, blah, 
blah." With only five staff members, 
Jefferson notes, "the office didn't re-
received training and landed well-
paying construction jobs through 
Jefferson's office. So why do so ~any 
minorities still feel that they can t get 
or keep jobs because of their race? 

iscrimination 
is 
everywhere," 
Jefferson say~, her f~ce framed 
by letters hanging 10 her wmdow that 
spell out "INTEGRITY." "It's in 
this building, it's on this floor-but 
you've got to have pro~ f." Thou~h 
her office receives mynad casual m-
quiries into what constitutes discrim-
ination, only about ten formal com-
plaints are filed each year. Jefferson 
constantly meets with people who 
fume about racist employers, and she 
often believes them. But if workers 
won't divulge their names, much less 
the details of their experiences, she 
can do nothing. 

"I only deal in facts," Jefferson 
explains. "When you discriminate 
against someone, you gotta be able .to 
prove it. You have to have facts, wnte 
down times, have witnesses-you 
gotta give me some ammunition." 

She has facts on the disgruntled 
workers who complained about dis-
crimination at the public hearing, and 
they aren't pretty. One black woman 
who claimed she was -laid off for no 
reason has a history of drug abuse, 
and Jefferson wouldn't be surprised 
if she'd begun using again. Another 
African-American man, also recently 
laid off was blacklisted by his union 
for ev;ding its educational require-
ments. Jefferson dug up payrolls to 
prove that another worker, who'd 
passionately argued tha~ black '"?en 
were being laid off a parncular proJeCt 
once the contractors had filled their 
quota, had been flat-out lying. She 



**Title:  Body of Work**
**Author: Aditi Ramakrishnan**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Come to think of it, I never knew her name, the pepper farmer's wife. She lived in Jindo, on that speck of an island, a piece of paradise on water. The locals say that if you throw a stone from one end of the island, it lands on the other. All her life, with her body, her hands, her fingers, her eyes, her mind, and her breath, she worked on a plot of that island, growing things... The lines go on to describe the favorite color of the pepper farmer's wife, her family, and her scent. Only briefly does the writer allude to her death, and to the smells of formaldehyde and alcohol. There is no mention of blood, blisters, and the bearing of bad tidings. And yet these are the words of Dr. Grace Suh, a resident physician at Yale-New Haven hospital.

Last November, Suh crafted this piece during a writing workshop led by the prominent physician-writer, Dr. Richard Selzer. Selzer's class, part of the "Yale Internal Medicine Residency's Writers Workshop," has brought together approximately 15 residents each November over the past four years to learn and practice the craft of writing under the mentorship of a physician-writer. Dr. Abraham Verghese, a graduate of the prestigious Iowa Writers' Workshop and author of My Own Country, led the first workshop in November 2003. Selzer, a former surgeon whose fourteenth book will come out next spring, led the past two workshops. The creative writing program began a few years ago as a way to address the extreme stress experienced by the hospital's residents and staff. According to Dr. Anna Reisman, co-director of the program, "The purpose of this workshop was a way to combat the negative feelings and experiences that many staff go through and witness in the hospital. They see a tendency to connect less with the patient and rely more on technology in order to be efficient." With that disconnect in mind, Verghese and Dr. Ralph Horowitz, a former dean of the Yale Medical School, created the writing workshop.


The residents who take part in the workshop have varied backgrounds in writing and literature. Some are novices, eager to learn how to narrate the stories that constantly play out in their minds. Others are experienced writers, ready to trade their scalpels for pens. But whatever their backgrounds, all share the belief that delving into words can be a refreshing hiatus from the toil of hospital rounds.

Before the workshop, the residents submit samples of their writing, which are usually related to medicine. Over the course of two days, the mentor leads the students in a critique of each others' pieces. Participants then write short, spontaneous assignments depicting a scene or a character. In the beginning, the residents may not know each other, but the experience of sharing their writing quickly forges close bonds between them. "When we start out, we're shy and don't want to hurt others' feelings. The critiques are very general," Suh says; "But on the second day we know each other's styles and become more comfortable. The discussions become more interesting." The program culminates in a student reading of revised essays and stories during the Medical Grand Rounds, an academic conference attended by University and community physicians. These pieces are then preserved in the annual workshop journal, Capsules.


The intersection of writing and medicine is not new. Anton Chekhov was a physician; William Carlos Williams wrote some of his poems on the backs of prescription bills. Dr. Lisa Sanders, a primary care physician and clinical instructor at the Yale Medical School, writes a column, "Diagnosis," for The New York Times Magazine. "Medicine is a storyteller's art," she says of the connection between health care and narrative. "You have to find the beginning, the middle, and the end and weave together a story of the patient. The clues you find will help you weave the narrative, the unifying diagnosis." Sanders uses this idea of narrative to teach diagnostic skills to residents. She tells them that if the diagnosis does not hang together as a narrative, perhaps it is wrong. In her view, physicians who write develop empathy and become attuned to details such as subtle facial movements. A doctor who is interested in stories will be more interested in her patients' lives, a more careful listener, and thus ask the patient more precise questions.


Writing can also influence a physician's ability in deeper, unexpected ways. Selzer, now 79 years old, still remembers sitting on the landing between the first and second floors of his childhood home, listening to the moans of patients from his father's first-floor doctor's office mingling with the scales of his mother, a professional singer, emanating from the second floor. Selzer's career mimicked the mixture of medicine and artistry found in his childhood: he followed in his father's footsteps and became a surgeon, and, at forty, honored his mother's artistic inclination by beginning to write. His dual careers as surgeon and author lasted 18 years. Pain was a common thread in his work. Wanting to focus, he finally chose the literary path. "By starting to write, I opened a third eye into my mind, in which I could perceive and feel," he says. "It interfered with my practice and surgery; a surgeon is supposed to concentrate on doing, not on the patient's feelings. I decided to stop practicing surgery. Once you're a writer, the third eye has been opened. It has no lid, and it can never be closed."


As the workshop caters to residents specializing in internal medicine, psychiatry, and pediatrics—fields in which empathy and penetrating vision are essential—the program's goal of opening a caring "third eye" in its participants seems appropriate. But is this goal feasible? Can an annual, two-day workshop influence the abilities of these residents as writers and physicians? Burdened with eighty-hour work weeks, residents often lack opportunities to polish pieces or keep regular journals. Their attempts to meet as an informal writing group have also failed. How can writing help these aspiring doctors if they cannot find the time to practice the craft?


Though the short duration of the workshop limits improvements in the quality of these students' writing, the emphasis on narratives and detail does seep into their daily medical practice. Dr. Laura Gravelin, who participated in last November's workshop, does not write regularly but still feels the residual effects of the course. "If you approach a day like it's a story, you look at things differently," she says. "You pay more attention to the details of your patients." Suh concurs; writing has allowed her to approach her practice more thoroughly. It has also provided her with solace. "It's hard to explain what eighty hours a week really means. It's a sacrifice, but writing has been an escape." And because of the writing workshops, that escape is now infinitely better-written. In the beginning, Suh just wanted to write therapeutically, reflectively. But over the course of two years, the workshops urged her to read what others have written, and to make her own writing more artistic—a literary piece rather than a diary entry. "A lot of physician writers are not very good," she confesses, laughing. "They're in the practice of medicine and good at communicating. But they don't focus on the writing as an art form."


For Suh, the writing workshops have driven her to care about words the way she cares about patients. But even with her passion for language, Suh struggles to find the time to write. To achieve the artistry she desires, she may have to devote herself less to medicine. Like Selzer, she may ultimately make a choice between medicine and writing. Perhaps a two-day workshop foreshadows the forked path ahead. But for now, as the list of ideas grows, Suh's story of the pepper farmer's wife comes to a quiet close: "...I suppose I did love her, if merely out of duty. The pepper farmer's wife, whose name I do not know, whose eyes are now mine. She left behind little else. She must have taken her scent with her.



**Typecast**
**Author: Mitchell Reich**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Nine sets of campus editors-including one from 
this magazine-showed up for the first meeting 
of the Yale Publications Council in early Feb-
ruary, and eight considered themselves journalists. This 
irked Betty Trachtenberg, the Dean of Student Affairs. 
When she and several residential college deans established 
the group, she said, "We wanted people to understand 
what was the concept of responsible journalism." Their 
mission proved difficult, as the avowed non-journalists 
were, in fact, the editors of The Yale Record, who consider 
themselves humor writers. Their mock "Blue Book," re-
leased last September, was one of a handful of publications 
that had motivated Trachtenberg to solve what she later 
called "the problems of these kinds of scurrilous articles 
16 
in various of our journals . ., She added, witheringly, "It's 
supposed to be passed off as humor, and people weren't 
buying it." 


Nearly every editor, however, including the Record's, 
left the room optimistic about the Council's possibilities 
and willing to attempt a second meeting. From their per-
spective, it had the potential to become a forum where 
editors could share tips, make the publishing process at 
Yale more open, and engage in dialogue with the rest of 
the campus community. For Trachtenberg and many of 
the cultural groups on campus, however, it was an effort 
to persuade Yale publications to change their habits: not 
only to stop printing the offending articles~but to actively 
acknowledge the minority presence at Yale. This change 
began long before the first meeting of the Publications 
Council. The student reactions against the inflammatory 
articles changed, however temporarily, the tone and poli-
cies of major publications at Yale, and sharply limited or 
refocused their discussions of race. The Council had little 
to do with the transformation, but its potential for rel-
evance is emerging: to determine whether these changes 
can become long-term parts of the Yale media landscape, 
for journalists and non-journalists alike. 


This landscape was rocked a year ago by the publica-
tion of two pieces. One was ''Me Love you Long Time: 
Yale's Case of Yellow Fever/' in the April issue of Rum-
pus. It appeared within several days of a cartoon in The 
Yale Herald depicting a student who suggests he would 
not vote for a candidate for YCC president because he 
was Asian. Students and administrators spotted the pair 
and were outraged. 


"Offensive speech is protected at Yale," President 
Richard Levin said. "That doesn't mean that if you say 
something that is deeply offensive to other people, you 
should be." Priya Prasad, president of the Asian Ameri-
can Students Association, alleged that the publications 
had advanced stereotypes substantially damaging to the 
perception of Asian students at Yale. Editors from both 
quickly apologized and underwent scathing criticism at 
two packed student forums. Students charged the Herald 
with a long history of perceived racial insensitivity; the 
Asian American Students Association sponsored a "Day 
~ 
of Silence," during which students gagged themselves 
to protest the publications' "racial insensitivity toward 
Asian Americans and other minority groups." 


Many students who were incensed by the articles 
grew frustrated that the protests, staged in the weeks be-
fore finals and summer break, inspired nothing but apolo-
gies and expressions of hope for a smoother fall term. April 
Joyner, an editor of Sphere, a publication about minority 
events and issues at Yale, supported the protests and went 
to both forums. "I don't think anything was really accom-
plished in the end;" she reflected. "Basically, the editors 
were attacked, and all they could do was apologize." 


In September, these fears were confirmed for many by 
the publication of the Record's Blue Book, which offend-
ed African-Americans, Latinos, Muslims, gays, and others 
with a smorgasbord of fake courses like "AFAM101: The 
Difference Between Black People and White People. Black 
Stand-Up Comics;" "ARBC125: Introductory Terrorist 
Arabic;" and "SPAN135b: Practical Applications of Spanish 
for WASPs." Some groups labeled the publication bigoted. 
Another forum was held, at which many questioned the ef-
ficacy of the previous spring's demonstrations. 


Students, however, had underestimated the success 
of their protests. Deviating from what the newspaper had 
long viewed as its editorial role, Rumpus turned off the 
spigot of aggressive racial humor. Whatever its content, 
past and present editors of Rumpus have argued that the 
self-proclaimed tabloid fills a legitimate journalistic niche 
on campus. Kyle Mathews, a current Editor-in-Chief, re-
fers to the need for "fidelity to the institution," whose aim, 
he says, is to portray real discourse 
and behavior in which students are 
engaged, from gossip about daily alco-
hol-induced mishaps to the occasional 
orgy. 


Discussing the controversy, 
Mathews says: "What's so frustrating 
about that particular perspective is 
that it's a reflection of what students 
are saying privately. They [the protes-
tors] were attacking a symptom of the 
problem and not the problem itself." 


Sam Heller, an Editor-in-Chief who 
published the offending piece, admit-
ted to the Herald in an interview that 
he had edited the article with the in-
tent of maximizing its shock value. 


In response to the spring contro-
versy, Heller apologized profusely and 
claimed that the editors made an error 
in printing the article in its published 
form. Mathews, though he told me 
that he would "weather the storm" and 
publish another controversial piece "if 
we thought there was some merit to 
the article," admitted that<< in choosing 
which articles to run we've really tried 
to avoid topics of race." Indeed, no ar-
ticle on race has been published under 
Mathews' tenure. Heller, by contrast, 
published a handful, including "Party 
Lines: Black Parties Differ from White 
Parties" and "Miscegenation Station: 
Interracial Dating at Yale." 


The Record, which attempted to 
remain defiantly unfazed by the pro-
tests, ma:de changes of its own. Then-
Editor-in-Chief David Litt published 
a jokey pseudo-apology in the next 
issue of the Record, mocking his crit-
ics. But in an interview, he conceded 
that he had grown more cautious. 


"There's definitely things in the Re-
cord we would have printed, and we 
don't now," he said. He stressed that 
"it's not the protest that made us do 
that, but people who sat down and 
talked to us and said, <this made me 
feel shitty and here's why."' 


Yale's two main newspapers re-
acted with their own policy changes. 
The Herald began to limit provoca-
tive mentions of race. As at Rumpus, 
this proved a significant challenge 
to the paper's longstanding editorial 
prerogative. In an extended medita-
tion on the responsibilities of journal-
ists printed in a January issue of the 
Herald, former Editor-in-Chief Sar-
ah Raymond quoted her predecessor, 
Tamara Micner, defending her deci-
sion to print the offending cartoon in 
much the same terms as Mathews. "I 
thought it was pointed, and I thought 
it was smart, and it definitely struck 
a chord. This was based on stuff I 
actually heard people saying, and it 
was mirroring that, as art often does." 


Micner's and Heller's comments 
point to their shared sentiment that 
racist material in publications is not 
the whole problem, but a symptom 
of a larger question of racism on cam-
pus. Yet her official remarks last April 
were contrite. "The comic has come 
across as offensive and racist to a siz-
able portion of the student body," 
she wrote in an Editor's Note, "and 
in such a case the Herald recognizes 
that to some extent authorial intent 
no longer matters." 


Moreover, Micner mentioned 
in a later interview that she received 
another comic last April from the 
same artist referring to the contro-
versy generated by his earlier piece. 
"I found that it spoke to the attitudes 
that people were showing," she admit-
ted, but, "in the immediate aftermath, 
we didn't think it was necessary." She 
chose not to print it. Why had she 
changed her mind? "I think the bar 
has risen for the quality of the content 
versus its provocativeness," she told 
me. A glance at her successor's article 
on the topic confirms how much the 
Herald was rattled by the protests. 


Raymond concludes the piece by pre-
scribing Yale an exceptionally strong 
medicine. She argues that Yale should 
adopt a "Blueprint" that all students 
agree to uphold, a sort of journalis-
tic honor code that pledges not to 
offend. "Perhaps," Raymond rumi-
nates, "we could use a little guidance 
toward ethical life." 


The Yale Daily News, though 
not a major instigator of the pro-
tests, has attempted reforms that are 
potentially the most far-reaching. 
The News identifies itself as a lead-
er of campus discourse, not merely 
a faithful scribbler of it. Yet it is 
hardly a secret that the publication 
has historically had a poor relation-
ship with cultural groups on campus. 
Crystal Paul-Laughinghouse, the 
editor of the African-American Cul-
tural House's newsletter, identifies 
the News' coverage of cultural events 
as rare and often inaccurate, and says 
that black students have often had 
unpleasant experiences working as 
reporters there. As at other major 
campus publications, few minorities 
have ever sat on the paper's editorial 
board. 


Dean Trachtenberg and theN ews 
said that in the past year, the current 
Editor-in-Chief, Sarah Mishkin, has 
made a substantial effort to rebuild 
the relationship between the paper 
and cultural groups at Yale. Mishkin 
confirmed that the recent protests 
had largely motivated several chang-
es: "It's definitely something that set 
the agenda to focus on that." For the 
first time, a reporter, Judy Wang, has 
been assigned to cover primarily reli-
gious and cultural events, recently re-
porting a series on race and attending 
a host of cultural events. The News is 
also in the early stages of organizing 
a forum, co-sponsored by the Coali-
tion for Campus Unity-an organiza-
tion formed in direct response to the 
Record controversy-where students 



**The Yale Publications Council**
**Author: Mitchell Reich**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
will offer opinions and air frustrations 
about the paper's coverage of campus 
groups. Dean Trachtenberg volun-
teered that "the editor of the Yale 
Daily News is very sincere in its wish 
to be more inclusive. And I think if 
you look at the YDN, it's different 
this year." 

Trachtenberg's publica-
tions council helped drive the change: 
both Wang's highly unusual series on 
race at Yale and the planned forum 
emerged shortly after the council's 
first meeting. 

These recent developments at the 
News are probably the group's only 
achievements so far. But they signal 
what role, if any, the council may play 
in building on the temporary, reac-
tionary changes of the Record, Rum-
pus, and Herald. Race may have been 
absent from Rumpus for the past year, 
but turnover on editorial boards will 
ensure that the controversy shadow-
ing the tabloid will soon be forgotten. 

The administrators behind the Coun-
cil's creation-primarily Berkeley's 
Dean Kevin Hicks and Trachtenberg, 
as well as a handful of other Residen-
tial College Deans-see the group as 
a long-term opportunity. Alexandra 
Suich, the editor-in-chief of the Yale 
Globalist, attended the meeting and 
described a conversation with Hicks 
immediately afterwards. "Dean Hicks 
sees it as a much more far-sighted or-
ganization," she said. "He wants the 
creation of a culture where the pub-
lications won't want to publish this 
material." 

This solution is more moder-
ate than many of the ideas that per-
colated at the time of the Council's 
creation. Alfred Guy, the director of 
the Yale Writing Center, witnessed 
its evolution. Within a few weeks of 
each other, two separate groups ap-
proached him and asked if he would 
do something about the state of un-
dergraduate journalism at Yale. The 
first group was blunt. Saveena Dhall, 
an Assistant Dean and Director of the 
Asian Cultural Center, came with two 
students to ask Guy if there was any-
thing he could do to prevent publica-
tions from printing articles considered 
May2007 
offensive by cultural groups at Yale. 
Guy politely declined. 

The second group was a little 
more reserved. 

Three Residential 
College Deans asked Guy, as well as 
Mark Oppenheimer, head of the Writ-
ing Center's Journalism Initiative, to 
participate in a new administrative 
proposal called the Yale Publications 
Council. Though yet unformed, the 
council they and Trachtenberg envi-
sioned would bring together editors 
from all major campus publications-
from the News to Rumpus-to regu-
larly meet and discuss common goals, 
guidelines, and challenges. The deans 
asked Guy and Oppenheimer to help 
set up events for the Council, and the 
five brainstormed ideas like bring-
ing professional journalists to Yale 
to meet with the editors. But as the 
Deans gradually expanded their vi-
sion for the council, Guy drew back 
and once again refused to participate. 

"They were talking about a journal-
istic code of ethics," he said. "I was 
worried that somehow it would seem 
that there would be a party line." 

Dhall's request reflected the at-
titudes of many cultural groups on 
campus at the time. In the wake of the 
Record forum, a group of students 
sent a packet of offensive articles 
printed in Yale publications to the na-
tional media. Though not part of that 
intiative, Josh Williams, co-founder 
of the Coalition for Campus Unity 
and a co-moderator at ~the forum, 
called its work "very professional" 
and is puzzled by the packet's failure 
to generate coverage. The Yale chap-
ter of the NAACP suggested that the 
administration trash an entire print 
run of a publication that was deemed 
offensive. 

However much these attitudes 
may have motivated the Council's cre-
ation, Trachtenberg, who claims to be 
adamantly against censorship, stressed 
that the group is an entirely voluntary, 
editor-run group. This characteristic 
suggests its potential and the recipe 
for its undoing. Editors who believe in 
transforming the temporary racial gag 
rule in Yale's major publications into a 
lasting consciousness, one that stimu-
lates campus dialogue about divisive 
issues instead of occasionally shock-
ing the campus, may find the Council a 
receptive setting. Editors have spoken 
of beginning monthly dialogues with 
cultural groups and offended students 
and moving beyond periodic ritual of 
frustrated campus-wide protests and 
apologies. TheCouncilcouldadd trans-
parency to the editorial process, and, 
as Raymond suggested, set up guide-
lines of ethical conduct for reporters, 
editors, and writers. 

But the Council's members, as 
the Record made clear, are not all 
journalists, and the various responses 
to the most recent crises suggest how 
difficult it may be to forge any agree-
ment or informal co-regulation be-
tween editors. As the Rumpus' Kyle 
Mathews said, it would be useless to 
try to set standards of journalism for 
the Council, because the only stan-
dards he would consent to would 
be laughably inadequate for the 
YDN. And editors are wary, what-
ever Trachtenberg's assurances to 
the contrary, that the Council could 
begin to exercise a chilling effect on 
worthwhile yet controversial printed 
material. It is perhaps for these rea-
sons-coupled with Trachtenberg's 
imminent departure and the impossi-
bility of finding a common free hour 
for a dozen people at Yale--that the 
likelihood of a second Publications 
Council meeting is slim. 

There is another matter. 
"To 
take on serious issues," Guy told 
me simply, "you might have to of-
fend people." Journalism at Yale, in 
his view, isn't actually broken. "I 
wouldn't vote for any particular of-
fense," he said; "But," he added, "I 
would rather work in a place where 
the student publications occasionally 
fuck up." 

1NJ 
Mitchell Reich, a sophomore in Pier-
son College, is an Associate Editor of 
TNJ. 


**Last Taps of the Typewriter**
**Author: Michael Birnbaum**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

Manson H. Whitlock peers into the typewriter on the table, a big, avo-
cado-green IBM Selectric from the sixties. Something is jammed and 
pieces are scattered around the machine. Eventually, Whitlock finds 
what he's looking for-a screw has fallen in, causing the type mechanism to 
stick. Out goes the screw. Using a spring-hook, an implement that would be 
more at home in a dentist's office than a Dell factory, he reassembles the type-
writer-plastic cover plates, the metal paper tray that directs paper onto the 
main roller, and the cylindrical rubber plate itself. Then he taps some keys, ex-
amining how each letter moves. "Good enough. For government standards 
anyhow." He draws a smiley-face on the repair order, gazes through the window 
at the late-autumn leaves blowing outside, and calls the client on his old black 
rotary phone. 

Whitlock is 89, and, though he looks younger, his tweed jacket, silk tie, and 
sweater betray him as a man from a different era. The only thing missing is a 
pipe, though an orange typewriter-shaped ashtray sits empty on the shelf; four 
or five years ago he quit smoking, worried that he would die young. His face 
is lined and friendly, crowned by thinning, combed-back hair that recalls Lyn-
donJohnson's without the grease. The ring and pinkie fingers of his right hand 
are twisted with arthritis, but that doesn't keep him from his job. Though he's 
slightly stooped and often uses a cane, he still moves a heavy typewriter with 
ease. Whitlock has probably been repairing typewriters longer than anyone 
else in the Northeast, maybe even the United States. When he started in 1930, 
Charles Lindbergh's trans-Atlantic flight was a fresh memory, Herbert Hoover 
was president, and construction of the Empire State Building had just begun. 

These days his shop is jammed with tools, books, machines, and memo-
ries that have accumulated over the last 76 years. After his 1990 "retirement," 
when he moved from the larger storefront to a tiny outpost upstairs, Whit-
lock filled a dumpster with typewriters and flotsam. What remains are the 
survivors. Shelves line the sides of the shop, laden with enough ribbons to 
supply David lve's monkeys on their near-eternal quest to recreate the com-
plete works of Shakespeare. A bust of Mark Twain (the first author to turn 
in a typed manuscript) sits on a bookcase, an old prize for having been the 
highest-grossing Smith-Corona dealer in the Northeast. On another shelf are 
repair catalogues, A Treasury of jewish Humor, the 1978 New Haven tele-
phone directory, and Jean Anthelme Brillat-Savarin's The Physiology of Taste. 
There are boxes full of platens, type-balls, type-slugs, and type-bars. 

And of course there are the typewriters themselves, which sit in various 
states of disrepair. Some gleam as they might have in 1920. Others, victims of 
cannibalization, have been dissected to feed the cravings of clients' machines. 
THE NEw JouRNAL 

Typewriter repair is a delicate 
business. 

Their covers are open, exposing mouth-
fuls of thin metal teeth. There is an old 
black Underwood, the kind you'd see in 
a Howard Hawks movie. A German, sky-
blue Olympia built like a tank. Seven 
strains of electric Smith-Corona, four 
breeds of IBM Selectric, and one exotic 
old Oliver No.5, with its clustered type-
bars poking up like mouse ears on either 
side of the platen roller. 

Whitlock says that he has repaired 
around three hundred thousand type-
writers in his career. The avocado IBM 
was job number 300,001. "If you put the 
typewriters I've repaired end to end it 
would take days to drive past them," he 
boasts. Indeed, if each of those typewrit-
ers were fourteen inches long, together 
they would form a line of 795 miles, or 
just about the distance between Chicago 
and New York. Drive your car however 
fast you want. 

The fastest Whitlock has ever driven 
was 110 miles an hour in a brand-new 
1946 Packard with overdrive, a gift from 
his father-in-law. At that rate, he would 
have driven past his line of typewriters 
in seven hours and fourteen minutes. He 
says his sons don't like typewriters "be-
cause you can't go 'vroom vroom' with 
them," and sometimes he feels the same 
way. A small chrome clock salvaged from 
the dashboard of a 1953 Jaguar XK120 
sits on his work table; it loses about a 
minute a week but is otherwise reliable. 
The Jaguar lives on in Whitlock's memory 
and in a painting in his living room; he 
sold the car itself to pay his wife's medi-
cal bills. 

21 



**Title: The Last Typewriter Repairman**
**Author: Michael Barnbaum**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
• • 
Even Jaguars might be a little too 
modern for Whitlock. "Airplanes, 
automobiles, television... comput-
ers ... they've changed the ·world too 
quickly. It was nice 75 years ago!" 
Seventy-five years ago, Thomas Edi-
son filed his last patent. A half-cen-
tury before~ in 1872, the legendary 
inventor had filed one of his first pat-
ents for a "Type-Writing Machine." 
He was leaping into a competitive 
field; a single standard had not yet 
·emerged. But Edison's design soon 
lost to the Sholes typewriter, the first 
with the QWERTY keyboard. The 
Sholes didn't jam as much as other 
machines, because it was scientifi-
cally engineered to slow our typing, 
by forcing our fingers to hop around 
as much as possible. It has been ham-
penng us ever s1nce. 

Whitlock has outlived most of 
his contemporaries both the type-
writers and the people. His wife, 
Nancy, died a decade ago. Brothers 
Gilbert and Everett both died within 
the last three years, leaving ninety-
three-year-old Reverdy as the only 
one of Whitlock's five brothers still 
alive. Reverdy and Manson used to 
work together at their father's shop, 
though the C.E.H. Whitlock store 
was a New Haven institution long 
before either was born. 

Clifford Everett Hale Whitlock 
started his business out of a bike ga-
rage next door to the Skull and Bones 
tomb. At age 15, he ambitiously 
billed himself "bookseller to Yale." A 
promotional pamphlet from this era 
shows the newly-moved shop, dark 
22 
as 
out .zve 
ost 
rzters 
an 
e 
eo 
and wood -paneled, every inch the 
ancient general store. It aimed to an-
ticipate all needs 
an advertisement 
reads, "YALE MEN, YOUR TELE-
GRAMS WILL BE RECEIVED 
TILL 8 P.M. AT WHITLOCK'S 
BOOK SHOP." By the time Man-
son Whitlock started working at his 
father's store, it had moved again, 
this time for good, to New Haven's 
main commercial block on Broad-
way Avenue. 

The store always had a big type-
writer section. His father would 
put displays of the mouse-eared 
0 livers in the windows, and some~ 
umes 
a 
company representative 
would come and awe onlookers by 
drawing pictures with the No.5. He 
taught young Whitlock how to draw 
a line of soldiers across the page us-
ing an '0' for the head, a slash for 
the body, hyphens for arms, and a 
caret for legs. "It was pleasing for 
little minds," Whitlock reminisces. 

He was interested in mechanics, so 
when the time came to work in the 
shop, he gravitated toward typewrit-
ers. Having never actually received 
any formal training through classes 
or books, Whitlock learned how to 
complete repairs by "osmosis." 

Reverdy Whitlock took over the 
family bookstore in the forties~ He 
and Manson didn't get along very 
well, and the split, when it came, 
was acrimonious. Reverdy recounts 
coming to the store one Sunday to 
find his brother loading typewriters 
into an old, wood -paneled station 
wagon and moving them to a store-
front around the corner. Neither 
brother likes to talk about that pe-
riod. Manson Whitlock just smiles 
ruefully and says that he has a much 
better relationship with his brother 
now than he did then. The move 
let the typewriter shop expand; at 
its height, Whitlock employed six 
mechanics and stocked four to five 
hundred machines. Success enabled 
him to pick and choose the jobs he 
worked on himself uninterested 
in electric typewriters, he delegated 
them to others and kept the older 
manuals for himself. 

A 1910 Oliver is the oldest ma-
chine that Whitlock keeps in his shop 
today. Although distinguished by its 
years, it is fairly conventional when 
compared to other early typewriter 
designs. There was the Hammonia, 
Germany's first writing machine, 
which looked more like a bread-slic-
er than a typewriter. The Gardner, 
which had fourteen keys that were 
pressed in different "chords" for 
each letter. The Blickensderfer No. 5,


--- Page 23 ---

which had keys that stuck out in all 
directions, making it look, in Whit-
lock's words, "sort of like a centi-
pede." And, best of all, the Williams 
had a "grasshopper" type-action in 
which the type-bar leaped up, over, 
and back down onto the platen from 
above as though each depressed key 
propelled an insect into the air. 

Whitlock sold his last six Wil-
liams typewriters when he closed the 
big shop downstairs. Nowadays, de-
spite his objections, he works mostly 
on electric typewriters, which run by 
motor, and electronic typewriters, 
which have computer chips-that's 
all people bring. Today most of the 
half-eaten machines in his shop are 
electrics; the marvels serve only as 
decoration and company. 

One afternoon Whitlock lets me 
take apart an electric Smith-Corona. 
Electric typewriters have motors that 
connect to a spinning, ridged shaft. 
A key, when pressed, catches onto a 
ridge of the shaft, whose spin kicks 
the type-bars forward against the 
page. Whitlock tells me to remove 
the type-bars. They're sort of like 
spring-loaded frog legs, with a slight 
bend halfway down. I try to take one 
out. "Never force anything," Whit-
lock says. Right. I try harder. "You're 
forcing!" He takes it in his fingers 
and, with a flick of his wrist, discon-
nects the bar from its linkage to the 
key. I take the next type-bar and flick 
my wrist. Nothing happens. He takes 
it and, despite his arthritis, humili-
ates me again. I end up having to use 
two bands to remove the bars one by 
one. Whitlock tells me to look at the 
escapement, the jumble of gears that 
moves the carriage from one letter to 
the next. He tells me how it works; 
I am completely lost. He smiles and 
tries to phrase it differently. I poke 
at the escapement with my screw-
driver. He prods it too, didactically, 
and presses the spacebar a few times. 
Finally I understand. It resists the 
carriage's tension; it doesn't actually 
cause movement. A few days after I 
destroyed his typewriter, Whitlock 
tells me that if I had come to his shop 
twenty years ago, he would have giv-
en me a job. 

After my repair lesson, I want a 
typewriter of my own. The next day 
I tell him that I have been looking 
for one on eBay. He has never used 
or even seen the Internet, but bas 
heard of the site and is intrigued. So, 
disregarding the first thing he ever 
told me--"You work a typewriter, 
a computer works you"-1 bring in 
my shiny, silver laptop, and we sit 
down to scope out the market. 'Til 
be darned," he says, when 1,782 items 
pop up. We click the first on the list. 
"The Oliver N°· S's used to have metal 
covers. We'd put them in the chicken 
coop." We return to the list-"1'11 
be darned," he says again, "Let's see 
that Remington. Remington Rand 
N<>- 5 Clumsy, not as nice a feel as 
Royals. " I ask him if he can sec the 
computer well enough. "It's got such 
a clear screen! I had thought it would 
be blurry like a TV!" He smiles and 
looks at the $10.49 Corona N" 3 I've 
clicked. "Goodness gracious. Unbe-


**Title: New Haven's Nightlife**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
• -
fun perk. "Very, very seldom do I see more than maybe ten
regulars," says Mark, "And that's scary."
The fecund club hub of New York throbs only ninety miles away, the promised land these New Haven DJs
someday hope to reach. There, DJ culture persists
tanta-
lizingly close yet still far out of reach for New Haven DJs.
nen· darkness falls on Thursday, Friday, or Saturday
night, Crown Street comes alive. Dim street lamps,
clusters of cigarette embers, and the glow of cell phones
. light the strip while the click-clack of high heels and the .
call-response banter of party posses reverberates through
the night. As midnight fades to morning, the crowd is · ·
rowdy and the police are vigilant. Sweaty bodies spill into
the streets, slipping from one drink special to the next.
On Thursday night, the kings of New Haven night-
life preside over the city's dance floors. Nobody cares. A
drunk girl gyrates with overt sexuality, balancing a vodka
cranberry in one hand as she sways the other above her
head, cocked in a come-hither manner. Her lips don't miss
a word to a song she has heard a thousand times.
Despite the generous array of clubs on Crown, every-
one knows which two spots are always packed, the kind of
crowded that causes ladies to link arms and guys to sling a
These day> spinning records are little more than background music.
finger through their girlfriends' belt loops. In a city
fueled by nightclub glitz, Bar and Alchemy will never
close.
The latter, a sprawling, three-level oasis of alco-
hol, loud music, and strategic lighting cues, boasts
the biggest dance floor in Connecticut. It is as close
as New Haven gets to a standard New York party
club which is to say, not close enough.
High above the sweaty crowd is DJ Robert
LaFrance, Joe's colleague. Illuminated by a single strand


of Christmas lights and the greenish glow of his equipment,
he looks like a mad scientist. His hands move quickly, skill-
fully, arranging an endless layered mix of pop hits. When
he spins around to flip a light switch, a siren goes off and the
crowd goes crazy. "My thing is really House music. [This]
is kind of cheesy," he says of the Billboard hip-hop play list
he is asked to play in the main room. "But I'm okay with
that." DJ Rob is not here to educate, but to entertain.
On the upper level of Alchemy is Lounge 215, a 21+
area posing as a V.I.P. room. It has its own bar and boasts a
buffet of silver banquet dishes offering rubbery munchies.
DJ Joe is there playing House music.
To the pop-listener, the sound is distorted and exotic.
A descendant of disco, House music is electric, tripped-
out, and airy, with a four-by-four pulse and driving
bassline designed to keep the body in motion. Accord-
ing to DJ Rob, House music generates "a feeling that you
can't really describe."
If Alchemy aspires to resemble a crowded Paris disco-
theque, then Bar recalls a jammed Dublin pub. Surrounded
by mahogany, exposed brick accents, beer garden-style seat-
ing, and an antique pool table, people relax and drink beer.
Originally opened as a nightclub in 1991, Bar successfully
added pizza ovens and a rnicrobrewery in the rnid-'90s. On
this particular Thursday there is hardly enough elbow room
to bring cup to mouth.
Depending on your vibe, you may avoid or gravi-
tate towards Bar's back room, where DJ Mark supervises
a smattering of people on the dance floor below. Of the
quarter of the club-goers lounging in the back room, may-
be a twentieth are dancing. Compared to the main room
at Alchemy, this is tame.
After the hip-hop DJ winds down at the end of Thurs-
day night, Mark begins a House set. The scant dance floor
quickly clears. "(Last] night I was called a fucking asshole
ten times in the booth," he says, not altogether unhap-
PY· Even if he is insulted, these are the moments when
Mark stood out and was noticed for what he loves:
playing House. He and Joe are throwbacks to when be-
ing a DJ mattered.
I
n 1964, nightclubs were about the music. "Going
out" implied dances, sipped cocktails, and artful
seduction. At discotheques, clubgoers went over the
rainbow on LSD and danced the monkey, the frug,
and Watusi until the harsh sun rose over Battery Park.
In May 1965, "discotheque" appeared in "Among the
New Words," an article in the linguistic journal Ameri-
can Speech. Five years later, the dazzling, decadent
heyday of disco began. In New York, the conductor of
this movement was not a club proprietor, musical artist,
or celebrity. He was a DJ: Francis Grasso, presented by
the city with blow jobs and blow.
Even ninety miles away in New Haven, the scene
was "pretty intense," recalls Chris Arnott, Arts Edi-
tor for the New Haven Advocate. "There were disco-
theques that were a really big deal... the city had a claim
to some real stuff."
But Joe and Mark grew up on a new sound that
had its roots in 1980s Chicago. There, at a club called
The Warehouse, House music was corning into its own.
The vibrations hit the Big Apple overnight. As young
men, Joe and Mark frolicked at notorious NYC hot-
spots like Paradise Garage and the original Sound Fac-
tory. Mark began DJing in 1977, moonlighting at places
like NYC's Fillmore. It was a time when the influence
of DJs rivaled that of the radio. "We were at a table at
Limelight," Mark reminisces, "and this is when Ma-
donna had just released 'Everybody.' She was at the
table with us for about three hours. We had a lot of fun
with her." Back in the 1980s, DJs like Mark and Joe
could make Madonna famous.
W
hen House made its Connecticut debut in the
early '90s, Joe was attracting wild crowds at
Aetna Diner in Hartford. On June 7, 1995, The Hart-
ford Courant credited him with introducing House

As midnight fades to morn-
ing, the crowd is rowdy
and the police are vigilant.
Sweaty bodies spill into the
streets, slipping from one
drink special to the next.



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Romy Drucker**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
and techno to Connecticut. With his 
fresh Chicago sound and an intuitive 
sense of how to move the crowd, Joe 
started Riot at the Municipal, a party 
so popular that it was featured on 
the cover of the Hartford Advocate 
in 1989. The headline read "Bring-
ing Down the House: The Mu-
nicipal Restaurant is home to Riot, 
Hartfo"rd's new, cutting-edge 'acid 
house' night club." Riot soon found 
its own venue. As co-owner and DJ, 
Joe was a local sensation, getting the 
crowd off three nights a week and 
even bringing the after-hours scene 
back to the floor he rented in his co-
owner's place. He was at the van-
guard of a dance craze reminiscent of 
the legendary disco era. "I suspect 
that the big difference between the 
'90s and now is that there was more 
spectacle then," says Arnott. "There 
were warehouses being rented out 
for big spectacular dance parties." 


People did Ecstasy and danced un-
til dawn. These were the later glory 
days of dance music . 


Soon, Joe began to ·get noticed 
outside of Connecticut. He opened Riot 
New York and Riot Atlanta, and even 
traveled overseas in 2003 and 2004 to 
do a series of club tours. "In Spain," he 
says, "people would come up and ask 
me for my autograph." Europeans still 
idolize even the unknown D J. 


But ~ack in the States, many DJs 
lead double lives, find tninor success, 
and then lose it. Three years after in-
ternational recognition, Joe is back at 
Alchemy, tnaking a living. DJ Rob has 
a day job, a wife, and three kids. "My 
passion is not to sell telecommunica-
tions services to large corporations," he 
saysofhisworkatAT&TinFarmington, 
Connecticut. If the DJs go unnoticed 
by night, then by day they are unde-
tectable. 


Joe hopes to achieve notoriety by 
teaming up with Rob in a production 
teamtheycall "Rejexx." The two work 
out of a spare bedroom in Rob's house 
and attempt to do what the big boys 
do make music. These days, fame 
as a DJ depends on music produc-
28 
THE NEw JouRNAL 


. 
Clubgoers at Alchemy dance to the well-known beats of Billboard hits. 
tion, which gets you noticed by the 
industry and courted by musicians 
and clubs. Joe's five minutes of fame 
was next to nothing compared to 
today's number one DJ, Tiesto, a true 
artist who sells millions of records and 
playstosold-outstadiums. Rejexxhas 
posted several tracks it produced on 
itswebsite. Thenewest, "Do You Want 
Me?" is described as "featuring syn-
copated percussion, chopped up fe-
male vocals, and an old-school house 
bass line." Rob and Joe gave out some 
demo CDs at a music conference last 
year and plan to distribute more in 
the upcoming months. Most of all, 
Joe wants to see the tracks on vinyl. A 
CD just goes in a pile, but vinyl says it 
like the song with some soul. 


Joe has aspirations of starting his 
own label. Though sometin1es with-
drawn, he has always made good busi-
ness decisions and has two gold re-
cords to show for it. But fame is fickle, 
and today, Joe is back spinning inN ew 
Haven and Hartford. Like any Ameri-
can dreamer, he wants more. 


"Where I want~ to be, is to do 
music full-time," says Mark. "I re-
ally want to be a DJ worldwide, and 
I know I can do it. DJing, retoix-
ing, producing. Time is so limited." 


May 2007 
He says this somewhat mournfully. 
He is sitting at a table at Bar eating 
pizza topped with mashed potatoes 
and bacon and drinking Coca-Cola. 
Though he's faced with a half-empty 
garage and a half-eaten pizza, this 
middle-aged man with his middle-
aged dream is someone you want to 
believe in. 


''Salt and pepper hair and grease 
in his fingen1ails," says Ron LeDuc, a 
friend of Mark who works the door at 
Bar, '~[but he] fucking gets in there and 
Jentz 
Authorof 
.· .. 
STRANG~ 
fucks it up." LeDuc designs Mark's 
business cards, website, and CDs, all 
of which feature a cartoon logo of a 
sexpot female mechanic. He is quick 
to talk Mark up, but not without 
good reason. In the DJ room, Mecha-
nix mixes sweet beats. 


~~He"s fucking phenomenal,"'"' 
LeDuc continues, getting noticeably 
excited. "He's so smooth; -I've seen 
him spin 2 CDs and a fucking turn-
table at the same time. Are you kid-
ding me? That's fucking nuts.'' 


t's true that Joe came closer to 
fame, but when it comes down to 
it, he and Mark are two DJs, work-
ing one block away from each other 
and fighting for the same prize. In a 
city satisfied by a soundtrack to beer, 
Joe and Mark are underappreciated 
and anonymous to most. But they 
will keep their day jobs and keep on _ 
spinning. Because when you have a 
dream and nothing to lose, you go 
for it. You hand out your business 
card. Give away CDs. Put contacts 
_on the guest list. You call back. You 
play on. Anything to get noticed. 


Romy Drucker, a senior in Daven-
port College, is the former Publisher 
ofTNJ. 
·-
·:;. 
·. 
... MonHay, Apri123rd, 4 PM 
--: 
College Master's House 
Street 
29 
f 
••
l 


**Title: Getting Tenure Back on Track**
**Author: Sophia Lear**
**Page number(s): 30**

. ' 
r-·--
Getting Tenure Back on Track 
Changes improve the junior faculty experience. 
by Sophia Lear 
a history conference in 2004, an eminent Yale histo-
an introduced himself to David Bell, the Andrew W. 
ell on Professor in the Humanities atJ ohns Hopkins 
University. "Oh, how nice to meet you!" the Yale professor 
said warmly. "What work are you doing?" Bell-once a ju-
nior faculty member in Yale's history department--eyed his 
fellow historian before politely answering the question. But, 
as he recalls now, "I had to hold myself back from saying, 'I 
had an office across the hall from you for years! You really 
should know who I am.'" To merit his former colleague's at-
tention, Bell had to leave Yale and get tenure elsewhere. 


On February 5th, 2007, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences 
Tenure and Appointments Policy Committee released its re-
port on tenure at Yale. Acknowledging the plight of Bell and 
legions like him, the report offered specific changes to the 
tenure system and an admission Yale professors have long 
been waiting to hear: systemic difficulties in tenuring junior 
faculty members is hurting the Yale community and hinder-
ing the University in the cutthroat world of academia. "It's 
unusual," says Professor Jon Butler, Dean of the Graduate 
School and co-chair of the committee. "Most reports on ten-
ure and appointments don't discuss the experience of junior 
faculty." 


Beginning in September 2005, the nine-person commit-
tee met 31 times over 15 months. Provost Andrew Hamilton, 
who appointed a committee of four divisional directors and 
three professors, co-chaired by Dean of Yale College Peter 
Salovey and Dean Butler, initially expected the group to fin-
ish its report by spring 2006. But the committee quickly re-
alized its work would take significantly longer. The problem 
was not divisiveness; a united belief in the need for reform 
charged the group from the start, and all of its members 
easily agreed on the targets for change. Rather, the delay 
30 
was prompted by the committee's determination to find 
a concrete solution to an arcane system, one that could 
provoke a change in Yale's overall academic culture. The 
report aims to be not only a technical tweaking, but a 
holistic evaluation. "The problem we're addressing is not 
. one of the number of people tenured or the rate of tenure,,. 
Dean Salovey clarified. "The problem addressed is how to 
achieve rational and appropriate teaching and citizenship 
at Yale." 


Until now, Yale's tenure policy has differed radically 
from those at almost all other universities. At a tenure-
track university, junior hires are guaranteed that a tenured 
position will be available should they eventually qualify 
for it; their cases are reviewed internally, and a lot of them 
make the cut. But Yale promises nothing: junior hires are 
not necessarily reviewed for tenure; instead, they're often 
told that no openings exist in their department. If a junior 
faculty member is brought up for review, he or she must 
compete without preferential treatment against every 
other scholar in the field, with the position offered to the 
most qualified candidate. 


The University has justified its unique system by ar-
guing that Yale is a unique place. To receive'tenure at Yale, 
candidates must, as the report insists, • stand in competi-
tion with the foremost leaders in their field throughout 
the world.,. Salovey claims that the report will not lower 
these standards. "It is difficult to get tenure at Yale, and it 
will still be difficult to get tenure at Yale, and we're happy 
about that." 


Yale's tough-love policy has long. distinguished it 
among elite institutions. But in the increasingly competi-
tive world of academia, the Yale system has become more 
and more of a liability. The committee aims to streamline 



**Title: Yale's New Tenure System**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
what is currently regarded as a cumbersome and illogical system that is not only out of sync with the rest of 
academia, but also hampers Yale in its quest to attract and retain the best faculty. The report compares the 
existing structure with the Swiss Franc, "a unique currency with increasingly high transaction costs," 
and proposes a multifaceted solution. The new policy will give each junior faculty hire a guaranteed 
shot at tenure in a shorter amount of time, preference over outside candidates in the tenure com-
petition, and two years of paid leave. 


A
former Yale associate faculty member felt like she had been let back in the pearly 
gates when she was offered a junior position in the University's political science 
department. "I had been an undergraduate at Yale, and I felt like graduation was 
expulsion from Paradise," she remembers. "So getting a job there was beyond 
my wildest dreams." A junior position can spark the hope that Yale will 
ask you to stay for good, but those familiar with Yale's tenure system 
will advise new hires not to get too attached. From those who left 
after a few years to several current department chairs, the same 
sentence surfaces again and again: I never expected to get ten-
ure here. 

The faculty member loved the excitement that filled 
the political science department when she arrived. "I 
thought, this is an extraordinary intellectual en-
vironment, and a place where my scholarship 
would really improve." But she kept her 
hopes in check. "In general, I thought 
I wouldn't get tenure, but it would 
be a wonderful place to be in the 
meantime. It was dangerous 
to have anything else than 
that for your attitude." 

Four years later she 
accepted a job 
at Princeton. 
She loved 
her 

The Tenure and Appointments Policy CommitteeJs report included figures outlining its recommendations. 
position at Yale, but Princeton's sys-
tem guaranteed tenure review, and 
seemed to be governed by a rational-
ity absent from Yale's. She was con-
tent with her junior faculty position 
at Yale because she arrived fully pre-
pared to leave. But for a number of 
the most promising young post-docs, 
the question remains: Why bother 
with Yale at all? 

One major issue addressed in 
the report is Yale's former system of 
Junior Faculty Equivalencies. In the 
unreformed system which will per-
manently disappear on July 1 JFEs 
served as financial allotments for 
faculty members. Departments had 
set numbers of JFEs; a junior hire 
took one JFE, and a senior hire took 
two. For a junior faculty member to 
achieve tenure, an extra JFE had to 
be available within his or her depart-
ment, which occurred only when a 
faculty metnber had recently vacated 
a position or if the department chair 
successfully petitioned for another. 
Under such a system, even the most 
qualified junior faculty member could 
be refused tenure if no additional JFE 
was available. When Salovey was a 
junior professor, the then-chairmen· 
of the Psychology department told 
him, "Peter, even if Psychology gave 
a Nobel prize, and you won it, we 
still can't guarantee there will be a 
spot for you." Many faculty mem-
bers see JFEs as a useful pretext for 
their department to deny someone 
tenure without reviewing his or 
her work. 

Even if a JFE became available, 
the hurdles had ju.st begun for the 
qualified junior faculty member. The 
next major obstacle was the open 
search. When a position became 
available in a particular department, 
Yale sent letters to top professors in 
that field asking them to list the best 
scholars in the discipline. If the fac-
ulty member's name didn't · surface 
on these lists, the process stopped 
right there. Until now, there was no 
such thing as an ~cinternal candidate" 
at Yale. The system put no value on 
place; to be reviewed for tenure was 
to apply for a fresh job open to the 
best candidates in the field. 

Though the open search policy 
sounds ruthlessly fair, there was suspi-
cion among junior faculty that it was 
sometimes manipulated to produce 
certain desired results. The letter of 
the law is so high that it can be used 
as a shield from blame; hypothetically, 
if a department liked an inside candi-
date, the chair could send the letters 
to a select sample of scholars likely to 
include the candidate's name on their 
lists. In the opposite scenario, all a 
department had to do was stick to the 
written rules, and there was a pretty 
good chance the candidate wouldn't 
make it through. 

It's hard to distinguish rumor 
from truth, but the rampant specula-
tion and nebulous anxiety the open 
search policy inspired among junior 
faculty was detrimental enough. "I 
remember worrying more about the 
oddness of Yale's procedures than my 
own work," said Salovey. "Are people 
going to realize with this list of names 
that the question is really ~should we 
tenure Peter or not?' I was more wor-
ried about these issues than my schol-
arship or teaching, because I felt those 
things were under my control." 

As elite departments develop at 
universities across the country, young 
scholars no longer feel compelled 
to risk Yale"s tenure-policy to achieve 
prestige. "The first complaint is that 
they don't do that at Princeton, they 
don't do that at Michigan, Berkeley, 
Chicago, and on and on," observes 
Butler. "Brand new faculty don't want 
to go through that. It's so far from the 
center, from standard practice. Among 
other things it probably restricts the 
numbers of people who want to come 
to Yale." 

Academia is notoriously gossipy, 
and the committee is confident that 
news of Yale's tenure changes will 
travel fast. By abolishing JFEs and 
promising each junior faculty hire 
the resources for a potential senior 
position, the new report places more 
significance on the initial hiring than 
ever before. "The old system created 
a little bit of cynicism," remarked 
Salovey. With an open search policy, 
"there's the sense that if some appoint-
ment doesn't work out, the system is 
self-correcting." 

While the changes make Yale's 
system less idiosyncratic and more at-
tractive to potential hires, the results 
cannot be entirely predicted. When 
the diennial review mandated by 
the report is published, it will reveal 
whether the number of junior facul-
ty promoted to tenured positions at 
Yale increases. At least as important 
as numbers, however, is convincing 
the nation's PhDs of Yale's change of 
heart. "We think this will attract re-
ally exciting, excellent new non-ten-
ured faculty and propel them into the 
kind of the career they want," said 
Butler. "And if they are successful, 
we hope that they'll stay at Yale." 

David Bell had been a junior fac-
ulty member in the Yale history 
department for four years when Johns 
Hopkins offered him a job. The po-
sition was untenur ed, but Yale's sys-
tem made it hard to justify staying in 
New Haven. Bell was torn, and he 
went to his department chair's office 
to tell him about the offer. "We'd 
like to keep you," the chair respond-
ed. "What can we offer you?" Bell 
knew he was far too young to come 
up for tenure at Yale, but he asked his 
chair if the department could create 
another JFE in his field to indicate 
at least a modicum of commitment. 
The chairman looked into it but to no


**Title: Yale's Tenure Troubles**
**Author: Sophia Lear**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
avail. Instead, he offered to shorten 
Bell's tenure clock, so that he would 
come up for tenure a year earlier. Bell 
was unconvinced. "Without a JFE in 
place," he notes now, "it was like an 
offer to accelerate your trip to the fir-
ing squad." Shortly after his meeting 
with the chair, Bell accepted the Johns 
Hopkins position, where, he said, "I 
went in with the expectation of get-
ting tenure." Only four years later, he 
got it. 

Before the report, Yale had little 
to offer junior faculty courted by oth-
er institutions. This rendered it vul-
nerable to other universities eager to 
capitalize on Yale's tough standards. 
In a rapidly growing department like 
political science, inter-school com-
petition for junior faculty is fierce. 
"What places tend to do is try and go 
after people before they can make it 
by the Yale criteria," says Professor 
Ian Shapiro, who chaired the politi-
cal science department for five and a 
half years. "Pick them off earlier and 
earlier and earlier." 

But, as Bell's case exemplifies, 
the clinching reason to leave Yale is 
not that it's difficult to get tenure. 
Though many junior faculty leave 
for schools with significantly higher 
tenure rates, many others chose alter-
natives like Princeton, whose tenure 
rates are comparable to Yale's. Peo-
ple leave because they are not guar-
anteed even the possibility of vying 
for tenure. Everyone wants to know 
they will get their fair shot, and, until 
now, Yale has refused to provide this 
comfort. 

The changes remove a huge 
source of anxiety for junior faculty 
and allow the University to more 
competitively recruit and retain fac-
ulty, but it's hard to envision how 
the promise of tenure resources for 
everyone meshes with departments 
that depend on a large horde of junior 
faculty to staff small classes. 

The English department prides it-
self on its impressive number of intro-
ductory seminars especially designed 
for freshmen and sophomores. "Offer-
ing extensive introductory seminars 
taught by ladder faculty is a real pri-
ority for us," says Professor Langdon 
Hammer, chair of the English depart-
ment. "I assume that we will do what-
ever we need to do to ensure that we 
maintain that commitment. There's 
a real consensus that that's part of 
<what we do good.'" But staffing all the 
classes of English 125, 127, and 129 
depends upon a large body of junior 
faculty who teach more introductory 
courses than senior professors do. If 
the ratio of junior to senior faculty 
(currently 20:23 filled appointments) 
remains the same, will Yale honestly 
earmark the resources to tenure all of 
them? 

Hammer believes the new sys-
tem 
for representing faculty re-
sources is primarily descriptive, not 
prescriptive. "I don't see that the new 
accounting system mandates any par-
ticular ratio of junior to senior faculty, 
or otherwise promises to structure 
what departments do. I think it's sim-
ply a new way of describing how fac-
ulty resources are allotted and spent." 

As Yale can no longer feed junior fac-
ulty JFE excuses, the new system will 
force departments to deny them ten-
ure on the basis of their ,work. Eng-
lish Professor William Deresiewicz 
points to places like S~ford, which 
has a tenure track system but doesn't 
tenure an appreciably higher rate of 
junior faculty in the humanities. "So 
that's always going to be hanging over 
you to some degree." 

D 
eresiewicz is leaving Yale. In fact, 
after nine years as a much-loved 
junior professor in the English de-
partment, Deresiewicz is leaving aca-
demia altogether, and not exactly by 
choice. His tenure clock has run out, 
and the department concluded there 
were no openings in his field, 19th 
Century British literature. The long 
ten-year tenure clock has left Dere-
siewicz out of sync with the hiring 
patters of the rest of academia. There 
are few jobs advertised, and the ones 
he applied for he didn't get. The new 
system has reduced the tenure clock 
from ten to nine years, a move that, 
combined with the two years of leave, 
may help prevent the situation that 
Deresiewicz now faces. 

"It's very hard to get a job as an 
associate professor in term," Deresie-
wicz explains. "It's an in-between rank 
that schools don't usually hire at. So 
you're either left applying for a senior 
position, and you're at a disadvantage 
because you're not already tenured, or 
you're applying for a junior position 
and a lot of schools won't even consid-
er someone because they have to pay 
them too much, or because they have 
to tenure them too fast when they get 
Everyone wants 
their fair shot, 
provide 
THE NEw JouRNAL 


--- Page 35 ---

there." TheEnglishdepartment'sstatis-
tics suggest that Deresiewicz's experi-
ence in not representative. According 
to H ammer, over the past twenty years 
the vast majority of advanced assistant 
and associate professors in English 
have been able to move on to tenured 
or tenure-track positions at colleges or 
research universities. 

Nonetheless, the theme is re-
current in conversation. While Bell 
skipped out early to Johns Hopkins, he 
watched two of his former colleagues 
await a tenure decision, only to be 
ow they will get 
ale has refused to 
M ay 2007 
denied. "One of them is now working 
at the Beinecke Library, and the other 
is working at a public policy organi-
zation in New York. Their careers are 
completely derailed," Bell laments. "If 
they had come up for tenure earlier, 
they would have been able to apply 
for junior level positions, but now it's 
too late." Bell compared these experi-
ences to a candidate who was recently 
denied tenure at Johns Hopkins. "He 
was able to turn it around and apply 
for junior positions at other places. If 
this had happened, you know, three 
years later, like it would at Yale, he 
might well be just kicked out of the 
field entirely." Yale's long tenure clock 
permits a department to postpone 
the bad news. "I think," Bell concludes, 
"it would be better if Yale were hard-
hearted with people earlier on." 

T
here will always be a tension be-
tween the University's desire for 
the best faculty in the world (and 
the ruthless system it proscribes) and 
the intimate chats and personal rela-
tionships that pepper a department's 
daily life. For students, it would be 
like going to school with the admis-
sions department for eight years be-
fore applying to Yale. For internal 
candidates, Deresiewicz believes the 
"personal stuff" will always color the 
ostensibly objective system. "Aca-
demic human nature being what it 
is, internal tenuring decisions, as op-
posed to when we bring someone in 
from the outside, are always going to 
be bound up in personal relationships, 
in politics, and therefore in rumor, in 
mystery." 

Tenurereviewinherentlyinvolves 
judgments by friends and colleagues. 
And the awkward balance of depart-
mental camaraderie and ruthless com-
petition often makes it easier for senior 
faculty to avoid the topic of tenure 
with their juniors altogether. Deresie-
wicz realized in his third or fourth year 
that he wasn't sensing the promising 
"signals" from the department that 
some of his peers, who later received 
tenure, were. "No one from the senior 
faculty had used the word tenure to 
me in an official-or even scarcely in 
an unofficial-capacity before this 
year." Deresiewicz understands the 
tendency to tiptoe around the tenure 
topic. "Nobody wants to talk about it 
because it's a very uncomfortable sub-
ject. Because, quite frankly, it's a kind 
of structural violence. The people who 
are running it don't want to be asso-
ciated with this. You're doing some-
thing that's inherently, well, violent, so 
there's the tendency not to be upfront 
about it, not to be honest about it. And 
that's a problem." 

In his sixth year, Deresiewicz 
had the required "six-year review," 
when associate professors can be 
promoted to associate professors on 
term. 

He received the promotion, 
but he remembers vividly sitting in 
his Chair's office, listening to her 
discuss his work, and waiting for the 
subject of tenure to come up. It never 
did. The sore point for Deresiewicz 
is not being denied tenure so much as 
the inadequate communication that 
proeceeded it. "The point is that they 
need to start talking about it earlier," 
he says. 

The tenure committee's report 
places additional emphasis on the re-
quired third and sixth year reviews. 
But the tenure committee also hopes 
to spark a more informal university-
wide discussion that may assuage 
some of that violence with dialogue. 
"I think what junior faculty members 
have felt, and what the University has 
come to feel, is that the junior faculty 
is a remarkable resource of the Uni-
versity that hasn't been sufficiently 
drawn upon and maximized," re-
marked Hammer. "And I would say 
simply talking about it is healthy, and 
a promising first step." The Yale com-
munity will have to wait to see what 
the report's changes amount to. But 
at a place like Yale that both nurtures 
and depends upon an open exchange 
of ideas, a real conversation about 
this contentious topic is an achieve-
ment in and of itself. And the Univer-
sity, finally, seems willing to talk. 
1NJ 
Sophia Lear, a junior in Ezra Stiles 
College, is a Senior Editor ofTNJ. 


**Title: Elis Recall a Formative Six Weeks at TASP**
**Author: Tess Dearing**
**Page number(s): 36**

n a steamy July morning, sleepy students slowly 
trickle into a small seminar room at Cornell U niver-
sity. Mugs of coffee and tea in hand, they drop thick, 
annotated tomes of medieval literature onto a horseshoe of 
worn wooden tables. Their minds sated by the hundreds of 
pages crammed into them the night before, the students mur-
. mur quietly amongst themselves, critically perusing copies of a 
classmate's paper on The Letters of Abelard and Heloise. De-
spite the early hour and oppressive heat, the classroom pulsates 
· with minds revving in intellectual anticipation. Two professors 
call the class to attention, and a group session of intense cri-
tique and analysis commences. The students jump with electric 
speed from style to content to themes to philosophy to meta-
textual concerns, pushing one another to breach the boundar-
ies of their intellectual comfort zones. They tackle the impact 
of particular rhetorical techniques, the distinctions between 
masculine and feminine v.oice, and the role of Biblical allusions . 
After three hours, they break for lunch. 

While this scene is typical of many an Ivy League seminar, 
none of these students are in college. In fact, they aren't even 
out of grade school. Many of them don't have driver's licenses, 
and none of them can vote. They are rising high school seniors, 
barely 17, all part of the Telluride Association Su1nmer Pro-
gram, an intensive, six-week seminar program established in 
1954. TASP students attend class for three 'hours every week-
day, receive no grades, and earn no academic credit. Most of 
the fifty states are represented and, while most participants are 
American, some hail from as far as Singapore. They come from 
trailers in the heartland, from mansions on the coasts, from 



**Title: The Telluride Association Summer Program**
**Author: Liz Dearing**
**Page number(s): 37-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
apartments in the metropolitan centers. Some have never 
attended a creative writing class. Others have already 
composed award-winning plays. 

In some ways, the TASP application process is 
equally, if not more, competitive than those of the top 
universities most TASP students will later attend. Appli-
cations are mailed to those who score in the 99th percentile 
of the PSAT, although high sch~ol teachers can recom-
mend outstanding students to the program and a recent 
change in policy allows highly motivated prospective at-
tendees to download the application and go it alone. To 
enter a TASP classroom, applicants must write six lengthy 
essays and undergo rigorous interviews. About seventy 
students are accepted to the program at the end of this 
long process, and all of them are awarded a scholarship 
to attend one of five seminars held at colleges around the 
country. These classes cover topics such as "The Dilem-
ma of Modernism," "The Battle of the Sexes in Medieval 
and Renaissance Literature," "Race, Class, and Gender in 
British and American History," "War, Violence, and Sto-
rymaking," and "The Mystery of Creativity" -titles that 
could be lifted from many a university course catalogue. 

A hefty handful of TASP alumni matriculate at 
Yale each fall, and many grace the ranks of Directed 
Studies, a selective freshman program that takes a writ-
ing-intensive and interdisciplinary approach to the study 
of the Western Canon. They are well-prepared. Thanks 
to TASP, these students have already shared a house, man-
aged a collective budget, and been tutored by renowned 
professors. Joshua Garcia, a Yale sophomore who attended 
TASP at Cornell in 2004, looked back on his experience, 
saying, "It was one of the most intense intellectual experi-
ences I ever had and that I will have." 

As a former TASP student myself, I recognize the deep 
intellectual awakening, the feeling of academic possibility 
that the program inspires. I have also come to accept its 
inherent transience. Now, I wonder if it is healthy for these 
bright minds to arrive at college with soaring intellectual 
expectations that are almost bound to be dashed by the 
university system. After all, it seems unnatural for a fresh-
man to enter a world of education less ideal and less iso-
lated than the one he or she had previously encountered. I 
find myself questioning the advantage of the fragile state 
of enlightenment the program offers its attendees. Is this 
singular scholarly community too unreal to be of value? 


All students who participate in TASP quickly embrace 
their new identities as "TASPers," hoping to gain 
what the official 2007 brochure calls "a sense of intellec-
tual purpose and community responsibility." Described 
in promotional materials as "semi-monastic," the TASP 
program discourages participants from associating with 
anyone outside the community for the duration of the 
program in order to foster an undistracted dedication to 
the spirit of the experience. The program is also described 
as "semi-autonomous," and, in many ways, every TASP 
group runs itself. TASPers meet once a week for a "town 
meeting" to discuss issues of communal relevance, allo-


Undergraduate rf!embers of the Cornell Telluride House. 
cate funds, and plan social activities. 

TASPers also shoulder kitchen duties, 
chores, and other household respon-
sibilities. They. quickly realize that 
th~ , quality of their summer experi-
ence, both intellectually and socially, 
depends heavily on their individual 
contributions to the community. 

TASP is a branch of the Tellu-
ride Association, which was· founded 
in 1911 by ·Lucien L. Nunn, a min-
ing engineer who made it big in the 
mineral-ri'?h Rockies. Nunn, hop-
ing to educate the young men who 
worked for him, dedicated his for-
tune to the Telluride Association and · 
Deep Springs College. On its website, 
the Association defines itself as "a 
nonprofit organization that creates 
and fosters educational communities 
that ·rely upon democratic participa-
tion.'~ Telluride's mission is complex: 
it aims at an "everyday synthesis of 
self-governance and intellectual in-
quiry that enables students to devel-
op their potential for leadership and · 
public service.'' TASPers are often 
reminded of this philosophy by their 
paid "factota" 
one or two college 
or graduate students who live and at-
tend classes with each seminar group. 

Far from traditional camp counsel-
ors, the factota live up to their Latin 
names 
c'those who do everything." 

In addition to attending seminar with 
the students, the factota help them 
· with their papers and often become 
close with their summer wards, fill-
ing the roles. of sibling, coach, mentor, 
and friend. 

For many of its participants, TASP 
offers a six-week utopia for nerdy, 
tortured teens who prefer poetry read-
ings to pep rallies: "People need TASP 
to get away from the real world," said 
Emma Griffin, a TASPer and current 
Yale freshman. Griffin recognizes the 
surreal elements of the TASP experi-
ence, but maintains that the students 
who participate in it are hungry for an 
intellectual and social experience un-
available to them in high school. Intel-
lectualism, especially in an American 
grade school, can lead to profound 
alienation. By contrast, these small 
conununities of adolescent intellectu-
als take on the character of Thoreau's 
Walden as their members attempt to 
build an insular, erudite existence that 
is not only mentally superior, hut al-
together separate from their quotid-
ian lives. Tae-Yeoun Keum, a junior, 
believes that highly creative minds 
lead lives that are "very solitary, very 
lonely, very terrifying." TASP gave 
Keum what she called the "greatest 
kind of support: to know that you are 
not alone." 

This communal feeling of dis-
placement facilitates an oddly powerful 
sense of trust among TASPers. There is 
a sense of confidence that fosters per-
sonal exposure and rapid intellectual 
development. Both seminar and daily 
routines are characterized by intima-
tions of deep connection; TASPers re-
ally are there to help one another. Junior 
Jacob Eigen, an alumnus of both TASP 
and Deep Springs, felt extremely isolat-
ed as a high school student and found 
a novel sense of community during his 
Telluride sutnmer. "TASP was really 
the one thing I did in high school that 
made me want to spend time with other 
people ... whatever personal trust took 
place had to do with whatever intellec-
tual trust was there." Stacey Fitzgerald, 
a sophomore, expressed a similar opin-
ion. "When I went to TASP, I spoke 
more freely that I ever have .... There 
was nothing wrong with being wrong." 

This openness stems from the 
deep respect TASPers feel for their 
companions. Such regard derives in 
part from · the students' awareness 
of the admissions criteria, which fo-
cus not only on intellectual prowess 
but also on personal maturity and 
self-awareness. Matt Morello, who 
graduated from Yale in 2004, wrote 
of his TASP experience ih an e-mail, 
recalling that cc most of all, the other 
kids were so amazingly smart and 
curious 
I felt awfully lucky to have 
made it there, not to mention freed 
by the blank slate to be myself, and 
motivated like maybe never before 
or again to prove and define myself 
in the context of that group." Many 
TASPers believe that the students sit-
ting across from thenr in seminar are 
the most intelligent and interesting 
people they have ever encountered. 

Elis, too, are often filled with awe of 
their peers. Sylvia Bingham, a sopho-
more, said that "everyone poo-poos 
the pretentious and elitist aspects of 
TASP, but Yale has the same appeal. 
They are both so competitive that you 
end up with only the most dynamic 
people who care about academics." 

Garcia believes early submersion in


this culture of excellence may, ironi-
cally, leave TASPers more level-head-
ed than their current classmates. "[I 
learned] to accept my own merits 
because of who I am, not because of 
my talents. I was not the only talented 
person ... You have a few crises, asking 
yourself, 'Who am I? I am nothing.'" 

TASP, of course, is just a sum-
mer endeavor, and, like any other 
camp, it inevitably comes to an end as 
TASPers disband and return to their 
respective high schools for their senior 
year. Most TASPers find this transi-
tion difficult. Keum admitted that 
"TASP made senior year unbearable." 

Liz Tulis, a Yale graduate student and 
College alumna who attended TASP 
in 1996, recalled that her last year of 
high school was characterized by a 
"shadow life" of nearly daily e-mail ex-
changes with her closest TASP friends. 

If TASPers find it difficult to relate to 
their peers before leaving for Cornell 
or UT Austin, they become even more 
disoriented after their summers away 
from home. Morello reflects, "How, 
after all, is real life supposed to com-
pete with six weeks of dawn-busting, 
17 -year-old-soul-baring 
conversa-
tions? Ultimately, of course, real life 
won, but goddarnn if that didn't take 
a while."' Many TASPers spend their 
senior year in furious anticipation of 
college, which they hope will provide 
a kind of reincarnation of TASP. 

Whether or not this rebirth 
comes to fruition-whether college 
can best, or even match, TASP's intel-
lectual intensity-is often question-
able. Griffin chose to come to Yale be-
cause ofTASP-she believed that Elis 
"were the most similar to TASPers and 
felt the same way about knowledge."' 

At the same time, she did not expect 
Yale to be TASP. "I didn't have a dis-
appointment in comparison to TASP. 
They are different experiences." 

Many alumni, unable to avoid 
comparing the two scholastic 
ventures, notice a void in their intel-
lectual and social lives at Yale that was 
filled at TASP. Garcia expected his ex-
periences in writing classes to be like 
TASP, but now knows that TASP-
style workshopping "won't happen 


again."' He says, "My intellectual ex-
perience at Yale is very rushed,"' said 
Garcia, who deplored the discrepancy 
between the two hours a week de-
voted to seminars in college and the 
daily three-.hour classes he enjoyed 
that summer. "At TASP, we had op-
portunities to talk about everything." 

Fitzgerald agreed that her intellectual 
expectations were deflated at Yale. 
"TASP," she said, "idealized the aca-
demic life." 

Most TASPers search for traces 
of their cultish summer bliss at Yale. 
"Of course I looked for TASP at Yale," 
Morello wrote. "It was the only taste 
of collegiate, academic, non-home life 
I'd yet had." Many turn to Directed 
Studies, hoping to find three year-
long TASP seminars. Keum found 
that the intensive freshman program 
and TASP are, in some ways, similar 
programs. "At TASP, everywhere I 
went, I could see people working." At 
Yale, these kindred spirits exist-in 
the library. "There was one day when 
I was in the Newspaper Room in 
Sterling reading Dostoevsky. All of a 
sudden, I looked up and saw another 
DSer across from me at the table. He 
had his Dostoevsky in front of him 
and his Nietzsche beside it. Our eyes 
met in profound Dostoevsky-ian em-
pathy." This kind of solidarity-the 
sense that everyone is collectively 
banging their brains against difficult 
texts-characterizes both TASP and 
certain tightly-knit classes at Yale. 

Nevertheless, Keum described her 
TASP seminar as something Yale has 
yet to match. While she spent much 
of Directed Studies "too scared tore-
flect," TASP offered "a center that we 
all contributed to." 

While TASP readied its students 
for their coursework, it could 
not prepare 'them for the social atmo-
sphere at Ya]e. Bingham feels that her 
experience at Yale lacks the particu-
lar closeness that TASP engenders. "I 
thought Yale would force me to get 
to know people who were different 
from me." She was disappointed. "I 
still feel like my circle of friends is 
very predictable."' 

Bingham also noted that the 
culture of TASP was notable for its 
lack of debauchery. "At TASP, there 
was no drinking, no sex, no alcohol. 
The monasticism was particularly 
great. Here, there is such a bouooary 
between people who drink, have sex, 
flirt and those who don't. At TASP, 
there was a sense that everyone should 
contribute to everyone's education." 

"On weekend nights at TASP," Garcia 
recalled, "we didn't go out. We didn't 
get drunk. We talked to each other all 
night. This doesn't really happen here." 

Morello paints a similarly stark 
picture of Yale's crowded social scene. 
"I don't think I was disappointed by 
Yale so much as overwhelmed, • he 
said. "Neither TASP nor my small pri-
vate high school had prepared me for 
anything like the ass-and-booze fes-
tival of Camp Yale ... I feel like I had 
to junk whatever expectations for col-
lege I'd formed at TASP within a few 
days or weeks of starting actual col-
lege-friends, freedom, and work at 
Yale were part of a much longer haul in 
a much bigger, more diverse place. • 

For young intellectuals, how 
can any experience possibly match the 
ecstasy of a summer spent living and 
learning with smart, thoughtful peers, 
at the developmental fulcrum that is 
late adolescence? 

Many TASPers derive satisfaction 
from the way in which TASP, while a 
fleeting experience, has permanently 
changed them. "What TASP gave me 
more than an expectation of the world 
was a vision of myself, a sense of what 
I could be," said Keum. "I was close to 
my ideal self, being able to throw my-
self so completely and passionately into 
something I was doing. When I was 
leaving TASP, I shared a cab with two 
other TASPers. We were silent and then 
gradually realized we were all thinking 
the same thing: I do not want to return 
to my old mundane self ... here, we 
don't have the social support to do that 
again. But it doesn't matter, I don't 
think, as long as you know you are 
capable of it. It is in some ways a lost 
golden age.• 

Liz Dearing, a sophomore in Berkeley 
College, is an Associate Editor of 
TN].



**Title: The Roads More Traveled**
**Author: Emily Koh**
**Page number(s): 41-42**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Robert Frost was one acquainted with the night, and 
so am I. I have, on occasion, driven through it. 
My father works near the College, and when he 
takes trips out of town he parks his car by the office so I 
can use it while he's gone. I do. When I have studied for too 
long and read too much and the day's scenes begin to share a 
flatness of scope, my mind becomes adrift with thoughts of 
other places and a desire for movement, so I get into his car 
and drive. 

I have been one acquainted with the night. 
I have walked out in rain-and back in rain. 
I have outwalked the furthest city light. 
I have looked down the saddest city lane. 
I have passed by the watchman on his beat. 
And dropped my eyes, unwilling to explain. 

Frost wrote these lines. When I read them earlier this year 
for class, I considered all the times I have gone out into 
the rain and returned, all the times that I have dropped my 
eyes from passersby at night, willed the darkness to absorb 
my form and permit me to travel unobserved. 

When I drive, I never go far. I might become lost and not 
know how to retrace my path. My concern, however, does 
not eliminate the allure of spontaneity. In the car, I could ride 
southontheinterstateintoNewYorkCityorwesttoPaloAlto 
or Seattle. I could head to Chicago and book a ilight out of 
O'Hare to Paris or Milan or drive along the Boston Post Road 
to Florida and board a helicopter headed for one of the Keys. 
I consider my options fleetingly but dismiss them. Of course I 
could venture to all these far off places, but I never do. Instead, 
I stay close to home and travel to familiar spots, places perma-
nently marked on my mental map. 

Often, when one speaks of trips by car, the pur-
pose behind such travel is escape. The shouts grow 
too loud in the house and the sole recourse is a swift 
exit through the kitchen's rear door. One needs to be 
somewhere else, and the car is both a means of escape 
and a place in itself. 

The trips I take, however, arise from an entirely 
different need: a desire not to break free of ties, but to 
tighten their strings. I drive not to flee the places that 
tire me but to revisit those from which I have long been 
away. 

As it happens, driving is the way I keep in touch. 
The routes of my trips are improvised but revolve 
around specific plot-points. There are certain spots 
that I never fail to drive past: the Prospect Street apart-
ment with the deep red inner walls, the Huntington 
Street home with a spruce-colored door and crimson 
curtains. The house on Everit painted pale yellow with 
black trim, graced by a low brick fence in front and ge-
raniums in the first floor window. I have never set foot 
in this house, but I've imagined eating breakfast there 
and spending winter mornings wrapped in blankets on 
the plush couches I see from the street. 

All of my stops are domestic. I am drawn to them 
by ornamental details-crimson curtains, geraniums-
that I instantly filed into my long-term memory. I am 
a magpie, tucking specific items and decorative traits 
into my nest for later assembly. 

During my drives on Prospect, I begin to notice a 
man seated at his desk before the second floor window, 
presumably hard at work. Whether he ever moves I 
cannot say, for he is always positioned exactly as I last 
left him, with the light from an unseen monitor illumi-
nating his face and infusing the dark room with a subtle, 
pulsing glow. Over time, I have come to rely on his 
presence. He has become the primary plot-point on my 
map, the first sign that all is in order, that I am properly 
charting the course. 

Another plot-point: my own home not seven min-
utes away from central campus. Some of its lights remain 
on, and I wonder who is awake within 
it. My brother, perhaps, his bedroom 
window still lit. That room used to be 
mine before I left for college and he of-
ficially took it over. Its position at the 
front of the house allows it to take in 
more light than any other room. Now, 
when I'm home, I sleep in a bedroom 
down the hall that overlooks the black-
top driveway. The weeping beech that 
envelops the drive blocks light from 
entering it. For that reason, the precise 
time of day is hard to determine and 
the position of stars difficult to chan 
from inside this room. 

In primary and high school I nev-
er escaped from home by car. Instead 
I sought solace in that room at the 
front of the house. I would run up-
stairs, lock the door, and-guided by 
a teen's wistful and romantic sensibil-
ity-stare out the window searching 
for some clue hidden amongst the 
stars. Where was fulfillment? How 
could I achieve it? Could I actually 
transpon myself to a happier, clearer, 
more satisfied state? Did the solu-
tions to all my anxieties and insecu-
rities reside in New York, Austin, or 
San Francisco? I rarely stare wist-
fully out of windows now but con-
tinue to toss such questions around 
while driving. The only difference 
between those years and these is that 
I no longer expect answers to reveal 
themselves in the sky. 

Growing up, many of my fam-
ily's most involved conversa-
tions took place in the car. It was the 
mobile stage upon which countless 
scenes were set. 

In the car, I cried and yelled as a 
result of these talks. Most of all, I lis-
tened. The car was where my parents 
offered their best advice, dispensed 
whatever wisdom they'd accrued from 
years of trial and error. It was where 
we discussed history and politics and 
where they recounted childhood tales. 
It was in the car that my parents told 
me, in one way or another, that if I 
worked steadily and consistently put 
fonh my best, I would succeed. 

Conversations of this type were 
often conducted on drives to and from 
the houses of my relatives. Subse-
quently, I began to conflate the route 
with the destination. While much is 
made of the notion that the destina-
tion pales in comparison to the jour-
ney, this outlook fails to acknowledge 
the extent to which familiarity with 
cenain byways actually enhances 
the experience of arrival. Take, for 
example, Route 25A, the road my 
family drives along to reach my 
grandparent's front door in Syosset, 
New York. 

I've traveled this road 
on weekdays throughout the sum-
mer and weekends in the fall when 
the sunset sky matches the hue of the 
changing leaves. I've traveled along it 
on the day after Christmas and Easter 
Sundays. I traveled along 25A to at-
tend my grandfather's funeral. 

25A sparks a series of associa-
tions in my mind: Split Rock Road, 
grandma, roast beef and sweet pota-
toes, interrupted anecdotes, cups of 
tea drunk late at night. When I travel 
along 25A, I already know precisely 
where I am headed. This panicular 
destination does not arise from deci-
sions made along the drive. Rather, 
the familiar route makes the endpoint 
clear from the start; no division exists 
between the two. In my mind, 25A 
leads only to one place. 

Most roads, however, are not as-
sociated with remembrances of sweet 
potatoes and tea. Most roads serve 
solely as throughways, means to 
travel from one location to the next. 
Self-deception is universal, and the 
tactics employed to support it hard to 
pierce. Driving from house to house, 
piecing together those ornaments 
collected for the magpie's nest-
these tactics substitute for searches 
amongst stars from inside a locked 
room. I am no less na1ve about my 
pursuit of that elusive something. I 
still trust the search, refusing to ac-
knowledge its futility. 

In the car, isolated from the out-
side, I deliberately suspend time for a 
spell and drive unaware of whatever 
hour the clock reads. Locked in my 
vehicle, I reflect on the emotional risk 
involved in setting off on my own, the 
nerve necessary to go it alone with-
out peripheral support. I consider the 
pluck needed to embark on a journey 
unsure of where it will conclude. I con-
sider the way in which my car serves as 
a ponable fonress sheltering me from 
the outside air and how, as its driver, 
my search through the outside world 
is still conducted in a space that is de-
cidedly enclosed. 

Emily Koh, a junior in jonathan Ed-
wards College, is a Senior Editor of 
TNJ.


**Title: The Boutique**
**Author: Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 43-45**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
. • 
May 2007 
• . 
The 
Boutique cakes are on the rise in Connecticut . 
by Adriane 
uinlan 
ustomers ask the Vona sisters for fire trucks, hamburgers, and 
trumpets. They demand kittens. Could you make me a red 
sneaker, like an Adidas sneaker? A reclining cheetah, complete 
with spots oh, and, can you put him on a bed of jungle grass? 
Whatever the order, the Vonas provide. All it takes is sugar, flour, eggs, 
butter, baking soda, and buttercream frosting. "I bring ideas to life 
using 
cake," says the slender, sharp-nosed Sofia Marini, pushing up her hairnet. 
"For grass we use coconut, for water we use royal icing. We have to get ere-
-
ative." Along with her two younger sisters, Sofia owns and runs The Cake 
Boutique, an unconventional bakeshop that sells its goods "by appoint-
ment only" and is known in wealthy Wilton, Connecticut for its "Shaped 
Custom Cakes." 

Business is booming, and the turn-of-the century carriage house the 
girls bought four years ago is starting to feel cramped. The kitchen's large 
single oven will cook ten separate cakes over the next two days, all ordered 
for Easter Sunday. Spending upwards of twenty hours to concoct each in-
dividual dessert means that the sisters often stay in the kitchen until two 
or three in the morning. Sonya and Sandra joke that if they bake a cake for 
their eldest sister, it will take the form of a Dunkin' Donuts · cup because 
Sofia is "always attached to a cup of coffee." 

These days, it seems that everyone in Wilton wants a sculpted cake. 
Driving up Danbury Road~to the boutique, the sisters pass their old high 
school and continue past gentrified strips of antique stores and cozy cafes. 
"It's a cute town," Sofia said, "with people who will spend money on cakes." 
At twelve dollars per slice for pa1ticularly difficult forms (witness the chee-
tah), the Cake Boutique's clientele is limited. You can tell by perusing the 
cakes in their backlog; one client ordered a cake shaped like a purse, filled 
-with cookies sculpted after her choice cosmetics 
Chanel Glossimier, Vega 
eye-shadow, and "Mystery Blush." You can now have your designer bag 
and eat it too. Consumerism becomes consumption. 

The Vona enterprise is just the latest slice of an American baking trend 
_ that started in the 70s, when sculpted cakes were displayed to attract fair-
goers. At the top tier of that movement was Roland A. Winbeckler, a baker 
who stacked his reputation on life-sized cakes resembling celebrities from 
Christopher Columbus to a midriff-baring Cher. Last TV season, the ce-
lebrities he carved stepped aside to let cake sculptors share the limelight, 
courtesy of the Food Network reality series Ace of Cakes, which tracked 
43 


A British baker wins internet stardom for 
sculpting a baby-shaped cake . 
the day-to-day stresses of a Baltimore 
bakeshop that once iced an exact replica of 
Wrigley Field. 

Historically cakes have been round, 
as that is the natural shape of rising dough. 
(Batter came later, as pans were invented.) 
But because the delicacy is eaten almost ex-
.. elusively on special occasions, the shape of 
cake has taken on more significance. Ro-
mans impressed their cakes with stamps 
depicting gods; Russians ate round cakes in 
·praise of the sun; and Chinese cooks served 
round mooncakes to honor the goddess of 
the moon. We bake what we praise. 

In 1976, Winbeckler baked a cake in . 
the shape of Colonel Sanders, founder of 
Kentucky Fried Chicken, and presented to 
the god a cake in his own image. The Col-
onel asked, "Is it chicken flavored?" More 
recently, police officers arrested a Connecti-
cut bride for hurling slices of cake at cater-
ers who had closed the bar. Upon arrest, she 
attempted to bite an officer. When the cake 
is a weapon, and the man is a cake, can we 
no longer distinguish what is edible, what is 
real, and what is cake? 
. 
Welcome to the realist movement of 
culinary arts, where customer testimonials 
on the bakery's website praise the Vonas as 
"artists." One Wilton mother attested that, 
for her son's bar mitzvah, the sisters had 
"created an actual boat so stunningly accu-
rate that many guests thought it could not 
possibly BE a cake!" It was a success, as re-
alist art is, because it deceived its audience. 

Growing up, the sisters joined their 
mother, a homemaker, in trying new dessert 
e come to t e rea tst 
movement o cu znar 
arts, w ere customer 
testtmonza s razse t e 
onas as ''artists. '' 
' 


recipes every Sunday after lunch. Their fa-
ther, a stonemason, sat back and ate. "His 
medium is stone," said Sofia. "He made 
beautiful things out of stone." The Vonas' 
craft melds their parents' professions. Just 
as their father once carved rock, today they 
lean over teetering towers of stacked sheet 
cake and, with lean knives, cut away to un-
cover the forms buried within. "Actually a 
lot of people tell us they don't want to cut 
into the cake," Sofia said. "They don't wan-
na destroy it." But the Vona sisters know 
better. Moved by artistic mettle, their brave 
carving recalls a statement of Michelangelo 
that their father might have known: "I saw 
the angel in the marble and carved until I 
set him free." 

A popular video posted on YouTube 
shows a British baker sculpting a block of 
chocolate cake into a near-perfect replica of 
a slumbering human baby, complete with 
tiny, curled fingers molded of peach fondant. 
The final cake seems innocent, almost ador-
able. But comments from the videos viewers 
seethe with disgust: What sicko would want 
to eat a baby? Such a question is central to 
cake sculpting. Why do we desire to ingest 
what we love? To eat the work of cake is akin 
to Communion, wherein we take that which 
we love inside of ourselves in a cannibalistic 
ritual. 

"Eventuallytheymaketheirwayimoit," 
Sofia said of her timid customers. "They wan-
na see what's inside." To know the cake, they 
must destroy it. To fully love it, they must gut 
it. Anne, a Wilton bride, wrote to the Von a sis-
ters that she had overheard guests express-
ing surprise because "cakes that are pretty 
usually don't taste good." It's a lesson those 
attendees might have learned anywhere in 
life. Perhaps it is only in cake art that surface 
and interior arc equally rewarding, that what 
is beautiful is also kind, and also sort of deli-
cious, and buttery, and downright satisfying. 
1NJ 
Adriane Quinlan, a senior in Calhoun Col-
Lege, is the former Editor-in-Chief ofTNJ. 



**Title: Bard-hopping**
**Author: Ben Lasman, Nick Handler, and Ali Seitz**
**Page number(s): 46-47**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
I 
. 
Bard-hopping 
by Ben Lasman, Nick Handler, 
and Ali Seitz 
It is one a.m. at the all-:night Shakespeare marathon in 
Linsley-Chittenden Hall. Shakespeare enthusiasts abound, 
grouped in rooms according to dramatic genre: history, 
tragedy, comedy, miscellaneous. Enter Ben Lasman, Nick 
Handler, and Ali Seitz, armed with notebooks. 
Scene i: Ben Lasman, journalistic rogue, observes the players. 
By 1:30, only two people remain in the Miscellaneous 
room. One, his_ face engulfed by The Collected Works of Wil-
liam Shakespeare, recites "Sonnet 152" in a stentorian tone. 
His partner stands at attention, book in hand, like a tag-team 
wrestler primed to enter the ring. Had these poets decided to 
stage their soliloquies on the corner of York and Elm Street 
instead of within the warmly-lit interiors of Yale's English 
department, most passersby would have thrown them some 
change. Rather than repelling onlookers with their bra-
zen dorkiness, the speakers project the dignified aura often 
claimed by Civil War reenactors. Perfonming for itself, the 
old guard stands for history in an age of 1mimpeded progress, 
promoting the immortal relevance of artistic tradition against 
the fleeting affectations of YouTube. 

They want to share their message and will go to great 
lengths to do so. The first orator, a graduate student at Boston 
University, traveled all the way from Massachusetts to attend 
the Bardic festival. "My friend and I got a bunch of e-tnails 
about it and decided, 'Hey, it's a way to spend a Saturday 
night,'" explained the attendee. As he rifles through an ava-
lanche of dog-eared folios in search of All's Well That Ends 
Well, his companion launches into "Sonnet 154." With 
the clock ticking and over a dozen full-length works left 
to read, the pair flips pages, picks roles, and presses on to 
the next play. 
· 
Scene ii: Nick Handler knavishly infiltrates History. 
Bleary-eyed and adrift in the LC hallway, I am yanked 
into the History room, where an unshaven thespian in an 
ill-fitting polo shirt pleads, "Do you want to be the Duke 
· of Orleans?" With no time to respond, I am thrust into 
the middle of a circle of chairs alongside the Dauphin and 
Lord Rainbures, who hands me a dusty copy of Henry V. 
The King lounges in the English camp near the window 
with his plastic sword, contemplating the imminent bat-
tle at Agincourt. A gawky Lear stands outside the door, 
looking for an Edmund. 

We are at the end of Act III, in the French camp near 
the blackboard. The night before the battle is dragging on, 
and I am growing tense. ·After forty minutes of Dauphin 
stumbling through a verbose insult of my horse, I begin to 
understand the Duke's impatience: "Will it never be morn-
ing?" Enter King Henry in Ralph Lauren armor and wire-
rim glasses, lamenting histrionically, "Thou proud dream 
. that plays so subtly with a king's repose ... " 
1:45 .. . 
2:00 .. . 
By 2:30, I am looking for some repose of my own. 
Tired and fed up with King Henry's whining, my last 
lines come with a little extra energy: 
"What a wretched and peevish fellow is this king of 
England, to mope with his fat-brained followers so far out 
of his knowledge!" 
Exit Orleans. 
Scene iii: Ali Seitz, bastard son, finds pizza. 
"Will you be Edgar?" 
My chin drops, quivers a little, nods of its own accord. 
I am moved by the sincere expressions in the bright Trag-
edies room. 
I stutter slightly, my voice lilting with each new and un-
natural apostrophe, but I soon assume the confident speech 
of the spurned son Edgar. I relish the words "grime with 
filth." I sneer and cry in my passionate sorrow. For a mo-
ment, I giggle 
I giggle at King Lear, the mo st tragic of trag-
edies, where calamity is blamed not on witches but on silly 
humans like myself. But I labor to inhabit my lost Edgar 
once again, and disguise myself as Tom O'Bedlam. As I tum 
to my poor, ravaged father, my eyes meet his sockets, and we 
struggle to stay in character. As we embark on our tortured 
path to Dover, somebody yells "Pizza!". 
And we are alone. 
THE N Ew JoURNAL 


**Title: Spring Charity Bowl 2007**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 48**

Sprin C arityW k nd 2007 
Tho Spri\g Charity Bowt te an event that Is designed to promote a wookend of charitable wens In the Spmg Somoetor. 
O~i\aly dnlgnod to folow tho model of tho Collogo Charity Bowl, a natJon..Wido aubeldlary of tho Chratophor and Dana 
Reeve Foundation that has been organized on over thrty cologo campuaoe nationwide, tho Spring Charity Bowl has 
bocomo a muJU..faceted endeavor to hcorporate YaJo'l dlvorao atudont population i1 ono actlvly: ~ 
thoeo In nood. 
Runni\g from 12:00 to 4:00 PM on Friday, Aprl 27th 2007. this fi'at annual Spring Chartly Bowl wl feature a running 
onaomblo of atudont banda playing for tho enti'oty of Yalo to onjoy and an al-you·can-eat food festival, putting on display 
tho foods of New Havon'alocal restaurants and Yale's flnoat student chofa (or makoehlft talgatora). 
In addition, running concurrently with tho music and fOOd offori\ga, Yale atudont organizations w• bo glvon tho chance to 
enter tho participatory roatm of tho Bowl by competing hoad·to.hoad In tho Spri\g Charity BoWl Cup. Prosontod as a aorlot 
of fun and entertaining gamoa and actlvltlos for participants and audience all<o, tho Cup Is d081gnod to glvo thoee 
organizations on campus tho ablty to give back to thoao in noocs, whlo only roqul'ing a toam registration and a monetary 
donation. Tho winning toam of tho Cup, boaldoe Inheriting more than a fal' a hero of pride, wl bo crowned Spring Charity 
Bowl Grand Champion, and wl havo tholr organization's namo otched Into a perpetual plaque, to bo put on display on 
Yalo'a campus. 
Observing students have tho option to watch all of tho musical acta. Including former Battle of tho Banda wlnnora, and 
enjoy tho hBarlty and competition of tho Cup completely free of charge, and tho food foatlval ltaolr wl roqulro only a tmal 
donation. 
Tho Spring Charity Bowl II about more than tho ai\glo ovont, and tho alnglo day: It Is about oatablilhing a tradltlon of 
charitable worka i1 a fun and enjoyable setti1g, glvng ontortai1ment to tho Yalo community, whle almultanoou81y giving so 
much moro to tho wortd community at large. 
This yoar'a Spmg Charity Bowl d 
bo sponsorng tho Chrlltophor Reeve's Foundation for Paralyala and tho Boyt & Gins 
Club of New Haven. 
Christopher Reeve Found tlon 
GoFonwrd. 
SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON 
-
Students for Organ Donation 
Kappa 
Alpha 
Theta 

