Publication date: March 2012
Volume: 44
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Jimmy Murphy
- Editors-in-Chief: Max Ehrenfreund, Jacque Feldman
- Managing Editors: Juliana Hanle, Aliyya Swaby
- Photo & Design Editors: Brianne Bowen, Susannah Shattuck
- Senior Editors: Jessica Cole, Helen Knight, Sara Mich
- Production Manager: Andrew Calder
- Business Director: Whitney Schumacher
- Research Director: Nicholas Geiser
- Associate Editor: Emily Rappaport
- Chief Copy Editor: Heeseung Kim
- Copy Editors: Ava Kofman, Justine Yan
- Staff Writers: Laura Blake, Rachel Lipstein
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Roger Cohn, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O’Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
Points of Departure -  
Profile - Not Hungry by Ben Mueller
Critical Angle - Pillow Talk by Nicholas Geiser
Snapshot - A Fine Kettle of Fish by Cathy Huang
Endnote - by Aaron Gertler
FEATURES
Through the Spectrum - by Miriam Lauter
Fear of Needles - by Helen Knight
Smelling Blood - by Juliana Hanle
STANDARDS


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Profile: Not Hungry**
**Author: Ben Mueller**
**Page number(s): 12**


**Title: Critical Angle: Pillow Talk**
**Author: Nicholas Geiser**
**Page number(s): 16**


**Title: Snapshot: A Fine Kettle of Fish**
**Author: Cathy Huang**
**Page number(s): 20**


**Title: Endnote**
**Author: Aaron Gertler**
**Page number(s): 28**


**Title: Through the Spectrum**
**Author: Miriam Lauter**
**Page number(s): 36**


**Title: Fear of Needles**
**Author: Helen Knight**
**Page number(s): 44**


**Title: Smelling Blood**
**Author: Juliana Hanle**
**Page number(s): 46**




**Title: The Queen is Dead, Long Live the Queen**
**Author: Clare Randt**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
4
The New Journal
The Queen is 
Dead, Long Live 
the Queen
         POINTS OF DEPARTURE
where the ant colony is situated, 
noticed the fungus diminishing in size 
and expressed concern for the queen’s 
health.  
Leaf-cutter ants form the largest, 
most complex societies on earth, next 
to our own. Rival kingdoms in the 
Peabody’s Discovery Room—which 
include poison dart frogs from South 
America and thumb-sized hissing 
cockroaches from Madagascar—do 
not compare. Leaf-cutters belong 
to some of the oldest agricultural 
societies on earth, cultivating fungal 
gardens in finely tuned reciprocity. 
Fungal 
complexes 
have 
been 
discovered in the ants’ native tropics 
that are five hundred square feet in 
area and reach twenty-six feet below 
the ground, dimensions that, taking 
into account our much larger size, 
make the Great Wall of China look 
like a garden fence. 
Leaf-cutters appear to have 
unanimously adopted monarchism as 
their preferred form of government. 
Their entire social hierarchy is 
organized according to a simple 
principle. Size determines occupation, 
lifestyle, and every other quality an 
ant might wish to claim. The largest 
ants protect the nest from invaders. 
Middling castes include the foragers 
and the soldiers who protect them 
as they cut scraps of leaves and haul 
them back to the garden in orderly 
columns. The smallest care for the 
brood of larvae or attend, like ladies-
in-waiting, upon the queen, who 
continually produces eggs throughout 
her life.  The members of all of 
these castes are female, infertile, and 
dwarfed in size by the queen.  As with 
Abraham Lincoln or Lyndon Johnson, 
both six-foot-four, physical stature 
correlates with political power, and—
for ant queens—size is something one 
is born into.  
The old fungal garden in the 
Peabody, presided over by the now 
deceased and ever-unnamed queen, 
was, at its largest, about the size of a 
basketball. Built on top of hydrostone, 
a porous sculpting cement, the grayish-
green 
fungal 
garden—suggestive 
of moldy Swiss cheese—grew and 
shrank with the population of the ants 
and its own life cycle.  The ants are 
always carrying away dying fungus and 
bringing new leaf material to fertilize 
the garden. It is hard to see what the 
ants are doing inside the garden, but 
a long tube runs across the room to 
the leaf pile, supplied by New Haven 
trees, rosebushes, and other foliage. 
Visitors, especially children, enjoy 
watching the ants trundle back and 
forth with their jagged loads.


Without the queen, the whole 
colony must die. In captivity, a queen 
cannot lay reproductive eggs and 
ensure her succession. In the tropics, a 
queen begins her adult life with wings, 
flies up once, and mates in the air. 
During the nuptial flight, fertile males 
from many colonies rise to meet her in 
an aerial orgy. 
Once the queen is fertilized—
with up to 300 million sperm—she 
leaves her lovers, who promptly die, 
and returns to the ground. There, 
she loses her wings and burrows 
deep beneath the rainforest soil. First 
though, she stores a bit of fungus in 
her mouth to provide the first few 
spores for her colony. 
Though queens in the wild can 
live up to twenty years, conditions 
in captivity vary greatly, affecting 
the queens’ reproductive ability and 
Queen Victoria of England ruled 
for sixty-three years, seven months 
and two days before her death in 1901.  
In accordance with her meticulous 
instructions, the queen’s body was 
dressed in a white gown and her 
wedding veil, and beside her were 
placed the stipulated photographs, 
locks of hair, and a plaster cast of the 
hand of Prince Albert. On February 
2, her coffin was borne through the 
streets of London on a gun carriage. 
With perhaps less fanfare, after a 
reign of four years, another queen, in 
a kingdom on Whitney Avenue, was 
recently borne from her deathbed by 
a pair of forceps.   
The queen of the Yale Peabody 
Museum’s leaf-cutter ant colony is 
no more. Her death in late October 
would have gone unnoticed, says 
the discoverer of the body and the 
Peabody’s education coordinator, Jim 
Sirch, but for the gradual decline of 
the colony’s population. He noticed 
the size of the population stagnate 
and then fall about a month before 
her death was confirmed in the fall. 
It is hard, he explained, to quantify 
ants in the intricate, secretive, and 
microcosmic fungal garden they 
inhabit and cultivate. Staff, students, 
and visitors to the Discovery Room, 

5
March 2012
life cycles. The life and death of this 
queen was, to some degree, shrouded 
in mystery. The museum staff does 
not know whether she took ill or 
whether she was poisoned but they are 
not extremely perturbed, despite the 
effort it takes to get a new queen and 
painstakingly coax forth a vibrant new 
colony. Sirch has obtained a young 
queen and her foundling colony from 
the Boston Museum of Science, 
which, in turn, acquired them from 
the rainforest of Costa Rica.  
The new queen will rule over a 
growing population of ants and the 
burgeoning fungal garden in which 
her subjects harmoniously reside—
now the size of several stacked kitchen 
sponges. This new kingdom has been 
placed in a plastic container near the 
dying one on display in the Discovery 
Room. The old queen will likely be 
forgotten by all but the entomology 
department, 
which 
houses 
her 
remains.
Sirch had watched the queen’s 
slowing activity for several weeks as 
he stole glimpses of her through an 
opening in the garden. Movement that 
for some time he took for the queen’s 
was in fact only the stirrings of her 
ladies-in-waiting. Eventually, Sirch 
used forceps to pull out the queen, the 
size of a small mouse. She was dead. 
–Rachel Lipstein


**Title: Stopping the Presses**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Stopping the 
Presses
1981. The New Haven Register 
moved from a small office on Orange 
and Audobon to 40 Sargent Drive, 
a former shirt factory. Busloads of 
people came to tour the new state-
of-the-art Goss Metroliner printing 
presses. New Haven was the industry 
showroom. Rockwell International, 
the company that manufactured Goss 
Metroliners, featured the Register’s 
pressmen on the cover of its 1982 
catalogue with the headline “Winning 
Team in New Haven.” In the picture, 
you can see the men’s reflections in 
the gleaming floors.
Today, the floors are black and 
slippery, covered in ink. According 
to the Register’s press manager, Frank 
Malicki, 
the 
custodians 
stopped 
cleaning the floors about three or four 
years ago, which is how he knew the 
Journal Register East Company (the 
Register’s corporate owner, known 
as the JRC) would close down the 
printing press. “How did I know? 
The same thing happened on Orange 
Street.” Thirty-odd jobs at the press 
will be outsourced to the Hartford 
Courant’s plant over the course of four 
weeks. The press’s last run will be 
on March 4. Malicki started working 
for the Register as a sixteen-year-old 
delivery boy in 1970. When I asked 
him about the future, he said, “I don’t 
know. I need a job.”
This closure is one more sign 
of the transition from print to 
digital media, which has thrown the 
traditional news industry into chaos. 
But the Register has been struggling 
for a long time. Since the Jackson 
brothers, Richard and Lionel, sold 
the newspaper in 1986, there have 
been three corporate takeovers, a 
bankruptcy filing, and dozens of 
layoffs. 
The 
200,000-square-foot 
building at 40 Sargent Drive is now 
mostly empty. Last August, the trouble 
also affected editorial management. 
Longtime editor Jack Kramer, a thirty-
year veteran, was replaced by Matt 
DeRienzo.
Now, according to Paul Bass, the 
editor of the New Haven Independent, the 
Register “is at the forefront of trying 
to re-invent for-profit journalism.” 
Digital journalism is the paper’s long-
term strategy. In 2010, the newspaper 
gave every reporter a video camera. In 
addition, DeRienzo wants the paper 
to interact with an empowered online 
readership. He answers questions on 
online forums. As publisher of the 
Torrington Register Citizen, he invited the 
public to editorial meetings, which he 
streamed online through a live video 
feed. He also supervised the paper’s 
move to a downtown location that 
is both newsroom and coffee shop, 
a place where the public can interact 
with reporters as they work. DeRienzo 
hopes to make similar changes at the 
Register. 
Closing the press will allow 
the Register to focus its resources on 
expanding its online presence. Bobby 
Suraci, the shift manager, estimates 
that lighting the press alone costs 
$20,000 a month. Add the costs of 
paper, ink, manpower, and plates, 
and printing becomes incredibly 
expensive, to the tune of $975,000 a 
year. 
Although DeRienzo is the public 
face of the digital transition at the 
Register, he did not know what day 
the press would close, its location in 
the building, or whether any of the 
pressmen had jobs lined up.  “A lot of 
people in the front have never even 
come back here,” Suraci said. “They’re 
a few doors away and they have no 
idea we’re back here.” 
This separation between the 
newsroom and the pressroom is not 
unique to the Register, but it is difficult 
to ignore in light of the press’s 
imminent closure. The paper’s new 
editor is looking toward the future and 
is less concerned with the history of 
the business. At the time of writing, 
only one other person had visited 
the presses. When I asked DeRienzo


about historical records, he jokingly 
answered, “Your article!” 
The press is huge. It cuts through 
three floors and extends roughly 
the length of a football field. It is 
incredibly loud, forcing everyone to 
shout to be heard; it makes the floor 
vibrate and it is fast. When I visited, 
it was churning out forty thousand 
papers an hour, a visual whir. The 
future of this particular press, once 
the pride of the Register, is unknown. 
“I hope I’m wrong,” Malicki said, “but 
they’ll probably scrap it for metal.” 
	

In 
accordance 
with 
Connecticut law, the paper’s publisher 
notified the state of the imminent 
layoff of 105 employees. DeRienzo 
estimates that roughly seventy-five 
of them are part-time or short-term 
employees who work in the mailroom 
or in delivery. The others are the 
pressmen, the electricians, the plate-
makers, and the machinists. They 
stand to lose the most.
Malicki has stories. He remembers 
how Lionel Jackson would send him 
down the street to deliver ten thousand 
dollars in cash, and he remembers a 
catastrophic ink spill that left stains 
on the walls still visible today. Suraci 
started working one year after Malicki, 
in 1971. “I need health benefits,” 
Suraci said. “If it wasn’t for that, I’d 
take severance and unemployment 
and try to ride it out.” Many of the 
younger men have families to support 
and need to find work immediately.
State law is supposed to give 
communities a chance to deal with 
layoffs, but it has had no effect on 
the Register’s pressmen. A few will stay 
behind until May to decommission 
the press, which seems to mean 
scrubbing out all of the ink that has 
accumulated over the years. According 
to Suraci, two men have jobs lined 
up in Hartford. The rest are putting 
out résumés and going to interviews. 
The likelihood of finding more 
printing work is grim. “Will I go into 
the printing business? Probably not, 
’cause it’s a dying business,” Suraci 
said. “It’s the end of an era for us. It’s 
sad in a way, but you can see how the 
future is going.” 
	

Like the reporters in the 
newsroom, these men have been 
watching that future apprehensively 
for years as technology and the 
industry have changed. When Malicki 
started, the presses were still using lead 
plates, and there were over seventy 
men working in the pressroom, one 
for every unit. The Register sold its 
second printing press in the late 1990’s, 
and Suraci explained that the papers 
are now barely half their former 
width—down from sixty-four inches 
to the current standard of thirty-four 
inches—to save money. The paper 
storage room has never had any extra 
space, until now. The Register is trying 
to use up its inventory.
On one of the walls in the 
pressroom, the men have tacked up 
lists of all the printing presses that 
have closed in the United States 
since 2005. (According to Frank, 
the number is 120 since 2009.) One 
pressman scrawled, “WHO CARES?” 
Another pressman said, “We’re all 
dinosaurs.” I asked him about his 
plans in four weeks. He laughed. “Go 
to Disney World!” 
	
–Victoria Sanchez


**Title: X-Cubed**
**Author: Susannah Shattuck**
**Page number(s): 6**

X-Cubed
For Kanani Lee, a geophysicist 
working 
at 
Yale, 
key 
to 
reconstructing the earth’s history 
is 
high 
pressure. 
Her 
lab 
known as the X-cubed lab, which 
stands for “Exploring Extremes 
Experimentally.” The lab studies a 
little-known layer near the planet’s 
core, about 1,800 miles beneath the 
surface and 257 times deeper than the 
deepest place on the ocean floor. At 
that depth, the temperature is about 
forty times hotter than a Finnish 
sauna. The pressure there is about 
twenty times that required to make 
coal into a diamond.
If you were to dig a tunnel to 
the center of the Earth, you’d first 
go through a layer of rocks and dirt 
five times as deep as Mount Everest is 
high. Eventually you’d hit the mantle, 
a wide layer of magma about as solid 
as warm wax, the molten rock rising 
and falling slowly as it gains and 
loses heat. Some radioactive elements 
would probably ooze by you. Then, 
before reaching the layer of liquid iron 
that surrounds the Earth’s solid core, 
you’d pass through something else. 
“We think we know what’s 
down there, but it’s with your eyes 
closed and a blindfold on,” Lee said. 
Geologists just can’t figure out what 
goes on between the rocky mantle and 
the nickel-and-iron core—whether 
that layer of Earth is liquid or solid, 
whether it’s cooling down or heating 
up, and what exactly it’s made of. 
“There’s a big debate right now 
about how hot it is down there, with 
a discrepancy of about 2,000 degrees 
Kelvin. That’s a drastic uncertainty,” 
said Jung-Fu Lin, a mineral physicist 
at the University of Texas at Austin.
The layer between the mantle and 
core might be the source of heat that 
drives magma to the surface, causing 
volcanic eruptions. Ultimately, if 
researchers can understand this layer, 



**A Look Inside the Earth**
**Author: Rae Ellen Bichell**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
March 2012
then they might be able to reconstruct 
how deep and hot the ocean of molten 
rock that covered the earth’s surface 
during its infancy was once. “We want 
to know what the earth was like as a 
baby,” said Zhixue Du, a graduate 
student in Lee’s lab. 

Lately, Lee and Du have been 
squeezing and heating various metals 
and compounds that geophysicists 
know 
exist 
at 
the 
core-mantle 
boundary. “The melting point is above 
3,000 degrees Kelvin, so just getting 
these temperatures is hard,” said Lee. 
That’s more than hot enough to melt 
thermometers. As Du says, “You cook 
it.”

Right now, Du is researching 
magnesium oxide, one of the most 
abundant materials in the Earth’s 
mantle, and likely one of the 
compounds that was floating around 
in the scalding primordial mess 
billions of years ago. He wants to 
know just how hot and pressurized 
the material can get before it melts. 
“You can simulate when the earth was 
molten and see how the atoms are 
moving. That’s what we’re hoping to 
get,” said Du. 

Du takes microscopic specks 
of the compound, which look like 
particles of yellow Jell-O! under 
the microscope, and wedges them 
between two diamonds set in steel 
cylinders. Then he tightens the bolts 
on the cylinders until the slab of oxide 
is under extremely high pressure—
about 1.4 million times the ambient 
pressure in which we live and breathe. 
He fires lasers at the oxide to heat 
it. The experiment only lasts about a 
tenth of a second.

The planet’s interior is currently 
the subject of heated scientific debate 
all over the world. One group has set 
up seismometers at the South Pole 
to measure earthquake vibrations 
that might reveal clues about the 
Earth’s inner structure. Many, like 
those in Lee’s group, are trying to 
find out how certain materials behave 
at extraordinary temperatures and 
pressures. Some of the other methods 
used to create these conditions 
involve contraptions the size of a car 
and ten-meter long guns that create 
high-pressure shock waves with a tiny 
particle bullet.

“If you want to understand 
conditions billions of years ago, you 
can actually go to the lab and simulate 
them,” said Du. “We’re getting toward 
understanding the evolution of the 
world.”
–Rae Ellen Bichell


**Getting Warmer**
**Author: Yvette Borja**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

For 
Robert 
Mendelsohn, 
a climate change economist at 
the Yale School of Forestry and 
Environmental Studies, efficiency is 
key. I asked him about the School of 
Forestry’s community tree-planting 
initiatives, and while he acknowledged 
the value of green space in a city, 
he couldn’t help pointing out the 
project’s potential negative outcomes. 
He noted that leaves from the trees 
would fall on the streets, requiring 
more clean-up by the city and more 
taxpayer dollars.

Environmentalists consider 
Mendelsohn a menace. Mendelsohn 
considers himself a moderate who 
makes well-measured judgments. 
“You need to look at all sides of 
the equation,” he said. 

Mendelsohn is among the most 
respected researchers in his field, but 
his views on the economics of climate 
change are controversial. Though 
many climatologists predict that global 
temperature will increase by an average 
of two to four degrees Fahrenheit in 
the next several decades with serious 
consequences, 
Mendelsohn 
isn’t 
worried. He believes that people will 
be able to adapt their ways of life to 
warmer temperatures. The immediate 
economic drawbacks would outweigh 
the benefits of a large-scale effort 
to reduce climate change, he argues. 
Climate scientists have recently grown 
alarmist in their public statements, 
he said. “The actual science has not 
changed, but the rhetoric has gotten 
more shrill.”

Though his views are anathema to 
many environmentalists, Mendelsohn 
has always loved the outdoors. He 
often invites his doctoral students 
to barbecues, hikes on the trails in 
his neighborhood, and kayaking 
excursions 
around 
Thimble 
Islands in the Long Island Sound. A 
New York City native, Mendelsohn 
has now traded life in the city for life 
in the Connecticut countryside. He 
enjoys running through the wetlands 
and forests along the old Farmington 
Canal.

“He clearly cares about the 
environment.  My impression is that 
he just wants to make sure we’re being 
smart about how we’re managing 
it,” said David Keiser, a Forestry 
School doctoral student working with 
Mendelsohn. 

Mendelsohn first began studying 
environmental 
economics 
as 
a 
doctoral candidate at Yale in the late 
1970’s, just as climate change was first 
becoming a political issue. His current 
research focuses on the economics of 
climate change on a global scale. He 
and his colleagues have already created 
a model to predict the costs and the 
benefits of climate change in each 
country based on its geography. They 
are now working on more specific 
predictions for much smaller regions.

All climate change economists 
have to make decisions about how to 
weigh particular costs and benefits in 
their analyses. These weightings are 
called ‘discount rates’ in the world of 
climate change economics. One of the 
more difficult problems for climate 
change economists is determining to 
what extent our human desires and 
biases should affect their discount 
rates. For example, knowing that we 
tend to care more about our present 
welfare than we do about the future, 
Mendelsohn uses numbers that place 
less importance on the welfare of 
future generations.

But 
other 
climate 
change 
economists feel an ethical obligation 
to weigh all generations equally. 
“What do we owe to future 
generations? Should we ignore them 
because we are here and they are not?” 
asked Frank Ackerman, the director 
of the Climate Economics Group for 
the Stockholm Environment Institute. 
Ackerman is a prominent advocate 
for more aggressive policies to slow 
global warming. For him, the moral 
responsibility of policy makers and 
those who influence them is clear.

“I cannot stand the idea of being 
a part of the generation that only 
left a degraded planet for its future 
descendants,” he said.  
even argued that climate change will 
benefit agriculture in countries at 
higher latitudes because the growing 
season will be longer, an argument 
Ackerman does not accept.

“A rise in temperature will would 
also affect countries such as the 
United States and Canada, who will 
experience a rise in the number of 
super-hot days that would override 
any potential agricultural benefit of 
a longer growing season. The details 
matter,” said Ackerman. 

Mendelsohn disagrees and feels 
that many scientists pay too much 
attention to the potential downsides 
of climate change. “Exaggerating 
and accentuating the worst possible 
outcomes of climate change only 
delegitimizes the field as a whole,” he 
said.

It’s difficult to be entirely objective 
in climate change economics, however, 
especially considering what is at stake. 
Researchers like Mendelsohn, as well 
as policymakers and voters, have to 
think about every possible outcome, 
no matter how extreme. Their 
conclusions will ultimately depend on 
whose welfare they most value—that 
of future generations, that of people 
in developing countries, or their own.
–Yvette Borja


**Pressed Specimens**
**Author: Mitchell Murdock**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

While Horatio Fenn was studying 
at the Yale College Medical Institute 
in 1822, he created a book containing 
over seven hundred pressed plant 
specimens he found in and around 
New Haven. Fenn’s book is now in the 
Yale Herbarium at 21 Sachem Street, 
where the university’s plant specimens 
are kept. The pages are yellowing, 
but the specimens themselves look 
surprisingly well preserved. 

Patrick 
Sweeney, 
collections 
manager at the Yale Herbarium, is 
plucking pages from the spine of 
Fenn’s book and carefully turning 
them to prevent the pressed plants 
from cracking. He explains that 
the book contains only some of 
the 350,000 plant specimens in the 
herbarium. Sweeney replaces Fenn’s 
book in a covered box, which he 
then places in a metal cupboard on 
the side of the room. There are rows 
and rows of these metal cupboards—
the Yale Herbarium looks more like 
a bank vault than a museum. There 
is a surgical feel to the room—its 
humidity and temperature levels are 
closely regulated and recorded.

In the years since Fenn assembled 
his book, botanists have improved the 
ways they prepare plant pressings. 
They freeze specimens at -20 degrees 
Celsius for a week before storage to 
kill insects and use archival-quality 
papers and glues that won’t easily 
deteriorate or give off harmful gases.

The 
next 
advancement 
is 
digitization. Botanists are currently 
engaged in the colossal task of 
preserving 
fragile, 
sometimes 
centuries-old leaves like Fenn’s in 
online databases where scientists 
worldwide can access and analyze 
them. They take photographs of a 
specimen and store them with its 
taxonomic information and other 
data such as the time and location it 
was collected. Digitization saves time 
for plant scientists and helps them 
efficiently analyze differences over 
time in traits such as leaf size, the 
presence of glands on leaves, and 
flowering time.

“With a high resolution image of 
a specimen, I don’t have to go to the 
herbarium,” said Michael Donoghue, 
the herbarium’s curator.

Although 
herbariums 
have 
existed 
since 
mid-sixteenth 
century, experts estimate that at least 
seventy thousand plant species have 
yet to be named. Digital herbariums 
will allow researchers to identify 
these new species more efficiently, 
study plant evolution, and strengthen 
relationships among botanists in 
different countries.

The Yale Herbarium recently 
finished 
digitizing 
Peabody 
Museum’s collection of Connecticut 
plant specimens. From 2008 to 2011, 
nearly fifty thousand were catalogued. 
Some of the specimens are more than 
two hundred years old.

Outside the herbarium is the 
Herb Scan, which resembles a washing 
machine with an inverted scanner on 
top of it. This machine takes high-
resolution pictures of pressed plant 
specimens with speed and uniformity. 
A grant from the Andrew Mellon 
Foundation’s Global Plants Initiative, 
the world’s largest coordinated effort 
to digitize plant type specimens and 
scholarly resources from herbaria, 
paid for it.

Melissa 
Tulig, 
an 
associate 
director at the New York Botanical 
Garden, called the Global Plants 
Initiative a success because of the 
valuable funding it provided. “We 
needed that start-up,” she said.

A similar project, the National 
Science 
Foundation’s 
Advancing 
Digitization of Biological Collection, 
began in 2011 and aims to create 
digital records of the nearly one 
billion plant specimens in American 
museums within ten years. Together 
these projects preserve our world’s 
wealth of natural resources and create 
a global network of information for 
plant scientists.
–Mitchell Murdock


**Cheeseboy and the Golden Sandwiches**
**Author: Clare Randt**
**Page number(s): 9**

The Connecticut Post Mall in 
Milford is not a remarkable place. It 
is not beautiful. It is grey and flat and 
illumined by cold fluorescent lights. I 
stepped off an escalator, crossed that 
sorriest of American public spaces—
the food court—and approached the 
Cheeseboy counter. When a beaming 
young employee appeared and said, 
with real enthusiasm, “Have you ever 
been here before?” I suddenly felt 
everything was going to be all right.

He shepherded me through my 
order—American cheese on Italian 
bread with tomato and bacon—rolled 
the bread across some nifty cylinders 
covered in melted butter, piled on the 
ingredients, and stuffed the result in 
an industrial-strength panini press. A 
golden-brown sandwich emerged not 
two minutes later. It was, needless to 
say, delicious. Somehow, there in the 
Connecticut Post Mall, I had found 
a remarkable restaurant, a beautiful 
grilled cheese sandwich, and evidence 
of good old Yankee ingenuity.

Cheeseboy is a young and 
rapidly expanding company that 
operates “quick-service restaurants” 
specializing in grilled cheese. It is 
also the nickname of the company’s 
cheese-crazy founder and president, 
Michael Inwald SOM ’10. 
“The 
goal 
to 
be 
preeminent grilled cheese franchise 
concept in this country,” Inwald 
explained. He described himself 
as a serial entrepreneur. “I have 
entrepreneurship in my bones to the 
core,” he said. He has also been, as 
he puts it, “obsessed with cheese” 
his whole life, and claims to have 
lived on grilled cheese sandwiches 
through college and beyond, refining 
his preparation technique all the while. 
Inwald’s Cheeseboy has channeled his 
passions for entrepreneurship and 
cheese toward a single cause, and it 
has placed him on the short list of 
Yale entrepreneurs who have launched 
successful startups while still enrolled 
as students.

Inwald first arrived at the 
Cheeseboy concept all the way back 
in 2004, when friends encouraged 
him to market his grilled cheese, but 
he shelved the idea in order to go 
to business school. And from his 
undergrad years at Cornell— “a liberal 
arts education creates a well-rounded 
base from which you can grow”—to 
the stressful experience of launching 
a small production company right out 
of college, to the years he spent in 
retail and advertising—he insists that 
every stage of his meandering journey 
has helped prepare him to launch and 
run a successful company. 

Inwald sees his passion and the 
uniqueness of his concept at the core 
of Cheeseboy’s success. “I’m one 
of the few entrepreneurs who had 
a passion for something that hadn’t 
been truly explored,” he said. He’s 
just as quick, though, to point out 
the importance of the Yale resources 
he drew on. “I was very different 
from many MBA classmates, set 
on entrepreneurship from the day I 
started at SOM.” He said that focus 
allowed him to make better use than 
his classmates of what the School had 
to offer. “Take basic accounting,” he 



**Title:  The New Journal**
**Author: Alec Joyner**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10
The New Journal
said. Most MBA candidates “are not 
going to use accounting in their real-
world profession. I was able to say, 
‘I’m going to need to know how to 
balance my books.’ ” 
In the summer of 2009, Inwald 
put twenty thousand dollars of his 
own money into testing his fast-food 
grilled cheese concept at county fairs. 
The enthusiastic responses convinced 
investors, and his first restaurant, then 
called Grilled Cheese to Go, opened 
that November—the same one I 
visited in the Connecticut Post Mall. 
He has since changed his company’s 
name to the catchier Cheeseboy, and 
has added six more locations across 
southern New England and New 
York.

The 
School 
of 
Management 
is 
not 
the 
only 
Yale 
institution 
that 
supported Inwald in his self-
directed business endeavors. 
In 2009, while most of his 
first-year 
MBA 
classmates 
went looking for summer 
internships and jobs, he went 
looking 
for 
entrepreneurial 
opportunities. He didn’t think 
Yale had a strong or diverse 
entrepreneurial culture, but he 
did find the recently established 
Yale Entrepreneurial Institute, which 
took him on as a fellow, introduced 
him to investors, and helped him to 
plan the county fair tests.

Inwald said he is indebted to 
YEI. But according to James Boyle, 
the institute’s director, Inwald also 
brought about a “sea change” for 
the institute, which had previously 
focused on technological innovation. 
“Cheeseboy,” Boyle said, “was the 
first venture that we ran across in an 
area that no one on the staff knew 
anything about.” Inwald’s bread and 
butter wasn’t hardware or software. It 
was bread and butter.

YEI was created in 2007 as a 
subordinate branch of the Yale Office 
of Cooperative Research in order 
to do for students what OCR was 
already doing for faculty: “technology 
transfer” from academic research to 
patentable and marketable products 
and services. Inwald, Boyle said, 
“made us realize that we had to expand 
our thinking toward students who had 
innovative ideas for which there might 
be no intellectual property protection, 
based upon the strength of how they 
executed the idea.” Since Inwald’s 
involvement at YEI, the institute has 
offered opportunities to similarly 
offbeat would-be start-ups.

While Inwald is happy to know 
that he has opened doors to younger 
Yale entrepreneurs, he does not think 
entrepreneurship is right for everyone. 
said. “When it came time to talk to 
professional investors and they asked 
questions about the business model, 
Michael could really blow them away.” 
Boyle says Inwald is also exceptional 
in that he wants to remain the sole 
proprietor of Cheeseboy. “We think 
that’s way too much work for one 
student to take on.”

As 
Cheeseboy 
has 
grown, 
Inwald has worked hard to shape the 
institutional identity of the company 
according to his values. He visits all 
of the seven Cheeseboy locations 
at least once a month, he said, and 
the young man who served me in 
Milford confirmed that Inwald jumps 
in alongside his employees, making 
sandwiches or taking out the trash. 
Cheeseboy is growing, and 
will soon enter the very different 
business of franchising new 
locations instead of operating 
them directly, but Inwald insists 
that it will “grow intelligently.” 
It’s hard to imagine that this 
company that bears its founder’s 
nickname, even as its employee 
count crosses into the hundreds, 
will lose either his personal 
warmth or his business savvy.

In a few weeks, that original 
Milford Cheeseboy will close, to 
be replaced by a new one in a nearby 
service plaza on I-95. The young guy 
who made my sandwich told me he 
and his colleagues would move to the 
new location.

Maybe I’ll visit him, brave 
another tired American nowhere for 
the goo and crunch and warmth of a 
high-quality grilled cheese sandwich. 
At the very least, as I drive down 
I-95, I’ll think of Inwald, and of 
the time, work, and sheer willpower 
entrepreneurship 
requires. 
Who 
knew? It takes a whole lot to make it 
in America, even if America is one big 
food court.
–Alec Joyner


“I don’t think anyone should just get 
into entrepreneurship for the sake 
of getting into entrepreneurship,” 
Inwald said. “This is not an easy task. 
Entrepreneurship is the antithesis of 
stability.” A true entrepreneur, in his 
view, would never complain about 
time commitment: such a person 
would find a way to learn the necessary 
skills, either through formal education 
or through professional experience.

Boyle said that Inwald was 
unusually ready to meet the challenges 
of entrepreneurship. “He had no 
background in fast food, real estate, 
franchising, but Michael understood 
at a very fine detail the costs of 
all his inputs and outputs,” Boyle 
Susannah Shattuck



**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 11**

11
March 2012
On July 6, Campus Progress named The New Journal Best Overall Publication 
among the forty-nine college newspapers, online magazines, and other 
publications it supports through grant funding. 
Campus Progress engages students in national campaigns 
on critical issues, from global warming to civil rights, 
student debt to academic freedom. 
Visit CampusProgress.org/issues to learn more.
The New Journal thanks Campus Progress for its generous 
support.



**Author: Brianne Bowen**
**Page number(s): 12**

12
              PROFILE
Brianne Bowen
Goldie Stands Over Bull with her Bible in her lap. Her 
annaul practice of an extended fast is a product of the 
religious tradition in which she was raised.



**Title: NOT HUNGRY**
**Author: Ben Mueller**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Goldie Stands Over Bull does not like doughnuts. There were no Dunkin’ Donuts on the Crow Reservation where she grew up near Billings, Montana, and her move to New Haven didn’t instill in her any new cravings. “They’re dry. I just don’t go for them,” she said. And yet for one hour on January 13, she could not get them out of her head. “I don’t even eat doughnuts!” she said. “It was my central thought for like an hour.”

Goldie had been fasting. From January 8 to January 27, while her friends shopped new courses, trudged through the snow, and returned to old habits, Goldie, a junior Biology major, did not eat. 

“It’s a time when you slow down and stop and focus on your relationship with God,” Goldie explained. “It heightens your spiritual senses. You’re more sensitive to God’s voice and what he’s saying.”

Though Goldie had hoped to make it all the way through a biblically inspired twenty-one-day fast for the first time since she began fasting annually four years ago, she succumbed to her bodily needs on three occasions. Dehydrated and nauseous from a lapse in her usual fluid intake, she ate pretzels and Goldfish on January 16. Two days later she had a bowl of oatmeal, and on January 20 she ate a few bites of Indian food. She also stopped the fast one day early, sharing her parents’ concern that she was losing weight.

Otherwise Goldie subsisted on water, Welch’s grape juice, and apple juice for twenty days.

“The hunger goes away after the second or third day,” she said eight days into her fast. She followed tips on IHOP’s website (that’d be the International House of Prayer, not International House of Pancakes) on how to stay healthy and comfortable during the fast, such as avoiding artificially sugary drinks. Goldie had the support of her family, who also completed the fast, and a few classmates who attend New Haven’s non-denominational Gateway Christian Fellowship with Goldie and undertook partial fasts. She also consulted daily video blog posts from Jentezen Franklin, a megachurch pastor who shuttles between congregations in Georgia and California.  A section about fasting on his Web site, branded “Fast 2012: Reclaim Your Edge,” imitates Gillette razor advertisements and promises, “Fasting can recharge you!”

Goldie knows that many people “think this is sort of crazy.” I know people who fast for Yom Kippur, yet I wondered how Goldie could skip sixty consecutive meals. When she told people about her fast, they were often concerned about her health.

But Goldie said that she had trouble sleeping, and some nights she would be up until 5 a.m. because “my mind didn’t shut off.” Yet she betrayed few signs of fatigue and appeared engaged and attentive weeks into her fast. She walked briskly into the Yale Bookstore to meet me one cool afternoon in heavy cowboy boots and a leather jacket, with red and white Beats by Dr. Dre headphones piping Christian music into her ears. The challenge of a fast is as emotional and spiritual as it is physical, Goldie explained. 

Goldie didn’t always have the relationship with God she has now, but he has always been part of her life.  She was born on a Friday and in church by Sunday, as she put it.

She struggled to describe the hardship that people face on her Crow reservation. Only 30 percent of adults on the reservation have high school diplomas, and she returns home now to find many of her middle school friends pregnant with their second or third child.  The unemployment rate was 46.5 percent in 2005, according to the U.S. Bureau of Indian Affairs, and median household income is $27,044.  Alcoholism and drug abuse are rampant.Goldie believes that no amount of federal aid can overcome the hopelessness that haunts the reservation.  “People are defeated.  They’re in survival mode – every man for himself,” Goldie said. “It’s hard for people.  Where is God if I can’t feed my family?  But you have to trust Him fully.”

Goldie’s family was different from other families on her Crow reservation from the beginning. Her grandmother and grandfather are pastors of a church on the reservation. Her dad left the reservation to pursue a degree in geology in Denver, where Goldie lived until she was nine. He then took his wife, Goldie, and Goldie’s older brother with him as his job at an oil company moved, first to Houston and then to Scotland.

After this itinerant childhood, Goldie won a scholarship to St. Paul’s School in New Hampshire, where she found herself surrounded by “those popped up Polo shirts.” She was the only Native American girl there and poorer than many of her classmates. She was also the only Christian with the “charismatic, Pentecostal upbringing” that was typical on the reservation. She listened to pastor and televangelist Joel Osteen’s sermons online every Sunday to find a religious experience that was meaningful to her.

Her teenage anxieties were amplified. Goldie was struggling with “the typical things we teen girls go through,” “I was not the typical blond, perky, athletic all around lovely girl,” Goldie said.  She had brown hair, brown eyes and was “cynical and introverted.”

Ashamed of who she was – quiet, Native American, and Christian—Goldie gossiped when her friends gossiped, badmouthed classmates when that was in fashion, and even found herself at Toad’s on a few occasions once she arrived at Yale. Goldie cringed through all of it, but she wanted badly to be the person her friends wanted to see.

It didn’t work. “I felt depressed, I felt lost. Despite doing all this stuff I didn’t feel like I belonged anywhere.” Though Goldie kept living out of the same suitcase that had followed her from Colorado to Montana to New Hampshire and then to Yale, she returned home. “I had to go out into the world to realize what I already had,” Goldie said.

What she already had was a God who knew her before she was in the womb, who loved her no matter what. Fasting helped Goldie regain her faith that God, who had brought her from Montana to St. Paul’s and from St. Paul’s to Yale, hadn’t made a mistake.

Fasting demands that a person break her attachment to everyday physical needs, and that mental discipline does not come easily. “It’s the cravings that get you,” Goldie explained. Cravings—for French fries, for cookies, for the gratification that comes as easily as the swipe of a meal card on most days—begin as hunger and quickly become hour-long bouts with apparitions of glazed doughnuts, as Goldie found. The magic of a fast lies in confronting those cravings and stepping away from bodily desires. 
I’noli Hall, a junior at Yale and a Christian who abstained from dinner for twenty-one days to start the new year, recounted a conversation he had with Goldie about his hunger.

It was late in the afternoon. “I told her, ‘By this time of day I’m hungry and low on energy.’ And Goldie’s response was, “Oh, that’s awesome!” He paused to let the paradox sink in. “If you take that out of context, it sounds weird. When you’re fasting, physically it feels bad. But after you’re in it, you begin to develop that independence from food and independence from your flesh and suddenly you’re walking in the spirit. You feel stronger, you feel more sensitive to God. It’s a weird kind of good.”

Goldie describes this process of spiritual renewal in Christian terms, but it’s a principle that holds equal appeal to the Buddhist monk on a vow of silence or the backpacker who vanishes into the wilderness.

By learning to abandon her physical desires, Goldie becomes less constrained by her emotions. “You might be going through a personal or emotional issue or trauma. Around those times you let go of those things because you realize they don’t really have a hold of you,” she said. “You can move on and be free from them.”

The fast confines Goldie’s focus to spiritual questions. “I put pretty much everything on hold,” Goldie said. “I don’t go to the dining hall, basically all my time is spent in prayer and reading the Bible. You’re clearing everything away. All you’re thinking about is God.”

Goldie’s focus during her fast this year is on teaching herself to pray for others.  “I’m very shy,” Goldie said. Before, she was too modest to include other people in her prayers, but now, she wants to bring the Christian spirit that has transformed her life to those around her in Montana and at Yale. Both places, she believes, need it. Her aim isn’t to condemn sin, but to soothe pain.

“Look around,” Goldie says. On this bustling January afternoon Yale’s campus is tense with anxiety over choosing classes. The Yale Bookstore Café serves as a thirty-second refueling station for a steady line of students strung tighter than the French braid that holds in place Goldie’s long black hair.

“You see emotional bondage here, mental disorders, the stress,” Goldie said. “There’s a greater qualify of life that’s out there that people are unaware of.” 

On January 27, Goldie unceremoniously stepped back into the world of the caloric with a pizza bagel warmed in the microwave of her Swing Space dormitory. She was alone and she was hungry and she dug her teeth into a bite-sized grease and cheese-stained bagel that she knew wouldn’t satisfy her craving for an earthly, pastry paradise.

Fasting helped Goldie regain her faith that God, who had brought her from Montana to St. Paul’s and from St. Paul’s to Yale, hadn’t made a mistake.



**Title: PILLOW TALK**
**Author: Nicholas Geiser**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The recent debate over Sex Week stands 
in for the discussion no one’s having 
about educating—and sleeping with—the 
Facebook generation.  


**Title: CRITICAL ANGLE**
**Author: Katharine Konietzko**
**Page number(s): 17-19**

I
n the debate about sexual culture 
at Yale, everyone agrees that 
“intolerance,” 
“rape 
culture,” 
and “objectification” are bad, while 
“intimacy,” “respect,” and “love” 
are good. Both sides also agree that 
something is wrong with their school’s 
sexual culture here. So the indignant, 
supercilious tone of editorial on both 
sides isn’t a result of a difference in 
goals, but of a disagreement about 
what the problem is.

After news of the Department 
of Education’s Title IX investigation 
broke last spring, President Levin 
hosted a series of student dinner 
discussions. Eduardo Andino ’13 
attended one of them. As he described 
it to me, the discussion lacked a center 
because despite talk of “the problem” 
and various remedies—more training, 
more outreach, more publicity—“no 
one ever said what the problem was.” 
Andino and a few other students 
would later form Undergraduates 
for a Better Yale College. According 
to Better Yale, the “problem” is 
that sexual norms of intimacy and 
commitment have given way to norms 
of hedonism and objectification. This 
fall, Better Yale petitioned the school 
to bar the organizers of Sex Week 
from using its classrooms.

Courtney 
Peters 
’12 
is 
an 
executive director of Sex Week 2012. 
She sees the problem as a lack of 
creative imagination about sexuality. 

The starting point of Sex Week’s 
project is to construct new, positive 
models for sex. Making sure sex is safe 
and consensual is only half the task. 
Sex should be glorious and, as Peters 
puts it, “prismatic”—a word that 
brings to mind sex accompanied by 
choirs of cherubs wrapped in colorful 
garments.

Thirty-five 
years 
ago, 
Ann 
Olivarius and four other plaintiffs 
brought the first Title IX suit against 
a major university in Alexander v. Yale. 
She told the story during her Sex Week 
keynote speech, a story she’s told 
before in the pages of this magazine. 
In 1977, Olivarius had presented 
a series of anonymous narratives 
documenting sexual harassment by 
professors and fellow students to 
the Yale Corporation. Her group 
recommended the formation of a 
central grievance board to adjudicate 
complaints of sexual harassment. In 
response, Yale accused Olivarius of 
libeling a professor of music and band 
director, Keith Brion, named in the 
complaint. Yale further stonewalled 
when Brion began to stalk Olivarius. 
She 
received 
threatening 
mail 
including death threats, a knife, and 
human excrement. 

At the time, Olivarius told the Sex 
Week audience, it seemed like merely 
instituting a reporting mechanism 
would be enough. But a deeper 
problem lay with attitudes liable to 
result in sexual misconduct—attitudes 
of neglect or willful ignorance of 
women’s sexual needs and desires. 
An environment where partners can 
articulate and respect another’s wishes 
is the best way to prevent sexual 
misconduct. According to Olivarius, 
sexual education at Yale today is the 
natural conclusion of the argument 
that everyone should be protected 
from sexual abuse of all kinds.

One returning presenter from the 
last Sex Week in 2010 was Babeland, 
the New York-based sex boutique 
chain. Of all the material aired at Sex 
Week 2010, Babeland’s presentation 
on oral sex technique epitomized 
the thought that “education and 
excitement are not exclusive,” as Paul 
Holmes ’13 and Connie Cho ’13, 
two of Sex Week’s other executive 
directors, wrote in an editorial in the 
News.

This year, Babeland’s presenters 
began with a set of ground rules, a kind 
of Bill of Rights, for female sexuality. 
“Love yourself first” and “Ask for 
what you want” came in high on the 
list. Here was Ann Olivarius’ thesis 
made concrete. If you really want 
to stop abusive sexual practices, you 
have to teach people how to demand 
good sex. Maxims like “Love yourself 
first” may sound like the grounds for 
shallow relationships. But in light of a 
history of denying or dismissing the 
particular needs of women, “Love 
yourself first” is a revolutionary idea. 
It means the conquest of shame, or 
fear. It means that each of us, and no 
one else, is the ultimate arbiter of her 
sexuality.

At Sex Week’s core lies the 
thought that sex can be transformed 
into a liberating, empowering force 
for personal autonomy. Pleasure and 
desire can be reconciled with intimacy 
and commitment. Sex, in this narrative, 
is a fundamental feature of our 
character. Yale’s mission, moreover, 
to educate and lead students “in every 
sphere of human activity” creates a 
need for institutions like Sex Week. 




**Sex and Sensibilities on Campus**
**Author: Nicholas Geiser**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
19
March 2012
sexuality. Sexuality masters us. The 
only remedies are conventions that 
restrain our sexuality—monogamy 
and marriage, to name two. Such 
institutions don’t constrain us, rather, 
they form a new version of human 
freedom—the freedom from our 
brutish desires. That’s why there are 
two rings at the bottom of posters for 
Better Yale’s “True Love Week.” 
Better Yale puts forward an 
aspirational, almost transcendental 
vision of sexuality, in which sex is 
sublimated into a kind of platonic 
ideal. Better Yale’s organizers will freely 
admit it’s an unlikely and impracticable 
vision. Sex Week, on the other hand, 
starts from the view that sex is simply 
a fact of human nature. “Sex simply 
is,” as Peters phrases it. And another 
fact Sex Week emphasizes is that 1 in 4 
women will become victims of sexual 
assualt in their collegiate career.


Too many victims have suffered 
from unsupportive institutions and 
an indifferent campus culture for me 
to take seriously Better Yale’s obvious 
longing for “simpler” times. Still, 
Better Yale’s members make one very 
important point.

For every student who undertakes 
the sincere and earnest reflection 
incumbent upon those who enjoy 
the openness of our current sexual 
climate, there will be someone else 
who does not. Alex Chituc made this 
point in the News in a column under 
the headline “Yalies for Minding 
Your Own Business.” In a campus 
of five thousand undergraduates, he 
argued, there are bound to be “a few 
assholes.” Some will viciously exploit a 
permissive sexual climate, just because 
they can. 

In the last thirty years, the 
percentage of students who exhibit 
some narcissistic traits has doubled, 
according to a survey of sixteen 
thousand undergraduates by a San 
Diego State University psychology 
research team. The traits included 
vanity, a heightened desire for attention, 
and a lack of empathy. A group of 
University of Michigan researchers 
found that empathy among college 
students had declined by 40 percent 
since 1980, as determined by how 
likely study participants were to agree 
with “I sometimes try to understand 
my friends better by imagining how 
things look from their perspective” 
and similar statements.


At the heart of Better Yale’s 
worldview is the pessimistic thought 
that there’s something fundamentally 
narcissistic about sex. According to 
Bijan Aboutorabi ’13, one of Better 
Yale’s co-founders, “With the idea of 
hookup culture that we’re all just free-
floating sexual agents, meeting briefly, 
then moving on, it’s almost inevitable 
that the desire for private satisfaction 
will overcome respect for the sexual 
autonomy of others.” Emphasizing 
desire and personal satisfaction will 
not bring autonomy and meaning to 
our lives, claims Better Yale. Rather, it 
will invite sexual violence.

I put this question to Holmes, 
who said that narcissism is “a 
symptom of our general inability to 
communicate.” It is “a bar to genuine 
reflection,” he added.

After all, there’s more to sexual 
health than self-love. Discussing and 
understanding your own desires can 
help you to communicate with your 
sexual partners, and it can give you the 
strength to demand respect. However, 
as students and administrators, we 
must also condemn forcefully those 
students who violate others. Knowing 
what you want is important. Knowing 
what we all want—knowing how to 
protect sexual safety on campus—is 
also important, and requires a firmer 
standard beyond our own desires.

And for that, we have to talk 
about sex.



**Through the Spectrum**
**Author: Miriam Lauter**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

20
The New Journal
I
t is Valentine’s Day in Jack’s first-
grade class. A few at a time, his 
classmates get up to hand out 
their valentines, effortlessly matching 
names with the faces of their 
classmates until, empty-handed, they 
dart back to their seats. Jack glances 
down at the name on the top of his 
stack and wanders the maze of desks, 
staring intently, not at the children’s 
faces, but at the brown paper bags on 
each desk.


21
“He’d look at the kid; then he’d 
look at the bag to see the name. He 
didn’t know, ‘Oh that kid who’s been 
sitting at that desk for six months—I 
know who that is,’ ” recalled Jack’s 
mother, Jean Winegardner, who was 
helping out in his Bethesda, Maryland 
public school that day. 

Once home, Jean took each of 
the valentines Jack’s classmates had 
given him and asked him to describe 
the child who made it. He couldn’t. 
Jack had been in class with the same 
children 
since 
kindergarten 
and 
was quick to correct his mother’s 
pronunciation of the names, but could 
not connect any name to a single detail 
about any of his classmates. 

Jack has a lot of trouble with 
social interaction, clings to strict 
routines (for a long time he only ate 
foods that were brown, for example), 
and had trouble learning to speak 
when he was younger. Since the age 
of five he has had a diagnosis on the 
spectrum of autistic disorders. But in 
a little more than a year, his specific 
diagnosis, Pervasive Developmental 
Disorder Not Otherwise Specified 
(PDD-NOS), will not exist. Neither 
will the related and better-known 
diagnosis of Asperger’s Syndrome.  

A group of psychiatrists are 
working on radical changes to the 
words that define the diagnoses that 
make up Autism Spectrum Disorder. 
The changes at first might seem 
esoteric, affecting just a few pages in a 
dense volume known as the Diagnostic 
and Statistical Manual of Mental 
Disorders, or DSM. But for autism, 
words are key. The disorder cannot be 
diagnosed by a blood test or a brain 
scan. Change the DSM definition, 
which is the authoritative guide to the 
diagnosis of mental disorders, and 
you change who is considered to have 
the condition. 

The impending changes may 
make the definition significantly 
more stringent. To those who believe 
doctors have created an “autism 
epidemic” by handing out too many 
diagnoses to children with marginal 
impairments, the shift represents an 
opportunity to bring order to an out-
of-control situation. To advocates for 
autistic children and their families, 
the proposals threaten to deprive 
hundreds of thousands of children 
and adults of badly needed services 
and a label that has become central to 
their identities. 

The debate, which until recently 
was largely confined to academic 
circles, has attracted increasing public 
attention with the release of new data 
by two Yale experts on autism. During 
a presentation at the conference of 
the Icelandic Medical Association 
in January, Fred Volkmar and James 
McPartland announced that their 
study showed that more than half 
of children with normal or high IQs 
who are currently diagnosed with 
autism spectrum disorders no longer 
would qualify under the proposed 
new definitions. The study itself is 
currently under review by the Journal 
of the American Academy of Child 
and Adolescent Psychiatry, and is 
embargoed until publication in April.

“The sad thing is for many more 
able kids, because you see how smart 
they are, you don’t see how socially 
impaired they are,” said Volkmar, 
chief of child psychiatry at Yale-
New Haven Children’s Hospital and 
chairman of the Yale Child Study 
Center. 

“One might argue, if you have 
a system that’s working pretty well, 
why mess with it?” Volkmar asked. 
Eighteen years ago, Volkmar headed 
the committee that last rewrote the 
definition of autism when the current 
version of the DSM, the DSM-IV, 
was written. The main goal then, he 
said, was to broaden the spectrum 
so that individuals with higher IQs 
could receive the benefits of having a 
diagnosis. 

He continues to see the existing 
definitions as a significant success. 
In a recent interview, he leaned back 
in his chair and spread his long arms 
to indicate the inclusiveness of the 
spectrum his committee designed 
eighteen years ago, then folded them 
over his rotund belly. “It would be 
nice to be able to get help to people 
who want it,” he said.

Michael John Carley, for one, 
believes cutting anyone off the autism 
spectrum entirely would be a tragedy. 
Carley is the head of the Global 
and Regional Asperger’s Syndrome 
Partnership, or GRASP, which is the 
largest organization of adults with 
autistic disorders. He was diagnosed 
with Asperger’s as an adult just a 
week after his son was diagnosed 
with autism. His own experiences 
and those of the other members of 
his organization have made Carley 
keenly aware of the sense of identity 
a diagnosis brings, and the large, 
supportive communities it can form. 
He said in November that he had been 
reassured about the proposed new 
standards. “Every expert has told me, 
don’t worry about it, it’s not going to 
happen,” he said then.

Several days after Volkmar and 
McPartland presented their study 
in Iceland, though, Carley indicated 
concern. “We’re a little surprised by 
this turn. I don’t think anybody told 
me an untruth necessarily, but clearly 
something inside that room has 
changed,” he said. “We couldn’t more 
strongly disagree,” he added.

“The intention of the committee 
was not to change the rate of autism 
spectrum disorders, but rather to make 
the criteria better match up to what 
clinicians actually do,” said Catherine 
Lord, a member of the American 
Psychiatric Association committee 
that is revising the criteria for the new 
version of the manual, which will 
be called the DSM-5. She feels that 
while “the DSM-IV criteria were a real 
improvement,” they left too much up 
to the arbitrary judgment of clinicians. 
The new criteria are an attempt to 



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
22
The New Journal
more thoroughly describe the patterns 
of symptoms and behavior that 
doctors are observing in children and 
adults with autism. 

Lord also questions the ethics 
of Volkmar’s decision to release 
information from an embargoed 
article, calling the amount of publicity 
it has received “appalling.” When 
scientific articles are under embargo 
by a journal, the authors 
are expected not to discuss 
the study until it has been 
reviewed and printed.

According 
to 
McPartland, he did not find 
out that their article had been 
accepted by the journal until 
the day Volkmar gave his talk 
in Iceland, so the embargo may 
not have gone into effect until 
after Volkmar’s presentation. 
In any case, the embargo rule 
most scientific journals follow 
allows authors to discuss 
abstracts of upcoming papers 
at scientific conferences, as 
Volkmar did. While authors 
are not supposed to court 
media attention, they are not 
penalized for ensuing news 
coverage; coverage which, in 
this case, has put the DSM-
5 committee in an awkward 
position. The members of the 
committee feel the need to defend the 
criteria they are developing. Because 
the DSM-5 committee cannot yet read 
the Yale researchers’ paper, however, 
they cannot assess the validity of the 
results. “It is impossible to talk about 
it until we’ve seen it, which we’ve not,” 
Lord said when asked about Volkmar’s 
and McPartland’s research. 

Lined up on a shelf, the previous 
editions 
of 
the 
DSM, 
“Shrink’s Bible,” form a rainbow—
each paperback spine adds a new 
color, a new chapter in psychiatric 
history and a shift in the perception 
and diagnosis of autism. Although the 
disorder was first described in 1943 
by a psychiatrist named Leo Kanner, 
the first two editions of the DSM 
did not classify it as a distinct illness. 
Instead, autism was mistakenly said to 
be a rare subset of schizophrenia that 
came on in early childhood in reaction 
to a cold, disconnected “refrigerator” 
mother. In those days, a child’s 
diagnosis was a shameful secret to be 
kept from family and friends. It was 
considered common knowledge that 
such children could not be taught, and 
they were shipped off to institutions, 
usually for life.

Then, in 1980, the APA released 
the lime-green DSM-III. Inside was a 
new section called “Infantile Autism.” 
For the first time, autism had its own 
definition and a clear statement of its 
characteristic symptoms. Researchers 
began to notice that autism ran 
in 
families, 
across 
generations, 
suggesting that genes might play a 
role in determining who developed it. 
They also realized that a larger-than-
normal percentage of autistic children 
suffered from seizures, indicating that 
the disease was rooted in the biology 
of the brain, not in bad parenting. 
Autism as defined by the DSM-
III was severely debilitating. Most 
individuals who received the diagnosis 
had IQs below 70, in the intellectually 
disabled range. Few learned to talk or 
live independently. The individuals 
who qualified as autistic under this 
definition made little eye 
contact and often spent hours 
alone, rocking back and forth 
in corners, hands flapping 
rhythmically by their sides. By 
the early 1990s, it had become 
clear 
that 
psychologists 
diagnosing autism in children 
were leaving out a large 
group of kids like Jack who 
have normal and even high 
IQs, who are often talkative 
and talented, but who lag 
behind their peers socially. 
These children seem to lack 
an understanding of social 
rules, fail to form friendships, 
and often cannot carry on 
conversations. 
When 
they 
do join conversations, they 
often talk incessantly about 
one apparently random topic, 
such as vacuum cleaners 
or aqueducts. While these 
people are better equipped to 
function in day-to-day life than their 
more severely affected peers, they 
often have great difficulty in school, 
face horrific bullying, and lack the 
social tact to hold down jobs. 
Finding ways to help those 
people motivated Volkmar and his 
colleagues as they revised the DSM-
III definition. In addition to covering 
children, the DSM-IV also changed 
the lives of many adults who had 
never been diagnosed as they’d grown 
up with the narrower criteria of the 
previous DSM.
“Everything in life has been 
a struggle for me,” said John, who 
learned only four years ago, at 44, that 
To advocates for autistic 
children and their 
families, the proposals 
threaten to deprive 
hundreds of thousands 
of children and adults of 
badly needed services 
and a label that has 
become central to their 
identities.


--- Page 23 ---

23
March 2012
he has an Autism Spectrum Disorder. 
John has a steady job as a lineman for 
Connecticut Light and Power, a wife, 
and a home, but getting there has 
been tough. He was held back in the 
first and tenth grades and eventually 
dropped out of high school. He finally 
earned his high school diploma at the 
age of 23. John’s peers teased him 
and called him names at school and 
his alcoholic father did the same at 
home. Age has done little to reduce 
the number of taunts thrown at him. 
“One guy said to another guy in 
a conversation in a room, he said ‘Uh, 
I think John is functionally retarded,’ 
” said John, recalling a recent incident 
with his co-workers. “The other guy 
said, ‘Well, what do you mean, you 
think he’s an idiot savant?’ And the 
other guy says, ‘No, he can’t be an 
idiot savant, he’s not good at anything, 
he’s just an idiot.’ ”

Under the DSM-III, John, who 
asked that his last name not be used 
for fear of repercussions at work, 
was too smart, too verbal, and too 
functional to be considered autistic. 
As a consequence, John never received 
help in school. No one ever took the 
time to try to teach him the social 
skills he lacked. The DSM-III left him, 
and many others, out in the cold. 
“If you’re not sure what you 
have, how do you know to handle 
life?” John asked.

The DSM-IV, with its broadened 
definition of autism, gave John and 
others like him a name for their 
problems. That broader definition 
came too late to help John in school 
but has changed his life since then, he 
said.
“If I run into a situation either 
at work or at home and it’s a rough 
course I’m going through,” said 
John, “I can analyze it and think to 
myself, ‘Well, wait a minute, that’s the 
Asperger’s.’ ”

But the breadth that allowed the 
DSM-IV diagnoses to help people 
such as Jack and John has led to a large 
increase in the number of diagnoses. 
Since the publication of the DSM-IV 
in 1994, autism and related disorders 
have gone from being relatively rare, 
around one in five thousand children 
at the time of DSM-IV’s release, to 
alarmingly common. The most recent 
studies put the prevalence at around 1 
in 110 children.

Volkmar 
believes 
increase in the rate of autism diagnosis 
means doctors are getting better at 
identifying the kids who need help. 
But other psychiatrists disagree. Some 
believe that the DSM-IV’s expanded 
definition went too far.

Allen 
Frances, 
former 
chairman of the DSM-IV Task Force, 
the umbrella group responsible for the 
DSM revision process, has repeatedly 
denounced the DSM-IV for setting 
off a “false epidemic.” He argues the 
rate of diagnosis needs to be curtailed. 
At stake in the debate is money. 
Before the DSM-IV, less than 1 percent 
of students receiving special education 
services were autistic. Now more than 
4 percent are, and the amount districts 
spend on special education services 
has skyrocketed. The annual cost of 
caring for individuals with autism in 
the United States is now $35 billion. 
In 2007, the APA set about 
revising the criteria again. The 
association appointed Dr. Susan 
Swedo, a senior investigator at the 
National Institute of Mental Health, 
as the chair of the committee that 
would deal with the autism criteria. A 
year later, Volkmar and thirteen other 
prominent psychiatrists and experts 
were asked to join the committee 
under Swedo’s leadership. Soon after,
Katharine Konietzko


--- Page 24 ---

24
the committee held a small conference 
for its members at the University of 
California, Davis.

During the conference, three 
groups each made recommendations 
for changing the DSM. One suggested 
only mild reforms, examining the role 
of IQ in diagnosis, for example, but 
made no mention of changing the 
overall DSM-IV structure. The other 
two groups, however, came back with 
much more drastic recommendations. 
Both advocated eliminating Asperger’s 
Syndrome altogether and suggested 
starting throwing away the existing 
framework entirely. By the spring of 
2009, just a year after the conference, 
Volkmar and another member of the 
committee had resigned. 

Volkmar refuses to discuss his 
resignation, saying only that he had 
become 
“disenchanted 
with 
process.” When asked about the 
committee, he said, “I’m not saying 
anything bad about anyone. They’re 
wonderful people, God love ’em. Just, 
what a mess.”

Since 
conference 
and 
Volkmar’s resignation, the DSM-
5 
committee 
has 
followed 
recommendations of the groups 
advocating radical change. In several 
statements issued to the public, 
the committee has stated that the 
distinctions in the DSM-IV among 
Asperger’s, PDD-NOS, and autism 
are arbitrary and confusing, like 
“trying to cleave meatloaf at the 
joints.” They intend to replace the 
DSM-IV’s Pervasive Developmental 
Disorders category with a single 
disorder, Autism Spectrum Disorder. 
Currently, a patient can receive 
a diagnosis on the autism spectrum 
if he or she demonstrates only some 
characteristic autism behaviors. The 
system is complicated, and there 
are a total of 2688 combinations of 
symptoms that would qualify for a 
diagnosis. The new rules are simpler—
there are only six combinations of 
symptoms that qualify. 

While simpler, the new rules may 
make the standards for determining 
who receives a diagnosis on the autism 
spectrum more stringent. A patient 
will only receive a diagnosis if he 
demonstrates each and every one of 
a series of social and communicative 
impairments. He will also have to 
have at least two types of restricted 
or repetitive behaviors—rocking back 
and forth and obsessively lining toys 
up in a line, for example. 

The committee that has drafted 
the new definitions maintains that no 
one who currently has a diagnosis will 
be cut off. The spectrum of disorders 
will be just as broad under the new 
rules as under the current ones, they 
say. “Really, things looked pretty 
good,” Lord said, based on the data 
she has seen. She admits that the field 
trials examining how the new criteria 
will affect autism diagnosis rates have 
been small, and that other, larger 
studies of the new criteria have not 
addressed the question of whether 
Jack Winegardner, 
one of the children 
who would be 
affected by changes 
to the definition of 
autism.
Susannah Shattuck



**The Changing Face of Autism**
**Author: Miriam Lauter**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
March 2012
the criteria would cut people off the 
spectrum. 

Volkmar calls the committee’s 
assurances 
“misleading.” 
The 
committee’s 
public 
statements 
have implied “we’re gonna have 
one big happy family of Autism 
Spectrum Disorder,” he said. What 
the committee is not advertising, he 
said, is that the newly defined Autism 
Spectrum Disorder will narrow the 
spectrum back down to a disorder 
more akin to autism under the DSM-
III.

“It’s actually going to be classical 
autism,” Volkmar says, smacking his 
palm with the back of his other hand. 
He is frustrated that the new criteria 
may narrow the autism spectrum back 
to intellectually disabled individuals, 
excluding those with higher IQs but 
significant social impairments.

Shortly after Volkmar left the 
DSM-5 committee, he and McPartland 
decided to go back over diagnostic 
assessments carried out while testing 
the DSM-IV criteria and examine 
how the children who participated 
in the study would have been scored 
had they been using the proposed 
DSM-5 criteria. As they disclosed at 
the conference in Iceland, 56 percent 
of patients with normal or high IQs 
(above 70) who received a DSM-IV 
diagnosis of autism, Asperger’s, or 
PDD-NOS would not have qualified 
for a diagnosis of autism spectrum 
disorder according to the new 
standards.

Similarly, this June, a group of 
researchers from Finland announced 
that only 46 percent of a group of 
children who were diagnosed with 
an autism spectrum disorder under 
the DSM-IV met the new criteria for 
autism. In another study, researchers 
in 
London 
examined 
diagnostic 
records of children with PDD-NOS. 
Almost none of the children displayed 
enough rigid, stereotyped behaviors to 
meet the proposed criteria for Autism 
Spectrum Disorder.

POD-NOS
ASPERGER’S
AUSTISM
AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER
The infographic 
below illustrates 
the changes 
being made to 
the definition of 
autism; the top 
bar shows the 
current spectrum 
of disorders 
associated with 
autism, while the 
bottom bar shows 
the new singular 
definition of 
autism.
Photo courtesy of Jean Winegardner


Lord argues that these studies 
all have a “major inherent flaw.” 
Some of the symptoms the DSM-5 
asks clinicians to check for, she says, 
were not included in the DSM-IV at 
all. If clinicians never asked about 
these symptoms when the diagnoses 
were first made, there is no way to 
know whether a child evaluated 
under the DSM-IV had them or 
not. For this reason, she says it 
is impossible to determine from 
previously collected data how 
the new criteria will affect autism 
rates. Still, she said, “We really 
want to know who didn’t meet 
and why.” She said the committee 
is open to making changes if its 
members can be convinced that 
many patients will be cut off 
the spectrum. But, “For that, we 
need information,” she said. “We 
don’t need polemics.”

Lord said that the DSM-5 
is strictly a scientific description 
of symptoms and behavior and 
that her colleagues can’t be expected 
to decide social policy for the country. 
DSM does not directly determine who 
gets access to services. “If you need 
treatment, you should get it, with or 
without a label,” she said.

But Jennifer Laviano, a special 
education 
lawyer 
Sherman, 
Connecticut, noted that bureaucracies 
such as school districts that regularly 
care for autistic people depend on 
authoritative diagnoses. “While there 
should be no difference in the services 
a child receives based on the label the 
child is given, the reality is that there 
are many important reasons that 
label matters.” An autism diagnosis 
can give parents more bargaining 
power in their meetings with school 
board officials and can help educators 
understand the obstacles a child faces.

School districts spend three to six 
times more on educating a child with 
autism than they would on educating 
a child who receives no special 
services. “School districts generally 
will use almost any excuse they can 
not to identify a child, especially if 
it’s going to be a costly program,” 
Laviano said. She also said that it 
is especially difficult to convince 
school districts to provide services for 
children who have high IQs but who 
are socially impaired. “School districts 
will say, ‘Oh, well, academically, he’s 
on grade level,’ or ‘If you look at 
his Connecticut Mastery Test scores, 
he’s always meeting goal,’ ” she said. 
Although the laws governing special 
cover 
functional 
and 
adaptive skills—such as classroom 
behavior, cooperation, and learning 
to take care of oneself—as well as 
academics, schools do not usually 
prioritize helping socially impaired 
children.

Andreana 
Bellach, 
a 
Stamford, 
Connecticut 
who 
represents 
school 
districts, argues that, often, more 
intelligent children don’t need special 
education services, even if they are 
awkward and uncomfortable in social 
situations. Such children benefit from 
“high cognitive functioning as well as 
their ability to be resilient and apply 
what they’ve learned,” Bellach said.

Often, parents find that the fight 
for support in school, for classroom 
aides, therapies, and special social-
skills training, goes hand-in-hand 
with the battle for a diagnosis. The 
biggest weapon parents have is a 
federal law, the Individuals with 
Disabilities Education Act, which 
guarantees a “free and appropriate 
public education” to all children with 
disabilities. In order to be eligible for 
the school services mandated by 
the law, however, a child must fall 
into one of thirteen categories. 
Autism is one of them.

Decisions 
about 
special 
education services are made by a 
tribunal of school administrators, 
teachers, 
providers, the child’s parents, and 
often lawyers. The group is called 
a Planning and Placement Team, 
and it determines what kinds 
of services are included in each 
child’s Individualized Education 
Program. Often, the members 
of the group disagree on what 
services a child should receive. 
Parents want their children to 
get as much help as possible, and 
schools need to conserve resources. 
Parents come to the meetings armed 
with every shred of information that 
could help prove that their child has 
significant challenges. Having an 
official diagnosis makes a difference.

“The reason that we have 
diagnoses is to help people who need 
help to get help,” said McPartland, 
the Yale researcher who presented 
alongside 
Volkmar 
Iceland. 
Lord argued that the committee’s 
responsibility is to science, not to 
society, but McPartland wishes that 
she and the other committee members 
would think more carefully about the 
effects their work will have. “We’re at 
the intersection of clinical decision 
making and public policy, and I don’t 
know how it’s going to be decided,” 
he said.

T
he qualities that Bellach described 
are visible in Winegardner’s son 
Jack, who, despite his social difficulties, 
Since 1994, the 
prevalence of autism 
and related disorders 
has gone from around 1 
in 5,000 children, to 
around 1 in 110 children.


has a high IQ and performs above 
grade-level on his standardized tests.

“We struggled a long time 
and fought for a long time to get 
an autism diagnosis,” Winegardner 
said. Jack, who at six had so much 
trouble passing out valentines to his 
classmates, is now eight years old. He 
was diagnosed with PDD-NOS when 
he was five, but even under the current 
DSM-IV criteria, getting the label and 
more importantly, school services, was 
a struggle.

“We were told by a lot of people, 
‘Oh he doesn’t present as a kid with 
autism,’” said Winegardner. Still, 
by the time Jack was two and in a 
preschool class, she knew something 
was wrong. “I started to notice that he 
wasn’t interacting with his peers and 
he wasn’t talking to the teacher,” she 
says. In fact, Jack wasn’t talking at all. 
Jack’s teacher voiced concerns and 
encouraged Winegardner to seek help. 
But when Jean took her son to be 
evaluated by the Maryland Infants and 
Toddlers Program, the state’s agency 
for very young children with special 
needs, he did not qualify. 

“They were like, ‘Oh he’s a boy, 
he’s a second child, he probably 
doesn’t have to talk as much,’ ” 
Winegardner recalled. Her older son 
had been a late talker as well, and 
the evaluators suggested she was 
probably overreacting. When Jack 
turned three and was still struggling 
in the classroom, Winegardner again 
sought to qualify her son for special 
services, this time at Montgomery 
County’s 
department, Childfind. Again, she was 
disappointed. 

“He works really well one-on-one 
with adults, and that was what the test 
was, so he performed really well,” said 
Jean. “It wasn’t really indicative of 
how he was functioning in the larger 
world.” When a psychologist finally 
visited the school, she agreed with 
Jean that something was wrong. Jack 
did not interact with his classmates 
but spent most of his time playing 
by himself. He was obsessed with 
trains. He could speak, but did so 
rarely. Following the psychologist’s 
recommendation, the school system 
moved Jack to a special-education 
preschool. 

Without an autism diagnosis, 
however, Jack would only be eligible for 
services until the end of kindergarten. 
With a diagnosis, he could receive help 
until his 21st birthday or high school 
graduation. 

Just after Jack turned five, he 
got a diagnosis. Jean enrolled him in 
a study at the National Institute of 
Mental Health in Bethesda, Maryland, 
and during the screening process 
for the study, doctors gave Jack the 
PDD-NOS label. Armed with the 
diagnosis, Jean was able to get her 
son an Individualized Education Plan, 
which provided a classroom aide and 
accommodation 
on 
assignments. 
Perhaps 
most 
importantly, 
the 
diagnosis helped Jack’s peers and 
teachers understand him.

“An 
autism 
diagnosis 
identifying my son as PDD-NOS has 
given us a starting place and a map and 
a path,” said Winegardner. Although 
coming to terms with Jack’s disability 
has been difficult, the diagnosis has 
given her a way to get Jack help. But 
Winegardner worries a lot about what 
will happen when the DSM-5 comes 
out and what will happen if the criteria 
become narrower.

“No one would look at Jack now 
and say he’s not autistic,” Winegardner 
said. “But then again,” she hesitated, 
“there will always be somebody who 
falls just outside.” She just hopes it 
won’t be her son.

**Title: FEAR OF NEEDLES**
**Author: Helen Knight**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
New Haven proved that syringe exchange pro­grams prevent the spread of HIV. Why won’t the Obama administration pay for them?

From two to three o’clock on Tuesday afternoons, the New Haven syringe exchange van parks on the corner of Grand Avenue and Ferry Street in Fair Haven. It’s here that George Bucheli, HIV counselor and educator, takes dirty syringes from intravenous drug users and provides them with sterile ones in return. 	
“This stop’s been hopping lately,” Bucheli told me. “We’ve been getting a lot of young male clients. Young. I mean like 19, 20 years old, Latino, white. From other places, too—East Haven, Waterbury, Branford.”


Across the street from the van is a Rite Aid Pharmacy. In Connecticut, the sale and possession of syringes without a prescription has been legal since 1993. This Rite Aid won’t sell them without a prescription, Bucheli told me. It’s easy to understand why. Who but a drug user wants to buy syringes without a prescription? And why condone—indeed facilitate—drug use? 

From a public health perspective, the answer to these questions is simple. When drug users have access to clean syringes, they don’t need to share. When they don’t share, they don’t transmit blood-borne diseases. In 2009, the Center for Disease Control estimated that injection drug use caused over four thousand new HIV cases. It’s the number one cause of hepatitis C transmission. All eight federally funded reports on syringe exchanges that have been published conclude that the programs do not increase drug use. In fact, if the programs are structured properly, they serve as an important point of contact between drug users and treatment. And the programs are cheap. Syringes costs about a dollar apiece. On average, the lifetime cost in medical care for a person with HIV/AIDS is between $405,000 and $648,000.


From a political perspective, things are more complicated. Ever since the concept of syringe exchanges was introduced in the late eighties, it has been a tough sell to politicians who believe the program “sends the wrong message” about drug use. In 2009, there appeared to be progress in the air when Congress lifted a twenty-one year ban on federal funding for syringe exchange programs. But this sense of progress was short-lived. In December 2011, Congress reinstated the ban.


The ban inspired a few stories in the media, but not many. It was passed just over a week before Christmas, as one of many measures in an omnibus spending bill, needed to keep the federal government funded for the rest of the fiscal year 2012. Most people were happy that the federal government would keep operating through June 2012. The new barrier to preventing HIV transmission turned few heads.


I met Bucheli on what was a quiet day for him. All his colleagues were out: one was recovering from back surgery, one’s father had died recently and one had called in sick. Because of the rain, few clients were coming to the van.


The van is not really a van at all—it’s a 1996 motor home. It contains a couch and dining booth upholstered in neutral tones. Bucheli’s clipboard is stowed in what was once the kitchen sink. Syringes and other supplies—alcohol swabs; hand sanitizer pads; cotton; cookers, or bottle-cap sized containers used to dissolve and mix drugs; and ties, for enlarging veins—occupy the kitchen drawers where some family once kept their dining utensils on a camping trip. A red sharps container sits on one side of the dining booth. 
“All of the syringes that we collect get melted and get out of circulation,” said Bucheli, slapping the sharps container. “When that doesn’t happen, they end up in the garbage and they end up in the park. People are shooting up at Long Wharf, even tricking, hustling.” He clarified. “There’s a lot of dudes I know, who in order to shoot up, they have sex with men at these parks.” Bucheli used to go running in the area and would pick up the used syringes and throw them away. The New Haven Health Department reprimanded him for fear he might sue the city if he was accidentally pricked. 


Bucheli’s interest in the cause is the product of personal experience: he is an ex-user. His history gives him a lens through which to understand his clients’ experiences. The job involves a lot more than handing out syringes. He and his colleagues provide HIV counseling as well as testing. When clients want to quit using drugs, Bucheli can help them get into local treatment programs, for which there is often more demand than availability. Having worked on the van since 1993, Bucheli knows all of the drug treatment programs in the area. He listed them according to their merits. South Central Rehabilitation Clinic on Cedar Street is good, but they require a photo ID, birth certificate, and social security card. Few of his clients have these documents. He often brings people to Central Dupage Hospital in Middletown; they take anyone he refers. Milestone Alcohol and Drug Treatment Center is ninety miles away in Putnam, Connecticut, but it’s one of the few places that take women who are pregnant or have children with them. 


Long-term treatment programs like the Carnes Weeks Center in Torrington accept clients for rehabilitation programs. “What’s cool about Carnes Weeks is that if I have someone who is just doing crack or just doing cocaine, they’ll take them,” said Bucheli. (There are no pharmaceutical treatments for cocaine addiction.) “They’ll just give them a thirty-day break, and sometimes that helps. When you haven’t done coke for a while it just clears your head, makes you less paranoid. You eat more, start thinking clearer.” 


Twelve years ago, Bucheli had a relapse with crack. “By that time, I had gotten hundreds of people into treatment, and I couldn’t do anything for myself,” he recalled. A close friend realized that something was amiss, and called the New Haven Employee Assistance Program.


Bucheli brought up his substance use history without prompting. I think he wanted to teach me something. Unlike many of the clients he works with, he had a safety net: a friend who would help, easy access to a program, a job that wouldn’t fire him. Since Bucheli was talking freely about his personal life, I thought it was as good a chance as any to ask him a personal question. 
“Are you HIV positive?”
“No,” he responded, but then changed his answer. “Actually, you know what, even though it’s none of your business, I am HIV positive. It’s one of the things that motivated me, because if there was an exchange program when I was getting high, I wouldn’t be positive.” 


Bucheli and I discussed whether I would include his HIV status in this article. Initially, he was not comfortable with the idea. My question, intrusive and unexpected, embarrassed both of us. I tried changing the topic. 
“What do you like best about this job?”
“The other day, one of the sex workers, an IV drug user, came to see us at the last stop,” said Bucheli. The woman had completed drug treatment. “She looked great, she had her hair done, she hugged us, she kissed us, she just looked so beautiful. There’s no words for it, just felt really good to see her like that, and she was so grateful. Sometimes it happens like that.” 


In New Haven, the battle for a syringe exchange program began in 1987. That year, the city began funding street outreach workers to seek out intravenous drug users in the community. They distributed condoms, information on HIV/AIDS, and bleach for cleaning syringes. 
At the time, New Haven was the epicenter of the HIV crisis in Connecticut. More HIV positive individuals lived here than anywhere else in the state. Today, it’s hard to imagine what that meant. HIV/AIDS is now a chronic health condition. With the antiretroviral drugs that are available, HIV-positive individuals can achieve clinically undetectable viral loads. People don’t look sick and they can live long, productive lives. In the 1980’s, an HIV diagnosis was considered a death sentence. 
“There were just so many people that were impacted and dying at a very young age,” recalled Elaine O’Keefe, executive director of Yale’s Center for Interdisciplinary Research on AIDS. At the time, O’Keefe worked at the New Haven Health Department. 
“It was traumatic. It was actually traumatic. I know at the time we used to use a lot of military language and I disparaged that. I think back, and I can understand why. There were a lot of casualties from this epidemic and it didn’t have to happen.” 
By 1987, drug use was the primary cause of HIV transmission in New Haven. Syringe possession without a prescription was illegal, and syringes were hard to come by and expensive. Addicts would go to shooting galleries, where they could rent syringes to get high. After shooting up, they would clean the syringes in a pail of water. The Mayor’s Task Force on AIDS, established in 1986, guided the city’s response to the epidemic. The committee was largely the brainchild of Al Novick, a Yale biologist who in the mid-1980’s shifted from his work on bat sonar navigation to research the HIV/AIDS crisis. The street outreach program was the product of lobbying by the Mayor’s Task Force. 
“The notion of actually going out



**Title: The Fight for Syringe Exchanges in New Haven**
**Author: Katharine Konietzko**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
--- Page 31 ---

31
March 2012
and working with people who were 
actively engaged in illicit drug use 
and not trying necessarily to change 
that behavior was quite radical,” said 
O’Keefe. “The bleach was so fraught 
with emotion. People thought: this is 
condoning drug use.” 


To those who knew the situation 
on the ground, providing syringes 
made sense. Syringe exchanges had 
started in Amsterdam, in 1984.  By 
1987, an illegal syringe distribution 
program was running in New Haven, 
the first of its kind in the United 
States. Jon Stuen-Parker, a former 
addict and a student at Yale School 
of Medicine, had started an HIV/
AIDS outreach group called the 
AIDS Brigade. With his headquarters 
in a storefront on York Street, Stuen-
Parker distributed syringes in shooting 
galleries in Boston and New Haven. 
He bought the syringes in Vermont. 
While providing needles illegally 
provided immediate relief, it was not 
an option for the Mayor’s Task Force 
on AIDS. Nor would it improve 
perceptions of syringe exchanges, in 
an age more hostile toward drug use 
than today. Myths were common: 
addicts were on suicide missions; they 
shared syringes ritualistically. 


To provide evidence for the 
utility of a syringe exchange, the 
Mayor’s Task Force had city outreach 
workers survey drug users about why 
they shared syringes. The results were 
unsurprising. Addicts were sharing 
needles because they feared arrest 
and because needles were difficult to 
buy on the streets. In the research, 
addicts also complained about drug 
treatment programs. The waitlists 
were long. There were not supportive 
services like childcare available during 
treatment. There was not enough 
rehabilitative training to remain drug-
free after treatment.  


With evidence in hand, the 
Mayor’s Task Force began a campaign 
to reform the approach to substance 
use and HIV at the state level. 
They called for AIDS education 
and outreach, decriminalization of 
possession and sale of syringes, 
expanded drug treatment services, 
and the establishment of legal needle 
exchange programs. They met with the 
police force, members of the criminal 
justice system, those involved in drug 
treatment, and other community-
based organizations to educate these 
groups on the potential value of 
needle exchanges and to garner their 
support. Talking with the drug users 
was also important. “We wanted to 
make sure that we were not making 
assumptions without touching base 
with the people that were going to use 
the interventions,” said O’Keefe. 


In early 1989, the Mayor’s 
Task Force presented a proposal 
for decriminalization of the sale 
and possession of syringes to the 
Connecticut State Public Health 
Committee. The hearing was a failure, 
according to O’Keefe. “Members of 
the legislature said, ‘We can’t do this; 
don’t even come back.’” 


W
hile I was on the van, a new 
client approached. Bucheli sat 
down with him at the dining room 
table to complete an initial intake form. 
As in a clinic, all client information on 
the Community Health Care Van is 
confidential. 


Bucheli gave me a copy of the 
intake form: What is your drug of 
choice? How many times a day are 
you shooting? Where did you usually 
get your syringes? Have you ever been 
to a drug treatment program, and 
would you like a referral? What is your 
HIV status? This question is multiple 
choice: Positive, Negative, Don’t 
Know, Don’t want to disclose. 


After the forms were completed, 
Bucheli 
turned 
to 
the 
kitchen 
drawers. He filled a brown lunch 
bag with supplies. “If you ever want 
to get tested, if you ever want to go 
to treatment, whatever you want, 
whenever you’re ready, let me know,” 
he said to the client. He gave him a 
pamphlet on safe injection procedures. 
With brown bag in hand, the man was 
on his way. 


Bucheli turned back to me. 
“Basically,” he said, “that’s it.” 


I
n March 1990, the Mayor’s Task 
Force on AIDS returned to the 
Public Health Committee for a 
hearing on the decriminalization of 
possession and sale of needles without 
a prescription. A year of dedicated 
lobbying had followed their initial 
rejection. Elections for the mayor of 
New Haven were held in 1989, and 
the Mayor’s Task Force campaigned 
to make sure that all candidates would 
support their policies if elected. They 
gained the official endorsement of 
public health organizations. They 
found state legislators who would 
co-sponsor a bill, William Dyson of 
New Haven and Joseph Grabarz of 
Bridgeport. 


At the hearing, the results of a 
year of advocacy were mixed. The 
committee was more receptive, but 
significant compromise was required 
for the bill to move forward. In the 
end, the state legislature approved 
one demonstration syringe exchange 
program for one year. The program 
would 
be 
exempt 
from 
legal 
restrictions on injection drug use, 
but the laws would be maintained in 
the rest of Connecticut. The state 
legislature chose New Haven as the 
demonstration site. The bill passed 
successfully through the state House 
and Senate and was signed into law in 
June 1990. 


“It was less than what we 
wanted,” said O’Keefe, “but I can 
tell you we were thrilled to have 
done that because there were very 
few places in the country that had 
even made it that far.” The successful 
passage of the Connecticut bill was 
especially remarkable because of the 
simultaneous closure of a syringe 


--- Page 32 ---

32
The New Journal
exchange program in New York City, 
largely as a result of newly elected 
mayor David Dinkins’ opposition to 
the program.


T
oday, victories for the syringe 
exchange van are still hard-won. 
The program is still funded by the 
state, and finances are strained. 
The current van is a 1996 model. 
But to Bucheli, it’s the “new van,” 
having been purchased by the program 
last July. The previous vehicle was in 
bad shape, and had been for some 
time. A fiscal year 2010 report on 
Connecticut syringe exchanges notes 
that the New Haven program was “in 
dire need” of a new van. “We fought 
for this,” said Bucheli. 


Within thirty days of purchase, 
the new van’s generator broke. Now, 
it’s too dark to continue working after 
4:30 p.m. As a result, Bucheli and 
his colleagues have shifted the van’s 
schedule to complete the stops that 
were in the evening during the day. 
They’re missing out on an important 
time for connecting with clients. No 
one stops shooting up at four o’clock. 


“We have to fight, sometimes the 
money doesn’t come from the state 
that fast, either. We’re still waiting on 
some of the money we got awarded. 
When that comes, we can get that [the 
generator] fixed,” said Bucheli.  


Nevertheless, the new van is 
an improvement. For one thing, it’s 
larger. The old van was too small to 
draw blood for STD testing, though 
all of the van’s staff is trained to do 
so. Bucheli hopes they can start STD 
testing in the near future. 


A lot of the new van’s superiority 
has to do with what is painted on 
its side. The old van said “Harm 
Reduction.”  While harm reduction is 
not inherently linked to HIV/AIDS, 
Bucheli believes it helped the van gain 
its name on the street, the AIDS van. 
Because of the label, a lot of drug 
users were reluctant to use its services. 


On 
this 
van, 
words 
“Outreach 
Unit” 
have 
replaced 
“Harm Reduction.” Bucheli attributes 
the new name to a lot of new clients, 
almost one hundred in the last quarter 
alone. 


The paint on the van’s side has 
changed, but some drug users still 
don’t want to be associated with the 
AIDS van. Some still access the van’s 
services through friends who pick up 
needles for them, a process that is 
termed “secondary distribution.” 


“A lot of the time, clients think 
secondary distribution is a bad thing,” 
said Bucheli. “I have to reassure them 
that what you’re doing is a good thing. 
It’s a great thing.” 


hen 
demonstration 
program was approved in 1990, 
it was given a year and $25,000 to 
make its point. 


Approval 
for 
program 
stipulated that within a year, data be 
produced on its effects. Given that 
the $25,000 was barely enough for 
program costs, the New Haven Health 
Department was fortunate that Yale 
was willing to fund the evaluation pro 
bono. To do the research, Al Novick, 
chair of the Mayor’s Task Force, 
recruited Ed Kaplan, a mathematical 
modeler at the Yale School of 
Management.


The design of the evaluation was 
inherently challenging. If it were too 
intrusive, drug users would not come 
to the van. For this reason, testing 
clients for HIV was not an option. 
Extensive collection of qualitative 
data—asking the clients about their 
drug 
use 
behaviors—was 
both 
intrusive and limiting in terms of the 
conclusions that could be drawn from 
it. 


Kaplan came up with a solution. 
Rather than basing his modeling on 
client data, he would base it on syringes 
data. If he could test the returned 
needles for HIV, client involvement 
in the evaluation could be minimized. 
Robert Heimer at the Yale School of 
Medicine was enlisted for the actual 
needle analysis. To test the needles, 
Heimer used the polymerase chain 
reaction, a technique that is now an 
essential part of biomedical research, 
but at the time was still emerging. 
Each syringe would be given an 
identification number, and each client 
would choose a pseudonym to identify 
him or herself. The program’s workers 
would record who was given which 
syringe and when. They would take 
the same data for returned syringes. 
In the lab, Heimer would determine 
which returned needles were HIV 
positive. Kaplan, in his analysis, 
would compare the percentage of the 
program’s needles that were infected 
to the percentage of needles collected 
on the street and in shooting galleries 
that were infected. 


Meanwhile, the program design 
was assembled. Many of the original 
street outreach workers served as the 
van’s staff. Yale donated a van that was 
once used for dining hall deliveries. It 
was the same color as blue police vans, 
so it was re-painted a cheerful peachy 
orange, and adorned with murals by 
Bucheli filled a 
brown lunch bag 
with supplies. 
“If you ever want 
to get tested, if 
you ever want to 
go to treatment, 
whatever you 
want, whenever 
you’re ready, let 
me know,” he said 
to the client. 


--- Page 33 ---

33
local high school students. 


On November 13, 1990, the 
syringe exchange van set out on its 
maiden voyage. That day, the program 
enrolled twenty clients, collecting over 
fifty needles. Three clients requested 
drug treatment. Within the program’s 
first year, over nine hundred clients 
enrolled and over one hundred were 
referred to drug treatment programs. 


Kaplan and Heimer released 
preliminary results of their research in 
July 1991. Fifty percent of the needles 
returned to the program were HIV 
positive. In comparison, 68 percent of 
street needles were positive, as were 
92 percent of needles from shooting 
galleries. 


According 
Kaplan’s 
modeling, the program decreased the 
HIV infection rate among clients by 
33 percent. 


Kaplan and Heimer’s results 
made national headlines. At the 
time, data on syringe exchanges was 
limited. The researchers’ approach 
was compelling for its objectivity 
and unobtrusiveness. “People still 
recognize how extraordinary it is, 
looking at the needles rather than the 
people,” said O’Keefe. “It was all that 
I had hoped for; it was enough to keep 
the program going.” 


The same week that Kaplan 
and Heimer released their results, 
the National Commission on AIDS 
issued a report. Entitled “The 
Twin Epidemics of Substance Use 
and HIV,” the report criticized 
the federal government for its 
insufficient response to the drug 
user-driven HIV epidemic. Among 
its recommendations, the report 
called for expanding drug treatment 
services, legalizing the possession of 
syringes, and developing programs for 
preventing HIV transmission related 
to drug use. Three years before, 
the Mayor’s Task Force had begun 
campaigning for these same changes. 
It had taken a few years of advocacy, 
but in New Haven in July 1990, 
progress appeared possible. 


B
efore Bucheli began working on 
the van, he was an advocate. In 
the late eighties and early nineties, 
Bucheli was a member of AIDS 
Coalition to Unleash Power, or ACT 
UP. At the time, ACT UP participants 
were nationally famous for their 
public demonstrations to change 
AIDS-related policy. 


In 1993, Bucheli and fellow ACT 
UP members in New Haven were 
disrupting a meeting of the Mayor’s 
Task Force. They were protesting the 
fact that drug users were only able to 
receive ten syringes at a time from the 
program. As they were dragged out 
and arrested, one of ACT UP’s police 
liaisons noticed the health department 
was looking for an outreach worker for 
the program. “He said, ‘This would be 
a great job for you,’ ” Bucheli recalled. 
Three months later, Bucheli was hired. 


When Clinton was elected, the 
New Haven chapter of ACT UP 
disbanded. They thought the fight 
had been won. For syringe exchanges, 
the early 1990’s did produce some 
successes. In Connecticut, the state 
legislature established five additional 
syringe 
exchange 
programs 
and 
legalized the sale and possession of 
syringes without a prescription. The 
early success of the New Haven 
syringe exchange program influenced 
development 
of 
nationally, including in Massachusetts 
and California. In New York, the New 
Haven results were instrumental in 
Mayor Dinkins’ decision to revive a 
syringe exchange program two years 
after shutting it down.


Clinton, however, disappointed 
advocates 



**Title: Smelling Blood**
**Author: Juliana Hanle**
**Page number(s): 36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Get your gun, bag a squirrel, and don’t 
be afraid to dirty your lily-white hands.


**Title: The New Haven Syringe Exchange: A 20-Year Struggle**
**Author: Helen Knight**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

The New Journal
syringes after using them, for fear of 
police harassment.
The idea behind a one-for-one 
exchange is that it prevents people 
from accidentally getting pricked by 
needles discarded on the streets or 
in parks. Kaveh Khoshnood SPH ’89 
GRD ’95, a professor of epidemiology 
and public health at the Yale School 
of Medicine, explained to me that this 
concern is only so legitimate. The risk 
of someone getting infected by an 
accidental needle stick is not zero, but 
it’s incredibly low.

In Windham, Connecticut, a 
syringe exchange program was shut 
down in 1997 because a child was 
accidentally stuck while playing in her 
backyard. “Politicians who don’t like 
syringe exchanges made a huge deal 
out of the fact that discarded syringes 
were here and there,” Khoshnood 
said. “And somehow they pushed this 
story. They didn’t understand syringe 
exchange or didn’t want to.”

I
n 1993, Altice started a mobile 
healthcare
prog ram—the 
Community Health Care Van. Its 
history is closely linked to that of the 
syringe exchange van. 
When the syringe exchange 
program was started, its initiators 
knew that the drug users it served 
needed more than clean needles. 
Altice began the Community Health 
Care Van to meet those needs, initially 
providing HIV testing and counseling, 
social services, and basic primary 
care. He waited three years after the 
syringe exchange was established to 
enact the plan. “Needle exchange 
was so polarized as an issue for the 
communities. At the outset, there was 
a concern of not doing anything more 
than syringe exchange just to prove it 
worked,” said Altice. “We did not want 
to destabilize the process by 
adding on too many different 
things.” 

By 
mid-1992, 
the 
effectiveness of the syringe 
exchange 
program 
was 
well 
established. 
Without 
any outside funding, Altice 
assembled 
Community 
Health Care Van. The vehicle 
was donated to him.  Altice was 
the doctor on board. Yale-New 
Haven Hospital sent a social 
worker, and the New Haven 
Health Department sent an 
HIV counselor. In the first year, 
the van went out once a week, 
following the syringe exchange 
van to each stop. Clients could 
go get their syringes and then walk 
over to the Community Health Care 
Van for assistance with medical issues. 
While the Community Health 
Care Van worked directly with the 
syringe exchange van, Altice never 
intended to be the same kind of state-
funded initiative. “At the time, the 
health department was just not in a 
position to do anything more than it 
was doing,” Altice explained. His use 
of private funding was “the only way 
it would have happened.” 

The van’s history has been one 
of growth. By collecting data on 
the van’s services, Altice was able to 
gain grants to expand its programs. 
The van was on the streets five days 
a week by 1996. Today, it offers an 
programs. While he recognized that 
the programs helped slow the spread 
of HIV, he refused to lift the ban on 
federal funding for syringe exchanges 
that had been in place since 1988. In 
2002, Clinton said that he had made 
a mistake in not supporting syringe 
exchanges during his presidency. 

The Bush Administration did not 
express support for syringe exchange 
programs.

The New Haven program also 
did not live up to initial expectations. 
Funding was perpetually an issue. 
Staff numbers declined. Hours 
were cut. The vehicle suffered 
from mechanical problems. 
Frederick Altice, professor 
at Yale School of Medicine who 
has been involved in research 
on HIV/AIDS and substance 
use in New Haven for over 
two decades, noticed a gradual 
decline in the city’s syringe 
exchange program beginning 
in 1993. “Then, from about 
1998 to 2000, I think you saw 
a major decline. I think from 
2003, they’ve really struggled 
continuously.” 

Bucheli hopes that the 
program can find new sources 
of money other than state 
funding.  The program has recently 
received a new supervisor, Brooke 
Logan, and she’s supposed to be good 
at grant writing. “The thing that’s 
bad with that is that they’re putting 
that federal ban back in place,” said 
Bucheli. “Now it’s over. Unbelievable. 
Stupid. We’re all going to die.”

It’s clear that Bucheli is upset 
when 
barriers 
stop 
him 
from 
distributing syringes. The program 
operates as a one-for-one exchange. 
Clients can only receive as many 
syringes as they bring back. Clients 
might come without syringes, or 
without as many as they need, because 
they are distributing clean syringes to 
friends who don’t return them. And 
they don’t want to be in possession of 

“Why has 20 years 
of evidence, 
continued advocacy, 
and support not 
done the job? At 
some point, it’s 
just politics.”


March 2012
TNJ
Helen Knight is a junior in 
Davenport College and a 
Senior Editor of The New 
Journal.

expanded range of services, including 
drug and HIV treatment, tuberculosis 
testing, vaccinations, and mental 
health services. The program owns 
a beautiful, forty-foot mobile clinic, 
complete with examination and intake 
rooms. 

When the syringe exchange van 
has struggled, the Community Health 
Care Van has stepped in to fill the 
void. Until the early 2000’s, the two 
vans still went to all of the same stops, 
but variability in the syringe exchange 
van’s 
schedule 
due 
to 
funding 
issues made this challenging. The 
Community Health Care Van started 
to work independently.  

“Their hours were cut, their van 
was broken down, they just weren’t 
out on the streets,” Altice said of 
the syringe exchange program at that 
time. “We would have a lot of drug 
users who would come in for health 
services, who were essentially saying, 
‘We don’t know what to do. We would 
like clean syringes.’ ”

In Connecticut, only licensed 
providers 
could 
legally 
perform 
syringe exchange. The Community 
Health Care Van did not qualify as a 
licensed provider, but Altice figured 
out another way to make sure users 
were getting clean needles. He 
discovered clinicians could legally 
prescribe needles for HIV prevention, 
and so the van started doing this in 
2002. 

I asked Altice what might be 
done so that Obama repeals the ban 
in his proposed budget for the fiscal 
year 2013. 

“You mean why has 20 years of 
evidence, continued advocacy, and 
support not done its job?” he replied. 
“At some point, it’s just politics.”


n the United States today, there are 
221 syringe exchange programs in 
thirty-three states and the District of 
Columbia. It is not known how many 
have received federal funding since 
the original ban was repealed in 2009. 

“When Obama allowed federal 
funds to be used for syringe exchange, 
he didn’t actually allocate any new 
funds,” explained Khoshnood. “In a 
sense, I don’t think much happened 
between when he announced it and 
when the Republican Congress just 
reinstated the ban.”

As a student at Yale School of 
Public Health in the late eighties, 
Khoshnood was involved in the 
underground syringe exchange in 
New Haven. He participated in the 
initial evaluation of the demonstration 
program, and has researched HIV/
AIDS ever since. 

“In some ways, it’s kind of back 
to square one. It’s unbelievable that in 
2012 we have to go right back to what 
we were doing in the late eighties and 
early nineties—remind government 
officials that this saves lives, does not 
increase drug use, saves money—and 
it’s a little surreal,” said Khoshnood. 

Scientific research is one way 
to appreciate the value of syringe 
exchange programs; a second is the 
people they affect. 

To Bucheli, every syringe makes a 
difference. His ideal syringe exchange 
would be one that is open twenty-
four hours a day. He wishes there was 
a hotline program, where drug users 
could call for syringes and a program 
staff member would go meet them 
with the requested supplies. 

“Sometimes I think I enable,” 
he said. “But then I figure I’m giving 
them a clean needle, so it’s a thin line. 
It’s hard to stop getting high once you 
start. It was very hard for me to stop, 
took years.” 

T
he Community Health Care Van 
and the syringe exchange van 
still do share a stop, on the corner of 
Chatham and Ferry in Fair Haven. It’s 
a high drug use and prostitution area, 
so it’s a good location. 

I went there with Bucheli from 
Grand and Ferry. The Community 
Health Care Van was parked on the 
other corner, looking dry, warm, and 
inviting in the cold weather. If a client 
comes on with health problems at this 
location, Bucheli walks them over to 
the other van. We walk over too, to say 
hello. 

Bucheli left Chatham and Ferry 
to pick up some donations. He also 
was dropping me off back at Yale—I 
wasn’t going to find a cab willing to 
pick me up at Chatham and Ferry, he 
said. 

“I appreciate you coming and 
asking questions,” Bucheli said. He 
brought up his HIV status. “You can 
put it in there if you want. I think 
if other people know, it’s not such a 
bad thing, ’cause it kind of felt good 
telling you. Maybe that should be in 
the article. Makes sense.”

Ten minutes later, he dropped 
me off on York and Chapel, an 
intersection very different from the 
one from which we had arrived. I 
watched the van pull away, loaded 
with its cargo of clean syringes to 
distribute.

--- Page 36 ---

36
Photos courtesy of Juliana Hanle



**Title:  Untitled**
**Author:  Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 37-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Just two weeks before Thanksgiving, 
the scent of braising meat, like 
bread and old leaves, filled the kitchen. 
My squirrel was breaking down, 
slipping off its bones. One of my 
housemates walked in, where I leaned 
over the stovetop watching our dinner 
simmer. 

“Smells great,” Travis said. I 
nodded and sniffed again. Squirrel, I 
thought, smells like both rabbit and 
quail, but also nutty and a little gamey. 
Rodent might not be prime protein, 
but a hunter obeys her principles. If 
you kill it, you eat it.

The inversion of that principle 
brought me to hunting. If you eat it, 
you kill it—or at least comprehend 
what it means to kill for food. The 
combination of that conviction with 
a commitment to local, organic food 
forms the foundation of an ethos of 
eating that is increasing in popularity. 
The locavore, or local eater, reduces 
carbon footprint, removes her support 
from landscape-destroying factory 
farms, and instead contributes to her 
regional economy (generally within 
one hundred miles). More and more 
local eaters—mostly young, white, and 
educated—are making the lunge from 
the neighborhood farmer’s market to 
the forest kill. This fall, I joined them.

I have been trying to eat local 
as much as possible for almost five 
years. I’ve also worked, both for pay 


years. I’ve also worked, both for pay and not, for brief stints on organic 
farms. Eating local, organic food ties 
the diner to the land, celebrating the 
methods of agriculture just as much as 
the products. Locavorism is beautiful. 
Like most urban locavores, what 
I’ve done to support local, organic 
agriculture has mostly been limited to 
conscientious consumption. However, 
for those who eat meat, the inevitable 
conclusion of the locavore philosophy 
is killing, not purchasing, your dinner. 
Eating wild game uses fewer natural 
resources and causes less ecological 
damage than eating domesticated 
animals. Six years ago,  Michael Pollan 
suggested in his seminal book, The 
Omnivore’s Dilemma, that if most of 
the food Americans consume travels 
across half a continent to the dinner 
plate, then hunting in your backyard is 
the omnivore’s solution.

Some 
urban 
foragers 
have 
quietly taken to parks to seek rabbits 
and pigeons for their stockpots. 
Others swipe fresh roadkill. They’re 
beginning to gain public recognition. 
Last summer Hank Shaw published 
his cookbook Hunt, Gather, Cook: 
Finding the Forgotten Feast. Sam Sifton, 
restaurant critic for The New York 
Times, gave the book a strong, 
positive review. A month earlier, 
Mark Zuckerberg publicly declared 
his abstinence from any meat that he 
has not shot himself. Jackson Landers, 
who offers a home-butchery and 
deer biology course called “Hunting 
for Locavores” in his hometown of 
Charlottesville, Virginia, published a 
book called The Beginner’s Guide to Deer 
Hunting for Food in September.

What the book doesn’t mention 
is that hunting brings the locavore into 
contact with more than an animal. 
Hunting placed me at a meeting-point 
between hunters living their family 
tradition and young urbanites who’ve 
never tasted wild game.

I decided to try hunting myself, 
first for small game and then for 
deer. I hoped to end the season with 
a freezer chest of butchered venison. 
If you, reader, are like me, then you 
will want to know how the uninitiated 
can become blaze-orange-wearing 
huntsmen. 

First, you’ve got to get legal.


LICENSED TO KILL
The Ulster Heights Rod and 
Gun Club sits at the feet of the 
Catskills, some ninety miles upriver 
from Manhattan, twenty miles west 
of the Hudson River. Cell phones 
don’t work there and, on a Saturday 
morning in October, fog lay over the 
few fields visible from the road like a 
second crop. I am nearly one hundred 
miles west of New Haven, but only a 
few dozen from my mother’s family 
home.

It was terribly cold inside the 
cement brick building, but it was 
crowded. Most of the forty odd 
hunter’s safety education certification 
candidates were white males, ranging 
in age from the twelve-year-old three 
rows back to the whiskered grey-hairs 
who know their guns. Nearly all of us 
wore variations on old jeans and work 
flannel. It was a worn-looking crowd. 
Most of these men were preparing 
to enter a hunting community 
sustained by tradition. Families pass 
on that tradition, fathers, like the man 
who embraced his son,  a soft-cheeked 
teenager, when the boy walked out 
with his safety certificate. These 
families have been eating sustainably 
for generations. The wood-colored 
fellow next to me, who called me 
“honey” when I passed him a rifle, 
told me he liked bear meat best of all 
game.

New York, like most states, 
requires attending a hunter safety 
course like the one hosted by the 
Rod and Gun Club. The International 
Hunter 
Education 
Association 
provides 
the 
curriculum, 
which 
covers different types of firearms, 
ammunition, the mechanical sequence 
of a bullet leaving a gun, and basic 
safety rules and tips. Our two 
instructors speak most adamantly, 
and eloquently, about the ethics and 
tradition of hunting. 

“You do not drive through town 
with a buck on the hood of your car. 
Those days are over,” Carl, a former 
police officer, told us. He doesn’t want 
hunters vilified. The combination of 
a cute, dead animal and triumphant 
gunman paints a tired picture of 
redneck bloodlust. It is the clichéd 
image of a community whose sport 
has become increasingly regulated 
and politicized over the last three 
decades—a sport on the defense. 
Carl told us that hunters have a 
duty to conservation, to protecting 
land and resources for sustained use. 
A hunter kills only as many creatures 
as a healthy ecosystem can afford. 
“Conservation 
is 
not 
environmentalism,” he announced, 
his enunciation forceful from years 
in law enforcement. Carl was assuring 
my fellow students that he did not 
want to force a partisan agenda 
on them. I imagine that, to Carl, 
“environmentalism” means something 
too extreme, irrelevant, and yuppie—a 
little like me, staring at him from the 
aisle two rows back.

Killing this 
creature only felt 
tragic because 
I had witnessed 
its death. I don’t 
see the meat that 
lives as poorly as 
it dies.


But 
from 
where 
I 
sit, 
conservation is environmentalism. In 
an America where food is produced 
on fear-inducing scales and where 
we throw away our meals as easily as 
we consume them, the idea of being 
conservative in what you kill and eat is 
countercultural.

I wondered what else I might 
agree on with these men. I saw in the 
instructors and my fellow students 
signs of an unspoken, deep respect 
for the natural landscape. A new 
hunter needs the knowledge that these 
men possess. After a license, you need 
a guide. 


AMONG THE TREES
It took me half an hour to bag my 
first squirrel. She went down with 
a shoulder shot, which shattered her 
right leg and struck through her left 
ribs, exactly what Joe had told me you 
want with small game. It was the first 
weekend in November and the first 
time I had ever looked through the 
scope of a rifle to see an eye gazing 
back.

Joe LaGatutta, my new mentor, 
had driven over for my gun shakedown 
that afternoon. We were shooting on 
my mother’s late aunt’s property on 
the Hudson River. Eight years ago, 
when Joe had started helping my 
mother tear asbestos insulation out of 
one of the buildings, he had already 
been working for many of the families 
in the small village of West Park 
(seven miles north of Poughkeepsie 
on the western bank of the Hudson) 
as a contractor. Joe had agreed to 
take on my mother on the condition 
that she let him track game across the 
property. With his extensive client list, 
Joe has accumulated a massive system 
of private hunting grounds this way. 
He shares the tree stands he has set 
up all throughout the creased woods 
of the Catskill foothills with a group 
of hunting buddies, and he teaches 
many of the neighborhood kids how 
to hunt, including me. 

Joe grew up in the Bronx, 
spending his summers in the village 
five miles south of West Park. As a 
young teenager he would walk into the 
woods at the town’s end and, when he 
re-emerged, it was with pockets heavy 
with squirrel, he told me. He wanted 
me to start the same way.

With little preface, Joe had 
slapped a cardboard box with target 
stickers in front of a brush pile and 
watched me load his Remington .22 
caliber with four bullets. I had settled 
myself around the gun, nuzzling its 
stock into my shoulder and curving 
down so that my cheek bulged on top 
of its butt, pulling the gun hard against 
my collarbone, pressing my hand into 
the side of a tree for stability. This 
settling isn’t a quick motion, not for a 
beginner, because the coordination of 
muscles is unique to shooting.

More important, however, is 
breathing. All gunmen know and 
preach the same breathing sequence: 
you breathe naturally until you’ve 
got your sights aligned, take a 
breath, release it halfway, and gently 
squeeze the trigger. I first learned 
this technique at summer camp, 
where I loved the rifle range and shot 
nearly every day, though, when I had 
considered it then, I was repelled by 
the thought of killing animals. Joe had 
me practice standing shots and then 
sitting ones, my back against the tree, 
arms braced against my knees, taking 
advantage of the natural environment. 
I shot well and he was pleased. Of 
the few that weren’t bulls’ eyes, Joe 
said, “That’s still a dead squirrel.” I 
was ready enough. Any beginner with 
steady hands and a week at a practice 
range could be as good.

Joe taught me only a little less 
carefully than he had helped sight 
his elderly brother-in-law who, due 
to damage from cataract surgery, has 
had to learn to shoot lefty. Another 
day I watched, disconcerted, as the 
older man’s bullets went wide of the 
deer-sized target’s entire body. But Joe 
watched him keenly, offering pointers 
to bring his shot into the killing circle.

Joe left me the rifle and a box of 
bullets. I walked down the wooded 
river bluff with an intent to kill. 

I settled myself in the tree stand 
that Joe had installed above a deer 
bedding area in a low spot that runs 
parallel to the river. From fifteen 
feet up I could see the Hudson, the 
neighboring monastery, and an entire 
swath of forest that I had never seen 
before. From this vantage I could read 
the terrain. I saw the worn tracks of 
animals in parted grasses and deadfall.

I sat there twitching. Hunting 
really shouldn’t be an active verb, I 
thought. From all that I had heard 
from Joe and the guys at the Rod and 
Gun club, the activity largely consists 
of hours spent waiting and watching. 
Hunters will come away from the deer 
season often with only one to four 
kills, but many cold days of stillness. 
I didn’t shoot the first squirrel I 
could. You don’t shoot the first one, 
Joe had explained to me, because 
more will follow, and you don’t want 
to scare them off. When you do shoot 
one, you do not retrieve it immediately. 
“Fifteen minutes later they’ll come 
back to play,” he told me.

The 
second 
squirrel 
came 
skittering into the western edge of 
the deer’s clearing, spiraling around a 
log as it chased a third. My sensations 
heightened by adrenaline, I nearly 
laughed at their play. The squirrel 
stopped on the log, though her friend 
continued on into a thicket. She sat up 
on her hind legs in perfect profile and 
looked at me, coquettish and bold, and 
as accommodating as Joe had said she 
would be. I lined up my muzzle, my 
shoulders, my cheek, and breathed in, 
half out, and gently pulled the trigger. 
She flew off the log, bounced three, 
maybe four, squirrel jumps and then 
dribbled under another downed tree 
about six feet from the first, where she 
immediately ceased moving. 



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
My whole body quivered, thrilled 
with horror. I nearly cried. I wondered 
at how senselessly I had ended her 
game. I stared through the canopy, 
the trees all breathing and swaying. 
The birds had gone silent with the 
gunshot. Would this be the moment, 
I asked myself, that I would remember 
in the future as my conversion to 
vegetarianism? I could see the furry 
hind of the dead squirrel but the 
thought of touching it made me feel 
ill. The Hudson River glittered calmly 
behind the trees. 

I couldn’t tell if my shaking was 
from endorphins, shock, or the cold. 
I was stuck in the metal stand, waiting 
because Joe had told me to, but also 
because I wanted to make sure that 
the squirrel wouldn’t still be alive 
when I descended, and I had nothing 
to do but sit in the sky and think over 
what I had done.
Killing this creature only felt 
tragic because I had witnessed its 
death. I don’t see the meat that lives 
as poorly as it dies. This squirrel lived 
wild and now it would be eaten—and 
that was good. 

The following hour was quiet, as 
the sun passed over the hill and the 
woods seemed to age, turning grey 
and amber. My shadow lay across the 
groundcover, enflamed by the falling 
sun.  I listened for more squirrels. 
There are hours when the squirrels are 
loud and hours when they are quiet. 
When they feel bold, the animals can 
make as much noise as a child crashing 
through deadfall. Other times only 
the uncanny twitch of a leaf reveals 
their progress across a branch. Over 
the next hour, a quiet one, I pinned 
three more squirrels in my crosshairs, 
hesitated, and lost them. A deer leapt 
down the western banks, moving 
south with the wind. It was growing 
far colder and my hands on the rifle 
were white, blue, and green. It was 
time to dress my kill.
A squirrel is adorable in death. 
Its fur is soft, features delicate, and 
eyes cracked as if it were just sinking 
into a doze. Only a bubble of blood at 
the nostrils and the red exit and entry 
wounds show its trauma. Outside my 
great aunt’s house, I set up my squirrel 
on a board and swigged from a bottle 
of Hudson River Valley whiskey. I 
started by clipping off the feet. When 
you press in the tendons by a squirrel’s 
feet, the toes curl in, just as they do 
in limp human wrists, and I dropped 
the thing with a cry when its claws 
unexpectedly scraped my latex-gloved 
hand. With scissors I then snipped 
through the skin across the abdomen 
and up its belly, gripped the fur and 
started to peel back. Joe had told me 
that it would feel like I was undressing 
the squirrel, but it didn’t. It took strong 
pulling, and I had to push my fingers 
between her warm abdomen and her 
hide, though I did slide her leg stumps 
out from her furred sleeves as if they 
were the ends of a winter parka. This 
was almost a bloodless process, since 
the body is encased in muscle. She was 
nearly meat.
The body peeled, I chopped 
off the squirrel’s tail and head and 
discarded them with the feet. I sliced 
a line below and then up between 
her ribs, cutting away the diaphragm 
and then the tissue connecting the 
heart and lungs to the chest cavity. I 
set those organs aside. I then pulled 
out her gastro-intestinal tract, whole, 
because puncturing the guts would 
release bacteria. Cutting through the 
joints, I divided the carcass into six 
cuts: four legs and an upper and lower 
torso. These I put inside, into the 
freezer, where any germs would die in 
a few hours.
The next morning, before dawn, 
I returned to my post. As the sun 
rose, above grasses and leaves lined 
with frost, I listened for the wakening 
forest. A turkey clucked. Hawk-sized 
Pileated Woodpeckers watched the 
forest floor from the highest limbs of 
a dead oak with far keener eyes than 
mine. The sun rose over the Hudson, 
shining in one amber track across its 
waters, slipping gold trails between the 
maples. The squirrels began to chatter. 
I took one out in the first twenty 
minutes with a perfect shot. I waited 
for my third squirrel. 

I watched with my ears, because 
the story of the woods is in every 
sound. The chickadees tentatively 
warming their throats, the tiny 
songbirds 
sparrowing 
through the thorny brush, the hisses 
of squirrels speaking to one another. 
These noises, ebbing and flowing with 
the wind, ceased when a hawk flew 
overhead and after a six-point buck 
strode boldly through the valley.
I missed the third squirrel’s 
shoulder, hitting the middle of his 
torso. He ran behind a tree and bled 
there for half an hour. I climbed 
down out of the stand and flushed 
him further into the woods where he 
ran onto a log at the crest of a small 
hillock and lay there watching me. 
I walked up, carefully took a sitting 
position fifteen feet away, speaking 
gently aloud to the squirrel, and then 
shot. Without the elevated view of 
the tree stand, I couldn’t see where 
he landed, and, despite a systematic 
search, couldn’t recover his body. 
I couldn’t use the second squirrel 
either. I had waited too long, several 
hours, to field-dress, and after too 
much time cooling, the meat was no 
good. I felt terrible, irresponsible and 
reckless. Still, I would eat what I had 
butchered the night before


**Title: EATING MEAT**
**Page number(s): 41**

A 
stew is only as good as its 
foundations. I seared my squirrel, 
deglazed the pan, and then braised the 
meat in chicken stock. After nearly 
three hours I put in caramelized carrots 
and squash, and potatoes, celery and 
barley. I pulled out the bones and 
removed the lid to cook down the 
base, adding pinches of rosemary and 
thyme. The kitchen smelled of grease, 
woody herbs, and fermented fruit. I 
served my housemates and each of us 
went back for more. 

When we put away our dishes, 
there remained the lava-pink heart 
and lungs, still tied to each other. I 
prepared a frying pan and slapped the 
tight bundle on top of sizzling butter, 
coating each side with brown sugar as 
it cooked. A cut through the muscle 
and lung split the organs into two 
equal parts. Travis took one half on 
the end of a fork, and I took the other. 
It tasted like a cross between French 
toast and kidneys. 

The next time I prepared meat 
for dinner, a few weeks later, it was 
venison that Joe had shot that season. 
Uncooked deer, unlike squirrel (or 
any other meat I’ve ever seen), carries 
a dark purple color and has the 
taste of root vegetables. I marinated 
the venison cutlets in whiskey and 
mustard and grilled them outside in 
the cold December night. No steak 
or chop has ever tasted so good and 
hearty to me as that deer, flavorful, 
tender, and lean.
As I smeared the venison with 
marinade, I thought of Jackson 
Landers, the Virginian author of 
The Beginner’s Guide to Deer Hunting for 
Food, who, before he started hunting, 
would not touch raw meat. Landers, 
33, was raised a vegetarian but began 
eating meat as an adult. He would 
manipulate his raw meat from a 
distance with utensils. “I decided,” 
Landers explained, “that if I couldn’t 
handle the reality of this meat, I 
should confront where the meat was 
coming from.” So he decided to hunt, 
kill, butcher, and eat a deer. 

Landers spent years educating 
himself from college studies and 
textbooks about the natural history 
of deer and firearms. He spent 
hours watching the animals and 
shot hundreds of rounds a week in 
practice. He now hunts all his meat. 
With his bare hands, Landers has 
butchered armadillo, an animal that 
carries leprosy.


**Page number(s): 42**

As soon as he asked, in July 2009 
on his blog “The Locavore Hunter,” 
if readers were interested in attending 
a workshop class on locavore hunting, 
Landers became the Northeast’s de-
facto spokesperson for environmental 
and food-focused hunting. Since then 
Landers has taught New Yorkers how 
to cook Canada geese culled from 
Brooklyn’s Prospect Park and has 
written a second book, Eating Aliens, 
which advocates fighting invasive 
species by consuming them. 

When I spoke with him over 
the phone late one night, he had just 
ended a long day stalking boar in 
Texas hill country. Landers told me 
that, other than a school in Texas 
(that he was currently visiting) whose 
curriculum was modeled after his 
own, he knew of no other hunter’s 
science and butchery courses besides 
his own. The Virginian estimated that 
he has taught 150 to 300 people the 
basics of locavore hunting over the 
last three years—and his book is now 
reaching thousands more.
Landers wrote Deer Hunting for 
Food for the same kind of people 
who enrolled in his courses, educated 
people largely between the ages of 
25 and 45, most coming from the 
metropolitan areas around New York 
City and Washington, DC. Landers 
taught several former vegetarians and 
even a practicing vegan who makes 
exceptions for wild game, he told me. 
Nelson Lafon, Deer Project 
Coordinator 
with 
the 
Virginia 
Department of Game and Inland 
Fisheries, welcomes the new hunters. 
Virginia and the Northeast need them, 
he told me, because the region has 
become severely overpopulated with 
whitetail deer. The deer population, 
which has been increasing for seventy 
years, surpassed a healthy size in the 
1990s, just as numbers of hunters 
began decreasing nationwide, Lafon 
explained. This season the state issued 
twenty percent fewer hunting licenses 
than it had fifteen years ago. The deer 
are starving, competing for food in 
populated areas and, no longer car-
shy, causing fatal accidents.
Lafon would like to see hunters 
take to the wooded pockets of semi-
urban communities. Archery presents 
less danger in close quarters, and 
Lafon thinks urbanites could use 
bows in their own backyards. I asked 
him what the least amount of land 
is on which a person can hunt deer. 
“I hate to say there is a minimum, 
especially if the hunter works with 
neighbors,” he told me. Lafon also 
told me that he does not fear over-
hunting because the state ultimately 
controls both the number of licenses 
distributed and the number of deer 
permitted per license each season. In 
the last two decades both Virginians 
and New Yorkers have been taking 
between 200,000 and 250,000 deer 
per state per season—and, if Lafon 
is right, they could be taking perhaps 
thousands more. Two good-sized deer 
could yield more than 150 pounds of 
venison combined, enough to last a 
single locavore hunter a year. 

When I took to the woods again, 
this time for deer, I felt good knowing 
that it served an ecological purpose—
and that I might come away with 
enough meat for months. 


**Title: THE HUNT**

T
he second Sunday in December 
was the coldest in weeks, staying 
resolutely below freezing for most of 
the day. 

From my perch thirty feet up in 
a hardwood I could see nearly two 
hundred yards through bare tree 
trunks. The land is crumpled there, 
run through with ridges that parallel 
the Hudson. A long swamp lies about 
a mile and a half west of the river. Joe 
calls the land that cups it “the bowl,” 
and he has peppered its rim with tree 
stands. He maintains the grounds for 
the Catholic convent that owns the 
swath of land, which is two miles 
south of my family’s place. In the 
dark forest of 6 a.m., when moonlight 
touched branches and frosted grasses, 
I climbed a tall oak, settling onto a 
wooden platform nailed across an 
elbow in the tree. A hoot owl cooed 
the same meter over and over, and 
after about an hour the sun rose 
out over the mountain, sending 
fingerprints of warmth through the 
full body camouflage suit Joe had 
leant me. I cradled one of his rifles—
the smallest caliber that you can use to 
hunt deer—and tried not to fall asleep 
and off my perch. I watched for deer 
to cross from the swamp to the high 
ground covered in pines and leafless 
oaks that lay behind me. 

The deer 
population, which 
has been increasing 
for seventy 
years, surpassed 
a healthy size in 
the 1990s. The 
deer are starving, 
competing for food 
in populated areas 
and, no longer car-
shy, causing fatal 
accidents.



**A FINE KETTLE OF FISH**
**Author: Cathy Huang**
**Page number(s): 44-45**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A
t the Maritime Aquarium 
in 
Norwalk, 
Connecticut, 
a work crew is preparing 
a large, empty room for new shark 
tanks and sea urchin habitats with 
state-of-the-art 
filtration 
systems. 
They’ve been told to be unobtrusive, 
so the workers speak softly and crane 
operators silently ease thousand-
pound slabs of concrete into position. 
Several hundred people still visit the 
aquarium each day, and the sounds of 
heavy machinery in the background 
wouldn’t be ideal for a leisurely family 
outing.


“We 
spent 
the 
last 
decade expanding our educational 
programming and varieties of species. 
It’s time our facilities get a face-lift, 
too,” said Dave Sigworth, a spokesman 
for the Maritime Aquarium. During 
his fourteen years working there, he 
has witnessed the aquarium become 
a popular destination for families 
touring New England. There are 
about 85,000 people in Norwalk, 
but the aquarium now welcomes 
almost half a million visitors a year. 
At a September celebration of the 
launch of the $4 million renovation 
project, a shoal of notable people—
Norwalk 
Mayor 
Richard 
Mocci, 
aquarium president Jennifer Herring, 
U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal, 
and Robert Forrester, president of 
Newman’s Own Foundation—floated 
toy sharks in the old tanks. 


“The event symbolized how 
much we can give to visitors locally 
and to Connecticut,” Sigworth said. 
The aquarium’s history is a remarkable 
success story. Local governments and 
nonprofit organizations invested in a 
community and created a major center 
of economic activity, all while teaching 
New England’s children about the 
ecology of the Long Island Sound. 
The blocks around the aquarium, 
once run down and largely derelict, 
are now the most valuable commercial 
real estate in the city. But the aquarium 
has sailed only recently from rougher 
waters. 


I
’d always heard that [the Aquarium] 
wasn’t pulling in much money back 
in the early nineties, but they have 
to be making lots of money now,” 
says Donna Rey, a third-generation 
Norwalk resident. “I mean, I bring my 
two kids here every weekend. They’re 
nuts about the ray eels.” Moray eels, or 
ray eels for short, are spineless, with 
dinosaur faces attached to flattened, 
finless bodies.


Her two toddlers tug at the 
fabric of her pants, their eyes flitting 
ceaselessly toward the puffer fish 
floating in a central glass column. One 
launches his body into an imitation of 
an orca whale, and his brother waves 
his arms to mimic ocean tides. 


Rey and her husband were both 
raised in Norwalk, and she remembers 
the aquarium’s opening in July 1988, 
back when it was called simply “The 
Maritime Center.”


A mere three months after it 
opened, the center was mired in “a 
fiscal and financial crisis,” according 
to the city’s finance director then. The 
problem was that not enough people 
were coming to the aquarium.


When city officials approved 
proposals to build the seventy 
thousand square-foot museum and 
aquarium in old factory buildings, they 
hoped visitors would return to a once 
thriving and eclectic part of town, an 
area known as the Washington Strip. 
Population drift had left the area 
deserted and the economy crippled. 
The 
proposed 
Maritime 
Center 
appeared to fuse educational and 
environmental objectives with the 
potential to make money. Biologists 
liked the idea of teaching people 
about flora and fauna in the Long 
Island Sound, while economists and 
city planners nodded at the proposed 
center’s family appeal.


Families 
didn’t 
come, 
though, and as sponsors began to 
lose hope that the center would 
become financially self-sustaining, 
the city government stepped in and 
offered the Maritime Center a $30 
million advance to cover maintenance 
costs and, most importantly, start 
advertising. It was a big gamble.


Pete Marnane, who became 
president a few years later, proposed 
a name change. He believed the 
aquarium should be able to attract 25 
million visitors in five decades, but 
he thought that the “The Maritime 
Center” was too humdrum, not a 
name that would prompt families to 
pull off the Connecticut Turnpike, the 
only major highway nearby. Marnane 
wanted his facility to be a destination 
that parents would plan afternoons 
around. He wanted his aquarium to be 
called an aquarium.  


“I wanted to make sure we were 
planning ahead,” he said. His staff 
spent months surveying visitors, 
until they convinced aquarium board 
members that changing one word 
would bring in 10 percent more 
visitors. The name changed in April 
1996. In the following year visitors to 
the new “Maritime Aquarium” more 
than doubled.


Marnane spent the remainder of 
his tenure addressing every funding 
request, every remodeling initiative, 
every addition to the aquarium, and 
every new crustacean tank with his 
characteristic diligence. “Pete turned 
things around for us. Everyone knew 
that, and none of us wanted him to 
leave the aquarium,” Sigworth said. 
Eventually, 
Marnane 
stepped 
down. He purchased a small Tudor 
house and quietly raised his family, 
making 
occasional 
appearances 
at the annual Norwalk Memorial 
and 
Independence 
Day 
Parades 
and business ribbon-cuttings. He 
purchased a tank and filter for his 
home, but never got around to buying 
any fish to fill it. 


T
he Sound is a lot like Vegas,” 
Sigworth said. “What happens 
there, and comes by way of the 
rivers, stays there. And we become 
responsible for taking care of it.” 
The Long Island Sound loses 
several of its unique species every 
year 
to 
overfishing 
water 
pollution. The Maritime Aquarium 
finds no shortage of conservation 
topics to inspire its in-house and off-
site programming, serving 150,000 
students in Connecticut each year. In 
2002, it unveiled two lab classrooms 
on the third floor. Colorful diagrams 
of crustacean life cycles span three 
walls, and a long stretch of sinks, tubs, 
and tanks lines the fourth. As students 
rinse their hands after playing with 
turtles or poking at sea cucumbers, 
they can look out the south-facing 
window at the Norwalk River, perhaps 
at the very place where biologists 
gathered the specimens for that day’s 
workshop. 


The aquarium’s economic impact 
eventually caught up to its educational 
outreach. Today, the area around the 
aquarium boasts a swanky Italian 
ristorante and several smaller shops 
offering stationery and fashions by 
local and national designers.


Ike Litovsky waits tables at 
O’Neill’s, a pub a few blocks away 
from the aquarium. Between his lunch 
and dinner shifts, Litovsky visits the 
aquarium and takes in an occasional 
IMAX matinee.


Many of the guests at O’Neill’s 
have just visited the aquarium, 
Litovsky said. “I tell them we offer 
fresh cod that’s been dropped off to 
us that morning by harbor fishermen, 
but some people give me this funny 
look like, ‘I just saw those happily 
swimming around with their marine 
friends; no way—get me a steak.’ 
Others go crazy and get seafood 
platters.” 


Litovsky wouldn’t mind moving 
a few blocks for work. “I’d love to 
work for them,” he said. “This town, 
this restaurant, needs that aquarium.” 
The aquarium is looking for “people 
who get what works here,” he added. 
“I think they just really want people 
who care enough to stick around. Sign 
me up.”


Thirty-six 
percent 
of 
aquarium’s approximately 475,000 
visitors each year come from out of 
the state. As it continues to expand, 
the aquarium is set to meet Manarne’s 
target of 25 million visitors in five 
decades. Over the last two decades, 
various donors have sunk nearly $335 
million into the aquarium, which 
generates an estimated $42 million of 
economic activity in the city every year. 
The current executive board includes 
state councilmen and public servants 
of surrounding municipalities. 


The Maritime Aquarium brought 
new life to the surrounding district. 
Now, as the quieter winter season 
drags on, the city will return the favor 
with new underwater homes for the 
aquarium’s toothiest denizens.


**Bagging a Whitetail**
**Author: Juliana Hanle**
**Page number(s): 43**

Bagging 
a 
whitetail 
takes 
thorough knowledge of the animal. 
Joe places his tree stands by bedding 
areas or above well-used tracks. He 
learns the routines and habits of 
specific animals. On this Sunday in 
November, the deer, he told me, 
should have spent the night hunkered 
down seeking warmth in the valleys 
and by the inland bodies of water, 
moving upland with dawn for browse. 
We had to be in position before the 
deer entered the woods about us.


Joe, one of his nephews, and I 
ripped through the forest on ATVs, 
over logs and steep hillsides, and then 
tramped through the unevenly frozen 
swamp to our posts. By sunrise the 
three of us were high in the branches, 
each about two hundred yards away 
from the other two.


I ran through Joe’s words of 
advice in my head. Even the best 
book, I realized, can’t replace the field 
presence of a man standing by your 
side who knows his gun, the beast, 
and the terrain. New hunters need to 
find experienced guides.


Lafon, who learned to hunt 
from his father, had told me that he 
has seen the demand for mentors 
from aspiring hunters. “It’s almost 
like you need a match system, and 
we’ve actually thought about that,” 
he said. Lafon would like to attach 
urbanized locavores to traditional 
hunters, education flowing both 
ways, 
locavorism 
exchanged 
for 
hunting skills. He has begun talking 
with Landers about launching a 
state-sponsored version of Landers’ 
locavore hunting course, which was 
offered for the last time this fall. 
Lafon thinks Landers would make a 
good ambassador for both locavores 
and hunters. It is in Landers’s favor, 
Lafon said, that Landers is a Virginian. 
The co-education Lafon hopes for is 
tied, just as locavorism is, to place 
identity. After all, I think as I wait in 
the predawn, Joe wouldn’t have taken 
me under his wing if I hadn’t been a 
part of West Park.


My tree grew at the edge of 
the hardwoods. Beyond this margin, 
which runs from east to west for a 
several miles, softwood saplings spring 
up from thick frozen grasses where 
loggers had sliced off the forest a few 
years earlier. Deer like these margin 
areas. I was perfectly placed.


As the morning progressed, I 
heard a few songbirds and squirrels, 
and some sporadic gunshots from 
across the bowl, but none of the soft, 
crisp rustles that characterize a deer’s 
delicate browsing pace. After six hours 
spent watching the sun follow the 
moon across the sky, I had not seen a 
single deer and had not spent a single 
bullet (other than the one I dropped 
from the tree stand in the dark, along 
with my hat). None of us had. 


Two days later, I was sitting 
by Union Square in Manhattan 
with John Durant, one of Lander’s 
former 
students, 
28-year-old 
former management consultant who 
is writing a manual for living like a 
modern hunter-gatherer. Durant had 
shot his first deer three weeks earlier. 
It was a yearling, yielding about thirty-
five pounds of venison. It had been 
a clean shot and the beast was dead 
within ten seconds. Durant had been 
delicate at first in slicing it open—but 
soon realized his hands needed to get 
dirty to get the job done. The beast 
was warm and the air cold, Durant 
said. It had been the same with my 
squirrel. Warm organs do not feel like 
meat. Durant said that he expected the 
venison would last him a few months 
into the new year. 


Over coffee, Durant and I 
traded stories. We laughed at how the 
experienced hunters had teased him 
for being so green, and for his small 
deer. He leaned forward to talk about 
holistic solutions to the physical and 
ethical problems of modern life. I told 
him all that I had learned through my 
own education and research. Hunting 
is a tradition and knowledge should be 
shared.


Young 
people 
who 
looked 
like New York University students 
sat at the tables around us. I don’t 
know how we sounded to them, or 
if they were planning to try venison 
themselves anytime soon. Suddenly, 
it felt important for me to know how 
serious I was about what I had done—
and would do. 


I had committed myself to 
hunting in the moment when I worked 
through my first squirrel’s death. I had 
seen, riding behind Joe on his ATV as 
he yelled about loggers clearing the 
forest, that his care for the land was 
as genuine as any naturalist’s. Between 
two people who care so much, there 
is an opportunity for a conversation 
that crosses political and cultural 
boundaries.


Whatever Durant, I, and others 
like us become will likely remain a 
small subculture. Durant will reach 
into the freezer chest in his Manhattan 
apartment, I’ll return to West Park for 
more squirrels this spring, and friends 
will eat our meals. Locavore hunters 
could have, as Landers said, an impact 
far larger than our numbers might 
suggest. 


Joe had told me that I could think 
of hunting as going out to the garden 
to pull carrots. But the two are not the 
same. In hunting, you put yourself 
behind another’s eyes—and it seems 
to me that we could use this more 
complete, and more complicated, 
perspective.


If you take to hunting, give me 
a call. We’ll invite everyone we know 
to dinner. 



**Title: ENDNOTE**
**Author: Aaron Gertler**
**Page number(s): 46-47**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
First, a chronology of my athletic 
career:
1997: At the age of five, I set 
out to become a professional wrestler 
and superhero. Though I dominate 
the 37-pound circuit for a while, I 
develop no powers. Also, I discover 
professional wrestlers fake it.

1998: Tee-ball is much harder 
than it looks.

1999-2006: I sit inside my house 
and read, avoiding sunlight if possible.

2007-2009: For three years, I try 
to make the varsity soccer team and 
be a coordinated person girls will like. 
Alas, no.

2010: My new goal, as a senior in 
high school, is to run five kilometers 
at a reasonable pace without Death 
casting her cold shadow over my pale, 
skinny, ill-clad body. But Delaware 
has a lot of hills. A LOT OF HILLS. 
I end the cross-country season five-
foot-eleven and 125 pounds with ten 
black toenails.

That autumn, I affixed a chin-up 
bar to my door, hoping to attach a 
few scraps of muscle to my skeleton. 
With push-ups and crunches and curls 
and crunches and more crunches, 
I packed on more tone than the 
average Kenyan marathoner, but I still 
wasn’t in underwear model territory. 
Desperate, I decided to Bing “how to 
build muscle” and started to read. 
“Food! I forgot about eating 
food!”

The sites that came up were full 
of helpful advice. By February, I’d 
settled into a rhythm: eat, work out 
(biceps, triceps, biceps, triceps, biceps, 
biceps), 
eat, 
read 
Bodybuilding.
com, sleep, repeat. I was better at 
the reading part than the others. My 
epiphanies multiplied. I realized I had 
muscles in my legs, too. I learned that 
I was using my spine to lift.

Before long, I was a genuine 
expert on weightlifting. I was doing 
thoughtful, 
smooth, 
full-body 
workouts every few days and eating 
through half the family grocery 
budget (we have three kids and a 
spoiled cat). Then came the move to 
Yale. A gym in the basement! More 
food than I could eat! And, of course, 
the Yale Powerlifters.

By mid-September I was hanging 
out with people who could squat 
a barbell weighing as much as me 
on either end. I learned more in a 
month of practice than I had in a 
year of watching people lift things on 
YouTube (unexpectedly engrossing, if 
you’ve never tried it). I knew enough 
now to be concerned for the other 
lifters at Payne-Whitney. Picking up 
heavy things is a lot like taming lions 
or walking tightropes—you won’t 
look cool until you do it properly, and 
doing it any other way will probably 
get you hurt. 

The average male training plan 
seems to devote two days each to 
arms and chest and three to abs—the 
only muscle group that really doesn’t 
get any larger on an average human. 
Or, as Olympic weightlifting champ 
Alison James ’12 said, “So many guys 
apparently think it’s attractive to have 
an unnaturally inflated chest and arms 
that sits on top of a pair of chicken 
legs.” 

The average female training 
plan involves jogging, and maybe 
some breaks for combination squat-
curl-lateral raises with ten-pound 
dumbbells, preferably while standing 
on an exercise ball, giving the wall 
mirrors a death stare, and trying not 
to breathe, lest she grunts. The most 
common male movement, conversely, 
is the “bicep jerk”—like a curl, but 
of the entire body, and with twice the 
weight he knows he can handle.  

I soon left the team over a 
difference in weightlifting philosophy.
The Powerlifters’ goal is to be as 
strong as possible. Buffness is only a 
secondary concern. As their captain 
told the News, “Why am I going to care 
about looking strong, if I’m not going 
to be strong?” I take a different view. 
Like 90 percent of Yale gymgoers, I 
exercise mainly for the sake of the 
opposite sex (or, given lack of success 
on that front, mirrors). I wanted to 
go from beanpole to bruiser—stick 
to brick—geek to freak. Bench-
pressing three hundred pounds held 
no inherent appeal for me.  

Since then, I’ve taken up the 
most 
efficient 
possible 
weight-
training system: a few carefully chosen 
exercises, ninety seconds apiece, with 
a weight heavy enough to drive my 
muscles past pain into total shutdown. 
Bodybuilding pioneer Arthur Jones 
summed up this system’s philosophy: 
“If you’ve never vomited from doing 
a set of bicep curls, then you’ve never 
experienced outright hard work.”

The first few workouts were the 
closest I’ve gotten to an out-of-body 
experience, but my once-infantile pain 
tolerance is creeping upward. You 
could say I’ve traded my irony for 
iron, but that still sounds ironic, so I’ll 
stop before I drop a joke on my foot 
or something. From now on, I’ll just 
keep to my new plan and lift. 

So if you’re ever passing through 
the basement of Timothy Dwight 
and hear what sounds like a werewolf 
transforming, it’s just me on the leg 
press, getting ready for my next tête-
à-tête with my favorite mirror. And of 
course, working toward my latest goal:
2012: Just be a decent person 
without letting life get me down. Also, 
become an underwear model.


Katharine Konietzko
TNJ
Aaron Gertler is a freshman 
in Timothy Dwight College 
who’s actually very serious 
about this stuff. If you have 
any questions about exercise 
or sports nutrition, he’s 
available at aaron.gertler@
yale.edu.


**Title: JOSH PLAUT
1969 - 2011**
**Author: JOSH PLAUT’S FRIENDS AND COLLEAGUES**
**Page number(s): 48**

J
oshua Andrew Plaut – or Josh Plaut, as he was known to his friends and in his 
byline – came to Yale as a freshman in Timothy Dwight College in 1987.

Back then, The New Journal was a well-established alternative to the News or the 
relatively new Yale Herald. Although we composed our articles on our clunky, first 
generation Apple Macs, we didn’t have desktop publishing and  would send our small 
floppy disks to a printer, getting back rolls of shiny printed columns that we would 
painstakingly paste onto graph paper. Over one sleepless weekend, the whole staff 
would gather at a local architectural office, proof reading every article and cutting 
typos out of the pages with razor blades. It seemed like Steely Dan was always playing 
on a boom box, and there was a seemingly bottomless box of Entenmann’s chocolate 
chip cookies and too much Diet Coke lying around on the tables. Nobody had cell 
phones, so it was hard for our roommates or friends to reach us.

Josh, a lacrosse player from Summit, N.J. with a feisty mind and a sharp wit, 
had all the elements of a good writer: curiosity about worlds he was not a part of, 
discipline and determination, and many lovely turns of phrase.

One of his first major features for The New Journal was “Tattoo Uncovered” in 
April 1989, a portrait of several New Haven tattoo artists and their clients. In the first 
paragraph, he described a tattoo artist named Spider Webb inscribing a tiger head on 
a woman’s shoulder. “Staccato bursts from the gun drown out the strains of Poison’s 
‘Fallen Angel’ pouring out of a color television set,” Josh wrote.

His senior year, Josh became a managing editor of The New Journal. He always 
kept us laughing during ridiculous all-night editing sessions where we labored for 
hours over one paragraph that we had to get just right. He went on snack runs to 
WaWa’s at 2 a.m. He wrote many of the best headlines.

And he rescued a few stories in desperate need of an injection of his humor. He 
also skewered pretention and gave blunt, though never painful, criticism.

After college, Josh did a brief stint at a Scholastic magazine before going on to 
make news as a spokesman for the Department of Education. In his 30s, he went to 
law school at Fordham and Columbia, and in law firm jobs he was known as a talented 
writer. He was very proud when a sentence from one of his briefs was quoted in a 
judge’s decision. And in emails to friends, he occasionally corrected what he regarded 
as imprecision or exaggeration.

Josh was a wonderful writer and a dear friend. He loved The New Journal. He was 
proud of its continuing excellence and a loyal donor. We will miss him.

SUBMITTED BY JOSH PLAUT’S FRIENDS AND COLLEAGUES

