Publication date: February 10, 1995
Volume: 27
Issue number: 4


**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Christina Lung
- Editor-in-Chief: Jay Porter
- Managing Editors: David Gerber, Suzanne Kim
- Designer: Kate Schuler
- Production Manager: Ted Gesing
- Photography Editor: Brendan Kommer
- Contributing Editor: Joshua Civin
- Associate Publishers: Min Chen, Horling Wong
- Associate Editor: Katherine Bell
- Research Director: Melissa Moskof
- Associate Production Manager: Gabriel Snyder
- Circulation and Subscription Manager: Audrey Leibovich


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- Letters about this Issue
- Points of Departure
- Between the Yales: Of Laura Ashley and Latex - Robin Kemper
- John Boswell: The lion's Last Roar - Jay Porter
- Where They Don't Call It AIDS - Karen Jacobson
- At Home with AIDS - Ted Gesing
- Positively Negative - Melissa Moskof
- When Doctors Can't Cure - David Gerber
- Writing the Virus - Suzanne Kim
- Managing AIDS, Managing Difference - Katherine Bell
- Playing the Numbers Game? - Ann Sledge
- Afterthought: Our AIDS Inheritance - Carra Hood


**Title: Letters about this Issue**
**Author:  Various**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Page number(s): 5**


**Title: Between the Yales: Of Laura Ashley and Latex**
**Author: Robin Kemper**
**Page number(s): 6**



**Title: John Boswell: The lion's Last Roar**
**Author: Jay Porter**
**Page number(s): 8**


**Title: Where They Don't Call It AIDS**
**Author: Karen Jacobson**
**Page number(s): 9**

Families find relief at Yale-New Haven's Pediatric AIDS Ward.


**Title: At Home with AIDS**
**Author: Ted Gesing**
**Page number(s): 13**

New Haven's homeless HIV-positive population finds refuge in transitional housing.


**Title: Positively Negative**
**Author: Melissa Moskof**
**Page number(s): 16**

Alvin Novick's good news changes his view of the uninfected.


**Title: When Doctors Can't Cure**
**Author: David Gerber**
**Page number(s): 20**

The virus still eludes researchers, but team medicine has pushed treatment even further.


**Title: Writing the Virus**
**Author: Suzanne Kim**
**Page number(s): 29**

Humanities scholars search for the meaning in metaphor.


**Title: Managing AIDS, Managing Difference**
**Author: Katherine Bell**
**Page number(s): 32**

New Haven agencies adapt to the changing face of an epidemic.


**Title: Playing the Numbers Game?**
**Author: Ann Sledge**
**Page number(s): 35**

Is projecting HIV infection statistics onto Yale a plausible guess at our AIDS population.


**Title: Afterthought: Our AIDS Inheritance**
**Author: Carra Hood**
**Page number(s): 36**



**Title: Letter to the Editor Regarding "Trailing Behind"**
**Author: Nancy Bostwick, Executive Director, The Farmington Canal Rail to Trail Association Board of Directors**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
To the Editor: 
The Farmington Canal Rail to Trail 
Association (FCRTA) is extremely concerned 
about the negativity of the article "Trailing 
Behind" (TN], December 2, 1994). The 
article not only had a critical and misleading 
tone but. was filled with factual mistakes as 
well. 

Some of the incorrect information in this 
article includes: 
1. The title itself. This starts the article in 
a very negative way. "Trailing Behind" 
insinuates that the project is somehow 
bogged down. In fact, the Farmington Canal 
Trail is closer to completion than any 
greenway project in Connecticut. The 
Cheshire portion is completed, Hamden's 
northern section is under construction, 25 
miles of the trail are currently being designed 
in norther Connecticut, and New Haven has 
purchased the land and set aside money for 
development. 
2. "A glance at the list of board members 
on FCRTA ... shows that seven reside in 
New Haven. The others come from exclusive 
suburbs." The seven board members who 
reside in New Haven represent one-third of 
the Board. We serve as advocates for the Trail 
in the three communities of New Haven, 
Hamden and Cheshire. The FCRTA board 
reflects this as one-third of our board 
members live in New Haven. 
3. "Since FCRTA has been the main 
lobbying and fundraising force, it will be its 
board's money and ideas that will shape the 
trail." The FCRTA has been a major 
advocate of this project but has never held 
the purse strings. Building a rail-trail costs 
millions of dollars. This project has received 
the majority of funding from the Federal 
Department of Transportation with lesser 
amounts from the State of Connecticut, and 
even 
smaller 
amounts 
from 
local 
municipalities. 
4. "FCRTA's brochure clearly spells out 
its utopian vision ... this vision seems 
unrealistic and niive." If so, then the 7,000 
miles of rail-trail already existing across the 
nation, many traveling through equally 
diverse and more urban communities, suffer 
from the same niivete. 
5. Quote from Nancy Alderman that the 
4 
"Forestry School students' work was not 
really helpful-except as a good case study." 
This statement was made in response to a 
particular question about the management 
plan and not on their work as a whole. 
6. "Balmori's idea for the park tran-
scends the somewhat limited vision of the 
FCRTA ... "The FCRTA commissioned 
Diana Balmori to prepare the plan for the 
New Haven section of the trail. Her plan is 
therefore not at variance with any FCRTA 
plan but is the FCRTA plan. 
7 .. "City officials have begun work on a 
grant ·proposal co obtain federal funding for 
the construction of the trail, but the FCRTA 
paved the way from the city to act and has 
no intention of relinquishing control of the 
project." It has always been the role of the 
FCRTA to champion this linear park but the 
local municipalities are. in total control. 
8. "Others concerned with impFoving 
general living conditions suggested using the 
land for purposes other than a park-
building houses . .. or stores." Because an · 
AT&T cable lies under the property, no 
buildings can be constructed on the trail. 
Also, federal money for the Farmington 
Canal trail has come through the Depart-
ment of Transportation Enhancement Fund. 
This money has been set aside for projects 
such as these and in no way takes money 
away from or prevents the city from obtain-
ing other sources of funding for urban 
development projects. In fact, the project 
may increase the chances of obtaining other 
development money. 

From the beginning, the FCRTA has had 
dialogues with the neighborhoods in New 
Haven and Hamden through which this trail 
travels. The Association has always had an 
open-door policy to anyone and any idea 
that has been presented. 
-Nancy Bostwick, Executive Director 
Association Board of Directors 

THE EDITOR REPLIES: Although wt appreciate 
the conctrns of the Farmington Rail to Trail 
Association board, we stand by the facts and 
opinions expressed in Kau Schuler s article. 
That the project fag; well behind is undeniable; 
Ms. Schuler's other observations and criticism 
stem from issues raised by numer(}US 
professionals and concerned citizem. In running 
the piece, we intended to increase discussion of a 
project little-known to tht Yale community. ~ 
hope that the FCRTA and ali parties involved 
appreciate our goals: raising awareness and 
fostering comtructive criticism. 


**Title: Letter to the Editor Regarding "Yalies Who Stay"**
**Author: Melanie A. Ginter DC '78, '81 M.S., President of the Yale Club of New Haven**

I am writing to correct some information 
in Brooke Conti's article, "Yalies Who Stay" 
(TN], October 14). There is, in fact, a 
comprehensive database of Yalies who stay 
and thrive in the New Haven area. Each 
September, the Yale Club of New Haven 
writes to the 8,000 or so area alumni and 
invites them to join. Typically, about 1,000 
join each year. 

Th.e Yale Club provides a range of 
opportunities for alumni and friends of Yale 
to meet, enjoy each other's. company, and 
reconnect to Yale. For example, we sponsor a 
monthly luncheon meeting with a speaker. 
Our first speaker this year was Mayor John 
DeStefano. 

Our events raise scholarship funds as well 
as provide a community for those interested 
in Yale. This year, we are supporting 62 local 
area students at Yale, including ten graduate 
students. We are also provide funding for 
FOCUS, a community service program for 
incoming Yale sophomores, and provide 
summer stipends for students involved in 
other community service projects. There are 
many opportunities for friendship and fun 
for those who are interested. 

The Yale Club of New Haven welcomes 
anyone with an interest in Yale as a member. 
-Melanie A. Ginter DC '78, '81 M.S. 
President of the Yale Club of New Haven 
The New Journal welcomes letters to the 
Editor. we reserve the right to edit for 
length.Pkase send mail to Box 3432, Yak 
Station, New Haven, CT 06520. Or call 
our office at 432-1957. 
THE NEw JouRNAL 


**Title: THIS (CONTINUED FROM COVER)**
**Author: JGP**
**Page number(s): 5**

T H I S 
(CONTINUED FROM COVER) Commons was dedicated in 1926 to the memory ofYale's dead in the Great 
War. Nathan Hale stands watch over Old Campus, bound at ankle and wrist. The Revolution and the 
Civil War occasioned the consecration of countless plaques and statues around campus. All of these 
men-and they are all men-serve as one more source for Old Yale pride, and rightly so. 

But we must find the courage to imagine a day after AIDS, a day when alumni like Larry Kramer and 
Paul Monette will be honored as generals in the war America was least prepared to fight, least willing to 
support, and slowest to win. Numbers carved in marble will chart the spread of AIDS in this country and 
in the world. A place will be set aside for fallen Yale professors as well as for the Yale researchers whose 
contributions helped to defeat the virus. But the vaster sea of chiseled names will attest to the heavy toll 
of Yale men and women who studied, worked, loved, and finally died in the shadow of AIDS. 

Imagine such a monument. Imagine the end to AIDS that must occur before any memorial can be 
built. Indulge in the satisfying, if inappropriate, war metaphor for at least a moment. For if we can't take a 
moment to put aside the present-full of suffering and fear of the disease-and think of a future without 
AIDS, how can we continue to live with it? In the midst of research, care, activism, education, and 
writing about AIDS, we need the possibility of eventual relie( This kind of visualization doesn't require 
forgetting those who suffer from AIDS; quite theopposite, it means thinking about the need to 
remember them forever. 

This image has been in my mind over the months of planning this year's special issue. It began with 
the certain knowledge that Yale has AIDS: not as an abstract idea, but as a horrible physical presence in 
the bodies of students, professo_rs, and alumni. The 11 stories that fill this issue strive to approach AIDS 
not from a lofty ivory-tower remove, but from an involved and personal perspective. Through the process 
of shaping this issue, I arrived at a place of hope that allows me to imagine attending the dedication of a 
memorial like the one I just described. Or at least to imagine a place for my name on such a memorial if 
one day it belongs there. 

Yale publications, including this one, have long pointed out the face of AIDS in the New Haven 
community. Although this has played an important role in Yale's contribution to the fight against the 
disease, by 1995 such coverage seems a little too comfortably distant. We believe in the importance of 
looking at AIDS issues in New Haven, but from the earliest discussions about the issue we stressed the 
need to focus on Yale. On campuses across the country, there are openly HIV-positive students and 
faculty. Would an HIV-positive Yale student come forward to be interviewed, even anonymously, to prove 
to the rest of the university that AIDS does happen here? We quickly scrapped the idea as exploitative, but 
retained a commitment to control the urge to locate AIDS elsewhere, anywhere but here. 

Like wars, epidemics can end, although bitterly and after years of loss. Researchers are closing in on 
the virus itself, doctors are learning how better to treat its complications, and scholars in the humanities 
are examining its ramifications in literature and culture. But even as we dream of monuments and talk of 
the end of the war against AIDS, we must face the fact that whether or not we know their faces, our 
friends and mentors here will be among those lost to the disease in the mean time. 

This issue is dedicated to the hope of an end, a day when the names and histories of all AIDS veterans 
will be restored, mourned, remembered, and celebrated with the rest ofYale's war dead. 
-]GP 
FEBRUARY 10, 1995 


**Title: Safer-Sex Soft Sell**
**Author: Elian Kith**
**Page number(s): 6**

Safer-Sex Soft Sell 
The question concerns every aspiring 
propagandist: how to clothe the 
distasteful, the frightening-or worse, the 
didactic-with a whimsy and a novelty 
that will lull the masses into submission? 
Solution: a quirky double entendre. 
Presidential and evangelical hopefuls 
would do well to heed the current 
proliferation of AIDS pamphleteering. 
The material focuses on a simpler message 
than the complexity of the epidemic 
might suggest. Its producers have chosen 
wisely to take the rhetoric to its lowest 
level; after aJI, they must appeal to types 
who regularly spend their weeknights with 
Beavis and Butthead. The simple 
message-use a condom, or else-h_ardly 
ranks 
as 
entertaanang, 
let alone 
compelling. Cleverly, the campaign 
commands with a leering morbidity-
black humor transformed from art form to 
persuasive device. Take notice, future 
mind manipulators: sex and violence 
always get 'em. 

Visually, the AIDS ads are hardly 
original. The usual icon consists of a 
wrapped condom at a jaunty angle. The 
color schemes ooze comfort, omnipresent 
pastels evoking nurseries and child-like 
na·ivete. Uglier realities disappear with the 
suggestion of harmonious innocence. The 
lesson: superficial gloss still works 
wonders. 

Verbally, the slogans chime like the 
best ad copy. Bubble letters blurt orders in 
a voice dripping with suggestion. 
"Consider this a come on," sits poised 
above an orange condom. "Put one over 
on your partner tonight," floats over a 
purple one. Punny slogans get extra 
points: "Wrap with a friend. Shake, 
Rattle, and (Un)Roll." 
Likewise, "You're 
. 
, 
putung me on. 

Underground safer-sex tracts like 
Positively Aware, put out by the Test 
Positive Aware Network, aim to be a 
mainstream, entertaining "HIV 101." 
They certainly titillate with alternative 
ways to have fun without exchanging 
bodily fluids. Some slide just this side of 
kinky: blindfolding, body painting, 
computer sex, dirty dancing, ice cubes, 
S&M. Others offer more creative 
suggestions, such as: "Mummification-
gift wrap your partner, saving the best 
parts for last," or "Shrimping-sucking 
toes." While these may succeed by dint of 
their novelty alone, novice students of 
seduction might avoid less clever 
suggestions like "Sniffing-from perfumes 
to jock straps, smells can be erotic." Take 
notes, children. 

The true 
craft of anti-AIDS 
advertising lies in its most basic, most 
bantered slogan: "Practice Safer Sex." 
Simple, to the point, it nonetheless 
combines the best of evocative imagery 
and discrete coercion. The 
Consider Wrap 
ThisA 
WithA 
Come On. Friend. 
clever rhetoric performs 
what countless hours of 
phys-ed and piano teachers 
have yet to accomplish: it 
transforms discipline from a 
chore to an indulgence. 
If all else fajls, appeal to 
hedonism: practice moves 
from an exercise of will to 
an excuse for pleasure. 
6 
->--:: 
'~-
· 
,;: ~ .\ ' 
-: ~\.) 
I. t • ~ .. 
. \ (' .. 
-~ .:-



**Title: Dr. Altice: the Man, the Van, and the Greater Scheme**

Dr. Altice: the Man, the 
Van, and the Greater 
Scheme 
I have this impression of Yale Medical 
School's Dr. Rick Altice out sweeping the 
streets of a stricken city like a benevolent 
force of nature. I was almost relieved when 
he canceled the interview I had scheduled. 
"This man is an AIDS doctor," I'd thought 
to myself as I hurriedly left the office. "ln 
the great scheme of things his path should 
not be crossed by one as mundane as 
. .. 
mme. 

But evidently, Dr. Altice is aware of no 
such scheme. He invited me back, so I'm 
sitting in his office staring at a blood blister 
at the end of my thumb, like a bright red 
emergency button. I keep pushing it and 
waiting for something to happen. Three 
days ago a UHS nurse pressed a smoking 
Q-tip to the end of my thumb and we'd 
listened in mutual glee as my wart sizzled 
and popped like grease in the pan. I press 
the button one more time, and Dr. Altice 
steps halfway in the door. 

Rick Altice is as compact a man as ever 
there was. He seems to be of a greater 
density than the rest of us. His legs and 
arms are in perfect proportion with his 
torso. His features are meticulously 
arranged. Even his hair line bas receded 
evenly. This is a man, it occurs to me, to 
whom something as absurd as a wart would 
not happen. 

We shake hands in the doorway, and 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Bm Lumpkin**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
for the next five minutes I'm desperately 
trying to keep stride with a man at least six 
inches shorter than me. "The van is parked 
across the street," he shouts over his 
shoulder, referring to the "Community 
Health Van" in which we plan to spend the 
afternoon. 


The van is one of the many projects 
initiated by Dr. Altice in his quest to 
improve medical services for New Haven's 
most disadvantaged-people whom in Dr. 
Altice's words, "the system is not equipped 
nor willing to take care of." Actually a 
moderately sized RV with a door that 
sticks, the "van" follows New Haven's 
needle exchange van around the city two 
days a week. It parks near the "shooting 
galleries" and offers any takers free medical 
care, HIV testing and counseling, and 
social work services. They do a roaring 
business in condoms. The driver, a 
volunteer named Drew Cacuzza, points out 
that you can tell someone is going to ask 
for condoms when they approach with a 
sheepish smile. 


Embarrassment is not the only emotion 
elicited by the van's presence. Two or three 
times in a given day the medical staff will 
test someone for HIV. For people without 
the 
luxury 
of 
regular 
doctor's 
appointments, a chance visit to the van 
may mean grisly qiscoveries-discoveries 
which, in my idea of the scheme of things, 
have no place on the sun-splashed streets, 
where people sometimes laugh out loud. 


Rick Altice, thank God, has the 
courage to ignore my scheme. An African-
American woman has entered the van. Her 
fingers are covered with lusterless rings. 
Asked if she's been in prison, she says, "Yes, 
about 20 times." She's also been in the 
hospital six times with pneumonia. Dr. 
Altice ushers her into the back of the van 
where there's a miniature doctor's office. 
"Would you like an apple?" he asks. "Yes," 
she says. ''I'm starved." 
-Bm Lumpkin 
fEBRUARY 10, 1995 

**Title: Boswell: The Lion's Last Roar**
**Author: Jay Ponter**
**Page number(s): 8**

Many obituaries have been written fo.r John Boswell since his 
death at age 47 last Christmas Eve, and many eulogies read. I don't 
intend to write another; I did not know Professor Boswell well 
enough to catalogue his life's achievements or enumerate his many 
virtues. But as a gay man and as a Yale student, I have been doubly 
aware of Boswell's achievements. 


No scholar has done more than Boswell to cast light on the 
status of gay people throughout the sweep of Western history. With 
the publication of Christianity, Social Tolerance, and Homosexuality 
in 1980, he almost single-handedly convinced the academy that 
lesbian and gay studies could, should, and indeed must be pursued 
by serious historians. In last year's Same-Sec Unions in Premodern 
Europe be took an audacious argument and crafted a stunning 
scholarly work that goes to the heart of not only historical questions 
but current debates about gay rights as well. Its success reminds 
scholars that their work can have a powerful impact on the lives of 
everyday people far from the academy. 


Indeed, only a handful of Yale professors during my time here 
have received as much widespread public interest for a scholarly 
work-after all, not even Harold Bloom's mass-market The Mstern 
Canon made it into Doonesbury . And that comparison is vital: at a 
time when talk of "Western civilization" can seem like a code word 
for "reactionary retrenchment," Boswell's life and work are a crucial 
reminder for Yale and the wider world that progressive multicultural 
scholarship can and does rise even from studies of European 
antiquity. While virtually everyone knows about Boswell's work on 
homosexuals, fewer realize that his early work and much of his 
teaching at Yale focused on relations between Christians, Muslims, 
and Jews in the Middle Ages. And although his scholarly outlook 
was rooted in an essentialist philosophy (that sexuality reflects not a 
cultural construction but a trans-historical biological fact) he 
revealed the ways that various medieval societies could allow diverse 
people to transcend differences and make room for each other. In 
this way, as members of a society wracked by mutual intolerance, we 
all have a huge stake in Boswell's work. 


All of my understanding of the importance of Boswell the 
scholar is centered around my awe of his truly incredible 
personality. I had the chance to interview him for two stories I 
wrote for this magazine last school year. But it felt more like a 
relaxed tutorial than an interview. The subjects of instruction 
ranged widely, casually. Someho, he seemed a bit more than human, 
an unimaginably wise, warm, and witty angel. It's one thing to meet 
a genius, but quite another to be genuinely welcomed and put at 
ease by one of the great minds of one's time. 


So the interview fell away and a wonderful chat ensued, filling 
perhaps only 20 minutes of his busy November day but making an 
indelible mark on my memory. He had provided the only intelligent 
voice in a bizarre Harper$ Magazine symposium on university rules 
prohibiting student-professor sex, so I opened with those questions. 
He began with a highly-reasoned moral explanation of why such 
relationships were "a bad idea, not terrible, not like molesting your 
own children or something, but not well-advised," and continued 
by relating stories about the times students bad hit on him. (Who 
could blame them? Even though he was obviously ill at the time of 
our interview, he still possessed the handsome charm of the young 
scholar-rebel who smiles up from the back of his books.) 


He fleshed out the details of the story, mentioned in Harper's, of 
the gorgeous jock who wandered into his office hours to chat one 
cool fall day clad only in tiny running shorts. "It was obvious that 
he wanted to provoke me," said Boswell judiciously, sighing. "And 
he didn't." He went on to tell of a female student who had made a 
habit of coming in for extra help. "She would come in and I would 
sit on one side of the desk and she would always say, 'Why don't I 
come around there and show you?' And she'd Lean on me," he 
exclaimed, throwing up his hands. "Did this person not have a clue? 
I'm probably the most well-known gay man at Yale. I mean, how 
hard is it to figure out-that won't work." 


Of course I knew Boswell as a gay icon here-and elsewhere-
and wanted his thoughts on the "one in four, maybe more" 
controversy. He explained that his time at William and Mary and at 
Harvard had convinced him that Yale was no more gay than many 
other schools, just more open of late about homosexuality. But 
many gay alumni he met felt differently; he talked about some 
friends of his, Manhattan attorneys who graduated from Yale in the. 
!970s, who insist that Old Blue is really quite pink. "Of course they 
think it's a gay school," he laughed, "because they had a great time." 


My list of questions exhausted, I thanked him profusely, smiled, 
shook his hand, and left. I never saw John Boswell again, but I wept 
at his February 3 memdrial service as friends and colleagues from all 
over the world gathered to pay their respects. It was my first 
memorial service for someone who died with AIDS, but I will 
always remember it as the second time I had the privilege to sit in 
John Boswell's presence. 


He was there during the reading of scriptures from his Christian 
faith and from the Islamic and Judaic texts he spent his life 
studying. He was there as his teachers and students praised his 
contributions to the study of history and of gay and lesbian people's 
place in it. He was there as loved ones praised his courage, his 
warmth, his friendship, and his devotion to teaching as an essential 
part of scholarship. He was there as a mournful trumpet played 
"When You Wish Upon a Star" in homage to the love of all things 
Disney that inspired his yearly pilgrimage to Orlando. And he was 
there almost palpably as his sister struggled to read ftom C.S. Lewis' 
Chronicles of Narnia, the children's books whose Christian 
allegorical tales her brother read to her when they were young. She 
told us that Boswell, near the close of his life, used Narnia to 
comfort her, to explain how God could allow the presence of evil. 
Referring to Asian, the Christ-figure of Narnia, he said, 
"Remember-He's no tame lion." 


And John Boswell was there as we filed out of Battell, knowing 
that it was right co· mourn his untimely death but perhaps more 
right to celebrate his abiding contributions. Many who were there 
hope in some way to contribute to the scholarly mission he helped 
found; all would do well to live up to the standards of courage and 
humanity he set. But even more in death than in life, John Boswell 
seems to me a little more than human: he was no tame lion, either. 
-]ayPomr 
Tm: NEW JouRNAL 



**Title: Families find relief at Yale-New Haven Pediatric AIDS Ward Where They Don't Call It AIDS**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 9**

T
he children sit in the waiting area with their families. A 
social worker grabs two Auorescent~colored dinosaurs that 
squeal when squeezed to calm siblings chasing each other 
around the clinic. Children build castles of blocks. The 
walls are covered with bright posters. The waiting area is like any 
other pediatrician's office. 


The Pediatric Specialty Clinic at Yale~New Haven Hospital, for 
children born to HIV~positive mothers, looks the same as any other 
pedi~tric specialty clinic; however, no one refers to its true purpose. 
No one speaks about AIDS or HIY. Other clinics in the hospital are 
run simultaneously, so families with AIDS~ i nfected members 
intermingle with those less likely to have an understanding of the 
system in another avenue they would have to give a history again. 
Sometimes it's very scary for them. As supportive as staff may be, it's 
really frightening when their child has to be admitted [to the hospital] 
for the very first time-even if they know it's going to be an 
admission, the child is going to do well, and then go home. It helps if 
someone you have known for a few years comes up and goes through 
that experience with you." 


The clinic focuses on whole families because the disease is readily 
transmitted from mother to child. The clinic supplies and supervises 
services ranging from medical care for the infected child to emotional 
and psychological support for healthy siblings and other family 
members who are coping with terminal illness, caregiving, and death. 
disease. In the back conference 
room, members of the staff, 
consisting 
two 
nurse 
practitioners, a coordinator, two 
pediatric social workers, a program 
director, 
a 
clinical 
trials 
coordinator, a nutritionist, and 
attending level physicians, arrive 
and begin to organize. The names 
of the children planned to attend 
the clinic and information about 
them are written on a white dry~


This disease is even more difficult in 
pediatrics because the mindset is 
that normally children don't die. 
The goal [here] is not to cure the 
The clinic also matches patients 
with services addressing education, 
prevention, ps ycho~soc ial and 
spiritual issues, and bereavement. 
While every child's story is 
different, AIDS does hit the 
disenfranchised population in large 
numbers, making already difficult 
lives worse. As Dr. Alan Meyers 
and Dr. Michael Weirzman wrote 
in P~diatric HIV Diuau, "The 
child or family but to improve their 
quality of life and alleviate pain." 
erase board. The atmosphere is tense, especially after a heavy work 
week of emergencies and nine children scheduled for one afternoon. 
Of those nine, six are known to be HIV~positive and three are still too 
young for their statuS to be determined. Even before the first patient 
arrives, the phone begins to ring. Rides to the clinic are arranged for 
those without cars, and food coupons are selected for hospital food 
distribution. Each time a social worker, nurse, or doctor enters the 
conference room after seeing a patient, several people ask, "Are you 
o.k.?" In spite of the stress, people continue to tell jokes and laugh to 
keep themselves moving. to preserve the fragile calm. 


The child's family or caretaker brings the child into the clinic. 
Nurses then weigh each child and place him or her in a room for 
physical and neurological exams. Each nurse and nurse practitioner 
sees the same patients each week to provide a sense of continuity. "It 
would be really hard for the families," said Ann 
Murphy, one of the clinic's social workers, "if every 
time they had to enter the medical institutional 
FEBRUARY 10, 1995 
clustering of cases to date among 
the poorest and most disenfranchised inner city populations who are 
frequently cared for at public facilities, the degree of stigma and 
public prejudice and misunderstanding, the likelihood that the 
mother and possibly other family members are or soon will be ill, and 
the complicated medical, psychological, social, and educational needs 
of these children and their families aggravate the health service 
problems characteristic of children with other chronic health 
conditions." 


Joyce Simpson, the pediatric AIDS program coordinator, 
organized the clinic at Yale~New Haven in 1987. At the time, the 
clinic served only 30 children. " 1989~ 1990 was our hardest year," said 
Simpson. "We would get ten new cases a month and three or four of 
them would be positive. About 45 percent of the children with HIV 
symptoms had been referred from other places. Back then we didn't 
even have a secretary. We were so overworked. We 
would have clinic all afrernoon, get done at six on a 
Friday afrernoon, and find twenty calls on our 
9 



**FORMOSA**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
FORMOSA 
( H I ~J [ 
~ t 
H f ', l A H .~ cJ cJ r 
Mandarin & Szechuan Cuisine 
chinese chars 
Dally Specials 
Take OUt Available 
~~~~~&s.l 
782.0739 
880 GRAND AVE.· NEW HAVEN


**Aids in Children: The Yale-New Haven Experience**
**Author: Karm Jacobson**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

answering machine that still had to be 
returned." At that time, Simpson was 
working with a number of volunteer doctors. 
Slowly, members joined the team to create 
the comprehensive care unit currently 
available. 

Because of the low rate of transmission 
from mother to child among Yale-New 
Haven patients, the discovery of a newly 
infected child is devastating; each child 
belongs to a family that the team already 
knows. Before telling one family · of a child's 
HIV-positive status, the team talked about 
how the parents had decided to get back 
together again, were getting a new 
apartment, and were hoping that with this 
child they could begin enjoying life again. 

Dr. Warren Andiman, director of the 
Yale-New HavenHospital Pediatric Aids 
Program, first saw viruses that were later 
identified as AIDS during his time as 
director of the hospital's clinical virology lab 
at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He began 
seeing pediatric AIDS in the mid-1980s. In 
1983, he saw his first perinatally infected 
child. Perinatal transmission is believed to 
occur in utero; during delivery through _the 
exposure to infected maternal blood and 
vaginal secretions; o r by postpartum 
ingestion of infected breast milk. Between 
1983 and 1986, about two dozen children 
were diagnosed at Yale-New Haven. In late 
1985, Dr. Andiman took a sabbatical leave 
to work in an adult AIDS program, where 
the focus was to make progress in 
understanding the disease. At that point, 
many people were still scared to go near the 
infected because so few facts had been 
established. "We had never seen anything 
like it before," he said. "The clinical 
manifestations were dramatic, scary, and 
strange." 

AIDS ranks among the ten leading 
causes of death in children. All infants born 
to HIV-positive women originally test 
positive in conventional screenings because 
they still carry their mother's antibodies. 
These maternal antibodies do not disappear 
for 15 to 18 months. A more laborious and 
expensive test that co-cultures the infant's 
lymphocytes with donor cells can determine 
a child's HN status much earlier. 

The time period from infection to 
development symptoms appears to be shorter 
in children than adults. If the child lives 
beyond the first year, he usually lives from 
five to 14 years, including a number of years 
without symptoms. In June 1991, perinatal 
transmission was believed responsible for 82 
percent of pediatric AIDS cases. Some of the 
clinical features associated with early HIV 
infection in children include failure to thrive, 
diarrhea, fever, oral problems, frequent 
infections, and developmental delay. 

Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP), an 
opportunistic infection, is the most common 
AIDS-related illness in children. According 
to Pedilltric HIV lnftction and AIDS, about 
50 percent of the children are affected by 
PCP. As recently as 1989, the mortality rate 
for children with PCP was 85 percent 
co.mpared to about 20 percent in adults. One 
of the biggest advances in care has been the 
development of vigilant anti-PCP drugs in 
the last few years. Now, most infected 
children survive the infection. 

AIDS also targets the neurological 
systems of those it strikes. In children, the 
disease affects basic development. One of the 
clinic's nurse practitioners, Sustena Romano, 
said, "What you see is a slowing down of the 
kid. You see a peak in their development and 
then they start to slip back. They lose their 
hand-eye coordination; they get slower. They· 
hit a certain grade and just can't get past it." 

As of December 28, 1994, 427 children 
had been born to HIV-positive mothers at 
Yale-New Haven. Fifty-six have died. 
Thirteen children died last year, making 
1994 the worst year for the clinic since AZT 
has been administered to children. AZT is 
the most commonly used drug, although 
other anti-retroviral drugs, including ddl, 
ddC, and d4T, are increasingly used as well. 

AIDS has raised the et.hical questjon of 
drug trials involving infected populations. 
Since the lifespans of these AIDS-infected 
children are so short, there has been a 
movement to provide 
the newest 
medications to the children as soon as 
possible to prolong their lives. For d4T, the 
latest drug, children's doses were ~mputed 
as soon as Phase I studies, whkh check for 
extreme side effects, were done on adults. 


A decrease in cases of mother-to-child 
transmission indicates advances in this area. 
In 1990, the overall rate of transmission was 
about 25 percent. In 1993 it dropped to 20 
percen~, and at Yale-New Haven, the rate 
was between 18 and 19 percent. A study 
published in the October 1994 Nnu England 
journal of Mdicin~ indicated that 
transmission may be lowered to eight percent 
from an average of 24 percent by 
administering AZT to the mother during 
pregnancy and labor, and to the infant 
during its first six weeks. 

Many ethical issues surrounding AIDS 
become more complex with the involvement 
of children. The question of disclosure, 
telling someone that an individual is HIV-
positive, has become more complicated with 
pediatric AIDS because of discrimination. 
"Have they disclosed?" "Will they disclose?" 
"To whom will they disclose?" These 
questions echo constandy in an HIV-positive 
individual's life. One day in the clinic, a 
Chicano woman brought her infant for a 
physical. Her teenage daughter accompanied 
them. After the nurse entered the room, she 
quickly realized that the mother did not 
speak English. When the daughter offered to 
translate, the nurse discreetly turned towards 
the mother, who vigorously shook her head 
no. Even without verbal communication the 
nurse understood that the daughter did not 
know her mother and baby sibling's HIV-
positive status. Another Spanish speaker was 
asked to translate while the teenager waited 
outside, visibly upset and terrified by the 
possibilities of what could be wrong. 

The issue of disclosure comes up 
frcquendy with older HIV-positive children. 
Although these children understand that 
there is something wrong with them from 
their hospitalization, medication, physical 
symptoms, and frequent clinic attendance, 
they usually do not know that they are HIV-
positive. Most families fear that a child 
might disclose his or her HIV status to 
people who would then ostracize the child. 
Throughout the 1980s, stories emerged in 
the media of children being barred from 
schools or communities. One school went to 
the extreme of insisting a child attend class 
only in a bubble. 

Fuau.uv 10, 1995 
Even today, the clinical care team must 
reeducate a school in the New Haven area 
about the disease whenever a HIV positive 
child enters because of the rumors and fears 
that still circulate. Now, the law protects 
children from such discrimination. "When I 
first came here I thought not telling the kids 
about their HIV status was absolutely 
ludicrous "and I still believe that the kids have 
the right to know they have a serious and life 
threatenlhg illness," said Romano. "But it's 
not necessary that they know they have 
HIY." 

Doc~ rs recommend that HIV-positive 
children attend school whenever they are 
healthy enough, which means that most of 
the children start education as early as three 
years old in a nursery school or in Head 
Start, a federal program that provides 
preschool for economically deprived children 
and is specifically mandated to enroll 
children with HIV infection. When children 
enter school, their parents must fill out a 
form stating if their children are on any 
medication. "Of course we don't lie on 
school forms," said Romano. "But we can't 
write AZT. We find someone, often with the 
help of the Health Department, who can 
hold the real form that says that the child is 
HIV-positive. The school then receives a 
dummy form which does not specify the 
''Mt on the lnsitk" 
medication the child is on and gives a phone 
number to call if there are any problems. 
Although this might seem like a giveaway for 
HIV, there are cancer patients who follow a 
similar format." 

All of this leads to an aura of secrecy 
around the HIV-positive children and their 
families. "These families struggle under the 
stress of this [disease] for years and no one 
knows," said Murphy. "Many families have 
found that when they have disclosed to their 
extended family the response is very positive, 
but we cannot promise people that that will 
be the reaction. These women have close 
relationships with extended family, and they 
depend on that family for support, both 
practical and emotional. The thought of 
losing that is terrifying for them. So there are 
times when our team is the only people that 
know." The team of nurses, social workers, 
and doctors make themselves available to the 
family for suppott early on. "The disclosing 
of HIV really is a process, not an acute event. 
At some later date the child will need to find 
out that he or she is dying. By approaching 
the question of disclosure early on, the team 
hopes to give the parents the time to grapple 
with their own issues so that they can 
support their child when the child needs 
them." 

Children have their own needs and time 
"Me on the OutsUk" 
Drawings by a tm year old whose mother and stepfather art H/V positive. 


schedules as well. Murphy explains, "We 
never presume to tell families what to do. We 
meet as many times as they [the parents] 
need. We might chink of every question, 
every possible response the child might have. 
They just want to process that and they need 
support around them. We problem-solve 
with the family about what the right setting 
would be--the hospital or their home?" 

At a certain age, all the children begin to 
dream of the future. "The majority of the 
kids have future plans," said Murphy. "They 
talk about, 'When I get older I want a car or 
I want to do chis.' A child sees that their 
body is deteriorating, they can't do what they 
used to do, they're caking more medicine, or 
they are taking less because there is less to 
offer them. That is when most parents are 
ready to calk to their kids. Sometimes we talk 
along the lines of'Here's what's not o.k. with 
your body,' but still never say 'HIV.' 

"We've actually sat down at times and 
everybody's been ready. One time it quickly 
became clear that the kid was not ready to 
hear what she had. She expressed, ·~ am not 
ready to know what it is, but I want to know 
how I am.' And we were able to tell this little 
girl that she's doing great." 

"I think it would be really hard for a kid 
who was dying not to put their life in order," 
said Romano. "They need to do whatever 
they want to do in their lifetime, just like an 
adult. IGds really have things they want to 
do, that they want to give away, clean up 
their papers.'' 

T
he Yale-New Haven clinic is one of 
many inner-city care centers that 
provides services for children with 
AIDS. In a similar clinic at the Children's 
Hospital of Michigan in Detroit, issues of 
welfare and the strains of inner city life arise 
to add complexity to the already burdened 
lives of these families. In the summer of 
1993, D, a nine-year-old boy, emaciated and 
suffering from later-stage infections, was 
admitted co the hospital. The bed of white 
sheets and blankets dwarfed him even 
though he stood nearly five feet tall. 

Ahhough his mother was HIV-positive, D 
was the only of her four children to have 
contracted the disease. His mother was a 
12 
talkative, friendly woman. D seemed 
happiest when his mother was present. 

Unfortunately, getting his mother to the 
hospital was not easy. The hospital had 
arranged a ride for his mother so she had 
been co visit him more often when he 
was hospitalized. But his mother was a drug 
user, and the boy had been placed in foster 
care when he was younger, along with the 
rest of his siblings. When the boy received a 
Nintendo game system from the Make a 
Wish Foundation, a non-profit organization 
that raises money to fulfill the last wishes of 
terminally ill children, his mother sold it on 
the streets for drug money. However, when 
he missed her visit one day because he had 
been asleep, he cried the rest of the day for 
her. His mother had gone into drug 
treatment many times and presently had 
custody of D. When he was getting ready to 
leave the hospital, there were questions of 
whether she was stable enough to assure 
administration of his medication. 

Clinics must also deal with the 
psychological and emotional problems of the 
parents. Providers must accept and learn the 
cultural norms of their patients. "You must 
put your values away, put your expectations 
about what life should be all about in kids 
and families, and look at what these people 
have and what they really need," said 
Romano. "Do they have a house? Do they 
have food to eat? Then comes how to g~t 
them health care. It's a challenge because you 
really have to put your own value system 
aside." 

The psychological stress and emotional 
burden on the whole family presents other 
concerns of the team. A nine-year-old girl 
with HIV was living with her biological 
father's ex-girlfriend while he was in jail. The 
woman said that the little girl had thrown up 
five times the previous day and had refused 
to eat. The team believed that the girl was 
suffering from bulimia not because of a body 
image 
problem, but from 
purely 
psychological stresS and loss. 

"[Psychological therapy] is the least 
supported of all the needs of HIV-positive 
families even though it's one of the greatest 
needs because there is such great loss, 
depression, and sadness, for the parents, for 
the kids, for everybody. There is little to no 
financial support for it and there's not a 
whole lot of people who are interested in 
doing it," said Romano. "It's very devastating 
for the survivors. Entire groups of people 
and families are being wiped out." The 
effects of the disease on the family are often 
described as "an emotional holocaust." 

Since there is still no cure for AIDS, the 
main focus of caretakers remains to provide 
as high a quality of life as possible for HIV-
positive children, including shelter, warm 
clothing, food, and rides to the hospital. 

Care providers find chat the first few years 
working in the field can be extremely 
stressful. "You hear unbearable stories that 
are unfortunately real stories," said Dr. 
Andiman. "You wish you could do 
everything and you can't do a lot. This 
disease is even more difficult in pediatrics, 
because the mindsec is chat normally 
children don't die. Generally, the doctors can 
make the kid better. The goal [here] is not to 
cu're the child or family but to improve their 
quality oflife and alleviate pain." 

"The majority of the concerns that the 
parents express about their kids are no 
different from any other parent," said 
Murphy. "All the fears and the learnings and 
the hopes and the joys of having children-
our families have all of those. I had to 
believe, though, that there had to be 
something qualitatively different or uniquely 
srressful about this. 

"These parents are struggling with 
possibly one or more children that have the 
same illness," added Murphy. "I think that if 
anything made me think, 'Yes, I want to do 
this,' the thing that really struck me about it 
was the unique kinds of supportive needs 
and struggles and the incredibly unique 
strengths that these families display because 
primarily what the majority of our families 
do is really work to live with this disease." 

And as long as the AIDS epidemic 
continues, people like Murphy, Andiman, 
Simpson, and Romano will work to help 
them. 

li1J 
Karm jacobson, a sophomor( in jonathan 
Edwards Co/kg(, is on th( stajfo.{fNJ. 



**Title: At Home with AIDS**
**Author: Ted Gesing**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
At Home with AIDS 
New Haven's homeless HIV-positive population finds refuge in transitional 
housing through the Connecticut AIDS Residence Program . 
S 
cott gets into an argument with Jack at the house meeting. 
Scott is mad at Jack for playing the TV too loud. "Well, I 
admit that I shouldn't have been doing that," Jack quickly 
responds. He isn't looking for trouble. 

Part of the problem is that sound travels easily through the floors 
of the house. It's a well~built structure, but it's been abused, and it 
may have lost some of its original solidity. The house was 
renovated just a year ago, when the Connecticut AIDS Residence 
Program (CARP) decided to make it the site of its transitional 
housing program. 

Though everything was refurbished, the retained a bit of its 
past as a student apartment building. A rack of buzzers is mounted 
outside the front door: four different room bells, each with those 
old label strips that change with each new tenant. Scratched and 
faded apartment letters remain on the doors to each living room. 
Scott and Jack sit in the 'A' room, a 20~foot square with a 
kitchen alcove and two rooms branching off of it. About half a 
dozen other residents and one of the house managers are at the 
meeting. Jack responds to Scott's concern. "I'm really sorry to have 
gotten you upset." 

But Scott isn't satisfied with such a straightforward apology. He 
presses the issue, and Jack begins to feel a bit awkward. He 
apologizes again, and admits that he was really inconsiderate. He 
will consider Scott's needs more in the future. The discussion goes 
back and forth until the house leader feels the need to step in. She 
asks the others at the meeting what they think, and they seem to 
think the issue is pretty straightforward. Jack says he is sorry and 
says he won't do it again. It ought to be enough .. 

s this scene unfolds, Marty and I sit upstairs drinking coffee 
U1 the living room she shares with Jack and Ken. T he room 
s the same shape as the one downstairs, but the furniture is 
arranged differently. A couch and an armchair form the first corner 
of the room, with a coffee table between them. Narcotics 
Anonymous literature and Christian readers litter the table. The 
armchair faces a television, which glows with a Columbo rerun. 
Marty has brewed a second pot of coffee so that I can try her 
special ingredient: cinnamon. It doesn't dis~olve, but forms a sort 
of cinnamon scum on the surface. I'm a little disappointed with 
the results. 

Before the first cup of coffee, Marty felt obliged to inform me 
that she had bleached the mugs. "You don't have to worry about 
anything. I make sure my things are properly cleaned," she assured 
me. Embarrassed and confused by her need to say this, I said 
nothing. Marty, interpreted my silence as ignorance rather than 
awkwardness. She took this opportunity to inform me that I was in 
a house wherein every resident has AIDS and has been homeless. 
"Oh, I realize," I assured her. 

M
arty is a strong woman. That's obvious from looking at 
her, but the history she weaves makes it even clearer. A 
number of years ago, while in Florida with a friend, she 
considered a stint as a professional body builder. She began a 
hardcore regimen at the Powerhouse Gym and succeeded in her 
pursuit of muscle mass. But Marty quickly discovered that the 
weights were turning her into someone she was not. Getting 
dressed one day, she reached to push up her shoulder strap and 
realized that she could not touch her shoulder. Her bicep was so 
large, she could not move her forearm far enough forward. 

She flexes for me. Her physique is powerful, but no longer 
inhibiting. She still lifts weights now, and tries to work out 
whenever possible, but muscles are not her first priority. 
Staying clean takes most of Marty's time now. She and her 
family are very proud of her break from heroin, a sobriety she has 
maintained for a month and a half. Marty now substitutes 
methadone for heroin through a local program that she follows 
faithfully. Her doctor recently gave her a Percocet prescription for 
shingles. Marty feared that, for her, any prescription might become 
addictive, and gave her prescription to the doctor at her 
methadone program. Marty didn't think they would take the 
prescription away, nor does she think she ,would have let them if 


FEBRUARY 10, 1995 
by Ted Gesing 
13 


**Title: Positively Negative**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Alvin Novick's good news proves it's hard to stay 
F
rom behind his desk, piled high with papers, reports, and 
letters, Dr. Alvin Novick tells his story. Sometimes his 
tone is bitter and confrontational, as when he talks about 
the inadequate government response to the epidemic that 
has shaped his life since 1982. At other points his speech becomes 
almost unintelligible, as when he talks softly about how he misses 
the 70 friends this epidemic has taken from him. But then his 
eyes crinkle as he smiles unexpectedly, his voice resonant with the 
newfound irony of his life. For now he is left behind, 
unexpectedly alive, to make new friends among the survivors. 
Despite his active participation in the sexual revolution of the 
1970s, Dr. Alvin Novick-Yale professor, activist, gay man-
tested negative for HIV in August of 1994. The test results came 
as a surprise; he had assumed the opposite. His partner, whom he 
refers to only as Bill, died in the summer of 1992 from 
complications resulting from AIDS. Novick did not get tested 
while Bill was ill for fear of diverting attention and energy away 
&om his partner's situation. During the months following Bill's 
death, Novick believed without at a doubt that he too was dying. 
He had many of the symptoms of advanced HIV including 
mouth sores and esophageal 
pain, but they disappeared by 
Christmas, 
leaving 
him 
physically healthy and extremely 
confused. 
Now Novick believes that he 
used his uncertainry about HIV 
as a crutch to keep him from 
"I'm trying to think about ways to 
convinced those that are still 
healthy that it's worth it to put on a 
condom because it's worth it to 
now try to come to terms with 
what it means to remain behind, 
as much a victim of the AIDS 
epidemic as are those it kills. 
Novick is not alone in facing 
uncertainty about the future and 
the search for self-definition. 
continue to live." 
Gay men around the country 
echo his ambivalent reaction to 
emotionally reengaging with life. 
which was being alone, having to recreate a life that I didn't know 
how to recreate, that I didn't want to recreate, that I didn't know 
whether I could recreate." 

Then, in the fall of 1993, Novick met someone who rekindled 
his ability to feel , to connect emotionally. With hopes of 
committing to this new relationship, he felt the need to end the 
uncertainty in his life. 

Novick expected that the test would return positive, thus 
resolving his feelings of loneliness and guilt, but instead the 
suprising negative results left a void in his life. He expresses a 
state of ambivalence about his condition in his description of his 
initial reaction to the test results. "I laughed and I cried. I 
laughed for obvious reasons; I had assumed I had been doomed 
since 1981 and I'm not doomed," he says. "The bad news is that I 
didn't know what to do because the test took away my crutch. I 
was using my uncertain sero-status as a crutch because it 
increased my uncertainty about who I was." Novick can no longer 
group himself with those who accept AIDS by dying. But at age 
69, it is not easy for him to create a new life based on a revised 
self-definition, a life that leaves his problems unresolved. He must


As he puts it, he did not 
reoccupy the space left by Bill's death; there was no point in 
making an effort if he was going to die. "Not occupying life 
meant not doing all of those things that one does for comfort and 
relaxation. I had no serious interaction with people, no surface 
emotion, irritabiliry. My senses weren't alert in the usual way," 
Novick says. 

Novick made little attempt to deal with the aftershocks of 
trauma, and assumed that death would resolve his problems. Bill 
was not the first or last person that Novick saw killed by AIDS. 
As the disease decimated his support system and his community, 
Novick accepted AIDS as a solution to his loneliness and 
depression. "Why would you welcome being ill? It allies you with 
the people whose lives are fused with yours, • he 
explains. "It seemed to me it had elements of 
resolving what I didn't want to face at the time, 
his negative HIV status. As 
AIDS and homosexual identity become increasingly intertwined, 
many within the gay community find that their lives center 
around the disease, whether HIV positive or not. All must deal 
with the unending grief for the 180,000 who have died of the 
disease since 1981. A Los Angelu Timu article in July 1993 
described the uninfected as "the walking wounded" and included 
among their symptoms bouts of hypochondria, clinical 
depression, anxiety, insomnia, patterns of self-destructive 
behavior, and anhedonia, the inability to derive a sense of 
pleasure from life. Psychologists and AIDS activists alike identify 
one aspect of the emotional response of the uninfected as 
"survivor guilt": why do others die while they remain healthy 
when both groups have engaged in the same 
behavior? 


D
espite continuous and excessive psychological trauma, the 
uninfected often believe that they don't have a right to 
their feelings or to the support necessary to help resolve 
them while others are dying. Meanwhile, many in the gay 
community not only exclude the walking wounded because of 
their negative status, but also dismiss their problems as 
insignificant and a drain on the response to the AIDS epidemic. 
But the same HIV-negative population, people like Alvin Novick, 
remain at the center of the community response to AIDS-the 
care for the dying, the political activism, and the energy to 
continue an ongoing fight for the survival of their communiry. 
Novick now belongs to a group that has not been addressed by 
the communiry lesponse to AIDS. As his energy to act returns 
with his emotional reawakening, Novick cannot ignore the needs 
of those still HIV-negative. His attempt to articulate a response to 
a void is, not for the first time, the defining experience of his life. 

T
he encroachment of AIDS on Novick's personal life 
brought him into the activist realm, and once there, his 
drive pushed him to fill the voids he encountered. His first 
education about AIDS came from the material Bill brought home 
to study. Bill focused on health issues within the gay communiry 
fEBRUARY IO, 1995 
as a graduate student at the Yale School of Epidemiology and 
Public Health. The research exposed Novick to the scientific side 
of rhe disease and to concerns about the effect of the disease on 
the gay community. When their best friend became ill in the 
spring of 1982, Novick understood for the first time how an 
epidemic within the gay community would affect his own life. 
"There was that personal element of AIDS now, around our best 
friend, and of course that had ramifications beyond that because 
he represented to us gay men in general," Novick recalls. Facing 
the intersection of his life and the disease, Novick agreed to attend 
a conference held by the National Gay Health Education 
Foundation in the summer of 1982 with Bill. He sees the 
conference as a transition point in his life. "For the first time I met 
three hundred openly gay health care providers," Novick 
remembers. "There were several inspiring, unbelievable people 
who made me believe that it was my duty to serve my 
communiry." 

Novick took up his dury to serve by filling that need. Before 
he could begin contributing fully, however, there were certain 
things he needed to do. First, Novick returned to New Haven and 
came out to his professional colleagues for the first time; he saw 
his call as a defining incident which required honesry in all areas 
of his life. He accepted fully, for the first time, the totaliry of his 
gay identiry, and shared it with everyone-including the president 
of Yale, A. Bartlett Giamatti (SY '60). Novick connected himself 
to the epidemic by immersing himself in the rapidly developing 
scientific and sociological research on AIDS. In 1983, Dr. James 
Curren, head of AIDS research at the Centers for Disease Control, 
assigned Novick to conduct a behavioral epidemiological study of 
gay men with Kaposi's sarcoma, an early-stage opportunistic 
infection, at Memorial Sloane Kettering Hospital in New York 
Ciry. Through his work on the project, Novick met members and 
leaders of groups like the Gay Men's Health Crisis and the New 
York AIDS Network, groups which were defining the communiry 
response to AIDS at that time. 

Novick then returned to New Haven and, with Bill, became 
the center of a group of gay men in Connecticut with an interest 
in helping those with AIDS. This network sprang into action 
during the summer of 1983 to create AIDS Project New Haven, 
the first formal response to the epidemic in the city. Novick 
shouldered much of the administrative work necessary to the 
survival of the organization, taking on leadership positions 
including steering committee member, co-chair, and principal 
educational speaker. 

In the early years of the AIDS epidemic, Novick played a 
crucial role in the activist movement by disseminating 
information. Few were willing to speak 
openly about AIDS and sex, but he saw 
education as the key to understanding and 
preventing the spread of the disease. Since 
he had co~e out, Novick felt comfortable 
speaking about homosexual intercourse 
and STDs, subjects that others avoided. 
Bill became an educational public speaker 
through his job as AIDS Coordinator at 
the Connecticut State Health Department. 
Novick estimates that until 1986, the two 
of them provided ninety percent of 
educational programming about AIDS in 
the state of Connecticut. As the principal 
speaker for AIDS Project New Haven, 
Novick spoke up to nine times a week on 
what he calls "AIDS 101" and safer sex. He 
addressed what he saw as a void in the 
framework of Yale's liberal arcs education 
by introducing two new classes, "Biology 
and Human Affairs: AIDS and Society" 
and "Bioethics," into the curriculum. 
Although the courses created controversy, 
he views them as an integral part of 
education about the interaction between 
ethics, science, and public policy. 

Novick soon realized that he could use 
his visibility to represent those groups 
affected by the epidemic but lacking 
advocates in the public sphere. · Public 
health officials recognize that in New 
Haven, AIDS is most prevalent among 
minority IV drug users and their families, 
and among female prostitutes. Since the 
gay community had organized most of the 
response to AIDS up to this point, those 
outside it lacked care and advocacy services 
responsive to their specific needs. In the 
spring of 1986, Novick went to Mayor 
Biagio DiLieto as an advocate for these 
groups. "Here we had a major epidemic, 
and it was among people who were not in 
a position to mount their own services; 
they were the poor and the alienated and 
the ostracized," he explains. Mayor 
DiLieto subsequently appointed a task 
force on AIDS, with Novick as chair-
another responsibility no one else wanted. 
Novick began to speak regularly to those 
in positions of authority on behalf of 
minorities, prostitutes, IV drug users, 
women, and children with HIV and AIDS. 
He familiarized himself with their 
needs and their personal circumstances 
through interaction and research. This 
made him a target for questions about the 
right of a white male to speak for 
marginalized groups. "I speak for these 
groups because they are not out there 
speaking for themselves," he explains 
vehemently. "And I fill the vacuum left by 
their silent voices because I am out there 
in a very public way. That allows me to 
"I used to think of 
[the uninfected] as 
whining and 
.complaining, what 
we used to call'the 
worried well.' But 
now I recognize that 
they, that we, are 
burdened in some 
ways more than 
those who are ill." 
speak for people who are not out in a 
variety of ways." Without him, he 
wonders, would these groups be heard? 

On a national level, Novick continues 
to fill such vacuums. He has served in 
leadership positions for major national 
organizations concerned with AIDS, 
includinl the American Association of 
Physicians for Human Rights, the 
National AIDS Network and several 
government panels on infectious disease 
transmission and treatment. He sees 
himself as a bridge between groups who 
often disagree as to how best to serve the 
interests of those infected with AIDS-
medical scientists, activists, gay men, 
academia, government officials, and all of 
the others for whom be tries to speak 
while remaining somehow above the fray. 

Novick often feels discouraged, 
especially when he looks at the big picture. 
"I think I thrive on the burdens," he says, 
in defense of his ambitious goals. He 
qualifies his statement, however, adding 
softly, "But you don't in the end-nobody 
thrives-because you'll all pay. We'll all 
pay in proportion to how hard we worked 
and the pay will be negative." 

N
ovick assumed for twelve years 
that the net payment for his 
activist work would be death, that 
he had only a limited time in which to 
devote all of his energy to his cause. But 
instead, he's paying with loneliness, guilt, 
and the daunting prospect of making the 
remaining years of his life meaningful. 
Like so many others, he lives under a pile 
of corpses he cannot bury emotionally. In 
the last year, Alvin Novick has become 
part of the growing articulation of a 
response to this problem, a response that 
will try to fill the void of support and 
recognition of the HIV-negative. 

· 
Mter devoting twelve years of his life 
to AIDS victims, Novick finds he can no 
longer directly identify himself with them. 
Before the test, he behaved as if he had 
HIV because he believed it, and now his 
negative status stands as a wall between 
him and those with whom he previously 
identified, living and dead. He speaks with 
difficulty, softly, holding back his 
emotions. "Since 1982, I felt as if there 
was a continuum between me and the 
epidemic and all those who are ill and 
dying. I knew them and their feelings. 
Now they're not me, so I have to find a 
new place for myself. You cannot describe 
being uninfected as being in a continuum 
with those who are." He wipes his eyes 
while he speaks, and stares out the window 
of his cluttered office. This reality upsets 
Novick's view of himself aftd in some ways 
places him outside of his own community. 
AIDS has become the great defining 
cause of the gay community but mainly as 
it affects the infected. Energy, resources, 
and attention go to helping those who sick 
and dying. Meanwhile, the impact on the 
uninfected-the accumulated psycho-
logical distress, the increasing isolation, 
and the constant fear-goes unacknow-




**The Silent Epidemic: HIV-Negative Men and the Emotional Toll of AIDS**
**Author: Melissa Moskov**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ledged and consequently untreated. Dr. 
Miles Cohen, a Toronto psychiatrist, refers 
to the psychological toll on the physically 
healthy as a "silent epidemic." There 
remains a need for the institutional 
empowerment of HIV-negative men that 
will provide support, recognition of their 
emotional distress, and a way of assuaging 
their guilt over their health. Novick is 
beginning to address this need. 

Despite the glaring lack of awareness 
about the problems of the uninfected, it is 
not easy to mobilize help for those who 
remain healthy. The issue threatens to 
fragment the gay community; one gay 
newspaper in San Francisco heralded the 
formation of an HIV-negative support 
group as "viral apartheid." The resources 
of the community response to AIDS are 
already stretched thin. But as Novick 
recognizes, HIV-negative men need to feel 
empowered and legitimized if they are to 
continue to care for the dying. If they 
break down emotionally or become 
alienated, they cannot continue to fight 
the epidemic. More importantly, their 
distress may contribute to its spread. 

Helping the healthy stay negative 
drives Novick's recent work, which focuses 
on increased prevention education. Since 
the development of the test for HIV, he 
explains, "We've neglected the develop-
ment of prevention and care services for 
those who are uninfected. We haven't 
focused on keeping the uninfected alive 
and supported; mentally safe." Those who 
are HIV-negative must maintain an 
awareness of the positive things in their 
lives while constantly coming into contact 
with the reality of the epidemic. "I feel 
more concern now for the uninfected," he 
says. "I used to think of them as whining 
and complaining, what we used to call 'the 
worried well.' But now I recognize that 
they, that we, are burdened-in some ways 
more burdened than those who are ill. I'm 
trying to think about ways to convince 
those who are still healthy that it's worth it 
to put on a condom because it's worth it to 
continue to live." 

Novick would like to see concern for 
the HIV-negative grow. He encourages the 
FEBRUARY 10, 1995 
formation of support groups for the 
uninfected although he does not belong to 
one. He sees the problems of the HIV-
negative as a valid topic for research. In 
the summer of 1993, Novick began to pay 
attention to the emotional background 
behind the second wave of outbreaks of 
HIV infection among younger gay men in 
San Francisco. These young men felt the 
need to identify fully with the gay 
community and at the same time could 
not escape from the emotional aspects of 
its deterioration from disease. They 
practiced unsafe sex, preferring to receive 
the attention and care that came with 
death than to live sad, lonely lives. "The 
gay community is at· risk of losing its 
future as it has already lost its past," says 
Novick. "At least you can reconstruct the 
past, but for these young people to feel 
that infection and death are inevitable 
leaves a sad picture of the future." 

Novick set up a planning committee as 
part of the American Association of 
Physicians for Human Rights to research 
the emotional stress of being HIV-negative 
and how it alters the effectiveness of 
campaigns for safer sex. "It's positive to 
stay negative" has emerged as a slogan 
among those who 
recognize 
the 
psychological state of the HIV-negative. 

Novick has taken on the task of trying 
to fill the void of response to the needs of 
the HIV-negative. He must try to convince 
others that his newest crusade is not one of 
division but of provision for the future. 
"As a community, we need to protect those 
who are ill and dying, but we need to 
make sure that they don't occupy all of our 
space, that we continue to take care of 
those who are alive," he explains. His own 
identity crisis led Novick to validate the 
problems of the HIV-negative. From there 
he followed his usual path to action, to 
insure that those who remain behind can 
stay strong enough to fight, to care, to live 
on, and to form a community. In his 
largest crusade to date, Alvin Novick will 
try to ensure that the HIV-negative gay 
community does not self-destruct. 
II1J 
M~lissa Mosko[, a unior in Timothy Dwight, 
is Reuarch Editor ojTNJ. 


**When Doctors Can't Cure**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

When Doctors Can't Cure 
The vi ru s still eludes researchers, but clinical medicine pushes AIDS 
treatm ent ever further. 

I
n many ways, the living room of the Hospice Cottage in 
Branford, Connecticut, looks like any other living room. Two 
vinyl couches and a recliner line three walls, all directed 
toward a 19" color television. Open tape cases on top of an 
old stereo unit indicate a preference for Jefferson Starship. 
Poinsettia plants, placed along two window sills, give life to the 
room. 

In many ways, it does not. On a wall behind one of the· 
couches, posters explain basic procedures for "Cardiopulmonary 
Resuscitation" and "First Aid for Choking." Wheelchairs and IV 
stands crowd the floor. A series of coughs punctuates every 
utterance. O ne night last month, three Cottage residents gathered 
in the living room to watch the local news. During a commercial 
break, two of them engaged in a brief conversation, a conversation 
about neither the day's sports scores nor the weather forecast. ''Are 
you on Xylenex?" one asked. Apparently misunderstanding, the 
other responded, "I don't know why I was on Cycloserine. I haven't 
had AZT in six months." 

These days, an AIDS patient can mark the passing of days, 
hours, and minutes with the taking of medication. The patient's 
chart gives a lengthy recipe for the meal of survival. Many feature 
more than a dozen different drugs, taken orally, as suppositories, or 
intravenously, once, twice, or three times a day. The chef, in all 
likelihood a physician specializing in oncology or infectious 
diseases, must continually prescribe and adjust in an effort to 
defeat the virus responsible for AIDS and treat related infections, 
all while keeping side effects at a minimum. Dr. Peter Selwyn, a 
professor at the Yale School of Medicine, and Associate Director of 
its AIDS Program, performs these tasks on monthly visits to the 
Hospice Cottage, a home health care setting for AIDS patients. 

The Hospice-Yale connection exemplifies the fusion of modern 
medicine and social science in an increasingly successful effort to 
make life more bearable for those with an unbearable disease. 

A doctor relies on two basic strategies to keep an AIDS patient 
alive. First, the doctor tackles the disease itself. Reverse 
transcriptase inhibitors limit the growth and replication of the 
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), the instigating agent 
linked to AIDS. AZT usually does the job, but over time it loses its 
effectiveness. Recently, other drugs such as ddi, 
ddC, and the Yale-developed d4T have joined in 
the fight. Doctors alternate between them, hoping 
to second-guess the virus that has outwitted the medical world for 
almost fifteen years. 

With the second tactic-preventing and t reating the 
complications caused by AIDS-the pharmaceutical juggling act 
becomes even more complex. Drugs like Bactrim, Elavil, Seldane, 
Xanax, Dapsone, Foscarnet, and Thorazine-to name but a few-
target conditions ranging from pneumonia to psychosis, from 
· herpes to blindness. On one Wednesday night in January, Dr. 
Selwyn made his monthly: pilgrimage to the Hospice Cottage. 
After meeting with each of the three patients, Dr. Selwyn arranged 
a treatment schedule with the help of Fredi Vinci, a registered 
nurse. Together they faced the challenges of long-term intravenous 
morphine adminismition and the muscle stiffness caused by the 
antipsychotic Haldol, not to mention the added difficulty of 
procuring medication for the recent immigrant living in the 
Cottage at the time. 

At the Atkins Firm, the hospital-based component of Yale's 
AIDS Program, Dr. Selwyn led a medical team through a similar 
procedure. They travelled from room to room, speaking to every 
patient and listening to the ones who·could still talk. In between 
each visit, they reviewed vital statistics and discussed possible 
treatment. After going over white cell and electrolyte counts, the 
group entered the room of a disgruntled but exceptionally lively 
patient, sitting in bed eating a breakfast of scrambled eggs, 
pancakes, and corn flakes. The patient looked up and promptly 
demanded to know why he was stiJI in the hospital. In his calm, 
low voice, Dr. Selwyn answered, "We know you have an infection, 
but we don't know what it is." Dr. Selwyn's confession typifies a 
frustrated medical community. In their struggle with AIDS, health 
care workers face what has become, in many respects, the most 
elusive disease in all of human history. 

AIDS itself, clinically defined as a specific degree of immune 
system deficiency, does not kill. By destroying the body's 
protection against disease, however, it paves a clear way for 
illness, suffering, and, ultimately, death. Once the immune system 
can no longer provide an effective defense, a horde of infections 
attack every organ system in the body. "It's a very evil disease," 
explained Dr. Gerald Friedland, Director of the 
AIDS Program at Yale. "It's a painful, relentless 
disease of repeated onslaughts. There's something 
almost diabolical about the way it attacks people." In the medical 
journal Daedalus, Dr. Friedland elaborated, "Gaunt, slow in 
movement, some breathless, others bedridden, AIDS patients 
increasingly populate the hospital landscape. I find myself looking 
at healthy young men and women who are well and functioning 
even after the initial AIDS diagnosis, and like a witness to an all 
too familiar drama, I see them in my mind's eye months or several 
years later wasted and suffering, shadows of their present selves." 

The immune system decline that leads to AIDS begins several 
years beforehand. After someone becomes infected with HIV, 
either through unprotected sex or IV drug use, that person enters 
an asymptomatic period lasting several years. During this time, the 
individual cominues to live normally while the virus reproduces 
itself millions of times over. As Dr. Renee Frankel, a fellow in 
infectious diseases at Yale, explained, "It's the kind of disease where 
you can see the train coming and it's going to hit you but it's all 
the way in California and you live in New York." For almost that 
entire journey, HIV has little visible effect on its host. But as the 
train approaches its destination, what began as HIV infection 
becomes full-blown AIDS. 

Normally, a person has anywhere from 500 to 1,500 CD4 cells 
per cubic millimeter of blood. These cells, also known as T 
lymphocytes, form the basis of the body's immune system, 
attacking any foreign body that enters the organism. O nce HIV 
has spread throughout the body, it begins systematically destroying 
the CD 4 cells. A falling CD 4 count records the time an infected 
individual has left to live. Doctors look at this value before 
anything else, and many patients know theirs by heart. According 
to guidelines set by the Centers for Disease Control, someone with 
a CD4 count below 200 has AIDS. As soon as the CD4 count 
starts to drop, opportunistic infections (Ols) set in, infections that 
rarely affect individuals with intact immune systems. Many people 
first notice thrush, a spotty white fungus on the tongue. After that, 
the order, combination, and timing of Ols can vary tremendously. 
Depending on their infections at any given time, AIDS 
patients may suffer from severe diarrhea, persistent cough, 
ubiquitous sores, constant fatigue, weight loss, 
fever, blurry eyesight, abdominal pain, irregular 
menstrual bleeding, and dozens of other 
conditions. 

Someone with AIDS usually deals with 
several infections simultaneously. Tuberculosis, a 
disease brought back from near extinction by the 
AIDS epidemic, and Mycobacterium avium 
intrace/iulare (MAl) can infect the lungs, brain, 
or spine. Cancer strikes AIDS patients in the 
fEBRUARY 10, 1995 
forms of lymphoma, which targets the brain and lymph nodes, and 
the formerly rare Kaposi's sarcoma (KS), which appears as skin 
lesions. An_other AI DS trademark, Pneumocystis cannu 
pneumonia (PCP) infiltrates the lungs and causes respiratory 
difficulty. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) resides harmlessly in many 
people, but in AIDS patients it causes blindness. Toxoplasmosis, a 
brain infection, causes paralysis, confusion, and loss of balance. 

Because HIV shows almost no symptoms, many people learn of 
their condition only near the end, when AIDS-related infections 
move in for the kill. Some people aware of their HIV-positive 
status do their best to ignore it while they remain healthy, never 
seeking medical attention. Last year a man came to Yale New-
Haven Hospital with PCP. When Dr. Frankel started treating him, 
she found the result of almost a decade of neglected HIV infection: 
a CD4 count of 10. During the eight years between a positive test 
for HIV and the onset of PCP, his first opportunistic infection, the 
man had remained in good condition, working two jobs seven days 
a week, living in an apartment with his girlfriend, and maintaining 
an active social life. Once in the hospital, he developed MAl, 
which caused fevers and liver problems. The patient had previously 
had hepatitis B, C, and D, and medications further irritated his 
liver. Within ten days, it failed. Medical technology helped the 
man live eight months after his initial hospital admission. Three 
days after his family went home to Puerto Rico following a final 
visit, he died. 

Currently, the majority of 
AIDS cases run a significantly 
longer course. Some of the most 
common conditions associated 
with the disease, such as AIDS 
wasting 
syndrome 
and 
dementia, eat away at the 
patient over a period of years. 
Wasting syndrome, 



**The Slow, Cruel Death of AIDS**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the unintended loss of at least I 0 percent 
of normal body weight, leaves the majority 
of AIDS patients in their final months 
looking like concentration camp prisoners. 
So prevalent is the condition, and so 
devastating its effects, that Africans call 
AIDS "slim." To this day, effective 
treatment eludes physicians, who try their 
best to stimulate appetite with Marino!, a 
marijuana derivative .. used for a similar 
condition in cancer patients. 


Like wasting syndrome, AIDS-related 
dementia mysteriously eats away at the 
patient, but it targets the mind. This 
condition, 
some 
physicians 
have 
postulated, may affect every AIDS patient 
in one form or another. Families, friends, 
nurses, and doctors watch as those affiicted 
steadily lose their awareness of reality. A 
former manager of a large company in 
Connecticut who eventuaJiy came to the 
Ho~pice Cottage showed no signs of 
infec_tion umil his lover noticed a number 
of errors in his checking account. Within a 
month he was hospitalized; three months 
later he had no idea who he was. With no 
short-term 
memory, 
he 
talked I 
nonsensically every day about going to 
work. 


Yale's Dr. Selwyn put the patient on 
AZT, which restored normal walking and 
talking abilities within six weeks. Friends 
and family felt increasing excitement with 
each sign of improvement. The patient 
even went home witli his parents for a 
weekend. But then, as the drug always 
does, AZT lost its effectiveness. The 
cancerous lesions of KS appeared on the 
patient's legs, and he once again displayed 
compulsive behavior. He constantly asked 
for a cigarette. Volunteers and nurses 
obliged him, but moments later, on the 
way back from his outdoor smoke, he 
inquired once more, "Can I have a 
cigarette?" 


"It was so sad to watch this guy 
groping for answers and trying to maintain 
his personality and maintain his 
independence 
and 
just 
maintain 
conversations," commented Vinci, the 
Hospice Cottage nurse. "It's heartbreaking, 
Tm


absolutely heartbreaking." Every day 
Hospice workers, along with the patient's 
family and his lover, tried desperately to 
reorient him. On visits to his room, they 
would ask, "What did you do today?" 
Every time he would respond, "Well, I 
went to work." They would counter, "No, 
you didn't; look around, where arc you?" 
His answer: "Oh, I'm not at work." Every 
day they would remind him of the time, 
the date, the place, the situation. "We were 
praying he had an organism, some kind of 
bacteria, because at least then it would be 
treatable," said Vinci. "We sent him to Yale 
for CAT scans and MRis. We were hoping 
there was somcthing-toxo, anything-
that would be treatable with IV. Nothing. 
Everything came back negative. It's all 
dementia." 


N
ot long ago, Vinci would not even 
have expressed such a hope. Only 
within the past five years has the 
medical response to AIDS become largely 
technical. All throughout the 1980s, 
doctors watched as dozens of unknown 
and unrrcatable infections ravaged their 
patients. Physicians played a part they had 
nor since the days before antibiotics: that 
of the family doctor who, much of the 
time, could only hold the hands of those 
suffering. 


When the Centers for Disease Control 
first described a new and devastating 
disease in young homosexual men in June 
1981, it sent a wave of terror through the 
medical communiry. "It was different from 
anything else I had ever seen," recalled Or. 
Friedland, "and it was bad." Later that 
summer, Or. Friedland noticed a similar 
condition in New York Ciry, but this time 
in IV drug users. As all epidemics do, 
AIDS initially called attention to itself in 
those ncar the end of its infection, those 
about to die. While dozens, and then 
hundreds, started dying, the medical 
community watched in disbelief. •For a 
while we had the delusion that we had 
eradicated infectiow diseases," recaHed Or. 
Friedland, "so it's been very humbling." 


AIDS, 
then 
called 
gay-related 
immunodeficiency syndrome, 
stood alone in the pathological 
world for a number of reasons. Its 
related infections knew no limits, 
requiring the attention of every 
medical subspecialty. 


In 
addition, by targeting 
those in their twenties, 
thirties, and forties, it 
caused 
what 
Dr. 
Friedland has dubbed 
an inversion of the life 
cycle. 
Previous- ly, 
widespread mortal-ity 
had 
struck 
that 
population only du-
ring wartime. For 
young doctors and 
nurses, it meant escor-ting their contem-
poraries-not just the very young or the 
very old-to a gruesome end. 


In 1983, researchers discovered HIV, 
the virus almost universally considered 
responsible for rhe modern-day plague. For 
the next few years, fear of transmission 
loomed large in the minds of those caring 
for AIDS patients. Many health care 
workers felt the touch of death with each 
accidental needle prick. AZT appeared in 
1987, and with it came a period of hope. 
AIDS patients enjoyed increased survival, 
fewer opportunistic infections, and 
consequently a better quality of life. Yet 
within two years both providers and 
recipitnts of medical care realized that 
AZT could not hold HIV at bay forever. A 
feeling of despair replaced the short-lived 
excitement over the drug. Since then, 
hospitals have focused on improving the 
response to AIDS-related infections. 


When the epidemic first appeared, the 
prognosis for AIDS patients looked 
despairingly bleak. After a few months and 
one or two opportunistic infections, most 
were dead. As recently as the early 1990s, 
PCP struck over two-thi rds of AI DS 
patients, 20 percent of them dying during 
its first attack. Today, drug combination 
therapy can prevent and treat not only 
PCP, bur TB, 
roxo, cryprococcal 
meningitis, 
and dozens of other 


comp 
ns as 


Nowadays, patients 
diagnosed with AIDS 
live years, not 
months, and mostly 
at home, not in the 
hospital. 


Patients diagnosed 
with AIDS live years, not months, and 
mostly at home, not in the hospital. For 
those individuals who learn of their HIV 
early on and receive prompt medical 
attention, prophylaxis-a series of 
preventive 
measures-provides 
vaccinations for PCP and the flu. Doctors 
check for TB and hepatitis and prescribe a 
number of drugs to combat them. Other 
members of the health care team look into 
fa m ily and other suppor t systems, 
including proper insurance. 


Considering t he incidence of the 
epidemic in New H aven, Yale and irs 
affiliated hospitals joined the attack on 
AIDS relatively late. Unril recently, Yale-
New Haven Hospital offered only a once-
a-week clinic, staffed on a volunteer basis 
by a handful of university physicians. After 
opening the Nathan Smith C linic fo r 
outpatient consultations in I 989, Yale set 
about creating a comprehensive AIDS 
program in I 991. Doctors Friedland and 
Selwyn came from New York to direct the 
effort. 


Over the past four years, Yale's AIDS 
Program has grown considerably. So has 
the epidemic. Clinics remain over-
subscribed. and hospital wards have no 
vacancies. Last year, Nathan Smith 
physicians cared for almost I ,000 adults 
with H IV /AIDS. The inpatient Atkins 
Firm ad mitted over 900. The AIDS


Program also runs a separate cenrer for 
pediarric AIDS, as well as rhe HIY in 
Prisons Program. Ir interfaces directly with 
rhe surrounding city through the Mayor's 
Task Force on AIDS as well as through a 
health care van that follows New Haven's 
needle exchange vehicle twice a week. 


In the hospital, AIDS patienrs fill an 
entire wing of rhe ninth floor, so me 
spilling over into other wards. These are 
rhe patients who, for one reason or 
another, require close monitoring. Some 
will return ro their families in a few days. 
Others will go back to jail. Many will not 
leave rhe hospital alive. Friday mornings, 
the AIDS team gathers at nursing station 
9-5 and begins individual room visits, a 
process known as megarounds. Unlike 
most medical reams, usually a few nurses 
and physicians, the mammoth AIDS team 
often includes over a dozen people. Three 
weeks ago, Dr. Selwyn, attending physician 
for the month, led a crowd of four interns, 
two residents, a clinical nurse specialist, 
other nurses, an infectious diseases fellow, a 
rester, a nutritionist, a counselor, and a 
social worker. "It's a way of bringing a 
whole interdisciplinary approach to patienr 
care," explained Dr. Rick Altice, a 
physician in the AIDS Program and Co-
chief of the Atkins Firm. "It's importanr to 
recognize all of the disease's implications, 
nor just whether the person gets this dose 
of incravenous medication or that dose. It's 
really about how their psychosocial 
development is going, how their substance 
abuse treatment is going along, what are 
the sorts of entitlements and resources the 
person needs. You can't plan rational 
rreatment without the concept of the 
whole patient." 


In the late 80s and early 90s, around 
the rime AZT's faults appeared, rhe 
medical community realized that AIDS 
meant much more than a low T cell count. 
The disease primarily involved gay men 
and IV drug users, the latter being 
primarily poor people of color. "Who 
could be more marginalized in this 
society?" Dr. Friedland wondered at the 
rime. In cities like New Haven, where IV 
drug use accounrs for rhe majority of HIV 
infections, AIDS patients come from 
populations that chronically slip through 
the cracks in the health care system. 


Physicians and counselors worked through 
methadone programs and other substance 
abuse outlets to reach AIDS patients who, 
because rhey lacked either money or 
inclination, rarely sought health care. They 
soon discovered rhar t reating AI DS 
patients often meant addressing an 
addiction rhar might kill before AIDS 
complications did. 


They also discovered, paradoxically, 
rhar news of H IV infection can inspire 
dramatic lifestyle improvements that can 
make up for rhe plummeting CD4 count. 
One woman, incarcerated fo r drug 
involvement, rested positive for HIV. 
When her boyfriend died from AIDS 
complications, she began reading 
extensively about rhe disease and offering 
support to fellow inmates. After quitting 


drugs and moving ro a halfway house, she 
came to Nathan Smith for a follow-up with 
Dr. Frankel, who had been seeing her at 
rhe 
women's 
prison 
in 
Niantic, 
Connecticut. At this first visit, the woman 
showed Dr. Frankel what she feared was 
the onset of AIDS: a rash on her hands. 
After examining the patient, Dr. Frankel 
asked her if she had been doing 
housework. "Why, yes. I've been washing 
dishes," the woman replied, a smile 
growing on her face. ''I'm living life for the 
first rime." 


Dr. Frankel's experience stands as one 
of many in which AIDS patient care 
implies more than medical treatment. "The 
idea is ro care, not just cure," remarked Dr. 
Friedland. "Our goal is to provide longer 
life and enhanced quality of life." Doctors 
and patients alike know that, even with 
vastly improved treatment techniques, 
HIV/AIDS runs its course in a matter of 
years. Helping the patient make the most 
of that time has assumed primacy in many 
health care workers' minds, whether that 
means minimizing pain, being a friend, or 
looking out for a patient's basic rights. 


On the second leg of megarounds three 
weeks ago, the thirteen-person AIDS team 
entered the ninth-floor room of a patient 
slated to return ro prison in three days. 
The man lay on his side looking through 
the window at a mist-covered Harkness 
Tower in the distance. Like many other 
patients seen that morning, he had tattoos, 
on his arms, chest, and back. Like some 
other patients seen that morning, he passed 
his days under rhe ware~ of an officer from 
Connecticut 
Department 
of 
Corrections, who sat silently in the corner 
and read a local tabloid. Bur, like no other 
patient seen rhar morning, the man had a 
set of hand-cuffs around his ankles, tying 
him ro rhe bed. Apparently rhe patient, 
who had a history of refusing medication, 
had agitated his corrections officer the 
previous afternoon by walking into the 
hallv.:ay unattended. As the small crowd 
gathered around his bed, the man, in his 
mid-fifties, rolled over and sat up. "I don't 
want to be tied down like a dog," he 
yelled. "This is policy? You cut a man 
open, give him medication, then send him 
to bed with shackles? What is this?" For 
more than ten seconds no one spoke, a 
syndicated "Murder, She Wrote" episode 
the only sound in rhe room. Then Dr. 
Selwyn stepped forward from behind a 
cluster of white-coated interns. "We agree 
with you, and we'll see what we can do." 


Out in the hallway, Dr. Selwyn asked a 
social worker to contact the necessary 
authorities and reverse the decision. Less 
than five minutes later, the corrections 
officer unbound the patient. 


I
n spite of rhe improbability of 
contracting HIV, a number of health 
care workers still avoid infected 
patients, particularly those they consider 
beyond the reach of effective rrearment. 
The more invasive the procedure, the 
greater the risk and the greater the fear. It 
took Dr. Frankel repeated efforts to 
convince a Yale neurosurgeon to do a brain 
biopsy on one of her patients. "Why 
should I do a risky procedure on someone 
who has such a short lifespan anyway?" he. 
asked her. The surgeon had read the 
patient's chart, and he had reasonably


**Title: The AIDS Crisis at Yale-New Haven Hospital**
**Author: David Gerbn**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
interpreted a CD4 count of 60 as evidence 
of approaching death. But once Dr. 
Frankel introduced the surgeon to the 
patient-a hearty and seemingly healthy 
father of two small girls-the surgeon 
immediately agreed to the procedure. 
Many private practice physicians tend 
to avoid AIDS patients for financial 
reasons. Little monetary reimbursement 
awaits them because most AIDS patients, 
especially IV drug users, start out 
extremely poor, and those who do not 
become so as the cost of medical care 
drains their personal funds. This funnels 
the vast majority of AIDS patients to 
university-affiliated, inner-city hospitals, 
like Yale-New Haven. 

There, young doctors and nurses work 
around the clock, fighting in the trenches 
to prolong and improve life. They fight to 
help suffering individuals, to slow the 
phenomenal growth of a world-wide 
epidemic, and to goad the rest of the 
m ~dical profession to action. At som e 
point, though, physician, family, and those 
patients still cognizant recognize defeat. 
No amount of treatment can replace a 
vanished immune system, and AIDS 
patients fall prey to the intensity and sheer 
number of infections that move in as their 
CD 4 counts bottom out. "What I can do is 
help that person make it through the 
transition to their death in a way with as 
little pain as possible, where the family gets 
support, and the patient holds onto some 
sense of pride and dignity," said Dr. 
Frankel. 

Currently, medicine has setded in for 
the long haul. "AIDS is now with us for 
the duration of human history," Dr. 
Friedland proclaimed. Even if a cure 
eventually appears in the laboratory, 
getting it to patients will present a whole 
new challenge. AZT alone costs $3,000 a 
year. Researchers now look for a vaccine as 
the next likely evolution in the treatment 
of HIV. Clinicians, meanwhile, continue 
to enlarge and modify the organized 
response to the present reality: infecctons 
that rack and eventually destroy the bodies 
of their patients. 
li1J 
David Gerbn; a smior in Trumbull Co/kg~. 
is managing ~ditor ojTNJ. 


**Title: Writing the Virus**
**Author: Suunne Kim**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

Activism finds its means through many avenues; the humanities answer the 
epidemic with studies in the representations of AIDS through language. 

T 
h~ audimu filt~rs into th~ Cabar~t in th~ late ~vming on 
D~cmtb~r I, 1994. N~rvous after wulu of 
p~Yparation, th~ 
cast r~adi~s itself for th~ p~rfonnanc~. But this is no typical 
p~rformanct, no typical play b~ing put up by Proftssor 
David Romdn's "Literatu" of AIDS" smtinar students. Tm y~ars aft" 
th~ play's opening at a small th~ater in Altanta, a n~ audimu-at 
Yal~-anxiously awaits this n~w rendition of R~buca Ranson's 
Warren, on~ of th~ ~arlim "AIDS plays" in th~ cou;,try. Giving th~ . 
production a slightly postmotkrn slant, th~ playwright hm~lf sits in 
th~ crowd, whik th~ stutknt playing Ranson agonizes ov~r how shl/l 
r~spond to an inurpr~tation of hm~if Romdn stands up to introduu 
th~ play. Th~ hous~ lights go Mwn ... 

he tenth anniversary reading of ~rrm paid homage to the 
early AIDS play as well as to the little-known writer hersel£ 
Roman, visiting professor of Women's Studies, aimed for his 
26 
students to re-
enact a moment in 
the brief but rich 
history of AIDS 
activist art. The 
production also 
commemorated the 
community-based 
nature of the early 
Sontag 
AIDS art movement. A social worker, Ranson held no great 
literary aspirations. Her play details the experiences and emotions 
surrounding the death of her friend Warren. With its far from 
high-brow origins, the play bespeaks a story of community ritual 
much more than it evokes lofty "high art." "We weren't infatuated 
with the play at first," says Amy Gallo (PC '96), cast as Ranson. 
"We dreaded doing it because we thought it was the sappiest play." 
Gallo's apprehensions dissipated once the lights went down and 
she entered the world of 'Warrm. She describes the potency of the 
experience: "It's not so much about high culture or great literature, 
but about ritualization and localization." 

Despite its marginalized status, the AIDS artistic and activist 
arena itself sometimes fails to acknowledge some of the compelling 
community-based artistic endeavors of the early '80s. Roman 
chose ~rrm foe his class to perform as a symbolic gesture towards 
rewriting Ranson into a history that has excluded her from the 
cultural canon of AIDS art. "She's not in the cultural history 
books. Most people situate the origins of AIDS theater in 1985 
with Larry Kramer's Th~ Normal H~art and Bill Hoffman's As Is," 
says Roman. The introduction of AIDS plays since the dawning of 
the epidemic has served to bring out the human side of a 
biological crisis that has pervaded our society. Roman's class 
participated in a historical moment, recreating and retranslating a 
tale of AIDS told years after its first rendition. The story still 
unfolds. 

F 
ourteen years after the first article about AIDS appeared in 
the N~w York Timu, the epidemic has further embedded 
itself in our consciousness. Scholars have begun to tackle 
AIDS on fronts other than the biomedical one. The staged reading 
of Warrm marks a concrete example of the way that AIDS has 
entered the cultural imaginary. The entrance of AIDS into 
literature and art has been answered by a new field of critical 
study. Theorists of AIDS probe the signification of the epidemic 
in media, literature, theater, and public policy. 

Theorists like Michael Callen, Douglas Crimp, Cindy Patton, 
Paula Treichler, and Simon Watney dominate AIDS critical 
discourse. Extrapolating from cultural and literary theory, 
Treichler presupposes the constructed nature of society'~ 
understanding of AIQS. The notion of a constructed view of 
AIDS departs from the traditional understanding of a disease 
through its biology. The study of the representation of AIDS in 
THE NEW jouRNAL 

various media assumes the 
power of language to construct 
society's conception of this 
crisis. And hence, it assumes 
the power of language to 
destroy the harmful metaphors 
of AIDS. 

Writes 
Paula 
Treichler in the anthology 
AIDS: 
CulturaL AnaLysis, 
CuLturaL Activism: "The name 
AIDS in pare constructs the 
disease and helps make it 
in telligible. 
We 
cannot 
therefore 
look 'through' 
language to determine what 
AIDS 'really' is. Rather we 
must explore che site where such determinations really occur and 
intervene at che point where meaning is created: in language." 

Akin co Women's Studies and Echnic Studies, critical AIDS 
studies renegotiate the metaphorical terms on which AIDS is 
understood. Particularly hard hit by the realiry of AIDS amongst 
its faculty members and in the surrounding community, the 
University of California ac San Francisco has emerged as a hotbed 
of critical thought concerning AIDS. Academia and activism 
powerfully fuse on the UCSF campus in a vigilant effort to resist 
an epidemic that has hit far too dose co home. 

Wich che recent loss of history professor John Boswell, Yale 
can no longer feign ignorance of the reality of AIDS with which 
institutions like UCSF have been contending for years. Several 
classes ac Yale approach AIDS from the arcistic and cultural 
standpoints, joining the ranks of critical study of che disease. 
Although slated as a biology rather than a humanities course, 
Alvin Novick's course, "Biology and Human Affairs: AIDS and 
Society" was first offered 'seven years ago, providing promise for 
future studies in AIDS beyond science. Novick credits himself for 
merging social science with biological science in the course and 
wich the attempt co show studenrs how social attitudes coward the 
disease affect public policy pertaining to AIDS. The move marks a 
radical departure from the traditional ways of looking at 
epidemics. Though developing at a much slower pace than che 
biomedical research conducted at che Yale School of Medicine, 
Yale's social sciences and humanities are gaining momentum in the 
field of AIDS. 

Since che appearance of "AIDS and Sociery" in 
r" subject of AIDS is the person with 
d, gagged, and hidden away behind 
c screens and curtains of AIDS 
which are occasionally pulled to 
order to reveal the elaborately stage-
spectacle of the monstrous. 

-
Simo n Watney 

AIDS from a spectrum of positions. Last semester, doctoral 
candidate Carra Hood (GRD '95) joined David Roman in 
teaching AIDS-related topics with her Women's Studies seminar 
entitled "Women, AIDS, and Identiry." The course focuses on the 
special position of women with HIV, the syllabus including works 
ranging from Sheila Rothman's Living in th~ Shadow of D~ath to 
Susan Sontag's AIDS and its M~taphors. T he course attempts to 
examine che specific problems posed by HIV-posicive women to 
the worlds of medicine, public health, journalism, and criticism. 
Critics more focused on what they call "real life" concerns resist 
highly convoluted theoretical debate. Especially in light of che 
reality of death, AIDS presents itself as much more than an 
academic specter. But Roman defends the work being done in che 
fields of literature and theory: "There are multiple sites of 
contestation in the fight against AIDS," he says. "I don't think it's 
useful for any AIDS activist to give up any site of power, whether ic 
be the health science, or whatever one's expertise is." When he last 
taught "Contemporary American Literature" in 1993, Professor of 
English Wayne Koestenbaum included AIDS and its M~taphors on 
che course reading lise. Fully aware of the indirecmess of Sontag's 
appeal, Koestenbaum asserts chat che academic nature of theoretical 
discourse does not undermine irs significance. "It's always hubris to 
do something without an immediate end to ameliorate suffering," 
he says. "But a lot of good accrues from analysis." Although he 
commits himself to che importance of critical AIDS theory, Roman 
emphasizes che real-life quality of the teX[S explored in his class. 
Many of the cexcs are not nationally circulated and have only been 
noticed by the limited communities from which 
they originate, such as che San Francisco AIDS 
Project. 

fEBRUARY 10, 1995 
27 



**Happy Hour**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
pr.esents 
_ H~ppy Hour 
Monday i Friday 4-7 pm 
All Night Long on 
Wednesdays! 
(Free Food - Cheap Drinks) 
Monday 
Buffalo Wings 
Tuesdays 
Fajita Bar 
Wednesdays 
Taco Bar 
Thursdays 
BBQ'd Meat Balls 
Fridays 
Drafts $1.00 
Well Drinks $2.00 
& Margaritas $2.00 
1125 Db•weU Ave. • Hamden •498-1~ 


**AIDS in the Humanities**
**Author: Suzann~ Gm**

Even Novick, far from a literary critic, . 
acknowledges the power of interpretation 
and representation in the form of social 
mores. "I don't think of AIDS as a 
metaphor," he says. "I think of it as an 
epidemic. And when I go beyond the 
science of it, I do go as far as writing and 
speaking on the effects of social attitudes 
toward people that make them vulnerable. 
When we stigmatize and ostracize 
people-gay men, injection drug users, 
black and Hispanic people-when we do 
that as a society, denying them 
fundamental civil rights, we stress their 
lives. We force them into counterculture 
that often makes them vulnerable to a lot 
of things, including the HIV infection." 

The inclusion of AIDS in t he 
humanities marks how the resistance to 
AIDS takes myriad fo rms. The effort 
manifests itself in two layers: first, in the 
critical analysis of the literature, art, and 
performance, by and about people with 
AIDS, and second, in the application of 
critical theoretical concerns to texts that 
have no explicit discussion about AIDS, 
but still inform our understanding of it. 

Such studies take into account the 
staunchly activist nature of many of the 
works being examined. AIDS discourse is a 
site where art and politics merge quite 
potently. Roman states that one of the 
objectives of his class is to ask, "What is 
activist art? How do we identify work that 
comes out of specific communities affected 
by AIDS? What does an AIDS activist art 
piece look like?" 

T
he overtly activist stance of AIDS 
art runs the risk of bei·ng 
misinterpreted within the highly 
volatile world of the debate over political 
correctness. Recently, dance critic Arlene 
Croce of Th~ N~ 
York~r refused to review 
a performance choreographed by Bill T. 
Jones, who is African-American, gay, and 
HIV-positive, dispensing of the work as 
mere "victim art." Croce's assertion that 
the position of the artist allowed no space 
in which she could critique the 
performance falls in line with dismissals of 
works by other minorities. Of the epithet 
"victim art" Koestenbaum says, "I don't 
want to grant it legitimacy. It's really a 
punishing distinction." 

The national debate surrounding 
alleged "victim art" finds its local 
counterpart in the controversy over the 
Bass grant at Yale. The furor continues to 
grow over the terms and meanings of the 
"western canon" in liberal education. The 
Bass debate raises questions about the 
position of AIDS art and literature within 
an institution like Yale. According to 
Roman, the label "victim art" serves only 
one purpose: to perpetuate rigid 
classifications of art, culture, and 
education. "I don't understand why there 
has to be this sort of binary system that 
situates classical, canonical materials on 
one side as a hermetic group of texts and 
pr!)ducts, and then the writings, histories, 
and materials of 'Other' cultures as being 
two discrete categories that cari't interact 
and inform each other," says Roman. "I 
. don't think it's useful to keep those 
categories discrete. When people do that, 
it seems to me more symptomatic of their 
own investments in policing the borders of 
what counts as art and what counts as 
culture, which is assumed to be 
uncontestatory and naturalized." 

Scholars of AIDS in the humanities 
have not been the first to face opposition 
in the academy. The Bass grant 
controversy raises serious questions about 
all minority discourse. In Roman's 
estimation, scholars in ethnic and minority 
literature and art face the value 
designations assigned to them. "It would 
be unfortunate for those of us who teach 
minority discourse, or the literature of 
AIDS, or lesbian and gay studies, to 
continually concede to the categories of 
value that are imposed upon us," says 
Roman. The place of critical AIDS 
discourse resonates with particular clarity 
as the academy struggles to accommodate 
as well as resist the changes in intellectual 
discourse. 

I8J 
Suzann~ /Gm, a junior in Saybrook Colkge, 
is mllnaging editor ofTNJ. 
THE NEW JouRNAL -


**Managing AIDS, Managing Difference**
**Page number(s): 29**

A
DS discriminates. It strikes along lines of ethnicity, 
lass, and sexual orientation. In New Haven, a city 
dominated by issues of race and poverty, AlDS service 
rganizations must do more than just care for the sick. 
The explosion of the virus in minority communities in the city has 
forced agencies to take into account differences of race, culture, 
gender, sexual orientation, and class. In a small city with a limited 
budget, AIDS service organizations must also vie with each other 
for the- resources necessary to meet the particular needs of their 
targeted populations. 

In New Haven, AIDS is the leading cause of death for men 
between the ages of 22 and 44 and the second most common cause 
of death for women in the same age group. In the greater New 
Haven area, African Americans account for 63 percent of adults 
and 81 percent of children with AIDS. The rate of infection 
among Latinas is increasing most dramatically. The fact that many 
people with AIDS start out marginalized makes it even harder for 
them to live with the disease. "HIV disease in the state of 
Connecticut is clearly a disease that has made its inroads in under-
educated and lower economic classes," says Thayer Quoos, 
Director of Client Services at AlDS Project New Haven (APNH). 
"So it is a disease of class and lack of education, and those groups 
are already overburdened by poverty and the strains of just getting 
by day by day." These problems also make running effective 
service organizations and procuring sufficient funding more 
difficult. 

he demographics of AlDS in New Haven have changed 
drastically since the epidemic began. When the HIV virus 
fiTst surfaced here, it was confined mostly to two 
populations: white homosexual males and IV drug users. APNH, 
created in 1983 as New Haven's first AlDS service agency, offered 
home meal delivery, support groups, a hodine, and educational 
services. Case managers helped HIV-positive individuals gain 
access to legal and medical resources and other general support 
services available in the city. 

Almost all of those originally infected with HN have died, ~d 
New Haven's needle exchange program, the longest continuously 
active program of its kind, has successfully reduced 
infections among N drug users. APNH now mostly 
serves younger gay males of all ethnicities. To 
FEBRUARY 10, 1995 
Hispanos Unidos Contra 
El SIDA/AIDS, INC. 
accommodate the reality that AIDS now primarily affects minority 
groups in New Haven, members of the Latino and African-
American communities have established AIDS service agencies in 
the city. These agencies have tailored their prevention education 
programs and case management services to address community-
specific issues. They do, however, offer services to anyone, 
regardless of ethnicity. 

In 1987, Hispanos Unidos, the first Latino HN/AIDS service 
organization in Connecticut, opened its doors. The agency has 
distinguished itself by its ability to communicate with the Spanish-
speaking community. Language is not the only barrier to helping 
the Latino population. Director Luz Z. Gonzales explains that the 
Latino community's strict Roman Catholic legacy often results in 
an unwillingness to use condoms, difficulty in accepting a diversity 
of sexual orientations, and a reluctance to discuss issues 
surrounding HIV. For many in the Latino community, Gonzales 
says, AIDS represents a punishment: "AIDS means you were not 
behaving properly." 

The dose-knit nature of New Haven's Latino community also 
leads to concerns about confidentiality. Gonzales 
has had difficulty sustaining support groups. 
"Latino people tend not to talk in groups," she 


**Managing AIDS, Managing Difference (continued)**
**Page number(s): 30**

explains. As a result, Hispanos Unidos 
concentrates mainly on individual 
counseling. Those support groups that do 
operate function as discussion sessions for 
women at high risk, so that no one in the 
group knows for sure which members have 
HIV. In these groups, women phrase all 
discussion in the conditional tense to 
maintain complete confidentiality. 

Hispanos Unidos focuses on Latinas, says 
Gonzales, because their tendency to obey 
their male partners increases their risk of 
infection from unprotected intercourse. If 
the system works, women will educate 
both their sexual partners and their 
children in turn. 

Created the same year as H ispanos 
Un.idos, AIDS Interfaith Network 
responds to African Americans' concerns. 
Prompted by a Yale Divinity student, Elsie 
Cofield established the agency immediately 
after retiring from a 31-year teaching 
career in the Hamden public school 
system. AIDS Interfaith found its first 
home in the basement of Emmanuel 
Baptist 
Church 
in 
the 
Dwight 
neighborhood, where Cofield's husband 
was pastor. 

AIDS Interfaith began as a satellite of 
APNH, funded by a $12,000 grant. In 
1991, Cofield sought independence from 
the more established agency in order better 
to serve New Haven's African-American 
community. In a May 1991 newsletter, 
Cofield wrote, "Separated as much by 
culture as by location, AIDS Project New 
Haven and Interfaith have, over the years, 
experienced inevitable organizational 
tensions." Cofield believes APNH did not 
allow her sufficient freedom to address 
those health and educational issues specific 
to African-Americans in New Haven. 

While Hispanos Unidos concentrates 
on issues of communication, AIDS 
Interfaith must be particularly sensitive to 
the poverty and substance abuse prevalent 
in New Haven's African-American 
community. "The black population is 
different," Cofield believes. "Black people 
k now black people. That's how it's 
different, because some people couldn't 
understand the d rug addicts and the 
poverty, alcoholics, people in shelters." 

Cofield split from APNH primarily 
because she felt that New Haven's African-
American population would place far more 
trust in an organization run by African 
Americans and located in an African-
American neighborhood. "Blacks will 
come to me when they're not going to 
"You have to show 
you are costing 
society more without 
the program than 
with the program." 
· anybody else," she says. "I guess because 
I'm black, and maybe because my husband 
is very well-respected in the community as 
a minister at the church for 28 years, they 
have a lot of confidence in coming to 
either one of us.~ Cofield hoped to use her 
location and the influence of the church to 
encourage 
African-American 
community to assume responsibility for 
dealing with the virus. In 1991 she wrote, 
"In the face of this overwhelming 
onslaught in communities of color, it has 
become imperative that the black 
community take greater responsibility for 
stemming the epidemic and caring for its 
casualties. AIDS Interfaith must play a 
central role in bringing that about." 

APNH's image as an organization 
targeted primarily at homosexuals may also 
have led to the split. "Elsie Cofield really 
wanted her own outfit to some degree, in 
part because she felt that too many people 
associated the name APNH with the gay 
community, and therefore many blacks 
were not coming in for services because 
they could not cross that line," explains 
Quoos. Both Quoos and Gonzales point 
out that Latino and African-American 
communities often have difficulty dealing 
with the issue of homosexuality. "Gay men 
of color continue to be a major sourtt of 
concern to us because they are very hard to 
reach. Many of the minority communities 
Tm Nnr Jouuw. 

**Title:  The Changing Face of AIDS in New Haven**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
arc particularly harsh in their attitudes 
towards homosexuality. Many of these men 
tend to be more closeted, more reluctant to 
come forward for services," says Quoos. 
While statistics show that APNH does not 
primarily serve homosexuals, the increasing 
specialization of the other organizations 
has made the image harder to fight. 


Funding is always a crucial issue for 
non-profit organizations, which must 
vie for inadequate resources. The 
establishment of other AIDS service 
agencies forced APNH to compete for the 
limited money available from both the 
federal 
government 
and 
private 
organizations. "This is a hard community 
to pull money out of, and so now if you 
have too many people going after that 
same pot, it makes it more difficult, makes 
services more fragmented or not funded as 
fully as they should be," says Quoos. Alvin 
Novick, professor of biology at Yale, points 
out that the inadequate pool of available 
funding fractures alliances between 
agencies. •It's like introducing a loaf of 
bread into a compound of prisoners of 
war, • Novick says. "If you toss the loaf of 
bread into the fenced-in yard, there's 
trouble." 


In recent years, cooperation between 
the services has increased. Quoos co-
ordinates a consortium of case managers 
who work to avoid duplication of cases and 
to set consistent standards. The agencies 
have also begun to streamline their 
finances by sharing expenses like auditing. Gonzales asserts that competition for 
funding has not posed a problem for 
Hispanos Unidos in the past. As the 
political climate becomes increasingly 
conservative, Gonzales worries that 
funding will be harder to obtain, making 
competition more severe. The board of 
directors of Hispanos Unidos recently 
discussed the distant possibility of merging 
with APNH and AIDS Interfaith Network 
under a single umbrella organization. The 
agencies would maintain their specialized 
programs and continue to target particular 
populations, but would share office space, 
resources, and administrative costs. 


Cofield rejects the idea of centralized 
case management. 'Til never be in favor of 
that, because we live in different areas and 
so do our people. That's why it's not going 
to work, because my people are not going 
to go into other areas. That's been proven 
already." New Haven's distinct neigh-
borhoods, many of which demarcate class 
and ethnicity, lead to a desire to remain in 
the familiar areas. "People live and die in 
the same neighborhoods," says Cofield. 


The poor public transportation system in 
New Haven also requires scattered AIDS 
service agencies. 


The economic and political status of 
the country as a whole will determine the 
survival of AIDS service agencies in New 
Haven. The future of funding for 
organizations serving people with AIDS 
looks uncertain at best. Money for 
prevention and education comes from 
Connecticut's Health and Addiction 
Services Department, while the case 
managers at all three organizations are paid 
through funds received from the federal 
government's Ryan White Title I Fund, 
established in memory of the boy whose 
story forced the country to confront AIDS 
early in the epidemic. "Ryan White money 
is disaster relief money. The caseloads in 
New Haven and Fairfield counties were so 
outrageously high that we have emergency 
relief money specifically for services," says 
Quoos. The Ryan White Planning Council 
in New Haven assesses the need of each 
agency in the city in order to assist in 
equitable distribution of the money. In 
1996, the money authorized by Ryan 
White Title I will run out. Activists across 
the nation are fighting for its re-
enactment, but the current political 
climate makes this unlikely. 


AIDS service organizations in New 
Haven will survive only if they undertake 
statistical studies to prove their 
effectiveness to the government, says Ed 
Kaplan, professor of management and 
medicine at the School of Management. 
"You have to show you are costing society 
more without the program than with the 
program," he says. "The benefits must 
exceed the cost." In the future, ineffective 
organizations will have to be jettisoned in 
order to channel more money into 
programs that work. 


HIV-positive individuals from already 
marginalized groups tend to evoke less 
sympathy from the American population. 
"Racism is still a very strong and ugly piece 
of the American fabric, and that's clearly at 
work here. We hate poverty, but we punish 
people who are poor," says Quoos. "We 
have a backlash against homosexuals going 
on that's also making this very difficult. 
There's a real hateful, punitive way that 
Americans look at sexuality in general." 


Funding for non-profit agencies is 
inseparable from these social issues. "There 
are political and social decisions involved 
that are not necessarily balanced," he says. 
Novick believes, for example, that a 
perception exists among minority AIDS 
activists that power and funding has been 
grabbed by gay white men, who already 
have access to more resources and funds. 
He counters with studies that show that 
the majority of funding now targets 
minorities. 


New Haven has always been at the 
forefront of AIDS service in cities of its 
size. In the future, the changing national 
political climate and continuing 
demographic shifts in infected populations 
will force the city's agencies once again to 
adapt. "Those who are vulnerable, those 
who are infected, and the vast majority of 
those who provide them services belong to 
groups of people whom we disdained and 
whom we still disrespect," says Novick. "It 
will be either a splendid or humiliating 
example of how our society responds." 


That AIDS often strikes marginalized 
groups offers the country a dramatic 
challenge. 


"This Is a hard 
community to pull 
money out of, and so 
now if you have too 
many people going 
after that same pot, it 
makes it more 
difficult, makes 
services more 
fragmented or not 
funded as fully as 
they should be."


**Title: CDC STUDY RESULTS BY SEX, AGE, AND RACE/ETHNIC/IT**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
CDC STUDY RESULTS BY SEX, AGE, AND RACE/ETHNIC/IT 
0.5 
0.45 
0.4 
-~ 0.35 
l 
0.3 
-
0.25 
t 0.2 
!. 0.15 
0.1 
0.05 
o.s 
: 
'# 
0.35 
'1. 0.3 
11 0.25 
2$ 
0.2 
0 ~AU~uw~~~uuwuwu~~ 
0 
18-24 
25-39 
age (yr) 
sex 
Hispanic 
..... -
·o 
·= 
fi 
Black 
~ 
<J 
f 
White 
0.15 
percent positive 
Source: New England Journal of Medicine volume 23, no.22. p. 1540 
according to resting date-most reports on 
adolescents and young adults were 
published in rhe early 1990s and are 
outdated now. 

More available than specific studies on 
university students are epidemiological 
statistics for the overall American 
population. CDC publishes a national 
report for HIV infection and AIDS cases 
twice a year. But even these studies prove 
problematic. In its June 1994 manual, 
CDC outlines both the assets and the 
technical problems with its own reporting 
techniques. For example, all AIDS cases are 
diagnosed using the same case definition, 
which was revised early in 1993. CDC 
considers AIDS testing practices reliable in 
85 percent of all cases, but HIV resting 
techniques are far less dependable. Since 
HIV can take more than five years to 
manifest itself as AIDS, recently infected 
people remain unaware that they are HIV-
positive unless they choose to get tested. 
The latency period between HIV and 
AIDS becomes particularly relevant when 
documenting prevalence of the disease on 
college campuses. Often, people who are 
infected with HIV as college students go 
untested and develop AIDS only after they 
have graduated and reached a new 
surveillance age group. Thus, studies rend 
to underestimate the number of young 
people with HIV. "HIV infection data 
should be interpreted with caution," states 
CDC's manual. "These data provide a 
minimum estimate of the number of 
persons known to be HIV infected." 

Surveillance coverage gains increased 
importance in light of teenage sexual 
activity in 1994. According to CDC, 86 
percent of men and 77 percent of women 
under 20 have had sexual intercourse. Of 
these teenagers, studies predict that one in 
five will likely contract at least one sexually 
transmitted disease by the time they 
become 21. By compromising the primary 
immune defenses in affected tissues, any 
sexually transmitted disease increases the 
risk of contracting AIDS. 

Moreover, education about the dangers 
of sexual activity does not always lead to 
safer behavior. Ga}'le's study of college 
students stares, "H IV infection is present 
on U.S. university campuses, although the 
rate appears to be far lower than chat of 
populations known to be at high risk. The 
potential clearly exists, however, for the 
further spread of HIV infection in chis 
population." Studies of sexual behavior 
have found that young people educated 
about HIV transmission do not always alter 
their behavior accordingly. For instance, a 
report on urban women's sexual behavior 
found that single white women with more 
than 12 years of education are more likely 
to have multiple sexual partners-
which is 
considered risky behavior-than are single 
white women with fewer than twelve years 
of education. Th~ N~w York Tim~s recently 
published a survey of teenagers in Who''s 
Who Among Am"ican High School Studmts. 
The article was entitled "A+ Doesn't Mean 
A-OK." According to the survey, 35 
percent of the students questioned said 
they would have sex without a condom. A 
stunning 83 percent of these students 
believe they have little or no risk of 
contracting AIDS. 

Despite flaws in epidemiological AIDS 
and HIV studies, people seem to need 
concrete n~mbers of cases to grasp the 
extent of the disease and its threat to them. 
While inherently problematic, H IV 
surveillance reports remain important 
because they make HIV infection appear 
less abstract. They illustrate that Yale 
students, many of whom were once also 
listed in Whos Who Among Ammcan High 
School Studmts, are not immune to AIDS. .. 
Ann Sl~dg~ is a fmhpuson in Ezra Stilts 
Co/kg~. 
THE NEw jouRNAL 


**Title: BETWEEN THE VINES Of Laura Ashley and Latex**
**Page number(s): 35-36**

M 
y father jokingly refers to me as The Laura Ashley 
Girl, and most of the Yale community would concur 
with that assessment. Perhaps the epithet stems from 
wearing a few too many floral-patterned long skirts 
that alternate with solid green and brown blazers. The black bow 
that so often adorns my hair doesn't help to diffuse the image. 
Such a breed of English country conservatism, combined with 
a rather quiet demeanor, clashes with the seemingly indelicate act 
of adorning wooden penises with condoms. So when I listed 
Student AIDS Educator among my extracurricular activities, many 
friends raised their eyebrows in disbelief. Some asked "Why?" and 
said, "I didn't think you'd do that sort of thing." Perhaps they 
recognized that Laura Ashley wouldn't want me filling her catalog 
with dental dams instead of rose-filled baskets. 

But my astonished friends never knew Mr. Alford, my fourth 
grade teacher who died from AIDS complications two years after I 
passed through his classroom. 
For his 80 students at the Horace 
Mann-Barnard 
Elementary 
School, Mr. Alford made Grinnie 
Winnies, oval shaped, one-eyed, 
green wooden creatures with 
antennas that awarded good 
citizenship. He created the 
Perhaps they recognized that laura 
Ashley wouldn't want me filling her 
catalog with dental dams instead of 
rose-filled baskets. 
Yellow Book to teach English, in 
which he used the names of all 
his students in sentences that conveyed the basics of grammar. To 
teach creative writing, he challenged students to figure out why a 
close friend of his, "a most unusual fellow," had a white stripe 
down the middle of his head. 

Mr. Alford also encouraged his students to write their first 
extensive research papers, focusing on an unfamiliar country; I 
chose China, with which I associated only the Great Wall and the 
delectable roast pork that I ordered frequently from King Dragon. 
Mr. Alford adorned all his assignments with caricatures of himself, 
his balding head speckled by a few strands of hair. Throughout his 
battle with AIDS which extended through my last couple of years 
of elementary school, he informed us of his progress by drawing 
himself in a hospital bed with the same balding 
head, and a big thermometer protruding from his 
mouth. 

Though the skeptics who couldn't understand my AIDS 
Educator work didn't know Mr. Alford, they knew a friend whom 
I'll call Jeff. Or they knew someone exactly like Jeff, who 
frantically visited me one night at the beginning of sophomore 
year to say that he had had unprotected intercourse. He didn't 
know why he hadn't been more responsible-they were both a bit 
drunk, he said, partly defensively but mostly sheepishly. He 
realized too late that the fearlessness that often comes with 
intoxication cannot protect against AIDS and STDs. When an 
AIDS test six months later revealed that Jeff was HIV-negative, he 
understood that he was lucky. 

The skeptics also didn't know my own sexual blossoming-::-or, 
perhaps more appropriately-deflowering. In the midst of my first 
serious relationship, I considered having intercourse but didn't 
know where to seek advice on birth control. The AIDS Educator 
Program provided a comfortable place to learn about my options 
without 
encountering 
the 
potentially impersonal University 
Health 
Services 
(UHS) 
bureaucracy. 

So when The Student AIDS 
Educator application form 
appeared in my mailbox during 
my sophomore fall semester, I 
opted not to add it to the pile 
that had already accumulated in 
the closest wastebasket. To the questions which asked about my 
previous AIDS educational work, I confessed my inexperience. For 
my extracurricular activities, I listed my residential college council, 
acting, and tutoring. When asked what my strongest personality 
trait as an AIDS presenter would be, I embarrassingly recall that I 
articulated how "personable" I was. For my personality drawback 
as a presenter, I unhesitatingly put "self-conscious." Finally, I 
channeled my meager artistic creativity into designing a poster on 
AIDS communication. 

Soon after my interview with the UHS AIDS coordinator Sally 
Rinaldi, and then-student coordinator Allison Epstein (CC '94), I 
discovered that Laura Ashley was about to be shocked-her Yale 
representative was now a Student AIDS Educator. 

I eagerly but nervously entered the fifth floor of 
UHS for a training session that would occupy 
much of my Friday night and Saturday 
morning. I received the Student AIDS 
Educator Notebook-a large black binder 
full of articles that ranged from the first 
New York Times article reporting a "Rare 
Cancer Seen in 41 Homosexuals" on July 
3, 1981, ·to the New England journal of 
Medicine's 1992 findings on RU 486. In 
the pocket of the binder was the Student 
AIDS Educator Manual that covered 
topics like freshperson orientatio n, 
workshop protocol, and HIV antibody 
testing in New Haven. The presentations 
by Sally, Allison, and other UHS affiliates 
demystified issues from Hepatitis B and 
the cervical cap to self-esteem and stress 
management. Grasping the binder on 
which my name was emblazoned with 
silver marker, I left UH S Saturday 
morning tired but secure in my knowledge 
of AIDS-related information. I recall that 
despite my fatigue, I walked more 
confidently than usual. 

The Educators gathered at UHS every 
Monday night to plan activities and listen 
to educational speakers. We brainstormed 
about a Valentine's Day campaign and 
heard community health educator 
Domenic Maldonado discuss his work at 
the New Haven Needle Exchange. 
Although I always rushed from dinner to 
the 5:45 meetings, I objected little to my 
disrupted digestion. 

Over the next few weeks, I watched 
myself become emboldened as I handed 
out condoms, dental dams, and abstinence 
cards wrapped in pink Valentine's Day 
wishes at Yale Station. I watched myself 
sell T-shirts in the dining hall that 
proclaimed on the front, "See Dick with 
an erection. See Dick with no protection. 
See Dick with an infection"; the back 
asserted, "Don't be a' dick. Use condoms 
with spermicide Nonoxynol-9." Perhaps 
Laura Ashley would have been disgusted at 
my transgression of proper social decorum, 
but I still wore her skirts while I handed 
out red ribbons at Yale Station. 

I 
saw the hawking at Yale Station and in 
the dining halls as a requisite 
empowering of my shy self for the 
main task of the AIDS Educators: the 
presentations to freshp~rsons during the 
first weeks of school. In self-selected 
groups of four, we planned our 
presentations. The year I entered the 
group, the Educators decided to slightly 
shift from their traditional lengthy 
dissertations on AIDS, STDs, and birth 
control to a more interactive format. The 
shift reflected the realization that Yale 
students . often don't practice safer sex 
despi'te their keen awareness that 
protection is crucial. I only had to think of 
Jeff to know that students' knowledge 
.didn't materialize in their sexual practices. 

The new format stressed discussion of 
plausible scenarios-sitting through such a 
presentation might have made Jeff think to 
grab a condom instead of later agonizing 
about the repercussions of unsafe sex. 

After numerous jokes about flavored 
condoms and leather straps, my group 
opted for fluorescent pink Pia-Doh to 
begin the requisite icebreakers. Our 
group's coordinator, Rebekah, held a 
Mr. A. got so upset, 
He yanked at his hair . 
"What?" he cried sadly, 
"Why, I've no more hair there!" 

Art from handouts in Mr. Alford's fourth 
grade class. 
THE NEw JouRNAL 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Robin Ktmpa**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
chunk of Pia-Doh in her hand and passed 
a piece of it to the people with whom she 
shook hands and instructed them to do the 
same. After a number of handshakes, 
Rebekah asked the Pia-Doh holders to 
remain standing while the others sat. 
When Rebekah said that what we had just 
done was not shake hands but have sex, 
the groups often laughed. But when 
Rebekah mentioned that the proud 
possessors of the Pia-doh all had STDs, in 
accordance with the statistic that one in 
four college students will contract an STD 
before they graduate, their smiles 
disappeared. I smiled, knowing that the 
pink globules had made them think. 
Michal, another member of my group, 
then detailed the transmission and course 
of HIV and AIDS; I admired her for 
undertaking a difficult task. The 
complexity and horror of AIDS still amaze 
me, and I feared then, as now, that my 
words could never adequately explain the 
disease or its repercussions. Luckily my 
rhetoric could handle STDs. I passed out 
STD symptom cards to the audience; they 
read the symptoms, sheepishly or boldly or 
laughingly, and tried to guess the STD. I 
either affirmed or corrected their guesses 
and then outlined the treatment for it. In 
speaking, I relished the boldness and the 
confidence in my voice, the one that so 
often remained silent in classes or group 
discussions. 


Passing cervical caps, sponges, 
spermicide, and pills' around the room, 
Sabrina discussed birth control. Sensing 
that Sabrina's presentation was the one 
most students, especially women, found 
interesting, I was frustrated that she had 
only five minutes to explain the numerous 
options. 


Rebekah had the coveted responsibility 
of illustrating how to place a condom on a 
woodie to illustrate AIDS and STD 
prevention; then groups of freshpersons 
could follow along with their own woodies 
and condoms. I admired Rebekah's swift 
execution in a demonstration where I 
often felt acutely slow and clumsy. 


After the presentations, we divided the 
freshpersons into four groups and 
FEBRUARY 10, 1995 
discussed scenarios. My groups typicaJiy 
pondered the hypothetical, but realistic, 
lives of Stephanie and Jim. The scenario 
went as follows: You see Jim hitting on 
Stephanie at Naples on a Thursday night. 
Jim has told you that he tested positive for 
chlamydia two weeks before but has not 
yet begun treatment for the disease. Jim 
often brags that he prefers not to use 
condoms during intercourse and that he 
can convince any woman that he does not 
need to wear a condom. From the way 
I watched myself 
become emboldened 
as I handed out 
condoms, dental 
dams, and abstinence 
cards wrapped in pink 
Valentine's Day 
wishes at Yale 
Station. 
things are going between Jim and 
Stephanie, you suspect that the two of 
them will have unprotected intercourse on 
this night. Jim has just taken a trip to the 
bathroom and Stephanie is alone. Should-
you approach Stephanie and warn her of 
the danger of contracting chlamydia? 


Some students were disgusted with 
Jim, but others understood his dislike of 
condoms. Some students thought 
Stephanie should be informed, but others 
saw such disclosure as a breach of 
confidentiality. I clearly knew that I would 
tell Stephanie, despite other Educators' 
objections that Jim's reputation would 
suffer and that Stephanie should know 
how to care for herself. 


I simply knew that if I were Stephanie, 
I would want to be informed, and 
therefore I would tell her. But I never 
voiced my opinion during discussions-
Educators swiftly learn not to judge or to 
allow their personal opinions to influence 
their presentations. So I simply asked 
questions and allowed students to respond, 
hoping that they would eventually come to 
an informed decision. 


When asked, "What if this scenario 
stated that Jim had AIDS?" students often 
hesitated-! had changed curable 
chlamydia into a fatal disease. Some altered 
their previous answers and others did not; 
I certainly didn't. Although I exasperatedly 
wished I could change the views of Jim's 
supporters, I reassured myself with the 
knowledge that they were at least thinking 
about being the observer, or Stephanie, or 
Jim before they saw the scenario actualized 
in the smoky, pitcher-laden Naples they 
frequented on Thursday nights. 


We ended the presentations with our 
Condom Cards. On pieces of paper we had 
written the steps involved in an evening of 
romance and intercourse. Each freshperson 
took a sign ranging from "A Candlelight 
Dinner" to "Withdrawal of Penis While 
Holding the Base of the Condom" and 
arranged themselves in chronological order. 
Certain steps were fixed-the condom 
always had to be put on before intercourse. 
But other steps were flexible-dinner and 
sleep could take place before or after 
intercourse, as the freshpersons discovered 
gleefully. We were relieved ro find that 
during most of our six presentations, the 
freshpersons arranged an evening of safer 
sex. I just hope they practice it, I thought. 
Bur I was fairly confident they would. 


Spurred by a desire to pursue other 
extracurricular interests and disillusioned 
by the lack of cohesiveness I sensed among 
the Educators, I opted to leave the Student 
AIDS Educators in the spring of my junior 
year. But I feel, with a satisfying twist on 
the old DragTut watchword, that we helped 
protect and inform. I just hope that 
somewhere Mr. Alford is watching me in 
my floral finery and smiling. I know that 
Jeff is. 
18] 
Robin Ktmpa is a unior in Branford 
Colkgt. 
37 


**Title: Our AIDS Inheritance**
**Author: Carra Hood**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

The following essay grew out of discussion in "Women, AIDS, and 
Identity," the seminar the author taught in the Women's Studies 
department last semester. 

W
e have inherited a lot from John Locke. Our concern 
with "identity" and "property," for instance, and 
their "relation," as well as our interest in the 
reliability or deceptiveness of "appearances" all stem 
from his "An Essay Concerning Human Understanding." Identity 
resides in an utterance, "that which he calls himself." Locke is not, 
however, writing about bodies that represent, emit signs, inhabit 
historical narratives. Discerning representation from fact is, 
according to Locke, "difficult to conclude from. the Nature of 
things .... [and) will by us ... be best resolv'd into the Goodness of · 
God." If we could, we might ask Locke just why he trusted God to 
provide this knowledge. More importantly, we might ask ourselves, 
since we no longer trust God in this way, why we turn away from 
the utterance and hold bodies accountable for what they represent 
rather than what they do or say. 


Of course, anyone can say anything. We are not, I suspect, 
convinced that bodies-particularly non-white bodies-represent 
as indiscriminatively, as arbitrarily, as playfully, or as successfully. 
Bodies matter to us, as a consequence of what they represent, in a 
way that words-especially spoken words-simply do not. 


Representation subverts process for no specific reason. Too 
often, the rationale, whether stated or not, is that "they all look the 
same" and "better safe than sorry." At the end of the nineteenth 
century, the subject and object of the moral were racially distinct. 
The lesson, then, was that Americans of European descent are 
better safe from all contact with Americans of African descent than 
sorry, after the fact, when miscegenation had produced a nation of 
mongrels. This turn-of-the-century myth, or apocalyptic forecast, 
presents the construction of "the color line" as a prophylaxis for the 
future, in this case a future characterized by the reproduction and 
continuity of European racial integrity. 


At this time, blackness was construed as biological and cultural, 
something in the blood and contracted through proximity, a 
disease that could be cured and a mark of inherent primitivity. 
Since blackness was embedded in such contradictory 
formulations-it could be in bodies, outside of bodies, passed on 
from one generation to the next by biological reproduction or by 
association-anxiety about its transmission, from those who 
already had it co those who didn't, resuJced in the reproduction of 
cautionary narratives. 


What exactly did white America fear? AJI sorts 
of irrational things. The loss of identity, property, 
economic privilege, and what was considered itsexclusive 
inalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. 
Clearly, abolition did not threaten to dissolve American democratic 
principles, but rather to extend them to a formerly disenfranchised 
group. In a phrase, white America was afraid of being overwhelmed 
by blackness. At the turn of the last century, America was in the 
midst. of a racial panic. Blackness was "spreading," "infectious," and 
"could end up anywhere." Racial panic reconfigured as sexual 
anxiety produced an idea of the future that could only be imagined 
as a reproductive nightmare. 


This is the story we have inherited. It has been recycled, 
reinvented, refashioned to fit the latest cultural panic. It is the story 
that, with its moral epilogue of "better safe than sorry," has been 
· reproduced in our national AIDS text. Although race has remained 
an American .cultural fact, it 'is not exactly the same kind of cultural 
fact it was at the end of the nineteenth century. In addition to 
describing essential characteristics produced by and identified with 
the bodies of for.mer slaves, blackness is understood in the 
twentieth century as a constructed discourse. It is at once 
something in bodies, DNA coded to produce phenotype, and a 
representational system that bodies inhabit, what Barbara Johnson 
calls an "already-read text." In the discourse about AIDS, blackness 
is both metaphor and state of being. AIDS, like blackness, renders 
the future unimaginable. Blackness, like AIDS, represents what 
cannot be represented. 


The conjunction of AIDS and race is not surprising if we 
remember that, since the nineteenth century, discourses about 
homosexuality and blackness have performed the same kind of 
cultural work-"othering" -and produced bodies embedded in 
"already-read texts" that share language, plot, and moral. The 
alignment of these rwo discourses only makes sense, however, once 
we realize that "othering" is not about "others" but about 
representing "them" as "not-us." "Othering" disregards the 
specificity of difference in the process of constructing an 
oppositional relation between what does and does not fit some 
imagined cuJcural identity. The result is an homogenization of 
difference. Despite the incommensurability of race and 
homosexuality, for example, racialized and queer bodies have, as 
constructed "others," both been narrativized as "unnatural," 
"diseased," and "contagious." Even before the AIDS epidemic, 
contact with racial and homosexual "others" represented a threat to 
genealogical continuity. Since the epidemic was first reported, 
however, this idea has reappeared in public discourse, particularly 
..t 
in those contexts in which AIDS is interpreted as 
confirmation for the inherited idea that the future 
of white heterosexual America-the so-called 
THE NEW JouRNAL 

--- Page 39 ---

"general population" --depends on keeping a safe distance from 
these bodies. 


Since the nineteenth century, the cultural production of the 
future-i.e., the collectively imagined idea of the future that 
informs and reproduces national mythology-has required 
synonymous production of identifiable, expendable populations. 
Cultural production, in other words, creates its own excess which, 
for the sake of some sustainable idea of the future, must be 
construed as outside of culture as well as the refuse of culture, the 
negation of culture as well as the delimiting of culture. The theory 
is that the co~product will remain non~contaminating as long as it 
is properly contained. The risk, however, is that containment-
whether geographic, economic, architectural, ideological, genetic, 
epistemological, narrative, or rhetorical-will fail. For more than 
100 years, the moral "better safe than sorry" has been misread as if 
the future depended on the disposability of racialized and queer 
bodies. 


The problem of conceiving a future that would include these 
bodies derives not simply from a lack of imagination but rather 
from an ideologically informed misreading of risk. In other words, 
"othering" produces a confusion of literal and figurative language 
which results in rendering the risk that these bodies presumably 
represent to racial integrity, reproductive continuity, and national 
identity indistinguishable from the risk that "already~read texts" 
represent to narrative coherence. Since the nineteenth century, 
therefore, these bodies have been construed as if they are exactly 
what they represent-not necessarily because they are what they 
represent but because what they represent is useful. 


At this point, it might seem redundant or too obvious to say 
that as a result of a rather unimaginative appropriation of inherited 
categories of racial and homosexual "others," public discourse 
about AIDS has provided another occasion to narrativize the 
exclusion of gay and black bodies from the cultural production of 
the future. Although this statement is redundant, obvious, and 
boring, so are the narratives that it responds to and yet they have 
been rewritten and recontextualized for more than a century. 
Clearly, it needs to be restated at least as often. The future, 
narrativized in counter~discourses, demands it. 


Why is the idea of the future so powerful? Why must the future 
continue to be narrativized as a story of generational succession? 
Indeed, why is the idea of generational succession reproduced as a 
trope for the future? Biblical parables are, of course, relevant. 
Stories, it seems, are not only about reproduction-who begets 
whom-but also constitute reproduction, to the extent that 
subsequent narratives repeat their ante~dents (the story of Jesus, 
for example, taking over the story of Abraham). According ro 
Michael Warner in "Fear of a Queer Planet," "repro~narrativiry" 
removes uncertainty. I am unconvinced that repro~narrativity 
accomplishes this, however, since any idea of the future can 
produce only an insecure prediction-a prediction that is, in any 
case, unverifiable. Rather than removing uncertainty, repro~ 
narrativity satisfies the desire to narrativize the future as if the story 
could map the unknown. Significantly, this mapping occurs not as 
a result of prescience but by retracing the past. If we believe repro~ 
narratives, we believe them because we do not know how not to 
believe them, because we do not know how to think our way out of 
them, because we do not know how to locate meaning without 
proposing an idea of the future even if that future simply 
reproduces the past. In other words, queer and black bodies are 
narrativized out of the future not as a result of any risk for 
contracting HIV. Risk is, in fact, used in public discourse about 
AIDS to legitimize repro-narrativity. Queer and black bodies are 
excluded from the cultural production of the future simply because 
queer and black bodies have always been excluded from the cultural 
production of the future. 


Public discourse about AIDS produces narrative authority not 
only by recontextualizing the past but also by its codependent 
attachment to official science, particularly the statistical profiles of 
risk compiled by the Centers for Disease Control and the AIDS 
education materials distributed by the Department of Health and 
Human Services. Science validates repro-narrativity, however, even 
as it constructs its own repro~narrative. In other words, science 
produces the possibility of imagining a future without AIDS, but 
does not, interestingly enough, produce the possibility of 
imagining a future without AIDS that also detaches the rhetoric of 
risk from "already~ read texts." This is a discourse about progress 
that claims to be objective, factual, indisputable. This is also a 
discourse about deferral, which means that science uses the idea of 
the future to justify its lack of accountability. As a result, the hope 
that science will someday find a cure for AIDS renders the idea of 
thinking about the cultural consequences of constructing 
prophylactic categories as post~apocalyptic. 


Do we have the luxury, in the midst of an epidemic, to 
challenge the assumptions of official science or to critique the 
extent to which statistical conclusions reproduce inherited 
categories of representation? The moral of the story inst.ructs us to 
act as if science is telling us the truth, whether we actually believe 
this or not. Besides, what might it mean, at the end of the 
twentieth century, to act as if science is not telling us the truth? 
Apparently, we have given over to science what Locke lefr to God. 
Rather than discerning representation from fact, however, science 
has authoritatively collapsed them. 


You might wonder what has happened to AIDS if the discourse 
about it reproduces a narrative more than 100 years old which 
perpetuates representational categories even older than AIDS itsel£ 
You might wonder what we are really talking about when we talk 
about risk groups, HN~transmission, and auto~irnmune disease if 
science translates nineteenth~century morality into twentieth~ 
century epidemiology. That is precisely the point. We seem to have 
lost track of the subject in the retelling of the story, in the 
misreading of already-misread texts. 

1111 
Carra Hood (GRD 95) is currmtly compkting h" dissmtttion on tiN 
Kimb"ly &rgalis v. Dr. David Ac" cau. 
39 



**Title: The magazine about Yale and New Haven**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The magazine about Yale and New Haven 
0 
ver the past four years, writers and editors for THE NEW jOURNAL have won all of Yale's top non-fiction awards, 
including the Wallace, Hersey, Wright, and Meeker Prizes. Working for the oldest continuously published magazine 
at Yale means following in the footsteps of past staff members like: Daniel Yergin, founder of THE NEW jOURNAL and 
Pulitzer Prize winner; Jack Fuller, editor of the Chicago Tribune; Anne Applebaum, Warsaw Bureau Chief for the Economist, 
Jay Carney, Moscow Bureau Chief for Time; and Stephen Weisman, Tokyo Bureau Chief for the New York Times. 
Join our production, design, or business staffs and hone valuable professional skills while putting together a slick, 
eyecatching, moneymaking magazine. If you are an artist or photographer, you will rave about how good your work looks in 
THE NEW jOURNAL: we print on fifty-pound stock, not newsprint. 
If you do not believe us, ask one of our faithful readers-we circulate to I 0, 000 undergrads, professors, grad students, and 
local residents, so they are not hard to find. Better yet, come see for yourself. Come to one of our organizational meetings or 
give us a call. 
TN] ORGANIZATIONAL MEETINGS 
Monday, February 13 at 7:00 P.M. and 
Wednesday, February 15 AT 8:oo P.M. 
WLH II3 
Questions? Call THE NEW jOURNAL office at 432-1957. 

