Publication date: April 25, 1975
Volume: eight
Issue number: six

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editor-in-Chief: David Sleeper
- Managing Editor: Stephen Sternbach
- Executive Editor: Michael Jacobson
- Designer: Marla Schay
- Associate Editors: Bob Liechty, Missy Panzer, Carol Eliel
- Production Editor: Jean Benefield
- Circulation Manager: Jim Bick
- Photography: Rick Andelman
- Business Manager: Robert A. Cohen
- Publisher: Brian D. Raub
- Contributing editors: Daniel Denton, Ronald Roel, Stuart Rohrer, Steven R. Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Editorial staff: Robert H. Barker, Sandy Lee
- Business staff: Ginger McCurdy, Angus Gephart, Jon Steinberg
- Circulation Staff: Jack Ryan, Hugh R. Gross, Eric Kueffner, L. Buck Levin, Roger Morrow, Leo Orenstein, Asela Russell, Tony Segal, Ed Troncelliti, Rich Banger Viner, John Yandell


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- comments: John Yandall mediates Edmund Morgan's common sense prophecy; Jon Wiener describes the struggle between police and the law; John Taft reassesses the meaning of a Yale education; Jon Etra throws down his oaten reed and enters the sublime.
- Eugene McCarthy's Unfinished Business - Erik Lazar
- Making It In A "Man's" World - Joann Lawless
- Getting More Friends for the Family - Nancy Kempner Davis
- Wilderness Notes - David DeVeau Sleeper


**Title: Yale's First Women Grads: Making It in a ~~Man's'' World**
**Author:  [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 1**


...[Image/Text on page 1]...


**Title: comments**
**Author: John Yandell**
**Page number(s): 2**

Edmund Morgan does not like to 
think of himself as a prophet. He is a 
professor of colonial history at Yale 
University. He says that he does not 
hear voices. He admits that his pre-
dictions are often wrong. Yet he does 
hold one belief about the future with 
a great deal of certainty. His study 
of human behavior in the past and in 
the present has convinced him that 
the world has paused on the brink of 
its own annihilation. 

Morgan bases his conviction upon 
a simple assumption about the way 
in which people behave toward one 
another. "Human beings," he says, 
"given the opportunity to do some-
thing horrible, will sooner or later do 
it." 

In a world of multi-megatons and 
multiple warheads, the implication is 
obvious enough. "It is now within 
their capacity to produce the utmost 
horror, which is to say the destruc-
tion of the world.'' The knowledge 
that such a capacity exists is only a 
small deterrent. "The balance of 
terror can prolong things," Morgan 
says. "But I don't think it can keep a 
hold on them forever. Human beings 
have behaved despicably often 
enough that you expect them to do it 
sooner or later." It is difficult not to 
interpret such statements prophet-
ically. 

Morgan sees no way of predicting 
when exactly the apocalyptic mo-
ment will arrive. Yet he admits to a 
sense of its perpetual imminence. "I 
thought it would probably happen 
before this," he says. "I decided 
about 1946 it would be only a matter 
of time, probably ten or twenty 
years." He finds no reason for opti-
mism in the inaccuracy of his first 
estimate. He believes that any num-
ber of the current world problems 
could mark the end's beginning. 

A man of inherent modesty, Mor-
gan is surprised, even embarrassed 
that anyone would seek out his belief 
on the issue. He stresses that he 
speaks with no particular expertise. 
He does not consider his view espe-
cially novel. Historically it is any-
thing but unique. "It has only been a 
short time," he points out, "that peo-
ple have thought otherwise.'' 

Morgan is far from the first Yale 
academic to believe in the certainty 
of Armageddon. This university has 
bestowed one of its (presumably) 
highest honors on three such men, 
two of whom were also past presi-
dents: Jonathan Edwards, Timothy 
Dwight, and Ezra Stiles. Yet their 
understanding of how history would 
end bears little resemblance to Mor-
gan's. 

As ordained Protestant ministers, 
they placed their faith in super-
natural redemptive power. The end 
they predicted was a happy prelude 
to the Kingdom of Heaven. Instead 
of nuclear ashes they foresaw a mil-
lenial age, a thousand-year period in 
which Christian saints would rule the 
earth in holy love before ascending 
into glory. 

Such an escatology remains of 
purely historical interest to Morgan, 
who has written a biography of 
Stiles. "My own religious beliefs 
aren't very clear," he says. He ex-
pects instead an apocalypse of whol-
ly human creation. Spontaneous 
effusions of the spirit-Christian or 
otherwise-will never redeem the 
world, as some more optimistic souls 
continue to hope to this day. "I 
guess I don't have much faith in 
that sort of thing," Morgan admits. 

Still, in a fundamental respect, 
Morgan's vision is related to that of 
the colonial Americans whom he 
studies. Men such as Dwight, Stiles, 
and Edwards had little confidence in 
the human capacity for good-quite 
the opposite-they believed in hu-
man depravity, in the power of orig-
inal sin. They took their conception 
of man from the sixteenth-century 
church reformer John Calvin. 

Calvin, a French lawyer turned 
theologian, asserted that men were 
essentially corrupt, selfish, and dan-
gerous beings, "the inmost recesses 
of whose hearts are full of pravity, 
whose eyes are insidiously employed, 
whose minds are elated with inso-
lence-in a word, all whose powers 
are prepared for the commission of 
atrocious and innumerable crimes." 

Morgan has reached a similar con-
clusion based upon a lifetime of hard 
observation. "I think that the Cal-
vinistic view of human nature is a 
realistic one," he says, "that prob-
ably people are all corrupt." 

Is this the message which history 
teaches? "I don't think history 
teaches any message about human 
nature," Morgan says. ''There are 
certainly plenty of examples of hu-
man beings behaving decently-I 
suppose that's the only basis on 
which you can say they're corrupt-
but to expect people to do so all the 
time is something else." 

The extent of their indecency is 
potentially overwhelming. "If you 
could keep before your mind, before 
your consciousness all the time, all 
the things that are happening to 
people all over the world, I think it 
would really drive you out of your 
mind." 

Of course, few individuals, in spite 
of their own depravity, would admit 
that they favored committing the 
largest of possible crimes against 
humanity. "I suppose that if you had 
to take a vote on whether to do some-
thing horrible," Morgan says, "the 
majority would probably vote a-
gainst it." But in this he finds little 
reassurance. "It doesn't take very 
many people to do it now. Sooner or 
later someone, some nut, someone 
who is slightly warped one way or 
the other, will have the power." 

Thus, barring the prospect of di-
vine intervention, the ultimate con-
sequence of depravity must be self-
destruction. Should John Calvin 
suddenly appear through a time 
warp, it seems unlikely he would 
deny the logic. 

And what of the meantime? How 
should we respond to such a pros-
pect? "I guess my answer would be 
that the most one could do is what-
ever things one believes in, regard-
less of what the fate of the world 
might be." 

For Morgan this means doing sim· 
ply what he enjoys, namely trying to 
understand the world as it is. He is 
fascinated by human behavior. He 
finds a tremendous satisfaction in 
scholarship. As Calvin insisted, 
man's natural commitment is to him-
self. "Maintain whatever dignity you 
can," Morgan advises. "It's not 
within your power to transform the 
world." 

He professes no desire to escape 
the inevitable should it arrive in his 
own lifetime. "If they're going to 
bomb someplace I would prefer to be 
in the middle of it," he says. "I'd 
rather not be a survivor."


**Title: New Haven cops in court**
**Author: Jon Wiener**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

New Haven's police department 
under Chief Biagio DiLieto has a 
middling reputation for operating 
within the law. Many claim that it is 
unusually free of "corruption" in its 
traditional forms: graft, extortion of 
free meals and gifts, sleeping on the 
beat, external political influence on 


**Title: Eugene McCarthy's Unfinished Business**
**Author: Erik Lazar**
**Page number(s): 3- [unclear]**

Seven years after the Revolution, 
Eugene McCarthy is out of place. In 
January, 1968 he was in New Hamp-
shire, travelling about the state, 
shaking hands, orating-challenging 
the President of the United States. 
The press surrounded him. They 
took his picture. He was in all the 
papers. Now, 58, he was with me, 
alone, sitting in the belly of a New 
York to Washington shuttle. We · 
went tourist class. 

McCarthy had just finished busi-
ness in the City. He lives in Wash-
ingtori but every week he flies north 
to teach at the New School for Social 
Research where he holds the Adlai 
Stevenson Chair of Political Science.  
I had gone to the lecture the night 
before. New School types filled the 
audito~um: middle-aged, attentive, 
eternally liberal. Professor McCarthy 
went on for two hours on James 
Baldwin's Nobody Knows My_Name. 
A breath of fresh air. 

Academics seemed like a good 
topic to start a conversation. I asked 
him about his job. 
" It's almost over," he replied. "A 
few more weeks and that's it. I'll be 
glad when it's over. All this flying is 
tough work. What about the Chair? 
Oh, I dunno. It's a traditional thing, I 
suppose. There's no real connection 
between the title and me. Adlai and 
I - we don't have that much in com-
mon, you know. 
"True," loffered, " butyouwere 
both considered intellectuals.'' 

life- he was elected to Congress in 
1948- he still retains the look of a 
scholar, conscientiously perhaps. His 
silver hair and blue, vaea.nt eyes 
make him look smart. 

As the plane lifted off and flew cir-
cles over Manhattan, McCarthy ex-
plained his attitude about study: 
"It's good to reflect on things. Like a 
poem or a book. In college I wrote an 
essay on Swift's view of women. Now 
I don't know what relation it had to 
contemporary pr9blems but the 
thought itself was good." He empha-
sized good. ''An example-I once 
taught a course before the war, 
"Readings in Social Thought." 

Years later a student of mine came 
up to me- a real estate agent. You 
know what book he said influenced 
him the most? Vision of Piers Plow-
man- 13thor 14th century. It was 
the only testament I ever had on it." 

McCarthy has little time to read 
now. He is involved in another poli-
tical distraction. Four months ago he 
announced his candidacy for Pres-
-ident with the support of a " third 
force" movement- "The Committee 
for a Constitutional Presidency." In 
front of a thousand students at the 
University of Wisconsin, he recalled 
memories of Chi~go. At that time, 
after Hubert Humphrey had won the 
Democratic nomination, McCarthy 
took a walk. Crossing the street in 
front of his hotel, he entered Grant 
Park where a group of protestors 
with a microphone waited. He stop-
ped for a moment. Turning to some 
cameras, he held up a peace sign. 
After a while, he spoke. 

Now in Wisconsin, McCarthy was 
using the same words. "I have often 
referred to my supporters as a gov-
ernment in exile," he said. "And now 
perhaps our time to return has 
come." He omitted t he closing t hat 
he had used in Grant Park, however; 
defeated and in doubt , he had asser-
ted, " I will speak out on the issues as 
long as I have a constituency. And I 
still have a constituency. " 

McCarthy told me he would stop 
by his headquarters that afternoon. I 
suggested, jokingly, that we were 
flying between the poles of his aca-
demic and political life. "What is the 
relationship," I asked. 
"Another example,'' he said. "We 
suffer now in American politics be-
cause many decisions are made with-
out reference to historical or philo-
sophical reflection. In the entire de-
bate in Congress on the volunteer 
army, there wasn't one reference to 
the classical treatises on the merce-
nary army. Now, at the Constitution-
al Convention, you would have had 
men like Washington, Jefferson, and 
Jay reflecting on what Aristotle had 
to say, or Plato, or Machiavelli. Even 
de Toqueville .... '' 

"Oh, yes," McCarthy said. "But 
Adlai was more ... political. Teaching 
was my original commitment , you 
know. Before I got into politics I had 
intended to spend my whole life in 
the academic world. I was finishing a 
dissertation on medieval history 
when the distraction came on. I 
never got back to it." 

He appeared sad at the thought. 
His voice trailed off, and he turned 
to the window. We were now some-
where over New Jersey, but clouds 
obscured the view of the ground 
McCarthy stared. 

Academics are important to him-
hypotheses, convolutions. Although 
he has been a politician most of his 
" Well which do you prefer," I said. 
" Aeadeinics or politic:J. '.' 
McCarthy laughed. "Oh, I dunno," 



**Gene McCarthy: A Profile**
**Author: Erik Lazar**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
page4 
he answered. "You find some of 
these people who go from academics 
to politics who enjoy the power. But 
I don't think you can sort it out." 
He has another occupation. He 
writes poetry. During the 1968 cam-
paign he was labeled a poet-politician 
for his efforts. The tag had some 
truth to it. During the height of the 
Indiana primary he secluded himself 
in a motel room, scratching out lines. 
His staff, wanting positions for press 
statements, searched furiously but 
couldn't find him. 

Often McCarthy took rides with 
poet Robert Lowell~ his favorite com-
panion. He wrote Lowell a poem, 
praising him as "the double agent of 
doubt, smuggler of truth." Lowell, in 
turn, responded by writing the intro-
duction of McCarthy's only book ot 
verse, Other Things and the Aard-
vark, published after the defeat. 
Extra copies are now sold to raise the 
money for the new campaign. 

"I'm not what you would call a 
full-time poet," he explained. But he 
does have a poet's pride. He was de-
fensive when he said, "But there 
have been a lot of poets who aren't 
full time. Look, evenT .S. Eliot 
worked in a bank. 

"What bothers me is that some 
politicians refer to me as a poet with 
some disdain as if poetry and politics 
don't go together. Abraham Lincoln 
wrote three major poems published 
anonymously. So you can make a 
cheap argument-Abraham Lincoln 
was the greatest President and he 
was also a poet. It doesn't prove any-
thing except that people shouldn't 
go around talking nonsense about 
poetry and politics." 

Over Pennsylvania, the plane be-
gan to descend. Soon we were mak-
ing an approach to the Capitol and I 
asked McCarthy why he is run-
ning-again. 

He didn't answer for several mo-
ments. Then he spoke, his tone 
guarded, political: "When you've 
been in politics for 25 years as I 
have, you don't want to leave it with-
out making a final challenge, espe-
cially when the government is in 
such a state of affairs as it is now. 
Looking towards '76 it is obvious 
that there is a need for something. 
The Democrats are hopeless." 

He recalled 1968, bitterly. "At 
Chicago the party repudiated the will 
of the people. Between Kennedy and 
I, we had captured the majority of 
the votes. And then in 1972 you had 
the McGovern thing. It was essen-
tially a takeover operation. Once 
they had won, they said, now the 
party is us. Well, you can't do that. 
It's a personalization of the cam-
paign -everything I have been 
arguing against for years." 

"But wasn't McGovern represen-
tative of what people wanted?" 

"Well, that depends on what you 
mean. He didn't represent me. I tes-
tified before the platform committee 
in Miami. When I finished, I ran into 
a McGovern man outside who told 
me the platform was already written. 
I said, "Well I'm glad to know how 
much attention my recommenda· 
tions are going to get." 

"Do you really think you can 
. ?" 
wm. 

"Of course. One third of the people 
in this country consider themselves 
independent. They don't believe in 
either party. That's a chance right 
there, isn't it?" 

He was serious until the shuttle 
settled down on the Washington run-
way. When we arrived at the term· 
inal, he reached for the overhead coat 
rack and his white raincoat. Walking 
down the aisle, he straightened his 
tie and changed; once again he was 
the professor, metaphorical and iron-
ical. 

"Winning in American politics is 
like Latin American revolutions,'' he 
TheNewJoumal/April25, 1975 
said. "It all depends on who captures 
the radio and television stations 
first." He smiled at the thought. 

McCarthy has his headquarters on 
1223 Connecticut A venue, the bow-
els of downtown Washington. The 
area is filled with confusion-govern-
ment buildings, business offices, 
small shops, congested streets. 1223 
is hard to find; a small brownstone, 
it is squeezed between two large 
storefronts, a sewing shop and a res-
taurant which sells bread and soup. 

McCarthy parked his car across 
the street, under a No Parking sign. 
"I use this so I won't get towed," he 
told me, placing a rusting Member of 
Congress plate under the windshield. 

To reach the third floor, one has 
alternatives-a staircase or an old 
elevator which occasionally gets 
stuck on its way up. "I usually use 
the stairs," McCarthy said, opening 
the elevator door. "My secretary 
says we might lose the candidate in 
this thing." 

The Committee Secretary is Sue 
Hatt, 68, old, gray, and a socialist of 
sorts. She works at the Committee 
full time, volunteer. When McCarthy 
... 


page5 
walked in, she frowned. "You look 
horrible," she,said. "Have you eaten 
today?" 

McCarthy shook his head, be-
mused by the observation-Ron Co-
combe, a young man who serves as 
Committee Chairman and looks like 
a mathematician, tried to welcome 
McCarthy over the diatribe. 

"Well eat some of this," said Hatt, 
continuing. She pulled a piece of 
bread and a carrot from a pile of food 
on her desk. McCarthy examined the 
offering; he bit the carrot, but slip-
ped the slice into his pocket. Munch-
ing, he disappeared into Cocombe's 
office. 

I was observing the scene when 
Hatt interrupted my notetaking. 
"You don't look like the other re-
porters," she told me. "So don't"ask 
him stupid questions." 

"Like what?" I asked. 

"You know," she said. "Like why 
he didn't support Humphrey earlier 
in 1968. Like why is he like Harold 
Stassen. Just don't ask him any 
stupid questions. He's so intelligent, 
you know." 

I promised I wouldn't and was re-
warded with a tour of the offices. 
They were impressive for a new or-
ganization. Seven large rooms led off 
a twisting corridor. Most were deco-
rated with McCarthy relics from 
1968 and his abortive run in the 1972 
Illinois primary. "Gene McCarthy-
A Breath of Fresh Air" was promi-
nently displayed. New posters were 
due. 

The office is usually staffed by six 
people; only two are paid. Karen 
Gibsen, 20, is typical of the recruits 
for the new crusade. A junior from 
Kent State, she is on leave and works 
at the Committee on weekends. 
Dressed in a turtleneck and cordu-
roys, she bent over a desk, filling out 
notecards for a mailing list. She 
wouldn't stop working to talk. 

"In 1968 I was in Akron Ohio," 
she told me. "Just sitting, watching 
the Chicago riots on TV at home. I 
was sick to my stomach. But I 
wasn't what you call politically 
aware. Whv do I like McCarthy? I 
don't know. I trust him, I guess. 
And I'm so afraid of Jackson.'' 

While McCarthy made phone 
calls, Cocombe explained the Com-
mittee and its strategy. 

"Most of us here came out of Chi-
cago," he said. "We knew then that 
we couldn't work within the two-
party system. Our aim is to prove a 
third force can win. McCarthy is not 
going to go through the primaries. 
We are organizing volunteers all over 
the country, getting petitions to put 
the Senator on the ballot. Then we 
will keep him active through a public 
speaking tour. He's leaving tomor-
row for West Virginia and Mississip-
pi. Do we expect to get on all the 
ballots? Not really. You know, you 
only need 15 states to win." 

"Do you believe you can win?" I 
.asked. "Realistically." 

Cocombe thought for a moment. 
"Oh, reality," he said. "Now that's 
not much fun, is it?" 

The next morning I visited Mc-
Carthy at his home in Georgetown. 
He lives in a large, colonial, brick 
structure on Q Street. I rang three 
times before McCarthy answered the 
door. "I thought it was unlocked," 
he said "The maid usually leaves it 
that way when she goes." 

McCarthy lives by himself, up-
stairs. His study is modest: a bare 
wood floor with two small rugs, a 
writing desk, a kitchen to the side, 
and a wall of bookshelves. These are 
lined with an assortment of political, 
philosophical, and literary works; 
the most prominent are Joyce's 
Ulysses, The Complete Oxford Eng-
lish Dictionary, McCarthy's Year of 
the People, translated into French, 
German, and Portuguese, and, prop-
ped up by a medallion of St. Thomas 
More, volumes of Aquinas. Above 
his desk are two grey ink portraits, 
one of Joyce, the other of Walt Whit-
man. "You know who those are, 
don't you," he said, pointing to 
them. 

At eight in the morning, McCar-
thy was tired. He sat in his desk 
chair, draping his arms over his 
knee. I asked him whether Vietnam 
would be discussed in his campaign. 
He got up and walked into the 
kitchen. "That's a dead issue by 
now, •' the voice came from inside. 

We did not have much time to 
talk, however, as an aide arrived to 
take him to National Airport. 

In the car I asked him what he 
thought he would be remembered for 
if he loses. "Oh, I dunno," he said. 
"The 1968 movement, I suppose. 
Then he outlined his entire Senate 
career-his fights against pollution, 
his early stand against Joe McCar-
thy, his call in 1954 for an investiga-
tion of the CIA. "I took all these 
issues on before it was popular to do 
so," he said. "But really, it's too 
much to go into here." 

We crossed an empty bridge over 
the Potomac. Nearing the airport, I 
decided to ask the forbidden ques-
tion. "Senator, do you really want 
to be President?" 

McCarthy, as predicted, winced. 
"What it comes down to is whether 
I have the desire to be President or 
not. People in the press would say I 
don't have the desire. But they also 
say-look, he's like Harold Stassen. 
But I don't think it's necessary to go 
around with your tongue hanging 
out saying, 'I want to be President.' 
People like Walter Mondale say they 
can't stand living out of Holiday 
Inns. Well, I don't mind them a bit." 

National Airport was empty. A 
few people recognized McCarthy as 
he passed through the lobby. They 
stood at a respectful distance, star-
ing. Bu.t most didn't notice or seem 
to care. McCarthy sat down in a long 
row of vacant seats in the departure 
lobby, waiting for his plane to Cum-
berland. He began to scribble notes 
on the back of an envelope. It would 
be the substance of a speech he 
would give later at a labor union 
meeting. 

When his departure was an-
nounced, he put the envelope in a 
brown leather valise. On it, printed 
in small gold letters, were the words: 
Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of 
Happiness. "Well, fella," he said, 
getting up and extending a hand, 
"Good luck." It was a final ironic 
gesture. He then turned, disappear-
ing down a long marble corridor-
alone. O 
Erik Lazar is an editor of TheY ale 
Daily News Magazine. 


**Making It in a ''Man's'' World**
**Author: Joann Lawless**
**Page number(s): 6**

For the past two months, I have been treated to 
lunch five times and dinner twice at the New York 
Yale Club, by classmates making from $17,000 to 
$20,000 a year their first four to eighteen months 
on the job. I have had intense, serious discussions 
over cups of tea and cappucino about work, sue· 
cess, power, the balance between career and per· 
sonallife, and Yale's influence or lack of it on 
these questions. I have interviewed three bankers, 
two lawyers, four law students, several graduate 
students (in Chinese literature, American history 
and public health), a librarian, an economist, an 
assistant to a theatre producer, a magazine editor 
and an advertising consultant. Second hand, I 
have heard about two classmates who started a 
half-way house for the retarded, a legal aid lawyer 
busy sixty hours a week, a Wall Street lawyer who 
worked the Fourth of July, an actress whose 
answering service says she's in Hollywood, a poet 
who founded an experimental literary magazine, 
a former feminist who had a church wedding, a 
lending officer who took a course at Cordon Bleu, 
a secretary in a factory married to a foreman, two 
typists who denied they were just "typing, 
11 an 
heiress working on a documentary of the Ameri· 
can Nazi Party, a psychiatrist at a V.A. hospital, 
an editor of Viva and a writer whose first book, 
Memoirs of a Yale Woman was rejected after two 
drafts by Harper and Row, and who is writing her 
second, Memoirs of a Cleaning Woman, while 
driving a school bus. Everyone was frank, en· 
grossed in our discussions, eager for gossip about 
other classmates and generous with credit cards. 

The fact that everyone I interviewed was fe· 
male should not be surprising; Yale women are 
used to considering themselves the equals of their 
male counterparts, and used to being written to 
death in the media. What did surprise me was that 
so few women were devoted to their work (ob· 
sessed with it, if you will). All were anxious about 
success; but few could put conflicts about com-
petition with lovers and husbands and the diffi· 
culty of combining careers with children out of 
their minds. Some even seemed tormented. The 
men they knew (and their male classmates) 
worked first and worried, if at all, in their spare 
time. 

Yale's ftrst "coeds" transferred into the 
junior class and graduated in 1971. In an article in 
the New York Times Magazine, April13, 1969, 
"How Yale Selected her First Coeds," the appli· 
cants were described as "a female version of 
Nietzche's Uebermensch" by author John Lear, 
'70. For some reason, that phrase stuck. "Coed" 
didn't. In presenting this view of the class of 1971 
and their work, four years later, I must confess 
two biases: I wanted my classmates to be 1) 
strong women and 2) happy people. I did not, I'm 
glad to say, meet any superwomen. 

Karen, the first and only woman attorney 
' • 
in a small Park A venue firm, met me in one of 
those East Side restaurants where you can't linger 
over your $2.50 hamburger. She loves her work, 
but said, "I do see my career as hopefully inter-
rupted. I don't feel a conflict between personal life 
and career, however, since I haven't had to deal 
with it yet. The men I know, my colleagues, see no 
interruptions." She spent the rest of lunch com· 
plaining that her job is to a large extent her iden· 
.1
tity-she has found few male counterparts who 
can hold their own against her, and this makes her 
uncomfortable. But then she adds, "there's no 
question that my attitude is very sexist. 
11 She 
assumes that any man she would marry would be 
more capable than she is; otherwise, she wouldn't 
give up her career. 

Anne, a lending officer in a New York bank, 
A
met me in the middle of a crisis -an African com-
pany she oversees was crumbling. "It's been a 
harrowing morning, but I'm challenged by this." 
Since Yale, where she lacked confidence among 
male "magnas and summas" in an intensive 
major, she has come into her own, says a col· 
league, and "will make a magnificent banker." 



**Title: Yale Women: A Ten-Year Report**
**Author: Joann Lawless**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
-; . 
.... 
TheNewJoumal/April25, 1975 
She assures me that she and her husband share 
the household tasks "absolutely," but she is wary 
that, in a few years, having a child may be the 
easy way out for her-"If I don't get the next pro-
motion. People I train with now would 
be moving ahead of me, but that doesn't bother 
me, as long as I'm doing something interesting." 
Although she and her husband, an investment 
banker, make nearly equal salaries, she feels a 
severe area of conflict would arise were she to 
make more. Her husband's career is "more impor-
tant, and that doesn't bother me." 

Stephanie, currently unemployed, lives a few 
miles from her parents' home in Brooklyn. She 
enjoys pottery and gourmet cooking, and dreams 
of a studio in southern France. "Someday I'll be-
come a famous potter." She and her husband, also 
a Yale graduate, hope to have children while they 
are young, and she hopes to return to school, al-
though she's not yet sure in what field. "I give 
myself six months to figure out my life," she said. 
Since graduation, she has worked her way up in a 
small pharmaceutical company from $130 a week 
typing to over $10,000 a year as right hand woman 
to the president, in charge of advertising, doing 
bibliographies, etc., all skills she learned on the 
job. "I just killed myself there ... l'd still do typing 
when it was needed; that was my problem, they 
relied on me too much for too many things. It was 
exhausting. I came home one night at 7:30, de-
cided I was about to have a nervous breakdown, 
told my boss I was quitting, then stayed a month 
and a half longer." She says that none of the em-
ployment agencies in her current job search recog-
nize that she has any skills, except typing. 

"When I made my first film, I was utterly ful-
filled, more than any other experience of my life. 
Since then, well, I've never really wanted to com-
mit suicide .... " Barbara could laugh, but her irony 
concealed the bitterness of three years of writing 
up budgets, submitting grant proposals, winning 
grants, meeting important producers who think 
highly of her work -and nothing but debts and an 
increasingly spotty if impressive resume to show 
for it. Now she works full time at a clerical-
computer job at a prestigious bank, where she was 
able to convince them-with the help of her Yale 
credentials-that she was serious about a banking 
career, after a "fling" with the arts. She edits her 
film at night and week-ends when she can wheedle 
equipment, and feels increasingly schizophrenic 
nine to five. 

• • • 
None of the men I talked with sounded 
"schizophrenic." None, when asked how they saw 
themselves in five years, mentioned fathering a 
single child. Like Karen the attorney, they defined 
themselves in terms of their work; unlike her, they 
did not see this as a problem. Most were trying for 
the same balance between work and personal life 
as were the women, but all seemed to be able to 
draw on a reservoir of seU-confidence, or at least 
the life-long expectation that they would support 
themselves. 

The relative lack of confidence of their female 
classmates, even those making $20,000 a year, led 
me to ask: did Yale make a difference? The partic-
ular strengths and quirks of the school itseU don't 
matter-and the peculiar situation of thoee first 
years of coeducation must be kept in mind. They 
were strange years, for everyone. What is impor-
tant is the differential impact of Yale on women 
aDd their future achievements, or lack of tbem. 
Almost without exception. the womeD with 
· whom I talked said they had 1101 ~deeply 
involved in academic or profeeaioaaJ pursuits • 
uncleqp'aduatea. Most__.. either too busy meet-
inc exdtinc people and &oviDa it or fOWid their 
c:ounee, pofu~ aDd classmates dull 
. 
' . 
... 
.. ' : ·;·· . 
. · 
·. 
~ 
I r 
RRR 
0


Granting that, interviews indicate that the 
male vs. female experience at Yale was more sim-
ilar than different. Certainly the sex dichotomy is 
less applicable now, as women become fully inte-
grated into the university. Some students work, 
some don't, some students become more confident 
in four years, some less. But, academic life aside, 
no male students ever said to me, and I expect 
none will, "It was a big blur in my mind. I can't 
speak of those years." Men articulated specific 
experiences at Yale, positive or negative; women 
talked reluctantly about "lack of space to grow" 
or "confusing kalaidescopes," or refused to talk at 
all. One reflected, "At Yale I had no women 
friends. I felt disjointed. It was an identity prob-
lem I wasn't aware of- I was just one ofthe 
guys." This remark kept recurring as women dis-
cussed work, college, graduate school, and their 
intellectual lives. Even morestrikingthough, was 
that no one, except me, seemed bothered by the 
phrase, but proud of it. 

The women who did have a positive experi-
ence at Yale in those first confused years seem to 
have transferred from womens colleges, especially 
Vassar, Smith and Wellesley. There were 32 
women from Wellesley alone, out of 177 women in 
the class of '71. 

To the usual complaint about Wellesley's 
dorm dinner conversations on mixers and ward-
robes, one woman added, "Wellesley produced the 
perfect corporation president's wife. I wanted not 
to be the wife but the president." 

"I detested Vassar," another said. "Those 
were the two most miserable years of my life; 
while at Yale, I thought I really loved it. The dif-
ference between Vassar andY ale was not the 
quality of the courses but the quality of the bull-
shit; I'm sure Vassar was not as bad as I remem-
ber it." 

Yale, it seems clear, both encouraged and dis-
couraged women's career motivations. At Vassar, 
said a banker, "I saw the nice passive model, you 
know, from the class notes, Susie has her second 
child, her husband is in grad school. Yale changed 
my ideas of what I could do with my life. No one 
would ever ask a male graduate to sit down and 
type .... Yale gave me more of a backbone, made 
me more of a man, a leader." 

But another, who had just won a prestigious 
clerkship, complained, • 'Yale screwed me royally 
on career advice; there was none, or it was erro-
neous. All the guys I knew were doing better-I 
got demoralized." The anti-city, communal. "Con-
sciousness I II" atmosphere of the time, said a 
classmate, was partially responsible. Since the age 
of thirteen, she had wanted to attend law school, 
but Yale muted her interest. "Though I grew up in 
New York, I became anti-New York, anti-career. I 
was very confused. At Yale I saw men organizing 
projects, and said, 'why can't I do that?' I spent a 
lot of time flyina around, diaperaiua energy- I 
... unbappy aDd felt cbeated iD 
that way. But it's not udusively a female thiDg. 
Nobody did a damn~ 
except a few people who 
stood out. You did Me men makinc contacts you 
couldD•t make, a v.-y few meD .. but yoa dic:'D•t see 
C 197• . G.B.Trud•uldislributed by Universal Press Syndicoo~ 
women making any. If women were compulsive 
workers, they did nothing splendid." Several men 
told me that they were offered jobs or fellowships 
through these contacts; none of the women did. 
"The old boy system works," said another class-
mate, "if you're not a girl." 

If many women were not inspired by academ-
ic work, or by professors, or by career possibilities, 
were they motivated by each other or by women's 
groups? (After the first year of anonymity and the 
10 to 1 ratio, there were scattered "consciousness 
raising" groups, a tiny organization called the 
Sisterhood, and an abortion law suit campaign.) 

Only a handful of women said they had been 
directly influenced by or had any contact with 
"the women's movement" such as it was. Most 
said, however, that they felt indirect influence 
through friends and reading. One former sociology 
major described herself as "sort of dikey. I was 
much heavier-we always wore jeans, never 
skirts, these issues were all we talked about." She 
did a senior year study of her classmates and their 
"self-actualization as a function of their social 
life." She found the most confident women had 
steady boyfriends; the least confident, those seek-
ing psychiatric help or having nervous break-
downs, led "normal social lives" -dating several 
men, a telling comment on the "normal social life" 
at the time, for both men and women. Speaking 
about the movement now, she said, "either I be-
carne disenchanted, or I took what I could get, and 
there's not that much more the women's move-
ment can offer me." 

A lawyer denied being affected by the move-
ment except that her mother no longer nagged her 
for not having two kids. A friend told me later 
that she had organized a women's tennis team and 
had been instrumental in the discrimination suit 
against the New York Yale Club. About the tennis 
team, she had said, "It was hard. I was annoyed 
we got so little support. In a way, it was good, 
because we really worked for what we wanted. But 
it shows the male Yale prejudice that women 
shouldn't be so competitive." 

The classmate who expressed the moat overt 
feminist beliefs, a photography professor and the 
first and only woman in her department, con-
cluded, "I think it will be uphill all the way. 
Women in academia (or the professions) won•t 
have it easy in our generation. But I'm gonna 
fight." She flew in from the midwest this past 
semester to teach a seminar in Calhoun Co1Jeae 
once a week. 

In short, I found both the women's move-
ment and Yale's influence on women's career 
choices minimal and indirect, with the one or two 
exceptions of those who said, "Y a1e ch.ansed my 
entire life." Yale's seeming lack of impact, ~or 
imagined, is either understandable or criminal, 
depending on your point of view. It comes riPt 
down to how seriously Yale eDCOUrageS leadenbip 
in women u ,reD u men. Suppoee aD the JDeD iD 
the class of '71 said Yale bad DO iDftueDce OD 
them? 


--- Page 8 ---

\ 
weu. poe> 
ANY bFWHAT 
.:Z:'VE SA/0 
HAI\'E SeNSE 
"' 70 y{)()? 
C> 1974. G.B.Trudeau/ dist.ribut.ed by Un.iversal Presll Syndicate 

What did emerge was a pattem of stnJDa 
prior enc:ouragemeDt by a womaD's family • ..,. 
page7 

seemed to make a difference in motivating women 
to pursue a career. Several said they were their 
"father's daughters"-"Everyone always said I'd 
go into business, like my father," -or brother's 
equals-"I grew up with the impression that there 
was nothing I couldn't do, I never considered not 
working." 

But sometimes even these strong incentives 
were confusing. The same woman who said her 
role-model was her professional mother, an ac-
countant, so that "Women's lib" wasn't necessary 
("I'm already what all women should become, 
someone who expects to work, to have a career") 
revealed later that unlike her boyfriend and former 
classmate, she didn't see her fulfillment in life 
coming from her work. "There's no work I could 
do that would make me forget lunch." She was 
especially jealous, however, of his high-paying, 
prestigious job in computer analysis, since, "We 
had identical educations .... ! helped him do his . 
computer homework." Now job-hunting, she says, 
('I don't think I'll ever produce as vital and as true 
and as smart an image as he can." But, " I 
wouldn't want his job, boss or company. I don't 
want to put up with what he puts up with." 

Like this woman, many classmates both were 
jealous of and spent a lot of time denigrating men 
they felt were over-absorbed in work. In fact, 
women talked less about how they themselves 
were working than how they saw their friends, 
lovers and classmates working. "This compulsive-
ness is disgusting beyond words," said a third 
year law student. A devoted jogger, she proudly 
showed me a T-shirt she had won in competition 
then went on to complain of the lawyer she knew 
who wouldn't talk on the phone to an old friend in 
town, let alone visit him, because he had too much 
work on a Sunday night. ·"Obviously I have no 
intention of having no personal life outside my 
work," she said "There's a lot of pressure in that 
direction, I'll have to confront it. I do worry a lot, 
yet I want these things. Status-it means a lot to 
me." 

A graduate student in history complained 
that all the men she knew, too, were in a frantic 
clutch about "success, reputation, name, being 
good. It is devastating." But what attracts her in 
men? That same intensity. 

After twenty-five interviews, this jarring 
ambivalence began to get to me. When asked how 
she saw herself in five years, for example, a third 
year law student said, "I could with equal 
probability be married with four kids, not prac-
ticing law, and so sublimely happy, or so into my 
work that I 'd not have time for men; more likely, 
I '11 be living with a supportive man, combining 
work and private life, with the major variable how 
much time he would give to his work." His work, 
again. 

Over and over, women insisted that the men 
who found their identity in work were immature 
and shallow. "They think they're hot shit; they 
aren't worth beans. Women are more flexible. Suc-
cess depends on emotional relationships. It may 
be a female characteristic. I can't stand brown-
nosing by men." But after criticizing the apple as 
TheNewJoumal/April25, 1976 
full of worms, they went on to say they wanted a 
bite, a big bite. This lawyer, for example, 
described the seductive game-playing by women 
wishing to get ahead in a firm with a fascinating 
mixture of bravado, fear, pride, and anger, careful 
to mention her own attractiveness, and ability at 
the game. She did not see herself as brown-nosing. 

Other women spoke of using their sexuality to get 
ahead, always attacking male chauvinism in the 
same breath. 

A completely opposite reaction came from a 
woman graduate student who kept secret the fact 
that she was living with a man because she would 
be "defamed" in her department as a "loose 
woman." Then she told me a story which made me 
understand her paranoia, and seemed to sum-
marize a lot more. She made me promise to change 
all the facts, so I wouldn't embarrass anyone, 
"since everyone in the grad school knows this 
story." 

A woman passed her comprehensive exams 
with distinction and was an outstanding 
member of her department. Then she didn't 
do well on a minor language exam, nothing 
crucial. Thirty-one, and "losing her looks," 
she felt she would have nothing if she failed at 
academia. She flew off to Argentina, married 
a man she had dated but hardly knew within 
two weeks, and had a baby within a year. 

Is it the "fear of success" in bright women, 
documented by Matina Homer, president of 
Radcliffe, or simply the fact that a woman's four 
or five best child-bearing years occur while she is 
in graduate school, or supposedly striving for her 
next promotion? One lawyer, whom other class-
mates describe as ambitious if not calculating, 
said of her desire for children: "I want them. If 
you fear death ... children leave links behind you. 
Without children, you're apt to be very lonely, 
dependent on your husband. A friend of my 
mother's is really quite miserable. It might be a 
bad thing to miss-you're better off with them 
than not." She has not found very many men she 
wants to date, let alone marry. 

I don't want to give the wrong idea. The other 
side of ambivalence is balance, however shaky. Of 
course, feminists and calculating career women 
can have children and do. Many of the women I 
talked with seemed to be achieving a compromise 
rather than dwelling on dualities. Or were they? 

A graduate student said, "I'm seeking the 
great wholeness-relationships you care about, a 
profession you love-so you don't get obsessed 
with the relationship, and don't get fanatic about 
work-it's a delicate balance, a little skewed in my 
case." She added that she neither performed as 
well in the clutch nor took her work "with ultimate 
seriousness" as did her male colleagues. "They, 
especially my professors, see my desire to teach at 
a community college with my Ph.D. as a 
cop-out-I see it as a potential means of balancing 
what I want out of life." 

Is it balance or cop-out? A lawyer making 
$20,500 tells me, dark circles under her eyes, "I 
very much like what I'm doing. My husband is so 
nice. If I weren'tmarried, I'd be miserable-dating 
all the time-it's so distracting." She says the job 
has taken its toll; she's not sure she would be 
working if it weren't for her husband's debts. "I'm 
obsessed with competition at this point; women 
leave because they no longer desire to compete. I 
don't care if I don't become a partner-it's a rat 
race-I work almost every weekend. I've decided 
to stop, even though I have an overdue memo for a 
partner." Is she copping out, or being sane, so she 
can get some sleep? 


--- Page 9 ---

TIN NewJoumtJll April26,1975 
Janet, a graduate student, said, "I have the 
same ideal of satisfaction with a man and my 
work. It's a terrible conflict-there's only so much 
time. I find myself acting like a man, relegating 
my boyfriend to second place. I'm brittle and 
grouchy if it's just my work alone ... On the other 
hand, I haven't done as well this year, maybe I 
didn't get something finished because I was 
cooking a meal." This dialogue followed: 
J: • • Academics will never be my whole life, 
fanatical as you may think I am." 
P, her friend: "What I meant by your 
fanatical devotion to your work was your 
brilliance in scholarship. Everyone admires it." 
J: "Who me?" 

Is this balance, or lack of confidence? 

Indeed, some of the women who were the 
most "ambivalent" and whose statements were 
the most contradictory expressed the most 
interest in money, prestige, success, and power. "1. 
have vast aspirations," said the same laWYer who 
saw herself as possibly barefoot, pregnant and 
blissful. "Either I'll conquer the world, or find ful-
fillment without status and external consider-
ations. I'm interested in politics, the men I'm 
attracted to are powerful politically, I'm attracted 
to power. It sounds inhuman, I don't like what it 
says about me as a person." 

She also feels she threatens men, which other 
classmates reiterated. "They're afraid in the 
crunch I won't play mommy, and I'm afraid I 
will-that's why I come on so aggressive and 
independent." But she feels no guilt about making 
money, or "making more than my husband. In 
theory it wouldn't be a problem, in fact it would, 
unless we're both making over 100." $100,000 a 
year, that is. 

She then observed that men she knew who 
were doing spectacular work were only now 
"toying with the possibility that a woman might 
make a difference. Basically my male friends have 
never been in love, now they're feeling a sense of 
loss, and coming to the realization that they'd like 
to compromise." 

Perhaps both men and women can achieve a 
compromise, coming from different sides of the 
sexual gap, or chasm. But women need to not only 
work out the nitty-gritty details of childcare and 
part-time work in juggling career and personal 
life, and to find men who are not threatened. They 
BOY. Nf.L 
GOIN6 -ro reEL-
stu.)' ASIQNG FOR 
A 6RtU.Ct>~ 
.SANDWICH. 
C> 
c:> 
also need role-models, and they aren't finding any. 
"I wish there were someone fifty years old I 
could look up to," said one banker. "I was terri-
fied when I came here (the branch where she heads 
the credit department): it's been really gratifying, 
they've had a lot of bitchy women, one who 
screwed her way to the top, another who was 
eccentric, incompetent, flighty; I like to think I've 
shown them I'm competent, feminine, not 
threatening, one of the guys, but a lady too, and I 
get the work done damn well." 

Besides role-models, she-and others-kept 
telling me they needed house-husbands. "There 
sure are enough men around who don't want to 
work." I didn't find any candidates among the 
men I asked. "I enjoy my work," she concluded. "I 
do as much as I have to do to get a good job done. 
I'm not married to it." 

In all my interviews, I found only two women 
who were "married to their work" and who did not 
find that questions about ambivalence and 
balance struck a raw nerve. They were both single, 
slightly overweight, and had a sense of irony 
about themselves. There the resemblance ended. 

Peggy, a banker, drank glass after glass of 
club soda with lime until I lost count and we were 
the last people in the Yale Club. She wheedled free 
cake and a carafe of wine effortlessly from the 
waiter, insisting over and over how much she 
loves her work. "I don't find anyone else who 
does, I feel very self-conscious, like the dynamic 
business lady, par excellence, the weirdo in the 
group. I am competitive by nature, I want to 
succeed, and be recognized as the best in my 
field." Every once in a while, however, she con-
fessed, she'll get up late, "have lunch at the Plaza, 
go to a matinee, meet a friend for tea, isn't this 
lovely, a suburban lady you know, I've nothing 
against it if it's conscious choice, and then I 
realize, it's nice for one day, not for five. I live out 
my fantasies to get rid of them." 

She described a possible marriage between 
two travelling bankers; "If he works in D.C., me in 
New York, we'll meet in Philly." She said that the 
secretaries in her office were appalled at her joke 
about preferring goldfish as pets to children, and 
told how, after a fiasco weekend interview her 
senior year at a southern Law School, the only 
"girl" applying for a prestigious fellowship, she 
sent copies of Sisterhood is Powerful by Robin 
Morgan, inscribed to all the faculty wives. She 
didn't get the fellowship. 

"I'm a very junior person, I haven't yet 
reached my prime; when I'm forty, I'll be 
formidable in the best sense." She is formidable, 
ushering me out of the Yale Club. "All my friends 
and I , we're frightfully traditional Old Blues, with 
all the characteristics that go with it, almost 
ethnic characteristics, bankers, analysts, laWYers, 
and doctors, conventional. 'Oh my goodness, it's 
happened to me,' we say." 

Nancy and I talked in her bright red 
Victorian house filled with paintings by one of her 
roommates-large, colorful nudes, crouching, 
standing, staring. She works with a radical group 
organizing in New Haven, does economic research 
for two professors part-time to support herself, 
and writes. "I write because I want to leave some-
thing behind me- and I probably won't have 
children.'' After graduation she did part-time 
clerical work and edited a local radical newspaper 
for a year and a half, then went to the London 
School of Economics for a masters degree in 
economic history. 

In the last three and a half years, she said her 
attitude toward work has "changed passively." 
While doing clerical work, "I knew it wasn't a 
terrific job but I never sought anything else. 
page9 
Politics was the thing I was doing, where most of 
my energy went." After her stay in England, she 
decided she wanted to get paid doing work that 
would give her energy rather than take it away. 

Her room on the porch has bay windows on 
three sides; she turned frequently in her desk 
chair and looked out over the tops of the trees. "I 
see my life as not without conflict but if I hold to a 
steady course-my own-not a ready made 
cubby-hole-my work and my political life will 
continue to be interwoven." As an example of this 
she said she anticipates a union organizing drive 
at Yale in the next year. She is learning secretarial 
skills at night school so she can get involved by 
taking a typist position. In five years she is not at 
all sure what she will be doing but hopes to 
continue "acquiring skills. I want jobs that will 
teach me things-I'm interested in labor, 
economics, history." Her only security, she said, 
is her ability to work. 

"I see myself as a single person the rest of my 
life." She looked directly at me again and said she 
wants enough money so she can buy property, a 
house, as security when "I'm old and sick and 
crazy." She laughed. "I've definitely changed." 

Marriage, she feels, is an appealing option for a 
woman because it has traditionally provided that 
security. 

While we talked a man she had introduced 
earlier as a friend from Holland came in, took a 
shirt from the closet and left with a book. 

Blushing and laughing excitedly, she described 
their relationship. "Our roles are completely 
reversed. It's almost too funny. I don't just mean 
tasks. He's supposed to be here working, but-" 
she laughed again, then became serious. "I'm the 
one who needs emotional support and he doesn't 
mind being the person giving it, intellectually he's 
in my orbit rather than me in his. It feels so 
natural; this must be right for me. But sometimes 
it comes over me, 'I'm getting away with some-
thing. This isn't how it should be.' But I'm really 
happy it is." 

For a while we talked about writers we 
liked-Proust, Doris Lessing, Simone de 
Beauvoir-and joked about taking down the 
names and addresses of our rich classmates. By 
now I had thrown away my questions about power 
and success, but I still wanted to know-how is 
she certain when she's on "her own course?" 

"When I'm not going a little crazy," she said. "I 
had a sense of peace in England-a balance- I 
haven't been able to establish it here yet. It 
requires intense self-knowledge. The peril for me is 
going crazy. I think that's peculiar to being 
female, Marxist, and alive in the U.S. today." 

She said this, I nodded and wrote it all down, 
but I was struck by how calm and sane she 
seemed, looking over her desk and the trees 
toward the Long Island Sound. 

Having spoken for my classmates (I've 
always thought Joyce Maynard presumptuous), I 
would like nothing better than to be disproved. I 
want scores of young women, from Yale or any-
where, to write me saying: "I love my work, I'm 
devoted to my career, art, profession, I won't give 
it up, I'll never have kids, I want power, fame, 
$100 thou, to be one of the guys, a man .... " 

No- I'd rather see women, and men, write in 
describing that delicate balance, doing work one 
cares about, having relationships one cares about, 
without neurosis or guilt or agonizing self-
indulgence; defining "success" not in terms of 
money and status but in terms of inner satisfac-
tion and even joy; using "power" humanely to 
better the lives of others. A utopian, unrealizable 
fantasy? So was "coeducation" in 1971.0 
Joann Lawless, '71, is an M.F.A. candidate at 
Columbia in writing. 



**Getting More Friends for the Family**
**Author: Nancy Kempner Davis**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
w 
. . .. " 
-·· 
. . 
Getting More Friends for the Family 
by Nancy Kempner Davis 
" $97 MILLION FOR YALE/ 26% 
OF GOAL" screams the cover of 
"The Campaign for Yale's Bulletin 
Two," mailed to all of the approxi-
mately 90 thousand Alumni. This is 
correct. What follows is not. "The 
Campaign For Yale has raised $97 
million in ten months- over a quar-
ter of its $370 million goal." 

Kingman Brewster officially 
opened the Campaign in April197 4, 
ten months before this statement 
was made. He said, "I am happy to 
announce we start this campaign 
with commitments or gifts of $63 
million applicable to the campaign 
goal." This $63 million must be sub-
tracted from the $97 million total. 

In ten months the Campaign for 
Yale has raised $34 million. Included 
after April1974, was the $15 million 
grant from John Hay Whitney, '26, 
intended for two residential colleges 
but stymied by the New Haven 
Board of Aldermen since 1973 when 
they invoked the so-called Guida 
..... .. 
\ 
~. 
Amendment. This $15 million must 
be subtracted from the $34 million 
total. 

Yale has raised $19 million. The 
Alumni Fund contributed six million 
it has raised independently during 
that ten month period. This $6 mil-
lion must be subtracted from the $19 
million total. 

Yale has raised $13 million. 

The Campaign takes care of its 
own. In a university where furniture 
is re-cycled indefinitely, the Cam-
paign for Yale's headquarters at 155 
Whitney A venue have been decor-
ated. Before the executive staff 
moved in earlier this year, the ceil-
ing was tom up to install individual 
air conditioner ducting to each office. 
The carpet is wall to wall bronze shag. 
At least 14 new beige I.B.M. selec-
trics sit on new formica and chrome 
desks. 

A jovial, shoulder-to-the-wheel 
spirit is cultivated. The executives 
work with their doors open. They 
wave, shake hands, and clap each 
other on the back. The secretaries, 
clustered in groups of three and four, 
chatter and laugh. But two junior 
level executives and one secretary 
refuse to discuss their work. They 
are afraid of being fired. They sug-
gest directing all questions to 
Donald M. Marshman, Director of 
Information. 

A huge, slightly stooped man, 
"Mac" Marshman has had a varied 
career. He won an Oscar in collabora-
tion with Billy Wilder for the screen· 
play of "Sunset Boulevard," starring 
Gloria Swanson. After a stint as an 
editor at Time Inc., he worked for 
Young and Rubican, and owned his 
own advertising agency. When the 
Campaign is won, he says, he may 
retire. 

Mr. Marshman does not have the 
exact figures on how much the Cam-
paign has cost. "I don't think it 
would be appropriate to tell you even 
if I knew. Our total ceiling for Cam· 
paign expenditures is four percent.'' 
He affirms that he means four per· 
cent of the $97 million. "That's nor-
mal-what other colleges spend. Of 
course, the United Fund drive is 
lower, but remember-we're not a 
local outfit." 

The Campaign for Yale has offices 
in New York and Chicago. Another 
will probably open soon in San Fran· 
cisco. "In the later stages of the 
Campaign," says Chief Executive 
Officer John Perry Miller, ''we will 
be in Akron, Detroit, Milwaukee-
over 60 cities in all. You have no idea 
how much money there is in Milwau· 
kee." The Campaign does not plan 
full ecale offices in these citiee. lt 
hopes to establiah volunteer orpni· 
zations. 

"Is three and a baH million a fair 
estimate?'~ I ask, thinking of the four 
·percent expenditure, aDd remember-
ing that· the Campaip ~ coetma a 
little lees Ulan budpted. Mr .MIII'Sh· 
man sipe hia coffee. .. Yea," be .. ,.. 
That ficure was later corrected to 
be two million clollan . 


The Campaign has a three-part 
plan. To quote Bulletin One, also 
mailed to the 90 thousand alumni: 
"First Year. Seek Leadership 
Uifts ($500,000 and above); enlist 
volunteers and develop plans, 
material and staff for subsequent 
years. 

Second Year. Commence solicita-
tion of Major Gifts ($50,000 and 
above), continue Leadership Gifts 
efforts and prepare for across-the-
board solicitation to follow. 

Third Year. This is the Special 
Gifts stage of the Campaign in which 
all alumni, parents and friends who 
have not been solicited previously 
will be asked to make their special 
capital pledge." 

John Perry Miller's is the corner 
office, reached through an anteroom 
where his secretary works. She is the 
only secretary with her own room. 
(Elsewhere at Yale, power is mea· 
sured by proximity to President 
Brewster in Woodbridge Hall; at the 
Campaign it is how close one is to 
Mr.Miller.) The Campaign also rents 
close to six thousand square feet on 
the third floor, used mainly for the 
researchers and the Campaign's 
massive file system. 

Before Mr. Miller can speak, the 
phone rings. It is the Los Angeles 
Yale Alumni Organization. The pro-
fits from the international preview of 
a Paul Newman (Drama '51) film will be 
donated to the Campaign. Might 
Brewster fly out for the gala? Mr. Miller 
considers. 

As he hangs up, he explains. "I 
had to say no. It won't bring in more 
than eighteen thousand. I can't fly 
Brewster across for that. He gives us 
lot's of his time-he says people 'like to 
see the headwaiter'-but that wouldn't 
be using it well." He shakes his head, 
shrugs and says, "I'm sorry." 

Mr. Miller is round, with white 
hair. He bounces in his chair. He 
wears monogrammed shirts with 
french cuffs and suits made in Hong 
Kong. Dean of theY ale Graduate 
School(1961-1969), the reason for 
hiring him is that he comes from the fa-
culty side of the fence, while he is also a 
highly regarded administrator and has 
been successful as a fundraieer. He wants 
to retire when the Campaign ends. 

"So far we've concentrated on the 
Big Guns, the Leadership Gifts. We 
go after them very carefully. We've 
received 22 commitments totaling 66 
million dollars. Each person is 
approached individually. 

"We go to his frieDds, his businees 
partner, his college roommate and 
find out how much he's worth. We 
learn if he was on crew,. in a secret. 
society. Maybe be'e mter.ted ia the 
Math department. Well. we aeed·a · , . : 
DeW Mathematics Cater. 


''Next thing ie to figure out J.ow 
best to approech him;- See if he .-Ia 
to have Bnw.&er vieit to pt iD &he 
, . 
.. 
·---------------~~--~----------------~----~--~------------~----------- l~----------------------------------------------


TheNewJoumal/April25, 1975 
mood. Or if he's shy, a friend might 
ring him up and invite him to lunch 
with one of our staff. We can go to 
him-or we're happy to show him 
around Yale. 

"But we've got to be careful. Lots 
of times someone will write us a 
$50,000 check without waiting to 
hear from us. That's bad. We call it 
defensive giving. 

"We want the Big Guns-the ones 
we know could manage a couple of 
million-to give until it hurts." Mr. 
Miller smiles whenever he says "mil-
lion." 

He thinks a minute. "No, no I 
don'tmean that. Wewantpeopleto 
give until it's fun. Yes, fun. How so? 
It's fun to achieve .... Yale alumni are 
great achievers: two presidents, nine 
Senators, lots of honors .... A million 
dollar donation is an achievement. A 
man might like to see his name on 
the wall in Sterling." 

Mr. Miller refuses to divulge the 
names of any Leadership Gifts 
donors. "I don't think it's appropri-
ate to publish their names in your 
magazine. They will be made public 
eventually, in something with a 
major scope." 

"We have gotten money from all 
the 'friends of the family,' "says Mr. 
Marshman. "The friends of the fam-
ily are those on the corporation, 
people who know and are concerned 
about Yale. The ones who call us up 
and say, 'How much do you need?'-
The ones Brewster has asked." 

A member of the faculty who 
works in the administration ex-
plained: "Brewster is tired. He 
wants to retire. He stuck it out 
through the sixties and May Day. 
He kept the campus cool, did a great 
job. But Yale is broke-we're oper-
ating at a deficit. He's got to stay 
until Yale's on its feet financially. He 
can't quit and leave the next presi-
dent holding the bag. 

"Think about it. Have you seen 
Brewster in the news lately, around 
campus? He used to make speeches 
all the time, and visit each Yale col-
lege every month. He doesn't bother 
any more. He's spending most of his 
time on the Campaign -raised a lot 
of money himself." 

How much of the $65 million in 
Leadership Gifts has Brewster raised 
personally? Mr. Miller grimaces. "I 
won't say. It's impossible to esti-
mate anyway. It's all done in collab-
oration." 

Can you give an approximation? 
Mr. Miller sighs. "The bulk of it. 
Let's just say the bulk of it." 

A senior member of the adminis-
tration close to Brewster who wishes 
to remain anonymous makes what he 
terms "a very conservative guess .... 
Kingman is independently respon-
sible for at least $50 million." 

The Campaign for Yale put $97 
million in the University's coffers, 
and has spent two million in the pro-
cess. Included in the total are $15 
million from Jock Whitney and $6 
million from the Alumni Fund. Of 
the $74 million remainder, $65 millit>n 
lion comes from Leadership Gifts. 
Subtracting the anonymous estimate 
of $50 million personally raised by 
President Brewster, the Campaign 
for Yale has earned a maximum of 
$24 million for the University's 
use. 

Mr. Miller looks tired for a 
moment. "The easy money's all in." 

The Campaign for Yale is big bus-
iness. It employs 75 people. But 
most of the solicitation in the next 
two stages of the Campaign must be 
done by volunteers. David Atcheson, 
Executive Secretary of Leadership 
Gifts thinks the core of the 'Old Boy' 
network which will raise money is 
the Yale Development Board, 
because "the men on its are tops; in 
industry, business, on the Street." 

Mr. Atcheson has the memory of a 
well programmed computer. Several 
alumni names are mentioned at ran-
dom; to the first he tags class, room-
mate, and profession. Of the second 
he remembers only class and secret 
society. He apologizes. 

"Through the Board we can almost 
always find a connection to a rich 
man. We can offer him any option; a 
gift from his corporation for business 
gifts, through the class fund, even by 
the Parent's fund." 

The Campaign is proud of a book-
let they titled • •y ale College Admis-
sions ... Alumni, Athletics, Financial 
Aid, Minorities, etc ... " It explains 
that with the possible exception of 
the class of '50, never has Yale 
accepted more alumni children than 
for '78. Says Mr. Marshman, "Not 
speaking to the political issues at all, 
Inky Clark was a bad administrator. 
We pay for that with angry alumni." 

The Campaign is preparing for the 
mass solicitation. Mr. Marshman 
explains how: "Let's take Worcester 
Massachusetts. No particular 
reason." He crosses his arms behind 
his head. "Bound to be alums there. 
We contact a few, ask one to chair 
theW orcester Drive of the Cam-
paign for Yale. Then he gets six or 
soY ale men from the area together 
at his club in the late afternoon, or 
at his home at night. We send a staff 
man up with a list of all the Yale 
grads we know of in Worcester. 
Often they can add a few names. The 
meat though, is what they know
page 11 
about what he's worth, how he might 
like to be approached, how much to 
ask. We have three men traveling 
full time." He shakes his head. 

"They're under tremendous pressure 
to sell." Mr. Miller does not know 
how many of the approximately 90 
thousand Alumni rate a dossier in 
Campaign files. He refuses to ask hi~ 
research staff. 

Eventually, all Yale graduates will. 
be listed in University fundraising 
files. A file would include class, 
major, names of roommates and 
friends, as well as extra-curricular 
activities. Each alumnus's job and 
earnings, if known, will be recorded 
along with estimated net worth. 

Mr. Marshman does not know how 
the ftle system works. "Basically 
when there's a red dot-or its equi-
valent-by the name on the cover it 
means 'Anything goes. The sky's the 
limit! A possible Kline' (as in Biol-
ogy Tower). There are a hell of a lot 
of red dots in those files.'' 

The Campaign for Yale's three 
year goal will be met in part through 
institutions. Business gifts must 
earn $20 million, foundation grants 
should total $40 million. The com-
mittee has just been formed. Robin 
Winks, an English professor on half 
academicleave from the University, 
directs this part of the Campaign. 
He does not know how much the 
Foundation Gifts Drive has earned. 
"About two million -check with Mil-
ler, he's got the figures. "The 
Alumni Fund plans to turn over to 
the Campaign $27 million which they 
earned separately. The are on 
schedule so far. 

These combined sources are 
expected to raise $87 million. The 
remaining $283 million must come 
from private donors. 

Last April a 48 page booklet was 
mailed to alumni informing them of 
the Campaign. Included was a state-
ment from President Brewster citing 
past and present academic glory, 
plus a description of Yale's current 
plight. The last pages give the 
"Basic Planning Concepts.'' 

"Year one (Spring 1974-8pring 
1975): Leadership Gifts and Organi-
zational Preparation-During this 
year ... approximately $200 million 
must be sought in gifts for both 
endowment and current use .... The 
Campaign did not expect to earn all 
$200 million the first year. Mr. 
Marshman estimates, "It takes ten 
months to two years for the big 
gifts. We have to go carefully, they 
like to take their time." However, 
the Campaign already has commit-
ments from the members of theY ale 
Corporation, as well as all the 
"friends of the family." 

Year One is up. The Campaign for 
Yale has $97 million. From Spring 
1974 to Spring 1975 it has earned 
only $13 million of this total. 

Mr. Miller looks tired. "The easy 
money is all in." 0 
Nancy Kempner Dauis, '78, writes 
frequently for The Yale Daily News 
Magazine. 


**Wilderness Notes**
**Author: David DeVeau Sleeper**
**Page number(s): 12**

Wilderness Notes 
by David DeVeau Sleeper 
I remember being afraid of the land 
in back of my house in Larchmont, 
New York- a fifteen acre triangle of 
scrub-choked fields and forest. We 
called it (quite naturally) The 
Woods, and until I was five or six I 
never walked there alone, too fright-
ened of hawks, raccoons, possums 
and other wild creatures I didn't 
understand. Three rock formations 
marked the boundaries of my child-
hood wilderness : a glacier-left boul-
der that the neighborhood kids called 
Big Rock, an exposed section of bed-
rock named Flat Rock, and towards 
the south, rising a hu.ndred feet in 
the air was the biggest landmark of 
all, a rock we considered almost a liv-
ing thing-King Kong. We spent 
long afternoons hunting in The 
Woods, first for rabbits and pheas-
ants (using sticks for rifles) and in 
later years for each other, in all-day 
wars with Daisy pump action air 
guns and plastic Army carbines. 

As I got older TheW oods got 
smaller, chunk by chunk carved out 
by bulldozers and steam shovels for 
streets with names like Winding 
Brook Drive and Woods Way, and 
split-level houses with seedstore 
lawns. I still remember hearing the 
muffled explosions echoing over 
what were left of the fields when the 
building contractors destroyed King 
Kong. 

• • • 
"Wilderness is the raw material 
out of which man has hammered the 
artifact called ciuilization. " 
Aldo Leopold in A Sand 
County Almanac 
I was lost on my own land. My dog 
and I had turned south from the old 
beaverkill and found the red plastic 
tags nailed to the trees that/marked 
the Pond Property's bounjary. We 
had followed the tags ( anii sections 
of barbed wire so old they were. em-
bedded in the trees) for a distance of 
two hundred yards, detoured around 
a stretch of swampy land, and then 
lost the boundary. I backtracked but 
still couldn't find the tags or the 
wire. I sat down on a fallen tree and 
stared at the topographical map of 
northern Vermont my grandfather 
had given me when I told him I 
wanted to explore the property. I 
glanced up at the sun and felt a bit 
foolish because its position in the sky 
didn't mean anything to me. Then I 
looked at my dog-a suburban bred 
collie who follows rather than leads 
when walking through a forest. She 
was sitting patiently, head cocked, 
and waiting for me to continue. I was 
lost, completely lost, and I couldn't 
help but smile. 

I've been thinking about land late-
ly-my land; really my grand-
father's land, four hundred acres of 
Vermont forest, with a two acre pond 
and a cottage slowly being gnawed 
apart by porcupines and the long 
winters. No one lives there. My 
grandparents prefer to stay fifteen 
miles away in the more civilized sur-
roundings of town or at their sum-
mer place on Lake Memphremagog. 
The Pond Property just sits; its 
clearings turn inexorably back into 
forest, the old logging roads run with 
mud in the spring and grow jungles 
of weeds in the summer. The beavers 
build and rebuild their series of 
dams, the otters play tag, the hawks 
circle, the deer (though seldom seen) 
leave their tracks everywhere. Tres-
passing hunters scatter red, 
yellow, and blue shell casings 
about, and local teenage couples 
break down the front gate with 
their cars, searching out places to 
park in privacy. A hundred year old 
farmhouse falls down and disappears 
amid the second growth of spruce, 
maple, and pine trees. The hop house 
fell apart ten years ago; the old 
sugar liouse looks as if it will last for-
ever. The Pond Property sits, with 
its owls and spirits and stands of 
· white pine; family members visit the 
property only sporadically. Last year 
my grandfather tried to sell it. I 
didn't fully understand my fear- or 
my anger. 

••• 
My grandfather, a retired WalJ 
Street insurance broker who lived in 
Scarsdale and vacationed in Ver-
mont, bought the Pond Property in 
three installments starting in 1961. 
According to his records, he paid the 
three previous owners an average of 
$27.50 an acre. Now, since the com-
pletion of Interstate Highway 91, 
which passes within five miles of the 
front gate, the land is probably 
worth ten times that amount. He 
still smiles every time he talks about 
his initial investment. 

"If you're not connected to the 
yearly protein resurrection, the 
calues being born, the plants push-
ing up through the ground after the 
long winter, you haue a hard time 
hauing any real hope for anything ... 
I'll stay on this piece of land as long 
as I can. When I work out there I 
know that land is what it's all based 
on. I know the sky, know when it's 
going to rain. You want to be in 
touch with something like this ... " 
Ken Kesey, in an interview 
from his farm in Oregon 
Excerpts from a letter my grand-
father sent the local tax assessors in 
1961: 
"It is our intention to maintain 
this property as a permanent family 
investment as forest land coopera-
ting with both state and federal 
authorities in the application of 
modem methods and practices of 
tree farming. , 

Grandfather had visions of milk-
ing immediate profit from his pur-
chase. He wasn't content to sit back 
and let time spiral the land's worth 
steadily upward-he hadn't bought 
it as real estate. In 1962 he commis-
sioned a firm to take extensive aerial 
photos of the la.nd. Then he had a 
man from the U.S. Department of 
Agriculture look at the photos and 
walk the property with him to ap-
praise the trees. Lumber: living, 
growing profit; waiting to be cut 
down, hauled out, and sold; red 
spruce, white spruce, northern hard-
woods, white and red pine, balsam. 
They found that several valuable 
stands of timber fringed the two acre 
pond. It was then that the war 
started, between my profit-seeking 
grandfather and the beavers. 

I felt incredibly powerful when I 
first broke the beaver dam. By 
pulling three or four sticks out of the 
dam's mud-packed base I was able to 
start the water spilling out. The 
rushing water then pulled loose more 
sticks and mud until tons of water 
escaped through the breach, empty-
ing the 25 acre bog that the beavers 
had created around the main pond. 



**The Pond Property**
**Author: David Sleeper**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
o)ol 
TheNewJoumal/April25,1975 
The small stream at the pond's 
mouth became a chocolate-brown 
torrent; bits of sediment traveled 
downstream, under the barbed wire 
boundary, through the neighboring 
farm's upper pastures, under the 
Brownington Road, and into the long 
valley bisected by the highway. 


A yardstick stuck in the mud near 
the dock showed the progress of the 
war between my grandfather and the 
beavers. If the water level dropped 
below the number twenty-four it 
meant that the dam was broken and 
Grandfather was winning the battle 
to save his trees. But if the level rose, 
it meant that the dam held strong 
and the water was rising slowly, 
reaching out to drown new timber. 
Grandfather and I would break the 
dam with pickaxes every time we 
came to the Pond Property, only to 
discover it rebuilt, stronger, the next 
time we came. We never saw the 
beavers. They worked at night and 
slept in their lodge during the day. 
Occasionally we heard one of their 
firecracker tail-slaps in the distance, 
a warning signal they used whenever 
we got too close. One winter Grand-
father dynamited their lodge and had 
a trapper lay out underwater snares 
and steel traps. The snares drowned 
three beavers; the trapper found a 
chewed off toe in one of the traps. 
The beavers went away for a few 
years and Grandfather claimed vic-
tory, pointing with pride to a row of 
young tamarack trees that had 
sprouted in territory formerly held 
by the beavers. But the animals 
came back, the water level inched up-
ward, and the tamaracks turned 
brittle-brown and died. Grandfather 
capitulated; today the pond is high 
and spreading towards other trees. 


The spirits of the former owners of 
the Pond Property still walk the 
land, especially at dawn, before the 
mist lifts off the water and surround-
ing bog. Fifty years ago the land 
supported three farms: the Ainsboro 
Farm, the Lynch Farm, and the 
Napoleon Stone Farm. Only the rock 
foundations of the farmhouses re-
main, nothing remains of the barns. 
An occasional rusted pail, or stove-
top, or maple sugaring implement 
still pokes through the leaves on the 
ground. The pastures have all re-
verted to forest. 
During the 1940's a Jesuit Priest 
named Father Fortin turned part of 
the Pond Property into a summer 
camp for his parish. He cut walking 
trails through the woods, stocked the 
pond with rainbow trout, and bought 
an oversized rowboat that could hold 
twenty fishermen. The trout all went 
downstream one spring when the 
beaver dam broke, and today a sign 
tacked on a tree near the water sor-
rowfully declares NO FISH. Some of 
the Catholics in nearby Derby Line 
still consider the Pond Property 
theirs. Every fall whole groups of 
them break down the fence (ignoring 
the posted signs) and hunt rabbits 
and ruffed grouse. 


After the beavers' victory, Grand-
father never tried to do much else 
with the Pond Property. He cleared 
some land and planted spruce seed-
lings ten years ago and claims he can 
sell them today for eight dollars 
apiece. He's old now, over eighty, 
and his memory and stamina play 
tricks on him. Some days he wants to 
sell the land, some days he wants to 
buy more. He doesn't realize that 
when he threatens to sell the proper-
ty he's tampering with my future 
design, my Tara. 
My father used to sight his rifles 
during family outings to the proper-
ty. He would concentrate on his big 
varmint rifle, sitting at a table and 
aiming at targets set up two hundred 
yards across the pond. He would 
give me and my two brothers a car-
ton of ammunition each and a slen-
der .22 calibre rifle and let us plink 
at lily pads and beer cans. We'd 
blast at the water for hours. When 
we finished, late in the afternoon, 
even the crickets were quiet. 


Seeing your family's name on the 
POSTED POSTED POSTED signs 
that ring your property gives rise to 
thoughts of the future. How to justi-
fy owning 400 acres of land (a part of 
me says that there is something 
almost evil in keeping that much 
land), how to change it, how to make 
it pay. Future plans, all open-ended 
and hazy: 
•lumbering 
• raising Christmas trees 
• stocking the pond with fish again, 
refurbishing the cottage and rent-
ing it to hunters and fishermen 
• bulldozing new access roads and 
selling segments of the land 
• tapping the three groves of sugar 
maples, nearly 3000 trees, for 
maple syrup 
Letting the land sit. Keeping it wild, 
knowing it's yours. 0 
David Sleeper, soon to be unem-
ployed, would like uery much to 
spend the rest of his life raising trees 
in Vermont.


**Avery and Williams: Police Accountability in New Haven**
**Author: Jon Wiener**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

TheNewJoumal/ Apri125, 1975 
(continued from page 2) 
departmental appointments and pro-
motions and so on. 


However, the department has been 
accused of many lapses, and most 
often of condoning excessive brutal-
ity and illegal a.rrest procedures as 
standard practice. Charges of per-
jury in applying for search warrants, 
alteration of warrants once issued, 
search without warrant, and false 
arrest have appeared within increas-
ing frequency in the pages of the 
New Haven papers since 1971. 
"This may be ordinary relative to 
what goes on in other towns," notes 
New Haven lawyer John R. Wil-
liams, "but it's extraordinary rela-
tive to our expectations." Williams 
and his partner, Michael Avery, are 
the men most responsible for keeping 
the issue of police misconduct alive 
in New Haven. Since the fall of 1971, 
they have filed and tried a unique 
series of damage suits. The suits are 
designed to curtail illegal practices 
by bringing them into the open and 
by making them costly to the depart-
ment. 


A very and Williams discovered 
their common concern about police 
invasion of civil rights when both 
were defending minor figures in the 
Black Panther Party trials of 1970. 
Avery was a recent Yale College-
Yale Law School graduate working 
for the Connecticu t Civil Liberties 
Union; Williamshad recentlylefthis 
corporate law practice to work for 
New Raven's highly regarded legal 
assistance program. After the trials, 
they became partners in a firm now 
know as Williams, A very and Wynn. 
Most lawyers will not go out of 
their way to bring a damage action 
against the police. There isn't much 
money in it, and it can disrupt a 
smooth working relationship with 
the police, which may be essential in 
other areas of a law practice. 
Besides, individual lawsuits are not 
generally considered effective 
against a well-established pattern of 
misconduct. But Avery and 
Williams had a hunch that this 
method of restraining the police has 
not been successful because it had 
never been tried on a large enough 
scale. 


They began taking police lawsuits 
in preference to other cases. Their 
clients were mostly poor, and the 
attorneys accepted fees on a contin-
gency basis: no fees unless an award 
was made. Now, they have also ori-
ented their criminal practice toward 
cases involving possible police mis-
conduct. 


Today, with three dozen suits 
filed, and a dozen tried with an out-
standing fifty-per-cent success rate, 
A very and Williams are the focus of 
police-consciousness in New Haven. 
Together they run a clinic class at 
the Law School in which students 
work on police lawsuits; A very has 
taught a Calhoun College seminar on 
"Police and Police Conduct"; Wil-
liams is being sued for hbel by Chief 
DiLieto, and the J oumal-Courier 
comments that he is " noted for get-
ting his hands into police business." 
The method of fighting miscon-
duct in the courts has proved to have 
applications beyond the defense of 
Fourth Amendment rights. For 
example, while defending a police 
press agent who was ostensibly 
being discharged from the depart-
ment for shoplifting, Williams 
alleged that the department had 
tried to involve his client in a scheme 
to misrepresent auto theft statistics 
so that the police could qualify for 
more Federal Funds. This brought 
Williams two unexpected carbon· 
copied arrest reports dated June 
1972, apparently stolen from police 
headquarters. The name of the 
offense on each report had been 
crossed out at headquarters and 
replaced with that of a milder 
offense. Williams sent the reports to 
the judge and gave copies to the 
press, thus helping to explain how 
Biagio DiLieto achieved a greater 
reduction in serious crimes than any 
other police chief in the nation in 
1972. DiLieto's dramatic success 
also meant more Federal funds 
for the New Haven department. 


Similarly, in a recent suit naming 
the Board of Police Commissioners 
as plaintiffs, Williams alleged that 
two members of the Board are in con-
flict of interest, since one (Dr. Luca 
Celentano) is in partnership with a 
police physician and the other 
(Clarence Butcher) is the department 
tailor. The suit strikes at the heart of 
the misconduct issue because the 
Board is a civilian body appointed by 
the Mayor and responsible for over-
seeing the conduct of the depart-
ment; historically, according to 
Michael Avery, "they have done 
what the Chief wanted them to do." 


Have the lawsuits been successful 
in their original purpose of protect-
ing citizens from brutality, illegal 
search and arrest? John Williams 
feels that there has been a signifi-
cant change, but there is still plenty 
of room for improvement. "There 
have been fewer warrantless searches 
of late," he says, "and certain dan-
gerous officers have been placed in 
less sensitive positions, so that 
extreme examples of brutality are 
less frequent." 


A very concurs, but feels that law-
suits alone can never accomplish all 
that needs to be done. "I'd like to 
see citizens' groups follow through 
on some of the work we do," says 
Avery; "I'd like to see citizens ask 
why officers found guilty of perjury 
are allowed to rE"main on the force, 
for example." (The reference is to 
Michael Giovanni, a detective found 
guilty of false statement in a false-
arrest suit that A very tried on behalf 
of Yale-New Haven inhalation thera-
pist Austin Martin. Chief DiLieto 
has stated that he does not intend to 
bring departmental charges against 
Giovanni.) 


"To change the natur.e of what the 
police do would require a concerend 
citizenry," says Avery. "People 
don't seem to understand the impor-
tance of the Fourth Amendment 
right to privacy; they don't realize 
that if that right is denied to drug 
addicts it can be denied to anybody. 
And you can't really protect people's 
rights for them." 0 


**Restoring the Balance**
**Author: John Taft**
**Page number(s): 15**

TheNewJoumal/Apri125,1975 
Restoring the balance 
Once, during every freshman assem-
bly, Kingman Brewster mentions 
something about Yale being a place 
for "intellectual growth and develop-
ment," a place where "every time 
you think you have an answer," 
you're shown to be wrong. That, 
along with a glance at the "guide-
lines" at the front of the course of 
study booklet constitutes the full 
extent of our indoctrination to four 
years of the liberal arts. One whole 
class of seniors prepares to graduate 
this spring without ever having been 
exposed to a formal definition of the 
purposes of a Yale education. 


In fact, all around us are signs 
that without any such "formal" 
definition, and without any desire to 
figure one out for themselves, an 
alarming number of students~ -~·. 
simply missing the point of a Yale · 
education. Behind all the surface dis-
orders-over-crowded libraries and 
the growing concern for higher 
grades-lies the sad fact that too 
many students have forgotten what 
they are doing at a liberal arts uni-
versity. 


The dangers of this "forgetful-
ness" were first seen three years ago 
by a select "Study Group on Yale 
College." In its controversial and far-
ranging "Dahl Report" - published 
early in the fall of 1972-the com· 
mit tee recognized that the faculty's 
participation in Yale College 
involves a number of necessary but 
rather delicate "tensions." 


It recognized that the central ten-
sion defining Yale College arises 
when top-rate scholars, professionals 
whose interest lie outside the univer· 
sity, are asked to teach undergradu-
ates. Without this tension, the col-
lege would not exist. And most 
importantly, many of the Dahl 
Report recommendations arose out 
of the conviction that in order for 
this balance to be maintained, the 
faculty must constantly be reminded 
as to what it is doing at Yale. 


The report didn't get very far. The 
faculty refused to accept it as a defin-
ition of the future goals of Yale edu · 
cation, and it now sits idly collect· 
ing dust on the bookshelves of SSS. 
But if, as Yale College Dean Hor-
ace Taft suggests, the committee's 
insights were "ahead of their time" 
in 1972, they are proving more and 
more timely this spring. If not in its 
specific recommendations, the spirit 
of this repo1t speaks directly to Psy· 
chology Professor William Kessen's 
recent observation that the college is 
no longer a "place to be" but a 
"place to go on from." It explains 
William Sloane Coffin's Easter Sun· 
day blast against the "pygmy world" 
law boards and chemistry tests. And 
it confirms our own foreboding sense 
that even the eight-course credit/ 
fail option will not ease the compe-
tition in Biology 11. 


By implication alone, the Dahl 
Report suggests that as students, we 
have forgotten that our own partici-
pation in the college involves many 
of the same "tensions" that the com-
mittee pointed out in the faculty's 
involvement with Yale. 


Yale has always asked its students 
to strike a balance between distribu-
tion and concentration in their pro-
gram of study, between asserting 
their own creativity and being recep-
tive to new ideas. But today, the cen-
tral "tension" in the student's 
involvement with Yale College lies 
between his own ever-growing inclin-
ations towards professionalism, and 
the almost anti-professional attitude 
demanded by a liberal arts educa-
tion. 


It exists as a tension because 
neither extreme makes the best use 
of the resources which Yale provides. 
While one extreme looks past the 
university, turning it into a mere 
stepping-stone to careers in law and 
medicine, the other asks the student 
to more-or-less suspend his profes-
sional interests for four years and 
dabble without any pressure of com-
mitment in a number of different 
areas. Instead, it is the balance 
between some sense of professional 
direction on the one hand, and a wil-
lingness to experiment on the other 
that best suits Yale's unique aca-
demic resources. 


All around us, however, are signs 
that this balance has been upset, 
indications that the problems Yale 
now faces lie not within the structure 
of its resources but with the attitude 
with which students are approaching 
those resources. This sense that the 
"essential tensions" no longer sus-
tain a liberal arts attitude in the col-
lege has led many of the more percep-
tive administrators to a growing con-
cern that Yale education is reaching 
a "crisis point." Out of this sense of 
imbalance, for example, Kessen pub-
lished an article in the Yale Daily 
News last December on "Murdering 
the present." 


Deploring what he termed the 
growing "ideology of promotion" at 
Yale, Kessen pointed out what in 
fact happens when students forget 
that they are at a liberal arts univer· 
sity rather than, say, a six-year pre-
medical program. "At Yale today," 
wrote Kessen, " the promotional prin-
ciple flourishes. Our libraries, facul-
ties, stones are becoming part of a 
waystation, a marvelously decorated 
and frantically active waiting room." 


The real tragedy lies not simply 
in the overcrowding of the Cross 
Campus library, but in the fact that 
the push for grades and the eye 
towards graduate schools is under-
mining the spirit of the liberal arts 
education that Yale is best set up to 
accomodate. 


And the answer lies not in any 
"formal" definition of the purposP. of 
a Yale education, not in another Dahl 
Report to be rejected and forgotten. 
It can be reached only through a con-
tinuing and searching discourse 
among students and faculty as to 
just what their involvement in Yale 
education is all about. 


Ever since the faculty rejected the 
Dahl Report in 1972, this spirit of 
self-reflection, of a dialogue in which 
one's own experience receives con-
stant assessment among friends and 
professors, has been missing most at 
Yale. Without it, there can be no 
hope of preserving the true spirit of 
a liberal arts education against the 
"promotional" tendencies of the 
times. Only a renewed concern with 
our own involvement in Yale can 
restore the tensions that in many 
ways provide the life and vitality of 
the college experience. No faculty 
committee can design it. It must 
come from the hearts of those stu-
dents who are just now awakening to 
the uniqueness of what Yale Univer· 
sity has to offer. 0 


**End of the Season Madness**
**Author: Jon Etra**

End of the season madness 
Thank you Sternbach, Sleeper, Denton, 
Jacobson, Jacoby, Brian Fenton, 
Yergin, Bergin, Roel, Rohrer, 
Leamon, Solomon, Daniel Schorer, 
Strasser, Stilman, Sprunt and Yang, 
Olcott, W oolcott, Strunk and Laing, 
Hanson, Johnson, Radolf, Weisman, 
Levin, Martin, Suisman, Iseman, 
Russell, Cecil, Kueffner, Liechty, 
Segall, Steinberg, Cohen, Fichte, 
Panzer, Danziger, Ressmeyer, Brewster, 
Benefield, Fairfield, Redding, Wooster, 
Gephart, Miller, Troncelliti, 
Mcintyre, Goldberger, Kelley, Beaty, 
Csar, Carr, Thomas, Noland, 
Raub, Taub, Cookie Polan, 
Buckley, Brinkley, Ballou, Hertz, 
Blumberg, Umberg, Liberman, Gewirtz, 
Guida, Rider, Sirabella, 
Dunlap, AI Capp, Pirandello, 
Battell, Brettell, Brendan Behan, 
Barnum, Farnam, Coffin, Sheehan, 
Jewett, Jowett, Giamatti, Kezerian, 
Zinsser, Zorthian, Turekian, Yossarian, 
Kramer, Beaser, Harding, Marks, 
Bayh, Bey, King, Homans, Rego, Parks, 
Ribuffo, Arlow, Conniff, Psacharopoulos, 
Diehl, Rotenberg, Howze, Geanakoplos, 
Scarf, Maynard, Leonard, Lee, 
Warren, Pollens, Moen, Dee, 
Lufkin, Rivkin, Baskin, Barkan, 
Vamos, Ramos, Phillip Larkin, 
Lyman, Wyman, Errecarte, Eliel, 
Lawless. Pruess. Brice and Tenniel, 
Fanton, Ecklund, Chauncy, Martin Griff-
in, Meryl Streep, Pierce, Fellner & Smith, 
Grant, Robley, Schay, and Barker, 
Hawthorne, G~eenhorn, and Ma Parker. 
Wynne, Moore, Gore, Gilman and Tandy, 
Candida Piel, Indira Gandhi, 
Conrad, Gootrad, Sculley, Bones, 
Gaines, Raines, Devlin, Jones, 
Russem, Rosen, Warner, Brothers, 
Cr..:las, Pappas, hapless others, 
Glinka. Smouha, Flink, Boorsch, Ruff, 
Bick, Fvote, Landers, Heard, enough; 
Gnomon, Clay, Tzur, Gold, Frye, 
Hay,Kyte; 
Summers, Blessings, Thieu, Hall and 
Sewall, Wilder Knight. 
JonEtra 
JonEtra says he knows everyone's 
first name. Thanks for everything, 
Jon.-D.S.

TheNewjournal
Lyrics by 
Bertolt Brecht 
Performances 
May 1, 2 and 3 at 8 pm; 
Saturday Matinee May 3 at 2:30pm 
Absolutely the final performances in the t .. t 
revival of Happy End! 

Shakespeare's 
A Midsummer Night's Dream 
In association 
with the 
Yale School of Music 
Directed by 
Alvin Epstein 
Music directed 
and conducted by 
Otto-Werner Mueller 
PREMIERE 
MAY9 
Tickets now on sale 
~I i 
~: !~~?. y~~~~~!~Z theatre 
For information and reservations phone 436-1600 

This year over 25,000 readers 
enjoyed our articles and our 
ads. We distribute to every 
student on campus, to faculty 
and to administration. 
Your Ad Gets Read. 
It Gets Attention 
4More 



**Yale Audio Agency Specials**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
.,. 
YALE AUDIO AGENCY SPECIALS 
just one week left on these special April prices. 
BSR 610AX Turntable, complete. 
Retail $107.00, our price $55.00. 
Harmon/Kardon 630 receiver 
Retail $359.95, April only $230.00 
Pioneer Project 60 speakers 
Retail $159.00/pair, now only $76.80/pair 
SYSTEM SPECIAL-Pioneer SX636 receiver, 
2 EPI 110 speakers, PE3015 turntable, 
Pickering V15-660E cartri~ge 
Minim urn retail- -
- - $755.00 
Selling price--- -
- $555.00 
YALE SALES AGENCY 
- final days to 
order Yale rings: orders must be in by May 6.


**Yale Banner Sale**

VALE BANNER- action-packed 
moth-sale of 3' x 5' banners, $20. 
All stock must go. 
7pm - 9pm, Sunday through Thursday 
evenings - just next door to the Durfee 
Sweet Shop. Call 436-0610 or 432-4667. 
Through May 2


**Afore Night Come**
**Author: David Rudkin**

AFORE NIGHT COME 
by David Rudkin 
"It has been wonderfully well done ... 
It is terrifyingly brilliant and so well 
acted by the Long W harf cast -and 
so well costumed, set and lit - that it 
m akes an experience of truly awful 
power." 
Clive Barnes, The New York Times 
May7- June 6


**Richard III**
**Author: Shakespeare**

Shakespeare's 
RICHARD Ill 
-, 
Performances nightly .. except Mondays. Free bus ser-
vice from the Taft Hotel, corner of college and Chapel, 
leaves 7:30 sharp each :Tuesday. Student Rush tickets 
available from one half"hour before curtain, $2.00. 
' . 
L () N (; 
\\' II A H 1: T II E A T H 1:



Fly ELI! 
FALL CHARTERS 
CALIFORNIA-NEW YORK 
United Airlines 
August31 
$100.00 
includes bus from JFK 
RESERVE NOW. 
ELI INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
2182 Yale Station 
Office: 320 Temple St. 
New Haven, Conn. 06520 
Tel. (203) 776-8522 
(Office H ours 1:()()-4:30 p.m .)


A.udio Den Says ••• 
You can bu~ a little AM/FM 
clock radio for thirty bucks. 
So why spend $149.95? 
ObviOUsly so yov con v.10ke up to hiQh fidelity rather thon someth1ng thot sounds 
like 11 s cormng through o paper cup on o string. The KLH Model Twenty.One CL IS 
o senous high fidelity radio for seriOUs music listeners who also wont to know what 
t1me it 1s.lt hos on 1ncredibly accurate d.gitol clock w1th oil the necessary alarm and 
v.10ke-up features. But most important, 11 hos o truly uncanny sound. A powerful 
sound with highs that s1ng and low-s you con actually feel. The FM sectton pulls 1n 
sto11011s yov didn't even know were on the dial. And the AM makes even traffic 
reports. time checks, "pop forties" and "moldy oldies'' sound good 
In short, 1t's o neat, compact AM/FM clock rod1o that v.10kes yov up, keeps ternftc 
time, and delivers on astonishing amount of sound. 
Now yov might th1nk it tokes o lot of nerve to chorge $149.95 for 
o little clock rodio. 
Not-reo fly. 
Whot 1t tokes 1s o lot of clock rod10. 
The KLH Twenty.One CL is at your KLH dealer now. 
See 11 soon. (Also ovolloble without digital clock 1n 
_....jjjjiiiiiP::fl 
AM/FM or FM only models.) 
• 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIII 
KlH RESEAitCH & DEVElOPMENT CORP. 
30 Croo• St., c-bridQ., MoSI. 0.2139 
A >ubsldiOIV of Eoot ... Air OeYI<:M, hoc. 
AudiO Den. 
57 Broadway, New Haven 
Tel. 787-4163 
" A Sound Ploce to do Busine ss" 
OPEN DAILY 9:30-6, THURS. 'Til9

