Publication date: September 7, 1990
Volume: 23
Issue number: 1


**MASTHEAD:**
- None present


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
ABOUT THIS ISSUE - pageS
NEWSJOURNAL - Digging Yale ... Grape Expectations - page 6
BETWEEN THE VINES - Young Man Blues - From Eden to East Haven, a romantic looks back at Yale and forward to a career. By Chris Needham - page 8
FEATURES - page 10
High Stakes in a House Divided - How will the tribe survive? In Connecticut, a Native American chief squares off against his son. The issue: gambling. By Motoko Rich - page 10
Why Don't We Do It in the Bowl - Paul McCartney, the Volvo Tennis Tournament, World Cup '94. New Haven officials say, "Just Do It," but Westville residents have their doubts. By Mark Badger - page 16
The Needle and the Damage Done - Clean needles for dirty ones. To protect IV drug users from AIDS New Haven health workers distribute sterile works ... legally. By Ellen Katz - page 22
AFTERTHOUGHT - And Then I Woke Up - After a bad night of bed rest, the writer realizes normalcy and neurosis are just a dream apart. By Josh Plaut - page 28


**Title: ABOUT THIS ISSUE**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 5**


**Title: NEWSJOURNAL**
**Page number(s): 6**
Digging Yale ... Grape Expectations


**Title: BETWEEN THE VINES**
**Author: Chris Needham**
**Page number(s): 8**
Young Man Blues
From Eden to East Haven, a romantic looks back at Yale
and forward to a career.


**Title: FEATURES**
**Page number(s): 10**


**Title: High Stakes in a House Divided**
**Author: Motoko Rich**
How will the tribe survive? In Connecticut, a Native American chief squares off
against his son. The issue: gambling.


**Title: Why Don't We Do It in the Bowl**
**Author: Mark Badger**
**Page number(s): 16**
Paul McCartney, the Volvo Tennis Tournament, World Cup '94. New Haven
officials say, "Just Do It," but Westville residents have their doubts.


**Title: The Needle and the Damage Done**
**Author: Ellen Katz**
**Page number(s): 22**
Clean needles for dirty ones. To protect IV drug users from AIDS
New Haven health workers distribute sterile works ... legally.


**Title: AFTERTHOUGHT**
**Author: Josh Plaut**
**Page number(s): 28**
And Then I Woke Up
After a bad night of bed rest, the writer realizes normalcy
and neurosis are just a dream apart.


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author:  (No Author Listed)**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
1st Place 
"Best hair 
salon& best 
haircut.• 
1990 
New Haven Advocate 
916 wha lle 
Yale Sym.phony Orchestra 
25th Anniversary Season 
introduces Music Director 
James Ross 
and invites you to its opening concert 
of the 1990 - 91 season 
Saturday 
October 13, 1990 
Rossini: Overture to "La Gazza I.adra" 
Brahms: Violin Concerto 
Carolyn Kalhom, violin 
Dvorak: Scherw Capriccioso 
Janacek: Sinfonietta 
4 The New Joumal 
For more information call: 
432-4140 
PuB usHER 
Lisa Silverman 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
MotokoRich 
MANAGING EDITORS 
Ellen Katz 
Josh Plaut 
BuSINESS MANAGER 
Jerry Hwang 
D ESIGNER 
Mark Badger 
PRODUCTION MANAGER 
Masi Denison 
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR 
Jennifer Pitts 
AssociATE 
PamSturner 
CIRCULATION MANAGER 
AlFox 
SUBSCRIPI'ON MANAGER 
Elizabeth Hopkins 
. STAFF 
Arthur Bradford, *Becky 
Crane, Eric Fisher, Matthew 
Fleischer, Hank Hsu, Todd 
Lynch, *Erik Meers, Milena 
Novy, Kathy Reich, *Mark 
Ribbing, Roy Tsao 
•elected September 7, 1990 
Members and Directors: Edward 
B. Bennett ill • 
Constance 
Clement • Peter B. Cooper • Andy 
Court • Brooks Kelley • Fred 
Strebeigh • Thomas Strong 
Friends: Anson M. Beard, Jr. • Edward B. 
Bennett. Jr. • Edward B. Bennett ill • Blaire 
Bennett • Gerald Bruck • Jonathan M. Clark 
• Louise F. Cooper • James W. Cooper • 
Peter B. Cooper • Jerry and Rae Court • 
David Freeman • Geoffry Fried • Sherwin 
Goldman • John Hersey • Brooks Kelley • 
Roger Kirwood • Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr. • 
Lewis E. Lehrman • E. Nobles Lowe • Peter 
Neill • Julie Peters • Fairfax C. Randall • 
Nicholas X. Rizopoulos • Arleen and Arthur 
Sager • Dick and Debbie Sears • Richard 
Shields • Thomas·strong • Elizabeth Tate • 
Alex and Betsy Torello • Allen and Sarah 
Wardwell • Peter Yeager • Daniel Yergin 
Cover Design by Mark Badger 
photo courtesy of Yale Sporn Information 
· September 7, 1990 


<br>

**Page number(s): 5**

Moonfacebear of the Golden Hill Paugussett nation met me in the 
Daily Caffe. There, he gave me a Connecticut Law Tribune article 
detailing his efforts to start a casino on his tribe's Colchester 
reservation. His father, Chief Aurelius Piper, contests this plan. 
The next day, I asked Chief Piper about the Tribune article. Piper 
asked if this was the article in which Moonfacebear said alcoholism 
and drug addiction plagued the tribe. It was. Piper asked for a copy 
and I agreed to give him one. 
"Good," said Piper. "Because I'm going to hang him with it." 
I stopped short. Now that I knew Chief Piper's intentions, would 
I be overstepping my role as a reporter by giving him the article? It 
would no doubt amplify the tension between father and son. I told 
the Chief I would give him the name of the newspaper so that he 
could find the article himself. 
"Fine then," h e said. "If you won't give me something I need, then 
I won't give you what you want." 
Rationalizing that he would find the article anyway, I gave him 
a copy. The Chief answered the rest of my questions. Still, I felt 
uncomfortable. I had given Chief Piper the Tribune article so that 
he would talk to me. I wanted the story. 
Did I do something wrong? I asked the TNJ staff members what 
they thought. They responded with their own questions. In writing 
the cover story about the Yale Bowl, Mark Badger, a Paul McCartney 
fan, had to overcome his own biases to write a balanced story. How 
could he fairly present the views ofWestville residents opposed to a 
rock concert he had wanted to attend? For her piece, Ellen Katz 
considered talking to an intravenous drug user with AIDS. But 
could she exploit someone's personal tragedy just to add a human 
interest angle to her story? 
As a magazine focusing on Yale, New Haven and Connecticut, 
we often write about communities outside our own. Sometimes we 
wonder if we're reinforcing Yale stereotypes about New Haven. And 
we often ask, isn't there something slightly sleazy about covering a 
community that has no direct way to comment on what we write? But 
if we only covered Yale issues, would we be operating in a vacuum? 
The questions outnumber the answers. We work to produce the 
best magazine we can. We want to inform and amuse our audience, 
which includes Yale undergraduates, graduate students and faculty. 
But as students, we're also here to learn and have some fun. At The 
New Journal , we try to do all of this. We hope you'll join us to write, 
to design, to take photographs, to sell ads and to hang out. Please 
come to the TNJ organizational meeting on Wednesday, September 
12 in the Silliman Common Room at 8:00 p.m. 
••• 
With this issue, TNJ adopts a new format. After 23 years of 
typesetting, we have switched over to laser imagesetting. Our 
designer, Mark Badger, and our production manager, Masi Denison, 
have put in long hours to re-design the magazine. We are grateful for 
theircommitmentandtheircreativity.WealsothankTheYaleHerald 
for the use of their facilities and our former typesetters, Alex and 
Mary Torello, for their help and patience over the years. 
-MR 
September 7. 1990 



**Title: Digging Yale**
**Author: Becky Crane**
**Page number(s): 6**

Digging 
Yale 
Looking for a senior essay project? 
Try digging a hole. That's what 
Lisa Brody (JE '91) did. For seven 
weeks this summer, she turned Old 
Campus into the first excavation 
site at Yale. Brody, an archeology 
major, found an ice skate, oyster 
shells and a few bottles of spring 
water imported from Hungary. "I 
had fantasized about finding jew-
elry," Brody said. "But I was happy 
with what we found." 
Brody was searching for remains 
· of "Old Brick Row," the first Yale 
buildings erected in the 18th cen-
tury on what is now Old Campus. 
The eight brick buildings faced Col-
lege Street and housed dining halls, 
libraries, lecture halls and dorm 
rooms. Brody marked out her site 
near the edge of Connecticut Hall, 
the only building that remains from 
the Row. 
Brody and a team of classmates 
began digging in early June. They 
uncovered the foundation of North 
Middle College, buried just 50 cen-
timeters below the surface. Uni-
versity officials had leveled the 
Federal-style dormitory in 1895, 
making way for the inward-facing 
buildings that form Old Campus 
today. Brody's crew dug deeper, 
scraping out trenches and sifting 
through dirt to find artifacts. Six 
feet down, they hit the basement of 
North Middle College. An accumu-
lation of chipped bricks and mortar 
forced the crew to abandon their 
trowels and sifters and break out 
the shovels. 
Debris in the basement included 
mortar, slate and many bricks. Brody 
concluded that these remains once 
6 The New Joumal 
formed the walls and roof of the 
building. 
Workmen must have 
dumped this rubble into the base-
ment when the building was demol-
ished at the turn of the century. 
"This was probably a typical build-
ing from that era in Yale history," 
Brody said. 
She hopes that her 
analysis of the ice skate and other 
artifacts will provide clues about 
Jennifer Pitts/The New Joumal 
Usa Brody (JE '91) will spend the semester 
examining artifacts like this water bottle. 
19th century Yale life. 
With this project, Brody took 
her studies to the field. "It's fun to 
be outside," Brody said. "It feels 
good to find something neat that 
has been buried for decades or even 
centuries." By digging in such a 
visible spot, Brody hoped to raise 
public interest in archeology. "Be-
cause people could actually see the 
dig, they would often stop and ask 
questions," she said. 
Brody began working on the 
project long before the actual dig-
ging began. As a high school stu-
dent, she had spent a summer exca-
vating a quadrangle at Harvard. 
Inspired by that dig, she thought a 
similar project could be successful 
at Yale. 
She broached the subject of a 
dig on Old Campus with University 
administrators, who responded with 
something less than enthusiasm. 
"We were worried about her dig-
ging interfering with the newly laid 
bordering line and about problems 
with liability insurance," said Betty 
".rrachtenberg, Dean of Student M-
fairs. But Brody won over the Ad-
ministration with her thorough re-
search and preparation. She prom-
ised to put up a safety fence around 
the area, refill the holes before stu-
dents returned in September, and 
reseed the gras·s when she com-
pleted the dig. "She was very orga-
nized," Trachtenberg said. "We were 
able to get it worked out." 
While other seniors scramble 
for essay topics, Brody will spend 
the semester compiling her summer's 
work. She hopes to publish her 
essay and prepare an exhibit of her 
findings for Sterling Memorial Li-
brary. On Old Campus, the protec-
tive fences are now gone and the 
grass is beginning to sprout back. 
The only physical evidence that re-
mains of the dig is stored away in 
the archeology lab. As Brody looks 
toward graduate school, she dreams 
of bigger holes to dig. 
-Becky Crane



**Title: Grape Expectations**

Grape 
Expectations 
By all appearances, Hugh and Su-
san Connell were living the American 
dream. Hugh worked as a corpo-
rate attorney in a New York firm. 
Susan managed a greenhouse and 
· September 7. 1990 



**Title: Crosswoods Winery**
**Author: Mark Ribbing**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
raised the couple's three sons. In 
spite of their prosperity, the Connells 
felt dissatisfied. Burned out and 
bored by Westchester County com-
muter life, they wanted to get out. 
"We basically felt we wanted a change 
in our lives," Susan said. 

They 
decided to open up a small business 
far from the pressures of the big 
city. In 1980, they left New York. 
Hugh and Susan, both connois-
seurs of fine wines, wanted to own a 
vineyard. They hoped to produce 
vintages that could compete with 
their French favorites from Bur-
gundy and Bordeaux. Their plan: 
buy a run-down dairy farm in North 
Stonington, near the port town of 
Mystic, and transform it into a win-
ery. "Everyone thought we were 
crazy," Susan said. "But they ap-
preciated that we had the courage 
to do what we wanted to do." In 
1981, 
the 
Connells 
opened 
Crosswoods winery, named after 
their former home in New York. 

The Connells were determined 
to produce a quality wine. They 
wanted to cultivate Vinifera grapes, 
from which the world's finest wines 
have been made for centuries. But 
Vinifera traditionally grows only 
in warm areas like the Italian 
Piedmont and Northern California's 
Napa Valley. Experts believed the 
harsh climate of the northeastern 
United States would destroy the 
fragile grapes. To introduce Vinif-
era to the region, researchers at 
Cornell University crossed it with 
Labrusca, a grape native to New 
England. This hybrid helped the 
Finger Lakes region of upstate New 
York become a major wine-produc-
ing area. 

The Connells had no interest in 
cultivating hybrids. They wanted 
to grow pure Vinifera. D~spite the
September 7, 1990 
warnings of experts, they remained 
commited to what Hugh likes to call 
the "noble grape." 

Subtle variations in New 
England's soil and climate, the two 
most crucial variables in wine pro-
duction, worked to the Connells' 
advantage."AJongthecoastofCon-
necticut, within ten miles of the 
ocean, the climate is fine for Vinif-
era," said Hugh. "It's similar to 
Burgundy and Bordeaux. As you go 
further west, you move into a colder 
climate. You have to stick with 
hybrids there." Moderating winds 
from the ocean protect coastal grapes 
from premature budbreak in the 
spring and postpone the killing frosts 
of autumn. 

Crosswoods is perfectly located 
to benefit from the sea's favorable 
air, and the Connells have succeeded 
in producing some of the imest 
Vinifera wines in the eastern United 
States. 

Since the winery's first 
vintage in 1984, journals such as 
the Wine Spectator and Robert 
Parker's Wine Advocate have given 
Crosswoods rave reviews. 

Elliot Brause, proprietor of 
Quality Wines in New Haven, says 
the accolades are richly deserved. 
"Of all the New England wineries, 
Crosswoods is probably in the top 
three or four overall," he said. "Its 
Granger Mooreheod/The New Joumal 
quality is good and its consistency 
is excellent." 

He adds that 
Crosswoods has a strong reputa-
tion among the wine purchasing 
public. "I think it does as well as 
any boutique winery in the area," 
said Brause. 

The Connells take pride in their 
success. Not only have they silenced 
the naysayers, they have spear-
headed a regional trend toward 
Vinifera. "At the time we began 
growing Vinifera, people said we were 
crazy," said Hugh. "But we did it, 
and we were right. Now everybody's 
growing Vinifera." 

For small "boutique" vintners 
like the Connells, Vinifera may be 
the key to economic survival. In the 
United States, a large number of 
foreign and domestic producers battle 
for the affections of an increasingly 
selective market. Small wineries, 
which are generally unable to pro-
duce as inexpensively as their larger 
counterparts can, often have to rely 
on the specific quality of their wine 
to attract a loyal following. "People 
are buying high quality wines," said 
Hugh. "Jug and cheap wine sales 
are way off. 
People don't want 
something that's produced by the 
zillion gallons and has no character." 
-Mark Ribbing 
The New Joumol 7 



**Title: Between the Vines**
**Author: Chris Needham**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

c:Between the VineS/Chris Needha• n 
Young Man Blues 
Freshman year. Naples. Thursday 
night. 
"So what do you think you'll do 
when you get out of Yale?" asks a 
friend with torrents of blond hair 
and eyes as beautiful and wise as 
those of Kurt Vonnegut. 

I sip my beer. I look down at the 
table. I look up into those eyes and 
swell with love for this person and 
with love for blurred visions ofiride-
pendence. 

"One thing is for bloody sure, " I 
say. "I will not be sitting behind a 
desk waiting for the clock to tick 
over to 5:00p.m. No way." 

"What then, if not a desk job?" 

I come back with the most em-
phatic reply I can muster.· I feel the 
emotion of the reply stretch and 
quiver. "I simply want to live." 

Without the atmosphere and the 
eye contact between two friends, 
this statement loses a lot. It verges 
on romantic ridicule. But I meant 
what I said. At the very least, I 
wanted a life with little care for 
money or station but with an em-
phasis on friendship and learning. 

On the outer edges of my ideals, I 
envisioned European walks that 
stretched from Bordeaux to Budapest 
and dreams of Byronic sensuality 
sweetened by long summer evenings. 

Call me an unrealistic fool, but why 
should such ideas only belong to 
novels or immaturity? 

Junior Year. Art History Lecture. 
Back row. 
"As we can see here," the pro-
fessor says, flipping his head back 
to emphasize the coming statement 
and pointing up to a slide. "The 
curve of Picasso's brush stroke is in 
obvious counterpoint to a psycho-
logical framework of painting. The 
paint is simply released in rejection 
8 The New Joumol 
of any Freudian self-awareness. 
Close, if you will, to an orgasm." 

I lean over and whisper in a 
friend's ear, "What the hell is he 
talking about?" 

"No idea," she replies. "Some-
thing about an orgasm." 

I fumble back through the pages 
of my notes. Nothing. For seven 
weeks I have been coming to this 
. room. Each time, I ask why I bother. 
The professor's gentrified language 
is unclear, which annoys me. As I 
study the curves and meanings of 
art, a guilty voice perks up from the 
back of my mind: 

"What does the phallic imagery 
in a Picasso painting do for you? 
Does it really help you understand 
the world better?" asks the voice. "I 
hope so, because it certainly won't 
help you find a job when you gradu-
ate." The voice turns cold and digs 
deep. "Why, Chris, are you so scared 
Gronger MooreheOd/The New JoumOI 
of the real world?" 

Like a drug addict in denial of a 
problem, I shut the voice down. I 
remind myself that the study of art 
history requires the all-important 
skill of analysis. I'm learing how to 
think, I tell myself. But the voice 
comes back. And the question of my 
future after Yale lingers. 

Summer Intership. Corporate office. 
First Day. 
To be a professional writer, you need 
a desk. In front of me sits a computer, 
a thesaurus, a copy of Strunk and 
White and a coffee mug. "All good 
journalists drink coffee," says the 
editor. I sip my coffee, trail my 
fingers along the computer keyboard 
'and look at the clock. 

The voice won out. I am pad-
ding my resume with recommenda-
tions and getting a taste of the 
magazine business. What does it 
matter if I don't like coffee; surely, 
after some furious late night editing, 
I will get to like the drink. I am 
becoming a professional. 

Writing about golf for a trade 
magazine may not be the novel that 
I once dreamed about, but I do have 
a passion for the game. Ifl've decided 
not to go gallivanting around Greece 
as I did last summer, then I might 
as well do something that interests 
me. 

"Chris, could I see you in my 
office please?" My boss calls me on 
the phone. "I have some lists I would 
like you to research and compile." 

Enough of the diary-style in-
serts, already. 

They don't fool 
anyone. The summer drifted along. 
My job was not horrible. In some 
ways I enjoyed it. In addition to 
asking me to compile lists, the edi-
tors and assistants helped me write 
a few things. I worked for the fash-
ion editor who swished through the 
corridors, always in a rush from one 
important project to the next. 

Halfway through the summer 
my boss sensed my diminishing en-
thusiasm for list compiling. She 
pulled me aside and gave me a pep 
talk. This was kind. 

"This magazine is a money 
September 7. 1990 

--- Page 9 ---

I envisioned 
European walks that 
stretched from Bor-
deaux to Budapest. 
maker, a winner, a good place to 
be," she said. She ran her finger-
nail along the thick edge of the 
magazine, caressing the binding. as 
one might touch a silk shirt. I asked 
her if she played golf. "No," she 
replied. "It's a bit of a silly game." I 
thanked her for the talk. 

The next morning as I sat at my 
desk, a glimpse of perspective 
brushed over me. It felt like two 
tequila shots thrown back one after 
another. How often do we think 
about our lives? Where are we go-
ing? How many of us know that the 
bank, the hospital, the newspaper 
will be our workplaces? 

A new voice emerged. 

"Is this it? Do I really have the 
arrogance to expect more out of life 
than typing in stories about a cer-
tain type of golflabel, a story that is 
little more than an advertisement 
for the company?" 

Unlike my boss, I did not be-
lieve in the magazine. Nor did I 
value its place in society. I do, 
however, admire the game of golf. 
My inner voice, the closest thing to 
an antenna for one's character, be-
gan mumbling, and an echo of doubt 
bubbled around, makingitselfheard. 

"Hey, psst, Chris, you old cod-
ger," said the genial voice. "What 
are you up to here? What's the plan? 
Is writing at this magazine the way 
you see your life?" 

The answer echoed back, "Er, 
no. Not really." 

Ever since I came to America 
from England five years ago, I have 
felt a pressure to consume, to nip 
down to the local Macy's to browse 
and buy. America is built around 
consumption. I noticed this pressure, 
pulling and bending my character 
around, and I felt damned if I was 
going to let it shape any part of my 
life. 

In just the same manner as the 
pressure to consume has edged in 
on my spending habits (remember 
that scene in Gats by where Redford 
tosses the shirts around the room? 
-that scene could now be filmed in 
my closet), the experience of Yale 
University has touched another part 
of my character. 

Yale encouraged me to investi-
gate the interesting topic and to 
enter those esoteric intellectual do-
mains that few people outside of 
universities know exist. What have 
I found? Most of the time, I've been 
engaged, interested, stimulated. I've 
been allowed to wander around 
through the centuries, picking at 
the juicy parts of thought and his-
tory. From the Ming dynasty to a 
never-ending Faulkner sentence, 
Yale has given me an environment 
in which to drift away from present-
day concerns. When I tried to figure 
out the meaning of The Magic 
Mountain ( in under seven pages no 
less), I soon forgot what day it was. 
I wasn't too sure of the month, ei-
ther. All bound up in the cocoon of 
Yale University, I found it very easy 
to let events on the outside slip by. 
Every now and then I might catch a 
headline, or a quick smirk from Peter 
Jennings. 

One day as I cycled out to the 
golf course, I saw folks struggling to 
make a living, reminding me that 
there was life outside of Yale. I 
began to wonder what my role in 
the world would be. At the very 
time I drifted away from the real 
world, a part of me demanded to 
know what preparation I was mak-
ing to enter life after Yale. This 
worry became clamorous after classes 
such as the art history lecture with 
the sexually preoccupied professor. 

My statement at Naples at the be-
ginning of freshman year was still 
with me, but it was tempered by 
three years of drifting at Yale. The 
date of graduation and the payback 
ofthe$15,000loansdrewevencloser. 

Thus, I opted for the internship. 

And there I learned that the only 
true professional is the person who 
believes in what he or she is doing. 

May 26, 1991. Black gown and cap. 
(God willing. Anyone can flunk the 
senior essay, right?) 

I've just lost my cap. It landed 
on the roof of'I'imothy Dwight College 
when I threw it in the air. "So what 
do you think you'll do when you get 
out of Yale?" asks a friend with 
blond hair and beautiful eyes. He 
smiles mischievously. 

I hug my friend, trying to hold 
onto a friendship that from now on 
will never be the same. 

Who knows, I think. Nothing is 
resolved. Nothing is certain. In two 
years, I might be a shepherd in the 
Northern Territory of Australia, or 
a management consultant in 
Greenwich, Connecticut. Both jobs 
would be fme if! made a friend like 
the man I hold onto now. I pull 
back, look into those eyes, and say, 
"Didn't I tell you? I'm following you 
to Law School." 

..,. 
Chris Needham is a senior in Timothy 
Dwight College. 
The New Journal 9 



**Title: High Stakes in a House Divided**
**Author: Motoko Rich**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
High Stakes in a House Divided 
MotokoRich 
I I 
Aurelius Piper drives his green-Dodge van through the 
wealthiest area of Trumbull, just southwest of New Haven. He slows down in front of a log cabin on a 
quarter-acre plot nestled between the Colonial-style 
houses on Shelton Road. He pulls into the dirt driveway as one of his sons is pulling out to go to work. 
Piper's wife Marsha, his two youngest children and 
visitors from Tennessee emerge from the house to 
greet him. Piper, a spry 74- ----- - - - ------------
year-old, bounds into the cabin to answer a phone call. 
Inside, photos of Piper and his family, landscape paintings and headwork decorate the walls. The head of a bear is
mounted over the fireplace. 
This cabin, home to Piper 
and his family, is a reservation for the Golden Hill 
Paugussetts, one of five Native-American tribes in Connecticut. Aurelius Piper is the tribal chief. 
"I don't want to live like the whiteman," said Piper, also called Chief Big Eagle. "I want to live Indian." 
Right now, most of the approximately 140 Paugussetts don't practice a traditional Native-American lifestyle. 
Only Piper and his immediate family live on the reservation. Other tribe members rarely attend religious 
ceremonies, cultural events or tribal meetings at the 
Trumbull quarter-acre. 
The Golden Hill Paugussetts once occupied over 
200 acres in the Bridgeport-Trumbull area before the 
state whittled it down to the present reservation. 
Although the tribe acquired 107.5 acres in Colchester 
eleven years ago, one of Chief Piper's 18 children , 
Kenneth Piper-Moonfacebear, is still the only tribe 
member living there. "Nobody cares about a reservation in the boondocks," Chief Piper said. A disintegrating tribal identity has left the Golden Hill Paugussetts disjointed and out of touch. "My tribe is on the brink 
of dying," said Moonfacebear. 
He thinks he can revitalize the tribe. A few months 
ago, Moonfacebear hatched a plan to open a gambling 
hall on the reservation in Colchester. If Moonfacebear 
can start a casino, he could raise much-needed funds 
for the tribe. The Mashantucket Pequots, another 
Connecticut tribe, started a bingo hall on their reservation in Ledyard four years 
ago. They now bring in 1,100 
players a night from as far 
away as Nova Scotia and 
Ohio. The bingo operation 
earns several million dollars 
a year and provides jobs for 
tribe members. 
Multiple barriers stand 
between Moonfacebear and a game of blackjack. For one, Chief Piper wants to keep his son from opening a 
casino on tribal lands. "Gambling is not the cure-all for 
the tribe," said the Chief. "All it brings on is fast 
women, fast cars, booze, drugs and you name it." Chief 
Piper claims that Moonfacebear has no authority to 
promote gambling on the Colchester reservation. "My 
son Kenneth is not the Chief of the Golden Hill Paugussett 
nation," said Piper. "He does not speak for the tribe. 
He speaks for himself." 
While Moonfacebear maintains that the casino 
will benefit the tribe, he concedes that he is not getting 
any support from fellow tribe members. His own step-
brother, Aurelius Piper Jr., whom Moonfacebear recently appointed as a council chief in charge of tribal 
disputes, sides with their father. 
"I'm opposed to 
gambling ventures at this time," said Piper Jr. "I've 
never seen anything good come of it." 
Moonfacebear has promoted his gambling scheme


---

in Colchester, he rarely sees other Paugussetts. Chief 
Piper, on the other hand, talks regularly with the tribe 
members living in urban centers throughout Fairfield 
County. According to Moonfacebear, his father manipulates tribal opinion and unjustly wields power 
over the Golden Hill nation. "I'm feeling like this is a 
Ferdinand Marcos or Ceaucescu situation," said 
Moonfacebear. "My father is an authoritarian, totalitarian type of individual." Moonfacebear believes that 
his father opposes the casino proposal because the 
Chief is preoccupied with tribal control. "He is one of 
the reasons the tribe hasn't been able to go anywhere 
in eight years," Moonfacebear said. 
The casino dispute dramatizes the longstanding 
rift between father and son. Since 1980, Moonfacebear 
and Chief Piper have vied for power over the tribe. 
Moonfacebear argues that his father abdicated his 
authority in two letters that the Chief filed with the 
Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection. 
In 1977, Chief Piper wrote: "You people have assimilated into the main stream of society. I can no longer 
carry the nation .. .it is time to sever all relations as 
president of the Golden Hill Development Corporation." 
Five years later, Chief Piper appointed 
Moonfacebear as a war chief of the tribe in charge of 
the Colchester reservation. "The emblem on your shirt, 
the eagle, with the word 'chief,' stands as I stand," the 
Chief wrote. Although Piper specifically designated 
his son as a sub-chief, Moonfacebear claims that Chief 
Piper handed down all authority to his son. "Whatever 
power he had, through that emblem, transferred his 
power to me," said Moonfacebear. "By 1982, I was the 


only legitimate official of the tribe in existence." 
Chief Piper says that he only named his son war 
chief of the Colchester reservation to get Moonfacebear 
out of trouble. "He went out there after he got through 
running drugs for his sister in Bridgeport. He had 
nowhere to go," said Piper. "At the time, people said 
maybe by being out in the woods by himself, he'd learn 
something." Chief Piper claims the real authority 
remains in his hands. "Moonfacebear doesn't have any 
power. The Clan Mother is the only one who can take 
away power," Piper said, defending his leadership. 
"I've had the tribe's power-of-attorney since 1973 and 
nobody has gone to court to revoke it yet." 
Yet in a letter to the DEP, Piper granted his son 
permission to write checks from the Golden Hill 
Paugussett Tribal Fund. As a result, state officials 
now recognize Moonfacebear as a legal representative 
of the tribe. They have discussed the casino almost 
exclusively with Moonfacebear. Piper resents the state 
for meddling in what he sees as strictly a family affair. 
"Moonfacebear's problem is his own hatred for the 
family," the Chief said. "In the old way you could 
banish him from the tribe. But now with your court 
system and your democratic process and your legal



papers-anything is legal that you 
sign. It's get one Indian to sign and 
they take the whole thing." 
One thing state officials want 
to keep any Paugussett from signing: a gambling contract. Officials 
maintain that Connecticut law prohibits the Las Vegas-style casino 
that Moonfacebear wants to introduce. Moonfacebear discovered the 
state's opposition last month when 
he announced his intentions to start 
a gambling hall. If he goes ahead 
with his plan, he could face arrest. 
"If someone commits an act that we 
consider a violation of state statutes on gambling, we would apply 
to a judge for an arrest warrant," 
said Chief State Attorney Jack 
Kelley. For now, Kelley stops short 
of threatening Moonfacebear with 
criminal prosecution. "I do not deal 
in hypothetical situations," said 
Kelley. 
Moonfacebear could get around 
Connecticut laws on gambling by 
entering into a compact with the 
state. Under the 1988 Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, tribes and states 
can negotiate gambling operations 
that are otherwise prohibited by 
state law. One problem: the Act 
only applies to federally recognized 
tribes-tribes in official relationships with the U.S. Government. 
The U.S. Government does not recognize the Golden Hill Paugussetts. 
To gain federal recognition and 
its accompanying welfare services, 
groups must prove the historical 
continuity of their tribes. For tribes 
like Golden Hill, such verification 
is prohibitively expensive. "If you've 
got to put up $100,000 to dig up 
everybody's background, I think it's 
kind of foolish," said Chief Piper. 
"They know that we were on reservation land before this country was 
founded and still are on trust land 
today. Now you're going to tell me 
I have to go through all that shit to 
prove we are a continuity?"



**Motoko Rich/The New Journal**
**Author: Motoko Rich**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Motoko RlctVThe New Joumo/ 
Chief Aurelius Piper sits In his home on the Golden Hln 
reservation In TNmbull. "I want to ltve Indian," he says. 
Moonfacebearclaims the Golden 
Hill Paugussetts are already recog-
nized by the federal government, 
because the tribe gets help from 
some federal agencies. In 1979, the 
Department of Housing and Urban 
Development granted the tribe 
$69,000 for the purchase of the land 
in Colchester, and later awarded 
them $46,500 more. Although the 
Paugussetts have received no other 
rnoney, Moonfacebearsaysthatthe 
tribe deals with the U.S. Depart-
ment of Treasury, the Department 
of Health and Human Services and 
the Department of Agriculture. 
"There's no way that the federal 
government could say we're not rec-
ognized," said Moonfacebear. 


Even if Moonfacebear fails to 
establish federal recognition for the 
tribe, a state Superior Court case 
up for argument this fall could be 
his ace in the hole. Schaghticoke us. 
Potter involves a dispute over tim-
ber sales on the unrecognized 
September 7. 1990 
Schaghticoke reservation. The case 
pits tribal sovereignty against state 
jurisdiction. Last year, a lower court 
held that the state does not have 
civil jurisdiction over any Native-
American tribe in Connecticut. The 
state, in appealing the decision, will 
argue that it does have legal au-
thority on the reservation because 
the Schaghticoke tribe is not feder-
ally recognized. If the Superior 
Court denies that the state has ju-
risdiction over the Schaghticokes, 
Moonfacebear may be in luck. Ac-
cording to Julia Bradley, staff at-
torney for the Connecticut Indian 
Law Project, such a ruling would 
extend gambling privileges to all 
unrecognized tribes. 


For now, Moonfacebear has 
agreed to postpone development of 
the casino and investigate other 
economic options for the Colchester 
reservation. Manchester represen-
tative Jack Thompson, chairman of 
the Connecticut Indian Affairs Task 
Force, hopes to help Moonfacebear 
devise some progra:tns for the tribe. 
Thompson suggests that the tribe 
might use reservation land as a 
landfill or start a cottage industry. 
Tribes in the western United States 
have raised money through such 
programs. 


Thompson has no specific plans 
for the Golden Hill Paugussetts for 
now. "We're really treading water 
at the moment," said Thompson. 
"But Moonfacebear is self-educated 
and a pretty bright guy, and we 
hope to work something out." Chief 
Piper believes he, not his son, should 
be dealing with Thompson. The 
state representative thinks that 
Moonfacebear is the appropriate 
authority. 
"As I understand it, 
Moonfacebear is talking about the 
•• 
Colcuesrer reservation, which he is 
in charge of," said Thompson. 


As the conflict between father 
and son heats up, both Chief Piper 
and Moonfacebear insist that they 
''Anything is legal 
that you sign. It's 
get one Indian to 
sign and they take 
the whole thing. , 
want what is best for the tribe. In 
the past, both have defended tribal 
interests. Piper had to struggle for 
eight years before Connecticut would 


Morlc Badger/ The New Joumol 
gr&nt the tribe absolute ownership 
of the Trumbull quarter-acre. In 
1981, Moonfacebear refused to give 
up the Colchester land when the 
state threatened foreclosure for 
unpaid taxes. Moonfacebear prom-
ised to use force if necessary, and 
the state recognized the reserva-
tion that year. Today, backbiting 
between father and son overshad-
ows long- term tribal plans. Their 
personal dispute now shapes the 
future of the Golden Hill Paugussett 
nation. A peaceful resolution appears 
unlikely. "We're at a total war," 
said Moonfacebear. "The best man 
Will Win." 


Motoko Rich, a senior in Branford 
College, is Editor-in-chief of TNJ. 

**Title: Paul McCartney's Cancelled Yale Bowl Concert**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Although the weather is mild for a late June evenin& 
the 62,000 bodies around me make the air feel hot and 
sticky. The crowd, docile until now, leaJn to its feet. 
screaming wildly as the Sgt. Pepper'sguitarriffblasts 
from the stage. I can't see Paul McCartney anymore. My 
view is completely blocked by a sea of waving arms. 1 
climb to the top of the bleoch.ersjust to confirm that I'm 
still in the Yale Bowl. 

Actually, I'm j.n my room, listening to my Beatles 
CD. Paul McCartney never came to New Haven, so I 
could not have been at the concert. Like the rest of the 
city, I can only imagine Paul live at the Yale Bowl. 

Many residents of Westville-the neighborhood 
surrounding the Bowl-breathed a sigh of relief when 
the ex-Beatle pulled out of the gig. A 1980 Eagles 
concert and the annual football game between Yale 
and tbe Univei'BityofCenoecticuthave made Westville 
reaidenta~waryofapecialevents at th&Bowl. 

Dr. Kathleen Bober·Sorain8lli, head of the Westville 
ResidentaAssoc:i.ation, shuddentoremembertjae Eagles 
fiasco. "People arrived a daY early and camped out: 
They pitched tena. in Dftiabbon• y~ 
·~ 
~ 
fires and barbecues on private property, • the ~ 
"They dropped their clrawera and defecated· -
16 The New Journal 
streets." Since then, no rock grQups have com~ to the 
Yale Bowl 

When news of tlie proposed McC~rtney concert 
reached Westville last winter, some residents tialkiJd. 
They worried that their neighborhood would be tumed 
into an entertainment district. Two other schemes to 
use the Yale Bowl intensified their fears. Last inim-
mer~ the Tennis Foundation of Connecticut_ Inc., in-
dicated that they wanted to J)ljng the IIDB.Ual VOlvo 
"They dropped their drawetS 
and defecated in the streets." 
International Tennis Tournament tCJ ._. Haven. 
Foundation members figured that,..ale's ~courts­
within walking distance of the Bowl-woaGI .make a 
perfect new home for the tournament. The other 
proposal, devised by a joint New Haven and New Y.ork 
City commisaion, suggested that the two cities make a 
bid foe World Cup 1994 soccer games. 

Weatville'a worries peaked last February whell 
September 7. ~


**Title: Continued: Paul McCartney's Cancelled Yale Bowl Concert**
**Page number(s): 17**

concert promoter Jim KopWt. approached Yale Univer-
sity Secretary Sh4dk W•Uington to suggest that 
.McCartlley 8tqe biil'f.Dur finale in the Bowl. Yale and 
New Haven ofticlala, Marching to remedy the city's 
$9.2 million cleftci~ ..,. intriped. With this fiscal 
monke;y eli~ to!:tb8ir backi, many New Haven 
o.fticialtteawtheconcel'taaawaytohelpflllcitycoffers. 
Cit.r 8te04 f.t) net about $325,000 from the event. 
PNJ~ Rae, New Haven'e chief administrative offi-
eer,saidthecitywouldearmarkachunkoftheconcert's 
take for the New Haven Branch Libraries. "The money 
from the concert would have benefitted the city sub-
stantially,,. he said. 

New Haven residents living further from the Bowl 
hailed the McCartney concert as a dream come true. 
Not ~ecybody ~bared Westville's fear of mob rule at 
the Ya1e Bowl. dhamber of Commerce President Mat-
thew Nemerson contested Sorcinelli's portrayal of the 
1980 Eagles Concert. "There mi8ht have been a little 
trashing. I'm sure some lawns got pissed on: he said. 
"But I doubt anybody was burned out of his house or 
eased out of his backyard., The June 15, 1980 isaue 
of The New Hauen Register reported that the police 
arrested twelve people at the concert for disorderly 
September7. 1990 


**Page number(s): 17-18**

70,000-seat stadium?" Sorcinelli 
shoots back: "Most of us are an-
swering, 'We bought a home next to 
a university athletic facility, not 
next to the Meadow lands or Foxboro 
Stadium.'" 

On May 25, Sorcinelli got her 
wish. Alex Kochian, McCartney's 
agent, announced that he had 
dropped New Haven from the tour. 
I ' The ex-Beatle, Kochian said, did 
not want to cause strife in the city. 
Though some Westville residents 
felt \'indicated, other New Haveners 
expressed disappointment. "I think 
it was a tragedy," Nemerson said. 
"It would have been fun-something 
the whole community would have 
remembered for a generation." 

Although the McCartney pro-
posal died in the planning stage, 
the Volvo tournament fared better. 
The Westville Residents Associa-
tion did not move to stop the tour-
nament from coming to town. Since 
the Volvo tournament would not 
bring in as many people as a rock 
concert or the Yale-UConn game, 
Sorcinelli did not see it as a prob-
lem. During the week-long tourna-
ment in August, 121,000 fans 
crowded a temporary stadium in 
Parking Lot A. Over the next eleven 
months, Jewel Productions, Ltd., 
the tournament producer, plans to 
build a permanent facility in Lot A 
to house the annual matches. 
· September 7. 1990 


**Title: The Volvo Tournament: A Quiet Success?**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
JerriffK ~ 
NtrN Joumol 
Dr. Kathleen Bobef-SorciMII, head of the Westville Residents Association, fears that 
rock concerts, footbal tollgates and World CUp soccer will ruin her netghborhood. 
This summer, the Volvo Tour-
nament ran without a glitch. Few 
parking or traffic problems disrupted 
the surrounding neighborhood. "It 
was almost like a quiet Sunday 
morning before people have gone to 
church," said James Westhall, owner 
of Jewel Productions. Westville Al-
derman John Einhorn, who opposed 
the McCartney concert, agrees that 
the tournament was a success. "It 
was excellent," he said. "It was 
possible to plan for problems like 
parking, traffic, noise and lighting 
in advance." 

Although the tournament ran 
smoothly, neither Volvo nor the 
Tennis Foundation of Connecticut 
turned a profit and won't for about 
eight years. They must pay back an 
$18 million bond bill authorized by 
the state legislature to finance the 
construction of a tennis stadium. 
Meanwhile, the state will take a cut 
of concession sales. 
New Haven 
Will eventually receive a 3% sur-
September 7, 1990 
charge on all tickets sold for Volvo 
Stadium events, but the city won't 
see much of that money until the 
tournament recovers some of its 
overhead expenses. The city hopes 
to be making money from the event 
"The Volvo Stadium 
may well be a Trojan 
horse. N 
by 1991. 

Local merchants hoped the Volvo 
tournament would pull in immedi-
ate profits, but were disappointed 
this year. "We did not see the sales 
results we had anticipated," said 
Ann Morrison, marketing and sales 
director for the Chapel Square Mall. 
The week before the tournament, 
the mall sponsored a contest chal-
lenging entrants to guess the num-
ber of tennis balls packed into a 
~11 
~ 


**Title: The Needle and the Damage Done**
**Author: Ellen Katz**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Love as if your life depended on it. Insist on condoms," reads a brochure on AIDS prevention. For intravenous drug users, though, "safe" is not as easy as walking into a pharmacy and buying a condom. Safe means shooting up with a clean needle. Today in Connecticut, it's impossible to get sterile needles legally without a prescription. As a result, IV drug users share needles and spread AIDS. Not surprisingly, the disease has killed scores of addicts. 

This month, the New Haven Department of Health will make life a little safer for New Haven's IV drug users. Outreach workers plan to canvass city streets, giving addicts clean needles in exchange for used ones. For the past few years, AIDS activists have passed out needles illicitly in New Haven, Boston and other cities that prohibit needle possession without a prescription. New Haven's first official needle exchange, authorized by the state legislature last spring, will allow addicts to get needles legally for the first time. 

"Needle exchange is an act of desperation," said State Assemblyman William Dyson. Health officials estimate that half of New Haven's 5,000 IV drug users are HIV positive. Seventy percent of all AIDS victims in the city contracted the disease from IV drug use. The New Haven needle exchange could have saved many of their lives. 

Until now, addicts rarely came across clean needles. While physicians and pharmacists can purchase needles for less than 25 cents a piece, addicts pay five dollars for black market needles. Since the onset of the AIDS epidemic in 1981, the street price of clean needles and syringes has more than doubled. To save money and decrease the risk of arrest, addicts share or rent needles from other users. A single needle gets reused dozens of times. Since the mid-eighties, drug dealers have repackaged used injection equipment and sold these counterfeit "sterile" works to addicts worried about AIDS. 

Tocounteractthedangersposedbyreusingneedles, Sonia Lugo, an outreach worker from the AIDS Division of the New Haven Department of Health, gives out bleach kits to drug users on city streets. For the past three years, Lugo and three other health workers have taught drug users how to clean their needles with bleach. Just north of the Yale campus along Dixwell Avenue, Lugo hands out fifty bleach kits and dozens of condoms everyday. A former addict herself, Lugo says drugs users want to protect themselves from AIDS. "We've seen a lot of addicts changing their behavior, " she said. "Addicts are cleaning their works." 

Lugo concedes that bleach is not enough. "It's not the same as givingthemcleanneedles,"shesaid. "The needle exchange will be more effective." The program will provide clean needles that can be used immediately and will get dirty needles off the street and out of circulation. With each exchange, Lugo hopes to establish a continuing one-on-one relationship with the user. She believes this interaction will be the most valuable part of the needle program. 

"With the needle exchange we'll be able to reach more people," said Lugo. "Now, when I pass a shooting gallery, I leave fifteen bleach kits with the person outside." Even if the bleach reaches the addicts in the building, the information about safe sex and treatment stays outside. "We'll give the needles to the individuals themselves," she said. 

New Haven Mayor John Daniels endorses the needle exchange. Last spring, he lobbied for the program before the state legislature. Daniels argued that current prevention programs were not stopping the spread of AIDS. He hopes clean needles will do the job. "We're reaching out to people who have a disease-drug addiction-that opens them to another disease that will kill them," said Alma Ayala, a spokesperson from the mayor's office. "We are trying to save lives. Needles are essential." 

Needle programs abroad have protected drug users from AIDS. In 1985, the Netherlands launched a needle exchange to protect addicts from hepatitis B, another disease that spreads by needle sharing. In Amsterdam, where health officials annually distribute 700,000 needles to addicts, the incidence of hepatitis B has dropped 75 percent while the number of AIDS-infected drug users has stabilized over the past two years. Similar programs in Canada, Great Britain, France, Switzerland and Australia have blunted AIDS transmission among the IV drug-using population. 

Today in the United States, municipal health departments trade needles in Tacoma, Seattle and Boulder. Private agencies make exchanges in Portland, Oregon and San Francisco. But political opposition to needle programs blocked exchanges in Los Angeles, Chicago and Boston. At the federal level, President George Bush (DC '48) opposes free needle distribution. Last year, Congress refused to fund needles or bleach kits for addicts. 

Eight months ago, New York City Mayor David Dinkins scrapped the nation's first government-sponsored needle exchange. In a city where health officials estimate that half of the 200,000 IV drug users now carry the AIDS virus, only 300 addicts participated in the program. Dinkins told The New York Times on February 14, "I don't want to give people the paraphernalia to continue using drugs." City Councilman Hilton B. Clark called the needle exchange genocidal, explaining that it promoted drug use among African-American and Latino people, who make up the majority of IV drug users in New York. 

Connecticut Assemblyman Dyson thinks that needle programs prevent the destruction of communities. "If I'm doing nothing about the spread of AIDS and I know how it spreads, then that's genocide," he said. While Dyson admits that passing out needles may appear to condone drug use, he argues that saving lives is a more pressing concern. "Since current prevention programs aren't working, common sense tells us we ought to look at something else," he said. 

Some of Dyson's colleagues think that needle exchanges will only make matters worse. State Assemblyman Eugene Migliaro thinks a government-sponsored needle program will not only support current habits but will encourage new drug users. "The needle exchange is giving drug pushers a sales pitch," he said. "Kids are now wary of IV drug use because they're afraid of AIDS. The needleprogrameliminatesthatfear." 

Lugo argues that needle distribution won't create new IV drug users. She says that people don't start using drugs just because someone gives them a needle. "Drug users start by sniffing or smoking," she said. "They don't start shooting up right away." She claims that addicts progress from joints to needles in search of a greater high. 

Last spring, Lugo told the state legislature that needle distribution would save lives. Dyson steered the needle exchange bill through the House Committee on Appropriations, which he co-chairs. "The fact that I felt strongly about the program helped it pass," he said. Two-thirds of the General Assembly voted for a city-sponsored needle exchange. Legislators outlined a demonstration program for a city with a high incidence of AIDS and an operating


**AIDS Prevention Program in New Haven**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
AIDS prevention program. With 
more AIDS cases than any other 
city in the state, New Haven fit the 
hill. Lawmakers set aside $25,000 · 
for the program and New Haven 
will match that figure. 
Morlc Boclget/The New Journal 
lators ruled that the law prohibit-
ing needle distribution would not 
apply to the New Haven exchange 
program. 

Assemblyman Migliaro thought 
the legislature should have backed 
away from the needle exchange 
program as well. "Needle exchange 
didn't work in New York," said 
Migliaro. "It won't work here ei-
ther." O'Keefe says that New Haven's 
program will be different from the 
one in New York. There, drug users 
had to exchange their needles at 
the health department headquar-
ters in lower Manhattan. In New 
Haven, outreach workers will take 
Still, legislators rejected a more 
comprehensive needle proposal. "We 
were looking for the decriminaliza-
tion of needle possession," said Elaine 
O'Keefe, director of the AIDS Divi-
sion of the New Haven Department 
of Health. With the passage of such 
legislation, anyone could have pur-
chased needles and syringes with-
out a prescription, as is the practice 
in 39 other states. "Once the pro-
posal for decriminalization became 
widely known, people backed away 
from it," Dyson said. Instea.d, legis-
. the needles to the neighborhoods 
where addicts shoot up. "We'll travel 
the same streets we visit now," Lugo 
September 7. 1990 


**Expanding Treatment for AIDS Prevention**
**Author: Ellen Katz**
**Page number(s): 27**

Ayala. "But we're trying to get as 
many in as possible. " She antici-
pates that the needle exchange will 
show that the demand for treat-
ment is high. "We're hoping this 
will get funds opened up." 
AIDS activists continue to de-
mand that government agencies 
expand treatment facilities. Yale 
Professor Alvin Novick, chairman 
of the Mayor's Task Force on AIDS, 
stresses that drug treatment is an 
essential component of any effec-
tive AIDS prevention program. 
"Needle exchange is a public health 
band-aid to keep people alive until 
we can help them more, " he said. 
For now, Lugo and her co-work-
ers are stocking a health depart-
ment van with clean needles. They 
expect many addicts will meet them 
when they hit the streets later this 
month. "People have been calling 
us for weeks now, " Lugo said. 
"They're asking how they can get 
the needles." 
li1J 
Ellen Katz, a senior in Timothy 
Dwight College, is Managing Editor 
o{TNJ. 
September 7, 1990 


Everything from Apple .Bran Muffins 
to Zucchini Lasagne 
Eat in or take out delicious vegetarian foods. 
Anything from homemade muffins, scones, and 
gourmet coffees to full course meals and fabulous desserts. 

7 ¢
7 
Printing 
Our 19th year serving t he Greater New Haven Corporate, 
Copying 
Commercial, Financial, l egal and Academic communities. 
• Hl9ll !lpMcl Copying 
• 
Self -... Copying 
• ,.,. Colo< u.- Copt .. 
• OUe tMy Prlfttlnt 
• Deolttop Publlalllnt 
• Colot Printing 
• Self S«v• Meclntooll 
Binding 
. u .. rw rlter Pr'"•• 
• ,., .. Mecllln• Collatln!! 
Two Convenient City Locations 
776-6000 
Co p ying 
Main Location 
27 Whitney Ave. 
(corner of Whitney and Grove) 
777-1111 
On York Street 
280 York St. 
(batw"" Broadway and Grove) 
Copyi ng 
Pick-up and Delivery Service



**Title: Aftealltought**
**Author: Josh Plaut**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Aftealltought/Josh Plaut 
And Then I Woke Up 
I had a nightmare last night. In the 
dream, I was sitting with my dad 
and my two older brothers watching 
a Yankees game on TV. 
Yanks 
pitcher Andy Hawkins stood on the 
mound, clutching a bushel of Texas 
ruby grapefruits. It was daytime, 
but the stadium lights were on. The 
place was deserted. Detroit slugger 
Cecil Fielder emerged from the 
shadows behind home plate, carrying 
an aluminum bat as wide as a fire 
extinguisher and as long as a 
push broom. My dad jumped to his 
feet. "That's not a Louisville slug-
ger. He can't use it. It's made of 
tin." 
"Steel," my oldest brother mut-
tered, pulling him back into the 
couch. 
"Aluminum," I corrected. "That 
bat's made from aluminum." 
Fielder took a few practice cuts 
before stepping into the box. Each 
time he swung the enormous bat, 
waves of discarded hot dog wrap-
pers and CrackerJack boxes gusted 
across the screen. Phil Rizzuto was 
doing the play-by-play, but here-
fused to talk about baseball. As 
Fielder stepped into the box, Rizzuto 
described the Chicken Fran~ais at 
Mama Leone's. "The finest sauce in 
the tri-state area." Fielder set his 
feet, took a couple imal cuts and 
fixed his eyes on the pitching mound. 
Hawkins set the basket on the 
infield grass behind him, selected a 
nice mushy fruit, and returned to 
the mound. He spat, took a deep 
breath, and started his wind-up. 
Hawkins reared back, kicked and 
flung an enormous, looping lob. 
Fielder grinned fiendishly, waiting 
for the helpless citrus to reach the 
plate. As the fruit floated towards 
him, my brothers fell out of their 
seatsandrolledaroundonthecarpet. 
"The lob," they howled. 
"Back in your seats," my father 
commanded. They climbed back 
onto the couch. 
The fruit was still in flight. 
Fielder licked his lips greedily. Finally, the grapefruit reached the 
plate. Fielder stepped into the pitch, 
letting his mighty bat unwind. The 
massive cylinder wooshed through 
the air, speeding towards the fruit. 
At last, he made contact. Splat. 
The grapefruit disintegrated with 
the force of the swing. Pulp and 
seeds filled the air, coating camera 
lenses. Hawkins, knocked over by 
the force of the blast, lay sprawled 
on the mound. A layer of grapefruit 
gunk coated his face. My brothers 
held their heads in dismay. My 
father bit his nails. 
"He shouldn't have thrown the 
lob," my oldest brother said. 
"Not to Fielder," my other brother 
said. 
At this point, the dream took a 
turnfortheworse. "Where'sMom?" 
I asked. 
"She's. . . uh, where the hell is 
she?" my father asked, alarmed. 
"I thought she was upstairs," 
my oldest brother said. 
They walked around downstairs 
calling her name, looking behind 
cans in the kitchen cabinets and 
under the dining room table. I ran 
upstairs. I rushed into her room, 
hoping to find her reading the 
newspaper or talking on the phone. 
No luck. I looked in my room. Per-
haps she's rearranging the book-
shelves or folding sweaters. Not 
there. 
"Have you found her?" my father 
yelled from downstairs. I stood still, 
stopping to listen. I heard his voice-
deep and always a little too loud. I 
heard cars passing outside, the 
pendulum clock ticking in the front 
hall, the air conditioner pumping 
air into my bedroom. I heard water 
pouring into an overflowing ·tub. 
Water. I rushed through the little 
hall towards the bathroom. The 
door was half open. Steam poured 
into the passageway. Why did it 
take me this long to notice? 
Inside the tile-covered bathroom, 
my mother had sunk to the bottom 
of the bath tub. She was blue. The 
water was perfectly clear. I reached 
under her arms to pull her body out 
of the tub. She was still breathing. 
Pulling her up was easy enough, 
but soon she started thrashing 
around, fighting to get back under 
water. 


I woke up. 
I told my brother Jeff about the 
dream, but he didn't say much. I 
thought of maybe telling my father, 
but it's not the kind of stuff that he 
likes to hear. He doesn't hold much 
stock in dreams. "Dreams are the 
mind's way of getting rid of garbage," 
he once told me. "No reason to go 
digging through the garbage." 
I don't like dreams much. They 
have this way of making me feel 
abnormal. 
I go to bed tranquil, 
collected, well-adjusted. I have a 
weird dream and the next morning 
I wake up wondering if I'm a luna-
tic. Just when I think I've emerged 
from late-adolescence unscathed, I 
have this dream chock full of psycho-
sexual imagery .. 
I feel like I've been teleported 
back to those junior high school 
nights when I'd dream that I forgot 
to put pants on. There I was, standing 
on the lunch line, reaching for a 
plate of ziti when I realized that I 
was totally naked from the waist 
down. No rust-colored Levis' cor-
duroys, no Fruit of the Loom briefs. 
Just me standing buck naked in the 
junior high school cafeteria. When 
I woke up, I would tell myself that I 
hadn't been exposed. I'd sit on the 
side of my bed, reworking the dream 
so that I was covered with a loin 
cloth, a jock strap, a fig leaf. In 
truth, I knew I was exposed, but it 
made me feel better to pretend. 
I shouldn't be having weird 
dreams anymore. Out of nowhere, 
my mother enters my dreamscape 
from stage left. 
It's eight years 
later, and I've traded adolescent 
sexual self-awareness for creepy 
Oedipal anxiety. All of a sudden, 
Josh Plaut, Yale College senior, has 
been kidnapped by Josh P.-<!ase 
study in Freudian psychopathology. 
What's more, the dream really scared 
me. I woke up sure that I had let my 
motherdie. Itmustmeansomething 
bad. Anything so vivid, so emotion-
ally intense, so grotesque, can't be 
good. 
The dream has too much un-
nerving sex stuff for my taste. Cecil 
Fielder swung an enormous phallic 
symbol. Andy Hawkins hurledjuicy, 
seed-laden fruit. I searched the family 
bedrooms for my mother. I rushed 
into a steamy bathroom to find her 
submerged in a bathtub. These 
aren't healthy things for me to be 
dreaming. I'm anxious about the 
whole thing, but also a little bit 
annoyed. Why me? I've already 
read Portnoy's Complaint. I don't 
need to dream it. 
What's more, the dream made 
me anxious I might harbor deep-
seated, repressed feelings about my 
family. During waking hours, my 
brothers are my two closest friends. 
Why should they get portrayed as 
dip-shits when I'm asleep? I guess 
I harbor a lot of hostility towards 
them that I didn't even know about. 
My dad is a little preoccupied with 
control, but he's not the tyrant my 
dream makes him out to be. Maybe 
I don't love him anymore. I thought 
I had a pretty healthy relationship 
with my mom, but in my dream I let 
her die naked. Am I losing my 
marbles? I'd like to think not, but 
the evidence to the contrary seems 
pretty convincing. 
I should sit down and figure 
this dream out. I might be on the 
verge of a nervous breakdown with-
out even knowing it. Maybe I can 
save myself before it's too late. But 
I don't want to do the digging. Too 
time consuming, too disconcerting. 
So here's my plan. I'm turning the 
burden of analysis over to you. Use 
your particular skills to tell me what's 
going on. 
For the biology-minded, describe 
the brain behavior responsible for 
dreaming. Tell me about Erikson's 
stages of social development. Tell 
me about neuro-chemicals and syn-
aptic transmission. Draw a diagram 
of my hippocampus. I'm even will-
ing to take part in experiments ex-
ploring family dynamics. 
What-
ever it takes. 
Maybe you have a sociological 
background. You can tell me a bit 
about socialization. Talk to me about 
group dynamics. Tell me how the 
mores of American Jewish culture 
have affected my relationship with 
my mother. Explain how the dy-
namic between parent and child can 
be influenced by a whole range of 
factors. Describe how my father's 
task-oriented outlook influences my 
perceptions of the family unit. De-
fine sanctions and delineate the pa-
rameters of social control within a 
family. How are boundaries estab-
lished? How are they enforced? 
And for the literary-minded, how 
about some close reading. Your job 
is to construct a problematic, but 
attainable, coherence. Make some 
sense out of my dreamscape. What 
difference does the author-or 
dreamer-make? Show me the ar-
chetypal myth structures to which 
my dream corresponds. Discuss how 
the dream laments the difficulties 
of signification. Do what you can. 
When you finish with your 
analysis, type up a summary of your 
findings. Print the document out, 
place a folded copy in a business 
envelope and shove it in the back of 
your sock drawer. It's quite pos-
sible I'm nuts, but I don't think I 
am. I hope you don't either. If you 
do, I'd rather not hear about it. Let 
me labor under the delusion that 
I'm totally normal. If need be, 
condemn me for having a false-con-
sciousness. I can live with that. 
After all, it was only a dream. Ill) 
Josh Plaut, a senior in Timothy 
Dwight College, is Managing 
Editor of TNJ.


**Title: llle Gnu Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
lle Gnu Journal 
Come to our organizational meeting and lind out! 
8 o' clock p.m. 
Wednesday 
September 12 
Silliman Common Room 



**Title: Yale Quick Copy Center**
**Page number(s): 32**

Yale Quick Copy CenteTI 
Park 
149 . York 
-~ 
IIAC 
mgb 
j 
l 
014 Claa,pa8 
• 
eouege 
Copies 
only 3Ya¢* 
,, 
149 York Street 
432-COPY 
(432-2679) 
8 to 5 
Monday-Friday 
Resumes 
Tabletents 
Posters 
Course material 
Typesetting from 
Macintosh disks 
& whatnot 
-Still the lowest 
prices in Elm City 
•per copy for more than ten oopies of the same ortg1nal; 
the pr1oe 1s 4 cents each for one to ten copies.

