Publication date: 04/18
Volume 50, Issue 5

**Title: POINT OF DEPARTURE**
**Author: Talia Schechet**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“cling bins.”
But Town Green Services is trying to reduce panhandling. Each of its last four annual reports touts statistics of 
“panhandling interventions”: in the 2017 annual report, 
that number is 6,791, a 55 percent increase from 2016. 
During our interview, Davis delineated two types of panhandlers: “passive” and “aggressive.” He describes “passive 
panhandlers” as solicitors sitting or standing by storefronts. 
In the District, they must receive permission from shopkeepers before soliciting money in front of businesses. 
If they don’t have permission, ambassadors ask them to 
move. Meanwhile, Davis defines “aggressive panhandlers” as people soliciting money who “refuse to take no 
for an answer” or make physical contact with pedestrians, 
and “make you feel so uncomfortable that all of a sudden 
it feels like nothing to pull a dollar out of your pocket just 
to get that person away from you.” When encountering 
such solicitors, ambassadors are instructed to give warning 
before calling the police, sometimes even following solicitors so the police can find them. 
 “The ambassadors are snitches,” said a former machinist who has been homeless for four years, waiting in line 
for lunch on a Sunday outside Trinity Church on the 
Green. He said that ambassadors contact the police even 
when they find people sleeping on the Green. While 
ambassadors may intend to connect people sleeping 
outside to shelter, the former machinist, who wished to 
remain anonymous, sounded frustrated by these encounters. Town Green Services’ mission to make the downtown 
area prosperous may work at the expense of community 
members experiencing homelessness, who often cannot 
patronize the businesses the District was created, in part, 
to support. “If you’re homeless,” said a disabled former 
carpenter after collecting parcels of food, “you’re looked 
down upon, no matter your circumstances.” Despite Win 
Davis’s greeting, not everyone feels welcome around the 
Green.
Services abandoned the initiative when the supervising 
officer was reassigned.


Though the organizations’ main constituents are its 
surtax-paying business owners, Davis, born and raised in 
New Haven, affirms it benefits all locals. He recalls the 
mid-nineties, which preceded Town Green’s conception, 
as a “real tough time for New Haven,” citing gang violence 
on Chapel Street and low property values. In addition to 
“stabilizing” downtown, Davis claims, the Town Green 
District relieves low-income residential neighborhoods of 
tax burden because it comprises a disproportionate 12 percent of New Haven’s tax income –– a number he hopes 
will rise. “As this neighborhood goes,” he intoned, “so go 
the rest of the city and the residential neighborhoods.”


Not everyone agrees with Davis. Laura Barraclough, 
a professor of American Studies at Yale, rejects Town 
Greens Services’ everyone-wins mantra. “Simply suggesting that increased growth in the downtown area is going 
to benefit everyone is inaccurate,” she said, noting that 
money generated by wealthier neighborhoods tends to be 
reinvested there. 


Although Barraclough acknowledges that Town Green 
is partially a symptom of underfunded municipal governments, she situates it within a troubling trend guided by 
neoliberalism.  Since the seventies, she said, there has 
been a growing belief that urban governments are neither 
efficient nor effective and that “the private sector could do 
better.” As private organizations driven by economic interest take over functions traditionally carried out by the city, 
Barraclough said, marginalized people, including those 
experiencing homelessness, are harassed, criminalized, 
and driven out of public spaces. 


Business owners and managers in the Town Green 
District have different ideas about how to treat members of these populations, many of whom solicit money 
in and around their stores. Leila Crockett, who manages 
the employee-owned Artist & Craftsman Supply store on 
east Chapel Street, said she thinks addressing solicitors 
should involve “providing housing, for a start, for people 
who don’t have a place to live, services for people who 
don’t have enough to eat, services for people who have 
addiction issues.” She acknowledges that “panhandling 
makes some people really uncomfortable,” but advocates 
a compassionate approach to interacting with solicitors. 
“My advice is to treat people who are panhandling like 
any other person,” she said. “It generally doesn’t bother 
me, as long as people are polite.”


Munaza Ali, who has managed Pitaziki Mediterranean 
Grill since it opened in 2014, thinks Town Green Services 
isn’t doing enough to monitor panhandling. “Homeless 
people walk into my store every day and panhandle,” she 
said, seated in the restaurant on a Thursday night. “The 
only changes I’ve seen [made by Town Green] are recy-
— Talia Schechet is a junior 
in Saybrook College.