Publication date: September 4, 1992
Volume: 25
Issue number: 1

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editorials: Kathy Reich


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
About This Issue
NewsJournal
Tennis, Everyone
Lingua Franca
London Calling
Between the Vines: Schoolhouse Rock. - Valerie Burgher
Landlords Take a Loss. - Joel Tesoro
Muskets and Mortarboards: A History of Yale-New Haven. - Charlotte Brooks
Benno Schmidt's Troubled Tenure. - Erik Meen
Lamar Rides Again. - Kathy Reich
Women's Clinics in Crisis. - Sonya Joo
And Justice for All. - David Gerber
Dixie Blues. - Jay Porter


**Title: A Yalie's Best Friend**
**Author: [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 2**

**Title: Between the Vines: Schoolhouse Rock.**
**Author: Valerie Burgher**
**Page number(s): 10**


**Title: Landlords Take a Loss.**
**Author: Joel Tesoro**
**Page number(s): 12**

Th~ fate of N~ Havm s subsidized 
housing hangs in th~ balanu.


**Title: Muskets and Mortarboards: A History of Yale-New Haven.**
**Author: Charlotte Brooks**
**Page number(s): 16**

Todays town-gown squabbles sum lik~ childs play 
compared to th~ pitch~d battles ofyears past.


**Title: Benno Schmidt's Troubled Tenure.**
**Author: Erik Meen**
**Page number(s): 20**

Whm th~ Corporation 
tapped Bmno Schmidt for Yaks presidmcy, they did not anticipate th~ 
controversy that th~ next 6 years would bring.


**Title: Lamar Rides Again.**
**Author: Kathy Reich**
**Page number(s): 26**

An ~stum~d form" tkan and history 
professor performs one mor~ act ofurvice for Yak.


**Title: Women's Clinics in Crisis.**
**Author: Sonya Joo**
**Page number(s): 32**

Plagued by the ejficts of th~ Gag 
Rule and the r~cession, Conn~cticuts family planning clinics struggle to 
maintain quality care for all womm.


**Title: And Justice for All.**
**Author: David Gerber**
**Page number(s): 34**

Th~ Law Schools Sch~ll Cmur for 
Human Rights vi~s liberti~s in th~ context of ~conomics as w~ll as politics.


**Title: Dixie Blues.**
**Author: Jay Porter**
**Page number(s): 36**

For many Southnn~ who com~ to Yak, th~ 
distance from Dixie to N~ Haven is m~asured in more than miles.



**Title: About This Issue**
**Author: The Editors**
**Page number(s): 5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Chinese have a favorite curse: "May you live in interesting 
times." Those of us who study and teach at Yale right now can 
certainly appreciate the meaning of those words. All around us, 
the debate swirls about the future of the American university. How can 
Yale stay in the black, yet continue to offer a multifaceted education 
that tackles the problems of our constantly changing world? And who 
will lead us imo the 21st century? 

In our special issue last February, The New Journal asked the 
question: "What does the future hold for Yale?" We examined the 
university's tenure and restructuring process, several of its academic 
departments, and its relations with New Haven. As the new semester 
begins, some of the turbulence is behind us. We have a new 
administration char intends to heal the rift berween community and 
Woodbridge Hall. In our kick-off issue of 1992-93, we try to illuminate 
these developments, and explore off-the-beaten-track aspects of campus 
life--everything from Southern students at Yale to the awakening band 
scene. 

The New Journal's scope also encompasses the vibrant and 
complicated city in which we live. This month we tackle New Haven's 
low-income housing crisis, the funding crunch in women's health care, 
and the bloody history of town-gown relations. 

You too can gee in the on the action. The New Journal is 
looking for writers, designers, photographers, artists, computer whizzes, 
and financial geniuses for our business staff. Join us at our 
organizational meeting on Tuesday, September 8th at 8 p.m. in the 
Berkeley Common Room. We want to hear your ideas. 

-
The Editors.


**Title: The New Journal**
**Author:  Sarah Dijulio, Kathy Reich, Emily Bazelon, Charlotte Brooks, Erik Meers, Tina Asmuth, Annette Kirchner, jay Porter, Valerie Burgher, Kathleen Weyman, ]oil Tesoro, Beth Zaslo.lf, Rosita Choy, Kate Brewster, Julie Freedman, David Gerber, Jason Gilbert, Sonya Joo, Savannah Neely, Michael Rubin, Seija Tupasela, Edward B. Bennerr III, Constance Clement, Peter B. Cooper, Andy Court Brooks Kelley, Patricia Pierce, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Edward B. Bennett, Jr., Edward B. Bennett Ill, Blaire Bennett, Gerald Bruck, Jonathan M. Clark, Louise F. Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Jerry and Rae Court, David Freeman, Geoffiey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, John Hersey, Brooks Kelley, Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr., Lewis E. Leluman, E. Nobles lowe, Peter Neill, Julie Peters, Fairfax C. Randal, Nicholas X. Rizopoulos, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Dick and Debbie Sears, Richard Shields, Thomas StrOng, Elizabeth Tate, Alex and Betsy Torello, Allen and Sarah Wardell, Danid Yergin**
**Page number(s): 4**

PUBLISHER 
Sarah Dijulio 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Kathy Reich 
MANAGING EDITORS 
Emily Bazelon 
Charlotte Brooks 
SENIOR EDITOR 
Erik Meers 
BusiNESS MANAGER 
TinaAsmuth 
DESIGNER 
Annette Kirchner 
PRODUCTION MANAGER 
jay Porter 
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR 
Valerie Burgher 
AssociATE PuBLISHER 
Kathleen Weyman 
AssociATE EDITOR 
]oil Tesoro 
AssociATE DESIGNOR 
Beth Zaslo.lf 
ALUMNI DIRECTOR 
Rosita Choy 
STAFF 
Kate Brewster• Julie Freedman• 
David Gerber* • Jason Gilbert • 
Sonya Joo • Savannah Neely • 
Michael Rubin*• Seija Tupasela 
*elected August 29, 1992 
Mnnbers and Directors: Edward B. 
Bennerr III • Constance Clement 
Peter B. Cooper • Andy Court Brooks 
Kelley • Patricia Pierce • Fred 
Strebeigh • Thomas Strong 
Friends: Anson M. Beard, Jr. • Edward B. 
Bennett, Jr. • Edward B. Bennett Ill • Blaire 
Bennett • Gerald Bruck • Jonathan M. Clark 
Louise F. Cooper • Peter B. Cooper • Jerry 
and Rae Court • David Freeman • Geoffiey 
Fried • Sherwin Goldman • John Hersey 
Brooks Kelley • Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr. 
Lewis E. Leluman • E. Nobles lowe • Peter 
Neill • Julie Peters .-Fairfax C. Randal 
Nicholas X. Rizopoulos • Arleen and Arthur 
Sager • Dick and Debbie Sears • Richard 
Shields • Thomas StrOng • Elizabeth Tate 
Alex and Betsy Torello • Allen and Sarah 
Wardell • Danid Yergin 
SEPTEMBER .. 1992 


SHOP 
21 B roadway, New Haven 
15 
°/cffo Any one item in 
o 
the store - ---
NoiiObe ____ 
.... .,._ 
YALE T-Shirts, Shorts, Sweats, 
Caps, Kid Stuff, Souvenirs, & More 
562-0407 


DID 
r--------, 
I 
Cleaner s Inc . I 
10°/o OFF I 
~ 
DRY CLEANING II 
WITH THIS 
1 
~w couPON! I 
Dry CleaJJi'ng • Alterations 
I Repairs • LaundryService • Sh1rls" l 
Next to theY ale Co-Op 
L--~:!.~--~~~~~ 
1 21 7 CHAPEL STREET 
787-3988 


--------
1Film Developing Sale 1 
11 2 exp ........................ 1 . 99 1 
115 exp ........................ 2.99 1 
124 exp ........................ 3. 99 1 
136 exp ........................ 5. 99 1 
Econo - 1 eoch 3 X 5 glossy prints 
C-4 1 negotives only 
must accompany orders exptres 10/31 /~ 


1 ALL DARKROOM 1 
: 
SUPPLIES 
I 10% OFF I 


**Title: Tennis, Everyone?**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 6**

As New Haven anticipated the 
arrival of professional tennis stars for 
the Volvo International Tournament, 
local youngsters geared up for an event 
of their own. In early July, dozens of 
New Haven kids gathered at the Yale 
Bowl itching to hit the courts and 
compete against other budding young 
players from New York, Connecticut, 
and New Jersey. The tournament, like 
the community clinic program that 
gave rhe kids playing time and instruc-
tion throughout the year, earned rave 
reviews from its young participants. 

"This is only my second tournament," 
said Jason Diosa, who plays at a clinic 
at the Edgewood courts every summer 
morning. "I like the sport, and the 
coaches make it fun to go and learn 
strokes." 

In 1990, Jewel Productions, which 
owns and operates the Volvo-spon-
sored pro tournament, moved the 
event from Vermont to New Haven. 
To open the traditionally upper crust 
sport of tennis to youth in urban 
neighborhoods, they created the grass-
rootS tennis clinic program. "We want 
to see the city kids become as comfort-
able on the tennis court as they have 
been in the sandlot in years past," said 
Jean McAndrews, the program direc-
tor. "We see tennis as a positive pres-
ence in the neighborhood that can give 
these kids something to be proud of." 

Jewel Productions coordinates the 
program with the city of New Haven, 
the 
New 
Haven 
Recreational 
Department, the public school system, 
and the United States Tennis 
Association. To develop and refine the 
program so that it best meers the com-
munity's needs, McAndrews works 
year-round with city and public school 
officials, New Haven recreation direc-
tors, and an advisory board put togeth-
er by Mayor John Daniels. 

During the school year, the pro-
gram focuses on local middle schools, 
training gym instructors to teach tennis 
6 TH£ N£w jouRNAL 
alongside more traditional gym class 
sports like basketball and baseball. In 
addition, Volvo runs after-school clin-
ics at eight locations in New Haven. 
Winter after-school clinics take place 
once or twice a week in school gyms, 
where instructors lower volleyball nets 
and substitute Nerf balls for the tradi-
tional hard rubber variety. Summer 
weather allows the clinics to move out-
doors to park courtS and school yards. 

The program has grown steadily 
over the past three years. In 1990, 
summer clinics provided daily free 
at the Yale Bowl's Center Court. 
instruction to more than 400 New 
H aven kids of all ages, offering a total 
of 850 free coaching hours. Last year 
the program expanded to Bridgeport. 
It now reaches a total of 900 kids with 
1,260 free hours of coaching. In addi-
tion, more than 250 students partici-
pate each week in the year-round mid-
dle-school program. This summer the 
program began sponsoring the 
Governor's Cup, a full day of Davis 
Cup-style team competition in mid-
August. Two boys and girls from each 
of seven area cities compete, and final-
ists receive formal recognition by 
Connecticut governor Lowell Weicker 
which draws top-notch professional 
competitors from around the world. 

Kids from the grassroots program get 
free admission to some of the tourna-
ment's matches. Their game benefits 
from more than just observation; some 
of the pros find rime between matches 
to hold clinics. In recent years, stars 
like Arthur Ashe, Stefan Edberg, Ivan 
Lend!, and MaliVai Washington have 
donated their t_ime. Some pros also 
conduct clinics during the year and 
speak about how tennis can make kids 
winners not only as athletes, but also as 
srudenrs and members of the commu-
nity. 

Kids learn th~ basics at a fr~~ clinic run by Nro~ Havm s grassroots tmnis program. 



**Title: A New Haven Tennis Program**
**Author: Stephanie Lowelt**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The program tries co recruit 
coaches from New Haven, and often 
taps local high school and college stu-
dents. Instructor Tilden Lyons, who 
has worked at the program since its 
inception, sees his job as more chan 
teaching topspin. "It's more chan just 
exercise for these kids. You really gee 
to help them mature both on and off 
the court." 

Because the program spans the 
summer, coaches and students have 
time to get to know each other. 
"These kids are so much fun to teach," 
said coach Brett Demambro. "By the 
end of the summer they seem like fam-
ily, not just kids you help with a few 
strokes. We take them out to lunch 
after the clinic sometimes, or just sic 
and talk." The mentor aspect of the 
program motivates Demambro to 
teach during hot and humid New 
H aven summers. "I probably won't 
turn anyone into a tennis superstar, 
but I definitely let the children know 
that there are people here for them, 
that they're not alone," she said. 

Twelve-year old Lopez Williams 
enjoys the program for simpler rea-
sons. "It's free!" he said, and then 
added, "No, really, I just like being 
able to play." 
-St~phani~ Low~lt


**Title: Lingua Franca**
**Author: Rosita Choy**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

T he police officer stood between 
the two cars with crushed bumpers as 
the couple from Hong Kong fumbled 
nervously through a stack of papers in 
search of their vehicle registration 
card. When they could not find it, 
they began to panic. Although they 
could speak in broken English, they 
lapsed into unintelligible spurts. The 
officer simply could not understand 
their account of the accident. Before 
the couple grew more exasperated, an 
Asian Community Services (ACS) vol-
unteer inside Yale's Chicano/Asian 
American Cultural Center heard the 
commotion and stepped outside to 
SaPTEMBEit ... 1991 
translate for the two. 

After she 
explained the accident to the officer, 
she brought the shaken couple into the 
center for their weekly lesson. 

ACS strives to prevent such situa-
tions by easing Asian immigrants' 
transition into the New Haven com-
munity. The service provides free 
English lessons every weekend at the 
Chicano/Asian American Cultural 
Center and refers clients to bilingual 
doctors, lawyers, and other social ser-
vice providers. Nearly 50 volunteers 
from Yale and New Haven tutor Asian 
residents of the Elm C ity and nearby 
areas on a one-to-one basis. 

Asian 
American 
Students' 
Association (AASA) co-moderators 
Mary Hsu and Alberta Wu founded 
ACS in 1979 as a branch of AASA, 
and it has since become an indepen-
dent organization affiliated with 
Dwight Hall. Initially, the service pri-
marily catered to immigrants from 
Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos. At the 
time, few teaching materials existed in 
the languages of those countries, so 
volunteers translated or created their 
own. 

Today, more than 13 years after 
ACS's 
creation, 
families 
from 
Southeast Asia no longer dominate the 
clientele. Instead, many of the current 
students emigrated from Hong Kong 
or China years ago and work in busi-
nesses that require little knowledge of 
English, such as Chinese restaurants. 
Some cooks and waiters at local estab-
lishments live in New York City. 
Usually m~n. they find that work is 
scarce in the metropolitan area, secure 
jobs in New Haven, and stay five or six 
days a week in apartments provided by 
their employers. Although they spend 
most of their time in New Haven, they 
maintain families in New York, which 
boasts a larger Asian community. 

During a typical lesson for these 
students, ACS volunteers teach vocab-
ulary and basic reading skills. For 
more advanced pupils, tutors explain 
the complicated connotations and 
idioms of the English language. ACS 
instructs a growing number of such 
students, who hail most frequently 
from China, Japan, and Korea. They 
attend Yale graduate programs or do 
research for the Medical School as 
post-doctoral students, and already 
have a command of English. Some are 
renowned in their native countries and 
have even published journals in 
English. They attend ACS to perfect 
their conversational skills and to learn 
the subtleties of the language. Their 
spouses often come to classes as well. 

ACS students are not the only 
ones to benefit from the service. 
·~ Tutors also appreciate the opportunity 
'! to interact with New Haven's diverse 
·r; and growing Asian population. "The 
~ structure of the program lends itself to 
(3 speaking about two cultures," explains 
Jennifer Hock (SM '94), who tutored 
the wife of a graduate student. "We 
talked about aspects of American cui-
cure, aspects of Japanese culture, and 
those common to both. 
I found 
myself speaking about what it means 
to me to be an American." 
-Rosita Choy


**Title: London Calling**
**Author: Rija Tupasala**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

On their first day in England, a 
group of Yale-in-London students 
went house-hunting. At one of the 
homes, th~ u.vner, an elderly art histo-
ry professor, not only walked them 
through his house, but also took the 
rest of the day to show them the sights 
of the city. As he shepherded them 
Ttu: NEW jOURNAL 7 
from John Keats' house to Hampstead 
Heath and Parliament Hill, the profes-
sor waxed eloquent about local lore 
and treated them to a typical pub 
lunch. "At first we were suspicious of 
his intentions, then astonished," said 
Janice Pomerance (CC '93). "We final-
ly chalked it up to a lavish display of 
English hospitality." 

Yale-in-London is the only over-
seas program that Yale sponsors. 
ing distance, and most major London 
galleries nearby. Students and scholars 
here virtually breathe British culture." 

Part of the curriculum involves visits 
to museums, London theaters, and a 
three-day excursion to the English 
countryside. 

Participants appreciate the oppor-
tunity to enhance their understanding 
of Britain through the experience of 
living in London. "The theater trips 
Yogi Nimura (CC '93) lov~d th~ sights and sounds of London. 
Industrialist Paul Mellon set up an 
endowment in 1981 to allow American 
students to experience British art and 
culture first-hand through the Paul 
Mellon Centre for Studies in British 
Art. The research-oriented Centre pro-
vides program participants with an 
excellent library on British art and a 
photographic archive of 75,000 prints 
and 20,000 negatives of British paint-
ing, sculpture, and drawing. 

What students cannot find within 
the centre exists just beyond its walls. 
London, with its museums, galleries, 
theaters, universities, and libraries, is a 
vast resource in itself. "Our central 
location in London has always been 
very important," said centre director 
Michael Kitson. "The British Museum 
and Reading Room are just down the 
road, the theater district within walk-
were fantastic," said Yoji Nimura (CC 
'93), who attended the program last 
spring. "And getting the chance to 
study in a large international city like 
London was an essential part of the 
program." 

Yale-in-London consists of four 
courses each semester on subjects 
ranging from art and art history to 
architecture, drama, and literature. 
Since fewer than 15 students enroll in 
the program, they get the chance to 
work closely with professors. "We have 
the opportunity to get to know the 
students personally," said deputy 
director Brian Allen. Nirnura appreci-
ated the individual attention profes-
sors gave their students. "Having 
three professors teaching nine students 
in four seminars is something you'd 
never get at Yale," he said. "We would 
S EPTEMBER 4· 1992. 
even go out together to the theater 
and to pubs." 

Despite its attractions and initial 
popularity, Yale-in-London has suf-
fered from a lack of student interest in 
recent years. The Gulf War and the 
recession have made students less 
enthusiastic about spending a semester 
or year in England. "I suspect that par-
ems are thinking twice about sending 
their children overseas because of the 
expense," Kitson said. 

In addition, most undergraduates 
know very little about Yale-in-
London. Although the Paul Mellon 
Centre and the Yale Center for British 
Art (BAC) publicize the program 
through 
information 
sessions, 
brochures, and posters, most students 
who decide to attend hear of it 
through friends. "Students get so 
much mail that they probably throw 
away our brochure almost immediate-
ly," lamented Allen. "Our best recruit-
ment has tended to be word-of-
mouth, especially through our stu-
dents and professors." 

Kitson believes that the elimina-
tion of the British Studies program in 
1986 cut off the most obvious channel 
for recruitment. And Yale's continued 
lack of encouragement for study 
abroad has dealt the London program 
a further blow. In Kitson's opinion, 
Yale departments should actively sup-
port the College's only overseas pro-
gram by recommending it to students 
interested in British art, history, 
drama, or literature. 

Although the Paul Mellon Centre 
does not depend financially on Yale-
in-London, Kitson and Allen fed con-
cern for the program's future. "The 
problem is recruiting enough students 
to make the whole program economi-
cally viable," said Allen. "The other 
things we do on Yale's behalf-like 
promoting the study of British art as 
the sister institute to the BAG-are all 
very well. But we would like to contin-
ue this connection with Yale under-
graduates." 
-&ija Tupasela

**Title: Schoolhouse Rock**
**Author: Valerie Burgher**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When you think "Yale," images of electric guitars, 
narc drums, and smoke-filled stages don't usually come to mind. But while the campus is no 
musical mecca, Yale did see the birth of several new groups 
in 1992, as some old favorites marched on. New Haven 
and Yale collaborations also helped resuscitate the once-
floundering music scene. "The stork of reason has delivered 
the brainchild of the Yale music scene," declared Austin 
Troy (PC '92), music junkie and bass guitarist. 

Be wary of such optimism, considering that it comes 
from a performer who has been known to toss radishes into 
the audience during renditions of songs with titles like 
Cooki~ in th~ Middi~. Not all of us share Troy's opinion that 
Yale's music world is "ready to renaissance." Avoiding the 
same old same old of cover bands and their endless rendi-
tions of "Freebird" will take more student support and a lit-
tle help from the Yale administration. 

Magnolia Rifles, a country music band, braved the 
storm of the last couple of years, when a plethora of 
promising bands fizzled into nothing. The group's concep-
tion was a simple matter of aesthetics. "I went up to (vocal-
ist) George Streeter (SY '94) at a literary magazine meeting, 
complimented him on his sideburns and asked if he liked 
Kris Kristofferson," explained mandolin player Dima 
Chapman (BR '94). That night they got together and 
learned "Night Moves," and after the first fateful jam ses-
sion, the two crooned and strummed their way to country 
band-dom. When guitarists Cole Wicker (TC '94) and 
Geoffrey Boyd (TC '94) joined, the Rifles evolved into two 
guys with acoustics, a mandolin player, and a man with a 
mike ready to emote about wine, women, butterbeans, or 
possibly the plight of the Yale University Dining Hall worker. The repertoire soon expanded to include covers of 
Neil Young and Jerry Jeff Walker, as well as the inevitable 
"Gambler" and the Dukes of Hazzard theme song. 

Trumbull's Boiler Room became the Magnolia Rifles' home 
turf with many a cowboy hat in sight. 

The Rifles don't get to play as often as they would like. 
Student employment schedules have made practice and gig 
time almost as hard to come by as a Yale rap or hip-hop act 
(but that's another kettle of fish). And money for equip-
ment rental is also a headache. Members hope that Sudler 
Fund money will soon pour in so that the Yale community 
will not be deprived of a show where fringed shirts and 
cowboy boots are the outfits of choice. 

The band Schwa is looking for moral as well as mone-
tary support. With guitarist Tim Power's (SM '94) riffs, 
10 THE NEw JouRNAL 
AI roidmud by th~ postu, Sltorn Flak~ fans ar~ tkvoud if not 
urribiy Jiurau. 
w~ h~ar Dan Quayk Jik~s than. 
Scott Foster's (SM '93) vocals, slapping bass by Marthane 
Sanders (SM '92), and solid accordion accompaniment 
from Joe Carroll (SM '92), the group offers up original 
songs with a distinctive sound. Even with the significant 
amount of recognition that Schwa enjoyed last year, the 
band sometimes met a tepid Yale reaction. "People still 
don't take bands seriously here," lamented Power. "Original 
music is just not that big a thing." Student apathy takes its 
toll, and when the band members outnumber the audience 
on occasion, potential new vitality sputters and dies. 

The pitiful dearth of performance space at Yale also 
reflects student unwillingness to boogie out of the 
weenie bins and into the groove of live concerts. 
Pierson College's B-11, which once hosted many a musical 
jam, fell victim to such indifference. Last year the college 
used it for storage instead of shows. Even when it was still 
an outlet for artistic expression, B-11 was too hot, in the 
wrong sense of the word. When BLA, Pierson's own basic 
rock cover band, played one of the last B-11 shows in 
January 1991, the oppressive heat drove audience members 
from the show before the end of the first set. 

Most Bulldog bands now fight over the Trumbull 
Boiler Room, the Silliman Dramatic Attic, and residential 
college common rooms when they want to perform for 
more than just their closest friends. Some turn to the frat 
SEPTEMBER 4· 1991 


parry scene: Red Herring, a variation of last year's Quick 
Brown Fox, appeared often at DKE last year. For less tra-
ditional bands, however, the parcy scene doesn't lend itself 
to performances. Members of Wrench, the Yale trio that 
was originally to be called Please Kill Yourself, complained 
that party audiences have short attention spans. 

Apparently after a few kegs, partiers need the familiarity 
of Rolling Stones covers to orient themselves. 

If it's hard to find a place to perform here, the search 
for a practice room taxes even the most resourceful. 
Warehouse, known for .its original songs, soulful singing, 
and funky bass, struck a deal with Berkeley Master Harry 
Stout to use the college's practice room, but only' if the 
band included two Berkeley natives. So Warehouse tai-
lored the band to include the correct number of 
Bcrkeleyites, and they got the space they needed. If only 
the life of a Yale musician was always so simple. 

Even the legitimate places to practice on campus leave 
much to be desired. Last year the Barnyard Blues Band 
tried to share practice space in Jonathan Edwards College 
with Monobrau, to the distress of all involved. "Trying to 
fit a drummer, two guitarists, a keyboard player, a singer, 
and a guy with a harmonica into that place ain't a piece of 
cake," moaned lead guitarist Thad Brown (SM '92). Since 
many practice rooms are far from sound-proof, Yale 
frowns on bands that dare to be non-a capella, or worse-
amplified. For now, bands can practice in Jonathan 
Edwards, but that privilege may not last forever. "I don't 
think the room is really soundproof-
it's just that no 
one's been complaining lately," said Master's assistant 
Barbara Goddard. 

Big Drummer on Campus Steve Platt (ES '93), who 
plays with Notes From the Underground, one of 
the better known Yale rock cover bands, has a dif-
ferent kind of complaint. "Drummers and bassists are 
pretty hard to find," he said. Since the number of musi-
cians on campus remains limited, Yale performers now 
collaborate with New Haven players to form bands like 
The Crossing and VMJ. Joint entertainment efforts that 
feature groups from Yale and New Haven, like the event 
in the Silliman Dramatic attic last year that featured the 
Gravel Pit, VMJ, and Drastic Yellow Plastic, herald a 
bright spot on the horizon for Yale's music scene. 

April's PARTAY (Pierson Alcoholics Responsibly 
Trashed All Year) concert depended on a town-gown 
meeting of musical minds. The Old Campus jam fea-
tured Yale bands Drastic Yellow Plastic, Schwa, and 
Magnolia Rifles, as well as New Haven's Blind Justice and 
Children of the Sun. PARTAY presented a wide array of 
music, from the limbo-inspiring African beats of 
Children of the Sun to the almost-heavy metal sound of 
Skorn Flakes. 

At last May's Earth Week benefit, a smash hit by all 
Schwa jams at last Mays Earth ~t'k Bm4Jt jam. 
accounts, Tim Power pleaded with audience mempers to 
support local music. With a bit more effort on the part 
of the student body, perhaps Yale could make up for 
what it lacks in sex and drugs by offering some rock and 
roll. 

181 
Vakrit' Burgha. a junior in Pit'rson Colkgt', is tht' photogra-
phy t'ditor oftht'TNJ. 
TH£ NEW JouRNAl. u 



**Title: Landlords Take A Loss**
**Author: Joel Tesoro**
**Page number(s): 12**

"They're called professional housewreckers," said 
Tanya, as she stood in front of the burnt-out 
shell of the apartment building at 71 County 
Street. "They think the landlord's rich, so they tear his 
apartment up. They punch holes in the wall, clog pipes 
with diapers and cigarette butts, bust the windows, and 
change the locks so that even he can't get in." Tanya moved 
to another building after tenants in one unit started a fire 
that gutted 71 County Street. "It's total disrespect," she 
added, shaking her head. 

New Haven's landlords face a crisis. Those who accept 
tenants on housing assistance and rent subsidies see growing 
numbers of people who neither maintain their apartments 
nor pay their rent. These landlords deal with a city adminis-
tration unsympathetic to their needs and an economic envi-
ronment that promises no return on their investment. Their 
dissatisfaction bodes ill for New Haven. Without the low-
income housing its landlords provide, the city will confront 
greater homelessness and a glut of empty buildings. 

New Haven has over 10,000 units of subsidized hous-
ing, one of the highest concentrations of low-income hous-
ing of any American city. Because of the shortage of public 
housing, the government offers subsidies to entice private 
landlords to house low-income tenants at reduced rents. 
"Landlords really work for the state," said Bruce Blair, direc-
tor of development for Christian Community Action, a 
New Haven group that provides emergency shelter and 
housing assistance for the homeless. "They handle clients 
on rent assistance whom the state cannot otherwise house, 
essentially managing properties for the state without super-
vision or support." 

A mix of full-paying and rent-subsidy tenants once 
allowed landlords to break even or turn a small profit. But, 
as the economy worsens, neighborhoods now contain more 
subsidized renters than ever before. As a result, landlords 
have lowered rents even further to accomodate the influx of 
welfare recipients. This in turn has driven away full-paying 
renters, and left many lessors dependent on subsidized rent. 

"You have all these landlords who thought they were 
going to make millions," said Frank Alvarado, director of 
New Haven's Office of Building Inspection and 
Enforcement, the branch of the city administration that 
ensures that buildings are up to code. "But when the real 
estate market fell through, they were stuck with all these 
properties they can neither sell nor maintain., 

The cost of owning property in New Haven has sky-
12 THE NI!W JouRNAL 
rocketed: in the past few years, property taxes have risen 
over 100 percent:' "Taxes have taken away all incentive to 
invest in New Haven," said Kevin Ski est, vice president of 
the Greater New Haven Property Owners Association. 

Because of the 1991 expansion of the sales tax, a landlord 
like James Rosenberry, head of Rosenberry Properties and 
one of the largest landlords in the city, must spend an extra 
$40,000 a year to cover the tax on services, like accounting, 
that he provides to his own partners. 

While taxes increase, New Haven property values have 
declined. The net worth of Rosenberry's 78 buildings, 
which contain over 420 apartments, plummeted from $20 
million to $6.8 million as the city's real estate market col-
lapsed. Rosenberry Properties lost an average of $50,000 to 
$60,000 a month in 1991. "I'm now fighting a rearguard," 
Rosenberry said. "Two years from now, I'll be bankrupt." 

'When the market fell through, 
landlords were left with all these 
properties they can neither sell nor 
maintain. " 

At the same time landlords struggle against a hostile 
economic environment, they must maintain disintegrating 
properties. Vandalism by violent or drug-addicted tenants 
has forced Rosenberry to double his spending for upkeep 
and repair in the past five years. "There are tenants out 
there whose lifestyle is destructive," Blair admitted. "How 
are you supposed to take care of buildings when the tenants 
themselves don't care?" 

When New Haven landlord Toni Criscollo visited 
one of her apartments to investigate reports of child 
beating by a tenant, she found rotting food on the 
kitchen counters. This summer Rosenberry evicted one 
tenant, Christina, who stopped paying her rent in order 
ro support her drug habit. Gunfights, broken windows, 
and violent domestic squabbles between Christina and 
her boyfriend made Rosenberry's other tenants nervous. 
Since her eviction, Christina has returned to emergency 
housing. 

Se.PTEMBEll -4. 1991 



**Landlords, Tenants, and the Future of New Haven Housing**
**Author: Tanya and Christina**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Landlords also express frustration about coUecting rent 
tenants to live in my places in the city, I can't compete with 
checks from their subsidized tenants. "Getting that $50 to 
brand-new condos in the suburbs," she said. To make mat-
$70 out of them each month is like pulling teeth," said 
ters worse, there are no more new Section Eight certificates 
Criscollo. "If you don't hustle over there by the third or the 
available in New Haven. Because of budget constraints, the 
fourth of the month, the money's gone. The real good ten-
current waiting list for the program is so long that prospec-
ants will call and tell me, 'Come and get it ,.---..;;.__ ________ __ 
before I spend it."' 

But most welfare recipients lack the 
money to cover food and living expenses, 
much less rent. "They get $314 a month," 
said Meir Lakein (JE '91), a community 
organizer who works for the Homeless 
Persons Organization Project. "Rent is 
$325. Where are they going to get the extra 
$11 ?" As for the charges of tenant neglect, 
Lakein countered that landlords often 
ignore basic building maintenance and 
show up only to collect rent. 

recent policy changes by the city and 
state regarding rent assistance have 
both landlords and community 
advocates worried about the future of subsi-
dized housing. A change in a legal require-
ment involving federal assistance has trig-
gered a flight of reliable low-income tenants 
out of New Haven. Under Section Eight 
federal housing subsidy regulations, tenants 
on rent assistance set aside one-third of their 
income for rent and utilitites. The govern-
ment then makes up the difference between 
the tenant's contribution and the "fair rent 
value." Before last year, the city's Section 
Eight recipients had to use their certificates 
in New Haven. In 1991 , however, the 
Department of Housing anc Urban 
Development began to permit tenants to 
use federal assistance anywhere in the state. 
Many low-income tenants fled the city Tmants starud a fir~ that gumd th~ building at 71 County Strut. 
for the suburbs, where they could continue 
paying their third and live in a safer, more peaceful environ-
ment. Because of the overconstruction of the '80s, a large 
number of suburban landlords saddled with unoccupied 
condominiums and apartments lowered their rents to cut 
their losses. Criscollo has found it more difficult now to 
attract responsible tenants. "When I'm advertising for new 


---

rive tenants must wait at least two years before the govern-
ment considers their application. 

A recent change in city welfare policy has further jeop-
ardized the stability of the housing situation in New Haven. 
Last June, the city welfare department stopped ~nding rent 
assistance checks directly to the landlords, leaving the 
responsibility of rent payments to the 
tenants. "We're out of the rent business 
entirely," declared Raymond Lopes, 
director of the Welfare Department. 
He cited the overload of paperwork as a 
main reason for the change in policy. 
Since the new welfare policy wem 
into effect, only six of Rosenberry's 42 
tenants who receive assistance from the 
city have paid their rent. "We're going 
to end up evicting the rest," Rosenberry 
said. Lopes himself admits that evic-
tions in New Haven have increased due 
to the new policy, but he also says that 
the new regulations affect only one-
fourth of the subsidized tenants in New 
Haven. 

A bleak future for New 
Haven housing: 
abandoned buildings 
and vagrancy. 
Landlords fault the city for its fail-
ure co adequately monitor tenants. 
When Criscollo called the Department 
of C hild and Youth Services to report 
her tenant for child abuse, the city did 
not act. "They don't even want to go to 
the apartment and see for themselves," 
she said. "One of these days those kids 
are going to turn up dead." 

Landlords complain that media 
coverage of exploitative landlords, like 
New Haven's Ali Antar, contributes to 
a general stereotype of urban landlords 
as slumlords. Listed under seven differ-
ent aliases, nearly half of Antar's 18 
properties failed to adhere to the hous-
ing code in 1990. While landlords con-
cede that slumlords exist, they argue 
that the majority of landlords in the 
city are honest. Instead, they emphasize 
their tenants' own destructiveness. 
"Antar may be bad news, but he's not 
the one who kicks out his windows or 
dumps his garbage in the backyard," 
said Rosenberry. 



Lakein, however, maintains that 
landlords unfairly blame their tenant's 
lifesryles for the state of their proper-
ties. H e suggested that landlords may 
harbor racist hostiliry towards the low-
income tenants they house. "When 
these landlords talk about poor people 
tearing things up, sometimes the sub-
text there i~ that they mean 'black peo-
ple,"' said Lakein. 

Although training programs might 
help low-income tenants take better 
care of their homes, the steadily 
increasing numbers on rent subsidies 
make such programs nearly impossible 
to administer. Blair and Rosenberry 
envision a bleak future for New Haven 
housing: abandoned buildings and 
vagrancy like the crisis in Detroit. 
Lakein, on the other hand, worries that 
the ciry will accede too readily to land-
lord demands. "We could do what the 
landlords want, which is to make sure 
that they get their rent money," he 
said. "In that case, we'd still have the 
landlords, but their properties and 
their tenants could go to hell for all 
they care." 

Lakein proposes a more tenant-
friendly approach. H e hopes to see the 
city become much stricter in enforcing 
laws that protect tenants from landlord 
mismanagement. And instead of a ten-
ant training program, he suggests a 
course in money management for 
recipients of housing assistance. "If you 
haven't had a lot of money in your life, 
of course you're not going to know 
how to spend it or co save it," he said. 

For now, landlords continue trying 
to make ends meet and hope they do 
not fall victim to foreclosure. "We just 
don't pay the banks," Rosenberry 
explained. "We pay the bills, and if a 
dollar is left, we send it to the banks," 
Roseberry said. "If $1 ,000 is left, we 
send it to the banks. The banks are not 
happy, but they haven't gotten to 
us yet." 
I8J 
jo~/ usoro, a junior in Jonathan 
Edwards Co//~g~, is associau ~ditor of 
TN]. 
Tanya and Christina a" ps~nymss. 



**Title: Musket and Mortarboards: A History of Yale-New Haven Relations**
**Author: Charlotte Brooks**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yalidfootba/L gam~s on th~ Grun kd to a fnu bloody battks with N~w Havm fir~m. 
Muskets and Mortarboards: 
A History ofYale-New Haven Relations 
Charlotte Brooks 
W
en Jonathan Einhorn challenged John Daniels 
n last year's mayoral race, he seemed to spend 
more time attadcing Yale's tax-free status than his 
opponent's shortcomings. While Einhorn lost the election, 
he followed a time-honored tradition of bashing Yale to 
gain voter support. Such rhetoric has always struck a nerve 
among New Haven voters. Still, considering that pitched 
battles and bloodshed once characterized town-gown dis-
putes, today's relationship between Yale and New Haven is 
a bed of roses. 

Unlike today's politicians, influential New Haven resi-
dents originally believed that a college would improve the 
economy, reputation, and culrurallife of their city. Many of 
16 THE NEW jOURNAL 
them strenuously lobbied the Colonial government to 
move the Collegiate School-which later became Yale--
from Saybrook to the Elm City in 1715. But the town-
gown honeymoon ended only two decades after the first 
wagonload of books arrived in New Haven. Angered by 
tax privileges that Connecticut's charter granted the 
College, citizen pamphleteers of the 17 40s accused school 
administrators of everything from mismanaging funds to 
instructing students in blasphemy. To make marrers worse, 
Yalies so often failed to pay their creditors at local business-
es that the college president and council rightly regulated 
students' private spending. 

Colonial-era quarrels between Yale men and "townies" 
S£J>TEMBER ... 1992. 
.. 


remained mere wars of words, and at times the two groups 
even cooperated. In 1779, students fought side by side with 
the people of New Haven in an unsuccessful attempt co 
save the city from an advancing British army. Yet divisions 
existed even in the heat of battle: Colonel Edmund 
Fanning (Yale 1757), commander of the invading King's 
American Regiment of Foot, spared his alma mater while 
directing his men to burn many of the surrounding build-
ings. Years later, townsmen grumbled when the grateful 
college a~arded the Canadian officer an honorary degree. 

Y
ale College grew in physical size after the Revolution, 
eventually pushing the town poorhouse, jail, and 
several taverns off the present-day Old Campus. As 
Anglicanism waned in America, New Haven citizens 
accused conservative Yale of religious bigotry and intoler-
ance. The college and the cown seemed doomed to remain 
spiritually irreconciled, and city planners even laid out the 
new Grove Street Cemetery with separate plots for "Yale 
students, People of Color, and Strangers." In addition, the 
involvement ofYalies in local politics provoked a great deal 
of anger. New Haven's newspapers waged a continual cam-
paign to either abolish the College's tax-exempt status or co 
ban students from holding office altogether. 

Eventually the milder quarrels of the Colonial era 
exploded into a pitched battle. "We have had Considerable 
Bustle here two Saturday Evenings past between the 
Students in College and the Town Boys," wrote New 
Haven businessman Erastus Osborn in May 1812. "Last 
Sunday Evening the number on each side was said co be 
nearly 400. They attacked with Clubs, Knives, etc. The 
Sheriff and his Deputies and the Constables interfered, 
Commanded the Peace, etc., but to no effect." Unlike later 
riots, the fuse violent town-gown confrontation resulted in 
only a few injuries and the arrest of some Yalies. 

Tension between students and "townies" grew after the 
1812 incident. The port's sailors and idle young men took 
pride in their ability to taunt Yalies, whose wealth and 
snobbishness irritated them. In turn, the students enjoyed 
annoying townsfolk with their tiresome pranks, and at 
times the srolen signs and gates of neighboring houses lay 
in chick piles around the College yard. And since Yalies and 
local boys often vied for the attentions of the same young 
women, town socials turned into potentially explosive 
affairs. 

The uneasy limbo of a dozen years finally gave way to 
violence after several Yale medical students stole a corpse 
from a West Haven graveyard. The body-snatching inci-
dent initiated a four-decade period of sporadic fighting 
between townspeople and students. By the lace 1820s, 
pitched battles had become a semi-institutionalized part of 
Yale. "Many years ago, there was a feud between students 
and townsmen: a sort of general ill-feeling which manifest-
ed itself in the lower classes of society in rudeness and 
insult," observed the snobbish hisrorian Ezekiel Porter 
City planners laid out Grove Street 
Cemetery with separate plots for 
"Yale Students, People of Color, and 
s. 
, 
trangers. 
Belden. "An organization in opposition followed, and a 
band of tipsy townsmen took the field, [were] repulsed , and 
a huge knotty club wrested from their leader." Until the 
faculty abolished the custom in the 1840s, Yale seniors 
proudly passed this "Bully Club" co an all-around leader in 
each class. 

As the century progressed, Yale students destroyed the 
town's fire engine, killed a young New Haven man, and kept 
the perpetratOrs' identities secret-all in the n:l.{Tle of Bully 
loyalty. In 1845, the New Haven Common Council autho-
rized the appointment of special watchmen to quell riots 
and suppress the problems arising from citizen-student 
strife. 

By mid-century, tempers had worn so thin chat at 
times Yalies only ventured outside of the College in large 
groups. Wary of potential problems, the administration 


refused to allow students to attend 
community functions. Ignoring the 
ban, about 70 Yalies attended a show 
at Homan's Theater one evening in 
1851. Word spread quicldy through 
downtown, and an angry mob num-
bering in the thousands confronted 
the students as they left Homan's. 
Sensing imminent danger, the police-
escorted Yalies quickly fled to the 
safety of the college's high walls. 
From his office, Police Captain 
Lyman Bissell recognized a sound he 
had not heard since the Mexican 
War: the rattle of a cannon being 
positioned for anack. "The rioters 
loaded the piece to the muzzle with 
cannon balls, grape-shot, stones, 
pieces of brick, etc., and drew it up 
before South College," recalled wit-
ness H enry Howe. "All was made 
ready, the gun duly pointed, and the 
match lighted." Fortunately for Yale, 
the quick-witted Bissell joined the 
crowd in time to sabotage its gun. 
The mob of disappointed townspeo-
ple dispersed after vowing to get even 
another day. 

en a similar altercation 
between students and fire-
men (without artillery) 
resulted in the death of a town volun-
teer in 1858, the angry townspeople 
almost rioted. But by 1863, the seri-
ous town-gown incidents which had 
plagued the Elm City since the 1820s 
came to an end. Years of civil wac had 
finally dulled the fighting spirit of the 
young men on both sides. 

Post-wac battle weariness and the 
advent of tension-releasing college 
athletics produced a sort of d~tente in 
town-gown relations. As the College 
grew into a university, Yale and New 
Haven leaders tried to repair their 
fractious relationship. In 1880 Yale 
donated 20 acres of land to enlarge the 
city's new East Rock Park, while New 
Haven's mayor appointed an official 
committee to participate in the 
University's 1901 bicentennial celebra-
tion. 

But many community members 
still felt that the University held itself 
aloof from the problems of the city. 
George Dudley Seymour, presidenc 
of Yale during the first decade of the 
20th century, attempted to sway citi-
zens with "Cicy Beautiful" and "Save 
the Elms" campaigns. He even con-
vinced College trustees to open the 
once-exclusive Peabody Museum,and 
Trumbull Art Gallery to the public 
on Sunday afternoons. 

T
own-gown relations peaked 
during World War I, as both 
communities pulled together 
to ensure victory. "On the home 
front the war effort was distinguished 
by a remarkable cooperation between 
the cicy and the University," wrote his-
torian Rollin Osterweis. "The 1 02nd 
Regiment was organized and rrained 
at the Yale Bowl; the great dining hall 
became the workroom of the New 
Haven chapter of the American Red 
Cross; Woolsey Hall was the scene of a 
succession of meetings and concerts 
designed to keep the general morale at 
a high pitch. For its part, the city 
invited the Yale military units to use 
the Green for drilling and the docks 
for naval training." 

But to New Haven residents, the 
opening of a few facilities during 
wartime did not change the fact that 
Yale still symbolized elitism, wealth, 
and privilege. During a May 1919 vic-
tory parade in the Downtown area, 
D~spiu town-gown .friction, Yak Commmcnnmts still took piau on th~ Gr~m. 
SEPTEMBER 4 , 199:1. 



**Title: Yale and New Haven: A Century of Town-Gown Relations**
**Author: Charlotte Brooks**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
members of the 1 02nd Regiment and 
students, including many war veterans, exchanged insults. "At one o'clock 
a.m. the next morning about 400 soldiers and sailors went to the campus 
and invited the students out. Nothing 
but deep silence on the students' part 
prevailed,'! reported the New Haven 
Union. "The soldiers formed a skirmish 
line and charged ... Then came a 
shower of books, shoes, bottles, and 
bricks from the students., The fight 
broke up only after police arrived. 
The 1919 affair was the last of the 
Yale-New Haven riots, but it also 
marked the end of two decades of 
remarkably cordial relations between 
the city and the college. By the early 
1920s, the town-gown honeymoon 
had fizzled. And while New Haven 
slid into the Great Depression, Yale 
began building its ostentatious Gothic 
towers, symbolizing the ever-widening 
gulf between city and ivory tower. 


"There are only a few Yale men so 
besotted that they see much beauty in 
the location of our college buildings," 
lamented Robert Dudley French '1 0 in 
1929. "There is probably not one of us 
who does not think with some regret 
what Yale might have been, if foreseeing 
wisdom had been given to the 
directors of our destiny., 


But the lack of such "wisdom" has 
not prevented Yale and New Haven 
from maturing together throughout a 
century in which both have experienced 
fundamental changes. In the 
1960s, New Haven's Great Society 
programs and the emergence of a more 
socially-conscious and diverse university 
created two communities with 
shared interests and aspirations. 
President Kingman Brewster's decision 
to open Yale's facilities to the 
protesting public during the May Day 
Black Panther trials of 1970 indicated 
a new attitude toward the Elm City. 
And despite Jonathan Einhorn's recent 
election rhetoric, graduate students, 
bursary students, and community 
members of Locals 34 and 35 cooperated 
in the 1992 winter strike against 
Yale itself. While the university 
administration may find such behavior 
irritating, the recent coalition 
shows that the people of Yale and 
New Haven may have finally buried 
the hatchet. 


**Title: Benno Schmidt's Troubled Tenure**
**Author: Erik Meers**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

Many professors, students, and alums could scarcely 
contain their glee at the news that Benno 
Schmidt, Yale's 20th president, planned to resign. 
His abrupt decision last May came after a year of unprecedented 
turmoil and dissatisfaction with his leadership. 
Although Schmidt accepted Yale's presidency as a rising 
national star and has since enjoyed significant successes, he 
leaves the university with his stature diminished. Schmidt's 
early accomplishments in life provided him with a sterling 
resume but did not train him in the nuances of consensus-
building required to lead a university. 


A history of Schmidt's early years reads like a caricature 
of Old Blue privilege. His father, Benno Sr., earned a for-
tune as a founding partner in America's first venture capital 
firm, the J.H. Whitney Company. As a child, Benno Jr. 
attended an exclusive boy's grammar school in Manhattan 
and went on to Phillips Exeter Academy. Schmidt entered 
Yale as an undergraduate in 1959. In 
those days Schmidt was, by his own 
admission, more interested in 
hockey than history, his undergraduate 
major. 


Yet Schmidt blossomed academically at Yale Law 
School, and quickly rose to the top of his class. When he 
graduated in 1966 he won a law student's fantasy job-a 
clerkship with Earl Warren, then Chief Justice of the 
Supreme Court. After his stint in Warren's office, Schmidt 
joined the faculty of Columbia Law School, where he 
became a full professor in just four years. 


In the intellectual community, Schmidt's reputation 
flourished with the publication of his book Freedom of the 
Press vs. Public Access, still considered one of the most 
important works on the rights of the media. He gained 
national prominence as moderator of the PBS series The 
Constitution: That Delicate Balance. After law school 
and faculty alike mourned the loss of their native son: 
Giamatti had attended Yale graduate school and served as a 
professor of Renaissance literature before becoming 
President in 1979. His experience as student and teacher 
gave him an understanding of both constituencies. 


When the search committee charged with replacing 
Giamatti began to screen applicants, Schmidt, with his 
resume, rose to the top of the list. He 
faculty selected Schmidt as dean in 1984, he 
worked tirelessly at fundraising, collecting 
a school record $9 million in just two years. 


The meteoric rise of a Yale alumnus did not escape the 
notice of the Yale Corporation. When A. Bartlett 
Giamatti announced his resignation as University 
President in 1986, Corporation members had Schmidt's 
name on the tip of their collective tongue. Still, filling 
Giamatti's shoes promised to be a difficult task. Students 


Although he had aggressively pursued the job, Schmidt


To further complicate matters, Schmidt's third wife, 
Helen Whitney, felt even more reluctant than her husband 
to leave New York, where she had a career as a documentary 
filmmaker. To help persuade Schmidt, the Corporation 
agreed that he could spend a substantial amount of time 
with his wife in New York. With this assurance in hand, 
Schmidt accepted the job, to the relief of the Corporation 
and the praise of the media. Time magazine hailed 
Schmidt's selection with the headline "Blue-Chip Choice." 


In his September 1986 inaugural address, Schmidt 
ardently championed the need to protect freedom of 
expression. As he delivered his speech, 500 students outside 
Woolsey Hall took the new President at his word and 
boisterously protested Yale's policy of partial investment in 
South Africa. 


In his '86 address, Schmidt foreshadowed 
the media backlash against "political correctness" by several 
years. He argued 
against the adoption of university 
statutes banning hate speech-words 
like "nigger" and "fag." "People are saying that victimized 
groups require protection against such statements," 
Schmidt said. "[This creates] a new egalitarian threat 
against freedom of expression." 


Free speech issues would 
dog Schmidt throughout his six-
year tenure. Students constructed 
mock shanties outside the President's 
office at Woodbridge Hall to protest Yale's invest-
ments in South Africa. In the face of strong alumni disap-
proval, Schmidt maintained the right of students to protest. 
When an angry alumnus torched the shanties, Schmidt 
condemned the action and allowed students to build a new 
monument. 


Schmidt drew a distinction between free speech and 
obstruction, however, when he ordered the arrest of 21 anti-
apartheid protestors occupying Yale's investment office. 
Schmidt declared at the time: "No university can tolerate 
the disruption of its functions." His patience eventually 
paid off: students' interest in South Africa waned, and the 
monument ceased to be an issue. A group of students quietly 
disassembled the structure in 1991. 


Schmidt's reputation for balance and sensitivity on 
complex issues of free speech contrasted markedly with the 
high-handedness he showed during a crisis at the School of



**Title: Organization and Management (SOM)**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When several tenured professors at SOM threatened to resign over philosophical differences about the curriculum, Schmidt responded by appointing a new dean, Michael Levine, whom he charged with changing the school's emphasis on non-profit management to a more traditional, corporate-oriented curriculum. 

Schmidt granted the new dean unlimited power to hire and fire non-tenured faculty, and Levine summarily axed two of the school's major departments. Schmidt's authoritarian tactics shocked many faculty members and students, regardless of how they felt about the changes. Because SOM was founded in the late '70s, disgruntled alumni lacked the numbers to take the protest further. 

Schmidt stirred further controversy when, on budgetary grounds, he shut down the *Yale Review*, one of the oldest and most highly regarded literary journals in the country. As in the battle at SOM, many felt that Schmidt was allowing business concerns to supersede the scholarly mission of the university. But unlike SOM, the *Review* had a powerful constituency-the literati, headed by author George Plimpton. The group pressured Schmidt relentlessly and eventually forced him to reverse his decision.


**Title: Yale-New Haven Agreement and Fundraising**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

In contrast to the flak Schmidt took for his actions at SOM and the *Yale Review*, he received high praise in the Yale community for his dealings with New Haven's government. The signing of the Yale-New Haven agreement ranks foremost among his accomplishments. Under the agreement, Schmidt pledged that for the first time in its 291 year history, Yale would make payments to the city government in lieu of taxes. Other major universities had made such concessions to local governments long before. Princeton gives $2 million annually to the municipal government, while Stanford pays nearly $5 million for fire protection alone. 

The deal almost collapsed when conservatives on the Board of Aldermen challenged the section of the agreement that gave Yale the right to close four blocks of High and Wall Streets to traffic in exchange for $1.1 million. But with concessions on all sides, the Board finally accepted Schmidt's package. "I think that he was more successful in improving Yale's relationship with the New Haven community than any of the three presidents who came before him," said Joseph LaPalombara, a political science professor. 

As a fund raiser, Schmidt also beat out his predecessors. The numbers speak for themselves: $150 million raised last year alone as the nucleus for the upcoming capital campaign, a record yearly take for the university. Like Giamatti, Schmidt improved alumni donations totals every year he held office. 

Yale Presidents have been preoccupied with the endowment ever since its real value collapsed after the failure of several risky investment during Kingman Brewster's administration. Additionally, Brewster left Giamatti and Schmidt a decaying physical plant that would cost an estimated $1.2 billion to repair-Giamatti had once joked to *The New York Times* that his presidency would be remembered only for the "Giamatti Memorial Wiring System." To help offset the mounting costs of renovations, Schmidt began to travel extensively for a new capital campaign, the largest ever conducted by an American university. "The private part of a capital campaign-securing a nucleus fund-requires the presence of the president," said Charles Pagnam, director of major gifts. 

But while Schmidt crisscrossed the globe as Yale's chief fund raiser, the taunt "Where's Benno?" grew more audible in New Haven. And Schmidt's low popularity benefitted little from the money pouring into the endowment, since most of the new funds had to pay for mundane items such as roof repairs and bathroom renovations. 

Schmidt undermined his success at raising large amounts of money by alienating large numbers of active Yale alumni. His unpopularity stemmed from his emphasis on gaining large, high-profile donations like the $60 million given by the Bass family last year. Off the record, many attribute Schmidt's triumphs in this area to his patrician upbringing: the Basses and the Whitneys were on Schmidt's Rolodex long before he became Yale's president. "I know, through officers in the university, that Schmidt saw no reason to be bothered by any dealings with alumni except for the true plutocrats," said William Henry III (BK '71), a theater critic for *Time* magazine. "If you weren't talking about someone who could write at least a seven if not an eight figure check, he just didn't see any reason. That could be handled by underlings in the Development Office." 

Schmidt's aloof personal manner offended many alumni audiences ... He was essentially unwilling to mingle... said Henry. "Among alumni he was notorious for not being there even when he was there. He didn't take questions, he wouldn't engage in small talk, and he really didn't listen to anybody." 

The speeches that Schmidt gave to Yale alumni meetings were widely derided by audiences as boring and ineffective. Andrea Dorfman (PC '84) recalls hearing Schmidt at the Yale Club in New York: "I have to say I thought Benno Schmidt was one of the worst speakers I have ever heard. I found him dull. I found that he didn't really have an understanding of the workings of a university."


**Title: Schmidt's Last Year and Fiscal Crisis**
**Page number(s): 24**

In his last year as president, Schmidt managed to alienate many students, university employees, and professors as well. After a series of annual budget deficits culminated in a projected $15 million shortfall for 1992, Schmidt declared that the university was in fiscal crisis. At the same time, Yale was negotiating a new contract with the University's dining hall and custodial employees. Schmidt's administration claimed that the budget crisis made new concessions impossible. The unions joined forces with a group of graduate students to push for recognition of the Graduate Employee and Student Organization (GESO). When negotiations stalled, GESO and Locals 34 and 35 staged a three-day strike. 

While labor troubles brewed, Schmidt, Yale College Dean Donald Kagan, and Provost Frank Turner interpreted the recurring debt as an indication that the university needed to concentrate its resources in fewer areas. Schmidt appointed a committee of professors to devise a plan to restructure the university's academic departments and slash the budget by 15 percent. "In my 28 years at Yale I had never known anything comparable to the degree of malaise this procedure created," said LaPalombara. "The process was simply mishandled. There was absolutely no finesse." 

When the committee finally recommended an across-the-board cut in faculty positions, as it axed two departments and emasculated several others, the faculty went into full revolt. Professors formed their own committee to evaluate the conclusions of the restructuring report, calling on Howard Lamar, the highly-respected former Dean of Yale College, to head the group. Lamar's review committee eventually found that the magnitude of the "budget crisis" had been exaggerated. The review committee offered several alternative plans to the one proposed by Schmidt's restructuring committee.


**Title: Lamar Rides Again**
**Author: Kathy Reich**
**Page number(s): 27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When Howard Lamar, a history professor and former dean of Yale College, appeared at a press conference to announce his appointment as interim president of Yale University, hundreds of people gave him a standing ovation. And another, and another, and another. "He wasn't prepared for the powerful reception he received," said history professor Cynthia Russett, who attended the June 17 announcement. "He was really overwhelmed." 

To date, Lamar's appointment has generated almost universal jubilation on campus. After a year of budget battles, stormy resignations, and growing bitterness among faculty and students (see related story page 20), many have heralded the history professor's appointment as the first step toward restoring Yale's tarnished reputation. "The mood on campus changed overnight," said Associate Provost Lloyd Suttle, whom Lamar tapped to serve as Advisor to the President. 

Suttle and others caution against expecting miracles from Lamar's administration, which will last for about a year while the Yale Corporation chooses Benno Schmidt's permanent successor. Still, Lamar himself hopes that substantive and positive change will occur during his year at the helm. "My own goal will be to turn over my office to a successor with the condition that things are almost back to normal," he said. 

The Corporation's selection committee chose Lamar for the presidency after a short but intensive search process that began immediately after Schmidt resigned on May 26. The committee contacted over 150 people, in addition to numerous students and faculty, and considered about a dozen candidates for the job. From the beginning Lamar was high on everyone's list. As a popular professor and a former dean, he could boast both administrative experience and warm relations with faculty, students and alumni. "Not a single person had a negative comment about him," said Senator David L. Boren (CC '63), a Democrat from Oklahoma and a Corporation member who served on the search committee. At a private two-day retreat, the Corporation voted unanimously to offer him the post. 

At first, however, Lamar turned them down. Having just retired from a 40-year teaching career, he had several research projects in the works, and wanted to travel. "Between his other commitments and the suddenness of it all, he was not at a stage in his career where he was looking for another administrative challenge," Suttle said. 

But the Corporation would not take no for an answer, and others urged Lamar to reconsider. "I felt tremendous pressure, not just from the Corporation committee, but from my colleagues in the history department and across the university," Lamar recalled. "I finally accepted the job because I love this place. It's given me a chance to do work that I love in a field that I love, and it's been supportive of my research and teaching and of the well-being of my family. I was very happy to perform this last act of service." 

The Corporation was also happy-so happy that when Lamar called to accept the job, they serenaded him with a rendition of "Bright College Years." "It was not concert quality, but it was heartfelt," said Boren. "Lamar's selection sent a strong message of respect for the faculty and communicated how strongly we wanted Yale to be one family." 

"My own goal will be to turn over my office to a successor with the condition that things are almost back to normal."

Since Lamar took office on July 1, he has striven to set himself apart from Benno Schmidt in almost every way-although he is careful not to criticize his predecessor. "Schmidt didn't articulate an educational vision, but he articulated a wish for Yale to continue to be a first-rate university," Lamar said. "He was very hard at work at his fiscal vision, and it's an important one." 

Lamar's vision for Yale includes financial solvency; he will continue the $1.5 billion fundraising campaign that Schmidt launched. But he will refrain from the frequent fundraising junkets that marked Schmidt's administration. "I will go on the road periodically, but not as much as Schmidt did," Lamar said. "I couldn't be visible around here and also travel a lot." 

"Visible" and "accessible" have become the new catchwords at Woodbridge Hall. Unlike Schmidt, who split his time between New York and New Haven, Lamar actually lives in the Elm City. He plans to open up the administration's decision-making process by welcoming input from all


**A New Era at Yale**
**Author: Kathy Rich**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When Howard Lamar called to accept the job, the Corporation serenaded him with "Bright College Years."  For improving student relations, Lamar plans to eat meals in the colleges at least once a week, and will meet both formally and informally with student groups. "It's going to be nice to have a president who eats more meals in a college than he does at Mory's," said Suttle.


The new deans of the graduate and undergraduate schools have also adopted Lamar's accessible stance. Both Yale College Acting Dean Donald Engleman and Graduate School Dean Richard Levin claim that they will consider student concerns when making their decisions. Indeed, everyone on Lamar's administrative team has adopted a tone of approachability and consensus. "I certainly hope we have a year where we begin to work together to solve our problems, instead of having acrimonious debates," Engleman said. "We all have a common concern-the well-being of one of the world's great educational institutions."


Despite the optimism and the budding sense of community on campus, Yale's problems linger. Faced with a $15 million deficit, the university has no choice but to tighten its budget-and this may lead to deep cuts in academics, even to the elimination of some departments. "Everybody now realizes that we do need to cut back," Lamar said. But he does not want academics to bear the brunt of the budget difficulties. His administration is closely examining non-academic university operations, such as physical plant and renovation plans, for possible cuts. In the academic arena, Lamar may endorse some cuts in every department rather than major slashes in a few.


Surde points out that the budget mess will take years to resolve, and Lamar cautions that the $1.5 billion fundraising drive-which has raised $600 million to date--is not a panacea for Yale's fiscal woes. "So much of the money that Schmidt raised is in the form of pledges, wills, and gifts of material objects," Lamar said. "So when someone says, 'You've already raised $600 million,' it doesn't really mean that. We do have to cut back in places. We do have to watch our pennies."


Lamar will also need to improve Yale's image in the local and national press-an image that took quite a beating last year when the Wall Street Journal bemoaned the decline of Old Yale and The New York Times Magazine took aim at the university in a cover story. "Certain issues simply ballooned way beyond our expectations, and Yale was not prepared for this reaction," said Lamar. "We probably still have an elitist image in this country, and seeing the elite brought down is fun."


The new president is anxious to dispel this elitist image, in part by forging stronger ties between the university and New Haven. He served a term on the Board of Aldermen in the '50s, and repeatedly expresses his affection for the city. While Lamar credits Schmidt with improving the town-gown relationship, he believes that much remains to be done. He has already met with New Haven Mayor John Daniels, and claims that an announcement by the Corporation in September will lay the groundwork for a closer relationship with the city.


Like any new president, Lamar may encounter some rough spots in his administration as people adjust to the new order. To complicate matters, Engleman, Levin, and Provost Judith Rodin have all just assumed their posts, and Lamar and Engleman are temporary. "There's bound to be some confusion," said Kate Baicker (BK '93), Yale College Council President. "Building a relationship takes time."


But Levin points out that all members of Lamar's new team have served together in the past on university committees. "The idea that somehow this is a team that by virtue of being new, is in danger of making mistakes, is not valid at all," Engleman claimed. "We all have extensive administrative experience. Judy Rodin, Rick Levin and myself were on the restructuring committee, and we spent the better part of two years looking at every department in the university."


Lamar himself possesses more successful administrative experience than just about any of his colleagues. Faculty members still fondly recall 1979 to 1985, when Lamar served as Dean of Yale College. "It's extremely rare for someone to emerge from the deanship and not have a single enemy in the place," Russett said. Under Lamar's leadership, Yale College standardized its tenure procedures, revamped the student disciplinary committee, and developed the Women's Studies and Studies in the Environment programs. Lamar lists the latter two programs as his greatest accomplishments while dean. "'d like to see a university that explores new ideas, that thinks the unthinkable, that anticipates what the major issues will be not just for the university, but for society as a whole," he said.


Though Engleman jokes that many faculty wished Lamar could have stayed dean forever, by 1985 Lamar wanted to return to his first loves, teaching and research. He came to Yale in 1945 as a graduate student, and except for a few fellowships, he has never left. For decades Lamar taught History of the American West, leaving his mark on the field through his writing and by guiding dozens of graduate students who went on to reinterpret the mythology of the West. "Lamar is sort of the father of a lot of important Western historians," said Bryce Nelson, a scholar of the American West at the University of Southern California. "He taught them to look at the non-idyllic side of Western history. And besides being such a great figure, he's regarded as gracious, warm and benevolent. He's out to help other people, not just himself, and that's not always common in academia."


Lamar's good nature may be severely tested in the coming year, as constituencies compete for his attention and the university's budget woes continue. But for now he seems perfectly content in Woodbridge Hall, and the Corporation is in no hurry to replace him. "Having a person of Howard Lamar's ability serve as acting president means that there is no reason to rush into making a permanent selection until we have found the right person," said Boren. "The choice of the next permanent Yale president is a critical one that will in many ways determine Yale's place in the next century."


As the Corporation ponders the future, Lamar relishes the present. "He's in incredibly good spirits," said Suttle of his old friend. "This is his last contribution to a community he has been such a vital part of since 1945. He's dedicated his life to the Yale and New Haven communities. He just cares so much for the place." At least at this stage of his presidency, the feeling is mutual. Kathy Rich, a senior in Pierson College, is editor-in-chief of TNJ.


**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New journal is the biggest and arguably (we have to say that to be modest) the best 
publication on campus. Two years ago the Columbia Scholastic Press Association ranked TN] 
among the top nine college magazines in America. Rolling Stone gave us the big-thumbs up, 
too. Last year, TN] writers won the two highest journalism prizes awarded at Yale. If you want 
to work in an environment where talent is appreciated and nurtured, TN] is for you. Maybe 
someday you'll follow in the footsteps of staff members like these: Jack Fuller, now editor of 
the Chicago Tribune; Anne Applebaum, now Warsaw bureau chief for the London Independant 
and the Economist magazine; and Stephen Weisman, now Tokyo bureau chief of the New York 
Times. In the mean time, you'll have a blast. 

COME TO THE ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING: 
DATE: Next Tuesday, September 8, 1992 
TIME: 8p.m. 
MANNER: off the wall and flamboyant 
PLACE: Berkelr. College Common Room 
Questions? Call Kathy at 6-1487 for all the answers.


**Title: Women's Clinics in Crisis**
**Author: Sonya Joo**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

he "Gag Rule" has forced 
Planned Parenthood· of 
Connecticut (PPC) to reex-
amine its values. The 1987 federal 
regulation, upheld by the Supreme 
Court in 199 1; prevents govern-
ment-funded health care profes-
sionals from discussing abortion 
with clients-an integral part of 
PPC's self-defined mission. The 
organization, which runs 20 clinics 
and treats 54,000 women each year, 
stands to lose $500,000 annually in 
federal funds. Yet despite the reces-
sion that has crippled the health 
care industry, PPC officials have 
decided to defY the government and 
remain true to the organization's 
pro-choice principles. 

The disputed funds fall under 
the Family Planning Services and 
Population Research Act or Title X 
of the Public Health Service Act 
(1970), which subsidizes treatment 
for ~omen who can pay little or 
nothing for care. "Women who 
seek medical care at Title X clinics 
are women who, without subsidies, 
may do without care-and surely 
without birth control-if there is 
no food on the table at home," said 
Patricia Baker, executive director of 
PPC. Since PPC offers abortion 
counseling and procedures, it is 
now ineligible for Title X funds. 

Although a last-minute modifi-
cation of the Title X "Gag Rule" 
provision allows physicians to offer 
limited advice on abortion, Baker 
fears that the new law will still have 
disastrous consequences for low-
income women. "We will see a two-
tiered system of health care infor-
mation in this country--one where 
pregnant women with the financial 
resources will continue to be fully 
32. THE N£w JouRNAL 
informed of all available alternatives 
while those who cannot afford private 
physicians will suffer," she said. 

Women's health organizations 
must fight the Bush Administration 
and the religious 
right 
for 
every 
Federal, state, and 
local 
dollar. 
According to a New 
Haven 
Advocate 
investigation, the 
major women's clin-
ics in New Haven-
Women's 
Health 
Services 
(WHS) 
and PPC-receive 
less in federal subsi-
dies than neighbor-
hood clinics that 
provide 
general 
care, although they 
treat comparable 
numbers of low-
income patients. 

Government grants 
constitute 64 per-
cent of Hill Health 
Center 
revenue, 
while public dollars 
comprise only 21 
percent of PPC and 
eight percent of 
WHS 
budgets. 

Between 1980 and 
1990, allotments in 
the federal budget 
for Title X plunged 
by two-thirds, from 
$153 million to $51 
million. 

And 
because PPC and 
Hartford Hospital 
will not comply 
stands to lose half of the $1.2 million 
in Title X funds annually allocated to 
the state. 

Jeanette Huettner, director of 
communications and development for 
with 
the 
"Gag Though pigeonholed as an abortion clinic, Planned 
Rule," Connecticut Parenthood coven ail aspeccts of women's health care. 
SEPTEMBER 4· 1992 


WH$, attributes the lack of federal 
supporr to the misperception that 
women's clinics primarily perform 
abortions. In reality, clinics like WHS 
and PPC offer a comprehensive repro-
ductive health program, including 
contraceptive counseling and meth-
ods, pregnancy testing, sexually- trans-
mitted disease testing, breast exams, 
annual pelvic exams, and Pap smears. 

Although Connecticut, like most 
states, lacks the resources to replace 
lost federal dollars, state legislators 
have tried to pick up some of the slack. 
In 1991 the state legislature approved 
half of the $500,000 that Governor 
Lowell Weicker originally proposed for 
family planning and also passed a law 
that codified a woman's right to priva-
cy. Furthermore, nearly all members of 
the Connecticut congressional aelega-
tion 
h~tve endorsed the federal 
Freedom of Choice Act, which would 
legalize the right to abortion. 

To replace the rest of the Title X 
money, PPC and WHS have tried to 
tap the private resources of individu-
als, foundations, and corporations. 
"We've received a good response to our 
fundraising campaign and will make 
ends meet this year," said Ilene Shub, a 
PPC spokesperson. "But now we need 
to worry about the following year and 
the year after that. It's a continual 
effort." Administrators will only con-
sider raising medical fees as a last 
resort. 

T
he rising cost of medication 
and supplies poses a further 
financial dilemma for PPC 
and WHS. Federal legislation that 
requires pharmaceutical companies to 
give rebates to state Medicaid pro-
grams forced these companies to cut 
back discounts traditionally granted 
to subsidized health care providers. 
Consequently, birth control prices 
have skyrocketed. From 1990 to 
1991, the average cost of birth control 
pills rose by 35 percent-from $16.99 
to $22.95 for a one-month supply. 

New legislation also requires certifica-
tion of lab technicians who read Pap 
smears. As a result, the cost of these 
cervical cancer tests has quadrupled, 
from $3 to $12. 

P
atient fees constitute the back-
bone of PPC and WHS bud-
gets, but the recession has driv-
en more and more low-income 
patients to these clinics. Five years 
ago WHS treated about one-third 
full-paying, one-third Medicaid, and 
one-third sliding fee patients, but 
today the clinic sees fewer full-paying 
women than ever and 40 percent of its 
patients are on Medicaid. "Women 
come here who live in extreme pover-
ty and in situations of real terror," said 
Bonnie Rapkin, a clinic social worker 
who is a therapist and abortion coun-
selor at WHS. "They spend their days 
below windows to avoid random gun-
fire and occasionally venture outside 
with their infant child to get to the 
bus stop." 

Although clinics like WHS focus 
on serving low-income patients, many 
women who can afford private care 
also patronize them. "We have always 
had a group of women who could 
afford care elsewhere," said Rapkin. "I 
see many college students, women 
from the surrounding suburbs, and 
powerful women from the corporate 
world. They come here because we 
provide a more woman-oriented envi-
ronment where they are treated as 
people rather than as bodies rolling 
through." 

As PPC and WHS attract more 
women, the clinics are developing ser-
vices in areas other than gynecology. 
"Many women feel comfortable with 
the health care professionals and coun-
selors at the clinic, so they come here 
first with their health problems," said 
Ada Spann, site manager of PPC's 
Griswold-Buxton clinic in New 
Haven. "We try to make health care as 
accessible as possible and adapt to our 
patients' needs." WHS offers body 
image and eating disorder therapy 
along with psychotherapy. Certain 
PPC clinics offer screenings for dia-
betes, sickle-cell anemia, high blood 
pressure, and high cholesterol. 

By broadening their original mis-
sion, PPC and WHS hope to change 
their public image and possibly win 
back federal funding. Spann predicts 
that PPC will expand women's health 
services beyond gynecology and per-
haps embrace a more general health-
care role for all family members. A 
long-range planning committee at 
WHS is currently considering a move 
into primary health care for women. 

In light of the new interest in women's 
health research, Huettner also believes 
that the clinics could grow by serving 
as a site for Yale research sponsored by 
government grants. 

Although funding may be shaky, 
administrators see expansion as. a vital 
necessity. "Women teU me about trying 
to get health care in a private setting 
where they sense an uncaring and inat-
tentive attitude," Rapkin said. "I think 
it's clear what women want. We a.s a 
society should be able to do better." .. 
Sonya Joo, a sophomor~ in Silliman 
Co/kg~. is on th~ staffofTNJ. 



**Title: And Justice For All**
**Author: David Gerber**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
D
uring a 1989 conference on 
the transition to democracy in 
Argentina, the Yale Law 
School's Orville H. Schell Jr. Center 
for International Human Rights 
expanded the traditional definition of 
human rights by including the coun-
try's economic situation in its discus-
sions. The issue: Can there be protec-
tion for human rights when the econo-
my is experiencing 1,000 percent 
inflation and people are breaking into 
supermarkets just to get enough food 
to survive? The question seemed 
worlds away from the standard con-
cerns that most numan rights groups 
address-political persecution and 
imprisonment. Yet in the context of 
the Schell Center's conference on 
Argentina, economic well-being 
proved as crucial a right as free speech. 

Schell Center founders Drew 
Days III and George Andreopoulos, 
both Yale Law School professors, seek 
to ensure that "second generation" 
human rights, such as the right to eco-
nomic survival, are not forgotten in 
the quest for an international human 
rights standard. "If you want to under-
stand human rights in a more compre- · 
hensive way, talk about the quality of 
life of the individual, not just whether 
the individual can be left free from 
persecution, arbitrary arrest, and tor-
ture," said Andreopoulos. 

To address such issues, the Schell 
Center has adopted an interdisci-
plinary approach to the study of 
human rights. Center activities 
include conferences like the one on 
Argentina, student and faculty 
research, and publications. "Protection 
for individual rights and what we call 
human right$ can't really exist in a vac-
uum," said Days. "There has to be 
some sense of what the cultural con-
ScheU Cmter co-fourukr Drew Days hopes to expand the current tkfinition of human rights. 
text is, what historical problems exist, 
34 TH£ NEW jOURNAL 
SEPTEMBER 4· 1992 


what economic conditions are." 

Establis·hing this context has 
required close work with experrs out-
side the Law School-a unique prac-
tice among university-based, research-
oriented human rights centers. The 
Schell Center's advisory committee, 
which approves all major projects, 
draws its members not just from the 
Law School, but from the history and 
political science departments, the 
Divinity School, the Medical School, 
the 
School 
of 
Forestry 
and 
Environmental Studies, and the 
School of Epidemiology and Public 
Health. This year's upcoming confer-
ence on che transition to democracy in 
the Phi!ippines boasts a roster of over 
20 speakers, including historians, con-
stitutional theorists, military experts, 
political scientists, and economists. 

Days and Andreopoulos gave 
though~ao the potential for publica-
tion when they chose the Philippines 
as their topic. "UsuaJiy we don't get 
involved in a big project unless we 
have a pretty good feeling that it may 
result in 
a 
publication," said 
Andreopoulos. "Our first considera-
tion is, 'What are the chances we have 
something new to say?"' T he center's 
advisory committee believed that chis 
year's election in the Philippines pro-
vided such new material. The Middle 
East's recent turn in the media spot-
light has earned Islam consideration as 
the topic of the Schell Center's second 
major conference this year. 

The Schell Center sponsors ongo-
ing, original research as well as events 
at Yale. To spark an interest in human 
rights among graduate students, the 
Center provides financial support for 
human rights-oriented research each 
summer. Recent projects have includ-
ed studies of violence against women 
in South Africa and the economic 
SEPTEMBER 4· 1992. 
plight of Palestinians in Israel's occu-
pied territories. The latter resulted in 
the Schell Center's first book, 
P/owshar~s and Swords: Th~ Economic 
Occupation in th~ Wt-st Bank. The cen-
ter also sponsors scholars from other 
institutions who wish to research 
human rights at Yale. 

T
he Schell Center's rapid rise to 
prominence since its founding 
in 1989 has surpassed even the 
expectations of its directors. Its roots 
lie with Orville Schell, a New York 
City attorney who worked for the 
human rights organizations Helsinki 
Watch and Americas Watch. After 
Schell's death in 1987, a group of his 
friends and associates established the 
center in his memory. Days, an 
Assistant Attorney General for Civil 
Rights during the Caner administra-
tion, agreed to direct the center. 
Andreopoulos, who came aboard as 
associate director, brought personal 
experience to his post. As a child, he 
lived through a seven-year military dic-
tatorship in Greece that practiced 
widespread torture and persecution. 
Andreopoulos moved to the United 
States in 1973, where he joined the 
Committee 
for 
Freedom 
Democracy in Greece. 

Days and Andreopoulos tailored 
the center's goals to complement the 
work of the Lowenstein Project, a stu-
dent group in the Law School that 
focuses on the legal aspects of human 
rights. But only in the past year has the 
Schell Center attracted attention from 
undergraduates. Days and Andreo-
poulos attribute the rise in interest to 
the new human rights course they 
te.ach at Yale College, and to recent 
cooperation between the center and 
the undergraduate Amnesty Inter-
national chapter. The two groups co-
sponsored a successful conference on 
human rights in China last April. Last 
semester also saw the first issue of the 
Ya/~ journal of Human Rights, an 
undergraduate 
publication 
that 
Andrepoulos advises. T his year, the 
Schell Center will sponsor a bi-weekly 
faculty seminar on redefining security. 
Guest speakers will discuss the envi-
The Schell Center 
has adopted an 
interdisciplinary 
approach to the study of 
human rights. 
ronment, the economy, and other non-
standard human rights issues. "We're 
trying to move away from the military 
paradigm," said Days. 

Although its present scope is con-
siderable, the Schell Center seeks to 
broaden its influence. 
Although 
humanities specialists dominate audi-
ences at its events, the center has begun 
to target the natural science depart-
ments and the Medical School. Two 
years ago the center sponsored a con-
ference on medicine and torture, and it 
is planning one on organ transplants 
and human rights for later this year. 

Expanding programs and growing 
audiences have not swayed the Schell 
Center from its original course. "It's 
really about making people aware, talk-
ing about interdisciplinary issues, and 
making scholars," said Days. "We're 
making discussion about human rights 
effective and intelligent instead of just 
rhetoric." 

I&IJ 
David G"bn-, a sophomor~ in Trumbull 
Co/kg~. is on th~ staff of TN J. 
THE NEW j OURNAL 35


**Title: Dixie**
**Author: Jay**
**Page number(s): 36**

F
or the ten to fifteen per~ent of undergraduates wh~ 
hail from the southern United States, a Yale education 
includes a number of lessons that aren't listed in the 
Blue Book. For many, the real test comes not -in Intro 
Psych, but from the stereotypes fellow students carry about 
Southern culture and beliefs. 

Mary Tobler (DC '95) of Richmond, Virginia found 
that many Yale students view "the South" as an unknown 
land somewhere in the boonies. Tobler spent much of her 
first year at Yale discussing Dixie with curious Yankees. 
"For so many people up here my being from the South was 
such a rarity that I constantly found myself talking about 
it," she said. 

Tobler found some outdated stereotypes almost laugh-
able. ''A lot of people thought that I'd be sweet and demure, 
a belle who was easy to push around, and definitely not a 
feminist," she said. "It was surprising to a lot of people that 
I could speak articulately, and that I had deep thoughts." 

Southerners can laugh off such flawed assumptions, 
but defusing peers' suspicions about racism proves a more 
daunting task. "I had a hard time with people freshman 
year because they had very strange ideas about the South," 
said Columbus, Georgia native Nam Cho (PC '93). "Some 
students thought Southerners were still lynching people. It 
made me mad because I was very open-minded about the 
North." Hyman Rubin III (SM '93) of South Carolina also 
found Yale rife with unfair generalizations. "Of course, peo-
ple expect anybody from the South to be a racist," he said. 

Southerners find Yankee gibes about the Civil War 
especially irksome. "I was made to feel ashamed of it, but 
on the other hand, I had nothing to do with it," said 
Tobler. "It's like bringing up the Revolutionary War to 
someone from Britain." 

When discussions turn to history and race, Southerners 
wonder why Northerners judge the South by standards they 
themselves fail to maintain. "I've seen a lot of racial tension 
in the North,.and it always confuses me why the South has 
such a bad reputation," said Cho. "Things don't seem much 
better here. Historically there have been lots of racial prob-
lems, but I think people in the South tend to be more hon-
est about them." Deesha Philyaw (PC '93), an African-
American, did not find that Northern rhetoric about race 
.. 
relations matched the reality. "The South has problems and 
prejudices, but it wasn't like this place was much warmer," 
she said. 

ican-American Southerners face a different kind of 
xperience at Yale. Philyaw found that exposure to 
ortherners changed her perceptions about the 
black community. "I learned that black people are not a 
monolith," she said. "It was great to see black people from 
other parts of the country who had other religions, or no 
religion at all, or who were from different countries." 

Southerners of all races no~ice cultural gaps between 
New Haven and Dixie, especially when it comes to atti-
tudes. Senator David L. Boren (CC '63), Democrat from 
Oklahoma and Yale Corporation Trustee, believes that 
SEPTEMBER 4. 1992 



**Title: Blues**
**Author: Porter**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Southerners' small numbers can place them at a disadvan-
tage. "At first the university has for most of us a cultural 
strangeness that can be intimidating,'' he said. Students 
must make a special effort to adjust. "People aren't as 
friendly here," said Philyaw. "There is a coldness, and I've 
had to steel myself against it." 

Of all the Southern stereotypes, Southerners' fabled 
politeness rings most true. This can cause problems for 
some exiles in New Haven. "In the North it's no great sign 
of disrespect if you walk past someone and they don't say 
hello," said Rubin. "Whereas down South it means that 
they want to kill you." And some Southerners find the 
chilly Northern sryle downright offensive. "The women at 
Wawa really offended me when I first got there-they 
threw my change at me," Cho said. "I know it's a stereo-
type, but people are just more polite in Georgia." 

For many Southern students who grow up far from the 
prep schools of the Northeast, the path to Yale is a 
long and uphill climb. ''I'd never heard of any Ivy 
League schools before my junior year," said Bob Battle (SY 
'92). "My parents got me to apply, but the more I read 
about it, the more I wanted to go. You can't pass up an 
opportunity to get the education you can get at Yale." 

Battle dealt with Old Blue culture shock by taking 
action. Spurred by the idea that a support group could ease 
the transition to Yale, he ferreted out other undergraduates 
and graduate students from his home state and founded the 
Alabama Club. Originally, Battle envisioned the club main-
ly as a social group. "I thought it might be a nice idea to 
have a group that got together once a month to eat a few 
grits or maybe talk in our Southern accents a little bit," he 
quipped. 

Senator Boren never misses a chance to check on stu-
dents from Oklahoma when he comes to town for 
Corporation business. His visits provide the nucleus for a 
very informal "Oklahoma Club." Twice a year, Boren treats 
Oklahomans to an Old Blue tradition-lunch at Mory's. 
"It's just fun to be with people who think it's perfectly nor-
mal to eat okra and be 'foon' to go to the library to study," 
explained Boren. "One nf the reasons why I keep up with 
the Oklahoma students is that I have never forgotten the 
feelings of insecurity and homesickness that I felt when I 
first came to Yale." 

The Alabama Club goes further and recruits new mem-
bers by writing to prospective students from Alabama and 
offering to house them during their visits to Yale. The 
annual calendar includes a summer party to welcome 
incoming freshmen and a back-to-school parry in the fall. 
Such events provide Southerners with a taste of home that 
many long for. 

Alabama's negative image, based on lingering memories 
of the state's violent reaction to the civil rights movement, 
touches a nerve with Battle and other club members. Last 
year, the club set out to improve its state's reputation on 
campus. With donations from Alabaman alums, the club 
co-sponsored a Saybrook College Master's Tea with Federal 
District Judge Myron Thompson (Yale '69 Law '72). Battle 
saw Thompson, an Alabaman and an African-American, as 
the perfect choice "to talk about the changes that have 
taken place in the heart of Dixie." Over fifty people 
attended the function, and the club hopes to bring another 
prominent Alabaman to campus this year. 

Alabama's image will acquire new luster this year in 
other ways as well. When the resignation of President 
Benno Schmidt left Yale rudderless, the Corporation 
named history professor and native Alabaman Howard 
Lamar (see related story, p. 26) as Acting President. Amid 
jokes that their "Alabama Cabal" 
would subvert Yale's Yankee heritage, 
Lamar named a fellow Alabaman, 
Associate Provost Lloyd Suttle, to the 
post of Advisor to the President. 

Lamar 
does 
not 
share 
other 
Southerners' uneasiness with Yale. 
"From the first moment I came here, I 
felt at home," he said. "A lot of fellow 
Southerners never felt comfortable 
here, but I just responded to it." Not 
since the days of John C. Calhoun and 
Eli Whitney has Dixie wielded such 
clout on campus. 

Southerners who survive four 
years of Yale face a choice: 
whether or not to return to their 
native region. Many feel that their 
education confers a special responsi-
bility. "I hope that students from our 
region will decide one day to return 
home and try to make a difference in 
their communities. I have tried to do 
that," said Boren. "There is such a 
need to demonstrate the importance 
of high standards of excellence in edu-
cation. 

The Alabama Club has taken on 
the mission of encouraging native sons 
and daughters to come home. "A lot 
of talented Southerners go up to 
Northeastern schools and then turn 
their backs on the South," said Battle. 
"They make a fast buck and act kind 
of embarrassed about the history of 
the South. We hope to build some sort 
of camaraderie among the students 
from Alabama and make them feel 
like they should come back and help 
solve the problems of the state." 

For most Southern students, how-
ever, the journey from home to Yale 
and back remains a long and winding 
road. "Of course your family worries 
that going North is going to change 
you," Philyaw said. "It's just worlds 
apart, and there's always the question 
of loyalty." 

Jay Porter, a sophomore in Davenport 
College, is production manager of TNJ.



1 Broadway 
12noon-12midnight 
787-1030 
Tues night: Beer Bash $3 pitchers, no cover charge 
Wed night: Yale Night; free buffet, $4 pitchers, $2 , 
well drinks, no cover charge 
Fri & Sat: DJ. dance party; $4 pitchers, $2 well 
drinks 
Pizza Room-#1 Italian Pizza on campus all 
night until closing 
Yale Student Dinner Menu-$7 meals 
WE SELL: 
TREK UNIVEGA GT 
WE SERVICE: 
ALL MAKES OF BIKES 
PROFESSIONALLY 
10% OFF REG. PRICED BIKES-WITH 
CURRENT VALID YALE I.D. 
10% OFF REG. PRICED PARTS AND 
ACCESSORIES 
SUSPENSION FORKS BY: SCOTT-TREK-ROCKSHOX-MANITOU-
MARZOCCHI-GAFOR-ALL MOUNTAIN 
SOUTHERN CONNECTICUTS BICYCLE HEADQUARTERS 
ONLY 10 MINUTES FROM THE YALE CAMPUS 
GO 3 MILES WEST ON WHALLEY 
1189 WHALLEY AVENUE, NEW HAVEN- CALL 389-BIKE (2453)


P•A•N•D•A 
P•A•L•A•C•E 
CHINESE 
RESTAURANT 
"WE BRING CHINA TOWN TO YOU" 
FULL BAR 
TAKE-OUT AVAILABLE 
NEWLY REMODELED 
$3.95 DAILY LUNCHEON SPECIALS 
OPEN MONDAY-THURSDAY 11:30-10:00 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 11:30-11:00 
SUNDAY 12:00-10:00 
FREE PARKING 
GRAND OPENING SPECIAL! 
AT THE FORMER LOCATION OF THE NEW FAR EAST 
1145 CHAPEL STREET 
777-9896 OR 777-9708 
OFFER EXPIRES OCTOBER 31, 1992




1 HOUR SERVICES 
COLOR PRINT FILM DEVELOPING 
E-6 SLIDE DEVELOPING 
COLOR ENLARGEMENTS (UP TO 12 X 18) 
B&W DEVELOPING (35 mm) 
PORTRAIT PHOTOGRAPHY 
AREA'S MOST EXCITING PHOTO CENTER 
ADDITIONAL SERVICES 
• 
B& W Enlargements & 
Proof Sheets 
Cibachrome prints 
Prints from Slides 
Slide Dupes 
Copy Slides & Kodaliths 
Copier of Old Photos 
Custom Services 
Photo Stickers 
Instant Passport Photos 
Computer Generated 
Slides 
Photo Announcements 
(Birth, Graduation, Patty, 
Thank You, Sale, and More) 
Photo Business Cards 
Full Color Brochures 
Video Duplication & 
Editing 
Film to Video Transfers 
DOWNTOWN 
624-2599 
930 Chapel Street, Corner of Temple 
M-F 9 am-6 pm, Sat. 10 am-4:30pm 

