Publication date: September 10, 1982
Volume: 15
Issue number: one

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Ed Bennett
- Editor-in-Chief: Andy Court
- Designer: Matthew Bartholomew
- Business Manager: Barbara Burrell
- Production Manager: Hilary Callahan
- Photography Editor: Jeff Strong
- Associate Editors: Geoff Hayward, Paul Hofheinz, Jim Lowe, W. Hampton Sides, Lelia Wardwell
- Associate Production Manager: Alex Savich
- Staff: Andy Brimmer, Lisa Hintz, Will Winkelstein


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Comment
- NewsJournal
- Major stories
- Making room for the world - John Russo and Kathryn Hemker
- Perils of the middle path - John Russo
- The Falwell fire - Andy Court
- Fugard's successes - W. Hampton Sides
- Trials of a draft resister 
- Aftermath of a Yale murder - Andy Court
- The marching band's return to innocence - David Polinsky
- The jungle journey of Leopold Pospisil - Geoff Hayward
- Blond, blue-eyed and ... - Maggie Jackson
- Add an A, end an era - Greg Myre
- Dupre talks to the monks - Timothy Safford


**Title: Making room for the world**
**Author: John Russo and Kathryn Hemker**
**Page number(s): 12**

The world has become like breakfast, really.


**Title: Perils of the middle path**
**Author: John Russo**
**Page number(s): 18**

The text of john Russo's controversial Class Day speech.


**Title: The Falwell fire**
**Author: Andy Court**
**Page number(s): 26**


**Title: Fugard's successes**
**Author: W. Hampton Sides**
**Page number(s): 34**


**Title: Trials of a draft resister**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s):  (Not specified)**



**Title: Aftermath of a Yale murder**
**Page number(s): 41**

An examination of the issues raised by two new books ahout the murder of Bonnie Carumd.


**Title: The marching band's return to innocence**
**Author: David Polinsky**

Drum Mqjor Po/insley .ttropes for the fine line between hzlan"ty and vulgan·ty.


**Title: The jungle journey of Leopold Pospisil**
**Author: Geoff Hayward**

An anthropology professor travels into the rainfurests of New Guinea and emerges with new ideas about Marx.


**Title: Blond, blue-eyed and ...**
**Author: Maggie Jackson**

A day in the life of Yalie super-model Michael lves.


**Title: Add an A, end an era**
**Author: Greg Myre**

The Ivy's demotion to Division f-AA could mean the loss of more than just prestige.


**Title: Dupre talks to the monks**
**Author: Timothy Safford**

Louis Dupre's The Deeper Life searches for the el.irnent of mysticism in Christian faith.

**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New Journal 
Members 
Peter B. Cooper 
Sherwin M. Goldman 
Nicholas X. Rizopoulos 
Daniel Yergin 
Board of Directors 
Thomas Strong 
Board of Advisors 
Roger Kirwood 
September 10, 1982-Volume 15, 
Number one The New journal, a Yale 
University magazine of news and 
comment, is published six times dur-
ing the school year by the New Jour-
nal at Yale, Inc., Post Office Box 
3432 Yale Station, New Haven, CT 
06520 Copyright c 1982 by The New 
Journal at Yale, Inc. All rights 
reserved. Reproduction, either in 
whole or in part, without written per-
mission of the Publisher and Editor-
in-Chief, is prohibited. 
Ten thousand copies of each issue 
are distributed for free to all members 
of the Yale University community. 
The New journal is typeset by the 
Charlton Press of New Haven, CT 
and printed by the Trumbull Printing 
Company of Trumbull, CT. 
Office hours weekday 1-3pm, 
105 Becton Center. 
Phone: (203) 436-4525 
4 The New Journal/September 10, 1982 


About this issue 
Welcome back from what was prob-
ably a pretty busy summer. It was 
pretty busy for most of us, too. 
From distant points like New York, 
Edmonton, Berkeley, Memphis, and 
New Haven, reporters and editors 
worked long-distance to put this issue 
together. While writing for his 
hometown magazine, newly-elected 
Associate Editor W. Hampton Sides 
put the polishing touc;hes on a piece 
he believes "is destined to rock the il-
literate world." Hampton found the 
Precision Marching Band's leader 
David Polinsky to be an adroit politi-
cian who has tempered the band's 
traditionally-raunchy sense of humor 
with a respect for the tastes of more 
conservative alumni, local football 
fans, and administration officials. 
Coming up with a cover shot for 
the Marching Band story proved 
something of a chore. Though we 
had a perfect picture of Polinsky with 
his arms spread out,in ecstatic ex-
postulation, we couldn't get his arms 
to fit within the confines of the cover. 
Enter Matt Bartholomew, our new 
designer, and Jeff Strong, our new 
photography editor, who managed to 
summon Polinsky from his chicken 
farm in rural Connecticut. At 8:30 
on a Monday morning, while traffic 
flowed below, Bartholomew and 
Strong found themselves on the roof 
of the Taft Apartments trying to 
re-create his historic pose. 
Never one known for understate-
ment, Polinsky was precariously 
teetering on the Taft's edge, Bar-
tholomew reports. "If he went over 
the ledge, we were all set," he said. 
"Jeff was going to run up and take 
pictures of him going down. It would 
have been Pulitzer Prize material, I 
think." 
In this issue, we also introduce a 
new section called NewsJournal (Get 
it?). This will allow us to follow up 
stories we covered in previous issues, 
and develop shorter stories we would 
previously have had to pass up. This 
month, Morris Panner and Hampton 
Sides put the section together. 
Associate Editor Geoff Hayward 
recounts the story of Leopold 
Pospisil's journey into the rain forests 
of New Guinea where he discovered 
that the Kapauku Papauans didn't 
follow Marx's prescription for 
primitive societies. Hayward has 
been working for the past nine 
months on our research stories, at-
tempting to make oftentimes 
technical ideas interesting and ac-
cessible. His background in physics 
has sometimes helped. He spent this 
summer working in a Physics lab in 
Edmonton, Canada, and pro-
crastinating on a make-up exam he 
had to confront last week. 
You may notice more adver-
tisements in the magazine this year. 
Barbara Burrell, our new Business 
Manager, has been the person co-
ordinating our advertising strategy. 
We have been trying for some time to 
work out a simple yet effective 
method for account management, 
and Burrell has been extremely in-
volved in this process. She is a Dallas, 
Texas, native who did financial public 
relations wor.k in New York this sum-
mer for Kekst and Co. 
We are constantly looking for new 
people to work on the magazine. On 
Wednesday September 15 we will be 
holding an organizational meeting. 
Hope to see you there. 
Enjoy the issue. 
• 


**Title: Comment: Making room for the world**
**Author: Andy Court**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

They plop the world on my doorstep 
every morning. It lands with a thud, 
and someone's steps shuffie away. I 
take it out of the doorway, so people 
won't trip on it. I glance at the front 
page, but I don't have time to read. I'm 
late for class. I've got to get going. I've 
got so much to do. And the world has 
become like breakfast, really, 
something of a luxury I usually don't 
have time for, an excuse for pro-
crastination in those times that I do. 

Then I go to class where we talk 
about something called history. After 
the section, a friend expresses his pro-
found pleasure that he got in a remark 
even though he had not read the book. 
I'm left wondering: if you carry that at-
titude to its insidious extreme, what act 
was performed aside from a useless, 
shameless dance of egos around the 
table? 

I come home from ITIY classes, and 
my roommate is actually reading the 
newspaper. I fall asleep on the couch 
and someone wakes me up and invites 
me to a political round table. I decline 
this offer, just as I have avoided a 
friend's repeated invitations to attend a 
weekly discussion group in her room. 

Sometimes I do get caught in a 
"political" discussion, and it is most 
frustrating. Especially because I realize 
that most of the others know little more 
than I. Especially because I see how 
a~ept we all are at stretching what little 
bus we do possess into a discussion that 
often revolves around semanitcs in-
st~ad of reality. We are all equipped 
wnh the ability to make what we know 
seem like more than it is. We use this 
skill' o~ term papers written the night 
before, and discussion sections for 
which we are less than sufficiently 
prepared. 

Have we begun to believe what any 
suspecting TA would not-that we 
know more than we do simply because 
we have done the surface work and 
possess the fudging skills? And, even 
more distressing, have we gotten into 
the dangerous habit of shuffiing and 
embellishing what little we have ab-
sorbed, instead of coming to terms 
with material, making connections that 
apply to reality, formulating an in-
telligent position which would be possi-
ble to act on? 

I feel a strange mixture of shame 
and anger when I become involved in a 
discussion about something none of us 
seems to know the first thing about. It 
is not just the sheer irony and abstrac-
tion, our naive and idle wonder about 
some stumbled-upon topic like prison 
reform. It is the way the conversation 
becomes academic in the worst con-
notation of the term. Academic in the 
sense of a game that is played with 
ideas, in which all the participants are 
removed from the human implications 
of the subject. So that in the middle of 
talking about what we should do about 
putting people behind bars in horrid 
conditions, someone asks, "What's this 
in the soup?" 
"It's a kiwi." 
"A kiwi?" 

Yes, much of it is me, and yet I still 
believe that there is something wrong 
with the way many, perhaps most, of 
us perceive our relation to the "real 
world." We are in many ways compla-
cent and unaware and empty. Blame 
partly our youth, blame partly the for-
tunate circumstances of our birth in a 
land of relative prosperity. But also 
blame ourselves because we may have 
misinterpreted freedom to mean in-
vulnerability and have lapsed into 
laziness because nobody has slapped us 
in the face. 

Most of us are the privileged 
members of a so-far lucky generation, 
and our problem (in many ways a for-
tunate one) is that history isn't squeez-
ing us right now, and so we are not 
forced to come to terms with issues we 
know are there. 

If we were personally confronted, 
personally provoked, we would have 
no choice but to respond. But no one 
has dragged our parents off in the mid-
dle of the night, or told us that we will 
have to fight in a war tomorrow if our 
number comes up today. Some of us 
have lost financial aid, and some of us 
have had to fill out white pieces of 
paper reminding us that the govern-
ment 
considers 
us an available 
resource. T hat, however, is all. 

And so for us to be concerned, 
disturbed even, with the way things are 
going, we must lead with our minds 
and persuade our hearts to follow. The 
threat of nuclear war is a perfect exam-
ple of something you don't see, 
something that doesn't seem to affect 
our daily lives at all. Until it happens. 
Unless you make an intellectual 
leap, 
summoning some sense of 
historical possibility and thinking, 
"hey, this could happen and it's getting 
more and more probable all the time," 
then it might never really concern you. 
It might never concern you even 
though it is a much more important 
issue in your life than the change to a 
plus-minus grading system. The pluses 
and minuses, paper extensions and 
library policies are things you can see 
and feel their effects. Escalating arms 
and declining employment are less evi-
dent. 

As a student, I find myself in the 
unique position of having the time and 
luxury to think about things, yet the 
nature of my lifestyle, its hurried pace 
and self-absorption, seems to work 
against the very purpose of my stay 
here. 

No doubt some would argue that we 
are here for the seclusion and con-
templation; we will, after all, have the 
rest of our lives 
to read the 
newspapers, and gripe about taxes. 
But so much of a liberal education in-
volves developing appreciations, learn-
ing to care about things and carrying 
those concerns with you for the rest of 
your life. We do not live our lives in 
neatly-bundled d isciplines. We get it 
all at once- the psychological, 
biological, religious, and historical. To 
immerse ourselves in classical civiliza-
tion or organic chemistry while ignor-
ing what's going on around us is to 
sacrifice, for the sake of scholarship, a 
perspective on the present. Why not 
the world, now as well as later? 

Still it is easy to see how the urgent 
though unimportant i~sues easily take 
priority simply because they interfere 
with the daily operation of my life. If 
I've got a paper to write, that must 
come first because it's due tomorrow. 
Knowing about rent control, public 
education, or foreign affairs has no 
deadline, and so it's often not done. 
Thus arises that bland ivory tower feel-
ing I get after participating in some all-
too-uninformed and naive intellectual 
discussion. "Gee," I think, "I really 
should care more about this. Why 
don't I know more about it?" In-
evitably, it's because I've been so busy 
with my projects and my papers and 
my relationships to really worry about 
whether the president's policies may 
lead to the destruction of the earth. 
Not laziness, 
but extreme and 
misdirected diligence accounts for 
much of the problem. The tendency of 
so many of us is to immerse ourselves 
in our classes and activities and emerge 
from them successfully. I was so busy 
writing and night-editing at the Yale 
Daily News during my freshman year 
that I rarely found time to read that 
newspaper or any other. And so in the 
process of working hard to become a


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Andy Court**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
leader, I became too busy to remain a 
citizen. 

We're all so involved in writing our 
articles, 
researching our papers, 
finishing our problem sets, and striking 
our sets that we filter out all other 
things, including news of the outside 
world. Being well-informed requires a 
commitment of time and emotional 
energy, two things you just begin to 
run short on come midterms or finals, 
printer's deadline or opening night. 

When we do pick up the newspaper, 
we often still lack a sense of immediacy 
and importance. History, including 
that attempt to represent it on the 
printed page, appears as something 
outside of our world, something to 
study with a detached interest, and to 
write long papers about senior year. 

But as far as all these words actually affecting people, actually affecting our 
lives in a big way, it is hard to make 
that connection. The news has rarely 
had such a direct effect on our lives. 
We know there are people at war right 
now, soldiers shooting and killing one 
another. It's just not us or anyone we 
know. 

Perhaps that's why war seems like 
such a remote possibility even though I 
realize it's quite possible we could get 
into another war within the next ten 
years. I don't believe it will happen 
because it has never happened to me or 
to my father or to his grandfather. It is 
at once a definite and a remote 
possibility, one that fills me with fear 
but does not arouse my interest in 
world events. 

Some nights I walk by the Woolsey 
Rotunda and read the names of the 
Yale graduates killed in wars. Above 
the portal which most of us pass each 
day on our way to class, it says, "We 
who must live salute you who found 
the strength to die." I wonder how 
many of them really found the strength 
to die and how many were just caught 
in a current that pulled them under. 

The danger of being fortunate and 
sheltered is that you can lose a sense of 
your own vulnerability. You forget 
that no matter how intelligent, creative, 
and ambitious you are, you can 
be swallowed up as easily as others 
have been. What is it besides the arrogance of our age, and the complacency of our time that leads us to 
believe we will be exempted from the 
challenges and the traumas history has 
so continually put forth? What amazes 
is the ability of the status quo to erode 
our sense of possibility. 

If nothing else, perhaps it pays to 
muster sufficient selfishness and 
foresight to realize we are affected by 
what strangers do. This is not a matter 
of being liberal or idealistic or activist. 
It just means making room in your life 
for the world, and doing that, if for no 
other reason, simply because you are 
part of it. 

In December, The New Journal interviewed Kathleen Cleaver, a former 
Black Panther who came to Yale last 
year after living abroad with her husband Eldridge who had been a fugitive 
from justice. During the interview, I 
remarked that history hasn't really affected our generation the way it affected hers. 

"It hasn't clobbered us yet," I said. 

"Don't worry," she said. "You might 
get a chance for history to clobber you 
too." 

• 

Andy Court, a senior in Saybrook, is editor-
in-chief of The New Journal 
The opinions expressed in this section 
are those of the individual writers. The 
New Journal welcomes letters to the 
editor, and comment on Yale and New 
Haven issues. Write to 3432 Yale 
Station New Haven, CT 06520. All 
letters for publication must include 
address and signature. 


**Title: Perils of the middle path**
**Author: John Russo and Kathryn Hemker**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

It came out of the blue, sandwiched between 
the Whiffenpoofs and Smoker John Glenn. 
John A. Russo, a graduating senior in 
Silliman and a cofounder of the Campaign 
Against Militarism and the Draft, stood up 
before 3,000 of his classmates and their 
relatives packed into Woolsey Hall, and 
spoke his mind. Parts of the Class Day 
speech were intended as a direct rebuttal to 
President A. Bartlett Giamatti's Bac-
calaureate Address, "In the Middle 
Distance," delivered that morning from the 
same rostrum. In the address, Giamatti had 
said, "In urging you beyond ideology . . . I 
offer the view of one person, one who is clearly 
middle-aged, middle-class, middle of the 
road; a view of one not given to extremes but 
to the middle." 

"I was concerned about why people are going corporate," Russo told The New Journal. "I was concerned that our own president 
had come out and told us to be a relativist, to 
compromise our convictions." 

The following is the full text of that 
speech, co-written by Kathryn Hemker, and 
delivered May 23. 

Parents, faculty, and honored guests: I 
hope that you will excuse me if I take 
this opportunity to speak directly to 
my classmates. Fellow graduates, all 
about us, our choices and our liberties 
are in danger. Let me give you a few 
examples. 

Book banning, a narrow-minded 
practice that discourages thought, is 
enjoying a revival in our schools. 
Thought vigilantes seek to censor any 
books that do not conform to their 
catechism of correct and patriotic 
views. These individuals would go so 
far as to shield their children, and the 
children of others, from knowledge of 
our country's past misdeeds, including 
slavery. In a misguided attempt to 
preserve children's innocence, book 
banners would condemn future generations to ignorance, and possibly the 
repetition of the same atrocities. 

Elsewhere, there are other signs of 
restriction. In 1973 the Supreme Court 
declared that, with respect to abortion, 
decisions regarding reproductive rights 
were a private matter between doctor 
and patient. But current legislation in 
Congress attempts to intervene in this 
private relationship by defining so-
called "moral" boundaries. 

In a reasonably democratic system, 
such as ours, these problems are easily 
seen, 
if not easily solved. 
Our 
economic system, on the other hand, 
limits our freedoms in ways which are 
far more obscure and insidious. 

Probably the most salient example 
for this graduating class is the state of 
the job market. More of us lined up at 
Career Advisory seeking corporate interviews this year than ever before. 
Because of this, critics have accused us 
of being selfish and without ideals. But 
we were offered fewer choices than 
previous graduates. 

Traditionally, jobs such as teaching, 
social work, and legal aid have been 
considered idealistic. Now, with spending 
cuts in educational loans, social 
programs, and legal assistance for the 
poor, it has become virtually impossible 
to pursue these careers. 

And have we lost our idealism? No, 
what we have lost is the opportunity to 
enter the professions that have attracted idealistic people in the past. 
The so-called "free market" has produced jobs only in the business sector. 
This is the reflection of an economic 
system that places greater emphasis on 
the evils of ring around the collar than 
on the evils of substandard housing. 

Our mistake is in placing the responsibility for social justice on a small 
number of professionals, rather than 
on all citizens. In these days when our 
freedoms are slipping away we must 
realize that social action is not an option: it's a responsibility. 

We have been subtly told-even 



TYCO 
XEROX COPY 
CENTER 
NEW LOCATION 
262 Elm Street 
NEW SERVICE 
Word Processing 

C-....... 
Est. 
1932 
& DYERS, INC. 
51 BROADWAY, NEW HAVEN 
777-2546 

Audio Replay 
BUYS, SELLS & 
quality stereo equipment 
Great components from 
all the famous names-
at terrific prices! 
FAST, RELIABLE 
STEREO SERVICE! 
Factory-Authorized 
Warranty Service 
for many brands. 
Quality Guaranteed! 
252 PARK ST. 
-NEW HAVEN-
787-1558


-You Deserve-
SHURE TOURS 
TRAVEL 
Business or Pleasure 
Single or Group 
representatives for airlines, 
steamships, hotels, resorts, 
limousines and other travel needs. 
13 BROADWAY 
NEW HAVEN 
624-0222 

JFK or LaGUARDIA? 
USE 
CONNECTICUT 
LIMOUSINE 
Scheduled 
Hourly One-Stop Service 
4:30 a.m. - 7:30 p.m. 
Daily from New Haven. 
Service directly to your 
Airline Terminal door. 
Special Reduced Rate 
Youth Fares for Travelers 
ages 13-22 
(Must be purchased prior to departure) 
For Information & Reservations 
Call your Travel Agent or 
Connecticut Limousine at 
885-5188 
1080 STATE STREET 
NEW HAVEN, CT 06511 



**Title: NewsJournal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NewsJournal 
The Falwell fire 
The Reverend Jerry Falwell, who will 
speak 
before 
the Political Union 
November 11, has been waiting almost 
a year now for a chance to come to 
Yale and defend his much-maligned 
Moral Majority. 

It was this time last fall when Presi-
dent A. Bartlett Giamatti released his 
fulminous Freshman Address on the 
Moral Majority and sent waves of con-
troversy ringing· from the gothic towers 
in New Haven to the church-steepled 
hills of southern Virginia. In the ad-
dress, which was printed in its entirety 
in the New York Times and the 
Washington Post, Giamatti accused the 
Moral Majority of "licensing a new 
meanness of spirit in our land, a 
resurgent bigotry that manifests itself 
in racist and discriminatory postures." 

Calling the leaders of the fundamen-
talist organization "peddlers of coer-
cion," Giamatti wrote, "The Moral 
Majority would displace law with 
polyester mysticism and would 
presume to impose a final, complete, 
arbitrary contour on society, and the 
behavior of individuals." 

Needless to say, Falwell and his 
associates weren't too happy about that 
speech. In September the Political 
Union tried to arrange a sort of 
Fugard's successes 
DeYid Ott~ntTM ..... Joumel 
Afrikaner playwright Athol Fugard won a 
Tony Nomiruuion as Best Director last year. 
"monkey trial" debate between Falwell 
and Giamatti ("The Debate That 
Wasn't,"TNJ January 30). The Moral 
Majority in Lynchburg quickly ac-
cepted the invitation, but Giamatti, 
who had maintained a conspicuously 
low profile since the release of the ad-
dress, flatly declined. "I think Giamatti 
is a chicken," responded Cal Thomas, 
Vice President and chief spokesman 
for Moral Majority, Inc., "and I would 
be happy to call that to his face. The 
low class of his remarks leaves me 
nothing to fear from a personal and 
even intellectual confrontation with 
him, and I would renew the challenge. 
I think we could present Dr. Falwell at 
Yale- and he's interested in going- if 
Giamatti would simply stop hiding 
behind the intellectual equivalent of his 
mother's skirts, and come out and fight 
like a man." 

Nelson Keener, who handles press 
relations for the Rev. Falwell, said that 
Falwell and possibly Cal Thomas will 
speak at Yale about the Moral Majori-
ty itself, and then will entertain ques-
tions. "The Political Union has been 
after us for two years. The debate plan 
didn't work out, so this is the next best 
thing." 


September 10, 1982 
courtesy of Newsweek
Falwell will defend his much-maligned 
Majority here on November 11. 


**Title: Fugard's Successes**
**Author: David Ottenberg**

For most playwrights, a Tony Award 
means extra fan mail, but if you hap-
pen to be Athol Fugard, the controver-
sial South African dramatist, critical 
recognition may lead the Government 
to open up your mail. 

Since Heinrich von Staden inter-
viewed him for TN] in February, 
Fugard has done exceptionally well. 
His latest play, Master Harold . . . and 
the Boys, was one of five Tony Award 
nominees this spring, and it lost out 
only to the popular Nicholas Nickleby. 
Master Harold also won the Outer 
Critics' Circle Award for drama. Zakes 
Mokae, handpicked by Fugard in 
South Africa to play the lead, won the 
Tony Award for Best Actor, and 
Fugard himself was nominated for Best 
Director. Apart from critical praise, 
the play has enjoyed an 85 percent 
capacity all summer on ·Broadway, an 
almost unprecedented success for a 
straight play. 

But despite Fugard's public appeal 
in America, the South African govern-
ment rarely accords him a warm wei-
. come. "I have a feeling they may be 
opening up his mail again," said Roz 
Heinz, Press Relations Director for the 
Yale Rep, when she discovered that a 
gift from New Haven that had been 
sent to celebrate his Tony nomination 
had taken two months to reach him in 
South Africa. 

Fugard has not yet attempted to pro-
duce Master Harold 
in his native 
country. He considers the play a par-
ticularly sensitive work to stage there, 
and it is the first play in his 24-year 
career which has premiered outside of 
the apartheid nation. 

The work 
revolves around an episode from the 
lives of two black men (Willie and 
Sam) and a 17-year-old white boy 
(Hally, later Master Harold). "There 
are elements in Master Harold . . . and 
the Boys that might have run into cen-


--- Page 11 ---

sorship problems," Fugard said in his 
February interview. 

The fact that Fugard has developed 
close ties with Yale and Drama School 
Dean Lloyd Richards has led many 
within the dramatic community here to 
believe that the Afrikaner will return to 
Yale this year to work as a playwright-
in-residence for the Rep and direct 
another play. But Heinz says those 
rumours are unfounded. "As much as 
we would treasure having him here at 
the Rep, the greater advantage in the 
long run would be for him to stay in 
South Africa, where his heart and 
work are, to write another play." 

Back in South Africa, Fugard is now 
directing his daughter in one of his 
earlier works, People Are Living There. 
He is also working on his 
autobiography and beginning a new 
play. 



**Title: Trials of a draft resister**
**Page number(s): 11**

I tlaink tJuu we should be men first, and sub-
j«ts afterward. It is not desirable to cultivate 
a respect for the law, so much as for the right. 
-Henry David Thoreau, 1849. 

Thoreau's "Essay on Civil 
Dis-
obedience" has become something of a 
bible for 21-year-old David Wayte, a 
former Yale student who goes on trial 
for draft resistance on the 28th of this 
month. Wayte is one of five men in the 
United States who have been indicted 
by the Federal Government for failing 
to register for the draft. A Pasadena 
resident who would now be a senior in 
Trumbull had he not dropped out two 
years ago to devote himself to the pro-
test against draft registration, Wayte 
has decided to follow his conscience 
into the courts, even if it means going 
to jail. 

•1 obviously don't want to go to 
prison," Wayte told The New Journal in 
a phone interview. "God knows I'm 
frightened about it, but I am prepared 
to go." 

Wayte is very certain about his 
motives for disobedience. "I don't want 
to take eve~ the first step toward war," 
he explained. "I'm protesting the spirit 
?f militarism that is growing in Amer-
Ica. I don't consider it a radical thing to 
say that I want to control my own life. 
I'm not a piece of the government's 
property to be used in Lebanon or El 
hours after he appeared on ABC's 
Salvador or wherever else it decides to 
Nightline the night following the ver-
send me. I think we should always look 
diet. "Not just with the outcome, which 
for alternatives to war, not steps 
I had expected all along, but mostly 
toward war, especially when we know 
with the fact that Ben wasn't allowed to 
that we are on the verge of global 
state his motives for not signing. They 
suicide at all times." 

Wayte, who has been one of the 
most vocal opponents of registration, 
has been a conspicuous violator from 
the very beginning. When the Carter 
Administration first stumbled upon 
draft registration renewal in 1979 as a 
possible way to show American disap-
proval of the Soviet invasion of most visible violators, the ones who 
Afghanistan, Wayte wrote a letter 
have spoken out, and then it has ex-
directly to President Carter explaining 
pedi ted our trials. The idea is to show 
why he would never support the Selec-
the others what could happen to them." 

Sasway and Wayte do not qualify as 
~nscientious objectors in the tradi-
tional sense, since neither has cited a 
particular religious aft-.liation or ethnic 
heritage as a rationale for non-com-
pliance. For most of today's draft 
resisters, it is strictly a matter of per-
sonal conscience. But Sasway and 
Wayte do have one remaining tnimp-
card: There are at least 675,000 men in 
the country who for various reasons 
have not signed up either. Proceedings 
on that large a scale would obviously 
present immense legal problems for the 
Justice Department. Supposing that 
the government could indict and con-
viet every one, which it could not, the 
resulting mass of violators would fill 
the cu~nt national prison system 20 
times over. 

"This is the greatest law enforcement 
problem since prohibition," said 
Wayte. "It has become a mass move-
ment, really. It would be impossible 
for the government to imprison all of 
us. My only hope is that by refusing to 
back down, we can raise public con-
sciousness and maybe get the law 
changed." 


**Title: Aftermath of a Yale murder**
**Author: Andy Court**
**Page number(s): 12**

"I like Richard," said one of the prison 
officials at the Eastern Correctional 
Facility in Napanoch, New York. 

Then a guard buzzed the double-
locking doors, and through the formica 
visiting room, down a door to the 
right, 
Richard Herrin, 
the Yale 
murderer, appeared. 

Seeing the man without seeing or 
feeling the harm that he has caused, it 
was difficult not to· agree with the 
prison official. His long black hair 
pinned · back behind his head, his 
neatly-groomed mustache coming 
down to the corners of his lip, Herrin 
appeared healthy, fit, and reflective. 

He refused to talk on the record about 
the murder or about his Yale ex-
periences until he had time to think 
about some of the specific questions 
posed. He seemed so "together"-so 
aware, sincere, articulate, assertive in 
a quiet way- that it forced one to 
weigh present positive impressions 
against the volumes of collected 
knowledge about the case, and the one 
indelible consequence of his act. 

It has been almost a year since Her-
rin, Yale '75, the killer of his girlfriend, 
Bonnie Garland, granted interviews to 
two authors writing books about his 
case. Those books- The Yale Murder by 
Peter Meyer, and The Killing of Bonnie 
Garland by Willard Gaylin, M.D.-
both criticize Yale for the way it 
responded to the 1977 murder, and 
suggest the Yale environment might 
have contributed to the troubles that 
caused Herrin to kill. 

"Yale acted as though someone had 
inadvertently dumped 
a 
load of 
manure on its front lawn," Gaylin 
writes. "It was embarrassing, an an-
noying inconvenience, and Yale was 
particularly offended by the impor-
tunity of the neighbors in complaining 
of the stench. 'After all, it wasn't Yale's 
fault' was a constant refrain. Yale's of-
ficial attitude remains constant to this 

courteey of Emili,. Boolc8
Bonnie Garland and Richard Herrin. 
day. While the mess was on their 
doorstep, it was not of their doing." 

Said Meyer in an interview this 
summer: "The attitude among the Yale 
administrators that I talked with, as 
evidenced by the very fact they didn't 
want me to use their names, is that 
they wpuld just as soon have this thing 
go away." He believes there was "a 
great deal of misjudgment and lack of 
awareness on the Yale administration's 
part." 

But did the murder really have 
anything to do with Yale? It happened 
in Scarsdale during the summer at the 
home of Bonnie Garland, Herrin's 
girlfriend. He killed her with a ham-
mer while she was sleeping, ostensibly 
because she had told him she wanted to 
date-and sleep with-other men. At 
the time, Herrin had been out of 
school for two years, and Yale would 
not permit Garland to return unless 
she did weU in summer school. 



**The Yale Murder: A Question of Institutional Responsibility**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
members of the Yale community who 
knew Herrin and came to his aid did so 
as individuals, not as representatives of 
Yale. And although there is some ques-
tion about the capacity in which the 
chaplains at St. Thomas More House, 
the Catholic Church at Yale, acted on 
Herrin's behalf, the denominational 
groups here function independently of 
Yale's authority. Why should Yale 
have done other than it did- holding a 
memorial service for the Garlands, and 
then remaining silent as an institution? 
And was it really "the Yale murder" at 
all, except for purposes of selling 
books? 

A lot depends upon how one chooses 
to read Richard Herrin. If one buys 
the psychological scenario presented 
by Herrin's defense lawyer, and portrayed 
in Meyer's book, Herrin was a 
troubled youth who suffered a series of 
humiliations, academic and amorous, 
which he long repressed and finally 
vented in a moment of rage. If one 
subscribes 
to 
the 
prosecution's 
scenario, he was hurt, he decided to 
kill his girlfriend, he searched for a 
weapon, he used the weapon, and he 
later recounted with coherence and 
precision exactly what he had done. 

If Herrin did just act as a lover seeking 
vengeance, then perhaps it could 
have happened anywhere, regardless 
of where murderer and victim met and 
went to school. But if, as defense ex-
perts testified in court, one must con-
sider the whole psychological profile, 
then perhaps Yale did have something 
to do with it. 

"My feeling is had Richard Herrin 
not gone to Yale, stayed on the West 
Coast, stayed in an environment that 
was familiar to him, gone to a college 
that was less competitive, none of this 
would have happened," Meyer said. 
"He wouldn't have been in the kind of 
circumstances which challenged his 
"Yale acted as though 
someone had inadvertently 
dumped a load of manure 
on its front lawn." 
whole being, everything about his 
background and lifestyle, and in effect 
humiliated him." 

The story 
Bonnie Garland and Richard Herrin 
met on Bladderball weekend, November, 
1974. He was a senior Geology 
major in Saybrook, a half-Mexican 
American from the barrio of East Los 
Angeles. She was a freshman with a 
beautiful voice who sang in the Glee 
Club and later helped found the singing 
group, Proof of the Pudding. She 
lived 
in a 
Tudor-style house in 
Scarsdale and 
was educated at 
Madeira. 

They 
were 
described 
as 
"inseparable" by Yale friends, and 
three weeks after they met, Garland 
moved in with Herrin. They spent a 
lot of time in their room together and 
did very poorly academically. After 
Herrin went on to a doctorate program 
Richard Herrin now resides in the Chateau-like Eastern Correctional Facility at Napanoch in the Catskills. 
in Fort Worth while Garland remained 
in New Haven, they became engaged. 

In 1977, during her junior year, 
Garland went on tour with the Glee 
Club and started dating a Whiffenpoof. 
She didn't write Herrin for three 
weeks, while he wrote her at every stop 
along the tour. "I'm living every second 
for you now," one of his letters said. 

When Garland mailed a letter informing 
him she was involved with another 
man, she joked, "He'll probably kill 
me." 

Herrin flew to New York to meet 
Garland when she returned from 
Europe. He resolved to get a job in 
New Haven so that he would always be 
near her. It was on the second night of 
his stay in the Garland's home that it 
occurred to him that he had to kill Bon-
nie and then himself. He searched for a 
weapon, found a hammer downstairs 
and hit her head, throat, and chest 
while she was sleeping in her bedroom. 
He then drove away half-naked into 
the night, trying but not having the 
courage to kill himself, and eventually 
confessing to a priest in Coxsackie, 
New York, four hours later. 

When Scarsdale police arrived at 
Bonnie's home, 
her father, 
Paul 
Garland (Yale '52), had already left for 
work, but Joan Garland, her mother, 
awoke and said, "You must have the 
wrong house." She went upstairs and 
found her daughter beaten and bloody 
but still alive. 

Bonnie Garland died after intensive 
surgery and Richard Herrin, sat handcuffed 
to a chair in Coxsackie, New 
York, charged with murder. His 
friends from Yale, however, especially 
people he had known while playing 
guitar at St. Thomas More House, 
came to his aid. They raised $30,000 
for a lawyer. They wrote letters recommending 
him for bail and found a 
place where he could stay with a group 
of Christian Brothers in Albany which 


**Yale's Responsibility?**
**Author: Andy Court, with reporting by Jim Lowe, and Lenny Picker**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Old the murder really have 
anything to do with Yale? 
Dean of Yale College at the time, 
recalled any discussion in which the 
administration considered drafting a 
statement on the matter. 
Yale's responsibility? 
Chauncey and Taft also said they did 
not recall any effort to check back after 
the murder to see what had happened 
to Herrin and Garland while they were 
at Yale. This rai~es another question: 
What was Yale's responsibility for the 
events that preceded and possibly con-
tributed to the murder? Is it possible, 
as Gaylin writes, that Yale contributed 
"an inadvertent but significant share to 
the tragedy" ? 

Meyer and Gaylin both see Herrin 
as a minority student from a disadvan-
taged background who came to Yale 
where he was overwhelmed. "Richard 
was in culture shock from the be-
ginning," Gaylin writes. He was also 
academically intimidated, and admit-
ted in an interview with Meyer, "I gave 
up before I gave myself a chance." 
Sociallv, Meyer writes, Herrin had a 
sense of being "subtly ostracized." 
Thumbing through the pages of the 
Old Campus freshman directory, he 
"felt like an interloper coming to a for-
mal dinner with a counterfeit invita-
tion," Meyer writes. 

At the time Herrin came to Yale, 
there were 30 Chicanos attending the 
school. He did not attend PROP, a 
special program now held to help 
minority students adjust to Yale before 
school begins. 
"Should a university pursue an affir-
mative action program and insensitive-
ly assume that a boy from the barrio is 
no different from that young lad from 
Hotchkiss who brings his experience, 
his culture, his know-how, his friends, 
his manners, and his sense of self and 
place along with him to an environ-
ment that was designed for him by 
people like him?" Gaylin asks. 

Father R ichard 
Russell, 
senior 
Chaplain at More House, and a sup-
porter of Herrin, took issue with 
Gaylin. "I don't think Yale is as simple 
as the authors make it out to be. How 
do we define a minority? There are all 
kinds of people making all kinds of ad-
justments here." Russell said he disap-
proved of Gaylin's implication that it's 
wrong for an institution like Yale to 
take people who are going to be over-
whelmed. 

·The only tangible sign of Herrin's 
problems was his poor academic 
' record. He failed three courses in his 
first two years, and graduated only 
after taking a course and writing his 
senior paper over the summer. Herrin 
barely squeaked by, but Chauncey and 
Taft said they didn't know of any at-
tempt on the administration's part after 
the murder to see if Herrin's residential 
college dean or faculty advisor had sat 
him down and tried to find out what 
was wrong. 

Again, Gaylin feels Yale could have 
done more: "Makeup examinations, 
incompletes, special exceptions, 
pushing through, and finally gradua-
tion despite incomplete work are not 
appropriate substitutes for awareness, 
supervision, 
guidance, 
and even 
discipline. He needed an institutional 
mother. Where is alma mater these 
days?" 

Chauncey said that failures, TI's, 
and graduation contingent upon sum-
mer work are not at all unique at Yale, 
and are not necessarily a sign of deep 
emotional troubles. He adds that there 
is not necessarily any connection be-
tween Herrin's poor academic work 
and the forces that moved him to 
murder. 

Yale may not play the role of an "in-
stitutional mother" but it does provide 
a support system of people students 
can 
go 
to 
for help- freshman 
counselors, residential college deans,


faculty 
advisors, 
chaplains, and 
therapists at University Health Ser-
vices. There are no statistics on the 
number of lives saved because the sup-
port system is working, University 
Chaplain John Vannorsdall said. It is 
an unseen and unsung network depen-
dent not only on university workers 
but also on the troubled students 
themselves and friends who may guide 
them to someone who can help. 

If Richard Herrin did not hook up 
with people who could help him it is in-
deed largely his fault. In an interview 
with Meyer, he said he was not sure 
what kept him from seeking help but 
there were certain feelings he was 
afraid to reveal to anyone, even Bon-
nie Garland. 

In Herrin's case, Vannorsdall said, 
"' don't know anybody who had an ink-
ling. How can you provide a support 
structure when there aren't any clues?" 

Soul ... archlng
If the Yale murder had occurred on the 
Yale campus during the school year, it 
would perhaps have been cause for 
more soul-searching. Last year when 
John Angel, a freshman in Davenport 
College, died on November 20 after 
taking a combination of barbituates 
and alcohol, the Council of Masters 
took a serious look at Yale's alcohol 
policy. But during and after the trial of 
Herrin, there was little discussion of 
the matter on campus, according to 
Fenno Heath. 

Although Yale may have had very 
little to do with the killing of Bonnie 
Garland, it could have at least taken 
the occasion to address issues this com-
munity needs to address over and over 
again. What is Yale's responsibility 
towards minority students? What is the 
proper balance between supervision 
and restriction? What ultimately deter-
mines the success or failure of support 
systems? 

Without accepting blame or point-
ing fingers, the University community 
could perhaps have taken time to con-
sider itself. That it did not, that some 
denied it had anything to do with Yale 
at all, is the small shame of this enor-
mous tragedy. 


**Ring out the old**
**Author: W. Hampton Sides**
**Author: J.D. Levine/Ya .. Dally News**
**Page number(s): 18**

No longer will tM Band drop trou on national t~lroision, as it did in the Brown game 
(1977). 

It was the spring of 1981 and the Preci-
sion Marching Band was in a fix. It 
had been a bad year for the band, a 
"nadir" as President Giamatti had 
called it. 

Disgruntled alumni, 
in 
unprecedented numbers, had written 
angry letters to the administration and 
to the athletic department that year, 
accusing the PMB of everything from 
"cheap sadism" to "unfunny vulgarity." 

The band's ofT-key halftime perfor-
mances had infuriated New Haven 
residents, Connecticut football fans, 
and 
television 
networks alike. 
A 
Westport woman, for example, had 
described one show she'd seen as •the 
most 
vulgar, 
tasteless, 
sickening 
display of filth that any of us have ever 
seen." She was probably referring to a 
show that had featured Handsome 
Dan, the mascot bulldog, lying in fetal 
position inside what appeared to be the 
uterus of a pregnant woman formation 
while the band solemnly played Bolero. 

Such performances had virtually 
become the rule rathe"r than the glaring 
exception. Flashy articles and flaming 
letters about the band's shenanigans 
were appearing in local and regional 
papers, even The New York Tzmes. 

300 VORK STREET • NEW HAUEN 
Concert Line: 777-7431 
UpcOMiNG Acn . 
SEPTEMBER 
I 0 StePhen Stills 
II Jab Malia 
12 Count Basie 
14 The Blasters & 
B. Willie Smith 
I 5 Richard Thomsan 
16 Dave Edmunds 
17-18 N.R.B.Q. 
20 Paul carrack·s 
Noise to Go 
21 Wan-en Zevon 
22 lords of the 
New Church 
w/Stiv Bators 
27 Commander CodY 
28Niah1hawks 
OCTOBER 
3 Kenrw Rankin 
17 John Lee Hooker 
18 lale POP 

• JUST 20 ...S. FROM NEW HAVEN 
TOAD'S WATERBURY 
s-t. 17: ~ 
Wlatlr 
S.C. ZO: hMr TOIII lr JIIDaw Clift 
SePt. Zl: Dlvld lromNrl 



**The Yale Precision Marching Band: A Year of Change**
**Author:  Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• • • bring in the new 
1980-81 PMB had 
won 
national 
notoriety for its X-rated shows, for its 
irreverence to the military and the 
White House, and for its obsession 
with phallic symbols. 


That spring the administration was 
eyeing the flood of hate mail with con-
siderable displeasure and not a little 
embarrassment. "We didn't want to get 
involved in censorship," recalled Dean 
of Student Affairs David Henson, the 
man who had to read those letters. 
"But people were really getting offen-
ded, usually by the sexual overtones" 
-thoughtful pause - •In some cases it 
was more than just an overtone." In 
May 
1981, 
the Cou neil of Ivy 
Presidents, 
discussed similar com-
plaints about the racy halftime shows, 
and agreed to warn all the Ivy bands to 
clean up their material. University 
officials, including Henson, Associate 
Dean Martin Griffin, and President A. 
Bartlett Giamatti, made it clear that 
the PMB was not an essential in-
gredient to Yale football, and that, if 
the shows did not 
improve, 
the 
gridiron would be ofT limits. 


What was more, the newly-selected 
drum major, a wild-eyed and clownish 
sophomore named David Polinsky, 
had caused quite a stir within the 
band. Why? For openers, Polinsky, 
who had spent most o f his life on a 
chicken farm in rural Connecticut, 
could not read music. Marching flam-
boyantly into his first audition wearing 
a battery-operated light-up bowtie and 
wielding a pink fluorescent golf club 
for a conducting mace, Polinsky seem-
ed every bit as unorthodox as his 
predecessors. 


One 
instrumentalist 
remembered him as "loud, eccentric, 
happy-go-lucky Dave." The nettlesome 
question for the band was this: Could a 
musically-illiterate ham like Polinsky 
steer the PMB safely toward the new 
standards of self-censorship demanded 
by the administration? While others


Jeff lltrongfnle .... .-...... 
Drum Major Daoid Polinsky personijUd tJu &nd's '"niCe and ctmn• image at graduation 
last spring. 
The New JournaVSeptember 10, 1982 19


**Title: The Yale Precision Marching Band: A Balancing Agent**
**Author: W. Hampton Sides**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"We're not out there to 
march precisely. We're out 
there to entertain." 
had written) out of the reach of Harvard spies, that he locked it away in his 
personal computer account the week 
before The Game. 
Parker's epithet, which has by and 
large displaced his real name, was 
coined four years ago: "I wore a black 
cape around freshman year and was 
just generally a 
weird person. 
Somebody came up with 'Dr. Death' 
and it stuck." Death's greatest claim to 
fame, apart from reading the halftime 
scripts and just generally being a weird 
person, was playing the gigantic pipe 
organ in Woolsey Hall for the Halloween 
Concert last year. Crouched over 
the organ with his long, spindly legs 
stabbing at the foot pedals and his wiry 
fingers climbing over the triple-deck 
keyboard, Death could have been the 
phantom of the opera. "It was the 
wildest thing I've ever done," he 
remembered. "There must have been 
3,000 drunk and tripping people 
dressed 
in every wild outfit imaginable, and they were listening to 
every note I played." 
the PMB claims that Princeton has 
been singularly rude in the past, persistently eating into the PMB's limited 
time slot, and nearly ruining a show on 
one occasion. 
The "obligatory" 
Princeton joke varies from year to 
year, said Death, but it is invariably 
vicious, and it usually has something to 
do with turnpike exits and industrial 
smells. 
As last year's announcer, Death had 
probably the most familiar voice on 
campus. Aside from a casual innuendo 
or a suggestive double entendre which 
might occasionally slide by, the Voice 
of Death stuck to broader themes of a 
less risque nature last year- themes 
like Reaganomics, or James Watt, or 
parents. But the band did observe what 
Dr. Death referred to as "obligatory" 
jokes. For example, tradition dictates 
that the band make at least some random reference to sheep during the 
Dartmouth show. It's sort of a conditioned response by now, a formality 
the band follows more out of habit than 
anything else. "These are just 
gratuitous 
sheep jokes," explained 
Death. "'God, they hate those. Every 
year we do one and every year you can 
hear the Dartmouth people squirming 
in their seats and screaming 'Oh no, 
not again!"' 
Another "obligatory" joke is what 
Death described as the "token, below-
the-belt Princeton joke." The PMB, it 
seems, has had a bit of a vendetta 
against the Princeton band which goes 
back years. Like most feuds, no one 
knows exactly how it all started, but 


It has been said that if John Philip 
Sousa were to take an aerial glimpse of 
one of the band's formations, he'd bail 
out without a parachute. David Polinsky 
would be the first to admit the band's 
imprecision, but he has never been in 
sympathy with the traditional Big-10 
bands, which he and others have summarily called "fascist." "We're not out 
there to march precisely," said Polinsky, "We're out there to entertain. I 
don't ever recall being precise, and I 
don't remember doing much marching 
either. Sometimes we have to teach our 
freshman how not to march." 
No one in his right mind has ever 
tried to argue that the PMB marches 
better than the Big-10 bands. "Such a 
thing as the Yale Precision Marching 
Band would be impossible in the 
Midwest," said Dr. Thurston. But 
comparing, say, the Navy or the Air 
Force band to Yale's is about like comparing a copy of National Geographic to 
Mad magazine. You just can't. 
While the Navy band will march onto the field in spotless uniforms, waving 
flags and twirling batons in configurations so neat they make the yard 
lines look crooked, the PMB will crowd 
raggedly into the end zone for warmup 
calisthenics- finger 
push-ups, toe 
bends, swimming strokes, and jumping 
jacks. If the Air Force does a 
tribute to Freedom, complete with 
standard bearers and a jet air show, 
then the PMB will do one in honor of 
Communism, 
with jugglers, uni-


cyclists, and a junk yard's worth of 
props. While the opposing band plays 
"Rocky" or "Star Wars," the PMB plays 
"Rock Lobster" or chants the "interception, 
contraception, 
stop-that-ball" 
cheer. 
Does 
this 
irreverent horseplay 
bother the other bands? Apparently 
not. After the Air Force game two 
years ago, several cadets in the band 
crossed over to the Yale side to congratulate the PMB for what others had 
considered 
a 
particularly 
scathing 
show on the armed forces. "Some of the 
brass might have been miffed," said 
Dr. Thurston, who, coincidentally, 
had directed the Air Force band before 
coming to Yale three years ago. "But 
they're usually a bunch of stuffed 
shirts. Maybe I'm just a kid at heart." 
The band's near brush with censorship 
in 1980 raised some important questions about the PMB: Why do Yale 
and only a handful of other schools in 
the country (Brown, University of 
Chicago, Columbia, Dartmouth, Harvard, Penn, Princeton, and Stanford) 
have "unorthodox" bands? What does 
the presence of a phenomenon like the 
PMB say about the way Yale looks at 
football? And, who should the PMB 
ultimately try to entertain? The 
students? The alumni? The faculty? 
The networks? The local fans? 
"I have to play up to everybody," 
said Polinsky. "There's the administration, the athletic department, the 
alumni, even my mom and dad. 
There's constantly the problem of the 
recognition factor. I mean how many 
people over 40 are going to identify 
with 'Purple Haze?' We have to spread 
our humor out pretty thin." 
Detractors often seem to forget that 
the PMB differs greatly in its organization (and in its emphasis within the 
sports program) from the bands of the 
football powerhouses, which subordinate bands to the athletic department 
and award academic credit for band 
participation. "At no time did we expect the band to follow the role model 
of the Big-10," said Dean Henson. At 
some schools, playing tuba for the 
band is roughly equivalent in time 
commitment to playing linebacker for 
the team. At Yale, where the band enjoys complete independence from the 
athletic department, instrumentalists 
receive no credit and attend the games 
purely voluntarily. With a limited 
budget and little guidance from either 
the music school or the administration, 
the PMB will never march and play 
altogether precisely. 


Some members of the band take the 
PMB's 
independence 
from 
Yale 
athletics a step farther; they see the 
band as a balancing agent, a neutralizer, to offset the seriousness with 
which many people treat football. 
"People in the booth think the world 
moves when they take a shit," said 
Death, who, as the band's announcer, 
worked in the pressbox with ABC 
technicians, stats people, and football 
scouts. 
"We always tried to 
demonstrate to them how utterly 
stupid the game can be when they 
become that engrossed in yardage and 
first downs. ABC treated us like we 
were hired help." 
George Cohen, a clarinet player in 
the band for four years, said it best: 
"It's a way of being irreverent. We're 
putting football in perspective. People 
take the game too seriously, and they 
forget how strange it is that 20,000 
people come out every week to watch 
students beat heads together. The 
whole attitude toward the game at 
most colleges is totally wrong." 
So aside from cutting up and cracking dirty jokes, you might say the 
Precision Marching Band has a nobler 
purpose. Maybe you could say the 
PMB is just an institutional gadfly 
whose job is to make people laugh at all 
the momentous things that American 
football and football halftime shows 
have become. Its duty is to remind us 
that football is in fact a game. And if 
there is to be a gadfly in college football, why shouldn't it be the PMB? 
After all, the game was invented at 
Yale.


**Title: A weekly nuclear war**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A weekly nuclear war 
Probably the most time-consuming, 
and certainly the most difficult part of 
putting on a PMB show is producing a 
script that works. Few people are 
aware of the innumerable headaches 
invested in each three-minute halftime 
text. Tempers often flare out of 
laughter during the weekly script-
writing sessions as 15 cantankerous 
comedians try to defend their own 
puns, jabs and jests. Bob "Death" 
Parker, last year's announcer, des-
cribed the meeting as "a weekly nuclear 
war." The scriptwriters can tread 
heavily on each other's emotions when 
they tread lightly on each other's jokes. 
"Sometimes people believe that if you 
don't think they are funny, then it 
means 
they're 
lepers," Death 
re-
marked. 

The writers quarrel· line by line, 
bargaining for jokes and puns as if they 
were Wall Street commodities. This 
line is too suggestive, that one too 
cliche; this joke is stale, that one too 
lengthy. Finally they arrive at a script 
they consider suitable. Barring a few 
minor "adjustments" by drum major 
David Polinsky or band director 
Richard Thurston, the script is com-
plete. The writers are confident that 
they've created something good, but it 
remains to be seen on Saturday how a 
crowd as large and as varied as the 
Yale Bowl (and maybe a TV audience) 
will receive it. Only when the laughter 
comes do they know they've succeeded. 
The following are excerpts from 
some of last year's most successful 
shows, selected from the PMB file: 
Good Afternoon Ladies and 
Gentlemen. We of the Yale Precision 
Marching Band would like to respond 
to a recent WICH radio sports show 
editorial. Dick Galliette was right. We 
are responsible for the Princeton Band 
not being allowed to go to West Point. 
It was our fault. We admit it. We also 
accept responsibility for the assassina-
tion of Anwar Sadat, President 
McKinley, and Julius Caesar. And we 
also killed thousands of Cambodians. 
And bombed London. And caused the 
' Black Plague. We're fl.lthy, perverted, 
and disgusting. And do you know what 
else? Next week, the entire Soviet 
Union will explode-engineered solely 
by . . . The Yale . . . Precision . . . 
Marching ... Band! 

.Yes, we've been told to clean up our 
act. In the past we used to form ftlthy, 
disgusting formations, like this one: 
Q 

Look at this formation. What would 
your analyst say about it? What would 
your mother say about what you're 
thinking? This is dirt! This is ftlth! 
This is unconscionable! But wait-
0 

This new formation is clean. This for-
mation is nice. This formation is only 
. . a cigar. 

First Russia went Communist and 
it was a big deal. Then China went 
Communist and all the people who 
weren't communists had to go to a tiny 
island and make T.V. sets. Then Cuba 
went Communist and Miami went 
Cuban. Now, in solidarity with the 
workers of the world, it's, The Yale ... 
Precision ... Marching ... Band. 

We take you now to Strategic Air 
Command in Omaha, Nebraska. 
"Hey, what's that button?" 
"I don't know, YOU push it!" 
"I'm not gonna push it, YOU push 
it!" 
"I'M not gonna push it!" 
"Hey, let's get Ronnie! He'll push 
anything!" 
"He pushed it! Hey Ronnie! You 
know what happened? You just 
launched ... The Yale ... Precision 
.. Marching ... Band!!" 

President Reagan has been in office 
for almost a year now, and already the 
opposition has broken into distinct fac-
tions. There's the "I'm in charge here!" 
Alexander Haig faction, and the "It 
was all just a joke anyway" David 
Stockman faction. Now that Reagan-
omics is making it more profitable to 
be wealthy, and Nancy Reagan's hair-
dresser makes more than most college 
presidents, conspicous consumption is 
back in vogue. 

Another example of conspicuous 
consumption is the James Watt •Let's 
use it all up RIGHT NOW" school of 
thought; or, as the song says, "This 
land was paved for you and me." Did 
you know that the Russians have a hole 
outside of Gorky which is five times 
bigger than anything we have in 
America? We're losing the race to rape 
the land! After all "guns don't kill 
people, TREES kill people!" 

Yes, today our subject is amazingly 
topical. We're talking about parents 
-your's, m1ne, everyone's ... Don't 
be embarrassed- we all have them. 
Some are more trouble than others. 
And what about Oedipus. A fine 
upstanding young man, killed his 
father, slept with his mother, poked his 
eyes out, and then had to wait 2500 
years for Freud to come along and tell 
him why he did it. Why ask Freud? We 
could have told him that if you do it 
you'll go blind. 

("I Only Have Eyes For You") 

Well, that last episode was a little 
gross. You want to hear about a nice, 
clean, historical American family? We 
take you know to a small, sleepy 
suburb, where we meet the Cleaver 
family, starring Hugh Beaumont, Bar-
bara Billingsley, 
To~y Dow, and 
special guest Lizzie Borden as the 
Beaver. 

In today's episode, Lizzy chops· 
Mommy and Daddy up into little tiny 
pieces ... "He!lo Mrs. 
Cleaver. 
Where is the Beaver?" "Oh, hi Eddie. 
Beaver took the deaver upstairs. He's 
giving his father 40 whacks. He's such 
a .cut-up. Would you like some milk 
and cookies, Eddie?" 

Russia isn't the only great Com-
munist country in the world. Over one 
quarter of the world's population is 
Chinese and one billion Chinese can't 
be Wong. The only trouble with Com-
munism in China is that half an hour 
after you revolt, you're hungry again. 

Since becoming a Communist coun-
try, it's been hard to get into China. 
We tried to penetrate the great wall, 
but if Ghengis couldn't do it, nobody 
Khan. 

Comrades-UNITE. For when the 
revolution comes around, all the Egg-
headed Leftist Intellectuals, or ELI, 
will Eliminate Leftover Imperialists, or 
ELI. 


**Title: The jungle journey of Leopold Pospisil or how the Papauans refuted Marx**
**Author: Geoff Hayward**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

·The 
jungle 
journey of 
Leopold 
Pospisil 
or 
how the 
Papauans 
refuted 
Marx 
Geoff Hayward 
courteey of Leopold f'oec>lslllf'Mbody M-m 
Professor Leopold Pospisil poses with Kapauku .frimd. 

It must have been a strange sight- five 
hundred Stone Age warriors leading a 
well-clothed European through the 
rain forests of New Guinea. Certainly, 
it was SJrange for the warriors who, 
before this, had never seen a "modern 
man " But, also strange for Leopold 
Posp1 -;il, a Yale anthropology student 
doing research for his doctoral thesis. 
On this expedition into the Kamu 
Valley of West New Guinea, he un-
covered a tribal confederation still un-
touched by the modern world. For 
thirteen months, he lived isolated with 
the Kapauku Papauans gathering data 
on their economy, politics and laws. 
His fmdings 
would 
later raise 
serious doubts about Marxist represen-
tation:. of "primitive society." 

Almost thirty years since that first 
trip in 1954, Leopold Pospisil is still 
continuing his research. Now an ac-
complished professor of anthropology 
at Yale, he returns to New Guinea 
every few summers to study how a 
Stone Age people adjusts to an atomic


era. His detailed observations have led 
him to contradict anthropologists who 
tout "primitive communism," and 
"leaderless egalitarian societies." He 
questions those who claim that the ad-
vance of society is "economically deter-
mined." 

Born and raised in Czechoslovakia, 
Pospisil suffered an 
intellectually-
stifling education dominated by Marx-
ist dogma. Later, when fighting in the 
resistance against the 
Nazis, 
he 
became all the more aware of the risks 
of allowing one man's theories to 
dominate the minds of a nation. This 
background has profoundly influenced 
his research. It is characterized by an 
almost obsessive empiricism and a 
long-standing disdain for the concoc-
tions of armchair theoreticians. So it 
was that when he arrived at the 
rudiments of a theory of law, he decid-
ed to test his ideas against first-hand 
experience. 

He went to study the Eskimo, the 
Hopi 
Indians, 
the Tiroleans of 
Europe, and, in 1954, the Kapauku 
Papauans, a people uninfluenced by 
contempory legal ideas. "When we 
came to the Debai Valley," Pospisil 
said, "the people didn't know whether 
they should kill us or not- they had 
killed everybody else before. And so, 
there was a big discussion lasting about 
half a day with them and then they 
finally decided to let me go through. 
T hey said, 'Alright we'll let you go 
through, but our neighbors further 
deep in the Debai are real bastards. 
They would kill you, so we are going to 
give you two hundred warriors to pro-
tect you.' So, I went deeper into the 
valley and the pattern was repeated. 
The next people said, 'Alright we'll let 
you through but the neighbors are real-
{, bastards, so we give you protection 
of a hundred more people. So, I ap-
peared on the edge of the Kamu valley 
with about five hundred or six hundred 
warriors. It was like a b1g invasion. 
Pospisil in the marktplace. 
"When we came to the 
Debal Valley, the people 
didn't know whether they 
should kill us or not ... " 

And there, underneath, there was 
The first days 
about five or six thousand people 
"When you are exposed to five or six 
waiting for me-just an unbelievable 
thousand people who just ogle you and 
multitude." 

Here in the Kamu valley, Pospisil 
was warmly received by a tribe since 
known as the Kapuaku Papauans. The 
Headman offered to provide him with 
food and lodging and to teach him the 
Kapauku language. Pospisil gladly ac-
cepted, deciding to stay with these peo-
ple and confine his studies to their 
culture. 

Despite the apparent calm of the 
Headman, most of the natives re-
mained both transfixed and terrified 
by Pospisil. Large groups would follow 
his every move, but would flee in all 
directions if he ever approached them. 
Some of the most brave would come up 
to touch him. Pospisil later discovered 
that they wanted to find out if his ligl t 
color was just painted on. In these first 
few weeks, he was much less of an ob-
server than something to be observed. 

watch your every movemen t, you can't 
even go to the forest to relieve yourself. 
And so this was quite a chore, the first 
day. 
"The second day I woke up about six 
o'clock in the morning and the su n was 
not yet up. This is a most beautiful 
time of the day; the birds were singing 
and chirping and everything else was 
absolutely quiet. I thought, 'It is a tee-
rific thing after the big meeting last 
night. It's nice to be alone.' So I opened 
the tent and walked out, and my God, 
I was facing about eight thousand peo-
ple sitting there absolutely quiet and 
staring at the tent. The reaction of the 
people would be similar- maybe more 
shocking for them than for us, if a fly-
ing saucer would land on New H aven 
Green." 

Pospisil kept up an u ntiring effort to 
learn the language. Kapauku is ex-



**Title: Unveiling a culture**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"They said I was covering 
up for our Immortality." 
The Kapauku Papauans of New Guinea prepan'ng for a pig feast celebration. 
ceedingly complex, much more so than 
any contemporary European lan-
guage. But having at that time six 
other languages already under his belt, 
Pospisil picked up the language fairly 
quickly. After five months he had got-
ten to the point where he could under-
stand even when the Kapauku talked 
amongst themselves. 

Having learned the basics of the 
language, 
he discovered that the 
natives were more frightened of his 
clothing than of him. Once he stripped 
to his shorts, and they saw that he had 
limbs like theirs, they began to accept 
him more easily. But now, his clearly 
visible white skin supported other 
misconceptions. 

"I found out," he said, "that they 
regarded me as immortal. 'White man 
is immortal, he doesn't die.' Now, 
there was a big argument. I said we did 
die and they didn't believe me. Then I 
found out the reason they "scientifical-
ly" thought we didn't die was because 
of our light skin. The only light-
skinned animals they had in their en-
vironment were small crayfish. The 
crayfish sheds its shell and becomes 
soft and pink. The shell then hardens 
and is shed again periodically. They 
believe that in this way the crayfish re-
juvenates itself; 
the soft 
pinkish 
shellfish are like the 
babies of 
Kapauku. So, they believed that the 
crayfish was the only ammal around 
that was immortal because of this cycl-
ing. And they claimed the same was 
true of me. I said, 'This is nonsense. 
We die, we get killed by accidents or by 
force, in wars, or we die of old age and 
disease like you do.' No, they wouldn't 
believe me. They said I was covering 
up for our immortality. 

"Then what happens to me? I tan, so 
I started to get brown. They say, 'Aha! 
You see-you lied to us. Now you are 
getting brown like the crayfish.' In-
deed, I went to New Guinea straight 
from New Haven, and as always hap-
pens to me when I first go in the sun 
and overdo it, I burned and I peeled. 
So, first exposure to the sun, I got red 
then I got brown, and they say, 'Aha, 
now you will peel,' and, indeed, I did. 
So that was a cinch; I was lying to 
them and we were immortal, and I was 
covering up for our immortality." 

Normally, the Kapauku are a prac-
tical people, not interested m such 
complicated reasonings. But, a few of 
the oldest men who spend time con-
templating the nature of the universe 
offered Pospisil their explanation of 
nature. 

The earth is a flat block of soil and 
stone infinitely deep. The sun is a ball 
of fire, and the moon is a cool ball giv-
ing off light like that of fire flies. The 
sun and moon range across a solid in-
verted bowl. In day time, the sun 
travels from east to west just under-
neath the surface of the bowl. At night, 
the sun travels back over the bowl. The 
sun's light shines through a number of 
perforations in the bowl which we call 
"stars." 

The Kapauku's ingenious natural 
philosophy is accompanied by perhaps 
the most primitive technology in the 
world today. They are without pottery, 
painting or written language. They 
remember the past with the aid of 
knotted strings. Otherwise, their 
technology is limited to bow making 
and net weaving. They can calculate to 
the hundreds of thousands but make 
use of this ability only in market place 
transactions. 

Nonetheless, 
Pospisil 
found occasion to be thankful for the 
scientific accomplishments of his hosts. 

"Once I scratched my lower right leg 
and developed what you call a tropical 
ulcer," he said "The same day I had 
huge swelling and got down with a bad 
fever from the terrific infection in my 
leg. So I wanted to operate on myself· 
with a Gillette blade. The natives saw 
that I wanted to cut through my leg 
and screamed 'For heavens sake, you 
would cut your vein.' They asked me, 
'Do you know how to cut a leg?' I said 
no. 'Well,' they said, 'you are a fool to 


**Title: Money over Marx**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

If a native of the Debal Valley 
visited New Haven, Pospisil 
suggests, "He would call us 
dirty socialists." 
cut yourself, we'll get you an expert- a 
doctor.' So they got him, and he came 
with two helpers, two husky, very 
muscular fellows. One sat down and 
held me from behind, incapacitating 
my arms; the other sat on my thighs 
and fixed my legs to the ground. Then 
the doctor started to operate with stone 
flint chips which he chipped in front of 
me. When I asked him, 'Why do you 
chip a new knife, you certainly have 
old chips?' He said, 'The old chips are 
bad because there is an evil spirit on 
them.' Well, just clever people, and I 
was more confident after he told me 
that. 

"He started to operate. Now I was 
very apprehensive about the opera· 
tion, that is, I expected terrific pain. 
The fantastic thing was how clever 
they were at inflicting the least pain 
without any anesthetic. 
He cuts 
through making a short instantaneous 
cut and then withdraws. It was like 
pricking with a needle, I was jerking, 
but before I could scream, the knife 
was withdrawn. 

"So in this way he slowly worked 
himself right to the bone. Then he stuf· 
fed the thing with crushed leaves from 
a plant, and then sealed it. He cured 
me; in about ten days and I was walk-
ing. Other people, friends of mine with 
tropical ulcers, had their legs i11 a 
bucket for half a year incapacitated 
with this." 

When Pospisil first went to New 
Guinea, anthropology was still a study 
o f dichotomies: modern versus 
primitives, civilized versus barbaric, 
logical versus prelogical. The theories 
of political thinkers such as Marx and 
Durkheim still dominated the field. 

The Marxist dialectic of history 
presents 
neolithic society as 
a 
leaderless, 
prim1t1ve communism , 
without private property or division of 
labor. While Pospisil did not accept en· 
tirely the Marxist portrait of Stone Age 
culture, he did expect to find the 
natives' very 
primitive 
technology 
would accompany a very primitive 
economy. 

One of the biggest surprises of his 
research was the discovery that the 
Kapauku had a 
highly advanced 
market economy. Contrary to Marxist 
prediction, he uncovered a highly in-
dividualistic wealth-oriented society 
with true money and rigid contractual 
obligations. Natives gain prestige and 
political power not through bravery in 
combat or skill in religious ceremonies, 
but almost entirely through the ac-
quisition of wealth. 

Money is the medium of almost all 
contractual obligations. A young man 
pays heavily for his bride. The only 
limitations to the number of brides he 
may take is the number he can afford. 
If his brother dies, he must pay all 
those who mourn over the grave. Since 
the death caused the mourners grief, 
they have a right to demand-compen-
sation. Everything from parcels of 
land, to wild pigs, to the paths of the 
forest are owned by individuals. In 
fact, 
Pospisil concludes, 
Kapauku 
society is far more individualistic than 
contemporary American society. If a 
native of the Kamu Valley visited New 
Haven, suggests Pospisil, "he would 
call us dirty socialists." 

Rigid divisions of labor dictate dif-
ferent chores depending on the age and 
sex of the worker. Strict taboos prevent 
women from entering men's quarters, 
eating food reserved for males, or 
engaging in male rituals. Should a 
woman try to break these taboos, the 
natives believe she will cause the death 
of her husband. And if the woman's 
husband dies under such cir-
cumstances, she may be held legally 
responsible and could suffer execution 
as a result. 

Beyond the strict age/sex labor divi-
sions there is room for specialization. 
Pospisil saw the equivalents of profes-
sional lawyers, dentists, doctors, mer-
chants and 
even 
professional 
embezzlers. Ail this is a far cry from 
the Marxist vision of collective and 
egalitarian society. 

"I said if I had to put a label to it, I 
would call it 'primitive capitalism,' and 
that of course enraged them all," 
Pospisil said. "Not because the state-
ment was unjustified, but because it 
fights their theories, their convictions. 
Marxism is actually a religion to these 
anthropologists -let's be clear about 
that. It's just not science what they're 
practicing, it's just the antithesis of 
science .... What I found was just 
the opposite of what you read about 


**The New Opiate**
**Author: Geoff Hayward**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
savages and collectivism and 
the 
nonsense of egalitarian society. This is 
all hogwash, very often propogated by 
anthropologists who have never seen a 
primitive man. 

"I don't fight Marxist theory, you 
see, because it is like fascist theory or 
like Nazi theory, or even capitalistic 
theory. T hey are ethnocentric theories 
dreamt up by people with a limited 
knowledge of the universe and of 
mankind. In physics, you don't bother 
with wild models of the universe and of 
mankind. In the same way, a true an-
thropologist doesn't bother with such 
theories. Of course, we have Marxist, 
Fascist and Nazi anthropologists here 
and there. So social science is where 
physics and biology used to be in the 
sixteenth century. We do not yet 
distinguish between alchemists and 
chemists. You see it is all mixed up and 
usually it is the social alchemist who 
becomes the superstar while the 
chemist is hidden, not well understood 
and even looked down upon. The huge 
theories come forward and usually the 
huge theories are nonsense." 

The "religious influence" of Marxists 
in anthropology might be compared to 
the influence of the Creationists in 
biology; dogmas of the nineteenth cen-
tury still permeate the ranks of influen-
tial social anthropologists. Pospisil's 
quarrel is not with the "great thinkers" 
themselves, but with those who blindly 
parrot their works as gospel. He rejects 
the belief that by idle speculation one 
can uncover "laws" that govern social 
development. 

Pospisil's follow up studies were 
almost as revealing was his first trip. 
He witnessed a Neolithic people thrust 
through thousands of years of develop-
ment. Since his first trip, the policies of 
the Dutch colonial government 
towards New Guinea changed radical-
ly. The natives lost an important part 
of their culture when the government 
prohibited warfare between tribes. 
Modern medicine resulted in over-
population and over cultivation of the 
land. Twice the natives rose up to fight 
against forced integration. 

Pospisil maintains that the changes 
in Kapauku culture over the last three 
decades provide evidence to contradict 
Marx's theory of economic deter-
minism. Mcsrx's theory claims that the 
manner in which goods are produced 
will dictate the religion, laws and 
politics of a people. The evolution of 
Kapauku culture, 
Pospisil argues 
could not have been motivated 
primarily by economic factors. 
Neighboring villages often developed 
in different ways even though they 
shared a common economy. 

In one particularly striking example, 
Pospisil describes how a headman 
modified the incest taboo in his village. 
The motivation of the headman was 
simple- he fell in love with two of his 
second paternal cousins and decided to 
marry them. To lessen the effect of his 
crime, he made a law permitting such 
marriages. The new law was accepted 
and had far reaching effects, eventual-
ly altering even the physical structure 
of the village. The change could not 
have been economically determined, 
because the community shared its 
economy with surrounding villages 
which did not change their incest 
taboos. Pospisil argues that the law was 
accepted only because of the particular 
political and historical situation of the 
Botukebo community. 

Although Pospisil could not prevent 
the many upheavals in Kapauku 
culture, he did much to avert its total 
destruction. His books include com-
plete collections of their songs, myths, 
and legends. His works describe native 
dance, ritual and natural philosophy. 
His book Kapau.ku and their Law became 
the official source of native law used by 
the Dutch colonial government in 
judging disputes, but when Indo· 
nesians took over, Pospisil was banned 
from New Guinea for opposing gov-
ernment policy toward the natives. 

Pospisil's last visit to the Kamu 
Valley was in the summer of 1979. He 
no longer sees anything odd about liv-
ing with Stone Age people. He still 
nolds strong ties with the Kapauku, 
counting among them several close 
friends and forty two adopted sons. As 
he looks forward to his next expedition 
into the rain forests of New Guinea, 
his reasons are perhaps as personal as 
they are scientific . 

Geoff Hayward, a smior in Davmport, is an 
Associate Editor of TNJ .


**Title: Profile Blond, blue-eyed and . . . Maggie Jackson**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When Michael Ives began modeling 
during his sophomore year at Yale, 
everyone in the business told him he 
looked too Waspish to succeed. He was 
blond, blue-eyed and preppie. But 
though his features were classically 
handsome, they were softly askew, as 
though sculpted by a gentle hand As 
he opened his mail one morning, he 
paused to flip 
through 
a 
glossy 
catalogue. Each page he turned to 
revealed a picture of himself. In one, 
he was draped on a leather couch and 
he gazed at the camera, pouting. 
Beneath, a quote from Calvin Thomp-
son read, "Living well is the best 
revenge." In another, he posed beside a 
roaring fire, 
wearing a 
leather-
trimmed jacket and clasping a shotgun 
casually. Beneath, Herman Melville 
was quoted, "They talk of the dignity 
of work. Bosh. The dignity is in 
the leisure." He flipped through the pages, 
commenting on one or two as if 
criticizing a stranger. 
Pinned on the wall above him was a 
Dior ad which he had done last year. 
The overhead shot pictured him lying 
on a tussled bed beside a woman 
wrapped in fur with his head to her 
feet. They were laughing. A silk scarf 
was stretched tightly between 
them-one end in his teeth, the other 
in her hands. "It was fun to do," he 
said, "a fantasy, but not the kind of pic-
ture I would cherish." 

He showed me around the honey-
comb offices of the $14 million model-
ing agency. Rows and rows of framed 
Vogue and Glamour covers hung upon 
the president's office wall, along with 
M1chael's December 1980 Gmtlnman's 
courtesy of ~llo Spo<ts-
MichMl b1es found a job without any help from Carter Advisory.


Quarterly cover, and his November 
1981 Linia Uomo cover. Michael was 
the only male model in the collection. 
The honor of being the 'top' model in 
the business is somewhat arbitrary, 
though, Michael said. "It's just like in 
an y business dependent on public op-
inion, like the recording business. If 
you and I had a band, we could write 
and sing beautiful songs, but until 
someone decided that we are 'it' we 
wouldn't be anything. We have control 
in that we can do our best, but until 
someone decides to make you, you are 
nothing." 

Leaving the agency, we headed for 
his assignment, a shooting for B. 
Altman's spring collection. Catalogues 
comprise two-thirds of his schedule. At 
Yale 
where 
Michael 
majored 
in 
English, rowed crew and considered 
teaching, he never thought that in his 
first full year after graduation in 1980, 
he would earn over $100,000. 
This year he will make even more. 
"I remember two years ago, when I 
was discovered," he said. "Dan Deeley, 
the head of the men's division, told me: 
'A year from now you're not going to 
be able to walk down the street without 
feeling self-conscious. People will point 
at you and you'll be working everyday.' 
I never thought it would happen but he 
was right." 

Instant recognition 
People often approach him and ask 
'aren't 
you 
Ives?' In 
restaurants, he often has to wait a little 
longer for a table because the maitre d' 
hotel wants to seat him in front. 
"Dan once told me: 'I don't want to 
see you getting drunk in public.' I 
understand why he said that now. The 
whole market is my public appeal. The 
reason that I am able to work a lot is 
that clients have found that my picture 
will sell their product to the public. 
When I go out, in effect, I am work-
"They talk of the dignity of 
work. Bosh. The dignity Is In 
the leisure." 

ing. I never get away from it, unless I 
stay home." 

"Do people treat you like the image 
you project in magazines?" 
"Well, they automatically assume 
that I am conceited," he said. "But 
·when I talk to them then they are much 
nicer and more responsive. Then they 
admit, 'God, I expected you to be such 
an asshole.'" 

We arrived 
at an 
unobtrusive 
building on 42nd street. In the 
cramped third floor hall, he knocked 
on a soiled wooden door where a small 
nameplate was tacked which read, 
"Maury Hammond." In a moment, the 
door was opened by a short, balding 
man with a slight paunch wearing 
faded designer jeans. Maury ushered 
us in and shuffied back to his seat in his 
make-shift corner office. As we en-
tered, another male model, who re-
sembled a well-built doll with angular 
features, precise hair and wide eyes, 
was preparing to leave. He wrapped an 
aviator scarf nonchalantly about his 
neck and complimented Michael's 
hair. 
"What did you do with it?" Maury 
asked. 
Michael smiled, "I didn't do 
anything. Someone else cut it for me." 
In a raspy voice, Maury began to 
complain of models who cut their hair 
after the first session of a two-day shoot 
and returned the next day looking 
complerdv different. 
The l>tylist, a tnm woman v.tth a 
maternal air, gave Michael his first 
outfit from the 
racks of clothes. 
Designer and department clothes, 
after-five and after-'lki wear, play and


"I can see that men don't 
always appreciate having 
me around." 

work suits hung on th,e racks, each 
piece still tagged. Mtchael doesn't 
mind that he can't keep the clothes, 
since he is two inches taller than most 
models and can barely fit into most 
l)amples anyway. While he was chan· 
ging, the stylist ironed a handkerchief 
deftly, placed it in a suit pocket anc 
reached for her pins. When he ·came 
out, she straightened his collar an• 
smoothed his shirt briskly. 
Upon page thirty of B. Altman's 
Spring Catalogue, Michael Ives wears 
a cotton sweater in striped pastels, and 
tan chino pants. The camera would 
not, however, capture his rolled up 
cuffs, which haphazardly revealed his 
own white 
socks and battered 
moccasins. 
After snapping two Polaroids for the 
lay-outs, Maury took his camera and 
began to roam back and forth. He 
worked in silence. Only the whirl of his 
electric shutter was heard against the 
soft tones of the piped-in muzak. 
Michael perched on the edge of a white 
wooden cube, resting his elbow. His 
face froze in a rapid sequence of ex-
pressions-boyish grin, pensive stare, 
energetic laugh, sullen profile, like 
sli~es clicking on a projection screen. 
Later, I asked him what he thought 
about during the sessions. 
"I knew you would ask that," he 
laughed. "Nothing." 
After half an hour, Maury paused, 
scratched his head, uttered a sigh, and 
the assistant changed the position of 
the wooden blocks. Now, Michael 
leaned back, rested both elbows, and 
faced the camera. H e asked, "Are my 
hands OK?" Maury shrugged. "That's 
fine." Each rime Michael moved, the 
stylist jumped up to smooth his 
sweater or his sleeve. 
I wondered what the other models 
were like. 
"How can I generalize?" he said, 
"What are the students at Yale like? 

They're all so ditferent . . . Modeling 
certainly has a mystique about it. I 
think that's just because models are 
young kids who have a lot of money, 
do a lot of drugs and start going to 
fancy places and become the Beautiful 
People. Most of them are boring as 
shit, and stupid, too. But that's true in 
any business." 
"Is there a lot of competition be-
tween models?" 
"It feels pretty competitive at times. 
We don't compete for jobs, but to see 
who works more. A lot of it is unsaid, 
but I feel it. People will joke about it a 
lot, but underneath there's a hint of 
animosity." 
"What is the most dangerous trap for 
a model?" I asked. 
"Believing your own publicity," he 
said. "If you start to believe that you're 
special, and a lot of people in this 
business do, then you're in trouble. 
Because you're not. There are a lot of 
people in modeling who don't have a 
humble bone in their bodies." 
"Do you feel powerful?" 
"No, I don't feel powerful. I guess 
other people assume that you are. 
You're it. You personify taste and class 
and style. Sometimes it is scary, 
because ad men know that just power 
will sell. They show the guy who has 
the power, who is the center of atten-
tion. 
It'~ funny to be part of this 
advertising world, but it has always 
been interesting to me. But I know that 
it's not real. As you just saw, they pin 
the clothes and nothing fits and they 
have to cut the shoes so that my feet 
will fit in. I know it's all fake." We said 
goodbye to Maury and departed. 
From a newsstand on the street, 
Michael purchased a copy of the March 
issue of Gentleman's Qyarterly. We sat on 
the steps of the Public Library, looking 
through the articles instructing men 
how to be "On the Go," have an 
"Ultimate Scrub-Down," or be "Born 
Again" after an "Eleven Month Tune-
up." The ads spoke in virile 
superlatives of "conquering time," 
"having an edge on the competition" 
and "adding life to your style." 
On pages 50-55, he found the ads he 
had done in South America last Jan-
uary for Henry Grethal fashion. In 
each two-page spread, he and four 
other models were striding toward the 
camera confidently, smiling widely, 
their hands in pockets. Thick fertile 
palms stood in the distance. "It looks 
beautiful," he said, "but actually it was 
100° in the shade, and we were 
drenched in sweat. We were pretty 
sick, as a matter of fact, because of the 
squalor and dirt of the place. See that 
woman?" He pointed to a beautiful 
blonde with a vivacious grin. "She just 
got out of the hospital last week after 



**Title: Michael**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 37-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
contracting a fever in South America." 
"Henry Grethal Designs Sportswear 
Collections with Spirit," the ad pro-
claimed. 
"Has modeling affected your rela-
tions with women?" I asked. 
"No, not really ... people treat me 
differen!}y. When I go out at night, 
though, .I cansee that men don't always 
appfeciate having me around. I found 
that at Yale too." 

Legendary ladles man 
Members of the Yale crew team 
would not be surprised to learn that 
Michael is regarded as a ladies _man in 
New York; his popularity in Florida 
one spring break is still a legend. In his 
1 senior year, Michael stepped off the 
bus in Tampa, and was approached by 
a girl named Tammy. She had seen 
him rowing a year earlier and had 
fallen for hiin. For the whole year, she 
had kept his picture and waited for his 
return. "I wouldn't say that she at-
tacked him but she certainly tried to 
get to know him pretty fast. They saw 
each other for the two weeks of vaca-
tion," said Hal Evans, a heavyweight 
who rowed with Michael for two years. 
"He got along well with men, for 
someone who spent a lot of time with 
girls," Evans said. "Crew is a classic 
test of one's ability to get along with 
guys. You can't be a prima donna or a 
complainer." Another member of the 
team who was competing for the num-
ber five seat said Michael was too nice 
a guy. Usually, on the water he was 
quiet, but always had a sense of 
humor. "We were never sure whether 
he was psyched or not. He acted 
almost nonchalant," said Evans. 
The year . in which he .pegan to 
model, the yarsity boats competed at 
Henley, and Mike rowed in the number 
five seat. His coach, Tony Johnson, a 
lean, relaxed man who has been at 
Yale since 1970, said, "Michael had a 
lot of athletic ability and responded to 
the competition and difficult situations 
with an inner strength." Although 
Johnson felt that M ichael had to adjust 
to the demands of modeling, work and 
rowing, and make some sacrifices, he 
doesn't believe that modeling detracted 
from his performance in the boat. 
Michael never spoke of his modeling 
unless someone asked him, and 
although curious, the team rarely did. 
In fact, it puzzled Hal Evans that 
Michael became a model after gradua-
tion: "It seems like a lot falls into 
Mike's lap." 

Fairy tale discovery 
Michael was surprised that I hadn't 
heard the story of his discovery. "I was 
painting houses one summer on Mar-
tha's Vineyard after my freshman year 
and a 
Vogue photographer named 
Bruce Weber came up and asked, 
'would you mind if we took your pic-
ture?' I asked him how much he would 
pay me, and he told me $60 for the day. 
That was a lot of money. Later, after I 
d id a five page men's section for Vogue 
in April of my sophmore year, I was 
home for two days between Eastern 
Sprints and training for the Harvard 
Race in May. Bruce Weber called on 
Sunday night and said, 'Michael, I 
want you to fly down to New York 
tomorrow, so that we can do some pic-
tures for Valentino.' When I told him 
that I couldn't afford to do that, he said 
they would pay for the day. I figured 
that he meant $60 again, so I said, 'the 
plane is $45 each way and I have to be 
back tomorrow anyhow to go to Con-
necticut ... 'He said, 'Look, we'll pay 
you $500 to come down.' '$500,' I said, 
'Are you kidding?' So I went down in a 
hurry. The same day I met Dan, we 
got along well, and he offered me work 
in New York anytime. W hen summer 
rolled around, I called up and said, 
'were you serious about that offer? Can 
I come to New York?' So I did. And 


that's my story. I'm a discovery. I'm a 
fairy tale, they say." 
"But why did you turn to modeling 
full-time after Yale?" I asked. 
"Well, it was so easy, I mean it was 
right there. I had a couple of teaching 
offers, but you can't make a living do-
ing that. I figured that I could do it for 
a little while, and quit anytime. Also, 
there was no reason not to do it, and I 
kind of wanted to see what would hap-
pen." 

I wondered if a model's lifestyle was 
addictive; you get a little, and you 
always want more. 
"Not for me," he said. "At first I 
hesitated terribly, and the people at the 
agency couldn't believe that I had gone 
back to school. In a way, that became 
part of my appeal, the fact that I had 
gr~duated from Yale. I get a lot of 
mileage out of it." 
"Do the 
self-serving 
aspects of 
Michael 
lves 
modeling bother you?" 
"That's just something I have to ac-
cept. What can I do about it? After all, 
they are paying me, so I am taking as 
much advantage of them as they are of 
me." 

Price of success 
"Sometimes," he continued, "I wish 
that a bus would go by and break my 
nose and I would have to quit, because 
the novelty has really worn ofT. 
"At first, it was really exciting, but 
now it is really work." 
I asked if the work has increased his 
confidence. 
"No, I have gotten more insecure if 
anything. I am not a terribly insecure 
person, I think, but this job can make 
one very insecure. I am spoiled, as I 
said; I have had it easy, and thi:~gs 
have gone well but if I don't work tor 
two ~r three qays, I start to wonder, 


**Annie's**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Corner Park /:X Elm. Parking validated at the B'way lo t . 
Ann:e' s features 
Experience the ultimate 
in fresh ingredients and 
creative preparation 
19 Edwards Street 
New Haven 865-4200 
Open 7 Days 
Lunch and Dinner 
Sunday Brunch


**Untitled**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

"what's the matter with me?" 
"Don't you th ink th at's because of 
the pressure?" 
"No, the pressure is really off me 
now. At first, it was pressured ... 
When I was in my heyd ay last year, 
working everyday for GQ, Glamour, 
or Vogue, Dan said to me, 'It's great 
right now, you're getting a lot of 
recognition, you feel good , you're 
making a lot money but soon you are 
not going to be the new top guy. 
You're going to be up there still, maybe 
making more money, but your name 
won't be on th e tip of everyone's 
tongue.' H e was right, and all of a sud-
den, I wasn't the new guy." 
"That must have been depressing," I 
said. 
"No, not really. It happened so 
gradually that I wasn't depressed. I was 
just imp ressed 
that he had such 
foresight. I am making more money 
now. The magazines pay $200 a day, 
and other designers pay $2000." 
"That won't be easy to give up," I 
"It will be hard to take me away 
from it. I always think that would be 
the easiest way. Sometimes I have 
regrets. I wish that I hadn't done this, 
or that I was building a future. This 
l.eads you nowhere. That's sort of the 
justification for being paid a lot. 
Modeling ends and it's a temporary 
job. There really is not a future in it, 
unless you want to be an actor. But I 
don't want to do that. This will lead to 
something, I think. I don't worry about 
it, because everything just seems to fall 
into place. It will work out. I know it 
will." 
• 
Maggu Jackson, '82, is former arts editor of 
The Yale Daily News. She worked this 
summer at the Modern Media Institute, in 
St. Petersburg, Florida. 


**Add an A, end an era**
**Author: Greg Myre**
**Page number(s): 41-42**

Sports 
. 
Add an A, 
end an era
Greg Myre 
After a century of football with over 
700 victories at collegiate 
~rt's 
highest level, Yale will enter a new era 
a week from tomorrow when the Bull-
dogs begin the 1982 season, their first 
outside the National Collegiate 
Athletic Association's (NCAA) highest 
division, 1-A. Yale and the rest of the 
Ivies were demoted to Division 1-AA 
last December. 
Since then no one in the Ivy League, 
from administrators to coaches to 
players, has come out in favor of being 
in Division 1-AA. Even as a rule 
adopted by the NCAA in December 
becomes accepted, it remains a sore 
spot, especially at Yale, where the 
Bulldogs have consistently beaten 1-A 
teams outside the Ivy League. Yet the 
demotion to 1-AA marks both the 
culmination of long-standing Ivy 
policies that have de-emphasized foot-
ball and the beginning of a new era 
that may cause those in charge of Ivy 
policy to re-evaluate their traditional 
positions. 
From a national perspective, the 
Ivies as a group do not belong in Divi-
"Ivy League football fans 
[have] the same frustrations 
competitively as the VIc· 
tortans had sexually." 
sion 1-A. They have been a steadily 
declining football force for the last 
quarter century. Last season, the eight 
Ivy schools produced a combined 
record of six wins and 18 losses 
against teams outside of the Ivy 
League. Yale alone accounted for three 
of those victories. 
"The Ivy League is in another world 
all its own," said Penn State coach Joe 
Paterno at the NCAA meeting that 
dropped the Ivies from I-A. •rm in the 
real world," he added. 
Ivy administrators purposely 
created this situation which made their 
teams less than competitive. When the 
Ivy League was officially formed, it 
formulated guidelines concerning the 
scholastic indifference, and the win-at-
all-costs philosophy found in many 
big-time football programs. 
Ad-
ministrators effectively put limits on 
Ivy football programs by forbidding 
athletic scholarships, abolishing spring 
football practice, and not allowing Ivy 
schools to participate in post-season 
ball games. 
These policies, which have isolated 

the conference from the realities of big-
time football in an attempt to protect it 
from the abuses found in many major 
college programs, have had their effect 
on the teams' performances. The Ivies 
are consistently thumped by non-
league opponents, not because of a lack 
of talent, but because they are expected 
to compete with schools that give 
scholarships and have spring practice. 
Administrators have applied this 
policy primarily to football because it is 
the most visible sport. Crew teams can 
work out twice a day all year, but foot-
ball cannot have 20 days of spring 
practice because that would show an 
over-emphasis on football. 
"I can understand why football 
needs tighter controls because of its 
size and power relative to other 
sports," Coach Cozza said. "But I also 
think the Ivy football programs are un-
fairly discriminated against, especially 
with regards to the players." 
Cozza points out that 83 of Yale's 91 
football players were National Honor 
Society members in high school. "We 
have never. had problems with losing 
kids due to academics," he said, "The 
lvits need restrittibns ·on monetary 
policies, but we shouldn't restrict the 
kids from reaching their potential." 
Sports Illustrated writer Frank Deford 
once wrote that "there 'is an oppressive 
self-consciousness that permeates Ivy 
League football." He added that the 
Ivy League's unwillingness to put itself 
on the line and admit it cares and try to 
be the best gives "'vy League football 
fans the same frustrations competitive-
ly that the Victorians had sexually." 
For almost 30 years, policies that de-
emphasized football allowed the Ivies 
to continue along their own u nique 
path, largely unaffected by the big 
business approach of most major 
schools, while still retaining recogni-
tion as a Division 1-A conference. 
But when 61 of the biggest football 
powers recently pushed for tougher 
qualifications of Division I -A member-
ship so that they could have a larger 
role in shaping TV contracts, the 
NCAA bowed to the pressure, and 
roughly 45 schools, including all the 
Ivies, were dropped ft:om Division 1-A 
to 1-AA. Yale met both of the new re-
quirements (a stadium with 30,000 
permanent seats, or an average of 
17,000 in paid attendance for at least 
one of the previous four seasons) but 
the Ivy schools decided to stick 
together. 
Yale was trapped in the middle 
because its football teams have proven 
they could survive in Division 1-A, yet 
it remained allied with its increasingly-
impotent Ivy bretheren. Last season 
Yale won all of its games with teams 
outside of the Ivy League, including an 
impressive victory over Navy, a highly 
regarded Division 1-A school. 
Yale coaches and administrators 
disagree over how Division 1-AA will 
affect the program. "Our football pro-
grams are going to suffer if we don't 
fight this," Coach Cozza said. "The ef-
fects may not be immediate, but even-
tually it could hurt us in terms of 
recruiting, scheduling, TV revenue, 
and prestige." Athletic Director Frank 
Ryan is less worried about the effects 
of demotion. "If I had my druthers f d 
be in 1-A, but we have accepted the 
change and it's business as usual," he 
To a certain degree, the difference 
between 1-A and 1-AA is semantic; 
Yale plays 10 football games a year and 
seven of those will always be against 
Ivy opponents. So it does not much 
matter if the Ivies are 1-A, 1-AA. or 
NFL. Yale will play virtually the same 
schedule. 
But the remaining three games can 
be quite significant because they allow 
Yale to prove its worth outside the 
Ivies. As a I-AA school, Yale may fmd 
it increasingly difficult to schedule a 
first-rate 1-A school. A school such as 
Navy was willing to play Yale because 
Yale was 1-A and it looked like both an 
attractive game and a fairly certain vic-
tory for Navy. It proved a bad risk, 
and now that Yale is 1-AA it will be a 
risk most 1-A schools are less likely to 
take since there is nothing to gain ex-
cept possible embarrassment when one 
battles a school in a supposedly inferior 
division. 
Had Yale not been able to schedule 
Navy_ last season its 9-1 record and 
many of the individual records would 
+D. L.eotnefYale o.lly .._. 
Bulldog coach Carm Cozza



**Yale's Football Future: Division I-AA**
**Author: Greg Myre**
**Page number(s): 43-44**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
have been viewed quite skeptically by 
outsiders who could claim such 
achievements were accomplished 
against weak Ivy opponents. One vic-
tory over a team such as Navy gives 
Yale's season legitimacy and prestige 
that it would not have gained had it 
played a lesser known I-AA school. 


And in college sports "prestige" 
translates into two important factors: 
the ability to raise money and recruit 
first-rate players. 

Yale collected roughly half a million 
dollars from television contracts last 
year. A television appearance is worth 
between $200,000 and $300,000. Last 
season, the prestige of Yale's program 
was such that ABC televised two of 
Yale's games (Navy and Dartmouth). 

Because Yale's entire athletic budget 
(for 33 varsity sports) is a little over $4 
million, the money made from TV ap-
pearances can help to balance the 
athletic budget. 

While the Ivies have never relied on 
TV revenue to support themselves, 
television also provides exposure, 
which is an immeasurable aid in 
recruiting. And recruiting is the area 
that may by most affected by demotion 
to 1-AA. 

Over the years, Yale has done better 
than its Ivy opponents because of its 
ability to recruit outstanding players. 
Yale has successfully sold bright and 
talented high school athletes on the 
benefits of a Yale education and the 
chance to play football at the Division 
1-A level, even if this means foregoing 
a 
scholarship that is 
available 
elsewhere. Yale will still be able to 
recruit a sufficient number of quality 
players, but attracting the outstanding 
prospects will become increasingly dif-
ficult. For the extremely talented high 
school player, the prospect of paying 
one's way to play at a 1-AA school pales 
compared to the chance to play at a 
Division 1-A school for free. 


**The Deeper Life**
**Author: Timothy Safford**
**Page number(s): 45**

Books 
Dupre talks 
to the monks
Timothy Safford 
/ 
The Deeper Life 
by Louis Dupre 
Preface by Henri Nouwen 
1982 Crossroad Publishers, 92 pp. 
"What business do I, a worldly man 
mainly acquainted with modern 
philosophy and Marxist theory, have 
speaking to you about mysticism?" 
pondered Professor Louis Dupre as he 
stood before the Cistercian monks. 
The Yale Religious Studies scholar had 
just opened up a series of lectures at 
the Abbey of Gethsemani, a Trappist 
Monastery in Kentucky, where he was 
to discu!ls spirtuality and Christian 
mysticism. 

It was not an unreasonable question. 
Religious Studies professor Lows Dupre 
"God means absolute 
poverty." 

Dupre must have found the monastery 
considerably different from his haunts 
at Yale. For a Trappist's life is one of 
prayer, penance, liturgy, study and 
manual labor. Most of a Trappist's day 
is spent in silence and solitude. And 
this particular monastery, the Abbey 
of Gethsemani, had been for many 
years the home of Thomas Merton, 
one of the best-known spiritual writers 
of the 20th century. 

Dupre's lastest book, The Deeper Life, 
is a collection of the lectures he gave at 
the Abbey in Kentucky. In it, the 
reader finds Dupre's own struggle to 
discover and understand the most 
emotional and mysterious aspects of 
~th. M~~ re~mberi~ ~ ~ 



**Mysticism in Christian Faith**
**Author: Timothy Stafford**
**Page number(s): 46-47**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Mysticism In the widest sense belongs to the core of all religious faith, whether communal or private."  Introductory question, Dupre has written a book neither didactic nor dogmatic, one that succeeds in encouraging the reader to join him in the search for the element of mysticism in Christian faith.

Henri Nouwen, Dupre's friend and former Yale colleague who now lives in the Trappist monastery in Genesee, New York, notes in the forward that Dupre may have seemed out of place at the Abbey: "I kept hearing Louis' inspired voice in this for-him-so-unusual milieu, and I kept seeing eager faces listening to this, for-them-so-unusual visitor." Nevertheless, Dupre's sensitivity to the Trappist way of life is seen in the pages of The Deeper Life. He is addressing a group of men who have dedicated their lives to a spiritual journey to bring them closer to God. Dupre is conversational as he puts forward how mysticism can be part of the spiritual journey for monks and readers alike.

Eastern religions are considered "mystical" because of their emphasis on meditation and personal search for the spiritual union with God. Christianity's history and heritage as seen in its Sunday morning splendor and omnipresent edifices is conceived quite differently in contemporary society, but Dupre contends that Christianity should not be excluded from being considered mystical.

He writes, "Mysticism in the widest sense, understood as some passively infused experience, belongs to the core of all religious faith, whether communal or private."

For Dupre, the mystical search for the spirtual life is found in turning inward so that the self will exist alone with God separate from the structure of existence. Dupre searches for the place "where God and soul touch, the divine place where God resides, the center of my created being which remains permanently united with God's creative act." Those familiar with Dupre's earlier work, Transcendent Selfhood, may find The Deeper Life a personal meditation on the ideas he set forth previously.

Because it deals with intimate feelings and elusive emotions, mysticism is more easily experienced than explained. Keeping this problem in mind, Dupre reviews how the classical Christian mystical writers have expressed mysticism within their spiritual life. He enlists the help of St. Catherine of Siena, St. Teresa of Avila, and St. John of the Cross. Primarily, though, Dupre follows the thinking of the 14th century German Dominican Meister Eckhart. For Eckhart, "God means absolute poverty." For Dupre, this poverty is "the goal of the mystical journey."

Unfortunately, such attempts to describe the experience of Christian mysticism seem confusing at times. The "poverty of God" may make sense to a Cistercian monk who has spent years in silence and meditation searching for aloneness with God. But the person looking for an inroad to spiritual mysticism whose experience is mostly within the confines of Sunday morning liturgies may be at a loss with The Deeper Life. Dupre states that the Christian mystic must purge the soul, as St. John the Cross did, through the suffering and failure of Christ. "The mystic is ready for the passive purgation," Dupre states, "because he or she has long learned to accept all suffering as a God given chance to be purified." This may be so, but it is clearly something one must experience. The Deeper Life is not a how-to or do-it-yourself Christian mysticism book. Like the Cistercian monks who originally heard the material, the reader should have some background in or eagerness for mysticism. In that sense, the book is not introductory enough. It will help those who have already started their mystical journey more than those who are trying to begin.


To the book's benefit, Dupre does an excellent job at showing the importance and rewards of pursuing mysticism. The ultimate pursuit of such a journey is the union of God and soul. Quoting St. Teresa, Dupre describes the union as a marriage of sorts where the human soul and God become "like two who cannot be separated from one another." The soul, through this union, knows the nature and purpose of God.


Deeper Life will appeal to Christian and non-Christian alike. Dupre has shown the peculiarities of Christian mysticism well, but he also acknowledges the validity of other mystical approaches to some ultimate, or the ultimate, truth. He demonstrates how Christianity harmonizes with the mystical approaches of other religions.


The importance of mysticism, Christian or otherwise, is paramount for Dupre. As he sees it, culture and secular society have created the need for understanding our spiritual lives through mysticism. "The need out of which I speak is not merely personal," Dupre writes. "It is the need of an entire age that has replaced transcendence by self-transcending. We may call the prevailing climate atheistic, not because the faith has disappeared in our time, but because the question whether we believe in God or not, retains little or no practical bearing upon our lives."


Timothy Stafford, a student at Yale Divinity School, has written for The Long Branch Press Telegram and The Knight Rider News Service.




~nb&ienb,$ 
tHAi~ DESiGN 
~2dm sr., 
newhA.ven 
161-5.911 
T aft Cosmetics 
For all your drug store needs. 
Complete Health & Beauty Store 
-Daily Specials-
776-84 14 
Conveniently located 
on the corner of Chapel and College


The Co·op Book Department Helps You 
FIND THE BOOK YOU NEED 
With these Special Customer Services: 
7 DAY SEARCH SERVICE 
Many popular general titles that are not in 
stock can be obtained in 7 to 10 days or less. 
No fees or charges. Ask at the Book 
Information Desk. · 
SPECIAL ORDERS 
Direct to the publisher for books otherwise 
unobtainable. Allow 3-6 weeks; prepayment 
required; postage charge added. Ask at the 
Special Order Desk. 
OUT·OF·PRINT SEARCH SERVICE 
If a copy is located, the price is quoted 
first-there is no obligation to buy. Ask at 
Book Information or the Special Order Desk. 
FOREIGN BOOKS 
For titles in French, German and Spanish 
that are not in stock, ask at the Europa Desk.

