Publication date: October 30, 1972
Volume: six
Issue number: one


**MASTHEAD**
- Editors: Ronald Roel, Joel Krieger
- Publisher: James A. Lawrence
- Associate Editors: Gary Friedman, Thomas Milch
- Photography Editor: James Karageorge
- Design: Deena Nelson, David Weingarten
- Business Manager: Brian Raub
- Contributing Editors: George Kannar, Jonathan Marks, Steven Weismar, Daniel Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- In Comment: Call Them All Ishmael
- A Clear Guide to a Messy Affair
- "Who here has enough trust in Lucky Pierre to give ten cents for a paper bag?"
- The Dahl Report Was Not the First
- Fulbright's Circle
- Spring Bombs, Spring Thunder


**Title: Call Them All Ishmael**
**Author:  Joel Krieger**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

Dr. Bruno Bettelheim may be 
the most controversial psychiatrist in America today. His radical 
ideas on treating autistic children, 
which he has implemented for 
almost thirty years as Director of 
the Sonia Shankman Orthogenic 
School in Chicago, have earned 
him lavish praise as well as 
prompted critics to nickname him 
"Dr. No," "Counterspock," and 
"Dr. Brutalheim." Moreover, 
while some liberal professional 
colleagues cringe at his belief that 
extreme student activists are men-
tally ill, many conservative leaders 
have been rushing him to the 
platform. 

In that tradition late last 
month, Yale's Lux et Veritas 
invited Bettelheim to speak in New 
Haven. During'.dinner befor~ the 
address, he applied his "common 
sense" approach in psychology to 
the controversy over Mory's mem-
bership policies. After the aspiring 
lawyers present had analyzed the 
legal points at issue, Bettelheim 
concluded the discussion with the 
offhand remark, "Well, it's nice 
for the men to have a place to get 
together." 

Greg Harris, Director of Lux 
et Veritas, introduced Bettelheim 
to an audience that filled 263 
Street Hall. The 69-year-old 
psychiatrist was born in Vienna, 
imprisoned by the Nazis in 
Buchenwald and Dachau, and 
came to the United States in 1939. 
The speech received sus-
tained applause. Excerpts follow. 

"Call me Ishmael," that is how 
Mo by Dick begins. This makes clear 
that Ishmael was not his true name· 
that his true name was of no mean-' 
ing ~cause he had no true identity, 
and 1t sets the stage for a novel which 
is the story of the struggle for 
gaining an identity. · But "Call me 
Ishmael" told much more at a time 
when everybody was familiar with 
the Bible and its stories. About 
Ishmael, the Bible tells "his hand 
will be against every man and every 
man's hand against him." He is 
the outsider par excellence.


One student activist participated in 
all demonstrations he could, because 
while they lasted it gave him a 
temporary feeling of being together 
with others, thus escaping his desperate 
loneliness and isolation. That is why 
h~ pressed for as many and as pro-
tracted demonstrations and sit-ins as 
he could. All he knew was that these 
activities were extremely important 
and rewarding to him and because of 
this he was convinced that the causes 
they were about were of greatest merit 
Then one day, on one of these marche; 
they were told each one should hold 
somebody's hand. It so happened that 
he found himself without anybody 
holding his. Recalling it in therapy, 
with tears he said, "No one held mind." 


He continued to participate in militant 
activities simply because he did not 
know of any other way to satisfy his 
longing for being close to somebody, 
for somebody holding him by the 
hand. Still, after this experience hE' 
also began to take drugs to escape his 
misery. A relative who had similar 
experiences ~d had been helped by 
psychoanalysiS encouraged him to do 
likewise and he decided to give it a try .... 

The political activities of such persons 
permit them to escape a complete 
paranoid break with reality. By 
interpreting reality in line with their 
paranoid delusions, they are able to 
remain in touch with at least some 
isolated part of the aspects of reality, 
while the support and admiration they 
find for their daring attack on authority 
symbols among their followers is 
another, though most tenuous, contact 
with reality. This is why the first 
mentioned student could seek treat-
ment when he lost this contact when 
nobody was taking hold of his hand. 

Thus embracing extreme positions 
is actually an ego defensive operation, 
which succeeds because the rage and 
violence drains off aggression, which 
otherwise would destroy whatever 
paranoid defenses remained working. 

The quasi or outright delusional 
quality of th~ir beliefs, the inacces-
sibility to debate while loudly 
complaining that nobody listens to 
them, the oversimplification of 
issues, and the preoccupation with 
violence and destruction (the feared 
destruction of themselves, and the 
readiness to embrace ideas of the 
destruction of their enemies) com-
bined with an absence or emotional 
paucity and flatness of human 
relations are typical for these 
persons. Thus the revolt is a 
defense against full fledged paranoia, 
or against being uncontrollably 
swept into anonymous homicide, or 
into suicide. It is usually the result 
of the depressive and compulsive 
obsessive defenses having failed, 
which permitted these students to 
maintain themselves through most 
of their high school or college 
years. Therefore in treatment these 
defenses have to be reestablished 
before, in further treatment, they 
can be replaced by more ego correct 
defenses. 

Thus for them, too, the only 
constructive solution is Melville's: 
that only through a struggle that 
tests our existence to the very core 
can such :· person find his identity. 
The moral struggle, the struggle 
against the elements, the struggle 
with good and evil that stand in 
the center of Melville's novel, 
is in our work replaced by the 
struggle for that self-discovery 
which goes on in psychoanalytic 
treatment. But, as we all know, 
if the avenues for such struggle 
to find oneself are closed, then 
the alternatives of dropping out 
or of violent revolt become very 
tempting. • 


I cannot offer you any deeper 
insight in the origin of student 
revolt than that contained in 
Melville's description of Ishmael's 
state of mind. As you know from 
your own experience, all too many 
of our late adol~cents select to use 
the way out of plStol and ball, that 
is try to evade and escape what to 
them is an unbearable inner con-
flict by dropping out, today ever more 
of~n through the slow suicide of 
usmg LSD or .s~. And even if 
they escape kilhng themselves, they 
destroy th.emselves as aut:onomous 
hum~ bem.gs by embra~mg a 
delusional life of non-existence. 

Others turn their inner violence 
against the outside world, "step out 
into the street" in Melville's words, 
as if he had foreseen our street 
demonstrations; and provoke adult 
father figures who mean nothing to 
them as persons, again as if he had 
foreseen the adolescent propensity 
for confrontations for confronta-
tion's sake. While this. second group 
believes to struggle actively and 
vigorously for their autonomy, they 
destroy it in fact as radically as 
their counterparts who withdraw into 
solipsistic isolation. ·How much they 
are brothers under the skin could be 
seen, for example, in how easily 
they made common cause, for 
example, in Chicago during the 
democratic convention, as on so many 
other occasions. 

In my own work with a small 
number of extreme student activists--
as long as they find easy discharge 
for their inner pressures through 
their acting out, and can fool them-
selves that they have escaped their 
desperate loneliness through the 
admiration of their own crowd, 
they are not likely to subject them-
selves to the rigorous examination 
of their inner motives which is 
implied in psychoanalytic work--as 
soon as they began to take stock of 
themselves, instead of acting out, 
they sunk into deep depression. 
Revolt had indeed berm their substi-
tute for pistol and bail, and seeing 
them in this dE"ep depression, in their 
feeling of hopeless isolation, feeling 
of utter worthlessness and despair, 
one cannot help feeling that, at the 
time, they may have been better off 
revolting, though society certainly 
was not. 

So why do I not let them go on 
with their revolt? Because of their 
own choice. Once they have taken a 
first good look at themselves and 
their ~otives, not a single one in my 
~xpenence wanted to get back to 
their revolt, because they by then 
knew that it did not offer them a way 
to the other, and this is what they 
despe~ately lo_nged for. The immensity 
of therr desparr of ever reaching the 
other is symbolized by their feeling 
that they can reach him only by imt 
having to destroy the entire world. 
Only wh~n the establishment is brought 
down, Wlll they be able, so they believe 
to gain access to the other. Only if 
they realize that through their revolt 
they cannot reach the other do they 
become accessible to ~atment. 

During the past few years Yale 
seems to haue misplaced its penchant 
for critical reflection. Part of the 
problem lies with what is written. 
We notice the Lit has folded. The 
News remains the oldest college 
daily. Things once again seem 
slow around here. The New JDurnal 
will work to draw attention back 
to those matters whose considera-
tion was once commonplace: 
education at Yale, the role of the 
University, the relationship of 
Yale to New Haven, life in the 
community. The Journal returns 
in an attempt to counter the 
monotony of the mainstream and 
to challenge facile analysis and 
creative non-reporting. Join us 
every three weeks, and debate us on 
and off the page. 
The New Journal copyright 1972 
by the New Journal at Yale, Inc., 
a non-profit corporation. 
Opinions expressed in articles 
are those of the author. 


**Title: A CLEAR GUIDE TO A MESSY AFFAIR**
**Author: Gary Friedman and Stuart Rohrer**
**Page number(s): 3-4**

In a year when Yale was sweating 
out its worst financial crisis in 
memory, the University community 
was staggered in early September 
by the revelation that the predicted 
operating deficit of $5.75 million 
for 1971-72 had missed the mark 
by more than four and a half 
million dollars. The discrepancy 
between the predicted deficit and 
the actual $1.2 million figure made 
news across the nation, disturbed 
and infuriated many faculty and 
administrators, and upset the 
operations of several key planning 
committees charged with produc-
ing remedies for Yale's financial 
ills. 

The deficit issue, with prodding 
from news reports, exploded into 
a lively controversy, apparently 
fraught with internal politics, 
laced with bitter feelings, and 
confused with reckless accusations. 
The controversy seemed to threaten 
the credibility of the Brewster 
Administration and cast suspicion 
on the competence of University 
Treasurer John Ecklund. It even 
raised eyebrows among the 
Fellows of ~he Yale Corporation. 

The initial fires of the controversy 
have calmed enough to permit a 
more clear-headed assessment 
of the deficit situation. The report 
of the Provost on the reasons for 
the miscalculation has found no 
single cause for the miscalculated 
deficit, but rather a string of small 
causes that added up to produce the 
discrepancy. Yet the deficit error 
has had a profound effect on the 
short term planning of the 
University, and additional results 
that may not be known for some time. 


The recent history of Yale's 
financiaJ picture begins in 1965, when 
computer technology entered the 
process. At about the same time, a 
new administration and financial 
team was assembling--Kingman 
Brewster had assumed the Presidency 
a year earlier; John Ecklund, the 
University Treasurer, and Robert 
O'Connor, the Budget Director, 
moved in a few years later. At this 
time, unfortunately, money became 
a problem. And so began a new era 
in the University's history. Yale, 
the proud University that had 
recently provided waiters and maids 
for its students, now found itself 
with a budget deficit. Between 
1967 and 1970 the annual 
deficit climbed from $300,000 to 
an imposing $1.8 million. 

Gary Friedman is an Associate 
Editor of The New Journal. 
Stuart Rohrer is a junior in 
Calhoun College. He has contributed 
to the Alumni Magazine and worked 
as a summer intern for Scientific 
American. 

At first, the financial crisis in 
higher education was less threatening 
at Yale than at many other 
Universities, but the ultimate impact 
of growing budget deficit would 
prove equally fatal. Neither new 
computers nor skilled budget officials 
could alter the stark fact that a 
budget deficit must be made up out 
of the .University's endowment, the 
source which provides yale with 25 
per cer\t ot her annuaJ mcome ana 
holds the key to her future growth 
and financial stability. Depleting 
the endowment necessarily results 
in irrevocable loss of future income. 

In December, 1970, John Ecklund 
cast an understandably gloomy eye 
to the future, and predicted that 
Yale's deficit would be $8 million 
in 1971-2 if current practices 
continues unaltered. Ecklund's 
forecast was not a warning estimated 
off the top of his head. Although they 
had just wrapped up the '69-'70 
fiscal year, and were in the midst of 
'70-'71, University officials were 
mired in the long process of 
constructing the '71-'72 budget. 
Their deadline was May, 1971, at 
which time the Yale Corporation 
would approve their proposed 
budget. 

By late summer 1970, O'Connor 
and his staff of seven were already 
making income and.expenditure 
estimates for the 1971-72 budget. 
The Treasurer makes the official 
pronouncements and gets wqat 
little publicity there generally is in 
that department, but the official at 
the heart of the budgetary process is 
O'Connor. He spoke to Alumni 
Fund officers and fund-raisers, 
examined the Endowment and 
possible government funds, and made 
reasonable projections based on 
his research and experience. He also 
examined the University's current 
cos~ set-up, spoke to personnel 
officials about their needs, and thus 
began formulating a notion of 
possible expenses. 

Estimating endowment income 
is impossible, for that would 
require predicting the performance 
of the stock market in the year 
ahead. How then does the 
University arrive at a budget 
figure? 

As Ecklund observes, "This 
turns out to be the simplest thing 
of all," and what makes it 
simple is the "University 
Equation." In esst:nce, the 
University decides before the year 
begins how much it will spend 
from endowment income, and any 
errors in estimation are taken into 
account in the following year's 
allowance. 

With the preliminary work 
completed, a slew of officials 
entered the process in the form of 
the University Budget Committee. 
Its members included the Provost, 
the Associate Provost, the 



**Yale's Budgetary Discrepancy**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Treasurer, the Comptroller, 
sometimes President Brewster, 
and O'Connor, who is the 
·Committee's chief staff officer. 
'They reviewed the initial findings 
and made their own criticisms and 
emendations. In November, 1970, 
they approved the broad outlines 
of the proposed University 
budget, at which time the various 
deans and operating officers were 
given guidelines for preparing 
their specific budgets. 

Throughout the winter of 1970 
O'Connor held meetings on each 
one of Yale's 400 budgets, 
reviewing with each official the 
estimates for his particular 
budget. Some sessions lasted only 
ten or fifteen minutes, but some of 
the more complicated budgets--
University Treasurer John Ecklund: 
who said he was to blame ? 
like that for the History Department--
required a.day of examination. 
O'Connor's role was far more than 
that of collating budgets from the 
numerous operating departments. 
Often he did not accept the 
estimates that he scrutinized and 
became responsible for making 
reasonable corrections. 

In January 1971, an interim report 
was presented to the Corporation, 
and the deficit was estimated at 
$6.5 million. A final report was 
made in May, and as a result of 
various favorable budget decisions, 
the estimated deficit was reduced 
to $5.7 million, the figure approved 
by the Yale Corporation. The 
deficit is simply the arithmetic 
difference between projected income 
and projected expenses. The 
Corporation was willing to counten-
ance a deficit for the next sever.a1 
years, in the expectation that 
implementation of certain policy 
decisions would create a balanced 
budget by '75-'76. 

But Yale can not absorb yearly 
deficits for very long. Although a 
$650 million endowment cushion 
seems ample, in fact only $37 
million--the University Unrestricted 
Expendable Endowment (UUEE)-
can be used to make up a deficit. 
The remaining millions are 
legally restricted in one way or 
another to certain specific uses-
and paying for a budget deficit 
is not among them. In the last six 
years, $8 million of the Expendible 
Endowment has gone toward 
meeting annual deficits. It becomes 
clear that rising budget deficits 
will not only lessen Yale's future 
income, but soon deplete this 
Endowment, and leave Yale in an 
awkward and unfortunate financial 
position. 

The $5.7 million figure included 
some $1.8 million in contingency 
funds, the largest of which was 
$750,000 for "uncontrollable 
variances." What were the 
contingency funds for? No one 
knew, but everyone felt sure that, 
given the dismal financial 
conditions, the money would be 
needed to cover expenses they 
had not foreseen. The contingency 
funds thus reflected the pessimism 
engendered by the recent deficit 
years, as well as the necessarily 
uncertain nature of budget 
predictions. 

Essentially, the budget is a 
dynamic document. Ecklund 
revised his estimate twice, first in 
January, 1972, when he announced 
to the Corporation a new deficit 
estimate of $5.1 million, with a 
$1.4 million figure for unspent 
contingency funds. This more 
optimistic prediction was based 
on the occurrence of events that 
could not have been foreseen 
earlier and on positive actions 
taken during the year to alleviate 
the crisis. In May, 1972, Ecklund 
made a second estimate of $4.6 
million, with $1 million in 
contingency funds still unspent. 
So at this point the estimated 
absolute deficit was $3.6 million. 

Sometime in late August 1972, 
the Budget Office calculated the 
actual University operating deficit 
.. at $1.2 million. The figure was 
reported to President Brewster 
shortly afterward. In his letter to 
Prouost Richard Cooper: he explained it all. 
4/The New Journal/October 30, 1972 
the Fellows of the Yale Cor{1oration 
September 8, Brewster wrote: 
With mixed emotions I recently 
received surprising news from the 
Treasurer's Office. Instead of the 
five million seven hundred thousand 
dollar deficit for.: 1971-72 which 
was approved a year ago last June 
by the Corporation, the actual 
figure is approximately 011e million 
dollars. 

Brewster's letter went on to praise 
Yale administrators for their work 
in implementing budget cuts around 
the University. But he also expressed 
displeasure at the discrepancy 
between the predicted and actual 
budgets: "The surprising divergence 
of estimates and performance does 
pose a danger that no future 
forecasts will be believed; and that 
there will be continued skepbcism 
about the adequacy ot the 
information about where we stand 
financially at any given time." 

In response to that "danger" and 
possible "skepticism" Brewster 
appointed Provost Richard N. Cooper 
to undertake an investigation of 
the deficit discrepancy. He also 
reported the deficit surprise to 
the Summer Study Committee 
chaired by Professors Blum and 
Pelikan. The Study Committee had 
been considering possible ways to 
balance the University budget 
through calendar reform and cuts in 
the academic and non-academic 
sides of the University. Now they had 
to revise their suggestions to meet 
the implications of the deficit 
revelation. 

Even if the Treasurer's Office 
revised its estimate in May 1972 to 
$4.6 million with an extra million in 
unused contingencies, the question 
remains: what caused the discrepancy 
between the May figures and the 
actual deficit? This is one of the 
matters Provost Cooper discussed in 
a report to the President dated 
October 9. His report suggested 
that "the discrepancy between budgeted 
and actual results for 1971-72 was 
·due to a wide variety of factors, 
each of which requires its own 
t!Xplanation, rather than to any single 
factor." 

Budget Director U '()onrtor: 
"We could be more on top of things." 



In this way the Provost's Report 
attributed the discrepancy both to 
unforeseen changes in the operating 
budget, and to a pessimistic bias in 
projection due to past economic 
conditions. But what caused these 
unforeseen changes? Why weren't 
they caught and reported earlier? 

One reason is the University's 
cash-accounting system, an 
accounting method used by most 
universities because most 
t- · universities have tended to use it. 
According to Comptroller Albert 
Buesking, the man second-in-
command to Ecklund, that is the 
only reason Yale uses the cash-
accounting rather than the 
accrual accounting system, 
favored by most large businesses. 

In cash-accounting, a debt 
becomes fiscally real only 
when there is a cash outlay to pay 
it, not when the debt is incurred. 
Until a bill is paid , Yale's central 
budgeting department does not 
even know it exists. Thus the 
University's books may present a 
deceptive picture of financial 
health only because a backlog of 
paperwork in various departments 
has prevented certain bills from 
being paid. 

In the accrual system, a debt 
is recorded as soon as it is 
incurred. The organization has an 
accurate picture of its true financial 
condition all the time. According 
to Buesking, discussions have been 
under way for several years 
about how to change Yale's account-
ing to the accrual system, and that 
ultimately the University will 
make the switch. At the 
October 14 Corporation meeting, 
the Trustees urged the University 
to institute those changes. This 
reform will help University officials 
keep better track of the actual 
course of expenditures and income 
throughout the year. 

In any case, how accurate can 
University budget estimates be? 
"No one expects on-target fore-
casting" a year in advance of a 
$130 million budget, admits 
Kingman Brewster, but hardly any om 
understood just how tentative the 
$5.7 million figure actually could 
be. The financial officials knew 
that the figure was, in effect, only 
a best first guess, even though it 
was the approved "official figure," 
rendered imprecise by a host of 
factors. 

The Cooper Report was necessary 
to detail such factors, because they 
had not been explained at the 
appropriate time--when the figure 
was announced. Ecklund later 
pointed out that government 
budgets consider a five per cent 
margin of error acceptable, and that 
the Yale estimate was only off by 
$4.5 million out of $130 million. 

Later, however, Blum said that 
the committee did not use the $5.7 
million figure as a "hard" figure, but 
rather as an estimate of the magnitude 
of the problem. 


**Who Here Has Enough Trust in Lucky Pierre to Give Ten Cents for a Paper Bag?**
**Author: Ronald Roel**
**Page number(s): 6**

'WHOHEREHASENOUGH 
TRUST IN LUCKY PIERRE 
TO GIVE TEN CENTS FOR 
A PAPER BAG?" 
Story by Ronald Roel 
Photos by Jim Karageorge 
Sunday morning, when the stars 
are still clear above Boulevard St., 
·Lucky Pierre-the king of the flea 
market--begins to bring all the 
week's work together. About 
6:45, he parks his van in the 
dirt lot behind the Big Buy Food 
Center and walks over to the 
Riverside Cafe to pick up three 
coffees, regular. Back at booth 
505, Lucky Pierre's underlings, 
John and Eddie, pile his merchan-
dise on a counter assembled from 
ping-pong tables and saw horses. 
Wigs, pantihose, magnetic hair 
nets, foam cushion rollers, 
lipsticks, colored yarns, and pony 
tail holders. John is a little 
young so Pierre will have to ex-
plain that the bags for the mer-
chandise must be an arm's 
length from the counter where he 
can grab them without looking 
or breaking the stride of his sales 
pitch. Everything must be at 
Pierre's fingertips; and today, when 
Lucky Pierre is pushing Pro tufted 
toothbrushes for a quarter a piece, 
he will always have a ready sample 
in his back pocket. 

Two hours before Lucky Pierre 
opens up booth 505, the produce 
people--Benny's fruit and vegetable 
boys, the Mascari Bros. wholesale 
bananas, Charlie the chicken man, 
the melon, pumpkin and cantelope 
gang--begin their five-to-five 
selling day. The Italians across from 
Benny always set up first: they 
like to gossip and joke while 
waiting for dawn, sitting around a 
barrel filled with burning crates 
and fruit boxes. As the Ill'St 
customers filter through the 
market, the young Italian son (who 
probably is in line to inherit the 
family business) takes his station 
in front by the fancy peppers, 
sweet com, and escarole. He 
plants a cigaret behind his ear, 
puts on a red hat (a woolen 
hat when it gets cooler) 
and begms his endless chatter--
"Oh boy oh boy oh boy oh boy 
oh boy, we gaaaht em"--while the 
father in a blue sun hat barks 
"Beauuutiful!" and a relative 
finishes the conversation--"haaa! ta 
la Ia Ia Ia chaaa!" 

Sometimes the family gets into 
food fights with the boys selling 
tomatoes--five pounds for a dollar; 
but most of these fights are 
provoked by one of Benny's boys 
who buys a pound of tomatoes 
and takes the first shots. Benny's 
boys are rarely suspected of 
provocation because they are 
usually selling bushels of Maggio 
Bell peppers and because Benny 
runs a respectable business. In 
fact, Benny ("Hey, what are you 
saying back there") Rabinowitz 
has been working the wholesale 
fruit and vegetable line for 40 
years. He likes to work in a 
maroon sweater, white shirt and 
tie, and talk about the fLISt game 
in the Bowl 58 years ago, when 
Harvard whalloped Yale. 

While Benny is hawking twenty 
oranges for a dollar, and Charlie 
the chicken man is getting rid of 
his weak, unsaleable chickens by 
flinging them in the lagoon for the 
seagulls, the market swells with 
customers. By nine o'clock, the 
New Haven Plaza is crammed with 
several hundred cars. The morning 
prices begin to stabilize: Benny, 
who's got the best deals on peppers 
and citruS. ttuits, forces the prices 
down; the Italians keep the com 
at fifteen ears for a dollar. 



**Flea Market**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On the far side of the market, 
Carmen is setting up across from the 
fat-faced boy who is selling his 
mother-in~law's bastmg !llaten als 
for a quarter of a "yaahd--it's a 
dollah-nineteen at Calgon's, I 
•checked it last night." Carmen 
is a flea market professional, a · 
grizzled man with small watery 
eyes and Tony and Lucille's pizza 
stains on his shirt. He sits at the 
center of his long booth, King 
Carmen, with his wife and two 
granddaughters selling sweaters and 
china on his left, a group of 
friends and relatives pushing 
furniture and plumbing equipment 
on his right. 
"I'll give you fifty cents for this." 
An old man points to a threaded 
steel pipe. 
Carmen blinks. "It cosl me more 
than that. That's my life on the 
table, you know." Monkey wrenches, 
pipe fittings, washers, files, saws. 
Carmen claims he is an ex-plumber 
who is too old to climb, and is stuck 
with fifteen years of tools in his 
garage. 
"It ain't worth more than fifty 
cents." 
"All right, take it pop. Joey, get 
the man's money." Life is hard, 
explains Carmen .. He's been losing 
money in this business, people 
stealing left and right. This is the 
last year, he says, before he goes 
on social security. There are rumors 
around the flea market that 
Carmen sometimes finishes the 
day with four or five hundred 
dollars in his pocket. 
" Thank you sir," Joey says. 
"Now, what else can I do you out 
of?" 


Two booths down from Lucky 
Pierre, h is chief understudy, Eddie, 
is selling rings, earrings, bracelets, 
and h airpms. "Buy one, I give you 
one. Hurry up before my boss 
gets back." Lucky Pierre is not 
listening to Eddie, but watching a 
man named "Tiger." Pierre pulls 
a crumpled cigaret from his mouth, 
and waits a moment. Tiger is 
deciding whether to buy a watch-
band; Lucky Pierre has already 
decided. 
"You see the label on the back?" 
Pierre flips a leather watchband and 
shows the gold lettering: Speidel's. 
"You recognize the name? It's 
the best." 
"Well, what. do you want for it?" 
"Three dollars." 
"Christ, I can get it in the store 
for that much." 
"Just a minute, young man. This 
must be your first time here." He 
presses a hand on Tiger's shoulder 
that keeps him from leaving. Pierre 
is good with his hands; he knows 
how to control a man's arm, how 
to direct a woman's hand to the 
bracelet she wants. Lucky Pierre 
looks around, moves closer. "Give 
me a dollar for it," he mutters and 
shoves the watchband in Tiger's 
pocket. Tiger pulls it out, Pierre 
shoves it in, in and out it goes, 
Pierre saying, "Here, I want you 
to have it, I want you to be happy, 
am I allowed to make you happy?" 
By the time he gets his change, 
Tiger is clutching the Speidel 
watchband like a little boy who is 
so pleased With his new toy that 
he is almost embarrassed. 
Lucky Pierre slowly sips his coffee . 
He chats with the woman selling 
clean junk, quality junk, lots 
of good junk, cheap. It's going 
to be a good day. 
Ten o'clock is the time Lucky 
Pierre begins to click. 
" Here we go, here we go," Pierre 
starts off, "this is what I'm really 
going to do. Let me give something 
away." Pierre jumps on the 
counter and flings combs, scotch 
tape, key rings into the crowd. 
"I don't care where I throw it; 
I am entitled to do what I want. 
As I said before, my boss is in 
Florida and I'm here catching _a 
cold. He says, Pierre, advertise 
for. me, give it away, throw it 
away, go crazy." A crowd moves 
in. 
"Now. Who here has enough 
trust in Lucky Pierre to give ten 
cents for a paper bag? It's 
absolutely empty, nothing but air." 
He rips the bag in four pieces and 
throws it in the air. 


"But, I promise you that before 
you leave, that bag will be full of 
cookies." Lucky Pierre stops, 
assesses the crowd. "Okay folks, 
close in now, I need ten bags to be· 
legal." Pierre begins to fill the 
cookie bags with his piles of 
cheap merchandise, hitting all the 
~s with a few items. 
"Okay, ladies and gentleman, how 
many here have the confidence to 
say, Pierre, I will give you a dollar 
and a half for this box?" The crowd 
watches the green and red box; no 
one raises his hand. Pierre stops and 
takes a breath. "Give me a will to 
go on, my friends, a teeny will to 
go on." 
One man takes the chance. Pierre 
puts his hand on the man's shoulder: 
"Open it, young man and tell me 
if you're satisfied. Here it is, ladies 
and gentlemen, a $6.50 boy's shirt. 
And I'll tell you what, here is 
your fifty cents back, I only want 
a dollar. That's for having 
confidence in Lucky Pierre. As 
I said, I go crazy giving things 
away. Here, open your bags, I'm 
going to full your cookie bags. 
Here we go, here we go, here we 
absolutely go." 



**The Dahl Report Was Not the First**
**Author: Vicki C. Jackson**
**Page number(s): 9**

THE DAHL REPORT WAS NOT THE FIRST 
by Vicki C. Jackson 
Of the ten und~rgraduates present 
at a recent meeting of a residential 
college education committee, five 
were freshmen coerced into attend-
ing by their counselors. Discussion 
was strained. When the college 
Master asked, '·'What would you 
like to learn that you cannot learn 
at Yale right now?" the freshmen 
as well as most of the upper-
classmen had nothing to say. They 
were surprisingly incapable of 
dealing with a faculty member's 
suggestion that the broad politic.al 
and educational implications of 
the college seminar program be 
considered. 
Four years ago, at the inception 
of the Hall seminar program, such 
a display of disinterest would have 
been inconceivable. Student 
impatience with the subjects, 
methods, and processes of education 
at Yale complemented and drew 
strength from their anger and 
involvement with national political 
events. 
But, earlier in the sixties, the 
world had been less turbulent, and 
Yale students had been less 
critical of their university. Educa-
tional decision-making was the do-
main of faculty committees which 
at most informally consulted 
student leaders. Curricular and 
programmatic changes added to 
the standard Yale program numerous 
"options," open to a select few, 
but genuine alternatives--courses of 
learning significantly diverse yet 
equally accessible and legitimate--
were practically nonexistent. 
Student desires for new learning 
situations, and doubts as to the 
concept of degree requirements, 
gave the word "alternative" an 
increasingly positive connotation. 
Enthusiasm and critical thinking 
ran high; clarity of meaning 
suffered. For some, the cry for 
alternative meant that present 
educational, political, and social 
situations were so awful that any 
change represented a positive 
alternative. For others, the new 
alternative meant a new system of 
education based on different 
assumptions. And for some, 
"alternative" was in itself a system: 
education at Yale should consist 
of several equally legitimate and 
unique courses of learning available 
on a non-preferential basis to all 
students. 
Student participation in 
University: governance became 
linked, emotionally if not logic-
ally, to the rising theme of the 
new alternative. The exclusion of 
affected parties from the formal 
decision-making proces~, students 
argued, led to failures and inade-
quacies in Yale's education. The 
addition of the term "participation" 
completed the paradigm of 
reform, and participation, like 
alternative, lost its neutral meaning. 
The emphasis placed on the positive 
nature and impact of alternatives 
and participation created an 
atmosphere which lasted from the 
mid-60's to 1970 and in which 
numerous, substantive changes 
occurred in Yale education. 
Historically, two circumstances 
set the tone and parameters of 
educational reform at Yale. First, 
there has always been and still 
remains a distinctive Yale education 
whose very boundaries are suggested 
by the optional and exclusive nature 
of the special programs available. 
Second, for most of Yale's history, 
the faculty has both formulated and 
initiated educational philosophy and 
change. Between 1884 and 1945, 
with much tinkering and swinging to 
extremes, the faculty evolved the 
three-part concept of a liberal arts 
education that prevailed unchanged 
until the 1960's and that even today 
is the basis of the standard Yale 
education. 
Professor William Graham Sumner 
led the battle which resulted in Yale's 
reluctant surrender of a system of 
totally required course selection. 
Beginning in 1884, Y alies could elect 
some of their courses, although group 
requirements were retained to 
prevent "utter chaos." Creation of 
the separate departments of study in 
the Reorganization fo 1919 lay the 
ground for the requirement of the 
t:iK<dergraduate major, formalized by 
the faculty in the early 1930's. By 
the end of the following decade 
the Course of Study Committee spoke 
for the faculty in describing the 
liberal arts education as a balance 
between breadth, concentration, and 
election. 
In 1952 the national media hailed 
the Yale College faculty Report on 
General Education for its "revolution-
ary" British approach to American 
higher education. In seeking to 
increase the intellectual content of 
education and foster greater student 
independence, the report recommended 
a two-year period of guided indepen-
dent work with neither classes exams 
nor grades. This proposal thre~tened ' 
to undermine the departmental auth-
ority and vitiate the power and 
control that the faculty exercised in 
specific courses. The proposal died 
in committee. 
Ten years later, a faculty committee, 
appointed by the President to 
reevaluate the Common Freshman year 
program then in effect envisioned an 
innovative but less fundamental 
remaking of Yale. Nearly all their 
proposals were adopted and the 
freshmen, physically isolated by 
their residence on the Old Campus had 
also previously been treated as a 
separate administrative unit within 
the University. Now, the separate 
freshman course book was discontinued 
and the position of Dean of Freshman ' 
was abolished. At the same time the 
position of college dean was estab-
lished. 
Beginning in the spring of 1965, a 
combination of rlsing studen"t -interest 
in educational issues and several 
sweeping policy changes made by the 
faculty generated a momentum that 
made it possible for radical change 
to take place. The Senior Advisory 
Board. an elected body of 
popular but apathetic and inef-
ficient seniors, decided that a 
Board appointed by Adminis-
tration and college officials and 
former SAB members would be 
more committed and hence 
more effective. The newly 
appointed Board soon had a 
hot issue on their hands when 
Yale refused to grant tenure 
to Richard Bernstein, a popular 
member of the philosophy 
department. Two weeks of 
student protest followed, 
including a 72-hour vigil in 
front of Woodbridge Hall. 
Bernstein was not reappointed, 
but a committee, chaired by 
Professor Robert Dahl, was 
established to investigate 
teachiug and tenure at Yale. 
As a result of the first Dahl 
report, which affirmed present 
standards of scholarship but 
suggested the setting of minimum 
standards of teaching competence 
for permanent appointments, 
parallel student and faculty 
committees on teaching were 
created. In addition, the faculty 
approved a proposal suggested by 
the SAB, providing for undergrad-
uate advisory committees on 
curriculum within the departments. 
Also in 1965, before the SAB had 
prepared a formal report on the 
subject, the Yale faculty assumed 
the initiative and overturned the 
system of group distributional 
requirements in effect since the 
first decade of the century. Dis-
tressed by undue emphasis on dis-
tribution at the expense of special-
ization, and disturbed by the poor 
quality of science courses offered 
to non-s<'·;mtists, Dean Georges 
May requested that the Co~ of 
Study Committee and an informal 
group of science professors reevalu-
ate distributional requirements. After 
consulting with the SAB, the Course 
of Study Committee-recom-
mended the abandonment of all 
subject matter requirements and 
thPir replacement with the guide-
lines still in use. The support of 
prestigious faculty for the proposal 
guaranteed its adoption. 
During the following year, the 
Course of Study Committee under 
some pressure from students and the 
SAB, reevaluated grades at Yale. 
(continued on page 16) 



**Title: FULBRIGHT'S CIRCLE**
**Author: Daniel Yergin**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Bill Fulbright has suffered for 
some time from a Cassandra complex," 
said a Senatorial colleague of the 
Chairman of the Foreign Relations 
Committee. With reason enough, 
for Fulbright has spent more than a 
decade warning of the dangers that 
come from the arrogance of power. 
In 1961 he advised John Kennedy 
against the Bay of Pigs invasion. 
Throughout 1965 and 1966 he 
warned Lyndon Johnson not to 
escalate the Vietnam War--and was 
rewarded with whispered rumors 
about his mental balance. 

But on one occasion, while 
Fulbright's advice was good, his 
prophecy was wrong. One pleasant 
spring afternoon in 1969, he went to 
the White House for an amiable 
two-hour discussion with Richard 
Nixon and Henry Kissinger. He 
respectfully suggested to the 
President that the 1968 election had 
given him a mandate to seek a 
compromise in Vietnam, withdraw 
American troops, and leave Vietnam's 
internal problems to the Vietnamese. 
He cautioned against confusing US 
interests with those of the Saigon 
regime, and warned against ~e 
"siren song" of those Amencan 
strategists who wanted to tum the 
last corner--only "to lure the United 
States into a deeper and more 
devastating war." And he advised, 
urged, even pleaded, that the 
President act before he became a 
prisoner of events. 

Then came the pleasant prophecy. 
"U you stop the war," he said, "which 
is what people expect, you can do 
almost anything else and be re-elected. 
The people will be that grateful to 
you." 

The President smiled. A Nixon 
smile. "That's what I'm going to do." 

Nixon did not follow Fulbright's 
advice. He did not end the war; indeed, 
he has made it even more terrible. Yet, 
like a matinee magician, he has given 
the appearance of peace, and that has 
been enough to win the people's 
gratitude in this quirky political year. 
Meanwhile, President-Chairman 
relations have fallen to just about where 
they were under Johnson, below freezing. 
"Except in the line of official duty," 
said Fulbright with some acidity, "he 
doesn't see me now." 

"America may be coming to the 
close of a circle," Fulbright recently 
wrote. Certainly Fulbright has closed his 
quarter-century circle--from the powerless 
critic to powerful insider to powerless 
critic. As chairman of the Foreign 
Relations Committee he in fact wields 
Daniel Yergin, Class of 1968, was 
a founding-editor of The New 
Journal. He is currently writing 
a Ph. D. thesis for Cambridge 
University on the early years of 
the Cold War. He has 
contributed to the New York Times 
Magazine, New York Magazine, and 
the Yale Review. 
only influence, not power; yet despite 
an almost sure rank among history's 
greatest Senators, his influence is at 
its lowest ebb. It is evident in his 
manner. He tires more easily, shows 
boredom, and is more openly irritated. 

Indeed, Fulbright is a lonely, 
isolated figure, respected but not 
popular in his chamber. Intellectually, 
he is a Woodrow Wilson, alive and well 
in a world of Cold Warriors and would-be 
Metternichs. Yet--and this is his 
paradox--long-time observers think that 
he has never been more creative, that 
never has he spoken with greater 
urgency. 

Though today Fulbright may sound 
like a Cassandra, there is also something 
of the converted sinner about him. The 
label 'dove' is out-of-date. He has gone 
through a transformation so thorough 
that he rejects the entire course of 
postwar US foreign policy, and thus 
rejects much of his own past. Men do 
not normally change their ideas in 
their 60's, but Fulbright now operates 
on a new set of assumptions, 
fundamentally different from those 
which guided him ten years ago. 

To fathom the Senator from 
Arkansas, however, is no easy thing. 
He is a complicated man, marked by 
contradictions on every level--a searing 
sarcasm and a courtly manner; long 
digressions on points that interest 
him in hearings, and yet impatience 
and even condescension toward those 
whom he considers dim; intense 
curiosity and a low boredom threshold; 
becoming modesty and a peacock's 
pride; a deep and wide-ranging intellect 
and yet a peevish tum; humanitarianism 
on a global scale and a slim civil 
rights record; fierce bursts of energy 
and periods of moodiness, bordering 
on depression; a sometimes wry, 
sometimes mocking cynicism and yet 
high-flying idealism; conservatism 
about the limits of human capabilities 
yet utopianism about international 
organization. And finally, arrogance 
and self doubt. 

He evokes wildly contradictory 
responses in people. One of Johnson's 
State Department people: "Fulbright 
is an embittered, almost wild man, 
without a rudder." Stuart Symington: 
"Courage is part of the man's 
character." A former National 
Security Council member: "You can 
fault him for a number of things--
tactical judgment, ego, absorption in 
trivia--but I doubt you could tmd a 
more gifted man to run any institution 
in our government!' A fellow 
Senator: "Fulbright is sometimes 
his own worst enemy." 

Yet one finds a consistent evolution 
in his thought, begirming with the 
sober critiques in Old Myths and 
New Realities in 1964 and The 
Arrogance of Power in 1966, and 
culminating in a startling new book 
called The Crippled Giant. It is 
startling because it amounts to an 
obituaiy for the Cold War, a 
complef.e rejection of the conventional 
wisdom. Fulbright declares that the 
United States must share with the 
Soviet Union some apportionment of 
blame for the Cold War. 

"Change," he writes, "has come not 
from wisdom but from disaster." He 
suggests that the American public and 
its leaders, including one J. William 
.Fulbright, have gotten it wrong, not 
completely perhaps, but wrong 
enough to make way for Vietnam and 
other potential disasters. We misunder-
stood the men--and the minds of the 
men--in Moscow, Peking and Indochina. 
We decided without real evidence 
that they were part of a giant 
international revolutionary conspiracy, 
and failed to observe that they were 
also nationalists. We set off on a universal 
crusade, all too often military in form, 
called "containment." 

"I suspect too,, the Senator writes, 
"if Khrushchev and Mao and Ho had 
not had the name of 'Communist,' we 
might have recognized them as men we 
could respect: tough and sometimes 
ruthless, but patriots nonetheless, 
committed to the well-being of their own 
people." Certainly, we have accepted 
lesser lights like Franco, Salazar, Yayha 
Khan, the Greek Colonels and numerous 
dim Latin American luminaries into the 
firmament of the Free World. 

To reach the Senator, you pass through 
an outer office decorated with photographs 
of Fulbright and Johnson in earnest 
conversation, with inked captions by LBJ 
in chronological order: "To J. William 
Fulbright, than whom there is no better"; 
"To Bill Fulbright, who listens--maybe-
perhaps"; "To Bill. I can see I haven't 
been very persuasive." An aide later 
explained that Fulbright has probably 
forgotten the photos are there. 

Then down a corridor lined with cartoon 
originals until, at last, into his office-the 
Senator, occasionally sipping ice water and 
smoking cigarettes, began talking about 
the evolution of his ideas. The blinds were 
drawn in such a way that the shadows 
fell across Fulbright, reminding you of a 
country lawyer's office on Main Street on 
a warm, lazy afternoon. Fulbright was 
tense, upset and exasperated by the further 
escalation of the air war. His face tends 
toward gauntness, so that his ears seem 
to droop away from his head. His 
clothes in this warm weather were those 
that only a banker or a statesman would 
feel constrained to wear--black, sober, 
responsible, with a vest and watchchain. 
But it is the voice that catches you, an 
instrument he plays for effect-resonant 
in tone, varying in speed, courtly in 
marmer, all wrapped for delivery in a 
rich Arkansas accent. 

"Well, it would be a very odd thing if 
I didn't change my views in the light of 
new knowledge," he said, responding to 
a question about the frequent charge 
that he is inconsistent. "It isn't so much 
that you change your views relative to 
certain facts-it's that new facts, new 
elements appear." 

Fulbright has discovered these new 
elements in hearings, formerly classified 
papers, memoirs, and in the works of 
revisionist historians. 

Yet as he talked, Fulbright was 
careful to qualify and requalify his 
judgments. On the one hand, Stalin 
was a "very ominous character"; on the 
other, Russia's "very traumatic 
experience in World War II gave some 
justification for fearing a resurgent 
Germany." 

Fulbright's own involvement in 
foreign affairs goes back to the middle 
of World War II when, as a freshman 
representative, he wrote a one-sentence-· 
long resolution, bearing his name, in 
which the House put itself on record 
in favor of US membership in a 
postwar UN. With this resolution safely 
tucked in his hip pocket, Secretary 
of State Cordell Hull finally felt 
confident enough, at age 72, to take 
his first airplane trip to Moscow to 
begin talking about founding the UN 
with the British and Russians. After 
the war, Fulbright authored the 
legislation setting up the international 
scholarship p~:ogram bearing his name. 
Also in late 1945 Fulbright spoke 
out in one of the most thoughtful 
critiques of Truman's foreign policy. 
"We have already fallen to quarreling 
with Russia, like two big dogs chewing 
on a bone ... To be tough or to 
be soft, toward a nation is not a 
policy. Our objectives ... should be to 
obtain their assistance in the creation 
of a bona {ide organization based 
upon law." 

By the spring of 1946, subject to the 
same pressures that quieted other critics, 
Fulbright had subscribed to the Cold 
War consensus that guided US policy--
and stilled dissent-until the late 
1960's. In May 1946, he asked in a 
speech: "Is it the purpose of Russia 
to dominate the world through a 
subtle combination of infiltration and 
force?" Along with the rest of the 
foreign policy caste, he answered 'yes.' 

Now sitting in his office and as 
though recalling that very speech, he 
said, "After World War II, we were sold 
on the idea that Stalin was out to 
dominate the world. I didn't have the 
knowledge or foresight to make a 
judgment at the time. I didn't know 
about Ho 's letters to Washington--or 
that they were ignored. Very few people 
did make the right judgment. Henry 
Wallace sensed it, he had a feeling 
about it, but he was ridiculed for 
being a visionary, an appeaser, 
unrealistic. 

"The crux of the problem was 
the generalization of the Truman 
Doctrine. It changed from a 
rescue operation for Greece in 
1947 into an ideological crusade. 
It created the attitude, the state 
of mind, that later led to Viet 
Nam." Again the qualification. 
"That was most unfortunate. 
But I'm not trying to say that 
Mr. Truman or Mr. Acheson is 
to blame. Judging it at the time, 
I'm not saying that I or anybody 
else would have been much 
better." 

In 1959, Majority Leader 
Lyndon Johnson finally per-
suaded Theodore Green, the 
91-year-old, somewhat deaf and 
often sleepy chairman of the 
foreign relations committee, 
to step aside. Fulbright became 
the committee's new chairman. 
He and Johnson had a mutual 
admiration society going. Ful-
bright remarked of President-
elect Kennedy: "He'll be as 
good a President as he makes use 
of Lyndon Johnson's political 
genius." Johnson in turn looked 
on him, perhaps a bit enviously, 
as a Southern·style intellectual 
and respected his independence. 
Kennedy, at Johnson's fervent 
urging, had considered Fulbright--
who was not sure he really 
wanted the job--as his first 
choice for Secretary of State; 
but Robert Kennedy, fearing 
that Fulbright's backbench 
support of the Southern anti-
civil rights bloc in Congress 
would alienate new African 
nations, talked his brother out of 
it. 

Civil rights has been Ful-
bright's famous flaw. During the 
late 1950's and early 1960's, he 
never supported civil rights leg-
islation. The reply has always 
been that, to be a statesman, you 
must get re-elected, and you don't 
get re-elected--or at least didn't--
in Arkansas by championing 
civil rights. 

Today Fulbright feels that the 
Kennedy policies, as much as 
those of Eisenhower, aggravated 
the Cold War, for he thinks the 
Russians were more intent on 
"businesslike relations" than we 
ever believed. He has a special 
nostalgia for Khrushchev, who he 
says built a golf course in the 
Crimea in preparation for 
the visit Eisenhower did not make 
in 1960. "In looking back on 
him," Fulbright recalled, "from 
various things he said, from when 
he was over here, it seems to me 
that he was hoping in his rather 
blunt way to do constructive 
business with us--to normalize 
relations." 

The Senator now believes that 
Khrushchev's "We will bury you" 
did refer to economic competi-
tion; that the "wars of national 
liberation," which did so much to 
gear up the Kennedy action-intel-
lectuals for Vietnam, may have 
been a verbal device, targeted for 
Peking; that the missiles in Cuba 
may have had more to do with 
Khrushchev's troubles with the 
Soviet military than with a 
c;iesire to immolate the US. 

The change began to come for 
Fulbright in 1964 and 1965, when 
he started to lose confidence in 
the men, institutions and policies 
with which he had identified. His 
expectations for the Johnson 
Presidency had been great--indeed, 
he later said he looked forward to


**Title: Fulbright**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
1 
was Fulbright's acceptance, along 
with most everybody else, that 
Olina was an imperialist power, 
intent on expansion. 
rass him. But the September speech 
was the breaking point." 
13/The New Journal/October 30, 1972 
"He used to listen," said Ful-
bright of Johnson, " but in evalua-
ting my advice against that of his 
chief advisers, McNamara and 
Rusk, he decided that they 
knew the facts." 
The open break carne over the 
Dominican Republic in 1965. 
The Administration claimed that 
American nationals were endan-
gered, that a Communist uprising 
was at the core of the civil strife. 
A careful Foreign Relations 
Committee study, however, con-
vinced Fulbright that the Adminis-
tration had used a phony Red 
Scare to justify both to itself and 
to the country an unjl~stifiable 
intervention. On September 15, 
1965, he rose in the Senate: "The 
Administration acted on the 
premise that the revolution was 
controlled by communists--a 
premise which it failed to estab-
lish at the time and has not 
established since." 
" Mr. Johnson never forgave me " 
said Fulbright. "After that, we 
' 
never had a private meeting. 
Never again was I consulted." A 
pained little smile crossed his fa<;e. 
"Of course, when I look back on 
it, I wasn't ever really consulted in 
the sense tl1at he was ever interested 
in what I had to say. He had made 
up his mind already. He was 
trying to keep me within bounds, 
so I wouldn't take issue and em bar-
35 Broadway 
New Haven 
562-1765


This event solidified his growing 
doubts about the whole course of 
US policy. By the time of the 1966 
Vietnam hearings, he Wil& already 
a dove. Johnson clearly put 
Fulbright at the top among "Nervous 
Nellies." In private, the President 
accused Fulbright of everything . 
from disloyalty, to being "unable 
to park his bicycle straight," to 
outright racism. "The President 
used to say that Fulbright had a 
little old racial problem--he didn't 
think little yellow people cared as 
much for Freedom as white folks " 
recalled a former high State 
Department official. 

Fulbright, who never savored the 
role of Congressional crank, was 
upset by innuendoes in Johnson's 
Washington that his dissent was a 
gymptom of abnormal psychology--
so upset in fact that he twice 
arranged hearings on the interaction 
of psychology and international 
politics. "People ridiculed the whole 
idea," he said, "but they proved to 
be two of the most interesting series 
we've ever had. I was very interested 
myself, be<;ause I've often 
wondered why I take a different 
view from others." 

" It's not for me to be a Freud" 
he added, but he did trace his 
current role back to his family and 
childhood. "There was nothing in 
my background to give me the 
same kind of egotism--I'm not sure 
that's the right word, it may be 
offensive--as Lyndon Johnson." He 
emphasized the importance of his 
father's death when he was 18. 
"He left six children and my poor 
mother. We thought we were going 
to the poorhouse. I was young, 
and we were distracted, and I 
~earned humility--if you want to 
call it that. I wasn't prepared to be 
pushing people around. I was trying 
to survive." 

. This back~ounc} has made Fulbright 
mde~ndent--:ntellectually, financially, 
emot10nally--all his life. "The 
combination of all these types of 
things," he said, "gives you a differ-
ent attitude, a different approach 
under certain circumstances. I 
would react differently from Johnson--
and Nixon. It was much more difficult 
for Mr. Johnson to accept what he 
would interpret as a defeat than for 
me. It's the background against which 
you make judgments, without being 
conscious of it." 

He reflected for a moment. "I 
remember a curious experience." He 
described a White House meeting in 
February, 1965, when the decision to 
escalate the bombing was taken. Only 
Senator Mike Mansfield and he took 
issue. "I didn't have any particular 
reason for dissenting, for disagreeing. 
I had no intelligence reports." He said 
that wiijl a certain disdain. "It just 
seemed the wrong thing to do. It 
was purely instinctive." 

" There's still the underlying 
feeling that it is our responsibility 
to build up what they call a 
"structur~ for ~ace"--not unlike 
OGJ~~~U'll W~fll~ 
**Title: Spring Bombs, Spring Thunder**
**Author: Lawrence Lifschultz**
**Page number(s): 14**

Little has been said and even less 
written about the duet of the Yale 
Daily News and Kingman Brewster 
last May. Yet, five months later its 
importance for study and discussion 
remains undiminished. Each of us 
involved in actions of struggle against 
the war last spring must examine what 
effect our ow n behavior has had on 
the magnitude of American aggression 
during the past summer and the present 
fall. 

On Friday, May 12, 1972, the Yale 
Daily News published a carefully 
worded statement in which Kingman 
Brewster pledged to suspend and 
possibly expel any student involved 
in militant demonstrations against 
William Rogers, Nixon's Secretary 
of State, during a visit planned for the 
following Monday night. That 
afternoon a t urbulent confrontation 
developed at the News offices 
between twenty members of the New 
Haven Air War Collective and four 
editors representing the .Vews --
~latthew Coles, Charles Cuneo. 
John Geesman, and l\Iichael Spencer. 
Members of the Collective accused 
the News editors of abetting 
Brewster's move to establish an 
atmosphere of threat and intimidation 
over the University community, in 
particular against anti-war forces. 
They were specifically angered by the 
News' ·failure to print in th eir 
Friday edition a statement entitled 
"The People Want Rogers."' The 
om1tted statement described the 
unprecedented action of the Yale 
Political Union, Rogers· host 
orgamzation , to close its membership 
lists a month and a half before the 
planned visit of Rogers. The denial 
of access to the orgamzation had 
begun pnor to the Westmoreland 
mcident and despite objections that 
continued throughout the spring. 
Collective members mamtained that 
the Political Union was using a Yale 
building without payment of rent 
to hold a closed meetmg of a closed 
society. The closing of member-
ship lists cannot easily be reconciled 
with Brewster's reference to the 
mt-eting as "an authorized 
University activity." In the unpub-
lished statement the Collective 
quest10ned the policy of the 
University administration to allow 
the use of Yale buildings by 
exclusive organizations for exclusive 
meetmgs. 

According to one Collective 
member. who had been denied 
ac<:ess to the Political Union. 
.. Brewster·s position on ·free speech· 
was transformed into a defense of 
the Political Union ·s denial of 
access into its organizatiOn. There 
is no • free speech· if people are 
not free to hear or are not given 
the right of access.·· 

Lawrence Lifschultz is a m em ber 
of the Yale Committee of Concerned 
Asian Scholars and participated in 
the even ts of last spring as a member 
of the New Haven A ir War Collective. 

The conflict at the News office 
sharpened when Collective members 
demanded that editors Coles, Cuneo, 
Geesman, and Spencer publish an 
extra edition prior to Rogers' 
anticipated arrival Monday evening. 
Due to their end-of-the-year 
schedule, the News had no plans 
to r un an edition unt il after Rogers' 
visit. The Collective maintained 
that the News had a responsi-
bility to the community, par-
ticularly to the several h undred 
people who would be putting 
their academic careers on the line 
come Monday. By publishing Brew-
ster's edict alone the paper had 
played a crucial political function 
in creating the mood of intimida-
tion. The people who faced 
expulsion wanted their position to 
be known and fully understood 
by all the students and faculty--
for it is from such understanding 
that defense and support would arise. 

At that point, the News editors 
refused to publish an e1>."tra edition. 
Their reasons and their subsequent 
retreat raise profound questions 
concerning the idea of a "free press·· 
in a capitalist society. The editors 
raised two issues to explain their 
unwillingness to run an extra 
edition: first, it was technically 
impossible since their special typist 
would be unavailable over the 
weekend; and second, the News 
would be financially incapable of 
covering the costs of an "extra. ·• 
One of the Collective members with 
the necessary "electronic tape" 
typing skill offered his service. The 
News refused. The Collective 
offered to purchase an ad to cover 
the cost of the edition. The News 
refused once again. 

The Collecttve demanded a better 
explanation for the News' continued 
refusal. Coles, Cuneo, Geesman, 
and Spencer asked to caucus in 
private. They withdrew and after 
fifteen minutes announced that they 
would publish the "extra" prior to 
Rogers' visit contingent on for mal 
consultation with their business 
manager and a few staff members. 
The News agreed to include the 
"People Want Rogers" statement and 
other critiques of Brewster's 
•·principled'' position. Moreover, they 
said to the group that technical 
problems would be overcome by the 
News itself. 

One Collective member interviewed 
this fall recalled, smiling, ·'You know, 
it's like the Chinese say. Liu Shao 
Chi always said that 'technical and 
economic" matters are the determining 
factor, while Mao maintained that in 
reality 'politics· is always in command. 
Well, we saw through the technical 
obstacles raised by the News editors 
to the essence of the problem-the 
refusal to prin t in reality was a 
political position . For a moment it 
was like in Shanghai in 1967 when the 
Red Guards seized control of 
People's Daily. The di(ference, of 
course, is that the Yale Daily News 
has never been a people 's daily." 
14/The New Journal/October 30, 1972 

Leaving the matter of Shanghai 
aside, there still remain a host of 
wider political questions to be asked. 
Why was it that on Friday May 12th 
the News published Brewster's 
position alone and failed to publish 
.1 critical response? The News not 
only had a copy of the statement 
in question but had already given 
verbal assurance that th ey would 
publish it in the Frid ay paper. 
Perhaps it did not appear because it 
questioned Brewster 's statement on 
too basic a level. And why did t he 
News so firmly resist the appeal by 
those willing to stand up to the 
expulsion threat who only wished to 
critique the theory of the hammer 
before it was lowered? 

Politics is the only plausible answer. 
The News editors consistently argued 
that "technical" considerations held 
them back , all the time denying their 
political prejudices. They were 
"objective journalists." Actually, there 
is no more objectivity in the political 
position of the News than there is in 
the New York Times which daily 
refers to the "communist enemy,., 
"enemy forces, .. "Vietcong,"' 
and "North Vietnam." The News 
played the Brewster statement and the 
Rogers appearance the way it did 
because it was predisposed to do so. 

As is well known by now, Rogers 
cancelled his appearance in New Haven 
and instead the Political Union 
presented the A. Whitney Griswold 
award for statesmanship to him in 
Washington this past summer. Whether 
or not Brewster actually knew of 
Rogers' pending cancellation prior to 
the public announcemen t, remains 
unclear. If, on the 12th , Brewster 
did not know that Rogers had 
cancelled, he is a lucky man the 
Secretary of State did not come. 

Still, it is not implausible that 
Brewster may have known th at 
Rogers would not sh ow, but went 
ahead anyway and issues h is May 12th 
"suspension and expulsion" 
statement. In so doing he would 
have neatly taken care of the 
criticism coming from his righ t 
which, personified by Eugene V. 
Debbs Rostow, had poured forth 
fire since the Westmoreland incident. 
Now Brewster had taken the 
ultimate stand of firmness against the 
insurrectionists. 

Yet, if Brewster knew that Rogers 
would not come, he also knew he 
would not have to carry out his 
threat. He would not have to face 
the "left" at Yale which had grown 
to substantial proportions following 
)lixon 's carpet bombing of Haiphong 
on April 16th and his later mining 
of Vietnamese harbors. It would 
have been an ugly scene for Kingman 
Brewster on May 15th in the streets 
outside Sprague Hall. Then the 
beneficent Kingman Brewster would 
have had an untold number of 
·'idealistic" but suspended students 
on his hands. U Brewster was aware 
for people 
who walk on 
this earth ... 
yearn for the earth 
that lies buried 
beneath the city. 
pains caused by our 
hard-surfaced city. 
If you've wal ked 
barefoot on sand or 
soil you know how 
great it is. Your 
heels sink low and 
your feet embrace 
the earth. Then you 
put on your shoes, 
return to the city, 
and become another 
concrete fighter .. . 
but the concrete 
always wins. You 
Walking Shoes: S34 t o $40. 
U .S. Patent No. 3305947 
The Earth Shoe is 
the first shoe in 
history with the heel 
lower than the sole .. . 
this helps return you 
to nature though 
you are forced to live 
in a cement-coated 
world. The Earth 
Shoe's patented 
design gently guides 
you to a more erect 
and graceful walk, 
and reduces fatigue 
and the aches and 
For m en and women 
in shoes, sandals 
and sabots. 
From $23.50 to $40. 
Brochure available. 
&l&artti 
~shoe 
59 Broadway (above 
Y ork Square Cinema) 
ns-3592 



**Title: In Comment (Continued)**
**Page number(s): 15**

that Rogers would not show and 
still went ahead with issuing his 
statement, then his political 
acumen for dealing with his 
right wing must be recognized. 

The final irony to the story 
still hasn't been told. When it 
became known that Rogers would 
not come, the New Haven Air 
War Collective, in recognition 
of the "impossible" obstaCles 
faced by the News editors, with-
drew its request for the "extra" 
edition. To the Collective's 
surprise, an "extra" of the Yale 
Daily News appeared on Monday 
morning anyway. It did not 
carry "The People Want Rogers" 
statement--or any mention of the 
Friday conflict at the News 
office. Even in retrospect, the 
oldest college daily had not found 
this news fit to print. The lead 
article was about none other than 
Kingman Brewster. Saturday he 
had gone on television and asked 
the people of New Haven to go 
to Washington and "lobby" 
against the war. "Objectively 
speaking," noted one Collective 
member, "Kingman Brewst~r 
didn't even offer to buy an ad in 
the News to pay for the cost of 
the extra edition." 
---
In the last decade various 
forms of opposition to the 
Vietnam war have developed. In 
this respect, it should be clearly 
understood that the editors of 
the News--Coles, Geesman, 
Cuneo, and Spencer--are all 
opposed to American involve-
ment in Vietnam. So is Kingman 
Brewster. Then what was all the 
·trouble about last April and May? 
Why were opponents of the war 
poised against each other? 

In the tenth year of our direct 
involvement in Vietnam, in the 
twentieth year since our support 
for France's reoccupation, and 
in the thirtieth year of the Viet-
namese struggle for independence, 
it is time to critically discuss the 
matters that divide those united 
against the war in Vietnam. 

There are two issues involved: 
strategy, and what Ken Mills 
used to call " a fundamental 
difference in world outlook." 

There is no denying that the 
Collective had hoped for a major 
social upheaval in this city and 
in the country. It was hoped 
that the aroused anger of the 
American people and the social 
disruptions causE!d by massive 
protest would be sufficiently 
forceful to throw a real scare into 
the Nixon administration and 
other attendant centers of ruling 
power in America. It was just 
such an upsurge in May 1970 
that forced Nixon to beat a 
hasty retreat from his invasion 
of Cambodia. 

Kingman Brewster and the 
~itors of the News opposed such 
an upheaval. Their position was 
one of moderation. Opposition 
111eant fasting, wearing black 
armbands, holding one-day mora-
toria, or lobbying in Washington. 
That done, all were to return to 
'Classes and take exams. Nixon's 
magnification of "automated 
massacre" did not prevent Yale 
authorities from announcing time 
·and again, "the leniency of 1970 
will not be repeated." 

The division over strategic 
practice among opponents of the 
war is at bottom a very funda-
mental ideological question. 
The Air War Collective maintained 
that only through a sharp upsurge 
of protest from the American 
people and from American stu-
dents in particular would the 
Dictatorship of the American 
Executive effect a retreat. The 
Collective had hoped that this 
University, along with others, 
would have shut down in a 
national student strike until 
Nixon had pulled back on his 
build-up of the air war. Of 
course, neither the strike nor a 
reduction in American bombing 
occurred. 

Brewster and the News op-
posed the strike. To relieve the 
pressure on the University they 
both maintained that at Yale 
"there is no enemy" and thus a 
strike against the University had 
no purpose. The enemy, of 
course, is always elsewhere--never 
before you. This position, how-
ever, belies the fact that in May 
1970 a forceful national stu-
dent strike had real impact in 
checking further .American ag-
gression against the Cam bod ian 
people. 

At issue last spring was the 
question of whether the revolt 
emerging in the country would be 
contained or would develop fur-
ther. It was crucial to various 
political groups, among which 
the News and Brewster must both 
be included, to achieve contain-
ment in the form of a "manage-
able protest". A major upheaval, 
it was said, would only play into 
the hands of the Administration. 

Yet, five months later--following 
a spring, summer and fall of the 
most intense bombing in the his-
tory of mankind--it must be asked 
who really played into whose 
hands. 

Brewster and the News sup-
ported a one-day lobby effort in 
Washington. The tactic was a 
classic one. If it is your institu-
tion the people are threatening 
to strike or disturb, then you 
must deflect them from their 
object. They must be led in a 
different direction; that is, away 
from New Haven and down to 
Washington. 

15/The New Journal/October 30, 1972. 
It would have been different 
if the trip to Washington had 
been part of a national call to 
go to the capital. Neither 
Brewster nor the News were 
prepared to make such a call. 
To do so might have created a 
mushrooming effect. This 
clearly had to be avoided. In-
stead, a few buses just for New 
Haveners rolled down to D.C. 
and rolled back. Tt son h~rl hP.P.n 
nice and manageable. And very 
soon all returned to normal ex-
cept for the Vietnamese. 

These differences in strategic 
. practice are at bottom important 
ideological issues. There is a 
clear difference between being 
anti-the-Vietnam war and being 
anti-imperialist. While both 
·Brewster and the News may be 
the former, they are certainly not 
the latter. 

Brewster in particular has not 
broken with the ideology of 
America's World Empire. Last 
spring he stood out as a seeming-
ly tortured enigma who privately 
considered the possibility of 
following the president of Am-
herst College in civil disobedience, 
while publicly threatening to 
expel any student who might 
break the "law." He stands in 
the eye of such a contradiction 
because he has not broken fun-
dame~tally with the premises 
underlying this country's inter-
national empire. Nor is there 
any reason given his position, 
past practice, and class to expect 
that he ever will make such a 
break. 

It is clear that Brewster has 
not even approached such trans-
formation. He continues to per-
petuate the very mystification 
about America's 'role in the 
world', that has led to so much 
sadness for our own country and 
for the Indochinese. Last April, 
in the same month B-52's bombed 
Haiphong for the first time, 
Brewster wrote the following in 
Foreign Affairs: 

The United States does occupy 
a position of indispensability to 
the security and economy of the 
. rest of the world .. .Any potential 
aggression should be kept on 
notice of what might be called 
our 'exasperation points.' The 
American electorate would react 
explosively to the outrage of 
unambiguous aggression in areas 
where we feel visceral commitment 
by affinity, a territorial commit-
ment by proximity or moral com-
mitment by promise. 

It was enough to have heard 
at the start of the sixties John 
Kennedy say, "To those 
'peoples in the huts and vil-
lages of half the globe struggling 
to break the bonds of mass mis-
ery, we pledge our best efforts 
to help them help themselves." 
It was enough to have heard that 
and then to have watched 
Kennedy set up strategic ham-
lets, schools of counter-insur-
gency, and an Alliance For 
·Progress which was no more than 
an alliance for counterrevolution. 
But it is more than eno-qgh--it 
is too much--in 1972 to hear 
Kingman Brewster speak about 
informing potential aggressors of 
America's "exasperation points." 

:Brewster's position that America 
must stand ready to defend the 
world from aggression is no more 
than an obfuscation for his real 
defense of American hegemony 
in the world. Lastly, Brewster 
writes that the American people 
"would react explosively to the 
.outrage of unambiguous aggres-
sion." We must presume of 
course, that Brewster did not 
·"react explosively" last spring, 
.but instead worked hard to insure 
that no "explosion" would occur, 
because the "unambiguous aggres-
sion" was that of his own country. 

The duet of the Yale Daily News 
News and Kingman Brewster in 
the period of heightened slaughter 
last spring must be studied and 
discussed. It is important for all 
who oppose the war--indeed, who 
oppose the Empire. A deeper 
understanding of questions con-
cerning ideology and strategic 
practice is essential if our coming 
struggle against this war and yet 
unenacted American tragedies is 
to be more effective. In The 
Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis 
Bonaparte, referring to Hegel's 
comment that all facts and per-
sonages of great importance in 
wprld history occur, as it were, 
twice. Marx wrote, "He forgot 
to add; the first time as tragedy, 
the second as farce." Our 
actions in Spring '72 were in-
adequate to stem the new level 
of aggression against the Vietnam-
ese. That is the tragedy. We 
must better inform our practice, 
to avoid the farce that would be 
a greater tragedy. • 



**Title: The Dahl Report was not the first ...**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I .. 
The Dahl Report was not the first ... 
(continued from page 9) 
At that time Yale students were 
graded on a 60-100 scale, and Dean's 
List, percentile ranking, and sundry 
honors were conferred on the basis 
of grade-point average. Several 
incidents finally crystallized 
the almost universal student 
opposition to what was seen as an 
unjustified and pretentiously precise 
system. A 600-person lecture 
course taught by Margaret Mead 
had a class average of 88, ten points 
higher than the Yale 'college average, 
a circumstance which occasioned 
much self-righteous envy among 
those not enrolled. When a 
sociology seminar voted to turn 
in grades of Satisfactory and 
Unsatisfactory, and the 
department balked at the propriety 
of such a grading scheme, the 
professor then reported a grade 
of 100 for each·student. The Yale 
College Dean, refusing to accept 
these grades, argued that they were 
not "credible" to the faculty. 
General disgust with all grades rose 
when it was rumored that the 
Selective Service System would use 
class rank in determining defer-
ments. 

The Yale Daily News exercised 
unexpected leadership in focusing 
student attention on grades. Although 
the SAB and the Student Committee 
on Teaching recommended 
moderate revision of grades to an 
eight-point letter system, the 
Course of Study Committee 
startled many students by proposing 
and gaining faculty approval for 
a four-point Honors, High Pass, Pass, 
Fait system, in effect until this year. 
ln 1967-68 student participation 
increased, inspired by the dramatic 
changes of previous years. As a result 
of pressure from the Student 
Committee on Teaching and the 
Council of Masters, an all-faculty 
committee was appointed to reassess 
the educational potential of the 
residential colleges. Attention 
focused on the "sophomore seminars," 
created in 1952 by a gift from 
Paul Mellon, and which were then 
being used by large departmental 
courses as discussion groups for 
underclassmen. Meanwhile, some 
colleges, resenting the departmental 
exploitation of college resources, 
began giving student-initiated 
non-credit seminars on subjects like 
" Race, Riot, and Poverty." 

The spring of 1969 saw the most 
complete expression of participation 
and alternative at Yale, in the form of 
the Coalition for a New University, a 
movement for radical reform within 
the University. CNU was also the best 
organized student movement 'Yale has 
ever seen. Growing out of a c1ty 
planning seminar on institutional 
change, CNU evolved through weekly 
meetings of undergraduates and 
graduate students, and concerned 
itself with a broad spectrum of Yale 
issues: use of space and architecture, 
the relationship of the University to 
New Haven, quality of teaching, 
college as a community of more than 
scholars and students. It discusses 
the need for attracting more 
"creative types" into the teaching 
and student body and faculty. 
CNU provided an umbrella publica-
tion for articles by individuals and 
groups as diverse as Masters and Yale 
SDS. In addition, it held a four day 
workshop on educational issues at 
Yale in which over half the university 
student population participated in 
one form or another. 
Three key issues emerged from 
CNU's inquiries: access to information, 
participation by students and non-
faculty in govenlance, and the need for 
opportunities for coherent personal 
development in undergraduate educa-
tion. Unfortunately, consideration 
of these rna tters has been side-
tracked in the last few years. 

The advent of coeducation dis-
tracted attention and absorbed 
en~rgy away from the broader 
movement for change. The pres-
ence of "sufficient" women 
somehow came to represent the 
problem of wholeness and commun-
ity at Yale. In addition, the 
lengthy and cumbersome deliber-
ations of the Governance Commis-
sion successfully killed most 
student desire and entp_U$iasm for 
participation in the tedious, 
bureaucratic process of governance 
at Yale. The Governance 
Commission itself proved a crowning 
irony tO the high hopes of the Coalition 
Coalition: rather than creating a 
mechanism for decision-making, 
the CNU had created a commission 
that took two years to study the 
problem before reporting. 

The belief in mass, participatory 
democracy lost broad support 
through its association with the 
Yale-Panther events of spring 1970. 
Student participation on faculty 
~mmittees lost its appeal to 
all but a dedicated and unrepresen-
tative few, and even then general 
interest was commensurately 
weakened. 

Thus, when the Study Group on 
the Future of Yale--the Dahl 
Committee--spent last year con-
sulting the community on their 
complaints and visions of Yale, 
student concern was moderate and 
restrained· in comparison to the 
level of interest years ago. A small 
group of students did meet 
regularly and issue several policy 
reports--for the most part ignored-
to the Dahl Committee, but their 
activities not only had little 
impact but were virtually unknown 
by other concerned students. 

Presumably, the recommendations 
of the Dahl Report will be considered 
by the faculty and its committees 
this year, unless the temporary 
faculty committee appointee over 
the summer to evaluate the 
financial implications of the Report--
puts further consideration out of the 
question. 

In many ways, the Dahl Report 
responds to questions raised by the 
CNU. For the first time, a faculty 
report has seriously considered the 
need for attracting more 
women, and "poets and playwrights" 
into the student body and faculty. 
It recommends the improved use of 
space at Yale to ease the social flow. 
It urges more creative use of existing 
space, within and outside the 
residential colleges. 

The committee's Hall report 
is also threatening. Optional 
programs with limited an~ pref-
erential admissions are subject to 
greater departmental and faculty 
supervil;ion than 1,000 alternative 
courses of study. 
According to the program,.students 
will participate in freshman seminars 
in their major area of inter..est 
and confront questions of 
educational as well as personal de-
velopment. More impo~t, each 
student will design his own program 
of study, without externally 
imposed degree requirements, 
but with the advice a1id approval of 
a Board of Mentors, or faculty 
advisors, within each college. 

In the mentorship program-the 
major educational proposal, and 
in a sense, the key to the whole 
report--it responds boldly to 
the need expressed for "self-defin-
ition of goals, and for tJ:l~ ~e~~l-. 
opment of "moral capabilities With 
which to face a "d~sorienting society." 
Twenty years later, the likeli-
hood seems great that the events 
of 1952 will be repeated. 

The original proposal, instructors 
needed only the approval of a small 
faculty Committee on Teaching in 
one of the residential colleges, but 
this procedure met with substantial 
faculty opposition. The faculty 
amended the program to require all 
seminar instructors to have or obtain 
at least temporary departmental 
appointment, and ruled that college 
seminars had to be approved not 
only by the special Committee but 
also by the Course of Study 
Committee. Now, many college 
seminars function merely as addi-
tional course options to regular de-
partmental programs. 

By 1968 the SAB had succeeded 
in obtaining faculty approval of 
voting student representatives on the 
major faculty committees. 
Moreover, a strengthened belief in 
the value of and necessity for student-
initiated participation was reflected 
in several changes in the SAB itself. 
Its members were once again 
elected, it increased .its membership 
to include juniors, and it began to 
write pamphlets to fellow students 
rather than faculty ~ommittees. 
The SAB started issuing "Guide to 
Yale," written by Derek Shearer, and 
advocating the loophole approach to 
Yale's education: "Learn the 
tricks and you can do whatever you 
want here." The immediate success 
of the student-initiated coeducation 
drive, singlehanqedly engineered and 
foisted on a reluctant administration 
by student Avi Soiffer in the fall of 
1968, created an upsurge in student 
confidence and desire to change Yale. 
Almost anything seemed possible. 
16/The New Journal/October 30, 1972 


The possibility of a dramatic increase in non-departmental majors 
is threatening, especially to 
smaller departments. The elim-
ination of existing "special 
programs"--such as Directed Studies, 
Early Concentration, the Five Year 
B.A. and Scholar of the House--
provided for a well-endowed program 
of seminars, originating in the 
suggestion, on subjects not available 
in standard departmental offerings. 
This proposal created a truly 
alternative system in which any student 
with an idea and a desire to learn 
could initiate a credit-bearing course, 
taught by any qualified individual 
in or outside of Yale College. 

Yet it is unclear exactly what the 
mentorship program is designed to 
accomplish. If its purpose is to 
provide a more rigorous and 
individualized program of purely 
academic instruction, it is difficult 
to see in what way it is an improve-
ment on the present relatively 
ineffective program. If, on the other 
hand, its purpose is to provide a 
structure within which students can 
establish the kind of relationship 
with an older "guide" that will 
give direction to the search for self-
definition, at the same time 
providing the advisor with the kind 
of personal knowledge helpful in 
deciding what the most productive 
learning experiences are for 
individual students, then it is unclear 
that fifteen willing faculty members 
per college can be found who are 
capable of making the kind of 
commitment this would entail. 

It seems possible that students will 
look on this program as an infringe-
ment of their freedom to, in Dahl's 
terms, "treat college as a cafeteria, 
where the courses are chosen hap-
hazardly on the basis of taste and 
willingness to pay or work for the 
student," rather than as a meaning-
ful elaboration of that freedom. 

Yet, even if one were to grant that 
the mentorship program is a 
substantive and potentially liberating 
alternative to the existing 
bureaucracy, the chances are great 
that it will never be implemented. 
Insofar as it might encourage and 
permit a student to fashion a non-
departmental or perhaps non-academic 
course of study, and insofar as it would 
insist that students take the primary 
responsibility for deciding what is 
worth learning, the mentorship program 
represents too great a departure for 
the faculty to support. 



**Title: A Clear Guide ...**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A Clear Guide ... 
(continued from page 5) 
his report ready for faculty consider-
ation by November. He has expressed 
the cautious hope that some of the 
committee's suggestions may be put 
into effect by the 1973-74 academic 
year. 

The Blum committee is not the 
only University planning group that 
has suffered from the deficit 
discrepancy. Controversy generated 
by Yale's financial affairs has also 
.delayed chances for serious 
discussion of the suggestions for 
long-range changes in the academic 
structure of the University set forth 
in the Dahl report. Academic changes 
have been swept aside by more 
pressing financial questions, 
especially those centering on the 
extended semester plan suggested in 
the appendix to the report. Dahl 
and his group are especially 
chagrined by the attention focused 
on the relatively minor appendix to 
the report. "Had the deficit 
question never been mentioned, our 
report would have received more 
serious consideration,., Dahl says. 
As the matter stands, Dahl feels 
that the misprojected deficit 
and the ensuing controversy 
has "discredited the Dahl report 
as a whole." 

Another important, yet less 
tangible, consequen~e of the 
. 
deficit discrepancy 1s the quest1on 
. -·:h _, 
it raises of the administration's 
credibility. As Brewster indicated 
in his September 8 letter to the 
Corporation he feels his own cred-
ibility has been threatened. It re-
mains to be seen just how much of 
the damage is repaired by the 
~port of the Provost. 

The faculty has received an 
annual "crisis report" from the 
Provost each year since 1970, the 
year when austerity measures were 
first put into effect. The faculty 
tended to disregard these reports, 
and there was a certain sentiment 
'among them that the Administration 
was crying "wolf." During the 
_spring of 1972, however, when the 
Administration reported on the 
projected state of the University's 
'financial health during considera-
tion of the extended semester 
proposal, the faculty at last 
began to believe that an emergency 
existed. This partially explains why 
the faculty created the Summer 
Study Committee. 

With the surprising news from 
the Treasurer's Office this fall, 
there was cause for many faculty 
members to believe that the Ad-
ministration had cried " wolf" 
again. Reductions had been made 
in the number of faculty positions 
starting in the year 1970-71, 
reductions that hit the ranks of 
untenured junior faculty 
especially hard, and, in the 
opinion of some faculty members, 
30 waterfront street 
new haven 
lowered the quality of Yale 
teaching. Although the need for 
the faculty cutbacks is apparently 
not mitigated by this year's 
unexpectedly low deficit, the 
effects of a huge deficit that 
never materialized must be 
reckoned with if the Adminis-
tration is to maintain its credi-
bility with the faculty. 

One last damaging effect of 
the deficit affair is the pressure 
heaped, perhaps unfairly, on the 
Treasurer himself. Especially in 
:the press coverage of the deficit 
revelation, there were reports of 
internal politicking and personal 
criticism of those responsible for 
computing the projected deficit. 
There was speculation that 
Brewster's letter to the Corporation 
constituted such a criticism of the 
Treasurer. This speculation over-
dramatized the point of Brewster's 
letter and at the same time 
clouded an already complicated 
issue. Perhaps during the heat of 
the publicized controversy, some 
tension did exist between the 
President and the Treasurer. 
However, Brewster later expressed 
regret that his letter had been 
interpreted as a personal attack on 
Ecklund . Ecklund refused to 
;comment on the tone of the 
letter. 

The budget is predicted by the 
University Budget Committee, not 
by the Treasurer himself, and is 
based upon projections made by 
the Budget Department and the 
various University officials in charge 
of budgetary units. Blame for 
incorrect estimates cannot fairly be 
attributed to the inadequacies of 
any individual but rather to the 
system now used to monitor 
Yale's financial situation. 

Some changes have already been 
made in the system. For example, 
the composition of the University 
Budget Committee has been changed 
to include three academic deans in 
order to give better representation 
to Yale's academic sector. In 
addition, it has been suggested that 
the faculty charter include a 
standing committee to monitor the 
financial situation and report period-
ically any changes in the financial 
picture. 

Uncertain as the process of 
economic forecasting seems to be, 
'the University has good reason to 
expect changes in the system that 
will provide the more reliable 
financial figures so important 
to the planning of its future. As 
O'Connor admits, "We could be 
more on top of things." • 



**Fulbright's Foreign Policy**
**Author: [Not specified]**
**Page number(s): 18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• ' 
. (continued from page 13) 
President has about winning the 
game. He had more assurance, per-
sonally, than this President. But the 
Vietnamese had suffered much had 
been so disappointed over Gen~va, 
that they were just as arbitrary as 
th~y could be. And that was a great 
mistake from their own point of 
view, for they could have had this 
war over a long time ago." 

Fulbright is steadfast in his 
opposition to present Administration 
policies. He has concluded that they 
want to maintain a pre-eminent 
American presence in Southeast Asia. 
"I don't think the people knew in 
1968 or know now what is in 
the mind of the President--and it's not a 
policy of disengagement. Vietnamization 
means control by proxy." 

The first step would be an 
end to the Vietnam war, ended 
the way the French ended their 
war-with a conference. We would 
accept a mixed government, includ-
ing communists, and we would 
not attempt to maintain a major US 
position in Southeast Asia. 

Fulbright would shift away from 
what he describes as America's 
"great power militariam." This 
would involve both the rejection of 
military responses to political 
problems, and a substantial reduc-
tion in US bases and commitments 
abroad. He would also avoid new 
commitments like those the 
Administration is now negotiating 
with the Portuguese and Greek 
dictatorships for bases in Athens 
and the Azores. 

He would revert to a •policy of 
non-intervention. No more military 
and CIA involvements as occurred 
in Greece and the Dominican 
Republic. No more public funds for 
private organizations like Radio Free 
Europe. No longer a free hand to 
the Pentagon propagandists within 
our own country. 

He would continue to pursue 
the ~etente with Russia and C:hina, 
lookmg for areas of common mterest 
and possible cooperation. (Fultiright 
has applauded the President's 
efforts in these directions. After the 
China trip, he wrote Nixon, 
congratulating him and pledging his 
full support. No reply came from the 
President.) As much international 
tension as possible, including the 
Middle East powder keg, would be 
moved inside a revived UN. And 
foreign aid would be redirected 
from military assistance towards 
developmental projects. 

Finally, he would attempt two 
crucial changes in foreign policy 
practices. First, believing that the 
"cult of the strong Presidency" has 
created a crisis-oriented Presidential 
dictatorship in foreign policy, he 
would try to restore Congress' 
Constitutional role in declaring war, 
making treaties, and advising the 
President. "The American 
Congress is indeed a slow-moving 
and sometimes inefficient body," 
he observed last year, "but to 
those of us who have developed an 
appreciation of the capacity of 
people in high places for doing 
stupid things, there is much to be 
said for institutionai processes · 
which compel people to think things 
over before plunging into action." 
tional Wilsoriian-"classic" as he puts 
Secondly, in what is a dramatic 
it--at a time when "neo-balance of 
reversal for a country that has known 
power" has become the new orthodoxy. 
a quarter century of permanent 
Kissinger is the only member of 
crisis, he would de-escalate the 
the Administration with whom relations 
importance of foreign policy itself. 
have not soured; indeed, they lunch 
Too much emphasis--often in 
together occasionally either at Sans 
retrospect a kind of hysterical 
Souci or Fulbright's home. And they 
emphasis--has taken our eyes away 
share certain common ideas, parti-
from the urgent problems at home--
cularly that the "two camps" 
and has diverted the time and money 
division of the Cold War is over, and 
they need. "I would guess," Fulbright that Russia and China are in many 
said, "that fully 80 percent of the 
ways conservative states with which 
President's working hours are concerned we can pursue "businesslike relations." 
with the war in one way or another. 
Someone might prepare a speech tor 
him on social problems, and he gives 
it, but that's all." 

Yet they differ in fundamental 
premises. Kissinger's balance of power 
assumes that struggle and war are the 
natural order on the world scene. 
As surely as Johnson meant Fulbright Every tiny quake in tht> Third World 
when he attacked the "Nervous Nellies" threatens American security and only 
so President Nixon obviously had him 
the artful management by the likes 
in mind when he criticized those 
of Henry Kissinger can prevent 
"former internationalists" who have 
collapse into war. In contrast to 
become "neo-isolationists." Fulbright 
this pessimistic world outlook 
is obviously sensitive on that score, 
Fulbright assumes that peace ~an 
and reacted with exasperation. "My 
be as natural a state as war. He is 
· ene~ies call a~l this isolation. I. call it 
suspicious of the crisis ~anagers and 
non-mtervent10n. Call It anythmg 
questions the entire validity of the 
you like. But we should cut out many 
international 'game of nations.' 
of these commitments--all too many 
Perhaps touched by utopianism he 
of them wasteful and unnecessary and 
believes that, as he said last ye~. 
dangerous. But this does not mean 
the UN has been the "one great 
we withdraw from the world.'' 

Obviously, Fulbright is not an 
isolationist. But he is also not an in-
ternationalist in the interventionist 
school of the Deans (Acheson and 
Rusk) or in the managerial school of 
the Princes (Metternich and Bismarck). 
He is in many respects a very tradi-
relations." Unlike Kissinger, he 
regards change and revolution as 
inevitable, but does not believe 
that all change threatens us. 

Moreover, Fulbright makes a 
number of pointed criticisms of a 
balance of power system--~at powers


**Title: The Senator and the War**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
s 
becoming captives of their smaller 
allies, the tremendous restrains 
imposed by nuclear weapons, that 
balance of power systems tend to 
breakdown as Kissinger's vaunted 
Vienna system collapsed in August 
1914. 

While others have made many of 
these specific points, Fulbright's 
program, in its entirety, has a 
coherence. In effect, he has articu-
lated what is today's "opposition 
line" more clearly than anybody else. 
His influence lS clearly felt today, 
however, only in Congress' efforts 
to get back its role in policy-making 
• 
"Nobody has had more impact than 
him," said Stuart Symington. "A 
lot of people prattle on the floor 
about the dignity of the Senate, but 
he's the one who's worked really 
hard to preserve the prerogative of 
the Senate. The Senate's new look 
is embodied in how he handles it. If 
he should not come back to the 
Senate after the 1974 elections, 
it would be a disaster for the 
country." 

Not everybody bends to 
Fulbright's leadership. He has been 
criticized lately for tactics. Moreover, 
a dozen or so Senators can be expected 
to vote immediately against any 
legislation or resolution bearing his 
name. And a lot of Congressman 
simply resent him. Last year, Rep. 
Thomas Morgan, ·chairman of the 
House Foreign Affairs Committee, 
was asked what had happened in a 
conference meeting between his 
committee and the Fbreign Relations 
Committee. "Nothing happened," 
Morgan snapped, "except that 
Professor Fulbright lectured us for 
( 
• an hour." 

The tum-about in Congressional 
attitude on its role can be dated to 
August 17, 196 7, when Undersec-
retary of State Nicholas Katzenbach 
told a Foreign Relations Committee 
hearing that, in the context of the 
Vietnam War, "the expression of 
declaring war is one that has become 
outmoded in the international arena." 
Katzenbach was thus saying that the 
Presidential prerogative on major 
questions was virtually complete. 

In the years since, the Senate, 
sometimes a majority, but more 
often a substantial but growing minority, 
has sought to regain its role. This 
new kind of bipartisanship has taken 
many forms-from the anti-ABM 
coalition, to stop-the-war amendments, 
to efforts to force the President to 
reveal all secret executive agreements. 
But, as the Haiphong mining and 
more recent escalations of the air 
war prove, Congress' role in foreign 
.. policy is more brave talk than 
actual fact. The message was clear in 
the subdued, almost-empty hearing 
rooms during the testimony on the 
Pentagon Papers on the mc.rning 
Nixon's mines off Haiphong were 
activated. It was even clearer in a 
caucus during the May crisis when 
a Senator who had called for an 
"audience" with the President was 
sharply reminded by Mike Mansfield: 
"Not an audience, but a meeting. 
He's not king-yet." 

" We've been trying everythmg we 
.. 
can think of," said Fulbright, "but 
we've been thwarted. One of the 
main reasons for the inability of 
Congress to reassume its proper 
role is the existence of the war!' 
His secretary buzzed him. He would 
have to go to the floor shortly to 
vote on a war fund cut-off---a 
vote in which the Administration 
would once again scrape through. 
But he continued, "When you have 
a Congress and a country dominated 
by this war fever, the feeling that 
our men are on the front lines--" He 
shook his head. " It's an atmosphere 
almost impossible to overcome." 

"It's true, as societies become more 
complex, there's a natural tendency 
toward the concentration of power 
in the executive. And an economic 
crisis or a war always leads to an 
exaggeration of executive power. 
We've been in a fof'o/:rear -~risis. 
This is the fundamental reason for 
the deterioration of Congress. 
There's nothing you can do until 
you can get over the feeling that 
there is impending disaster, and 
you've got to look to the great leader." 

Yet Fulbright has been doing 
something. He and Eugene McCarthy 
made dissent respectable. Beyond 
that, Fulbright was the first to 
begin-at first tentatively a decade ago, 
then with increasing confidence--to 
suggest the outlines and orientations 
for a new US foreign policy. He 
began this effort long before the old 
orthodoxy had collapsed, at a time 
when Henry Kissinger was still 
engrossed in the nuclear doom 
books of the Cold War. 

So, he may be less the outcast, 
the Cassandra, and more the teacher 
than he recognizes. He is as much 
the foreign policy professor as 
Kissinger. For this new Nixon-
Kissinger line--in its better moments, 
stripped of its geopolitical jargon· 
and Spenglerian gloom, separated 
from its powerful anti-communist 
remnants--shows remarkable 
congruity with the Fulbright out-
line. It turns out that they too 
have been listening, at least 
some of the time. It's just that 
they prefer to forget where they 
heard it first. 

The conversation, as it ended, 
returned to the Vietnam war. 
Fulbright always returns to the 
war; it is an obsession, but one 
grounded in our recent history. 
For him the war is both a sign and 
a cause of our misfortunes. It has 
crippled our foreign policy, drained 
resources, eroded the national life, 
and destroyed the credibility of 
government. 

His secretary had buzzed him 
again, and the bells for a vote were 
ringing as he walked from his office 
into the hallway of the New 
Senate Office Building. He was 
asked how effective he has been. He 
was standing now by the special 
elevator for Senators that would 
take him to the ba&ement, where 
he would catch a tram that would 
carry him to the Capitol. The 
Senate page held the door open. 
Fulbright shrugged, as though weary 
at the end of a long, frustrating, day. 
" I haven't been effective at all, have 
I? The war's still going on." He 
said it matter-of-factly, almost 
coldly. Perhaps there was in his 
voice a note of sadness as well. •



the 
ne~v 
haven 
tern1inal 
30 water, front street 
new haven 
469·1319 


--- Page 20 ---

with stereo components by 
Advent. Sansui, and BSR, 
$400 
now buys 
you all 
~a:iBJ~the music. 
Until very recently. if you set out with four hundred dollars to purchase a 
complete stereo system. you were likely to be disappointed. To purchase a 
music system that could reproduce the lowest octave(s) of deep bass, you 
found you had to spend about six hundred dollars; for four hundred dollars a 
component system did not exist which could produce really low bass. 
But this has now changed. Because of two new products, we are now able to 
offer (and guarantee) a complete AM/FM stereo phonograph system which 
provides the necessary range to reproduce all music. The system consists of 
two new Smaller Advent Loudspeakers, a Sansui 350A AM/FM stereo 
receiver. and a BSR 510A/X automatic turntable with a Shure elliptical 
diamond cartridge. The new* Smaller Advent Loudspeakers and the Sansui 
receiver· make possible the increased performance and lower cost of this 
system. 

The Smaller Advent is the only loudspeaker costing less than the original 
Advent which can reproduce the entire musical range. Through the Smaller 
Advent you can hear the bottom octave of piano and pipe organ, the lowest 
notes of the double bass. or the bottom string of an electric bass guitar: 
(These low frequency sounds have a lot to do with the enjoyment you will 
derive from your music system.) 

On all kinds of musical material, and. under most listening conditions likely 
to apply in most homes. the Smaller Advent is the equal of any speaker 
system available. 

No technical sorcery is responsible for the surpnsmg performance of the 
Smaller Advent Loudspeaker. To build into the speaker its excellent low 
frequency capabilities, Advent has had to give up a small amount of 
efficiency and power·handling ability: the Smaller Advents will not play as 
loudly as the larger Advents. 

FRED LOCKE STEREO IS KIIOWI 
FOR ITS V AlUIS •ECAUSE: 
1 We •p.~coohre only"" •••••• coMponent••h~eh we laaow ••• 
..... 
w .. ofe n'IOfe COf'l'l.pehllve ,,. O¥f' f"'Kn 
We co"y o w.de t4'~fi!On of bfoi'Hh. iond~. many new on4 ••· 
"""~pt-.4~ 
We noo-to.., competent wni'IICO foctl•ht>• • ...,..,..ct with thlt ......, 
'*'',__to h..tp wfow.n we ••• "~ 
S w .. bocS. wp o11 ••••• w1th o f'l'oney -ltociL totttfoctton ,..,..,. 
FOR YOUR PROTECTION 
JtJJt os wtth any other sto<l. item in our store, tf you 
purchas-e thi1o system ond feel that '' n not the value 
thot you thought it wo..,ld M . you moy return •t for o 
full case refund w•thtn one week -
osk "'' few de· 
toils. 

ADVENT 
The Sansui AM/fM stereo receiver provides enough power to satisfy both you 
and the Advent speakers; it delivers into the four-ohm Advents more than 
15.0 watts of RMS power, over the entire audio range, with less than 0.5% 
total distortion. (RMS is the most demanding and least flashy of the various 
power rating systems.) The FM and AM tuner sections of the Sansui receiver 
are both sensitive and selective: weak stations as well as strong will be 
received with a surprising fullne~s and clarity. 

To match the level of quality which the Sansui receiver and the Smaller 
Advent speakers represent, we recommend the BSR 51 OA/X automatic 
turntable. It has a good heavy platter, a convenient cueing control. and 
minimal (also inaudible) wow. flutter, and rumble. The BSR. with the Advent 
speakers and the Sansui receiver, allow us to offer you a quality sound system 
at a cost substantially lower than that which was previously possible. 

We include with the BSR a dust·cover, a base, and a Shure cartridge -
a 
smooth, light-tracking, wide-range cartridge with fine high frequency 
capabilities. It complements the excellent high frequency characteristics of 
the Smaller Advent Loudspeakers and the Sansui receiver. 

The complete system, guaranteed for two years, parts and labor. costs $399. 
You can sit back and hear all the music. 

*In most talk about stereo equipment, a "new" product is one that is either 
"better" or "worse" than a "not-new" product. (Sometimes it is "the same", 
but with a few additional frills -
black-light front panel, Day-Gio controls. 
Remote Control, etc.) The Smaller Advent Loudspeaker is really "new" -
not better or worse than the original Advent. It was design~ to answer a very 
real need - the need for a quality loudspeaker at a low cost and of small size 
which could provide every sonic character that most people associate with the 
best possible loudspeaker, when connected to a low-cost receiver or amplifier. 
1533 State Street, New Haven, 787-0183 
(our new Annex) 136 Park Street, New Haven, 776-5600 

