Publication date: December 5, 1881
Volume: [Volume not specified]
Issue number: [Issue number not specified]

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Ed Bennett
- Editor-in-Chief: Andy Court
- Designer: Geoffry Fried
- Business Manager: Jeff Foster
- Production Manager: Jane Hinson
- Photo Editor: Rollin Riggs
- Staff: Paul Hofheinz, Walter Jacob, Jim Lowe, Geoff Pope


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
About this Issue -  
Comment: Women's Studies; The Divinity School - 
The Tobin Committee: A Special Report - 
The strange case of WYBC - 
The Odyssey of Kathleen Cleaver - 
Profile: Joel Schiavone, downtown developer - 
Research: The tiniest wires in town - 
Sports: A club that won't quit - 
Books: Thinking through China's revolution - 


**Title: Does Yale Know Us?**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 2**

The mood in America is changing. Declining productivity has focussed new 
attention on the need to increase national savings as a means of replacing 
and modernizing outdated plant and equipment. Recognizing this, and also 
wishing to help their employees achieve personal savings goals, many large 
employers have established savings, profit sharing and stock ownership plans 
for their employees. 


Kwasha Lipton is perhaps the nation's 
leading consultant for these plans. We 
help design them, establish administrative 
structures, and maintain employee ac-
count records. These plans are decep-
tively complex, and working with them is 
both challenging and re-
warding. Individuals with 
math, accounting, or com-
puter aptitude and the abil-
ity to work well with other 
people should contact 
Deborah J. Marx, Director 
of Defined Contribution 
Services, Kwasha Lipton, 
Englewood Cliffs, NJ 
07632, (201) 567-()()Q1 . 


**Title: About this Issue**
**Page number(s): 3**

This issue of The Ntw journal should 
feel a bit thicker to you than previous 
editions. Since you last read us in 
October, we've added eight pages to 
our format. This new size gives us the 
kind of flexibility that a growing, 
aggressive publication needs; the extra 
space will allow us to publish more 
articles, use additional photos and run 
more ads while keeping our design 
intact. 


The added pages are possible 
because of people like Geoff Fried and 
Jane Hinson. As Designer and 
Production Manager respectively, they 
make a magazine from piles of copy, 
ad orders, and contact sheets. Fried, a 
second year design student, has spent 
this semester creating the fundamental 
design for TN] and will serve as 
design consultant in the future. 


Hinson, ajunior in Berkeley, is in 
charge of coordinating all aspects of 
the magazine and setting the deadlines 
that make TN] go. 


We'd like to call your attention to 
this issue's Special Report written by 
Walter Jacob and Nathan Copple. 
Jacob provides an analysis of the 
Tobin Committee report, a story 
which he first began working on last 
spring. Copple reports on a proposal 
made by junior faculty in the English 
department to reduce the number of 
courses they teach-a story which 
relates to the perennial tensions 
between teaching and scholarship. 


Also in this issue, Ed Bennett and 
Andy Court interview Kathleen 
Cleaver, '83, the wife of former Black 
Panther leader Eldridge Cleaver. And 
Jim Lowe investigates student 
involvement in WYBC. Lowe, a 
freshman in M orse, was elected to the 
Staff on October 27. For the past two 
issues, be has worked on advertising 
and production, while also editing the 
copy to keep our style consistent. We 
welcome him to the Staff. 



**Title: Confessions of a divinity student**
**Author: Timothy B. Safford**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Not long ago, I was killing time in the 
Gypsy Bar and talking with a woman 
from the School of Organization and 
Management. For some reason, she 
took it upon herself to guess which 
school I studied at. 

She immediately guessed med school, 
law school and graduate school, and 
was disappointed with the negative 
results. Not discouraged, she scrutin-
ized me more carefully. "You don't look 
like a forestry student," she said, and 
she was sure that she hadn't seen me 
around the SOM. After exhausting 
nearly all of the professional schools, 
she peered at me and said, "You don't 
go to the divinity school, do you?" I ad-
mitted to the fact and pointed to the 
several tables in the bar crowded with 
div students. She was somewhat in-
credulous. "Oh come on," she said, as if 
I were pulling her leg. 

It has not taken me long to learn that 
some in the Yale community are 
shocked when they find us out in 
public, behaving like "normal people," 
rather than at home in the cell reading 
the Bible and chanting. The divinity 
school is not some sort of brick, col-
onial, congregational monastary located 
two 
blocks beyond the science 
buildings. There is the assumption that 
every . one at the divinity school is ex-
tremely religious, spends every waking 
hour reading the Bible, preparing for the 
ministry in some organized church. 
This is simply not the case. 

To be sure, more than half of the div 
students are preparing for ministry in 
the 40 or so denominations they repre-
sent. But some will use their masters 
degree to go on to law school. Others 
will go into counselling; some plan to 
find a career in social services. Fre-
quently, I hear div students talking 
about their interest in working for the 
government or becoming a lobbyist in 
Washington. Some will pursue PhD's. 
One student worked as an architect 
before coming to div school, and he will 
return to that profession upon leaving. 
Many are planning to work in the
church, but not in the context of or-
dained minister or priest. The term 
coined for this is "lay ministry," but 
there is very little agreement as to what 
the term means. In the anxiety of the 
first week of div school, I kept on think-
ing to myself that I could get on a train 
and go to Columbia to study jour-
nalism- my original plan before 
deciding to come to Yale. 

Even though more than 20 chapel 
services are scheduled each week in 
Marquand chapel and the nearby 
Berkeley Center, it wouldn't be right to 
say that div students are overly religious 
and devout-just more so than the 
norm. No one has the courage or the 
stamina to try to attend all of the chapel 
services. Most attend a few. Some at-
tend none. I was worried when I ar-
rived in September that there would be 
no place at YDS for someone with 
questions, anxieties and general doubts 
toward religion. Overly religious people 
had always made me nervous since I 
suffered through a Christian fellowship 
meeting in college, never to return. At 
every turn, though I met someone who 
was scared to death to be here. Fre-
quently in conversation with entering 
students, we would discover that there 
was a mystery about how we ended up 
in New Haven on some sort of religious 
journey. Many have the need to answer 
some questions that date back to 
childhood. 

The variety of religious experience 
and people is vast: Some celebrate the 
glory of God; others the glory of 
humanity. 
And others celebrate 
something in-between. Some arrive 
Jews and leave Christians and a few ar-
rive Christians and leave Jews. Others 
are in search of unity in a spiritually 
discordant world. The most common 
attribute of divinity students, with the 
possible exception of uncertainty, is the 
desire to bring justice and relief to a 
world which has too much pain and too 
much suffering. 

Part of this is participating in the 
permeating social awareness at the div 
school and trying to turn this awareness 
into action. Nuclear arms protests and 
hunger fasts are one aspect of the 
awareness, but it goes much further. 

**Title: Dispelling doubts about women's studies**
**Author: Lisa Clark**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

On November 5, the Yale College 
faculty approved the Women's Studies 
major. The recognition that women are 
worth studying is an important advance 
in the status of women at Yale. It also 
quells some of the doubts that a 
discipline devoted to women offers a 
valid and rigorous education. 

Many students never take a Women's 
Studies course or take only one. Some 
complain that there are only white 
middle-class women in the classes; that 
the classes are too loosely structured 
while requiring too much work; or that 
outspoken and angry women dominate 
and intimidate other class members. 

In the first place, Women's Studies 
does not intend to attract only white, 
middle-class women. Understandably, 
women will be drawn in larger numbers 
than men because they identify more 
implicitly with the study of women. But 
men can benefit from an enriched 
awareness of the female perspective; 
women learn from studying about men 
in most other classes here. The program 
is not equally relevant to all races and 
classes however. This deficiency will 
hopefully be amended along with the 
community's increased acceptance of 
the major and with the addition of more 
course offerings. Women's Studies will 
continue to grow; it already claims 38 
courses cross-listed in 13 departments, 
though it was first implemented only 
four years ago. 

Secondly, those who criticize the 
classes 
for being disorganized 
misperceive 
the value of informal 
discussions in which professors present 
themselves less as masters and more as 
guides or participants in shared-
learning situations. 
Like seminars, 
these classes demand considerable 
reading, writing and thinking. The 
students who complain about the 
workload are missing out on the chance 
to study an inspiring subject-women. 

But of all grievances, the last one, 
that bitter feminists control the classes, 
needs the most attention and refutation. 
It reflects the misunderstanding of 
feminism at Yale by supporting a myth 
that Women's Studies responds to leftist 
feminist concerns alone, or that 
Women's Studies shelters radical lesbian 
feminists and prefers to exclude the rest 
of the Yale community. 

Women's Studies, like any other 
discipline, attracts students who speak 
up in class because they have an interest 
and background in the field. Unlike 
other disciplines, however, general 
topics often demand immediate per-
sonal application. Many discussions (on 
witch burnings, female poets, or Freu-
dian analysis, as examples) ask impor-
tant questions about 
female-male 
perceptions. Those students who ex-
plore and expose intimate views about 
the sexes can threaten other students. 
Sometimes the confusion or bitterness 
of women who realize that their sex has 
been oppressed, slips into discussions. 
Female-male relations are treated as 
private and sensitive topics in today's 
culture, and students are not trained to 
listen and respond well to personal 
reflections in an academic setting. Thus 
these comments are interpreted as an-
tagonistic outbursts in Women's Studies 
classes. 

If education is meant to teach 
students how to look critically at the 
world and its systems, then analysis of 
female-male differences is a crucial 
aspect of learning. If education aims to 
make students aware of their relation-
ship to the world and to other students, 
then again the habits of the sexes need 
to be analyzed. The Women's Studies 
department is based upon the study of 
female-male relations from the perspec-
tive of women, who have been less pro-
perly studied. Its ultimate goal is the 
opposite of separatism and antagonism: 



**Title: Women's Studies**
**Author: Lisa Clark**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Women's Studies encourages a large 
awareness of human connections be-
tween individuals and within society. 
Hopefully now that the major has been 
established, the program will reach 
more and more students in both sexes, 
and of all class and racial backgrounds 
at Yale . 
• 
Lisa Clark, Morse '82 is on the Women~ 
Studies Advisory Committee. 
The opinions expressed in this sectio1_l are those 
of the individual writers. The New Journal 
welcomes Comment on Yale and New Haven 
issues. Send proposals /Q 3432 Yale Station, 
New Haven, CT. 06520.


**Title: Tobin, teaching and tenure Will Yale take risks?**
**Author: Walter Jacob**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

In the first evaluation of Yale's tenure 
policy since 1965, an ad hoc committee 
recommended in October that Yale 
"take risks" in appointing more young, 
promising professors. 
The committee, chaired by professor 
James Tobin, sent its report to every 
member of the Faculty of Arts and 
Sciences. Yet two weeks later, the facul-
ty displayed no sign of enthusiasm. Few 
professors contacted had read the 
report; those who had gave it a 
lukewarm response. Robert Westbrook, 
an assistant professor in American 
Studies and History, said the report did 
not ensure a change in the university's 
treatment of junior faculty. 
"The report doesn't really make any 
startling departures from prevailing 
practice," he said. "None of the provi-
sions, none of the specific recommenda-
tions institutionalize risk-taking on 
behalf of younger faculty." . 
Other faculty members agreed with 
Westbrook, and argued that a number 
of recommendations in the report 
counteract the risk-taking recommen-
dation. 
"I agree with the opinion that Yale 
has to do more risk-taking with its 
younger people," Professor of Applied 
Mechanics Robert Apfel said. "How it 
will do it is another question." 

A risky business 
For junior faculty, a university policy of · 
risk-taking is much more than an 
abstract ideal. The Faculty Handbook, 
says, "Candidates for professorships are 
expected to stand in competition with 
the foremost scholars in their fields 
throughout the academic world." Con-
sequently, Yale associate professors 
seeking tenure often find themselves up 
against men and women from outside 
Yale with much more academic ex-
perience and many more published 
works. 
The decision to teach at Yale without 
tenure is its own kind of risk; the Tobin 
Committee's report reveals that of all 
those hired as assistant professors be-
tween 1960 and 1969, an average of 15 
per cent from the Humanities, Social 
Sciences and Natural Sciences were 
granted tenure. The prospects improve 
somewhat for those starting at higher 
ranks; of those entering Yale as 
untenured associate professors between 
1960 and 1969, 46 per cent eventually 
received tenure. 
But competition from outsiders re-
mains fierce. Frances Holloway, man-
ager for Yale's AffJimative Action Of-
fice, said that of the 60 new promotions 
and appointments to tenure at Yale in 
the last five years, 31 have come from 
outside the university. To make matters 
worse, Associate Provost Ellen Ryerson 
said the Provost's Academic Review 
Committee is currently looking at ways 
to reduce the size of the Faculty of Arts 
and Sciences over time. 
The Tobin Committee's report shows 
concern for the junior faculty member 
faced with a shrinking job market. The 
report suggests that departments 
regularly review their professors' 
chances for tenure and discuss those 
chances with each candidate. Instruc-
tors and assistant professors should also 
be eligible for a term's paid leave after 
three years in the ranks, the report says, 
so that they may have time to do re-
search that may qualify them for pro-
motion. The report even goes so far as 
to ask that Yale provide professional 
training for junior faculty who cannot 
get tenure and want to change fields. 
"We must do a much better job than 
we've been doing in keeping junior 
faculty. well-informed about their per-
sonal prospects . . . so that they can 
make an informed decision on whether 
to stay here or not," Tobin said in a 
press conference on October 25. 
But tenure is what the junior faculty 
wants, and some faculty members 
doubt that the report's recommenda-
tions on risk-taking will give them a bet-
ter crack at it. 
Professor Horace Taft, who served 
on the Tobin Committee, said no 
guidelines suggested by the committee 
could possibly guarantee risk-taking. 
"There's no way to legislate it, it's a 
matter of style and a matter of attitude," 
he said. "It's a recommendation that 
everybody realizes cannot be enforced." 

Sacrifices for honesty 
Some of the proposals in the report have 
led faculty members to wonder whether 
the Committee is giving risk-taking a 
fair chance. For example, the Commit-
tee 
recommends 
the 
position of 
Associate Professor with Tenure be 
abolished. This may make the Univer-
sity more hesitant to appoint anyone to 
tenure, Taft admitted. 
Currently, 
associate professors with tenure receive 
less pay than full professors but have the 
same tenure security. The Committee 
argues that a tenured faculty member 
can never attain a full professorship. 
Taft said the greater justice achieved 
in abolishing the rank outweighs the 
sacrifices the University may have to 
make in terms of risk-taking. "' think it 
will make the tenure decision a sharper, 
perhaps tougher decision," he said. "It 
may result in perhaps fewer tenure pro-
posals. But it's more honest, in my opi-
nion." 
Keith Thomson, 
Dean of the 
Graduate School, said he favored the 
proposal but worried that professors 
would lose 
incentives 
for self-
improvement after getting tenure. 
Thomson said he hoped Yale would 
maintain incentives by starting newly 
tenured professors at the salaries that 
associate professors with tenure now 
hold, and later moving them up. 
"As far as I understand it, the notion 
would be to collapse the two pay scales," 
he said. "I would be opposed to starting 
everybody off at what is the current full 
professor's salary range." 
Tobin said he had not considered a 
large salary difference between newly 
tenured professors and those who had 
held tenure for a long time. 

Misdirected exP.rtlse? 
Some faculty have worried that risk-
taking would decline if Yale uses advice 
from "experts" outside Yale in appoint-
ments as the Committee suggests. The 
Tobin report urges departments to use 
recommendations from people of "re-
• cognized distinction" in their fields 
when making tenure or term associate 
professor appointments. The Commit-
tees on Senior Appointments would 
meet with three experts for each tenure 
case, the report said, and at least two of 
them would have to be outsiders. In no 
cases where outside experts are used 
would the expert have a vote in appoin-
ting or denying appointment to can-
didates, but they could clearly influence 
a department or committee's decision, 
Tobin said. 
If advice is supplied by people who 
have read a professor's published work 
but are not experts on his teaching 
abilities and other skills, some faculty 
argue, tenure decisions will be based 
more on prior achievement than on 
potential, and junior faculty will be 
placed at a disadvantage with respect to 
more experienced outsiders. 
Thomson predicted that the faculty 
would react negatively to the proposal 
because it represented a reduction in 
faculty power. 
"Yale has always relied on the Yale 
faculty making its own proposals and 
appointments," he said. "I think the 
Yale faculty would not readily give up 
the tremendous responsibility it cur-
rently has." 
Tobin admitted that he, too, ex-
pected debate on the issue. 
"I expect there are going to be some 
misgivings about this . .. because it 
does give power to outsiders," he said. 
Julie o·Nelll-The New Journal 
"But usually you don't lose anything by 
broadening the scope of advice." 
Risk-taking might also be jeopar-
dized by the way outside advice would 
be solicited under the Committee's 
guidelines. The Tobin Report calls for 
the use of "blind letters" that request not 
a specific recommendation of one can-
didate but rather a comparative rating 
of each individual on a list of candidates 
for a given tenured position (hence the 
term "blind"). Outsiders asked to rate a 
young scholar against one with more 
credentials might place more emphasis 
on prior achievement and sway a 
department's opinion towards older 
candidates. 

Flushing crimson 
Some indication of how risk-taking will 
be affected by proposals in the Tobin 
Report may be gleaned from Harvard's 
experience. Harvard abolished 
associate professorships with tenure in 
the late sixties and now uses both blind 
letters and outside consultants who sit 
on ad hoc appointments committees. 
Two Yale faculty members who wished 
to go unnamed suggested that some of 
the committee's recommendations were 
partial imitations of Harvard's tenure 
policy. 
Phyllis Keller, Harvard's Associate



**Harvard's Tenure System**
**Author: Walter Jacob**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"It's a recommendation that 
everybody realizes cannot be 
enforced." 
Dean for Academic Planning, said the 
replies to blind letters play a vital role in 
tenure decisions at Harvard. 
"Our letters go back to the depart-
ment, but they also go .along to the 
President," she said. "It's generally 
viewed as a very critical, acute and 
highly valuable, important method cf 
evaluation." 
Keller said the blind letters evoke 
much more insightful advice from ex-
perts than simple requests for personal 
recommendations could. 
"There's a very big difference be-
tween a blind letter and a letter of 
recommendation," she said. "If people 
are asked to write a letter of recommen-
dation, they really don't respond unless 
they have something positive to say." 
The blind letter, Keller added, "puts the 
appointment in competitive context." 
Keller maintained that neither the 
use of outside recommendations nor the 
abolition of associate professorships 
with tenure in the late 1960s have 
caused a decline in risk-taking. She 
estimated that one-third of Harvard's 
tenured spots go to people who are pro-
moted through the school's junior 
ranks, a figure that ranks low next to 
Yale's 50 per cent. 
"People have complained about a lack 
of risk-taking, but the evidence doesn't 
really back it up," she said. "It clearly is 
the case that younger people do get ap-
pointed." 

That doesn't mean that many junior 
faculty at Harvard make it to tenure, 
however. 
"We're looking for the best qualified 
candidate," said 
Bertrand . Dreben, 
Special Assistant to the Dean of the 
Faculty of Arts and Sciences at Har-
vard. "'nly a very small proportion of 
junior faculty ever get promoted." 
Tobin noted that Harvard's tenure 
policy relies much more heavily on out-
side advice and presidential opinion 
than would Yale even under the 
Report's recommendations. At Har-
vard, he said, the president makes every 
tenure decision by himself based on 
recommendations from an ad hoc com-
mittee. 
"T~at's quite a 
difTereJ~t constitu-
tional system," Tobin said. 
Self·lnterest 
Tobin foresees slow progress for his 
committee's report in the upcoming 
faculty and administration debates. The 
report must still be reviewed by the Ex-
ecutive Committee of the Faculty of 
Arts and Sciences, the Faculty of Yale 
College and that of the Graduate 
School, the Joint Boards of Permanent 
Officers, and, finally, if warranted, the 
Yale Corporation. 
He reacts to arguments about risk-
taking with exasperation. 
"The report 
says 
we're always 
forward-looking," he said. "We're using 
achievement only as an index of what 
the future may tum up. (A junior facul-
ty member] is not competing outside his 
weight class, provided there's good 
reason to believe that when he's 55 he'll 
have a similar record to show." 
Tobin 
suggested 
that 
the 
Committee's recommendations on risk-
taking don't need to be enforced. 
Departments would only be hurting 
themselves, he implied, if they didn't 
follow the Committee's guidelines. 
"What forces them to do it is their 
self-interest in having a good depart-
ment, one would hope!" he said,"' don't 
know how else you'd do it!" 
Walter Jacob, a senior in Silliman, has 
written for The Washington Monthly, 
The National Journal and The Miami 
Herald. He wrote last month on jacuhy 
evaluations.


**A Plan to Test Teachers**
**Author: W.J.**
**Page number(s): 11**

One of the Tobin Committee's recom-
mendations was that Yale should ex-
amine 
more 
closely 
the teaching 
abilities of its candidates for promotion 
(see TNJ Oct. 24). The committee pro-
posed a teacher evaluation form system 
in many ways similar to that which ex-
ists at Princeton. Students would be re-
quired to 
fill 
out standardized 
anonymous forms at the end of each 
semester. The results would go to the 
professor and his department chairmen 
fc_>r consideration in promotion deci-
stons. 

Unlike Princeton's forms, however, 
Yale's forms would not be made public 
record and could not be reviewed by 
students. Tobin said his committee did 
not consider making evaluation form 
results available to students. "If all ques-
tionnaires are just going to be public 
property, they may be filled out with 
something else in mind," he said. 
P rofessor Robert Apfel, who studied 
teacher evaluation systems as chairman 
of the Teaching and Learning Commit-
tee in 1980, saw the omission of the 
public record provision as a political 
concession. Apfel has stated his belief 
that the faculty would react unfavorably 
to any teacher evaluation form system. 
"I think probably the Tobin Commit-
tee was taking a pragmatic position 
there," he said. •If the faculty is feeling 
persecuted by evaluation forms, they'll 
feel even more persecuted if they are 
made a matter of public record." 
Associate Professor Robert \Vest-
brook agreed. •My sense is that if the 
proposal passes muster, it will be in part 
because of the restricted access people 
have to the questionnaire," he said. 
Apfel worried that the Tobin Com-
mittee had not fully considered a format 
for the teacher evaluation forms it was 
proposing. The functions of a Course 
Improvement Form, which Yale now 
uses, are very different from those of a 
Rollin Riggs-The New Joumat 
Robert Apfel, former chairman of lht Teo.ching and Learning Committee 
teacher evaluation form and should be 
kept separate, he said. Course Improve-
ment forms are for recommendations 
for improvement alone, he stressed, 
while evaluation forms are for rating a 
professor's performance. 
"Any anempt to do two things at once 
would be a mistake," Apfel said. •If I 
think it's too confusing to the student 
about what role the forms are playing, I 
will oppose it.., 
To resolve the problem, Apfel sug-
gested putting the two forms on 
separate sheets of paper. 
As 
at 
Princeton, the Course Improvement 
sheet could be sent to the professor for 
his personal use, while the evaluation 
sheet could be processed separately. 
Apfel also urged that the Teaching 
and Learning Committee not be given 
responsibility for distributing and pro-
cessing the forms, as it does now for 
Course Improvement Forms. Apfel said 
the forms could not be administered 
and evaluated consistently by a body 
whose membership changes every year. 
"The Teaching and Learning Com-
minee should not become an im-
plementation organization," he said. 
"There is really very little long-term 
memory. It has to be adopted by the ad-
ministration.,. 
The battle over evaluation forms is 
just beginning, Apfel said. •1 think 
there's going to be a lot of negative talk 
about evaluation forms, I think student 
input is going to be very important. 


**A Movement to Lighten Teaching Load**
**Author: Nathan Copple**
**Page number(s): 12**

Associate and assistant professors are 
often faced with a conflict between 
devoting their energies toward teaching 
which is what they are paid to do, or 
towards research, which is what is most 
likely to get them tenure. While The 
Tobin report attempts to address the 
concerns of the junior faculty, some 
junior faculty members in the English 
Department are seeking to reduce the 
number of courses they must teach. 
This would theoretically give them 
more time for scholarship, as well as im-
prove the quality of teaching. 
The plan ciills for reducing the junior 
faculty teaching load by two courses 
every three years. Ounior faculty cur-
rently teach five courses per year; senior 
professors teach only four.) The pro-
posal was approved on November 6 by 
the English Department's Under-
graduate Studies Committee (USC). If 
it passes the rest of the department, and 
then the senior faculty, it will be achiev-
ed by eliminating the Intensive Major 
Program, dropping seven of the upper-
level seminars, and adding two students 
to all of the sections of English 115, 125 
and 129. 
"I think this is as honorable a com-
promise as they could have reached," 
observed Assistant Professor Bryan 
Wolf. "Junior faculty in the English 
Department are vastly overworked. In 
addition to teaching one course more 
than most humanities professors, they 
must teach the courses (i.e., 
freshman writing courses) farthest from 
their own research." 
If the proposal passes, a significant 
amount of teaching t1me will be lost. 
With about 40 junior faculty members 
losing an average of two-thirds of a 
term per year, some 26-27 terms must 
be cut. Associate Provost Ellen Ryerson 
called the possibility of a junior faculty 
course load reduction "unreasonable, at 
best. We've made studies of this sort of 
thing before, and we don't believe it's 
academically feasible." 
This year's push for load reduction 
began 
in October when the 
department's Director of Under-
graduate Studies (DUS), Patricia 
Spacks, 
and the Associate DUS, 
Thomas Hyde, were asked to draft a list 
of places to trim the department's cur-
riculum should some cutbacks be 
necessary. Hyde noted that the pro-
jected budget for next year made some 
cuts inevitable, and there was a "fairly 
widespread dissatisfaction with the 
shape of the curriculum. For example, 
there are seminars with only three peo-
ple in them, and I think that this is 
because there's so~e unnecessary and 
unproductive duplication among our 
courses." 
The initial report detailed some 
changes even more drastic than those 
currently under consideration, such as 
teaching English 129 as a lecture 
course, eliminating 13 seminars (vs. the 
current seven), or tossing out English 
120 altogether. None of this was known 
to any undergraduates, with the excep-
tion of four seniors who, as members of 
the English Student Advisory Commit-
tee (ESAC), attended sessions of the 
USC. Jonothan Rak '82, the head of 
this years ESAC, had seen the proposal 
in advance and conducted a small, in-
formal survey of students whose choice 
of courses would be affected by it. Ma-
jors and non-majors alike agreed that 
many of the suggested cutbacks were 
drastic, 
some unacceptable. 
Rak 
assembled these opinions and presented 
them to the USC. He also argued that 
"many of these cutbacks are on paper 
only. Clearly, some one will have to 
teach all of these displaced students, 
regardless of how they are all shifted 
around." Between Rak's objections and 
others which ranged from "practical to 
political," the committee eventually re-
jected the motion as it stood. 
This action, however, only served to 
prolong what Hyde called "a sense of 
urgency among junior faculty members 
this fall. We probably won't have 
another opportunity to make a proposal 
like this for a long time." A different 
course reduction plan was proposed last 
year, only to be sent back by the senior 
faculty members for further planning 
and data. 
The English department places a lot 
of emphasis on its freshman courses. 
The most objectionable aspect of the 
current proposal is thus that it would in-
flate the size of freshman courses. But 
Hyde is quick to point out that grading 
the papers of the 22 students of one sec-
tion is a far easier thing to do than 
grading those for the 40 students of two 
sections. "If anything," he said, "I would 
hope that the quality of teaching in 
these larger sections would go up." 
The loss of seven seminars would not



**Title: The English Department's Section Size Increase**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
.. 
affect as many students as does this sec-
tion size increase, but it will,for the first 
time, effectively exclude non-majors 
from most seminars as well as limit the 
choices of majors who will be taking 
them. The English Department intends 
to compensate for this seminar loss by 
offering four additional lecture courses. 
But lecture sections do not substitute for 
seminars since many sections have 30 
people and are taught by graduate 
students.


Keep up with the times 
Clothing jewlery Leather Goods 
Gifts from around the world 
It is difficult to assess the validity of 
1022 Ch 
I S 
the junior faculty's objection to their 
ape 
t. 
workload. Five courses per year is the 
562-4770 
New Haven, CT. 06510 
norm for all language and literature 1--------------------------------
departments at Yale., but by no means 
does it apply to the other distributional 
groups. Most humanities departments, 
for example, require only four courses 
from their junior faculty; in the natural 
sciences, all faculty teach only one lab 
or course per semester, but about half of 
their work is for the government, and 
they are paid accordingly. 
Courseload comparisons are difficult 
even within Group I. While much of 
the time invested by the foreign 
literature departments is spent simply 
in teaching the language, the University 
expects the English Department to 
sharpen everyone's critical reading skills 
0 ... 
'
,ooC 
ITAI.IA" 
RESTAlRA"'T 
-
and PIZZA 
1 Oo/o OFF WITH THIS AD 
on delicious pizza and 
calzone baked specialties 
and grinders 
Complete Take out Service 
1 004 Chapel near College 
Tel: 777-4322 
and fme-polish their command of 1--------------------------------
writing. "Everyone" here can be taken 
pretty literally- this year, for example, 
there are 14 freshman who arm~ taking 
an English course . 


**Title: The strange case of WYBC**
**Author: Jim Lowe**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

For at least the past five years, WYBC, 
the Yale Broadcasting Company, has 
been in a peculiar position. Well-
respected and with high listener ratings 
in the New Haven area, the radio sta-
tion does not reach many Yale students. 
Although it is a registered undergradu-
ate organization and receives rent-free 
space in Hendrie Hall from the Univer-
sity, few Yale students are involved in 
the station. 

Currently less than half of the ap-
proximately 85 station members are 
Yale students, according to station 
Treasurer Ralph Lopez. At times in the 
past few years the percentages bave 
been as low as 10-20 per cent. 

Over the past few years the Universi-
ty administration has expressed concern 
over this situation. Said Dean of Stu-
dent Affairs David H enson, "I don't 
want to force WYBC to do anything, 
but I do want to make sure that their 
facilities are available to make contribu-
tions to the lives of students. Their 
charter states that that is what they are 
supposed to do." 

The officers of WYBC say they are 
trying to change the situation. Last year 
they reactivated WYBC-AM, a closed-
circuit station broadcasting exclusively 
to the Yale campus. They hope that the 
presence of Yale-oriented broadcasting 
will encourage students to get involved. 
"We really want Yale students to get 
involved," said Diana Riesman, the sta-
tion's General Manager. "There's a lot 
of promise here, we just need people to 
take advantage of the facilities. It seems 
that almost no one knows we're here." 

Reasons 
Why is there such a weak link between 
WYBC and Yale? One reason certainly 
is that the station's 1200 watt commer-
cial FM station is not geared toward a 
Yale audience. Bodt Riesman and 
Lopez readily admit that WYBC-FM is 
a New Haven and not a Yale station, 
and that it will almost definitely remain 
as such. It broadcasts a programing 
schedule of daytime jazz, Sunday 
classical and nightly Spectrum, a show 
Jeff Strong-The N- Journal 
of black programing consisting for the 
most part of disco and soul. In addition 
the station broadcasts a number of 
public access shows aimed at the New 
Haven community. 

WYBC is not the only college station 
that directs it.s programing at the sur-
rounding community rather than to the 
University. Dan Geller, the General 
Manager of Cornell's WVBR-FM 
admitted, "We play a game. Our logo 
says that we are the radio station of 
Tompkins County, but at the same time 
our charter requires us to 'train Cornell 
students in radio.' We try to balance 
these two callings." However, unlike 
WYBC, WVBR is "90 per cent stu-
dents." WFRD-FM and WDCR-AM 
at Dartmouth have similar student 
percentages, though they too aim their 
programing at the neighboring com-
munities. 

Yalies have not always been absent 
from WYBC. When it was founded 40 
years ago and up until 1959 the station 
was solely closed-circuit AM, broad-
casting only to the Yale campus and 
operated entirely by Yale students. By 
the mid-1950s the station had grown in-
to one of the most popular student ac-
tivities. However, as soon as it was in-
stalled in 1959, the FM station, which 
covers New Haven and surrounding 
communities, began to gain precedence 
at WYBC. The AM station became 
... 

basically a training ground for the FM. 
In 1968 major changes hit WYBC. 
The programing changed from a con· 
servative blend of classical and folk 
music to a schedule of progressive rock, 
black programing, jazz and communi-
ty-related talk programs. During the 
same period of time the Federal Com-
munications Commission began to 
press college stations to operate during 
vacations and summer periods and thus 
non-Yale people were encouraged to 
join in order to operate the station dur· 
ing those months. 

For a short time in the late 1960s and 
early 1970s WYBC dominated the 
radio ratings in New Haven. In the ear· 
ly 1970s, however, WPLR joined the 
New Haven radio market and took 
much of WYBC's format and hired 
away the best of the station's air staff. 
The station began to lose its ratings 
position, and it reexamined its pro-
graming. Black Spectrum began to 
grow in importance as did WYBC's 
New Haven-oriented public access pro-
grams. 

In 1972 the link to the Yale campus 
was lost. A studio frre knocked the 
closed-circuit WYBC-AM off the air. 
All Yale related programing generated 
by the Yale Broadcasting Company 
came to a halt. 

When on July 4, 1977 WYBC can-
celled almost all of its progressive rock 
programing and moved to the present 
schedule even more student interest was 
lost. By 1979 WYBC had only limited 
student involvement. The top three ex-
ecutive positions remained in the hands 
of Yale students mostly because the sta· 
tion by-laws required it. For the most 
part, Yale students were looked upon as 
foreigners at WYBC. As Joanne Lip-
man, a junior who spent her freshman 
year working at WYBC, said, "Yale 
didn't count at the station." The Yale 
community didn't figure in WYBC's 
focus. 

The opportunities 
"This place 
is a 
goldmine," 
said 
Riesman. "Where else could I be head 
of a legitimate company at my age? I 
mean, WYBC has respect everywhere 
but Yale." 

WYBC has the greatest respect in 
New Haven, particularly in the black 
community. But perhaps more impor· 
tantly from a Yale student's point of 
view, WYBC has a good reputation in 
the radio industry. Dick Cavett and joe 
Smith of Elektral Asylum Records are 
both WYBC alums. As mentioned 
earlier WPLR went to the trouble of 
hiring away a portion of the WYBC air 
staff. Indeed, Paula Schneider, the Sta· 
tion Manager at WPLR, said that most 
of the people she had met from WYBC 
were "very fine people. I have been very 
impressed with a number of them." She 
also points out that a college education, 
in addition to previous radio ex-
perie~ce, is becoming increasingly im-
portant in the industry, 

WYBC's facilities also have a lot to 
offer. Despite the fact that the station 
receives no operating funds from the 
University, it has managed to maintain 
an impressive record library and has 
obtained a good, if not state of the art, 
collection of equipment. Both Riesman 
and Lopez insist that the equipment 
situation will improve significantly in 
the future. "We don't have the revenue 
from ads like WDCR has but then 
they're number one in their market. We 
don't have that opportunity here. It's 
good stuff, but it could be better," said 
Lopez. 

Succeaa? 
The success ofWYBC's current effort to 
attract students will depend largely on 
the revitalized AM station. Riesman 
and others are counting on it to be the 
main Yale link. "The AM is already 
providing the rock music most Yalies 
Jeff Strong-The New Journal 
WYBC General MatUJ.ger Diana Riesmo.n 
hopes to attract more students to the station 
want to hear. Also, we are already 
broadcasting every football 
game. 
We're just starting," Riesman said. She 
talks of adding more live 
sports 
coverage and perhaps increasing the 
AM broadcast hours. Much depends on 
more manpower. 

All is not well at the AM, however. 
At present the station can be received at 
only a very few locations on campus. 
Much of the station's transmitting 
system needs to be replaced. This will 
take a great deal of money, something 
the station does not have at the mo-
ment. Lopez says that attempts are be-
ing made to raise funds for the AM and 
also for new FM equipment, but as of 
yet there have been no measurable 
results. 

There are other problems with the 
AM. Not only do people complain they 
cannot hear the station, they feel that 
even where it can be received its 3:00 
p.m. to midnight schedule is not suffi-
cient to serve the community. As Dean 
Henson said, "The AM is a good step, 
but it is only a step." 

What Dean Henson and others want 
to see in the end are more students 
working at WYBC. But student recruit-
ment by the station and student access 
to station membership are both prob· 
lems. WYBC did not include informa-
tion in the information packet sent to 
freshmen over the summer and did not 
submit information to the Yale College 
Council Student Handbook for publica-
tion in the 1981-82 edition. Even if a 
student were to fmd out about WYBC it 
would still be necessary for him to at-
tend the station's six week training pro-
gram and then pass a test in order to 
become a member. Not only is the time 
commitment 
excessive 
for 
many 
students, but some who have attended 
part of the program had criticisms for 
the way it was run. The station is not 
blind to those criticisms. Lopez admit-
ted that the training program might be 
a deterrent to some students. 

"Wt; understand there might be a 
problem there," Lopez said. "We're 
thinking about bringing back the heel-
ing system the station used to use. We 
haven't made a decision yet." 

Finally, there remains some question 
as to the depth of the station's commit-
ment 
to bring in Yale 
Riesman and Lopez both leave their 
positions at the end of this month, and 
thus this situtation is basically out of 
their hands. Only time will tell what the 
new officers will do. 

While WYBC 
has made steps 
toward integrating Yale and its students 
into its operation, there has yet to be a 
concerted effort to complete the task. 
Without improvements in the AM and 
without a concerted effort to recruit 
students little will be accomplished. It 
remains to be seen if the station will ac-
tually take these steps, and if the Yale 
Broadcasting Company can offer 
opportunities and an .atmosphere that 
will attract Yale students- the people 
the station's charter says it is supposed 
to train. 

• 
Jim Lowe, a .freshman in Morse, was General 
MatUJ.ger of WSPS-FM, a ten watt staJion in 
Concord, New Hampshire.



**Title: Kathleen Cleaver**
**Author: Ed Emmett and Andy Court**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
16 
Kathlem Cleaver, a j unior at Yale, is the wife 
of former Black Panther leader Eldridge 
Cleaver. She returned to college this semester 
after a 15-year odyssey of activism and exile. 
After bnejly attmding Oberlin and Bar-
nard, Kathletm. worlcd for the Stw:knt Non-
violent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) in 
1966. She mam"ed Eldridge in 1967 and 
became communications secretary for the Black 
Panther Party. Four months after their mar-
riage, Eldridge was a"ested in connection 
with a shoot-out betwem Black Panther 
members and the Oakland Police. 

Eldridge Cleaver was evmtually released 
.from prison on a wn"t of habeas corpus, but 
when he was later ordrred to return, hefod the 
country. Kathlem met him in Algiers in 1969 
and they later moved to Paris. In 1975, 
Eldridge su"mdered to U.S. authon"ties, and 
returned to prison. His statements reflected 
such a change .from previous positions that 
critics charged he had sold out. Two years ago, 
he pleaded guilty to a reduced charge, and was 
smtmced to five years probation. 

Cu"mtly, Eldn"dge is writing, lectun"ng, 
and planning to run for mayor of Oakland in 
1984. Kathletm. is taking care of their two 
childrm, studying history at Yale and wn"ting 
her autobiography, On October 31, Ed Em-
nett and Andy Court intervUwed Kathletm. 
Cleaver in The New Journal offices m / 05 
Becton Cmter. 
Kathleen Cleaver~ 
The Cleavers with attorney Charles Garry outside of an Oakland Courthouse in September, 1968up-, 
NJ: W hen you and your husband 
decided to return to the States, you 
knew that meant that he was going to 
have to go to prison. 
Cleaver: Yes. It took about six weeks 
to make all the arrangements, and 
before he left, he knew what prison he 
was going to and the people in the 
Depanment of Justice that were respon-
sible. But, the three years before that, I 
had been going back and forth trying to 
get various attorneys in Washington or 
California or somewhere to do some-
thing so he could come back to the U.S. 
and be ou t on bail. After three years it 
became obvious that this was impossi-
ble. T hat was his desire; he preferred to 
come back and be free on bail, but he 
couldn't. So, he chose to come back and 
go to jail. 


**Title: Changing with the times**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

NJ: Why? Why that decision? 
Cleaver: Well, he didn't want to stay 
out of the U.S. any longer. Reagan 
wasn't governor in California any 
longer. They had a different governor; 
it was Jerry Brown. Nixon had been 
driven out of the White House in 
disgrace. John Mitchell, who was the 
chief architect of the whole repression 
that we were up against, had been con-
victed. I think he was in trial or else he 
had been convicted of obstruction of 
justice, which is about the mildest thing 
you can say about what he did. The 
CIA had been exposed. The commit-
• 
tees had come out and proved, and 
Senate investigations had documented, 
how the FBI and the CIA and other 
federal agencies had conducted surrep-
titious attacks in efforts to destroy the 
movement and organization and kill the 
leaders. All the hit lists that they had 
and tactics, all their documents were 
coming out. Even the FBI agents that 
accompanied Eldridge back on the 
airplane to New York said, "Who 
knows? We might be in jail together." 
They didn't know what was going to 
happen to them. All the stuff they were 
doing was illegal. 

NJ: They said this on the way back, on 
the plane? 
Cleaver: Yes. We knew; it wasn't any 
surprise to us. All these things were be-
ing done to us. If people are conspiring 
to kill you, you know it. If eight years 
later it comes out in the press, you 
know, the FBI conspired to kill you, 
you're not surprised. It's just that you 
feel vindicated, and that your point has 
been acknowledged. And, furthermore, 
they'd stopped. 

Also, the Vietnam War was over. A 
• lot of the polarization that our move-
ment was operating in, the very polar-
ized political and social situation where 
you had people vehemently and violent-
ly opposed to the Vietnam War, was 
gone. The whole system of confidence 
in the government had eroded, and by 
this time it was so low that the power 
relationship between the government 
and the citizen had changed a lot. 

NJ: You were no longer afraid that he 
might be killed in prison? 
Cleaver: No, well, not in the prison he 
was sent to. He was sent to a high 
security federal installation in San 
Diego. That wasn't the prison that he 
was supposed to go to when he left the 
country. He was supposed to go to San 
Quentin. 

NJ: When he came back to prison, 
what did you do? 
Cleaver: I packed up; I cleaned out 
our house and packed it up and stored 
the stuff. Then, I flew to Los Angeles. 

NJ: The two children? 
Cleaver: I had sent them earlier. 

NJ: They were old enough that you had 
to try to explain to them what was going 
on. 
Cleaver: Yes. 

NJ: Was it hard? 
Cleaver: It wasn't hard; they couldn't 
really understand. You can always tell 
them their Daddy's going to jail. They 
didn't get it. They didn't like Nixon too 
much. They figured somehow he was 
connected. They had a very infantile 
understanding, but they were there 
when he surrendered, so they saw him 
on television, they saw him being hand-
cuffed. They saw him being taken off. 
They'd go and visit him in jail. They 
wanted to know. They'd ask, "Daddy, 
did you kill somebody?" and he'd say 
"No." "Well, that's what they said on the 
news." You know these types of things. 
Rollin Riggs-The N- Journal 
Kalhken CWwn- today 
You know, there was a shoot-out. 
The case for which he was under indict-
ment was for participating in an en-
counter with the Oakland police in 
which one Black Panther was killed and 
eight Black Panther members were ar-
rested. I think there were 50 to 65 
(policemen] shooting at him. 

NJ: This is when your husband and 
Bobby Hutton were in a house? 
Cleaver: Yes, but there were other 
people there, they just ended up being 
trapped there. It was for that incident in 
Oakland for which he was going to 
stand trial. All the other people had 
already been tried, and the manner in 
which the case was handled was very 
hysterical. You can imagine "Armed 
black [men) in our city, threatening the 
police, threatening order.• The manner 
in which the police responded in 
Oakland exposed a lot of the things that 
the Black Panther party and the left 
were about, what they were against: 
violence. People hadn't really believed 


17 

"If eight years later It comes 
out In the press [that] the FBI 
conspired to kill you, you're 
not surprised." 

diat that's the way they operated until 
then. 

NJ: You're saying that the Black Pan-
thers were against violence at that 
point? 
Cleaver: They were against random 
and arbitrary police violence on the 
black community. Their position was 
that they should exercise self-defense. 
They shouldn't allow the police to be 
violent in the neighborhood. It became 
really a very vicious struggle over who 
was in charge. The police assumed they 
were in charge. They wanted to destroy 
any group that challenged their authori-
ty. The Panthers challenged it constant-
ly by their very existence. 

NJ: By carrying guns? 
Cleaver: At the time, that was legal, 
but they quickly insisted that the law be 
changed. So, the Panthers weren't car-
rying guns publicly, but they all owned 
guns. 

NJ: Was 
violence 
viewed as 
a 
legitimate means to achieve political 
ends? 
discrimination in terms of employment, 
education and housing. All of these 
things were very deliberately inter-
twined in a society that was violently 
disturbing black 
people. 

So, 
the 
response that the Black Panther party 
articulated was one of self-defense, not 
of passively protesting. If it came to a 
question of violence, then they should 
retaliate with violence. 

NJ: How did the transformation take 
place in your head from the non-violent 
and I was very idealistic. I had been 
brought up as a Christian; I was in a 
Quaker school and I really believed in 
the Bible. It seemed that there was a 
spiritual dimension in the civil rights 
struggle that I responded to. It was just 
for people not to be oppressed, so all we 
had to do was demonstrate to the people 
that they're doing wrong and by being 
gentle and Christian, you will shame 
your enemy into changing his ways. 
1 That's the basic philosophy of non-
violence. 

Cleaver: It's not that it's legitimate, 
but that it might be necessary. Prior to 
then, prior to the Black Panther party, 
the whole civil rights movement be-
lieved that they should pursue what 
they wanted by non-violent means. 
They should use political pressure, 
KaJhlem Cleaver takes notes in John Blum's Amenean Public Policy course 
marches, 
demonstrations, even civil 
disobedience. 

NJ: So what changed that? 
Cleaver: Well, the Black Panthers 
didn't believe that. We felt that all that 
had been accompanied by a lot of bru-
tality. The central issues, the real hard 
problems that black people had to deal 
with were crummy housing, indecent 
schools, total lack of political input, 
integrationalist tactics of Martin Luther 
King to the tactics of the Black Pan-
thers? 
Cleaver: When I became interested in 
the tactics of Martin Luther King, I was 
about 15 or 16 years old. 

NJ: This was in what year? 
Cleaver: 1962. I was in high school 

NJ: So what happened? How did that 
change? 
Cleaver: It didn't work that well. The 
enemy didn't seem to get transformed 
quickly enough. 

NJ: But it did get some specific legisla-
tion: the Voting Rights Act of 1965, the 
Civil Rights Act. Things were moving. 
... 
18



**An Interview with Kathleen Cleaver**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
Cleaver: Yes, but at the age of 20, 
there's nothing that can move fast 
enough if you think that your people 
have been oppressed and enslaved and 
held down for 400 years by these vicious 
United States. 

NJ: So your attitude changed before 
you met Eldridge? 

Cleaver: Yes. It seemed to me that the 
way to rearrange things was through 
war. When people reach the point that 
they won't respect you, they won't give 
you what you want and they won't be 
reasonable, then just shoot them. Then, 
you can talk to them. 

NJ: Shoot first and ask questions later? 

Cleaver: No. If you make it clear that 
you're not going to be pushed around 
any more, that anyone who tries will be 
shot, it changes the dialogue a lot. 

NJ: Then what happened? 

Cleaver: The entire weight of the 
government was thrown against it (the 
movement] and eventually that weight 
suppressed it and broke it apart. It 
wasn't that organized to begin with. It 
didn't destroy the beliefs in the people, 
but it did destroy the manner in which 
they could carry them out in an 
organized fashion. Once that happens, 
in my case anyway, you ask questions. 
What if the whole government dropped 
dead and said O.K., it's all yours, you 
change it? Could this group of revolutionaries have done it? Frankly I don't 
think so. 

NJ: Why? 

Cleaver: Because they were so busy 
trying to destroy something. There 
were two reasons why they failed. One, 
they didn't understand what they were 
trying to destroy. They only had a partial 
appreciation of it. The other thing, 
the destruction of it won't be the total 
solution to the problem. The problem 
they were protesting in a large part was 
a spiritual problem which will exist 
regardless of your economic, political, 
or social structure. They will always 
manifest themselves in different ways. 
People kill and hate and try to ruin each 
other's happiness in any society. This is 
not limited to the United States of 
America. 


those societies. You have a different 
perspective. 

NJ: Did the transformation of you and 
your husband's ideas happen fairly 
parallel when you lived abroad? 

Cleaver: Probably, but not consciously. 
He seemed to be more radically 
changed. He was more vocal about it. 
My change was less articulate and more 
personal. I got tired of people ripping 
me off and telling me lies. I had to re-
examine who were these people who 
claimed to be revolutionary. 

NJ: Were you religiously moved? 

Cleaver: Yes, yes. 

NJ: Do you think being forced to live 
outside the society for so many years 
changed your view of America? 

Cleaver: Yes. It made it look a lot better. 
You get to make some realistic comparisons. 
That's what happened to Eldridge in a lot 
of ways. He got to see the Soviet Union 
and the communist world and the Third 
World and Europe. He saw that America 
was a lot better off in many respects than 
any of


NJ: But did what was happening to 
your political ideas somehow tie into 
what was happening to your religious 
ideas? 

Cleaver: It could be. My religious ideas 
had been abandoned about the time of 
my graduation from high school. I was 
18. By the time my revolutionary ideas 
started collapsing, they were revived. In 
a way I was startled to discover that 
things I thought I no longer believed I 
still did believe. The character of some 
people who claimed to be revolutionary 
was very disturbing to me. They were 
doing things and saying things I really 
couldn't go along with. I had to realize 
that the reason I couldn't go along with 
it was because there was a conflict in 
values. 

NJ: What specific religious values? 

Cleaver: That you should be generous 
and kind, you shouldn't shoot and steal, 
that you shouldn't lie. All revolutionaries 
lie. 

NJ: Propaganda? 

Cleaver: Yes, they talk only about the 
negative qualities of the thing they're 
opposing, and they're not going to be 
able to present a balanced view. The 
truth is lost. That began to disturb me. 

NJ: You were communications 
secretary, so you were aware of this. It 
was your job. 

Cleaver: Yes. 

NJ: So you were lying? 

Cleaver: No, it wasn't so much that I 
was lying, but it became clear to me 
that revolutionaries require lying. It 
wasn't so much the Black Panthers. I 
didn't think so much that we were lying, 
but we were only talking about the bad 
stuff. The enemy. We were making the 
United States government our enemy 
by only talking about the most terrible 
aspects of it. We never gave any credit 
to anything good. The black and white: 
that's a distortion. After I'd been in 
Paris I was reading a lot of radical 
newspapers and newsletters from all of 
them, and the communist stuff would 
always say they won. Their newsletters 
were not valid. 

NJ: What did they charge when you 
came back and your husband went to 
prison? 

Cleaver: They charged that he was an 
agent, that he had made a deal. 

NJ: Did they charge this against you 
personally also? 

Cleaver: I must have been in there 
somewhere. I think some Communist 
made a statement that my father 
worked for the CIA. 

NJ: How did you feel about that? Did 
you feel betrayed? 

Cleaver: I thought it was rather absurd. 
I didn't feel betrayed. I felt that 
people were just saying stuff that they 
didn't know anything about. People 
love to do that. That's their favorite activity. 

NJ: When you look back at the 1960s, 
do you see yourself in that mold? 

Cleaver: As a person who doesn't 
know? Sure, but I was only twenty-one. 
I knew a lot for 21, but maybe just not 
enough. 

NJ: Do you think it was a combination 
of being young and the times? 


NJ: You would say you were naive? 

Cleaver: No more than anyone else. I 
was a lot less naive than some people, 
but I was naive. We were all naive. 
That's why we were revolutionaries. 

NJ: But the decision that you made 
then really affected your life in a very 
serious way. 

Cleaver: They did. They also affected 
my outlook on life. They still affect my 
outlook on life, but I'm older, and I see 
there are explanations and historical 
processes that operate in any society to 
the disadvantage of somebody. 

NJ: You have no contacts with the 
radicals anymore? 

Cleaver: What do you mean by that? 
Why do you ask me that question? 

NJ: I meant more in terms of the people 
who used to be Black Panthers who 
you still see. 

Cleaver: I know some, but the people 
I'm in touch with are no longer Black 
Panthers. 

NJ: What are they doing? 

Cleaver: Everything. They're raising 
families, going to school, working for 
the government. 

NJ: Are they activists anymore? 

Cleaver: No, they're all too busy. 

NJ: Are you active anymore politically? 

Cleaver: No. 

NJ: Why not? 

Cleaver: Well, I'm busy. 

NJ: Busy with what? 

Cleaver: Raising my kids, going to 



school. I've been working. If you decide 
to live within a society as a responsible 
citizen, then you get all the burdens. If 
you want to destroy your society, you 
don't get caught up in it, and you don't 
want to be a part of it. You just want to 
stir up the people inside to be against it 
and challenge everybody. If you don't 
do that, then you become a part of 
society. That's why I've been so busy. 

NJ: You've only been here a little 
while. 

Cleaver: About 12 weeks. 

NJ: You dropped out of college twice. 
Why? Because it seemed irrelevant? 

Cleaver: Yes, it was boring, dull, cold. 
It didn't seem to relate to what the world 
was about. 

NJ: Do you find that it's relevant now? 


NJ: Do you think it's a change in place, 
in institution, or is it the way you're approaching it? 

Cleaver: I think I have a better ability 
to select things to study that are relevant 
now. 

In the last 20 years, a lot of things 
have changed, but they haven't changed 
right away. A lot of attitudes have 
changed; practices have changed. 
They've changed a lot more quickly 
than they would have in any other 
society. That's the thing that's really intriguing to me: how is it possible that 
America can change so quickly in so 
many things? And, at the same time, 
not change really. The rock bottom 
stays the same. It's absolutely 
fascinating to me. I'd like to study that. 
The fact that I'm intrigued by that and 
I've observed that makes the things that 
I study more interesting to me. I'm 
looking for certain pieces of information. 

NJ: You can make the connection between history and people's lives. 


NJ: I think today we sometimes have 
trouble making that connection, 
because history hasn't imposed itself on 
our lives. 

Cleaver: Well, it has, but you don't 
know it. There are a lot of things you 
take for granted. 

NJ: It hasn't clobbered us yet. 

Cleaver: No, but it looks like it just 
might. Don't worry, I think that you 
might get a chance for history to clobber 
you, too. 

NJ: I was just wondering whether since 
you've been in classes with a number of 
Yale students, and I'm sure you've had 
a chance to talk with them, do you 
perceive the differences? 

Cleaver: I can't judge, because when I 
was 18 or 19 and in college, I was with 
other people like me. Now, I'm different. 
Students seem kind of nebulous. They 
don't know one way or the other what 
they're going to be. What they are one 
week they might be different the next. 
They're not really fixed on anything. I 
think I was, in a way, a lot more fixed on 
certain things. 

NJ: I'm very interested in what you 
said earlier about students today being 
more sophisticated. Do you perceive us 
as being more selfish? 

Cleaver: Yes, you're not spiritual and 
idealistic. Some are, but we all were. 
We did believe in democracy and 
things. Do you think about that stuff? I 
guess it was romantic. Maybe that was 
the difference. Your generation isn't 
very romantic. They listen to that terrible, 
disgusting music, like what my son 
listens to. 

NJ: What did you listen to? 

Cleaver: What my parents thought 
was terrible and disgusting: rock and 
roll. I don't listen to it anymore, that's 
the difference. I also listen to jazz. Now 
I like to listen to the symphony. Maybe 
it has to do with age. 

NJ: For someone who was an activist-and I feel you're not a revolutionary 
anymore, but you still consider 
yourself an activist, someone who'd be 
willing to become involved again-
doesn't it disturb you to see people who 
are much more oriented along career 
and personal lines, but not political 
lines? 

Cleaver: Everybody talks about it. 

NJ: It's a cliche. 

Cleaver: Yes. You ask me if that's 
disturbing. I'm not sure, because I 
think I need to know what kinds of 
attitudes and people are they who are 
going to become the future. What kinds 
of attitudes are they going to exhibit as 
lawyer, businessman, surgeon, politician? 
If they are really humane and really 
people who are concerned about their 
schools, their neighbors, the environment, 
then they'll take positive steps. If the 
issue arises that they're not, and they 
don't care; they're out to make money; 
they're out for themselves; that's very 
destructive and alienating. If they want 
to participate in a destructive and 
alienating way, they have an enormous 
opportunity to do that. That's disturbing 
to me. My generation didn't want to 
participate as professionals within that 
kind of society. We'd rather change it. 
We'd rather spend our time figuring out 
how to get rid of that stuff than helping 
it grow. There's a revolutionary 
undercurrent in America. It pops up and 
it goes away, and then it pops up again. 

NJ: It's like a phoenix. 

Cleaver: Yes, it is. Every time it pops 
up it gets completely destroyed. 

NJ: There will probably be another 
spurt. 

Cleaver: Probably. 

NJ: And it will mess up a lot of peoples' 
lives. Did it mess up your life? 

Cleaver: Well, it made a big dent in it, 
but I don't think it messed it up. 

NJ: I'm very interested about-

Cleaver: Why I'm in college at the 
same time as you? I don't mind the fact 
that I'm in school and I have to go back 
and start over. That's not the worst 
thing in the world. There are a lot of 
people who didn't even survive. Their 
lives really are messed up. They're in a 
penitentiary and they're going to be 
there for the rest of their lives. They're 
in the underground. 

NJ: Could that have happened to you? 

Cleaver: Yes, it could have happened, 
easily. 

NJ: Do you think about that a lot? 

Cleaver: No, it's not the kind of thing 
you want to dwell on. I think about it; 
I'm very conscious of it. I'm very happy 
that it didn't happen to me. 

NJ: Now you're working on your 
autobiography? 

Cleaver: Yes, I think this deserves 
one. It would take a while to explain all 
of this. 




**Title: FIVE FROM YALE**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
22 
FIVE FROM YALE 
Mary Chesnut's 
Civil War 
edited by C. Vann Woodward 
"Perhaps one of the half dozen or 
so most important diaries in all 
literature; if you will, a Southern 
'War and Peace':'-Reid Beddow, 
The Washington Post Book World 
"A book to curl up with over a whole 
lifetime:· -Selma R. Williams, 
The Boston Globe $29.95 
The Yale Review 
Kai T. Erikson, editor 
The Yale-Review publishes distin-
guished articles on matters of gen-
eral intellectual interest, along 
with original and exciting new 
works of poetry and short fiction. 
An extensive book review section 
highlights noteworthy new books 
of nonfiction, fiction, and poetry in 
review-essays by rioted critics and 
in shorter reviews in the "Reader's 
Guide" section. 
Individuals: Sl2/year (4 issues) 
Single copies: $4.00 


**Title: Criticism in the Wilderness**
**Author: Geoffrey H. Hartman**

Criticism in the 
Wilderness 
The Study of Literature Today 
Geoffrey H. Hartman 
"Criticism in the Wilderness may 
be the best, most brilliant, most 
broadly useful book yet written by 
an American about the sudden 
swerve from the safety of estab-
lished decorum toward bravely 
theoretical, mainly European forms 
of literary criticism:'-Terrence 
Des Pres, The Nation 
$18.00 


**Title: New in Paper**
**Author: Bruce A. Ackerman**

New in Paper 
Social Justice in the 
Liberal State 
Bruce A. Ackerman 
"An outstanding contribution to 
political philosophy in general and 
an impressive defense of liberalism 
as a creed .... A brilliant book:' 
-D.O. Raphael, The Times Higher 
Education Supplement 
"The br.eadth of the attack on the 
fundamental issues of man and 
society is impressive."-f oreign 
A ffairs $6.95 


**Author: John Hollander**

Rhyme's Reason 
A guide to English Verse 
John Hollander 
The distinguished poet and critic 
here surveys the schemes, patterns, 
and forms of English verse, illus-
trating each variation with an orig-
inal and wittily self-descriptive 
example. 
"How lucky to be the young poet 
who discovers this wisest and most 
lighthearted of manuals." 
-James Merrill 
"The most useful guide of its kind in 
years. It is at once comprehensive, 
lucid, concise and fun." - G.E. 
Murray, Chicago Sun-Times $3.95 


**Title: Profile: Joel Schiavone**
**Author: Linda Schupack**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

Profile: Joel Schiavone 
developing downtown 
Linda Schupack 
The members of "B. B . Hind and the 
Blue Mooners" do not have to worry 
about finding a New Haven gig. Their 
guitarist, J oel Schiavone, owns New 
H aven R estaurant. 
And quite a bit more. 
Since he became active in New 
H aven development four years ago, 
Schiavone, Yale '58, has become a main 
mover in the downtown revitalization 
effort. H e owns over $5 million in New 
Haven real estate and his interests in-
clude the New Haven Restaurant, the 
New Haven Nighthawks, and the Con-
necticut Limosine Service. 
Although he owns eight corporations, 
Schiavone eschews the staid and stodgy 
three-piece suited business world, atten-
ding meetings clad in khakis and lzods. 
Several years ago, he sent a Christmas 
card which featured him in somber pin-
stripes standing next to his office desk. 
A n engraved insert explained that he 
had been asked for an official portrait. 
No lamb in wolfs clothing, Sch iavone 
had the inside of the card show the same 
scene-except his back was to the 
camera, stark naked. 
Not everyone appreciates Schiavone's 
style. 
"When you're dealing with the con-
servative banking community," said 
one city staffer, "it basically comes down 
to the fact that he doesn't wear socks. 
"He is erratic. H e's in two different 
bands and he's appeared on the Green 
in a tutu. Bankers have to ask, 'Do we 
want to be out on the line several 
million dollars in mortgage money on 
him?'" 
Schiavone recognizes that his per-
sonal style may be difficult for the 
business community to accept, but says 
people eventually come around. Com-
Arut C/tU11 
NruJ H aDen tkv~loptr, busitUsmuur, banjo player, jOt[ SchiavotU 

23 

"It basically comes down to 
the fact that he doesn't wear 
socks." 

menting on the infamous pink tutu that 
he sported at the New Haven Bed 
Race, Schiavone smiled sheepishly and 
said, "I've had my moments. It's too bad 
I don't have a photo. I've got great legs." 
Schiavone was not always a colorful 
character in New Haven. A self-
described "non-entity" at Yale, he ex-
plained, "I didn't go to the right prep 
school and I did not do the right things. 
I always felt kind of awkward." 
In Silliman, Schiavone played intra-
mural soccer and tennis. When he ven-
tured out of the confines Of Yale it was 
not necessary to frequent downtown 
New Haven night spots. 
"I went to girls' colleges-Conn. Col-
lege and Smith. There was no reason. I 
just didn't have anything else to do." 
Schiavone doesn't blame Yale entire-
ly for his ambivalent feelings. "I was not 
a very mature person at the time. Fif-
teen years later, I became secretary of 
the class and am still. I met a large 
number of people I was sure I didn't like 
and now I found out I like them." 
After graduating from Harvard 
Business School in 1961, Schiavone 
took a temporary leave of absence from 
the family scrap metal business. Unable 
to get a banjo gig in Boston, he bought 
his own bar. In a matter of several 
years, over a dozen Your Father's 
Mustaches- a 
gay 
Nineties style 
pub- stretched across the United States 
and Europe. 
Schiavone phased out most of the 
clubs by the early seventies. "The old-
time nostalgia was selling less and less. 
Drugs and hard rock were not a part of 
our philosophy of life." 
The realization that night-club night 
life was not conducive to a wife and 
child brought Schiavone back to the 
family business that he now owns with 
his brother. The company diversified in 
1974, and soon Joel Schiavone scrap 
metal alchemist was also owner of the 
Shoreline Times, Connecticut Limosine 
Service, and the New Haven 
Nighthawks. 
Beginning in 
1978, 
Schiavone 
strategically bought up properties in 
what he considered "the emotional 
heart" of downtown New Haven. By 
showing his faith in the economic vitali-
ty of the city, Schiavone hoped to lure 
other investors downtown. 
.. 
Rollin Rlgga-Yale Dally N-• 
&hiavone, dressed here in a pinlc tutu for 
the New Haven Bed Race 
Schiavone renovated two run-down 
downtown buildings which now house 
Bryan Alden and the New Haven Rest-
aurant. The New Haven Restaurant 
with all its New Haven memorabilia ex-
emplifies Schiavone's role in the city. 
With its slogan, "A great town-A great 
restaurant," it sells not only french fried 
ice cream but an image of the city as 
well. 
Currently, Schiavone's main projects 
are the Elisha Blackman building on the 
corner of York and Chapel and the 
Warner building across from the Art 
and Architecture building, plans for 
commercial space on the bottom and 
either esidential or office space above. 
The Warner building will also have 
stores on the first floor and twenty-two 
luxury apartments above. Using photos 
of the buildings in 1895, Schiavone will 
attempt to have it look exactly as it did 
in that era. 
In the future, Schiavone plans to tum 
the College St./Crown St. area into an 
entertainment district. He has brought 
up buildings surrounding the Shubert 
Theater and proposed to convert the 
Roger Sherman Theater, across the 




**Schiavone: Developer**
**Author: Lindo. Schupack**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
street, into a performing arts complex. 

Financial negotiations with the city 
have been strained in the past, but talks 
have resumed recently. H e anticipates 
an important announcement regarding 
its status later this year. 

Schiavone has been criticized for not 
living up to his visions. 
"He came on the scene, two or three 
years 
ago, 
as Mr. 
Downtown 
Developer. H e built an image that I 
don't think is sustained by his perfor-
mance," said Andrew Houlding, 
managing editor of the New Haven Ad-
vocilU. 
"The image is that he'll spend a lot of 
money to do things right. The fact 
is-either he doesn't pay attention to the 
specifics of the work or he had no inten-
tion of doing it in the first place." 

The AdoocilU had run a story in 
March detailing thr- Schiavone Realty 
and Development Corporation's viola-
tion of fire codes at 1044 C hapel St. Fire 
escapes were in disrepair and workmen 
had nailed fire escape doors shut, accor-
ding to Houlding. A Legal Assistance 
lawyer said the Corporation moved to 
force tenants out of the building by rais-
ing rents before renovations were com-
pleted. The Schiavone Realty and 
Development Corporation has been in-
volved in 17 eviction cases since 1976. 

Critics also point out that it is taking 
Schiavone more than three years to 
renovate the Blackman building, dur-
ing which time it has been left an ugly, 
gutted hulk. 

Schiavone admits that development 
is a "slower process than rd imagined. 
rve only been involved in real estate for 
four years, and the past two to three 
have been an cilisolute disaster from a 
development point of view.• Interest 
rates have risen from eight to 21 per-
cent. 
"It's impossible to do developr;nent 
work without mortgage money. Neather 
Yale nor any finanical institution has 
made any attempt to provide mortgage 
money in downtown New Haven. 
Unless someone in the city takes the 
leadership, it's going to prolong the pro-
cess ad infinitum." 

Some see Schiavone's impulsiveness 
as his real problem. 
"In his three buildings on Crown and 
College St., he had the tenants out and 
the demolition started before the finan-
cial package was together," said a city 
government source. "This is not the 
conservative 'one step at a time' theory 
operating. It basically guarantees the 
building sitting vacant for a while." 

The tendency to change seemingly
attitudes 
is 
characteristic of -----------------
Schiavone. "It can be very positive in 
that it gives him a flexibility, but it also 
means you can't pin him down. You 
think a building is going to be commer-
cial on the first floor and residential 
above, then you discover it's all residen-
tial. There are code implications in this 
change." said a source in city govern-
ment. 

H enry Milone, owner of Gentree, 
Ltd. and The Brewery, offers another 
perspective on Schiavone's protean 
tendency. "He never answers your 
questions, 
but 
he'll 
navigate you 
towards 
solving your own. 
He 
somehow instills the interest and en-
thusiasm 
to 
answer the 
question t-----------------
yourself. You leave saying 'Yes, there is 
an answer and I can find it myself.'" 

Milone sees the showman side of 
Schiavone as an "escape from the 
methodical very calculated life he 
leads.'' For four hours a day he's flam-
boyant, Milone says; he spends the re-
maining time concentrating on the con-
cer_ns of eight major corporations. 

Schiavone's self-awareness impresses 
Milone. "Joel took me to Boston, to a 
class on family-held corporations at 
Harvard. It was a case study course and 
they were studying his. I sat in on the 
lecture he gave and was amazed at his 
awareness of who he is, his honesty 
regarding his limitations, and his can-
didness about his abilities. • 

Schiavone has indeed reflected on his 
activities, past and present. 
"There's an enormous amount of ego 
involved," he said. "When I was at Yale, 
I had a lot of inferiority and insecurity. 
Growing up meant getting out all those 
anxieties. You'll find most people who 
work hard- make a lot of money-
have a psychological drive that forces 
them onward and up. rm no different 
than anyone else." 

• 
Lindo. Schupadc, a junwr in Silliman, has 
written for the Vineyard Gazette.


**Research----The tiniest wires**
**Author: Timothy Misner**
**Page number(s): 26**

In the last ten years, no area of 
technology has changed how Americans 
live and work more than microelectron-
ics, which each year has produced 
smaller, cheaper, more sophisticated 
devices, ranging from wrist-watches to 
computers. But industry is gradually 
approaching the limit of how much cir-
cuitry it can cram onto a tiny silicon 
chip using today's most advanced 
technique. As researchers discover new 
ways to make smaller structures, they 
find that the materials they work with 
behave differently. 

At Yale, Professor of Engineering 
and Applied Science Daniel Prober is 
working with some of the smallest elec-
tronic structures ever made. His 
research has shown that the resistance 
of very thin wires increases as the 
temperature is lowered, the direct op-
posite of what happens with thicker 
wires. In fact, a thin wire can change. 
from being a conductor at room tem-
perature to being an insulator at 
temperatures close to absolute zero. 

In order to study this unusual proper-
ty, 
Prober pioneered several new 
techniques in microfabrication. He and 
associates M.D. Feuer and N. Gior-
~~-METAL FILM 
I-GLASS 
L-.-------' 
Ar+! 
... 
~ 
..... 
.... ,,.., 
a) 
ijssssssss] 
b) 
f"SSS''' 
. 
WIRE'-. 
__ ....,;,gr-..--,] 
I 
-
Description of 1M lithographic process used 
to make tiny wires. 
dano made a major breakthrough two 
years ago when they found a way to 
construct a true thin wire, ten-thousand 
times smaller than a strand of hair, 
becoming the world's smallest wire. 

Though it can only make simple struc-
tures, Prober's technique can define 
features 20 times smaller than the most 
common industrial technique. These 
structures are so small that he examines 
his work using an electron m icroscope, 
and even then it appears a little fuzzy. 

To make a thin, metal wire, Prober 
first creates a microscopic step on a 
glass slide. He covers the step with a 
metal film and then shoots Argon ions 
at the slide from an angle. The ions eat 
away all the exposed metal, but they 
cannot reach a thin sliver protected by 
the step. The idea is a simple one. 
When someone shines a flash!ight down 
a flight of stairs, a certain area of each 
step remains 
shaded. 
Similarly, 
P rober's step shades an area from the 
ions, and that is where the wire is 
formed. 

Prober became interested in studying 
thin wires when he heard Dr. D.]. 
Thouless, 
a 
renowned 
theoretical 
physicist, speak at Yale. T houless ex-
plained his theory that thin wires would 
stop conducting electricity as 
the 
temperature approaches absolute zero. 
But before Probq could conduct any 
experiments, he had to fmd a way to 
make them. 

Strangely enough, Prober's inspira-
tion for making thin wires struck him 
while standing in the fourth floor men's 
room of Becton Center. 
"I remember I was thinking of smear-
ing a wire against a step, just like you 
apply puddy to a window edge," said 
Prober. "Then it occurred to me-coat 
the whole window with puddy and then 
remove everything, except [the puddy] 
along the edge of the window . . . As 
soon as I thought of it, I knew it was 
right." 

Once they had the small wires, they 
proceeded to test Thouless' theory and 
found it, despite some quantitative dif-
ferences, to be correct. The Yale ex-
perimentalists were the first to prove 
this, scooping Lincoln Labs, Bell Lab -
and IBM, all of which have greater 
facilities and resources. 


**Prober's Research**
**Author: Rollin Riggs**
**Page number(s): 27**

Dr. Danitl Prober iU home in his lab 

Prober also applied his technique to 
creating a special electronic circuit 
called ajosephsonjunction, which may 
one day be a key component in a new 
breed of computers. In the nearer 
future, 
they 
will 
be 
the sensing 
elements of the most precise magno-
tometers, which measure magnetic 
fields, and microwave detectors, which 
fingerprint the molecular components 
of stars. 

A 
Many of the practical applications of 
techniques developed today may not 
materialize for 10 to 20 years. But even 
more importantly, before engineers can 
build extremely small electronic 
devices, researchers, like Daniel Pro-
ber, will have to discover the basic 
physical relationships at these small size 
scales. 

Because scientists are just beginning 
to investigate that end of the physical 
world, Prober is optimistic about the 
future. 
"There are a huge number of scien-
tific experiments that are yet to be 
created, let alone carried out. And as 
our capabilities for doing experiments 
extends down towards the molecular 
size scale, we can hope for a whole new 
realm of scientific exploration. Within 
20 years, we will be able to conduct ex-
periments at the same size scale as one 
does genetic engineering." 

Tim Misner is afreshman in &rkeley.


Hey! Are you ready for 
some home cooking again? 
Come to Claire's Corner Copia 
. for homemade soups, quiches, 
cookies, muffins, cakes and mexican 
foods .•. And tell Mom you're 
eating right. 
Claire's ~ ~ 
1000 Chapel St. 
1. 
at College 
\~ 'd .: 
Daily 8 a.m. - 10 p.m.


A NEW PLACE TO EAT! 
Pizzeria 
Pizza, spaghetti, 
grinders, pasta 
25°/o OFF 
WITH THIS AD 
Calami over linguine 
Lasagna 
376 Elm St., New Haven, CT 
Tel. 777-3609 
Gnocchi 
Veal Parmigianna 


CUT•STYLE•PERMS 
•WASH 
BLOW DRY & 
MORE 
HAIRCUTTERS 
FOR THE YALE REP 
Ul)isex IJaircuttdS 
Appomtments Preferred 
1146 Chapel Street 
624-7198



**Title: A club that won't quit**
**Author: Ed Sevilla**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
It has been two years since men's gymnastics lost varsity sport status, and a year and a half since he has last been employed, yet Don Tonry returns daily to Payne-Whitney Gymnasium to volunteer his time as coach of the men's gymnastics club. 

After founding the Yale gymnastics program, and spending 18 years as a coach and physical education instructor, Tonry was told in 1978 that budget cuts forced the Athletic Department to terminate his position and reduce his sport to club status. Tonry took his case to a University grievance committee, which found his dismissal "not just" and called for his retention as men's gymnastics coach. However, the University declined to act on the committee's ruling, saying the committee had exceeded its authority. In 1978 Tonry sued Yale for breach of contract and age discrimination, but in 1980 a Connecticut District Court upheld the University. 
At the same time Tonry was striken by multiple sclerosis, whose attacks, although never immobilizing, have at various times caused numbness, loss of speech, and partial blindness. 

After all this, why does Tonry volunteer to coach gymnastics at Yale? "Initially I did it to keep my sanity," he said. "I kept doing what I'd always been doing. I also felt an obligation, a guilt feeling I guess, towards the kids on the team I'd recruited." 

Tonry says he harbors no ill feelings towards Yale. "I would like to be very bitter. But I've spent my whole teaching career here; I have a strong attachment to Yale. You have to, right? Also, I don't really know any other gym. I've been coming here for the past 20 years." 

Don Tonry's commitment to the sport of gymnastics began at age 14 when he wandered into a Brooklyn YMCA and first saw a gymnastics class. Tonry went on to compete for the University of Illinois, winning the 1956 NCAA all-around competition. He has competed in three World Games and two Pan-American Games, and in 1960 he was a member of the United States Olympic Team. 

Tonry's experience is part of what makes him an excellent coach, club members say. "Don is probably one of the top two or three men's gymnastics coaches in the nation," said Dan Leahy, captain of the men's gymnastics club. "He essentially grew up with the sport. He personally knows the people who have invented the new moves in recent years. He's the kingpin, the pillar-there's certainly no better." 

Tonry and his wife Barbara, the coach of the women's varsity, have created a unique gymnastics team spirit. "Don and Barb have been the surrogate parents of the club," said Kevin Shrock, defending Ivy League all-around champion. "We've gone to the Tonrys' house for club dinners and to see old gymnastics films- that adds to the family atmosphere. It makes the club work together a lot better. It makes it fun to work out." 

This spirit keeps men's gymnastics alive at Yale, for the program has been hurt by the loss of varsity status. "We lost four things when we became a club sport," said Tonry. "We lost a coaching position, which is the most important factor. We lost money-now individuals must purchase their own uniforms; and if they can't afford to we look sloppy on the floor. We lose publicity-students aren't recognized as athletes. Because the level of competition among club sports varies, newspapers don't want club sports results. And we lose recruiting power automatically. Any athlete who wants to compete and study obviously goes to a school where they have both." 

"We haven't had any recruits for two years," said Dan Leahy. "I know of a couple of gymnasts who were accepted by Yale, but went elsewhere because we don't have a varsity program. This year four or five freshmen and sophomores have been coming out, but none have much experience." 

For the inexperienced men's gymnastics club, then, victory is no longer the primary goal. "We lost three seniors to graduation, and generally we lack depth," said Coach Tonry. "Of the twelve people in the club, five are beginners. I like to teach, but it's difficult. You look forward to winning, and suddenly the prospect is no longer there. It's difficult for the club and the coach, it takes the hope away. You do it for the sheer enjoyment of doing it." 

"Our goals have changed since we've lost our talented guys," said Dan Leahy. "We're going to have a good club, lots of fun, with excellent individual performances." He pointed out Shrock, George Ostrow on the pommel horse, Adam Chin on the rings, and Bill Quinn in vaulting as examples of individual achievers. "We're not win-oriented," he said. "Our goal now is individual highlights, having a good time, and doing our best." 

"Gymnastics is not like football or basketball, where you either win or you lose," continued Leahy. "There's room for individual improvement in meets. We're not in it to be heroes. The type of rewards we're after are types that can be satisfied if the club doesn't win." 

But some club members wonder if the relaxed, less competitive tone of Yale men's gymnastics is enough to keep the program going. "The future of men's gymnastics at Yale is very unclear," said Leahy, a senior. "There is interest in the program- we've got a bunch of new guys, and we've had three prospective inquiries. Right now the program is kept together due to Dan's contribution of his free time. If he can keep up, the program could grow." 

So the future of the Yale men's gymnastics program depends upon its founder, Don Tonry. "I'm working with lots of beginners again, and it's tough," he said. "As long as I'm up here, I suppose I'll do something. Without me, the people would train. But they would have no direction." 

Ed Sevilla is a senior in Davenport College.


**Title: Thinking through China's revolution**
**Author: Stephen Long**
**Page number(s): 30**

The Gate of Heavenly Peace by Jonathan Spence
1981 Viking Press 465 pp.

Cheers, the thousands of mountains and rivers, all liberated now,
Unfurl the glowing red flag with five gold stars
Chairman Mao waves his hand at the Gate of Heavenly Peace;
In an instant, history has rolled away so many centuries.
- Lu Ping, 1962

At the South entrance of the old Imperial palace in Peking stands the Gateway of Heavenly Peace, which Chinese history professor Jonathan Spence has chosen as an emblem of the changes in China during 85 years of revolution and the title for his latest book. In The Gate of Heavenly Peace, the political and social upheaval from 1895 to 1980 forms a backdrop for an exquisite portrayal of the lives of several of China's most distinguished writers, philosophers and intellectuals. 

Spence makes his account personal and interesting by focusing on three individuals who tried to make sense of their lives in this turbulent period. Kang Youwei was a Confucian scholar and political activist who struggled to revitalize the dying Ch'ing monarchy. Lu Xun was a brilliant novelist and journalist during the period of warlordism and the subsequent struggle against Japan. Ding Ling, a feminist, became a major spokesman and critic of Mao's regime. 

These intellectuals appear as adventurous, romantic figures who were willing to make difficult life decisions as they saw the results of China's social turmoil. Ding Ling suffered through the arrest and murder of her lover, Hu Yepin, by the Guomintang. Even in these circumstances, Ding managed to continue writing. Ultimately, she decided to stake her fortunes with the Communist party. Her decision was perilous, for at the time of her arrival the Communists were in acute danger of being exterminated. Kang Youwei had stridently urged that China avoid bloodshed by enacting peaceful, gradual political changes. But he came to despise a dictator, Yuan Shikai, so profoundly that he joined in assassination intrigues against the ruler. Lu Xun, while studying medicine in Japan, realized that China's weakness lay in its impoverished spirit; he returned to China to pursue writing. 

Burdened with a broader historical vision than that possessed by the ruling elite, the intellectuals were often frustrated in the activist political roles. Kang Youwei repeatedly petitioned the surrogate Empress Dowager Cixi to instigate political reforms in order to ward-off disaster, but the conservative empress would not listen. Kang then made a futile attempt to restore the boy emperor Guangxu to the throne. The attempted insurrection was a disaster. 45 years later, Ding Ling found herself wavering in her loyalty to the Communists. She published an essay criticizing the regime. Women, she wrote, were not entirely emancipated in the new order: party cadres sneered at women who sought a career or refused to marry. In response, Mao quickly removed Ding from her editorial position and demanded that she and other intellectuals reflect on their attitudes concerning the Communist Party. 

Ding Ling gave in and recanted. 

Other characters emerge in Spence's account. Xu Zhimo's life, for instance, was both comic and very tragic. Xu came to the U.S. to study at Columbia, and then moved his residence to Cambridge, where he met notable aesthetes



**The Gate of Heavenly Peace**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
and fell in love with the wntmgs of 
Shelley. He returned to China, deter-
mined to discover an aesthetic spirit. In 
a period of brutality and hunger, Xu 
believed that China's hope lay in poetry 
and in the fearlessness and infinitude 
within the individual. 

Spence manages to combine these 
diverse elements of characters' lives into 
a cohesive portrait. His narrative moves 
freely from character to character; like a 
novel, its interest increases as more 
characters are introduced and they 
begin to interact. 

It seems a pattern is emerging in 
Spence's works. In The Death of Woman 
Wang, Spence explored the limitations 
and brutality of early Ch'ing life 
through the story of a woman who tried 
to run away from her husband. In both 
books, he presents history, not as a con-
tinuum of causes and effects, but rather 
as a collection of individual experiences. 
The reader of The Gate of Heavenly Peace 
feels a deep empathy with the events in 
• 
China because of this humanist ap-
proach. 
Stephen Long is a junior in Saybrook. 



--- Page 32 ---
Power 
and Politics 
THE PURPOSES OF AMERICAN POWER 
An Essay on National Security 
Robert W. Tucker, The Johns Hopkins University 
We have reached a maJOr turning point in Amer1can foreign policy; a period of 
withdrawal and of pass1vity has come to an end. Tucker portrays the visible 
decline of Amencan power and position as havmg led to a greater dissausfacuon 
over policy than we have experienced in a decade. Notes. b1bhography . 
CONTENTS: 1. A Cnucal juncture. 2. Amenca 10 Decl10e: The 1970s. 3. The 
Significance of the Present Debate. 4. The Arms Balance and the Pers1an Gulf. 
5. The Two Conta10ments: An Argument Retraced. 
ZOO pp. September 1981 
$12.00 (Cloth) ISBN 0-03-059974-1 
$5.95 (Student Edmon) ISBN 0-03-059976-8 
A LEHRMAN INSTITUTE BOOK 
CRITICAL ACCLAIM FOR ROBERT W. TUCKER'S 
PREVIOUS BOOKS 
The Radical Left and American Foreign Policy 
"Tucker, as ruugh-m10ded a rauonahst as th~~ come. we1gh:. th~ convenmm.tl 
and radical VI~P\Hnts agamst each other 10 bnl11ant and rel~ntle:.sly ol--JeCtl\'e 
style ... An extremely lmP\lrtant book:· 
The New lsol.ationism 
"A cogent challenge. rad1cal yet sol--er. ru the recent and current orthodox\· of 
Amencan fore1gn P\>hcv~ 
Swnk;. Hojfrrwnn 
The Inequality of Nations 
"Professor Tucker's luc1d, forceful. unorthodox and lffiP\>rtant argument should 
continue the debates engendered by h1s earher essa\·s un th1~ subJeCt. li> try to 
mduce greater equahry mro mtemauQnal relauoru. the authur 1ns1sts, wtll be 
quixotiC and counterproductive:' 
PllA£GE.a PUBUSHUS 
521 Fifth Avenue 
New York. New York 10175


Every part of a Sero shirt shows why we're known as the last of the 
great shirtmakers. Take for instance our Purist* button-down collar 
shown above. It's famous for its full bell-shaped roll. We take many 
extra steps, all done by hand, to create that collar. No one else makes a 
collar with such care and attention. But, then again, no one else makes 
a shirt like Sero does. 
The last of the great shirtmakers.

