Publication date: October 15, 1982
Volume: 15
Issue number: 2


**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Ed Bennett
- Editor-in-Chief: Andy Court
- Designer: Matthew Bartholomew
- Business Manager: Barbara Burrell
- Production Manager: Hilary Callahan
- Photography Editor: Jeff Strong
- Associate Editors: Geoff Hayward, Paul H ofheinz, Jim Lowe, W. Hampton Sides, Lelia Wardwell
- Associate Production Manager: Alex Savich
- Staff: Jane Kamensky, Morris Panner, Christiana Williams


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Letters
- Comment - Student government critique and reform
- NewsJournal - God and Frum at Yale
- Major stories - What Ez Po told Possum - Morris Panner
- An interview with D. Allan Bromley - Barbara Burrell
- Messing with the system - Lindsay Rodes
- Profile - The grande dame of Hillhouse - Bruce Owen
- Architecture - The ills of A&A - Tina Kelley
- Theater - The dramats unite - Laura Pappano
- Books - Mothers and sisters - Sylvia Wilson


**Title: [Letters]**
**Author: [Various]**
**Page number(s): [4]**
...


**Title: Comment**
**Author: [Not specified]**
**Page number(s): [5]**
Student government critique and reform 
A proposal for YCC and JCSC to join forces.


**Title: NewsJournal**
**Page number(s): [7]**
God and Frum at Yale 
Segregation by wealth? 
Over the wires


**Title: Major stories**
**Author: Morris Panner**
**Page number(s): [10]**
Cover: What Ez Po told Possum 
A look at the largely unpublished letters and original manuscripts of Ezra Pound, including his epistles to Possum (T.S. Eliot) and Jayzus James Joyce).


**Title: An interview with D. Allan Bromley**
**Author: Barbara Burrell**
**Page number(s): [16]**
A national nuclear expert discusses misconceptions about the dangers of atomic power.


**Title: Messing with the system**
**Author: Lindsay Rodes**
**Page number(s): [22]**
A computer criminal flexes his fingers, and undergrads are almost logged off


**Title: Profile**
**Author: Bruce Owen**
**Page number(s): [26]**
The grande dame of Hillhouse 
For 75 years, Rachel Trowbridge lived in the eerie and palatial Greek Revival home at 46 Hillhouse. 
She died six weeks ago and bequeathed her mansion to Yale.


**Title: Architecture**
**Author: Tina Kelley**
**Page number(s): [31]**
The ills of A&A 
The "tragic drama" of a troubled edifice.


**Title: Theater**
**Author: Laura Pappano**
**Page number(s): [35]**
The dramats unite 
A revitalized council of dramats attempts to increase cooperation between theater groups, and petitions the university for more space.


**Title: Books**
**Author: Sylvia Wilson**
**Page number(s): [38]**
Mothers and sisters 
Cmu bulle, huge mass, thesaurus; 
&batat~, the doclc tic/cs and ftuks out, 
~ 
bnde awaiting the god's toueh; &batan, 
City of pattnned strnts; again the vision: 
Down in the viae strtuiM, wga'd the crowd, 
and .from paraj>rl looked dQwn. 
To North was Egypt. 
the blue deep Nile 
cutting low barrm land 
Old men and camels 
' 
. 
, 
worlcing the water-wheels; 
larnbltchus light, and 
. the souls ascmding, 
Spar/cs lilce a partridge covey, 
. Lilce the oocco; brand struelc in the game. 
~ omniforrms : Air, fire, the pale soft light. 
I manage, and thrn sorts of blue; 
but on the barb of time. 
Afro-American graduate student Gloria Naylor's 
new novel about sisterhood in the black ghetto.

**Title: Letters**
**Author: Various**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Polinsky's adam's apple 
To the Editor: 
We at the Yale Precision Marching 
Band, being a rather self-absorbed lot, 
very much enjoyed reading about 
ourselves in 
your recent issue. 
However, there are a number of points 
which we would like to clear up. 
1) As you are no doubt now aware, 
Mr. Richard Thurston is no longer 
faculty advisor for the band. Over the 
summer, he returned to his native 
Oklahoma soil. Our new resident deity 
and overlord is Mr. Tom Duffy, whom 
we are very pleased and proud to have 
with us. 
2) We wish to God that the media 
would get off the Dropping-The-Pants-
On-The-Field thing. We do not con-
sider it an example of the offensiveness 
we are trying to avoid. All band 
members were wearing diapers 
underneath, revealing much less than 
the cheerleaders one sees prancing 
about on the television during profes-
sional games. Frankly, we still think 
the idea was a tremendous giggle. The_ 
only reason we won't do it again is that 
"it's been done." 
3) Between the time of your inter-
view with David Polinsky and the 
publication of the article, his Adam's 
apple, which your writer reported was 
the size of a fist, seems to have fallen 
off. We have examined Mr. Polinsky's 
throat and found it to be absolutely 
smooth (if it's shaved). Obviously he's 
lost his Adam's apple. Have you seen it 
lying about anywhere? 
Your~ inquiringly, 
Peter Schmitz 
Announcer for the YPMB


Russo out of touch 
John Russo's address to the class of '82 
("Perils of the Middle Path," TNJ, 
September 10, 1982) says more about 
the speaker than about anything else. 
Russo says: "We cannot allow our large 
bureaucratic organizations, both 
public and private, to render us per-
sonally irrelevant without hope." 
Russo's approach is out of touch. He 
is . forced into fabricating large cor-
porate dragons to slay, simply to have 
something to slay. 
He imagines 
economic 
demons 
that limit our 
freedom without us knowing it. It is 
always easier to attack something no 
one can see, something no one knows 
about; no one can argue with you. 
The truth of the matter is students 
have not lost their idealism to some 
capitalistic boogeyman. 
They 
have 
discovered that people like John Russo 
have no constructive solutions to offer, 
only romantic notions of"changing the 
system." People have discovered that 
idealism must be tempered by some 
sense of the real and conflicting 
demands made on society. Or, to use 
Russo's langugage, if you can't drink 
pure artesian spring water, then you 
hc{ve to make do with Coke. 
I suspect Russo is insincere. He 
doesn't really want to change anything. 
Without some oppressive, yet con-
veniently anonymous corporation to 
attack, Russo would have nothing to 
shake his sword at. Indeed, he himself 
would be exposed as "personally irrele-
vant." 
Thomas McQuillen 
Ezra Stiles, 1984



**Title: Comment**
**Author: Morris Panner**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Student government: critique and refonn 
Morris Pan ner 
Five times last month, I sat outside the 
dining hall asking the same questions 
over and over: "Have you voted for 
Yale College Council (YCC) yet? 
Have you bought a SAC card yet?" 
Although I didn't like being constantly 
ignored, I fully expected to be. We are 
so accustomed, it seems, to ignoring 
the student groups that shape our lives 
that we have stopped asking ourselves 
why we don't care. Few of us find it 
unusual that five colleges could not 
complete their YCC elections on the 
designated weekend in September. 
There were so many editorials critical 
of the YCC last sring in the Yale Daily 
News that we didn't bother to read 
them. And, if we have been less critical 
of the Joint Council of Social 
Chairpersons UCSC), it may be 
because few of us realize that JCSC 
takes $3.25 of our $30 SAC fee, and 
even fewer of us take part in deciding 
how the JCSC spends this money, 
which amounts to almost $10,000. 
It is useless to tell people to get in-
volved in student government if that 
government has no power and no 
money, 
while social committee 
chairpersons spend $10,000 with no 
one realizing it. I don't have a simple 
solution. I propose a new beginning 
for student government. First, com-
bine the JCSC and the YCC into one 
centralized and representative body. 
Then, do what Stiles and Berkley 
already do: allow the residential college 
councils to distribute the college's share 
of the money obtained from SAC card 
sales. 
The YCC and the JCSC have failed 
in the past because they operate under 
the assumption that issues of social life 
and student government are unrelated. 
The YCC talks to the administration, 
and the JCSC organizes the parties. 
The YCC has helped but not gov-
erned. Its efforts for Communiversity 
D ay, freshman orientation and a stu-
dent handbook have been successful, 
but this is just part of what it should 
do. The YCC discussed both the 
foreign language requirement and the 
addition of pluses and minuses to the 
grading system, but did nothing. The 
YCC will have no influence until it has 
a solid base of student support, which 
means a truly representative system. 
The YCC's impotence at first doesn't 
seem that serious. None of us is 
bothered that much by the recent 
changes. If we are going to take time 
off from school work, we would rather 
devote it to what we call "real" issues. 
But what if the changes in University 
policy- the grade change, the reduc-
tion m college seminars, the policy of 
shutting down happy hours and the 
most recent proposal to move finals'til 
after Christmas vacation- are part of a 
larger pattern? What if alJ the changes 
we see around us are not really pro-
gress, as the University claims, but 
simply a return to what we had before? 
Once we stop being involved in the 
decision-making 
process 
merely 
because everything seems so good, we 
are in danger of being unable to 
perceive the larger trends in policy. 
When we say that nothing is really im-
portant here, we only trivialize our 
lives here. 


In decisions of social life, too, we 
have too often let others decide for us. 
Although the JCSC sets the social 
calendar, 
it has 
not 
successfully 
represented student opinion to the 
masters and the administration. Last 
year when the Council of Masters 
changed the .SAC card purchasing 
rules, the JCSC made a poor attempt 
to find out what the students thought. 
As a result of the change, SACs could 
lose up to 30 percent of their budget to 
reduced SAC card sales. Why can the 
masters make such a significant change 
in our social lives without consulting 
us? 
But the problem of YCC and JCSC 
is more than just a lack of coordina-
tion. Neither group is representative. 
Each college elects only rwo YCC 
representatives and, despite their best 
efforts, they are rarely able to gain the 
students' confidence. My own exper-
ience as a representative has confirmed 
this, and many of the other represen-
tatives have expressed similar doubts 
to me. As one put it, "If I were to say 
that I speak for the students in my col-
lege, they wou!d laugh in my face." 
TheJCSC's problem is more subtle. 
Potentially, the college SACs could 
discuss JCSC issues at open SAC 
meetings, but somehow this. rarely 
happens. None of us ever sees the 
JCSC's budget, and even if we do have 
a suggestion, all we can do as ask our 
SAC chairpersons to present it and 
hope for the best. Too often SAC


chairpersons make all the decisions 
about the JCSC budget with little stu-
dent consultation. The JCSC needs to 
formalize the commumication betweeq 
itself and the students, because now it 
rarely happens. As a 
result, few 
students feel that they have any say in 
how the JCSC spends its money. 
The system I propose could correct 
these problems of apathy and represen-
tation, making student government a 
productive force on campus. Each col-
lege would elect 12 representatives to 
its own Residential College Council. It 
would be responsible for distributing 
the college's SAC funds to activities in 
the college, whether social committees 
dramats, publications or gamerooms 
The Residential College Council 
would, in turn, elect a chairperson and 
a vice-chairperson who would repre-
sent the college on the Student Senate. 
The Student Senate and the Residen-
tial College Councils would meet 
regularly. 
This new government would be not 
merely a reshuffiing of the present 
system, but a truly new government. 
Student government would be no 
longer a joke, but a responsibility. 
Since the new system would be 
representative and directly involve 
more people, the very process of 
establishing the councils would en-
courage commitment. Students would 
no longer be isolated from social and 
academic policy decisions, and the 
frustrations that so many of us have 
felt would end. The new government 
would have a substantial budget, in-
corporating both the JCSC and the 
YCC budgets, which together would 
amount to almost $12,000. We could 
try new ideas because we would have 
the money to pay for them. 
For colleges that don't have a college 
council system like those of Stiles or 
Berkeley, where the council distributes 
all SAC funds, the new system would 
require substantial changes. Despite 
these changes, however, each college 
would retain full control over its own 
SAC funds. 
The Student Senate, growing out of 
the Residential College Councils, 
would be responsible for the present 
roles of both the YCC and the JCSC. 
Mter discussing issues and social 
events in the Student Senate, the chair-
persons could then bring back the ideas 
to their colleges for discussion and ac-
tion. Less frequently, all 12 college 
councils would meet together to give 
final approval for any unified student 
action. 
Because the authority of student 
government is at present virtually non-
existent, I find that it is difficult to 
identify who should present the plan to 
the colleges. But it seems logical that 
the YCC representatives and the SAC 
chairpersons would introduce the plan 
and begin discussion. After allowing 
ample time for this discussion, the 
representatives and the chairpersons 
would conduct a referendum in each 
college, and if two-thirds of the colleges 
accept the plan, then it would be the 
new form of student government. 
In addition to discussing the change 
in government, students could also 
consider the possibility of making SAC 
fees mandatory, since the new system 
would give students more say in how 
the funds are spent. 
This new system would finally make 
student government worthwhile. We 
would have control over how student 
government spends 1ts money, and 
the Student Senate could present a 
position that truly represented the 
students. Once we had a student gov-
ernment that did something, the ad-
ministration would take it seriously, 
not merely as a service organization, 
but as a true student government. We 
must stop being complacent and exam-
ine our lives here critically, realizing 
that changes in policy are not random 
events but part of a larger educational 
philosophy. We will always be busy, 
but we must realize that building and 
improving a community is worth our 
time. Just because the issues facing us 
are not a matter of life and death that 
doesn't mean we should stop caring 
about how they are made. 
• 
Morris Fanner, a junior in Ezra Stiles Col-
lege, is a Y C. C. representaJive and tr«lStt.nr 
of the Stiles College Council. 
The opinions expressed in this section are those 
of the individual writers. Tlu New J~ 
welcomes letters to the editor, and comment on 
Yale and New Haven issues. Write to 3432 Yale 
Station, New Haven, CT 06520. All letters for 
publication must include address and signature. 


**God and Frum at Yale**
**Author: Paul Hojhtinz**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NewsJournal 
God and Frum at Yale 
David Frum ('82) has hit upon a more 
congenial forum for 
his arch-
conservative views than the editorial 
page of the Yale Daily News. In the Oc-
tober 1 issue of the National Review, 
Frum wrote an article about his days at 
Yale called "'A Memo to the Freshman 
Class." 

Last year, Frum became one of the 
most controversial figures on cjlmpus. 
H is weekly column in the YDN, called 
"Juvenalia" (which means youthful 
works in Latin), provoked dozens of 
letters of protest and angry responses 
for 
the conservative opinions it 
presented. Frum relished the con-
troversy. "I like causing fuss," he told 
The Ntw Journal last spring ("The Fuss 
Over Frum" TN], April 19, 1982). 

"A Memo to the Freshman Class," is 
vintage Frum. It resembles his earlier 
column in the YDN by seeming to 
deliberately provoke liberals. The arti-
cle begins by describing the situation 
that led the editors of the Daily News to 
ask him to write a weekly column. "'It 
was, I think, the sight of me reeling 
through the streets of New Haven ear-
ly 
in 
the 
morning of President 
Reagan's election, brandishing 
empty bottles of champagne 
bellowing 'Happy Days are 
again!'" 

Frum goes on to assess the political 
mood at Yale. He keeps to his earlier 
theme that Yale is basically a liberal 
campus where people's opinions 
change with the political climate. "As a 
result, liberal Yale looked very radical 
in 1970, and liberal Yale looks rather 
conservative in 1982," he writes. 

Frum says he found being a conser-
vative at Yale was not very difficult. 
"'In my first year, conservatism was still 
a zany cult; by my last, it was a lively 
minority." Frum also notes that "civili-
ty, by and large, once again flourishes 
like ivy at Yale, and the intimidation of 
dissidents that was one of the dis-
tasteful features of the bad decade 1965 
to 1975, usually known as 'the Sixties,' 
takes more subtle-and therefore more 
bearable- forms." 

Some people have noted that Frum 
seems to be following in the footsteps of 
fellow conservative William F. Buckley 
Jr., who also began his career at the 
YDN. In 1951, Buckley wrote a book 
entitled God and Man at Yalt in which 
he criticized Yale for not inculcating its 
students with moral values. 

Like 
Frum, Buckley had just graduated 
from Yale (where he was an outspoken 
conservative) when the work appeared. 
Buckley is now the editor of the Na-
tional Rtvitw, which solicited Frum to 
write "A Memo to the Freshman 
Class " upon his graduation. 

At present, Frum is living in his 
native Toronto trying to support 
himself as a writer. He plans to do 
several book reviews for the National 
Review this fall. Frum also intends to 
write a book in the near future on 
Canadian politics, although he won't 
reveal any specific details about its 
contents. 
• 


**Financial aid: The diversity Issue**
**Author: Mike Otsuka**
**Page number(s): 8**

NewsJou 
Financial aid: 
The diversity Issue 
Will the Reagan administration's per-
sistent cutbacks in educational aid af-
fect the diversity of Yale and other Ivy 
League schools? Many people, in-
cluding Yale President A. Bartlett 
Giamatti, fear the reductions will 
threaten to halt or reverse the trend in 
the last two decades toward greater 
enrollment of minority and public 
school students in private universities. 

These fears come at a time when 
private schools, the Ivies in particular, 
have been receiving a great deal of bad 
press. The New York Times, for exam-
ple, recently decried what it termed "a 
new college segregation," citing "a 
disturbing decline in the number of 
low- and moderate-income students at 
private colleges." The Times wrote: 
"The nation is unwittingly moving 
toward a caste system, with private in-
stitutions serving the wealthy and only 
a token number of the poor." 

A recent cover of The New Republic 
("Schools for Snobbery: 
You Are 
Where You 
Went," 
October 4) 
featured a less-than-reverent cartoon 
depicting a Yale family portrait, with 
grandad, dad, and grandson proudly 
posed in Old Blue attire with Yale but-
tons in a sitting room covered with 
Yale wallp~r and a Lux tt Veritas 
plaque. The article, written· by Paul 
FusselJ, began: "In the absence of a 
system of hereditary 
ranks and 
titles ... Americans have had to de-
pend for their mechanism of snobbery 
far more than other peoples on their 
college and university 
hierarchy~ 
Accusing schools like Yale and Har-
vard of elitism, the article continued: 
.. 'The educational system has been ef-
fectively appropriated by the upper 
strata and transformed into an instru-
ment which tends to reproduce the 
class struture and transmit inequality' 
. . . The effect of the whole system is to 
stabilize class rigidity under the cover 
of opening up genuine higher learning 
to everyone." 

Indeed, a number of private schools, 
including Dartmouth and Brown, have 
had to abandon either the policy of 
"need-blind" admissions or of 
guaranteed aid to those who demon-
strate need. 

But 
Yale, 
Harvard, 
Princeton and other schools with 
substantial alumni resources and hefty 
endowments have so far been able to
8 
The New Journal/October 15, 1982 
OCJO •t• • 
1 ,,, ... 1 tt 
maintain a policy of admittingstudents 
regardless of financial circumstances . 

Surprisingly, despite a near-record 
II ,023 applicants to Yale this fall, the 
number of students applying for fman-
cial aid declined for the first time in 
years. After three years of steep in-
creases, the percentage of freshmen on 
financial aid leveled ofT at 42 percent 
for the current freshman class, after 
being 43 percent for last year's class. 

Although 
fewer 
freshmen 
than 
sophomores are on fmancial aid this 
year, Worth David, dean of under-
graduate admissions, does not believe 
Yale is beginning to feel the effects of 
any "new colJege segregation" of rich 
and poor. 

In terms of minority and 
publicschool students enrolJed, David 
argues, the class of 1986 is more 
diverse than most classes over the past 
ten years. He includes the senior class, 
but not the sophomore class, in that 
judgment. 

Yale spends a lot of money in its e,. 
fort to attract what Giamatti one 
called "a splendidly inrcresting student 
body which reflects the -tuality and 
diversity of American society." In 
1981-82 aid for undergraduates and 
graduate students amounted to a stag-
gering ten percent of the University's 
total expenditures from endowments 
and general appropriations. Two years 
ago Yale spent $5.2 milJion to meet the 
needs of its undergraduate'!; last year it 
spent almost $7 million. 
~is year the 
cost of diversity and equ< 
1pponunity 
for undergraduates is pr 
·ted at $8.8 
million. 


Despite 
these steep increases, 
Giamatti and other administrators say 
the University is determined to con-
tinue its policy of admitting students 
regardless of need. Administrators, 
however, do not rule out the possibility 
of one day abandoning Yale's policy of 
meeting the full needs of admitted 
students. 

"Under such a policy (change)," said 
David, "if we admitted 600 students 
who qualified for aid but only had 
enough money to finance 500 of them, 
we might send letters of acceptance to 
all 600 but inform 100 of them that we 
couldn't meet their financial needs." 

Regardless of what happens to 
future admissions policies, adminis-
trators assure students currently 
enrolled that their needs will be met for 
the duration of their undergraduate 
careers. So with the exception of those 
who feel that Yale's student body has 
never been "splendidly interesting," 
students can expect Yale's diversity to 
remain intact for at least the next 
eleven months. 


**Over the wires**
**Author: S. Jiayi Won**
**Page number(s): 9**

Over the wires 
Old phone systems never die, it seems, 
they just get rewired. At least that's 
what's happening, slowly but surely, to 
Yale's Centrex phone service, which 
U niversity 
leases from 
Southern New England Telephone 
Com pany (SNET). Working from a 
circuitry blueprint so intricate it would 
make an engineer's heart soar, the Yale 
Communications Department is in the 
midst of a five-year rewiring project 
that will do away with Centrex and 
allow Yale to manage its own phone 
system by as early as the first quarter 
of 1985. 

It's no small project. All told, the 
engineers will have to rewire about 
14,000 phone lines in an estimated 234 
Yale buildings. When it's over and 
done with, your monthly phone bill 
will come from Mother Yale, instead of 
Ma Bell, and phone charges will 
graciously appear on the Bursar's Bill. 

T he switch is all part of Yale's effort 
to keep up with the changing times and 
the burgeoning private telephone in-
dustry only recently made possible by 
the federal deregulation of AT&T. A 
result of the anti-trust settlement 
earlier this year is that businesses and 
ins~itutions can now legally purchase 
the1r own phone systems. According to 
Yale Communications, the big advan-
tage of owning a private system is that 
Yale will be able to circumvent SNET 
rate hikes, phone rental costs and in-
stallation fees, which have been steadi-
ly on the rise. "The idea behind the 
project," said Mike Grunder, manager 
of Yale Communications, "is to offer 
the most efficient service as cost-
effectively as possible." And for Yale, 
cost effectiveness is more a necessity 
than a virtue: The University spends 
about $5 million a year on calls, and 
that figure does not even include stu-
dent calls which Yale Communica-
tions cons~rvatively estimates amount 
to $2 million yearly. 

Yale Communications 
has just 
recently completed the first phase of 
the project: the 6,000-line, 34-building 
M edical School system . Rather than 
using Centrex, the Medical School and 
Yale-New H aven Hospital now have a 
brand new Private Business Exchange 
(PBX), a system bought from Nor-
thern Telecom, 
a 
Canadian-based 
company. The PBX handles all local 
and intracampus calls, but long 
distance 
is still 
switched 
through 
SNET. The rates the Med School now 
pays are comparable to SNET rates. 
But in about five years the pilot Med 
School project will have paid for itself, 
Grunder speculates, and within ten 
years the Med School will actually be 
saving money on the system. 

**Title: What Ez Po told Possum**
**Author: Katherine Scobey**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Ezra Pound, photo,t:rafJhed in 1903. 
Waal naow, Po•sum my Wunlcu 
Dew yew XX.Xpekk me to be pracTical 
AWL th time' 
Aint it enufT that I write a nice prac:tic:al 
XI Cantos to inskrukk the reade in bist/ and 
ec:on/ even if I do leave out a greek hacltl· 
cent, which most of the readen wdllearn to 
copulate WITHOUT, almo.t u 
.oon/ 
unless impeded 
And what did Possum expect? 
T.S Eliot knew to expect the flam-
boyant, the extravagant, the obsessive, 
the legendary, if not the practical, 
from Ezra Pound. As did William 
Butler Yeats. As did Jamesjoyce. As 
did e.e. cummings. As did the hun-
drecb of writers, readers and pub-
lishers who corresponded with 
Pound. Was it practical to write more 
than 50,000 pages of correspondence? 
Maybe, maybe not. But Ezra Pound 
was a prophet with many messages and 
missions; doing was essential, and for 
Pound, doing was writing. 

Nearly everything Pound wrote is 
now in a subterranean room in the 
Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript 
Library. There 50 ftle drawers hold 
roughly 50,400 pages of corres· 
pondence, more than 60,000 sheets of 
manuscript, and another 100,000 
pages of copies and documents. The 
archive contains all of Pound's pub-
lished·works; it also holcb a portion of 
his private library. Pound's own il-
lustrations for the Cantos hang on the 
wall. Scrapbooks compiled by Pound's


father fill more drawers. Several boxes 
hold the transcripts from Pound's 
broadcasts over Rome Radio during 
World War II; in the cabinet ·below 
them are the FBI ftles on Pound's in-
dictment for treason. 

The Library began negotiating to 
acquire Pound's papers in the early 
'60s. 
In 
1966 Pound's daughter 
deposited 15 trunks and wooden pack-
ing cases filled with her father's papers 
at the Beinecke, but curators could not 
open them because they were not 
Library property. 
For six 
years 
negotiations lagged, and the trunks 
remained shut. After Pound died in 
1972, the trustees of his estate were 
compelled to settle negotiations, and in 
1973 the Library purchased the ar-
chive with funds from an anonymous 
donation. On September 26 of that 
year it opened as the Center for the 
Study of Ezra Pound and his Contem-
poraries. Since then, the archive has 
been used by thousands of scholars 
from all over the world; it constitutes 
the source of a wealth of new criticism 
of Pound's poetry. 

The archive includes drawer after 
drawer of Pound's letters, each a sty-
lized, 
creative oeuvre. 
They are 
scrawled in his bold hand, or typed, 
riddled with phonetic spellings and 
punctuated haphazardly with diagonal 
slash-marks. Pound is familiar and 
playful in the letters. He salutes James 
Joyce as j/j/j Jayzus me daRRRiint," 
and he and T. S. Eliot address each 
other regularly as Rabbit and Possum. 
With a 
curious style that seems 
apropriate to this unorthodox poet, the 
letters express unabashed opinion in 
whacky, abstract metaphor. When he 
wants to rail to e.e. cummings about 
economic injustice in England, he 
writes: 
Deeuh eatlin et uJ<ur 
Canc:bub onnentan ITZ rne sportin sper-
rit I like playin tennis, but it wd. givv rne no 
~ 
ov ple.aure to shot a pore subaqueous 
bapperpoTAmul with all odc:b on the 
JIOWZder an ahot. 
Wbca you SOl .orne real big buuard like ~ 
bloody Bank of Eng. it is fun trailin ~varmints 
. aayhow iua gn-eat life. and I been 
bavin fu.n ~r a fortnight. 
benedictions. 
yrz EZ 

In the middle of a letter to Eliot, 
Pound wrote this spontaneous verse: 

SONG FER TH MUSES GARDEN 
Ez Po und Possum 
Have picked all the blossum, 
Let all the othen 
Run back to their mothen 
Fer a 
boye's 
bh' frien 
iz hiz 
zOedipus, 
A boy's best friend is his Oedipus. 

Pound must have taken great 
pleasure in entertaining those to whom 
he wrote, but at the same time, he 
sought to instruct them in the writing 
and reading of literature. 
H e 
is 
generally acknowledged to be the in-
itiator of modem poetry; Ernest Hem-
ingway wrote, "Any poet born in this 
century who can honestly say that he 
has not been influenced by or learned 
"I leave out woldz that dont 
comport with wot l'ma drlvln 
at." 
greatly from the work of Ezra Pound 
deserves to be pitied rather than re-
buked." Pound believed 
literature 
should function as inspiration to 
originality and creativity in men's 
lives, but he perceived that a vagueness 
and imprecision in current writing was 
thwarting that purpose. The conse-
quence, he wrote, was that "The whole 
machinery of social and of individual 
thought and order goes to pot." 

Through his correspondence Pound 
schooled writers and readers in clear, 
precise, viJrorous writing. In a letter to 
"Rev. Mo/possum" [aka Eliot], Pound 
explained, "I leave out woidz that dont 
comport with wot rma drivin at ... 

Pound forged a new poetic mode to 
achieve exactitude in verse. In 1912 
Pound, writing in Paris, with H .D . 
and Richard Aldington, articulated the 
As a chi(d, Pound wrote to Santa Claus in "North Cloud/and, " requesting, 
among other things, «a whip and money for getting presents for other people. " 
three principles of his literature: direct 
treatment of subject, use only of essen-
tial words and new rhythm. In a letter 
to Iris Barry, one of the many young 
poets he had under his tutelage, Pound 
advised, 

In some of the •regular" stuff, you fall too 
flady into the •whakty whakty whakty whak-
ty whak' of the old pentameter. Pentameter 
O.K. if it is interesting, but al lot of linea 
with no variety won't do. 

The manuscripts in the archive show 
the development of Pound's new style 
of poetry by demonstrating the 
creative process. One can follow the 
working of an idea from note-form to 
its ultimate expression in published 
verse. To see what Pound r~jected, to 
follow the refining of images and lines, 
is to follow Pound, step by step, to his 
new poetic mode. 

Peter D'Epiro, in a doctoral disserta-
tion written at Yale, used the Pound 
archive to demonstrate how Pound 
created theM ala testa Cantos D'Epiro 
traces ideas trom their genesis in the 
poetry notebooks, through their ap-
pearance in intermediary drafts, final-
ly to their articulation in the published 
poem. Taking notes from a history 
book, Pound wrote in his notebook for 
Canto 8 these facts: 

1#2. hail 
broken towers 
& wal.ls 
3 Aug. 
sun (eclipsed 
oscuro). 

After that appear some unrelated notes 
on the page, but lower, as if Pound 
were suddenly inspired by the informa-
tion he had scribbled, appear the lines: 

one year the river rose 
• 
• they fought in the snows 
one year the hail 
beat down the towers 
and trees. 

The idea is ultimately expressed at the 
opening of Canto 9: 

One year Ooods rose, 
One year they fought in the anowa 
One year hail fell, breaking the 
trees and walla. 

Pouncfs writing was by no means 
wholly literary. From the mid '20s on 
he was increasingly active in economic


**Ezra Pound's Economic and Literary Theories**
**Author: Katherine Scobey**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
and political thought. As he had in 
literature, Pound assumed a mission in 
economics. He wrote books- among 
them, An ABC of &onomics andjiflmon 
and/or Musso/ini- and numerous ar· 
tides and treatises. He wrote to promi-
nent government officials and finan-
ciers, and he raved to his friends. To 
Eliot he wrote: 
Dear Possum 
SHIT for the church of England and the 
archbastid of Canterbugger. 
No use my 
telling him he is 
a 
pimp ... England as accuser; plantif and 
JUDGE .. . 
League of Nations. never anything but 
league of bank pimps. Nothing but WAR 
makes debt fast enough to satisfy the city 
You and I can get interest on what we m-
vest. But banks can lend ten times their 
capital . 
America is NEUTRAL. Nobody but us 
privik citizens can SAY anything. 
Fer xt'z sakes lets SAY it ... 

During World War II he conducted 
a program over Rome Radio, broad-
cast in English, in which he discussed 
his economic and literary theory. 
Pound's economic thought centered on 
the seeming cross-purposes of men 
dealing in goods and men dealing in 
gold and silver money. In a broadcast 
over Rome Radio, he stated his case: 
"The New Deal policy, whether in-
tended or not, has been to the advan-
tage of men who had and have gold to 
sell, who have silver to sell, not to the 
advantage of mankind ... The 
Sassons own silver; the Rothschilds are 
gold brokers profiting by every deal 
that the Bank of London, the enemy of 
God and man, makes in gold, to buy 
or sell . . . There is not the least 
reason for the producers of grain and 
cotton to pay tribut~ to the producers 
or dealers in metals." 
Pound's own illustration for his Canto XXV


**An interview with D. Allan Bromley**
**Author: Barbara Burrell**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
An 
interview 
with 
• D. Allan Bromley is the Director of the 
i Wright Nuclear Structure Laboratory where 
I 
he and several colleagues examine atomic par-
ticles on Yale~ "Emperor, particle accelerator. 
! The machine, which is the largest of its type 
t in the world, is located inconspicuously 
7> beneath the grassy knoll on Science Hill. 

Professor Bromley has much experience 
and recognition outside of Yale. He serves as 
a director of United Illuminating, which 
provides electricity for New Haven from a 
variety of sources including the Connecticut 
Yankee nuclear power plant. He was a 
Senior Research Officer at the Chalk River 
Laboratory in Canada, where he pioneered 
early research on particle accelerators. In ad-
dition to basic nuclear research the Chalk 
River Laboratory tests designs for nuclear 
power facilities. In 1960, Bromley came to 
Yale as an Associate Professor and was 
tenured within a year~ time. 

Since then, Bromley has taken an active 
public role as one of the nation's best known 
scientific spokesmen. In January 1982, he 
was elected Chairman of the Board of the 
American Association for the Advancement of 
Science. He also serves as Chairman of the 
White House &ience Council, which advises 
the President on science policy. 

Bromley~ reputation extends around the 
world. He has received 6 honorary degrees 
from such Universities as Frankfurt in Ger-
many and Witwatersrand in South Africa. 
He also serves on the joint Committee on 
Cooperation between the U. S. Department of 
Energy and the U.S.S.R. State Committee 
on Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energ)l. 

Back home, Bromley has caused some con-
troversy with his outspoken stands on impor-
tant issues. He has outraged conservatives by 
publicly attacking Reagan's science policy, 
and liberals by forcefully advocating the use of 
nuclear power. 

Professor Bromley has also integrated his 
role as scientist and science advocate at Yale 
by 
teaching 
undergraduate courses like 
Science and Public Policy. The course 
emphasizes the social and political aspects of 
science and science policy. He is the author of 
over 300 articles and the editor of 13 books. 

The New Journal: You've been an ad-
vocate of nuclear energy and have 
been involved with the Connecticut 
Yankee Power Plant. How do you view 
the recent resurgence of opposition to 
nuclear power? 

Allan Bromley: I think it's very unfor-
tunate. The resurgence, if you look at 
it carefully at the moment, is not 
against nuclear power; it really is 
against nuclear war, and no sane per-
son can be otherwise but against 
nuclear war. The forces that are at-
tempting to deprive the U.S. of the 
nuclear option in its energy package 
have been singularly adroit in tying in 
the public mind nuclear energy to 
nuclear war. The two are totally, in my 
view, unconnected. It's much the same 
way as saying that a forest fire is ob-
viously a dreadful thing, but that 
doesn't mean that you shouldn't have 
fires in your fireplaces. 

TNJ: So you think the opponents of 
nuclear power are misled or misin-
formed in some way? 

AB: The vast majority of people who 
are currently very active in this area, I 
think, are very well-meaning, well-
intended people who unfortunately are 
acting on incomplete information. 

TNJ: Do you think the opponents of 
nuclear power or the public in general 
should be able to decide where a 
nuclear plant should be placed or 
whether it should operate? 

AB: Most of our citizens have, over 
the years, come to believe that energy 
is some kind of fundamental right of 
the citizen, and there's nothing wrong 
with that except that they also believe 
that it somehow is produced by the 
tooth fairy and that the tooth fairy 
always operates in someone 
else's 
backyard. 

TNJ: W auld you have a nuclear power 
plant in your backyard? 

AB: It isn't big enough, but I would be 
delighted to have one because a 
nuclear power plant, as far as I'm con-
cerned, is one of the most benign 
neighbors that I can conceive of. 

TNJ: More benign, say, than an oil 
refinery or . . . 

AB: Much more so ...


TNJ: . . . or a coal-burning . . . 

AB: Much more so, because the en-
vironmental effiuent from such a large 
reactor is very much less than .for 
comparable 
facilities 
fueled 
other 
ways. 

TNJ: So when opponents of nuclear 
power come up and say they're afraid 
of a melt-down or other potential risks, 
are they misled or are they overreac-
ting to the situation? 

AB: They're overreacting. There have 
been no meltdowns except under con-
trolled conditions where someone was 
doing an experiment, trying to find out 
what would happen in a meltdown. 
For example, there as no meltdown at 
Three Mile Island. Three Mile Island 
taught us one very important thing: 
that it's much harder to get a meltdown 
than people had realized. 

TNJ: How dangerous was the situa-
tion at Three Mile Island? 

AB: There was no danger at any time 
of anything happening outside the 
plant, none whatsoever. The max-
imum exposure that anybody got at 
any time was about 35 millirem, which 
is about a third of what any citizen in 
New Haven gets just minding his own 
business living in his own home for a 
year. But Three Mile Island was made 
into a potentially dangerous situation 
from the point of view of psychological 
damage to the citizenry and the danger 
?f citizens running one another down 
m their panic to escape from that part 
of the world. It's not surprising when 
responsible people start publishing 
headlines and say we're about to lose 
Pennsylvania. 

TNJ: How do you propose stopping 
that? 

AB: The NRC [Nuclear Regulatory 
~ommission] and the utility industries 
•? this country have already taken ac-
tlon, and there is already an emergen-
cy force ready to go immediately to 
any site of major difficulty of this kind, 
and the NRC is much better organized 
to provide authoritative information. 
The important thing we learned, 
however, beyond the importance of 
adequate communications, was that 
the people who operate power reactors 
must be trained and paid just as well 
as, for an example, 747 pilots. The 
level of training for operators of the 
U.S. civilian nuclear power system has 
gone up by a quantum jump after 
Three Mile Island. It's unfortunate 
that it took Three Mile Island to do 
that. 

TNJ: I've been through Connecticut 
Yankee, and it seems like most of what 
they do is sit around and watch dials. 

AB: That's absolutely true. It is weeks 
and weeks of boredom punctuated by 
moments of utter terror when 
something lets go and bearings catch 
fire and you get a short circuit in some 
system and things really start going 
bad. What these people are trained 
and paid for is coping with the 
unusual, not the usual. 

TNJ: So how safe, in your opinion, is 

AB: 
Nothing, 
nothing done by 
humans is absolutely safe. And so the 
question you really have to ask is, "Is 
the benefit that you gain commen-
I would prefer to live near a 
nuclear power plant than 
near a dam. 
surate or better than the risk to which 
you are exposed? And in the case of 
nuclear energy, I feel that the overall 
risk is substantially less than in any 
other major energy production pro-
grams, with the possible exception of 
natural gas-which, 
unfortunately; 
most of us don't have access to. 

TNJ: Do you think it's logical to pro-
duce radioactive waste at this time 
when there seems to be no overall 
agreement about what should be done 
with it? 

AB: It's not, as most people claim, that 
we don't know what to do with nuclear 
waste. It's simply that the quantities 
are still small enough that we don't 
have to commit to any given policy, 
but we want to be sure that before we 
do, we've picked the absolute best one. 

TNJ: The nuclear power industry is 
currently pushing a bill through the 
House of Repr<!sentatives that would


**An Interview with A. Bromley**
**Author: T.N.J.**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
weapons to the world. The point is that 
there is a march of technology in 
science and you can't just stop it by 
fiat. 

T NJ: Does that worry you that . . . 
AB: That a lot of small countries have 
these devices? Yes, of course it does. 
And what worries me more is that 
there are weapons in hands of ad-
ministrations and ruling groups that 
are certainly not very stable, and I 
don't think terribly responsible. 

T NJ: How do you react when you read 
articles in the paper about things like 
the anti-nuclear rally in New York, 
where half a million people marched 
into Central park protesting the pro-
liferation of nuclear arms? 

AB: I am turned ofT by these large pro-
ductions. When I talk to people com-
ing back from these large productions 
now, a lot of them have no idea of why 
they went except that they felt that they 
missed the ones in the '60s and this is a 
golden opportunity to find out what 
kind of a social experience it was. 
I don't think it has the slightest im-
pact whatever on any policy. 
A few reasoned letters to Congressen 
and Senators are vastly more effective 
than a group of people thrashing 
around Central Park or in Washing-
ton, because any group that has Jane 
Fonda as the centerpiece is not going to 
get very much of a hearing in responsi-
ble circles. 

TNJ: You travelled to the U .S.S.R. 
and you served on the President's 
scientific advisory committee. How do 
you think our policy should be carried 
out towards the Soviets? 

AB : I'm afraid that I don't feel that the 
Soviets have changed their goals 
substantially since 1917. And that's 
something that we have to keep in 
mind. 

TNJ: Those goals being? 
~ : Those goals being world domina-
tion. 

TNJ: So you think that in any agree-
ment we enter into, we cannot trust 
what they say? 

~ : Of course not! If we can verify it, 
af we can independently check it out 
then by all means we should make 
every attempt we can of this sort. But 
you don't have to go very far back to 
recognize that the Soviets interpret 
some of these agreements very dif-
ferently than we would. 

TNJ: Do you think anything like 
SALT II or any other treaties are ad-
visable? 

AB: We should certainly work toward 
them. 

TNJ: Have we been naive so far in our 
dealings with them? 

AB: Some of us certainly have. Some 
haven't. 

TNJ: Some being? 
AB: I certainly am not going to answer 
that. 

TNJ: I'd like to ask you more personal 
questions about your own involvement 
with Yale. Could you explain just 
what an accelerator does? 

AB: An accelerator is, for all practical 
purposes, nothing more than a giant 
microscope which allows us to look 
deep inside nuclei. The smaller the 
thing that you are looking at, the big-
ger the microscope you need to achieve 
that look. 

TNJ: So the research that you do is 
basic? 

AB: All the research that we do is fully 
basic research. 

TNJ: Have you seen practical applica-
tion for the sorts of discoveries that 
you've made here? 

AB: Very much so. We have, for ex-
ample, seen substantial amounts of our 
work appearing in nuclear medicine. 
We've seen a lot of our very recent 
work appearing in geophysics, in the 
understanding of deposition of mineral 
bodies and so on. 
We have discovered why it is that 
computers, apparently for no reason at 
all, 
every so 
often just make 
mistakes- what 
are called "soft 
failures." That's because a charged par-
ticle coming in from outer space plows 
through the computer memory and 
resets it. We now know how that hap-
pens and we know how to correct it 
and we know how to avoid making it 
worse. 

TNJ: And in nuclear medicine, what 
advances have we seen there? 

AB: One of the most important things 
that nuclear medical folks have to do is 
to find the right radioisotope to give 
patients either for diagnostic purposes 
or for clinical treatment purposes. 
One of the projects we worked on 
recently is, I think, going to be very 
important in term s of telling us how we 
have to build the inner wall- that's the 
really important engineering prob-
lem - how to build the inner wall of a 
fusion reactor so that we can liberate 
the energies of the sun here on the 
earth. 

TNJ: H ow far do you think we are 
from fusion? 

AB: I think we'll show that we can do it 
in the laboratory within a year or so, 
but it would take probably 30 years at 
the min imum before we can do enough 
of the engineering to make it an effec-
tive power source. So we have some-
thing like 30 years and that's the in-
terim period where, I think, we have to 
use everything we've got-coal, oil, 
gas, nuclear- but I don't see us using 
nuclear fission after we get fusion. 

TNJ: And this laboratory here will be 
working on developing ways so that fu-
sion will .. . 

AB: Nothing as specific as that. For 
example, one of our students has been 
looking at the whole question of put-
ting together the fundamental forces of 
nature. Are all the forces of elec-
tromagnetism, the forces that give you 
radioactivity, that give you nuclear 
energy, 
really just one and the 
same force! This was Einstein's dream, 
and he failed to get it. But we're hot on 
his trail now and one of the things that 
one of our students here has just been 
looking at really nails down a key piece 
of this. It pushes us in the direction of 
saying, yes they are one and the same. 
Another of our students has just 
finished a project in which we set out to 
see if we could find any trace of the 
gi:'lnt supernova stellar explosion that 
trtggered the formulation of the solar 
system four-and-a-half billion years 
ago. We found a trace of this. It turns 
out you can find it in meteorites that 
have been cruising around in outer 
space until very recently, and then 
plow into the earth. You get them, take 
them apart and look at the various 
nuclei. You can get a measure of how 
far back this supernova was. And so we 
cover the complete spectrum- any-
thing that we consider good science is 
fair game. 

TNJ: H ow can we go about educating 
the public on crucial matters such as 
our shortage of non-renewable energy 
sources and uses of nuclear energy; 
and what is the role of the scientific 
community in this regard? 

AB: We've got to spend a hell of a lot 
more of our time than we have in the 
past talking to the public, telling peo-
ple what we're up to in science. One, 
because it after all is an accounting we 
owe to the public, because the public 
pays for all of this. Secondly, we have 
to do this to develop a new constituen-
cy for science in this country. At the 
moment, we're just beginning to face 
up to the fact that science and 
technology are just other claimants for 
the public tax dollar. And we don't 
have a large constituency as compared 
to the hot lunch constituency, even 
though I think we have a tremendous 
contribution to make to national well-
being. 

T NJ: H ow do we, who are at the mer-
cy of people with 
vastly 
more 
knowledge . .. 

AB: You're never at the mercy, don't 
put it that way. 

TNJ: Do we make informed decisions? 

AB: If a democracy is going to work, it 
means that we've got to have an educa-
tional system so that a person can at 
least be able to understand the issues, 
never mind the details. It's up to the 
members of the public to ask the ques-
tions and demand answers from the 
people who are supposed to know what 
the details are. 
That's part of the trouble in this 
whole question of radioactive waste, 
for example. The Atomic Energy 
Commission made terrible m istakes in 
the early days of the program because 
they just simply said, "Don't bother us, 
we know what we're doing, we'll take 
care of it." It's the public's fault for ac-
cepting that kind of nonsense. The 
public should have said, "Wait a 
minute, you say you know what you're 
doing, but we don't know." 
The public, as the electorate in a 
democracy, has to listen to the answers 
they get from people from all differe~t 
opinions and then m ake up _the1r 
m inds. T hat's what democracy IS all 
about. 


**Title: Messing with the system_**
**Author: Lindsay Rodes**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
They are not ordinary criminals. These 
people are cyberphrenetic. They prefer 
computer company to human, and they 
can do awesome things with the 
machine. But · every once in a while one 
of them gets a little cocky, breaks the 
computer's security system and plays 
with things he shouldn't. 

On September 13 one of them broke 
into the computer, wreaked havoc with 
the system and almost cost the com-
puter science majors their machine. 
Jeff H offman, '83, and Ben Cutler, 
'84, sat at a terminal working with the 
New York Times Agency account. 
Hoffmann logged off and 20 minutes 
later tried to log on again, but the com-
puter did not recognize his password. 
It didn't make sense. He looked at a file 
that contains the number of passwords 
on the systems and saw it change while 
he watched. Suspicious, Cutler ran a 
program called "Finger," which lists 
who is on the computer, when, and 
where. At the same time, Hoffman ran 
a simpler program, "Who," which 
shows exactly whose accounts are 
working in the system and what they 
are doing. The program listed a 
friend's name, STONE, and Hoffman 
wondered out loud what he was doing 
on the machine. 

"I'm not doing anything. I'm not 
even logged on," said Larry Stone, '83 
as he walked up to the terminal. Some-
one, somewhere, had broken into 
Stone's account. 

"It was like a TV movie," Hoffman said. "We ran to Dunham lab to see if 
anybody was messing with the system 
there. We didn't see anyone. But we 
convinced the grad student on duty 
that there was something wrong. He 
intentionally crashed the computer." 

The computer was down and they 
"kiJled" the New York Times Agency 
account for three days. Meanwhile the 
agency lost more than $400, said Hoff-
man. But he was not the only one upset 
by the prank. The next day, John 
O'Donnell, head of the Computer 
Science Facilities, threatened to strip 
computer science majors of all 
privileges. Furious, O'Donnell sent 
this missile: 

"Someone has broken into Yale-
COMIX, using the network and ac-
counts broken into on other machines. 
"If this or similar incidents recur, all 
student accounts will be moved to a 
VMS machine at the Yale Computer 
Center. 
"Unless the violator or others come 
forward with explicit details on the ac-
cess technique used in the breakins BY 
THE FND OF THIS WEEK, all 
student 'lccounts will lose all network 
privileges, and all DEC-20 course ac-
counts 
will be restricted to CS 
coursework ONLY." 

Rajpal Sandhu, '83, fired back to 
O'Donnell on the computer bulletin 
board, "It is terribly annoying to find 
that every time there is a major 
breakin (ha ha?), the totality of majors 
get screwed- immediate incrimina-
tion. Security breaches are to be ex-
pected when 
we 
have protection 
systems ... n 

It was like telling English majors 
that because somebody ripped out all 
the pages from John Milton's Paradise 
Lost, they would have access to a 
library of only Nancy Drew mystery 
stories. The undergraduate majors 
were stunned but not shocked at 
O'Donnell's threat. "We call him JOD, 
because it rhymes with GOD," quipped 
Hoffman, "He never has time for 
undergrads." Another student, Charles 
Francois, '84, said O'Donnel threatens 
the use of his tyrannical power because 
lt gets results. "It's silly grade-school 
mentality- pulling us off the COM IX 
for this one security breach." 

But, even with the threat, O'Donnell 
admits chance are slim the vandal 
can be caught. He left no trace because 
he had access to O'Donnell's superuser 
account. "The only way they could 
catch him now is by accusing him and 
having him confess," said Hoffman. 

Stanley Eisenstat, 
director of 
graduate studies, said, "We haven't 
ruled out the possibility of catching 
him. But I don't think I want to talk 
about that." 

Associate Professor John Zornig of 
Electrical Engineering has strong 
suspicions, "The villain of the year Is 
now a music graduate student." He 
probably means Mark Tanner, '82, 
who worked for the Artificial In-
telligence project two years ago. He 
knew enough about the system to 
tamper with it, and although he has no 
student account, people say he has 
been seen around the facility. 

Tanner said, 
"I've 
only been 
downstairs (terminal room) once this 
year. They haven't said 'Boo' to me 
about this incident, and if they do I'm 
going to take them to court for harass-
ment." 

Last year Tanner used other 
people's passwords to look at private 
files. "It's wrong, I know. It's stupid. It 
was 3 a.m. and I wasn't thinking. It's 
over and done. I'm not willing to take 
the rap for all security breaches. They 
wanted my diploma for it last year. 
They didn't get it, I graduated, and 
now they're pissed." 

He added, "If I were to have an 
M. 0., it wouldn't be one of destruc-
tiveness, it's one of looking around. I 
have my own suspicions about who 
did it." But Tanner said the depart-
ment wasn't interested in listening to 
anybody. "The policy is guilty until 
you prove yourself innocent. n 

Since 1972, when the computer 
science department first offered classes 
to undergraduates, people have broken 
security. "At least a couple a year," said 
Professor Alan Perlis, director of 
undergraduate studies. Two years ago, 
a student programmed the computer 
so that when a student in an introduc-
tory course loggc;d on, the computer 
immediately logged him off. It had stu-
dents confused for days. The program-
mer was expelled. Last year two students 
experimented with a program that 
deleted "nodes" or directory files. For a 
while, the computer just deleted empty 
accounts, but it ran out of empty spaces 
and started erasing full ones. The 
students were reprimanded but not ex· 
pelled. 

As a result, Yale's computers are not 
open to just anyone. The administra-
tion has drawn a heavy line between 
access for faculty members, graduate 
students and the rest of the University. 
Most of the University, all introduc-
tory classes and some community 
businesses use the Yale Computer 
Center (YCC), where there is a large 
IBM computer and five brand-new 
VAX machines which run a system for 
general course use. 

The computer science department, 
however, reserves its superior equip-
ment for research. A recent National 
Science Foundation grant for $2.6 
million allowed the department to pur-
chase 15 new computers. Undergrads 
can use five of them, and computer 
science majors have privileged use of 
one VAX machine in the department. 
But it 
is a 
privilege continually 
threatened. 

The truth is that this machine, affec-
tionally 
called COMIX, is easily 
broken into. It runs UNIX, a research 
system designed by Bell Laboratories 
in 1970. Versatile, flexible and fast, 
UNIX is the Porsche of student 
systems- closest to intuitive reasoning 
and best for creative work. For that 
reason, it is also the hardest to secure. 

In fact, another computer jock, Mike 
Naunton, '83, later approached the 
facilities director with at least six ways 
some one could break in. 

One 
break-in 
method is simple, 
often used to plagiarize assignments. A 
student writes a program that mimics 
the terminal's "ready" mode. Some 
sucker sits down and unknowingly 
enters his password. Then the whole 
thing disappears; the program records 
the password. So the victim re-enters 
his code and, at this time really logs 
on. 

It's the oldest trick in the book, one 
an experienced computer hack would 
recognize immediately. It is unlikely 
that the vandal used this technique to 
break in. But the principle was un-
doubtedly the same. 

Even the department acknowledges 
that avid hacks could circumnavigate 
any security measures on the COM-
IX. Only Zornig questioned their 
prowess, "Are you so smug to think . 
there are that many leaks and you are 
that smart?" Naunton only shrugged, 
"Yes, sure. It's not a security system." 

So the department has struck an agree-
ment with the majors-anyone who 
suspects a leak will notify O'Donnell. 

Even the manual for upper level 
students describes ways to crash the 
UNIX system, overload disc space, 
and cause messes. But the first thing 
professors tell students in the course is, 
"Don't fuck with the system." And 
usually they don't . 

Everyone agrees there's nothing 
malicious about most break-ins. So 
why the ominous threats? "If we have 
students acting in an anti-social way, 
we must be brutal and cannot tolerate 
it," Perlis said. "It's exactly equal to 
vandalism, like walking into the gym-
nasium and ripping off ten lockers. 
And no one is kicking them off the 
VAX. 
We take 
these draconian 
measures because we have to say 
something strong." 

O'Donnell promised harsh action 
against the prankster- expulsion from 
the major and possible expulsion from 
the college. 

Perlis said, "These kids come out of 
high schools where they were kingpins. 
But they are immature. They've gotten 
used to being big shots on computers, 
they get here and they're walled in. 
Their egos can't take it. They've got to 
show how good they are, so they do 
something stupid like this." 

The problem is that no one can 
prove an undergraduate broke in. The 
computer science majors seem to feel 
this security break was just an excuse 
to restrict them further. "The depart-
ment sees us as a real nuisance, little 
brats. They have all this equipment, 
but they give us only one terminal. 
Then they even take that away," con-
fided Hoffman. 

The issue sparked a Deparmental 
Student Advisory Committee (DSAC) 
on Wednesday, September 22. They 
invited O'Donnell, Eizenstadt, and 
Zornig. About 33 students aired their 
concerns. 

Relations between faculty and


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Jeff Ho.flman '83, saw tk 
computer crime in progress. 
students are usually tense, but the at-
mosphere was light with jokes and 
jabs. 
"It's an attitude problem," said 
O'Donnell, "Loopholes in the security 
system are not a problem in a com-
munity of honorable people. The 
undergraduate took no responsibility 
for this break-in. I don't want to clean 
up after what happened this fall." 
DSAC suggested that students ad-
minister the COMIX, move it to 
YCC, where they can "appeal to their 
own kind," joked Sandhu. O'Donnell 
would cease to be a target for revenge 
this way, said Sandhu. 
O'Donnell said, "I certainly never 
wanted this hostile climate. Maybe we 
can spend time breaking and patching 
the system, add security. But first"he was 
adamant, "there must be change in at-
titude." Zornig chimed in, "You've got 
to explain it's not cute. Say, 'Hey Bim-
bo, what did you do that for?" 
Hoffman agrees some attitude must 
change. But whose? Hoffman said, 
"All they care about is how they look. 
The machines are a symbol of the 
department, and if security is broken, 
~ey don't look as good. Yale's attitude 
IS backwards." 
• 
Lindsay Roths, a junior i11 Daumport, 
Clli'Ttntly writesfor the Washington Post. 


**Title: Profile The grande dame of Hillhouse**
**Author: Bruce Owen**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

Rachel Trowbridge in her youth 
From the one open window, a ruddy 
light would sometimes spill down into 
the night. The brown temple house 
would lie dark, hidden behind drawn 
blinds and a little iron fence, but 
through that single upper window you 
could see into a warm room with a fine 
old wood framed mirroron the far wall. 
Located right across the street from the 
President's house, 
it is the only 
building on Hillhouse Avenue without 
a Yale sign, without people bustling in 
and out. 
Number 46 Hillhouse was the last 
private residence on Hillhouse 
Avenue, the home of a woman known 
to everyone of consequence in New 
Haven, the last of her family line. 
Rachel Trowbridge, grande dame, Ed-
wardian, philanthropist, lived in that 
house for 76 years. Her life linked the 
genteel days of New Haven harbor's 
West Indies trade with the tense 
moments when the National Guard 
rolled in before May Day and a bomb 
went off in Ingalls Rink. 
She died six weeks ago at age 83. 
Trowbridge was close to six feet tall, a 
big-boned, absolutely erect woman with 
a round, pleasant face. Even in her 
later years, she still drove her middle-
aged Oldsmobile from meeting to 
meeting of her many charitable causes. 
Surrounded by Yale, she never had 
any official connection with it. Yet she 
was anything but a recluse. To the 
unofficial club of Yale administrators 
living on Hillhouse Avenue she was ac-
cording to former Secretary of the 
University, Henry Chauncey, Jr. "a 
part of the family"; to the New Haven 
community, she was akin to a patron 
saint. 


Though she leaves a handful of 
cousins, she was the last of the old New 
Haven Trowbridge family line. In 
1643, when New Haven was a planta-
tion town of 800 inhabitants, Thomas 
Trowbridge was already one of the 
city's dozen 
wealthiest citizens . 
Throughout the eighteenth and nine-
teenth centuries, the Trowbridge fami-
ly prospered in the West Indies trade, 
growing in wealth and numbers until 
Trowbridge mansions studded New 
H aven and several T rowbridge sea 
captains could arrive and depart from 
New Haven harbor in a single week. 
During the Revolution, captain 
Caleb Trowbridge, commanding the 
privateer Firebrand, captured a valuable 
British schooner and its cargo. Ezekiel 
Trowbridge's mansion on Temple 
Street's "Quality Row" became a haven 
for escaping slaves during the Civil 
War, and Thomas R . Trowbridge 
managed to forestall the draft in New 
Haven for a year after 1862 by offering 
bounties 
to encourage volunteers. 
Rachel Trowbridge's father, Ruther-
ford Trowbridge, was in the West In-
dies trade until1891. Philanthropy was 
a 
family 
tradition ; 
Hayes Q. 
Trowbridge, a Yale student when 
Rachel Trowbridge was born in 1899, 
once gave the New Haven Foundation 
a single gift of more than five million 
dollars. 
According to Betsy Cheney, an old 
friend, Trowbridge's mother had such 
an aristocratic presence that when 
she walked into a room, conversa-
tion would stop. It was natural that 
Trowbridge would be raised as a for-
mal, even austere Edwardian lady, 
although the R everend Andy Fidler of 
the Trinity C hurch on the Green 
ascribes that image more to her 
shyness and uneasiness with small talk 
than to any unusual reserve. 
Trained first at a private school in 
New Haven, in 1913 Trowbridge went 
to 
Westover 
School 
in 
Middle-
bury- then a new top-notch boarding 
school for girls, now a prestigious old 
one. 
Classmate Margie Clement 
described her as "quite a force in the 
class" and as a person who lived up to 
the school motto she translates as "to 
think, to do, to be." 
. Trowbridge dressed plainly, wore 
httle jewelry, never used makeup, and


Est Est Est 
• newest pizza-ristorante in the Yale community 
• pizza, calzone, and subs 
• also cappuccino, espresso, and desserts 
• festive and relaxed atmosphere 
WE DELIVER 
anywhere in the Yale community 
open late hours seven days a week 
EST EST EST PIZZA 
corner of Chapel and Park Streets 
777-2059 

WHAT DO THESE PEOPLE HAVE IN COMMON? 
They were all in last yesrs yesl'book. This yesrs Banner wiD 
once again enterlBin, Illumine, lind thrill you with al'ticles and 
photogmphs of sports, p11rties, col~, 
c~ssses .. friends, 
emotions, and life at Yale. And above 1111, H'll wann the coclcles 
of your hesrt 25 yesn from now. 
Order the 1983 Yale Banner every night this week [the 18th to 
the 22ndJ at dinner In 1'8$/dentilll col~ 
11nd Commons. 
27 



**Title: Rachel Trowbridge: A New Haven Legacy**
**Author: Bruce Owen**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
·. 
drove a Chevrolet or an Olds rather 
than a Mer~edes or a Cafi~Ther~ 
was somethmg about the angle oT her 
head and the way she walked that was 
rather regal," her friend Ann Conklin 
explained. "She could wear what she 
chose; it was her bearing that made it 
look well." 


"A_ real Yankee in a good sense," ac-
cordmg to the Reverend Fidler, 
Trowbridge liked to do things for 
herself. When she wanted to meet a 
new person in town, she did not reach 
for a telephone. She walked up to the 
front door and rang the bell. 


Less than a year after Trowbridge 
carne home from Westover School in 
1917, her father died. "She was pretty 
much confined to her home for a long 
while," said Clement. Cheney added 
that though Trowbridge was the right 
age at that tme, "she never 'came out,' 
was never presented to society . . . and 
her parents were very austere about 
men." One way or another, she never 
married. 


Trowbridge and her half-sister 
Elsie, lived with her mother until Mrs: 
Trowbridge died in 1945. Trowbridge 
was 46 then, and her half-sister was 68. 
Though she was always independent, 
Trowbridge felt responsible for her 
half-sister, who was deaf and not 
very mobile, and she tried to involve 
her in as many -"·tivities as possible, 
cousin Franklin .. arrel said. Whc:n 
Elsie Trowbridge died in 1967, Rachel


Brewster she said with a smile, "The 
~ streets belong to the people'-they 
must mean us!" When a bomb explod-
1 ed in the hockey rink, rocking the 
i 
whole neighborhood, Trowbridge told 
Chauncey, "Why should I worry? It's 
just. a little thunder." 


Chauncey suggested · that Trow-
bridge move out of town for a while at 
Yale's expense, but she refused. She 
finally consented to let one campus 
policeman sit in the house while the 
National Guard assembled around the 
campus. "She knew what was going 
on," Chauncey said. "She understood 
why the students were upset .. . if she 
had been 19 or 20, she probably would 
have been right out there with 'em." 


What made Trowbridge so well 
known in New Haven was her philan-
thropy. She gave both time and money 
to many organizations, from the New 
Haven Symphony to the United Way, 
,Put her first love was the New Haven 
· Children's Center, a residential facility 
for disturbed children that was foun-
ded with her grandfather's help in 
1833. Her father served on the 
Center's board of directors, and 
Trowbridge took up the tradition in 
1923. Her main job was to raise money 
for the Center. She saw the Center 
change over the years, 
replacing 
around-the-clock volunteers with 
eight-hour day professional social 
workers, exchanging rows of white 
iron beds and matching uniforms for 
more individualized care. Her ad-
ministrative role limited her contact 
with the children, but some Center 
alumni remember a party at 46 
Hillhouse where she arranged for pony 
rides around the formal garden. 


Trowbridge was highly religious, 
and belonged to every group and com-
mittee of the Trinity Church on the 
Green except the men's club. She sup-
ported and worked with the New 
Haven Preservation Trust, the Clifford 
Beers Clinic and even the Yale-in-
China program. "One of a vanishing 
breed," said Reverdy Whitlock of the 
New Haven Preservation Trust, 
"Rachel felt that privileges carried with 
them responsibilities. She was genu-
inely concerned with bettering the 
human condition, and she saw New 
Haven, in particular, as a vineyard she 
had to till." 


Trowbridge was alone in 46 Hillhouse 
for the firs~ time in her 68 years. 


Elsie Trowbridge was reclusive and 
set in her ways, but Rachel 
Trowbridge was very modern in her 
outlook and was always interested in 
what young people were thinking. Ac-
cording to Lawson Willard, former 
rector of Trinity Church on the Green, 
she helped persuade the Episcopal 
Church to approve Planned Parent-
hood fifty years ago, and had been a 
supporter ever since . 


Though 
Trowbridge was used to dining on 
silver in her upstairs-downstairs house, 
she was just as happy having a noisy 
dinner in the kitchen with the hubbub 
of children all around her, said cousin 
Lisa Totman. "Rachel lived so much in 
the present," Chauncey said, "she was 
never an 'old' person." 


The demonstrations and student 
unrest in the 'sixties, much of it in front 
of then-President Kingman Brewster's 
house and just outside Trowbridge's 
windows, did not bother her a bit, said 
Chauncy. On the contrary, he con-
tinued, "she loved every minute of it. It 
fascinated her." Mary Louise Brewster 
remembered the weekend before May 
Day in 1970, when students painted 
"THE STREETS BELONG TO THE 
PEOPLE" in huge letters up Hillhouse 
Avenue. Trowbridge owned her one 
lot on upper Hillhouse, and Yale 


Forty-six Hillhouse Avenue-Rachel Trowbridge's home for 76 years. 
Chauncey solicited 
funds 
from 
Trowbridge only once, on behalf of the 
Yale-New Haven Hospital. When he 
spoke to her, she had already read all 
the materials he sent and knew exactly 
what to say. She had given once before 
and had been promised that a room 
would be named after her. Later, when 
she called the hospital, there was no 
such room. She did not like that. "But," 
she said, "I won't hold that against 
you," and she proceeded to give twice 
the amount Chauncey had planned to 
request. Trowbridge's generosity was 
~ unsual, said Willard, that the IRS 
anvestigated her repeatedly during the 
last 15 years. They always found her 
honest. 


Trowbridge never took life too 
leriously. "She had a wonderful sense 
of the ridiculous," said Mrs. William 
Reynolds, a long-time friend. Once: 
when President GriswaJd suggested 
that the half-sisters donate their 
backyard to Yale as the site for the pro-
posed Kline Science building, she and 
Elsie called up to say th~y had decided 
instead to bequeath the entire property 
to a local divinity school. "You know," 
she chuckled to Chauncey, "it really 
made him mad!" Trowbridge used to 
sit in her window every year and watch 
the big Hallowe'en party in front of the 
President's house. 


Mary Louise 
Brewster summed up Trowbridge's at-
titude as "amused with life. She 
watched Yale with, not a jaundiced, 
but a wry eye." 


The house Trowbridge lived in since 
1906 was built in 1632 in the then-
popular Greek Revival style. It is brick 
with a grooved stucco facing, original-
ly painted white to suggest stone. The 
house 
was a 
popular 
success, 
it served as a model for at least nine 
other temple houses in Connecticut. 
Remodeled extensively and painted 
reddish-brown in 1656, it was bought 
by Trowbridge's father around 1906. 
As it stands today, the New Haven 
She watched Yale with not 
a jaundiced, but a wry eye. 
Preservation Trust calls 
it "New 
Haven's finest Greek Revival house." 


Inside, half a dozen enormous, high-
ceilinged rooms on the first floor are 
furnished with exquisite Victorian fur-
niture, each room arranged to feel 
spacious but not spare, each piece 
placed perfectly to suggest dignity, 
opulence, and comfort, without a 
wasted detail or a hint of clutter. In 
one room a marble nude rests on a tall 
onyx pillar. An ornate fireplace and a 
grand piano dominate another room, 
and a third contains a petite walnut 
and beveled glass case displaying oval 
miniatures of the Trowbridge family 
carefully spaced across a tufted satin 
pillow. Worn Persian rugs cover pa~­
q_uet 
floors , 
elaborate cornice 
mouldings and velvet valences float 
above the high window tops, and on 
the light-patterned papered walls, old 
oils hang in huge gilt frames. The Tif-
fany lamps lighting almost every room 
were bought when they were the latest


" ••• If she had been 19 or 
20 she probably would 
have been right out there 
with them." 
style; the furniture was all in the family 
before Trowbridge was born. "None of 
this is m ine," she used to say. 


A warm panelled room in the back 
surrounds a regal slate billiard table-
resting on massive feet, and a triad of 
glowing Tiffany-style windows il-
lumine the adjoining alcove. Beyond 
them, an elaborate formal garden is 
carefully tended in the spacious yard 
facing Prospect Street. Upstairs, the 
ample bedrooms sport high four-poster 
and shining brass beds. In the latches 
of the doors are big old-style warded 
keys. "Rachel led a conventional life," 
the Reverend Fidler said, "given that 
she lived in a palace." 


The house she bequeathed to Yale, 
but the studiously arranged 
fur-
nishings within will probably be scat-
tered among Yale, the New Haven 
Historical Society, and Trowbridge's 
relatives said Farrel. He added that "it 
looks like the will will take a long time 
to settle." Right now, 
not even 
Trowbridge's lawyer will g\.less at the 
size of her estate. 


University Secretary John Wilkin-
son acknowledged that "Yale Universi-
ty has known we would get [the house] 
for some time, but they did not expect 
it so quickly . . . it came as quite a 
suprise." No decision has been made 
about the future of 46 Hillhouse, but 
Wilkinson said the University will not 
alter the exterior. Since the rest of the 
block is devoted to social sciences, he 
predicted that by late fall some social 
science department or institute will 
move in as the two Irish maids move 
out. The house is an extraordinary ac-
quisition for Yale, but those who knew 
her feel that the loss of Rachel 
Trowbridge to the New Haven com-
munity is greater still. Standing on the 
back steps of 46 Hillhouse, the maid 
could only say, "God must ha' been 
angry with us. Our hearts are broke." 


The Gardens at Rachel Trowbridge's estate 


**Title: Architecture The ills of A&A**
**Author: Tina Kelley**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Architecture 
The ills of A&A 
Tina Kelley 
Paul Rudolph's Art and Architecture building has been the center of 
controversy since it was built 20 years ago. 
"Everything that everyone says about 
the building is right. It's illogical, sordid, cantankerous and irritating, but 
in a way it's touching, moving and sad. 
It must have some power or people 
wouldn't have focused their attention 
on it so. It's awful and awesome," said 
art history professor Vincent Scully, 
speaking about what he once called 
"the tragic drama" of the Art and Architecture building. 

Throughout its 20-year history the 
building, located on the corner of York 
and Chapel streets, has been the center 
of controversy. It has been called 
everything from 
"a 
funhouse 
for 
visitors, but not a place for serious artists 
to work," to "a threatening, non-
functional nightmare." It has been 
criticized for its inadequate studio 
space, heating and ventilation problems and wretched lighting conditions. 
A fire destroyed parts of it, forcing 
drastic changes, and at one time trouble 
with asbestos ceilings forced the 
building to close down altogether. 
The structure, which is supposed to 
house the majority of facilities for both 
the art and architecture schools, has 
not provided sufficient space for them, 
causing further complaints. "Basically, 
it doesn't serve our needs," said Robert 
Reed, director of undergraduate 
studies for the art school. "The spaces 
we're working with are really inadequate, both in quality and square 
footage." One consequence is that the 
art department has to restrict enrollment in classes. "There is a direct relation 
between the amount of space 
available and what we can accommodate 
in terms of students," said Reed. 
In its early history the building's 
purpose was supposedly "to restore the 
various disciplines [it houses] to a 
measure of unity." But classes for the 
art school now are held in 215 Park 
Street, 53 Wall Street, and Hammond 
Hall on Mansfield Street, while studio 
space is spread out all over campus. 
"Ideally, all of the art school's activity 
should be housed in this building, in 
accord with its original plan, which 
was a noble idea," said Reed. 
The New Journal/October 15, 1982 


**The Art & Architecture Building: A Continuing Challenge**
**Author: Tina Kelley**
**Page number(s): 34**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"If you have to work here, you'll hate the building." book shelves which drain into garbage cans on the floor. A window from the viewing gallery down to the library has been blocked off to allow for more exhibition space, but noise from any gathering in the gallery reaches the library. "If you have to work here, you'll hate the building," said Lett. Secretary Maureen Florio noted that it intensified her moods. "If I'm in a good state of mind when I come in, I get happier. If I'm not, the building makes me feel worse," she said. A graduate student called the space she paints in "workable" but said engineering problems inside the building make work there inconvenient. "The light is good now, although it's strange that the lights are on constantly. I think that's poorly thought out," she said. 

Scully remembers that soon after the building's opening, critics complained that it didn't provide useful, functional, amply lit space to work in. "It surely doesn't do that," he said. 

Rudolph himself said, "Let's face it; modern architecture is about as functional as a Gothic cathedral." 

If the A.&A. has its practical drawbacks, what can be said about the building's aesthetic value? "You have to look at the period when it was built, read all the appreciations written about it, and see what the public was looking for at the time, which was monumentality and heroics," said Alexander Purves, director of undergraduate studies for the architecture school. "Twenty years later we find that a little hollow, as we're more concerned with the people who use our buildings now, but you have to make distinctions as to time frame, and consider who's criticizing from what point of view." In its early days the building received praise for its "spatial eloquence" and for being "a contrasting element in the anonymous townscape." 

"Some find it hostile; some, like me, find it sculpturally very exciting," said Purves "although the interior finishes of the walls done in concrete are very uncomfortable. I've skinned my hands on it more than once." Scully hates the material. a fluted concrete produced by hammering before it had dried. 

Rudolph himself was pleased with the paradox of the technique, saying, "It is relatively carefully built, but the handling of the surface renders it purposefully mud." Scully called the surface "revolting," and said it cost roughly ten times as much as smooth concrete such as that of Kahn's building, which he finds beautiful. 

A continuing challenge 
Scully senses a change in attitude toward the A.&A., saying, "I think the building has reached a nadir and will start to come back in appreciation. People will begin to appreciate the earnestness of its architectural attempt. In a later age they will not make so much fuss about its function. I suspect they'll find it a noble monument." Garvin, who called the building "lousy," tempered this by saying, "At least it tries to be a piece of architecture, something many recent structures do not do." 

Functionally, it appears that the building will not change significantly with the times. Jerald Stevens, vice president for finance and administration, admitted that lack of work space helps prevent the art school from bringing in additional students but Yale can't afford to let the school expand, Stevens said. Regarding the building itself, "The University has spent God-awful amounts of money to keep (it) alive and well, but it's inconceivable that anyone working there would deny that it has problems, because it does." He also voiced concern about safety at the A.&A., the scene of several crimes, but noted that its neighborhood seems to be improving. 

At the time of the A.&A.'s dedication, Rudolph voiced his belief that the prime responsibility of the teacher is to present his students with a provocative approach in order to arouse individual thinking. In its 20-year history, the Art and Architecture building has certainly provoked much change, praise and criticism. In the words of Scully, "It's a constant irritation and a challenge." 

• 
Tina Kelley, a sophomore in Morse, has written for Seventeen and The Lyric.


**Theater: The Dramats Unite**
**Author: Laura Pappano**
**Page number(s): 35-36**

The dramats unite 
The cast of Fiorello rehearses in a squash court. 
Laura Pappano 
If every member of the Yale Symphony were to play "Bulldog" in a different key, the sound would be something like theater at Yale: while talent and energy abound, there is surprisingly little coordination among the various groups. When the choice performance weekends roll around, it is as if The Great Race has just begun: each team dashes around campus armed with flyers, posters, and table tents; signboards outside Yale Station battle for the premium spots; and dining halls fill with the sounds of spoons tapping glasses, heralding energetic announcements. It is all very colorful and exciting to witness, but how healthy is it for theater at Yale? 

"I worry about this campus," said Sally Rosenberg, co-director of the Ezra Stiles Dramat, "The amount of theater is wonderful. Over 30 productions went up last spring. But because there's so much, there's a tendency towards competition. And it's not just, 'Oh, no, our show's going up this weekend so we've got to publicize and get the audiences.' It has the potential to be destructive sometimes-like who gets the call in first to the lighting man." 

The problem stems partly from shortages- from lights and platforms to time and space- and partly from poor communication. Dramats are hesitant to lend out equipment because it has not been returned in the past. They have recently lost several key rehearsal and performance spaces. And they have always scheduled their performances independently, with only partial knowledge of other groups' plans. There once was a College Dramat Council, an organization designed to address these problems, but it rarely met, and Rosenberg said it was "not very structured." 

Now, David Loud, head of Yale Musical Theater (YMT), is leading a movement to unite the college dramats under a revitalized College Dramat Council. Loud wants to transform the loose, lackadaisical Council of the past into a cohesive unit that can exert influence when appropriate. 

The first meeting of the new Dramat The New Journal/October 15, 1982 35

When the choice performance weekends roll around, It Is as If the Great Race has just begun. 

Council a month ago created a lot of enthusiasm among those who attended. "This one is going to go places, seriously go places," said Jaji Packard, co-director of the Trumbull Dramat. Discussion focused on the problems of scheduling and of finding rehearsal and performance space. 

Loud sees the Council as both a uniting front in the fight for theater space and as a forum for communication among the college dramats. "I think if people are communicating, the red tape of theater at Yale would be diminished and directors could spend more time directing their shows," Loud said. 

Scheduling is the primary concern. Last spring when Jesus Christ Superstar went up at Ezra Stiles, students either bought tickets and sat, sardine-style, within yellow-taped lines on the dining hall floor, or didn't see any show at all that weekend. That was because the dramat heads had heard that the rock opera was going to be outstanding and they didn't want to open opposite a rumored hit. The result: seven shows opened the following weekend, several suffering poor houses. 

Amy Ludwig, YMT board member, co-director of the Trumbull Dramat and a board member of the new Dramat Council, believes that the clustering of shows is most often a result of the dramats avoiding "big academic events"- midterms, finals, the start of classes and so forth. "These weekends exist," Ludwig explains, "but they're just not feasible." 

Although there are certainly weekends during the term in which no one has time to either produce or attend a show, there could be better distribution. Loud suggests that the members could consult with each other about the dates of their shows. "There's nothing we can do to stop nine shows from going up in a weekend, but presumably it's in everybody's interest not to do that," Loud said. 

Preventing such scheduling mishaps requires participation from all fronts, Loud said. "We want the Council to be made up of as many different groups as possible. Any theater group could send a representative to the Council and it would be great." 

But Hillary Gitelman, board member of the Yale Dramat, is wary of participating. "We really can't be a part of the Dramat Council because it looks like we're stepping in and trying to take over. And that's the furthest thing from our mind." Gitelman feels uneasy about the relationship between the Yale Dramat and the college dramats. "Everyone's always saying that they don't like us out there. The relationship has been strained or non-existent out of misunderstanding." And that's unfortunate, Gitelman says, because "we can help them and they can certainly help us." 

The Yale Dramat and the college dramats are especially in a position to lend each other support now, as each group searches for a solution to what is perhaps campus theater's biggest problem- finding space. "We just want the University to provide us with space- not even a theater space-just a big David Loud, head of the Yale Musical Theater room somewhere that all the colleges could share," Loud said. 

Although there has always been a shortage of space, recent developments have made the problem even more severe. The Educational Center for the Arts lost a federal subsidy last year, driving its rental fee beyond the means of college dramats. 

The Yale Dramat recently lost its


**Title: Yale Dramatics: A Space Odyssey**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
key rehearsal space at 305 Crown 
Street to the Yale Rep. Gitelman ex-
plains the situation: "It was meant to 
be a huge complex of undergraduate 
activities. Dean [David] Henson put 
himself on the l~ne, telling u~ that this 
was the space for us, and trymg to g_et 
us interested in it. All this time the Rep 
had space at 205 Crown and they were 
paying a huge amount for it. Over the 
summer something snapped and 
somehow they handed the space to the 
Rep." 


When faced with the problem of fin-
·ding large spaces, dramats often turn 
to dining halls. But to most per-
formers, 
producers, 
directors and 
technicians, dining halls rank low on 
their list of favorite working spaces. 
"YMT was originally formed to per-
form musicals NOT in dining halls, 
Loud said. "You spend three-fourths of 
your energy moving tables. It's always 
a mess." This term, both of YMT's fall 
musicals, Fiorello and A Funny Thing 
Happened on the Way to the Forum (co-
sponsored by Ezra Stiles Dramat) will 
be performed in dining halls. 


Recently, 
some dining hall 
managers have been cracking down on 
student shows, limiting the number of 
productions or outright denying the 
use of dining hall space. Calhoun will 
now permit only one dining hall show 
per semester, while Davenport will no 
longer allow any dining hall shows. 


This crack-down was apparent at the 
end of last term when the commence-
ment show, Mem"/y We Roll Along, was 
refused dining hall space. The produc-
tion crew was forced to build an entire 
stage from scratch in 101 Linsley-Chit. 
"They just died," Loud recalled. "I 
think it took them three days to strike 
the thing. They absolutely killed 
themselves." 


The new Dramat Council has sent a 
letter to President A. Bartlett Giamat-
ti and is now in the process of putting 
together a more formal petition . 


Much of YMTs impetus to par-
ticipate in the administration of the 
new Dramat Council seems to stem 
from its own frustrations with the lack 
of space. As Loud said, "You can't do 
Fiorello in a squash court." 

**Title: Mothers and sisters**
**Author: Sylvia Wilson**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

Books 
Mothers and sisters 
Sylvia Wilson 
Gloria Naylor, a graduate studerzt 
in Afro-American studies. 
Tht Womm of Brew$/er Plact 
by Gloria Naylor 
1982 The Viking Press 192 pp. 
~ "Nuuneg arn1s leaned over window .. 
~ sills, 
gnarled ebony legs carried 
55 groceries up double flights of steps, 
~ and saffron hands strung out wet laun-
dry on backyard lines ... they cursed, 
badgered, worshipped, and shared 
their men. They were 
hard~edged, 
soft-centered, brutally demanding and 
easily pleased ... " 


These black 
women are the characters in Gloria 
Naylor's first novel, The Women of 
Brtwsttr Place. 


Naylor, a graduate student in Afro-
Amer'can Studies, illustrates what it 
means to be a black woman today 
through the stories of the six "colored 
daugh~ers" of Brewster Place, a dead-
end neighborhood in a fictional New 
York City ghetto. Despite their diverse 
ages and backgrounds, their different 
shades of ebony, cinnamon, nutmeg 
and saffron, these women all come to 
share a common bond- their neigh-
borhood. Twice abandoned, first by its 
white founding fathers and then by the 
Italian immigrants who followf"d, 
Brewster Place is now a run-down 
haven for the "Afric children" in search 
of new beginnings. 


The seven stories that make up the 
novel tell the history behind each 
woman's move to Brewster Place. The 
reader follows them from girlhood into 
womanhood, finding that, because 
they are all black and female, they 
shared some of the same difficulties 
with 
prejudice and discrimination 
while growing up, despite their dif-
ferences in class or background. But, 
they all come to Brewster Place a little 
wary of each other. They do not 
recognize their similarities because 
they are blinded by their differences. 


The lesbian is ostracized because the 
others cannot understand her love for 
another woman. The college-educated 
suburbanite who willingly comes to 
Brewster Place to "be with her people" 
finds that she has trouble understan-
ding the other black women in the 
neighborhood and they cannot under-
stand her. The free-spirited wom an 
who has many lovers is distrusted by 
the others because they fear she will try 
to steal their men. 


The jealousy and susp1c10n among 
these women keeps them apart. It is 
not until one of the lesbians is 
raped and murdered that they realize 
their common bond- they are all 
struggling to survive in a world which 
discriminates against them, not only 
because of their race, but because of 
their gender as well. They try to 
rebuild Brewster Place, to make it a 
safer and cleaner place to live, and in 
doing so they create a new unity. 


Through their common struggle to 
survive we see that this is a novel about 
black sisterhood, and it is Naylor's 
delicate development of this sisterhood 
that is most impressive and moving in 
the novel. 


Gloria Naylor is a native New 
Yorker who attended Brooklyn College 
and now studies Afro-American 
Studies and Critical Theory at Yale. 
She recalled in a recent interview the 
frustration she felt as an under-
graduate during the mid-1970s, when 
black literature meant the literature of 
black men, and women's studies of-
fered only the literature of white 
women . 


"I was running back and forth across 
campus trying very hard to find 
something that might reflect me and 
reflect my reality. When I would ap-
proach some of my professors and I 
would tell them that in these literature 
courses I would like to do a paper on 
the works of black women, let's say 
from 
1900-1930, 
I'd get derisive 
remarks like, 'Go ahead, but you won't 
find much'." That was when Naylor 
decided that if she were to become a 
writer she would write about black 
women "to do something -to fill that 
void" that she found in literature. 


The Women of Brewster PWce provides 
such a powerful characterization of 
black sisterhood that strong, constant 
rela tionships between black women 
and black men are rarely apparent. 
M attie, a middle-aged mother figure, 
comforts Ciel, a younger woman who 
seeks solace after the death of her only 
child . . Mattie symbolizes strong black 
womanhood, and her relationship with 
Ciel is far more potent and genuine 
than that between Ciel and her lover. 


The men rarely seem to be as strong as 
the women and are frequently absent 
from their lives, making it appear that

one relationship excludes the other. 
Naylor emphasizes the importance 
of not accentuating the relationships 
between men and women in the nove). 
"The bonding that has existed 
historically between women is not pre-
sent or is not given the foreground (in 
literature) that I think it should, and 
that was what I tried to do in Brewster 
PltJce." 


Perhaps the most sensitive aspect of 
the novel is Naylor's depiction of two 
lesl:iian lovers, Theresa and Lorraine, 
known merely as "The Two" by their 
neighbors. Their arrival at Brewster 
Place continues a desperate search for 
acceptance after humiliating rejection 
elsewhere. But even in Brewster they 
meet with suspicion and hostility: 
"Their regular exits and entrances to 
the block were viewed with a jaundiced 
eye. The quiet that rested around their 
door on the weekends hinted of all sorts 
of secret rituals, and their friendly in-
difference to the men on the street was 
an insult to the women as a brazen 
flaunting of unnatural ways." 


The struggle to define the true 
meaning of sisterhood among the 
women of Brewster Place is painfully 
illustrated in their difficulty 
in 
understanding their lesbian sisters. It 
is only after one of "The Two" is 
murdered in a brutal and bloody rape 
that the other women realize a com-
mon bond with Lorraine and Theresa, 
based simply on their mutual struggle 
to survive as women. Naylor uses the 
rape as a unifying force because she 
feels 
that 
it 
is 
the "common 
denominator for all women, regardless 
of class, race, or sexual preference. We 
are all not only potential victims of 
rape, but we live in a society which has 
a rape mentality as far as who we are as 
entities." Lorraine's rape therefore 
makes each of the women realize "that 
the lack of comfort, the lack of female 
bonding which should have been there 
for every woman, regardless of whom 
she chose to love, was not." They need-
ed to be reminded that "under the skin, 
they were all sisters." 


Sylvia Wilson is a junior in Branford. 

- IN CONCERT-
RambllD' Jack 
EWot 
BE Dave Vcm Ronk 
two legendary folk-blues artists 
Tuesday, Oct. 19 
MarvelleHes 
Wednesday, Oct. 20 
Tom Paxton 
Tuesday, Oct 26 
Mary Travers 
Tuesday, Nov. 2 
To Be Announced 
Nov. 9,16,23 
APPEARING IN NOVEMBER 
Martha Reeves 
The Crystals 
The Drifters 
FRIDAYS & SATURDAYS: Dance all night long 
to the area's finest groups. 
Come Uptown for Sunday Brunch with 
Champagne and Piano Entertainment 
- -
L 
- t": 
I 
"t -i I •· 
• Homestyle Italian Food 
• Hearty Drinks 
• Lunch and Dinner 
• Plano Bar 
• Late night menu 
• Rathskeller 
'xwo stars-plus, just si!Mt of three. • -Patricia Brook , J1f Y. Times 
387 ..()5()() 
The New JoumaVOctober 15, 1982 39 



**Title: Now Available At the Co-op**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Now Available At the Co-op 
OUT -OF-PRINT SEARCH SERVICE 
Have you looked for an old favorite or a needed book 
for reference and discovered that it is no longer available? 
The Yale Co-op will now search for any out-of-print title. 
Simply fill out a form in the Book Department. Our staff can 
assist you. No general requests please, we will search 
only for specific titles. 
Most searches take from 4-12 weeks. However, if not 
available at first, your request can be kept on file for up to 
five years. If a copy is located, the price will first be quoted 
to you. Prices are determined by availability and condition; 
OP books often command a premium price. 
There is no obligation to buy when a price is quoted, but 
should you accept the quote, full payment is required at 
that time. It may then take several weeks for the book to 
arrive. All books offered are sold on a first-come, first-
served basis, so it is best to respond as soon as possible. 
All SAl[S AR[ FINAl 
NO R[TURNS ALLOW[O 
For in-print books not in our 40,000 title stock, 
ask about our "7 Day Search" (no fees) or Special 
Orders (postage charge added). 

