Publication date: February 7, 1992
Volume: 2.4
Issue number: 4


**MASTHEAD:**
- Editorials: Jennifer Potts


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- About This Issue
- Who Governs Now? ... by Erik Meers
- Children of Eli ... by Sonya Joo
- Paying Science Hill's Bill ... by Julie Freedman
- Tenure: Excellence or Politics? ... by Jennifer Pins
- Tough Times in the Ivory Tower ... by Charlotte Brooks
- Cooperative Security ... by Kathy Reich
- Uneasy Alliance ... by Joel Tesoro
- SOM: Back to Business ... by Katherine McCarron
- Forestry: A New Leaf ... by Diana Montgomery
- Philosophy: An Existential Crisis ... by Sara Heider
- Afterthought: Reflections on the Future


**Title: Who Governs Now?**
**Author: Erik Meers**
**Page number(s): 6**
A year that began with intense hostility between faculty and administration may end in the transformation of university power relations.


**Title: Children of Eli**
**Author: Sonya Joo**
**Page number(s): 10**
Why does legacy status double an applicant's chances to spend the next four years in New Haven?


**Title: Paying Science Hill's Bill**
**Author: Julie Freedman**
**Page number(s): 12**
The university's budget deficit will double if the federal government slashes its funding for scientific research at Yale.


**Title: Tenure: Excellence or Politics?**
**Author: Jennifer Pins**
**Page number(s): 14**
Yale's cumbersome and often mysterious tenure process faces a new charge: that politics and ideology have invaded the system.


**Title: Tough Times in the Ivory Tower**
**Author: Charlotte Brooks**
**Page number(s): 18**
As recession sweeps the country, Yale is not the only university that faces financial dilemmas.


**Title: Cooperative Security**
**Author: Kathy Reich**
**Page number(s): 30**
The university puts its money where its mouth is on security as Yale joins New Haven police to protect Mansfield Street.


**Title: Uneasy Alliance**
**Author: Joel Tesoro**
**Page number(s): 32**
Yale claims it's making new commitments to the community, but New Haven leaders worry about the gap between promises and performance.


**Title: SOM: Back to Business**
**Author: Katherine McCarron**
**Page number(s): 20**
After years of turmoil, SOM is trying to fit into the mold of a traditional business school.


**Title: Forestry: A New Leaf**
**Author: Diana Montgomery**
**Page number(s): 24**
The Forestry School turns out some of the nation's most influential environmentalists. Can it cope with its own success?


**Title: Philosophy: An Existential Crisis**
**Author: Sara Heider**
**Page number(s): 27**
While the crumbling philosophy department attempts short-term solutions, students and faculty fear for its future.


**Title: Afterthought: Reflections on the Future**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 36**


**Title: YQCC**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
YQCC 
--
....... -
1411 y TOrtt --
... 
I I 
~ 
! 
I --
OoU.,O 
Copies only 3 :Ya ¢ 
STUDENTS 
20% off 
any servtce 
for the 
month of 
February 
Must Show 1.0. 
916 whalley avenue 
new haven, ct. 
3876799 
cannot be used wilh any other offer 
Yale Quick 
Copy Cen~er 
149 York Street 
432-COPY 
(432-2679) 
8 to 6:30 
Monday-Frlda.y 
Resumes, Ta.bletents, 
Posters, Course ma.terla.l, 
Typesetting from 
Macintosh disks, ~ 
whatnot 
•per oopy for more than ten ooples or t.he sa.me original; 
t.he prloe 1s 4 oents each for one to ten ooples. 



**Title: The New Journal Publisher and Staff**

4 
THE New JouRNAL 
TheNewJournal 
PuBLISHER 
Anna Ljunggrm 
EDITOR-I N-CHIEF 
jennifer Pitts 
MANAGING EDITORS 
Kathmn~ McCarron 
ErikMurs 
Kathy Reich 
B uSINESS MANAGER 
julian Ku 
DESIGNER 
Ann~tu Kirchn~r 
PROD UCTION MANAGER 
Sarah Dijulio 
P HOTOGRAPHY EDITOR 
joey Liao 
AssociATE PuBLISHER 
TtnaAsmuth 
AssociATE EDITOR 
Emily Baulon 
CIRCULATION MANAGER 
jayPorur 
SuBscRIPTION MANAGER 
Yoshi lnou~ 
STAFF 
Kat~ Br~ster- Char/ott~ Brooks• 
Masi Dmison• Susan Dominus•juli~ 
Frudman• jason Gilb"t"'• Caitlin 
Macye Savannah N~~ly*• David 
Suisman•jo~l 'ftsoro• Kathken 
Weyman* ·B~th ZasloJr 
"'~kcud Febrwzry 1, 1992 
MnnbaY and Dir«UJn: 
Edward B. Bennett 111 • Constance Oemenr 
• Peter B. Cooper • Andy Court • Brooks 
Kelley • Pauicia Pierce • Fred Strebeigh • 
Thol'Yl2$ Strong 
Frinrds: Anson M. Beard, Jr. • Edward B. 
Bennett, Jr. • Edward B. Bennett lli • Blai.re 
Bennett • Gerald Bruck • Jonathan M. Clark 
• Louise F. Cooper • Peter B. Cooper • Jerry 
and Rae Court • David Freeman • Geoftfrey 
Fried • Sherwin Goldman • John Hersey • 
Brooks Kelley • Andrew J. Kuz.neski, Jr. • 
Lewis E. Lehrman • E. Nobles lowe • Peter 
Neill • Julie Peters • Fairfax C. Randal • 
Nicholas X. Rizopoulos • Arleen and Arthur 
Sa~er • Dick and Debbie Sears • Richard 
Shields • Thol'Yl2$ Suong • Elizabeth Tate • 
Alex and Betsy Torello • Allen and Sarah 
Wardell • Daniel Ye:rgin 


**Title: About This Issue**
**Page number(s): 5**

ABouT THIS IssuE 
Several months ago, one professor told 
a N~w ]our_nal writer that Yale had 
reached a turning point. As in the 50s, 
when a more diverse student body 
entered Yale as a result 
of the GI bill, 
and as in 1969, 
when Yale College 
admitted women 
for the first time, 
the university faces 
tough choices about 
how to adapt to a 
world in transition. 
Some members of the 
Yale community take 
issue with the university's 
responses to recession, 
growing cultural diversity, 
and the ivory tower's chang-
ing relationship to the outside world. 
"The restructuring report gives no 
sense that the world is any different 
today than it was 50 years ago," histo-
ry professor Gaddis Smith told us. 
"This is one of those moments when 
universities have to do more than 
restructure--they have to rethink their 
relationship to the world." 
Who defines that relationship? At 
Yale, a number of constituencies have 
advocated visions for the future. The 
restructuring committee wants to 
eliminate weak departments and forge 
a 
smaller, 
stronger 
university. 
Professors insist that academic excel-
lence mwt take priority over financial 
needs. And the unions and GESO 
struggle to retain a voice for workers 
and graduate students. A university 
thrives on controversy and debate, but 
without some sort of consensus, noth-
ing gets done. 
As we interviewed students, pro-
fessors, and administrators about Yale's 
identity crisis, we noticed that they 
frequently knew only what was hap-
pening in their own spheres of interest. 
In this issue, Th~ N~ 
journal hopes to 
inform 
disparate 
Editor's Note 
branches of Yale about 
other parts in the 
whole. The loss o f 
government research 
funds o n Science 
Hill could necessi-
tate 
trimming 
tenure slots in 
other 
depart-
ments. 
And 
cutbacks 
tn 
engineer ing 
may discour-
- ] GP 
Kelly Graham, a member of the AIDS 
Brigade who appeared 
in o ur 
December issue, died in January. Th~ 
N~ journal staff sends our regrets to 
his family and friends. 
Organizational Meeting 
TN] will hold an organizational meet-
ing on Tuesday, February ll , at 7:30 
in the Berkeley Common Room . 
We're looking for a few good writers, 
photographers, bwinesspeople, artists, 
and computer whizzes. See what sur-
prises we have in store for you! 


**Title: Who Governs Now?**
**Author: Erik Meers**
**Page number(s): 6**

Who Governs Now? 
Erik Meers 
6 THE NEw JouRNAL 
'' 
T
he first time I heard of the possibility of sociol-
ogy being cut was in the Yak Daily N~ws," said 
sociology professor Deborah Davis. "People 
kept calling me to ask, 'Is it true your department is being 
cut?' I thought, 'This is madness. They can't cut an up-and-
coming discipline.' But the rumors kept coming." 
When the Restructuring Committee's report appeared 
on January 15, the gossip Davis had heard for month~ 
proved only half true. Though the department had faced 
possible elimination, the committee recommended cutting 
the number of faculty positions in sociology by close to 50 
percent. The sociology department's experience illustrates 
Yale's secretive and frequently autocratic decision-making 
process, which excludes most of the faculty from consulta-
tion and concentrates power in the hands of a few adminis-
trators. 
At least a year ago, President Benno Schmidt, Provost 
Frank Turner, and Yale College Dean Donald Kagan deter-
mined that a cut of about 15 percent in the faculty budget, 
along with deep reductions in other areas, was necessary to 
maintain the university's financial condition. By the time 
the Restructuring Committee first met in February 1991, 
both Turner and Kagan had developed personal visions for 
the restructuring. They gave the committee the now-famil-
iar list of departments-including sociology, linguistics, 
engineering, and operations research-which they believed 
fell beneath Yale's standards for excellence. They argued that 
the university should focus its resources and eliminate ics 
weaker departments instead of making an across-the-board 
cut that would devastate even strong disciplines. According 
to one committee member, the departments that the 
administration wanted to scrutinize were seen as "problem-
atic by most of the Yale faculty as well." 
The Restructuring Committee pressed the adminiscra· 
cion to demonstrate the necessity for budget reductions. 
"The president and the provost had to compromise on the 
size of the cuts," said Gerald Jaynes, chairman of African·
FEBRUARY 7· 199Z 



**Title: Yale's Restructuring**
**Author: Erik Murs**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
American studies. "Initially, they came in saying they want-
ed 15 percent cut from the budget. The committee decided 
that would be totally intolerable, and we said so." After con-
siderable debate, the committee convinced the administra-
tion to endorse a reduction of 10.7 percent. 


Over months of meetings, the committee members 
underwent an intensive education on the condition ofYale's 
academic departments, conducting interviews with depart-
ment chairs and outside experts. The meetings transformed 
their attitudes coward the issues involved with restructuring. 
According co one committee member, "We arrived at con-
clusions that none of us would have anticipated at the out-
set." 


The committee agreed co concentrate the cuts in the 
weaker departments, but differed strongly with Turner over 
which ones to axe. Although they carne to a consensus on 
cutting linguistics and operations research, several commit-
tee members said they would not want to teach at a univer-
sity without sociology or engineering. While few who 
served on the committee would speak on the record on this 
topic, Jaynes acknowledged, "There are departments still in 
existence as of this report that wouldn't have been if the ini-
tial viewpoint of che provost had gone through." 


Faculty members worried that the committee, com-
posed of professors hand-picked by the president and the 
provost, would rubber-stamp the administration's agenda. 
Many of those tapped for che committee had served on 
Yale's Budget Committee and consequently might look on 
cuts more favorably. The committee's recommendations, 
however, assuaged the fears of most professors. Many seem 
to agree with the opinion of committee member Richard 
Brodhead: "The report does not represent anybody's parry 
line. This is the work of a lot of independent-minded peo-
ple working in the face of unpleasant necessity." 


Indeed, the committee included outspoken critics of 
university policy like Jaynes, who recently wrote an unfa-
vorable report on Yale's minority hiring practices. "I did not 
fEBRUARY 7• 1992. 
TH£ NEw JouRNAL 7


see·the committee as puppets of the 
president or the provost, n said Jaynes. 
"In fact, one of the reasons I agreed to 
serve on the committee was its compo-
sition. It was clear to me that they had 
chosen strong individuals." 


The fact that the administration 
gave professors a limited but substan-
tial role in the restructuring process 
represents a major victory for the fac-
ulty. According to Kagan, "There 
has never been a subject of this sig-
nificance in which the faculty has 
had as much involvement." In the 
70s, the two committees that consid-
ered proposals to reduce the number 
of Yale professors had no faculty rep-
resentation at all. In 1978, a commit-
tee of four administrators proposed 
cutting Yale's faculty by ten per-
cent-a reduction that was never 
fully implemented because of the 
booming economy of the 80s. 


While the current restructuring 
committee may be Yale's most demo-
cratic yet, some professors believe 
that the fundamental problem was 
the committee's narrow agenda. As 
Yale cuts programs in response to 
deficits, it is adding new courses with 
recently acquired gifts. The adminis-
tration handed the committee the axe 
to shape the cuts, but left discretion 
over new programs for itself. "There 
is a kind of de facto restructuring 
going on," said Michael Denning, 
American studies professor. "We no 
longer have linguistics; we have Bass 
Western civilization. It wasn't even 
part of the charge of the committee 
to think about. Can anyone with $20 
million come in and decide what our 
educational priorities are?" 


With no formal restructuring 
plan, the administration alone evalu-
ates the needs of the university. The 
Development Office uses a list of pri-
orities set by the Provost's Office 
when it solicits donors. This so-
called "shopping list" serves as the 
university's academic blueprint. 


"Very often what donors want to do 
8 TH£ NEW JouRNAl. 
when they come to talk to us doesn't 
line up with the priorities that the 
community has embraced. So it is 
our task to persuade people from 
whatever their original idea was to 
something that is a higher priority 
for us," said Terry Holcombe (SY 
'64), vice president for Development 
and Alumni Affairs. 


T
he Committee issued its 
report at the midpoint of a 
year that began with intense 
hostility between the faculty and the 
administration, a year that may end 
in a transformation of university 
power relations. Many faculty mem-
bers blame Dean Kagan in particular 
for their increasingly contentious 
relationship with the administration. 
As dean, they say, Kagan has played 
the role of partisan rather than mod-
erator. 


Kagan damaged his standing 
with the faculty early on. Over facul-
ty protests, the dean implemented 
the Kagan-Pollitt plan, which radi-
cally changed graduate education at 
Yale. The plan limited the time stu-
dents could spend in graduate pro-
grams to six years and capped the 
number of positions for teaching 
assistants. "It is unfortunate that facul-
ty suspicion and alienation, bred 
by certain administration actions in 
recent years, should have created the 
atmosphere in which the restructur-
ing report is being received," said one 
department chair. 


Yale's 
governing 
structure 
allowed the administration to impose 
the Kagan-Pollitt plan without facul-
ty consent. The university invests 
almost complete authority over aca-
demic programs and spending priori-
ties in the hands of four administra-
tors-the president, the provost, the 
dean ofYale College, and the dean of 
the Graduate School. Faculty have 
relied on what can no longer be 
called their "good faith" relationship 
with the administration for the pro-
tection of their interests. "What is 
unprecedented is not the high-hand-
edness of the provost and the dean," 
said Denning, "but that their vision 
is at such odds with the larger part of 
the faculty." 


Faculty trust in the administra-
tion, and in Kagan especially, 
reached its nadir last fall when an 
article the dean wrote for the journal 
Academic Questiom circulated among 
professors. In the piece, Kagan char-
acterized Yale's hum:tnities faculty as, 
among other things, "a bunch of 
funny guys." He seemed to disparage 
the faculty repeatedly with state-
ments like: "Consider what a cor~ 
[curriculum} constructed by the cur-
rent faculty would look like, and the 
consequence that would ensue if 
they also had the responsibility of 
teaching it." Kagan explained that he 
believed most Yale professors would 
not be qualified to teach his concep-
tion of a core curriculum because 
most of the faculty do not believe in 
the centrality of Western civilization. 


The full Faculty of Arts and 
Sciences packed Linsly-Chittenden 
1 0 1 to debate Kagan's article last fall. 
Professors lined up to give speeches 
denouncing the dean's views while 
he responded to their criticism. The 
faculty seemed relieved to get 
Kagan's ear and aired their grievances 
w~th the administration's policies. By 
the estimate of one professor at the 
meeting, over 90 percent of the 
speakers criticized Kagan. Many who 
spoke accused him of violating the 
"good faith" relationship between 
the faculty and the administration. 


During the course of the debate, 
many realized for the first time their 
powerlessness in the university's 
administrative structure. 


Reflecting on the experience, 
Kagan defiantly stands by his state· 
ments. "I expressed some views 
which I think are correct and that 
offend some of my colleagues," said 
Kagan. "They proceeded to tell me 
fEBRUARY 7• 1991 


what they thought of my views, which 
I think is a very fine exchange." 


In the wake of the meeting, many 
participants formed a committee to 
investigate ways for the faculty to 
influence administrative decisions. 
Some professors formed an explorato-
ry committee that will nominate facul-
ty members to a group called the 
Committee on Governance. They will 
study other universities for models of 
integrating faculty opinion into the 
decision-making process. 


Even those professors who respect 
the work of the Restructuring 
Committee believe that the way the 
committee was selected exemplifies 
Yale's autocratic power structure. 
Members of the committee and the 
administration counter that it would 
have been impossible for Yale's large 
and diverse faculty to reach a consen-
sus on cutting any departments. 


Faculty concerns are not diminished 
by Kagan's response to their fears. "I 
could not imagine an effective way of


How bad is the deficit? 
The -white Paper/ issued by Provost 
Frank Turner in December, projects that 
the deficit will grow to $101 .2 million 
by the year 2000 if earning and spend-
ing continue along their current paths. 
Yale financed its $8.8 million deficit for 
the 1991 -92 academic year with 
money from the unrestricted reserves 
fund. Years of relying on this "'cushion" 
fund leave it with only $264,000. 


Where is the deficit? 
Yale's operating budget totals $799 
million, but the deficit occurs only in the 
$265 million portion for generol appro-
priations. Funds allocated for specific 
PI'Oiects, programs, and facilities, such 
as research grants for the School of 
Medicine or the endowment for the 
~sh Art Center, comprise the remain-
•ng $534 million of the budget. This 
part of the balance sheet is, in fact, bal-
anced. 


-corinn Columpor 


involving the faculty more than the 
one we did," said Kagan. "Shall we 
have an Athenian assembly where you 
put the citizenry up on a hill and have 
a debate on every point? That is mad-
ness!" 


While few professors seek a vote 
by the full citizenry on every restruc-
turing decision, many believe that the 
administration should have incorpo-
rated at least some democratic princi-
ples into the process. "There was no 
opportunity for dialogue," said sociol-
ogy's Davis. "There should have been 
an open and far-reaching debate on 
the crisis of the university and our 
vision for the 21st century. The under-
lying intellectual and scholarly issues 
should have been addressed." 


The restructuring report may 
soon provide a crucial test for the new 
faculty sentiment for self-governance. 
Members of the restructuring commit-
tee believe that their report is merely a 
recommendation to the administra-
tion and that faculty debate will play 
an essential part in the process. "The 
restructuring committee sees this as a 
report which the faculty is to com-
ment on," said Jaynes. "Our belief is 
that it is not set in stone." 


While Kagan and Turner have 
scheduled faculty meetings on the 
committee's proposals, both men 
believe that the Yale Corporation will 
almost certainly adopt the committee's 
report in full. "We are very unlikely to 
undertake a policy that is different 
than what is recommended by this 
committee," said Kagan. Turner, in an 
interview with the Yal~ Daily N~ws, 
made similar comments. With a facul-
ty debate scheduled for Febuary 13, 
the Yale community will know soon 
whether the university has begun to 
move toward the model of the 
Athenian assembly or that of its suc-
cessor, the oligarchy. 


I:.IJ 
Erik Murs, a junior in Branford 
Co/kg~. is managing ~ditor ofiNJ. 



**Title: Children of Eli**
**Author: Sonya Joo**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Children of Eli 
Sonya]oo 
Yale will admit "Yale sons of good 
character and 
reasonable good 
record ... regardless of the number of 
applicants and the superiority of out-
side competitors." 
-Yale Admissions Commi~~. 1929 
though Yale has opened its 
doors to a more diverse student 
ody since 1929, "legacies,"' 
those applicants whose parents attend-
ed Yale College or any Yale graduate or 
professional school, still receive special 
preference in admissions. For Yale and 
other Ivy League schools, the high rate 
of legacy admissions provides a way to 
recognize alumni and court their 
donations. Although the legacy policy 
comes from an earlier time, it contin-
ues to influence the composition of 
today's student body. 

Hopefuls who check the "Yale 
affiliation" box on their applications 
double their chances for acceptance. 
In choosing the class of 1995, the 
Admissions Committee rejected over 
three quarters of all applicants, for a 
general admit rate of 22 percent, but 
opened the doors to 45 percent of 
legacy candidates. 
The 
Yale 
Undergraduate 
Admissions Committee, like its 
counterparts at other Ivy 
League schools, classifies 
legacies, atheletes, and 
minorities as special 
preference groups. 
In the first round of 
the admissions pro-
cess, all candidates 
go through initial 
comparison on a 
regional 
basis. 
10 THE NEW jOURNAL 
Members of special preference groups 
who survive this test then go into a 
separate pool, in which they compete 
for admissions against each other. 
Most also receive an extra third read-
ing from the Admissions Committee. 
As a special preference group, 
legacies fare better than minori-
ty candidates often targeted as 
~ 
notes for the Admission Committee 
certain candidates whose parents' 
involvement in the school merits spe-
cial acknowledgement. These appli-
cants, termed "institutionally impor-
tant," can only benefit from such a 
label. 

the beneficiaries of extensive 
l''• _,_ .... 
Yale justifies admitting lega-
cies in high numbers because 
they are an investment that 
pays off. Last year, the Yale 
Alumni 
Fund garnered 
affirmative action programs. 
Like the 45 percent of legacy 
"'\ 
candidates, 39 percent of 
Mrican-American applicants, 36 
percent of Mexican-American 
applicants, 32 percent of Native 
American applicants, 28 percent of 
Puerto Rican applicants, and 20 per-
cent of Asian-American applicants 
received acceptance letters. Legacies 
also enroll at higher rates than other 
acceptees, comprising 15 percent of 
this year's freshman class. 
Dean 
of 
Admissions Margie Dahl acknowl-
edges the "positive weight" of Yale 
affiliation, although she claims that 
legacies must meet Yale's standards · 
order to receive admission. "If 
dent is a competitive candt~lCD:M\ ts 
or her own right, 
a legacy 
often tips -L~..-u..ro 
ce in his or 
said Dahl. 
For some legacy can-
didates, 
preferential 
treatment goes one 
step further. The list 
of legacy applicants 
goes to Terry M. 
Holcombe (SY '64), 
president of 
pment and 
~~f!i~~ i Affairs, who 
$55.4 million from over 
·48,000 alumni donors to sup-
port Yale's operating budget and 
financial aid programs. Larger gifts 
have boosted Yale's endowment to over 
$2.5 billion. In a special fund-raising 
program called Yale Revisited, Yale tar-
gets selected alums, often with chil-
dren, to reacquaint them with the 
University and ultimately to win a 
substantial donation. With contribu-
tions to the rune of$ 55 million, alum-
ni are the lifeline of private schools like 
Yale. 

ni give time as well as 
....,IITI,.v "The University depends on 
loyal alumni to volunteer their ser-
vices," said Holcombe. About 3,000 
alums spur Yale's fund raising drive by 
soliciting annual donations from class· 
mates. A nationwide network of about 
4,000 alums interviews local appli-
cants for the Admissions Office. 
Alums also defray administrative costs 
by serving as Yale Club officers and 
Association ofYale Alumni delegates. 
University officials also argue that 
the legacy statistic reflects the group's 
solid educational background. Dahl 
notes that many Yale alums place 2 
high priority on education and paSS


--- Page 11 ---

this value on to their children. "Well-
educated parents tend to give their 
children a good education," said Dahl. 
Most alumni hold jobs that draw them 
to metropolitan areas, where they can 
live in neighborhoods with strong 
standards and a work ethic in their 
children." Brett Mersereau (SM '95), 
a fifth-generation legacy, believes that 
academic excellence runs in his family. 
"It's pretty valid to assume that if the 
father or mother succeeded here, 
there's a very strong 
chance that their kids 
will also," he said. 
In 1925, Yale led the 
Ivy League in setting 
legacy preference as 
official policy. In order 
to restrict the number 
of Jewish students, who 
were enrolling at Yale 
in record numbers, the 
university ensured that 
sons of its graduates 
would have first crack 
at admission. Yet today, 
other 
Ivy 
League 
schools have far higher 
levels of legacy enroll-
ment. Dartmouth and 
the 
University 
Pennsylvania accepted 
57 percent and 66 per-
cent of legacy candi-
dates respectively for 
the class of 1994. And 
at Harvard, affiliation 
triples a prospective 
student's chances for 
admission. 

Statistics 
from 
Two gmvations ofYa/i~s taiigau at th~ Harvard ga11U. 
Harvard cast doubt on 
the explanation that all 
legacies 
earn their 
acceptance solely on 
the basis of merit. In 
the fall of 1990, the 
public school systems. Many also have 
the resources to send their children to 
private schools. 

Legacy students themselves credit 
~heir parents with teaching them the 
•mponance of achievement. "I resent 
~e fact that people think legacies are 
JUSt lucky," said Kirsten Greineder (PC 
'93), whose father attended Yale. 
"Well-educated parents instill high
FEBRUARY 7, 1992 
U.S. Department of Education's 
Office for Civil Rights (OCR) 
opened Harvard University's 
admissions files because they 
had received 
complaints 
about the school's admissions 
decisions. The OCR conclud-
ed that between 1981 and 1988, 
the average legacy student had less 
impressive test scores, grades, and 
extracurriculars than the average non-
legacy candidate, but it determined 
that no laws had been broken. 
AJ
cording to administrators, 
Yale legacies' qualifications also 
o not always match those of 
other applicants. In the April 1985 
issue of Th~ Nnu journaL, then Dean 
of Admissions Worth David said lega-
cies were "about as qualified" as their 
classmates, but conceded that some 
were not on par with other Yalies. 
According to a former member of the 
Minority 
Admissions 
Advisory 
Committee, scores and grades factor 
less heavily into legacy applications 
than they do into those of other appli-
cants. 

From a practical standpoint, high 
rates for legacy admissions serve the 
best interests of the university. When 
their children come to Yale, alums 
often feel a stronger link to the school. 
Their appreciation translates into 
donations of dollars and time. For a 
private university that depends on 
such resources to keep afloat, alumni 
carry a great deal of weight. Yet the 
legacy policy also sends a message that 
the university values tradition, ties, 
and money over a commitment to 
pure achievement. For the large num-
ber of non-legacy candidates whom 
Yale rejects, the consequences of leav-
ing the affiliations box blank on their 
application must leave a bitter taste. 

Sonya ]oo is a fr~shp~rson in Silliman 
Co/kg~. 
THB Nnr jouRNAL u


**Title: Paying Science Hill's Bill**
**Author: Julie Freedman**
**Page number(s): 12**

Paying Science Hill's Bill 
julie Freedman 
li
t spring, a federal auditor investi-
ating Stanford University won-
ered why the school included a 
19th century fruitwood commode, 
chauffeurs for the president's wife, and 
flowers for the presidential mansion on 
its bill for government-funded scientific 
research. His report exploded into a 
national scandal. In the weeks that fol-
lowed, the government accused the uni-
versity of overcharges amounting to more 
than $300 million over the last nine 
years, and Stanford president Donald 
Kennedy resigned in disgrace. 

In the wake of these disclosures, the 
House Subcommittee on Oversight and 
Investigations conducted an exhaustive 
search into the fate of the ll billion fed-
eral dollars granted annually to scientific 
research. The Department of Health and 
Human Services (HHS) audited 14 
research universities, including Yale, and 
found inappropriate charges at all of 
them. 

At Yale, auditors questioned the 
school's use of research funds for items 
such as part of the cost of the memorial 
service for Kingman Brewster and flow-
ers for the recipients of long-term service 
12 THE NEw j ouRNAL 
awards. But compared to Stanford, Yale 
"The federal law is written so that the full 
emerged nearly spotless. Some of the 
cost of research is recoverable," explained 
contested charges, such as a $56 bill for 
biology professor Robert Wyman. 
liquor at departmental gatherings for the 
"Everything on Science Hill is overhead, 
entire year, seemed petty. "In the past no 
including mowing the grass." 
one would have wasted time over this," 
Yale negotiates annually with HHS 
said 
Comptroller 
Leonard 
to determine what percent of research 
Wesolowski. "But after what happened 
funds the government will apply towards 
at Stanford, it was a whole new ball 
indirect costs. For the last four years, the 
game." 

The research money controversy 
hinges on "indirect costs," money that 
the federal government pays uruveJ'Sities 
to cover all the details that go into the 
cost of scientific research. Libraries, 
administrative salaries, utilities and cus-
todial services all fall under this heading. 
In reaction to the scandal at Stanford 
~ and the federal budget crisis, the govern-
~ ment wants to pare down the money it 
.l! allocates to indirect costs. The Office of 
~ Naval Research slashed Stanford's recov-
~ ery rate &om 78 to 55 percent, a net loss 
l ~!~~::~~5re:;:n~t:!Y-
versiry would lose more than $10 million 
a year. Since the current operating budget 
at Yale carries an $8.8 million deficit, such 
a forced reduction would more than dou-
ble the univei'Siry's budget woes. 

In the race for grant money, compe-
tition is fierce. According to Brown, the 
bleak climate in the scientific community 
imposes a stifling form of artificial 
selection upon researchers ... People are 
less likely to undertake risky proposals 
because they know they won't get 
funded," said Brown. "The current 
atmosphere selects for pedestrian, safe 
-;> 
projects, the sort of solid, short-term 
projects that get by reviewers, not the 
risky projects that might really be 
exciting." 



**Title: The Indirect Cost of Science**
**Author: Julie Madlener**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
From the perspective of individual 
scientists, a drive to lower indirect 
cost rates would make grant money 
easier to obtain. The more a grant costs, 
the harder it is to get. Unlike state 
schools, which can use tax dollars to 
defray some of their indirect costs, pri-
vate schools like Yale depend on funds 
from the federal government to finance 
their programs. '~t a private school with 
high rates, researchers are at a competi-
tive disadvantage to state schools where 
the rates are lower," said biology professor 
Charles Brown. "If the same amount of 
money is available and less goes to indi-
rect COSts, more research can be funded." 
Still, if the government reduced 
recovery rates Yale could no longer afford 
to provide its current level of services. 
"For my own research interests I'd like to 
favor lower rates," said physics professor 
Thomas Applequist. "But if I think insti-
tutionally, I share the concerns of the 
administration about the damage that a 
forced reduction would have." 
Donald Crothers, professor of 
chemistry and molecular biology and 
biophysics, believes that universities 
not only spend more to support 
research than they receive from the 
government but also have suffered 
unjustly in the aftermath of the scan-
dal. "Our research universities are 
under completely unwarranted 
attack," said Crothers. "My overall 
feeling is that the universities are 
underpaid for the cost of research. 
The disputed funds are somehow 
regarded as a tremendous expense 
when they support the finest research 
universities in the world." 
Unfortunately, scientists may be 
pinched between Yale's budget crisis 
and pressures to downsize from the 
federal government. For science at 
Yale to flourish, it needs both first-
class research and the resources to 
support it. While lower indirect rates 
could make it easier for individual 
scientists to obtain grants, the quality 
of life on Science Hill would suffer. 
With lower recovery rates, either ser-
vices will deteriorate or Yale will have 
to draw funds from other areas of the 
budget 
to 
maintain 
them. 
"Someone's got to cover the indirect 
costs of science," said Wyman. 
"Someone's got to mow the grass." ...
julie m~d1Nln, a sophomo" in Silli1Nln 
CJ/kg~. is on the stajfo.frNJ.


**Title: Tenure at Yale: Excellence or Politics?**
**Author: Jennifer Pitts**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

((yale's tenure system itself is cumbersome," said 
Sara Suleri, associate professor of English. "It 
would be impossible to say whether it works or 
not. Is it changing? I think .it's changing considerably and 
that is a matter of concern to us all." Yale's procedures for 
appointing senior professors have long withstood attack 
from students and faculty. Unlike tenure at bureaucratic 
state universities, Yale's system relies on unwritten rules and 
flexible regulations. The process remains open to abuse by 
departments and the administration alike. And lately, in 
addition to their perennial charges against Yale's tenure sys-
tem, many harbor fears that ideological agendas play an 
inordinate role in the allotment of Yale's precious perma-
nent seats. 
At most teaching colleges and large state universities, 
junior professors who publish and teach adequately can 
expect tenure within seven years. "It's an uneven system-
people may turn out not to be very productive or distin-
guished scholars," said Robert Dallek, a history professor at 
University of California, Los Angeles. "But only a small 
group of elite schools can afford not to use a tenure-track 
system." 
Yale is one of the lucky few. According to Yale's "ladder" 
system departments promote junior faculty only to the posi-
cion of associate professor without tenure. Faculty without 
tenure can teach at Yale for no more than ten years. In theo-
ry, the university does not promote its own professors to 
tenure but rather reviews Yale faculty along with outside 
candidates whenever a tenure slot appears. A department 
compiles a list of the best candidates in the country by solic-
iting letters from experts in the field; these lists often 
include tenured professors from top universities. "What 
Yale engages in is a star search," said Jeffrey Sammons, chair 
of German. "We're looking for. Leonardo da Vinci if we can 
find him." Between 1960 and 1980, only 14 percent of 
associate professors won permanent posts, and Yale recruit-
ed nearly half of its tenure appointments from outside the 
university. 
Undergraduates benefit from Yale's system, say profes-
sors, for it ensures a constantly changing pool of excellent 
teachers in addition to a star-studded permanent faculty. 
Junior professors face the greatest problems at the hands of 
the ladder system. Because they are not "tracked" for tenure, 
young professors must expect to move on after a decade, 
while Yale replaces them with a new crop of young teachers. 
Junior professors bear much of the burden of undergraduate 
teaching and often stint on their scholarship as a result, 
damaging their chances for tenure elsewhere. "People feel 
the pressure to teach as though they're in a small teaching 
college," said Mark Wollaeger, associate professor of 
English. "If it comes down to a crunch they'll prepare for 
class rather than write a page of their article." 
Much of the undergraduate uproar over junior profes-
sors' failure to win tenure may derive from inflated expecta-
tions. "Undergraduates are very generous," said John 
Morton Blum, professor emeritus of history. "Reading the 
course evaluations, you would believe that nearly every lec-
turer here is perfect." Because Yale depends on a large num-
ber of junior professors for teaching, however, the university 
boasts perhaps three qualified junior professors for every 
tenure slot that opens. "People here look with some envy at 
places like UCLA or Cornell, where the expectation is that 
the person will get tenure," said one professor. "We see that


system as more humane-the junior faculty aren't abused in 
the same way. But if Yale switched to a tenure-track system, 
it would probably be a loss for undergraduates." 
With the loss through attrition of perhaps 30 tenured 
seats after Yale's restructuring, the ratio of qualified junior 
faculty to available permanent posts could skyrocket. "The 
loss of positions might really destroy morale among junior 
faculty," said Diana Wylie, DUS of history. "It's hard when 
you know you're as good as the people who have tenure and 
there are just no spots." But many professors believe that 
Yale's ladder system-similar to those at most Ivy League 
schools-succeeds at retaining the best teachers and schol-
ars. "I think these institutions have a batting average of 
about . 700; that is, seven out of ten people they choose to 
tenure turn out to be the right choice," said Blum. "And I 
would say that nine-tenths of those allowed to leave were 
correctly judged." 
Ten years ago, so many professors distrusted Yale's 
tenure judgments that they demanded an overhaul 
of the process. Yale College Dean Howard Lamar 
established a committee chaired by economics professor 
James Tobin to investigate the situation. The Tobin report 
tried to standardize the tenure process so that appointments 
would no longer succumb to the unwritten rules of depart-
ment politics that had governed Yale procedures for so long. 
Professors disagree on whether the Tobin report succeeded 
in Its mission. "Before the report procedures were too 
loose," said Claude Palisca, chair of music. 'Mer the report, 
tenure became standardized and fair; in general the tenure 
procedures now work well." 
According to many, however, the process remains 
abstruse. "One of the problems is the murky relationship of 
the Tobin report to what's now done," said classics professor 
Victor Bers. The report made recommendations rather than 
hard-and-fast rules, and departments still can bypass steps 
in the process. Despite the report's plea that departments 
communicate regularly with nontenured faculty, junior pro-
fessors claim they rarely know how Yale's tenure system 
works. They never learn ctte official rules, they sar, and they 
sense that unofficial rules play a disproportionate role in the 
process. 
Tenure originally arose to protect professors' freedom of 
speech, but many at Yale fear that when Donald Kagan 
became dean ofYale College, ideology intruded on the pro-
cess to prevent worthy candidates from gaining the academ-
ic freedom of a tenured spot. The once unconcroversial



**Title: Yale Tenure Debate**
**Author: Jennifer Pitts**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
tenure committees lie at the heart of 
the current debate over Yale's system. 
The four committees-for biological 
sciences, humanities, physical sciences, 
and social sciences-review candidates 
for tenure. In the past they generally 
approved a department's proposal, 
deferring to the expertise of scholars in 
the field. 

Many professors claim ·that the 
composition and role of the tenure 
committees changed with Kagan's 
appointment. They charge that 
Kagan, who officially holds jurisdic-
tion over undergraduate affairs, wrest-
ed undue control over the university 
through the committees. The chair of 
the tenure committees-a position 
that Kagan alternates annually with 
graduate school dean Judith Rodin-
appoints the members of each group. 
Rodin chairs the committees this year, 
though many members remain from 
previous terms. "Any time a dean or a 
president can arbitrarily appoint a 
committee without any accountability 
to the faculty, then the dangers of 
autocracy are evident," said Suleri. In 
the past a relationship of trust between 
faculty and administration-what one 
professor called a "gentlemen's agree-
ment"-prevented such autocracy. 

Critics of the current process 
charge that the committees have over-
stepped their limits as they exercise 
their newfound power. "The commit-
tees should be there to watch out for 
procedural violations," said one pro-
fessor. "Competent departments 
should be left to make their own deci-
sions. 
If a 
department shows 
favoritism or is disintegrating into fac-
tions, then the committees can step 
in." But religious studies professor 
Wayne Meeks, who served on the 
humanities committee for eight years, 
believes the recent changes allow the 
committees to perform effectively. "I 
welcome the changes that were made 
the year before last," he said. "We were 
abdicating our responsibility to people 
who had written letters from else-
where, and the unwieldy set of rules 
made Yale so slow that we would lose 
appointments." 

In the eyes of many professors, 
however, the current administration 
has violated their trust. "When Kagan 
became dean, he saw potentials for 
getting control and did two extremely 
smart things," said David Rodowick, a 
film studies professor who left for the 
University of Rochester last year after 
·he was denied tenure at Yale. "H e 
stacked the senior appointments and 
the course of study committees with 
his allies." The once unremarkable 
humanities tenure committee sudden-
ly attracted attention from across the 
university as it overturned a number of 
departmental 
recommendations. 

"Where the senior appointments com-
mittee should have been attending to 
procedural questions, they were over-
riding the experts," said one professor. 
Others believe that people who 
charge the administration with an ide-
ological agenda are crying wolf. Diana 
Wylie sees no evidence for the allega-
tions and thinks Kagan has been 
unjustly accused. "Because of his con, 
servative 
rhetoric-
notoriously 
provocative and inappropriate for a 
dean-Donald Kagan has become a 
bete noir for people who are worried 
about losing their jobs," she said. 


Some professors attribute inconsisten-
cies in the appointment process to the 
inevitable department politics and 
interpersonal relations. "Ideology is 
certainly not the whole story-some-
times it's the least important factor," 
said Victor J3ers. "The problem is 
more complicated than a nasty right-
wing dean denying tenure to left-wing 
professors." 

But many point to a pattern in 
rejections that they find too powerful 
to be written off as paranoia. They cite 
the review of David Rodowick's candi-
dacy for tenure as an example of an 
ideological process and an activist 
senior appointments committee. Last 
year, the comparative literature and 
American studies departments lobbied 
the administration to fund a tenured 
seat in film studies. After a national 
search the departments sponsored 
Yale's David Rodowick as a candidate 
and unanimously approved the recom-
mendation. Respected in his field, 
Rodowick was a popular teacher and 
almost single-handedly shaped Yale's 
film studies program. "There was a 
fool-proof case for David, so much so 
that his friends didn't even worry," said 
Suleri. "Two books, excellent teacher, 
administrator, international reputation 
as a scholar-what more could he do?" 

The humanities appointments 
committee denied Rodowick tenure. 
The decision provoked such outrage 
among a number of senior professors 
that the committee scheduled an 
unorthodox second hearing, claiming 
to have discovered material they had 
overlooked the first time. They denied 
Rodowick tenure at the second hear-
ing as well. 

Many faculty members familiar 
with Rodowick's work argue that ideol-
ogy influenced his tenure procedure not 
because of Rodowick's political views, 
but rather because the administration 
saw his specialty, film studies, as unde-
sirable. "It was clearly a decision made 
as a judgment on film theory itself and 
not on the merits of Rodowick's work 
in film theory," French professor Peter 
Brooks told the magazine Lingua 
Franca. "I think the people on the com-
mittee didn't particularly know or 
appreciate his work." Rodowick himself 
agrees. "I think that the objective in 
turning down my position was to elimi-
nate film studies," he said. "I felt abso-
lutely nothing personal about the rejec-
tion." 

Because many members of the 
tenure committee were unfamil iar 
with Rodowick's specialty, some 
observers speculate that his case repre-
sents an aberration in the tenure pro-
cess. Others fear a trend toward tenure 
decisions motivated by factors other 
than academic excellence. "We can't 
really refer to a case like David 
Rodowick's without asking 'how can 
this be unideological?'" said Suleri. "I 
think his case is symptomatic, and that 
is the danger." Many see the new 
tenure committees as tantamount to 
an ideologically active Supreme Court. 
"If you have an activist senior appoint-
ments committee, people who aren't 
experts in the field decide who gets 
tenure," said Marshall. 

Critics of the tenure process say 
that Yale must establish a less cumber-
some system, and they demand a 
rerurn to less intrusive tenure commit-
tees. The university's decision to elimi-
nate dozens of tenured slots through 
attrition has added urgency to the 
debate-fierce competition for seats 
will ensure the entire faculty's scrutiny 
of every appointment. Tenure slots 
will become scarcer than ever, and 
junior professors will find it even hard-
er to climb Yale's ladder. In a time of 
budget cuts and job scarcity, some pro-
fessors worry that Yale will tenure only 
the intellectual "safe hers." "We have 
an economic emergency and a non-
tenure-track system at Yale," said Bees. 
"These decisions have to be made with 
the greatest care and consistency." 


**Title: Tough Times in the Ivory Tower**
**Author: Charlotte Brooks**
**Page number(s): 18**

"The student body is over-
whelmed by the budget 
cuts," complained Martha 
Brockenbrough '92. "There have been 
protests regarding what has been axed, 
and people see the administration as a 
monolithic beast that remains unre-
sponsive 
to 
their complaints." 

Although Brockenbrough's observa-
tions accurately characterize the events 
of Yale's 1991 faU semester, they actu-
ally refer to her own experience at 
Stanford University. Like Yale, most 
colleges throughout the United States 
currently face budget deficits because 
of the country's weak economy. As 
financial aid requests and general costs 
rise, gift and investment income has 
shrunk. 

Yale seems positively wealthy com-
pared with Stanford. "The provost 
recently released a campus report in 
which he explained that we have a $95 
million 'budget problem,"' explained 
Jake Veylupek, a Stanford senior who 
works at the Office of Public Affairs. 
"While some of this resulted from the 
1989 earthquake repair costs, much of 
it comes from previous deficits and the 
decreased rate and volume of govern-
ment research." Stanford's problems 
with the federal government began 
when a 1990 audit revealed that the 
university had defrauded the govern-
ment of 300 million federal 
research dollars (see story page 
12). As a result of the inspection, 
the Office of Naval Research can-
celled all of its agreements with 
the university. The loss of ONR 
revenues aggravated budget 
problems that had begun even 
before the 1989 Lorna Prieta 
earthquake forced building repair 
COSts sky-high. 

Normally, Stanford derives 
about 12 percent of its operat-
ing income from endowment 
funds, so the remaining 88 per-
cent must come from the same 
tuition, research, and unrestrict-
ed gift monies that have contracted in 
the recession. Even in a good year, the 
income derived from these sources 
would fail to remedy the acute 
budget deficit, so Stanford 
plans to cut programs and 
administrative costs and slow its 
building repairs. 

While Stanford's extreme sit-
uation makes it stand out 
among prestigious universities, 
schools that are relatively 
healthy in comparison-like 
the University of Chicago-also 
face significant budget prob-
lems. "We planned to have a 
shortfall of about $2.5 million, 
and we're right on target," said 
University 
of 
Chicago 
spokesperson Bill Murphy. "Still, we 
can't go on running a deficit forever, 
even if it's a planned one." After years 
of letting such small shortfalls accrue, 
many universities have found them-
selves forced to tighten their belts and 
cut budgets during the recession. 

The size of a school's actual 
deficit often helps to determine 
what will be trimmed back or 
completely cut to save money. 
Duke University faces cuts in 
every department. "We are look-
ing at coming up $2 million short, 
so we're spreading cuts across the 
board and asking the individual 
departments to absorb certain per-
centages," said Duke spokesperson 
David Robertson. "Still, we're not 
in anything like the dire situation 
facing other schools. For instance, 
no sections, TAs, or faculty will be 
cut." While considering possible 
department mergers and removals, 
Stanford also pledged not to cut 
any of its teachers.



**Title: University Budgets**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
While government and nature 
have devastated Stanford, Duke mere-
ly suffers from the recession. The uni-
versity's administration promises to 
keep an eye on the economy instead of 
taking action through cuts or layoffs. 
"The administration has tried to keep 
its axe away from the academic aspects 
of the universiry," said Duke sopho-
more Michael Saul. "While each 
department has had to accept certain 
minor fund reductions, it's difficult to 
remember that we're running a 
deficit." 

While at Yale restructuring has 
called into question the status of the 
Jaynes and Rodin Reports on affirma-
tive action hiring, both Duke and 
Stanford pledge to continue their 
attempts to encourage diversity 
through faculry and other hiring. But 
just as Yale's Restructuring Committee 
has singled out certain departments to 
bear the greatest burden in the current 
crunch, "prioritizing" has become the 
key word at most universities. "We've 
appointed a committee of faculty 
members and senior administra-
tors to look at our priorities," 
noted Murphy. "They will 
decide where U. Chicago will be 
going in the next few years." 

Stanford and Duke plan similar 
assessments. 

Yale repeatedly has evoked 
the specter of budget crisis, while 
other schools merely take out a 
second mortgage on the farm. 
"What's going on here is in some 
ways the opposite of Yale's poli-
cy, .. said Andrew Gross, a senior 
at the Universiry of Chicago. 
"Our administration has almost 
tried to hide our fiscal shortfall, 
hoping not to scare anyone. 
They try to give no indication of 
.. , 
a CrtSlS. 

H
arvard especially shies 
from any inquiry into 
its budget problems. 
"While the faculty of arts and 
sciences is running a $10 mil-
lion deficit, there are ways to 
control costs," said Harvard 
spokesperson Peter Costa. "No 
cuts are planned for the imme-
diate future. The administration 
will take care of the problem." 

Costa refused to explain how the 
"problem" could be resolved without 
curs. 

Some students speculate that 
H arvard hired Neil Rudenstine as a 
fund-raising president who could miti-
gate their budget crisis. "Many people 
think that when the Harvard higher-
ups were looking for a new president 
to replace Derek Bok, one of the 
weightiest factors in their decision was 
mw 
char this person would immediately 
have to lead a new billion-dollar fund-
raising campaign," explained Dante 
Ramos, a Harvard junior. "That's 
about all students have heard about 
the deficit, although we know it's 
there." 

Administrators at Yale and 
Stanford stand out in their determina-
tion to enact permanent budget reduc-
tions. Both believe that their universi-
ties cannot sustain their current sizes 
even in times of economic expansion. 
But whiJe Yale gears up for the debate 
on the restrucruring plan in February, 
life at Stanford has returned to normal 
after the protests of the fall. According 
to Brockenbrough, senior editor of 
the Stanford Daily, "It's very difficult 
to be unhappy at a place where the 
weather is beautiful and the people are 
all extremely attractive and intelli-
gent." 


**Title: SOM: Back to Business**
**Author: Katherine McCarron**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

I
n 1988, President Benno Schmidt and the Yale 
Corporation initated a top to bottom reorganization of 
Yale's School of Organization and Management. Since 
then, the school has endured attacks from disgruntled pro-
fessors, jilted alumni, and disenchanted students. SCM's 
Business ~ek ranking dropped from 19th to 26th in 1989, 
prospective recruiters shied away, and alumni giving plum-
meted from 70 percent participation to 10 percent in one 
year. 

The furor began in 1988, when Schmidt approved a 
dramatic shift in SCM's emphasis from a participatory, 
humanistic approach to management to a more traditional, 
"numbers-oriented" philosophy. Schmidt appointed recent-
ly arrived professor Michael Levine {LAW '65) as Dean of 
SOM and gave him cane blanche to institute sweeping 
changes at the school. Professor David Berg recalls Provost 
Frank Turner's remark, "We are trying to make SOM a 
ccwe see the value in history, but we 
want to look ahead. n 
more traditional business school." 

When Levine took office, Schmidt granted him "emer-
gency powers" and suspended the voting rights of tenured 
faculry on curriculum issues "indefinitely," a period of time 
that lasted for nine months. During this time, the Yale 
Corporation and Schmidt authorized Levine to dismantle 
20 THE NEW jOURNAL 
the Organizational Behavior depanment and move the 
Operations Research department to the graduate school. 

Operations Research (OR) and Organizational 
Behavior (OB) existed at Yale before President IGngman 
Brewster founded SOM in 1976. The two departments 
greatly influenced the management school's curriculum. 
OB became the most popular discipline, frequently over-
shadowing other areas such as finance. A survey conducted 
in 1989 reported that 70 percent of SOM alumni ranked 
OB as the most valuable aspect of the school. 

The new administration felt that the focus on OB was 
taking SOM in the wrong direction. Before the changes, 
OB focused on a distinctly experiential approach to man-
agement. "A disproportionate number of faculty members 
in the school belonged to OB and OR," said Richard 
Silverman, dean of admissions. "It didn't make sense given 
all the other interests that we had as a school and a faculry. 
It was like the tail wagging the dog." 

Some faculty members complained that a narrow focus 
and infighting prevented OB from communicating with 
other departments. According to Berg, the administration 
said, "All future OB appointments need to be able to have 
conversations with economists, in economic terms, and 
with a small faculty it is important to have a common lan-
guage." Using his emergency powers, Levine decided not to 
renew the contracts of any junior faculty in the 
Organizational Behavior department. 

In a second sweeping move, the new administration 
decided to move Operations Research out of SOM and 


--- Page 21 ---

establish it as a department in the graduate school. Many 
administrators believed the discipline addressed business 
issues from an academic rather than a managerial perspec-
tive. According to Levine, "The people who moved to the 
graduate school tended to be constructing logarithms or 
other problems that had evolved into a branch of applied 
mathematics." The OR department will be completely 
phased out in the next few years if the Yale Corporation 
adopts the recommendations from the committee on 
restructuring. 

Continuing the effort to transform SOM, Levine 
assembled a core curriculum of classes in the first year. The 
core gives all students a common foundation in disciplines 
including accounting, finance, and marketing. "The first 
year is a kind of tool kit, a skill-building year," said 
Silverman. "In the second year applications are emphasized, 
through the use of cases and pragmatic uses of subjects you 
learn in the first year." 

Levine sees the core as an attempt to improve the mar-
ket value of SOM graduates. "A graduate of this school 
needs to be able to do the things the graduate of a tradition-
al business school does, because the market that hires them 
expects that of them," said Levine. Under the old program, 
students could graduate without basic business skills. "The 
old curriculum was very flexible," Levine said. "By stepping 
on stones, you could make it through the stream without 
getting your feet wet" in finance and accounting. "We make 
sure now that everybody has to do some wading." 

SOM alumni feel that the changes were a slap in the 
face. They resented Levine for not consulting them during 
the reorganization. The adminstration's dismantling of the 
OB department changed the face of the school. Alumni 
donations and participation in recruiting dwindled to a 
fraction of their previous levels. 

According to the SOM alumni president, Stewart 
Halpern (TO '78, SOM '82), Levine acts as though it is up 
to the alumni to decide if they want to rejoin the fold. "He 
hasn't done much to get alums back on board. He thinks, 'it 
is nor my problem,'" Halpern said. "People tell me that 
when they get mail from the school they just throw it away. 
No one did anything to reach out, and they were angry-so 
they said 'to hell with them.'" 


**MAGNIFICENT "MUFFINS"**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22**

**SOM's Shifting Sands**
**Author: Katherine McCarron**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

Some students believe that 
President Schmidt has written off the 
SOM alumni who graduated before 
1988. In private meetings with some 
SOM students he has said that he 
plans to build a new alumni base with 
students admitted after SOM's restruc-
turing. For second-year students anx-
ious to find a job, cutting ties with 
SOM alums can hinder employment 
opportunities. "Building a new alumni 
base is very damaging," said John 
Boulet (SOM '92). "If you go to apply 
for a job with an alum who went to 
the school before the changes, they 
will tell you it is not the same school 
anymore." 


In order to rebuild the alumni 
network with people who graduated 
after the changes, SOM enlarged the 
school from 160 per class in 1988 to 
2 17 in 1992. "We have set a very 
ambitious task for ourselves," said 
Levine. "If you have a small student 
body, it is hard to teach courses in pol-
itics and accounting and interdiscipli-
nary courses too. You need more folks." 


According to the administration, 
SOM has managed to enlarge the size 
of the school without diminishing the 
quality of the students it accepts. 
Levine cited GMAT scores in the 95th 
percentile. 


Since his appointment as dean in 1988, Michael Levine has instituted sweeping changes at SOM. 
e changes in the SOM student 
body have progressed more grad-
ually than those in the curricu-
lum. Over the years, the number of 
women enrolled has steadily declined 
while the numbec of foreign students has 
increased (see graph). The number of 
women at SOM peaked in the mid-
1980s at 51 percent and has dropped off 
dramatically since then. Following the 
example of schools like Wharton and 
Harvard, SOM has recruited interna-
tional Students, especially Asians, to dou-
ble their enrollment since the mid-80s. 


The classes of 1992 and 1993 
express the flux of opinion surround-
ing the changes at SOM. Those who 
expected a participatory manage-
F£BRUAJt.Y 7· I99Z 
ment school feel disappointed in 
SOM's shift in emphasis and their 
lack of voice in administrative deci-
sions. "There are lots of ad hoc com-
munication channels, but not a more 
formal way for students to express 
their concerns," said Adam Feerst 
(SOM '93). 


c7 wanted to shake aU 
these people and say 'youre 
not in business school m
For the most part, the admis-
sions office has caught up with the 
administration's shift in philosophy. 
Most current students knew what to 
expect when they applied and are 
more oriented towards SOM's new 
approach to teaching traditional 
business classes. "There was some 
misunderstanding of what we were 
trying to do here and what was going 
on," Levine said. "People who come 
to the school now are attracted by 
what we are and have a pretty clear 
understanding of what we are doing." 


Most SOM students want to leave 
the controversy behind them and maxi-
mize their experience at Yale. "The vast 
majority are extremely happy," said 
Sean McCaffrey (SOM '92). "We see 
the value in history but we want to look 
ahead. We want to get the most we can 
out of the courses and professors." 


Some still long for a creative 
management school. 
Elizabeth 
Thompson (SOM '93) recalls that 
on the first day of class her professor, 
new from Wharton, responded to a 
request to study non-profit cases by 
asking, "Why would we want to do 
that?" Thompson sees herself as one 
of the last of a dying breed. "Many 
first-year students don't think the 
changes are a bad thing. I know a lot 
of students who came to business 
school," said Thompson. "I wanted 
to shake all these people and say 
'you're not in business school.' " 


When Kingman Brewster founded 
SOM, he intended to create a unique 
management school that would encour-
age its graduates to go out and change 
the world. Many of the students at 
SOM hold on to this vision. There are 
others, however, who believe that the 
changes instituted by the new adminis-
tration have set SOM on the path to 
conformity rather than innovation. "A 
unique place like SOM doesn't come 
along 
very often," 
said 
Berg. 
"Personally, I feel that another tradi-
tional business school is the last thing 
this world needs." 



Katherine McCarron, a senior in 
Calhoun Colkge, is managing editor of 
TN]


**Forestry: A New Leaf**
**Author: Diana Montgomery**
**Page number(s): 24**

In 1900, just before Teddy Roosevelt made conserva-
tion a national priority, Gifford Pinchot's family endowed 
the Yale Forest School. Pinchot (Yale 1889) was the first 
Chief Forester of the United States. The school originally 
trained professionals to work in the timber industry and in. 
the administration of federal and state forests. It also pro-
pounded a conservation ethic that Pinchot defined as "the 
wise use of the earth for the good of present and future gen-
erations." In the beginning, the curriculum focused solely 
on trees and how they grow. "Forestry is the management 
of forests for production of wood, water, wildlife, and recre-
ational benefits," Smith explained. 


As the environmental movement evolved, so did the 
Forestry School. By the 50s the school focused on long-term 
forest management. When students became increasingly 
interested in environmental management in the 60s and 70s, 
the school added Environmental Studies to its name and 
introduced the master's degree in that field to Yale. 


Throughout its history the school's emphasis on an 
interdisciplinary approach to the ecosystem as a whole has 
set it apart from programs at other universities. Students 
examine the interactions among various parts of the ecosys-
tem, like forest and marine systems, and between different 
academic disciplines, such as biology and economics. Anne 
Black (FOR '92) chose Yale because "the other schools 1 
"The interdisciplinary approach 
is the intellectual underpinning 
of the school " 
looked at fundamentally didn't understand how the envi-
ronment works as a system." Graduates of the ForestrY 
School apply their interdisciplinary training to jobs in gov-
ernment agencies, watchdog groups, academic institutions, 
and industry. 


at a meeting of the North American Forestry 
Commission of the United Nations in the 1970s, 
he delegates sang the national anthems of each of 
the countries represented. When it came to the United 
States, Yale graduates so dominated the delegation that they 
sang the Whiffenpoof song rather than the "Star Spangled 
Banner." "There is no doubt that the school is a leader," 
said Forestry Dean John Gordon. "For the most part stu-
dents have chosen us over Duke and Michigan, our tradi-
tional competitors." 


As concern for the environment takes center stage on 
the international agenda, Yale's expertise in the field could 
prove more valuable than ever. "Environmental issues have 
become increasingly important in certain sectors-espe-
cially government agencies, non-government organizations 
and industry," said professor Steve Kellen. "Now the aca-
demic sector has to grow. There is a need for the Forestry 
School because academics can mediate between the other 
sectors." 


The increasing demand for environmental professionals 
means that the school cannot rest on its laurels. When 
Dean Gordon steps down in May after a ten-year tenure to 
concentrate on research and teaching, he will leave the 
school in transition. While applications to programs in 
forestry and environmental studies at other institutions 
have dropped, applications to Yale have risen from 132 to 
375 since 1986. Class size has grown from 54 to 98. And in 
the same period, the school has lost six senior faculty mem-
bers: four retired and two became deans at other institu-
tions. 


The changes are not limited to Yale-the environmen-
tal field as a whole has expanded and grown more complex. 
"A degree in environmental studies can be too general to 
open doors," said Jackie Prince, (PC '84, SOM and FOR 
'88). "In the past five years, there has been a trend in the 
job market that calls for people with expertise in a particular 
area." The school has always prided itself on its interdisci-
plinary nature and close-knit atmosphere. But in an era of 
environmental crises, the school must adapt to both 
changes in environmentalism and its own growth. 



**Title: The Forestry School at Yale**
**Author: Diana Montgomery**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Twenty percent of the students come from foreign coun-
tries. "Even among the Americans there is a lot of imerna-
tional experience--the Peace Corps, non-government orga-
nizations," said Black. "The diversity allows much more in-
depth discussion of what's happening elsewhere in the 
world." The Tropical Resources Institute (TRI), which the 
Forestry School established in 1983 to allow students to 
focus on the management of tropical resources, reflects the 
school's growing interest in international environmental 
issues. TRI offers courses that explore tropical issues and 
provides internships and research projects in the field. 
The school also has turned irs attention to industrial 
environmental issues. Environmentalists can help compa-
nies reduce costs as they meet stricter government regula-
tions and the growing consumer demand for environmen-
tally safer products. Some specialises hope ro change harm-
ful industrial practices such as pollution and deforestation 
by working within the industrial system. The school 
recently developed the Industrial Environmental 
Management Program to equip its students for the rask and 
to bring businesspeople to the school for short courses in 
environmental management. 


W:
ile these programs allow students co focus rheir 
rudies on a particular issue or concentration, 
rudencs remain fairly free to design their own 
programs of study. The school offers three master's degrees: 
in Forestry, Forest Science, and Environmental Studies. 
Most students pursue the most general of these, the degree 
in Environmental Studies. Many now obtain joint degrees 
with another Yale graduate school, especially the School of 
Organization and Management. 


With so much flexibility, students run the risk of grad-
uating without any area of expertise. "The level of sophisti-
cation is increasing in environmental jobs so rhat well-
developed skills in areas such as engineering, economics, 
and science are becoming more valuable than a general 
degree," said Prince. Responding ro studem demand for 
gt'cater specialization, the school began to offer formal con-
centrations a few years ago. Now students may choose to


concentrate in conservation biology or 
water resources policy, or they may 
design their own concentration, such 
as international development and con-
servation. 


Some students fear that specializa-
tion will restrict the curriculum or nar-
row the disciplines at the school. "It's 
fine if someone wants to come in and 
elect to specialize, but if everyone was 
forced to do that it would do the 
school great harm," said Warren Byrne 
(FOR '92). "It's true that a special 
concentration looks good on a resume, 
but when it comes down to the work 
being done, an understanding of the 
environment as a whole and the rami-
fications for policy formation are 
essential. The great thing about Yale is 
that people are able to come here and 
be generalists." 


Administrators want to preserve 
the school's interdisciplinary nature as 
well. "The school is resisting depart-
mentalization," said assistant dean 
Gordon Geballe. "The interdisci-
plinary approach is the intellectual 
underpinning 
of 
the 
school. 
Unfortunately, this means that the 
school cannot be sufficiently deep in 
every area." Born to train foresters, 
the school maintains its commitment 
to terrestrial studies. For example, only 
one professor teaches water resources. 


w;
ile no graduate program 
an 
achieve 
sufficient 
epth in every department, 
some reorganization might cure the 
Forestry School's other headaches. 
The faculty crunch and burgeoning 
student body, along with a disintegrat-
ing physical plant, have provoked 
grumbles from students and professors 
alike. Students complain about poor 
faculty-student contact, competition 
among students, and inadequate phys-
ical space. "Professors are making a 
serious effort to make the numbers 
work-that includes limiting partici-
pation in certain classes, a move stu-
dents grudgingly accept," said Black. 


"Still, there's a lot of frustration with 
the pace at which faculty positions are 
being filled. The searches may be 
going as fast as possible, but it's still 
slow." 


Students and faculty hope that the 
choice of a new dean will solve the 
space problems and bring new life and 
direction to the school. 


"Long-range 
plans are on hold and waiting for the 
new dean," Black said. 


Undoubtedly, long-range plans 
will have to address the school's grow-
ing pains and developments within the 
environmental field. "The greatest 
challenge facing the school is how to 
grow with the increased interest in 
environmental issues without losing its 
cohesiveness and its abiliry to provide 
specific areas of study," said Leslee 
Sheeline (FOR '91). If it can build on 
its past successes and retain its ability 
to change with the times, the school 
will prove equal to the task. 


I8J 


**Title: Philosophy: An Existential Crisis**
**Author: Sara Heitler**
**Page number(s): 27**

From the philosophy department offices at the top of 
SSS, Yale's towers look stable and majestic. But just as 
the disintegration ofYale's buildings demands the 
university's attention, the philosophy department desperate-
ly needs an overhaul. "It's a time of suspense in the philoso-
phy department," said Patricia Blanchette, assistant profes-
sor of philosophy, who arrived at Yale last year. "Changes 
will occur, but it's not clear what form those changes will 
take." The department's greatest failing, its inability to 
retain a solid core of senior professors, has repercussions for 
everyone associated with philosophy at Yale. 


For graduate students, the departmental crisis has 
reached a boiling point. Of the department's four tenured 
professors, the only one teaching this semescer, Ruth 
Marcus, will retire in May. Because of the lack of senior fac-
ulty members, Yale decided to suspend graduace admissions 
for 1992. "Right now, we cannot offer secure training at che 
graduate level," conceded professor Allan Wagner, the 
department's interim chair. For the 31 graduate students 
already here, few senior professors means a dearth of advi-
sors and graduate-only courses. "If we let new grad students 
in, it would be under false pretenses," said David Schmidtt, 
director of undergraduace studies. 


Compared to the flourishing department of the 1960s, 
Yale's current philosophy department offers a sparse crop of 
courses. Experts once ranked Yale among Berkeley, 
Princecon, and the University of Pinsburgh as che finest phi-
losophy departments in che country. Yale had leaders in both 
analytic and continental philosophy, then the two major 
schools of thought. "Yale's suongest point was chat ic had 
representatives from more Wescern schools of philosophy 
than any other major university," said one junior professor. 


Departmental decline began when senior professors 
buned heads over tenure appointments. Alchough the press 
trumpeted "philosophical differences" as the reason for dis-
agreement, department insiders counter chat personality 
conflicts fueled the scruggle. As che tempesc raged, profes-
SOrs--including Harry Frankfurt and Sarah Broadie--fled 
the department. Yale's stringent tenure policy conrribuced 
to the high anrition rate-no junior faculty member has 
received and accepted tenure in philosophy ac Yale for over 


20 years. As other universities lured away Yale's biggest 
names with plum appointments, the department began to 
unravel. 


In 1990, the administration intervened to mend the 
damage. Provost Frank Turner asked Wagner, then psychol-
ogy department chair, to ace as interim chair of philosophy. 
"I have no technical expertise in the area of philosophy," 
said Wagner. "But I was persuaded that I could help to 



**Yale Philosophy Department Faces Challenges**
**Author: Sara Hatin**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
rebuild the department." 

Lase semester, the administration 
began an attempt to restore the depart-
ment's prestige. In one grand gesture, it 
tried to recruit five nationally acclaimed 
professors from top universities. The 
list, compiled by a panel of 100 
philosophers from around the country, 
included Peter Rail ton and Adam Coke 
from Michigan, Barry Stroud and Sam 
Scheffler from Berkeley, and Scott 
Soames from Princeton. 

The move has sparked mixed reac-
tions from faculty and students. 
Because the group includes only ana-
lytic philosophers, some students com-
plain that their appointment would 
make the department lopsided. "The 
administration has neglected the dis-
tinguishing trend of Yale's philosophy 
department: that it represents a variety 
of viewpoints," said one philosophy 
major. 

Most professors and students sup-
port the administration's attempts to 
restore the department but criticize the 
snail-like pace of its efforts. Although 
Yale has sene out feelers to its recruits, 
none has received final offers. "The 
administration is moving much too 
slowly in the right direction," said 
Blanchette. In the meantime, the 
administration risks losing its recruits. 
According to Wagner, Yale's success in 
wooing the recruits hinges on its 
promise to each that several of the oth-
ers will accept as well. Already one 
professor has declined Yale's offer. 

While big-name tenured profes-
sors may elude Yale's grasp, the depart-
ment has successfully attracted top-
notch junior faculry. This year, five 
new assistant professors, elected from a 
pool of over 100 applicants, joined the 
philosophy 
department: 
Lisa 
Downing, Michael Della Rocca, lrad 
Kimhi, Gyula Klima, and Paolo 
Mancosu. They hail from the nation's 
best programs at Harvard, Stanford, 
Berkeley, Pittsburgh, and Princeton. 
"The junior faculty are not just bright 
and engaged but also philosophically 
28 TKE New JouRNAL 
diverse and broadminded," said one 
professor. "A group like that could 
really promote philosophy at Yale." 

J
unior faculty cite light teaching 
loads, good research conditions, 
and stellar undergraduates as Yale's 
greatest strengths. So far, departmental 
unrest has not kept people away. 
"People are still coming, t<> the sur-
prise of some," said assistant professor 
Randall Havas. But to junior faculty 
who have worked at Yale for a few 
years, the problems loom large. "No 
one is going to take the first bus out of 
town," said Havas. "But they might 
take the first bus to a decent alterna-
. , 
tlve. 

Because of Yale's highly selective 
tenure process, junior professors know 
that their days here are probably num-
bered. "We're here for a good time, not 
for a long time," said Schmidtz. To 
philosophy professors, the university's 
reluctance to tenure junior faculty and 
its insistence on published work seems 
particularly unfair. Because of the 
nature of the discipline, few philoso-
phers publish substantial work until 
their later years. Yale, however, looks 
especially hard at a candidate's first 
book before it awards tenure. "None 
of the great philosophers, past or pre-
sent, would be considered for tenure 
FEBRUARY 7• I99l 


According to Yale's current policy," said 
one junior faculty member. 

Despite the instability and tenure 
disputes, some undergraduates still have 
words of praise for their department. 
'Tm more chan satisfied with the 
major," says Quin Smith (DC '93). 
Undergradua-tes laud the department 
for its small seminar sizes, the high qual-
ity of visiting and junior faculty, and its 
accessible DUS. "It's easy to gee into 
seminars, which means chat you can 
make good, close concaccs with profes-
sors," said jeremy Fields (DC '93). 

Still, undergraduates charge chat 
the lack of continuity shortchanges 
their philosophy education. Although 
the blue book lists 46 philosophy 
courses, their subject matter does not 
always cover a broad range of top-
ics. "Courses appear for one term, 
never to appear again," said Isaac 
Wheeler (CC '93). "There's no natural 
follow-up, and no core of courses that 
are always taught." Majors cite a 
-
paucity of course offerings in Eastern, 
African, feminist, and Medieval phil-
osophy. 

Philosophy students also sense 
departmental discord, and some feel 
caught in the cross fire. "When you go 
co professors, much of their talk seems 
to center around the plight of the 
department," said one student. "The 
department's deterioration has eaten 
away at the philosophical spirit of the 
faculty and students." 

Until Yale either attracts outside 
professors or awards tenure to some of 
its junior faculty, the department wiJI 
remain in limbo. "We're all disap-
pointed in some respects," said 
Wagner. "The rebuilding is a difficult 
process. We would like it to be quick 
and easy, but it takes hard work and 
time to rebuild a department." 

In the meantime, philosophy stu-
dents take what they can from the 
department. "I'll certainly be able to 
graduate with a decem degree in phi-
losophy," said Wheeler. " But I'm 
jumping off a sinking ship." 

Sara H~itln is a finhp~on in Pi~on 
:J Colkg~. 
THE NEW jotaNAL 29 



**Cooperative Security**
**Author: Kathy Reich**
**Page number(s): 30**

M
ost of the students who rent 
houses on Mansfield Street, 
a quiet, tree-lined avenue 
that runs opposite Ingalls Rink, chose 
the area because of its roomy old hous-
es and its residential feel. "It's a little 
bit off the main drag," explained resi-
dent Jason Barbeau (TO '92). 

"Walking or biking up the street dur-
ing the daytime, it's just like you're liv-
ing in a 
neighborhood." 

Last 
September, however, Barbeau realized 
that his street wasn't as idyllic as he'd 
thought. After five guests left a party at 
his house, two men robbed them at 
knifepoint on Mansfield. 

The multiple mugging was only 
one of a series of robberies that 
plagued 
Mansfield 
throughout 
September. By mid-semester, students 
who rented houses there referred to 
their neighborhood half-jokingly as 
"Manslaughter Street." "It was dis-
tinctly scary," recalled resident Perry 
de Valpine OE '93). 

Fear lingers among Mansfield resi-
dents, but crime itself has declined sig-
nificantly around the area in recent 
months, thanks to the efforts of both 
the Yale and New Haven Police 
Departments. Not only did each 
department take new measures to pre-
vent crime on Mansfield, but in a 
promising step towards town-gown 
cooperation, the two departments 
have formed a joint task force to fight 
crime in and around Yale. These mea-
sures, 
combined with security 
improvements that the Yale Secretary's 
office has ordered, seek to make Yale 
an island of safety in a turbulent urban 
sea. "Crime is up everywhere in urban 
)0 THE NEW jOURNAL 
environments," said Marci Sternheim, 
assistant secretary of the university. 
"Crime is down on the Yale campus, 
however. This is a much more secure 
place than people would lead you to 
believe." 

Yale not only has tightened secu-
rity for its on-campus students bur 
has intensified joint efforts with New 
Haven to ensure the safety of those 
who live off-campus. Mansfield Street 
proved an excellent setting for an 
exercise in cooperation, since it falls 
under the jurisdictions of both the 
Yale and New Haven police. Yale 
owns several houses on Mansfield, 
and Yale Police responds to calls at all 
buildings the university owns and 
manages. "If the house is owned by 
Yale but managed by someone else, 
the calls are handled by the New 
Haven Police," said Yale Police 
Commander James Perrotti. "But we 
listen to New Haven dispatch calls, 
"Crime is down on 
the Yale campus. 
This is a much more 
secure place than 
people would lead 
you to believe. , 
and if there's a robbery on the street 
they'll call Yale police and we'll 
respond together. Obviously we don't 
just cover what belongs to Yale." 

The Yale and New Haven police 
departments formed a joint task force 
to cut down on crime around Yale on 
September 26, at the height of 
Mansfield's mini-crime wave. For rwo 
weeks, teams from each department 
patrolled the area &om Mansfield an4 
Sachem streets to Wall and High 
streets. Tense Mansfield residents felt 
reassured by the undercover vehicle 
that conspicuously cruised their street. 
"We felt very safe," recalled de 
Valpine. But in early October, when 
police nabbed a man suspected of sev-
eral robberies around the Yale campus, 
the force disbanded. 

According to Dean Esserman, 
assistant chief of the New Haven 
Police Department, such temporary 
Yale-New Haven police collaborations 
have long been common practice. 
"When problems occurred, the forces 
came together on an incident-by-inci-
dent basis, staging joint stakeouts until 
we caught the guy," he said. In early 
October, just as the temporary task 
force finished up its work, Yale and 
New Haven took steps to make their 
cooperation both more formal and 
more regular. The two departments 
formed a permanent task force to syn-
chronize law enforcement efforts 
around 
Yale 
and 
downtown. 
"Basically, we said, 'Look, we're polic-
ing the same area; let's get together and 
talk about it,'" said Esserman. The 
departments now share the same radio 
frequency, so that each hears the 
other's calls as a matter of course. "The 
feedback I've been getting is that coop-
eration has never been better," said 
Esserman. 
FEBRUARY 7· 1991 



**Title: Mansfield Security**
**Author: Kathy Rich**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Yale Police force has beefed 
up its own security efforts on 
Mansfield as well. And despite budget 
cuts throughout the university, the 
department plans to add six new offi-
cers by 1992, making the force an 
unprecedented 66 members strong. 
"The university is really moving ahead 
on police and security," said Perrotti. 
"They're not cutting back at all." 
The Secretary's office also has put 
money where its mouth is on security 
issues. In addition to the highly publi-
cized card-key access system in 
Old Campus, security improve-
ments include more lighting 
throughout campus and extend-
ed hours for the late-night stu-
dent escort service and the 
minibus. While the escon service 
only serves the central campus 
after 12:30 a.m., Mansfield resi-
dents can now take the minibus 
home until 7:30 a.m. Off-cam-
'92), who has lived on Mansfield for 
two years. She complained of long 
waits late at night for the shuttle ser-
vice. And de Valpine pointed out that 
while Mansfield is the first stop for 
shuttles coming from campus, if stu-
dents wish to take the shuttle to cam-
pus they must endure a ride through 
the outskirts of Yale that can fre-
quently last over an hour. "It's possi-
ble to be absolutely as safe off-campus 
as on-campus," he said. "But it's a real 
pain." 


pus students routinely complain 
about the lack of a late-night 
escort service to their neighbor-
hoods, but Sternheim calls the 
minibus a safer, more popular 
mode of transportation, especial-
ly for men. "Men typically don't 
take the escort service; they're 
more likely to take the minibus," she 
said. "I would like to make sure that 
men are using some form of security. 
Statistics show that men are greater 
victims of street crime because they're 
more likely to be walking alone." 

Students on Mansfield appreciate 
Yale's security efforts but remain dis-
satisfied. "The campus should be more 
supportive," said Shala Erlich (TC 
Some residents charge that as 
crime has dropped on Mansfield, so 
has police presence. Although the Yale 
police station stands jusr around the 
corner, students say they never see 
uniformed cops from Yale or New 
Haven patrolling the area on foot. "I 
think it would be good to have some-
one walking the beat around here," 
said Barbeau. "This is definitely a 
sub-unit of campus now, with so 
many undergrads and graduate stu-
dents living here. It bugs me that I 
still have to think twice or three times 
about going out after dark." 

But the risks of living on 
Mansfield have decreased dramatical-
ly since September. The new empha-
sis on cooperative crime-fighting has 
cut down on robberies and helped 
transform the area into a safer place to 
live. Mansfield residents remain 
determined to stay on the street, cit-
ing its proximity to campus, its com-
fortable houses, and its residential 
atmosphere. "I'm really h.appy here, 
and if I had to do it over again I 
would definitely live here," de Val pine 
said. "We just don't walk at night." 


**Title: Uneasy Alliance**
**Author: Joel Tesoro**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

T
raditionally, Yale and New Haven have quarreled 
rather than cooperated. Yet both the city and the 
university insist that tough times have forced them 
to forge a new partnership stronger than any in Yale's histo-
ry. As joint development projects between town and gown 
proliferate, however, New Haven demands more. Yale's hes-
itancy to commit its resources to the city irks community 
leaders. "In order to save neighborhoods at risk, you've got 
to risk something yourself," said Peter Gray, president of the 
Dixwell Community Development Corporation. Although 
Yale and New Haven have discovered similar aspirations of 
security and stability, they have yet to build a working rela-
tionship. 

Yale views its involvement in New Haven as secondary 
to its educational mission. Concerned with training minds 
to recognize general truths, the university rarely p10vides 
uYale just plunked this building down 
and damned be the neighborhood " 
practical solutions for the social and economic problems 
New Haven faces. Pursuing Yale's academic enterprise also 
necessitates financial caution. "One of the investment com-
mittee's duties is essentially not to waste the assets of the 
Corporation," said Susan Godshall, assistant secretary of the 
university. "We're looking for investments-we're not a 
cha.ritable institution. We need to ensure that we will have 
the funds to go on teaching." 

Some community leaders feel that Yale's concern with 
its financial stability overrides its consideration for the city's 
welfare. The university made investments at regular market 
rates in its joint development projects with New Haven. "In 
essence, Yale's commitment to invest in New Haven is a 
commitment to do what it does anywhere else-make 
money," said James Farnam (TC '73), a partner at the New 
Haven-based consulting firm Holt, Wexler and Merchant. 

A little-known component of the 1990 Yale-New 
Haven agreement, however, seeks to put the university's 
intellectual and financial capital to New Haven's direct ben-
efit. Over the next five years, Yale will contribute a total of 
p. THI! Nsw JouRNAL 
$250,000 to help establish a Center for the City. Drawing 
on the faculty and staff of Yale, City Hall, and other univer-
sities in the area, the Center aims to study problems of 
poverty, education, and developmem in New Haven. The 
Center not only will propose solutions but also will help 
raise funds to turn proposals imo active programs. 

But the Center remains in its planning stages. In the 
meantime, policy makers have suggested that Yale help 
boost the city economy by purchasing more goods and sup-
plies from local merchants. At present, Yale buys less than 
10 percent of its goods from New Haven suppliers. 

According to Godshall, the sheer volume of Yale's needs 
rnakes purchasing in New Haven impractical. Yale 
University Dining Halls, for example, buys more orange 
juice than all the wholesalers in New Haven combined. The 
university spends nearly $1.5 million a year co buy 36,000 
F£BRUAR.Y 7. 1992 
~ cases of orange juice from Minute Maid. "I don't know how 
!:: 
~ New Haven wholesalers can give us goods at prices cheaper 
~ than the manufacturers themselves," Godshall said. 

~ 
Administrators argue that Yale's considerable non-
E: financial contributions to New Haven go largely unnoticed. 
~ "We don't publish a big, thick, glossy report saying 'My, 
~ look at all the wonderfUl things Yale's doing for the commu-
j nity, "' Godshall said. "It's not Yale's way." In its publication 
''Economic Impact: Yale and New Haven," the Secretary's 
Office did include pictures of the Yale-sponsored Special 
Olympics, the DEMOS science tutoring program and vari-
ous initiatives that draw attention to Yale's commitment to 
New Haven welfare. 

Some, however, sense a certain duplicity in Yale's asser-
tions of wide community involvement. Although the uni-
versity takes credit for student volunteers and their contri-
butions to the life of the city, Yale provides almost no fman-
cial support to campus community-service organizations 
like Dwight Hall. Aside from one salaried position and 
maintenance and heating costs for the building, Dwight 
Hall receives no money from Yale. 

"A great deal of Dwight Hall's time is devoted to fUnd-
raising," said Josh Wallack (MC '93), former financial coor-
dinator of the Dwight Hall cabinet. "Meanwhile Yale gets 
all the PR from student work." Many students feel that they 
volunteer in New Haven despite Yale, not because of it. 
Without the burden of fUndraising, students could concen-
trate on developing and extending opportunities for com-
munity work. As Wallack suggested, "Community service is 
an incredible education. It's a pretty ridiculous and near-
sighted vision of education not to support it." 

Yale's wealth, size, and influence, some believe, allow 
it to ignore the needs of its neighbors. In the Hill neigh-
borhood, for example, Yale's continual construction of 
new buildings irritates community leaders. 
"The 
Hospital and the Medical School love to expand," said 
Angel Fernandez, assistant director of the Hill 
Development Corporation (HOC), a community group 
that oversees projects that affect Hill residents. "We're 
here to try to stop or try to control that expansion." Yale 
must get the approval of the HOC before constructing 
buildings in the Hill. 



**Title: Yale and New Haven: A Complex Relationship**
**Author: Joel Tetro**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
l Haven's 
urban 
~ renewal efforts, Yale 
~ set aside $50 million 
~ of its $2.5 billion 
] endowment specifi-
! cally for investments 
.~ in the city. So far, the 
.... :; investment 
pro-
Ang~l F~mantkz protuts th~ Hill from Ya/~ vpansion. 
gram-dubbed the 
New 
Haven 
Initiative-has com-
mitted most of its 
funds to large-scale 
enterprises 
like 
Science Park, a ven-
ture designed to 
attract high-technol-
The HOC's insistence on veto 
power stems from its experience with 
the construction of the Yale Psychiatric 
Institute (YPI). In 1989, Yale bought 
city land in the Hill to build YPI. 
Taking property off the tax rolls caused 
tempers to flare across the town-gown 
divide. "Yale just plunked this building 
down and damned be the neighbor-
hood," said Fernandez. After a bitter 
political battle among the HOC, some 
city officials, and Yale, the contenders 
negotiated an agreement. YPI would 
rent out a portion of the first floor to a 
taxable commercial establishment, and 
the university planned to develop a job-
training program at YPI for Hill resi-
dents. To date, no one has occupied the 
commercial space and only two people 
graduate from the training program 
every year. 

Some suspect that political 
advancement rather than neighborhood 
development may have moved HOC to 
protest. "The community somehow felt 
they had to beat up Yale to get these 
things at YPI," said Farnam. "Some 
people saw it as pure extortion." 

ogy firms to New Haven. Last spring, 
the university dedicated $10 million to 
Ninth Square, a planned restoration of 
ccUJtlre looking for 
. 
, 
tnvestments-were not 
a charitable 
tnstttutton. 
the retail and residential area east of the 
Green. "The key is job development-
you've got to make sure that people in 
the neighborhood have jobs," said John 
W. Hogan, Jr., chairman of the New 
Haven Development 
Commission, a city 
board that monitors 
down town develop-
ment. 

and manage 29 units for low-income 
families in the Hill and Newhallville. 
On Winchester Avenue, the Dixwell 
Community 
Development 
Corporation (DCDC) will build 
McCabe Manor, a 31-unit condomini-
um partly financed by a $200,000 
loan from Yale. 

"We try to put out seed money, 
the kind that makes things go for-
ward," said Joni Barnett, director of 
Yale's Office of Community Relations. 
Godshall claimed that Yale's loans had 
provided the crucial construction 
financing that allowed DCDC's 
McCabe Manor to get off the ground. 
At times, the university's investment 
even becomes a stamp of approval for 
a particular project, helping it to 
attract more investors. "Yale's involve-
ment made Science Park possible," 
said Hogan. 

But the most promising steps 
toward a better rapport occur at the 
level of community contact. Every day, 
Barnett's office fields caJls from New 
Haveners asking for Yale assistance in 
one way or another. When DCDC 
needed someone to teach a seminar ro 
train their members on community 
economic development, they called 
Yale's Office of Community relations 
and asked for Barnett. Since Yale does 
not regularly teach courses or maintain 
faculty in rhe field of urban renewal, 


I
n spite of its difficulties with the 
city, Yale slowly has increased com-
munication and cooperation with 
New Haven, partly in response to the 
dire situation in the streets. (See article 
page 30). In 1987, to support New 
At the same time, 
Yale has put nearly 
$1.5 miUion (the same 
amount 
it spends 
annually on orange 
juice) into smaller 
commun ity-based 
affordable-housing 
projects. One group, 
HOME, Inc., received 
over $1 million in 
loans from Yale co buy john W. Hogan Jr. critiques Yaks commitmmt to th~ city. 


Barnett asked a contact at the 
University of New Haven for help. 
UNH faculty ended up conducting 
DCDC's seminar. 

"We have tried to put Yale people 
out in the communities where this 
kind of listeping can happen," said 
After a legacy of 
mistrust and 
competition, Yale and 
its neighbors have only 
begun to bridge the 
gulf 
Barnett. A Yale representative sits on 
the boards of the HDC, the DCDC, 
and the New Haven Development 
Commission. "If you're a big guy in 
the neighborhood," she added, "you 
have duties to the neighborhood." 

But many in New Haven think 
that Yale has shirked these duties for 
too long. Even with its present invest-
ments, Yale's involvement is not yet up 
to snuff. ·"Yale needs to be more 
aggressive in its investments," said 
Farnam. Although Yale contends that 
its investments help make things hap-
pen, only a handful of projects have 
received university support. 

And Yale's own problems may 
cause the university administration ro 
devote less time to improving town-
gown cooperation. Many New Haven 
leaders believe such a move may be a 
mistake. "It's now a friendly arm's-
length relationship," said Hogan. "But 
a lot more should be done." After a 
legacy of mistrust and competition, 
Yale and its neighbors have only begun 
10 bridge the gui£ 
18) 
Joel T~oro, a sophomore in jonathan 
Edwards, is on the staffofTNJ. 


**Title: AFTERTHOUGHT: Reflections on the Future**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 36**

Reflections on the Future 

n an atmosphere of academic anxi-
ety, Th~ N~w journaL wanted to 
give professors and graduate stu-
dents a chance to speak directly on the 
topic of Yale's future. We asked mem-
bers of the Yale community what they 
thought about the restructuring com-
mittee's recommendations. We present 
their thoughts on the present and their 
concerns and hopes for the future. 

"Th~r~ isn't much of a spirit of an in~­
disciplinary approach. " 
Gaddis Smith, History and Dirutor of 
th~ Cmtu for lnt~rnationaL Studi~s 
The restructuring report gives no 
sense that the world is any different 
today than it was 50 years ago. I think 
that the world has changed very radi-
cally in the last few years-with the 
end of the Cold War and with a grow-
ing recognition of the complex envi-
ronmental, sociological and economic 
problems that the human race faces on 
this planet. This is one of those 
moments when universities have to do 
more than restructure-they have to 
rethink their relationship to the world. 

My response after reading the report a 
couple of times was that it is confined 
to analyzing Yale within the little boxes 
of departments. Interdisciplinary pro-
grams are an after-thought. There isn't 
much of a spirit of an interdisciplinary 
approach. 

It's hard to say what the implica-
tions will be for undergraduate educa-
tion. The report discusses languages 
not in terms of their inherent impor-
tance, but in terms of savings that 
co'uld be made in the teaching staffs. 
It's hard for me to understand why 
things as essential to undergraduate 
education as languages and expository 
writing get brushed off. 

Emily Honig, History and Chair of 
~mms 
Studi~s 
Contact between faculty and stu-
dents has been an essential part of a 
Yale education. I don't see how that 
kind of education will be possible if 
the plan to restructure includes 
decreasing faculty while at the same 
"Undngradwzus won't haw th~ Sllm~ ltind of 
individwzJ contact with profason. • 
time not decreasing the number of stu-
dents admitted. Undergraduates won't 
have the same kind of individual con-
tact with professors. 

Another concern I have relates to 
the basis on which departments will 
make decisions about which faculty 
positions to cut. Cutting faculty posi-
tions forces the departments and the 
university ro confront hard issues 
about what is essential and what is a 
luxury in a college curriculum. Will 
the French department or the English 
department give up the people who 
work on feminism? Departments may 
decide that they need the "basics," and 
therefore cut the not so-called basics. 
What's going to prevent that from 
happening? 

jaroslav P~Likan, History 
No single university can do every-
thing. There are too many planets and 
stars to teach about each of them. 
There are too many languages to offer 
courses in all of them. There are too 
many periods of history for one uni-
versity to encompass. A university has 
to decide if it is going to try to do 
everything, or if it is going to try to do 
fewer things well. The commitment of 
a research university is that the latter is 
where you start, and then you see how 
broad an encompassment you can gee. 

It's very important for universities 
to engage in a much more self-critical 
review than they usually do. It's sad 
that they tend to do so only in times of 
financial constraint. You make a 
choice every time a professor leaves. 
You have to decide whether you go on 
doing whatever that professor special-



**Title: Yale Faculty Respond to Restructuring Plan**
**Author: Various**
**Page number(s): 37-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"We'lL continue to do things that I<Jse money, 
mainly because they are imponant. " 
ized in. If you say yes to that, then you 
say no to something else. In times of 
prosperity, you have to make these 
decisions as well. When you don't, 
that's part of how you get yourself into 
trouble. 

I'm impressed that Yale's decisions 
are based on sound scholarly and intel-
lectual considerations. We'll continue 
to do things that lose money, mainly 
because they are important. There are 
areas in which the university must be 
active or else it would re-define itself. 
Yale has identified those areas and is 
committed to staying active in those 
areas, even if they lose money. 
Sara Suleri, English 

If we have fewer faculty and fewer 
graduate students teaching, we run the 
risk of dispensing with what I regard as 
a luxury of undergraduate education at 
Yale-the seminars-where there is 
lllaximum contact between faculty and 
students. On the research level, if indi-
vidual faculty members are going to 
teach one-third more students than 
they do now, that will obviously affect 
the work they do themselves. 

I feel that the report is going to pit 
departments against one another. 
Departments will be fighting for their 
own turf. We're presented with a list of 
the various cuts, and it becomes 
almost humanly inevitable to say "x 
only lost three, why did we lose five?" I 
certainly feel that it is very divisive on 
a departmental level and does not 
address the critical question of inter-
disciplinary programs at this institu-
tion. In my department, we've always 
been generous in sending faculty out 
"[Departments wiLL say] X only lost thru, 
why did we lou five?m 
to work in interdisciplinary programs. 
If our faculty is cut and theTA assis-
tance is cut, we won't be able to enact 
the interdisciplinary programs that we 
want to see on campus. These pro-
grams are important because they are 
part of the vibrancy with which the 
departments are in dialogue with one 
another. I know I'm speaking for many 
of the faculty in artS and sciences when 
I speak of my regret that the report 
compartmentalizes the departments 
and does not consider the university as 
a community that represents a whole. 
Melvin Ely, History and African-
American Studies 

The cuts seem typical of things 
that are happening in a lot of places. 
The cutbacks affect the way people 
who are here feel about their work, 
and how people outside look at Yale, 
and in that way, they can have an 
effect beyond what the pure numbers 
indicate. Yet these things are happen-
ing in so many places that it is hard to 
say whether the restructuring will 
affect Yale's competitiveness. 

My understanding is that the fac-
ulty positions will be cut back while 
the student body remains at the same 
size or even grows a bit. That bothers 
me, partly because I see the precursor 
"The faculty wiO be cut back while the student 
body remains the same siu. • 
to that in the history department. We 
already have too many students to give 
each the time and energy that he or 
she deserves. Restructuring may make 
that problem more widespread. The 
amount of teaching that graduate stu-
dents do is being cue back, yet there is 
no decrease in the demand for TAs, 
and in theory the cutbacks in faculty 
will increase that demand. Either of 
chose trends would cause tensions. 
The two of them in concert will cause 
even greater problems. 
Donald Kagan, History, Classics, and 
D~an ofYak College 

I believe that Yale ten years from 
now will not be very different from the 
Yale I've known over the last 23 years. 
We have been up and down with good 
times and hard times, and through all 
that it still seems to me to be the same 
Yale. 

I can't see how anyone who 
looks at the hard information could 
come away without the conclusion 
that we are in difficult budgetary 
times. It would be wise of us not to 
encourage false pessimism, however; 
we shouldn't be poisoning the well 
1f6t 
2M2 
•1 believe that Yak ten pan from now wiU not 
be very diffn-mt from the Yak I've /mown over 
the last 23 yean. • 
we are all going to live in. It is per-
fectly all right to criticize the plan-
you could even say the people chat 
proposed it are a bunch of fools. But 
I think it is harmful, unwise, and 
unjustified to say that chis plan will 
have disastrous results. Nobody 
knows that. 

On the foture of mginuring: 
Engineering was studied very carefully 
by the 12 senior faculty members on the 
oommittee. The people who knew best on 
our committee judged that if we simply cur, 
then what was lefi: would not be tenable, so 
we had not only to rut but to reorganize. If I 
had my way engineering would be a lot big-
ger. But we did what we had to do. My per-
sonal opinion is that we have a fighting 
chance to produa: a good engineering pro-
gram of the kind we can sustain at Yale. 
•1 think Yak isn i paying attention to critical 
problems in our worki tQday. • 
Robert Wyman, Biology 

In the biological sciences, the cutbacks 
will have little direct dfect. Since the medical 
school is so close to us, we'll be OK I do 
think che cutbacks will make us education-
ally more oonservative--cutbacks will airnp 
going out in new directions. We won't have 
the financial resources to renew ourselves by 
investing in new educational ventures, 
which are desperately needed. I think char 
Yale isn't paying attention to critical prob-
lems in our wodd today. World ovopopula-
tion is the paramount issue, and basi· 
cally, Yale doesn't deal with it. Another 
issue is the destruction of the environ· 
menc. Given the explosion of biologi· 
cal knowledge, the biology and 
MB&B depaitments put their mont)' 
into molecular biology, which is where 
the big advances have been happening for 
the p3st twenty ycus. !bat lefi: no resowt:CS 
to be put coward researching the destn..tctioll 
of the environment. New money came ill 
for this from the Bass brothers to establish 


the biosphere insriruce, which may evmrual-
ly address this issue. That's a good example 
of how with new money you can gee 
involved in new vencures. Bur when you're 
rutting back you can't do that. 

I'm sorry co see the recrenchmenc in 
engineering because it mortgages the long-
term hope co rebuild New Haven. 
ledmology builds around big science and 
engineering universities. Yale scarced up 
Science Parle to ay co gee high-ccch employ-
ers into the city. It's been a struggle bur it's 
had some sucx:rsses. If we lose the engineer-
ing faculty, we lose the actraaiveness for that 
kind ofindusay to move here. 
·&cmt administratiw tkcisions grav~/y thr~atm 
liN quaiity of ~ducation at Yak. • 
Holly Allm, graduau studmt tn 
Amnican Studi~s 

As a third-year graduate student, I 
view the recently proposed restructuring 
plan as part of a broader pattern of recent 
administrative decisions char gravely 
threaten the quality of education at Yale. 
As a Yale-trained scholar, I am conscious 
of the fact char any lasting damage co 
Yale's academic reputation affoct:s me pro-
fessionally. I am also aware that while 
other universities are considering faculty 
~uaions, no institution ofYale's reputa-
tion and resources has attempted any-
thing Like the cutbacks currently being 
proposed h~ Had I realized before com-
ing to Yale with what ease the administra-
tion puts "bankbooks before textbooks," I 
might have chosen to attend another 
graduate school 

H 
y 
•If Harvard has 1.5 political scimtists for ~v~ry 
on~ at Yak, thry will hav~ a high~r profik. " 
Rog~rs Smith, Political Scimu 

I think the restructuring wiU affect 
Yale's fate as a a:nter of research more dra-
matically than it will undergraduate teach-
ing. We are cutting back faculty even 
though many of Yale's departments are 
already smaller than their counterparts at 
other major reseaoch universities. It will be 
difficult to attract top research scholars to 
Yale when we don't have the positions avail-
able, and it will be harder for the depart-
ments themselves to excel when they don't 
have the sheer number of excdJent research 
scholars chat our competitors have. For 
instance, if Harvard has 1.5 political scien-
tists for every political scientist at Yale, then 
evm ifYales political scientists are very good. 
Harv:mi will inevitably have a higher profile 
in the profession. It will be rough for every 
Yale political scientist to equal or excel every 
1.5 Harv.ud political scientists. 

The faa char sociology is being an so 
severely will have harmful repercussions for 
Yale's social sciences in general. People in 
other social science disciplines will think of 
Yale as not a very good place for them. 
When we're cutting back a laxge number of 
places, that is one of a number of factors thar 
raises the question of whedler Yale can cx>n-
cinue to compete ro be first. Yale isn't going 
ro dedine ow:might. but it will have diffia.d-
ty attrac:cing excdlent: research scholars in the 
future. 

-
Compiled and ~diud by Kau Martin 
Graphics by Noah Landow 


**Title: 1 Hour Color Print Film Developing**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
u 
0 
1 Hour 
Color Print 
Film 
Developing 



AREA'S MOST EXCITING PHOTO CENTER 
DOWNTOWN 
930 Chapel Street 
(Corner of Temple) 
New Haven, CT•624-2599 
WESTVILLE 
1440 Whalley Avenue 
(]ct. of Rts. 63 & 69, Exit 59 off Merritt) 
New Haven, CJ•389-1447 

