Publication date: February 5, 1993
Volume: 25
Issue number: 4


**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Rosita Choy
- Editor-in-Chief: Kathy Reich
- Managing Editors: Emily Baulon, Charlotte Brooks
- Business Manager: Tina Asmuth
- Designer: Annette Kirchner
- Production Manager: Jay Porter
- Photography Editors: Valerie Burgher, Jennifer Ng
- Associate Publisher: Kathleen Weyman
- Associate Editor: Jose Manuel Usoro
- Assistant Production Manager: Joshua Civin
- Circulation Manager: Sonya Joo
- Staff: Joshua Auerbach, Kate Brewster, Elisha Cooper, Jackie Cooperman, Vikash Dhindhwal, Regina Gelin, David Gerber, Jackie Goldberg, Erik Meers, Suzanne Kim, Savannah Neely, Cheryl Sheinkopf
- Members and Directors: Edward B. Bennett III, Constance Clement, Peter B. Cooper, Andy Court, Brooks Kelley, Patricia Pierce, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Friends: Anson M. Beard, Jr., Edward B. Bennett, Jr., Edward B. Bennett III, Blaire Bennett, Paul S. Bennett, Gerald Bruck, Jonathan M. Clark, Louise F. Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Jerry and Rae Coun, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, John Hersey, Brooks Kelley, Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr., Lewis E. Lehrman, E. Nobles Lowe, Peter Neill, Julie Perers, Fairfax C. Randall, Nicholas X. Rizopoulos, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Dick and Debbie Sears, Richard Shields, Thomas Strong, Elizabeth Tate, Alex and Betsy Torello, Allen and Sarah Wardell, Daniel Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- About this Issue
- NewsJournals: Unrealized Goal; Bridging the Gap.
- Afterthought: Talking to Ourselves. By Claudia Highbaugh and Kimberly Goff-Crews.
- In Pursuit of Power. by Stephanie Brenowitz.
- Closed Doors. by Emily Bazelon.
- An Elusive Definition. By Joshua Civin.
- The Dating Game. by Suzanne Kim.
- A Pledge to Belong. by John Gorham.
- Integration Remembered. by Erik Meers.
- Against the Tide. by Joshua Auerbach.
- Not in Their Backyard. by David Gerber.
- Saving the City's Soul. by Jose Manuel Tesoro.


**Title: About this Issue**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: NewsJournals: Unrealized Goal; Bridging the Gap.**
**Page number(s): 5**


**Title: Afterthought: Talking to Ourselves.**
**Author: Claudia Highbaugh and Kimberly Goff-Crews**
**Page number(s): 38**


**Title: In Pursuit of Power.**
**Author: Stephanie Brenowitz**
**Page number(s): 8**


**Title: Closed Doors.**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 10**


**Title: An Elusive Definition.**
**Author: Joshua Civin**
**Page number(s): 15**


**Title: The Dating Game.**
**Author: Suzanne Kim**
**Page number(s): 18**


**Title: A Pledge to Belong.**
**Author: John Gorham**
**Page number(s): 20**


**Title: Integration Remembered.**
**Author: Erik Meers**
**Page number(s): 24**


**Title: Against the Tide.**
**Author: Joshua Auerbach**
**Page number(s): 26**


**Title: Not in Their Backyard.**
**Author: David Gerber**
**Page number(s): 29**


**Title: Saving the City's Soul.**
**Author: Jose Manuel Tesoro**
**Page number(s): 32**



**Title: About This Issue**
**Author: The Editors**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Issues of race and ethnicity continue to split this nation 
apart. The riot that rocked Los Angeles in April 1992 
sent us a message of rage and despair, and the SOOth 
anniversary of Columbus forced us to re-examine the 
impact of his discovery upon America's indigenous peo-
ples. Race should have been on everyone's mind, especially 
during the 1992 presidential election. 

But it wasn't. The promising racial dialogue that 
emerged from the riots faded as tiine passed. Yet the issues 
surrounding race and ethnicity continued to play a crucial 
role in the social scene of this country. At Yale and in New 
Haven, these issues have particularly strong resonance-
yet often we do not discuss them. Much of the time, we 
consider racial issues too touchy or troubling to confront, 
or we are simply too exhausted to bridge the gaps in racial 
and cultural understanding that f~ce · our community. We 
feel that everything has been said, and that no one has lis-
tened. 

This month's TN] tries to say something new in the 
racial and cultural debate. We've titled this issue "Rights of 
Passage" because many of the people featured in our arti-
cles are fighting for equal access to Yale and to the city. 
But "Rights of Passage" has a double meaning. If the Yale 
community moves toward ensuring equality for all its 
members, the university itself will undergo a rite of pas-
sage, and approach a new level of maturity. 

In this issue, we have not tried for comprehensive cov-
erage of all the racial and ethnic issues that affect Yale and 
New Haven. But we have made a beginning-one which 
we intend to build upon in the future as we continue to 
cover racial and ethnic issues. We hope to provoke our 
readers to think about the changes that our university and 
our city so badly need. 

-The Editors.


**Title: Editors' Note**
**Author: N/A**

Jackie Cooperman's profile of professor Hazel Carby will 
appear in the April issue.


**Title: Unrealized Goal**
**Author: Kai Bird**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Released four years ago this May, 
the "Report of the Committee on 
Recruitment and Retention of 
Minority Group Members on the 
Faculty at Yale," better known as the 
Rodin Report, ended "on a note of 
urgency and with a call for greater 
equity and diversity at Yale." The 
report established ten-year targets for 
minority representation on the facul-
ty-targets administrators now doubt 
Yale can meet. In nearly every school 
and department, percentages of 
minority faculty, especially blacks and 
Hispanics, continue to hover at the 
pitifully low levels the Rodin Report 
deplored. 

"The numbers are not good at 
Yale, and they are not good national-
ly,, said Frances Holloway, director of 
the Office for Equal Opportunity 
Programs. She and Deputy Provost 
Charles Long oversee University-wide 
affirmative action. Both claim that 
national trends have thwarted Yale's 
good intentions. Long painted a grim 
picture of fierce competition among 
institutions of Yale's caliber for a tiny .. 
pool of qualified minority candidates, 
with universities routinely "raiding" 
each other to boost their percentages, 
only to be raided in turn the following 
year. "It's not a solution on a national 
level,, he said. "We have some exciting 
candidates in searches now ongoing, 
but we're still talking about people you 
can count on one hand., 

Holloway monitors the English 
department's yearly search to fill three 
or four open-field junior positions, 
which usually draws three to four hun-
dred applicants. "I know the depart-
ment knows what to do, but they have 
not been successful in finding black or 
Hispanic finalist candidates," she said. 
"Those candidates just aren't there. 
There is nobody, and I think that's 
outrageous." 

Nationally, whites made up about 
90 percent of all faculty in 1985-86, 
FEBRU.U.Y 5· 1993 
according to the Rodin Report. Only 
8.1 percent of Ph.D.s in the humani-
ties awarded in 1991 went to people of 
color, who account for about 20 per-
cent of the U.S. population. In other 
words, a college or university that 
wants to hire a black faculty member 
in the humanities competes with 
3~000 other institutions for about 100 
judith Rodin chair~d th~ committu on 
minority faculty. 
new Ph.D.s each year. "The numbers 
are scary," said Long. 

Among its 22 recommendations, 
the Rodin Report urged more recruit-
ment of students of color to academic 
fields at every level in the "pipeline," the 
path to an advanced degree that starts 
in high school. Yale College minority 
enrollment has continued to rise, reach-
ing 29 percent this year, and representa-
tion at the School of Medicine has 
climbed to 40 percent. The Medical 
School leads the pack in faculty hiring 
as well. "If I had to pick a spot where I 
see progress, at a very junior level, it 
would be the Med School," said 
Holloway. But in the Graduate School, 
the percentage of all students of color 
has reached just 12 percent. 

The Rodin Report attempted to 
address both the broader causes of the 
low numbers and to suggest changes in 
university policy that would bolster 
affirmative action in hiring and reten-
tion. It urged a more extensive system 
of mentors for graduate students and 
junior faculty, compensation for the 
"special burdens" on minority faculty 
members spread too thin among myri-
ad committees, and efforts to locate 
and attract candidates of color that 
include hiring them outside of formal 
searches. 

Mixed results imply that such tac-
tics can only go so far, and the univer-
siry already seems to have abandoned 
some of them. The report suggested 
the teaching load might be reduced 
for faculty of color, but according to 
Long, Yale's teaching load is already 
quite low. 

Candidates and junior faculty 
continue to be lured away by institu-
tions such as state universities on the 
tenure-track system, which guarantee 
tenure when they first hire--a guaran-
tee Yale refuses to match. "Yale only 
gives tenure to the very best," said 
Long. "We have already gone as far as 
possible in lowering budgetary barriers 
so as to provide opportunities for 
minorities and women." Strategies for 
lowering these barriers include "mort-
gaging" positions by hiring new facul-
ty members in anticipation of retire-
ments, which has proven successful. 
"But otherwise, the only possibiliry is 
to make us a tenure-track university, 
and we can't afford to do that,, said 
Long. "No one would seriously argue 
that Yale should lower its standards." 

The administration's main state-
ment on p rogress since the Rodin 
Report, this December's updated 
"Affirmative Action and Equal 
Opportunity Policies," mostly con-
tains descriptions of new procedures 
and monitoring committees. Reports 
of proportionate ethnic representation 
on the faculty seem years away. 

Holloway blames lack of Ph.D. fund-
ing and role models on the arts and 
sciences faculty for the high number of 
people of color who instead turn to 
fields like medicine or law. Her office 
TH£ NEW jOURNAL 5 

continues to monitor searches as she 
urges departments to work towards 
"the real affirmative action," which she 
describes as taking place on the level of 
networking, informal conversations, 
and overall attitudes. While she said 
that departments seem genuinely sup-
portive of affirmative action in her 
dealings with them, she emphasized 
that no office can ensure the intangible 
atmosphere that will make, for 
instance, a lone black faculty member 
feel completely welcome. "All the 
monitoring is necessary as a check on 
the system," Long observed. "But until 
higher education in general seems a 
more attractive path to minorities, 
these efforts, while laudable, are 
bound to be effective only in a very 
Limited way." 

-Ka~ B~stn-


**Title: Bridging the Gap**
**Page number(s): 6**

Students and administrators 
established the ethnic counselor pro-
gram to ease minority students' transi-
tion to Yale. Although hindered by 
their uncertain status within the fresh-
person counseling program, ethnic 
counselors do their best to uphold the 
principles behind their positions. 

"Because minority students have their 
own unique experiences at Yale, they 
need guidance from a person who can-
share similar kinds of experiences," 
said Don Nakanishi (SY '71), one of 
the first ethnic counselors. However, 
some students debate the need for eth-
nic counselors and see the program as 
encouraging separatism. 

The ethnic counselor program 
began in 1972 through the collective 
efforts of student groups, minority 
students, and administrators who 
acknowledged the changes that greater 
diversity and coeducation had brought 
to Yale. At the time, most minority 
students came from inner-city or pre-
dominantly ethnic neighborhoods, 
and Yale provided their first experience 
6 THE New jouRNAL 
of life in a largely white community. 

The program provided students of 
color with upperclass ethnic peers 
who could help them confront issues 
of racial, cultural, or linguistic differ-
ence. "When we admit certain stu-
dents who we feel can succeed here, we 
must provide them with adequate sup-
port," said Assistant Dean Mary Li 
Hsu (SY '80), Coordinator of Asian-
American Student Affairs. 

Despite good intentions, a lack of 
focus plagued the program in its early 
years. The first ethnic counselors, 
called "floating counselors," did not 
live on Old Campus, and few clear 
goals specified their roles. As a resulc, 
the position brought with it broad and 
open-ended re.sponsibilities. But as 
time passed, the program developed 
into a more structured and indepen-
dent institution. 

At present, 11 ethnic counselors 
join the freshperson counselors for an 
intensive three-day training program 
in August that includes lectures, dis-
cussions, and role-playing on mental 
health and student issues. During the 
school year, ethnic counselors contact 
counsdees in much the same way resi-
dential counselors do--through study 
breaks and dinner dates. 

Ethnic counselor Julia Gore (CC 
'93) believes that her role encompasses 
facets of undergraduate life not cov-
ered by the general freshperson coun-
seling program. "I am a residential 
counselor with an ethnic perspective, 
an ethnic sensitivity," she said. 

Gore does not exclusively handle 
issues of race, but some students feel 
uncertain about approaching an ethnic 
counselor with problems other than 
those related to ethnicity. "I wasn't 
sure if I had to differentiate my prob-
lems as either personal or ethnic," said 
Nicole Rodriguez (CC '94). "Was I 
supposed to go to my residential coun-
selor for certain problems, then to my 
ethnic counselor for others? I felt that 
my residential counselor should have 
been able to handle any problem that I 
confronted." 

Some students voice discomfort 
with the ethnic counselor program for 
other reasons. International students 
are assigned ethnic counselors, 
although they may feel distant from 
U.S. issues of ethnicity. And often 
studen ts who come from predomi-
nantly white neighborhoods do not 
feel they need an ethnic counselor to 
help them cope with living in a famil-
iar environment. 

T he ethnic counseling program 
has also come under attack for unfairly 
benefitting students of color in a way 
that leads to separatism. Gloria Akan 
(DC '94) said that a few white people 
she knew freshperson year expressed 
annoyance that she had an extra coun-
selor because of her ethnicity. 

"I 
wasn't sure if their discomfort was 
because they felt disadvantaged," she 
said, "or because they thought I was 
receiving preferential treatment." 

Assistant Dean Valeriano Ramos 
(ES '81), Coordinator ofPueno Rican 
Student Affairs and administrator of 
the ethnic counselor program, denies 
that the ethnic counselor program 
polarizes the campus into separate 
communities. He believes that a stu-
dent's integration into an ethnic com-
munity is part of his or her adjustment 
to Yale. "The ethnic counselor is there 
to offer all minority students the 
chance to find their own community 
at Yale, not just to become a part of 
only the ethnic community," said 
Ramos. "Integrating freshpeople into 
the larger Yale community is a task 
that's as important." 

To Ramos, charges of separatism 
are the least of the challenges that face 
the ethnic counselor program. Instead, 
he admits that certain logistical aspects 
of the program hinder a counselor's 
effectiveness. Because students of color 
are assigned to ethnic counselors on 
the basis of similar ethnic back-
grounds-rather than on an equal 
number of students per counselor-
ethnic counselors handle students from 
three to six colleges, with an average of 
16 to 50 counselees per counselor. 

FEBRUARY S· 1993 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author:  Gina Contin**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
l breaks in the chain," 
~ said 
Gore. 
For 
~ instance, one ethnic 
~ counselor was left in the 
~~-"5 dark for a week about 
•..ta~lll ~ one of her counselee's 
Jl health problems . 


'5 
Freshperson coun-
~ selor Steve Ribisi (CC 
'93) acknowledged the 
unintentional communi-
cation gaps between the 
residential and ethnic 
counselors. "I feel com-
fortable talking with the 
eth nic counselors about 
the freshpeople, but chere 
is a little division," he said. 
"Residential counselors 
live and work as a team. 
The ethnic counselors are 
not pare of the same bond 
because we don't see them 
Ethnic couns~lors try to ~as~ fteshp~ons' transition to Yak. on a daily basis." 
In comparison, residential coun· 
selors take on only eight to 22 fresh-
people each. 
Ethnic counselor 
Catherine Lee (PC '94) believes that 
the higher number of counselees lim its ~ 
opportunities fo r close ties. "It just"" 
depends on how often our paths tend 
h > cross," she said. In add ition, many 
ethnic counselors do not live in their 
counselees' residential halls, which 
leaves them unaware of some counse-
lees' problems. 
O ld Campus security regulations 
also dictate that counselors can only 
access four Old Campus enrryways. "I 
felt it was ridiculous having to choose 
which counselees' dorms I had access 
to," said M ialisa Villafane (PC '93), 
head ethnic counselor. 
Yale's loop of support for fresh-
people also sometimes leaves ethnic 
counselors on the outside. The ethnic 
counselo rs must both build lines of 
communication with the freshperson 
counselors and the dean of the college 
they serve, and stay in touch with their 
counterparts in other colleges. "It can 
gee really confusing because there are 
F £allUARY 5· 1993 
Ethnic counselors 
only k now a fractio n of a college's 
freshpeople, wh ich distances them 
from aspects of the weekly counselor 
meetings. Still, they do not necessarily 
view reaching out to all freshpeople as 
part of their job. "Ethnic counselors 
will always be separate because they do 
not serve the entire community," said 
Lisa Burgos (MC '91), a former ethnic 
counselor. 
Nevertheless, Dean Ramos argues 
that the p rogram benefits all in the 
Yale community, including white stu-
dents and counselees who do nor seek 
out their ethnic counselors. He 
believes that ethnic counselors create a 
greater sense of personal awareness in 
their counselees, thus providing other 
students with a chance to learn about 
these students' cultures and communi-
ties. "Yo u have to provide channels 
through which issues of ethnicity 
come out," he said. "Without the 
input from ethnic groups, the larger 
commu nity wouldn't understand the 
issues confronting these groups." 


**Title: In Pursuit of Power**
**Author: Stephanie Brenowitz**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

L
ike other immigrants who have made America their 
home, Latinos have come to the United States seeking 
a bener way of life. In the cities, they search for jobs, 
housing, and education. But many obstacles plague their 
American dream. The formidable language barrier is just 
the beginning of a s~ries of other difficulties: lack of effec-
tive education, scarce employment, and discrimination. 

Several different Latino nationalities share the same 
ethnic label on the census, but only Puerto Rican 
immigrants can claim automatic citizenship. Despite the 
potential divisiveness of this distinction, Puerto Ricans and 
other Latinos in New Haven have come together to form 
service and political organizations, to combat their shared 
difficulties and disappointments, and to serve their commu-
nity's needs. 

New Haven Latinos, who make up 13 percent of the 
city's population, primarily consist of Puerto Ricans and 
Mexicans, with other Latin Americans in smaller numbers, 
such as Colombians, Salvadorans, and Peruvians. Puerto 
Ricans, U.S. citizens since 1917, make up 80 percent of the 
Latino population, with 17,000 residents; Mexicans, the 
next largest and fastest growing group, cannot be accurately 
accounted for, since many are illegal aliens that standard 
population measures do not include. Estimates of their 
numbers vary from one to ten thousand. "New Englanders 
are still trying to figure out what a Mexican looks like. They 
think we are all Puerto Ricans," said Angel Fernandez, 
board member of Latino Youth Development. "The white 
community in New Haven doesn't know the difference, 
doesn't recognize the diversity in the Latino population." 

Stereotypes can overshadow the lives of Latinos with 
Hollywood images, according to Valeriano Ramo (ES '81), 
director of the Casa Cultural Julia de Burgos (Puerto Rican 
Cultural Center). "Puerto Ricans are seen as hot-tempered, 
fighting each other all the time, carrying switchblades-like 
in ~st Sid~ SUJry," he said. "Mexicans are seen as docile, 
lazy, unwilling to work." Ramos bemoans the effect that 
such generalizations have upon his community. "You can 
just imagine what it's like to be misunderstood in this way 
by the dominant white culture." 

Puerto Ricans have been coming to northern cities like 
New Haven in search of employment since the 50s, often 
shuttling back and forth between Puerto Rico and the 
States. Mexicans began the journey north in the 80s in 
search of plentiful factory jobs. Although the jobs eventual-
ly dried up, the flow of immigrants did not, and many 
8 THE NEW jOURNAL 
found themselves unemployed, sometimes without skills or 
citizenship, often without knowledge of English. 

Puerto Ricans, who have run service agencies for 
decades in New Haven, found themselves with neighbors 
who spoke their language but who had different customs, 
and little access to government services. Puerto Ricans have 
many advantages as U.S. citizens, including access towel-
fare and other social programs, and the freedom to return to 
Puerto Rico at will. But as Latinos, they also face linguistic 
and cultural barriers that separate them &om white society. 
"Latinos are not just bilingual, they are also bicultural," 
said Fernandez. Sharon Mackwell, director of Centro San 
Jose, agrees. "Aside from the language difficulties, the cul-
tural mores are different," she said. "Latin Americans look 
for trust and loyalty, for personal relations with people they 
can trust in the schools and the government." 

Existing agencies have expanded to fill gaps by shifting 
their target groups and services to handle the needs of a 
changing community. To accommodate the influx of Latin 
Americans, Puerto Rican agencies have tried to provide ser-
vices to all Latinos, a process currently moving slowly but 
surely according to Dennis Hart, director of Latino Youth 
Development. "The Puerto Rican community sometimes 
has a reputation in other Latin American countries for 
being difficult to get along with and not treating other 
Latinos very well," said Hart. "But now we have to get 
along." 

Programs have evolved to better serve the current needs 
of the community. Latino Youth Development originally 
began as an after-school recreational and educational pro-
gram for Puerto Rican children. When the organization 
opened its doors to all Latinos, it also created services for 
adults, tackling education as well as job-training, referrals, 
advocacy, and counseling for troubled families. "You can't 
help the kids without helping the parents," said Fernandez. 
Latino Youth now serves all Latinos and even some African-
Americans. Its services include distribution of clothing and 
food when available. "Our job is to ease entry into New 
Haven for these people, to help them gain access to ours 
and others' services, to better their lives," said Hart. 

Centro San Jose also began as a Puerto Rican service 
agency in the Fair Haven area, where many Latinos live. 
Centro focuses on educational activities for children and 
adults. In addition, the agency conducts prevention pro-
grams aimed at the family that address drug and alcohol 
abuse, staying in school, and teenage pregnancy. 

"The idea is to get to the parents and kids before these 
things become problems," said director Mackwell. "For 
example, we target our pregnancy-prevention at fourth- and 
fifth-graders. Their ideas about these things are becoming 
concrete at this age. We try to show them that the world is 
not closed to them, that they have options." 

The problem of ineffective or non-existent education 
for native Spanish speakers in the United States leads direct-
ly to employment problems. Many Latinos in New Haven 
do low-skill, low-wage work that offers little chance of 
upward mobility, and non-citizens have no unions or legal 
recourse for poor working conditions. Both Latino Youth 
Development and Centro San Jose provide job training and 
vocational instruction to improve the skills of Latinos, who 
often remain in the 
working class for 
generations. 

With the reces-
sion, a sense of des-
peration 
among 
Latinos has become 
niore evident, says 
Mackwell. 
"The 
combination of a 
language barrier, 
cultural differences, 
and lack of ade-
quate 
education 
make it difficult to 
find employment," 
she said. 

Latinos, as the 
last group to enter 
the work force in 
New Haven, often 
lose their jobs first 
when a factory clos-
es. "Even those with education and skills are out of work," 
says Alderman Eduardo Perez. Many immigrants from 
Latin America who received schooling in their native coun-
tries cannot find work in their fields because of the language 
barrier and must take lower echelon jobs. 

Service agencies offer English-as-a-Second-Language 
(ESL) classes for these clients as well as those stili in school. 
Students in New Haven have also stepped in to help pro-
vide educational services to the community. Latinos at Yale 
work with the New Haven community through Despierto 
Boricua or el Movimiento Estudantil Chicano de Aztlan 
(MEChA), the Puerto Rican and Mexican-American stu-
dent groups on campus. The organizations work together 
on some issues of community outreach, such as their joint 
literacy tutoring program. 

fEBRUARY 5, 1993 
"Latinos at Yale have a lot in common with Latinos in~ 
New Haven, despite what many people think," says,! 
Christina Gonzalez (CC '94), member of MEChA. ''A lot~ 
of Latinos at Yale are first or second generation, like the~ 
Latinos in this city." She also feels relatively few class ten-~ 
sions as a student at a prestigious, expensive university.~ 
"The people I meet in New Haven are usually encouraging.\3 
They're pleased that I'm studying and tell me to keep at it."~ 

Language and a need for unity bind the Latinos on~ 
th 
La . 
. 
"La 
..t-
campus to 
e greater 
uno commumty. 
nguage ts one 1! 
of our commonalities," says Eva Blanco (CC '94), a mem- ~ 
her of MEChA. "To create power and movement in any '" 
community, Latinos have to unite." 

Increasingly, Latinos in New Haven have united as 
voters. Most recently, 
the city elected its 
third Latino alderman, 
Eduardo 
Perez, 
in 
addition to Alderman 
George 
Perez· 
and 
President of the Board 
of Alderman Tomas 
Reyes Reyes may run 
for mayor of New 
Haven, a testament to 
the greater power that 
Latinos still seek. 
"In the last few 
years, Latinos have 
been voting more, get-
ting more involved," 
said Eduardo Perez. 
"As they become citi-
zens and get more edu-
cated, they become 
more aware of what's 
going on, of their 
responsibilities and their rights." 

In the future, 
Eduardo Perez hopes to see more Latino candidates. 
"Before Reyes, politicians weren't Latinos. Now there 
are many, and I hope there will be many more." 

Puerto Ricans and other Latin Americans have come 
together as service providers and as a voting block, 
rather than dividing along lines of nationality. With the 
possibility of a Latino mayor on the horizon, they may 
be looking at one of the high points of their efforts to 
bring the community together to fight for their ri&il 
and needs. 

Stephanie Brenowitz is a sophomore in Timothy Dwight 
College. 



**Title: Closed Doors**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
n a walk home from the gym one evening last 
spring, Yusef Poole (BR '95) and Jason Watt (CC 
'95) noticed a white female student in front of 
them looking over her shoulder and then moving out of 
their path. "She made a great effort to get out of our way," 
said Watt. "She clung to the wall on the side of Morse and 
looked at us like we were about to attack her." 

Black students at Yale report that fellow students, facul-
ty, and police often treat them as if they pose a threat. With 
deadening regularity, students who are not black speed up 
to get away from black students on the street, ask to see 
their identification, and slam college gates in their faces. For 
<(What is a Yale student, that you 
assumed I wasn 't one? Why would 
you stop and question me as opposed to 
another student?n 
many black students, suspicion becomes the stuff of daily 
interactions, so much so that they almost cease to notice it. 
''I'm so desensitized," said Rhassan Manning (BK '94). 
"This happens a lot to me and my friends, but it's strange to 
think of it as an issue." 

Yale's urban setting brings into sharp focus the question 
of who belongs on campus. Many students and faculty 
react warily to people who look like they might not be affil-
iated with Yal~those whose color or dress stands out from 
the expected clean-cut student look. Black students often 
become the targets of such suspicion. The encounters that 
result may stem from whites' desire to protect themselves 
against the anonymous dangers of New Haven, yet they 
take place one-on-one, in the realm of the inescapably per-
sonal. As a result, they often undermine black students' 
sense of themselves as members of the Yale community. 

Black students believe that most of the suspicion they 
face comes from the connection, conscious or unconscious, 
that whites draw between blacks, New Haven residents, and 
crime. Split-second judgments based on the assumprion 
that blacks are trouble create misunderstandings and worse. 
"You think, 'I can't tell a dangerous black person from a Yale 
student black person,' so the next logical step is to treat 
them all like outsiders," said Orlando Bishop (PC '94). 

The pattern of fear and suspicion that black students 
face on the street intensifies at campus entry points. 
Tension over who has the right of access rises most at col-
lege gates and entryway doors-sensitive spots for outsider 
intrusion. According to Yale's security policy, anyone who 
tries to get into a college without a key must show his or her 
ID. But most students apply the policy selectively. While 
white students hold gates for each other without asking 
questions, black students say they receive a different kind of 
treatment. "Often it's hard for someone to open an entry-
way for me," said Crystal Marie Smith (DC '93). Like 
many students, she has most frequently met with such 
problems on Old Campus. "Last year I'd go to visit a friend 
there and ask a group of 15 people to open the door, and 
they'd all say no." 

Much of the suspicion from white students expresses 
itself in a ·vague pattern of looks, gestures, and uncomfort-
able moments that black students can neither prove nor 
ignore. "People close gates in my face, walk faster, or eve9 
just hesitate," said Bishop. "A lot of people get startled o'r 
frightened if they come out and see me in a hallway." 

Because these encounters take place in fleeting moments of 
personal contact, they remain difficult to confront. "With a 
lot of this stuff it's subtle," Bishop said. "You can't pinpoint 
it. That's what's frustrating. Over time you see a difference 
in the way you're treated, but other people can argue that 
there isn't one if they don't want to see it." 

The subtle difference in treatment becomes even more 
difficult for black students to address when it comes from 
faculty and administrators. When Fra~gher Williams (CC 
'92) went to look for a friend one afternoon in the William 
L. Harkness (WLH) classroom building, a professor 
watched him as he walked the hallway looking in classroom 
windows. Williams went up to the second floor, and the 
professor followed. As Williams started back down the 
stairs, the professor stood at the bottom and blocked the 
way. He asked Williams to state his purpose and show his 
identification. 

Williams explained himself to the professor and left 
WLH rattled and upset. He went to talk to a friend, who 
advised him to go back. When Williams found the profes-
sor, he questioned the faculty member about the reasons 
for his suspicion. "I asked him: 'What is a Yale student, that 
you assumed I wasn't one?'" Williams said. "'Why would 
you stop and question me as opposed to another student?'" 


--- Page 11 ---

The professor's answer only made Williams feel worse. 
"He said: 'There's been a rash of New Haven people in and 
out of the building," Williams recalled, "and I thought you 
were one of them.'" 

Such responses are common, and they pose a double-
edged problem for black students. On one hand, many 
feel bitter about whites' assumption that because they 
are black, they must not go to Yale. But at the same time, 
black students do not want to disassociate themselves from 
the New Haven black community. By protesting their 
treatment, black students risk shifting attitudes of trust and 
acceptance to include themselves, but not other blacks. 

These concerns especially apply to black students' 
attempts to improve their interactions with the police. 
Although black students know that as Yalies they 
should not have to tolerate suspicion and harass-
ment, they worry that putting the problem into stu-
dent vs. non-student terms fails to overturn under-
lying racist stereotypes. "It's messed up in the sense 
that cops still assume that if you're black, you're a 
criminal, but if you're a Yale student, -then you're 
cool," said Eddie Poteat (TO '94). 

Confrontations with police make black stu-
dents keenly aware of the shaky ground they stand 
on. Many report that police are quick to question 
their place in the Yale community. In November of 
1991, a police car approached Shawn Golden (BK 
'94) just before midnight on Beinecke Plaza. The 
police officer reported that as he 
drove up, Golden turned to 
walk away; Golden says that 
the police officer shined the 
car's headlights into his face. 
The officer got out of the car 
and asked if Golden knew 
anything about some type-
writers that had been 
stolen from Woodbridge 
Hall. Although other 
students also passed by, 
he questioned only 
Golden. 

Because 
Golden was not 
enrolled at the time 
and so did not 

have a student ID, the police officer did not believe his 
claims to be a student. EventuaUy, he let Golden go, but his 
report of the event remains in Golden's permanent Yale file. 
Golden believes that the police officer stopped him 
because he is a young black male who chooses not to dress 
like a "typical" Yale student. His assessment exposes an 
added twist in the question of who gets treated like an out-
sider on campus. Because appearance is often the basis for 
suspicion, dress, hair, and personal style play a role in which 
black students get stopped most. Students who wear "prep-
py" clothes and look traditionally "clean cut" face fewer 
questions than those who wear baggy pants, high top sneak-
ers, and baseball 
jackets. "I have less 
of a problem than 
some other people, 
because I have that 
'nice Negro image,"' 
said Anthony Miles 
(BR '93). "That's 
who I am, the way 
I'm comfortable, but 
I'm also not deviat-l 
ing from or chal-
lenging the main-~
stream cu ture. 


--- Page 12 ---

Many 
black 
students buy Yale 
hats, book bags, or 
sweat shirts to iden-
tify 
themselves; 
others choose to 
dress

conservatively. This strategy helps, but 
it is far from foolproof. "The way I 
look," said Miles, "doesn't mean I 
don't get stopped by the police." 

Some black students deal with 
harassment by changing their 
behavior rather than their 
appearance. Some don't drop in on 
friends without calling first to avoid 
asking white students to open gates or 
entryways for them. Some choose to 
distance themselves from the rest of 
the student body as a result of the atti-
tudes they perceive around them. "I 
have my friends, and that's who I hang 
out with," said Kassem Lucas (TC 
'94). "I've accepted the situation and 
dealt with it." 

For some students, encounters 
with suspicion fuel the urge to move 
off campus. In their own apartments, 
black students can close the door, at 
least part of the time, on the problems 
they face at Yale. Some black students 
have moved to a cluster of streets 
behind Pierson College where they can 
make a space for themselves in a pre-
dominantly black neighborhood. ''I'd 
rather be in a neighborhood where I 
feel like I belong, and here on 
Edgewood I know that no one's going 
to stop me," said Valdir Barbosa (TD 
'94). "For me, moving off was a matter 
of leaving Yale so that I could feel 
comfortable in my own home." 

The number of black students 
who move off campus matches the 12 
percent of the general Yale undergrad-
uate population. But the reasons that 
black students give for moving off dif-
fer from those of white students. Black 
students often speak of deep-rooted 
feelings of alienation and cultural dif-
ference. As a result, they often do not 
maintain close ties with campus life. 
''A lot of black students who move off 
never hang out in their colleges," said 
Smith. "They go to register, drop off 
their schedule, and that's it." 

For other black students, the deci-
sion to remain on campus reflects a 
commitment to dealing with the prob-
lems they have encountered at Yale. 
Although the professor who stopped 
Williams in WLH later published an 
apology in the Yale Daily News, for 
Williams the episode had a lasting 
impact. "That professor put me at a 
loss," he said. "It was the low point 
when I really lost confidence in Yale. I 
was hurt and shocked at the time, and 
it still bothers me." Yet in spite of that 
incident and others, Williams put 
aside the impulse to leave campus and 
lived in his college throughout his four 
years as an undergraduate. "I made a 
conscious decision to keep a presence 
in my college," said Williams. "I want-
ed to stay in Calhoun because there are 
so few black students there." 

Whatever personal decisions they 
make in terms of how and where they 
live at Yale, experiences of harassment 
lead black students to call on Yale's 
white students, administration, and 
police to examine their own behavior. 
Only if the white community devotes 
energy to finding solutions, they say, 
will the problem begin to fade. 

To date, the police department 
has been the part of the Yale commu-
nity most involved in dealing with 
black students' complaints. In the past 
two years that effort has begun to pay 
off, and the relationship between 
police and 
black students has 
improved. 

Both police and students give 
much of the credit to community-
based policing, the patrol system Yale 
Police shifted to in 1990. Between 6 
p.m. and 2 a.m., Yale officers monitor 



**Title: Police-Community Relations at Yale**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
regular beats on foot. Their job 
includes meeting with neighborhood 
residents to determine the sensitive 
areas and issues of their beat, and then 
working with a supervisor to come up 
with solutions. "Community-based 
policing is a change to a more proac-
tive approach," said Ass is tan t Police 
Chief James Perotti. "When police are 
that involved in their beat, they know 
what's going on and that earns them a 
lot of support." Officers on patrol even 
have beepers with numbers that they 
can give to the people on their beat. 
Eventually, the university plans to use 
the system around the clock. 

With community-based polic-
ing has come another inno-
vation that seeks to ease 
tensions between police and commu-
nity-renewed emphasis on sensitivity 
training. The police department 
claims that every new officer receives 
such training, which includes day-long 
seminars on how to handle the myriad. 
issues that arise in a diverse communi-
ty, such as hate crime and harassment. 
Some police have sought to reach out 
to Yale's black students in more direct 
ways as well. Even before community-
based policing started, a few of the 
black officers on the Yale police force 
spent time in the Afro-American 
Cultural Center getting to know stu-
dents. 

The police departm ent's attempts 
to address black students' concerns 
have not gone unnoticed. "It's gotten a 
lot better since freshman year, since 
they started the community-based 
policing and the sensitivity training," 
said Poteat. "The police are getting to 
know people within the community." 
In general, black students point to a 
measurable improvement in the pat-
tern of their interactions with police. 
"Freshman year, I had some problems 
with police," said Mangum. "But this 
year, they've been a lot more friendly 
and personable." 

Changes in police training and 
procedure point the way to steps for 
improving race relations among stu-
dents as well. Some black students 
would like to see sensitivity workshops 
on race for incoming students, along 
the lines of the safety and alcohol dis-
cussions that first-year students now 
attend. Next semester, the Black 
Student Alliance at Yale (BSAY) plans 
tg sponsor a forum on harassment, 
open to students of all colors, with 
police and university officials. BSAY 
hopes to raise awareness among white 
students who may not have given a lot 
of thought to their own behavior. 

Flemming Norcott, an Associate 
Justice of the Connecticut Supreme 
Court who teaches the political science 
course Blacks and the Law, supports 
BSAY's stategy. He advises frustrated 
students to organize if they want 
change. "The university is certainly 
responsible for taking more affirmative 
steps towards solution-making," said 
Norcott. "Som etimes they may be 
slower than we want them to be, but 
that doesn't mean we can't try to push 
them." 

Norcott believes that as an aca-
demic community, the university 
offers a unique opportunity for work-
ing toward easing racial tensions. "The 
university is fertile ground, maybe the 
most fertile in the world, for resolving 
misunderstandings rationally," he said. 
"If we can't do that at the university, 
then where can we? This is the perfect 
place for attempting to understand 
each other." 

Black students also speak of creat-
ing such an environment of under-
standing. On the personal level of day-
to-day interaction, they call on white 
students to recognize their actions 
and consider the reasons behind 
them. "If every student acknowledges 
that yes, I did hesitate, or look at you 
funny, o r decide not to open the 
gate, it would help," said Bishop. "It 
doesn't mean you're a worse person, 
just that you've learned the lesson 
well. If you don't acknowledge the 
problem you'll never stop doing 
those things to people . .,, 

Black students also believe that 
whites need to address the way in 
which racially-based suspicion affects 
their attitudes toward blacks who live 
outside the walls of Yale. They claim 
that the widely-held assumption that 
black New Haven residents commit 
most of the crime on. campus is mis-
placed. "I really think that if people 
would stop watching the black peo-
ple who are walking around Yale and 
start watching their roommates and 
hallmates, they would find out where 
their things are going," said Bishop. 
"The general public doesn't have the 
kind of access to Yale to steal all the 
things that get stolen." 

As they look toward the future, 
black students hope to pass much of 
the responsibility for change to white 
students and the·Yale administration. 
Although they may support efforts 
like BSAY's symposium, most black 
students don't want to spend a large 
part of their undergraduate years 
educating those around them. 

Instead, they put most of their ener-
gy into making their own experience 
of life on campus the best it can be. 
"I don't like the looks I get or the 
way people react to me sometimes, 
but I don't feel like it's going to 
change 
anytime 
soon," 
said 
Mangum. "I do what I can to stop it, 
but I have to do what I came to do 
here. I can't let this stuff get in my. 
way." 

Emily Bazelon, a senior in Pierson 
College, is managing editor ofTNJ.


**Title: An Elusive Definition**
**Author: Joshua Civin**
**Page number(s): 15**

I
t's Friday afternoon outside Yale Station. As a student 
opens the door to the post office, she hears a persistent 
voice in her ear: "Are you Jewish? Are you Jewish?" A 
black hat, a beard, and a hand full of pamphlets stretch 
towards her. 

For Jewish Yale students, the question posed by the 
Lubavitcher Orthodox H asidic Jews who 
run the Mitzvah Tank underscores the 
dilemma of choosing how and whether 
they define themselves as Jews. Most stu-
dents spend time trying to integrate iden-
tity into community. Before Jewish stu-
dents can determine this, they must fig-
ure out what, after all, is a Jew. Certainly 
th:e term "Jewish" describes a member of 
a specific group. But is Jewish a religious, 
cultural, racial, or ethnic designation, or 
some combination thereof? Ever since 
Moses Simons (BA 1809) the first Jew to 
attend Yale, arrived on campus, the lives 
of Jewish students have reflected a variety 
of approaches to the question of Jewish 
identity. 

Historically, Jews have not always 
had the luxury of finding their own defi-
nition of Judaism. Instead, mainstream 
society, through both overt and implicit 
prejudice, imposed one on them. For 
many, the Holocaust stands as a devastat-
ing testament to social labelling of Jews. "If it had not been 
for the Nazis," said history professor Peter Gay, "if someone 
asked me if I was a Jew, I would have said no." Jean-Paul 
Sartre took this perspective to an extreme in his book Anti-
Semite and the jew. "If the Jew did not exist," he wrote, "the 
anti-Semite would invent 
him." 

As Yale, like American 
society, has become more 
accepting of different cultures, 
the luxury of tolerance has ere-
aced the difficult task of self-
definition. For many, Jewish 
identity involves more than a 
birthright. Rather, it rests on a conscious decision. "I defi-
nitely chink you can stop being Jewish by deciding it's not 
important to you any more," said Angela Warnick OE '94). 

"More important than having some Jewish blood is that 
you do things that show that you are Jewish." Some take 
Warnick's position a step further. Mitch Zacks (SM '95), 
Hillel Executive Committee Co-Coordinator, believes that 
to be Jewish, students must in some way affiliate themselves 
with the Jewish community. "I think if you are a Jew at 
Yale, you must at the very least come co 
the Kosher Kitchen once in your four 
years, '.' he said. "Or if not that, find 
some way to contribute to Jewish life on 
campus." 

Many ritually observant Jews like 
Zacks believe that the repetition of 
Jewish ceremony and worship sustains 
the identity of the group. Orthodox 
sects believe that only those who obey 
strict laws set out in the H ebrew Bible 
and Talmud count as true Jews. 

"Hasidim insist that either a Jew serves 
God and is mamish a Jew-really a 
Jew-or is a Jew awaiting full expression 
of his or her Judaism," said Rabbi James 
Ponet (TO '68). 

But Jews who do not follow tradi-
tional observances agree neither with 
this Orthodox argument nor with 
Zacks' minimalist standard. "As a reli-
gion, Judaism does not have a strong 
part in my life," said Beth Gardiner (PC 
'93). "But instinctively, I guess l would define myself as 
Jewish." Secular Jews tend to see Judaism as based on com-
mon culture, although they may not feel comfortable speci-
fying its parameters. 

To others, the concept of a cultural definicion of Judaism 
seems nonsensical. "I don't 
think I'm touched by 
Jewish culture at all," said 
Gay, who rarely goes to 
synagogue and who holds 
classes 
on 
the High 
H olidays, the holiest days 
of the Jewish year. 

For man~ common historical memory 
stands as the only strand of jewish 
identity that all jews can· share. 

If a broad notion of shared culture cannot bond all the 
divergent Jewish viewpoints and practices to{;ether, can 



**Title: The Jewish Identity at Yale**
**Author: Joshua Civin**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
race? Judaic studies professor Paula 
Hyman dismisses such a claim. "Not 
only is it disturbing that race was used 
as a club to destroy Jews," she said, 
"but you just have to go to Israel and 
see Jews not only from Ethiopia but 
from North Africa, the Middle East, 
the Soviet Union, and Western Europe 
to know that Jews do not constitute a 
raJ." 

However, the concept of Jewish 
identity as a product of biology still 
holds for some facers of Jewish prac-
tice. Because Judaism traditionally 
passes from mother to child, anyone 
with a Jewish mother can claim Israeli 
citizenship. Ponet, however, pointed 
out a limitation to using biology to 
define who is Jewish. "You can convert 
to becoming a Jew," he said. "You can-
not convert to becoming an Mrican-
American." 

For many, a common history 
stands as the only strand of Jewish 
identity that all Jews can share. 
"Avraham Enfeld once said that we 
consider that each of us personally 
received the ten commandments on 
Mr. Sinai," Warnick said. Shared 
memory, whether focused on the 
Holocaust, the Biblical Exodus, or 
even the aura of a childhood Passover 
Seder, ties Jews into what Hyman calls 
"a religio-ethnic legacy." 

But some Jews question whether 
the minimalist definition of a people 
linked by history can sustain modern 
Judaism. "Everyone has numerous 
identities, and if I have to prioritize, 
Judaism is the one I would place the 
most faith in," said Peter Beinart (BR 
'93) bur my Jewish identity feels a lit-
tle hollow. I have a much richer grasp 
of the intellectual components of 
being an American than of being a 
Jew." Others wonder whether Jewish 
continuity can rest on symbols of the 
past rather than a vibrant self-perpetu-
ating culture. "In contemporary 
America, secular Jewish identity has no 
structural basis," said Hyman. "We are 
losing touch with the identity of past
x6 THE Nsw JouRNAL 
generations, which was rooted in a cul-
ture that derived from Eastern Europe 
and was associated with the Yiddish 
language." 

0 
n the surface, Yale's Jewish 
community seems to defY any 
dire predictions of total 
assimilation. Ponet sees a positive con-
trast between today's university envi-
ronment and the Yale of his student 
days. "There were many Jews who 
were hidden," he said. "Today's Jewish 
students wouldn't think of shedding 
their Jewishness. It's a responsibility, 
an opportunity, and sometimes a bur-
den. But it's who they are." 

Nevertheless, the few visible 
Jewish campus activities create the illu-
sion that the Yale Jewish community 
has more active members than is actu-
ally the case. Some professors have 
noticed a trend away from broad par-
ticipation. ''A large group of Jews have 
become less involved while a small 
group of students has become more 
involved and more open about the 
assertion of their Jewishness," said 
Hyman. 

The small core of active Jews on 
campus provides the backbone for 
activities that range from the largely 
Jewish fraternity Alpha Epsilon Pi, to 
student groups like Yale Friends of 
Israel, to three different versions of 
Shabbat services. However, the majori-
ty of campus Jews do not participate 
in such organizations. "It disturbs me 
that there are perceived to be two 
groups of Jews on campus: secular 
Jews who see themselves as liberal and 
progressive, and those who are far 
more active in the Jewish community 
and more ethnic-centered," Beinart 
said. "I have friends who are still very 
uncomfortable going to the Kosher 
Kitchen because they feel their beliefs 
are not really accepted." 

Some Yalies who feel alienated in 
the HilJel setting express their Jewish 
values in other ways. "I don't think the 
religious life of the colJege is thriving, 
but I think the intellectual Jewish life 
definitely is," said Warnick. Many 
Jews investigate their heritage by tak-
ing courses in Jewish history; others 
express shared political views in the 
Liberal Parry of the Yale Political 
Union. For these Jews, involvement in 
Hillel-sponsored activities does not 


--- Page 17 ---

adequately measure a sense of identifi-
cation. 

The divisions in Yale's Jewish 
community largely arise from the 
evolving debate over the role that 
minority groups should play in the 
university. At the beginning of the 
century, Jews and white ethnics at Yale 
tried to gain acceptance by mastering 
the curriculum and the extra-curricu-
lar activities already in place. In con-
trast, the succeeding wave of non-
Western ethnic groups began to ques-
tion the very nature of the universiry 
curriculum. Today, secular Jews view 
ethnicity and religion as private mat-
ters, while an emerging group of more 
active and observant Jewish students 
promote the assertive concept of iden-
tity advocated by many students of 
eolor. 

These Jews support increased uni-
versity recognition of Jewish ethnicity. 
Some see the need for a Dean of 
Jewish students to represent the needs 
of Jews and mediate relationships in 
the community, like the other ethnic 
deans. They point out that Jews a_~ 
Yale do not have an activity space lik~ 
the cultural houses or a worship space 
that parallels the churches that Yale 
Christians attend. "Most on-campus 
Jewish activities take place in base-
ments," said Zacks. University dining 
halls also fail to cater to Jewish stu-
dents by not ,routinely providing 
kosher meals, so kosher students must 
eat at the student-run and donation-
supplemented kosher kitchen. "It is 
never easy to be a Jew," said Zacks. 
"But the university makes it harder." 

Others maintain that Jews as a 
group occupy a relatively comfortable 
position in the Yale community. "Jews 
are an established minority at Yale. 
We've arrived," said Ponet. "A minori-
ty by Yale's defmition is a group that is 
economically, socially, politically, and 
therefore educationally suffering and 
impoverished. But we've broken 
through those barriers.'~ 

Some look to the planned Joseph 
fEBRUARY 5• 1993 
Slifka Center for Jewish Life at Yale, 
scheduled to open in the fall of 1994, 
to bring together the disparate ele-
ments of Yale's Jewish community. "I 
believe it will provide a transformation 
(( T: Jews are an 
established minority 
at Yale. We've 
arrived, "said Rabbi 
j ames Ponet. 
of Jewish life in the most dramatic 
sense," said Ponet. "Corporately we are 
hidden at Yale as Jews. Our center will 
be the place where the living fruits of 
Judaism will be accessible to every-
one." Some students hope the center 
will provide a social focus for Yale's 
Jewish community-a place that will 
be comfortably and inclusively Jewish. 
"There's a lot of fragmentation in the 
communiry because all of the activities 
take place.separately," said Warnick. 
"Having a center will unify the groups 
and maybe people will finally start to 
hang out together." 

The hope, uncertainty, struggle, 
and conflict that Jewish students 
express point to their attempts to con-
struct a modern ethnicity. As Jewish 
students w.resde to find their own 
sense of Jewish identity, some also 
teach classes at the religious school run 
by Yale Hillel. The priorities and 
work of the undergraduate teachers 
provide a clue to the shape that their 
Judaism will take. "We try to give the 
kids a sense of the fun and intellectual 
excitement which is what Judaism 
really should be about," said Adam 
Shear (SY '93). But "what Judaism is 
really about" remains naggingly open-
ended. 

18) 
joshua Civin, a freshperson in Calhoun 
Colkge, is associate production manager 
ojTNJ. 


**Title: The Dating Game**
**Author: Suzanne Kim**
**Page number(s): 18**

ian-American students who date interracially are 
bombarded by competing pressures. On one side lie 
acial stereotypes. On the ocher stands the disap-
proval of fellow Asian-Americans, many of whom believe 
that members of their community should date exclusively 
within their ethnic group. 

A recent article in GQ maga-
zine calls the Asian-American 
woman "the ultimate accesso-
ry." Statements like these 
contribute co the image of 
Asian-American women as 
submissive and sexually pas-
sive, says an Asian-American 
student. 

" People think that 
they're the perfect sex partners," 
she said, adding that some men deliber-
ately seek out Asian-American women for that reason. 
"They have Asian woman fetishes. In my Japanese lan-
guage classes I met men who talk abo t 'conquering Japan' 
and how they want 
to 
marry 
Japanese 
women," 
she 
said 
"They; 
t 
a I k 
about 
h 0 
w 
they'd 
e a II y 
like to go 
work 
tn 
Japan 
and 
meet geisha. 
This is typical 
fare from white 
guys in the classroom." 

Awareness of these pre-
conceptions has created suspi-
cion in the minds of some Asian-
American women. "I'm wary 
because I'd rather not be objectified," 
said Anne Lin (ES '95). Her caution 
extended to the initial stages of her pre-
sent interracial relarionsrup. "I wasn't sure if 
18 TH£ NEW JouRNAL 
he liked me because of me, or because I 
was Asian," she said. 

Jack Hasegawa, general secretary of Dwight Hall, notes 
an imbalance in the gender ratio of interracial couples, 
blaming the pressures put on men to iniriate dating for the 
fewer number of Asian-American men who date outside of 
their race. "There's an external message from white society 
that says, 'We're not sure about you, we don't want you to 
cross the racial line in dating,"' he said. "For an Asian-
American woman to go out with a white guy means she got 
asked. But if an Asian-American guy goes around asking 
white girls out, you're going to run into trouble." 

Lin attributes the imbalance to society's conventional 
measures of attractiveness. "I think Asian-American women 
fit the white standard of beauty more perfecdy than Asian 
men because most Asian women are petite with small bone 
structure and high cheek bones," she said. "But Asian men 
are generally smaller chan white men, and that wouldn't be 
considered as beautiful." 

The mainstream media has translated the physical char-
acteristics of the Asian-American male into a prototype of 
asexuality, explained Quentin Lee (GRD '93). A director of 
several independent fUms, Lee counters the desexualization 
of the Asian-American male in Anxi~ty of ln~prmion and 
th~ Oth~rn~ss Machin~. In his film, Lee presents the Asian-
American man as one who wants and enjoys sex by tracing 
his relationship with his biracial male lover. "My video 
responds to the mainstream media desexualization of the 
Asian male," he said. "Asian males are portrayed in rather 
desexualized roles, which obviously creates a sense of anxi-
ety and a need to become resexualized in the western mas-
culine stereotype." 

But Lee's film practically stands alone. Hollywood pro-
ductions rarely focus on the love interests of Asian-
American male characters. Hasegawa points to Th~ Karau 
Kid movie series as one of Hollywood's recent attempts to 
tread the ground of Asian-American romance. The 
moviemakers suddenly imbue the previously asexual Mr. 
Miagi with a desire for romance, but only after he returns to 
his native Japan. "In order for him to have a love interest, 
they have to fly him from Los Angeles to Okinawa to meet a 
woman who greets him wearing a kimono. If you've ever been 
to Okinawa, you'd know that the number of women who 
wear kimono is very small. But it's the only way that Pat 
Morita can have a relationship with a woman," said 
Hasegawa, a Japanese-American who has himself challenged 
FEBRUARY 5, 1993 



**Title: Interracial Dating on Campus**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the traditional plodine by marrying a white woman. 

Like their female counterparts, Asian-American 
men get pegged as passive and submissive. "If you go 
to this gay bar in San Francisco, it's basically just white 
men picking up on Asian men," said Lee. "Certainly the 
stereotype out there is that Asian men are more passive." 

Some blame the media representation of Asian-American 
men for creating sexual stereotypes. "A lot of white gay men 
are looking for passive, submissive men and they think that 
Asian men will be that. The media representation makes 
them appear passive," said a white student who is dating an 
Asian-American man. 

Pressures from peer groups can force Asian-Americans 
who date interracially to choose between their ethnicity 
and their relationships. As a result, resentment of 
stereotypes adds to a fear of betraying their race. Some Asian-
American women believe that men who react negatively co 
interracial relationships do so because' they feel threatened. 
"The first time I went to a KASY [Korean-American 
Students at Yale] meeting, I overheard a man saying that he 
adamantly believed that Asian women should not be 
dating non-Asian men because it made Asian men feel 
inferior," said Jeannie Rhee (TC '94). 

Another Asian-American student active in the Asian-
American community at Yale has found it particularly diffi-
cult to balance her personal life and her politics. "When I 
first started dating someone white, I had a lot of personal 
problems," she said. "I thought that in order to be political-
ly active and aware, my personal life had to fit in with my 
politics. I ended up realizing that I have a right co be happy 
and that I don't have to live my life according to a straight 
identity politics line." 

Rhee, who is also dating a white man, does not feel that 
she must make a choice between her allegiance to her race 
and her interracial social life. "I don't feel like my relation-
ship in any way hinders my expression of my own identity 
and eth.nicity," said Rhee. She does not have close ties to the 
Asian-American community at Yale, in part because of 
remarks like the one she heard at the KASY meeting. "Those 
attitudes make me hesitant about the way I would fit in, 
regardless of my relationship," she said. 

Some Asian-American students who date interracially 
have discovered that prejudice can be implicit as well as overt. 
To them, the attitude that race plays no role in interracial 
relationships seems like passive racism. "In a lot of ways I'm 
fEBRUARY 5, 1993 
afraid that people are so accepting of my 
relationship because they don't perceive 
me to be 'Asian,'" Rhee said. "The accept-
ability and respectability comes from the fact 
that I don't have very close ties to the Asian com-
munity here." 

Rhee believes that the interracial nature of relationships 
cannot be ignored. "I think you can go too far in the other 
direction, where people can be blind to the fact that I'm 
Asian, or that they are dealing with an interracial couple," she 
said. "In a lot of ways it defines who we are as a couple, and it 
defines who I am as a person." 

Some students claim that race does not factor into their 
dealings with each other or with their peer groups. Rachael 
Nevins (BK '95), a white woman who is dating an Asian-
American man, said, "The difference in race has never been a 
problem in any real way. It's not something that 
I really think about." 

...o~~~~~!llll•!!!•ll!!!...:,. 
But for others, their 
t c a 
nature 
against their 
will. "I'm not 
going out with 
him as a political 
statement," 
Rhee 
said. "It's unfortunate 
that it has to be perceived 
that way." 


Suzanne Kim, a fr~shp~on in Saybrook Colleg~. is on th~ suzff 
ojTNJ. 
THE NEw jOURNAL 19 



---

**Title: A Pledge to Belong**
**Author: John Gorham**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

Being in a black sorority is like being in a family. 
You are not constantly reminded that you are a 
woman or that you are black," said Julia Gore 
(CC '93), president of the black sorority Alpha Kappa 
Alpha. The structure of a black sorority gave Gore what her 
life at Yale lacked. Yet the concept of ethnic fraternities and 
sororities remains unfamiliar and at times controversial to 
the majority of white students. At best, most have a hazy 
sense of these low-profile organizations, which include a 
Jewish fraternity, a Latino fraternity and sorority, three 
black fraternities, and two black sororities. Members of 
these organizations defend ethnic fraternities and sororities 
as support mechanisms in an environment often hostile to 
their needs. However, other students claim that ethnic 
greek organizations encourage a separatist mentality among 
both members and non-members. 

In contrast to their non-ethnic counterparts, ethnic fra-
ternities and sororities emphasize community service over 
social drinking. "You're not supposed to get drunk with 
your pin on," said one sorority sister. A separate national 
governing body administers the black organizations. 
Frequently members belong to New Haven chapters com-
posed of a variety of surrounding schools. The role ethnic 
greek organizations play in their ethnic community on the 
Yale campus and in the larger Yale student population, how-
ever, most distinguishes them from other fraternities and 
sororities. 

To m~ny members, joining an ethnic fraternity or 
sorority provides a niche in a university environment they 
find indifferent. Diahann Billings (ES '94) of Alpha Kappa 
Alpha claims that as a black woman, white students often 
pigeonhole her views. "For instance, it's commonly thought 
that black women are pro-choice,,. she said. "But your 
sorority sisters would not assume that about you." 

M'Balia Singley (SY '94) believes that Yale offers few 
opportunities for women to bond intensely. Women of 
color, according to Singley, especially need this outlet. 
"People of color here are very thirsty," she said. "They need 
places where they can vent their creative talents-where 
people respect them totally on the basis of their intellect." 

While Singley chose not to belong to a black sorority 
because she found her own support system within the cam-
pus artS community, she sympathizes with women who feel 
a need to join. 

Lambda Upsilon Lambda, a Latino fraternity estab-
lished last year, tries to foster support and ethnic identity in 
20 THE NEW JouRNAL 
much the same way as black sororities. During the rush 
process, pledges incorporate Spanish and pre-Columbian 
symbolism into their activities, frequently in the form of 
chants and songs. 

The Lambdas also envision their fraternity as a way to 
unite the entire Latino community and create a dialogue 
with the larger Yale student population. LUL, in addition 
to being the abbreviation of the fraternity, also stands for 
c'La Unidad Latino," the Latino Unity. Geoff Heredia (CC 
'93), one of the founding members, finds this goal elusive in 
a Latino com-
munity that fre-
quently divides 
along national, 
language, 
and 
class lines. Both 
Chicanos 
Puerto Ricans, 
for 
example, 
have 
separate 
student groups. 

Heredia believes 
LUL can share 
goals with the 
two 
organiza-
tions, especially 
in .regards to eth-
nic diversity in 
the curriculum, 
faculty, and stu-
dent body, and 
also represent the 
entire 
Latino 
community. 
"We want to 
work with every-
one," he said. 
"We don't want to isolate ourselves from Yale. We want to 
be an integral part of this university." 

Like traditional greek organizations, ethnic fraternities 
and sororities place a great emphasis on close ties among the 
members. "I know I can always count on my brothers," 
said Kassem Lucas (TC '94), a member of the black frater-
nity Kappa Alpha Psi. "My bond with my brothers is much 
stronger than any other relationship I have at Yale." Other 
black fraternity members, like Keith Price (PC '94) of
FEBRUARY 5• 1993 

Members claim rhat the hazing in black fraternities, 
also called "going on line," forges a sense of brotherhood. 
Banned in 1990 by the national black greek council, going 
on line often involved whippings, beatings, and social pro-
bation in which members did nor speak to anyone except 
their fellow pledges and rhe brothers of the fraternities. 

While all black fraternities officially accept the ban, the 
practice continues in certain fraternities at Yale, albeit more 
secretly. One 
brother 
said 
chat 
he 
opposed 
the 
ban because it 
prevented the 
new members 
of the fraterni-
ty from devel-
. 
opmg a umque 
shared experi-
ence that has 
· historical 
meaning. 
"The ten origi-
naL 
brothers 
who founded 
my fraternity 
in the early 
1900's were the 
only blacks on 
campus," he 
said. "No one 
would talk to 
them anyway." 

T h e 
Latino fraterni-
ty, LUL, also has a stringent rush process. LUL puts pledges 
on social probation that forbids non-essential conversations 
in public, although no hazing or branding occurs. "We 
don't demean our pledges," said Heredia. "We're not here 
to break them down.'' 

While the intake process may be a positive experience 
for fraternity members, some non-members believe the 
practice leads to separatism. Adam Marks (BK '95), a mem-
ber of the non-ethnic fraternity Beta Theta Pi. recognizes 
F!ARUARY 5· 1993 
~ 
the importance of ethnic greek life for its members, yet sees g 
LUL's social probation process as a needless attempt to i' 
alienate him from friends who wanted to pledge the frater- ~ 
nity. "They are hazing the Yale community at large--defy-¢: 
ing any attempt at unity on the Yale campus," he said. 

]. 
<3 
L
eas believes that white students, not students of~ 
color, segregate themselves. He explains that whites i-
arely come to any of the parties or lectures sponsored~ 
by the fraternity. "I don't think there is a relationship ~ 
between black fraternities and sororities and the larger Yale"'<: 
community,, said Lucas. "I don't think people take the time 
to figure out what we do." He considers the exclusion issue 
a matter of personal preference. "There's no exclusion," 
Lucas said. "I encourage anyone who wants to join the orga-
nization and who is dedicated to the fraternity to rush. It 
doesn't matter what color you are." However, no white has 
rushed the Yale chapter of Kappa Alpha Psi since its incep-
tion in 1985. 

Some students of color see ethnic fraternities as unnec-
essarily exclusionary and secretive, evenin the black com-
munity. One student recalled attending an Alpha Phi 
Alpha party Jast year with a lot of black fresh people. "There 
was this big group of Alphas hanging out and dancing by 
themselves," he said. "Then there was everybody else just 
waiting to see the step show." The student compared this 
party to a Kappa Alpha Psi party he attended at Wesleyan 
where blacks and whites came in equal numbers. "Inside it 
was booming, and you could tell that was the place to be 
that night on campus," he said. "It was kind of like one of 
those big Yale parties that everyone goes to--like the Safety 
Dance or the Saybrook Courtyard Party.'' 

The student said he does not want to join a black fra-
ternity because he sees them as removed from the Yale stu-
dent body and even from the black student community. 
Statistics from the Registrar's office support his claim. Of 
the 157 black males on the campus, 15, according to Lucas, 
have joined black fraternities. The New Haven chapter of 
Omega Psi Phi has only one member on the Yale campus. 

The predominately Jewish fraternity Alpha Epsilon Pi 
appears the most casual in its treatment of the issue of eth-
nic identity. lcs members acknowledge that Jews do not 
share the embattled status of other ethnic groups on cam-
pus. "For Jews to come to Yale is not a big deal," said AE Pi 
brother Mike lchenwald (SM '95). "I don't think that you 
can see yourself as a Jew and a minority at Yale." He esti-
THE NEw JoUllNAL 21 



**Title: Integration Remembered**
**Author: Erik Meers**
**Page number(s): 24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
From 1701 to 1870, Yale remained a whites-only institution. After the admission of the first black undergraduate, for decades only a handful more followed. In the early 60s, Yale inched up the number of blacks to several per class, and by the end of the decade, as national consciousness focused upon such racial inequality, the university began to recruit actively. The stories below come from three African-American men who attended Yale at different periods during its transformation from white bastion to integrated institution. 


Growing up in New Haven, Levi Jackson (DC '50) always thought of Yale as the place where the rich kids went to school. Yale seemed unreachable not because he was black and virtually all Yalies were white, but because Yale students seemed so smart and wealthy. But Jackson's football coach at Hillhouse High School convinced him to apply to Yale. 


Yale accepted Jackson, and he deferred enrollment to serve in World War II. When he entered in 1946, the G.I. Bill financed $500 of his $600 tuition. To save money, Jackson lived at home in Westville and took the trolley to campus each morning. He made the varsity football team as a freshman and divided his time between practice, study, and work. While his teammates dined at the "training table," which served special meals to athletes, Jackson waited tables in Commons to pay for his meals. 


Jackson's excitement in attending Yale screened out some of the racism he encountered. "I went around in a daze. I never realized I'd be a student at Yale. It was like a fairy tale," said Jackson. "Everybody was good until they proved themselves bad." The kindness ofJackson's classmates also insulated him from some ugly racial incidents. One Saturday night in his senior year, Jackson took his wife to a fraternity dance. When an alumnus of the fraternity saw Jackson talking with some teammates, the man started moving toward him, saying, 'I'm gonna get that nigger.' Jackson's teammates formed a circle around him. As several football players escorted the man out, Jackson went on talking, unaware of what had happened. He did not even know about the incident until his wife told him as they left the dance. 


Jackson only began to feel truly part ofYale in his senior year, when he became the first black man tapped by three senior societies: Skull and Bones, Scroll and Key, and Berzelius. "I was told that if you were tapped by Skull and Bones you automatically got a $10,000-a-year job, but I wanted to earn my own way," said Jackson. He chose Berzelius. 


"Being in the society gave me the feeling that I belonged. I felt that I was finally getting the real Yale experience." 


In the early 60s, as national attention focused on legal discrimination in Southern school systems, Ivy League universities recognized that their admissions policies paralleled segregation. Admissions officers started to look tentatively for black applicants from the best inner-city public schools. At the same time, the first African-American students to attend prestigious prep schools began to apply to Yale. 


When Ronnie Wilmore (ES '65) entered Yale as one of four black students in his class, Yale's tiny black population shocked him. But unlike Jackson, Wilmore did have a small black peer group, and he quickly bonded with the other blacks in his class. Rather than feeling star-struck by Yale, Wilmore's black classmates wanted to change the institution. Together they lobbied to pick up the glacial pace of Yale's integration efforts. "The mere fact that there were four of us in a class was as racist as you could get," said Wilmore. The black students brought their concerns to then President A. Whitney Griswold. "We told Griswold that it wasn't right that at a great university like Yale there were only four blacks representing only two cities in our class," he recalled. 


While Wilmore and one of his roommates grew up in poor families, the other two came from middle-class backgrounds not that different from many white students at Yale. Income levels aside, the four found the bond of race to be a powerful uniting force, and they lived together in Ezra Stiles College after their freshman year. Their decision to room together demonstrated their need for solidarity. "We felt that we had no choice," said Wilmore. 


Throughout his time at Yale, Wilmore sensed that blacks seemed foreign to most Yale undergraduates. "These folks saw black people in the kitchen and cleaning up, but they did not see them as equals," he said. After growing up poor in New Haven, Wilmore found that his experience at Yale held special meaning. His dorm in Stiles stood just minutes away from the housing project where his mother lived. He went home frequently to see her and often bumped into her on the street. "Once I was on my way to Payne Whitney Gym, and I saw my mother waiting to catch the bus on Broadway. She had just gotten back from cleaning some white woman's home. I stopped, hugged, and kissed her," recalled Wilmore. "That was one of the few


**Title: Against the Tide**
**Author: joshua Auerbach**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
At a Black Student Alliance at Yale (BSAY) debate held during the Clarence Thomas confirmation hearings, one law student excoriated the judge as a "traitor to his race" for his unabashedly conservative stance on issues of civil rights and affirmative action and for his marriage to a white woman. Thomas, who has generally lived up to his advance billing as a true movement conservative, has left many in the black community with the bitter taste of betrayal in their mouths. His high visibility has focused attention on the precarious position of black intellectuals who dissent from the social and political views of the black community's established leadership. 

For the minority of black students at Yale who agree in part with Thomas' approach, and even for those who simply supported his nomination so that the black community would have a voice on the Supreme Court, the confirmation hearings caused a certain amount of personal discomfort. "The Thomas hearings clarified rifts that already existed in the black community," said Richard Forde (PC '93). 

These rifts, however, do not run along a simplistic ideological divide between "conservatives" and "liberals." Rather, they represent a series of extremely blurry lines that vaguely differentiate positions on several issues. While the number of black Yalies who identify themselves as "conservative" is extraordinarily small (none of the students interviewed for this article, for example, consider themselves conservative), many who see themselves as moderate or even liberal-leaning nonetheless find themselves on the "wrong" side of one of these blurry lines. These students claim that the attitude of Yale's black community toward those whose views diverge from the majority can often be inhospitable and occasionally exclusionary. The pressure to conform, according to some, effectively stifles a great deal of debate. "The dissenting black intellectual can expect ostracism; and the predictable effect of the ostracism is to discourage freedom of thought," Law professor Stephen Carter wrote in his book Reflections of an Affirmative Action Baby. 

Career argues that in recent years affirmative action has become a sort of litmus test to determine one's loyalty to the race. "The single proposition on which dissent seems to be intolerable is the proposition of affirmative action," Career said. Many black students involved in the black community's organized activities do not always feel welcome when they do attend community events. "There is a very suspicious attitude toward those who don't take part in community activities," Kurzweil said. A whole vocabulary of epithets-Uncle Tom, incognnegro, oreo--exists to refer to blacks who either dissent politically or who socialize primarily outside the black community. "I have friends who have been hurt by that and as a result don't associate with the black community," Forde said. Forde himself remembers a time when a black friend told him that a third student in the black community, someone that Forde did not know, expressed surprise that he and Forde were close. "I'm surprised Richard speaks to you," the third student said. "The word is that he doesn't associate with the black community." A phrase like "doesn't associate with the black community," Forde said, is often a euphemism for "Uncle Tom." 

BSAY co-moderator David Bradley (YC '94) acknowledged that ostracism like this occurs at Yale, but claimed that black students have become increasingly aware of the damage that these epithets can cause. "The black community is becoming sensitive to this," he said. "We are trying to become more inclusive." Orlando Bishop (PC '94), writing in Say It Loud, the BSAY newsletter, proposed a move to a more tolerant black community. "What is solidified


---

**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Erik Mann**
**Page number(s): 25**

Lroi jackson (DC '50) was the first black captain of the Yale football team. 
times I had this funny feeling of how different being at Yale 
was for me." 
When Linus Clark became admissions director in the late 60s, 
he brought an entirely new philosophy to minority admissions. 
Clark dramatically increased the number of black students per 
class, favoring black applicants from segregated and urban 
schools who showed academic promise but who would not have 
traditionally received attention. During Clark's tenure, Yale 
also admitted several Asian-Americans in each class and 
became more diverse in both racial and socioeconomic terms. 
After attending a predominantly Jewish high school in New 
York, Willie Coleman (SM '73) had experience with being 
in the minority. When Coleman came to Yale, he expected 
to find a bastion of white male elitism. "I thought I would 
have wealthy roommates," said Coleman. "But my roommates 
were all white middle class. I think that made me 
more comfortable." 
Coleman's year had the largest number of blacks ever in a 
single class. For the first time, black Yalies could form social 
groups in significant numbers. Coleman joined support systems 
for black students like the Afro-American Cultural 
Center and the Black Student Alliance at Yale (BSAY), organizations that gave him a familiar environment. "Most blacks 
felt outside of the cultural mainstream," said Coleman. "It 
was something that you felt every day. It could range from 
how people danced, what people talked about, how they 
dressed, or what they did for vacation. Other black students 
were just the people whom I felt most comfortable with." 
After his freshman year, Coleman changed residential colleges 
so that he could room with a black classmate. 
In the spring of 1970, Coleman's freshman year, racial 
issues dominated the Yale campus. Two members of the Black 
Panthers went on trial for the murder of a police informant, 
and thousands of demonstrators planned to descend on New 
Haven for a rally on May Day. Members of black radical 
groups had threatened to blow up Yale buildings. Violence 
seemed inevitable, and most of Yale's student body didn't 
know how to react. "I think that most white undergraduates 
wanted to be sympathetic," recalled Coleman, "but they were 
just confused by the whole situation." 
The Afro-American Cultural Center became the focal 
point for black students' involvement in the crisis as they 
organized a student strike in support of the Panthers. 
Coleman remembers the tension on campus as he ate breakfast 
with his girlfriend on the morning of May Day. "A 
group of white students were sitting at a table next to us 
and asked us to come over and explain the situation to 
them. We were tired and said 'no.' The white students actually 
got angry at us," said Coleman. "It was as if we owed it 
to them to explain what was going on." May Day passed 
without violence, but in Coleman's view, the crisis did little 
to shake up racial attitudes at Yale. 

This fall the Association of Yale Alumni asked Lroi Jackson to 
speak at a panel discussion at the Yale Club of New York. He 
arrived in New York the day before and stayed the night at the 
Yale Club. Before the meeting, Jackson went to the airport to catch 
a flight home only to find that it had been canceled because of a 
storm. When Jackson returned to the Yale Club, a doorman, 
unaware that Jackson was a Yale alumnus, interrupted him 
before he could reach the check-in desk. The doorman demanded 
to know what Jackson wanted. When Jackson asked for a room, 
the doorman shouted that none were available. Jackson left without 
arguing. 

Erik Mann is a senior in Branford College, is on the staff of TNJ. 



**Title:  Thanks**
**Author:  Various**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Thanks 
Barbara Ames • lvo Banac 
Stephanie Brenowitz 
CT Afro-Am Hist. Society 
Monica Drake 
English 454a 
Anoka Faruqee 
Kimberly Goff-Crews 
John Gorham 
Jack Hasegawa 
Claudia Highbaugh • HANH 
Sarah Johnson • John Kim 
Mayor's Office 
Mike Morand 
New Haven Public Library 
Pierson College 
Matthew Pillsbury 
M'B Singley • Sam Slie 
Crystal Marie Smith 
Fred Strebeigh 
Frederick J. Streets 
Shana Waterman 


**Title: Not in Their Back Yards**
**Author: David Gerber**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

N
ew Haven's latest attempt to geographically deseg-
regate public housing ended last fall in a heap of 
ashes. On Sept. 18 and Oct. 26, arsonists destroyed 
two houses the Housing Authority of New Haven (HANH) 
had purchased in Morris Cove-an almost entirely white, 
well-to-do community in the New Haven's East Shore 
area-as part of scattered-site housing, a plan that aims to 
get public housing out of the inner-city and distribute it 
throughout the rest ofNew Haven. 

Many scattered-site housing supporters have attributed 
the arsons to racism, which they believe has fueled opposi-
tion to the plan from the start. They charge that the resi-
dents of Morris Cove-who have fought bitterly against 
scattered-site housing since HANH purchased a number of 
homes there in October 1991-have opposed the plan 
because it would bring people of color to their neighbor-
hood. Mayor John Daniels called the torchings "racially 
motivated acts of terror." Public-housing tenants agreed. 
"People are doing in blue jeans what they used to do in 
white hoods. That's the only difference," said tenant 
Minnie Anderson. 

Morris Cove residents contest the accusations, insisting 
that they have rejected public-housing relocation for eco-
nomic reasons. They claim that the fact that 
minorities make up about 90 percent of 
New Haven's public-housing population 
has nothing to do with their opposition. 
"Take the word 'racist' out of the debate," 
said Alderman Chris DePino (R-14), who 
points out that some middle-class blacks 
have joined him in attacking the project. 
"Our argument is against the plan, not 
against the people." 

At a rally for peace held in Morris Cove 
shortly after the last arson occurred, howev-
er, the rhetoric seemed racially heated and 
personally accusatory. As civil-rights 
activists, local politicians, and public-hous-
ing tenants condemned the arsons, Morris 
Cove homeowners, who had not been allot-
ted speaking time, lashed out at them. "I 
pay for you!" one woman yelled at a tenant, 
and mutterings of "welfare princess" floated 
through the gathering. 

"I heard a lot of 'they people,' 'them 
people,' and 'you people,' " recalled 
ff.BRUARY S• 1993 
Anderson. " 'They're dirty. They're all on welfare. Their kids 
don't go to school.'" Local NAACP President Haywood 
Hooks, Jr., who organized the event, blamed the remarks on 
racially-based prejudices. "Whenever people show the color 
of their skin and they're turned down before they have a 
chance to present themselves, as far as I'm concerned the 
judgments are based on racism," he said. 

Alderman DePino, a prominent New Haven 
Republican who represents Morris Cove in the state legisla-
ture, defends his constituents. He asserts that the bitter 
comments made at the rally come from radicals on the 
fringe. For most Morris Cove residents, he says, race plays 
no part in the scattered-site issue, which he says is a purely 
economic one. 

But historically speaking, racial intolerance has played 
an ugly role in Morris Cove. A community of about 1,400 
families, only one of which is black, this Italian-American 
stronghold resists any threat to its homogeneity. As recently 
as the early 1980s, residents compelled a black family to 
leave by bombarding them with racial insults and vandaliz-
ing their home. At about the same time, a black member of 
a Morris Cove-based band faced a dangerous situation every 
time he came to the area to practice. The other band mem-
bers had to call their neighbors before-
hand to tell them not to destroy the 
man's car. DePino insists that this big-
otry has ended. "It was a dark chapter 
in the community's history," he said, 
"and it's behind us." 

S 
ince the 1970s, the Department 
of 
Housing 
and 
Urban 
Development 
(HUD) 
has 
required that all new public-housing 
units be placed in non-impacted 
areas-that is, in areas that do not g 
already have high concentrations of! 
public housing. The decision sought to ~ 
provide public-housing tenants with~ 
adequate services-from law enforce- i;; 
ment to education to transportation-l 
that they may not receive in the ghet- ~ 
ros. 

1 
Opposition has plagued this]. 
desegregation effort since its inception.""' 
In Boston, arson fires raged both ~ .. 
TH£ New jouRNAL 29

---

l before and after public-housing ten-
~ ants moved into predominantly white, 
~ affluent neighborhoods. And the citi-
~ z.ens of Yonkers thwarted attempts to 
l bring public housing to their city with 
~ a court injunction in 1991 that 
~ blocked a federally imposed housing 
~ desegregation order. 

E 
New Haven's woes began with the 
11988 destruction of the Elm Haven 
..( high rises, a 366-unit public-housing 
development that HANH deemed 
substandard. A 1988 law required a 
one-for-one replacement of the elimi-
nated units. Section Eight, a private 
landlord-driven program, took care of 
half of the tenants, and the housing 
authority began the search for the 
remaining 183 units it needed, which 
had to be in non-impacted areas. 

But the housing authority did not 
purchase a single unit for the next 
three years. In 1991, New Haven 
Legal Assistance sued the authority on 
behalf of a handful of disgruntled ten-
ants and Christian Community 
Action-a grass-roots, tenant-interest 
organization-alleging that through 
continued foot-dragging the authority 
had failed to meet tenant needs. 

Officials at HANH attributed their 
sluggish progress to difficulty in find-
ing units that satisfied health codes 
and other requirements. But Legal 
Assistance attorney Shelly White 
believes the authority's reluctance to 
trigger vehement opposition by plac-
ing public housing in affluent, white 
communities led to the three-year 
delay. 

With Legal Assistance's litigation 
pending, the authority began to pur-
chase private single-family houses in 
non-impacted areas like Morris Cove 
and Wesrville. At the same time, it ini-
tiated a rigorous screening and educa-
tion process to find suitable families 
for the dwellings. Almost immediately 
public hearings on the acquisitions 
became battlefields, with screaming 
matches and threats of physical vio-
lence between groups of Morris Cove 
homeowners and public-housing ten-
ants. Sensing a political nightmare, 
most aldermen avoided the increasing-
ly touchy issue, as did Connecticut's 
senators and representatives. Mayor 
Daniels tried unsuccessfully to straddle 
the fence on the matter, alienating 
both sides by agreeing with the con-
cept of scattered-site housing but not 
supponing the plan's current form. 

Like the mayor, New Haven's 
housing authority has become a target 
i~ the struggle. Discontented tenants 
c'People are doing in 
blue jeans what they 
used to do in white 
hoods." 
and New Haven homeowners alike 
consider the authority a corrupt, irre-
sponsible agency. "The housing 
authority is very inept, totally inept, 
not even marginally inept," said 
DePino, likening money in its posses-
sion to car keys in the hands of a 
drunk. Indeed, the authority's short-
comings have not remained a secret. A 
recent HUD audit found $800,000 in 
misused funds, and the federal bureau 
has placed New Haven in the number 
two spot on its nationallist•of troubled 
housing authorities. 

H
omeowners in Morris Cove 
argue that such a wasteful and 
incompetent housing author-
ity cannot possibly run a scattered-site 
plan successfully. Single-family homes 
require more upkeep than convention-
al public-housing complexes, they say, 
and the authority does not even do a 
satisfactory job with its current units. 
They fear a drop in surrounding prop-
erty values may come about because of 
negligent maintenance of the scat-
tered-site units. Opponents also cite 
the fact that every home the housing 
authority buys for public use comes off 
the city's tax roll, thereby increasing the 
fiscal burden on remaining homeown-
ers, though no one in Morris Cove ever 
expressed this concern before HANH 
planned to place public housing in 
their neighborhood. With a recent 50 
percent property tax hike eating into 
their pocketbooks, many homeowners 
already question their ability to remain 
in New Haven if the stifling rates con-
tinue to rise. "It's purely an economic 
issue," said Bill Grego, a Morris Cove 
resident for 17 years. 

DePino says his objections to scat-
tered-site liousing represent the best 
interests of public-housing residents. 
He prefers a home-ownership plan, 
which he believes would provide a bet-
ter deal for them. "These are false 
opportunities. The real opportunity is 
to get out of public housing, and that's 
owning your own home," he said. 

DePino also points out that a home-
ownership program would keep houses , 
on the tax roll. 

But these "economic" concerns 
cannot camouflage the underlying feel-
ings of many Morris Cove residents. 
They consider the plan-· -which places 
. public-housing tenants in decent, siz-
able dwellings-unfair. "My wife and I 
have almost five jobs between the two 
of us. This is how we manage to live in 
a single-family home, and it's becom-
ing harder and harder to do it," said 
homeowner Grego. "It's difficult to 
imagine that I'm striving to do this 
while the city of New Haven wants to 
buy single-family homes and complete-
ly hand over possession of them to 
non-working people. I feel that anyone 
who wants to enjoy the lifestyle I do 
should go about it the same way." 

Grego also notes that to him and 
most of his neighbors, public-housing 
residents mean an influx of inner-city 
problems such as drugs and crime. "We 
want to get away &om downtown," he 
said. "People imagine that what exists 
in the city will somehow exist in 
Morris Cove." 



**Title: Concerns about Scattered-Site Housing**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Grego's concerns typify homeowners' attitudes, which infuriates public-housing tenant Anderson. 
"The community is so ignorant. I try not to get angry, but I can't help it," she said. One of the "nonworking people" who applied for a scattered-site unit, the 44-year-old Anderson has been a criminal investigator for Legal Assistance for several years. Together with her daughter, who works at the U.S. Surgical factory in North Haven, and her grandson, she lives in a townhouse in the Waverly housing development, a privilege that costs her $718 a month in rent. 

Stories like Anderson's come as a surprise to most middle-class homeowners, who assume that public housing comes free to a largely lazy, unemployed tenant population. Middle-class homeowners also believe public housing inevitably falls into disrepair. 

Anderson believes that racial stereotypes inspire misconceptions. "You can fix up every housing development in New Haven and make it look like a mansion, and as long as you have minorities you're still going to have the same perception of the people," she said. 

Alderman DePino, who regularly distributes anti-scattered-site housing pamphlets throughout Morris Cove, denies that the color of public-housing tenants matters to him or his constituents. He continually reasserts that their quarrel is with the housing authority, not the people it serves. 
"The housing authority is making it an 'us' versus 'them' issue so they can deflect the focus from taxes, their incompetence, and all the other issues," he said. However, DePino's case against the authority brings the issue of race into the fore. "I think the real way to solve the problem in the housing authority is to let more non-minority people run the place," he said. "The housing authority is run by minorities. And they haven't done a good job. They can't see the forest through the trees." 

The Morris Cove arsons, no matter how they are explained away, have sent scattered-site housing applicants a clear message: Stay out. As a result, applicants like Anderson question whether the move is worth it. "People believed that public housing was just a temporary stop until they were able to do better and move out on their own," Anderson explained. "Then they hear about torched houses and think, 'Maybe we're supposed to live here forever.' They stop looking for other places because this is the safest." 

Scattered-site opponents have also felt the heat. "The arsons were absolutely reprehensible," said DePino, and most Morris Cove residents agree. 
DePino regrets the unproven assumption that someone from Morris Cove committed the crime, as it has branded his community as racist. "It gave the proponents of the plan a great propaganda tool," he remarked. 

As local, state, and federal officials continue to investigate the fires, the housing authority promises to push on with the scattered-site plan. Program supporters accept that the violence may continue, but they refuse to let it derail their plans. "This is what tenants want," said Legal Assistance's White. "I don't think the answer is to give up and not place the houses there. We would never have had a civil rights movement had we stopped at the threat of physical violence."


**Title: Saving the City's Soul**
**Author: Jose Manuel Tesoro**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

The first things one notices are the hats. A velvet beret, with a gold cockade, bobs in the pew ahead, while a vermillion, wide-brimmed affair trailing black netting sways near a smart, white cap with a discreet tuft a few aisles over. Between the hats and the women beneath them stand broad patches of every shade of gray, black, and brown cloth, on the shoulders of men of every height, shape, and size. A thick, dark-suited gentleman with silver hair takes his seat under the soaring ceiling and stained-glass windows. A teenager in a shiny gray coat squeezes in next to an older woman, as she sings robustly along with a lively gospel song while the service begins. Despite the varied shades of their Sunday best, the people here at Immanuel Baptist Church in New Haven gather to celebrate a shared heritage, for they are African-Americans, and this is a black church. 

The black church continues to fulfill its myriad missions: to direct the community and to inspire the individual, to activate the many and to motivate the one. 

The black church, apart from the family, is the single most important institution of the African-American community. In the days of slavery, when slaveowners separated husbands from wives and mothers from children, the black church became the foundation of cohesion for Africans trapped in an alien land. In the struggle for emancipation, the black church served as a source of spiritual sustenance and moral courage. And when large numbers of blacks moved from the South to the North, the black church became a safe haven from the trials of the city. 

Amidst the increasing difficulties of life in New Haven, the black church continues to fulfill its myriad missions: to direct the community and to inspire the individual; to activate the many and to motivate the one. From the old, established congregations that worship in spacious churches to the new, snuggling groups that pray in rickety storefronts, the black churches of New Haven have become one of the most powerful political and social institutions of this city-with the mandate to speak for the black community and the means to effect change in both city government and citizens' lives. 

The room is small and the congregation close at the First Pentecostal Church of Christ, Inc. Illuminated only by the glow from a single fluorescent light, the six members of this storefront church kneel against the pews, voices blending with each other in chanted praise. Oh Lord I just want to thank you! one says. Oh God! My soul loves you! says another. 

Halelujah, 
Halelujah ... Haalelujah, 
Halelujah ... HAAAlelujah. First Pentecostal-a church no larger than a living room-resonates with the rhythm of the tiny congregation's testimonials. The people here, too, are African-Americans. And this, too, is a black church. 

Every African-American church in this city is or once was a storefront. Even the largest and one of the oldest black congregations, Immanuel Baptist Church, began in an anonymous house probably as faded and rundown as the storefront church First Pentecostal occupies today. 

As a community of free blacks grew in New Haven in the 1800s, the congregation worshipped in various buildings, the church always teetering on the brink of bankruptcy. Immanuel Baptist kept just ahead of the mortgage payments, as it moved from Carlyle Street to Webster Street, and finally from Webster to the corner of Day Street and Chapel Street in 1882. 



**Faith in the City: New Haven's Black Churches**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In the 1950s, donations from the 
congregation built the modern, 
stone-and-concrete structure chat 
Immanuel Baptist occupies today. It 
boasts a huge meeting room where 
the church's ten choirs practice, where 
the Youth Ministry meets, and where 
the P3ftor, Rev. Curtis M. Cofield, 
hosts a lunch for churchgoers after 
every Sunday service. At present, 
Immanuel Baptist counts nearly 900 
people in its fold. 


First Pentecostal Church of 
C hrist, Inc., on the 
ocher hand, counts 
only six regular adult 
members in its con-
gregation. Founded 
in 
1990, 
First 
Pentecostal is a one-
family congregation. 
Elder Charles G. 
Ashe, his wife and 
children, and a family 
friend, Sister Sandy, 
pray in a low, rectan-
gular wooden build-
ing flecked with peel-
ing aqua paint on 
Newhall Street in 
Newhallville. Elder 
Ashe sits on a broken 
barber's chair in a 
dilapidated barber 
shop beside First 
Pentecostal to read 
the Bible before his 
Sunday service. 


No matrer what 
the size of the congre-
gation, many mem-
bers 
take 
incense 
pride in their church. Their personal 
investment-in fundraising, social 
activities, religious education, and 
community service-may explain the 
remarkable tenacity with which black 
churches have survived and grown 
through the centuries. "The black 
church," said Rev. Sam Slie, founder 
of the Black Church at Yale, "is a 
place where black people can be lead-
ers in their own institution-govern 
it, invest in it their own resources, 
and feel themselves in a community 
that trusts and supports them." 


Many of New Haven's estab-
lished churches began as both 
Immanuel 
Baptist 
and 
Pentecostal did-
under the guidance 
of a few dedicated devout, in tiny 
rooms in houses and meeting places 
across the city, and in extreme pover-
ty. The pastors of these churches 
range from the college-educated ~nd 
the seminary-trained to those who 
are simply inspired by the spirit to 
preach, to pray, and to praise. 


We have a heritage to protect, to 
promulgate, and to propagate to 
every generation present. R~v~r~nd 
Cofi~/d. starts his samon at /mman~l 
Baptist Church. We were snatched 
&om our homeland, and brought to 
a land that has not fully understood 
or accepted us or our contribution. 
H~ cajoks th~ churchgoers to punctuat~ 
his ~vay phrase with a murmur~d 
';.tmen!" We came together to form a 
body of believers, constituted by 
Africans only for Africans, for self-
direction, self-perpetuation, self-help, 
and self-discovery! His voiu rro~rb~r­
aus in th~ hug~ church, magnifying th~ 
pow~r of its rh~toric by th~ strength of its 
volum~. Praise God! says R~v~r~nd 
Cofi~/d. Praise God. 


The day we 
ate of that 
apple, we lost 
fellowship 
with 
God. 
Eld~r 
Ash~ 
sp~aks slowly at 
first to th~ gath-
er~d at First 
P~ntecostal. 
Only the blood 
of Jesus is pure 
enough 
to 
atone for our 
sins. 


H~ dou 
not hav~ to ask 
his congr~gation 
r~spond­
thry raise thd r 
hands 
shak~ th~ir bod-
iu and shout 
that ]~sus is th~ 
only way to 
th~ir salvation. 


Th~ir enthusi-
asm 
se~ms to 
goad Ash~ on; 
th~ words of the 
sn-mon tumbk from his lips fasur and 
fost~r, louckr and louder. You have to 
BELIEVE that He IS ... You have to 
BELIEVE that He IS. PRAISE God, 
says Elder Ash~. Praise God. 


The survival and prosperity of any 
black church depends on the character 
of its pastor. As priests, pastors care for 
the spiritual life of their flock. As 
prophets, they challenge the injustices 
of the society in which their congrega-
tions live. And as politicians, each pas-
tor's personal relationship with city 
powerbrokers often determines the fate 
of his church. 


No two figures better illustrate 
the shifting fortunes of black pastors 
than Dr. Edwin S. Edmonds of 
Dixwell United Church of Christ 
(U.C.C.) and Rev. J. Stanley Justice of 
Bethel African Methodist Episcopal 
(A.M.E.). Dr. Edmonds could be 
called an aristocrat of the black com-
munity. As president of the NAACP 
many black-owned businesses. The 
day care center that was once the 
church's pride and joy shut down last 
September after a change in fire codes. 
Angered by what he sees as some black 
ministers' coddling of the Daniels 
administration, Edmonds accuses 
other ministers of "selling their soul 
cheaply" to gain political influence 
and favors. He bemoans the "confiscat-
ed leadership" of the black community. 


"~ have hundreds of 
people whom we can 
turn to any individual 
who runs for elected 
office. ~ 
not only speak 
for ourselves but for our 
. 
)) 
congregatzons. 


in Greensboro, North Carolina, dur-
ing the turbulent integration battles of 
the 50s, he survived repeated harass-
ment and a shooting that shattered the 
windows of his house. In 1959, he 
took the pulpit of Dixwell U.C.C., 
New Haven's oldest black church, 
after his wife told him she could no 
longer live in Greensboro. Under his 
care, Dixwell U.C.C. founded a day ,. 
care center, sponsored low-income 
housing units, created a minority 
empowerment corporation, lobbied 
for the creation of a community cen-
ter, and supplied after-school pro-
grams. 


Edmonds' activism and populari-
ty earned him a seat on the school 
board and the ear of the mayor. But 
lately, Edmonds' political fortunes 
have waned. When his deacon, John 
Daniels, ran for ·mayor .in 1989, 
Edmonds remarked, "It will be whitey 
who will decide this election." The 
subsequent uproar over his statement 
caused Daniels to repudiate Edmonds. 
"It was a racist remark, so I had to dis-
tance myself," said Daniels, who is still 
a 
member of Dixwell U.C.C. 
"Edmonds knew better." 


Edmonds disdains as flashy the 
..multitude of choirs and colorful ser-
mons his colleagues offer their congre-
J.~'gations. Dixwell U.C.C. has only one 
choir, in contrast to Bethel's six and 
Immanuel's ten. In the 23 years he has 
been pastor, Edmond's congregation 
has shrunk from 350 to 280 people. 
At the same time, the neighborhood 
around his church has slid deeper into 
the chaos of drugs and violence. "Hard 
times have done us in," he says. "We 
did some good, but it didn't last." 


Not only has Edmonds lost his 
place in the city's power elite, but the 
funds and the support for his pro-
grams have started to dry up. Dixwell's 
minority empowerment corporation 
failed because the capital it had gath-
ered was too miniscule to support 


A few blocks away from Dixwell 
U.C.C. stands Bethel A.M.E. Its pas-
tor, Rev. J. Stanley Justice, is young 
and ambitious. A graduate of the Yale 
Divinity School and a native of the 
North, Justice taught in elementary 
schools and pastored in Bermuda 
before coming to Bethel in 1983. In 
the nine years since he took the pulpit, 
Bethel A.M.E.'s rolls have swelled 
from 300 to 500. Under his care, 
Bethel bought a parsonage and added 
a new wing to the church building. In 
addition, the church has "adopted" 
the Helene Grant School, which lies 
just a block away, and Justice has 
become a primary advocate for the 
elementary school in its dealings with 
the city administration and the school 
board. 


A staunch supporter of Daniels, 
Justice defends the involvement of 
the church in every aspect of the 
community, including the political. 
Justice currently serves as one of the 
city's housing commisioners. "If a 
pastor's doing his job," he says, "he 
will always keep in mind the needs of 
his people." 


New Haven's pastors have band-
ed together to fight for the needs of 
their congregations. The Association 
of New Haven Clergy, made up of 
about 40 black ministers from across 
the city, often functions as an advoca-
cy group to focus city government on 
the needs of African-Americans. At 
present, the Association plans to push 
Science Park executives to hire more 
Mrican-American subcontractors and 
workers in the construction of a new 
Science Park facility. From support-
ing a controversial move to open a 
large discount mart in the heart of 
downtown to defending school bud-
gets, the Association has flexed its 
political muscle on more than one 
occasion. 


During Daniels' 1991 bid for the 
mayor's seat, the Association set a 
number of conditions before endors-
ing him for reelection. The ministers 
called on Daniels to consider 
Edmonds for another seat on the 
school board, follow the scattered-site 
low-income housing plan (see story 
page 29), avert city layoffs, and meet 
Connecticut's minimum spending 
requirement for public schools. After 
Daniel's victory, some in the 
Association became enraged when he 
failed to live up to many of his 
promises. Their concern with Daniels 
approaches the paternal. "Too often 
we have bitten our tongue and turned 
the other way like parents who cannot 
believe what an offspring is doing, and 
doing right before their very eyes," 
Rev. Bosie Kimber of First Cavalry 
Baptist told the New Haven Register. 
"We cannot in good conscience 
remain silent any longer." 


Kimber, 
chairman 
of 
the 
Associ~tion's political action arm, the 
Outreach Committee, believes that 
black churches ought to have a special 
place in the city's political community. 
"We ought to have special privileges to 
speak to the mayor whenever we desire 
to speak to him, for the simple reason 
that we have hundreds of people 
whom we can turn to any individual 
who runs for any elected office," he 
said. "We not only speak for ourselves 
but for our congregations." 


Daniels acknowledges that clergy 
will occupy a pivotal position in the 
next mayoral election. He argues, 
however, that support for his adminis-
tration among black clergy and their 
congregations remains strong, despite 
the views of Kimber arid Edmonds. 
"Two or three ministers do not make 
the Association," Daniels said. 
"Edmonds and Kimber have their 
own special agendas. But the rest of 
the clergymen are very supportive of 
me. " 


Although some preachers prefer 
to change city government from the 
outside, many black ministers do not 
hesitate to take positions of responsi-
bility within city government as well. 
Since 1982, black ministers have sat 
on both the school and public housing 
boards of New Haven. These boards 
play key roles in d ealing with two 
issues close to the heart of the pastors: 
affordable and adequate housing for 
the disadvantaged of their congrega-
tions, and, most especially, the future 
of black youth. 


The ImmanueL Baptist Church 
Young Adult Choir presents a gospel song 
with a pop, up-to-date beat. Boys and 
girls, dressed in suits and Sunday dresses, 
follow obediently as their parents sing 
with the congregation and pray with the 
preacher. One little girl in pigtails sings 
"Down on My Knees" enthusiastically 
along with the choir. She is the foture of 
the black church. 


At First Pentecostal, C.]., Deacon 
Ashe's teenage son and Reverend Ashe's 
grandson, plays the drums to accompany 
every song. In the tiny space of the store-
front, the sound of his drums and the 
shouted verses are almost tleaftning. The 
children squirm impatiently as their par-
erzts stand, shout, and sing, caught up in 
the collective electricity of the service. 
One little boy with a buzz-cut draws 
crayon pictures, ignoring the commotion 
around him. He, too, is the foture of 


While the city of Greenwich 
spends an annual average of $9,200 
for every child in its schools, New 
Haven spends about $6,800 per child. 
"The kid in Greenwich is being pro-
grammed to go to Yale," said Kimber, 
"while the kid in New Haven is being 
programmed to go to jail." 


Black churches try to offer educa-
tional and developmental support that 
the city cannot provide to New Haven 
youth. Kimber's church conducts a 
summer enrichment program for city 
youth, while Immanuel Baptist and 
Dixwell U.C.C. have tried establishing 
day care facilities or after-school activi-
ties. Rev. Justice works directly with 
the children and young adults of his 
congregation. A week after Malcolm X 
opened, he brought a group of 
teenagers to see the movie and led a 
discussion with them afterwards. In 
his church, he stresses Afrocentrism by 
putting up posters with the words 
"Kwanzaa Greetings" on the doors of 
the church and encouraging African-
inspired dress and clothing among the 
young adults of Bethel. 


Justice's efforts to bring young 
people back into the church reflect the 
black church's concern for its own sur-
vival. The black preachers of New 
Haven have begun to reach out to the 
"unchurched" generation, hoping to 
secure the continued existence of a 
congregation, inculcate values and 
discipline, and protect teens from the 
dangers of the city. Justice hopes that 
by advocating Afrocentrism, he can 
enhance black children's self-esteem. 
He runs a three-month education 
program for young adults and fo r 
anyone else who wants to join the 
church. "It is not my intention to get 
all the folk in Bethel," says Justice, "as 
long as they go to a church." 


The breakdown of traditional 
family structures and the high mobili-
ty rate of many black families has led 
to a decline in the number of consis-
tent churchgoers. As more and more 
middle-class blacks move to the sub-
urb~, and as government funds for 
programs for the poor dwindle, the 
black churches in the city scramble to 
finance alternative programs. "You 
live with the pain of poverty," says 
Edmonds. As the case of Dixwell 
U.C.C. shows, trying to be all things 
to all people can sap the energy of 
ministers. "But that doesn't stop our 
need to try," says Edmonds, "because 
that's the tradition of the black 
church." Dixwell U.C.C. could have 
moved to the suburbs, but he and 
previous pastors decided to remain in 
the inner city, to do what they can for 
the urban poor. 


Small storefront churches also 
minister, in their own way, to the 
needy. Before the Sunday service, 
Elder Ashe stops passersby in the 
depressed neighborhood outside, 
inviting them in to worship with the 
Lord. H e believes saving their· souls 
will also save them from the streets. 
Rev. Cofield envisions a church open 
24 hours a day, where services go on 
without a break, because people need 
"salvation around the clock." In this 
time of need, Cofield believes even 
more in the necessity of bringing the 
church to the people, not the people 
to the church.



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Jose Manuel Tesoro**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Churches that emphasize per-
sonal salvation without addressing 
the social and political needs of 
their congregations come under 
attack from highly-involved pastors 
like Cofield, Edmonds, and Justice. 
"You can't board in Heaven and live 
on Earth," said Justice. 

But differences over how one 
gets to Heaven may be the biggest 
obstacle to the effectiveness of the 
black church as a political force. 
T he black church is divided among 
many denominations-the three 
major African Methodist congrega-
tions, the two major Baptist ones, 
the Pentecostals, the Episcopalians, 
the Catholics, and so on. "We have 
a racial loyalty," argues one pastor, 
"that transcends denomination." 

But the divergent personal agendas 
of individual pastors often hinders 
united action on broad social 
issues. 

"If they all acted in concert, 
they could turn things around," 
argued Slie. Nevertheless, he added, 
"T he problem is bigger than the 
church." Surrounded by immense 
social problems, black churches 
strive to offer spiritual as well as 
practical solutions for their congre-
gations. Whether or not they suc-
ceed entirely, by trying, they remain 
places of refuge and hope. 

Th~ last song is sung, the last 
prayer prayed. The churchgoers g~t up 
from th~ir p~ws-the men put on 
th~ir hats, th~ wom~n th~ir coats. As 
thq l~av~. th~y shake hands, hug, 
and smil~. asking each how th~ oth" 
is doing. The smu of warmth, of 
community, spills out onto th~ strut 
as the faithful disperu, amidst the 
strains of a gospel hymn. 

Jose Manuel Tesoro, a junior in 
Jonathan Edwards Co//~g~. is associ-
at~ ~ditor ofTNJ. 
FEBRUARY 5· 1993 


**Title: AFTERTHOUGHT------------------------Talking to Ourselves**
**Author: Kimberly Goff-Crews and Claudia Highbaugh**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

Y
ale provides an interesting microcosm of the world 
today, particularly with respect to issues of race and 
ethnicity. Living and working at Yale, we can easily 
be overwhelmed by the variety of people that make up the . 
university. 

There are women and people of color in class-
rooms at twice the numbers of only 20 years ago. There are 
faculty, administrators, and staff members from a number 
of economic and ethnic backgrounds who provide services 
to the Yale community each day. There are students from 
every nation on the globe. And there are opportunities for 
all students at Yale to travel and gain exposure to myriad 
cultures and political climates. Indeed, we can see and 
experience the history and art of civilizations from ancient 
Egypt to Mexico. We can also hear a variety of music, from 
the Slavic Chorus to the Gospel Choir. 

Yet as we celebrate the life of the Reverend Dr. Martin 
Luther King, Jr., we must examine the status of our com-
munities of color, and in particular the community of 
African descent, as we set our sights on future goals. We 
must ask ourselves: How far have we come? Are we focused 
on the tasks of succeeding in education, business and cul-
tural expression? Are there more opportunities for us in the 
arenas of politics and corporate business? Are we gerting all 
that we can out of our Yale experience? And finally, are we, 
as people of color, gerring better at dealing wirh issues of 
race and ethnicity in the larger academic community and in 
communities of color? 

T he answers to these questions, which lie ar the root of 
any necessary improvements on issues of race and ethnicity 
at Yale, depend on combined changes within rhe university 
at large and within communities of color. 

First, collectively, we need to reexamine and reclaim 
our images. We can start by looking at how we are defined. 
For example, people of color are not "minorities." There 
are more persons of Asian and Mrican descent on earth 
than anyone else. Our minority status only emerges in the 
context of political control and/or economic power. With 
unified and persistent efforts, we can create a more bal-
anced socio-economic and political arena in which to par-
ticipate. 

We therefore must not define ourselves in 
diminutive terms. lnde~d, we might take a few good clues 
from the emerging identities of the biracial students in our 
midst who refuse to accept one heritage over the other. In a 
show of unity, biracial students claim all of their ethnicities. 
The marriage of their backgrounds is the expression of a -
new unity rather than a fractionalization. 

In addition, people of color who work toward a com-
. mon goal are not separatists. Tables in Commons peopled 
by African-Americans, for example, are no different than 
tables peopled by Exeter alums, Ezra Stiles freshpeople, or 
singing group recruits. Our commonalities and the way we 
celebrate community enhance unity and allow us to build 
lifelong relationships. We affirm and embrace each other 
as we look back to our troubled histories, constructing solu-
tions and responses that will create an empowered future 
for our particular ethnic group and for the country as a 
whole. 

Second, we people of color need to talk amongst our-
selves and get down to the business of establishing our own 
agenda. Our agenda must include more than a good edu-
cation and other opportunities which build a great resume. 
We must learn (in and out of the classroom) the stories of 
our heritages and the text·of our various cultural back-
grounds. In so doing, we must also embrace those within 
the context of our own culture whom we have often set 
aside. Paying closer attention to women's issues in general, 
as well as to those of lesbians and gays, and learning to be 
open to their struggles-whether we agree or not-will fur-
ther our efforts to bolster ourselves for renewal and accep-
tance in our widely diverse ethnic communities. Moreover, 
we must also learn from every other race and ethnicity at 
Yale in an effort to hear one another in the context of


fEBRUARY 5, 1993 

people 
who strug-
gle for recog-
nition and ad-
vancement in a vari-
ety of leaky life rafts 
swimming upstream. 

Finally, we must gather 
together the tools that facilitate 
change on our terms. It is time for 
people of color to develop our own 
resources. It is time to envision ideas and models 
that may or may not rely on large doses of govern-
ment funding and corporate donations. We 
must think of ourselves as "ethnic" legacies who 
are prepared to change our worlds by working 
in the larger society and sharing time, energy 
and affirmations with those in need both inside 
and outside of the university system. As direct 
beneficiaries of human struggle, we can look 
forward to sharing our ideas and solutions with 
our country as it faces an era requiring great sac-
rifice and calling for incredible ingenuity and 
strength of will. 

Many answers exist to the questions of division 
amidst people because of different racial and ethnic tra-
ditions. We as people of color must recogni:u and create 
some of those answers for ourselves. There is no rime left for 
us to allow the privilege of opportunity to remove us from 
the obligation of resourcefulness. The solutions will not 
come down from the mainstream. They are not the authori-
ty. They are not the majority. We have researched the solu-
tion, and we are it. 

In prayerful anticipation, we would like to take this 
opportunity to anticipate change, in the climate of new lead-
ership, both as we await the appointment of a new president 
fEBRUARY 5• 1993 
here at Yale and in the wake of the inauguration of a new 
generation of leadership in the White House. In the words 
of our sister Maya Angelou, born and raised twenty-five 
miles from Hope, Arkansas, we find instruction and the 
inspiration as we prepare to talk to ourselves: 

... Here, on the pulse of this new day 
You may have the grace to look up and our 
And into your sister's eyes and into 
Your brother's face, your country 
And say simply 
Very simply 
With hope 
Good morning. 

JGmb~rly Gojf-Cr~ws {Yale 83, lAW '86) is Assistant D~an of 
Yale Co/leg~, and Dir~ctor of th~ Afro-Ammcan Cultural 
Cmur at Yale. 
Claudia Highbaugh is th~ Associau Chaplain of tiN Uniwrsity. 
THE NEW jOURNAL 39 



**Title: C. A. White, Inc.**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
.' 
C. A. White, Inc. 
New Raven's longest established Real Estate firm, 
providing long and short term housing needs 
ilpart~ents--------------------------~­
The "!'raymore 
84 Howe Street Mayfair Court 
120 Dwight Street 
Studio's, one, two, and 
three bedroom 
apartments in a 
beautifully maintained 
building close to Yale 
and hospitals. Many 
Yale Graduate students. 
1211 Chapel 
Street 
New Haven, 
Connecticut 
06511 
84 Howe Street 
AFFORDABLE! 
Reasonable prices on 
spacious one bedroom 
apartments including 
ALL UTILITIES. On-site 
super & security. Close to 
Yale & hospitals. 



Quality Inn Hotel & 
Host Ways Motor Inn 
Conference Center 
100 Pond Lily Avenue 
New Haven • 387-6651 
Exit 59 off Merritt/ 
Wilbur Cross Parkway 
Health Club, indoor pool, 
& adjoining restaurant 
30 Frontage Road, 
East Haven • 469-5321 
Exit 52 offi-95 
Minutes from 
New Haven 


825-835 Elm Street 
English Tudor style 
building. Large one and 
two bedroom apartments. 
Gorgeous hardwood floors. 
Airy over-sized rooms. 
Heat & hot water included. 
Minutes from Yale. 
call 
777-6891 
for more 
information 


Hotels 
Howard Johnson 
2260 Whitney Avenue 
Hamden • 288-3831 
Exit 61 off 
Merritt/Wilbur 
Cross Parkway 
Make Reservations for Graduation and Reunions Today! 

