Publication date: December 6, 1991
Volume: 24
Issue number: 3


**MASTHEAD:**
- **Editor-in-Chief:**  (Not listed)


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
5 From the Editor 
News Journal 
The Father of Football 
In Vitro Education 
From Serbia to Silliman 
8 Between The Vines: Trading Needles for Lives ... by David Suisman 
28 Afterthought: Community Policing: On the Neighborhood Beat ... by Andrew Michaelson 
12 Through the Yale Lens ... by Pauline Chiou
14 Foreign Students: Adrift at Yale ... by Beth Zasloff
16 The Federalist Society: Tomorrow's Powerbrokers ... by Emily Bazelon
20 The Bridge to China ... by Charlotte Brooks
24 Brave New Disneyworld ... by Kate Brewster


**Title: From the Editor**
**Author: (Not Listed)**
**Page number(s): 5**


**Title: News Journal**


**Title: The Father of Football**


**Title: In Vitro Education**


**Title: From Serbia to Silliman**


**Title: Between The Vines: Trading Needles for Lives**
**Author: David Suisman**
**Page number(s): 8**


**Title: Through the Yale Lens**
**Author: Pauline Chiou**
**Page number(s): 12**


**Title: Foreign Students: Adrift at Yale**
**Author: Beth Zasloff**
**Page number(s): 14**


**Title: The Federalist Society: Tomorrow's Powerbrokers**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 16**


**Title: The Bridge to China**
**Author: Charlotte Brooks**
**Page number(s): 20**


**Title: Brave New Disneyworld**
**Author: Kate Brewster**
**Page number(s): 24**


**Title: Afterthought: Community Policing: On the Neighborhood Beat**
**Author: Andrew Michaelson**
**Page number(s): 28**



**Title: From the Editor**
**Author: Saul Rabin**
**Page number(s): 5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
To the Editor: 
I was favo rably impressed by the 
October 18 issue, especially by the 
pieces on the mayoral race and the Art 
Gallery. In fact, I briefly visited the 
Gallery during a visit and couldn't 
understand why the sculpture gallery 
was empty! I was depressed to find out 
it wasn't empty after all. 

Saul Rabin 
Arlington, MA


**Title: Editor's Note**
**Author: JGP**

Th~ N~w journal would like to con-
gratulate and welcome our newest staff 
members. They came two months ago 
to our first organizational meeting and 
got involved in all sides of the maga-
zine-writing, photography, business, 
design, and production. Through their 
commitment and their enthusiasm, 
they have become part of the N~w 
journal team. 

We already have begun work on 
our annual special issue. Every year, 
our entire staff comes together to pro-
duce a magazine dovoted to a single 
issue of particular importance to the 
Yale community. If you want to get in 
on the action, please come to our next 
staff meeting, Tuesday, December 10 
at 7 pm in Calhoun's Napier Room. 

We welcome new writers, photogra-
phers, born salesmen , artists, and 
desktop production whizzes in the 
effort. Please join us! 

-JGP 

Co'"ction: An artick in our Octoba 18 
issu~. "Th~ World According to Yal~." 
n~gkcud to mmtion Yak's unior Latin 
Ammcanist in th~ History tkpartmmt, 
Emilia da Costa. The New Journal 
Trgras th~ aror.


**Title: Father of Football**
**Author: Julie Freedman**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Two weeks ago, thousands of students 
streamed under the massive Walter Camp 
memorial colonnade into the Yale Bowl to 
witness the I 08th annual Yale-Harvard 
football game. Over a century ago, when 
Camp (Yale College 1880) first came to 
Yale, football was a much more brutal 
game without padding or penalties. 

During his undergraduate days and later as 
Yale's director of athletics, Camp essencially 
transformed football into the game as we 
know it today. 

Camp's innovations in the rules of 
football began in his days as an undergrad-
uate at Yale and continued throughout his 
life. Captain of the Blue (as Yale was 
known then) for three seasons, he intro-
duced the scrimmage. The scrimmage 
added an element of strategy to football 
that sec the game apart from British rugby. 
His other contributions include the use of 
the quarterback, the rules of possession, 
and the gridiron. In 1889, he sdeaed the 
first All-American football team. By the 
end of his life, his name had become 
nationally synonymous with football and 
athleticism. 

Camp's ideals for athletics extended 
well beyond the glories of victory. He 
believed football could aid personal devd-
opmenr and build team spirit. "Camp fos--
tered the idea that play should be a test of 
character," said Jean-Christophe Agnew, an 
American Studies professor who specializes 
in Camp's era. "It should have the srrenu-
ous dimension to it, as part of the training 
of the future leaders of America." 

Athletics, Camp believed, could 
improve student decorum. 
"Since the dawn of athleti-
cism at Yale, all trespasses 
upon the discipline of the 
college have grown steadily 
less," Camp noted in his 
book Yak: Ha Campus, H" 
Classrooms, H~r Athl~tics. 

Football promised to pro-
vide an outlet for the aggres-
sion that Camp believed was 
latent in the American psy-
che. "The average American 
has a strain in his blood, 
coming down to him 
through rugged ancestors, 
that 
gives 
him 
an 
unquenchable lust for 
uncivilized places," he wrote. 

Such aggression could be 
channded only on the foot-
ball field, creating young 
men of temperance and 
civility. "Best of all is the 
establishment of an all-
around standard of clean 
morals and health, and an esprit de corps 
that carries the typical Yale man far." 

Athletics may have hd~ foster disci-
pline and moral standards away from the 
playing fields, but the games themselves 
ofTen degenerated into violence. When 
Yale and Pennsylvania met in 1893, 17 
players received serious injuries, including 
one who emerged from the &ay with tooth 
marks on his back. The Yale-Harvard 
game of 1894 sparked fist-fights among 
the rival students on the way out of the 
park. "No father or mother worthy of the 
name would permit a son to associate with 
the Yale brutes," stormed a New iOrk Post 
editorial that year. 

The 1905 college football season wit-
nessed 149 injuries and 18 deaths through-
out the country. The ensuing national out-
rage prompted President Roosevelt to 
summon Camp, along with representatives 
from Harvard arid Princeton, to a confer-
ence at the White House. In response to a 
proposal by Camp and Alexander MofFat 
of Princeton, delegates from 28 colleges 
met to create the National College Athletic 
Association. The committee endeavored to 
reduce football injuries by requiring impar-
tial referees and designating violent acts as 
fOuls subject to penalties. Camp served on 
the NCAA football rules committee until 
his death in 1925. 

Despite the violence of many early 
games, Camp's idealism never wavered. 
According to his writings, his message of 
sportsmanship was not lost on Yale stu-
dents. In 1898, Harvard triumphed easily 
over the Yale Blue. "The result was so man-
ifesdy a logical one as to leave no ground 
ror cavil," Camp recalled. "In fact the con-
gratulations extended to Harvard carne 
from no sincerer source than from the Yale 
players themselves and the Yale body in 
General." 

And ifYale srudents could be gentle-
men in defeat, they certainly were gracious 
in victory-as the game two weeks ago 
illustrates. 
-Julie Freedman


**Title: In Vitro Education**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 6**

In an age of electron microscopes and 
computer models, teaching human 
development with embalmed fetuses 
may seem primitive. But Professor 
Emeritus Edmund Crelin's collection 
of 30 malformed human fetuses, 
housed at the Yale Medical School, 
promotes a sobering awareness of the 
human side of medicine. "First you 
think, this 
is 
intriguing," said 
Brian 
Adams 
(MED 
'95). 
"Then you realize that 
beyond the science of it 
all, you have to deal with 
human emotions, because 
these things were born to 
real people. You realize 
your responsibility." 

The 
collection 
enables students to come 
face to face with what can 
go wrong in human devel-
opment. But few medical 
students take advantage of 
the collection. Dr. C relin 
feels this neglect reflects a 
pervasive over-emphasis in 
current medical education 
on the theoretical and the 
microscopic. 

When he arrived at 
Yale in 1947, Dr. Crelin 
found a handful of normal 
and malformed fetal spec-
imens lying neglected in a 
basement, where some 
already had dried out. He 
restored as many specimens as he 
could, and over the years he acquired 
more through donations from parents 
and hospitals all over the region. H e 
possesses some rare specimens: the 
cyclops, with its two eyes merged into 
one; the sirenomelous, or mermaid, 
with its legs fused together; the cran-
ioschitic, with its rudimentary brain 
exposed through an opening in its 
skull. 

According to Dr. Crelin, the col-
lection offers students a valuable tool 
for the study of fetal development. 
"The beauty is that I can give a talk 
and then say, 'now go upstairs and 
look at that 8-weeker over there,'" said 
Dr. Crelin. The results for prenatal 
tests such as amniocentesis and ultra-
sound hang next to some fetuses, so 
that students can see exactly how the 
problems indicated in the tests take 
shape. 

The collection's emotional impact 
ensures that its value transcends the 
technical. "It punches you in the stom-. 
ach," said Nicholas Muellner (DC 
'91). "It gives you a real awareness of 
the process of being created. You did 
not come together in a vacuum." 

Dr. Crelin complains, however, 
that his collection represents a flesh-
and-blood approach to medical educa-
tion that has gone out of fashion. The 
number of hours students spend on 
dissections has declined over the years, 
as schools shift attention and resources 
to more theoretical subjects like cell 
biology. "If I talk to students about 
microbiology, their eyes sparkle," said 
Dr. Crelin. "But talk about a bone and 
they're not interested." 

In 1989 the department moved 
the malformed specimens from an 
open hallway, where they stood next to 
the normal ones, to the locked,


**The Yale Anatomy Collection**
**Author: Jeremy Mumford**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
unmarked room where they now 
reside. Without classroom exposure co 
the more graphic side of medicine, 
many students never overcome their 
initial repulsion to malformed speci~ 
mens. "The.studenrs can't deal with 
reality," Dr. Crelin said. "These speci~ 
mens are not really shocking once you 
understand them." 

The actual practice of medicine 
often drives home to recent graduates 
the relevance of the collection. 
Medical residents visit it more fre~ 
quently than the students themselves. 
"When students become doctors, they 
see that a patient is not a cell organelle, 
but a real functioning anatomical 
specimen that you can see with the 
naked eye," Dr. Crelin said. He only 
wishes that medical education led 
them to that realization earlier. 
--ftrtmy Mumford


**From Serbia to Silliman**
**Author: Solange Betchler**

The Serbo~Croacian wac, which began 
when Croatia declared itself indepen~ 
dent from Yugosla~ia on June 25, 
1991, has resulted in the destruction 
of cities and the deaths of thousands 
of Yugoslavs. Many young men such 
as Zoran Kozic (SM '95) have fled 
from a war they do not want to fight. 
Kozic left his country this summer, 
after an old friend and hockey team~ 
mace died fighting for the Serbian 
army. Displaced Yugoslavs like Kozic 
now flood Europe as they travel 
around with tourist passes. "Vienna is 
full of Yugoslavs," Kozic said. "I saw 
old friends as I walked down the 
street." 

Kozic left Yugoslavia not only 
because of the war, but also because he 
could no longer tolerate what he 
describes as the tyrannical repression 
of Eastern European communism. 
Kozic denounced "communist propa-
ganda" when he was in high school, 
and spoke out against the government 
after his experiences traveling in the 
West 
with 
his 
hockey team. 
"Communism is supposed to mean 
equality, but Tiro lived like a king and 
people are supposed to be happy on 
$200 a month," he said. "People in 
Romania and Bulgaria are in total iso~ 
lation. They are poor and uneducated 
and they don't know what is going on 
in the rest of the world." 

Even as a child, Kozic dreamed of 
studying in the U. S. "I didn't want to 
go back to Yugoslavia-! wanted to 
study in the United States," he said. 
"All of my friends study in universi~ 
ties, but they know that if they don't 
leave the country they will never find 
a job." After graduating from high 
school, he joined a junior hockey 
league in Canada, where he was 
named Rookie of the Year. In Canada, 
Kozic believes, hockey scouts from 
American universities sported him. 
Kozic spent the months between 
June and his arrival at Yale evading 
the Serbian police. Men between rhe 
ages of 18 and 55, he says, avoid 
spending the night at home or have 
their family members tell the police 
they are not there. Sometimes police 
have women call "to trick us into 
answering the phone," said Kozic. For 
days at a rime he lay low with friends 
and relatives in Austria, Hungary, 
Germany, and Montenegro. 
On July 31, Yale admissions did 
what the Serbian police could not. 
They tracked down 
Kozic 
in 
Montenegro, where they notified him 
of his admission to Yale. His accep~ 
tance letter helped him obtain an 
American visa, more valuable than 
gold in Yugoslavia. "There are lines 
around the embassy in Belgrade 
where they wait two days just to 
apply for a visa," Kozic said. Only 
people with family in the United 
States or students accepted into 
American universities can obtain 
visas. Fortunately the American 
ambassador in Serbia graduated from 
Yale, and Kozic quickly procured his 
VISa. 
Kozic left war~torn Yugoslavia 
without regrets. Yet his dual nation-
ality adds the problem of national 
loyalty to the trauma of the war. The 
son of a Croatian mother and a 
Serbian father, Kozic once resided in 
Zagreb, C roatia but spent most of his 
youth in Belgrade, Serbia. "I have 
friends and family in both states who 
always want me to side with them," 
Kozic said. "I have no national l oyal~ 
cy, but I think every state should be 
independent." 
-Solangt Btlchtr


**Trading Needles For Lives**
**Author: David Suisman**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

few weeks ago Brian Carroll and I stood on Dixwell 
Avenue, where we meet every Friday to exchange 
eedles with intravenous drug users. A young girl, 
maybe ten years old, noticed the box of syringes and the 
shopping bag full of bleach kits. "What are you doing?" she 
demanded. "Are you giving out candy?" Brian looked at her 
silently. 

When she repeated her question, Brian responded, 
"Huh? Why are you hanging around the street here?" 
"I'm waiting for the library to open," she explained. 
Then, a third time: "Are you giving our candy?" 
Brian stared at her. "No ... no," he said. "This is grown-
up stuff. You'll understand when you're older." Then he 
looked down and shook his head. 

I work with Brlan Carroll, a recovering IV drug addict 
from rhe D ixwell neighborhood, for the National AIDS 
Brigade, a grassroots group that pioneered an organized 
needle exchange in 1983. When I joined last September, the 
Brigade's director, Jon Parker, warmly introduced Brian to 
me as "one of the baddest guys in New Haven." 

I decided to work in a needle exchange program after I 
read an article in Spin magazine last summer, and I contact-
ed Jon Parker through a friend. As I waited outside the 
Daily Caffe ro meet him for the first time, two concerns 
weighed heavily on my mind: first, would the drug users 
harbor unbridled resentment towards me, this white preppy 
Yalie, and second, would they inadvertently prick me with 
dirty, HIV-infected syringes? I felt like I was entering a crazy 
world, and I did not know what to expect. 

When Jon arrived, I blurted out, "What exactly are we 
going to do now?" and he told me, "We're just going to 
drive up Dixwell and hang out with some drug addicts for a 
few hours and exchange some needles." I nodded. 

Approximately 2,000 people regularly use IV drugs in 
New Haven. City officials estimate that over one third of 
them are H IV-positive, infected with the virus that causes 
AIDS. Other appraisals place the figure closer to 60 per-
cent. The city has one of the country's highest per capita 
incidences of IV-related HIV infection, a category that 
includes mother-child infection and sexual transmission by 
an IV drug user. 

Tommy "Slim" Stevens, an HIV-positive AIDS Brigade 
worker, paints a grimmer picture of the Elm City's infection 
rate. "Everybody out here who's been shooting drugs for the 
five years 
has the virus," he 
told me one day. 
"Everyone?" I pressed. 
"Yep. Every one. Some of them 
just don't know it yet." 

When Jon and I got out of the car on Dixwell, 
people eyed me suspiciously but greeted Jon with a smile. 
We grabbed a box of new syringes, a shopping bag full of 
bleach kits (used to sterilize needles), and a plasric recepta-
cle for old needles. Jon introdu~d me to my AIDS Brigade 
colleagues. These five or six local residents help distribute 
needles on the sidewalk once a week and keep needles at 
home to supply IV drug users at other times. "You think all 
our work is standing on the street on Fridays?" challenged 
Billy Chapman, an AIDS Brigade worker. "These people 
out here know who we are, that we have needles, and they 
come to us at two, three, four o'clock in the morning bang-
ing on the window. And I gee up and give them needles." 

The AIDS Brigade aims co save lives by raising users' 
awareness of the disease. "Yes, we exchange needles, but we 
also try to educate people," Jon explained. "Most users 
know not to share needles, but we tell people not to 
share their water or their cookers [bottle-caps 
used to prepare the drugs]. A lot of 
them didn't know that when we 


While needle exchange programs deter new HN infec-
tion, they also combat re-infection by people who are already 
HN-positive. For drug users who cariy the virus but who 
have not developed full-blown AIDS, the needle exchange 
may save their lives; for drug users who have AIDS, clean 
needles may keep them from becoming sicker. 

Jon created the AIDS Brigade's needle exchange pro-
gram in 1983, while a student at the Yale Medical School. 
When one professor told him that drug users did not care 
about their lives and that any efforts at AIDS education 
would be wasted, Jon could not believe his ears. A former 
IV drug addict himself, he protested: he knew that drug 
users care about staying alive as much they care about get-
ting high. 

Jon began shooting drugs at 14 and later spent two 
rs in prison for a series of drugstore robberies 
committed to support his habit. One year 
Iacer, he faced a repeat-offender sen-
tence of five to seven years. He 
had his term commuted 
to admittance into 
a drug reha-
bilita-



**PHOTO SNAP, INC.**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
PHOTO SNAP, tNQ. 
PHOTOGRAPHS lAST A 
LIFETIME AND BEYOND! 
• DoN'T SETTLE FOR 
POQR RUN-OF-THE-MILL 
AUTOMATED COMMERCIAL 
FILM DEVELOPMENT EVEN 
THOUGH IT MAY BE CHFAPER! 
-------------
$1.00 Off 24 OR 3& FILM 
DMLOPIII8/PRIIITIII8 OR 
EIIIIRBEMEIITS Willi THIS COUPGII : 
PHOTO SNA~ INQ. .: 
1130 C1x1pel SlreeP(Comer cl Yorid I 
New Haven, CT 0651 0•498-9966 I 
Monday-Friday 
9AM to 6PM 


**New Haven's AIDS Brigade**
**Author: David Suisman**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

jon Parker and Kelly Graham, recovered IV drug users, exchange needles for the 
AIDS Brigade. Graham once ran a shooting gallery. 
cion program, after which he entered 
college (using the high school equiva-
lency diploma he earned in jail) to 
pursue a career as a doctor. "I'm really 
lucky I got a second chance. Most guys 
don't," he reflected. Jon is now writing 
an autobiography called From jail to 
Yale. "I hope the book may serve as an 
inspiration to other drug addicts who 
want to change their lives," he said. 
Despite the drastic changes in his 
lifestyle, Jon still seems most comfort-
able on the street. He would rather 
spend his afternoons shadow-boxing 
with a friend on Dixwell than fighting 
through the "bureaucratic bullshit" of 
New Haven public administration. 
The Brigade, however, may suffer from 
Jon's reluctance to wade through the 
city's red tape. Jim Voltz, spokesman 
for Boston's AIDS Action Committee, 
told the magazine In These Times, 
"He's a prophet in our time, although 
I wouldn't necessarily hire a prophet to 
run an organization." 
No one in New. Haven .shoots 
heroin. Instead, local IV drug users 
rely on a synthetic narcotic called p-
dope, approximately four times as 
strong as heroin, which they often 
mix with cocaine to form "speed-
balls." "P-dope is more devastating, 
and harder to kick than heroin," said 
Brigade worker Kelly Graham, a for-
mer addict. Some attribute New 
Haven's inordinately high incidence 
of IV-transmitted AIDS to the addic-
tive power of the synthetic drug. 
"With p-dope, the need for a fix is 
stronger than with heroin, and that 
can lead to increased needle-sharing," 
Jon said. 

Despite their history of sharing 
dirty needles, New Haven drug users 
now actively seek clean "works" when 
available. According to a recent AIDS 
Brigade survey of local drug users, not 
a single respendent would share nee-
dles if they could obtain clean ones. 
Kelly said that IV drug users adjusted 
well to the need for safer drug prac-
tices. "They took it in stride," he said. 
"I know guys now who won't get off 
unless they can get a hold of clean 
works." 
This behavioral change blatantly 
contradicts social scientists' conven-
tional argument that drug users refuse 
to abandon the "bonding" experience 
of sharing syringes. "Everyone out here 
knows at least one person who has 
died from AIDS," Jon told me. "It's a 
basic survival instinct: people have 
gotten smarter and stopped sharing 
because they've had to." 
Shooting galleries are apartments 
or houses where drug users meet 
socially and shoot up together. One 
former drug user described the atmo-
sphere as "a party where, instead of 
talcing a sip of beer, you stick a needle 
in your arm." Even such environ-
ments, which once fostered needle 
sharing, have begun ro promote needle 
exchange. Some gallery owners now 
work with the Brigade to exchange 
dozens of needles at a time (often 
called bulk exchange) and provide 
clean works for their clientele. One 
gallery now changes about one hun-
dred needles every week. 
For many years the Brigade 
ignored the laws that prohibited pos-
session of needles without a prescrip-
tion 
in 
Connecticut 
and 
Massachusetts. In 1990, however, the 
Connecticut legislature legalized pos-
session of syringes for the purpose of 
needle exchange in New Haven-
though not in the rest of Connecticut. 
The AIDS Brigade's work on the 
~treecs of DixweU played a crucial role 
in the passage of the new law. "A lot of 
legislators were reluctant to repeal the 
needle ban," Jon said . "They were 
scared: what would their constituents 
think? But then they saw we had been 
exchanging needles for years. We had 
stats showing the efficacy of our work. 
It's a lot easier to get something passed 
that way." 
The needle exchange program 
that the New Haven health depart-
ment recently established now receives 
much of the credit that belongs to the 
AIDS Brigade. "They're hogging the 
glory now," Kelly explained. "We were 
the ones taking flak from the police 
before police chief Pastore and Mayor 
Daniels came in." 
Now the AIDS Brigade has turned 
toward the future. Jon hopes to open a 
storefront that will act as a base for the 
AIDS Brigade in New Haven and will 
create jobs for recovering addicts. In 
1986 the Brigad e operated such a 
space on York Street as an AIDS pre-
vention "shop" that provided supplies 
and information. The new storefront 
also will serve a positive social function 
for its patrons: "Drug addicts in gener-
al feel largely disempowered and alien-
ated," Jon said. "A storefront is a place 
where they can feel they belong, and it 
reminds them they do have a legiti-
mate stake in society. There aren't a lot 
of places like that. We're trying to help 
drug users in a variety of ways. 
"A lot of these people are HIV-
positive and will die from AIDS," Jon 
said. "For them, every time they make 
an effort to use clean works, they're 
doing something positive, taking 
responsibility for their lives. That's a 
good feeling. It's a start. For the other 
addicts, we provide clean needles so 
people won't get the virus; they're 
going to shoot up either way. We're 
trying to keep them alive." 
I8J 
David Suisman, a smior in Pin-son 
Co/kg~. is on thotajfo.fTNJ. 
Brian CarroL/ and Tommy "Slim" 
Stroms ar~ ps~donyms. 


GODIVA 
alno 14-
'A Famasy Candy Land" 
Candy by the piece 01· by 
the Pound 
Jelly Beans•Choco/nte• Cards•Pany Fnvo1-s 
The Best Chocolate and Candy 
Selections in New Haven 
Open seven days a ~eek 
Mon.- Sat. 10:00 am to 6:00pm • Sun. 1:00 pm to 6:00pm 
10-11 Chapel Strca • :\N Ha><n • 003) ;;;.()()()6 

Planned Parenthood 
of Connecticut 
We listen! 
For friendly, confidential, 
affordable reproductive 
health care call Planned 
Parenthood at 865-0595 
48 Howe Street (YWCA) 

Any ~Sub 
Aro A Medium 
Aro Get a RquJar ~Sub 
Of Equal 0r Lesser ~m For 99¢ 
1 79 Chapel Street 
5 Whitney Avenu e 


**THROUGH THE YALE LENS**
**Author: Pauline Chiou**
**Page number(s): 12**

current exhibitio n at New York's Museum of 
Modern Art (MOMA) testifies to the visibility and 
uccess of Yale's graduate program in photography. 
The show, called "Pleasures and Terrors of Domestic 
Comfort," examines American photography since 1980 
with over 150 photographs by about 70 artists. Nine of the 
exhibiting photographers studied in the Yale program, and 
they created many of their works in the show as students 
here. "Yale's graduates tend to. be very sophisticated techni-
cally," said Peter Galassi, director of MOMA's photography 
department and curator of the show. "Yale has a distin-
guished faculty and has attracted a number of excellent 
young photographers." Although only 90 students have 
come through Yale's program since its inception in 1970, 
Yale graduates claim a prestigious spot among contempo-
rary American photographers. 
Many photographers come to Yale's graduate program 
after years of work on their own. "Yale wants you to take 
time off and experience the world," said Rita Fusaro (ART 
'92), .at 24 one of the program's youngest students. "The 
average age of the students here is probably 27 to 29." 
Many students say they came to Yale after working alone 
Taknud photographn-s lik~ Rita Fusaro hon~ th~ir vision in Yak's traditionalist graduau program. 



**Yale Photography: A Modernist Bastion?**
**Author: Paulin Chiou**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
because of the intense critical environment the program 
provides. While other schools focus on art theory, Fusaro 
said, Yale emphasizes analysis of the students' own work by 
peers and professors. 

"Yale has the best resources and the best faculty," said 
Dawoud Bey (ART '93). The Yale photography program 
boasts prominent artists such as Tod Papageorge, director of 
the graduate program since 1978, and Richard Benson, 
famous for his excellent photographic reproductions and 
darkroom techniques. 

The reputation of the Yale faculty attracts talented pho-
tographers who want to strengthen their foundation in 
"straight," or traditional, photography. "Every year we get 
applications from the strongest young straight photogra-
phers around the country," said Papageorge, who taught all 
nine Yale artists in the New York show. "They see Yale as a 
bright light in the· study of straight photography." 

Steve Ahlgren (ART '92) describes photography today 
as divided into two schools-modernist and postmodernist. 
Ahlgren identifies Yale with modernism, a straight approach 
to photography. "I often hear Yale professors say they are 
most interested in how the lens describes the world," he 
said. Postmodernist photography arose in the early 80s as a 
reaction to the modern tradition of photography and often 
combines photographic images with other media such as 
paint and drawings. 

While the distinction between modernist and post-
modernist photography has been a cliche for 
early a decade, many believe that boundaries 
between the two have begun to fade. "I resist the simplicity 
of that dichotomy," said MOMA's Galassi. "For a while 
there was mutual alienation [between self-described mod-
ernists and postmodernists], but it's a crude distinction 
that's becoming less and less useful." 

Yale still draws some criticism from the photography 
world for its conservatism. Papageorge, however, finds Yale's 
focus on traditional techniques a bonus. "Because the pro-
gram is small, it's appropriate for us to be good in one 
thing," Papageorge said. "We can't be all things to all peo-
ple." In addition, he feels that the label "straight photogra-
phy" oversimplifies the philosophy of the department and 
dismisses the creativity that goes on within the limits of tra-
ditional photography. Papageorge encourages students to 
challenge themselves in order to hone their photographic 
vision. "You really don't want to keep doing what you do 
well," he told a student during a critique. "The only way 
you can learn is through a form of self-destruction." 

The work of Party Anos (ART '83), now an instructor 
of introductory-level photography, deviated from straight 
photography even during her years as a Yale graduate stu-
dent. Anos composed a mural collage for her graduate thesis 
project. The collage consisted of several media, including 
photography, paint, and spray paint. "The faculty accept 
work outside the tradition and support it," Anos said. 
"They were able to deal with my work." 

Some members of the department believe that Yale has 
reached a transitional phase. "I think that this year the 
school is starting to break out of its modernist stage," said 
Charlotte Dixon (ART '92). "Postmodernism is pretty 
much dissolving and people are searching for a new idiom." 

Lois Connor (ART '81), now an assistant professor in 
photography, agrees that Yale is expanding beyond its mod-
ernist origins. "My work is certainly rooted in modernist 
tradition, which is why I came to Yale," she said. "The 
whole art school in general is modernist, but it's pushing the 
boundaries." 

Yale's two-year graduate photography program, a 
branch of the School of Art, includes instruction in dark-
room techniques as well as photographic history and criti-
cism. Critiques, where resident and visiting faculty convene 
to discuss students' work, provide a forum for ideas and a 
source of feedback. Generally in a critique, three of the six-
teen graduate students display a dozen of their photographs 
on the bulletin-boarded walls in a basement room of the Art 
and Architecture building. Students discuss each others' 
work, attempting to understand a photograph's message. 

Anos found the critiques essential to her graduate study. "In 
an unfavorable critique, it helped if I distanced myself," she 
remembered. "I found that usually there's a lot of truth to 
what is said." 

Stereotypes of "modernist" and "postmodernist" pho-
tography persist despite a growing conviction that today's 
photographers do not fit into such easy molds. And the 
MOMA exhibition demonstrates that no single style distin-
guishes Yale's graduates from other artists. "People's percep-
tions are that the graduate program is a bastion of straight 
photography," said Papageorge. "The show at MOMA pro-
vides a good example of Yale photography. These photogra-
phers all do straight pictures, unmanipulated, but beyond 
that each has an individual style." Perhaps with the passage 
of what MOMA's Galassi terms the postmodernist "band-
wagon," the photography world will recognize not only 
Yale's excellence within a specific tradition, but also the cre-
ativity and individualism that the school fosters. 

Paulin Chiou is a senior in Jonathan Edwards College.


**Foreign Students: A Rarity at Yale**
**Author: Beth Zasloff**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

"Had I known there were so few international 
students here, I might not have come to 
Yale," said Indian student Rohit Bhanot 
(BK '94). Many foreign students at Yale echo Bhanot's 
sentiments. Compared with other top U.S. universities, 
Yale draws few of its undergraduates from outside North 
America. This fall, President Benno Schmidt asked the 
Committee on Priorities and Planning to study the role 
of foreign students and faculty at Yale. The committee 
hopes to address the issues of limited enrollment and 
financial aid and lack of support systems that have trou-
bled international students at Yale for years. 

Four percent of the class of 1995 comes from outside 
North America. Other Ivy League universities place much 
greater emphasis on bringing foreign students to their 
campuses. The University of Pennsylvania and Harvard, 
for example, identify 12 percent and 7.5 percent respec-
tively of their freshman classes as international. Even Yale's 
figure of 4 percent is inflated. Like other universities, Yale 
defines as "foreign" Americans living abroad or with one 
American parent. Most international students have one or 
two American parents, have studied in the United States, 
or have attended an international high school.


Many international students feel that Yale's tiny popu-
lation of foreign undergraduates undermines the educa-
tional purpose of the university. "This school educates the 
future leaders of America. Yale students are going to have a 
very provincial world view if they're only exposed to other 
Americans," said Lebanese student Zeena Zakharia (BK 
'94), co-president of the International Students 
Organization (ISO). "The subtlety of different values and 
customs isn't something that you can learn from a text-
book, only through personal contact with different people 
from around the world." 

In the race to attract foreign students, Yale falls 
behind at the starting line. Yale does not recruit interna-
tional students as other Ivy League universities do, and it 
relegates its outreach efforts to informal contacts with 
international Yale alumni groups. In contrast, schools like 
the University of Pennsylvania and Brown work intensive-
ly to bring foreign students to their campuses. Penn sends 
recruiters around the world annually. Universities that 
dedicate resources to recruiting top international students 
find that their efforts bring rich rewards. Harvard, for 
example, boasts famous international alumni like Benazir 
Bhutto, former Pakistani prime minister, and Oscar Arias, 
Costa Rican President and Nobel Peace Prize winner. 

If international students chose schools strictly by the 
brochure, then Yale would probably attract even fewer for-
eigners than it does. Students must fill out a preliminary 
application before Yale even sends out a regular applica-
tion. They do not see the glossy brochures that U.S. appli-
cants receive. "It is at this stage that Yale begins to lose out 
in the race to get the best foreign students," said Bhanot. 
"Dartmouth, Brown, and Cornell send excellent view-
books to every applicant. While Harvard is not so gener-
ous, it does send a colorful brochure. The first time I had 
a glimpse of the Yale campus was when I looked up 'Yale 
University' in the Encyclopedia Britannica after being 
accepted." 

Yale's reputation outside North America, Western 
Europe, and China (see story on page 20) suffers because 
of its limited international outreach efforts. "When you 
tell people that you go to school in the States they expect 
you to answer Harvard, Stanford, or Princeton, sometimes 
MIT," said Andrey Ukhov (BK '94), a student from the 
Soviet Union. "But if you say Yale, nobody knows what 
you are talking about." 

Beth Zasloff is a freshman in Pierson College.



**Title: WouLD-BE PoWERBROKERS**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"WouLD-BE PoWERBROKERS 
Emily Baz elon 
'' 
p
articipating in our activities is a way to network 
because it offers connections to powerful peo-
ple," claimed Michael Granston, (LAW '92) 
co-president of a Yale Law School student group called the 
Federalist Society. "A lot of members feel that if they bide 
thei.- time at the law school there are significant dividends at 
the end of the tunnel." 

Granston's claim stands on solid ground. Founded in 
1980 by a group of conservative and libertarian students, 
the Federalist Society now boasts.a national organization 
with such powerful affiliates as Clarence Thomas, Edwin 
Meese, and Robert Bork. Although Federalists may see 
themselves as an embattled mjnority at Yale, their member-
ship offers dazzling career opportunities. At this year's open-
ing banquet, Law School Dean Guido Calabresi offered 
words of support and caution. "It's important that you real-
ize and remember what it's like to be in the minority, 
because in the real world you will be in the majority," said 
Calabresi. 

Weekly discussions on legal and political topics offer 
Federalist Society members relief from the law school's lib-
eral atmosphere. The Federalists also invite professors and 
outside speakers. According to Granston, Federalist meet-
ings allow freer discussion of potentially explosive issues. 
Members wrestle with questions like affirmative action and 
gay rights unconstrained by what they perceive as liberal 
antagonism in the classroom. 

Although conservatives and libertarians dominate, 
Federalists welcome all students, and some liberals and 
moderates do attend. "I like to see the Federalist Society as a 
forum for expressing different points of view," said 
Granston. "We are interested in addressing political and 
legal issues in a more intelligent manner than other stu-
dents, and we happen to be conservative." In a law school of 
600 students, the Society's 62-person mailing list and aver-
age meeting turnout of 25 lend it a significant presence. 

In 1980, a group of conservative students·, led by 
Stephen Calabresi, (MC '80, LAW '83) Dean Calabresi's 
nephew, founded the Federalist Society in order to band 
together against perceived hostility in the law school. At the 
same time, fellow conservatives at the University of Chicago 
took similar steps. "In the late 70s, the students who formed 
the Yale chapter of the Society were genuinely fearful of the 
university's response to their views," said Judge Ralph 
Winter, a professor at the law school. According to Winter,


l some professors allowed liberals to boo those who expressed 
:o conservative views. "This behavior has ceased," said Winter, 

"in part because the Federalist Society pointed it out." 

In the ten years of its existence, Society ranks have 
swelled as the nation has jumped on the conservative band-
wagon. From a small group ofYale and U. Chicago Law 
students, it has mushroomed into a national organization 
with headquarters in Washington D.C. and chapters at over 
100 major universities across the country. The national 
office coordinates speakers and provides funds to its univer-
sity affiliates. It also sponsors a conference each year. 

Neither the national organization nor Yale's branch takes an 
official public stand on political issues such as abortion or 
the nomination of Clarence Thomas. Rather, each furthers 
its conservative and libertarian agenda by fostering a net-
work of judges, politicians, lawyers, and students. 

The Society's agenda places "traditional values" and the 
rule of the law at the center of legal thought. To this end, 
Federal~ts adYocate limited national government, the sepa-
ration of power, states' rights, and adherence to the framers' 
intent in constitutional law. Yet Federalists tip their hat to 
liberal perspectives by sponsoring speakers across the spec-
trum of political opinion. Last year's 1Oth anniversary con-
ference, held at Yale, featured both American Civil Libercies 
Union president Nadine Scrossen and former Attorney 
General Edwin Meese, among others, in a symposium on 
the Bill of Rights. 

Following the lead of the national organization, the 
Yale branch of the Federalist Society invites predominantly 
conservative speakers. This year's list includes law profes-
sors and circuit judges, as well as prominent conservadves 
like Imelda Marcos and Representative Gary Franks 
(R-CT). 

Yale's chapter, however, has shifted slightly to the left of 
the national organization because its presidents for the last 
two years have been libertarian rather than conservative. 
This spring, Yale Federalists plan to bring neat-socialise 
Senator Paul WeJlscone (0-MN) to campus. Granston 
wants to co-sponsor Senator WeUstone's visit with Law and 
Liberadon, a staunchly liberal law school student organiza-
tion. "I actively promote the relationship wich Law and 
Liberation in order to expand our base," said Granston. By 
inviting speakers like Wellstone, Granston hopes to draw 
liberal students to spark debate. "The Federalist Society will 
never be a voice for all students. But I'd like others to come


**Title:  (Untitled)**
**Author:  (No Author Listed)**
**Page number(s): 18**

Co-presidents Kathy Koenig and Michael Cranston hope to give Yale's 
branch of the Federalist Society a Libertarian tilt. 

to our discussions and feel tolerated." 

Lack of tolerance towards conser-
vative views at the law school contin-
ues to irk Federalist Society members. 
Although they believe their organiza-
tion has encouraged freer discourse to 
develop, some still feel under siege. 
"There is a tendency, even now, for 
liberals to shout down conservative 
speakers or call students racist and sex-
ist for taking a non-PC position like 
opposition to affirmative action," 
claimed Federalist Society member 
Eric Nelson (LAW '92). Co-president 
Kathy Koenig (LAW '92) believes that 
the dominant liberal tone of the law 
school can wear on students who hold 
other views. 

David Wycoff (LAW '92), presi-
dent of Law and Liberation, does not 
buy the Federalists' worries about the 
PC-police. "The people who hold so-
called PC views have no power," said 
Wycoff. He also questions conserva-
tives' claims that the liberal tenor of 
discussions marginalizes them. "The 
Law School discourse tends to be lib-
eral, but it's a very wishy-washy sort of 
Liberal," said Wycoff. "Those of us on 
the left are as far from the law school 
mainstream as conservatives. People 
who tend to complain about this usu-
ally can't stand the fact that they're 
being challenged." 

According to several law school 
professors, student reluctance to stray 
from the politically correct line has 
declined, as has the problem of stifled 
dialogue. "The media attention to the 
PC issue over the past year and a half 
seemed to liberate discourse to some 
extent, 
said 
Professor 
Robert 
Ellickson. "I find discussion in class to 
be quite robust." Professor Peter Shuck 
believes that the law school strives to 
foster a wide variety of viewpoints. 



**Title:  Untitled**
**Author:  Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Our faculty tends to probe, test, and 
wrestle with the prevailing liberal agen-
da," he said. 


Shuck deplores the reluctance of 
conservative students to air their 
views publicly. "If students feel 
stifled it's because they don't exercise 
their independent judgment. They are 
unwilling to court disapproval from 
their peers, which is pathetic," said 
Shuck. "Many conservatives don't 
want to stand up and oppose the liber-
al agenda, which I don't respect." 

According to Cranston, some con-
servative students duck controversy in 
law school in order to avoid the label of 
troublemaker. He believes that today's 
conservatives can damage their chances 
for future success by causing controver-
sy. Such students join the Federalist 
Society because it offers a niche in 
which they can state right-wing views 
without provoking negative reaction. 
"In the more liberal atmosphere ofYale 
Law School, you could generate con-
troversy by espousing a view that out-
side of here might be accepted," said 
Cranston. "You still need an untar-
nished reputation to get ahead in the 
job market." However, he admits that 
conservative students are safe given the 
country's political atmosphere. "With 
the current Republican administation, 
conservative students no longer fear 
that their views alone will inhibit their 
life after Yale," he said. 

Shuck and Wycoff doubt that stu-
dents would have a difficult time find-
ing jobs due to the political controver-
sy their conservative views provoke. 
"The idea that holding conservative 
views in any way threatens a student's 
career is preposterous," said Shuck. 
DECEMBER 6, 1991 
Most Yale law students go on to jobs 
in large law firms, clerkships, or 
academia. According to Wycoff, even 
students who enroll with the goal of 
working in public interest law often 
end up gainfully employed in private 
firms. "I find it odd that conservatives 
feel that their views would hurt them 
in corporate America," he said. 

Federalist Society members admit 
that when they pursue clerkships with 
prestigious state or district judges, 
conservative views and Federalist 
Society membership open doors. Eric 
Nelson provides a case in point. His 
affiliation with the Society helped gain 
him a clerkship with Clarence 
Thomas, then a judge on the Federal 
Court of Appeals. "The Federalist 
Society led to an interview for the 
clerkship that I might not otherwise 
have gotten," said Nelson. 

Although the Yale Federalists took 
no official position on the Thomas 
hearings, most law school students 
who vocally supported the judge were 
Federalist Society members. The 
Society plans to create its own alumni 
award and make Thomas the first 
recipient. "We felt Thomas was an 
esteemed alum who had been over-
looked and shafted by the alumni asso-
ciation for being conservative," said 
co-president Koenig. 

As the Federalist Society grows 
older and more well known, its power 
in the world beyond Yale will continue 
to grow, especially if the Republicans 
maintain their hold on national gov-
ernment. "I think that conservative 
judges are on the lookout for 
Federalist Society members from hot-
shot law schools because they want to 
have an ideological fellow feeling with 
their clerks. It's quite a formidable net-
work now that alums are Federal 
judges," said Nelson. "The Society can 
definitely have a beneficial effect on 
your future." 

Emily Bazelon, a junior in Pierson 
College, is associate editor of TNJ.


**Title: BRIDGE TO CHINA**
**Author: Charlotte Brooks**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

the ranks rolled into Tiananmen Square in June 
1989, Yale-China Association teachers watched 
anxiously from their campuses in South China. Their 
own pupils were on strike, and the teachers feared for student 
safety. "Every morning I'd make a show of going to the empty 
classroom so that the leaders couldn't accuse me of supporting 
the students, which might have gotten them into trouble," 
said Michael Wishnie (MC '87), a Yale-China teacher at 
Huazhong Normal University in Wuhan from 1987-89. "My 
days were spent trying to look inconspicuous while watching 
the demonstrations, where the secret police would take my 
picture constantly." 

Soldiers surrounded Wuhan at the same time that the 
army crushed the movement in Tiananmen. "Students 
were afraid that the troops would come into the city and shoot 
them," Wishnie recalled. "Fifty thousand students just got on 
buses, on trains, or walked out of the city. The Yale-China 
teachers decided that it was time to go if the students didn't 
think it was safe enough to stay in Wuhan—it seemed like 
there might actually be civil war. We were totally shell-
shocked, not knowing if our students were alive or dead." 

While Yale-China Association staffers had warned 
Wishnie and his colleagues about arbitrary political repression 
and the low standard of living in the People's Republic of 
China, no one had predicted that student frustration would 
explode with such an impact. Still, to a program whose ideals 
have persevered through nine decades of almost constant hot 
and cold war, the Tiananmen crackdown presented just 
another bump in the road. 

At the turn of the century, a different kind of frustration 
grew into the violent anti-foreign, anti-Christian Boxer 
Uprising. The Western armies that suppressed the movement 
only aggravated the hostile climate in China when they 
imposed a humiliating treaty on the Empire. Still, the alumni 
who founded the Yale Missionary Society in February 1901 
pushed ahead with their plan to bring to China "Christian 
higher education in the arts, sciences, and medicine." 

With a few dedicated Yale alumni and a mostly Chinese 
staff, the Society's middle school opened in 1906. Operating 
out of the former Norwegian consulate building in Changsha, 
Hunan province, the school became known as "Yali" (an early 
Chinese transliteration of Yale). "Yali was patterned on U.S. 
prep schools like Andover and Exeter," said Donald McCabe 
(OE '39), a Yale-in-China teacher from 1940-42. "The stu-
dents who attended were always from Hunan's best families." 

Despite the missionary focus of the society, the trustees 
and school officials did not attempt to force Christianity on 
their students. "We wish to make this college an illustration of 
true Christianity," explained the Yali course catalog. 
"Nevertheless, the students have full liberty to follow their 
own religion." Proselytizing threatened to alienate the conser-
vative provincial and local governments—a foolish move in 
the uncertain political climate that surrounded the last years of 
the Chinese Empire. 

When it opened a hospital in 1907, the Society became 
well-known throughout the Changsha area for its free vaccina-
tions and treatment of opium dependence. Taking advantage 
of its reputation, the Society signaled its intention to stay in 
the city permanently by purchasing a site for a college, a med-
ical prep school, a medical college, and nursing schools. 

Unlike many other missionary schools, the Society wel-
comed Chinese involvement in campus administration. "To 
its credit, Yale-China has spent almost all of its existence 
administering its institutions jointly with the Chinese," said 
R. Anthony Reese (BR '86), a Yale-China administrator and 
former teacher. "By the 1940s, institutions were either run 
entirely by the Chinese or by joint effort." 

The Chinese reciprocated the Americans' tolerance. 
Unlike many other missionary institutions, the Yale-affiliated 
facilities remained physically intact until World War II. 
"Because the program proved its desire to serve and was 
respectful of the Chinese, they accepted it," said McCabe. 
"That's why its buildings survived through the political 
upheavals without getting attacked, looted, or destroyed like 
other foreign-occupied places." 

Such mutual respect reflected the Society's move toward 
secularization. After the turn of the century, evangelical 
Christianity declined in popularity at Yale. To reflect the 
change, its trustees renamed the Society the Yale-in-China 
Association in 1934 and dedicated it to education and Sino-
American relations. "A lot of the guys who went over to China 
weren't terribly religious, even in the early days," explained 
McCabe. "The new name made it official and pushed religion 
onto the back burner." 

After Japan's 1937 invasion of China, the need for sur-
vival replaced lofty ideology. "NO! Yale-in-China is NOT 
closed," reported the Yali Quarterly in 1942. "The urgency of 
the hour and the hope for the morrow justify our resolve. We 
find ourselves engaged upon a vast ministry of relief that can-
not be denied." Determined to continue their mission, the 
Yale-in-China Changsha and Wuhan schools evacuated their 
faculty and equipment to the south and west by barges, carri-
ers, trucks, and on foot. Only the hospital, determined to con-
tinue its work in Changsha, remained in the war-torn city. 
Fearing that the Japanese would bomb their buildings, Yali teachers held classes outdoors near bomb shelters during World War II. 



**Great Coffee, Fine Pastries, Decent People**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
GREAT C OFFEE 
FiNE P ASTRIES 
D ECENT PEOPLE 
776-5063 
COFFEE BEANS AND 
TEAS FROM AROUND 
THE WORLD 
316 ELM STREET 
ACROSS FROM YALE Co-or 
A COFFEEHOUSE FOR YALE 
"Best coffee, cappuccino, caffe mocha and espresso in New Haven." 
-CT Magazine, May 1991 
Smoking and Non-Smoking Sections Available


**Yale-in-China: A 90-Year History**
**Author: Charlotte Brooks**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

"Although the Japanese bombers 
didn't fly over often, we never knew 
when they would come," recalled 
McCabe, who taught at the wartime 
Yuanling location. "Electricity was 
undependable, inflation was rampant, 
and the enemy planes once dropped 
bubonic plague capsules in the rice pad-
dies downriver." 

By the time World War II ended, 
Japanese bombers had reduced many of 
the campus buildings in Changsha and 
Wuhan to rubble. "The immediate 
effort at the end of the war was to repair 
the physical damage and carry on with 
the educational and medical work," said 
·· · Reese. Whjle Yale-in-China rebuilt its 
((The students were 
afraiq, that the troops 
would come into the city 
and shoot them." 
schools, civil war rocked China. 
Victorious Communist armies arrived 
in Changsha in August 1949. Although 
the trustees tried to work with the new 
regime, hostile bureaucrats and radical 
students exacerbated the tension. In the 
end, Communist pressure and the 
Korean War made carrying on impossi-
ble. The skeletal American staff that 
remained after Liberation departed one 
by one. 

But even leaving was not so easy. 
When Dr. Dwight Rugh attempted to 
exit the Mainland in 1951, the govern-
ment held him for a year, subjected him 
to a "denunciation meeting," and finally 
deported him. When he got to the 
Hong Kong border, the PRC guard, a 
Yali Middle School graduate, recognized 
the doctor and waved him through 
without checking his luggage. "In Hong 
Kong, Rugh opened his suitcase and 
discovered that a radio transmitter had 
been planted in it," said Reese. "They'd 
been planning on creating a disturbance 
at the border and perhaps arresting 
him." Rugh's narrow escape brought an 
end to Yale-in-China's first stint on the 
Mainland. 

Yale-in-China chose to start anew 
in Hong Kong and gave monetary and 
faculty support to New Asia College. Set 
up after Liberation by refugee professors 
from the Mainland, New Asia's "cam-
pus" in 1953 consisted of a tiny three-
room flat in the slums of Kowloon, 
Hong Kong. From these inauspicious 
beginnings, New Asia developed into a 
respected institution that numbered 
Yale graduates among its English lan-
guage instructors. When the British 
government united the prestigious col-
lege with two other schools to form the 
Chinese University of Hong Kong in 
1963, Yale-in-China continued to 
administer the New Asia component. 

During the Hong Kong years, the 
trustees renamed the Association once 
again, calling it simply the Yale-China 
Association. 

As it put down new roots in Hong 
Kong, the Association also kept a dose 
watch on the situation in China. The 
Sino-American thaw of the early 1970s 
presented an opportunity to return to 
the mainland, and the Association 
began tentative attempts to restore old 
connections. The United States and 
China officially normalized relations in 
1979, and the first Yale instructors 
arrived in the PRC for tlie 1980 fall 
term. Working as English language 
instructors, the Yale graduates often 
taught in schools with old Yale-in-
China affiliations. 

The PRC, which had been isolated 
from the West for most of the Mao 
Zedong years, challenged the new 
teachers culturally and politically. 
"There were only ten or eleven 
Westerners in the city of a million peo-
ple, so most of our students had no 
experience with foreigners and were very 
curious about us in a friendly way," 
recalled David Jones (PC '80), an 
English language teacher at Changsha's 
1-Iunan Medical University from 1980-
82. "But despite our friends' good will, 
the ebb and flow of the Party's 'Anti-
Spiritual Pollution' and 1\nti-Bourgeois 
Liberalism' campaigns sometimes 
caused problems. Officials would tell 
our students and friends not to have 
anything to do with us except in the 
necessary professional sense." 

Although founded on repression, 
the relative stability of the Communist 
state has enabled Yale-China to put 
down somewhat secure roots on the 
Mainland. The bloody 1989 incidents 
shocked the Association into removing 
its teachers for a st;mester, but they 
returned in the spring of 1990. "The 
difficulties posed by the Tiananmen 
((There were only ten or 
eleven Ulesterners in the 
city of a million people. >> 
crackdown were extreme but not 
unique," explained Reese. "The political 
situation is a recurring issue that all of 
the U.S.-Chinese exchange programs 
have to address." 

Indeed, the upheaval in China 
shows no signs of ending. The immi-
nent death of the country's elderly but 
powerful leader, Deng Xiaoping, could 
provoke another round of protests, 
demonstrations, or civil unrest. "Events 
on the Mainland will continue to pre-
sent difficult issues and create problems 
for the Yale-China participants," said 
Reese. "The program is extremely 
rewarding, but not always easy or com-
fortable. There are times when seeing it 
through to the end requires some com-
mitment to the idea of providing a ser-
vice." After 90 years in tumultuous 
China, the Association continues to 
cherish that ideal. 
mJ 
Char/ott~ Brooks, a junior in Piason 
Co/kg~. is on th~ staff ofTNJ.


HARRY L'S 
For Men 
and Women 
821f2WaliSt. {865-9187)•19 Broadway {865-9182) 
We carry Nexxus, Sebastian, 
KMS and Paul Mitchell Products. 
No Appointment Necessary


NAPLES PIZZA 
RESTAURANT 
breakfast • lunch • dinner • late snacks 
M-Th 7 am- 1 am 
F-S 7 am- 2 am 
Sun 10 am- 1 am 
90WALLST. 
NEW HAVEN 
776-9021


Stumble upon 
. .r the 
Unexpected 
918 Wlta/ky Aw., 397·8162



**Brave New "Disneyworld"**
**Author: Kate Brezuster**
**Page number(s): 24**

B
iosphere 2, the $150 million greenhouse in Arizona 
that encloses a miniature world, seems at least as far 
from Yale's lnstit;ute for Biospheric Studies as Tucson 
is from New Haven. Earlier this falf the Biospherians waved 
to cameras as they sealed themselves inside their 3.15 acre 
domicile, while the Yale Institute for Biospheric Studies 
quietly took up residence in Osborn Memorial Laboratory. 
About the same time 
that Yale's new institute 
awarded 15 graduate 
research prizes, the 
Biospherians harvested 
their first kumquats-, 
grown in a completely 
self-contained environ-
ment. Strangely, enough 
both the research prizes 
and the kumquats ulti-
mately owe their exis-
tence to the bottomless 
pocketbook of Edward 
Bass (TD '68), the self-
described "ecopreneur" 
from Texas. 

Bass has used his 
millions-profits from 
his family's oil business 
and from his ranches in 
Australia-to become 
the nation's largest pri-
vate sponsor of environ-
mental research. Other 
Bass family gifts to Yale, 
from Edward's father 
and brothers, funded a 
new science building 
and professorships in 
the humanities. With 
Edward's $20 million 
gift in May 1990, Yale 
founded an interdisci-
plinary institute for the 
study of the global envi-
ronment. Yale's new 
program draws not only 
from natural science departments and graduate schools, but 
also from SOM and the law school, to support research and 
teaching about ecosystems and global change. 

Edward Bass's life story sets him apart from the rest of 
his family. In the early 1970s, adrift in New Mexico after 
two years at the Yale School of Architecture; he encountered 
the spiritual father of Biosphere 2-John Allen, a guru with 
a Harvard MBA who 
~ founded a commune in 
~ the desert. Refugees 
!'! from the degraded state 
-i. of Western Civilization 
l sought an enlightened 
i renewal in his com-
~ mune, named Synergia 
~ Ranch. Bass spent some 
~ time at the ranch's 
~ drama workshops, then 
~ gave his financial sup-
~ port to their work. 
Synergia ranch hands 
soon found employ-
ment helping Bass 
build condominiums in 
Santa Fe. 

Biosphere 
2, 
Bass's baby since 1984, 
evolved out of this har-
monic convergence of 
cult and capital. Space 
Biospheres Ventures 
(SBV), the project's 
parent 
company, 
employs John Allen as 
its research and devel-
opment director, while 
Bass serves as chairman 
of the board. A host of 
other former Synergists 
remain 
closely 
involved. 

Biosphmans harvest produce from their agricultural pwt. 
SBV has worked 
hard for acceptance 
from the scientific 
community, sponsor-



**Biosphere 2: A Controversial Eden**
**Author: Kate Brewster**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ing conferences and enlisting project managers from the 
Smithsonian and prominent research universities. But it has 
worked even harder for public approval. Although Edward 
Bass himself allegedly keeps the lowest profile of any of his 
family, Biosphere 2 has steeped itself in public relations 
from its inception, courting media attention on a massive 
scale. 

Reporters, like the public, have fallen hard for the 
romantic vision of a man-made world. Stories in dozens of 
publications have played up the irresistible details: the five 
biomes (savannah, rain forest, fog desert, salt marsh, and 
ocean), the tiny plot of intensive agriculture, the miniature 
pigs, goats, and chickens, and the 3800 species of plants 
sealed inside. Skeptics as well as supporters of the project 
call it provocative, exciting, even revolutionary-a dry run 
for a space station or a mission to Mars, and a priceless 
..,pportunity to learn about the ecosystems of Biosphere 1 
(Earth) by trying to reproduce them. 

But more mainstream scientists, among them promi-
nent former Biosphere employees, level fierce criti-
cism at Biosphere 2. "The entire project is naive. It's 
trendy ecological entertainment-New Age science," David 
Stumpf, Biosphere's former air-quality task manager, told 
the San Francisco Examiner. His resignation in 1988 was 
part of a parade of disillusioned specialists' departures. 
Another who left was Walter Adey, director of Marine 
Systems Labs at the Smithsonian. "Biosphere had the 
potential to be the most important scientific project of the 
latter half of the century," Adey told the Examiner. "They 
simply underrated the difficulties of the project." 

Both sides of the controversy cite ideological differences 
between Biosphere's no-holds-barred approach and the 
more painstaking methods traditional science has taken 
towards recreating ecosystems. Ongoing efforts in tradition-
al research cannot hope to compete for attention. NASA, 
for instance, is working on small chambers containing 
chemically reproduced environments, which it hopes will be 
ready for testing by humans in 1995. 

Yale's Institute for Biospheric Studies aligns itself with 
NASA's more conventional approach. Bass's gift funds reno-
vations in OML, endows the directorship of the Peabody 
Museum, and forges ties with the Smithsonian and the New 
York Botanical Garden. But the Institute does not express 
any embarrassment at its benefactor's other biospheric ven-
ture. Graduate students use Biosphere 2 data in several 
research projects, and the School of Forestry and 
Environmental Studies is conducting a study of the carbon 
cycle in the miniature world. "Biosphere's potential is 
tremendous, because you have tremendous controls," said 
Professor Kristiina Vogt of the School of Forestry. "If you 
study a natural system, it's very difficult to control." Vogt 
said scientists can draw more conclusive results from experi-
ments in ecosystems whose every variable can be isolated 
and adjusted. "It's an interesting 
approach that most people can't 
afford." 

Biosphere 2 can afford just 
about anything. Not only has Bass 
endowed the project with almost 
limitless resources, but Space 
Biospheres Ventures designed it to 
turn a profit. Some critics have 
described the vast complex sur-
rounding Biosphere as a theme 
park. Tourists can look through 
observation windows into most of 
the habitats, buy T-shirts in the gift 
shop, sample the Biosphere Cafe's 
casual blend of southwestern and 
Continental cuisine, or even spend 
a night in the Inn at the Biosphere. 

In a rare interview about Biosphere 
2 this September, Bass told the New 
York Times: "It has been said in an 
accusatory fashion that this is not 
science or research, that this is a 
Disneyland. Well, it certainly is. 
It's built to attract people, to be 
accessible to people, to be fun." 

Skeptics charge that the fun, if 
not the tourist revenues, may 
soon come to an end. A recent 
article in the Village Voice accused 
top Biosphere management of bla-
tant fraud. SBV had violated its 
central premise, the Voice claimed, 
by enlisting the help of a machine 
in an organic cycle. The article 
described SBV's scramble to install 
a carbon dioxide "scrubber" inside 
the Biosphere, out of reporters' 
sight, when they discovered just 
before they sealed the Biosphere 
that natural processes could not sus-
tain air quality. Numerous sources, 
many anonymous, claimed that 
those who knew about the scrubber 
were 
sworn 
to 
secrecy. 
The 
Biospherians went in with the 
understanding, carefully concealed 
from the media, that even with the 
scrubber's help they would never 
make it through the planned two 
years. 

Space Biospheres Ventures insists 
that the carbon dioxide level remains 
high but healthy and has responded 
well to "ecological management tech-
niques," which include "some 
mechanical assistance." SBV's mighty 
public-relations engine, at least, con-
tinues to churn along. "Imagine a 
Biosphere ... " begins an awestruck 
SBV pamphlet, which features pho-
tographs of the Biospherians, spiffily 
dressed in red Star Trek suits, harvest-
ing corn and smiling at tourists 
through the glass. An upbeat report 
released November 1 said the only 
unforeseen problem involved a rice 
hulling device that chopped off the 
tip of Biospherian Jane Poynter's fin-
ger. Aside from her five-hour absence 
for hand surgery in Tucson, all the 
Biospherians have been carrying out 
their planned duties. 

"Biosphere 2 may prove to be the 
Kitty Hawk of biospheric life-support 
systems," Bass told the New York 
Times. He added that in retrospect, 
NASA's lunar program in the 60s was 
as vulnerable to charges of cultism as 
Biosphere 2. Whatever happens, the 
rest of the story will make for com-
pelling press-even if the public and 
the media grow more reluctant to buy 
the glitz. If carbon dioxide levels force 
the Biospherians to emerge in a blaze 
of humiliation before the end of 
1991, will quieter pioneers like Yale's 
Institute for Biospheric Studies be 
able to salvage the credibility of 
America's leading ecopreneur? 

Kate Brewster, a junior in Silliman 
College, is on the staff of TNJ.


**Title: AFTERTHOUGHT-------------------------Community Policing: On The Neighborhood Beat**
**Author: Andrew Michaelson**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
D uring my s~nior year of c~llege •. I decided I wani:ed 
to be a poltce officer. Thts destre grew out of vol-
unteer work at Dwight Hall and developed during 
a summer at Logan Airport, where I worked with state 
troopers, DEA agents in dark suits and sunglasses, and 
small-town police officers. Police work seemed like a great 
life, a way to do well by doing good. All of the community 
development types I knew from Dwight Hall seemed so 
driven; they all had that awful something-is-hanging-over-
my-head look, which (having written a senior essay) I want-
Small acts of defiance undermine the 
order of neighborhoods-they send the 
message to the community that 
citizens who play by the rules are saps. 
ed to escape. I marveled at the fact that at 4:00 (or 1600, 
depending on one's world view), the state troopers went 
home and, apparently, left their work at the office. I had 
never heard of anyone doing that before. 

Police work played into my beliefs that building com-
munities was important, meaningful work. And it seemed 
like a steady job, an important consideration in a pre-gradu-
ation world of economic recession, internships, externships, 
and temporary stints in investment brokerages. My father 
would have preferred business school. "You might like it," 
he said. "It's very creative." I demurred and indicated that I 
would be miserable in the business life. "But," he suggested, 
"you could give to society. You could do what your Uncle 
Richard does." My Uncle Richard is vice president of 
Corning. I didn't think they wo1:1ld offer me that out of 
graduate school. I demurred again. 

But joining a police force meant leaving New Haven ifl 
wanted to escape machine-dominated administrations and 
police forces tied up in politics. I had begun to realize that I 
would miss the city terribly. I also knew that I would need 
not only to leave New Haven but to go far, far from New 
England. 

This requires a little explanation. After 30 years of 
police reform, most police agencies nationwide have 
divorced themselves from political control. Some depart-
ments ignore not only politicians but just about everyone. 
Separation of police and politics never quite happened in 
New England. Instead, old Yankee ward leadership has pret-
ty much retained control over the day-to-day operations ·of 
most departments. 

New Haven fits perfectly into this pattern. Innumerable 
minor sources of power, legitimacy, and comfort fraction 
this 21-square-mile city into 30 aldermanic wards and God-
knows-how-many sub-neighborhoods (43 by my last 
count), but they also form strong bonds between people, 
place and position. Ask any alder whether she's interested in 
the future of the city and she'll tell you, completely 
unashamed, Hell no, lm woking out for my ward. 

It took me four years at Yale investigating things like the 
Nighthawks playoffs and the Shameful and Ridiculous 
Budget of the Board of Education to understand New 
Haven's politics. New Haven became smaller and smaller-
everybody knew everybody else. Everyone had some deal 
going down in their little fiefdom that they didn't want to 
give up. New Haven was, and is, a machine city, and the 
machine ran in full gear then. Each ward was a well-greased 
cog in a machine built to protect the interests of the city's 
fragile and deeply interdependent coalition of powerbrokers. 


---

The death of Vinnie Mauro changed all that. 
~ Mauro, killed in a 1989 highway accident, ruled the 
~ Democratic party. He single-handedly built a citywide 
~ slate of aldermanic leadership known, cynically, as the 
;; Democrats For The Future. Mauro intended them to 
J be just the opposite: a slate of alders who would stay 
Jl out of Mayor DiLieto's way and allow him to nourish 
~his coalition of old-money Democrats, development 
] interests, and neighborhood-based party hacks. 

u 
The Mayor ran the city through innumerable low-
level bureaucrats whom he easily bought and even 
more easily dragged into a cycle of dependence. It was 
a beautiful system, but it relied on the awesome 
charisma of Mayor DiLieto (who could charm your 
socks off between drags o n his ever present Winstons) 
and the ruthlessness of Chairman Mauro. 

With Mauro's death, the fabric of the party began 
to fray at the edges. The subsequent, sudden depar-
ture of Mayor DiLieto allowed an unprepossessing, 
honest Stare Senator to become the city's first black 
mayor. With John Daniels came a series of bureau-
cratic appointments that, alchough they lacked the 
flair, polish, and killer instincts of the previous 
administration, represented the city, for better or for 
worse. 

r was exciting. Everyone sensed the colossal 
impossibility of actually running a city by consen-
sus among the disenchanted grassrooters who 
elected the mayor. Bur ir all looked like irresistible 
entertainment. And it seemed like a noble project, the 
re-enfranchisement of literaily half of New Haven. 

At this time, I knew of the New Haven Police 
Department only through a study I had done of them the 



**Title: Policing the Community**
**Author: Andrew Michaelson**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
diverse community. Officers certainly 
have the law at their disposal. The law 
often proves effective, especially when 
brought co bear on drug dealers, wife 
barterers, and others whose daily rou-
tines involve.systematic dehumaniza-
tion and death-peddling. The law has 
less power to stop crimes that actually 
disturb the community the most. 

Police worry about violent crimes like 
murder; but it's the petty crimes like 
vandalism that make people worry 
that their neighborhoods are out of 
control. Those small acts of defiance 
undermine the order of neighbor-
hoods-they send the message to the 
community that citizens who play by 
the rules are saps. 

Accordingly, police need more 
sophisticated tools to muster the com-
munity's support. Without the mobi-
lization of New Haven's neighbor-
hoods, those venues for self- and com-
munity-expression, the police depart-
ment has little chance of inspiring self-
reliance. 

Community policing is no more 
than quality police work that takes 
advantage of the city's essence, its 
minute sources of identity. I'm lucky 
to be here. Whatever problems we 
have within the agency, the funda-
mental source of our legitimacy-
the neighborhoo d-is stro ng in 
New H aven, and we'll make it 
stronger. 

li1J 
Andr~w Micha~lson (CC '90) is th~ 
Assistant Piann~r for th~ N~w Havm 
D~artmmt of Poliu Sn-viu. 
DECEMBER 6, 1991 



.Jfappy .Jfolidays from all of us at 
bookhaven 

OUR NEW PAPERBACK RELEASES MAKE GREAT 
GIFTS FOR EVERYONE ON YOUR LIST 

1991 Nobel Prize-winner Nadine Gordimer's 
My Son's Story 

Salman Rushdie's fanciful tale for all ages 
Haroun and the Sea of Stories 

Charles Johnson's National Book Award-winning 
.The Middle Passage 

Gabriel Garcia Marquez's life of Simon Bolivar 
The General in his Labyrinth 

Ray Monk's definitive biography 
Ludwig Wittgenstein 

AND 

CALENDARS, NEW HARDCOVER FICTION AND 
NON-FICTION, M YSTERIES, HUMOR, 
COOKBOOKS, POETRY, .ART, PHOTOGRAPHY, 
AND CHILDREN'S BOOKS 

290 York Street 
787-2848 
Holiday Hours: Dec.16-23 
1 Oam-8pm Mon.-Sat. 
12pm-5pm Sunday 
THE NEw jouRNAL 31 


LJ 
0 
0 c 
Portrait 
Photography 
1 Hour 
Color Print 
Film 
Developing 
............ ' .................................................................................... . 
AREA'S MOST EXCITING PHOTO CENTER 
0 ~--------~------~----------------------------~
~ DDDDDDD 
::J 
0 ~--------~------------~--~--~~~------~----
DOWNTOWN 
930 Chapel Street 
(Corner of Temple) 
New Haven, CT•624-2599 
WESTVILLE 
1440 Whalley Avenue 
(Jet. of Rts. 63 & 69, Exit 59 off Merritt) 
New Haven, CT•389-1447 

