Publication date: NOVEMBER 30, 1998
Volume: 31
Issue number: 3

**MASTHEAD:**
- **PUBLISHER:** Justin Smits
- **EDITOR-IN-CHIEF:** Laini Erutkow
- **MANAGING EDITORS:** Danko Keijzer, Jessica Winter
- **DESIGNER:** Hrishikesh Hirway
- **PRODUCTION MANAGER:** David Sifta
- **BUSINESS MANAGER:** Julia Rut
- **ONLINE EDITOR:** John Bullard
- **ACCOUNTS MANAGER:** Navin Manglani
- **ASSOCIATE EDITOR:** Eli Jantsch
- **RESEARCH DIRECTORS:** Michael Gerber, Andrew Young
- **CIRCULATION AND SUBSCRIPTIONS MANAGERS:** Jess Champagne, Ronen Givony
- **STAFF:** Vanessa Agard-Jones • Jan Blater • Daniel Brook • Jo Cooksey • Jason D'Cruz • Anya Kamenetz • Monica Kim • Eric Rothfelder • Alan Schorr • Ben Smith • John Swansburg • Lisa Taft • Lit Wang • Heidi Vogt • Jada Yuan
- **ALUMNI DIRECTORS:** Emily Budson • Constance Clement • Peter B. Cooper • Tom Griggs • Brooks Kelley • Henry Schwab • Elizabeth Sledge • Gabriel Snyder • Fred Straigh • Thomas Strong
- **ALUMNI:** Richard Blow • Jay Carney • Richard Conniff • Ruth Conniff • Elisha Cooper • Lauren Rabin • Steven Weisman • Daniel Yergin
- **FRIENDS:**  Sent Ballou • Arnold M. Beard, Jr. • Bruce Bernsen • Edward B. Bernsen, Jr. • Edward B. Bernsen III • Paul S. Bernsen • Gerald Brandt • Lyman Burrough • Dr. Carney • Daphne Day • Josh Chernoff • Jonathan M. Darnell • Constance and George Cooper • Paul B. Cooper • Andy Cowan • Jenny and Rao Coun • Mimi DeKlerk • Allen J. Fain • Mrs. Howard Fain • David Fialkoff • George Fried • Amelia Gebhardt • Sharin Goldman • David Gordon • Tom Griggs • Stephen Hellman • James Jarmulsky • Brooks Kelley • Robert Kennicott • Andrew J. Kumaki, Jr. • Lewis E. Luman • Jean L. Duff • E. Nobles Duff • Hank McNabb • Martha E. Neil • Penn Neil • Howard H. Newman • Sean O'Brien • Julie Peretz • Lewis and Joan Perl • Josh Perl • Julia Preston • Lauren Rabin • Fairfax C. Randall • Radin Riggs • Matt Rindfuss • Nicholas X. Risopoulos • Stuart Rohm • Arther and Arthur Sop • Oded and Debbie Stern • Richard Shields • W. Hampton Sides • Lisa Silverman • Erwin and William Slesinger • Thomas Stone • Elizabeth Tuck • Alan and Stacy Tordoff • Melissa Turner • Allen and Sarah Wardwell • David Yergin and Andrea Stilts Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

features
6 Fathers and Sons - John Swansburg
8 School Crossing - Daniel Brook
12 The Omnimpotent - Ian Blecher
16 Vantage - Lincoln Else
20 Automatics for the People - Laini Erutkow and Ben Smith
32 Cultural Capital - Eric Rothfeder
4 A Quick Fix - Jada Yuan
Symptoms of the Flu - Makiko Harunari
Points of Departure
34 Between the Vines: Misreading - Blake Charlton
36 The Critical Angle: A Land in Full - Ronen Givony
38 Endnote: Good News - Andrew Young


**Title: Fathers and Sons**
**Author: John Swansburg**
**Page number(s): 6**
Leo Tolstoy and his son Ilya dreamt of new havens.


**Title: School Crossing**
**Author: Daniel Brook**
**Page number(s): 8**
Project Choice allows suburban students to attend 
New Haven schools, but the color line remains intact.


**Title: The Omnimpotent**
**Author: Ian Blecher**
**Page number(s): 12**
Hotel workers have voted to unionize, but management is stalling.


**Title: Vantage**
**Author: Lincoln Else**
**Page number(s): 16**
Strut photography brings a new perspective 
to the lives of the Big Apple's citizens.


**Title: Automatics for the People**
**Author: Laini Erutkow and Ben Smith**
**Page number(s): 20**
Two students go comparison shopping in New Havens 
legal and illegal gun markets.


**Title: Cultural Capital**
**Author: Eric Rothfeder**
**Page number(s): 32**
New Havens interest in the arts may be solely financial.


**Title: A Quick Fix**
**Author: Jada Yuan**
**Page number(s): 4**
Police are using first aid tactics to shut down prostitution, 
but the wounds might run too deep.


**Title: Symptoms of the Flu**
**Author: Makiko Harunari**
**Page number(s):  (Not specified)**
Asian currency depreciations force students to make unexpected sacrifices.


**Title: Between the Vines: Misreading**
**Author: Blake Charlton**
**Page number(s): 34**


**Title: The Critical Angle: A Land in Full**
**Author: Ronen Givony**
**Page number(s): 36**


**Title: Endnote: Good News**
**Author: Andrew Young**
**Page number(s): 38**



**Faith No More**
**Author: Anya Kammetz**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Faith No More 
As church bells pealed through the Silli-
man courtyard, I sat down for a conversation 
with Chris Mooney (SM '99), one of the lead-
ers of the Yale Society of Humanists, Atheists 
and Agnostics (YSHM). More than fifty sim-
ilar groups have been established on campuses 
nationwide in the last year in association with 
the Council for Secular Humanism. The 
YSHAA's unremarkable mission is to advance 
free and rational thought, but the activities 
they organize to secure Yale for the godless 
seem bizarre to the uninitiated. 


The group's activist agenda includes a 
campaign against Yale's mandatoty Freshman 
Assembly, because it involves prayer. 
They also want Yale to install a 
secular chaplain. "We actually 
have someone lined up to fill this 
position-a member of the 
_.. ........., _ _... 
American Humanist Associ-
ation," said Mooney. "We want someone 
who would be useful to show that Yale 
respects all modes of thought." 


The YSHAA held a Superstition Bash 
on Cross Campus on Friday, November 
13. Brave Yale students tested their fate by 
walking under a huge ladder and Mooney 
smashed a mirror while spilling salt over 
both shoulders at 13:13 {1:13 p.m.}. 


The organization also aims to create a 
community of non-believers. At this point 
Mooney's efforts consist largely of a weekly 
keg party in his suite, which is decorated with 
an eight-inch squeaking nun and posters bear-
ing legends )ike "HELL? NO, WE WON'T GO!" 
and "Anti-Priest, Pro Altar-Boy." 


The society does have more serious goals. 
"The main concerns of the association are 
separation of church and state and First 
Amendment rights." Mooney also sees a con-
nection between "free-thinkers" and a variety 
of other causes on campus. ~The homosexuals 
have it even worse than we do, and we have a 
common enemy in the church. But it's hard 
to form alliances since, if you're gay, about the 
only thing that could be worse would be to 
come out as godless, too." 


The journey towards unbelief was a short 
one for Mooney, who grew up amidst the 
miasma of Catholicism and bacchanalia that 
is New Orleans. Reared by an atheist family, 
he recalls feeling different from all the other 
families in his neighborhood, where the Vir-
gin Mary was a popular lawn ornament. "But 
the time that I realized there was no God 
acutely was when I was a junior or senior in 
high school. It mattered to me a lot because I 
was really unhappy and angry, and being mad 
at religion was one way to get it out." 


I asked Mooney how he evolved his phi-
losophy of tolerance and openness out of this 
initial anger and prejudice. "Yeah, it took a 
long time," he admits. "But 
I 
think 
with 
rational 
th~ught anyone would get 
there eventually." This para-
dox seems endemic to the 
entire movement: a collec-
tion of "free thinkers" united 
by vitriol against the foolishly 
superstitious. When I asked if 
Mooney would like to see all 
organized religion eradicat-
ed, he demurred, saying, "That 
would be a fascist goal. I'm not a fascist." 


But when pressed he admits, "I think it 
would be better." 


Although a march against Batte! 
Chapel would surely generate controversy, 
YSHM currently might be said to suffer from 
a lack of opposition. "Secular humanists love 
America. At least, the one that got founded. If 
you look at the great thinkers of the Enlight-
enment, all their arguments and conceptions 
of human rights and maximizing happiness-
we're just kicking ourselves that we're not in 
the Enlightenment now." Yale's Campus Cru-
sade for Christ's efforts notwithstanding, 
rationalism and empiricism overrule piety 
inside classrooms and out. Nevertheless, 
Mooney sees his organization as part of the 
old guard against a rising wave of dangerous 
mysticism. "I think there's a potential to enter 
a new Enlightenment, but also a new Middle 
Ages." He reads me a quote from Carl Sagan, 
one of the patron saints of his movement: 
"It's a foreboding I have, maybe ill-placed, 
of an America in my children's generation, or 
my grandchildren's generation, when, clutch-
ing our crystals and religiously consulting our 
horoscopes, our critical faculties in steep 
decline, unable to distinguish between what's 
true and what feels good, we slide, almost 
without noticing, into superstition and dark-
ness. " 
-Anya Kammetz


**Holy Land, U.S.A.**
**Author: Heidi Yao**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

Holy Land, U.S.A. 
It's a typical case of bringing the moun-
tain to Mohammed. As long as the mountain 
is plaster of Paris and Mohammed is a fanny-
packed fortysomething. · 
It's "Holy Land, U.SA." 
· These brightly lit words and accompany-
ing 50-foot high cross shine down on Inter-
state 84 near Waterbury, beckoning motorists 
to find their salvation on top of Pine Hill. It's 
an enticement to the kitsch-loving imagina-
cion. 


John Greco (lAW '25) started building 
Holy Land in 1956 as an alternative pilgrim-
age for the devout who couldn't afford to 
make the trip to Jerusalem. Greco bought the 
17-acre plot for $13,000, then began to build 
his city. Soon Pine Hill began to fill with 
poured concrete Virgin Marys, mannequins 
dressed as saints, pipe railings, and all sizes of 
decorative plastic flowers. Walking through 
Holy Land is like a trip through a fonune 
cookie factory, with pithy sayings like "The 
world is fragile, handle with prayer" at every 
turn. Greco forged his miniature Jerusalem 
out of other people's garage sale junk .. 


And they carne. 


In the early '80s, the amusement park-like 
shrine welcomed 40,000 disciples a day, often 
arriving in bus-loads. Donations from visiting 
tourists paid for the upkeep and expansion of 
Holy Land, and Greco added items: every-
thing from concrete grottoes to the Dead Sea. 
With the new funds, Greco created a 200-foor 
long replica of the catacombs, then a minia-
ture of the villages of the 12 tribes oflsrael. 
All this "for the glory of God," according 
to Greco. As a child, Greco wanted to become 
a priest, but he opted for a more lucrative 
career as a lawyer. Holy Land was Greco's con-
tribution to the fa.ith. He chose Pine Hill 
because the terrain bn the hilltop reminded 
him of Palestine. 


Holy Land's heyday ended in the mid-
'80s as Greco (who was 70 when he started 
the project) became too frail to maintain the 
site himself any longer. Holy Land withered 
with Greco, closing its gigantic gate to the 
public when Greco became too ill to supervise 
the project. Those who heed the call today 
and make the pilgrimage will find that the 
largest replica of Jerusalem this side of, well, 
anywhere, has been all but worn away by 
mother nature. 


Greco died in 1986, leaving Holy Land in 
the charge of the same order of nuns that had 
cared for him in his last days, the Religious 
Teachers Filipini. Today's Holy Land hosts 
graffiti and beer bottles instead of worship-
pers. The sisters currently have plans for the 
crumbling Holy Land, but aren't discussing 
what form their repairs will take. While the 
future of Holy Land is being decided, the sis-
ters concentrate on keeping the cross lit, giv-
ing commuters below a little kitsch to ponder, 
if nothing else. 
-H~idi Y&gt 


**The Lady Vanishes**
**Author: Alan Schomfeld**
**Page number(s): 5**

The Lady Vanishes 
When the city of New Haven demolished 
the old Malley's 4epartment store on the cor-
ner of Church and George Streets, it 
destroyed a landmark more than a century 
old. In its place now sits a gaudy sign welcom-
ing visitors to "New Haven: An All-American 
City." 


But beneath the empty lot lurks a mystery 
that has haunted the city since before the turn 
of the century-the unsolved murder of 20 
year old Jennie E. Cramer. 


In 1881, New Haven was the quintessen-
tial New England city: refined women and 
men paraded down tree-lined streets, the 
economy boomed, and the city bustled with 
the intellectual life its prized university pro-
vided. On August 6, however, the city was 
shaken from its Victorian complacency by the 
discovery of a grisly and mysterious murder. 


A pamphlet published after the murder 
testifies to the charms of the victim, a middle 
class girl: "She was well-known and well-liked 
for her beauty, which was undoubtedly strik-
ing, and for her high spirits and good compa-
ny, although she was not well educated, nor 
particularly attractive mentally." 


One of Cramer's most persistent admirers 
was James Malley, Jr., the nephew of Edward 
Malley, namesake and owner of the famous 
Malley's Department store. As the story goes, 
Cramer and Malley spent the evening of 
Wednesday, August 3, with Walter Malley, 
James's cousin, and Walter's friend Blanche 
Douglass. 


When Cramer did not return home that 
night, her mother was frantic. She interrogat-
ed the Malley boys and Douglass about her 
daughter's whereabouts. Douglass said that 
the two had spent the previous evening at the 
Elliot Boarding House for Women, but that 
they had split up that morning. The Malley 
boys sent a note to Mrs. Cramer saying that 
they had not seen her daughter. 


Two days later, Cramer's body was discov-
ered by a fisherman, Asa Curtiss, near Savin 
Rock on the Long Island Sound. The autopsy 
revealed that she had not drowned. She bad 
been poisoned with laudanum. 


According to court documents, an investi-
gation began promptly, and the Malley boys 
and Douglass were the first witnesses called in 
for questioning. All three denied having seen 
Cramer after the evening of August 3, and 
families and friends provided alibis for the 
threesome starting the morning of August 4. 
When Douglass was questioned further, how-
ever, she revealed that she had lied about her 
and Cramer's whereabouts: they had spent the 
evenings of August 3 and August 5 at the 
Malley mansion. 


On August 15, New Haven police arrest-
eel both Malley boys and Douglass. Edward 
Malley promptly offered a $1000 reward for 
information leading to the apprehension of 
the "real" murderer. The New Haven com-
munity was outraged at the elder Malley's 
involvement in the inquiry, and became suspi-
cious of the slow pace of the investigation. 


The Nau Havm Unum accused the police 
department of "masterful inactivity" and 
argued forcefully that it was "no time for dilly 
dallying." 


The New Haven coroner's jury, the equiv-
alent of today's grand jury, accused the three-
some of "not having fear of God before their 
eyes, but being moved and seduced by the 
instigation of the devil, wickedly contriving 
one Jennie Cramer, late of said town of New 
Haven, with poison willfully, feloniously and 
of their malice aforethought to kill and mur-
der." The trial date was set for June, 1882. 


In the interim, the Cramer story explod-
ed, gaining regional attention and appearing 
repeatedly on the front page of the Nau 111rk 
Tim~s. All the makings of a good story were 
there: power, money, and se:x. Pictures of the 
victim abounded in New Haven. In April, a 
pamphlet appeared that implicated the Malley 
family in the crime. Although the Malleys 
asked their servants to buy up the pamphlet, 
several copies found their way into the pub-
lic's hands, and the demand was so great that 
it went into a second printing. 


Afrer a trial of nearly three months, both 
Malley boys and Douglass were acquitted. 


The people of New Haven osrracized the 
Malley family, suspecting their involvement in 
the murder. People refused to shop at their 
store and the Malleys were rebuffed by the 
society that had once revered them. "The 
incident helped focus the community on the 
pervasive class divisions in· New Haven," said 
history professor Robin Winks, who lectured 
on the Cramer murder to the New Haven 
Colony Historical Society last October. 


"A woman who used to teach English at 
Yale was walking down the street with a Mal-
ley's bag and someone approached her and 
said, 'You must be new here. It's not proper to 
shop at Malley's-people around here don't 
go there anymore,'" said fames Campbell of 
the New Haven Colony Historical Society. 


Malley's might have been replaced by the 
"All-American City," but beneath the facade 
lie 
unanswered 
questions-the 
murder 
remains unsolved. 
-Alan Schomfild 


**Untitled**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 6**

''All 
happy families resemble each other," writes Sofya in a 
curling cyrillic script, beginning to copy the manuscript 
her husband has just handed her. The work is arduous: 
many words have been furiously scratched out, margin 
corrections have been recorrected, and arrows ·point lost words home-. 
ward. She may be the only person who can decipher the mess made by 
her husband's brilliance. Her hand, perhaps, still aches from transcrib-
ing W?tr and Peace. She did it seven times. 


She also bore Count Leo 
Tolstoy 13 children, six of 
whom would not live to see 
their father die. That she was 
fiercely devoted to her husband 
and his art is without question; 
that she was severely mentally 
ill in the final years of her life is 
also doubtless, though not nec-
essarily a consequence of her 
devotion. The same passion 
that made Countess Sofya 
Andreyevna Tolstoy a brilliant 
scribe made her a ruthless 
administrator of her household 
in the closing years of Leo Tol-
stoy's life. The aging Sofya grew 
suspicious of her husband 
(though his octagenarian frame 
could hardly have sustained disloyalty). She kept her physically ailing 
husband awake at night with the racket of her mental maladies: the 
slamming drawers and doors of her searches for the evidence of her hus-
band's betrayal. She rarely slept. Tolstoy wrote in his diary (presumably 
the one for which she searched in vain), "Day and night, she has to 
know my every word and deed, and have everything under her con-
trol." It is because of his wife's illness that Tolstoy's biographies invari-
ably end under the same chapter heading: "Escape." 


On October 28, 1910, at three o'clock in the morning, Leo Tolstoy 
awoke in his bedroom at Yasnaya Polyana, the Tolstoy estate in the sub-
urbs of Moscow, and, deciding he could no longer live under the terror 
of his wife's rule, he began preparations to slip out from under her iron 
fist. The house was unusually still. Sofya had finally fallen asleep after 
stirring all night and Tolstoy seized the opportunity. He was 82 years 
old, weak, and close to death. He packed some things, and accompa-
nied by his doctor, left his home and his wife. The carriage drove to a 
nearby station, where Tolstoy and his doctor boarded a train, a train 
that would gain fame rivaled only by the locomotive that races through 
the pages of AnnaKarenina. 


Tolstoy was bound for 
Shamordino, the home of his 
sister, Marya. Everyone in the 
third-class railroad carriage 
recognized the famous writer, 
and before long passengers 
from throughout the train 
crowded into Tolstoy's car-
riage, where he expounded on 
pacifism and politics. After a 
six-hour train ride, the Count 
and his doctor arrived . at 
Kozyolsk, where they spent 
the night, switching trains in 
the morning and embarking 
again for Shamordino. 


The 
arduous 
journey 
began to take its toll on the 
writer. As Tolstoy shivered in 
the cold train compartment, his doctor decided the author could not 
complete the trip. The next stop of the train bringing Tolstoy to the 
end of his life was the obscure town of Astapovo, where the station mas-
ter offered to house the ailing Tolstoy. 


On November 6, still too sick to travel, Tolstoy remained in bed at 
the station master's home. He was in pain. His days marooned in 
Astapovo allowed his family to catch up with him, and soon he was sur-
rounded by his children in the small room. Tolstoy continued to write 
in his diary, even in his final hours. His November 6 entry: "Life is a 
dream, death is an awakening." 


Sofya too came to Astapavo, but she was not allowed to see her bus-



**Tolstoy's Death and Ilya's Life**
**Author: John Swansburg**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
band, for fear that her presence would upset· him too much. She 
remained outside the house, with the crowds of peasants who had 
flocked to respect the great man. Only a handful of those present had 
probably ever read Tolstoy's novels, in which he denies the existence of 
great men. 

There is no contemporary analogy for what it must have been like 
for the station master to have Leo Tolstoy as a guest, albeit an unwilling 
one. No intellectual today commands the reverence that Tolstoy did in 
his Russia. Perhaps no intellectual ever has achieved such popular 
respect before signing with Hades, that unparalleled literary agent. 

On November 7 it became clear that Tolstoy's journey would end 
in unlikely Astapovo. At half past five in the morning, Sofya was finally 
admitted into the room where her husband was deep in a sleep from 
which he would never awaken. Walking to his bed, Sofya stood over her 
husband, and said, "I have never loved anyone but you." 

The body of Tolstoy was returned to Yasnaya Polyana by train. 
Thousands of peasants gathered to pay respeCts to the Count. His body 
was carried from the estate to a 
plot that Tolstoy h;ld long ago 
selected as his burial ground, 
on the edge of a ravine in the 
Zakaz forest, by four of his 
sons. 

Soon after Alexandra's visit, Ilya was hospitalized for what proved to 
be cancer, a cancer which quickly consumed his body. Alexandra visited 
Ilya in the hospital whenever she could, attending to her brother with 
the devotion of Natasha to the dying Prince Andrei, two of Leo's liter-
ary children. Ilya's sickness did nothing to change the ways of the itiner-
ant Nadya. His physical suffering was great, but he welcomed it. He 
would not take the morphine offered to him by the doctors: "I have 
sinned much in my life. I have been sent this suffering in atonement, so 
as to prepare myself. I must bear it, for the sake of God." 

Nadya was at his side that morning, trying to convince him to take 
the morphine. He could not be persuaded to ease the pain, and Alexan-
dra could not persuade Nadya to stay that evening. llya's wife told 
Alexandra that she was leaving. "Don't," Alexandra importuned, "llya 
will die tonight." But Nadya would not change her mind. 

That night Alexandra sat beside Ilya, holding his hand. When she 
returned from the hospital the next morning, Alexandra's friends, see-
ing her smiling face, devoid of grief, inquired as to the health of her 
brother. "He is dead," she 
responded. Alexandra wrote, "I 
could not explain why I was 
smiling, why in my soul I 
rejoiced. How could they have 
understood? For the first time 
in my life I had comprehended 
A
lexandra had a car but 
why suffering was necessary for 
did not know how to 
death, and how wonderful was 
drive it. Her brother 
the transition. 'Life is sleep-
was 70 miles away, severely ill. 
death is the awakening,' as my 
With fear and without a 
father had said." 

The body of Ilya Tolstoy, 
license, Alexandra lefr her 
after a small ceremony, was 
home at 3:30 in the morning. 
buried in December 1933, far 
llya Tolstoy, son of Leo, 
from 
the 
Zakaz 
forest, 
lived in a woodland cottage on 
although not far from the 
the banks of the Zoar River. 
banks of the Zoar river in 
//yo's cottage on the banks of the Zoor River. 
Southbury, 
Connecticut. 
constantly left her husband in order to travel. Alexandra arrived to find 
Unlike his father's grave, solitary, amidst the forest, llya's grave lies 
Ilya's house squalid. llya had lost weight. He complained of pain in his 
under a solitary maple tree, surrounded by the gravestones of strangers. 
side. He moved with difficulty. Alexandra called a doctor to the house 
His body was buried in a cemetery in New Haven, so many miles from 
to examine her brother. Outside the cottage, in private, the doctor told 
Yasnaya Polyana, where years before Ilya lay tucked safely in his bed, in 
Alexandra that Ilya most likely suffered from cancer. 

Ilya looked Strikingly like his father: the same gray eyes, only larger, 
a room not far from Alexandra's, as his mother, sittin$ downstairs at her 
the same wide brow, broad nose, the signature heavy beard. In the years 
desk, dutifully copied the manuscript her husband has just handed her: 
since his father's death, his thoughts, too, had grown to resemble his 
" ... but each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way." 
fither's. Ilya was a memoirist, the author of several published works, 
including &miniscmc~ of Tolstqy, a book about his memories of his 
fither, and a collection of stories entitled VISions. 
NOVEMBER 30, 1998 
john Swans burg, a junior in Saybrook Colkgt, is on tht staff of TN].


**School Crossing: Project Choice allows suburban students to attend New Haven schools, but the color line remains intact.**
**Author: Daniel Brook**
**Page number(s): 8**

.. 
THE New JouRNAL 


**School Crossing**
**Page number(s): 9**

William Costello III was always part of the legion of white, subur-
ban teens who drive up the price of Hilfiger stock and make it prof-
itable to produce rap albums. But starting last September, Will sacri-
ficed something a teenager actually cares about-sleep-to be part of 
urban culture. He wakes up at 5:30 every morning for an hour-long 
bus ride from Durham, Cf to New Haven's Wilbur Cross High 
School. The bus gets Will to school a half-hour before the morning rit-
ual of filing through the metal detectors begins. 

Will, a junior, is taking part in Project Choice, a program which 
provides state-financed busing for students adventurous enough to 
attend school outside their town and masochistic enough to wake up at 
5:30 a.m. It is one of several programs created by the state legislature in 
response to the Sheff v. O'Nal school desegregation case. According to 
the decision, Connecticut's racial demographics create de facto segrega-
tion in the public schools, which must be remedied by the legislature. 

Each district was asked to declare how many spaces it had available for 
out-of-district students. According to Peter Young, head of the Region-
al Educational Service Center, which oversees the finances and logistics 
of the busing, some suburban districts were honest, some were not. 

Still, the legislature is confident that it can force all districts to play the 
game, like it or not, once the Education Commissioner's report is 
released in January. 

Project Choice is one of two busing programs to come out of the 
State House in response to Sh4f The other bill opened Connecticut's 
tnagner schools to out-of-district students. Of the 500 suburban stu-
dents coming into New Haven, nearly all take part in this program. But 
with carefully sdeged student bodies and bundles of state aid, magnet 
schools have few of the problems associated with urban public educa-
tion. This year, New Haven's magnet Career High School moved into a 
brand new $30 million building near the Yale Medical School. Thirty 
nilllion dollars buys one hell of a natatorium. In addition, Career offers 
NOVEMBER JO, 1998 
seven Advanced Placement courses and boasts an internship program 
with Yale-New Haven Hospital. With these resources it is no wonder 
the school can woo more than a quarter of its students from out-of-dis-
trict. 

And woo is all urban districts can do. In 1974, the U.S. Supreme 
Court declared it unconstitutional to mandate desegregation busing 
across district lines. According to New Haven Representative Cam Sta-
l 
pies, head of the Education CornrrUttee in the State House, it was pop-
{ 
ular opinion, not the Supreme Court, that took forced busing off the 
~ 
table. "That method of desegregating schools has been discredited. No 
one in Hartford wanted forced busing," he said. Presumably none of 
"' 
the little people outside of the Belrway wanted it either. Without man-
dated busing, desegregation becomes reliant, in Staples' words, on 
" 
"marketing." 

But how could New Haven's regular comprehensive high schools 
ever compete with their well-funded counterparts in the suburbs? If this 
first year of Project Choice is any indication, not very well. This year, 
the program has opened up regular urban high schools in New Haven, 
Bridgeport, and Hartford to students from out of district. In Bridge-
port and Hartford not a single suburban student enrolled in the pro-
gram. In New Haven five did, one of whom was Will Costello. 

Will's decision to commute to Wilbur Cross each morning has 
made him something of a celebrity. He has been interviewed by The 
Boston Globe and The New York 1i1m. Yet, unlike the student integra-
tionists of the 1950s and '60s, Will did not intend his enrollment to 
make such a splash. He is no modern-day James Meredith. His decision 
to change high schools was more about education than the politics 
thereof, though like any left-leaning teen, he finds the pose of a civil 
rights crusader an alluring one. When I first asked Will about his deci-
sion to come to New Haven, he invoked the d-word-"diversity." His 
9 



**Title: The Omnimpotent**
**Author: Ian Blecher**
**Page number(s): 12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Hotel workers have voted to unionize, 
but management is stalling.


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Daniel Brook**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

mom, though she preferred the m-word 
("multiculturalism"), did the same. Still, both 
quickly moved past talk of integration to talk 
of education. Will actually concluded our 
interview by requesting a copy of my article. 
'~ything that'll help for college," he 
explained. They are not merely paying lip ser-
vice to racial harmony. It seems to be an 
important value to them, but it is clearly sec-
ondary to-and in many ways in the service 
of-Wtll's education. 

But aside from a killer college essay;' how 
could attending Wilbur Cross High School, 
where the incoming freshman class of more 
than 400 will dwindle to 175 by graduation 
day, be good for Will's education? While 
Cross' drop-out and success rates on 
statewide exams are much worse than 
Durham's, the New Haven public 
schools still have a lot to offer a 
stood why The New lQrk Times had come call-
ing. ''I'm shocked," she said. 

Why did Will's family take advantage of 
the program while so many others did not? 
For one, they've been more exposed to urban 
life than most suburban whites. The Costellos 
only moved to Durham from semi-urban 
Middletown because they got a good deal on 
a house. "My mom always says, 'Our house is 
in Durham, but our heart is in Middletown,"' 
said Will. Though they moved, they still go to 
a racially mixed Episcopal church in Middle-
town each week during ''America's most segre-
gated hour." Furthermore, Will's mother 
ofren works in low-income communities 
where she helps residents organize after-
school programs and other community 
projects. 

For 
these 
reasons, 
the 
Will gets to 
study with the most 
motivated students in 
Cross rather than the 
slackers of the 
student like Will. In New 
Haven, unlike Durham, 
Will is in all honors 
classes. 

Sure, 
this 
Costellos have a more cos-
mopolitan oudook than 
most of their friends in 
means that Cross 
has lower stan-
dards for gifred 
education, but in 
Will's case it means 
he gets to study with the 
Durham. 

When 
Will's 
mother 
told people that 
her 
son 
was 
going to New 
Haven 
many 
responded with silence. 
most motivated students at 
Cross rather than the slackers of 
the suburbs. For a student who, as 
suburbs. 
"They thought he'd get a 
second-rate education. No 
one said it, but I felt it. They 
were thinking 'Why would you 
allow your son to go there?'" Will's 
teenage friends were less tactful. "They 
were like 'You been shot yet? Been jumped?"' 
he said. 

his mother puts it, is "more sociable 
than studious," this can make a huge dif-
ference. And if it works, and Will excels at 
Cross, he'll have the chance to take classes at 
Southern or Yale, an option not available to 
students in the suburbs. 

Will's old school, despite conventional 
wisdom about suburban high schools, has its 
problems, too. A recent stabbing has brought 
state troopers to the parking lots at the begin-
ning and end of each school day. 

Considering these factors, there must be 
hundreds of kids in the suburbs who could be 
reaping the same benefits. In fact, Will's 
mother assumed they were. She did not think 
of her child's decision as unusual, and 
assumed there were more than 100 students 
just like Will being bused into ordinary New 
Haven high schools each day. She even 
requested a monthly parents' meeting. When 
I told her that Will was one of only five subur-
banites in Project Choice, she finally under-

While Will has remained friends with 
these kids, aided no doubt by his newfound 
"street cred," he referred to them as "double-
sided" ("two-faced" in grown-up speak). They 
listen to rap music and wear baggy jeans, but 
rarely go into New Haven, even to skate-
board. Yet like his mother, who ended our 
interview by urging me to "be kind to 
Durham-there are good people in this 
town," Will has little ire towards his suburban 
peers. A good liberal, he forgives them, for 
they know not what they do. Still, both he 
and his mother see their shortcomings. 

Like a historian, Will's mother provides 
one telling anecdote to explain her son's deci-
sion to leave his school. Last February Wt.ll 
was in Spain, on the kind of trip only a subur-


--- Page 11 ---

ban high school could afford to organize. Will 
and his peers were cooped up in a Madrid 
hotel room when die other kids started com-
plaining that there-was no 1V and that the 
Spanish people they had met were rude. As 
his mother put it, Will had a revelation. Sure 
the students from Durham were "great kids," 
but it struck him that he needed a broader 
experience-an experience he felt he could 
get in New Haven. 

In many ways, it's an experience he is get-
ting, but in other ways it is not. Will is excited 
that the students at Cross "have experienced 
more, they're not so sheltered, and they know 
more of what's going on in the world." But 
they haven't been to Spain and they watch an 
awful lot of television. According to the assis-
tant principal, most of Cross' dropouts just sit 
at home and watch 1V all day. And while the 
diversity in New Haven dwarfs that of 
Durham, where Will said only four of the 400 
kids in his school were non-white, there is lit-
tle meaningful interaction between students 
of different races. 

When I was trying to locate a former Pro-
ject Choice student named Tanisha, I went to 
the cafeteria during her lunch period and 
asked the teacher· on duty for help. He and I 
walked around the black side of the lunch-
room asking if anyone knew her whereabouts. 
No one did. Then the teacher stopped, 
looked out across the rest of the lunch room 
at the all-Latino tables and remarked, "That's 
not a Hispanic name, so I guess she isn't here." 

When I moved on to look for Will, whom a 
peer had described as tall and red-headed with 
baggy pants, I found him at a table in the 
library surrounded by the few white kids in 
his grade. 

Still, he insisted he had made non-white 
friends. His mother bragged that all the girls, 
regardless of race, were introducing them-
selves to him since., in her modest, motherly 
opinion, "he's a pretty good-looking guy." 
Certai.nly he's had interactions with minority 
Students that would have been impossible in 
Durham, but his good friends are white 
because, as he says, "I have the most in com-
mon with them." 

While most suburbanites fear urban 
schools, some may put them on a pedestal 
they don't dese.rVe. To a suburban kid alienat-
ed by his peers' closed-mindedness, the shon-
cornings of urban kids can be dismissed as a 
lack of opponunity-an excuse spoiled sub-
NOVEMBER JO, 1998 
urbanites don't have. Yet, if the students from 
Cross went to Madrid, they'd probably want 
to watch television there, too--not that we'll 
ever find out. New Haven's kids will never go 
to Madrid, as long as school funding remains 
based on local property taxes. And it will, 
regardless of Sheff 

The weak goal of the Sheff v. O'Neil deci-
sion was to address racial segregation but not 
financial inequalities. Sure, separate but equal 
is inherently unequal. But isn't integrated and 
unequal unequal as well? Busing in one white 
kid from the suburbs to Cross is only integra-
tion in the Governor Wallace sense. And there 
aren't any minority students being bused into 

Still, Will's experience, while statistically 
negligible, is valuable. His experience has dis-
pelled many of his Durham friends' myths 
about urban education-he hasn't been 
jumped, or shot. Will's new city friends have 
met someone from the great wide world out-
side New Haven. But there are limits. One 
white suburbanite coming into a school with 
more than 1,000 students is not going to 
affect the school's racial isolation. For all the 
insensitivity of the forced busing bureaucrats 
of the late '60s and '70s, they understood that 
social change takes something few Americans 
like: oven social engineering. Surely this is 
what the creators of Project Choice sought to 
avoid, and they succeeded, by crafting a pro-
gram in line with American values. The pro-
gram is voluntary-based on schools luring 
students-and while the state-provided trans-
portation is expensive, there is no attempt to 
take suburban tax dollars and give them to the 
urban schools that need them. 

The program speaks the language of 
American liberal capitalism: "choice" and 
"marketing" with the student as happy con-
sumer-voter. Perhaps if Popeye's Chicken on 
Elm Street "marketed" itself better, white 
Yalies would "choose" to go there. But they 
don't, though the quality of their product is 
no worse than the dining halls' or say, Broad-
way Pizza's. Alas, Project Choice is as Ameri-
can as apple pie, as American as craving 1V It 
shows us who we really are. And Project 
Choice shows us that, despite the Costellos 
and others like them, integration is not a 
choice America is willing to make. 

DanieL Brook, a junior in Davenport CoLI~ge, 
is on the staff of TN].


LAUNDROMAT
One stop laundry center 
BIG WA.SHmS Ill FAST DRYERs 
3 HR. WASH, DRY Ill FOLD 
CLEANING • SHIRT SERVICE 
SPOTLESSLY CLEAN • PARKING 
2 Locations -
Open 7 days 
180 PARK ST. 
(cornu of G<u>r/le) 
776-6460 
8am-10pm daily 
165 WILLOW ST. 
(corner ol F 011ter) 
498-ll687 
6a.m-10pm daily


WINE & UQUOR 
FINEST SELECTION OF IMPORTED & DOMESTIC 
WINE OVER 80 BRANDS OF IMPORTED BEER 
FREE DIUVERY 
212 COUfGE STREET. NEW HAVEN, CT 06510. 
(203) 777-7597 
MONDAY·SATUROAY: 9.00 TO 8.00 



**Title: Boiling Frogs**
**Author: Ian Black**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Then tht disciples came and said f() him, "Why do you speak in para~ 
bles?" And ht answtrtd them ... 'to him who has will mort be given, and ht 
wilL havt abundanct; but from him who has not, even what he has wilL be 
taken away. " 
Matthew 13:10~12 
'' T 
he hotel is getting busier and busier, like a pot of boil~ 
ing water. And all the employees are frogs. And the 
water gets hotter and hotter, but really really slowly, 
so no one notices it, until one day the frogs are boil~ 
ing, and the hotel is running really well." 
John Pluecker (ES '0 1) is relating the gospel according to Linda 
Lbby, General Manager of the Omni Hotel, where he delivers room 
service. "I don't really know what to make of it," he said. "I guess she 
wanted it to mean everyone works harder and harder? Maybe?" 
One thing's for sure: the Omni is boiling.


The controversies surrounding the Omni 
began in 1995, when developer David Cordish decided to resuscitate 
the abandoned Park Plaza H otel. In exchange for providing several 
hundred jobs and a sure boon to the moribund Chapel Square Mall, 
New Haven diverted $9.9 million to the project. At Mayor John 
DeStefano's coaxing, Cordish agreed that he would eventually sign a 
neutrality agreement stipulating that the new hotel's management 
would not discuss the formation of a union with its employees. With~ 
out this sort of treaty, management has every right to intimidate would~ 
be unionists in the weeks before their election. After a few closed semi~ 
nars on pay cuts, union corruption, and job loss, most workers decide 
to vote "no." More importantly, under a neutrality agreement, a card 
count over several months, rather than a one-time election, decides the 
fa.te of the union. Employees can join the revolution as slowly as they 
please. 
Then came the Omni. The international hotel syndicate bought a 
controlling stake in the new development and demanded that the bus 
stops on the Greeri be relocated on behalf of its guests' right not to see 
poor people, and put off the neutrality agreement on behalf of its right 
to keep them poor. The only good will in New Haven that the compa~ 
ny did keep was the city's generous $9.9 million donation, which it 
used to build an ostensibly anti-union luxury hotel. Even worse, when 
it finally opened, after years of delay, the Omni drew banquets and 
other events away from union shops like Yale. 
Locals 34 and 35 became irate, according to Connor Martin (TC 
'99), a banquet waitress and member ofLocal217's Omni Organizing 
Committee. In 1996, they'd won a bitter fight against subcontracting 
certain dining hall jobs to non-union employees of an outside firm. 
Suddenly Yale was using the Omni as a kind of luxury subcontractor. 
Money that had once gone to unionized workers was going (in lesser 
proportion, of course) to non-union ones. 
As soon as the hotel opened for business, protests Bared up. A coali~ 
tion formed out of clergy, Yale students, and union members, who felt 
that 9.9 million of their tax dollars entitled the city to viable jobs, not 
just simple surplus value extraction. Even I was awakened from my 
ironic slumber long enough to chant, "Linda Libby: No More Fibby!" 
in front of the hotel last winter. 


On October 29, Omni workers voted, by card 
count, overwhelmingly for a union. Soon 
afterwards, management filed a suit before the 
National Labor Relations Board (NLRB). 
They charged Local 217 of the Hotel and 
Restaurant Employees with coercing workers 
to sign union cards. And Libby recently inex~ 
plicably resigned, though some workers say she 
was forced out. 
"If I slack off a little 
Although the New Haven Advocate 
reported that Libby publically avowed that 
the hotel was negotiating a neutrality agr~ 
ment with Local 217, no such agreement 
ever came. In fa.ct, the hotel brought in 
attorney Jay Krupin, a nationally renowned 
union-buster, to try and settle things down. 
The Omni was looking for a fight, and l 
Linda Libby was still spinning fibbies. 
oi 
bit at work, and I'm 
pro-union, that could 
mean my job."


But even Krupin's cunning couldn't step i. 
to the solidarity of a depressed and desperate community intent on i 
shoring up what few good jobs were still possible. Demonstrators f 
proved vigilant enough to prevent the Governor of Puerto Rico, the ~ 
Honorable Pedro Rosello, from staying at the hotel, and some Omni i 
events were moved to the Law School. A boycott threatened by the a 
coalition finally pushed Yale to authorize its (anti-) labor lawyer, Brian 
Tunney, to help the two sides negotiate a neutrality agreement, which 
was signed on Aprill5 of this year. 
All of this culminated in October 29's card count: of 154 eligible 
employees, 112 agreed to unionize. I asked Martin why the union won 
so easily. "Job security," she said. "There's a company attempt to create 
grievance procedures [for wrongful firings], but it doesn't work at all. A 
grievance procedure is stipulated in a contract, and right now, not hav-
ing a contract, any policy that the hotel has for its employees can be 
changed at the drop of a hac. We have no guarantees.,Until it's guaran~ 
teed in a contract, we have no protection." 
Although they would not go on record, other hotel workers agreed. 
One said he had signed a union card even though the Omni considers 
him management, because he was worried about losing his job. Even 
workers who didn't sign union cards cited fear of management reprisal 
as 
their 
motivation. 
Pluecker 
himself 
expressed some concerns about unionism: 
"When I was signing my union card, I was 
like, 'Do I really want to do this? Is it going to 
come back to me?' If I slack off a little bit at 
work, and I'm pro-union, that could mean 
my job." 


For Martin, however, respect for workers 
is almost as important as secure jobs. "They 
have these Omni Service Champion Awards 
where they give out special awards each 
month. Anyway, one month, there was a 
Mardi Gras theme, and the managers all were 
having a private party beforehand. Then they 
carne out and Linda Libby was wearing a 
crown, and everyone else was w~ing these 
very elaborate masks. Now, the normal work-
ers 
weren,t 
given 
masks-only 
the 
managers. And the 
managers 
walked 
around through the 
ballroom where every-
one else was sitting, 
and threw little beads 
at the workers, and 
then went up and 
gave their presentation." 
"In some sense, we 
already have a union. 
W e stand up for each 
other on the job."


On top of that, she said, "The uniform is 
horrible. It's a polyester tuXedo." Some of the 
hotel's employees aren't even allowed on the 
elevators because "they smell bad," according 
to Martin. 
Pluecker, too, has suffered his share of 
indignities. "There's this one guy who called 
me and I went into his room one night, and 
there was someone in his bed. A very thin, 
scraggly looking white man, and a very over-
weight African-American lady, a prostitute, 
lying in bed, drinking a beer and smoking a 
cigarette. It was kind of traumatic. He stays in 
the hotel all the time." 
Paradoxically, the more the Omni makes a 
show of respecting its workers, the more it 
highlights how little it actually does. "They 
have this slogan," Pluecker said. "'The Power 
of One.' You don't know about the Power of 
One? It says that whenever there is any prob-
lem, you are fully empowered to make a deci-
sion." Of course, it also implies that what's 
really important are individual performances 
as opposed to worker solidarity. The Omni 
calls all of its employees "associates." It pro-
motes monthly "Service Champions." It even 
passed out an "associate opinion survey," on 
which the last question was "Does this survey 
make you feel like your opinion matters?" I 
asked Pluecker whether his does. "Sort of." 
And the "Power of One?" "It's just a slogan," 
he said. 
Martin reports a more serious incident. 
"One member of management called a group 
of black and Latino workers who were eating 
while on a break a 'bunch of little monkeys,' 
and asked the manager to get rid of them. 
T hose things are brought to the boss manager 
and dealt with usually, although the guy is still 
there. The grievance procedure is supposed to 
have some sort of committee, but it doesn't 
exist as far as I know." Pluecker also alleged 
incidents of racism against Latinos. 
As a result of this type of condescension, 
"the 
Human 
Resources 
Depart-
ment was taken aback 
by how well we orga-
nized 
this 
hotel, 
because 
they 
don't 
think that their work-
ers are capable of orga-
nizing," said Martin. 
In fact, worker solidar-
ity at the Omni may act as a counter-hegemo-
ny against the Omni's culture of corporate 
kitsch. Martin said, "In some sense, we 
already have a union. We stand up for each 
other on the job, and that's what a union is all 
about.'' Since the card count, "there's been an 
amazing change in the way people I work 
with think about themselves as workers, the 
way they think about themselves and the 
power they have in society. It's the s~nse 
among workers that 'I have dignity, and I 
deserve respect,"' said Martin. 


"What the union is all about" became 
perfectly clear on October 30, the day after 
the card count. Three union members, 
including Martin, took over a worker/man-
agement meeting led by Libby and the hotel's 
Director of Human Resources, Paul Pinto. 
They presented Libby with a blown-up peti-
tion, tied with a silk ribbon, and signed by 
109 union supponers, including Jesse Jack-
son. Unionists planted in the crowd applaud-
ed, setting off cheers from the rest of the audi-
ence. When Libby finally spoke, Martin said, 
she was alrriost drowned out. "Yes, [the cards] 
do demonstrate a majority, but we're not rec-
ognizing them, because we think the union 
intimidated you," said Libby. 
THE NEw JouRNAL 


**Title: The Omni and Local 217**
**Author: Ian Black, Mica Winter**
**Page number(s): 15**

The Omni has refiled a previously with-
drawn case before the NLRB on behalf of its 
employees, alleging tjlat union organizers, like 
Martin, intimidated· other workers. Victory 
would annul the card count. Dan Abraham 
(SM '98), head of the Organizing Committee 
on which Martin serves, denies the charges 
emphatically. "We don't think we harassed or 
intimidated anyone," he said. Martin agrees. 
"I didn't threaten to beat anyone up," she said. 
The source of those charges is slimy, 
according to Pluecker. "When management 
was trying to find out if any workers had been 
harassed by the union, Paul Pinto and the 
main Omni corporate lawyer got a room at 
the hotel, got pizza delivered, got all these 
beverages and stuff, and then they called indi-
viduals from the restaurant and basically said, 
would you like some pizza, would you like a 
drink, and did the union harass you in any 
way?" Several workers, including Martin, con-
firmed that tete-a-tetes like this one-illegal 
by the terms of the neutrality agreement-have 
taken place, though no one testified to first 
harxi experience. 
Nevertheless, Local 217 has not filed a 
complaint before ~e NLRB. "It's in the inter-
est of the workers to make this as polite and 
non-confrontational as possible. Non-con-
frontational is the word of the day," said Mar-
tin. In other words, if the union is strong 
enough, legal recourse is unnecessary. Abra-
ham agrees. "If the union is strong, which I 
think ours is, they have to negotiate with us. 
But if they think were weak, then they'll 
fight." 
Right now, it's management that looks 
weak. Libby is gone, and the Omni is fighting 
Local 217 in court. If its case is dismissed, the 
union may begin contract negotiations three 
months from October 29, according to Abra-
ham. That's when the real rumble will proba-
bly begin. "The fight to get our first contract 
will be much harder than it will have been to 
gee union recognition," said Martin. 
One thing's for sure, though: Omni work-
ers are a long way from boiled frogs. 
1111 
]mica Winter ((C '99) contributed to this 
story. 
Ian Bkchn; a junior in Davenport Co/kg~. is 
on th~ staff of TNJ. 
NOVEMBER 30, 1998


HONO KONO OROCERY 
Chinese 
Japanese 
Malaysian 
Korean 
Indian 
'Fresft 6aked aoods, fresft ftslt, fruits &' veaeta6Ces aru£ mucft more! 
'.Mon-tTiturs 
10:30-10)'m 
Business Hours: 
'Friday 
10:3o-11ym 
Saturd'ay 
10:00-lOym


CHI"fl 
CHINESE FOOD FOR TAKE-OUT 
A..~e._..f tf1t( 
In the rear of Hong Kong Grocery 
~ k~ ( 
LUNCH SPECIALI3 entrees (w/o soup)- $3.99 +tax 
M-F 11 am-3pm 
DINNER SPECIALI4 entrees (w/ soup & rice)- $4.50 incl. tax 
M-F 4pm-9pm, Sat-Sun 11am-9pm 
o 7 Whitney -Avenue; Open 7 Oays 
Tel: (203) 7 7 7·888o 
15 



**Title: Vantage**
**Author: Lincoln Else**
**Page number(s): 17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
VANTAGE 
BY LINCOLN ELSE


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 16**

They are all in the same city, on the same street, 
flowing past each other, bouncing off each other, 
yet isolated in their own world. They each have 
their own concerns, worries, and reasons to hurry; 
they are aware of their surroundings, yet so often 
unaware of the camera that sees them. 
There is an unwritten language, an implicit 
choreography, spoken and followed on the street: 
when you walk, where you stand, where you look, 
when you wait, who you touch, and what you do. 
These interactions are taken for granted, yet they 
determine our movements and c'eate a strange world 
when frozen in time. 
These photographs were all taken on Fifth Avenue 
in Manhattan over the course of the last two months. 
They represent a portion of a year-long project 
centered on the people of Manhattan's streets and the 
act of taking these pictures. 



**Title: Guns in New Haven**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Shaw's Supermarket closed at 10 p.m. lase Tuesday. The cus-
tomers packed up and headed out while a security car circled the 
perimeter of the parking .lot. On adjacent Elm Street, a boy 
pulled his jacket over his head, running for cover from the rain. 
Sirens converged on St. Raphael's Hospital two blocks away and a few 
cars sped down Elm coward the suburbs. A little after ten, the rain 
dulled the sound of a gunshot. No one raised an alarm, no police cruis-
ers followed. 


Lase year, the New Haven Police Department recorded 779 gun-
shots, and firearms were used in 19 of the city's 22 homicides. Although 
the department's firearms unit has recovered 165 handguns since Janu-
ary, crime rates have actually dropped in 1998. This year New Haven 
has seen only ten homicides, five committed with 
firearms. The numbers sound promising and Yale 
continues co recover from the 1991 Hillhouse 
Avenue shooting death of junior Christian Prince. 
But after two incidents on Chapel Street this 
fall, guns have resurfaced as a threat co students and 
to the university's image. On October 7 a man fired 
a gun on a New Haven bus near the intersection of 
Chapel and High Streets. Two weeks later, on 
October 23, two groups of teenagers exchanged 
·shots at the corner of York and Chapel. Coming on 
the heels of a pair of shootings at the Medical 
School, the Chapel Street events again raised the 
specter of gun violence in Yale's backyard. 


Although the visibility of guns on campus may 
seem unique to this fall, they have never been far 
away. New Haven police have begun to work with 
state and federal agencies to deter straw buying and 
co block the flow of guns into the city. Connecti-
cut's project "Drugfue" has allowed local police 
depanments to pool their forensic evidence: "Every gun leaves its own 
individual mark. There are no two alike-it's like 
1fingerprints," says 
Sullivan. "Now all of this gets put in the computer. It's a great tool." 


And in conjunction with the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and 
Firearms (ATF), New Haven police have begun a study that will trace 
the origin of every gun implicated in a crime. ATF researchers will fol-
low the path of a gun from manufacturer to wholesaler to retailer and 
finally to the street. which extends for two blocks between Elm and Chapel. The shot heard 
last Tuesday night came from this area. A second shot followed half an 
hour later. Hours after the October 23 shooting on Chapel Street, the 
Yale Daily News rushed out a special supplement diagramming the 
events. Yet a few blocks away, random gunfire elicits no response. 
Despite the proximity of the Chapel Street shootings to campus, no 
Yale student has been shot, or shot at, in years. But before New Haven's 
plague of gun viole"nce fades into the background again, it's wonh ask-
ing where the guns come from. 


'' H
ere's a list of guns purchased by one 
person-49 guns," says Captain 
Brian Sullivan, Head of Detectives 
for the New Haven Police Department. "This guy 
bought a lot of guns at various sports places. Some 
of those guns ended up in shootings and murders. 
He was one of the lase straw purchasers in New 
Haven." "Straw buyers" take advantage of differing 
state and local laws by legally purchasing dozens of 
guns in one area and reselling them on the black 
market. New Haven police now run detailed back-
ground checks on anyone who purchases multiple 
guns, but straw buyers persist in states with looser 
gun regulations. 


Although the 
visibility of guns 
on campus may 
seem unique to 
this fall, they 
have never been 
far away. 


The walk to Shaw's takes many students past Kensington Street, 
Kensington Street, just four blocks behind Pierson and Daven-
pon Colleges, has long been a center for the city's inseparable drug and 
gun trades. Ho~ 
with boarded-up windows line both sides of the 
street; groups of young men stand in doorways and warily eye passing 
cars. As close as it is co campus, Kensington has not shared in the urban 
renaissance that won New Haven this year's All-American City award. 



**Life's too short to drink bad coffee**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Life's too short to 
drink bad coffee" 
• 
Whether it'a hot or cold , _ 
• .,.. got 
what you're c:ra..tng. 
)', ~ 
u .... Entertainment ·~ 


**Title: Guns for Sale on the New Haven Green**
**Author: John and Mark (pseudonyms); Ainu Rutkow, Editor-in-Chief; Ben Smith, Staff Writer**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
what these kids were doing so close to campus.

But the line between town and gown isn't
as distinct as some would like to imagine.
Mark makes his living begging and hustling
around campus. "Do I get guns for Yale kids?
No, just drugs, no weapons," he says. But he
has no objections to the idea, and quickly
turns to business. "Nothing under $50 will
get you a gun. It would take 24 hours for it to
go down."

Mark's words sound like they're straight
out of a movie. Is it really as simple as he says?
"It's easy to get a gun," says Officer Jones. "It's
knowing the right people and putting the
word out." But a late night cup of coffee buys
an acquaintance with Mark. "If you want a
nine millimeter automatic, it'll cost you about
$150, $200, with bullets." By the next afternoon Mark has located someone who is willing to meet us that night on the New Haven
Green. "He's an honest businessman," says
Mark. "He just wants his money and the
transaction's made."

At 9 p.m. intermittent lamps light paths
across the Green. It would be difficult to spot
a man with a backpack standing in the shadow of a tree and impossible to hear the gun-
shots on Kensington Street. At this hour most
Yalies don't go anywhere near the Green's ominous dark stretches. Bearing John's warning in
mind, we break our date with the dealer. The
gun is waiting for the next person ready to put
up the cash.

Ia]
John and Mark are pseudonyms.
Ainu Rutkow, a senior in Morse College, is
editor-in-chief of TN]. Ben Smith, a senior in
Morse College, is on the staff of TN].
NOVEMBER 30, 1998


**Title: CULTURAL CAPITAL**
**Author: ERIC ROTHFEDER**
**Page number(s): 26**

New Haven's interest in the arts may be solely financial.


**Title: New Haven's Cultural Plan: Can the Arts Revitalize the City?**
**Page number(s): 27**

The New Jersey Performing Arts Center (NJPAC) opened in
downtown Newark in 1997. After the '67 riots and the white flight that
ensued, Newark became a crime-ridden and economically depressed
city. However, in its first year alone NJPAC sold 82 percent of its seats
to over half a million patrons. Its success sparked a surge of realtors
who were convinced of Newark's potential to buy downtown property.
These recent successes in Newark demonstrate that the arts can
improve the image and economy of a city. The Regional Cultural Plan
of Greater New Haven seeks to emulate the NJPAC with one difference--arts are already flourishing in New Haven. The greater New
Haven area boasts six symphony orchestras, two regional theaters, three
touring houses, five museums, and 5,000 individual artists, in addition
to Yale's four professional art schools. According to the Cultural Plan,
by supporting the already existing arts and marketing New Haven as an
arts community, the city will become the creative capital of Connecticut by the end of the decade.

The Cultural Plan arose from feelings within the arts community
that New Haven, and especially its businesses, didn't see the arts as central to the city. As in Newark, such cultural growth could spark economic growth. In 1996 the Arts Council of Greater New Haven, an
umbrella group for New Haven's arts community, hired the Woolf
Organization to perform a comprehensive study of New Haven's cultural assets. In June 1997 they finalized the report and drew up eight
strategies to encourage creative growth in New Haven. The report proposed improving 'the city's facilities, marketing New Haven as an arts
community, and stabilizing the finances of arts organizations. They
sought to further develop cultural services and resources, improve education and increase community solidarity through creative expression.

Now things are starting to happen. The state of Connecticut commissioned a $450,000 independent study of the city's arts facilities.
Also, the Coalition received an award of $300,000 through a matching
grant from The Community Foundation. In the first week of November, the Arts Coalition named Nan Birdwhistell (SOM '86) the Plan's
director.

The Cultural Plan is an expensive proposition, costing a projected
$1.6 million annually, plus capital investments. However, the plan is
unclear as to how much this investment will improve the city economically and socially. Money given to the arts might only improve the arts.
However, the plan's ultimate goal is an urban revitalization comparable
to Newark or Cleveland's Playhouse Square. Yet the plan never fully
explores the connection between the arts and the city's economy. While
claiming that "the impact of its cultural expenditures, already over $160
million annually in the nonprofit sector alone, will grow substantially,"
it never explicitly outlines what benefits the city could reap from
becoming the "creative capital" of Connecticut.

Originally, one of the major motives for commissioning the plan
was to find an effective way to market New Haven as an artistic community. The Arts Council has decided to suspend this initiative until
next year to address a more pressing financial issue. Thirty-two percent
of arts organizations are running deficits in the current fiscal year. Historically, the picture is even worse. In 1995 the city's arts organizations
ran a deficit totalling $2.5 million. Moreover, there is comparatively less
financial support for the arts in New Haven than in other cities. Sixty-
three percent of New Haven art institutions' budgets come from earned
income, compared to 39 percent in Charlotte and 57 percent in Houston (two other cities studied by the Woolf Organization). This can be
attributed to a relatively low rate of giving from both the private and
public sectors. The city contributes only six percent, and the state only
one percent, to the budget of New Haven art organizations. Unfortunately, local corporations have not picked up the slack.

These statistics, however, can be misleading. The numbers exclude
ad hoc giving from the city and state, like the funds for renovation of
the Shubert Theater and the revitalization of Audubon Court. Nevertheless, this trend of ad hoc giving puts the arts in a precarious situation. There is little or no steady source of funding. "This is one of the
greatest challenges to enacting the plan," says Frances Clark, Executive
Director of the Arts Council. She calls for additional funding for an arts
lottery like that used in Massachusetts, or a segment of the sales tax to
be set aside for the arts.

In order for the cultural plan to work, it needs the full support of
the community. Perhaps this is the greatest contradiction in the plan-
it relies on the financial aid of the city, the state, and local businesses,
but one of its primary goals is to foster private community support.
Essentially the Arts Council has to rely on an assumed level of support
to jumpstart its efforts. If support fails to snowball, however, the plan
may never be fully enacted.

Other challenges abound. The plan calls for arts organizations to
see themselves as a community, and not as competitors. "The biggest
challenge for enacting the Plan is getting people to make sacrifices for
the whole," says Clark. While the plan is only in its infancy, some
potential allies are unsure of their place in it. "I'm not clear of what my
role in the plan is ... I'm anxious to see how they include this office,"
says Lauren D'Alessandro, Director of the Bureau of Cultural Affairs.
"The biggest obstacle is enacting the actual planning," says Mike
Morand (SY '87), vice president of the Office of New Haven Affairs.
The project is both enormous and costly, making the Arts Council self-
conscious about doing it correctly; if it doesn't act quickly, the community could easily grow wary of its efforts.

While few would ever deny the need for the arts, it is debatable
how many see them as the key to New Haven's future. Since nothing
has been enacted yet, there has been little opposition to the plan. This
makes it difficult to determine whether the plan will garner the support
it needs to turn greater New Haven into a creative and cultural center
for Connecticut, let alone whether it will lead to economic and social
revitalization.

Unlike other initiatives to improve the city, such as the renovation
of the Chapel Square Mall, the Cultural Plan relies not on a few individuals but on the entire community. Supporters' and skeptics agree
that a successful Cultural Plan would mark a new era in the history of a
troubled city.

[B]
Eric Rothfeder, a freshman in Saybrook College, is on the staff of TN].
27



**A QUIC~ FIX**
**Author: The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Police are using first aid tactics 
to shut down prostitution~ 
but the wounds might 
run too deep.


**Untitled**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

It's four o'clock in the afternoon and Sharon is already at Dana's house. 
She's standing on the steps asking for her. Dana comes out wearing a coat, 
stomping her boots, blinking her eyes Like she just woke up. "Sharon, it's 
damn cold out here," she says. "Why you dragging me out of bed?" But 
Dana's not too cold or tired to know that Sharon wants some drugr. Dana 
holds out her hand. Sharon gives her some money. Dana keeps her hand 
out. Sharon gives her more. If Sharon wants Dana to go out and get her 
some, Sharon had best be prepared to give some back. What's fair is fair. 
For the New Haven Police Department, recent crackdowns on vice 
are all about fairness. Despite comforting statistics citing the decline in 
violent crime nationwide, crimes once viewed by police as too mun-
dane for serious attention now plague the city. In the mid-'80s, when 
New Haven's drug wars hit their peak, police had no choice but to con-
centrate on the wave of murders, burglaries, and assaults that accompa-
nied the drug trade. Now at the end of the '90s, nights of violence and 
fear have subsided, even if the drug trade has not. Until just a few 
months ago, however, the police continued to target felony offenders, 
despite the surge in misdemeanors. "We weren't listening to what the 
community wanted," says Sergeant Everett Nichols of the Fair Haven 
district. "What we thought were mundane crimes were what the com-
munity wanted out_of their lives. Let's face it, a murder doesn't happen 
every day, but the drunk will be on your steps every day." Arresting 
everyone from drunks to kids playing their music too loudly, the police 
have been trying to make the streets of New Haven quieter and more 
livable for law-abiding citizens. In the past two months, the police 
department has completed four busts, arresting more than 50 women 
and men in its biggest attempt yet to erase the misdemeanor most 
closely related to the drug trade and violence: prostitution. 
'1 don't Like to call it prostitution on my part," Dana says. Dana doem't 
tvm start off a typical day knowing if she'll have to turn tricks. She starts off 
the day knowing she's going to get high, but that won't happen until Sharon 
comes around and sends her out to buy some stuff When Dana jim wakes 
up she ftels normal normal enough to Lie in bed and watch TV And she's 
Mrmal enough to chase her grandkids around the house or cook up a meal 
or talk for a few hours with that reporter who comes over from the universi-
~ But by the time Sharon comes around, Dana already wants her drugr 
and she's ready to risk arrest to get Sharon some, plus a bwck of her own. 
When Dana gets a bwck, the size of an Advil she breaks it in half One 
half keeps her high for 30 minutes, so she can get a full hour from one bwck. 
At the end of the hour Dana starts getting headaches. She's got to smoke 
some crack cocaine. So Dana starts woking around for money: two dollars 
left over from what her husband gave her for giving it up last night, three 
dolltzrs from the cans and bottles she's been collecting. .. not enough to buy a 
TUJrmal $10 bag. ?:hat's when Dana puts on her jeans and heads out to the 
·Ho-StrolL " 
The prostitution hot spot for downtown New Haven, or the Ho-
Stroll as it's known on the streets, runs along Chapel Street and Edge-
wood Avenue between Howe Street and Sherman Avenue, a block up 
from Pierson College. A hot spot can start with just one or two girls out 
on the corner. Johns drive by and start recognizing that spot as a place 
to go to "take care of business." Women start recognizing that spot as a 
good place to make money, and traffic grows until it becomes the place 
in the district to make a transaction. With prostitution comes drug 
dealing and with drug dealing come gangs. Gang activity brings loud 
music, yelling, and even gunshots until three in the morning. "When 
you get nine, ten girls on the street, they're noisy, their dates are noisy, 
they're leaving their narcotics around-then it's a quality of life issue," 
says Nichols. Eliminating prostitution is not an easy task. Most busts 
break up a hot spot only to push prostitutes and johns to new parts of 
the district and city, new intersections that will become new hot spots. 
"We're like a M.AS.H. unit," says Nichols. "We're just a quick fix." 
Getting her fix is easier for Dana now that she's been around a whik, 
now that she's known. On the streets they call her the Bag Lady or Ma Duke 
out of respect. Dana can walk the Ho-Stroll in jeans; she tkJem't even need 
to comb her hair. On most days, she walks tkJwn Howe dragging her 
garbage bagr, picking up cans and bottles on the way. A new car skws down 
in front of her. A couple of Yale students walk past Dana on their way to 
Pizza House, but they're not who she's wokingfor. She walks straight to the 
car. A man leans out and asks her, "}Ou working?" He woks Like he's coming 
from an office. "Uh-huh, "she answers and keeps on walking. The car circks 
around the bwck and swws tkJwn again in front of Dana. She gets in. He 
drives dtnmz the street and pulls over. "If he wants to smile at you, it's going 1 
to cost him," says Dana. "If he wants to sit next to you, it's going to cost him. i 
If he wants to put his arm around you, that'll cost him even more. "Dana 
never sets a price. She just sticks out her hand and waits. 
"On the first, second, and third of the month it's real weird peopk from 
the veteran's hospitals, "says Dana. "They come in taxi cabs with their dis-
abilities checks. They pay you $200 to sit and talk with them and watch 
them ... "She moves her hand up and tkJwn to indicate masturbation. Dana 
only sees the veterans once a month. Usually it's married white men from 
the suburbs, businessmen, and cops. She likes the white men. "They always 
strung out and paranoid and give up their money real easy, " she says. "I 
always tell them I need the money for my family. "Dana Likes it best when 
men give her money before she agrees to tkJ anything. The man drives by her 
house and Dana runs inside and pretends to give the money to her family. 
When she gets in the car again, he'll give her more money to go to his house. 
'1 can get $300 for smoking his crack and ktting him eat pussy," Dana 
laughs. She stops there, though. If he wants her to give it up, Dana just 
sticks out her hand for money and, as soon as she gets it, opens the tkJor and 
runs out. In the 15 years she's been smoking crack cocaine, Dana claims she 
has only given it up to "the bitch, "her husband, and he 'pays for it, too. 
These past two months the police department's work on sting oper-
ations has paid off in countless arrests. In each operation, an undercov-
er officer in an unmarked car drives to a hot spot and strikes up a con-
versation with a girl on the street. He records the entire conversation, 


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author:  [No author listed]**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
raised the child. "That child kills me, she's so 
spoiled," sighs Dana. "But I let her do what she 
wants to do, otherwise it's dangerous for me. She 
, 
.. 
got a temper. 
· 
Debbie, who is 16, has just come back from 
being out on the street for three days. She never 
says where she is, but is doing okay, so Dana tries 
not to worry too much. Dana has given Debbie 
a lot of freedom to make her own decisions, and 
for the most part she feels that Debbie has made 
some good choices-she only messes around with 
men she knows and she likes marijuana better 
than crack. But Debbie steals. That's why Dana 
hides everything from her daughter: bags, ciga-
rettes, money. '1 can't trust no one in this fami-
ly, "says Dana. Even now, with Debbie dropped 
out of Hillhouse High School and Dana raising 
Debbie's boy, she feels shut out. "My family 
always has something negative to say, " says 
Dana. "There's no love. I hate living here." 

Most prostitutes learn that the criminal 
justice system can do nothing to them. 
"When you're in it for a while and you're 
strung out and you've been through the sys-
tem, it's like, 'Do what you've got to do,'" says 
Nichols. "When they're young you can scare 
them, tell them yo·u can put them in jail for a 
long time. The hard core ones stand on the 
comer with their hips out and smile. Some-
times I think they want to be taken in. They 
need the break." 

As she walks down Howe, aU Dana can 
think about is escape. '1 hold everything on the 
inside. There's so much stress in my lifo, I had to 
have brain surgery last year. Drugs help me get 
these things out, to help me relax. " That's what 
she's thinking about tonight. She sees one car cir-
cling the block, picking up other girls for a while. 
ln the back of her mind she thinks, "Maybe he's 
a cop. " But Dana is 40 years old, her head's 
kiUing her, and she stopped caring a long time 
ago. The john slows down and she walks up to 
him. "You working tonight?" he asks. "Uh-
huh, "she says and steps into his car. Dana holds 
out her hand and asks the man to make it worth 
her time. He gives her 10 dollars to eat her out 
before he makes the bust. 
1111 
Dana, Sharon, Debbie, and jocelyn are pseudo-
nyms. 
. 
]ada Yuan, a junior in Branford Co/Jege, is on 
the Itajf of TNJ. 
NOVEMBER }0, 1998 


**Title: SYMPTOMS OF THE FLU**
**Author: Makiko Harunari**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

Asian currency 
depreciations 
force students 
to make 
unexpected 
sacrifices. 
A 
lot of people thought I ~iled-1 was 
cially independent in my life, and having a job on cam-
pus sounded like a clistant story to me-until the sec-
ond semester of my freshman year." Last Christmas 
break, the one holiday during the year when students are free from 
work. marked the beginning of a painful downhill slide for Gary and 
other Asian natives at Yale. In a single day, the Indonesian rupiah lost 
32 
returned 
to Yale for the spring semester and approached the University for finan-
cial assistance. Due to Yale's financial aid policy, international students 
who do not request financial aid upon acceptance must sign a form 
stating that they will not ask for aid during their four years at Yale. 
Gary, who spent dose to $5,000 on personal expenses during the first 
semester of his freshman year, had not hesitated to sign this form. "The: 
THE NEW joURNAL 

signature is fairly binding. A repeal of this form is rare and must go 
under careful scrutiny," says Patricia Wei, an undergraduate admissions 
officer responsible for Asia. Without any aid or loans, Gary's parents 
resorted to borrowing money from friends fof his spring tuition. A 
monthly allowance was now a dteam, and, for the first time, Gary was 
on work-study. He juggled two jobs, one of which overlapped with his 
physics class, preventing him from attending any lectures. 

The worst had not yet struck. On May 16, Gary rerurned home 
for the summer and was confronted not only by economic peril but by 
riots in the streets. "Those people, Indonesians, they were starving. 
They just didn't have the money to eat. It didn't seem to have any rea-
son or rationality. I still believe that it is a miracle that I walked out of it 
alive." The exchange rate was now 16,500 rupiahs to the dollar, one-
eighth of its original value. "My father was basically being asked to pay 
what used to be worth $250,000 per school year." He continues, 
"My luggage, which included all my books and summer 
clothing and computer, was looted during the riots." It 
was not until late June that he was able to leave the 
country and rerurn to New Haven to work full-time 
at a laboratory. 

When Gary's parents realized that they could 
no longer spend a single penny on their son's edu-
cation, they were Speechless. In Asia, parents con-
sider education a priority in raising their childten, 
and financial sacrifice is not considered to be a bur-
den for the purposes of a quality education. The 
financial stability necessary to finance a good education 
has been regarded as normal up until this crisis, and thus it 
has bewildered many parents who have been laid off from 
work. Eugene Auh (CC '99) acknowledges that "a mother of an 
acquaintance back in Korea committed suicide because her husband 
had not told the family about his yearlong unemployment." The sud-
den end to comfortable living has taken Asians by such surprise that 
people are hesitant to reveal their problems, even to family members. 

The currency depreciation has not only obstructed higher education-
it has also ruined parents' dteams of making a committed gift to the 
next generation. 

T 
he economic crisis hit Indonesia harder than any other nation 
in the Asian community, so Gary's experience is one of the few 
extreme cases; however, other students have also been signifi-
candy affected. For Carmen Hui (TD '0 1), who attended Jakarta Inter-
national School in Indonesia, the financial crisis became a mental strain 
as much as an economic one. In March, her parents escaped to Hong 
Kong, and she has not been able to rerurn to Indonesia ever since. She 
has lost contact with many of her high school friends. "We are all sepa-
rated now," said Hui. "I feel like I have lost a great home." Out of all 
the countries she has lived in, she feels the strongest tie to Indonesia. 
Now she has no definite plans to rerum to the place where her identity 
was forged. 
NOVEMBER JO, 1998 

As trying as the grief and struggle may be, many Yale students have 
begun to make sacrifices for their Yale education. Some have decided to 
curtail their stay to three years. Others, like Auh, have started to work 
on campus, and some have attempted to maximize their funds by keep-
ing track of the currency market. Laiyee Leong (SY '94, GRD '03) 
rerurned to Yale as a first-year graduate student after working in Singa-
pore as a journalist for four years. Although she receives a full fellowship 
that covers her tuition, Leong must use her earnings for personal 
expenses. Aware that there is now only a fixed amount in her savings 
account, she is much more careful with her money. "When I was com-
ing to Yale this summer, I tried to exchange as litde as possible," she 
says. "The rate had risen to 1.77 Singapore dollars to one U.S. dollar, 
about a 20 percent decrease in currency value. I plan to exchange in 
increments from now on, too." As an undergraduate, she was never 
worried about buying anything at Store 24's high prices. Now 
returning to the same place just four years later, she feels 
like she has been caught in the twilight zone. 

The unexpected financial downfall in Asia has 
been a concern for both currendy enrolled stu-
dents and adtninistrators. "Overall international 
applications dropped for the first time for the 
class of '02," said Wei. "When I went on a 
recruitment trip to Asia this past April, I saw 
fewer numbers of students attending informa-
tion sessions." Although economics professor 
Giancarlo Corserti considers East and Southeast 
Asia to be the only regions where the currency depre-
ciation has led to a major economic depression, the 
admissions office foresees a delayed effect on the class of '03. 
With the recent 50 percent increase in foreign financial aid and the ini-
tiation of a recruitment trip to Latin America, the admissions office is 
trying to maintain Yale's diversity. The last five years have seen a signifi-
cant improvement in the internationalization of Yale; international 
applicants can now submit part of their application online and receive 
information through the newly lengthened brochure. 

"Yale, with its relatively stable financial structure, has been one of 
the least affected universities in the United States," said Wei. Neverthe-
less, as Assistant Dean Mary Li Hsu says, "I do know that a few stu-
dents with whom I am familiar have taken time off from school because 
of financial difficulties related to the economy." Gary is not one of 
them. This semester, along with taking six credits, he works over 20 
hours a week to pay off his bills and loans. Although he no longer can 
afford to spend money on luxuries, he is thankful for being able to stay 
at Yale. As Auh says, "Many of us, including me, are appreciating Yale a 
lot more now." 
' 
IIIJ 
Gary is a puudonym. 
Makiko Harunari is a sophomo~ in Ezra Stiks Co/kg~. 



**Title: The Misplaced Midterm**
**Author: Blair Charlton**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
N
early 200 physics students crowd the hall outside Davies
auditorium. A few walk quickly toward a wooden table,
and soon surround it. Others follow until they encircle the
students already at the table. Another ring of students
forms, then another and another. Those on the outside want to get to
the table so badly that they press against each other, forming a solid wall
around the table. By now those actually at the table are trapped by the
students around them. Confusion and anxiety build. Those on the out-
side examine the faces of those now forcing their way out. Some show
disappointment, some show relief, some laugh, and some show no
emotion at all. And those on the outside wonder what kind of face they
will be wearing when they get their tests back.

I am one of these students, but I will not get my test back today.
I'm learning disabled. Although the questions are the same and I'm
graded the same way as everyone else, my test is "different." While I
search again and again through the "A-to-C" stack of bluebooks, the
people behind me grumble and wonder what I'm doing. It seems that
my professor has misplaced my midterm. I am growing increasingly
anxious, but I cannot blame him; he did go out of his way to allow me
twice the normal time to take the test. Still, I can't help but feel some-
what like a second-class student. I woke up at 6:30 a.m. to hike up Sci-
ence Hill for this test, and now I'll have to jump through hoops to
remind my professor that I really did take the exam and that my blue-
book must exist somewhere.

I was born with dyslexia, a disability that affeets reading and
spelling. Although learning disabled students like myself receive special
treatment, we also have to make sacrifices, such as waking earlier than
everyone else to take a test and forfeiting extracurricular activities to
make time for our slowed reading and writing.

The hardest part of being dyslexic at Yale, however, is the general
ignorance that exists about the condition. Although many students
may have had some contact with a learning disabled person in the past,
the majority remain ignorant about learning disabilities. I confront
their misconceptions every day.

"Dyslexic" does not mean "blind." There is nothing wrong with my
eyes, and I don't see things backward. Yes, I can read a book upside
down, but you can, too, if you try. I have no problem telling my left
from my right, and I have never spelled anything backwards. But these
misunderstandings are minor compared to the belief that "learning dis-
ability" is synonymous with "incompetence." This misconception
occurs when others realize that I am different but can't quite tell how.
This uncertainty often leads to prejudice.

A learning disability is a condition that slows the acquisition of cer-
tain fundamental scholastic skills. In my case it simply means that I
read slowly, spell horribly, and have trouble with basic computations
like addition and subtraction. However, a learning disability in no way
affeets one's ability to think and reason. The majority of learning dis-
abled students have no trouble understanding elaborate concepts even
though they lack the ability to perform certain skills.

It may be said that those with learning disabilities have the body of
intelligence, but lack the hands and feet. Just as a physically handi-
capped person benefits from a prosthetic limb, those who are born with
a learning handicap benefit from special privi-
leges. These include extra time on tests and,
in some cases, a p~al waiver from the for-
eign language requirement. But compared to
some other universities-such as Brown,
which allows its learning disabled students
five years to graduate--Yale's approach to
learning disabilities is, to say the least, unac-
commodating.

That Yale would even accept a student
who has trouble with basic skills might seem
mysterious. Most people don't understand
that these skills are not actually required to
complete an Ivy League education. A learning
disabled student can perform at a level equal
or superior to other Yale students. Granted,
they must find alternative ways of learning
that compensate for the basic skills that they
lack. As my lab instructor put it, "Good
mathematicians don't bother with arith-
metic." Most students don't understand this
and ding to the belief that learning disabled
students somehow "snuck" into Yale by gain-
ing an unf.Ur advantage over other students-
"Anyone could have done well on the SATs if
they weren't timed." This common miscon-
ception leads to a feeling of distance that trou-
bles learning disabled people.

Distressing as they sometimes might be,
there are aspects of my disability that have led
to some rather comical circumstances. Last
summer I was traveling alone in Europe.
When I entered England, I was given a small
card to fill out explaining where I had been,
how long I was going to stay, and so on. Hav-
ing visited a few other countries, I had grown
accustomed to these little cards as something
to be disregarded. So I was very surprised
when two armed guards approached me while
I was waiting in line to leave the train station.
It seems that I had misspelled "Amerrica" on
the card; this error, in addition to the fact that
I had been traveling in Morocco during an
African bombing incident, made me suspect.
After a tense moment I was able to produce
my passport and share a laugh with the offi-
cial. Luckily I can reBect on such events with
humor; it allows me to appreciate that though
I might have to wait a few more days for my
tats to be graded, I will never be suspected of
international terrorism at Yale.


**Title: A Land in Full**
**Author: Ronen Givony**
**Page number(s): 36-37**

A Land in Full
In his new novel, Tom Wolfe devours '90s America.
by Ro nen G ivony
A Man in Full, Tom Wolfe (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 1998), pp. 742.
Among American writers of the 20th cen-
tury, perhaps only Tom Wolfe (GRD '57) can
be said to have drawn consistendy definitive
pictures of individuals and society from not
one, not two, but three decades. It was Wolfe's
reporting that captured San Francisco's '60s
counterculture in The Electric Kool-Aid Acid
Test, and then went on to show the death
throes of black nationalism in Radi~al Chic &
Mau-Mauing the Flak Catchers. In the '70s, he
coined what came to be the quintessential tide
of the country's baby boomers-"The Me
Generation" -and wrote about a nation mov-
ing in both ambition and direction toward the
heavens in The Right Stuff In the '80s, he
walked the streets of New York City-"where
things were happening!" -for six years and
produced his first novel, The Bonfire of the
Vanities, one of the decade's best-selling books
and perhaps the final statement of its greed
and corruption. Now, Wolfe is back with his
second novel, A Man in Fu/4 a book that tries
to capture the '90s with the same skills that
have made the past 30 years essentially his.

What has separated Wolfe from his con-
temporaries, as well as most of his recent liter-
ary predecessors, is his devotion to a detailed
realism, which demands painstaking research
and complete immersion in the surroundings
he chooses to write about. In his 1973 book,
The New jounullism, Wolfe advanced a theory
of nonfiction as an art form that would even-
tually come to replace the novel. In a 1989lit-
erary manifesto ("Stalking the Billion-Footed
Beast") published in Harper's, he modified
and added to this theory, claiming that Amer-
ican fiction must return to the kind of ambi-
tious, realistic, socially relevant "big novels"
once produced abroad by Dickens, Zola, and
Balzac and in our own country by Dreiser,
Sinclair Lewis, and Steinbeck.

Such a diehard commitment to tireless,
down-in-the-trenches reporting, as well as
direct interaction with those he writes about,
has come to be a staple of American journal-
ism, but has kept Wolfe, for the most part,
outside of the highbrow literary establish-
ment. As John Updike has written, Wolfe's
writing is thought by many to be not litera-
ture, but entertainment.

Wolfe is still best known for just how
much damned fun his books are to read.
Wolfe's
~tyle-his kinetic, excited prose,
jammed. full of exclamation marks, italicized
phrases, onomatopoeic sound bites, and
inside jokes at his characters' expense--has set
him apart in an age which increasingly
believes that good fiction is abstract fiction. A
quick survey of prominent postwar writers-
Thomas
Pynchon,
Jorge
Luis
Borges,
Vladimir Nabokov-reveals writing that has
turned away from strict reporting of the
everyday world to increasingly chaotic, frag-
mented, absurd depictions oflife.

Wolfe's first venture into fiction, Bonfire,
represents his inlplicit rejection of this kind of
writing. In his own words, Bonfire was an
attempt to "cram as much of New York City
as possible between two covers." The public
eagerly responded, even if the critics claimed
the book's half-hearted ending, lack of emo-
tional depth, and solely external characters
made it fall one step shon of greamess. If Bon-
fire represented a compression of Gotham, A
Man in FuU attempts a much larger project:
cramming America between two covers.

Wolfe has adjusted every aspect of his sto-
rytelling for this increase in scope. Eleven
years in the writing, A Man in FuU weighs in
at well over 700 pages, and includes several
hundred characters, four subplots, and
sprawling descriptions of both the Georgia
countryside and the Northern California
urban belt. It also features Wolfe's usual fare of
serious reporting sprinkled with li~ral doses
of humor. Like Charlie Croker, the book's
main figure, the chief characteristic of A Man
in FuU is its massive size.

The book opens during a quail hunt at
Croker's 29,000-acre Adanta plantation,
Turpmcime. Croker is the All-American guy
whose presence is felt at every point of the
book. Sixty years old, a decorated Vietnam vet
and former college football star, Croker has
raised himself up from the poveny of south-
ern Georgia ("din poor and common as pig
tracks") to become one of the most inlponant
real estate developers in Atlanta. He's dumped
his first wife and now carries on his arm an
achingly gorgeous 28 year old named ~rena,
who, at half of Charlie's age, "has Second
Wife written all over her." His many praises
are sung all over Atlanta, and even his own
servants at Turpmcime have written a song in
his honor:

Charlie Croker was a man in full.
He had a back like a Jersey bull.
Didn't like okra, didn't like pears.
He liked a gal that had no hairs.
Charlie Croker! Charlie Croker! Charlie
Croker!

Still, Charlie is not without his problems:
his latest venture, a multimillion dollar com·
plex built· during Atlanta's 1996 Olympics,
lovingly named Croker Concourse, has
become a hideously expensive Aop. The banks
are calling about the 800 million dollars-



**A Man in Full: A Review**
**Author: Ronm Givony**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"800 million dollars!" as Wolfe interjects-he 
owes in debts, for which Croker can't even 
begin to pay the inter,est. As a result, Charlie is 
$200 million in the 'fed, making a seizure of 
his many airplanes, cars, houses and horses 
likely. And his reputation is at stake in 
Adanta, where "they liked to talk about fami-
ly, but money was what it all came down to at 
the end of the day." To satisfy the consultants 
at PlannersBanc who keep harassing him for 
money, Charlie decides to lay off some work-
ers from his food packaging operation and 
search for other means to pay back his debts. 
Meanwhile, two other plots begin to 
unfold. Roger White II, a successful, educat-
ed, black corporate lawyer who can't seem to 
shake his old Morehouse nickname, Roger 
Too White, has been asked to work on a case 
that may upset the city's fragile racial balance. 
Fareek Fanon, Georgia Tech's All-American 
running back and 225 pounds of attitude, has 
been accused of raping Elizabeth Armholster, 
whose f.unily is "one of the first five names 
you'd think of if the subject was the White 
Establishment in Atlanta." Across the country 
in Oakland, a young laborer named Conrad 
Hensley has been laid off from one of Croker's 
frozen food packaging plants. The two sub-
plots begin to merge with Charlie at the cen-
ter of the story. Evenrually, Charlie is present-
ed with a Faustian bargain by Roger Too 
White, Atlanta's black mayor, and the Georgia 
Tech board: sell out the Armholster family 
(old friends he has sworn to help) and have 
his debts all but forgiven, or maintain his 
honor and potentially lose everything else. 
Throughout the sprawling narrative, 
Atlanta's invisible but palpable presence is 
constandy in the background. After 11 years 
of research, Wolfe has captured the many 
nuances of the city "too busy to hate" perfect-
ly-right down to the deep cigarette-induced 
baritones of Adanta's society women-even if 
it is a distinctly Northerner's perception. One 
racial tension after another is explored in A 
Man in Fu}/, the mistruSt of a city 75 percent 
black, yet still dominated by white business; 
the ironies of a city government where blacks 
question who is truer to the race; and even the 
different perceptions of rich and poor whites, 
viewing each other as if they were all but dif-
ferent colors themselves. 


But unlike most of Wolfe's other books, 
race is not the theme of this novel. A Man in 
F.Jl explores the different ways that America, 
NOVEMBER 30, 1998 
regardless of race, class, or gender, is coming 
to terms with the confusion of the 1990s and 
the approaching millenium, of a world chang-
ing too fast As the Wiz, Charlie's Wharton-
educated CFO explains, "the paradigm has 
shifted." Conrad, for one, lives in a plastic 
suburb described as "one goulash of condo-
miniums," where one community can only be 
· distinguished from another by the reappear-
ance of ?-Elevens and Wendy's franchises. 
Martha Croker, Charlie's ex-wife, finds herself 
single again and suddenly out of step with the 
flow of things. Charlie himself, while listening 
to a pseudo-postmodern critic discussing Fou-
cault and subjectivity in a piece of homoerotic 
art, feels 
A sudden stab of doubt ... Was it he, 
Charlie, who was out of step? Had his eyes 
been closed when some irresistible shift took 
place on the moral terrain? Or were all these 
people ... just plain intimidated, afraid to let it 
be known that they weren't sophisticated 
enough to be cosmopolites of the new 
Adanta, the international city? 


Wolfe has finally developed the talent to 
look beyond external appearances, and mak~ 
his characters three-dimensional. The egalitar-
ian sense of suffering that A Man in Full por-
trays, as each character builds his casde in the 
sky and watches it crumble, is Wolfe's silent 
assertion that America's realities, worries and 
doubts essentially plague everyone, once their 
immediate differences are swept away. 


Still, A Man in Full is not without its own 
problems. Wolfe hasn't learned how to end a 
novel. Simply put, Wolfe seems to have run 
out of time-at 68, this will probably be his 
last book. He drops the ending on the reader 
with none of the build-up and ornamentation 
of the powerful, informed writing of the first 
600 pages. 


A Man in Full may not have perfectly cap-
tured an entire nation's hopes and doubts, but 
it comes as close as any attempt seen so far in 
the 1990s. And who knows what Tom Wolfe 
has left up his sleeve? The last page of the 
book offers hope for another commentary in 
the future: "'Oh, don't worry,' said the man of 
the world, 'I'll be back.'" 

**Good News: Public Access Cable Sweeps the Clouds Away**
**Author: Andrew Youn**
**Page number(s): 38**

"Army Training Classics" is the best show on public 
access television. Airing Wednesday nights on channel 
29, it's essentially a broadcast of old War Department 
training films in grainy black and white, interspersed with 
ultra-militant soundbites. While watching on October 28, I 
learned how to crawl under barbed wire (on my back), how to 
cross an enemy trench (quickly); and why TNT is the armed 
forces' standard-issue explosive. 


Welcome to the Media Revolution. Along with MTV, CNN, and 
Lifetime, Yale students were plugged into three public television sta-
tions-27, 28, 29-as part of our cable package this year. At first 
glance, the stations seem to air only religious zealots, but looks can be . 
deceiving. 


Citizens Television, Inc. (CTV) is the non-profit provider of public 
access television to the greater New Haven area. Located far north on 
State Street, its unassuming storefront conceals a high-tech interior 
complete with four editing suites, a massive studio, and a Star Trek-like 
room with 20 VCRs stacked on top of one another. The acting execu-
tive director of CTV, James Martino, is something of a media fanatic. 
"Television is so central," he says. "It's everything in our society. I want 
to demystify it, to not understand it is dangerous. All sons of terrible, 
evil things can be done with television." 


These are strange words coming from a corporate type wearing a 
dress shirt, tie, and wire-rimmed glasses. But hold on-as the Brooks 
Brothers top gives way to youthful jeans and sneakers, Martino's enthu-
siasm for television becomes contagious. 


His vision for CTV comes out in lengthy bursts of verbiage. Com-
menting on Citizens Television before he took over, Martino says, "It 
wasn't in bad shape, but it was stagnant. Not moving. To me, that's 
bad. We were fulfilling all of our obligations, but not moving forward." 
He can hardly keep the disgust out of his voice. 


Martino has a long list of improvements in the works-a five-year 
,_ plan, if you will. The omnipresent shabby-looking rug seen on all of 
~ the studio shows will soon be phased out by a new generation of props. 
] As he hies his stride, Martino elaborates about his plans to advertise 
~ CTV on the Prevue Channel ("the only game in town"), build a second 
1 studio space, and improve production training to make the television 
~ shows look somewhat professional. 


There's certainly a lot of work to be done. Upon actually watching 
the shows on CTV, it might be tempting to conclude that, well, public 
access television just plain sucks. Religious groups, 
which take up more than half the programming time, 
range from over-zealous, heavy-jowled, sweaty local 
ministers to nationwide gloom-and-doom crack-pots 
with their own 800-numbers. A significant chunk of the 
remaining time is composed of what I like to call 
"endurance-television," such as hour-long interviews 
about nothing in particular with people talking very slowly. 


A personal favorite is a program that features a fixed camera showing 
the tops of people's heads in a NASA control room for hours on end. 


Most embarrassing for CTV is the question of how many people actu-
ally tune in, an issue that Martino awkwardly ducks (he'll get back to 
me on that). 


At the same time though, shows like "Army Training Classics" 
redeem CTV as a valuable enterprise-seriously. The non-commercial-
ism that makes CTV so lame is the same factor that makes the occa-
sional program so eclectic and amusing. It is gratifying to have an 
escape from a world of nano-second soundbites, stick-thin supermodels 
and catchy jingles. It is healthy to see ordinary, homely people on TV. 


For example, consider "Dolly Curtis Interviews," which features none 
other than Dolly herself (don't worry, I hadn't heard of her either), trav-
eling around Connecticut in search of local heroes. At least Dolly won't 
nauseate you with endless coverage of the Lewinsky a.ff.Ur or, to be hon-
est, Kosovo. 


Perhaps the show closest to my heart, though, is the brand-new 
"Today's Good News Show," whose selling line is: "No more bad 
news!" Noticeably absent from the inaugural show was any media 
hype, or the standard shooting-stabbing-sexual perversion story. 
Instead, the viewer is treated to a nice interview with a local couple who 
own a small business, while their little children run in and out of the 
picture. Then, a technical error caused the airing of a brief but informa-
tive video about the jellybean industry. The show rallied with a panel 
discussion featuring the mayors of West Haven, Hamden, and New 
Haven chatting pleasantly about "the issues" people claim to care 
about. The clincher: an interview with an endearing old man who was 
a torch-bearer in the 1936 Berlin Olympics. 


Maybe the CTV "Media Revolution" is not for everybody. But I 
think Sydney Evans, the producer of "Today's Good News Show," 
sums it up pretty well: "You see stereotype after stereotype on televi-
sion. What we're trying to do is bring out people's humanity." 

A DIVISION OF YALE UNIVERSITY 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES 
REPROGRAPHICS· 
& IMAGING SERVICES 
155 Whitney Avenue • 432-6560 
FAX: 432-6274 
http://www.yale.edu/ris 


**Title: LUCK**
**Author: Langston Hughes**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
November 27- December 19, 1998 
LUCK 
Sometimes 
a crumb falls 
from the table of joy. 
Sometimes a bone is flung. 
To some people love is given, 
To others, only heaven. 

**Title: (Untitled)**
**Author: Lynn Nottage**

By Lynn Nottage 
irected by Seret Scott 
