Publication date: November 30, 1990
Volume: 23
Issue number: 3

**MASTHEAD:**
- **EDITOR'S NOTE:**


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
EDITOR'S NOTE
LETTERS
NEWSJOURNALS
Yale Reading Machine
New Haven Greens
Housing Scene
FEATURES
Pastore-izing the Police
Saying No to Hate
Hidden Obsessions
AFTERTHOUGHT
Changsha Christmas


**Title: EDITOR'S NOTE**
**Author:** (Not specified)
**Page number(s): 5**


**Title: LETTERS**
**Page number(s): 6**


**Title: NEWSJOURNALS**
**Page number(s): 7**


**Title: Pastore-izing the Police**
**Author: Josh Plaut**
**Page number(s): 12**

There's a new police chief in town. From redecorating the station house to endors-
ing drug decriminalization, Nick Pastore is letting the community know that 
things have changed in the New Haven Police Department. By Josh Plaut.


**Title: Saying No to Hate**
**Author: Jennifer Pitts**
**Page number(s): 18**

Some crimes are more equal than others. Or at least that's what the law says. On 
October 1 Connecticut enacted a new law which mandates stiffer penalties for 
crimes motivated by hate. By Jennifer Pitts.


**Title: Hidden Obsessions**
**Author: Janina Palmisano**
**Page number(s): 22**

For several years, physicians have charted the growing number of college stu-
dents suffering from eating disorders. Three women bring the point home. By 
Janina Palmisano.


**Title: Changsha Christmas**
**Author: Tony Reese**
**Page number(s): 26**

For teachers working for the Yale-China Association, holidays away from home 
can bring many surprises. The writer describes one Christmas he spent in the 
province of Hunan. By Tony Reese.


**HAIR GROUP SKIN CLINIQUE**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
HAIR GROUP SKIN CLINIQUE 
"BEST 
The Cut 
The Color 
The Finish 
Short Never 
Looked This 
Good ... 
NEW HAVEN" 
HAIR SALON 
AWARD 
1985-1990 
916 Whalley Avenue, New Haven, Ct. 387-6799


**Editor's Note**
**Author: MR**
**Page number(s): 5**

Editor•s Note 
As we put the final touches on the last issue of the year, we 
are making plans for 1991. Last year at this time, we were 
sifting through papers in Sterling Library's archives, con-
tacting alumni, and talking with professors who remem-
bered the 1970 May Day demonstrations at Yale. In a theme 
issue that came out last February, The New Journal focused 
on events at Yale during the spring of 1970. TNJ writers 
profiled Black Panther Bobby Seale, the students who 
served as the models for Garry Trudeau's Doonesbury char-
acters, and former student activist Kurt Schmoke, now 
mayor of Baltimore. 
The May Day issue foliowed a tradition of TNJ theme 
issues. In the past, we have devoted issues to co-education 
at Yale, the Vietnam War's impact on the University and 
AIDS in New Haven. 
Putting out a theme issue is a special event. Long before 
we actually start writing, taking pictures or designing, busi-
nesspeople sell extra advertisements, editors and writers 
track down leads, and designers look for cool graphics. A 
theme issue brings the staff together. Rather than working 
independently until production weekend, writers, photog-
raphers and designers collaborate from the beginning. 
We are already at work on a theme issue for 1991. We 
are eager for your input and invite enthusiastic writers, 
photographers, designers and businesspeople to contribute 
to the project. Even if you have never worked for a maga-
zine, we welcome your ideas and your interest. To join us, 
please come to the Branford Common Room on December 4 
at 9:00 p.m. If you have any questions, please call Motoko 
Rich at 436-0827 or Lisa Silverman at 436-1877. 
-MR 



TilE BLOSSOM SHOP 
by TilE MAIN STEM, ltd. 
203-772-1550 
296 Elm Street 
New Haven, Connecticut 06511 
Open 7 days a week 
Mon.-Sat. 11:30 AM-10:30 PM 
Sun. 12-9:30 PM



898 WHALLEY A VE.• NEW HAVEN 
389-6624 
A F€MINIST BOOK STORE 
9JS StAT£ST~"N€WHA~~~Il om•l&Ol' 
Boo!« 
Oltu5ic 
3cwdly 
G!fr5 
By· 'F01U&1/x!ut' 
tWomen




ARETHUSA 
BC>C>K. S~C>P 
offers doubt, renown, tri-
umph and delusion over 
20 centuries, in an array 
· of classic out-of-print and 
used books. 
87 Audubon Street 
(203) 624-1848 
New Haven CT 06511



NEWS 
Short Distance from TD 
Open Mon.-Fri. 7 a.m.-6 p.m. 
Sat. 7a.m. -4 p.m. 
Sun. 7a:m.-2p.m. 
91 Audubon St. 
497-9800



HUNAN WOK 
Chinese 
R estaurant 
Szechuan 
Hunan 
Mandarin 
Cuisine 
Luncheon Specials 
Take Out Available 
Open 7Days 
Monday - Thursday: 
11:30 a.m.- 10 p.m. 
Friday - Saturday: 11:30 a.m. - 11 p.m. 
Sunday: 2 p.m. - 10 p.m . 
776-9475 
142 York Street



**Letters to the Editor**
**Author: H. Asante Scott**
**Page number(s): 6**

Letters 
To the Editor: 
I recently had an opportunity to read 
Emily Bazelon's article, "Making the 
Mosaic: Non-Traditional Casting at the 
Dramat," and felt a strong need to com-
ment. 
I graduated from the Yale School 
of Drama's Theater Administration pro-
gram in 1978. Since then I have experi-
enced non-traditional casting in a few 
different arenas, such as the Milwaukee 
Repertory Theatre, the Theatre Panel of 
the Ohio Arts Council, and the D.C. 
Commission 
on 
the 
Arts 
and 
Humanities. 
Recently, I assumed a new posi-
tion at the Yale School of Drama and the 
Yale Repertory Theater as Minority 
Recruitment Officer and Associate 
Director of Community Affairs. 
Returning to Yale after twelve years, I 
became increasingly dismayed as I read 
about the non-traditional casting prac-
tices at the Yale Dramat in The New 
Journal. I suppose I always labored 
under the illusion tha~ Yale would be at 
the vanguard of change. It also seems to 
me that non-traditional casting policies 
would be instituted much more easily 
by a student theater organization than 
by a professional regional company. 
Perhaps David DeRose, Director of 
Undergraduate Theater Studies, and the 
Dramat should do a little research. Nqn- . 
traditional casting is not new, and our 
audiences are more intelligent than we 
think. To Tara Murphy's uninformed 
statement that "No one can answer how 
to c.ast people of color in a play that is 
historically white," I can only respond 
that regional ·theaters have been provid-
ing the answers (in one form or another) 
for over ten years. Furthermore, I 
believe the Yale Dramat should serious-
ly evaluate its own actions. To suggest 
that ethnic theater groups may segre-
gate the Yale theater community is 
patently absurd when, by their own 
records, since "the fall of 1988 ... only 
eight people of color performed in six 
mainstage shows." 
I am not suggesting that the casting 
situation is ideal. Theaters in this coun-
try certainly have a long way to go 
before the practice becomes routine. 
And though there are still issues to be 
resolved, organizations like the Non-
Traditional Casting Project as well as 
individuals are working hard to achieve 
a better understanding. 
Sincerely, 
H. Asante Scott 



**Yale's Reading Machine**
**Author: Caitlin Macy**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NewsJournals 
Yale's Reading 
Machine 
For blind students at Yale, looking up a 
quotation in a textbook can take hours. 
Instead of flipping pages, they must fast 
forward and rewind through cassette 
recordings of the books. "You've got 40 
or SO cassettes to deal with every 
semester," said Matt Weed (SM '93). 
"They're a huge waste of time." Until 
now, Weed has depended on cassettes 
to complete his reading assignments. 
The Resource Office, which aids dis-
abled students, employs ten people to 
record class assignments onto the tapes. 
These readers log up to 200 hours of text 
per blind student each semester. 

Two Yale undergraduates have 
invented a vocalized text scanning sys-
tem which could make readers and cas-
settes obsolete. Located in Cross 
Campus Library's basement, the system 
is the brainchild of Weed and comput-
ing assistant Victor Grigorieff (SM '92). 
When the two met in October 1989, 
Weed showed Grigorieff a program 
called "Outspoken," which uses speech 
to explain Macintosh graphics. As the 
cursor lands on words such as "File, 
Edit, Format,"a voice pronounces the 
words aloud. The students realized that 
if a program could vocalize commands, 
it could also lend voice to other printed 
words. 

Last spring Weed and Grigorieff 
asked the Provost's Office for funds to 
create the text scanning system. "We 
had to get promises from <!"omputer 
companies that the scanner would work 
in order to justify a $1S,OOO system," 
said Grigorieff. The Provost's Office 
approved the project in May, and Weed 
and Grigorieff began to assemble the 
system. 

"Theoretically the system is not 
very complicated," said Grigorieff. The 
system hooks up a Hewlett-Packard text 
scanner to a Macintosh FX II. The scan-
ner, which looks and works like a small, 
personal Xerox machine, photographs a 
page of text and, in about 20 seconds, 
transfers it to the computer screen. 
Students with limited vision can enlarge 
the text and read it on the FX II's 19-inch 
screen, or like blind students, simply 
command the computer to read the text 
aloud. They can also copy the material 
onto a floppy disk and listen to it later 
in their rooms. The typical Macintosh 
computer can read the copied text 
aloud. 

The scanning system has a number 
of advantages over cassettes. Instead of 
fast forwarding, students command the 
computer to read text aloud from any-
where in the document simply by hit-
ting a search key. A floppy disk, which 
holds 600 pages of text, also takes up 
less space than cassettes. ''When I have 
SO tapes lying around, it's not easy to 
pack them up," said Weed. "It's much 
easier to throw all my books on a hard 
disk." Weed can also make notes in the 
margins of his books. "I type my notes 
into the text in italics. When I want them 
read to me, I tell the machine to search 
for everything italicized." 

Still, the scanner can neither 
describe graphs nor transcribe hand-
written texts like human readers can. 
But Weed believes the scanner will 
replace readers. "As better software 
comes out, it is our determination to 
eliminate the need for readers at Yale," 
he said. 

Resource Office Director Fay 
Hanson believes the system will benefit 
not only blind students but others as 
well. Dyslexics, for example, could prof-
it from learning new material through 
more than one mode--aural as well as 
visual. 

The Resource Office plans to hire a 
computing coordinator, who will pro-
vide technical assistance and train peo-
ple to use the system. Grigorieff esti-
mates that it would take a blind person 
with no computer experience 40 hours 
to learn how to scan text. Weed, who 
had extensive experience using a 
Macintosh, learned in about 20 hours. 
"The system saves me time and allows 
me to perform more like an average stu-
dent/' he said. He and Grigorieff are not 
currently seeking a patent for their 
invention, and said they would share it 
with other schools if asked. "As far as 
we know, this machine is the first of its 
kind," said Grigorieff. Visually disabled 
students will be able to use the text scan-
ner early next year. 
-caitlin Macy


**New Haven Greens**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

Serena Spruill grew up in New Haven's 
Hill neighborhood, where she supports 
five children, one granddaughter, and 
one niece. Since 1979, she has belonged 
to the Inner City Co-op Farm, a four-
acre plot where local residents grow 
vegetables. The food Spruill takes home 
from the garden is an important part of 
her household's diet. "If I wasn't 
involved we would have no vegetables 
to eat because money is tight and has to 
be stretched as far as it will go," she 
said. "The garden helps out one hell of a 
lot." 

In 1978, a group of Hill neighbor-
hood residents who did not have their 
own backyards petitioned the state for 
temporary use of a vacant lot between 
Legion and North Frontage Avenues. 
The state approved and they founded 
the Co-op Farm the same year. The fed-
eral government put up several tho.u-
sand dollars to help the co-op get start-
ed. At first, the ground could not sup-
port vegetation, but after two years of 
composting, members harvested their 
first crop--3,800 pounds of vegetables. 
This year 75 families belong to the co-
op, and they share 50,000 pounds of 40 
different kinds of herbs and vegetables. 
A board of directors decides what to 
grow, and a full-time director manages 
the co-op's finances. 

The only requirements for mem-
bership in the co-op are residency in 
New Haven and two hours of work per 
week. The garden has no individual 
family plots, and because it is a non-
profit organization, members do not sell 
their produce to the public. Members 
divide the harvest among participating 
families, with larger families taking 
home greater shares. For families 
dependent on food stamps, the co-op 
provides an important dietary supple-
ment. 

But budget cuts and bureaucratic 
problems threaten the co-op's future. In 
the past few years the federal govern-
ment has cut funding for the program, 
forcing the garden to operate on a 
shoestring budget. Last year the co-op 
worked with a $12,500 budget, with 
only $4,500 coming from the govern-
ment, compared to $8,000 the previous 
year. As government funding dwindles, 
the co-op hopes foundations will take 
up the slack. But these foundations also 
operate on limited budgets. "So many 
different groups come in to the founda-
tions with proposals now that it's tough 
for them to meet everyone's needs," 
said Joe Moye, the co-op's director and 
longtime Hill resident. He spends 
much of his time tracking down grant 
money, and the amount of aid fluctu-
ates. 

In the meantime, the co-op has 
found creative and cheap ways to meet 
its basic needs. Leaves and manure for 
composting come from the Evergreen 
Cemetery and the Yale Polo Club, and 
local farmers donate seeds. But the 
board has other projects it wants to 
implement, including satellite gardens 
throughout New Haven, household 
composting of food waste and a senior 
citizen's program. Members also hope 
to expand their programs to include 
environmental education for children. 
The children currently farm one area of 
the garden, and the co-op wants to offer 
biology lessons and field trips. "But 
right now we have a small budget, so 
we just do what we can," said Sylvia 
Dorsey, who serves on the co-op's 
board of directors. 

Government bureaucracy poses 
another headache. The state legislature 
has twice shot down a bill proposing 
that the state transfer control of the lot 
to New Haven. So far, the measures 
have failed because city officials are 
divided over plans for land usage. 
Currently, merchants who want a high-
way leading downtown, housing advo-
cates and the Yale Medical School are 
vying for control of the land. "The high-
way option would knock the co-op 
out," said John McGuertey, executive 
director of the City Planning 
Commission. According to Jonathan 
Rosenthal, director· of Municipal 
Projects for the city, the co-op would 
not be compatible with housing or med-
ical school plans either. 

The co-op sits on the largest unde-
veloped tract in New Haven, a valuable 
plot of land originally intended for 
highway construction. The co-op has 
only temporary use of the property, but 
any time plans for development arise, 
Rosenthal's department receives a rash 
of protest letters. Co-op members have 
also built a fence around their garden to 
reduce theft, and Rosenthal sees this as 
a move to mark the land as their own. 
"The co-op members are a very crafty 
bunch of individuals," he said. He con-
siders their desire to stay on the land 
unrealistic. "They are expecting a large 
subsidy if they expect the state to give 
them title. It's like the difference 
between letting relatives stay for the 
night in your spare bedroom and asking 
them to move in." 

Moye would like the state to reco-
mmend that the co-op remain 
untouched, or that the state sell the land 
to the co-op for a reduced price. "The 
entire empty lot stretches over 26 acres, 
so there's no reason why they couldn't 
make changes and leave us our share," 
he said. Rosenthal defines the problem 
in utilitarian terms. "The question is 
whether, in such a densely populated 
city, the co-op is the best use of the land 
for the most people," he said. 

Moye believes the co-op is the best 
use of the land because it is so impor-
tant to member families. "The members 
share the common denominator of 
poverty. The food they bring home is 
proof that together they can do some-
thing about that," he said. "If the city 
sees that the community is organized to 
support their garden, they'll think twice 
about taking the land away." 
-Emily Bazelon


**Monday Buffets**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Monday Buffets 
5:00-10:00 
$13.50 
B.Y.O.B. 
A JAPANE-SE 
'RE.STAUAANT 
68 Howe St. 
New Haven 
777-9760


**Pastore-izing the Police**
**Author: Josh Plaut**
**Page number(s): 12**

Pastore-izing the Police 
Josh Plaut 
New Haven Chief of Police Nicholas Pastore doesn't mix:tce 
tough, act tough and crush any problems." 
,, 
words. "We can't just kick ass and lock people up;' he ·said. 
Throughout the 80s, the New Haven police department 
"There's more to this job than that." Since he took over as 
had a reputation for brutality. "During the Farrell years, the 
New Haven's top cop nine months ago, Pastore has spoken 
police saw themselves as an occupying army," said John 
loud and clear on a host of issues. He supports the city's 
Williams, a local lawyer specializing in police brutality cases. 
intravenous needle exchange. He decries what he calls "insti-
Farrell, Williams says, believed that some excesses were par~ 
tutional racism." He even gave a much-publicized interview 
of an officer's job. "When he considered people for promo-
to High Times -a drug-culture magazine-calling for the 
tions, Farrell viewed complaints as a positive," Williams said. · 
decriminalization of marijuana and cocaine. Since last March, 
Pastore believes Farrell's philosophy even attracted new cops 
Pastore hasn't missed many opportunities to speak his mind. 
to New Haven. "Many young officers joined in the past five 
The message that he is promulgating in no uncertain terms: 
years because the department had this Miami Vice approach," 
the New Haven police department is running according to a 
Pastore said. "They came here because they wanted to kick 
new set of rules. 
ass." 
His ideas about police work may be new, but Pastore is 
While Farrell's approach lured recruits to New Haven, 
an old face in town. He graduated from the University of 
Pastore believes it wasn't solid police work. Officers can be as 
New Haven and joined the------------------------ tough as they want, Pastore 
police department in 1962. By "Many young officers j"oined in the 
says, but brute force isn't 
1969, he had risen to the rank of 
going to make crime go away. 
deputy chief inspector. Two past five years because the 
In fact, brutality may even 
years later he left the depart-
encourage crime. "We get 
ment for a year-long stint as a department had this Miami Vice 
tough, they get tougher. We 
special 
assistant to New 
go in with violence and come 
Haven's 
state's 
attorney. approach. They came here 
out with more violence," he 
During the 70s, he continued to 
said. Under Farrell Pastore 
rise in the department. By 1981 beCaUSe they Wanted tO kiCk aSS. " 
says, police brutality just 
he was director of operations, 
antagonized the New Haven 
but Pastore left in 1981, shortly 
community. 
after Biagio DiLieto was elected mayor. Pastore returned as 
The new chief wants to mend relations between the 
chief last March, intent on shaking things up. 
department and the community. His plan: a program called 
The new chief has left few traces of his predecessor, 
Community-Based Policing. In the Fair Haven, Newhallville, 
William Farrell, who headed the department through the 80s. 
Hill and Dixwell communities, eleven officers work with local 
Pastore stopped sting operations, got rid of the police dog 
residents to improve neighborhoods. Their activities include 
unit, and moved a number of desk officers back onto patrol. 
keeping the streets clean, referring drug users to treatment, 
He even called in local kids to paint over a station house 
and ensuring that neighborhood parks are properly lit. Pastore 
mural commissioned by the former chief. Pastore wanted to 
says this partnership not only benefits neighborhoods, but als<> 
clean house because he believed Farrell's police philosophy 
helps officers gain the confidence of the people. He hopes to 
didn't work. "The department was stuck in a militaristic, 
re-establish the credibility of the department as protector of 
arrest-machine mindset," Pastore said. "The idea was to get 
the peace. When people trust the police, Pastore says, they will 
12 The New Journal 



**Nicholas Pastore's Controversial Views**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Nicholas Pastore's views on drug decriminalization and community-based policing have met with skepticism from other pollee chiefs. 
November 30, 1990 
The New Journal 13 


**A New Approach to the Drug War**
**Author: Josh Plaut**
**Page number(s): 17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
td4oal•- and gang leaders during his late--
walks. "I need to know nocturnal 
Haven as well as I know the high 
population," he said. 

Using information collected both at 
night and during the day, Pastore hopes 
penetrate the major drug suppliers in 
Haven-the La Cosa Nostra crime 
'rg;ilniLzoGuon and a number of drug-
street gangs. "We want to make 
pificant arrests," he said. 

While Pastore thinks small-time 
are bogus, he's not content to let 
go along their merry ways. The 
favors what he calls disruption. 
strategy uses a highly-visible police 
Pft!!SeJilce to make buyers feel nervous. 
a drug deal takes more than a 
minute, the buyer never returns," 
Pastore said. "I want to bring police offi-
cers between the consumer and suppli-
, The police, Pastore explains, know 
HV.neJ~ dealers operate. To disrupt busi-
ness, they only need officers in those 
places. 

Pastore's approach to the war on 
drugs differs from the strategy of most 
IU~"~;>U<:e chiefs around the country. "I'm a 
strong proponent of decriminalization," 
Pastore said. "Drug trafficking has 


already been de facto decriminaliZed. 
The courts artd jails are overwhelmed." 

Pastore prefers medical rather than 
punitive solutions to the dru8 problem; 
he wants to use police officers to get 
drug abusers into treatiMnt rather than 
jail cells. 

Other police chiefs in Conaecticut 
are not convinced. They atpe that to 
stop drugs, officers have to get tough 
with drug dealers. DanbUry Chief 
Nelson Macedo thJnb dealers should be 
put to death. He argues that Mao 
Zedong smothered nan:olk ue in China 
by killing all of the dflllen. OIMr ~ 
chiefs question whether treatment will 
be effective. Chief Dennis An.lano of 
Madison argues that people only get 
treatment because courts force them and 
that they start doing druss apia\ wheJil 
treatment ends. 

Wallinglord Chief 
Dortenzio worries that decriminaliza-
tion would send the wrong message. ~ 
questions the logic of trying to educate 
kids about the dangers of drugs while 
making drug laws more lenient. 

"Education is a much better response 
than decriminalization," he said. 

For Pastore, drug ~ucation and 
decriminalization are part of the same 
Jennifer Pitts/The New Journal 
effort to shrink the demand for drugs. 
Whether getting addicts into treatment 
or warning kids about the dangers of 
crack, the police, Pastore says, must find 
aew ways to fight the war on drugs. 

Well-informed officers are crucial to 
Pastore's approach. "Our officers need 
to know more than how to spell the 
word 'drugs,"" he seid. "They must 
bow where the drugs are, what kind of 
beluwior they induce, why people do 
ttaem.• 

By Pastore's admission, changing 
the New Haven police is a big task. The 
obstacles that confront him seem daunt-
ing: New Haven has no money, New 
England is economically depressed, and 
1990 will go down as the most crime-
ridden year in American history. Still, 
the chief asserts that his tenure of office 
has only just begun. "I've been gestat-
ing for the past nine months. Now 
I'm ready to be born." 

li1J 
Josh Plaut, a senior in Timothy Dwight 
College, is MllTUJging Editor of TNJ.



**Title: Saying No to Hate**
**Author: Jennifer Pitts**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
l 
Saying No to Hate 
Jennifer Pitts 
On October 30, vandals spray painted swastikas and Nazi 
slogans on the walls of Congregation Kol Havarim, a 
synagogue in Glastonbury. Halfway across Connecticut, 
members of Congregation Sinai in West Haven finally have 
reopened their synagogue after a fire destroyed the building 
two years ago. Police suspect that arsonists started the fire, 
which caused $750,000 in damage and destroyed classrooms, 
offices and a chapel, as well as irreplaceable books and 
records. "It was a very demoralizing experience," said 
Theodore Shapiro, president of the congregation. "Arson of 
your house would be bad. But it hurts even more when it is 
done against a synagogue, which is considered everybody's 
haven. We went through a period of shock." Although the 
police never found any suspects, the Anti-Defamation League 
of B'nai B'rith, a Jewish civil rights organization, suggests that 
religious hatred might have motivated the arsonists. 

The anti-Semitic graffiti and torched synagogue are just 
two of a rash of recent crimes motivated by religious, racial, 
and other prejudicial hatred in Connecticut. In a particularly 
horrid incident, two Hartford high school students brutally 
beat and killed a gay man, Richard Reihl, in 1988. The 
students, who gagged their victim with duct tape and 
bludgeoned him to death with a log, later confessed they 
killed Reihl because of his sexual orientation. Not all 
incidents, however, are so explicitly violent, or even 
uncontestably criminal-as the Yale campus learned this past 
September, when an anonymous group left racist letters in the 
mailboxes of ten African-American law students. 

Hoping to curb pr;judice-based violence, the 
Connecticut legislature enacted a hate crimes law on October 
1. Under the new law, if a prosecutor can prove that bias 
against a victim's race, religion, ethnicity or sexual orientation 
motivated a criminal act, judges can reclassify the crime and 
mandate a harsher sentence. Previously, the courts treated a 
crime such as desecration of religious property as vandalism, 
a misdemeanor punishable by less than a year in prison. 
Under the new law, bias-related vandalism will be a felony, 
and criminals can serve up to five years in jail. Similarly, 
courts will impose stiffer penalties for other hate crimes. "The 
law shows a sensitivity to the kind of non- physical damage 
that hate crimes cause," said Robert Leikind, Executive 
Director of the Anti-Defamation League. "It tells people this 
is a serious crime now." 

State Assemblyman Miles Rapoport (0-West Hartford) 
maintains that the stricter punishments will deter potential 
November 30, 1990 
offenders. "Most hate crimes are deliberately committed-not 
spontaneous outbursts, like crimes of passion," he said. 
"With deliberate crimes people are most likely to weigh out 
the threat of stiffer penalty." 

Still, offenders can avoid the harsher penalties if local 
investigators do not recognize the signs of hate crimes. "The 
success of the law hinges on two questions," said Leikind. 
"One, are the local police aware of the laws? Two, how well 
trained are they in determining whether a crime is motivated 
by bias?" New Haven's police force has an edge over many 
local police departments because some of its officers have 
undergone training about hate crimes, rapes, and domestic 
violence. "There are no state guidelines," said Sergeant Carol 
Marci, head of the New Haven Police Department's Sex and 
Hate Crimes Task Force. "Officers learn to ask the right 
questions-to investigate with a more sensitive eye." 

Community cooperation, however, must supplement 
this heightened sensitivity. Law enforcement efforts are often 
undermined by resistance from victims. "The average citizen 
hates cops," said a co-founder of the New Haven Anti-
Violence Project (A VP), who asked to remain unnamed. "I'm 
hoping that this new law will increase communication with 
the police." After two gay men were assaulted outside the 
Copa Cabana, a New Haven nightclub catering to a gay 
clientele, local residents founded A VP to work with police 
and get the word out on the hate crimes law. The A VP meets 
with Sergeant Marci each month to maintain communication 
between the police and the gay community. The group also 
posts fliers in New Haven's gay nightclubs, urging victims to 
report incidents to the police. "The vast majority of gay-
related hate crimes go unreported," said Robert Bray of the 
National Gay and Lesbian Task Force. "Gays are afraid to 
come out of the closet to the police." 

College students and university officials, on the other 
hand, have fewer reservations about reporting hate crimes to 
the police. One third of the crimes reported in Connecticut 
over the past two years occurred at colleges and universities. 
The New Haven area-including Yale and Southern 
Connecticut State University-sustained twelve hate crimes. 
The University of Connecticut recorded fifteen, at least twice 
as many as reported by any other community in the state. 

Law enforcement officials speculate that certain aspects of 
college life contribute to the higher rate of reported hate 
crimes. "The mixture of different types of people on a 
university campus is part of it. In normal society, 
The New Journal 19 


--- Page 20 ---

**Title: Hidden Obsessions**
**Author: Janina Palmisano**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
By November of her first year at Yale, Janet had lost control. 
''I purged after every meal," Janet, now a senior, recalls. 
"Breakfast I'd throw up. Lunch I'd throw up. Dinner I'd throw 
up. Afterwards, I'd think, 'Great, I got rid of that bloated 
feeling,' and then I'd be able to re-focus and do work, be 
productive. But a few hours later, I'd do it all over again." 
Janet is not alone. Each day, dozens of Yale students, suffering from 
an eating disorder knoum as bulimia, overeat and force themselves to 
vomit. Others, suffering from anorexia, rt!fuse to eat and exercise 
compulsively. Dr. Jane Rasmussen, Chief of Undergraduate 
Medicine at l!nive.rs.ity Health Services (UHS), estimates that 
between 15 and 25 percent of all students at Yale have problems with 
eating, exer_cise and body image. While some students arrive at Yale 
with a history of eating problems, others find that the sudden 
freedom and new responsibilities of the college environment push 
them into the cycle of an eating disorder. Here, three women tell 
their stories. 
"At home, my mother, who is very weight-conscious and 
so tiny-about 110 pounds-would always watch exactly 
what we ate at meals," Janet says. "My brother would just 
ignore her and eat what he wanted, and he was fine. But I 
would remember what she said~ and feel like she was trying to 
deprive me of something that I should be able to have. Even 
when she wasn't there, I'd feel guilty that I wasn't good like 
her. When I came to Yale, and she wasn't watching me closely 
anymore, I just kept eating and eating. I knew that I was 
being bad, and that I would gain weight unless I got it under 
control, and that's when I started throwing up. I remember 
hearing about bulimia in high school, and thinking 'How 
could anyone do anything so gross?' But when I got here, I 
started to think 'What a cool idea, what a great way to eat all 
you want, and not gain weight.' 
''There was always so much in the dining hall, so much 
to eat," Janet says. "I didn't even enjoy or want most of it. 
Compared to food at home, it was so greasy and fatty. I'd be 
starving and would put two bites of food into my mouth and 
feel full, but I'd keep eating and eating and after about thirty 
minutes I'd say to myself, 'Why are you doing this? You were 
full half an hour ago.' But I still couldn't stop. I never did. I'd 
eat until I was sick, and then I'd have to throw up to feel 
better. 
''When I met my boyfriend, I knew inside that he would 
be my means of getting help. I knew he would understand, 
and so I didn't try to hide my throwing up from him. And he 
would get so upset, but not like my brother did; my brother 
would see me throwing up at home and would say, 'You are 


so gross' and would leave me alone. But my boyfriend would 
look like he was about to cry. He was really sad. With him, it 
was different than with my friends. They'd say, 'Oh, that's 
really bad, don't do it.' But with my boyfriend, I could see 
that I was really affecting him, that I was hurting him. It was 
deeper. Even though I still am fat, I want to stop. 
"You don't see me without clothes," says Janet, leaning 
her thin arms on the table. "I'm disgusting. My stomach is 
just huge, and my arms are getting bigger. The other 
morning, I woke up and saw how big my legs were, and it 
made me sick. I tell my boyfriend all the time, 'Look at this 
stomach! Doesn't this make you sick?' He tells me that I'm 
nice and soft. But I don't want to be nice and soft; I want to be 
tough and mean and muscular." 


Like Janet, Andrea felt overwhelmed by food. At every meal in the 
dining hall, she obsessively watched her peers' eating habits, 
comparing her eating behavior with theirs. What no one saw, 
however, was what happened to Andrea at night, when she was 
alone. After her roommates set off for the libraries, Andrea would 
mull over what she did not allow herself to eat during the day's 
meals. As she grew angrier and angrier over how she had deprived 
herself, anxiety would build and soon Andrea found herself gorging 
on junk food. By the end of her sophomore year, Andrea would binge 
up to three times a day. She managed to attend most classes, but 
completed little, if any, reading; she was passing through Yale on a 
bare minimum of work. She devoted most of her energy to hiding her 
binges from her roommates. 
'1 was always very careful with what I ate in my dining 
hall," Andrea, a junior and recovering bulimic, says. "I felt 
that people were watd\ing what I put on my tray as carefully 
as I watched what they put on theirs. 
My roommates last 
year were always amazed at how I could remember exactly 
what they had had for lunch or dinner the day before, right 
down to what they left on their plates. They thought it was 
very funny and cute, my schtik. They had no idea that they 
were setting boundaries for me. In the dining hall, I'd never 
take or eat more than the person I was eating with. They were 
my control, like in an experiment." She shakes her head and 
smiles. "When my roommate would go and get some ice 
cream or pie, I'd think, 'Now I can have some, too. And if 
anyone calls me a pig for eating it, I can just say that she's 
eating it, too, so leave me alone!' 
"When I'd binge, I was always in a complete panic. I'd 
worry about how horrible I'd look that summer in a bathing 
SUit. I'd think about how my mother would say that I'd gained


weight. I'd panic that I would bump 
into someone I knew while carrying a 
pizza or bags of cookies. 'What will I 
say if I see someone?' I'd think, and 
make up these ridiculous lies about a 
friend in another college who was sick 
and had missed dinner, or say that I 
was having people over. I'd spend so 
much energy plotting these lies, just like 
in the dining hall, where I'd be ready.to 
point the finger at my room mate if 
anyone were to question the ice cream 
on my tray. 
"I thought that everything was just 
fine, and that no one had any idea," 
Andrea says, looking away. "But one of 
my roommates had been clued in for a 
while, and she watched me. She 
became suspicious that something was 
strange after she noticed that I was 
never in the room at night, even when I 
claimed to be and was actually out on a 
binge, and that I always disappeared 
after meals. She purposely came home 
early one night and heard me throwing 
up in the shower. 
When she 
approached me I tried to be laid back 
about it, and lied that I'd felt sick all 
day. But the next night she caught me 
throwing up again, and this time there 
were bags and wrappers all over the 
room, so I didn't even bother denying it. 
She looked at me like I was some kind 
of a monster, and I remember thinking, 
'Oh, just give me a break. What are you 
looking at?' 
"But when I stood up and went to 
the sink to rinse my mouth, I saw 
myself in the mirror and was shocked. 
My eyes were bloodshot and swollen 
and tearing, my whole face was red, 
there was mucus falling from my mouth 
and my hand. All I could think was 
that I looked like someone had been 
beating me. I looked like one of those 
women from the domestic violence 
commercials. And when I got back to 
our room, my roommate was already on 
the phone with my mother." 


While Janet and Andrea could not restrain 
their eating habits, Melissa maintained too 
much control. She could go for days eating 
next to nothing and exercised to the point of 
exhaustion. 
Her weight plummeted 
dangerously low, and still she wouldn't eat. 
Not until she could barely function did 
Melissa realize she might have an eating 
disorder. In the spring of her first year at 
Yale, Melissa sought professional help. 
"I was literally never in the dining 
halls. I would find any excuse possible 
not to be there," Melissa remembers. 
"Lunch with a professor, working late, 
not feeling well. I'd say anything to my 
roommates, and then spend the time 
running or doing -aerobics. I wouldn't 
even get close to the dining hall if I · 
could help it. I could live on almost 
nothing. An apple, a salad, that's all I 
would let myself eat for days. 
I 
remember standing up and feeling so 
light-headed and weak, and thinking, 
'Good, I'm losing weight. This is really 
working.' That was when I was about 
90 pounds, and I'm 5'7". 
"No matter how tired or shaky I 
felt physically, with every missed meal 
and every mile run, I would almost get 
a high. I thought I was so much better 
than every person walking into that 
dining hall. Everyone else was so 
undisciplined, in my opinion, and I was 
strong. 
"When I hit 90 pounds, though, I 
could barely funotion. Even walking 
was extremely difficult. That's when I 
acknowleged that all of this was not as 
much fun or as innocent as when I was 
little and would purposely d rive my 
mother crazy by·refusing to eat. This 
had definitely gotten beyond that. And 



**Title: Eating Disorders at Yale**
**Author: Janina Palmisano**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
after alm9st two years of therapy, I'm 
still not completely okay." 


Many anorexics and bulimics enroll in 
therapy programs or begin seeing private 
psychiatrists, although doctors stress that 
psychiatry is not the only prescription for 
health. "There are a million different ways 
to achieve salvation, and psychiatrists are 
not necessarily the only way," says UHS's 
Dr. Rasmussen. The problem, however, 
extends beyond the mental and emotional 
realm. Getting help for a student with an 
eating disorder can become a matter of life 
and death. Between five and fifteen percent 
of all anorexics die as a result of the 
disorder, and bulimics suffer from 
complications such as ruptured stomachs. 
At Yale, UHS can help only when a 
victim asks for it. "The bottom line is that if 
someone wants our help, they have to get 
here first," says Dr. Rasmussen. "There are 
some individuals out there that none of us 
are helping, because they don't get here. 
They either have to be willing to be helped 
or be in bad enough shape for me to declare 
them incompetent to care for themselves, 
and place them in a hospital." 

For the 
thousands of people suffering from eating 
disorders nationwide, the first step toward 
recovery is identifying the problem. 
"My weight goes between 110 and 
111 pounds," Janet says, though she 
does not look more than 100 pounds. 
She now weighs the same as her 
mother, whose extreme thinness she 
envies. 

Janet cups her face in her hands 
and slowly shakes her head. "It doesn't 
matter what the scale says," s he 
whispers. 

1S11 
Janina Palmisano is a senior in Timothy 
Dwight College. 
Janet, Melissa, and Andrea are pseudonyms. 
November 30, 1990 


**Title: Changsha Christmas**
**Author: Tony Reese**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

Christmas comes much too close for 
comfort to the end of the Yale term. For 
four years, papers and exams made me 
resent Christmas for interfering with my 
academic life, and I resented Yale for 
making me resent Christmas. It would 
have taken a visit from Scrooge's ghosts 
to keep the reality of Christinas Present 
from turning me into a Grinch. 

I enjoyed my first post-Yale 
Christmas, teaching in China for the 
Yale-China Association, little more than 
the previous four. I had enough time to 
celebrate but no one to celebrate with. 
As the only American at my school, I 
found myself culturally alone in a land 
of a billion people. I threw a Christmas 
party for my students, but the culture 
shock of my first four months had kept 
us from getting to know each other well 
enough to celebrate with much 
enthusiasm. 

By the next year, I could have 
hoped for a more pleasant Christmas. 
Having already spent one holiday in 
China, I knew what to expect. And 
I did not spend the 
last hour of class on 
December 23 talking 
about restrictive and 
non-restrictive 
clauses, but rather 
read aloud A Charlie 
Brown Christmas and 
The Grinch Who Stole 
Christmas. 

having transferred to another school, I 
worked with other Yale-China teachers 
and felt more at home. 

In fact, we had recently celebrated 
Thanksgiving quite successfully, which 
boded well for a festive Christmas. The 
dinner, though two days late since 
Thanksgiving is not a Chinese school 
holiday, had been as authentic as we 
could manage. Chicken and duck 
substituted for unavailable turkey, but 
we had everything else: dressing, yarns 
with marshmallows, mashed potatoes, 
wild rice, noodles, homemade rolls, and 
two pumpkin pies, one courtesy of 
ingenuity and a fresh local pumpkin 
and the other thanks to a mother's 
willingness to spend $25 to airmail $1.50 
worth of canned pumpkin and 
condensed milk to China. 

Still, the approach of Christmas 
worried me. Not only had I celebrated 
21 of the previous 22 holidays with 
parents and grandparents, but also 

The New Journal 27 



**Title: An Unexpected Christmas**
**Author: Tony Reese**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
China seemed rather inhospitable to 
Christmas. The seasonal trappings that 
had made their way there came without 
any familiar meaning or associations: in 
China, "Jingle Bells" is as likely to pl~y 
over the public address system in an 
unbearably hot train car in mid-July as 
in a department store in December.


My Yale-China colleagues seemed 
to share my apprehensions. 
A 
celebration together would have been 
too crowded with each of our personal 
ghosts of Christmas Past. And with six 
more months to live together in 
extremely close quar ters ("in one 
another;s soup," as one of my co-
workers put it) and to rely on one 
another for support, we didn't want to 
risk an unhappy Christmas together.


We even declined an invitation for 
Christm as dinner with Dr . i..iu, a 
wonderful man of seventy-something 
who had attended Yale-China schools 
since high school, and who, every few 
weeks, cooked us the best Chinese food 
we'd ever eaten.


The absence of the h oliday 
commercialism we had all railed against 
in the U.S aggravated our damp ened 
enthusiasm. Without it, getting into the 
holiday spirit was even harder than it 
had been at Yale. No TV specials. No 
reminders of how few shopping days 
were left. It couldn't really be the 
season to be jolly.


But 
our 
calendars 
read 
"December," 
and 
we 
teacher-
ambassadors of American culture felt 
obligated to display at least some 
Christmas cheer and trimmings for our 
students' sake. This was, after all, the 
first chance for most of them to see how 
Americans celebrated this holiday they 
had heard so much about, the closest 
thing we seemed to have to their Lunar 
New Year.


So we hung some leftover 
decorations-a printed wreath, an 
advent calendar, last year's Christmas 
cards, and so on-in our office. We 
found a nursery, bought a fir tree, and 
took it home-by bike, of course. We 
had no ornaments and put little 
creativity into improvising, but the tree 
still made the holiday seem more real. 
And it certainly intrigued our students.


None of us realized at first just how 
intrigued they were. I had spent a lot of 
time that term with a class of 25 doctors 
and research scientists w h o were 
improving their English before going 
abroad to study with the World Health 
Organization. Friendly and eager to 
learn, they worked well together, and I 
enjoyed being with them.


And they, it turned out, enjoyed 
the idea of Christmas. Most of them, 
aged 25 to 45, were spending the 
semester away from their families and 
homes just as we were. Perhaps they 
were lonely and bored, maybe just 
curious. Perhaps they realized that as 
English students they 
had an 
unimpeachably legitimate excuse to _ 
have a ball celebrating a Western 
holiday-an otherwise politically 
questionable act. Whatever the reason, 
they were determined to celebrate their 
first Noel in style.


Foregoing the expense of a tree, 
they gathered construction paper, 
aluminum foil, streamers, and cotton 
balls, and decorated an entire classroom 
wall with a Christmas scene, complete 
with snowman and tree. They insisted 
on learning Christmas 5ongs, so the best 
singer among us repeated many rounds 
of "Deck the Halls" and other favorites.


As the day approached, the 
students' enthusiasm grew like that of 
children, even without the promise of 
Santa Claus or presents. Some planned 
to attend services at one of Changsha's 
two Christian churches, but I declined 
the invitation to accompany them. A 
Yale-China teacher who had gone the 
year before found so many curious 
observers that the Chinese Christians 
could barely even hear the ceremony-
Never having been to a church in the 
U.S. on Christmas, I wouldn't have felt 
right joining the curious in China, 
though I was indeed curious to see how 
the few Chinese who celebrated the 
holiday did so.


Instead, I joined my students in 
well-remembered American holiday 
rituals transformed by Chinese culture_ 
I did not spend the last hour of class on 
December 23 standing at the board 
talking about restrictive and non-
restrictive clauses, but rather sat 
perched on the front of my desk reading 
A Charlie Brown Christmas and The 
Grinch Who Stole Christmas aloud to a 
roomful of doctors. Ordinarily too 
afraid of losing face to show any 
interest in a children's book, they 
crowded around eager to understand 
the English and, even more importantly, 
to see the pictures. By the end of The 
Grinch, it was beginning to feel a little 
like Christmas.


The familiar and the bizarre 
converged again when we went 
caroling on Christmas Eve. The accents 
were certainly different than when I 
went caroling in sixth grade, and most 
of the singers had some trouble 
remembering the words (especially 
beyond the fifth day of Christmas), but 
the songs were the same, as was the 
whole idea of sharing the holiday with 
our neighbors.


Our neighbors, of course, had no 
idea why this odd group of Chinese and 
Americans was wandering around 
campus in the cold of night singing off-
key in a foreign tongue. But many 
appreciated it. A chemistry teacher 
who had often helped the Yale-China 
teachers stood with her ailing husband 
at their fourth floor window smiling 
and listening. For the undergraduates, 
we broke the monotony of another 
evening studying in cold, unheated 
lecture halls. The library wasn't open in 
the evening, and their dorm rooms 
could not comfortably hold all eight 
residents studying at the same time_ 
They packed the balconies at the front 
of the main classroom building to watch 
and some even deduced that our 
performance had something to do with 
Christinas_


On December 25 the incongruity of 
Christmas in China hit with full force_ 
Although we officially had the day off, I 
taught four hours of make-up classes so 
my students could take New Year's Day 
off. (To the university's administrators, 
'holiday' meant moving work hours to 
another time, not canceling them 
entirely.) Riding across campus to class, 
I was struck as I had been a year before 
by the utterly disconcerting fact that 
this was, for everyone around me, a 
perfectly ordinary day. The absence of 
the Christmas morning hush that quiets 
entire streets, entire neighborhoods and 
entire cities made the noise of everyone 
going about their daily routines seem 
much louder than usual_


We teachers did spend time with 
our own ghosts that day, but we also 
celebrated together. Having turned 
down Dr. Liu's dinner invitation, we 
made spaghetti with pesto_ Not exactly 
a traditional Christmas meal, but distant 
enough from our daily Chinese fare to 
seem celebratory.


We celebrated with our students, 
too. My students had a party, and I 
spent the evening trying to learn to two-
step under the tutelage of a patient 
young pharmacologist from Kunming_ 
I had no more success learning the steps 
than my students on the sidelines had 
concealing their laughter a t my 
awkwardness on the dance floor.


Eventually the party, and our 
Christmas, ended. But at least it had 
happened. Being in China hadn't kept 
Christmas from coming. It came. 
Somehow or other, it came just the 
same.


I may neve;,celebrate an odder 
Christmas, and I cannot recall whether. 
or not I enjoyed it at the time. (I know I 
have repressed the darker side: cold, 
grime, depression, no hot water) But 1 
expect that this year, when I look at my 
tree decorated with Chinese baubles 
and trinkets, the only ghosts of 
Christmas Past whom I expect will 
come to call are my students, thrilled at 
celebrating their first Christmas, and 
my colleagues and I, unexpected ly 
getting caught up in their excitement. 
And I hope that at some point on 
December 25 at least a few doctors in 
Changsha and Chengdu and Wuhan 
realize that it's Christmas again. 
Tony Reese (BR '86) was Managing Editor 
and Publisher of TN] before teaching in 
China from 1986 to 1988. He now works 
for The Yale-China Association in New 
Haven.

**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
i 
x _
x 
x- x ~ x ~ x ~ x ~ x ~ x ~ x - x - x _ x i 
X 
1111 
II II .. .·. 
II II :·: 
II II 
:·: 
II II .. . . . 
II II . . 
.·. 
II II . . . . . 
. ·. 
... 
Beautiful 
Greenhouse 
Dining Room ... 
Delicious Gourmet 
Chinese Food! 
Savor our scrumptious and 
generous portions of the finest 
Szechuan, and Cantonese cuisine. 
We're open for Lunch & Dinner 7 days a week . 
Takeout orders available and all major 
credit cards are honored . 
0 A Iii 
HOME VILLAGE 
GOURMET CHINESE RESTAURANT 
2380 Dixwell Avenue, Hamden 
At the Caldor Shopping Plaza 
Call 288-54 79 or 288-5328 
. .. 
II II .. 
II II .. .· . 
II II ·.· . . 



Yale Quick Copy Center 
Park 
..._ 
AltA 
1.9.York _ 
.. 
51 
IUD 
mgb 
j 
OMO....U 
I 
College 
Copies .. · .. · .• 
only 3Ya¢~ . 
149 York Street 
432-COPY 
(432-2679) 
8 to 5 
Monday-Friday 
Res11mes 
Tabletents 
Posters 
Course material 
Typesetting from 
Macintosh disks 
8e whatnot 
-Still the lowest 
prices in Elm City 
•per copy for more than ten copies of the same origlnal; 
the price 1s 4 oents each for one to ten copies. 
•

