Publication date: JAN 2022
Volume: 54
Issue number: 3


**MASTHEAD:**
- **Publisher:**  (Not listed in provided text)
- **Editor:** (Not listed in provided text)
- **Other positions:** (Not listed in provided text)


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
(Not listed in provided text)


**ARTICLE CONTENT:**
(No articles provided in this page)



**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 2**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 2
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Editors-In-Chief
Alexandra Galloway
Zachary Groz
Executive Editor
Jack Delaney
Managing Editor
Eli Mennerick
Associate Editors
Nicole Dirks 
Jesse Goodman  
Caroleine James 
Noa Rosinplotz 
Dereen Shirnekhi 
Will Sutherland 
JD Wright 
Katherine Yao
Senior Editors
Beasie Goddu
Madison Hahamy
The New Journal is published five times during the academic year by The New Journal at Yale, Inc., PO. Box 3311 Yale Station, New Haven, CT 06515. All contents 
Copyright 2021 by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Reproduction either in whole or in part without written permission of the publisher and edi-
tors-in-chief is prohibited. The New Journal is a student-run publication at Yale University. While this magazine is published by Yale College students, Yale University 
is not responsible for its contents. The Yale University name and trademark is owned and used by permission of the University. Two thousand five hundred copies of 
each issue are distributed free to members of the Yale and New Haven communities. The New Journal is printed by Turley Publications, Palmer, MA; bookkeeping 
and billing services are provided by Colman Bookkeeping of New Haven. The New Journal encourages letters to the editor and comments on Yale and New Haven 
issues. Write to thenewjournal©gmail.com. All letters for publication must include address and signature. We reserve the right to edit all letters for publication. 


Copy Editors
Meg Buzbee
Jabez Choi
Anna Fleming 
Lucy Gilchrist
Ella Goldblum
Ella Pearlman-Chang 
Kaylee Walsh
Creative Director
Annli Nakayama
Design Editors
Savannah Crichton
Avery Mitchell
Ally Soong
Photography Editor
Lukas Flippo
Business Manager
Sherry Chen
Members and Directors
Emily Bazelon, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric 
Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya 
Swaby
Advisors
Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Lincoln Caplan, 
Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth 
Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel 
Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren 
Rawbin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven 
Weisman, Daniel Yergin 
Friends
Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, 
Tessa Berenson, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, 
Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, 
Leslie Dach, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Toby Galloway, 
Dana Goodyear, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Eli Kintisch, Bob 
Lamm, Kathrin Lassila, James Liberman, Sharon Lowe, Jim Lowe, 
Alka Mansukhani, Steven Mennerick, Beatrice Mitchell, Benjamin 
Mueller, Sarah Nutman, Sophia Nguyen, Amelia Nierenberg, 
Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Laura Pappano, Dennis Pierce, 
Jennifer Pitts, Jeffrey Pollock, Julia Preston, Adriane Quinlan, R. 
Anthony Reese, Raymond Rund, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, 
Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Marilynn Sager, Robert 
Scaramuccia, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline 
Smith, Gabriel Snyder, Elizabeth Steig, Fred Strebeigh, Jeff Strong, 
Aliyya Swaby, Jacob Sweet, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne 
and David Sydney, Daniel Waterman, Kristian and Margarita 
Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen



**Title: LOST AND UNFOUND**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 3**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yale lost students’ stuff. They want it back.


**Title: IDEAL GLASS**

Jayne Crowley, a stained-glass artist in 
Branford, restores the last church windows 
of her fifty-year career.


**Title: A MONUMENTAL PROBLEM**

In June 2020, amid nationwide protests for 
racial justice, New Haven tore down the 
statue of Christopher Columbus in Wooster 
Square. Now, an obscure group is suing to 
bring it back.


**Title: WHERE HAVE ALL THE ALT-WEEKLIES 
GONE?**

The story of New Haven's forty-year 
resistance to corporate media.


**Title: GOING BACK HOME FOR THE 
FIRST TIME**
**Author: Alexandra Galloway**
**Page number(s): 4**

(No poem text provided)


**Title: STANDARDS**
**Author: Abbey Kim**
**Page number(s): 8**

(No article text provided)


**Title: points of departure**
**Author: Will Sutherland**
**Page number(s): 19**



**Title: CLASSICS IN THE CROSSHAIRS**
**Author: Nimran Shergill**
**Page number(s): 20**



**Title: HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS?**
**Author: Eli Mennerick**
**Page number(s): 26**



**Title: A THANK YOU NOTE**
**Author: Nicole Dirks**
**Page number(s): 34**



**Title: A MORNING EGG IN THE 
   TRUMBULL DINING HALL**
**Author: Yonatan Greenberg**




**Title: CLASSICS IN THE CROSSHAIRS**
**Author: Abbey Kim**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
looking down on other scholars like gender theorists. 

And outside of academic discourse, Classics has been 
embraced by some extremists and white supremacists 
as a kind of symbol for the West. 

By the time everyone arrived, thirteen undergrad­
uates, graduate students, and professors occupied the 
conference room, sitting in chairs against the wall, 
around the big oak table, or broadcasted on the Zoom 
call displayed on the TV. The group was small, but 
they filled the room and there were few open chairs 
left as the meeting began. Many of the older students 
sat against the wall by the door, while the discussion 
leader, two attending co-founders, and Professor 
Christina Kraus sat at the table. Though the group 
was racially diverse, the discussion leader and the 
club’s three founders were white. Was it possible for 
a group like this to succeed in its goal of countering 
racism in the field?

The group quickly came together in conversation, 
and I instantly felt out of my depth. There were no 
other observers, perhaps in part because all of the 
group’s advertising is through internal departmental 
email lists—whether it's their undergraduate panlist 
or the departmental Pinax list—and it rarely sees any 
visitors outside of the Classics department. A typical 
meeting has anywhere from five to thirty people, all of 
whom are part of the department. Though MacDon­
ald noted that they’d reached out to other department 
heads to scout interest in an interdisciplinary collab­
oration, she said they hadn’t received any responses. 

I
t’s rare to find something nowadays without any 
digital footprint, but the Yale Classics Anti-Rac­
ism Reading Group is about as close as it gets. A 
quick search for the group yielded three links: one to 
the Yale Classics Summer 2021 newsletter, and two 
to a departmental calendar listing the meeting I was 
about to attend. With this painfully limited knowl­
edge under my belt, I walked into the room in Phelps 
Hall unsure of what I would find. 

The handful of students in the room were just as 
shocked to see me as I was to see them. Nevertheless, 
after the initial surprise, I was greeted warmly by two 
of the group's founders, Elizabeth Raab ’23 and Grace 
MacDonald ’23. I took a seat at the table in the center 
of the small room and watched as more people slowly 
trickled in. 

“I was so surprised when you came,” MacDonald 
later admitted. “Classics sometimes can be so insu­
lated.”

Despite its goal of inclusivity and anti-racism, the 
group is not immune to the isolation of the Clas­
sics department. Historically, that isolation has been 
strongly tied to the field’s conservatism, and often its 
racism. The discipline has relied on its rigidity, cham­
pioning the same texts, philosophies, and scholars for 
centuries. The problem has carried over into the pres­
ent day. As many in the group pointed out during 
their discussion, contemporary dialogue in the field 
still focuses conversation around “true Classicists”—
who are overwhelmingly white and male—while 


The discussion, led by Grace Blaxill ‘23, focused on 
Simon Goldhill’s Review of Patrick J. Finglass’ Intro­
duction to Sophocles, in which Goldhill critiques 
Finglass for perpetuating a conservative framing of 
the Classics that omits gender, politics, and cultural 
commentary. Much of the discussion focused on the 
idea that these academic introductions are not neutral; 
scholars push their own views of the texts by exclud­
ing certain parts of texts in their analyses or piecing 
together fragments to suggest a different key take­
away. 

Late in the semester, by the time I visited them, 
the group had already exhausted the reading list of 
eight pieces selected by former Yale Professor Emily 
Greenwood, and the discussion I sat in on was not 
explicitly related to antiracism. These readings from 
earlier in the year included articles like “Lessons 
Learned: The Role of Classics in Black Colleges and 
Universities” and “Turning the Tables on Dominance 
and Diversity in Classics.” Greenwood, who was Yale 
Classics’ only Black professor, now teaches at Princ­
eton, leaving the Yale Classics Department faculty of 
sixteen without any Black members. 

The reading group seemed to be at a critical moment 
of negotiating their identity, poised to explore a more 
intersectional analysis of Classics within gendered, 
political, and broader cultural lenses. After exhaust­
ing the anti-racist reading list, it was now up to the 
group’s leaders to decide where to direct the discus­
sions. Blaxill’s conversation delved into sexism and 
elitism in Classics, while the December meeting dis­
cussed ableism in Classics. The group is now broad­
ening its scope from anti-racism to wider discussions 
of discrimination in the field. 

Group members emphasized that though texts stay 
the same, field commentary should be dynamic. The 
push for more contemporary framing and analysis of 
texts reveals the battle to begin undoing the racist 
underpinnings of Classics, which traces back to the 
group’s inception in the spring of 2020. Jake Watson 
’22 says the idea for the group came to him in his 
junior year, when he noticed that one of the required 
textbooks on The Odyssey for his and Raab’s class on 
Homer used the n-word without any scholarly justi­
fication. He explained that the carelessness of its use 
“really jarringly put it in our face how entwined Clas­
sics is with racist histories.”

After a conversation with his professor and a class 
discussion of racism in the field, Watson began work­
ing with the professor, Raab, and another interested 
classmate to try to get the publisher to remove the 
word from the book. Eventually, after lengthy nego­
tiations, the publishing company promised to add a 
note in the front of the text warning readers of the 
slur. As Watson and Raab were negotiating with the 
publisher, a second impetus for the group emerged. 
George Floyd’s murder, and the national conversation 
on racism that followed, pushed the students to take 
further action. Raab, Watson, and MacDonald formed 
the anti-racist reading group aiming to educate them­
selves, to seek out challenging conversations, and 
eventually to take action. One of its main goals now 
is reassessing Yale’s Classics class structure and con­
tent. Specific demands, or action items beyond that, 
are still unclear.

Though group members said the Classics Depart­
ment has been supportive of their mission since the 
club’s inception, Watson hinted at a slight tension 
between faculty and student priorities. He noted that 
when debating whether or not to keep The Odyssey 
commentary that used the n-word on the syllabus, 
some faculty argued it was the best book available 
due to a lower price and more comprehensive analysis 
than other textbooks.  Faculty wondered whether it 
would be more exclusive for students to have to buy 
“a really expensive textbook that is not as good for 
pedagogy and doesn't cover as much of The Odys­
sey,” Watson said. “So I think there was some of that 
power dynamic there and generational difference. 
Inertia is a really strong force.”


“The reading group seemed to be at a critical moment 
intersectional analysis of Classics within gendered, polit­
ical, and broader cultural lenses.”



---

**Title: Classics in the Crosshairs (Continued)**
**Page number(s): 6**

Though the professor now teaching the Homer 
class has removed the textbook with the n-word from 
the syllabus, Watson notes that “that wasn't really a 
departmental choice…. that was just what the instruc­
tor decided.” The lack of departmental accord over 
this change in curriculum reveals a deeper slowness to 
change in the field. 

In the Phelps Hall meeting, Professor Kraus largely 
listened. She spoke a few times, framing her contribu­
tions with her extensive time in the field and speaking 
about the lack of proper credit given to female schol­
ars. Group leaders said that more professors attended 
meetings during the pandemic, when they were not 
as busy, and now usually one or two come to each 
meeting.

Despite the sometimes slow pace of progress, group 
members I talked to were quick to emphasize that 
their goals aren’t in conflict with those of the depart­
ment, and that they haven’t faced resistance beyond 
differences in priorities. In fact, the two groups often 
work together. The Classics’ Departmental Equity, 
Justice, and Inclusion Committee formed at about 
the same time as the reading group, and the two are 
becoming more interconnected. Both Raab and read­
ing group co-leader Ziming Liu serve as members on 
the Committee, which has two faculty, graduate, and 
undergraduate appointments apiece.

This overlap is understandable considering the size 
of the department. Each year, faculty in the depart­
ment outnumber the graduating seniors by a ratio of 
roughly two to one. Raab recalled attending a special 
graduation ceremony for Classics majors that featured 
seven seniors. That year was not an anomaly—the 
major’s average graduating senior class size is only 
nine students.

It may be no surprise, then, that the students start­
ing the push for change look like those who have his­
torically been in the department. The group leaders 
were not oblivious to the optics of their operation. 
Watson explained that the founders’ whiteness, lack 
of knowledge about anti-racism in the field, and the 
surrounding whiteness of the Yale Classics depart­
ment made starting the group a delicate process. “We 
just try the best we can,” Watson said.

All of the group leaders emphasized that they do 
not claim to be experts on anti-racism. The commu­
nal learning of the group was something that made it 
special to them. This transparent framing of the group 
as an open place to learn helped counter some of the 
elitist and exclusionary history of Classics. Instead of 
the group leaders assuming the role of all-knowing 
instructors, they learned alongside those in discus­
sions. 

“Our goal is to put everyone on sort of an equal 
playing field—discussion—which often can be hard in 
an academic setting where there are professors, grad­
uate students, there are all of these hierarchies,” Raab 
explained. “But in other ways it's hard, right? Because 
we want to be as responsible as possible in including 
the voices that should be included, whether that be 
in our readings, our participants, the people who we 
invite in to lead discussions.”

Though leaders expressed their belief that those 
most interested in reforming Classics would be those 
in Classics themselves, they’re beginning to widen 
their lens. MacDonald and Raab explained, for exam­
ple, that they’re working on a collaboration with the 
Yale Prison Education Initiative next semester in an 
attempt to counter the inaccessibility and elitist cul­
ture of Classics. 

Despite being small, the group fights complete 
insulation. Members have participated in numerous 
multi-college events, including Eos Reads for Black 
Lives, a workshop where participants read a selec­
tion of texts from the African diaspora and considered 
their current implications. Raab and MacDonald also 
mentioned their “Accountability Groups,” in which 
professors and students from colleges nationwide 
meet and discuss anti-racist literature.

For now, the group is largely focused on curricu­
lum-based work. Friday’s meeting ended with a list 
“The push for more contem­
porary framing and analysis 
of texts reveals the battle 
to begin undoing the racist 
underpinnings of Classics, 
which traces back to the 
group’s inception in the 
spring of 2020.”



**Title:  How the Classics Department is Rethinking its Curriculum**
**Author: Abbey Kim**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
of action items about how to approach a flawed but 
helpful text like Finglass’s. Group members suggested 
adding an annotated bibliography that highlighted 
biases in the text, disclaiming sources, and disclosing 
texts as good for some things and not for others. One 
member referenced Professor Greenwood’s strategy 
of having students come to class with one thing they 
thought the text failed to accomplish or misstated.   
“We want to talk a lot about how the classes in the 
department are structured,” MacDonald explained. 
“To discuss how syllabi are created, what the goals of 
syllabi should be, are faculty doing that, and how can 
we make that better? We've talked a lot about how we 
can make Classics more accessible.”

The group is already seeing movement on this 
front. Graduate student Christopher Londa designed 
his course “Identity, Power, and Practice in Classical 
Studies” with the help of a syllabus workshop by the 
reading group. According to its syllabus, the course 
aims to tackle the “systems of power and legacies of 
oppression” often brushed aside in the study of Clas­
sics. 

After the meeting ended, I took the elevator down 
to leave Phelps Hall. It was only as I left that I noticed 
the bright blue posters hanging in the elevator and 
entryway, their bold white font advertising the group. 
I was tempted to grab one to bring with me, as a kind 
of memento, but I decided to leave it be. I had faith 
that this would not be the last time I saw the group’s 
name. 
Abbey Kim is a first-year in Branford College.


**Title: A Thank You Note**
**Author: Laura Glesby**

ASIDE
A  THANK  YOU NOTE
BY LAURA GLESBY
Keith was sitting on his Adeline Street porch when 
Annie and I approached him one sunny Saturday in 
October of 2017. His nephew, who seemed about 
five, introduced himself to us in one breath as Jaco­
by-Flash-Batman-Superman. The little boy zoomed 
around his front yard, pretending to be a medley of 
the heroes in his self-assigned name. Flimsy leaves 
crinkling beneath us, we asked Keith about a house 
at the end of the block: a sleek, angular duplex that 
seemed out of place in a neighborhood of older, 
vinyl-sided homes. Annie, the New Journal editor 
accompanying me on this reporting adventure, 
wore statement earrings and spoke fluent Span­
ish and rapped the first knock on each front door 
we approached. I was a soft-spoken first year, shy 
about asking strangers personal questions and fairly 
convinced that our escapade would lead to a fateful 
encounter with a serial killer. Our probable untimely 
deaths aside, I was certain that this would be both 
my first and last reported story. Journalism, after all, 
wasn’t for the gentle. Later that night, I wrote up a 
scene on my bottom-bunk dorm bed and realized 
all I had noticed that afternoon in my awkward qui­
etness. I revisited the stream of suggestions that the 
New Journal editors had left on my draft and finally 
saw their unwritten message: You can learn how to 
do this. Poring through my notes, I found my last 
line: with time, Keith had posited, the new building 
sticking out from all the others could start to seem 
like a “regular old house.”
JANUARY 2022
 7


**Title: International students build a community during pandemic-era breaks.**
**Author: Will Sutherland**
**Page number(s): 8, 9**

 8
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
ost Yale students have probably never seen 
New Haven on Christmas Day, or New 
Year’s Eve, or the first few days of Janu­
ary when everything is dead quiet on Elm 
Street and only a few footprints dot the snow on Cross 
Campus. A lot of international students have. There 
is a particular point at the beginning of most school 
breaks when I notice the exodus. The kids with suit­
cases wait on street corners, in front of their dorms, 
by shuttle stops, outside Phelps Gate. They have their 
phones in their hands, making sure their ride will be 
on time to scoop them up. But then, a few hours later, 
the kids with suitcases are gone, and I begin to take 
stock of the stragglers left wandering down Broad­
way at 4 p.m. “Oh, I recognise them from the inter­
national students’ orientation,” I think to myself.

It has always been hard for international students 
to go home during shorter vacations, like Fall Break 
or Thanksgiving Break—a few days don't cut it for 
a trip to Australia or Hong Kong or Ghana. There’s 
no Metro-North to China, and your parents can’t 
pick you up and drive you back to Kenya while you 
sleep in the backseat. Still, longer breaks, over winter 
and summer, usually allow international students the 
time to visit home and see their families. But, since 
March 10, 2020, when President Salovey sent out 
his pandemic-induced email instructing all students 
to remain home or return home as soon as possible, 
international students have been navigating govern­
ment quarantines, border closures, flight cancella­
tions, and heightened travel risks. For many of us, this 
has meant being stuck in the U.S., usually in New 
Haven, for the longest we ever have been. 
Alara Degirmenci ’23, who is from Istanbul, stayed 
in New Haven for over eighteen months without see­
ing her family over the pandemic. Ha Uyen Nguyen 
’23 still hasn’t been back to Vietnam since winter break 
during her first year, over three years ago. Teigist 
‘Tiggy’ Taye ’22, my roommate, was stuck in New 
Haven for over a year and a half before she returned 
to Kenya this past summer. Mimi Kostoska ’21 spent a 
year in her Dwight Street apartment before she could 
fly home to Macedonia. I arrived back in New Haven 
to start my junior year in early August 2020, and I 
haven’t been home to Australia since. Almost every 
international student has a story like these. 

This isn’t a cry for pity, though. Many of us who 
were stuck here over the pandemic made a home; we 
found ways to create family, to support each other, 
and to stop ourselves from going insane as the time 
There’s no Metro-North to 
China, and your parents can’t 
pick you up and drive you 
back to Kenya while you sleep 
in the backseat.

stretched on and on. My roommate Tiggy has a kind 
of brain fog when remembering the winter break 
we spent together last year. “To be honest, I don’t 
remember a lot of it,” she texted me. “There were 
some extremes. I remember getting very drunk with 
my roommate [me] and taking out the trash in our 
underwear in the freezing snow because ‘Why the 
fuck not?’ I remember telling myself that it would 
be a great time to make a lot of paintings. I think 
I made about two little ones the whole holiday.” 

Despite every intention to stay mentally healthy and 
paint and do yoga and read even one book over the 
break, we lost our sense of time together. We stayed 
up till 4 a.m. painting the walls in our living room, we 
watched all of Bridgerton, and we drew giant faces in 
the snow outside our house in the middle of the night. 
Tiggy and I lived in a six-bedroom house last 
year and our American roommates dropped like flies 
around the holidays, except for one, Jordan, who also 
stayed to celebrate Christmas and New Year’s with 
us. We gave each other little presents we bought 
from deserted stores on Chapel Street, we decorated 
a Christmas tree in our living room, and we watched 
Love Actually. We made a big dinner and invited over 
Ha Uyen and her roommate Michelle, who couldn’t 
go home to California. We drank mulled wine and 
sat at a table like a proper family. We said what we 
were grateful for, we shared a highlight of the year, 
and we probably avoided the topic of home. This was 
it for the time being, this was home. Tiggy remem­
bers our makeshift party of five people that we hosted 
to ring in the new year: “We had a very small New 
Year’s Eve celebration which included projecting the 
ball drop on our wall and wearing cowboy boots.” 

We didn’t have enough people to make three pairs 
who could kiss at midnight, but it didn’t matter; five 
people felt like a crowd that winter. 

Alara also remembers last year in New Haven 
as one filled with moments of pseudo-family and 
root-building in this city. When I messaged her about 
how she feels after being in this city for so long, she 
sent this reply: “I love how small New Haven is that I 
run into friends on the streets all the time with whom 
I can exchange smiles and Hi’s with that make me 
feel at home and gives a sense of belonging.” Having 
moved off campus last year, she also recalls the spe­
cial moments of hosting and being hosted in homey 
spaces in New Haven:  “I think last year having a lot 
of small gatherings and dinners at people's apartments 
during the pandemic made it feel a lot more like home 
and family.” 

But no matter how many dinner parties and Friends­
givings and Friendsmases you attend, it’s still tough to 
be caught between two countries. Mimi remembers 
struggling being away from family over the holidays. 
“Last winter was pretty lonely and difficult especially 
since this was the longest time I was away from home 
and the first Christmas and New Years I spent not at 
home,” she texted me. Over winter break, Mimi and 
I hung out in her apartment on Dwight Street, just 
a block down from my house. We watched episodes 
of Friday Night Dinner and she gave me a three-hour 
lesson about Balkan history before I trudged home 
through several feet of untouched snow. Mimi and I 
hardly ever hung out during the school year, but over 
the break we did—when we needed it. Mimi loves 
to talk about Macedonia and I love to listen. When I 
texted her about how she felt about her relationship to 
home, she replied with this message: “I realized that 
when I don’t go home for longer than 6 months I start 
to lose that part of me, the Macedonian part…That’s 
why I decided that I will go this winter even if it’s 
for two weeks. Luckily I have the privilege to do so.” 

Mimi is counting down the days (twenty-four, as of 
our interview) until she flies back to Macedonia.

As news of the Omicron variant started breaking 
in late November, we faced a familiar crisis. As I am 
writing this piece, we are still waiting for any conclu­
sive news about how the new strain may impact win­
ter travels. Ha Uyen is planning to return to Vietnam 
for the first time in three years. I have a flight booked 
to go home after my finals finish. Tiggy is going to 
spend Christmas with her family in Kenya. Alara can’t 
wait to be with her parents in Turkey. Will any of 
us get home? Will borders close again? Will stricter 
quarantines come back? Will we be able to get back 
to the US? 

Tiggy reminds me that we have roots here now; 
we have a little international family that could spend 
Christmas together again. We could decorate another 
tree and glaze a ham for three hours on the morning 
of the 25th. We would be grateful for it. We would 
have some semblance of normalcy. But, truthfully, 
after a year and a half in this city, I think we all just 
want to be the kids with the suitcases. 
Will Sutherland is a senior in Grace Hopper College 
and an Associate Editor of The New Journal. 
This was it for the time 
being, this was home.



**Title: Ideal Glass**
**Author: Eli Mennerick**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 10
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
IDEAL
GLASS
By Eli Mennerick	


JANUARY 2022
 11
Jayne Crowley, a stained-glass 
artist in Branford, restores the 
last church windows of her 
fifty-year career.



**Page number(s): 12**

 12
I
t was nine on a November 
morning, the sun low in the east, 
and eleven stained-glass win­
dows in the west end of the nave 
glowed strangely from the indirect 
light. The glass was mostly opal­
escent sky blue, but it danced as I 
watched: ripples of orange, yellow, 
and green burst from nowhere, 
then faded away. In one window, 
four pieces of red glass formed the 
Greek letter alpha. In another shone 
a red omega.

artist and an expert in restoration. 
Later this morning, the windows 
would be extracted from the walls; 
then Jayne would drive them to 
her studio in nearby Branford, take 
them completely apart, and, over 
the next two months, restore them.

Jayne is 75 years old, about five 
feet tall, and not as strong as she 
used to be. She can’t lift large win­
dows herself anymore. In Feb­
ruary, she plans to go into par­
tial retirement and give up major 
restoration jobs like this one for 
good. It’ll be nice. She’ll leave her 
Branford studio. She’ll work from 
home. She’ll focus on her own art, 
and she won’t have to deal with the 
physical strain of repairing heavy 
windows. These six in the Stony 
Creek nave will be the last of her 
career.

But right now, there was a 
problem. Whoever had previously 
installed the windows had soldered 
them directly to the metal bars in 
the opening of the wall—according 
to Jayne, they should have twisted 
wires around those bars instead. 
“I don’t know what idiot ever did 
that,” she said. 

She tried to grind through the 
solder with a Dremel, to no avail. 
Then her apprentice, Francis, fig­
ured out you could cut the solder 
with wire cutters. He walked from 
window to window, snipping 
them loose. Francis will take over 
Jayne’s studio when she leaves, and 
in the meantime, she’s teaching 
him the craft of restoration. Fran­
cis likes to call himself “grasshop­
per” and Jayne “master.” He’s in his 
late sixties and wears his gray hair 
in a short ponytail.

Eventually, two guys wearing 
cargo pants and hoodies showed 
up. Outside, one of them climbed 
a ladder and began to scrape the 
putty around a window with his 
box cutter. Chunks of the stuff 
came showering down. Jayne, 
who had been inside labeling the 
windows with duct-tape Roman 
numerals, walked onto the lawn to 
watch.

More scraping. More shower­
ing. The second worker pushed 
from inside. Finally, the window 
emerged. The man on the ladder 
hoisted it with both hands, found 
his balance, and began to climb 
slowly down. The ladder shud­
dered with each step. He reached 
the grass and handed the window 
to Francis, who received it rev­
erently. It was too fragile to hold 
flat, so Francis carried it straight 
up in front of him, as if looking 
in a mirror. Beside the open trunk 
of her white Volvo, Jayne silently 
watched him approach. Francis 
rested the left edge of the window 
on the floor of the trunk and slowly 
lowered the right. We exhaled: the 
first of six was safe.
⬖
Glass shards in cardboard boxes, 
glass sheets leaning against tables, 
glass lampshades that look floridly 
expensive, one large glass doll­
house with a green gabled roof—
PHOTOGRAPHY BY  TIM  TAI  /  DESIGN BY ALLY SOONG

Jayne Crowley was here at Stony 
Creek Congregational Church to 
oversee the removal of the alpha 
window, the omega window, and 
four others. The windows were 
over a hundred years old, and 
their cames—strips of lead that join 
each piece of glass together—had 
warped and crumbled. A few pieces 
of glass had cracked. The windows 
needed a facelift, and Jayne was 
the plastic surgeon: a stained-glass 

The windows needed a 
facelift, and Jayne was 
the plastic surgeon: a 
stained-glass artist and 
an expert in restoration.

In February, Jayne Crowley will 
partially retire from her stained-glass 
business.



**Title: Jayne's Studio**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
JANUARY 2022
 13
all this and more litter the floor of 
Jayne’s studio. You have to watch 
where you step. One Thursday 
morning in October, Jayne her­
self nearly kicked a sheet of glass. 
“Always a million things lying on 
the floor that don't belong there,” 
she said theatrically, like it was 
someone else’s fault.

Jayne wore black that day: black 
socks, black capris, a black T-shirt. 
But there were flashes of color—
on her shirt, three cartoon fish: 
orange, red, blue. On her gray 
sneakers, threads of orange around 
the ankles and at the tips of the 
tongues. Her short hair is golden 
blond, dusted lightly with silver. 
Her eyes are blue, and the thick 
plastic frames of her bifocals are 
sunflower yellow.

She was fixing a Handel lamp­
shade. It was around a hundred 
years old and would likely sell at 
auction for a couple thousand dol­
lars. A mosaic of cattails and water 
lilies circled the base; above them 
was a layer of blue pieces streaked 
with white, then a ring of orange. 
Each piece was lined with cop­
per foil and soldered in place. A 
few of the pieces had cracked, 
so Jayne had glued them back 
together. Jayne doesn’t waste old 
glass. It often achieves rare colors 
that can’t be matched today, partly 
because glassmakers back then 
added ingredients like uranium 
and arsenic. (In the early nine­
teen-hundreds, some glass could 
be close to 25 percent uranium.) 
Holding a coil of bright silver sol­
der against a soldering iron until it 
liquified, Jayne touched up a gap 
between two pieces of glass. The 
solder sank in and smoked. The air 
smelled bitter. 

Lead is the main ingredient 
in both solder and came. I once 
asked Jayne if that was dangerous. 
“Oh, yeah. Yes. There’s lead poi­
soning,” she said, and laughed: a 
bouncing chuckle that died down 
gradually. The CDC says an ele­
vated lead level is anything over 
five micrograms of lead per decili­
ter of your blood. Jayne has twen­
ty-five. (Later, she pointed out that 
this likely wasn’t all from stained 
glass; some of it could have come 
from growing up around lead 
paint in the nineteen-forties and 
fifties.) She doesn’t feel any symp­
toms, but her work takes its toll in 
other ways. In November 2019, 
Jayne was climbing on a stool, try­
ing to reach something on a shelf. 
Somehow, she shifted her weight 
wrong and the stool flipped over. 
She landed hard. It took a year and 
a half for her back to heal.

Jayne works in her studio in Branford, Connecticut.


--- Page 14 ---

 14
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Jayne has been making stained 
glass since either 1973 or 1974, 
she can’t remember which. Either 
way, it’s getting close to fifty years. 
She’s one of only a handful of 
independent stained-glass artists in 
Connecticut actively restoring old 
church windows—Jayne estimates 
there are three or four others along 
the coastline, maybe a few more 
upstate. All of them are getting on 
in years. Some are shutting down 
their studios, too old to carry on. 
When Jayne starts working from 
home next year, she’ll join their 
ranks.

Jayne believes that the com­
ing years could be grim for the 
stained-glass scene. Without stu­
dios like hers, the only places that 
would restore church windows 
would be big out-of-state glass 
firms that charge huge fees. Small 
Connecticut churches wouldn’t 
be able to raise the necessary cash, 
and so their windows—old, beau­
tiful windows—would deteriorate. 
Some glass, perhaps, would crack. 
The paint might chip and flake. 
The cames might stretch and cor­
rode, or the window frame might 
warp, weakening the entire struc­
ture, until at last the glass falls to 
the ground and shatters.

⬗
There’s a joke on Twitter about 
traveling back in time and giving 
a medieval peasant a Dorito. The 
punchline is they’d die. But if a 
nacho-flavored chip could have 
killed someone back then with 
overstimulation, I don’t know how 
anyone survived Chartres Cathe­
dral. Inside are 176 windows, over 
twenty-seven thousand square feet 
of stained glass. Light pours from 
every wall, pooling in vivid scar­
let and sapphire on the stone floor. 
Three massive “rose windows” 
blossom in concentric circles, 
depicting the Last Judgement, the 
Virgin and Child, dozens of Bibli­
cal scenes. The smallest rose win­
dow is thirty feet across. It must 
have been like looking straight 
into God’s iris. 

All 176 windows were installed 
between 1203 and 1240. Since then 
it’s all been downhill, many experts 
think. During the Renaissance, the 
big-shot artists picked up paint­
ing instead of stained glass. Then 
the Protestants arrived and began 
building their supremely boring 
churches. Stained glass’s decline 
was complete: walls of divine light 
had fallen decisively out of fashion.

Skip to the eighteen hundreds. 
The British Arts and Crafts move­
ment, in search of a style untainted 
by capitalism, decided Gothic 
architecture (and stained glass with 
it) fit the bill. Across the Atlan­
tic, American artists mimicked 
the crafts but dropped the social­
ist undertones, sparking a stained-
glass renaissance. Louis Comfort 
Tiffany’s Art Nouveau lamps and 
windows led the way—he’s still the 
one name you’d know if you knew 
any American stained-glass.

During 
the 
nineteen-sixties, 
stained glass lost sight of God. 
Here’s how the website for the 
Stained Glass Association of Amer­
ica portentously describes the 
period:

The statement “God is dead” was 
heard. It was time for stained glass 
to find a home in the secular world 
again. After the pessimistic “beat­
niks” came the optimistic “hip­
pies” spreading eastward from San 
Francisco where they were rehabbing 
the old houses, painting them bright 
colors and, of course, repairing the 
stained glass.

Jayne was born a couple decades 
earlier, on the Fourth of July, 1946. 
As a kid in North Haven, she had 
no interest in art but lots in sci­
ence. Her favorite toy was an A.C. 
Gilbert chemistry set. She’d mix 
vials full of chemicals, heat them 
over candles, and watch them bub­
ble over. Gilbert chemistry sets, 
long since banned, included plenty 
of harmless chemicals along with 
some plenty harmful ones, like 
potassium nitrate and sodium cya­
nide. The company even made a 
short-lived “Atomic Energy Lab,” 
which came with, yes, uranium.

Jayne attended St. Mary’s High 
School in New Haven, a Catho­
lic school. “That was probably the 
demise of my religion,” she told 
me. (About ten years ago, though, 
she returned to repair the con­
vent’s windows. “I came back to 
haunt them,” she said.)

She studied chemistry for a cou­
ple years of college, then put her 
academics on pause. After a mar­
riage and a kid and a move to New 
York and a divorce, Jayne ended 
up working at the West Haven 
branch of Miles Laboratories, a 
pharmaceutical company in the 
complex that’s since become Yale’s 
West Campus. She didn’t like it 
much, so after a couple years, she 
moved to Colorado. There, she 
met people who were part of a 
growing American crafts move­
ment. (These were presumably the 
“hippies” who had killed God.) She 
played around with pottery, with 
macramé, with “all different kinds 
of crafts,” she said. Soon after, she 
moved back to Connecticut and 
tried stained glass for the first time. 
She fell irrationally, irrevocably 
in love. She speaks of the decision 
as if it had not been a decision at 
all, but an event beyond her con­
trol. She told me once that the glass 
itself had said to her, “This is what 
you’re going to do.” 

She fell irrationally, 
irrevocably in love.


--- Page 15 ---

 15
decline. “All these things are fall­
ing away,” she told me. “We live 
in a throwaway society.” 

She blames it mostly on IKEA: 
mass-automation makes it cheaper 
to buy new things, she says, than to 
fix old ones. But stained glass can’t 
yet be automated very efficiently, 
and the restoration of old win­
dows is the opposite of throwaway 
culture. The real problem, Jayne 
believes, is that not enough young 
people want to devote themselves 
to the craft—the work is just too 
hard.

⬘
One morning at the end of 
October, I arrived at Jayne’s studio 
with a piece of paper stuffed in my 
pocket. The drawing on it looked 
like this:

Jayne chose a deep blue glass for 
the outer corners and something 
called “glue chip” glass for the cen­
tral piece. Glue chip glass is made 
by sandblasting a sheet of clear 
glass, then coating it with ani­
mal-hide glue. As the glue dries, it 
“pings off,” Jayne said, taking little 
chips of glass with it and leaving 
a frosty, fern-like pattern. I told 
Jayne I’d be happy to pay her for 
the materials. She just laughed at 
me. “Oh, please,” she said.

Jayne cut along the lines of my 
drawing and traced the corner 
pieces onto the blue glass with a 
Sharpie. Then she placed the glass 
cutter—a tiny wheel of carbide fas­
tened to a plastic handle—against a 
straightedge and dragged it toward 
her along one of the Sharpie lines. 
It made a sound like quickly ripped 
cardstock and left a slender score. 
Jayne snapped the glass with her 
hands; it broke cleanly. Next she 
made a curved score, freehand. She 
squeezed a pair of running pliers—
which have a mouth shaped like a 
frown—on the score, and the glass 
snapped along the curve. Piece 
number one was finished. 

I copied Jayne, dragging the 
glass cutter, squeezing the running 
pliers. It was like snapping a sheet 
of caramel. The edges of the glass 
left my fingers with an odd rough­
ness, and I wondered if it was the 
feeling of tiny shards in my skin. 
“You’re all set,” Jayne said, and 
walked away. 

I didn’t feel quite set. I tried my 
first curved score, but, pressing 
too hard and moving too fast, I 
slipped wide of my intended line. 
Jayne came back and excised a del­
icately thin slice to make my piece 
its proper size. She moved more 
slowly than I had and held the cut­
ter more gently.

When Jayne first started, there 
were 
no 
stained-glass 
teach­
ers in the area, she said. So she 
taught herself, a mystifying feat 
in a highly technical craft. Even 
she can’t explain how she learned 
everything—how to solder, how 
to cut glass, what kind of pliers 
to buy. Sometimes she visited a 
stained-glass store called Whitte­
more-Durgin, where she might 
have been told what supplies she 
needed. But the rest of it was luck 
and trial and error and youthful 
determination. 

She 
rummaged 
through dumpsters to find scraps 
of glass. Her first ever piece was a 
purple and blue glass jewelry box. 
At the time, the switch from 
chemistry to glass felt like a hard 
pivot. But the more deeply she 
fell in love with glass, the more 
she began to see the connection. 
“The chemical makeup of glass is 
so unusual,” she said. “It’s the only 
thing you can transform, shape, 
make it molten, make it solid, blow 
it into a ball, and then take that ball 
and flatten it out again.” 

In the nearly fifty years since she 
opened her first studio, Jayne has 
burned through ten studios (one 
of them did literally burn down), 
all in Branford. Now, she believes 
stained glass and other skilled 
trades—masons, cobblers, book­
binders, furniture-makers—are in 
Jayne was going to help me 
make it into stained glass. She 
wore a plain black sweatshirt over 
a red turtleneck. On her wrists and 
around her neck, the red peeked 
out from behind the black. Fran­
cis, the apprentice, was working at 
a nearby table and whistling.

Jayne restores one of the Stony Creek 
windows.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Eli Mennerick**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 16
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
After considerable difficulty, I 
ended up with four ugly corner 
pieces. I still had to make my cen­
ter piece out of the glue chip glass. 
On my first three attempts, the 
glass snapped in half immediately.
1.) Bad:
My second cut was clean again. 
Just two left. I squeezed my run­
ning pliers, and—disaster.
Last one. I scored the glass, 
squeezed the grozers, felt it crack 
all at once. I held up my star to 
show Jayne. 
2.) Worse:
3.) Awful:
I’d wasted at least a square foot 
of Jayne’s glass by then, and I was 
starting to feel guilty. On attempt 
four, I tried angling the running 
pliers toward the curve of the 
score. Behold: it broke left and 
cracked clean.
“You’re starting to learn the 
properties of glass,” Jayne told me. 
I felt proud. 
“It’s nerve wracking,” I said.
“It’s supposed to be fun!” she 
replied.
I felt genuinely distraught. Why 
is this so hard? I thought. What 
could I be doing wrong? I’m wast­
ing Jayne’s glass for no reason at 
all. I wanted to apologize but 
didn’t want to show her what I’d 
done. So I just stood there for a 
while and pretended I was making 
great progress. 

Jayne was utterly unbothered. 
She cut me another sheet of glue 
chip glass, and I pulled myself 
together. Cut one was clean, but 
I hesitated on cut two. I’d have to 
squeeze the running pliers on the 
sharp point of the glass, rather than 
on a flat edge. It didn’t feel right. I 
asked Jayne. She came over slowly 
from across the room. 
“I’m done tormenting you,” she 
said. She made a score an inch out­
side the Sharpie mark and picked 
up the grozers—a pair of pliers 
with a bottom jaw that curves up 
like an underbite—instead of the 
running pliers. Working from the 
side, she snapped her approximate 
score with the grozers, then made 
a perfect break along the Sharpie 
line. I’d been using the wrong 
technique, and she’d been letting 
me struggle.
On the third cut, I imitated 
Jayne: success.
“Hooray!” she said. 

Jayne seemed to take pity on me 
after that. I needed it—cutting the 
glass was more exacting than I’d 
expected. She had Francis help me 
line each glass piece in copper foil, 
paint the foil with flux, solder the 
pieces together, and frame it all in 
came. 

The next day, with Jayne’s guid­
ance, I rubbed patina onto the sol­
der, which darkened it from silver 
to dusky gray. Finally, I attached 
two metal rings to the frame, for 
hanging.  

It had taken me two days to make 
a suncatcher the size of a large slice 
of bread. The edges were jag­
ged, the foiling was shoddy, and 
the solder lines bulged. I couldn’t 
imagine making a full-sized win­
dow. But on the whole, I thought 
my piece was pretty. Back in my 
apartment, I propped it up on the 
windowsill, and the glue chip glass 
scattered the afternoon sunlight 
across the walls.
⬙
The glass in a cathedral win­
dow flows toward the ground one 
nanometer every billion years. 
This is beyond slow. The universe, 
for instance, is a little under 14 bil­
lion years old. I remember being 
told in middle school that glass was 
a liquid, but that’s only sort of true. 
Really, glass is something much, 
much stranger. If it’s a liquid, it’s a 
liquid stuck in time, or locked out 


--- Page 17 ---

JANUARY 2022
 17
of time: an eternal liquid.
“Glass” is not a particular sub­
stance, it’s a category of substances. 
Anything can be glass if its mole­
cules are arranged chaotically like 
a liquid but feel rigid like a solid. 
Ordinary window glass is made 
from melted silica sand, but the­
oretically, almost any liquid could 
unlimited time to flow past one 
another, settle together, and reach 
the densest of all possible ran­
dom arrangements. Its molecules 
would look jumbled but would in 
fact follow a mysterious, invisible 
pattern (a “long-range amorphous 
order,” scientists call it). All glass—
from windows to eyeglasses to 
wineglasses to fiber optic cables—
is slowly, slowly approaching this 
true glass. As far as anyone knows, 
ideal glass has never existed in the 
history of the universe. It just takes 
too long to form. 

If you had billions and 
billions of years at your 
disposal, you might be able 
to catch the first glimpse 
of ideal glass. You might 
see a normal window, for 
instance, flow down into 
itself and gradually arrive at 
perfection. 
become a glass if you cool it fast 
enough. Plastics and hard candies 
are technically glass. You make 
glass by dropping a liquid’s tem­
perature so fast that its molecules 
can’t crystallize into a solid—they 
keep flowing, only slower and 
slower and slower.
No one can figure out why this 
happens. 
The 
Nobel-winning 
physicist Phillip W. Anderson 
once wrote that the nature of glass 
is “the deepest and most interest­
ing unsolved problem in solid state 
theory.”
Some people think glass is mat­
ter stuck between solid and liquid. 
They call it an amorphous solid or 
a supercooled liquid. Others think 
it’s something weirder—an imper­
fect reflection of a yet unwitnessed 
state of matter they call “ideal 
glass.” Ideal glass is what glass 
would become if its molecules had 

Sheets of glass in Jayne's studio.


--- Page 18 ---

 18
cames apart, disassembled the win­
dow, and soaked the glass in water 
to help remove the old putty. She 
had spread the rubbing out on a 
table, and now she was fitting all 
the glass pieces back together with 
fresh came, working from the bot­
tom right to the top left corner. 
She had reached a row of blue, dia­
mond-shaped pieces near the bot­
tom. They looked like my troubled 
piece of glue chip glass, but a little 
smaller and a lot neater. 

She 
worked 
steadily, 
cycli­
cally. Her cycle went like this: Set 
the next piece of glass into place 
against the came. Tap the glass 
gently into the existing structure 
with a rubber mallet. Drive a flat-
sided nail into the table, flush with 
the edge of the glass piece, just to 
keep it still. Cut a new length of 
came. Remove the nail and press 
the came onto the exposed edge 
of the glass. Tap the came snug 
with the mallet. Use another nail 
to keep the came in place until the 
next piece is ready. Remove the 
nail and repeat. 

The aim of restoration is not to 
improve the original window, but 
to mirror it exactly. Where the 
original window used a thicker or 
thinner or flatter came, Jayne did 
too. The omega window displayed 
a technique called “cross weaving,” 
in which the vertical and hori­
zontal cames alternated long and 
short. Jayne replicated it. Molding 
the soft came with fingertips dark 
from the lead, she wove a tapestry 
of metal and glass.
Soon, the restored windows will 
be hauled up again the same way 
they came down. Jayne will load 
them in her trunk and drive them 
to Stony Creek Congregational 
Church. A man will carry one of 
them up a precarious ladder. The 
window will be slotted into the 
opening, where it will rest against 
metal bars. Thin wires that Jayne 
will have soldered to the came will 
be twisted around these bars to 
hold the window in place. The sun 
will catch the glass, and it’ll ripple 
orange, yellow, green. Then the 
other five will go back in, and it’ll 
be over, and Jayne will never again 
restore windows of this magni­
tude.
“It feels… fine,” she said. It feels 
fine to be done. Of course, after 
working in studios for close to fifty 
years, it’s sad to leave the last one. 
“But it’s time,” she said. Then she 
was quiet for a while. 

Recently, Jayne hired someone 
to convert a shed in her yard into 
a proper home studio. Now it has 
air conditioning, heating, painted 
walls, and plenty of windows. 
“It’s so light and airy,” she said. 
“They’ve done a wonderful job.” 
When she leaves the Branford stu­
dio and moves home, she’ll spend 
her days in that shed making orig­
inal pieces, trying out new tech­
niques, and reveling in retirement. 
Her neighbors, in Short Beach, are 
excited for her. Some of them have 
asked her to host an open studio so 
they can see the new place. Peo­
ple call out to her from the street, 
Jayne said. They yell: “That shed is 
so beautiful!”
This isn’t the end for Jayne. She’s 
settling down gradually, like glass. 
It’s not yet time to call it quits—
not when she can wake up in the 
morning, walk to her shed full of 
light, and work all day until the 
sun sinks in the west and flares in 
the windows one last time before 
it sets. 

Eli Mennerick is a senior in 
Ezra Stiles College and Managing 
Editor of The New Journal.
Jayne straightens a length of lead came.



**Title: GOING BACK HOME FOR THE FIRST TIME**
**Author: NIMRAN SHERGILL**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I.
Main ghar aa gayi.
I’ve come home.
II.
My hands fall into the usual routine.
Muscle memory:
I am washing the dishes
and checking the washing machine
and serving my siblings food 
and making sure water glasses were full.
III.
Flick, flick—why isn’t the light turning on?
My finger doesn’t make contact
With the toggle light switch.
Oh, this is a rocker switch.
IV.
My brother’s soft hands,
my sister’s warm arm.
Singing in the car
playing video games
watching Pokémon
pressing one M&M at a time
into palms.
Three of us together.
That’s how time goes by,
how time goes by,
how it’s always been.
V.
Purple winter jacket,
Engineering textbooks, 
and graph paper.
My whiteboard with my schedule
all orderly and arranged
with most hours structured.
Becton, Mason, Dunham...
VI.
“Were you here when—?”
“Yeah.”
“Yeah, that was right before I left.”
“So when did you leave?”
VII.
You want almonds?
Cabinet next to the fridge:
third quadrant,
second shelf,
right in the front,
steel container.
Set it on the counter
before you twist the top off.
VIII.
Vines of irritation creep into my thoughts.
Wasting time on my phone,
wasting time watching TV,
not turning in assignments,
not doing something that makes me feel
like I’m making progress.
I need to wor—you need to relax.
Slow down. I remember
walking up Science Hill and back,
up and down stairs,
thinking about my schedule constantly
to email about my availability.
You’ve done a lot, so slow down.
I bite my finger, wanting to snap the vines.
I don’t have a schedule!
I shrug my shoulders.
That’s the whole point.
IX.
I used to think
I am in the New World,
I will go back to the Old World,
and things will be different.
But I feel like the same person 
in two places. 
Unchanged 
and relieved. 
X.
I am the toughest sister, the coolest, the calmest,
so I think until the tears fall from baby eyes,
his head down and shoulders shaking.
Time for the big sister to play her part.
“Don’t cry! I’ll be back!
I’ll be back.” I say the only line
I’ve rehearsed enough to say
without my voice locking.
I give a hug, and I smile with eyes wide open.
I’m the softest sister,
but I know that
the promise of coming back
is stronger than the reality
of saying goodbye. I’ll be back.


**Title: Yale lost students' stuff. They want it back.**
**Author: ALEXANDRA GALLOWAY**
**Page number(s): 20**

Yale lost students' stuff. 
They want it back. 
BY ALEXANDRA 
GALLOWAY
 20
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
DESIGN BY 
ANNLI NAKAYAMA


**Author: Alexandra Galloway**
**Page number(s): 21**

JANUARY 2022
 21
J.
D. Wright ’24 shivered 
and curled into their 
sleeping bag. It was 
February 2021. It had snowed, 
and Davenport College’s heating 
wasn’t enough to ward off the chill 
in their dorm room. It was freez­
ing inside and out—cold enough 
for your teeth to chatter and your 
joints to ache and for you to pull 
all your old blankets from the 
closet. But J.D. had no blankets to 
bundle under, or any bedding at 
all, save for that thin sleeping bag. 
Yale had lost it all. 
J.D. wasn’t the only one to 
lose their things. As of Decem­
ber 2021, students have filed 
1104 claims to be reimbursed for 
lost items, some of which total in 
the tens of thousands of dollars. 
When the pandemic began in 
March 2020, students had already 
left for spring break, which made 
it almost impossible for out-of-
state and international students to 
return to New Haven and retrieve 
their things. 
So Yale stepped in, at first 
retrieving only essential items but 
later expanding their operations 
to packing up all student belong­
ings. Once the items were packed, 
they offered to ship them home 
or store them for the student. If a 
student opted to store their items, 
they could later pick the items up 
themselves or ask Yale to move 
their stuff into their new dorm 
room upon their return to cam­
pus, in spring or fall 2021. 
After J.D. spent a year stranded 
in Illinois because of the pan­
demic, they expected that their 
bedding (and all their other pos­
sessions) would be awaiting them 
in their dorm room as Yale had 
promised. But, when J.D. arrived, 
they found that Yale hadn’t kept 
its word: Most of their things, 
including their bedding, were 
missing. 
J.D. couldn’t afford to replace 
any of it—they’d come to Yale 
that semester with only $90 to 
their name, they recall. It wasn’t 
until six weeks later that Yale 
reimbursed them $800—the total 
value of all their lost items. But 
it was warmer by then, and they 
needed to start saving up to fly 
back home. So, they deposited the 
money instead of spending it on 
bedding, or warm clothes. 
Worse 
than 
the 
bedding, 
though, was the loss of their 
books. The books were “parts of 
the people they were from,” full 
of letters and well-wishes for the 
future, J.D. explains. They miss 
their Polaroids, too—“the physical 
representation of [their] memo­
ries,” of friends, of home. They 
wrote everything they lost down 
when filing for reimbursement 
from Yale, so they’re not wor­
ried about forgetting. But they 
miss the comfort of holding their 
memories in their hands. 
“Did they ever explain where 
my stuff went?” J.D. repeats my 
question. 
After a beat: “No.” 
Half-amused, J.D. tells me that 
Yale lost their stuff again this 
semester. They had stored their 
items with Yale over the sum­
mer as part of a summer storage 
program offered through Dav­
enport College, but when they 
arrived on campus this fall, they 
once again found that all their 
items had vanished.  Though Yale 
returned J.D.’s stuff to them after 
two weeks, the University still 
hasn’t explained this second disap­
pearance, nor has the University 
explained how it misplaced the 
items of over a thousand students, 
who, when they finally returned 
to campus, opened the cardboard 
boxes littering their rooms and 
found nothing but disappoint­
ment. 
WHEN SHIT HIT 
THE FAN 
“No one knew that there was 
going to be a pandemic,” says 
Kathryn Vieillard, Deputy Direc­
tor of Yale Conferences and 
Events (Yale C&E), the campus 
office that was responsible for 
shipping and storing students’ 
belongings. She is excited to talk, 
like someone who has something 
to say but hasn’t had the chance to 
say it, and before I can even ask 
my first question, she’s taking me 
back to the beginning, when it all 
started in March 2020.
In an email sent March 3, 
2020—the Tuesday before spring 
break—Dean Marvin Chun urged 
students to “consider bringing 
any items [they] will want with 
[them] if [their] return to campus 
is delayed,” as COVID began to 
disrupt travel around the world. 
But the pandemic still felt like an 
impossibility, and, free from mid­
terms and high on the promise of 
beach nirvanas, students didn’t lis­
ten. So, when the pandemic came 
and Yale moved classes online, 
many students didn’t have what 
they needed, and Yale was at a 
loss for how to return their things. 
They turned to Vieillard at Yale 
C&E to help them deliver essential 
items home to students. 
At the time, the task seemed 
simple, so Vieillard agreed. She 
volunteered 
herself 
and 
“As of December 
2021, students have 
filed 1104 claims to 
be reimbursed for 
lost items, some of 
which total in the 
tens of thousands of 
dollars.”



**Title: The Great Yale Belongings Caper**
**Author:  Not specified in provided text**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 22
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Yale C&E team to help plan the 
retrieval of essential items, like lap­
tops, textbooks, and passports. At 
first, it felt manageable—only 550 
students had requested that Yale 
retrieve items for them. Vieillard’s 
team contacted two moving com­
panies, Dorm Room Movers and 
Meyer; ordered gloves and hand 
sanitizer; and coordinated vol­
unteers from the dining halls and 
their HR department to help get 
students what they needed most 
for this initial retrieval of items. 
But on the eve of executing this 
plan, Yale administrators asked 
Yale C&E for help on another 
front. They needed Yale C&E to 
clear the rooms on Old Campus of 
all student belongings so that Yale 
graduate students could live there 
and safely socially distance. Then 
the state of Connecticut said Yale 
C&E needed to clear 500 rooms 
for first responders. Then the team 
needed to organize COVID quar­
antine housing. And so on. Yale 
C&E, with a staff of only twen­
ty-two, had to set up a 24/7 office. 
As Vieillard puts it, “No one knew 
the scope of what we would have 
to do.” 

BOXED IN 
“Think about what a student’s 
room might look like when they 
are just leaving for spring break,” 
Vieillard bids me. My suite, I 
remember, had clothes strewn 
about the floor, papers scattered on 
the desks, unmade beds, and toilet­
ries crowding the sink. 

Movers, both those from Meyer 
and those subcontracted to Dorm 
Room Movers, had to figure out 
what belonged to which student—
what went in the box and what 
went in the trash. (Sometimes, 
these decisions of what to send 
and what not to send bordered on 
the absurd. Maayan Schoen ’23 
says she received a rotten potato 
and a half-used bottle of shampoo, 
but almost none of her clothing 
or valuables.) Often, according 
to Vieillard and Meyer’s Ryan 
DeVille (a Business Development 
Associate, who helped coordinate 
the Yale job), students wouldn’t 
respond to movers. Other times, 
movers would discover that stu­
dents had switched rooms with­
out telling Yale. “One suitemate 
moves to Italy for the semester, so 
[another girl] moves into [their] 
room, because it’s nicer,” Vieillard 
conjures as an example. 

After deciding what belonged 
to whom and what went in the 
box and what didn’t, Meyer and 
Dorm Room Movers had to either 
store the items in local Connecti­
cut warehouses or ship them back 
to students, both domestically and 
internationally. 

The 
shipping 
process 
often 
involved lots of “red tape,” DeV­
ille recalls. Meyer employees found 
themselves having to navigate the 
customs laws of countries around 
the world. When I ask about the 
most challenging delivery, DeVille 
pauses, before starting to read off a 
Korean mailing address. He gives 
up halfway through and starts to 
spell out the letters. He laughs, and 
says the hardest part was “commu­
nication.” 

Because of COVID regula­
tions, no one could access dorms 
except the movers. Sometimes, 
Yale C&E employees could visit 
dorm rooms, but for the most part, 
they had to supervise the moving 
remotely. And once the boxes left 
the shipping company and headed 
to Texas or Mississippi or London, 
Yale C&E couldn’t control what 
happened (they did, however, keep 
records, according to Vieillard). 

DeVille estimates that Meyer 
moved over twenty-five thousand 
items and coordinated between 
four-hundred 
and 
six-hundred 
deliveries. Given the scale of the 
operation, as Vieillard puts it, “it 
was inevitable some things would 
get lost and never be found, or 
damaged, 
or 
broken 
beyond 
repair.” Despite their best efforts, 
Yale C&E anticipated that things 
would, naturally, slip through the 
cracks. 

HOW DO YOU LOSE 
A COUCH ?
Katherine Sylvester ’23 doesn’t 
understand how her couch slipped 
through the cracks. It wasn’t a spe­
cial couch, L-shaped and beige, 
but she thought it would be hard 
to lose. She understood how items 
could get lost in the chaos of the 
pandemic. Katherine had expe­
rienced it firsthand when she 
opened the boxes Yale sent home 
to her in spring 2020 and found 
that her framed Dead and Com­
pany poster — a gift from her dad 
— was missing. But like J.D., when 
they lost their items for a second 
time, she had stored the couch 
with Yale through her residential 
college’s summer storage program 
(run in conjunction with Meyer). 
The program, which was cheaper 
and more convenient than getting 
a storage unit, permitted students 
(among other things) to “leave 
one couch per suite” to store over 
the summer of 2021. By then, she 
thought, Yale would have had 
enough time to ensure no item 
went missing. The couch was big, 
and she had labeled it with her full 
name and suite number, as Daven­
port College had specified in their 


--- Page 23 ---

JANUARY 2022
 23
summer storage directions. She 
was disappointed when it went 
missing, she recalls, but more than 
anything, “determined to find out” 
where it and her other belongings 
(a lamp and a chair) had gone.  

So, she contacted the Davenport 
College office, who then directed 
her to Yale C&E, who re-di­
rected her to the facilities manager 
for Davenport, who re-directed 
her back to Yale C&E, who then 
encouraged her to send a mass 
email to her residential college and 
to email Meyer, who said to ask 
Yale. 

No one knew anything.
“It felt like they were ducking 
responsibility,” Katherine says. “I 
was constantly being directed to 
‘this person’ or ‘this form.’”

When Katherine had exhausted 
all avenues for finding her couch, 
after weeks of emailing back and 
forth, Yale C&E sent her a reim­
bursement 
form, 
which 
Yale 
C&E forwards to students seeking 
repayment after they determine an 
item has been lost. But she never 
got reimbursed. A few days after 
submitting the form, she received 
an email from Yale C&E invoking 
the fine print of the initial sum­
mer storage email Katherine had 
received. “Yale takes no respon­
sibility for any items that are left 
on campus in Spring 2021,” they 
quoted. 

KNOWN UNKNOWNS
When I ask DeVille what Meyer 
does when they can’t determine 
who owns an item, he answers 
matter-of-factly. They rely on 
Yale C&E to help them make that 
identification, he explains, but if 
they can’t find the owner, they put 
it with the “Unknowns.” 

According to DeVille, Meyer 
compiles 
these 
“Unknowns” 
together in one of their storage 
units—from what he describes on 
the phone, it’s a jumble of couches 
and fridges and boxes, full of who-
knows-what. From what I piece 
together from Vieillard and DeV­
ille and my conversations with 
students, there could be Burberry 
scarves, Gucci belts, spare note­
books, game consoles. There could 
be surrealist senior art projects 
and Polaroid photos. Journals and 
game consoles. Childhood stuffed 
animals. 

Soon, Yale and Meyer will 
unbox the items and dispel the 
mystery. They are planning to 
donate all the ‘Unknowns’ to the 
Salvation Army. It’s both an act 
of charity and of simple business. 
Vieillard explains to me that Yale 
has still been paying to store these 
‘unknowns.’ (Though she couldn’t 
give me the exact cost, I got the 
impression that it was expensive.) 

Neither Vieillard nor DeVille 
mentioned any plan to let Yale 
students look at the ‘Unknowns’ 
before they are donated.  

For Christmas, a lucky child 
may get a Burberry scarf, or Stuart 
Weitzman boots. They could even 
get a couch, or—who knows?—
maybe even an organ, according 
to Elko Gerville-Reache ’24, a stu­
dent in Trumbull College. 

“I had an organ—emphasis on 
had,” Elko says. Elko had spent 
years looking for a vintage Ace 
Tone Electronic Organ Model 
Top-2, like the one Ray Manza­
rek of The Doors played. In his 
common room, he set up a music 
studio, replete with amps, pedals, 
guitars, basses, and microphones. 
According to Elko, he knew Yale 
would somehow lose his stuff, so 
he emailed his residential college, 
Yale C&E, and Dorm Room Mov­
ers at the onset of the pandemic: 
“Do not touch my stuff.” 

They touched his stuff. 

They moved it into storage, 
which Elko says he was “initially 
okay with.” After all, Yale C&E 
had to move everything even­
tually to open up rooms for the 
2020-2021 school year. But he was 
nervous about them moving his 
things again, so, as Elko recalls, he 
emailed them again: “Do not touch 
my stuff. Whatever you do, leave 
it there.” They did not leave it in 
storage. 

“[The organ] took three to four 
years to find, and now I was told 
they just threw it out,” he says. 
His words crescendo, but then he 
stalls, as if imagining the red paint 
chipping in a landfill. His voice is 
heavy: “I hope someone took it 
and not—not just threw it out, you 
know?” 

"SATISFIED"
When I ask Dorm Room Mov­
ers if there were any challenges 
to moving such a large volume 
of items, Director of Customer 
Experience Tonya Kinney tells me 
that Dorm Room Movers “doesn’t 
see challenges, just opportunities 
to create a new service.” When 
I ask her what happens when an 
item goes missing, she assures me 
that customers have the “ability 
to purchase a protection plan” but 
that they will “use everything and 
every resource [available] to find 
that item.” If they can’t, she prom­
ises me they try to reimburse the 
client and do “everything in their 
power to ensure the customer is 
satisfied with the outcome.”  


--- Page 24 ---

 24
PAY BACK TIME 
The first time the (203) ***-
**** number called Katherine—
who is still, to this day, missing 
her couch—she thought it was a 
scammer. The second time, she 
picked up. She was shocked to 
find it was the Yale Police Depart­
ment (YPD), calling her about 
the reimbursement claim she filed 
for the missing couch (and other 
items). At the time, she had yet 
to discover she was ineligible for 
reimbursement. So when she filled 
out the reimbursement form with 
photos and prices for each miss­
ing item, she had thought she was 
done with the process. 

But it had just begun. It can 
take weeks to receive any reim­
bursement, which can hurt stu­
dents who “don't come to campus 
with a lot of resources to fall back 
on,” according to J.D. 

Lieutenant Sabrina Wood of 
YPD tells me that it is standard 
procedure for officers to call stu­
dents who file reimbursement 
claims. They go over students’ 
personal information, information 
about the items, and confirm they 
have taken steps to find their items 
before seeking reimbursement. 
Then, according to Wood, they 
let the student know that, under 
Connecticut Code 53A-157B, it’s 
a “Class A misdemeanor” to file 
a false police report. Wood esti­
mates that the YPD has handled 
75-100 of these cases. 	

Vieillard tells me that, though 
the University has paid out 831 
total claims to students, Yale C&E 
only 
forwards 
reimbursement 
claims above $500 to the YPD. 
“There have been claims of tens 
of thousands of dollars,” Vieillard 
says. When I ask if Yale is con­
cerned about false claims, Vieil­
lard tells me no. Wood, when I 
ask her the same question, tells me 
that “[YPD has] no way to inves­
tigate [false claims].” Yale C&E’s 
policy, according to Vieillard, is 
to take all claims at face value no 
matter how incredible.  “[You get 
students with] five Gucci coats, 
three of those goose down jackets 
[…],” she explains. “It was kind of 
amazing what some students had 
in their rooms.”

“The University put finances 
second,” Jennifer Franssen, Dep­
uty Director of Financial Plan­
ning and Analysis at Yale, tells me. 
Neither Franssen nor Vieillard can 
tell me how much any of this has 
cost—the storage, shipping, and 
reimbursement. When I ask Frans­
sen, she says, “I don’t know.” (Yale 
has a “chart of accounts” system 
which lets employees label any 
budget item and then total them 
accordingly. I ask Franssen if I can 
use this system to add up the num­
bers myself. I am told, quite gen­
tly, “No.”) But Vieillard assures 
me Yale isn't worried about the 
money. “The directive was not to 
be a penny pincher with these stu­
dents,” Vieillard says. “The direc­
tive was to make them whole.” 

The reason they involve the 
YPD at all, Vieillard says, is because 
Yale’s Office of Risk Management 
wants to ensure that there were 
no “patterns of foul play” by mov­
ers, not students. But why, then, 
would the YPD call students and 
not movers? It frightens students, 
and it doesn’t make much sense. 
After all, if Yale C&E were keep­
ing records, as Viellard suggests, 
they would be able to notice and 
notify the YPD of those patterns 
themselves without talking to stu­
dents. But still, Vieillard tells me 
she has “no knowledge” of any 
such patterns of foul play. When 
I contacted Risk Management and 
asked them to explain, they did 
not respond to my requests for 
comment. 

WHILE MY GUITAR 
GENTLY WEEPS
*Asterisk marks a pseudonym
Peter’s* mother waited for four 
hours on Easter to buy him Guitar 
Hero 3, when it came out in 2007. 
His eyes crinkle, as he smiles at the 
memory, before his face sinks, as 
he remembers how the game (and 
all his other games) vanished. 

He and his suitemates wanted 
to make sure all their items had 
been packed up and stored, so 
they asked Yale C&E for a list of 
their things. Yale C&E then con­
tacted Dorm Room Movers on 
their behalf. But instead of a list, 
Dorm Room Movers sent Peter 
pictures of his items. Peter and 
his suitemates could see that some 
of their things weren’t there, but 
they were pleasantly surprised that 
most things seemed to be. 

But when they moved into their 
dorm rooms this August, it was 
clear there were even fewer boxes 
than what Dorm Room Movers 
had promised in the photos. Plus, 
all their games and their game 
consoles (a Wii and an Xbox) 
were missing. 

To Peter, the logic should be 
simple. You open a box, you load 
the box, then someone else opens 
the box. An error, he suggests, 
must have occurred somewhere 
along the way. “I don’t want to 
sound like a conspiracy theorist,” 
he tells me. But when search­
ing for replacements for his rare 
games, which are no longer made, 
he was surprised that a number 
of them on eBay were being sold 



**Title: Yale C&E: A Year in Review**
**Author: Alexandra Galloway**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
JANUARY 2022
 25
from Connecticut. 
AWARD -WINNING 
SERVICE
“Considering 
how 
crazy 
it 
was,” Davenport College’s Head 
of Operations Shaffrona Phil­
lip-Christie tells me, “[it’s] shock­
ing we didn’t lose more items.” 
She 
wishes 
the 
residential 
college offices had been more 
involved in the process, but she 
tells me that in the big picture—
while some items were lost—many 
more were delivered, and Yale 
C&E did eventually find some of 
the items that went missing. With 
a staff of only twenty-two coordi­
nating thousands of student items, 
it does seem miraculous that more 
wasn’t lost, all the while helping 
first responders and those sick 
with COVID. 

“I am so proud of my staff,” 
Yale C&E’s Vieillard says. “They 
became like detectives.” 

According to Vieillard, when 
COVID restrictions were relaxed 
and allowed her staff to go into 
closed buildings, they would go 
look for student items them­
selves, often becoming personally 
invested in the case. “We're…on 
the phone, talking to kids,” she 
recalls, “trying to figure out what 
happened, why somebody had the 
wrong box, or why they didn't 
have any boxes, or why they were 
missing certain things.” They 
wanted to make it right. Out of 
1104 claims for missing items, 
Vieillard’s staff was able to resolve 
273. (They reimbursed the other 
831.)

For their service to the Uni­
versity, the team won a Linda 
Lorimer award, which accord­
ing to its website “recognize[s] 
individuals and teams among the 
Yale staff who have distinguished 
themselves through a commit­
ment to excellence and innova­
tive thinking.” Still, this apparent 
success is hard to reconcile with 
the feelings of students. “Maybe 
I’m being naive,” J.D. says. “But 
it can’t be that hard to store some­
thing.” Elko, when I ask how he 
feels, calls the team “incompetent.” 


**Title: Our Deepest Sympathies**

OUR DEEPEST 
SYMPATHIES 
“Sometimes, 
[a 
student] 
is 
missing something, not to coin 
the credit card company ad, that 
is ‘priceless,’” Vieillard explains. 
“Something your grandmother 
gave you, or a note from some­
one you can’t find now, or what­
ever it was. There were plenty of 
heart-breaking stories about heir­
looms, which people may or may 
not be reconnected with.” 

Vieillard says her team has a sys­
tem in which they track a student’s 
quest to find an item—whether a 
locket, or a diary, or Polaroids—
from beginning to end. They 
mark each development, from the 
moment they are contacted until 
they find the item, or until Yale 
C&E determines that it’s unfind­
able.


**Title: Some Things You Can't Replace**

SOME THINGS YOU 
CAN'T REPLACE
My grandfather sent my grand­
mother cross-country love letters 
when they were college students 
in the nineteen-fifties and sixties. 
She mailed them to me in the fall 
of my first year. I remember keep­
ing them in the bottom drawer of 
my desk, with school supplies and 
cards my mom sent me. When I 
was homesick, I would take them 
out and read them. I liked to feel 
the weight of their love in my 
hands. My grandfather died when 
I was four, so I never knew him, 
but I got to know him better 
through those letters, when he 
was eighteen and felt out of place 
at Yale, just like me, hundreds of 
miles from Fort Worth, Texas. 

When I went home for spring 
break in March 2020, I didn’t 
think about the letters. Now, I 
can’t remember if I made sure to 
put them back in the drawer, or if I 
left them on the coffee table in our 
common room when I left. Some­
times, I wonder if they fell under 
my bed as I was packing for spring 
break, or if I threw them into my 
luggage and forgot about them. 
I’d just turned nineteen and was 
too distracted by the Jimmy Fal­
lon tickets in my back pocket to 
worry when Dean Chun warned 
us to take what we needed. 

But I do remember that I felt 
thankful when my stuff was 
shipped back home to Texas. 
I knew that it must have been a 
nightmare for Yale to coordinate. 
Almost all my things were there, 
though all the papers were mixed 
up and my mug had been chipped. 
My notebooks were there. So was 
my bedding, and my ballet shoes, 
and the photo my mom and I took 
in front of Princeton. 

The letters weren’t.
Alexandra Galloway is a 
junior in Davenport College 
and Co-Editor-in-Chief of 
The New Journal. 


**Title: The Italian American Women of Greater New Haven and the Columbus Statue**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

I
f I was ever uncertain of 
whether other white grand­
mas dressed like mine, the 
breakfast meeting of the Italian 
American Women of Greater 
New Haven (IAWGNH) made the 
answer obvious. Her uniform was 
everywhere, without an infraction 
in sight: tan leather velcro-strap 
shoes or white sneakers, white 
shirts underneath buttoned cardi­
gans or fleecy vests, the occasional 
whiff of Chanel noº5 in between 
overwhelming waves of Chanel 
noº5, pearls and bulbous neck­
laces, little swooshing curls in 
hair just a few inches long, and so 
many scarves. Was this what my 
grandma’s mysterious bridge club 
looked like, all those years of my 
childhood?

“This is my pleasant leisure time 
activity,” said Frances Calzetta, 
the President of the IAWGNH. 
With a little smile, she gestured 
past a jumble of Thanksgiving 
and Christmas decorations, to the 
group’s members seated around 
square tables in a corner of the 
Twin Pines diner in East Haven.

Despite the festive ambience, 
Calzetta asserted that this was a 
“business meeting.” Or, she cor­
rected herself, it usually doubled as 
a breakfast and a business meeting. 
Usually, they’d discuss business 
first (fundraisers, candidates for 
their scholarship, other miscella­
neous items) and then chow down. 
But this time, it was a mess: the 
restaurant had booked two funer­
als—most likely either Greeks or 
Italians, she said—in the back room 
where Calzetta and 
her colleagues had planned to con­
duct their business. With agenda 
items thwarted, their breakfast was 
reduced to, well, just breakfast. 

It turns out the IAWGNH is 
nothing like a bridge club. Their 
“pleasant leisure time activity” is 
not cards—it’s a lawsuit against 
the city of New Haven. The 
group filed their suit in October, 
in response to the removal of the 
Columbus statue from Wooster 
Square Park in July of 2020. 

The removal resulted from pro­
tests against the statue during the 
movement for racial justice in 
June 2020 ignited by the death of 
George Floyd; over the course of 
the year, nearly a hundred other 
statues were removed across the 
country.

If Calzetta and her colleagues 
are fighting on the side of white 
backlash in the war over Ameri­
can history, their battle may seem 
obscure: a small group of mostly 
elderly Italian American Women 
of Greater New Haven, with funds 
raised from a fashion show (par­
tially collected in what appeared to 
be a Barnes and Noble paper bag), 
via discussions at eggs-and-bacon 
breakfasts at a local diner, have 
taken it upon themselves to com­
pel the city to put back a statue in 
a tiny park in New Haven. 

Columbus, of course, is not 
obscure; he has been aggrandized 
to the point of ubiquity. And the 
group’s actions aren’t surprising: 
they fit a national pattern of Italian 
Americans going to impassioned 
lengths to preserve Columbus’s 
monumental presence in America. 
Most statues taken down across the 
country in the last few years have 
stayed down, but local campaigns 
to restore them, in some cases, have 
been successful, or at least noisy. 
In Pittsburgh, an Italian Ameri­
can group has been in the process 
of suing the city since October of 
2020, in response to their Colum­
bus statue’s removal. In South 
Philly, a judge—who appeared on 
a podcast with QAnon organiz­
ers earlier this year, and was listed 
as speaker at a QAnon event she 
says she didn’t attend—reversed 
a decision made by city officials 
to remove their Columbus statue. 
City officials in Bridgeport voted 
to return their Columbus Statue 
months after voting to remove it, 
though the decision was reversed 
again a few hours before the statue 
was to be returned. 

Monuments are limited arti­
facts—and, 
ironically, 
Calzetta 
and IAWGNH’s lawsuit gestures 
towards this fact. Statues depicting 
historical figures feed the reduc­
tionist mode of historical think­
ing that has driven unwavering 
support for ‘heroes’ who are often 
anything but. In many cases, mon­
uments arise from—and perpetu­
ate, even—the same kind of Amer­
ican myth-making that views the 
acknowledgement 
of 
structural 
oppresion’s role in this country’s 
history as an existential threat; it’s 
the very approach of those who 
deem critical race theory to be an 
erasure of “Western history” and 
who agitate over the 1619 Proj­
ect’s reframing of history in terms 
of slavery and racial oppression. 
America’s and New Haven’s recent 
confrontation over monuments 
is more than a matter of political 
tip-toeing to appease proponents 
of old monuments and devise new 
monuments to fill space once held 
for racist symbols; it is also a fun­
damental reflection of the finite 
capacity of monuments to serve 
as meaningful vessels for pub­
lic memory at all. Representation 
matters in the public imagina­
tion—and new monuments that 
prioritize marginalized voices can 
offer a valuable solution, especially 
in a country where monuments 
remain ever-present in public 
spaces. But the failures of the Elm 
City’s approach to replacing their 
Columbus statue also show that 
reframing history, improving rep­
resentation, and creating dialogue 
between two partisan camps might 
be best achieved through other
 27
PHOTOGRAPHY BY  TIM TAI / DESIGN BY AVERY MITCHELL 



**Title: The Columbus Statue in Wooster Square Park**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
means. Perhaps we need to rethink 
monuments themselves.


On June 24, 2020, a large crane 
appeared in Wooster Square Park. 
Mayor Justin Elicker, citing “many 
leaders in the Italian Commu­
nity” who helped the city arrive 
at the decision, had unexpectedly 
ordered the statue’s removal just 
two days earlier, after the city Parks 
Commission voted to remove it. 
In the company of supporters and 
protesters, Columbus was trans­
planted to an orange platform on 
a truck, tethered with thick straps, 
and driven off. The statue’s base 
remained, protected by an iron 
black fence and a moat of tulips. 
On the day of the statue’s 
removal, the Italian American Her­
itage Group—a local organization 
made up of about 10,000 Italian 
Americans from New Haven and 
the surrounding area—filed a law­
suit against the city over Colum­
bus’s removal. A year later, on the 
one-year anniversary of the statue’s 
removal, a handful of the group’s 
members and other Italian Ameri­
cans gathered at the statue’s vacant 
base and hung up a sign that read, 
“ALL LIVES MATTER,” signed 
off: “From your Italian Ameri­
can Friends.” By then, the Italian 
American Heritage group’s request 
to nullify the vote to remove the 
statue had been dismissed. 
The IAWGNH decided to take 
up the fight; they filed their own 
lawsuit in October 2021. Accord­
ing to Calzetta, it rests on three 
claims: first, that “the mayor chose 
one ethnic group over another”; 
second, “a denial of due process” in 
the decision-making to remove the 
statue, which, they claimed, had 
violated Civil Rights protections, 
as well as First and Fourteenth 
Amendment rights; and third, “an 
inability to enjoy the park” where 
the statue once stood. Their law­
yer, Patricia Cofrancesco, who 
represented the Italian American 
Heritage Group before them, is 
presenting their case pro-bono. 
The rest of the legal expenses are 
being funded by local IAWGNH 
fundraising events, including an 
annual fashion show.
Calzetta and her colleagues are 
optimistic they will win, because 
they feel they have support from 
community 
members. 
Elicker 
has been publicly dismissive of 
the campaign. “This suit is with­
out cause or merit,” he wrote in 
an October statement, “We will 
vigorously defend this case. The 
plaintiff, in bringing it, is drain­
ing city resources away from more 
pressing issues before the city.” 


Calzetta considers herself a poli­
tician. She flaunts her campaigning 
for the preservation of the memory 
of Columbus at the New Haven 
Historical Society, where she is a 
member, and her “antipornogra­
phy work,” which includes fight­
ing for the closure of a strip club 
she feared would increase crime 
rates according to the New Haven 
Register, which described her as 
an “outraged neighbor.” She was 
also named to the Wooster Square 
Monument 
Committee, 
tasked 
with selecting an idea for a replace­
ment statue that represents Italian 
Americans; in August, the com­
mittee selected a replacement, and 
it has yet to be officially approved 
before the eighteen months of fab­
rication and installation of the new 
statue can begin.
During our interview, Calzetta 
freely reprimanded New Haven 
politicians for their roles in remov­
ing the statue. She called Congress­
woman Rosa DeLauro, a Wooster 
Square-born 
Italian-American 
who strongly opposed the statue, 
“an unfortunate congresswoman 
who turned her back on every­
thing she believed in for political 
reasons,” and chided Mayor Jus­
tin Elicker as a “very weak man,” 
“terrible terrible,” and, at the end 
of a string of more pejoratives, 
“a mayor who did not care about 
Columbus.” 
Calzetta cares about Columbus. 
She cares about Columbus to the 
point that New Haven-born and 
raised Italian American Histo­
rian Anthony Riccio calls her the 
“voice” of all Italians who oppose 
the removal of the Columbus 
statue. Columbus “was a tough 
governor,” Calzetta euphemizes, 
“but he did magnificent kinds of 
things: improve the lives of the 
Indians, the country became open 
for trading around the world, 
improving the lives of even the 
people who came to settle here.” 
When asked about how she weighs 
this supposed magnificence with 
Columbus’ responsibility for the 
genocide of Indigenous peoples, 
Calzetta says, “don’t give me all 
this about how great and wonder­
ful they [Indigenous peoples] are,” 
and adds that “they are hell bent 
on trying to destroy Columbus. 
And by destroying all this, they are 
discriminating against the Italian 
American people.” 


Monuments are 
limited artifacts–
and, ironically, 
Calzetta and 
IAWGNH’s lawsuit 
gestures towards 
this fact.


Beginning in the late nineteenth 
century, as scores of Italian immi­
grants settled in the Northeast of 
the United States, Columbus’s 
legacy was settling, too. In 1892, 
President Benjamin Harrison pro­
claimed Columbus Day as a one-
time national celebration. But 
Italian Americans took the hol­
iday and ran with it, organizing 
celebrations across the country in 
the following years with the help 
of sponsorship and state lobbying 
from the Knights of Columbus; 
soon enough, Columbus Day was 
a federal holiday. Simultaneously, 
Columbus monuments cropped up 
nationally: often funded by pri­
vate donations from Italians, these 
monuments were a point of pride, 
ceremony, and a new, hybrid Ital­
ian American nationalism. 
New 
Haven’s 
statue 
was 
unveiled in Wooster Square on 
October 12, 1892—the day after 
the first national celebration of 
Columbus Day. According to the 
New Haven Register’s archives, at 
the statue’s unveiling ceremony, an 
Italian-American speaker declared: 
“May this statue serve to eliminate 
whatever distinction there may be 
between Italians and Americans, 
and may it keep peace and pros­
perity for all future time.”
In New Haven and nationally, 
these 
Columbus-centered 
fix­
tures helped reinforce convenient 
myths: that Columbus was Ital­
ian (he wasn’t; he was born in the 
independent republic of Genoa 
four centuries before Italy was uni­
fied), that he “discovered” America 
(he never set foot in North Amer­
ica), that he was the “first immi­
grant” to the United States (the 
United States, of course, hadn’t 
yet been formed, and Columbus’s 
expedition was commercial, mili­
tary, and resulted in the genocide 
of millions of Indigenous people). 
But these myths had motive far 
greater than pride: Columbus was 
“central to the process through 
which [Italian-Americans] were 
fully ratified as white during the 
20th century,” as author and edi­
torial writer Brent Staples writes 
in his October 12, 2019 New York 
Times op-ed entitled “How Italians 
Became White.” In Italy, South­
ern Italians had faced discrimina­
tion from whiter Northern Ital­
ians, and immigration offered no 
escape. Abuse in America often 
took the form of slurs, exclusion 
from schools and labor unions, 
and consignment to segregated 
church pews. In the South, Italians 
were also subject to some of the 
mob violence routinely terrorizing 
Black Americans: in 1891, eleven 
Italian Americans were lynched in 
New Orleans—President Harri­
son’s 1892 Columbus Day procla­
mation was a direct response. Fac­
ing racialized violence, Italians had 
a choice between aligning with 
whiteness or with people of color, 
a choice they and other European 
immigrants were privy to because 
their new American identities 
were still undefined. They chose 
whiteness, and with it the rac­
ist violence of white supremacy 
essential to proving themselves 
as white. As the legal scholar and 
author of Uncle Tom: Why Blacks 
Must Police Racial Loyalty Brando 
Simeo Starkey writes: “[European 
immigrants] watched whites abuse 
blacks, mimicked whatever they 
saw and whiteness—the carrot they 
had long reached for—slowly came 
closer to their grasp.” 
Columbus’s role was thus two-
fold: he was an instrument for 
grabbing the carrot and a sym­
bol for maintaining a grip on it. 
Professor Thomas Allen Har­
ris, a Senior Lecturer in African 
American Studies and Film and 
Media Studies at Yale, spoke to 
me about the artifice embedded 
in the Columbus hero narrative. 
“Who decided that Columbus was 
[a hero] and how did that happen? 
That was a creation of manufac­
ture,” said Harris. The Columbus 
hero narrative, Harris told me, 
was a way for Italian-Americans 
to ennoble themselves—which all 
communities seek to do in one 
way or another. But the myth of 
Columbus didn’t just ennoble Ital­
ian Americans or make them more 
acceptable to the white majority. It 
made them white.


Calzetta was born and raised in 
Wooster Square, but now she lives 
in Branford. Riccio, who has inter­
viewed hundreds of former resi­
dents of Wooster Square, describes 
the area in his book The Italian 
American Experience in New Haven 
as a space where tradition lives on, 
where “one can still catch glimpses 
of the old neighborhood and imag­
ine it in its heyday.” When I inter­
viewed Calzetta at the Twin Pines 
Diner, I expected her to wax sen­
timental about Columbus’s role in 
Wooster Square’s Italian American 
tradition. But little sentimentality 
was detectable. She didn’t express 
passion for the neighborhood as 
an Italian American hub. Despite 
“enjoyment of the park” being 
the basis for the third claim of her 
lawsuit, Calzetta seems indifferent 
about the neighborhood. 
“It means nothing to me. As far 
as I'm concerned, Wooster Square 
contemporary, they cleaned up a 
major slum,” said Calzetta, refer­
encing an urban renewal project 
that rehabilitated the industrial 
area and uprooted Italian-Amer­
icans 
from 
Wooster 
Square. 
Addressing the square in the sec­
ond person, she said, “No, you’re 
not the center. You’re not better 
than anybody else.” According 
to Calzetta, Wooster Square is 
important mainly because it dis­
plays Italian-American culture to 
others. “[The statue’s] been there 
one hundred twenty years, and 
Chapel Street’s a main street. So 
you drive by, the statue’s there,” 
she said. Calzetta is not personally 
invested in Wooster Square nor its 
park—and perhaps her investment 
in Columbus isn’t personal, either. 
Thanks in part to the Colum­
bus myth, Italian Americans have 
been securely ratified as white for 
over half a century. Claims that 
Italian Americans face racism and 
discrimination in the twenty-first 
century, then, seem hopelessly out 
of date. But if their whiteness is no 
longer in danger, why do so many 
Italian Americans feel threatened 
by the reevaluation of Colum­
bus’s legacy and the removal of 
his monuments? Perhaps Cal­
zetta’s impersonal, unsentimental 
investment in Columbus provides 
a clue. “You drive by, the statue’s 
there.” Calzetta is more interested 
in imposing the symbolism of 
Columbus on others than in pre­
serving Columbus as a symbol of 
Italian American heritage. Colum­
bus no longer needs to symbolize 
inclusion; Italian Americans have 
firmly achieved it. Instead, he now 
seems to embody only the ugliness 
of his historical legacy—the preser­
vation of a white supremacist sta­
tus quo and a tradition of racialized 
violence. 


The day the Columbus statue 
was removed from Wooster Square 
Park, Norm Clement visited the 
park. A Confederate Quinnip­
iac Native and a member of the 
Penobscot tribe, Clement also 
serves as a community organizer, 

In New Haven and 
nationally, these 
Columbus-
centered fixtures 
helped reinforce 
convenient 
myths. But these 
myths had motive 
far greater than 
pride.



**Title: The Columbus Controversy in New Haven**
**Author: Nicole Dirks**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
activist, and elder on the land now 
referred to as New Haven—though 
New Haven, including Wooster 
Square, is the unceded territory 
of the Quinnipiac people. Clement­
had been protesting for the 
removal of the statue for a decade, 
so he showed up when he heard 
the statue was to be removed that 
day. There, in the middle of the 
first wave of COVID-19, he said 
an Italian-American counter-pro­
tester spat in Clement’s face. 
Clement 
describes 
his 
fight 
against the Columbus statue as a 
no-brainer: “The Columbus statue 
is representative of the beginning 
of colonialism—why wouldn’t we 
fight against that?...If you want 
to honor Italian Americans, then 
choose somebody else, somebody 
who represents you. Not a mass 
murderer and rapist.” And New 
Haven’s statue carries added sym­
bolism because the Knights of 
Columbus’s homebase is in New 
Haven—“that’s the organization 
that fought for and put up these 
statues across the country,” said 
Clement, and it’s also where the 
statue will soon reside.


Even though Clement and other 
advocates have fought against cel­
ebrations of Columbus for years, 
Elicker acknowledged only the 
recent initiative of “many leaders 
in the Italian Community” when 
the statue was removed. But this 
is unsurprising: at a recent Board 
of Alders meeting, Clement told 
me, only Italian-Americans were 
invited to express their perspec­
tive on Columbus’ legacy in New 
Haven. 

“The way the city has looked 
at it, the Italian Americans are a 
big voting bloc,” said Clement. 
“There's only a few of us Indige­
nous people here. And why is that? 
Because of Columbus.”


On the subject of the IAWGNH 
and the city officials in Bridgeport 
who voted to put back their statue, 
Clement said, “White supremacists 
are going kicking and screaming 
into the night. They don't want 
to give up any power. They're 
not going to give up any power 
without a fight, and then they'll 
manipulate and do whatever they 
can to regain that power.”


Columbus’s statue has generated 
more than a fight: it’s become a dis­
traction. For James Rawlings, the 
former President of the NAACP 
branch of New Haven, Chairman 
of the Connecticut Native Ameri­
can Intertribal Council, and tribal 
elder of the Wampanoag tribe, the 
persistence of debate over these 
monuments detracts from more 
present, 
consequential 
social, 
economic, and health inequities, 
especially during the COVID-19 
pandemic. He points to Secretary 
of the Interior Deb Haaland, the 
first Native American to serve in 
the Cabinet, whom he says is cre­
ating long-overdue change, espe­
cially in returning stolen land to 
Indigenous peoples. 


When the statue was removed 
from Wooster Square, Clement 
gathered Indigenous people from 
the area and reblessed the ground 
where the Columbus statue had 
stood. He doesn’t want to have 
to do it again, nor does he want 
to have to fight for the statue’s 
removal once more. But, he said, 
he would.

“It is tiring,” said Clement, 
followed by a long pause. “This 
government has been trying to 
erase us for 500 years. They hav­
en't done it yet, and they're never 
gonna do it. Our communities are 
under attack all the time...We still 
have to go through that every day. 
It's sad. When is it going to end?”


⭑ ⭑ ⭑

“Indicando la via al futuro,” or 
“Pointing the Way to the Future,” 
is the title of the monument that 
was chosen among artist sub­
missions for a statue to replace 
Columbus. Created by Marc-An­


A close-up of the statue's base, battered by time and the statue's removal.

thony Massaro, it depicts an Ital­
ian family, with a man at its helm 
and his son pointing to the hori­
zon—while two women of the 
family watch. It was chosen by the 
Wooster Square Monument Com­
mittee, which included Calzetta. 
Elicker assembled the group fol­
lowing the removal of Columbus 
to seek out a statue that would bet­
ter represent the Italian American 
experience. 


Calzetta hates it. “It’s disgust­
ing,” she said. “That is not the 
Italian American immigrant. ... It 
shows their lack of knowledge of 
the Italian culture, of the Italian 
immigrant experience, no knowl­
edge of art.” 


Calzetta says the statue depicts 
the two women as “very weak,” 
which she finds not only demean­
ing but also historically inaccu­
rate. The Columbus statue was not 
explicitly about women, according 
to Calzetta, so she found it more 
representative (though, unsurpris­
ingly, Columbus was not kind 
to women—for one, he regularly 
“gifted” Taíno women to his crew­
men to be beaten and raped). 


Other Italian Americans are 
dissatisfied with the statue. Vin­
cent Mauro Jr. is the chairman 
of the Democratic Party in New 
Haven, a former alder of Ward 8, 
which includes Wooster Square, 
and a 48-year-old second-gen­
eration Italian American. If he 
had it his way, Mauro wouldn’t 
pick Columbus to represent Ital­
ian-Americans—instead, he’d pick 
the kitchen table as a symbol for 
family and exchanging ideas and 
culture. 


Clement wishes he had been 
included 
in 
the 
discussions.“I 
would have liked if Indigenous 
people were invited to the table 
to decide what was going to go 
there,” he said. “[Mayor Elicker] 
decided that he was going to leave 
it up to the Italian American com­
munity.”


Rawlings 
proposes 
a 
more 
prominent location for a monu­
ment that honors Indigenous his­
tories—perhaps near City Hall. 


To put it bluntly, New Haven’s 
solution disappoints many people: 
the new monument’s symbolism is 
too much, not enough, and com­
pletely wrong, all at once. Perhaps 
the form of the monument itself is 
underestimated, or overlooked, as 
a limiting factor in this debate over 
public memory. Perhaps if we can 
think beyond the monument, we 
can reach a real solution. 


In addition to teaching, Profes­
sor Thomas Allen Harris makes 
films. His work explores the his­
torical narratives within families 
in relation to larger cultural shifts. 
One of his projects—first founded 
through the Digital Diaspora Fam­
ily Reunion, LLC, and then turned 
into the PBS series Family Pictures 
USA—focuses on inherited and 
collated family photo albums, and 
the relationship between personal 
family narratives and collective 
ones. Harris tours the country, 
summoning families from diverse 
backgrounds to slip on gloves and 
dive into photo archives of their 
ancestry. After interviewing about 
one hundred families, Harris com­
bined the narratives into an exhibit 
he calls a “shared family album.” 
His work proposes a new mode of 
documentation, historical think­
ing, and public memory.

“The family album is in some 
ways a kind of monument,” said 
Harris. “It's not really a monu­
ment, but it has in it this solution to 
understanding the complexity, the 
fullness and the diversity of who 
we are and who we've been. For 
me, it's really about moving the 
family album into the public space 
in a way that approximates or tries 
to engage in the space that monu­
ments would typically occupy.”


Harris’s interviews, especially 
those with families who have con­
nections to the Confederacy, often 
confront topics similar to those 
broached when discussing colonial 
monuments.

“I have people who come to me 
with pictures of Confederate fam­
ily members and history in their 
albums,” said Harris. “I create a 
space where they can come and 
share those [...] They don't have to 
have shame around that. That's part 
of the history. They could look at 
it squarely, and we can have honest 
conversations around the ambiva­
lence people might have.”


Monuments are predisposed to 
promoting a genre of historical 
thinking that parallels IAWGNH’s 
approach to Columbus: a singu­
lar, mythologized narrative that 
obscures history. To change this 
pattern, federal guidance might 
be necessary—instead of leaving it 
all up to city government to make 
(or reverse) monument decisions, 
which tend to prioritize wealthy 
and white groups’ concerns. But 
the monument problem will not be 
solved by just changing the figures 
and ideas that monuments repre­


To put it bluntly, 
New Haven’s solu­
tion disappoints 
many people: the 
new monument’s 
symbolism is too 
much, not enough, 
and completely 
wrong, all at once.

sent, nor  by adding plaques that 
gestures at historical, political, and 
social context. It’s about moving 
on from monuments altogether, 
toward other vessels that engage in 
other ways with their public, the 
present, and the truth. 


On June 24, 2020, once the 
Columbus statue was lifted from 
its granite base in Wooster Square, 
it was moved to the road and onto 
the open platform of a truck. It 
was an unfamiliar sight: Colum­
bus, embarrassingly, was smoth­
ered by ropes. Then the truck 
started to move, and all of the sud­
den, the monument was replaced 
by momentum; the symbolism 
transformed, at least momentarily, 
into performance art. Here was 
nuanced symbolism, embedded in 
its form an obvious context about 
both the statue’s present and past, 
and the product of a public re-en­
gaging with history. If a public 
representation of Columbus were 
to ever seem appropriate, then per­
haps this was it—for it was de-cen­
tered, defamed, and, most of all, 
fleeting. People cheered along the 
sides of the road when the statue 
came to them, and when it rolled 
away, they looked away. 

Nicole Dirks is a sophomore in 
Branford College and an Associate 
Editor of The New Journal.



**Title: WHERE HAVE ALL THE WEEKLIES GONE?**
**Author: Yonatan Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 34
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
I
n October 2021, the Atlantic 
ran a piece about Alden Glob­
al Capital’s ransacking of the 
American press. A pioneer in what 
has been called vulture capital­
ism, the Manhattan-based hedge 
fund had purchased the owning 
company of the Chicago Tribune in 
May of 2021. At the time of sale, 
Alden already owned roughly two 
hundred newspapers, many of 
them small-town publications that 
the fund proceeded to ruthlessly 
gut. With its recent purchase, Al­
den added to its spoils the Chicago 
Tribune, the Los Angeles Times, 
the New York Daily News, and six 
other publications. Two days after 
the sale, the staff of the Tribune, a 
quarter of whom wereas immedi­
ately laid off, was put to work in an 
obscure corner of the city. “Here 
was one of America’s most storied 
newspapers—a publication that had 
endorsed Abraham Lincoln and 
scooped the Treaty of Versailles, 
that had toppled political bosses 
and tangled with crooked mayors 
and collected dozens of Pulitzer 
Prizes—reduced to a newsroom the 
size of a Chipotle,” reporter McKay 
Coppins wrote.

Alden’s buyout of the Tribune 
was just one crisis in the long con­
flict between capital and journa­
lism. New Haven provides an illu­
minating case study. Included in 
Alden’s deal for the Tribune was a 
much smaller paper, New Haven’s 
very own Advocate—or at least a 
mutilated remnant of it. Founded 
in 1975 in an attempt to break out 
of the confines of the corporate 
newsroom, the New Haven Advo­
cate went through a long series 
of buyouts until it was dissolved 
into CTNow, a weekly aggregator 
of arts and culture events in the 
state. When Alden purchased the 
Tribune Company, the relatively 
obscure CTNow was part of the 
deal.
DESIGN BY SAVANNAH CRICHTON
WHERE 
HAVE ALL 
THE 
WEEKLIES 
GONE?
ALT-
The story of New Haven’s 
forty-year resistance to 
corporate media. 
by Yonatan Greenberg


---

JANUARY 2022
 35
How did the Advocate, a paper 
inspired by the anti-capitalist lea­
flets that nineteen-sixties stoners 
stapled together, end up absorbed 
by the conglomerate-behemoth 
Alden? The basic timeline is sim­
ple enough. In 1999, Advocate 
founder Geoffrey Robinson sold 
the paper to the Hartford Courant. 
The following year, the Courant’s 
parent company, Times-Mirror, 
was purchased by the Tribune 
Company for eight billion dollars. 
In May of 2021, Alden bought the 
Tribune company. Somewhere in 
the debris lay the disfigured corpse 
of the Advocate. Born in protest 
of to the atrocities of American 
capitalism and the lies spun by the 
mainstream media, the rebellious 
spirit of the Advocate would have 
to find a new home.

On an unseasonably warm day 
in late November, I walked east 
past the northern edge of the New 
Haven Green to learn more about 
the history of the Advocate. After­
noon threatened to turn into eve­
ning, and the setting sun caught 
the season’s last orange, yellow, 
and red leaves. Initially, I struggled 
to find the building I was looking 
for—51 Chapel Street, the current 
home of the New Haven Indepen­
dent, a locally-rooted non-profit 
newspaper that publishes exclusi­
vely online. Finally, I spotted 51 
in bronze lettering. The entryway 
sat between a high-end hat shop 
and Ferucci’s, an independent 
dress clothing es store. The block 
looked like it was frozen in the 
nineteen-fifties; as I crossed the 
street, I wondered if I might run 
into a twenty-year old Leonard 
Cohen. 

Up three flights of stairs, I 
found someone who came close 
enough: the Independent’s editor 
and founder, Paul Bass. Wearing 
a yellow t-shirt, a colorful yar­
mulke, and blue jeans that might 
generously be called fatherly, Bass 
carries himself with a humility 
that obscures his importance in 
New Haven’s journalistic lands­
cape. As I sat in his office and 
snacked on cannolis, Bass trea­
ted me to an hour-long history 
of New Haven journalism. He 
walked me through how a belo­
ved, city paper, anti-establishment 
to its core, inspired by anti-capita­
list leaflets of the nineteen-sixties 
was ultimately purchased by the 
vampires at Alden.

Exposure to the brutalities of Sou­
thern racism, the escalating war 
in Vietnam, and, most of all, the 
mandatory draft, fueled for youth 
of that generation a rage at esta­
blishment 
institutions—schools, 
government, 
newspapers—that 
no mainstream publication could 
temper. The underground press 
was given its name for its promo­
tion of drug use and legalization, 
but it was equally marked by a 
rebellion against the lies of Ame­
rican capitalism and their dissemi­
nation in major U.S. newspapers.

To better understand the coun­
ter-cultural presses of the nine­
teen-sixties and seventies, I spoke 
with Jim Sleeper, a retired profes­
sor of political science at Yale (and 
a former writer at the New Journal) 
who worked as a journalist in the 
nineteen-seventies. His baritone 
voice carried smoothly over the 
phone. He had a confidence and 
meter to his speech that reminded 
me of my grandfather, but instead 
of telling me stories about the les­
sons he learned in business school 
or his memory of 
‘We couldn’t help but 
make money’

Before Bass became the edi­
tor of the Independent, he wrote 
for and edited the Advocate. The 
paper was born as an alternative 
to the straight-laced newsroom 
of the Hartford Courant. However, 
the Advocate had its roots in what 
is now called the underground 
press 
of 
the 
nineteen-sixties. 
Paul Bass, founding editor of the New Haven 
Independent, sits in his Chapel Street office. Photo by Lukas Flippo.



 36
the founding of the state of Israel, 
Sleeper’s stories centered around 
his time in the nineteen-seventies 
counterculture.

Sleeper recalled his time as a 
graduate student at Harvard in 
the mid nineteen-seventies, when 
he would line up on Wednesday 
nights to pick up each week’s 
issue of the Village Voice, a paper 
born out of the same frustration 
with the mainstream press that 
helped birth the Advocate. By the 
nineteen-seventies, the rebellious 
spirit of the previous decade had 
partially dissipated, but an appe­
tite for news sources that rejec­
ted the inanities of the corporate 
press remained. The papers born 
from this nineteen-seventies tran­
sition period—the most famous of 
which was the Village Voice—are 
now referred to as “the alternative 
press.” These alternative weeklies 
retained much of the rebellious 
spirit of the previous decade but 
were run like small businesses. 
The Boston Phoenix, which Slee­
per wrote for, was one of these 
alternative weeklies. The Advo­
cate, for its part, was founded in 
1975 by two copy-editors at the 
Hartford Courant who, in Bass’ 
telling, were bored by the articles 
their paper was publishing. 
“The hippies and druggies 
were 
coming 
above 
ground 
in their lives,” Bass told me. 
“They’re buying homes, making 
a little more money. And I think 
the new alternative press reflec­
ted that. They were still anti-mi­
litary, they were still critical of 
establishment, 
especia­
lly the media, and they were 
very pro-drugs, but they were 
more above ground and they 
made their money from res­
taurant ads and sex ads. Espe­
cially sex ads.”. (In a eulogy 
for the Advocate Bass wrote 
in 2013, he quotes a friend 
asking him, “Don’t you feel 
like you’re wrapping the 
Talmud around a copy of 
Hustler?”)

I asked Bass how publi­
cations like the Advocate 
managed to retain their 
spirit of rebellion and 
independence while mee­
ting deadlines and gene­
rating enough income to 
stay afloat. Bass assured 
me there was never a pro­
A past cover of the Advocate, 
excerpted from Paul Bass’s “obit” 
in the Independent for the dead 
magazine. Photo courtesy of Paul 
Bass
blem—the alternative papers were 
beloved, and the mainstream press 
was loathed. “Even if the people 
running these papers were sto­
ned out of their mind, forgetting 
to pay the electricity bill, they 
couldn’t help but make money,” 
Bass said. 

One of the hallmark featu­
res of the independent press of 
those years was the writing style 
known now as “New Journalism.” 
In the underground and alterna­
tive press, commitment to objec­
tivity—a staple of the mainstream 
press—was seen as nothing but the 
mainstream media’s veneer for the 
corporate agenda that their papers 
pushed. “Capitalism is good, cor­
porate profits are good for the 
economy,” Bass told me, mimic­
king the one belief that mains­
tream journalism was not suppo­
sed to question.

New Journalism embraced a 
different philosophy. “You brou­
ght tools of fiction to how you 
write,” Bass said. “You develop 
character, you always make a 
point, and you don’t pretend to be 
objective.”

To Bass, the Advocate’s great 
popularity stemmed from the 
paper’s willingness to challenge 
the established norms of the 
day—drug culture was promoted, 
slumlords were exposed, private 
property was questioned. That, 
To Bass, the Advocate’s great popularity 
stemmed from the paper’s willingness to chal­
lenge the established norms of the day—drug 
culture was promoted, slumlords were exposed, 
private property was questioned. That, and 
they knew where the best restaurants were.



**The Rise and Fall of the New Haven Advocate**
**Author: Yonatan Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
JANUARY 2022
 37
and they knew where the best res­
taurants were. “Even though the 
front of the book was the news 
and the investigative pieces, peo­
ple of all backgrounds counted on 
it to know where to go out and 
have fun, wrestle with ideas about 
culture. It was fun, it was contro­
versial, it was wild.”

But the paper’s days of youth­
ful rebellion did not last. By the 
late nineteen-nineties, alternative 
weeklies “were making so much 
money, and their owners were 
getting older, that all over the 
country, big companies, mains­
tream corporate newsrooms, were 
buying these weeklies because they 
thought they were cash cows,” 
Bass said. In 1999, satisfied with 
the success of the paper he created, 
Advocate founder Geoff Robinson 
sold the paper to Times-Mirror, 
a major media conglomerate and 
the parent company of the Hart­
ford Courant—the paper Robinson 
and his colleague Edward Matys 
had abandoned in order to found 
the Advocate. Business-savvy as 
they may have seemed, the new 
owners “didn’t have the DNA of 
those founders, they didn’t exist 
to challenge established norms,” 
Bass said. These new owners were 
interested in cash and cash alone. 
To Bass, it was no surprise that the 
paper eventually tanked.

Mark Oppenheimer, now a 
lecturer in Yale’s English depart­
ment and coordinator of the Yale 
Journalism Initiative, served as an 
editor of the Advocate from 2004 
through 2006. “By the time I got 
there, you could no longer show 
up to work,” he pauses, “on subs­
tances. I think there was probably 
too much fear of lawsuits.”

Oppenheimer still found the 
Advocate a welcome change of 
pace from the Courant. Compa­
red with the three- hundred- per­
son newsroom at the Courant, the 
Advocate had a staff of roughly 
ten. “It was more like being part 
of an elite strike force, instead of 
having a boss, a deputy boss, and 
all that bureaucracy,” Oppenhei­
mer said.

The death of local newspapers, 
and the struggles of contempo­
rary journalism, are frequently 
blamed on the internet. Prior to 
the internet, a venue like Toad’s 
would have relied on advertising 
in papers such as the Advocate to 
reach their desired audience. With 
the rise of the internet, however, 
local businesses no longer nee­
ded the Advocate to reach their 
audience. The loss of ad revenue 
created a problem for the papers. 
Nevertheless, Bass insists that the 
issue that actually felled the Advo­
cate and similar papers was much 
simpler: they weren’t interesting 
anymore. 

said. “So, if you wrote a lede and it 
totally sucked, your editor would 
say, ‘What a great lede—how can 
we make it better?’ even though 
you misspelled everything and it 
was total crap.”

Unlike these papers, the New 
Haven Independent, founded in 
2005 and published exclusively 
online, has remained free of cor­
porate influence and, according 
to its editor, Bass, is committed 
to staying that way. Despite the 
inroads the corporate media has 
made into independent media in 
the past four decades, Bass remains 
confident that the Independent of 
today lives up to the best values of 
independent journalism. 

“I find that with the Indepen­
dent—I’m closer with my reader­
ship, I have the most diverse rea­
dership I’ve ever had, and it costs 
the least,” Bass said. “The ability 
to challenge corporate control and 
do independent media is by far 
greater than it’s ever been. The 
alt-weeklies were nothing com­
pared to what’s around now.” 

From perusing the Independent’s 
website or spending an afternoon 
in their office, no one would guess 
the paper’s roots in the alternative 
press. Today, Bass’s hair is short, 
and his office has an atmosphere 
of middle-class professionalism. A 
twenty-year old looking to rebel 
would do better to trip acid and 
burn an American flag than intern 
at the Independent. But, if today’s 
Independent 
might 
disappoint 
adrenaline-seeking college leftists, 
that’s not particularly surprising. 
It’s been forty years since Bass was 
twenty.


By the late nineties—once the 
Advocate had been bought by 
Times-Mirror—alternative 
wee­
klies were owned by “boring, 
corporate types—their main con­
cern was not getting sued,” Bass 


--- Page 38 ---

 38
**Connectic*nt Magazine**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

Connectic*nt
When I walked into their apart­
ment, Zoe Jensen and Mariana 
Plaez were sitting by their kitchen 
table. Overflowing with maga­
zine cutouts—text, images—the 
table was barely able to contain 
the scraps. I felt that if I sneezed 
too hard I might send the whole 
arrangement flying. There were 
only five days until their deadline, 
and they had lots of cutting, fol­
ding, gluing, and re-gluing ahead 
of them. 

Zoe Jensen and Mariana Palaez 
are two of the three editors of the 
recently-born Connectic*nt Maga­
zine. Spell- check can forget the 
red underline. Meant as “a love 
letter to the state of Connecti­
cut,” the zine was born as a reac­
tion against the dismissive attitude 
towards the state that Jensen and 
Palaez found obnoxiously com­
mon. “I know so many people 
that are just like Connecticut’s so 
lame, there’s no one cool in Con­
necticut, and a lot of these kids 
will move to New York or some­
thing like that because they have 
the means to do that,” Palaez said. 
Palaez herself was eager to escape 
the state when she graduated from 
high school. But she couldn’t 
afford Boston University, so she 
went to the University of Connec­
ticut instead. “And then I found 
cool people there!” Palaez said. 
“I’m like damn, there’s cool peo­
ple everywhere! But Connecticut 
just doesn’t get the love.” Jensen 
herself left Connecticut after high 
school to attend film school in Los 
Angeles, but came back a year and 
a half later. “I just missed this place 
too much,” she said.

In the zine, many of the sub­
missions are collages. It summons 
an elementary school era of simple 
joy, a time before pinging noti­
fications and round- the- clock 
stress, when it was perfectly natu­
ral to spend an afternoon cutting 
shapes out of magazines, gluing 
them together, and repeating. 

But the child-like play that goes 
into the zine doesn’t keep it from 
addressing issues worthy of atten­
tion. The magazine’s October 
issue featured a full-page graphic 
lampooning the University of 
Connecticut’s proclaimed com­
mitment to human rights. “Human 
rights is an interesting way to spell 
Imperialism,” muses the graphic. 
The page mentions the Univer­
sity’s partnerships with military 
contractors Lockheed Martin and 
Sikorsky and the school’s part­
nership with “the world’s biggest 
terrorist org (US military).” Deli­
vered without the self-seriousness 
of other publications, the charge 
hits hard. 

I asked if there had been any par­
ticular intention behind the vul­
garity in the magazine’s name. “I 
chose it because 
I thought it was 
funny,” Jen­
sen 
said, 
laughing. 
“I 
really 
just 
thou­
ght it would 
be a silly little 
thing for a few 
friends.” 

Now, 
with 
roughly 
1,500 copies sold 
and 
consistent 
interest from local 
advertisers, 
Jen­
sen and Palaez must 
come to terms with 
just how popular their 
zine has become.

Talking with Jen­
sen and Palaez, I con­
sidered the similarity 
between their zine and 
the underground press 
of the sixties. The edi­
tors bragged about how 
few conventions of newspaper 
creation they adhere to. “Fuck a 
style guide,” Palaez said, laughing. 
As editors, their main job is sim­
ply to select which submissions to 
include in a given issue. They’re 
not interested in fact-checking, 
or telling a contributor how to 
better word a sentence. Rea­
lly, they just want to create a 
low-stress medium for people to 
express whatever it is they do, or 
don’t, feel like saying. But, like 
the papers of the nineteen- sixties 
that preceded it, Connectic*nt has 
been very popular. I wondered if 
the zine’s promise of profitability 
might pique the interests of any 
aspiring business-owners. Jensen 
herself mentioned that she would 
love to work on Connectic*nt full-


--- Page 39 ---

A blood orange wearing a golden crown fills 
the cover of Connectic*nt's debut issue at left, 
published last July. Above, a recent collage from 
the magazine criticizes the financial influence of 
military contractors at the University of Con­
necticut. Photos courtesy of Connectic*nt.

**A Morning Egg in the Trumbull Dining Hall**
**Author: Phoebe Liu**
**Page number(s): 39**

ASIDE
A MORNING EGG 
IN THE TRUMBULL 
DINING HALL
BY PHOEBE LIU
Knock, knock. A crack. Tap. More cracks. Peel—an 
attempt, at least. I press the egg onto the table. The trans­
lucent white bounces back, just enough to let me know 
it’s there. I pick up a knife and cut into the egg, watching 
the deep yellow seep out. It’s inevitable. Kind of like my 
day. I’m wearing my hoodie with the hood all the way 
up so that it covers most of my face, and I’m letting my 
polka-dot pajama pants sag just enough to be embar­
rassing. As if no one can see me cutting open an egg in 
the dining hall every morning during the 9 a.m. lecture 
I never attend. I don’t want to think about it. So I salt, 
pepper, and swallow. When I leave, there are always five 
or so small shards of shell stuck to the table, to a napkin, or 
to the bottom of my shoe. I leave, walking on eggshells.
 39
time, if possible. 

In my conversation with Paul 
Bass, the editor was insistent that 
no tension exists between a maga­
zine’s profitability and its ability to 
generate thought-provoking con­
tent. Readers seek content that is 
stimulating and fresh, and adverti­
sers shell out the most for publica­
tions that readers love. Typically, 
decay at a newspaper results not 
from profitability itself but from 
the paper-pushers, HR consul­
tants, and money-grubbers that 
get hired later. 

In the rise and fall of publi­
cations, there is something of a 
life-cycle. Stories about the pre­
datory behavior of a company like 
Alden are undeniably troubling. 
Journalists at publications like the 
Tribune and the Advocate had life-
long careers overturned by a han­
dful of nihilistic venture capita­
lists. At the same time, the tedium 
of corporate media is precisely 
what has pushed writers and rea­
ders to seek out new platforms and 
styles of communication, both in 
the nineteen-seventies as well as 
today. While Alden chews on the 
charred remains of the publica­
tions it buys, the boring papers it 
will publish will give even greater 
incentive for writers to break new 
boundariess and attract readers in 
yet more powerful ways. 

Yonatan Greenberg is a junior in 
Saybrook College. 



**No Title Available**
**Author: No Author Available**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:

--- Page 40 ---
