Publication date: 09/09
Volume 42, Issue 1

**Title: I HAD HEARD ABOUT NOAH CHARNEY**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I HAD HEARD ABOUT NOAH CHARNEY long before I met him. His mother, Diane known, to her French students at Yale, as Madame Charnay often tells stories about her son, the novelist, the founder and director of a non-profit think tank, and, she says, the expert on art crime. I thought, based on our limited email interaction and a ubiquitous picture from a New York Times article, I would be able to recognize Noah when we met at a local New Haven bookstore. 

I arrived at Atticus slightly early for our meeting at half past noon. At 12:37, a tall man in his late-twenties with a shaved head and silver sunglasses walked in and asked for a dry cappuccino. His unbuttoned navy canvas blazer and slim, designer jeans gave him a distinctly European look too trendy for the average American out for Sunday brunch. He added a packet of turbinado sugar to his coffee and walked to the bookshelf labeled ''Art History." In the pictures I'd seen, Charney had chin length black hair tucked behind his ears revealing a high forehead and a short, reddish beard, but, I imagined, if he were dean-shaven, he would look something like this man. I walked towards him, 
14 
"Professor Charney?" He looked down at me over his sunglasses. "Sorry, no," said the fraud and exited onto the street. Five minutes later, with still no trace of the real professor, I too headed home. 

Noah Charney specializes in look-alikes and things that are missing. When we finally meet one week later, he is alternately sipping cappuccino and tugging at his beard as he tells me how he stumbled upon the field of art crime. In 2003, he was working on his first Master's degree and studying seventeenth-century Roman sculpture at London's Courtauld Institute of Art. At the same time, for fun, he began writing his first novel, The Art Thief, a mystery-thriller that begins with the disappearance of three paintings. While researching for the · book, which is based on historical thefts and has been criticized for being bogged down by facts, Charney says, "I found that the field was just wide open." With the exception of looting during the Second World War and illicit trade in antiquities, the subject is underdeveloped, especially in the subfields Charney focuses on: fine art theft, theft from exigency, and forgery. Since it is interdisciplinary equal parts art history and criminology scholars in related fields occasionally publish articles in the respected Journal of the International Foundation for Art Research (IFAR). Although the organization began in 1969 with the mission to prevent the circulation of forged and misappropriated art, today it focuses more on legal and ethical issues, like what should happen to the innocent collector who accidently purchases a stolen painting or sculpture. As far as the stolen art itself, only about 10 percent is recovered due to poor documentation of heists, an under-regulated market, and a lack of coordination between owners, dealers, and enforcement agencies. Charney, for his part, faults governments that do not take art crime seriously. While both the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Scotland Yard have dedicated teams, they are quite small thirteen and six respectively. Additionally, neither agency files art crimes separately from other stolen goods such as cars or electronics, which makes compiling data on such crimes onerous. According to Charney, "only the bureaucracy behind the Carabinieri Division for the Protection of Cultural Heritage provides praise-worthy support." Italy's preeminent team of over 300 agents


is also the busiest; more than 20,000 thefts are reported annually; Russia, with 2000, is a distant second. 

Charney trumpets sustained institutional support and research because, for this type of crime, he explains, "there is no Inspector Clouseau..." He pauses. "No, not him. I mean inspector Poirot," Agatha Christie's masterful detective. Instead, most stolen art is recovered through sting operations and obtaining information from criminal informants. Charney temporarily considered taking part in these operations. "It lasted two minutes," he laughs, explaining that the job requires such 9-5 conventions as having a boss and doing as you are told. 

Following orders has never been one of Charney's strengths. When Noah was two he took violin lessons at a Suzuki studio, which, according to his mother, was "a fiasco." His parents had enrolled him in the class shortly after the day he took two sticks, rubbed them together furiously, and proclaimed ''I'm violinning." But, explained his mother Diane, "Suzuki is made for kids who want to do what everyone else is doing, so Noah's sitting on the floor saying, 'I hate music'" and refusing to play. Two years later, in an attempt at reverse-psychology, his parents told him they wanted him to study piano in order to con him into taking cello. It worked. 

September 2009 Over the course o a less than a month, the thie , a 53,.-year-old heroin · addict, stole 39 pieces o art vm New Haven businesses, galleries, and the New Haven Free Public Li-brary by hiding them under his clothes. 

The elder Charneys, Diane and her husband Jim, were serious musicians in their own right he had studied at Interlochen and Julliard and she at Eastman. Although the family lived in New Haven, Noah describes his parents as Europhiles who delighted in "Euro-style imports farmers markets, restaurants, and certain types of furniture" and travelled across the Atlantic whenever possible. When Noah was a toddler, the family began making annual summer pilgrimages to a chateau in the Loire Valley, where his mother taught a Choate Rosemary Hall summer course. Twelve years later, after Diane began teaching at Yale, Noah, then himself a student at Choate, embarked on his own summer-session trip to the Continent. It was then that he decided he wanted to live in Europe forever. "It was just a matter of how to do it logistically," he says. 

At Colby College, Noah spent two semesters in Europe, one in Paris and one in London. In England, he studied playwriting and formed a punk-rock band for which he wrote the songs and lyrics, sang, and played rhythm guitar. They recorded albums "in their dorm rooms, played bars and _called themselves The Jump Into ("Into what?" he asked the friend who came up with the name. "That's exactly the point," she said). The band fell apart as its members graduated, which, in 2002, drove Charney back to England and towards his childhood dream of becoming Indiana Jones (the topic, incidentally, of his college application essay), solving historical mysteries and making fantastic discoveries. Archeology, however, required too much dirty work, "brushing off," and "attention to the nitty-gritty." Plus, it didn"t provide enough potential to make discoveries. He looked instead to art. To Noah, works of art are giant visual puzzles that he delights in trying to solve. For his second Master's thesis, Noah wrote an interpretation of Bronzino's ''An Allegory with Venus and Cupid", his favorite painting. It is one of the approximately forty works with little consensus among art historians about its underlying meaning. His own mystery, The Art Thief, was published in 2007, two years after Charney moved to Cambridge to begin work on a doctorate in art crime, the first, he claims, of its kind. Along with a new television show currently in development, Noah believes the book portrays art crime in a way that makes it "something both a taxi driver and a professor would find interesting." Noah emphasizes the importance of accessibility of information about art crime, explaining that its portrayal in popular media, especially film, is inaccurate. Movies often portray the criminal art collector "the man in a three piece suit with a pink bowtie, a monocle: the Planters peanut guy" which, Charney says, has not existed outside of dramatic cliche since World War II. "Ordinary art thieves are unglamorous." They are mostly "thugs" hired on a one-time contract and told what and how to steal, mostly "street criminals who would steal a car one day and mug someone the next," and learn about crime mostly "at the movies." In the absence of Doctor No-esque masterminds, most art crime is carried out 15