Publication date: October 29, 1967
Volume: one
Issue number: two


**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors: Gerald Bruck, Daniel Yergin
- Business Manager: Peter Yaeger
- Designer: Ronald Gross
- Photography Editor: Herman Hong
- Associate Editor: Paul Malamud
- Associate Business Manager: Jeffrey Pollock
- Classified Manager: William M. Burstein
- Copy Editor: Wm. Clay Howe


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- 'Tis Pity - A. B. Giamatti
- Report from the Graduate School - Michael Lerner
- Fat Bernie - David Freeman
- Lady Bird at Yale - Daniel Yergin and Mopsey Strange Kennedy
- The Tragedy of Richard Lee: a Letter and a Reply
- Art - William Mitchell
- Letter from Berkeley - John D. Elliott


**Title: 'Tis Pity**
**Author: A. B. Giamatti**
**Page number(s): 2**

'Tis Pity

As everyone must know by now, John 
Ford's 'Tis Pity She's A Whore concerns 
the incestuous love between a brother, 
Giovanni, and his sister Annabella. The 
point to the incest, however, is that it 
provides a way of talking about the 
necessity to make desperate private 
choices in a world where there are no 
common public values. And such a world 
is the Parma which surrounds the 
lovers, where ruthless Soranzo sues and 
eventually wins AnnabeUa's hand, where 
Hippolita, rejected by Soranzo, plots his 
death with his servant Vasques, who 
then betrays her; where Bergetto, a 
ridiculous fop, is murdered by Grimaldi, 
another suitor of Annabella, as Bergetto 
goes to marry the niece of Richardetto, 
who is actually Hippolita's cuckolded 
husband, presumed dead and now re-
turned in the guise of a doctor. The 
public world is, in short, one of disease 
in its double sense of sickness and of 
unrest, where all public institutions, like 
the Church, and public ceremonies, like 
feasts and marriages, are corrupt and 
meaningless. The soul of the body politic 
has been rotted by the "leprosy of lust,'' 
and the city is a humming corpse. 


The play depends for its success upon 
our acceptance of Giovanni's and 
Annabella's love in this monstrous 
world. For if the lovers do not somehow 
win us and our admiration, then there 
is no tragedy of isolated individuals 
frantically dreaming of wholeness (the 
play speaks of "wholesome"-ness and 
"holiness") while surrounded by decay. 
Because on one hand, the incestuous 
lovers are certainly not the angels they 
would like to be or think they are, while 
on the other they must &e allowed to 
earn our sympathy, the tone and balance 
of Ford's play are both extremely 
delicate. If they are mishandled, we are 
left not with pathos but with mere 
pathology and murky, bloody bombast. 


The production opening night (Octo-
ber 16) by the professional Yale Reper-
tory Company, under the direction of 
Kenneth Haigh, was disappointing 
chiefly because this focus was blurred 
throughout. We were never really given 
any clear cut reason to be more inter-
ested in the lovers than in their squalid 
surroundings. There were some glim-
mers, but what resulted finally was a 
fitful spectacle which did not have any 
sense of pace until late in the evening. 
By then one's most vivid impression was 
of a shouting match, often to no point. 


Mr. Haigh, who is a distinguished actor, 
made his directing debut with this pro-
duction, and the direction had an actor's 
hand. Instead of a developed, or develop-
ing, point of view or any discernible 
rhythm in the play, there was obvious 
attention lavished upon scenes as discrete 
units and upon actors as individuals. 
There was also, as there should have 
been, an actor's emphasis upon the verse, 
with little action, fewer props, not much 
business. People were brought out, lined 
up and made to speak. This necessary 
and proper emphasis had mixed results. 


In some cases, it elicited very fine 
individual performances, but several 
polished performances do not make 
a play, any more than several good lines 
make a poem. In other cases, one felt 
Mr. Haigh had gone to great effort to 
graft the style necessary for this kind of 
verse where there was no friendly host. 
To do this kind of play requires extraor-
dinary control of voice and of body, a 
kind of discipline not everyone had. 


The chief offender, unfortunately, was 
the male lead. Giovanni should attract 
us despite the fact he is lustful, wilful, 
selfish and a demon of energy. But as 
played by Richard Jordan, he did not. 
Giovanni's anguished sophistry became 
petulance; and his self-assertive mastery 
of his fate, a series of tantrums. Mr. 
Jordan opened the play at a peak neither 
he nor anyone else could sustain or 
surpass, and there was no place to go. He 
raced through ttte lines as if they were 
after him, usually at the top of his voice. 
There is in acting a crucial distinction 
between volume and intensity. The 
power of a line is not necessarily 
enhanced by saying it louder. 


Because of her unforced repentance 
and her constant concern for her brother, 
Annabella is naturally a more sym-
pathetic character than Giovanni: in 
many ways her acceptance of their fate 
at the end is more impressive than his 
assertions of control over it. As 
Annabella, Kathleen Widdoes seemed ill 
at ease and unsure in the beginning, 
and this partially accounted for the lack 
of fire in the all-important wooing 
scene between Giovanni and Annabella. 
In the second part, however, when the 
play, and the pace, picked up, Anna-
bella's fierce constancy to what she 
thinks or hopes she has found in her 
brother's love came through. 


In the last scene between brother and 
sister, Miss Widdoes and Mr. Jordan 
were very good. There the proper tone 
of genuine devotion in the midst of 
treachery and sham was caught. We were 
finally made to realize what we should 
have been aware of all along-that these 
people are somehow different, that a 
great price must be paid to win a private 
peace from a public world where the 
norm is war. The success of this scene, 
one of the best in the production, 
may have been partly the result of the 
fact both actors were sitting down. They 
no longer had to contend with the steeply 
raked stage and the treacherous pyra-
mids on either side over which everyone 
was forced to scramble throughout. In 
that last scene, Giovanni and Annabella 
could concentrate on each other and not 
on their footing. 


In many ways, the set was an image 
of the whole production. Like the pro-
duction, it had some fine individual 
qualities: the seams of the great beetling 
copper cubes seemed to drip, and if 
molten gold is a feature of Hell, as the 
Friar has it, then Parma seemed visually 
hellish indeed. Again, like the direction, 
the set put the emphasis on the verse, 
for the raked stage and the what-ever-
they-were to right and left drastically re-
duced the playing area and the actors: 
freedom of movement, emphasizing the 
language with those mixed results. Fi-
nally, the set, with its profusion of 
arches, stairways, doorways, platforms 
and slopes mirrored the production's 
own confusion, its lack of a controlling 
point of view, which was manifested 
particularly in the vague and muddled 
treatment of the lovers. The lack of a 
firm vision of what the play was about 
was generally reflected in the set and 
costumes, which were mod-futuristic. I 
know this kind of thing is meant to 
release the action from seventeenth 
century Parma, and make it "timeless," 
or relevant to our day, as they say. But I 
don't believe this notion-it is basically 
a gimmick which always indicates that 
someone has no faith in a great play's 
capacity to be relevant or timeless in its 
own terms. It always means someone has 
made a simple-minded equation, or con-
fusion, between universal and modern. 


For the past year or so, we have 
been sternly shepherded out of the 
valleys and plains of The Old Way and 
up the Professional Mountain, urged 
always to look upwards and watch the 
stars. Those who have strayed have 
been dealt with smartly. From my 
position at the back of the flock, I 
would say we had not yet quite reached 
the top. But we are getting there. Be-
cause this production, for all its 
unevenness in tone and over-all con-
ception, does stimulate and quicken 
you. What one of his contemporaries 
caJied Ford's "purer language" is all 
there before you, and it does oftentimes 
catch fire and glow, at once thickening 
and purifying the atmosphere of Parma. 


Though everyone's list ':Viii differ, I 
recommend to you the performances 
of John Karlen, whose control of the 
verse and of himself brought the right 
cutting edge to the seething, vicious 
and finally deeply wounded Soranzo, 
and of Paul Mann who was appro-
priately, and appealingly, weak and 
patient, hopeful and overwhelmed as 
the Friar. Particularly good was Tom 
Rosqui who caught the insidious and in-
different brutality and casual corruption 
of Vasques with great ease and skill. 
This Spaniard, pleased to overgo the 
Italians in satanic arts, was the most 
polished performance of them all. 


Almost equally as impressive, however, 
was Lydia Fisher's portrayal of 
Hippolita. Miss Fisher played the lusty, 
intriguing ex-paramour of Soranzo with 
understanding and assurance and real 
range. The most powerful scene of the 
production on opening night was the 
one between Miss Fisher and Mr. Rosqui 
where Hippolita and Vasques use each 
other in ways which make it clear how 
everyone in Parma, with the exception 
of Annabella, is a whore. 


Miss Fisher is not a professional; she 
is a second year drama student, two 
years out of high school. Perhaps she is 
the most convincing proof of the Dean's 
contention that the students will best 
learn by watching professionals. On the 
other hand, perhaps she supports the 
conviction that those students who have 
the art born in them deserve the Uni-
versity stage. But, then, all this, gentles, 
is matter for another day. Go see the girl. 

-A. B. Giamatti 
Asst. Professor of En&lish



**Title: Report from the Graduate School**
**Author: Michael Lerner**
**Page number(s): 3**

Death at an Early Age: 
Report from 
the Graduate School 

By Michael Lerner

"My ima.ge of graduate school is of a 
long period of semi-consciousness ... 
of a state approaching death," a second-
year graduate student in history told 
me when I had been at the Graduate 
School three days.


The first lecture I heard was on 
Aristotle's Politics. At the end of the 
hour the professor asked for questions. 
The only question was: "How far do 
you expect us to be in the Politics next 
week, sir?"


The professor stroked his busby black 
beard. "You know that's the whole 
problem. You ask what you are expected 
to do, and I can't blame you. You've got 
the pressure of a dozen other assign-
ments. You can't read the Politics that 
way. You should be able to read it and 
think about it, and then follow up a 
passage that interests you, or a theme 
you think runs through it, in half a 
dozen other books. I know if I don't 
assign you anything, if I leave you to do 
what you want, half of you won't do 
anything. And you know, I'm beginning 
not to give a damn."


That teacher, who managed to touch 
some students, left Yale. In political 
science, philosophy, psychology, and 
history-to name only the cases I know 
of-teachers who were able to excite 
their students about learning have failed 
to meet the criteria of their departments. 
They were not "solid" enough or bad 
not published enough or had published 
the wrong things.


Most graduate students accept these 
dismissals as they accept the other 
indignities foisted on them in the name 
of academic procedure. They accept 
because their capacity for critical think-
ing has been channelled into snippy 
commentaries on some aspect of The 
Literature in their discipline.


Because there is no freely critical 
group of students and faculty the 
Graduate School has fallen into the 
patterns afflicting graduate education 
across the country. Like the graduate 
schools of less fortunate universities, it 
bas become a knowledge factory proces-
sing students who roll down a conveyor 
belt past work stations where professors 
screw on their specialized irrelevancies. 
The quality control at the end of the belt 
is purely a test of whether the chrome 
is well secured, before Yale gives its 
prestigious 500,000 words or seven years 
(whichever comes first) warranty.


By letting the Graduate School drift 
into what it bas become, letting it do what 
it does to graduate students, Yale is 
failing the students and society. The 
students are pressed into truncated molds 
that leave little room for their develop-
ment as individuals or as teachers. The 
society which supports the Graduate 
School is deprived of a fair return on its 
investment.


What follows are sketches, from the 
limited perspective of a graduate student 
in the political science department, of 
some of the shortcomings in graduate 
school life. What is wrong with the 
formal training the school offers? What 
is wrong with the life its students lead? 
What is wrong with the relationship 
between those students--social scientists 
MICHAEL LERNER is a second-year 
graduale student in political science at 
Yale. He has reported for The Washing-
ton Post from Brazil and Israel and 
contributed to the Atlantic MonthJy. 




**Title: [Untitled]**
**Author: [Unattributed]**
**Page number(s): [4-5]**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
4 1 The New Journal I October 29, 1967 
in the case I look at-and the surround-
ing society? 

When you ask graduate students if 
they like what they are doing few say yes 
with enthusiasm. The majority appear 
resigned, apathetic, and faintly depressed 
by the content of their training. "I look 
at graduate school as a five-year chore 
I have to do to get my union card," a 
student from the Midwest said. "Then 
I hope I can say screw the whole 
system. But it's as though they were 
after you all the time. It's hard not 
to get sucked in." 

Some students have suggestions for 
change. A large number do not want to 
question what and how they are taught. 
"I'm not an activist," a girl from New 
Jersey shrugged. "I want to go through 
here and that's it." 

The apathy in part is a character trait 
of the kind of people attracted to the 
socially marginal, secure, increasingly 
remunerative life of a tenured professor. 
It is reinforced, however, by the training 
students receive at the Graduate School. 
Students often begin their graduate ap-
prenticeship with enthusiasm about 
working on the edges of knowledge in 
their field. When they are handed half 
a dozen bibliographies and recognize 
anew the patterns that put them to sleep 
as undergraduates, the enthusiasm rarely 
lasts. 

They acquire the academic vocabulary 
of their department which usually be-
comes a sloppy disguise for simple 
thoughts. 

They learn what it is they will actually 
need to know. A political science 
student, for instance, needs a crude 
notion of the theories of ten or fifteen 
men who presently enjoy a reputation at 
Yale. There is no point immersing one-
self in the thinking of one man because 
you will only be able to talk about him 
for one hour, at the most, on general 
examinations. 

What the Graduate School really 
fosters in its students is a sort of Time 
magazine approach to knowledge: 
Establishment-biased outlines of any 
subject in the field studded with vivid bits 
of detail that hint at vast memorized 
resources. 

These values are reflected in the 
admiration students reserve for profes-
sors with prodigious memories for every-
thing written in their specialty. The 
capacity to refer to every relevant article 
in The Literature is certainly useful. But 
it helps the professor avoid thoughtful 
response to the question a student asks. 
Nonetheless the student is impressed 
when the professor refers him to six 
articles related to his question and cites 
the review, volume number, year, and 
page references from memory. How 
easily academics forget the marginality 
of this cramming for creative thinking. 
Hobbes once said if be had read as many 
books as one of his contemporaries be 
would have been as great a fool. Too 
frequently in graduate school the pos-
session of a Polaroid mind marks a man 
for tenure. 

Whether or not the student remembers 
what he reads, the force feeding has a 
devastating effect on his capacity to react. 
When be is asked to read a book, an 
article presenting a counter-thesis, and 
a critique of the counter-thesis his own 
critical faculties are often numbed. 

Because of the incredible explosion in 
the number of books and articles and 
new periodicals appearing each year, the 
task of trying to master a field grows 
more time-consuming, anxiety-provok-
ing, and impractical. Yale has failed to 
consider how this explosion affects the 
scholarly goals it sets graduate students. 

Work has been done on setting up 
information-retrieval systems, but the 
problem of reorienting the student and 
examining how much he can handle 
fruitfully and how he should use his time 
has not been faced here head-on. 

Instead of facing this difficult issue the 
Graduate School seems content to slide 
along, pushing more and more informa-
tion at the students, adjusting only (and 
barely) the examinations to the reality 
of what a student can absorb. Few people 
are thinking concentratedly about the 
consequence of this drift for the students' 
creativity and for the kind of total lives 
graduate students live while they are 
at Yale. 

The graduate student is not materially 
pathetic. He survives well on his fellow-
ship--though this is not the case, for 
example, in the Drama School-and be 
is headed for a career which offers 
travelling grants, sabbaticals, long vaca-
tions, decent pay, and extraordinary 
security once he has tenure. 

Graduate students are impoverished 
in a more personal sense. 

Get up in the morning, read the New 
York Times. Go to the library and read 
or worry about not reading. Go to one or 
two seminars. Go home and read Time 
or Newsweek. Have dinner and read, 
or worry about not reading. At 9:30 go 
to the movie, then go home and study. 

The graduate student is deprived by 
his life style of the use of his senses. He 
is encouraged to adopt a psychic stance 
that allows for few human commitments 
and direct emotions. His time drains 
into endless and usually fruitless read-
ing, mile after mile of the printed line. 

One forgets what an unreal world 
the graduate student inhabits. He is a 
pathfinder or pathseeker in a countryside 
where the landmarks are not ridges or 
trees-not even people and real events-
but key articles in The Literature. 

He rarely fights to influence what his 
country does to itself or the world. The 
human intercourse he knows best is the 
perverse interaction between defensive 
and often ino;ecure men that ~es place 
around a seminar table. 

He rarely works on the Hill or with 
children or for Mayor Lee. He is actually 
suspect if he writes plain English for a 
mass circulation publication to tell 
people what he has learned in his years 
of study-although later this may be 
regarded as an acceptable eccentricity if 
he first establishes himself as a great man 
within his discipline. 

There are exceptions-students work-
ing in Students for a Democratic Society, 
Upward Bound, or one of the more con-
servative community service organiza-
tions. 

But most students shrink from com-
mitting time to the community because 
they feel they are robbing it from their 
reading. They spend free time furtively-
m front of a television or at the movies. 
So they complete the cycle by ensuring 
that all contact with the outside world 
is mediated. It is a thoroughly second-
hand life, and the institution that shapes 
it-Yale Graduate School with its re-
quirements and pressures--shares 
responsibility with the graduate students 
for what it is. 


---

5 I The New Journal! October 29, 1967 
One of the strongest pressures toward 
passivity results from the structure of 
relationships graduate school imposes on 
its inmates. 

Professors call us Mister X and we 
call them Mister too. But we say Mister 
with a different inflection. If they know 
us well they call us John or George. 
If we know them well we call them 
Mister. But they call each other by their 
first names and we call each other by 
our first names so behind the Misters at 
the seminar table are modes of behavior 
unchanged since grade school. 

If a professor three years older than 
you is foolish in class you cannot point 
that out to him. He can indicate your 
failings to you. This may be natural with 
a teacher fifty years old and a student 
who is fifteen. But what of a professor 
who is thirty and a "boy" who is twenty-
six? The appellations are just a symptom: 
the true problem is the continuation of 
grade-school relationships years past 
the point where they are appropriate. 

This training in dependency bolsters 
a deference to authority in graduate 
students that does not easily coexist with 
the capacity to make vigorous social 
criticism. 

We get used to--in fact we learn to 
thrive in and only in-the boundaries 
of these relationships. Then as we are 
assigned the status of teacher we find 
students assuming deferential attitudes 
toward us, and we assume the teacher's 
role. 

The best teachers break through these 
forms and talk to a student as one man 
to another. The only deference comes 
from a desire to hear a man who has 
something to say. But this requires effort 
from both teacher and student. Rarely 
do these efforts meet. 

So teaching becomes the observance of 
forms: you are a professor, then \each 
me. You talk and I listen. I know I have 
to learn what you say, you know you 
have to say something. By what magic 
does a graduate student who has listened 
endlessly to men and books, expected to 
reject nothing (he may be tested on 
anything), become a professor with 
something to share with his students? 
Not by the training be undergoes in 
graduate school. 

It would be conceit to believe the 
quality of a graduate student's life is 
the crucial failing of the Yale Graduate 
School. The graduate student lives 
better in every sense than the majority 
of New Haven residents. The real ques-
tion is what the Graduate School con-
tributes to changing-this ugly state of 
affairs in the city and in the nation. 

The answer, it seems to me, is that 
v.JeGraduate School makes shockingly 
little contribution to any community, 
whether local or national, and that part 
of the reason is that graduate students 
~xperience so little of what participation 
m a community means. 

Yale lacks community for graduate 
students even in the minimal sense that 
~arvard (or the city of Cambridge) with 
•ts heterosexually more balanced and 
~ially more fluid population provides 
•t. The failure of communications be-
tween graduate students in different 
ingrown departments at Yale is 
astounding. 

As an example, political scientists 
room together, go to parties together, 
eat together, quote Almond and Verba 
(a text) to each other. Their jokes are 
pitiful attempts to relate their technical 
vocabularies to everyday experiences-
and in the attempt lies the humor. 

Friendships and parties much more 
rarely cross departmental lines than at 
many other universities-partly because 
of the absence of girls, partly because 
Yale has no meeting places such as a 
congenial coffee house or bar where 
graduate students draw together. 

The impoverished inner community 
means students have few opportunities 
to begin, in little ways, to organize in 
order to influence the surroundings that 
shape their lives. Many graduates of 
course recapture in later life the capacity 
of integrating their academic and social 
lives. But in far too many cases the habit 
of inactivity does lasting damage. 

There are a few signs of stirring. Grad-
uate students in history are concerned 
about the reasons Staughton Lynd did 
not get tenure and have organized a ma-
ture petition for inquiry. Students for a 
Democratic Society has organized anew 
with new life. 

But SDS is not predominantly oriented 
toward university reform, much less 
graduate school reform. And the specific-
issue oriented organizations rarely reach 
beyond the boundaries of one depart-
ment. 

Yet there are reforms that should be 
made at Yale Graduate School which 
will probably not be made unless the 
graduate community discovers and then 
voices common interests in organized 
fashion. 

The most socially urgent reform is 
needed in the social sciences. Advanced 
students of society at Yale do little to 
make the country they study a better 
place to live. That should be their highest 
calling, really. They barely consider it 
a calling at all. Social progress in con-
crete terms seems to be conceived of as 
a "spin-off" from social science, just as 
a new color television tube is usually 
spin-off from military or space research. 

Action-oriented college graduates go 
to the law schools, not the graduate 
schools. The double presumption is that 
Jaw school will at least teach them how 
to get things done while social sciences 
will offer few indications of what is 
worth doing. 

The potential value of some social 
science research to the action-oriented is 
substantial. Hidden in the political 
science literature alone are the empirical 
groundings for suggestions about 
electoral reform, urban government. 
decision-making rationality and many 
other things. But since these books so 
frequently refer to views and problems 
of The Literature, their practical con-
sequences must often be inferred. And 
even these suggestions are hidden from 
all but the initiate. 

Why is The Literature itself not aimed 
more directly at social problems? Why 
does effecting their solution appear so 
marginal to most of the work in social 
science? This seems partly a consequence 
of the reward structure that has evolved 
in the social sciences at Yale and that 
Yale now tolerates. 

Students enter graduatQ training in 
political science, for example, expecting 
careers either in academics or as gov-
ernment technicians. Their choice of 
courses and dissertations as well as their 
habits of thinking is influenced by their 
anxieties for success in the career line 
they choose. 

If they want to succeed in the educa-
tion industry they should choose 
expanding fields, work with influential 
professors whose esteem is essential to 
fellowships and teaching jobs, and write 
a dissertation that will become an 
academically respectable first book. 

If they want to be government 
technicians they need courses in areas 
where Washington needs experts-on 
Africa, Asia, urban problems, and 
defense. They should work under pro-
fessors with Washington connections, 
spend their summers in government jobs, 
and-above all-write their dissertations 
on "tough-minded" and politically 
respectable topics. 

The trouble is that the problems this 
country needs to solve are neither 
academically neat nor politically 
respectable. 

They fall into a no-man's land: too 
large, controversial, and methodolog-
ically unmanageable for the ambitious 
academic; too risky for the ambitious 
technician. 

These problems are left for the 
academically untrained and naive to 
confront, which hardly means they will 
be handled better. For although the 
analysis of American pathologies may 
strain a social scientist's tools up to and 
past the breaking point, he is still better 
equipped to deal with their difficulties 
than people who do not see the difficulties 
clearly. 

The problem is to transfer the pseudo-
objectivity born of fear of involvement 
back to the area of the analysis where 
true social objectivity belongs. Then the 
social scientist needs the courage to make 
explicit and to publicize the conse-
quences his analysis suggests. 

The case of the social sciences-in 
which reorganization of concerns and re-
wards is so pressing-is only one ex-
ample of an area where students at Yale 
Graduate School could change things if 
they involved themselves in their educa-
tion. The faculty is by no means uni-
formly opposed to change. There may 
be more discontent among faculty than 
among students, for faculty members 
are closer to that position of despair 
from which it becomes clear how 
uneducational so much of the "educa-
tional process" is. 

Some of these suggestions may ring 
true. Others may not. One person 
carrying a graduate school load cannot 
make a good survey of what is wrong and 
what changes should be made. 

It does seem certain that our lives 
at Yale are not as worthwhile as they 
should be. And what we offer the society 
in return for the fellowships--or simply 
as educated citizens-bears no relation-
ship to what we should offer. 

To do something about these problems 
it would be necessary to organize across 
departmental lines, through the graduate 
department clubs whose officers could 
hold some exploratory meetings or 
through ad hoc departmental committees 
if the graduate club officers are un-
interested. 

Study groups could be set up to 
examine specific departmental problems 
and to discover whether some grievances 
are more widely shared. Ultimately 
common grievances with the profes-
sional schools at Yale and with the 
undergraduates could be explored. 

But mostly the emphasis should be on 
re-forming the content of graduate 
school life. The only way we can do 
that, if we care to, is to work together. 



**Title: Fat Bernie**
**Author: David Freeman**
**Page number(s): [6]**

61 The New Journal I October 29, 1967 
Fat Bernie 
By David Freeman 
DA VJD FREEMAN is Lawrence 
Langer Fellow in playwriting in the 
Drama School. 
"The day of the Broadway column is 
over. Interest today is in the cultural 
scene: good theater, good music, the 
galleries, and the new cinema." 
-The Times 
"The name of the game is still 
entertainment." 
-Fat Bernie 

Bernie Gersten-known to the trade as 
Fat Bernie the Gossip Broker, the best 
columns plugger in the business--starts 
each morning repeating the daily routine 
he has followed for the last nine years. 
Next to his bed on a long wooden 
table, he keeps his column items--
Bernie's joys--stacked in orderly rows, 
typed three to a sheet: 
"Judy Garland sobbing on the phone 
to me from Hollywood ('They fired 
me ... why could they be so cruel to 
my children and me. G--damn them, 
it stinks!') was one of my saddest 
experiences as a reporter. Judy is at the 
end of her financial rope now. We 
were all moved." 

Over such items are pencilled dates and 
the names of gossip columnists. For 
instance, above the Garland item: 
"Wilson June 7, Winch. June 8, Boyle 
June 10." So far no takers for Judy's 
despair. 

Fat Bernie first lifts himself out of 
bed, puts on his blue silk robe, sips his 
morning coffee and begins to route his 
items. He examines each stack of what's 
gone where and who's seen what. Fat 
Bernie, who could never waste an item, 
sees that each reject gets another chance. 
Fat Bernie is fat. He looks like a 
slightly modified Joseph E. Levine, and 
at 225 pounds and 5'6", he is so large 
that be waddles. He has a huge neck, with 
what's left of black hair curled down 
over the back and sides of his head. 
If Fat Bernie Gersten· did not exist, 
Damon Runyon would have invented 
him. 

There is only one faint incongruity in 
the Guys and Dolls routine, and that's 
Bernie's speech. Although he has a heavy 
New York accent (born in Newark, N.J.), 
Bernie is educated (B.S. CCNY) and 
sounds it. 

Bernie Gersten has no regular clients, 
and he gets no retainers. He works on a 
strictly freelance basis for the press 
agents and the public relations firms 
handling the big stars which, though they 
cannot be bothered with the nuisance 
of daily gossip columnists, nonetheless 
have clients who like to see their names 
in daily print. 

Bernie Gersten receives a flat rate of 
$8 for a client's name mentioned in 
any of the New York gossip columns, 
except for Earl Wilson's column, which 
has the largest syndication and for which 
Bernie gets $10. Obviously, when Fat 
Bernie can "build a pyramid"-that is, 
cram two or three names into one item-
he can make a lot of money. 

Most major New York restaurants, 
as well as the stars, depend on public 
relations firms to keep their names before 
the public. Most of the firms farm out 
their restaurants to Bernie along with 
the celebrities: 
"Carol Channing, resting from her 
chores as femme lead in the B'way 
smash Hello Dolly quipped to close 
friend Woody Allen at Max's Kansas 
City last night: 'If you don't learn 
to write, nobody'll ever be able to 
read your picket sign'." 

That item, placed in Ed Sullivan's 
New York Daily News column, "Little 
Old New York," netted Fat Bernie $28 
-$12 from Solters and Sabinson who 
represent Miss Channing and Hello 
Dolly (Bernie charges $4 for a Broadway 
play when mentioned with a star's 
name, or $6 for the show's title alone); 
$8 covered Woody Allen, charged to 
John Springer and Associates; the last 
$8 was from Bill Doll and Associates 
who represent Max. 

The demise of the World Journal 
Tribune had its effect on a great many 
New Yorkers. It most certainly affected 
Bernie Gersten. Without the Trib, Bernie 
has only three major papers to work 
with in Manhattan. "Of course, there's 
always the out-of-town papers--Kup 
always takes stuff (Chicago Sun-Times' 
Irv Kupcinet) but it's not the same--
the whole thing is for the benefit of the 
stars-and face it, your typical star 
just doesn't give a damn about the Sun." 

Fat Bernie is also skeptical of maga-
zines: "For one thing they don't break 
the stuff for two or three months, and 
it's impossible to keep track of-1 can't 
afford to tie up one item for two or three 
months. If a piece doesn't hit, I've got 
to know right away and re-route it." 

Bernie never throws anything out. 
Aside from the table stacked with 
column notes, his apartment is literally 
filled with stacks of old magazines and 
back issues of newspapers from all over 
the country, as well as stacks of notes 
and theater programs. 

After Bernie spends his hour or two 
routing items, he reads the day's papers. 
He first carefully reads each of the gossip 
columns: there are seven in the New 
York papers that he services regularly, 
and another nine for which he often 
claims bills. Fat Bernie frequently 
identifies as many as ten items that he 
has planted in a single morning, which 
explains how he can earn up to $30,000 
a year. 

Fat Bernie bases most but not all of 
his items in fact-"Most people don't 
believe most of what they read in the 
columns-they just like to read about 
stars, whether it's true or not." 

The columnists on whom Bernie 
depends for his livelihood are, however, 
more interested in facts. They frequently 
call a restaurant to find out if Tony 
Randall was indeed there on the previous 
evening eating the chefs Ottopode al 
Forno. The restaurants, however, have 
learned that if they deny the presence of 
a star they are quickly dropped from 
Fat Bernie's beat and from the columns. 

After checking the columns, Bernie 
turns to his black accountant's book, 
in which be records the fruits of the 
previous day, then relaxes and leisurely 
reads the entire Post of the preceding 
evening and then glances through the 
News. He only bothers with the Times-
no gossip columnists-on Sunday. 

Although he has not had particularly 
good luck with Lewis Funke's "News of 
the Rialto" (Broadway) or Abe Weiler's 
film notes in the Sunday Times, he keeps 
trying, and he does break items there 
occasionally. Bernie feels that the class 
of the Times is worth the effort. 

After Bernie has routed his items, 
done his accounts and read the papers, 
he rises up again and puts on a white-
on-white shirt with collar points that 
droop almost to his waist, and selects a 



**Fat Bernie: A Broadway Legend**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
71 The New Journal I October 29, 1967 
silk suit from a closet full of silk suits. He 
is now ready to begin his rounds, hunting 
for items. 

He always carries a reporter's pad 
and an Old Fashioned drinking glass in 
a black briefcase. The pad is to jot down 
what he calls "Gotham gossip." The 
glass is to hold. Bernie spends his days 
in bars and restaurants, and finds that 
if he's not careful, he's drunk by 5 in 
the afternoon and poorer the next day 
when doing his accounts. He eats at 
moderately-priced restaurants, but 
spends his working day in Sardi's, 21, 
The Colony and the like. 

He has discovered that if he takes his 
glass out of his briefcase and holds it 
when he enters a restaurant, bartenders 
leave him alone and friendly customers 
do not insist that he have another drink. 

Although Bernie prefers to work in 
New York-going from restaurant to 
restaurant keeping his eye and ear 
attuned to the stars, meeting the press 
agents and courting the columnists, be 
occasionally works on out-of-town 
projects. One item that has become 
near apocryphal on Broadway is the 
result of Bernie's finagling. It also 
provides a glimpse into Bernie's sense 
of ethics about the creation of news. 

When Broadway producer David 
Merrick was to travel to upstate New 
York (near Poland, N.Y.) to open a 
county fair, Bernie bet Harvey Sabin-
son, Merrick's press agent, that he could 
turn the event into a column item; 
Wilson, Lyons and company, being 
none too enchanted with the notion of 
the Poland, N.Y., County Fair, turned 
it down flat. 

Bernie, after contemplation, learned 
of the existence of a small and obscure 
tribe of Shawnee Indians living outside 
of Poland. Fat Bernie called the chief 
(whose name be cannot recall) and told 
him of Merrick's impending visit. 

Bernie suggested that the Shawnees 
make Merrick an honorary blood 
brother. Bernie promised the chief a 
great deal of publicity for the event, 
which he pointed out would be good for 
their souvenir business. The Shawnees 
not only delivered, but made Merrick 
Brother Blwan-Biwan-Pum, which 
translated means Collector of Wampum. 

The event made all the columns, with a 
headline in Lyons and Wilson-at $20 
per headline, which Sabinson personally 
matched, as the loser of the wager. 

In general, if the event actually 
occurred, no matter what the circum-
stances, Fat Bernie does not consider 
any item the least shady: "It happened, 
didn't it? Just because I had the chutzpah 
to call that Indian doesn't mean it didn't 
really happen. It's not like I made it up." 

On the other hand, Bernie is acutely 
aware of the dangers, both ethical and 
practical, in concocting items: "People 
are always suspicious, you got to be 
careful. The agents don't care, but if 
the stars read rigged plants they call 
the columns. It's crazy, they just cut their 
own throats, but that's the way it is." 

Fat Bernie doesn't keep a real office. 
If he's not working out of his apartment 
or a restaurant or bar, he'll use the offices 
of the producers and press agents for 
whom he freelances. 

Blaine-Thompson, the ad agency that 
handles most of Broadway's advertising, 
k~ps a special desk for him on opening 
DJghts. After any Broadway opening, 
the producer and the ad men gather in 
Blaine-Thompson's, located in the Sardi's 
building, to comb the advance copy of 
the reviews to make up those huge quote 
ads that fill the pages of the New York 
Times. 

As they labor, Fat Bernie sits to one 
side batting out column notes about the 
show. When he's completed three or 
four separate items (each a paragraph in 
length-although they are frequently cut 
to seven or eight words in the paper), 
he rips the sheet from the typewriter, 
careful to tear the bottom edge ("ifs got 
to look hot-even if I wrote it yesterday, 
it's got to look hot") and moves breath-
lessly downstairs into Sardi's main dining 
room, where he begins his hunt, a subtle 
thing. 

As he enters Sardi's, he takes a casual 
look around the room, to spot Earl 
Wilson, Leonard Lyons, Hal Boyle, 
Jack O'Brian, Florabel Muir, Winchell 
and the others. 

His prime target is Wilson, and if 
Wilson sees Bernie going first to O'Brian, 
Wilson will be upset. Bernie can't allow 
that; Wilson must get the first crack at 
the items. ("In the old days it used to be 
Winchell. Nobody reads Winchell any-
more, today it's all Wilson.") 

U Wilson hesitates, Bernie has a 
choice. He can leave the item with him 
for a day to let him decide and thereby 
take it out of circulation, but gain 
Wilson's favor (of vital importance), or 
he can demand that Wilson say yes or 
no on the spot, and if it's a no, move on 
to Lyons, Boyle or Florabel. 

The problem is not to infuriate any of 
the writers by making them feel last on 
his list. This is no easy trick, when there 
are frequently three or four of them 
sitting within 25 feet of each other, and 
all acutely aware of Fat Bernie's pres-
ence. Bernie must operate diplomatically 
and table hop with agility. 

In Sardi's, they're used to him so that 
he doesn't have to pull out his Old 
Fashioned glass. 

He's still standing at the door, waiting 
for Boyle to move away from Wilson so 
that he can make his first move. Boyle 
moves away and Bernie moves in. 

Wilson is sitting by the wall, watching 
a room full of stars and almost-stars. 
"Earl, I see you for a moment?" 
"Hi Bernie, whatta you got?" 
"Exclusive to you. Warren Beatty's 
getting married. You want it?" 

Fat Bernie pats his pocket as he 
speaks, indicating that the item-ripped 
and stuffed into an envelope-with more 
details is available; he's careful not to 
wave the envelope, conscious that at least 
one or two other writers are watching 
the conversation. Wilson thinks for a 
moment, surveys the room, stirs his 
drink. 

"Who's Beatty marrying?" 
"Don't know yet. Follow-up tomor-
row, I hope." 

Now Wilson thinks that Fat Bernie 
is trying to parlay the item into a number 
of placements-ten bucks for the first 
Beatty announcement, and another ten 
the next day when the woman's name is 
announced. Or maybe Bernie only rep-
resents Beatty for the moment and is 
trying to line up the girl's press agent 
before be places her name. 

"I can use it Wednesday," Wilson 
finally says. 

Bernie thinks for a moment-by 
Wednesday the item will be public 
information, no longer of value to him. 
Or maybe Wilson has another lead on 
the item. Bernie knows he's struck out 
with Wilson and prepares to move on to 
Lyons. 

The problem now is that Bernie must 
move fast. He's given Wilson the lead 
on an item, and that means there's no 
longer an exclusive on it. Wilson could 
dig up the information on his own, and 
then break it after Bernie has given it as 
an exclusive to Lyons or Florabel. 

He moves to Lyons. 
"Len, got something for you." 
"What?" 

Lyons never looks at Bernie, he keeps 
his eyes trained on the crowd. 
"Warren Beatty's getting married. 
You want it?" 
"Who to?" 
"Don't know." 
"How long can I have it?" 
"Tonight. It's hot." 
"I don't think so, maybe Wednesday." 
"I'll be back, I got more for later." 
"OK." 
"See.you, Len." 

Fat Bernie moves away from Lyons 
with an eye out for Boyle. Boyle's already 
talking to one of the legmen from the 
office that represents Beatty. 

News is out, Bernie has to work fast. 
He turns away from Boyle. Don't be 
seen noticing . .. hang on to exclusive. 
He moves toward the center of the 
crowd, working fast. Find one ... place 
it quick. 

Flora bel Muir is roaming around. 
F/orabel'/1 do. 
"Florabel, honey, I got to talk with 
you." 
"You look like somebody's getting 
married." 

Bernie smiles. "You want it?" 
"Who else has it?" 
"Nobody from me. Can you use it 
tomorrow?" 
"Who is it?" 

Fat Bernie hesitates, glances around 
the room, senses that he's about to lose 
ttie item, and moves in for the kill. 
"Tomorrow, honey, yes or no?" 
"Wonderful." 
"Warren Beatty. An actress, in his next 
picture-names still a see-key." 
''Thanks, dear, maybe I'll use it." 

Fat Bernie hands Florabel the en-
velope, a little crumbled from his 
pocket. Florabel floats away, and Fat 
Bernie spots Jack O'Brian heading his 
way. Bernie doesn't notice him, and 
ducks back to the elevator. He beads for 
Sardi's side door and out into the alley. 
A small note about the routing of the 
Warren Beatty piece in his notebook, 
and Fat Bernie lurches toward the Stage 
Delicatessen and a pastrami sandwich. 


**Lady Bird at Yale: A Question of Taste**
**Author: Daniel Yergin and Mopsey Strange Kennedy**
**Page number(s): 8, 9**

81 The New Journal! October 29, 1967 
Lady Bird at Yale: 
A Question of Taste 
By Daniel Yergin and 
Mopsey Strange Kennedy 
John O'Leary, jammed back into his 
chair with his feet up on the desk, 
discounted the possibility that the 
Provos would pull down their pants in 
Beinecke Plaza to protest the War 
during Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson's visit to 
Yale. It was late the night before the 
visit; and O'Leary, the president of the 
Political Union, was trying to determine 
whether the Political. Union's intensive 
membership campaign had netted 750 or 
850 members so that he could tell . 
Commons how much roast beef to 
prepare. 

O'Leary had been hearing for almost 
a week that radical protestors would try 
to break up Mrs. Johnson's speech to 
the Political Union in Commons, but as 
he shoved the membership lists aside, 
he was confident. 

"It would be a disaster for the Uni-
versity and for us if there was a tasteless 
demonstration," he allowed, "but there's 
every indication that .we can count on 
Yale people to act tastefully, like gentle-
men." 

The next afternoon in Heinecke Plaza, 
Buddy Berkson, one of the organizers of 
the demonstration, anxiously watched 
the .first arrivals. "It's ludicrous to talk 
about beautification now," he said, 
"when we're dropping more bombs in a 
day than the entire number dropped 
sometime during World War II. Napalm 
-we're killing people, and it's an absurd 
kind of taste to talk about beautification." 

Variations on the word "taste" were 
everywhere during Mrs. Johnson's visit. 
Even the Secret Service men, who kept 
steel eyes on everything and who never 
hesitated to shove iron-hard forearms 
into someone's stomach, were described 
as tasteful. 

The same words, but two different 
languages-that was the story of Mrs. 
Johnson's visit to Yale on Monday, Octo-
ber 9. Mrs. Johnson, inside Commons 
with the television, press, and a press 
secretary to spark spontaneous standing 
ovations. Demonstrators outside, want-
ing to be moderate and so doing nothing 
more than staring up at a war monument 
and above that to the names of World 
War I battles carved around the top of 
the Commons. Mrs. Johnson inside, talk-
ing about beauty, speaking with her hus-
band's flat missionary rhetoric about 
improving the planet; and a thin blonde 
girl outside, holding a tiny sign: "Lady 
Bird Beautifies I While Lyndon Bombs." 

The Yale Political Union was modeled 
on Oxford's Union, but has for a num-
ber of years been Yale's answer to ward 
politics, lacking as it has any sense of 
issues. In the last year or two it bas be-
come more of a forum for politicians and 
public officials. O'Leary has been active 
in this. Last summer, while working for 
his Congressman in Washington, 
O'Leary sent out a flurry of invitations to 
public officials. 

One of the invitations went to Mrs. 
Lyndon B. Johnson. O'Leary, impressed 
that the First Lady was becoming so 
publicly involved with an issue like 
beautification and conservation, asked 
her to address the Union on her work. 

A few days after sending the invita-
tion, he received a phone call from Liz 
Carpenter, an ex-Texas-newspaper-
woman who's tough like a tree stump and 
who is Mrs. Johnson's secretary. 

Mrs. Carpenter asked O'Leary exactly 
what the Political Union was, and then 
some other questions. A few days later, 
she called again to ask O'Leary to 
White House tea with Mrs. Johnson. 

So O'Leary found himself sitting down 
with Mrs. Johnson, her beautification 
adviser, and three cups of tea in the 
sitting room of the Lincoln Bedroom. 

"Mrs. Johnson was a terribly charm-
ing person, really warm," O'Leary 
recalled later. "It's amazing how the 
Texas style doesn't come over so well 
publicly, but there's just so much 
sincerity and warmth to that person." 

While they sipped tea O'Leary and the 
President's wife discussed the New 
Haven riots. Mrs. Johnson recollected 
how, three years before, she had toured 
New Haven with Mayor Lee, visiting 
new schools. She was deeply, personally 
concerned about the riots. She said it 
was hard to understand why such things 
occur. Then Mrs. Johnson asked some 
more questions about the Yale Political 
Union. O'Leary, who knew that she 
gives few public speeches, reassured her 
about the Yale Political Union. Mrs. 
Johnson turned to her beautification 
adviser and asked, "Well, what do you 
think?" The adviser pointed out that 
garden clubs and forestry schools were 
getting dull, noted the advantages of 
speaking to the Yale Political Union, and 
recommended she accept. Mrs. Johnson 
ended the half-hour tea by tentatively 
agreeing to appear. The beautification 
adviser then gave O'Leary a tour of the 
White House, but they had to whisper 
because the President was napping. 

In the first week of September O'Leary 
received another call from Liz Carpen-
ter, who said to hold open the .first half of 
the week of October 9. O'Leary im-
mediately put in a call to Henry (Sam) 
Chauncey, special assistant to President 
Brewster. Chauncey became contact 
man between Yale Administration and 
National Administration. 

Mrs. Carpenter came up to Yale twice, 
the first time to make arrangements, 
the second time to see the Political 
Union in action. What she saw was the 
film of Theodore White's "The Making 
of the President 1960." Two days later, 
during the screening of "The Making of 
the President 1964," O'Leary strode to 
the podium and said "I wish to announce 
that the First Lady of the United States 
will address the Union on Monday, 
October 9." The applause was wild. 

The following Tuesday was the 
weekly luncheon of the Aurelian Honor 
Society, a senior-class luncheon club for 
windy student leaders and some of the 
better-known campus good guys, along 
with a string of faculty members. 

Among those sitting at one table were 
the Rev. WilliamS. Coffin, always open 
to a demonstration; Steve Weisman, 
who was to find himself one of the 
three main organizers of the demonstra-
tion; Yale Literary Magazine Chairman 
Bill Lydgate, who would help on a 
secondary level; and Strobe Talbott, 
News chairman, who would endorse the 
sincerity of the demonstrators in an 
editorial. Someone at the table said it 
would be too bad to let Mrs. Johnson's 
visit pass without some demonstration. 

Everyone agreed it was a good idea, 
although no one was quite sure how to 
organize a demonstration that was 
tasteful, that was somehow, well, Yale. 

Coffin thought for a ·moment and 
suddenly became inspired. "Picture this," 
he said excitedly. "We get everybody 
to fast instead of eating dinner. They 
assemble by the thousands while 
Mrs. Johnson is inside dining with the 
Political Union. When their meeting is 
over, we get Brewster to bring her out 
to greet the protesting thousands, on 
either side of her, and receive a petition 
asking for a bombing halt. It'll be 
sensational." 

Everyone at the table thought this was 
a good idea, too, though there was some 
doubt that Brewster would agree, despite 
a Coffin scheme to threaten the Presi-
dent of Yale with pickets at his house if 
he did not co-operate. 

Buddy Berkson, student editor of the 
Michigan Daily for two years and 
general secretary of the United States 
Student Press Association before trans-
ferring to Yale, joined in from another 
table. No one felt able to spare the time 
for an extra-curricular demonstration. 

Lydgate and Weisman agreed to look 
into it, however, and in a conversation 
later in the day with Talbott at the News 
building, they decided that Michael 
Mandelbaum, a senior from Berkeley, 
California, who wants to write political 
science "for the masses," would be 
perfect. 

Weisman phoned Mandelbaum later 
and told him the news. Mandelbaum also 
thought the demonstration would be a 
good idea, but wanted to phone some 
others before agreeing to take on the 
responsibility. The decision was post-
poned. 

That Tuesday night, Students for a 
Democratic Society (SDS) held its orga-
nizational meeting. More than 125 at-
tended, and some one stood up to say 
that they couldn't let the opportunity of 
Lady Bird's visit pass. A steering 
committee to plan a demonstration was 
formed. 

Wednesday: Weisman spoke to 
Howard Shrobe, an SDS leader, who 
said that SDS would be staging a 
demonstration, but hadn't decided on 
specifics. Shrobe predicted they might 
attempt to break into Commons or just 
picket outside the Brewster home, where 
Mrs. Johnson would be staying. 

Weisman's first thought was to let SDS 
handle the demonstration, since that was 
what they knew how to do best. He 
offered to help Shrobe get campus 
endorsement for a silent demonstration, 
but Shrobe simply informed him that 
SDS would do what SDS wanted. If 
Weisman wanted to support their action, 
that was up to him. 

Matters became more complicated 
when Nick Herman, a senior who is bead 
of the Dwight Hall Campus Council, 
appeared in Weisman's room that after-
noon to say that Coffin had told 
Herman to seek him out since he was 
organizing a demonstration. Weisman 
was surprised. Herman proposed-in 
place of a demonstration, which might 
be construed as being rude to the First 
Lady-an opinion poll to prove that no 
one likes the war. Weisman, Herman, 
Mandelbaum, Berkson and Talbott 
arranged to meet for lunch the next day 
to make final plans. 

Thursday: The Secret Service men be-
gan arriving to comb through all of 
Freshman Commons and to investigate 
dining hall employees and to fingerprint 
other Yale people who would have 
contact, or near-contact, or no contact 
with Mrs. Johnson. Rumors that a group 
of Yale Provos would try some wild 
demonstration were beginning to 
circulate. 

At lunch in the Trumbull College 

9j The New Journal I October 29, 1967 
Dining Hall, Herman again proposed 
his opinion poll. None of the others 
liked it, and when they returned to 
Mandelbaum's room to continue their 
planning, Herman did not accompany 
them. The night before, Mandelbaum 
and Berkson had drafted a statement 
which was to become the basis for an 
advertisement in the Yale Daily News. 

That night, the SDS steering com-
mittee met at the home of law student 
Mark Tushnet. They agreed to picket 
the Brewster home and then join any 
larger demonstration and co-operate at 
least until the end of the demonstration. 

Friday: Petitioning for the moderates. 
In the afternoon Weisman received a 
call that Sam Chauncey, Brewster's 
assistant, wanted to see him, and be 
chugged across campus to Woodbridge 
Hall and ran up the steps and inside. 

Kingman Brewster, he discovered, was 
staring at the door from the top of the 
stairs. 

Brewster explained that he doesn't 
always stare at the door but that be was 
waiting for one more Yale Corporation 
member to arrive so that they could 
begin their monthly meeting. Weisman 
continued on to Chauncey's office, where 
he found Talbott of the News already 
arrived. They first discussed with 
Chauncey his position on the Red Sox, 
and then got around to the demonstra-
tion. Chauncey was cagey. He explained 
that Mrs. Johnson would probably enter 
Freshman Commons through Beinecke 
Plaza. Therefore, said Chauncey, the 
Secret Service would probably rope off 
a walkway for her so that her path could 
not be obstructed. Weisman and Talbott 
thought that was a good idea. The con-
versation concluded with a treatment of 
the dining hall coat-and-tie regulations. 

Saturday: The moderates hastily col-
lected petitions that had been signed at 
most of the residential colleges, but 
usually during only one meal. They were 
not able to reach graduate students, but 
they were overwhelmed at the response. 
They typed each name on an index card 
for alphabetizing purposes and dis-
covered they had obtained 600 names in 
practically no time. Many people, even 
jocks and right-wingers, had told them 
that this was the first petition they had 
been able, or had felt compelled to 
sign. 

Mandelbaum, Weisman and Berkson 
became more convinced that the mod-
erate approach was paying off. 

Sunday: The day before the visit, they 
met and decided that the best form of 
demonstration would be non-demonstra-
tive-that is, a 40-minute assembly with 
a ten-minute period of silence at the end. 

Later that evening 75 seniors walked 
out of a hall at Williams College while 
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson was speaking. 

At about the same time, SDS was finish-
ing its sign making. Weisman was 
arranging for the advertisement in 
Monday's Yale Daily News. Berkson and 
Mandelbaum drafted another statement, 
to be distributed to protestors explaining 
why there would be no speeches and 
why the ten minutes of absolute silence 
Would be appropriate. O'Leary was 
sitting in his office figuring out if the 
Yale Political Union had 750 or 850 
members. Buddy Berkson received word 
that a senior in Branford had been 
scrawling "Sweep foreign policy clean 
· · . bring a broom" on their posters. 

Berkson phoned the scrawler, who be-
came very angry when Berkson told 
him that they did not want any physical 
demonstrations. Lady Bird wasn't wel-
come, and she deserved no courtesy, said 
the scrawler. Berkson could understand 
how he felt. 

The next afternoon was one of 
shifting, uneasy greys that threatened a 
rain. The wind was whipping through 
the trees. The President's house, five 
stories of brick, seemed strange and quiet 
with the policemen around, as if some 
magnate were quietly dying within. 

Time itself seemed immaterial, and it 
could have just as easily been another 
age, with servants bustling about to 
welcome the young master home from 
the Civil War, or to make it ready for a 
visit by President Taft. 

One hundred people, mostly from 
SDS, many with signs, were standing on 
the Hillhouse curb, across the street 
from the Brewster home. Only a few had 
been there when Brewster himself had 
driven up; he bad talked briefly to a 
Negro picketer who was protesting what 
he said was discriminatory hiring by 
Yale. Most of the rest had come just 
shortly before 2:30, when Mrs. Johnson 
was due to arrive. The New Haven cops 
had pushed them across the street and 
had tried to make them disperse, but 
Brewster had come out twice to prevent 
that. The thin blonde girl was there with 
her small sign: "Lady Bird Beautifies I 
While Lyndon Bombs." A group of 
newspaper and television reporters were 
talking to the crowd. One of Mrs. 
Johnson's press secretaries, who had 
come up earlier, stomped over to some 
of the press and told them that the story 
was Mrs. Johnson's speaking at Yale, 
and not this demonstration, and then she 
stomped back into the house. 

All of Brewster's staff had been issued 
small orange buttons for identification, 
something like those used by charity 
campaigns. There was a control unit in 
the basement, and the Brewsters had 
turned their one television set over to 
the Secret Service men who were joined 
by Sam Chauncey, in watching the 
World Series in the basement. Yale 
Security Director John Powell main-
tained constant contact with campus 
police stationed around the house so that 
he could inform them of the last-
minute decision on whether Mrs. 
Johnson would drive in the back gate or 
come in from the front. 

Sometime shortly before 3:30, they 
decided on the front, and soon Mrs. 
Johnson drove up in a Continental with 
her secretary and mastermind, stumpy 
Liz Carpenter. The car stopped at the 
curb, and Mrs. Johnson got out, wearing 
an overwhelmingly red coat and looking 
younger and prettier than anyone had 
expected. The Brewsters came down the 
steps to meet her. A path opened 
through picketers who had crossed the 
street to the Brewsters' side. Mrs. John-
son walked past them with less attention 
than she would pay to a patch of rhodo-
dendrons. The Brewsters greeted her 
formally, and they all went into the 
house. 

Mrs. Johnson was nervous about the 
speech, after her experience at Williams. 
Brewster, sensing that she wanted re-
assurance, reassured her about Yale, that 
all things were under control, that rude-
ness does not occur at Yale. 

Mrs. Johnson went upstairs to her 
room for a nap. The curtains had already 
been closed, so that she could not see 



**Title: Lady Bird at Yale**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10 I The New Journal! October 29, 1967 
John O'Leary: He played politics 
Liz Carpenter: She played rough 
Mike Mandelbaum: He played straight 
Sam Chauncey: He played secret agent 
the demonstrators. But to make sure 
that no one outside could identify which 
was her room, the Secret Service also 
closed the curtains in another room. 
Downstairs one of the Secret Service 
men looked out the window at a sign that 
said "Chirp ... Chirp ... Lady Bird" 
and asked President Brewster, "I wonder 
if that sign is derogatory." Brewster 
asked for binoculars to read the pickets' 
signs, tried, but then gave it up. 
Mrs. Johnson had brought along a 
girl to help with her clothes, but no 
hairdresser. So, after her nap, New 
Haven hairdresser Michael Snurkowski 
was sent in. His bags were checked, and 
he was questioned on each landing, and 
when it became clear that in fact he was 
the right man, the Secret Service men, 
who knew among other things that it 
was the hairdresser's birthday, sent him 
up to the top floor. Michael could see in 
Mrs. Johnson's eyes that she was busi-
nesslike and could probably be very cold, 
but he found that in this case she was 
"warm, humorous, and congenial." 
Mrs. Johnson said she'd like to come 
back sometime and spend a day without 
a schedule of any kind, just wandering 
around New Haven. Mrs. Johnson also 
said that she did not like teased hair. 
Michael thought she was remarkably 
pretty if perhaps a bit self-conscious 
about her nose, and afterwards said, 
"Anyone who had the time to study her 
face for a while could really do wonders 
with her." 
While Mrs. Johnson was laughing with 
Michael, Buddy Berkson, on his way to 
the printing press in Jonathan Edwards 
College to pick up the leaflets for 
Beinecke Plaza, was thinking to himself 
If this thing comes off, it'll be incredible 
... If SDS just keeps its mouth shut. 
At 5:00, the SDS pickets regrouped 
and marched up to the Brewster home. 
Mrs. Johnson was supposed to arrive at 
Freshman Commons at six, but 
Chauncey had asked O'Leary of the 
Political Union to come earlier, so that 
Mrs. Johnson could avoid pickets. Also, 
it had been decided to bring her in 
through the College and Grove entrance 
to Woolsey Hall and Commons to avoid 
Beinecke Plaza demonstrators. 
About a quarter before six, the 
Brewsters left their house, and drove 
around the block to Woolsey Hlll. They 
waited for Mrs. Johnson in the rotunda 
of the hall, from which a door leads to 
Freshman Commons. 
Chauncey was standing in the center 
of the rotunda, looking like a knowledge-
able Secret Service man. Next to him 
was Liz Carpenter, Mrs. Johnson's 
secretary. 
"Mr. Chauncey ... " a reporter began. 
''This is Mrs. Carpenter," said 
Chauncey, edging away to a better 
position from which to keep his eyes and 
ears open for anything. 
"Where you from, honey?" asked 
Mrs. Carpenter. 
"From a publication here on campus." 
"Well, here, you take this." Mrs. Car-
penter handed over a mimeographed 
copy of Mrs. Johnson's speech and then 
turned and headed for Commons. 
The reporter ran after Mrs. Carpenter 
and explained that he was also covering 
Mrs. Johnson as a stringer for two major 
newspapers. He had hit the forward 
button on a Texas tape recorder. 
"Mrs. Johnson had just a perfect 
vagabond day," said Mrs. Carpenter. 
"She stopped at a Shaker village, and had 
a picnic lunch by the roadside, and just 
three-and-a-half hours of being a perfect 
vagabond, which she seldom gets to do. 
She didn't have any deadlines to meet." 
"Why is Mrs. Johnson here?'' 
"She gives few speeches, you know, 
but she thinks improvement of our 
country deserves to be on the academic 
agenda, and it's so good that students 
here at Yale are interested." 
"What about those demonstrators? 
Did Mrs. Johnson see them, does sh'e 
know they're there, do they bother her?" 
"Mrs. Johnson has respect for every 
point of view, but I'll tell you this, no 
one is working harder at peace than the 
man who is our President." 
At that moment the SDS pickets out-
side the President's house were conclud-
ing that Mrs. Johnson had escaped out 
the back gate of the Brewster home. 
They started running down Hillhouse 
Avenue to intercept her. As they stam-
peded off Mrs. Johnson was hustled into 
her car from the side of the Brewster's 
house and out the driveway. The 
picketers swiveled back, almost as a 
body, but the car zoomed away, and so 
they swiveled again and resumed their 
race around the corner to Woolsey. 
Sam Chauncey, from his new vantage 
point at the main door of Woolsey, saw 
the car approaching. He also saw the first 
of the SDS pickets coming around the 
corner. 
''Where's Kingman?" he said. 
"Here," said Brewster, standing by 
himself one doorway over. ''Where's 
Mary Louise?" 
Mrs. Brewster stepped forward and 
the Brewsters repeated their down-the-
steps routine again, welcoming Mrs. 
Johnson to the intersection of College 
and Grove. 
They all stopped for pictures in the 
rotunda and then walked on into Com-
mons, pressed upon by photographers, 
who in turn were pressed upon by eager 
Political Union members. Secret Agent 
Sam Chauncey stood in the doorway, 
keeping an eye on everything. 
Five hundred people were standing in 
Beinecke Plaza as Mrs. Johnson entered 
Commons from the other side. There 
were only a few placards. One was a 
picture of a napalm-mutilated Viet-
namese girl with the caption-"U.S. 
Beautification." A few representatives 
of the High School Anti-Communist 
League held up pro-war posters on the 
Beinecke Library wall in front of 
Commons. The blonde girl had arrived 
with her frail sign: "Lady Bird Beautifies 
I While Lyndon Bombs." A band of 
hippies, led by a young man with wire 
spectacles and a bandana around his 
head, sat down in the plaza with their 
legs crossed. The young man was blow-


--- Page 11 ---

11 1 The New Journal I October 29, 1967 
ing soap bubbles. 
A reporter from The New York Times 
asked Mandelbaum why anybody would 
hold a silent demonstration. "Demon-
strators against the War tend to be 
written off as irresponsible malcontents," 
he said, "which isn't true. The majority 
are very reasonable people." 
At a quarter after six, the representa-
tives of the High School Anti-communist 
League began shouting. They were 
asked to quiet down. They did. The 
loudest people now were the Negro shoe-
shine boys, ferreting amongst the 
footwear. 
By 6:20 the crowd bad swelled to 1200 
people, covering most of the Beinecke 
Plaza. More than anything else, the 
people-with the exception of the 
placard bearers and the hippies-re-
minded one of the intermission crowd 
outside a theater. There wasn't that 
tension, that sense of rage being built up 
and stored within for the final explosion; 
they were just people who had come to 
show they opposed the war. 
At 6:25 a leader of Students for a 
Democratic Society announced their 
next meeting and then urged attendance 
the next morning at draft headquarters, 
when a Quaker was going to refuse 
induction. The crowd listened quietly, 
except for a young man who shouted, 
"Johnson must go." 
Mandelbaum climbed up on one of 
the marble blocks in front of Commons, 
just east of the sarcophagus-like mem-
orial. He lifted the bull-horn, pointed it 
the wrong way, and said almost inaudibly 
that it was now 6:30 and would the 
people remain quiet for ten minutes. 
About twelve hundred people turned 
forward, facing the war monument. the 
names of the battles, and the Freshman 
Commons itself, where the wife of the 
Commander-in-Chief was going to speak 
on beauty. 
In the silence, those in front could hear 
coming from Commons the faint clink-
ing of china and silver and the drone 
of a voice over a microphone. 
Then, suddenly, a rock-and-roll 
record, the Kinks' "I'm A Dedicated 
Follower of Fashion," blared out from a 
window in Berkeley College. For a 
moment it seemed that the silence might 
disintegrate, people began to turn; but 
then, as though they had resolved as 
a single body, everybody decided to 
ignore the music and turn back to the 
silence. 
At the first sound of the music, 
Berkson and two others charged toward 
Berkeley. They were joined by a 
campus guard who had convinced the 
music players, out to disrupt the demon-
stration, to turn down the volume. As 
soon as the guard left, one of the music 
players turned up the volume 
again, said he was going to accuse 
Berkson of stealing, and lunged at him. 
Two others, and then a third, held the 
guy back; and as they were all locked in 
their waltz, the record ran out. 
Outside, it was quiet again except for 
the three boys who had climbed onto 
the memorial, and who hooted until 
asked to stop. Like members of 
a dictator's entourage curious to see the 
motley mob at the gate of the Presiden-
tial Palace, some Political Union 
members moved to the doors of Com-
mons and stared out. 
The quiet ticked by. "Remember those 
days when all we could get was 150 
people behind Coffin and Cook on the 
Green?" mused an SDS member quietly, 
as he scanned the silence. "This is not 
the most satisfying thing, but it's worth 
it. What else can you do right now?" 
The ten minutes was over. Mandel-
baum raised the bull-hom again and 
announced its end. He thanked the 
people. There was half applause, only 
slightly audible inside, and the crowd 
began to turn and leave. 
The demonstration was over. SDS 
had stuck to its pledge not to break the 
silence and no Provos had pulled down 
their pants. 
But SDS now wanted a protest to call 
its own. A blond man, standing on the 
steps, started to chant: "What do we 


--- Page 12 ---

121 The New Journal I October 29, 1967 
want?" 
"Peace," chanted back twenty-five 
people. 
"When do we want it?" 
"Now," forty responded. 
The large number of demonstrators 
reacted to that as they had to the rock-
and-roll: first with a moment of wavering 
and then simply by ignoring it. The 
dispersing continued. So did the 
chanting. 
"Peace now! Peace now!" 
A group of ten, unable to hold still, 
unable not to try anything any longer, 
broke off and charged at Commons. 
They stopped two dozen feet from the 
building, their way blocked by three 
policemen. 
"Hell, no, we won't go ... hell, no, 
we won't go ... hell, no, we won't go ... " 
they called out to the impassive police, 
and then stopped. 
"Fuck you, you will too ... fuck you, 
you will too . . . fuck you, you will 
too ... "the High School Anti-Com-
munists shouted at them. 
And that was the end of all the · 
demonstrations outside Commons. Soon 
Beinecke was empty, except for the anti-
war leaflets, which had been picked up 
two hours before by Berkson when he 
still thought it would be incredible if 
the silence would work, and which were 
now flapping in the wind. The officers 
relaxed and leaned against the pillars of 
Woolsey Hall. 
The SDS chanting had faintly pene-
trated into Commons; the silence not at 
all. 
The only activity during the dinner 
had been Liz Carpenter. She bad gone 
from press table to press table at the 
beginning of the dinner, shaking hands 
and hunting big game, and telling every 
table, "I'd like to see a standing ovation." 
When she had returned to her own 
table, she became very annoyed because 
the NBC c~-neramen weren't pointing 
their cameras enough in the direction of 
Mrs. Johnson. 
"Those bastards," she said to one of 
the people at her table. "Give me their 
names, and I'll take care of them." 
The names were given, and then she 
was asked, "What are you going to do? 
Tell Sarnoff?" 
"No, there're other people, but I'm 
going to take care of them." 
She was silent for a moment. "This is 
a rough game, and you've got to be 
rough," she added in an almost wistful 
tone. 
A few minutes after the end of the 
demonstration, the maste( of ceremonies 
was making introductions at the 
speakers' table. John O'Leary made a 
welcoming address, probably the best 
speech of the evening, in which he 
proved very keen at finding coincidences. 
Clare Booth Luce, the last woman 
to address the Union, said O'Leary, has 
written that Mrs. Johnson is doing more 
than any other President's wife. He then 
presented Mrs. Johnson with the book 
on Yale's Vinland Map, Reuben 
Holden's book on Yale, and a wind-up 
bulldog that goes "Boola Boola." 
After the presentations, the president 
of Yale began a most ambiguous speech. 
He addressed his audience of "partisans 
of the left, partisans of the right, and 
fellow mugwumps," and then continued 
with that burp-oratorical effect of his, 
which makes it seem that he's always 
throwing away a line. 
M rs. Johnson's visit, he said, had given 
him a new awareness of the public side 
of a person who has no private life, and 
whose private life is public. 
Brewster recalled how he had opposed 
Franklin D. Roosevelt's foreign policy 
before World War II, but that his feeling 
did not prevent him from admiring Mrs. 
Roosevelt, a woman of "courage and 
compassion." Then he noted that the 
"isolationism" of his pre-1941 under-
graduate years at Yale had "come into 
vogue lately." And finally, he said, Mrs. 
Johnson is the greatest First Lady we've 
had since Eleanor Roosevelt. 
Some observers felt Brewster was 
obliquely slapping the demonstrators 
outside; others felt Brewster himself was 
noting that he opposed Johnson's war 
today the way he opposed FOR's in 
1941. Others weren't sure what Brewster 
was talking about. 
And then at last, Mrs. Johnson spoke 
about beauty. She urged all Yale men to 
devote their efforts to improving the 
environment. It was an altogether un-
memorable oration, delivered in a very 
pleasing, modulated style, a perfect 
example of Speechthink. The First 
Lady's speechwriters had done their 
homework-her talk was festooned 
with references to Yale University. 
There was nothing controversial or 
gripping; Mrs. Johnson simply urged 
beauty on the nation and gave some 
examples of how some people had 
brought about beautification. 
Liz Carpenter's ovation stood, and 
Mrs. J ohnson made her way out and 
went upstairs to a reception with the 
Brewsters in the Presidents' Room above 
the rotunda. The room was empty when 
they arrived, and Mrs. Johnson asked 
where the guests were. Brewster replied 
that they were being delayed to give the 
First Lady time to unwind from the 
formality of her speech. "Oh, don't do 
that," said Mrs. Johnson. Faculty mem-
bers from the Forestry and Art and 
Architecture schools came up. Brewster 
handed Mrs. Johnson a drink. Outside 
the room, a dozen Secret Service men 
were sitting, but only one of them was 
actually watching the room. 
The Whiffenpoofs carne in to sing. 
They formed themselves in a semi-
circle so that Mrs. Johnson WB.$ at 
their backs, but then the Brewsters 
rescued her and brought her to the 
front. One of the Whiffenpoofs, who had 
been in agony all week about singing to 
Lyndon Johnson's wife, but who had 
decided to sing after an. assuaged his 
conscience by handing a letter of protest 
to Brewster, who handed it to Chauncey, 
who was presumably going to hand it 
to one of Mrs. Johnson's secretaries, 
who would read it and then might hand 
it to Mrs. Johnson, who probably 
wouldn't tell her husband. 
The Whiffenpoofs delivered a very 
professional performance, and Mrs. 
Johnson seemed to enjoy it. Then they 
started out. Lady Bird grabbed one of 
them by the coat; it looked like she 
wanted an encore, and they were very 
pleased and came back in, but then it 
turned out that she just wanted to have 
her picture taken with them. 
Liz Carpenter, Mrs. Johnson's secre-
tary, was one of the last to leave the 
Commons downstairs. She stopped in 
the rotunda to meet her daughter, from 
Pembroke, and several of her classmates, 
who had been fixed up for the occasion 
with Political Union members. Most of 
the girls had a good time, except for one, 
who had been invited back to the room 
of the Political Union member, offered 
a drink, and then discovered that the 
member, who had sat down next to her 
on the couch, was trying to unzip her 
dress from the back. 
Mrs. Carpenter eyed her daughter 
and her daughter's friends and the 
Political Union dates and said, "Well, 
let's all go upstairs and mate." 
After the main reception, Mrs. John-
son returned to the Brewster home for a 
smaller reception and then went to 
sleep. All the doors at the Brewster 
house were kept unlocked, and her car 
was kept in the driveway for easy get-
away. 
But Mrs. Johnson was not the only 
member of the Johnson team at Yale that 
evening. Jack Valenti, introduced at 
the banquet as one of President 
Kennedy's advisors, but in fact one of 
Johnson's, even since his resignation 
from the White House staff to bead the 
Motion Picture Producers Association, 
was also up and about at Yale. 
After the banquet Valenti went over to 
the Law School to speak to a forum. His 
visit to Yale the same day was completely 
coincidental. Valenti opened himself to 
questions, and virtually every question 
was a hostile one on Vietnam. One that 
could be called non-hostile: "Do you 
think the violence in Vietnam is respon-
sible for the violence in films?" Valenti 
handled all the questions by referring to 
secret deliberations he had taken part in, 
usually in response to urgent messages 
from General Westmoreland, and never 
hesitated to use logic: "I flew missions 
during World War II and killed 10,000 
of my former countrymen. I know it. 
It's just as amoral as Vietnam, but they 
pinned medals on me for it. No one really 
saw the brutality of the war." 
Finally, Valenti showed anger, and as 
he snapped his briefcase shut, he de-
livered a brilliant expansion on his 
I-sleep-better-every-night-with-Lyndon-
Johnson-as-my-President routine, by 
describing how the President, when he 
reads the casualty lists, experiences a 
metaphorical hatchet in his heart and a 
presumably real acid stomach. And he 
concluded by pleading, "I would hope 
that you'd try to understand, to be 
tolerant and a bit forgiving." 
It was very quiet by that time on 
Hillhouse A venue in front of the 
Brewsters' house. A police car suddenly 
roared down the street and stopped 
quickly at the curb. The patrolman in 
front of the house quickly strode over 
and received a coffee-to-go from a 
plainclothesman inside the car. 
Across the street and one house down, 
15 members of SDS were camped on 
the curb. They spent all night there, 
singing some, reading sections from 
MacBird, but quietly. In the morning, 
most of them found they had caught 
colds.


**Letters to the Editors**
**Author: P. Allen, John Wilhelm**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Letters
To the Editors: 
I think that few students who have 
suffered through classes in Winchester 
and North Sheffield, who put up with 
the noise and poor lighting, who stifled 
during the summer and froze during the 
winter, are actually sorry to see those 
"fabulous manifestations of man's 
humanity" bite the dust. We should not 
be deceived by Mr. Scully's sentimental 
rhetoric into thinking highly of these 
buildings. They were ugly, monstrous, 
depressing structures--examples of 
Victorian bastard architecture at its 
very worst. Those who regret the build-
ings value age, not aesthetics. We should 
be happy to see such rubbish destroyed-
the Old Campus should surely be next. 
P. Allen 

The Myth is no more: New Haven is 
not a "model, slumless city," filled with 
euphoric, prosperous citizens. The dis-
turbances during August buried the 
myth,thankfully and at long last. 

Yet, disturbingly, the summer dis-
turbances in New Haven, while destroy-
ing one myth, appear to have given rise 
to another: that Mayor Lee's urban 
renewal program has been primarily 
concerned with catering to the upper-
classes of the city, to the exclusion of 
the ghettoes; and that the troubles this 
summer were an inevitable result of this 
misplaced emphasis. 

John Wilhelm, in his lengthy article, 
"The Success and Tragedy of Richard 
C. Lee" (The New Journal: October 15, 
1967), carries this new view much 
further. According to Wilhelm, Mayor 
Lee's program is an outgrowth of an 
alliance between big business in New 
Haven, the banks and Yale. The major 
objective of their support is selfish: for 
big business, to make money; for Yale, to 
provide a prettier environment for the 
protection of its upper-class, Ivy League 
population. 

But, according to Wilhelm, there is a 
more insidious motive behind the 
alliance: to protect the power structure 
from any unwanted infiltration from the 
ranks of the poor and, inferentially 
and more specifically, the blacks. To 
use his words: "In ... (Mayor Lee's) 
administration, the only disagreement 
tolerated is from those who already have 
significant power. The voices of the 
protesting poor are shunted aside as 
quickly as possible." 

Like many myths, the newest one 
about the causes of the disturbances this 
summer, even carried to the extreme 
of the Wilhelm thesis, has a core of 
truth. But in order to isolate this core 
and appreciate its meaning, it is neces-
~ 
to put the allegations which gave 
nse to the myth to closest scrutiny. 

With such an approach, one finds most 
of Mr. Wilhelm's accusations and 
hypotheses unable to stand up to either 
fact or logic. 

There are two specific instances of 
error in fact by Mr. Wilhelm which, 
~though apparently trivial, portend a 
1~lar tendency for inaccuracy and 
dtstortion on more iro'pOrtant topics. 

The first involves the FBI. In preparing 
the reader for his general thesis of 
Mayor Lee in alliance with the forces 
of reaction and money, Wilhelm, in his 
"Introduction," accuses "the liberal 
Lee" of ''working with that most con-
servative of governmental institutions, 
the FBI." The purpose of Mayor Lee's 
newly formed partnership with J. Edgar 
Hoover's men, according to Wilhelm, is 
to get Fred Harris and other black 
militant leaders put behind bars. This 
little story makes good reading; un-
fortunately, it has no relation to reality. 

In fact, when the FBI called on Mayor 
Lee, he gave them no "help" or "en-
couragement" other than directing them 
to the files of the Police Department 
which are, of course, open to the public. 
That was the extent of his dealing with 
the ;FBI. 

The second instance is more blatant 
and more serious. Wilhelm accuses 
Mayor Lee of breaking a "series of 
agreements" made on Sunday, the second 
day of the rioting. We are to infer that 
these "agreements" involved allowing 
the black militants to stop the violence 
without any intrusion from the police. 

First of all, no such agreements were 
ever made; they were admittedly de-
manded by Fred Harris and leaders of 
the Hill Parents Association, but never 
agreed to by anyone from the Mayor's 
staff, much less by the Mayor himself. 

Mayor Lee did exhibit some restraint in 
sending police into the Hill section 
during the initial hours of the dis-
turbances; but this was of his own 
volition. It is easy to understand how 
Mr. Wilhelm came to his "broken 
promise" conclusion. The well-publicized 
demands of Fred Harris to send the 
police out of the Hill turned to bitterness 
when the demands were ignored. It was 
an easy logical step to then assume that 
the demands were not ignored but rather, 
accepted and then disregarded with bad 
faith. In point of fact, however, the 
latter is completely untrue. 

Parenthetically, although the dis-
turbances themselves presented a 
tremendous emotional shock to New 
Haven residents and to the national 
press, the amount of resident participa-
tion and the extent of damage was 
quite slight, particularly when compared 
to similar disturbances in other cities. 

There were no casualties, no shots fired, 
no widespread looting or burning. This 
is not to minimize the significance of 
the disturbances, nor the degree of 
discontent in the ghetto which in large 
part gave rise to them. Nor would most 
city officials deny that there were many 
instances of false arrest and police 
brutality during those tumultuous August 
nights. Still, New Haven was no Newark 
or Detroit; far from it. Some in New 
Haven credit this to the Mayor's quick 
action in imposing a curfew and increas-
ing the police detail in the troubled areas. 

This is surely one pertinent explanation. 

But, to seek a more relevant explanation, 
we must take a close look at what 
Mayor Lee has sought and accomplished 
over the past fourteen years. Hopefully, 
in doing so, we can at the same time 
dispose of Mr. Wilhelm's thesis and the 
myth formulated by Mayor Lee's newest 
critics. 

One of the most oft-repeated aspects 
of the myth, repeated to the point where 
it now seems thought of as doctrine 
among the Mayor's critics, goes some-
thing like this: Mayor Lee's urban 
renewal program is geared for the upper 
and middle classes; to prove this, an 
impressive array of luxury housing and 
business revitalization and construction, 
done during the Lee years, is listed. 

It follows then, that Mayor Lee's urban 
renewal has been no more than· Negro 
removal; that the bulldozer has outdone 
the builder; and that displaced families 
are left without adequate homes to move 
to and without aid from the city admin-
istration. That is the theory. Now, with 
objectivity, let us look at the facts. 

Over the past decade, New Haven, 
under its urban renewal program, has 
built, is building, or is planning to build 
5,100 housing units. In addition, over 
9,000 dwelling units have been re-
habilitated with the city's encourage-
ment, at a private investment of more 
than $17 million. The latter figure does 
not include more than $2 million worth 
of rehabilitation done through the city's 
housing code enforcement agency. Of 
the 5,100 new units, almost one-half are 
for low-income groups; less than one-
fifth are upper-middle or upper-income 
units. This percentage of low-income 
housing is higher than urban renewal 
programs of any other city in the nation. 

Plans continue to be made for further 
low-income developments through vari-
ous unique approaches, some of which 
will be discussed below. Noted architect 
Louis Kahn is working on preliininary 
plans for the Hill project, budgeted at 
$14 million, most of which will go to the 
construction of low-income housing, 
two new schools and recreational 
facilities for the residents of the Hill. 

What about the families who lie in 
the path of the bulldozer? First of aU, 
the Lee administration makes every 
effort to locate non-residential plots of 
land upon which new housing can be 
built. Anyone who has taken the briefest 
ride through the Dixwell or Dwight 
projects will notice, almost invariably, 
empty lots with signs in front announcing 
a new Redevelopment Agency project. 

But, in cases where families are Jiving 
on the site of a prospective project, the 
Lee administration has provided them 
with a unique means of finding satisfac-
tory housing elsewhere: the Family 
Relocation Office. 

Although the Family Relocation Office 
is only required to find other residences 
for families affected by a New Haven 
urban renewal project, it very rarely if 
ever turns anyone away who is looking 
for another home. Mr. Wilhelm men-
tioned the many families who are being 
forced to move because of the Route 
34 extension. But Mr. Wilhelm neglects 
to add that this is a state highway project, 
for which the New Haven Relocation 
Office has no responsibility; he also 
neglects to add that notwithstanding its 
theoretical lack of responsibility, the 
Office took on the job of helping to find 
adequate homes for families forced to 
relocate because of Route 34. 

Mr. Wilhelm spends a good deal of 
time alleging that urban renewal in New 
Haven is profit motivated. This fits in 
nicely with his thesis, reminiscent of the · 
Populist era, that the Big Money of New 
Haven, encouraged by Mayor Lee, has 
supported urban renewal only to make 
a profit. For example, revitalization of 
the downtown district, according to 
Wilhelm, was "ultimately more profit-
able" for business than "fleeing to the 
suburbs." 

In this instance, Mr. Wilhelm is cor-
rect. His assertion, however, that such 
a situation is bad is not necessarily 
correct. Cities across the nation have 
been stymied in their attempts to improve 
urban conditions because of a dearth 
of municipal revenue. As slum conditions 
increase, real estate assessments go down, 
more and more people move to the 
suburbs, the tax base continues to shrink, 
and less and less business, banking and 
real estate investors are willing to 
gamble with a major financial invest-
ment in the city. 


One of the keys to Mayor Lee's 
astounding success and national reputa-
tion has been his ability to break this 
vicious circle. He has convinced local 
businessmen that investment in New 
Haven is a good investment; he has lured 
numerous national firms, such as 
Sargent's, and Macy's, to New Haven, 
convincing them that the city is a good 
place for them to locate; he has, most 
of all, convinced banks and real estate 
firms that investment in new housing 
can be profitable. The results of his 
efforts have been a meteoric rise of tax 
revenue over the past ten years, the 
opposite of what is happening in most 
cities. For example, in 1957, the Oak 
Street Project area (bordering and in-
cluding where the Connector now is) 
was assessed at $1.4 million. Today, it is 
assessed at more than $18.5. Robert 
Kennedy's recent proposal about offering 
businessmen tax incentives to invest in 
the ghettoes operates under the same 
principle: make slum investment profit-
able, and private enterprise will join in 
the task of slum-clearance full force. 

This is not to say that Mayor Lee 
supports only those urban renewal pro-
grams which are profitable for big 
business, an assertion which Mr. Wilhelm 
makes. It is, in fact, up to Congress to 
take the profit motive out of urban 
renewal through increased federal aid, 
rent supplement programs, and the like. 

But until such a total federal commitment 
is made-and it does not appear forth-
coming-Mayor Lee will remain willing 
to use whatever means necessary to im-
prove housing conditions in the city. 

Hurry, hurry, hurry! 

Such pragmatism is loathsome to ideolo-
gical idealists; but, in New Haven, at 
least, it has been effective. 

Finally, Mr. Wilhelm is highly critical 
of CPI and its programs. Again, the 
conspiracy theory of the money powers 
emerges: "CPI ... is a coalition of those 
in the community who already have 
power ... implicit in their programs is 
the assumption that the poor are where 
they are because something is wrong with 
them, whether it be lack of education, 
poor motivation, or something else." 

Mr. Wilhelm quotes one black CPI 
worker-just one-to support this broad, 
damning generalization. 

One could counter this charge with 
an endless recital of black CPI workers, 
as well as whites, who would utterly 
deny that such an assumption exists; 
one could also cite an endless list of 
CPI programs for job training, educa-
tion, family counseling and recreation 
which were and continue to be models 
for the federal Poverty Program to 
imitate. 

However, within this exaggerated and 
unsupported generalization, Mr. Wilhelm 
has hit upon an important truth: the 
trouble with many of the CPI programs 
over the past six years (and, equally so, 
with the Poverty Program over the 
past three years) has been the lack of 
full participation and direction of these 
programs by the underprivileged them-
selves. This is not, however, the result 
of a sinister conspiracy by the "haves" 
against the "have-nots." Rather, it is a 
result of the newness of the Poverty 
Program concept itself. 

It has been only recently that CPI has 
learned the importance and value of 
having neighborhood residents them-
selves organize and plan their own 
programs. Mr. Wilhelm lightly passes 
over a $45,000 grant given to the Hill 
Parents Association by CPI (and for 
which the Mayor was largely responsible) 
for their own programs. The money was 
given with few strings attached; HPA 
was allowed to use it as it wished. Just 
recently, in the first week of October, 
CPI announced that $300,000 would be 
similarly available for neighborhood 
residents to use for their own programs. 

Of course, Mr. Wilhelm's rejoinder 
might be that this is too little, too late. 

Nevertheless, it is a start. CPI began in 
1961, two years before a Poverty 
Program was even discussed in Wash-
ington. In six years, it has come a long 
way. 

Perhaps the best insight into Richard 
C. Lee, the man, and the difference 
between Richard Lee, the Mayor, and 
other mayors in this nation, can be seen 
by his initial reaction to the summer 
disturbances. 

There were many people in New 
Haven who spoke of "their" ingratitude 
for all Mayor Lee had done for "them"; 
others explained away the disturbances, 
as countless Mayors of other cities 
repeatedly did throughout the summer, 
as the work of "outside infiltrators" or 
the "criminal" element. 

Mayor Lee, however, felt and said 
none of these things. The first person 
at whom he pointed an accusing finger 
was himself. "This only goes to show 
that for all this administration has tried 
to do for this city, it has only scratched 
the surface. For every three steps 
forward we've taken, there have been 
four steps back. Perhaps these dis-
turbances will wake people up to the 
seriousness of the urban crisis, the com-
plexity of the problems, the difficulty of 
the challenge which faces us. God knows 
we've tried to alleviate some of these 
problems. Now, we must work all the 
harder." 

Lee's genius lies not in his ability to 
avoid mistakes but in his ready willing-
ness to learn from them. He is the 
eternal pragmatist, constantly experi-
menting, looking for new ways to build 
housing, new ways to get federal money, 
new ways to teach skills to the poor. 

Yet, Richard Lee's pragmatism has 
not led to cynicism. His willingness to 
yield to practical realities is tempered by 
a continued idealism, a confidence in 
the efficacy of affirmative government 
action. His dream of a "slurnless" city 
remains undaunted, despite the setbacks 
of the past; his intuitive optimism and 
faith in the ability of the rich and the 
poor to work together remain unbroken. 

John Wilhelm, and many other 


**A Response to John Wilhelm's Critique of Mayor Lee**
**Author: Lanny J. Davis**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

radicals and black militants who have 
made Mayor Lee their scapegoat, have 
questioned the basic power structure 
upon which this country has rested since 
its inception. In this sense, their inquiry 
and ensuing criticism are healthy. A 
power structure which has economicaJly 
and socially (and, until 1863, physically) 
enslaved a large section of its population 
is in urgent need of re-examination. 

However, the fervor of John Wilhelm's 
ideology prohibits him from evaluating 
a man like Mayor Lee in relative, as 
well as objective terms. For Wilhelm, 
of the unique mixture of pragmatism and 
idealism which the Mayor bas so ex-
emplified can only be interpreted as a 
cowardly surrender to the monied forces 
of the establishment power structure. 

The rarely disputed point that Mayor 
Lee, des_P.ite the shortcomings which he 
admits to his urban renewal program, 
is head and shoulders above any other 
mayor in America-such a fact is ir-
relevant to the radical. For him, relativ-
ism is meaningless; degrees of progress 
and success are beyond consideration. 
Measurement is in terms of the absolute: 
change must be total and, if necessary, 
violent. 

There is certainly a place--or at least, 
should be a place in the American 
political heritage for such radicals. But 
not in an assessment of a Mayor's 
achievements. In objective terms, one 
then criticize that city's mayor for not 
clearly been one step ahead of all other 
urban leaders for not being two steps 
ahead. One should not scorn the concept 
of a perfect, utopian, "model" city and 
being perfect and incapable of error, 
himself. 

The tragedy of Wilhelm's criticism of 
Mayor Lee, and others like him, is that 
it supplies additional fuel to those who 
oppose progressive, affirmative action 
in the nation's urban centers-this at a 
time when such action is so desperately 
needed. 

Hopefuly, the gap between the 
Wilhelms and Lees of this nation-a 
gap not, in reality, as large as it seems--
will gradually close as communication 
and understanding replace polemics and 
rhetoric. The alternative to such an 
ultimate meeting of the minds is 
polarization and dogmatic rigidity-a 
prospect which would have grave con-
sequences for all concerned. 

Lanny J. Davis 
First Year Law Student 
Chrm. "Students for Lee" 

Wilhelm's Reply: Mr. Davis will no 
doubt be surprised to find that I essential-
ly agree with his evaluation of Mayor 
Lee. I would first, however, like to 
correct some of his more serious errors 
of fact: 

I) It is common knowledge in New 
Haven political circles that the Mayor's 
o~e has more than passively cooperated 
With the FBI in its investigation of the 
Hill Parents Association. 

2) Mayor Lee did in fact make a series 
of agreements with the HPA leaders on 
Sunday of the "riot week". I refer Mr. 
Davis to the article by Rev. Raymond 
C'hulze, pastor of the Zion Lutheran 
C'hurc:h in the Hill, in the American 
Independent Movement Newsletter of 
AuSUSt 21. Rev. Chulze, who attended 
tbe Sunday meeting between Mayor Lee 
and HPA leaders, describes in detail 
the aareements reached and his shock 
and frustration when they were almost 
immediately broken. 

3) The claims Mr. Davis makes for 
the redevelopment program are astound-
ing. He must be using a very strange 
definition of low-income. Louis Kahn's 
Central Hill Project is discussed in a 
Redevelopment Agency brochure: most 
of the housing described is middle-
income and not low. Mr. Davis ought 
to look at the brochure. 

I am amazed to hear that "almost one-
half" of the housing built or planned 
as redevelopment is low-income. If 
Mr. Davis would check with the research 
people at the redevelopment agencies, 
he would find that the figures I quoted 
for rnid-1965-700 luxury apartments, 
976 middle-income-are accurate. He 
would also find that since 1965 only the 
small Fair Haven project I referred to 
plus some housing for the elderly have 
been opened in the low-income field. He 
will find finally that there are plans on 
the drawing board for no more than 
token numbers of low-income units. 

4) If Mr. Davis is at all acquainted 
with New Haven, he should know that 
Mayor Lee bas not "Jured" Sargents to 
the city. Sargents is an old family firm 
that was here before the Mayor was 
born. 

I do not want to quibble at length 
with Mr. Davis' errors. What interests me 
most is that both Mr. Davis and I agree 
that Lee "is head and shoulders above 
every other mayor in America ... " 

That Lee is probably the nation's best 
mayor is precisely the point. If he cannot 
solve the urban crisis any better than 
he has, then we cannot do the job with-
out basic change. Mr. Davis may know 
some "radical" for whom the Mayor's 
clear superiority is "irrelevant". I think 
it is quite relevant. I am sorry that he 
felt compelled to fit me into some pre-
determined image. I am sorry that he 
felt compelled to cloud my arguments-
and his--by throwing about loaded 
words and phrases like "insidious" and 
"conspiracy theory". Mr. Davis got 
neither such words nor the tone they 
conjure from me. 

On the contrary, it is not because I 
dislike Lee personally that I say that, 
as Mr. Davis puts it, one step ahead is 
not fast enough. The Mayor is trying to 
convince those that are already powerful 
that they ought to save our cities. I did 
not by accident use the word "tragic" 
in my article. Because those who have 
power now will not make changes that 
seriously endanger their power or wealth, 
Lee's efforts have proved fruitless. 

Tragic figures always evoke sympathy, 
but sympathy for the man should not 
cloud our political judgment. 

We face the incredibly difficult job of 
mobilizing the American people to 
force the powerful to give up their 
control. If that job is not done, the 
frustrated poor will simply tear the 
country up because they have no 
alternative. 

As for Mr. Davis, I hope that he can 
discard the fact-finding methods he 
perfected while chairman of the Yale 
Daily News and which he continues to 
use as chairman of Students for Lee. 

If he ventured out into the streets and 
alleys of the city and listened to the 
desperate people who this summer re-
sorted to "rioting", he would discover 
many things that are not apparent on the 
narrow path between campus and 
City Hall. 


The race is on to the "door-busting" 
PRE-HOLIDAY 
BOOK AND RECORD SALE 
AT THE VALE CO-OP ... .. 
Enjoy gigantic savings on over 250 choice pub-
lishers' remainders, fine reprints, and special 
imports. 
While they last, receive FREE Aldine art books 
(printed in France) with purchases over $5. 
Fabulous savings on 1500 records too .... major 
label cutouts, specials, and classicals. 
R eceive full patronage refund too!



**Yale/Harvard Art Exchange**
**Author: William Mitchell**
**Page number(s): 15**

Art 
In the West Gallery and corridor of the 
first floor in the Yale University Art 
Gallery, students and the general public 
have an opportunity to see a unique 
exhibition of sixty-seven works of art 
on loan to Yale from the Fogg Art 
Museum of Harvard University. This 
number comprises thirty-three paintings, 
twenty drawings and fourteen pieces of 
sculpture. Simultaneously, sixty-four 
works of art from the Yale collections 
are on loan to the Fogg Museum. 

These exchange exhibitions, the first 
between Yale and Harvard, originated 
in a conversation between the directors 
of the respective museums, Andrew C. 
Ritchie and John Coolidge, on ways in 
which a closer relationship could be 
brought about between the two institu-
tions. The resulting shows are a 
magnificent success. 

Neither exhibition can be called truly 
representative of the collections in each 
museum; for in choosing the works of 
art to send to the sister institution the 
directors were confronted with many 
problems. For example, many fine works 
could not be loaned because of the terms 
of bequests. Thus Yale was unable to 
lend any works by John Trumbull or 
Harvard to send any of their outstanding 
collection of Pre-Raphaelite paintings. 
Also, paintings on panels are considered 
too fragile to travel. 

In an exhibition such as the one now 
at Yale where every work is excellent, 
it is very difficult to choose the finest. 
I will attempt to list a few to which one 
should pay special attention. Among 
the paintings: the exquisite Head of 
Christ by Rembrandt; the Landscape by 
Bierstadt, which is an excellent example 
of the Hudson River School; the Poussin, 
Holy Family; Caracciola's St. Sebastian; 
the mysterious triptych, The Actors, 
by Max Beckmann; Bazille's Scene d'Ete, 
painted the year before his tragic early 
death and possibly his best work. 

The group of sculptures are also all of 
them excellent, but particularly impres-
sive are the Portrait of De Podenas by 
Daumier, the French Romanesque 
Capital with Scenes from the Story of 
Samson, the Angel Carrying a Cornu-
copia by Pierre Le P autre, Maillot's 
Young Cyclist, Gaspard Marsy's Boreas 
and Oreithyia, and Matisse's Le Serf. 
-William Mitchell 


**Letter from Berkeley**
**Author: John D. Elliott**

Letter from Berkeley 
Early on Friday morning, October 20, 
hundreds of University of California at 
Berkeley students joined many others in 
barricading the streets of downtown Oak-
land, not with their bodies, but with 
parked cars and trash cans which they 
pushed into the intersections around the 
Oakland Induction Center. They moved 
quickly, avoiding police and arrest as 
much as possible. 

And so, at the same time Mario Savio 
was serving the last week of his long jail 
sentence for leading the Free Speech 
Movement sit-in in 1964, the student 
protest movement emerged from the 
awkward transitional stage which has 
plagued it since the decline of the Civil 
Rights Movement. American students 
appear to have finally caught up with 
students in the rest of the world by 
abandoning their exclusive commitment 
to non-violent civil disobedience. 

This escalation of protest tactics was 
finally forced by the Oakland Police 
during the Tuesday morning "attack" 
on the induction center, the first of the 
two mass attempts to prevent or delay 
the transportation of inductees to and 
into the building during Stop the Draft 
Week. The slogan in the Bay Area was 
"Shut Down the Induction Center." 

Three thousand demonstrators on Tues-
day stood shoulder to shoulder before 
the induction center, filling an entire 
block of the street onto which the center 
opens. 

By no means unanimously willing to 
be arrested, most of the crowd intended 
to run if the 800 police moved in to 
make arrests; but the choice never came. 

Instead of attempting to arrest the 
protestors for refusing to disperse, the 
police charged the crowd at one end, 
clubbing them and spraying them with 
MACE, the new chemical immobilizer. 

Suddenly, the traditional non-violent 
sacrifice of going to jail was no longer 
available. Thus, a substanial minority 
of the 10,000 protestors from Berkeley, 
Stanford, San Francisco State and other 
schools who returned for the second 
"attack" on the following Friday were 
ready to be more aggressive and less self-
sacrificing in the face of the risk of 
serious injury. 

Dean Rusk had earlier this month 
signalled with embarrassing frankness 
the inevitability of the demise of peaceful 
protest tactics. Responding to a peace 
initiative placed on the San Francisco 
municipal ballot by the courts, after 
county supervisors had refused to do so, 
Rusk made clear that the Johnson 
Administration has no objections to 
such civil libertarian exercises, for it 
has no intention of altering its present 
Vietnam policy, no matter what the 
outcome of this vote and others like it. 

So much for lawful protest. 

dn the Berkeley campus, both pro-
testors and administrators sought to 
avoid an on-campus Free Speech conflict. 
With unprecedented liberality and 
courage, Berkeley Chancellor Roger 
Heyns stood up to conservative civic 
pressure and granted students permission 
to use a campus building for a teach-in 
the Monday night before the week's first 
descent upon the Oakland center. But, 
in a grossly political decision of doubtful 
constitutionality, an Oakland judge 
ordered Heyns to deny the protest use 
of campus facilities; and Heyns has since 
cited almost 100 students for participat-
ing in "illegal" rallies on campus. 

Students, nevertheless, have not yet 
sought to protest Heyns' action because 
they are unwilling to divert their energies 
from attacking the War and draft to 
defending the civil liberties necessary 
to protest. 

John D. Elliott 
Senior, U niv. of 
Calif. at Berkeley 



**Title: The James Hillhouse Room Restaurant Performance Announcement**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Have you seen Mr. Donald Hutchinson perform? 
How about Mr. John Hopkins, Jr.? 
How about Mr. Ben Clark, Jr.? 
Performances: 
Monday through Friday 
Curtain: 
11:30 A.M. (lunch) 
5:30 P.M. (dinner) 
They put on a really good show! 
at 
The James Hillhouse Room Restaurant 
(12th floor -Kline Biology Tower) , 
These guys are stars. 
Really big stars. 
DONALD HUTCHINSON 
as Chef 
JOHN HOPKINS, JR. 
as Maitre d' 
BEN CLARK, JR. 
as Manager 

