Publication date: February 2013
Volume: 45
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Whitney Schumacher
- Editors-in-Chief: Juliana Hanle, Aliyya Swaby
- Managing Editors: Benjamin Mueller, Cindy Ok
- Photo & Design Editors: Brianne Bowen, Susannah Shattuck
- Senior Editors: Nicholas Geiser, Helen Knight, Nikita Lalwani, Sanjena Sathian
- Associate Editors: Eric Boodman, Sophia Nguyen
- Copy Editors: Cassie DaCosta, Justine Yan
- Staff Writer: Caroline Durlacher
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh.
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff,  Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan  M. Clark, Constance Clement,  Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O’Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
Points of Departure - 
Critical Angle - 
In Search of Time Not Lost - Cindy Ok
Personal Essay - 
High Water - Juliana Hanle
Profile - 
Stearner Stuff - Bijan Stephen
Interview - 
Ted Hoagland - 
STANDARDS - 
Wasting Away - Eric Boodman
One-on-One - Christopher Peak


**A Note from the Editors**
**Author: Aliyya Swaby & Juliana Hanle**
**Page number(s): 2**

The New Journal puts out a 
theme issue every spring. This year 
we’ve chosen “waste.” It’s a broad 
idea that produced many pieces 
exploring just the opposite of 
waste: subjects who care for and 
conserve the people and places 
around them. If the principle 
tenet of reporting is communicat­
ing stories and facts, then a tenet 
of engaged reporting should be to 
use these stories to point in posi­
tive directions. We hope you enjoy 
the issue.
—Aliyya Swaby & Juliana Hanle


**Points of Departure**
**Author:  (No Author Listed)**
**Page number(s): 3**


**Critical Angle**


**In Search of Time Not Lost**
**Author: Cindy Ok**
**Page number(s): 6**



**Personal Essay**


**High Water**
**Author: Juliana Hanle**
**Page number(s): 21**



**Profile**


**Stearner Stuff**
**Author: Bijan Stephen**
**Page number(s): 10**


**Interview**


**Ted Hoagland**
**Page number(s): 24**



**STANDARDS**


**Wasting Away**
**Author: Eric Boodman**
**Page number(s): 32**

Funding cuts are making tuberculosis cases 
worse and more frequent.



**One-on-One**
**Author: Christopher Peak**
**Page number(s): 38**

A New Haven detective brings the gangs to 
him, offering an open hand.



**Title: Pass the Grub**
**Author: Clare Randt**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Squeezed between Ivy Noodle and Tomatillo on 
Elm Street, Kathryn Redford’s apartment features less 
conventional cuisine than either restaurant. Redford, 
27, is the founder of Ofbug, a six-month-old start-up 
dedicated to the production and promotion of insects 
as animal feed. The bugs live in a few plastic IKEA 
boxes in the corner of her living room and die a few 
weeks later in her freezer, after which Redford dries and 
processes them into food.

“I really wanted to make a product that didn’t look 
like an insect and introduce it to the Western world,” 
Redford said. “We wouldn’t eat an insect if it looked like 
an insect. Nor would we eat a cow if it looked like a 
cow.”

Redford ate her first bug–a spider–in kindergarten. 
Another child who took pleasure in slaughtering spiders 
refused to stop killing them unless Redford ate one, so 
she did. Now she is working to develop insect-based 
animal feed, and eventually human food, and in the 
process has become part of an expanding network 
of individuals around the world who are working to 
incorporate bugs into the Western diet.

According to a website titled “Entomophagy”—
the scientific name for human consumption of bugs—
twenty-four restaurants in the United States list insects 
on their menus. Though none are listed in Connecticut, 
five such eateries are listed in New York, including two 
frozen yogurt shops. 

The idea of edible insects for the Western world 
has also caught the attention of the United Nations. 
A March 2012 United Nations Food and Agriculture 
Organization (FAO) report developed an action plan to 
move the issue higher on the international agenda. The 
report estimates that eighty percent of humans around 
the world already include insects in their diets.

Afton Halloran, who works with the FAO Edible 
Insect Program, explained that producing breeding 
insects for animal feed is less energy-intensive than 
producing food crops. Bugs can be bred and mass-
produced in short periods of time, and they emit fewer 
greenhouse gases.

Redford and her husband, Paul Froese SOM ‘13, 
who studies at the Yale School of Management, share 
the apartment with the bugs, a pet hedgehog named 
Fangu, and various remnants of other animals: snakeskin 
and a coyote bone sit in glass vials on a side table next 
to a dried deer leg. When I visited the apartment in 
late January, only one of the bugs was alive. It moved 
lethargically across a bit of carrot that Redford had added 
to a glass of oatmeal. The bug was the sole survivor of 
a cannibalistic melee in which recently metamorphosed 
pupae had gone after one another.

Currently, Redford raises mealworms and crickets 
(an initial attempt to breed silkworms ended when a 
whiff of Paul’s cologne led to their untimely death). 
The mealworm beetles grow in three plastic boxes, 
each corresponding to one of three life stages: larvae, 
pupae, and beetle. The larvae, which we would recognize 
as mealworms, are what Redford uses for feed, letting 
some grow to beetles for breeding. An entire generation 
grows and dies over the course of three weeks. Next 
to the larvae sit two plastic boxes for the crickets, one 
specifically for breeding. 

When they’re ready, the mealworms and crickets go 
in the freezer. This allows them something like a natural 
death before Redford dries the bugs in a standard kitchen 
dehydrator and then, sometimes, pulverizes them in a 
coffee grounder. Freezing minimizes pain, she said. 
Even so, she paused before she put in her first batch.


“Oh my gosh, I’m going to kill thousands of 
lives right now,” she remembers thinking. “I don’t take 
pleasure in killing them or anything like that. I definitely 
have a conscience about it. My focus is on the greater 
goal here.” 

Gregory Sewitz, a senior at Brown, has a similar 
goal but different approach. He is also concerned about 
food security and nutrition, and is developing an insect-
based snack for human customers. 

“You have to create the market for eating crickets,” 
Sewitz said. “Protein bars are the best way in.” Sewitz 
plans to market a protein bar that hides the insect’s taste 
and texture, one that would look and taste like other 
major brands such as Cliff Bar and ProBar. 

While chickens may have no objection to eating 
bugs, humans, specifically those in Western culture, are 
a different story.

“A lot of the stigma has to do with the look of 
insects,” Halloran said. “We’re naturally inclined to either 
squish the insect or say, yuck, that’s gross.” But we’ve 
gotten used to eating strange animals before, she added. 
Shrimp and lobsters, which resemble insects, used to be 
low-expense foods for working people. Now both are 
luxury items.

“We’ve been eating our way around the true insect,” 
she said.

Even Redford experiences a visceral discomfort to 
eating certain kinds of bugs.

“I definitely–this is super hypocritical–I definitely 
don’t like legs and stuff like that on insects,” Redford 
said. “They’re twine-y, almost.”

She prefers mealworms, she said. “You can just pop 
them in your mouth when they’re dehydrated.” Scorpions 
and tarantulas are a no-go, but not because of the 
armored exoskeletons or hairy legs. 

“I love them too much,” Redford said.
—Ike Swetlitz


**Title: Gilding the Lyric**
**Author: Gideon Broshy**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

One minute at Lyric Hall and I was on stage, under 
the 1913 proscenium arch.  Dim yellow chandelier lights 
gave the brawny columns a static glow.  

I hadn’t played a piano with ivory keys since the old 
tattered one at my neighborhood music school.  Rough 
on the skin, this piano recalled the other’s grandmotherly 
world-weariness.  Plastic keys aren’t for John Cavaliere, 
the owner of the building and the proprietor of Lyric 
Hall Antiques and Conservation—they’ll never have the 
charm, the honesty of ivory.  He’s built his business, 
his home, and his life on preserving that honesty, on 
reviving the old and celebrating the forgotten. 

Founded in 1913 as a vaudeville house by Italian 
factory workers, Lyric Hall now plays three roles: that of 
Cavaliere’s antiques and conservation business, that of 
a performance space, and that of his home.  Cavaliere, 
who studied art at Connecticut College, is a master 
craftsman. He specializes in gilding, but also works with 
wood, metal and upholstery. He purchased Lyric Hall 
in 2006, and since 2010 it has hosted various theater 
productions, musical performances, and poetry readings. 

When I walked in at 2 p.m. on a Sunday, Cavaliere, 
who has a slim goatee and curly hair that creeps onto 
a wide forehead like ivy, greeted me and brought me 
straight into the theater at the back of the building. 
A teal 1930s cigarette machine offering Kents and 
Marlboros for 30 cents a pack stood conspicuously in 
the cold foyer.

The first objects to catch my eye were five golden, 
shell-like footlights that sat poised in a row upstage. 
Traditionally, ornaments of this sort were used to shield 
stage-illuminating candles from the wind. At Lyric 
Hall, armed with electric bulbs, they are less practical. 
Cavaliere laid new gold leaf on the old shells himself. 

When Cavaliere bought the building almost a century 
after its construction, it was in ruins. “Nobody knew it 
was a theater for eighty years,” he says. All that remained 
from its vaudeville days was the proscenium arch. Light 
projected into the theater space through cracks in the 
walls and gaping holes in the ceiling. Cavaliere tore 
away strata upon strata of flooring and carpeting, each 
layer corresponding variously to the building’s days, 
post-vaudeville, as a bicycle shop, a flower shop, a joke 
shop. He and a revolving cast of friends, craftsmen, 
and hired help tore away the filth, repainted the walls, 
replaced the ceiling, and redesigned the façade. They 
began installing structures they found in antique shops 
or unused theaters and hotels. The building is a part of 
the antiques collection that it houses; you can almost feel 
the haphazard, stitched-together quality of the walls.

Cavaliere developed his love for old objects as a 
kid visiting his grandparents on Eld Street in East Rock. 
They had bought their house, fully furnished, in the 
thirties. Cavaliere liked to play with the antique furniture 
and other paraphernalia stored in the loft of their back 
carriage house. 

After focusing on portraiture in college, Cavaliere 
turned to antique restoration. “I learn from things that 
have been around, things that are well made, that tell 
a story,” he explained.  After he found Lyric Hall—“it 
found me,” he insists—he moved his business to 
Westville and made restoring the building his raison d’être. 
Cavaliere and his assistants do restoration work in 
the studio, which is filled with scattered tools, containers 
with viscous adhesive liquids, and brushes of all sizes. In 
a corner sits an old parlor stove, a gray boom box, and 
a fragment of an old car wheel. A piece is missing from 
an enormous King George frame; he’s in the process of 
reconstructing it. 

He took me upstairs to a balcony that hangs over 
the back of the theater, which is adorned by a balustrade 
he’s had, in pieces, for years; he salvaged it from the 
deteriorating Hyperion Theater on Chapel Street. I didn’t 
need to see that Cavaliere sleeps there to understand: He 
is Lyric Hall.


We sat down in the kitchen. He painted me a 
picture: a night at Lyric Hall.  After the show finishes, 
everyone mingles in the reception room next to the 
theater, drinking white wine among ancient ships that 
hang in ornate frames. Cavaliere, in a thrift store tuxedo, 
is running around greeting and introducing, laughing and 
joking.  “When you get all these interesting people cheek 
by jowl,” Cavaliere told me, “there’s this wonderful spirit. 
This place has this universal appeal that’s so sacred.” At 
night, in the shadow of the dusted and revived, Lyric 
Hall sustains a community.  It’s a different kind of 
preservation.

But the hall was empty on a Sunday afternoon. 
Cavaliere woke up behind the Hyperion balustrade, 
theater empty and the floors creaky, to show me around. 
In the kitchen, a 1924 Glenwood stove was heating up 
a teakettle; Cavaliere took milk from the ancient GE 
fridge. A modern electric heater, probably from Home 
Depot, sat on the floor by the kitchen table; we laughed 
at how out of place it looked.  

As he began to eat his cereal, Cavaliere reflected on 
his new role as theater producer. His friends call him 
the “accidental impresario.” He broke off for a moment, 
looked at a wall. “Actors like working here,” he said. 
They tell him the place has good ghosts. 


**Title: Thumbin’ A Ride**
**Page number(s): 6**

This January, Alison Greenberg ‘13 was driving 
through rural Bucks County, Pennsylvania with a friend 
when she saw two men standing on the side of the road. 
One was tall with dreadlocks, the other smaller, unshaven, 
wearing baggy jeans, and eating peanut butter ravenously 
out of a jar. Greenberg and her friend kept driving, but 
knowing they’d be returning that way, Greenberg texted 
her friend Jesse Bradford ‘11 for advice. 

Bradford knew a thing or two about hitchhiking. 
The year after he graduated from Yale, he took a solo trip 
all the way around the continental United States, relying 
on strangers to get him from one point on the map to 
another. “Should we pick these guys up?” Greenberg 
asked Bradford. “Yeah!” he responded. “Don’t kill them, 
and don’t get killed.”

Greenberg erred on the side of caution in taking this 
tongue-in-cheek advice. Greenberg wanted her would-
be passengers to know she would not be messed with. 
She asked them their names and ages, and checked those 
against their IDs. She would drive them into Philadelphia, 
but had some questions for them first: Would they try to 
take anything from her? Hurt her or her friend? Trash 
her car? “No, ma’am,” they answered, again and again. 
Just in case, Greenberg told the hitchhikers–Tom and 
Beef–that her dad was a Philly cop and that he was on 
speed dial if they tried anything funny. They didn’t. 

In fact, Greenberg noted, Tom and Beef were 
exceptionally polite and grateful. They claimed it had 
been three weeks since someone had picked them up. In 
the meantime they’d been train hopping and walking and 
had the blisters on their feet to prove it. At a restaurant 
where Greenberg bought the hitchhikers burgers and 
milkshakes, Beef, who said he had ADHD and had 
(falsely, he claimed) been accused of rape, touched 
her knee. Greenberg felt extremely uncomfortable but 
shrugged it off: “I think he was just being sweet and had 
no bad intentions, whatsoever.” 

Enthusiasts like Bradford are quick to say that 
the stereotype of the dangerous hitchhiker is false. In 
Ginger Gail Strand’s book Killer on the Road: Violence 
and the American Interstate–which Bradford read while 
researching the history of hitchhiking–Strand claims 
that many Americans fear hitchhikers because of 
images spread by the F.B.I. and police. “The end result 
is that we have largely turned our backs on the obvious 
efficiencies—for our wallets as well as the planet—of 
ride-sharing,” wrote Strand in a New York Times editorial 
last November, advocating hitchhiking. “And we have 
lost a way to humanize the landscape of the road.”



**Title: The Hitchhiker's Guide to New Haven**
**Author: Katharine Konietzko**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The challenge to humanize hitchhiking pushed 
Bradford to teach a “Hitchhiking 101” workshop at the 
People’s Art Collective’s (PAC) New Haven Free Skool 
last fall. He decided to create a one-hour crash course, 
which he taught to two different groups of students 
from Yale and the New Haven community.

In the workshops, Bradford conducted role-playing 
exercises so the class could practice strategies for 
attracting and interacting with potential rides. Hitchhikers 
should stand in visible spots on highway entrance 
ramps and hold signs stating where they’re headed, 
Bradford explained. For safety’s sake, they should avoid 
hitchhiking at night, or in inclement weather. Ultimately, 
a hitchhiker must trust his or her instincts about drivers. 
“You’re never under an obligation, just because someone 
pulled over, to get in the car with them” said Bradford.

New Haven native Liba Judd, 18, who volunteers 
at the PAC, started hitchhiking last year on her way 
back from an Earth First conference in Pennsylvania. 
She says she is often asked whether hitchhiking is a 
more dangerous venture for women than for men, but, 
like Bradford, she is quick to point out that the same 
question applies to both driver and hitchhiker: Can you 
trust strangers? “If somebody’s going to take advantage 
of a woman, I don’t think it’s likely that hitchhiking is 
going to exacerbate it,” Judd said.

Of course, a hitchhiker’s success depends as much 
on drivers’ prejudices as his or her efforts to follow the 
hitchhiking code. While Bradford, who is white, said he 
could not speak for hitchhikers of other demographics, 
he emphasized the general importance of maintaining 
a clean appearance while on the road. “Every good 
hitchhiker or vagabond traveler knows that you wear 
dark clothes because they hide the dirt and make you 
look cleaner,” he said. “Also I could see how the time 
I would have to wait for a ride would get longer as my 
beard got longer.”

Yet what emerges from talking to Bradford and 
Greenberg was how the experience, whether hitching 
or driving, shaped their attitude towards strangers. “I 
think the true beauty of learning about hitchhiking and 
picking them up is life-affirming,” Greenberg said. “It’s 
saying to the world, ‘I’m not afraid to invest in a stranger 
and to trust them, and to really be vulnerable.’” 

Bradford was amazed that single women with 
small children in their car would stop for him without 
a question. When he told middle-aged drivers that he 
regularly slept in ditches, they’d give him money for a 
motel room. (“Then you buy a beer with the money,” 
Bradford chuckled, “And you still sleep in a ditch.”) 

Greenberg asked Beef and Tom if they would tell 
her stories, and they did. Tom spoke of the wife who 
had left him, of the car another hitchhiker stole from 
him on the way to a Phish concert, of an older woman 
who made unwanted sexual advances, and of the cousin 
in Maryland he was trying to reach. Beef came from a 
wealthy Allentown family and attended St. Paul’s school 
in New Hampshire, but his family kicked him out of 
the house. He’d spent time in jail for petty theft before 
hitting the road. 

Bradford, who still lives and works in New Haven, 
plans on writing a book about his hitchhiking experience 
to “both share the stories and people that I’ve met, and 
also talk about the culture of hospitality and the culture 
of trust.” He picks up hitchhikers whenever he can. 

As Judd said, “If you’re in a car with somebody for 
four hours,” or twelve, as she once had the luck to be, 
“you’re going to talk to them and get to know them, 
even if it’s not a really deep relationship.” And any 
hitchhiker will tell you, that’s much better than nothing.


—Benjamin Kline


**Title: Out of Water**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

I go to the shore whenever I can. I like to watch 
the light fall in tinselly strips on the rippled waves and 
hear it slosh against bridges or beaches. Over these past 
few years in New Haven, I have often found company 
there. In seaside parks and industrial lots where New 
Haven’s rivers converge, I have watched fishermen as 
they wait for the bend at the ends of their rods, hoping 
for a bite on the hook hanging into the sea. But in late 
winter, the shoreline empties. At all of the usual spots—
the bridge, the parks, the underbelly of highways—no 
one is fishing. 

When I walk into Dee’s Bait and Tackle in Fair 
Haven on a Friday afternoon in February, I see seven 
fishermen sitting, standing, and leaning against counters 
around the shop with styrofoam cups of coffee. They 
shout about routes and exits and lakes and tides—was 
it route 7? Exit 34? Lake Wintergreen? What about that 
undertow?—and discuss the quality of ice in this pond 
or that one, debating whether you need a permit to fish 
in such and such a park. 

Pete DeGregorio inherited this store from his 
father in 2005, who opened the shop with Pete’s uncle 
in 1956. Holding his sleeping granddaughter in his arms, 
DeGregorio asks if I want coffee. 

DeGregorio explains that he has twice as many 
people hanging out in his shop during these cold winter 
months, but fewer customers than in the summer. At 
the counter, Mark Pelletier is crimping some of Dee’s 
handmade leaders, steel wires that connect the hook 
or lure to the main line so that big sea fish can’t bite 
through them. He chimes in to say that fishermen come 
to Dee’s when they can’t fish—because it’s too cold or 
the fish aren’t running—for the consolation of at least 
talking about fishing. 

“Some guys, only place they’ll come in the winter is 
here,” he says, stacking a leader in the pile on the counter. 

The fishermen huddle around the checkout counter 
as they talk, none of them buying. Above them, rods, 
minnow traps, eel pots, and crab baskets hang from 
the ceiling. Newspaper clippings and Polaroids full of 
smiling faces and big catches have yellowed and frayed 
on the walls. A bait menu and price list is tacked near the 
counter, advertising the night crawlers, wigglers, sand 
eels, and bunker chums.

Many small bait shops have struggled in recent 
years, suffering from competition with the increasing 
number of big box stores—DeGregorio says you can 
throw a rock from the roof of his shop to a Wal-Mart 
down the block—but Dee’s has something many of the 
other shops don’t: a volunteer workforce.

“If I get busy, customers jump behind the counters 
and grab bait for me,” DeGregorio says. “My customers 
are really pushy salesmen.”

Pelletier and others pass many days grabbing bait, 
making leaders, helping customers, painting the steps 
outside, giving casting lessons, cleaning up the front 
yard, and more—all without pay. They teach wannabe 
fishermen how to reel in catch from the New Haven 
shoreline.

People may go to Wal-Mart for the cheap equipment, 
but there is often more to fishing than having a rod. 
DeGregorio runs behind the counter and grabs a shiner 
that Wal-Mart had sold to a father-son pair who wanted 
to catch snappers a few years back. It was two inches too 
long. The snappers wouldn’t bite.	


The extended family of fishermen also includes 
people with different reasons for arriving at his shop and 
the shore. One middle-aged man walks in to buy bait for 
ice-fishing. He grew up coming to Dee’s with his father, 
but now the roles are reversed: Today, the son is taking 
his dad out on the ice. DeGregorio recalls one single 
mother who, a few years ago, would come in every day, 
buy $1.35 of bait, and catch dinner for her and her kids. 
Others dole out cash for sleek rods and fancy bait. 
“That’s the magic about fishing,” he says, his 
granddaughter still wrapped around his torso. “You 
throw your line in, and the fish doesn’t know how much 
your rod cost. Anyone could catch a really big fish.”

DeGregorio is determined to keep that magic alive 
in Fair Haven. 
“We’re here to stay,” DeGregorio says. 

As long as Dee’s stays, young fishermen who find 
their way to the shop will also find their way to the water, 
where they will wait for that tug at the end of their lines. 
I am no exception. Before I leave, a few fishermen 
give me their numbers. They say to call if I ever want to 
get on the water. Come March, they will help me find 
the fish. 

—Diana Saverin



**Title: In Search of Time Not Lost**
**Author: Cindy Ok**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“I have no time,” thought David* in the middle of reading week during his sophomore spring. 
He was planning on acing his three papers due at the end of the semester in hopes of getting straight A’s. As he saw it, this would be an important affirmation during a period when his extracurricular, social, and romantic prospects were each stagnant and disappointing in their own ways. Wanting control over his final grades but lacking the necessary hours, David turned to Adderrall for the first time.
He’d heard the ADHD medicine could bring on a period of focus and “cranking it out” for as long as ten hours, but, in himself, he found it caused the opposite effect. He sat for hours and hours writing the same sentences over and over, perhaps tweaking a few words each time. Nothing could sound right, he explains, and he could no longer tell what was normal or meaningful. As the Adderrall plan backfired, David realized that the question was not whether he would get straight A’s or fail. It was about whether he would finish the papers at all. 
“Those thoughts just become overwhelming. Just as I couldn’t break free of the cycle of repeating the list of various failures in my mind, in this symmetrical way I couldn’t let go of these sentences in the papers.”


The story of David’s reading week was at heart a story about lost time. 
Time present and time past 
Are both perhaps present in time future, 
And time future contained in time past. 
If all time is eternally present 
All time is unredeemable.



T.S. Eliot, Burnt Norton
Perhaps David felt the burden of the rising cultural pressure that insists that an unproductive minute is a wasted minute you’ll never get back, that all time is unredeemable. 

In the common cultural vendetta against procrastination and the equally intense obsession with efficiency, time is cast as a villain: How dare it just pass like that, cheating us of our earth-given right to, well, infinity? 
Time has never been my villain. But all around me are people convinced that they not only need this lost time but that they have some ultimate right to it. They try to get it back, in part, to redeem themselves. 
Illustrations by Andrew Sotiriou
By Cindy Ok
critical angle.


They set up cycles of cue, action, and reward ending in gifts of food, sex, or fun in exchange for X amount of work. In dorm rooms and offices across the country, as I type these words, an unprecedented number of people are turning to various neuroenhancers like Adderrall and caffeine. They’re using binding programs like Self-control and Freedom to shut down sites like Facebook for up to eight hours. The way to force themselves to write their papers or reports is to “free” themselves of distractions—like modern Odysseuses, preemptively restraining themselves from the sirens they know as Amazon and Netflix Instant.
In 2008, two Yale professors, Dean Karlan (Economics) and Ian Ayres (Law, School of Management), launched a website called stickK, on which clients give Y amount of money over to the company and only get it back once they’ve completed some task Z by a set deadline. Your present (lazy, procrastinating) self bets against your future (potentially satisfied, potentially disappointed) self, and if the former fails, your money goes straight to charity—a deal called a “commitment contract.” There is even an option to send that money to an “anti-charity” for further motivation; a queer activist, for example, may work hard to lose that last pound if she knows her $500 will otherwise go to a Christian fund against same-sex marriage.
These websites, apps, and other ostensible antidotes to procrastination continue to proliferate, in part because procrastination evidently really is on the rise and has been since the seventies. According to one comprehensive study, the vast majority of college students self-report problems with procrastination, perhaps along with the types of existential crises that David underwent his sophomore year. And the general population’s rate quadrupled between 1978 and 2002. 
David’s fear that there fundamentally wasn’t enough time is familiar to me because of its prevalence at a place like Yale. But personally, I can’t relate. I have more often felt that I only have time, that I have endless hours to fill however I decide to. Deadlines never stress me out, but I generally make them anyway; I don’t tell people I don’t have the time to hang out with them, because the fact is that I do if I want to; I manage to have several-hour blocks of leisure time on any given weekday. And I’m acutely aware that these statements could be true for any of my procrastination-prone friends. In fact, I’ve often wondered why they aren’t. 
It seems to me that the self-sabotage imbedded in procrastination is pervasive. The way my friends avoid a paper by skimming Facebook and losing a day to it makes them miserable but happens like clockwork. They continue to need days of doing nothing to proceed the days of writing.  
Distraction from distraction by distraction
Filled with fancies and empty of meaning



Eliot, 1935
Reasons for procrastination like self-doubt, sloth, fatigue, panic, boredom, fear of failure, and fear of success may apply to us as much and as easily as they applied to Eliot’s generation. And yet something has changed. 
The widespread effect of mobile technology and the resulting “frequent and unplanned interruptions, coupled with growing expectations for immediate responses, challenge our cognitive control system at its very core,” suggests Adam Gazzaley, a University of California, San Francisco professor of neurology. Though technology may make us procrastinate more, it also may make the ways in which we procrastinate more obvious. 
Others suggest that the growing culture of continuous multitasking leads to greater distraction. “The more tasks you add, the less efficient your brain is,” Teresa Aubele, Ph.D., and Susan Reynolds write, “and the less likely it is to focus on the most important task.” The neuroscience researcher and science writer, respectively, hold that juggling tasks eventually decreases creativity as well as decision-making and priority-setting abilities. 
Are our addictions to multitasking and technology inherently unhealthy? I’ve never thought to look at the fact that I like to work on four projects at once as a weakness or that I’m always in the middle of reading seven different books as problematic. I see the losses that various technologies have caused as real and significant, but I also see the gains they’ve brought as compensatory. It follows that procrastination need not be altogether detrimental. 
Recently, others have begun to agree with me. Some use the term “intentional delay,” others “positive procrastination,” and not just as euphemisms. The bottom line is: Procrastination has its upsides. Not all time spent procrastinating has to be lost, or even wasted. 
A 2005 study by Jin Nam Choi, Ph.D. distinguished between passive procrastinators and active ones, finding that maintaining agency makes all the difference in terms of stress and effectiveness. The conscious procrastinators who delayed but still completed tasks on time reported the same levels of procrastination as the passive equivalents, but academically, performed basically as well as non-procrastinators (and in some cases even better than them). Actively choosing to take



**Title: Wasting Away**
**Author: Eric Boodman**
**Page number(s): 14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Funding cuts are making tuberculosis cases 
worse and more frequent.


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Cindy Ok**
**Page number(s): 13, 15**

the afternoon off to watch 30 Rock reruns and take a nap 
partially eliminates some of the disadvantages of that 
postponement of work.

One method to streamline this active procrastination 
is an invention of Stanford philosophy professor John 
Perry, what he calls “structured procrastination.” He 
encourages self-deception: Procrastinators should 
complete small, lower-priority jobs to build affirmation 
and energy toward the bigger tasks. In other words, 
postpone that term paper, but catch up on emails or 
on news in the meantime instead of sitting at your desk 
not writing your paper but not doing anything else. It’s 
simply productive procrastination. 

Continuously grieving over the passage of time may 
well be an essentially human state, but there are ways to 
grieve intelligently. 

Researchers point to the benefits of controlled and 
concerted indulgence in procrastination, and any lay-
procrastinator can tell you that a break, whether you 
spend it watching Seinfeld or spend it mind-wandering, 
can make the ensuing hours of work more productive. 

David found himself stuck in loops of words that lacked 
meaning and logic, and fixated on seemingly impossible 
deadlines. He may not clearly have seen the value of 
food breaks his friends were taking, or their practice of 
switching off between subjects. 

And anyway, punishing or disciplining yourself 
over a procrastination problem is not an effective 
way to eliminate the habit. In a recent study, Carleton 
University psychology professor Michael Wohl found 
that those who forgive themselves for one bout of 
procrastination are not only less stressed, but also less 
likely to procrastinate in round two. Because the self-
forgivers were less likely to procrastinate, they also 
performed better. 

Perhaps I do procrastinate, without calling it so—
of course I don’t do every task I know I will have to do 
at the first possible point. My HBO Go account often 
gets top billing, and so does my naptime. But I don’t 
beat myself up over not being perfectly efficient, and 
I’m more relaxed for it (and my apartment is cleaner, 
and dinner with my roommate more delicious). That lost 
time, in other words, isn’t wasted in the end.
Men and bits of paper, whirled by the 	
       cold wind 
That blows before and after time, 
Wind in and out of unwholesome lungs 
Time before and time after.



Eliot
* The names in this article have been changed.
TNJ


M
ariana Ornagua did not seem like the kind 
of patient who would give a doctor trouble. 
She had gone out of her way to be tested for 
tuberculosis in mid-November, waiting in line after her 
English class at the New Haven Adult Education Center 
to see the visiting TB nurse. A few days later, Ornagua 
took more time out of her schedule to get her results. 
The tiny bit of TB protein that had been injected into 
her forearm had raised a dark reddish welt about the 
size of a penny: a sign that the disease was present in her 
body. The nurse told Ornagua that the Winchester Chest 
Clinic could determine whether or not her immune 
system was keeping the disease in check—whether her 
TB was latent or active. She followed the nurse’s advice 
and set up an appointment at the Winchester as soon as 
she could. 

Her cooperation with the medical system continued: 
On November 30, she showed up for her appointment 
at the Winchester, located within Yale-New Haven 
Hospital. When she was given a bright green mask, she 
dutifully put it on and let herself be whisked into an 
examining room. 

Ornagua is a slight woman of thirty-two, with a 
shy smile visible behind a cascade of hair. (To protect 
the patient’s identity, her name has been changed.) To 
most of us, there would be nothing remarkable about 
the image of her sitting in the examining room, her coat 
scrunched in her lap. All she had done was show up for 
a medical appointment. But in the eyes of the medical 
system, her presence at the Winchester on November 
30th was a sign that she could be trusted. 

The populations in the United States who are 
most likely to be infected with TB are the homeless, the 
alcoholic, the drug-addicted, and recent immigrants. If 
you don’t speak English, don’t have a permanent place 
of residence, are juggling two jobs, or have run afoul of 
the law, a hospital is a scary place, with its endless series 
of official forms to fill out and its hierarchy of orderlies, 
nurses, residents, and doctors, all of whom seem to wield 
a God-like power over what happens to your body. Once 
you enter, it seems that you give up whatever autonomy 
you had outside, and so you are unlikely to seek out a TB 
test. If you do get tested and are positive, you are unlikely 
to show up for your appointment. And if you do show 
up for your appointment and have active TB, you are 
unlikely to finish the course of your treatment, because 
the medications will alleviate most symptoms after the 
first couple of weeks and the medications have some 
nasty side effects, including vomiting, stomach aches, 
urine discoloration, extreme lethargy, and a potentially 
fatal inflammation of the liver.

Up to thirty-one percent of recorded TB patients 
X-rays of  patients with TB. Chest x-rays are a key tool for 
diagnosing active forms of  the disease and allow specialists to see 
infection or holes in the lung tissue. 
Creative Commons



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
in the US have refused to come in to their appointments 
or to take medication. For decades now, physicians and 
public health officials have viewed non-compliance as 
the single biggest roadblock in treating this country’s TB 
problem.


Once known as wasting disease, or consumption, 
TB is an infectious disease that has plagued humans 
since the Neolithic era. The disease is transmitted by 
the microscopic beads of liquid we release into the air 
when we cough, sneeze, talk, or laugh. If someone walks 
around with untreated TB, they are likely to spread it 
around their community. This sounds bad enough, but 
it gets worse: If the person has 
begun treatment and allowed it 
to lapse, the disease will have 
had the opportunity to become 
resistant to the drugs prescribed. 
The beads of liquid the person 
emits with each cough or “How 
are you?” then carry a strain of 
TB that the standard regimen of 
drugs cannot cure. Patients who 
don’t take their medication could 
be creating ever-more-invincible 
strains of TB. 
This threat can feel very 
remote. Most of us think of 
TB as a disease conquered by 
antibiotics, an affliction of our 
forebears and of the Third World. 
We cannot imagine anyone in 
our city wasting away because of 
lungs infected with tuberculosis 
bacteria. Yet people all over the US—people like Mariana 
Ornagua—suffer from TB, and their non-compliance 
could have very serious consequences. 
The prospect of a TB epidemic is so scary that 
since the 1990s, the United States has implemented 
a treatment program that squelches any possibility 
of non-compliance. It is called Directly Observed 
Therapy (DOT), and it involves a public health nurse 
meeting up with patients every day to make sure they 
are taking their medication. This lasts between six and 
nine months, and patients have no choice in the matter: 
If they have contagious TB, the law requires them to 
fulfill their treatment. “The nurse doesn’t just ask 
them if they took the pill,” says Dr. Lloyd Friedman, a 
Professor of Pulmonary Medicine at Yale. “She watches 
them take it, and she watches them swallow it. They can 
refuse treatment, but we’ll put ‘em in jail. We’re pretty 
aggressive: If they disappear, we find them.”
The aggressiveness of DOT has brought TB to 
its knees in the United States. The number of people 
infected with active TB is the lowest it has ever been—in 
2011, there were just over 10, 500 reported cases in the 
US, less than a tenth of what it was in 1953 and less than 
half of what it was in 1991. Doctors and public health 
officials credit DOT with those happy statistics.


While DOT may be a public triumph, it can also 
produce private tragedies. With it, doctors and public 
health officials are trying to solve the problem of patients 
disregarding their doctor’s orders. But sometimes the 
doctor’s orders don’t take the patient’s whole situation 
into account. The word “non-compliance” brings to 
mind a hardheaded refusal on the 
patient’s part. Yet more often than 
not, the DOT regimen demands 
a debilitating commitment from 
the patient without providing the 
support that would make such a 
commitment feasible. And as TB 
funding gets cut, public health 
departments have fewer avenues 
to tailor treatment to the patient’s 
needs. 

As 
Ornagua 
waited 
on 
November 30th, Dr. Hilary 
Cain pulled up her chest X-ray 
on a computer in the clinic’s 
conference room. Ornagua’s ribs 
were a series of graceful arcs, 
broken only by the white ghost 
of her heart. But what Cain was 
interested in was an area at the 
top of her right lung.
“An easy sign that things are normal is symmetry, 
and we have asymmetry here,” Cain said, pointing to a 
white lump near Ornagua’s collarbone. It had a pinprick 
of pitch black near its center, which Cain identified as a 
possible cavity created by TB. “If I were looking at this 
in a seventy-year-old smoker, I would say she had lung 
cancer. But in a thirty-two-year-old who doesn’t smoke? 
It certainly raises the suspicion of TB.” 
Before Cain headed into the examining room, Ming 
Lai, the nurse who runs the Winchester’s TB program, 
handed her a turquoise mask like the one Ornagua was 
wearing. These masks—N95—are supposed to block 
out everything larger than 0.3 microns if used properly. 
“The misuse of these N95 respirators may result in 
serious injury or even death,” reads a warning in fine-
print on advertisements for N95.
Cain pulled both straps behind her ears, and molded 
the metal bar to the shape of her nose. “If you can’t 
breathe, you’re wearing it right,” Lai said wryly. This 
small patch of green fabric was all that would protect 
Cain from Ornagua’s germs.


But when she got into the examining room, she 
found that Ornagua herself had not properly put on her 
mask. It was upside down, with one of the straps hanging 
uselessly down her neck and the metal bar resting loosely 
against her chin.  Not wanting to embarrass her patient, 
Cain made no mention of the misuse. “I am Dr. Cain,” 
she said, taking Ornagua’s hand before sitting down 
beside her.
Cain is a tall woman with a quivery voice. Her 
manner is gentle but firm, finely tuned to putting patients 
at ease. This is particularly important when dealing with 
TB patients because of their frequent distrust of the 
medical system. “There is a stigma attached to TB,” she 
told me before she slipped into the examining room. 
“It’s important that the patient knows we’re here to 
support and not to criticize her.” 
Cain felt immediately that Ornagua was a patient 
she could trust. Ornagua was good-natured and polite, 
answering Cain’s questions as best as she could through 
a Spanish-speaking interpreter in the examining room. 
Her hands lay folded on her jacket and purse, which 
were piled in her lap, and she calmly maintained Cain’s 
eye-contact. Every so often, she jiggled her pink and 
white Sketchers, betraying her nervousness, but mostly 
she sat still. 
Cain’s confidence in Ornagua was bolstered even 
further when she heard about Ornagua’s responsibilities. 
Every morning, she got her twelve-year-old son ready 
for school before walking him to the bus-stop. She 
spent the rest of the day balancing domestic duties for 
her family with English classes at New Haven Adult Ed. 
Then, at night, she worked as a cleaning lady in an office 
building. 
Ornagua was not displaying any external TB 
symptoms: She wasn’t coughing, losing weight, getting 
fevers, or being kept up at night by chills and abundant 
sweat. But the lump in Ornagua’s chest was worrisome 
enough for Cain to treat her for active tuberculosis. 
“I’m still concerned that you have active TB, and 
so I’m going to start you on medication,” said Dr. Cain. 
Ornagua nodded. The fact that her lungs were 
infected with a deadly contagious disease didn’t seem to 
scare her much. 
“You’re going to have to stay at home for next two 
weeks. Is that ok?”
This was the first time that Ornagua’s composure 
began to crack, her eyes flicking from Cain to the 
interpreter and back again. “I am in school and I need to 
finish the semester.” Ornagua’s voice was plaintive, but 
the interpreter’s tone stayed even. His expression never 
wavered from its baseline of discreet concern. He kept 
his hands folded demurely in front of him. 
“I’ll give you a note so you don’t have to go to 
school,” said Cain, touching Ornagua’s arm and looking 
her in the eye. “You need to stay at home. It’s very 
important. And when I say stay at home, I mean don’t go 
out at all. No shopping, no laundry. You have to stay in 
your house. We are going to have a nurse come to your 
house every day to bring you your medication. We do 
this for everyone who has TB. It’s not that we don’t trust 
you—these are health department regulations.”
“Ok,” said Ornagua tentatively. 
Cain left to begin filling out a prescription. “She 
seems responsible,” she said to Lai as they passed in the 
hallway. “I think she should come back in a month.” 
Ornagua didn’t drink, use drugs, or live on the street. She 
hardly fit the profile of a non-compliant tuberculosis 
patient. 

But when Lai went into the examining room to 
collect a sample of phlegm for testing, Ornagua said, “I 
can’t honestly tell you that I’m going to stay home.” 

Lai came out to tell Cain, who rushed back into 
the room. She told Ornagua that she would have to be 
admitted to the hospital if she couldn’t stay at home, and 
Ornagua began to cry. 

“You don’t understand,” she told Cain through 
her tears. “I’m going to lose my job. I have to pay the 
rent.” 
When Cain mentioned the possibility of summoning 
a police officer, Mariana became even more upset. She 
had come to New Haven from Ecuador seven years ago. 
Whether or not she had legal status as an immigrant, 
it could be disastrous for her family if a police officer 
showed up at their door. 

Cain and Lai didn’t know what to do. They 
left the examining room and stood huddled in the white 
hallway of the Winchester, discussing their options. 
They couldn’t send her home if they thought she would 
be exposing her community to TB—it would be both 
illegal and unethical. After all, their first duty was to 
make sure that Ornagua didn’t spread the disease. 
But they didn’t want to call the police on her either, 
as they would be endangering the life she’d built in 
Connecticut over the last seven years. Forcibly keeping 
her in the hospital wasn’t much more appealing. Ornagua 
was their patient. Her well-being was their responsibility. 
They were here to help her. But neither of them could 
figure out which course of action would cause the least 
harm. 


The dilemma that Cain and Lai faced was exactly 
the kind of situation that DOT was supposed to 
solve. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention 
(CDC) allocates a budget to each state’s public health 
department to cover TB care and meds. The program 
is designed to preclude a TB epidemic by providing the 
patient with free, humane, personalized treatment. For 
many patients, DOT has been just that. 
If there is anyone who knows about the success of 
DOT in New Haven, it’s Maureen Bruce. Bruce has the 
build of a linebacker, and although her eyes are warm, 
they have a bloodhound’s intensity. From the early 1990s 
until 2009, Bruce was the public health nurse responsible 
for DOT in the city of New Haven. 
Despite her dogged 
personality, 
Bruce 
was, 
to most of her patients, 
like a member of the 
family. Often she would 
go meet her patients at the 
Winchester Chest Clinic 
just 
after 
they’d 
been 
diagnosed with active TB. 
Unless Maureen and her 
colleagues were sure that 
the patients were no longer 
contagious, they would not 
let them leave the hospital. 
(The verdict has changed 
since then: Doctors now 
feel that there is less risk 
of contagion if patients go 
home and stay there, given 
that the people they live 
with have probably already 
been exposed to the disease, 
which is not the case for everyone who comes to the 
hospital.)
Bruce used that first meeting at the Winchester to 
determine how she could find her patients once they 
were released, so that she could make sure they were 
taking their meds. For some that meant visiting their 
house, coming into the living-room. For others, she 
drove to the door of the factory where they worked, and 
they would come out, sit in the front seat of her car, and 
take the pills she gave them. For her homeless patients, 
she would meet them on a street corner or in one of 
New Haven’s shelters; often she would get the shelter to 
bend its rules so that the patient could stay and wait for 
her there after the other sleepers had been kicked out at 
seven AM. 
But her devotion went far beyond meeting up with 
her patients at their preferred spots. She would drive 
them to their doctor’s appointments, take them out for 
coffee and a Danish, bring them groceries, or take care 
of their kids. “I had one man who was homeless,” she 
recalled, “and as long as I had clean socks for him, he 
would go to his doctor’s appointment. I would go to 
BJs, and I would buy bags of socks and keep them in my 
trunk. As long as I had a pair of clean white socks, he 
would get in my car.” Bruce lent another patient enough 
money for her to make the down-payment on a car.
Bruce is not handing out socks anymore. In 2009, 
her position got cut down to just nineteen hours a week, 
and she had to move to another position at the public 
health department to keep working full-time. 
If the position of 
DOT nurse for New Haven 
were still a full-time job, at 
least Lai and Cain could 
have relied on someone 
other than the police to 
check that Ornagua was 
staying at home. But Bruce’s 
replacement only works 
half-days.
And yet, at its root, 
the problem is not one of 
enforcement. Rather, public health officials need to 
make DOT a program that a patient is able to comply 
with freely. If a doctor asks a patient to stay home, that 
means compensating for the patient’s lost salary.
For most Americans, the idea that the state of 
Connecticut pays for Ornagua’s TB meds and care 
is already impressive enough. But there was a time, 
when Bruce was still working as a TB nurse, that the 
Connecticut Department of Public Health would pay 
patients’ rents when they weren’t allowed to go to work. 
That means that they were able to get treatment for TB 
without risking eviction. 
These cuts—of the budget to supplement a patient’s 
rent, of the DOT nurse’s hours—turned out to herald a 
larger trend. This year, the CDC announced even further 



**The Case of Ornagua: Tuberculosis and the Limits of Public Health**
**Author: Eric Boodman**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
February 2013
cuts to the TB budget allocated to each state. 

In the eternal fight for funding, TB lost a 
little ground because numbers of infection have been 
going down. What the people making the budget failed 
to realize is that these funding cuts will make cases like 
Ornagua’s not just more difficult to solve, but also more 
frequent. 

TB experts know all too well what happens when TB 
funding gets cut. The last time there were significant 
cuts was in the late eighties. TB numbers had taken a 
nosedive since the advent of drug therapy in the fifties, 
and with fewer and fewer cases of active TB, American 
public health officials believed they were well on their 
way to eradicating the disease. 

The CDC and other public health 
organizations, always pressed for 
funds, could shift some of their 
TB money to the prevention and 
control of other illnesses. 
Dr. 
Lloyd 
Friedman 
remembers that era well. His desk 
at the Milford Hospital Intensive 
Care Unit is covered in towers of 
articles and patients’ files, which 
are all linked to TB. One can’t 
help but think that his mind might 
look similar: endless reams of TB 
history waiting to be recalled with 
a scrunch of his chiseled face. 
In the late eighties, Friedman was fresh out of med-
school, doing medical screening at a welfare intake center 
in midtown Manhattan. “You go down this assembly 
line,” he said of his patients in his rapid-fire Brooklyn 
accent. “Get your ears tested, your eyes tested, your 
urine tested for drugs, blood drawn, EKG, skin-tests for 
TB, chest x-ray. We were seeing six to seven hundred 
people a day, and at least one case of TB among them.”
To Friedman, that number seemed higher than 
it should have been, and he became increasingly 
concerned that the US was heading into a TB epidemic. 
But the public health officials remained steadfast in their 
belief that TB would soon be a disease of the past, and 
Friedman’s warnings went unheeded. “I came out with 
an abstract describing the problem, and nobody would 
publish it,” Friedman said.
Friedman’s inklings turned out to be right. Looking 
at the data today, you can see a spike in TB numbers 
beginning in the late 1990s and peaking in 1992 and 1993. 
The spike was partially due to the AIDS epidemic, which 
allowed TB to piggyback on the virus’ destruction of 
immune systems, easily infecting people who otherwise 
might have warded the disease off. 
But for Friedman, funding cuts were at the heart 
of the TB epidemic of the 1990s. The cuts meant 
that there was not adequate care for these AIDS-TB 
patients, creating a deadly cycle of transmission. “The 
infrastructure to take care of TB just wasn’t there,” Dr. 
Friedman said. “As soon as the money goes away, then 
the rates go back up.” 
In 1993, the World Health Organization declared 
that there was an international TB crisis. American public 
health officials could no longer ignore the number of 
TB cases within their borders. DOT became a part of 
American public health policy to counter that epidemic. 
As the CDC allocated more TB money to public health 
departments, and as nurses like 
Maureen Bruce began to visit 
patients’ houses, the TB numbers 
began to fall again. By 1996, they 
were lower than they had ever 
been in the United States, and the 
trend has continued. 
But the CDC is now falling 
into the same sinkhole it did 
in the late eighties. Taking the 
success of DOT programs as 
a sign that the disease is on its 
way out, the CDC has made over 
a million dollars in cuts and has 
reorganized the funding so that 
states where TB control has been 
deemed effective are not eligible for as much money as 
they received in the past. 
Lynn Sosa, the deputy epidemiologist at the 
Connecticut Department of Public Health, is worried 
about the implications of these cuts. “There’s still a 
lot of work, and we feel we don’t have all the staff we 
need,” she said in a phone interview. “It means that TB 
patients will fall through the cracks and get more people 
infected. It’s a cycle.”
She sees that cycle progressing on a larger scale 
than just a few individual cases. “Our cases go down, 
we hit a point where they start cutting people, we don’t 
have the resources to maintain that low rate, and so our 
cases go up,” she said. “I see that happening in the next 
five years.”
Epidemiologists like Sosa are in the business of 
reading trends and speaking in statistics. But the problem 
with these funding cuts is not simply that they could 
spark another epidemic. They also fail to acknowledge 
that TB is still a problem for patients like Ornagua, and 
that the medical system is not doing enough to solve 
it. Some doctors have come to view the term “non-
Forcibly keeping her in
 the hospital wasn’t much 
more appealing, but 
neither of them could 
figure out which course 
of action would cause 
the least harm.


compliance” as a form of medical name-calling. It pins 
the blame on the patient, leaving no room to question 
the orders the patient is obliged to follow. There is no 
doubt that contagion needs to be prevented, and in 
DOT public health officials have found a very effective 
way to prevent it. Given that the program’s strength lies 
in the way it can be personalized, it does not seem that 
hard to extend that personalization one step further, so 
that TB treatment helps patients unequivocally, without 
posing any threat to their jobs or their families. Yet to 
do that, the CDC would have to increase TB funding 
instead of cutting it. 

When she went back into the examining room 
to discuss the options with Ornagua, Cain 
understood that forcibly keeping Ornagua in the 
hospital would not only be traumatic, but also pose a 
public health risk. Ornagua’s distrust would only have 
deepened if she were made to stay at the hospital, and 
she would have passed that distrust along to her friends 
and family. In keeping Ornagua in the hospital, Cain 
would essentially have been discouraging other people 
in Ornagua’s community from getting tested for TB.
Ornagua was sitting against the wall, her eyes red 
from crying. “My friend told me not to get this skin-
test,” Ornagua said when she saw Cain. “She said, ‘If 
you get that skin-test and it’s positive, those doctors will 
make trouble for you.’ I did the test because I wanted to 
be a good citizen. Now look at the trouble I’m in.”
Ornagua’s regret was very real. Like her friend, she 
felt that having undiagnosed active TB would have been 
better than being forced into this treatment system which 
could potentially threaten her income and the well-being 
of her family. Despite her exemplary compliance when 
getting tested, in getting the results, and in coming to the 
Winchester, she saw the nurses and doctors at the clinic 
as people who were hurting her rather than making her 
better. 
Cain tried to imagine other solutions that would 
allow Ornagua to stay home without losing her job. 
She asked Ornagua if she had family or friends who 
could take her shifts at the office building. Ornagua 
said that she lives with her husband and sister, each of 
whom already works two jobs. They just didn’t have 
time to add other tasks to their list. But Cain pressed 
on: Perhaps they could take over for Ornagua, just until 
the TB medication took effect and she was no longer 
contagious? Wasn’t that better than being kept in the 
hospital or having the police show up? 
Framed that way, there was no question. Ornagua 
agreed. Her husband would find the time to clean the 
office building at night, and her sister would take over 
whatever household tasks that required leaving the 
house.  Ornagua would stay home and wait for the 
DOT nurse to give her the prescribed meds. Calmer 
now, Ornagua provided a sample of phlegm, and was 
allowed to leave. 
But the case still bothered Cain when I went to talk 
it over with her at her office a week later. She pointed 
out that the DOT system in place was very good at 
protecting the general public from TB, but that it could 
be tragically detrimental to the patient.
“In medicine, we have these multiple agendas,” said 
Cain. “We are fixing the physiology that’s wrong, but we 
have to fix it in the context of a patient’s life. Really, their 
family becomes our patient.” That was why she decided 
to send Ornagua home, hoping that she would keep her 
word and not go out. “I chose to believe her. But I’m 
still not sure that that was the right judgment.” 
TNJ
Eric Boodman is a sophomore in Branford College.



**High Water**
**Author: Juliana Hanle**
**Page number(s): 21**

personal essay.
High Water
By Juliana Hanle
Juliana Hanle
Over the course of  three days the author 
fasts, drinks, and hikes into the feet of  the Sierras.
I 
might have had fifteen dollars after I paid the train 
fare. I surely didn’t have enough for a four-day road 
trip in the Sierras. But after half a summer in an 
office downtown, I craved pine and dark earth, laurel 
and thrush. For three days I hardly ate. Beer served as 
my bread, my meat, and my milk. Fasts, I’d been told, 
clarify the mind, channeling streams of thought into a 
single still pool.
At Modesto, my friend Abby* and I descended from 
the train. The sun of high summer pulled out sweat on 
my chest. Abby’s fast-talking curly-haired cousin showed 
up half an hour later with three friends. She drove us 
to the canyon where kids liked to smoke up. I watched 
rows of lush, green crops sweep by like grocery aisles. At 
some intersections, dusty flats pressed up catty-corner 
to the ranches. I thought of all the carrots and cheese 
and strawberries and meat that shipped out from this 
region. We passed through the cousin’s town, moving 
in the width of a wall from dry groundcover to water 
fountains and grass lawns and back. We drove up into 
the canyon, past the boulder locals had spray-painted, 
past a car wreck, up to where the road climbs into a pass, 
and pulled over. When we climbed down, we saw that 
there was nearly no water in the creek bed. 
We left Modesto later with Tess, Abby’s friend from 
the previous summer who worked in the Forest Service. 
We slept those first two nights in the Stanislaus Forest 
on the floor of a ranger’s hut. My remaining money got 
me two slices of the first day’s pizza and beer. Abby and 
Tess had come out for a nostalgia trip and I had come 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Juliana Hanle**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Juliana Hanle is a senior in Davenport College 
and an Editor-in-Chief of The New Journal.

By the time we had 
decided to birthday suit a 
swim in a small, dammed 
pool nearly in the basin of  
one of  the Stan’s valleys I 
had begun to feel as if  I 
was contracting, pulling 
out from my limbs.
along for the land. Neither of the girls had money to 
spare—Abby and I lived off a tight stipend. I’m not sure 
if they would have bought me food even had I asked. 
By the time we had decided to birthday suit a swim in 
a small, dammed pool nearly in the basin of one of the 
Stan’s valleys, I had begun to feel as if I was contracting, 
pulling out from my limbs and gathering in around my 
core. The pool lay a couple hundred feet above the valley 
floor. It was small—maybe twenty feet squared, and 
shallow. The water sat muddy and opaque. 

That night we dined on the 
shore of another small reservoir. 
A few stumps stood in the water, 
their caps clear of the lake. I 
perched on one, my feet drawn 
in and a brew in hand. For the 
next two days I would alternate 
between porter and stout. The 
first few times I had a Deschutes 
stout it was delightful—thick like 
a milkshake and bitter as collard 
greens. I felt its weight moving 
down me. I gripped the brown 
glass and wondered how badly the 
high water affected these woods. 
Below me, did roots soften and 
swell, split and lose the sense of 
their construction? The trees of 
the Sierras stand like the piers 
of a cathedral. Below them, the lake looked as odd as a 
warehouse floor in place of marble.

The valley we had hiked that day runs parallel to 
and north of both Yosemite Valley and her twin, Hetch 
Hetchy Valley. Since 1923, Hetch Hetchy’s three-mile-
long granite basin has lain below the Bay Area’s largest 
reservoir. Glacial valleys form in U-shapes, but this one, 
I realized atop my stump, must be sheered off.

The next day, we drove out of the Stanislaus, north. 
I watched the colors and rocks grow stronger, colder, 
and more severe as we ascended to the crest, which was 
still capped by snow in the middle of July. Down out 
of Sonora Pass, now in the desert, we passed through a 
gold rush ghost town. The old wooden houses were so 
thoroughly dried by the high winds that they looked like 
the dust that they lay upon. At the edge of the bowl in 
which the village sits stood a few elbows of rusted steel, 
bent like monumental skeletal arms. They must have 
been leaning over the hollow wells. It took me an hour 
to properly think about them. I seemed to be pulling 
deeper into some point below my chest.

That evening we drank again on the shores of a 
lake. Mono Lake is twice as salinic as any ocean, and 
it supports an ecosystem of just three organisms: 
algae, shrimp, and birds. The salt builds up in bulbous 
growths, constructing columns fifteen feet high in 
a weak, pasty grey. I looked out at the cold land and 
moved very little. My mind felt rather like those waters: 
still, accruing monstrous structures in its inactivity. My 
friends bought themselves dinner at the one restaurant 
in town. They were hungry, but I got a few fries. In the 
high altitude desert, temperatures were going to fall to 
just above freezing that night. We couldn’t sleep in the 
car. Abby ground up one of her 
blue ADHD pills, snipped about 
an inch and a half off her soda 
straw, and motioned how to 
snort the blue powder. So jazzed 
on her medication that we half-
decided to drive to Reno, Abby, 
Tess, and I followed some of the 
restaurant’s employees to a bar 
twenty miles away. In the very late 
hours of that night we walked 
a half-mile down a boardwalk 
over an enormous flat, grey 
and even wider, it seemed, than 
Mono Lake. I focused on moving 
forward. The boardwalk ended 
at a crater, which bubbled with 
sulphurous water. We stripped.

The hot water seemed to 
push at my flesh. I imagined my internal organs pressing 
together, my lungs straining from the pressure. I 
breathed light and fast. I felt like I was at the center of a 
balloon, ready to give. My fingers trembled and I slipped 
in the volcanic basin. I couldn’t feel the sides. 
Abby helped me rise and cool off in the desert. She 
pushed two of my fingers together and said “just shove 
them down.” But there was nothing to come up. 

On the return trip to the city the sky over the valley 
was thick and brown. I thought of the canyon and the 
lake and hot springs, and then I thought of the water. I 
would be ill for a few days. As I lay sweating on my cot 
the same murky thoughts washed through me. People 
lay waste to the land as they lay waste to themselves.
* The names in the piece have been changed.


**Title: One-On-One**
**Author: Christopher Peak**
**Page number(s): 24**

A New Haven detective brings the gangs 
to him, offering an open hand.



**Title: A Detective's Journey**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The night of Friday, June 17, 2006, was beautiful 
and warm as detective Al Vazquez and his 
partner drove through New Haven. The day’s 
work had been quiet, until they got a call over the radio, 
a disembodied voice saying a shooting had occurred in 
the Dwight neighborhood west of downtown. When he 
arrived at the scene, Vazquez was shocked to find EMTs 
wheeling a little black girl on a gurney. He watched as a 
paramedic hunched over her, vigorously pumping her 
chest. Vazquez didn’t need his decade of experience 
to know she was nearing death. Her name was Jajuana 
Cole. She was 13. 

Around 11 p.m., Jajuana had been standing with 
Krystal Hammet, 13, outside of a party where they 
had some older friends. Three teenagers from the ‘Ville 
gang—a group modeled after Los Angeles’ Crips—
drove down the street and noticed a member of a rival 
gang near the girls. Daniel Carter, 18, who was carrying 
a chrome handgun as he drove by, allegedly said, “There 
go some of them.” The boys parked on an adjacent 
block and took a shortcut through an alley. Tremayne 
Sanders, 16, had a black handgun, and Lamont Swint, 
17, had a video camera. 

Vazquez says the film Lamont shot is almost entirely 
black, with only pixelated silhouettes and muffled voices. 
Through the darkness, Krystal screams first: “Please 
don’t shoot!” The muzzle of a gun flashes about a dozen 
times. Then, Jajuana’s voice: “Oh my God, no!” The 
camera lowers to the ground as the boys run back to 
their getaway car. Carter mumbles, “I think I shot a girl.” 
The recording stops.

Krystal, whose back and leg had been grazed by 
bullets, dragged her friend to the second-floor landing 
of an apartment building. She cradled her friend while 
Jajuana pleaded, “Don’t let me die, don’t let me die.” 
Blood stained the floor. Paramedics arrived within 
minutes to take Jajuana to Yale-New Haven Hospital. 
Krystal begged to go to the same hospital, but the 
EMTs refused. Vazquez reached the scene as the girls 
were loaded into separate ambulances. The sight of the 
injured young girls reminded him of his own daughter. 
Anyone watching Vazquez that night could not have 
known the shock and sadness and anger that lurked in 
his gut. He went about his work methodically: he asked 
the officers if there had been witnesses, and from the 
growing crowd, found a girl who had seen the incident 
and had been hit with shrapnel. Vasquez then called 
for another ambulance, and instructed an officer to 
stay with her. When he retells the story, his voice grows 
louder: “Do not leave her side,” he told the cop. “No 
one else talks with her. Stay with her.” 

Jajuana died early the next morning. Her mother 
did not have the $795 to pay for a tombstone to mark 
her grave at Evergreen Cemetery. Vazquez broke his 
one rule he had never broken before: He promised the 
mother he would bring the murderers to justice. He 
interviewed the targeted gang member, informants, and 
eyewitnesses, and within thirty-six sleepless hours, he 
had arrested four teenagers, who all either confessed or 
informed on each other. Carter, who fired the fatal shot, 
is serving a forty-year sentence in prison. 

Six years later, in November 2012, Vazquez broke 
his rule against making promises for the second time 
in his career. Participating in Project Longevity, a new 
initiative to prevent gang violence, Vazquez promised 
gang members that if they killed one more person, 
each would be punished to the fullest extent of the 
law, pursued by the combined forces of local, state, 
and federal authorities. Vazquez’s thinking has changed 
considerably since his early days on the police force. 
Where he once saw gang members as an evil force to be 
locked away, he now sees them as a group of misguided 
teenagers who lost their way, paying for mistakes with 
their lives.

Project Longevity is the latest initiative in the 
New Haven Police Department’s effort to improve 
its engagement with the community. Since returning 
to New Haven in 2011, Chief Dean Esserman has 
reinstated community policing, a model of partnership 
with community members Esserman helped craft as 
deputy chief in the early 1990s. Like many of Esserman’s 
recent projects, Project Longevity is not just punitive: 
It offers gang members the social services they might 
need to escape from a life of crime. Like Vazquez, the 
police department’s leadership now realizes that merely 
incarcerating gang members will not stop the violence, 
and they hope that these young men will take the escape 
route offered. But Vazquez knows he will have to follow 
through with a crackdown if shootings continue. If he 
does not, senseless deaths like Jajuana’s will continue to 
occur.

“Those images never escape you,” Vazquez says, 
as he remembers Jajuana’s little body on the gurney. He 
blinks, as if to push back tears from shining eyes.


Vazquez could easily have been one of the 
shooters—or maybe the target—that night in June. 
Seargent Al Vazquez sits at his desk in the New Haven Police 
Department Headquarters.
Opposite page: photo by Emilie Foyer


But from a young age, he avoided life in a gang, rejecting 
any of the attractions that the life might have offered, in 
order to pursue his dream of becoming a police officer. 
Born in Middletown, Conn., in 1968, he spent his 
childhood shuttling back and forth between Puerto Rico 
and New England. Unable to support him financially, 
his parents sent their two-year-old son to live with an 
aunt in Puerto Rico. After four years he returned to 
Middletown, but his mother and father fought often. 
They separated when Vazquez was ten years old, and he 
travelled back to Puerto Rico.

“I always wanted to be a cop,” Vazquez tells me. He 
fantasized about catching the “bad guys,” accelerating a 
police car with lights flashing and sirens shrieking. Either 
in spite of or because of his chaotic childhood, Vazquez 
saw the world in absolute terms of good and evil, and he 
dedicated his life to being on the 
right side of the divide.

From the moment he entered 
middle school in Puerto Rico, 
Vazquez was pressured to join a 
gang. He desperately needed the 
money the lifestyle could provide, 
but he resisted their advances 
and was severely and constantly 
beaten for it. Instead, he took a 
job in construction during school 
vacations. Houses in Puerto 
Rico were built anywhere space 
was available, sometimes even 
on the edge of a cliff, so almost 
all the construction had to be 
done manually. As a 12-year-
old, Vazquez carried 50-pound 
buckets of cement up a ladder to lay as the roof. The 
labor was exhausting, but Vazquez was satisfied that he 
made his money honestly. His classmates, who viewed 
him as an outsider, referred to him as the “gringo.” 

In 1985, Vazquez moved to New Haven, where 
he has lived ever since. Neither of his parents could 
afford to take him in, so he was forced into a foster 
home. He enrolled in Wilbur Cross High School, 
where gang members again tried to lure him into their 
lifestyle. They told him he had to sell drugs for them 
in the projects near Ashmun and Webster, which have 
since been demolished and are now the site of the Yale 
Police Department headquarters. Once, when Vazquez 
refused to participate, a gang member pulled a knife 
on him. Rather than back down, Vazquez prepared to 
fight him with his bare hands. Luckily, an older gang 
member intervened, telling the youngster, “Don’t touch 
him. Leave him alone.” Vazquez was so adamant in his 
rebuffs that gangs eventually stopped trying to persuade 
him.

Role models were rare in New Haven’s foster 
homes and projects. Today, Vazquez says he wishes 
the department had implemented community policing 
when he was young. He wishes there had been a local 
cop, with whom he could have shared his difficulties, 
someone he could have emulated. I ask Vazquez why he 
was never tempted by the security and money joining a 
gang could offer. He thinks for a moment. “I really don’t 
know. I guided myself through. Sometimes answers are 
simplistic.”

Vazquez worked multiple part-time jobs to support 
himself, first as an attendant at a Mobil gas station and 
later as a mechanic at a Mercedes-Benz dealership. When 
he turned twenty-one, he applied to be a police officer. 
He was the first in his family to 
enter a career in law enforcement. 
He passed the written, physical, 
and oral exams, and with thirty-
two others, all raised in New 
Haven, Vazquez was sworn in as a 
police officer on January 21, 1992.

His 
first 
patrol 
sent 
him on a walking beat in the 
Dwight-Kensington district, the 
neighborhood where he would 
one day investigate Jajuana’s 
murder. Esserman’s community 
policing put cops on foot or 
bicycle on beats around the 
city instead of in patrol cars to 
descend on crime hot spots. 
“We are not exchanging hugs for 
handcuffs. We are doing both,” Esserman told me. “We 
are building relationships on both sides of that badge.” 
When he first pioneered the model between 1990 and 
1997, crime in New Haven fell by forty-one percent, 
compared to a ten percent drop in crime nationally. 
Abandoned houses lined the blocks of Vazquez’s 
beat, providing hideouts for gangs and places to stash 
drugs and guns. Two groups dominated the area: the 
Kensington Street Internationals and the Ghostbusters. 
Corny as their names were, the gangs were ferociously 
dangerous. Once, Vazquez and a partner were walking 
their beat when shooting broke out at an intersection 
and the pair was caught in the crossfire. They could 
not see any shooters, and the echo of shots bouncing 
between the houses prevented them from locating the 
bullets’ origin. Vazquez ducked behind a car and called 
for backup, but all he could do was wait for the gangs’ 
ammunition to run out.


Using one of his favorite and oft-repeated phrases, 
Vazquez says he was “full of piss and vinegar” in those 
early years as an officer. After witnessing violence during 
high school, he was eager to clean up the streets of New 
Haven. At the time, he thought that meant “running 
after the drug dealers, the gangbangers, and the shooters, 
locking them up, seizing the guns and the drugs, and 
putting them behind bars.” Though he would later 
realize the situation on the streets was far more complex 
than that, Vazquez spent his rookie days thinking he was 
a soldier in an enduring battle against evil. Discord had 
broken his family, but Vazquez would not let lawlessness 
do the same to his city. He fought back this time, fiercely, 
as he assailed gangs with one arrest after another.

After a few years of walking a beat, Vazquez was 
recruited back to headquarters in 1996 for a 
temporary assignment to the detective bureau, the 
unit he would later oversee. Patrol officers routinely 
worked stints as investigators to get a taste of detective 
work, but also so the detectives, who Vazquez calls the 
“old-timers,” could have a connection to informants 
on the street. Vazquez was initially hesitant about his 
placement, thinking he would hate the work. Detective 
work is much slower-paced than a cop’s. After going 
from a uniform to a suit, you have to work methodically, 
thinking constantly about your next move rather than 
reacting to whatever the street throws at you.

“There you have it: the dead body. Figure it out,” 
he tells me. Sometimes you have eyewitnesses and 
sometimes you have nothing. On one chilly January night 
when temperatures sank into the negatives, Vazquez 
found a body in a parking lot with a gunshot wound to 
the head. Years later, the case is still cold. Other times, 
as with Jajuana’s homicide, you have eyewitnesses and 
suspects immediately, and the case can be closed in 
hours.

At the end of his three months, Vazquez had solved 
twelve of the sixteen cases he had been assigned. His 
new boss wanted him to stay on as a detective, but his 
union contract forced him back to a beat. Eventually, a 
compromise was reached and Vazquez joined the drug 
enforcement task force.

Vazquez says his first days as a detective gave him 
a new worldview. Although he did encounter cases like 
Jajuana’s, in which crime destroyed the life of an innocent 
person, the situation was often morally complex. Many 
of the homicides resulted from gunfights between gang 
members: chance alone determined who was the victim 
and who was the murderer. In some cases, the victim 
was a murderer himself. The categories of good and 
evil that he had sorted the world into suddenly seemed 
overly romantic. It was often kids he was chasing down, 
young men who had fallen into gangs because the city 
offered them no alternative. “You realize it’s a different 
game,” he says now. “Nothing is that easy, that simple, 
that straightforward.” Though his investigations into 
crimes like child abuse deepened his awareness of how 
cruel people can be, Vazquez changed his objective. Life 
was more complicated than being a crusader for good 
against evil. He now aimed to protect “the innocent, the 
weak, and the deprived,” which included not only law-
abiding residents like Jajuana, but also gang members 
who had made a few wrong choices.

Sometimes Vazquez is overwhelmed by each 
day’s cases. “People don’t realize the extent of evil in 
the world,” he tells me. He almost never discusses his 
work with his wife Ada or with his children. Unlike his 
tumultuous childhood, Vazquez wants to keep his family 
safe and secluded from what he has seen. But sometimes 
the silence worries Ada. When Vazquez leaves after a 
midnight call, she sits up, wondering if he is all right. 
“Every time he walks out the door, I say a little prayer,” 
Ada tells me. “It’s nerve-wracking.” When her stress 
gets too high, she calls him, and he reassures her, “Don’t 
worry. We’re still out here looking for the guy.”

A year after Jajuana was murdered, Vazquez 
investigated the June 2007 killing of Angel Rovira. 
Mitchell Joyner, 17, approached Rovira as Rovira walked 
home from work. A native of Puerto Rico, Rovira did 
not understand Mitchell’s demands for his gold chain, 
so he kept walking. Mitchell pulled out a semi-automatic 
handgun and fired two shots into Rovira’s back, hitting 
an artery in his heart. The victim ran to his apartment 
building a block away and fell down at the entrance. His 
wife and his four-year-old son found the body. 

Rovira’s father flew to New Haven from Puerto 
Rico and began searching for the killer himself. When 
Vazquez heard this from informants on the street, he 
worried Rovira’s father would lose his life, too. Vazquez 
sat the family down and told them to not interfere. The 
father objected. Vazquez might have easily defused 
tensions with a promise to find the killer, but he was 
unwilling to break his rule. 

Vazquez had information that pointed to Mitchell 
as the killer, but he needed a direct confession. In an 
interrogation that he said felt like running a marathon, 
Vazquez took advantage of Mitchell’s remorse. The 
teenager sobbed as he admitted he pulled the trigger. 
“I can’t believe I just got this kid to tell me he did it,” 
Vazquez thought, as he put the boy in handcuffs. He was 
working not against the abstract, innumerable forces of 
gangs, but against one 17-year-old boy with true regret 
in his eyes. Vazquez felt no joy. He felt like the bad guy.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Emilie Foyer**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I first meet Al Vazquez on a snowy November evening 
at the police department’s headquarters. His dark 
brown skin is striking against his white button-down. The 
first lines of silver mark his hair and the thin mustache 
above his lips. He looks tired. The night before, he woke 
up just after midnight to a phone call informing him of 
a shooting and a baby’s accidental death. He rests his 
hand on his holster as we ride the elevator to his third-
floor office. Most of the other cubicles are empty, but 
the phones continue ringing nonstop.

Vazquez has been nervously awaiting the verdict 
in the trial of Troy Jackson for the 2007 murder of 
Julian Ellis. With community policing restored under 
Esserman, the department is aiming for a personal 
connection with the community. After five years of 
negotiation, Vazquez had convinced a woman to step 
forward as a key witness for the Jackson trial, even 
though she was deeply concerned 
about retaliation. When I first met 
Vazquez, he was on the phone with 
her, reassuring her and offering 
to meet at the courthouse before 
she was set to testify the next 
morning. His two other witnesses 
are less upstanding citizens: both 
are currently incarcerated. One, 
who is doing time for drug-
related charges, “went south” last 
week, and now denies his earlier 
testimony, presumably after being 
threatened by Jackson’s gang while 
in prison. He recanted his 2010 
statement where he identified Jackson as Julian’s killer. 
“The detective”—Vazquez—“told me what to say.” “He 
gave you all the details?” the state’s prosecutor asked. 
“Yes.”

In November 2011, Esserman, who had served as 
deputy police chief when Vazquez joined the force but 
most recently worked as Chief of Police in Providence, 
R.I, was called back to New Haven. As the fourth chief 
in three and a half years, Esserman had his work cut out 
for him. The department had gained a reputation for 
brutality and corruption, an enemy to the community 
it was supposed to protect and serve. The number of 
homicides was skyrocketing, tying the record for the 
most murders in one year. By the end of 2011, thirty-four 
had been murdered, and 122 had been shot. And after 
years of attrition and poor management, the department 
was severely understaffed. Frank Cochran, the current 
chair of the Civilian Review Board, said the department 
has had trouble recruiting officers from New Haven, a 
legacy of its former resistance to collaborating with the 
community. Vazquez currently has only thirty-eight of 
the sixty-one detectives that are supposed to fill his unit. 
In overseeing the division, he is doing the work of a 
lieutenant, but due to gaps in the department hierarchy, 
he remains at the lower rank of sergeant.

With community policing and Project Longevity, 
Esserman is applying strategies he used to reduce crime 
when he was chief in Providence, focusing on the small 
groups responsible for most of the city’s gun violence, 
rather than targeting everyone in certain neighborhoods 
as potential lawbreakers. “I am not bringing a new 
message or style to New Haven. I am bringing back the 
old New Haven policing.” Esserman told me. When 
he was deputy chief in New Haven, Esserman had 
created Connecticut’s first gang task force in the hopes 
of negotiating with rival gang leaders to end conflicts 
before their arguments became deadly. “We were one 
of the centers of American 
progressive policing,” Esserman 
says. 

As one of many changes 
to the department’s leadership, 
Esserman promoted Vazquez 
to head the department’s Major 
Crimes Unit in April 2011, 
giving him responsibility for 
supervising the investigation of 
all homicides and shootings that 
occur in the Elm City. “He is one 
of the best detectives I have ever 
met,” Esserman told me. “If I, 
God forbid, ever had a family 
member who was a victim of a crime, I would want Sgt. 
Vazquez on the case. I know he would bring justice to 
my family.”

Vazquez had often criticized the strategies former 
chiefs implemented to fight against gangs, but they 
refused to listen to his suggestions. Yet he and a few 
others like Assistant Chief Luiz Casanova, who Vazquez 
trained seventeen years ago, never stopped practicing 
Esserman’s strategies. “Community policing is the only 
way to do policing,” Vazquez says. ““There is a mentality 
that police work is just responding to calls. But there is 
more than that.” Vazquez has been more than happy to 
oversee the implementation of community policing in 
his unit. So far, it has been working: Last year, shootings 
and homicides fell by nearly half. This year, there have 
been five non-fatal shootings, while by the time in 2012, 
there had been eleven.

Yet the city’s gangs have not entirely disappeared. 
Yale University researchers working with the police have 


“We are not exchanging 
hugs for handcuffs. We are 
doing both,” Esserman 
told me. “We are building 
relationships on both sides 
of  that badge.


**Title: The New Journal (Continued)**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

identified nineteen active gangs with nearly six hundred 
members, some of whom have already been incarcerated 
in recent sweeps. As the police department’s structure 
changes, the gangs also adapt, moving their operations 
underground. They no longer perform drug deals on 
street corners as they did in the 1990s, but instead tell 
customers to call a middleman who will set up a deal. 
Their technology is more sophisticated. They have 
heavier firepower and clever new ways of storing drugs 
in cars’ hidden compartments.

Still, Esserman’s community policing model has been 
working so far. In January, after days of deliberation—
usually a bad sign, Vazquez feared—the jury in Troy 
Jackson’s murder case returned a guilty verdict. Jackson 
raised his chin to the ceiling, as if readying for a noose, 
while the jury forewoman read him his crime: guilty of 
murder in the shooting of Julian Ellis. Another juror 
cried softly. In mid-February, Vazquez listened intently 
as the judge read Jackson his sentence of sixty years in 
prison.

Vazquez’s changed perceptions of the gang 
members are epitomized in Project Longevity, 
where community policing is taken to its logical end. 
It communicates directly with gang members, treating 
them as equal members of the community, where before 
they had been the enemy, terrorists, outsiders in their 
own neighborhoods.

At the end of last November, U.S. Attorney 
General Eric Holder, Gov. Dannel Malloy, and Sen. 
Richard Blumenthal gathered with local leaders in the 
tallest building in New Haven, the Connecticut Financial 
Center, to announce the start of Project Longevity. The 
comprehensive plan combined aid from social service 
providers — the carrot — with the punitive force of 
police, prosecutors, and the U.S. Attorney General — 
the stick. Similar programs have successfully reduced 
gun violence in neighborhoods in Boston, Chicago, and 
Cincinnati, the project’s backers say.

“Project Longevity will send a powerful message to 
those who would commit violent crimes targeting their 
fellow citizens that such acts will not be tolerated and 
that help is available for all those who wish to break the 
cycle of violence and gang activity,” Holder said from 
the podium. 

A key tactic for Project Longevity is the “call-in,” a 
sit-down meeting between gang members, social service 
providers, and law enforcement. On a Monday evening in 
November, the Hall of Records was likely the safest and 
most dangerous place in the city as twenty-five members 

Victims of  violence: Jajuana Cole (pictured in the two 
photographs on the left) was killed as a bystander during a bout 
of  gang violence in 2007, and Julian Ellis (pictured in the two 
photographs on the right) was shot by a rival gang member in 
2006.
Photos courtesy of the Cole and Ellis families


**Title: Project Longevity**
**Author: Christopher Peak**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
February 2013
of two rival gangs filed in for separate meetings. No 
longer relying on sweeps to incarcerate gangbangers, 
Project Longevity offered them a choice. It saw the 
teenagers seated before Vazquez as empowered moral 
actors, able to choose the right path if offered to them. 
Cards were distributed, printed with one telephone 
number that could set up any social service necessary: 
job training, substance abuse therapy, counseling. 
Though he says he is normally shy as a public 
speaker, Vazquez delivered an ultimatum to the 
gang members from the Newhallville and Dwight 
neighborhoods. “I am sick and tired of the calls,” he said 
to the groups. Vazquez laid out the two different paths 
gang members could take: One could save their lives; the 
other would lead them to rot in prison. If a single gang 
member is implicated in a shooting or homicide, local, 
state, and federal authorities will increase surveillance on 
each member of the gang. He could see the hurt in the 
young boys’ eyes as he spoke. “Aren’t you tired of doing 
this? You’re killing yourselves,” he told them.


After the first call-in, only three attendants called 
Project Longevity’s service providers, but the city’s 
violence quieted, with no homicides recorded between 
November and mid-January. The week of the second 
call-in, two people were killed: one in a botched 
commercial robbery that detectives are still pursuing 
leads, and one in a gang-related robbery that Vazquez’s 
unit quickly solved. (Vazquez could not disclose the 
name or gang of the suspect, since he is a juvenile.)


Yet some are betting against Vazquez’s hopes 
for Project Longevity, arguing that the program 
offers nothing new. Scot X. Esdaile, President of the 
Connecticut NAACP, told me that police have done 
stings on gangs for years. “I question the longevity 
of this project,” Esdaile told me. “The anti-violence 
initiatives last for a year or so, they start parading around, 
and then the violence comes back.” In the 1990s, 
Esdaile says police promised an end to violence when 
they locked up members of the Jungle Boys. But the 
shootings did not stop. Police went after the Kensington 
Street Internationals. Then the Island Brothers. Then 
the Newhallville Dogs. The strategy did not work. The 
city continued to bury its young. The solution, Esdaile 
says, is not only law enforcement and social services, but 
also jobs. “It is imperative politicians bring back jobs 
to urban areas,” he told me. “It’s the same situation in 
Chicago, in Detroit, Hartford, Bridgeport, New Haven.” 
He is especially concerned about the false hope Project 
Longevity’s social services may offer. If a boy “cuts 
his hair, gets rid of his dreadlocks, pulls up his pants, 
and shines his shoes,” but still can’t find a job, Esdaile 
worries he may return to the street bitter and more jaded 
than before.


But Vazquez and the department believe this time 
is different: with the backing of the community’s leaders 
and service providers, the police department is no longer 
cracking down on gangs alone. They are not hoping to 
lock up every one of the city’s gang members: they goal 
of Project Longevity is that they will not have to lock 
up anyone. 


Vazquez sat in the audience at the second call-in. 
After the talks ended, he spoke to one man in his late 
twenties, whom Vazquez had met years before. The man 
was hunched over from a back injury. “I don’t know why 
I’m here,” the man said in Spanish, adding that he had 
abandoned gang life long ago. Vazquez told him Project 
Longevity could provide medical aid for his back pain 
and any other help he needed. Not everyone was there 
because they were still involved in gangs. “We want you 
to hear the message,” Vazquez told him, “and we want 
you to bring the message to your boys.”


Vasquez wanted to help them, and he was 
optimistic some would change. But he also knew that 
just one failure was likely to undo an entire group. He 
didn’t want to bring the force he had gathered against 
the boys, but he knew he would soon have to. In an odd 
take on the prisoners’ dilemma, where two prisoners 
have been replaced by the police department and the 
city’s gangs, each side has entered into mutual promises; 
each side depends on the other not abusing its trust. It’s 
a significant gamble, bet with the lives of New Haven 
residents: if successful, Project Longevity may save 
people like Jajuana Cole, Angel Rovira and Julian Wells, 
but if the violence continues, police will need to devote 
already strained resources to monitoring the killer’s 
group. 


“If these kids failed to take advantage of what had 
been offered, I have to do what I have sworn to do for 
twenty-one years: uphold the law,” Vazquez tells me. 
“Whether I like it or not, I will do what I have sworn 
to do.”


But more than simply a gamble with the city’s 
safety, Vazquez is making a wager about human nature. 
Vazquez wants to believe that if given a chance, people 
are fundamentally good, that if things had somehow 
been different for Daniel Carter, Mitchell Joyner, and 
Troy Jackson, none of them would have pulled the 
trigger. Vazquez’s faith may seem ideal—quixotic, 
even—from one who has held the dying and sat across 
from their straight-faced killers. 


With so much at stake, we can only hope he is right.
TNJ
Christopher Peak is a senior in Morse College.



**Title: Stearner Stuff**
**Author: Kamaria Greenfield**
**Page number(s): 32**

Stephen Stearns, the Edward P. Bass Professor of  Ecology and 
Evolutionary Biology at Yale, sits in his office on Science Hill.
profile.


**Title: The Biggest Figure in Modern Evolutionary Biology**
**Author: Bijan Stephen**
**Page number(s): 33**

“S
tearns, this is bad philosophy and it’s bad 
science. Defend yourself.” 
It’s the early 1970s, in a small classroom 
at the University of British Columbia. Halfway around 
the world, the Vietnam War rages on. In our quiet corner 
of Canada, however, there’s nothing but the sound of 
agitated footsteps as Stephen Stearns ’67 paces, waiting 
to know whether his outrageous Ph.D. proposal will be 
accepted. The topic is the main problem: Essentially, 
what Stearns has written proposes the formalization 
of a completely new area of evolutionary biology—life 
history evolution.


If the committee decides against him, his career as a 
scientist is finished before it’s even really begun.


L
ife history evolution theory defines the stages of 
organisms’ lives and aims to explain why they invest 
different amounts of time and energy in development, 
fertility and death. Organisms allocate limited resources 
intelligently—energy used for foraging, for example, 
may decrease the amount available for reproduction. 
Researchers study traits including age of maturity, 
age at first reproduction, number of offspring per birth, 
and duration of juvenile development. Natural selection, 
the theory says, ultimately works to ensure the largest 
possible number of surviving offspring.


In a sentence, life history theory is the realm of 
biology that tells the story of life itself. 
Currently the Edward P. Bass Professor of Ecology 
and Evolutionary Biology at Yale, Stearns has made 
some of the most significant contributions to the field. 
Just last year, he and his collaborators found evidence 
that humans are still evolving. They analyzed existing 
data from a long-term study and concluded that women 
are evolving to “be on average slightly shorter and 
stouter, to have lower total cholesterol levels and systolic 
blood pressure, to have their first child earlier, and to 
reach menopause later than they would in the absence 
of evolution.” In other words, they found that selection 
is making sure we have more opportunities to reproduce.


“I walked up and down in the hall for forty-five 
minutes while they talked,” Stearns says, referencing his 
extended wait while the Ph.D. committee made their 
final decision. “The usual time was five to ten minutes.”


It’s a frosty afternoon in January, one of the coldest 



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
--- Page 34 ---

34
The New Journal
days we’ve seen this year. We’re sitting across a low 
table from each other, on worn leather loveseats; he’s 
wearing a dark blue vest, a lighter blue oxford, a bluish-
gray sweater, blue jeans, and brown shoes. All the blue 
complements his faded blue eyes, which smile a bit at 
the memory. 
“When they came out, they said, ‘Well we’ve let you 
through, but, you know, there were some really serious 
doubts,” he remembers. (In his quasi-memoir, Designs 
For Learning, Stearns phrases his conversation with the 
committee a tad differently: “We cannot tell from this 
document and this examination whether he is a fool or a 
genius. I suggest we take the risk and pass him.”)


As he relates this, he begins to fiddle with the pale 
floral coasters stacked on the table; at first, it seemed 
like an odd tic for someone generally so poised. His 
thumbnails, however, with their broad and craggy 
steppes, betray a nasty habit of nail-biting.


“I sent the introduction to the Quarterly Review of  
Biology,” Stearns continues. “George Williams, who was 
editor, published it. It became the most cited paper in 
life history evolution. Ever.” 
That first paper would catapult Stearns to 
international prominence. (The rest of his Ph.D. 
thesis—the more conventional part—would not be 
accepted for publication for another eight years.) Once 
an undergraduate at Yale, he is now one of the most 
accomplished evolutionary biologists in the world. Over 
the course of his long career—which isn’t over yet, 
not by a long shot—he’s trained and inspired an entire 
generation of biologists. He’s founded two journals, 
authored over one hundred papers, and written four 
books. According to Google Scholar, his papers have 
been cited 18,513 times.


Aside from scientific research, Stearns takes great 
pride in his teaching. When I asked him about his former 
students, he spoke for twelve full minutes, recalling each 
person’s achievements in detail. Stearns’s students have 
gone on to important positions in science, in disciplines 
that range from anthropology to ecology. If—as biology 
asserts—the point of life is to continue life, then, 
intellectually, Stearns hasn’t missed the mark. Nowadays, 
he’s got academic grandkids.


Stearns’s own life mirrors his research. As a budding 
biologist myself, I like to think of it in evolutionary 
terms: his influence is as inexorable as the law of natural 
selection. From his cyclical journey through Yale and 
back again, Stearns knows that life is best marked by 
its uneven steps, that the key moments in one’s own 
life history—juvenile development, finding a mate, age 
of first reproduction—occur in unexpected places and 
times. 


S
tearns’s own story begins in the northwest corner of 
the island of Hawai’i. He was born in December of 
1947, at the end of World War II, and grew up on a 
sugar plantation beneath the shade of Kohala Mountain, 
the oldest volcanic peak in the area. (Now, as a Yale 
professor, Stearns wears Hawai’ian shirts when the 
weather cooperates, a reminder of home.) 


He comes from a family of educators. His aunt 
Mary had helped the Chinese government set up 
primary schools in China. When she was kicked out 
by the Japanese invasion, she went back to Hawai’i and 
helped the Hawaiian state create its primary school 
system. His mother was a teacher in Oklahoma—she 
then moved to Hawai’i, and was a schoolteacher before 
she met Stearns’s father. 


Steve Stearns attended boarding school at Hawai’i 
Preparatory Academy (HPA)—they count our current 
president, Barack Obama, as one of their alumni—after 
fifth grade. HPA has a very good record of sending their 
students to top colleges on the mainland. Stearns was no 
exception, enrolling at Yale in 1963 at the tender age of 
16. (He skipped sixth grade.) 


Stearns grew up at Yale. His life as an undergraduate 
played out against the turbulent backdrop of the 
Vietnam War. The atmosphere on campus was incredibly 
patriotic, maybe even jingoistic, and Stearns had friends 
on campus who left to go to the front. “In ’68, it was 


--- Page 35 ---

35
February 2013
good to be against the war; in ’66 and ’67 it was not good, 
at Yale, to be against the war. Yale was conservative that 
way,” he explains to me.


Despite the climate, Steve was an early war protestor. 
The fallout drove him out of his society, St. Anthony’s 
Hall, and cost him nearly all of his friends during his 
final year. “I felt a great release when that happened,” he 
says. “And basically I threw myself into my academics, 
and I had a great semester academically. I really loved 
my courses.” 


Four years after matriculating at Yale, he received 
his bachelor’s degree in biology, graduating with honors 
as one of the top three students in biology. 


“I would say that the basic thing that happened to 
me at Yale was that, yes, I did get a good education in 
some things, but Yale made me into a snob. And that 
wasn’t good for me,” he says. “I don’t see Yale as an 
unmixed blessing by any means.”


Perhaps Stearns found the 
culture of Yale in the sixties 
stifling or overly intellectual. As a 
sixteen-year-old college student, 
he was much more sensitive to 
the striking effect Yale’s name 
often has for people outside its 
walls. 


Listening to Stearns talk 
about Yale reminds me of 
our own experience here, and 
raises a larger question: after 
four short years, what have we 
actually learned? This year, Stearns is my senior thesis 
advisor. In May, I’ll be graduating in Branford College, 
in the same courtyard where Stearns received his 
undergraduate diploma four and a half decades ago. 
I find it an odd parallel, representative of the cyclical 
nature of institutions. Forty-six years hence, will I be a 
Yale professor with a neatly trimmed white beard? (It’s 
not outside of the realm of possibility, but I don’t think 
I’m nearly professorial enough.) 


I don’t yet know how Yale will affect my life 
history—my future partner, family, and career—but, so 
far, my experiences have been almost uniformly positive. 
Stearns has been a large part of that. As a mentor, he’s 
not afraid to be brutally honest. “Get your fucking life 
together,” he told me at one of our meetings this year. 
I had fallen behind with research for my senior essay 
and spent most of my time on less academic activities 
instead of on reading papers.  He apologized later, at 
our next meeting, but I told him there was no need. 
I think he saw some of himself—perhaps one of the 
more desultory parts—in me, and reacted in a way that 
he thought would jolt me out of self-sabotage.


Stearns is aware of Yale’s insularity, and the danger 
that knowing everything (i.e., terminal narcissism) poses: 
“I’m especially sensitive to the capacity that Yale has to 
convince ambitious young people that they know what is 
best for the world. And I think they’re very dangerous.”


Immediately after he graduated from Yale in 1967, 
he won a prestigious fellowship from the National 
Science Foundation to get his Ph.D. in marine biology 
from the Scripps Institute of Oceanography in La Jolla, 
California. He lasted a full six weeks before dropping 
out. He didn’t think the requirements were worth 
completing. 


“I was very aimless,” he said. “I traveled back and 
forth across the country—I actually drove, in my car, all 
the way across North America.” 


After his brief Kerouackian detour, Stearns moved 
back to Hawai’i and lived with his 
parents. He got a job at a medical 
clinic in Honolulu, helping to 
computerize its medical records. 
He was fired after three months 
because 
his 
behavior 
was 
apparently disturbing the nurses. 
“I think that I was young, insecure, 
arrogant, and made inappropriate 
comments,” he said. “So, that was 
a kick in the head.” 


It’s this arrogance, really, that 
defines Stearns. He’s convinced—
and always has been convinced—
that he’s right. I pressed him. 
“That was where I started to realize that Yale had 
damaged me and that I would have to change what I 
had become at Yale if I wanted to be on good relations 
with the people I worked with,” he said. “However, I still 
have scars, and I still try to avoid the sorts of experiences 
at Yale that damaged me.” He didn’t say what those 
experiences were.


That earlier arrogance, though, has mellowed over 
the years. Really, it’s become what it always was: relentless 
dedication to truth.


Life history evolution might say something worth 
noting, here—it’s explicitly concerned with marking 
life’s milestones, experiences that transition an organism 
into the next stages.


During the course of Stearns’s humbling non-
scientific wanderings, there was a bright spot: Steve 
met Beverly. A friend and fellow environmental activist, 
Tony Hodges, advised Steve to give her a call. On June 
19, 1970, the two went on a blind date to a Grateful 
Dead concert. They’ve been together ever since. 

“I think that I was young, 
insecure, arrogant, 
and made inappropriate 
comments,” he said. 
“So, that was 


--- Page 36 ---

36
Meeting Bev gave Steve purpose, I think. He found 
an anchor at a time when he needed centering, when 
hopping between different jobs and locations wasn’t 
enough. Life history tactics—and romantic novels—
suggest that their meeting was a turning point in both 
of their lives. 


Another turning point: their first son, Justin, was 
born during the last nine months of Stearns’s Ph.D. 
research at UBC. Their second, Jason, was born two 
years later.


Jason is now a writer living in Africa; he’s an expert 
on the Congo, and his book Dancing in the Glory of  
Monsters explores the sensitive subject of the seemingly 
endless civil war. He’s just had a son (Stearns isn’t only 
an academic grandfather), and is busy ensuring that his 
life history will indeed evolve. Despite his full schedule, 
Jason found time to shoot me a short email about his 
dad. 


“In many ways he hasn’t changed much at all––he 
still comes home every afternoon before six, doesn’t 
work on Sundays, watches football with the sound off (he 
hates advertisements and doesn’t like the commentators 
much), beats us all at chess, and cooks a mean steak.” 


Now, I’ve never had a Stearns steak, but I can only 
assume they’re made with love. Stearns loves his work, 
but he’s always put his family first. He’s never worked 
nights or weekends, and has always been there for his 
boys. 


“I was home with my boys when they were growing 
up; we didn’t have a TV, we read to them at nights, I 
was with them for Cub Scouts and Boy Scouts and all 
of that kind of stuff. And that’s irreplaceable,” he said. 
“Things happen to you when you get out of college that 
cut much closer to the bone of what life and death are 
all about.”


When Jason and Justin were 9 and 11, respectively, 
the family crossed the Atlantic, leaving their home in 
Portland and settling in Basel, Switzerland. 


The move was difficult for the family. His sons in 
particular did not acclimate to the new school system, 
struggling with learning in a different language. They 
had moved to the city because Steve had taken a new job 
there, and he felt guilty that they had trouble adjusting.


As he cooked dinner one night six months after 
they had arrived in Basel, Steve had a heart attack.


At the time, he didn’t know what had happened, 
and shrugged it off. But the next day, he couldn’t walk 
to work and was sent to the ER. He was hospitalized for 
three weeks. The doctors told him it was due to stress, 
which wasn’t surprising: in addition to the move, Steve’s 
father had recently died and Steve’s job required him to 
be able to lecture in German within two years. 


In Swiss culture, academia is highly regarded; 
professors are like tiny gods, with complete power 
over their domains. Naturally, this leads to god-sized 
expectations from subjects. Managing this academic 
pressure along with many others, Stearns was 
overwhelmed. His work was taking a toll on his health.


“While recovering from this near-death experience 
I realized that one of the reasons I was so stressed was 
that I was unconsciously responding to the expectations 
of my students and staff that I ought to fit their picture 
of a ‘Herr Professor Dr.’,” Stearns said. “I was not a 
Swiss professor; I was a kid from a sugar plantation in 
Hawaii.”


After 17 years of teaching at Basel, he left. In 
2000, the Stearns family moved back to Yale at Bev’s 
behest. Jason and Justin were both in college on the east 
coast—Jason was an undergrad at Amherst, while Justin 
was just starting grad school at Princeton—and Bev, a 
journalist, wanted to stay in one place long enough to 
hold a salaried position.


“I gave up my job in Switzerland, which was better 
than my job at Yale in many ways, to give her that last 
chance to have the reward of recognition in a career,” 
Stearns said. They miscalculated, however—the print 
industry was in freefall, and journalism jobs were scarce. 
“Within a year of our arrival, Jason was in the Congo 
and Justin was in Cairo, and Bev was not able to find the 
job she wanted. We made the best of it.” 


tearns rarely does original research anymore. 
Instead, he primarily teaches. For him, it’s a form of 
immediate gratification: The way a teacher affects his 
students is very quickly apparent.


Nowadays, he focuses on the burgeoning field of 
evolutionary medicine, the intersection of evolutionary 
biology and medical science. As a discipline, it promises 
new treatments and therapies for many different diseases. 
He teaches both a seminar course and a lecture course 
on the subject at Yale, and they’re perennially rated very 
highly on those all-important course evaluations. 


In many ways evolutionary medicine is a natural 
segue from life history evolution. If life history theory 
tells the stories of life, then evolutionary medicine uses 
these stories to inform centuries of medical science. 
The breadth of application is stunning, and potentially 
life-saving. For example, researchers have discovered a 
new method of treating autoimmune diseases—multiple 
sclerosis and Crohn’s disease, among others—using 
worms generally found in pigs. 


At Yale, Stearns’s methods of instilling the joy of 
discovery in his students have received university-wide 
praise. In 2011, he was awarded the DeVane prize for 



**Title: A Master Teacher**
**Author: Bijan Stephen**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Professor Stephen Stearns has received the William Clyde DeVane Medal for distinguished undergraduate teaching, given solely on the basis of student nominations. 

His skill as a professor is the product of years of experience, from places as diverse as UC Berkeley, Reed College, and the University of Basel. He has pioneered new teaching methods, which he uses in the evolutionary medicine seminar, all designed to allow students more autonomy over their own learning experiences.

Perhaps more importantly, his students and colleagues love him. On a snowy afternoon in February, I spoke with Gregg Gonsalves ’11, an AIDS activist and Eli Whitney student. When I met him, his face was wrapped up in a multicolored scarf to protect it from the cold. He’s shorter than me, maybe 5’8”, and speaks with a very gentle voice. As an undergraduate at 40, he took Stearns’s introductory biology lecture course and was immediately hooked. And he was in the first cohort of the evolutionary medicine seminar in 2010.

“I’m almost double your age. Over the course of your life, you meet lots of mentors,” he said. “Steve was one of the most important ones.” 

Gonsalves is currently working on mathematically modeling infectious diseases. It’s hard science, and he credits Stearns—specifically the seminar—with helping him realize that intensive scientific research was within his intellectual reach. 

“Steve basically sucked me into the world of evolutionary biology and evolutionary medicine, and I found it absolutely transfixing,” he said. “I mean, I was about to go and take my partner and move to Europe, work in a lab, live in some Parisian garret, and work on HIV tolerance in monkeys. Steve had that kind of force.” He didn’t end up going, but he’s stayed in New Haven to pursue a PhD in the epidemiology of microbial diseases and take a position as co-director of the Yale Law School/Yale School of Public Health Global Health Justice Partnership.

Stearns teaches the seminar with a number of other professors from different areas (though most are from E&EB). The guest professors are a selling point for the students, said Paul Turner, the chair of the Ecology and Evolutionary Biology department and co-director of the evolutionary medicine seminar. The class emphasizes student interaction with research—not simply through reading papers, but also in discussion with the authors themselves. When the authors visited, students were required to attend dinner immediately following class, with the notion of speaking about concepts discussed in class in a more informal setting.

Like Gregg, I took the yearlong seminar in the spring of my junior year and fall of my senior year. During my conversation with Gonsalves, we reminisced about the course—guest professors, favorite topics, Stearns’s classroom manner—and I was surprised to note that the course’s DNA had not changed. Gonsalves and I got the same thing out of it, I think. We were treated as full colleagues, and expected to take the same amount of pleasure from learning as our teachers. 

For Stearns, the course fuses teaching and research in a way that satisfies his unbridled curiosity. He may benefit more from it than we do.

“After about a decade and a half of feeling like a butterfly in a harness trying to change the direction of a supertanker, I’m discovering that the supertanker is starting to change direction itself,” he said, when I asked him about how he saw his role in advocating evolutionary medicine. “I’m not sure that the butterfly had anything to do it, but there’s at least more movement.” 

But Steve’s accolades, impressive as they are, don’t totally describe who he is. Two things drive him: his ability to effect change in the world for the better, and his dedication to inspiring the same desire in his students.

“What I really believe in, as a faculty member, is that we gain tremendous leverage on the kind of impact we have on the world, if we can change young people’s minds and emotional states for the better, when they’re young,” he said. “That affects the whole rest of their life. And I now, at the age of 66, know that it actually works!” 

Fitting, I think, for a guy interested in telling the stories of life.


The breadth of application is stunning, and potentially life-saving: for example, researchers have discovered a new method of treating autoimmune diseases—multiple sclerosis and Crohn’s disease, among others—using worms generally found in pigs.
TNJ


**Title: An Interview with Ted Hoagland**
**Author: Juliana Hanle**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

On January 2, Ted Hoagland sat down with me in his house in Martha’s Vineyard. Our conversation ranged from his work with animals in the circus as a young man to his travels to places including Alaska and the Sudan—and his writing process. For six decades Ted Hoagland has keenly observed the intersection between the natural world and the constructed one. A member of the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters, Hoagland has received numerous awards including a National Magazine award and two Guggenheim Fellowships. His contemplative essays often dwell on the disappearance of nature and animals in daily life—what has been called “the end of nature.”


Juliana Hanle: As an author of more than twenty novels, essay anthologies, and works of non-fiction, what advice would you give to aspiring writers? 
Ted Hoagland: I’d emphasize finding what you love and seeking it out, because you’ll find that there’s not a whole lot of competition for what you love. 
For example, when I wrote [Cat Man], the novel about the circus, there weren’t a whole lot of people looking to write books about the circus. And when I wrote [The Circle Home], my boxing book, there weren’t other boxing books that took my view of it. 
And when I wrote [Notes from the Century Before], that travel book in British Columbia, there was no one else doing that. The year was 1966, before all the development, all the logging, had screwed up what was virgin when I was there. There wasn’t anyone else travelling around. There was no competition.
The book I wrote about Alaska is very different from [essayist John] McPhee’s primarily because mine is a love story. I fell in love with a nurse there who was in charge of all the tuberculosis in the state—in charge of patient care. We landed on rivers in floatplanes and on snow in ski planes. There was a lot of hostility toward white people in a lot of these villages, so if I had landed there alone I would have been beaten up. It’s a joyful book; it’s very personal.
When you find out what you’re interested in (and I’m not talking about scientists here), for an artist, when you find what you love, there’s no competition. It’s just yourself. 

JH: In the essay collection Sex and the River Styx you write, “dissent is essential.” How would you suggest incorporating political dissent into journalism?
TH: I wouldn’t want to be a newspaper reporter. One of their founding principles is that they have to interview everyone in a non-partisan way without insulting them. If I’m interviewing someone whose views I find repulsive I don’t want to have to keep a neutral face and ask a neutral question and then write down an answer that I find offensive. 

JH: So, if you use the tools of a magazine essayist to write a story about a particular issue, could you do the same thing as an activist?
TH: I write angrily and powerfully as best I can on the end of nature all the time. 
I mean, it’s not going to accomplish anything—I understand that. If it’s in The Nation it will be read by 60,000 people or something. It won’t win any votes in Congress. It’s not going to reverse sea rise or save the rhinoceros or elephant from the ivory trade. But at least I’m speaking out.

JH: Is writing about the end of nature inherently hopeless?
TH: It’s complex. For the red wolves that I’ve written about, for example, it’s very sad. It’s an elegy and the ending does fit my title of “Lament the Red Wolf.” But on the other hand, the title of my short story “The Final Fate of the Alligators” turned out not to be accurate. You know at that time in the seventies it seemed they would be extinct because it was legal to hunt them for their hides. But organizations like the Audobon Society, World Wildlife Fund, Sierra, and the Wilderness Society managed to pass federal and state laws to stop the hunting. 

JH: Around 1969 you realized you were an essayist not a novelist—what was that process like?
TH: I was still trying to write a great American novel, a twentieth century great American novel. A friend of mine pointed out to me a very simple thing: we already had a great American novel written about the sea, namely Moby Dick, which I’ve taught many times, but we don’t have any great American novel written about the frontier. 
So I looked on a globe of the world and I found a town called Telegraph Creek in northwestern British Columbia. I found this little town, it had two hundred people but it showed on the map because it was the only town for hundreds of miles around. It was only reachable by riverboat, 165 miles up river. I didn’t make any preparations, because that’s part of the story, you parachute in, so I got off the boat and told people, “I need a place to stay.”
I worked eighteen hours a day. These interviews were so rich and wonderful and fascinating that I realized, “This is so good that I should just focus on this journal. If I go back to New York and try to convert this into a novel I’ll just screw it up.” I was smart enough to realize that this book should not be sacrificed to some future dream.
As soon as I finished [Notes From a Century Before], instead of picking up my pen to write a great American novel, I started writing essays about New York. I wrote about my neighborhood in Greenwich Village. I wrote about tugboats. I got the publicity guy to let me spend two weeks on a tugboat, night and day. 
In fiction you invent the world; in essays you describe the world.



**Title: Yale Conference Schedule: New Work on Ancient Jewish Texts**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
8:15 – 8:45 am Breakfast

8:45 am Welcoming remarks 

9:00 am
Hindy Najman (Yale University)
Loren Stuckenbruck (University of Munich)
I. Chair: Joel Baden (Yale University)

9:15 am
Matthias Henze (Rice University) 
Towards a History of Early Jewish Literature: 2 Baruch 
in the Context of Early Jewish and Christian Writings

10:15 am
Liv Lied (Norwegian School of Theology)
Textual Transmission and Liturgical Transformation  
of 2 Baruch and 4 Ezra in Syriac Monasticism
II. Chair: Christina S. Kraus (Yale University)

11:30 am
Robin Darling Young (University of Notre Dame)
Between Ezra and Uriel: The World of 4 Ezra

12:30 pm
Karina Martin Hogan (Fordham University)
Burned Books and Fiery Inspiration: Ezra as Restorer 
of the Scriptures in 4 Ezra and Later Traditions

1:30 – 2:45 pm Lunch

III: Chair: Dale Martin (Yale University)

3:00 pm
Postscript on a Commentary: 1 Enoch as Moving Text

4:00 pm
Annette Reed (University of Pennsylvania)
The Astronomical Book, the Book of the Watchers, 
and the History of Jewish Writing
IV: Chair: Gregory E. Sterling (Yale University)

5:15–6:45 pm
Participants:
John Collins (Yale University)
Ben Wright (Lehigh University)
Adela Collins (Yale University)
Steven Fraade (Yale University)

6:45 pm – Closing Remarks

7:00 pm Drinks

7:15 pm Dinner 

the rest is commentary:
new work on ancient jewish texts
April 28, 2013 • Greenberg Conference Center, 391 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT
Yale
For more information contact Renee Reed 203.432.0843 renee.reed@yale.edu
To register please visit https:/yalesurvey.qualtrics.com/SE/?SID=SV_9SIDGBpyLpk1xUp
Co-sponsored by the Judaic Studies Program at Yale and the Department of Religious Studies
Conference made possible by the William and Miriam Horowitz Fund


