Publication date: December 2013
Volume: 46
Issue number: 3

**MASTHEAD:**
- publisher: Tessa Berenson
- editors-in-chief: Sophia Nguyen, Cindy Ok
- executive editor: Benjamin Mueller
- managing editors: Eric Boodman, Julia Calagiovanni
- design editors: Lian Fumerton-Liu, Emmett Kim, David Shatan-Pardo
- photo editor: Maya Binyam
- senior editors: Tao Tao Holmes, Isabel Ortiz, Emma Schindler
- associate editors: Maya Averbuch, Lara Sokoloff, A. Grace Steig, Ike Swetlitz
- copy editors: Nathalie Levine, Justine Yan
- staff writers: Ashley Dalton, Arielle Stambler
- members and directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh
- advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O’Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Eye of the Beholder - Arielle Stambler
- Brothers’ Keepers - Zoe Greenberg
- Vital Signs - Julia Calagiovanni
- Breadlines - Maya Averbuch
- Another Bid - Lara Sokoloff
- Top of His Glass - Ike Swetlitz
- points of departure - various authors
- poetry - various authors


**Title: Eye of the Beholder**
**Author: Arielle Stambler**
**Page number(s): 17**
A writer goes more than skin deep into beauty pageant culture.


**Title: Brothers’ Keepers**
**Author: Zoe Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 28**
How does Project Longevity define “community” in “community policing?”


**Title: Vital Signs**
**Author: Julia Calagiovanni**
**Page number(s): 34**


**Title: Breadlines**
**Author: Maya Averbuch**
**Page number(s): 4**
snapshot


**Title: Another Bid**
**Author: Lara Sokoloff**
**Page number(s): 8**


**Title: endnote**
**Author: TNJ Staff**
**Page number(s): 39**


**Title: Top of His Glass**
**Author: Ike Swetlitz**
**Page number(s): 11**
profile


**Title: points of departure**
**Author: various authors**
**Page number(s): 23**



**Title: poetry**
**Page number(s): 16**



**Guts and Glory**
**Author: Madeleine Witt**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In 2006, Olympic figure skating gold medalist Sarah Hughes told Sports Illustrated that “Natural Hazards” was the hardest class she took at Yale. She had caught Professor David Bercovici’s lecture, now called “Natural Disasters,” in an unfortunate semester. After a hopelessly easy 2004 version, “Natty D,” as Bercovici and his students refer to it, was swinging too far in the other direction. Sarah Hughes had fallen into a course with serious math and serious science. Along with most every other non-science major in the room, she couldn’t handle it: between 2004 and 2005, enrollment dropped from 420 to 150. 

Bercovici can still reel off his other favorite course evaluations from that semester, including but not limited to “Bercovici is the devil,” and “This is the most horrible class I’ve ever taken…I dreaded every moment of it.”

Why is a former chair of Yale’s Geology and Geophysics department with a Ph.D. in geophysics and space physics teaching a class of almost 350 students—a significant portion of them humanities and social science majors finishing their distributional requirements? “Natty D” is, at least some years, a type of class students know too well: a gut—a perfect opportunity for no work and a good grade. But at an academic institution like Yale, having top-notch scientists teach seas of disinterested students may be a waste of resources. Thus, the backlash.

In 2006, the year after Hughes took the course, Bercovici’s harder (“de-gutted”) version of “Natural Hazards” attracted a total of nineteen students. “That was a great year,” Bercovici says, joking, mostly. He clarifies, “I don’t actually want the course to have nineteen students. I do like actually teaching for people who are of all types, honestly.” A big course creates a kind of “buzz,” which helps potential majors find his department.

The new “Natural Disasters,” in 2007, would cut some items from the syllabus. It wouldn’t demand any less quantitative work from students, but Bercovici made other kinds of concessions: “If we want to make the level high, we need to provide lots of opportunities for help.” More guidance means lectures once a week that focus on applying concepts to homework, and discussion sections offer something between advice about problem sets and ready-made answers. “Anybody who wants to do well on the homework can do well on the homework. There’s no reason anyone should be doing crappily on the homework,” Bercovici says.

This year, the class is held in one of the largest lecture halls at Yale, Sheffield-Sterling-Strathcona 114. But lecturing behind a podium puts too much space between Bercovici and his students: “It looks to a student like I’m not really there, or that I’m like a hologram, or a performer. It’s like when you go to a play, people are texting. They think the actors can’t see them.” 

Instead, he weaves through the aisles waving a laser pointer and keeping in motion so students know that he is a sentient person, who can see them texting and emailing and sleeping in the dozens of rows spread throughout the hall and its balcony. “At least there’s a little bit more interaction,” he says, “They know that I’m standing right there looking at their Facebook.” Bercovici enjoys teaching “Natty D” much more than he did teaching any of the previous versions of “Natural Hazards,” because he has more contact with his students. The ones who go to lecture stay after to ask questions, and come to section each week. But Bercovici thinks he could still improve the course. He’d like to have a smaller class, so he can better engage with students. He’s considering capping the course, and reserving the slots for underclassmen. “I’ve loved teaching some juniors and seniors,” Bercovici says. “But the people who come into a class with a perspective of being forced to take a ‘Sc’ class at gunpoint—they seem more likely to be juniors and seniors.” 

He does not live in blissful ignorance about his course’s place at Yale, but he cherishes the memory of students who unexpectedly become geology and geophysics majors after studying with him. The key is to find a balanced class in which diligent non- and never-majors still get some kicks, the lazy tell their friends not to come back, and somewhere, in the sea of bodies, a geologist is born.
—Ben Lempert


**Building Up**
**Page number(s): 4-6**

In 1912, just months after opening, the Taft Hotel was already known for its distinctive modern grandeur. With its domed Tiffany stained glass, the lobby served as a meeting place for the hotel’s notable guests. On a typical weekend night, Yale students and guests crowded the oak-paneled room’s Persian carpets and perched on Colonial Revival-style carved chairs. In the dining room, their conversation rose to meet the glittering crystal chandeliers hanging from an elaborately molded soaring ceiling.

Today, a guest at Roìa, the French- and Italian-influenced brasserie that opened in the Taft dining room this March, can still get a feel for that century-old scene. Executive chef and owner Avi Szapiro and his director of operations and wife, Meera, relocated from Brooklyn to open the restaurant. Together, they supervised a year of careful demolition and reconstruction with the goal of repurposing the space while reclaiming its historic beauty. 

Over the last hundred years, the property has been occupied by various eateries, each looking to make the space its own. In the eighties, a mezzanine level and sweeping staircase were added. Then, Downtown at the Taft—briefly called Baccus Enoteca—made a number of changes in a move toward more contemporary design: the floor was layered with carpet and linoleum, and the walls with particleboard. John Stuart Gordon, an associate curator at the Yale University Art Gallery who specializes in decorative arts, described the drastic changes as “denying the history of the space.” 

To bring the history of the space to the foreground, Szapiro recruited Patriquin Architects, the New Haven firm behind the Chapel Street restaurant Zinc, and consulted with Grayling Design, a New York firm known for its distinctive work on brasseries. The project began in May 2012, promptly stripping away a century of accumulated redecorating. Down came the particleboard, revealing the original oak paneling behind it. When seven types of flooring were peeled away, the original tile emerged: a pearly white-and-gold-flecked mosaic. The winding staircase came down to open up the ground level, but the mezzanine remained to add extra seating, a second kitchen, and more bathrooms. “The space breathed a sigh of relief,” according to Szapiro, “like taking off layers of clothing.”  The years of renovations that had simply ignored the bones of the building had ultimately saved them. “Neglect is the great preserver,” said Gordon.

The remainder of the work depended on finding elements that complemented the original structures at the heart of the space. Szapiro consulted the American Standard’s 1912 catalog and photographs of the old dining room to find the styles of fixtures that fit. Sitting in one of the red leather booths in the restaurant, he showed me pictures on his iPhone from the vintage-scouting missions that ultimately yielded vintage sinks, salvaged doors, and a chandelier from the period. “I had a vision of what I was looking for. You start looking for things, and then the picture starts becoming clearer and clearer,” he said. The space itself often provided the best direction. When renovating the kitchen, the team came across a swatch of wall in what they believed to be the original paint—a light beige—and chose the new color based on that.

Enough documentation exists that a near-perfect recreation of the Taft dining room could be possible, but Roìa’s divergences from the original look are, the team believes, essential to the restaurant’s identity. The original tile floor, which a century ago was covered in rich Oriental rugs, is now left bare, exposing its blemishes and chips. The new look is more casual, better suited to today’s guests. 

Christian Garnett, principal architect of Grayling Design, says that he’s not overly concerned with upholding historical accuracy. When he works on a project, he turns to the plaster, molding, and ceiling of the space for inspiration. “There’s a narrative hidden in the walls of the place,” he said. “The idea is that if we can tap into that, it gives the place a depth and richness that you can’t get otherwise.” 

“We feel like stewards of the space more than anything else,” Szapiro told me. “You are taking delight in protecting a little piece of history.” I haven’t been transported all the way back to 1912, but it does feel a little closer. 
—Caroline Sydney


**A Match Made in New Haven**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

In the late seventies, Yale students flocked to a three-story furniture shop on Whalley Avenue called Rubber Match to buy waterbeds for their dorm rooms. Owner George Zito told the Yale Daily News in 1978 that in the past month he had sold at least a dozen waterbeds to Yale students. On the whole, students were enthusiastically in praise of the mattresses, though one interviewed student noted that “waterbeds are terrible when you’re drunk.”  Her story concluded with the claim that Zito would ride the crest of an ever-growing $130-million waterbed industry. 

The waterbed wave at Yale may have come crashing down within the year; administrators prohibited waterbeds from dorms because of leaks. But Rubber Match is still around today, despite its long-gone campus renown. These days, Yale students are a rare sight on most of Whalley.  

“I’m trying to get the Yale students to go past Popeye’s,” Zito said. “They always stop right there.”  

Sheila Masterson, executive director of the Whalley Special Services District, an organization that works to improve Whalley’s security and maintenance to help drive commercial traffic, acknowledged that most businesses on the street don’t hold much appeal for the average college student. For decades after the seventies, the area was dominated by car dealerships and service stations. Even with the addition of the Stop & Shop on the street, New Haven residents generally visit the area to run errands and “take care of the dull stuff,” as Masterson put it. “You wouldn’t come to Whalley Avenue to do your Christmas shopping unless you were buying Mom and Dad a box of pears.”

In October, Zito celebrated Rubber Match’s fortieth anniversary with commemorative mugs, T-shirts, and refrigerator magnets. He also recently launched his latest initiative to target Yale students: a Rock ‘n’ Roll Museum. Rubber Match’s walls are now covered with memorabilia accumulated over decades of fandom, recently transported from Zito’s basement. Drawings by Yoko Ono, a plate signed by all four Beatles, and Jim Morrison’s original fingerprints from his arrest in New Haven now



**Title: Rubber Match**
**Author: Madeleine Witt**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
december 2013
7
Madeleine Witt
mingle with futons and bedspreads. 

Drifting in a sea of establishments that 
cater to adults with cars and steady employ­
ment, sixty-four-year-old Zito has spent much 
of his long career thinking of creative ways to 
draw Yale students up Whalley. Despite years 
of mixed success, he is convinced that students 
would love the shop—if they’d just walk past 
Popeye’s to find it.  

Rubber Match has a decidedly sixties vibe, 
which Zito notes ought to appeal to college 
students nostalgic for a decade they never ex­
perienced. Signs out front saying “Undefeated 
Champs!” and “Introducing George-O-Pedic 
Memory Foam!” are printed in colorful, bubbly 
lettering that begs to be described as “groovy.” 
At the back of the first floor, a head shop coun­
ter offers hookahs, tobacco, and a variety of 
marijuana paraphernalia. A Yale sophomore 
named David Rico visited the shop early last 
fall and noted that the furniture store and 
head shop seem oddly segregated, united only 
by their presence under the same roof. Zito, 
however, believes the inventory to work well 
together.
“I call it ‘beds and heads,’” he said of his busi­
ness model. “We couldn’t say that in the eight­
ies.”

Zito offers discounts to Yale students and 
free delivery directly to dorm rooms. Aaron 
Gertler, a Yale junior, purchased a futon there 
for his suite this year. He said he paid less than 
a comparable futon at IKEA would have cost. He 
was also pleased when Zito himself delivered 
the futon within thirty minutes. 

As the shop’s owner, marketing strategist, 
and primary salesperson, Zito is perhaps Rub­
ber Match’s most intriguing draw. The heavy-set 
grandson of Italian immigrants, Zito is New Ha­
ven born and raised, and not embarrassed to tell 
one story after the other about himself and his 
time here: the time he entered a waterbed in a 
charity bed race down the New Haven Green to 
generate publicity, the time he gave money to a 
homeless man who then became a preacher and 
repaid the money years later, the time he saved 
a Yale student from a mugging by hurling a club 
across Whalley Avenue. He corroborates many of 
these stories with newspaper clippings saved in 
binders on his desk or framed on Rubber Match’s 
walls, but they retain mythic proportions. 

“People like to claim that New Haven kind 
of lacks that small-town charm, and certainly 
Yale has done a great job of commercializing 
it into chain store oblivion,” Gertler said. “But 
I think there are opportunities for people to 
get some of that small-town charm back, and I 
think one of the ways to do that is by shopping 
at a place that’s been here since Kingman Brew­
ster was keeping things cool with the Black 
Panthers in the late seventies.”

Zito thinks the museum is already starting 
to bring in new customers—but even if that’s 
true, he will mostly just be making up recently 
lost ground. The arrival of IKEA in 2004 to New 
Haven’s retail scene amplified the challenge 
posed by Rubber Match’s physical distance from 
campus. Zito estimates his sales in the months 
of August and September, when students gen­
erally outfit their common rooms with futons 
and beanbag chairs, have been down by ten to 
fifteen thousand dollars since IKEA opened. He 
seems to relish the challenge of turning back 
the clock. 

“This for years has been my fight: how do I 
get my business back again?” Zito said. “I don’t 
know if we’re going to get it back, but we’re go­
ing to get a bigger market share soon.”

Zito’s confidence aside, Rubber Match is 
still not widely known on Yale’s campus. After 
more than forty years in business, Zito feels 
that it’s time to finally solve the puzzle of how 
to lure students far enough up Whalley to see 
his futons, his hookahs, his Jim Morrison fin­
gerprints, and the pictures of his grandchil­
dren. He says that if the Rock ‘n’ Roll Museum 
doesn’t work, he’ll think of something else. Af­
ter all, in the natural ebb and flow of a college’s 
population, seniors depart each May and fresh­
men arrive each August, ready to be persuaded 
to buy futons and hookahs, and perhaps even a 
waterbed. Meanwhile, Rubber Match floats on. 
—Isabelle Taft


**Title: Another Bid**
**Author: Lara Sokoloff**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

--- Page 8 ---

8
the new journal
W
hen Dan Justino addresses you, he re­
peats your name at least twice, once 
toward the beginning, and again at the 
end. “Juan, come talk to Lara here. Come over, 
Juan,” Justino calls to Juan Figueroa, a small 
35-year-old with jet-black hair. Other than his 
tan work boots, he wears all black. When asked 
what his first impression of Justino, his boss, 
was, Figueora immediately responds in a soft-
spoken voice: “Intimidating.” Two nearby work­
ers nod in agreement. Justino believes in hon­
esty and has a strict “no-bullshit” policy. He’s 
not afraid to tell his employees when they’re 
not working hard enough—or tell me when I’ve 
asked the wrong question. This delicate bal­
ance of power and intimacy serves Justino well 
with the population he works with: recently re­
leased prisoners. 

New Haven suffers from a dearth of re­
sources for former prisoners and a high recidi­
vism rate. After release, prisoners are generally 
dropped off in front of the Whalley Avenue jail 
and must find their own way from there. Often, 
they have no form of identification or home. 
Many return to crime, leading to a recidivism 
rate of sixty-five percent, much steeper than 
the nationwide rate of forty percent, according 
to Justino.

The New Haven Prison Reentry Initiative 
coordinates the efforts of various government 
nonprofits to lower the city’s recidivism rate. 
Emerge, the program Justino directs, is its 
newest member. Since its founding a year ago, 
Emerge has helped former prisoners through 
the often lonely and unwieldy process of rein­
tegration.

At Emerge, reentrants are employed at ten 
dollars an hour in construction jobs. The occu­
pation primarily attracts males, but Justino has 
considered opening a bakery to bring women 
into the program. Participants take online 
classes to become proficient in math and read­
ing at the tenth and eleventh grade levels. Re­
entrants also attend weekly discussions called 
“Real Talk,” to discuss topics like mental health, 
addiction, or childhood trauma. Justino, an ex-
offender himself, leads the group each Friday 
morning aiming to understand how each indi­
vidual landed behind bars, and how he can keep 
himself from being sent back.
snapshot Another Bid
A holistic 
approach to 
prison reentry.


--- Page 9 ---

9
Alden Woodcock is responsible for inter­
viewing each candidate and determining his 
potential to thrive at Emerge. A clean-shaven, 
young white man who dons large square glasses 
and smiles often, Woodock said he looks for re­
entrants who are committed to their own suc­
cess in the program. “The first question I ask 
everyone I interview for this job is, ‘Do you have 
another bid in you?’” Woodcock said. “And if 
they hesitate, then they’re not in the program. 
The ones that say, ‘I’m done. I need this,’ those 
are the guys that I’m excited to work with.” 

Emerge is designed to act as an individual­
ized bridge program between prison and per­
manent employment. It was launched in 2010 
under the umbrella of a city initiative called 
Empower New Haven before becoming inde­
pendent in 2012. The program was modeled 
after San Francisco’s Delancey Street Founda­
tion, which has rehabilitated ex-convicts, drug 
addicts, and the homeless for over forty years. 
The foundation currently operates a café and 
restaurant, catering and limousine services, a 
landscaping business, and a moving and truck­
ing company, each staffed by reentrants and 
people who have struggled with substance 
abuse. A portion of the profits helps cover hous­
ing, food, and clothing costs for the employees. 

Emerge tries to fill a void in New Haven 
with its combination of employment, educa­
tion, and character-building. This personalized 
model mandates that each individual carry 
a performance journal on the job to jot down 
notes about the day’s work. They turn it over 
to Woodcock, who reads each journal to follow 
each reentrant’s progress and interviews each 
reentrant to talk about how he has progressed 
and how he can continue to improve. Since its 
inception, the program has seen a twelve per­
cent recidivism rate among its participants, a 
significant drop from the statewide average of 
sixty-nine percent.

Emerge’s construction teams work on 
projects in six New Haven neighborhoods. Em­
ployees work three days a week for a total of 
twenty-five hours per week. Justino limits the 
number of work hours to remind reentrants 
that this should be a stepping-stone, not a per­
manent job. “It gives them incentive to leave 
us,” he said. Some find jobs in construction 
similar to their work at Emerge, while others 
go into completely different industries. Several 
Emerge employees have found permanent em­
ployment with the administration at Emerge.

Justino recruits many participants through 
parole and probation officers, but most par­
ticipants find out about the program through 
word-of-mouth. The crew members wear bright 
orange vests that advertise “Emerge” in bold 
lettering across the back, with C.O.R.E. just 
below it, signifying “Community Offender Re-
entry Experience.” Justino credits visibility as 
the main recruitment tactic. Most importantly, 
they work in neighborhoods that have some 
of the highest incarceration rates in the state, 
neighborhoods many Emerge members have at 
some point called home. 

For Roger Johnson, a soft-spoken thirty-
three-year-old, a friend’s orange vests worked. 
Johnson, who served a fourteen-year sentence 
for committing manslaughter, was released and 
then saw federal agents round up a group of his 
friends. They were being incarcerated again for 
alleged drug-dealing and murder. “That was a 
sign that I needed to get serious about chang­
ing my life, or I was going to end up in the same 
boat as my friends,” Johnson said. “I wasn’t firm­
ly rooted. I was dibbling and dabbling, moving 
to and fro. I needed structure.” This convinced 
him to follow his friend’s lead and join Emerge.

He has now been at Emerge for eighteen 
months, where he supervises a twelve-man 
work crew. Each work crew is supervised by a 
reentrant, who serves as both a role model and 
a leader, to promote a healthier relationship 
with authority. “They can hang out, they can be 
boys on the street,” Justino said. “But here, this 
is work. He’s a supervisor. He’s my enforcer.”

Yet some important distinctions remain 
between this program and conventional work 
settings. Justino recognizes that offering the 
men temporary employment is not enough to 
get reentrants on their feet for good. In order 
to improve full-time opportunities, one day 
each week is dedicated to academic education, 
until participants test at tenth- or eleventh-
grade reading and math levels. Once they do 
so, they can have those hours back for work, 
creating a financial incentive to complete the 
education component of the program. Since 
October 2012, Emerge has used Khan Academy, 
a nonprofit education website created in 2006 
by MIT and Harvard Business School graduate 
Salman Khan. There are no teachers, since Jus­
tino said they unintentionally made reentrants 
feel belittled in the past. Instead, each reen



**Title: the new journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10
the new journal
trant works with a facilitator from Emerge. 
The facilitator serves as a coach, motivator, 
and support system, which has led to dramatic 
results: in some cases, Justino says, individuals 
have advanced one grade level in just twenty-
four hours of coursework.


“Real Talk,” the third component of the pro­
gram, encourages reentrants to work through 
problems from their past and present through 
discussion groups. For Justino, a goal of these 
talks is for reentrants to shed what he refers to 
as “angry black man face.” He says, “It served us 
well in our communities. It kept us alive in the 
hood, in the yard. But where we’re headed, it no 
longer serves us well.”


Reentrants work through unresolved child­
hood traumas that continue to affect their be­
havior. Over twenty-five percent of the men 
have struggled with substance abuse that has 
never been addressed, and many, including Jus­
tino himself, have struggled with mental health 
issues. “Two months ago, these guys were sit­
ting in the yard,” Justino tells me. “And now, 
they’re beginning to talk about abuse, and more 
importantly, how to stop it here, how to not per­
petrate it on their children. That’s the magic.”


Anthony Torres, a quiet 22-year-old with 
soft eyes, came to Emerge four months ago. For 
him, Real Talk also presents an opportunity 
to work through problems with his co-work­
ers. Upon arriving at Emerge, he immediately 
clashed with another reentrant. But he has 
learned how to sort out conflicts. “We’re grown 
ups, we can talk stuff out to reach a better out­
come,” Torres says. “Our communication has 
now grown a lot, and he’s actually a pretty good 
guy. We just hadn’t gotten to know each other.”


Emerge only reaches sixty men per year, 
and both Justino and Woodcock are uncertain 
if their resources can effectively support a 
larger program. The small size fosters a strong 
sense of community, as the men help one an­
other in the field and at the table during “Real 
Talk.” But the success of the program depends 
on each reentrant’s commitment. Justino cites 
Darius Jones as one of the organization’s suc­
cess stories, calling him Emerge’s “poster child.” 
He first arrived at Emerge when it began three 
years ago after learning about it through his pa­
role officer. After going through Emerge, Jones 
received a degree in business administration 
from Gateway Community College, and became 
the organization’s bookkeeper.


Sitting in the office in a neat brown polo 
shirt, tapping away at his computer, Jones tells 
me that the police gave him a lot of trouble 
where he grew up, in Wellington, Connecticut. 
I’m surprised when Justino interrupts: 
“That’s easy to blame them. What was your role, 
what was your fifty percent? I can’t change 
that police officer. That’s as useless as sitting 
in a rocking chair and hoping to get to Manhat­
tan. It ain’t happening.” Then he asks, “The only 
thing you can change is who?”


“Myself.”


“That’s right. Don’t ever forget that.”


Reentrants are taught to carry this at­
titude out of the program and into the rest of 
their lives. But however often Justino and the 
staff repeat the words, they remain difficult to 
practice. Though Emerge ensures that former 
prisoners are no longer abandoned at the door 
of the Whalley Avenue jail, and helps them gain 
skills and a community, individuals face the 
ongoing challenge of making their way in the 
world.


Lara Sokoloff is a sophomore in 
Trumbull College and an Associate 
Editor for the New Journal.
Photos by Ivonne Padilla



**Title: profile**
**Author: Ike Swetlitz**
**Page number(s): 11**

december 2013
11
profile
Top of 
His Glass
A journey to glassblowing 
at Yale.
By Ike Swetlitz



**Page number(s): 12**

12
F
our thin blue flames lick the underbelly 
of a glass flask as Daryl Smith steadies 
his blowtorch. With sweat dripping from 
his forehead, he directs the heat at one of 
three stumpy tubes attached to the spherical 
flask. The glass glows white-hot and starts to 
melt. Just as the tube begins to droop, Smith 
snatches it away with a pair of tweezers. The 
tube stretches until all that connects it to the 
flask is a long, thin thread. When the thread 
breaks, a spark of light appears as the chemical 
bonds in the glass split apart. The glass closes 
around the quarter-sized hole where the tube 
once was. During this minute-long part of the 
process, Smith has been holding a hose between 
his teeth that connects his mouth to the sphere. 
He breathes a puff of air into the sphere, and 
the hole reappears, leaving space for Smith to 
push the tube in again. He works without talk­
ing; the only noise in the studio comes from the 
jazz playing on a radio in the background.


A soft-spoken man with short brown hair, 
Smith is Yale’s scientific glassblower. He spends 
his days building and repairing glass laboratory 
equipment in a cramped room filled with a me­
chanical lathe, gas canisters, torches of differ­
ent shapes and sizes, and boxes of glass pipes, 
stoppers, and joints. Today’s job comes at the 
request of Timothy Newhouse, a chemistry pro­
fessor who inherited the flask, along with other 
old glassware, from another faculty member. 
He uses the flask to conduct chemical reactions 
isolated from the atmosphere. But he needed 
the protruding pipes replaced so that they were 
the same shape as and could plug into his other 
glass equipment.


Smith uses the lathe to rotate the sphere, 
bathing it uniformly in a blue flame from anoth­
er torch, to prevent it from cracking as it cools. 
The final step is to place the piece in a special 
oven that gradually heats and then cools the 
glass to strengthen it. After four hours, it will 
be ready for use in Newhouse’s lab.


Smith has been a glassblower for nearly 
twenty years. He grew up in Lancaster, Penn­
sylvania, a few hours away from southern New 
Jersey, the heart of the glassblowing industry. 
But he had never considered a career in glass­
blowing until after college. He was a year out 
of Texas A&M University when he came across 
an article in his local newspaper titled, “Glass 
Blowing: A Job With a Future.” It was 1985, and 
his job at the time in fisheries science had en­
couraged him to skew the data in favor of his 
employer, and Smith recalls thinking, “This is 
not science.” The article presented a lucrative 
alternative—and the chance to work with fire. 
When Smith moved to New York for his wife’s 
work two weeks later, he brought the clip with 
him.


Neither Smith nor his wife found success in 
New York. She didn’t get the job she had want­
ed; Smith started working for a furniture man­
ufacturing company, where he was passed over 
for a promotion. His thoughts kept straying 
back to the article. It had promised a starting 
salary of around thirty thousand dollars, the 
equivalent of over sixty thousand dollars to­
day. And North America’s only scientific glass­
blowing academic program, at New Jersey’s 
Salem Community College (SCC), happened to 
be within commuting distance of his in-laws in 
Pennsylvania.


But before applying to the program, Smith 
wanted to learn more about what scientific 
glassblowers actually did. So he talked with his 
father, a plant manager at Radio Corporation of 
America, and his brother, a graduate student at 
Rutgers, who both worked with scientific glass­
blowers. They told him that glass tradesmen 
are crucial to the maintenance of industry and 
research. “It sounded like something interest­
ing to do because it does involve some scientific 
training, and it does involve working with your 
hands,” Smith said. “I’ve always enjoyed that. So 
I gave it a shot.” He enrolled in SCC’s program in 
January of 1986.


The school still boasts the only academic 
program for scientific glassblowing in the 
United States. South Jersey was the birthplace 
of the glassblowing industry in colonial times. 
Located at the confluence of major shipping 
lanes, it’s where glassblowing grew up, says 
Dennis Briening, current chair of scientific 
glass technology at the community college. The 
program currently accepts forty-four students 
each year, who go on to work at institutions 
such as the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology and GE Global Research.


During his first few weeks at the college, 
Smith practiced making round bottoms on glass 
tubes and attaching tubes to each other at right 
angles. The work was, in Smith’s words, “im­
mensely boring,” but he didn’t give up. To learn 
more, he found a job at Atmar Glass, a small, 
family-owned glass shop halfway between Sa­
Ph


**Title: The Glassblower of Yale**
**Author: Ike Swetlitz**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
december 2013
13
lem Community College and Lancaster, and 
worked part time for the rest of the semester. 
During the summer of 1986, he began working 
full time.
As the summer drew to a close, Smith found 
out that his wife was pregnant. In order to keep 
their health insurance, he needed to work full 
time, Smith said, “That was like, bust-ass time!” 
He spent sixty hours a week—twenty at school 
and forty at his job—blowing glass to support 
his growing family. He left the program after 
completing his second semes­
ter so that he could focus more 
on his job, so he graduated with 
a certificate as opposed to a 
degree. By that time, he was 
already building pieces for At­
mar’s regular catalogue, such 
as boiling flasks, addition fun­
nels, and drying apparatuses. 
His daughter Mallory was born 
in 1987, and her brother Pres­
ton followed two years later.
Smith often moved for 
work at the beginning of his 
career, but he set up a minia­
ture glass studio wherever he 
lived. One of his houses had an 
adjoining gray, two-story barn 
about the size of a one-car ga­
rage. He set up a torch on the 
second floor and worked on re­
pairs during nights and week­
ends. “It’s shaking in the wind,” 
Mallory said, recalling one day 
from her childhood. “But Dad’s 
up there with the radio on, 
blowing glass.” 
Mallory was six or sev­
en years old when she first 
learned how to use a glass­
blowing torch herself. Her 
father guided her hands for 
the first hour or so, and then 
stepped back, watching at a 
safe distance. She made mar­
bles, pendants, and Christmas 
ornaments. “It was a cool expe­
rience to have him say, ‘You are 
smart enough and trustworthy 
enough that you can handle 
this,’” Mallory said. Still, work­
ing with a flame frightened her. Making larg­
er pieces of glass required big flames. “When 
you’re knee-high with a grasshopper, you’re 
scared of it,” she said. Her younger brother 
was often there, right beside her. He learned to 
blow glass from his father as well.
Smith spent the next few years working for 
small glass companies on the east coast before 
he landed a job with Kontes Glass, the largest 
glass manufacturer in the United States at the 
time. At Kontes, Smith pushed his craft beyond 
standard scientific glassware and began mak­
Daryl Smith calls this torch the “workhorse of the 
glassblowing industry.”
Photos by Caroline Lester


14
ing more challenging or extravagant creations. 
He made yard-long test tubes with diameters 
as wide as your wrists. He was told that they 
were horse bloodletting tubes. “Oh my God, 
those things are huge!” Smith says in recollec­
tion. “Poor horse!” To this day, he doesn’t know 
who placed the order or why. “I kind of didn’t 
want to find out.” Smith made about two dozen. 
Each took twenty minutes.
After five years at Kontes, Smith heard 
about an opportunity too good to pass up. Word 
was spreading that Joe Luisi, the glassblowing 
instructor at Salem Community College, was 
retiring. “It was the job,” Smith said. His appli­
cation was accepted, and he started teaching in 
the fall of 2000. 
While Smith was an instructor, the college 
got rid of the one-year certificate program, 
keeping only the two-year degree. They deter­
mined that anyone who had completed the one-
year certificate program and attained signifi­
cant experience could receive the degree. “So I 
eventually got my associate of applied science 
while I was an instructor,” Smith said.
Smith enjoyed his job, but started to regret 
that he spent most of his time teaching as op­
posed to glassblowing: “I kind of missed build­
ing things—the gratification you get from mak­
ing the apparatus,” he said. After five years of 
teaching, he took a position at Yale that would 
allow him to both teach and blow glass. Smith 
fixes broken equipment and helps researchers 
with specialty pieces, in addition to teaching a 
workshop on the basics of scientific glassblow­
ing.
His class is always oversubscribed. It is 
listed as a graduate-level chemistry laboratory 
class but is open to all Yale students. This year, 
all of the participants happen to be graduate 
students in the chemistry department, but in 
past years workshop has been entirely under­
graduates. The semester follows the course of 
his daughter Mallory’s lessons: first they make 
marbles, then Christmas ornaments, before 
moving on to more advanced concepts.
Students also learn techniques that they 
can apply in their research. Louise Guard, a 
fourth-year chemistry graduate student who 
took Smith’s class last fall, learned how to seal 
samples of chemicals in glass chambers under 
vacuum to send out from the lab for outside 
analysis. “It’s especially helpful if he’s on holi­
day and you want to send some compounds out.”
Other skills take more time to master. Dur­


15
ing class on a Tuesday in early October, fifth-
year graduate student Sahr Kahn struggled to 
create a straight seal, which involves smoothly 
fusing two glass tubes together, end-to-end. 
Khan bemoaned her work—the glass had wrin­
kled near the attachment, where it should have 
been even. “You’re not going to master it in this 
class,” Smith reassured her, “It takes years.” He 
had taken four or five years to become profi­
cient at the technique. “What?” Khan whipped 
around, a mangled piece of glass tubing grasped 
in hand. “Okay, good!”
While Smith enjoys teaching, he came to 
Yale so that he would be able to get back be­
hind the torch. Often, his work simplifies oth­
erwise arduous processes. Guard walks around 
her laboratory, pointing at large apparatuses of 
connected glass tubes and pipes sitting behind 
fume hoods. “Without those, we couldn’t do any 
of our chemistry,” she says. These are Schlenk 
lines, which Smith builds for the lab. They have 
eight of these set-ups, which allow chemists 
to conduct reactions without air getting in the 
way. Otherwise, they would have to conduct 
their experiments in a glovebox, which would 
require them to use unwieldy rubber gloves to 
manipulate their samples. 
Some of Smith’s work is less routine. The 
strangest request he ever received came from 
Patricia Brennan, then a postdoc in the De­
partment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology 
at Yale. Brennan, a graduate student, and re­
nowned ornithology professor Richard Prum, 
were studying the mechanics of the duck penis. 
In order to observe it in action, they needed a 
transparent alternative to a female duck’s gen­
italia. 
Silicone models were life-like, but too 
weak. “When we tested them with the males, 
the males actually broke through every single 
one,” Brennan said. “The conclusion is: they 
have an explosive eversion.” 
While a noteworthy observation, it also 
meant that Brennan and her team needed a 
different model. Brennan and her team ap­
proached Smith to request a glass duck vagina, 
which would be stronger but still transparent. 
Smith wasn’t as surprised as Brennan and her 
team thought he would be. He had made strange 
equipment before while working for Kontes 
Glass, including glass condom molds. And the 
glass vagina didn’t require any specialty tech­
niques. “It was just bending,” Smith said. Bren­
nan asked for a few different models: one was a 
straight tube; two more were spirals with three 
twists each; a fourth was short and squat, bent 
like an elbow. They didn’t exactly look like va­
ginas, Brennan concedes, but the geometry and 
shape were life-like enough for her purposes.
He is happy with his work, but Smith hopes 
to push the boundaries of glassblowing—maybe 
even beyond Earth’s atmosphere: he tells me he 
wants to be the first glassblower in space. With 
space technology advancing, he anticipates 
a need for an on-site glassblower, perhaps at 
a space station. “I hope they hurry up,” Smith 
said. “Because I’m getting older.”
Glassblowing in space could be a whole 
different art form. So much of the skill asso­
ciated with glassblowing is knowing how to 
turn pieces of hot glass, which would normally 
flow downward due to gravity, in order to off­
set gravity’s effects. “It’s so ingrained and so a 
necessary part of glassblowing,” Smith said. “To 
actually be in a non-gravity situation, and to 
see what it would be like and what you could do 
with it? Just wild. Mind-blowing.”
Until then, Smith will have to content him­
self with blowing glass on Earth, a life he en­
joys. “It’s like his natural habitat,” Mallory said. 
“Seeing my dad there, watching football on Sun­
days, cooking in the kitchen, or blowing glass—
he just owns the situation and looks completely 
in his element.” It’s the same at Yale, whether 
he’s making a round bottom on a glass tube us­
ing a hand torch or fusing a piece of tubing onto 
a spherical flask. His hands move by instinct, 
the radio always playing in the background, his 
concentration never wavering from the glass.
Ike Swetlitz is a junior in
Silliman College and an Associate 
Editor for the New Journal.



**Title: Sextant**
**Author: Margaret Shultz**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
There are many ways to sleep that are not
restful.  There are lakes that are open
or closed in different seasons as though
by some kind of door. 

Tonight the eels migrate: 
they know where they are going: 
they have been there once before.  
They are like sound particles traveling 
outward from a single source, acquiring 
the behavior of the space they 
interact with, now returning less loudly 
back to the place they came from 
in order that they may be heard.  I turn the lock
against the eels, scatter salt: 
my house is not a sea. 

One could sleep all night through 
the migration, a sharp instrument 
in one’s hand, as if a dream were a way 
to measure the angle between two objects: 
one real, and one wriggling, slow 
but urgent, across the frost and asphalt,
making an undecipherable sound.


**Title: I Can Imagine a Terrific Rain**
**Author: Elliah Heifetz**

I can imagine a terrific rain and ten thousand people screaming in 
the Canadian north. All of my professors are there and the wind is 
actually so strong that it breaks my arms. In the same way that I 
hate my body, I see a wide disc of earth covered with people that I 
know, screaming, launched from the surface of the earth towards 
Prince Edward Island or into green waters near Ellesmere Island.
Where are my shoes? I lie in your bed while you rinse, my head in 
halves like a nut and rain cutting me long-ways. Walking north 
towards Newfoundland, I see everything from up top sluiced by a 
horrific rain over the Baffin Bay, completely destroyed by nature. 
You unplug a quarter inch from the stereo and wrap it up. In the 
yellow light, you throw me a glance in passing. 

When I continue to do worse than everybody else, I have visions 
of lines of rain across my neighborhood. I sleep because I smoke 
enough weed but otherwise I watch the flood make cleavages in 
the earth. It is so frustrating to me that I am not miles away in 
Greenland, refrigerating with the birches like a tired buoy – that 
far north I think I could myself be a work of art, at least an ice 
sculpture bobbing forever.



**Title: EYE OF THE BEHOLDER**
**Author: Arielle Stambler**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

“C
ontestant number 19.” The announc­
er’s 
amplified 
voice 
reverberates 
through the auditorium. I look down 
at the number pinned to my dress. My legs 
snap into position, and I begin my walk into the 
bright light: one and a half large circles around 
the stage, just as I practiced this morning. I try 
to smile at the three female judges seated at a 
table below me and at the audience in rows of 
school cafeteria chairs beyond, but it’s the me­
chanical smile of a news anchor. When I pose 
for the first time, stiffly shifting my weight 
leftward, everybody claps. I’m not sure what 
they’re clapping for. 

My legs jitter as I walk, even though my 
sparkly heels are only two inches high. An 
iridescent mother-of-pearl necklace hangs 
around my neck. My satin dress swishes qui­
etly. I’m wearing more eye makeup than I ever 
have in my life. And yet, I have a strange feel­
ing—novel to me—that from where the judges 
and audience are sitting, I look beautiful, enig­
matic, older, even seductive. 

After completing my circuit, I stop in front 
of the pageant’s creator and emcee, Logan West.
 “If you could change one thing about so­
ciety’s attitude toward women, what would it 
be?” West asks, passing me the microphone.
Three empty seconds pass. 
“I think I would want everyone to be able 
to define feminism for him or herself,” I begin, 
my voice trembling. “I think that that’s sort of a 
loaded word, umm, and unfortunately, it usual­
ly has negative connotations. And I would love 
for everybody to be able to think about what 
fen-fenim-feminism means for him or her and 
to be able to express that.” I pass the micro­
phone back to West and exit the stage. 

A few weeks earlier, I would have answered 
West’s question very differently: “Make society 
stop objectifying women through institutions 
like beauty pageants.” But I was also curious 
about their widespread allure, to the point of 
entering a pageant myself: the 2013 Connecti­
cut USA Extravaganza Pageant in New Haven. 
Maybe pageants offered  more ways to be beau­
tiful than I’d realized.
The Miss America pageant began in 1921 
as an Atlantic City summer resort festival. That 
first year, fifteen-year-old Margaret Gorman 
was crowned the winner because the judges 
deemed her capable of handling the responsi­
bilities of motherhood. Girls like Gorman rep­
resented an idea of American morality expect­
ed to hold the nation together after World War 
I in the age of Jay Gatsby, jazz, and the flapper’s 
loosening sexuality. Women had won the right 
to vote just the year before. In the twenties and 
thirties, Miss America winners exemplified 
conservative definitions of femininity: docile, 
unassuming, and chaste. 

The expectations for contestants have 
changed. The women who compete must per­
form a talent and have a social platform that 
they would use their title to promote. An oft-
cited fact about the Miss America Organiza­
tion is that it is the top scholarship provider for 
young women, doling out more than forty mil­
lion dollars each year. A re­
cent ad for the organization 
featured a young woman in 
a strapless dress holding 
a tiara, looking up at the 
words: “Some people call 
her a beauty queen. We call 
her a scholar.” Many of the 
women who have won the 
pageant in the last decade 
have been college graduates hoping to finance 
an education in law, medicine, or another pro­
fessional field. All of them have professed pas­
sion for community service. All of them have 
been confident and well-spoken. 

But does the proclaimed shift in values re­
ally reflect a deeper change in pageant philoso­
phy?
Logan West, a junior commercial dance ma­
jor at Pace University, claims that her pageant, 
the Connecticut USA Extravaganza Pageant, is 
different.
“I don’t really think it’s about the glitz and 
the glamour that most people expect. It’s re­
ally a fundraiser for my program, Unite Against 
Bullies Today.”
That’s how West billed her project to a Fox 
Connecticut news anchor in a September inter­
view. She insisted on the ways that her pageant 
didn’t fit the stereotype. Like many pageants, 
it included an interview, a swimsuit competi­
tion, an evening gown competition, and an op­
tional talent portion. But “swimwear” could be 
interpreted so loosely as to mean “anything you 
would wear to the beach.” It was open to boys 
and girls, men and women of (literally) all ages. 
And the forty-five-dollar entry fee supported 
a good cause, the anti-bullying organization 
West started when she was fourteen. The pag­
eant system isn’t based on judging the bodies 
of young women; with its alternative rules and 
overwhelmingly positive branding, West saw 
her pageant as a potential force for good.
At nineteen years old, West knows a thing 
or two about pageants, and the mainstream 
pageant circuit. In 2012, she won a crown at 
Miss Teen USA—a giant, pink-jeweled tiara, and 
a glimmering sash, to be specific. The title came 
with a $25,000 check. Originally from South­
ington, Connecticut, she became the first girl 
from the state ever to win the title. 

West spent the following year serving as a 
figurehead of the Miss Uni­
verse Organization.
During her reign, she 
promoted 
Unite 
Against 
Bullies Today, which teach­
es students in grades three 
through seven how to rec­
ognize and stop bullying us­
ing a five-step plan. School 
principals were much more 
willing to let her into classrooms to conduct 
anti-bullying workshops when Miss Teen USA 
was calling.
West and I Skyped a few weeks before the 
Extravaganza Pageant. Sitting in her Pace Uni­
versity dorm room, she looked nothing like she 
did in her TV appearances: no makeup, hair 
tucked away in a bun, body swallowed by a gi­
gantic gray sweatshirt, eyes framed by rect­
angular glasses. Her voice was still a bit nasal 
from the cold she’d had earlier in the week.
“I’m just a normal girl. I went to a normal 
school. I go to a normal college,” she said. “I just 
get to wear a crown sometimes.”
West had won a local pageant when she was 
four years old, but didn’t return again until she 
was thirteen, the year she started being bullied 
for not “acting her race.” West is the daughter 
of a white father and African-American moth­
er. For six months, another biracial girl in her 
class criticized her tastes in music, her friends, 
and her clothing—then slammed her into lock­
ers and spat on her. West entered the Miss 
America pageant system as a way to reclaim 
herself post-bullying. She was judged there too, 
but this time she was told that her clothes, her 
manner, and her opinions were right. Although 



**Title: Judging Beauty**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
december 2013
19
she has only ever done six pageants total, she’s 
won five out of the six. The exception was Miss 
America’s Outstanding Teen, a national title. 
The rules stipulated that she couldn’t enter 
herself in the contest again, but West was ea­
ger to win a national title. Doing so meant she 
had to switch to the Miss Universe system, and 
her mother and coach, Patricia West, was con­
cerned about that change. The Miss USA sys­
tem is more explicitly focused on beauty than 
Miss America: it doesn’t include a talent por­
tion or award scholarship money, and doesn’t 
ask contestants to have a social platform. 
“I’ve always told the girls, don’t rely on your 
beauty,” Patricia, who also coaches her other 
daughters, told me. “You’re going to have to 
have something more to back it up.”


Patricia supported Logan anyway, driving 
her to a martial arts center in West Haven five 
days a week so that she could get in shape with 
a world-class fitness coach for the dance por­
tion of her training. Every day, she drilled West 
on questions about current events to keep her 
up-to-date and able to express her opinions elo­
quently. “If you talk to me too quickly, I’ll say, 
‘Start that sentence over again.’ I know I can 
drive my kids absolutely insane,” Patricia said—
but she’s proud of the results, and she believes 
in pageants. “They force you to stay up on cur­
rent events, to know who you are, to know what 
you stand for.”


Then she made me an unexpected proposi­
tion:
“Have you considered entering the pageant 
yourself?”


I clammed up, then. I balked, making some 
excuses, stammering.  Finally, I took a deep 
breath. “I’ll think about it.”


A week later, I say yes.


I am not the first person Patricia has con­
vinced to give pageants a try. Her converts in­
clude Patrick Moore, the 2013 Extravaganza’s 
co-director, who met the Wests after a Tae 
Kwon Do class at the West Haven martial arts 
center (where Logan trained for Miss Teen 
USA). At the time, Moore didn’t know much 
about beauty pageants, but he knew he didn’t 
want his then four-year-old daughter Carlina 
to enter any. But Patricia convinced him to con­


The author walks on-stage for  the 2013 Connecticut USA Extravaganza Pageant.
Photos Courtesy of Ernest Hendersen



--- Page 20 ---

20
the new journal
sider the 2012 Extravaganza. 


In the months that followed, Moore worked 
on interview questions with his daughter a few 
nights a week. Questions necessitated explana­
tions. “Why is purple your favorite color?” he 
would ask her. He explained to me, “You bring 
it down to the fact that grapes are my favorite 
food and I like sunsets, so I like purple,” he said. 
“You have to bring it down to that level.” Some­
times, exhausted and impatient, Carlina cried, 
so they would pause in her practice. 


But Moore felt it was a vital supplement to 
her education. “What course in school do you 
take to get on stage and demonstrate inter­
viewing techniques under pressure?” he asked 
me.  “If she was uncomfortable with it, we would 
take a break for couple of days. We had no ex­
pectations of winning anything.” Carlina won 
the four- to six-year-old age division, as well as 
an award for Best Interview, beating out con­
testants nine years older than her.


I wait for my interview in the 2013 Extrav­
aganza Pageant, sitting in the airy auditorium-
cum-cafeteria at the John C. Daniels Interna­
tional School. The seven other contestants in 
the “Miss” (unmarried female adult) category 
gather around one of the lunch tables. Among 
us are a twenty-five-year old model, a bulldog 
breeder, a junior from Southern Connecticut 
State University (SCSU), and two of my friends 
from Yale (Patricia and Moore strongly encour­
aged me to get my friends to sign up). The judg­
es call us in one by one.


At the table with me is 24-year-old Tayler 
Ross, who I had met before the pageant itself. 
She’s been doing pageants since she was five, 
but she tells me the interview portion always 
freaks her out. Ross is the real reason my two 
friends and I are in this pageant; Moore had 
given me her contact information when I had 
only just learned about the pageant. During our 
interview a month ago, she’d promised to help 
me if I entered: “I’ve always wanted to coach 
someone and see if my coaching helped them 
do better.”  She then worked with me on two 
skills that her six-month-old baby, Jayana—also 
a pageant contestant—would be acquiring soon: 
walking and talking.


 “So let’s see your heels,” Ross said first 
while I pulled out my wedges. She donned four-
inch gray suede stilettos. Cuing up a Justin Tim­
berlake song on her tablet, she demonstrated 
her walk: a series of deliberate bounces, each 
step replacing the one before it in a seemingly 
straight line. She looked natural and unaffect­
ed. At the end of her walk, she twirled elegantly 
without once breaking eye contact. When it was 
my turn, I was supposed to follow her lead while 
also crafting a walk that somehow “expressed 
my personality.” Instead, I tried to replicate 
Ross’s movements.


With that, Ross quickly moved on to inter­


The contest was open to men and women of all ages. 


--- Page 21 ---

21
view practice. 
“Arielle, tell me what it’s like being a tour 
guide at the Yale Art Gallery. What is your fa­
vorite piece of art?”


I started babbling about a Futurist painting 
of an amusement park, but Ross interrupted me.
“Yoo-hoo, where are you looking?” My gaze 
had strayed to the side to avoid eye contact. 
“Eyes right here.” She pointed to her own eyes. 
She added that I had already said too many 
“umms” and “likes” and that I was connecting 
all my sentences with “and” instead of pausing 
between ideas. She had me try again.


It turned out Ross was a good coach. In 
front of the judge panel at the 2013 Connecti­
cut USA Extravaganza Pageant interview, head 
judge Liz Wong asks me the same exact art gal­
lery question. I feel confident when answer­
ing, making sure to pause be­
tween sentences.


But 
the 
judges’ 
next 
brings me to a stumbling halt.
“At this point in the pag­
eant, what is the title of your 
article going to be?”
 “Oh, good, good question.” 
I stall. The judges chuckle. 
“Maybe something like ‘judg­
ing beauty.’”


Knowing that I’d come 
in to test the beauty pageant world, their re­
sponse had been to test me.


In the afternoon comes the onstage com­
ponent of the pageant. Wong told me that girls 
win pageants from the neck up. “You only have 
the stage for fifteen seconds,” she said. “If you 
can get a judge to only focus on your face be­
cause you are exuding that much confidence 
and positivity, by the time you come offstage, as 
a judge I’m like, ‘Oh my gosh, I forgot to look at 
her body.’ It really isn’t about what you’re wear­
ing. It’s about what your face is doing.”


Still, I choose not to walk onstage in a biki­
ni. I wear a modest one-piece and on top of that, 
I wear a cover-up that probably sheaths more 
of my body than my evening gown will. I don’t 
want to feel like a piece of meat, and luckily 
I’ve entered a pageant that will forgive—even 
support—that impulse. At Patrick’s encourage­
ment, all of the contestants in the Miss catego­
ry are wearing cover-ups except for one.


The swimsuit portion is my first walk of the 
competition. When I get onstage, I’m distracted 
by the lyrics of the Keri Hilson song playing 
over the loudspeakers, “Don’t Hate Me ‘Cause 
I’m Beautiful.” (“All eyes on me when I walk in,/ 
No question that this girl’s a ten,/ Don’t hate 
me ‘cause I’m beautiful.”) I’m walking too fast. 
I pose awkwardly. I don’t know when to smile, 
when to look at the judges or the audience. 
My body feels like a machine whose manual I 
haven’t bothered to read. Distracted, I forget to 
do the graceful final turn that I practiced this 
morning and walk offstage abruptly.


Before the evening gown competition, I ask 
Angelica Belardo, the SCSU junior, if she will do 
my makeup. Five minutes later, she is thread­
ing my eyebrows. 


I’m terrified. I can wash makeup away, but 
my eyebrows are not going to grow for a long 
time, according to an­
other 
contestant. 
She 
says I won’t have to pluck 
them again for a month 
after they’re threaded. 
I’m touched when Belar­
do, seeing the concern on 
my face, apologizes for 
throwing all of this at me 
at once.


This is her first beau­
ty pageant, too. Belardo 
signed up wanting to support the anti-bully­
ing cause. She had told me about being bullied 
from the age of twelve through her senior year 
of high school. Her friends spread rumors us­
ing instant messaging, and talked about her 
at school. She would come home crying, and 
dreaded having to return the next day. 
“I didn’t really think of it as bullying,” Belar­
do had told when we talked before the pageant. 
“I thought of it as drama, and one of the normal 
things that people go through. It’s something 
that adolescents do.”


Her experience shaped her interest in 
how the mind works, leading to her major in 
psychology. Belardo hopes to get a master’s in 
social work, and eventually work with teenag­
ers who struggle with depression or substance 
abuse.


When we came to a discussion of my inter­
est in the pageant, I had told her I wanted to test 
my preconceived notions—that I came into the 
experience with a belief that beauty pageants 
were outdated, objectifying, and judgmental. 
I’m walking too fast. I 
pose awkwardly. I don’t 
know when to smile, when 
to look at the judges or 
the audience. My body 
feels like a machine 
whose manual I haven’t 
bothered to read.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Arielle Stambler**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
She interrupted me. “And that’s the op­
posite of what we’re trying to do with the pag­
eant,” she said. “It’s against bullying.”

I asked Belardo what she thought the dif­
ference was between the kind of judging that is 
implicit in bullying and the kind that makes up 
pageants.

“You’re bringing the best out of you,” she 
answered. “Your fashion sense, the way you 
express yourself.” Middle and high schoolers 
are disapproving rather than supportive in its 
judgment, she said, and without the confidence 
boosters of beauty pageants.

Belardo stumbled as she thought aloud 
about the drawbacks. “We should all equally 
win. I think that would be a better way…I’m not 
really sure.”

She ultimately answered that the way pag­
eants combat bullying is through the confi­
dence they give people to stand up on stage and 
know that “you don’t have to be accepted every­
where you go.”

When Belardo finishes my makeup, I am 
wearing so much I can see it in my peripheral 
vision. She shows me how I look in a compact 
mirror. My T-zone is now hairless and my eye­
brows don’t look dramatically different, just 
more even. Seeing the makeup, I understand 
for the first time why they call it “eyeshadow”—
the sparkly dark blue powder looks indeed like 
a long shadow cast by my eyes and extending 
almost up to the arches of my newly-slimmed 
brows. Belardo has extended the black eyeliner 
ever so slightly into the crow’s feet that ring the 
corners of my eyes.

“True beauty is what shines out when you 
compete,” I remember Patricia West saying to 
me. “You can have the most beautiful body and 
face. But if inside there’s not just a genuine love 
for others and community, you’re not going 
to look so pretty on stage. Pageants teach you 
about being a total package. You’re well-spo­
ken, give back to community, and you’re smart, 
and happen to be pretty.”

Everyone in the room tells me I look beauti­
ful and that my face will look dramatic from the 
audience’s perspective. They praise Belardo for 
her masterful work.

My friend Salma Dali, who is also compet­
ing, borrows my fanciest dress for pageant day. 
It is a fuchsia floor-length gown with a halter-
top, a criss-crossed back, and tiny jewels on 
the bust. When Salma answers her onstage 
question in it (“As a neuroscience lab assistant, 
what are your goals to make a change in our 
society?”), she looks beautiful, poised, and well-
meaning—everything this pageant loves. She 
wins the “Miss” division.

Yet Wong, the head judge, reveals that she 
had actually pegged me as her winner after the 
interview. I’m shocked by this. “You answered 
every question as if we were having a conver­
sation,” she said. “You didn’t come in expecting 
to win. You came in like, this is who I am, this is 
what I’m doing.”

Everything I’d been told about this pageant 
suggested that it was meant to give people the 
opportunity to work specifically on building 
self-confidence. But hearing the judge’s ratio­
nale still left me with questions about what it 
means to win pageants, why pageant culture 
rewards what it does, and what participants—
winners and losers—want from the experience. 
It seems that everybody gets something a little 
different. Through pageants, West has gained 
a substantial platform from which to promote 
her organization. Ross has learned how to ex­
ude grace and speak with poise on a stage. Car­
lina Moore has gotten to feel like a princess. 
All of them have chosen to do something 
that I learned is both nerve-wracking and dif­
ficult. They subscribe to a values system about 
responding to judgment with poise, and accept­
ing it. They believe that the skills necessary 
to excel in pageants are valuable outside the 
pageant world—and that within it, those fac­
tors can be evaluated, without making deeper, 
possibly damaging judgments about beauty or 
personality. They believe this with mission­
ary zeal, and though I don’t trust all the tenets 
of this religion, there is something about their 
faith that tugs at me.

I re-watch the video of my performance at 
the pageant. It’s both me, and distinctly not me. 
I remember shaking on stage, but that doesn’t 
come across. My voice hadn’t tremble as much 
as I’d thought it had. I walked faster than I was 
supposed to. I did smile awkwardly, like I was 
trying to show I’d understood a joke that I didn’t 
really get, when Carlina yelled, “Go, Arielle!” 
The audience clapped when I left.

Arielle Stambler is a senior in
Morse College and a Staff 
Writer for the New Journal.


**Title: Breadlines**
**Author: Maya Averbuch**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

I
n a small apartment in Fair Haven, Patricia 
Stuart goes to get a letter from her bedroom. 
Family Feud plays in the background as she 
emerges with an envelope in hand, and begins 
to read in a low, gravelly voice: “In accordance 
with the American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act of 2009, maximum allotments can only 
remain the same each year until the regular 
Thrifty Food Plan adjustment increased allot­
ments above those set by the Recovery Act.” 
In comprehensible terms, the news is bad: her 
food stamp benefits have been cut from two 
hundred dollars a month to $189. 
“What are we supposed to do?” she had 
asked soon after I walked in. Stuart, a tall, mid­
dle-aged woman wearing a colorful robe, spends 
most days at home or in the doctor’s office. Seat­
ed at her living room table, she shows me why 
she has been out of work for the last few years—
she cannot lift her right arm more than a couple 
of inches. “Just moving it hurts right now,” she 
says softly, before laying it gently back in her 
lap. When she needs to leave the apartment, 
her goddaughter drives her, because taking the 
bus causes panic attacks. She places the letter 
alongside financial statements, pill bottles, and 
a bouquet of plastic roses. 

Stuart is one of over 36,000 New Haven 
residents who receive food stamps, officially 
known as SNAP benefits, through the Supple­
mental Nutrition Assistance Program. In 2009, 
the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act 
gave people like her across the country ex­
tra food dollars to get them through the hard 
times of the recession. That temporary boost 
ended on November 1, forcing many to adjust 
their budgets. Legislators had assumed that the 
economy would pick up by the law’s expiration 
date, but in the New Haven, unemployment has 
stubbornly remained at twelve percent, and the 
cost of living has gone up. Some Connecticut 
representatives are part of the battle: Repre­
sentative Rosa DeLauro has protested vehe­
mently against additional reductions, and Sen­
ator Chris Murphy made headlines for eating 
on a SNAP budget for nearly a week last spring.

Since the cuts, Stuart has kept an especially 
sharp eye out for coupons and sales. She bought 
five pounds of potatoes and a five-pound bag of 
flour for ninety-nine cents each at ShopRite. 
Once a month, she stops at a food pantry to get 
additional supplies. “I don’t eat too much of the 
fresh stuff,” she notes. In fact, she tries not to 
each too much at all. She grows weary when I 
mention that under the Farm Bill being debated 
in Congress, several billion food stamp dollars 
may be cut once more.


On a map of food insecurity in Con­
necticut, New Haven is a dark stain, indicating 
that people here are worse off than those in the 
rest of the state. The portion of city residents 
on food stamps has approached thirty percent 
in the past few years, and the problem is wors­
ened by governmental disorder. In the spring of 
2013, a federal judge ordered that the Connect­
icut Department of Social Services (DSS) fix its 
“systemic deficiencies,” including illegally long 
wait times and frequent loss of applications. 
But by the numbers, fewer people go hun­
gry in Connecticut than in other parts of the 
country. In New Haven, the DSS has embarked 
a path of modernization, and nongovernmen­
tal resources are also readily available to resi­
dents. There are numerous soup kitchens, food 
pantries, and shelters. People spend at farmers’ 
markets, which double the value of their SNAP 
dollars and give them greater access to fresh 
fruits and vegetables. When asked if people 
are hungry in New Haven, Robert Jackson, a 
supervisor at the New Haven Community Soup 
Kitchen, says they shouldn’t be.  Holding a mop 
in his emptied dining hall, he notes matter-of-
factly: “There are so many places that feed you.” 
But the lines keep getting longer. With the 
food stamp cuts arriving right before Thanks­
giving and not long before the winter cold, peo­
ple have turned increasingly toward nonprofit 
aid. The city’s charitable network finds itself 
spread thin.

On a Tuesday morning at the New Haven 
Community Soup Kitchen, Rick Durance, the 
Photos by Maya Averbuch and Maya Binyam



**Title: The Hunger Games: SNAP Cuts in New Haven**
**Author: Maya Averbuch**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
december 2013
25
assistant to the executive director, says, “De­
cember is looking bad, and January is going 
to be worse.” A former Michigan resident and 
AmeriCorps volunteer, Durance moved to Con­
necticut to work at Christ Church Episcopal 
in downtown New Haven, which runs the soup 
kitchen. In that time, he’s seen the numbers 
of meals the kitchen serves jump. Now, in the 
last week of every month, the one-room dining 
hall prepares to serve an unprecedented three 
hundred lunches. Durance expects the figures 
will only increase as New Haven starts to feel 
the effects of the SNAP cuts. “Folks are feeling 
shunned,” he says, “We’re feeling unable to pro­
vide for a community we care about.”

David O’Sullivan, Durance’s soft-spoken 
boss, tells me that the clientele has changed 
considerably in the twenty-seven years he 
has worked at the kitchen. When he started, 
he says, the typical beneficiary was an older 
male with a drinking problem. Now, the people 
who come looking for a meal are, on the whole, 
younger, whiter, more well-to-do, and some­
times toting kids. “For a lot of the newer folks, 
you can sense the stress levels are higher,” he 
tells me. They come in asking for assistance 
the soup kitchen cannot provide—diapers, baby 
food, rent assistance. Though a SNAP coordi­
nator is sometimes on hand to direct them to 
the Department of Social Services, O’Sullivan 
says, “The government has stepped back.” The 
annual twenty thousand dollars in governmen­
tal funds that Christ Church Episcopal had re­
ceived for the past five years has been cut. Now 
the directors have to rely on grants, donations, 
and fundraisers.

I leave just as the first of the lunch crowd 
files in. They make their way towards stacks of 
bread and pots of hot food fresh from the ad­
joining stainless-steel kitchen. With Farm Bill 
cuts of anything between four and forty billion 
dollars over the next ten years, Durance fears 
that soup kitchens and food pantries will not 
be able to handle the demand. “They will close, 
unequivocally,” he says, with a hard look in his 
eyes. He hopes, however, that his kitchen will 
be an exception.

Those who cannot line up for cooked meals 
often stock their own fridges and cupboards 
with the help of food pantries instead. The fol­
lowing Saturday, I am standing in front of the 
Episcopal Church of St. Paul and St. James. The 
church runs Loaves & Fishes, the largest week­
ly New Haven pantry that allows its guests—as 
the program manager, Reverend Keith Voets, 
calls them—to pick out their own food. Voets 
had told me that people line up well before the 
pantry’s 9 a.m. opening. When I arrive at 8:30, 
there is already a line around the block. 

Inside, John Castillo, the church’s good-
natured caretaker, directs me to the serving 
area. A food stamp recipient himself, he seems 
mostly unfazed by the SNAP reduction: “It has 
caused me to cut back a little on red meat, but 
other than that it’s basically the same.” Yet the 
times are not easy for him: he tells me about his 
multiple sclerosis and how his household in­
cludes his six younger siblings, all in the same 
cheerful tones with which he had given me 
directions. Pay from the church is not enough 
for Castillo to go without assistance, but he 
says that New Haven has offered him much 
more support than New York, where he grew 
up. Plus, he insists, he fares better than some 
others who are struggling here. As we speak, 
someone in the next room yells, “We’re about to 
get started,” and the volunteers’ opening prayer 
drifts through the door: “Give us today our daily 
bread…”

Loaves & Fishes gets most of its food from 
the Connecticut Food Bank, one of two large 
food assistance banks in the state. The CT Food 
Bank, whose central location is in nearby East 
Haven, also relies on donations from local mar­
kets and growers. Government food provisions 
have run thin, and the decline is expected to 
continue. Neither the Food Bank nor the pan­
tries know how many of the people who come in 
are on food stamps, but with more cuts to come, 
CT Food Bank Communications Director Mary 
Ingarra says the Food Bank is expecting more 
of a strain on its programs.

Back in the volunteer area of Loaves & 
Fishes, the strain is visible. Volunteers shuttle 
around quickly, cutting pie for guests and bag­
ging bread to deliver to elderly people at home. 
A teenage girl hurtles by, saying, “We have an 
egg spill. Eggs are down.” A white-haired man 
peers out of the kitchen to ask, “Does anyone 
know how to make coffee in these things?” 
Another, wearing a pink sweater and jeans, de­
clares, “Straight-up chaotic today.” 

In the next room, a volunteer holds up num­
bered laminated papers to make sure guests 
reach the food tables in an orderly fashion. 


--- Page 26 ---

26
the new journal
Individuals who arrive with their own bags 
get an extra item from a table with Thanks­
giving staples like stove-top turkey stuffing, 
while the rest move on to the standard fare: 
packets of rice, cans of sweet corn and green 
beans, bags of potatoes, and fresh zucchini. A 
chart on the wall displays pictures and labels of 
lesser-known fruits and vegetables, including 
yucca and various kinds of yautía—presumably 
part of the young new reverend’s plan to make 
guests’ diets more nutritious. Loaves & Fishes 
also runs a small free medical clinic, and the 
rates of diabetes and obesity that volunteers 
see are staggering, Voets says.

Two older women cross in front of me. 
“Venga por aquí,” one says to the other. An­
other woman runs forward saying, “Wait, wait, 
wait,” before grabbing the hand of a small child. 
Loaves & Fishes does not ask any questions of 
its guests, so it does not have statistics on its 
clients’ demographics, but one can observe the 
people who mill about. The pink-sweatered 
volunteer declares that many are drug addicts 
who trade in their SNAP swipes for cash at local 
grocery stores and then show up at the pantry. 
Nationally, only one cent on every SNAP dollar 
spent is illegally exchanged for cash, a fraud 
rate that has dropped in recent years. Both 
Voets and volunteer captain Sally Fleming tell 
me that many of their guests are working poor, 
people with one or more low-wage jobs who still 
struggle to make ends meet. Fleming, a small, 
gray-haired woman who slips in and out of sight 
as other volunteers ask for her assistance, says, 
“I don’t think anyone’s starving, but there are 
certain families that run out of food and have 
to live on pasta by the end of the month.”


For the homeless, who have nowhere to 
store food or cook meals, options are even more 
limited. Yet the shelters they turn to are not 
always able to provide the food they need. At 
Columbus House, one of New Haven’s largest 
homeless shelters and social service organiza­
tions, Paula Bowe explains that she is border­
line diabetic, and it’s crucial that she maintains 
a healthy diet—with fresh vegetables, lean 
meat, fish, and not too many carbs—to prevent 
the disease from worsening. “It’s the stuff that 
you’re not supposed to have that you can afford,” 
she says, seated at a table in the shelter’s office 
space. Columbus House Intake Specialist Mar­
tha Deeds, a young woman with short-cropped 
blonde hair, points out that though homeless­
ness often exacerbates people’s health issues, 
the shelter cannot cater to all dietary restric­
tions. “The options are limited,” she says. 

Bowe speaks vehemently about her fight 
to support herself—and her adult disabled 
son—within the system she depends on. She 
lost her longtime job as a clerk at Stop & Shop 
three years ago, after a car accident sent her to 
the hospital. She lived off savings and settle­
ment money for months, but both have run out, 
forcing her to seek help at Columbus House. 
She struggled with the Department of Social 
Services; her SNAP benefits were cut off when 
her renewal form was sent to her old mailbox. 
When she applied again, the office misplaced 
her documents. Like others, she has become 
jaded: “If my body would let me, I’d rather work 
eighty hours a week than deal with the federal 
or the state government.” I ask her about the 
department’s new office, which has made use 
of a statewide system to manage clients’ ac­
counts online and a new scanning process to 
prevent lost documents. There’s more staff and 
wait times have decreased significantly, but af­
ter her fight, Bowe remains skeptical: “It’s the 
same old welfare office.”

Work is hard to come by for Bowe, giv­
en that she cannot operate a computer eas­
ily, which she says is required for most jobs. 
Though the state has stepped in to cover her 
future rent, paying utilities without an income 
is impossible. She hopes to move out of Colum­
bus House as soon as possible, but she worries 
that even with a kitchen, she will struggle to 
prepare healthy meals. For now, she practices 
her computer skills in the hopes of finding em­
ployment.

To successfully advocate against future 
cuts, those affected need to tell their stories, 
says William Bromage, chair of the Food As­
sistance Working Group, and they need to do it 
well: “Everyone can tell their story, but not ev­
eryone can do it concisely and powerfully.” 
The group is part of the New Haven Food 
Policy Council, which has banded together with 
local nonprofits to train a few people to do so. 
The twelve chosen food advocates come from 
all over New Haven, and most rely on assis­
tance—whether from SNAP, soup kitchens, or 
food pantries. In October, they attended a five-
hour training session to learn how to speak at 


--- Page 27 ---

27
a legislative hearing, write letters to newspa­
per editors, and reach out to fellow community 
members. 

The advocates are paid for an eleven-hour 
internship, anything from attending confer­
ences to assisting with surveys to—I’m un­
nerved to learn—speaking with reporters. But 
Bromage points out that the $12.50-per-hour 
compensation is necessary when dealing with 
such a low-income population. There are, of 
course, barriers to what they can do. At one 
council meeting, food advocate Kimberly Hart 
complains, “Policymakers can testify for hours. 
When I testify? Three minutes.” And perhaps 
there is some heartstring-pulling. 

Patricia Stuart, who lives in Fair Haven, is 
another one of the food advocates. Initially she 
speaks of the food stamp cuts with resignation: 
“There’s no sense in trying to fight it, because 
you won’t win.” But she attended part of the 
food advocate meetings, and plans to return. 
Among people like her, there’s a sense of col­
lective vulnerability. The poor, especially those 
who struggle with multiple jobs or imperma­
nent housing, are often not the ones closely 
following federal debates. Faraway politicians 
hand down decisions, and the consequences, 
announced in the formal language of legisla­
tion, translate to a lost gallon of milk, or one 
more bruised tomato. 

The food advocates are just a handful of 
New Haven citizens, but they represent many 
others. In conversation, they tell the stories 
of people—a friend with kids, a woman in the 
street, a couple featured in the paper—who are 
struggling more than they are. They speak not 
the language of policymakers but instead the 
language of empty shopping carts and skipped 
meals. Their perspective, they hope, will 
change the spirit of the debate—if lawmakers 
hear them.

Maya Averbuch is a sophomore in 
Berkeley College and an Associate 
Editor for the New Journal.



**Title: The other side of Project Longevity, New Haven’s much-touted gangs initiative.**
**Author: Zoe Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On November 26, 2012, twenty-five alleged members of two of the most violent gangs in New Ha­
ven filed into the Hall of Records, an imposing stone building with wide white columns on Orange 
Street. At the door, Reverend William Mathis greeted the young people, all of whom were on probation 
or parole. Those twenty-five were about to attend the first “call-in” of Project Longevity, a new police 
initiative that has come to exemplify the practical challenges even the most progressive anti-violence 
programs face. 


New Haven is a small city with a high homicide rate. Between 2003 and 2012, 185 people were 
killed in the city. In 2011, violence reached a twenty-year high, with thirty-four homicides and 133 
non-fatal shootings. At the end of that year, the mayor hired a new chief of police, Dean Esserman, and 
gave him clear orders: stop the shootings. 


Esserman already knew New Haven well. He had been the assistant chief of police in the nineties, 
when he helped institute community policing in every area. Cops walked neighborhood beats instead 
of driving in circles, gathered intelligence on gang leaders instead of petty criminals, and steered 
people towards social services instead of jail. In 1993, Esserman left for a job in New York. The depart­
ment’s budget was cut and subsequent chiefs reverted to more traditional law enforcement methods, 
which saturated violent areas with police and racked up arrests.


Now Esserman is back, and so is community policing. In 2012, he helped launch Project Longevity, 
a program that, though widely praised, has left some in the community feeling unfairly targeted and 
unwilling to buy in. 


For eleven months before the first call-in, a 
team of cops, detectives, academics, and activ­
ists studied the perpetrators and victims of the 
worst violence in New Haven. Officially, these 
are “groups,” just a step or two above cliques, 
and not “gangs,” which are fairly established, 
with an internally-recognized hierarchy. The 
team went through five years of police records. 
They interviewed neighborhood cops, proba­
tion and parole officers, federal agents, and 
family members. They analyzed relationships 
between individuals. If you murdered Jim, they 
asked, who else was in the car? What was your 
relationship with Jim before the shooting? Who 
do you hang out with? 


The cops used to just track down and ar­
rest an individual in connection to a crime, but 
Project Longevity has expanded the scope of 
their inquiry. Police can react to a gang-related 
murder by focusing their attention on an entire 
network. And the police aren’t working alone—
state and federal law enforcement have also 
promised to crack down on whole groups who 
do not heed Project Longevity’s message.  


In November, Project Longevity brought in 
alleged gang members for a two-hour meeting. 
They displayed the initiative’s “table of organi­
zation” they had created over the past eleven 
months, a map of relationships that visually 
linked each person in the room. The team’s mes­
sage was clear: we know who you are. We know 
who your friends are. The body count ends now. 


“The first of you who goes to kill—we don’t 
just go after you,” Esserman says, summarizing 
his speech at the first call-in for me one after­
noon in his office. “We go after all of you. You 
might not be responsible for the murder, but 
you are responsible for being part of the gang. 
Look to your left and look to your right—you are 
your brother’s and your sister’s keeper. What 
one does, the gang pays for.” 


Project Longevity’s “focused deterrence” 
approach originated in Boston in the nineties 
with David Kennedy, now a professor at the 
John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New 
York. In his book Don’t Shoot, Kennedy writes 
that the people committing violent crimes are 
“not an entire generation, not everybody in 
the hot neighborhoods, not all the young black 
men. Not everybody exposed to violent video 
games or rap. Not everybody from a single-par­
ent family. Not everybody who could get a gun 
if they wanted one.” 


Focused deterrence is based on a com­
mon pattern identified by criminologists: the 
overwhelming majority of violence in cities is 
caused by a very small percentage of the popu­
lation that moves in identifiable groups. The 
opposite of focused deterrence is general de­
terrence—the “stop and frisk” program in New 
York City, for example, which was recently 
declared unconstitutional by a federal appeals 
court—where everyone gets police attention, 
whether or not they are violent offenders. 


According to a 2009 New Yorker article, 
Kennedy began developing the roots of what 
would become the Project Longevity strategy 
in 1994, when the National Institute of Justice 
gave him and two colleagues a grant to study 
gang violence in Boston. Kennedy met Paul 
Joyce, the leader of a city police unit focused on 
gangs. Joyce had been quietly and successfully 
reducing homicides among some of Boston’s 
most violent gangs. 


Joyce had realized that law enforcement 
officials and punitive measures alone couldn’t 
make people stop shooting. No matter how long 
prison sentences were, or how many young men 
got arrested, the number of homicides stayed 
constant. But if people with moral authority in 
the community—local clergy, grandmothers, 
and victims of violence—told violent offenders 
to stop shooting, they were more likely to listen. 


Kennedy studied Joyce’s tactics for six 
months, eventually developing a framework 
for focused deterrence as a citywide program. 
Instead of asking cops to deliver informal noti­
fications to individual gang members, Kennedy 
and his colleagues designed a forum—the call-
in—where they identified members of gangs 
to come together and hear the clear message: 
if one member of a gang commits murder, the 
whole unit will be placed under a microscope. 


Five months after the first call-in, the homicide 
rate had gone down by seventy-one percent. 
People started calling it “The Boston Miracle.” 


The first person I met who had been “called 
in” to Project Longevity, Sean, seemed to be a 
homegrown New Haven miracle. I was taking a 
sociology class called “The Urban Street Gang” 
with Project Longevity researcher and Yale 
professor Andrew Papachristos, who identi­
fies gang members in New Haven and analyz-


es their links to each other. We learned about 
Project Longevity from four panelists: Rever­
end Mathis, the director of the program; Doug 
Bethea, a street outreach worker whose son 
was murdered in 2006; Thomas McDaniels, who 
founded a support group for grieving family 
members called “Fathers Cry Too”; and Bethea’s 
son Sean, a twenty-two-year-old convicted fel­
on who was on probation and had been called in 
to one of Project Longevity’s first meetings. 


Sean sat quietly at our seminar table while 
Reverend Mathis explained the basics of the 
program. Then it was Sean’s turn to speak. He 
told us that in 2009 he went to jail for robbery; 
he has since been released and is now on pro­
bation until 2015. His probation officer man­
dated he attend Project 
Longevity’s meeting. He 
has since moved out of 
his old neighborhood, he 
dresses differently, and 
he doesn’t hang out with 
the same people.
“I 
wanna 
change,” 
Sean said. “I don’t wanna die out here.”  


The people in charge of Project Longevity 
are optimistic that there are many others like 
Sean who want to change, and who will change. 
Reverend Mathis said that the program will 
lead violent offenders to “life—and life more 
abundantly.” Attorney General Eric Holder gave 
a press conference in New Haven the day after 
attending the city’s first call-in and said, “Proj­
ect Longevity will send a powerful message to 
those who would harm their fellow citizens.” 


Chief Esserman said Project Longevity will 
have a profound effect on the relationship be­
tween the community and the police because 
“the community—in the full light of day—sees 
us giving their children a second chance.” 


As I learned more about the program, I 
found that the voices of one central constituen­
cy are absent from the media coverage. Where 
were the people who had been called in? What 
were they saying?


Reverend Mathis would not release the 
names of the call-in invitees, and neither would 
Professor Papachristos or Barbara Tinney, 
who leads Project Longevity’s social services. 
The formal avenues had failed, so I went to the 
street. 


Kensington Street is a wide city street a few 
blocks west of downtown New Haven. Large 
white and beige houses with two-story porches 
are interspersed with brick apartment build­
ings and smaller row houses. At Kensington 
and Chapel, a steady flow of people enter Dux 
Market to buy cigarettes and lottery tickets, 
or stand by the curb to catch up with neighbor­
hood friends.  


The consensus among the residents I speak 
with is that Kensington Street used to be crazy. 
Asia and Joshua, who look about eighteen and 
are standing by a grassy park halfway down 
the street, say the neighborhood used to be 
so crowded, you could look to either side and 
only see people. Gus, a middle-aged man who 
works at Dux, says there used to be people sell­
ing drugs outside his shop 
in broad daylight. An older 
woman tells me in the eight­
ies Kensington was “really 
rough.” 


Everyone 
agrees 
that 
Kensington is calmer than it 
used to be, though the cause 
and timing of this transformation are up for 
debate. Some say it happened a year ago, when 
everyone got arrested; others say it happened 
eight years ago, when everyone got arrested. 


When I walk down to Kensington one after­
noon, there are clusters of people sitting on 
stoops, hanging out in yards, pushing strollers, 
and leaning out of parked-car windows. 


Laquanna Miller is standing outside her 
sister’s house, watching her two-year-old neph­
ew Tramire. Miller remembers standing on the 
porch of this same house in October, when a 
drive-by shooter on Kensington accidentally 
shot Tramire in the chest. The bullet fractured 
his pelvis and caused citywide outrage. Today 
Tramire is grinning, wearing a blue sweatshirt. 


Miller’s son was called in to Project Longev­
ity, and she has less than glowing things to say 
about the program. 


“Basically, I don’t think it’s working,” she 
says. “Still people getting shot, still people sell­
ing drugs.”


Her criticisms are two-fold: first, by going 
through the probation and parole lists, the re­
searchers and cops working on Project Longev­
ity aren’t necessarily targeting people actively 
making trouble on the street. 


“Just because you hang in the area doesn’t 
mean you’re in a gang,” Miller says. According 



**Title: Project Longevity**
**Author: Zoe Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
december 2013
31
to her, they brought in some young men who 
aren’t actively involved in violence, like her 
son, and they didn’t call in some young men who 
are. She seems uncomfortable with the basic 
premise of the program—that people should be 
accountable for the actions of their networks 
of friends.  

Second, she has no idea what the program 
does or how it works. If they’re trying to bring 
the community together to help fight violence, 
she says this program isn’t a good way to do it. 
Her son, who shows up mid-way through our 
conversation, received a letter from his proba­
tion officer about the call-in. He didn’t know 
what it was about, and didn’t want to show up, 
but his probation officer made him. “I don’t even 
understand what Longevity is,” Miller says. “Is 
it for drugs, is it for guns, is it for both?” 

Her son would not give me his name, and 
most people I spoke to who had been called in 
wanted to stay off the record. This, of course, 
helped explain why their voices were largely 
missing from the media coverage of Project 
Longevity. Because they wouldn’t give their 
names, it was difficult and often impossible to 
fact check their stories, or go back to them for 
more information. Their critiques lacked the 
specificity offered by the sociologists and po­
lice officers I spoke with, but ultimately, they 
were the ones with firsthand information about 
the experience of being called in. 

Miller’s son says the program doesn’t actu­
ally give people the tools to change. 
“It’s bullshit,” he says. He and other young 
men in the neighborhood were told to get off 
the streets—but no one can get a job, and, he 
says, the street is the only place to make a liv­
ing. He thought the social workers connected 
to Project Longevity would get people jobs, but 
they haven’t.
“Us being from the streets, we don’t know 
if they’re pushing their power,” he tells me. His 
criticism challenges the basic trade-off pro­
posed by Project Longevity—that the police 
will help you out with jobs and social services, 
if you’ll help them by not shooting. But to Mill­
er’s son, the power disparity between the police 
and the alleged gang members is so wide that 
a give-and-take model just seems unfair. How 
could he trust police after years of watching 
them round up his friends? 

The other Kensington Street residents who 
were called in to Project Longevity had similar 
criticisms. One young man in a red sweatshirt 


Charts Courtesy of CT Data


32
is angry about the infringements on rights. He 
says the cops are targeting whole groups of 
people for individual crimes, even when many 
of those targeted have nothing to do with those 
crimes. He says he’s not in a gang and he doesn’t 
want to be treated as if he is.  The loose red 
sweatshirt he’s wearing now is the same one 
he was wearing recently when a cop stopped 
him and said he could go back to jail for wear­
ing red, because this is a Bloods area. But he just 
got out of jail, he says, and he has to wear what 
he has. Another teenager 
says he isn’t a Blood, and he 
doesn’t understand why he 
was called in as an alleged 
member of the gang. A third 
young man pulls a Project 
Longevity business card out 
of his pocket, and says the call-ins weren’t use­
ful because there was “too much police there.” 
The negative associations he had with the po­
lice were simply too strong to overcome in one 
meeting.  

When I tell Chief Esserman that some par­
ticipants feel like they are being wrongly iden­
tified as gang members just because they’re on 
probation and parole, he responds quickly and 
firmly. 
“They’re bullshitting you,” he says. “We 
didn’t just call you in because you’re on proba­
tion and parole, because how come we didn’t 
call in ninety percent of everyone on probation 
and parole?” Esserman says the Project Longev­
ity team did careful, precise research for the 
eleven months before the call-in. They went 
through five years of records. They did link 
analysis, creating maps of social networks. 
When I ask if it’s possible that they’ve made 
mistakes, or misidentified people, he says, 
sure—
“That bullet could have gone into their 
body by accident when they were in the Yale 
emergency room, and the guy we arrested and 
convicted for shooting them could have been 
wrong, and the gun could have been make-be­
lieve and they could have been from Mars and 
they really weren’t the person who was dying 
in the hospital that day.” He looks at me as if I 
could not be more naïve. 

He says his team is not “fishing,” that those 
called in were summoned for specific, re­
search-backed reasons. They are not dragging 
a net down Kensington Street, looking for poor 
people or black people or people with a crimi­
nal record. “We’re doing the exact opposite,” he 
says. “We’re surgeons.”
And even as some of the participants in 
Project Longevity say the program is at odds 
with the community’s interests, there are also 
residents on Kensington Street who agree 
with the police’s crime-fighting efforts. Gus, 
who works at the corner store, tells me the 
neighborhood has changed for the better, and 
that “the police are doing a good job.” A young 
mother named Mary says 
community policing can 
be frustrating, but she’s 
also grateful for their vigi­
lance, because she has a 
little girl. 	
“That’s why the cops 
are taking everyone,” she says. “’Cause we have 
to think of the children.”
	

Project Longevity isn’t taking every­
one. But the main challenge for the police is 
that their surgical work can look and feel to ev­
eryone else like an arbitrary round-up of all the 
young men in the neighborhood. 

Scot Esdaile, the president of the Connecti­
cut NAACP, is one of the most vocal critics of 
Project Longevity. He grew up in Newhallville, 
another neighborhood whose gang population 
has been targeted through the initiative. He 
says he knows everyone in the neighborhood, 
and that the kids who were called in com­
plained to him afterwards. 
“The kids said, ‘Scot, they brought us in, 
they bought us pizza and soda, and all they did 
was threaten us,’” Esdaile recalls. Esdaile is 
frustrated because he says the program seems 
like it was simply imposed by law enforcement 
without considering the input of the commu­
nity. 

Reverend Mathis and Chief Esserman con­
tend that they held a series of meetings with 
the community before they launched the ini­
tiative. They briefed local politicians, clergy 
members, and activists on Project Longevity, 
and asked particularly interested people to 
join the team. 

The debate over Project Longevity raises 
the question of what constitutes “the commu­
nity.” All the people I talk to are trying to speak 
for the community, either implicitly or explic­
itly: Scot Esdaile, Reverend Mathis, the New 


“They’re bullshitting you. 
We didn’t just call you 
in because you’re on 
probation and parole.”


33
Haven Police Department, the residents on 
Kensington Street. But the community is het­
erogeneous, and in this case, it’s divided. Even 
if Project Longevity is a thoughtful, precise 
program based on months of data collection, 
there is still the challenge of making sure those 
affected understand the program and support 
its results. 

It is much too early to tell what impact 
Project Longevity is going to make. The num­
bers in New Haven are small, and the call-ins 
only began a year ago. Its official evaluation 
will happen in three years, and will be con­
ducted by Professor Papachristos and a team of 
colleagues. They will determine the success of 
the program based on whether there is a statis­
tically significant reduction in shootings and 
arrests for violent crimes among the groups 
they’ve been working with. Papachristos’s re­
search team meets weekly and tracks every 
single shooting that occurs within the city, to 
determine whether or not it was gang-related. 
The team hopes to steadily collect enough data 
to establish if Project Longevity is helping to 
stop the shootings.  

One Sunday morning, I attend Reverend 
Mathis’s church service on Sperry Street, one 
block away from Kensington. The Springs of 
Life Giving Water Church is not large—it has 
only twelve chipped black pews in its center 
aisle—but it is lively. There is a full drum set 
and keyboard; the music is so loud I can’t quite 
hear what the fellow congregants say when we 
lean in to bless each other. Reverend Mathis 
wears a long black robe with red buttons. He 
wipes the sweat from his forehead as he deliv­
ers a spirited sermon and leads us to Hebrews 
10:24: “And let us consider how to stir up one 
another to love and good works, not neglecting 
to meet together, as is the habit of some, but 
encouraging one another, and all the more as 
you see the Day drawing near.” 

Reverend Mathis tells us that we must be 
encouragers for those around us who have lost 
their way. Seeing me in the audience, he adds 
to his sermon that Project Longevity is about 
encouraging the people who commit violence 
in New Haven to change their course; it is about 
showing them that the community cares about 
them, and is affected by them. 

In Reverend Mathis’s view, as in Project 
Longevity’s view, we are all our brothers’ keep­
ers. It is our job, as community members, or ser­
vice providers, or police officers, to steer gang 
members towards the right path.  It is up to 
those who can to prevent the man on his right 
from pulling the trigger, and to keep the man 
on his left from drawing a knife. 

But whether or not Project Longevity suc­
ceeds in numerical metrics, a question remains. 
How can a program overcome a divided commu­
nity and years of mutual mistrust between po­
lice and people on the street? When we discuss 
“community,” who is responsible for whom? 
There is an enormous gap between the people 
trying to provide encouragement and the peo­
ple who are supposed to receive it. Even while 
Reverend Mathis and Chief Esserman and a 
host of other leaders encourage gang members 
to be their brothers’ keepers, many of the par­
ticipants in Project Longevity don’t agree that 
they are brothers. They do not want to be kept. 

Zoe Greenberg is a senior 
in Berkeley College.



**Title: VITAL SIGNS**
**Author: Julia Calagiovanni**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“I’ve always had an uncomfortable rela­tionship with institutions,” Peggy Chinn, a professor of nursing, declares from the podium. 

The audience laughs in agreement. They don’t tend to get along with authority, either. They’ve gathered at the University of Penn­sylvania’s School of Nursing on a September weekend to find others like themselves at the first Rebellious Nursing! conference. For these nurses, who bring a far-left perspective that’s uncommon in their profession, the weekend promises to be part homecoming, part summit; part protest, part celebration.


These “rebellious nurses” know that the biggest struggles aren’t always the ones that have to do with blood and guts. The social issues that loom large over the country are impossible to ignore when bodies become battlegrounds, and when the effects of poverty and discrimi­nation are seen up close in emergency rooms and clinics. At the same time, society isn’t al­ways kind to nurses themselves; in the medical hierarchy, they’re often treated as less valuable than doctors. These nurses are here to plot and strategize, to win respect for their profession and quality care for their patients. They want to change the spirit of their profession through conversation, and to keep their colleagues to re-examine their approach to work. 

The conference kicked off the previous eve­ning at a converted warehouse in West Philly now used as a local arts center. I dutifully made my nametag on cardboard repurposed from a Quaker oatmeal box and tied it around my neck with rainbow yarn:  “I’m here because…I’m writing an article about Rebellious Nursing!” I received my hot-pink conference brochure with the RN! logo—a nurse’s gloved hand clasp­ing a patient’s—emblazoned on the front.


Beer, vegan pizza, retro soda. Flannel, dirty Converse sneakers, thick-framed glasses. This felt close to home, not so distant from my own neighborhood. I’m no nurse: I’m squeamish about blood, and it’s been years since I took biology. But I am sympathetic to these self-proclaimed “rebellious nurses”—we are all frus­trated by the obvious inequities in American health care. Who gets care, and who doesn’t? How are the sick treated, both as patients and as people? Unlike me, these nurses can make these changes happen. They take a risk by speaking up, but it’s their patients’ health and well-being that are at risk if they don’t.


This conference is the brainchild of Sarah Lipkin, a student at Yale’s own School of Nurs­ing. After an undergraduate degree from Wes­leyan, a flirtation with the film industry, and a stint in Portland, Lipkin now claims the title of “rebellious nurse” proudly, but her path to 


nursing wasn’t always clear.
“It just took me a long time,” she laughs, explaining the journey that brought her—hot-pink bangs, conch-shell tattoo, and all—to New Haven. After college, Lipkin decided to become a doula, a nonmedical caregiver similar to a midwife without medical training. Lipkin also spent time working with survivors of domestic abuse and recently released prisoners, before arriving at Yale in the fall of 2011 to begin a three-year master’s of science in nursing. 

That February, she attended Yale’s leftist layering conference, “Rebellious Lawyering,” (or, affectionately, “RebLaw”), held annually at the law school. The conference brings lawyers together to discuss how they can use their ex­pertise to work on behalf of people who face discrimination. She started thinking about ways to bring RebLaw’s approach to law into the field of nursing. The questions brought up at RebLaw about economic inequality, struc­tural violence, and oppression seemed similar­ly applicable to nursing, but no one in the medi­cal field was talking about them. 


Throughout the conference, and over the following weeks, I talk to other nurses and students. They’ve worked in hospitals, clinics, schools, camps, hospices, classrooms, Planned Parenthoods, and outreach programs; they come from Baltimore, Philadelphia, Tennessee, Brooklyn, Seattle, Virginia, and New Haven. The stories accumulate, and a common thread runs through them all: nurses witness horrendous treatment but lack the resources to change the system. A patient shows up in the ER complaining of pain, but colleagues deny pain medication because he’s probably a junkie looking to take a “rest” and get high. An­other patient can’t speak English, but the staff doesn’t bother to call a translator. A fourteen-year-old girl gives birth as her mother screams at her and calls her a slut; a nursing student looks on and wonders what she can ethically do. Another teenager has a stillbirth; she’s black and living in the South and the hospital admin­isters a drug test, even though there’s no legal requirement to do so; because there are traces of crack in her system, she’s charged with mur­der. A secretary shreds disability forms, hop­ing to encourage self-advocacy in a patient. An older woman isn’t given pain medication, be­cause pain is just part of being old. Neither are some Hispanic or African-American patients, because “those women” are “too proud.” A pa­tient of color is referred to as a “thug.” Rude and judgmental comments are made about a larger patient’s weight. An obstetrician has a busy day—so she encourages a patient to have a C-section.


Too often marginalized or underestimated, nurses themselves become targets. A nurse is a little too assertive—so co-workers whisper that she’s a lesbian. Nurses are sexually harassed by doctors or patients. A doctor dismisses a nurse’s suggestions about best how to treat a patient. “Doctors make all the decisions,” complains Tino, a cardiac nurse from Tennessee, “but they’ll be in the room for a minute, while I’m in the room for twelve hours a day. I see different things.” If doctors treat cases and nurses treat people, and if nurses are powerless and doctors in control, ultimately, both the patient and the nurse suffer. 


Peggy Chinn, the conference’s keynote speaker and professor at the University of Connecticut’s nursing school, was a key figure behind the 1980s radical nursing movement known as Cassandra, which promoted femi­nism in the health care profession. She quickly became something of a patron saint to Lipkin, who was beginning to envision a twenty-first-century reimagining of radical nursing. Armed with Cassandra’s archives of mimeographed newsletters, Lipkin realized that Chinn and oth­ers in the movement had begun a conversation that she wanted to continue. Lipkin reached out on Facebook and Tumblr in early 2012, search­ing for other “rebellious” nurses. “As a student, I have felt isolated in my attempts to find forums for progressive conversation around the prac­tice of Nursing,” she wrote. 

It turned out that Lipkin wasn’t alone. By that fall, she and her cohort of online support­ers had made a lot of progress. “It’s kind of a miracle,” she reflects. “I don’t think this could have happened ten years ago.” By the follow­ing September, the group was ready to go: hun­dreds of nurses, students, and allies gathered in Penn’s Claire Fagin Hall for the first Rebellious Nursing! Conference. 

The conference’s goals were bold and broad: the manifesto on the very first page of the pink booklet declared that they were “envisioning justice and liberation for health seekers, health workers and communities,” and uniting “to find 


inspiration, awareness, solidarity, and practical ways to impact health equity and health disparities.”


The manifesto was moving, but it didn’t say enough. Lipkin told me that nurses were “on the front lines, with patients, every day.” What did that mean? It was time to take some vital signs.
“What was your earliest experience with oppression?”


I’m at a workshop called “Anti-oppression fundamentals training for health care workers.” Jenna Peters-Golden, an organizer for a Philadelphia-based activist collective called AORTA (“anti-oppression resource and training alliance”), asks us to discuss the question in pairs. I sit in on a conversation with two nurs­ing students, Amanda and Danie. Danie grew up moving between developing countries; her parents were aid workers, and their family was considered well-off just by virtue of having a house with four walls and a roof. Amanda grew up in Alabama, eating in restaurants where the customers were always white and the workers were always black. In school, she was shown the famous videos of children marching for civil rights and being crushed by fire hoses during Birmingham’s Children’s Crusade. She started crying and was sent home. “I never had a dialogue about inequality until I got to college,” she says. As they share stories, participants start to recognize similar inequalities in their work as nurses. Danie now interns at a local prison, and is conflicted about her work there. It’s her job to provide the best care she can to her patients, but she’s also part of a prison system she often finds unjust. “How can you support the inmates as patients while you’re working in this system of oppression?” she wonders.


After this activity, Peters-Golden poses an­other question: “Why did the Titanic sink?”


Answers rise from the audience. A lack of communication. Responding only to what was immediately visible. Overconfidence. Poor con­struction. Going too fast. Following the cap­tain’s orders. Waiting too long before radioing for help.


Peters-Golden explains the idea of the “ice­berg of oppression”—a theory that oppressive actions, visible on the surface, are enabled by systemic and institutional prejudices that lurk below. We’re here, she says, to “challenge the iceberg.”


But, I wonder, doesn’t the ship need to be steered? Where else is work—fast, careful work—more important than within the life-and-death world of a hospital? Isn’t there a case for patience, and working within the sys­tem? Then again, I don’t have to put on scrubs every day and go to work, witnessing injustice in a place meant for healing. In a workplace where decades of prejudice linger, but where minutes—even seconds—matter, the work still has to go on.


Almost every nurse can recall a moment that moved him or her to action. For Peggy Chinn, it was a death—not of a patient, but of the Equal Rights Amendment. In 1982, af­ter decades of attempts to ratify the ERA, the amendment’s final deadline arrived, and it failed, three states short of ratification. Chinn happened to be at an American Nurses Associa­tion convention in Washington shortly after the amendment failed, and noticed that the guest speaker for the maternal and child health sec­tion was the conservative senator Orrin Hatch. She and likeminded colleagues “decided that that was all we could stand. We had to do some­thing,” she tells me.


Chinn had discovered the essay “Cassan­dra,” written in 1860 by Florence Nightingale—a more radical figure than many think, she tells me, a character blurred by history’s lens. “I was talking about it constantly,” Chinn explains. She was particularly taken with one line: “Why have women passion, intellect, moral activity—these three—and not a place in society where one of the three can be exercised?” Even in the supposed post-women’s liberation era, this re­minder of earlier times showed Chinn and the other women how far they had to go. They de­cided to adopt the essay’s name for their collec­tive, which began in the early 1980s. Feminism became a powerful tool to reimagine the flaws in a field of work largely dominated by women, helping them connect general oppression of women to the way they were treated as nurses.


Yet Chinn stresses just how much vehement resistance there was to feminism within the nursing profession itself. “Nurses just resent­ed feminism, or they were afraid of it,” she re­calls. For its part, the feminist movement itself wasn’t much help, either. “They were trying to overcome the stereotype of the good wife, the submissive woman, obedient to the man. And 



**Title: The Rebellious Nurses of Yale**
**Author: Julia Calagiovanni**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
december 2013
37
they felt that nursing was just an extension of 
that male-created role.” Cassandra, an explic­
itly radical movement, valued nurses’ ability to 
nurture their patients while providing quality 
health care. Liberal feminists objected to this 
emphasis on traditionally feminine qualities.

Chinn seems to look back on that time 
with fondness, despite her frustration. It was a 
heady time, she says, when feminism felt new 
but was “starting to really blossom.” Earlier in 
her career, she had worked as a pediatric nurse 
at a hospital, but hated it. “It was like nurses 
didn’t have a brain and should just be a robot,” 
she explained. They were expected just to carry 
out the tasks they were given. She spent a few 
years in a physician’s office, which offered a 
better workplace, and then moved on to teach­
ing college- and graduate-level courses in nurs­
ing at the University of Buffalo, and then at the 
University of Connecticut. “I knew I wanted 
to teach differently,” she explained. Inspired 
by Paulo Freire’s Pedagogy of the Oppressed, 
she developed a teaching technique that saw 
education as a process of solving problems, not 
memorizing information. It meant asking ques­
tions, and not necessarily having the answers.

Almost all of the nurses I talked to seemed 
satisfied with the technical aspects of their 
nursing education—the skills and the science. 
But they can face some unlikely adversaries 
in their non-nursing peers. Madeleine Wilson, 
a senior undergraduate nursing major at Penn 
unaffiliated with the Rebellious Nursing move­
ment, describes her high-school self as a “very 
typical, straight-A, AP student that wanted 
to be a premed and have my elite life set out.” 
When her mother suggested the idea of nurs­
ing, she hated it. “No way someone like me who 
is top of the class is going to consider it,” she re­
members thinking. She ultimately decided on 
nursing after being won over by the opportuni­
ties and faculty at Penn. Now, nearing the end 
of her undergraduate nursing degree with a mi­
nor in health care management from Wharton, 
she has spent four years hearing that attitude 
reflected in her peers’ opinions on nursing. “I 
get a lot of shit about how nursing is easier—
‘why don’t you be a doctor?’” she explains.

Sometimes this tension plays out in institu­
tional dynamics. Lola Pellegrino, who graduat­
ed from the school of nursing last year, told me 
found herself feeling uncomfortable in some 
of her classes. Once, she tells me, jokingly, a 
class on psychiatric nursing was so hetero- and 
gender-normative that she “wanted to throw a 
Molotov cocktail at the Powerpoint” in one par­
ticular lecture. 

Lipkin tells me how the nursing school was 


--- Page 38 ---

38
the new journal
an early avenue for women to be part of Yale: 
it was founded in 1923 as the first autonomous 
school of nursing in the country, and all eight 
of its deans have been women. YSN is progres­
sive in many ways: it has a strong community 
of LGBT students, a respected midwifery pro­
gram, and an academic approach that recogniz­
es nursing as an important academic—as well 
as practical—field. 

The Yale School of Nursing is far removed 
from the rest of the university. The school’s 
move this October to Yale’s “West Campus” site 
in Orange, Connecticut—a twenty-minute drive 
from our bench on Cross Campus—allowed the 
school to expand and improve its facilities, but 
it also moved the school away from the rest of 
Yale’s medical community. The seven-mile dis­
tance between the nursing school and the med­
ical school seems to reflect stark differences 
in resource distribution. Commenting on the 
move, YSN nurse-midwife student Emily Mar­
tyn says she no longer feels like she is “in the 
middle of the medical community.” But while 
nurses undertake rigorous courses and provide 
important care, in the eyes of some, they will al­
ways be “just nurses.” 

Beyond anatomy and physiology, it’s clear 
that there are bigger lessons that need to be 
taught in nursing school. After all, there’s no 
“Racism, Sexism, Ageism, and Homophobia 
101,” but these problems are just as serious, 
many rebellious nurses might contend, as any 
medical emergency. Like illness itself, health 
disparities among minority or disadvantaged 
populations also bring suffering—just on a 
slower, and often more insidious, level. These 
societal problems are particularly dangerous in 
the life-or-death medical world. 

That brings them to the elephant in the 
room: money. Nurses stare huge economic ob­
stacles in the face on a daily basis. Health care 
is expensive, and people will often go without 
it if money’s tight. For patients on Medicaid or 
other forms of government-funded health in­
surance, reimbursement rates are so low that 
providers must see patients in rapid succes­
sion, which leads to lower-quality care. “You 
might not realize that something’s going on,” 
Martyn says. “You have to actually sit with a 
patient to hear what they have to say and give 
them the care they deserve.” For many provid­
ers and patients, taking that time is simply im­
possible. Obamacare, Pellegrino says, will “push 
us there…It’s a step in the right direction,” but 
change will likely be slow.

Even the division of labor between doctors 
and nurses reflects economic tensions: nurses, 
Chinn says, have the most power when they are 
“taking care of people who no one else wants 
to take care of”—that is, populations that don’t 
bring in money. For example, nurses have a lot 
of latitude when working on a Native American 
reservation, but in mainstream environments 
where they can compete with nurse-midwives 
and nurse-anesthesiologists, their authority is 
limited. And traditional avenues of advocacy 
might not be available, since most nurses aren’t 
unionized. The nation’s largest nursing union, 
Nurses United, will only accept nurses with 
certain credentials, excluding many nurses and 
medical professionals. 

Chinn is blunt: “Systems are set up by phy­
sicians or administrators who are out to make 
the most profit. As long as our health care sys­
tem is a profit-based system, this kind of thing 
is going to happen”—that is, quality of care will 
be affected by who can pay for it and how much 
doctors will make.

Emma Dorsey, a nursing student at Penn, 
tells me that she came to the conference be­
cause she believes that nursing is a radical 
profession and wanted to “connect with other 
radical nurses, learn from them, draw strength 
from them, and have some fun.” She writes 
that she gained “all of the above” as well a tat­
too. Her biggest unanswered questions: “What 
next?  Can we make a publication? Can we have 
another? More, please! More! How can we make 
more nurse-managed clinics and build a radical 
health option for the poor?”

For Dorsey and others, this is the state of 
living and working in the space between ques­
tions and the answers. What gets these nurses 
from shift to shift is their renewed sense of 
purpose: the idea that new conversations can 
take place in emergency rooms, in clinics, and 
across the profession. I had gone to find the 
revolution, and I’m still trying to make sense of 
what I saw.  But the work of building a healthier 
world might just start with rebellion.

Julia Calagiovanni is a junior in
Silliman College and a Managing 
Editor for the New Journal.


**Title: Course Evaluations**
**Author: TNJ Staff**
**Page number(s): 39**

39
endnote
As you write course evaluations for your fall 
classes or read them compulsively to pick your 
spring ones (and then throughout the semes­
ter to bask in what could have been), pick and 
choose from these categories of answers to: 
“How would you summarize this course for a 
fellow student? Would you recommend it to an­
other student? Why or why not?” 

These quotes are real. So is their pain and their 
ecstasy.   

Short & sweet:
Sure

Matter of fact: 
I would recommend [Ethnography of Ev­
eryday Political Life] for those interested in 
learning about what it’s like to be a politician, 
to be involved in the political world, and what it 
takes to be a politician. Also those interested in 
ethnography.

Overdramatic:
To say this was a bad class is an understate­
ment akin to “the ocean is wet.” Without a doubt 
it was the worst educational experience, if one 
can call it that, I have suffered since the sev­
enth grade 

Ass-kissing:
American Novel should be called Amy’s 
Book Club because it feels less like a class than 
an enjoyable commitment to becoming more 
cultured and well-read 

Openly hateful:
          you might as well google figure drawing and 
learn from that.

Warning: 
if you don’t like dancing in front of people, 
avoid it. He’ll make you dance, no matter where 
you hide.

Rambly:
This is the worst class I’ve taken at Yale…I 
wish its terribleness had revealed itself before 
the drop period ended...I hated every minute 
of the purgatory that was taking place in front 
of me…This is nothing you haven’t seen in a 
Malcolm Gladwell book…Worst of all, there’s 
no Internet in YUAG, so you have no choice but 
to sit and suffer without even the respite of 
Sporcle…He takes 15 minutes to start lecture 
every day, often giving information he already 
emailed to us. He’ll acknowledge that he sent 
this information in an email, AND THEN RE­
PEAT IT AGAIN WORD FOR WORD. He goes off 
on random tangents during class; I once timed 
it, and he spent 18 minutes discussing a prena­
tal class he took before his kid was born. Once, 
we wasted 40 minutes playing the Prisoners’ 
Dilemma; what Yale student HASN’T heard of 
the Prisoners’ Dilemma? How many times must 
we look at the covers of Neal Stephenson books 
just so you can make some stupid puns? …Over­
all, I’ll probably do well in this class. Heck, I’ll 
probably get an A. But was it worth it? Was the 
soul-crushing agony and slow torturous death 
of my passion worth it? Absolutely not. 

Befuddling:
It squeezes all the major western philo­
sophical ideas into my mind in one year and it 
really helped me to think better like a real man.

And the lingering historical grudge:
I would recommend [The Civil War & Re­
construction, 1845-77} to Yankees.
—Compiled by TNJ Staff
SIS, S.O.S.



**Title: YALE UNIVERSITY JUDAIC STUDIES–SPRING 2014 Course Offering**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
YALE UNIVERSITY


JUDAIC STUDIES–SPRING 2014 Course Offering

CLASSICAL PERIOD

JDST235g/RLST147g, Introduction to Judaism in the Ancient World. Steven Fraade. MW 11.35-12.50    
JDST 238g/ RLST114Prophecy in Context, Robert Wilson/Hindy Najman.  T 1.30-3.20 
JDST 392g/RLST405g, Mishnah Seminar: Tractate Rosh HaShanah. Steven Fraade. Th 9.25-11.15 
JDST414g/RLST425g, Talmudic Narratives in Context. Yishai Kiel. M 3.30-5.20 

MEDIEVAL AND EARLY MODERN PERIODS

JDST 275/PHIL213, The Philosophy of Maimonides. Gabriel Citron. TTh 2.30-3.45 
JDST265g/HIST 345g/MMES148/RLST202g, Jews in Muslim Lands from the Seventh to the Sixteenth Centuries. 
Ivan Marcus. TTh 11.35-12.50  


MODERN PERIOD

JDST 288 /HUMS271/ITAL360, Primo Levi and Holocaust Writing. Maurice Samuels. W 2.30-4.20    
JDST 293/RLST214/HIST248, Introduction to Modern Jewish Thought. Elli Stern. TTh 11.35-12.25, 1 HTBA 
JDST 330/RLST330/MMES350, Multiculturalism and Jewish Law in Israel. Yuval Sinai. MW 2.30-3.45 
JDST 334/HIST224J, Jewish Emancipation in the Modern Era. Michael Silber & Elli Stern. Th 3.30-5.20    

LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE

JDST 312/HUMS249, Hebrew Poetry in Muslim Spain. Peter Cole. M 1.30-3.20    
JDST 316/LITR348/HUMS427, The Practice of Literary Translation. Peter Cole. TTh 1.00-2.15    
JDST 318/LITR 282, Cultural Study of Israel. Hannan Hever. WF 1:30-2:20 
JDST319/HEBR162/MMES161, Israel: Ideology and Practice. Dina Roginsky  TTH 2:30-3:45   
JDST 323/NELC155/MMES160, State and Society in Israel. Dina Roginsky. TTh 11.35-12.50 
JDST 407/MMES156/HEBR161, Israeli Popular Music. Dina Roginsky. MW 11.35-12.50 
HEBR120g, Elementary Modern Hebrew. Shiri Goren. MTWTHF 10:30-11:20 & 11:35–12:25                  
HEBR140g, Intermediate Modern Hebrew. Ayala Dvoretzky. T TH 1–2:15 

GRADUATE ONLY COURSES

HIST 601/RLST776/JDST790, The Jews in Medieval Societies. Ivan Marcus. T 1.30-3.20  
JDST 690/CPLT905, Jewish and Arabic Literature in Israeli Space. Hannan Hever Th 3.30-5.20    
JDST 756/RLST700, Philo of Alexandria: Interpretive Context, Philosophical Affinities, and Reception   
Harold Attridge/Hindy Najman. W 3.30-5.20   
JDST 760 /RLST772, Rabbinics Research Seminar. Christine Hayes. T 1.30-3.20    
_____________________________________________________________ 
Program in Judaic Studies 
Yale University 
451 College St., Rm. 301 
New Haven, CT 06511 
Tel – (203)432-0843,  Fax – (203)432-4889 
judaicstudies.yale.edu 
Please note that information on courses, including meeting days and times, is subject to revision. Students should 
check the printed YCPS and especially the on-line course information for the fullest and most accurate information

