Publication date: 04/87
Volume 19, Issue 6

**Title: A Passion Preserved**
**Author: Hugh Kennedy**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Anyone who settles down to an afternoon of research in Sterling knows the maddening frustration of turning up six catalog cards in a row marked "Mudd Library." The thought of traveling half a mile up Prospect Street makes any books listed there seem a little less desirable. But a Yale library even further away than Mudd proves that traveling does have its rewards. Just over 40 miles outside of New Haven in Farmington, CT, the Lewis Walpole maintains a rich collection of eighteenth-century books, prints and artifacts. It suffers only from a lack of patronage; after decades of informal and eight years of formal operation, it has not become the center for British Studies it deserves to be.

Short of rolling the house and library all the way to College Street, the librarians at the Lewis Walpole have made every effort to entice senior essay writers and Ph.D. scholars from Yale and beyond. Needless to say, no one fights over appointments. In fact, staff members eagerly pick patrons up at the nearest railway station, and every researcher using the Walpole is assigned their own personal librarian. For long-term projects, there are lavish sleeping quarters available (which beats falling asleep in the stacks). And anyone who does arrive at the grounds is sure to feel a thrill of imperialist pleasure, for the Walpole is truly a cultural find.

Part library and museum of the English eighteenth century, part residence and a good part reliquary, the Lewis Walpole Library of Yale University demurely sits at 154 Main Street in Farmington, about an hour from New Haven. There are no weenie bins, circulation desks or water fountains, but there are halls doubling as portrait galleries, overstuffed leather chairs and tea with chocolate biscuits served promptly at 3:30 on weekdays. If J. Press and the Cooper-Hewitt Museum joined forces to become a library, they would create something like the Lewis Walpole.

Marie Devine, the librarian, greets dissertation writers and visitors alike at the entry to the Side Hall of the building. Something about her chatty enjoyment of an arrival reminds you of entering your own aunt's house- or perhaps Charlotte Bronte's. Flicking off a bedroom light switch in the Hall she chuckles warmly, "I swear there's a ghost in here. Someone's been turning on all the little lights." A visitor who has just stepped out of rural Northern Connecticut into a chilly 200-year-old Anglophile building may respond tentatively to such a welcome. But as Devine begins to outline the history of the Lewis Walpole to visitors, her enthusiasm about the place becomes infectious.


Because the Lewis Walpole Library served until very recently as a serious collector's home as well as a research center, visits properly begin with a tour. A good start might be an excursion through the minds of two men, because no one named Lewis Walpole ever existed. In fact, the library's title combines the names of the owner of the house, Wilmarth Sheldon "Lefty" Lewis, (1895-1979, Yale '18), and the great English social chronicler Horace Walpole, (1717-1797), whose life and letters became Lewis' passion. A look into the meticulous efforts with which Lewis followed his hero- he compiled a record of everything Walpole did every day for a 60-year period-gives the compound name Lewis Walpole new meaning.

In day-to-day life Wilmarth Lewis was known to everyone as "Lefty," but in other ways he began to blur with a man born 200 years before him. Horace Walpole, whose effigy appears on walls throughout the house, is best known as the writer who unleashed the first Gothic romance, The Castle of Otranto, on the world. As the son of Sir Robert Walpole, prime minister under George I and II, young Walpole used his Eton and Cambridge education not to pursue parliament or the military life but to pursue an early retirement from public life, writing and establishing his own printing press at his Twickenham villa, Strawberry Hill. He also developed friendships with contemporary socialites like Lady Louisa Stuart and the bluestocking Hannah More, and left behind over 7,000 letters from a lifetime of correspondence. His estate, now St. Mary's College at Strawberry Hill, still serves the academic world, but over two-thirds of the books and letters Walpole owned and wrote now reside in "Lefty" Lewis' home.

Lewis, like Walpole, came from a pampered background and actively pursued civic affairs throughout his life. After earning an undergraduate degree at the Thatcher School and a graduate degree from Yale, he went on to become a senior member of the Yale Corporation and a fellow of the American Philosophical Society, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the Royal Society of Literature. His central passion, however, lay elsewhere. Retiring to pursue the pleasures of inherited wealth at the ripe age of 26, Lewis discovered some lively Louisa Stuart notes in a volume of John Heneage Jesse's George Selwyn and his Contemporaries that he purchased in London. While tracking Stuart's name, Lewis found her favorably compared to an "inimitable gossip" named Horace Walpole. Very soon afterwards he discovered that Walpole references in eighteenth century letters were like capillaries leading back to a heart. Apparently, this man had either seen or heard about every social, medical, or political happening of the day and had described it to someone in intimate detail. Not long after this discovery, Lewis bought his first Horace Walpole letter.

Lewis' initial interest in Walpole's letters grew to an obsession that filled his days and emptied his coffers. He used his and his wife Annie Burr Auchincloss's considerable fortune to track down and buy any Walpole work, Strawberry Hill press book or fragment of Walpoliana he could get his hands on. What he couldn't buy he bartered for with the major libraries of the country. For over 50 years Lewis headed the committee that edited and published the monstrous 48-volume Yale Edition of Horace Walpole's Correspondence. His death prevented him from witnessing the publication of the last volumes in 1983, but by the late seventies he had amassed more information about Horace Walpole than one person has probably amassed about anyone. Right up to his death in 1979, Lewis encouraged scholars to visit and work with him. His house and its nine separate libraries, totalling 30,000 books and 37,000 prints, all relate to Walpole in the eighteenth century- or as Lewis and many other scholars have contended, Walpole as the eighteenth century. From the entrance hall lantern taken from Twickenham that hangs in the East Library to the precisely imitative arrangement of Walpole's own manuscripts and letters in the North Library, the Lewis Walpole appears as bent on its own brand of authentic restoration as Plymouth Plantation or a 1:1 scale map out of Borges' Labyrinths.

In fact, "Borges would have loved this place," Marie Devine laughs, standing below a print of Walpole's library that dictates one area of shelf order. Sometimes, Lewis attempted more than mere duplication. Near the end of the Long Hall, for example, an imposing black door is built into the wall. A bronze 11 is screwed into it at chest level. "Walpole had a residence at 11 Berkeley Square," Devine explains, drawing out a weathered photograph of London and pointing to a facade with a black door. "Mr. Lewis rescued it when the house was being torn down in the 30's."


She adds that in Lewis' later years, former librarian Catherine Jestin often wheedled him into dropping his own harsh notes to fellow colleagues and critics into the letter slot of the Walpole door. It seems logical that the same man who laid out Walpole's paintings, furniture and books just as Walpole might have wanted would drop his own letters through Walpole's former front door.

Lefty Lewis' print collection reveals that he developed some of Walpole's other tastes, too. Joan Sussler, Curator of Prints at the Lewis Walpole, works out of a large, recessed space that was until recently a squash court in Lewis' house. In her position she oversees the largest collection of Hogarth prints- some of Walpole's favorites- outside of England (over 700) and collections of major caricature artists of the day such as Henry Bunbury and Thomas Patch. The system of indexing by date, title, artist, engraver, publisher and subject matter developed by Lewis' wife makes cross-referencing extremely smooth. "For instance," she says, indicating a print of an