Publication date: April 12, 1970
Volume: three
Issue number: ten

**MASTHEAD**
- Editors: Herman Hong, Paul Goldberger
- Managing Editor: Dan Mcintyre
- Executive Editor: Stephen Thomas
- Business Manager: William Palmer
- Art Director: Cathy Johnson
- Copy Editors: Richard Caples, Stuart Kla wans
- Production Manager: Jack Friedman
- Advertising Manager: Charles H.S. Chapman
- Assistant Editors: Bryan Di Salvatore, George Kannar, Edward Landler, David Meter, Sam Miller
- Circulation Managers: John Callaway, Brant Switzler
- Contributing Editors: Susan Braudy, David Freeman, Nicki Kalish, Mopsy Strange Kennedy, Lawrence Lasker, Jonathan Lear, Michael Lerner, Leo Ribuffo, Walter Wagoner
- Staff: Richard Conniff, W. Curtis Francis John Friedman, Patrick Lydon Gus Oli;er Robert Parsons, Manuel Perez


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- Comment: Tranquility across the Atlantic and transformations in New Haven. - 
- Letter from Cambridge - 
- All this and P.R. too! - Dick Corey
- Review of Bergin's Dante - Jules Noel Wright
- Confessions of a film freak - David Freeman
- Long Blue line - Rod Green


**Title: Letter from Cambridge**
**Author:** 
**Page number(s): 2, 15**

The slope of the temperature curve is so much gentler 
here that the cultivated grasses stay green all year round. 
Beds of yellow winter aconite are blooming now, and 
down by the Cam, you can see the sap running orange 
already in the willows. Out in back of our flat, where the 
Churchill College rugby field stretches for almost a solid, 
very bright green mile, quantities of birds gather every 
morning. Sometimes, coming out the back door, I see 
them all turned and gazing in the same direction: I 
look that way too, curious to see what's going on. But 
nothing is, at least nothing that I can see, and my cross· 
ing the field sweeps them into the air, squadron after 
squadron of rooks, crows, fieldfares, thrushes, black· 
birds, sparrows .... 


The slow peace of this place is such that the news 
from home comes to us like bulletins from a lunatic 
asylum. America, at least seen from this distance, seems 
a society in the throes of a nervous breakdown. The 
dominant feelings that inform and energize the move-
ments sweeping our country - i.e., rage, outrage- are 
lacking here. Most people aren't very angry. There is a 
natural orderliness in the English temperament, a cer-
tain calmness that these people must breathe in with 
their oxygen. You can even see it in the faces, in the way 
people move: there isn't much tension, voices are low, 
little encounters are full of easy courtesy. 


Even the quarrelling styles are different: a few days 
after we'd arrived in Cambridge, I was in a small grocery 
store when a man came in, looking somewhat agitated. 
He went up to the shopowner and said in a quietly tense 
tone: "My wife was in here a few moments ago. I believe 
you've insulted her." 


I stepped out of the way, started putting the bread 
I'd bought into my overloaded shopping bag. The shop-
keeper flushed, replied in a voice tinged with a German 
accent: "The little boy, your little boy, he was picking 
everything up and moving it around. I told her she 
oughtn't to let him behave like that. After all, this is a 
civilised country." 


"Are you implying," inquired the man witheringly, 
.. that my wife is not a civilised woman?" 


At this point, I slipped out of the shop. But I had, 
as I later realized, overheard what in England is a wild 
argument. Words, like acts, are taken very seriously 
here; short of violence, people are listened to. This seems 
to me to be a critical difference between ours and the 
British society, for just as in certain families no one will 
listen unless you raise your voice to a scream, so in 
America, short of violence of speech or action, people 
feel (rightly in some cases, wrongly in others) that they 
won't obtain a hearing. 


One curiosity of living in Cambridge, I find, is that it's 
much easier to talk to the students. A faculty wife is un-
der no pressure either to play Uncle Tom to youth, 
sound groovy, swing along with the destruction-and-
then-a-great-new-society-will-follow; or, on the other 
hand, to be the big bad authoritarian mommy. They'll 
just talk to you; it's nice. Perhaps it's the system of 
tutorials which makes them accustomed to communi-
cating with people older than themselves. Or it might 
be that there is truly much less social segregation: we 
meet and see many more students at parties than we did 
in New Haven, even though my husband, as an Overseas 
Fellow, hasn't any students of his own this year. 


The town itself isn't only a university town; it's a 
market town. Produce from the surrounding shire comes 
in every day, and the fields on every side are full of cab-
bages and brussels sprouts and long rank-smelling crops 
of cauliflower. The market itself is in the very center of 
Cambridge, flanked on two sides by shops, on one side 
by the town Guildhall, on the last by the stone spires 
of Great Saint Mary's Church. Cycling down to the 
center to buy food, I find myself dallying among the 
stalls, looking at the local pottery, and the cheap trin-
kets from India, the sheepskin rugs, potted plants, exoti-
cally colored tulips. 


The students crowding by are wild and wonderful 
looking, though perhaps not so wonderful as some of the 
kids one sees in London. In London there's nothing 
quite like taking the escalator down into the Under-
ground, seeing on one side the enormous ads: half· 
naked girls drooping out of bikinis: "COME AND SEE 
ME ... (visit Spain)," THERE'S NOTHING I LIKE 
BETTER NEXT TO MY SKIN THAN .. (and it's a 
kind of underwear). And then, many ads for restoring 
men's hair, with coy peeks at bald patches and fascinat-
ing·innuendoes about re-sewing(?). And, at the bottom, 
a really huge advertisement, two people's asses in the 
same red underpants and blaring declaration: UNISEX. 


Meanwhile, ascending, pouring off the other side of 
the escalator are the Russian princesses in their fur-
trimmed maxi coats, the pseudo Naval officers, the 
cloaked Counts, Pirates ... It's the acting out of a neo-
Romantic fantasy, and it has its own dreamy beauty. 


There's a great deal less pot around Cambridge than 
around any American campus I can think of; and cer-
tainly, pot smoking hasn't around it the religious aura 
that its American devotees often accord it. (I mean it 
doesn't represent Truth, Beauty, A Way of Life). On 
the other hand I have seen it around at faculty parties 
now and then, which I never did in New Haven. A distin-
guished naturalist told me that he'd taken LSD around 
seven times; he was a friend of Aldous Huxley's, he has-
tened to assure me, not one of these scruffy newcomers 
to the scene. His wife, a beautiful Persian woman, said 
she wouldn't dream, ever, of taking alcohol; that she 
came from a hash culture and thought people who drank 
alcohol had a funny smell about them (I stepped back 
quickly). 


Englishmen seem to tolerate a lot of eccentricities 
in one another, despite the very present and living pow-
er of tradition. I suppose this toleration is a kind of 
pressure valve: they don't need to turn the coin of con-
formity to its opposite, Dionysian side. The national 
tendency is to take things with a twinkle: they've been 
making fun recently, on the telly, of the Women's Liber-
ation Movement in America. A tall, pretty blonde has 
been hired to go around pinching men's behinds as a dem-
onstration of women's right to 'do so. Her activities, 
which are televised, are hilarious: those British men, 
turning, startled, to see who has assaulted them. Then 
the girl asking how they feel about women's right 
to pinch men on the behind? .. 1 don't know; I haven't 
given it any thought," said one distinguished looking 
man, caught on the stairs of Parliament. He thought a 
moment, then added: "Actually, I do think it's rather 
nice." Then turned, saw the camera, and realized 
he'd been speaking to the nation. 


The news on the telly comes through in a way that is 
strangely muffled. I suppose that we are actually ac-
customed to our newsmen making high drama out of 
every incident; watching the news at home is a kind of 
shock treatment. Although it's true that here there is 
little in the way of local violence, the news from abroad 
still is delivered with no expression, no emotion, vir-
tually no facial movement. There is so much reserve: 
I mentioned this to a television producer whom we met 
in London. "Oh we say things in quieter ways," was his 
reply. And then he asked me, hadn't I noticed the way 
such-and-such a newscaster always raised one eyebrow 
when he reported on the Royal Family? 


I hadn't noticed. 


Before we came over, George Steiner, the literary 
critic, who is one of the Fellows of Churchill College 
(Churchill, where we live, is sister college to Morse at 
Yale), warned us that England was really a foreign 
country. I didn't take this as a serious warning; in fact, 
it is so. While we share a common language, our modes 
of understanding are profoundly different. One's ex-
pectations of certain responses are often bewilderingly 
unfulfilled; conversations veer off in strange ways; the 
underlying assumptions are different. Sometimes we 
come home from an English gathering as exhausted as 
continued on page 15


**Title: All this and P.R. too!**
**Author: Dick Corey**
**Page number(s): 3**

Dick Corey, a second year graduate stu-
dent, was concerned about the Co-op 
much before he was chosen by the 
Graduate Senate to represent them on 
the Co-op's Board of Directors. From 
his year of experience, often frustrating, 
occasionally hopeful, he has culled 
these details in an attempt to explain 
the Co-op, its organization, and why it is 
what it is. Though extremely reluctant 
to write this article he felt it to be one 
of the few ways to gain notice for the 
suggestions he has to make for a better 
Co-op. 


It's hard to imagine anyone getting 
worked up over the price of deodorants 
at Malley's or the unavailability of some 
book at Whitlock's. But at the Co-op 
when you are made to wait two months 
to get some needed book, you feel a 
right to get angry. The Co-op is, well, a 
co-operative. 


But it isn't. In a 1965 revision of its 
articles of incorporation, passed by the 
Connecticut legislature without any hoop-
la, the Co-op became a non-stock cor-
poration, wholly controlled by its twenty-
five directors. The articles were changed 
specifically to exclude membership voting 
rights, and a revision of the by-laws made 
in the same year states that "members 
shall not be entitled to vote on any mat-
ter and this corporation shall be operated 
under the management of its board of di-
rectors which shall be self-perpetuating." 


The rather hushed action was designed 
to make impossible any charge that the 
Board of Directors had been acting il-
legally in naming new directors. For if 
members had a right to vote for directors 
(as there is reason to believe they had 
prior to 1965) then many previous Boards 
may have been elected illegally. The 
Board may also have acted illegally by 
failing to have a quorum at various times. 
Some nifty work in Hartford, however, 
has spared subsequent Boards of any 
nagging suspicion that things aren't 
being done quite right. It also nicely 
eliminates the possibility that a group of 
activated students could directly influence 
Co-op policy. The Board rests assured. 


The present Board is composed of 
eight faculty directors, eight students, 
eight alumni, and Charles L Willoughby, 
President and General Manager. The 
faculty (of eight, seven are or recently 
have been Yale administrators) and the 
alumni are selected by the Nominating 
Committee, in which Mr. Willoughby 
takes an active part though he is not 
technically a member. This group searches 
for congenial replacements for retiring 
members, with very few suggestions 
sought from the alumni and faculty to 
be represented. The six undergraduate 
directors are elected at the end of their 
freshman year by their class. They serve 
three years. The Law School has in the 
past chosen a director and the Graduate 
Senate chose one this year. 


The selection of at least graduate and 
professional student directors will un-
doubtedly be modified later this year. 
The Executive Committee recently re-
commended a change, to be ratified by 
the full Board, in the proportion and 
number of student directors. The pro-
posal would increase the number of stu-
dent directors to twelve and would in-
clude the principle of parity between the 
undergraduate and the graduate and pro-
fessional students. 


But in practice, the real power and in-
fluence in the store is centered in the 
Executive Committee. It is responsible 
for determining the patronage refund, 
fixing salaries, and operating the store 
between meetings of the full Board. It 
presently consists of eleven members, in-
cluding Mr. Willoughby and the two cus-
tomary seniors. As all Co-op meetings 
include dining at Mory's afterwards, the 
Executive Committee has pleasant times 
and common experience to bind it. 


In addition, the members of the Ex-
ecutive Committee are similar in tem-
perament, age, and outlook, similarities 
unlikely to be tempered by the infre-
quent interaction with the students on 
the Board. 


The store's management centers in 
Mr. Willoughby. His style is a dominating 
and controlling one. As the only source 
of information and analysis of the Co-
op's operations, he often makes his will 
Co-op policy, properly ratified by the 
various boards. Another result of his 
dominance is that the movement of policy 
is downward; hardly ever has policy re-
sulted from the few suggestions made 
by the student directors. 


The management group comes off as 
tight-lipped, set, and uninnovative. When 
considered together with Mr. Willoughby, 
the management's primary character-
istics are an unrelenting secretiveness, a 
lack of candor, a startling capacity for 
defensiveness, and, above all, loyalty to 
the present management. The secrecy 
in the store is not limited to information 




**The Yale Co-op: A Case Study in Mismanagement**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
4/The New Journal/ April 12, 1970 
which might hurt its competitiveness. 
For example, it took student directors 
a month and a half and a decision of the 
Executive Committee to gain access to 
the salary ranges (but not the exact 
salary) of the executive staff, although 
this information could probably be 
gained through a phone call or visit to 
the Secretary of State. 

Once, plans having come to my at-
tention that detailed a major expansion 
for the book department, I asked Mr. 
Willoughby to elaborate on them. He 
looked surprised and said he had no 
knowledge of any such plans. But with-
in a short time a dossier including the 
plans and considerations that made their 
implementation impossible was presented 
to the Student Board. Nor is this the only 
time Mr. Willoughby has found it con-
venient to deny facts to the Student 
Board. 

Beyond this, there has been no great 
impulse by the board of directors itself 
to inform the Co-op's membership about 
operations or significant structural 
changes. 

Mr. Willoughby's self view is mis-
sionary. His management does only good. 
In reading his answers to suggestions and 
complaints that the Co-op has recently 
begun posting (after months of prodding 
by the student directors) you feel the 
Co-op is incapable of mistakes because 
Mr. Willoughby can explain them all into 
oblivion. He is closed to criticism and 
anathematizes any conflicting viewpoint. 

Once he went to the trouble of Xeroxing 
a newsletter which suggested that the 
Co-op's book department was in bad 
shape and which supported my petition 
for structural changes. He sent it to all 
the student directors with a cover note 
that charged it was "a reflection on the 
intelligence and integrity of the Board of 
Directors." 

He abhors publicity. At my second 
meeting with him he told me, "Well, I 
hope you're not going to talk with the 
newspapers .... You know how they can 
distort things and cause trouble." 

In the Fall of 1965 the News dis-
covered that the Co-op was using rather 
extreme tactics in getting Yale students 
to sign confessions after they had been 
apprehended as suspected shoplifters. 
According to the News reporter who 
discovered the practice, suspected stu-
dents "were taken to the Co-op basement 
and were told that the Executive Com-
mittee was already acting in their case ... 
that they had better sign." The News 
was amazed and chagrinned and went to 
Willoughby. The outcome, as some 
former Newsmen have reported, is that 
the News agreed to kill any story and the 
Co-op to kill the practice. But publicity, 
which can make things so distorted, was 
avoided. 

The news released is often more ar-
cane than informative. Any student dur-
ing his tenure can count on being sup-
plied with reprints of clippings on shop-
lifting. A large share of the very few ref-
erences to the Co-op in the News refer 
to shoplifting. I 965-66 was typical. 
'"The figure is startling,' said Mr. Wil-
loughby, 'but he would give no statistics·· 
(September 21, 1965). Again, "Although 
refusing to give figures, he did indicate 
that there was a noticeable rise in theft 
this year" (March 11, 1966). 

The basic problem with Mr. Willough-
by's zeal is that it is tainted by his views 
of students and of the store's goals. He 
has an unfortunate tendency to stereo-
type any student who wants reform as a 
radical; then he proceeds to ignore the 
substance of what they want. His Yale 
man tends to wear Gant shirts jlnd Deans-
gate suits, snack on Poppycock, and ask 
Santa Claus for Head skis. His coeds, on 
the other hand, are John-Meyer-of-Nor-
walk girls who drool over Dansk pretties. 
This view, which is shared by most alum-
ni and faculty directors, is reinforced by 
his contacts with students, for the stu-
dent directors have traditionally been 
jocks or other BMOC's. Willoughby is a 
trustee at Saint Anthony Hall and eats at 
Mory's. These patterns help fum his mind 
about the average Yale man. It's no won-
der Mr. Willoughby thinks the Co-op 
serves the university community. 

In addition to his propensity to see 
every student as a single type, his con-
cept of what the Co-op should be like is 
further afflicted by a rather disturbingly 
unclear notion of who shops there. In 
a December meeting of the Student 
Board Mr. Willougl1by expressed his 
conviction that students spent less 
at the Co-op than faculty and alumni 
members and that graduate and pro-
fessional students spent less than under-
graduates - both misconceptions. 

As with his rather limited definition 
of the community he serves, Mr. Wil-
loughby's maneuverability is limited by 
his insistence that the Co-op is to 
be treated as any other business. 

Consequently, he wants it to be suc-
cessful, which gives rise to his constant 
concern over profitability, a concern 
that causes him to lose sight of the 
Co-op's role as a community service 
- as a real cooperative. The result is 
that many departments exist in the 
Co-op because they allegedly return 
high profits. But these departments 
cramp and confine others, like the 
book department, which are less prof-
itable, but more important to a 
university community. 

To Willoughby the mark of business 
success is the maintenance of the 
patronage refund at a high level. But 
in order to maintain it profits must be 
high and, understandably, prices must 
be high. Mr. Willoughby's counter is 
that the Co-op vigilantly insures 
"competitive prices." But it is inter-
esting to note that the basis of compar-
ison is "Macy's and other department 
stores,'' to quote Willoughby. Yet 
other competitors, such as discount 
stores, exist. In only one Co-op de-
partment, the Health and Beauty aids 
section, has the basis of comparison 
(recently) been shifted from Macy's 
to cut-rate drug stores. But the rest of 
the departments retain the list prices 
which simply aren't the lowest possible. 

The more nefarious method of main-
taining a high PR is by confiscating 
refunds due to late-paying customers. 
This boosts the PR rate by two and one 
half per cent. In addition a credit charge 
is added after a bill becomes thirty 
days late. In contrast, at the Harvard 
Co-op, no member loses his patrona~e 
refund. He simply pays the credit 
charge on overdue bilJs. 

But Mr. Willoughby's attitude is 
that high PR shall prevail. Thus here-
fuses to consider reasonable alterna-
tives such as cutting prices to give 
immediate discounts while retaining 
some profits for captial needs. 

But how is Mr. Willoughby able to 
maintain such tight control? Don't 
the student directors do anything? 
Traditionally the students, whose 
gleaming proftles grace the Co-op's 
walls, have been a "pretty dead group" 
according to one director. The reason 
is not that the student directors don't 
want to be active, at least initially, but 


--- Page 5 ---

that the thrust of their socialization 
is toward complacency. The under-
graduate directors are elected during 
their freshman year and serve until they 
graduate. Since they are given little to 
do, their interest and their activism 
quickly wither. In addition, they carry 
the burden of youth, a burden which has 
nothing to do with their ability to 
function effectively or productively 
but instead affects their perception of 
that ability. The common belief presses-
on them that the adult directors must 
be more able and more knowledgeable 
because they are adults. Most adult 
directors simply do not think of 
them as decision-makers in the organi-
zation. The cognition that nothing 
is expected of them, together with 
the lack of anything significant to do, 
and the impulse to yield to ttie authority 
of age, make the student directors a 
generally lifeless body. 

In addition, Mr. Willoughby tightly 
controls the monthly meetings. He 
establishes the agenda, invites the 
guests, and presides. Typically, after 
the minutes are read, a financial report 
will be given by a member of the 
staff. Next there are reports from the 
book and advertising departments, an 
operations report and student inquir-
ies. Most student inquiries concern 
fuewood and deodorants; those that 
involve more substantial issues almost 
always are explained away by Mr. 
Willoughby with a statement of "Co-
op Policy." The directors offer some 
questions, often minor. Once, twenty-
five minutes was given over to a dis-
cussion of whether or not the Co-op 
should stock Marvel comic books. 

The function of the agenda and of 
member inquiries is to create the illusion 
of having accomplished something as 
weU a~ to fill up time. 

This year, however, the Student 
Board has begun to assert a good deal 
of independence and initiative. The 
meetings have broken away from Mr. 
Willoughby's control, and significant 
issues are being discussed without his 
approval. This has prompted several 
students to comment, ''At least the 
meetings are not dull anymore." 

But whether the Board will continue 
in this unusual vein, and in opposition 
to the Executive Committee and Mr. 
Willoughby on some issues, is problem-
atical (given the "advisory" role 
that Mr. Willoughby and the Executive 
Committee has assigned them). 

The point where the Co-op breaks down 
beyond belief is in the book depart-
ment. It is not efficient in getting 
texts {though this, of course, is most 
often a professor's or publisher's 
fault) or in keeping current a good 
supply of books needed for scholarly 
endeavor {though if you want to go into 
gardening or Agatha Christie, the 
Co-op can help you there). Graduate 
students strongly registered their 
dissatisfaction in the recent Co-op 
questionnaire. A history professor spent 
fifteen minutes of class time recently 
agonizing over his difficulties in getting 
a book he needed. "But at Harvard," he 
ended, "at Harvard they have all those 
wonderful books, anything you could 
want." 

The Co-op's Book Committee, assist-
ed by faculty consultants and, since 
February, graduate consultants, is 
supposed to make sure that the book de-
partment is functioning weU. The 
faculty consultant program was estab-
lished in 1961 as an attempt to keep the 
basic stock list up to date. There have 
been and are several professors who give 
generously of their time, but more whose 
contributions are minimal. 

At the fust meeting of the Book Com-
mittee last November, one professor in 
the social sciences expressed his view 
of his role: he selected good, scholarly 
works that he and his colleagues thought 
valuable and he specifically excluded 
popularized works and scholarly efforts 
in areas that did not interest him. An-
other professor, again in the social sci-
ences, thought that "graduate students 
do not buy books" and that the Co-op 
should merely provide books of interest 
to the faculty. Another phenomenon of 
the faculty consultants is an almost 
proprietary concern expressed by a few 
for the shelves in "their" departments. 

The program, after nine years, hasn't 
been successful. The book department 
manager, Mr. G. Roysce Smith, and I 
talked about the problem, and I agreed 
to recruit graduate students to supple-
ment the faculty consultants. in the de-
partments which had them, and to serve 
their function in those departments which 
did not. On starting to contact the 
various Graduate Senate members and 
departmental clubs, I found that in 
several departments such as political 
science, economics, and Spanish, stu-
dents and student groups were very con-
cerned about the books in their re-
spective fields and were about to send 
representatives to the Co-op to do some-
thing about it. 

Thus, while initially hesitant about 
the prospects of recruiting graduate stu-
dents to work for the two dollars an 
hour that Mr. Willoughby was willing to 
pay I found that many students would 
have been willing to take on the respon-
sibility of reviewing the Co-op's book 
selection voluntarily. 

Different consultants give various ac-
counts of what they were asked to do. 
But it is clear from even Mr. Smith's 
description of their role that in addition 
to updating the neglected stock lists in 
their areas, they were at least initially 
supposed to perform the duties of 
stock clerks. In essence, the recruitment 
of graduate consultants was as much an 
attempt to recruit more labor as an at-
tempt to improve the Co-op's book 
selection. 

But even if the graduates are as success-
ful as they can be, many other problems 
must be solved before the book depart-
ment can operate as it should. Ultimate-
ly, the Co-op must find some way besides 
cheap, casual labor on the part of grad-
uate students to maintain a fust-rate 
book store. 

There is definitely a personnel prob-
lem. The department, which has a high 
turn-over rate, must accept a great deal 
of blame for the failure to revise basic 
stock lists in the past, to recruit and 
adequately train personnel, or to seek 
out specialists who would make sure 
that the Co-op's book selection was 
adequate. 

There are administrative problems, 
aggravated this year by a large increase 
in course changes and a greater popular-
ity of paperbacks. One of the results is 
an often unnecessary delay in reorder-
ing books - clerks have in the past 
waited for weeks to send in an order. 

But the basic problem is one of 
space. Unless more space is allocated to 
the book department, every other effort 
to make it adequate is bound to fail . 
There is simply not enough room for 
books, and if the graduate consultants 
order many new titles the problem can 
only increase. Already one consultant 
reports that "most of the books that 
have come in for one section have al-
ready been sold off the bench in the 
aisle." Others describe personnel as 
hesitant to order new titles until the 
space problem has been solved. (Only 
one consultant has said he has adequate 
space to revise the stock list for his de-
partment.) 

But the tight, cramped, poorly ar-
ranged shelves, the tiny storage area and 
the limited selections are going to re-
main until Mr. Willoughby giyes up his 
position that the Co-op must continue 
to stock Nine Aags cologne and Mont 
Blanc fountain pens as well as the Loeb 
Classical Library. While Mr. Willough-
by feels such things are a necessary serv-
ice to the Co-op's clientele, the fact is 
that they're available all over New Haven 
and don't require a trip to New York, 
as finding a desired book often does. And 
the university store, it seems, should try 
harder to provide books than cologne 
and posh fountain pens. 

In talking with Mr. Willoughby last 
November every suggestion I had about 
the present selection of goods was 
countered by the objection that the 
Co-op's current merchandise selection was 
necessary to serve the entire community; 
and that it would be uneconomical to 
increase the book department. I asked 
for data on the costs in various depart-
ments and was referred to the annual 
. report. Then, I asked for a breakdown 
of costs and profits per department, 
which is not available in the reports. 
Jdr. Willoughby asked what I was 
specifically interested in, and I told 
him then, and on several other occasions, 
that I was interested in seeing how 
feasible it would be to replace some of 
the staid and non-student oriented goods 
with books. I still have not received 
such data. Who runs the Co-op and the 
way in which they run it is of great 
significance to many at Yale. The issue is 
whether the present structure and organ· 
ization can lead to a representative 
governance and responsive management. 

Considering the present situation 
the following steps seem advisable: 
1.) Students and other directors should 
become involved as planners in all de-
cision-making at the Co-op. It is essential 
that the management and the rest of the 
Board take the students and the job of 
director seriously. 
2.) Directors should be elected yearly by 
ballot, provision should be made for 
membership referendum on important 
issues, and the Co-op should hold an 
annual meeting of members. 
3.) Meetings should be announced, 
and agendas and accounts of actions taken 
should be made available, the press 
should be invited to meetings. 
4.) The general manager should no longer 
preside at Board meetings. Above all, 
the existing ethic that keeps organization-
al loyalty paramount must be replac.e.d 
with an orientation towards serving and 
representing members. The structure of 
the Board should not isolate students 
or other directors. 
5.) The Co-op should bring in outside 
consultants to evaluate all aspects of its 
management and policy. The recent 
questionnaire is a beginning, at least 
in assessing wants. A restructuring of 
operations can only be based upon valid 
information about present operations 
and member preferences. 

The reconsideration of existing 
policy should acknowledge the obvious, 
something the present management has 
not been able to do. As Milton Brown, 
President of the Harvard Co-op, said 
during last year's restructuring of that 
institution, "Students are just not buy-
ing suits and hats anymore." 


**Title: No superlative need apply**
**Author: Jules Noel Wright**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
No superlative need apply 
by Jules Noel Wright 
Jules Noel Wright is a lecturer in Italilln 
at Yale and Accademico Associato della 
0 'I 
Pontificia Accademia Tiberina. 
Megon biblion megon kakon: "A big 
book is a big bag" is a pretty good rule 
of thumb. Like all rules, however, it is 
susceptible to exceptions, one of the 
most notable being the Grossman edition 
of the Divine Comedy. Dante has found 
in Bergin and Baskin what Shakespeare 
did in Verdi and Boito. The presentation 
is a masterpiece. 

To review the Divine Comedy would 
at this point be rather superfluous. It 
seems to have stood the test of years 
pretty well; its medieval impostation 
notwithstanding, it has a continuingly 
incisive universality. 

Whatever else it is, the Divine Comedy 
is a personal experience: the present 
edition is one as well. It is obviously 
the fruition of a labor of love, and, 
like all such endeavors, must be viewed 
in its entirety. The translation and the 
illustrations are as integral a part of 
each other as can be imagined in a col-
laboration. One is reminded by juxta-
position of Fellini Satyricon, which, 
like the Bergin-Baskin Dante, is the re-
flection of the individual perception of 
a classic. 

This edition is the culmination of 
a life-long study of Dante by Mr. Bergin. 
Finis coronat opus. There are, of course, 
those who would quibble with the ren-
dering of certain lines, as, for example, the 
inscription over the gates of Hell: 
Through me ye enter in the town of woe, 
Through me ye pass into eternal sorrow, 
Through me ye join the nation of the lost. 
Justice my lofty architect did move 
To my creation. Mighty Power Divine 
Supremest Wisdom, and Primeval Love 
Established me. Before me there were 
none 
Save timeless things, and timeless I shall 
stand; 
Bid hope farewell, aU ye who enter here. 

These are certainly the most famous 
lines in the poem, and most people are 
accustomed to Longfellow's rendition 
of the verb in the last verse as "abandon., 
But "bid farewell" is in fact more in 
keeping with the original "lasciate." 

This may seem to be a trifling point, 
but it illustrates the basic quality of 
the translation, for which the word could 
be no-nonsense. The choice of blank 
verse as the medium is an optimal mid-
dle way: it avoids the artificiality in-
herent in attempting to reproduce terza 
rima in English, while preserving a 
poetic quality and discipline lacking in 
the prose and free verse translations. 

The other feature of the edition is 
that it does not make waves. Indicative 
is the note to Inferno I, 29 as "baffling." 
Mr. Bergin makes no attempt to solve 
the major riddles of the work, like who 
is the "veltro tra feltro e feltro. " He 
is content to present the enigmas clearly 
but as they are: he bears the view of the 
dispassionate scholar rather than that of 
the zealot. Where the original is hermetic, 
so is the translation. Conclusions are left 
to the reader, rather than being solved 
by the translator as deus cum aut sine 
mach ina. 

In considering the translation as a 
whole one can look in vain for the spec-
tacular passages, but Mr. Bergin's crafts-
manship is on another, higher level. He 
is, as it were, the Ciardi of translation. 
Nowhere is this better illustrated than in 
his version of Vergil's parting words to 
Dante the pilgrim. 
The temporal and the eternal ftre 
you've seen, my son, and have come to a 
place 
where I can see no further by myself. 
With art and reason I have brought you 
here; 
hence forward take your pleasure as 
your guide. 
Out of the steep and narrow ways you've 
won; 
see there the sun that shines upon your 
brow, 
mark the fresh grass, the flowers and the 
shrubs 
which here the soil produces of itself, 
So sit or go amongst them as you will 
until in happiness the fair eyes come 
you with their weeping dispatched me 
to you; 
await no more my gesture or my word; 
your will is free and upright, full of 
health; 
it would be wrong to act not as it bids; 
mitre and crown I give you o'er yourself. 

Complement to the text are the illustra-
tions of Leonard Baskin, extraorrJinary 
through their sheer strength. These are 
no maudlin or mawkish sentimentalities. 
They function through the edition much 
as the Leitmotif in a Wagnerian opera. 
This is particularly evident in the recur-
ring illustrations of Dante's animal 
imagery - the leopard, the she-wolf, 
the eagle. Here more than anywhere else 
is one reminded of the Fellini Satyricon. 
The material selected for illustration is 
the nexus of each canto, although not 
necessarily the most pictorial of the 
poem's offerings. They are stark. This 
is not, however, a fault, but an almost 
tactile reproduction of the Dantesque 
Weltanschauung. Inferno is peopled 
with fabulous beasts, monsters, and de-
praved souls whose humanity is under-
lined by the very portrayal of their des-
perateness. Purgatory is similarly illus-
trated but with that implied time of 
hope inherent in the Commedia. The 
emphasis in the Paradiso is on the verbal 
imagery: these are no Sunday School 
textbook pictures but the medieval 
company of the blessed in a modern 
context. The illustrations provide 
dramatic and visual proof that indeed 
the work is, as Shelley put it, a bridge 
between the ages. 

Some years ago, when studying the 
Divine Comedy with Mr. Bergin, one was 
struck with the frequency of the com-
ment .. Che bello" as a critical remark. 
Its simplicity is telling. What else, in 
fact, is one going to say? One could ex-
patiate in the beauty of the format, on 
the quality of the book, on the readability 
of the translation, on the strength of 
the illustrations, on the sheer weigltt of 
the three volumes. 

One could discuss the synechdochial 
relevance of Dante to modem times. 
One could compare editions from Bot-
ticelli and Boccaccio to Ciardi and Dore. 
But when all is said and done, no com-
ment more fitting could be made than 
"Che bello." No superlative is needed 
because the edition is in itself a super-
lative . • 


**Title: The rape of Miss Ginsberg: or, the confessions of a film freak**
**Author: David Freeman**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

The f"nt entry - Monday: 
I think I am an artist. An artist of 
movie goma. At work, at my job, they 
think of me as cold, because I don't have 
coffee with them or make jokes. I have 
other concerns. Also they trunk of me as 
fat, although I am not. They think of me 
as enormously obese, as a grotesque fat 
man who waddles and has chafed lep. 
They joke about how I can't fit through 
doors. They have a pool to see who can 
guess my weight. The winner gets aU the 
coffee he wants. 

Second entry - Tuesday: 
Today I go to the Elpn. The ticket 
man will not look at me. It is because I 
am fat. Maybe he thinks I will get my 
fat on his tickets or I will spill food on 
him. He is an ass. I Jive him my two dol-
lars and ask for one. He presses his ma-
chine and the ticket comes out. He thinks 
the machine is copper - it's only brass 
it maybe copperplate. I go in. There 
are no ushers at the FJgin anymore. Only 
the ticket man. He used to be the usher. 
He went up and down the aisles shining 
his flashlight up girls' skirts when their 
feet were up on the chairs. Now he is 
only the ticket man. He no longer wears 
the usher's uniform with the rows of 
copper buttons and the yellow brushes 
on the shoulders. Maybe I will get a job 
as usher for the Elgin. They have no pop-
com there, only some crummy candy 
bar machines downstairs by the toilets. 
In Chelsea, where the Elgin is, there are 
only crazy people and Puerto Ricans now. 
But they have double features. Today is 
·Rosemary's Baby and Shameless Old 
Lady. Rosemary's Baby is good. You 
get to see he.- breasts and her ass. She 
David Freeman, a contributing editor, 
is presently preparing an anthology of 
his short stories, several of which first 
appeared in The New Journal. 
looks too skinny with her clothes on. 
Her- legs are skinny, but her breasts are 
good. The other- picture is dull - she 
wears her clothes. But I know what is 
under- them, and now that I know, I 
won't forget. In the Elgin there is an old 
man with his hat in his lap. When she 
is on the screen he plays with himself. 
He's fat and old. He sweats and his legs 
are chafed. He plays with himself when 
she is naked, he pretends he is screwing 
her. He thinks the hat cove.-s him, but be 
can't fool me. He is disgusting. At the 
office they take bets on how long he will 
live. "No one that fat will live," they 
say. "He plays with himself in the 
movies." He thinks he is the devil screw-
ing her. 

I stay to see Rosemary's Baby twice, 
but not the other one. The other one is 
stupid. I go home and sleep and chafe 
Rosemary's head with my fat legs. She 
knows I am the devil. She loves the red 
splotches on my lep. When I waddle on 
my chafed thighs, she says it is like 
Chaplin dancing. 

Third entry - Wednesday: 
We leave work early, at 3:00. They 
all go to a bar. I am invited, but I say 
no. It is early and I go downtown on the 
Lexington Ave. line to the Variety Photo 
Plays. I love the Variety Photo Plays. It's 
before f"ave and I can see the double fea-
ture for f"lfty cents: The Carpet Baggers 
and Son of Aubber. I feel goo4 at the 
Variety Photo Plays. It's full of old men. 
They sleep or go back and forth to the 
toilet. Some drink &om bottles wrapped 
in brown paper bags. They are all fools. 
In the lobby is my favorite picture: a 
color portrait of Wild Bill Elliot. It is 
signed, "Your pal Bill Elliot." The best 
thing about it is that it's always there. 
Bill Elliot is always my pal. I sit down 
front. I am the only one in my row. I 
sit as far &om the toilet as I can. Martha 
Hyer is in it. That's alii can remember. 
I go cross town to the Loew's Sheri-
dan. Riot. I don't like it. While I am in 
·line for my ticket they all say it's are-
make of The Informer by John Ford. 
They mean Uptight. They are so dumb. 
On the marquee it says "Jim Brown in 
Riot with Mike Killin." Killin. They are 
so dumb at the Loew's Sheridan. They 
don't even know it's Kellin. I don't like 
the movie. The Informer was better. Jim 
Brown can't act. He only gets parts be-
cause be was a football star and because 
he is black. On the way out I see the 
marquee again. Killin. lao to a phone 
booth across the street and caD the man-
aaer of the Loew's Sheridan. Her-e is what 
we said: 
••b this the JD8D81el' of the Loew's 
Sher-idan?" 
"Yes." 
•"'bis is Syd Ferrullo." (I make up a 
name and it's mine.) ... represent Mike 
Kellin the actor starring in Riot. The 
film you're now showing." 
"Oh yes Mr. Ferrullo." (He's hooked -
IUCkin& up to me. I have him now. Mine.) 
.. Yes. I'm Mr. Mike Kellin's penoaal 
maJI8Iel' and I noticed this mominc u 
I went by the Loew's Sheridan tb.t you 
spelled my dient's name wronJ on the 
marquee. You have an I wher-e an E 
should be." 
.. Oh, I hadn't noticed." 
.. This is unthinkable. You could lose 
your license. One call from me to the 
home office and you would lose your 
license." 
..Well sometimes they run out of let-
ters. E's break very easily and some-
times they have to substitute. They only 
substitute vowels for vowels." 
.. 1 am a very busy man and I must 
get back to Hollywood. You must cor-
rect this indignity, or I will cause you 
to lose your license." 
.. I'm sure we can straiJbten it out -" 
.. But I can't do it right a~y - that's 
a union job, the union man's gone home." 
.. Fix it immediately or lose your li-
cense. I will check it out on my way to 
Hollywood. Tonight. Goodbye." I hang 
up and go to a restaurant and watch. 
Pretty soon a bald man and an usher with 
a ladder come out. The usher goes up and 
_the bald man yells at him. They break up 
another letter and use it to tum the I 
into an E. They f"mish and I leave. Mike 
Kellin has been avenged. I am his guard-
ian. I will be his P.R. man and avenge 
him. I will go all over- the world for him, 
searching the marquees of the world for 
Mike Kellin, protecting his name. 

Fourth entry - Friday: 
They are going to a bar again. After 
work they all go to The Pub. I have 
never- been there. This time I am not 
invited. One of them said "Let's go to 
The Pub, everybody." Then someone 
else said .. Thank god it's Friday." They 
say this every Friday, before they 10 to 
The Pub. Sometimes I am asked specifical-
ly to go. But not this time. Once, one girl, 
Miss Ginsberg, asked me to go. Specif"ICal-
ly. I said I was going away for the week-
end. She has not asked me again. She is a 
fde clerk, very young. I got he.- fde. She 
is 19 and has skinny legs and long brown 
hair. That is the advantage of being in 
the personnel department. The files are 
for me. She can have no secrets from me. 
Only I may see the fdes. Miss Ginsberg 
is 19. I am 34. 

I go early to The New Yorker and I see 
The Pickpocket. It only costs a dollar. 
The New Yorker bas the best popcorn 
of all the theatres. As usual it is fresh. 
Big white kernels. It costs twenty-fave 
cents. That is not too bad. The lady who 
sells it is my friend. She smiles at me. 
Perhaps she owns The New Yorker-. Or 
hu husband. She doesn't like to seD 
candy or ice cream, only to make pop-
com. She makes it for me. Otbe.-s may 
have popcorn too, but only when I per-
mit it. The film is good. A pic.kpocket 
in Paris. He wants to stop but he can't. 
No mattu what, he must pick pockets. 
He practices till be is the best pickpocket 
in Paris. He lives only to pick pockets. 
He is an artist of pocket picking. I under-
and this. In the movie all the doon are 
unlOcked. There are shots that show this 
cleuty. It's not an accident. Perbapa it 
means that even when doors are open be



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
cannot walk through them - he cannot 
stop picking pockets, even though he 
wants to. I do not understand this. The 
picture is by Bresson. It is short and I 
see it twice. Still I do not understand the 
open doors. On the way out the popcorn 
lady smiles at me. She says "Nighty 
Night." I say nothing. Nighty night. 

Fifth entry - Saturday: 
No work today. I go to the movies. I 
see Shoot The Piano Player. This is one 
of my favorite movies. But this time 
something is different. Miss Ginsberg is 
in it. She plays a small part at the begin-
ning. I didn't know she had been to 
France. This is not in her file. I must 
bring it up to date. It will be our secret. 
Next I see Reflections in a Golden Eye 
at the Baronet. It is too serious. The 
people are all crazy. I do not under-
stand it. Elizabeth Taylor was too fat. I 
watch only once and leave. I go to see 
The Killing of Sister George, at the 
Orleans. It is much better. It is a movie 
about a fat man with chafed legs. He 
rapes a young girl of 19 who works in 
an office. She is so repelled by him that 
she dies. She sees his fat stomach and 
smells his sweat and his chafed legs and 
dies. He is so fat that the insides of his 
pants legs are worn through from rubbing 
together. She sees this, so he rapes her. 
She gets sick from his weight on her and 
vomits. She strangles on her vomit be-
cause he wilJ not let her up. He rubs the 
vomit on her stomach and then he comes 
into the vomit. It mixes together and 
makes a devil. Then the devil rapes her. 
It is in technicolor. There is also a coming 
attraction for Secret Ceremony. More 
Elizabeth Taylor. 

Besides being a fale clerk, Miss Gins-
berg is in the movies. She is only a r.Je 
clerk by day. At night she is in the movies. 
Not a star, but someday perhaps. She is 
a starlet. She was in Rosemary's Baby, 
it was her biggest part to date. She made 
love to the devil. I saw her breasts and 
her ass. I will make her a star. I will 
make her the moon. No one must know 
of this. 

At night I go to the Elgin. I see a 
double feature of Love in the Afternoon 
and Breakfast at Tiffany's, both starring 
Miss Ginsberg. A strange thing happens. 
During the fmt one, Love in the After-
noon, Miss Ginsberg was talking quietly 
with Maurice Chevalier who plays her 
father, the private detective, and in the 
next frame, she was ten years older and 
in bed with George Peppard. In techni-
color. Everyone in the audience laughed 
and then the movie went off. I am not 
sure what to make of this, perhaps Miss 
Ginsberg is giving me a signal, it's hard to 
teD 'if this was an accident or a code. 

Sixth entry- Sunday: 
Viridiana. I will watch it twice, may-
be more. It is a great movie. At The 
Charles. That means dry popcorn, but 
1 will go to see Viridiana. In The Charles 
you can hear people cough and gag on 
the gluey popcorn. It has no butter only 
salt. 

It was a bad print and the sound track 
was fuzzy, but it was pretty much in fo-
cus and it was all there. Sometimes it is 
cut and you don't get to see the scene 
where Viridiana puts the salve on the 
leper's arm. That is a good shot. He stares 
at her white skin and her teeth and she 
caresses his rotting arm. I saw it three 
times. I love the banquet scene when the 
old man fucks the cook and the blind 
man goes wild. He destroys the banquet 
with his cane. He hates the man who is 
fucking the cook. And he hates the cook. 
But he can't do anything because he is 
blind. So he eats some more of the cook's 
custard, then wrecks everything. And the 
old man still fucks the cook. No matter 
what the blind man does the old man will 
still fuck the cook till he's through. So 
the blind man might as weD eat the cus-
tard. Viridiana has white skin and skinny 
legs. I will confess to y~u that when Don 
Jairnie drugs her and tries to Tape her, I 
play with myself. I use my coat in my lap 
so no one can know. Don Jaimie cannot 
do it. He is a coward. I can.do it. 

Tonight I saw Miss Ginsberg in Some· 
thing for the Boys at the Thalia, where 
they are showing funny old movies. The 
audience is usually full of queers who 
laugh hysterically at the stupid parts. 
In this one Miss Ginsberg played Carmen 
Miranda who was a lady riveter. It was 
her job to rivet the airplanes to beat the 
Japs. She worked on a long line of lady 
riveters, riveting the bulls of B-47's. The 
problem was that she worked so hard to 
beat the Japs that she kept getting metal 
fdings from the rivets in her mouth, 
which turned her teeth into a radio. She 
wore tight denim overalls and whenever 
The Andrews Sisters carne over her teeth 
singing "Bei Mir Bist Du Shein," all the 
riveters would stop working on the B-47's 
and sing and dance for a while. Miss Gins-
berg was very good. In one scene she wore 
a big hat with apples and grapes on it. 
Phil Silvers was also in the picture. 

Next I see The Impossible Years at 
the Coronet. Although she is not on the 
marquee, Miss Ginsberg is in it. Not the 
lead, but in it. She plays the daughter of 
a psychiatrist, David Niven. She is in a 
bikini. I know it is Miss Ginsberg. I recog-
nize the breasts and the skinny legs. I 
have seen the devil screwing her and I 
know her. I go to the phone in the men's 
room and call the manager. I tell him I 
am the manager of Miss Sharon Ginsberg 
and she has not received proper billing. 
He is not as scared as the manager of the 
Loew's Sheridan. He says he has billing 
instructions and they do not include 
Miss Ginsberg. He hangs up. Miss Gins-
berg is in trouble. Her career is not going 
weU. Fucked by the devil and no billing 
at the Coronet. She needs help. I will 
help her career. I will hijack the IRT and 
take her out to Hollywood. We will hi-
jack it together. I will drive the first car, 
battling off Indians and conductors. Miss 
Ginsberg will bandage my wounds and 
bring me food to give me strength to 
guide the IRT across the mountains and 
over the desert and onto Hollywood. 

It is possible that her name was in the 
final titles - they closed the curtains be-
fore I could tell. That is the thing I hate 
the most - closing the curtains during the 
final titles. I love good titles. Titles make 
a movie mean somethlns. Sometimes they 


--- Page 11 ---

( 
open and shut the curtains at the begin-
ning - right on the movie during the 
titles, for no reason. They do this at 
many theatres and it's a terrible thing. 

My favorite titles are From Russia With 
Love. At night I saw Beast That Walks 
Like a Man at the Variety Photo Plays. 
The titles came out of the monster's 
mouth. At The Variety Photo Plays they 
never close the curtain, because they 
don't have one. That is why I like the 
Variety Photo Plays. Once at The Win-
ston they shut the curtains on the last 
shot of Killer's Kiss. I called the manager 
to complain. I said I was Darryl Zanuck 
and their stupidity was ruining my movie. 
He didn't believe me. He said if I called 
again, he'd have the call traced. But I 
know more than he thinks. I only call 
from phone booths - let them trace, it 
won't prove a thing. Darryl Zanuck knows 
more than the manager of The Winston 
can ever dream of. 

Seventh entry - Monday: 
After work I go home on the IRT. I 
see Miss Ginsberg on the train. On the 
IRT! She shouldn't be here. She should 
be at rehearsals or making her movie. 
I see her but I look into my Post , at the 
movie clock. Today she came to my 
desk and said something. She asked me 
where I live. I couldn't tell her. I didn't 
know. I said the West side. I tell her I 
enjoyed her performance in Rosemary's 
Baby. She laughs. She doesn't remember 
that I am the devil. She was asleep when 
I screwed her. She cannot remember, 
but I do. She is still laughing. She touches 
my arm. On the IRT she touches my 
arm. No one must know of this. 

Eighth entry - Wednesday: 
No work yesterday. I called in and said 
I was sick. I stayed in bed all morning. 
Miss Ginsberg may know I am the devil 
in Rosemary's Baby, but she must not 
speak of this. This must be our secret . 

In the afternoon I go to 66th. St. and 
fmd her building and study it. She lives 
on the fourth floor. I try to fmd her win-
dow. Many people go in and out of the 
building. None of them are in the movies. 
None of them are Miss Ginsberg. None of 
them know the devil's chafed thighs. Af-
ter studying her building I go to Yellow 
Submarine. Young girls no longer scream 
at The Beatles. During the first Beatles 
movie they aU screamed. I watched one 
time from the middle of screaming girls, 
but none of them touched my arm. The 
movie is not bad. I take a cab home. 

N'mth entry - Thursday: 
She asks me where I was yesterday. I 
teD her I was sick. She says if it happens 
again I should call her and she will bring 
me chicken soup. Then she laughs. Chick-
en soup is a big joke to her. This is un-
thinkable. She will bring me chicken 
soup, she will bathe my leper's ann and 
my chafed thighs in chicken soup. After 
work I follow her. I get in the car behind 
her and foDow her to 66th. St. It is winter 
and dark. She doesn't see me. 

Tenth entry - Friday: 
Today in the newspaper. We will sell 
the film rights to our story. Miss Gins-
berg and I will split the money. It is her 
story too - our story, together. We will 
parachute through sides of chicken soup 
dowb into Hollywood. She will caress my 
chafed thighs as we faD. We will be in 
the movies, she and I. My story was in 
the Daily News and the Post. The Times 
did not cover it. I don't know if it was on 
T.V. Perhaps it will be in the newsreels. 
Here is our story from the Post: 
ATTEMPTED RAPE 
A 24 year old Bronx housewife was 
attacked early today near her home on 
I 67th St. 
The woman said a man with a ski mask 
jumped out of an alley and "ripped my 
blouse." 
The woman's screams apparently drove 
her assailant away. 
Police are investigating. 

A perfect disguise. Miss Ginsberg has pur-
posely thrown the police off my trail. 
Bambi is out of the flames, the danger 
has passed. She is on my side, and now I 
can proceed. 

Eleventh entry - Sunday: 
Today I see Rachel Rachel. It is very 
good: a boy and a girl carrying a trunk 
with brass buckles parachute from the sky 
and fall on the beach. They open the 
trunk and an old drunk in baggy pants 
and a sleeveless undershirt gets out. He 
can't walk straight. He tries, but he can't 
even get back in the trunk. The boy and 
girl laugh at him and then make love, 
only she is very coy and won't let him, 
because his thighs are chafed. He ties the 
drunk to a tree and tries to rape her. 
But the drunk promises the leper money 
if he will kill the fat man before he rapes 
her. The leper hits the fatman on his 
chafed thighs with the brass buckles, 
and Viridiana is saved for Don Jaintie 's 
son. Then they all pick up the trunk with 
the brass buckles and run into the ocean 
which is chicken soup. The end. This is 
a good film. It is the f'lrst one Paul New-
man ever- directed. 

After Rachel Rachel I go to the River-
side which is near Miss Ginsberg's house. 
Sometimes movie stars go to neighbor-
hood theatres to see their films, unno-
ticed. I look for her, but she doesn't show 
up. The movie is Hot Millions with Peter 
Ustinov. lt is about a robbery. I don't 
like it. During the movie I watch a taU 
skinny man play with himself. He slumps 
down in the second row until he is one 
with himself. He is a very skinny man 
and his teeth are like a transistor radio. 

Twelfth entry - Monday: 
Miss Ginsberg is at work today. She 
acts like nothing has happened. This is 
good, part of the code. She smiles at 
me and comes to my desk to speak. Here 
is what we said: 
"You're so thin - don't you eat any-
thing?" 
" I'm very overweight." 
"Oh yeah, and I'm in Rosemary's 
Baby." 
"Shh. Don't let anyone know." 

Then she laughed and went away. This is 
good. She speaks in code with me. Only 
I know what she means. She wears a 
brown mini-skirt today and a tight blouse. 
It covers her from the others, but not 
from me. I am the devil and I have eyes 
that can see her soul. No one must know 

Today I am disguised as a fat man. 
No one will know me. I will fmd Miss 
~msberg after she gets off the i'RT and 
we will make our movie. Dumbo will fly 
tonight. I move quietly through the 
cars when the train is stopped at Colum-
bus Circle. She is in the car just ahead 
and I can see her through the doors. I 
cover my face with the Post, looking at 
the movie clock. Perhaps afterwards I 
will see Fireman's BaD at Cinema II. She 
gets off at 66th. St. as usual, and I fol-
low. I stay in the shadows of the 66th. 
St. station and she cannot see me. My 
disguise is perfect. I am cli1guised as a 
fat shadow. I can move easily without 
her seeing me. For a fat man I am very 
graceful. I follow her brown hair up 66th. 
St. towards the park, and grab her arm 
from behind. Here is what we said: 
" Well, hi. Do you live around here?" 
" We must make a movie." 
" What's aU this movie stuff with you, 
anyway?" 
" I am the devil." 
" I didn't see that one." 
" You are Rosemary's Baby and I am 
the devil with eyes that can see your 
soul." 
" Boy you are really nuts." 
"Bambi is in the flames." 
"Oh I love Bambi. And Thumper. I 
saw it when I was a little girl. I saw Rose-
mary's Baby, too. It was scary." 
"There is no more hope. Dumbo flies 
tonight." 
" I live right here - why don't you 
come up for a while. I'D bet you haven't 
had dinner yet - from the look of you, 
you never have dinner." 
"No, no. Good-bye." 
"I could make a tuna casserole ... " 

I didn't hear what she said after that -
I had to run, there will be no f'ilining to-
night. 

I go to see The Fireman's Ball. 


**Title: The long blue line**
**Author: Rod Green**
**Page number(s): 12**

I've spent three and a half years in ROTC, 
and if there's one thing Army officers 
are proud of it's the long blue line of 
Yale officers. I recall vaguely that there 
was a mass meeting last year. Most people 
seem to think we abolished ROTC then. 
But President Brewster and the Corpo· 
ration seem to feel differently, since 
Reuben Holden has been energetically 
negotiating with the Department of the 
Army for a new contract. So ROTC is 
still here. And it's busy training officers. 

Just what goes on in that training? 

From the first day in the program you 
learn about the sanctity of the chain of 
command and the absolute necessity for 
unquestioning obedience to orders - no 
matter how odd. You are absolved from 
responsibility either to your men or to 
yourself in following your orders. This is 
degrading, but the army makes it up by 
having individual competitions for out· 
standing cadet of the week in drill per-
formance, superior cadet of the year for 
general achievement, expertise in marks· 
manship, as well as with unit competitions 
{best platoon for barracks cleanliness 
each day at summer camp). When you 
have all this excellence to strive for, it 
becomes easier and easier to be distracted 
from considering the nature of the war 
and the nature of the army. The really 
frightening thing is that these games we 
play in ROTC form the core activity in 
the real army, ofttimes even in Vietnam. 
It is reflected in the erroneous body 
counts we've heard about - it's more 
important for a unit to win the competi· 
tion for dead bodies than to fight a war. 
You focus on the trivial competition for 
status within the army - not on the war, 
since that is not necessarily justifiable, 
though a game always is. 

The ROTC program is designed to put 
you in command over other cadets. You 
are constantly told to upbraid your "in· 
feriors" on points of military discipline and 
conduct (such as haircuts, shined shoes, 
tardiness, etc.). The officers stress this 
particularly at summer camp, where a 
cadet platoon leader is graded on the 
amount of military efficiency he can pull 
out of the cadets "under" him. That the 
army attaches primary significance to 
this kind of training is shown in the fact 
that almost all platoon evaluators (and 
most officers in local ROTC programs) 
are higher ranking officers. Actual mili· 
tary skills are de-emphasized, and they 
are always taught by junior-grade officers. 
You spend only one day learning how to 
fire the entire arsenal of weapons (includ· 
ing tanks), and the rest of summer camp 
is spent learning techniques of control 
through the military games you play. 

Control through gamesmanship, a deadly 
game of Russian roulette in which every 
effort is made to detract from the fact 
that the gun is loaded. That's what offi. 
cer training is all about. 

You also hear all kinds of stories about 
Gls who deviate from the military norm 
(go AWOL, desert, steal from the army, 
etc.), and who are ergo deviants. No class 
is complete without one or two such 
stories. The proper method of handling 
deviants is, first, you ask them to 
straighten up, and then use techniques of 
punishment- Article IS's, cuts in pay· 
checks, fines and the stockade. Passes and 
leaves are to be used primarily for the pw· 
pose of discipline, rather than as responses 
to the human needs of Gls. And of course, 
there must be no nicety about shooting 
that supreme deviant, the GI who is re· 
calcitrantjn combat. After all, examples 
must be set. 

One officer explained to me the need 
to keep the men polishing their boots and 
shining their brass: if they are allowed to 
have any time to themselves, they will 
begin to bitch about the army, and a 
severe morale problem may develop. Keep 
them busy, keep them distracted, keep 
them mindless, because Gls, if left to 
their own devices, are trouble makers. 

Another thing I've noticed in the train· 
ing is the way blacks are regarded. I've 
tr:ied discussing my work with the New 
Haven Welfare Moms with a couple of 
officers, and I'm always met with the 
standard myths about black people -
that they are lazy, violent, like to be on 
welfare and are undependable. One offi· 
cer proved his point about blacks by glee-
fully telling about an all-black regiment 
in World War II that broke and ran before 
a clearly inferior German unit in the 
Battle of the Bulge. The military history 
course never mentions the role that black 
regiments played in winning the Revolu-
tionary War. In a three-month course on 
leadership techniques, we listened to tapes 
of problems which could arise between 
the officer and the GI. In about seventy-
five percent of the cases, the soldier, who 
was either drunk, violent or stupid, was 
black. 

Once the future officer is trained in 
these specific attitudes toward leadership 
there is the problem of making the latest 
objective of the army into "the enemy." 
We have seen two counter-insurgency 
fllms, both of which portray the people 
of an insurgent country as dumb and 
easily manipulable. Guerilla insurgents 
are portrayed as hysterical and blood· 
thirsty, slaughtering peasants right and 
left. Of course, the dumb peasants fall to 
the hysterical guerillas, and the even-
handed United States Army has to be 
called in to save the country from collapse. 
One of the few realistic scenes is one be· 
tween the United States ambassador and 
the local rulers, in which the ambassador 
promises all the resources of the United 
States to support them. 

When we are taught about the inter-
rogation of prisoners the instructors point 
out that the South Koreans, because of 
their small regard for the value of human 
life, are the best troops to use for extract· 
ing information from enemy soldiers. I 
have heard many a thrilling tale, told 
with great gusto, about how mercilessly 
the South Koreans carry out this mission 
in Vietnam. With the same sort of reason· 
ing we are also taught that this is why the 
Chinese Nationalists (under United States 
command) are so effective in Operation 
Phoenix - a systematic rooting out of the 
Viet Cong infrastructure in which each



**Title: ROTC at Yale**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
13/The New Journal/ April 12, 1970 
village is given a monthly quota of bodies 
to turn in. 

Then there are the stories specifically 
about the Vietnamese. "Gook" is more 
frequently used than "Vietnamese." Sen-
sational hair-raising stories of atrocities 
committed by the Viet Cong are examined 
at length, atrocities which are of course 
peculiar to Oriental culture. The Viet-
namese are beasts, we are told, but very 
wily beasts, so you must be on your 
guard and not underestimate their fight-
ing strength. But once you trap the 
~ . wily beasts, they spill their guts and tell 
everything they know, because they are 
essentially chicken. 

One particularly cogent experience was 
the Vietnamese village exercise at summer 
camp. Since many ROTC officers will be 
going to Vietnam, the camp provides a 
simulated village which a platoon prac-
tices attacking, searching and destroying. 
82nd Airborne Rangers and their children 
are dressed up in black pajamas and play 
the roles of Vietnamese citizens. As we 
walked into the village, they paraded 
around like apes scratching their armpits 
and chattering like monkeys. The yellow 
peril lives. 

Utter contempt for the enemy based 
on his race is useful in popularizing the 
war. There can be problems, though. One 
officer told me that he knew of a platoon 
which was wiped out by the Viet Cong 
because the platoon leader had told his 
men that the Vietnamese people would 
• never get themselves together enough to 
fight the Americans. The officer told me 
not to make the same mistake; that I 
should point out to my men all the pecu-
liar aspects of the "Oriental" which make 
him on the one hand inhuman and on the 
other a clever fighter. 

ROTC training is all about controlling 
, , 
people who don't want to be controlled 
and fighting people who want the United 
States out of their country. Gamesman-
ship, contempt for the Gls (an added 
measure for black Gls) and contempt for 
the enemy are three primary techniques 
in the training. Yet, in spite of the fact 
that ROTC inculcates its cadets with 
these rather questionable values and atti-
tudes, the presence of the program on a 
~ university campus is apparently justifi-
able in many regards. 

I've heard a huge amount of talk about 
ROTC, but a lot of it doesn't relate at all 
to what ROTC actually does, i.e., provide 
the military with officers to help accom-
plish "national objectives." Some of the 
well-meaning but misleading arguments 
are that the course content of ROTC is 
inappropriate for a university; the in-
structors are unqualified; the program is 
professionally oriented; a binding con-
tract contradicts the premise of a liberal 
education; Yale ROTC humanizes the 
military; and the individual has a right to 
choose to join ROTC. 

From the standpoint of the university, 
much of what is taught in ROTC is edu-
cational. Military tactics, military history, 
leadership courses, the political significance 
of the military are not that much different 
from clearly legitimate areas such as 
political techniques and election studies, 
technological histocy, management tech-
niques, or industrial relations. There are 
tests, papers and lectures just as in most 
Yale courses. In many ways the courses 
are guts, but remember Margaret Mead? 
Ask any senior and he can list a half-dozen 
guts which receive full recognition t:iy 
Yale. 

The officers who teach the courses 
have had long experience in various parts 
of the Army directly related to the courses 
they teach. Engineers teach courses based 
on their experience and training which 
stress technological solutions to man's 
social problems. In an academic commu-
nity which stresses freedom for all ap-
proaches and views, Army officers 
logically should have the same right to 
teach courses which give military solu -
tions to social problems, solutions which 
stem from their experience and training. 

Professionalism is not only an attribute 
of ROTC, but also applies to photography, 
writing courses, and much of the scientific 
and engineering curricula. Professional 
schools abound in the Yale Community; if 
a student wants to decide a few years 
early what profession he wants to follow, 
why should Yale impede him? If Yale will 
admit students right out of high school 
into a professional training program in 
drama, why not allow them to enlist in a 
professional training program for the 
military? The professionalism-of-the-army 
argument also ignores that most ROTC 
contracts are only for two-year commis-
sions, hardly a lifetime career, and that 
the army is extremely diverse internally -
there are fighters, doctors, writers, lawyers, 
managers, administrators all within the 
army. And through the ROTC program 
there are numerous opportunities for 
graduate or professional training. In many 
ways the army simply mirrors society at 
large, something wh1ch Yale is supposedly 
preparing us to lead. 

With the draft facing most male stu-
dents, it seems that there is already a 
forced contract between the army and the 
student, and the ROTC contract is a mere 
refinement of this. The so-called binding 
contracts are not that hard to break. If a 
student wants out, he can usually get out 
just by talking to the head of the program; 
the contract will probably be tom up on 
the spot. Although there is more hassle 
for a scholarship student, it is still 
possible. 

In the report of the board of officers 
which interrogated me about disenroll-
ment, there is stated, "Cadet Green, by 
his action in requesting disenrollment, 
has demonstrated an immaturity, irre-
sponsibility and a lack of dependability 
that discredit his proved academic abil-
ities and make his effectiveness in a posi-
tion of responsibility doubtful and 
unpredictable." Requesting disenrollment 
was enough, according to this philosophy, 
to disqualify me from being an officer. 
The point is that if you don't want to be 
an officer, the army doesn't want you to 
be an officer. They have enough trouble 
with the enlisted personnel that the offi-
cers are supposed to be controlling. And 
of course specifically here at Yale, where 
ROTC has already been partially emas-
culated by the abolishment of course 


--- Page 14 ---

credit and the removal of professorial title 
for ROTC officers, the question of a bind-
ing contract is very minor as the new 
contract with the Department of the Army 
will probably have a clause providing for 
the terminatiqn of the contract at any 
point. 

Ooesn 't ROTC humanize the army, 
especially ROTC at high-class schools like 
Yrue or Harvard? We know already that 
the majority of officers in the army are 
ROTC products, some of them Yale and 
Harvard products as well, and that the 
army still is not particularly humane. But 
let's analyze the argument a little further. 
The effect of junior officers is practically 
nil - they are trained to take their orders 
and in fact do take their orders or end 
up in the stockade just as any other 
soldier. And with an intense training pro-
gram which emphasizes leadership tech-
niques based upon supremacist, racial and 
social values, for how long can you expect 
even a Y alie to remain an even-minded 
humanitarian? The point is not that all 
Yalies are humane, but that Yalies may 
have higher college board scores than 
other people and thus be "brighter." We 
all know plenty of inhumane people at 
Yale who are generally quite clever about 
their inhumanity. (What about the flyer, 
"Fight poverty - sterilize the Welfare 
Moms"?) By putting cleverer people in 
the officer corps, however, the army is 
streamlined in its mission, which is, as 
I have been told over and over again, to 
seek out and destroy the enemy. Junior 
officers who zero in with more deadly 
aim or who drop napalm more accurately 
are the only "humane" results of having 
clever people from Yale in the army offi-
. cer corps. 

Even if Yale ROTC students were more 
humane than most people, the majority of 
them don't end up where they would have 
to question their roles as "humanitarians." 
They are put in non-combat or combat 
support branches where they can operate 
and manage efficient machines without 
having to confront their consciences di-
rectly with the uglier tasks of the army. 
By putting ''relative humanitarians" in 
non-combat positions, whether they come 
from Yale or elsewhere, the army rele9ses 
the less humanitarian elements to the front 
lines, where they can go to work with 
deadly efficient support from the humani· 
tarians. The army takes the most pro-
ficient organizers and managers and puts 
them in support jobs, and puts the re-
mainder in the infantry. It knows what it 
is doing. Only seven Yale ROTC graduates 
will be in the infantry this year, several 
by their own choice. Actions of "humane" 
individuals in the army tend to help the 
army in fulfilling its basic, non-humane 
function. 

The mainstay of the "keep ROTC" 
attitude is the rubric of academic freedom. 
If a man wants to become an officer then 
he has that right, and why shouldn't Yale 
provide him with the opportunity? The 
Yale administration condones the visits 
of recruiters from the major corporations, 
professional schools, government agencies -
and even allows Abbie Hoffman to speak 
here. So why shouldn't the military be 
free to recruit and ROTC be allowed to 
stay? 

But in the ivory tower epithets of aca· 
demic freedom we ignore a basic fact of 
the human condition, that man is a social 
animal, that his individual actions have 
direct consequences for social institutions 
and relations, and that many apparently 
individual actions form specific social 
institutions. ROTC is an example of the 
latter. So in asking the question about 
academic and individual freedom, if one 
is at all serious about it, one must ask, 
should a person have the right to pursue 
the activities of a given institution, or more 
sharply, should that institution exist? Do 
the tenets of academic freedom justify 
an establishment which prepares men to 
execute "national objectives" inimical 
to most people through means equally 
destructive to Gls? Should anyone have 
the right to participate in an institution 
which inculcates values contemptuous 
of vast numbers of people? If the value 
of academic freedom implies that we must 
accept an institution which acts on such 
attitudes as "blacks are violent and unde-
pendable," "Orientals place no value on 
human life," or "Gis tend to be de-
viants," then we ought to think twice. 

The question of individual right and the. 
social impact of exercising that right are 
inseparable. 

One must also consider ROTC's social 
role. Simply, how has it been used? It is 
the main source of junior leaders for the 
military. And how has this military been 
used? It has been used against the Viet-
namese people for many years, and this 
utilization is only the most highly esca-
lated example of similar intervention 
throughout the world by the American 
military in recent years. The military has 
been used against ghetto and campus resi· 
dents when milder ways of rejecting their 
demands have failed to stifle their mill· 
tancy. It has been used five times in the 
last two years to break strikes, as in the 
current dispute between the government 
and the postal workers. In each of these 
situations there are people who feel 
oppressed and who are trying to alleviate 
some of that oppression, moving towards 
greater control over their own lives 
through group action. 

This is the principle - freedom through 
self-determination - that Yale ostensibly 
desires for its children. Yet one way it 
puts this abstract notion into practice is 
ROTC, a mainstay of the military machine, 
which even in its own operation, often 
interferes with efforts at self-determina-
tion. It is a paradox, indeed, unless Yale 
sees that such a military is essential to 
allowing some kind of self-determination 
for its few elected elite. I doubt that most 
students would see things in that light. 

Whatever the motivation of the adminis· 
tration, it has fought every effort to 
abolish ROTC at Yale. We must be willing 
to fight also . • 

Credits: 
Leonard Baskin: page 7 
copyright 1969 
John Friedman: page 12 
David March: pages 8,9,10,1 1 


**Title: Yale Rep's Transformations**
**Author: Lou Gilbert**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

... Transformations 
It is common knowledge that young poets 
and novelists don't have to publish to 
grow. But people who write for the 
theatre must see their work produced to 
get a sense of what "works" on stage. 
Hence the importance of the Yale 
Repertory Company's newest theatre 
evening, Transformations, which con-
sists of three plays by Yale playwrights. 
The Rhesus Umbrella opens on a very 
pretty bundle of lights that represent a 
computer. Frequent black-outs, short 
scenes, and the deliberately flat style 
of reading lines makes the play into 
something of a cartoon. Doctor Harold 
., comes on stage worried about his son; he 
had opened the boy's briefcase and found 
turkish taffee. The computer (Albert) 
suggests the boy is in love. The boy eats 
a banana and says, "I think I'm in 
1 # 
love." And so on. Mr. Wanshel does not 
• fret over logical connections and neither 
should we. 

If I persist in taking the plot seriously 
I will be accused of a fearsome lack of 
intelligence. Unfortunately there is 
nothing else in the play to think about. 
The actors deserve better material - I 
just know that two actors jiving in th.e 
course of a meal can say funnier and more 
penetrating things. Mr. Wanshel was think· 
ing of something when he wrote this -
the man grows dependent on the ma-
chine, the boy grows into a monkey, the 
machine grows almost human - and 
these are ideas that could make a play. 
They make, instead, half-hearted jokes. 

The second play is David Epstein's 
two-character work, Clutch. It is the 
most economical and most effective 
play of the three, and it is more than 
admirably performed by David Ackroyd 
and Joan Pape. Aimed particularly at 
modern personal relationships, Ep-
stein's play centers on the automobile 
and the open road, seeing them as meta· 
phors for American life. The couple 
starts out as a pair of super-patriotic 
motor-cycle freaks; they are trans-
formed into a tired middle-aged couple 
bitchingin a car. 

In a play whose world is as ridiculous 
as it is inescapable, Ackroyd has found 
just the right style: a mixture of the 
clown's broad mime, and the dead 
seriousness of a man tackling the day's 
work. We recall him as the David Ackroyd 
who couldn't stand up straight in last 
season's Story Theatre. But even recog· 
nizing in his growth as a performer one 
good reason for having a Repertory 
company, we have to view the thinness, 
the weakness, of these plays as a necessary 
beginning: maybe next year will be a time 
for seeing how good the writing is. 

The third play , Iz She lzzy Or lz He 
Aint'zy Or lz They Both by Lonnie Car· 
ter, is the longest, and most demanding 
play of the evening. In a curious way it 
tells us more about comedy than the 
other plays, though it is not any fun-
nier. 

Finally, the reason Carter's play does 
not work has to do with the actors them-
selves, who are uncomfortable with his 
zaniness. Superficially, the style of the 
Marx brothers was a collection of sight 
gags, chases, vulgar puns, mockery of 
institutions, and fast talk that commented 
constantly on itself. Carter has that. 
What the Yale Rep actors could not fmd 
was what Peter O'Toole called "the blink· 
ered point of view" that lets you know 
that they could not possibly act other-
wise. The Yale actors own their bodies in 
the sense that a dancer does: they can 
assume a pace, can get a position right, 
but we don't believe them; their madness, 
especially in Carter's play, is not organic. 

The theatre Brustein talks about, the 
theatre of transformations, is one we are 
all looking forward to seeing. It is un-
nerving when Brustein thinks such a 
theatre is there, and it obviously is not. 
The playwrights have not transformed the 
their roots, TV comedy, into anything 
that threatens, enlightens, or excites us. 
The actors, for the most part, have not 
transformed themselves. 



**Title: Cambridge**
**Author: Maggie Scarf**
**Page number(s): 15**

15/The New Journal/April 12, 1970 
Cambridge 
continued from page 2 
if we'd spent the evening trying to 
.! communicate in a half-known language. 

Traditions, as I mentioned, are strong 
here; so is general respect for the law. 
While the judgments of the law may 
sometimes be questioned, the law itself 
is a majestic lady. She bears no resem· 
blance to that tarnished creature, her 
American cousin; neither has she had to 
withstand the same sort of attacks. 

What still exists here, where the ques-
• tions of conscience and law have not been 
so starkly raised, is what Hawthorne 
called "the general sentiment which 
gives law its vitality." Right and wrong 
are somehow less complicated; a police-
man's quiet: "Here, we can't have that," 
carries more force than the pistol com-
ing out of a cop's holster in New York .... 

Of Cambridge's 29 colleges, Churchill 
is the newest ( 1961 ); and therefore 
somewhat less dogmatic and formal in 
tone. (There are still colleges in the 
University which exlude women from 
High Table.) Nevertheless, dining at 
Churchill is a pretty formal affair: one 
marches into the high, mahogany pan-
elled Hall on the arm of one's host - my 
own husband can only bring me four 
times during the year; I must go as 
someone else's guest, and when I am 
1 
• 
asked, my husband is expected not to 
be present - part of a long black-robed 
r procession. Meanwhile, the several hun-
dred students present, all of them also in 
rustling black robes, have risen: we 
file past the rows of uplifted faces (and 
sotto voce comments), then stand behind 
our seats at the white, sparkling High 
Table. 

A great hush settles over the Hall: 
everyone looks toward the Master. 
''Benedictus, Benedictatum," he pro-
claims without enthusiasm. 

And with the Lord's blessing, we sit 
down to eat. 

Maggie Scarf is the wife of Yale Professor 
Herbert Scarf who is teaching at Cam-
bridge this year. 


APRIL THESIS SPECIAL! 
At Charlton Press only 
Get your thesis or manuscript xerox copied at 
Charlton Press and we'll paperback bind it for you 
for just 50¢ per book! 
charlton presst- ~ 
127 COLLEGE STREET· 
:E!:l 
(between College St. & Frontage Road) 
288 -DWIGHT STREET 
(near Broadway, corner Whalley Avenue) 
Available only at Charlton Press. A strong, 
handsome glue binding that's unusually sturdy yet 
lies almost flat when you read it. Now you can give 
your extra copies of that important p~per or ~h.e~is 
a look of professionalism- and dun.ng Apnl 1t s 
at half price! 

Yamaha 
It's a better machine 
from the best dealer 
Libby,s Sales & Service 
1098 Chapel St. 772-1112 



**Title: abscond with sound**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
abscond 
with 
sound 
Wander into a record store -
you probably 
won't believe all the records that you'll want. 
But they're too expensive. 
Perhaps we have an answer -the Sony-Superscope 
252 tape deck. With it you are ready to terrorize 
your friend's record collections. A copy of a stereo 
disk can be made for as I ittle as one fifth the cost of 
a record. And you won't have to flip between sides. 
The Sony-Superscope 252 is pretty close to one 
hundred dollars and David Dean Smith will 
guarantee it. (You won't have to ship it to 
god-knows-where if something breaks.) 
l et your friends buy records. 
david dean smith 
open until 9 thurs 
corner of elm and york



YOUR NEW DEALER IN 
THE NEW HAVEN AREA FOR 
NELKE 
MIDTOWN, LTD. 
M-G 
z •• I T I.H :a 
t;~~ 
3~~ 
~ ILAVL.A.I'«< 
JAGUAR 
138 Whalley Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut, 787-4217 
In the heart of automobile row 
"The crisis of the environment 
cannot wait another decade for answers." 



GARRETI DE BELL, ed., The Environmental Handbook; 
Prepared for the First National Environmental Teach-in 
$ .95 
PAUL EHRLICH, The Population Bomb 
.95 
WESLEY MARX, The Frail Ocean 
CHARLES F. HARRIS & JOHN A. WILLIAMS, ed., Amistad l; 
1.95 
Writings on Black History and Culture 
Yale Co-op 
Seventy Seven Broadway 

