Publication date: December 6, 1985
Volume: 18
Issue number: 3


**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Tony Reese
- Editor-in-Chief: Joyce Banerjee
- Business Manager: Lauren Rabin
- Executive Editor: Rich Blow
- Managing Editor: Anne Applebaum
- Designer: Beth Callaghan
- Production Manager: Margie Smith
- Photography Editor: Mark Fedors
- Associate Business Managers: Rob Lindeman, Barrie Seidenberg
- Associate Editors: Jay Carney, Melissa Turner, Tamar Lehrich, Dan Waterman
- Associate Designer: Maria Hong
- Associate Photography Editor: Carter Brooks
- Circulation Manager: Mike Sonnenblick
- Staff: Margaret Bauer, Katie Hazelwood, David Hoffman, Pearl Hu, Meredith Hyde, Paul Kihn, Patrick Santana, Hank Mansbach, Lori Sherman, Pam Thompson, Peter Zusi
- Members and Directors: Edward B. Bennett III, Henry C. Chauncey, Jr., Peter B. Cooper, Andy Court, Brooks Kelley, Michelle Press, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Friends: Anson M. Beard, Jr., Edward B. Bennett, Jr., Edward B. Bennett III, Blaire Bennett, Gerald Bruck, Jonathan M. Clark, Louise F. Cooper, Jerry and Rae Court, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, John Hersey, Brooks Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Andrew J. Kurneski, Jr., Lewis E. Lehrman, E. Nobles Lowe, Peter Neill, Julie Peters, Fairfax C. Randall, Nicholas X. Rizopoulos, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Dick and Debbie Sears, Richard Shields, Thomas Strong, Elizabeth Tate, Alex and Betsy Torello, Allen and Sarah Wardwell, Peter Yeager, Daniel Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Between the Vines - 
- The Other Side of Brunch - Tamar Lehrich
- In All Fairness - Jim Ledbetter
- Prisoner of the Times - Jay Carney
- Depths of Deception - Rich Blow
- Codes of Honor - Miles Kronby
- Final Words - 


**Title: The Other Side of Brunch**
**Author: Tamar Lehrich**
**Page number(s): 10**

Although most of us don't think about it, working in a Yale dining hall can mean more than washing dishes and mopping floors. As students struggle with the problems of serving and working with their peers, regular employees search for ways to deal with management and often thoughtless Yalies. By Tamar Lehrich.


**Title: In All Fairness**
**Author: Jim Ledbetter**
**Page number(s): 20**

Washington's newest watchdog group, Accuracy in Academia, claims it wants balance in the classroom. But a student who worked for the organization finds that, for AIA, balance may be more a matter of interpretation. By Jim Ledbetter.


**Title: Prisoner of the Times**
**Author: Jay Carney**
**Page number(s): 34**

On August 21, 1971 Black Panther George Jackson, along with three guards and two inmates, was killed while allegedly attempting to escape from San Quentin. Implicated in the attempt, Yale graduate Stephen Bingham fled the country only to return 13 years later to face a complex and turbulent history and five counts of murder. By Jay Carney.


**Title: Depths of Deception**
**Author: Rich Blow**
**Page number(s): 45**

General Dynamics, America's third largest defense contractor, has been mired in scandal for the past year, but the submarine manufacturer appears to have emerged unscathed. The General Dynamics case has proved how this country pays the exceedingly high cost of defense. By Rich Blow.


**Title: Codes of Honor**
**Author: Miles Kronby**

In his new novel Honorable Men, Louis Auchincloss explores the American elite's legacy of Puritanism. By Miles Kronby.


**Title: Final Words**
**Author:** 
**Page number(s): 47**

As he completes a distinguished tenure as University Chaplain, The Reverend John Vannorsdall urges the University community to consider fundamental questions about the values underlying its secular, twentieth-century nature.


**Title: Sound Effects**
**Author: Jen Fleissner**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NewsJournal 
Sound Effects 
Ten-year-olds sing along to Prince's 
"Darling Nikki," whose heroine is 
described as a "sex fiend." Their 
younger siblings, meanwhile, may 
learn about first love from bands like 
Motley Criie, who portray women as 
territory to be conquered. Certainly, 
rock music, with its often sexual or 
violent connotations, plays a part in 
the lives of many pre-teenagers. But do 
these uncensored lyrics really have a 
detrimental effect on the minds of 
young listeners? The Parents' Music 
Resource Center (PMRC), a lobbying 
group headquartered in Washington 
D.C., believes so. Two Yale research-
ers, however, disagree. Any affect 
lyrics have on teenagers may have little 
to do with records and tapes. Instead, 
studies made here provide a possible 
link between videos and aggressive 
behavior in children. 

"A lot of people have studied rock 
lyrics, and they haven't been able to 
find any effects at all- no effects on 
socialization, for instance," Dr. R oger 
Desmond, a visiting fellow of the Yale 
department of psychology, told The 
New 
York 
Timts. 
Desmond, 
who 
specializes in the relationship between 
children and the media, has completed 
several studies examining the influence 
of rock lyrics. He describes his work as 
the study of "how mass media operate 
as agents of socialization for young 
children." 

A study he conducted four years ago 
compared the perception of rock lyrics 
by institutionalized adolescents to non-
institutionalized ones. Children with 
criminal records are more likely to 
hear messages in the music that aren't 
really there, he determined. "They 
feel, for example, that 'The Doors are 
speaking to me.'" Such conclusions in-
dicate, then, that heeding lyrics l:on-
sidered offensive is only a manifesta-
4 The New Journal/December 6, 1985 
tion of violent adolescent behavior, not 
its cause. 

Desmond's findings are particularly 
significant in view of the recent con-
troversy involving PMRC, which ad-
vocates a rating system for records 
comparable to that imposed on films. 
Discs containing potentially offensive 
material, the group argues, should be 
stamped with an "X" to warn parents of 
their sexual or violent content. 

Dorothy Singer, co-director of the 
Yale Family Television Research and 
Consultation Center which studies the 
effects of television programming on 
the public, agrees with Desmond. 
"Kids are caught into the sound-the 
rhythm, the beat." Singer said. "Usual-
ly they're doing something else while 
listening to the music, like homework. 
They're not really paying attention to 
the lyrics." 

One reason for these attempts to 
curb rock lyrics may be the advent of 
music videos, which can take vague or 
unintelligible lyrics and transform 
them into something more graphic 
onscreen. Singer explained that the 
Center's 
content analyses 
studies 
count the number of gratuitous sexual 
or violent acts per video. Figures for 
such acts generally have been found to 
be quite high. 

Singer's studies on the effects of TV 
programming on young children have 
lead her to a grim conclusion: "There is 
a relationship between aggressive pro-
gramming and aggressive acts." 

Although Singer won't venture an 
opinion, perhaps music videos have 
harmful effects on young children. If 
this is the case, it would seem that the 
PMRC has attacked 
the wrong 
medium. So far, the group has failed to 
initiate successfully a national rating 
system on albums and tapes, despite 
the favorable conservative political 
climate. It just may be that scientific 
evidence is not on its side. 
- }en Fleissner


**Title: Down Under**
**Author: Peter Zusi**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

Down Under 
The dark, thickwalled buildings of this 
campus hold promises of morbid 
secrets: the ancient catacombs beneath 
the colleges, undiscovered corpses in 
the Sterling stacks, or voices echoing 
late at night in Commons. Sometimes 
reality is not so different. Enter Street 
Hall, descend the thin winding stairs, 
continue past the bathrooms, past the 
unused display cases and old filing 
cabinets, until you reach a Babylonian 
coffin. Turn to your right. You are 
now in the Yale University Art 
Gallery, facing the grave marker of 
John Trumbull, reknowned American 
painter and benefactor of Yale, who 
died in 1843. His bocfy is buried not 
far beneath your feet here. 

Why is Trumbull buried underneath 
the Gallery? He simply wanted to be. 
In 1831 Trumbull decided to donate a 
collection of 100 of his own paintings 
and miniatures to Yale, which was 
poore~; and in greater need of such art-
work than Harvard, his alma mater. 
His conditions, however, were that 
they be housed in a building of his own 
design, that he receive a $1000 annuity 
from the University, and that he be 
buried beneath the works after his 
death. Later that year the paintings 
moved into the completed Trumbull 
gallery, which stood on Old Campus. 
So did Trumbull's wife, who had died 
in 1824 and had been buried in New 
York. Thirteen years later Trumbull 
himself died and was buried next to his 
wife, underneath his paintings. But as 
the University evolved and the campus 
changed, the Trumbull collection 
moved around, and with it went the 
bodies of John and Sarah Trumbull-
to Street Hall in 1869 and to the Art 
Gallery in 1927. 

Still a central exhibit of the Gallery, 
the Trumbull collection receives many 
visitors. The tomb gets few. 
But 

--- Page 5 ---

Colon ial painter John Trumbull demanded to be a permanent fixture at Yale. 
Trumbull's wish has been fulfilled. 
"John Trumbull always wanted to be 
under his pictures," said Carolyn 
Rollins, coordinator of publications, 
sales and membership at the Art 
Gallery. Any future plans for the 
Trumbull collection will inevitably 
have to include the graves also: where 
the paintings go, the Trumbulls go. 


**Title: Diagnosing the Arms Race**
**Author: Kaly Schneebaum**
**Page number(s): 5**

Diagnosing the 
Arms Race 
-Peter Zusi 
"A 20-megaton nuclear warhead 
detonated over New Haven would 
destroy everything in a 
four-mile 
radius. Almost every survivor would be 
maimed, burned, or in shock. In time, 
they would develop new and virtually 
incurable ailments, such as st>vere 
radiation poisoning and reaction~ to 
contaminated food and water ... " 

So begins the New Haven "bomb 
run," one version of a horror story told 
around the country by members of 
Physicians for Social Responsibility 
(PSR). Founded in 1980 by former 
Yale Professor Robert Lifton and 20 
Yale Medical School (YMS) students, 
the New Haven· chapter now boasts 
about 500 members. Both the New 
Haven and national 
PSR were 
established under the auspices of their 
parent organization, International 
Physicians 
for the Prevention of 
Nuclear War, whose founders received 
the 1985 Nobel Peace Prize. 

The national organization, with 
65,000 members, comprises not only 
medical doctors, but medical students, 
health workers, and some laymen as 
well. It aims to educate the public 
about the medical consequences of 
nuclear war and thus tries to create an 
active public lobby against nuclear pro-
liferation. "There's nothing like bring-
ing the abstraction of nuclear war down 
to something very physical, something 
people can relate to," said Laura 
Kuckes, YMS '87, a 
member of 
PSR-New Haven's steering commit-
tee. "The 'bomb run' was our initial, 
and most effective, tactic." 

Yet with PSR's expansion over the 
past five years, initial momentum and 
effectiveness of the traditional "bomb 
run" approach dissipated. 
The 
organization's leaders realized that in 
order to remain effective PSR would 
have to do more than to tell nuclear 
horror stories. The emphasis of its 
argument 
has shifted 
away 
from 
medical grounding. Since 1983 PSR 
has stressed other aspects such as 
childrens' fear of nuclear attack as well 
as political issues of nuclear testing and 
"Star Wars." 

Reflecting this shift in the national 
organization's strategy, 
PSR-New 
H aven sponsored two political forums 
in September and October of this year. 
The first, held at the Yale Law School, 
was a symposium on the Comprehen-
sive Test Ban Treaty. The October 
forum centered on Star Wars. In addi-
tion, the New Haven chapter, as part 
of the Coalition for a Meaningful Sum-
mit, publicly demands that President 
Reagan abandon his long-standing op-
position to nuclear freeze and reverse 
the arms race. 

Controversy has arisen over the 
politicization of the group. "Once doc-
tors step out of the medical-effects 
realm, do they lose their credibility? 
Do they have to take off their white 
coats and talk as citizens and not as 
doctors?" Kuckes asked. Controversy, 
though, has not halted the group's ac-
tivity. Today, with the more politically-
oriented approach and the awarding of 
the Nobel P rize, PSR is cautiously op-
timistic about its future. Doug Nelson, 
YMS '87, 
a 
steering-committee 
member, said, "The symptoms of 
the arms race have been ominous in the 
past few years. PSR's message is more 
prominent. It's too early to predict a 
full recovery for us, but now the signs 
are good." 
- KaLy Schneebaum


**Title: The Other Side of Brunch**
**Author: Tamar Enrich**
**Page number(s): 6**

Between the Vines7 Tamar [enricn 
The Other Side of Brunch 
We've all done it, we all do it, and we'll 
all do it again. Come on, don't look so 
innocent, you know what I'm talking 
about. Remember today at lunch when 
in your tension and quest for expedi-
ency, you dribbled French dressing all 
over the salad bar? You ignored it, 
looking up at the witnesses contemp-
tuously, continuing to 
pile 
more 
cucumbers on your plate. As the din-
ing hall worker wiped up the mess, you 
nonchalantly moved away from the 
area, 
feeling 
both 
defensive 
and 
somewhat guilty. But you quickly 
forgot the incident. You sat down at 
your favorite table with a friend. Your 
contented thoughts moved like circles 
of smoke, until they lifted and disap-
peared 
into 
the rafters-leaving 
behind all 
responsibility 
for 
the 
messiness of spilled salad dressing, 
sticky floors, and dirty dishes. 

I entered a dining hall the other day, 
feeling grumpy and impatient, and 
flashed my cards at the woman behind 
the desk, not noticing or caring who 
she was. "Quiche. Mixed vegetables," I 
said to the servers, who remain faceless 
in my memory. I sat down, played 
with the salt, and created a series of 
hills on the table. Then I bussed my 
tray, oblivious to the signs requesting I 
throw away my napkins and styrofoam 
cups. Most of us who eat in dining 
halls forget the work involved in 
preparing our meals and cleaning our 
mess. We also forget the workers 
themselves. 

Dining halls may be the most unusual 
work-place at Yale. On the one hand, 
it is one of the only contexts where 
unspoken class 
tensions 
between 
6 The New JournaVDecember 6, 1985 
"Sometimes when I'm 
working on the 
serving-line, I feel as 
.though there's a wall 
between me and other 
students." 
students can be felt and seen. Students 
are literally put into the position of 
having to serve their peers. Moreover, 
because student dining hall workers 
receive the highest wage on campus, 
students on aid tend to occupy most 
dining hall jobs. 

Because of the 
economic and social differences which 
emerge once students put on their blue 
uniforms, workers often resent those 
whom they have to serve. "Sometimes 
when I'm working on the serving-line, 
I feel as though there's a wall between 
me and other students," said Betina 
Elias, PC '87. "There's sort of a 
worker-customer relationship. My 
contact with them stays in my mind, 
but for them I'm just the girl serving 
the green beans." 

At the same time, however, student 
workers find their relation to other 
workers hard to define. "We really 
don't have much in common with 
regular workers." Elias explained. 
"Our jobs are such a small part of our 
lives, while for them it's their whole 
day." The regular-workers work side 
by side with students who will earn a 
Yale d iploma at the end of four years. 
Meanwhile, some full-time employees 
remain stuck in the same position for 
decades. With this double set of con-
flicts, this student job differs from any 
other. 

From the outside, working in the 
dining hall seems appealing. Most 
workers would agree, and certainly a 
camaraderie develops among employ-
ees. However, the job also contains 
daily reminders of Y.ale's less-than-
democratic social structure. I once 
worked a brunch "floor shift," rumored 
to be the perfect job for those who are 
willing to interrupt their gossip ses-
sions with friends to do a oit of work. 
For about an hour, everything went as 
predicted. I sat in a carefully chosen 
corner talking to a friend, observing 
the eaters, casually watching the coffee 
level and the napkin supply, two of my 
top priorities. I knew that people were 
aware that I was a worker but that my 
presence didn't really register. I was in-
visible to most students. 

But then, hal.fway through the meal, 
the craziness began. As soon as I had 
brought out more boxes of Sptcial-K, 
someone alerted me to the fact that he 
could find no more Lift. Then the hut-
ter and the English muffins ran out 
simultaneously. "They can't expect us 
to eat this margarine, can they?" one 
student asked, horrified. After stand-
ing up for the next two hours and then 
sweeping and mopping the floor, I 
learned that the rumors concerning the 
ease .of the "floor shift" were mere fic-
tion. 

Students commonly believe dining 
hall employees are responsible for 



**Title: The Yale Dining Halls: A Tale of Two Worlds**
**Author: Tamar Lehrich**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
everything that goes wrong, much to 
the annoyance of the workers. When 
approached by a student who said, 
"This knife isn't clean," one worker 
meticulously cleaned it off with his own 
shirt. Then he handed it back to the 
dissatisfied student, saying, "No prob-
lem. Sir." 

Because of the daily complaints and 
tensions, some workers flee all student 
contact and head for the safety of the 
dish-room, which requires, I've heard, 
a very specific, highly-tuned tempera-
ment and skill. Not everyone can do it. 
For some, the pressure is just too in-
tense and the line of trays seems 
endless. For others, successful dish-
room performance is a physical im-
possibility. If you're too short, you 
can't reach everything. However, a 
select few thrive amidst the steam and 
water. Dave Carpenter, SM '86, has 
worked in the Berkeley dining hall for 
the past year. "I like to work in the 
dishroom. I listen to Miracle Legion or 
Gang of Four," Carpenter explained 
seriously. "It's an autonomous zone. I 
mean I don't have to deal with 
students, and I have a pretty good rap-
port with the cooks, depending on their 
moods." 

I heard of one student whose perfor-
mance was legendary- he could do it 
all with one hand. Yet even dish-room 
workers are not cut off from all student 
input. Last summer in Berkeley, a 
note was sent to the dishroom written 
in a maniacal hand that said, "Never 
serve this shit again." Somebody else 
once wrote, "This food would gag a 
vulture." 

As students struggle with the prob-
lems inherent in serving and working 
with peers, regular workers search for 
ways to deal with Yale and its students. 
Lisa Gavoni, wide-eyed, funny, and 
approachable, has worked in Berkeley 
as a desk-attendant for the past two 
years. Born in New Haven 18 years 
ago, Lisa explains that many workers 
have held the same impressions of and 
attitudes toward Yale for long over 20 
years. "A lot of people in New Haven 
just see big iron 
gates and tall 
buildings," she said, greeting most 
students by name as they passed her 
desk. "It is seen as a big, spooky place, 
one you'll never get to see. Yale owns 
three-quarters of New Haven and 
everybody knows that." 

Johnny Edwards, another Berkeley 
employee, has been a cook with the 
Yale dining hall system for the past 13 
years. In describing his situation with 
the Yale management, Edwards spoke 
with a sense of urgency. "Lots of 
workers feel they should be promoted," 
he 
said, 
his eyes 
flashing. 
"But 
sometimes it seems impossible." 

Edwards strongly advocates chan-
ging the current system and challeng-
ing the procedural standard. "Yale 
forces workers to take a written test to 
be promoted," Edwards continued, 
"but many of us were hired a long time 
before the test. I don't know. I don't 
think I will ever pass- it's far beyond 
my reach." He cannot quit because he 
does not have a document qualifying 
him to be a chef in the real world. In 
other words, Johnny Edwards can't get 
a job in a restaurant or anywhere else 
outside of Yale. 

Ed Huff, assistant director for the 
Yale College dining hall system, ap-
peared accommodating and casual as he 
coolly offered me coffee in his office on 
Elm Street. A black and white photo-
graph of a dining hall filled with smil-
ing Yale men-wearing dark suits and 
waiting to be served- hung over his 
desk. Huff does not see any inequities 
in 
the system as it now exists: 
"Management has requirements for 
each position, depending on someone's 
education and work experience." 

Although trying to approach the issues 
fairly, Huff is caught within the wheels 
of Yale's immense machinery. "The 
test is just one small part of a whole 
series of things, including perfor-
mance, appraisals, and adult-school at-
tendance." 

While listening to this man speak, I 
remembered the frustrated look on Ed-
wards's face when he told me he had no 
more options. Asked whether it is 
discriminatory to base advancement in 
blue-collar jobs on reading skills or 
quantity of education, 
Huff only 
answered, "Look, it's a very touchy 
subject among the workers. We have a 
couple of grievances on that right 
now." 

What about Yale's refusal to write 
recommendations? Huff hesitated. He 
looked down at his hands. "We just 
don't deal with the question about 
whether an employee is good, bad, or 
indifferent. Management doesn't want 
to get involved in that." 

The reasons for the tense relations 
between workers and management go 
beyond rules and figures. Discrimina-
tion, though seldom linked openly to 
the dining hall system, is a serious 
underground 
issue. 
One student-
worker said, "The cooks ask the guys to 
do everything. If a woman comes in 
and works a shift, she's hassled by 
them. It's not direct, just 'work-place' 
intimidation." One regular worker 
then asked if I had ever noticed how 
few whites worked in the dining halls. 
She explained that for decades she has 
watched whites enter the dining hall 
system, work there for a year or two, 
and then be promoted automatically to 
higher-paying physical plant or 
grounds 
maintenance jobs. 
Other 
employees feel even more strongly. 
"Management is racist and demoraliz-
ing," a long-time regular-worker ex-
pressed. "They don't realize that being 
nasty and over-demanding causes peo-
ple to do the bare necessity. They 
basically consider workers to be stupid 
children, and we become their pawns." 

Locked into one position at Yale with no 
options on the outside 

The resentments and anxieties that 
dining hall employees experience while 
working for Yale are also reflected in 
their relationships with both non-
working and working students. Desk-
attendants find themselves in a par-
ticularly ironic situation, for while they 
encounter every student in the college, 
they are the most routinely ignored. 
Yolanda Jackson, who has been a desk-
attendant for the past 10 years, has 
found her own solution: she knows 
how to put the fear of God into people. 
Because of her reputation, I was 
somewhat wary of her when we first 
spoke. We checked each other out. "I 
don't want to see my name in that arti-
cle," she warned, her eyebrows raised. 
Yet after talking several times, we both 
softened. I learned that she not only 
met her husband in Berkeley dining 
hall, but her mother also works in the 
system. She finally broke down, off-
handedly telling me, "Oh ... by the 
way, I don't really care if you include 
my name. Go ahead and quote me. It's 
okay." 

Although he understands that the 
main priority of student-workers is 
their education, it still bothers Johnny 
Edwards that they are not more open 
to the regular staff. Staring at the grey-
ing tiles of the kitchen wall, Edwards 
said, "Most students don't realize that 
we can be friends." Many of the full-
time employees are not very anxious to 
pick up relationships with students. 
They know that they may spend time 
getting to know someone who will 
leave the job three months later. Al-
though this happens often, it isn't 
always the case. Thad Bouchard, MC '87, worked in the Morse-Stiles dining 
halls for two years before he was confi-
dent in speaking with John, the pot 
scrubber. "One day he asked me, sort 
of dejectedly, 'You're a senior this year, 
aren't you?'" Bouchard said. "When I 
told him I was only a sophomore, his 
whole face lit up." 

Despite these conflicts, most dining 
hall workers said they don't want to 
find jobs outside of Yale. Student-
workers stay primarily because of the 
high wage. Most regular workers stay 
for union benefits or because they are 
not qualified for other types of employ-
ment. Yet people continue to work in 
the dining halls for other reasons as 
well. Since workers share common ex-
periences and a common disdain for 
the frequent thoughtlessness of people 
they encounter, very tight bonds often 
develop between them. "We're a very 
close-knit group," Jackson admitted. 
"The majority of the workers have 
been here a long time, and the students 
can be really pleasant." Then she 
raised an eyebrow skeptically. "But 
there are still days when nothing's set 
up for breakfast, because a student 
must leave early for a test." 

She smiled. "You learn to expect it." 

Rob Pierce, BK '86, student co-
ordinator at Berkeley, approached her 
desk. When asked how he'd change the 
current dining hall system if he were 
given the opportunity, Pierce was 
quiet for several moments before 
replying. "Well, if I were in charge of 
the world," he mused, looking at 
Yolanda, "the Co-op would be a real 
cooperative, 
and 
I 
would have 
everyone at Yale work in the dining 
hall for a while. Then maybe they 
wouldn't abuse us so much." Yolanda 
nodded in agreement. 

• 

Tamar Lehrich, a junior in Morse, is 
associate editor of TNJ.


**Title: In All Fairness**
**Author: Jim Ledbetter**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Professors to Be Monitored for L¢tism 
That Washington Post headline caught 
my eye on August 4, 1985. I read that a 
new group called 
Accuracy in 
Academia (AlA) planned to weed out 
"10,000 known Marxists" on American 
college campuses. Malcolm Lawrence, 
president of AlA, vowed to seek out and 
publicize "political bias baaed on in· 
correct information" in the classroom. 
The article- accompanied by a photo of 
a smiling Lawrence- named Bertell 
Oilman of New York University and 
filmmaker/instructor Saul Landau as 
examples of professors AlA would 
monitor. 


As a student, I found it hard to 
believe that there were that many 
Marxist professors. I also wondered 
how AlA would decide which courses to 
monitor. So the next day I called AlA; I 
managed to reach Lawrence at home. 
At first, he was evasive and reluctant to 
say too much. 
"How large is the organization? " I 
asked. 
"'We11 be appointing an executive 
director this week," he replied in his 
deep, authoritative voice. So far it was 
just him. 
"'Which campuses do you plan to 
monitor?" 
"'WelJ, we're not going to zero in on 
specific schools. 
We're waiting for 
students to come to us with reports." 
I told him that I was a senior at Yale 
and asked if they planned to be active 
on my campus. 
"You're a student?" he asked. "Would 
you be interested in being our Yale con· 
tact?" 
I was taken aback. Lawrence didn't 
ask whether I knew of any instances of 
Marxism, he didn't ask if I approved of 
the group, he didn't even ask about my 
political leanings. Not thinking it would 
amount to anything, I agreed and gave 
him my phone number and school ad· 
dress. Lawrence assured me someone 
would be in touch. For the next four 
months, I would be a liberal infiltrator 
of the New Right: I was a spy for Ac· 
curacy in Academia. 


AlA is a spinoff of a similar group, Ac· 
curacy in Media (AIM). Since 1969, 
AIM has targeted a purported liberal 
bias in American media. Working out 
of Washington, AIM uses its 11.7 
mi)}jon annual budget to monitor the 
press and television for slanted 
coverage. AIM President Reed Irvine 
has gained respectabiltity through his 
frequent appearances on ABC's 
Nightline and other television programs. 
Though best known for its two-hour 
rebuttal to Stanley Karnow's Emmy 1
award-winning Vietnam: A Television 
History, 
which AIM labelled "good 
propaganda for the communists," AIM 


on many fronts. They recentlr 
for example. that 
Fide~ 
~eover o( Cuba was greatly 
by Herbert Matthews of The New 
Times." And noting that polls 
American women to be more 
than men, AIM suggests that. 
explanation . . . is the 
among women of the Phil 
show." 
diacovered these biases, AIM 
asked itself about the ~;>rigin 
strong tilt. In August, they an 
nounced the answer: leftist acaaemia. 
AIM created a new arm to "end the 
brainwashing"-AJA.. The new ~up 
would "tackle the root 13{ the problem, 
the indoctrination of our future jour-
nalists and otqer members of qqr 
society." Voluntl!er students and senior 
citizens-who can take courses Cree of 
charge at manystate universities-were 
asked to report "problem courses." AlA 
recognized that "young, impreaaionable 
students" are reluctant to criticize a pro-
fessor who might Ounk them, so it 
promised t{) keep the identity of ita stu-
dent monitors secret. 


In the extensive media coverage 
s_i' A.IA sin~ August, the ~up has 
CJte(l a dozen or so "biased" professors. 
The first student report concerned Dr. 
Mark R eader, professor of political 
science at Arizona State University, 
who teaches an introductory survey 
course on ~litical ideologic.$. AfA's first 
newsletter \leaked to the press weeks 
before it was published) cijarges R~er 
with teaching only his own "obsessions: 
anti-nuclear propaganda and 
fringe economics." An anonymous stu-
dent ~so quoted Reader as saying that 
"the Soviet Union is no threat compared 
to the United States's imperial aggres-
sions. • (Reader denies saying this, 
though he claims if he did say it, he had 
every right to do so.) In ttempting (o 
substantiate the charge, AlA call¢d 
Reader 18 times, wrote hitn a registered 
letter, and contacted the chair of his 
department. AlA has also asked its sup-
porten to write letters asking ASU 
President J. Russell Nelson to change 
the •deceptive labeling" of Reader's 
course in th'e college catalog. 


It ia no accident that R<*ier is AlA's 
fli'St target; the campaigrl against him 
&gan before AlA was ~m. Matthew 
Scu.lzy, former editorials editor of the 
ASU Sla/4 Press, wrote a series of col-
umns last year criticizing R~s 
class 
and his •all-consuming dr~d of nuclear 
war." ScuUy, now graduat~, is national 
director of f-IA, a fact their newsletter 
failed to report. 


In addition to Scully, AIA has at-
tracted an impressive cast of characten, 
despite its short history. Their 
backgrounds cast doubt on the group's 
ability to promote "balance." Lawrence, 
60, whose presidency officially expired 
November 30, is a retired Foteign Ser-
vice officer who once served as a consul-
tant to the Department of Education 
during Reagan's first term. He is best 
known as author of a form letter p&lent• 
can send to 3Cbool boards requesting 
that 'parents review all ~vant mater' 
before teachen discuss over 35 issues 
with students. The broad range o 
topics includes abortion, drugs a,nd 
alcohol, 
evolution, 
sex education, 
"values clarification," "Eastern 
mysticism," diaries or personal jour-
nals, and nuclear policy. Since january, 
two million copies of the letter have 
been di$tributed by evangelist Pat 
Robertaon's 700 Club, the Moral Ma-
jority, and Phyllis Schlafly's Eagle 
Forum. 


Lawrence's replacement as president 
is John LeBoutillier ~ 31, an outspoken 
former congressman from Long Island. 
He is the author of HarvtR'd Ha~ 
America, a polemic against the leftism 
and decadence he saw at his alma 
mater. LeBoutillier's escapades during 
his one House term won him natiqnal 
attention: he once called 
fel1ow 
Republican Charles Percy a "wimp" and 
an "idiot," and labelled Speaker Tip 
O'Neill "big, fat, and out of control. • 
Toward the end of his unsuccessful1982 
campaign. he proposed constructing 
~g:like "polar ptisons" in Alaska for 


tactics included publishing a pamphlet 
number, and Csorba called me five 
In 
1980, 
LeBoutillier made 
a 
of Landau's "statements on socialism," 
days later. Again, there were no ques· 
$200,000 loan to his campaign. He 
and picketing the screening of his 
tions about my beliefs. 
claimed the sum came from his father's 
Castro documentary Fidtl. California 
Csorba was jubilant over response to 
estate, but the money was not listed in 
State Senator H.L. Richardson then 
the group. "In just five days, I've got 
his personal disclosure form filed before 
decided to investigate the state universi· 
people on 25 campuses," he bragged. 
the election. A Federal Election Com· 
ty's hiring practices, spurring counter· 
"I've been flooded with calls, and there 
m ittee (FEC) investigation determined 
protest that the state was interfering 
are two stacks of letters on my desk. 1 
that he and his mother (who made the 
with academic freedom. After Landau 
bet we'll have 100 or 200 campuses by 
actual contribution) had violated the 
and Csorba exchanged threats of 
this fall." 
Sl ,000 limit on campaign contribu· 
lawsuits, the controversy eventually 
"How should the campus chapter 
tions. In November 1983 they signed 
died down. 
work?" I asked. 
an FEC conciliation agreement, in 
In a recent issue of the conservative 
"We want you to go to classes in· 
which they agreed to pay a $7,000 fine, 
newsweekly 
Human 
Events, 
Csorba 
dependently and report back anything 
but denied "knowingly or willingly" 
outlined his vision of AlA's challenge. 
that sounds absurd or blatantly false. 
breaking the law. 
Academic Marxists "lie outright," he 
Later on we want to hook up with other 
During my tenure as an infiltrator, I 
wrote, because they "do not believe in a 
groups, like the College Republicans 
never got a chance to meet either 
higher being and have no Judeo· 
and Young Americans for Freedom. 
Lawrence or LeBoutillier. I did meet 
Christian moral framework." These 
(Csorba's Washington roommate, J. 
Scully, and I did meet the man who 
professors "believe in violent change 
Michael Waller, is national secretary 
really runs AlA: Laszlo •Les" Csorba over democratic change" and are "com· 
of YAF.] Then maybe later you could 
III. 
mined to the overthrow of the United 
meet on .a regular basis to establish 
Like Scully, Csorba was calling at· 
States 
government." Csorba called 
camaraderie." 
tention to leftist professors before AlA 
upon students to commit themselves to 
Feeling a little out of my league and 
was founded. And, like Scully, Csorba 
"academic excellence and scholarly ob· 
thinking he might already have con· 
graduated from college last spring. At jectivity" and "to monitor and expose 
tacted the Yale chapters of these group$ 
the University of California at Davis, 
these campus academic travesties." 
to check me out, I replied, "Well, I 
Csorba led a 
conservative group, 
Csorba was appointed executive direc· 
haven't been too involved with those 
Students for a Better America, in a pro· 
tor of AlA on August 15, 1985. 
groups." H e told me that was fine, it 
test 
against 
leftist 
filmmaker and 
Lawrence gave him my name and 
didn't matter. Then he asked me if 1
1d 
visiting instructor Saul Landau. Their 
encountered leftist professors at Yale . 



**Accuracy in Academia: A Visit to the Controversial Group**
**Author:  [Not specified in text]**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•sure, I think a lot of the professors 
are very liberal." 

This didn't surprise Csorba; in fact 
he said, "Yeah, because I have a list of 
over 1,000 radical, commie professors 
I've compiled over the last three years, 
and Yale seems to be one of the biggies. 
In fact, I can think of one off the top of 
my head." 

"'Oh, really?" I deadpanned. "Who's 
that?" 

He named Frederic Jameson, who I 
knew only as the author of Sartre: The 
Origins of a Style. I told Csorba I didn't 
know him, but I'd look into it. I promised to give him my campus phone 
number as soon as I knew it. 

I immediately called Yale to try and 
get a reaction from Jameson. But 
Jameson left Yale in 1983 to go to the 
University of California at Santa Cruz. 
publicly that AlA was giving students 
the names of professors to monitor, in 
effect creating its own reports of bias, 
would have compromised whatever 
legitimacy the group could hope to 
gain. It was then that I decided to go to 
Washington for a closer look. 

II 

On October 26, I visited AlA-after 
cutting my hair and donning a suit and 
tie. Accuracy in Academia occupies just 
one room in AIM's 12th floor K Street 
suite. (AIM also shares the suite with 
The Washington Inquirer, a D.C. weekly 
ultra-conservative newspaper. As far as 
I know, AIM has never checked the 
paper for "balance.") Csorba and I were 
alone in the office on a Saturday. With 
salmon Polo shirt and topsiders, Csorba 
looked out of place sitting behind the office desk. Scully, over six feet tall and 
athletically built, came in later. The atmosphere was casual, even playful; I 
sipped a Coke, and when Scully needed 
keys, Csorba tossed them across the office. 

On Csorba's wall hangs a framed 
calligraphic lament over the fall of 
Hungary in 1956. There are also personal endorsements from Senator Pete 
Wilson (R-California) and President 
Reagan. A large map of the United 
States dominates the wall across from 
his desk. Black-headed pins on the map 
mark each campus where AlA has a 
contact. Csorba smiled proudly as he 
showed me the pin marking Yale. 

Despite his cartographic practice, 
Csorba was 
surprised when 
I 
told him later that New Haven is north 
of New York, and he could not 
remember where Brown University was. 

Csorba gave me a full tour of the 
suite, handing me numerous AIM 
newsletters, articles on AlA, and copies 
of Freedom 
Fighter, 
a 
pro-contra 
newspaper put out by something called 
the Coalition for Democracy in Central 
America. Accuracy in Academia had 
taken out a quarter-page ad on page 
five, describing itself as "a nonprofit, 
non-partisan organization." We talked 
about the Reader case, about the 
various reactions to AlA, and about 
why I wanted to keep my activity secret, 
at least for the time being. 

In private, the directors of AlA do 
not talk about revolutionaries on the 
campus. Instead, they downplay the 
competence of their targets. "Really, 
these guys are a bunch of dumbbells; 
they're not that smart," Csorba told me 
earnestly. Scully was disgusted that 
"30 years after [William F. Buckley's] 
God and Man 
at 
Yale 
there 
are 
still the same hacks running around.'" 

He doesn't believe that there are many 
"thorough" Marxists teaching, "just a 
bunch of old fools who bore everybody 
with their own theories and only assign 
books written by people just like them." 

Csorba and Scully also talk about 
professors' "paranoid" reactions to AlA, 
though Csorba, too, may be a bit 
paranoid: he told me he tapes "[all this] 
The New Journal/December 6, 1985 13


---

**Title: AlA: A Critique**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
n d e p e n d e n 
vant 
garde 
clothing for women 
of modern mind 
914 whalley a ve. 
new haYen • 389-8704 
16 The New Journal/December 6, 1985 
AlA Executive Director Caorba labels questions over AlA's validity as resiatance from 
"paranoid" professors. 

One of AlA's major concerns is simply 
establishing the group's right to exist. 
Media coverage of AlA has questioned 
the validity of external interference with 
academic freedom. Csorba attributed 
this to "paranoid" professors resisting 
AlA's calls for balance. "In a year or two 
we'll just be a standing presence and 
people will accept what we're doing as 
legitimate," he said. "We're not going to 
go away." 

I wonder. So far, AlA has raised 
over $50,000, mostly from subscribers 
to the AIM newsletter. The group's an· 
nual budget is $162,000, including 10 
newsletters per year and staff fees. But 
Csorba told me that the newsletters 
would be sent to 40,000 people. Sub-
tracting staff fees from the budget, 
there is no way AlA can afford 400,000 
newsletters. They planned to charge 
non-students $25 a year for the news-
letter, but I doubt they'll get that many 
subscribers. Other financial backers 
can be found; AIM seems willing to 
support them for some time, and there 
is plenty of conservative foundation 
money to be had. 

But I don't know what AlA could 
spend that money on, except to raise 
more money and to tap into the New 
Right network. AlA claims to have 500 
representatives on 110 campuses, but 
that only means people who wrote in or 
called, and who haven't necessarily 
done any more spying than I have. At 
the rate reports have come in, there 
just isn't enough for a staff of 15 (AlA's 
initial projection for 1988) to do even if 
AlA could pay them. As it is, the job of 
AlA president is basically 
a 
figurehead, and Scully was brought in 
mainly for the Reader case. Which 
leaves Csorba, alone in his office, 
phoning professors 18 times. 

Simply put, AlA has so little to do 
because the target it seeks doesn't exist. 
Their model for the academic Marxist 
is Oilman, who has been quoted as 
saying his task "is to make more 
revolutionaries." No professor I spoke 
with thinks there are more than a 
handful of such academics. "There are


"In a year or two we'll 
just be a standing 
presence and people 
will accept what we're 
doing as legitimate. 
We're not going to go 
away." 

a few socialist faculty members," said 
David Apter, professor of economic 
and social development at Yale, "but I 
don't see them having much of an im-
pact, and it is absurd to think that they 
indoctrinate students." 

Elizabeth Mahan agrees. For three 
years, she was program coordinator 
for the Yale Center for International 
and Area Studies. She is also on Csor-
ba's target list, and I was told to "check 
her out." Now at the University of 
Connecticut, she was amused to find 
out that "I'm a threat to the social 
order." She said she has "never profess-
ed to be a Marxist" and that her 
teaching and writing "stand on their 
own. Very few of my colleagues," she 
said, "are so wedded to their own ideas 
that they cannot allow students to ex-
press their own." 

Like most senior faculty with whom 
I spoke, Mahan doesn't take AlA very 
seriously. She feels "more annoyed 
than threatened," and thinks the group 
will probably fade away. Commented 
another professor, "These things tend 
to break out in rashes, and they come 
and go." Academic groups, such as the 
Association of American University 
Professors, have denounced AlA as 
"reminiscent of McCarthy" and "an in-
tellectual goon squad." Others have 
charged that the press gave undue 
publicity- and legitimacy- to AlA by 
reporting their existence before they 
actually accused a professor of bias. 

Such groups insist that anyone is 

**Title: Accuracy in Academia**
**Author: Jim Ledbetter**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
with me in infiltrating the group; none 
would, citing the "harassment" and "in-
timidation" of Reader as one deterrent. 
("I'd like to, but I just don't have the 
time to deal with these twerps," said 
one professor). I also learned that 
untenured junior faculty members are 
particularly wary of AlA and that 
some graduate students- the most 
vulnerable scholars- have begun to 
suspect students in their sections as 
AlA representatives. Such suspicion 
affirms that AlA is harming the ex-
change of ideas essential to classroom 
learning. "I think we are having a chill-
ing effect," Csorba boasted to me. "I 
think we deter professors from saying 
what they used to say." 


AlA will probably not put any in-
dividual's job at risk. The only real 
threat they 
pose 
is to 
academic 
freedom. The professorial right to 
teach what one believes, to say what 
one chooses in a scholarly way, is hard-
earned. The idea that a student is in 
the classroom not to learn through in-
terpretation and debate, but to spy, 
may inhibit a professor from inter-
preting material with complete in-
tellectual honesty. The fear of being 
wrongly labelled a Castro supporter on 
the pages of The New York Times should 
not be part of a professor's job. Once 
the accusation is made, substantiated 
or not, the professor's reputation is 
already tarnished. He or she has no 
way to check the motives or respon-
sibility of this secret group. AlA wants 
professors to be accountable to the 
public; to whom will Accuracy in 
Academia be accountable? 

• 
Jim Ledbetter is a senior in Calhoun.


**Title: Prisoner of the Times**
**Author: Jay Carney**
**Page number(s): 21**

l 
I I 
I 
In the small, comfortable living room 
of an Upper East Side apartment, 
Stephen Bingham, '64, sat on the edge 
of an overstuffed chair, phone in one 
hand and pen in the other, leaning 
over an open briefcase and some loose 
papers spread out on the floor. A hand-
some man, about six feet tall, Bingham 
has deep-set eyes and full, wavy hair 
that is just a bit longer than conven-
tional for his generation. He is 43 now, 
and time has softened the lines of his 
face and streaked his hair with gray. 
After hanging up the phone he said, "I 
only flew in from California yesterday, 
so it's still just seven a.m. my time." He 
paused, 
shuffling through some 
papers, and then began to speak. "You 
know there are some things I can't talk 
about, that my lawyers don't want me 
to talk about now. I'd like to say it alJ, 
but I can't until the trial. There really 
isn't much I can add to what I said last 
night." 

The night before, in a plush mid-
town apartment, Bingham gave one of 
his "receptions," a gathering of his 
friends, friends of the tamily and 
others who came to hear his story and 
to consider his request for donations to 
his defense. T he elegant room on the 
54th floor gradually filled to 30 people. 
Bingham himself was there early, busy 
shaking hands and talking with people 
he either didn't know or hadn't seen in 
years: old friends of his from Milton 
Academy and Yale, all verging on mid-
dle age, and others, a full generation 
older, friends of Bingham's father, 
Alfred, '27. Wayne Batcheler, '64, 
who arranged Bingham's schedule for 
this East Coast trip, signaled the start of 
the talk. 

As Batcheler made a brief introduc-
tion, Bingham stood against a wall 
studying notes through reading glasses 
that seemed to age him another 10 
years. Glasses ofT, he came forward 
slowly, looking slightly uncomfortable 
in jacket and tie. He cleared his throat 
and lifted his eyes to the small seated 
crowd. "First I'd like to thank all of you 
"Had I stayed there 
would have been no 
fair trial, no bail, and 
I wouldn't have 
survived in the 
Califomia jails with 
those guards. I was 
acc~ed of killing 
three of their 
colleagues." 



**The Bingham Case**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Bingham and his lawyers are determined to show there are more plawible explanations than the one held by the prosecution 
for the events of August 21, 1971. 
for being here," Bingham said in a soft, 
steady, oddly high voice that often 
seemed on the verge of cracking. "I've 
been back now for a year and a half, 
and it has amazed me that after being 
gone for 13 years, so many friends and 
family and new friends have rallied to 
support me. I could not get a fair trial 
without this help." 

On July 9, 1984 Stephen Mitchell 
Bingham, member of a prominent 
Connecticut family, radical attorney of 
the sixties, surrendered to the Marin 
County, California sheriff after 13 
years in hiding. He has returned to 
face trial- and gain acquittal- on five 
counts of murder and one count of 
conspiracy to murder for his alleged in-
volvement in a riot and an escape at-
tempt at San Quentin prison on 
August 21, 1971. Bingham disap-
peared that day shortly after leaving 
San Quentin, where he had visited 
Black Panther George Jackson, the 
most celebrated and closely watched 
prisoner in the United States at the 
time. According to prison guards and 
22 The New Journal/December 6, 1985 
authorities, Jackson had finished his 
visit with Bingham and was returning 
to his cell in the Adjustment Center, 
the maximum security ward in San 
Quentin, when he suddenly produced 
a gun and two clips of bullets from his 
hair. A chaotic and bloody escape at-
tempt then ensued, leaving three 
guards and two white prisoners dead 
inside the Adjustment Center. Jackson 
himself was shot and killed by a tower 
guard as he sprinted across the prison 
yard. The next day the papers an-
nounced that Bingham was the prime 
suspect for smuggling the gun to 
Jackson. By the end of the week, the 
District Attorney of Marin County 
claimed he had "conclusive evidence" 
of Bingham's guilt. Fearing that he was 
the victim of a conspiracy to kill 
Jackson, that his political activism had 
biased the state against him and that he 
could not get a fair trial under those 
circumstances, Bingham fled prosecu-
tion and almost certainly left the coun-
try. 

Today, the Marin County DA still 
maintains that Bingham supplied the 
gun to Jackson, making him a co-
conspirator in an escape attempt that 
caused 
five deaths. 
Released on 
$300,000 bail, Bingham went through 
lengthy preliminary hearings last 
March. The presiding judge decided 
that the prosecution has enough cir-
cumstantial evidence to warrant a 
trial. In early January, Bingham will 
be tried in a state that does not dif-
ferentiate between murder and ac-
cessory to murder; if found guilty, he 
could go to prison for life. 

Since his reemergence, Bingham has 
hired three full-time attorneys and has 
mounted a fundraising campaign to 
defray his defense expenses. The DA 
has pledged to give the case the 
"Cadillac treatment," forcing Bingham 
to match that effort with comprehen-
sive jury studies and handwriting and 
ballistic experts. 

To 
raise 
funds, 
Bingham has scheduled numerous 
receptions like the one in New York 
during which he can explain his case 
and make an appeal for help. 
At 
his Manhattan 
reception 

Bingham 
stated simply and im-
mediately that he is innocent. He held 
notes in front of him, yet rarely re-
ferred to them, knowing by heart how 
to avoid self-incrimination or damage 
to his defense. Although he would later 
discuss the case against him, he began 
instead with who he had been 20 years 
ago, calling himself a representative of 
"a time period badly understood. I 
am," he said, "typical of many people 
who got caught up in the idealism and 
hope for positive change in the late fif-
ties and early sixties." 

Indeed, Bingham comes from a 
background that fostered many of the 
young liberal intellectuals and activists 
of that era. Along with their wealth, 
the Binghams of Connecticut have a 
long history of prominent missionaries 
and politicians. 
His great-great-
grandfather, Hiram Bingham I , was 
the first missionary in Hawaii. His 
grandfather, Hiram III, a conservative 
Republican governor and U.S. senator 
from Connecticut, also discovered the 
lost Incan city of Machu Picchu. 
Bingham's father, Alfred, however, 
broke from the family's conservative 
political past. Before serving as a Con-
necticut state senator, Alfred Bingham 
founded and edited in the thirties a 
left-of-New Deal magazine called Com-
mon Sense. 
The youngest of four 
children, Stephen Bingham went to 
Milton Academy and then to Yale, 
where he became executive editor of 
the Yale Daily News. 
His four years at Yale coincided with 
the nationwide growth of the civil 
rights movement, 
and Bingham 
worked as the Daily's civil rights 
reporter. In the fall of 1963 Bingham 
joined a group of Yale and Stanford 
students organized by Allard Lowen-
stein which went to Mississippi to work 
on a mock gubernatorial election for 
black candidate Aaron Henry. That 
"Whenever anybody 
ends up dead, you 
look at the situation 
and say, Well who 
was mos~ interested in 
his being killed?'" 
fall Bingham 
was arrested in 
Clarksdale, and following his gradua-
tion in 1964, while working with the 
Mississippi Summer Project, he was 
beaten up in the town of Durant. That 
summer the whole country learned 
about the South's violent resistance to 
change when the FBI found three ac-
tivists dead on the side of a road in 
N eshoba County, Mississippi. 

Yet in 1964, most civil rights ac-
tivists, led by Martin Luther King, Jr. 
and the Student Nonviolent Coor-
dinating Committee (SNCC), still 
believed that change could come from 
within the system through non-violent 
protest. As part of this movement, 
Bingham enrolled that fall in Boalt 
Hall Law School of the University of 
California at Berkeley. After marrying 
in 1965 he volunteered for the Peace 
Corps and spent an 
apparently 
frustrating year-and-a-half in Sierra 
Leone. He returned to law school at 
Berkeley two years later, perhaps less 
idealistic, but still determined to do his 
part for the movement on a smaller, 
more effective scale than in the Peace 
Corps. 

From 1967 to 1971, as fervent anti-
war demonstrations and the revolu-
tionary Black Power movement 
disrupted the Bay area, Bingham con-
tinued his quiet activism. 
While 
Bingham himself was involved ·in the 
causes of the time, he helped establish 
legal defense committees to assist 
students who had been harassed, 
beaten, or arrested during peaceful 
protests on campus. He also organized 
a project which brought together law 
and medical students to look after the 
health and safety of workers in the San 
Joaquin Valley. 

After 
taking the 
California bar exam in 1969 he settled 
in Oakland in a "collective-commune" 
with several other young lawyers (he 
was now divorced) and started work 
with the Berkeley Neighborhood Legal 
Service Program, concentrating on 
housing issues and landlord-tenant 
relationships among the poor. 

Although he adhered to a belief in 
peaceful activism, Bingham saw 
violence grow commonplace around 
him. He asserts, 
however, 
that 
chroniclers of the sixties have placed 
responsibility for the violence on ex-
tremist movements, ignoring or 
down playing the role of officially sanc-
tioned brutality. He cites Kent State, 
Jackson State, People's Park, and 
Neshoba County as examples of police 
violence against activists that led to un-
necessary death. 

By emphasizing the often unsavory 
role of the authorities, Bingham in-
troduces a main contention of his 
defense. The prosecution's case against 
him rests upon circumstantial evidence 
that suggests George Jackson could 
only have obtained a gun that after-
noon through Bingham, the last out-
sider with Jackson before the escape at-
tempt. But Bingham and his lawyers 
are determined to show that there are 
other possible 
explanations- more 
plausible than the one held by the pros-
ecution- for the events of that day at 
San Quentin. 

Was George Jackson trying to escape


**Title: Federal Express Advertisement**
**Author: Federal Express**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
'T 
OF 
T A GUARANTEE. 
~ETOSEND 
WITHOUT ONE. 
DON 
GIVE YOU ANY. 
t~IIVAinta • .rt the whole concept of overnight delivery 
the first place. 

Since then, we've spent millions of dollars 
developing our system to the point where we're 
the only air express company that offers these 
two guarantees. 

Next time, call Federal Express. . ') 
You have a lot riding on that package. 
Don't you think the company that's 
delivering it should too? 
FEDERAL EXPRESS 
WHY fOOL a•OUND WITH ANYONIILSI? 
OUrs. ... u-.. Gulde for details. Offer not applicable to package consolidators. 0 1985 Federal Express Corporation., 


**Title: The Case of Stephen Bingham**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

R)· sruce Eric 
(seated L to 
. 
d 
d his defense team · L toR): Wen 1J 
Stephen Bingh';;a~~rew Men~ 
(~ta;~:~·Rutberg. 
CoheJ~, Sf~, Gerald Schwan"""' ' 
Mornson, 
· 
Pamphlcta uaed in Bingham's fundraising drive 
Holding receptions to counter the "Cadillac treatment" 
26 The New Journal/December 6, 1985 
on August 21, 1971? Official reports of 
what happened that day seem to sug-
gest no other alternative. Convicted of 
a $71 robbery as a teenager, Jackson 
had spent 11 years in California 
prisons and was scheduled to go to trial 
once more, this time for murder, on 
August 23, 1971, just two days after 
his death. While in Soledad prison, he 
became known for his efforts at 
organizing black inmates against the 
institutionalized racism of the Califor-
nia prison system. On January 30, 
1970 three black inmates were killed by 
a prison sharpshooter during a "riot" in 
the Soledad prison yard. Blacks and 
whites had been put in1 the yard 
together, something never done in 
prisons because of the potential for 
interracial fighting. 

To many, 
Bingham included, this was a conscious 
effort to encourage a riot which would 
justify the firing of shots-and the 
deaths of three prisoners- in reestab-
lishing order. One of the three men 
killed was W.L. 
Nolen, another 
outspoken member of the prison 
reform movement and a close friend of 
Jackson. 

A week later, Jackson and two other 
black inmates, collectively dubbed the 
"Soledad brothers," were charged with 
throwing a white guard off a railing to 
his death, and transferred to San Quen-
tin to await trial. The Soledad killings 
were already drawing public attention 
when, in late 1970, a collection of 
Jackson's prison letters entitled Soledad 
Brother was published. The book, with 
an 
introduction by Jean Genet, 
brought Jackson international recogni-
tion as the leader-from-within of the · 
movement, 
the 
new 
cause 
adopted by both the Black Panthers 
and more moderate civil rights ac-
tivists. At the same time, Huey 
Newton, the leader of the Black Pan-
ther party who had just been released 


from prison, made Jackson his "field 
marshall," giving him theoretical con-
trol of the more militant, revolutionary 
wing of the party and increasing his 
public prominence. 

The Black Panther party was behind 
the rise of prison reform, a movement 
which took hold as news of civil rights 
activity and its gains infiltrated prison 
walls in the late sixties. At that time, 
Panther leaders Huey Newton, Bobby 
Seale, Eldridge Cleaver and, finally, 
George Jackson were either in prison, 
wanted by authorities or facing trial. 

On the inside, men like Newton and 
Jackson organized prisoners against 
the use of inhumane treatment and 
racial tension as means of control, por-
traying the black prisoner as a victim 
of the system. On the outside, sym-
pathetic lawyers were constantly 
visiting prisoners and successfully en-
couraging journalists and civil rights 
leaders to do the same. 

As a radical attorney working in the 
Bay area, Stephen Bingham was 
drawn into the prison movement 
around 1970. "I was not involved in 
the prison movement in any large 
degree, but was recruited for sparse 
work on a pro bono basis," Bingham 
said. "The National Lawyers Guild 
had a support network which, among 
other things, provided a minimal 
amount of legal help to the Panthers, 
particutarly those who were afraid of 
police raids on their offices and things 
like that. But my main work was legal 
services in Berkeley, and so it really 
was not the kind of thing that, other 
than in an almost symbolic way-just 
to give a little free help here and 
there-! got involved in." 

"However, I Juui visited George 
Jackson four or five times [over a seven 
month period] to discuss the filing of a 
federal civil rights suit charging in-
human conditions at the infamous San 
Alfred Bingham: the start of a family rebellion againet conservatism. 
Quentin Adjustment Center, the max-
imum security section which had 23 Y2 
hour lockup, neck chains and ankle 
chains, strip cells and use of tear gas." 

Evidence supports Bingham's claim 
that he visited San Quentin on August 
21 to discuss the civil suit and that he 
had no other business that day, legal or 
otherwise, withJackson: he had never 
been listed as the inmate's attorney of 
record, nor had he arranged permis-
sion prior to the visit to see Jackson. 

The prosecutor in Bingham's up-
coming trial, Assistant Marin County 
DA Terrence Boren, charges, 
however, that Bingham and Jackson 
wer~ co-conspirators in the plan to 
escape. Yet he apparently has made no 
effort to prove the existence of a rela-
tionship 
between 
Bingham and 
Jackson nor between Bingham and the 
Black Panthers that explains 
Bingham's involvement in such a plan. 

Instead, the state bases its case upon 
the circumstantial evidence. Because 
Bingham was the last visitor to see 
Jackson alive, because, according to 
prison authorities, the gun "could not 
have come from the guards" and it 
"could not have come from the prison," 
and because, according to the guards, 
Jackson 
was 
strip-searched before 
entering the visiting room and the gun 
was discovered during the strip-search 
after his visit, the DA maintains that 
"there was no other wa'/' Jackson could 
have gotten the gun. 

The state does have other evidence 
to use against Bingham. First, a letter 
said to have been discovered by a dry 
cleaner in pants belonging to Jimmy 
Carr, a close friend of J ackson, was 
The New journaVDecember 6, 1985 '27 



**Title: Suggesting more plausible explanations than the prosecution's for the events of August 21, 1971**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"The only good thing 
that happened all day 
is that we got George 
Jackson. Killed him. 
Shot him in the head." 
turned over to the FBI. The letter con-
tains an exchange of messages between 
Carr and J ackson about the possibilty 
of J ackson's escape from San Quentin. 
But, as Bingham pointed out in his 
statement upon his return from hiding, 
"California's leading documents ex-
aminer later testified that the portion 
of the message supposedly written by 
Carr was not in his handwriting." 
Then there is also the testimony of a 
woman who met a young man named 
"Tony" in a singles bar in San Fran-
cisco the night after Jackson's escape 
attempt. The man mentioned that he 
was from the East Coast and had done 
something that "had ruined his life." 
And, in an illegal search of Jackson's 
files after his death, authorities found 
an erased note written on the back of 
an envelope which had once read, 
"Take the bullets out of the bag. Hurry 
and give me the piece in the bag. Keep 
the bullets." No evidence exists con-
necting Bingham to this message. I t 
was found in J ackson's cell, not on his 
body, meaning that, if the note did 
have any link to Bingham's visit, 
J ackson had taken the time after he 
began his escape attempt to hide it 
in his cell. Moreover, if it were ad-
dressed to Bingham, why did it say 
"keep the bullets" if he supposedly 
smuggled two clips of bullets in to 
Jackson along with the gun and wig? 


The official account of the escape at-
tempt finally emerged after a week of 
false starts and conflicting stories. 
Even the simple detail of the type of 
gun George Jackson was said to have 
used changed three times during that 
week, ranging from a "tiny gun with 
the grips removed" to the eight-inch 
long, nine-millimeter Astra automatic 
described in the final report. The 
Astra's serial number had not been 
completely filed off, 
conveniently 
allowing authorities to trace the gun to 
the Black Panthers. Six days before the 
attempt, however, the police had ar-
rested a Panther and confiscated an 
Astra, suggesting that the 
police 
themselves may have previously had 
the gun supposedly found on Jackson's 
body. 
Was it the same gun? If so, as a con-
fiscated weapon it could only have 
reached Jackson from 
within 
the 
prison, most likely through a guard, 
not from the outside. H ow could a 
visitor like Bingham smuggle such a 
weapon into San Quentin without 
detection? The state's own witnesses


The question of Bingham's guilt rests on more than the physical poa1ibilities of 1muggling a weapon into San Quentin. 

have said in the pre-trial hearings that 
Bingham and his folder 
passed 
smoothly through the metal detector 
and that the tape recorder which sup-
posedly contained the gun and clips 
were routinely inspected. Moreover, 
could a gun the size of a eight-inch 
Astra plus two clips be concealed in-
conspicuously inside of a 
tape 
recorder? Again in the pre-trial hear-
ings, the guard who had been on duty 
at the visitors' desk, said that, yes, the 
tape recorder he had inspected was 
large enough to hold a gun that size, 
but added, "I'm not saying there was a 
gun." 


Allowing that Bingham's tape 
recorder contained a gun, the question 
remains how Jackson, once he had 
it, managed to conceal the weapon 
during the escorted 50-yard walk from 
his visiting room back to the Adjust-
ment Center, where it is said to have 
been discovered. The prosecution 
asserts that Jackson hid the large gun 
and bullets under a flimsy afro wig not 
found by guards until August 24, three 
days after a thorough search of the Ad-
justment Center. 


The question of Bingham's guilt 
rests on more than the physical 
possibilities of smuggling a weapon in-
to San Quentin. Although accused of 
concealing the gun and bullets inside a 
tape recorder, he did not bring a tape 
recorder with him. According to state's 
witnesses, Bingham and his folder had 
already been cleared when the guard 
on duty asked him if he was taking 
a tape recorder. After Bingham replied 
that he had not brought one, a woman 
awaiting permission to visit jackson of-
fered 
him 
hers, 
which 
he 
took. 
Therefore, the tape recorder and case 
may have been brought into the 
prison, not by Bingham, but by 
another visitor, Vanita Anderson, a 
23-year-old woman with close ties to 
the Panthers. In the upcoming trial the 
prosecution may name Anderson as a 
co-conspirator with Bingham and 
Jackson, but she has not been charged 
with anything. In fact, in the interven-
ing 14 years, state investigators have 
never made a serious effort to question 
her, let alone arrest her. T he only ex-
planation for these actions is either that 
authorities knew Anderson was not 
guilty (but how, then, could Bingham 
be guilty?) and consequently did not 
interrogate her, or that Anderson 
herself had been working with the 
authorities as an infiltrator into the 
Black Panthers. 


Could the flaws and inaccuracies in the 
prosecution's case have resulted from a 
hurried attempt to cover up more than 
a foiled prison break-out? With the 
prison movement at its peak and 
Jackson a celebrity, the entire Califor-
nia State prison system would have 
been on trial. Jackson's best hope for 
freedom lay with the legal system, not 
with a suicidal attempt at escape. 
"Whenever anybody ends up dead, 
you look at the situation and say, 'Well 
who was most interested in his being 
killed?"' said Kathleen Cleaver, one-
time Black Panther and former wife of 
Panther leader, Eldridge Cleaver, who 
was an inmate in the Adjustment 
Center during the sixties. "Inside San 
Quentin, there are any number of peo-
ple, in particular guards, who could 
have had it in for him U ackson] for any 
length of time. 
"It is a very violent environment in 
San Quentin, and the prison 
authorities would provoke inc~dents in 


**Title: The Case of William Bingham**
**Author: Jay Gamey**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
which prisoners, in particular black 
prisoners 
who 
they considered 
troublemakers, ended up dead. That's 
one of the methods of prison control 
and 
intimidation used, 
so 
why 
wouldn't it be used in the case of 
George Jackson?" 

In fact, Warden Jim Park of San 
Quentin was quoted on August 21 as 
saying, "The only good thing that hap-
pened all day is that we got George 
J ackson. Killed him. Shot him in the 
head." Cleaver, now a second-year stu-
dent at Yale Law School, believes that 
J ackson, as a well-known bla~k revolu-
tionary, frightened authorities with the 
attention he drew to prison conditions. 
"The fact that he ends up dead in San 
Quentin two days before he was 
scheduled to go to trial, a public trial 
on a case from which he probably 
would have been acquitted- it's clear-
ly not George Jackson who wanted to 
die that day," Cleaver said. 

Cleaver's knowledge of San Quentin 
and the 
possibility of smuggling 
weapons into the prison contradicts the 
state's assertion that Jackson could 
have gotten the gun only through 
Bingham. She remembers that when 
her husband was in San Quentin, the 
most unlikely and risky way to get a 
gun was from a visitor. Instead, "cor-
ruptible guards" were the best sources 
of contraband. 

If the gun did come from the inside, 
if officials or guards did conspire to kill 
Jackson for fear of his activism, then 
Bingham may have been enveloped 
unknowingly by a cover-up. He was, 
as a California radical attorney, an 
easy and advantageous target. "Why 
does an innocent man flee?" Bingham 
asked the group at the New York 
reception. 

"Those of you 
remember the sixties know that it was a 
different time than now, a time when 
government agencies persecuted 
groups and individuals who were 
working for change. 

"The California D epartment of Cor-
rections was concerned about the role 
of lawyers in prison reform. The Uhler 
Commission set up by Ed 'Meese 
reported that lawyers were fomenting 
rebellion. The FBI outrageously 
harassed the National Lawyers Guild. 
Attorneys were the outside agitators. 
We were the catalysts for getting the 
word out." Bingham believes that he 
became the convenient scapegoat for a 
state government determined to dis-
credit activist lawyers. During an in-
terview on August 21, Warden Park 
had said, "You can. lay some of the 
blame for these six deaths at the 
doorstep of some of these radical at-
torneys who come in here and en-
courage the men [prisoners] to do this 
sort of thing." 

After discovering that "the entire 
focus of all news reports was on me," 
Bingham decided to lay low. Then, 
when it was reported that the DA had 
"conclusive evidence" against him, 
he decided to flee. "Had I stayed," 
Bingham said, "there would have been 
no fair trial, no bail, and I wouldn't 
have survived in the California jails 
with those guards. I was accused of 
killing three of their colleagues." 

Bingham provides few details about 
the 13 years he spent in hiding, saying 
only that he learned to work in con-
struction, continued his political ac-
tivism,and lived with a woman for five 
years whom he has since married. He has 
returned because he believe~ , today he 
can receive a just trial. "Things are dif-
ferent now," he explained. "The at-
titude people have toward state and na-
tional governments 
has 
changed. 
Watergate created a climate in which 
people accepted the idea that govern-
ment isn't always ethical and that at 
times, especially in the sixties and early 
seventies, it engaged in illegal and im-
moral practices in trying to discredit 
those who have been actively working 
for change." Although confident he will 
be acquitted, he does not and cannot 
disregard the state's efforts to convict 
him. 

After the reception was over and most 
people had gone, Wayne Batcheler 
led Bingham and his father out onto 
the terrace. From 54 stories high, the 
view of Manhattan on the clear, 
unusually warm November night was 
startling. Bingham pointed to the 
Chrysler building. "Which one is 
that?" he asked. Batcheler !'lnswered 
and then named some of the other im-
pressive towers nearby. Like a visitor 
seeing the skyline for the first time, or 
perhaps like someone who had been 
away for so long he had forgotten its 
beauty, Bingham continued for a mo-
ment to gaze out at the city. In the next 
few days he would give more recep-
tions in New York, then on to Boston, 
and finally back to California where he 
would continue raising money until 
J anuary 7, when his trial begins. The 
jury will have to decide if Bingham is 
guilty of five murders. Fourteen years 
have elapsed since that day in San 
Quentin, and it will be up to Bingham 
and his lawyers to place the events of 
August 21, 1971 into the context of an 
era that, for some, has grown faded in 
memory. Whatever the outcome of the 
trial, the mystery surrounding George 
J ackson's death will probably not be 
resolved. "People want to know, if I 
didn't do it, then who did?" Bingham 
said. "But it's not like Perry Mason. 
The tragedy of this case is that what 
really happened that day may never be 
known." 


**Title: Depths of Deception**
**Author: Rich Blow**
**Page number(s): 35-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Depths of Deception 
Rich Blow 
Perhaps the only 
problem with the 
Trident is that only 
one company in the 
United States has the 
facilities to build it: 
G eneral D ynamics. 
The Trid ent Nevada, 
l a u nch e d September H, 1985 
" We see a new day dawning." 
On September 23, 1985, United States 
Senator Chris Dodd and Congressman 
Sam Gejdenson, both Connecticut 
Democrats, led a special, one-time-
only tour through the highly-classified 
Electric Boat shipyard in Groton, Con-
necticut. Among the visitors were 
Sc:nator 
Sam Nunn (0-Georgia), 
mmority leader of the Senate Armed 
Services Committee, Senator James 
Exxon (D-Nebraska), and Senator Jeff 
Bingaman (0-New Mexico). 
Dodd and Gejdenson had brought 
them to see the gigantic shipyard and 
its imposing creation, the Trident 
nuclear submarine. The senators had 
already heard a lot about the yard, not 
much of it good. The Connecticut 
politicians wanted their guests to like 
what they saw. After months of scandal 
and embarrassing political investiga-
tions, Electric Boat (EB) could use 
some good P R . 

The visitors were impressed. "There 
is no more important defense construc-
tion in the whole free world," Exxon 
said at a press conference. The politi-
cians posed for pictures. "We believe 
we see a new day dawning," said a 
beaming Gejdenson. 

The showcase of the tour was clearly 
the Trident, EB's most famous pro-
duct. At 560 feet, the submarine is 
almost as long as two football fields end 
to end. It can carry up to 24 nuclear 
sea-launched cruise missiles. The sub's 
four torpedo tubes fire the Mark 48 
torpedo with unerring accuracy. With 
a crew of 154, the Trident can cruise 
the world's oceans for over three 
months without surfacing. Military ex-
perts consider it the most important 
element in this country's air-land-sea 
military triad. 

Perhaps the only problem with the 
Trident is that just one company in the 
United States has the facilities to 
build it: General Dynamics (GO), the 
owner of the Electric Boat shipyard. 
GO was the third largest defense con-
tractor in 1984, with six billion dollars 
in revenue'<,'tnd is the only contractor 
supplying major weapons to all three 
branches of the Armed Services: M 1 
tanks for the Army, F-16 jets for the 
Air Force and, of course, the Tridents. 
The Navy has purchased 11 Tridents 
from GO at about $1.7 billion each, 
making the submarine the nation's 
most expensive weapon. 

But for the past year, General 
Dynamics has 
been 
beseiged 
by 
troubling 
revelations 
about ex-
pense fraud, illegal gratuities, stock 
manipulation, and more. If military 
reformers had needed evidence of the 
power and influence of defense con-
tractors, the General Dynamics case 
gave it to them. If the Pentagon had 
needed proof of defense fraud, that was 
there too. And if members of Congress 
had needed to be reminded of the 
"revolving door' from government to 
big business, they didn't have to look 
far into General Dynamics. 

Yet after all had been said and done, 
General Dynamics got away with it. A 
year of government uproar over 
"waste, fraud and abuse," and GO's 
earnings are increasing, its stock is 
strong, and in August the company 
was awarded a 
con.tract to build 
another Trident. 

Everyone has heard stories of 
military rip-offs-$500 hammers, $700 
coffeepots- the list could go on almost 
indefinitely. But such stories only hint 
at the greater flaws in defense spend-
ing; long after they have faded from 
headlines, deeper, more fundamental 
problems remain. Why is it that the 
scandals come and go but the roots of 
the corruption linger on? The General 
Dynamics scandal provides many of 
the answers. 

GD is nearly a century old, and an ex-
pose of the company could probably 
begin before the First World War. But 
perhaps the easiest place to start is with 
an aristocratic Greek millionaire 
named P. Takis Veliotis and a dog 
named Fursten. 

Aggressive, arrogant Takis Veliotis 
managed the Electric Boat shipyard 
from 1976-1981. Veliotis was widely 
credited with bringing an overdue, 
overbudget submarine-building pro-
gram back on course. After he became 
an 
executive 
vice-president, 
word 
among company insiders placed 
Veliotis as heir apparent to GD Chair-
man David Lewis. 

But in 1983, Veliotis suddenly 
resigned from GD and returned to his 
homeland of Greece, saying only that 
he had to tend a family estate rumored 
to be worth hundreds of millions of 
dollars. Shortly after his return, the 
Justice Department indicted Veliotis, 
claiming that he had accepted $1.3 
million in kickbacks from an Electric 
Boat subcontractor. 

In Greece, American law has no 
power over Veliotis. Nonetheless, he 
still has millions in assets tied up in this 
country and is unable to leave Greece 
for fear of arrest. Perhaps that explains 
why in January 1984, Veloitis in-
formed Tile Washington Post that he 
wanted to make a deal with the Justice 
Department: in exchange for immuni-
ty, he would give them tapes and 
documents proving fraud at General 
Dynamics. Despite its reluctance to 
listen to a fugitive, the Department 
agreed to hear Veliotis out, choosing to 
decide afterwards about his immunity. 

A few months later, the trut~ came out 
about Fursten the dog. 

Fursten belonged to a GD vice-
president fond enough of his pet to 
bring it on business trips. During one 
conference at Kiawah Island resort in 
.South Carolina, Fursten's owner had 
to board the dog at a kennel, the Silver 
Maple Farm. Kennel rent was $155, 
apparently more than 
the 
vice-
!" president wanted to pay. So he claimed 
8 Fursten as a business expense and put 
the bill on the Navy's tab. But when 
Veliotis started talking, 
government found out about Fursten. 
Fursten's bill, it turned out, was only 
one of thousands of illegitimate ex-
penses GD (and Electric Boat in par-
ticular) had charged to the govern-
ment. Among some of the most 
egregious items: $1'8,650 for country 
club memberships; $15,705 for golf 
shirts and caps; $251,000 for public 
relations dinners; $300,301 for com-
pany promotions, 
and amazingly 
enough, $15,000 for the Grace Com-
mission on Waste and Fraud in 
Government. The grand total was 
about $250 million. 

"If it weren't for Veliotis and the 
subsequent publicity, it's hard to im-
agine that any of that money would 
have been disallowed," says Richard 



**Title: Launching the Trident**
**Author: The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Launching the Trident USS Hyman G . Rickover, named for the Navy admiral who masterminded the Navy's sub building program 
In 1985, General Dynamics was fined $676,000 for giving Rickover nearly $60,000 in illegal gratuities. 
The New Journal/December 6, 1985 37 


**Title: General Dynamics Scandal**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

Kaufman, general council to Congress' 
Joint Economic Committee. Kaufman 
has been investigating the case for 
Wisconsin Senator William Proxmire, 
a Democrat with a reputation for bat-
tling government waste. 
Colonel Robert O'Brien, deputy 
assistant secretary of defense, 
disagrees with Kaufman. "Our in-
vestigators were on these things before 
Congress," O'Brien claims. "Congress 
just made them public." 
In this case, the fact that the Pen-
tagon was auditing GO's claims proves 
nothing about Pentagon knowledge of 
their fraudulence. Pentagon auditors 
challenge only a small percentage of 
expense claims, and even if a claim is 
challenged, studies show there is about 
a 50-50 chance it will eventually be 
paid. 
It took the investigations of Chair-
man of the House Energy and Com-
merce Committee John Dingle 
(D-Michigan) and Senator Proxmire 
to sting the Pentagon into action. Both 
politicians held Congressional hearings 
on the case and spoke out in the press, 
embarrassing the company and the 
Pentagon. 
Pressun..d mto action, the Pentagon 
fought against its critics and apparent-
ly penalized GO for its financial 
maneuvers. In March, Secretary of 
Defense Caspar Weinberger an-
nounced 
he 
was suspending $40 
million in payments to GD for 30 days. 
Weinberger also stated that all defense 
contractors would now have to swear 
to the legitimacy of expense claims 
under penalty of perjury. 
Then in May, Navy Secretary John 
c: 
Lehman announced that the Navy 
would withhold the awarding of any 
new contracts to two GD divisions, 
Electric Boat in Groton and the 
Pomona missile factory in Los 
Angeles. General Dynamics was rife 
with "a pervasive corporate attitude 
that we find inappropriate to the public 
trust," Lehman pronounced. 
Lehman established three conditions 
the company had to meet before he 
would consider lifting the suspension. 
According to Pentagon spokesman 
Lieutenant Max Allen, "General 
Dynamics had to establish and enforce 
a rigorous code of ethics for •all com-
pany officers and employees. Second, 
they had to resubmit and certify all 
outstanding overhead proposals, and, 
third, they had to negotiate those pro-
posals in good faith." 
For its part, once GD realized the 
.2 scandal would not go away, the com-
~ pany acted quickly to cut its losses. 
0 First came an announcement that GD 
~ was withdrawing $23 million in ex-
~ pense claims. Then David Lewis, GD 
l; chairman, announced that he would 
1 resign his position by the beginning of 
~ 1986. Few doubted that he was a 
casualty of the scandal. From all ap-
f pearances, General Dynamics was in 
8 trouble. 
Three months later, the Navy held 
another news conference. The crisis 
was over. It was lifting its ban on new 
contracts to GD. "There was no pat-
tern of corruption," announced Everett 
Pyatt, assistant secretary of the Navy 
for logistics and shipbuilding. The 
Navy proudly asserted that it had com-
bed 
through 97 million expense 
vouchers in 90 days. GD would have to 
lower its expense claims by $55 
million. 

The launching of the fast-attack submarine Providence, August 4, 1984 
Within hours after the suspension 
was lifted, the Navy awarded GD a 
Electric Boat had the highest number of Illegitimate expenses of any GD division. 
38 
New ournal/December 6 1985 


$616 million contract to begin con-
struction on the 12th Trident. As far as 
the Navy was concerned, everything 
was back to normal. 
Others following the case weren't 
convinced. Dingle and Proxmire in 
particular charged that the Navy had 
done nothing to punish the company 
seriously. 
By cracking down on 
General Dynamics, they argued, the 
Pentagon could have set an example 
for the entire defense industry. But no 
one was sure how General Dynamics 
had convinced the Navy to be so 
reasonable. 
General Dynamics certainly isn't 
telling. Company strategy throughout 
the investigations has been remarkably 
like that of their most famous product, 
the submarine: dive down silently 
underneath the turbulence and hope 
that when you come up again, the 
danger "has passed. 
Bjll 
Pedace, 
director of public affairs at Electric 
Boat, politely refused to be inter-
;,;iewed. Pedace would only say, "It's 
company policy not to give 
interviews." Or as another GD official 
put it, "We don't need another snake in 
the pit." 
Still, company critics have con-
tinued their digginr , and what they 
have discovert>d 
is alarming: 
the 
Navy's suspension had literally no ef-
fect on GD's economic well-being. 
"The only consequence the Navy's 
actions have had is the publicity 
associated with them," Proxmire says. 
"I don't think that would bother a firm 
like GD very much. They didn't lose 
any contracts, and they're right back in 
business in a big way." 
"General Dynamics laughed all the 
way to the bank," adds Pete Stockton, 
who investigated the company for 
Congressman Dingle. "They may have 
lost somewhere close to $100 million 
worth of overhead when we forced 
P . Takis Veliotis: the Greek millionaire who exposed the General Dynamics fraud 
is stiU an outlaw in this country. 
them to retract their claims. But in the 
whole scheme of things at GD, that 
isn't that much. The suspension they 
had during that time, and the actions 
taken by Lehman- that's not going to 
hurt General Dynamics." 
Logically, it would be in the Navy's 
best interest to crack down hard on 
GD. Here was a golden opportunity to 
strike back against a greedy contractor 
caught with its hand in the till. A 
crackdown would send a warning 
signal to other contractors and a 
welcome signal to the American public 
that the Navy was fighting defense 
fraud. So why did the Navy let this one 
get away? 
The answer has a lot to do with the 
symbiotic relationships the Pentagon 
cultivates with all of its contractors, the 
you-scratch-my-back-1'11-scratch-yours 
friendships. "They use each other to in-
crease the budget and to get the 
weapons that they want," Stoc_kton 
says. "After a while, the relationship is . 
so tight that you feel, hey, maybe this 
is an aberration, we can rationalize 
that. But we're not really ·going to 
screw ·our friends to the wall and ac-
tually hurt them economically." 
"The Navy can send two messages," 
Senate Investigator Kaufman ex-
plains. "Navy officials could indicate 
to the company that they've been em-
barrassed, and they don't expect that to 
happen again. Or they could pass 
along that this is just a couple of 
isolated cases blown out of proportion, 
and they're not going to allow some 
wild congressional committees to drive 
a wedge between them and their most
The New JournaVDecember 6, 1985 39 



**Title: The General Dynamics Scandal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"The major contractors have these services by 
the balls," Stockton says. "The services 
supposedly have nowhere else to go for their 
weapons." 
valuable contractors. And it's hard to 
tell which way they're leaning." 

Of course, Pentagon officials are not 
the only ones reluctar;lt to crack down 
on a defense contractor. Many con-
gressmen and senators are similarly in-
clined. They may have a defense com-
pany in their district- and defense 
companies 
are 
traditionally large 
employers-or they may rely on cam-
paign contributions from contractors 
around election time. 

"The contractors will do a lot to in-
fluence politicians," admits one Con-
gressional aide. "They'll give contribu-
tions, do favors, take people up in their 
airplanes- stroking them. They really 
get their hooks in these guys, especially 
the congressmen, who have to get 
elected every two years. The represen-
tatives all want to cut defense until it 
comes to their district and then they 
say, 'Oh shit, we can't do that.' But the 
contractors, they lean in· on these 
senators and representatives, and they 
give in every time." 

In this case, the congressman getting 
leaned on is Sam Gejdenson; Electric 
40 The New Tournai/December 6. 1985 
Boat is his district. As EB points out in 
its annual report, the GD division is a · 
"Major Factor in Local Economy." In 
1984 Electric Boat paid $620 million in 
wages and salaries; $4 million in prop-
erty taxes; $7 million in unemployment 
tax, and spent $70 million at 653 
Connecticut businesses. 

Electric Boat's imposing presence in 
his district 
makes life 
tricky for 
Gejdenson, a Democrat who generally 
opposes Pentagon demands. Gejden-
son depends on EB for votes and 
money just as EB and its workers 
depend on Gejdenson for representa-
tion. So when GD's expense chicanery 
came to light, Gejdenson had to walk a 
fine line. His solution was, in a way, 
quite clever: 
don't defend the 
company, defend the workers. 

"We had to make sure that there was 
a separation between EB and its 
corporate 
management and 
its 
decisions," Gejdenson says. "We didn't 
want the workers punished for some-
thing they hadn't done." 

Gejdenson is at least forthright about 
his priorities. "Your first obligation is 
to your district," he argues. "If 
anything that makes you concerned 
about the status of that company, it's 
that they have a significant number of 
employees in your district." 

Though Gejdenson's concern for 
workers is well-meant, it avoids the 
national issue of defense fraud 
altogether. The problem arises when 
congressmen, representing GD 
divisions all over the country, start 
saying the same thing. Democrat or 
Republican, it makes no difference 
when the economic prosperity of your 
own district is threatened. 

"Before we started our hearings," 
Pete 
Stockton rememh'ers, 
"Tip 
O'Neill and Jim Wright from Fort 
Worth (where GD makes F-16s] put 
their ·arms around Dingle and said, 
'Gee, John, don't you have something 
else better to do with your time? These 
guys at GD are nice guys.' But once the 
hearings started nobody has tried to 
defend GD because what they've do"ne 
is just so blatant." 

Political influence and friendly rela-
tionships with the Pentagon are not the 
only cards General Dynamics can play 
in times of trouble. As long as GD has 
a monopoly on the Trident, the Pen-
tagon's options in punishing the com-
pany are limited, and GD knows it. In 
1976, during a cost dispute with the 
Navy, GD threatened to halt Trident 
construction entirely unless the dispute 
was promptly settled-which it was. 

"The major contractors have these ser-
vices by the balls," Stockton says. "The 
services supposedly have nowhere else 
to go for their weapons." "It would 
send shock waves through Congress if 
General Dynamics stopped making 
Tridents," Senator Chris Dodd said in 
February. Thus, debarment-pro-
hibiting a 
company 
from 
doing 
business with the government- is out. 


So is taking the Trident contract away 
from GD and giving it to someone else. 
At the moment, there is no one else to 
give the contract to. 

Of this country's other shipyards, 
only Newport News Shipbuilding, a 
Virginia corporation which builds the 
Navy's nuclear aircraft carriers, is close 
to being able to build a Trident. But 
awarding Newport News a Trident 
contract (assuming the company would 
bid on one, though it never has before) 
would probably increase the price of 
the Trident. "GD has already built all 
but the last seven or so of the Tridents 
the Pentagon has planned for," 
Gejdenson says. "To start splitting up 
the last seven, the cost of tuning up 
[Newport News] would be enormous. 
The question is, 'Do you want to pay 
the price?'" 

Colonel O'Brien at Department of 
D efense (DOD) adds "People are con-
stantly crying for competition. Still, as 
the saying goes, 'Only God can· make a 
tree, but only Newport News Drydock 
can make a nuclear aircraft carrier.' To 
the people who are out yammering for 
competition, I say fine, get three or 
four friends together with eight or 10 
billion dollars and build a shipyard.'' 

Lieutenant Allen at the Pentagon 
confirms that the Navy has asked 
Newport News to consider bidding 
for the next Trident contract, but 
there is a good chance that request will 
come to nothing. Preparing a bid on a 
military contract involves a huge 
amount of time and money; Newport 
News might not want to commit itself 
to a bid only to see Electric Boat win 
Trident construction: carrying 24 nuclear warheads, the submarine can stay 
submerged for over three months. 


**Title: General Dynamics: Bloody But Unbowed**
**Author: Rich Blow**
**Page number(s): 43-44**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
you do is knock off the top 15 people 
from General Dynamics and everyone 
else stays in place. Then you put the 
contract up for competitive bidding. If 
any other contractor saw that, they'd 
think, 'H oly shit, if we screw around 
with the Army or the Air Force, we 
may be the next one."' 

"That would be nationalizing one of 
the two yards which can build sub-
marines," O'Brien counters. 
" It 
wouldn't be practical and it was never 
seriously considered." 

In truth, Stockton's plan would 
hardly lead to the kind of nationaliza-
tion O'Brien fears. But given GD's in-
fluence with Congress and the Pen-
tagon, O'Brien is right about the im-
practicality of such a move. The com-
pany would certainly exert all its con-
siderable influence to prevent any 
takeover. Many politicians would fight 
such a move by claiming that the in-
valuable Trident program would be 
jeopardized. C learly, the takeover of a 
defense corporation with nine billion 
dollars in government contracts will 
never happen while Ronald Reagan is 
president. 

What then could the Navy have done 
to teach GD a lesson? There are plausi-
ble options. Besides forcing the com-
pany to withdraw its fraudulent ex-
pense claims, the Navy could have 
fined General Dynamics so heavily 
that GD (and every other defense con-
tractor) would hesitate to try cheating 
the government. 

Perhaps the most effective way to 
punish a corporation is to punish the 
individuals who run it. There are any 
number of charges the Navy a nd 
Justice Department could levy against 
G D officials in court- fraud being the 
m ost obvious, 
treason 
the 
most 
serious. And if company officials were 
held personally liable for their law-
breaking decisions, then they would be 
less likely to make such moves. 

"The problem 
with 
white-collar 
crime is that it's often profitable to 
cheat now because you may not have 
to pay later," New Haven Con-
gressman Bruce Morrison says. Mor-
rison is a member of the House Sub-
Co~mittee on Crime, which is holding 
heanngs on General Dynamics early 
next year. "I am appalled at the notion 
of individuals getting off while com -
panies pay the price," Morrison says. 
"That's not the way to control white-
collar crime, that's the way to promote 
it. And 1 am by no means satisfied with 
the way this case has been handled." 

General D ynamics' future is still far 
from 
secure. 
Both Proxmire and 
Dingle are continuing their investiga-
tions into the company. Newport News 
may bid for and win the next Trident 
contract. In Greece, Takis Veliotis says 
he has not revealed his most damaging 
tapes. General Dynamics Vice· 
~re~ident George Sawyer was recently 
mdtcted by the Justice Department· 
Sawy~r. is 
~harged with secret!; 
negottattng wtth GD for a job while 
still in his post as assistant secretary of 
the Navy. In that position Sawyer 
presided over the awarding of some 
five billion dollars in contracts to GD. 

But on the financial side, things 
don't look bad at all for General 
Dynamics. A recent report by Barron's, 
a financial weekly, predicted "further 
and substantial gains" for GD stock on 
its nine billion dollars in earnings. 
Next year that figure should top $10 
billion. Barron's conclusion? General 
Dynamics is "bloody but unbowed." If 
they're right, and GO's profits continue 
to grow, then there's no reason to ex-
pect any significant change in the way 
General Dynamics conducts its 
business. 

What is perhaps mos~ frustrating 
about this situation is that there is no 
easy villain- not General Dynamics, 
not the Navy, not Capitoi Hill. As 
Senator Proxmire says, "It's hard to 
blame the people involved as much as 
the system." As long as the United 
States is committed to building 
weapons like the Trident, there will 
always be scandals like this one. There 
is just too much money involved, too 
much temptation to cheat, too much 
that falls through the cracks. For many 
of the people involved, the problem of 
defense fraud is a secondary considera-
tion. The important thing is simply 
that the weapom get built. But the 
widespread corruption and dishearten-
ing amorality of the defense industry 
make you wonder. If you can't trust 
the detenders of America with your 
money, should you trust them with 
your life? 

• 
Rich Blow, a senior in Branford, is executive 
editor <if TN].


**Title: Books/Miles Kronby Codes of Honor Honorable Men**
**Author: Miles Kronby**
**Page number(s): 45**

Honorable Men 
by Louis Auchincloss 
1985 Houghton Miffiin Company 
$15.95, 278 pages 

Revisionists o ften 
expose the 
weaknesses and corruptions of the peo-
ple who were once our heroes- they 
reveal our champions as rascals and 
our supermen as boys. Babe Ruth, 
alas, was a lush; J ohn F. Kennedy, it 
seems, preferred blondes. But in his 
new novel, 
Honorable Men, 
Louis 
Auchincloss smashes his idol even as 
he builds it. Despite a heavy-handed 
approach, Honorable Men is an intrigu-
ing and often disturbing study of an 
American "hero" and why he fails. 

The 
hero, 
Chip 
Benedict, 
has 
credentials similar enough to those 
of Auchincloss to suggest 
that 
Chip may be the author's grim self-
parody. Their resumes are almost 
interchangeable: like Auchincloss, 
Chip went to a New England prep 
school, graduated from Yale in 1938 
(Auchincloss was '39), attended the 
University of Virginia Law School, 
and served with the Navy's amphibious 
fleet during WW II. They both began 
their legal careers with Wall Street 
firms and went on to direct cultural 
organizations in 
New York City. 

Author Auchincloss: creating a handsome, rich, well-educated yet tormented hero 

Despite his highly distinguished 
public career, however, Chip disap-
points himself. Although he was leader 
of his class at Yale, decorated for 
bravery in the war, and praised as a 
businessman by Forbts and Fortune, he 
sees himself as a "moral crook." The 
novel unearths a side of Chip's con-
science that may apply to the cons-
cience of the American elite in general: 
Chip is smart, 
handsome, 
well-
educated and rich, yet he is tortured by 
the expectations of his class. 

Chip's upbringing emphasized the 
principle that "people who have been 
born with certain privileges . . . are 
therefore bound to contribute more 
than average to their fellow men." 

Chip wants to be righteous, but he's 
not quite sure how to do it. By creating 
glib shortcuts through every moral 
issue to bypass what he sees as his in-
herent "wickedness", Chip fails to 
distinguish honor from decency. Thus, 
even dilemmas like the war in Vietnam 
become simple problems with simple 
solutions .... 
•can't you see that this is the first real 
moral challenge we've had since Pearl 
Harbour? And that we've actually 
elected to meet it without using the 
bomb? That we've chosen to fight not a 
war, but a duel, and with prescribed 
weapons? We, who could annihilate 
Hanoi with a single blow! It's .. . well, 
it's magnificent! It restores honor to a 
cynical globe. 

It's as if Chip has learned his morality 
by rote -
he wields aphorisms like 
tarnished swords of justice. For exam-
pie, when his best friend submits a 
plagiarized article to the Law School 
Review, Chip forces him to with-
draw from the University. "It's not a 
question of forgiveness," Chip says, 
"We took the pledge to observe the 
honor code when we came down here." 

For aJI his apparent insensitivity, Chip 
seems fundamentally misguided- by 
his family, church and school- rather 
than wicked. 

Auchincloss chose two narrators to 
tell this story. About half of the 
chapters appear in the third person, 
yet this narrator tends to lapse into 
confusing Socratic dialogues that may 
or may not be projections of Chip's 
thoughts. For example, Chip's super-
ficial charm, his "blue eyes and golden 
hair," are described as a "mask." 
And had the mask been torn away, the 
plaudits might have been silenced, to be



**Honorable Men**
**Author: Miles Kronby**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
succeeded by what? By jeers or even a 
hail of pebblestones? Not inevitably. 
That one was a fraud did not have to 
mean that one was vicious. Perhaps one 
had to be a fraud. Why? Did there have 
to be an answer? 

In the other half of the chapters, 
Auchincloss turns the story over to 
Chip's wife, Alida, who "takes pen to 
paper" and writes in the first person. 
Before Alida's marriage to Chip, she is 
a sharp, independent, ferociously am-
bitious woman (Debutante of the 
Year), quite unlike the drunken lap dog 
she 
becomes. 
Conditioned by 
domesticity, she learns to wag her tail 
for Chip's 
presence, mid-morning 
cocktails, and "the blessed narcotic of 
bridge." This contrast is frustrating 
because Auchincloss doesn't offer suffi-
cient explanation for her transforma-
tion. Chip may somehow have reduced 
her to a weakling, despite the fact that 
she seemed more than a match for him 
when they were courting. The insuffi-
cient explanation · of Alida's decline 
suggests that, after introducing her as a 
driving force, Auchincloss decided to 
downplay her dynamic role in the story 
so that he could concentrate on Chip. · 
The once-honorable woman remains 
i!l the book, but her narrative con-
'ri-ibutions are no longer trenchant, but 
merely fatuous and self-pitying. "And 
what was left of me," she asks, "but a 
shivering, naked, crouching figure 
whose G-String of a soul-saving per-
sonal resentment had been brutally 
snatched away?" The double-narrator 
technique would have been much more 
effective if Alida had remained consis-
tent. As it is, she does not make a 
believable victim. 

The dialogue 
i n 
Honorable 
Men is like a series of prepared 
speeches. 
In 
one 
scene 
a 
15-year-old boy says to Chip, "1 ask 
you, Tarzan, have you ever seen such 
a collection of bilious crones as our 
cleaning women? They say your 
grandfather inspects each candidate for 
the job. That old boy must have a 
depth of concupiscence to spot so 
precisely the attributes in a female that 
would make the most sex-starved boy 
vomit!" At times conversations sound 
like the Hardy Boys acting 
sophisticated. Here, Chip and his col-
lege roommate are discussing their 
parents: 

They don't really think I'll make it. 
They think I'm going to trip and break 
my stupid neck!" 
"Which would really mean breaking 
theirs?" 
"Ah, you see it too!" cried Chip, strik-
ing the arm of his chair. "It's true of their 
whole damn generation, teachers as well 
as parents. When Tinker slobbers about 
the drowning of Shelley, don't you know 
that he's keeping his good eye on you? 
He's afraid you might think he's a ghast-
ly ham 'al'ld that Percy Bysshe was an ass 
to go samng in a storm., 

Occasionally, Auchincloss assaults his 
reader with blunt symbolism. For ex-
ample, as Chip watches two bald eagles 
in their aviary at the zoo, he thinks to 
himself, "these huge birds expressed 
the dilemma of the times. What could 
they do but fly helplessly to and fro bet-
ween the moral cause and the practical 
horror, encaged in the limitations of 
the soul?" 

Despite these flaws in the structure 
of the novel, the premise of Honorable 
Men is valuable: extreme Calvinism 
can produce a destructive moral rigi-
dity. Chip believes he serves some sort 
of heroic cause when he betrays his 
friel!ds, his wife, and his parents. This 
paradox, as a comment on the relation-
ship between humans and faith, is by 
far the most interesting part of the 
novel. Yet Auchincloss struggles to 
build his fiction around this idea. 

Perhaps, if Auchincloss sees C hip as 
his alter-ego, then it is Chip who offers 
the story's message: "if you can deal 
with the world as it is, you can handle 
truth, and if you can handle truth, 
you're free." With Honorable Men, we 
must get past the fiction before we 
come to the truth. 


**Afterthought**
**Author: John Vannorsdall**
**Page number(s): 47**

One of the tasks of the new president of Yale will be to 
continue the work of Mr. Giamatti in establishing 
humanist rather than theistic languages, myths and rites 
to describe and rehearse the purposes of the institution. 
One of the tasks of the new University chaplain will be to 
affirm the new president's efforts to do·so, while at the 
same time rigorously describing the inadequacies of 
whatever the new president proposes. If both will accept 
their respective tasks in this area, it could mean an in-
teresting future. 

It's part of the problem that the history must be given. 
Most people know that Yale, some centuries ago, was 
started by ministers. Too few realize how profoundly and 
pervasively Christian concepts and practices have shaped 
the institution and its people. Yale's purpose was to 
prepare men for the service of the Church and civil state. 
That one should serve the civil state was a sub-set of ser-
vice to the Church, as in love of God and neighbor. The 
languages taught included Hebrew and Greek, in part to 
facilitate the reading and understanding of the Holy 
Scriptures. It was God's world which was to be studied, 
and when Yale decided to take science seriously, it sent a 
Christian professor to England to learn science so the con-
flict between science and religion would not find root at 
Yale. The president of Yale was the stated preacher for 
Chapel services and all students and faculty members 
were required to attend. The rhythm of each day was 
morning and evening prayer. 

The ethos of Yale was Calvinist Christianity. There 
was a price to be paid for its tightly woven fabric. Jews 
and Roman Catholics were few. in number, both within 
the student body and among the faculty, and those who 
did come to Yale, were allowed to come, were expected to 
live and work within the assumptions and practices which 
each Yale generation inherited and embraced. 

Some mark the change-time by the coming of Arthur 
Hadley, the first lay president. More likely the change ac-
tually occurred in the period following the Second World 
War when the college increased in size and large numbers 
of veterans could afford to come, men made self-confident 
and mobile by warfare. 

Vestiges of the past are still with us. Prayers and hymns 
at Freshman Convocation are a shock to the many who 
have no idea that this is Yale's source and tradition. 
Crosses adorn our buildings and banners, a chapel is the 
largest structure in our central quadrangle, the gradua-
tion procession detours around Center Church and the 
festivities begin with a prayer by the chaplain and end 
with a bishop's benediction. Substantively, however, the 
language of Yale's self-description and stated purposes, 
the mythology,· rites and rhythms of Yale, when discer-
nable at all, are non-theistic. The student body is 
marvelously heterodox, there is no religious test for facul-
ty appointments, and a significant part of the student 
body acknowledges no religion at all. 

Whatever might have been the possibility of sustaining 
Yale's Calvinist Christian cohesiveness, that time is now 
past for both Yale and for the nation. Sound arguments 
can be offered for affirming the change and embracing a 
rich variety of ways of viewing ourselves. It means that we 
must find a new language. The time of reaction against 
opr reli!tious roots should be over and our defensiveness 
ended. It was not necessary for Payne-Whitney's Fall 
folder to be headed "Body and Mind." The classic for-
mulation, "Body, Mind, Spirit," is more accurate and 
need not imply theistic religion. The president, in naming 
what occurs at Yale, need no longer omit religious ser-
vices and events. More people are probably involved in 
some form of religious practice than are involved in 
athletics. It's just a fact, and there is no need to be defen-
sive about it. 

President Giamatti has made a good beginning in his 
Freshman Convocation and Baccalaureate addresses. The 
word civility has taken root. We have been encouraged to 
avoid apocalyptic boding and to affirm that we have a 
future, to accept our responsibility to society, to rejoice in 
our differences and to learn from one another, and to af-
firm the sciences within our liberal arts curriculum. Most 
of this language has not taken root among us. It has no 
liturgical valence and there are no humanist hymns by 
which to sing it, no rhythm that we should care to dance to 
it. _ M?reover, Yale College is not one college, but 
twelve. Except for one freshman experience, and one for 
seniors, we have found no way to gather: the great con-
gregation for the purpose of rehearsing our identity. 

It's not unreasonable to ask whether we even have a 
governance structure which allows for an inclusive discus-
sion of the things we value and of the ways in which we 
shall say it. Do the officers of the University ponder such 
matters? Are the dean of Yale College and the chaplain, 
the next ranked persons, included? Do masters and deans 
spend time searching the humanist tradition for adequate 
language and ceremonies? There is no evidence. 

There are areas in which Yale has spent energy on the 
question of what is to be valued. Concerning South 
Africa, we·have asked what it means to behave ethically. 
Concerning equal opportunity, we have spoken and 
acted, though often prompted by the commonwealth 
rather than leading it. In both areas we may have been 
equivocal, but we have tried to define ourselves in 
humanist language. On the other hand, we chose to ap-
proach the issues raised by Local 34 and the issues posed 
by the energy crisis largely from the standpoint of the nar-
rowly defined interests of the institution. 

One thing can be said for the various chaplains and the 
religious communities: There is little or no effort to press 
Yale to return to the days of Calvinist cohesion. On the 
other hand, the chaplains have not adequately appreci-
ated the difficulty which the University faces as it at-
tempts to replace Calvinism with humanism. Neither 
have the chaplains and members of the religious com-
munities said clearly enough how they see the world, the 
person, and the meaning of higher education. We have 
not well understood how our worship and pieties, feasts 
and acts of penitence, function for ourselves and what 
they contribute to the common life of humankind. 

Both the new chaplain and the new president have an 
important contribution to make to Yale's future self-
understanding. Hopefully, the process of shaping a new 
language, new rites and myths, will be shared by all the 
people of the University. The religious communities will 
always find humanism inadequate, lacking in numinous 
power, unnerved by evil, without processes of repentance 
and renewal, and with an inadequate history and future. 
But we can have the best of both: A university determined 
to clarify and rehearse what it values, and within it 
religious communities performing the role of responsible 
critic and themselves living and declaring what they con-
sider a more profound and adequate way. 



DIAMONDS • WATCHES • JEWELRY 
~ 
JEWELERS INC. 
EXPERT REPAIRS ON 14K GOLD 
APPRAISALS WHILE YOU WAIT 
Chapel Square Mall 
562-7113 
For mall order & free 
catalogues, call (800) 221·3347 
fMC 0\0ft.,.( ·~· zt•t 
Caviare • Gourmet 
Cookwear • Bean 
Coffee • Sturgeon • 
Imported Cheese • 
Wtoole Grain Breads • 
Gift Baskets 
BROADWAY AT 80TH STREET 
NY, NY 10024 (212)787·2000 
GIFTS AND 
COLLECTABLES 
FOR THE DISCERNING 
America's Largest 
and Foremost Tobacconist 
Celebrating our 51st Anniversary 
•Music Boxes 
•Chess, Backgammon 
•Porcelain Dolls 
•Figurines, Wood 
Carvings 
•Crystal, Art glass 
• Cutlery 
• Expert Pipe Repairing 
•Tobaccos Blended to 
Individual Taste 
COME VISIT THE OWL SHOP 
268 College Street 
New Haven, CT 06510 
Send For Our Illustrated Free 
Catalog, or Call 624..3250 
46 The New J ournal/December 6, 1985 


MIS 
Management Training Program 
at 
Morgan Stanley 
One of Wall Stre-et's leading investment banking firms invite..<: Bachelor's and Master:'! cand1"dat.e~ 
of all maj01·s to apply to our Management Information System.c; Management Train?·ng Prog1·am. 
We are seeking JUNE GRADUATES and RECE'NT ALUMNI un"th !-·:uperior cu·adnm~· nco rd.-;. 
OUR PROGRAM OFFERS: 
• A means of establishing a career on Wall Street. 
• Rapid career progression. 
• Significant level of technological training focused on the securities industry. 
I ' 
• An outstanding compensation program. 
• An environment with high intellectual standards and sophisticated appronches to the markets. 
• A commitment to maintaining a competitive edge. 
Yale University Recruiting Date: Tue_sday, Feburary 4 
Resume Deadline: Friday, DecemlJer 13 
For more inf<mnation and to forward your resume, vi<rit the 
office of University Career Services or write: 
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. 
lnrorpomt,;i 
Christine A. Schantz 
Manager, MIS Recruiting 
1633 Broadway 
New York, NY 10019 
Murgan Stanley is an Equal Opportunity Empw11er.

