Publication date: September 6, 1985
Volume: 18
Issue number: 1

**MASTHEAD:**
- Managing Editor: Anne Applebaum


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
Between the Vines
Features
Sports
Books
Afterthought
About this Issue
NewsJournal
The Self Reflected
Radio Silence
Fighting for Time
Behind the Facemask
For Rowing's Sake
Crossing the Line
Beyond Equality


**Title: The Self Reflected**
**Author: Anne Applebaum**
**Page number(s): 3**

After spending the summer in Leningrad, Managing Editor Anne Applebaum discovered that the West looks very different when seen through Soviet eyes.


**Title: Radio Silence**
**Author: Paul Thomas Kihn**

On August 13, Yale's radio station was forced off the air. As the story behind the decision unfolded, station members realized the complexity of the internal problems confronting WYBC, and the difficulty of finding the right solutions.


**Title: Fighting for Time**
**Author: Rich Blow**

Despite the national attention recently focused on AIDS, much remains unknown about the illness. Experts in New Haven give a candid appraisal of the AIDS threat, and three victims reveal the impact of the fatal disease upon their lives.


**Title: Behind the Facemask**
**Author: Dan Waterman**

Yale's football team entered its late August pre-season training camp favored to win the Ivy League title. Yet as the players work toward that goal, they must constantly face the problems of being athletes in an academic community.


**Title: For Rowing's Sake**
**Author: Rob Welling**

In _The Amateurs_, David Halberstam not only provides us with the best and the brightest of American rowing, but succeeds in capturing the rapidly vanishing spirit of amateur athletics.


**Title: Crossing the Line**
**Author: Lisa Pirozzolo**

Twain, Whitman, Hemingway and Dos Passos all crossed the line from Fact to Fiction, and in her latest book, Shelley Fisher Fishkin firmly roots much of American literature in Journalism.


**Title: Beyond Equality**
**Author: Lisa Canuth**

Albertus Magnus College is admitting men for the first time this fall, and a recent graduate voices her feelings about her college and the decline of single-sex education.

**Title: Leaving the Flock**
**Author: Peter Zusi**
**Page number(s): 6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Operating in conservative times and 
led by such outspoken men as jerry 
Falwell, religious fundamentalism in 
America seems to have grown healthy 
and powerful. The auention of media 
and politicians alike proves that fun-
damentalism is now a force to be 
reckoned with. Yet every year in-
dividuals once deeply involved with 
fundamentalism 
quietly leave the 
movement and enter a society radically 
different from that of their churches. 


Few if any groups addressed the special 
emotional needs of ex-fundamentalists 
until last April, when Yale Divinity 
School graduate Richard Yao, '80, 
himself an ex-member, created Fun-
damentalists Anonymous (FA). The 
organization's rapid expansion from its 
first chapter in New York City shows a 
need for FA in every sector of the na-
tion, including, Yao believes, the col-
lege campus. To kick-off a cross coun-
try sweep of colleges, Yao and other 
representatives of FA will be in New 
Haven from September 16 to 18. 


Through talks open to the entire com-
munity, FA members hope to reveal 
the problems of ex-fundamentalists 
and the necessity of a support system 
for them at Yale. 


Because 
fundamentalist 
churches 
tend to be extremely exclusive com-
munities, explained Grace Mellon, FA 
volunteer and ex-fundamentalist, 
those who leave encounter difficulties 
acclimating themselves to life outside. 


According to 
Yao, 
churches command considerable social 
respectability, 
and 
rejecting the 
lifestyle often leaves people feeling they 
have failed or are inadequate. The focus 
of the organization is 
to provide 
support 
for 
these 
people 
through 
hot 
lines, 
newsletters and 
rap 
sessions with other ex-fundamentalists. 


Mellon, who spent 18 months in 
therapy after rejecting fundamen-
talism, notes that psychiatric help 
alone is often insufficient. "Fundamen-
talism teaches that you're in the world 
but not part of the world," she said. 
"Unless people have been involved in 
this thing, they don't realize what it is 
for someone to get out of it." 


Currently, there are approximately 
six million ex-fundamentalists in the 
country. 


Twenty-two 
FA chapters 
already have opened across the nation, 
with 
130 
more 
soon 
to follow. 
Spokespeople for the organization have 
been interviewed on numerous televi-
sion programs, such as Donahue and 
Today and in national magazines. The 
wide media coverage has enabled FA 
to reach its ever-growing audience, a 
fact that disturbs some fundamen-
talists. 


Despite this distrust, the organiza-
tion has no desire to lure people away 
from their churches. "We're not trying 
to recruit 
happy fundamentalists," 
Mellon said. Yet FA does try to make 
individuals aware that, as Yao puts it, 
"some people get very badly burned" 
by fundamentalism. "By telling our 
stories, fundamentalists see us as a 
threat," he said, "but we don't want to 
be an 'anti-group.' We JUSt want to say, 
'Hey, there is life after this thing."' 


**Title: Midlife Crisis**
**Author: [Author not specified]**

The name A. Barlett Giamatti seems 
to be on just about everybody's lips 
these days, and with good reason. 
From buzzing press conferences in 
New H<lven to Washington cocktail 
parties, the future of Yale's president is 
a favorite topic of conversation, for he 
is 
presently 
considering a 
career 
change which may very well lead to na-
tional politics. According to articles 
published recently in Thr Nrw York 
Times and The Washington Post, two of 
Connecticut's most prominent Repub-
licans want Giamatti to run for Senate 
in 1986. 


Giamatti, 
who announced last 
spring his resignation as president in 
June 1986, has met extensively with 
Connecticut Senator Lowell P.'Neicker 
(R) 
state 
Republican Chair-
man Thomas J. D'Amore. fhey hope 
to 
persuade 
him 
to challenge 
Democratic incumbent Christopher J. 
Dodd in the upcoming Senate race. 


Although other names have been men-


**Title:  A Summer of Motion**
**Author: J.N.B.**
**Page number(s): 5**

There is no such thing as stasis. You feel that living in any 
city for a summer, cities reeling with people, people on 
the streets day and night. Yet, while we move through 
noise and traffic for three months, in our memories Yale 
sleeps. The humidity at a constant 95 percent, the colleges 
empty of students, nothing must be happening. But an in-
ertia persists, and when we return at the end of August, 
the campus and the lives we left here lie .deceptively quiet 
and unchanged. 


A week after arriving in New York last June, I knew 
this would be a summer of motion. The city had little to 
do with it; in fact, the tug and pull I felt came from New 
Haven. Having distanced myself from campus, I could 
see the ·whirl of events, the constant changes at the 
University that would make creating an issue over the 
summer even more difficult than I had imagined. Though 
our .staff was working and studying in different regions of 
the planet, apparently leaving the magazine dormant, The 
New Journal, particularly this first issue of Volume 18, 
contracted and expanded from May to September. It all 
started with a phone call one night from our production 
manager, who was living in New Haven this summer. 
She warned me to be calm, because we had just received 
an eviction notice from the Engineering Department. It 
seemed the verbal lease on our Becton storage closet-cum-
office had just expired. The department needed the space 
for the overflow of engineering journals from the library. 
Mild panic, strategic phone calls, productive talks with 
Dean ~uttle and finally, surprisingly quickly, office 312 
at 305 Crown Street, upstairs from the Kosher Kitchen 
and the Film Studies Center. 


That may have been The Event of the summer for us. 
B\,lt each week some issue or person from The New Journal 
jarred the status quo. The state of the magazine changed 
every seven to ten days, and permanence became fic-
tional. An interview subject would be arriving in New 
York in three days, while the vvriter of the article was liv-
ing in London, unaware that questions were needed, with 
landlords who refused to give him urgent phone 
messages. At another point, more than half our small 
photo staff could not return early to work on this issue, 
and for all I knew, our associate photo editor had never 
received the letter I'd sent him in Beijing explaining the 
situation. Two stories had to be cut from our original 
September story list reducing our prospective major ar-
ticles to three. One of which had yet to be researched 
when the staff arrived in New Haven on August 18, with 
hopes of gluing together text, photos, ads and graphics in-
to the coherent order of magazine. 


I had seen the m·otions of late summer before, but with 
some other man or woman responsil?le for every word of 
copy going into .The New Journal. Although I had already 
served as editor-in-chief for one previous is ue none of 
our sources were vacationing on the Vine ard or in the 
woods then. During the school year our writer could use 
the Connecticut Hall Macintoshes for tories that have to 
be on a computer disc. We carne to New Ha en the com~ 
puter room was locked those with the ke · s out of town. 


Then, there was the staff. Everyone appeared o ten ibl 
ready to work. Yet how do you return to immerse yourself 
in Yale after a summer in Leningrad or eight months in 
China, after researching a book or reporting from one of 
Time's domestic bureaus? In a few days, however, 
the emotional jet-lag disappears, as you witness the 
business manager's excitement over the sale of a full-
page ad and a writer working on the rough draft· of his 
story throughout the night.. 


Our production manager doesn't like all-nighters. Why 
can't we be organized, she asks wistfully, instead of 
frenetically piecing together the entire issue over a 
weekend? Because just then do you truly feel the intensity 
of journalism, its separation from any nine-to-five job. 
People argue and create and compromise all in the effort 
to put words and images onto paper, print the product 
11,000 times and .then deliver it to the Yale community. 


This year, we feel the pressure of tradition and expecta-
tion upon us, as The New Journal celebrates its fifth year in 
its current format. The magazine began in tabloid form in 
1969, and after several prosperous years, died slowly in 
the late 1970s, Xerox art on the covers and wildly arcane 
fiction within. In 1981, it was revived as a news and 
features magazine focusing on Yale and New Haven. We 
simply don't have the resources to cover civil · war in 
Nicaragua nor the latest music out of Philadelphia. Yet 
we realize national trends affect New Haven; sometimes 
they are born here. Our readers learn that AIDS, abor-
tion rights and poverty are not remote issues but are tied 
intimately to their lives. While every writer and editor for . 
The New Journal fears at one time or another that the story 
ideas will run out, somehow both city and University re-
main fertile, dynamic sources of articles. 


The magazine itself, however, worries about the 
writers- and business and produc~ion staffs, photograph-
ers, designers, artists. In late May, the seniors on the 
magazine graduate, and the newly-elected officers leave 
for the summer 
eeing only huge gaps in the masthead. 


An editor I know at Northwestern faced a similar prob-: 
lem. At a gathering several weeks ago, she asked the 
speaker what she should do when she returns this fall and 
has to pull a newspaper staff out of thin air. The speaker 
told her that she needed only two people. One should be 
the stickler,' the absolute, unforgiving perfectionist never 
satisfied with a story or photo or ad. The kind of person 
who holds onto the final draft of an article until you 
literally tear it out of her hands. The other is the creative 
force, perpetually brain torming, who should be coddled, 
pampered anything to keep him bubbling with ideas. The 
New Journal has room for more than two for perfectionists 
and brainstormers alike, and for all the shades and com-
binations of drive and creativity in between. 


Fi ·e more times thi academic year, we will again come 
out of the night replete wi(h our sticklers and bubblers, 
sleep writer and ner ous production people, Newsjour-
nal and Afterthought . Each issue will give you a new 
view on Yale and New Haven, as they change from hour 
to day to month. lfthat view provoke anger satisfaction, 
correction boredom let us know. Challenge us, because 
ever month we hope to challenge ou. 

J.N.B.



**Giamatti for Senate?**
**Author: Dan Waterman**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
tioned as possible candidates, only 
Giamatti has received any kind of en-
dorsement from 
Weicker and 
D'Amore, both of whom feel that the 
president would make a strong and ex-
citing Republican candidate. 

Anne Scheer, media relations direc-
tor for D'Amore, described Giamatti as 
having all the attributes of a fine politi-
cian. "He is articulate, has a good 
sense of humor, and is a knowl-
edgeable and· proven administrator," 
said Scheer, who referred to Woodrow 
Wilson, 
a 
former 
president of 
Princeton, as a perfect example of 
educator turned politician. 

If Giamatti, a registered Indepen-
dent, were to make a bid for the 
Senate, it remains unclear whether he 
would run as a Republican or Demo-
crat. Senator Dodd's office meanwhile 
refuses to make an official comment 
until Giamatti reaches a decision. In 
order to campaign effectively. Yale's 
outgoing president will have to make a 
statement soon. 

Giamatti, who had not considered 
politics before Weicker and D'Amore's 
offer, has made no commitments and 
is keeping all options open. "I don't feel 
under pressure of any kind to make a 
decision," Giamatti said two weeks ago 
from his summer home on Martha's 
Vineyard. "I had conversations with 
some people and I told them I would 
think about it. It's nothing more than 
that." 

-Dan Waterman


**Elite but not Exempt?**
**Author: Melissa Tumulty**

While the members of Yale's Elihu 
~lub spent the last several weeks vaca-
tioning, its lawyers were preparinl{ for 
a coun confrontation. Come October, 
the club's attornevs will find them-
selves facing Ia" .. :vers of the ::-.:ew 
Haven tax assesso~'s office before an 
~rbiter, a retired Connecticut state 
JUstice. Elihu, one of Yale's coed senior 
SOcieties, filed suit last March a~ainst 
the assessor's office 
after the cit)' 
d 
. 
• 
ented the organization's appeal for 
property tax exemption on 
its 
S200,000 house at 175 Elm Street. The 
-
'ii Assessor Steven Juda, on the other 
~ hand, asserted, "The property is not 
~ exclusively used for educational pur-
t poses, and we believe it functions 
~ also as a social entity much like a 
-g fraternal society, such as the Moose or 
"i Elk Clubs." 

Elihu's Elm St. clubhouse-object of a 
"one-on-one" dispute with the assessor 
case is of substantial interest to not on-
ly Elihu, but to Book and Snake and 
St. Anthony's, two clubs that may soon 
have to pay taxes as well. 

Under Connecticut law, an organiz-
ation qualifies for exemption if it can 
prove that its premises are used ex-
clusively for educational purposes. 

Book and Snake and St. Anthony's 
may find their current tax exempt 
status revoked depending on the out-
come of the Elihu case. Not surprising-
ly, the conflict boils down to the ques-
tion: is Elihu a social or an academic 
institution? 

Up to now, Elihu has been a modd 
citizen, paying its $15,000 in property 
tax annually. Its sudden appeal for ex-
emption could be linked to ;-.;e .... 
Haven's rising property tax rates At 
anv rate, Elihu backs up its clatms with 
its 'certificate of Incorporation. which 
describes the club as seeking to .. pro-
mote literary and scientific education" 
through discussions, 
lectures and 
papers. There is no mention, however, 
of social activities. New Haven Tax 
~ 

While refusing to divulge specific 
:1 examples of social happenings at the 
house, .Juda does admit that "no one in 
this offke really knows for sure what 
goes on in there." But he promises to 
remedy the situation by requesting an 
inspection of the premises by the 
judge, attorneys, defendant and plain-
tiff. This plan does not seem to bother 
Elihu President Richard Urausky, '67, 
who claims that Elihu is not and never 
was a secret society. 

Even if the club's lawyers convinc-
ingly argue that the property is used 
solely for educational purposes, Juda 
plans to take another tack by question-
ing Elihu's alle~ed elitist policies. "Ac-
cess to Elihu is not made available to 
the 
avera~e Yale student-only to 
those select 15 juniors chosen by the 
out'{Oing senior members," Juda said. 

Although the case can be seen as a 
hmt to the University about its own tax 
exempt position, Juda denies that it is 
another sign of deteriorating town-
gown relations. He prefers to call it, 
rather, a "one-on-one dispute between 
Elihu and the tax assessor." Should the 
court rule in favor of New Haven, 
Elihu will continue to pay its property 
tax. Mort'over, Juda will apply the 
decision as an umbrella ruling and 
revoke the tax exempt status of Book 
and Snake and St. Anthony's. Alter-
natclv, tf the decision goes to Elihu, the 
tax assessor's office may receive several 
more applications for exemption by 
other Yale societies. which like the 
th{'ee m quec;uon, know a good deal 
when they see it. 

M~lissa Tumu 
'J h" ;-.;..," .Jourmtl '~ptem~r 6. I 985 7 


**Coat of Many Colors**
**Page number(s): 8**

Twenty fet•t tall with long bl.u:k arms 
which spin in any brt•t•zt•, tht• bizarre, 
multicolort•d stct•l structure in 
Beineckt• Plaza newr fails to draw 
curious stan·s 
from 
passt•rs·b\". 
wht"tlwr tht•Y havt• ~t·t·n it I 00 r imcs or 
nevt"r ar .111: Alt•xandn Calcit-r\ 1960 
srabilt" Gallnu J a'ld l.olbi•ops has stood 
just to tht• lt•ft of thr prnidt·nt"~ oflire 
since 
197.'l. allt•r it ''·I' donatt•d 
anonvmouslv to tht• Yak Uni,er~uv 
Art Callt·l"): (YUAe) from .1 pri' ate 
collectiun. U nlurtunatdv. i•1 tht• ta~t 
ten 
,c.tr~ tht• damp :\e'' Ha' t"n 
climate 
h.t~ takc•n us wll on thl" 
'culpture. n·dut·m • its bri!:hth painted 
surfaces w dullm•ss But nm'. thanks 
to rhe rcu·nt work uf two 1'\t•w York 
con~t'l'v.ationisrs hm·d h\ 
\'UAG. 

Gallows o'ld J.olbpop• st.mcl" in ewn 
~realer cmnr.1st to lis st.1rk !l:rD) cn-
,·ironment. 

Au~ust 22. the same day the}' began, 
ancl according to Caulk, the t;Kclift 
went without a hitch. To restore the 
sculpture to its original state, the two 
rook pains to use the same shades of 
paint that Calder had ust•d originally. 
ordering for the base alone Cadmium 
Reel 
and Japant>se lacqm·r from 
Calder's ~tinneapolis paint supplit·r. 

Rut as Caulk and his panrwr dis-
mantled the stabile ro strip .twa\ tht• 
old paint and apph the lit"\\. thev 
realized thm Gallou sand I.ollipop1 needs 
more than a cosmctic touch up. It 
seems that parts ol it \\ill ha' c to 
return to the found!'\· lor soldering in 

The Caldt•r in tlw pl.11.1 pn·,·iou,Jv 
had brt•n n·stured 111 tlw I.Ht' 1970s b\ 
Lippinnlll .• 1 loc.tll.m{t' sc.tlt• sculpture 
builder. This 1 inw \ l' -\G dt·ndt•cl to 
hirt" Dou!l: Caulk, rnm.u{n of State 
Uni\'ersirv of l't•w York's :\t·wbur!O(er 
Must"utn 
rt1 
Purchase 
.1nci 
Dou~~; 
K wartz, 
.t spt"nnltst 
m 
outdoor 
'Culprurc prt•srr,•arion, because of 
their ubstnnual t"xpcnencl" '' ith con-
sel'\·ation of outdoor art. Contracted 
b)· the ~~;allel'\ last sprm~. Caulk tn par· 
11cular <eemed a natural choice. he had 
worked 
e:-..ten i' eh 
"uh 
Calder 
prior to hi• death in 19i6. and has 
restored H of the nrtt~t's works, all of 
which arc ~imilar in size to Yale"«. 

Caulk enlisted the aid of K\\artz \\ith 
"hom he had collaborated on other 
projects, and \\ho recent!} submined a 
propo<al to YUAG to re tore a lead 
sculpture b} Ari~tide Maillol at the 
D~s tb~ Cald~r n~ more than 
a la'l'~r of Cadmium Red and 
finished thl"ir work on 
Jap~ne~e bcqucr? 
gallery. 

The men 
8 The ="tw Journ •IJ'cplcm~r 6. JQ85 

less than two years. In fact, the metal 
loops of the crossbar where the rotating 
arms are attached already have been 
worn thin from constant friction. 

Still, the conservationists' work on 
the stabile, however temporal it may 
turn out to be, appears to have satisfied 
the gallery Yet YUAG currently has 
no other olans for restoration of other 
outdoor s~ulpture at Yale. How did the 
Calder get so lucky? Perhaps because 
of its influential neighbors next door in 
Woodbridge Hall. 

-Aftlissa Tumtr


**Striking Out**
**Author: Peter Zusz**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

During the second annual Pro-Life Ac-
tivist$ convention last April, a sign 
hanging outside the convention center 
read: 

~welcome Pro-Life Activists: 
Have a Blast." The welcome was 
fri~~;hteningly appropriate, considering 
that one of the speakers, Curtis Beseda, 
addressed the assemblv from federal 
pri~on. where he IS ~ow serving a 
20-year sentence for the bombing of an 
abortion clinic in Washington. Increasingly, violence has been userl by 
pro·lifers in the debate over abortion 

The most radical ami-abortion ac-
tivists often have resorted to van-
dalism, arson and bombings to com-
municatt• their ang..-r over legalized 
abortion. 

~cw Ha,·en has not es-
caped the national trend Since Jan-
uarv. 1985. the New Ha,·en branch 
of Planned Parenthood of Connecticut 
(PPC) ha~ been the subject of at least 
fifteen incidents of harassment. and 
there is no si~n of a decrease in the 
future The chnic. which performs a 
variety of <el'\·iccs ran~n~ from infer-
ulit)' <en ices to abortions. has en-
countered 
picketin~ outside the 
building and menacmg telephone calls 
to both <tafT and patients. repeated 
bomb 
threat~ and finally. a five-


person invasion of the building on July 
20. 

"We're furious . I mean, I'm incensed 
that in a democracy, this sort of thing 
can go on," said Dr. Joan Babbott, ex-
ecutive director of PPC. According to 
Babbott, the invasion occurred at ap-
proximately 7:30a.m., July 20, as five 
people entered the clinic and proceded 
to hand out anti-abortion literature to 
the patients_ Three of the anti-
abortionists forced their way into a 
back procedure room and unwrapped 
trays of sterilized instruments, while 
picketers cheered outside. After 20 
minutes, the five trespassers were 
removed by the police, and they are 
now 
facing 
criminal 
prosecution. 

Though the clinic was closed for the 
rest of the day, no serious damage was 
done. 

Babbott believes that instead of in-
spiring fear, incidents such as these 
have heightened the esprit de c0rps 
among the staff: "When you're beseig-
ed, 
you consolidate." The pre-
dominant emotion after the inva-
sion among both staff and patients, 
said Kathy Irben, program director for 
the New Haven branch, was anger. 
People were "feeling for the first time 
that our rights could go down the 
tubes." Though Babbott is disturbed 
by the incidents, she emphasizes that 
~in no way are we going to stop offer-
tng services." 

John Grant, who has participated in 
the sit-in and in demonstrations at 
PPC , points to the non-violent nature 
of his methods. He has been involved 
in sidewalk counseling, which consists 
of "quietly offering alternatives" to 
women entering the clinic. While 
agteeing with PPC's account of the 
July 20 incident, he stresses that the 
maneuver was carried out "very quietly 
and peacefully." The pu·rpose, he ex-
plained, was not to intimidate or 
frighten staff and patients, but to make 
oneself entirely vulnerable to them, 
and 
thereby distract 
them from 
performing abortions. 

In spite of 
PPC's claim that these demonstrations 
ha~e strengthened morale, Grant 
~amtains that only such constant ac-
tion will lead to the repeal of abortion: 

-Peter Zusz

**Title: Between the Vines**
**Author: Anne Applebaum**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Between the Vines/Anne Applebaum 
The Self Reflected 
. 
When I.got to Vienna, I took pictures. 
Not 
pictures of museums and 
monuments- I 
had 
been 
taking 
museum and monument pictures in 
Leningrad all summer. No, I took pic-
tures of supermarkets, 
especially 
supermarkets with 
large 
cheese 
displays. There were so many different 
kinds it was confusing: blue, cheddar, 
Edam, Swiss. Even goat. Soft drink 
machines were another new photo op-
portunity. I found it extraordinary that 
cans of sweet fizzy liquid could come 
out of a machine. And in all different 
flavors! 

After several days, I reaccustomt'd 
myself to billboards, neon signs and 
store windows arranged to encourage 
purchases. Carefully lettered price tags 
ceased to phase me, and I forgot about 
the ubiquitous blue stamp that had 
marked prices in So,·iet stores. 

l 
remembered that I had actually grown 
up without state cheese and state 
mineral water, that I had tasted all of 
those exotic cheeses and soft drinks 
before. Although my original shock 
upon re-encountering the material 
wealth of the West soon faded, it took 
longer for Western behavior to make 
sense again. One Austrian girl whom I 
watched in a Viennese cafe struck me 
as particularly remarkable during my 
first week away from Leningrad. She 
had blonde bobbed hair, wore bright 
pink 
lipstick 
and 
a 
short 
white 
miniskirt which matched her shiny 
white teeth. She was drinking brandy 
and delicately bending her pinkie 
finger when she picked up the glass. I 
just sat there and thought about what 
an extraordinary creature she was, all 
blonde and pink and white and loud. 
about how amazing it was that she ap-
parently sa''' nothing wrong with wa,·-
ing her arms around when she talked 
in a public cafe, crossing and uncross-
ing her legs and laughing a lot. She 
probably knew how to plav teJ.Hl• 
I wanted to go up and ask hl'l. "1.,-
cuse me, how did you get to be su dif-
ferent from my friend Anya in Len-
ingrad " Anya doesn't know how to 
play tennis. She has bad teeth, because 
there are no Soviet orthodontists. I 
don't think she owns anything white, 
and I'm sure she doesn't own anything 
pink. She has never tasted brandy. 
When she leaves her apartment, she 
lowers her eyes while speaking, and 
her face seems to close inward, like all 
the other faces of Soviet citizens on the 
streets. 

Of course the Viennese girl would 
have laughed at me. I resembled her 
more than I resemble Anya, even if 
Anya and I do share the same name in 
Russian. But at that particular mo-
ment, newly arrived in Vienna, I was 
somehow seeing the West through 
Anya's eyes. So I envied the girl in the 
cafe, I marvelled at how fortunate and 
enjoyable her life must be. Although 
Anya was still back in Leningrad, she 
and I stared at the blonde girl for a 
long time. 

It is tempting to moralize about the 
Soviet Union. Although I only spent 
the summer there, I have found since 
being home that I am expected to have 
formed a new set of political opinions 
based on my experience. My mother 
says she hopes it made me Realize 
How Luckv You Are. Realize how 
lucky you are that vou didn't gro~' up 
whispering to your friends in public 
places, passing hand-tvped "unoffical" 
manuscripts to one anmher, growing 
silent when an unexpected knock is 
heard at the door. Not to mention liv-
ing ~ .. ·ithout brightly colored clothes, 
readable books, restaurants that serve 
more than one item from the menu, 
fresh fruit all year round, and, of 
course, cheese. One hundred kinds of 
cheese. Life is Better Here. Our Socie· 
ty Is Better. It makes a very simple 
way to understand East-West rela· 
tions. 

Simplistic truisms can also originate 
from the other side of the political spec· 
trum. People Are People, They're thr 
Same Everywhere, I find myself want· 
ing to say, as the very different in· 
dividuals I knew fade back into the 
huge empty red space on my map. 
They Want Peace Too. Of course they 
do, everyone I met there told me so. 
But that's just as easy as Our Society is 
Better. They want peace, we want 
peace, we both build bombs. 

I think I stayed just long enough in 
Leningrad to realize how lucky I am. 
and to understand that people are peo· 
pie, they're the same everywhere, but 
also to recognize that while both of 
these statements are true, they don't 
really explain anything about the 
USSR. The only thing I know forcer· 
tain about the Soviet Union is that 
after I went there, an unknown blonde 
girl in a cafe looked different to me 
than she would have several months 
earlier. Maybe I saw her the way Anya 
saw me. Maybe travelling East had 
taught me something about the West. 
about how the West looks from the 
other side of Europe. 

Talking to Anya often had the quali· 
ty of watching a mirror reflection. 
When you gaze in a mirror and lift 
your right arm, the reflected figure's 
left arm moves. You might know that 
the left arm you see reflects your right 
arm, but there's no denying that the)' 
seem to be opposites. Just as the defin•· 
tions of right and left change according 
to vour angle of vision, so too do 
definitions and assumptions change ac· 
cording to which side of Europe you 
were born in. Anya, for example, was 
not your typical young builder of 


--- Page 11 ---

BPEMEHHbJt) I>H.'JET 
~ "'""'""" ... .Ut!Al(\K"\J p('"
Anne Applebaum at Anya's wedding 
Talking to Anya often had the quality of watching a mirror reflection. 
Communism. She was quite critical of 
her government, not at all averse to . 
reading illegal books and quite happy 
to let. a dangerous American practice 
speakmg Russian with her. Never-
theless, she couldn't understand why 
the United States was so interested in 
Poland. She understood some of our 
disagreements with her government, 
but didn't we realize that Poland is a 
separate country from the Soviet 
Union? We seemed to care more about 
Polish trade unions than about our 
own. 

I ~ried patiently to explain how we 
cons1der Poland an occupied country, 
how there are Soviet soldiers in 
Poland, how the Polish government is 
controlled by Moscow .. Any a thought 
about that for a minute, said that was 
all probably true, but she didn't 
understand why I seemed to think that 
was any different from America's rela-
tionship to France, England or West 
G~rmany. Without animosity, she 
pomted out that America stations 
soldiers in those countries 
installs 
~issiles there, had occupied ~hose na-
tions after the war. And weren't their 
economies completely dependent upon 
ours, just as the Polish economy 
depends upon the Soviet? Well-yes, 
but no. Now, thinking back on seeing 
Coca-Cola advertisements plastered in 
the streets of Paris, hearing "Born in 
the USA" in London pubs and notic-
ing the American movies playing in 
the theaters of Munich, I understand 
even better the intense confusion I felt 
while trying to answer these questions. 
It's not that I honestly believe that the 
United States has the same relation-
ship to Western Europe that the Soviet 
Union has to Eastern Europe; it's just 
that the difference was impossible to 
explain to Anya. To her, covert 
domination was covert domination, 
whether it meant Coca-Cola signs or 
puppet dictators. 

Soldiers 
were 
soldiers, military bases were military 
bases. According to her experience and 
understanding of the way the world 
worked, they meant the same thing in 
any country. According to her defini-
tions, 
America controls Western 
Europe. And although she didn't con-
. vince me that the two situations are ac-
tuaJly the same, I didn't convince her 
that they weren't. Instead, her confu-
sion showed me how they really could 
look that way. I then thought a little bit 
harder than I might have about the im-
plications of the economic and cultural 
interdependence of the West. 

We had similar problems when I 
tried to explain about crime. "Well, 
yes, the neighborhood where I live in 
New Haven isn't particularly safe, as a 
matter of fact there are crimes which 
take place not too far from my apart-
ment ... Of course I still go out at 
night, I'm not that terrified ... Would 
someone who robbed me get caught? 
Probably not. No one guarantees that 
they would get caught ... No, I don't 
really worry about it all the time, I 
mean I guess I try to walk with friends 
at night, and even during the day some 
places aren't particularly good to go 
alone ... It's not a constant fear, real-
ly, I have to lock my doors of course 
" 

Anya thought it extraordinary that 
we had bars on our windows. Is it true 
that private citizens are allowed to · 
carry guns? She imagined constant ter-
ror, which I conceded some people 
probably feel, shooting on the streets, 
which 
I 
to admit happens, 
thousands of murders and rapes every 
year, which statistically do occur. She 
found this the single most terrifying 
aspect of life in America. She shivered, 
said she would find it unbearable not to 
be able to leave her house alone at 
night, to be afraid to walk in the 
streets. In no way could I convey to her 
how one adapts to the idea of violent 
crime, how one has to adapt in order 
not to become obsessed. Yet even as I 
spoke, I began to wonder about that at-
titude. We live in an extremely violent 
society, so violent that gun manufac-
turers are powerful enough to prevent 
a ban on handguns whose only purpose 
is to kill people. I just don't usually 
th~nk ~bout it that way. Nor does Anya 
thmk It odd that the stores in her coun-
try sell only one kind of cheese. Both of 


--- Page 12 ---

us have adapted to our particular 
set of cultural assumptions. It's only 
when you look at the situation through 
a mirror that the peculiarities begin to 
emerge. 

The list went 
on. 
They take 
American Express at Beriozlca stores in 
the Soviet Union, stores where only 
foreigners are allowed to shop and 
must pay with foreign currency. Soviet 
citizens can be arrested for shopping 
there. Anya didn't find Bm'ozki at all 
odd, but she found American Express 
completely incomprehensible. As I 
tried to explain, I discovered that I too 
didn't completely understand how it 
was possible to walk into a store, hand 
the salesperson a piece of plastic and 
walk away with an object. It just didn't 
make sense. "And then there are gold 
ones too, people want them mostly for 
status, I think ... Yes, you have to 
pay more money, well actually you 
have to have a better credit rating ... 
Credit rating? That depends on lots of 
things: where you went to college, 
what neighborhood your house is in, 
how stable your income is . . . " 

There is no such thing as unstable 
income in the Soviet Union. Nobody 
gets fired, 
except, of course, for 
political reasons. 
Nobody is ever 
unemployed, except for 
political 
reasons. Nor is income a particularly 
good gauge of someone's status. One 
can have a high income but no access 
to foreign products, and hence a low 
standard of living. Or a low income 
and a high standard of living. Figure 
that one out. Either way, nobody 
thinks it's illogical. Anya laughed a lot 
more about American Express Gold 
Cards. She never did see the point of 
it, and come to think of it, neither did 
I. 

When Anya and I said goodbye, I 
was almost shocked at her formality. I 
hadn't expected a Russian bear hug 
and weeping, but she didn't smile or 
cry at all. Instead she wished me long 
life and good fortune, health and hap-
piness, and her iace took on the closed. 
wooden expression I had only seen her 
wear in public places. I said that I 
hoped we would see each other again. 
"Maybe," she said. One of her friends 
once told me that she and her fiance 
had considered applying for emigra· 
tion permits. I had seen her almost 
every day for two months, and she had 
never told me. 

M y train crossed the Soviet border 
at about four o'clock in the morning. 
We were delayed for five hours while 
teenage soldiers with rosy red cheeks 
ran on top of the train and others open-
ed our luggage inside. It was raining 
outside. It had been raining when we 
left Leningrad and it rained when we 
stopped in Lvov. It was still raining 
when the Hungarian soldiers woke us 
up again to stamp our passports. I 
finally fell back to sleep on my sooty 
train cot thinking about darkness, 
cold, and especially rain. 

When I first opened my eyes and 
looked outside, I saw sunflowers. The 
rain had slOpped, and through my 
window I saw miles and miles of yellow 
sunflowers, Hungarian sunflowers. 
My head felt very light, probably from 
not sleeping well. I thought about how 
one time Anya and I had been lucky 
enough to find imported sunflower 
seeds in a kolkhoz marketplace, where a 
few farmers are allowed to sell private 
goods. 
thought about how the 
sunflower seeds had been small and 
grey and a little bit rotten, and how big 
and yellow sunflowers are themselves, 
especially when seen passing in row 
after row outside your train window. I 
watched as the sunflowers gave way to 
wheat and then tiny neat houses, and 
tried to reconcile their yellow existence 
with the marketplace where I had 
tasted their grey seeds, tried to under· 
stand why I could no longer look at the 
yellowness without thinking about the 
grey. 
•
Anne Applebaum, a smior in Pitrson is 
managrng editor ojTNJ. She spent the s~m­
~tr in Ltningrad on a Bates Fellowship do-
mg reuarch for htr senior essay.


**Title: Radio Silence**
**Author: Paul Thomas Kihn**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On the evening of August 19, a single meter on the transmission console in WYBC's FM studio still twitched. 

Four red lights surrounding the meter still glowed dully in the semi-darkness, and a low, monotonous hum was still audible. Yet the flourescent ceiling lights were unlit and the deejays' chair lay empty. Neither of the two motionless turntables held records, and both tone-arms rested silently in their brackets. WYBC, the Yale Broadcasting Company, was off the air.


Less than a week earlier on August 13, Gerald Etkind, WYBC's program director, had occupied the old swivel chair in front of the microphone. He had relieved the regularly scheduled deejay and sat purposefully before the controls. Apologizing to his listeners, Etkind explained that WYBC was forced to discontinue broadcasting for technical reasons. Promising "we shall return," Etkind ceased transmission and logged the station off the air at 1:16 p.m. Later, deejays arrived for their scheduled air play and could not enter the studios. A contest winner was unable to collect his free album. And station members rapidly discovered that their keys no longer fit the locks; Lloyd Suttle, dean of administrative and student affairs, had ordered them changed when the station closed.


The shutdown marked the end of a phase in WYBC's long and colorful history. Founded in 1941, the station initially broadcast only to Yale's residential colleges via a closed-circuit AM channel. Seven years later, the station was incorporated into the state of Connecticut as a non-profit, tax-exempt corporation. The organization expanded in the 1950s to include a record-producing venture and a television branch that broadcast to Yale's colleges from 1953 to 1954. In 1958 the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) granted WYBC a license to transmit beyond Yale, and it became the first college radio station in the country to broadcast 24 hours a day. This growth led the way for WYBC to begin FM transmission in 1959.


As no music and no words left the station, however, history mattered little. Many questions arose concerning the shutdown. Station members wanted to know why Richard "Thor" Moser, SY '86, WYBC's general manager, had not given them any advance warning. Why had Moser not told Etkind, a WYBC Executive Board (£-board) member, until 90 minutes before the scheduled closing? And why was Moser's only explanation a letter taped to the station's locked blue doors on the second floor of Hendrie Hall: "Due to technical problems with our transmitter, the WYBC Board of Governors has directed me to close the station . . . The station will be closed and secured until the problem is solved."


As the story behind the closing began to unfold, station members realized a single reason for the decision would not be found. Instead, the shutdown was the culmination of a confusing array of circumstances. "WYBC is like a pressure cooker that keeps cooking and cooking," said Station Manager Drew Cooper, DC '87. "You're surprised when it explodes, but you knew it would. You just weren't sure when and why."


On August 19, Suttle met with about 15 station members in WYBC's £-board office to discuss the "why." In the hot and crowded office, Suttle explained that the decision had been made by himself, Moser and WYBC's Board of Governors, an advisory body set up through the station's by-laws to insure that WYBC operates in compliance with public law, Yale regulations and its own by-laws. Moser was present, but spoke infrequently, choosing to remain in the background. The members of the Board of Governors were absent, their true position and influence remaining ambiguous.



**Title: WYBC's Troubles**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
While clarifying who the decision-makers were, Suttle gave only a partial expfanation fo r the decision to shut down WYBC. Although Moser's initial expl~nation for the turn-off was "technical problems," Suttle demanded a financial plan before the doors could be re-opened . Lawyer J ames H. DeGraffenreidt, '74, a member of the Board of Governors, cited both issues. But underlying every statement, every accusation, lay perhaps the most serious cause of WYBC's ailments: a rift between community, "associate" members of the station and the con-tingent of YaJe students. The split pro-voked suspicions that the Yale ad-ministration is attempting to oust New Haven members from their joint operation of WYBC. 

Walking through the station drives home a startling picture of WYBC's most tangible problems. "The physical plant and equipment are disgraceful," Suttle said. His words echoed truthfully down each grimy hallway and in each ill-equipped room. 

Bare floors and torn, black matting show where carpeting once lay, although new rugs partially cover old scars. Inside the E-board office, battered steel desks sit next to an old armchair, stuffing protruding from its shredded arms. Cigarette butts have been kicked into a corner in the hallway outside the door. On the floor of the music office an oval green rug, moldy and filled with holes, poorly disguises the debris beneath. Only cabinets plastered with colorful bumper stickers and walls hidden under record jackets attempt to alleviate some of the oppressive shoddiness. 

Station members work to keep the offices and studios clean, but there are numerous instances of abuse. Records have been stolen, door locks have been broken, and Michael Shoenbaum, ES '88, WYBC's treasurer, once came across a cup of urine in the FM studio. "One time, the knobs were twisted off the console and I repaired them," explained Thomas Duffy, a broadcast consulting service engineer who has worked at WYBC for three years. "I went back a week later, and it had happened again, so I repaired them a second time. The third time I started to get a little disgusted." 

Old problems more than new ones are responsible for WYBC's state of technical disrepair. An antiquated, black and unplugged Associated Press newswire standing squatty next to a wall serves as a stark reminder of the constant battle the station must wage against the corrosive effects of time. "Just about everything should be ripped out and replaced," Duffy said. "I submitted a quarter-of-a-million-dollar budget proposal two years ago, breaking down the needed repairs room by room. Nothing came of it." 

Nonetheless, the equipment works well enough for Duffy to compliment WYBC's sound quality. More serious technical troubles lie on top of Payne-Whitney Gymnasium where the station's 15-year-old, 1200 watt transmitter sits. Affectionately termed "Helen" by station members, the dilapidated transmitter has forced the station off the air several times in the past year, once for a day and a half. Duffy, who gives technical assistance to a number of Connecticut radio stations, believes that Helen will not survive another winter because of metal fatigue. Duffy also believes that her latest problem, discovered six months ago, is not at all severe. "YBC's signal may be fluctuating from its assigned 94.3 megahertz," he said. "Give me five hundred dollars and five minutes to replace a module, and I'd have that transmitter within FCC requirements." 

Ironically, the trouble with Helen didn't warrant such a long-term station closing. Furthermore, an engineer who examined the transmitter two days before the shutdown found nothing wrong. He felt the problem lies with the meter that has supposedly detected the transmission deviation, and not the transmitter itself. Countered DeGraffenreidt, "Even if we're wrong, and its only the meter that's broken, that's a problem in itself. It's kind of like driving a car without a speedometer." 

The deterioration of the physical plant is aggravated by WYBC's inability to pay for repairs; for years the station has been spending more money than it earns. Because most of its billing is chanelled through a Yale charge account, major expenditures such as phone lines and necessary physical improvements are funded by Yale, and charged to WYBC. Due to laxity on both sides, the "Yale bill," as the debt is called, had reached $26,000 in July with monthly increases averaging $1000. "With a debt of that size," Suttle said, "WYBC is a unique case among undergraduate organizations." 

In May of this year Suttle said of the debt, "Sooner or later someone is going to take action. When I start poking my nose into it, then it's my duty to take it. I want to give them every opportunity. I'm counting on the students to solve their problems. Eventually this one may need my resolution." After the station closing Suttle said, "I made it clear to David Baron, last year's general manager, that the Yale bill has got to stop growing, and it hasn't done that." 

Schoenbaum explained why WYBC can't pay its Yale bill. "Ten years ago YBC used to gross $75,000 in ads alone. Last year it grossed $25,000 in total income." As a commercial station, WYBC generates its greatest income through advertisements, and Schoenbaum believes part of the station's problem is that it has no real sales staff. Chip Triest, a member of the Board of Governors, agreed. "Any way you look at it, what it comes back to is money. If people had been out making sales, YBC would not have been in such an acute crisis." 

Last spring Schoenbaum estimated that WYBC could "really get back on our feet" in two years, but only with more active students and a better sales depanment to pay off the station's expenses: its equipment and repairs, the A.P. newswire and smaller costs like record royalties. More revenue could also be generated with increased ratings since higher listenership leads to better ad sales. Some people believe WYBC could increase its ratings by altering its current format. "They've got to rethink their product," Suttle said. "They do not have enough of a listening audience to be supportive." 

DeGraffenreidt agreed: "We will be concerned with making the air product more saleable with an improvement in technical quality and an improvement in content."


**WYBC's Summer Silence**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
YBC," one community member said, 
"they see it as a community station." 

"When the community had more input, it was a better station," another said. A third added, "It hasn't been working with just students in control." 

David Schwartz, who airs WYBC's Heritage folk music program, explained that back in the 1960s and 1970s, when WYBC was a major force in 
radio, 
Yale 
and community 
members ran the operational side 
together. "But in the last two years there has been a growing paranoia on 
Yale's part," he explained. "Now decisions are made behind locked doors 
and it's 
none of the community 
members' business. It's necessary to 
work together, but the pressure from 
Yale has been polarizing the station." 

Etkind spoke angrily of the summer 
months, saying, "Our elected officers 
aren't here representing us, and we're 
left to care for the station." 

"A lot of the community people are 
down on Yalies," Moser explained. 
"They complain that Yalies can't run 
the station, because they don't know 
what they're doing. But you can learn a 
hell of a lot in four years." Yet Moser 
sees truth in what the community 
members say. "I've been around the 
station for a long time," he said. "This 
summer I took a cold look at it. We're 
not an undergraduate organization. 
The community members care more 
about the station and put more effort 
into it, while Yale students are by 
nature a transitory group." 

The division shows at meetings of 
the General Board, where all station 
members are 
present: 
community 
members sit on one side of the room, 
Yale students on the other. Only a few 
break the strict separation. WYBC's 
call letters stand for the Yale Broadcasting Company; members of predominantly community-staffed formats refer to the station as "Your Best 
Choice." 

Community involvement in WYBC 
dates back to the 1961, when WYBC 
added a new purpose to its by-laws: 
To serve as a communications link 
between the Yale community and surrounding area, bringing the resources 
of the university to its neighbors, and


488-2257 

There were glossed sticky 
dates, cold rich jigs, 
cramped belly to belly in 
small boxes . . . 
- Thomas Wolfe, 1927 

We are open for breakfast on 
the weekends, far from the 
madding crowd ... small, 
yet intimate. 


**Title: Yale Quick Copy Center**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yale 
Quick 
Copy 
Center 
The Yale Quick Copy Center provides fast, 
economical copying and collating services 
to students and other members of the Yale 
community. The cost is 41/ .. centa per copy 
for 1 0 or fewer copies per original and 
3 '1'2 cents per copy for 11 to 500 copies per 
original. The Quick Copy Center, at 149 
York Street, is open from 8:00 to 5:00 Monday 
through Friday; its phone number is 
(43)6-7578. 


**Title: Fighting for Time**
**Author: Rich Blow**
**Page number(s): 24**

Only the very sick are allowed into the Dana-3 clinic at 
Yale-New Haven Hospital, but somehow this woman had 
managed to get in, and she certainly did not look sick. 
Young and pretty, wearing a colorful striped skirt and a 
flattering blouse, she approached Dr. Askenase and 
handed him her business card. "Doctor," she said, "you 
have to tell me if John Derek is a patient here." 
"I'm sorry," he said, "but you know I can't tell you 
that." 
"But you have to," she replied, somewhat testily. "This 
guy was seeing me for a while, and now he's seeing some-
one else. And I just think someone ought to give hitn a 
call or something that's all." 
"I'm afraid that's none of my business," Doctor 
Askenase said. He walked away. I followed behind him. 
"That's a difficult situation," I said. 
The doctor looked at me dryly. "That young woman," 
he said, "is a prostitute. She's worried. She spends a lot of 
time here at the AIDS clinic." 



**Title: We're all HaitiLow.**
**Author: RlfJublic**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"We're all HaitiLow." 
RlfJublic, May 13, 1985 
-The New 
Perhaps in a century historians will 
argue that the breakthrough came 
when an aging actor shocked the 
United States by announcing that he 
was ill- dying, really- from acquired 
immune deficiency syndrome, better 
known as AIDS. Rock Hudson's 
declaration made it impossible for 
Americans not to have at least heard of 
the disease, as countless magazines 
plastered Hudson's gaunt, tired face on 
their covers. The pictures showed a 
man who looked like he was dying. For 
the majority of Americans, it was the 
lint time they were touched by a 
disease that could no longer be ig-
nored. 


For the victims who have known for 
yean about the grim realities of AIDS, 
the tremendous amount of media 
coverage Rock Hudson attracted for 
the disease was indeed a breakthrough. 
There have been over 12,000 cases of 
AIDS since the epidemic was first 
identified in 1981, and over 6,000 of 
those patients are dead. The great ma-
jority of them are gay men, and for 
years the gay community 
has 
desperately tried to win the attention of 
straight America. All of a sudden, they 
had it. 


Gay men are not the only ones en-
couraged by 
the 
media 
blitz. 
Awareness is a critical problem for 
doctors and scientists all over the coun-
try struggling to prevent the spread of 
an incredibly complex, inevitably fatal 
disease. One such person is Dr. John 
Rankin, 
Assistant Professor of 
Medicine at 
Yale-New Haven 
Hospital. As a physician, Rankin cares 
for many of the AIDS patients who 
come to the hospital. Though he can 
not save their lives, he can prolong 
them by treating the secondary 
diseases that attack the constitutions of 
AIDS patients. 


A 
pulmonary 
specialist, Rankin also studies the 
AIDS virus' devastating ability to shut 
down the immune systems of the 
human lung. 


A young man who looks no older 
than 35, dressed casually, with long "A very close friend of 
brown hair falling from his forehead 
• 
v ~ 1 
and tucked behind his ears, Rankin ffiiDe, a 
~C:::Ue 
doesn't exactly fit th~ Marcus. Welby alumnUS Ca.Ille tO me 
stereotype. Only the s1x pens cl1pped to 
' 
his shirt pocket provide evidence of and sa1d 'I have 
Rankin's 
profession. 
That, 
and AID '" ' 
his habit of furiously, constantly scrib-
S. 
bling notes while he talks, scrawls full 
of medical jargon, incomprehensible to 
the layman. But Rankin's words reveal 
a highly intelligent, highly compas-
sionate man, willing to share his time 
so people will hear his warnings about 
AIDS. 


"An AIDS vaccine is not six or eight 
or ten months away, but longer than 
that," Rankin said. "It'll probably be 
years- and that's not even for a cure. 
That's only prevention. In the mean-
time, the disease is going to keep 
spreading in numbers so high it's dif-
ficult to imagine. The gay population 
in particular is going to be very, very 
hard hit. 


"The rough estimate is that ten per-
cent of the adult males in the United 
States are gay, depending on exactly 
how you define gay, meaning purely 
homosexual, bisexual, whatever. Now, 
there are about 200 million people in 
the country, about half of those people 
are male- that makes for some ten 
million gay men." 


He paused, tapping one finger 
cautiously on the table. "We believe 
. . . there is a good chance that within 
the next ten years every gay man in 
this country will test positive for the 
HTL V-III antibody, which is 
developed by the body after it has been 
exposed to the AIDS virus. Of those 
men, about ten percent will come 
down with AIDS. That is about a 
million deaths in 
the next 
ten 
years-and that's in the gay population 
alone. That's leaving out all the 
heterosexual contacts with prostitutes, 
the hemophiliacs, the blood transfu-
sions, the wives of bisexual men." 


Unless, of course, scientists can 
develop a vaccine for AIDS, but no 
one in the medical community seems 
optimistic about the chances for a vac-
cine in the near future. The reason: 
AIDS cripples the body's defenses in a


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author:  The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 26**

way doctors have never before en· 
countered. Caused by a virus known as 
HTLV-III, AIDS attacks the immune 
system, leaving the victim open to 
weakening, 
frequently gruesome 
secondary illnesses. The most common 
of these are Kaposi's sarcoma, a type of 
cancer usually limited to elderly men 
of Mediterranean origin, and Pneumo· 
cystis carinii, a form of pneumonia. 


How the HTLV-III virus spreads, how 
it breaks down the body's defenses and 
how to fight the virus are mysteries 
which have frustrated the efforts of 
scientists both here and in Europe. 
AIDS, said one doctor, is a disease "some-
one envisioned in his wildest nightmares.~ 


Rankin pointed out that the soaring 
number of AIDS cases will impose a 
financial burden on all Americans, 
regardless of whether or not they ha,·e 
the disease. Though estimates ,·ary 
widely, one projection puts the medical 
cost of treating a single AIDS patient 
from the time of diagnosis until death 
at about $145,000. Add inflation, 
multiply by the potential million cases 
among the gay populace alone, and 
26 The New J ournai/Sept<-mber 6. 19R5 
you'll understand why Rankin is wor· 
ried. 


Yet so little is certain about AIDS 
that estimating how many the disease 
will strike is a near-impossible task. 
The problem lies with the deceptive 
nature of the AIDS virus, which can be 
present in the body for as long as two 
years before symptoms show. 
Ex-
plained Rankin. "People's reactions to 
any virus vary, for ~enetic reasons or 
whatever. Say there's a flu 
~oing 
around in winter. Some people wtll be 
put out for a week b" this ,·iru.., and be 
practically dead. People like vou and 
me, we'll get mavbe a sniffle. That's 
what happens with AIDS." 


On the sheet of paper in front of 
him, Rankin drew a series of circles. 
each inside the other. "There are going 
to be a lot of people up here. in the 
largest circle. '' ho have been expoc;cd 
to the virus and ha\'e de' eloped an-
tibodies. And there will be some peo· 
pie, a smaller group, who ha,·e been 
exposed to the virus and show some 
minor abnormalities in their tmmune 
system. Next there will be an e,·cn 
smaller group 
that will become 
somewhat sicker. They'll have what's 
caJlcd AIDS-related complex. And 
finally, 
there's the smallest group 
which will come down with that full· 
blown syndrome. These people are the 
only ones who are clinically defined as 
having AIDS." 


Since there is no way of predicting 
how many members of the outer 
groups will descend into the final cir· 
cle, R ankin feels it would be foolish for 
anvone in a risk group to rely on vague 
rumors of a cure or vaccine. Instead, 
the only realistic way of "stopping 
AJDS in its tracks" is to educate people 
about the disease, to convince them 
that to stav alive they will have to have 
to change their lifestyles. The burden 
of change will fall most ·heavily on gay 
men. ".:\l ost heterosexuals really have 
no need to worry right now," Rankin 
said. "I don't think we're at the point 
where a heterosexual man or woman 
has to ask their partner to filJ out a 
questionnaire before they have sex. 
But among the homosexual communi· 
ty, there is only one piece of advice 


**Page number(s): 27**

AIDS, said one 
doctor, · is a disease 
"someone envisioned 
in his wildest 
nightmares." 


that is really going to make a dif-
ference: everyone who is gay should not 
be involved in · the transmission of 
bodily fluids." . Such advice would 
mean a drastically altered sex life for 
gay men, who would have to avoid any 
exchange of saliva while kissing and be 
forced to wear condoms during both 
anal and oral sex. 


Rankin continued, "We certainly tell 
men that affection between couples is 
possible: hugging and kissing and 
mutual masturbation are encouraged 
so that emotional gratification can be 
attained. 
There's no question that 
would involve a tremendous change in 
lifestyle for a lot of people. Still, that 
has to be the way to stop this, because 
once someone comes down with AIDS 
there's nothing we can do." Rankin 
drew a large zero on the paper. 
"Tragically, you have to write those 
people off." 


I met Laurie Help-fin at Yale-New 
Haven about a half hour before she 
was to take a blood test that she hoped 
would tell her, after a year and a half of 
uncertainty, whether she had AIDS. 
In her late twenties, with freckles and 
short brown hair, Helprin appeared 
healthy. Nonetheless, she had no sure 
explanation for the illness that has 
plagued the last 18 months of her life. 


When did you first start feeling sick? 
About a year and a half ago, I got 
really, really sick. I lost about 30 
pounds-vomiting, 
diarrhea, 
everything. I was running high fevers 
every night and was in a lot of pain. I 
Went to a hospital, and they tried to do 
an appendectomy on me. Well, that 
Wasn't the problem. 


When did you first think you might have 
AIDS? 
See, I was an intravenous drug user 
before. I never thought I had it, they 
just told me that. I think I got labeled 
because I was a drug user, I had 
hepatitis-B, I had an immunity prob-
lem. 
And 
when 
my 
tests came 
in everything wa~ pointing that way. 
But now . . . I'm too healthy to have 
AIDS. That's what I feel. 


How did someone from a small town in rural 
Connecticut get involved in using intravenous 
drugs? 
It's easy, they're all over the place. 
I'm not too far from a town called Nor-
wich, and there's a lot of drugs on the 
street there. Misery loves company, 
you know, 'cause that's what happened. 
This girl was doing it, and I just ended 
up doing it with her. And at first I 
wanted no part of it. It made me sick 
when I saw her getting off. But that's 
where I got the hepatitis from. 


Had you heard anything about AIDS then? 
No. Nothing at all. Feels like an 
awful long time ago, now. Feels like a 
million years. 


So you became addicted to heroin? How often 
did you have to shoot? 
God, as many times a day as I could. 
Minimum once a day if the money was 
tight. We were going to New York to 
buy because it was cheaper there, and 
it's just too much when you got two 
people doing it. Me and my husband. 


And when you were in the city for drugs you 
weren't concerned about what needles you 
used? 
Nope, There was a big box of them 
and 
you 
needed 
a 
works 
somebody just gave you one. Even if 
they were clean, the places weren't: one 
room and maybe 30 people. 


How do you feelTtow about that time of your 
life? 
I resent it a lot. I can't believe some 
of the things I did. I've changed. I'm on 
the verge of snapping most of the time, 
because I let it get to me. I sleep a lot 
but it doesn't do me any good because 
I'm . always tired. I'm edgy. I yell 
around the house a lot. I never yelled or 
anything like that in my life before. 


How has your life changed? 
Everything. My home life; you gotta 
look out for the children. I don't taste 
the food when I'm making dinner 
anymore. My parents, my friends treat 
me different. They could see I was ill. 
My husband, he's really scared. I 
mean, he hasn't shown any symptoms 
or anything, but it's like a time bomb 
waiting to go off. My son, he's 14, he's 
protective, he's bright, "Don't do this, 
don't go near that, you're gonna get 
sick." But my husband ... it's funny. I 
can't explain it. He hovers. 


Have you had arry problems getting medical 
care? 
· 
I can't get a doctor where I live to 
treat me. I had one, but he transferred 
to W-----, and I can't go there. His 
associates won't take me. They said 
they had full case loads- after looking 
at 1ny records, I'm sure. 


I got refused by three or four doctors 
about two weeks ago. I was really sick, 
and I couldn't get anyone to help ine. 
Each one came up with a different ex-
cuse. I got in to see one, and he almost 
fell out of his chair when I told him 
what was happening. He said, "I can't 
handle this, I'm too old, I'm about to 
retire." That's just what he said to me. 


How do you feel now? 
I feel a lot better now. Everything's 
kind of up in the air. I just got some 
really good news from my regular 
blood tests: they're normal, so I might 
not have AIDS. That's great. They're 
not really sure what's going on now, 
because I'm getting better whatever 
was wrong with me I'm getting better. 


**Title: Scientists Find AIDS Virus in the Teardrops of a Victim**
**Author: The New York Times**

Scientists Find AIDS Virus in the Teardrops 
of a Victim 
-
The 
ew York Times 
811 7/85 
Contrary to what many Americans 
once thought. the HTLV-III virus isn't 
limited to any social, ethnic or exual 
The . "ew Journal' 'eptember 6. 1985 27 



**The AIDS Crisis: A Generation's Battle**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
group and it never has been. For the 
disease to make its methodical way out 
of minority risk groups and into the 
general poP,ulation was simply a func-
tion of time. Now the virus is in an in-
termediate stage where the number of 
risk groups has grown but the majority 
of Americans are still not threatened. 
The new potential victims? They are 
prostitutes, patrons of prostitutes, 
wives or lovers of bisexual men, and 
perhaps most 
tragically, 
young 
children and infants. It is too late to 
help many of these new victims, but for 
Dr. George Miller, saving the lives of 
children is how the battle against AIDS 
may be won or lost for the next genera-
tion. 

A pediatrician, Miller has a five-year 
grant from the federal government to 
study how AIDS is passed from an in-
fected mother to her child and what can 
be done to halt the process. As more 
and more women are exposed to the 
HTLV-111 virus, that problem will 
become an increasingly significant and 
emotional element of the AIDS crisis. 
"We went backwards," explained 
Miller, who speaks in so few words that 
ht' seems almost self-conscious about 
his work. "Instead of starting with the 
mothers, we found the infants first, and 
then looked to find the mothers." 

Next to Miller sat Kelsey Martin, 
Miller's research assistant. A Harvard 
graduate about to enter Yale 
Medical School, Martin explained that 
although the babies were referred to 
them through the hospital, finding the 
mothers was more difficult than they 
had 
expected. 
For many of the 
children, there were no mothers to be 
found; most of the women were poor, 
and several were prostitutes. All had 
given up their children. "To find the 
mothers," Martin said, "I went through 
any contact I could find, whether it was 
a physician, a drug detox worker, a 
social worker, a policeman, any type of 
contact." One of the mothers, a pros-
titute, had died, probably from AIDS. 

Since 1984, Miller and Martin have 
located 12 children who appeared to be 
infected; three of them have since died. 
The researchers' first step was to deter-
mine if the children did indeed have the
disease. To do that they had to create a 
new blood test, one more accurate and 
specific than that used by blood banks. 
It took them about a year, but even-
tually the pair created a test which 
would identify specific proteins within 
the HTLV-III virus. Though their test 
is too complex to be used on a large 
scale, it did prove that the infants had 
HTLV-111 in their blood. The next 
question became: Where did they get 
it? The two then tested the mothers 
they had located, finding what they had 
expected. The women also tested posi-
tive for the AIDS antigen. 

Miller's findings show that a woman 
who has been exposed to HTLV-III 
has a disturbingly high chance of giv-
ing birth to a baby with AIDS. He ex-
plained, "We think that this virus per-
sists in a carrier, that individuals can 
be infected for very long periods of 
time and that they can transmit the in-
fection for a very long time. The 
chances are that once a woman is in-
fected, she will be capable of transmit-
ting it to her infant indefinitely." 

But Miller doesn't know how the in-
fants actually get their exposure to the 
virus. It could be from the shared 
blood within the mother's womb, or 
during the post-natal stage through the 
mother's milk, or even as the baby 
passes down the birth . canal during 
labor. Miller does believe that "the in-
fants are especially susceptible to the 
virus, and a very high percentage of 
those who are exposed will come down 
with the full-blown syndrome, prob-
ably somewhere between 20 and 50 
percent." Though it hasn't happened 
yet, Miller may soon find himself 


--- Page 29 ---

• 
"I told the doctor, . 
'How could I have · 
AIDS, I'm not gay.'" 
obligated to. advise a woman never to 
get pregnant again, or if she is preg-
nant already, to have an abortion. 
While he stresses that he has no power 
to enforce such . advice, Miller clearly 
feels· such 
actions · are 
the only 
humanitarian way to handle the situa-
tion. "Once you've seen one of these 
children spending a year o.r two in the 
hospital dying a · slow and terrible 
death, you realize that's something you ·. 
want to prevent." 
-.. :;;;::~·· ~m;."'-'' 
''" 
,,,. 
.... 
···-
... 
:m= 
,;.?.: 
...=· 
.. ,, 
"'" 
.. 
**The AIDS Crisis in Connecticut**
**Author: Rich Blow**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Homophobia is the 
only widespread, 
socially acceptable 
form of bigotry in 
America today." 

years. "A large percentage of my prac-
tice consists of gay individuals who 
come here either with a very specific 
problem, or who just want to come and 
be checked out and learn about AIDS," 
Gager explained. There is certainly 
ample cause for such concern; as of 
August 21, there were 144 cases of 
AIDS in Connecticut, making this 
state 13th in AIDS cases in the na-
tion- a high ranking considering that 
Connecticut is one of the smallest 
states in the country. Eighty-six of 
those victims are gay or bisexual men, 
78 are dead and 43 are from New 
Haven County. It is no wonder that 
gay men come to a doctor whom they 
know is sympathetic. 

Indeed, Gager acts as a reliable 
source of information in an apprehen-
sive gay community which eagerly 
consumes new rumors about AIDS 
research. Gager finds the hardest part 
of such a role is dispelling the terror 
and myths which surround the disease. 
To do that, he has to talk bluntly about 
the specifics of AIDS, how you can get 
the disease and how you can't. "My 
feel~ng is that you will get the virus if 
dunng sexual contact there is some 
kind of open abrasion on the body," 
Gager said. "I can't be sure, but I think 
the transmission of the virus is via the 
blood more than anything else. I really 
don't harp on the theory of the ex-
change of bodily fluids like semen and 
saliva. I think that theory leads to the 
false conception that if during sex you 
go almost to the point of orgasm, but 
don't actually have orgasm, you won't 
spread the disease. This is just not so." 

Despite Gager's dedication, his fre-
quent contact with AIDS patients can 
be a tremendous strain. "It's very 
~isenchanting to see someone usually 
In the prime of their life, in their tv."enries or 
thirties, come down "'-ith a disease that you 
can't cure," Gager said. "You get 
frustrated. You'd like to have a day ofT 
when you're able not to think about it. 
But no matter what you feel inside, 
you have to give people hope. Without 
that, they have nothing to live for. 
Whether that helps them make it three 
months longer, six months longer, I 
don't know, but you have to try." 

For Novick, giving hope to an AIDS 
patient means being able to tell him 
that he won't lose his job, or be evicted 
from his apartment, or go broke pay-
ing hospital bills. Novi& admits that 
the day when AIDS patients are free of 
such worries is far ofT, in part because 
AIDS victims have so few spokes-
people, in part because of unpleasant 
but omnipresent human traits like 
selfishness and bigotry. "What we are 
seeing in the social and medical 
responses to this disease is the direct 
conflict between a tradition of pre-
judice and the health care needs of a 
large group of American society," 
Novick charged. "People who have 
AIDS or who are in a risk group can 
suffer severe social punishment if their 
lifestyle or illness is known. I am lucky; 
I am in an academic setting where I'm 
allowed to speak out. But I am also a 
gay man, a physician and a scientist. I 
have a responsibility." 

In 1982 Novick began to study 
the ethical issues raised by this new 
disease but which the federal and 
state governments were ignoring. 
What he found was that, as if having 
the disease were not enough of a 
burden, an AIDS victim has virtually 
none of the civil rights largely taken for 
granted in this country. Novick, an 
older man with graying hair and a 
white beard, almost grandfatherly in 
manner, speaks angrily of such dis-
crimination. "The situation is bad 
enough in Connecticut for gay people. 
We have no rights. If you're gay, you 
can be fired, evicted, denied public ac-
comodations and transportation. Now, 
I don't know how often these things 
happen to gays, but they do happen to 
gays who have AIDS. And I don't 
think it's fear so much as hostility. 
Because 
homophobia 
is 
the only 
widespread, socially acceptable form of 
btgotry in America today. You see it in 
the movies, 
111 
the media-every-
where." 

To fight such prejudice, Novick con-
centrates his <'f'fons on five issues: risk 
reduction, to reach the public about 
prevention: education for health care 
professionals. to limit the kind of prob-
lem Laurie Helprin encountered while 
trying to gt•t treatment; access to 
health care. '"hether it be in a hospital, 
home or hospice: ethical concerns. such 
as whether to allow a child with AIDS 
to attend school; and public advocacy. 
speaking up anv .. ,•here to anyone who 
~ill listen. 

So far, it hasn't been easy. Most doc-
tors are reluctant to listen to Novick. 
who explained, "I'm trying to educate 
people who feel they already are the 
ultimate in compassion and sensitivity. 
But having a license to practice doesn't 
make you compassionate. So there are 
a lot of doctors 1 can't reach. I can reach 
medical 
students, 
social 
workers, 
nurses, home aids, emergency medical 
personnel and morticians." 

But to be most effective, Novick has 
to reach those people one by one, ex-
pending time he feels AIDS victims 
can scarcely afford. H e doesn't expect 
any kind of AIDS vaccine until at least 
five years from now and maybe not un-
til the beginning of the next century. 
Until then, despite the efforts of in-
dividuals 
like 
Gager, 
Miller and 
Rankin, Novick warns that the social 
divisions caused by AIDS will continue 
to worsen 
As they do, the critical 
question .... ill 
become whether the 
American public will respond to AIDS 
with reason and caring or .. , ith fear and 
hatred. For gav'>, who can sull be sent 
to prison in 23 states for having sex in 
their own homes, the prospect of an 
angry nation torn apart by AIDS can 
only hurt their chances for acceptance 
in American society. 


**Title: Behind the Facemask**
**Author: Dan Waterman**
**Page number(s): 35-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The difficulty of bringing together 120 men, hundreds of plays and tons of equipment to produce a winning team.


ports/Dan Waterman 
----------------~----------------------------------~ 
Behind the Facemask 
"Nobody is here just 
to play football. 
We're here because 
this is Yale. W e're all 
scholars first, and we 
play football because 
we like it." 
Clad in a shiny ~' hite helmet and ~rey 
sweats still damp 
from 
morning 
calisthenics on the dewy playing field, 
Steve Skwara runs down the sidelines 
surrounded by his fellow linemen. 
Thirty yards down the field Skwara, 
PC '86, and the others end their sprint 
and jog to the sideline, only to begin 
another drill. They do a frantic shuffie, 
keeping themselves low to the ground 
and criss-crossing their legs, until they 
have sidestepped back to their original 
starting point. "Come on!" the offen-
sive line coach yelled from the side-
lines. "Keep those butts down! You 
guys oughta look like the Rockeues!" 
The players continue their awkward 
dance down the field one after the 
other, like a twtsted ~arne of folio.,.. the 
leader. Skwara finishes and stands up 
straight, gazing across the field at the 
other players while waiting to run the 
drill once agam. Perhaps he sees Kelly 
Rvan hunched over. hands spread be-
t\,:een the center's legs. glancing to 
both side-; at the other quarterbacks 
around him. He pauses, waiting for 
Coach Carm Cozza to call the play. 
"forty-two ... 39 ... hike!" the coach 
screamed. Rvan drop<; back and raises 
his arm to th.row. but suddenly swmgs 
around. handmg the ball off to an im-
aginary running back Tucking the 
ball under his arm. Rvan meanders 
back to the ltne of scrimmage to do it 
all over again Across the field the 
defense runs backwards, and at the 
50-yard line, receivers run their pat-
terns over and over. 
Three weeks ago the practice field 
was empty, no watchtowers and no 
baseball-capped coaches. 
Now 
the 
sounds of football reverberate through 
the air: the crack of shoulder pad 
against hip pad, the panting of men 
sprinting from end zone to end zone. 
As happens every year, the Yale foot-
ball team has returned for its pre-
season training camp. With hopes of 
producing 
a 
winning squad, 
coaches have brought together 120 
young men, hundreds of plays and for-
mations, and several tons of equip-
ment for ten days. The practice 9ay 
begins at six-thirty a.m. and ends at 
10:30 p.m., two field sessions, team 
meals, practice films and talks with 
coaches falling in between. 
After 
training camp. 
however, 
something changes. The desire to push 
through the last set of sprints or to 
perfect coverage on the receiver means 
very little to other students sitting in a 
history lecture. This isn't the team any 
more. The athlete's height and bulk 
separate him from other Yalies. One 
look places him in the category "foot-
ball player," the dumb jock- hard-
Th~ :-.;~,.. JournAl Scpt~m!M-r 6. 1985 35


After 90 minutes of p ractice, players line up for the morning water break. 
The desire to push through the last set of sprints means very little to other students. 
drinking, clannish, violent. Yale does 
not cushion a player's life with athletic 
scholarships or bonuses; most pro-
fessors do not give passing grades to 
men simply because of their sport. 
Unlike those in the Pac-10, the majori-
ty of football players here realize they 
will never play in the pros, or even 
gain recognition outside Yale. There 
are no obvious reasons for playing 
football at Yale. Even the players have 
their doubts sometimes. But they do 
have their reasons for playing, even if 
most students fail to understand them. 
Going into the pre-season training 
camp, the team was under the added 
pressure of being widely favored to win 
the Ivy League title this fall. According 
to Sports Illustrated, "Yale has returned 
to form and should be the best of the 
Ivies. The Elis won six of their last 
seven games behind a slew of sopho-
mores." Included in those six victories 
was an exciting, come-from-behind 
win over a strong Harvard team. 
P layers and coaches, however, remain . 
wary. They remember that the same 
prediction was made in 1983, the year 
Yale had a humiliating 1-9 record. 
For now, the team and coaches put 
the predictions and the memory of bad 
luck away, focusing instead on the 
three months ahead. The work for the 
upcoming season began almost as soon 
as the last one ended, players weight-
36 The New Journal/September 6. 1985 
lifting and running through the oil-
season into the summer. Following a 
rigorous weight-training program 
devised by the coaches, players spent 
much of the summer in their old high 
school gyms, 
their garages, 
their 
basements. More than· most of his 
teammates, Yves Labissiere knows the 
importance of summer training. A 
highly touted defensive lineman, 
Labissiere, DC '87, dislocated his 
shoulder during last year's football 
camp. He missed most of the season, 
playing only in the last five games. 
This year, Labissiere arrived at camp 
showing no signs of last season's 
physical struggle. Sporting a tank-top 
that covered a massive upper torso, 
Labissiere stunned his teammates. For 
many players, Labissiere's comeback 
exemplifies the substantial difference 
summer lifting can make. Labissiere's 
progress stems partly from the pleasure 
he takes in summer training. "I really 
like seeing how much you can push 
yourself, how much can be dished out 
to you. It sounds sadistic, but it's en-
joyable," Labissiere said. 
Labissiere performed the workouts 
faithfully not only for . the personal 
satisfaction but because he trusts the 
advice of his coaches. A native of 
Haiti, Labissiere grew up in a strict 
household where he learned the bene-
fits of self-discipline. As a child, he 
played soccer, but when his family 
moved to this country Labissiere got 
his first introduction to football. Dur-
ing his freshman year at Holy Cross 
H igh School in Queens, New York, 
Labissiere was approached by the foot-
.ball coach. 
Although 
he 
initially 
thought football was "wild, crazy and 
stupid," he grew to enjoy the training, 
and it became an important part of his 
life. By his senior year, Labisierre had 
become captain of the team and an All-
League player, a great prospect for col-
leges with large football programs. 
Labissiere signed a letter of intent with 
Syracuse University, but his mother, 
who felt education was more important 
than football, convinced him to apply 
to schools with more stringent aca-
demic requirements. Having already 
signed with Syracuse, Labissiere had 
to consider schools in a lower athletic 
division, and narrowed his choices 
down to Holy Cross or Yale. He has no 
doubt that he made the best choice. 
Many players at Yale were in 
Labissiere's position, with impressive 
high school stats and the chance to 
enter major college football programs. 
Yet they chose Yale. Most wanted to 
continue playing the game, but real-
ized they would be cut from Division I 
teams. At smaller, Division I-A Yale, 
they could still play while receiving a 
better education than at the football 
powers. "Nobody is here just to play 
football," J ohn Duryea, Yale's top 
placekicker, said. "We're here because 
this is Yale. We're all scholars first, and 
we play football because we like it, 
that's all." Duryea, a mere 170 pounds, 
speaks modestly, although he holds 
Florida'!' longest .field goal record for a 
high school player. With that much 
talent, Duryea could have easily gone 
to a better football school than Yale. 
"You could always go to a football fac-
tory like Texas, but what good would it 
do you?" Duryea asked. 
If you've ever seen a. film of a fight be-



**Stretching before the day's workout:**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Stretching 
before the day's 
workout: 
few will play for 
the pros or even 
pin recognition 
outside Yale.


**Title: Yale Football Players**
**Author: Dan Waterman**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"On the Yale Campus 
since 1939" 
7 a.m.-6 p.m. Mon.-Fri. 
8 a.m.-6 p.m. Sat. 
1YeW$liA-
Lunch specials Mon.·Frl .. . 
All the popular dishes ... 
Moo Shul pork, hot & sour 
soup, etc. 
Our specialty is 
genuine Cantonese cooking. 
789·9697 
140 HOWE STREET 
Near Broadway, Whalley 
W The New Journal/Seprember 6, 1985 
Offensive linemen working to perfect their blocking techniques 
"You could always go to a football factory like Texas, but what good would It do you?" 
at Yale, you carry a burden, because as 
soon as one of us slips up the fault is at-
tributed to the entire team. You must 
carry yourself better, because it's 
always a football player's fault." 
Most players feel that reputation 
promotes the insularity for which they 
are criticized. "You get fed up with the 
prejudices after a while and you tend to 
bond together," Duryea explained. 
"Then you begin to act the way people 
stereotype you. People preconceive the 
jock and the a"thlete develops a "jock" 
aura. One feeds the other. It's not 
good, but it happens." To Duryea, the 
football team seems to Yale as Yale 
seems to New Haven, a closed and in-
timidating community. 

Perhaps the only time the entire 
Yale communitv backs the football 
team is for The 'came, more often an 
excuse for a party than an athletic 
event. But the players don't resent hav-
ing such erratic support. "If we are be-
ing used, it really doesn't matter," 
R yan said. "In a selfish way, we can't 
do it for anyone else but ourselves. We 
have to function as though we have no 
support at all, so if no one were around 
we could still do it on our own. It's 
what I'd like to think, but I hope I 
never have to find out." 

Players like Skwara, an offensive 
tackle, can't rely on fan support for in-
spiration. Unlike a quarterback or 
receiver, Skwara plays a game of 
anonymity, 
trying to contain the 
defense while opening holes for run-
ning backs. "You don't get much 
recognition outside of the offensive 
team," Skwara said. "I get a deeper 
satisfaction out of my own work, even 
if it's a few plays in scrimmage that I 
did well. No statistics can tell vou how 
well you did." Lately Skwara has found 
a new way to help his game, a process 
of mental training. and visualization, 
picturing the perfect· block or the 
perfect play over and over again. 

Rarely, if ever, does Skwara actually 
make the ultimate block, but he still 
believes that visualization improves his 
performance. Occasionally the fan-
tasizing gets out of hand, such as the 
time Skwara went running and 
daydreamed about the perfect game.


Most players feel that 
reputation promotes 
the insularity for 
which they are 
criticized. "You get fed 
up with the prejudices 
after a while and you 
tend to bond 
together," Duryea 
explained. "Then you 
begin to act the way 
people stereotype you. 

He saw the ball fumbled during a play, 
saw himself picking it up, running 
down the field 
past the confused 
defense and into the end-zone. When 
Skwara snapped out of his dream, he 
found himself two miles further down 
the road. 

On Old Campus, a group of large 
young men returns from Ray Tom-
pkins House after another_ long even-
ing with the coaches and staff. Dressed 
in clean shorts and t-shirts, showered , 
relaxed and exhausted, they lumber 
through the Vanderbilt archway and 
slowly begin to separate, moving 
toward their entryways and their beds. 
Except for the sound of an occasional 
·::~dio , Vanderbilt grows quiet. Lights 
are turned off. The players lie in their 
beds. In the back of their minds they 
know what tomorrow holds for them: 
another hit, another drill, done for no 
one's satisfaction but their own . 

• 
Dan Waterman, a sophomore in Ezra Stiles, 
is on the staff of TN] . 


**Title: For Rowing's Sake**
**Author: Rob Werling**
**Page number(s): 42**

Books 
For Rowing's Sake 
Rob Werling 
"A good crew meant 
shoehorning some 
eighteen hundred 
pounds of meat and 
ambition and ego into 
a thin shell that 
weighed about 180 
pounds and then mak-
ing it work." 
42 The '"" luurr1.1l Sepl<'miM-r 6. 1985 


**Title: The Amateurs**

The Amateurs 
David H alberstam 
1985 W illiam Morrow and Company, 
Inc. 
After three years of frustration with 
newspaper and magazine articles 
about rowing, I concluded that it is dif-
ficult to write about crew and impossi-
ble to do it well. The sportswriter 
assigned to a race must negotiate the 
mercilessly narrow gap between crew's 
twin dangers: the sport is, on one side, 
thoroughly saturated with terms alien 
to the general public; yet on the other 
side, crew is amazingly simple. What 
could be more basic, what could be 
(I'm almost afraid to ask) more boring 
than two boats going down a river to 
see which 
is 
faster? Surely, any 
reporter could describe a boat race 
without bringing in any of those cryp-
tic terms: "the catch" or "power-ten" or 
"up-two" or "three-seats-up" or "a-bow-
deck-down" or "weigh-enough." But 
jargon always manages to slip into the 
articles. We rowers cringe, knowing 
that most readers are nodding their 
heads politely without really under-
standing just what happened out on 
that river. 

While the premise of David 
Halberstam's The Amateurs intrigued 
me, I remained skeptical of yet another 
journalist's attempt at wrestling with the 
experience and language of rowing. But 
a lew awkward exceptions aside, The 
Amateurs proved more successful at 
taming the terminology of crew than I 
I ' 
imagined possible. Moreover, Halber-
stam effectively communicates to both 
rowers and laymen the rarefied spirit 
of amateur athletics. 

In an entertatntng, 
if often 
overdramatic account of the endeavors 
of four world-class oarsmen, the author 
reveals what makes amateurs special 
and quite separate from professionals. 
Halberstam's 
not so much 
a 
continuous narrative as a series of 
vignettes 
concer ning driven, 
independent athletes. The characters, 
Yale graduates John Biglow, '79, and 
Joe Bouscaren, '80, TifT Wood of 
Harvard and Brad Lewis of University 
of California-Irvine, 
all 
strive 
to 
become the top single sculler in the 
nation, and so, represent the U.S. at 
the 
1984 Summer Olympics. 

Halberstam devotes individual 
chapters to his oarsmen, hoping to 
explain the lives and ambitions of each: 
the older, graceless Wood; the insecure 
Westerner Lewis; the tenacious 
Bouscaren and the strangely volatile 
Biglow, the ultimate winner of the title. 
Although the men come together for 
the U.S. single-sculling championship, 
the chapters seldo_m overlap. Rather, 
the book frequently reads like a string 
of exciting yet loosely related sports 
pages. If Halberstam meant to write a 
biographical novel or even a simple 
story, his disjointed approach seriously 
undermines his efforts. 

Therefore, the power of the work 
lies neither with the plot nor structur:e, 



**The Amateurs**
**Author: Rob Walling**
**Page number(s): 43-44**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
but with that all-consuming desire of 
each oarsman to be the best. The 
athletes row for the sake of rowing. 
They know that excellence in the sport 
does not lead to multi-million dollar, 
TV-cut contracts with professional franchises, nor well-paid endorsements of 
cereals and sportswear. Indeed, their 
rowing fame will probably never reach 
beyond their hometowns. Nonetheless, 
these men are driven to suffer, to 
sacrifice, to work and push themselves 
beyond their limits. 

Such drive surely exists outside of 
rowing. Yet Halberstam sees that rowing 
and amateurism are tightly bound 
together, and their bond is especially 
pronounced because of the anonymity 
of crew, its great distance from television cameras and the viewing public. 
The total devotion of each man to the 
sport fascinates 
the author, and 
Halberstam 
often 
writes 
as 
if 
mesmerized by both the mechanics of 
rowing as well as the beauty of 
amateur athletics. 
A good crew meant shoehorning some 
eighteen hundred pounds of meat and 
ambition and ego into a thin shell that 
weighed about 180 pounds and then 
making it work. But in the case of a 
great crew, there was something more 
glorious . . . Here were eight oarsmen, 
having worked so hard and sacrificed so 
much, catching something magical and 
doing it race after race, each oarsman 
making the others better. The feeling 
made them not just confident but also 
Because of their single goal and 
unadulterated love of rowing, the four 
athletes often come across as strikingly 
selfish people, blind to the needs and 
cares of others. The selfishness leads 
each rower away from the team boats—
eights, fours, pairs—and into single 
scull competition. Collegiate rowing, 
however, emphasizes competition in 
eights, and oarsmen must cooperate in 
order to succeed. A certain understanding prevails in rowing a good team 
boat, but Halberstam's competitors 
often disregard this code. In races and 
practices, no one speaks but the cox-
swain. Yet during one race, Tiff Wood 
screams, "Let's go! Let's go! Let's go!" 
Halberstam does not realize that he 
has given an example of deplorable 
teamwork. He notices only the exceptional drive and determination of 
Wood. Bigelow and the other have the 
same problem—
each trusting just himself 
in a sport that relies upon the mutual 
trust among all nine members of a 
boat. 

Along with this lack of team con-
sciousness, the four oarsmen demonstrate an inability to deal with other in-
dividuals. The rowers in the book are 
outcasts, each a shy man who uses 
rowing to bring him confidence. Excellence in crew does give them 
strength, but it takes the shape of disdain and lack of respect for others. The 
characters themselves often make for 
unpleasant reading. But a crucial part 
of the book's message is that this 
selfishness is integral to the insane 
drive of the pure amateur. Each of the 
oarsmen is consumed 
by his own 
yearning to succeed in the sport. Yet 
success can be measured only by the 
competitor himself, not by the cheers of 
crowds or by a friend's congratulations. Perhaps the self-imposed isola-
tion, 
the unrelenting 
self-criticism 
somehow absolves the oarsman. Then 
again, perhaps not. 

This ambiguity lends *The Amateurs* 
much of its drama. And based on my 
three years of experience with Yale 
crew, I know this predicament is very 
real to people at all levels of collegiate 
rowing. Rowers at Yale share an affliction with Halberstam's oarsmen, driving themselves through painful workouts, then often facing the same social 
crises. 

Although rowing frequently begins 
as a vague, non-committal interest, it 
becomes all-consuming, as the rower 
grows infatuated with everything crew-
related, talks incessantly about the 
sport, and in winter, spends three 
hours a day in torture at the gym. 
People try to quit sometimes, for 
whatever reason, but most can't; they 
always come back. Anyone who has 
seen such mania has seen a true 
amateur, a person who loves a sport as 
sport, who burns to succeed just to succeed. 

has isolated 
this 
wonderful 
amateur's virus and 
translated it onto paper. He has overcome the double-edged challenge of 
crew's lingo, generally avoiding both 
confusion and boredom for rowers and 
non-rowers alike. Better still, he has 
used crew to aid him in praising a purity of spirit and the drive that accompanies it. The author proves that in its 
highest form, such a quality can only 
be seen in amateur athletes. In the 
final chapter of the book, Halberstam 
describes the amateur's hard-won inner satisfaction as experienced by an 
oarsman soon after the Olympics: 
Read 
Lewi~ 
(gold medalist in double 
scull) enjoyed immensely the grand 
tour 
of the United States with the 
other 
American Olympic medalists, 
even though being a gold medalist in a 
sport as eccentric as rowing did not increase his fame very much. The other 
rowers knew that he had won a gold, 
and some local papers paid attention. 
Other than that, the feeling of pleasure 
came entirely from within. What was it, 
he asked a friend, that Andy Warhol 
had said about fame in America? That it 
lasted for fifteen minutes? That was 
probably right. 


**Crossing the Line**
**Author: Lisa Pirozzolo**
**Page number(s): 44-45**

From Fact to Fiction 
by Shelley Fisher Fishkin 
1985 Johns Hopkins University Press 

Newspaper reporters, whether chasing 
firetrucks or sneaking around city 
halls, are the hands-on chroniclers of 
life 
in 
America. Though seldom 
praised for their eloquence or creativity, most reporters are driven by a 
sincere desire to expose the truth about 
things monumental and insignificant. 
But the daily grind of journalism limits 
a reporter from becoming a writer, making it difficult to express truths more 
complex than who, what, where, when 
and why. Frustrated by the incessant 
demands of deadlines, cynical editors 
and uncommitted audiences, many 
reporters dream of writing fiction. 

Only a few do, however, and even they 
bring with them the values and techniques of their experiences in journalism. 

In her new book *From Fact to Fiction*, 
Shelley Fisher Fishkin, former director 
of Yale's Poynter Fellowship in journalism, argues that "an astonishing 
proportion of major American writers 
since Whitman learned their craft as 
reporters of fact." Fishkin makes her 
case by documenting the careers and 
writings of five major reporters who 
turned to fiction: Walt Whitman, 
Theodore Dreiser, Ernest Hemingway, 
John Dos Passos and Mark 
Twain. All spent years working for 
magazines and newspapers before taking up fiction, and the experience in 
city streets, warfare and social injustice 
they gained as reporters figured prominently in their fiction. Mark Twain, 
for example, wrote stories about the 
racism he witnessed as a reporter, 
while Dreiser wrote of the poverty and 
the wealth he saw in New York. According to Fishkin, 
the tendency 
towards "immersion in experience" 
fostered by these former journalists is 
crucial to defining 
the American 
aesthetic, helping to answer the long-
debated question of what is American 
about American literature. 

After a short introduction, Fishkin 
devotes one chapter to each author, including autobiographical details of the 
writers' newspaper careers, analysis 
and excerpts of their newspaper articles, 
and most importantly, a discussion of 
how their early articles influenced their 
later fiction. 

The Whitman chapter 
opens with 12-year-old Walt taking 
his first journalism job at the Long 
Island Patriot, then focuses on his experiences in the streets of New York—
the people and scenes that became 
the stuff of his poetry. Fishkin reprints 
"Life in a New York Market," an article Whitman wrote when editor of the 
Aurora, then a major New York daily. 

While other papers covered the market 
by reporting the day's prices and products, Whitman described the market's 
sellers, buyers and wares in colorful, 
evocative language. Fishkin points out 
that the market characters and the style 
of Whitman's article are virtually 
duplicated in "Song of Myself," his 
best-known work. 

From addressing how on-the-job experiences influenced the writing of 
these five men, Fishkin then explores 
how their work influenced American 
fiction. 
Twain, 
Fishkin 
asserts, 
developed his characteristic technique 
of juxtaposing varied moods and styles 
while writing letters as a traveling correspondent. While on a sea voyage in 
1867, Twain provided a variety of 
episodes in his letters, ranging from 
the tragic death of a child to the amusing downfall of a con man to a standard landscape description. The same 
technique plays prominently in the 
Picaresque style of *Huckleberry Finn*. 

Similarly, 
traces Hemingway's style back to his first reporting job at the Kansas City Star. The 
Star's style sheet reads like a Hemingway guide to better writing: "Use 
short paragraphs. 
Use vigorous 
English. Be positive, not negative. 
Avoid use of adjectives, especially such 
extravagant ones as splendid, 
gorgeous, 
magnificent, 
etc." The 
brevity and simplicity acquired at the 
Star became Hemingway's trademark 
as a writer. 

Although these writers brought their 
experience as reporters to their fiction, 
they all found journalism an inadequate means of expression. "While a 
journalist could hope, at best, to shape 
the 
reader's 
view of a 
specific 
phenomenon or event, the imaginative 
writer aspired to nothing less than 
transforming the reader's way of seeing," Fishkin writes. Aside from the 
constraints of journalistic language, all 
these writers experienced some form of 
censorship. While reporting in San 
Francisco, Twain was sympathetic to 
the discrimination practiced against 
Chinese merchants, but his articles on 
the subject were harshly cut by 
newspapers reluctant to endanger their 
subscription rates. Twain turned to 
tongue-in-cheek fiction to express his 
views. In one satire, "Disgraceful 
Persecution of a Boy," a young lad 
makes the ironic statement, "God will 
not love me if I do not stone (the 
Chinaman)." The line clearly anticipates Huck Finn's words when he 
decides not to turn in Jim, the 
runaway slave: "All right, then, I'll go 
to hell." 

The only disappointing aspect of 
*From 
Fact 
to 
Fiction* 
is 
Fishkin's 
epilogue, a cocktail party discussion of 
recent attempts to pass off fiction as 
fact. 
After 
mentioning 
Norman 
Mailer's 
*Executioner's Song*, Janet 
Cooke's Pulitzer-Prize-winning hoax 
and Alistair Reid's use of composites in 
*The New Yorker*, Fishkin draws the 
simplistic conclusion that journalists 
are quite welcome to turn to fiction, 
but they should avoid writing fictitious 
facts. An apparent attempt to fit the 
rest of the book in a present-day context, the message falls flat in comparison with the interesting material in 
the preceding pages. 

Overall, however, *From Fact to Fiction* 
is a readable, well-researched contribution to the study of American 
literature, articulating thoroughly and 
persuasively the 
influence of journalism and journalists on American 
letters. 



**Title: Afterthought**
**Author: Lisa Carruth**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Beyond Equality 
In the spring of 1985, the Board of Trustees of Albertus 
Magnus College (AMC) announced that the number of men 
in the class of 1989 would be greater than in any previous 
class. On most campuses, such an announcement would 
merit no more than obligatory remarks from the student 
body. Albertus students, however, had a special reason for 
responding passionately: the class of 1989 will be the first 
class at AMC to have any men at all. Understandably, this 
type of institutional change could not pass unnoticed. 
Whether people agreed or disagreed with the decision, 
everyone wanted the answer to one question- why? 

Albertus Magnus College was founded in 1926 by the 
Sisters of St. Mary of the Springs based in Columbus, Ohio. 
Like many women's colleges, AMC was created simply to 
provide women access to higher education. Women's 
colleges shook the barriers of sexism and educated young 
women in an environment where they were "protected" from 
the dangers of the world outside the home. As these colleges 
became more established, their simple mission evolved into 
something stronger, more central to the lives of women: to 
help women cultivate in themselves a sense of self-
acceptance, confidence and esteem. Given a world of sexism 
and prejudice, this proved a task of great importance to the 
status of women. 

As the nation has become more progressive, single-sex 
institutions, both male and female, have found themselves 
vulnerable to the pressures of a society seeking equality 
between the genders. Coeducational colleges provide men 
and women with the chance to share thoughts and feelings, 
to interact socially in an educational setting that is still 
somewhat "protective." As confidence has grown in 
coeducation, single-sex institutions have come to be viewed 
as antiquated and out of touch with reality. Ideally, one 
hopes that the number of women's colleges has decreased 
because today men and women may be educated in a 
"sexless" environment, an environment where people learn 
as human beings, beyond the long-imposed restrictions of 
gender. It is naive to believe that such a society presently 
exists. 

I chose a women's college because I felt that I would find 
there opportunities for leadership and self-expression. At a 
women's college these opportunities are readily accessible to 
those who take advantage of them. As a young woman who 
often retreated from positions of leadership and chances to 
voice an opinion, I felt that Albertus would allow me to face 
some of my own insecurities. In a single-sex classroom I 
learned that I could trust my own mind; I developed the 
confidence to share ffi)' thoughts and insights. Gradually I 
found myself involved in projects which made me confident 
that I could handle leadership. What Albertus gave me was a 
four-year opportunity to begin growing up-confidently, 
proudly. 

While many people might assert that a women's college 
provides a false sense of security, I believe that it gives young 
women the freedom to forget that some people think less of 
them simply because they are women. In such a setting it 
becomes easier to develop one's potential as a person fortun-
ate enough to be female. Now, instead of feeling that I have 
to prove myself as a woman, I feel a responsibility to prove 
myself as a human being. 

When I learned that AMC was going to admit men, my 
initial reaction was a sense of loss. I began to wonder 
whether the education I had come to value so highly had 
been worth anything at all. In one swoop I had been told that 
Albertus could offer more to its students as a coed college 
than it could offer as a women's college. I had been foolish to 
believe that a women's college could help me to develop in 
ways that a coed college could not. I felt that my accomplish-
ments at Albertus had been a farce, earned in an 
environment which was, I was now told, without credibility. 

As president of the Albertus Magnus student government 
association this past year, I was forced beyond my private 
reactions. Like any savvy business management, the 
Albertus administration realized that the college-bound 
market is simply not interested in higher education divided 
by sex. The challenge for the college is to make this move be 
more than simply a prudent financial decision. Albertus has 
to embrace a new mission, and that is education of mutu-
ality. Albertus h~s to move beyond equality between the 
sexes 
to 
provide an 
educational atmosphere 
which 
acknowledges differences between the sexes and encourages 
people to develop these differences to a personal best. 

Last spring, I had very little time to weigh my own 
feelings as I came to realize that this change was inevitable 
and had to be accepted. To fight it would violate the 
education I valued so much. I still believe that women's 
colleges have an important place in the educational system of 
our country, but realities must be faced. Coeducation will 
allow Albertus Magnus College to grow, and for that reason 
I had to support the change. It is a difficult move to accept, 
however; coeducation is a risk which threatens the heritage 
of AMC students and alumnae. But there is a positive out-
come in taking this risk. Ultimately, any college education of 
real value will teach students to learn from themselves. 

When Albertus Magnus is able to cultivate this ability in its 
students, both men and women, it will truly have succeeded 
in 
replacing single-sex 
education with education of 
mutuality. 

Lisa Carruth graduat~dfrom Alb"tus Magnus Colltgt m 1985.


**Title:  The New Journal stands out**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 48**

The New Journal stands out. While the media hypes the 
evolution from hippies to yuppies as the 1960s yield to the 
1980s, everyone talks about protest giving way to pre-
professionalism on college campuses. It seems everyone is 
trying to become a professional. 

At The New Journal, professionalism means something 
different. It's an attitude towards our work which means 
conducting ourselves as professional journalists and 
publishers. Professionalism is a commitment to fulfilling our 
responsibilities to our advertisers and readers. It means 
striving to balance serious magazine work with serious fun. 

Professionalism also means knowing we can't face the 
constant challenges of publishing a newsmagazine simply by 
following the same old rules. It means realizing It's as 
important to learn from new people as it is to teach them what 
we already know. 

To find out more about The New Journal, join us at our 
Organizational Meeting in the Branford Common Room on 
September 9 at 7:30pm. If you can't make it, call Publisher 
Tony Reese at 436-6475 or Editor Joyce Banerjee at 436-6421. 

Organizational Meeting 
Branford Common Room • September 9 • 7:30 p.m. 
\ ;_ aren't pre-pro.essionai.-We are professional. 

