Publication date: November 25, 1973
Volume: seven
Issue number: two


**MASTHEAD**
- Editor: Stuart Rohrer
- Managing Editor: Alan Strasser
- Associate Editors: Pam Gray, Richard Hall, Lisbet Nilson
- Design: Jim Liberman
- Business Manager: Connie Dunham
- Editorial Assistant: Chuck Martin
- Production: Jane Fellner, Jon Hertz, Bernard Johnson, Suzi Moore, Crystal Pruess, Emrny Zuckerman
- Publisher: Ronald Roel


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- Comment: Yale in Jail, Pan-pipes and Pianos
- "Where are my words?"
- TV OR NOT TV: Firesign is the question
- On the Campaign Trail with Oedipus Rep
- On being physician and cancer investigator (A very difficult thing to bring off)


**Title: Comment**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 2**

Comment
The New Journal humbly accepts 
congratulations for its graphic vic-
tory in the recent Bladderball game. 
Despite a late arrival on the field, 
and gaps at five key positions, our 
team undauntedly crept to victory. 
We realize that our assertion of 
victory contradicts the claims of 
other campus publication teams. 
Deadline pressure forced each to go 
to press before the last play was exe-
cuted, the last block was thrown, or 
the last impetus was imparted. 


Lamentably, they missed the 
Journal team's brilliant, last-minute 
flanking maneuver, which clinched 
our victory.


**Title: Yale in Jail**
**Author: Lisbet Nilson**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

Yale in Jail 
Do thirty-one people voluntarily 
locked into a contrived situation 
experience the real situation? And 
can they validly transfer the 
thoughts they formulate in the simu-
lated experience into learning about 
a "real life" situation? 

Twenty-one Yale students and ten 
Boston State College students expe-
rienced prison directly but hypothet-
ically six weeks ago when they spent 
a weekend as "inmates" in the 
former Haddam County Jail. Now 
the Connecticut Department of Cor-
rections Criminal Justice Training 
Academy, the jail helps state correc-
tion officers and prison personnel 
understand prisoner behavior by 
exposing the law-abiding to the 
incarceration normally reserved for 
the law-breaking. 

Seventeen of the Yalies were 
members of the Calhoun/Branford 
seminar ''Incarceration: Conse-
quences and Alternatives." The sem-
inar is taught jointly by Roy King, 
a Visiting Ford Foundation Research 
Fellow in the sociology department 
and Sociology Professor at Eng-
land's University of Southampton, 
and Kelsey Kaufman, Yale '71, 
former corrections officer and now a 
Harvard graduate student. 

The seminar's multiform 
approach to learning distinguishes it 
from most Yale courses. The stu-
dents try to understand incarcera-
tion not only through the conven-
tional media of readings and a 
research paper, but also through 
field trips, movies, and encounters 
with guest speakers( among them 
corrections administrators and past 
and present inmates). The lock-up, 
which no one knew about when they 
signed up for the seminar, was 
intended to provide a radical base to 
the whole course. 

In some respects, the incarc~a­
tion was a phony situation. Being 
allowed to spend a weekend in jail is 
· not the same as having a long stretch 
of "time" ahead-everyone knew 
they would leave on Sunday. But 
once the student inmates entered the 
sealed world of the prison the situa-
tion quickly became • 'real'' enough. 
They were searched thoroughly, 
deprived of all personal belongings, 
clad in prison uniforms, assigned 
numbers instead of names, and 
locked peremptorily into separate 
cells. They were allowed no books, no 
watches, no pencil or paper. The only 
faces they could see were those of the 
professionally hostile guards. 

Real boredom and frustration set 
in-the experience was taking hold. 
The guards were "out to get" every-
body, and kept changing the "rules 
of the game" with studied but 
impenetrable arbitrariness. Solidar-
ity between the inmates grew 
quickly, beginning as a familiarity 
with the others' voices, and culmina-
ting in the great toilet paper inci-
dent of Saturday night. 

That night the guards made the 
fatal, if human, blunder of becoming 
so absorbed in "All in the Family" 
that they neglected to conduct their 
rounds. Suddenly freed from scru-
tiny, the inmates on the men's cell 
block (two tiers of ten cells each) 
began to construct a monument to 
solidarity and defiance. Slowly and 
laboriously they wove a thread of 
toilet paper through the bars and 
passed it from cell to cell. ("Don't 
laugh!" protested one of the partici-
pants, "don't you realize how serious 
this was, and how fragile toilet paper 
is?") The prisoners connected 18 
cells before they were discovered. 

The "former inmates•· grinned 
when they recounted that episode, 
but hastened to add that it was an 
exceptional interlude, a rare moment 
of victory over the guards. The rest 
of the weekend was hardly as glam-
orously high-pitched. It consisted 
above all of boredom and the queasy 
disorientation of not knowing what 
time it was or how much remained. 
They were humiliated by being 
treated as a numbered quantity, 
frustrated by confinement. As one 
student summarized ·'The externals 
of it may have been contrived, but 
the internals certainly were real. .. 

To what extent can one bring an 
experience like that weekend back 
into the classroom? Most of t he stu-
dents noted that there had been little 
explicit mention of the common 
experience after it occurred; it was 
never discussed in class. Still, the 
experience, however unarticulated, 
remains a kind of undercurrent of 
understanding. Everyone agrees 
that the course would have been 
qualitatively different without the 
prison weekend. One person spoke of 
a "silent knowing" which all share 
intuitively-a rare form of knowl-
edge at Yale nowadays. 

A couple of years ago, there were 
many more courses at Yale similar to 
this seminar in attitude, courses 
which tried to combine qualitatively 
different layers of learning into a 
variegated understanding, which 
tried to balance the inevitable pas-
sivity of books-and-lecture learning 
with direct experiential involvement. 
Many of these courses were report-
edly quashed because faculty and 
administrators felt that they lacked 
·intellectual rigor. Or, perhaps they 
disappeared because the legendary 
student shift toward serious bookish-
ness really has occurred. Still, the 
success of this seminar makes a 
strong case for the educational value 
of courses which are not only intellec-
tually rigorous, but also emotionally 
and personally demanding. 


**Title: Pan-pipes and Pianos**
**Page number(s): 3**

Pan-pipes and Pianos 
The Yale Music School broke with 
tradition last year by sponsoring two 
"variety series" rather than a 
variety of series. 

Last year's series, descriptively 
titled Series A and Series B, 
presented outside performers and 
Music School faculty, respectively. 
The School soon discovered that the 
variety which appealed to everyone 
in general prompted no one in partic-
ular to buy season tickets. Hence 
they revived the old approach: two 
of three series this year will have 
quite focused appeal. The Con-
noisseur Series will present artists 
from different areas of music. Its 
season ticket sales are unspectacu-
lar, as people buy only single per-
formance tickets to hear their favo-
rite music. 

The series· first performer will be 
the Gheorghe Zamfir Ensemble, a 
Rumanian _folk troupe touring the 
U.S. for the first time. Zamfir plays 
the pan-pipe. an ancient wind instru-
ment consbtin~ of wooden tubes of 
varying lengths into which one blows 
to produce sound. Music School Con-
( continued on page 15) 


**Title: "Where are my words?"**
**Author: Stuart Rohrer**
**Page number(s): 3-4**

"Where are my words?" 
6:10 on a Wednesday evening, 20 
minutes before ten million house· 
holds will tune in the NBC Nightly 
News, finds anchorman John Chan-
cellor at NBC's Manhattan head· 
quarters puffing his pipe and watch-
ing his shoes get shined. He is not 
waiting to begin his work-on the 
contrary. he has nearly completed a 
workday that began at nine in the 
morning. He has written and broad-
cast his daily "Monitor" radio essay, 
collected the wire-service copy and 
written most of the script for to-
night's show. After his half-hour 
newscast he will be heading home. 

At 6:20 Chancellor rolls down the 
sleeves of his red pin-striped shirt, 
straightens his tie and reaches for his 
jacket. He strides through the news· 
room to his secretary's desk, looking 
for his script. "Where are my 
words?" He finds the sheaf of yellow 
and white carbons-yellow for his 
words, white for technical cues-and 
heads down a long hallway toward 
the studio. 

His script will not be complete 
until several minutes into the broad-
cast, for the newsroom staff is still 
working to complete the final edit-
ing, time the length of news items, 
and determine the final order of to-
night's show. In the control room 
a director and producer are verifying 
that videotapes are ready to roll, 
commercials cued up, art work for 
the VIZ screens behind Chancellor 
properly ordered, and the announcer 
ready. But Chancellor, in the studio, 
appears to be in no hurry. He pencils 
in his final notes and corrections on 
his carbons, checks out the Tele-
Prompter which feeds him the orig-
inal, clears his throat, and at pre-
cisely 6:30 smoothly delivers the 
news. 

After 23 years in the news bus-
iness John Chancellor is a steady 
professional, well accustomed to the 
pressures of time, expert at last min-
ute changes. He is relatively new at 
the anchorman position, however. 
He succeeded the famed Huntley-
Brinkley team in August of 1971 
after Chet Huntley retired. Although 
Brinkley remains on the Nightly 
News intoning commentaries Tues-
day through Saturday, Chancellor 
has imparted to the NBC Nightly 
News a tone of professional so-
briety unlike the informal, often 
caustic delivery of his predecessors. 

In the Nielson ratings, Chancellor 
is the man in the middle, sandwiched 
between front-running Walter Cron-
kite of CBS and the Smith-Reasoner 
team at ABC. "We've been tailgat-
ing Cronkite for over a year now," he 
comments, "and I hope to catch him." 

Some critics feel that Chancellor's 
straightforward and often formal 
newscasting style p resents an ob-
stacle to catching Cronkite. "I'm 
accused of being much too dure and 
professorial," he admits, yet he 
claims that most of the news these 
days requires serious treatment. 

Besides, he is a reporter, not a per-
former. "I think the news is im-
portant," he says. ''I'm just the 
channel for it." 

The Nightly Neu•s staff approves 
of Chancellor's choice of style and 
believes that in time it will prove 
effective in attracting viewers. Chan-
cellor has only been the solo anchor-
man for a little over a year. "It takes 
a long time to build trust and con-
fidence ... he says. "We're trying to 
build that way, and in a few years I 
hope it will work, that we will have 
the biggest audience. But the second 
biggest audience isn't bad." 

If Chancellor's on-the-air demean-
or gives the impression that he 
knows what he is talking about, it is 
because he writes much of the news 
he reads. He is the chief writer for 
the program. "Most of the important 
work has been done by the time I get 
into the studio," he says. "Assem-
bling the news, deciding on it, writ-
ing it and reporting it interest me 
more than performing it on the air." 

Chancellor's dedication to the 
news has developed over the years 
since he took his first job with a 
newspaper. Born in Chicago in 1927, 
he left DePaul Academy at the age of 
15 to work at odd jobs until the 
outbreak of World War II, when he 
enlisted in the Army as a public re-
lations specialist. After his discharge 
and a brief stay at the University of 
Illinois, he started work as a copy-
boy for the Chicago Sun-Times. He 
rose quickly-through the ranks, and 
by 1949 had become a feature writer 
with a beat extending across the 
U.S. and Canada. It wasn't long be-
fore his work attracted the attention 
of the NBC-affiliated TV station in 
Chicago, WNBQ. 

Chancellor joined WNBQ in 1950 
and quickly established a reputation 
for intrepid reporting. He responded 
to police radio calls in an unmarked 
car equipped with a flashing red 
light and a siren, and could thus 
beat most other reporters to the 
scene of a news event. In 1955, he lay 
face down on the street in the midst 
of a Chicago gun battle to tape-re-
cord the capture of a murderer. For 
this effort he won the Sigma Delta 
Chi award for outstanding reporting. 

By 1956, his reporting skill was 
landing him NBC assignments of na-
tional importance. He covered the 
p residential campaign that year, in-
cluding the Chicago and San Fran-
cisco conventions. NBC sent him to 
Little Rock, Arkansas, to cover the 
openin g of a newly-desegregated 
high school. H e ended up staying for 
eight weeks when racial violence 
erupted t here. 



**Chancellor: A Profile**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Chancellor's success with domestic stories caught the eye of the 
NBC bosses, who assigned him to 
the NBC Vienna bureau in 1958. It 
was the first of a series of overseas 
assignments that would span 12 
years, and would culminate in his 
designation as chief of the NBC team 
that accompanied President Nixon 
on his Russia and China trips in 
1971. From Vienna he was transferred 
to London, traveled around 
the Mediterranean Sea directing 
David Brinkley's "Our Man in the 
Mediterranean", and in 1960 covered 
the trial of U-2 pilot Gary Powers 
from the Moscow bureau. 

That same year he covered the 
American presidential campaign and 
election. He won the reputation of 
"Iron Man" from his NBC colleagues 
during this assignment 
when, while waiting for John Kennedy 
to arrive in Hyannis to make 
his victory statement, he talked on 
the air for 90 minutes without a 
break. 

About that time NBC was remodeling 
the Today show, their 
early morning program, and putting 
it under the auspices of the news 
department. "Iron Man" Chancellor 
was called on to become the Today 
host, a coveted assignment but one 
that he was reluctant to take. His 
first love was still reporting, and he 
itched to get back. 

He got his chance after hosting 
Today for a year. NBC made him 
chief of its Brussels bureau, where he 
covered the European Common Market. 
He happily filed stories from 
Europe and at home until 1965. 

At one point, his wit turned a potentially 
embarrassing scene into a 
classic TV report. As a floorman for 
the 1964 Republican Convention, he 
was accosted in the middle of a report 
by a sergeant-at-arms who was 
attempting to clear the aisles. "It's 
awfully hard to remain dignified at a 
time like this," he reported as the 
man hustled him off the floor before 
a national television audience. His 
adlibbed conclusion: "This is John 
Chancellor, somewhere in custody." 

Lyndon Johnson appointed him 
director of the Voice of America in 
1965-he was the first working journalist 
to be so honored. But by 1967 
he was back at NBC reporting on a 
wide variety of stories: the 1972 elections, 
Apollo space flights and the 
recent Senate Watergate hearings. 

These posts with NBC have not 
only enabled him to see a good deal 
of the world (he loves to travel), but 
have also made him an extremely 
valuable member of the NBC News 
organization. NBC spent over 
$150,000 a year shuttling him back 
and forth between Washington and 
New York from 1970 until this year 
("Indulging my habits," as he puts 
it). In Washington he spent 
time with his family and maintained 
his contacts and friendships with 
government people ("You shouldn't 
write about people without knowing 
them," he believes) four days each 
week, and spent the other three days 
working at NBC headquarters in 
New York. 

He grew weary of weekly commuting, 
however, so recently he moved 
to New York, where he can be seen 
bicycling in Central Park and is trying 
to develop a circle of friends outside 
of broadcasting. 

Making the transition from field 
reporter to anchorman required considerable 
adjustment. "I was scared 
to death when I began," he recalls, 
"but I have a little more confidence 
in myself now. I feel less foolish doing 
the news." He finds it emotionally 
helpful to visualize his audience 
not in terms of millions but as one 
or two people gathered around a TV 
set. 

The transition from legman to 
desk man evokes ambivalent feelings 
from him. "Having traveled a lot all 
my life I genuinely miss it. But, on 
the other hand, I'm forty-six years 
old, and your legs begin to go after a 
while. And your enthusiasm for the 
fray lessens a bit. But I'm not going 
to be an anchorman forever. I'll 
probably get back to some limited 
kind of traveling in ten years or so." 

Through his career in the news 
business, Chancellor has witnessed, 
written, and reported a lot of news, 
and he says it tends to lose its luster 
every once in a while. "The news is 
episodic-much of it is the same," he 
comments. "It's a cycle of disasters 
and floods and government upheavals 
and things like that." He 
worries that his on-the-air performance 
might become too routine. 

There are good nights and bad 
nights. "A friend of mine watches 
the show occasionally, and sometimes 
he calls up afterwards and 
says, 'Boy, you were terrible tonight. 
You were just reading it. You were 
bored by it and therefore all of us 
were bored by it.' But he adds that 
nights like those have been rare in 
the recent climate of Watergate and 
the Middle East War. 

One night last month, after Nixon 
fired Watergate Special Prosecutor 
Archibald Cox, Chancellor opened 
the show saying that in his 23 years 
as a reporter he'd never seen such an 
extraordinary news day. Such major 
developments help to keep his 
interest up. "I hope to keep my enthusiasm 
for the news while I'm in 
this job," he says. "That's an important 
element. If you believe in it, 
think it's important, it comes across 
better and is more meaningful 
to people." 

His years as a political reporter 
(he has covered every presidential 
election since 1952) have convinced 
him that the press plays a vital intermediary 
role between the government 
and the public. 

He points out that the government 
has learned to use the press to 
its own advantage. For example, releasing 
bad news at a time when it 
may well go unnoticed: "Sometimes, 
I think, a Saturday afternoon in August 
isn't a bad time to put out a 
piece of news you have to put out but 
don't want to put out. If it's a little 
embarrassing, you issue a typewritten 
statement-you just give it 
to the reporters and don't take any 
questions. 

"The announcement of the President's 
compromise on the secret 
White House tapes, which he took 
back the following Monday, came 
out at 8:15 on a Friday night. I've 
heard it said that was a deliberate 
attempt by the White House to keep 
it off the nightly news programs. 

"But I don't agree with that. I 
think that in many instances, particularly 
now in the White House, they 
are having meetings and checking 
with people and deciding what 
they're going to do, and they just get 
the news out when they can." 

Still, he admits that the government 
can and does try to manage the 
news. "The media-national and local-are 
manipulated to a very considerable 
extent," he claims. "And to 
a considerable extent we're passive, 
much more than people realize. The 
way the game of government and citizenship 
is played in this country, I 
think we probably ought not to be 
other than passive in transmitting 
what the government wants transmitted. 
Where I think the American 
press doesn't do a good enough job is 
in following up and asking questions. 

"In other words, I see the press as 
two tracks. One, if the President 
says something, he's got to have an 
avenue of saying that to the people-any 
government has to. But then we 
ought to question that, put it to all 
kinds of tests. That's the other side 
of the press." 

In the wake of the Washington 
Post's investigative reporting which 
broke the Watergate story, however, 
Chancellor expresses his discontent


**A Nightly News Day**
**Page number(s): 5**

Producing the Nightly News every weekday night becomes a continuing 
battle against time. News happens 24 hours a day, but the program 
lasts only 25 minutes (after commercials), long enough to broadcast 
about the number of words of two-thirds of an average newspaper page. 
It is the work of 12 Nightly News staffers to distill the day's most 
important events into a concise broadcast. Here is how they do it: 
11:00 The conference call. Executive Producer Les Crystal and his 
associate producers confer with NBC's news bureaus across the country-
Chicago, Los Angeles, Washington. Each bureau reports the major 
news events in its area and details the number of camera crews and 
correspondents available for assignment. When the conference call ends 
the producers have a good idea what film reports will be ready by 
evening and which regional stories demand further attention. 

11:30-3:00 Foreign bureaus check in by telephone. Overseas stories 
are assigned. Lunch. 

1:00 The "rundown" meeting. The producers assemble to review the 
day's news and how it is being covered. They judge the importance of 
each news item, assign times (usually between 10 seconds and three 
minutes) and determine the order for broadcast. 

3:45 The rundown meeting produces a preliminary time budget-a 
rough outline of the show. Chancellor gathers the wire-service copy, 
studies it, and prepares to write. 

5:00 "Feeds"-film reports from the bureaus-begin to come in over 
the two TV monitors in the newsroom. The left screen carries domestic 
feeds sent by cable or microwave, the right international feeds sent by 
satellite. Associate Producer Joe Angotti watches each feed and decides 
whether changes need to be made. If so, the feed is repeated (most feeds 
are broadcast live from a studio and recorded on video tape in New 
York). 

5:30 The news writing team sets to work-Chancellor at the corner desk, 
Editor Sandy Goodman and Senior Editor Gil Millstein at adjoining 
ones. Copy from their typewriters is passed to the producers for 
checking, then to a production assistant for cues and timing (each 
news item is read at Chancellor speed and timed by stopwatch.) 

5:55 The news is written. The tension eases at the writers' end, but 
continues for the producers. Chancellor gets his shoes shined. Feeds 
continue to come in. 

6:20 Chancellor leaves the newsroom with his still-incomplete script. 
The original of the script is tested on the TelePrompter, and the studio 
is ready. 

6:25 In the newsroom, final timing of the script continues. The missing 
pages are delivered to the studio by runner. 

6:29 In the control room, a director, producer and production assistant 
scramble to re-order the news sequence to cover for an overseas feed 
that has not come in. Chancellor is notified by intercom. 

6:30 The show begins. It is fed live to many areas of the country, but is 
taped to be broadcast at 7:00 in New York and elsewhere. The control 
room crew count seconds, give cues, flip switches. 

6:59 Despite last-minute changes, the show falls short of precision by 
only five seconds. Chancellor: "Good night for NBC News." 


**TV OR NOT TV: Firesign is the question**
**Author: Richard Hall**
**Page number(s): 6**

An Interview with Proctor and Bergman 

Philip Proctor and Peter Bergman 
have marketed craziness-successfully-for 
the last seven years. 
Graduates ('62 and '61) from a Yale 
that required jackets and ties in class 
and at dinner, the two nevertheless 
created two-fourths of a comedy 
phenomenon known as Firesign 
Theater. Firesign Theater (all four of 
them have astrological fire signs) 
was born in the counter culture of the 
LBJ years, beginning as Radio Free 
Oz, on a Los Angeles radio station 
where they would "show movies" 
over the radio, very much in the tradition 
of the "Lone Ranger" and 
the "Green Hornet" radio shows. 

Firesign soon became distinctive for 
a peculiar multi-level humor with 
cinematic qualities, trafficking in 
discontinuity and free association. 
Their style is systematic madness-it 
takes off from the mundane 
and delivers the listener to the nether 
regions of pure fantasy with ever-
present plays on language and 
sound: situational humor, like a 
high school principal addressing the 
student body, a new car with environmental 
options, or a futuristic 
pay television station where distinctions 
between video and libidinal impulses 
crumble. 

Firesign albums-their first five 
collectively have sold a million 
copies-have not played to counter 
culture audiences as much as they 
have helped shape that counter culture-a 
contention suggested by 
daily language, where there are as 
many expressions that originated 
with the Theater as there are from, 
say, a Shakespeare play. Which 
makes sense, since two of Firesign 
were once Shakespearean actors-
Bergman was not, but he did invent 
the phrase "love-in": "I was 
working for a listener-sponsored 
radio station where nobody gets 
paid. So I decided to sell something 
over the radio and I invented 
the 'love-in kit'. That's also where 
the word 'kit' originated." 

Proctor and Bergman came to 
Yale November 9 after shooting their 
first movie short in three days. Their 
concert at Sprague Hall resumed a 
nationwide promotion tour of their 
first non-firesign album, TV OR 
NOT TV, before a riotous, dopedrenched 
audience. They had played 
Yale before (as Firesign at Woolsey 
Hall) in the late sixties when their 
appeal was greatest. "The stage was 
so high," says Proctor, "I thought 
we were going to be guillotined." 

Those days are gone. Though they 
are touring separately, they insist 
that the group hasn't split up, but 
that they all just needed a rest from 
each other. The other two members 
of the group, Phil Austin and David 
Ossman, don't like to tour as much, 
and, after all, Proctor and Bergman 
did go to Yale together. 

The Yale half of Firesign is a 
likely pair; they met, so the releases 
go, under the stage of the Yale 
Dramat in 1959. Although they were 
merely "professional acquaintances" 
then, their years at Yale created a 
bond between them. Proctor was a 
Pundit and a Scroll and Key man, 
Bergman a former managing editor 
of the Yale Record. 

They have been anxious to 
develop a new format for a visual 
show, and their effort was evident 
during their performance at Yale. 
The largely audial-centered Firesign 
touch that made them famous was 
missing. On stage, Proctor, in a pink 
frilled shirt, mugged it for sight 
gags; Bergman, with a maniacal grin, 
punned relentlessly. In the midst of 
experimentation, they tried new 
stuff, reworking material off their 
TV OR NOT TV album into a tight 
visual show. The audience, anxious 
to see it work, responded enthusiastically 
at first, heckling with lines off 
old Firesign albums, dressed up as 
the "Bozo" and "Bosco" heroes of 
some earlier theater fantasies. They 
were patient with the show's weak 
transitions, thrilled with the visual 
puns that corresponded to the verbal 
ones, hissed anti-feminist material, 
and cheered suggestions of old Fire-
sign flashes. The show was only a 
moderate success. Proctor and 
Bergman alone aren't Firesign, nor 
did they try to be. 

They have grown with their 
public. Gone are the great counter 
culture audiences; submerged, perhaps, 
in the greater slick commercialism 
that has infested all spectacles in the 
media today. 

Knowing that they have to keep 
moving with the times, Proctor and 
Bergman are show biz pros now, not 
freaky kids. They have families, 
agents, contract negotiations. One of 
them lives in Beverly Hills. They're 
talking about doing a TV series next 
season, about guest appearances on 
the Helen Reddy Show ("she's so 
nice," says Bergman, with a wave of 
his hand one only sees in the thick of 
Hollywood). They refuse to put down 
Cheech and Chong: "Great guys." 

Along with this commercial maturity, 
one notices a desire for reflection, 
self-evaluation and nostalgia 
for their days at Yale-the days 
when one of their friends appeared as 
Jesus during the freshman riots; 
when Bergman pulled pranks on 
senior society tap night by chaining 
the entrances to the colleges ("Did I 
really do that?"); when Proctor, who 
was working as a bursary student for 
Yale Reports, spliced together one 
great report featuring the coughs, 
throat clearings, gutterals, and 
sneezes of celebrities who came to 
Yale. 

There have been traces of Yale in 
the Firesign albums through the 
years as well. Nick Danger (from 
"How Can You Be in Two Places at 
Once When You're Not Anywhere at 
All") has an "old campus sweetheart". 
In TV OR NOT TV, one routine invokes 
secret Scroll and Key 
terminology that nobody else would 
understand. But beyond these instances 
lies the claim that Yale had a 



**Title: The Firesign Theatre**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Volume seven, number two I November25,1973l 7 
greater philosophic effect on Firesign 
humor over the years. "We repre-
sent a Yale frontal attack on 
humor," they say. They love to talk 
about Yale. They love to talk. If 
they hadn't met at Yale, Fire sign 
would never have been: 
Bergman: Proctor and I have a con-
nection through Yale. And that's a 
tremendous connection. We work 
well as a team because we have simi-
lar tastes. 
Proctor: I sat down one evening 
in California on a picture of Peter 
Bergman that was in the Free Press. 
' It said,"KPFK newsman Peter 
Bergman interviews, you know, 
Marvin Chomsky dressed as a sol-
dier on the Strip during the riots. 
Bergman: It was a kid wearing a 
marine jacket. He was one of the 
first people to put on army clothes as 
streetwear. And he was being thrown 
in jail as being a marine out of 
uniform. Proctor: This was the first 
indication I had that Peter was there 
when I was in Los Angeles. So I got 
in touch with him. I was writing for 
" 
a paper called the East Village Other 
then, just for the fun of it, funny 
material. I called Peter and he said, 
"Yeah, I do a show every night on 
KPFK, Radio Free Oz." I said~ 
"Yeah, I've heard about that. ·• He 
said, "Why don't you come on down 
and we'll talk." And we talked about 
Yale first thing. 
Then we started to do improvisa-
tions. B: That's true. That was real 
Firesign Theater, wasn't it? 
P: Peter was doing a theater of learn-
ing on the air. He was using arcane 
subjects like astrology, tarot. 
B: Indian mysticism. P: It was 
really far-out stuff. It was very 
enlightening and very interesting. 
Peter also created the word "love-
in." All of the first love-ins in Cali-
fornia, or most of them, are con-
nected with John Carpenter and 
Peter Bergman. 
Peter introduced me to Phil 
Austin and Dave Ossman. Austin 
was producing a show at the time 
and Ossman was a recently fired 
station manager. We did an improvi-
sation on the air called "The Oz Film 
"Festival", showing movies on the 
air. Everybody believed all the char-
acters that we portrayed, so that's 
how we got started. 
P: It's interesting. Bergman and I 
have been doing Firesign Theater for 
seven years and we've been doing 
double for about a year now. They're 
equal forms. Even me as a single 
actor, I've done some stuff as a 
single actor, and I'm influenced by 
Firesign Theater. That's because 
we're doing our own work. We're like 
singers, musicians. We're singing 
our comedy. Like Peter Cook and 
Dudley Moore. We saw them in New 
York. They're like musicians. 
Everything connects to a hero. 
Because life is sequential. The way 
we relate to things is on a multi-level 
basis. The Firesign Theater magic 
comes out of the relationship of four 
men who .. . B: are radically differ-
ent ... P: are radically different and 
yet have enough edge on their per-
sonalities that they tend to appreci-
ate someone else's attitude or vision 
of something. 

The Firesign Theater 1s not so 
much a theater as it is a combination 
of people and talents. I've always 
had my own private attitudes about 
it. I even have my own private atti-
tudes about our relationship. I'm 
only myself; I'm not my brother's 
keeper. Therefore, if I'm pleased 
with the expression of art that I'm 
involved in (this is only one aspect of 
my life), then what more satisfaction 
do I require? Not just on the artistic 
level, but on the level of my life. Can 
I support myself? Am I comfortable? 
Do I like traveling? Can I stand the 
strain away from my wife? Do I 
enjoy getting together to get crea-
tive ideas together? People that we 
meet contribute to what we do. It's 
an artistic situation. Can we appear 
in public? Can we appear on televi-
sion and do the things that we do 
and perhaps enlighten other people 
who may not be aware of the sort of 
intellectual hard core comedy we're 
involved in? What you were talking 
about ... the records are multi-level 
and deep and they do seem to teach 
many things. I find it exciting and 
enlightening only because I find it 
creatively satisfying. Otherwise I 
wouldn't want to be around it. 

When the projects that Firesign 
Theater was involved in became too 
much of an emotional strain on me 
for various personality reasons, I, 
like the rest of the group, had to 
leave the group and find some other 
alternative until we had cooled out 
sufficiently to be able to relate to one 
another again. When you're together 
for seven or eight years, it is inevi-
table ... B: Changes happen. P: Just 
like a family. You're together and 
then Sissy grows up and Big Brother 
is in a fatal automobile accident, 
Charlie has a terrible affair, scandal-
ized in the papers, Father divorces 
Mother. All those things happen in 
the normal life of individual men and 
women. And when they're working 
together in alliance, there has to be a 
professional attitude that holds the 
thing together. We are very sensitive 
personalities, and when it isn't work-
ing personally for us, we just can't 
work together. We have had several 
sabbaticals since we've been togeth-
er, and the difficulty has always been 
that the Firesign Theater would hold 
to the form of work as the only thing 
that could keep life and limb togeth-
er. In other words, the focus was the 
Firesign Theater. It was everything. 

If the Firesign Theater didn't 
exist, there was nothing. That was 
cause for great emotional anxiety, 
much of it ill-founded. Whenever one 
member or a combination of mem-
bers wanted to do something by 
themselves, the other members 
would balk at this and hold to it 
like a love affair. And I think as 
we've grown and matured, married 
and divorced, lost friends and gained 
friends, made money and lost 
money-all those things that happen 
to you-we have maintained among 
ourselves a sort of loving attitude 
that has to do with the joy that 
we get out of creating together and 
making material that, when it really 
works for us, we hope will influence a 
large audience. 

P: When we first did Firesign 
Theater, we really didn't have in 
mind any audience at all. To this 
day, we don't really have an audience:> 
in mind when we do the Firesign 
Theater material. B: We just please 
each other. P: Right, we just please 
each other. We are the school, we 
are the audience, it is the language 
between us. It has its own unique 
magic. 

B: Firesign Theater really hasn't 
changed that much. P: Not really. 
Our next record, you'll see, is a blend 
of what we've done before in a sort of 
Nick Dangeresque form. The only 
thing that I can see is happening, 
what Peter and I ate certainly aware 
of, is that it's becoming a little more 
cinematic. It's inevitable for the 
Firesign Theater to make a movie. 
Peter and I are making movies now. 
B: We just finished making a movie 
now. P: Yes, just yesterday. Today. 
Hey, it's still today. 

How do we create our material? 
Well, we plan it. We do planet. Daily 
planet. Actually, we worked together 
on a fairly ritualistic basis. We would 
say: OK. we'll define a goal we want 
to accomplish. we Y..ill commit our-
selves to the project. and we will 
create a source of income to sustain 
the project. Let's say it's a Columbia 
record. OK. Get a project number 
and ask for an advance in a certain 
amount, plan our studio time, where 
we're going to do it, plan the piece, 
and decide how much time we want 
to give ourselves to create it. 

Now those are all pretty mature 
determinations, and some artists 
don't work that way at all. Some 


--- Page 8 ---

artists work on a slow basis, with 
no real schedule, but this is the way 
the Firesign does it because there 
are four personal lives involved. So 
we come together, we put our minds 
to it, we enjoy the project, what 
comes out of it comes out of it, we 
create it, we put it on the record, 
we listen to it, make determinations 
and judgments about the design of 
the cover and it comes out. If it's 
not that, it's a movie, a radio show 
for a week or twelve weeks or fifteen 
weeks, and that involves making 
discs that we can put out to people if 
it's funny. So each project has its 
parameters. Proctor and Bergman do 
the same thing. 

Dave Ossman just put out an 
album called "How Time Flies", in 
which Peter and I and the rest of the 
Firesign Theater appear. I think 
there are more multiple projects in 
the offing for the Firesign Theater, 
because that's what splitting up for a 
while was about. Can we as individ-
uals, now that we've proved that 
there's a Firesign Theater, do things 
on our own? Can we still come 
together in different combinations 
and create art? And what will it be 
like? What'll happen if Bergman and 
Proctor get together? What'll hap-
pen if Bergman and Ossman get 
together? What'll happen if Proctor 
and Ossman get together? What'll 
happen if Bergman and Ossman and 
pen if Proctor and Bergman and 
Ossman and Austin get together on 
a project by Proctor and Bergman? 
See. This is the kind of thing that 
we're investigating. We hope it'll be 
more fascinating. 

I liked creative work at the 
Dramat, the Drama School, 
theater ... Theater was the thing that 
I was most interested in. It was 
one of the things which helped keep 
me sane during the Yale period, 
because you know there are lots of 
pressures when you're in school. I 
tried to choose courses that were 
enlightening to me in regard to the 
things that I wanted to do. I took 
a lot of philosophy courses, political 
philosophy, Shakespearean courses, 
literary courses, language courses (I 
spoke French and Russian because of 
a lot of training I had earlier than 
Yale). 

In extracurricular activities, I did 
singing and theater more than any-
thing else, and it was a great school 
for me in that regard. The thing I 
had felt about schools was that they 
never taught the skills, they never 
taught, they never trained the brain. 
They drained the brain, but they 
didn't train the brain. It was like 
demanding things of you they dido 't 
instruct you to perform. You can 
teach memory courses, you can teach 
self-hypnosis, you can teach lan-
guage courses in new ways. B: Uni-
versities and colleges teach you to be 
teachers, not learners. P: Yes, they 
teach you to be teachers. B: They've 
learned how to learn and they pass 
on those techniques. Some people 
stay here and become teachers; other 
people go off and become other 
things. You look back at your Yale 
experience and you say, "Well, I 
learned how to be a teacher, I learned 
how to do research, I learned how to 
use a library." P: Yeah, school of 
intellect as opposed to school of 
mind. B: Yes, it's not a school of 
mind. 

P: A school is an environment 
that people come to, it's like a little 
city. B: That's why they should 
make it as unrestricted as possible, 
because it is an environment. P: 
Yeah, right. But when it was restrict-
ed, people still had to respond. The 
stakes were high. The people still 
would respond in terms of their own 
nature. Some people repressed their 
nature so horribly that they self-
destructed. 

B: The first day here I realized 
that it was not what I had imagined 
it to be, because YALE was this 
four-letter word that was this 
.. 
Volum/seven, number two 1 November 25,19731 8 
thing-it had to be perfect, or at 
least it had to be incredible. And I 
got here and it was Yale, a set of 
buildings and people. You know, it 
was just life. 

I have a double feeling about 
Yale. I '11 always return to it. I'll 
return to it for the rest of my life. 
P: Schizophrenic! B: Yes, truly 
schizophrenic. At one point, it was a 
lot of hate-there were no girls, it 
was totally organized- I felt 
trapped. But at the same time I 
really dug the fact that I was at Yale. 
At some point, I was purely what 
you would call a snob. But being a 
snob was underapprr:iated. If you 
find a place that's cqmfortable and 
safe for you, then y~u can be accused 
of being a snob. Bu you just go to 
where you're safe, ou know. I felt 
so safe here I stayea six years. I 
couldn't leave. 

I think one of the things Yale 
teaches you just l}Y its environment 
is that. it gives you a chance to feel 
what it's like to ~e successful. This 
building is successful. Yale is suc-
cessful. P: This room is successful. 
B: You can get in touch immediately 
with large architecture, large goals, 
large ideas. There's no doubt about 
it. That's what you're rubbing up 
against. No matter what you want to 
do, be a lawyer for the poor, 
you've spent four years touching up 
against that much wealth, that much 
success. The discipline, too. It's all 
around you. 

Proctor and I represent a sort of 
Yale frontal attack on creating a new 
comedy. It's Yale in that it's rather 
fearless, courageous, macho in a 
sophisticated sort of way, and sopho-
moric and collegiate like the other 
side of Yale is. It's very vulnerable 
and kiddish, and it's not hard-edged. 
Yale is not hard-sell. When was the 
last time anyone came around here 
since you've been in and put any 
kind of pressure on you? They really 
treat you like a member of the select 
family. 

I was thinking big when I left 
here, and I'm sure Proctor was. 
P: Sure. B: I didn't know what I 
wanted to do. I had rejected being a 
Supreme Court Justice. I looked at 
all those things, you know. I didn't 
want to become the chief rabbi. 
I toyed with all these things, but I 
left Yale not knowing where I was 
going. I only knew that something 
was going to happen. 

· P: Even my secret society, Scroll· 
and Key, had that kind of effect on 
me. There were certain nights, 
Thursday and Sun~ay nights, you 
were supposed to meet, and I just 
couldn't be there. Now you know it 
was the tradition that you were 
there. Somebody would disappear 
from a certain function because they 
had to be there. But it was more 
important to me to be at a rehearsal 
for something that I was. doing than 
it was to be involved in that other 
activity. So I drew a solar plexus 
strain, a nervous strain during that 
time, because poomp! there was a 
commitment to this thing that had 
certain regulations and foum! there 
was the instinct of my heart, my 
mind, my feeling, and my spirit 
that wanted to be somewhere else 
expressing itself another way. And I 
made those choices and was respon-
sible for them. 

Again, that's why I say, Yale 
tempered a lot of the attitudes that I 
have now, that I've expressed in 
humor. I saw a lot of things at 
Yale. They were quite clear and 
really much like what was happening 
on the outside at that time. But 
on a smaller scale, a scale that was a 
little easier to comprehend. And it 
was certainly a family feeling that 
welcomed us here, which is why I 
think it's so fascinating that you 
have now more of a universal family 
in Yale itself. It seems to be a warm 
and friendly place, a friendly school, 
and the kind of openness that exists 
now is much more real than the kind 
of fellowship that existed when we 


--- Page 9 ---

Volume seven, number two I November 25,1973l 9 
were at Yale. But fellowship was 
also real. Maybe it had to be at a 
cocktail party. B: Remember? It was 
all males. P: Sure. All males. There 
were strange ways for men to get 
together. But they were humanly, in 
the heart and the mind, as real as 
anything could be. If they weren't 
real, they weren't real because the 
friendships weren't there. Women · 
were out of it. They just didn't 
exist. 

Yale represented then, as it prob-
ably does now, a microcosm of the 
world outside, and it was still a very 
gray-flannel world at that time. It 
was useless. B: It had no hippies. 
P: No hippies, hipless pants, and 
buttons in the back. B: Just before 
the change. 

I had my first joint sophomore 
year from Eddie Kramer, Class of 
'62. P: Eddie Kramer, right, and the 
first man in my class to die. B: 
Right, flew into a mountain in a 
plane. Chilean Airlines, or something 
like that. Remember Eddie Kramer? 
He was with Ginsberg in Europe, 
he brought back some Nepalese 
grass. It was in freshman quad. I 
was already a sophomore, and I went 
over to visit him. 

I went up to his room and he 
showed me this book with pictures of 
Ginsberg and all these other people. 
I vaguely knew who they were. He 
said, "Here's this grass I brought 
back from Nepal." He rolled up a J 
and I took two or three tokes. 
P: You didn't call them tokes or a J 
then, did you? B: No, no. I didn't 
toke on a nice J. I think he had 
this cigarette-looking thing ... It was 
thin and it was white cigarette paper, 
and it was unrolled. It was obviously 
a hand-rolled cigarette. I smoked on 
it two or three times and nothing 
happened. Had it, I have since 
thought, my entire life would have 
changed. P: But your life wasn't 
ready to change. B: No, it wasn't. 

P: I smoked marijuana several 
times before it had an effect on me 
that was important in my life. That 
was because the time at which it 
became important to me, it was 
introduced to me by a man who 
became my friend. Really, more than 
a man, it was Brandon Dewilde, who 
was an actor and who recently died. 
We became very close. I was under-
studying Brandon in a Broadway 
show. 

All this happened because I came 
to Yale to become involved in the 
Drama School, which turned out to 
be a stiff. Instead, the Dramat hap-
pened. In the Dramat in '62 were 
Austin Pendleton, who was in 
Peter's class, and Skip Hennett, and 
Sam W aterston, and Tom Liggenn 
and Billy Hennett B: and Peter 
Hunt P: Peter Hunt, actor, lighting 
man, talented director, and many, 
many talented people who were just 
there. 

Peter and I knew each other at 
Yale because Peter used to work with 
Austin Pendleton in writing Tom 
Jones and Brewster's Back in Town. 
We were not friends, we were profes-
sional associates. B: Professional 
acquaintances. P: Peter was involv-
ed in politics on the campus at that 
time, and I didn't really relate to 
this very well. I had been to the 
Soviet Union and I kind of had a 
human feeling about politics ... 

I always wanted to be in the 
theater. The only reason I came to 
Yale was because of the Yale Drama 
School. But it was like the dino-
saurs: it was the end of an era. The 
techniques they were teaching, the 
manner in which they were teaching 
them, the staff, although they were 
dedicated to the theater, they were 
representative of the theater of 
another century. 

The acting classes, I remember, 
consisted of tearing the ego of the 
individual artist down to the bare 
bones and then teaching technique 
from that. B: The dead man , yes. P: 
''Now you read this way, and you 
pronounce this way, and you create 
this way." What was interesting 
about that, and what made that 
work in spite of its limitation, 
was the same thing that I found 
exciting about Yale when I was here. 
The rules that were supposed to 
govern your behavior were in many 
instances so inhuman and ludicrous 
that the individuals who chose to 
fight against them became quite 
creative. 

When I was at Yale, there were 
many absurd experiences. Was I 
crazy? No, I was in theater. B, mim-
icking: "I wasn't crazy, I was in 
theater." P:I was around girls, and I 
had relationships of my own, and I 
was proud of them because I felt 
they were real and important to my 
life. So I used to walk girls into 
Trumbull right under the eyes of 
these campus cops, the CC, an~ they 
never even saw it, because I refused 
to live by the arbitrary rules. I 
thought it was ludicrous, a game. If I 
had ever been called on it, I would 
have gone the limit to reveal the 
absurdity of the situation. 

But funny things happened while 
I was at Yale. There was one night 
when I came back from a rehearsal at 
the Dramat and was walking along 
the street towards Trumbull and I 
saw a roommate of mine wearing a 
turtle shell on his head and on top of 
it was a candle which was lit and 
burning. This was Clyde. Walking 
about ten feet behind him wearing 
the hat and suit which they always 
wore was a campus policeman, trail-
ing him. I said, "Hi, Clyde. What 
happened? What's going on?" He 
said, "My girl is pregnant and I'm 
celebrating. I'm going to get 
married." He was living with this 
girl on weekends (and sometimes 
during the week) in the room with 
the three of us in Trumbull. He'd 
sneak her in in various ways. She 
was a smart girl. 

I had constructed this thing called 
a 'room at the top'. I don't know if 
you still have those double-decker 
beds or not. Anyway, I had taken a 
bed cover and hung it over the frame 
so that there was a nice little private 
kind of a tent at the top and then I 
put one at the bottom for my friend 
from Africa, from Johannesburg. 
He's a poet now, he's writing poetry. 
I've run into him a couple of times in 
California. 

In any event, that was happening. 
The other guy was down the hall in 
this complex (I later had my own 
room in Trumbull) and he was a 
· thief. His father was a famous 
American composer, but he was a 
kind of kleptomaniac, but in a hu-
morous way. He was another kind of 
crazy, drop-out person. I mean he 
used to go steal plastic Jesuses from 
the dashboards of cars and he'd line 
them up on our fireplace mantle. 
Some of them glowed in the dark. 

The other guy who was in there 
was an electronics genius. This was 
all in like '61, '62. He rigged the 
entire room for sound, so we could do 
all our phone calls over stereo speak· 
ers, and he constructed a light in the 
center of the room. He meticulously 
drilled a hole through a large brandy 
snifter, filled it with crushed auto 
glass from a shatterproof window 
and put little lights in it, running an 
invisible wire through it with a pul-
sator. Incredible! And this was 
before drugs. This was purely an 
attitude of life, and it existed like a 
flower grows in pavement, in the 
mystic gray walls of Yale at that 
time. All the things that people did 
in their sexual and social behavior 
were kind of absurd explosions of 
erratic repressed behavior patterns, 
and they were all very amusing in 
their own way and very horrifying 
on another level. But, in essence, it 
was as free a community as you 
wanted to make it. 0


**Title: Yale Recollections**
**Author: Peter Bergman and Philip Proctor**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

Richard Hall, a senior in Silliman, 
was co-founder and editor of the 
Yale Daily News Magazine. 




**Title: On the campaign trail with Oedipus Rep**
**Author: Michael Jacobson**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
.• 
On the campaign trail with Oedipus Rep 
by Michael Jacobson. 
John Mitchell would not like 
Watergate Classics (or, The Bug 
Stops Here). 
Not because he would feel that 
Yale Repertory Theatre Director 
Robert Brustein is assaulting a pub· 
lie long ago wearied by Johnny Car· 
son's Watergate monologues. Not 
simply because he would resent be· 
ing cast as the Tinman in Ouer the 
Rainbow. The once-Attorney Gen· 
eral would object that Brustein and 
his fellow playwrights are attribut· 
ing too much significance to the W a· 
tergate Affair. After all, comparing 
Nixon's problems to those of Oedi· 
pus Rex? Is that fair to either of 
them? 


Mitchell's knocks notwithstanding, 
the Rep's approach to "Classics" 
penetrates beyond topical humor. 
The revue's creators explore on stage 
the parallels between the Watergate 
fiasco- a contemporary tragedy-
and episodes from classic drama by 
Shakespeare, Sophocles and Beckett. 
Brustein and his Rep colleagues hope 
that the presumably non-partisan 
classic dramatists will help them to 
plumb the moral depths of the Wa-
tergate Affair. 


The idea to produce a Watergate 
revue based on the classics first oc-
curred to Brustein last year during a 
leave spent traveling in Greece, re-
tracing Oedipus' journey to Delphi. 
The news of the implication of Halde-
man and Ehrlichman had just bro· 
ken, drawing Nixon into the Wa-
tergate investigation, and Brustein was 
struck by the parallel between Nixon 
and Oedipus. He set down his ideas 
in an article called "Nixon on the 
road to Delphi," and later gave them 
dramatic form in a play called Oedi-
pus Nix. 


Back in the States, Brustein sug-
gested the revue idea to Rep mem· 
bers Jonathan Marks and Jeremy 
Geidt, who co-produced a Watergate 
spoof at the Yale Cabaret last spring. 
Marks and Geidt enthusiastically set 
about writing Sam Ervin into 
Shakespeare, resulting in a playlet 
called "Samlet." By fall, the revue 
had grown to include contributions 
by Lonnie Carter, Art Buchwald and 
Jules Feiffer. 


To direct the production, Brustein 
called on Isaiah Sheffer, a man with 
numerous film, television and stage 
productions to his credit. Sheffer 
agreed readily. "I was interested in 
this play because of the central 
idea," he explains. "It was not just 
to have a Watergate cabaret, but to 
use certain classics, which we have 
all grown up with, to make some 
sense out of what is happening." 


While to some using the classics 
to show what is universal about 
Watergate may seem to echo the 
Republican protest "But everyone 
does it!", "Classics" does not apolo-
gize for Nixon. Rather, it seeks to 
put the Watergate tragedy in the 
dramatic context of Sophocles or 
Beckett to give larger meaning to the 
acts of "a few overzealous men." 


The classics provide an appropriate 
vehicle for this task precisely 
because they address questions 
which have persistently plagued 
mankind. Brustein's "Oedipus Nix", 
for example, draws from the Sopho-
clean play whose central character 
lacks the insight to realize that he is 
the source of corruption in his own 
kingdom. 


Obviously, the entertainment 
value of the production profits from 
popular familiarity with the classics 
(and with the cast of Watergate 
heros and villians as well). Yet it is 
debatable whether the classics them-
selves are in any way enhanced by 
their topical interpretations. The 
creators of "Classics" are quick to 
point out, however, that it is not 
their purpose to "blaspheme" the 
plays from which they have drawn. 


As Geidt puts it, "How can you 
blaspheme the classics? They have 
been plumbed for new material ever 
since they've become classics." 


"We are not trying to screw up 
the classics but to make political use 
out of them," adds Sheffer. Many of 
the plays from which the Rep has 
drawn are in themselves deeply 
political: Oedipus Rex, Agamemnon, 
Hamlet. In each case, the creators 
have tried to remain true to the spirit 
of the original version. "Samlet", says 
Marks, is actually a validation of 
Hamlet's classical thought. "It's 
probably the type of thing Shake-
speare had in mind all along," he 
comments. "He just didn't get the 
newspapers." 


Perhaps Shakespeare was lucky 
that he didn't. For every form of 
political satire must deal with the 
problem of topicality: it must keep 
up with, and in some cases stay a 
jump ahead of, political events. 


With Watergate, that problem is 
particularly acute. Since the initial 
disclosures, events have occurred so 
rapidly that it is difficult to keep 
abreast of the latest developments, 
much less ponder their meaning or 
joke about them. "Watergate Clas· 
sics" was conceived during the sum-
mer, written this fall, and will run 
from November 16 through January. 


With all that has happened in the 
past three months alone, an un-
updated "Watergate Classics" in 
(continued on 
14 
Jeremy Geidt and Jonathan Marks' "Samlet".


**Title: On being physician and cancer investigator (A difficult thing to bring off)**
**Author: Beverly Kelsey**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

The best of today's scientific investi-
gators know that they cannot afford 
to bury their minds in laboratories or 
live in cubicles with obscure jour-
nals. At Yale this old stereotype 
appears to live in legend only-a 
notice for a meeting of "The Ameri-
can Society for the Perpetuation of 
Obscure Journals" is posted 
facetiously on the bulletin board of 
Dr. Joseph Bertino, chief of the Yale 
Medical School's section on oncol-
ogy, the study and treatment of 
cancer. 


What may be trend elsewhere is 
already history at Yale's Hunter 
Clinic: cancer investigators have 
been, and are, merging pure scien-
tific research with the human and 
ethical dimensions of science, dealing 
with public misconceptions, experi-
menting with human beings under 
strict guidelines with "informed con-
sent", and becoming deeply com-
mitted to doctor-researcher-family 
interactions. 


The misconceptions about cancer 
extend beyond the science pages of 
some glossy magazines, which assert 
there's no present cure for a soli-
tary phenomenon called Cancer (add-
ing, of course, that science is coming 
close); indeed, Bertino agrees it isn't 
unusual for a specialist in some other 
field to think that cancer is more 
hopeless than, say, kidney trans-
plants. 


"People think of cancer as being 
a disease and that a cure will drop 
out of the sky," says Bertino. 
"What's happening is that we're 
curing more and more cancer every 
year. Four or five disseminated (past 
local stage) cancers, most of them 
the rapidly growing types, are cured 
by drugs a percentage of the time: 
Hodgkin's disease, acute leukemia in 
children, Choriocarcinoma (cancer of 
the placenta), Burkitt's lymphoma 
(in African children), Wilms' tumor 
(childhood kidney cancer). 


COOH 
N 
NH2 
I H-o ·-w. 
HO- C ____Ll_ CNC 
N- C 
TIH u 
l 
I 
O 
C~ 


"I think we've got one of the best 
programs in the country for treat-
ing disseminated Hodgkin's. We use 
a combination of drugs (chemother-
apy) and follow that by a low dose of 
radiation therapy to all known areas 
of the disease. Eighty per cent of 
our disseminated Hodgkin's patients 
are in complete remission now, that 
is, the outlook is for cure. 


"We have ten or so patients who 
are more than two years since begin-
ning the treatment and are now off 
all therapy. They come in every three 
to six months just for a checkup." 


On the other hand, Bertino 
asserts, "We're not doing well in 
lung and colon cancers. Pancreas and 
stomach cancers are very bad. Liver 
cancer is unusual but many cancers 
will spread to the liver, in which 
case they're very difficult to manage. 
Although at present we cannot cure 
breast cancer with chemotherapy, 
there's the hope that this might be 
the next major solid tumor we can do 
something with significantly in 
chemotherapy.'' 


On the subject of common sim-
plification, another section member, 
Dr. Malcolm Mitchell added, "What 
we're doing now with our incoming 
general residents and interns is incul-
cating the positive attitude that 
'cancer' isn't a bad word. It's just 
another disease, often chronic, some-
times curable. The cancer patient can 
be very much like a patient with 
chronic kidney disease, chronic dia-
betes, or chronic anything, who we 
follow up for a longer period of time, 
making his disease better." For him 
the patients are far from resembling 
hopeless gargoyles: "We often 
remind students the patients aren't 
uniformly dead and dying.'' 


Ironically, it is the cancer patient 
who often threatens a physician, 
Mitchell says. "It isn't so much the 
problem of how to deal with a cancer 
patient but the cancer patient 
himself, just having a patient with 
cancer. A failure. You know you're 
not going to cure him, at least you 
think not. 


"Some physicians consistently 
don't tell their patients the truth. 
They'll say they have a benign tumor 
but it's going to be cured. These are 
false impressions any way you look 
at it and we have the odious but 
necessary task of telling a patient 
that he has a tumor present in such 
and such a location. Of course he's 
scared but he'd rather have specifics 
than distort things out of proportion. 
I won't say it's growing wildly wher-
ever it is but I'll say it's present ex-
actly where it is. I'll also give an ele-
ment of hope. I'll never say precisely 
'you've got a year or six months to 
live' because I'm working against 
myself by giving the patient a time. 


"Sometimes patients are told that 
they have severe anemia like an 18 
year-old girl I know. She wasn't 
being told she had a very rapidly 
growing ovarian tumor. 'Is it malig-
nant?' she asked. I said, 'Well, 
malignant to you may mean it's all 
over the body. It's not all over. You 
have it in your abdomen and liver.' 
When you talk about a malignant 
tumor to somebody you don't know 
what visions he has conjured up: it's 
all over the place, it's eating him 
up. 


In another recent case, Mitchell 
met with a cancer patient whose wife 
told Mitchell in private, "I don't 
want you to tell him all about his 
cancer. I'm not sure he can handle 
it!" So Mitchell asked, "Why do you 
think that? He seems very reason-
able. Can you handle it?" It became 
obvious she wanted to tell her hus-
band but didn't feel able to because 
her doctor thought it was a bad 
idea. "It's been killing me to have to 
hold this inside myself,'' she said. 


According to Mitchell, "The fam-
ily member or doctor thinks he's 
sparing the patient but he's always 
sparing himself. When I finally told 
the woman how I was going to tell 
her husband what he's got she said, 
'Oh thank heavens, now we can talk 
about it, the two of us.' " 


Fortunately, these encounters 
aren't routine, although they happen 
more often than the oncologists like. 
While community physicians some-
times do offer their patients either 
unfair despair or unrealistic hope, 
Bertino notes that it works both 
ways. "Some outside physicians are 
very interested, will talk with us 
about what we're going to do, and 
will help the patient evaluate 
whether it's worthwhile taking the 
drug or entering the trial. Others 
refer their patients and then have 
really no more communication with 
them. It's just up to us to talk to the 
patient." 


As a discipline, oncology doesn't 
imply any one specific therapy. 
Chemotherapy is one mode but 
oncologists also use surgery, radio· 
therapy and the newer immuno-
therapy. Immunotherapy essentially 
involves using the host's own 
immunity to help him defeat the 
tumor by stimulating this immunity, 
or giving him immunity from 
another host who has better 
immunity. 


About ten years ago the oncology 
section was created by the depart-
ments of Pharmacology and Medi-
cine under the rather in~pirational 
leadership of Dr. Arnold Welch and 
Dr. Paul Beeson, who understood 
better than most that the use of 
drugs in man should mean a very 
strong input from pharmacology and 
basic science. No longer a fledgling, 
the section now has six faculty, five 
postdoctoral fellows, two research 
nurses and a physician's assistant. 


At least twenty faculty are involved 
more tangentially. 


"The quality of our postdoctoral 
fellows has been remarkable the last 
couple of years," says Bertino. 
"When this was a new discipline in 
medicine and many schools had no 
medical oncology sections, all the 
excitement was in metabolism and 
infectious disease. Cancer treatment 
was considered kind of low down. It 
was a very investigational kind of 
program. There weren't that many 

--- Page 12 ---

effective drugs. Sporadically, good 
people with genuine scientific 
interest were applying, but in recent 
years -well, the chief residents are 
wanting to go into our program." 


Bertino looks to the future. "In 
our proposed new cancer center, we 
hope to have a cluster of people 
working together in virology, 
looking at it from different vantages: 
we expect to have a genetic virolo-
gist, a so-called biologic virologist, a 
phenomena virologist (who examines 
what happens when a virus infects 
the cell) and a structural virologist." 


Like other medical centers, Yale 
has chemotherapy clinical trials 
called Phase 1 and Phase 2 studies. 
The first phase, where the problem is 
toxicity, is to see whether the drug 
can be used at all and to establish 
the dosage range. At one time the 
drug amount was expressed in terms 
of the body weight for each species; 
it's now more often expressed in 
terms of body surface area, so 
one can calculate dosage from one 
species to another more easily. 


Once the dosage range is estab-
lished, the investigators go on to find 
out how effective the drug really is 
against a certain disease. Thus 
Phase 2. There are Yale-instigated 
trials and national group trials in 
which Yale participates. Yale can 
either participate in a national trial 
routinely (the mere injection of an 
agent in a determined number of sub-
jects) or choose to "extend" the 
national group trial by further 
research and development. A 20-
member committee of the National 
Cancer Institute acts to encourage 
more collaboration in the extensive 
and high-priority clinical trial of 
compounds. It looks at the results 
obtained, looks at the protocols 
(studies with well-defined proce-
dures) drawn up for treatment, 
makes criticisms and may recom-
mend Federal money for the 
research. 


Along with the surgeons, radio-
therapists and a statistician who sit 
on this particular review committee 
is Yale's Dr. William Creasy. Creasy 
is a biochemical pharmacologist who 
studies plant substances that may 
chemically inhibit cell division. His 
area of expertise is the mechanism of 
action of anti-cancer drugs at the 
cellular level. 


Creasy is almost a Prospero 
figure, a benign presence in his labo-
ratory island of ferns. He even 
worked with periwinkles once, those 
border flowers that don't just crop 
up in Jane Austen flower beds, but in 
chemistry labs as well. About 12 
years ago an extract of common peri-
winkle developed in Canada ("at 
least a foreign variety of this which 
has larger amounts of drug") was 
introduced in the Yale clinic for 
Volume seven, number two I November 25,1973 I 12 
toxicology studies. This extract Vin-
blastine, was found useful in treating 
lymphomas (cancer of the lymph 
system). "In fact Vinblastine is one 
of the most useful agents that's 
available. That and Vincristine 
which occurs in the same plant. 
When I came nothing was known of 
their pharmacology or biochem-
istry," Creasey says. 


Many people may start at a third of 
that dose. You may do two patients 
at that level. If you see nothing you 
go to another level, maybe twice the 
first one.'' 


Toxicity is also very much on 
Mitchell's mind. Creasey spoke of 
leukemia studies; Mitchell, besides 
supervising the bone marrow trans-
plantation program, is extending the 
OH 
0 
H 
-o-
u 
C-N-C-CH-C-COOH 
2 
1 
H 2N 


Research in the lab now involves 
three different plant drugs isolated 
elsewhere. It appears, however, that 
the "Mexican Tree Fern"(a smaller 
version of the 15-20 root plants 
growing like trees in the Vera Cruz 
region of Mexico) has the best "ser-
endipity quotient" for Creasey. 


"While I was looking for something 
else in a very old issue of Nature, 20 
or 30 years old, I found this article 
where someone had found anti-
biotic activities in some crude 
extracts of this material." 


"Creasey works on this problem in 
a room of his laboratory where he 
maintains several transplanted 
mouse tumors, on which he tests 
combinations of old as well as pos-
sible new toxic agents. "We haven't 
got the pure compound yet," he 
says. Progress in working up the ex-
tract is slow because the compound 
is highly water-soluble, but soon 
some chemists may help out in an 
effort of larger scale. 


Creasey gave one striking ex-
ample of a Phase I study running 
into an unexpected toxicity problem. 


"Some years ago we had a very big 
input developing a drug called 
Azauridine which was tried as an 
anti-leukemia agent (since that time 
used for psoriasis and other things). 
You can give a rat a good dose of 
this stuff; it appears to have no 
effect. But a dog can die if given just 
one-hundreth of that dose. How do 
you know how a human body is 
going to react in such situations? 


"Most of the other species didn't 
show nearly as much sensitivity as 
the dog. The mouse was a little more 
sensitive than the rat. As it turned 
out, humans--like rats--could tolerate 
very large doses. 


"But we didn't start at large 
doses. We started assuming that 
man was like the dog rather than the 
rat. Usually we start in the human 
with a dose considerably lower than 
the lowest dose that's been shown to 
produce toxicity in any species. 


national trial of the B.C.G. vaccine 
(a tuberculin bacillus) to discover 
what effect it has on immunologic 
function in leukemia patients and 
those with malignant melanoma (a 
dark-pigmented tumor). "There's no 
evidence that B.C.G. is a cure for 
human cancer in spite of some notor-
iety about it elsewhere last year. It's 
becoming acceptable therapy, but 
it's not standard therapy that any 
physician in the community can do. 
We do this under very strict scien-
tific control. I follow the immunity of 
all these patients in the lab by doing 
tests on the lymphocytes (corpuscles 
formed in lymph glands) to see 
whether or not they're boosting their 
immunity with B.C.G. Potentially, 
each of the patients with tumors has 
immunity to that tumor." 


Mitchell points out that animal 
systems provide an analogy to hu-
man systems that is useful in his re-
search. "Most of the animal models 
have been leukemia models because 
they're easy to work with. You need 
fewer than 100,000 cells (usually 
fewer than 10,000) to get really sig-
nificant results even in mice in im-
munotherapy research. It was natur-
al to apply the agent B.C.G. to hu-
man leukemia since the analogy was 
already there from the animal 
system." 


Bertino also chose leukemia pa-
tients for his 1972 trial of the enzyme 
carboxypeptidase Gl(CPG1)."I'm 
not so sure we've chosen the right 
kind of cancer patient to test," he 
maintains, "But when you have a 
limited amount of the drug and you 
want to demonstrate its effective-
ness and also be able to measure its 
effects on cells, then leukemia offers 
you the opportunity much better 
than other kinds of human cancer. 
Leukemia patients have the tumor 
cells in the blood so you can sample 
them to see whether the blood count 
is going up or down. If the blood 
count goes down by 50 percent or 25 
percent you can measure that accu-
rately. With solid tumors you get 
some changes that may not be 
related to drug effect." 


CPGl depletes the body's folic 
acid compounds necessary to cell 
growth, as did the enzyme methotex-
rate on which Bertino and his col-
leagues did some pioneering work for 
ten years. With a very limited supply 
of CPG 1 and with the knowledge 
that children have tested more re-
sponsively to chemical agents in the 
past than adults, Bertino's first 
group included three children and 
one woman. He sees a possibility of 
eventually using dialysis with CPG 1 
in a one or two-week program to get 
some kind of remission. If periodic 
treatment should be needed, it would 
not be the type of continuous life-
support dialysis program needed for 
patients without kidney function. 


Bertino and his colleagues hope to 
proceed to a direct strategy where 
the enzyme would be inserted 
through tubes into the patient's 
bloodstream. 


In all medical research, the ethical 
problem of coercion arises, often in 
the form of psychological arm-twist-
ing which pressures a sick person 
into trying experimental therapy. 
This problem is not foreign to 
these physician-investigators. 


Having served for five years on the 
Human Investigation Committee 
(HIC) of the School of Medicine and 
Yale-New Haven Hospital, Mitchell 
emphasizes that much strenuous 
thinking remains to be done in areas 
pertaining to experimental work 
with human subjects. Protocols, 
questionnaires and invasion of 
privacy must all be investigated. 


How do physicians get around the 
coercion problem when a patient is 
presented with a choice of therapy 
procedures without adequately 
understanding them? Here, the In-
formed Consent form is vital. The 
"Consent Form for Participation in a 
Clinical Investigation Project" con-
cludes, "Its (the project's) general 
purposes, potential benefits, and 
possible hazards and inconveniences 
have been explained to my satisfac-
tion." The procedure must be ex-
plained to him in non-technical lan-
guage, and the patient has to know 
he'll get standard therapy should he 
choose not to participate in the 
study. Not only the subject but also 
his responsible next of kin must sign 
the consent form. 


Yale's guidelines on the protec-
tion of human subjects were drafted 
in accordance with the guidelines 
issued by the Department of Health, 
Education and Welfare to all medical 
centers. These local guidelines stipu-
late that all completed protocols and 
consent forms become part of the 
permanent record of the committee's



**The Ethics of Oncology Research**
**Author: Beverly Kelsey**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
Volume seven, number two I November 25,19731 13 
proceedings and are "subject to in-
spection and review by various 
granting agencies." HIC annually 
reviews any ongoing grant proposals 
involving investigations of human 
subjects. Furthermore, the prin-
cipal investigator has the responsi-
bility of submitting a revised proto-
col whenever the nature of his proj-
ect changes in a way that might 
affect participating subjects. 

The oncologists try to detail to 
the patient everything that might 
happen in the way of side effects, 
while emphasizing that none of these 
w may happen at all. A patient's accep-
tance may depend a great deal on 
his confidence in the doctor. The on-
cology section, therefore, is quite 
aware of what might be called per-
sonality coercion, or undue defer· 
ence to the Man in the White Coat. 

" We're aware that the patient 
might feel, 'If I don't do this the doc-
tor won't like me anymore','' says 
Mitchell. "I'm not sure we ever total-
ly get around coercion but I think we 
make strides in that direction. We'd 
never give a patient an investiga-
tional agent if we had something 
that would work reasonably well. If 
we knew a drug worked 30 or 40 per-
cent of the time, even for a short 
period of time, we'd use that agent in 
preference to our newer agent. 

"The only situation in which we'd 
probably use a very strong new 
agent on a patient who is ambula-
. tory and functioning well would be 
when we know the disease would 
make him bedridden very soon. We'd 
have to believe that there would be 
a therapeutic gain.'' 

Supposing a lot of staff time and 
money has been invested in a certain 
Phase 1 trial and the seventh patient 
out of seven has had his endurance 
stretched to the limit and wants out . 
If he's intimidated by the doctor's 
aura of authority he may not broach 
his true feeling, and may not ask to 
withdraw as the Informed Consent 
form says he can. What then? 

" It depends on what kind of ther-
apeutic effects you're getting," Ber-
tino says. " If the patient is pretty 
sick and he vomits and the next day 
the blood count is improving, both 
patient and doctor feel a lot more 
. 
enthusiastic about continuing than 1f 
nothing much is happening. The 
problem you get into is having those 
bad effects with the patient not feel-
ing better or the disease not getting 
better. 

" If you get one of our unit physi-
cians who's very much interested in 
the drug. it's perhaps easy for him to 
rationalize and continue pushing 
when it's not, maybe, in the patient's 
best interest. But we criticize our-
selves. If a doctor persists in using a 
drug, getting some effects he 
shouldn't get. he gets noise back 
from the others. The patient isn't 
sequestered away and surreptitously 
fed something." 

"Sometimes there's a problem we 
run into if a drug we test is of no 
value in six or seven patients consec-
utively-itdoes give them some side 
effects-yet you need a last few 
patients in order to make sure you 
aren't missing something. That's 
hard to do. That's the problem some-
times." 

Bertino emphasized that being 
both physician and investigator is a 
hard balancing act: "Our field is apt 
to attract very scientific kinds of 
people, but I think in this area more 
than any you really have to be able 
to deal with people and patients and 
to understand yourself because it can 
get very difficult dealing with dying 
patients. We have a lot of patient-
family interaction." And the full pro-
fessors join in, not holding them-
selves aloof by using nurses as inter-
mediaries to meet families and brief 
patients. 

" We have a great floor, " Bertino 
says."We're fortunate we're not 
overloaded with patients per faculty 
member. We give the patients a lot 
of support (they need it). Our two 
special procedures nurses in Out-· 
patient are just tremendous. The 
morale is amazingly good." 

"The mythology is that we give 
drugs to people, " Dr. Mitchell con-
cluded."We don't. When you treat a 
patient you're in close collaboration 
with him. You get phone calls at 1 
am. the way a practicing physician 
does. I 've come in here at all hours of 
the day and night to take care of 
people. Clinical research really 
means three kinds of things : taking 
care of patients, teaching, and doing 
research on the patients and in the 
lab. Research here can't be non-
people oriented. It doesn't protect 
you from the buffeting of patient 
contact at all. 

"What it does is give you a differ-
ent relationship to the patient. You 
are both his physician and his inves-
tigator, a very difficult thing to 
bring off. You have ethical conside-
rations in mind while you also treat 
him investigatively. The two aren't 
at all contradictory. The best 
physician really does investigate and 
learns from the patient so he treats 
him better and the next one even 
better." 

His feeling rose: " If you restrict 
your research to mice and test tubes 
then you can avoid patients if you 
wish. But most of us would be very 
reluctant to go into a pure lab envi-
ronment. We also feel we need the 
stimulation of research to feel we're 
really doing the most for our 
patients. The basic myth that people 
who don't like patients can go into 
academic medicine b false. This is 
clinical practice plus.''O 
Beverly Kelsey, who earned an M.A. 
in.English from Yale, has published 
in the Illinois Quarterly and the 
Yale Scientific. 


**Oedipus Rep**
**Author: Michael Jacobson**
**Page number(s): 14**

Oedipus Rep 
(continued from page 10) 
January could lose a lot of political 
bite. Anthony Ulasewicz may still be 
the butt of jokes, but only for those 
who can remember who he is. 

Marks admits that he and other 
Rep members have been a little 
worried that "Classics" views 
Watergate too much from a summer 
of '73 perspective. At the same time 
however, they feel that the form of 
· the show solves much, though not 
all, of the topicality problem. "The 
production views Watergate as a 
whole and not just as a series of indi-
vidual events," Marks notes, and the 
directors have chosen "between what 
is ephemeral and what isn't." 

Still, some parts of the script 
have changed with the news. As orig-
inally written, the "Samlet" script 
gave much attention to the murder 
of a character named "Spirago." 
"But people have forgotten about 
Agnew," Geidt says, "so we cut that 
speech in half." Other sketches may 
well need changes to incorporate new 
events, but on the whole, Brustein 
notes, "History is tending to confirm 
our material." 

Like any theatrical work-and 
''Watergate Classics'' is certainly 
that-the show is written to enter-
tain its audience. But the Rep staff 
hopes the show will do more than 
simply draw laughs. They think it 
will help to clear up confusion about 
the significance of Watergate, and 
hopefully produce a jarring moral 
effect on the audience. As Marks 
emphasizes, "we're writing for 
content, not just to be cute." 

The political tone of "Classics," 
as the authors do not hesitate to 
admit, expresses their own political 
feelings. Marks is careful to explain, 
however, that creating a politically-
charged revue is "quite distinct from 
an actor using his name to support a 
candidate. It's not like saying 'I'm 
famous so listen to what I have to 
say.' Our goal is not to preach but to 
use talent to express feelings and to 
entertain. We are doing it through 
the art form." 

Critics may argue that this per-
sonal expression in the Watergate 
revue does not belong on the stage of 
a major repertory company. To that 
criticism, Director Brustein replies: 
"The Yale Rep is a theater that looks 
backwards and forwards in history. I 
111111111111111111111111111111111 
Tremendous 
Savings 
on 'Genuine' 
Publishers' 
Remainders 
INCLUDING 
ON LY $1.00 
originally $3.95 to $6.50 
PINGET 
BERGONZO 
TILLICH 
OUR AS 
BARTHELME 
AGEE 
The Inquisitory 
The Spanish Inn 
On t he Boundary 
L' Amante Anglaise 
City Life 
Letters of James 
Agee to Father Flye 
111111111 
<i-~'> 
.CARACCIO 
Stendhal 
Originally $6.00 
Now $2.00 
DEVEREUX Mohave Ethnopsychiatry 
Originally $16.50 
Now $4.98 
PIAGET 
lnc;ights and Illusions of Philosophy 
Originally $8.95 
Now $1.98 
GOMBROWICZ T he Marriage 
Originally $4.95 
Now $1.00 
THE YALE CO-OP 
77 Broadway, New Haven 
STORE HOURS 
Daily 9:15-5:30, Thursdays Until 9 
Volume seven, number two I November 25,19731 14 
felt that it was consistent with that 
philosophy to take a classic and give 
it a contemporary interpretation. 

"We personally, and hopefully a 
larger group of people, feel that the 
country needs a theatrical purge to 
express some free-floating feelings. 
The purpose of the production is to 
show that theater is related to real 
crises." 

This relation between the theater 
and real crises is not always clear. 
The audience may ask of "Water-
gate Classics" "Is this Art?" with 
the same incredulity as a parent ask-
ing if the Rolling Stones actually 
play Music. But drama has never 
existed in a vacuum. It has always 
been a means to deal with the real 
world. The re-interpreted plays in 
"Classics" are political, but this 
dimension does not automatically 
remove them from the realm of art. 
Nor does it make the Rep a political 
theater. Brustein notes that Chekov 
once said, "Great writers must con-
cern themselves with politics only 
insofar as it is necessary to put up a 
defense against politics.'' 

Of course, no discussion of Water-
gate can avoid dealing with the ulti-
mate political possibility of impeach-
ment. Impeachment could have 
several different effects on "Water-
gate Classics." It could, for example, 
complete the parallel between 
Oedipus and Nixon. On the other 
hand, it could make the show past 
history in a hurry. 

Even though the creators of 
"Classics" feel the work may have a 
validity that could withstand 
Nixon's demise, members of the cast 
still worry that Nixon may be im-
peached. But Marks, who founded a 
Teenage Republican Club in Hamil-
ton County, Ohio, quickly adds that 
the worry "is strictly show-biz." 0 
, , 
Michael Jacobson is a junior history 
major in Berkeley College. 


MA COFFEE SHOP 
Monday-Friday: 9 am to 4:00 pm 
LORD'S CAFE IN COMMONS Monday- Friday: 11 :45 am to 1:30pm 
KLINE BIOLOGY TOWER Monday-Friday: 9 am to 2 pm 
Continental Breakfast: 9-11 
Lunch: 11:30-1 :30 
Light Lunch: 1:30-2 
CAFE IN COMMONS Sunday-Thursday: 8 :30 pm to 1:00 am 
OUR PEE SWEET SHOP Monday- Friday: Noon to 4:30pm 
7 :30pm to 1:30am 
Saturday & Sunday: 7:30pm to 1:00am 
TAKE A BREAK AND GET A BITE TO EAT! 
.. 


**Pan-pipes and Pianos**
**Author: Alan Strasser**
**Page number(s): 15**

Volume seven, number two I November 25,19731 15 
Pan-pipes and Pianos 
(continued from page 2). 
cert Manager Vincent Oneppo called 
Zamfir "the world's greatest living 
virtuoso" on the pan-pipe. While in 
the U.S. such brilliance is given the 
same adulation as is washboard· 
playing, pan-pipe playing is hailed in 
Rumania, where it is taught in con-
servatories, and where ~amfir ' s per· 
formances have made him a national 
hero. Swiss critic Renee Cervan 
called Zamfir, who is famous 
throughout Europe,"an unequaled 
virtuoso, a sensous poet, positively 
miraculous." 

The other series are the Yale 
Piano ~eries and 'Great Quartets of 
theW orld ·. The latter appeals to 
what ·program co-ordinator Roger 
Hall calls "a ready-made string· 
quartet audience." He adds, "uni· 
versity areas such as Yale are more 
prone to go for such intellectual, and 
in a way snobbish, tastes." Hall 
boasts "I think it would be difficult 
to put together a stronger series. We 
have included the Guarneri, Julliard, 
and Amadeus quartets, which are 
among the finest around today." The 
series was sold out in September . 

. The Sprague Hall series com· 
plement the Woolsey Hall concerts 
(which feature big-name soloists) 
and the Music School Sanford Lee· 
tures and Ellington Series (which 
presents great Afro-American 
musicians). Though the music pro· 
gram is compartmentalized, the 
overall structure of music offerings 
is an integrated whole. Rather than 
presenting diversity within each 
series. as they did last year, the 
M ~;~sic School provides balance 
among the series. 

Perhaps most important, the Uni· 
versity is seen. as the party bringing 
culture to New Haven. 
Alan Strasser

We're New Haven County's authorized Mercedes-
Benz dealer. We're an authorized Fiat dealer as 
well, and can show you the complete line of Fiat 
cars-b~ught by more Europeans than any other 
make. 
THE NELKE IVIDTDR CD. 
"'18315 DIXVIIIEL.L. .,._., HAIVICIIN R-·-e4"'18 
Prri)Oirrd by Th10 St~ Conc10rn



**Title: what's the gimmick with • -----pr1ce----**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
what's the gimmick with 
• 
-----pr1ce----
We seU for less because we don't want to be 
undersold. Our huge buying power (over 20 
stores throughout the eastern United States) 
assures you of getting the best equipment 
from us for less. 
---warranty--
we·re the original people to offer more than 
just what the manufacturer does. The other 
stores in ·town continue to sell the copies for 
the same price we sell the original. Besides, 
no one can compete with us in co-operationf 
why should You. pay list price for any stereo component? 
If you're looking for a stereo this is one question you should have asked yourself by now. It's tf:le question we kept asking ourselves until we 
finally began Audio Components (over 5 years ago) so we began and will always continue to discount stereos. Thanks to our satisfied cus-
tomers, we excel in buying for less, keeping our overhead down, so we can guarantee we sell it for less. All year long we seH different brands 
of Hi-Fi for less. For example examine this Pioneer system. 
The Pioneer Speaker • 
A truo1y -•nt -
... ndlly ......... .,d --"tv P<M>Od Tho CS'" .-..... ., -·-,._,., . .... 
pht~ 
of ., .. ,'Y tor.,.._ T Nil ,,.,..,_, ... tP0n.,,..., tO·Itte tpattlll ,.&tt-ont and full f~ 
~ 
. .. 
..,.... thoM ,,. ... .,. • ,. .. _ .. to own 
7 J 
The Pioneer Receiver 
Vatue wtth vMu•. the '.on.' q~~tlktfl wttf\ PtonHt".l •nct>echb .. tec;:ewer , the SX• .t24 Wtd\ th tentAtfW'e FM .,,., 
Md powtfful, clean tmpM•r . ttut AM/FM s.,--.o re-ct.wr u tt. cftotc:a of UtrM .... ,u llnCf Mus.c: tower• ~­
Wtth ptOWI"MOnS fOr an edd on tiiPI deck , fl'lltf\1·~• speik•r •lKtor and·~.._. w.·,.. .,,. you"ll Jow 
" The BSR Turntable. 
¥H: c:ompM:• lhtt _.,ty IY~--' ••lh 1M lle1t of tumUible .-...s. the 8SR 2tO AI X. w•• a S40 AOC c•trtdwt 
l~t 
_..t-nt lllbt ~ 
P"•• as A, they...,. 11 N ktnd of,._..._.....,.., • ..,,_,.,_ allcJut . But 
..__ no ...ore bec.u• 
THE TOTAL LIST PRICE Of THIS 
UNIQUE PIONEER SYSTEM IS $439 
AS USUAL WE'RE SELLING IT FOR LESS DOLLARS 
$338 
A SAVINGS Of $101. 



t:==.=:====our deal on speakers is the best in townl=-=========l 
Everydayof theweekexpect atleastl 
SaVe OVer $400 On a 
AR 
KLH 
DYNACO 
1
p~~v!,!f 
SIIPEIL.BOSE 
Depending on specific model and cabinet selection. 
system 
But sometimes even we strongly recommend paying 
list price because a few companies list prices are big 
d iscounts. One of these companies is 
ADVE'\T 
Just think about it, Advent's list price hasn't changed in four years. 
In our stores and natronwide they've been best sellers for years and 
if they were great then by now they've got to be steals! 
ADVENT LOUDSPEAKERS 
CASSETTE DECK 
PRICED ACCORDING TO CABINET CHOICE 
--
WALNUT $116 ea. UTILITY (VINYL) $102 ... 
MOOEL 201 $280.00 
SMALL ER $70 ea. 
A DDITIONALLY, HERE'S ONE MORt OFFER NO ONE ELSE WILL: MAKE YOU; 
Audio Component•s One-Year Speaker Protection P~ : Du ring the first year we wiJt 
allow your recommended full purchase price towards lN'IY mo..- expenSAve speaker we 
carry. provided your spealutrs are in new condition and you -have retained the. original 
packing material. Reducttoru must be ll')ade f~ cabinet<*~'! •
31 Broadway (Above Cutler's Record Store) 772--0000 
Open Daily from 10 AM t o 6 PM 
Thursday 'til 9 PM 
From pow until November 30, when you buy a BOSE 901 SERIES II 
Speaker System and a BOSE 1801 Amplifier, Audio Components will 
give y ou a -cond pair of 901s FREE ! You get twice the sound at over 
20% savings during this special SUPER·BOSE SERIES II introduction. 
Come in antt•hearthe SUPI!'R-BOSE System tOd. y ":" : :- the'sound and-the 
price i"pak~ this one offer vou:tl find t}ard 10 refuset, 
S~ER BOSE with STANDARD 901s 
Bose 901, Series II induding 
REGULAR PRICE $1944 
new active equalizer depend-
' 
SPECIAL $1511 
ing on cabinet sele~tion 
-1!111~ PRICE 
$525 to$565a pan. 
even the price sounds good! 

