Publication date: September 2009
Volume: 42
Issue number: 1

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editor-in-Chief: Ben Lasman
- Managing Editors: Sarah Nutman, Kate Selker
- Designer: Aimee Marquez
- Production Manager: Haley Cohen
- Associate Editor: Kanglei Wang
- Copy Editor: Elsie Kenyon
- Senior Editor: Laura Zax
- Production Staff: Timothy Shriver, Samantha Ellner, Helena Malchione, Abigail Owen-Pontez
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Roger Cohn, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred _Strebeigh, _Thomas Strong
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kmtz-Phelan, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Emily Bazelon, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Daphne Chu, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox; Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tma Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O'Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax · C. Randal, Robert Randolph, R. Anthony Reese, Rollin Riggs, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Jessica Winter, Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- SNAPSHOTS - 
- GRAY MATTER - Haley Cohen
- CONNED ARTISTS - Sarah Nutman
- TWELVE STEPS BACK TO SALVATION - Kanglei Wang
- WAR OF THE WARD - Laura Zax
- A Hoop Dream Deferred - Ike Wilson
- LETTERS TO *The New Journal* - 


**Title: GRAY MATTER**
**Author: Haley Cohen**
**Page number(s): 9**

When it comes to racial profiling, are Yalies as 
smart as they think?


**Title: CONNED ARTISTS**
**Author: Sarah Nutman**
**Page number(s): 14**

Noah Charney claims to be the world expert on art 
crime. But does his work need a second look?


**Title: TWELVE STEPS BACK TO SALVATION**
**Author: Kanglei Wang**
**Page number(s): 22**

Retail, rehab and reticence at New Haven's Salva-
tion Army store.


**Title: WAR OF THE WARD**
**Author: Laura Zax**
**Page number(s): 7**

The messages of aldermanic candidates Lisa Hopkins and Greg 
Morehead could not be more different. But will Yale students 
bother to listen?


**Title: A Hoop Dream Deferred**
**Author: Ike Wilson**
**Page number(s): 28**

[This is a Personal Essay]


**Title: LETTERS TO *The New Journal***
**Author:**  [Various]
**Page number(s): 30**

[This is an Endnote]


**Title: SEASONAL DECORATIVE DISORDER**
**Author: Ari Berkowitz**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
. 


SEASONAL DECORATIVE 
DISORDER 
Each year, a few days before December 
25, my family marches like the Magi into 
our garage. We carry three large boxes 
into our living room and spend the rest of 
the evening de-boxing and re.,..dressing our 
seven-foot tinsel tree. Most of the orna-
ments once came in a color-coordinated 
set, but others are special ones from our 
travels. 

Some were impulse buys, some 
were presents, but all are necessary to make 
our tree look and feel complete. When the 
boughs are amply decked, we unwrap the 
plug from around the base of the tree. We 
flip the switch and stand together, gazing 
at the beautiful Christmas tree glowing in 
our Jewish home. 

I have always loved Christmas. Anyone 
who has ever lived with me can attest that 
the holiday madness and Christmas. music 
starts promptly on November 1 annually 
and without fail. Having left Chicago, I 
. can no longer listen to 101.9 FM for all 
my Christmas needs, but I have found 
online radio stations that keep me from 
having a Blue Christmas. Some may think 
that this Midwestern girl gets into the spir-
it too early. They may be right. But since 
moving to New England, I have noticed 
that I'm not alone. In small red barns and 
shopping malls throughout the Northeast 
you may find my like-minded peers in the 
form of Year-Round Christmas Shoppes 
(spelled with a "pe" of course). 

The evolution of Christmas has been 
a long one, but the real start of the com-
modified tradition began after 1880, when 
the machines of the industrial revolution 
began to pump out shiny toys for little 
girls and boys. With unheard of speed, to-
4 
day's capitalist Christmas was born. The 
creation of Santa as a jolly, bearded figure 
began in 1863 with a cartoon by Thomas 
Nast, and Santa soon found himself in the 
company of a great array of other Christ-
mas characters like Rudolph, who trotted 
onto the scene in 1939. These characters 
began to decorate both private trees and 
the public pines of city- sponsored tree 
lightings. 

Beginning in the 1950s, one 
could walk into any department store 
and find Santa on a red velvet seat wait- . 
ing to hear children's hopes and dreams 
for that year's hot products. As the craze 
for holiday paraphernalia grew and stores 
began to carry great arrays of ornaments 
and lights. entrepreneurs realized the eco-
nomic potential of renting out empty lots 
to house independent seasonal Christma.S 
tree and decoration stores. 

In the early 1980s a few shops took the 
concept further when it became apparent 
that they could minimize costs in storage if 
they rented out a space for the year. What 
do you do with a store full of dancing trees 
and synthetic holly in June? It seemed 
only fair to have the stores of Christmas 
• 
cheer open wide for all to peer. The idea 
caught on in small towns across the East. 
Stores began to pop up in quaint wood-
en homes and red barns like the G and 
L Country Barn & Christmas Shop, the 
Bayberry Barn · Christmas Shop, and Per-
rotti's Country Barn & Christmas Shoppe 
·in Connecticut ( the verdict is still out on 
-
whether that is the ubiquitous Yale Chief's 
other profession ... ) . 

The manager of G andL Country Barn, 
Tim Kettle, says that people are drawn to 
the festive atmosphere of his store. "I think 
it is the red ·color of the barn and the warm 
feeling that you get when you walk in," he 
says. ''A back to the country feeling." Nev-
ertheless, Kettle knows that a red barn and 
a New England location do not ensure a 
magic ticket to perennial Christmas suc-
cess. "You really have to remember that 
you will not make any money for the first 
15 years," he said. Only once locals and 
seasonal vacationers come back year after 
year do the small stores gain reputations 
and big bucks. 

During 
the 
off-season, 
Chrisunas 
stores take a different tack, trading images 
of Claus for New England clam chowder, 
substituting sleighs for seashells, and gen-
erally capitalizing on the ornaments and 
traditions that symbolize the Northeast. 
"We do sell lots of ornaments year round 
here, but the ones with a summer look or 
ocean theme tend to sell better," Kettles 
says. "People that are on vacation always 
want to bring home something that will 
remind them of our store or something 
that they have done in the area." He holds 
to the three golden S's of the tchotchke 
trade: "Swimming, seaside, sports." 

Small towns are not the only ones that 
let the most wonderful time of the year last 
all year. The New England-based Christ-
mas Loft boasts six store locations across 
the region. If a New Englander begins to 
crave the cold, they can always head over 
to the Christmas Loft for life-size Christ-
mas villages located in two of the outlets. 
Once there, browsers can find makeshift 
ch~rches, an old country store, even a cov-
ered bridge while a mechanical Santa in-a 
sleigh flies over the fake town. 

These stores make green . selling the 
red and green all year, but they have no-
ticed that they can, like the barns in tiny 
towns, focus sales on the wandering tour-
ist. Ronnie Vander Veer, vice president 
and co-owner of The Christmas Loft and 
co-owner, says that visitors love the spec-
tacle, claiming that "going into a highly 
decorated, magical Christmas store is an 
experience." When people step out of the 
reality and into their Christmas fantasies, 
everything begins to sell. Vander Veer says, 
"We sell thousands of ornaments, both lo-
cal, state-themed ornaments and just orna-
ments for people to give others: personal-
ized pieces, pets, and more." 

Like me, Mrs. Vander Veer swears by 
Christmas. Visitors will find holiday tunes 
turning the hottest days into visions of 
snowy sidewalks. But not all stores are the 
same. Kettle sees the magic of Christmas, 
but often finds it a bit too cheery. "Don't 
get me wrong," he said, "I have six trees 
in our house decorated and over five thou-
sand white lights outside my house. But 
I am a little crazy when it comes to Hal-
loween. We do a two-car garage over as a 
walk-through fun house. Very scary." 

But as long as they don't make it a goal 
to sea re away the customers, New England 
visitors and residents can expect to see 
THENEWJO 


**Title: FARM TEAM**
**Author: Maya Siedler**
**Page number(s): 5**

FARM TEAM 
Summer offers a fruitful exchange for 
some ofYale's more agri-minded students. 
Some trade squash rackets for rows ofbut-
ternut; others swap the Sterling stacks for 
sterling steel rakes; a . few leave Elm Street 
for avenues of apple orchards. This year, 
equipped with shovels, spades, and a desire 
for something different, these Yalies left 
behind the gothic buildings and coffee-
fueled all-nighters to step into the world 
ofWWOOF. 

Sporting a catchy and contagious ac-
ronym, World Wide Opportunities on 
Organic Farms is a global organization 
spanning 43 different countries. From the 
rice terraces of Luzon, to the sheep farms 
of New Zealand, to the lavender fields of 
Provence, this network facilitates commu-
nications between volunteers and organic 
farms. The premise is simple; both host 
and volunteer pay a small fee in order to 
publicize and access information about 
organic worksites. Once a WWOOFer 
has selected their farm of choice, they of-
fer free labor in exchange for a roof over 
their head and fresh, organic food on their 
plate. The key, of course, is browsing the 
scores of options and finding which olive 
farm or vineyard is right for you. Think of 
it as agricultural match.com. 

Each summer, more and more students 
across the world are rejecting the tradi-
tional summer internship or study abroad 
course in order to participate in this agrar-
ian exchange program. So why the sud-
den flock to the outdoors? Why the new-
found penchant for physical labor? There 
are, of course, many enticing aspects of 
WWOOF: the allure of travel (and cheap 
September 2009 
travel at that), of escape into the sylvan 
landscape, of having a good story in your 
back pocket. Yet, in addition to globetrot-
ting the world via farms, WWOOF also 
offers a personal journey for its partici-
pants. 

While the organization is a leading 
advocate for environmentally conscious 
lifestyles, it also takes great interest in the 
individual growth of its volunteers. Sue 
Coppard, the founder of WWOOF, be-
gan cis a secretary from London who, after 
years of frenzied metropolitan streets was 
eager to feel the earth between her toes. · 
She recognized that urbanites needed ac- · 
cess to country life just as much as farms 
needed the helping hands of city dwell-
ers. Working on a farm not only reunites 
WWOOF volunteers with nature, but also 
offers them the chance to learn by physi-
cally interacting with the world, as op-
posed to simply studying it in a classroom. 

Eliza Bagg, SM '12, spent her sum-
mer WWOOFing on a plot in Maine not 
because she wanted to be a farmer, but in 
order, she says to experience "a lifestyle 
in which you connect yourself intimately 
with the processes of the world around 
you." A farmer works seven days a week, 
and while the work itself varies little from 
day to day, it puts him in constant contact 
with the elements that make it possible for 
living things to grow and thrive. 

As Bagg suggests, this arrangement pro-
vides a stern contrast to our student life, 
where we work to distance ourselves from 
the world via iPods, text messages, and ac-
tivities that busy our fingers and brains but 
neglect the rest. "Working on a WWOOF 
farm, you can literally take a seed, watch 
it grow, harvest its fruit, and transform it 
· into a product," says Bagg. "The world has 
a richer story that it is trying to tell us if 
we can just let ourselves go out, breathe 
it in, and accept it." WWOOF volunteers 
prepared to yield to Mother Nature are 
rewarded with a new, deeper relationship 
with nature not bound by the pages of an 
Ecology 115 textbook. 

So next summer, if there isn't a special 
job calling your name, head out of the 
library, hand in your laptop for a set of 
Carhartt gloves; and roll up your sleeves. 
It may be time to start digging. 


**Title: EASY RIDER**
**Author: Kate Selker**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

EASY RIDER 
People always say "It'll all go by so fast, 
you know," and I never quite believe them. 
You tell yourself the summer's so long, but 
it's always gone in thirty seconds. So I 
guess common wisdom is right. Time Flies 
When You're Having Fun. After some first-
hand research last night, I propose a cor-
rolary: Time Slogs When You're Flying. I 
went to the carnival this summer, in Paris, 
France. Before I got on "The Boomerang," 
I was told "It'll go by so fast!" Friends, you 
were lying. I was on that ride forever. Hell, 
I might still be on it. 

The carnival, set in the Tuileries, was 
large and varied in its offerings. There was 
a classic Ferris Wheel, the token rickety 
coaster, and a cheery shoot-the-duckie 
booth. There was even a funhouse that 
poofed air up the skirts of every woman 
who walked out its door, Marilyn Mon-
roe-style, answering our naive pre-entry 
questions about that big crowd of men 
lined up outside. There were the requisite 
kiddie rides, accepting individuals too tiny 
to hop on anything else, and there were 
the not-so-kiddie rides, accepting only 
individuals brave souls with a death wish. 
Those gut wrenching, eyeball flipping, 
larynx eroding contraptions that spared 
not one swoop, twirl, or sudden drop. 

The Boomerang was among these elite. I 
~ 
stepped on, an ignorant victim, drawn in 
by peer pressure and bright colors. (Always 
the peer pressure and bright colors; .. ). 

I am usually proud of my vocabulary. 
I love thinking about words and using a 
lot of them. On the Boomerang, howev-
er, my inner dictionary was melted away 
faster than a gelato puddle in the sun. At 
the initial rounds and turns, my phrasing 
was set back fifty years, and I could only 
utter "gee-WHIZ gee WHIZ gee WHIZ" 
and "Lordy! Lordy! LORDY LOU!" 
(where this second phrase came from, 

only the Boomerang Gods know). fu the 
ride went faster, I said nothing, emitting 
only howls, screams, laughs, and wails. I 
could say nothing but "HOLYMOTHER-
FUCKINGSHIT." Over. And over. It felt 
somewhat less problematic to be shouting 
profanity at the top of my lungs because 
people couldn't understand the · English, 
although I think it was clear I was some- . 
what distressed. 

I decided to console myself with a new 
ride, the Caterpillar of Joy. I am not sure 
that this is what it was called, but I am 
sure that this is what it would've wanted 
to be called, had it been given a choice. 
The Caterpillar of Joy involves a big, lar-
val, worm-like contraption that you sit in-
side as it creeps over a roller coaster track. 
Some may have called this a "kiddie ride," 
and indeed, I believe it may have been, 
as the average age of passenger seemed to 
be about eight. Nonetheless, I came, he 
crawled, I conquered. 


**Title: WAR OF THE WARD**
**Author: Laura Zax**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
WAR OF THE WARD 
Ward 22 aldermanic 
candidates face off. 
By LauraZax 
PoP QUIZ: A student living in Silliman, 
Timothy Dwight, Morse, Stiles, or Swing 
Space is a resident of which New Haven 
ward? If you're a freshman who's stumped 
by the question, there's no need to be 
ashamed. Most seniors couldn't answer it 
either. This fact is an obstacle the alder-
manic candidates for Ward 22-the ward 
that includes not only those five Yale resi-
dences, which comprise about one forth 
of the ward's voters, but also the Dixwell 
neighborhood located just north of cam-
pus--face as they prepare for the primaries 
that will take place on September 15th. 
The first name on the ballot for Ward 
22 will be incumbent Greg Morehead, 
who took the seat in the spring of 2007 as 
a result of a special election and proceeded 
to win the seat again the following fall. 
Though Dixwell resident and three-time 
alderman candidate Cordelia Thorpe will 
also appear on the ballot, Morehead's most 
credible challenger is Lisa Hopkins, a com-
munity organizer who unsuccessfully ran 
against him in both 2007 elections. With 
only two weeks to reach out to the ward's 
student constituents, the candidates are 
racing to introduce themselves to the many 
Yale voters who do not even recognize their 
names, including freshmen in Timothy 
Dwight and SiUiman who have just arrived 
on campus. 

And it probably won,t hurt 
Morehead$ image on campus 
that he is a drummer who has 
backed big name acts such as 
Mary J Blige and Bobby Vtzl-
entino at venues illustrious as 
Madison Square Garden and 
the Apollo Theater. 
September 2009 
It's not surpnsmg that Morehead, a 
public school teacher and father of four, 
has focused on youth issues during his 
two years in office. His current platform 
includes continuing to support the youth 
open mic nights he helped begin, and revi-
talizing the Q House, a now defunct youth 
center that is an important symbol to the 
Dixwell community. Even if some Yalies 
fail to recognize how such measures di-
rectly affect them in terms of safer street or 
a more livable community, they will have 
trouble denying the benefits they would 
reap from Morehead's plan to pursue the 
creation of a Bolt Bus route from New 
Haven to New York and Boston. At 31, 
Morehead is among the youngest of New 
Haven's alderpeople, a quality that might 
appeal ro the student demographic. And 
it probably won't hurt Morehead's image 
on campus char he is a drummer who has 
backed big name acts such as Mary J. Blige 
and Bobby Valentino at venues illustrious 
as Madison Square Garden and the Apollo 
Theater. 'Tm nor going to support a candi-
date because he's cool," says Ben Shaffer, YC 
'09, though he admits Obama is an excep-
tion. But Shaffer, who is the deputy man-
ager for Mayor John DeStefano's reelection 
campaign, and who has volunteered for 
Morehead since 2007, concedes that the 
candidate is, well, super cool. And though 
opponents have critiqued Morehead for 
seeking popularity-by-association-brows-
ing through photos of him with celebrities 
on the Ward 22 website does, at times, 
feel like surfing the facebook page of a scar 
gawker-Shaffer points out that Morehead 
has used his connections for the benefit 
of the ward. Last spring. for instance, he 
brought Ludacris--in whose backup band 
Morehead once drummed-co New Ha-
ven ro speak to at-risk youth. 

Bur more important than whom More-
head backs is who backs him. The city's 
Democratic machine is Morehead's po-
litical base: he is the Democratic Party's 
endorsed candidate and is supported by 
Mayor DeStefano. Morehead attests that 
his connections with City Hall do not 
interfere with his ability to represent his 


constituents' needs. 
"Walk with me in · 
bixWell and you'll see I know the people, 
care about their problems and work with 
them to get things done. Walk any street 
with me and you'll see my lawn signs in 
support of my re-election," he wrote in 
an email interview. Morehead's dose as-
sociation with what Thorpe criticizes as 
the city's "democratic hierarchy" no doubt 
gives him a .leg up 1n the election. Yet it 
is this very association that moves Hop-
kins, who believes the ·drummer-cum-
politician fails to march to his own beat 
to challenge _Morehead. Hopkins repre-
sents what Andrew Feldman, Treasurer 
of the Yale Democrats, calls the "tnayor-
skeptical" demographic of Ward 22. Ac-
cordingly, she plans to expand the city's 
Youth at Work program, create neighbor-
hood block watches, Work for an increase 
in homeowner advocacy and eviction pro-
tection, and improve access to services for 
senior citizens. But what makes Hopkins 
stand out is her overarching platform, her 
claim that she would provide checks and 
balances to City Hall by serving on the 
board of aldermen. "A breath of fresh air 
finally! Join the movement oflndependent 
Voices," reads one user's posting on an ar-
ticle about the election in the New Haven 
Independent. 

Hopkins' freedom from machine poli-
tics has taken its toll in the past. During 
the 2007 campaigns, while Morehead was 
able to use connections to get through 
Yale's gates to speak with potential student 
constituents, Hopkins was not so lucky. 
Without widespread campus support, the 
colleges were impenetrable to the candi-
date, who ultimately lost the race. 
But 
Hopkins learned from her past experience, 
and this time around she has been mak-
ing a pronounced effort to reach Yalies 
in Ward 22. She proactively organized a 
meeting with undergraduates before. the 
campus cleared for the summer, recruit-
ing student volunteers who will host her 
within the colleges in the weeks before the 
election. She has even joined Facebook, 
creating her own page to connect to the 
generation of internet addicts she hopes to 
soon represent. "Communication is key," 
says Hopkins. She sees her Facebook page 
as the "start of something much bigger," 
just one small aspect of an improvement 
in community dialogue that she hopes to 
lead. 

Critics of Hopkins were surprised by 
her outreach to the Yale community. In 
the 2007 election, the anti-establishment 
candidate sometimes came off as anti-Yale. 
"For any person in my opponents' camp 
to formuate the idea that I am anti-Yale 
is ridiculous. More than anything I think 
there should be a cohesive relationship be-
tween Yale and the residents of Dixwell," 
said Hopkins. "We're finally coming to a 
place where we're trying to build a com-
munity together, and that's not by separat-
ing the ward into two separate denomina-
tions." Nevertheless, opponents are still 
skeptical, deeming attention to Yale stu-
dents nothing more than political strategy. 

From january through july o 
2009, he was absent at 12 o 
the 14 meetings held by the . 
three committees on which he 
sits, including four o the ve 
meetings o 
Comm.ittee, 
Vice Chair. 
the Public Sa -ety 
o which he is 
Morehead is not free of playing politics 
· himself Those seeking to oust Morehead . 
call him a mouthpiece for the mayor, a 
political puppet focused on · advancing 
DeStefano's agenda rather than catering to 
his constituents' needs. "I am able to work 
with City Hall to improve our Ward and 
because of that I am attacked?" Morehead 
responds to the criticism. Meanwhile, op-
ponents cite his disappointing attendance 
record at committee meetings as testament 
to his lack of motivation. From January 
through July of2009, he was absent at 12 
of the 14 meetings held by the three com-
mittees on which he sits, including four 
of the five meetings of the Public Safety 
Committee, of which he is Vice Chair. 
(He attests that he was struggling with· 
health issues, undergoing and recuperat-
ing from surgery on his foot). "From what 
I understand Greg made promises about 
being the students' alderman, but once 
he got elected he has hardly showed up," 
says Pierson junior Rhiannon Bronstein, a 
Hopkins supporter. 

"Showing up" for an Elm City alder-
man does not only mean attending com-
mittee meetings. Giving someone a job 
application or visiting them when they're 
~ sick ·while that's not headline news, that's 
a lot of what aldermen do," agrees Ben 
Shaffer. The fact that few 
if any 
Yalies 
will go to their aldermen for such services 
has led some students to ask themselves 
not whom to vote for in the alderman elec-
tion, but rather whether they should vote 
at all. "There's always this 'should Yalies 
vote in ·New Haven' question," explains 
Shaffer. After all, many Yale students live 
happily within a bubble whose boundar-
ies are Payne Whitney, Timothy Dwight, 
and Old Campus. While Yalies debate 
which dining hall to have dinner in, many 
of their Dixwell neighbors, 25o/o of whom 
are living below the poverty level, are won-
dering how they are going to afford dinner. 
While Yale will graduate roughly 95o/o of 
this year's seniors, last year saw a 45°;0 
dropo1,1t rate from one New Haven high 
·school. 

So, should transient college students 
have a say in local politics? 
Bronstein 
thinks ~o. "This is where we're spending 
four of the most important and formative 
years of our lives, and we're tasked with 
learning the skills about how we want to 
live no matter where we end up," she says. 
"One of the skills we should want to learn 
is how to be plugged into the community 
, 
youre a part o. 
Though Feldman agrees, he under-
stands where students who fail to show 
up to the voting booth on the 15th are 
coming from. 
The alderman race for 
Ward 1 
the "Yale Ward" 
penetrated 
campus. But "Ward 22 is a harder case," 
explains Feldman. "Yale is a minority in 
the Ward, and we're transient ... .In Ward 
22, it's harder to care about local politics," 
alluding both to the limited status ofYalies 
within Ward 22, and Ward 22 Yalies on 
campus. Yet they still make a sizable bloc, 
one that each candidate needs in order to 
Wln. 
'When voters take to the booth on Sep-
tember 15th whether they be lifetime 
residents of Dixwell or departing seniors 
in Silliman 
they'd do their neighbor-
hood a favor to keep in mind who best can 
unite, and not what most separates, the 
residents ofWard 22. · 
Laura Zax is a senior in Silliman Colkge, 
and the Senior Editor ofTNJ 
THE NEW JOURNAL 



**Title:  Untitled**
**Author:  No Author Listed**
**Page number(s): 9**

WE IN THE IVY LEAGUE like to think 
of ourselves as progressive: our schools of-
fer the best financial aid packages, record 
some of the highest minority enrollment, 
and frequently produce research at the 
vanguard of a variety of social issues. 
Lately, Yale has placed particular focus 
on overcoming racial barriers. In 2007, 
President Richard Levin asked the incom-
ing freshman class to read Beverly Daniel 
Tatum's book Why Are All the Black Kids 
Sitting Together in the Cafttetia? And Other 
Conversations About Race. Tatum, who 
also serves as president of the historically 
black Spellman College, gave the open-
ing address after which students discussed 
her comments with their new peers and 
freshman counselors. Later that year, af-
ter incidents of racist graffiti near Pierson 
College and snowball swastikas on Old 
Campus, Yale held town hall forums and 
other events to promote dialogue on race 
in hopes of preventing similar events from 
happening in the future. Last spring, Yale 
played host to the Connecticut chapter 
of the National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People's centennial 
celebration. Long all-male, all-white, all-
rich strongholds, the members of the Ivy 
e have slowly started to address their 
issues with race. 

An event in Cambridge, Massachusetts 
this summer brought these ongoing strug-
gles into the public eye. By now the story 
is familiar. Bleary-eyed Harvard scholar 
Henry Lewis Gates Jr. returns home from 
China to find that his door is jammed. 
Assisted by his driver, he forces the door 
open, prompting a neighbor to call the 
Cambridge police to report a possible 
break-in. The police arrive; six minutes 
later, Gates is led out of his own home in 
handcuffs and brought to jail on charges of 
disorderly conduct. 

The facts are black and white, but their 
interpretation is far less clear. Gates, whose 
only offense was belligerent speech, insists 
his arrest was a blatant example of racial 
profiling. "If I had been a white professor 
answering the door, there is no question 
in my mind that I would not have been 
arrested. I will go to my grave absolutely 
convinced of that." On the other hand, 
Sergeant Crowley, who spent five years 
teaching Lowell police cadets about how 
to avoid racial profiling, insists that profes-
sor Gates' race played no part in his arrest. 

It is unclear whether the Gates incident 
was a display of racial profiling, or simply a 
tale of two egos. Regardless, what the epi-
sode clarified is that Ivy League campuses, 
however tolerant they may purport to be, 
are not immune to racial tensions. 

Several years ago in the dead of winter, 
Yale professor Gerald Jaynes walked into 
the psychology building for a meeting 
with a senior psychology professor. The 
furnace had been broken for several days; 
the building was frigid and Jaynes, who 
has taught in Yale's Economics and African 
American Studies departments since 1977, 
tied his "expensive-looking" overcoat even 
tighter around his suit to stay warm. As he 
was making his way down the hallway, two 
white professors exited the elevator and 
looked Jaynes up and down. 
~ "Are you here to fix the furnace?" one 
inquired. 

Jaynes paused. He stared silently. at the 
men before retorting, "Well, at least you 
gave me a skill." 

Recalling the incident, Jaynes remarks, 
"It was pretty pitiful." But Jaynes is gener-
ous. Recognizeing the complexity of racial 
profiling, he refuses to blame the junior 
professors for their misplaced perceptions. 
"It is unlikely that those junior professors 
were actually racist. But that just goes to 
show you how powerful stereotypes are. 
Usually black males in the psychology 



**Title: The Unseen Bias**
**Author: Haley Cohen**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
building were there to do some type of 
handiwork so they just assumed that's why 
I was there. Instead of taking into consid-
eration how I was dressed, all they could 
see was 'black male'." 
Similar episodes of racial profiling are 
not rare. 

Many black Yale students cite instances 
of how, at night, women will clutch their 
purses when passing them, people will 
cross the street to get away from them, and 
·other students will sometimes slam resi-
dential college gates in their faces if their 
IDs aren't readily accessible. 

It may at first seem surprising that an 
institution that prides itself on attempts 
to counter racism could play host to such 
bias. But, as many scholars have pointed 
out, cross-racial interactions, can often 
cause presumably smart people to act in 
ways that are not logical. 

Furthermore, although racism is often 
seen as a scourge of the ignorant, Dr. John 
Dovidio, a professor in the Yale psychol-
ogy department whose research focus is 
aversive racism, explains that prejudice 
has little to do with intelligence. "The way 
to think about implicit bias is as a habit 
of mind. When you grow up in a society 
with racist traditions, that's basically as 
segregated now as it was thirty years ago, 
with big differences in socioeconomic sta-
10 
· .. ·. states 
no r~~l 
ban 
St.aa that p.cohibit raciad 
o.f mJtc!is1s 
(not pedestrians} 
States tnat prot!lbtt 
rad,al profiling (}.f both 
motoosts 800 
pedestriai'l$ 
. ··- -
NV 
tus among different races, bias becomes a "' 
subliminal habit." 

Like most habits, racial profiling is not 
easy to prevent and will be even harder to 
eliminate. As Professor Jaynes' story dem-
onstrates, racial stereotyping is not always 
grounded in overt racism. Instead, racial 
profiling usually stems from implicit biases 
that subconsciously influence our behav- · 
• !Of. 

As he was making his way 
down the hallway, two white 
professors exited the eleva-
tor and looked Jaynes up and 
down. c_j1re you here to fix the 
furnace?'' one inquired. 

Implicit Association Tests such as "Proj-
ect Implicit," a web experiment sponsored 
by Harvard, show that 75-80 percent of 
self-identified whites and Asians show an 
implicit preference for white people rela-
tive to black people. Even more surpris-
ingly, at least half of all black people sur-
veyed demonstrated a preference for white 
people over black people. 

In another study, participants are 
quickly exposed to photos of either a 
•• 
HI 
black or white man holding an ambigu-
ous object and asked to identify the object 
as either a weapon or benign article. The 
researchers found that participants were 
much quicker to identify the unclear ob-
jects as weapons when the pho.tos were of 
black men. Respondents are often com-
pletely unaware of these biases, and usually 
identify themselves as unprejudiced on the 
pre-expenment surveys. 

In an interview with the Boston Globe, 
Mahzarin R. Banaji, the Harvard psychol-
ogy professor who heads "Project Implic-
it," said; "I think our data, obtained from 
millions and millions of people, show a 
real. disparity between who we are, who we 
say we are ... and what actually goes on in 
our heads." 

Although what goes on in our minds 
may be implicit, the social ramifications 
are ·anything but. Wes Phillips, TD '1 0, 
recalls his anger at being asked for his ID 
when entering the Yale shuttle behind a 
long l_ine of other students, all of whom 
were white or Asian and had not been . 
asked for identification. 

In another example, Jarrett Burks, CC 
'1 0, was in the basement of Berkeley Col-
lege, which he had reserved for the Yale 
Black Men's Union to host an outreach 
event for black Wilbur Cross high-school-
ers. The kids were bouncing basketballs 


--- Page 11 ---

and eating pizza when three Yale police 
officers suddenly appeared on the scene. 
They claimed to be responding to a call 
that a black male had broken into Berke-
ley and "was running around in a Yale 
football jacket." 

"Now, I understand that the police 
were just doing their jobs. But from the 
caller's standpoint, does that make any 
sense?" Burks asks incredulously. 

Dovidio's research on aversive racism 
explores these questions. His findings are 
staggenng. 

"Unconscious biases get played out in 
ways that prevent people from recogniz-
ing that they're biased but still have the 
same impact as old-fashioned racism." 

He brings up an example of a panel de-
ciding whether or not to hire various job 
applicants. 

"If the applicant has impeccably strong 
qualifications or incredibly weak qualifi-
cations 
implicit biases arep't expressed. 
You hire the strong candidate, not the 
weak candidate. But when you give peo-
ple a mixture where an applicant has some 
traits that are good and some that aren't, 
whites get hired more than blacks. When 
the applicant is white, the panel weighs 
the qualification that the white is stron-
ger in more heavily. When the applicant 
is black, they weigh the qualification that 
the black person is weakest in." 

This type of bias is especially danger-
ous, as it is often expressed in ways that 
can be justified. 

''Aversive racists rationalize their deci-
sions in ways that have nothing to do with 
race. When people hire a white applicant 
with a high GPA but low SAT scores over 
a black applicant with a low GPA but high 
SAT scores, they can believe that their de-
cision was based on the black applicant 
not having a high enough GPA." Though 
this type of discrimination may not be 
intentional, the outcome is still the same: 
white people have a better chance ofbeing 
hired than blacks. 

PEOPLE'S RELUCTANCE TO TALK about 
race is another fact that further hinders at-
tempts to reduce racial profiling. 

"Initiating 
cross-racial 
discussion 
would alleviate a lot of tension. But race 
is a tricky topic that makes a lot of people 
very uncomfortable," comments Phillips. 
"Most people try to avoid talking about it 
at all costs." 

September 2009 

Among those tiptoeing around racial 
issues in New Haven is the Yale Police 
Department. According to Gila Reinstein, 
Yale's Associate Director of Public Affairs, 
Yale has rules and regulations in place that 
explicitly prohibit the Yale Police from col-
lecting racial statistics of crimes commit-
ted on campus. Reinstein maintains that 
the policy is meant to "avoid racial pro-
filing." The messages from Chief Perrotti 
that are sent out to alert the Yale commu-
nity of criminal incidents on or near Yale's 
campus lack racial descriptions of the per-
petrators, even when the suspect is still at 
large. 

Reinstein declined to comment on 
how Yale could justify ignoring skin color 
in their crime repons when such a policy 
makes it indisputably harder for the Yale 
community to recognize alleged offend-
ers. She empha.Sized instead the require-
ment for, Yale Police officers to complete a 
course on "Cultural Awareness and Diver-
sity" when they carry out their basic rrain-
ing at the Connecticut Police Academy in 
Meriden. Stan Konesky Jr., who was a lieu-
tenant for 29 years in Branford, and now 
teaches this class, explains its mission as 
"heightening the officers' consciousness of 
the differences between different peoples' 
cultures, religions and backgrounds." 

When asked what concrete methods 
are used to help officers avoid racial pro@-
ing, Konesky waxed poetic about an activ-
ity in~olving a box of Crayola crayons. 
"The officers are told to pick whatever 
crayon they want and express themselves 
on a large sheet of paper at the front of the 
room. So then you'll have 40 or 50 offi-
cers who have. all chosen different crayons 
of different colors and types - some may 
be broken, some may be sharp- and ex-
pressed themselves. Thus, the drawing be-
comes like a metaphor for the community 
- with lots of individual drawings of dif- · 
ferent colors and types all coming together 
as a whole." 

bouncing bas-
eating pizza 
when three Yale police o -
cers suddenly appeared on the 
scene. They claimed to be re-
sponding to a call that a black 
male had broken into Berke-
ley and c'was running around 
in..a Yale football jacket. '' 
The kids 
ketballs 
were 
and 


--- Page 12 ---

While this venture may be well-inten-
tioned, it is not likely to put an end to 
racial pro@ing. Especially not when statis-
tics seem to affirm the notion that black 
people are more likely to commit crimes 
than people of other races. According to 
the U.S. Department of Justice, offend-
ing homicide rates for blacks were more 
than seven times higher than the rates for 
whites. Another statistic claims that, based 
on current rates of first incarceration, an 
estimated 32o/o of black males will enter 
11 
State or Federal prison during their life-
time, compared to 17o/o of Hispanic males 
and 5.9o/o of white males. 

But Dovidio insists this data should 
not be taken at face value. "Statistics get 
really complicated because if you look at 
the people who are incarcerated, blacks are 
in jail in a much higher proportion than 
whites are. In a way, it's a logical base rate 
to think: 'I'm looking for a criminal -I'll 
look for a black person. But when you 
profile any group it can actually inflate the 
statistics. It's self-perpetuating. You're cre-
ating the reality." 

Yale Professor of Sociology Elijah An-
derson agrees: "One of the main reasons 
we have such a high black incarceration 
rate is the persistence of concentrated, 
racialized urban poverty. In this context, 
black men are often profiled and scruti-
nized; if white men were in the same posi-
tion, we might have more white tnen in 
prison." Anderson, therefore, thinks our 
oflly hope for eradicating racial profiling is 
for white people to put themselves in that 
pos1t1on. 

"The problem may not be dealt with 
until enough privileged people · "get it," 
so to speak. . And they can only "get it" 
through education about the root cause of 
this problem: the persistence of concen-
trated, racialized urban poverty. 

Racial 
profiling on a broad scale is one of the 
ways in which the wider society, seeking to 
protect itself, reacts to a "dangerous" black 
urban underclass. 

Anderson also believes that, due to 
their position as targets of racial profiling, 
black people often bring an extra measure 
of understanding to their cross-racial so-
cial interactions. In his book Streetwise, 
12 
which explores urban life, the professor . 
labels this extra layer of comprehension 
"street wisdom." He claims that through . 
repeated exposure to street life, as well as 
the stereotypes and fears that accompany 
it, individuals both black and white gain 
comfort "sharing the street with young 
black males." 

Similarly, Dovidio insists that our best 
chance at eliminating aversive racism is 
to increase interracial interactions. He · 
believes this tactic would prove especially 
effective if people were exposed to more 
racial diversity from a young age. 

"In the US we classify people based on 
three dimensions: · race, sex and age. Peo-
ple have argued that both age and sex have 
good evolutionary basis but the argument 
about race is socially constructed. If you · 
cah give people a lot of interracial exposure 
early on in life then race doesn't become 
an important marker in how they see the 
world." 

Dovidio also stresses the importance 
of holding people accountable for their 
biases. 

"Instead of walking around and saying 
'I'm not biased, I'm not biased' we should 
be willing to stop and ask 'Am I biased?' 
When people become aware that they're 
behaving in an unfair way, they're the first 
to want to adjust it." 

Dovidio believes the Yale police should 
undertake this same exercise. 

"How to eliminate racism? You make 
people pause, think and become 
accountable. Police officers might not 
even be aware that they're biased, but as 
long as they don't record the race of a per-
son -
they're never even acknowledging 
that they might be." 

Dovidio adds that to the minority com-
munity on Yale's campus, the police seem 
to be ignoring an issue that is very salient 
to them. 

"It's very hard to establish trust that 
way. The safest neighborhoods are those 
with the faith, trust and cooperation of 
the community." 

But it is not just the police who are to 
blame. In the Burks incident, officers were 
responding to a concerned caller; similarly, 
the police had nothing to do with the ini-
tial misidentification of Jaynes. It is not 
just law enforcement that needs to build 
trust with their communities. It's that we 
need to do a better job of policing our-
selves. 

Haley Cohen is a junior in Davenport Col-
lege, and the Production Manager ofTNJ 



**Title: I HAD HEARD ABOUT NOAH CHARNEY**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I HAD HEARD ABOUT NOAH CHARNEY long before I met him. His mother, Diane known, to her French students at Yale, as Madame Charnay often tells stories about her son, the novelist, the founder and director of a non-profit think tank, and, she says, the expert on art crime. I thought, based on our limited email interaction and a ubiquitous picture from a New York Times article, I would be able to recognize Noah when we met at a local New Haven bookstore. 

I arrived at Atticus slightly early for our meeting at half past noon. At 12:37, a tall man in his late-twenties with a shaved head and silver sunglasses walked in and asked for a dry cappuccino. His unbuttoned navy canvas blazer and slim, designer jeans gave him a distinctly European look too trendy for the average American out for Sunday brunch. He added a packet of turbinado sugar to his coffee and walked to the bookshelf labeled ''Art History." In the pictures I'd seen, Charney had chin length black hair tucked behind his ears revealing a high forehead and a short, reddish beard, but, I imagined, if he were dean-shaven, he would look something like this man. I walked towards him, 
14 
"Professor Charney?" He looked down at me over his sunglasses. "Sorry, no," said the fraud and exited onto the street. Five minutes later, with still no trace of the real professor, I too headed home. 

Noah Charney specializes in look-alikes and things that are missing. When we finally meet one week later, he is alternately sipping cappuccino and tugging at his beard as he tells me how he stumbled upon the field of art crime. In 2003, he was working on his first Master's degree and studying seventeenth-century Roman sculpture at London's Courtauld Institute of Art. At the same time, for fun, he began writing his first novel, The Art Thief, a mystery-thriller that begins with the disappearance of three paintings. While researching for the · book, which is based on historical thefts and has been criticized for being bogged down by facts, Charney says, "I found that the field was just wide open." With the exception of looting during the Second World War and illicit trade in antiquities, the subject is underdeveloped, especially in the subfields Charney focuses on: fine art theft, theft from exigency, and forgery. Since it is interdisciplinary equal parts art history and criminology scholars in related fields occasionally publish articles in the respected Journal of the International Foundation for Art Research (IFAR). Although the organization began in 1969 with the mission to prevent the circulation of forged and misappropriated art, today it focuses more on legal and ethical issues, like what should happen to the innocent collector who accidently purchases a stolen painting or sculpture. As far as the stolen art itself, only about 10 percent is recovered due to poor documentation of heists, an under-regulated market, and a lack of coordination between owners, dealers, and enforcement agencies. Charney, for his part, faults governments that do not take art crime seriously. While both the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Scotland Yard have dedicated teams, they are quite small thirteen and six respectively. Additionally, neither agency files art crimes separately from other stolen goods such as cars or electronics, which makes compiling data on such crimes onerous. According to Charney, "only the bureaucracy behind the Carabinieri Division for the Protection of Cultural Heritage provides praise-worthy support." Italy's preeminent team of over 300 agents


is also the busiest; more than 20,000 thefts are reported annually; Russia, with 2000, is a distant second. 

Charney trumpets sustained institutional support and research because, for this type of crime, he explains, "there is no Inspector Clouseau..." He pauses. "No, not him. I mean inspector Poirot," Agatha Christie's masterful detective. Instead, most stolen art is recovered through sting operations and obtaining information from criminal informants. Charney temporarily considered taking part in these operations. "It lasted two minutes," he laughs, explaining that the job requires such 9-5 conventions as having a boss and doing as you are told. 

Following orders has never been one of Charney's strengths. When Noah was two he took violin lessons at a Suzuki studio, which, according to his mother, was "a fiasco." His parents had enrolled him in the class shortly after the day he took two sticks, rubbed them together furiously, and proclaimed ''I'm violinning." But, explained his mother Diane, "Suzuki is made for kids who want to do what everyone else is doing, so Noah's sitting on the floor saying, 'I hate music'" and refusing to play. Two years later, in an attempt at reverse-psychology, his parents told him they wanted him to study piano in order to con him into taking cello. It worked. 

September 2009 Over the course o a less than a month, the thie , a 53,.-year-old heroin · addict, stole 39 pieces o art vm New Haven businesses, galleries, and the New Haven Free Public Li-brary by hiding them under his clothes. 

The elder Charneys, Diane and her husband Jim, were serious musicians in their own right he had studied at Interlochen and Julliard and she at Eastman. Although the family lived in New Haven, Noah describes his parents as Europhiles who delighted in "Euro-style imports farmers markets, restaurants, and certain types of furniture" and travelled across the Atlantic whenever possible. When Noah was a toddler, the family began making annual summer pilgrimages to a chateau in the Loire Valley, where his mother taught a Choate Rosemary Hall summer course. Twelve years later, after Diane began teaching at Yale, Noah, then himself a student at Choate, embarked on his own summer-session trip to the Continent. It was then that he decided he wanted to live in Europe forever. "It was just a matter of how to do it logistically," he says. 

At Colby College, Noah spent two semesters in Europe, one in Paris and one in London. In England, he studied playwriting and formed a punk-rock band for which he wrote the songs and lyrics, sang, and played rhythm guitar. They recorded albums "in their dorm rooms, played bars and _called themselves The Jump Into ("Into what?" he asked the friend who came up with the name. "That's exactly the point," she said). The band fell apart as its members graduated, which, in 2002, drove Charney back to England and towards his childhood dream of becoming Indiana Jones (the topic, incidentally, of his college application essay), solving historical mysteries and making fantastic discoveries. Archeology, however, required too much dirty work, "brushing off," and "attention to the nitty-gritty." Plus, it didn"t provide enough potential to make discoveries. He looked instead to art. To Noah, works of art are giant visual puzzles that he delights in trying to solve. For his second Master's thesis, Noah wrote an interpretation of Bronzino's ''An Allegory with Venus and Cupid", his favorite painting. It is one of the approximately forty works with little consensus among art historians about its underlying meaning. His own mystery, The Art Thief, was published in 2007, two years after Charney moved to Cambridge to begin work on a doctorate in art crime, the first, he claims, of its kind. Along with a new television show currently in development, Noah believes the book portrays art crime in a way that makes it "something both a taxi driver and a professor would find interesting." Noah emphasizes the importance of accessibility of information about art crime, explaining that its portrayal in popular media, especially film, is inaccurate. Movies often portray the criminal art collector "the man in a three piece suit with a pink bowtie, a monocle: the Planters peanut guy" which, Charney says, has not existed outside of dramatic cliche since World War II. "Ordinary art thieves are unglamorous." They are mostly "thugs" hired on a one-time contract and told what and how to steal, mostly "street criminals who would steal a car one day and mug someone the next," and learn about crime mostly "at the movies." In the absence of Doctor No-esque masterminds, most art crime is carried out 15 




**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
,.;:· 
::;:; 
- ~·-
\:~: 
··-~ 
.>:-.· 
' 
::~ 
~· 
.y; 
. 



**Page number(s): 18**

• 
by or on behalf of organized crime syndi-
. cates who use the paintings as barter or 
collateral, or for ransom. The industry, the 
third largest black market behind narcot-
ics and arms trafficking, has been valued 
at $6 billion, an estimate Charney deems 
conservative. Most stolen art, however, is 
sold on the open market, often on Ebay. 
Antiquities, which, according to Charney, · 
make up about 75 percent of the stolen 
. art market, and other little known pieces 
can be easily sold by "doctoring the prov-
enance, which is just a fancy way of saying, 
changing the paperwork." 
Art is also often swapped directly for 
drugs, as in the case of the paintings lifted 
from the Joseph Slifka Center and New 
Haven City Hall in March. 
Over the 
course of a less than a month, the thief, a 
53-year-old heroin addict, stole 39 pieces 
of art from New Haven businesses, gal-
leries, and the New Haven Free Public 
Library by hiding them under his clothes. 
According to police reports, much of the 
art was unsecured, just hanging on the 
wall. Such unprotected displays, Charney 
notes, are common in spaces that, unlike 
museums, are not primarily concerned 
with art exhibitions. According to him, 
18 
churches are especially vulnerable due tO"' 
limited security budgets and an unwilling-
ness to display art in less accessible parts 
of the building or erect barriers, like glass 
cases, between viewers ·and the art. It is 
estimated that thefts from churches occur 
three times more often than thefts from 
museums, galleries, and art dealers com-
bined. Charney's organization, the Asso.,. 
ciation for Research into Crimes Against 
Art (ARCA), which provides free security 
consultations, emphasizes low-cost, mini-
mally invasive technology. "Something as 
simple as a motion sensor and a length of 
fishing line" or a video surveillance system 
will work, says Charney citing the security 
camera footage that played a crucial role in 
the recovery of the New Haven paintings. 
(They were found, in prime condition in 
the thief's home, along with five firearms, 
marijuana and heroin packaged for sale, 
and nearly one thousand dollars in cash). 
Charney's work has gained attention 
from media outlets worldwide, while the 
emerging nature of the general field has al-
lowed him to deviate from the traditional 
path of the academic. In large part, these 
prospects for fame and freedom drew him 
to art crime more than the subject itsel£ 
"There is a certain route one takes: you 
do your undergraduate, Master's, Ph.D. 
and publish an article, then publish ·an-
other during your post-doc" he explains, 
"and you are not supposed claim or ac-
cept commendations of authority." Noah, 
who admits he has "unsubstantiated self-
confidence," has no qualms accepting such 
commendations; at 29, he considers him-
·· 
self an expert 
"the world expert," to use 
his words 
in the field. 
While theft and orgery lead 
to the loss o billions o dollars 
each year, for the individual 
artist, the loss o a painting 
can be good thing. 
He enjoys having relative fame in his 
field without the rigor and discipline of 
working towards tenure, choosing to teach 
only as a guest lecturer or adjunct profes- _ 
sor so he can also have time to write and 
to travel. Over the past seven years, he has 
lived in twelve different cities. Noah speaks 
"4.5 languages," English, French, Italian, 
THE NEW JOURNAL 



**Title: The Artful Dodger**
**Author: Sarah Nutman**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
Slovene, and some Spanish. Though he 
modestly contends that he "sounds like a 
three year old; every sentence has a gram-
matical error," his mother rebuts that "even 
when he is saying gibberish, he does it in a 
perfect accent." In his native English, his 
voice is deep and enunciated, and changes 
when he says words with the letter L; he 
doesn't "like" going anywhere as a tourist; 
he "1-eye-kes" being in foreign countries 
where he cannot understand everything 
precisely. For him, it creates "a cocoon of 
thoughts," which fuels his creativity. 

Charney's latest exploit took him to 
Ljubljana and the Julian Alps, which he 
had chosen, on a whim, as the setting for 
his second novel, To Catch the Devil. The 
trip also introduced him to Udka Jeran, 
a woman from the small Slovenian town 
ofTunjice whom he married last Septem-
ber. She shares his zeal for adventure; after 
working in mattress and electric fuse fac-
tories and digging potatoes, Jeran left her 
village for China, Peru, and Bolivia. Cur-
rently, she works as a translator, graphic 
designer, and helps manage ARCA, all jobs 
that Noah emphasizes are portable. 

During the spring of 2008, however, 
Noah and Ur.Ska lived with his parents. 
The Charneys temporarily ceded a floor 
of their home to the newlyweds who are, 
according to Diane, "homeless and pretty 
penniless, so to speak." Diane and Jim 
also lent their recently renovated house 
in Umbria, Italy to Noah and Udka. It is 
currently the couple's primary residence 
while they oversee Noah's Master's pro-
gram in Rome. "He is the be-all and end-
all only child," Diane told me, and they 
are the self-described, "proud, hovering 
parents" who have little qualms support-
ing their nearly thirty year-old son. In 
lieu of a small framed photo of her son 
on her desk, Diane has a three-page story 
recounting Noah and Udka's Slovene wed-
ding complete with inlaid photographs of 
the couple plastered to the outside of her 
office door. Jim often stopped by the col-
lege seminar his son taught last semester 
at Yale on the theoretical, historical, and 
practical aspects of art crime. 

He is the be-all and end-
all only child " Diane told 
me~ and they are the self-de-
scribed "proud hovering par-
September 2009 
ents~~ who have little qualms 
supporting their nearly thirty 
year-old son. 

Forgers, says Charney, are unlike other 
art criminals. Often con-men make-up 
the fringe of the art community: talented 
artists whose work is not selling. "So they 
give the middle finger to the art world 
by tricking them," says Charney. The art 
world, however, abets in. these acts. "Ev-
eryone benefits if a new object enters onto 
the market 
the owner has something of 
value, the middleman receives a profit, the 
collector 
to whom money is not an is-
sue 
gets a trophy, the scholar something 
to study, the journalist," Noah says mo-
tioning towards me, "gets something to 
write about." Though most forgers go to 
jail for a few years, "they are seen as lovable 
crooks," says Charney. 

Once released, 
forgers often become famous in their own 
right by selling copies of famous artists' 
works, but with their signature instead. 

While theft and forgery lead to the loss 
of billions of dollars each year, for the in-
dividual artist, the loss of a painting can be 
good thing. "If it is good enough to steal, 
it must be great," Charney explained. 
"The Mona Lisa was never more famous 
than it was right after its theft." More-
over, crime begets crime. Shortly after its 
return, the Mona Lisa twice became the 
target of vandals, and the work of Edvard 
Munch was stolen three times in ten years. 
Jan Van Eyk's Ghent Altarpiece holds the 
record; the twelve-part panel the size of a 
wall in a small room has been the victim of 
thirteen crimes and seven separate thefts. 
It is the subject of Charney's next book, a 
non-fiction work titled Stealing the Mystic 
Lamb. 

Over the next year, Charney also plans 
to publish a collection of academic essays 
in addition to his second novel, and a se-
ries of art history guides commissioned 
by museums in Spain. Though he will 
be based in Umbria, he plans to travel ex-
tensively in Europe promoting his book 
and continue to "dabble in lots of little 
fields." Ultimately, he feels a multifaceted 
approach to his interests 
novels, televi-
sion, documentary, and scholasticism-
makes the subject accessible to the largest 
number of people and gives him the best 
chance for recognition. The stories of art 
crime are, without embellishment, good, 
he claims. "The truth can be so much 
more unbelievable than fiction," he says 
recalling famous thefts, the black market, 
and the now famous forgers. 

The story 
of his own life 
an American Europhile, 
using art crime to foray into other fields 
without competition, still supported 
by his parents while forging a path to 
fame 
is much the same. 


**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 20**

Volume 4 I., No. 4 
The magazine about Yale 
and New Haven February 2009 




**Title: The Salvation Army in New Haven**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
~ 
nee a 
·. 
I. We admitted we were powerless no- · 
der institutional influence. 
Years ago, on a trip to New York, I heard 
the ringing for the first time. I must have 
been seven or eight 
sometime before I 
stopped believing in Santa Claus because I 
was drawn immediately to the man in the 
red velour suit and snowy beard standing 
beside a red kettle, bells in hand like the 
ones Mrs. Confessore let us use for chorus. 
I wanted to run up to this man, but my 
mother steered me away, scolding me in 
Chinese, "Dou shi pian ren de." Lies, all 
lies. 


Now, years later at college, I associate a 
different ring with the Salvation Army; in 
the store on New Haven's Crown Street, a 
chime hangs from the door, producing a 
tinny sound that is gentler, more sensitive 
than the shaken bells of the street. Wel-
come, this bell says, while its undertones 
imply a familiar message: Support our 
store. Please buy someone hope. A lady 
with grey and white streaked hair calls out 
from behind the glass display case of a reg-
• 1ster. 
"Hi th 
, 
ere. 
22 
"Hi," I reply, hoping to discover how 
her Salvation Army works. My mom isn't 
there to shoo me away, but the woman is 
a different story. "Oh no, you can't talk to 
us," she says. "Wait <til the manager comes 
back." 
Paul, the manager, a thin .man with 
kind eyes whose apron only partially cov-
ers his long legs, tells me Salvo 
as locals 
call it 
frowns on unsolicited inquiries 
into its operations. Salvo, he claims, is a 
spiritual space. It must be respected: when 
friars visit, no one should be taking pic-
tures, as happened years ago. Salvo is a 
private place. In the back of the store, the 
Salvation Army plays a different role: run-
ning an adult rehabilitation center for men 
trying to quit drugs, alcohol, and their old 
lifestyles, using the twelve-step program of 
Alcoholics Anonymous. Behind the brick 
wall separating the store from the center, 
up to 45 men may be working towards 
sobriety: "We admitted we were powerless 
over alcohol - that our lives had become 
unmanageable. We came to believe that a 
power greater than ourselves could restore 
. 
" 
us to sanity ... 
While money from the bells on the 
street helps support Salvo's other pro-
grams 
soup kitchens, 
shelters, 
after-
school programs 
the . chime hanging 
from the door of a modest storefront on 
Crown Street acts as the sole support for 
the New Haven Salvation Army Adult Re-
habilitation Center. Sales from the store 
almost entirely fund the center, and the 
men who seek help inside. 
Still, the distinction between different 
Salvo venues is often lost due to the orga-
nization's commitment to confidentiality. 
When I ask if I can interview him, Paul 
says, "I have no control over these types 
of things." He is just a regular worker un-
der the institution's payroll and influence, 
with no power to accept or deny requests 
for information. Nevertheless, he refers me 
to the "Captain" of the Army, an ordained 
minister and the real head of this Salvo, 
who decides whether reporters, research-
ers, anybody has permission to talk. 
IT. We came to believe that a power 
greater than ourselves could restore us. 
Captain Merchant is remarkably recep-
tive and well-groomed. I had been half-ex-


--- Page 23 ---

-
peering a full-bearded man like the 1865 
founding General of Salvation Army, Wil-
liam Booth, who, in his time, requested 
Captains to grow beards like his. Today's 
Captain is shaven, young, with dark eyes, 
strong hands, and a sturdy build. Though 
he makes decisions for the New Haven 
store, his primary responsibility is running 
the live-in rehabilitation center, whose fa-
cilities are located alongside a giant ware-
house for importing, sorting, and ship-
ping Salvo donations. ''All of this," says 
Merchant, gesturing around the facilities, 
"supports the boys." 
':All o this, " says Merchant, 
gesturing around the facili-
ties, 'supports the boys. " 
Every morning, six trucks pick up do-
nations. Workers then unload the white 
garbage bags of clothes and miscellaneous 
items 
anything from scuffed rollerblades 
and picture frames to slightly chipped 
bookshelves and wire sculptures 
into the 
back storeroom. The clothes are poured 
onto beige tables and separated into grey 
buckets reminiscent of garbage bins, with 
signs denoting their prices: $7.99 for a se-
quined formal dress, $3.99 for a blue-and-
white checked blouse. 
September 2009 
The clothes, sorted by price, are marked 
by differently colored tags which, Mer-
chant says, helps keep track of how long 
items have been in the store. Each item 
has only five weeks to sell before being tak-
en back into the warehouse on the same 
"runner's racks" 
think of a wardrobe on 
wheels 
that it came out on, and taken to 
a different outlet. Every day, five thousand 
articles circulate through a single store. 
While Merchant shows me around, 
the workers in the stor.eroom don't look 
up once; if anything, with the presence of 
the captain, they seem even more meticu-
lously focused than usual on the label of a 
jean, the collar of a shirt. Past the work-
ers hanging clothes, past the grey door, is 
the actual store's space again. "Well, that's 
that," the Captain says, as we reach the 
rows of sweatshirts. There we meet Paul. 
Then, putting to work the power that only 
the Captain can wield, he tells him, "Show 
this girl around." 
III. Made a decision to turn our will 
over as we grew to understanding. 
That so many steps had been required 
for just a simple chat with Paul seemed 
strange: what did Salvo have to hide? De-
spite the Salvation Army's long-time pres-
ence in New Haven, the librarian from 
the New Haven Historical Society can 
only producea thin file labeled "Salvation 
Army, New Haven. [Miscellaneous Publi-
cations]." Inside are only two items, both 
customary handouts from Salvo, both 
from the 1930s. "Maybe they have their 
own library?" she suggests, almost apolo-
getically. They do · have a library, the offi-
cial Salvation Army Archives and Research 
center in Alexandria, Virginia, which is 
open to the public. Still, a serious visi-
tor would need to make an appointment . 
Only archives staff are allowed to photo-
copy documents, but they are not always 
on call. Only certain documents may be 
copied. 
Yet Salvo's stringency, like that of most 
churches, is merely steeped in custom. 
Though most people recognize the orga-
nization more for its social than religious 
services, the Salvation Army is at its heart 
a Christian church organized in the man-
ner of the military, with its own traditions 
and restrictions. Salvo has been in New 
Haven since 1888. Paul has worked in the 
store for the past 15 years. Things were a 
little different back when he began, for 
example a larger staff of at least five at a 
time, whereas now he can rarely get two 
to work the register. But some policies 
don't change. In the New Haven branch, 
at least, captains are still only allowed to


--- Page 24 ---

marry other officials within the Salvo hi-
erarchy. Other rules include no soliciting 
within the store. For me, this means no 
asking shoppers questions either. 
IY. Made a searching and fearless 
moral inventory of ourselves. 
Hi, excuse me, sir. Sir, can I have a mo-
ment of your time? I noticed you came 
out of the Salvation Army. Why do you 
shop there? Oh, sorry-
Some people are unresponsive; I try to 
seek out the ones with open faces and jolly 
walks, the ones who won't be angered by 
questions. Why do they shop there? It's 
cheaper! It's economics, you know. People 
want to save money. Ain't nothin' wrong 
with that. 
While Lenny is gone~ the man 
in beige walks over. His eyes 
meet mine. 
c2isten~ '' he says. 
czisten, I know Lenny. And I 
need some help. " 
Lenny sees me taking notes. He walks 
24 
over. "Do you support the Salvation 
Army?" I ask eagerly. "Oh sure," he said. 
"Oh, they do great things. Whenever I 
got somethin' I can~t use, I give it to 'em. 
Support their rehab center, ya know." He 
wears a black bandanna and tells me he's a 
mover, here for a temporary job transport-
ing things into the Schubert Theater. He is 
waiting outside for the hot buffalo wings 
he ordered to be delivered. "Don't worry. 
I'm not preyin' on no women. Unlike that 
guy," he tells me, pointing to the one in a 
beige jacket standing by the entrance of the 
nearby parking garage, and laughs. Lenny 
has a car of his own, pays car insurance, 
rent, gas. Lives an honest life. Tells me his 
address; spells it out on the street. ''Ain't 
got nothin' to hide," he says, shrugging, 
and then waves to the woman through the 
restaurant's window. His wings are ready. 
While Lenny is gone, the man in beige 
walks over. His eyes meet mine. "Listen," 
he says. "Listen, I know Lenny. And I 
need some help." But before he can finish, 
Lenny comes back, opening his tin box of 
wings. "How're you, man?" Lenny says, 
punching the guy who turns out to be Ted, 
fifty years old and recently released from 
prison. "You been in there again?" says 
Lenny. "Well, that's too bad." "Yea," says 
Ted, who adds that he needs a bus ticket 
to Delaware, 42 dollars, to stay with his 
family there. Says he's been homeless for a 
few weeks now. 
"Don't they give you transportation 
money when you come out of prison?" 
asks Lenny. "Oh no," replies Ted. "You 
have to make a special case for that. I 
didn't want to make a special case." Len-
ny shrugs. "Well, why don't you get a job 
then? Why don't you get yourself a rake?" 
-he mimics a raking motion 
"It's leaf 
season, you know ... you could go 'round to 
different doors sayin' 'you need anybody?"' 
Ted says he's tried. Nothing works. Lenny 
- shrugs and reaches into his pocket. I al-
most expect him to pull out some cash, 
but he takes out his cell phone instead. 
"G 
" h 
"Th 
d 
I' 
otta go, 
e says. 
ey nee me. 
m 
. movin' things today." 
"You need some help?" Ted asks. "Nah, 
nah," says Lenny. "Nah, we've already got 
enough people." And he leaves. 
V. Admitted to God, to ourselves, and 
to another human being the exact na-
ture of our wrongs. 
· 
Ted looks after Lenny walking down 
the darkening streets, then turns to me . 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Kangki Wang**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
"Lenny and I go way back, to 1992," he 
tells me. "We were both in the same re-
hab program together, right back behind 
there" 
he points to the store. I wonder 
why Lenny didn't mention his participa-
tion in the program as he expounded on 
the virtues of the store, even after I had 
mentioned my interest in the rehab cen-
ter. "Anyway, it worked for Lenny. It's 
good for some people, you know." Ted 
sighs. "Listen. I don't want you to feel 
sorry for me." But he needs money to get 
to Delaware. "This is all I got on me," he 
says, indicating his jacket, his sweatpants, 
his old backpack. 
~7 was always on the other 
end o things, you know, "she 
says. '1 used to have a person-
al shopper." 


My parents have always admonished 
me for throwing quarters into the hats of 
the homeless in Manhattan; where they 
were raised in China, people are suspi-
cious of swindlers. I want to believe Ted, 
but I have no change. I scavenge and hand 
him my only bill, a crisp one, my parents' 
money. He accepts it soundlessly. 
"I stepped off the path. I was doin' al-
right, but me and mah girl broke up," Ted 
continues. "Now I'm not sayin' that's an 
excuse or anythin', but" 
she filed a suit 
against him. He broke the restraining or-
der and was sent back to jail. 


"So why can't you go back to Salvation 
Army?" I ask. "Can't they help you?" 
''I'm not steppin' through those doors 
again," he replies. "It's a process, a whole 
process. And they don't do anything for 
, 
you. 


VI. 
Were entirely ready to remove 
all these defects of character. 


Even for those who want to change, 
Kelly, a counselor at the Adult Rehabili-
tation Center, says the success rate of the 
New Haven branch is about 10 percent, 
just slightly higher than the average for 
the Salvation Army nationwide. The men 
who show up for the six-month program 
often come from local detoxes, or are re-
ferred there by parole or probation offi-
cers. Some people just walk in. Kelly says 
the center accepts anyone who isn't a reg-
istered sex offender, a convicted arsonist, a 
woman (the center is an all-men's facility), 
or someone physically unable to do work 
therapy. 


Work therapy means forty hours of 
work at Salvo week for each resident, usu-
ally in the sorting room, or store, or as a 
truck driver or box mover. The workers 
aren't paid, but they are given a "gratuity." 
Seven dollars a week for the first week, 
then up to nine, ten, and finally maxing 
out at 18 a week. 


VII. Humbly asked for our short-
comings to be removed. 


Jared is putting stickers on video-
tapes, marking each battered cardboard 
box with a price, $1.99 for movies he has 
heard of, $.99 for kid's movies and more 
obscure films. "Are you a worker here?" I 
ask, cheerf11lly. "Uh, no, unfortunately, 
I'm in the program," he replies stolidly. 
"Well, that's good, at least you're getting 
help," I say. "Well ... " He hesitates. "Yes 
and no. I mean, you still pretty much have 
to do eve 
· g yoursel£" 


It's his second time in the program. 
........ Ibis tirne, he carne voluntarily. Jared's 
case, Kelly tells me, is not unique: "Un-
fortunately, we have a lot of repeat offend-
ers." Some guys just keep coming back to 
Salvo, relying on the organization to take 
care of them the same way others rely on 
""\VT 
all ( 
Sail 
( 
pnson. 
we c 
em 
y-go- rounders," 
says Kelly. "There's Salvation Armies in 
Bridgeport, Worcester, Springfield, Provi-
dence ... some people make a whole circuit 
. " F 
"Sail 
' 
d 
" al 
tnp. 
or 
y-go- roun ers, S vation 
Army is the solution to an otherwise un-
stable life, a way to move forward with the 
beginnings of each new program. 


But Jared is clearly disappointed in 
himself and a little disappointed with 
Salvo; his voice is quiet, his eyes look any-
where but at me, and when Paul comes 
over, he stops talking altogether. 


Vlll. Made a list of all things we had 
harmed, and became willing to make 
amends to them all. 


Most people have been friendly and 
responsive to my questions, but some 
take offense. One says sharply, "It's none 
of your business," when I ask her why she 
shops at Salvo. I can't forget I'm a Yale 
student when I'm here, that their finances 
are none of my business, that I'm look-
ing for different things from . this store, 
· and, unlike the woman who struggles with 
her husband to decide whether or not she 
should purchase a two-dollar video game 
that might not work on her console, I 
spend at will, almost frivolously in com-
parison: a one-dollar vase for my suite, an 
eight-dollar outfit for Halloween. Four 
Yale freshmen boys browse for "fat lady in · 
drag" costumes. 


Few people come to Salvo for deeper 
reasons than saving money, but maybe 
they don't need to. They don't want to 
know more about the organization and 
how it ser¥es others when they need Salvo 
to serve themselves; they don't always have 
the luxury or time to ask questions like I 
do. 


Some seem barely able to purchase 
from Salvo at all. Paul tells me people 
steal from the Salvo store all the time. Just 
the other day, he caught a woman with a 
child stuffing clothes into the bottom of 
the stroller. Others pack clothes into draw-
ers in the used furniture room, to retrieve 
them at a later time. Some go as far as to 
switch their worn-out shoes with a pair of 
Salvo's from the shelf on the spot. "People 
just don't respect this place," says Paul. 


IX. Made direct a mends to such peo-
ple whenever possible, except when to 
do so would injure them or others. 


When I first arrived at the store, I no-
ticed a woman walking through the aisles 
with intensity, picking up after the shop-
pers. Hangers and clothes are constantly 
strewn over Cindy's arms as she searches 
for the right places to put them. When I 
ask her her story, she surprises me. She's a 
volunteer here. Oh, and she used to be a 
millionaire, she tells me, in a tone so mat-
ter-of-fact that it holds the ring of truth. "I 
was always on the other end of things, you 
know," she says. "I used to have a personal 
shopper." When I comment on her inten-
sity in work, she laughs. "Well, I worked 
for a restaurant corporation for 30 years," 
she says. "And I just love this store. I want 
to improve it. Paul, all the guys here, 
they're great. They spoil me." 


Years ago, she and her ex split up and 
she decided to go out East. Then, another 
ten years and an abusive relationship later, 
she lost her money, became homeless, be-
gan staying at a shelter. In 2008, Cindy 
dropped by this store with no resources, 
no outdoor clothes for the increasingly 
cold fall. Someone had told her she could 
maybe work for clothes at Salvo. So she 
worked for five hours and earned a coat 
and jeans, especially important for some-
one who used to be from California. 


Paul tells me people steal 
om the Salvo store all the 
time. just the other day, he 
caught a woman with a child 
stu ng clothes into the bot-
tom o the stroller. Others 
pack clothes into drawers in 
the used furniture room, to 
retrieve them at a later time~ 
Some go as -ar as to switch 
their worn-out shoes with a 
pair o Salvo's from the shel 
on the spot. uPeople just don't 
respect this place," says Paul. 


She is still living at that shelter, work-
ing at Salvo for no pay and few benefits, 
coming to help out at the store even on 
days when she doesn't have to. She com-
pliments customers' clothing choices. She · 
· walks around the store with vigor. ''And," 
as she rings the register, she says, ''I'm 
happy." 


X. Continued to take personal in-
ventory and when we were wrong 
prompdy admitted it. 


If Cindy never feels out of place at 
Salvo, why should I? I used to feel guilty 
stepping inside the store, not because 
I thought I was better than the people 
there, but afraid that those same people 
would think that I thought I was bet-
ter. Mraid that my middle-class past and 
present 
not rich, but certainly far from 
poor 
meant not being able to under-
stand the different pasts and presents of 
other shoppers. 


A woman is looking at a decorative 
plate 
a deep, cratered sort of thing, with 
a scene of a castle carved in. I ask her if 
she thinks she's going to eat out of it and 
she laughs. "What is this place?'' she asks, 
tilting her head. "Is this France?" I don't 
know either. We turn the plate over and it 
reads: Neuschwanstein 1357. "Oh God ... 
Noos-k-wan-steen," she sounds out slow-
ly, chuckling. "Who would go there?" 


Jared, who is more willing to talk to 
me lately, explains that he's never been 
out of the country. But his rich sponsor~ 
the recovery programs encourage you to 
have a sponsor 
flew him to Florida for 
a week before his rehab program began, 
the first time, in 200 1. Daytona Beach. 
"I still think he was tryin' to show off a 
bit, you know," says Jared of his sponsor. 
But it was the only time he's ever traveled. 


Now in his second round with the 
program, he's worked at the store for two 
months. "I get paid like, what, 17 cents 
an hour?" But he doesn't seem too bit-
ter:. "I guess it's for discipline." Still, he 
says~ you can't break the rules: no drugs, 
no alcohol, no women. "If you break the 
rules," he says, "they penalize you. Some-
tim~s you get kicked out or they give you _ 
what they call 'P.R T' 
Personal Reflec-
tion Time." Residents on PRT are unable 
to leave the premises of the rehab center, 
and even during the allowable times, cur-
fews are normally ten on weekdays and 
eleven o'clock on weekends. The men are 
not allowed to call friends. 


A man appears from the grey door of 
the storeroom as Jared is still talking. That 
man points his finger towards Jared, ges-
turing for him to come in. "Uh-oh," sings 
Jared as he goes over and looks at me with 
his eyebrows raised . 


XI. Sought through prayer and 
meditation to improve onr conscious 
contact with people there, ptaying only 
for knowledge and the power to carry 
that out. 


At Yale, the conception of Salvation 
Army seems to be dominated by the 
clothes the store sells. Paul shows me Yale 
Daily News articles written about it be-
fore, including one about Yalies looking 
for wild clothing at Salvo for the Safety 
Dance, the school's annual 80s-themed 
dance. Another describes "finding an out-
fit for under $100 in New Haven." 


But there's more than cheap stuff in 
the discarded piles: eve 
· g in Salvo 
is a transfer of histories, from the mother 
who chooses to donate her daughter's 
once-loved doll to the workers in the 
storeroom who, in silence, puc rags on 
sweaters as they work through their thera-
PY• to the customers, the ones who choose 
carefully amongst rhe debris for something 
new ro call rheir own, items rhey can give 
a future. 


XII. Having had an awakening as the 
result of these steps, we tried to carry 
this message to all people, and to prac-
tice these principles in our affairs. 


I walk to rhe COs and rapes section, 
nor really knowing what I'm looking for, 
but pick up a hand-made cover: September 
2001 mix. Jared walks over. "September 
11, '0 1, char's my birthday." He can't pos-
sibly be seven years old. He's calking about 
che day he was incarcerated, in Connecti-
cut, as the Towers fell. "I wish I never had 
rhac birth dare," he says. "I rry ro forger 
about the past ... bur then I see something 
like that. And it brings ir all back." 


Some things remain deeply private in 
Jared's memory. These memories, these 
pasts, nestled within a person, may need 
nothing more than an object, a tide, the 
ring of a bell to Aoar into consciousness. 


Salvo is a spiritual space, a private 
place. The organization seems almost a 
blend of the public and the private: giving 
people the garments with which chey pres-
ent themselves to the world, and, behind 
closed doors, trying to heal their tortured 
inner selves. Asking questions may only 
probe further inro the hurt, the memories. 
Maybe this is why Salvarion Army prefers 
fewer questions. Salvo remains hidden, 
steeped in a habit of silence. 


While Ted nurses his old wounds and 
repeats his mistakes, Lenny and Cindy live 
happily, blurring their pasts, focusing on 
the present: Lenny perhaps pretending he 
was never in rehab, adjusting to a com-
pletely new lifesryle. Each time an item 
makes it our from the warehouse and is 
purchased by someone, char item's history 
replaced by its new purpose. 


Back in my dorm, I place the Sep-
tember mix inro my computer. The com-
purer hums and I am hopeful, bur it srops 
abruptly. No songs show up. What now? 
Salvation Army's items policy: no re-
turn. 


TN] 
Kangki \~mg is a ju11ior i11 Bra11jord Col-
~g~. and a11 Associau Editor of TN}. 


**Nerf Dreams**
**Author: Ike Wilson**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
WHEN YOU WALK through the front 
door of my compact suburban house in 
California, you find that the foyer, family 
room, dining room, and kitchen are not · 
separated in any clear-cut way. There are 
no walls, just open space. It's one common 
room, cluttered with a shoe rack, a table, 
bookshelves, kitchen appliances, a couch, 
my morn's unused exercise machine, and 
five video game consoles. From the time 
I was little, it was clear that this was the 
place where every member of my family 
could be left alone to do his or her own 
thing: even today, my dad oddly obsesses 
over the dirty dishes, my mom and young-
er brother lounge around on the couch 
watching TY, and I shoot around on the 
miniature Nerfbasketball hoop that hangs 
from the front door. 


It isn't my first Nerf hoop; I've had doz-
ens since my parents bought me my first 
one to complement the foam basketball 
I already had. Though to most kids this 
present might pale in comparison to the 
neon Nerf blasters that fire harmless, pufl)r 
bullets, I could not have been happier. 
Over the years, the sound of the back-
board thumping against our front door as 
the ball goes through the net has become 
just as familiar as the wailing of rny dad's 
favorite Delta blues artists blaring from 
our stereo on Sunday mornings while he 
compulsively scrubs the kitchen. 


I used to play on the Nerf hoop while 
I watched television. I remember·watch-
ing the first season of American Idol, ball in 
hand, the rest of the family in their usual 
spots. All of the contestants not named 
Kelly Clarkson were crying and screaming 
about getting cut while we laughed hys-
terically at them. "Get over it!" we yelled. 
Some of t~em looked especially miserable. 
"I knew I would make it," they kept say-
ing. "This doesn't make sense. I know I'm 
the one; I'm different, I'm special." 


Instead, I started my own 
franchise, the San Francisco 
Secret. 
I would be the best 
player on the Secret, a de-
ceptively strong 6:11 ';} speedy 
guard who could score from 
anywhere on the court and 
dunk like Michael jordan. 
The show went to a commercial break, 
and I resumed play on my Nerf hoop. I 
jumped as high as I could and slammed 
the little ball through the plastic rim, lost 
in a dunk-filled dream world of my own. 
I had escaped from the reality of basket-
ball played on ten-foot goals. I hurriedly 
retrieved the ball from underneath the 
dinner table and scurried to the back of 
the room for a difficult long shot. It was a 
rare miss. The ball careered off the rim and 
fell right into my dad's bowl of noodles on 
the table. Some of the soup flew out at his 
face, but he didn't seem too upset. Still 
chuckling at the pop star wannabes we had 
just seen on TY, he nonchalantly wiped his 
face, extracted the ball from the broth, and 
handed it back to me. I got right back into 
the game . 


I was fortunate that my parents encour-
aged my incessant, delusional trips into 
the world of Nerf, where all hoop dreams 
came true. Everything would unfold as I 
imagined it would, without me ever hav-
ing to go outside and work on my real-life 
game. First, I would go to Los Altos High, 
where I'd be the star of the varsity squad. 
Then, I would play for Stanford and lead 
the team to a few championships. Then it 
was on to the NBA, where glorim 1s indi-
vidual playoff performances were sure to 
come. Usually, I would perform beauti-
fully in these games. But sometimes, for 
the fans, I would struggle, only to come 


The team I would play for didn't ex-
ist yet. I liked living in the Bay Area, 
so I figured I'd play there once I got to 
the NBA. Still, I didn't want to play for 
the perpetually abysmal Warriors, based 
in nearby Oakland. Instead, I started my 
own franchise, the San Francisco Secret. 
I would be the best player on the Secret, 
a deceptively strong 6' 1" speedy guard 
who could score from anywhere on the 
court and dunk like Michael Jordan. 
Like my real basketball-playing self (who 
today stands only 5'10"), my NBA self 
would be a good ball handler who could 
drive to the lane. But like my Nerf sel£ 
he could also shoot accurately from 40 
feet away. 


I made up and memorized 
how many points, rebounds, and assists 
I would average, and when I watched 
NBA games I would compare real play-
ers' stats with my foam ones. 


Not only was I going to be a local 
icon, I would also be an entrepreneur, 
the new-age Jordan. I would have my 
own line of shoes that I designed mysel£ 
I drew up dozens of full-color blueprints 
for sneakers and assigned each of them 
specific prices. 


None of them would 
cost less than $150 - after all, they were 
Nikes. On each shoe, the N would be 
sewn on in white, and the IKE would be 
in black (like the Secret's uniform). My 
parents were proud of how creative and 
athletic their son could be. 


Luke "Sky" Walker was the Secret's 
center, a 6' 11" beast of a man. He could 
shoot threes like those white guys on 
Indiana's college team and shove people 
around like Shaquille O'Neal. The rest 
of the starting lineup consisted of my 
cousin Julian and two of my best friends, 
Chris and Adam. Together, we won ten 
straight championships, setting every 
imaginable record (75 wins in a season) 
and winning every possible award 
one 
year the five of us were all be selected for 
the five-person All-NBA first team-
along the way. 


As I grew up, I began the trying to 
achieve my dreams outside of my living 
room. In the driveway, I honed the drib-
bling moves I had learned shooting Nerf 
to dart past my dad. At school, I chal-
lenged my friends to HORSE at recess 
and routinely emerged victorious. I spent 
summers at Stanford's basketball camp 
trying to impress my future coaches. I 
joined a youth league and ma-de the all-
star team at the end of the year, but by the 
time I finally got to Los Altos High, I only 
made the JV team. Nonetheless, byy high 
school's end, I had done pretty well for 
mysel£ which had served only to perpetu-
ate my basketball delusion. But the dream 
ended there. College coaches never came · 
calling, and I was forced to confront real-
ity, my American Idol moment. I wasn't 
like that Southern girl who had grown up 
to be Kelly Clarkson, or that skinny kid 
from Wilmington, NC named Michael 
Jordan. I wasn't destined for greatness. 
Contrary to what I had once thought, I 
had never been on an inevitable path to 
success, never on the road from nobody to 
household name. 


Together, we won ten straight 
championships, setting every 
imaginable record (75 wins 
in a season) and winning ev-
ery possible award-
one year 
the 
ve of us were all be se-
lected for the jive-person All-
NBA first team 
along the 
way. 


As it became dear that I was never go-
ing to make it as big as I had previously 
imagined, I would come home from youth 
league or ]V games and pick up my Nerf 
ball. I would escape from the memories of 
forgettable performances and return to my 
basketball utopia, where there still existed 
a hope that one day my lofty expectations 
could be fulfilled. It was a fantasy fueled 
only by- the fact that I happened to be a 
true champion Nerf-baller. 


I had once 
made a house-record 51 consecutive foul 
shots from my imaginary free throw line-
five feet up from the gas heater in the back 
of the room, where there was a dark linear 
spot on the hardwood Boor. I was best at 
shooting straight-on (probably because the 
fronts of Nerf rims start to conveniently 
sag as the hoops get worn down), but I 
was fairly consistent from anywhere in the 
room. Although on real courts I was more 
of a slasher good at driving to the basket 
but mediocre at scoring from long range-
! became a pure shooter in the world of 
Ner£ invincible to all who dared challenge 
me. 


Now at college, I'm trying to make up 
for the real basketball deficiencies I largely 
ignored as a kid. I play a lot - in intra-
murals, for the university club team, and 
even as a practice player for the varsity 
girls' squad. No one comes to watch me 
play anymore, but I don't care too much. 
I remain excited to go practice, and even 
though I'm kind of a nobody now. I'm still 
pleased to have come at least this far as a 
basketball player. 


But I still have my Nerf hoop, just in 
case I need an occasional fix. It hangs on 
my bedroom door, facing out into the 
common room because my room isn't 
spacious enough to shoot around in. 
I 
play whenever I'm feeling restless, and my 
suitemates don't mind, probably because I 
look like an idiot. My forehead is above 
rim-level, and when friends come over to 
find me standing by the hoop, I blush. But 
it doesn't matter. We all know I could still 
beat anyone who tries to take me on. 


TN 
Ike Wilson is a junior in Trumbull College. 



**Letters to the Editor**
**Author: The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 30**

As Yates preeminent undergraduate publication for investigative journalism, in-depth news analysis, and incisive commentary on New Haven 
and university affairs, The New Journal receives its fair share of correspondence from readers, admirers and prospective contributors. yYpically, due 
to space constraints, we are unable to publish letters to the editors. However, having fired most of our staff to weather the recession, we have more 
than enough room. So, in an attempt to give something back to the thousands of individuals who have taken the time to sit down at a computer 
and drop us a line, we have decided to run a very special Letters Section in their honor. So here, for the first time ever, we present an unedited 
sample straight from The New Journals Gmail inbox. Enjoy! 
0 
, 
•• 0 •••, •• •••••, ••• •••••,, o ••, •<•O••• o• •o • • •• 0 0 o •••,, •••• •••••- • , •• ,, • •••• ••• •• •• •••• ••• ••••, ••••, ••, •••••••• •••- 0 ,
0 ••••, , 0
, ••••• ••• ,, ·~••••• • •• • •
, 0 , ''"'*'', ,o M 
1:1 
1.1\::E to thewi=tchesdos, 
ihow de!
. 
?f3~l1ltaf.ma 
JJrJIJJ31Jmillm~:a-7~'J>f&p , 
~1>!ll!*J!\? il-W-!i131~Rf01SI*~tiHJff~M'~I!!I
:ffl*~l!!ll!J. ~i!U1"1f. 
J;;Q91l1NJ, ~~ 
.. 
.te-~i!O. !19t.\11JtPJJ;;(_,, {§<fa! 
· El ~t£*P.1l>.li~Jt!ili*~ftliiM*~? it'F:!I1ftiB9.. @JtiitiJt(iS(§tJ&~M
JJ~il!!!:f"l.BJ!t~~Jl. .RI@1ff!IJA~ttlf*tllil11J~it·. JRUt1i1~-·i'ifl7, {1)1 
~~1$13t!J~Il#J~mlll&:i£1Sl~. ~ffJJii.t~t~J;{"F~ft'tfi~~~.taJi~7!lfO~EM~
····················-···············--···----·-----································--·-···········-······-·····-······· ···································································· ···························· ····························· 
. · .. 
i!lHX.tl~} 
Stwmd'f1t 
SMJtMAi! 
l ; l~ 
to tile N<;m J®n 
t Pe¢9'1!!i 
r TttY!i 
§ !ll!l!l\Y 
Co<!tools 
Iu~ 
-. ··;:;;,::::. 
-::/;)liE::~~~: 
,....,.,.. __ 
.... _., ·------... ~--- ... ... .... ____ 
. ! Search, add, or inlfile 
: 
. ..... 
-~ - ~-......__- -
oc ~~- JotJmal 
!..aa;ling .•. 
' .. , ...... . 
. .. _.,.·.· . .,.-. 
' 
Giva Gmallro: 
. . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . ........ . 
. . .·. 
fj@Jfi~.IIJ!:!(BJfi~l'~ : 
~!:'lli!~JUtFW;llll? ~!lt.r7f!.¥1Jitl.? <m~~i..~? J!~ 7li:Hf:Ji81ftl()*._? ~Jilf1lt
:fatt-$.? jiJJ>~jJ~~~=~ 
' ~le? )X~(oij •• 
fli!!.(il8PJ~~~~ 
1. 3l;£SI~tBJ~~ra!~PitifdJUitl~(LiJB.ril~l3il~.JS~\t;fdl.W. 
Dutha EllmJnat.d By 
;>,"""'"' I i' 
2. ti3LIP·(;l~l'ii.J. •-t-Plfl~!!tUti!:fi , ~Qt.)@J$Q~~f51'-l;t*!!.I-1'1Pe9IJIJ~ft11tilt)t. 
········-············ · ·-···· · ········ · ············· -······ · ·· ······························-·~ · · -·······-~································ · · · ··········· · ··················· ························· 
I~ 
l..ann..,. to me 
siOOw <Mai!lt Aug 
3. ~tsl~(liJ~11tfi~J::f'SEOli.~Jilttit::. ~~GOOGLE~Jlfi}$Jl~JSI,GOOGLE!l11 
l'li.~liflamiHliii\tlttJ:JteiJii£. 
l For lmm41d • 
Releue 
Media Cont.ac:t 
4. ~IJI~flilfft~!ifi.Utl'Ef.*l~rlil~tl.fiUIJJl .. 
~. 11W1iJ8. *lil·1/i~·~fiiiE71\'1.
5. ~all~(lil~**-tfl ~~-


**Title: Letters to the New Journal (Endnote) I X**
**Author: Monica**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Greetings 
My name is Miss Monica, I saw your email address from site today and I become interested in you, so if you donl mind, I will 
really want to be having communication with you so that we can get to know each other better and see what will happen in 
fub.n. 
My pictures will be sending to you and other some of proof of my self fot you to know whom I am,Remember that nationality Of 
appearance is not important. The most important thing is love m as much as life and nature are concem, 
Honestly I am not searching for games, or contrary something like that, I hope to find that special person in you, and somea~e 
with whom I can create the friendship and good love I've always want and who knows what could happen from there. 
Beat regards 
Monica .... 
A lot of love and kiss 
September 2009 


**Title: Letters to the New Journal (Endnote) 1 x**
**Author: NATIONAL LOTTERY**

Dear Lucky Winner, 
YouremaiiiD was awarded (£1,000,000,00 GBP), in the tobacco Promo. 
1.Full Name: 
2.Full Address: 
3.Status: 
4.0ccupation: 
5.Phone Number. 
G. Country: 
Wamlng Thla m_. mrj not be from w'-tl 11 claim a liD be -. 
o1 foUow4ne 8ftY llnU In it 0< ol providing th• 
.. nd., wtth any pwaonal lnfonnaUon. 


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Jack Fuller**
**Page number(s): 32**

YALE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 
3 9002 08153 7640 
' 
• 
j 
r 
< 
J 
1n 
s 
. Besides, yo· and J both 
know that · e Nelv 
our.nal is just a · n · · 
ground for 
· ia types 
Uke TNJ f(HJn · 
:er~ and 
ie3 
'Js 
of t,., ·t··1.i!l">.· c··,-
. -
~:~: 
~
-
: ·... 
-~: 
.. 
,. 
·,· 
-.-
-.·-.-· 
~"" 
· ·· ., · Trlbu ~•·, Jack Fuller. 
d · 
thi 
just 
· bee 
. The New 
Journal is tn · 
. n· · . . : 
. . 
a so has · 
;%"!!. 
s pposed 
~I'm 
be 
rn 
cred~t. 
i 
I 
go 
a,'ras. 

