Publication date: 1999
Volume: X
Issue number: 5

**MASTHEAD:**
- PUBLISHER: David Sifoa
- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Michael Gerber
- MANAGING EDITORS: Ian Blatchford, Daniel Brook
- DESIGNER: Nicholas Jitkoff
- PRODUCTION MANAGER: Eric Rothkopf
- BUSINESS MANAGER: Navin Manglani
- PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR: Andrew Youn
- ASSOCIATE BUSINESS MANAGER: Makiko Harunari
- ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Ronen Givony, John Swansburg
- RESEARCH DIRECTORS: Julia Kardon, Alan Schomberg
- CIRCULATION AND SUBSCRIPTIONS MANAGER: Anya Kammaz
- Staff: Vanesa Agard-Jones, Jason D’Cruz, Hrishikesh Hirway, Monia Kim, Li Wang, Jacob Yuan
- Members Advisory Board: Emily Aughton, Constance Clement, Peter B. Cooper, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Iainie Ruckow, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Slade, Fred Suchman, Thomas Strong
- Assistants: Richard Blow, Jay Carney, Richard Connitt, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Lauren Rabin, Steven Weisman, David Yergin
- Friends: Steve Ballou, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blair Bennett, Edward B. Bennett, Jr., Edward B. Bennett III, Paul S. Bennett, Gerald Bruck, Barbara Bund, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Davis, Jonathan M. Davis, Constance Clement, Elisha Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Arly Coun, Jenny and Larry Coun, Masi Omison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Frumkin, Collicy Fried, Arturo Gandara, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Tom Griggs, Stephen Hellman, Jane Kameroky, Brooks Kelley, Roger Kimball, Andrew J. Kumeiski, Jr., Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowenstein, E. Nobles Lowry, Hank Mansbach, Martha E. Neil, Pam Neill, Howard H. Newcomb, Sean O’Brien, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Phyllis C. Randall, Rollin Riggs, Mark Rinella, Nicholas X. Rimpoulos, Stuart Rohrbach, Arlen and Arthur Solow and Debbie Solow, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Elizabeth and William Slade, Thomas Strong, Elizabeth Tarello, Alan and Betty Torello, Melissa Turney, Allen and Sarah Wardwell, Daniel Yergin and Angela Sturgis Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

features
Ghetto Superstar - Ada Yuan
Shots in the Dark: Deus ex Machina - Hrishikesh Hirway
Lost in Translation - Karen Paik
The Home Court Advantage - Jessica Winter
Better Dead Than Read - John Swansburg

standards
Points of Departure
Essay: Sex Appeals - Brad Shy
The Critical Angle: The United Stakes of America - Ian Blatchford (reviewing *The Stakeholder Society*, Bruce Ackerman and Anne Alstott)
Endnote: Off the Beaten Path! - Julia Kardon


**Title: Ghetto Superstar**
**Author: Ada Yuan**
**Page number(s): 6**
A new director tries to clean up New Haven's troubled Housing
Authority, but who defines the project?


**Title: Shots in the Dark: Deus ex Machina**
**Author: Hrishikesh Hirway**
**Page number(s): 11**


**Title: Lost in Translation**
**Author: Karen Paik**
**Page number(s): 14**
A congregation of Kortan immigrants transforms its children
into Kortan-Americans


**Title: The Home Court Advantage**
**Author: Jessica Winter**
**Page number(s): 16**
Judge Jorge Simon dishes out justice, family-style.


**Title: Better Dead Than Read**
**Author: John Swansburg**
**Page number(s): 21**
A Cold Warrior accuses Yale University Press of un-American activities.


**Title: Essay: Sex Appeals**
**Author: Brad Shy**
**Page number(s): 26**


**Title: The Critical Angle: The United Stakes of America**
**Author: Ian Blatchford**
**Page number(s): 28**
reviewing *The Stakeholder Society*, Bruce Ackerman and Anne Alstott


**Title: Endnote: Off the Beaten Path!**
**Author: Julia Kardon**
**Page number(s): 30**



**Title: Arabian Nights**
**Author: Fayre Davis**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Arabian Nights 
faster than expected, he entered the restaurant 
business. In 1971, he opened the first 
Mamoun's Restaurant in Greenwich Village, 
New York City. Gradually, he was able to 
bring his immediate family-three elder 
brothers and two younger sisters-to the U.S. 
Together, they expanded the, business, 
founding Mamoun's in New Haven and 
inviting more members of the family to join 
them. 

Suleiman and Belial, Mamoun's nephews, 
are two of the many relatives working in the 
New Haven restaurant. I spent a recent 
evening there during Belial's shift. He 
had little time to talk; the 
restaurant was filled with a 
constant stream of customers. 

Even as he paused to answer 
my questions, his eyes moved 
around the room, alert to every 
detail, every customer's need. 
Then, at r20 AM, when the place 
finally emptied, he had the 
chance co talk as he swept 
the floor and mopped it 
clean with ammonia: "My father told me 
cleanliness is the most important thing." 

Bella! maintained his characteristic focus as he 
worked, only speaking to answer direct 
questions. "A family-run business takes care in 
a special way," he said. "My father says that 
you should think of everything you do as if it 
is for yourself. If you don't eat· the 
food,don'tserveit." 

I asked Belial to 
put on the music 
most often played at 
Mamoun's. Soon a passionate, 
deep, female voice was singing from the 
dining room speakers. This is the voice of 
Oum Koulsoum, he told me, the most 
famous Arab singer of the century. Born in 
Egypt, she was loved throughout the Middle 
East. When she died 30 years ago, 250,000 
people attended her funeral. "What does she 
sing about?" I asked. "Love songs," Belial 
replied. "Love songs full of hurt." 

As I listened, I looked around the room 
more closely. O n the walls around the 
counter, there are large color photographs of 
the Kaaba at Mecca-the holiest place in the 
world for Muslims-surrounded by millions 
of pilgrims dressed in white. When I asked 
Belial about these, he told me that Mamoun 
himself had just returned to the U.S. after 
going on the hajj-a holy pilgrimage to 
Mecca that every Muslim hopes to perform 
once in his lifetime. He had gone with his 
brothers. 

I turned to the Qu'ranic inscriptions hung 
around the room, and asked Bella! if he could 
tell me what they said. He hesitated. 
According co traditional Islamic belief, the 
Qu'ran is the word of God and no translation 
of its Arabic verses can do justice to the 
original meaning. Still, he cautiously provided 
an interpretation pf one: "God bless this 
place." 

It's a popular spot, Mamoun's of New Haven. 
You probably know the place well-the dim 
lantern-cast light, plant-screened windows 
and muted browns. Step over the threshold, 
and it looks like you're a world away from 
New Haven's Howe Street. Elements of the 
Middle East cover the space: ornate Persian-
style rugs, calligraphic inscriptions from the 
Qu'ran, Arab vocal music playing in the 
background. Is the atmosphere authentic, or is 
it only part of a decor contrived to make us 
think we're eating authentic falafel? 
"Seems authentic," more than one 
student said of the food. "It's ;t 
comfortable place," a place to 
relax, eat, chat and smoke. The 
room itself is definitely part of 
the experience, and it's hard not 
to notice the objects in it. But rather 
than propelling most customers into 
probing questions, they serve as a 
backdrop. "I was after a timeless 
look," says Jim Gordeuk, the 
restaurant's business manager since 
its establishment in 1977. "Not too weird, or 
too modern, but comfortable." Obviously his 
plan worked. But although Jim might have 
put them up to create a "look," some of the 
decorations hanging in this room hold more 
meaning. 

First of all, Mamoun is a real guy. 
He is the young man with the ~ 
traditional Arab headdress ~ _ 
1 YJ - - -L _ r. 
in the black and white .. c,qlj ': 
~ 
Y 
._,, photograph hanging behind the 
•• 
Q 
counter. Now he's 57, and the silver '--.. ~ 
swords hanging on either side of the picture--
their points meeting below the word 
"Mamoun" -have been in the family for 
generations. 

Mamoun Chater was born in Damascus, 
Syria, the oldest continually inhabited city in 
the world. He grew up in the neighborhood 
of Bab Salaam ("Door of Peace"), one of the 
seven gates of the capital, and came co 
America as a student in 1970. His plan was co 
continue his studies and become a 
pharmacist, but when his money ran out 


**Title: Spaceship Earth**
**Author: Ben Smith**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

Fifty years ago, the Monsanto Corporation 
produced PCBs, the chemicals that make 
Hudson River stripedhass a-health risk. In the 
1970s, they produced a particularly dangerous 
variety of the defoliant known as Agent 
Orange. In the early 1990s, the corporation 
sold its controversial chemicals unit, cut toxic 
emissions dramatically, began to talk of 
"synergy" and "sustainability," and won more 
enemies than ever. 

As Monsanto spent billions transforming 
into a genetic engineering powerhouse, it 
aroused public disdain on a wide variety of 
issues. The European Union banned 
Monsanto's genetically modified seeds. 
Organic Farmers complained that Monsanto's 
super-pesticides, produced by the plant's very 
own cells, would create breeds of resistant 
super-pests. And worldwide suspicion has 
greeted the company's acquisition of patents 
for the ominously named "terminator 
technology," a genetic engineering technique 
which will protect Monsanto's patented crop 
varieties by insuring that a seed's offspring will 
be infertile. 

Monsanto tried to defuse criticism ~y 
trumpeting its hopes to "feed the world," to 
reduce pesticide use by increasing 
effectiveness. But disaster struck during the 
first week of the ad campaign when Great 
Britain's Prince Charles responded with a well 
publicized endorsement of organic farming 
and a con<!,emnation of genetic engineering. 

Still, the corporation has thus far held on co 
the right to slip genetically engineered crops, 
unannounced, into such staples of the U.S. 
food supply as the McDonald's french fry. 
Terrified chat regulators will slap "Genetically 
Engineered" labels on its produces, Monsanto 
has embarked on a novel public relations 
venture for the new millennium, and the 
name of the game is pathos. 

And so I felt bad for Robert Horsch. The 
diminutive vice president of the Monsanto 
Corporation struggled with a hostile audience 
and a faltering voice on a rainy Wednesday 
afternoon in the Forestry School's gloomy 
Sage Hall. He paused in his discussion of 
corporate synergy and "Spaceship Earth" to 
glance uneasily at the large crowd. He smiled 
plaintively. "I hope there's no pies thrown," he 
said. Horsch had good reason to worry: his 
boss, Monsanto chief Robert Shapiro, took a 
pie in the face a few months ago in San 
Francisco, and Yale environmental activists 
held heated debates over the ethics of pie-
throwing in the weeks preceding Horsch's 
arrival. When the day came, the plant 
botanist-turned-V.P. got off easy-after an 
extended, combative question-and-answer 
period, six undergraduates stormed the stage 
to present him with the "Victor Frankenstein 
Award for Unrestrained Progress in 
Technology." As the protesters launched into a 
skit, Horsch held his award aloft, smiling 
uncertainly, until a silver-haired Forestry 
School administrator took him firmly by the 
arm, confiscated his award and seated him 
along the wall. 

When I arrived the next morning at the 
restaurant on the 19th floor of the Omni 
Hotel, I found Horsch at a small corner table. 
Dressed in a light green shirt and earth-tone 
tie, he bought me yogurt and coffee with the 
air of an uncertain suitor. Then Horsch, a 
man in early middle age with large glasses and 
a quizzical look, set about explaining how it 
feels to be so misunderstood. 

Horsch ruefully remembered the 
optimism that marked the beginning of this 
decade for Monsanto. A denim-shined model 
executive named Robert Shapiro-but 
known, of course, as Bob--moved into the 
position of chief executive from his old post as 
the head of Monsanto's Nutrasweet Group. 
APRIL 16, 1999 
"He is a very thoughtful person. I'd call him a 
philosopher as well as a business leader," 
Horsch said. 

After the expensive, 
counterproductive ad campaign intended co 
improve Monsanto's image, Shapiro lead the 
company into a period of intense self-
examination, Horsch said. 

"Monsanto's position in advertisements 
over the past year has been oversimplified, 
over-stated," Horsch admitted penitently. 

After all, repentence is the first step. 
Monsanto hasn't perfected its new public 
image, he said, but "we're pretty sure it 
involves discussion, listening, engagement." 

And, as it turns out, all is for the best in the 
best of all possible worlds. "The questions 
have triggered a personal journey or 
exploration into the social issues chat, as a 
scientist, I had largely ignored." Now, he 
muses, "I realize science and technology can 
create problems as well as solve problems." 

Naturally.


**Title: Liner Notes**
**Author: Caroline Marvin**
**Page number(s): 5**

Peering over the top of her New York Times, 
my mother barked, "Did you catch anything 
yet?" My father pretended not co hear. 

I smiled at him apologetically. Watching 
him cast was like watching golf on television: 
it quickly moved from uninteresting co 
excruciating. All the fly-fishing gadgets in the 
world couldn't make the trout bite. I couldn't 
help but snicker at the fucility of the venture. 

An underground world of fly-fishing 
thrives at Yale, thanks in large part to the 
Migdalski family. Ed Migdalski, a former 
ichthyologist at the Peabody Museum, served 
as the director of Yale's Outdoor 
Education and Club Sport 
programs and as the Fishing Club's 
advisor. An accomplished fisherman, 
Migdalski has traveled the world, 
breaking fishing records and 
collecting samples for the museum. 

Migdalski has since retired-he rurned 81 
this year-but his son, Tom, is also an 
accomplished angler. As a toddler, Tom began 
fishing in the family's duck pond, which the 
elder Migdalski would stock each spring. Now 
Tom occupies the post his father held, 
ensuring that the sport-or as the most 
dedicated argue, the art-of fly-fishing 
continues co flourishes at Yale. He runs the 
Fly-Fishing Club and, with Ken MacKenzie, 
teaches a coUISe in the painstaking art of fly-
tying at Payne Whitney Gymnasium. 

Each year, Yale stocks its own trout pond 
in East Lyme, Connecticut. The students, 
faculty, staff and alumni who make the one-
hour trip co the pond may be expert 
fishermen and fly-tiers or novices who have 
never wetted a line. Although the number of 
fly-fishermen at Yale is small, the camaraderie 
is great. "I've never met a fly-fisher I didn't 
like," said John Gould (BK '99). Relationships 
are forged and nourished around fly-fishing. 

Remember the tear-jerking scenes of familial 
love between Brad Pitt and his brother and 
father in A River Runs Through It? 

There is a mysticism co the sport. 
Something about it compels everyone from 
the novice to the experienced angler to put 
pen to paper. From tales of father-son jaunts 
to the drama of "the one that got away," fly-
fishing inspires literature. According to Joe 
Furia (Pc 'oo), Isaac Walton's book The 
Compleat Angler has been reprinted more than 
any other book except the Bible. 

With chis notion in mind, James Prosek 
(BR '97) and Furia first started the Yale Anglers' 
journal. Furia came to Yale as a pre-frosh 
during Bulldog Days. He brought his rod 
with him because "you never know when 
you're going co pass by a stream," and ended 
up casting on the lawn with then-
undergraduate Prosek, who has since authored 
numerous books on the subject. His first, 
Trout: An Illustrated History, was published 
while he was still an undergraduate. 

Poems, essays and stories by everyone 
from William F. Buckley to Elizabeth Bishop, 
Ed Migdalski and Vmcent Giroud, a curator 
at the Beinecke Library-which houses one of 
the 
biggest 
collections of 
fishing 
literature in 
the United States-have graced the pages of 
the journal. That said, some speak of the spon 
with slighdy alarming devotion. Is fly-fishing 
really a lens through which to view life, or the 
embodiment of the epic struggle between 
man and fish on that boundless sea? 

Still, you can't help but appreciate the 
Zen-like quality of the sport. In the editor's 
note to the ina\lgural edition of the Yale 
Anglers' journal, Furia urges the reader, "Read 
on, pen your passions, and always hope for a 
bigger fish, a better hatch, or a smoother 
case." 


**Title:  (Untitled)**
**Author: (No Author Listed)**
**Page number(s): 6**

A 
.rusud highway overpass blcxlt~ half: the sky to the west 
of Farnam Courts, one of the-iiaily developmena run by 
HANH, the Housing Aumtiq of New Hawn. On 
1-91, it takes merely seconds to speed t;\ the sprawling compfttx below 
on the way north to Hartford or soath to f-9S al\d ~York City. 

Down on the ground, though, the three blocks from one end of 
Farnam to the other seem to go on forever, an iftfinite stretch of brick 
and iron railing. Within the walls, empty plazas of clothesline and 
concrete blanket the project in stillness. From down below, the 
highway and its massive concrete pillars separate the area from the rest 
of New Haven, allowing just one lint of traffic, Grand Avenue, in and 
out. Only Franklin Street veers off Grand into Farnam CourtS· 
running between parking lots and residential buildings to the weeds 
and railroad track at the northern end of the project. At Farnam's 
entrance, on the corner of Franklin and Grand, stand wire fences and 
old jungle gyms pounded into the dirt. Welcome to The Ghetto. 



**Title: 5 u p E R 5 T A R**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
5 u p E R 5 T A R 
"The Ghetto," like "The Jungle" (Church St. South) and "The Terror 
Dome" (Rockview and Brookside}, serves as a reminder of the city's 
worst drug days. Along with the names come territorial hand signals 
and a stream of young black men who remember when wandering into 
another project likely meant never returning to your own. Back then 
the projects were true ghettos, whose "get tough or get taken" way of 
life forced young men like A.J. Ogman to carry their first guns by age 
twelve. Just four years ago, the fear of dying in Farnam Courts ran so 
high that A.J .'s brother, Bubba, now 21, never left home without a 
bulletproof vest. It saved his life one night when he took six bullets 
meant for someone else. 


But Bubba's mother, Mary Ogman, hasn't heard gun shots in 
Farnam Courts for nearly two years. Both violent crime and drug use 
in the city are down, and most of the project's toughest residents are 
now either dead or in jail. On sunny days, Farnam's walkways fill with 
kids on their bikes and residents chatting with their neighbors. The 
Housing Authority, which constructs and maintains all subsidized 
housing in the city, recently added front stairs and sidewalks to the 
development, and residents have begun to plant small gardens of 
squash and coUard greens in previously unused patches of dirt. Since I 
met Mary in October, the Housing Authority, under the new direction 
of Edward Bland, has also launched several major clean-ups of the area 
and has increased its contact with the Farnam Tenant Representative 
Council (TRC), of which Mary is president. Real progress, however, 
comes slowly. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban 
Development (HUD), classified HANH as "troubled" in 1997, and even if 
this classification is dropped after HANH's September 1999 inspection, it 
wiU have taken two years to meet minimum government standards. 


Hope for the future remains high, though, and A.J. Ogman reUs me 
that Farnam Courts is now considered one of the best housing 
developments in the city. But looking at graffiti-scrawled waJls, 
doorways covered in plywood, and an entrance strewn with plastic 
bags and old beer bottles, that isn't saying much. 


''Farnam's looking pretty clean," Bland says as he drives past 
the development in his green Ford Explorer, license plate 
"HANH-x." As the new Executive Director of HANH 
(affectionately pronounced "Hannah" by its staff), Bland spends most 
of his days driving to various sites in the city, checking on the work of 
his crews and listening to residents' concerns. The Housing Authority 
brought Bland to New Haven in January 1998, soon after it was 
classified as "troubled" and lost its HUD funding. While the Housing 
Authority coUects rent from its residents, it relies on federal funding to 
subsidize security, maintenance, and its much-needed Youth Crime 
Prevention and Drug Elimination programs. According to an April 
1998 report from HUD (the most recent statistics available), the number 
of families in need of housing assistance nationaUy has risen to 5·3 
million. Federal funding administered by housing authorities provides 
the- only opportunity for qualified families and single elderly an~ 
disabled residents to live decently while paying only 30 percent of thetr 
income, or $25, in rent, without the added cost of utilities. HUD makes 
APRIL 16, 1999 
clear, however, that subsidized housing should not mean substandard 
housing. In a September 1997 HUD inspection, New Haven's Housing 
Authority nearly failed across the board. 


Losing money is not unusual for housing authorities, which 
provide services for low-income families and individuals, but HANH 
had made few effons to coUect rent from residents who weren't paying 
or to fill its vacant units with those who could pay. As its earned 
income fell, HANH turned to HUD for more money. HUD offered 
subsidies and grants for security and drug elimination, but soon found 
HANH's social programs falling grossly behind their goals. Further 
inspection also revealed that HANH's administration had mysteriously 
misaUocated over $2.9 milJion in federal funds. Whether the money 
was disappearing because of inefficiency or into the pockets of HANH 
employees, it wasn't being used to maintain HANH's residential units. 


The Housing Authority's failure to inspect units or to complete work 
orders, even emergency ones, left many residents living in squalor, 
without heat or running water for months at a time. 


The 1997 failure was HANH's fourth in four years, earning the 
Authority a place on Huo's short and infamous list of "troubled" 
agencies. HUD demanded that HANH find a new director and begin 
complying with federal regulations, or face complete termination of its 
employees and dissolution of the entire agency. As a requirement of the 
new classification, control of HANH has moved from the state office in 
Hartford to the new HUD office for "troubled" agencies in Cleveland. 


The Cleveland office, under orders from Washington to monitor the 
New Haven Authority, has cut funding for HANH programs in both 
drug elimination and security provided by extra-duty police officers. 


Bland, HANH's choice for the new director, is considered a 
hardworking, no-nonsense kind of guy by staff and residents. Under 
the control of the 55-year-old former Director of Housing 
Management in Alexandria, Vtrginia, HANH has slowly been earning 
back Huo's trust, and has even regained its funding for the Drug 
Elimination program. While HUD continues to audit the agency every 
two months or so, it seems pleased with Bland's work He has already 
made over 25 staff changes, with still more to come. 


R
elief for residents, though, has been slow to come. The first 
time I visited Mary Ogman, I found her on a bench near the 
end of Franklin St., watching her 15-year-old son, Jack, rake 
leaves into a garbage bag. The walkway he was cleaning was public 
space, the concrete front yard for eleven other Farnam apartments, and 
technicaUy Housing Authority responsibility. Two months earlier the 
Housing Authority, under directions from HUD to cut spending, 
decided to dean Farnam only once a week The Authority has since 
changed that policy and comes to clean the project every weekday, but 
it does lircle to monitor the work of the cleaners and by the weekend 
the project looks nearly as bad as it did before the changes. Broken 
glass and empty beer cans lie near residents' aparonents and dozens of 
white plastic grocery bags rumble along the ground. The crash blows in 
from the highway and other pans of the city, but mainly it comes from 
the residents themselves, who have no trash cans outside their 
7


apartments and rarely take their crash to the 
dumpster in the parking lot. Mary hopes that 
by having Jack clean and set an example for 
other residents, she may alleviate the litter 
problem in Farnam. "Whenever I'm needed I 
try to 6t me and my children in it," she says. 
"These young people who are coming in 
here, you've got to teach them how to clean. 
We need to teach kids to stop thinking of this 
place as garbage. It's only garbage if you allow 
it to become garbage." 


Mary is a heavyset black woman with 
braided hair that shows tufts of white peeking 
from the top. When she walks, she does so 
slowly and with some difficulty. She moved 
into Farnam Courts 13 years ago, after the city 
condemned her previous house. The city also 
condemned and confiscated her furniture, so 
she had to start all over again. When she 
moved to the project, Mary had seven 
children; she's had six more since. A few years 
ago her eldest son died in a motorcycle 
accident. Still, her family has stayed together 
through the hardship, and most live with 
Mary in Farnam Courts. Mary has so many 
people come in and out of her apartment, she 
jokes that she never locks the door: "They 
come in and shout, 'Honey Mom, it's me!' 
and I say, 1\ll right!' I don't know who 'me' is, 
but it must be mine." 


All of her children help out with Mary's 
projecrs in Farnam's residential affairs: Jack 
cleans, AJ. distributes donated food to the 
residents, and one of her daughters is head of 
Edworrl Blond, !he new housing oulhority 
a younger version of the Tenant 
Representative Council which her mother 
runs. Mary got involved with Farnam's TRC as 
soon as she moved into public housing. 
"When I got here I wanted to make a 
difference," she says. The Farnam TRC works 
on the same small issues other TRCS work on 
throughout the city: solving maintenance 
problems or planning 'new 6dd trips for the 
residents. As President of the Farnam TRC, 
Mary presents resident concerns and plans to 
the Executive Direcror. Her big projecr this 
year is the learning center, which will take 
over Farnam's old community building. The 
center will feature day care, GED classes, and 
computer training (Bland's idea). Mary hopes 
to merge the technological learning with 
spiritual and moral learning. "I want to get a 
videotape of Jesus, you know, the cartoon, 
and show it on a Wednesday," she says. "We 
don't want to lose another generation of kids 
to disrespectfulness." 


Disrepect seemed the least of Mary's 
concerns as she watched Jack clean the yard. 
She worried that the Housing Authority was 
spending too much time correcting mistakes 
of the past, that Bland was not the kind of 
"people-person" who paid attention to what 
residents truly wanted: a livable environment 
and dependable security. She looked up to see 
Jack leaning against a tree, a pained 
expression on his face. Mary laughed, which 
she does a lot, and her eyes scrunched up 
tight, "Don't just stand there, Jack. Get 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


another bag and start working." Jack pushed 
himself off the tree and plodded upstairs to 
Mary's apartment. After all, he does clean up 
the neigbborhood for free. Mary laughed, 
"When I-feed him, that's his payment." 


E
dward Bland's salary comes from HUD, 
roughly $95,000 a year. He also gets the 
company car and a spacious office 
overlooking Audubon Court in downtown 
New Haven. Inside the HANH building, 
Bland's executive reception area is big enough 
to house at least three other offices; as it is, 
the office comfortably accommodates rwo 
secretaries and a duster of several couches. In 
Bland's office, a map of New Haven stands in 
center view. To the right of the map is his 
desk, and behind the desk every so often is 
Bland-a tall, grandfatherly black man with 
round glasses, white hair and a mustache. 


Growing up in Vienna, Maryland, a farm 
community of fewer than 500, Bland never 
dreamed of working in urban housing 
development. He graduated college with a 
B.A. in Social Sciences and French, worked as 
a schoolteacher, served in the Army and the 
Boy Scouts, and then happened to become 
friends with a recruitment officer from the 
Baltimore Housing Authority. From 
Baltimore he made his way through cities and 
promotions, moving from Baltimore to 
Columbus and on to Alexandria, Virginia, 
before finally landing his first Executive 
Directing position in New Haven-a city he 
had never seen. 


Bland is only one of a number of city-
hopping officials who make up the top 
management in housing authorities across the 
country. Dependent almost entirely on 
federal funds, the housing authorities that 
provide the bulk of housing for inner-city 
residents across the country have virtually no 
formal ties with their affiliated city. The city 
government is not required to give political or 
monetary support to its housing authority, 
and in turn, the housing authority has no 
obligation to respect the wishes of the city. 
The top directors and property managers in 
housing authorities move from city to city 
solving problems and troubleshooting, a club 
of super-housing players. Membership in the 
club requires expertise, but not necessarily in 
the specific problems each city presents. 


The specific problem Bland faced as I 
followed him one day was with a Section 8 
house on Blatchley Avenue. Usually Section 8 

**Title: Hairstyles For Men and Women**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10 
HAIRSTYLES 
For Men 
and Women 
821/2 Wall St. (865·9187) • 19 Broadway (865·9182) 
We Carry Nexxua, Blolege, Aveda, 
and Paul Mitchell Producta. 
No Appointment NKeasary. 
Congratulations to our 
graduating seniors: 
Jo Coakley . 
• 
Daniel Kellum 
Eli Kin tisch 
Lainie Rutkow 
Justin Sacks 
Ben Smith 
Genevieve Taft 
Heidi Vogt 
Jessica Winter


housing, which gives low-income families 
rent vouchers to live in private sector 
housing, is seen as cleaner, quieter, and more 
desirable than public housing projects. This 
building, however, had failed inspection on at 
least four different occasions, and due to the 
landlady's failure to enact the specified 
changes, the Housing Authority had withhdd 
its rent vouchers for nearly a year. With the 
landlady claiming she couldn't make 
improvements without rent money and the 
Section 8 managers claiming they couldn't 
give money unless they saw improvements, 
the situation had led to an eleven-month 
stalemate in which both sides had turned to 
Bland to resolve the issue once and for all. 
When he arrived at the residence, Bland 
headed around back to check out the yard. 
The landlady and her Section 8 manager 
were already on the porch, but Bland waved; 
he would be right back. He only needed one 
glance to make his assessment. 
"Mmm-hmin, that's going to need to be 
cleaned up," he mumbled to himself. Pieces 
of paper and decaying candy wrappers lined 
the inside of the chain-link fence surrounding 
the yard . 
The tails of Bland's long, brown trench 
coat whipped above the ground, flapping in 
·the wind. But Bland seemed oblivious to the 
cold. He called over the landlady and Monica 
Blazic, head of Section 8 in New Haven, and 
they moved on to the basement. 
"See that?" Bland pointed through the 
basement window to a storage pile. ·~ that 
junk will have to go. Someone could drop a 
cigarette down there and the whole place 
could go up." 
Blazic mentioned that the missing 
basement window also posed a security risk. 
The landlady looked disturbed. In the five 
minutes she'd been waiting to discuss the rent 
situation, she'd gotten three violations, and 
the HANH people hadn't even gone inside to 
check out the heating problem, which was 
the reason she thought they had come down 
in the first place. Bland kept going . 
"When was the last time you had this 
place painted? You've got some peeling paint 
over there, you know." He pointed to the 
door. "If I go in there and there's no heat, 
there won't be anything to discuss." 
As it turned out, there was heat inside the 
apartment, but the discussion took place only 
between the landlady and the resident, 
Alveria Sanchez. They argued about storage 
space and the neighbors while Bland carried a 
chair around the apartment and checked all 
the smoke detectors. He found one non-
functional smoke detector and waited 
patiently for the arguing to stop. 
"This is how we're going to resolve it," 
Bland began. He turned to the landlady. ''I'm 
not going to pay you until I'm assured that 
the smoke detector is .fixed, the window is 
fixed and the basement's cleaned out. We'll be 
back on Monday." To the resident: "[Within 
weeks] you'll have a new apartment." 
With that Bland took his leave. He had 
four other places to go. 
I watched Bland for the rest of the day, 
hopping from site to site, troubleshooting as 
he went. By the next Monday, the apartment 
on Blatchley Street had passed inspection and 
recently the landlady received her final rent 
payment. Sanchez has since moved out, 
although she has not finalized plans for a 
permanent residence. 


Bland's Housi'ng Authority is more 
efficient than ever, but as it works to please 
officials in Cleveland who in turn work to 
please officials in Washington, it often misses 
the reality of what residents need in New 
Haven, like trash cans and police officers on 
the corner. The ultimate goal remains 
increasing scores on HUD inspections; and at 
that Bland is a great success. If HUD says all 
the toilets in a certain unit must be fixed, 
Bland can do it. If HUD says all the 
apartments in a cenain unit must be sprayed 
for roaches, Bland can do it. If HUD says cut 
back on security and outdoor cleaning in all 
your units (HUD inspections do not grade for 
having guards or cleaning up lawns), he can 
do that, too. Bland confidently states that 
passing HUD inspection by September 1999 is 
not just a goal, it's a given. But passing 
inspection and creating livable housing 
projects ~ay not be the same thing, a 
problem that Bland and HUD seem slow to 
understand. "Things are going to be coming 
down around here. I want to see elbows and 
heels. In 10 years," he continues, "we'll be the 
best housing authority in the state, in the 
country. That's my vision. That's the goal 
we're shooting for." 
IIIII 
Aivffl4 Sanchez is a ps~. 
]ada Yuan, a junior in Branford Colkge, is on 
the staff ofTNJ. 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


**Title: Deus ex Machina**
**Author: John Swansburg**
**Page number(s): 11**

Deus ex Machina 
II 
Ill 
APRIL 16, 1999 
Hrishikesh Hirway 
The word "machine" is from a word in Greek, a noun that means device. The Greek 
connotes machines, akin to cranes, designed to hoist the actors on and off the stage 
in plays. Euripides, we think, employed machines to float his gods above the mortal 
souls below. Machines like these are best unseen. 
But here the photos stare at three machines. The camera, format large, allows a 
focus sharp. Beneath a cloth, the artist captures gear and blade and groove. 
Which is to say that the machines in these photographs could not be shown in such 
detail were it not for the antique machinery used to create them: the large format 
camera. The camera remains invisible, but just as the antique iambic meter of the 
preceding two paragraphs props up the prose unseen, a literary devise, so does the 
invisible machinery of the selected camera suspend these photographs, like the 
deus ex machina. 
-John Swansburg 



**Title: A congregation of Korean immigrants transforms its children into Korean-Americans**
**Author: Karm Paik**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A congregation of Korean immigrants transforms its children into Korean-Americans 
Koreans are the fastest-growing ethnic group in America. After the 
Immigration Ace of 1965, the number of Korean immigrants ballooned 
a hundred-fold in only a decade, from 200 co 20,000 annually. While 
nearly three-quarters of this co~unicy is affiliated with a Protestant 
church, embracing Western · religion hasn't meant assimilation: 
predominantly Korean congregations, like che United Methodist 
Church of New Haven, are prospering. 

At 2 PM every Sunday, Korean-American college students stream 
out of the building as parents ascend the brick steps with young 
children. They have come to chis church from all over Connecticut-
research scientists, post-doctorates, physicians, guest lecturers, 
computer scientists, engineers and housewives. 

United Methodist hosts a temporary community based on a shared 
heritage. Congregants form an insular social network that extends 
outside the church. According to Pastor Soon Kook Ahn, about one-
third lives on the same street in Hamden, and many ochers live in the 
same apartment complexes: Ivy Manor, Avalon and Hamden Hill. The 
families mingle at parties and the adults gather for Bible readings. 
Their children often see each other at school, sit in 
the same English as a Second Language (ESL) 
classes and play with each ocher. 

As important as preserving their Korean 
identity is to the adults, it's equally 
important to them that their 
children 
prepare for 
America. But how can so insular a community prepare its children for 
life outside the church? 

The answer is language. Learning English means power, academic 
achievement and high-paying jobs. Pastor Ahn conducts services in 
Korean, but when he questions the restive Sunday school class on 
religion, he speaks English. After Sunday school, many of the children 
study English composition and grammar, forgoing classes in Korean 
In fact, the children devote themselves so wholeheartedly to 
learning English that many forget Korean. One Korean-American, 
Mark, spoke only Korean when he moved from Texas to New Haven 
at the age of five. After three years of ESL at Worthington Hooker 
Elementary School, Mark speaks English fl.uently-:-but comprehends 
little Korean. Many of the young children~ about to enter school 
understand only simple Korean directions. On one Sunday afternoon I 
observed Hedy, a Sunday School teacher, asking a young boy to repeat 
after her in Korean, "Do you know what day it is?" Befuddled, the boy 
could not answer. She turned co another Korean boy and repeated the 
question. He, coo, remained silent. Finally when a little boy repeated 
the line fluently the entire class cheered. 

Why the celebration? Although their parents recognize English as 
an important tool, many bi-cultural children associate Korean with 
maternal warmth, paternal authority, gossip and the church. The 
ability to speak Korean is a gift: it means not only understanding 
parents' private conversations, but also communicating with 
grandparents, aunts, uncles and cousins. 

For children, the choice between Korean and English is not always 
clear. In one Sunday school class, four boys and one girl sac at a small, 
rectangular cable. Unversed in the Bible and Korean, I was nervously 
substituting for their bilingual teacher. Three of the boys had 
arrived from Korea within the past year, while the other boy, 
Mark, sac quietly in the back. The lone girl, Elena, urged 
me to speak only "American" in the classroom. By 
the end of the 4o-minute class, two factions had 
formed, each asserting its respective language. 
I had. instructed the third-grade children to 
follow the 4th Commandment, "Honor thy 
father and thy mother," by drawing cards of 
appreciation on construction paper. Most of 
them drew stick-figure portraits of their 
parents. "I'm drawing Mr. Potato Head!" 
Chung-Bae, a Korean boy shouted. 
Elena ~ked up. "I'm going to call you 
'pig' then." 
Moment of silence &om the other side. 
''I'mpif." 
"Yes! If you call me that." Gulp of air. "If 
you call me something, I call you 
something." 
"I-you are the most," Chung-Bae lifted 
himself &om his seat and swelled his lungs 
with air, "em-bar-rasses!" Another heave of 
breath, "em-bar-rasses!" he shouted, mocking 
her for using English, with its accented 
syllables-which are absent from Korean. 
"Embarrasses is not a word," Elena 
retorted. 

Chung-Bae , 
noticeably 
calmer, 
replied slowly, "So you 
could get state-of-the-
art surgery unavailable 
in her home country. 
n important tool.vnany bi- She can hear well now, 
are a stupid pig." 
cultur 
Translated &om one 
language to the other, with 
these 
seemingly 
incoherent torments 
made perfect sense to 
the 
children. 
Chtmpi, 
or 
"How 
embarrasSing!" carries the connotations of 
babies peeing and parents' scolding. Similarly, 
pig, or t.kji, is common playground parlance 
in Korea, as are the insults wan t.kji and suptr 
wan t.kji, or "king pig" and "super king pig." 

Although acceptance of English isn't 
unanimous, the children have absorbed 
American usage through the popular media. 
Suk-Jae, convinced that the President would 
eventually listen to my tape recording of the 
class, shouted the name of another student's 
love interest, which sounded like "Monica." 
He then read his story in a Korean accent: 
Once there was a snake (I'm going to make 
this ape hear this) named Mark (he's right 
here beside me). He is a harmless grass snake 
and is a goof just like Barney the Dinosaur. 
If you don't know Barney the Dinosaur, 
w.uch Barney, watch Barney the Dinosaur 
and sec how babyish at crv at 5 o'dock. .. 
After splitting the snake in two, Suk-Jae 
announced, "Surgeon General's Warning: this 
document is highly violent and is PG-8. Or 
else it is hazardous to your health." Although 
he used the chtmpi strategy ("see how 
babyish") that Chung-Bae had tried ("em-
bm-.rasses!"), he said it like an American TV 
announcer. 
Suk-Jae's insistence that Bill Clinton 
would overhear the tapes resounds with the 
political embarrassment he hopes to exact on 
his classmate. Despite an imperfect 
pronunc1auon, 
Suk-Jae 
established 
dominance in the classroom over his more 
Buent friend. He had absorbed material &om 
his main channel to the external world, 
television, and incorporated the tropes for his 
schoolwork. 

Eu-Jong, a winsome four-year-old, is 
already taking advantage of American 
opportunities. She was born in Korea, deaf in 
one ear. Until recently, Eu-Jong's disability 
had prevented her &om learning to talk at all. 
Her family moved to the United States so she 
Korean but has some catching 
up to do. She speaks no 
aternal Korean, and babbles in 
her 
own 
incomprehensible 
English. 

Eu-Jong's mother, for her part, speaks 
only halting English. She realizes, though, 
that her daughter's only shot at success 
depends on learning the language, and refuses 
to talk to her in Korean lest she cause 
confusion. She's taking English classes, but it's 
been an uphill struggle. She worries about 
when to pronounce the plural "s" as "z~ how 
to teach her children to ask for more milk 
and how to ask her fifth-grade daughter, 
"What did you do at school today?" 

With so strong a support network, many 
like Eu-Jong and her peers will live out their 
parents' dreams for them. But those dreams 
will undoubtedly take them away from 
United Methodist and old-world traditions. 
Suk-Jae plans to artend Yale, Chung-Bae 
wants to be an architect, Mark aspires to be 
an engineer and Yung-Min, a shy girl who 
speaks little English, hopes to be a lawyer. In 
the shelter of a close Korean community, 
they're learning to speak American. 

IIIII 
Tht namts of tht uhoolchildrm 
psnuionyms. 


**Title: Drug Court**
**Author: Jessica Winter**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A
s usual, session's starting late, and the people assembled in 
Courtroom C of the city courthouse at 121 Elm Street are 
. 
getting chatty, fidgety, restless. Sheepish-looking teenagers, 
umforml,y tall, black, and hunched beneath their puffy Tommy 
Hilfiger jackets, talk with sheepish-looking lawyers, uniformly white 
and male, their chests puffed out under their double-breasted navy-
blue suits. A young woman in a red sweatshirt, her hair in cornrows, 
sits in the front row of spectator seats, pushing a stroller methodically 
back and forth, staring into space. Another woman-whose Mae West 
strut into the courtoom occasioned one courtgoer to excitedly whisper, 
"Hey, Alyssa's here!" -struts back out again. Alyssa is white, late-
thirtyish, sporting teased bleached-blond hair and a tiny denim skirt 
that she keeps tugging at. She has a nervous habit of shifting her 
weight from one skinny leg to the other, back and forth, teetering on 
her spiked heels; she lasted about three minutes in the courtroom 
before leaving for the bathroom, slurring over her shoulder, "Could 
somebody watch my pocketbook? Don't take the drugs that are in 
there." Her seatmates giggled, and Alyssa laughed too, a high-pitched, 
rattling noise. 

Alyssa's joke catered to her audience: most of the people in the 
spectator seats of Courtroom C are defendants in the Drug Session of 
the New Haven Superior Court. Charged with non-violent, narcotics-
related crimes, clients complete court-ordered drug treatment in lieu of 
prison sentences. After Judge Jorge Sim6n finally takes the bench a 
half-hour past the hearing's 2 PM scheduled starting time, the 
defendants will take turns rising for a brief consultation with the judge. 
Most of these chats with Sim6n amount to genial formalities, as 
friendly and banal as small talk. John, a compact, weatherbeaten man 
in a flatinel shirt and jeans, is called; his turn with the judge is typical. 
"Good afternoon, John. How ya doin'?" 
"Good, sir." 
"Good. You had a negative urine today, good job." 
"Yes, sir." 
"You've put on some weight, you've got some color in your cheeks. 
I'm real proud of you." 
"I'm real proud of mysel£" 

The exchange between judge and defendant would seem 
surprisingly intimate, except for the thirty other defendants watching 
from behind John, a cluster of drug counselors and social workers to 
John's right, and most awkwardly, a ten-foot-long table situated 
between John and the judge's bench. At the table are prosecutors, 
public defenders, court liaisons, bail commissioners and more social 
workers, all listening attentively to the conversation. 

"I want a sense of empathy in the courtrOOm, a sense that everyone 
is working closely together," Judge Sim6n says later, in his chambers. 
He is the sole judge presiding over the New Haven Drug Session; each 
client sees him every other week during the arduous year-long 
treatment program. "I try to foster camaraderie. I make everyone stay 
to listen to all the clients' progress." Perhaps this is why Sim6n is 
chronically late to court: the defendants have a chance to mill around a 
bit, get to know each other outside their required Narcotics 
Anonymous (N.A.) meetings and group therapy sessions. 

Sirn6n is saddled with a difficult task: to play the tough-love father 
to dozens of different people in five-minute increments every two 
weeks. The soft, indulgent smile Sim6n wears while talking to a baby-
faced college freshman ("Basketball season's all done now, right? So you 
can spend some time studying?") is replaced with a mask of suppressed 
ang~r fo;, his next visitor, Manuel, who hobbles to his mark wearing leg 
chams. Manuel had a real unfortunate accident where some bleach 
splashed into his urine sample; we're not sure how," Sim6n tells the 
courtroom, his voice steeped in sarcasm. "So I locked him up." 

Manuel will spend a few weeks in jail for this relapse, and Sim6n has 
also extended the duration of Manuel's treatment by a few months. 
As Sim6n quickly proceeds through these points with Manuel's 
private attorney, the hostility in his voice eases. "So we're going to win 
this thing together, right?" Sim6n asks Manuel, switching to Spanish, 
the offender's first language and his own. "Yes, of course. You have to 
win, because it's your life." Sim6n offers him a big smile; Manuel 
stands silent, nodding. As Manuel and his attorney take their seats, the 
young lawyer huddles down, rubbing his hands together nervously, as 
if implicated in his diem's tra..-1sgression. 

T
he concept of drug courts was the brainchild of Attorney 
General Janet Reno. In cities like New Haven where drug court 
programs have been adopted, defendants can apply to have 
their cases transferred to a single docket dealing exclusively with 
narcotics cases. Under this alternative paradigm of law enforcement, 
rehabilitation is privileged over punishment and viewed as a 
collaborative, even familial effort between judge, prosecutor, defender, 
a battery of social workers and drug counselors, and the defendant. 
Modeled on the pilot drug court program started by Judge Stanley 
Goldstein in Miami, New Haven's court opened in June 1996, the first 
of its kind in Connecticut. It responded to a growing concern that, as a 
means of responding to the state's drug problem, heavy reliance upon 
the criminal justice system was miscalculated. Public defender Jim 
Chase, who represents the majority of drug court defendants, says, "If 
it weren't for this drug court, all of my clients would be going to 
prison. Drugs are the reason why people commit crimes, and nobody 
gets off drugs in jail. With the drug courts, recidivism drops to single 
digits." Of the 65 graduates of the New Haven Drug Session, only five 
have been arrested since on any other charge. 

Without any prompting, Chase will tell you that Goldstein and 
other proponents of alternative sentencing measures for drug crimes 
"aren't knee-jerk liberals." Pat Chaco of Project MORE, the "alternative 
incarceration center" of the New Haven Drug Session and the focal 
point of rehabilitation for drug court clients, also stresses that "the 
drug court program is not easy. It's not soft on crime." 

Chaco, director of substance abuse ueatment at Project MORE, 
continues, "It's very difficult for a client to follow through for one full 
year with treatment. If they apply to drug court just to get out of jail, 
they're not going to make it." Prospective clients are first referred to 
Project MORE by social workers in the p.ublic defender's office. Violent 
Judge jorge Simon dishes out justice, family-style. 
APRIL 16, 1999 

Specialists for the 
Lowest Student, 
Youth & Budget 
Airfares! 
• Eurorail Passes issued 
on the spot! 
• Adventure Tours 
• Hostel Memberships 
• Work Abroad 
Programs 
• Budget 
Accomodations 
• Affordable Gear 
Selections 
• Expert Travel Advice 
Council Travel 
320 Elm Street 
New Haven, CT 06511 
Councilnewhaven @ciee.org 
Call 203-562-5335 or Fax 203-562-0197 


**Title: A New Approach to Drug Courts**
**Author: Jessica Winter**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
celebrate. Or I'd have a Monday off and I'd 
have to celebrate," Elliott tells me. "Then I'd 
go to court, my urine comes back dirty, the 
judge puts me in jail for one night, two 
nightS. I miS! court one time because I'm on 
the run, trying to get $10 for a bag. The judge 
says, 'Next time, you're getting your full 
sentence.' 


"Next time comes around, and I'm dirty. 
And I think, well, they've got me, might as 
well get as high as you can, for as long as you 
can, until they catch you. I told my six-year-
old son that I was going away for a while, and 
I told him to be good, and he said, 'No, you 
be good.' 


"I get to court. I was late, I was high. I 
thought the sheriff would shackle me right 
there. W hen I walked in, the j udge 
interrupted whoever was up there, and said, 
'Good afternoon, Mr. Elliott. Thank you for 
coming to court. Would you please remove 
your hat?' 


"He thanked me," Elliott says, shaking 
his head. "I couldn't believe it. He wasn't 
going to just lock me up and throw away the 
key." Elliott spent two weeks in jail and 45 
days in the Stonington Institute, an inpatient 
detox center, and hasn't used crack since. Last 
month, when Elliott graduated from Drug 
Session, Simon interrupted courtroom 
proceedings for him again. The judge came 
down from the bench and embraced him. 


'I'm like the dad, but only to a certain 
point," explains Simon, who grew up 
in Bridgeport, the son of a Puerto 
Rican mother and a Cuban father, both 
immigrantS. "In some drug courtS, you'll see 
there's no space at all between the judge and 
the client, or there might be just a desk But I 
think a certain amount of formality is fine. 
The client has to realize that he's still in a 
courtroom, you know, that this is a judicial 
relationship. I don't want him thinking. 'Hey, 
it's Tuesday, I'm going to see my buddy 
now."' 


Jim C hase adds, "T he judge is like the 
father, and I'm like the big brother." Chase is 
a recovering alcoholic, a status that has 
granted him the influence of experience upon 
his clientS. "If I'm telling somebody that they 
have to give up their addiction, they have to 
put their toys away, they might say, 'Well, 
what the heck do you know about it?' And I 
can say, 'Well, quite a bit, actually.'" 


A certain organic connection to the 
experiences of drug court clients is a state of 
mind that Chase has access to and Sim6n, it 
seems, does not. Chase, a portly gentleman 
with a greying beard and a predilection for 
colorful suspenders and paisley ties, provides 
a rumpled counterpoint to the tall, athletic 
Simon's sleek professionalism. Simon plays 
well the part of the strict, loving father, but 
he does make curious stumbles here and 
there. He forgetS the name of a not-very-new 
client, and one Tuesday tells three male 
defendantS in a row, "You look good, you've 
put on some weight." The third in this line, a 
large fellow with an impressive beer gut, 
reddens slightly and replies, "Yes, sir, I've got 
to work on that. One thing at a time." Bail 
commissioner Ronje Davis rolls her eyes and 
tells Simon, "You've gotta find something else 
to compliment the man on." 


Sim6n moves right past the gaffe to Cara, 
who is feeling prone to a relapse. "How are 
you doing. Cara?" 


''I'm fine if I stay away from my parentS' 
house. Ifl go there then bad things happen." 


"T hen stay away from your parents' 
house!" 


"My kids are there." 


Simon tells Cara to talk to her social 
worker. Cara seems strongly inclined to son 
out her current dilemma with the judge, but 
Simon repeats that she should talk to her 
social worker. It's another mantra, like 
"You've put on some weight," useful in most 
cases but not invariably so. 


"Other than that, though, things are 
going pretty good?" Sim6n asks, with that 
soft smile. 


Cara hesitates. "Yes, sir," she replies, and 
takes her seat again, her audience with the 
judge having arrived at itS swift conclusion. 


A
lthough the New Haven Drug 
Session sees drug offenses as a health 
problem rather than a criminal 
matter per se, this view is strictly 
circumscribed. The program bars the door to 
dealers, however low-level. The drug court 
also does not allow for reductions in length or 
intensity of treatment for users of marijuana 
or marijuana's popular upstart cousin, "illy," 
pot soaked in formaldehyde. Ask Judge 
Simon what differences come into play in 
treating users of marijuana as opposed to 
physically addictive and crippling drugs like 
heroin, and he !lady replies, "None. There's 
not much difference in the need for some 
structure and support in the lives of people 
who use marijuana as there is with any other 
controlled substance." Chaco agrees, citing 
the familiar maxim about pot being a 
gateway drug. 


This a-drug-is-a-drug stance creates 
strange juxtapositions in the courtroom. 
Devon, the college athlete caught for 
marijuana, has his turn with the judge just 
before Alyssa. Alyssa's urinalysis test came 
back clean; her unsteady gait and slightly 
garbled speech can be attributed to 
withdrawal and methadone maintenance. 
T he judge calls her "sweetie" and tells her she 
looks wonderful. Alyssa smiles coquettishly 
and fiddles with her blouse. When she stands 
up, one observes that her skin is slit up the 
back, perilously high. 


"The most obvious difference between 
different drugs is the physical effectS," Sim6n 
says. "This is especially the case with heroin 
and women. It just devastates them 
physically. A lot of them are prostitutes, 
turning tricks to get enough money for the 
next fix." H e pushes some photographs across 
the table to me; they're mugshots of Sandra, 
who was arrested for solicitation a year ago 
and now has just a few weeks before she 
graduates from d rug session. In the 
photographs sh.,e looks wan, haggard, 
emaciated; her mouth is twisted and angry, 
her eyes dead. In the courtroom one sees a 
different person, a mild-looking woman with 
thick brown hair and a sweet smile. 


Sim6n points at Chase, who is passing 
through the judge's office at the end of 
another long day. "He cries every time he sees 
her," the judge says. "I do, I do," Chase says, 
looking at the photos. Sure enough, tears well 
up in his eyes and he takes off his glasses. 


"See? See?" Sim6n exclaims, touched and 
amused. "These women who earn their living 
the way they do, they feel so badly about 
themselves," Chase explains. "With the drug 
court, you can see the complete 
transformation of another human being. It's 
akin to a born-again experience, a radical 
spiritual change." He takes another look at 
Sandra's mug shots. "It's like seeing your own 
daughter being saved." 


IIIJ 
Mikt Elliott is a psew:Wnym. 
]tssica Winter, a smwr in Trumbull Cofkgt, is 
a former mantlging tditor ofTNJ. 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


**Title: A Cold Warrior accuses Yale University Press of un-American activities. Dead than lie -**
**Author: John Swansburg**
**Page number(s): 21**

T he back of 
Soviet Communism 
had not been broken 
for long before the 
spines of Th( Last 
Diary 
of 
Tsarina 
Akxandra were released 
by the Yale University Press 
(YUP) in 1992. The book was the 
first in the YUP's Annals of 
Communism serie.s, a large-scale 
project dedicated to publishing 
scholarly work using the archives of the 
former Soviet Union. According to series 
editor Jonathan Brent, the purpose of the series "is 
. 
to produce a documentary history of Soviet comm~sm , 
from the 1917 revolution to the demise of the system m 1991. Such . 
a window on the Soviet system was not possible before the draWIDg 
back of the Iron Curtain; the archives scrutinized by the Annals of 
Communism only became available to scholars after the 1991 collapse. 
The archives include documents that run the gamut from red tape to 
red bait. Since the release of Th( lAst Diary, five other volumes have 
been published in the series: Th( Fali of th( Romanovs, Th( UnJrm:wn 
Lmin, Stalin's L(tUrs to Molotov, Tht Surtt World of Ama~can 
Communism, and, most recently, Th( Sovitt World of Amazcan 
Communism. Each volume is 
edited by an American scholar 
and a Russian scholar working in 
collaboration. 


Critics of all political stripes have 
praised the Annals of Communism 
series, acknowledging both the vision 
of Brent and the individual work of the 
authors. Senator Daniel Patrick 
Moynihan (o-NY) writes: 


All of us who care ro ensure thal dlis genera-
cion and furure ones possess an adequale under-
slanding of whal rran.spired .~ 
1917 a.J?d 
1991. .. are in lhe dcbl of Yale Uruverslly Press for llS 
effom and contriburions. 


William F. Buckley, wrote an entire syndicated column 
on the series, calling it "a huge contribution to an understanding 
of the mOst important political phenomenon of the century, the rise 
and f.ill of the communist international movement." (So taken with 
the importance of the series is Buckley that he dosed his article with an 
appeal to his readers for finmcial support of the project: "If.you ~ve 
influence, use it to raise money for the Annals of Commurusm senes 
of the Yale Universtiy Press, Jonathan Brent, Executive Editor, 302 
Temple St., New Haven, Conn. o6520. ") 



**The Annals of Communism: A Powder-Keg of Controversy**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Amidst Buckley's accolades, however, is 
an· astute assessment of the troubles a series 
such as the Annals of Communjsm inevitably 
must face. The world of Soviet studies has 
traditionally been as bipolar as the Cold War 
world itself, but with a battlefield not nearly 
so tepid. The dipoles are, on the left, the 
revisionists, who see the Soviet Union as a 
noble experiment gone tragically wrong, and 
on the right, the anti-communists for whom 
Soviet oppression was the inevitable outcome 
of any experiment with socialism. The 
historical truth, which presumably lies 
somewhere in the middle, is potentially very 
dangerous to both poles. A series such as the 
Annals, therefore, which proposes to publish 
thousands of previously unavailable Soviet 
documents, is a political powder-keg. As 
Buckley observes: 
The left has never liked the idea of disgorg-
ing all the secrets because it has th.e effect of 
eviscerating any trace of idealism in the 
Soviet experiment, at least in the hands of 
its generals. And the right doesn't like it . 
because the firm hand of authoritarian gov-
ernment beckons to a sociery punch-drunk 
with liberalism and suffering now corrup-
tion, crime, inflation and unemployment. 

Jonathan Brent confirms Buckley's 
assessment, noting that the volumes in the 
series are "frequently controversial and subject 
to partisan attack." 

Until recently, the criticism has come 
more often from the left than from the right. 
This is not surprising given the volumes the 
series has published thus far. The Yale Press 
gave the editorship of Lenin's secret 
correspondences to Harvard historian 
Richard Pipes. Pipes, a former national 
security advisor to President Reagan, portrays 
Lenin as consummately evil. According to the 
book's introduction, Lenin's rightful heirs are 
not merely Stalin and Brezhnev, but Hider 
and Saddam Hussein. This is hardly a 
revisionist stance, and crus volume has been 
duly attacked from the left for making Lenin 
into Lucifer. The Secret World of American 
Communism, a similarly hard-line anti-
communist work, has been criticized even by 
non-revisionist scholars. Reviewing the work 
for The New Republic, Arthur Schlesinger, Jr., 
a staunch anti-communist, complains that 
the work comes down too harshly on 
American communists. Once again, it is the 
left that has had occasion to criticize the Annals. 


It comes as a surprise therefore to read 
that "the Soviet studies field has been 
captured by revisionists who dismiss as Cold 
War humbug the notion that the Soviet 
Union was a totalitarian country." Yet this is 
the position of Jacob Heilbrunn, author of an 
October 1998 article in The New Republic. 
The article, entitled "Historical Correctness," 
accuses Jonathan Brent of having "caved" to 
the pressures of revisionist historians. 

Heilbrunn, a Senior Editor at The New 
Republic, ba.seS his claims upon the fact that 
Brent and the Yale Press denied Sdviet scholar . 
Vla~fimir N. Brovkin an editorship after 
solicitin_g a proposal from him. Brovkin 
applied for the editorship of the volumes in 
the series dedicated to the Soviet prison 
system, known as the gulag, a system already 
made inf.unous by the prolific literary works 
of Alexander Solzhenicsyn. Brent approached 
Brovkin in 1997, asking him to submit a 
proposal. Brovkin submitted a seven-page 
prospectus and the proposal was scrutinized 
in the Yale Press's stringent review process. 
The Annals' ~ry 
committee voted nearly 
unanimously against giving the editorship to 
Brovkin, and Brent informed Brovkin in a 
letter this past August that his proposal had 
been denied. 

A committed anti-communist and an 
opponent of revisionist portrayals of the. 
Soviet system, Brovkin was described by 
Heilbrunn as "a brilliant historian." He had 
bee!) suggested to Brent by the venerable 
writer Robert Conquest and by the 
aforementioned Richard Pipes. Brovkin 
worked with Pipes at Harvard, where he 
taught until recendy, when he was denied 
tenu re in what Heilbrunn calls a 
"controversial and dubious decision." Since 
leaving Harvard, Brovkin has been unable to 
find another full-time teaching position; he is 
currently helping to direct a study of Russian 
crime at American University. Prior to his 
stint at Harvard, Brovkin was a member of 
the Government department at Oberlin 
College, where among his proteges was one 
Jacob Heilbrunn. 

After being denied the gulag editorship, 
Brovkin contacted his former student 
Heilbrunn. Brovkin believed (and still insists) 
that he was rejected by Brent because the 
Annals of Communism's board of advisors is 
dominated by revisionist historians who not 
only refuse to publish non-revisionist history 
but also hold a gru"dge against Brovkin for his 
attacks on revisionist historians in the past. 

Through his mouthpiece, Heilbrunn, 
Brovkin claimed that Brent's decision to 
reject him was not based on hls ability as a 
scholar. Rather, say Brovkin and Heilbrunn, 
the rejection was based solely on 
historiographical politics. 

Brovkin and Heilbrunn's accusations are 
unfounded and unsupported, betraying a 
paranoia of a revisionist stranglehold on 
Soviet studies that simply does not exist. As a 
result, Heilbrunn constructs a largely 
spurious account of the events: his building 
blocks are sound-bite quotations, his mortar 
hyperbole. In an article in The Nation 
examining the controversy caused by the 
Heilbrunn article, 
Eric Altermann 
demonstrates that Heilbrunn's argument 
employs willful misreading and deliberate 
deceptiqn. In an attempt to portray the 
reviewers of Brovkin's proposal to the Yale 
Press as apologists for the Soviet regime, 
Heilbrunn cites editorial committee member 
Mark von Hagen, director of Columbia 
University's Harriman Institute for Russian 
and East European Studies. Heilbrunn quotes 
von Hagen as claiming that the gulag 
contained "the kinds of criminals who are 
incarcerated in every viable state." Heilbrunn 
makes von Hagen appear to be a foolish 
Soviet sympathizer who denies the horror of 
the gulag system and its role in Soviet 


--- Page 23 ---

political oppression. In order to paint chis 
portrait of von Hagen, and by extension the 
YUP editorial committee, Heilbrunn has done 
something ~at would make any sixth-grade 
English teacher cringe: separate a "not only" 
from a "but also." Heilbrunn has 
conveniently sliced off the first part of von 
Hagen's sentence: "the camps held not only 
large numbers of f31sely accused citizens and 
political oppositionists .... " Thus von Hagen's 
comment that the wrongfully imprisoned 
were not the only inmates is spun around by 
Heilbrunn to mean that only criminals were 
imprisoned in the gulag. 

Heilbrunn's selective quotation is not the 
only hole in his careered attack against che 
YUP-ic is merely an indicator of his attack's 
lack of depth. Heilbrunn and Brovkin claim 
chac Brent caved into pressure from an 
editorial board controlled by revisionists. This 
claim is simply noc borne ouc by the facts. 
The Annals of Communism series is 
governed by an editorial advisory committee 
comprised of 17 American and 12 Russian 
scholars and archivists. Before a new project 
can be added, a proposal must be presented 
before the American section of the advisory 
comrnitt~e. If the proposal is approved and a 
manuscript produced, it must still survive the 
rigors of University Press peer review. Often 
the Yale Press solicits as many as three co five 
outside readings before making the decision 
co publish. 

Seven members of the American advisory 
committee responded in writing co Brovkin's 
proposal for che gulag volume. Five of the 
responses were negative. Of che two 
remaining responses, one was a mixed review 
and one a positive assessment. Professional 
standards do not allow the YUP to release the 
names of che scholars who considered 
Brovkin's proposal. Brent, however, has 
written that while two of the five negative 
responses were penned by scholars who could 
be categorized as revisionist, the remaining 
three responses came from scholars with "no 
particular political agenda." It is due to the 
responses of these three scholars, Brent says, 
that he chose not to offer the editorship to 
Brovkin. Brent also points out that the same 
advisory committee that denied Brovkin the 
editorship of the gulag volume rejected a 
revisionist's candidacy for a volume on the 
assassination of Leningrad Party leader Sergei 
Kirov. Brovkin cannot make a case for a 
personal bias either: his last book, Th~


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: John Swansburg**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Yale series' widely-applauded efforts to 
reveal the truth about Soviet communism 
has inevitably resulted in an objectivdy anti-
Soviet ~rspecrive, and any trace in that 
series of revisionist apologies for the Soviets 
exist only in the imagination of the patho-
logically suspicious. 


There is a difference between opposing 
revisionist history and becoming so obsessed 
with discrediting it that your scholarly work 
becomes no longer scholarly, no longer 
designed 
to 
elucidate 
history. If 
historiography is lowered into mere diatribe 
against other historical viewpoints, history 
becomes a more political tool. Herein lies the 
irony in Brovkin's dispute with the Yale Press. 


One of the most terrifying powers of the 
totalitarian state is the ability to manipulate 
history for political ends. Brovkin accuses the 
Yale Press of trying to shape history by only 
sponsoring revisionist history, but time and 
again Brovkin has used his own historical 
works to attack his enemies in the academy. Is 
there a conspiracy among academics against 
true history as Brovk.in claims, or is he the 
one to be feared? Brovkin allows his view of 
how history should be told to cloud his 
pursuit of the truth-this is why he did not 
receive the editorship of the gulag volume. 


Jacob Heilbrunn, defending his former 
mentor, is guilty of the same error: allowing 
his personal feelings to interfere with his 
professional writing. Heilbrunn's position as a 
former student of Brovkin's should have 
prevented him from writing the piece on 
Brovk.in's dispute with the Yale University 
Press. Another irony comes to mind: the 
opening of the Soviet archive has led Soviet 
studies into a period of revolution not unlike 
the Russian Revolution, with different 
factions fighting for control of a new era. 


Brovkin and Heilbrunn, in their blind effon 
to tell the truth and fight those who differ in 
opinion, are doing their best to impersonate 
Lenin, at least the Lenin described by 
Richard Pipes. 

IRIJ 
fohn Swansburg, a junior in Saybrook Co/kg~, 
is an associau ~ditor of TN]. 
APRIL 16, 1999 


**Title: The United Stakes of America**
**Author: Ian Blecher**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The United Stakes of America 
Two Yale Profs want to give you $80,000, 
but the check isn't exactly in the mail. 
by lan Blecher 
The Stakeholder Society, Bruce Ackerman and Anne Alstott (Yale University Press, 1999) 
M
ove over, Germany. Move over, 
Japan. It's America's turn to kick 
ass. The Dow Jones just hit 10,000. 
We're breaking records by the hour. The 
NASDAQ is up nearly 20 percent this year. We 
have politicians brave enough to stake their 
careers on those numbers-politicians brave 
enough to throw our Social Security into the 
mix, to make sure America claws its way up 
to 11,000, and then who knows how high? 

A few things have been bothering me, 
though. We keep scoring all these points on 
the Dow. But who are we scoring them 
against? And when do we get to win? 

Let's be serious. Not counting Russia, 
America's wealth is distributed more unevenly 
than any other industrialized country. From 
1973 to 1997, real household income rose 1.6 
percent among the poorest fifth of Americans 
and p percent among the middle fifth. Over 
the same period, reaJ income among the 
richest twentieth rose 56.8 percent. And 
things are getting worse. From 1989 to 1997, 
as the Dow ballooned, real income actually 
dropped 2.4 percent among the poorest and 
0.7 percent for the middle class. The richest 
saw their wealth increase by 20.4 percent. 

Is this the end of American equal 
opportunity? In their new book, Tht 
Staluholdtr Socitty, YaJe professors Bruce 
Ackerman (LAw '67) and Anne Alston (LAW 
'87) hatch a plot to keep the Founders' 
promise of the right to pursue happiness. 
Every citizen, they say, is entitled to an 
s8o,ooo stake in America on his 21st birthday. 
He can spend it however he likes. He can 
snort it in cocaine in a Manhattan high-rise. 
She can blow it on roulette in Vegas. He can 
start a small business. She can pay for college, 
in which case she could claim her stake upon 
matriculation. The government has no say. 
No indentured servitude. No guidelines. 
"Stakes are a marter of right, nor a handout." 
It's time to build the late-capitalist wdfare 
state, Ackerman and Alston write: 

We are rrying to break the hold of the famil-
iar vision of the welfare state in America. In 
this view, modern government has succeed-
ed to the traditional tasks of the church-
tending to the old, the sick, the disabled. 
Like the church, the welfare state is con-
cerned with providing the weak with a 
decem minimum. 

In other words, welfare feeds on our 
nostalgia for gentler times--if feudalism can 
be called gentle. As politicians give in to every 
corporate whim, liberals crusade like Biblical 
prophets to raise the poverty line. It's no 
surprise, then, that anti-welfare arguments 
claiming our present system is outdated have 
met with so much success. 

But Ackerman and Alston don't mind 
marker forces, as long as everyone has an 
equal shot at the market: 

As liberals, we believe that each citizen 
Bru('f' AckPrman Anne ALc;tott 
should be free to shape her outcomes as she 
thinks best. But as activist liberals, we 
emphasize the f.lilure of the capitalist system 
to give each citizen an equal opponuniry to 
exercise this freedom as she goes about the 
task of shaping her life. 

Social programs should attack disparities 
in the market, not dean up after the market 
has done its damage. "Our primary focus is 
on the young and energetic, nor the old and 
vulnerable." The authors have made it their 
mission to excise conservativism from liberal 
movements. Politicians will be able ro gut 
welfare as long as it remains an anachronism 
utterly contingent to the main event, the 
Dow Jones Industrial Average. 

The rich man will probably want to 
know why he has any responsibility to make 
things easier for poor teens. What have 
juvenile delinquents ever done for him? To 
begin with, Ackerman and Alstott say no one 
gets to choose his parents. Unless he puts his 
faith in predestination, the rich man must 
admit that it was only his good fortune to be 
born into great fortune. And even if he was 
not born rich, he was most likely born into 
privileges, like a good education. Bur even if 
he had made himself entirely without his 
parents, Ackerman and Alstott argue that the 
market depends on every American's 
participation: "Nobody makes money simply 
on the basis of his own efforts." The public 
already spends billions to preserve the kind of 
social order necessary for free enterprise. 
THE NEW jOURNAL 


"Without billions of voluntary decisions by 
Americans to respect the rights of property in 
their daily lives, the system would collapse 
overnight. All Americans benefit from this 
cooperative activity-but some much more 
than othe~s." As Americans, we have a 
responsibility to our fellow citizens-and, 
perhaps, on the same grounds, to every 
citizen of the world. But that is a project for 
another book. 

To realize Jefferson's dream of life, liberty 
and the pursuit of happiness for all, we must 
first see John Locke's dream through: life, 
liberty and property. "We propose to 
revitalize a very old republican tradition that 
links property and citizenship." This 
connection, as the authors realize, is a 
dangerous one. In older times, for example, 
women were denied suffrage because they 
couldn't own property. That doesn't mean, 
however, that we should rid ourselves of 
private property altogether. On the contrary, 
we should strengthen the property-citizenship 
link by distributing property more equitably. 

The authors refuse to define the members 
of society by their class status, as Marxists do. 
"It is not one's relationship co the means of 
production that should shape tax status but 
the exte)lt to which liberal society has 
honored its promise of equal opportunity." 
John Q. Public is an American, not a Ford 
worker. Indeed, Ackerman and Alstott cake 
special, if subtle, care not to attribute the 
success of capitalism to the exploitation of 
labor. The capitalist's responsibility to his 
worker comes not from the former's 
dependence on the extraction of surplus value 
but from the latter's "voluntary" support of 
the social order. And although the authors 
don't try to refute Marxist claims about class 
struggle, it's as clear now as it was in the Cold 
War: communism is just plain un-American. 

Individual liberties are well and good. But 
who's going to finance them? Ackerman and 
Alstott suggest a twofold plan to raise the 
money, which they estimate at $255 billion a 
year (Social Security and Medicare, by 
contrast, cost $477 billion ). It won't shock 
you to learn that the wealthy will cover most 
of the cost. The richest 41 percent would pay 
an extra 2 percent income cax, a relatively 
small price to thank the plebeians for not 
revolting. Besides, stakeholders would be 
required to return their stakes when they die. 
In real 1999 dollars, an s8o,ooo stake would 
grow to about $250,ooo over 6o years. But 
APRIL 16, 1999 
the stake is not a government loan. If Tom 
decides to blow his stake on hookers and dies 
broke at 22 of a heroin overdose, his estate 
isn't liable for the stake. But successful 
stakeholders will pass a stake on to their 
children, who will receive $8o,ooo at age 21 
like everyone else. 

Freedom is great, but shouldn't we be 
worried about how this money is going to be 
spent? Ackerman and Alstott do take a few 
precautions. Stakeholders have to graduate 
high school, and no one would get all her 
money at once. Instead, she would receive 
four annual payments of about $2o,ooo, 
enough to cover a year of tuition at most 
private colleges. 

In the end, Ackerman and Alstott's 
society is relatively indifferent to so-called 
stakeblowers. What matters to them is that 
everyone has a stake to blow in the first place. 
A liberal society has only one responsibility: 
to provide equal opportunity to every citizen. 
In this respect, the plan is profoundly anti-
utopian. The idea isn't to improve society so 
much as to help it fulfill its moral 
responsibility to its members. 

Will "moral responsibility" alone inspire 
Americans to undertake such a huge project? 
Ackerman and Alstott think so. Citizens will 
rightly believe themselves entitled to their 
stakes. This is not something we do for other 
people; it's not charity for the poor. It is 
rather something we do for ourselves. "When 
our children or grandchildren come forward 
to claim their st.akes, they are doing it for 
themselves and for America: they are 
recognizing their common citizenship and 
gaining the effective freedom to take their 
own projects of self-definition seriously," 
Ackerman and Alstott say. Again and again 
the authors tell us that the stake means more 
than money. Stakeholders: 

will locate themselves in a much larger 
national project devoted to the proposition 
that all men are created equal. By invoking 
this American ideal in theit own case. they 
link themselves not only to all others in the 
past who have taken steps ro realize this fun-
damental principle but also to all those who 
will do so in the future. 

So, despite its anti-utopian rhetoric, Th~ 
Staluholder Soci~ty can't suppress a certain 
utopian glee. In a chapter enthusiastically 
titled "Profiles in Freedom," Ackerman and 
Alstott spin yarns about future stakeholders. 
There's "Brenda" and "Bill," a working-class 
couple. Bill works construction but has 
trouble finding steady work. Brenda is a 
home health aide, but she'd like to train to be 
a nurse. Lucky for them, they share a 
$16o,ooo stake chat allows Bill to go to 
technical school to become a mechanic. 
There's also "Mike" and "Mary Anne." Mike's 
a Teamster who wants to start his own small 
trucking business. Mary Anne wants to 
pursue her college degree. 

At times, The Stakeholder Soci~ty reads 
like a really boring work of fiction, which 
makes sense, given that the book details an 
imaginary social program (real as it may seem 
to its authors). Ackerman and Alstott chortle 
to themselves about the culture of 
stakeholding. New terms like "stakeblower" 
will come into common parlance, we learn. 
Newspapers will brim with tales of how Jane 
Doe made millions with her stake or how Jim 
Jones lost all his money on a single night. It's 
never quite clear why the authors play up 
these banalities. 

But the biggest unanswered question is 
exactly bow any of this could come about. 
The book's underlying premise seems to be, 
"We live in a democracy. Now let's put our 
money where our mouth is." But real 
problems with American democracy can 
easily prevent a plan like this from ever taking 
shape. When the House passed a campaign 
finance reform package last year, for example, 
Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott 
singlehandedly killed it. What's to stop an 
interested few among the wealthy from 
dismantling any hope of stakebolding? The 
authors hearken back to the New Deal and 
the Gl Bill, two about American projects that 
succeeded. Stakeholding, presumably, is the 
next link. 

It would certainly be nice if all that were 
true. Ackerman and Alstott persuasively 
define American economic success not by the 
Dow Jones Industrial Average buc by equal 
economic opportunity for every citizen. The 
plan is simple and elegant. But for now, we'll 
have to content ourselves with their less-than-
elegant fiction. 

IIIII 
Ian Bkchn; a junior in Davmport College, is a 
managing ~ditor ofTNJ.



**Title: Off the Beaten Path!**
**Author: Julia Kordon**
**Page number(s): 30**

Off the Beaten Path! 
The Marquis de Sod take a beat ing, 
but will t hey keep on seeding? 
by julia Kqrdon 
T
hese recent halcyon days, as I walk from Old Campus to join 
the hourly flood of Yalies flowing across Elm Street co Cross 
Campus, I leave a peaceful world of expensive green sod and 
enter the theater of a small war. The first sign of battle appears as I pass 
through the Porter gace t<? Cross Campus: a long, dusty scar gouged in 
the grass runs the length of che scone walk. Ac che end of che first 
Berkeley wall (a battlefield in itself) the full ravages of the· struggle are 
revealed as Ground Zero comes into view. Two intersecting swaths of 
pitted, bare earth cue through the meager grass of che lower Cross 
Campus lawn, signs of the feet that leave the sanctioned scone paths 
for a tempting shortcut. 

Disturbed by this silent struggle at the heart of Yale's campus, I 
stood ac the corner of Cross Campus one morning to question the 
perhaps unwitting aggressors. Most peop1e, understandably, claimed 
that saving time was the reason for their trespass. Still, the reasoning of 
some stood out. The first person I accosted coming across the scarred 
lawn offered a formal geometric proof, explaining at length how the 
diagonal through the grass was the hypotenuse of the triangle of his 
daily path. The next person I stopped, cutting the corner at an 
intersection of the walks, was less a strategist than a follower, saying he 
did it "because [the grass] was already trampled on." He exhibited a 
disjunction between thought and action that I suspect exisrs in the 
minds of most of the grass oppressors: when asked if he would answer 
some questions about the Cross Campus grass, he told me, "It needs 
some, chat's what you should say!" 

Back on Old Campus, I spoke to a gardener raking the grass co 
find out about defense strategies. According to him, spring '98 was the 
lase time Grounds and Maintenance brought out the artillery-
machines that spray "hydroseed," a high-tech mixture of grass seed and 
fertilizer. They barricaded the seeded lawn, buc "stakes and ropes aren't 
going to keep [the students] from crossing the grass," he said. Since 
then, Yalies' determinacion to find a shorter route and the 
encroachment of the Berkeley renovation upon the grass has caused 
Grounds and Maintenance to give up resistance, at least temporarily. 
"It's a big political thing. It makes us look bad. My boss doesn't want 
to buy seed, and his boss is yelling ac him because of the condition of 
the grass," the gardener volunteered, and then asked to remain 
anonymous, fearing retaliation if it became known that he had 
volunteered this intelligence. His boss, Supervisor of Grounds and 
Maintenance John Kul, claimed that the Berkeley renovation is the 
reason for the neglect of Cross Campus. He admitted that "it's sore of 
been a forgotten area in the past year," but maintained that there are 
plans for a renovation within the next year. 

Roberto Meinrath, deputy director of Yale's Office of Facilities, 
gave me a litcle history of the Grass Wars. Apparently, the destruction 
of Cross Campus lawn is merely ·a single instance in a pattern of 
aggression by Yale students. "When che good Old Campus was in 
good old pretty bad shape, we could keep volleyball and soccer off 
Cross Campus," he told me, saying that these activities and events like 
Spring Fling made traditional attempts co protect the grass completely 
futile. Meinrath seemed resigned to hi~ defeat in the defense of the 
grass, saying "there's no point in continuing to try to fight the never-
ending war of keeping students off the grass." Instead of continuing 
the fight, the Office of Facilities has chosen the strategy of 
appeasement: the upcoming renovations will include two new 
crosswalks roughly approximating the swaths of lawn worn to bare 
earth and a complete replacement of the grass on both the upper and 
lower lawns, an overhaul with an estimated cost of up to $Ioo,ooo. 

I figured chis was a rather large defense budget to use essentially on 
grass, so I decided co investigate just how much time cutting through 
Cross Campus saves. At a moderate pace, using the stone walks to 
travel along two sides of the lawn to the opposite corner took 58 
seconds; walking along the worn diagonal across the grass took 48 
seconds. This is a savings of ten seconds, about the amount of time it 
takes a Yale student to say "lt's okay. I'm caking ic Credit/0/Fail." But 
this doesn't seem like a ten seconds any of the people I spoke with 
really needed, since they all agreed to talk to me. A few calculations 
involving these ten seconds may be illuminating. Spreading the price 
of the renovation over a year, and allowing for one trip, ten seconds 
faster, per day, per Yalie, Yale is valuing its students' time spent walking 
to class at about $40 an hour. If walking across campus were a 40 hour 
a week, 50 week a year job, it would pay on the order of s8o,ooo a 
year. But such spendthrift ways seem common co all institutions with 
more money than they could possibly need. Just look at the U.S. 
Department of Defense-<lo they really need s4oo toilet seats and 
two-billion dollar bombers co fight their own wars? 

IIIJ 
julio Kordon, o freshman in Saybrook College, is o research director for TN). 
30 
THE NEW JouRNAL 



**Title: A DIVISION OF YALE UNIVERSITY**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A DIVISION OF YALE UNIVERSITY 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES 
REPROGRAPHICS 
& IMAGING SERVICES 
155 Whitney Avenue • 432-6560 
' 
FAX: 432-6274 
http://www.yale.edu/ris 


**Title: Store Hours**
**Page number(s): 32**

Store Hours 
Monday thru Friday 
7am-7pm 
Saturday 
9am-Spm 
Sunday 
10am-4pm 
Staples, 84 Whalley Ave., Hew Haven, CT •· 77 3-3353 

