Publication date: October 26, 1969
Volume: three
Issue number: three

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors: Herman Hong, Paul Goldberger
- Business Manager: Steve Thomas
- Art Director: Nicki Kalish
- Production Editor: Nancy Vickers
- Advertising Manager: Robert Kirkman
- Copy Editors: Richard Caples, Stuart Klawans, Craig Slutzker
- Assistant Editors: George Kannar, Charles Draper, Jeffrey Pollock
- Circulation Managers: John Callaway, Tom Davidson
- Contributing Editors: Susan Braudy, David Freeman, Mopsy Strange Kennedy, Lawrence Lasker, Jonathan Lear, Michael Lerner, Leo Ribuflo, Walter Wagoner
- Staff: Peter M. C. Choy, Richard Conniff, Jack Friedman, Edward Landler, Joanne Lawless, William Palmer, Manuel Perez, James Rosenzweig, Barbara Rich


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Fat Bernie Returns - David Freeman
- New Haven's 'journalistic godawful' - James Mann
- Psychopathology of Seminars - Lloyd Etheredge


**Title: Either/Or**
**Author: Jonathan Lear**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

Comment: Fighting the war, fighting the world, fighting the women and saving a church.
Fiction died today, or maybe it was yesterday. No, maybe it was October 15. A novel about a nation opposed to a war it is waging and whose President states he will not be swayed by public opinion because it is not in the public interest, wouldn't even make it at Woolworth's. What English professor would pass a short story about a New Haven peace. convocation that opens to the strains the Yale Marching Band's "March, March on Down the Field," followed closely by "Bulldog, Bulldog, Bow wow wow"? 

"Anyone who doesn't buy a flag ain't a good American." Grey stubble, short, old, worn trench coat, prunified body. OK, he carried flags and even·hawked long yellow and green plastic horns, but at least he had the honesty to admit it was a carnival. 

"If you're such a good American, why don't you give away the flags for free?" 
Wants to impress friends. Light-brown cashmere sweater, matching brogues, cries out male chauvinism every time a hairy hand beats her to the Russian dressing. 

The band strikes up "When the Saints Go Marching In," the speakers' platform begins to fill and ASTOUNDING: everyone on the platform, as if waiting for the 8:50 express, wears the same shade of grey business suit, (except Robert Lifton who dissents with olive green). There are even, count 'em, two Negroes. 

And then, the anathema of every. hard working bureaucrat, a lapse of planning. Glen DeChabert, a black, forces his way to the podium in a last ditch effort to inject some note of reality. He succeeded, even if we didn't hear his words. Mikes shut off, student apparatchiks, armed with some misguided sense of responsibility, tried to strongarm him off the stage, until some question was raised as to who in fact bad the monopoly on bad taste. 

If one were to read Catch 22 today, he would see it only as that mythic longing for the golden past. 

The October 15 Moratorium was the largest national effort to date to end the war. The peace convocation on the Green was the largest anti-war rally in New Haven's history. For the first time, the leaders of the effort to end the war were the official leaders of the Yale and New Haven Community. 

Only two years ago, on the David Susskind Show, Kingman Brewster stated that if he woke up as President of the US at 9:00 tomorrow morning he would not know what to do. Today the New Haven Register has grouped him with other "left wing campus manipulators." Who knows, tomorrow's Register might have his mug shot, along with AI Lowenstein, Richard Lee, Joe Duffy, Ella Grasso, and Stuart Udall, with a banner headline announcing their arrest for conspiracy. 

For the anti-war effort, the Moratorium was a tremendous success. In terms of the Yale community, the most important moment was when the president of the University took a personal stand against the war, joining his fellow faculty members and students in a common effort to restore the faded sense of the university as a moral conscience of a screwed-up nation. 

Either/Or. Perhaps a better title would be Neither/Both. 
Jonathan Lear.


**Title: Win some, lose some**
**Author: (unattributed)**
**Page number(s): 3**

The Dry Cleaners Association of America held its annual convention in Detroit a couple of years ago and two girls from a local modeling school were hired as hostesses. The dirty old cleaning men tried to pick up the girls during their meetings. Upon receiving the offers one of the girls laughed and the other one got mad. Last summer the one who got mad became Miss America. 

Miss America's name is Pam Eldred, and members of the Women's Liberation Front, alas, must mourn, for she appears unwilling to lend her prestige (or even her bra) to the noble cause. But fear not, for Pam is not without her beliefs. 

On the pressing issue of our times, for example: "I've never had any contact with anyone who has taken drugs," says Pam. (Actually the other dry cleaning girl smokes pot, but don't tell.) 

On her parents: They are "great friends. We sit down and talk about something and if I think they have a better point than I do, I listen to them, and if they think I have a better point they agree with me." 

And radical students: "I'm a firm believer in authority," says Pam. "Why should I defy my elders just for the sake of defying them?" 

Ah, yes, the passing scene can often get one down. But should the tale of Miss America prove too much for you, take solace in an item buried way on the inside of the second section of the Times one Tuesday morning a couple of weeks ago. The headline read: "Champi, Harvard Star Last Season, Gives Up Football." This news came after Harvard lost to BU in an upset. I knew Cham pi had played in the game and figured that he must have gotten hurt. But the headline didn't say anything about an injury; it just said be "gave up." 

Gave up? What's going on? A good all-American-boy type athlete does not just "give up." No fortitude, no guts, no perseverance, a case of unamerican activity pure and simple. But wait-maybe there's another angle, maybe he was failing three of his courses, maybe he has to study real hard for his business school exams or something, maybe it's a case of true love with a Radcliffe honey in the picture with whom Cham pi would rather spend his time, maybe he's going to drop out of Harvard to sign up with the Green Berets. 

No, it was simpler. Champi asked himself why he was playing football, decided that he did not know and, in a distinctly unsisphus-like existential moment, decided there was no sense trying any more. 

"I've been thinking about my relation to the game for a long time-several years. I kept asking myself why I was playing. I wasn't doing it for publicity, or for pride, or for the thrill of victory. I wasn't getting those things from it. I can't take the game seriously any more." 
continued on page 14


**Title: Fat Bernie Returns**
**Author: David Freeman**
**Page number(s): 3-4**

Fat Bernie: keeping Gotham's gossip grinding
Information about Fat Bernie, the well-known New York gossip plugger (see The New Journal; October 29, 1967) has dried up at Yale since Contributing Editor David Freeman left the Drama School a year ago. We've located Freeman in New York where he's re-established contact with Bernie. 

The following is his report. 
Coppleman called Fat Bernie at 7:45 Friday morning to complain about the Dustin Hoffman item in Earl Wilson's Thursday column: 
"Gotham's newest rider on a superstar-ship, Dustin (Midnight Cowboy/ The Graduate) Hoffman has refused two major H'wood offers to work in NYC-seems Dusty can't leave his analyst long enough to go to sunland." 

Fat Bernie placed that item with Wilson a week ago, and when it hadn't appeared by Wednesday, he figured it was dead. The call from Coppleman, the analyst in question, and the early hour caught him off balance. 
"You will forgive the hour, Mr. Gersten; however, this is my only free time." 
"It's OK." 
"I am calling in reference to the column of Mr. Earl Wilson in the New York Post of yesterday afternoon." 
"What item?" 
"Regarding Mr. Dustin Hoffman." 
"Oh yeah." 
"Mr. Gersten, I as well as my colleagues consider it highly unethical, not to mention irresponsible, to make public information of such a highly intimate and confidential nature." 
"Why you calling me?" 
"Mr. Wilson tells me you are his agent in such matters. Information about a patient's psychic state is extremely confidential, as well as potentially volatile." 
"You called Wilson?" 
"Yes-" 
"This morning already?" 
"Yes, his anxiety level, Mr. Gersten, is already dangerously high-" Fat Bernie let out a slow whistle and considered Earl Wilson, who never gets up before noon, being awakened at 7:30. "-not to mention an acute distress. I would like to know, Mr. Gersten, how you are privy to such information?" 
"Was he mad?" 
"I think a more accurate description might be acutely distressed." 
"Did he say anything about me?" 
"I don't believe he is aware you were involved in this matter. I learned of your-" 
"Wilson?" 
"No, no. I am referring to Mr. Hoffman. I would not presume to offer a diagnosis of Mr. Wilson's anxiety level without an initial interview at the very least." 
"Yeah, but when you woke him up-Wilson-was he mad? Acutely distressed or anything?" 
"It was difficult to tell. I'm not certain that I did wake him. But more to the point-" 
"If you called him already this morning you woke him. And he was mad." 
"Be that as it may, the point is, I need to know your sources." 
"You mean about Hoffman?" 
"Yes." 
"I don't know. I guess I heard it around." 
"Mr. Gersten, I would like to point out to you that the nature of a doctor-patient relationship is extremely confidential, not to mention delicate." 
"Well, he's gotta learn how to get along with the press if he's gonna be a star." 
"Bandying about half-truths regarding that relationship is dangerous to both patient and doctor." 
"The Press's first obligation is to the truth." 
"And I suspect its second obligation is to sensationalism. We will, however, overlook the entire incident if you can assure me you'll declare a moratorium on news concerning my patient's psychic state. I hope Mr. Hoffman's attornies will be as forgiving." 
"Well news is news, but we don't want to hurt anybody's feelings, so I guess it wouldn't hurt if I check with you for a medical opinion before we run anything on Hoffman. How's that?" 
"Excellent. Now if you'll excuse me, my first patient is due." 
"Who's that?" 
"I beg your pardon?" 
"The first patient?" Fat Bernie reached over to the table next to his bed and groped for his notebook. "I wondered if it was anybody in show business?" 
"Mr. Gersten, my work is extremely confidential." 
"Do you have any other stars for clients?" 
"As a matter of fact several of my patients are from the entertainment world. As you may know, the theatre creates a great many pressures-" 
"You handle Tennessee Williams?" 
"My clients, I mean patients, are primarily performers." 
"What's your first name Doctor?" 
"Alois, however, I fail-" 
"That's A-L-?" 
"A-L-O-I-S." 
"How do you spell your last name?" 
"C-O-P-P-L-E-M-A-N." 
"What about Sammy Davis? You handle him? Zero Mostel? Who else besides Hoffman?" 
"That's none of your business." 
"But if I know, then I can check all the time with you, so we don't have this problem again." 
"Mr. Gersten, I must get back to my work." 
"How much do you charge?" 
"That is confidential information." 
"More than seventy-five dollars an hour? Just say yes or no." 
"Yes. No. My first patient is arriving. Good-bye." 
"Davis or Mostel?" 

Dr. Coppleman hung up and Fat Bernie sank back into bed, smoothing his red, size fifty-six short, Sulka pajamas and waited for an angry call from Wilson. As he dozed he phrased Coppleman items in his mind: 

What famous young actor has his analyst begging the Press to lay off? The Doc sez 'It's rough on my boy, so come on fellas, take it easy.' 
Or, he might kick it .off with the Doctor: 
Dr. Alois Coppleman, the seventy-five-dollars an-hour-plus shrink to the stars (Dustin Hoffman etc.) has asked for a let-up on re-ports of the mental state of one of our town's most famous.

David Freeman, a former Lawrence Langer Fellow in playwrighting at the Drama School, is a Contributing Editor of The New Journal. His writing has been published in New York magazine, and he is currently at work on a novel.



**Yale Symphony Orchestra Concert**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
35 Broadway, New Haven, Conn. 
The Yale Symphony Orchestra 
John Mauceri, Director 
Opening Concert of the 1969-1970 Season· 
Ravel 
Rapsodie Espagnole 
Rodrigo Fantasia para un Gentilhombre 
Gregory Bonenberger, guitar 
winner 1969 Yale Symphony Concerto Competition 
Bizet 
Carmen: Act IV 
Susan Wyner soprano; Richard Anderson, tenor 
Joy Zornig, messo-soprano; Jack Litten, baritone 
Yale Glee Club, Yale Women's Chorus, Baldwin School Chorus 
8:30P.M. Friday, October 24 
Admission Free. Woolsey Hall


**The New Haven Newspapers**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
J 
71 The New Journal I October 26, 1969 
The next day, the Register dutifully 
recited the gory details again. But there 
were a few changes. The ice pick became 
"a small sword," perhaps to add variety to 
the story. And many of the charges were 
mentioned without the appended phrase, 
"police claim." The accusations, in other 
words, were being described as facts-a 
classic case of a newspaper offering its 
own guilty verdict before the case had 
even come to triaL 


On the Hill and in Dixwell, New 
Raven's black community, ministers and 
militants alike, will say without hesitation 
that the New Haven papers do not repre-
sent their views or interests. And in the 
combined newsroom of the two papers, 
one can easily discern a chilly mistrust 
among editors whenever a black, or any 
known advocate of the poor, brings in a 
press release. In the same newsroom, visit-
ing white politicians are welcomed like old 
friends. 


2 
Unity For An 
Honorable Peace 
Examining my schedule one day last 
winter, I noticed that a well-known New 
Haven black leader was scheduled to 
speak at the Yale School of Public Health 
the following afternoon. Mentioning the 
speech to the editor in charge, I asked 
whether he would want a photographer 
there. He didn't. As I walked away, the 
editor called me back. 
"We don't want a public relations job 
about this guy," he told me, flagrantly 
violating the fundamental principle in 
journalism that reporters go to an event 
without preconceptions. "I've seen this 
guy," the editor continued, "and I know 
who he is." 
Barely suppressing my fury, I asked 
who he was. 
"He's a junkie with a big mouth." 


After the ghetto disturbances in August, 
1967, veteran J ournal..C ourier reporter 
Bill Betsch, who has since left the paper, 
went out and interviewed scores of 
people. According to Betsch, their feelings, 
reactions and explanations filled an entire 
reporter's notebook. 
But the newspaper turned aside all sug-
gestions that it might run any probing 
articles about why the disturbances had 
occurred-the kind of articles which so 
many other papers tried to write. Readers 
of the New Haven papers could find no 
serious attempts to explain what hap-
pened; the material of perhaps the most 
skiJied interviewer in town was not used. 
Instead, there was an editorial about the 
courage of the police force. 


One afternoon last January, I received 
word that the Hill Parents' Association 
would be having a press conference the 
following morning. Working for the 
morning Journal-Courier, I was assigned, 
in such cases, to report the substance of 
the morning press conference before it 
occurred-thereby "beating" the afternoon 
papers which would otherwise carry the 
news first. 


I went to see John Barber at HPA and 
persuaded him to give me a copy of the 
statement he would read at the morning 
press conference. That statement, drafted 
by Barber, called upon black people to 
desert Dick Lee in the coming mayoral 
race. It was the first political statement of 
the year from the black community. 


Bringing the statement into the news-
room, I showed it to an editor and went to 
work. In the course of the evening, I 
developed what is known as a "new angle" 
in the story: I called Hank Parker, then 
chairman of the Black Coalition, and was 
surprised to hear Parker say that the Black 
Coalition was thinking of forming its own 
political organization. Parker also said 
gingerly that be might resign from the 
Black Coalition to direct such a group-a 
statement which broadly hinted at his own 
eventual candidacy. 


That night I combined the HP A "dump-
Lee" statement and Parker's comments 
into a rather staid, prosaic article of 
standard length, adding whatever informa-
tion I could find about the role of blacks 
in past New Haven elections. 


After quietly and routinely discussing 
the articles with an editor at least three 
times during the evening, I handed in the 
piece, waited while it was edited, was told 
there were no problems, and left for the 
night without sensing any controversy. 


The next morning, to my amazement, I 
opened up the Journal-Courier city page 
to find two banal wire-service stories 
where my article had been placed. The 
story about blacks and politics did not 
appear in the paper. Two editors, I was 
later told, had suddenly killed the story at 
one o'clock that morning-it was a most un-
usual move, never fully explained to me. 


Those two editors have since been 
promoted. They are now the city editor 
and assistant city editor of the Journal-
Courier. 


New Chief 
Justice A 
Law And 
Order Man 
These incidents serve as an introduc-
tion to the newsroom of the New Haven 
newspapers, with its frequent rigidity, 
mistrust, discouragement of initiative 
and prejudice. 


There is a myth in New Haven about 
the Register and Journal-Courier, as there 
is about many newspapers in this country 
so obsessed with conspiracy. According to 
the myth, the ruling Jackson family 
censors every single page from every re-
porter's typewriter, adding and deleting as 
it wishes until the story represents its own 
interests. 


In fact, the publishers rarely rewrite 
copy; they do not have to. The character 
of the New Haven papers 4s determined 
by an elaborate social system which the 
publishers have helped to foster. That 
social system includes the practices and 
attitudes of reporters and editors, and the 
relationships among them. That character 
is perpetuated by promotions for the 
favored, and by the discouragement and 
eventual alienation or departure of those 
who do not like the paper's character. 


It sounds complicated, but the result is 
simple. More or less, without heavy-
handed censorship, the paper comes to 
look as its publishers wish it to look. 


At the bottom of the news hierarchy 
are the reporters. New Haven reporters are 
the most diverse group of people in the 
building. Some are former copy boys, 
some Yale graduates; some are from 
working-class backgrounds and others 
staunchly middle-class. Since their jobs 
take them out of the building to the streets, 
where they observe social conflict first-
hand, they tend to be less biased, as a 
group, than others on the paper. 


But the reporters are vulnerable to a 
number of temptations, of which by far 
the greatest is the pressure to become a 
crony of the persons or agency one is 
assigned to write about. 


New Haven reporters have done well 
with the Lee administration. At least two 
current administration or party func-
tionaries, Fred Gross and Byrne Stoddard, 
left the New Haven papers to work for 
Lee. On the current Register staff, urban 
affairs reporter Donald Dallas has almost 
never challenged CPI (the anti-poverty 
agency) or the redevelopment agency. 
C harles Hines has been the best press 
agent the police department ever had; 
Marion McDonald has been a close ally of 
the New Haven school bureaucracy, and 
Frank Whalen, an excellent reporter, bas 
in the past year been considered by some 
observers to be a Lee oracle. In that deli-
cate task of obtaining stories and informa-
tion without compromising independence, 
the Register fares very badly. 


There are a number of attractions and 
rewards for the reporters who agree to 
play along with the game. A few of these 
are rather concrete: any Connecticut 
political reporter who is not an outright 
alcoholic can live for weeks on the bottles 
of liquor which flow in from the politicians 
each Christmas. 


But New Haven reporters are seldom 
bought. The system isn't that simple. 
Rather, their independence is slowly 
eroded away in several ways. First, re-
porters get the psychological rewards of 
being insiders who vicariously share power 
through the information they obtain-
even if it is given on a useless off-the-
record basis. Second, the reporters find it 
easier to get their stories and information 
when they are kind in print to their news 
sources. When the Register was easy and 
the JourTUll-Courier a bit rough on Lee 
and Adams last winter, the city began to 
give most of its important releases to the 
Register. It was safer that way. And third, 
in simple human terms, most reporters 
like to get along with all those people, 
including city officials, with whom they 
must converse on a daily basis. 


The city ac;fministration has its sanc-
tions, too. It is sometimes willing to tol-
erate dissent, but only so much. When 
Journal-Courier city hall reporter Howard 
Abramson overstepped that line once last 
winter in a story about the city's dealings 
with Yale, Lee asked Abramson to lunch 
at Mory's and told him sweetly, "I don't 
bear grudges." Perhaps not, but Lee had 
made his anger known, and Abramson 
could hardly help but think twice before 
plunging in next. time. 


Beyond withholding stories from are-
porter and warning him, the city adminis-
tration may on occasion call or write 
editors about articles which it does not 
like. When Register urban affairs reporter 
Don Dallas wrote a rare critical story 
early this year about a city report on 
housing-code enforcement, Adams, the 
development administrator, wrote an 
angry letter to executive editor Leeney. It 
seemed to cool Dallas's temporary fever. 


New Haven police chief James Ahern has 
had more run-ins with the New Haven 
editors than the rest of the Lee administra-
tion. In part, Ahern's problems are due to 
the fact that some of the editors do not 
like his tough advocacy of gun control. 
For vague reasons or fears best left to the 
reader's imagination, at least two editors 
have carried weapons in the newsroom. 
But Ahern also does not hesitate to pick 
up the phone and call the editors when 
stories displease him. In New Haven, there 
simply is no concept of the right of a 
reporter to set down his own observations 
while still retaining freedom of informa-
tion. A reporter who is critical in one 
article is made to feel that he owes a 
kindness next time. 


A final and overwhelming problem for 
New Haven reporters is one of time. 
Because the publishers are not overly 
anxious to do any investigative reporting 
or researched feature articles, they main-
tain their news staffs at just the size 
necessary to publish a daily paper. No one 
reporter can find the freedom to take off 
even one or two days from his daily re-
sponsibilities in order to research a non-
daily story. "I can't spare you," the city 
editor says, and in truth be can't: each 
editor must make do with the staff he is 
given. Consequently, most reporters put 
together a series or other extended articles 
in their spare time while still writing one 
or two daily pieces. 


Here Are 
Remarks Tlrat 
Tire Hippies 
Early last spring, with welfare promising 
to be a major issue in Hartford, I formally 
requested permission to research and write 
a series on welfare in New Haven: on the 
people, the costs and administrative 
problems. "I can't spare you from the 
beat," I was told, and the proposal sat 
through the end of the legislative session. 


In the face of these obstacles, most re-
porters eventually tire of trying to examine 
anything but the daily events. Investigating 
is just too much trouble. Reporters soon 
learn what the New Haven papers will 
tolerate and what they won't. After a few 
unsuccessful attempts, one knows it is 
useless to suggest, say, a broad article 
about ghetto problems in the winter (it 


didn't happen yesterday in a city agency), 
or about the massive defense and weapons 
industry in New Haven (that's inappropri-
ate .... ). 


Some reporters-the married, the middle-
aged, the New Haven natives, the 
not-so-disgruntled-remain at the paper, 
their own interests dulled, continuing to 
file the same daily articles about the same 
daily events or pseudo-events. But a con-
siderable number-the young and mobile, 
the ambitious or the idealistic-leave the 
New Haven papers. At the Journal-Courier 
in particular, where reporters tend to be 
younger and m01;:e independent, the turn-
over rate for reporters is comparable with 
the turnover of bus boys in a Times 
Square hamburger joint. 


3 
Archbishop 
Deplores 
Nation's 
Religious 
Decline 
People who have never worked on a 
newspaper have no idea of the importance 
and influence of editors vis-a-vis reporters. 
A reporter writes the story, it is true; but 
an editor decides whether that story will 
appear on page one or page thirty-six, 
whether it will have a one-column or an 
eight-column headline, whether it will be 
cut to half its original length, or whether 
it will appear in the paper at all. 


Clark Kent had very little going for him 
until he started crashing phone booths-
it was Perry White who could raise 
Caesar's ghost. 


The editors at the New Haven papers-
all of them white-are not the urbane, 
tweedy Columbia Journalism School 
crowd. Many of them, after varying de-· 
grees of high school and college education, 
began with small-town Connecticut news-
papers or with the Register itself in the 
'40's and early '50's, when $80 a week was 
a fantastic salary and $40 not unthinkable. 
They worked their way up, as reporters 
and copyreaders, and at some point or 
other decided to make their career in New 
Haven. 


If reporters talk about principles, reality 
or truth, the editors look on these pre-
occupations as a strange product of the 
affluent sixties. What concerns the editors 
themselves is economic security and their 
position within the Register organization. 
' They are harassed, hard-working men, 
whose salaries sometimes seem inadequate 
for the early-morning or late-night 
work requried. 


There is a trace of anti-intellectualism 
among the editors. Any change is seen as a 
personal affront to Register-Courier edi-
tors who have come to look on the world 
as distasteful but immutable. "I don't 
know what this world is coming to," one 
editor said without amusement last spring. 


Along with the general suspicion 
towards change goes a deep mistrust of 
college students and black leaders. Stu-
dents-especially Yale students, because of 
their presumed social status-are seen as 
just a little bit crazy, and black leaders are 
considered far too demanding. What 
angers the editors most of all is self-
righteousness. The editors have decided 
that life is a grind of eating, sleeping and 
daily routine. Continual appeals to prin-
ciple and morality bother them, and they 
relish signs of hypocrisy among the 
moralists. The "newsmakers" whom they 
seem to admire most are the clever mani-
pulators, Lee and Adams, who-despite 
their designation as "liberals"-have 
learned to get along well with the editors 
in .their joint conception that life is a game 
and not a morality play. 


The problem is, of course, that not 
everyone in New Haven agrees. The news 
today deals constantly with injustice, 
inequality and exploitation, and a news-
paper is expected to evaluate conflicting 
claims about poverty, substandard 
housing, campus problems and discrimina-
tion. New Haven editors are not well 
equipped to cover these subjects. In many 
ways they are out of contact with the 
social problems of the day. 


The editors tend to live in the suburbs, 
away from the turbulence of inner-city 
schools, housing, redevelopment, crime, 
addiction and welfare. The roads which 
dislocated many people in New Haven are 
the ones which carry the editors to work 
from North Haven, Bethany and North 
Guilford. 


But an editor's place of residence does 
not fix his social outlook. Far more 
serious is the editor's failure to examine 
social iUs during working hours. The sad 
truth is that many New Haven editors 
rarely, if ever, have time to get out of the 
newsroom for a first-hand look at the city 
and its problems. Their jobs do not require 
such trips. They can and often must sit in 
the newsroom, day after day, editing copy, 
assigning reporters and writing headlines 
without ever once going out to look at the 
housing, to attend a Yale class or to talk 
with welfare recipients. In covering the 
Harvard strike last spring, I was surprised 
to find Boston editors there on the scene 
for observation: this never happened in 
New Haven. On local New Haven issues, 
too, the editorial writers rarely seemed to 
examine issues on their own. They simply 
read the news gathered by reporters and 
reacted to it. After months of controversy 
last winter, the editorial page discovered 
that the city has a housing problem. A 
group of editors and editorial writers sat 
down with ghetto leaders this summer for 
the first time-years after they should have. 


If the editors have authority, the 
business department has raw power. There 
are continual "requests" from the business 
staff. One former Courier city editor, now 
with the Washington Post, Leroy Arons, 
recalls, "The advertising department was 
in the newsroom every single night, eating 
away at our space. You got the general 
feeling that they dominated the news-
paper. They were an ever-present entity, 
and a powerful one." He remembers being 
asked to do stories on the news pages about 
such vital news events as supermarket 
openings.


**'Half White'**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10 I The New Journal I October 26, 1969 
• 
'Half White' 
Mrs. P•ullne Price, 46, • 
Metro tlomeltlci werker In Lee 
Afttel•, tends her ,... ,.,... 
... •• she tells • newsman 
thet havlnt 40 ,... .... white 
lldn Ia no priltfem. H•H w 
i ldn wee llui'nN •" lit il 
fire five J'MI:'I ..., The akin 
., • dud white m• w•• 
................ ....,. Miit Of 
........... ~~­
hi ............. .-.;. cletheia. 


Gerald Harrington, who has since retired 
from the paper. Arons's successor as city 
editor, Phil Shandler-another young 
Harrington recruit-also left for a Wash-
ington job after a couple of years as city 
editor. "Under Shandler, we used to call 
the paper Ebony," the current city editor 
of the Courier, Bob Granger, told me once 
-the implication being that Shandler was 
too sympathetic to blacks for the paper's 
liking. 

But most Courier and Register editors 
stay with the organization. They have 
settled down in their homes, their children 
are in local schools-a change is a far more 
drastic move for them than for reporters. 
Instead, they learn to get along with the 
publishers and the organization. They 
know not to push too hard or too fast-
small changes will be made if they wait 
long enough. 

4 
The editors feel happy with the status quo 
-just the way, perhaps, that patriarch 
publisher John Day Jackson would have 
wanted them to be. Jackson was a good 
Yalie-<:hairman of the Yale Daily News, 
in fact. After graduation in 1890, he spent 
a year in Europe, a year at Harvard Law 
School, and four years as a newsman in 
New York and Washington. In 1896, 
Jackson came back to New Haven as 
manager of one of the city's many local 
newspapers, the New Haven Register. It 
looked like a nice paper, and Jackson 
wanted to buy it, so he called a well-heeled 
college buddy, Sam York, and the two of 
them purchased the paper. John Day took 
complete control ten years later, and the 
Register has been owned by the Jackson 
family ever since. 

With his New Haven daily, Jackson 
managed to work his way into the 
American pantheon of Horatio Algers. 
Seventy years ago, publishing a newspaper 
did not involve marketing surveys, time-
efficiency studies and smooth corporate 
chess. The publishers, like other business-
men, were tyrants: ruthlessly competitive, 
driven and driving, dogmatic, outspoken 
and penny-pinching. While Adolph Ochs 
at the New York Times was creating his 
legend in pursuit of an unobtainable im-
partiality, up the road in New Haven John 
Day Jackson was creating his own legend 
of unyielding conservatism. He is re-
membered by many in New Haven today 
with a mixture of nostalgia (for his 
individualism and eccentricity) and scorn 
(for his insensitivity to social problems). 

"All his life, he worked harder and longer 
than anyone else in the organization except 
his secretary," recalls one person who 
knew him. 

Jackson purchased one of the city's 
morning newspapers, the Journal-Courier, 
in 1925. While other New Haven papers 
-the Union, the Times. and the Leader-
languished and perished, the Register and 
Journal-Courier survived the Depres-
sion. Jackson was anxious to drive out his 
New Haven competition. According to 
one story still making the rounds in New 
Haven, he would tell advertisers who were 
in financial trouble "not to worry" about 
paying him. Later on, the story goes, after 
the clients were on sound financial footing, 
Jackson would show them the back bills 
and threaten to ask for payment unless 
they confined their advertising to his 
papers. 

Jackson was not fond of Roosevelt and 
the New Deal. Once, in 1935, be success-
fully campaigned in Washington to defeat 
a New Deal measure which would have 
raised estate and inheritance taxes. He 
told Henry Morgenthau and others that 
the tax bill would wipe out large and small 
family businesses. For his role in defeating 
the legislation, Jackson was praised by 
Times columnist Arthur Krock. 

As the years passed, some New Haven 
observers began to wonder whether Jack-
son wanted a family business at all, or 
whether he would try to take the presses 
with him. His sons Dick (Yale '34) and 
Lionel (Yale '37) went right to work for 
father, and waited and waited. They must 
have gotten a bit restless. In 1953, Dick 
(he was then forty-three years old and his 
father eighty-five) merited the momentous 
promotion from "assistant to the publish-
er," his title of the previous fifteen years, 
to the new position of "assistant pub-
lisher." Old man Jackson continued to 
keep his hand in the business for another 
long seven years, until at last, bedridden in 
Grace-New Haven Hospital in late 1 960, 
he finally relinquished control to his sons. 

Five months later, John Day Jackson 
died at age ninety-three. His strong oppo-
sition to estate and inheritance taxes 
became understandable when the Jackson 
estate was valued at $61,207,934. (It 
must have been a "heavy news" week in 
New Haven when this figure was made 
public. The Hartford Times carried the 
story, but the New Haven papers had 
not a word.) 

Those who expected rapid change in the 
New Haven papers after the death of the 
elder Jackson did not know the family. 
The two papers remained antediluvian in 
politics (they were among the few non-
Southern newspapers to endorse Barry 
Goldwater in 1964); Victorian in morals 
(until a couple of years ago, the word 
"rape" was edited to "assault", and the 
Yale Drama School production of ''Tis 
Pity She's A Whore" was once renamed 
"Tis Pity She's Bad"); and niggardly in 
business (the news staff remains non-union, 
salaries are abominable, and morale is 
low). 

The two Jackson sons-who are said to 
feud on occasion-have divided their re-
sponsibilities, with Dick concentrating on 
news and editorials and Lionel on business. 
Many of the key news and editorial 
positions are still held by men recruited 
and trained in the anci~n regime of John 
Day. Today, while even the New York 
Daily News rushes along young college 
and journalism-school graduates, the 
Register organization changes little. The 
executive editor of the two papers since 
1961 has been Robert J. Leeney. a native 
New Haven boy who joined the Register 
as a reporter and drama critic in 1940 
and has been writing the Jackson's right-


**Superheated Plans Of SDS'**
**Author: Mark Rudd**

wing editorials for more than twenty years. 
Second-ranking in the news hierarchy is 
Charles T. "Charlie" McQueeney, who 
graduated from a New Haven high school 
in 1927 and has been with the Register 
ever since. Among Register reporters, 
McQueeney is known for his policeman-
fireman mentality. His car contains a 
police radio, and he sometimes cruises up 
and down New Haven streets at night, 
apparently dreaming of action. 

While Dick and Lionel Jackson have 
carried their father's ideas and some of 
his top aides through the 1960's, the future 
publisher, a third-generation Jackson, bas 
also begun to learn the game of monopoly. 
He is Herrick Jackson, a lanky, amiable 
young man, grandson of John Day Jackson 
and nephew of the current publishers. 
Herrick graduated from Yale in 1962, 
then went on to Columbia Journalism 
School; he served briefly as city ball re-
porter for the Journal-Courier, and also 
apprenticed for two years at the Louisville 
Courier-Journal, where an editor says he 
was not overly ambitious and remained a 
"publisher's relative" employee. 

Around New Haven, Herrick bas lent 
the impression that be would like somehow 
to remove the newspaper's notoriety. He is 
the only Jackson who has conversed on 
occasion with several of the disaffected 
young reporters, or who attends Yale 
seminars with Tom Wicker and others. 
Under Herrick, it is said, the paper will at 
least moderate if not change its editorial 
stances: it may make some of the same 
changes which other newspapers are 
making in the 1960's. But it will be making 
them in the 1980's. 

5 
The opinions and whims of the publishers 
are the basis for most of the Catch-22 
decisions which make the Register and 
Journal-Courier what they are. But despite 
the fact that the papers suffer under the 
same anachronistic administration, they 
are not quite two peas in a pod. In com-
parison with one another, the two papers 
are noticeably different. The Journal-
Courier traditionally has allowed its re-
porters a bit more freedom in their 
writing, and it has often hired the kind of 
writers who like to develop their own style. 
Since these reporters come and depart 
quickly, the small morning paper has an 
anarchic, unpredictable quality to it: it 
usually contains the more interesting re-
porting of the two competing city staffs, 
and also (when it is forced to use a new 
young reporter) has a knack for the 
journalistic godawful. 

At the death of John Day Jackson, a 
Journal-Courier obituary noted, almost 
plaintively, that after the purchase of the 
morning paper in 1925, "The Register 
remained his (Jackson's) chief concern." 
There could be no question of this. Over 
the years, the Register company devoted so 
little financial or promotional effort to the 
Journal-Courier that most observers as-


**The Psychopathology of Seminar Life**
**Author: Lloyd Etheredge**
**Page number(s): 12**

12 I The New J ournall October 26, 1969 
The Psychopathology of 
Seminar Life 
by Lloyd Etheredge 
One of the most unhappy experiences is a 
seminar which never gets off the ground, 
which is felt to be a burden, a drag, by 
all of its members. Neither the students nor 
the professor look forward with excite-
ment or anticipation to its meetings. 

Outside of the seminar, students freely 
voice their frustration. Many professors 
have known the frustration for years and 
have come to expect it. Yet our "dragging 
seminars~' continue in their semi-comatose 
state with students and professor alike 
half-heartedly playing out their roles to the 
end. The diagnosis presented by many 
(e.g. the SDS), that the problem lies only 
with the structure of educational institu-
tions is, it seems to me, naive. 

Outside of seminars, students are active 
and energetic. Yet, as a seminar gets 
underway, they lapse into a state of 
nervousness, inhibition and depression. 
This is motivated behavior, and it is a com-
mon occurrence. What is going on? 

Psychoanalytic theory can, I think, ex-
plain these curious symptoms which plague 
our seminars. To see our seminars as case 
studies in the "psychopathology of every-
day life" is an approach we might wish 
to avoid. But the truth appears to be, as the 
psychoanalyst and educator Lawrence 
Kubie has noted, that "there is an incessant 
interaction between universal but subtly 
masked neurotic mechanisms and the 
educational process, and .. , as a result of 
this interplay, education is blocked and 
distorted. The relationship between the 
two is evidently so close that both must be 
$01ved if either is to be solved." 

That the· mechanisms about which 
Kubie speaks are alive in our seminars 
seems apparent. Part of the painful evi-
dence we all observe-the nervousness, 
depression and inhibition mentioned 
above, for example-suggests that a semmar 
setting does affect aggressive and erotic 
drives in ways that temporarily induce 
neurotic symptoms in students. Since both 
aggressive and erotic drives are intimately 
and powerfully involved in learning, it is 
plausible that the educational process in 
seminars is also less effective than it might 
be. The aggressive requirements in learn-
ing are clear enough: the challenging of 
ideas, the rejection of hypotheses, the 
analysis and breaking down of an argu-
ment into its component parts. And much 
has been written about the importance of 
sexual curiosity as a basis for attraction to 
intellectual activity. Abraham Maslow, a 
psychologist specializing in human motiva-
tion, suggests that we consider the process 
of knowing "at an unconscious level ... 
as an intrusive penetrating-into, as a kind 
of masculine sex-role equivalent." 

Why do the unfortunate inner conflicts 
which help to create the "dragging semi-
nar" appear? What can we do about the 
problem? Two starting points for this 
psychoanalytic investigation suggest th~m­
selves. The first, and probably more bas1c, 
looks primarily at aggressive confticts-
Freud's primal horde model. The second 
looks at eroticism and seduction. 

Lloyd Ethuedge is a second year gradUilte 
student in international relations and a 
teaching assistant in political science. 

Briefly, Freud's primal horde model 
suggests that an authoritarian "father" 
leader in a group inhibits both the aggres-
sive and erotic drives of male "sons." The 
sons resent the authority of the father 
and also feel he owns the women in the 
group. They remain inhibited and inde-
pendent because they are afraid of him. 
They unconsciously wish his death and 
wish to devour him. After they have killed 
and eaten him, they transfer libido to one 
another, forming a "community" and 
feeling united by unconscious bonds of 
guilt for their deed, for they also loved the 
father. 

How does behavior in our seminars 
reflect the dynamics of the primal horde? 
Aggression is inhibited in the seminar since 
its prime focus in the here-and-now situa-
tion would be the feared authoritarian 
father (professor). It can be turned back 
against the self or suppressed, thus yield-
ing depression. It can be expressed in 
silent protest and hostility by refusing to 
do "assigned" reading, producing the pain-
ful but humorous scene we are all familiar 
with: 

Professor (hopefully): "What did you 
think of the reading?" 
Students: Oong, nervous silence; stu-
dents, eyes downcast, each hoping some-
one has done the reading.) 

The failure of many students to 
prepare for seminar discussions, although 
possibly harmful academically in the 
tong-run, may be a way of asserting inde-
pendence against professors (parent 
surrogates) and actually aid personal 
growth. 

Nervous aggression may also be seen in 
seminars in a disguised form of displaced 
hostility to authors under discussion, the 
curious put-downs that sometimes appear 
(another student serving as "stand-in" for 
the professor), or the extended and tan-
gential comments of individuals seeki":g to 
reduce.anxiety. Other defense mechan1sms 
may be employed: withdrawal ("cutting 
class") or identification with the professor 
(e.g. a student who is speaking to the 
group or even to another student will, 
when he finishes his point, look nervously 
or hopefully to the professor instead of 
toward his fellow students). The deep fear 
of being "wrong" in a seminar appears as 
a fear on the part of the student of sym-
bolic castration by the professor. 

I do not mean to suggest that cutting 
class, hostility to authors, not doing 
assigned reading and looking for the pro-
fessor's reaction are necessarily neurotic 
symptoms. These can also be rational 
reactions or expressions of genuine needs. 
But in the present state of our seminars 
even these actions are done nervously 
and often appear to be symptomatic. Not 
until the problem of authority and its 
associated fears are worked through, 
Freud's model suggests, can students be 
free to be erotically involved in their learn-
ing in acquiring the knowledge previously 
felt to be "owned" by the professor. Nor, 
until students feel the security of a com-
munity, can they relax and feel completely 
free to express confusions, advance new 
ideas, and develop their thinking. 



**The Strength of Passions**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The strength of passions from the primal 
horde which are stirred up in a particular 
seminar may vary with such factors as 
the age, rank or personality of the teacher. 
What logic makes it apply even in groups 
with relatively accepting, non-authori-
tarian teachers? The most important 
answer for psychoanalytic theory is that 
each new group situation involving 
authority figures inevitably stirs up ghosts 
of ancient childhood conflicts with parents. 
Like the ghosts of the Odyssey who arose 
and walked the earth when they tasted 
blood, the ghosts of parents, remembered 
from childhood, rise up and stand behind 
the chair of each new authority figure. 

There are many obvious ways in which 
professors cause themselves to be seen as 
authority figures. They act as gatekeepers 
for their discipline, organizing and ration-
ing knowledge and reading in weekly, 
prescribed doses. They determine what 
work is to be done to receive rewards from 
the university. They hold positions of 
status in the university and possibly 
in their field. 

But, even in more subtle ways, any 
teacher will often communicate that he is 
in charge. Often from habit, he takes the 
role of conferring legitimacy on speakers 
through acknowledging their raised 
hands. He dresses more formally than his 
students. By giving or withholding com-
ments he gives cues to his students about 
what remarks or behavior will be ap-
propriate. He usually sits at the head of 
the seminar table or at the front of the 
room, sometimes a bit removed from other 
seminar members. In this manner he may 
subtly create a self-fulfilling prophecy, 
acting as a father to his students and 
unconsciously adopting an approach 
similar to that of his own parents towards 
himself. 

~tudents, however, cannot be seen as 
unresponsible for perpetuating the prob-
lems of the primal horde in the seminar. 
They often sit so as to maneuver the pro-
fessor into the chair at the front of the 
room. They acceed to the professor's 
gatekeeping functions both as regards the 
subject matter and in controlling the 
seminar discussion itself. They think of the 
seminar as "the professor's" and if he 
fails to appear for a seminar meeting, they 
leave. Their ways of dealing with conflicts 
of power are partly circuitous and indirect: 
they try to "kill off" the formal and sepa-
rate authority of the university and 
incorporate professors and administrators 
into a "community;" they make evaluative 
comments on a "professor's" seminar to 
one another in private rather than face-
to-face with the professor while it is drag-
ging along. I have favored these efforts 
and have been a part of some of them in 
the past. But we are still avoiding the next 
step: openly exploring these issues as they 
continually manifest themselves, and 
inhibit, everyday life in the seminar. 

In examining our seminars we need not 
remain within the confines of the primal 
horde model. Drawing on the work of 
more recent analysts, and focusing on the 
erotic nature of learning and teaching, 
we might use the analogy of the teacher as 
a mother to stimulate new insight. The 
importance of women as authority figures 
in the home and in the early years of 
school suggests this train of thought might 
be a valuable supplement to the primal 
borde model. 

Using this analogy, depression in semi-
nars, as in Melanie Klein's work with 
children, might be diagnosed as arising 
from insufficient affection or nourishment, 
and the solution would be to provide 
the equivalent-in this case more of the 
professor's own feelings and exciting ideas · 
or perspectives, an approach which is often 
adopted. Lack of student commitment 
would be partly explained by erratic or 
insufficient involvement, eroticization and 
seductiveness by the professor (cf. the 
mothers in Keniston's The Uncommitted). 
It would also be partly explained if stu-
dents are embarrassed to be erotically 
involved in their subject matter. Since 
professors are usually male, inhibitions 
would also result as defenses against 
homosexual impulses (and associated 
latent fears of castration) stirred up by the 
professor's eroticization of the subject 
matter. 

The two psychoanalytic approaches to 
seminar life I have worked with probably 
are more useful for understanding the 
reactions of men than those of women. 
The psychoanalytic theories dealing with 
women are complex, and it would take 
another essay of equal or greater length to 
attempt to apply them. A full treatment 
would at least include the basic psycho-
analytic themes of the Electra complex, 
of feminine masochism and passivity and 
of narcissism. Also considered should be 
such intellectual and cognitive differences 
between the sexes as women's lesser 
capacity for abstraction and abstract 
reasoning and female perceptions of 
reality which include a lower awareness 
of conflict. What are the implications? 
Perhaps one is that women feel they will 
be better liked by the professor and other 
males if they remain passive and silent, 
forming a kind of "ladies auxiliary" and 
letting the men carry the discussion. 

My purpose in writing this essay, 
however, is not to convince other people 
to see our seminars as primal hordes, 
(although certainly they have looked like 
them in the past) or to see teachers as 
mothers or fathers, or both. My purpose is 
the opposite, in a very basic sense. The 
elements which realistically define our 
association and interactions with each 
other-voluntary choice, many shared goals 
and values, rules and procedures derived 
(more or Jess) by reason and discussion, 
the interdependencies of teaching and 
learning-are different from those which 
define the primal horde or the relations of 
families. The fact that Freud's model is 
applicable to how we have often behaved 
in the past in seminars is comically-and 
tragically-absurd. 

If a psychoanalytic perspective can help 
us to turn on the lights and dispel some 
ghosts, then we now have the possibility of 
seeing each other anew, unencumbered 
by conflicts from ·the past. We have the 
possibility of working together in our 
seminars to create a new and a better 
reality. Along this path, of course, lie the 
risks of greater openness and honesty, the 
uncertainties of questioning old patterns 
and habits. A number of realistic problems 
of emotional perspective must be grappled 
with by both professors and students. A 
professor may feel a responsibility to his 
discipline, to his students or (especially) 
to himself for organizing his treatment of 
the subject matter in a particular way. 
He may feel secure enough in his ability 
to work with groups, or trusting enough 
of the possibilities for group development, 
to allow a seminar to develop which may 
take on a life of its own and cooperatively 
set a course which might be different from 
that which he alone would select. He may 
not feel comfortable with informality. 
He may not believe that the "dragging 
seminar" is a barrier to important learning 
for his students. 

A student, too, faces conflicts in devel-
oping his approach to learning. He may 
admire his professor and believe that his 
greater experience makes dependence on 
him the recommended state of affairs. He 
may not know what he really wants or 
how he learns best. He may feel that other 
members of the seminar will not support 
initiatives on his part to examine and to 
restructure the functioning of the group. 
Graduate students, in particular, may fear 
to alienate those members of the faculty 
whose judgments and recommendations 
are important for their careers. 

These problems of emotional perspec-
tive are difficult to face and difficult to 
resolve. While many teachers, removed 
from their authoritarian and gatekeeper 
roles in experimental settings, find that 
their chief previous function bas been to 
inhibit a rather violent curiosity, many 
more teachers and students may simply 
prefer to play out their roles in traditional 
ways wbich are not, after all, complete 
failures. 

But if we can see each other anew, and 
if we do want something better, then the 
answer is to affirm our interdependence 
through action. In the past, students and 
professors have played out their roles in a 
mutual conspiracy in silence, either im-
potent to create an exciting seminar or 
stumbling onto the right formula almost 
by chance. The way to a new and a better 
reality involves a creative act in each of 
our seminars fed by the exploration and 
self-aware evaluation of the learning 
strategies best suited to the needs of group 
members and to the subject matter. It 
involves the building and testing of mutual 
trust and good-will. It involves a flair for 
adventure. We are in charge here; the 
quality of seminar life is ours to control.


**Journalistic Godawful**
**Page number(s): 14**

Journalistic godawful 
continued from page 11 
and getting news becomes even more 
difficult when Courier reporters write 
critically of the city administration. In late 
'68 and early '69, nearly all major state-
ments from Lee and Adams went to the 
Register, which seemed a bit more con-
trollable. 

Third and most important, the Courier 
and the Register had vastly different hiring 
policies. Development administrator 
Adams, next to Lee, the city's most ex-
perienced media-manipulator, once wryly 
noted, "The Journal-Courier has a wide 
range of people and ideas. The Register 
ranges from cautious to very cautious." 
Tightly controlled by the Jacksons, Leeny 
and McQueeny, the Register makes sure 
its reporters will nor rock the boat. Once 
promoted to one urban beat, they are left 
there for years at a time without rotation. 
Hence, they are very susceptible to the 
lure of developing compromising friend-
ships with the people and agencies they 
are supposed to cover. 

The hiring tradition goes back to the 
late '50's and early '60's, when managing 
editor Gerald Harrington hired journal-
ism-school graduates Arons and Shandler 
and other novices who turned out to be 
excellent reporters. (One of the reporters 
who worked under Harrington, Bill 
Guthrie, is now the Courier sports editor.) 
In recent years, the aggressive hiring was 
taken over by city editor Don Sharpe and 
(managing editor) Wallace. Sharpe, a 
quick, decisive, talented editor who some-
times shielded his reporters from the 
Jacksonian whimsy, managed to find or 
develop some excellent journalists: Bill 
Betsch, who dropped out of Yale to work 
full time under Sharpe, became the city's 
most pervasive questioner (it was Betsch's 
superb five-part series on Yale's property 
holdings, in September 1968, which trig-
gered the tax-exemption controversy); 
Bob Landers and Dyck Andrus, each hired 
by Sharpe after an Ivy League education 
and an unhappy stint in Vietnam, became 
the city's most readable and sardonic 
journalists. Landers in particular became 
a modern version of H. L. Mencken, 
tirelessly pursuing human folly in all 
corners of New Haven. 

Sometimes the differences between the 
two newspapers were embarrassingly 
noticeable. Last spring, Landers used his 
sources to write a number of articles about 
the various candidates who were being 
considered for the post of school super-
intendent. Tired of Landers's barbs, the 
New Haven Board of Education leaked 
its selection, Gerald Barbariesi, to the 
Register one afternoon. For the morning-
after story, under the headline "School-
Political Carnival," Landers skillfully put 
together a brilliant account showing how 
the mayor-who, as Landers phrased it, 
"shuns overt participation" in educational 
decisions-had manipulated the selection 
and the voting. At one point, Landers 
revealed, Lee had simply failed to appear 
at a cocktail party at which he was sup-
posed to meet an aspirant flown in from 
Illinois for the occasion. 

It was the best article to appear all 
spring. But the Register education reporter, 
Marion McDonald, a friend of the educa-
tion bureaucracy whose saccharine 
articles and Sunday column more often 
recall joy of milk and cookies than the 
problems of inner-city education, was 
greatly upset by Landers' article. She 
felt it was "improper" to report such . 
information. 

Unfortunately, however, the Courier 
was never quite so detached from its big 
sister as its maverick young reporters 
wanted to believe. Wages were still low, 
the staff was still too small to allow any 
time for work beyond the daily routine, 
the editorials were still unreal and one or 
two editors in just the wrong places were 
absurdly biased. Although hiring young 
reporters, the Courier lost them to larger 
newspapers or magazines. As the good-bye 
parties came ever faster, Sharpe, who had 
been upset with the long late hours and 
the constant turnover, last June accepted a 
position as editor of the Register Sunday 
magazine. The new city editor, Bob 
Granger, who bad been for years the sub-
urban editor of the Courier, was regarded 
as an unimaginative organization mao and 
a political superhawk. The next few 
months will probably determine whether 
the Courier can hold its· young reporters 
and its flashes of imaginative writing, or 
whether it will revert once again to the 
godawful. 

Local journalism is dying while local 
newspapers thrive. The power to report 
and interpret what happens in this country 
is being increasingly assumed by an 
oligopoly of national media: AP and UPI; 
· the New York Times, the Washington 
Post and their news services; Time and 
Newsweek, Life and Look; CBS and NBC. 
With elaborate expense accounts, their 
reporters move from airport to airport, 
nobly and desperately trying to say "what 
Woodstock means" in time for the six-
thirty news, the morning deadline or the 
weekly cover story. With few exceptions, 
their styles are as varied as the airports 
through which they pass. They are 
fashionably just-liberal, pensive but non-
committal, never too subjective or too 
passionate for their publications and net-
works. It is partially by contrast to them 
that Norman Mailer has seemed such an 
heroic journalist. 

NBC News recently said that because 
of the emerging national media, America 
had "discovered itself" for the first time 
in the 1960's. If that is so, the discovery 
was stunningly superficial. For while 
Washington committee hearings, Presi-
dential election campaigns, Woodstock, 
Chicago and the Moratorium are national 
events to be analyzed by national media, 
still, much which is important today-the 
delicate interaction of workers, blacks, 
suburbanites and students in each town 
and city-is too complicated and too 
localized for the national media to under-
stand. in a one- or two-day onslaught. Yet 
the local newspapers, defying change, 
discouraging and losing staff, have failed 
dismally to give perspective within their 
own bailiwicks. Consequently, to most 
ordinary people, "the news," meaning the 
national news, seems oddly distant and 
unreal, unlike anything which the local 
papers say is happening nearby. 

The failure of the New Haven papers is 
especially unfortunate, because everyone 
from Robert Dahl to Dick Lee and Ed 
Logue to AIM has looked on New Haven 
as the "urban microcosm," the small city 
which can easily be studied and which 
ought to be manageable. The Register 
and the Journal-Courier certainly do not 
Jack matters to ponder: for example, New 
Raven's increasing disillusionment with 
redevelopment and the anti-poverty pro-
gram; the increasingly different ways of 
life of the deserted city and the burgeoning 
suburbs; the faltering attempts of ana-
tional university and its students to define 
themselves locally. Instead of exploring 
such problems the papers have confined 
themselves to the routine and the familiar. 

Register columnist Frank Whalen wrote 
despairingly of the glib and facile inter-
pretations of New Haven by the national 
media after the 1967 disturbances: one 
might sympathize, had not the Register, by 
deciding not to ask questions of New 
Haven, forfeited its own chance. 

Unlike the local stores and industries 
which are also swept away in the process 
of nationalization, the local newspapers 
will not die out. They remain extremely 
profitable, because local advertising pours 
in, and because the television-watchers 
and the Times-readers will still, for a dime, 
buy the publication which gives them the 
movie schedules and the meeting times. 
They do not look to the local newspaper 
for understanding, and the local news-
paper does not care: to a newspaper which 
has already monopolized the local market, 
in-depth reporting and investigating work 
are at be~t a luxury and at worst a liability 
which might anger and lose readership. 

Local papers like the Register and the 
Journal-Courier have abdicated, and in 
doing so, they have become, in Cleaver's 
words, a part of the problem.


**Win Some, Lose Some**
**Author: George Kannar**

Win some, lose some 
continued from page 2 
Some reporter asked Cham pi why he 
didn't finish the season. Sure, you dropped 
a game to BU, but so what, everybody has 
a bad day (and Cham pi had had an 
extremely good one-or good 42 seconds 
worth of one-not too long ago). But 
Chart;J.pi said he would rather quit now 
than hurt the team by not caring, by "just 
going through the motions." 

"I just can't get myself psyched up 
for football any more," was the clincher. 
Marvel of marvels, wonder of wonders, 
ineffable joy of ineffable joys. We had won 
a small one. And they had lost. Champi, 
a senior, had caught it, whatever it is that 
is going around, whatever it is that is 
stopping people dead in their tracks, what-
ever it is that is turning them off to all the 
things they used to care about. And making 
them start to think about it all instead. 

So maybe there is a little hope after all. 
We lose a few-let the inspiring words of 
Miss America stand as a constant reminder 
of that-but little by little, here and there, 
we're winning a couple, too. Melvin 
Laird's son John participated in the 
October 15 Moratorium in Eau Claire, 
Wisconsin. And Frank Champi quit foot-
ball because it didn't make sense any more. 

It's too early to tell for sure yet, but 
maybe all we need is a couple more 
rebuilding years before we're ready to take 
them on again with more than a wobbly 
pass and a futile, muttered prayer.


**Blues**
**Author: Helen Robinson**

Blues 
For the most part, coeducation bas been 
good to us all. The boys are happy (or at 
least less unhappy), and the girls are pretty 
much on top of the world. That is, from 
Monday through Friday. But come the 
weekend .... 

I passed one small coterie of freshman 
women the other Friday afternoon at 
Phelps Gate, where freshman males used 
to gather to inspect the weekend's crop of 
women as they arrived from far and wide. 
The girls were sitting cross-legged on the 
grass, suspiciously eyeing weekend 
arrivals. It was easy to tell the difference: 
the Yale girls were clad in jeans and 
workshirts, the new arrivals in suits or 
dresses and "with paint on their faces," as 
one Yale miss put it in horrified tones. 

And it was easy to see bow welcome the 
new women were. The Yale girls looked 
each one over with the kind of cold stare a 
wife reserves for a mistress. Occasionally 
someone would look at the clean, scrubbed 
invaders and remind the others that, "Well, 
at least they won't look like that on 
Sunday." The other girls would laugh, but 
it did little to soothe their genuine 
annoyance at the aliens. They knew that 
weekends for them were not going to be 
like weekends for men; for their first time 
at Yale, they just weren't needed 
any more.


**Resurrection**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

Resurrection 
What happens to old churches when their 
time has come? Abandoned country rail-
road stations become antique shops and old 
banks become white elephants, but 
churches? God may well be dead, but 
somehow one hardly thinks about churches 
themselves dying at all, let alone being 
reincarnated afterwards. They just seem 
too eternally ecclesiastical. 

One church building that, happily, was 
not too set in its original ways to mind 
taking on a new identity is the old Calvary 
Baptist on Chapel Street. That church's 
congregation is moving, and the old 
building has become the new home of the 
Yale Repertory Theatre. 

It is the Yale Repertory's first exclusive 
home after years of sharing the University 
Theatr~ with undergraduates, and the 
restoration job is so good that it was worth 
the wait. The building still looks like a 
church, but the touch of Drama School 
Dean Robert Brustein-and that of theatre 
engineer George Izenour who was in 
charge of the conversion project-is evi-
dent. The front doors of the building are 
bright "Brustein red," and banners hang 
from the outside walls. Inside, an ample 
stage fills the former pulpit area, and 
runways lead into the audience. The 
superb physical facilities were used to their 
utmost in the Repertory Theatre's first 
production of the year, "The Rivals" (a 
play that would be worth seeing for itself 
even if it weren't in a theatre that is worth 
seeing for itself), and the overall effect is 
one of-well, to be honest, the overall effect 
is one of a church beautifully redone as a 
theatre. 

It would all be perfect save for one 
thing. The days are already numbered for 
the Drama School's new pride and joy: 
the old church is one of several buildings 
on the block slated for demolition in 
1971 prior to construction of the Mellon 
Gallery of British Art. Opponents of the 
Gallery have often attacked the plans as 
destroying a lively and interesting New 
Haven block. In fact, most of the block is 
undistinguished and would not be missed. 
Only now, with the c<>mpletion of this 
new and imaginative theatre, does the 
block possess a valuable resource. 

But it looks as though all-knowing 
planners will have their way and the 
church will die anyway, despite its success-
ful new lease on life. Maybe its bricks 
will go to heaven.



At KLH, we believe that music 
often leaves you no choice but to listen. 
david dean smith
Comer of Elm and York
New Yale Paperbounds
Yale University Press
New Haven and London
Labor Law
Labor and the Legal Process
by Harry H. Wellington
" The hallmark of a truly democratic society is its unwillingness 
to give up either majority rule or individual freedom. In the labor 
field this has proved to be a difficult accommodation. It 
continues to demand great understanding and ingenuity of all 
concerned with formulating and effectuating labor policy-
Congress, the Board, the executive, the courts, and the parties." 
-from Chapter Four. 
$3.45
Emerging Countries
Political Order In Changing Societies
by Samuel P. Huntington
Huntington argues that the causes of violence and instability 
in the emerging countries of Asia, Africa. and Latin America 
are to found in the lag of the development of political 
institutions behind social and economic change. He focuses on 
ways of creating new, effective bases of political association 
which will lead to political stability. 
$3.95
Urban Planning
Man-Made America: Chaos or Control?
An Inquiry into Selected Problems of Design in tlfe Urbanized 
Landscape
by Christopher Tunnard and Boris Pushkarev
"Urban expansion, unrestricted and unguided, has become 
the most conspicuous feature of the American landscape .... 
Here it is discussed with technical mastery and a sense of 
trend in the broad perspectives of space, time, ethical and 
aesthetic values."-
From the National Book Award statement. 
$8.95
Poetry
The Collected Poems of James Agee
edited with an Introduction by Robert Fitzgerald
" The esteem of his peers, along with Agee's semisacrificial 
death and his fears of magic in the jungle of mass culture, 
suggests why Agee has become the literary intellectual's 
folk-hero equivalent of James Dean."-The New York Times 
Book Review. Now available for the first time in a paper edition.
American History
Pilgrim Colony
A History of New Plymouth, 1620-1691
by George Langdon, Jr. 
$1.75
"Langdon has undertaken a formidable task, inasmuch as his 
book is not the story of the Pilgrim fathers but the history of 
the colony ... It is balanced, informative, detached, and well 
documented ... " The Journal of American History. 
$1.95
Conservation
Wilderness and the American Mind
by Roderick Nash
Defining "wilderness" as a distinct natural condition and a 
symbolic construct, the author outlines and interprets the 
American attitude toward wild country as it changed over three 
and a half centuries. "This book is a mandatory prelude to any 
modern treatment of conservation problems." 
William 0 . Douglas, Natural History. 
Available at your bookstore




• 
I SOn 
'' 
The Truth and Soul Movie 
.> 
Li nco In Theatre, New Haven 865-2382. At 7:30 & 9:30P.M. A Cinema v Presentation. A Film by Robert Downey. ~ 
