Publication date: February 2007
Volume: 39
Issue number: 4


**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Romy Drucker
- Editor-in-Chief: Adriane Quinlan
- Managing Editors: fonny Dach, Helen Eckinger
- Designer: Anna Zhang
- Business Manager: Nick Handler
- Senior Editors: Mina Kimes, David Zax
- Production Manager: Nicole Allan
- Research Director: Emily Koh
- Circulations and Subscriptions Manager: Lauren Harrison
- Web Designer: Nicholas Moryl
- Staff: Laura Bennett, Tess Dearing, Patrick Hayden, Jordan Jacks, Ben Lasman, Sophia Lear, Veronica Madrigal, Aditi Ramakrishnan, Mitch Reich, Benny Sachs, Ali Seitz, Laura Zax
- Members and Directors: Joshua Civin, Peter B. Cooper, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, David Slifka, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong, John Swansburg
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Emily Bazelon, Anson M. Beard, Jr. Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O'Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
Points of Departure - 
The Critical Angle - 
Naked Ambition - Jordan Jacks
Protection for the Student Body - Veronica Madrigal
The Panic Room - Patrick Hayden
Unfolding a Global Village - Benny Sachs
We Bombed in New Haven - Patrick Hayden
Tomb Raiders - Adriane Quinlan
Motivations of the Speaker - Nick Handler
Bandwidth of Brothers - Mina Kimes
Endnote - 


**Title: THE 2007 FRANKE LECTURES IN THE HUMANITIES**
**Author:  [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 2**

A series of lectures open to the public 
"Music in Context: Early Modernity and 
Enlightenment" 
Whitney Humanities Center 
Yale University, 53 Wall Street 
Thursday, March 1

CHARLES ROSEN, Professor Emeritus, University 
of Chicago, pianist, music theorist, and distinguished 
writer on music 
"Musical Ambition in the Eighteenth Century". 
Auditorium-8 pm 

The Franke Lectures are made possible by the 
generosity of Richard and Barbara Franke, and are 
intended to present important topics in the Humanities 
to a wide and general audience. The 2007 series will 
celebrate music and culture. 

The Franke Lectures are organized in conjunction with 
the Yale College seminar taught by Leon Plantinga.


For information contact Manana Sikic-phone 203 432-
0673 or e-mail manana.sikic@yale.edu


**Title: Naked Ambition**
**Author: Jordan Jacks**
**Page number(s): 14**

Yale students derobe for the sake of art.


**Title: Protection for the Student Body**
**Author: Veronica Madrigal**
**Page number(s): 24**

Navigating Yale's sexual health resources.


**Title: The Panic Room**
**Author: Patrick Hayden**
**Page number(s): 32**

Abandon all hope, ye who enter here.


**Title: Unfolding a Global Village**
**Author: Benny Sachs**
**Page number(s): 34**

A Nativity of Disaster Relief at the 
Divinity School.


**Title: We Bombed in New Haven**
**Page number(s): 37**




**Title: Tomb Raiders**
**Author: Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 42**


**Title: Motivations of the Speaker**
**Author: Nick Handler**

The Personal Essay


**Title: Bandwidth of Brothers**
**Author: Mina Kimes**
**Page number(s): 46**

Endnote



**Cult of Domesticity**
**Author: Laura Zax**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
, 
.. 
Cult of Domesticity 
INSIDE A SLOPPY FRESHMAN BOYS' 
. 
suite, beer bottles and vodka handles 
decorate an otherwise naked win-
dowsill, forming an alcoholic skyline. 
Selections from the Western canon.-
Dante's Inferno, Paradise Lost are 
scattered across a stained futon. Un-
identifiable pieces of clothing slump 
over the arms of two chairs. The 
January light defracts in a fishbowl 
on the table, in which a small, white 
rodent paces. 
"A mouse in the fishbowl." "A 
tadpole in the red party cup." "A 
bunny under the lofted bed." No, 
these aren't preparations for .a frat 
initiation but rather everyday sights 
for those Yalies who risk keeping 
pets on campus. Though there aren't 
many student pet-owners on campus, 
the few are the proud. 

One suite attempted to turn their 
dorm's infestation into an experiment 
in domestication. For several weeks a 
group of freshman boys kept a lone 
mouse, Whiskers of Steel, in a fish-
bowl on the common room table. The 
owners of a smuggled rabbit claim to 
have saved him from a man who had 
4 
plans to turn the tender bunny into 
an entree. Hidden beneath the ivy 
of Berkeley College rest the w·e~ry 
bones of one suite's illegal gerbil, 
Queef. "It's an unmarked grave, but 
I know he's there," said the former 
owner of the deceased. "He's like 
the unknown soldier." Queef even 
spent one spring break hidden in the 
suite's microwave 
also illicit with 
a bong (illicit) and other (illicit) 
goods. "Hiding spots are few and 
far between in these suites," said one 
of Queef's owners. However, if the 
animal is deceased, hiding is no lon-
ger necessary. Now hanging on their 
dorm wall is the head of a stuffed 
buck that, they assert, is "cool by 
undergraduate regulations." 

Yale's unpoetic pet policy leaves 
little room for interpretation. Flip to 
the section on dormitory regulations 
of the Undergraduate Regulations 
Handbook, and read, "Students are 
not permitted to keep pets in their 
dormitory rooms." 

Other schools' 
codes are less totalitarian. At Brown, 
the cool uncle of the Ivy League fam-
ily, two rules are published. One sets 
a maximum limit for the size of an 
aquarium allowed in dormitories (ten 
gallons) and another sets a minimum 
limit for the amount of time the pet 
must be able to survive under water 
(fifteen minutes). Together, the two 
rules cleverly preclude such loopholes 
as a Chihuahua living in a ten gallon 
tUb. At Wesleyan, Yale's cuckoo Con-
necticut cousin, only "uncaged pets" 
are forbidden. This rule, as flexible 
as a contort1orust, seems to permlt 
any number of sins and allow room 
for flagrant animal abuse. Reed Col-
lege, our stoner brother, also permits 
"caged anirnals," and, unsurprisingly, 
the infamously liberal campus ·goes 
a step further by designating certain 
dorms as "cat dorms," in which feli-
neophilic residents agree on one com-
munal cat for each floor. 

There is, however, one exception 
on Yale's otherwise staunch campus: 
Service animals are allowed for blind, 
deaf, and other wise physically dis-
abled students. Currently, this privi-
lege does not extend to animals aiding 
people with emotional ailments. Yet 
since a 2003 ruling by the Depart-
ment of Transportation granted privi-
leges to emotional support animals, it . 
is becoming common to hear of doc-
tors' notes insisting that patients be 
allowed to bring dogs onto airplanes, 
into restaurants, and even to spas. 

There is no telling whether the Uni-
versity might soon find itself forced to 
discriminate between pets that qualify 
as service animals and those that don't. 
Dean of Students Betty Trachtenberg, 
however, doesn't paw and whine over 
the issue. 

"To my knowledge, we 
haven't had discussions about ani-
mals and mental health issues," wrote 
Trachtenberg in an e-mail. 

Though Yalies, by and large, 
don't seem to be substituting pets for 
Prozac, there's no doubt that having a 
pet can be a comfort for stressed uni-
versity students. "College is a really 
self-centered time of life," said one 
rabbit-owner, who suggested that tak-
ing care of a pet allowed her to step 
outside of herself in a therapeutic way. 
"You're outside the network of fam-
ily and only t · 
· g of your classes, 
your grades." 


Pet-owning Yalies won't settle 
for a mere wall hanging or a collage 
of photos of old friends to make their 
home away from home a little homier. 
"The fish tank adds some color," said 
the owner of Turtle, a silver dollar 
THE NEw JouRNAL 


--- Page 5 ---

sized turtle the student caught over 
the summer while fishing with . his 
family. "It makes a more homey at-
mosphere." 

Students cannot be too choosy 
about their pets. Circumventing ani-
mal shelters' strict regulations is the 
first hurdle to clear. "I gave [the adop-
tion agency] my master's office ad-
dress and hoped they wouldn't try to 
contact me," said one former rabbit-
owner. Other students avoid sheltet s 
altogether. Craig's List introduced 
one se·nior to his furry suitemate. The 
only criterion for adoption? "Don't 
kill the fucker." 

With adoption, the travails of il-
licit pet owning have only just begun. 
Duping adoption agencies is only 
practice for eluding the ubiquitous 
staff of Yale's Custodial Services, a 
veritable cadre of informants in-
structed to report any evidence of ani-
mal life 
the sights, sounds, and, of 
course, smells 
they come across on 
their daily rounds of the residential 
colleges. "We were always pretty con-
fident that we were one step ahead of 
the authorities," said one of Queef's 
former owners. Apparently, most pet-
owning malefactors are. "I feel that 
compliance is pretty good, generally," 
said University Fire Marshall Michael 
Johns, whose team is responsible for 
conducting room inspections in all 
twelve residential colleges. 'TPets] are 
not something we come across all that 
frequently." But a pet isn't the worst 
contraband for these secret police to 
find. Said one pet owner, "I would 
rather that the master see our pet than 
that the master see our opium." 

Ah, the life of an undergradu-
ate. 

While the parents of college 
students try to experience it vicari-
ously through their children's infre-
quent phonecalls, the pets of college 
students partake of that glamorized 
lifestyle firsthand (or rather, firstpaw). 
A turtle named Spinach, like his stu-
dent owner, was a familiar commuter 
on Amtrak's regional service route. 
Without so much as taking the PSATs, 
another pet attended Yale classes via 
February 2007 
his owner's tote bag. One rambunc-
tious pet-gone-wild accumulated a 
memoir's worth of college experience 
that would put to shame the novel 
I Am Charlotte Simmons. The little 
darling partook in scientifically valu-
able (though legally questionable) 
physics projects, spent time iJ?- close-
quarters with a stash of hallucino-
genic narcotics, and traveled through 
more than thirty states as a stowaway 
on tour with a rowdy Yale a capella 
group. Guilty by association, these 
dorm pets are not complacent in a life 
of domesticity, but rather complicit 
in a life of petty crime. 
-Laura Zax 


**The Fall of Babkaman**
**Author: Nicole Allan**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

The Fall of Babkaman 
PHIL WEINBERGER USED TO BE 
Babkaman; now he's an unemployed 
baker who misses his customers. Ten 
months ago, Weinberger dosed New 
Haven's Westville 
Kosher ~ Bakery, 
which his family had operated for 
almost three decades. He'd been in 
charge since 1988, and his wife and 
kids had worked in the store. But af-
ter years of baking for a living, even 
a family like the Weinbergers was 
beaten down by the harsh reality of 
the kosher business. 

On top of the usual rent, labor, 
and advertising struggles faced by most 
small businesses, maintaining kosher 
certification adds a new dimension 
to the difficulties of 
· g a busi-
ness. Restaurants, grocery stores, and 
factories hoping to target the kosher 
market must work with a supervising 
rabbi or rabbinical organization. which 
regularly checks the business's facili-
ties to attest that it is adhering to ko-
sher law. National organizations with 
familiar certification symbols include 
the Orthodox Union (a circle with aU 
inside) and 0 K Kosher Certification 
(a circle with a K inside). Weinberger 
worked with OK for a couple of years, 
but ultimately looked to local rabbis 
to supervise his business. 

Supervision centers on the basic 
rules of kosher, or kashrut, in which 
there are three food categories: meat, 
dairy, and pareve. Meat and dairy 
cannot come into contact with one 
another, and though -rabbis have dif-
ferent views on the issue, most rec-
ommend waiting a good six hours 
to drink a glass of milk after eating a 
burger. Pareve items are considered 
neutral they have not come into 
contact with either meat or dairy. 

Most kosher bakeries are pareve, -
avoiding both meat and dairy so that 
their· products can be eaten with any 
meal. The Westville Bakery used to 
sell cheesecake, but cut it from the 
menu to attatn pareve status. 

After Weinberger assumed con-
trol over his parents' bakery, he decid-
ed to up the ante: He wanted to serve 
meat. The rules of kashrut surround-
ing meat are much more complicated 
than those that apply to a pareve bak-
ery. Most kosher restaurants serving 
meat avoid dairy altogether. 

Weinberger, however, dreamed 
up an elaborate system for separat-
ing the different kosher food groups. 
"My place was unique," Weinberger 
explained. "I don't think rd be lying 
if I said there was no other place like 
it in the United States." His system 
involved separate sinks and ovens, 
labeled utensils, two sets of pots and 
pans, and a color-coded kitchen. 

After adding meat to his menu, 
Weinberger was instructed by his 
rabbi to hire a mashgiach, an obser-
vant Jew well-versed in the halakhah, 
or Jewish law, and responsible for su-
pervising the kitchen on a daily basis. 
Mashgiachs are generally hired only 
when meat or fish is involved. Wein-
berger's mashgiach reported to his su-
pervising rabbi to confi.nn that the 
5 


--- Page 6 ---

Westville bakery, now also a deli, was 
adhering to the halakhah. 

These extra regulations were 
costly. Not only did Weinberger have 
to pay a full-time mashgiach in addi-
tion to the rest of his staff, but kosher 
meats, dry goods, and dairy products 
are more expensive than their non-
kosher counterparts. The Westville 
Kosher Bakery was blessed, however, 
with a loyal customer base. Many reg-
ulars were comforted by the family-
run nature of the bakery, and relied on 
it to cater intimate events like wakes. 
"They liked to see a family-oriented 
business," Weinberger remembers. 
Many regular customers became "dear, 
dear friends of the family." 

Praise for Weinbergees babka, 
which he'd recently begun selling 
online at Babkaman.com, wafted 
across Connecticut and into New 
York, eventually reaching the palate 
of the Food Network. In May 2004, 
Al Raker's show Roker on the Road 
set up shop in the Westville Kosher 
. . 
Bakery for a day and filmed the cus-
tomers, the staff, and most impor-
tantly the babka. After the episode 
aired, Babkaman.com was swamped 
with orders. Yet by June of 2006, the 
Westville Kosher Bakery was merely 
an empty room in a strip mall, ghosts 
of the family business fluttering across 
its dusty tile floor. 

When the Stop & Shop bakery 
went kosher, Weinberger flinched. 
When his rent soared, he took a hit. 
But what really put the Westville Ko-
sher Bakery over the edge was kosher 
politics. In 2005, after worki~g with 
many different supervising rabbis and 
national certification agencies, Wein-
berger was collaborating with an or-
ganization of local rabbis. Rabbinical 
upheaval within this organization re-
sulted in a tightening of reins on the 
bakery's actions, as well as a misun-
derstanding regarding the legality of 
the employed mashgiach's citizenship. 

Unhappy with his relationship with 
the organization, Weinberger decided 
to switch to the supervision of a single 
local rabbi. When he. informed his su-
6 
pervising organization of his decision, 
its rabbis told him that they did not 
support the kosher label of the new 
rabbi. They told him that they would 
not endorse this rabbi's certificatiort 
of his business to their congregations. 

After 
an 
embittered 
battle 
over the switch, Weinberger finally 
dropped ·the organization's kosher 
label for the new rabbi's. As prom-
ised, however, the spurned rabbis 
announced the turnover in the West-
ville bakery's kosher certification 
and told their congregants that they 
no longer endorsed the bakery as ad-
equately kosher. From here, business 
went under. 

"Customers who had come in 
three to four times a week no lon-
ger patronized us," Weinberger re-
called, cc so that finished us off." After 
decades of serving the kosher com-
munity, the Weinbergers' customers 
were much more than their liveli-
hood. "How would you feel if you 
were dear friends with someone for 35 
years and you did something, maybe it 
was unordinary," Weinberger referred 
to the bakery's final kosher supervi-
sion switch, "and they refused to talk 
to you?" 

Because Phil . Weinberger de-
voted his life to the tenets of Juda-
ism, the religious consequences of 
his story are particularly sad. He 
doesn't attend synagogue as often 
as he used to. The political nature of 
the bakery's closure cchas given me a 
different perspective on the religion," 
he reflected. "It's affected me. It's af-
fected my kids." 

Unfortunately for New Haven, 
there won't be much babka in Phil 
Weinberger's future 
he has no inter-
est in running a business or working 
in the food industry again. But, as a 
father of four, he's looking for work. 
"It's not easy, especially at my age. But 
we're moving on. We have a positive 
attitude, because you have to." 
-Nicole Allan 


**Maintaining Sanity**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 6**

Maintaining Sanity 
THEY 
CROPPED 
UP 
SUDDENLY, 
plastic sentries holding vigil at the en-
trances of our dining halls. In Com-
mons, two stand within three feet, 
posed in stiff salutation. They beckon 
with the word "Complimentary," and 
boast with the testaments: ccPowerful 
defense against germs." It's so easy to 
slip a hand beneath the nozzle and let 
the automated dispenser douse your 
palm with a stream of sanitizing gel. 

Appearing in the dining halls 
this fall, the Purell stations spawned 
a flurry of speculation that our germ-
obsessed culture had gone too far. The 
hand sanitizer, made of 62o/o ethyl 
alcohol, claimed to kill off 99.99% 
of germs in fifteen seconds. It was 
everywhere, from the check-in desk 
at UHS to the doorway of Durfee's 
Convenience Store. 

As with any break iii tradition, a 
cadre of Yalies skeptical of the change 
has spoken out. "Personally, I do not 
like the look, feel, or smell of the stuff 
or the dispensers," said Josh Viertel, 
co-director of the Yale Sustainable 
Food Project and a self-described or-
ganic health nut. "I do not like to be-
gin or end a meal shared with friends 
by shaking hands with a plastic park-
ing meter that squirts chemicals into 
my hand. It is not convivial." 

Aesthetics are not the only is-



**The Purell Paradox**
**Author: Laura Bennett**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
sues raised by Purell's detractors. 

Viertel and others worry that the gel-
dispensers may kill off susceptible 
bacteria only to leave us with mutant 
streams of more dangerous germs. 
"Pur ell spawns lethal megabacteria," 
declared sophomore Adam Gardner. 
"I feel sorry for anyone who uses the 
Purell machines; they have no idea 
what they are getting themselves 
into." Gardner is not ·alone in his 
distrust. "I call them deadly," said 
Junior Angel Hertselt, a STEP co-
ordinator, who finds the dispensers 
generally unnecessary. "I am of the 
opinion that 'Purell-ing' as an insti-
tutionalized daily habit is no good. 
As a child, I played in the dirt and 
Lord knows what I was exposed to." 
Yale Dining Services allegedly 
purchased the dispensers to help pro-
tect the bodies of the student body 
throughout flu season. According 
to Chuck Bennett, the Manager of 
Purchasing and Facilities, the risks 
of selecting for killer germs must be 
weighed against the risks of illness 
from more prevalent bacteria. "Sure, 
I think disease resistant bacteria are 
a societal issue. But bacteria can be 
easily transmitted by hand contact. 
What's the worse of evils?" asked 
Bennett. "No one requires anyone to 
use the dispensers." 

Purell's supporters don't under-
stand the fuss. "There is no risk with 
alcohol-based sanitizers," said Craig 
Roy, an associate professor of micro-
bial pathogenesis at the Yale School of 
Medicine. "Purell is the same concept 
as a doctor wiping your arm with a 
little alcohol before giving you a shot. 
It kills bacteria and many viruses by 
dehydrating them." Of the dining 
hall sentries, Roy says, "It's a great 
· ·idea to have stations where you can 
apply Purell." 

The Purell dispensers are popular 
with the dining hall workers as a whole. 
"I think it's excellent," a Saybrook din-
ing hall employee said. "Once I saw a 
boy come in here sneezing, nof wash-
ing his hands, eating food. That was so 
nasty, I jutnped on hi1n and told him 
February 2007 
to use some Purell." 

"I think Purell is wonderful and 
vital," said a Commons employee. 
"Every once in a while I just put my 
hands over here and get some." Her 
co-worker sees the popularity among 
students as well. ''I can tell the kids 
. 
think it's great too. They get excited 
when they see it. 
Sometimes 'they 
even miss it when they go in, and 
catch it on the way out." 

Many students do appreciate the 
addition to Yale's dining halls. "I love 
the dispensers," said Charles Gariepy. 
"Not only are they automated, which 
is highly convenient, but they demand 
attention for daily hygiene. That is a 
lesson in itself, I think." Sophomore 
Max Kramer believes: "Hand sanitiz-
ers are a good idea, but that might be 
because I'm paranoid." · 

The Purell website does little 
to alleviate such paranoia. It boasts 
a comprehensive list of "99 Places 
Where Germs are Likely to Lurk," 
including treadmill keypads, crayons, 
in-flight magazines 
and, perhaps 
most perilous, jump rope handles. 
"We also have a Workplace Well-
ness Program that puts Purell on the 
desk of each employee," said Angela 
Watkins, Media Relations manager 
for GOJO Industries, the company 
that created Purell. One elementary 
school even lists Purell among its 
required school supplies for kinder-
garteners. The company is overtaking 
America one squirt at a time, infiltrat-
ing even this Ivy League bastion of 
exclusivity. 

For both sanitation-zealots and 
anti-bacterial skeptics, the question 
remains: Are these fears a product of 
our neuroses, or is there a real risk? 
Viertel relates how an old professor of 
his. used to say "it is and always has 
been the age of bacteria." 

"I am okay with that. I think that 
an attempt to combat it is both futile 
and a sort of hubris," he said. The 
presence [of the dispensers] may be in-
dicative of a growing sense of disease 
in the relationship we have with the 
natural world and with each other." 


The risk inherent in mass sani-
tation . is perhaps more cultural than 
medical, its pervasive influence com-
pelling our society to sterilize every-
thing in sight. "The first time I saw 
the Purell dispensers I thought: totem 
pole," said Melina Shannon-DiPietro, 
co-directo"r of the Yale Sustainable 
Food Project. "But if one takes the 
dispenser as a . totem," she mused, · 
"does this piece of grey plastic and its 
alcohol-scented goo dispense a ritual 
act of unification for our community? 
Before breaking bread together, we'll 
bathe in cleansing goo?" She shud-
• 
dered at the possibility. "It's not really 
a ritual I want as part of my world." 
-Laura Bennett 


**Asocial Climbers**
**Author: Ali Seitz**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

AT I 2 3 POUNDS WITH LONG LEGS, 
long arms, and a short torso, Adrian's 
body is well-designed for his sport. 
"The more like a chimpanzee you're 
built," he says, "the more useful." 

Adrian climbed his first build-
ing in the third grade, on a wall of the 
school gymnasium. When his parents 
weren't looking, Adrian recalls, "I'd 
climb as high as I dared go." Today 
he climbs higher, scaling the gothic 
walls of Yale's residential colleges.· 

Adrian views climbing as a sci-
8 
ence. Before he begins a climb, he 
plots his path. The Art and Architec-
ture building is scalable if you know 
how to use your hands, but it's not 
a ''friendly" building, so he's held off. 
At "friendly" buildings, he can plan 
both his way up and his way down. 

From experience, Adrian knows that 
it's best to have three body parts 
touching the building at any one time. 
Inexperienced climbers · grab what-
ever handholds they can, latching 
onto fragile gargoyle tongues jutting 
out from Yale's gothic buildings_. (Ac-
cording to Adrian, a climber broke 
off part of an unlucky Bingham gar-
goyle.) 

Unlike Adrian, Shawn views 
climbing as anything . but scientific 
(Shawn's name has been changed). 
He often climbs after. a night out. At 
the end of . the night, as the parties 
wind down and the drunken haze 
lifts, he is sure-footed but inhibition 
free. Spurred by "some little worm 
that makes you want to go do cer-
tain things," he heads out for a climb . 
"You don't listen to it when you're to-
tally sober," he says. Alcohol lets him 
revel in the physicality of climbing 
without worrying as much about that 
for:ty-foot drop. "Things are reduced 
to what I need to do to get from one 
place to another," he says. 

The risk involved, Adrian says, 
. depends on where you are climbing, 
and how drunk you are. "I guess I'm 
na"ive, like most climbers," he says. 
"I perceive the real threat as being 
caught." 

While Adrian recognizes the 
physical hazards of climbing, he de-
clares that "to understand and to be-
lieve in risk are two different things." 
He uses a traffic analogy to explain 
his thought process: You can fully 
comprehend the risk of being hit by 
a car, but you'll still cross the street 
if you think you can make it. The 
same type of thinking applies to sex, 
he adds. "If you like doirig something, 
you suppress your fear, because your 
mind is a rational thing." 

At Shawn's high school, it was 
a tradition for students to climb the 
150-foot bell tower and smoke cigars 
at the top. Recalling friends who rap-
pelled down water towers and grain 
elevators at night. Shawn sees the risk 
only in retrospect. There was "just a 
harness and a rope and these 17-year-
old kids tying the knots." 

At Yale, Shawn doesn't use 
ropes, but relies on the complex orna-
mentation of building facades. "With 
all these gothic spires everywhere," 
he says, "if you're an amateur rock 
climber, it looks pretty cool." 

Shawn's Yale climbing career be-
gan at Silliman .. He used a fire exit on . 
an adjacent building to access the roof 
. Shawn's objective is often to get to 
the top of the building, whether that 
means reaching the roof or touching 
the tops of the gothic spires. 

While Shawn sometimes listens 
to music when he climbs, he rarely 
brings other people. He worries that 
they won't be safe. "I've done things 
I know aren't smart," he says, "like 
going along a ledge when I'm feeling 
sick to my stomach." But such risks, 
Shawn says, "put me in touch with 
something that other Yale . activities 
don't give." 

Judith, 
a 
member of Yale 
Climbing, loathes the idea of climb-
ing for the risk factor. After helping 
carry an injured climber off a cliff, 
she understands the danger of climb-
ing and tries to minimize it. "The 
people who do these things climb 
to the top under the cover of night," 
she says, "give the rest ~f us a bad 
name." Judith graduated from Yale 
in 2003, and during her time here 
scaled buildings with Yale Climbing 
as well as helped map low building 
climbing routes on campus that are 
still accessible on the _organization's 
website. "It's all about manageable 
risk," she explains, " ... and there's 
some objective risk left over." 

These bold stories frustrate 
those employed to keep Yale students 
safe. "People who have climbed East 
THE NEw JouRNAL 

--- Page 9 ---

Rock and gotten stranded have had 
charges brought on by the Fire De-
partment," explains Public Informa-
tion Officer Sergeant Steven Woznyk 
of the Yale Police Department, but 
the YPD considers climbers on a 
case-by-case basis 
"like any crimi-
nal investigation.'' 

Associate Dean Betty Trachten-
berg remembers how years ago stu-
dents were allowed to climb a small 
segment of a Durfee wall under care-
ful supervision. "Otherwise, we've de-
clined many requests," she added. "In 
my view climbing is dangerous both 
for the climber and the audience." 

Shawn feels that climbing is saf-
er at Yale than other places: "if you 
get in trouble, you can probably talk 
your way out of it." He rarely climbs 
at home now because he would be 
treated as a trespassing adult outside 
the safety net of Yale's "case-by-case" 
1nvesugauons. 

Adrian doesn't worry about 
trespassing. While playing an Old 
Campus-wide game of Assassins, he 
climbed into his target's Vanderbilt 
window and pelted her with a pair of 
socks to make the kill. The socks were 
never retrieved. He once irritated a 
studying student by climbing in~o his 
room through a bay window. Adrian 
politely asked the way to the stairs. 

Despite his attention to safety 
(and his manners), his practice got 
him into trouble with a dean, who 
accused him of breaking off a piece 
of the college wall. Adrian insisted 
that the fracture was from ice, not 
pressure, and pointed to the nature 
of the break. Calhoun's Master Hol-
loway intervened on Adrian's behalf, 
but said he would not be able to de-
fend hitn again. 

All out of free passes, Adrian 
knows how he will react if he is ever 
caught again. "In the future, that 
means if someone says, 'You there, 
come down,' it means keep going up, 
or run, if you can." 
-Ali Seitz 


**In Loco Parentis**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 9**

SENDING ONE'S BABY OFF TO COL-
LEGE has always been a nerve-wrack-
ing step. Think of everything that 
could go wrong: inedible cafeteria 
food, debilitating homesickness, a 
messy rootrunate. Or worse: freak ice 
storms, meningitis outbreaks, drug 
overdoses. This past summer, a let-
ter from Dean Peter Salovey to Yale 
families added a new and terrifying 
possibility to the already extensive 
list of disaster scenarios: the H5N1 
virus, commonly known as Avian Flu. 
Parents who tensed up while reading 
the letter can exhale: Yale has a com-
prehensive plan. For neurotic parents, 
Yale has a network of offices devoted 
~ 
to thinking up solutions to all the 
gruesome accidents that may befall 
students. 

Yale's Office of Risk Management 
likes to think of itself as the "go-to" 
agency for all calamities. Its title evokes 
images of high-strung politicos perched 
on the edge of their seats, watching for 
the tiniest blip on the radar. In truth, is 
that the office is run by the same kind 
of obsessive organizers who run the 
rest of Yale. 

Located on the fourth floor of 55 
Whitney Avenue, a corporate building 
like any other, the headquarters holds 
a staff of six, directed by Marjorie 
Lemmon. Their task, Lenunon says, 
is simply "to imagine all bad things 
that could happen.'' 

_ The recent· request of a group 
organizing a fashion show was typi-
cal: students sought the assistance 
of Risk Management out of concern 
for the members who would be stag-
ing clunky equipment. According to 
Lemmon, ever-present questions on 
the mind of every employee as he 
works are, "Are we covered if this 
happens? Where are the holes in our 
plan?" 

To brainstorm, employees scour 
the Yale Daily News, searching for 
the potentially dangerous details most 
of us overlook. One employee con-
centrates exclusively on driver safety 
awareness. The Office of Risk Man-
agement is the institutional equivalent 
of a fussy parent telling you to pack 
an umbrella if it looks like rain. If the 
University's duty is to serve in loco 
parentis, the fourth floor of 55 Whit-
ney is a parent-packed PTA meeting. 

Across campus at the Office of 
the Secretary, Deputy Secretary Mar-
tha Highsmith supervises the Uni-
versity's "emergency preparedness 
efforts," overseeing a general all-haz-
ards contingency plan and a specific 
plan to cope with the possibility of 
an outbreak of avian flu. 

About a year ago, Yale was 
compelled to re-evaluate its so-called 
safety net. Reports from Southeast 
Asia of a growing number of human 
cases of HSN1 incited a media mael-
strom. Public health officials were es-
pecially disturbed by the 50% mor-
tality rate of those infected. Graphic 
comparisons to the 1918 Spanish 
Influenza pandemic circulated to 
remind Americans of what was pos-
sible. If avian flu struck, it would af-
fect every conceivable facet of cam-
pus life. 

Highsmith explains that avian 
flu presents challenges that demand 
a tailored plan. "In a pandemic," she 
says, "the resources we're normal-
ly able to call upon can't be used." 
Though the national media has long 
since moved on to other sensational 
9 



**Yale's Pandemic Plan**
**Author: Marie Diamond**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
stories, health experts know the 
threat is still very real, and the Sec-
retary's Office does not underesti-
mate the enemy. Highsmith's team 
went back to the drawing board and, 
referring to recommendations from 
the Center for Disease Control and 
World Health Organization, came up 
with an estimate of how many peo- · 
ple might get sick and how the infec-
tion . rates might affect Yale's ability 
to function. The· plan they devised 
outlines roles for teams in academics, 
technology, and dining services. Each 
department considered the different 
scenarios and came up with its own 
contingency plan. Custodial services, 
for example, devised a strategy that 
would allow for less frequent clean-
ing based on the number of infected 
employees. Though· it seems absurd 
to care about sweeping the stairway 
when people are dying of avian flu, 
every detail is crucial to overall suc-
cess: In this case, maintaining some 
level of regular sanitation might pre-
vent more people from falling ill. 

So what would Yale's Pandemic 
Plan look like in action? No doubt the 
scene would be grim: Avian flu has 
spread across campus, and everyone 
from your TA to the shy girl down 
the hall has fallen ill. 
Highsmith's 
network anticipates that each of these 
unfortunate so:uls might hobble into 
University Health Services with suspi-
cious symptoms: wheezing, coughing, 
fever, eye infections, muscle soreness, 
and pneumonia. Diagnosing the situa-
tion, Health Services would sound the 
alarm. The Secretary's Office would 
be contacted first and they, in_ turn, 
would activate the Pandemic Plan, 
which would establish an Emergency 
Operations Center. From that point 
forward, the group would seize full 
control, like generals declaring mar-
tial law. The Emergency Operations 
Center would make all of Yale's deci-
sions, from the wording of press re-
leases to deciding if students should be 
home. And if parents require further 
proof that Yale takes its obligations as 
a surrogate family seriously, they need 
10 
not look further than the cell phone 
program included in the revised plan . 
In the case of a crisis, a reverse 9-1-1 
system would generate calls in a crisis 
to thousands of Yale families. Within 
minutes Mom and Dad would know if 
little Suzy was safe. 

Though many other colleges 
have emergency avian flu procedures, 
Yale's plan leads the pack. Connecti-
. cut's Department of Homeland Secu-
rity was so impressed by the U niver-
sity's approach that it asked Yale to 
serve as a case study at an upcoming 
conference. 

What makes Yale so successful 
at handling risk? It may be its over-
all lack of specific emergency plans. 
Highsmith notes that aside from 
avian flu, Yale does not have other 
detailed contingency plans in place. 
"One of the things people in. emergen-
cy managementlearned after Septem-
ber 11th is that you can't imagine the 
worst that will happen," Highsmith 
explains. It's just "wiser to have a 
flexible plan." In short,. Yale puts its 
faith in assembling the right group of 
experts to deal with whatever calam-
ity may occur. By monitoring the big 
picture while simultaneously scruti-
nizing the details, University officials 
leave no risk unexplored. Thanks to 
the Office of Risk Management and 
the Secretary's Office, Yale may not 
be quite as prone to worry as most 
parents but it's got a plan. 
-Marie Diamond


**Mothering Mothers**
**Author: Emily Koh**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

THE RED DOTS ON NANCY Nick-
less's computer monitor indicate that 
the blood sugar levels of one of her 
clients are far outside of the safe 
zone. Levels should hover between 
65 and 140 units, but for this patient, 
the numbers fall closer to four hun-
dred. Nancy's office is on the fourth 
floor of Yale-New Haven Hospital 
in the Perinatal Unit. A large bulletin 
board displays photographs of chil-
dren whose mothers she's counseled, 
and a poem entitled "THANK YOU 
FOR CARING." 

A petite brunette with pageboy 
-style hair and a chipper voice, Nancy 
deserves to be thanked. She is the 
sole registered nurse in the high-risk 
obstetrics department certified as a 
diabetes educator. She counsels every 
patient at Yale-New Haven Hospital 
who develops gestational diabetes. 

Every year, the disease affects 
four percent of pregnant women 
in 
United 
States 
approximately 
135,000 cases. According to the Amer-
ican Diabetes Association "pregnant 
women who have never had diabetes 
before but have high · blood sugar 
(glucose) levels during pregnancy 
are said to have gestational diabetes." 
Like pant sizes and cholesterol levels, 
the prevalence of gestational diabe-
. 
tes has increased with the country's 
rising obesity problem. Nancy's cli-
ent with blood sugar levels in the 
four · hundred range, for example, 
weighs nearly five hundred pounds. 
Simple habits like healthy eating and 
regular exercise help combat gesta-
tional diabetes, but maintaining such 
habits does not come easily. Some of 
her clients cannot afford fresh foods; 
others have multiple children and no 
time for exercise. The five hundred 
pound patient continues to eat fast 
food, probably because burgers and 
fries are the most convenient way to 
feed her existing kids. Her failure 
to get healthy, however, endangers 
not only her own life, but the life of 
the next addition to her family. "At 
the rate she is going," Nancy says, 
"she'lllose the pregnancy." 

Over the next few months, 
Nancy's job will be to help this pa-
tient help herself: to teach her to 
modify her eating habits in order to 
protect her unborn child. But Nan-
cy's role as a maternal figure to these 
future mothers is limited; she can 
advise her patients, but she cannot 
force them to follow her advice. Just 
as these women have limited control 
over their diabetes, Nancy has lim-
ited control over them. 

The morning I meet Nancy in 
her office at Yale-New Haven, one of 
her patients has already failed to show. 
On the phone, the woman claims the 
medical cab never arrived to drive her 
to the hospital. Unsure of when she'll 
see the patient in person, Nancy seiz-
es the opportunity to gather informa-
tion she would have acquired dur-
February 2007 

ing the actual appointment. "While 
I have you on the phone, can I have 
your blood sugars?" she asks: The pa-
tient evades her question and, for the 
remainder of the conversation, Nancy 
attempts to steer her back: she wants 
the numbers. 

First the patient claims she lost 
her glucometer, the machine that 
measures ~lood sugar levels. Then 
she changes her mind it wasn't · 
lost but broken, her son had spilled· 
orange juice on it. Finally, Nancy 
hangs up and lets out a small sigh. 
"Well," she says. "I don't know how 
much of that to believe." Nancy's 
workday is weighed down by such 
conversations. Between transporta-
tion, child care, work, and the dis-
comfort of pricking one's finger to 
draw blood, it conies as no great sur-
prise that many of the women Nancy 
counsels fail to monitor their prog-
ress. Patients may not provide the 
. information she needs, but they have 
· no trouble recounting their personal 
woes. "I could be on the phone for 
hours with their personal problems" 
she tells me, "Some of these people 
begin with a lot." 

One woman would call from 
the back room of the store where 
she worked, crying because her boss 
would not allow her to sit down. 
She is 31-years-old and has "nine 
living children right now." N arrey 
flips through a list of patients. One 
woman has three kids, another has 
more 
and one woman currently 
in rehabilitation for drug abuse has 
seven. "But that doesn't stop them," 
Nancy says. "They keep coming 
back and having more.'' Multiple 
pregnancies and repeated bouts of 
gestational diabetes do not guaran-
tee that patients will adopt better 
habits." Missed appointments and 
non-compliance persist. "You can't 
make the horse drink the water 
when it's not good." 

Not all of Nancy's patients are 
difficult to track down. The patients 
who are best at maintaining their 
blood sugar are the .ones who have 
12 
the resources to do so: food, money, 
an education, and family support. But 
they also are not the women who are 
at the greatest risk. 

It's the women without resources 
who cancel their appointments, who 
refuse to take urine tests, who fudge 
their blood sugar numbers to· please 
her or simply to get her off their case. 
She mentions one woman who would 
call and claim that her blood sugar 
levels were in the range of one or two 
hundred. When Nancy reviewed the 
data herself, she found the numbers 
were actually closer to four hundred. 
She pulls up the patient's file on her 
computer and notices that she has 
since miscarried, after only fourteen 
weeks of pregnancy. 

"Sometimes 
h ' 
' 
"N 
t at s nature s way, 
ancy says mat-
ter-of-factly. "That baby was just 
swimming in glucose.'~ 

Nancy does not become sad or 
sentimental at the reminder of this 
failed pregnancy she did what she 
could and understands the inherent 
limitations of her job. Nancy can 
counsel women about the biology of 
gestational diabetes, but she cannot 
force them to . change their lifestyle. 
The most she can do is pick up the 
phone. The greatest help she can 
provide is her own availability. 

The telephone rings. "New cli-
ent,'' Nancy says. She starts to pull 
up files on her computer that she'll 
include in an information packet an 
explanation of the disorder with di-
etary guidelines. If Nancy mails it to 
her this afternoon, the patient should 
receive it either tomorrow or the day 
after. Nine months later, if all goes 
well, a baby will follow. 
-EmilyKoh


**Flirting For Disaster**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 12**

IN THE INTEREST OF ERADICATING 
landmines from the face of the planet, 
Yale paid for two chocolate fountains. 
As an attendee at the recent Speed 
Dating for Charity event, I, on the 
other hand, paid with my dignity. 

More than three-hundred sin-
gles, enticed by the tagline "Give 
Some, Get Some," donated five dol-
lars for landmine removal but seemed 
anxious to get their money's worth in 
love. We mingled in the Davenport 
Common Room, which had been 
transformed by $1800 worth of sub-
sidized, Costco-purchased brownies 
and punch, then we shuffled into the 
Dining Hall. Bewildered girls tried 
to look relaxed and drunk guys tried 
to look sober as we sat at row after 
row of red clothed tables littered 
with candy and suggested conversa-
• t1on starters. 

But to the high-mi~ded altru-
ists among us, this money-for-dates 
proposition just seemed so crass. 
Weren't we there to help uproot 
landmines across the globe? 
The 
promised exchange seemed closer to 
roughly one dignitile · let's say, the 
amount of dignity you spend trying 
to prove to a complete stranger that 
you have any personality at all for 
x amount of Afghan limbs kept safe 
from Soviet-era landmines. 



**Title: Charity Speed-Dating@ Yale**
**Author: Mitch Reich**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Afghan limbs and Soviet land-
mines were conspicuously absent 
from the website for "Charity Speed-
Dating@ Yale." It was jarringly pink 
and adorned with images of stuffed 
horses kissing 
the event's logo. I 
wasn't sure if I was supposed to re-
• 
semble a kissing horse, which seemed 
like an inauspicious beginning, or 
if they were supposed to represent 
third-worlders rejoicing to be free of 
landmines, which struck me as kind of 
unfair. After I passed the horses, I was 
prompted to describe myself in five 
adjectives. Apparently, I'm a Friendly 
Liberal Intellectual Idealist (After all, I 
do go to Yale and I was saving human 
lives), and since I was basically lying 
already, I threw in Attractive as well. 
What was I interested in? Like any 
honest gay man, I picked "really really 
really ridiculously good looking" and 
left it at that. 

When I arrived at the actual event, 
however, there weren't enough gay 
men signed up to segregate us into a 
"really really really ridiculously good 
looking" table and a "people with 
personalities" table. 
Which is just 
as well, I thought, since I wouldn't 
want to find out at which table I'd be 
placed anyway. What we twelve re-
ceived at the double chocolate foun-
tained speed-dating night at the gay 
Ivy, was a single half-sized, kids' table 
sheeted in a gray tablecloth. The gray 
color, different from all other tables 
decked in red warned unwary chicks 
that, no, this wasn't a dream,all these 
sensitive men did indeed watch Proj-
ect Runway. 

The emcee, a Y alie, doubled as a 
raffle-caller, offering several hundred 
dollars, worth of prizes (for us, not 
the landmine victims). He ended the 
excruciatingly long period of off-the-
clock socializing by thanking us for 
coming to speed-date and commend-
ing our desire to eliminate the scourge 
of landmines. "We wanted to do a 
charity event/, Yale,s Ivy Corps rep-
resentative and the night's organizer 
told me, "that was also a social event.,, 

Those who came to the Davenport 
February 2007 
. . 
dining hall represented only a small 
part of a larger confederation of love-
less academic do-gooders · a similar 
event took place on the campuses of 
every Ivy League college yvith a heart 
and a social life. (Harvard declined to 
. participate.) 

As my first speed-date began, 
a pang of anxiety struck me: I had 
nothing interesting to say. Why, I 
asked myself, was I here? I en vi-
sioned Croatian goatherds frolicking 
.through the grassy fields of Pannonia, 
and I said to myself, "you selfish idi-
ot, there could be landmines in those 
fields: start speed dating and shed 
some dignity!" So I got to work. 

Dignity, it turned out, was easy 
to shed. The Yale gay community is 
insular and incestuous enough that I 
was only one or two degrees of sepa-
ration removed from two thirds of 
the boys sitting near me: I'd broken 
up with one of them about a month 
before, and the next boy over had re-
jected me earlier in the semester. So 
those dates were easy, dignity loss-
wise. I ironically asked, "Do I know 
you?" and laughed at my own joke, 
and spent the next two minutes and 
fifty seconds praying that time would 
accelerate. Then there were the two 
guys that my friend and I already had 
slightly naughty nicknames for, and 
then there was my friend, then his ex-
boyfriend,s ex, then my ex,s ex. So 
that made seven dates with a base-
line level of awkwardness that, if my 
calculations were correct, probably 
saved a few dozen Bosnians from ill-
fated explosive stumbles. 

· 
The inescapable irony of the 
whole event was that, in the real 
world, where I understand that peo-
ple actually go on dates, speed -dating 
has found its niche as an altet native to 
a whole evening of one-on-one awk-
wardness. But at Yale, where dating 
comes in a distant third to random 
Beta hookups and library sleepovers 
as a popular preamble to relation-
ships, speed-dating seems to be the 
closest to old-fashioned dating that 
most Elis have ever experienced. Wit-
ness, for instance~ my female friend's 
speed-date with a football player who 
brought not one but three beers to 
carry him through less than an hour 
of 'dating. Or another,s speed-date 
with a fellow who could bar~ly utter 
more than a handful of words during 
the requisite three minutes. You'd 
think the generation brought up on 
Seinfeld, Sex and the City, and even 
Doug would have more sensitivity 
to the complex kabuki of structured 
romance. But this toe-dip into the 
world of face-to-face, exchange-of-
information mating rituals proved 
as perilous as a jaunt thro1:1gh an un-
cleared Mozambican battleground. 

Still, I'd be lying if I said I didn,t 
enjoy it. Yale may have tossed dating 
· of the ice cream social variety onto 
the Sustainable Trash Heap, but even 
this pale hint of that lost age awak-
ened a little conservative nostalgia in 
me. Once i ducked past those few so-
cial landmines, there was something 
refreshingly honest and direct about 
talking to someone with a shared 
awareness that we were evaluating 
each other as potential. .. well, dates. 

And everyone came away from 
the event with something. The land-
mine victims got a neat $1700, Yale 
got stuck with the bill for the food, 
and somewhere among the evening,s 
terrifying moments~ I managed to 
score a date with a cute guy. I would 
almost say· it felt better than spending 
those five bucks on world peace, but 
I'm a Friendly Liberal Intellectual 
Idealist. I care too much for that. 
-
Mitch Reich 
Illustrations by Adriane Quinlan 
13 


**Title: Yale students derobe for the sake of art**
**Author: Jordan Jacks**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

Sam Messer, the Associate Dean of the Yale Art 
School, is a quotable man who favors black 
sweaters and chic eyeglasses and has an im-
peccably shaved head. He peppers his speech with 
references to art theory, waves his arms energetically 
when talking of art's "creation .of a visual language," 
and, peering through his black frames, says that he 
could pay me quite a bit of money to take off my 
clothes. Since the subject at hand is nude modeling, 
his offer is perfectly appropriate. 

The power of persuasion seems to be a requisite 
trait for anyone walking th~ halls of 1156 Chapel Street. 
An atmosphere of import and meaning pervades: 
well-shod twenty-somethings with charcoal-stained 
hands shuffle past doors that open into rooms filled 
with half-painted canvases and empty easels. Even the 
most reptilian accountant would want to paint, or be 
painted, after ten minutes in the Yale Art School. For 
a second I consider taking Messer up on his offer be-
fore realizing that I would be literally inhabiting one 
of the world's most popular nightmares: standing in 
front of a crowd of strangers, entirely naked. 

Fortunately for the University, the majority 
of applicants for model positions are not nervous 
prudes entranced by their first encounters with 
the art world. A quick perusal of the massive, over-
stuffed blue binder that archives the application and 
Polaroid of every hired model reveals an extraordi-
narily varied bunch: black, white, Asian, male, female, 
burly, lithe, hairy, sleek, beautiful, and often stun-
ningly ordinary. Pasted on many of the applications 
are sticky notes with comments scrawled by the art 
professors on the model's performance. One model 
has fantastic poses, another talks too much, and one 
is generally aloof and brings strange visitors. It is a 
veritable Domesday Book of evaluated nudity, and 
one that I am allowed to see only because of a care-
less attendant. After only a few educational minutes, 
it's snapped frorn my hands. 

Despite The Blue Binder's aura of secrecy, ap-
plying to model at Yale Art is a straightforward pro-
cess. Easy, even: A potential applicant fills out an 




**Title: The Blue Binder**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
application, snaps a Polaroid, indicates her 
availability and modeling preferences (nude 
or clothed, undergraduate or graduate classes), 
and·she is on her way to becoming someone's 
charcoal sketch. "She'' is the correct pronoun 
.here for more than political reasons: the Art 
School's models are generally female. Male 
models, Messer tells me, are more difficult to 
acquire. "American men want only one penis 
.in the room," he says. 

Gender politics aside, The Blue Binder 
· brims with photographs of women, some 
quite old. Many, however, are young enough 
to be Yale students and some of them actu-
ally are. Though the vast majority of models 
are "casuals" 
local residents unaffiliated 
with the University the school currently 
employs several Yalies willing to defrock for 
the sake of art. At $15 dollars per hour clothed, 
$20 nude, modeling is one of the University's 
highest paying student jobs, but certainly not 
the oldest. According to Sam Messer, before 
Yale went co-ed, art students relied solely on 
outside models or drew from busts. It is dif-
ficult to pinpoint who the first nude student 
model on Yale's campus was, as even though 
women were admitted to the Art School as 
early as 1873, they were certainly not encour-
aged to pose fully nude. Considering women 
were not even admitted to Yale College until 
1969, no undergraduate women posed until at 
least the 1970s. By the 1980s, however, the job 
was advertised and feminist Naomi Wolf, who 
would later go on to publish The Beautylv!Jth, ad-
vise AI Gore, and accuse Yale Professor Har-
old Bloom of sexual assault, modeled nude as 
an undergraduate. 

It is difficult to calculate the exact num-
ber of models currently employed by the 
University, largely due to the ambiguity of 
what constitUtes employment. Though the 
Blue Binder is packed with models, few of 
them are ever called to duty. 

Aside from indicating availability and 
class preferences (an undergraduate model 
might choose not to model for introductory 
courses filled with students she passes daily 
on Cross Campus), there is little the models 
can do clothed to prepare for the day of their 
employment. The process is almost entirely 
in the hands of those who run the classes. 

Professors looking for models consult The 
Binder and contact those whose preferences 


Ies a bit reductive and more than a little 
cliche to call the models «muses" for certain 
courses, but their constancy and purpose as the 
form for student art encourages the compari-
son. Though the hiring process is largely con-
trolled by extrinsic factors, the model wields 
a surprising. amount of power once inside a 
figure drawing class. When I visit the evening 
session run by Lasley, the robed model ambles 
around the studio before the session, leisure-
ly eating Chinese take-out and insisting that 
country music is not played. At her request, a 
heater is placed next to the pillowed, draped 
platform where she will recline. A boombox 
plays Bjork. The shades are drawn. 

Though practices vary by professor and 
class, Lasley's informal evening drawing ses-
sions leave the choice of poses to the model. 
On this night, Jennifer, a tall, curvaceous «ca-
sual," asks if any of the assorted students sit-
ting at their easels have posing preferences. 
She then divides the session into a series of 
shorter warmup poses followed by two hour-
long poses intersperesed with much needed 
five minute breaks to ease her muscles. Jenni-
fer steps up to the platform, unties her waist-
band, and drops her robe. 

Far more than appearance or body-type, 
the choice of pose is the defining factor in mod-
eling skill. To pose well is an act of both literal 
and figurative balance; a model must be able 
to display creativity and aesthetic sensibility 
while remaining absolutely still. Shorter pos-
es 
generally two to five minutes 
are offered 
at the beginning of any figure drawing session 
to facilitate warm-up sketches. When the me-
dium is conducive to quick sketches, a model 
can afford to hold her arms out and lean at pre-
carious angles. To formulate. a longer pose for 
paint or inkwash, a model may have to hold 
still for up to thirty minutes. There's a thin line 
between a beautiful curve and a strained back, 
and models generally experiment with differ-
ent poses until they find the perfect combina-
tion of intriguing form and weight-distribut-
ing, neck-supporting function. 

In the evening class, Jennifer begins with 
a quick series of short standing poses. With legs shoulder-
width apart and head evenly turned, she assumes the stance 
of a nude conqueror. After two minutes, she raises one leg 
and places an arm over her head to hold an invisible para-
sol; 1 ennifer becomes a girlish figure dancing through an 
imaginary rainstorm. Through five more short poses and 
two reclining long poses, she remains motionless but for 
her eyes, which take in a room of bizarre juxtapositions: 
her discarded sandals and robe s~t next to the platform, a 
crowd of appealingly mussed artists works intently, and . 
one hapless fellow in a Hollister hoodie holding a nearly 
empty sketchbook stands nearby. Observer versus ob- · 
served, artist versus art, clothed versus naked 
once 1 en-
nifer or any model steps onto the platform, boundaries are 
drawn and roles are created. 

Nude modeling is about far more than taking off your 
clothes. When models are given the freedom to choose their 
poses, they collaborate in the process of their own artistic 
representation. For Sarah Lasley, who sometimes poses for 
her own class, the model herself both facilitates and directs 
the artistic process. Sarah recalls sessions in which she has 
occupied the · role of both supervisor and model, bustling. 
about in a robe to adjust the platform upon which she 
would soon recline, alternatively telling students, "Paper's 
over there" and asking, ccHow do you like my boobs?'' 

·The typical model, however, values her employment 
for more than a salary; on the clock, she finds an opportuni-: 
ty for self-reflection. The obvious question most people ask 
of nude models is what do they think about when holding 
still for so long, without clothes? And the answer is almost 
unanimous: themselves. Elizabeth, an undergraduate who 
·•·. 
•• 
-
has modeled nude for the Art School for the past 
two years and requested her name be changed for 
this article, sees modeling as an occasion for medi-
tation, an "enforced concentration" that has taught 
her to appreciate the workings of the human body. 
ccwhen all you can do is concentrate on holding a 
certain position," she says, " you really learn things 
about your posture and balance." 

However, modeling nude is more than simple 
mechanics; it has provided Elizabeth with a new per-
spective on how she perceives her body and herself. 
Since a figure drawing session produces numerous 
portraits from just as many angles, the results reflect 
the inherently subjective nature of an image: there 
may be only one woman draped over the platform, 
but there are as many ways of perceiving her as there 
are artists in the room. 

For Elizabeth, this expe.rience has helped com-
bat negative self-image. Her first attempts at model- · 
. ing were filled with anxiety about how she looked. "I 
used to try to suck in my stomach when I first start-
ed/' she recalls. Later, she realized that "nobody's 
in a class to scout for Victoria's Secret models," and 
that few students, if any, care about a less-than-flat 
midsection. The importance lies in the body itself, 
and in realizing that art takes as subject what popu-
lar culture might classify as imperfections. "Maybe 
one guy just focuses in on the way the vertebrae in 
your neck are shaded," she says. "Or someone will 
draw you with huge hips or with a really tiny waist 
or with distorted eyes and ape-like arms." 

Artists and models seem to agree that the artistic 
method the process of drawing and being drawn-
provides both the artist with an opportunity for 
aesthetic improvement and the model with a sense 
of personal fulfillment. Aspiring artists depend on 



**Title: The Nude Truth**
**Author: Jordan Jacks**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
models, and though modeling nude 
may require a great deal of courage, it 
also seems to meld a personal knowl-
edge of the body a knowledge that 
the body is, as Elizabeth says, <<a tru-
ly amazing machine, a work of art in 
its very ability to do things as seem-
ingly simple as making cereal" with 
a more powerful conception of the 
self. Standing on a stage, naked, in 
front of strangers forces models to 
confront and overcome their own 
fears. Stripped of society and its cot- . 
ton accoutrements, the lone artist and 
the pure form contend with what it 
means to have a body, to be a human. 
The process of becoming art is, for 
the model, a method of self-portrait. 
So why was The Blue Binder, a 
record of so many positive experi-
ences, ripped from my hands after 
two minutes? Why wasn,t I-allowed 
to see the application to be a nude 
model? Why did the undergradu-
ate model I interviewed espouse the 
benefits of the process while with-
holding her name from publication? 
Why are the benefits of nude model-
ing confined to the studio in which 
they are experienced? 

The artistic community at Yale 
explains such privacy by contrasting 
their world with a vaguely defined 
"outside," which sees the Venus de 
Milo and screams "armless strip-
per." The "outside world," Yale Art 
would think, often wrongly sees the 
nude form as a taboo, and, like John 
Ashcroft and his drapery, would 
rather cover it. 

The popular conflation of sex-
uality and the nude form is an obvi-
ous problem that models confront. 
Elizabeth, the undergraduate model, 
has no problem telling her parents 
and friends about her on-campus 
job shes proud of her work, and 
besides, "ies a good boyfriend test." 
Jealousy is unattractive, and philis-
-
tinism even more so anyone who 
conceives of modeling for the Art 
School as just "flashing your tits 
to strangers" is "probably pretty 
closed-minded." Yet Elizabeth re-
fuses to publish her name, citing that 
February 2007 
"I used to try to suck 
in my stomach when 
I rst started," she 
recalls. Later, she re-
alizedthat"nobodys 
in a class to scout or 
Victoria's Secret 
models." 

many "assume that naked means be-
ing easy or irresponsible," and that 
"without having participated or ob-
served the modeling class dynamic it 
would be easy to assume that there,s 
something inherently devious in 
nudity with strangers." 

Sarah Lasley combats the "sex-
ual nude" stereotype with mockery. 
"When I model," she says, "I do 
cheesecake poses, I do pin-up stuff." 
Satirizing popular conception is her 
way of confronting it. Lasley admits 
that modeling nude is the only job 
she has ever had to hide from her 
parents. not because she is any-
thing remotely close to ashamed, 
but because their Southern Baptist 
values simply wouldn,t condone 
· such behavior. 

The Yale Art SchooPs attitude 
toward nude modelling is strangely 
conflicted. On the one hand, it pro-
claims the nude is a representation of 
human beauty, a necessary tool for 
artistic training, and an empower-
ing symbol of identity which trumps 
the sexual prejudices of the outside 
world. On the other hand, a curious 
defeatism reigns: Within the halls of 
1156 Chapel, everyone is persuaded 
of the beauty of the nude, but tak-
ing one step out of the building 
renders any attempts at explanation · 
meaningless. By recognizing a pub-
lic prejudice and only combating 
it within the privacy of the studio, 
nude modeling at Yale succumbs to 
the taboo it so vehemently opposes. 
If they won't understand it anyway, 
the reasoning goes, why try to set 
the record straight? 

Only once has Lasley ever felt 
ill-at-ease in a class. Two first-time 
male models were working as a pair·-
one would model only if the other 
would. Having never been nude in 
public, perhaps because they were 
on a dare, the models had no idea 
. what to do. Once the robes were off, 
they proceeded to model the same 
pose hands on slightly-thrust hips, 
with a stoic gaze into the distance, as 
if they had just crossed the Rubicon 
nude · for three hours. The usually 
aloof figure-drawing class devolved 
into heckling. "It was so uncomfort-
able/' Lasley told me, not because 
the men were naked but because of 
an absence of protocol. A lack of un-
derstanding about the nude model-
ing process had sexualized the pro-
ceedings and rendered them comic. 
The outside world had invaded the 
art building and transformed art into 
a one big joke. 

This is the fear that nude models 
at Yale face: the beauty of the nude is 
overshadowed by the world,s misin-
formed conception of it. It is a fear 
bred of division, of the walls between 
art and culture and their complicated 
breaching. The only awkward mo-
ments of a figure drawing class are 
its moments of transition, those 
seconds in which the model takes 
off her glasses, unties her robe, and 
for a split second is both art and art-
less, observer and observed, clothed 
and naked. ~n the portrait that Yale,s 
Art Department draws of itself, the 
model is half-clothed. 

jordan jacks, a sophomore in Say-
brook College, is on the staff of 
TNJ.


**Title: How Hollywood Imagines Yale's Most Secret Space**
**Author: Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

arly in The Good Shepherd, Yale man Edward Bell Wilson is 
granted access to the tomb of the secret society Skull and Bones. 
It is here that Wilson, portrayed by sensitive heartthrob Matt Da-
. mon, first enters a world of secrecy and deception in Robert DeNiro's 
recent espionage drama. But Art Director Jeannine Oppewall who 
garnered the production's sole Academy Award nomination 
has ex-
changed the frumpy brownstone on High Street for something a little 
more va-va-voom: Damon pushes through immense oxidized copper 
doors and enters a fortress of cold white granite that resembles the fa-
~ade of a courthouse. 

Perhaps we shouldn't expect accuracy from a movie that shows 
women studying in the Yale library in 1939 (a full thirty years before 
co-eds first marched in) and casts Angelina J olie as your tandard, 
glum housewife. But unlike many of Hollywood's historical flubs, the 
inaccuracies Oppewall makes in portraying the tomb are indicative of 
deeper cultural beliefs about what is hidden here, in the American 
icon of secrecy . 

The interior of Oppewall's Skull and Bones is even more far-
fetched than its exterior. Inside, Wilson finds a neo-cla_ssical foyer 
reminiscent of the Capitol rotunda. Veiny marble columns the color 
of money stretch from floor to ceiling. Buttery candlelight skims 
the shoulders of Wilson's wide-lapel suit, landing on marble floors 
that look like they have been doused in olive oil and scrubbed with a 
toothbrush. Combining the flickering candlelight of gothic academia 
with the cool, glazed marbl~ of government halls, the tomb is a mash-
up of cartoony cliches of power. Here, the bright sounds of boot heels · 

clacking across the marble floor de-
clare that these are men on a mis-
sion with places to go. This is a site 
where important things happen, but 
happen in secret. 

When Wilson graduates to join 
the O.S.S., the intelligence agency 
that will later evolve into the C.I.A., 
he finds himself in rooms like these, 
pacing halls of the same polished 
marble. We share Wilson's feeling 
that his life has been lined up before 
him as a long series of endless halls 
and · imposing rooms, beginning 
with that tomb on High Street. 

Edward Bell Wilson is the Hol-
lywood amalgam of two actual Yale 
graduates who became CIA opera-
tives in the agency's early days. But 
neither of them was a Bonesman: 
James Angleton, a brilliant spy but 
poor student from the Midwest, 
would never have qualified, and Dick 
Bissell was one of the rare few who 

A fictional Yalie peers down into 
the rotunda of a fictional Skull 
and Bones. 

turned down his tap. Bissell was from 
a Bones family, but he resented how 
his older brother never discussed his 
involvement, keeping the .tomb's se-
crets ccuntil his death." Bissell opely 
declared the society cc counterpro-
ductive to true education." 

Yet the filmmakers turn these 
masters of government intelligence 
into Bonesmen, allying the secrecy 
within the tomb with the secrecy 
within the government. Released 
in the wake of the Patriot Act, the 
Plame affair, and NSA wire-tap-
pings (brought about by the secret 
executive order of a Bonesman), The 
Good Shepherd reflects our culture's 
fear of secrecy in the government. 

Here, in the darkness of a tomb 
we'll never enter, the set designer 
ties the loose threads of conspiracy 
theories into a damning knot. The 
tomb is the physical embodiment of 
our collective fears. 

he tomb onscreen is far from 
what we know of the tomb on 
High Street. What little we do know 
is courtesy of the foolhardy few 
who ·have broken in, and it barely 
resembles the version depicted in 
The Good Shepherd. The most com-
plete schematic comes from the first 
group to enter. In 1877, a group call-
ing itself the "Order of the File and 
Claw" filed the bars on the rear base-
ment window before clawing them 
out, climbing inside, pilfering the 
tomb, and writing up an expository 
pamphlet that included floor plans 
and a description of a stronghold 
with the air of a ccpleasant, convivial 
dub" where "men may enjoy good 
suppers and quiet whist." 

The next break-in came a century 
later, in 1979, when a Bonesman pro-
testing the society's unisex policy led 
a group of gutsy co-eds indoors. In a 
campus magazine, one girl described 
a room "like Miss Havisham's shrine," 
in "kind of a shambles." The tomb, 
she said, "looked like a boy's dorm 
room ... like it hadn't been cleaned in 
six months." And from the anony-
mous accounts of ex-Bonesmen, re-
porter Alexandra Robbins portrayed 
the tomb as a "Victorian living room." 
News stories most often picture it as 
a glorified frat house. 

The summary vision of these 
accounts informs us that the tail 
of the tomb's "T" shape contains 
a long, high-ceilinged back din-
ing room, while the rectangle fac-
ing High Street contains a basement 
with a mu.sty kitchen and storage 
rooms. Above the basement level is a 
two-story mini-manse that includes 
a cozy, book-lined living room and 
a few bedrooms, convenient resting
S u an Bones 
a le to sue or i-
el, which would 
what the tomb 
does contain. 



**Title: Skull & Bones: An American Enigma**
**Author: Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
• •
places for drunken inductees.
Good Shepherd is not the only
film to take on the mystery of
Skull and Bones. In 2000, The Skulls
defined the stereotypical Bonesman
in the character of Caleb Mandrake.
A Yale senior, Mandrake pulls his
convertible up to a riverbank to
watch a regatta and hauls himself out
of the bucket seat for a better view.
In the process, he blocks· the view of
his girlfriend, who whines: "Hey-
liiiike, I can't see the race!" Always
the
gentleman,
Mandrake huffs,
"Imagine it."
The suave, assured villain played
by hunky Paul Walker is a caricature
of the Yale Man: rich enough for that
nice car, charming enough for that
to depict a space that, while it does
exist, feels fictional
a space that is
a product of the cultural imagination,
a space that has come to symbol-
ize our fears of back-alley political
power, a space that has a deep . and
yet completely obscure history.
When the hard:-working, cre.w-
rowing, · all-around-good-boy Luke
MeN amara (0shua Jackson) first
enters the tomb depicted in The
.
Skulls, he finds himself in a very dif-
ferent space from that which appears
in The Good Shepherd. The center of
the tomb is a stark grey atrium, _with
the chilly air of a bank vault, that
Bonesmen refer · to as "The Ritual
Room." The columns are not Doric
or Corinthian but boxy Bauhaus,
hewn of light grey stone.
Inscribed into the wall of the second
level are three capital letters spelling
out the word ''WAR." The film tells
us that this inscription is the six foot
tall stone equivalent of a peppy poster
in a career services office: it is intend-
ed to prod Bonesmen to volunteer for
their country. This task, a Bonesman
and U.S. Senator explains to a bewil-
dered MeN amara, is a necessary step
on the road to political power. When
MeN amara asks the obvious ques-
tion "But what if there isn't a war to
volunteer for?" the Senator strokes
a glowing, neon-green skull and re-
plies ominously, "Son, there is always


nice girl, laid-back enough to spend
time away rom 1s
1 ton essay to
eer at regattas an a tota ass 0 e
"Mandrake he was destt.ned for the
Skulls. the day he Was b·orn," says a
soct'ety recrut'ter:, .watcht'ng ht·m at t·he
regatta through huntl.ng bt·n· oculars
But Mandrake l·s the qut'ntessentt'al
Skull not only because of his chiseled,
Nordic features, his powerful dad,
and his rotating chorus of doting gals;
he is a Skull because he delights in ob-
structing views, telling those who'd
like .to peer over his wide shoulders
to simply "imagine it."
Despite the sketch of the tomb
afforded by those break-ins, Holly-
wood has taken Mandrake's advice
to heart, "imagining" the tomb how-
ever it sees fit. For all its rumored
power, Skull and Bones has no abil- ·
ity to control its image. Though the
club is routinely depicted on such
ostensibly objective news sources as
CNN as a power-hungry, fear-mon-
gering bastion of elitism, Skull and
Bones is completely unable to sue for
libel, which would require revealing
what the tomb does contain. This
leaves set designers free to let their
imaginations run wild. Their cam-
eras can glide inside with the author-
ity of objective journalists, and walk
us through rooms that are wholly
fantastical. It's a singular challenge,


a war sometime, somewhere."
ne of these cinematic tombs was
constructed after a Bonesman
led this country into the Gulf War,
the other after his Bonesman son led
us int·o the War on Terror
a war
conducted almost entirely behind
closed doors. In their depictions of
the stronghold, both films reflect the
anxiety that national matters of life
and death are decided in secret by a
handful of powerful men.
Are these the men who encour-
age our country to go to ''WAR?"
The beginnings of wars are often
obscured from the populace. Only
after a Supreme Court battle were
newspapers able to publish sections
of the seven thousand pages of The
Pentagon Papers elucidating the ori-
gins of the Vietnam War~ More re-
cently, Mark Danner's investigation
of the commencement of the war in
Iraq, published under the title The
Secret Way to War, highlighted the
military planning that began as early·
as November, 2001, before inspec-
tors could confirm the existence of
weapons of mass destruction. The
war-room of the White House, like
a secret society, is a place obscured
to the public until the adventurous
few break in.
In both The Skulls and The Good
Shepherd, Skull and Bones repre-
sents this lacuna in our national self-
knowledge, an all-important place
that is perpetually hidden. Within
these walls, war resembles the induc-
tion rituals MeN amara must endure
to enter the "Ritual Room"
just
another frat-boy initiation on the
path to power.


impler than any other fa~ade fac-
ing High Street, Skull and Bones'
tomb is almost inviting car:ved of
rosy stone, worn soft at the edges,
with slit windows that peer sadly
at 0 ld Campus. There are no overt
markings suggesting that the tomb
is anything .other than a building
that sometimes people go out of and
sometimes people go in.

But there's something here that
stirs our desire to enter. Look closer
at the society's official logo in-
scribed on intra-society memos- -
and there seems to be something
lurking in the dark sockets. The lo-
go's artist has taken care to show us
that something is back there, lurk-
ing just beyond. The two hollows,
like the tomb's guarded windows,
are obscured portals hinting at an
interior that they simultaneously
refuse to reveal.

In The Skulls, the Bonesmen
monitor their tomb on closed -circuit
camera. But when our hero proudly
takes the tape to the police station at
the film's end offering seemingly
foolproof evidence of a murder Man-
drake committed in the tomb there
isn't anything to see. The screen is
all static and fuzz. "There must be
something wrong," he pleads, flail-
ing his arms wildly. "It was all here!
It was all on film!"

In the end, film fails us. The best
we can do is as the murderer recom-
mended: "Imagine."

Adriane Quinlan, a senior in Cal-
houn College, is the Editor-in-Chief
ofTNJ.



**Title: The Gardasil Gap**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
t was September a month before I ever met Maya.-
and I was naked in a room of strangers, lying de-robed 
on a cold examining table in a cold room on the sterile 
. 
second floor of Yale University Health Services. My 
feet were lodged in stirrups attached to either side of the ex-
amining table, my legs were spread indecently wide, and my 
vagina had been pried open by a large plastic beak-looking 
instrument. Stationed somewhere in the midst of it all was a 
balding man in a white coat exhorting me to "just relax" so 
he could scrape and swab my unsuspecting cervix. 

When the spreading and prying came to a merciful end, 
I clothed and composed myself and remembered why I 
subjected myself to this in the first place. I had come to ask 
about Gardasil, the new vaccine against human papillomavirus 
(HPV). A while before, my mother had for warded me a bit 
of online news: ''Test shows vaccine prevents cervical cancer/' 
the headline had cheered. 

So when I gripped the sides of the examining table and 
asked my gynecologist for the shot, I was startled by his _ 
response. The vaccine, he said somewhat apologetically, was 
not yet available at University Health Services. UHS first 
needed to devise a system to accommodate the many women 
at Yale. When it was ready, he promised, I'd be sure to hear. 

I decided to trust the doctor: After all, a survey by Trojan 
Brand Condoms in the fall placed Yale at the top of a list of 
one hundred universities in terms of sexual health resources 
(Harvard came in 43rd). But while UHS has now 
• 
-. 
the real possibility. -
The truth is, many people with HPV don't even 
know that they have it. But widespread screening 
in the last forty years with annual Pap smears like 
the one I had enjoyed has knocked cervical cancer 
down from its former spot as the number one cause 
of cancer deaths in American women to a distant 
number two. For four decades, this seemed to be as 
good as it would get. Then it got better. 

In the fall of 2005, Merck announced that it had 
developed a hundred percent effective vaccine to 
prevent two particular strains of HPV associated -, 
with cervical cancer in women. By June, the FDA 
had issued a rapid approval of the vaccine, called 
Gardasil. "There have only been a few times in my 
life as a physician when I've been able to say (at least 
to myself), 'This is truly big news,'" a doctor told 
the New York Times. Female lawmakers on both 
sides of the aisle in the Michigan state legislature 
were even inspired to band together, their common 
womanhood trumping petty partisanship, in support 
of a bill mandating the vaccine for sixth-grade girls. 

If it was such big news, then why did I have 
so much trouble securing doses of the vaccine in 
September, three months after it was approved by 
the FDA? 

made Gardasil available, it wasn't until two months 
after my start-of-school Pap smear. Even though 
Trojan's "Sexual Health Report Card"-got it mostly 
right 
acknowledging real strides like free STD 
testing, contraception availability, sexual assault 
services, and various outreach programs 
as I 
learned more about sexual health at Yale, I found 
that there are still major gaps in the system. And 
these gaps may be putting students at unnecessary 
risk. 

'' 
feel like the clock is ticking,'' Maya told me. 
She is a freshman, but not in the way I was a 
freshman 
glum, moody, stubbornly maladjusted. It was 
only October when I met Maya (a pseudonym), and she was 
already eminently adjusted. She would spend a lot of time 
just sitting a~ound talking with her suitemates about how 
happy they all were at Yale. But when her suitemates started 
coming home, she ushered me from the conunon room into 
the privacy of her bedroom. She could talk with them about 
most things 
just not, I supposed, about this. 

ater that same month I asked a friend whether 
...... she had considered getting the vaccine. She 
did not even know what HPV even was 
an early 
indication, I should have realized, Yale women are 
not receiving the sexual health info they need. I 
explained that HPV is the most conunon sexually 
transmitted disease in the U.S., that between fifty 
and seventy percent of us will contract it at some 
point in our lives, and that although in most cases 
it will clear undetected, in a third of cases it causes 
genital warts, and in 9,700 American women each 
year it turns into cervical cancer. Her brow knit. 
"Do I have it?" my friend joked, half mortified at


Maya like many freshmen 
had been looking fox ward 
to starting college single. She had altnost made it, too, 
before fate intervened: Mere months away from a swingin' 
single freshman year, Maya met someone. She described an 
almost old-fashioned courtship, conducted through modern 
technology. "The entire relationship consisted of sharing and 
talking," she explained, describing their long instant messenger 
conversations. "We learned a lot about each other." 

She learned, for instance, that he has HPV and occasionally 
suffers from flare-ups of genital warts. The two had not slept 
with each other over the sununer, but she told me of her hopes 
for Thanksgiving break: She was considering taking the Next 
Step. With just two months left until Thanksgiving, Maya, 
-
27 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
, 
• 
concerned for her health, went to her OB-GYN to ask 
for Gardasil. There was scarcely enough time for two of 
the vaccine's three rounds. 

By late October, when UHS began offering Gardasil, 
it was too late for Maya to be even two-thirds protected 
for their big reunion. cci'm seeing this guy soon,'' she said. 
ccobviously it's not a guarantee, but anything to reduce 
· my chances." Her even voice took on the slightest edge. 
c~I feel a lot of risk surrounding this whole issue. I feel 
like the clock is ticking." 
s · Maya guided me through her problems, I 
discovered even more troubling news than her delay 
in obtaining Gardasil. Maya received little to no guidance 
along the way. When Maya's boyfrit:nd first told her that 
he had HPV, she was stumped. ccThe last time I learned 
about it was in the eighth grade," she recalled thinking. 
cci don't remember what HPV is, or how you can get it. I 
have no idea how this works." 

ccN o one knows what to do,'' said Maggie Doherty, a 
' 
former coordinator of the Reproductive Rights Action 
League of Yale (RALY). On the surface, she appears 
deceptively sunny. But when she spoke about sexual 
health at Yale, her tone was slightly despondent. c'I'm 
still sometimes flabbergasted. We have Peer Health 
Educators, we have all this stuff that's out there, and no 
one knows where to get a condom or what to do in an 
emergency." 

As a RALY member, Maggie has pushed UHS to 
increase transparency of the University's policies on 
emergency contraception. "Yale's sexual health policies 
are kind of odd in that they're good," she said. "They 
do good things. But because some of these things are 
controversial, Yale doesn't do a good job of getting 
word out there. People just don't know about it." To 
understand Yale's reasoning, Doherty imagined stodgy 
old alums raising a ruckus when they read about things 
like the ready availability of emergency contraceptives 
or Yale's free coverage of unlimited abortions. Heavily 
dependent on contributions from more conservative 
alumni, the University has allowed a certa-in vagueness to 
accrue around the availability of sexual health resources. 
Doherty also spoke of some women going in to ask 
for emergency contraceptives only to face doctors who 
accused them of reckless behavior. "We've been trying 
to get our hands on their policy for a long time, and 
haven't been able. Apparently doctor ~o doctor it's very 
specific," Doherty said. "Their policy isn't very coherent 
and they don't corninunicate it very effectively." The 
University's inability to provide a clear explication of its 
available resources, she suggested, has led to such well-
intentioned but questionably effective ventures as the 
Peer Health Educators' (PHE) "Connections"workshop, 


--- Page 29 ---

' . 
< 
< • 
<· 
•. 
' ' 
A 
-) 
-~-. j( 
,. . . .e. . . ' 
• • 
• ' ' . ' 
' ·> 
' ' ~ 
.. < 
• ' 
' •• 
·. 
...... 
•• :t ... 
, •. 
> .• 
•• 
... ._.. 
' •· 
• . ' 
. 
" .. 
) 
~ 
-~ 
" ' 
~ '( 
.. ' 
, .... 
-· 
J-1'~,. 
' ' {. .. , 
' < 
•' 
• • • 
•• . ,. 
> 


--- Page 30 ---

The original pamphlet asked male undergraduates, "Would 
you be more careful if it was you that got pregnant?" 
better known as the "freshman sex talk." Doherty sees 
Connections as "just a bizarre sort of failure." 

Peer Health Educator Axel Schmidt, who was trained 
by UHS, explained that the workshop's top priority is 
to convey to students that most of UHS's services are 
free. Educators like Schmidt also direct students to 
other resources, like Walden, a hotline that provides 
general peer counseling. "We try to make sure they 
know [these resources] ~xist," he said. But Axel was 
the first to admit that, because so many resources exist, 
even he sometimes has "no idea which one does what." 
Moreover, he said, as they all have different contact 
information and points of access, "finding them is kind 
of difficult." After the workshop, PHEs hand out UHS 
magnets listing a few resources for quick reference. It's 
the least they can do to attack the problem. 

Maybe Maya misplaced the magnet. Maybe she never 
received it. Regardless, it's not in her room. While she 
enjoyed the PHE's Connections workshop Doherty 
had termed a "failure," Maya couldn't recall much else 
about it. "I just remember that everyone in that room 
30 
was laughing the entire time," she said. And why should 
she have paid closer attention? She felt she'd been lucky 
to receive a pretty thorough sex education in high school, 
and that Connections had merely rehashed old material. 
"I feel like I knew all of this stuff when I was taking tests 
on it," she said. ('But despite all that, no~ that I'm actually 
in the sit~ation and actually have to deal with it, I have no 
idea what to do." As a PHE, Schmidt sees this response 
far too often. "We hope the workshops aren't too 
frustratingly boring for those who know everything," he 
reasoned, ."and at least informative for those who don't." 
·so wh~t is taken in? Maya's knowledge of the services 
offered by UHS was limited. "I'm guessing you can 
get emergency contraception?" she said. "I'm not sure." 
She remembered hearing about a new rape crisis hotline 
from Connections, but wasn't sure if she could even 
get birth control pills at UHS. "I feel like I'm new at 
being an adult, and being sexually active," she explained. 
((The overwhelming feeling is kind of excited, and really 
co'nfused, about what it's like." The combination of 
sentiments she exposed anticipation, anxiety, and, above 
all, confusion made one thing clear: Maya needed more 
than a simple immunization . 

ne resource that might help students like Maya if 
only they knew about it is Sex Counseling Services, 
a program at UHS offered by the Mental Hygiene 
department. The program is little-known at Yale; its only 
mention ·on the UHS website is a two-word reference 
buried on the Mental Hygiene page. 

The office of sex counselor Dr. Philip Sarrel is tucked 
away in a quiet corner of UHS's third floor, where he can 
be found one day a week. In his seventies, he is nearing 
retirement, but the subdued quiet of his office belies the 
boisterous history of his career at Yale. After training in 
gynecology at Yale during the '60s, Sarrel joined the Air 
Force and was briefly stationed near Massachusetts's Five 
Colleges. There, he and his wife first developed the notion 
of an undergraduate course on human sexuality. With no 
credits and no grades 
really no requirements at all 
the 
unprecedented class ·was entirely for students' personal 
benefit. 

The Sarrels piloted "Topics in Human Sexuality" at 
Mt. Holyoke, Amherst, and Smith. When they debuted 
the course at Yale, Battell Chapel was the only venue 
large enough to seat the 1200 students who enrolled. In 
addition to a weekly lecture and evening film series, 
the Sarrels organized up to eighty discussion groups 
of twelve students, each led by two students, one male 
and one female, who had taken the class before. While 
"Topics" discussed what now seems like traditional sex 
ed fare 
"Contraception and Abortion" and "Pregnancy 
and Birth" 
they also included more unconventional 



**Title: Sex at Yale**
**Author: Veronica Madrigal**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
l 
so muc 
securzng 
I 
ave 
trou 
e 
oses o 
• t ree 
sa ter zt 
subjects like "Sex as a Medium of 
Exchange." What ''Topics" students 
were seeking and what the Sarrels 
attempted to offer was rote biology 
as it applied to human relationships; 
facts as they applied to feelings. On 
the cover of their book above an 
abstract design of a flower in bloom, 
is the title: Sexual Unfolding. It is, 
they write, the "process ... by which 
some young people form that aspect 
of their identity we call the sexual." 
The course ran for 28 years. 
Sarrel attributed the advent of 
"Topics" and the Sex Counseling 
Service to the cultural atmosphere of 
the early '70s. In Connecticut, laws 
that made contraception _ illegal and 
banned sex on Sundays were finally 
revoked by the state legislature. "It 
was very much a 'spirit of the times' 
thing," he explained. 

This is not to say that the program 
wasn't wildly controversial. Under 
the Sarrels' 
guidance, 
a 
group 
of students (boldly named the 
"Committee on Human Sexuality") 
were soon inspired to write an 
informational pamphlet for 
the 
student body. Titled" Sex and the Yale 
Student," the 64-page book outlined 
everything from the condom-on-
a-banana basics of sex-ed to a 
comprehensive guide of Yale's sexual 
health resources, with- instructions 
on what to do and where to turn 
in every foreseeable circumstance. 
"Sex and the Yale Student" was such 
a success that even former Yale 
President Kingman Brewster proudly 
February 2007 
kept copies stacked on a table in his 
Hillhouse home. Just past the first 
page's delightful inscription 
"We 
all get by with a little help from our 
friends ... " 
the pamphle~ contained 
a passage declaring that _its readers 
were "privileged in that you have 
access to information that some 
would... have given their lives for 
in previous times." The authors 
probably thought easy access to 
this information was assured for all 
future students. 

Sadly, this was not the case. The last 
edition of "Sex and the Yale Student" 
(later simply "Sex at Yale") was 
printed around 1996, the last year the 
Sarrels taught "Topics" before taking 
a joint sabbatical. "There was a sense 
that the society was picking up the 
role we played," Sarrel remembered. 
"Now I have some other thoughts 
about it." When they had gone, the 
program floundered. The money 
to produce the pamphlet, formerly 
. freely distributed to every incoming 
freshman thanks to a five-dollar fee 
collected from "Topics" attendees, 
was now nowhere to be found. 
Sarrelloves the idea of resurrecting 
the Yale-specific pamphlet, and even 
received preliminary approval for a 
new, online version from UHS. Its 
reintroduction, 
however, 
would 
require the help of a corrunitted 
group of students. "Remember," he 
says, "all the power behind this [was 
because] Yale responded to the voice 
of its students. It may not seem that 
way, butifstudentswantsomething ... '' 

n Halloween, I was set to meet 
with Maya one last time, but I 
felt like I had nothing left to offer her. 
I'd spent the end of October on the_ 
phone, calling around New Haven 
for clinics that might be able to give 
her at least one dose of Gardasil 
before 
Thanksgiving 
break less 
than a month away 
but to little avail. 
The vaccine at last became available 
at UHS on Monday, October 30th. 
There was no fanfare when it hnally 
appeared. And contrary to my 
gynecologist's assurances, I wouldn't 
have heard about its availability at all 
if I hadn't pestered Immunizations 
to keep me on a call-list for those 
awaiting the vaccine . 

For Maya, though, immunization 
seemed practically beside the · point. 
She kept mentioning "mixed feelings" 
and "anxiety," and her smiles seemed 
forced. I'd known there wasn't a 
strict commitment, that she'd been 
vaguely seeing other people, that he 
wasn't her boyfriend per se. "I don't 
want to let him down, but it's a lot 
of pressure," she said. In a situation 
fraught with many pressures, I 
thought the pressure of navigating 
Yale's buried sexual health resources 
shouldn't have to be one of them. 

Once, Dr. Sarrel told me of a 
doctor he met at a clinic in Stockholm, 
where 
sex 
education 
starts 
in 
kindergarten. He had remarked to 
her how much more advanced her 
country's approach to sex education 
seemed to be. He didn't think he'd 
ever see that in the U.S., at least not 
in his lifetime. 

"People waste so much time on 
sex," she told him. "If they knew 
what sex was all about, they could 
spend all that energy on something 
else." 

Veronica Madrigal, a senior in 
Timothy Dwight College, is on the 
staff ofTNJ. 


**Title: The Panic Room**
**Author: Patrick Hayden**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

The Panic Room 
. 
Abandon all hope, ye who enter here. 
by Patrick Hayden 
32 
' 
the intimidation begins with a . 
package bearing your name AND a 
frightening red stamp: "CONFI-
DENTIAL." You, the unfortunate 
recipient;' have been summoned to meet 
with the Executive c ·ommittee of Yale 
College 
"Excomm." Nowyoumustpre-
pare a statement, schedule a meeting, and 
choose attire that conveys sober remorse. 
Accompanied by a single ally your col-
lege dean you will ascend to SSS 41 0, an 
unlocked conference room in one of Yale's 
busiest buildings. While the room seems 
an unlikely setting for a show-down be-
tween old-boy tradition and youthful re-
sistance, this mundane space soon devel-
ops into the scene of a stifling inquisition. 

The , informal waiting area outside 
41 O's mahogany doors is lit by a skylight 
barred by a metallic grid. A member of 
Excomn1 will · eventually appear at the 
door and usher you into the room, where 
you will face anywhere from three to 
nine committee members, seated around 
an enormous, worn wooden table that 
stretches an imposing fifte~n feet long 
and five feet wide. There are fifteen aged 
chairs, most of which will stay empty. On 
the side of the table facing the door sits 
the Coordinating Group of the Executive 
Committee: Professor Paul Bloom, Dean 
Jill Cutler, and Dean Joseph Gordon. 

In this harsh venue of judgment, the 
air remains uncomfortably quiet. Gaze 
upwards, and you will observe a beam 
ceiling resembling a maht>gany cage. The 
Excomm room is impeccably clean, with 
a sterile air of authority. The thirty-by-
thirty foot space features a barren, unused 
fireplace and a tattered oriental rug. A 
few blemishes mar the traditional decor. 
At a table in the corner, four carafes sport 
tackyorange" 
ICA COFFEE" la-
bels and a shoddy plastic container holds 
THE NEw JouRNAL 


--- Page 33 ---

~~ 
~-~---------
white napkins with the bold orange and purple "DUNKIN 
DONUTS, logo. 

ITH STERN PORTRAITS AND AN ADVERSARIAL SEAT-
ING arrangement, the room is a manifestation of the 
I t , .._ 
power ~hat 
,Y;~~ have been accused of usurping. The chair 
pulled out for you has a stiff back that demands a flawless 
postur~; ·shoulders back and chest out. According to Dean 
Cutler, the room serves as another disciplinary judge. c'The 
room itself is the key," she explains. c'The people are hu-
mane, but the room is intimidating." A student member of 
the committee also argues that appearing before Excomm 
is "a punishment in itself ... [The room] should convey the 
unlimited power of the judicial body." A few years ago, 
administrators · discussed moving Excomm to the Dean's 
office on the :first floor of the building but voted against 
it. Dean Cutler describes how Excomm decided that the 
" 
-
more modern space was not intimidat-
ing enough. ccwe like the intimidation." 

This space also wracks the nerves 
of the judges themselves. Oil paintings 
of Astronomy Professor Charter Smith 
Lyman (Yale Class of 1837) and Engi-
neering Professor Augustus Jay Dubois 
(1849-1915) rest on either side of the 
room:~ doors. In his portrait, Dubois 
stares away from the painter -(and the 
Committ~e). He holds a pen and glasses 
while brooding over the papers before 
him. With his lips pursed and his eyes 
set, Dubois seems to announce himself 
as anot~~r judge of the transgressor. The aged pastor Ly-
man who gazes toward the doors with icy blue eyes, ghost-
ly skin, an4 wispy remnants of a beard, exuding moral au-
thority and Puritan strength. These judges have seen it all: 
everything from the relentless persecution of bootleggers 
during Pro~ibition to condemnations of students abusing 
the Internet. 

While early disciplinary procedures were, in Dean 
Cutler's words, "characterized by a lack of recognition 
for the rule of law," student pressure in-the 1960s forced 
Excotrun into new levels of transparency and accessibility. 
With the addition of student representatives and the annual 
publication of Exconun proceedings, the mysterious disci-
plinary body has been brought to the public eye. In Dean 
Cutler's view, this growing belief that student transgres-
sions should be understood as breaches of community trust 
has led to a moreopen system of punishment. ccYale re-
gards itself as a community,, she said, cc and you have to 
answer to the community.,, Punishment has increasingly 
been seen as educational. ccMost people [summoned by 
Excomm] have done stupid things with huge repercus-
sions,, she says. ccYale is often their first community 
experience, and they need to :figure out how to behave 
in a community." Lest Excomm seem anything less than 
· 
terrifying, she adds, cc Our hearts don't bleed for them." 

For some of its victims, the process offers a perverse 
thrill. Reflecting on his experience, a recent Excomm 
servivor explains, ccl kind of liked it. It was an interesting 
experience to have under my belt like wow, a chance 
to see backdoor bureaucracy that most don't get to see." 
He boldly relates the experience of Excomm 'cto being _ 
tapped into a secret society. [It's] a thrilling chance to see 
the secrecy of Yale,, Another recently Excomm-ed stu-
dent also enjoyed the exclusivity of 
the tribunal. celt's unknown territory, 
and it's exciting to see in person." 

LONGER BITTER ABOUT HIS 
JUDGMENT, the first student 
speaks positively about the room. 'cl 
like that this is Excotrun. You are at 
Yale 
not a shitty corporate office. 
Excomm is so Yale and so intense." 

Perhaps Excomm is a reward as well 
as a punishment, as the bold students 
who resist the constriction of tradi-
tional policies find themselves in the 
system,s mysterious yet entrancing underbelly. The ac-
cused students who fill this space of Puritan vindictive-
ness may have hoped to be there all along, to push past 
the ostensible rules of a well-oiled university machine 
and see the invisible forces that have driven it for so 
long. One student admits that, a year before his trial, he 
had surreptitiously explored SSS in search of the room. 
ccThere,s another way to get in, you know," he offers. 
'cThere,s a window through the bathroom, and you can 
climb onto a balcony and into Excomm at night." 
Patrick Hayden, a junior in Timothy Dwight College, is 
on the staff of TN]. 
33 



**Title: Unfolding a Global Village. A Nativity of Disaster Relief on the Divinity School Quadrangle**
**Author: Ben Sachs**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
last semester, on a Tuesday night during reading
week, while most undergrads were partying or
attempting to write papers, a village was erected
in one hour at th~ Yale Divinity School. Like a white
beacons of architectural altruism, the ephemeral village
shone in the night as the hymns of the Advent service
were chanted around a campfire. The five Global Vil-
lage Shelters were each assembled in a matter of min-
utes by a team of four students. Five paper laminate
houses, structures previously used in disaster relief
efforts in Grenada, Pakistan and Afghanistan, stood
in stark contrast to the Jeffersonian classicism of the
Sterling Divinity Quadrangle. They lent the tradition-
al Christmas creche an air of activist fervor .


The installation, which will stand through the end
of February, is the brainchild of Judith Dupre. A stu-
dent at the Yale Divinity School and Institute of Sacred
Music and a writer of architectural criticism, Dupre was
inspired by the Museum of Mode'rn Art's October 2005
exhibition, Safe: Design Takes on Risk, which included the
Global Village Shelters. To visually address "the housing
crisis facing a huge swath of the world's population," she
organized the display using shelters designed by Dan
Ferrara and Mia Ferrara Pelosi, a father-daughter indus-
trial design team from Morris, Connecticut .


ccMost people do not even realize that disaster re-
lief is a market," says Ferrara Pelosi. But the ccmarket"
to aid displaced populations is a growing sector both
here and abroad; she hopes that the installation will call
attention to this trend and "allow people to open their
minds and think actively about solutions."


Dupre intends to extend this educational goal be-
yond Yale and . New Haven after the exhibition closes.
celt was important for me that these wonderfully designed
shelters, the quintessential image of a simple house, have
another life once the Divinity School installation con-
cludes," she ~ays. The five shelters will be donated to
a hodgepodge of individuals and charitable institutions


in New York and Connecticut, including a church, an
installation artist, and the film department of a com-
munity college.


Easier to assemble than most Ikea furniture, the
houses are made from Tri-Wall, a biodegradable lami-
nate of corrugated cardboard and glue. This unique
material allows the units to be shipped flat and assem-
bled by unskilled labor in a manner evocative of open-
ing a pop-up book. In a matter of minutes, the houses
unfold into three dimensions to become streamlined
paper miniatures of the American single family home.


Despite their dreamlike appearance, the boxy
white shelters are explicitly utilitarian. To be effective,
the homes must be easy to assemble, environmentally
responsible, economical to ship, and· able to provide
basic privacy and safety. "It is important to design for
the inhabitant," Pelosi says, ccto always keep in mind
that you are creating a temporary home, something
that will give the user a building block to start over,
something that will provide some comfort in times of
extreme duress."


The structures are wind and fire-resistant and can
be easily customized to suit different environments.
Recipients can paint the exteriors, cut holes into the
cardboard for ventilation, and even convert the tempo-
rary shelters into permanent dwellings by laying bricks
against their frames. Such adaptability defines a new
era of mobile architecture for use in disaster-stricken ·
areas across the globe.


Pelosi emphasizes that appearance is not a prior-
ity. "I have found," she says,"that as a designer you
place focus on aesthetics but as a problem solver this
takes a back seat." In The Poetics of Space, Gaston
Bachelard defines the house,s presence as the psycho-
logical shelter which allows one to daydream in peace.
"For our house is our corner of the woild ... our first
universe, a real cosmos in every sense of the word. If
we look at it intimately, the humblest dwelling has
beauty." The beauty of these houses lies in their abil-
ity to restore to displaced persons the sense of their
own bodies as the center of the world around them.


The installation on the Sterling Divinity Quadrangle
remincfs its visitors of the sheltees role as a microcosm,
a place to dwell and dream.


pragmatic structures are beautiful for the way
they distill the basic symbolic elements that con-
stitute a conventional house. The door framing almost


suggests a front porch, and the hipped
roof evokes the archetypal American
Foursquare house, popularized in the
early twentieth century mail order
catalogs of companies such as Sears
and Montgomery Ward. From 1908
through the 1930s, prospective hom-
eowners could order house-building
kits and construct their own homes
in new suburbs. In 2006, these flat-
packed paper houses materialized in
the same way, to grant their inhabit-
ants the security to dream of a bet-
ter future. For the victims of disaster
relief, home begins as an image and
a box.


''Most of us here in New Ha-
ven are far removed
geographically,
emotionally, · intellectually from
the daily r~ality faced by those in
need of such shelters," Dupre says.
"I hope the installation will move
people to think globally and act on
behalf of the homeless."


Undergraduates don't have to
walk by the Divinity School Quad-
rangle for reminders . of the psycho-
logical and physical comforts basic
shelter provides; Yalies witness home-
lessness on a daily basis. The juxtapo-
sition of these shelters and the needy
in New Haven leads one to hope that
the structures might go beyond their
strictly expositional purpose.


"There are no plans for anyone
to live in these shelters," Dupre says.
"We invited several dozen churches
in New Haven to consider taking
a unit for themselves, but have yet
to hear back from them." Despite
their resemblance to the American
single family home, the possible use
of the Global Village Shelters to re-
lieve the local homeless population
would be severely limited; Tri-Wall
can't weather a tough New England
winter. Still, one can't help but hope
that they will not stay empty forever.
For those in need, even the humblest
dwelling can be a cosmos of hope.
Benny Sachs, a sophomore in Ezra
Stiles College, is on the staff ofTNJ.



**Yale as a target for terrorists**
**Author: Ben Lasman**
**Page number(s): 37-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
e 
ew 
aven 
• 
• 1n 
Yale as a target for terrorists. 
by Ben Lasman 
February 2007 
utside the heavy double-doors of the Ezra Stiles dining 
hall, a group of students stood with their arms crossed 
in weak impersonations of bouncers. The staff at last 
November's Girltalk concert stamped hands, collected 
donations for the Neighborhood Music School, and tried to turn 
away hordes of intoxicated Yalies from the overcrowded event, but 
with a shrugging concession from the hired policeman, finally gave 
in and granted access to the surging crowd. 

Though a staff member myself, I could hardly feign confidence 
as I faced the rising tide of staggering, half-drunk students. Despite 
my calm demeanor and authoritative, wide-legged stance, I could 
envision nothing but disaster everywhere I looked. What if the salad 
bar and microwave tucked into a darkened corner suddenly burst 
into flames, spraying molten debris and crisped produce onto the 
packed audience? The students entering Stiles seemed less like my 
fellow classmates than lambs to the slaughter potential corpses 
whose remains I would have to catalog. Why, in the midst of such a 
thriving event, was I possessed by such a paralyzing sense of dread? 
I had purchased the insurance. I was the unlucky volunteer 
who had bought a coverage package through Yale University's Of-
fice of Risk Management. Created to address, among other concerns, 


the loss or damage of personal prop-
erty, the office subcontracts policies 
for campus events through the U r-
mia Insurance Company. U rmia's 
website shows cheerful photographs 
of trim motivational speakers and 
children playing soccer to encour-
age one to buy coverage for any-
thing from a debutante ball to a box-
ing match with an easy credit card 
payment. Should some ·over-eager 
grinding lead to serious injury on 
the dance floor, or should a fire sud-
denly ignite onstage, we would be 
covered: The event was insured for 
over a million dollars' worth of dam-
ages. All of the liabilities covered in 
the insurance document were specif-
ically enumerated, save one striking 
exception: Terrorism Risk Insurance 
Act (TRIA). Instead of specifying a 
payment limit, the column offered 
an ominous summary: "Included." 

As the evening wound down 
and sweaty concert-goers streamed 
toward the exits, the other staff 
members smiled and congratulated 
each other on a job well done. As my 
peers celebrated, I sighed with relief 
knowing that no one had suffered any 
injuries to speak of except, perhaps, 
those in the front row, whom Girl-
talk, a.k.a. Greg Gillis, had doused 
with beer. Although I was proud of 
the work we had done, as the rest of 
the crew packed up and disappeared 
into the night I wondered what would 
have happened if the policy's final 
clause had come into play. While no 
one shrank from the responsibility of 
keeping excited freshmen off stacked 
tables, how could the staff have countered an armed posse of political dissi-
dents or defused a time bomb wired to the audio-visual equipment? I suppose 
my fears of a terrorist attack at a Girltalk concert seemed paranoid and absurd. 
But having paid several hundred dollars to defray the potential cost of pre-
cisely such an occurrence, I had a vivid sense of how close disaster was. After 
a night as risk-assessor, I had lost my easy sense of security at Yale. 

s farfetched as my premonitions of bedlam might seem, they were not 
entirely unfounded. Over the past four decades, four bombs have ex-
ploded at Yale. In 1971, at the height of the New Haven trials of Black Pan-
thers Bobby Seale and Ericka Huggins, two devices detonated in the base-
ment of the Ingalls Ice Rink. No one was harmed, and the perpetrators were 
never identified. ''In the 1960s and 70s there was some terrorism directed at 
universities," explains History Professor Beverly Gage. "A lot of national 
groups criticized the institutions for colluding with the government and the 
military." Indeed, during the Seale trial, Black Panthers stayed in Yale dormi-
tories and protested with students against the ongoing prosecution. Incensed 
by the "war" they believed the FBI was waging against radical groups like the 
Black Panthers and the Weathermen, Yalies clashed with the police and the 
National Guard in the name of intellectual and ideological fr~edom. Against 
the backdrop of the Vietnam War, American universities were symbols of 
both institutional oppression and individual expression. The two bombs at 
the hockey rink were aimed not at the students, but at the Institution. 

Two decades years later, Ted Kaczynski saw Yale as an institutional 
Moloch, a symbol of capitalist society's descent into technological depen-
dency and environmental degredation. In 1993, the U nabomber mailed an 
explosive device to the Watson Hall office of Computer Science Professor 
David Gerlernter. Although Gerlernter was not killed by the blast, he sus-
tained permanent damage to his eye and hand. Kaczynski, who was appre-
hended three years later in Montana, is currently serving a life sentence for 
this and for other bombings . 


Most recently, on May 21st, 2003, 
at 4:38 p.m., an explosion rocked the 
library of the Yale Law School in the 
middle of its exam week, only days 
before Commencement, and one 
day after President Bush had raised 
the nation's threat level to "Orange." 
Though the bomb caused no injuries, 
it destroyed several rare books and 
prompted an eight-day investigation 
by the FBI's Joint Terrorism Task 
Force. On May 30th, the Law School 
reopened with an official statement 
that the occurrence did not "indicate 
or hear the marks of an international 
terrorist incident." The bombing re-
mains unsolved. 

It also stands largely forgotten. 
When discussing the incident with 
current students, the few who do 
recall the explosion have only vague 
recollections of reading about it in 
the news. The blast occurred at a 
time when most undergraduates had 
already left for summer vacation. 
Still, it seems troublesome that at a 
place as historically-literate as Yale, 
the Law School bombing has nearly 
vanished into obscurity and apathy. 
To unravel the mystery enshrouding 
the 2003 explosion, we must ask the 
question: What does Yale represent 
to terrorists in the 21st century? 

"You can never anticipate what 
will happen or when," suggests Mar-
tha Highsmith, Deputy Secretary 
and Director of Security programs 
at the University. Her staff moni-
tors campus alarms, oversees the 
construction of new buildings, and 
communicates with federal agencies 
such as the FBI and the Secret Ser-
vice to remain abreast of any poten-
tial threats. 

ccAfter 9/11, we conducted a 
comprehensive review of all facilities 
that might pose a potential threat to 
the larger community," she explains, 
"places like labs with hazardous ma-
terials." After this review, the Office 
of the Secretary installed the now-
ubiquitous electronic ID readers on 
doors and gates across the U niver-
sity and revised its emergency plans. 



**Title: Yale's Security Measures and the Definition of Terrorism**
**Author: Ben Lasman**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
·So what does warrant
the title o terrorism?
certain acts, how are
we to de ne
''We · worked with people in at-risk
facilities, figuring who gets in and
out and with what," Highsmith de-
scribes. "We now are at a constant
level of preparation. If the govern-
ment raises its threat assessment, we
review what that means for us and
adapt our procedures as necessary."
Faced with the daunting responsibil-
ity of safeguarding roughly 12,000
students and faculty as well as mul-
tibillion dollar assets, Highsmith
makes no concessions about the
current state of world affairs. "The
world has become a more dangerous
place since 9/11," she posits, "But do
I think Yale has become a safer place
since then? I do. We have not elimi-
nated crime nobody has but bur-
glaries are down, violence is down,
and people feel like their community
.
"
1s more secure.
If a· terrorist attack had oc-
curred at the November concert, the
Office of Risk Management would
have processed the claim and direct-
ed it toward the federal government
for consideration under the Terror-
ism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA). The
law, signed by President Bush in
November of 2002 and extended in
~ ,
2005, allows the Treasury to defray
90% of the cost of any damage done
to private property by a "Certified
Act of Terrorism." Due for review
by December 31st of this year, TRIA
is intended to supplement the in-
sufficient capacity of private com-
panies to cover damages incurred
by large-scale acts of terrorism. In
order to be "certi:fi ed," the incident
must have been intended to harm
40
human life, infrastructure, or prop-
erty, and must be carried out by or
in the name of foreign interests for
the express purpose of alte~ing gov-
ernmental policy through coercion
or violence against civilians.

Just how massive, then, must
these strikes be in order to secure
government aid? s<? massive that
the bombing at the Yale Law School,
which scorched a ceiling, demolished
a wall separating two classrooms,
and crushed the cabinets of the
alumni reading room, thus sending
rubble and debris tumbling d-own a
stairwell into an open portion of the
library, did not qualify for TRIA aid.
"We paid for the damage through our
regular insurance channels," relates
Marjorie Lemmon, the University's
Risk Manager. · "The explosion was
deemed an act of vandalism."

So what does warrant the title
of terrorism? If the federal govern-
ment recognizes only certain acts,
how are we to define or prepare for
future acts of violence?

Several months after the con-
cert, I called the New Haven branch
of the FBI to inquire . into the bu-
reau's stance on the local threat of
terrorism. How likely were vre ,t~ get
hit? And what could I
an Elm City
citizen do to stop it? I had found
the number of the office's Media
Representative, Speci~l Agent Victo-
ria Woods, on the branch's webpage.
After a couple of suspenseful rings, a
pinched female voice int.onecJ on the
'
other end. "New Haven FBI. How
;
~
j
may I help you?" After explaiping
,
... "'
my interest, I was placed on hold,
and, some thirty seconds later, con-
nected to the press office. I reached
an answering machine which gave
me another number, which led to
another answering machine: "Thank
you for calling the pre~s ~~fie~ of the
New Haven FBI. We are not here to
take your call right now. Please leave
your message and we'll respond · to
your inquiry as soon as possible."

I wanted to talk to the FBI
about my apocalyptic visions that
Yale would be blown up. After all,
we had educated the President so


**Title:  A Celebratory Concert**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 41**

A celebratory concert honoring musicologist Kerala J. Snyder, author of Dieterich
Buxtehude: Organist in Liibeck, on the occasion of the tercentenary of the composer's
death. Featuring performances by Yale faculty and students (rom Yale College, Yale School
of Music, and Yale Institute of Sacred Music.

Tuesday, February 27~ 2007
6:00PM
Dwight Memorial Chapel
Old Campus
Reception will follow at jonathan Edwards College Great Hall.
L
V :a-
.E
c



**Title: Juvenile Justice Reform in Connecticut**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 43-44**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The exterior of New Haven Academy, a 
small charter school in Hamden. 
E
arlier this month, I stood in front of a high-school 
class and tried my best to make eye contact. But 
high-school was nerve-wracking enough the first 
time around. I started out like any new kid: I made a joke 
about not being able to find a date. It got a decent laugh 
(apparently, it didn't seem that implausible). Then, armed 
with facts, figures, and handouts on juvenile justice reform, 
I asked these 27 New Haven teenagers to help me organize 
in support of a bill to change what I view to be one of the 
most unfair judicial policies in the country. 
I explained what has always shocked me: Connecticut 
is one of only three states that automatically charges six-
teen and seventeen-year-olds as adults for any crime they 
commit (New York and North Carolina are the other two). 
Connecticut also sends more juveniles to prison (383 last 
year) than any other state. This policy disproportionately 
affects those already at risk: kids with untreated emotional 
disabilities whose parents have them arrested because they 
can't afford psychological treatment; kids on parole who 
go to jail for statutory offenses like chronic truancy; wards 
of the state who run away from foster homes (technically 
a violation of a court order and, hence, an incarcerable of-
fence). The list goes on. 

The issue has always seemed morally clear to me. 
There are children in prison-some in solitary confinement 
for 23 hours a day-for crimes so minor that the whole 
February 2007 
thing would seem like a sick joke if it weren't true. 
But I still found it difficult to explain this outrage to 
sixteen and seventeen-year olds-the very group the 
policy affects. 

New Haven Academy is a small charter high 
school housed in a bland glass box of a building in 
Hamden. The curriculum is experimental, and my 
student audience was working on an interesting se-
nior project: They had to choose an issue of social 
importance and organize around it. With the assis-
tance of a Yale faculty member, I had contacted the 
principal, explained my cause, and negotiated an 
hour of class time on a Friday afternoon to present 
the issue and discuss the fundamentals of organizing 
a social justice campaign. 

Hoping to elicit a chord of sympathy, I recited a 
long list of injustices: Connecticut is out of step with 
the rest of the nation in regards to its juvenile criminal 
policies. Unfairly, even non-violent juvenile offend-
ers in Connecticut must go through the adult justice 
system. Once convicted, they abuse from guards and 
older prisoners and are given access to neither therapy, 
drug treatment, nor the many educational resources 
offered in juvenile facilities. A felony record disquali-
fies juveniles from receiving Pell Grants for college 
and bars them from a number of jobs; juveniles tried 
as adults are more likely to be re-incarcerated than 
those tried as juveniles. 

Finding myself at the front of a classroom in-


---

• 
a 
Connecticut also 
to prison 383 last 
at risk. 
stead of behind a desk, I was forced 
to confront a question I hadn't antic-
ipated: To what extent was I encour-
aging these students to form their 
own conclusions, and to what extent 
was I leading them to mine? Who was 
I to come swooping in with statistics, 
and lecture the New Haven youth 
on what was good for them? In a city 
in which youth violence is on the 
rise, there is often little sympathy for 
juvenile offenders. "The situation is · 
bad,'' I imagined them saying. "This 
is no time for your statistics." 

I 
was expounding on the 
long-term benefits of juvenile 
as 
opposed to adult detention facili-
ties 
when one student raised his 
hand and told me that, according to 
his friend who was recently released 
from juvie, kids there have access to 
Playstation 3 and can curse out their 
guards and nothing happens to them. 
He wondered how juvenile inmates 
are supposed to learn right from 
wrong if they can do whatever they 
want without consequences. With a 
handful of printouts and no actual 
experience in a juvenile detention 
center, I didn't know how to answer. 

A fellow organizer came to my res-
cue, explaining that the student's idea 
that prison should "reform" inmates 
through harsh treatment is an ex-
ample of "deterrence" the idea that 
if you make prison really unpleasant, 
people will be less likely to commit 
future crimes. Pointing to a handout, 
she told him that, if he looked half-
way down the page, he would see 
that statistics prove the ineffective-
ness of deterrence, especially among 
44 
juveniles. Just look: Juveniles placed 
in prison with hardened adult of-
fenders are several times more likely 
to commit crimes once released. 

Another student chimed in. He 
had heard that kids in prison have to 
join gangs, and that once you're in a 
gang, you're in it for life; that a lot 
of kids who come in for small-time 
stuff leave beholden · to some re-
ally dangerous people. While I had 
never heard of this · specific dilemma, 
based on my experience watching 
films and TV shows about prison, 
it seemed pretty plausible. One girl 
says that her cousin just got out of 
prison, where he'd been saved by the 
Lord. Now he goes to church every 
Sunday. I didn't know what to do 
with that, so I just nodded. 

All the while, . I was thinking 
that I didn't ·have the authority to 
lecture anyone let alone students 
whose friends and siblings have been 
affected by the injustice I was fight-
ing. I kept expecting someone to 
jump up and expose me as a fraud; 
''He'd never even been to Connecti-
cut before his freshman year. He's 
never even seen the inside of a prison . 
He doesn't know anyone inside. He 
has no personal stake in this at all." 

And they'd be right 
I am just 
an outsider. My confidence wavered, 
and I realized how removed I was 
from this traumatic system of in-
justice. But distanced as I may have 
seemed, I remembered being sixteen 
and sitting in a classroom like this, 
enraged by the unfairness I saw ev-
erywhere. Maybe I didn't have any 
personal stake, and maybe this whole 
"fair" thing was just my own sense of 
justice acting up. Nonetheless, it was 
why I was there. 

We spent the last fifteen min-
utes of class brainstorming a plan to 
change the current law. Any ideas? 
No? Well, I said, at Yale we've been 
calling legislators (it's really easy, 
and we'll pass out their contact in-
formation after class) and giving 
presentations to other organizations 
that might be interested in help-
ing us raise awareness. I told them 
we could start by figuring out what 
places in their communities might 
be interested in rallying around 



the issue. The students had ideas: 
James works with the NAACP, Pe-
ter thought Myspace.com could be a 
good place to advertise, Jess said. that 
her church might be interested, and 
Sylvia wasn't quite sure, but defi-
nitely wanted to help. We finished 
by passing out signup sheets asking 
them to fill in their contact informa-
tion and list things they might do for 
the campaign. 

The afternoon went more 
smoothly than I had anticipated. 
We're still in touch with the school 
and plan to· work with them in the 
future. I was relieved that no one had 
called my bluff. It was probably evi-
dent that I knew far less about things 
like prison and youth crime than 
some of the kids who had shared 
their personal stories. I like to think 
that, as transparently inexperienced 
as I may have been, the students for-
gave and encouraged me. It was a 
Friday afternoon and most of them 
were probably more concerned with 
the coming weekend. Still, I thought, 
maybe I had taught them a little about 
organizing, about social change, and 
about making a difference. Maybe I 
wasn't a total fraud after all. 

Class was dismissed. The teens 
left for their weekend, and I was left 
with my statistics, my angst, and my 
hope that things could change.-
Nick Handler, a sophomore in Ezra 
Stiles College, is Business Manager of 
TNJ. 
.. 
. 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
.. • 
.·._ 
. 
' 
.. 
B : ·· . · ··: with of 
-: 
: 
. :: . 
r thers 
:~ 
Kimes 
' · that the meek 
s 
· t the earth never 
.-. 
~ . ·-
~w..rr--···~ 
:-.-.. · . 
... 
tened and 
·. ·• .. . -
.. • from vacation, 
Gabe waited ·· > ·• ·. erv · ·. .. anticipation, 
like a s 
..... · 
.... ! • ·· .. . in a house 
of utisus 
. every night like a 
> • plans for 
. :-. 
· •·com- : 
. . 
played Ris • · .· .. · .. . :. classic board game, 
of 
,. .... ~ · . "Conquest [of] the 
,, 
· · les 
in duplicitous be-
trayal, a · · 
tion where cunning 
and 
off. In short, it's 
I 
the perf · 
students ·· 
Bu , : 
about 
Tree 
game 
gtant 
spoken 
ptres to 
hobbies 
exottc J 
Yale an 
. . . ·: : 
. . . . 
',·. . . . th~ ~ild~ •·· •• !. D 
Harwood , jn, : 
face 
JI; ·.of 0 ld Campus .• ·•• 
popular online •• ·· 
Yale like a • ... · 
a slender, soft- • 
·• ·. 
. . . 
onto 
............. •· Sam. And 
"'" : y solemn e- ............. •· keep on co 
major who as- •· •· 
I have heard 
.. people SCfYing 
, tched people sign up." Like Ja- : 
• • · · · · 
.. ·• . ·· • · •· · · .. · · • · ·. ·• · • · :· · •. .. 
from grace; a 
•, 
·. . 
· ·man e-mail 
.students to lay 
:-
•' 
.. an unsuccessful 
.· 
. ccDon't be 
tc •· hard on Scott... .··· .· ) built this re-
..... • awesome 
· . that Ijpl usin.g 
+-r inform you guys. ··• ··. 
·I· 
"'' 
~~::; 
~~;::. h 
·::::-· 
~=· ~ -
neeq}or secrery ·· ·· · .. 
games. His ·• ·• 
don't want to · 
. game because ;is 
Soldiers of Wt1tc/J~ 
rare and ··. ·•· 
for 
·· 
· great· due to 
leaks of our 
't even go to · .·· the · 
so I will not t>rmJ 
overt'tew 
:raduated in 2006 ·.•• 
college 
Let~ be real 
emaiL 
take classes in ., .• 
avenport e-mail ' ·· 
.· -· 
why are hun- · ·.· ·. 
. ...... "" ..... £ 
,. 
·~ 
* 
dreds of freshmen · 
ting for con- • 
.. · 
While 
. kilew that sorpe 
As Risk plays O:h, alli 
trol of a ficti · 
territory called •.• ·•. 
would ifllb~ace the game
1 
f~[med, generals h!ve f 
have 
"Smedresmania?" 
< · "p • ba~l~ the $me§ on:s. who ~et 
cq~,e.,£,~£,~&1?~"'S.~S.tg~ 
:rrl 
at their 
ters and await Gabe s • ' 
·. I¥ s .... ~e. geveJ:iantt<;:lpat.e.d t;e._; . ., .. ous Ptersomtes dtscovered 
statements, w 
· appear tn 
current.· """'"%!l"'otpartic1pation~'~ich ~ p~llg · one'~ . ~rowser from 
devi-
italics like the affirmations of God? 
has surpassed three thousand. Every 
permitted clli'*·pta«ment 
And why is everyone's in box clogged 
night, stude.11ts conspire vv-ith their 
ited armies, Gabe was · · ·. · 
· .· ·. to shut 
with orders to 
a few{ hours). 
· · tb defend, or 
· · · 
, 
.·. 
the 
Gabe launched 
them from other colleges. All of the 
the endeavor is deflated by its · ·. · 
A 
th 
of a. mass 
"action" takes place online, which 
medium, as revealed on · 
o 
cam . . 
(hanginga few 
isn't what Gabe initially hoped for: 
forum: 
fl · ..•... . around campus) 
a Hogwarts-esque tra~formation of 
p 
to 
first 
fiddled with the 
his headq 
floor of 
• mg on 
46 
Gabe 
map of 
online ga1ne 
back · · 
in the game., ·.·. Old 
·. . · · complete with c~lor­
of January, li~ . . fU1 felt b . .• . . . that he w~u!P change 
platfonn 
every night. 
muggy 
"It all started when I was look-
Su 
ing at the trees," he says. "I thought 
to myself wouldn't it be cool if the 
rmed a 
whole area was transformed into a 
Ca1npus 
giant game board?" 
As 
Unfortunately, Gabe is not 
New Havet4 fat-
scampering up the trees of Old Cam-
Ellen R: welch is full of nerds 
·Erin H: YALE is full of nerds~' 
Mi&hael H: Indeed~ 
M 
Kimes, a senior in Davenport 
College, is a Senior Editor oflN]



Growing New Haven's biotech industry and local economy 
Creating a vital downtown through Yale's community investment program 
Supporting New Haven public school education through partnerships 
Strengthening neighborhoods by helping Yale employees buy homes 


**Title: Yale Sustainable Food Project**
**Page number(s): 48**

THURSDAY, .MAll 29 
4:30P.M 
--
w ·EDN.ESDAY, APR 4 
4 PA-l 
MONDAY, APR 16 
4P.M 
THURSDAY, APR 26 
FRIDAY, .MAY 4 TO 
SATURDAY, ~1.AY ~ 
-
\VEDNESDAY, APR 18 
iPM 
II 
' / 
,I 
'I 
W' 
' ' 
• ] 
• • 
• . 
I' 
,Ill 
YALE SUSTAINABLE 
I. 
:.' I 
FOOD PRO ECT 
LATE SP .RING 200 
SPEAI<.ERS 
I~OOD POLICY: ADDR.:ESSING . SOCIAl. JUSTICI~ IN THI~ 
SUSTAINABLE AND LOCAL FOOD M.OVEMENT 
Panel discussion "\vith Rebecca Netnec and Sharon Reillv, 
" 
The Food Project, and Jennifer J\1cTiernan H., CitySeed 
Lins(y-(;hittenden 1.02, 63 High St 
Davenport College Ma...'>ter's Tea \Vith Erika Lesser, 
Slo\v Food. U'SA 
Davenport College Ma...'iter's Tea with Chef Ann Cooper, 
"Renegade Lt.tnch Lady'' tron1 Bt~rkcley, CA. 
PLAYING \VITH FOOD: THREE CENTURIES OF SCIENCE 
IN THE KITCH:EN 
Harold .f\.1cGee; author of ON FOOD AND COOKING; 
co-sponsored by the Centt~r for Environtnental Law and ·Policy 
and the "Plant to Plate•' seminar series, Yale Center for Bioethics' 
Genetically Modified Plants \Vorking Group 
Law Sclwol.Auditoriitnt, 127 vVall St; reception~follows 
ENVIRONMENTAL HISTORIES OF LOCAL FOOD 
AND AGRICULTURE 
Seminar \vith Qy.elques arpents de neige (\V\V\V.arpents.ca) 
Check · ·~veb site for schedule a,nd location 
FILM 
Films on Food and Agriculture: KING CORN: A DOCUMENTARY 
( 92 min); follo,ved by panel "\Vith Ian Cheney and Kurt Ellis 
~Vhitne)' Hu1na,nities Center, 53 Wall St 
Films co-sponsored by the Yale Sustainable Food Project~ C-oalition OIJ. 
Agriculture, Food, and the Environment; and Food from the Earth 
' "' 
ALL EVENTS SUPPORTED BY THE GEORGE AND SHELLY LAZARUS FUND FOR 
SUSTAINABLE FOOD AND AGRJCULTURE AT YALE 

