Publication date: November 2011
Volume: 44
Issue number: 2


**MASTHEAD**
- Publishers: Madeleine Broder, Jimmy Murphy
- Editors-in-Chief: Max Ehrenfreund, Jacque Feldman
- Managing Editors: Juliana Hanle, Aliyya Swaby
- Photo & Design Editors: Brianne Bowen, Susannah Shattuck
- Senior Editors: Jessica Cole, Helen Knight, Sara Mich
- Production Manager: Andrew Calder
- Business Director: Whitney Schumacher
- Research Director: Nicholas Geiser
- Associate Editors: Eli Mandel, Emily Rappaport
- Chief Copy Editor: Heeseung Kim
- Copy Editors: Ava Kofman, Justine Yan
- Staff Writers: Laura Blake, Rachel Lipstein
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Roger Cohn, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan  M. Clark, Constance Clement,  Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O’Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
Points of Departure - 
Profile - Small Things and Big Things - Austin Bernhardt
Snapshot - The Tinkerers - Sophia Nguyen
Critical Angle - Working Definition - Ben Kline
Endnote - Madeline Duff
FEATURES
The Great Equalizer - Kalli Angel
Bull Ridin’ Jus’ Ain’t What It Used to Be - Max Ehrenfreund
No Dumping - Juliana Hanle


**Title: Buckin’ Bulls: America’s true cowboys come to Connecticut**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 1**


**Title: Washington’s Title IX Reform**


**Title: Toxic Sludge in New Haven’s Harbor**


**Title: Small Things and Big Things**
**Author: Austin Bernhardt**
**Page number(s): 18**


**Title: The Tinkerers**
**Author: Sophia Nguyen**
**Page number(s): 22**


**Title: Working Definition**
**Author: Ben Kline**
**Page number(s): 30**


**Title: The Great Equalizer**
**Author: Kalli Angel**
**Page number(s): 47**


**Title: Bull Ridin’ Jus’ Ain’t What It Used to Be**
**Author: Max Ehrenfreund**
**Page number(s): 44**


**Title: No Dumping**
**Author: Juliana Hanle**
**Page number(s): (Not specified)**


**Title: Endnote**
**Author: Madeline Duff**
**Page number(s): 38**



**The Race for Ward 1**
**Author: Susannah Shattuck**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
4
The New Journal
The Race for 
Ward 1
               POINTS OF DEPARTURE
Susannah Shattuck
This summer, before she announced 
her candidacy for Ward 22 alderwoman, 
Jeanette Morrison went door to door 
in Dixwell, asking her neighbors what 
concerns they had about the community. 
“There’s no jobs,” they told her. But 
from the porches where she stood 
listening, she could see construction 
happening all over neighboring Ward 1 
on Yale’s campus. How could the city 
grant those zoning rights, she wondered, 
without also requiring that some of the 
area’s unemployed residents be trained 
and allowed to work on these projects? 
Only 30 percent of the people employed 
in New Haven are actually from New 
Haven, which, she argues, is “just a 
terrible statistic.” 
With 
unemployment 
rates, 
municipal layoffs, and violent crime 
all 
rising, 
frustrations 
like 
these 
are mounting across the city as the 
November 
8 
election 
approaches. 
“People just want to live decent lives,” 
Morrison said. “There’s something 
wrong.” 
In the September 13 Democratic 
primary elections, New Haven residents 
announced 
that 
they 
want 
new 
representation. Aldermanic candidates 
backed by unions, such as Morrison, 
defeated 
establishment 
candidates, 
many of them incumbents who had 
served for as long as two decades, in 
fourteen out of fifteen hotly contested 
races—despite the fact that many City 
Hall officials took a vacation day for 
last-minute canvassing. It was the first 
time in Mayor John DeStefano, Jr.’s 
tenure that a significant number of 
aldermanic candidates he had endorsed 
were defeated. “The unions kicked ass 
tonight,” DeStefano said at his own 
primary victory party at BAR on Crown 
Street. The same evening, Morrison 
recalled, “I started crying, my mom 
started crying, my friends started crying. 
Like, oh my God!”


The unions had won an important 
victory over the Democratic Party 
establishment, creating a new, dynamic 
moment in New Haven politics. Since 
early summer, DeStefano and local 
unions were assembling rival slates 
of aldermanic candidates. The mayor 
may no longer be able to count on the 
support of the aldermanic council in 
January.


On November 8, students living in 
Ward 1 will vote for a peer to represent 
them on the Board of Aldermen. While 
the labor-establishment division will 
influence the day-to-day responsibilities 
of the new alderman, neither of the 
two candidates—Sarah Eidelson ’12 and 
Vinay Nayak ’14—is officially supported 
by unions or by City Hall, and neither is 
incumbent. 


Though they’re aware of the 
signficance of the primary election, 
Eidelson and Nayak are wary of talking 
candidly about it. They are especially 
reluctant to discuss how tensions may 
affect the Ward 1 race. Certainly, neither 
wants to be categorized as belonging to 
either side. 
“I think that pro-City Hall versus 
anti-City 
Hall 
politics 
is 
entirely 
unproductive 
because 
ultimately 
whoever the aldermen are are going to 
have to work with whoever the mayor 
is,” Nayak said. He said he would be 
an “independent-minded” alderman, 
putting him in the best position to be 
effective because “when you’re less 
concerned about the other political 
dynamics that are going on, like the 
longevity of staying on the board, then 
you’re in a better position to really 
advocate for what you believe in.” 
Eidelson was equally diplomatic. “I 
think that the kind of active democracy 
and engagement happening around the 
city is exactly what we need to move 
forward in a positive direction,” she said, 
“and I think it’s great that people were 
able to elect a lot of new representatives 
who they thought would serve them 
better than their past ones have.” She 
added that the quarreling involved in 
intraparty politics is counterproductive. 
This reasoning may be inspiring, 
but it is also tactful and predictable. 
Whoever is elected to represent Ward 
1 will have to navigate these tensions 
once he or she is on the Board. In fact, 
despite their careful public distance 
from New Haven’s political dichotomy, 
Nayak and Eidelson have already 
inevitably encountered this aspect of 
the city’s politics on their paths to this 
campaign. For now, these histories are all 
constituents have to distinguish the two 
candidates.


As a freshman, Nayak worked as a 
policy assistant to the board’s Community 
Development Committee, where he 
learned about the economic plight of 
small business owners, nonprofits, and 
other community members. Eidelson 
worked with 3-year-olds at Creating 
Kids, a daycare on Wall Street, during 
her freshman year. She has spent the 
past two summers in New Haven. This 
year, Eidelson managed Sarah Saiano’s 
campaign for Ward 18 alderwoman. In 
2010, she ran the Community Voter 
Project at the Connecticut Center for a 
New Economy, a nonprofit organization 
in the city that deals with issues of 
economic justice. She went door-to-
door registering voters in Dwight, 
West River, Dixwell, and Newhallville. 
So, while Nayak has spent more time 
working with the city’s legislative and 
executive branches, Eidelson has spent 
more time in the city at large—talking 
to community members about their 
concerns and working on the campaigns 


5
November 2011
that led up to last month’s elections.  
The 
candidates’ 
divergent 
experiences have provided them with 
different skill sets and areas of expertise. 
Nayak worked on a committee headed by 
Marcus Paca, Ward 24’s establishment-
backed alderman who was just unseated 
by a union candidate. Eidelson helped 
lead last spring’s “We Are One” rally 
at City Hall, which brought together 
unions and labor rights groups, and the 
campaign she managed this summer was 
for a union-backed candidate. (Saiano 
was the only such candidate to lose 
her race on September 13.) Eidelson 
has personal relationships with Frank 
Douglass, the union-backed candidate 
and Yale dining hall staff member who 
won in Ward 2, and Jeanette Morrison, 
whose campaign she worked on last 
month. Morrison said, “The most 
important thing in local politics are 
relationships and trust, and Sarah has a 
relationship not just with me but with 
different people around New Haven.”


Publicly, the candidates portray 
themselves as being very similar, 
sometimes frustratingly so. The three 
planks of Eidelson’s platform are to 
create a New Haven where “Government 
works for the people,” “No one lives in 
fear” and “All neighborhoods are vibrant 
and inclusive.” Nayak’s points are (with 
the order manipulated for comparison’s 
sake), to “Make government more 
transparent,” “Keep us safe,” and 
“Revitalize our economy.” They both 
want to improve infrastructure, make 
the city’s streets friendlier to bicyclists 
and pedestrians, and strengthen prisoner 
re-entry programs. Each promises to be 
an accessible presence on campus.


When pressed, the candidates have 
found a convenient, respectful way of 
distinguishing 
themselves. 
Eidelson, 
a senior, says she’s “the most in touch 
with Yale students because of how 
much experience I have working with 
them already to make the changes that 
they want to see.” Nayak, a sophomore, 
points out that while Eidelson will 
graduate soon, he will be a student for 
the next two years, making him “able to 
be accessible to and interact with kids in 
the Yale community to work together on 
the solutions.” 


Their approaches to policy do vary, 
however. Nayak is extremely detailed 
and on point. When asked the same 
open-ended questions as Eidelson 
in an interview on policy matters, he 
spoke for more than three times as long. 
Hyperspecific, downloadable reports—
ready to be submitted to the board if 
he’s elected—have been on his website 
for months. He punctuates conversation 
and op-eds with appeals to refer to his 
website. Eidelson is less talkative when 
it comes to policy and has only uploaded 
some comparatively concise policy 
points to her site this month.


difference 
between 
the 
candidates is clear in their approaches 
to community policing. Both candidates 
think it’s important that the police 
department engage with residents, but 
they would execute this goal differently. 
Nayak says that his campaign is based 
on “realistic conversations [I’ve] had 
with people on the Board as well as 
people in City Hall, as far as what we 
could reasonably get done.” While he 
believes that the city should have more 
community-centered policing, he says 
it’s an internal matter for the police 
department to address. He would rather 
focus on “real solutions that the Board 
of Aldermen actually has jurisdiction 
over.” 
Eidelson said that a return to 
community-centered policing was a 
priority. Faced with the question of 
jurisdiction over policing, she brought up 
charter reform, the review and revision 
of the city government’s constitution 
completed by the Board every five years. 
(Charter reform is a favorite subject of 
Eidelson’s; Nayak didn’t mention it in 
an interview.) Currently, Eidelson said, 
the police commission that oversees the 
police department is entirely appointed 
by the mayor. This authority, she said, 
“could shift with charter reform, such 
that the people can have more direct 
power over the police force.” 
Nayak wants to work within the 
system, and Eidelson wants to reform 
it entirely. He’s more pragmatic; she’s a 
bit more romantic. It is not difficult for 
anyone who has talked to the candidates 
to understand the differences between 
them. But these differences are certainly 
not advertised. 
Ali Abarca


**Balkanization**
**Author: Emily Rappaport**
**Page number(s): 6**

6
Balkanization
It was the end of the 1970s in 
Washington, D.C., and nobody was 
buying Laine Harris’s falafel. The 
competition was fierce. “I would line 
up with all the other vendors on the 
corner—rug dealers, hash-pipe carts, 
hot-dog carts,” he recalls. When the 
boredom became unbearable, Harris 
started to perform. Raised in Alabama, 
Harris had learned Balkan folk-dancing 
in college, and at his cart he chose a 
Macedonian dance involving fancy 
footwork and towel-twirling. Later, he 
challenged himself further by chanting 
rhymes in time to the music playing 
in his head: “Hot falafel, spinach pie, 
baklava, give ‘em a try. It’s a tasty treat, 
it’s got no meat, so come on by, give it a 
try. Hot falafel and spinach pie.” People 
took notice of him and started flocking 
to his cart. Soon, he said, “I was busy 
enough that I wasn’t dancing and singing 
anymore.”  


Laine Harris and his brother Drew 
have since made their way to New 
Haven, where they’re still dancing, but 
no longer sell falafel. They lead a new 
Balkan jam the first Monday of every 
month at 7 p.m. at Café Nine on State 
Street.


“For those of you trying to have an 
intimate conversation: Well, sorry,” Drew 
announced after they finished a song on 
October 3. Half an hour into the jam’s 
third session, the patrons weren’t paying 
much attention to the music. They sat at 
the back, drinking beer, eating popcorn 
from red plastic baskets, and chatting. 
Most of the applause came from the 
musicians themselves.  


The seven instrumentalists sitting 
or standing in the lee of the stage 
launched into a lively dance tune, the 
melody carried by Drew and another 
saxophonist, who were playing in the 
aggressively nasal style favored in the 
Balkans. On the rotary trumpet, which 
looks vaguely like a horn from the Civil 
War, Laine took care of the harmony, 
keeping pace with the saxes through 
each twist and turn. A tuba player filled 
out the lower register. And beneath it all 
ran a wild river of percussion, from the 
water-like sounds of two darbukas—a 
kind of hand drum played all over the 
Near East—to the cascading booms and 
cracks of the tapan, a Balkan double-
headed bass drum strapped to the front 
of the body and played with a mallet-like 
stick in one hand and a switch in the 
other.  


The song they played had once 
been 
performed 
at 
a 
traditional 
gypsy circumcision party near Ohrid, 
Macedonia. It came to the United States 
on a cassette in the early 1980s, in the 
hands of a musician who played with the 
Harris brothers in the legendary New 
York Balkan brass band Zlatne Uste. 
Laine Harris still plays with Zlatne Uste, 
although Drew left the group to spend 
more time with his family and to focus 
on his job teaching entrepreneurship and 
business strategy at Central Connecticut 
State University. Laine works at a yoga 
center in Hamden.


What first interested the Harris 
brothers in Balkan music was girls. “As 
a shy guy looking for a date, I couldn’t 
just walk across the room to talk to 
someone,” Laine says.  Both brothers 
had taken some ballet classes, and they 
figured that, as straight guys who could 
dance, they might get lucky. So they 
began to attend folk-dance events at their 
college in Pensacola, Florida. “We got 
invited to parties, and we were pleased 
with our results,” Drew told me with a 
laugh. Years later, Laine would meet his 
wife, Jennifer Brosious, in a professional 
Balkan dance troupe in California. 


But while Laine and Drew Harris 
were date-hunting, they got seriously 
hooked on the odd meters and modes 
of Balkan music. Laine remembers 
hearing a recording by Boris Karlov—a 
man referred to as “the legend of the 
Bulgarian accordion”—and thinking 
that “this was not an accordion, this 
was a steam train.” Soon, they had 
put together a band. Their first paying 
gig was a mock Serbian wedding in 
Texas. “It was a three-day weekend, 
the appropriate amount of time for a 
wedding,” Laine said. 


All this was happening in what Drew 
calls “the golden era of folk-dancing 
in America,” which began around the 
late ’60s and was winding down by 
1980.  In that period, a folk dance with 
seventy people was considered small. 
Hundreds of enthusiasts would turn out 
at get-togethers all over North America. 
Dancers who lived in places where 
there wasn’t much of a scene would 
drive hundreds of miles for a weekend 
workshop. The Harris brothers suggest 
that the fascination with Balkan dance 
in particular came from an interest in 
cultures oppressed by Soviet rule and 
a wish to express solidarity with the 
people who lived under it.


In those years, Drew and Laine 
Harris moved from job to job. 
Drew worked as a longshoreman, a 
construction worker, and a windshield 
repairman, while Laine, besides being 
a falafel salesman and folk-dancer, was 
a fireman, a cabinet-maker, and a flight 
instructor. Since then, both brothers 
have settled in the New Haven area, and 
the golden age of folk-dancing has come 
and gone.


But Balkan music is now becoming 
increasingly hip in cities like New York 
and Montreal. On September 24, I heard 
Laine Harris playing with Zlatne Uste 
in the East Village. Since its formation 
In city politics at large, candidates 
don’t understate their differences and 
affiliations—they 
champion 
them. 
Morrison, for example, was proud to 
have served on the executive board of 
her local union. “I like unions!” she said. 
“I work for the State of Connecticut, 
and I’m part of the union.”  Morrison 
supports unions because of what they 
accomplish. “We all believe that the 
people should have a voice,” she said, 
“and that people should be given the 
same opportunities as everyone else.” 
We can hope that a more diverse 
Board of Aldermen will help achieve 
these goals, whatever the outcome of 
the Ward 1 race.



**Title: Zlatne Uste and the Balkan Music Scene**
**Author: Susannah Shattuck**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
November 2011
Sussanah Shattuck
at a week-long Balkan music workshop 
in Ashoken, New York, almost three 
decades ago, Zlatne Uste, which Drew 
describes as “a classic, Serbian-style 
brass band,” has been at the centre of the 
Balkan music community in New York 
City. At their show in September, I found 
myself dancing in a sea of Brooklyn 
hipsters as well as ladies who could’ve 
been my grandmother. Traditional circle 
dances in 11/8 time, pogoing, free-style 
grooving—we did it all.


New Haven has never had as vibrant 
a scene as New York, but the Elm City 
did have its own folk-dance boom in 
the ’70s. Every week, Hendrie Hall was 
packed, the floor shivering in time to 
Serbian, Bulgarian, and Greek rhythms. 
Now the Harris brothers are trying to 
re-establish a community around Balkan 
music and dance. “I’m hoping to tap into 
the youthful, inquisitive social ferment I 
associate with colleges and universities,” 
Laine said.


Later in the evening on October 3, 
the Harris brothers’ hope was looking 
less far-fetched than it had been earlier. 
Jennifer Brosious, Laine’s wife, and 
Bonnie Kaplan, a lecturer at the Yale 
School of Medicine, two women who 
have been folk-dancing for decades, 
joined hands and began to weave a 
Serbian line dance between the tables at 
Café Nine. I watched Kaplan’s feet—I 
have never seen sneakers moving so 
gracefully.


Soon, during a fast dance in 7/8 time 
called a rachenitsa, some of the patrons 
who had looked apathetic earlier got up 
to join. Brosious and Kaplan showed 
them when to move their feet and how 
to wave their hands in front of them 
as if they were at a Bulgarian wedding. 
As their stiletto heels fell into rhythm, 
the women began to whoop and yell 
with excitement. Drew took a wild solo. 
Afterwards, I asked Demo Rest, a Café 
Nine regular, whether he knew about 
Balkan music before that night. “This is 
the first night of my Balkanization,” he 
replied. From his grin, it looked like it 
might not be the last.
— Eric Boodman


**Title: The Clean, Green Financing Machine**
**Author: Max Ehrenfreund**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

The Clean, Green 
Financing Machine
Gov. Dannel Malloy and the state 
legislature 
overhauled 
Connecticut’s 
energy bureaucracy over the summer. 
They merged the regulatory body for 
utilities and the old environmental 
commission to create a new agency, 
the 
Department 
of 
Energy 
and 
Environmental 
Protection. 
The 
department is headed by Daniel Esty, a 
Yale University professor on leave, and 
is sometimes known by its profound 
acronym, DEEP. Malloy also established 
the Connecticut Clean Energy Finance 
and Investment Authority, which calls 
itself “the nation’s first ‘green bank.’ ” 
As a “quasi-public” agency, it has broad 
legal power not only to award grants, but 
also to make various types of loans and 
to seek investment, like a private bank.


The aim is to leverage public and 
private money to help scientists and 
entrepreneurs in Connecticut develop 
renewable, efficient sources of energy, 
and to encourage the commercialization 
and adoption of new technologies. 
“Financial institutions across the country 
have been in touch with us to try to think 
through opportunities and partnerships. 
Attracting private capital is the main goal 
here,” said David Goldberg, the green 
bank’s director of government and 
external affairs.


It may be too early to tell what 
the new authority’s impact will be, but 
if Goldberg and his colleagues are 
successful, the Leeway-Putnam building 
on Putnam Avenue in Hamden may 
offer a glimpse of what’s to come.


The supportive housing facility for 
patients with HIV and AIDS is a stucco-
sided box with bright blue metal roofing 
on the gables and awnings over the entry. 
It sits across from a vacant lot and next 
to a warehouse and garage where grass 
sprouts through cracks in the asphalt of 
the parking lot. Inside, a vent near the 
floor was quiet on a rainy September 
afternoon. A visitor wouldn’t give the 
dusty grate a second glance.


Yet energy-efficiency technology 
doesn’t always look fancy and futuristic. 
When the building’s vents are whirring, its 
heating and cooling system draws energy 
from the ground through many shallow, 
water-filled wells several feet deep. The 
system is called a geothermal or ground-
source heat pump, and it’s designed to 
meet the building’s heating and cooling 
needs more efficiently. Geothermal 
pumps can save more energy per dollar 
than solar panels, and they’ve been 
around for decades. Reducing fossil fuel 
consumption doesn’t have to mean cold 
fusion generators, acres of solar panels 
gleaming in the sunrise, or faster-than-
light travel. 


Leeway, the New Haven support 
organization for patients with HIV 
and AIDS, opened the 17-unit facility 
in Hamden last fall. The system was 
installed with a $71,000 grant from the 
Finance and Investment Authority’s 
predecessor, which did not offer loans 
to the extent that the new authority will.


“It’s had its quirks just like any other 
system, but I think it’s been working very 
well,” said Rick Ross, who oversaw the 
project for Leeway. “That, along with the 
insulation that was installed there, makes 
it a very energy-efficient building.”



**Title: POINTS OF DEPARTURE**
**Author: Katharine Knoietzko**
**Page number(s): 8**

The New Journal
              POINTS OF DEPARTURE
Katharine Knoietzko
Mark Simon, a founding partner of 
Centerbrook Architects in Centerbrook, 
Connecticut, is especially familiar with 
geothermal systems. He helped draw the 
plans for Kroon Hall, Yale University’s 
$33.5 million experiment in efficient 
building design, which uses four 1,500-
foot wells for geothermal heating and 
cooling. When I spoke to Simon, he 
was preparing to catch a flight to Ohio, 
where his firm is designing a system for a 
boys’ high school in a Cleveland suburb.


Soil and water belowground are 
insulated from seasonal temperature 
changes, and the pumps use the planet’s 
body heat to keep buildings comfortable 
inside. Ten feet down, the temperature 
in most places stays around fifty-five 
degrees Fahrenheit all year, Simon said. 
In the winter, the warmth that the soil 
groundwater 
absorbed 
during 
the summer can heat buildings. In the 
summer, water that is the temperature of 
the soil can be used to cool them down. 
Geothermal 
heat 
pumps 
are 
inexpensive 
don’t 
require 
sophisticated technology. They will 
typically pay for the cost of installation 
in five to ten years. Still, a geothermal 
heat pump can be very difficult to design. 
“There are a lot of tricky technical issues 
that need attention. Some things aren’t 
going to work the way you want them 
to,” Simon said.


The engineer designing a heat 
pump needs to consider what’s in the 
soil—mud, sand, rock, gravel, clay—as 
well as how much groundwater there is 
and whether changing seasons will affect 
the water table. The amount of heat the 
ground can absorb depends on all of 
these factors. The climate of the region 
matters as well, since when a geothermal 
pump heats groundwater and soil, they 
stay warm for a surprisingly long time. 
In a climate with hot summers and mild 
winters, Simon explained, “the ground 
over time will slowly get warmer and 
warmer.” Yet the pumps work well in 
a state such as Connecticut, with warm 
summers and cold winters.


Funding geothermal heating and 
cooling systems is only a small part of the 
new green bank’s mission. The agency 
also plans to add enough solar panels 
to Connecticut homes to generate thirty 
megawatts of electricity, and Goldberg 
said the agency’s staff expects to exceed 
that goal. Another ambition is producing 
methane, which can power electrical 
generators, by feeding agricultural waste 
to bacteria on a large scale.


Goldberg 
emphasized, 
though, 
that choosing particular technologies 
or industries to support isn’t his 
agency’s goal. It’s a familiar criticism 
of government efforts to support 
entrepreneurship. “The state didn’t 
pick a winning technology,” he said. 
“We’re going to say, ‘We got a pot of 
money, we’re looking for the lowest 
cost, ultimately, to the ratepayer.’ ” If 
the Leeway-Putnam building is any 
indication, the cheapest, most effective 
technologies in Connecticut’s clean-
energy future may be old ones that look 
surprisingly familiar.
— Max Ehrenfreund


**Title: Cut A Rug**
**Author: Hanjing Cao**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

Cut A Rug
John Kebabian’s desk is in the 
corner of the storefront, almost hidden 
behind a pile of small rugs. It lacks 
modern technological gadgets, including 
a computer. Here, John neatly records 
transactions by hand on spreadsheets 
collected in a black binder. The whole 
interior of the store has an old quality 
about it, reminding customers that 
Kebabian’s Oriental Rugs has been in 
John’s family for more than a century. 
It is clean, with hardwood floors, solid 
white walls, and a high ceiling adorned 
with a pattern of white tiles that are 
elegant in their simplicity. The plainness 
emphasizes the vibrant colors and 
chaotic patterns of the rugs.


In the back of the store sits a 
brand new 21-inch Apple desktop 
computer, which John’s wife Peggy says 
they invested in so their “Web site guy” 
can help them create and edit video 
blog posts. Every week, Peggy posts a 
short video called “Rug of the Week” 
to Kebabian’s Facebook page in which 
John tells the story of the chosen rug. 
She herself is also updating the store’s 
Web site. The new site’s launch date is 
November 1, and Peggy excitedly tells 
me it will be totally redesigned, complete 
with a virtual tour of the store.


The store’s red bricks stand out 
among the pale pink and gray and white 
of its neighbors on Elm Street, drawing 
attention to bold white paint on the side 
wall that proudly proclaims Kebabian’s, 
the name of John’s great-great uncle, 
also called John. The first John Kebabian 
was an Armenian who had attended 
Robert College, a school for expatriate 
children in the former Constantinople. 
He arrived in New Haven in 1882 as a 
Yale College student. In those days, Yale 
did not offer financial aid, so he sold 
oriental rugs to pay for his tuition.


The current John Kebabian took 
over the store in 1992, abandoning his 
molecular biophysics and biochemistry 
degree at Yale’s Graduate School of Arts 
and Sciences when his father retired 
due to illness. He had planned to work 
as a medical researcher and teacher 
before taking over the business. Now he 
purchases high-quality hand-woven rugs 
from Central Asian countries, including 
Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Mongolia, and 
Tibet.


John has continued the store’s 
tradition of repairing rugs by hand. 
Although 
sewing 
machines 
make 
repairing rugs easier and faster, the result 
is inferior, he says. The methods used at 
Kebabian’s may seem outdated and time-
consuming, but they are thorough.


Marcy Kebabian, John’s sister, is 
mending a rug. “We don’t use machines 
here,” Marcy clarifies, her hands busy 
with invisible stitches. “This rug here? 
The guy is giving it to his son, but he 
wants it repaired first. I have to do the 
invisible stitch because it’s double-sided, 
so you wouldn’t want to see the stitch on 
either side.” She bends her head close to 
the rug, illuminated by a bright lamp, and 
deftly makes a stitch.


Even when cleaning the rugs, the 
store uses the method that has been in 
place for decades. Though machines 
are available that wash rugs, they aren’t 
thorough enough, especially when used 
on the handwoven rugs Kebabian’s 
sells. John proudly shows me the 
vacuum cleaners the staff uses instead. 
“You can’t even find these anywhere 
anymore!” John says. Indeed, they look 
like props taken from the set of Mad 
Men, the television show set in the 1960s: 
a silver pole connected to the suction 
piece, with a big red bag hanging from 
the back to collect the dust. The store’s 
traditions can mean hard work for the 
staff. “I can eat whatever I want, because 
it’s a workout every day here,” says Craig 
Tyska, who has worked at Kebabian’s for 
many years.


All the same, Peggy is working to 
modernize the stubbornly old-fashioned 
store’s branding and media presence. 
“We’re trying to bring things up to date. 
We have such great products, and we 
want to use all this new social technology 
to get the word out, bring the caliber of 
our media resources up to that of our 
rugs,” she says. If she succeeds, she’ll 
have demonstrated that new media 
doesn’t necessarily mean the end of old 
traditions.
— Hanjing Cao


**Title: The Weirdoes Make Some Good Points**
**Page number(s): 9**

Susannah Shattuck
The Weirdoes Make 
Some Good Points
One sign read, “Our economy could 
be more fair.” Well, that was what it was 
all about, I guess. As I wandered through 
the crowd at Occupy Wall Street on a 
Saturday last month I saw that all the 
usual suspects were out. Dreadlocked, 
shirtless, smelly backpackers littered 
the ground with their wool blankets 
and blue plastic tarps and gave each 
other back massages. Mixed in among 
them, middle-aged, bald anticapitalists 
handed out Socialist Party literature and 
The Occupied Wall Street Journal and told 
anyone who would listen to “open your 
eyes to the coming revolution.” 


I guess you could say a lot of these 
guys were weird. One lady told me that 
the Federal Reserve was completely 
responsible for the financial collapse 
because it was controlled by the 
Rockefellers, the Morgans, and the mafia, 
and then said something like “America-
is-turning-into-Nazi-Germany.” An old 
man there said he had won an Emmy for 
his documentary filmmaking, and that he 
had been a protester all his life, at the ’63 
march with Martin Luther King, Jr., the 
’68 protests against “the war,” and the 
’03 protests against “the other war,” but 
that this gathering at Zuccotti Park in 
downtown Manhattan was the greatest 
sharing and interchange of humanity 
he’d ever seen. I asked him to tell me the 
name of one of his films and he dodged 
the question, muttering something about 
anti-Semitism in Poland. 


I stopped trying to talk to people 
and checked out the signs. “This is what 
democracy looks like.” “We are the 99 
percent.” “Mr. President, tear down this 
Wall (Street).” “Todos somos O.W.S.” “End 
all war; End all greed; End the fed.” 
“I’m a human being not a commodity.” 
“Ronald Reagan sucked balls.”


Occupy Wall Street is a movement 
of discontents. Lefties of all stripes, 
from Communists to anarchists to 
supporters of President Barack Obama 
to independents—even some Ron Paul 
libertarians—gathered to stare down the 
New York Stock Exchange and display 
to the bankers, traders, and CEOs the 
mass of humanity that didn’t like what 
Wall Street was doing. Then the police 
told them to move, so they spilled into 
a nearby park and stared down a Brooks 
Brothers store and a Burger King. 


This kind of thing wasn’t new 
to me. I’d been in Madrid during the 



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Sussanah Shattuck**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
May 15 movement of los indignados, the 
indignant, who sat down in the plaza 
that serves as the beating heart of Spain’s 
capital and decided they weren’t going to 
move until they felt less indignant.


But then, I thought I was witnessing 
a European phenomenon. I couldn’t 
imagine a similar group of Americans 
protesting against nothing in particular 
and for nothing specifically in a manner 
that violated all manner of municipal 
regulations. In Spain, even the president 
merely shrugged his shoulders and 
said he understood the protesters’ ire 
and that evicting them would cause 
more problems that it would solve. In 
America, I reckoned, protests became 
weird sometime between the ’70s and 
last fall’s Rally to Restore Sanity in 
Washington, D.C., where I and a quarter 
of a million other people all made fun of 
the idea of protesting.


Unemployment in Spain pushes 
20 percent, and among young people 
it’s over 40 percent. Neither of the 
nation’s two biggest political parties has 
any idea what to do. Politicians in major 
cities, such as Valencian Community 
president Francisco Camps, have been 
indicted in corruption scandals and 
gone unpunished. Short of Franco’s 
grandchildren, who wouldn’t be taking 
the streets? But it’s a Spanish thing. 
Right?


Spaniards 
in 
all 
major 
cities 
protested against the political and 
economic system. They began in 
May a week before national elections. 
They didn’t vote. They camped there 
all summer, beginning to disband in 
June but not actually leaving until the 
beginning of August, when the police 
finally retook the plaza. They tried to 
come back, but the police blocked the 
streets, so the protestors all went back 
inside to find some air conditioning. 


As I strolled through Occupy 
Wall Street last month, I tried to figure 
out what the protestors wanted. One 
man’s sign listed the ratios of average 
CEO salary to average worker’s salary 
in Britain, Japan, and the United States. 
Twelve to one. Fifteen to one. Four 
hundred and twenty-two to one. Yikes. 


I found myself helping out with 
what the protestors call the “people’s 
voice.” Someone starts talking. People 
nearby repeat the words loudly so 
that a large circle of people can hear 
the speech. (The New York Police 
Department has prohibited megaphones 
and other noisemaking devices.) A 
woman gave a speech on behalf of 
an organization she called the New 
York Society of A-G-L-B-F-I-O-Z 
or something like that. (It got a little 
muddled in the process of repeating.) 
Then she began to tell us the economic 
story of our young lifetimes: “Since the 
early ’90s (‘since the early ’90s’), average 
worker salaries have remained constant, 
but the super rich keep getting richer.” 
More people repeated her words. “In 
the financial collapse, (‘in the financial 
collapse’) ordinary Americans lost their 
jobs and their homes, but Wall Street 
kept on profiting.” Loud and clear. 


I walked to Washington Square Park, 
where another protest was underway. It 
may have been true that every corner 
on Broadway, the street in America 
with the most overbearing corporate 
advertisements, was just as crowded as 
Zuccotti Park, but Washington Square 
was lively. New York University students 
and young people surrounded the central 
pond and repeated each other’s speeches. 
TV cameras surrounded a pretty, well-
dressed college-age girl as she explained 
her sign listing concrete demands for 
the movement. Another man waved 
a stake topped by the impaled effigy 
head of Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd 
Blankfein bloodily gaping at us. Most 
people seemed to recognize Blankfein. 
So there’s another concrete demand.


Why Washington Square Park? 
Well, the movement spread. Everyone 
wanted to take part. As we listened to 
a speech by environmental activist Bill 
McKibben railing against oil pipelines 
and government secrecy, a group of 
kids wearing tie-dyed T-shirts held signs 
saying “Christians for Occupy Wall 
Street” and “Who would Jesus foreclose 
on?” By October 15, when people all over 
the United States and the world marched 
in solidarity with OWS, there were 
protests in my hometown of Atlanta, in 
London, England and Lubbock, Texas; 
in Cape Town and Mumbai and Seoul; 
in socialist-equality paradise Stockholm, 
in multiple buroughs of New York City. 
Oh, and fifty thousand indignados retook 
Puerta del Sol. 


The hardcore people camping on 
the cold New York concrete have started 
something, and I don’t mind if a lot of 
them are weird. It’s about time someone 
stood up and said it: the economy could 
be fairer. I’m orgulloso—that’s “proud”— 
of my country because so many of us 
are doing just that.


— Hamp Watson


**Title: Michael Frame**
**Author: Brianne Bowen**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
13
November 2011
about scale. As a Professor Adjunct in 
the Mathematics Department at Yale 
University, a position he has held since 
1992, he studies fractals—patterns that 
look the same close up as they do far 
away.

The most easily understood fractal 
shape is the Sierpinski Gasket. There are 
many different methods of producing 
the gasket, but the simplest way to 
visualize it is to start with a triangle. If 
you join the midpoints of each of the 
triangle’s sides, you’ll form a smaller 
triangle in the center. Remove that, and 
you end up with three smaller triangles 
surrounding an empty, triangle-shaped 
space. Repeating the process for each 
of these triangles will yield smaller and 
smaller triangles, each of which is part 
of a larger shape, which is in turn part of 
a larger shape. In the theoretical plane, 
this can go on forever, but comparable 
processes happen all the time. Take the 
bronchi in your lungs, each of which 
branches off into bronchioles which 
branch off into bronchioles which 
branch off into bronchioles. Similarly, if 
you look at a coastline, you’ll find that 


14
The New Journal
the erosion patterns that form within the 
stretch of a few feet are analogous to the 
same patterns that occur over a number 
of miles. It’s the same process repeated 
on smaller and smaller scales. The genius 
of it is that the range of its application 
seems limitless, from seashell design to 
planetary formation.

I once asked Frame, “Isn’t it 
overwhelming? I mean, it’s everywhere!”

He frowned. After a moment, he 
said, “Well, no. It’s all just a matter of 
finding a progression of simpler things.”

This is a common theme in how 
Frame sees the world. Someone once 
pointed to a sunflower and said to him, 
“How can you see that and not believe 
in God?” He said, “Easy. I just believe in 
Fibonacci numbers.”

I say, “What about things that can’t 
be explained systematically?”

He says, “I don’t think there’s 
anything 
that 
can’t 
be 
explained 
systematically.”

In addition to working for almost 
twenty years with Benoit Mandelbrot, the 
French mathematician who discovered 
fractals, Frame also teaches MATH 190, 
an introductory course in the subject 
that’s frequently taken by students 
outside the mathematics department 
because the study of fractals is as visual 
as it is analytic.

Mandelbrot 
discovered 
fractals 
while working as a probabilist for IBM 
in the 1960s. He was researching ways 
to predict and prevent problems in the 
way computers transmit information, 
and noticed that errors tended to clump 
together in patterns that looked the 
same whether he analyzed a shorter or 
longer time interval. In other words, the 
data behaved the same on a large scale as 
it did on much smaller ones. He called 
this property self-similarity. 


15
Mandelbrot had been interested in self-
similar structures since the early ’50s, but 
the transmission error problem provided 
him with the right conditions to 
formulate a firmly grounded theory. By 
1975, he had conducted enough research 
to publish Les objets fractal, an explanation 
of how any self-similar pattern could be 
described and replicated using only a few 
metrics.  

Frame believes that there are 
patterns waiting to be recognized almost 
everywhere. If there doesn’t appear to 
be one, it’s probably because we’re not 
asking the right questions. A lot of that 
is probably due to the amount of time 
he spent working with Mandelbrot. 

Often, Mandelbrot, who died last 
October of pancreatic cancer, would 
write down a solution to a problem on 
a piece of paper and say something like, 
“These are the right answers, but can 
you figure out a way to explain them?” 
Frame would take them into his office 
for a day or two, working backwards to 
figure out how Mandelbrot had come 
to his conclusions. Mandelbrot told 
him once that equations came to him in 
visions. Frame’s job for a long time was 
to translate those visions into terms the 
rest of us could understand.

I ask him if he has had any eureka 
moments himself. He says, “I think 
eureka moments are for people with 
forceful personalities.”

Frame’s process is slow and 
deliberate, a fact about which he is 
mercilessly self-deprecating. Mandelbrot 
could look at an image or a problem 
and find a solution within a matter of 
seconds. When Frame wants to solve a 
problem, he’ll write it down and leave it 
on his desk, visiting in for a couple of 
minutes every now and then to squint 
at it until something clicks. He often 
complains he’s the dumbest person 
in the department. He’s proud of his 
teaching, but only insofar as he can 
empathize with students’ bewilderment. 
The trick to good teaching, he says, is “to 
remember what it’s like to not understand 
something. I’m confused about most 
things most of the time, so I recognize 
that look on students’ faces.” Despite 
this, he has worked as a consultant for 
the Department of Energy and the 
Department of Transportation and 
is in the process of designing a new 
set of classes for pre-meds that more 
accurately reflect real problems people 
face in the medical profession. For the 
past twenty years, he’s been working on 
writing a textbook for advanced fractal 
study.

T
he computer in Frame’s office 
is equipped with software that 
analyzes radio frequencies for signs 
of extraterrestrial life. Every few days, 
the data is processed and sent to the 
headquarters of the Search for Extra 
Terrestrial Life Institute. He knows he 
probably won’t find anything, but he 
thinks the idea is “dag-blasted cool.” 
The rest of the office is what you’d 
expect from a math professor: piles of 
loose papers, bulging manila envelopes, a 
board covered with swirling patterns of 
dust from lots of erasing. A cane hangs 
from the chalk ledge. Frame has had to 
use it more and more in the past few 
years as his strength has deteriorated. 
He is small, and he looks smaller when 
he’s seated behind his huge desktop 
monitor. His hair is white, receding, 
and closely cropped. An unruly beard 
of multidirectional hairs extends down 
his neck. His glasses are big and thick; 
they make him look a little like WALL-E, 
the trash-compacting robot from the 
Disney-Pixar film.

Frame was born in 1951 to Walter 
and Mary Arrowood Frame. Even though 
she made more money than Walter did, 
Mary quit her job as an executive at 
a local bank so she could stay home 
with Michael and his younger siblings, 
Steven and Linda. Walter was a gifted 
millwright. He loved his job because he 
loved using his hands, but he often had 
to work long shifts at odd hours. Every 
third week he would work the night shift, 
and everyone in the house would have to 
be very quiet during the day so he could 
sleep. Frame remembers sitting outside 
on the porch wrapped in a blanket while 
a thunderstorm raged overhead, waiting 
for his dad to come home. Every night, 
Walter would peel apples for the family 
while Mary read stories from a Hans 
Christian Andersen book.

At the time, St. Albans was just 
on the edge of rural West Virginia, and 
finding things to do was a challenge. (“A 
lot of kids were athletes, but obviously 
not me,” Frame says with a smirk.) 
Michael became interested in the natural 
world. He made hot air balloons and 
mixed homemade gunpowder with 
moonshine 
from 
his 
grandfather’s 
general store to create model rockets. 
One year for his birthday, his uncle gave 
him a telescope. He still remembers 
being able to make out the craters on 
the moon and, just barely, the rings of 
Saturn.

Michael was the first member of 
his family to go to college. His parents 
couldn’t afford the tuition, but the 
Frames have a history of doing what’s 
important first and worrying about 
logistics later. Walter himself ran away 
from home at sixteen to join the Navy. 
He lied to the recruiter about his age 
and started working as a repairman in 
the Pacific fleet, where he discovered his 
love for machinery. Frame remembers 
that soon after he was accepted into 
Union College, his father told him he 
was going to accept the foreman’s job



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
he had repeatedly refused in the past 
because the extra money could help pay 
for his tuition. He tried fruitlessly for 
a while to talk his father into keeping 
his job as a machinist. Finally, Michael 
reminded Walter of a story Walter had 
once told him about Walter’s father from 
back when the Frames lived on a farm in 
Rosedale, West Virginia. One morning, 
Walter’s father went out to the corncrib 
to discover that someone had snuck in 
and stolen some of the chicken feed. He 
immediately threw out the lock to the 
crib. When Walter asked why, he said, 
“If someone is desperate enough to 
sneak into our corncrib so he can feed 
his family, I’m not going to stop him.” 
Michael told Walter that he would be 
worse off knowing that his father wasn’t 
doing what he needed to be happy than 
he would be with a little more money for 
tuition; he promised that he’d get by.

Frame went to Union expecting 
to major in physics, but when it came 
time to complete a lab requirement, 
he was dismayed to find that the only 
project available for an undergraduate 
of his experience level was “something 
in biophysics with killing frogs.” He has 
been a vegetarian for as long as he can 
remember (“Burned animals’ muscles—
who thinks that’s a good thing to eat? I 
mean, come on!”), so he switched his 
major to mathematics. He had already 
completed most of the requirements 
anyway. From there, he moved on to 
complete his Ph.D. in mathematics at 
Tulane in 1978 and performed some 
postdoctoral 
research 
at 
Carleton 
University in Ottowa. The only thing he 
liked about Carleton was a hematologist 
who worked at the medical school 
named Jean Maatta, so he married her 
and they both hit the road for the New 
College in Florida. But they didn’t like the 
mosquitoes and moved to Schenectady 
soon after, where Frame was offered a 
teaching position at his alma mater.

He taught calculus and other basic 
math courses until 1988, when SUNY 
Albany announced that they would 
be bestowing Benoit Mandelbrot with 
an honorary degree. Jim Corbett, a 
professor at Albany, planned to deliver 
a brief lecture about fractal basics in 
advance of the ceremony. He couldn’t 
make it, so Frame filled in at the last 
minute. What he didn’t know was 
that Mandelbrot himself would be in 
attendance. He describes the experience 
as “giving a general introduction to the 
ten commandments with Moses in the 
front row.”

He must have done a pretty good 
job, because two years later, when 
Mandelbrot was invited to teach fractal 
geometry at Yale, he enlisted Frame to 
help him write the curriculum. The first 
time the course was offered in 1992 was 
just before the movie “Jurassic Park” 
came out. The film had been adapted 
from a book that ostensibly had to do 
with fractals and chaos theory, and 
everyone was excited about the prospect 
of understanding the science behind 
it. In reality, the book had very little to 
do with chaos theory and the movie 
had even less, aside from a few lines 
delivered by Jeff Goldblum about how 
nature always returns to disorder. That’s 
not really what chaos theory is, but 180 
students signed up for the class anyway. 
Frame has taught it ever since.

Chaos theory, another mathematical 
concept that can be explained through 
fractals, is probably more applicable to 
Frame’s life than it is to dinosaurs. The 
most important aspect of chaos, and 
the one most often misunderstood, 
is sensitivity to initial conditions. The 
long-term future of a chaotic system 
is impossible to predict because even 
imperceptible differences in its initial 
conditions can lead to vastly different 
outcomes. In spatial terms, this means 
that you can never be sure whether 
your starting place is a specific point or 
another point arbitrarily close to that 
point: the two are indistinguishable, 
yet their futures are completely distinct 
from one another. This makes predicting 
the progress of the system as a whole 
impossible. The common example is of 
a butterfly flapping its wings in Africa 
causing a hurricane in North America. A 
more accurate way to put it, according 
to Frame, is that a butterfly flapping its 
wings in Africa makes it impossible to 
predict how, when, or where a hurricane 
will occur in North America because 
every small disturbance in wind patterns 
has the potential to yield a drastically 
different future.

“Chaos has given me a real 
appreciation for unpredictability,” Frame 
says. Who knows what would have 
happened had Jim Corbett not been 
busy on that day in 1988, or if the New 
College had been in a less swampy part 
of Florida, or if Michael Frame’s genetic 
material had come together in a way that 
made him more naturally fit for athletic 
activity? Each moment is a composite 
of untraceable forces leading back to an 
indiscernible initial position. In the case 
of the Frames, some forces are clearer 
than others. Michael had a melanoma 
removed from his ankle in 1983. His 
sister has had breast cancer since 1991, 
and his brother was diagnosed with 
leukemia in 2000. Two years ago, Michael 
was diagnosed with inoperable prostate 
cancer. He thinks unlucky genetics and 
continued exposure to Union Carbide 
chemicals account for the prevalence of 
sickness in his family. Cancer has also 
been one of the reasons why he and 
Jean—whom he calls the only person 
with whom he’s ever had an emotional 
connection—are so close. She has had 
breast cancer for twenty-eight years, 
and they both agreed early on that they 
wouldn’t have any children. He says, 
“The thought of having a child and then 
one or both of us dying while he or she 
was still young was just terrible.”


With regard to himself and his 
siblings, he says, “None of us have the 
sense that this thing is unfair.” He adds, 
“These are just the initial conditions of 
our lives.” For now, things are stable. 
He’s lasted longer than the doctors 
thought he would, and he’s currently 
on a few experimental treatments. He 
has good days and bad days. On the 
weekends, Jean, who now has a job 
in the transplantation center of Yale-
New Haven Hospital, works in her 
vegetable garden. Frame watches her 
through his window or reads books by 
José Saramago, his favorite author. His 
favorite Saramago so far is Death With 
Interruptions, a surreal novel in which 
Death takes a vacation.

One of Frame’s favorite examples 
of self-similarity in art, Salvador Dali’s 
“Face of War,” also has to do with death. 
In the painting, a corpse-like face in a 
barren landscape looks out at the viewer. 
A skull sits in its mouth and in each of 
its eye sockets. Inside each of the skulls’ 
eye sockets and mouths is a skull with 
skulls in its eye sockets and mouth.

One day while sitting in his office, he 
explained to me why he likes it so much. 
“At some point, you can no longer see 
what’s going on in the eyes and mouth,” 
he said. “But you can imagine it.”


**Title: The Great Equalizer**
**Author: Kalli Angel, Ali Abarca**
**Page number(s): 18**

D
ear Colleague: 
Education has long been recognized 
as the great equalizer in America. 
The U.S. Department of  Education and its 
Office for Civil Rights believe that providing all 
students with an educational environment free 
from discrimination is extremely important.

Thus began the letter sent to 
colleges around the country on April 4 by 
the Office for Civil Rights of the federal 
Department of Education. Nineteen 
pages long, it expressed concerns about 
national statistics on sexual violence in 
institutions of higher education and 
outlined the responsibilities of these 
colleges and universities, under Title 
IX of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act, to take “immediate and 
effective steps to end sexual harassment 
and sexual violence.”

In recent years, the Office for 
Civil Rights has issued similar advisory 
letters 
regarding 
bullying, 
gender 
discrimination 
in 
collegiate 
sports, 
and single-sex education. But Jim 
Bradshaw, a Department of Education 
spokesman, noted that this was the 
first time an administration has ever 
issued guidance specifically dealing with 
sexual violence. April’s letter is also 
unprecedented in mandating specific 
policies. “Dear Colleague” letters in the 
past have left details to the discretion 
of individual schools. But this time, the 
Office for Civil Rights is requiring that 
administrators include specific language 
in student codes of conduct. The letter 
also stipulates what some worry is a low 
standard of evidence that could lead to 
wrongful punishments in sexual assault 
cases. Universities must comply or else 
they could face litigation or lose federal 
funding.

The letter covers everything from 
disciplinary procedures to freshman 
education 
programs, 
emphasizing 
respect and protection for victims and 
transparency on policies and programs. 
The obligations discussed in the letter 
also apply to secondary schools.

The Dear Colleague letter is not 
surprising in light of the many cases 
of collegiate sexual violence that have 
made the news in recent years. At 
Arizona State University, a rape survivor 
successfully sued the school under Title 
IX in 2006 for allowing her attacker, a 
football player, to return to campus 
after dismissing him for prior sexual 
misconduct. A woman at the University 
of Colorado won a Title IX suit in 2007, 
receiving a $2.5 million settlement from 
the university after proving it had failed 
to address a hostile sexual environment 
that led to her rape. Eastern Michigan 
University was fined $357,000 by the

Under Title IX, the Obama administration has 
mandated ambitious reforms at universities 
nationwide to combat sexual violence.



**Title: The Dear Colleague Letter: Universities Respond to Federal Guidelines on Sexual Assault**
**Author: Ali Abarca**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
19
November 2011
liberal parents, and that those who 
haven’t experienced hardship in life, 
won’t experience it, and won’t cause 
it,” he added. “That is a very dangerous 
assumption.”
Pomona already had a number of 
policies in place intended to prevent 
sexual assault and to support and 
protect victims before receiving April’s 
letter. These included providing private 
and group counseling for survivors, 
in addition to the support Schudson’s 
group offers. Pomona also allows a 
victim to request special academic 
considerations, such as dropping a class 
without penalty after the regular deadline 
if the assailant is also in the class. The 
university recently added a session to 
its freshman orientation program for a 
more engaging and thorough discussion 
of sexual assault. 
One of the more important new 
policies adopted this fall, however, 
met 
with 
criticism 
from 
some 
Pomona students. The Dear Colleague 
letter requires that schools use a 
“preponderance of evidence” standard 
of proof in grievance procedures for 
sexual harassment or assault. If sexual 
harassment or violence is more likely than 
not to have occurred, then a student can 
be punished. The standard is now part 
of Pomona’s student disciplinary code. 
“It was clear that 
universities 
needed assistance 
in determining 
how Title IX 
applies in cases of 
alleged sexual 
violence.”
Office for Civil Rights in 2006 for failing 
to notify students of an on-campus 
rape and murder. These are just a few 
examples.
“It was clear from OCR’s work 
investigating 
individual 
complaints, 
conducting compliance reviews, and 
responding 
to 
technical 
assistance 
requests 
that 
needed 
assistance in determining how Title 
IX applies in cases of alleged sexual 
violence,” Bradshaw explained.
The Office for Civil Rights is hoping 
the Dear Colleague letter will clarify 
a university’s responsibilities when it 
comes to sexual violence and that these 
recommendations and guidelines will 
help to create campuses in which sexual 
assault occurs less frequently, or when 
it does occur, to assure that the victims 
can find emotional and disciplinary 
resolution.
When asked if schools are ever 
uncooperative, Bradshaw said, “It’s 
rare.” He also explained that the first 
action the Office for Civil Rights initiates 
with a non-complying institution is to 
negotiate a resolution agreement with 
the university to bring it into compliance. 
He said that in the vast majority of cases, 
this is sufficient action.
P
omona 
College 
in 
Claremont, 
California, is one school that has 
responded swiftly to the letter. The 
school revised its code of conduct 
in September, bypassing the student 
comment period typically required for 
such changes because the change was 
federally mandated. Instead, the school 
held a two-week period for student 
discussion after enacting the new policy.
Zach Schudson, a junior at Pomona 
and a member of the student group 
Advocates for Survivors of Sexual 
Assault, said that he appreciated how 
conscientious the administration at 
Pomona has been in engaging with 
issues of sexual violence. “People like 
to pretend that this is a wonderful place, 
but it’s not perfect,” Schudson said. 
His classmates assume “that people 
who come to this school all come from 
white, middle-class backgrounds with 


---

The legal system employs various 
standards of evidence for different 
levels of litigation. In criminal trials, 
the standard is highest, requiring the 
prosecution to prove guilt beyond a 
reasonable doubt. But in most civil 
suits, as well as in some criminal 
proceedings such as parole violation 
hearings, the plaintiff must only provide 
a preponderance of evidence. This is 
also the standard of proof used in grand 
jury proceedings. In a 2002 National 
Institute of Justice study, approximately 
80 percent of the schools that identified 
a particular evidentiary standard for 
sexual-assault disciplinary proceedings 
already employed the preponderance of 
evidence standard. 
Despite the standard’s prevalence, 
national organizations such as the 
American Association of University 
Professors and the Foundation for 
Individual Rights in Education have 
criticized it. Both groups have sent letters 
to Assistant Secretary Russlynn Ali at 
the Office for Civil Rights questioning 
whether the lower standard still complies 
with the basic principles of the judicial 
process and expressing reservations 
about the severity of consequences for 
the falsely convicted, comparing the 
standard to a “tie goes to the runner” 
mentality.
The editorial board of The Student 
Life, the weekly newspaper at Pomona, 
also objected to the new standard, 
claiming that it discounted “the value of 
a legal right that lies at the heart of our 
democratic process.”
A few days later, The Student Life 
published a response from Schudson. 
He argued that the preponderance 
of evidence standard of proof is an 
appropriate response to this unique type 
of case because sexual assault does not 
always result in forensic evidence.
Schudson cited data from a 2010 
study by David Lisak, a psychologist at 
Northeastern University, and several 
of his colleagues, which estimated the 
rate of false rape allegations over one 
ten-year period at just under 6 percent. 
As Schudson wrote, “the presumption 
of ‘innocent until proven guilty’ that 



20
The New Journal
protects alleged perpetrators mutates 
into a presumption of ‘lying until proven 
truthful’ for survivors.”
Schudson’s response is compelling. 
Just as much as alleged perpetrators of 
sexual assault deserve to be presumed 
innocent, victims of assault should not 
be presumed liars. Preponderance of 
evidence is a good compromise between 
both parties in cases such as these, where 
hard evidence is often difficult to find. 
Many criticisms of the standard may 
ultimately stem from an assumption 
that women who accuse men of rape 
are often untruthful, or from a mistaken 
belief that sexual assault is uncommon.
T
he University of Maryland is 
also 
working 
include 
the 
preponderance of evidence in its code 
of conduct in response to the letter from 
the Office of Civil Rights. Currently, 
the university’s published Code of 
Student Conduct states that in all cases 
brought before the grievance boards, 
the “burden of proof shall be upon 
the complainant, who must establish 
the guilt of the respondent by clear and 
convincing evidence.” Diane Krejsa, 
senior university counsel at Maryland, 
explained that a separate committee has 
also been meeting every other month 
since the summer to review any needed 
changes and updates to the university’s 
disciplinary procedures for sexual assault 
cases.
But in Maryland’s case, students 
had also been fighting administrators for 
greater transparency. For three years, a 
group of persistent journalism students 
and one professor worked on a project 
to track cases of sexual assault at their 
university. Just weeks before the Dear 
Colleague letter was sent to campus 
officials, the students obtained a list from 
Maryland’s Office of Student Conduct 
of all the students in the past decade 
found guilty of sexual assault. Sue Kopen 
Katcef, a lecturer in the Merrill College 
of Journalism at Maryland, led the 
students in investigating sexual violence 
there. When she first presented the idea 
to her journalism class three years ago, 
she said, “[My students] looked at me 
like I was crazy.” But by the end of the 
semester, both men and women in the 
class had committed themselves to the 
project, upset by the predatory behavior 
of some of their fellow students. The 
students that year produced an award-
winning radio program based on their 
research.
Katcef didn’t stop there. Semester 
by semester, she helped her students 
follow the laws all the way to the top of 
the state of Maryland’s legal system. The 
university at first refused to release the 
names of guilty students by claiming they 
were protected under the federal Family 
Educational Rights and Privacy Act. 
Sexual violence “is not something that’s 
unique to the university of Maryland,” 
Katcef said. “This is a problem that is 
pervasive on college campuses, private 
and public, across the country.”
In 2000, the National Institute of 
Justice and the Bureau of Justice Statistics 
collaborated on a comprehensive survey 
of college women about sexual assault. 
Their data demonstrate that in fact 
nearly 5 percent of college women are 
victimized (experience completed or 
attempted assault) each calendar year. 
The conclusions of this Department of 
Justice survey, when applied to a campus 
of over 26,000 undergraduates, half of 
them female, indicate that an average of 
675 women at Maryland may be victims 
of attempted or completed sexual assault 
each year.
When Katcef’s students finally 
obtained the list of students who had 



21
been disciplined by Maryland’s grievance 
boards in the last ten years, there were 
only four names. If sexual violence is 
a huge problem, why don’t more cases 
come before university disciplinary 
committees?
Extrapolating their data to a 
four-year college career, the Justice 
Department researchers observed that 
the statistic could climb to 20 percent 
of the collegiate female population. 
(A 1985 survey of over 3,500 college 
women about sexual violence published 
in Ms. Magazine also found that one in 
five women were victims of sexual 
violence. While the statistic was widely 
accepted and cited throughout the 1990s, 
there were problems with the survey’s 
methods, making it easy for skeptics to 
dismiss its findings. This more rigorous 
federal survey unfortunately confirmed 
the older estimate.)
The University of Maryland’s list 
reveals the problem in how victims 
of sexual violence understand their 
experiences and whether they choose 
to report them. “Many women do not 
characterize their sexual victimizations 
as a crime for a number of reasons 
(such as embarrassment, not clearly 
understanding the legal definition of 
rape, or not wanting to define someone 
they know who victimized them as a 
rapist) or because they blame themselves 
for their sexual assault,” noted writers of 
the Department of Justice. In addition 
to making procedural modifications, 
universities must improve education 
about sexual violence.
Y
ale University’s code of conduct 
already uses the preponderance 
of evidence standard. “I think the 
evidential standard is definitely more 
applicable than clear and convincing 
evidence because establishing guilt or 
innocence is already so difficult” in cases 
of sexual violence, Assistant Dean Jill 
Cutler said. Cutler sat through many 
sexual misconduct proceedings during 
her fourteen years as the secretary of the 
Yale’s Executive Committee. The cases 
are complicated by factors like alcohol, 
lack of witnesses, and the fact that most 
cases of sexual assault at Yale involve 
acquaintances.
During the past year, though, Yale 
has reassessed its sexual misconduct 
policies anyway. Among other changes, 
Yale now uses stronger, more specific 
language in the student code of conduct 
explaining what qualifies as sexual 
harassment and assault. The grievance 
procedure 
for 
victims 
of 
sexual 
violence—in the past an opaque and 
confusing process—has been unified 
into a single University-Wide Committee 
on Sexual Misconduct.
That committee will also appoint 
a fact-finder, someone unaffiliated with 
the university, for each case. “I think it 
will help greatly to have independent 
outside investigators who can spring 
into action and collect the facts as soon 
as a case is brought to light, and who will 
have the time and energy to interview 
all the people whose observations might 
be relevant to the chain of events,” 
said Cutler. It is important that the 
investigators are not professors, who 
often are too busy to gather all the 
information a committee needs to make 
a decision.
Proper investigation of sexual 
violence cases was mentioned briefly in 
the Dear Colleague letter, but the Office 
of Civil Rights focused on the speed of 
investigations (so that victims are not 
dragged through months and months of 
hearings) rather than on the individuals 
doing the investigating.
Though some have criticized Yale’s 
efforts to change how the University 
handles sexual misconduct as ponderous 
and ineffectual, the administration’s 
attitude contrasts with what Schudson 
calls an inadequate response from 
Pomona College officials.
The administration there is making 
changes only because the Office of Civil 
Rights has required it to do so, according 
to Schudson. The letter “has regulatory 
authority, so that’s what’s important to 
us,” Miriam Feldblum, a dean at Pomona, 
told The Student Life. As far as Schudson 
is concerned, it was like saying, “Because 
we had to.”
The administration didn’t hesitate 
to make changes that will help victims 
of sexual violence find justice. However, 
if Schudson is correct, Feldblum’s 
attitude also demonstrates a lack of 
understanding of the depth of the 
problem and the need for administrators 
to cooperate in addressing it.
The Dear Colleague letter began 
with the premise that changes had to 
be made so that education could remain 
the great American equalizer. The 
threat of terminating federal funds is an 
effective one, as Pomona’s case shows. 
But for universities to alter a campus 
culture that fosters—or at least turns a 
blind eye to—victim blaming and other 
dangerous assumptions, they will need 
to do much more than just follow the 
guidelines in the Office of Civil Rights 
letter. The federal bureaucracy has 
nothing to do with some of the best 
examples of effective action to combat 
sexual violence, from Schudson’s and his 
friends’ determined advocacy at Pomona 
to Katcef’s sleuthing. Instead, students 
and administrators alike must take a long 
look at their own campuses’ specific 
failings and find ways of creating a safer, 
saner sexual culture.
TNJ
Kalli Angel is a junior in 
Berkeley College.
If sexual violence 
is a huge problem, 
why don’t more 
cases come before 
university 
disciplinary 



**Bull Ridin’ Jus’ Ain’t What It Used to Be**
**Author: Max Ehrenfreund**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
November 2011
T
he former world champion 
L.J. Jenkins was there. So was 
Ryan Dirteater, who’d won the 
tournament two weeks earlier in Wichita, 
along with a cadre of talented Brazilians, 
including this year’s favorite for the 
championship, a 23-year-old from Pilar 
do Sul, São Paulo, named Silvano Alves. 
The best in the world were buckin’ bulls 
in downtown Hartford. You had to think 
they were in the wrong city, and possibly 
the wrong century. Ain’t no cowboys in 
these parts, someone should have warned 
the organizers of the Professional Bull 
Riders, which is the major league of bull 
riding and the governing body for what 
may be this country’s newest spectator 
sport.


I arrived in Hartford on a Friday 
night. On my way to the XL Civic 
Center, I drove past clubs, bars, and 
darkened 
office 
buildings, 
and—
inexplicably—small crowds of cowboys 
and cowgirls of all ages wearing denim 
and plaid and boots. The scene outside 
the city’s virtuous Old Statehouse was a 
foreigner’s confused vision of America: 
cowboy hats leaning together and proud, 
colonial brick.


I gradually realized few of them were 
anything like “real cowboys”—whatever 
that meant—and that was disappointing, 
because I had come to Hartford with the 
intention of meeting one. I was looking 
for someone who appeared more 
comfortable on an animal’s back than on 
his own two feet, with a leathery face and 
a lean jaw and an intense, flat gaze, like 
you might use to stare down a bull. I had 
come out of curiosity. You see, I’m one 
of that rare species of troglodyte that 
Flint Rasmussen, the Bull Riders’ clown, 
kept calling “city people.” (“People are 
staring at me—city people,” he told the 
audience. The crowd at the Civic Center 
had just dressed up for the night. They 
were city people too.) I felt that after 
having lived here for twenty-one years, 
it was time to learn what America was 
really all about.


Yet 
although 
someone 
says 
something politically incorrect and 
vaguely offensive into the arena’s 
microphone about once a night, I 
discovered bull riding shows are for 
the most part designed to appeal to 
people like me as well, not only to true 
Americans. The prayer that’s repeated 
before the bull riding begins each night 
noticeably avoids the words “Jesus” and 
“Christ.”


I caught Rasmussen shortly after 
he had officially declared his candidacy 
for the 2012 presidential election. He 
had aimed a pair of political jokes right 
and left—following a line about joining 
the other clowns in the presidential race 
with “I don’t have time to occupy Wall 
Street, because I have a job”—but he 
told me he almost always avoids political 
comedy. “These people pay money to 
come and sit for two and a half hours 
where they’re not watching the news,” 
he said.


The 
Professional 
Bull 
Riders 
have changed the sport, and if I had 
gone looking for a genuine hick good 
time, I wasn’t going to find one. The 
organization is building a national 
television audience, and bull riding is 
becoming corporate and mainstream. 
As Jeff Robinson joked, “We’re not 
just redneck-based oriented anymore.” 
Robinson is one of the country’s major 
stock contractors. That is, he owns 
thirty-five of the bulls who were in 
Hartford, including Stanley FatMax, a 
bull named after the hardware brand, 
and New Britain – 1843, named for 
the town and year in which Stanley was 
founded. Several of the wildest, most 
powerful bulls in the world are also his, 
including I’m a Gangster and Chicken 
on a Chain, who would be bucking in 
the World Finals in Las Vegas at the end 
of October.


There would be only one more 
stop on the riders’ tour before they went 
to Las Vegas. It was a last opportunity 
for some of them to qualify for the 
championship, so the stakes were high.


O
f 
course, 
it 
is 
a 
gross 
oversimplification to say that this 
country is split into city people and cattle 
people and they never talk to each other. 
I myself have had several experiences 
with the other kind of American.


There was, for example, that one 
fellow, my friend’s cousin’s husband, a 
retired engineer whom I met at a dinner 
party in Knights Landing, California. If 
you haven’t heard of Knights Landing, 
that’s because it’s not much more than 
a plot of houses amid other plots of 
rice, tomatoes, and sunflowers the same 
size and shape. The engineer was a short 
man with pale blue eyes whose hobby 
was racing automobiles and who spoke 
in deliberate, exact sentences. “I like Bill 
O’Reilly,” he told me. “I think he calls a 
spade a spade.” I really wanted to ask him 
about politics because he seemed like an 
intelligent man with strong opinions and 
a point of view unfamiliar to me. We 
stayed away from the subject, though. 
It seemed in the past he’d had heated 
disagreements with his father-in-law, 
who was sitting at the head of the table 
and telling stories about immigrating 
from Mexico as a young man, becoming 
a farm operator, and harvesting more 
than fifty thousand tons of processing 
tomatoes in one bumper year. America 
meant very different things to those two 
men. Besides, the engineer’s mother-
in-law kept serving me more of her 
enchiladas.


Then there was the woman who 
spent many months trying to get my 
grandpa to marry her. The relationship 
finally ended earlier this year. “She 
thought Jesus wouldn’t like her,” 
my grandpa said. “But people need 
companionship, and I think He would 
understand that.” Getting married didn’t 
make sense to him, though, because 
nothing of that kind was going to happen 
anyway. I have always wished I could 
share my grandpa’s magnetism, but I’ve 
at last come to admit that at 94, he is the 
handsomer man by far.


I called my grandpa the morning I 
left New Haven for Hartford. “Whatever 
you do, don’t get on a bull’s back,” he 
warned.


“I wouldn’t ever have thought of it 
if you hadn’t suggested it,” I said.


A
t the back entrance to the Civic 
Center in Hartford, I met a pair of 
technicians. One of them had twirled the 
ends of his impressive moustache. The 
other looked me up and down and said, 
“If you came to work this show, you’re 
definitely overdressed.” I had thrown 
on a pair of jeans and my blue blazer 
because—well, obviously, the corduroy 
one would have been out of place. As 
it turns out, the blazer and jeans is a 
good strategy if you’re going to watch 
bull riding. It’s what the announcers and 
officials wear who aren’t cowboys. What 
gave me away was the necktie.


I explained that I was there to 
report on the event. “Don’t speak to this 
man; he’s from the evil news media!” 
the technician joked to his partner. This 
might be a difficult weekend, I thought 
then, but as it turned out, everyone 
involved with the bull riding seemed 
happy to have me hanging around. A 
moment later my phone vibrated. It 
was Jack Carnefix, the Professional Bull 
Riders’ affable press officer. I excused 
myself and met Carnefix in the bowels 
of the Civic Center, where he explained 
what bull riding is all about.


“First thing, nothing’s tied around 
the bull’s balls. That’s the most common 
question,” he said. A rope called a flank 
strap is tied around the bull’s waist to 
encourage him to buck harder. It’s an 
annoyance to the animal, who will try to 
kick it off with his hind legs. Another 
rope, the bull rope, is wrapped tightly 
around the bull’s shoulders and over the 
rider’s palm.


The rider must keep his grip on the 
bull rope with his other hand free for 
eight seconds. If he isn’t thrown before 
then, the ride qualifies, and the rider is 
awarded a score out of a hundred points 
by four judges who consider whether the 
rider appears in control and how hard 
the bull is bucking. A decent score is 
between eighty and ninety points; scores 
above ninety points are rare.


Besides the rider, there would be 
several others in the arena. The three 
bullfighters would protect the riders 
after they’d been thrown by distracting 
the bulls. “If you’re a rider, and you get 
thrown, first you got to figure out which 
way is up. Then you’re running for the 
nearest fence,” Carnefix said. There 
would also be a mounted cowboy, who 
would lasso a bull if the animal couldn’t 
find the exit after throwing his rider. 
Presidential hopeful Rasmussen would 
also be present.


Rasmussen (it is not a pseudonym) 
is officially an “entertainer,” not a rodeo 
clown, because the Professional Bull 
Riders don’t organize rodeos, and they’re 
very sensitive about the distinction. At 
a rodeo, you’ll also see steer wrestling, 
cutting shows, saddle- and bareback-
bronco bucking, and barrel racing, 
among other competitions. “Whatever 
you do, don’t call us a rodeo,” Carnefix 
told me later.


But before I saw any of these people, 
the lights in the Civic Center went down, 
and a movie about the United States 
Air Force was played for the audience 
“They’re just 
living the little 
rock-star lives 
that they’ve built 
for their little 
bull-buckin’ 
selves.”



**Title: The Toughest Sport on Earth**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
25
November 2011
on several large screens. The Air Force 
is a sponsor of the Professional Bull 
Riders, and the gist of the movie was 
that the two organizations share a set 
of American values as old and as sacred 
as the Constitution itself. After the film, 
a squadron of about twenty Air Force 
recruits marched into the arena in three 
columns to swear their oaths of service 
publicly and to promise to defend those 
values. They wore blue jeans and blue Air 
Force T-shirts and looked very young. I 
felt bad for the recruit on the corner of 
the phalanx nearest me, who stepped off 
on his right foot and stumbled.

“Ladies and gentlemen: 365 days 
a year, 24/7, may it be here, or may it 
be abroad, they’re men and they’re 
women that protect and defend these 
United States of America,” as one 
of the announcers described the Air 
Force later, emphasizing these. “I think 
it is our American duty to tell them 
from the bottom of our hearts how 
much we appreciate what they do for 
our country.” The audience didn’t need 
the encouragement, though. They’d 
interrupted Lt. Col. Horst Knorreck 
of the 319th Recruiting Squadron with 
spontaneous applause during his speech 
before the swearing-in.

Several minutes later, there was a 
series of loud explosions and heat on 
my face: Carnefix had positioned me 
underneath a set of four flamethrowers 
that were shooting columns of fire to 
a height of around twenty-five feet. 
Flashes of magnesium lit up the Civic 
Center, and the letters “PBR” burned in 
propane on the dirt floor of the arena. 
The announcers introduced the cowboys, 
who ran out of the gate, tipping their 
hats to the audience. The current top 
five riders stood akimbo on platforms 
above the arena. Over their heads, beams 
of light crisscrossed through the smoke 
and more stuff blew up. The ecumenical 
prayer was said (“We don’t only ask it 
of you of our cowboys, we ask it of 
you of our livestock as well”), and the 
319th Recruiting Squadron Honor Guard 
presented the colors.

The National Anthem was followed 
by the Party Rock Anthem as the lights 
came on again.

The Bull Rider’s Prayer
“Father, tonight we come to you asking that you put 
your mighty hand upon this event. We don’t only ask it 
of you of our cowboys, we ask it of you of our livestock 
as well. We thank you for this day. We thank you for the 
gifts you’ve given us. That said, we’d also like to say a 
very special prayer for our servicemen and women, 
whether they be at home or even abroad, protecting 
and defending the freedoms we so dearly love as free 
Americans. We ask this of you in forgiveness of our sins, 
and by your name we pray. Amen.”

I had expected, even hoped for 
ostentatious displays of patriotism, but 
I was so surprised to learn that everybody’s 
shuffuhlin’-shuffuhlin’, 
including 
the 
toughest cowboys in the world and their 
fans, that I missed the first ride: Mike 
Lee, the former world champion from 
Decatur, on a bull named Get Back, for 
eighty-five points. It was a mighty fine 
way to start a weekend of bull ridin’.


It turned out there were several 
reasons for the Professional Bull 
Riders’ presence in Hartford, the group’s 
first visit to the city in their nineteen-
year history. The riders have stopped at 
Mohegan Sun, the casino in Uncasville, 
for the past several years. This year, there 
was a scheduling conflict at Mohegan 
Sun’s arena with the state’s Women’s 
National Basketball Association team, 
the Connecticut Sun, who took priority. 
As to why the cowboys were in the state 
in the first place, Carnefix explained it 
was part of a vision of building a national 
audience for the sport. The organization 
couldn’t just hold events in Texas and 
Oklahoma. “We want California. We 
want Connecticut,” Carnefix said.


That vision seems to belong mostly 
to Ty Murray, one of the twenty bull 
riders who left the rodeo circuit in 1992 
to establish the Professional Bull Riders. 
(“Ty wants to make this a mainstream 
sport. And really all of us do,” Robinson 
told me.) Murray has won the world 
championship nine times, and he gave 
television commentary in Hartford. “I 
want to see it where it’s on ESPN every 
week, just like the other sports,” he told 
me, adding later, “I want to see it grow as 
much as possible. Whenever we go after 
something, we try not to limit ourselves. 
We set our goals pretty big.”


Before the Professional Bull Riders, 
Murray told me, riders competed in  “a 
lot of stand-alone, one-off things that 
different promoters would do. They 
ranged from big and good to little and 
crappy.” His organization has succeeded 
in making the sport “followable,” he said. 
“Football wouldn’t be that big if it was 
just some random game and you didn’t 
know anything about it every Sunday.”


The New York private equity firm 
Spire Capital bought a majority share of 
the Professional Bull Riders in 2007 for 
an undisclosed amount. The same year, 
the cowboys traveled to New York for 
the first time. Bull riding at Madison 
Square Garden was sold out, Murray 
remembers. “We were really adamant 
about going to places like Boston and 
New York City. When we sold out 
Madison Square Garden, it dispelled the 
myth that it was a Western sport.”


Today, the Professional Bull Riders 
estimate their international television 
audience at 100 million. The events are 
broadcast in eighty-five countries. Not 
only has the audience for bull riding 
grown, it has broadened as well. “When 
you look at the crowd at a PBR event 
compared to a more traditional rodeo 
event, you see a more diverse crowd. 
You see young people, you see every 
race, creed, and color,” Murray said. 
“It’s not your traditional everybody’s-in-


--- Page 26 ---

26
The New Journal
jeans-and-hats-and-boots.”

The field is wider, too. Some of 
the riders are city boys, including many 
who had never ridden until their late 
teens. Then there are the Brazilians, 
who held five of the top six spots in the 
overall standings during the Hartford 
tournament. “The Brazilian contingent 
goes stronger every year,” Murray said. 
Many of the Brazilians don’t speak 
English, and when a bull’s name is lost 
in translation before a round, it’s funny 
to see the world’s best riders looking 
confused in the middle of the arena. 
Brazil has always been strong—Adriano 
Moraes, who won the first world 
championship in 1994, is Brazilian. But, 
Murray said, “They dominated this year 
like no other.”


Yet Murray left me with the 
impression that his dreams had less to 
do with audience numbers, much less 
advertising revenue, than with seeing 
bull riders get the respect they deserve.


Though there’s more money in the 
sport now than there used to be, the 
athletes’ earnings remain comparatively 
modest. The top bull riders earn about 
$1.5 million a year in “on-bull earnings,” 
or prize money, excluding sponsorships. 
The riders aren’t employed, and if 
they can’t hang onto a bull for at least 
eight seconds all weekend, they’re paid 
only a nominal four hundred dollars to 
cover the expense of traveling to the 
tournament. Their independence and 
low pay is a point of pride—Rasmussen 
made a joke the first night about Alex 
Rodriguez’s $32 million salary after the 
Yankee shortstop left men stranded in 
the last game of his team’s season, which 


**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Max Ehrenfreund**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“When you saw bull riding, maybe 
you thought there’d be cowboys in town 
who walk like this,” he told us, slouching 
and bowing his legs out, “sit on the 
fence, and say, ‘Yee-haw!’ ” If so, we 
were mistaken. “We’d like to have a little 
fun—play some tunes, do a little dance, 
make a little love, get down tonight!”
If anyone were to shout “Yee-haw!” 
I would have expected it to be McCoy. 
When it comes to cowboys, the 31-year-
old rider from Tupelo, Oklahoma is the 
genuine article. He rode his first calf 
when he was 5. I asked him how to tell 
a real cowboy from a city slicker who’d 
just dressed up for the show. “The thing 
is, the bulls don’t care what you wear. 
You could ride one like that,” he said, 
indicating my necktie.


That night, McCoy and his three 
roommates sat down in a Denny’s to 
talk about the bulls they’d drawn for the 
next day, figurin’ how best to ride ’em. 
McCoy would be on an animal named 
Flashpoint. “He looks like a really good 
draw. He’s honest; he has no tricks,” 
McCoy told me. Then they headed back 
to their room at the Hartford Marriott 
for a good night’s sleep.


T
he bulls, meanwhile, were spending 
the night at Crowley’s Stables, 
just over the state line in Agawam, 
Massachusetts. “We’re staying at the 
Hotel Marriott because we couldn’t get 
into Crowley’s Stables,” Carnefix said. 
You could tell it was a joke he’d used 
many times, but it was still funny.


I drove up to Agawam the next 
day after lunch to meet Jeff Robinson, 
the stock contractor. (“It’s a hot item, 
bull semen,” McCoy said, adding that 
Robinson is “the producer of the year. 
He’s kind of cornered the market, if 
you know what I mean. He’s got it 
cornered, or froze. He’s got the market 
froze.”) After having heard a rumor or 
two, I wanted to hear the true story of 
how Robinson’s bull Chicken on a Chain 
got his name. Chicken on a Chain is a 
popular animal who has been bucking 
riders since 2005, even though the career 
of a typical bull lasts only two years 
before he is put out to stud. Chicken 
on a Chain has just over 3,700 fans on 
Facebook, and Robinson told me he 
receives a couple dozen emails a week 
asking about him.


Robinson, 
with 
his 
deadpan 
cowboy sarcasm, has a keen appreciation 
for the ironies of what was originally a 
predominantly rural sport. “We don’t 
fight chickens or dogs where I’m from,” 
he told me. He is also the kind of stock 
contractor who enjoys messing with 
you. For example, after I told him I 
was a Yale student, he convinced me, 
briefly, that Rasmussen was a Harvard 
alumnus. More than one reporter asked 
Robinson over the weekend how many 
bulls he owned. “Oh, several,” he’d say. 
(Robinson operates three trucks that 
carry around a hundred bucking bulls to 
events around the country, and there are 
more animals at his ranch in Mars Hill, 
North Carolina.)


At Crowley’s Stables, Carnefix and 
I had been joking about my prospects 
as a bull rider. “We got some guys that 
will teach you. You’re not too young 
to learn,” Carnefix had said. Carnefix 
mentioned this post-graduate plan to 
Robinson. “You’re the right size,” he 
told me.


I asked Robinson what a good size 
for a bull rider is. (I am 5-foot-9.)
“ ’Bout your size,” he said.


We stood around watching the 
bulls leave their temporary pens and 
trot up into the trailers in which they’d 
ride down to Hartford. Eventually, I 
asked Robinson about Chicken on a 
Chain. He’d bought the bull on a farm 
somewhere in north Georgia.
“It was kind of creepy,” Robinson 
began. “It was a junky, junky set-up.” A 
boy about ten years old met him. “His 
teeth were all rotten, and he looked 
he was on meth. He said, ‘Hey mister! 
You come to get this motherfucker?’” 
Robinson looked at the bull, a huge 
animal even by bovine standards. “He’s 
the meanest Goddamn bitch you ever 
seen,” the boy said, “and his name’s 
Chicken on a Chain.” Robinson asked 
for an explanation, and the boy obliged, 
continuing in the same vein. “That 
cocksucker got into my daddy’s fightin’ 
roosters,” the boy began, indicating a 
hillside behind him, where Robinson 
saw a number of roosters tethered on 
short chains. Apparently the bull had got 
a prize cock’s chain tangled in his hind 
feet and drug the animal around the 
farm, and that was how he got his name.
“That’s the last time I been to north 
Georgia,” concluded Robinson. Turns 
out some folks are too redneck even for 
the country’s biggest producer of bull 
semen. 


I made no effort to determine 
whether Robinson’s story was true.


ickets for two decent seats for 
the weekend came to six hundred 
dollars, but money was no object for the 
devoted bull riding fans of New England 
and New York. Georgina Vitarius, 
the organizer of the Professional Bull 
Riders Bronx Fan Club, led a group of 
about ten fans to Hartford. The Bronx 
group is “mostly single women, sitting in 
their rooms screaming,” she said. “This 
way, you can scream together. You don’t 
feel so alone.”


Vitarius met Cori Bielecki in 
Hartford, and by Sunday, the two had 
become fast friends. Bielecki, a lissom 
31-year-old horsewoman and vegetable 
farmer from Nantucket, is one of the 
riders’ favorite fans. She spends a lot of 
time with them during the tour, and had 
run an errand to Walmart that morning 
to pick up a couple of tanks of propane 
for the show’s opening pyrotechnics. 
Her cowboy boots are covered with the 
riders’ autographs.
“They were drunk as skunks last 
night,” she told me. She’d been out with 
them until 5 a.m. as the cowboys drank, 
flirted, and ordered pizzas. “The girls are 
flocking… They’re just living the little 
rock-star lives that they’ve built for their 
little bull-buckin’ selves,” she said. 
(McCoy, who wears his wedding ring 
when he rides, was not among the group. 
“I like to think that most of the guys are 
here for business,” he told me. If that’s 
not always true of the Americans, it is of 
the Brazilians. “One word—dedication,” 
McCoy said when I asked him about 
their rides this year. “They come a long 
ways with one goal in mind.” Many of 
the Brazilian riders send their winnings 
home to families who can’t support 
themselves otherwise.)


The fact that the riders spend time 
with their fans—at the very least, to sign 
autographs, take photos, and shoot the 
breeze through the fence after a night 
of bull riding—is an important part of 
bull riding’s appeal. “That’s what makes 
this sport great,” said Chuck McCoy, an 
appliance repairman from Bridgeport, 
New York, who isn’t related to the rider. 
As bull riding grows more popular, 
though, it’s inevitably losing some of its 
intimacy.


Chuck McCoy came for the weekend 
with his wife Doreen, who has an album 
filled with autographed photos of 
herself with bull riders, and they would 
be traveling to Las Vegas at the end of 
the month for the championships.


The McCoys have been bull riding 
fans for about eight years. When the 
tour came to Mohegan Sun last year, the 
bullfighters, who are officially the Dickies 
DuraBullFighters and who are also Built 
Ford Tough, were sent to a hardware 
store in the small town of Colchester, 
Connecticut to meet fans and advertise 
Dickies jeans. Even though Colchester 
is half an hour away from the casino in 
Uncasville, the McCoys followed them.
“No one knew who they were,” 
Chuck said. “People were going in there, 
buying garden supplies, their pet food. 
Nobody was there.” Doreen wrote a 
letter to Dickies, letting them know the 
McCoys felt the company had gone too 
far. Everyone involved in bull riding is 
expected to be accessible to their fans.


The McCoys weren’t the only ones 
nervous about the sport’s future. “It’s 
going to get further and further away 
from the fan-rider relationship,” said 
Pete Archibald, a retired well-driller 
from Lyndeborough, New Hampshire. 
“It’ll be like NASCAR, where you can’t 
even get near them.”


The 
comparison 
between 
the 
Professional Bull Riders and the National 
Association of Stock Car Auto Racing is 
often drawn in the press, and Carnefix 
himself 
had 
mentioned 
NASCAR 
earlier in the weekend. Though the 
sport is now receiving more airtime, not 
too long ago, sports shows’ highlight 
sequences only included wrecks and 
drivers with comical names. In the same 
way, Carnefix explained, sports shows 
feature bull riding only when a bull picks 
up a rider on his horns and tosses him, 
especially if the rider has a name like 
Ryan Dirteater.


I asked Murray if he thought that 
bull riding could continue to expand 
without straining the riders’ relationships 
to their fans. “I think it’s tough. I think 
it’s a balancing act,” he answered. The 
former world champion keeps his own 
personal cell phone number private. 
“People are looking back to when there 
were fifty people that wanted to meet 
the guy. Now there are fifty thousand 
that want to meet the guy. It just gets 
harder.” But, he concluded, “We’re still 
far and away the most fan-friendly and 
accessible sport.”


That may be true, and the bull 
riders’ fans will remain wildly loyal no 
matter what. It’s also true that bull ridin’ 
jus’ ain’t what it used to be. “Years ago, 
we were one big family,” Chuck McCoy 
told me. “Now, you have to kiss ass and 
get down in the dirt just to talk to the 
real cowboys.”


S
aturday night, the riders gathered 
in a concrete-floored room of the 
Civic Center basement, big enough to 
drive a truck through, to draft their bulls 
for the third and final day of riding. At 
traditional rodeos, the riders draw their 
bulls out of a hat, but the Professional 
Bull Riders introduced the draft to add 
an element of strategy to the sport.


The cowboys sat around several 
small round tables with computer 
printouts and markers. The Brazilians 
had a table in the corner.
“Dirteater couldn’t get out on him,” 
I heard one cowboy saying to another.
“Dirteater couldn’t, but you could 
get out on him,” the other said.
“I’m not even gonna try.”


Fabiano Vieira, a rookie from Brazil, 
was the only rider to have qualified on all 
three bulls he’d ridden in the first two 
days of the tournament. He had the 
first pick, and he chose a bull named 
Hannibal.


Tight Rope was the next bull, Luke 
Snyder’s pick.


Then Slim To None, Exotic Justin, 
Tornado Alley.
“L.J., which one? Did you say 
Tornado Alley?”


Flashpoint had bucked off Cord 
McCoy that night, and another rider 
picked the bull McCoy had hoped to 
ride the next day. McCoy chose Real 
Legit on the advice of the guys who 
happened to be standing next to him at 
the time. “You shoot from the hip,” he 
said. He wouldn’t ride Real Legit either, 
and would finish the weekend with only 
four hundred dollars.


Vieira, on the other hand, would ride 
Hannibal the next day and another bull 
named Who Dat in the championship 
round to win the tournament. He’d had 
a perfect weekend, and left Hartford 
with just under forty thousand dollars.


I wasn’t going to leave the 
tournament with a check, nor were any 
of the other fans merging onto Interstate 
91 that afternoon. I was lucky, though, 
to have talked to the real cowboys.
TNJ
Max Ehrenfreund is a senior 
in Davenport College and an 
editor-in-chief of The New 
Journal.


**Title: NO DUMPING**
**Author: Juliana Hanle**
**Page number(s): 30**

New Haven residents fight a plan to fill 
Morris Cove with toxic sludge.



**Title: A Flotilla of Protest**
**Author: Harry Simperingham**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Larry Smith turned the bow of 
his 
weathered, 
flat-bottomed 
skiff toward the Long Island 
Sound. More than forty other sailboats, 
motorboats, and kayaks were moving 
with him. July 10 was the kind of bright 
summer Sunday when sunlight shocks 
the seascape into a series of horizons 
from deck to sky. Before they reached 
the chop and swell of New Haven 
Harbor, the boats turned back across 
the shallower, calmer waters of Morris 
Cove. They swung close to the Pardee 
seawall, where more than a hundred 
protestors waved signs printed in crisp, 
simple black letters. They read, “No 
toxic sludge here!” and “Don’t dump in 
Morris Cove!” A kayaker flew the Jolly 
Roger off his stern, and hand-drawn 
“No Dumping” banners draped the 
flanks of many of the boats. Onshore, 
Mayor John DeStefano, Jr., mugged 
for the press with a child from Morris 
Cove who wore a blue crab costume. 
U.S. Representative Rosa DeLauro stood 
nearby, her back to the seawall, using a 
megaphone to express her support for 
the protestors in their fight against the 
United States Army Corps of Engineers’ 
plan to dump contaminated material in 
the cove.


The flotilla circumnavigated the 
cove twice, passing the soft gray beach, 
the seawall, the canted auburn cliffs, and 
then the sound’s great blue expanse. The 
boats ran along the outermost moorings 
of the New Haven Yacht Club, really 
more of a working man’s boating 
cooperative, where Smith is a senior 
member, and floated through where the 
sailors and their children swim. Their 
keels traced a sea-floor anomaly that 
the boaters could not see, a rectangular 
trench 2,450 by 650 feet, where the cove 
floor sinks more than a fathom below its 
surrounding bed. The edge of the trench 
is less than five hundred feet from shore. 
Decades earlier, Morris Cove had given 
a strip of its gravel and sand sea floor to 
the construction of Interstate 95, leaving 
a depression, or borrow pit, beneath its 
waters. And in February 2010, the Army 
Corps announced its intention to fill the 
borrow pit with toxic debris.



**The Silt of Time: Bridgeport's Harbor and the Fight for its Future**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A
t the time of Christ’s birth, the 
largest city in the world after Rome 
was Ephesus, home to the Temple of 
Artemis. One thousand years later, 
Ephesus had become a small village, 
rendered insignificant to the world by 
the silting of its harbor. Contemporary 
Bridgeport is struggling with what could 
be its own demise by dirt.


Bridgeport is one of Connecticut’s 
three deep-sea ports (New Haven and 
New London are the other two), and 
its location at a nexus of highways 
and railroad lines makes it a desirable 
shipping destination. But Bridgeport 
Harbor has not been dredged since 1964, 
and when navigation channels grow 
too shallow, the large shipping vessels 
that bring petroleum and other goods 
must unload their cargo offshore. Many 
companies move on to new destination 
ports. Turbana, the banana importer, left 
Bridgeport for Philadelphia in 2008.


Bridgeport’s unemployment rate 
has been rising—it was around 13 
percent this fall—and the city has passed 
anti-blight ordinances to prohibit the 
accumulation of debris like tires or 
abandoned cars on private property. 
While the city’s economic problems have 
other causes besides stagnant shipping, 
the restoration of old trade patterns and 
the construction of new might help the 
city achieve recovery.


The Panama Canal is currently in 
the middle of an expansion—its first 
ever—that is scheduled to be completed 
in three years. The canal is adding a new 
lane of traffic and locks on both its 
Atlantic and Pacific sides. The expansion 
could increase the number of massive 
shipping tankers passing from Asia to 
the eastern United States by 30 percent 
and would also admit tankers twice to 


in materials produced after 1979, but 
because they do not break down, 
PCBs leak from old waste and tend 
to accumulate in fish and sediment. 
The Army Corps has used CAD cell 
technology intended to contain these 
urban and industrial pollutants in other 
New England harbors. Boston, Norwich, 
and New London all have cells installed 
by the Army Corps, which is obligated to 
maintain federal navigation channels at 
the request of port agencies. When the 
Bridgeport Port Authority pushed for a 
dredging plan, they likely didn’t have the 
use of Morris Cove in mind.


Last fall, the protesters gathered 
2,200 signatures for a petition against 
the dumping proposal, hoping to put 
pressure on public officials before 
the midterm election. By October 30, 
2010, they had won the public support 
of DeStefano, DeLauro, and then-
gubernatorial candidate Dannel Malloy, 
who all showed up to that Saturday’s 
shore-bound protest. But while Malloy 
condemned the Morris Cove disposal, 
he emphasized that he also thought 
dredging in Bridgeport was important 
for the state’s economy.


The 
Army 
Corps’s 
case 
for 
dumping in Morris Cove is threefold. 
First, it saves Bridgeport and the federal 
government millions of dollars. Second, 
it fills an unnatural hole that has very 
little biological activity. Third, the new 
CAD cell would create twenty-four 
more acres of oyster habitat in Morris 
Cove. The Covers, on the other hand, 
fear the pollution of their cove and their 
backyards. But more important, they 
worry that the Corps doesn’t entirely 
know what it is doing.


Smith and fellow Morris Cover 
Ben Northrup organized the floating 
protest, entreating neighbors and up-
river yacht club members to bring their 
voices and their vessels. The boating 
community rallied, filling the cove on 
that midsummer day with members 
of more than five other boating clubs. 
These boaters, and Smith, felt that 
storing contaminated sludge in the inlet 
just didn’t make sense—not when they 
had been watching New Haven Harbor 
begin to get clean again, the fish return, 
and the cove’s waters brighten and clear.


The dumping in Morris Cove that 
Smith and his neighbors are fighting is a 
crucial component of the Army Corps’s 
plan for dredging Bridgeport’s shipping 
channels. The Army Corps proposes 
relocating 197,000 cubic yards of toxic 
mud to Morris Cove. The waste would 
travel the twenty-five miles by barge, 
descend in a plume into the pit, and then 
spend the next nine months settling into 
its new home. At that point the Corps 
would return to cap the refuse with a 
Confined Aquatic Disposal (CAD) cell 
seal, a scab of clean material. The entire 
$42 million project would generate ten 
times as much waste as would be stored 
in Morris Cove, but the rest would go 
into a new CAD cell in Bridgeport 
Harbor, with the material rated “suitable 
for open water disposal” released at a 
designated site in the sound.


The waste to be stored in Morris 
Cove contains high concentrations 
of chemicals called polychlorinated 
biphenyls (PCBs) and dangerous heavy 
metals. The metals can cause respiratory 
and gastrointestinal damage, but it is 
the PCBs that rile the Covers. These 
well-known carcinogens were banned 



**Title: Dredging the Harbor**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
November 2011
money comes straight from Congress, 
with the exception of a percentage that 
the Bridgeport Port Authority will have 
to raise itself. Use of the Morris Cove 
borrow pit would put two million dollars 
less stress on that organization (which 
has its own financial woes). As it states in 
its draft proposal, the Army Corps must 
find the least expensive, environmentally 
acceptable disposal option. And the 
Corps does make a case for the CAD 
cell improving the marine environment 
in Morris Cove.


The Army Corps classifies the 
Morris Cove dumping as a “beneficial 
use” disposal option. Project manager 
Michael Keegan argues that raising the 
sea floor (though pit won’t be filled 
entirely) would create twenty-four more 
acres of oyster habitat and end the 
seasonal formation of an oxygen-poor 
environment within the pit, which can 
hurt marine life. 


Environmental advocates would 
prefer that neither the Morris Cove CAD 
cell nor a second Bridgeport CAD cell 
were built. The best place to move the 
mud would be inland, says Louis Burch, 
the Connecticut program coordinator for 
Citizens Campaign for the Environment, 
a nonprofit organization with eighty 
thousand members in New York and 
Connecticut. Yet this alternative, which 
would require constructing a treatment 
facility to clean the contaminated waste, 
would make the project fourteen times 
as expensive. Burch also likes the idea 
of using the material productively. The 
Army Corps is using some of New 
York’s dredging waste to restore marsh 
islands in Jamaica Bay off Brooklyn and 
Queens. Many alternatives to dumping 
may never be explored because of 
their cost. The Army Corps’s draft


three times as large as those that can 
currently pass through. 


Water-born freight in the eastern 
United States will increase dramatically 
over the next ten years, says Judi 
Sheiffele, executive director of the New 
Haven Port Authority. “The trucks won’t 
be on I-95, they’ll come by water,” she 
says. Sheiffele predicts that a few ports, 
perhaps Virginia’s Norfolk, whose 
channels are fifty feet deep, and the 
New York and Newark harbor, where 
the Army Corps is in the middle of a 
major dredging project, will become 
hubs in a new marine highway system. 
Connecticut’s ports, however, aren’t in 
any condition to take advantage of the 
increase in maritime activity. 


Traffic in all three of Connecticut’s 
deepwater 
ports—Bridgeport, 
New 
Haven, 
and 
London—has 
decreased by 30 percent in recent 
years, largely as a result of siltification. 
Connecticut’s 
maritime 
industry 
generates $2.7 billion in economic 
activity every year and supports thirty 
thousand jobs. The decline of these 
harbors hurts the health of the state, not 
just individual cities. 


At the end of September, the state 
of Connecticut began searching for a 
consultant to evaluate its current markets 
and transportation infrastructure and 
to strategize how it can best prepare 
for the expansion. Upon his election, 
Malloy proposed allocating fifty million 
dollars to the revitalization of the ports, 
but for now each port will have to work 
individually to improve its infrastructure. 
Part of the difficulty of re-establishing 
the ports is the absence of a governing 
body in charge of the state’s waterfront. 


The New Haven Port Authority 
shares Morris Cove residents’ worry that 
the Army Corps’s plan puts Bridgeport’s 
interests ahead of New Haven’s. New 
Haven Harbor is due for its own 
decennial maintenance dredging, and 
the borrow pit may be needed for the 
city’s own dirt. Sheiffele says that New 
Haven’s dredge material is much less 
toxic than Bridgeport’s and has been 
deemed suitable for open water disposal. 
In a letter to the Army Corps last April, 
Sheiffele wrote that the current plan 
to use the Morris Cove borrow pit 
for Bridgeport’s waste could increase 
the cost of New Haven’s planned 
maintenance dredge. Rights to use the 
pit are particularly important in light 
of the imminent closing of the Central 
Long Island dump site, the open-water 
disposal location previously used by 
New Haven, scheduled for 2013.


The current Bridgeport plan is 
estimated to cost $42.1 million. The 
alternative, which would require building 
a second CAD cell in Bridgeport harbor, 
would cost $7.6 million more. The 

Photo: Harry Simperingham
Above: The harbor 
as seen from New 
Haven Towers 
at the corner of 
Crown and York 
Streets. Previous 
page: an industrial 
site along the 
harbor’s edge.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
34
The New Journal
environmental 
assessment 
examines 
using the sludge to construct islands, 
blending it into cement, and turning 
the waste into landscaping soil after 
treatment, and they are all too expensive. 
B
arbara Blumeris, a planner for the 
Army Corps, is frustrated. “It’s just 
a hole,” she says. Blumeris and Keegan 
haven’t yet finished presenting their 
proposal to the residents of Morris 
Cove, but their audience refuses to 
cooperate. It is April 2010, and at the 
first of two required public hearings, the 
Covers have arrived with angry posters 
and pointed questions. 
Claudia Bosch, a Cover since 2003, 
has armed her daughter for the hearing 
with a sign nearly as large as the five-year-
old that reads “No Toxic Carcinogenic 
Sludge in Morris Cove!”
A few weeks earlier, Bosch, a stay-
at-home mom, took a call from a friend 
in her small, bright house on Townsend 
Avenue, two blocks from the ocean. 
Ward 18 Alderman Alyne Depino was 
going door-to-door, Bosch’s friend said, 
asking neighbors to attend a public 
hearing about a waste disposal project in 
the cove.
“Initially, I did not want to go,” 
Bosch says. “I thought, ‘Oh, it’s going 
to be all right.’” But then she read the 
proposal online. Bosch was alarmed 
not only by the long list of toxins in the 
sludge and the nine-month period for 
which it would lie uncovered, but also 
by the way the writers of the document 
seemed unaware of important details 
about Morris Cove. Though Morris 
Cove is in New Haven, it shares a zip 
code with East Haven, she explained, 
and the Army Corps’s proposal used 
East Haven demographic data. “When 
you don’t get right which community is 
where,” she wondered, “what else are 
you not getting right?”
She began trawling for more 
information online. First she pulled 
all the surveys and data related to the 
Bridgeport project. She found a chart 
with a skull printed by the materials to 
be placed in open water. “I just had to 
chuckle,” she says. She felt that if the 
waste deemed suitable for open water 
disposal got a single skull, the Morris 
Cove mud should get three. She found 
the Army Corps’s report on its use of 
Morris Cove’s pit for the disposal of 
materials from a comparatively small 
New Haven Coast Guard Station 
dredging in 2000. The report concludes, 
“It is recommended that the borrow pit 
continue to be used for the placement of 
small to moderate volumes of sediment 
deemed suitable for unconfined open 
water disposal.” Bosch sees the current 
plan as a reversal. “Now it’s the placement 
of a large volume of sediment deemed 
unsuitable and the question is, what 
made you change that?” she says, raising 
her voice. “When you haven’t even done 
your homework!”
That 
study 
also 
reveals 
that 
midwinter ice and high winds delayed 
the completion of the dumping from 
the Coast Guard station, suggesting that 
future contaminated waste may have to 
sit uncapped longer than anticipated. 
The Army Corps would have to abandon 
Morris Cove work in February, whether 
the dumping had been completed or not, 
because the cove is one of few places 
where the winter flounder spawns. 
If weather interferes with transport 
between Bridgeport and New Haven 
and the dumping is postponed, the 
waste may remain uncapped for another 
season in addition to the required nine-
month settling period.
Bosch eventually collected reports 
on CAD cell use from as far afield as 
Rotterdam, yet of all the data she found, 
her favorite statistic is one provided 
by the Army Corps itself. During the 
nine-month settling period at least one 
percent of the contaminants will remain 
suspended in the water surrounding 
the waste deposit, even in the best-case 
scenario. Bosch worried about that one 
percent. Her children swim in that water. 
At the April meeting, she and the 
other Covers ask Keegan and Blumeris: 
would the Army Corps inadvertently 
poison them? The Army Corps’s 
representatives answer as best they 
can, referring to their slides once more. 
The meeting ends. The Covers are left 
feeling uneasy and angry. But they know 
a second public hearing is still to come. 
A 
year and a half later, Bosch explains 
her reaction to that night and the 
moment when Blumeris muttered, “It’s 
just a hole.” Bosch says, “That attitude, 
‘We know how nature works, we have 
everything under control,’—that makes 
me very uneasy.” She speaks more 
quietly than normal, feeling her way 
through her thoughts. That confidence, 
which she calls “arrogance,” reminds her 
of the disastrous failure of the levees in 
New Orleans six years ago. 
“We have everything under control 
because we did those little studies in the 
laboratory,” she says ironically.
Five 
months 
after 
the 
April 
meeting, Bosch’s friend and neighbor 
Ben Northrup asked her to drive to 
Bridgeport with him for that city’s public 
meeting with the Army Corps. It would 
be a tedious way to spend an evening, 
but it would prove they were serious, 
Northrup thought. So he and Bosch sat 
in a University of Bridgeport recital hall 
and watched the same presentation from 
a half a year earlier. The Army Corps had


---
At least 1 percent 
of the 
contaminants 
will remain 
suspended in the 
water surrounding 
the waste deposit. 
Bosch worried 
about that 1 
percent. Her 
children swim in 
that water.


35
November 2011
pointed questions would be needed to 
stop the dumping. That was when the 
organization New Haven Protecting 
Our Water!, or NHPOWer!, was born. 
“When I came home the same night 
I knew we had to do something—I 
started mobilizing friends,” Bosch says. 
Their first goal was to convince the 
Army Corps to return to the Cove for a 
proper hearing.
The Army Corps came back to 
New Haven in late October, armed with 
a slideshow to explain their reasoning 
to the 120 residents in attendance. The 
explanation of why PCBs wouldn’t 
contaminate the cove consisted of a 
single bullet point: “- contaminants 
largely remain on sediment.” The Army 
Corps presented a series of graphs 
illustrating how Bridgeport’s levels of 
PCBs were much lower than those of 
many other New England ports. The 
graphs also showed that Bridgeport’s 
harbor has a concentration of the toxic 
particles that, between 100 and 560 
particles per billion, is three times as 
high as New Haven’s (which is less than 
190 ppb) and is highly contaminated 
(fish sold over state lines aren’t allowed 
to have a concentration higher than 2 
ppb).
Toward the end of his presentation, 
Keegan pulled up a two-tone graphic. It 
showed a house, a slope, the water line, 
and a trench, and, swooping down under 
them, an arrow, curled like the top half 
of a re-curved bow, to represent the 
downward flow of water into Morris 
Cove. No land infiltration of the toxic 
waste would occur, the Corps explained, 
because of gravity. “It’s a matter of 
physics… Water doesn’t flow uphill,” 
Keegan explains a year later. Bosch 
thought the image might make sense for 
Nathan Hale School, a mile up from the 
Cove on Forbes bluff, where the meeting 
was being held. But the houses in her 
neighborhood, down the hill, all collect 
sand in their backyards, and the residents 
use sump pumps to keep basements dry 
during heavy rains. 
As Bosch recalls, the engineers 
dropped lead into a container of water 
to show that it would settle to the 
bottom. “Then a Cover asked, ‘Are you 
aware that your model might not be 
not revised it to address contaminant 
infiltration in Morris Cove. Afterward, 
Bosch approached Keegan and asked 
when the second required public hearing 
would take place. Keegan told her it just 
had.
Bosch decided then that she had 
been participating only in the illusion 
of public discourse. She says she saw 
that the Corps was fully committed 
to the Morris Cove version of the 
dredging plan and was not prepared to 
make changes in response to the 
citizens’ views. More force than a few 


A depth chart 
shows the Morris 
Cove  trench, which 
sinks to a depth of 
about thirty feet 
below the surface.
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers


36
the reality here? Because there is the 
seawall.’” Seawalls reflect the energy of 
waves back into the sea, meaning each 
tide shifts more sediment.
“Which wall?” Barbara Blumeris 
asked in response. The Morris Cove 
residents were stunned. They felt as if 
they’d fallen off the map of sensible 
procedure. Some Covers laughed—had 
the engineers ever even visited the site? 
they wondered.
Bosch decided that they hadn’t. 
Indeed, the Army Corps’s 154-page 
assessment does not mention the 
seawall. The entire document addresses 
Morris Cove very little. A single sentence 
classifies the water quality of the cove as 
severely polluted, contradicting another 
Army Corps study from 2000 that states 
the cove is far cleaner than Bridgeport 
Harbor. 
That was that. The Army Corps 
of Engineers, Bosch and NHPOWer! 
concluded, could not be trusted.
“W
hat about a vigilante midnight 
hole-filling party?” A few 
people laugh, but the woman who spoke 
sounds maybe a bit too enthusiastic. 
Someone else suggests, sarcastically, 
inviting the Army Corps to an oyster 
bake with the CAD cell shellfish. 
The eight attendees of a NHPOWer! 
meeting October 4 sit above the Morris 
Cove fire station’s garage, facing Bosch 
and Northrup, the group’s acting heads. 
The group is planning its next steps. 
Last fall, NHPOWer! won both 
media and political attention. Bosch 
jokes that the only elected official whose 
support they’ve yet to win is President 
Barack Obama. But these pledges 
of support have yet to produce any 
new law that would block the Army 
Corps. Members of NHPOWer! fear 
that budgetary constraints may make 
these 
politicians’ 
promises 
brittle. 
Besides, it isn’t elected officials, but the 
Connecticut Department of Energy and 
Environmental Protection, or DEEP, 
that will approve or reject the Army 
Corps’s plans. 
The Army Corps only needs two 
things before proceeding with the 
dredging and disposal: funding from 
Congress and approval from DEEP. 
Funding, Keegan says, is two years away 
at best. Between the fiscal years of 2010 
and 2012, the Army Corps’ overall budget 
will decrease by more than $900 million. 
Keegan does not seem concerned about 
receiving DEEP approval. The Army 
Corps and DEEP often work together, 
and 
state 
representatives 
attended 
the informational meetings. Sheiffele, 
though, is not as confident. DEEP 

A tug beside a pier in the New Haven Harbor.
Harry Simperingham



**Title: Morris Cove**
**Author: Juliana Hanle**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
37
November 2011
remained silent as controversy built 
over the last year and a half, and she is 
inclined to think the department might 
ask the Army Corps to revise its plan. 
“The only thing hard to gauge is 
how much latitude the Army Corps 
has,” Larry Smith, who is attending the 
meeting, concludes.

Bosch refuses to rely on last year’s 
good faith, particularly in light of the 
project’s delay. The residents have been 
relying on shock appeal to galvanize 
the surrounding community. Some 
members of NHPOWer! are concerned 
about losing popular following. “Their 
hope is that in a few years enough of us 
will forget so they can slip it through,” 
Northrup says of the Army Corps. By 
the end of the meeting, the residents 
have resolved to begin letter-writing 
campaigns to both this year’s incoming 
aldermen and Senators Joe Lieberman 
and Richard Blumenthal. 

Morris Cover Robert Castiglione 
had spoken up early in the meeting. 
That morning he’d watched, through 
binoculars, a large boat dragging a flat 
plate through the water and periodically 
raising and rinsing it for three hours in 
the section of cove facing his house.

Keegan explains that the Army 
Corps is conducting additional research 
into water current velocities, salinity, and 
quality within the pit, as measured by 
platforms installed in the cove bed for 
sixty days, because the public wants more 
information—not because the Army 
Corps feels any more is needed. “All of 
our data tells us there is no impact at all,” 
Keegan says. But he emphasizes that the 
engineers will evaluate the additional 
information. “I wouldn’t have done the 
surveys if I didn’t have an open mind,” 
he says. Even if Keegan has an open 
mind, it’s hard to imagine what could 
swing the Army Corps’s financially 
loaded decision.

It’s clear that the Army Corps is 
focused on minimizing its expenses. 
Keegan has never hidden that. The 
goals of NHPOWer!’s are even more 
transparent. But it’s not obvious how 
influence and legal authority will 
combine to determine whether the 
disposal goes through. So far, the 
conflict has consisted largely of drawing 
lines and recruiting troops. For now, the 
Morris Cove residents can only continue 
consolidating support among residents 
and elected officials.

A
utumn on Morris Cove means it’s 
time to raise the sailboats out of the 
water and put them up on blocks. Only 
a few weeks remain until the oystermen 
arrive to harvest the bottom feeders. 
Kids bike up and down the sidewalks, 
rolling over pressed, wet leaves.

It’s October once more. Larry Smith 
circles the borrow pit in an 18-foot skiff. 
The air smells of healthy brine, the sea 
is calm, and the cove’s sailboats point 
their noses into a soft, dusk breeze. The 
engine is cut, and high pings mark the 
sound of halyards slapping the vessel’s 
metal masts. The hole stretches nearly a 
half-mile, centered under an imaginary 
line that runs from an outcropping on 
the southern edge of the cove to the 
auburn cliffs beneath Fort Nathan Hale. 
Smith can’t see it below the dark surface 
of the sea.

An airhorn wails from a few 
moorings away, and the skiff motors 
over to pick up two sailors and ferry 
them back to the dock. They look like 
Smith: sun-tanned and white-haired, of 
an age to have spent Vietnam avoiding 
the draft by service in the Peace Corps 
and then teaching in the New York 
City public school system, as Smith did. 
Smith then spent his career teaching 
special-needs students at their homes. 
The sailors’ faded jeans and dull white 
shirts match the worn shades of the 
cove and its boat hulls. Smith explains 
that he was checking out the hole and 
they tease him about his determination 
to keep the damn thing clean. 

The moorings extend right up to the 
edge of the hole. “One member swears 
he’s in the pit every year,” Smith says. 
The man is convinced that his anchor 
drags in the pit and, Smith concedes, 
“He might be right.” Smith is sure that 
the resistance to the dumping plan won’t 
weaken, as the most vehement protestors 
live and sail from this spot. It was Nick 
Proctor, another senior club member, 
whose daughter first wore the Morris 
Cove protests’ blue crab costume five 
years ago for Halloween. Smith explains 
that the shock that all local boaters 
feel, Covers or not, when they hear the 
proposal, stems from their relationships 
with the waters they sail. They have all 
watched the Long Island Sound grow 
cleaner over the last two decades. “It 
doesn’t feel spiritually right to fill the pit 
with contaminants when the trend has 
been to improve,” he says. 

Much of the fervor with which 
citizens have reacted to the plan to dump 
Bridgeport’s waste in the cove is powered 
by those feelings. Smith explains that 
people react primally, territorially, to 
the plan. Residents think things like, 
“‘They’re going to dump their shit in my 
harbor? No way!’” He gazes across the 
flat grey plain of sleeping sea and sky. 
The Army Corps engineers, Smith says, 
“don’t have any poetry.” 

When the sun sets today, it is a slow, 
hazy descent. One of the houses a few 
rows back from the cove has been home 
to Robert Castiglione for more than 
sixty years. Castiglione is firmly opposed 
to the Army Corps’ disposal plan. “Not 
in my backyard,” he says emphatically. 
Castiglione is no less self-interested 
than the other actors in this underwater 
drama. Keegan wants to finish the job, 
Bridgeport wants increased shipping 
access, and elected officials want to be 
re-elected. Though money and influence 
motivate them, they’re ultimately limited 
by the natural environment, which 
always has tended to resist the control 
of sailors and engineers alike.

Smith circles it in his skiff. The 
Army Corps proposal turns on it. So 
now do the lives of the other Covers.
There is a hole in Morris Cove.
TNJ
Juliana Hanle is a junior in 
Davenport College and a 
managing editor of The New 
Journal.


**Title: The Tinkerers**
**Author: Sophia Nguyen**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

38
The New Journal
The Tinkerers
Apprentices at the Eli Whitney Museum 
learn to work with their hands.
By Sophia Nguyen
9-year-old boys whose teachers wanted 
them “tamed.” But to Brown, their 
misbehavior was not the real problem. 
“Being the smartest kid in the school 
is the problem,” he says. “This is a 
fairly common paradox, where natural 
mechanics are told that they’re losers. 
They’ve never been told, ‘You are 
magical at this.’” 

Through his work at the Eli Whitney 
Museum and Workshop, Brown tries 
to reach those with a different kind of 
intelligence, “people who see big pictures 
so intricate that English is inadequate” to 
describe them. Over the course of our 
conversation, he talks about accountants, 
religious mystics, dyslexics, and origami 
artists, saying, “They’re fascinated by 
intricacies, while other kids are caught 
up in the thematic lines of the Smurfs.” 
According to him, these are students 
who can’t sit still in a classroom, but 
become utterly absorbed by imagining 
esoteric mechanical processes.

Various treasures rest here and 
there in the museum staff offices: a set 


--- Page 39 ---

39
of wooden elephants, a metal acrobat 
held up by spindly limbs, other personal 
tokens from beloved students. There’s a 
large wooden worktable at the back and 
rows of plastic tubs filled with model 
boats and houses. They’re products of 
the museum’s workshop, which I visited 
on a Sunday in September when it was 
humming with activity. In uniforms 
of red t-shirts and safety goggles, high 
school-age apprentices sand surfaces 
and bore holes, cutting once and 
measuring twice. Amidst the sawdust 
and clamor, their seriousness of purpose 
and brisk competence, there are snatches 
of color: the red of their shirts, the aqua 
of a boy’s dyed hair, the wooden cat 
dolls being painted by a birthday party 
of younger children. The apprentices’ 
productivity is totally unlike the way I 
work as a Yale student. They are busy 
without being harried, focusing on their 
tasks with attention that isn’t scattered 
by multitasking. Everyone is utterly 
absorbed in their given duty. 

The museum staff runs this 
apprenticeship program for students 
ages 13 through 18 in addition to offering 
workshops and visiting classrooms in 
schools. The apprentices, nicknamed 
“redshirts,” work at the museum for 
approximately five hours a week during 
the school year, and longer over summer 
vacations. In exchange, they receive 
a stipend and considerable training, 
and become involved in all of the 
museum’s operations. They master tools, 
assemble kits, and conduct workshops 
with visitors, eventually designing their 
own projects to add to the museum’s 
collection. 

Brown and the museum staff 
constantly emphasize the importance 
of experimentation. They’re believers 
in the serious business of tinkering, 
and in the generative qualities of what 
most would call play. When they visit 
a classroom, it becomes a much more 
open space. However briefly, the work 
can present students with new and 
tangible 
challenges—challenges 
that 
occur in real time, with specific shapes 
and demonstrable consequences. This 
kind of challenge can only arise while 
working with your hands towards a 
particular goal: turning a wheel, igniting 
a spark.

T
he Eli Whitney Museum and 
Workshop collects “experiments.” 
Established in 1979, the red brick 
building on Whitney Avenue is located 
on the site of Eli Whitney’s historic 
factory in Hamden, which introduced 
mass production to the United States. 
Whitney was the first to give each worker 
a specific task in the manufacturing 
process. The image of his factory is 
well-known from history textbooks 
containing William Gyles Munson’s 
idyllic painting “The Eli Whitney Gun 
Factory.”

The museum outside the workshop 
is quieter. Here, exhibits are sectioned 
off in their own domain. A glassed-in 
model of the old factory stands silent. 
Waiting to be illuminated by the push of 
a button, miniature workers are frozen in 
their labor, each bending to his assigned 
task, forever striving towards their boss’s 
dream of uniform production.

The apprentices in the museum’s 
workshop, by contrast, are in constant 
motion. As Brown leads me on a tour 
he calls our “walking interview,” some 
of the teenagers stop us to ask him 
questions. They politely ignore my 
blank stares that betray an inability to 
visualize the dimensions they discuss, 
the screws and braces they name, and 
the difficulties they’ve encountered in 
building. They have developed a friendly 
but impenetrable jargon precisely for 
this space.

“I’ll be okay if we don’t finish the 
balancing circuses today,” Brown tells 
one student. “But we should finish the 
boats.”

Brown referred to two of the 
workshop’s projects. Where the workers 
of the old factory once built guns, 
the seven full-time staff and seventy-
five apprentices now manufacture kits 
containing the materials for models and 
science experiments—seventy thousand 
a year. These kits are designed to teach 
science concepts to younger students, 
ranging from kindergarten to the eighth 
grade. The kits and the museum’s 
accompanying educational programs 
bring in approximately one million 
dollars annually, comprising 72 percent 
of the organization’s revenue. Other 
sources of income include the field 
trips that educators from the museum 
make to public and private schools in 
Connecticut and New York to conduct 
workshops in classrooms. The museum 
also earns money from visitors, usually 
families with young children, who 
assemble projects together on weekends 
or come in for birthday parties. Many 
attend the special programs held during 
school vacations, weaving scarves over 
winter break and designing tests for 
superhero-themed crash dummies over 
the summer. The rest of the museum’s 
revenue comes from First Factory 
products, projects sold wholesale to 
summer camps or local teachers.

These projects are the museum’s 
educational mission in a box. Designed 
to fulfill Connecticut standards for 
science curricula from kindergarten 
through eighth grade, each is intended to 
be easily completed in a classroom and 
to promote engagement with concepts 
through physical contact with materials. 
To learn about electricity, students build 
Unless they’re given 
this tacit license 
to explore, kids 
will churn out 
replicas utterly 
indistinguishable 
from the model, 
following directions 
and learning little.



**The New Journal**
**Author: Tory Burnside-Clapp**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
40
The New Journal
a basic circuit and battery pack, with 
the goal of lighting up a model house. 
To learn about energy and inertia, they 
build cars out of wooden wheels, rubber 
bands, and mousetraps. 

Conducting these programs, the 
staff is dismayed by what they see as a 
lack of creative drive in today’s students. 
According to Sally Hill, the museum’s 
associate director and principal designer, 
teaching to the test has fostered a 
generation that constantly asks, “Is this 
okay? Is this right?”, often to the exclusion 
of more pressing questions. “They’re 
driven by a culture of ‘get it right, get 
an A,’ ” she says. “These are kids who 
take no risks.” These days, the museum’s 
educators no longer show “unelaborated 
models,” as Hill calls them, to classes. All 
examples are decorated, messed-with, 
or otherwise personalized beforehand. 
Unless they’re given this tacit license 
to explore, kids will churn out replicas 
utterly indistinguishable from the model, 
following directions and learning little.

Brown argues that it is more 
important today than ever before that 
students learn through mentorship. 
He was profoundly influenced by his 
mentor, Normand Method, a cabinet-
maker and teacher who Brown says 
would try anything. Method instilled in 
Brown a passionate belief in learning’s 
“liberating function,” freeing doctors 
to become woodworkers, and making 
woodworkers realize that they can attend 
MIT seminars on electricity.

However, there is a dearth of 
mentorship in American classrooms 
today, Brown says, due in part to two 
things: schools which are pressed to 
meet state and federal benchmarks, and 
the monopoly that universities have on 
higher education. Universities dominate 
most young people’s visions of their 
future advancement even if they do not 
learn well in a traditional classroom. As 
a result, many have forgotten to stop to 
ask what they should be. 

“The university system is not much 
different from the housing bubble.” 
Brown claims. “It’s a great mechanism 
to make people borrow money.” Though 
higher education is often valuable, he 


---

41
November 2011



**Author: Sophia Nguyen**
**Page number(s): 42**

42
TNJ
Sophia Nguyen is a sophomore 
in Jonathan Edwards College.
says, “It’s a suspicious product for the 
amount of money.” 

Sara Thomas, an educator at the 
museum, agrees. An art teacher at a 
magnet school for eight years, she grew 
frustrated with a system that conveyed 
her students to colleges that they couldn’t 
afford. Wishing to be able simply to 
teach kids skills again, she joined the 
staff of the museum several weeks ago. 

Brown and Thomas insist that 
there must be some way for young 
people to seek out meaningful learning 
experiences after high school, outside of 
two and four-year colleges: journeymen’s 
programs, for instance, or engineering 
internships. In our first email exchange, 
Brown asked, “You don’t get into Yale 
without 
a 
bookish 
predisposition. 
But what if you had wanted to be an 
electrician? Are there schools for deep 
thinking electricians?  Are there schools 
that offer electricians a cultural/social 
experience equivalent to that part of 
your experience [at] Yale?” Is it possible, 
he asks, to have an Ivy League for auto 
mechanics?

This unique educational perspective 
is refreshing, but also somewhat 
alienating to visitors. The Eli Whitney 
staff members often refer to people 
as “outsiders,” though their tone 
is surprisingly free of judgment or 
suspicion. The usage seems protectively 
insular, as though the staff members 
feel they must defend their pursuit 
of an educational model that has 
been declared obsolete in America. 
Hill, catching herself using the word, 
explains, “It’s hard. We’re not typical 
in any way.” When pressed as to why, 
Karen Lenahan, the museum manager 
laughs, “Have you seen our office?” 
According to Lenahan, the museum 
has adjusted to the recession by working 
harder to book programs at schools, 
though their contribution lines have 
remained steady. Such community loyalty 
has sustained this small organization 
despite a humble and unfashionable 
mission, and will continue to do so 
during times of fiscal hardship.

In fact, while businesses and nonprofits 
alike are trimming down wherever 
possible, the Eli Whitney Museum and 
Workshop has plans for growth. They 
have begun to raise funds for a $200,000 
project: a 1,000-square foot expansion 
of the Design and Development 
Workshop to house a new computer 
numerical control robot alongside the 
one that was purchased three years ago. 
The CNC can scan a design to fabricate 
three-dimensional objects. The museum 
staff usually refers to it as “the Robot” 
in their pamphlets, or, conversationally, 
as “the Machine.”

Hill jokes that the museum divides 
its history into two periods, pre-
Machine and post-Machine. Where an 
apprentice would once be tasked with 
drilling holes into hundreds of strips 
of wood, that job is now dispatched by 
the Machine with greater precision and 
speed. As a result, staple projects have 
been sharpened, made more beautiful, 
their constituent parts now fitting 
together more smoothly. The Machine 
also can produce prototypes practically 
on demand, enabling iterations of 
new projects that can be refined more 
quickly. More importantly, Hill says, 
it has expanded their sense of what is 
possible for their designs.

The specter of automation does not 
worry Hill. The Eli Whitney Museum 
and Workshop is far from eliminating 
the human element from their work, 
and even farther from devaluing the 
process of learning by doing. In order 
to design well with the robot, you first 
have to play with materials by hand. As 
apprentices advance, delegating tedious 
tasks can only improve their educational 
experience, allowing them to invest 
more time and energy in design and 
invention. To that effect, the museum 
has created the Norm Method Design 
Internship, a semester-long workshop 
intended to help the apprentices build a 
portfolio, a single concession to a world 
that demands résumés.

When Eli Whitney once said 
that his factory was producing 
armorers as well as arms, he meant it 
regretfully. His goal had been to phase 
out skilled labor in favor of simple, 
reproducible motions not subject to 
human variance.  This industrial ethos, 
which used workers as interchangeable 
and replaceable bits, would not be fully 
developed until over a century after he 
established his firearms factory in 1798. 
Today, the museum that bears his name 
takes as its mission the continuation of 
the historical moment that Whitney was 
impatient to move beyond: when the 
energy of innovation and the zest of 
enterprise were balanced by production 
on a human scale, when there was dignity 
and craft in manufacturing. “We are not 
naïve,” reads the museum’s fund-raising 
literature. “We don’t forsee, or need, the 
steadily growing markets we enjoyed for 
the last ten years...We want to save—as 
only a computer can—the intricate and 
nuanced dimensions of our designs.”

Construction on the new building 
has already begun; as of mid-September, 
a space had been cleared, and in the 
intervening week between my visits, the 
first framed wall was erected. Gleaming 
with the paleness of new wood, the site 
resembled Munson’s landscape more 
closely today than ever before.

“The university 
system is not much 
different from the 
housing bubble. It’s 
a great mechanism to 
make people borrow 
money.”



**Title: Working Definition**
**Author: Ben Kline**
**Page number(s): 43-45**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
43
November 2011
Working Definition
Yale tries for a second time to establish 
a program for researching and studying 
the hatred of Jews in the 
contemporary world. 
By Ben Kline
CRITICAL ANGLE               
P
rofessor Maurice Samuels took 
the podium and sighed. “As many 
of you know,” he said, “this has 
not been an easy summer.” To me, it 
didn’t look like those in attendance—
faculty members, elderly New Haven 
couples, and a few undergraduates 
informed of the lecture through the 
Directed Studies program or the Polish 
Club—had found their way to the 
Wall Street auditorium on the heels of 
controversy. That September afternoon 
in Yale University’s Whitney Humanities 
Center, 
Samuels 
was 
introducing 
Princeton history professor Jan Gross, 
who would give a lecture called “On the 
Periphery of the Holocaust: Killing and 
Plunder of Jews by their Neighbors.” 


Samuels’s words were a reminder of the 
fierce debate surrounding his program, 
which made the afternoon’s talk unusual 
among the enormous number of 
department-sponsored lectures on Yale’s 
campus. 
“Professors of nineteenth-century 
literature like myself aren’t usually 
accustomed to the media spotlight,” 
Samuels said. “And I have to admit 
that I was somewhat taken aback by 
the vehemence of the critics I faced on 
both sides of the political spectrum, and 
before I had even done anything.”
What occurred over this past 
summer was, on its surface, little more 
than a bureaucratic shift in the Yale 
academic machine: the Yale Institute 
for the Interdisciplinary Study of 
Antisemitism 
(YIISA, 
pronounced 
“yee-suh”) was shut down and replaced 
almost immediately by the Yale Program 
for the Study of Antisemitism (YPSA, 
“yip-suh”). 
Acronyms 
change, faculty shift their affiliations 
with various boards and institutes: so 
the seasons pass in academia. “YPSA 
will discuss both contemporary anti-
Semitism and historical anti-Semitism,” 
said Samuels, who had just been 
appointed director of the fledgling 
YPSA, in a June 21 statement. “Like 
many, I am concerned by the recent 
upsurge in violence against Jews around 
the world and YPSA will address these 
concerns. I also believe that we benefit 
a great deal by placing current events 
into historical context. YPSA will not 
refrain from exploring any controversial 
contemporary topic.” 
This carefully worded statement 
wasn’t enough to stop the public from 
reacting with ire to the transition. 
Commentators accused Yale of hushing 
dialogue on what former YIISA director 
Charles Small called a “current crisis 
facing Jews” and focusing instead on 
the more politically neutral study of 
historical anti-Semitism. The verb “kill” 
occurred frequently in columns about 
YIISA’s closing. In Slate, in the Wall Street 
Journal, and in many Jewish publications, 
critics accused Yale of allowing leftist 
political sympathies to stifle scholarship 
exposing Muslim anti-Semitism. David 
Greenberg, writing for Slate in July, 
posed a charged question: “How did 
liberalism—historically the philosophy 
of toleration and equal rights—come to 
be so squeamish about confronting Jew-
hatred in its contemporary forms?” 
Jew-hatred. I have a very vivid 
memory of being six years old and 
worrying that a neo-Nazi was going 
to kill my mother. In Illinois, a lawyer 
named Matthew Hale was preaching 
white supremacy and one of his 
followers had shot several Jews walking 
to their synagogue in Chicago. So, 
running errands with my mom, I would 
cross my arms over my chest in a way 
that would cover up the word “Jewish” 
on my Jewish Community Center 
summer camp T-shirt—that way, the 
white supremacists we encountered 
wouldn’t know it was us they should be 
shooting. We never did run into one—
or, if we did, my trick worked, and we 
survived. Around that time, the Ku Klux 
Klan staged a march in my home city, 
Pittsburgh. They were met by protests, 
which my mother and older siblings 
attended. I was not allowed to go. I was 
very disappointed at being denied the 
chance to gawk firsthand at the hooded 
anti-Semites: an exotic, dying species of 
bigot which I had so often heard about 
but never met. 
In Hebrew school, and eventually, 
in public school, I learned about Hitler, 
Kristallnacht, the Nuremburg Laws, and 
Auschwitz. At 12, I watched Schindler’s 
List and visited the Holocaust Museum 
in Washington, D.C. What made these 
history lessons different from others 
was their ominous refrain: It could happen 
again. Anti-Semitism was a disease that 
could appear dormant but break out 
when least expected, and it was our 
duty as Jews to be vigilant. Before the 
Democratic primaries for the 2004 
presidential election, a Sunday school 
teacher told me that he would move to 
Israel were Joe Lieberman ’64 elected 
president. “If the terrorists attack again, 
people will blame the president, and 
then blame the Jews.” 
He left the rest up to my 
imagination, but by that point I was 
already growing skeptical of what in my 
view was a kind of paranoia. For all the 
Holocaust films I watched, I couldn’t 
make the connection between Germany 
in 1938 and the United States in 2004. 
Lieberman didn’t win the primary, so my 
teacher’s theory was never tested, but I 
felt sure anyway that it was unfounded. 
The Klan never came back to town. I 
came to Yale, where, just like everywhere, 
some people have funny opinions about 
Jews, but where, just like anywhere, I 
have yet to meet a real anti-Semite. I 
thought I’d left the fear of my childhood 
behind for maturity and rationality. And 
before the events of this summer, I was 
used to shrugging off criticisms of the 
American university as a stronghold of 
leftist politics. So what if my history 
professor is a self-avowed Marxist? 
Where else was I going to meet one? 
The greatest 
challenge of 
researching 
anti-Semitism 
is not 
labeling and 
cataloguing 
offensive acts 
but asking the 
essential 
question: 
“Why does man 
hate?”


I was nonplussed by accusations 
this summer that a historically anti-
Semitic university was hushing a group 
of academics simply because their ideas 
were unpalatable to the University’s 
liberal supporters. When editorials 
called for “not another Jewish dime 
to Yale,” I couldn’t comprehend the 
uproar. Why was the media so up in 
arms, especially when another program 
to study anti-Semitism was going to take 
YIISA’s place? As I talked to different 
scholars in the field, I began to think 
that these visceral reactions to YIISA’s 
closing reflected the same problematic 
assumptions that lay underneath the old 
institute’s research.

T
he 
foundation 
of 
YIISA’s 
scholarship was the concept of 
“New Antisemitism,” which scholars 
define as the latest incarnation of 
an ancient prejudice which focuses 
primarily on demonization of the State 
of Israel. Alvin Rosenfeld, director of 
the Institute for the Contemporary Study 
of Anti-Semitism at Indiana University, 
Bloomington, traced for me the historical 
evolution of anti-Semitism, from the 
religious anti-Semitism that accused 
Jews of Christ’s death, to the racial anti-
Semitism that laid the groundwork for 
the Holocaust, to the modern political 
anti-Semitism targeting Israel. 
“The fact is that we are living in 
a time when there is much too much 
hostility to Jews and the Jewish state,” 
Rosenfeld told me. “And by the latter I 
don’t mean criticism of Israeli policies 
that someone might object to on 
legitimate grounds, but the need to call 
into question the legitimacy of the state 
and its future. When [Israel’s critics] 
use Nazi language to compare the state 
of Israel to the Third Reich, or South 
African language to compare the State 
of Israel to apartheid South Africa, that 
is something else, and I have no problem 
calling that something else anti-Semitic.” 
Rosenfeld referred me to a working 
definition of anti-Semitism accepted by 
the European Monitoring Centre for 
Racism and Xenophobia. The definition, 
which is used by the Indiana institute 
and appeared in a 2008 Congressional 
report on global anti-Semitism, provides 
examples of anti-Zionist rhetoric which 
is also anti-Semitic: “Denying the Jewish 
people their right to self-determination... 
by claiming that the existence of a 
State of Israel is a racist endeavor” and 
“Applying double standards by requiring 
of [Israel] a behavior not expected or 
demanded of any other democratic 
nation.” 
I can see where Rosenfeld is coming 
from. What is going on in the Palestinian 
Territories, for all of its ugliness, is 
not equivalent to the Nazi Holocaust. 
Making that comparison is alienating 
and unproductive. I feel queasy when 
a friend dismissively asks, “You’re not 
doing that Birthright thing, are you?” I 
imagine that many Jews, both my age and 
older, and of all political persuasions, 
also suspect that anti-Zionism stems 
from a particularly sticky form of anti-
Semitism. But intellectually, I know the 
issue is sometimes more complicated. 
Those entrusted with studying anti-
Semitism should think deeply about 
these complexities. My major issue 
with scholarship on New Antisemitism, 
of which YIISA was a prime example, 
is its insistence that large swathes of 
potentially useful or revealing ideas are 
anti-Semitic and therefore deserve no 
serious discussion in academia.
Take, for example, the South 
Africa-inspired strategy of Boycott, 
Divestment, and Sanctions against Israel 
as a means of ending the occupation 
of the Palestinian Territories. Critically 
analyzing the BDS movement instead of 
dismissing it immediately as anti-Semitic 
would be alarming to many scholars 
who subscribe to the doctrine of New 
Antisemitism, because it compares 
Israel to a historically racist state. In a 
2006 paper for the American Jewish 
Committee, Alvin Rosenfeld wrote 
that “progressive” Jews who promote 
discussion of the BDS movement are 
“profoundly wrong. Such thinking is 
also harmful in its likely effects, for in 
calling into question Israel’s legitimacy 
and moral standing, it abets the views 
of those who demand an end to Jewish 
national existence altogether and lends 
a coveted aura of Jewish support to 
the advancement of this eliminationist 
goal.” 
Rosenfeld avoids exploring the 
premises of the movement he criticizes. 
Similarly, I wouldn’t have dared to 
discuss the reasoning behind Boycott, 
Divestment, and Sanctions in my 
Hebrew school classroom. But Yale 
is not a Hebrew school classroom. 
Dogmatic restrictions on studying anti-
Semitism put seriously considering the 
reasons for anti-Zionism on the same 
moral level as crediting the claims of 
Holocaust deniers. The truth is that the 
failure to distinguish between the two 
also makes me queasy. 
Yaman Salahi, a soft-spoken third-
year law student, contributed an op-ed 
to the News last fall criticizing the old 
YIISA before its closure. Instead of 
attempting to place anti-Semitism in the 
context of other forms of hatred, Salahi 
wrote, speakers at a YIISA conference 
focused conspicuously on Muslim and 
Arab anti-Semitism. Scholarship at 
YIISA, Salahi told me, reflected “a body 
of knowledge out there which is saying: 
‘O.K., who is criticizing Israel right now? 
Let’s find out how to make them anti-
Semitic.” This dogma was what led to 
the closing of YIISA: its research was 
So what if my 
history 
professor is 
a self-avowed 
Marxist? Where 
else was I 
going to meet 
one? 



**Yale’s New Anti-Semitism Project**
**Author: Ben Kline**
**Page number(s): 46-47**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Ben Kline is a sophomore in 
Berkeley College.

sometimes unscholarly, its speakers 
oftentimes uncritically pro-Israel in 
their rhetoric, and the institution itself 
ultimately undesirable at Yale.  
Wondering about the possibility of 
alternatives to New Antisemitism, I got 
in touch with Jonathan Judaken, an anti-
Semitism scholar at Rhodes College in 
Memphis. In an email, Judaken stressed 
that the academy should not shy away 
from politically charged scholarship, 
as long as the research being produced 
is innovative. If controversial and 
opinionated scholars “have insights that 
challenge conventions not already an 
important part of the public debate,” he 
wrote, “then either perspective should be 
voiced in the academy. There is no better 
site in our culture for voicing the most 
difficult or dangerous ideas because the 
academy actually has tools and criteria 
for judging such issues.” Difficult and 
dangerous ideas might include not only 
questioning specific Israeli policies, but 
also the fundamental doctrines that 
tangible solutions. It can be frustrating to 
hear a professor such as Samuels suggest 
that scholarship must take care not to 
cross the line into activism. “Scholars 
can help define anti-Semitism; they 
can map its contours; they can explain 
its manifestations,” Samuels, YPSA’s 
embattled figurehead, told me. “This 
is not to say that scholars cannot have 
opinions, or take sides on issues.  But the 
work of the scholar is different from the 
work of the advocate.” 

Both Rosenfeld and Judaken will 
be coming to Yale this year to speak at 
YPSA events. Rosenfeld’s lecture is titled 
“Sources of the ‘New Antisemitism’” 
and Judaken will talk about “Theorizing 
the Study of Antisemitism.” No theory 
about anti-Semitism or the state of Israel 
will ever be politically neutral, but from 
the list of speakers and their lecture 
topics, I can surmise that the range of 
views expressed at YPSA will be wider 
than that of its predecessor, and I feel 
that YPSA is in good hands. My hope 
that its scholars do take an activist stance, 
though not in support of or opposition 
to any nation-state. Instead, I’d like to 
see YPSA advocate and be a model for 
a more open and heterogenous academy, 
where scholars argue new ideas in front 
of a critical audience instead of preaching 
established theories to a complacent 
choir. As easy at it is to ignore Yale’s 
seemingly esoteric academic turmoil, 
as students we are right in the middle 
of it. It’s hard to say which ideas will 
make their way out of the ivory tower, 
where we are safe to appreciate their 
complexity, but we can’t wait until they 
enter the world of politics and sound 
bites to start paying attention.
underlie them—even if this means 
doing away with the restrictions of the 
New Antisemitism school.
I 
don’t think it’s controversial to say that 
all scholars of anti-Semitism think 
it is a problem that a small American 
child fears for his Jewish life at the end 
of the twentieth century, whether they 
call the problem New Antisemitism 
or something else. But the greatest 
challenge of researching anti-Semitism 
is not labeling and cataloguing offensive 
acts but asking the essential question: 
“Why does man hate?” It is a frustrating 
question, partly because it has no 
definitive or universal answer, and partly 
because it’s hard to see how any answer 
could stop Iranian newspapers from 
publishing hateful cartoons or untangle 
the knot in my stomach I feel when 
my friends criticize Israel. Academic 
research, no matter how contrarian, 
can feel inadequate when there are so 
many problems in the world that require 


<br>

**ENDNOTE**
**Author: Ali Abarca**
**Page number(s): 47**

In the late afternoon on Friday, 
October 7, I relinquished my watch to a 
jeweler on Chapel Street. 

I can’t tell you the precise time this 
occurred.

My watch had been ailing for days, 
maybe the better part of two weeks. 
First, it was five minutes behind. Then 
ten. Then forty. Then it stopped. Then 
it would tick again and I’d wind the dial 
so the second and minute hands rested 
at the correct distance from each other. 
Then it would stop, again, but I’d wear 
it anyway, hoping that it would revive 
during the day when it got some sunlight 
and some fresh air and that I’d look 
down when I needed it and the hands 
would be moving again like they were 
supposed to. 

I’d sit down to dinner in the dining 
hall and find myself telling everyone 
about my watch.  
“So, how’s your week?” asked my 
long-unseen friends. “How have you 
been?”  
My fork would clink against my 
plate. I would dig into roasted cauliflower 
or tofu fried rice or pan-seared salmon 
with mango salsa. 
“Good! Good. I need to get my 
watch fixed, though. Every time I look 
down it’s more behind.” 
“Oh, yeah—hm. That must be so 
annoying!” 

You know the phrase, “You are 
what you eat?” Rewrite. You are what 
you say while you eat. My watch was the 
bland, vicissitudinous spoonful I fed my 
suitemates. 

On Tuesday, October 11, after my 
film lecture, I returned to the jeweler on 
Chapel Street. The lecture ends at 2:20 
p.m. It couldn’t have been long after that.

The woman behind the counter 
asked for the ticket they’d given me on 
my first visit. I couldn’t find it in my 
backpack, and all seemed lost.	
But she said I could give her 
my name, which I eagerly did. She 
disappeared into the back, reemerged 
with a crisp, yellow manila envelope, and 
asked to see my identification. Satisfied, 
she unveiled my watch, the band neatly 
coiled. It was pulsing gorgeously. 

I was reunited with my watch at 
2:32 p.m., according to the receipt.
“Would you like to wear it out?” the 
woman asked. 
“Oh yes, I would,” I said. 	
Is knowing the time all the time so 
important? If it is, why did days grow 
into the better part of two weeks before 
I relinquished a time-teller that couldn’t 
tell me the time? I mean before I got it 
diagnosed. Cured. Fixed? 

My watch’s constant tempo gives 
regular rhythm to inconstant days. Its 
band wraps around my wrist and beats 
with a pulse where I can feel my own. 
It’s the living, moving machine I choose 
to wear with me from day’s start to day’s 
end. 

Maybe it took me so long to part 
with my watch because it’s really a small 
part of me. Maybe I had known all 
along that I would miss it. I had been a 
negligent owner, really. Maybe that’s why 
it was the conversational morsel I gave 
others to digest.

Or maybe I need to stop worrying 
about my watch and find something else 
to talk about.



**TELLING TIME**
**Author: Madeline Duff**


