Publication date: October 13, 2000
Volume: 33
Issue number: 2

**MASTHEAD:**
- **Publisher:** Shruti Ath4r
- **Editor-in-Chief:** Alan Schomfolti
- **Managing Editors:** jessica Bulman, A"J"'!Vzmmaz
- **Designer:** Tati4114 ]it*off
- **Production Manager:** judyMi/kr
- **Business Manager:** Silpa Pmcl,ma
- **Photography Editor:** Whitney Grace
- **Associate Editor:** Ronm Givony
- **Research Director:** Daniel KMrtz-PhtiAn
- **Circulation and Subscriptions Managers:** Malrilto Haru111ri, BWt Wilson
- **Staff:** Sara Hinchbom • Carl Hunguford • Sydney Leavcru • P2triclt Casq< Pins • Eric RodUeckt • Don Toncipbpbol • MmoiJnJ ...J DimtwJ • Pucr 8. Cooper • Michad Gabu • Tom CrisP • Broob Kdky • Jennif<r Pins • Hcnty Sdn .. b • Elizabeth Sledge • Fr.d Sucbac" • Thomas Saoac • AJ.U.n • Ricbard Blow • Jay Carney • Richard Conniff • Ruth Conniff • Elisha Cooper • Lauren Rabin • S~ Weisman • Danid Ycrgin
- **Friends:** StCYC Ballou • Anson M. Bcanl, Jr. • Bla~ Bcnnm • Edward B. Bennett, Jr. • Edward B. Bcnncn Ill • Paul S. Bcnncn • Genld Brud< • Barbara BurreU • Jr Carney • OophN O.u • Jooh Civin • ]oru.than M. Oult • Corucancx Clc:mc:nc • Elisha Cooper • Pttcr 8. Cooper • AMy Coun • J<ny and Roo< Coun • Mui Omison • Albat J. Fo> • Mrs. Howord Fo> • David ~'=man • GeoBt.y Fri..! • Anuro Ganclua • Sherwin Goldmm • l>.rvid Grecnq • Tom Grigl • S<cpbm Hellman • Jan< Kamaul<y • Brooks Kdlcy • R.lp JGr-.d • .\nd.-J. Kuzncoki, jL • u..;. E. l...cbmwl • r- ~..-· E. Nobles ....._ • Hanlt Mambaci • Manba E. Neil • Pucr Neil • Howord H. Ncwmon • San O'Brim • Jwic Pttm • Lnvio mel Joan Plan • Joob Pbuc • Julia PYaoocl • l.awm JUbift • Foirfu c Raadal • RDihA R.iao • Mad: RiDcla • Nidlolao X. RioopoWoo • s-n Roh.., • Mea. and Anhuc • • Didt mel o.Y.it San • Ridwd Shidcls • w. Hu.poe Sides • Lu Siloa.aa • Elizabod, mel \Villiaa ~ • 'Thomas Saotoc • Eliz.bah T- • Ala mel Be..,. Tordlo • Mdiaa Tuma • Alloo and Sarah W..ddl • Daniel Yapo ODd Aapia Some Yap


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

FEATURES 
8 Higher Education - Anya Kamenetz 
12 Where Have You Gone, joseph Lieberman? - Ronen Givony and Daniel Kurtz-Phelan 
18 Deconstructionism - Whitney Grace 
22 Cell Division - Jessica Bulman 
STANDARDS 
4 Points of Departure 
26 Essay: Letter From Prague - Eric German 
28 The Critical Angle: Hitchhiker's Guide to the University - Patrick Cauy Pitts 
30 Endnote: Quorh rhe Ravens, Nevermore - Michael Gerber


**Title: Higher Education**
**Author: Anya Kamenetz**
**Page number(s): 8**

With new federal regulations, your financial aid could go up in smoke.


**Title: Where Have You Gone, joseph Lieberman?**
**Author: Ronen Givony and Daniel Kurtz-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 12**

A portrait of the candidate as a Yale man


**Title: Deconstructionism**
**Author: Whitney Grace**
**Page number(s): 18**

Photos and essay by Whitney Grace


**Title: Cell Division**
**Author: Jessica Bulman**
**Page number(s): 22**

How 500 Connecticut prisoners were sent to Virginia


**Title: Letter From Prague**
**Author: Eric German**
**Page number(s): 26**

Essay: Letter From Prague


**Title: The Critical Angle: Hitchhiker's Guide to the University**
**Author: Patrick Cauy Pitts**
**Page number(s): 28**

reviewing The Green Guide: Yale University anti New H~tven


**Title: Endnote: Quorh rhe Ravens, Nevermore**
**Author: Michael Gerber**
**Page number(s): 30**



**Eyes on the Prize**
**Author: Matthew Underwood**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Eyes on the Prize 
THE PERENNIAL FILING 
frenzy that descends 
on the fellowship 
office 
at 
Undergraduate 
Career Services 
during the first 
weeks 
of 
September 
has 
finally 
calmed. 


Legions of Yalies 
brandishing appli-
cations and wearied 
from weeks of hum-
ble 
self-aggrandize-
ment have given up 
their annual siege of 1 
Hillhouse Ave. The many 
seniors who just couldn't 
get that perfect Rhodes 
recommendation or whose 
Fulbright 
interview 
flopped are now left to 
look for real jobs or to seek 
funds elsewhere. 


Yet the despair of these 
haggard souls is unwarrant-
ed. They need look no further 
than the Yale College Dean's 
Office 
website 
to 
find 
Undergraduate Prius, a cata-
logue of Yale's many endowed 
prizes-some offering hun-
dreds, even thousands, of 
dollars. The Dean's Office, 
the Council of Masters, and 
the residential colleges grant 
prizes for good sportsmanship, 
good grades, and even some for 
good intentions. The John C. 
Shroeder Award is set aside for 
the junior "who, in the opinion 
of the Committee on Award, 
will find his/her 
place and play a 
good part in 
the good labor 
of the world." 


Other prizes, however, ask for 
something 
more. 


Looking closely, the 
Yalie with even the 
most arcane talent, 
the most obscure 
interests, and the 
most eccentric char-
acter traits can find 
the trailhead of his or 
her own road to riches 
in Undergraduate Prius. 


Take, for instance, the F. 
Wilder 
Bellamy, 
Jr., 
Memorial award, "for the 
junior or juniors who best 
exemplify the 'qualities for 
which F. Wilder Bellamy, Jr., 
is remembered."' Just what are. 
these qualities? The Class 
Book of 1937 yields some 
answers. 


Mr. 
Bellamy 
("Babe" to his college chums) 
attended St. Mark's prep 
school and entered Yale as a 
legacy in 1933. He lived in 
Davenport, managed rwo varsi-
ry sports teams, majored in 
American History, and left plan-
ning to become an "investment 
broker." For sure, not just any-
one can live up to such achieve-
ments. One of seven juniors 
who took home $2,000 for the 
Bellamy prize last year, David 
Valdez (oc 'ox) acknowledged 
that he and Mr. Bellamy "share a 
certain mystique." Asked whether 
he plans to become an investment 
broker, Mr. Valdez (who has no 
quirky nickname) replied, "No, no 
brokerage 
business 
for 
me. 
Entertainment. It's only a lit-
tle different." 


Among the 
prizes that take 
more 
fore-
thought 
is 
Library Map Prize, "awarded by the 
Universiry Library to the student who 
makes the best use of maps in his/her 
senior essay or its equivalent." Fred Musto, 
curator of maps at Sterling Memorial 
Library, takes his duties as judge seriously. 
"I don't know what sort of humor you're 
going to find in the Map Prize," he warns 
before I begin my questioning. The Prize, 
he goes on to explain, usually goes to a stu-
dent whose thesis involves historical geog-
raphy or architecture. But it is not awarded 
every year, so spurious prize seekers need 
not apply. "We know that some people just 
look at the prize list to see what they're eli-
gible for," Musto scowls. 


Another man keeping a watchful eye 
on the ·prize he oversees is Beinecke 
Library's Stephen Parks. Mr. Parks's eyes 
shine with nostalgia as he tells me about 
the award's namesake Adrian van Sinderen, 
"one of the grand old book collectors of his 
era." The prize, $500 for sophomores and 
$750 for seniors, was endowed by Mr. van 
Sinderen "to stimulate book collecting 
among undergraduates, to encourage 
book-buying, book-owning, and book-
reading both as a hobby and as a funda-
mental part of the educational process." 


Mr. Parks explains that the committee of 
judges looks not simply for rariry, but 
rather for the "intelligently chosen nucleus" 
of a personal library. Winning collections 
have included editions of the Wizard of Oz 
and books on beekeeping. "Of course, 
there's always somebody who tries to win 
by submitting his course books," Mr. Parks 
commented derisively. 


The residential college prizes honor 
perhaps the most carefree set of achieve-
ments. The Berkeley College Fellows Prize, 
for instance, is set aside for "that member 
who has brought the most light and air to 
the College." Some students feel, however, 
that certain prizes demand the impossible. 


The Lawton Calhoun Cup is awarded 
annually in Pierson College "to that mem-
ber of the college who, in the opinion of 
the Master, has done the most to make 
Pierson a happy place." Says Pierson neigh-
bor Jack Snyder (oc '03), "Bring happiness 
to Pierson? A Sisyphean challenge, indeed." 


Don't feel up to the task? Perhaps, in 
the end, a real job doesn't look so bad. 


-Matthew Underwood


**Alma Matters**
**Author: Anthony Weiss**
**Page number(s): 5**

Alma Matters 
RALPH NADER COMPLAINED that this year's 
election is nothing but a "Harvard-Yale 
game." Sure enough, if all are faithful to 
their alma maters, the four major-party 
presidential and vice-presidential candi-
dates will visit Cambridge this November. 


Of course, Dick Cheney might skip the 
proceedings, as he dropped out of Yale to 
graduate from the University of Wyoming. 
But George W Bush should certainly be 
there, possibly even at his father's side. Al 
Gore and Joe Lieberman will have to part 
ways, as Gore and his three daughters chee.c 
the Cantabs, while Joe, a New Haven resi-
dent and Yale alum, will say a bracha over 
the Bulldogs. Of course, Ralph won't be 
there--he got stuck at Princeton for his 
bright college years. 
0croBER13,2000 


Surprisingly, compared with other 
elections over the past 50-odd years, the Ivy 
heritage of this year's crop is unusual. Some 
recent candidates attended name-brand 
schools, such as Harvard, Yale, and 
Princeton. But many more graduated from 
schools that most don't associate with the 
power elite: the University of Minnesota, 
Eureka College, and Whittier College, for 
example. 


In the past century, Harvard College 
has produced two presidents, but Gore 
should be wary of following in their foot-
steps: John F. Kennedy and Franklin D. 
Roosevelt both died in office. W would 
carry on the family tradition, as his father 
was one of only two candidates in history 
to go from the Old Campus to the White 
House. (The other was William Howard 
Taft, better known for his corpulence than 
his achievement in office). Princeton's sole 
candidate, Adlai Stevenson, lost twice. 


Military academies have produced two 
winners (Dwight Eisenhower, a West Point 
man, and Jimmy Carter, an Annapolis 
graduate), 
while 
the 
University of 
Michigan (Gerald Ford and Thomas 
Dewey) and the University of Minnesota 
(Hubert Humphrey and Walter Mondale) 
produced two election losers apiece. 


Among candidates from lesser-known 
schools, Lyndon Johnson brought home 
the bacon for Southwest Texas Teachers 
College, while Ronald Reagan did Eureka 
College proud for two straight terms. 


Richard Nixon wanted to go to Yale, but 
couldn't afford the travel expenses and 
instead went to Whittier College. He won 
two elections anyway. Perhaps the most 
impressive is Harry Truman, who never 
graduated from Spalding Business College, 
but nevertheless enrolled in the University 
of Kansas Law School at the age of 38. 


So while this year may be a "Harvard-
Yale game," it's the first one in recent mem-
ory. The two schools do produce many of 
the nation's leaders in business, as well as 
most levels of politics, but the presidency is 
a different animal. Few presidents have 
actively marketed themselves as intellectu-
als. The man-of-the-people image is a far 
more popular role, perhaps most masterful-
ly played by Ronald Reagan. The last major 
candidate to present himself as a true 
thinker was Stevenson, who was crushed in 
consecutive elections by the simpler, more 
grandfatherly Eisenhower. (It also didn't 
hurt that Ike won the war.) 


However, Nader's phrase implicates 
something more than mere education: elit-
ism. Coming from a Princeton graduate, 
this may be slightly hypocritical, but the 
issue is worth examining nonetheless. 


Elitism, too, however, cuts against the 
uend of recent history . .PDR was the last of 
the patrician politicians, and he was fol-
lowed by Harry Truman, a gritty populist. 
JFK could be considered as an exception, 
but the Kennedys are a breed apart, eluding 
normal categories. True, George Bush 
exuded a whiff of elitism, but he rode on 
the coattails of the very folksy Reagan, and 
was soon defeated by the down-home Bill 
Clinton. No other presidenr in the past 50 
years has represented any class higher than 
the comfortable middle class. Some, like 
Nixon, were downright poor. 


The take-home message for Yalies who 
aspire to the highest office in the land? 
Transfer ro Bemidji State and learn to play 
the sax. 


-Anthony wt-iss


**The Tao of Stephen**
**Author: No Author Listed**

The Tao of Stephen 
THE BOTILES WERE UNMARKED, which was 
suange. They sat on a card table at one cor-
ner of the New Haven Green. Some cost 
two dollars, some five, and others ten, and 
all were full of liquids of varying color. The 
table was cluttered, gray, and worn. 


Surrounding it were people, bus stops, traf. 
fic, and noise. I gawked at the scene, 
dumbfounded in the middle of the city. 


The vendor at the table noticed me, 
sensed my puzzlement as I stood there. 
Like a good salesman, he approached, all 
energy. He called himself Stephen. He was 
jazz cool, almost mellow, with a smoky 
radiance and dread-locked hair. He grinned 
his introduction, and asked me if I had any 
questions. I bad one: "What are these?" 


Stephen told me that his bottles were 
full of "domestic oil," trying to rouse my 
patriotic spirit. My heart saluted, but my 
gaze froze stoic. I didn't want him to smell 
my weakness--1 buy American. He spoke 
of the tradition surrounding oil, of its age: 
"Oil is as old as man." He paused for effect,


**The Oil Man Cometh**
**Author: Clint Carroll**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
then went on: "Naw, it's even older. Oil is 
as old as the dinosaurs." His statement was 
bold, but I wasn't impressed. I soon would 
be, though. Stephen was just getting 
warmed up. 


His sales pitch was forceful, a winged 
barrage of fact and apparent fiction. By the 
end of it, I would be exhausted. He began 
with a geography lesson, explaining that 
"most oil comes from Europe---countries 
like France, Africa and Saudi Arabia." He 
followed with a passionate one-liner: "My 
products are from right here." He had sup-
pliers in New York who got him the "stuff" 
he needed to make his oils. This frightened 
me. I really didn't want to douse my naked 
body in anything from the big city. So 
I asked a simple question: "What's 
in your oils?" 
He told me that his oils 
come from both plants and 
animals. When I pressed 
him to clarify, he obliged: 
"See, some of my oils come 
from rotting wood extracts. 
Some come from animals 
like ... like ... whales." 
When 
he 
finished 
frowned and reluctantly cor-
rected himself: "Well, not 
whales. Their oil is used for 
burning. I guess I can't really think of any 
animals I use." 
I tried to ease his obvious discomfort 
with another question: "How do you get 
your oils?" I knew that Stephen had "sup-
pliers" in the city, but then again so do hos-
pitals and addicts. I wanted more informa-
tion. But Stephen had clearly pegged me as 
a dangerous outsider. He responded cryp-
tically: "My suppliers usually just UPS the 
stuff to me." Silence followed. 


Our conversation resumed after an 
uncomfortable minute of quiet. It was time 
to do business, and Stephen was ready for 
battle. I began by asking him what his most 
popular oil was. He hurled a quick 
response, no hesitation: "My best scent ever 
was 'Back That Ass Up'-you know, like 
that popular song. Yeah, that one sold like 
hotcakes." 


With this remark Stephen launched 
into a rapid-fire explanation of his market-
ing strategy. His insides were exposed for 
the first time. "I don't have a logo or any-
thing. But what I do is mix the oils and 
then give them unique names." He stopped 
abruptly. My jaw dropped open. What was 
this? He had spoken freely and obviously 
thought he had gone too far. I was too curi-
ous; I was the competition, a potential oil 
kingpin who would seize the market with 
all my Iowa cunning. We had been making 
progress, and now it had all just fallen 
apart. It was my cue to leave. I tried to 
seem inclifferent as I departed, allowing just 
a hint of interest to taint my goodbye. I 
waved and walked. Stephen just 
stood there. 


I wasn't going to go 
back, but I 
had 
to. 
Stephen and I were con-
nected. We were star-
crossed lovers without 
the love, man and mer-
chant. I missed him; he 
missed me. I was corn. I 
returned to the street cor-
ner three days later, 
clutching a fistful of dol-
lar bills. Stephen was 
waiting. I wasted no time: "I want 
some oil. Something raw, something 
classy." He sized me up as if to decide what 
oil would best complement my Iowa scent. 
He declared that I needed something 
"earthy" and handed me several bottles, 
among them a container of "Amber" and a 
vial of "Big Pappa." I chose "Ferdous." 
Stephen told me that the word meant 
"highest heaven" or "paradise" in Arabic. It 
smelled like fruit and after-shave; its poten-
tial was jnfinjce. 


We made the exchange, money for oil, 
and I walked away, hopeful. In my hand I 
clutched paradise in a vial. T he buy was a 
religious experience. Stephen was a little 
richer and I reeked of potential-oily, 
odorous, filmy potential-that sloshed in a 
two-dollar bottle. 
-Clint Carroll 

**Higher Education and the Drug War**
**Author: Anya Kamenetz**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

....... Oucation 
a warm Tuesday night in September, I am 
in the living room of an off-campus apart-
when two other Yale students walk in. One 
financial aid; the other does not receive aid. 
have come here, to a friendly apartment, to 
a bowl of marijuana and a two-liter bottle of 
NCWJ\alln Dew. As they pass the pipe and the soda 
the living room table, I ask them if they've 
of the July 1998 amendment to the Higher 
llatt"aon Act (HF.A) that suspends the financial 
of any student convicted of a drug offense. 
hadn't, but they don't seem too worried. 


If the police were to pass by our well-lit, first-
window and look inside, both my friends 
be vulnerable to drug possession charges. 
my wealthier friend, these first-time charges 
probably lead at most to a fine and com-
service. But as a result of the HE.A amend-
other friend would stand to lose her 
~iving an education because of one 
for drug possession. Few students 
Yale know much about this Law, and 
of those who do don't see a rea-
to it. But a small group is 
that. 


1965 HF.A established categories 
aid like Stafford Loans and Pell 
"open the doors of college tO 
,. Every few years, Congress 
the Act, fixing interest rates 
adding new programs and ini-
the latest trends in educa-
1998, the amendments to the 
a provision introduced by 
Mark Souder (R-Ind.) Any 
of a drug-related offense 
would lose aU his or her federal financial aid for at least one year, 
perhaps permanently, depending on the severity of the crime, the 
number of offenses, and whether the student passed subsequent 
drug tests. This provision is retroactive, though juvenile offenses 
stricken from one's record do not count. Beginning in July 2000, 
the FAPSA form, which is used to determine students' eligibility for 
federal financial aid, included multiple-choice question 28, asking 
about an applicant's drug convictions. 


The American Civil Liberties Union soon launched a protest 
against the amendment. "Stop the Use of Student Aid as a Tool of 
Discrimination!" read the banner at the head of its November 4• 
1999, Action Akrt. This form letter, to be sent to a senator or repre-
sentative, points out the possible discriminatory effects of the pro-
vision, which mandates special penalties for the economically dis-
advantaged that do not apply to wealthier people convicted of 
identical crimes. The provision has racial implications as well: 
Eleven percent of u.s. drug users are African-American, yet they 
make up 37 percent of those arrested and 6o percent of those in 
state prisons for drug offenses, meaning the law would almost cer-
tainly affect students of color disproportionately. And the stipula-
tion that convicted students may complete a drug treatment pro-
gram to clear their records, the letter says, is a fig leaf which ignores 
the woeful shortage of slots in such programs. The letter urges one's 
elected official to support Senator Barney Frank's (o-Mass.) H.R. 
1053. which would repeal the amendment. 


With a year tO go before the law would take effect, the usual 
cadre of studenc activists coalesced around the cause last full. The 
nationwide Students for a Sensible Drug Policy, at their founding 
conference last October, "decided that this issue was really some-
thing winnable," says Alexandra Cox, a leader of Yale's Student 
Legal Action Movement (sLAM). At the conference, the group chose 
to push for a series of student council resolutions in protest of the 
provision. The resolution, co-authored by Cox and passed by the 
Yale College Council (ycc) in February 2000, is typical of those 
passed aU over the country at schools big and small, public and pri-
vate. It calls on Yale to "actively encourage" the passage of H.R. 1053 


With new federal regulations, 
your financial aid could go 
up in smoke. 

and to supplement any student's losses in financial aid. Hampshire 
College, in Amherst, MA, has actually established a fund for this 
purpose. With the only Ivy student council to sign on, Yale is fea-
tured prominently in a list of colleges and universities whose stu-
dents support H.R. 1053 on several drug-reform policy websites, such 
as raisryourvoice.com and drcnet.org, the Drug Reform Coalition's 
website. 


The Yale administration has yet to respond officially to the 
vee's call, but not because of a hardline position in the financial aid 
office against drug use or the possibility of compensating students 
for denied federal funding. "Personally, 
and I'm just expressing my own opin-
ion here, I am not at all opposed to 
adopting such a procedure [compensat-
ing students]," said Caesar Storlazzi, 
Associate 
Director of University 
Financial Aid. Storlazzi points out a 
historical precedent for the University's 
mitigating the effects of a law restrict-
ing federal aid. During the Vietnam 
War, the Federal Government denied 
aid to anyone who failed to register for 
the draft; in response, the University 
compensated conscientious objectors 
for lost funds.' "So it wouldn't be the 
first time we might make this kind of 
decision on principle," Storlazzi said. 


However, in this case, the princi-
ples involved are somewhat less clear 
than those surrounding the Vietnam 
War. After a long debate, for example, 
the Dwight Hall Cabinet decided to 
suppon only the first part of the YCC 
amendment, stopping short of recom-
mending that Yale give drug offenders 
extra money. Now SLAM is working not 

By Anya Kamenetz 

to build consensus, but simply to raise awareness of the issue. 
"We're modeling ourselves after Students Against Sweatshops (sAS), 
which succeeded in bringing vast attention to something at school," 
Cox says. However, their campus organizing efforts have drawn 
only a handful of students thus far. While SAS has clearly defined 
targets, SLAM's goals are "more symbolic," says Cox, and its adver-
saries are more distant than the Yale administration or even 
Connecticut senators and representatives. In the absence of oppo-
sition on campus, they are focusing on education as a part of a 
national effort to put pressure on key legislators in other states who 
will vote on the pertinent legislation. 


Cox's choice of the word "symbol-
ic" points to larger reasons that this 
"really winnable" issue has failed to 
catch fire on campus. There is a not-so-
hidden sense among people who are 
excited about the HEA, on both sides, 
that it is really a gateway issue to a larg-
er, and much more volatile, debate 
about the War on Drugs. Drug-related 
offenses now constitute the only catego-
ty of crime for which students may be 
denied federal financial aid-not 
assault, not rape, not alcohol-related 
violations. So Students for a Sensible 
Drug Policy and the Drug Reform 
Coalition are leading the protests, while 
activists with more mainstream agendas 
are shying away. "I think on campus 
even some activists are reluctant to take 
this on because they don't think it's real-
ly legit," Cox says. Jelani Lawson, 
Director of A Better Way Foundation, 
which "educates and advocates on 
behalf of public-health-oriented solu-
tions to the War on Drugs," puts the 

9 



**Title: WELCOME TO NEW HAVEN!**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
IO 
WELCOME TO 
NEW HAVEN! 
HERE'S YOUR 
FIRST POP QUIZ. 
True or false: 
a) A Tercentennial celebration occurs more often than a 
Millenia! celebration 
b) Yale University is older than the United States. 
c) Barnes and Noble at Yale is your Yale Tercentennial 
book and gift headquarters. 
d) Yale students. faculty, and staff receive a 2()tl, dis-
count at the Yale Bookstore witb their JD. 
It all comes together 
at Connecticut's largest bookstore 
77 Broadway at York Square 
New Haven 
203-777-8440 
www.yalebookstore.com 
Order merchandise at theyalebookstore@snet.net 
Call toll free 1-888-730-YALE 
for upcoming events or a free catalog. 
HOURS: Mon-Thur: 9-9 
Fri-Sat: 9-10, Sun: Noon-6


**Title:  The Yale War on Drugs**
**Author: Anya Kammaz**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

problem bluntly. "People are reluctant co 
talk about it because there's this hysteria 
surrounding drugs. There's this sense that 
while I might be able to get away with per-
sonal use, any public advocacy will put my 
personal use in jeopardy. People are afraid 
of being targeted and labeled as users." 

The same stigma surrounding drug 
use that allowed the amendment to be 
passed in the first place may prevent those 
most directly affected from coming for-
ward to protest. This provision is a new 
threat to the educations of the 39 percent of 
Yale students )'V)to are on financial aid, yet 
"We've been kind of hesitant to single out 
students who are on financial aid as spokes-
people," says Cox, "and even people who 
we've found don't want to come forward." 

On a national scale, the movement appears 
to have the same problem. The website for 
the Coalition for HEA Reform, a nation-
wide group devoted to the cause, makes an 
appeal for stories from people who have 
lost their aid under this provision: "We 
urgently need to hear from students who 
have been affected by this law, especially 
students who are willing to go public." 

However, only one such story, reported by 
Mother jon~ about a student at Antioch 
College, is linked to the site. 

So far, there are no HEA poster children 
at Yale. "This is the first aid year where the 
Feds actually asked question 28," says 
Storlazzi. "At Yale, we haven't had anyone 
say yes, so there's no University policy yet. 
There is a sense that it's not likely to come 
up." But it strains credulity to think this is 
because Yale students are not using drugs. 
Surveys show that about half of u.s. high 
school students try an illegal drug before 
graduation, and any Thursday night Bong 
& Keg attendee will tell you that this per-
centage probably increases during the Yale 
freshman year. It's also not because the 
New Haven Police aren't making drug 
arrests. In 1995, the most recent year for 
which statistics were available, there were 
2.,682 drug-related arrests in New Haven; 
612. of them were for simple marijuana pos-
session. 

So why the widespread complacency 
in the face of this imminent threat to hun-
dreds of srudents' means to getting an edu-
cation? To put it simply, Yale students aren't 


**Title: The Yale War on Drugs (continued)**
**Page number(s): 11**

often arrested for drug use, or anything 
else. In 
1998, the most recent year for 
which statistics are available, the Yale Police 
made three drug arrests on or near the 
campus, none of which involved students . ., 
This holds true even when students fit ': 
police stereotypes. "As a black man in New 
H aven, I feel cops treat me as a suspect," 
Lawson told me, recounting three separate 
experiences during his time at Yale in 
which he excited sudden, unfounded suspi-
cion from the NHPD. He adds, "My Yale 10 
basically served as a get-out-of-jail-free 
card." Each time, proving his student status 
resulted in a hasty apology from the cops. 

A renewed willingness on the part of 
police to arrest Yale students was demon-
strated in the last week of September, when 
a fraternity party on High Street led to 
seven alcohol-related arrests by New Haven 
officers in a campaign against street noise. 
Yet as long as drug use at Yale remains a rel-
atively private, quiet activity in living 
rooms and common rooms, the current 
stalemate in the campus War on Drugs is 
likely to continue, despite the new legisla-
tion's stated intention. Besides, Scorlazzi 
points out that simply asking students 
whether they have been convicted of a drug 
offense is the least efficient and accurate 
way to find out. "What I fmd interesting," 
he says, "is that the Federal Government is 
depending here on the honesty of appli-
cants. Usually they're so careful about link-
ing other databases, and it would certainly 
be easy for them to discover who was a con-
victed drug offender." At least for now, the 
HE.A amendment is more a symbolic state-
ment than a serious deterrent to a behavior 
that almost no one publicly defends, but 
everyone silently acknowledges. 
IIIJ 
Anya Kammaz, a junior in Davmport 
Co/leg~. is a managing ~ditor for TN]. 
0croB£R IJ, 2000 


**Title: Why I Go to Mississippi & A Response**
**Author: Ronen Givony & Daniel Kurtz-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 12**

I 
By Ronen Givony & Daniel Kurtz-Phelan 
0 n Monday, Ocrobe• 28, •963, Yak Daily N=• Choi<man Joe Uebennan wen< on <he 
record in support of the drive to register black voters in Mississippi. Along with 100 other 
volunteers from Yale and Stanford, lieberman was heading south to help voter registration 
efforts and the gubernatorial campaign of black candidate Aaron Henry. He had the sym~ 
bolic import of his mission in mind. The Chairman was going to show black Mississippians, 
as he wrote, "that there are white men who care about their plight ... whose insides burn 
with anxiety and guilt when they consider the way in which other white men have sought 
to rob the black man of his humanity." Writing in the first person singular, Lieberman 
detailed and defended the reasons for his upcoming departure to the poorest state in the 
nation. He explained his system ofbeliefs, how life is a call for "love among men," and why 
the present situation demanded the commitment of all men sworn to ending injustice. His 
style was neither overwrought nor overly self-conscious. It bespoke the conviction and self-
assurance of a much older man: "I am going to Mississippi because there is much work to 
12 
be done there and few men are doing it. I 
look to the facts of the history of this state's 
treatment of its Negro citizens and I see 
very little but hatred and painful dehu-
manization. . . . It alJ becomes a personal 
matter to me. I am challenged personally." 

To be sure, "Why I Go to Mississippi" 
is not entirely free from moralizing or self-
righteousness. At one point, lieberman 
paraphrases Ecclesiastes and quotes the 
Talmudic fathers en route to proclaiming, 
"This country is one or it is nothing." But 
in all, the "Senator" (as he was already 
being called) showed some real statesman-
ship. In the space of 1300 words, Joe 
Lieberman searched himself and his own 
motives, the criticisms of his opponents, 
and the call to action to which his heart 
had led him. 

But impressive as it was, the thunder 
of the Senator's column was stolen by a 
short, unassuming piece in the adjacent 
column. 

In 
"Communications," 
the 
Editorial Page's daily space for letters, 
lieberman printed a brief poem by "D. 
Milch, 1966." It was untided and addressed 
simply to the Chairman of the News. It 
began: 
So you're gonna belp the poor nigger-
Well, here's news, white boy, 
This nigger don't want your white 
man's help. 

And Milch was just getting started. 

Amazingly, the first three lines are almost 
polite compared to the 20 that follow. In 
the course of three increasingly angry stan-
zas, the sophomore goes on to call 
Lieberman "white boy" five times; to claim 
"You ain't gonna get a cause out of my 
skin"; to explain "You still got to count to 
ten miUion by ones"; and to demand, 
"Look me in the eye an' call me brother," 
all before ending with a disarming plea: 
just teU me we aU got to die together, 
So that there':: just two guys cryin'. 
That's all I want, white boy: 
A chance to cry with you, together. 

"Why I Go to Mississippi" might well 
be the first of Joe Lieberman's many spodit, 
news-grabbing declamations over the 
years-and not only because of its tone of 
impassioned moralism or irs spirited call to 
public service. Even more telling is his deci~ 
sion, as Chairman of the News, to share the 



**Title: Joseph I. Lieberman**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
page with an angry detractor. The words 
were written in 1963, almost a decade 
before Lieberman ever rook political office, 
but the piece and its rebuttal showcase the 
complexity of a candidate whose life so far 
has been largely cast in terms of simple 
right and wrong. 

MoST NEWS ACCOUNTS get it wrong: ~ 
Joseph Isador Lieberman is above all a man 
of many paradoxes. 

His speeches are long-winded and 
heavy with faces and figures. Confront him 
with an issue, however, and he will 
respond with poise and passion. His pres-
ence on camera is unimpressive, his per-
sonality mild; but when he speaks, people 
stop and pay attention. His voting record 
shows his willingness to spend millions on 
programs that help the poor, and billions 
on programs that help the powerful. He 
cites tikkun olam, the Jewish dictum mean-
ing "heal the world," as one of his most 
deeply-held beliefs, yet he has also voted 
for every u.s. military action from Panama 
and Grenada to the Persian Gulf (the last 
on a Saturday-the Sabbath-no less). He 
is known as "the conscience of the Senate" 
as well as something of a moralizer. He is a 
reserved, quiet person-a hard-working 
family man who still calls his mother at 
least once a day-but, at the same time, a 
tough and often ruthless politician who. 
knocks off seemingly unbeatable oppo-
nents before heading on to larger glories. 

The roots of the complexity that 
defines Lieberman took hold long before 
Yale. Lieberman spent the first 18 years of 
his life in a working-class neighborhood in 
Stamford, cr, living in a house bordered 
by a junkyard on one side and a tenement 
on the other. Much has been made of his 
modest roots and Orthodox Jewish 
upbringing. Lieberman himself praises his 
family and hometown for their role in his 
early political development-that is, his 
development into an American who cared 
"about the future of our democracy," as he 
writes in his recent memoir, In Praise of 
Public Lifo. Henry Lieberman was a liquor-
store owner who also held a part time job 
in a bakery, working 14-hour days to sup-
pon his wife Marcia and their three chil-
dren. The Liebermans kept an Orthodox 
borne, and their only son's young life was 
steeped in religiosity, a f.lct that has pro-
vided fodder for both his own political


--- Page 14 ---

rhetoric and extensive media coverage. Lieberman writes that his 
political interests come from that "same surprising portal of faith 
because it has much to do with the way I navigate through each day, 
personally and professionally." Long before he even applied to col-
lege, Joe Lieberman showed a penchant for the inner worlcings of 
politics. He staged his first political campaign while a freshman at 
Stamford High School, using 1950s rock songs in his speech and 
winning the race for class president by a landslide. He went on to 
hold the position for three of his four high school years, and was 
crowned prom king, a victory that he was unable to celebrate 
because the crowning was on a Saturday. In his valedictory speech, 
he spoke on civil rights and called on his classmates to join him in 
the fight against racism. 

Like so many events in his political career, Lieberman's arrival 
at Yale in 1960 was exquisitely timed. In the first half of the 1960s, 
Yale was changing from the fmishing school of the aristocracy that 
former chaplain William Sloane Coffin describes as "the bland lead-
ing the bland" to a hotbed of liberal activism and dissent. (By 1967, 
Yale had the largest number of students who had turned their drafr 
cards over to the Justice Department ro protest the Vietnam War.) 
In 196o, when Joe Lieberman's freshman class entered Yale, it drew 
over 6o percent of its students from East Coast prep schools. At the 
start of his senior year, for the first time in Yale's history, more than 
half of incoming freshmen came from public schools, and minority 
representation was slowly growing. Along with this shifr in demo-
graphics, the University's leaderslllp was changing. After A. 
Whitney Griswold died in 1962, Kingman Brewster rook over as 
President and began an ambitious effort to break down the blue-
blood esublishment and recast Yale as a meritocracy. Reverend 
Coffin was one of the nation's most vocal and visible civil rights 
activists and later spearheaded the anti-war movement. T he first 
traces of social upheaval and liberal activism were appearing in 
every f:acet of University life. "Everyone felt things changing," 
recalls Jethro Lieberman, a friend (but no relation) of the Senator's 
who worked with him on the N~s and was tapped into the same 
secret society, Elihu. "We were really the Kennedy generation-the 
sense that we had to move forward was in the air." And the young 
Joe Lieberman was very much at the vanguard of this charge. 

In the days before student government and the bevy of under-
graduate publications that now overwhelm the campus, the News 
was the undeniable center of political power at Yale. (Among 
Lieberman's associates on the N~s were former presidential adviser 
and U.S. N~s & World Report editor David Gergen, famed activist 
lawyer Stephen Bingham, and Bob Kaiser and Paul Steiger, manag-
ing editors of The Washington Post and The Wall Strut journal, 
respectively.) Despite his interest and political ambition, Lieberman 
did not join the N~s staff until his sophomore year. Once he had, 
though, his rise to the top position was meteoric. In November of 
1962, during the fall of his junior year, Lieberman was elected 
Chairman, the equivalent of today's Editor-in-Chief, a position 
normally reserved for those who had worked on the paper since the 
first days of freshman year. "He joined the News late, which is inter-
esting, but we never doubted he would be Chairman," explains 
Jethro, Managing Editor under the more prominent Lieberman. 
"He was an extremely adept politician in the best sense of the 
word-a person capable of putting together coalitions of which he 
was the leader." 

Once Chairman, Lieberman moved seamlessly between the 
roles of politician and moral crusader. Under him, the N~s reflect-
ed the growing liberalism and social consciousness of a campus stiU 
dominated by prep schoolers. According to Coffin, "[The News] 
was picking up an ethical theme and the main issue was civil 
rights." The Chairman's most visible role was writing editorials. 
Lieberman's prominent position and gregarious personality brought 
him imo the public light and made his one of the most powerful 
voices on campus. His frequent editorials dripped with liberal ide-
alism and moral certainty. "Being Chairman was important, and we 
thought it was a time when you could make a difference," recounts 
Harvey Berenson, Business Manager of the News during 
Lieberman's tenure. "With Kennedy, people believed you could do 
good works and save the world. It wasn't as cynical as it is now." 

Indeed, the young President's hope and charisma-not to 
mention that he was the first non-Protestant President-had no 
small effect on Joe Lieberman. Inspired by the infectious sense of 
change in the air, Lieberman went to Washington briefly during the 
Kennedy administration, spending the summer after his junior year 
as an intern in the office of liberal Connecticut Senator Abraham 
Ribicoff (the first Jew elected to the Senate). His editorial the week 
after Kennedy's assassination, entitled "A Void," was the earnest and 
heart-broken lament of a young idealist: "He renewed our faith; he 
extended our vision of what was possible .... He embodied our 
dreams and now-with no forewarning-he is gone." Lieberman 
did not only write about civil rights issues. He was the first Yale stu-
dent to write in f:avor of co-education, defended Alabama Governor 


--- Page 15 ---

George Wallace's right to speak on campus (which was nonetheless 
denied), and ran editorials criticizing secret societies and the Old 
Yale elitism that they represented. (Though Lieberman would later 
join a society, Elihu, there are rumors that he turned down mem-
bership in the most exclusive of them -:all: Skull and Bones.) 

Throughout, Lieberman managed to avoid coming across as an 
overly pedantic scold. In fact, his final editorial did not wax elo-
quent on injustice or invoke Talmud. In it, he questioned whether 
he and his associates hadn't taken themselves too seriously. One 
appeared in the editorial section shortly after the volunteers 
returned to New Haven. The Nnus' coverage reflected the deeply 
moralistic idealism of the day and was also rather self-congratulato-
ry. Bingham wrote that "Yale University has a truly extraordinary 
record of giving of itself," while an editorial note called the response 
of Yalies "a most significant indication of the awakening of Yale," 
and wished the volunteers "Godspeed in their journey and service." 

UPON RETURNING TO YALE IN NOVEMBER OF 1963, Lieberman
classmate, 
Angus 
Macbeth, 
calls 
Lieberman "sardonically humorous," 
pointing to his membership in the 
Pundits, a notoriously irreverent senior 
prankster society. And though he planted 
himself firmly within the mainstream, 
avoiding the showy label of "radical," his 
pieces were often gutsy. In October of 
1963, he wrote and published on the front 
page "An Open Letter to Yale Alumni," 
criticizing them for their complacency on 
civil rights and calling on them "to use 
"The one thing 
began a political education of a very dif-
1 regret ferent sort. He had been named a Scholar 
today is that Joe is not a 
conservative Jew and an 
orthodox Democrat-they 
are a dying breed," said 
William Sloane Coffin. 
of the House, a now-retired honor that 
relieved him of all obligation to attend 
classes for the entirety of senior year and 
required only a thesis before graduation. 
So Lieberman went to school elsewhere, 
at a New Haven institution renowned in 
its day almost as much as Old Blue-the 
office of Connecticut Democratic Party 
C hairman John Bailey. 

their influence in the power structure, the business complex-to 
bring about constructive and responsible change." 

That same month, Allard Lowenstein visited Yale on behalf of 
the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) to recruit 
volunteers for the Freedom Vote Project. The basic idea was to have 
fieldworkers direct a mock gubernatorial election among 
Mississippi's black population. Blacks would be asked to vote-not 
in the regular election, to which their access was restricted by Jim 
Crow, but in a parallel "Freedom Vote" d~igned to minimize the 
potential for violence, and thereby ensure maximum voter turnout. 
Joe Lieberman was an obvious choice for the trip. Coffin remem-
bers, "He had fine ethical instincts and he was concerned about civil 
rights .... I urged him to go and wanted very much for him to go." 

Thirty Yalies, Lieberman among them, responded to Lowenstein's 
call and began heading south at the end of October, staying through 
the November 4 conclusion of the campaign, at which point some 
8o,ooo votes had been cast. The presence of white college students 
sometimes served to draw attention away from the conditions that 
bad brought them there in the first place. Th~ Nnu Yclrk Timn sene 
rqx>rters to cover the campaign, but headlined the stories with 
news that Yale students were working "for a Negro gubernatorial 
candidate in Mississippi." During the Freedom Rally in Jackson, 
which concluded the campaign, 1V men from NBC spent most of 
their time shooting film ofYalies and hardly seemed aware oflocals 
and full-time SNCC workers. SNCC was, for the most part, fine with 
this: As one staffer put it, "It was clear that the press would respond 
to the beating of a Yale student as it simply would not do to the 
~ring of a local Negro." 

So was it all do-goodism? While Lieberman was off in 
Mississippi, reports from the from-line dominated the front page of 
his newspaper. Besides "Why I go to Mississippi, .. a description of 
lbe campaign by Stephen Bingham entitled "Mississippi and You,.

John Bailey was to politics what 
Vince Lombardi was to football: For him, the point of the game was 
to win, sometimes at any cost. Bailey was an old-school "boss" in 
every sense of the word. In In Prais~ of Public Lifo, Lieberman wrote 
that Bailey's machinations reminded him of Willie Stark, the auto-
cratic governor from Robert Penn Warren's Ali th~ King's Mm: "I 
can make the mare go," Stark tells a reporter in the novel. Bailey 
brought to power a considerable number of figures both in 
Connecticut and on the national level-including his friend John F. 
Kennedy, whom be successfully maneuvered into the Democratic 
nomination in 196o--and was instrumental in keeping Democrats 
in control of state government for most of the 1950s, 1960s, and 
1970s. Bailey twisted arms and cursed and threatened and played 
dirty when dirty was needed. T heodore White, in his 1960 book 
Th~ Making of th~ Pr~sidmt, wrote that "Bailey had in his fourteen 
years in office in Connecticut built the tightest New England polit-
ical machine which he operated with merciless efficiency." Bailey's 
tactics would make a surprisingly deep impression on Lieberman, 
the professed champion of good works and tikkun olam. The mas-
ter of back-room, hard-knuckled policies, as Lieberman once wrote, 
"was not totally evil, but then again he was not a philosopher king 
either." Lieberman's apprenticeship with Bailey was more than a bit 
at odds with the spirit of Mississippi, but invaluable nevertheless. 
Bailey was Later labeled "the young Joe Lieberman's political rabbi." 
After Lieberman chose to make Bailey the subject of his senior 
thesis, he submerged himself in histories of Connecticut politics 
and shadowed the man himself day and night. "It was a fascina-
tion," recalls Jethro Lieberman. He conducted countless interviews, 
tagged along to legislative meetings, even sat in on important bro-
kering sessions between Local ward bosses and constituents. In 
doing so, of course, he had more than mere commencement prizes 
in mind; "I could see that there was no better way to learn about 
the history and intricacies of Connecticut's government than to 

JOSEPH I. LIEBERMAN. Born February 24, 1942, in Stamford, Con-
necticut, son of Henry and Marcia Manger Lieberman. Prepared at Stam-
ford High School, Stamford, Connecticut. Scholar of the House special 
major; Ranking Scholar, 1960-62. Member, Morse; Elihu; Aurelian Honor 
Society; Yltle Daily News, 1961-64, chairman, 1963-64; Dwight Hall 
Freshman and Sophomore Cabinet, 1960-61, chairman; Senior Advisory 
Board, 1963-64; Senior Class Council, 1963-64, treasurer; Pundits; Yale 
N.A.A.C.P., 1960-62; Young Democrats, 1962-64. Roommates: T. R. 
Vischi, J. D. Wyles. Future profession: law. Address: 55 Strawberry Hill 
Court, Stamford, Conn. 

15 
THE NEW joURNAl. 



**Title: The Two Sides of Joe Lieberman**
**Author: Ronm Givony and Dania Kurtz-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"study John Bailey," he wrote in In Praise of 
Public Lifo. "The hours I spent interview-
ing him were priceless, my own private 
course in political science." Lieberman 
repaid his debt handsomely, portraying 
Bailey in his thesis as a brilliant, cunning, 
and magnanimous leader who understood 
both that the political game was changing 
and how to win it. The admiring thesis--
part biography, part machine political phi-
losophy-was published as The Power 
Broker by Houghton Mifflin in 1966, while 
Lieberman was still in law school. (It 
remains the authoritative biography on 
Bailey to this day.) After graduation, 
Lieberman sp~nt the summer of 1964 
working for Bailey in Washington during 
his tenure as chairman of the National 
Democratic Parry. 

But in pledging himself to Bailey, 
Lieberman may have taken the first steps 
on a path that, as many of his critics claim 
today, seems to run counter to the course 
he had set for himself-both in his work 
with Senator Abraham Ribicoff the sum-
mer before his senior year and with the 
News as an idealistic crusader. To his early 
faith in the good, Lieberman added a new 
faith in the joys of victory. As Boss Bailey 
himself was fond of saying, "You've gotta 
do what you've gorta do." 

Lieberman learned all this and never 
forgot it. If he sensed a contradiction in 
exhorting his classmates to heal the world 
while admiring and evenrually incorporat-
ing the ethic of}ohn Bailey, he seems not to 
have agonized over it too much. It was only 
by sheer chance that the Connecticut polit-
ical machine came into the Senator's life so 
quickly on the heels of Mississippi. Bur 
here emerged the two sides of Joe 
Lieberman's political life-the desire to do 
right and the desire tO win. 

SHORTLY AFTER GRADUATING &om Yale 
Law School in 1967, the pupil was ready to 
apply the lesson. In 1970, Lieberman was 
27 and practicing law in the area when 
New Haven's State Senator Ed Marcus 
announced 
his 
candidacy 
for 
the 
Democratic parry's u.s. Senate nomination. 
Lieberman saw his opportuniry and 
entered his bid to replace Marcus as State 
Senator. After Marcus failed to win the 
nomination, a State Senate race futile in


---

the eyes of party insiders, between the 
recent graduate and the seasoned Senator, 
was on. But it was Marcus who would end 
up surprised. Employing Bailey's first rule 
of political success-organization, organi-
zation, organization-Lieberman enlisted a 
cadre of young volunteers, among them , 
Bill Clinton, then a law student at Yale. 
Lieberman mounted a relentless door-to-
door campaign and secured the voce of a 
vital constituency-Yale students who were 
allowed to vote in local elections for the 
first time that year. On Election Day, he 
shocked the Marcus campaign by rounding 
up senior citizens from a nearby retirement 
home and bringing them co vote in vans 
and station wagons. Lieberman went on to 
win the primary by 240 votes and, after 
that, the general election, remaining New 
Haven's State Senator for ten years and 
majority leader for the last six. 

In 1980, Lieberman ditched the State 
Senate and ran for the u.s. House of 
Representatives, but lost to a Republican 
opponent after watching a 17-point lead 
dwindle down to nothing in the final weeks 
of the campaign. Two years later, he 
returned to the scene a new man. With a 
political acumen that would have made 
Boss Bailey proud, he positioned himself as 
a man of the center, a maverick of the 
mainstream unafraid to buck party lines for 
what was right (or what would win), and 
emerged victorious as the new Connecticut 
Attorney General. While in office, he 
revived what had once been little more 
than a political sinecure into a showcase for 
high-profile prosecutions and investiga-
tions, gaining a reputation as a tireless pub-
lic advocate. From the Attorney General's 
office there was but one obvious destina-
tion to seek out next: Washington, the seat 
of power to which he had been denied 
access eight years earlier. Lieberman target-
ed Senator Lowell Weicker. And though 
Weicker was a Republican, Lieberman ran 
to his right, alleging that the Senator was 
out of touch with his constituency and 
using his office for financial gain. Still, he 
trailed for most of the race--that is, until 
he ran a now-legendary cartoon ad likening 
Weicker to a sleeping bear. The cartoon 
opens with a trail of "Zu:z:r.s" drifting from 
the entrance of a bear cave, and an over-
lizcd bear cozily sleeping through the roll 
0croBER IJ, 2000 
call vote. "On things that matter to him 
personally, he will always growl," says the 
narrator, "but sometimes when it matters, 
he is sleeping." Lieberman won the elec-
tion, but only by a mere IO,ooo votes. 

THERE MAY BE NO INDUSTRY in which One's 
heart and one's ambitions so frequendy col-
lide as they do in politics. Joe Lieberman, 
perhaps more than any other politician of 
his time, has tiptoed without visible effort 
along the fine line between selflessness and 
self-advancement. He has won four pri-
maries and nine elections--five in a row for 
the State Senate starting in 1970, two for 
State Attorney General in 1982 and 1986, 
and finally two more for the u.s. Senate in 
1988 and 1994-and lost only once. He has 
knocked off seemingly invincible oppo-
nents and-with the exception of only one 
or two small controversies--emerged from 
the fray with no visible mud on his suit and 
the Democratic nomination for Vice 
President to show for it. 

Many characters from Joe Lieberman's 
early days as an idealist and moral 
spokesman express quiet reservations about 
developments in his political life, such as 
his decision to run for Vice President and 
Senator concurrently rather than give up 
his seat to another Democrat. "The one 
thing I regret today is that Joe is not a con-
servative Jew and an orthodox Democrat-
they are a dying breed," said Coffin. Still, 
the Joe Lieberman of today, shrewd politi-
cian and "moral voice of the Senate," is to 
them not radically changed from the young 
idealist who published "Why I Go to 
Mississippi" in October of 1963. Joe 
Lieberman's days at Yale and the brilliant 
career to which they gave way bring into 
light a knot of complications. It was here 
that "the Senator" learned how public goals 
tangle with private intentions--and exactly 
how to exploit this complexity. 

1111 
Ronm Givony. a smior in Branford Co/kg~, 
is an associau ~ditor for TNJ. 
Dania Kurtz-Ph~lan, a sophomo" in 
&rlt~ky Co/kg~, is rararrh di1Yctor forTNJ. 
o/1



**Title: Yale's Building Boom**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yale is currently in the midst of its most intense phase of renovation and build-
ing since the 1920s and 1930s. In the past seven years, the University has spent 
more than $850 million on construction, and there are plans to invest over $1 bil-
lion more in the next decade. 

With goals as large as these, ilie reality is that most of us will be long gone 
before the last stones are put in place. But, in the meantime, while we maneuver 
around unexpected ditches and detour signs, we should try to think of all of this 
work around us as something other than a nuisance. It's worth a second look, not 
necessarily because it has an aesthetic of its own, but because it reminds us that 
change is constant. 

A static Yale has never existed. And although 
workmen and yellow tape, we can imagine one: a 
tographs, each building captured under fall 
Whether we appreciate it or not, we 
of tomorrow's Yale, while peeking inside the ....,..,&A2··-.-; 
at the same time. So, give it another look, and think 
photographs as a 
more honest viewbook of our University: a amrpus continually building 
. 



**How 500 Connecticut Inmates Ended Up in a Virginia Supermax**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
How 500 (~o1111ecticttt 
4 
D 
alzenia Henry's son was awakened in the middle of a 
cold December night last year, shackled, hog-tied, and 
put on a bus heading south. Twenty-two hours later, 
be arrived at Wallens Ridge State Prison, a super-max-
imum ("supermax") security facility in Virginia, and was placed in 
a cell where he would spend 13 hours of each day for the next six 
months. Neither Marcus Henry, a 23·feat!-<>ld New Haven man 
who is serving the sixth year of a 45-year prison sentence, nor his 
fumily was warned chat he would be moved out of state. Only when 
one of Marcus's friends called Ms. Henry did she learn that her son 
was in Virginia. "I liken it to slavery,'" she~ me. "They sold our 
fumilies 200 years ago, and rhef're dblns it again now, selling black 
men ro th~ lowest bidder. They used to seU to the highest bidder; 
now it's tbe towe.c. • 
I made plans to ~ 
.Ms. HeRry: :atJber home one day in late 
Sep~. Wa.IJcins along T"akdii Sttoec in New Haven's Dixwell 
.cleigh~. I~ 
~:iiil bikes and neighbors sitting 
'b'n their ~~~· ther and each other's company. 
Ms. 1-{entt W ~ 
~ned from 'J.Ofk when I arrived, so I 
'tnited on tbe~·ps in front of her home, a grey and maroon 
Y't<torlan sP.tt illto six aeanments. Soon, a cream-colored car 
pWJed. :up. aDd Ms. Henry, a..plump 42-year-old black woman, got 
~ 
rmctapp~ me. Her tiace wore a ssy..ile and no make~ and 
a lOose plaid shin covereJ the top of her blue spandiltx pants. Her 
home was a mess, she told nile apolOF~· Dff I mind if we went 
for coflee or suoutsJde? She jQinec!. ~AN\ dte tqp ledge of the steps 
and tQld me che stol"}J o(her son's transfer to ~ugit:P!: 
Marcus Henry was one of 484 Conneaieuc ~tes sent tO 
Wallens Ridge last .,ytar. The-- Connecticut Department of 
Correction (ooc) haS ~ibed the tranSfer; :Whiob took place in 
three installments, as~jfnmcd.iate resp~:to prison.cM!ItroWd-
ing in the S1ete of~t{nC:Ut." ~~tQ;.seni:l priSOMrS out 
of S~fe. hoWever, 9ias mad~tQ,e "c 
concern. In 1995~ 
Public Aa Number 
the "oHrunissioner of 
thc:-:.tal'!rs d>rn:criond 
Armstrong assured the public that only the "wont of the worst" 
criminals-those with the highest scaarity &evels, longest sentences, 
and disciplinary problems 
,.~ lle.ilig sent, a fitting group for a 
supermax prison. But a brief look at'the list of transferred inmates 
belies the use of these criteria. Many have sentences of between one 
and three years, and over 40 are serving time for non-violent drug 
offenses. It's difficult ro call even Marcus Henry, who is serving 45 
years, the "worst of the worst." When Marcus was 17, he and some 
friends got high and went to an after-hours club to steal drug 
money, his mother told me. During the robbery, a man inside the 
club shot at them, and they fired back, killing him. Marcus was 
charged with felony murder and robbery, and his court-appointed 
attorney encouraged him to accept a plea bargain, a typical recom-
mendation of over-burdened public defenders. Marcus pled guilty 
to manslaughter and twQ counts of robbery. "I love my child dear-
ly," Ms. Henry told me. "The last place I expected him to ~nd up 
was in jail. He's not the monster the Department of Correction is 
making him out to be." 


Marcus is no-longer incarcerated at Wallens Ridge. This past 
July, he and 156 other transferred Cbnnecticut inma~ were moved i 
to Greensville Correctional Center in Jaran. Varginia. Greensville is I 
intended to house prisoners with mid,;rkvel security dajSifications. 
and it offers educational, religious, and rehabilitative programs, 
which Wallens ~ge does !!9'· Ostentibly, Uunates w<i.!e transferred 
~ a rewill"d for good behaviOI', ~itt their transf. ..._ an important 
question: If rh_ese intnllles can be safely housed in a mid-level secu-
rity prison,..Jiy w~ 
th~ ever locket.l: up in a liilsb supermsrx? 


If the contract is a money-saver for Connecticut, it's a money-
maker for Virginia, a proud entrepreneur in today's corrections 
business. Some six years ago, Republican George Allen's get-tough-
on-crime rhetoric won him Virginia's gubernatorial election. 
fUtlllo,um crime had been on the decline in the state since 1993, 
iio'~rertllor Allen introduced barshec sentencing laws and massive 
prison construction. Prison spending grew twice as bst as spending 
higher education, totaling over $1 billion in less than a decade. 
Virginia incarcerates roughly 30,000 of its citizens, and near-
40 percent of this prison population is classified as maximum-
issues groups, and the National Association for the Advancement of 
Colored People, have called the mix of rhese guards and prisoners a 
disaster waiting to happen. Nearly all of rhe guards are white, while 
roughly 8o percent of the prisoners transferred from Connecticut 
are black or Latino. Prisoners claim they have been taunted with 
racial slurs, and Confederate flags and memorabilia decorate guards' 
cars and the warden's office. But racism is only part of the reason 
inmates have had difficulty adapting to Virginia's prison system. 
Wallens Ridge does nor provide any educational, religious, or reha-
bilitative programs, on which the Connecticut prison system prides 
. 
the second-highest percentage in the 
States. Nonethdess, Allen's prison-building 
over-projected the number of beds the state 
"Jt'a. 1 
"' ess 
irsel£ Inmates who were only classes away from 
receiving GEDs were whisked off to Virginia and 
lost their chance at the degree. Reading materials • 
including Bibles, are frequently confiscated, and 
• 
need by about 4-500. At an average con-
cost of $so,ooo _per ~ 
thac meant 
had wasted $us million. Sb, beginn~ in 
eX]>ens1ve 
inmates are locked in solitary confinement for all 
but one hour a day-and that only if they behave 
well. Wallens Ridge also violates privacy and attor-
ney-client privilege, monitoring and taping phone 
conversations between inmates and their attor-
neys. Prisoners at Wallens Ridge tell disturbing 
the Old Dominion State opeaecl its doon and 
im1>9rti.ng human beinga to fm iu empty 
and r~plenish Jhe dlte treasury. To4ay. 
has contracted not oaty with Connecticut, 
also Michigan, Vermont, Delaware, New 
for them to 
farm ottr 
children ottr. '' 
M~::xic•o, Iowa, and the Distria of Columbia, and baa 6Ued approx-
••~ery 3.500 of those wasted beds with out-of-state inmateS. 
The prison industry has stuffed not oruy Virginia's coffers. but 
pockets of several towns and their midents. Prisons mean jobs 
ter·.clc:prc~c:d regions. They offer year-round employment and are 
.,C:CSSIOn-pr,oot, even recessioo,.~ndly. becauie prison popUlations 
to grow during hard times. A feW years ago, Big Stone Gap, VA. 
lf(brgeJiltly in need of a new in~ 
Nestled in the heart of 
iiPalllll:hia, the town is home to fewer than 4..8:oo people. Its ~ 
ofters the mayot'~ greedag. informatiOn abour rhe town SO"'"' 
and churches, and uca .fDom.D schedules. But the site 
mention che Jayoffi at Wesunerelalacl Coal Compm,y in the 
WJ""'[)()S or the clcvatation these I~ 
causcc:L Onc:e dependent 
dying coal-mining in~ the peopfe of Big ~one G.-p 
!JIIlc~rate for jobs. and a prison offaed them just that. In .Apm 
Wallens Ridge-Vqinia"s seco.od supennax prisoa wu 
'&J""~.L The rator-wire~dosed complex. which sits arop a 
root rodqr ridge noted bi Weals for its rani~, ~ 
dJC 
stories about their conditions. Almost all allege 
improper hygiene and medical attention. Some say that female 
guards watch them shower and that guards have pretended to 
sodomize inmates with metal pipes. Others talk of being tied ro 
beds. spr~ed 
and naked, for up to 72 hours. 


According to prisoners, however, even these abuses pale in 
comparison tO the guards' use of guns with rubber bullets and elec-
tric shades. which are illegal in many states. Connecticut Prison 
Watch repons .rhat. during Wallens Ridge's first year of operation, 
gUards fired So rubber bullets and used stun guns 112 times, alleged-
ly shoCking inma~ for such minor infractions as refusing to return 
a paper cup and verbal insolence. The shocks are &r from harmless. 
Lawrence James Frazier, a Bridgeport man serving a sentence for 
l'apCf died on July 4 after guards shocked him repeatedly wirh a stun 
au~ 
he lapsed into a coma. When Amnesty International asked 
110 ~te 
conditions at Wallens Ridge following his death, 
Vi~ 
p.cUon ofticials barred the international human rights 
group ft:onl•cing the facility. Frazier's death was not the first at 
WaUe. :l6dge. Two months earlier, David Tracy, a 2.o-year,.old 
~aident sentenced to 30 months on a cocaine charge, 
~d 
at Wallc.8 JUdac four months before his release. His death was 
· 
but his £unily md Connecricut newspapers have 
Big Stone Gap ~jobs 
with be--~ 
high .Wics. 
new induary also ~aft -people ihexperieOccd u gu:uds 
and auth~ 
ot~Fr pjiirthaa I,~.SOII~Cl'§.JW..W>;;.. 
., &oln Vi~~~~·ritllli~..-.11'1.# 
was lcill¥. 


One abuse undeniably suffered by all of the transferred inmates 
is the distance they have been caken from their families. Big Scone 
Gap is roughly 720 miles from New Haven, which makes visiting 
difficult or impossible for prisoners' families. Ms. Henry has only 
been co visit Marcus once since he was moved co Virginia, and 
the trip cost her about $200. The cost of phone calls is another bur-
renewed its contracr wirh Virginia for another year, as government 
officials claimed their hands were tied. Earlier this year, public 
opposition quashed plans co convert New Haven's Goffe Street 
Armory into a new jail. At the same time, the public clamored to 
have the prisoners returned from Virginia. But, said officials, you 
can't have it borh ways: If you don't want a prison in your backyard, 
den. Phone companies know a profit-maker 
when they see it, and prisoners are perfect cus-
tomers: Phone calls are one of their few links 
to family and friends, and they must make 
most of their calls collect using whatever carri-
er the prison chooses. So, entering into mutu-
ally-profitable contracts with DOCS across the 
nation, phone companies charge inmates up 
to six times the normal rate for a call. Ms. 
Henry and Marcus spoke daily when he was 
incarcerated in Connecticut, but since he was 
In 1980, 
(~oiUlecticut's })rison 
})Opulation was 
under 4,000. Today 
it is 18,000 and 
then you have co accept prisoners being sent 
out of scare. 


For che most pare, scare legislators' opin-
ions about che transfer of prisoners co Virginia 
correspond co their feelings about the prison 
industry in general. Those who advocate a 
gee-cough-on-crime seance argue chat prison-
ers should have considered consequences 
before they broke the law, while those who 
challenge the prison system oppose che trans-
fer. State Representative William Dyson, how-
growing. 
moved co Virginia, they have only been able to speak once every 
cwo weeks. Still, Ms. Henry has been spending thousands of dollars 
co maintain chis minimal contact. 


THE TRANSFER OF INMATES from 
Connecticut co Virginia has generared vocal opposition, not only 
from inmates' families and prison issues groups, bur also from the 
Prison Guards' Union, which fears losing jobs. Bur despite concerns 
on all sides, there are no plans to bring inmares home; according to 
the DOC, there's just no space in Connecticut. The state recently 
~ .. -:-•;.,; ........ ~ ---
Educate -
·l.~t· 
}1k 
D ' 
.~~ 
011 t ),(. ... ~ 
I 
Incarcerat 
ever, undersrands the issue differently. He supports sending prison-
ers co Virginia out of necessity, but he finds fault with the entire 
prison system. To him, the transfer is the lesser of two evils. "First 
and foremost to me is that we don't build more prisons," he says. 
"Building prisons doesn't work. No matter how many beds we ere-
ace, we fill them up." Dyson also points out chat Connecticut has 
spent twice as much on corrections as on higher education since 
1991. "What's in better shape, our schools or our prisons?" he asks 
me rhetorically. "And we deem oursc:lves a civiliud society. We sac-
rifice our young co demonstrate chat we're rough on crime." 


According to Dyson, sending prisoners to Virginia allows state 
fUnds to be given to education that would otherwise be swallowed 
up by prison construction. 


But as Dyson acknowledges, framing the debate as only two-
sided glosses over an important question: Why has Connecticut's 
prison population surged to a dangerous level of overcrowding? 
Between 1960 and 1980, the state's prison population was relatively 
stable, hovering around 4,000. Today, it is approximately x8,ooo, 
and projections for the year 1005 are as high as 22,000. Curiously, 
violent crime in Connecticut decreased by roughly 20 percent in the 
past decade, but the inmate population keeps growing. 


The paradox is easily explained. Prisons are flooded largely due 
to the War on Drugs. Today, over two-thirds of Connecticut's 
inmates are serving time for non-violent, mostly drug-relared, 
offenses; more than 1,000 are incarcerated solely for drug posses-
sion. Also contributing ro the soaring prison population are the 
mentally ill, who found themselves forced out of closing mental 
hospitals in the 198os and 1990s only co be re-instirutionaliud-
this time in jail. Esrimates of the number of mentally ill inmates 
range from five ro 14 percent of the prison population. 


Connecticut's Prison and Jail Overcrowding Commission also 
aruibutes the growth to the "admission of 14 and 15 year olds due to 
[a] shift in the Juvenile Justice System." 


As more and more drug offenders are thrown in prison, 
Connecticut's drug rehabilirarion facilities become increasingly 
insufficient. Today, there are only 262 beds available in residential 
treatment centers and over 11,000 inmares eligible for those beds. 
So instead of being rehabilitated, drug offenders are sent to prison 
and discharged without treatment. This makes communities less 
safe, argues Sally Joughin, who co-founded People Against Injustice 
THE New JouRNAL 



**Title:  Alternatives to Incarceration**
**Author: Jessica Bulman**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
in 1996 to respond to rampant abuses of 
the criminal justice system. The group, 
which Dalzenia Henry joined after her son 
was moved, has organized around a variety 
of issues including, most recently, the 
transfer of prisoners to Virginia. Joughin 
believes that instead of transferring prison-
ers out of state, Connecticut should focus 
on finding better solutions at home. Much 
of her emphasis is on Alternative to 
Incarceration Programs (AlPs). If non-vio-
lent drug offenders and the mentally ill 
were sent to rehabilitation centers rather 
than prisons, she told me, there would be 
no need to send prisoners out of state, and 
everyone would be better off. "Prison 
should be a system of correction, not only 
punishment," she said. "Or they should at 
OctoBER 13, 2000 
least stop calling it the Department of 
Correction." 


It comes as a surprise to many that 
AlPS, like drug rehabilitation centers and 
mental hospitals, are cheaper than prisons. 
Substance abuse programs, for example, 
run about $5,000 per person per year, while 
it costs over $25,000 to keep a person in 
prison. According to recent polls, the peo-
ple of Connecticut support treatment pro-
grams, at least in theory. Why, then, isn't 
the state filled with AlPS rather than pris-
ons? The answer is money and policies. 
Legislators don't want to be labeled "soft on 
crime" for supporting treatment rather 
than incarceration, especially in an election 
year. Furthermore, just as no one wants to 
live next door to a prison, no one wants to 
live next to a rrearment center, and there 
are more factors stacked against AlPS. 


Connecticut pays towns to host prisons, 
which do not pay property taXes. For pris-
ons, this PILOT (Payment In Lieu OfTaxes) 
is 100 percent of the assessed property 
value, but the state pays less for facilities 
like treatment centers. Towns can also 
negotiate for certain benefits when they 
agree to build a prison. For example, 
Cheshire, which is home to five of 
Connecticut's prisons, has its sewer system 
managed and paid for by the state. "T he 
rown can make out like a bandit," Dyson 
told me. Four more Connecticut towns are 
now poised to rake in profits. 


In 
September, East Lyme, Montville, Somers, 
and Suffield submitted applications to the 
state for yet another planned prison expan-
sion. One East Lyme selectman said that 
enlarging the town's prison would be like 
bringing in ten new businesses. 


The inmate population is expected to 
swell by 4,000 over the next five years, and 
Connecticut has no plans to check this 
growth by funding rehabilitative programs. 
Twenty-five million dollars of this year's 
budget are already earmarked for incarcera-
tion. As long as prison building remains 
both politically expedient and a source of 
profit for localities, few of those in power 
will have a reason to take the long view-
and we will all pay the price. 
J~ssica Bulman, a junior in Bn-k~ley 
C<Jiieg~. is a managing ditor for TNJ. 

**Title: Letter from Prague**
**Author: Eric German**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

LETTER FROM PRAGUE 
What I saw at the revolution 
I'm in an abandoned builcling full of anarchist 
squatters, talking philosophy with Serotonin 
and Siv. Actually, Siv is doing most of the talk-
ing. 


He's an English philosophy student, and 
we met him wandering in the cold Prague 
night, looking for a place to sleep. Serotonin 
and I were catching a night tram over to the 
squat when bright-eyed Siv stepped from the 
shadows carrying a bedroll. 


Siv is 23, from PortSmouth, and he's giv-
ing me his Hegelian explanation for why he 
came to demonstrate against the IMP. "History 
is a progression," he says. "There's a direction 
to events, and a certain truth, or oneness, or 
unity, you know, underlying it all." Siv is lying 
on his sleeping bag, head propped on a hand. 
His sheep's-wool shock of brown hair sticks out 
philosophically. "And this IMF conference, this 
meeting, it's part of a progression that I think 
I've been seeing unfolding for awhile now." Siv 
is on the floor by Serotonin. I get the couch 
because I'm willing to deal with spiders. 


Our room is less vile than the rest because 
it's a workspace. 
These anarchistS produce a 
newspaper, and irs refuse--paper scraps, books, 
leftist magazines and empty beer bottles--clogs 
the place. We had to squeeze by the rusty 
printing press just to get in the door. 


Hard-core music pounds below 
us. The 
odors of beer and vomit waft up through dirt-
crusted floorboards. They mix with the smell 
of primer's ink and Siv's overpowering feet. He 
is off from school, working on organic farms 
across Europe, and he doesn't shower much. I 
rub my nose, wishing my head cold were 
worse, and keep listening. 


"You know, there were the demonstrations 
in Seattle, ones in Washington, actions in the 
U.K. 
Things are happening, I think," he says. 
"Things are changing. I want to be here to be 
pact of it. If I can find a reason to give for 
why I'm here, I think that's it." 


He doesn't ask me why I'm here and I 
don't bring it up. I wrote for Prague's only 
English weekly last summer and struck a deal 
with them for the fall: They pay airfare, and 
BY E RIC G ERMAN 
I cover the annual IMP and World Bank meet-
ings unpaid. My qualifications are scant. A week 
ago I was only vaguely aware that the IMP or 
World Bank existed, and my presem "expertise" 
derives from a pile of articles I nervously absorbed 
on the plane. 


But the paper needs scoops, and I'm poor. 
T his means I sleep with protesters. As the 
youngest staff writer, I simply have to "find out 
from those kids why they think they're here." 
So I don a black hooded sweatshirt and try to 
smell the zeitgeist. 


Rubbing my nose again, I ask Siv if these 
demonstrations share an underlying clirection, if 
these events have a goal. What world-historical 
endpoint are we seeking? He is quiet for some 
time: "Empathy," he says finally. "People having 
more of an understanding of the feelings and 
lives of others. If those guys in the IMP hear 
us, maybe it will help them see that what they 
do has an effect on the lives of millions of 
other people. Maybe it will make them be more 
careful. Feel some empathy for the people they 
are hurting, you know?" 


Siv turns to Serotonin and asks, "Do you 
know this word, 'empathy'?" Serotonin is 20, 
from Dresden, and his English-while better 
than our German-is patchy. Bent over a joint 
that won't come together, he hasn't heard a word 
Siv has said. His real name is Sven, but I've 
called him Serotonin ever since we met at a rave 
last summer where, with shaky-ecstatic hands, he 
scrawled his address on a napkin for me--sero-
tonin@som~thingindeciphtrable.com. He cooks in 
Dresden, earning just enough to rent a flat, 
travel, and rave. After we pacted last summer, 
Serotonin rave-hopped until he ran through his 
money. He told me once that, if it were up to 
him, he would be a techno-gypsy. 


Siv 
asks 
him 
again 
about 
empathy. 
Serotonin shrugs and passes 
the joint. Siv 
smokes and then tries to define the word. It 
takes awhile. I ask Serotonin why he came to 
demonstrate. "I heard about Seattle," he says. "I 
saw on TV the rioting and I want to see if this 
will turn out the same." His rave-wear sags off 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


his slouchy, string-bean frame as he sits 
on the floor. "You weren't in Seattle, were 
you?" Serotonin is the fiftieth person to 
ask me that since my arrival. No, I was-
n't there, I say. It's too bad you missed 
such a great time, he tells me. "I hope 
here it will rage like it did in Seattle," 
he says, blue eyes flashing above a grin. 


Two days later, it raged. Thousands of ~ 
masked 
anarchists--our hoses among 
them, I imagine--showered police with 
sticks, petrol bombs, and cobblestones torn 
from the streetS. The riotlines shot back 
tear gas, stun grenades, and water can-
nons. Cops, youth, fire, 
blood, and 
tears flooded the streetS near the IMP 
and World Bank's conference center. 


The protests were the most violent an 
IMP meeting has ever seen, and they had 
the newswires squawking. 
"s,ooo protesters unleashed a fresh 
round of fury against economic global-
ization!" 
"6,ooo 
enemies 
of 
capitalism 
marched on the IMP and World Bank 
surnmir Tuesday!" 
And the like. The press numbered the 
crowd, gave it one name, and one inten-
tion. From what I saw, the labels were 
ill-suited and the intentions lacking. 


I saw my squat-mates just before the 
riots. Siv was extremely worked up. But 
not about cops, globalization, or even 
Hegel. "My trip at the moment," he 
said. "is that I have got to have a piss. 
Can you point me to the loo?" Later, 
Siv joined a peaceful march of samba 
musicians, decked out in pink, who 
marched to the Congress Center simply 
making noise. Serotonin ducked the vio-
lence as well. Using his video camera as 
a prop, he obtained an independent 
media press badge to help dodge arrest. 
He watched the bash of the year &om 
the sidelines and, with any luck, got it 
all on tape. 


Neither I nor my two comrades 
can say much about globalization, the 
IMP, or the World Bank. We were sim-
ply country-hopping bums, looking for 
a place to sleep and an event to join. 
We were not thugs, and we came to 
Prague in good faith. I came for a 
story. Serotonin for a party. Siv, for a 
piece of world history. I believe we 
fOund all three. 
181 
Eric Gn-man is a senior in 
Branford Co/kg~. 
0croBER IJ, 2000 

916 Whalley Ave. • New Haven • 
Student 
Discounts 
minutes from yale 
~~ [}{] & l1YAJ & 
Japanese Restaurant 
* BEST JAPANESE -
St.a~e Runner-Up 
CT Magazin~ Rea~r's Choice PoLL I998-2oou 
* BEST JAPANESE - N~ Haven Councy 
CT Magaz1ne Readers" Choice Poll I998-2oou 
Dinner... Sunday- Thursday s:oo pn1 - 9:30 prn 
Friday- Saturday 4:4s prn - 10:00 pm 
Sus}]. 
Lunch... 
Monoay - rriday U:30 a.rn - :l.:jO prn 
'1 Cllteri 
'1206 Dixwell Avenue. H amden 
l1g 
203-281-4542 
FAX. 203-407- '1 65 '1 
www.hamact.com 
A Yale Tradition for 
Over25 YeatS 
Entrees featuring flavors from 
around the world: 
Mexican, Italian, 
Mediterranean & Oriental-
homemade, fresh and delicious! 
Exciting Salads and hearty 
soups. Nutritious juices and 
smoothles mode to order. 
Scrumptious desserts, gourmet 
coffees and more ... 
27 



**Hitchhiker's Guide to the**
**Author: Patrick Casey Pitts**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I n the title of Michelin's new Grem Guide to Yale University and 
New Haven, the city and the institution of higher education huddle 
together, Like college sweethearts in a twin bed, separated by a mere 
conjunction. After 300 years of often strained coexistence, Yale and 
New Haven, it seems, have finally joined together in a blessed 
union that is a worthy subject for one of the world's most respect-
ed travel publishers. The blandishmems surrounding the new 
Guide's birth confirm this impression: At a press conference cele-
brating the Guide's completion, both Yale University Prcsidem 
Richard Levin and New Haven Mayor John DeStefano, Jr., empha-
sized the harmonious rapport between Old Blue and the Elm City. 
For blushing bride DeStefano, the Guide "underscores the benefi-
cial relationship between the city and Yale." Levin, the proud 
groom, echoes these sentiments: "I can think of no better way co 
honor our partnership." Naturally, I approached Michelin's Guide 
expecting a cheerful depiction of its nvo subjects and the union that 
ended years of strife, some sort of Mid-Connecticut Night's D"am. 
However, the saga is anything but romantic or comic, more 
akin to that of Aeneas and Dido or Catherine and Heathcliff than 
Hermia and Lysander. The story revealed is more like a bad high 
school play in which the school's diva grabs the spotlight and forces 
the more timid actors into the unlit corners of the stage. Rather 
than celebrating a peaceful and prosperous relationship, the Guide 
seems to parody the Yale-centrism that many see as che perpetual 
stumbling block in Yale-New Haven relations with its onslaught of 
Yale matter and its dearth of New Haven content. After wading 
through a Cervantes-length account of the University, one almost 
comes to believe that Michelin intentionally ignored irs Sancho 
Panza in favor of rosy tales of its Don Quixote. 


One need not even open the Guide co get a sense of irs true 
focus. Although the words "Yale University and New Haven'' are 
emblazoned across the center of the cover, all the other graphics fea-
ture only Yale. Directly under the ride is a picture of a corner of the 
Branford courtyard, the vista most over-used by Yale's publicity 
machine. Beneath this photo, Handsome Dan sits on the Yale 
Fence, a Georgian window peeks out from behind its cover of ivy, 
and the now-ubiquitous tercentennial logo shines forth in pure 
white text. Together, the trinity proves the equity proclaimed by the 
Guide's ride to be as illusory as the University's policy on alcohol 
consumption. The only reminder of the non-Yale Elm City is 
indirect at best: small, vertical text reading "with hotels and restau-
rants." This, despite the Guide's own acknowledgement that New 
Haven's trademark green and three churches are "the most beautiful 
and most photographed view in New Haven." In a guide that 
ostensibly depicts New Haven, the relegation of its most beautiful 
sight to a murky watercolor at the bottom of two later pages seems 
too contradictory to be accidental. 


The first eight pages, a visual tour preceding the text, reinforce 
this impression with a blitz of Yale-related images that overwhelm 
the occ.'lSional mention ofNew Haven, present only when absolute-
ly necessary: on the ride page, the table of contents, and the first 
map. The successive visuals seem to be drawn from the Admissions 
Viewbook. Included are the Yale Seal in its full-color, Larin and 
Hebrew glory; a watercolor of Harknj!SS Memorial Tower and the 
Memorial Gateway (minus construction workers and dumpsters); a 
student poring over her work under autumn leaves; and a map that 
features all of Yale but lacks such New Haven destinations as 
Wooster Square, Ease Rock, and Long Wharf. 


When the introduction proper begins, New Haven reencers the 
picture. Because it predates che University by some 63 years, the city 
necessarily occupies the first half of the first page of the introduc-
tion's history section. However, with the arrival of Yale in the mid-
dle of the page, New Haven almost disappears. Throughout the sec-
tion, Michelin glosses over grand events in New Haven history in 
favor of petty particulars concerning Yale. Two of the most impor-
tant events in New Haven's hiscory, the Amistad affair and the con-
cealment of the regicides at West Rock, receive nearly the same 
amount of space as the opening of Yale's Henry R. Luce Hall. 


After a short list of hotels, restaurants, and night spots, Yale 
receives 42 pages of the Guide, with headings that cover such cru-
cial topics as "Yale Today," "Traditions," "Student Life," "Legacy," 
"Three Centuries of Growth," and "Evolution of the Campus." 
This section includes two walking tours of the campus, describing 
in detail everything from the phallic wonder of Harkness Tower to 
the grandiose mansions on Hillhouse Avenue to the unforgettable 
tablet in Berkeley's wall commemorating the site of Yale's first tele-
phone exchange. It also includes four-page guides to both the 
British Art Museum and the University Art Gallery, not only 
describing in detail the different sections of each museum floor, but 
also providing lessons in art history for the uninitiated reader. 


If one disregards the occasional Yale office in the New Haven 
Savings Bank building, pages 64 and 65 showcase the Guide's first 
Yale-less photo. These are followed by the ten pages that constitute 
New Haven's portion of the Guide. Although New Haven is, sur-
prisingly enough, much larger than Yale, the Guide provides only 
one extensive walking tour of the city and a paragraph-long 
Wooster Square tour. The main walking tour seems to embody the 
work's main flaw: At no point can the tourist turn in a complete cir-
cle without seeing Yale University. The tour is more an inculcation 
of the Yale administration worldview than a way to become 
acquainted with New Haven. Unlike the detailed four pages that 
the Yale University Art GaJiery receives or the one page devoted to 
the Collection of Musical Instruments, only one paragraph deals 
with the New Haven Colony Historical Society. Like Kline-Biology 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


The Yale-centrism of the Guide is most likely a result of its 
progenitors, the folks at the Yale Tercentennial Office. A guide by a 
world-renowned publisher that skips over as much of New Haven 
as possible seems to be the perfect accompaniment to a celebration 
that will be broadcast throughout the world so that alumni need 
not return to New Haven. However, the Guide is nowhere near as 
subtle nor as cunning as the University's standard modus operandi; 
the obtrusiveness of the Guide's slant leads one to search for answers 
outside the frequently shadowy operations of the University. In fact, 
the impression that remains with the reader afrer finishing the 
Guide -that something is missing, that some crucial part has been 
withheld-is so strong that this failure seems intentional. Could the 
lack of New Haven content be a deliberate ploy on Michelin's part 
to critique and subvert the University's magnificent tercentennial 
celebration with a chilling portrait of unrelenting Yale-centrism? In 
accepting Yale's proposal and publishing this opus extolling the 
wonders of Old Blue, was Michelin able to bite the very hand that 
fed it the idea without arousing any notice? Could Michelin, like 
Shakespeare, Moliere, or other subtly subversive scribes, have man-
aged to indict the institution that it claims to praise? 


By packaging a version of The Yak (albeit somewhat more 
Yale-centric) under a title that includes both Yale and New Haven, 
the· Guide parodies the very concept it embodies. Still, the question 
of authorial intent remains. Did Michelin merely do an inadequate 
job, or did the company succeed in criticizing its own benefactors? 
If Michelin chooses to turn the university-town theme into a series, 
future guides may provide an answer: a Princeton guide focusing 
entirely on the golf courses, yacht clubs, and BMW dealers near cam-
pus; a Brown guide without any sort of logical structure that allows 
the reader to choose his or her own path through the text; a 
Harvard guide "that leaves the reader miserable but sure that some-
how, someday, the reading experience will prove invaluable. Any 
one of these works would prove that Michelin intended much more 
than praise in its Guuu to Yale and New Haven. 
I8J 
Patrick Casey Pitts, a sophomore in Berkeley Colkge, 
-
is on thestajf ojTNJ. 
0croBER 13, 2000 



**Quoth the Ravens, Nevem1ore**
**Author: Michael Gerber**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

T 
he last page of the playoff edition of the New Haven Ravens 
program tells the story of Rally and Ribbi's wedding. 
Apparently, the two mascots became Mr. and Mrs. Raven on 
August 6 at Yale Field. Guests at the wedding included the Mariner 
Moose, who flew in from Seattle, and local mascot Handsome Dan, 
the Yale Bulldog. Immediately following the wedding. a baseball 
game was played. 


Baseball doesn't seem to be a top priority for Ravens fans. lc's 
certainly on the list-maybe above the sumo matches chat occa-
sionally occur between innings, probably below the fireworks that 
follow some games, and definitely below cotton candy and beer. 
Way below beer. 


This doesn't make it easy for the Ravens marketing team. 
When a Major League team makes che playoffs, selling tickets is not 
a problem. For the Ravens, the opposite is rrue. Playoff games are 
not on the schedules printed at the beginning of the season, so peo-
ple don't plan on coming to them. The playoffs also happen during 
che school year, when parents are not as likely to bring their chil-
dren. So the Ravens resort to gimmicks like fireworks, giveaways, 
and having twice as many mascots as your average baseball team. 


On September 14, the Ravens hosted game three of the Eastern 
League championship series. They had split the first two games with 
the Reading Phillies, so the title was well within reach. Game three 
also happened to be college night-for three bucks, a few friends 
and I gor seats at the picnic tables behind the right field fence, free 
food, and two-dollar drafts. "Free" tee-shirts, too--if you tipped the 
bartender. Because we were basically the only ones out there, we got 
a lot of attention: from other funs, from Ravens employees, from 
the players, and from the mascots. The mascots' attention was 
something we probably could have done without-let's just say that 
Rally wasn't being too faithful to his new bride or all that respectful 
of my friends' personal space. 


At first, everybody else in the crowd seemed to be enrhusiastic 
about the game, but that was probably just because beers were half-
off when the Ravens were up. We kept cheering well after the 
Ravens took the lead, bur that was probably just because we were 
drunk. By cheering for the Ravens I mean, of course, harassing the 
opposition. In particular, we belitded the Phillies right fielder's abil-
ity, his home town, and members of his family whom we had never 
met. And with such a small crowd, he heard every word we said. I 
know, because 
he laughed at us. The Ravens players heard us, too, because their 
right fielder tossed me a baseball, and the pitchers in the bullpen 
joined us when we started the wave. 


That one tossed baseball began the greatest friendship with a 
professional athlete that I've ever had. I didn't know it at the rime, 
but one short day later, I'd be ar a bar putting back drinks with 
Keith Gordon, ex-Major Leaguer. Our enthusiasm had paid off: 
Two sales executives who were working the game came over to 
thank us for coming our, and we ended up with free tickets to the 
next night's game. 


The Ravens had won, and we were back for the series final-
thjs time behind the home dugout. That night, the Ravens became 
Eastern League champions, clinching the "World Series of AA base-
ball on the East Coast of the United States of America." I found 
myself chanting "We're Number One!" along with the funs and 
players, celebrating my two-day-old loyalty. We felt like we were 
part of the ream, especially after our friends from the night before 
stopped by to talk to us, and even more so when they invited us to 
TK's to celebrate with the Ravens players and staff. 


It was there that I ran into Keith Gordon, the Ravens player 
who had thrown me that baseball. And that's how he ended up buy-
ing me drinks. There was really no way to turn him down. I tried 
all the excuses I could come up with. I told him I had already had 
a couple beers. He grabbed the waitress and told her to get me a 
Sam Adams. I reminded him that I was there as a journalist. He 
yelled across the bar and cold the waitress to make it two. With a 
glass of beer in each hand, I pointed out that I weighed much less 
than the average professional athlete. He bought me another beer. 


Gordon's Major League scats aren't exactly impressive. In three 
games with the Cincinnati Reds in 1993, he had one hit in six at-
bats. He struck out twice. He told me he got called up by the 
Orioles for a week but I guess he never batted in Baltimore. In his 
eleven years in professional baseball, he didn't last a month in the 
Majors. He might never make it back. Bur he didn't seem upset by 
that. He almost quit before the season and may not play next year. 


Even if Gordon does return to baseball, he won't be coming 
back to New Haven. For the last few seasons, the Ravens have been 
a farm team for Seattle, and now the Mariners are pulling out of the 
deal, taking the players with them. It's not a surprise. New Haven 
doesn't appreciate the team-attendance records are the lowest in 
the league. Next year, the Ravens will still be here, bur a new flock 
of players will play for the St. Louis Cardinals farm system. Chances 
are, Mark McGwire won't be among them. And maybe most of the 
Ravens won't make the big leagues. But when has Mark McGwire 
ever bought me a beer? 
Micha~L G"bn-. a smior in Ezra Stiln Co/leg~. 
is a contributing ~ditor for TNJ· 



**Title: PIIII'IIIS PillS**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
... that's what you will say when you Experience 
our Quality ... our Speed ... our Student Discounts ... 
PIIII'IIIS PillS 
7AST£ST ... I Stop Imaging 
Come in for your Student Discount Card 
FREE this month only 
OcrosER 13, 2000 
TWO New Haven Locations 
930 Chapel Street, Op. New Haven Green, 203-624-2599 
45 York Street, Op. Yale N. H. Hospital, 203-785-1900 
31 


**Title: TYCO**
**Page number(s): 32**

C1U TYCO 
-
Ianners 
- ~, 
C3B~out@ 
Business Cards 
Color Copies 
CasseHe Copying 
CuHing 
Desktop Publishing 
Digital Output 
Faxing 
rf®(J@]But@ 
Laminating 
Large Document Copying 
Large Fonnat Color 
, Mailing 
Mounting 
~~[?Out@ 
Printing 
Passport Photos 
Resumes 
Rubber Stamps 
Scanning 
Xeroxing 
\!lslt TYCO 
To 
(203) 562-9723 
1-888-TYCOCOPY 
www.tycocopy.com 
Family owned and operqted since 1971 
262 Elm Street, New Haven

