Publication date: 02/05
Volume 37, Issue 4

**The Yale Green Building Project**
**Author: Flora Whitfield**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The process of choosing an architect was highly elective and demanded the attention of two committees. The Architect Selection Committee is made up mostly of administrators-"the committee with the teeth," says James Axley, a landscape architect who co-teaches a sustainable design class with Kellen. Axley himself sits on the other committee, the FES Facility Committee. Stephen Kellert is the Chairman of both. The Selection Committee is "nominally in power to advise the President," Axley says, but ultimately, President Levin has the final sway. 

The initial list of sixty potential architects was chosen based on the architects' experience with sustainable design. The first cut was done internally, without input from the architects. "Doing a shower stall for your room doesn't qualify you to do a building at Yale," said Delphenich, who serves on the Administrative committee. From the original sixty, thirty were asked for "RFQs" (Requests for Qualifications). Twenty-four of the thirty responded to the request. ("This was a very high number," says Kellert.) Architects on the original list included William McDunough, who did a high-profile green building at Oberlin College. After this, 12 were asked to submit a proposal indicating their approach to the project and invited for an on-site visit. Six of these architects were interviewed by the selection committee, which included President Levin, Dean Stern of the School of Architecture and Stephen Kellen. Delphenich, also present at all the interviews, said that of the six, "three really stood out. There was really no question." The three finalists were all European-not a surprise considering Europe is ahead of the United States in terms of green design. "Sustainability has been embedded in architecture there for years--they are way ahead of us," Delphenich says. 

Europe, according to Dean Speth, "resisted totally ventilated environments." Europeans created laws setting sustainability standards: "In an office, you must be within thirty feet of a window in Europe." Stern adds. He attributes the laws to stronger office-worker unions that pushed for these types of regulations; he also notes that, for the most part, the climate is less harsh, making green design easier to implement. The U.S. had similar standards in the '20s, which affected the construction of Rockefeller Center in which all desks are within 27 feet of a window. But after the invention of air conditioning, the standards were quickly dropped. Sustainability concepts are just beginning to resurface in this country, but if Europe is any indication, green design will be a significant element of the future of architecture. 

To decide between the final three architects, Yale sent Kellert, Delphenich and several other members of the committees around the world to see the architects' buildings and kick the tires, so to speak. The Yale representatives spent most of their time in London and the Netherlands. "We went to visit many of the buildings of the finalists because there is rhetoric and there is reality," Kellert says. "A lot of this is new. So you have to go see how these things perform." 

The traveling evaluators were concerned with the user-friendliness of the buildings. They asked questions like: "Okay, they did all these things to reduce mechanical energy and they eliminated air conditioning, okay, but do you like working here? Is it comfortable? After all, it's about comfort too." Seeing the buildings in person helped a great deal in coming to a conclusion, Delphenich and Kellen agreed. 

The three architects that made it to the final round are what Axley calls "the cream of the crop"-Alan Short, Stefan Behnisch and Sir Michael Hopkins. Short, Chair of Architecture at Cambridge University, who is renowned for naturally cooling his buildings with oversized chimneys, plans to work with his Cambridge colleague Andrew Wood and environmental engineer, Malcolm Cook. The Sunday Times described his work as, "heart-on-sleeve, manifesto architecture. It is saying that ecological thinking can and should result in buildings that not only are different, but look different as well, with new shapes, new roofscapes." His buildings are bold, beautiful, and always green. 

Stefan Behnisch works out of Stuttgart, Germany and is slated to teach at the Yale School of Architecture (YSOA) next year. His corresponding environmental team includes Tomas Auer, a leading faculty member at the YSOA. The members of the selection committee visited Behnisch's 200,000 square foot Genzyme building in Cambridge, Massachusetts, one of his most famous works. Behnisch's firm, Behnisch, Behnisch & Parmer, also designed the Forestry Research Building in the Netherlands. This building, like Genzyme, pushed the envelope of sustainable design. It was described by the firm as a "low-tech building with a high-tech result where scientists can work in almost Eden-like surroundings." Of the final architects selected, Behnisch's work is perhaps the most cutting edge, but can he design a green building that fits in the Yale context? His green architecture is often glassy and modern-it is hard to imagine a sister to the Genzyme building blending in with its would-be gothic neighbors. 

Sir Michael Hopkins, who taught at YSOA last year, focuses on using environmentally friendly products in his designs. His team is made up of Patrick Bellum and Ove Arup. Hopkins' most significant project was huge: he won the design contest for University of Nottingham's new million square foot campus in Nottingham, England. He also designed the new and expensive Parliament building in Westminster. His designs are black tuxedos to Short's informal and flamboyant party outfits. Hopkins' work is more academic than that of Short or Behnisch-but perhaps less fun. 

But Hopkins' tuxedos are more green than black. One can imagine his formal Parliament building quietly moving into a neighborhood that includes Harkness Tower and Sterling Memorial Library, and that formalism ultimately may be a good fit for Yale's mandate. And in fact Kellett confirmed this. Although nothing has been finalized, Hopkins is Yale's top choice. 

According to Axley, "the architects that are competing are very interested in securing this project." But why would these world-class architects care about securing a 27 million dollar, 50,000 square foot building, in which they'll be at the mercy of a dozen egos, all with deep interests and firm ideas about how the building should come out? There seem to be several reasons, beyond the obvious "it's Yale and Yale is famous"-though that part of the story should not be underestimated. "This is a very interesting building and of course, Yale is an important client," Dean Stern says. Axley concurs, "This project is going to be relatively high profile, well beyond the national level." 

But Yale also provides a type of security that other project sites do not. As Axley points out, architects want their work to last. "Architects are in the game of sustaining buildings. Yale ups the ante because it is old. Architects assume their buildings will remain for hundreds of years." 

In sustainable architecture, this point is also important. Because the assumption is that the building will stick around for as long as the University does, the risk of putting up a premium with the promise of future savings is less risky. This may be smart business in a more fundamental way. This little piece of paradise could be an indicator of Yale's academic future. "President Levin seems to have more interest in this--that's the rumor," Axley says. "Why was the faculty at FES expanded? Why was Dean Speth selected? Was that an accident?" Axley suggests that it was not. "Levin is interested in FES and because of this, environmental studies is of greater importance." Axley argues that because environmental problems are not going away, putting the University's stock in environmental research is a safe bet. 

Building this new, state-of-the-art, definition-expanding building demonstrates a commitment to environmentalism that will inevitably contribute to Yale's image as environmentally conscious. It will, in turn, attract environmental researchers, which will bring more grants. "There is an ethical and moral responsibility," Axley says. "But also this can position the research machine to keep the intellectual machine growing." 

At the very least, the process of looking for a green architect has affected the mindset of powerful people on campus. "I came away with a whole new level of commitment to addressing sustainability in projects. I think we have a moral obligation," Delphenich says after her trip to Europe. Competition with other universities will also drive Yale forward-the "bigger better" mentality, as Delphenich dubs it, serves as a prod. "One trap we haven't fallen into," she assures me, "is hiring significant architects to do wildly controversial, wildly expensive buildings to attract students. There is a certain cache to putting up a building by a world architect; I don't think we've felt the need to do that. We've selected architects because they are right for the job." 

According to President Levin, a final decision has been made and negotiations are underway. Delphenich says that there was "complete unanimity" regarding the architect who was selected. He was seen as the most holistically-thinking of the three, Delphenich added. "President Levin has a great talent for architecture and he makes decisions for the right reasons." But ultimately, the idea was that after paring down the list from thirty to three, any of the architects could have done the job. "It is up to us to make sure that President Levin sees only the people who can do the job--then it's his sense of what's right," Delphenich says. 

If it seems strange to have President Levin, an administrator with no architectural training, choose the architect, Dean Stern points to the advantages of having a non-architect make the final call: "I sometimes think that it's better that they are not hired by other architects-architects tend to be jealous." Plus, Stern adds, "Levin has very good instincts." 

THE ARCHITECT SELECTED FACES A TASK. The task of inventing sustainability on Yale's campus for an audience that stretches around the world, on a hilly site, on a superblock, in a region with hot and humid summers, in New Haven, Connecticut. There is a lot riding on this building. 

But in some ways success is certain. All three finalists are acclaimed and green-minded. The money has been raised. The University and FES seem determined to build. What we will not know until 2008, or until the building has been put to the test, is not whether it will be an obvious failure-Yale would never allow that-but whether it will be a subtle failure. Although we don't know what shade the building will ultimately be, for the first time, Yale blue is shooting for deep green. 

Flora Whitfield, a senior at Dartmouth College, is the Editor-in-Chief of TNJ. 

Special thanks to: 
Qi Yan • Casey Miner 
Katy Rivlin • Sara Schneider 
Ricky Kamp • Adina Lopatin 
Lissy Desantis • Ruth Lichtman 
From: TheNewJournal