Publication date: 02/05
Volume 37, Issue 4

**Title: The Newhall Neighborhood: A Story of Environmental Injustice**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T
HE HOUSE in the Newhall neighborhood 
of Hamden seemed perfect to Elizabeth 
Hayes; it had been on the market for 
months, waiting patiently for Hayes until she 
was ready to buy. In March 1996, soon after 
the sale went through, she began to plan for 
extensive renovations and went downtown 
for a building permit. The Hamden building 
official discouraged her from investing in her 
new property, suggesting she wait and move 
to a different neighborhood in a few years. 
Elizabeth disregarded the advice-she thought 
she had gotten a good deal. 
Nine years after moving, Hayes has 
gone from quiet neighbor to community 
activist, and is currently leading the charge 
for environmental justice in the Newhall 
neighborhood. Her home is one of over three 
hundred built on an old toxic waste dump. 
Since she moved, high levels of lead, arsenic, 
and other hazardous materials have been 
discovered in several nearby backyards. This 
environmental disgrace prompted Hayes to 
take action. She has been one of the most 
outspoken members of the neighborhood, 
demanding accountability from the town, 
state, and corporations responsible for the 
dumping. Stationed in the back room of 
the Newhall Coalition office on a freezing 
December afternoon, surrounded by maps 
·of the neighborhood, newspaper clippings, 
and pamphlets outlining 
the state and 
national standards for various toxins, Hayes 
recounts the evolution of the environmental 
catastrophe. 


I
N 1999, pending a possible expansion, 
surveyors began testing ground around 
the Hamden Middle School in the Newhall 
neighborhood. The initial assessment revealed 
that the school stood on top of a marsh, which 
had been filled in the 19 50s. 
Consequent 
testing revealed toxic chemicals in the athletic 
fields. Still, a study conducted by a team of 
local professors found no immediate health 
risk to the teachers or kids. The Connecticut 
Department of Environmental Protection 
(DEP) reached similar results. 
But, in 
December 2000, DEP surveyors still removed 
four inches of topsoil from the contaminated 
areas and the town added a layer of clean fill. 
The findings of the initial investigation 
alarmed 
teachers, parents 
and 
Newhall 
homeowners and prompted a series of town 
meetings at the middle school. While the 
official test results claimed there was no health 
threat, homeowners pointed to noteworthy 
cases of teachers who had contracted cancer 
during their long tenures. The DEP and local 
environmental experts could not guarantee that 
the landfill was not related to these sicknesses, 
compelling some teachers to leave their jobs. 
That year, Christmas vacation was prolonged 
for three weeks so that topsoil could be 
removed. This prompted parents to protest 
on both sides-some calling for immediate 
relocation of the school, others complaining 
that the risk had been blown out of proportion 
and that the students be allowed to return to 
school immediately. Classes reconvened in late 
January, and architects began drafting plans to 
expand the school. 
Joe Frasier, an employee of Hamden 
Public Schools, had been following the 
investigation of the middle school closely but 
was often to attend the meetings, so he asked 
his friend Elizabeth Hayes to attend. Childless 
and relatively new to the neighborhood, Hayes 
had only a vague interest in the school scandal, 
but decided to go and listen as Frasier had 
suggested. Without ties to the school, Hayes 
was able to hear these discussions from a 
different perspective. 
Despite 
substantial 
public controversy over the school, there was 
absolutely no mention of the surrounding 
community. These meetings prompted Hayes 
to wonder: if there was a landfill, how far did 
the contamination extend? The highest levels 
of waste had been measured in the fields on 
the outskirts of the school's property, adjacent 
to residential areas and public parks. And yet, 
no testing conducted beyond the school's 
perimeter. 
The question of Newhall's vulnerability 
led Hayes and Frasier to unearth critical 
history. 
They started asking some elderly 
residents of the neighborhood's what the 
Newhall neighborhood had looked like before 
the school and houses were built in the '50s. 
The unanimous reply was, "a dump." Mayor 
Carl Amenta explained to them that there had 
been a mosquito problem in Harnden's natural 
wetlands, prompting the area to be filled. When 
they asked what material had been used as fill, 
the mayor assured them there was nothing to 
worry about. 
With the publicity generated by the middle 
school's cleanup project and the planned 
relocation, more reports of cases cancer deaths 
of former Newhall residents came in from as 
far as, Mississippi, California and Colorado. 
Two Hamden residents, a father and son living 
in the same house on Newhall Street, had died 
of cancer within years of each other. Parents 
reported children with learning disabilities. 
Residents stopped eating the vegetables from 
their gardens and awaited information about 
potential toxins in the groundwater. But once 
again, neither the local authorities, nor the 
DEP nor the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA), could conclude that there was 
a correlation between the contaminants in the 
soil and the deaths. 
But Joe Frasier felt his community's 
concerns were being ignored and contacted the 
DEP to demand further testing. In April2001, 
at the state's request, the EPA conducted an 
investigation of surface soil contamination on 
three residential areas neighboring the middle 
school. Tests confirmed Frasier's suspicions: 
eight residential properties were contaminated 
with up to 4,700 parts per million (ppm) lead 
in the surface soil and high levels of polycyclic 
aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH). 
Under national standards, lead, which can 
cause brain damage and learning disabilities in 
children, is considered hazardous if there are 
greater than 400 ppm in areas where children 
play, or 1200 ppm in close proximity. PAH, a 
compound of several chemicals formed during 
the incomplete burning of coal, oil, gas, and 
garbage, sticks to particles in the soil and may 
be carcinogenic if ingested or exposed to the 
skin in great quantities. In August 2001, based 
on the high levels of lead and PAH in the 
surface soil samples from Newhall, the EPA 
initiated a "time-critical removal action" and 
called for further testing by the DEP. 
Faced with the enormous cost of 
conducting these soil tests-which require 
exttacting cores of dirt from as deep as thirty 
feet below the surface and extensive laboratory 
testing-the DEP identified four "potential 
responsible parties" for the contamination: the 
Board of Education (at one point the owner 
of the Hamden Middle School property), the 
South Central Connecticut Regional Water 
Authority (RWA), the town of Hamden (which 
operated a dump in the neighborhood during 
the 1930s and 40s), and Olin Corporation, a 
company that owns Winchester Ammunitions, 
the area's primary manufacturer of hazardous 
waste. 
As the investigation mewed forward, 
Elizabeth Hayes became a regular fixture at 
the public meetings, acting as "backup" for 
Frasier. With a degree in business, Hayes had 
known nothing about environmental justice, 
hazardous chemicals or political activism. 
She sat quietly and listened from the back of 
the room, absorbing as muCh of the mosdy 
technical discussions as she could. "People 
underestimated me," Hayes says. "They didn't 
think I have any sense because I like to extract


--- Page 15 ---

all the information, then clissect it. I want to 
look at things, understand them, read about 
them before I open my mouth. Yes, I like to be 
informed." Over time she learned the etiquette 
of activism and the vocabulary of tox.ics, so 
when Frasier asked Hayes to spend an entire 
Saturday in early 2002 at an environmental 
justice conference at Yale, she agreed. 
"That was a major turning point for me," 
Hayes recalls. Before attencling the conference, 
she had viewed the problem-from the 
perspective of her own neighborhood, only 
considering the issues in terms of how they 
affected her and her neighbors in the immecliate 
future. At Yale that day, Hayes was compelled 
by examples of other contaminated sites 
strikingly similar to Newhall and began to look 
at her community's experience in a clifferent 
light. She met professors and students who 
were interested in the Newhall problem, and 
returned home that evening with a renewed 
sense of ~ency. "I wanted to know how we 
could get the system to work for us, because 
that's what it's supposed to do." 
At Yale, Hayes met important contacts, 
including Forestry students Vic Edgerton 
and Sarah Vogel, who would later conduct a 
survey of the Newhall neighborhood. She also 
got in touch with the Toxics Action Center 
(fAC), an organization that aids New England 
neighborhood groups fighting pollution in 
their communities. The Newhall Coalition, 
formed in the early stages of the investigation 
during 2001, was now supported and advised 
by the TAC. Meanwhile, Hayes continued to 
attend seminars and research contamination 
and political activism. 
Hamden residents who didn't live in 
Newhall were still mainly concerned about 
the fate of the middle school. Controversy 
continued to rage between parents, teachers, 
school administrators and town officials 
over the 
appropriate 
response 
to 
the 
contamination. 
Close to the New Haven town line and 
located in the lowest-income neighborhood 
of Hamden, the middle school's sole building 
houses every seventh and eighth-grade student 
in town. Matriculating from eight different 
elementary schools, the educational fate of 
many were at stake. The school's planned 
expansion, which led to the initial cliscovery 
of contamination, was a response to the 
school's overpopulation. Concerned parents 
lobbied for an extensive renovation of the 
building. When test results began to come in, 
however, Hamden residents had justification 
for a complete relocation of the school and 
February 2005 
put pressure on the mayor to find a "more 
suitable" property. 
The cost of rebuilding the school at its 
current site in Newhall was roughly S3 million 
less than the cost of buying another property 
and constructing an entirely new school. But 
this didn't cliscourage many middle school 
teachers and parents who advocated relocation. 
In a March 2001 Parent-Teacher Association's 
(PTA) meeting at Hamden Middle School, 
members voted 68-16 in favor of moving 
students out of the school even if a new 
building wasn't built within three years. When 
Mayor Amento announced his decision to run 
for a second term in June 2001, he listed the 
relocation among his top priorities. 
"It was a political ploy," Hayes says 
of Amento's promise to relocate. While 
extremely popular with groups like the PTA 
and Connecticut Teacher's Union, plans for 
relocation angered other residents who felt they 
clid not have a voice in the decision. Controversy 
flared up again when Meadowbrook Golf 
Course, a 63 acre stretch of grass in the middle 
of Hamden, was decided upon as the future 
site of the middle school. In the Summer and 
Fall of 2002, two declicated activist groups 
butted heads over whether Hamden's largest 
expanses of green space should be developed. 
The two groups, The New Hamden Middle 
School at Meadowbrook Action Committee 
(M & M) and Save Open Space in Hamden, 
Inc. (SOS), waged a paper battle in front of 
Wal-Mart and Shaw's, handing out flyers to 
fellow residents. That month, letters to the 
eclitor published in The New Haven Register 
reflected disgrunded residents on both sides 
of the fence: some decried the resistance to 
overdue renovation of a school for their 
children. Others addressed the ~herent value 
of permanent, open, green space in Hamden. 
The collective eye of the Hamden public had 
shifted away from Newhall to the local golf 
course. 


A
T HAMDEN MIDDLE ScHOOL, as the 
day's first class was beginning, students 
signed in and ~eachers emerged from 
the faculty lounge with coffee mugs and 
Xerox copies. Principal Frank Pepe, an 
impressively tall man with large features and 
slicked-back hair, enters the main office to 
handle a shipment that had just arrived. Inside 
the box was a new computer, which he was 
to deliver to the home of a student battling 
cancer. Upstairs, Assistant Principal, Michael 
Novia juggled simultaneous calls on his office 
phone and his cell phone, while maintaining a 
conversation with students, and his secretary. 
In the course of a few minutes, he assigned 
Saturday detention to a boy who had thrown a 
tennis ball in class, interrogated another about 
touching a girl's purse in homeroom, and let a 
girl return to class after determining she had 
not purposefully knocked over her teacher's 
plant. He micromanages the day-to-day affairs 
of the high school as they show up constandy 
at his office door. 
Mr. Novia describes his faculty's general 
attitude toward the contamination as fcxlder 
for jokes rather than a serious concern. Since 
plans for a new school were announced two 
years ago, the initial outrage has faded. "It's a 
done deal, right? They said it was safe to keep 
the school here for as long as it takes to build a 
new one, which they say will open in September 
2006," he says, shrugging his shoulders. At the 
mention of the Newhall Coalition's efforts to 
have a voice in the DEP's remediation project 
currently underway in the neighborhood 
and ask him if there are any teachers that he 
knows of who are involved in these efforts. 
Mr. Novia looks puzzled. "Newhall Coalition? 
I don't know anything about that." 
In his ninth year at Hamden Middle 
School, Principal Frank Pepe is eager to move 
to the new location. "It's a great thing for 
Hamden," he says. 'We need a new school 
and I am amazed that there was so much 
opposition to the construction in the first 
place. Why wouldn't people want to support 
a new school?" He goes onto to say that 
the contamination is an extremely sensitive 
topic which he preferred not to bring up 
unless .absolutely necessary. "There were 
sicknesses--deaths even-among the faculty. 
Some teachers chose to retire because of this. 
Now that we know there is no threat, I don't 
like to talk about it." 


E
UZABETH HAYES'S attitude is the opposite 
of Pepe's: "I want everyone to be informed! 
Information is freedom! How can you 
fight someone if they have all the information 
and you are ignorant?" In the two-and-a-half 
years since she attended the environmental 
justice seminar at Yale, Hayes has helped the 
Coalition sell its message and won the support 
of the TAC, the Yale Forestry School, and 
the Boston law firm, McRoberts, Roberts, & 
Rainer. 
In Hartford at a public hearing with the 
DEP's commissioner, asked how involved the 
Newhall Coalition would be in future decisions 
about the remecliation process. Mike Harder, a 
representative of the DEP, responded that the 
15