Publication date: 1997
Volume: [Volume number not specified]
Issue number: [Issue number not specified]

**MASTHEAD:**
- **Publisher:** Dan Murphy
- **Editor-in-Chief:** GabrieL Snyder
- **Managing Editors:** Altc Bemis, Dana Goodyear
- **Business Manager:** justin Sacks
- **Production Manager:** Lainie Rutkow
- **Photography Editor:** Asa Piyaka
- **On-Line Editor:** john Bullock
- **Associate Publisher:** Catherine Olmder
- **Associate Editor:** jay Dixit
- **Research Directors:** Vlznessa Agard-fones, Dorie Bou.fides
- **Circulation and Subscription Manager:** Daphna Renan


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- The Magical Mall of Make Believe - Vanessa Agard-Jones
- Folk Explosion - Catherine Olender
- Slow Motion in the Court - Dan Murphy
- Faith, Hope, and Charity - Ben Smith
- Taunton Lake - James Prosek
- From Our Perspective
- Letter to the Editor
- Points of Departure
- Between the Vines: A Passage to India - Samita Sinha
- Endnote: Meat the Beetles - Alec Bemis


**Title: The Magical Mall of Make Believe**
**Author: Vanessa Agard-Jones**
**Page number(s): 8**

Fancy plans for the Chapel Square Mall threaten to displace the people 
who shop there in favor of attracting a more affluent clientele.


**Title: Folk Explosion**
**Author: Catherine Olender**
**Page number(s): 12**

The Nields play for larger audiences as they prepare to release their first 
album on a major label, but the band still remembers its roots at Yale.


**Title: Slow Motion in the Court**
**Author: Dan Murphy**
**Page number(s): 16**

The Connecticut Civil Liberties Union sues Governor john Rowland in an 
attempt to improve Connecticut's public defender system.


**Title: Faith, Hope, and Charity**
**Author: Ben Smith**
**Page number(s): 20**

The relocation of one AIDS care organization onto another's turf raises 
charges from the surrounding community of disrespect and racism.


**Title: Taunton Lake**
**Author: James Prosek**
**Page number(s): 26**

A Yale senior reminisces about his first fishing trip with his mentor joe 
Haines. An excerpt from Joe and Me, the author's second book.


**Title: From Our Perspective**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Letter to the Editor**
**Page number(s): 5**


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Page number(s): 6**


**Title: Between the Vines: A Passage to India**
**Author: Samita Sinha**
**Page number(s): 24**


**Title: Endnote: Meat the Beetles**
**Author: Alec Bemis**
**Page number(s): 31**


**Exceptional Dresses for Graduation Formals Recitals Performance Dinner, Dance, Parties ...**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
4 
Exceptional 
Dresses 
for 
Graduation 
Formals 
Recitals 
Performance 
Dinner, Dance, 
Parties ... 
Showcased in a unique 
luxurious shopping 
environment 
with cordial 
expert service. 
Seychelles 
1020 Chapel Street 
New Haven 
498-2626 
OPEN EVERYDAY!


**Degrees of Change**
**Author: The Editors**

"\VJhen the voices of the Yale establish-
W ment, like professors Gaddis Smith 
(PC '54, GRD '61) and H. Bradford Wester-
field (TD '47), and the spokespeople for the 
Graduate Employee Student Organization 
(GESO), find themselves in complete 
agreement about the future 
of the university, some-
thing strange is going on. 
But there they were last 
month on the front pages 
of student newspapers, letting 
the campus know their views 
on the Kutzinski Report, a pro-
posal generated by a faculty com-
mittee co change how the teaching 
assistant program runs at Yale. And to the 
surprise of many, their opinions came out 
sounding identical. 
"There's absolutely no justification for 
this sort of complete overhaul of the system," 
Antony Dugdale (GRD '99), a co-chair of 
GESO, told the Herald even before the 
report was officially released. 
"I'm very, very opposed to this proposal. 
It simply will do away with most section 
teaching and turn cla.sses into straight lecture 
courses," Professor Westerfield fumed to the 
Yale Daily News. 
The Kutzinski Report, written by a com-
mittee chaired by Vera Kutzinski, professor 
of English, makes the point that GESO and 
others have made for years: the teaching fel-
lowship program does not work in its pre-
sent form. The Kutzinski Report contains 
few concrete proposals, but instead offers 
three valuable principles for the complete 
restructuring of the teaching assistant pro-
gram: first, the financial aid that graduate 
students receive should be separated from 
teaching duties; second, no graduate student 
should teach more than four sections while 
they are at Yale; and third, university depart-
ments should not depend on graduate stu-
dents to fill their staffing needs. 
Under the current system, the fact is that 
departments t/Q depend on graduate students 
to meet their teaching staff needs. And grad-
uate students in need of financial assistance 
have little choice but to take on additional 
sections-usually far more chan the Kutzins-
ki Report recommends. To satisfy the objec-
tives of the report, the university's current 
system requires drastic change, or in the 
words of the report itself, "overhauling the 
entire Teacher Fellowship system 
in the Graduate School." 
Sure politics makes for 
strange 
bedfellows, 
but 
GESO may be shooting 
itself in the foot by 
cozying 
up 
with 
quintessential 
Old 
Blue figures. It is 
understandable that 
professors such as Smith 
and Westerfield are opposed co the 
plan. They are, after all, the guardians of the 
university's 
pedagogical 
traditions. 
But 
GESO's cry for moderation runs counter to 
its stated objective: to change the face of the 
Academy. Is GESO taking a posicion as a 
matter of political expediency instead of 
honest principle? Is GESO just trying to save 
its skin? 
They seem to suspect that the universi-
ty's recent willingness to restructure is a cal-
culated response to the upcoming National 
Labor Relations Board suit filed against Yale 
for its actions during GESO's grade suike 
last year. No doubt, the prospect of the fed-
eral government ordering Yale to permit its 
teaching assistants to unionize has made the 
administration much more willing to consid-
er change. But determined to win the argu-
ment that graduate students should be con-
sidered employees when they act as teaching 
assistants, GESO has ignored the fundmen-
tal question which is whether graduate stu-
dents should be employees in the first place. 
It has blinded them to the fact that the 
Kutzinski Report could provide an opportu-
nity to modify the current system for the 
benefit of all concerned. GESO, and anyone 
else interested in restructuring the university, 
will lose this chance for change if it contin-
ues to bluster about the need to moderate 
reform. 
-The Editors 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


**Letter to the Editor**
**Author: Andrew G Morris (BK '99)**
**Page number(s): 5**

To the Editor: 
I am writing to share with you my sincere 
disappointment regarding Gabriel Snyder's 
recent article (TN}, February 14, 1997, "The 
Two-Parry System"). 
I am the president of the Alpha Epsilon Pi 
fraternity at Yale; and I was offer ied by your 
inaccurate characterization of fra,ernities and 
their brothers. 
It is quite apparent from your uninspiring 
article that you are wholly unf.uniliar with fra-
ternities at Yale. Your lack of experience is 
betrayed by the stereotypical descriptions that 
you resorted to in describing fraternity broth-
ers at Yale. 
Alpha Epsilon Pi, like almost all Yale fra-
ternities, represents a strong brotherhood of 
men, the likes of which you are obviously 
quite unfamiliar. My brothers are my closest 
friends at Yale. We share common bonds; 
similar interests, goals, and desires. We have 
joined together in an effort to better our Yale 
experience, and we have succeeded. My frater-
nity, like most Yale Greek organizations, takes 
part in extensive philanthropy projects. We 
fundraise. We hold private social events. And 
yes, we occasionally hold a parry and open it 
to Yale undergrads. 
Parrying is not the central feature of our 
brotherhood. In the Fall 1996 ~emester, we 
have held a grand total of four parties open to 
the campus. That is not what AEPi is all 
about. 
Mr. Snyder, your article served only to 
perpetuate unwarranted stereotypes of frater-
nities. And each time such nonsense is pro-
pogated, it is invariably done by a person with 
a complete lack of understanding of brother-
hood. Such irresponsible journalism is ram-
pant; however, I have come to expect better 
from Tht Nw jqurnal 
- Andrew G Morris (BK '99) 
President, AEPi at Yale 
The New Journal wtlcomes kttm to tht tditor. 
~ mnvt tht right to tdit for kngth. Ali kttm 
must bt signtd. Pkase smd mail to P.O. &x 
203432, Nw Haven. CT 06520. or smd t-
mail to mj@panthton.yak.edu. 


**Rubber Soul**
**Author: Genny Taft**
**Page number(s): 6**

It 'is like an episode in a dream: six full-
bodied Emotions loll around inside a large 
plastic bubble, quivering at the advances of a 
violent Soul Surgeon. I hear the stifled words 
of the national anthem, indistinct and 
warped. But this is not a dream. The 
Emotions-Feara, Verita, Apathea, Sofro-
suno, Guiltea, and Free Association-are 
actors dad in rubber suits, singing under the 
direction of Hilary Koob-Sassen (DC '97). 
"Beautiful ... we're so ready!" he applauds and 
assures the voluntary captives. Only the over-
head lighting, which illuminates the peeling 
walls and creates shadows of the set and actors 
reminds me tha~ this is real, that I am in fact 
awake. 
Hilary, the acting coach and artistic direc-
tor for this unusual student film, began the 
screenplay during the summer afrer his fresh-
man year. Since then, the project has evolved 
into a full-length film, incorporating over 40 
students and alumni. Most of the ·set design 
and filming occurs at Hammond Hall, the 
sculpture building rooted between Grove 
Street cemetery and Science Hill. 
_ 
During the late hours of the night and 
E early morning, the cast and crew has free reign 
::::. 
~ in the virtually empty building. Actors and 
~ technicians wander about, each absorbed in 
! his or her own particular task until the filming 
~ begins. Silt covers the floor, a remainder of 
·e last night's scene, in which, I am told, the 
~ Genes frolicked and slithered in a vat of day. 
0 
~ Tonight the Emotions have taken over and 
}; they scurry around in their quarter-inch-
E thick, 
flesh-colored 
rubber 
~ suits. These suits give 
the actors maternal figures: large bosoms, 
stomachs, and rumps stuffed with poly-fil. 
The Soul Surgeon wears a metal collar and has 
accordion arms made of aluminum tubing. 
He shouts at the Emotions and warns that, 
like a gooey cheese croissant, Free Association 
will ooze all over them unless it is removed. 
So what is the film really about? When I 
ask various actors about the plot, the question 
is rebuffed by amused faces and quips of, "I 
think Hilary knows best ... " 
The plot is thick and involved, pivoting 
around a cryptic ideological message. Hilary 
lights up when I ask him if it is political: "Yes, 
we're breaking down some manifestos with 
this film!" He recommends multiple viewings. 
Part of the film's ideology is its collabora-
tive element. Hilary distributed the screenplay 
to participating actors, cameramen, musi-
cians, designers, and directors, and adapted it 
according to their feedback. The spirit of 
community encourages everyone to con-
tribute their ideas, critiques, manpower, and 
cigarettes. So when Hilary urges, "Let's rock 
the scene!" the saggy Emotions are invigorat-
ed. No one gripes about the time, disjunctive 
dialogue, or bizarre context. 
The movie is being filmed on a digital 
video can1era. This, along with the technical 
proficiency of the students filming, should 
make the film visually comprehensible and 
appealing. The film will debut on May 1 in 
Davenport College with another screening 
scheduled for May 2 in Davies Auditorium. 
The title is not yet fixed, but Hilary is think-
ing about deriving it from Waiting for Godot. 
"Like, Waiting for G/ob()-you know, globo, 
like the global economy." 
-Genny Taft 


**Dear Mr. President**

While most of my friends spent spring 
break sun-worshipping in Mexico, I had more 
pressing issues to attend to. The Clinton 
Administration tapped me to perform the 
sensitive work of a communications liaison 
between the White House and the American 
people. Of course the weather was a lot dreari-
er in Washington, DC, than in Mexico. But 
as it turned out, the northeastern climate 
didn't matter much since I couldn't really tell 
what the weather was like from my basement 
cubicle in the Office of Presidential Letters. 
And anyway, as I reminded myself on occa-
sion, I was there for the honor of serving my 
country, not to get a tan. 
Unfortunately, the privilege of working in 
the Office of Presidential Letters did not 
include the privilege of being paid, but I had 
known that when I applied. I was looking 
more for the experience than for the money. 
And besides, what better way is there to reme-
dy a case of mid-semester academic burnout 
than to work long hours in a high security 
environment? 
As it turned out, I found that few people 
outside the confines of the Yale campus are 
familiar with the idea of a working spring 
vacation. I could tell from the Presidential 
Letters staff's disbelieving looks that they had 
never raced out of their dorm rooms in order 
to beat a 5 p.m. Association of Yale Alumni 
externship application deadline. But that 
didn't prevent them from giving me work to 
do. 
Most of my time at the White House was 
spent in strategic paper flow management. I 
was entrusted with the task of conveying the 
President's letters to the typing office, or "sup-
port" as they are known to us insiders. And, 
when the letters were typed, it was up to me 
to make sure that they got back to the editors 
in their newly typed form. When I first got to 
the White House, I thought that would be the 
extent of my work. But no-my job had only 
just begun. When the editors had ensured 
that each letter was free of typos and mis-
prints, I brought the newly edited letters back 
to support to be typed on the President's per-



**Title: My White House Internship**
**Author: Sara Harkavy**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
sonal stationery. When I had made sure that 
the corrections had been entered, I once again 
brought the letters back to the editors for 
review. Despite losing the chance to play 
beach volleyball, I managed to keep in shape 
running up and down the hallways of the Old 
Executive Office Building. 

During my stay at the OEOB, I was also 
called to do some very important work along-
side the members of the President's cabinet. 
While walking down the hall, I passed Vice 
President Gore on his way to a staff meeting. I 
smiled at him and he nodded back. Consider-· 
ing the Vice President's noted reticence, it was 
obvious how much he was trying to say with 
just that one movement of his neck. Maybe 
he had heard of my reputation as a valued 
member of the Presidential Letter Writing 
Team. 

My work with the presidential cabinet 
continued about two hours later, when I was 
called into a meeting with Donna Shalala, 
Secretary of Health and Human Services. 
Though all the other interns were there as 
well, and Secretary Shalala didn't acknowledge 
my raised hand during the question-and-
answer time, I knew how much my presence 
meant to her. 

But my work at the White House was not 
limited to high-profile decision making. I also 
had to remain (:ool under the pressure of sud-
den changes in the presidential schedule. The 
day after the President injured his knee, I sat 
in on a press briefing where Press Secretary 
Mike McCurry deflected questions about the 
President's injury. As the network news cam-
eramen slowly awakened from their sleep in 
the back of the room, McCurry duked it out 
with the reporters who, contrary to the 
impression given to CNN viewers, were prac-
tically on top of McCurry in the tiny press 
room. To get an idea of its acrual dimensions, 
a Yale student must look no further than her 
own dorm room. 

The reality is that in all likelihood, the 
press conference could have gone on without 
me. And, to be truthful, I wasn't exactly 
instrumental in the Clinton machine. But the 
externship was a political aspirant's dream: I 
had the chance to see top officials up close 
and to get a glimpse of how the Wh.ite House 
runs. T hough my spring break didn't leave me 
golden-brown from the sun, I'm glad I got a 
chance to work there. Maybe some day I'll be 
back to live there, too. 
-Sara Harkavy


**Title: A Stitch Through Time**
**Author: Daphna Rman**

In a room tucked away in the basement of 
Morse College, Mindy Goodfellow lectures 
on decreasing. Intense concentration meets 
meditative calm. The subject is not eco-
nomics and the students do not appear 
stressed or bored: Morsels are 
learning how to knit. 

Goodfellow, a veteran 
knitter, walks between 15 
casually situated students. 
Also traversing the room, 
Marcia Chambers, the 
Mistress of Morse Col-
lege, utters words of gen-
tle encouragement. 

Ten years ago, after 
putting down her pen 
as a full-time journal-
ist, with more time 
on her hands as a freelancer, Chambers picked 
up her needles and yarn and resumed knit-
ting. Concerned that knitting is an endan-
gered art form, Chambers recruited Goodfel-
low to revive the art among Morsels. 

Goodfellow notes that until recently, 
many women resisted needles and yarn in a 
conscious effort to escape archaic female 
stereotypes. At a time when women were try-
ing to liberate themselves from the confines of 
the home, women associated knitting with 
domesticity. 

Goodfellow's mother, sitting in on the 
class, agrees. "Knitting seems to come and go 
like waves over the years." But the class, which 
was received with plenty of enthusiasm, 
reveals that the popularity of knitting is now 
at high tide. 

Goodfellow learned to knit from her 
mother at age seven. She later took over her 
mother's knitting store, The Yankee Knitter, 
which shut down three years ago due to flag-
ging sales. When the store first opened, times 
were different. During World War II knitting 
at home was a family custom. In 1970, Good-
fellow's mother decided to combine her 
hobby with a search for independence from 
the home. While the knitting business has 
exhausted Goodfellow's mother, Goodfellow 
still speaks of knitting with an artist's passion. 
"Even if it's just a pair of mittens, I get excited." 

Such passion is infectious for students like 
Karen Abrecht (MC '00). She confesses that 
she has even taken her knitting into lec-
ture. "I only did it once," she 
assures, "but I got lots of funny 
looks." Here lies the greatest 
manifestation of knitting's evo-
lution: exchanging thoughts 
about Kant or modern China 
between stitches has replaced 
the exchange 
of recipes. 

Moreover, these women are 
joined in their new hobby 
by men. 

"In my generation you 
didn't really see men knit-
ters," 

Chambers 
recalls. 

"Men make very good knit-
ters if they get over the mas-
culinity problem." Scott Javor (MC '99) grins 
broadly as he shows off his first "cast on," the 
primary stage in the knitting process. Just a 
generation ago, men shyed away from the 
matronly image of knitting. Now they, too, 
find it relaxing and fun. 

Abrecht calls knitting "pleasantly mind-
numbing." She appreciates the way knitting 
allows her thoughts to wander. Chambers 
agrees. "It's like taking a nice walk." While 
finding the proper weather and time for a 
walk may be difficult, knitting provides a 
calming and productive alternative. 

Knitting only becomes relaxing, however, 
when the students realize that it is okay not to 
be perfect, Chambers explains. She assures a 
distressed woman that ripping out stitches 
builds character. Knitting, however, no longer 
defines one's character. That, Goodfellow 
comments, just might be why both women 
and men are beginning to take up the needle. 
"We enjoy doing it because we don't have to," 
Goodfellow says. 
- Daphna Rman


**Title: The Magical Mall of Make Believe**
**Author: Vanessa Agard-Jones**
**Page number(s): 8, 9**

Once upon a time there was a mall that sat near a square with a chapel 
on it, sroeral chapels in fact. The rqyal bureaucrats in a nearby office bui~ 
ing decided to call it the Chapel Square MalL For some time it remained 
there, existing in 4 relativeLy unremarkable manner, but years later instabil-
ity reared its ugly head. The businesses in the mall alternately flourished and 
withered. Retailers came in and retailers pulled out. Corporations owned 
the mall and corporations disowned the mall There were periods of famine 
and there were periods of abundance. These fluctuations damaged the pub-
lic image of the rqyal bureaucrats and their court. 

Across the lawn, behind the crawling ivy, there stood an ivory tower 
populated by wise men and women who were also disturbed by the lack of 
consistent prosperity at the mall The institution, Yale University, came to 
lead the battle to rroitalize the community which surrounded it. Their 
strate~they called it "urban develapment "-called for the reconstruction 
of this retail space. There were arguments and issues, supporters and dis-
senters, winners and lasers, an upperclass and an underclass. And this is 
how the struggle unfolded. .. 

N
ew Haven faces the particular challenge of being at once a 
depressed city and a university town. The city is forced to 
reconcile the conflicting needs of its permanent residents 
with those of the students who reside in the city only for 
the school year. The town-gown tension intrinsic to the Yale experience 
is one result of the struggle for space and resources in which these two 
groups engage. One of the current battlefields of this struggle is the 
Chapel Square Mall. 

The retailers currently established in Chapel Square Mall-stores 
like Hair Braiding Heaven, Nails Plus, Cross Flava Records, Chapel 
Discount, and a host of other small businesses catering to the urban 
shopper-reflect the needs of the permanent residents, as opposed to 
the stores of Upper Chapel whose produCts and prices are tailored to 
the college community's checkbooks. This may soon change. 

A sign in a window display at Chapel Square Mall reads: 
BUILDING A UVABLE NEW HAVEN 
OMNI NEW HAVEN HOTEL AT YALE 
OPENING FALL 1997 

Mayor John DeStefano wants to attract fashionable retail stores to 
the Chapel Square Mall as part of his three-pronged development plan: 
corporate activity in Nmth Square, retail activity at Long Wharf, and 
arts and entertainment downtown. According to his plan, instead of 
everyday clothing stores and nail salons, the mall beneath the hotel 
would house fashionable stores selling vases and fine jewelry, picture 
frames and designer clothing. When hotel patrons return from cultural 
excursions in the Elm City, DeStefano hopes they will stroll through 
the mall's charming boutiques en route to the hotel lobby Boors above. 

Yale's administrators have expressed interest in seeing retail stores 
around the Green, but their vision of a retail future doesn't match the 
reality of the streets. As the city's most profitable tourist attraction and 
one of New Haven's largest employers, Yale plays a central role in the 
decision-making process of the Chamber of Commerce. 

The planning of a city and its retail space is driven by politics: racial 
politics, class politics, and social politics. Developers of the Omni Hotel 
sought to move the bus stops away from New Haven Green in order to 
reduce the number of bus riders waiting by the mall. Long Wharf, 
rather than downtown, has been earmarked for less specialized retail 
because of its highway access. The city wants to attract the spending 
base of the suburbs that it feels no longer comes downtown. Planners 
hope to snag potential shoppers whizzing down I-95 with the bait of 
brand-name stores like Marshall's and Filene's Basement. The artsy 
stores, like the ones currently on Upper Chapel, would carer to Omni 
and Schubert patrons (the more sophisticated suburbanites) as well as 
the Yale community. 

Community leaders question where the changes at the Chapel 
Square Mall leave economically disadvantaged New Haven residents. 
Across town, the Broadway scrip is also undergoing a period of drastic 
change in a shift towards national corporate retailers. Expectant Yalies 
await the completion of a Brueggers' Bagels eatery and the Starbucks-
run cafe within th~ new Barnes and Noble bookstore. The larger ques-
tion then becomes, should New Haven's downtown retail space belong 
to Yalies and day-tripping suburbanites or to its year-round residents? 

ew Haven's story is not a fairy tale. The reality is that 18.2 per-
cent of New Haven's families live below the poverty line, 45.4 
percent of New Haven's children live in single-parent house-
holds, and the median household income in 1990 was $25,811-less 
than a single year's tuition at Yale. The city is still ranked among the 
country's poorest, yet the urban development in the works means that 
many New Haven residents will not be able to afford to shop in their 
new-and-improved downtown. In shon, Yale's influence may simply be 
pushing New Haven and its residents further away from its ivory tower. 

Susan Godshall, Yale's representative to the Executive Committee 
of the Greater New Haven Chamber of Commerce and second-in-
command to University Secretary Linda Lorimer, doesn't think that the 
downtown development poses a problem. "The mall, currently, as a 
collection of stores, is haphazard," Godshall says. Haphazard, many 
would agree, but not unlike any other mall. It is distinct only because it 
operates on a different economic scale-the scores cater to those with 
smaller pocketbooks, those unable to afford typical mall fare. 

In essence, every mall is like an exploded Wal-Mart: a place where a 
family can fulfill all of its shopping needs, no matter how obscure. 
Chapel Square Mall has fast-food eateries, clothing and shoe scores, 
jewelers, a hair salon, a pharmacy, a music store, and a produce shop. 
Perhaps because Radio Shack isn't the Sharper Image and Rite Aid isn't 
Clinique, the retail composition of Chapel Square is labeled "haphaz-
ard." Godshall's voice hardens and assumes an exasperated tone as she 
discusses what she considers the non-issue of the Chapel Square Mall. 
''I'm not sure that New Haven residents have an entitlement to any par-
ticular turf." 

But some community leaders do believe residents of a city deserve a 
say in what goes on in their community. "The stores that will replace 
what's in the mall now certainly won't be catering to the minority com- , 
munity of New Haven," says Joyce Poole, president of New Haven's 2 
African-American Women's Agenda and a former city alderman. She ~ 
voices the community's concerns over the removal of the more afford- ~ 
able retailers that currently inhabit the mall. "New Haven is quicldy ~ 
becoming a city divided along economic lines," Poole says. Her obser- ~­
vation points to the heart of the issue. There is a community of color ~ 
that lives in New Haven. It is largely poor and does not feel connected ~ 
to or noticed by its elecred leaders or the instirutions that hold the reins ~ 
of money and power in the city. Instead of representing their con- ~ 
stiruents within New Haven, some feel New Haven's leaders are cater- r:: 3 
ing to a wealthier white suburban community outside the city. 



**Chapel Square Mall: A Tale of Two Worlds**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Lower Chapel shopping district currently marks a distinct town-gown division. 
The issue of the Omni Hotel itself is more 
complex. "The hotel will be beneficial only 
because there are jobs attached to it and then 
only if New Haven residents are hired to fill 
those jobs, not people from the outside," 
Poole remarks. "Residents must be given more 
than menial work." The construction of the 
Omni presents a conundrum for New Haven 
community leaders. On one hand, it offers 
the promise of jobs that are desperately needed. But even if residents do get work, what 
good will it do them if they have no place to 
buy clothes?


The main walkway of the Chapel 
Square Mall's first floor is flanked on 
one side by Radio Shack, the Athlete's 
Foot, and Burger King, and on the other by 
Rite Aid and an empty storefront. In the center of the walkway is a huge staircase, and 
close to that, a fountain where a number of 
black and Latino teenagers are sitting, eating, 
and talking loudly together. Security guards 
prowl from floor to floor, attempting to look 
severe in their faux police uniforms. Despite 
the trappings of authority, the guards are 
taunted by the loitering teenagers and their 
jabs clearly become challenges to the guards' 
control. Young women push strollers and drag 
waddling toddlers from store to store. 
On a display in Sam's Dollar Mart is the 
slogan, "Beautiful doesn't have to be expensive." If mall developers have their way, 
Chapel Square Mall will soon be both. There 
are almost 20 people in Sam's this morning, 
mostly women with small children, picking 
up everything from dish towels to greeting 
cards to sunglasses, most priced at $1 or less. 
There is one Yale student who tries not to be 
noticed. She creeps unobtrusively to the back 
of the store to price imitation Tupperware, as 
if she doesn't want anyone to catch her shopping in a 99¢ store.


Across the main walkway from Sam's is 
Pat Santino's shop, VideoTek. At 10 a.m., the 
store is empty. T-shirts hang on the walls with 
airbrushed pictures of 2Pac and Bob Marley 
emblazoned across them. On a shelf above the 
counter sit samples of the plaques that Santino 
makes for funerals and weddings. These 
plaques, complete with photo and poem, 
mourn those who have died and celebrate 
marriages. Santino, dressed casually in denim 
and cotton, talks on the phone, fiddles with a 
camera, and rearranges a shelf all at once. As a 
young black family enters Santino's store, his 
attention shifts to them. Santino leans across 
the counter and says thoughtfully, "We, the 
tenants here, don't know anything about 
what's going on, but I feel like there has to be 
a comfortable medium. This mall needs to be 
both safe and affordable." He implies that 
although the mall now provides an inexpensive 
shopping option for local residents, it has 
a crime problem that cannot be overlooked. 
The high school kids who hang out in the 
mall during the day, instead of attending 
school, leave retailers feeling anxious and 
shoppers feeling threatened.


In Just For You, a clothing and electronics 
store at the front of the mall, a woman comes 
in with two little boys to look at shoes. She 
picks up a pair of bright orange patent leather 
mules, turns to manager Richard Estrada, 
who is standing behind the counter, and asks, 
"D'you got these in a ten?" Estrada sends 
another woman to the back of the store to 
search for the size as the customer waits and 
her children play among the racks of clothing, 
chasing each other and pretending to shoot 
the mannequins. Estrada describes the mall 
simply: "It's all about safety. Yale students are 
afraid to come down here to do their shopping." Yalies are unlikely to shop at the mall 
except to dress up for Halloween and theme 
parties. Since the departure of the stores that 
attracted Yalies to the Chapel Square Mall, 
like B. Dalton, the Pack Plaza Hotel, and 
Macy's department store, Yalies rarely stray to 
Lower Chapel to fulfill their shopping needs. 
An increase in crime may very well be the key 
issue behind the dramatic shift in clientele 
that the mall has experienced in the past few 
years. Inner-city residents currently make up 
65 percent of the mall's shoppers. 
Community activists, undoubtedly aware 
of the safety problem, nevertheless feel that it's 
important to serve New Haven's permanent 
residents. The merchants, whose obvious 
interests should make them favor keeping the 
mall in its current state, believe that their 
business opportunities are being limited, in 
part, by the very customers they attract. 
In the end, the players in the Chapel 
Square drama go on telling themselves fairy 
tales. The Yale administration tells itself that 
there is no issue. The city of New Haven tells 
itself that urban development is being done in 
the name of positive economic change. Community activists tell themselves that the mall is 
ideal as it is. The retailers are perhaps the only 
ones telling themselves the truth.


An hour later, the cashier at Sam's Dollar 
Mart is still busily ringing up purchases while in 
Just For You two teenage girls rummage through 
racks of dresses. One holds up a striped dress, the 
other a tiger print. Pat Santino is again leaning 
across the counter, gesturing towards the T-shirts 
and quoting prices to one of his customers. At 
the front doors of the mall, steps away from 
Radio Shack, a destitute man begs for loose 
change so that he'll be able to afford a meal in 
the food court. A block away from Chapel 
Square, well-dressed Yalies mill about in Ann 
Taylor trying on silk shirts and business suits. 
On the next corner hungry students indulge 
in $6 bean and cheese burritos at Claire's. 
Leaving Chapel Square Mall and returning 
to Yale is like moving from one world to 
another. Karl Kani is replaced by Karan couture 
and the faces change dramatically from 
black to white in a matter of blocks. While a 
homeless New Haven resident wonders if he 
will be able to afford a meal at Burger King, 
urban developers insist that it is in the entire 
community's best interest for the mall's retailers 
to sell more expensive goods. 
... And the battle waged on. In the end there 
stood no victors--only questions and very few 
answers. All of the royal members of the court 
were talking, as were the dissatisfied citizens, but 
neither side was listening to the other. The 
Chapel Square Mall battlefield was war-torn 
and ravaged. The valiant retailers who hung on 
until the finish could only wait under the pall of 
death, expecting the dragon's fiery breath to separate them from their stores at any moment. They 
knew that one day soon this death sentence would 
be served, and perhaps someone, somewhere, was 
living happily ever after. The End.


**Folk Explosion**
**Author: Catherine Olender**
**Page number(s): 12**

While spending a semester abroad in Nepal, Katryna 
Nields's foreign language teacher asked her what she 
wanted to do for a living. She asked him the word for 
"lawyer." Her teacher protested, "That doesn't make 
any sense." Katryna had spent the last few months playing and listening 
to Nepalese music. "You're going to be a musician," he said. 
"Yeah, you're right," Katryna thought to herself, and quickly wrote 
her older sister Nerissa a letter about her change of heart: after her graduation from Trinity College she would take her sister up on the idea of 
forming a band. This was one of the first steps the Nields took toward 
becoming a three-Nields, three-Dave, five-person folk rock band. 
Nerissa Nields (SM '89) sits in the WWUH-FM radio station at 
the University of Hartford. Surrounded by shelves full of records, Nerissa crosses her legs carefully, adjusting her big, blue walking cast. 
Although the foot she broke two and a half weeks ago prevents her 
from helping the rest of the band as they set up for their concert, Nerissa manages the clunky cast easily, as if every rock star wore a navy blue 
orthopedic shoe with her snakeskin jacket and zippered lycra pants. 
"When you're at Yale, freshman year is when you get your bearings and 
you sort of feel like nothing quite belongs to you. I was in Silliman, you 
know, we were the youngest kids in the college and nothing was really 
ours. So by sophomore year we were beginning to get a sense we could 
actually do something that could make a difference." 
As a sophomore at Yale, Nerissa began a folk group called Tangled 
Up in Blue (T.U.I.B.) to sing the Bob Dylan and Peter, Paul, and Mary 
songs her family had enjoyed around the dinner table. "The guitar was 
a constant sixth member of the family," Abigail Nields (DC '96)-who 
continued the T.U.I.B. tradition-reminisces about her family's folky 
tendencies. T.U.I.B. started out as an informal group of Nerissa's 
friends, meeting every so often to hang out and play music for fun. 
"I brought my guitar and we sat around and sort of made up 
arrangements," Nerissa says. "I was studying music so I had learned 
how to write music notation. There was always, from the very beginning, a great spirit-it was fun and loose, but at the same time everybody was musical enough to care about sounding good." It didn't take 
T.U.I.B. long to get its first gig. 
"Somebody in Branford College asked us to come and do a show. 
She'd started a little coffeehouse called Fred's." They were the only 
singing group on campus to use instruments: guitar, mandolin, sitar, 
and tin whistles. T.U.I.B. showed the singing group scene that good 
music doesn't have to be performed a cappella. Nor does it need to be 
performed in tuxedos and gowns; flannel and India cotton do just as 
well. "There was this great feeling of 'We're doing this ourselves'," Ner-
issa remembers, "'We're doing something new and different. It's all 
ours. ..." 
By Nerissa's senior year, the folk group had firmly established itself 
on campus. More people came out for T.U.I.B. auditions than for 
many of Yale's other singing groups. Nerissa's experience with T.U.I.B. 
encouraged her as a singer/songwriter. 
"I started writing seriously at the end of my sophomore year, but I 
was so shy about my songs that it took until March of my junior year 
when we were on tour in Washington, DC, for me to even play them 
for any of the people in the group. I remember so dearly playing one of 
my first songs and the warmth of the response that they gave me told 
me that I should really be doing this." 


The first word Katryna Nields uses to describe her older sister is 
"strong." "Nerissa's really the person that's in the center, making 
sure that everything's okay all the time. She's a trooper." 
The story of Nerissa's fractured foot, Katryna says, illustrates her sister's fighting spirit. Before The Nields' February 13 show in Charleston, 
South Carolina the band was attempting to maneuver around a monitor to get to the dark stage when Nerissa fell three and a half feet off the 
edge, injuring her foot. Someone offered her a chair for the performance, but she stood on one foot through the entire show. Only after 
the band had finished for the night did she admit that the bone was 
probably broken and ask to go to the hospital. 
"It must have hurt like hell," Katryna says. "But that's why I call her 
strong." Although behind the scenes she is a leader, when Nerissa performs she stands off to one side. 
Center stage at the University of Hartford, Katryna swings her 
long, brown hair over her shoulders. She wears a black and white psychedelic print shirt. "This is a nice little love rune," she announces. The 
band opens into "Fountain of Youth," a bass-driven tune about a love 
affair gone sour. Katryna picks up a fish-shaped wooden instrument, a 
guiro-which the album credits calls a "Scratchy Fishie"-and scrapes 
a stick up and down its corrugated stomach keeping time as she dances 
around the stage. To her right, David Nields plays the guitar. When he 
married Nerissa, he changed his name from David Jones because, as he 
says, in the music industry you don't want to be confused with a Monkee. 
David was pursuing his master's degree in theater studies when a 
mutual friend introduced him to Nerissa. The summer after she graduated from Yale, David and Katryna both accompanied Nerissa on 
T.U.I.B.'s cross-country tour from New Haven to California and back. 
In Elkins, West Virginia, on one of the tour's final stops, Nerissa and



**The Nields: A Family Affair**
**Author: Catherine Olmsted**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
David decided to get married. 

While waiting to see whether Katryna would join the band, Nerissa taught English at The Madeira School in Maryland. After Kauyna graduated, the three relocated to Williamstown, Massachusetts, where David worked at a summer theater festival to support them. The sisters wrote music and worked the Williamstown restaurant scene, hoping for a break. 
"Katryna and I literally walked up and down Spring Street and knocked on the doors of any restaurant and said, 'Do you want to have live music? We'll play for free.' Most places said no." 

Little by little, the breaks came. The band began playing regularly as a trio at coffeehouses and open-mike nights. Although they found themselves allied with the local folk music groups, there was something about The Nields' music that separated them from the pack. "We were always a lot more energetic than other people on the circuit." David Nields says, "Even if we had stayed a trio I don't think we would have stayed in the folk scene." 

In 1994, two Daves-not-Nields transformed the band from a folk trio into a rock quintet. Dave Chalfant came on board to produce and play bass on the band's album Bob on the Ceiling. Dave Hower joined APRIL 18, 1997 the group at the same time to play percussion on five tracks. "Dave Hower and I bring sort of the noisy element to the band," Dave Chal-fant says. The two Daves-not-Nields' noisier influences include Pancera, Smashing Pumpkins, and Frank Zappa. 

The Nields have "gone electric" and moved from church halls and open-mike nights to national venues in the last six years, but the group still attracts audience members from ages five to 50. "The audience hasn't changed that much," Nerissa says, "It's just grown." 

At the University of Hartford show, fifty-something folkies sit side- by-side with Generation Xers and gum-chewing, Nields' T-shirt-wearing teens. Kevin Sullivan, a counselor and learning specialist at the University of Connecticut, watches the concert with his three daughters who are ages 13, 22, and 24. He has been following The Nields' career for about five years, since he heard them sing at a New Year's Eve show in Hartford. His daughters introduced him to their music, Sullivan says, but he has his own reasons for continuing to follow them. The Nields make him think of The Beagles. Like the legendary foursome, Sullivan says, "There's a simple perfection between their music and their words." 

This "simple perfection," a delicate balance between subject matter and presentation, is most apparent was The Nields perform. While


**Title: Slow Motion in the Court**
**Author: Dan Murphy**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
r6 
Slow Motion 
in the Court 
Dan Murphy 
S 
tanding outside of Courtroom 4 of the New Haven Courthouse 
on Elm Street, David Kaplan, a public defender for the last 18 
years, patiently answers questions from some of his clients while 
struggling to hold a two-foot-high stack of bulging folders. Pri-
vate lawyers zip by, holding one or two files. Along with one other pub-
lic defender, one investigator, and one secretary, Kaplan handles all the 
public defender cases for Geographic Area 8 (GA 8), which includes 
East Haven and its environs. Kaplan wl_ll represent approximately 100 
clients thiS month; the American Bar Association prescribes 300 as the 
maximum that defense attorneys should in a year. Projecting from fig-
ures for past months, Kaplan will handle over 1,100 cases between Sep-
tember 1996 and September 1997. 

Regardless of their caseloads, GA public defenders like Kaplan do a 
remarkably good job. According to the Chief Public Defenders Office, 
of the 68,000 cases handled by public defenders in the GA courts last 
year, more than one-third were thrown out of court, while fewer than 
24 percent resulted in incarceration. While there are no comparative 
statistics for private lawyers, such a low incarceration rate is impressive 
by any measure. 

But because of public defenders' heavy caseloads and slim resources, 
the Connecticut Civil Liberties Union (CCLU) feels that Kaplan's 
clients, and all public defender clients in Connecticut, aren't receiving 
the adequate representation guaranteed to them by the Constitution 
and by Connecticut law. State law stipulates thaf any individual 
charged with a crime punishable with incarceration and whose weekly 
income falls below prescribed Limits (roughly $200 a week for a single 
person) is eligible for a public defender. The CCLU has sued Governor 
John Rowland and the Public Defender Services Commission on behalf 
of"all indigent persons who are or will be represented by public defend-
ers." The lawsuit, /?jvera et ai. v. Rowland et ai., calls for an increase in 
funding and a reduction of caseloads for public defenders. 

The CCLU's complaint puts public defenders like Kaplan in an 
awkward position, forcing them to keep one foot on either side of the 
lawsuit's legal divide. While their sympathies may Lie largely with the 
plaintiffs who are their clients, public defenders must answer to their 
bosses who are the defendants in the suit-the Public Defenders Ser-
vice Commission and Governor Rowland. And, in order to get the 
increased funding and reduced caseloads that the CCLU demands, the 
public defenders must prove they're not doing their jobs. The CCLU is 
trying to save the public defender srstem by destroying it, emphasizing 
its shortcomings and pointing out where it has failed, while ignoring its 
record of success. 

Gerard Smyth, Connecticut's chief public defender, was one of 
THE NEw JouRNAL 


--- Page 17 ---

The Connecticut Civil Liberties Union sues Governor John Rowland 
in an attempt to improve Connecticut's public defense system. 

~ 

those forced to choose between his clients and his bosses. In the Con-
necticut Law Tribune, Smyth criticized the CCLU's suit as misleading. 
His opposition to the suit is somewhat ironic because he shares with the 
plaintiffs in the case the ultimate goal of improving public defense. But 
Smyth's commitment to improvement is secondary to his conviction 
that public defenders already provide effective representation. He wrote 
in his article, "While [the public defender system's] most significant 
accomplishments can be detailed and celebrated, its greatest success lies 
in the small victories that are attained on behalf of clients on a daily 
basis by attorneys, investigators, social workers and support staff across 
the state who have dedicated their careers to this effort." 

K
aplan's small daily victories occur inside of Courtroom 4 where 
dark wood paneling, a high ceiling, and a large marble wall 
clock hearken back to a time when justice was established-
imposing and blind. The entire building with its tall Corinthian 
columns and surrounding statues of sage Roman lawgivers faces New 
Haven Green. At the center of the ciry, the legal system used to be one 
of the pillars of sociery. 

Nowadays, the ceiling of Courtroom 4 is green with circular marks 
due to water damage. No one has bothered to plaster or paint over the 
holes that have been drilled to drain the water. Next to the gallery 
where spectators sit, the paneling has been carved up by rudimentary 
graffiti, exec.uted hastily with pens and keys, despite the vigilant glares 
of armed representatives from the New Haven Sheriff's Office. The 
marble clock face mounted high on the wall has no hands on it. Maybe 
this is intended to send the message that justice is timeless. Maybe it 
indicates that the court is behind the times. Maybe it just reveals that 
nobody has bothered to fix it. 

Courtroom 4 reconvenes for the afternoon after those in "lock-up" 
downstairs have been brought up in shackles and placed inside a large 
cage next to the expressionless marble clock. Lock-up holds people 
transported from local prisons as well as last night's arrestees awaiting 
arraignment. The gallery fills up both with people who have business 
with the court and with spectators, mostly the friends and family of 
those in lock-up. The men in the cage try to catch glimpses of their 
loved ones by sranding on tiptoe and peering over a piece of plywood 
which has been put on one side of the cage to prevent visual contact 
with the spectators in the gallery. The sheriff's deputy doesn't see~ to 
mind that throughout the whole session three men in the cage Stram to 
see over the board, knuckles turning white as they pull themselves up 
against the cage and silently mouth words in English or Spanish to their 
family and friends. The plywood obscures each man's lower lip so that 
APRIL 18, 1997 
the meaning of his words is lost. 

Kaplan calls one of his clients over to the corner of the cage, and 
with the aid of a Spanish translator, discusses the man's case. When the 
case is called, the sheriff's deputy unlocks the cage so he can approach 
the bench with the shuffiing half steps his shackles allow. Kaplan walks 
up to join him before the judge and has the man sign forms verifying 
that he is indigent, that he wants Kaplan to represent him as his public 
defender, and that he'll pay the $25 fee Connecticut law requires for 
public defender representation. 

The prosecutor informs the judge of the specifics of the case. 
Kaplan's client was charged with drug possession after the police arrest-
ed him and two others who were driving in a car containing more than 
200 packets of marijuana. Evidence in the car indicated that the drugs 
belonged to the other two men. Afrer a brief discussion of the case by 
Kaplan, the judge, and the prosecutor, the man enters a guilty plea to a 
lesser count than the one he was initially charged with. Before accepting 
the plea, the judge, through the translator, asks the man two questions: 
"Have you had enough time to talk to your lawyer about your plea?" 
and "Are you satisfied with your lawyer's representation of you?" The 
man nods to both questions and then shuffies alongside the deputy 
back downstairs to lock-up. 

The CCLU claims that cases like these, which only occupy about 
five minutes of the court's time, represent much of what is wrong with 
the public defender system. Kaplan's high caseload kept him from visit-
ing this client while he was in prison. The environment of the court-
house has no space for Kaplan and his client to talk privately. No expert 
witnesses or investigative reports were used to analyze the evidence. 
And the defendant pleaded guilry without a mention by anyone in the 
17 


--- Page 18 ---

courtroom of taking the case to trial. 

The CCLU blames these shortcomings 
on the state's stingy budgeting. They point 
out that in 1994, Connecticut spent only 
$156 per public defense case, ranking the 
state 45th in the nation. In a letter to the Con~ 
necticut Law Tribune, CCLU lawyers wrote, 
"Having little, if any, confidence in their legal 
· representatives and a limited understanding of 
the. proceedings, many clients plead guilty, 
even if they are innocent or have valid defens~ 
es. " 

On some counts, the CCLU assessment is 
undoubtedly correct. Like the entire court~ 
house, the public defender facilities desperate~ 
ly need the improvements that increased 
funding could bring. In Kaplan's office lead 
paint peels from the window frames and 
pigeon feces, caked on the skylight, block out 
the sun. Kaplan acknowledges that he would 
like to meet with his clients more than he cur~ 
rencly can. "Because our office is so small, we 
have to work efficiently," he says, ')\nd that's 
meant sacrificing a sweet bedside manner 
with our clients in order to be lawyers." 

But Kaplan doesn't agree with the 
CCLU's position that the profusion of plea 
bargaining means that justice isn't being 
served. "Trials aren't going forward any~ 
where," he says: "If creative, hon~t lawyers of 
integrity can reach a just result without a: trial, 
then I think that's a good thing. In real life, as 
opposed to TY, trials tax a lot of resources and 
trials also tend to reach unpredictable results. 
From a practical point of view, a trial would 
seriously hurt this office by tying up an attor~ 
ney and our one investigator for a few weeks." 

For these reasons, among the thousands of 
cases Kaplan's office has handled in the past 
six years, only one has gone to trial. 

r8 
In order to dramatize their claims, the 
CCLU has employed anecdotal evidence both 
in the complaint and, subsequently, in the 
press. One of their motions cites the case of a 
defendant who pled guilty because his public 
defender didn't have the time or resources to 
uncover the fact that he had been classified as 
mentally retarded. In their letter to the Con~ 
necticut Law Tribune, CCLU attorneys 
referred to three public defender clients and 
the wrongs that they'd suffered because of the 
shortcomings of their council. In two of the 
cases mentioned, the public defenders were 
depicted as bad attorneys who didn't care 
about the particulars of their clients' cases and 
forced them into guilty pleas and harsh sen~ 
tences in the interest of expediency. 

While the CCLU makes it clear that these 
are only the most extreme cases, their 
methodology reveals the paradox that all pub~ 
lie defenders must negotiate. Before the suit 
was filed, Smyth, the chief public defender, 
had perennially lobbied the state for increased 
funding, repeatedly pointing to the high case~ 
loads of the public defenders working under 
him. Smyth doesn't deny that more funding 
.would help, but he also claims that public 
defense across the state is more than adequate. 
"Our public defenders are specialists in crimi~ 
nallaw," said Smyth. "Because of the volume 
that we handle, to ·get through the day, you 
have to take shortcuts. But shortcuts don't 
necessarily mean short~change." 

The state Attorney General's office, which 
is representing the defendants in the suit, 
agrees with Smyth's assessment. After the law~ 
suit was filed in January 1995, the state 
entered a motion to dismiss the case. In 
response to that motion, the CCLU presented 
the court with more details for the suit, 
responding directly to some of the state's 
claims. The CCLU succeede9 when, in Octo~ 
ber 1996, the motion to dismiss was rejected 
by Connecticut Superior Court Justice Dou~ 
glas S. Lavine, who was specially assigned to 
handle the entire case. Lavine wrote that the 
determination of the constitutional questions 
in the suit is "manifestly in the public's inter~ 
est" and he set the trial date for June 1998. 

Despite the rejection of their motion, the 
state does have some powerful arguments in 
its favor. Smyth points out that public defend~ 
ers are an experienced group--averaging more 
than ten years apiece at the job-and he 
claims their familiarity with the various 
options available to defendants allows them to 
handle larger caseloads than one might 
expect. Smyth also feels that the CCLU's 
claim of inadequate expert resources is entire~ 
ly unfounded because it ignores a $600,000 
fund which public defenders can draw upon 
to pay witnesses. According to Smyth, no rea-
sonable application for these funds is ever 
denied, and there is a legislative provision to 
cover approved expert expenses if the 
$600,000 budget is ever exhausted. 

The state also points out that public 
defenders only handle 50 percent of the crim-
inal cases in Connecticut's courts, while the 
other half are dealt with by private defense 
attorneys. Yet the state's prosecutors, who 
handle 1 00 percent of cases, receive a budget 
comparable to that of the public defenders. In 
response, the CCLU has tried to differentiate 
between criminal prosecution and criminal 
defense by pointing out that while prosecu-
tors can always call upon a state official or 
police officer to testify, defense lawyers have to 
pay for everything from expert witnesses to 
psychological testing. Kaplan notes, "(Public 
defenders) have nothing but the resources of 
indigent clients who are facing jail." 

Kaplan also emphasizes that the stakes are 
higher for those who defend the accused. 
"We're personally, morally, and legally respon-
sible for defending a'person, while a prosecu-
tor has no client or personal accountability. 
We represent a person while they represent a 
case." It's the nature of our judicial process 
that defending the accused is almost always 
more costly than prosecuting·them. Prosecu-
tors only need to fit an incljvidual's act into 
the legal definition of a crime, while defenders 
must take into account an entire individual in 
order to demonstrate to the court why such a 
person does not fit into that criminal category. 

The nuanced merits of this argument, 
however, aren't likely to convince politicians 
elected on get~tough~on~crime platforms that 
Connecticut needs a berter public defender 
system. Over the last ten years the number of 
cases handled by public defenders has 
increased by 40 percent but staff increases 
have not kept pace. In the stagnant judicial 
system, any change, including something as 
simple as putting hands on a dock comes 
about slowly. Smyth's years of lobbying for 
increased funding have had little effect. 

It's surprising then that, even while it is 
still pending, Rivera v. Rowland seems to have 



**Title: Rivtra v. Rowland: A Public Defender's Tale**
**Author: Dan Murphy**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
brought about some posmve changes. In 
1995, when the suit was filed, almost none of 
the public defender offices had access to com-
puters. Since then, a capital appropriations 
committee has provided funds to equip all the 
public defender offices with computers and a 
Cast Bast CD-ROM for research purposes. 
The suit also pointed out a lack of communi-
cation between public defenders at different 
levels of the system, but many of those organi-
zational concerns have also been dealt with. 
Smyth is cooyinced that though difficulties 
persist, the system is working. "We have 
addressed some of the things in the com-
plaint," says Smyth, "not just because they're 
in the complaint, but because we've wanted to 
change these things for years. It just took us a 
while to get the funding." 


The CCLU may have already managed to 
increase the budget of Smyth's department. 
Governor Rowland's proposed budget for 
1997-98 contained few surprises; the budget-
cutting Republican slashed state expenditures 
almost across the board. Connecticut's judicial 
branch is slated to receive $5 million less than 
the amount required to ma.t.'ltain services at 
their current level, and the amount allotted for 
criminal justice prosecution dropped by over 
$1 million. Yet amidst all these cutbacks, and a 
political climate that favors punishment, the 
public defender department received a 3.8 per-
cent boost to keep pace with inflation. 


Meanwhile, both sides in the lawsuit are 
interviewing witnesses and preparing materi-
als for the 1998 Rivtra v. Rowland trial date. 
The most recent development in the case 
came in Jariuary when Justice Lavine refused a 
motion by the state that would have prevent-
ed the CCLU from talking to any public 
defender. The Attorney General's Office had 
argued that because the CCLU was suing the 
Public Defender Services Commission, all 
public defenders were party to the lawsuit and 
therefore were ineligible to provide informa-
tion to the CCLU. Though Lavine rejected 
this broad motion, he did issue a protective 
order to prevent the CCLU from speaking to 
top managerial people in the public defenders 
system. A further bearing, not yet held, will 
determine if the CCLU can speak to interme-
diate managers like Kaplan. 


The debate over whether public defenders 
are party to the suit exposes the difficult posi-
tion that public defenders have found them-
selves in. "If the outcome of the lawsuit results 
in increased staff and increased resources for ~ 
0 
our department, then it is favorable for us and o 
our clients," Smyth says. "But our method has ~ 
been to request these things through the nor- ~ 
mal political procedures. Was a lawsuit neces- ~ 
sary to get them? I don't know." 


Kaplan, who is more supportive of the ~ 
CCLU suit, has found a tenuous position for ~ 
himsel£ "There is a common ground where I ; 
can say that I do provide adequate representa- a-
cion for my clients but only at a tremendous § 
toll to myself and my staff," Kaplan explains. !!!. 
"It seems to me that there's much more room 
for agreement on how w address these under-
lying problems. The aim of the lawsuit, as I 
understand it, is to define and put parameters 
on what the problems are. The solution isn't 
to deny that the problems exist or say that 
they're manageable." 


From Rowland's perspective, "the solu-
tion" may be to boost the public defender 
budget just enough to neutralize the CCLU's 
main complaint-underfunding. Whether 
this is a tacit acknowledgment that the public 
defender office has been underfunded for 
years, or just a sign that Rowland doesn't like 
being sued, remains unclear. The true mea-
sure of Rivtra v. Rowland's success will be if it 
manages to bring about any lasting change in 
Connecticut's public defender system. 


Some of those who know the system best 
remain skeptical. One day outside of Court-
room 4, a man charged with assault for get-
ting in a fight with a co-worker waits for his 
case to be called. He approaches Kaplan to ask 
the time and then jokes, "I think I'm going ro 
become a lawyer. I'm here a lot anyway." 
Kaplan, half-jokingly replies with the advice 
of someone who's already familiar with the ail-
ing system: "Become a doctor." 
181 


**Title: Faith, Hope, and Charity**
**Author: Ben Smith**
**Page number(s): 21**

he innocuous green and ye!low Victorian house at 1302 
Chapel Street gives no sign of its recent role in a neighbor-
hood controversy. Nor is there any visible sign on its across-
the-meet neighbor, 1303 Chapel, which might reveal the 
tumult of its occupants' history. This is fitting, since Elsie Cofield, 
founder and president of the AIDS care organization housed at 1303, is 
trying to put the past behind her. She does not dwell on the conflict 
that ultimately split her organization-the AIDS Interfaith Network 
(AI)-from its former parmer-parent organization AIDS Project New 
Haven (APNH). 


Cofield has not, however, forgotten the past. She is, in fact, the only 
party to the conflict who was present at the beginning. And she has 
kept a careful record: of the paternalistic treatment of AIDS Inter-
faith-which traditionally serves blacks-by the traditionally white and 
gay-oriented APNH; of the persistent understaffing of the organization, 
of APNH's abrupt curtailment of their parmership; of the difficulty she 
had in re~tablishing her organization independently; and, finally, of 
the unannounced change of address which brought APNH right onto 
her hard-won territory in the Dwight neigborhood. 


All this memory is stored in a black leather bag, in the form of let-
ters and newspaper clippings. Cofield maneuvers through her big, clut-
tered office to return with her "bag of history." She expresses her uneasi-
ness with the decisions of APNH by collecting and remembering, but 
resists becoming mired in conflict. She has stopped attending the 
demonstrations and vigils organized by black community leaders from 
outside AI who object to the racial disrespect they see in APNH's treat-
ment of Al-
most recently, in the relocation of APNH to 1302 
Chapel. 


The protesters are concerned that APNH intends to displace AI, 
and to replace the self-sufficient black organization with a white charity. 
Despite the fact that APNH now serves black, white, and Latino clients 
in equal numbers, some vocal members of the black community still 
identify it with the gay, white community from which it was born. This 
misconception is perpetuated by APNH lore: it was New Haven's first 
public response to the epidemic, after a conversation in a gay bar in 
1983 prompted its foundation. 


Sources at both organizations confirm that their clients are mostly 
addicts, both women and men. The guidelines for providing care are 
not drawn on the basis of gender or sexual orientation, or even race, 
though AI still serves mostly black clients. Nonetheless, the protesters 
see APNH's move as motivated by competition for grant money, 
clients, and power. 


Cofield digs into the leather bag. As she rummages, she recalls the 
beginning of her involvement with the fight against AIDS. In 
1987 Cofield was three weeks from retirement afrer a 31-year 
career as a public school teacher when a black Yale Divinity School stu-
dent approached her. Allison Moore (DIY '90) asked for Cofield's help 
in developing a program aimed specifically at helping African Ameri-
cans infected with HIY. Cofield is a religious woman, married to Dr. 
Curtis Cofield, the prominent minister of the Immanuel Baptist 
Church; she meditated and prayed on the request for three weeks. At 
the end of that time, she told Moore that fighting AIDS was her calling 
from God. She wears a pin on her colorful sweater that reads, "If you 
believe AIDS is a plague from God, you haven't met my God." 


AI got its initial financial support from APNH, and spent its first 
four years under the patronage of the older organization. 'They gave us 
that first $12,000 just for the asking," Cofield said. APNH gave the 
money gladly. Alvin Novick, a Yale biology professor, one of the 
founders of APNH, said that APNH had been trying to help black 
New Haven help itself since 1984. '1\PNH didn't see itself as not serv-
ing minority clients," Novick recalled. But APNH soon recognized that 
the black HIV-positive community would be better served and feel 
more comfortable with an organization from within their own commu-
nity. The partnership with Cofield brought APNH closer to that goal. 


Cofield's association with Immanuel Baptist gave her the credibility 
within the African-American community that APNH lacked. She 
worked to minimize the black community's discomfort-her own 
included-with AIDS and homosexuality thar had crippled APNH in 
its efforts to reach black clients. Cofield took congregations by surprise, 
preparing them for a video on condom use with the reminder, "As you 
all know, I've been teaching the Bible for a long time, but tonight is 
21 



**Title: A Passage to India**
**Author: Samita Sinha**
**Page number(s): 24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I watched my mother's lean figure stride confidently ahead of me, 
impatiently waiting for her to answer my question. Distracted, she 
glanced at me over her shoulder. "What did you say?" Since my 
mother was· at least ten paces.ahead of me, our valiant attempts to 
communicate were repeatedly thwarted during our walk along a poorly' 
paved road in Serarnpore, India. Exasperated, I caught up beside her 
and managed to express my surprise at the vigilance of the fruit vendors 
over their wares. I had barely completed my thought before I was 
harassed by shrill rickshaw horns, temperamental cows and ·dogs, and 
uncompromising pedestrians, all attempting to weave through the 
crowded marketplace. My mother instinctively shoved me ahead of her. 
"One line!" she scolded, anxiety edging into her voice and tensing her 
body. 


During my travels to India this past winter break, the anarchic 
activity of the market overloaded my senses, leaving me virtually immo-
bilized. A stunning, sun-beaten woman in a tattered sari walked grace-
fully on the opposite side of the road with a straw basket balanced on 
the crown of her head; I attempted a friendly smile to justify my indis-
creet curiosity when she caught my eye. The tempting aroma of deep-
fried snacks mingled with the offensive stench of feces, but the oppres-
sive smog formed a layer of grit in my mouth which overpowered both. 
A five-year-old boy carrying an inf.uu stood at a busy intersection in 
front of me. He cupped his hands, staring through me with a chilling 
combination of pride and desperation. 


That little boy was omnipresent-sometimes I shelled out rupees 
from the neatly sewn pockets of my Calvin Klein jeans to fill his tiny 
hands, other times I smiled at him apologetically. Sometimes I cried 
quietly, other times I inhaled the polluted air and continued toward a 
jewelry dealer or sari boutique. Invariably, I was physically and emo-
tionally taxed by the time darkness cast a pathetic veil over my five-
year-old friend-by the time I was safely indoors. 


Five years had passed since my family and I had last visited our 
extended family in India, and we all noticed the changes that had 
occurred in that short time. My mother asked beneath her breath, 
"Hamara desh ko kya ho gaya?" What has happened to our country? 
"Hai bhagwan," she whispered, calling to God for an answer. 


Our? I flinched with surprise at her choice of pronoun, and stole a 
sidelong glance at my sister. Our? 


My compassion toward the people I encountered in India stemmed 
from the frequent use of this kind of vocabulary in_ my household: 
"your" people, "our" kind. Standing on this poorly paved road in Ser-
ampore, I had difficulty directly associating myself with the foreign 
scene I witnessed. I was experiencing a mild identity crisis, reaching a 
point where categories no longer applied. Being Indian seemed as irrel-
evant to what was important about my identity as being American or 
even Indian-American. These labels suspended and trapped me. 


Granted, Floral Park, a Long Island suburb, was not an environ-
ment which encouraged me to explore my Indian culture. I remember 
my youthful pangs of resentment toward my "differences" and imma-
ture jealousy toward my friends when Christmas and Easter came 
around. When I approached my mother about curfew for junior prom, 
butterflies fluttered in my stomach, "But evn-yone stays out until break-
fast, it's just a thing, Mom!" As my feelings of alienation were subtly but 
continually reinforced, I turned to the Indian "half' of my culture for 
solace. Every weekend, I escaped to a· temple on Kissena Boulevard in 
Flushing, New York. The familiar scent of agra batti and the quiet 
chanting of prayers provided a peaceful setting in which to train myself 
in classical Hindi music. I dressed in luxurious Indian clothing for wed-


--- Page 22 ---

**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Samita Sinha**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
dings and special holidays and attempted to learn Hindi in erratic 
spurts throughout junior high and high school. My Indian culture 
made me separate, special, important. When I couldn't be wholly 
American according to the skewed definicion I had formulated, I could 
always be Indian. 

But standing outside my grandmother's house in Serampore, I got 
my jeans soaked while trying to wash my hair, using only a manual 
water pump and buckets. Unable to master this seemingly simple task, 
I eventually sought out the local beauty salon. Along the way, I had to 
concentrate s-o hard on sidestepping manure and avoiding rabid ani-
mals that even walking proved to be a trial. I opted instead to ride in a 
rickshaw pedaled by a shoeless, toothless man. The hard skin on the 
soles of his feet entranced me until the vehicle came to a halt in front of 
"Glamourous Woman." Upon observing the perverse irony of this situ-
ation, I overpaid the rickshaw driver. I was simply attempting to relieve 
the guilt that weighed on my conscience, but I could not shake the feel-
ing of desperation I felt when I conceived of the unbridgeable distance 
between my world and his. 

T
hat is not to say that poverty defines a culture; rather, the rapes-
try of Indian culture is intricate and richly woven. Therein lay 
the crux of my dilemma. Despite my appreciation of the beauti-
ful sarees and songs and foods, the immediacy of daily life alienated me 
from what I possessively considered to be my country (my other coun-
try, at the very least). I feigned a comfortable stroll down the streets of 
Calcutta. but I even stuck out physically: I was taller than the average 
Indian woman and had a noticeably different physical carriage. When 
speaking Hindi, my American accent was glaring and elicited affection-
ate giggles from my family. In forgetting to aspirate a "ch" sound, I 
\ 
APRIL I8, 1997 
wound up asking for a bracelet, "churi," instead of a knife, "chhuri." 
?; 
These ostensible differences were only a small part of my alienation. !l 
More obvious was the strength and confidence with which my sister ~ 
and I moved and spoke, in contrast to the much milder, more submis- ~ 
sive behavior of my younger female cousin, Rinky. As my sister spoke ~ 
excitedly of her post-graduate plans, Rinky unobtrusively cleared the E 
kitchen table and prepared tea with downcast eyes. This image spoke ~ 
loudly to me. I turned over a single thought: I was an outsider in Floral ~ 
Park; I was an outsider in my native country. Did my identity float ~ 
within an abstract concept of being Indian-American, existing more at ~ 
the hyphen than within the words on either side? 
g 
Thoroughly jet lagged, I returned to Yale with this question weigh- ~ 
ing on my mind. I smiled weakly each time someone casually asked me -
about my break, and following my cue, recited a condensed version of 
my trip. As I recounted my experiences from the perspective of an Indi-
an, an American, an Indian-American, a woman, a student, I realized 
that I had cultivated a personal perspective not formed by belonging to 
any of these groups. My experiences have thus far formed who I am 
fundamentally, but these experiences live and breathe independent of 
labels. The voice and person of Samita transcended one-dimensional 
categories, and soared above the necessity to be pinned down. 

Gathering personal identity from contrived labels creates unneces-
sary apoplexy. Had I observed my native country without pigeonholing 
my perspective into that of an "insider" or an "outsider," my experience 
could have simply been about c:perimcing. The tears I shed for the des-
perate and proud five-year-old boy become more real when they are not 
shrouded by the self-pity borne of a false identity crisis. 
18] 
Samita Sinha is a fr~hman in Saybrook Co/kg~. 
25 


**Title: Taunton Lake**
**Author: James Prosek**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

H
aines kept his promise to take me fishing. I hadn't thought he 
was going to call, but he did, one Saturday afternoon. The ini-
tial invitation was a bit awkward for both of us. 

"I like to take the kids I catch fishing," he said to me over the 
phone, "to show them that there are just as many fish in legal waters." 

Something about his tone of voice told me that Haines wasn't 
exactly telling the truth. I doubted he made a habit out of taking kids 
.)/(. he had caught fishing illegally, but he wasn't sure how to ask me, so he 
~ made it sound like part of his job as a game warden for the Bridgeport 
.t Hydraulic Company. 

~ 
He said he was taking me to a private lake in Newtown called 
~ Taunton. Coming to pick me up in an hour, if that was okay. It was. & 
1> we drove, he commented on the things we passed; he knew the owner 
~ of Swanson's Fish Market, had pruned trees every spring at Slady's 
Taunton 
Lake 
-
James Prosek 
Farm, and had bought lumber at Henderson's. From the moment he 
picked me up at my house in his old black Chevy truck, I began to see 
things through his eyes. 

By the upper reaches of the Pequonnuck River, where I had fished 
many times before, Haines spotted a large snapping turtle crossing the 
road. 

"Hold on a minute," he said, pulling off to the side and getting out 
of the truck. I followed him out, leaping from the Chevy's high plat-
form. 

"Don't want it to get hit," he said, grabbing the turtle by the tail 
and holding it out from his body so that its long neck and claws 
couldn't reach his leg. He moved it to safety, and I watched the turtle 
waddle off into the damp swampy woods. 

"Would have kept it to eat," Haines said, once we were back in the 
THE NEW jOURNAL 


**Title: An Interview with James Prosek**
**Author: Gabriel Snyder**
**Page number(s): 27**

An Interview with James Prosek 
1NJ: What is the new book, joe 
and Me, about? 
Prosek: It's basically just 18 sto-
ries about this old guy Joe Haines, 
a game warden, who caught me 
fishing illegally when I was 14 
years old at the local reservoir. 
When he arrested me, or whatev-
er you do_.with a fishing criminal, 
he started.-taking me fishing. He's 
become a good friend. I think 
what happened was that his son 
had recently moved out to Col-
orado, and he was maybe five years older than me, and I kind of 
became a replacement. The book doesn't really rry to be anything. 
It's a very simple book. It's written very simply. There's 18 illustra-
tions that do their best to accentuate a particular moment in a 
story. 

1NJ: In virtually every review of Trout: An Illustrated History, 
reviewers either called you the "Audubon of fish" or said that the 
claims that you were the ":Audubon of fish" were overblown, but 
they all dealt with that issue. How do you react to that kind of 
comparison? 
Prosek: Well, I don't feel worthy. Especially since Audubon spent 
a lifetime with birds and didn't publish his works until he was at 
least, I don't know, 45. I'm 21 years old. Audubon was really the 
reason why I did a book like the trout book. As a kid, I started 
painting Audubon's birds or copying them. My dad would bring 
home Audubon's volumes of Birds of North America, which are 
these fantastically colorful bird drawings. So, to be compared with 
Audubon is very nice. I enjoy it more from a business perspective 
because I know that it's good for publicity. I know it's a good kind 
of line, but I don't really think you can compare Audubon to, 
well, I aon't know, anybody this century. 

TNJ: Most kids your age who want to write or do art for a living 
truck. 

"What, the turtle?" I asked him. "You eat turtles?" 

"Sure, but my freezer's packed with meat as it is. I got some heavy 
eating to do." He cleared his throat. 

"How would you eat a turtle?" I asked Haines. "Are they any 
good?" 

"Snappers have got sweet meat. I've got some friends that love 'em. 
I usually bring 'em to Danny Lee or Earl, and they prepare 'em and 
bring me a container with turtle soup. You could make a lot of soup 
from a turtle the size we just saw." 

"How big would you say that turtle was?" 

"Oh geez, that one'd go probably 40 pounds. Lots of meat on that 
one. I've cleaned them myself before but it takes a lot of work." 

"What do you have to do?" I asked. I had already figured out that 
APRIL 18, 1997 
think about doing a book sometime in the distant future. You 
have your second book coming out when you're 21, what do you 
want to be doing 20 years from·now? 
Prosek: Playing rock music. No, seriously, I'd very much like to 
write. I want to do a book on the trout of the rest of the world. 
I've been to Europe fishing for trout. I'd like to go to Japan and 
Siberia. And, there's a few trout in the first book from Mexico, but 
I think there could be some more exploration done down there 
along the west coast of Mexico and Baja. And I'd like to write 
some fiction. I have some stuff I'd like to write about, like murders 
in Baja. 

1NJ: Fishing stories? 
Prosek: It'd probably involve a fishing trip somewhere-a fishing 
trip gone bad. Also, I'd like to be known at some point as a rea-
sonable fine artist, canvas art or sculpture. I'm going to do more 
large canvas oil paintings. I'm interested in the line berween illus-
tration and fine art. But writing and painting are rwo things I'd 
still like to be doing in 20 years. 

TNJ: Do you want to be known as the "trout guy" or do you want 
to do work other than fishing? 
Prosek: If I do a second book, the trout of the world, it'll come 
out in the next five years, and then unless I'm terminated by forces 
beyond my control, I'm going to continue to produce other 
things. I'd like to be known eventually as more than a trout per-
son. The thing about being involved with trout all the time--
talking about it to you, answering whatever questions I can 
answer-is that I'm talking about something I enjoy so much that 
I'm sick of talking about it. Not that I'm sick of doing it, I love 
fishing and I always will. But, if for no other reason, I don't want 
to be the "trout boy" forever because I fear I run the risk of losing 
this passion which has been with me for my whole life and I hope 
will continue to be. But I'm perfectly fine if these rwo books are 
the only ones I ever publish. I will be very happy and satisfied, but 
I will be doing other things whether it's painting or architecture or 
whatever. 

-Interview by Gabriel Snyder 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: James Prosek**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
a small, plain brown clapboard house perched 
on it. There was a dock in the distance, with 
one lone white pine in front of it. 

The lake was flat, except for occasional 
ripples as fish broke the surface. I could pic-
cure the lake coming alive with feeding trout. 
Haines started carrying equipment down the 
hill to the dock and I followed hlm. On the 
second trip, I asked if he wanted me to carry 
the battery, but he had already grabbed it and 
was straining down the hill with it. I followed 
with his tackle box in a whlte bucket and the 
electric trolling motor. 

The lawn was soggy and smelled like 
spring. "Thls house belongs to my friend Red 
Wagner," Haines said. 
"He like to fish?" I asked. 
"Yeah, but he don't get out as much as he 
used to. He's fading a bit, getting old." 

I followed Haines to the edge of the prop-
erty, where there was an aluminum boat up 
on wooden sawhorses. We lifted it, turned it 
right side up, and carried it down the sloping 
lawn, sliding it into the water. Tiling the 
bowline, Haines led the boat to the dock and 
tied it up, and we filled it with our gear. He 
walked to a nearby shed and pulled out his 
key chain, which must have had 30 keys on it. 
He released the padlock and then 6Wllng open 
the door. Inside, we grabbed two seat cush-
ions, a pair of oars, and two orange badges 
with pins. 

"This is a backpatch," he said, holding a 
piece of orange paper, "which says you're a 
guest at the Newtown Fish and Game Club. 
You can thank old Red for that when you 
meet him." Now I was legal, I thought, and 
somehow, a new member of the club. After 
all, he wanted to introduce me to his old 
friend. I had been wondering if thls was a 
one-cime thing, but it seemed that Haines 
already had plans to take me fishing again. 

We got in the aluminum boat and pushed 
off. Haines clamped his small electric trolling 
motor to the stern and then rowed us out. 
"Oh," he said as he was putting his two-
piece fishing rod together, "I met your friend 
Stephen's mother the other day at Greiser's 
_,., store." When Haines came upon us fishing, 
~ Stephen attempted, unsuccessfuUy, to run 
£ away. "Boy, is she proud of her son. She said 
~ to me, 'You won't catch my Stephen again; he 
~ can sprint like a deer and swim like an otter.' 
~ 

I couldn't help but laugh; this was typical 
~ of her. Haines concinued, "And I said to her, 
'Ma'am, your Stephen can swim, but he's got 
to come to the other side at some point.' She 
shut up for a while, and then she insisted that 
she was my classmate down in Bridgepon, 
but I never went to the school she was talking 
about." He dipped the oar in the water and 
stroked and then stopped to hook up the 
trolling motor to the battery. 

"Stephen's mom means well," I said. 
"When did she think she knew you?" Haines 
strung the line through his guides and select-
ed a fly. 

"I guess grammar school. I never liked 
school that much," Haines said. "I had to 
make money, my teachers never understood 
that. Trapping was how I made most of my 
money as a kid." 

"What kind of stuff did you trap?" 

"Muskrat mostly. Occasionally I'd get a 
mink and get a load of money for it. Trapped 
a few fox. But the compecition started getting 
stiff, guys were overlapping my territory, and 
eventually I stopped. There were very few 
houses north of your house in the Tashua area 
back then. I could walk through th~ woods 
from my house to the Merritt Parkway and 
hunt squirrels all day. I had it all to myself" 

I watched Haines rig up hls rod. 

"Ever use lead-core line?" he asked, hold-
ing up the rod. 
"No." 
"Well, the line is heavy and it gees the fly 
down if the fish are deep." He cied the fly to 
the line and laid it in the water. Starting the


--- Page 29 ---

engine again, he let out about thirty feet of 
line. "Why don't you get out your fly rod and 
tie on something about two inches long," 
Haines said. I put a fly on my line and let out 
as much line as he had. "Your line should be 
closer to the surface than mine," he said. 
"That way we can cover more water." 

Haines put his rod in a holder by the edge 
of the boat so he could steer the engine. It was 
the first time this year I'd noticed the sun was 
getting higher .in the sky. The shadows were 
strong. We'd [rolled about three hundred 
yards before anything happened. 

"I think I had a bite," I said, holding my 
fly rod in my hand. 
"Does it feel like a good fish?" Haines 
asked. 
"I can't tell," I said, and then 1 felt it jerk 
again. "There he is again." 
"He gave you a second chance." 
"Yeah, he's on now." I reeled the fish up to 
the boat with ease. It wasn't a trout, which is 
what I was expecting. It was a largemouth 
bass. 

"Mudsucker," Haines said as he netted it. 
"Mudsucker?" 
"Yeah, them bass aren't good for anything. 
People go nuts over 'em but I don't see what 
the big deal is; they make one effort to fight, 
then they give up. And if you eat them in the 
summer they taste like mud. The only time of 
year they're any good to eat is in winter, when 
you catch them through the ice and their flesh 
is good and firm." 

"Bass are what I mostly fished for all my 
life," I said to Haines. "I think they fight 
well." 
"Well, they don't fight like a trout, and 
they don't taste near as good. Oop, there's 
one," he said, hooking a fish and reeling in his 
line. I let the bass go and then netted his fish, 
a lovely little yellow perch with bright orange 
lower fins, a yellow-green body, and dark ver-
tical bands along its sides. 

"Barred trout," Haines said. 
"Barred trout? Don't you mean yellow 
perch?" I asked him. 
"Barred trout are better than bass. They've 
got real nice white meat that flakes off when 
you cook it. This one's too small," Haines 
said, tossing it back into the dark water. 

"That was a perch," I said to Haines, try-
ing one more time, "right?" 
"Barred trout," he said. 
"Okay," I murmured. I soon learned that 
Hrunes had his own particular way of naming 
things. 

**Title: Meat the Beetles**
**Author: Alec Bemis**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Meat the Beetles 
The "terrifying" tale of the BUG ROOM! 
by Alec Bemis 
Dear Mr. Craven, 
Boy, have J•got a movie for you. You're not gonna 
believe it, 'Wes. It has it all: a dashing hero, a prestigious 
American research university. and, get this, FLESH-
EATING BUGS! Best of all, the whole damn thing's 
~!Do yourself a favor and take a moment to go over 
my rough proposal I'd love to bring you in on the project. 
Yours truly, 
· 
""~ 
Fade in: Newsroom of The New journal, New Haven, Connecticut. 
Synopsis: Establishing shot of hero, Alec Bemis, intrepid reporter for 
The New journal Alec chats with a fellow reponer about a possible 
story lead. They are discussing "the bug room." The reponer tells Alec 
that a colony of vicious flesh-eating insects is stored in the basement of . 
Yale's Peabody Museum and that, when hungry, the bugs can dean the 
flesh off a mid-sized animal in under a day. 
Alec immediately calls the Peabody to inquire about the bug room. 
The receptionist is entirely candid about the room's existence. Alec is 
invited for a "visit" on the upcoming Friday. As he puts down the 
receiver, his face tenses. He mutters to himself nervously, "What if this 
is how they take care of inquiring minds? What if I'm scheduled to be 
the next VICTIM OF THE FLESH-EATING BUGS?" 
"It's spring break," he says to himself, visibly calming. "There will 
be no distractions. It's the perfect time to break my big story and eradi-
cate this perversion of nature." [Triumphant, sexy orchestral score kicks in. 
Midway through, the tenor of the music shifts and becomes ominous as the 
screen fades to black} 
Cut to: Basement of the Peabody Museum. Construction sounds, drip-
ping water, and the hum of electric circuitry are audible. 
Synopsis: Alec, tape recorder in hand, walks through the labyrinthine 
corridors of the museum's basement. Next to him is Fred Sibley, collec-
tions manager for venebrate wology. Sibley wears a slighdy rumpled 
button-down shin, tan workpants, and black shoes splattered with a 
white powdery substance. His eyes are a dear, electric blue and his gray 
and white hair is balding in spots. Picture Sibley as a mad scientist type 
but cool and calm, almost too hospitable. The two men converse about 
the history of the bug room. [This bit is sort of boring, but it will clear up 
so~ niggling tktails for the audience.} 
Sibley shares some of the history of osteology-the study of bones. 
In the 1920s, Sibley tells Alec, a group of scientists at UC Berkeley dis-
covered that dermistid beedes eliminated the need to spend hours 
scrubbing down carcasses. The dermiscid survives by feasting on the 
flesh of dead animals. Scientists found that the beedes would e.fficiendy 
dean off mammal skulls or any other manner of ~ 
corpse. "Some people still use the older method," he o 
says. "You rot the animal, boil it, wait for the flesh to .!i 
rub off, and then scrub it gendy. You just lose a lot of ~ 
the little bones. That's why the dermiscids are really g' 
good on smaller birds." 
~· 
Alec asks if the dermistids really do eat animals ;! 
only bones in their wake. "They don't eat connective tis- ~ 
sue and they don't eat cartilage which is a good thing in a way," Sibley ~ 
says. "It means you have a lot of material left on a big skeleton." Alec ~ 
cringes. He wonders if there's much demand for bigger skeletons as Sib- ~ 
ley eyes his mid-sized frame. [Scene ends with the sound of screeching vio-
lins playing over an extreme close-up of Alec's terrified face.} 
Cut to: The bug room. T he sound of dripping water virtually drowns 
out conversation. Dingy metallic sinks are on full blast. A small labora-
tory oven is in the corner of the room. Skulls and bones covered with 
bits of DRIED AND ROTTEN FLESH litter the floor. 
Synopsis: Alec winces at the smell of rotting animal hides. Sibley, appar-
endy accustomed to the scent, is unfazed. "This would actually be 
called the prep room," he says. "That is the bug room." Sibley points to 
a door in the corner. Alec asks to get a look inside. 
As Sibley opens the door, releasing a harsh gust of rotten air, Alec 
grabs his nose, unable to cope with the stench. The bug room is about 
the size of a small walk-in closet. Thousands of pill-shaped inseCts 
weave their way through the sinewy flesh of various unfamiliar carrion. 
Alec is vulnerable and defenseless. He is BEETLE MEAT. His eyes go 
wide as pie plates staring at the carnage. 
Sibley speaks about the bug room with a kind of wild enthusiasm, a 
depraved relish. "In there right now is an emu, an ostrich, a great egret, 
a snowy egret, a red-tailed hawk, and a tuna head. All road kills or nat-
ural deaths. They've been in a long time because the heat is not right 
and a lot of the bugs have died. If the colony was really working the 
room would just be one mass of larvae. The floor would move and a 
bird skeleton would be cleaned in a day or two at most. Individual bee-
tles work very, very slowly chewing off that flesh. In these conditions it 
could take a month." 
Alec confronts Sibley. He asks if the bugs are a threat to living, 
breathing creatures-perhaps to people? Do they savor FRESH 
MEAT? Alec is determined to get to the bottom of Sibley's devious 
plans. 
"Oh, no they're not going to do anything to a living or breathing 
animal," Sibley says. "They don't want anything wet or moist because 
they'll just drown in a damp environment." 
"Oh," our fearless hero says. "Cool."



Print and 
Mail 
ServiCes 
155 Whitney Avenue 
432-6560 
~X: 432·6274 
EMAIL.: AFDL.ETII@YaleADS 
149 York Street 
432-2679 
ALSO OFFERING 
Full color copies 
Course materials 
Complete mail service 
Graphic design 
Affordable Copies 
Quick turnaround 
High quality 
~\S -
. 
~I!' 
~ _ P ickup and 
\1:.1 
delivery 
Offset printing 
Optical character recognition 
Network accessibility 
• 

