Publication date: September 1984
Volume: 17
Issue number: 1


**MASTHEAD:**
- Cover sketch by: Beth Callaghan
- Cover sketch courtesy of: Claes Oldenburg
- Cover photo by: Chris Ryan


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
Between the Vines - 10
To Think or Not To Think - Tony Reese
Sharing the Wealth of Words - Lisa Chang
Yale's Colossal Cosmetic - Anne Applebaum and Tony Reese
Adrift in the Mainstream - Joyce Banerjee
In Love with Louis' - Jonathan Young
What's in a Pseudonym? - Tina Keilty
Soul of the Shining City - Rogers Smith
Afterthought - 34
About This Issue - 5
NewsJournal - 6


**Title: To Think or Not To Think**
**Author: Tony Reese**
**Page number(s): 12**

To justify the world's belief in our intelligence, we overindulge in thought. It 
becomes an act of self-preservation. Everyone is doing it, so hadn't we better keep 
up?


**Title: Sharing the Wealth of Words**
**Author: Lisa Chang**
**Page number(s): 16**

Asian Community Services provides Yale students with a chance to teach English 
to Chinese and Southeast Asian immigrants and refugees.


**Title: Yale's Colossal Cosmetic**
**Author: Anne Applebaum and Tony Reese**
**Page number(s): 24**

Fifteen-and ten-years after its arrivals at Yale, Claes Oldenburg's Lipstick is 
more than just a campus curiosity. It remains a serious sculpture though its 
original meanings have been replaced.


**Title: Adrift in the Mainstream**
**Author: Joyce Banerjee**
**Page number(s): 30**

New Haven teenagers who congregate on campus describe their music (and 
philosophies) as «anger in a fun way. " But a distance remains between the kids 
and those who live and work at Yale.


**Title: In Love with Louis'**
**Author: Jonathan Young**

Birthplace of the hamburger, Louis' Lunch offers the burger connoisseur the world 
on a platter, with everything. Everything, that is, except catsup.


**Title: What's in a Pseudonym?**
**Author: Tina Keilty**
**Page number(s): 34**

When a white Yale graduate writing under a Hispanic pen name wins an award 
for his book about life in the Los Angeles barrios, controversy and questions arise.


**Title: Soul of the Shining City**
**Author: Rogers Smith**
**Page number(s): 38**

While accepting America's religious roots and tradition of shared values, a noted 
political science professor warns that legislating voluntary prayer may lead to 
proselytizing and conformity in both schools and legislature.

**Title: SZECHUAN & PEKING STYLE CUISINE**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
SZECHUAN & PEKING 
STYLE CUISINE 
• Reservations Suggested. 
• Catering to all size parties 
• Special menus available. 
• TAKE OUT • 
Open 7 Days • Lunch • Dinner • Happy Hour 
1720 Dtxwell Avenue, Hamden 288·7199 


**Title: The New Journal, Issue**
**Author: T.K.**
**Page number(s): 5**

• 
•• IS 
ssue 
The New journal, · a magazine of news 
and features about Yale and New 
Haven, p~blishes six times a year and 
is distributed free to all members of the 
University community. Founded in 1967, 
it discontinued publication in 1979 and 
was revived with a new format in 1981. 
We now print letters to the editor,. which 
we welcome at all times; Newsjournals, 
short new stories or followups of past 
articles; 
Between 
the · Vines, 
a 
thoughtful commentary or humorous 
essay about life behind the scenes at 
Yale; feature 
stories 
and section 
pieces: architecture, arts, books, pro-
file, sports and theater. Afterthought, 
our final essay, is usually written by an 
expert in a field of interest to the Yale 
community. Throughout, we aim to 
bring you thought-provoking and enter-
taining journalism. 

The September issue comes to you 
from all over the country. We started 
·' 
and Public Risks 
. 
A New Chapter in the AIDS Debate 
working on itin April and continued all 
summer. Parts were Federal Ex'pressed 
from Cincinnati, Ohio. One story was 
edited near the downtown lion of the 
New York Public Lib.rary, another was 
polished on a train from Washington, 
·D.C. Most of the staff arrived August 20 
to put this issue together, and we are 
starting work on the October magazine 
now. We welcome new ideas and new 
faces. 

The New Journal has all the en-
thusiasm of a brand new magazine, 
and for a three-year-old publication 
we've already established a reputation 
for quality writing. Recently, for ex-
ample, 
former 
~ditor-in-chief W. 
Hampton Sides '84 won the Rolling Stone 
Colfege Journalism Award for in-
vestigative journalism for his story on a 
New Haven prostitute who was a 
suspected AIDS carrier. 60 lvfinutes aired 
an investigation of his story, which ap-
peared on the cover of our December 
issue. In addition, former New Journal 
editors Paul Hofheinz and Morris 
Panner '84 won the English depart-
ment's Wright Prize for a journalistic 
or descriptive article for "Letters from 
Quang Tri," their documentation of 
Dick Pershing '66, who died in the 
Vietnam War. The article appeared in 
our March special issue on the war. In 
the past two years, four New Journal 
writers have won this award. 

Read and enjoy this issue. We'd like 
to hear your opinions and your ideas. 
We'd likeyour proposals for future ar-
ticles. We'd like your help in the 
business department to keep The New 
Journal completely advertiser-
supported. And we'd like to see you at 
our organizational 
meeting on 
September 10. 

Look for us in your mailbox in Oct-
ober. 

-T.K. 
The New Journal encourages letters to the editor 
and comment on Yale and New Haven i sues. 
Write to Tina Kelley, Editorials, 3432 Yale Sta-
tion, New Haven, CT 06520. All leuers for 
publication must include address and ignature . 


**Title: NewsJournal**
**Author: Rich Blow**
**Page number(s): 6**

NewsJournal 
Cash Withdraws 
The circumstances were mysterious 
to say the least when Robin Cash, Yale's 
head coach of field hockey and women's 
lacrosse, announced her resignation on 
August 17, just two weeks before the 
field hockey team held its first practice. 
Cash, well-known for promoting both 
sports nationally, had coached field 
hockey to a 19-20-13 mark and lacrosse 
to a record of 28-23-1, including · an 
NCAA tournament berth this spring. 
Cash announced only that she decided 
to leave coaching for personal reasons 
and hoped to return to Yale in the fall as 
a special student. 

Six days later more of the story 
broke in a New York Times article head-
lined "Another Woman Resigns at 
Yale." Times reporter Lawrie Miffiin, a 
Yale graduate and the first captain of 
the field hockey team, wrote that Cash's 
departure raised "questions about the 
way female coaches are treated at Yale." 
Cash's resignation, wrote Miffiin, was 
the seventh coaching change affecting 
women's varsity sports since May. The 
former coach herself made the cryptic 
remark that in addition to personal 
reasons she left her job "because the at-
mosphere for coaches at Yale is such 
that I felt no reason to give it another 
year." 

Director of Athletics Frank Ryan 
strongly challenged Miffiin's reporting, 
heatedly calling the article "full of 
spurious information." "It's a gross 
misinterpretation of what goes on here," 
Ryan said. "She's writing in a very 
biased and one-sided way about a story 
that just isn't there. All I can think is 
that maybe Lawrie Miffiin is a friend of 
Robin Cash." 

Are women coaches at Yale badly 
treated? 
Maggie 
Muldoon, 
coach of women's varsity basketball and 
softball, thinks so; Yale declined to 
renew her contract over the summer. 
Muldoon feels she was let go because 
she was a vocal critic of Frank Ryan. 
"Women's athletics at Yale are a second 
class citizen," claimed Muldoon. "I was 
told by Frank Ryan when I was hired 
6 The New Journal/September 7, 1984 
program. 
Ryan 
accurately 
noted, 
~ "Almost all our coaches are involved in 
~ multi-assigments. Steve Griggs, for ex-
ample, is the coach of men's varsity soc-
j 
cer and tennis, while Michael Wald-
£ 
vogel is the men's varsity lacrosse coach 
~ and coach of freshman 
football." 
~ Griggs, however, is the only male coach 
f with two varsity coaching assignments. 
8 ~nd his two seasons do not run con-
secutively- unlike those of Dale 
Walker, the new lacrosse coach. She is 
also the women's varsity squash coach. 
Athletic Director Frank Ryan 
that varsity softball was not a priority. 
Women's basketball was a priority. 
Right away, that's unfair to the softball 
team. But having to coach two teams 
with overlapping seasons made it next 
to impossible to coach either one to their 
full potential." Muldoon added that 
recruiting was made especially difficult 
because of her back-to-back coaching 
responsibilities. 

Robin Cash not only agreed that two 
varsity coaching positions are too much 
for any coach, she also asserted that 
such duties were unequally assigned to 
female 
coaches of female 
teams. 
"There's no way you can handle two 
varsity teams fairly," Cash stated. "The 
administration can choose which teams 
to 
make 
successful. . Right 
now, 
women's athletics are . . . liveable. 
They certainly aren't what they could 
be." 

Frank Ryan flatly denied that he has 
de-emphasized the women's athletics 
The issue goes beyond that of propor-
tionate coaching responsibilities for 
men and women, however; Robin Cash 
alleged that women coaches are paid 
less than men coaches as well. But 
Frank Ryan maintained, "We decide 
our salaries by the marketplace and by 
the structure of salaries at Yale. We 
don't shortchange anybody." 

Though it is athletic department 
policy that salaries are strictly confiden-
tial, a New journal source indicated that 
while the highest-paid woman coach 
will earn less than $30,000 in 1984, no 
fewer than ten male coaches have 
salaries above that figure. In addition, 
the top-earning male coach will take 
home nearly J40,000 more than the 
highest-paid woman. The statistics by 
themselves are hardly conclusive, but 
they do lend credence to Cash's state-
ment: "In 
the athletic department 
there's a feeling of 'Oh, it's only a 
women's sport.'" 

Frank Ryan declined to comment on 
these figures. 

Meanwhile the field hockey team 
continues practicing, hoping to insulate 
its season from this administrative tur-
bulence. Nonetheless, they are well 
aware of the disputes over their athletic 
program. According to Lucy Bernholz, 
four-time 
varsity 
player and 
women's lacrosse captain for 1985, "You 
see all these women coaches leave and it 
makes you think, 'What's going on?' I 
can't say for sure if the administration 
prompted Robin's resignation, but if 
they did, then there's something wrong 
with the administration." 

-Rich Blow



**GALA Mall**
**Author: Tory Reese**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
GALA Mall
One letter read, "A pox on you! Oh 
for the days when Yale was for men." 
"Does Yale want to be the leader of the 
Decline and Fall of the USA?" asked 
another "I wasnever too enthusiastic 
about Yale going coeducational but 
this is the last straw." These diatribes 
are a few of the 11 6 letters the Yale 
Alumni Magazine and Journal (Y AMJ) 
has received over the past six months 
in response to an ad in its February 
issue for Yale Gay and Lesbian Alum-
ni {GALA). 

Yale GALA, formed in spring 1982, 
bought the half-page ad to publicize its 
existence and programs, such as reu-
nion activities and aid to campus 
organizations "in their efforts to make 
Yale a better place for lesbian and gay 
students, faculty and staff." YAMJ ac-
cepted the ad, according to Editor AI 
Mitchell, because "the content was not 
inappropriate; there was nothing ob-
jectionable." YAMJ Advertising 
Manager Susan Fox noted that gay 
student organization s have run small 
ads in the past without causing any 
reader response. 

The initial response was entirely 
hostile, but the response to the indig-
nant letters was even larger, and Mit-
chell calculates that overall the letters 
are nearly three to one in support of the 
ad or the organization . GALA has been 
encouraged by the response it has 
received; membership has doubled to 
over 450 since the ad was printed, and 
there are GALA chapters in New 
Haven, New York. San Francisco. 
Boston, Chicago, Seattle, Philadelphia 
and Maine. GALA has members from 
classes from 1929 to 1987, representing 
all of Yale's graduate schools and faculty 
and staff members as well as the Col-
lege. 

. For the first time GALA participated 
tn the University reunions in June. 
Events included a brunch and a picnic 
as well as a speech by History Professor 
John Boswell on "Gay People and the 
University." GALA events were attend-
ed by 70 people. many of whom were 
not there for their own reunions. In the 
reunion process GALA again ran afoul 
of older alumni. Each class secretarv 
can choose which information on non~ 
class activities to include in alumni 
registration 
packets. 
and only the 
classes of 1969. 1974 and 1979 induded 
the GALA material. 

According to Corey Friedlander. SM 
'74, a GALA member who organized 
reunion events. the Association of Yale 
Alumni (A YAr has been very suppor-
tive. at lt'aSt 
logistically. 
"They've 
treateu us just as they would any other 
alumni organization. That's the best we 
can hope for." he said. Official Univer-
'ity poli<:y is guided by the Yale Cor-
poration 
Equal Opportunity Policy 
~tclling that Yak· is commi11ed to 
.. resptTting an individual's attitudes on a 
variety of mauers that are essentially 
personal in nature." 

In October YAA-U will publish two 
further reader k11crs bringing the total 
number of lellt'rs publisht·d to 48. the 
first time YAA-U has not published all 
readt•r kllt•rs . .. This is a larger response 
than ~e·n· had 10 .1nything before." said 
Mitchdl. "t'\'t'n when Yale gave Ja<.·k 
Kt•nnedy an honorary deRrt>t'." 
- To'!y Reese


**Blues Go for Gold**
**Author: Joyu BantT)tt**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

Gold Medalist Carol Bower rowing on the Housatonic
Blues Go for Gold 
During the opening ceremonies of the 
Summer Olympics, as the American 
athletes gathered in the infield of Los 
Angeles Coliseum, a stray ABC camera 
focused on the face of Carol Bower, the 
women's novice crew coach at Yale. 
Eight days later Bower and her team-
mates won the eights in rowing. the first 
American gold medal in international 
women's crew competition. Along with 
Bower, several other Yale coaches, 
alumni and '>tudents participated in the 
twenty-third Olympiad. both a" athletes 
and coaches. all with varying degrees of 
success. 

Clearly the Yale Olympians made 
their strongest showing in rowing. 
Carol Bower missed the boy<.·oned 
Moscow Game!>, and her 1984 gold 
medal culminatt·d nearly eight years of 
t~aming and competing for the Olym-
ptcs. After movtnl{ to New Haven lour 
years ago, Bower, a 28-year old UCLA 
graduate, rowed each morning with ex-
Yalies Chris Ernst and Ann Bouche in 
preparation for the national squad. 
Ernst '76 ai<Kl made the Olympic team 
as a spare scullt•r, although sh<.· did not 
h~vt• an ,opportunity ~o compctt·. Ginny 
Gtlder 79 took a Silver medal in the 
women's quad. 

Among the men. John Biglow '80, 
who rowed stroke for the 1979 Yale 
Th .. Nt•" .Jnurn.ol 'S..·ptt·mht·o 7. I 'IH4 7

heavyweight team, was a medal favorite 
in single sculling. Plagued with a back 
injury throughout the competition, 
however, Biglow narrowly missed a 
bronze medal in his final sprint. Dave 
Johnson '83 was a member of the 
Canadian four without coxswain, which 
failed to qualify for the finals held in 
Lake Casitas, California. 

Back in Los Angeles Diane Moyer, 
Yale's new field hockey coach, played 
goalie for the bronze medal-winning 
American 
team. 
't'cJle's 
swimming 
coach, Frank Keefe, served as the 
breaststroke specialist for the powerful 
American squad. Working in conjunc· 
tion with each swimmer's individual 
coach, Keefe guided Steve Lundquist 
and Susan Rapp to gold medals. Henry 
Harutunian, 
Yale's fencing coach, 
worked as one of the three coaches for 
the Olympic team. In the saber com· 
petition 
the United States won a 
bronze medal, the first American medal 
in fencing since 1960. 

Finally, Larry Miller '86. the Ivy 
League champion in the 400 meters, 
competed 
in 
the Games 
for 
the 
Antigua·Antilles team. Besides running 
in the 200 meters. the 400 meters and 
the 4x400 rday, Miller raced the anchor 
leg in the semi-finals for the 4x I 00 relay 
- joyu BantT)tt


**Reid Beyond the Facts**
**Author: Marilynn Sager**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

Reid Beyond the Facts 
How safe is it to be a visiting speaker at 
Yale? At least one recent guest lecturer 
will probablv sti< k to writing insa·ad of 
speaking from now on. ~ven the alter-
math of his last appearance on campus 
and the damm~e dont> to his reputation. 
In March t<l8:l 
Alastair Reici. a 
veteran writer at the Sm >'nrk". "poke 
in a college '-t'lllinar spon-.orTcl by 
Ezra Stiles 
and Jonathan 
l-:Ciwards 
entitled "The Ri~t to Write and the 
Perils of Print." Reid- ' isited at the in-
vitation of the 
imtnJCtor. 
Joseph 
Cooper. editori;t) <ounsel to the \'m• 
York". Reid di~t<>med the thin lim• be-
tween fact and fiuion and the jour-
nalistic problems it presents, ntmg ex-
amples from several of his own articles. 

On .June 18, 1984 .Joanne Lipman '83, 
a student in Cooper's seminar who is 
now a Wall Strut Journal reporter, de-
noum-..·cl Reid in a front-page artide. 
"He has sp<·nt his career creaung com-
posite tales and scenes, fabri<·ating per-
sonae, rearranging events and creating 
conversations in a plethora of pieces 
presented as non-fiction," she wrote. In 
Cboper's seminar Reid had discussed 
much of the material in Lipman's story, 
including the four examples she cited 
from his work in the Nrw York". 

Reid has not denied that he use<l 
composites in the stories Lipman cited, 
but he felt 
that Lipman took his 
remark-; out of their proper context. The 
Wall Sturt.fournal article presented such 
statements as "The implication that fact 
is precious isn't important . . . . Readers 
who are factual-minded are the readers 
who arc least important," without men-
tioning the setting in which Reid made 
them. The examples from his work, he 
said in a .July letter to the Nrw York 
Timrs, "were volunteered by me in a 
seminar ... as exceptional cases ... in 
,..,.hich [ had chosen to depart from strict 
factual 
at-curacy. 
rea<;ons 
that. 
while dear to mr. were arguable. argu-
ment being what ·seminars are meant to 
stimulate.~ C:oopen-oncurrcd that Reid 
had prt''~<'ntecl his rearran({l'ment of facts 
as "ddinitdv dt>batable." "He did not 
advonut• t lw use of t-ompo-.itt'" as a<·-
n·ptablt'. 
rt•<·ommended journalistic 
procedure." Cooper said, contr;ory to 
the impression conveyed in Lipman's 
a rticle. 

Lipman denied that her artide was 
bast·d on material from Reid's seminar 
presentation, which other students in the 
class said thev had assumed to be ofT the 
record. Although she first met Reid in 
Cooper's seminar. she said. "Absolutely 
nothing in my.June 18 Wai/Strul.fournal 
article was taken from the class. The ar-
ticle was based on a series of on-the-
record interviews with Mr. Reid con-
ducted in my capacity as a Wall Stmt 
Journal reporter. Every example and 
every Reid quotation in my article 
came from those interviews." 


Yet Cooper believes that Lipman 
would never have b.een able to write her 
article if she had not heard Reid speak 
at Yale. He indicated that when she in-
terviewed Reid subsequently, she in-
troduced herself as a form.er student of · 
Cooper's and that Reid considered their 
conversations an 
extension of the 
seminar's philosophical and theoretical 
discussion. "It's not clear to me that 
Alastair was aware that he was being 
profiled and that Joanne was writing 
about him. If he had known he was go-
ing to be set up for ridicule he would not 
have been so congenial or generous 
with his time." Reid declined to com-· 
menton his interviews with Lipman. 

Lipman's article led to a full-blown 
scandal in the New York journalistic 
community. The New York Times ran a 
front-page news story about Reid, as 
well as. a feature on journalistic use of 
composites and an editorial attacking 
the New Yorker. "The end of the world 
seems near," the Times proclaimed, 
"now that our colleagues at the New 
Yorker, that fountainhead of unhurried 
fact, turn out to tolerate, even to justify, 
fictions masquerading as fact." 

In a memo issued to the staff of the 
New Yorker, editor William Shawn flatly 
denied that the magazine condones the 
use of composites, invented characters 
or altered facts in its non-fiction pieces. 
In using these techniques, Shawn said, 
Reid "violated New Yorker principles" 
and "made a journalistic mistake." 

Joyce Richter, media manager of 
the New Yorker, commented that Lip-
man made an "unfortunate statement" 
when she accused Reid of spending his 
"career" departing from the facts, when 
only four examples were actually in-
volved. Two of the pieces appeared in 
the magazine's "Talk of the Town" sec-
tion, where what Shawn's statement 
termed "characters ~nvented in the spirit 
of fun" are permissible and assumed to 
be understood as fictional by the 
magazine's readers. A third article cited 
by Lipman was a 1961 "Letter from 
Barcelona" in which Reid moved a 
scene from a friend's living room to a 
"small, flyblown bar by the harbor " in 
order to protect his sources from repri-
sals during the Franco regime. Richter 
said that it is acceptable New Yorker · · 
practice to protect a source in this man-
ner and that Reid stated that he 
camouflaged scenes to respect people's 
privacy in several of his stories about 
Spain. She said Reid's only real error 
had been in the fourth of Lipman's ex-
amples, where a conversation with a 
Spanish cab driver was transplanted 
from one cab ride to another. 

Adam Liptak '84, a 
student in 
Cooper's seminar and former editor of 
the Yale Daily News Magazine, said "Reid 
was crucified for what was a relatively 
min or transgression." He believes that 
had Reid not been at ·the New Yorker, 
there would have been no scandal and 
that the desire to deflate the magazine's 
self-importance led to what he called in 
a letter to the Times the "malicious New 
Yorker-bashing that went on in the wake 
of this affair on the part of an entire pro-
fession." 

"I don't think Joanne knew how juicy 
the story was until later, when the Times 
picked it up," Liptak commented. Still,. 
by omitting the context of the seminar 
from her article, he said, "She did Reid 
a serious disservice and made him look 
worse than he deserved to look." 

Cooper pointed out the irony that 
although Lipman attacked Reid's ambi-
guity about his sources, she had failed 
to disclose the sources of her own art-
icle. 

Because the intention of the 
seminar was to provide "uninhibited, 
robust, provocative discussion," Cooper 
said Lipman should have indicated it as 
a source of her story. He also noted that 
when he gave the seminar previously, 
in 1980 and 1981, Reid gave essentially 
the same talk, using some of the same 
examples from his work. 

Along with Cooper, several students 
in the seminar expressed their concern 
that the Reid incident might inhibit 
future guest speakers from coming to 
Yale or at least from speaking freely 
here. Abby Burman, JE '86, said, 
"Cooper's seminar was great because it 
got down to the nitty-gritty. If there had 
been restraints, it wouldn't have been as 
good." 
-Marilynn Sager


A~ lttfGHI~~LM 
NO[l>QRS!U~W XYl. 
• 
A~ 
JC 
~~~LII 
NO 
TU~~XYZ. 
. 
C you soon at 
942 Chapel St. 
on the Green 
776-3926 
-
open 1 0-5:30 


ROSEY'S 
TAILORS & CLEANERS 
Est. 1888 
82 Wall Street 
562-8336 
• Custom Alteration 
- - -
• Re-Waterproofing 
• Sweaters Repaired 
• Down Garments Cleaned 
• Chamois Elbows 
• Suede & Leather Cleaning 
• Zippers Repaired 


No extra charge for 
dinners put up to take out. 
Genuine Cantonese Cooking 
NMT BTOtJLJUXI:'P. Wha/~ 
787-9697 
140 HOWE STREET 



**Title: To Think or Not To Think**
**Author: Tony Rees**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Maybe I think too much for my own good,
&me people say so, other people say no, no
The fact is you don't think as much as you
could.
-Paul Simon
I thjnk too much. Most Yalies do. Is
there any doubt that our university is
overzealously cerebral when the
geographic,
intellectual and social
center of campus is a cathedral of
knowledge whose altar is labeled "Cir-
culation"?
People expect us to be brilliant.
When strangers learn that I go to Yale,
they inevitably ask my SA Ts or beg,
"Say something smart." Some people,
however, see through our facade. I had
a Southern friend whose unc.le took him
around Alabama saying, "This here's
my nephew. He's going to Yay-ell. Up
there, they teach you to say 'inn-cret-
tible.' Instead of just 'bool-shee-it."' He
was impressed nonetheless.
To justify the world's belief in our in-
telligence, we overindulge in thought.
It becomes an act of self-preservation.
Everyone else is doing it, so hadn't we
better keep up? We rabidly think but
forget how to conclude. As good liberal
arts students, so well-fitted for careers
a..s defense lawyers, we can conscien-
tiously and competently argue both
sides of every question, but think too
much to be able to choose an opinion of
our own.

Thinking too much is a process of
continual and deepening rationaliza-
tion, analysis and questioning. "Should
I really have blown off the whole after-
noon talking to my roommates? I need-
ed a break from studying. I'll be more
efficient tonight now,
I
promise.
Besides, I can learn from them. But are
those the real reasons?· Are they valid?
Maybe I really did it
because I'm
young and felt like it. Maybe I should


resolve to avoid the room whenever
people are there. Should I reo.lry avoid
the room?" The circle goes unproduc-
tively on and on.

Guilt prevails. I feel terrible about
those ten other poor devils who could be
enrolled here instead of me. One of
them probably could have arbitrated a
successful union settlement by now,
another could have engineered a way to
keep the sense in Centrex. My over-
thinking breeds insecurity- will the sky
sp~ak to me outside Yale Station one
day, saying "You're a computer error.
Please vacate your room in 24- hours" ?(I
had a friend who used to call random
freshmen up and give that exact
message, reducing some of them to
tears. He didn't think enough.)

Our insecurity causes a repression of
spontaneity and enthusiasm. Yalies all
know what an intellectual, sophisticated
group we're supposed to be. No over-
thinker wants to say or do anything that
makes him look naive: "Have a rela-
tionship with you? Let's first discuss the
feasibility of that in light of our respec-
tive expectations," or "Sign a petition?
Come on, all that political rhetoric
doe.m't really mean anything."

Yale teaches us the safety of Nega-
tion. We learn how to refute, forgetting
that it takes more courage to substan-
tiate and sustain a belief over time. The
study of the history of thought, so
popular with the seriously cerebral, in-
stills this habit in us. We understand
and agree with Plato, then Aristotle
refutes him. Hume makes sense, then
Kant, our new favorite, obliterates his
arguments. We follow these models and
never agree with anyone. When yo,u
think about it, how many times have
you heard a Yalie say "That's a good
point" without adding, "hut"?

In our schoolwork we edit ourselves
~ as closely as possible to give ourselves
... the best chance of earning approval.
~ We censor our own thoughts and
i speech to avoid
being considered
~ callow. We also af:Jologize for ourselves
and our work apead of time in order to
outshine others in criticizing ourselves
incisively. We preface papers with notes
to TAs-"This isn't exactly what I
wanted to say, but I trietf'-and self-
deprecate to our friends- "You may
think I'm self-centered and silly to ask,
but do you like my hair?" We conscien-
tiously deflate possible critics by beating
them to the punches aimed at us.

The overthinker works overtime the
night before a paper's due. After over-
thinking a topic, a conclusion and an
outline (the process can take up to four
weeks for the pathologically cerebral) he
begins to overthink each sentence.
"That sounds terrible!" he says, resting
his forehead on the typewriter in
despair. "I'm not doing my best. I'm an
underachiever, I don't deserve oxygen.
I should be expressing what I have to
say better; I'm not living up to my
potential. Everyone else_ can obviously


excel here, but I'm not doing my best.
I'm an underachiever;" Total paralysis
sets in. after two complete cycles of
thought. ·

Things don't improve for the over-
thinker even after the paper is returned
and graded. A spiral· of pessimism traps-
him as if he were a tissue in the flushing
toilet of academic neurosis. "I got a B on
my last paper after working extra hard.
I'll have to spend more time next time.
But if that's the best I can do, why
bother?" Self-conscious A students can
-
carry this further : "I did well only
because I _ b.s.'d well," one Phi Beta
Kappa thinks. "I wasn't stunning, and I
didn't really learn anything or say
anything, did I?"

No one's ever satisfied. That's one of
the main tenets of human existence. If
we were, the whole universe could grind
to a standstill. Especially here, where
our dissatisfaction with our own ig-
norance employs a large percentage of
the city. But since we're used to being
satisfied with our places on the top of
the pile in high school, we refuse to be
satisfied with less than the best. In this
pool of big fish, we no longer compete
against our classmates
but against
ourselves,
our
perfect
ideals of
ourselves. One overthinker in a class of
mine freshman year, for example,
dropped a class at tnidterm, unhappy
wltf1 his A- average. By senior year, the
blatant cerebralite either has a job lined
up at Morgan Stanley, a full scholarship
to law school, or the conviction that he
is a total failure. Only best and most is
good enough.

There is a limi~ to this, though. Exain
time arrives and people answer my
cheerful "How are you"s _with ''Three
20-page papers, four finals and a
lab due." Dinner time conversation
~omes one long bout ·of one-upman-
ship, each of us trying our hardest tp
•
appear The Most Overworked. It can't
be done . . Who really wants the title
anyway, when the only . way to secure
the crown is to end up on your back in
DUH with a bad case of the nerves?

That's usually good for a dean's excuse
anyway, which erases the pressure, and
with it all that glory and attention.

When the going gets tough here,
prioritize. You need fewer hours of
sleep
and definitely fewer hours of
thinking. Subsistence is key: "I think_
therefore I am" becomes "I think as little
as possible just to keep myself going."

It's too scary to get in the bind of
overthinking and overrationalizing
every move. Paralysis results: "What
should I have for dinner?" I ask myself.
"The meat with brown sauce probably
has fewer calories and more vitamins
and iron. The sauce, however, may be
last week's butterscotch pudding in
disguise. There's always Swiss Cheese
Souffle, but I was warned against three-
word dishes, especially if one of the
words
is Cheese- Cheese-Rice
Casserole, Cheddar Cheese Fondue,
etc." Meanwhile
the college starves
l;>ehind me in line, and I settle for salad.

Soon we begin to avoid thought
altogether. Look what it does to us-we
lose sleep, we lose friends, we lose
perspective when we spend too much
energy on our work, which after all is
seen by no one save a professor or two.
We don't want to know that we're blow-
ing off an intimate after-dinner conver-
sation in favor of a study session which
could conceivably make the difference
between an A and an A-. We have -
every reason !O put our minds in
neutral. Or so we think.


Despite our fear and subsequent re-
jection of thought, we still have to fu,nc-
tion in class, so we rely on bluffi-ng pur
way through, · the most valuable skill
this place teaches us. Unfortunately
those who fear and avoid thinking too
much tend to be loud and obnoxious.
Most of their insecurities have been
consolidated into their fear of thinking
and thus, rather than censor their com-·
ments for public approval, they blurt
out whatever comes into their heads.
"We'll come back to this," says the
underthinker in the grating and in-
gratiating voice of a
television
newscaster, "but what I want to discuss
now is how I think Nietzsche is very
edifying on this topic ... " _

Those who avoid thought face trou-
ble when it comes to real life issues. The
.
incoming senior, sick of six semesters of
overthinking, asks himself, "What am I
going to be when I grow up in nine
months?" and decides it is easier to
follow the crowd to the rat race's star-
ting line than to ans~er that question in
the privacy of his own head.

We're spinning our wheels here in an
academic grist of papers and unan-
chored ideas. Our thoughts are trained
to circle and go deeper. We leave this
pJace with lots of ptactice in thinking,
but that's all it is
practice. What's
next? Answering this question requires
forward motion powered by another
species of thinking.

Should we worry that the pattern of
·
· g leading to fear of thinking
leading to avoidance of
goes
even further? Does fear of
g too
little out of fear of thinking too much
cause even deeper overthinking? I think
too much.

Reese, a junior in
i~
ofTN]
ThC opinaons cxp• c:•w:d in this K--..tion are
wtiter.
• IS
o( the jrvfividuaJ
The
e w J ournaVSeptember 7, 1984


**Title: Sharing the Wealth of Words**
**Author: Lisa Chang**
**Page number(s): 12**

"l r it clear what it mean? To 'plo.y tht dit
at the Thai-Cambodia border?"' tht studmt
a1ks, smiling.

"Not really Do .YOU mean that cross in.~ the
border involved chance like the chance in a
game '!f dice?n

Wo, not like. I Tfal(-; pla-;td "!Y l!ft.
Everybody, at iht bordtr, pla,y the lift. (f you
cm1 1, you win. (f. you carmot to cross, thm
you murl to die. In tht Chineu has the pro-·
-utrh, 'Do you want to live your life like the
die'' /r it make rmu now?"

The door i-; open at 295 Crown Street.
The: old hrown three-story house, oc-
cupied
hy
the
Asian-American
Stud<·nts' As'!ociation (AASA) and the
Movimicntc> Estudiantil Chicano de
Aztlan (MEChA), fares a parking
t·ompkx and the Madison Towers
Apartments.

Voices with Chinese, Laotian , Vtet-
namcse and Korean accents mingle in
the front haiL On the bulletin hoard to
the right of the front
door are
photographs of Asian children and of
groups of hoth Asian and Occidental
adult~. A leaOet set among the photos
announces the AASA-sponsored pro-
gram:

Asian Community Services, Inc.
The Ass<Kiation for Chinese and
Southt•ast Asian Refugees

The front rooms are filled with Yale
students and Asians of all ages. Even-
tually do'lc to 50 people disperse
throughout the building. Its small
rooms hous<· the English-as-a-Second-
Lan'{uag<· (ESL) tutoring program
whic·h
meets for two hours each
wt•kcnd morning.

The parlor to the right of the en-
tram·e is sparsely furnished with sev-
eral wooden chairs, a worn brown
c·mKh and faded curtains. Here several
t•lclt-rly
Chinese·
and
Vietnamese
womcn "quat on the recently varnished
lloor. Dorothy Rony, DC '85, Indone-
sian hy descent, leads the women in a
..;urvival En'{lish drilL

"I see," she says, raising her brows,
"with my eyes." The women bashfully
say the sounds after her. Dorothy
repeats with a "come again" gesture of
her hands, "I" (pointing to herself)
"!lee" (widening her eyes) "wi~h my
eyes" (pointing to them). Occastonally
the exercise dissolves into laughter.
Nevertheless the women continue until
they have connected meanings with
sounds.

In the adjoining room, pictures on
sheets of newsprint have been taped
along the walls like clothes hung out to
dry. Partho Ghosh and Carol Yoon,
hoth MC '85, are watching a group of
children ranging in age from 20
months to 12 years. With a four-year-
old Laotian boy Carol recites the
alphabet in a pleasing, reedy voice
almost as high as his. Ghosh is of In-
dian descent, Yoon of Chinese and
Korean. They help supervise the Asian
Community Services (ACS) daycare
program. Both
were interested _in
becoming involved with a commumty
education program while at Yale,
preferably with children. For them and
25 other student tutors. the program
<:an enhanc-e the work they do in their
m~jor field~. a'l diverst• a'! East A'lian
Studies,
Epidemiology and
Public
Health, Linguistics, Education, and
Social Work.

Across the front hall in a large, half-
retiled room, several people sit at a
long confen:nce table. Howard Cheng,
ES '87, talks with Lam Tin, a 32-year-
old Chinese-Cambodian immigrant.
"What kinds of things do you like to do
in your free time?" Cheng asks.

Lam grimaces briefly, raises his
brows and breaks into a smile. "I like
the photography, you know, and to
travel and take the picture. I love to
read the book-all book, Chinese and
English. Sometime I like to write, to
translate- especially the Chinese pro-
verb."

Lam has been coming to ACS for
two years. R ecently he has enrolle~
part-time at South Central Commum-
ity College. "Now I take the night
classes. Sometime, in the class I get the
questions, I need someone explain the
word or the idea. The class is big, and I
don't want to stop. It is difficult to
speak so quickly when I get confusion.
Here, I think it is informal, and more
comfortable, not t«?? much pressure. I
can talk with my" tutor about the
homeworks."

Cheng began tutoring as a
] freshman. He came to this country
-" from Hong Kong when he was in
• seventh grade, settling with his family
! in Los Angeles. UCLA ran a program
! similar to ACS. Cheng breaks into a
i
... wide smile when he says, "My tutor
was a great guy. H e was more like a
j big brother. I felt more comfortable
around him than around most other
I Americans my age." Cheng feels ACS
can
be
a
r.ewarding emotional
t'Ommitment. "We can do so much just
to help people feel at home, com-
fortable -
to be a friend. just to
talk and listen."

-Mr. Quian, an ACS client
Down the front hall the kitchen
shared by both MEChA and AASA
students is used for tutoring as well.
Sun streams into the cool room from
the window over the sink. Phengta



**Title: Asian Community Support**
**Author: Lisa Chang**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Borivong, a 33-year-old veteran of the 
loyalist Laotian army, studies a home 
electricity manual. Speaking in a per-
cussive tenor with a heavy accent, he 
explains to his tutor, "I am training for 
new job in m achine shop. Have to study 
the 
basic 
math. 
I 
got 
ques-
tion-can you please explain me, how 
you write in number, 'three hundred 
thousandths?"' They continue discuss-
ing vocabulary from the manual. 

The steep, creaking stairs lead to the 
second noor containing several rooms, 
some no larger than big broomclosets. 
Phengta's wife Bounpha, whom he 
married in Laos before the Southeast 
Asian wars, has been coming to ACS 
with their three young children for 
over a year to meet her K orean-
American 
tutor 
Heiwon, 
a 
Yale 
senior . At a wood desk by a dusty win-
dow, 
two 
look 
at 
Bounpha's 
vocabulary homework from the adult 
education class she attends in D erby. 
The two also use the classified section 
of the New Havm Register to improve 
vocabulary and keep up with job op-
portunities. 

From a list of words Bounpha asks 
the meaning of"ditch." The tutor says, 
"When you wanted to bring water from 
the river to the crops, but the river was 
too far away, you might have dug" (she 
mimes the action of digging) "a ditch 
from the river to the fields." Bounpha 
laughs. "I see." She had come from an 
agricultural province in Laos. 

"I'm happy that I can give her prac-
tical help," H eiwon explains. "She has 
told me about going to the bank and 
not understanding when the teller ask-
ed for her initials. The teller became 
impatient and Bounpha got confused. 
So every new word she learns to use 
becomes such a concrete a nd ap-
plicable bit of knowledge. She wants to 
Improve her ability to communicate 
with co-workers at her factory and peo-
ple at her children's school." 

Down the hall toward the back of the 
house, two women leaf through an art 
history book. The student, Linda Tin, 
petite 
24-vear-old Chinese-
Cambodian, has recently immigrated 
to New H aven from the Kaoidanl{ 
refugee camp in Thailand. She is 
working toward a degree from South 
Central Community College. 
H er 
English, 
which 
she 
learned 
in 
dialogues with a pastor in the camp. is 
clear and comprehensible after less 
than a year in the United States. She 
ha' turned to Kandinsk, ·, 1nf' U.'aln{aJI 
The tutor <t'k' her ''h' sh(· likes. tht• 
painting. 

"It's like life- so many different col-
ors put together in different ways. This 
man know the life. Some people praise 
the life and some abuse the life. Why? 
Just because they live in different 
''avs . 

.:In Asia, a big problem is the in-
nuence of \\Testern culture on society. 
Now many children are learning to 
become independent, and this huns 
their parents. In Cambodia and many 
other countnes of Asian culture 
children do not leave home. Parents 
help educate their children, and old 
people taik so much to the young peo-
ple. 

"My parents always wanted us to get 
the good education, and ~e wouid 
have left Cambodia to find the good 
education. Because of the war, we did 
·not get to finish school." Alluding to 
forced labor in Pol Pot's camps and 
forty-kilometer compulsory marches, 
she says. "My people have seen the hell 
of life. 

"A person who live in the heaven of 
life may say 'Life is so sweet' and the 
person who livt· in the hdl of life may 
"ay 'Lilt• i" so bittt•r.' Tht· life has for-
tunes and unfortunes, sour. sweet. bit-
ter and hot mix up liule by little. 

"I lovt' the art, becaust• it shows the 
different attitudt•s of life. This paint in~ 
is like the life, so bright, and not so 
perfect.~ 

Across the hall the ACS advanced 
conver!i,ttion class meets. t-:SL instrut·-
tor \ 'icki Lee. a 3 1-year-old American . 
sits. at a round table among st•vt·n 
Chmcst• men and womc.-n. Debating a ' 
world population article from TimL, the 
members of the< las . 
.<1 speak in slow hut 
smooth English. 

Says Lee of tht• dass, "Tht· studt·nts 
who attt>nd this dass bring a fairly 
good reading knowledge of Engli~h·. 
The>· exchange impres,ions of this 
cou.mry and vigncucs of t•vcryday t•x-
penence. In class I help them with 
Th .. :'\l'"' .Juurn.lli&prrmlwr 7. 19Ri 


--- Page 14 ---

**Title: Yale's Colossal Cosmetic**
**Author: Anne Applebaum and Tony Reese**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Think about lipstick. 
It comes in 
many colors. You can buy it, use it, 
throw it away. Now imagine a three-
and-a-half ton, 22-foot tall fiberglass 
and aluminum lipstick perched on steel 
tank treads. 
Put it in the middle of 
Yale University. 
What can you do 
with it? Suddenly you can't use it and 
you certainly can't throw it away. 
What does it mean? 
The giant lipstick resting peacefuily 
in Morse College indicates little of the 
tumult that accompanied its creation 
15 years ago. No longer standing in 
defiance, it has become Morse's totem, 
and much of the history and meaning 
behind it has been forgotten by the 
students who gather for intramural 
games or sunbathe near it. 


It was the year before coeducation 
began, the year before the May Day 
riots. T he Vietnam War had brought 
political activism to college campuses. 
At Yale the School of Architecture was 
a center of unrest. There was pressure 
for a broader curriculum and a de-
mand for architects to become more in-
volved in the lives of cities and the 
hardships of people pushed out of their 
homes by urban expansion. 


Another issue within the school was 
financial aid. 
"There were many 
students actually living below the 
poverty level at the time," said Sam 
Callaway, '64, M. Arch. '69, "and no 
financial aid was being made available 
to them. Many of us felt the professors 
should be behind the movement to 
help the students, and when they 
weren't they lost a lot ot respect." 


Arch itecture students had already 
displayed their discontent by burying 
an effigy in the· Noguchi sculpture well 
of Beinecke Library. 
Some people 
suspect them of setting the J une 1969 
fire 
in the Art and 
Architecture 
Building which caused $700,000 in 
damages. 


The mood of the times was radical 
and the art was Pop. A leading con-
temporary artist was sculptor Claes 
Oldenburg '50 already well-known in 
1968. H e had broken ground with the 
Ray G un Machinery Co., a "store" 
that operated for two months and sold 
replicas of food and ord inary objects 
made out of cloth, plaster and chicken 
wire. He had also gained prominence 
for his soft sculpture, large objects 
made of canvas and stuffed with foam, 
such as a 10-foot long ice-cream cone, a 
giant typewriter and a full-scale car. 


O ldenburg's latest interest was in 
"colossal monuments." His drawings 
for such works included a giant teddy 
bear for Central Park, a toilet-tank 
float for London's Thames River and a 
huke Good Humor Bar for Park 
Avenue. None of these sculptures had 
been built, and Oldenburg considered 
most of them unfeasible. 


Stuart Wrede '65, M. Arch. '70, 
developed more than a passing interest 
in Oldenburg's colossal monuments 
when he interviewed Herbert Mar-
cuse, a prominent spokesman for the 
New Left, in j une 1968. "Ifyou could 
really envisage a situation where ... 
there would be ... in the middle of 
Times Square a huge banana I would 
say- and I think safely say- this socie-
ry has come to an end," Marcuse said. 
"I think it would be one of the most 
bloodless means to achieve a radical 
change ... just imagine that over-
night it would suddenly be there." 


Wrede shared the idea of realizing 
an Oldenburg m!imument with some of 
his fellow students~ Not all appreciated 
the potential for instant revolution in 
Directors of the Colossal Keepsake Corporation, from left to right: Gordon Thorne, Charles Brewer, Bob 
Coombs, John Allen, Claes Oldenburg, Danny Goodrich, Stuart Wrede, Vincent Scully and Sam Callaway 


Oldenburg's monuments, but live did 
see them as a way to express their 
discontent with the art and architec-
ture schools. They h~·gan to work with 
\\'rNie to ac·quirc an Oldenburg for 
Yale·. 


w\\'c• all had our o'" n reasons," ex-
plairwd Gordon Thorne. M FA. '69. 
"Yale• was c·hooo;in!{ to anc•pt gifto; and 
take o,·c·r propt•rtv in l\:e'" Haven 
bast'd on nrH·ri,t th,u pc:oplc didn't 
neccs..,aril\ 
<Kn·pt 
Yale• '' a'i dis-
tlin~ the Paul Mc·llon blcKk to 
""a' for that mon'itrosity Jthe 
ish Art Cc·ntt·r]. The block was 
: it housed a lot of low-rent ar-
ture studios. \'\'c thought, 'H ow 
we probe Yal<·'s polidcs?' Give 
something rt ob"iou•dy doesn't 
:Want but which has ob" io us a rri•>tic 
1falue." 


"\\'e ''ere a group of people looking 
for a way to say in a nonvroknt way 
the ~arne thing that was bein!-{ <>aid by 
violence," explained Callaway. " It was 
a protest. not o nly against th<· war· but 
about a lot of things at Yak." 


"Yale was verv conscnatin· .11 the 
time," remarked Oldcnburf.{. 
wEn·n 
the radicals who ''ere doing this wert· 
considered conservati\ c. 
The nlO"t 
radical people thou~ht they should be· 
concentrating their energies on dirc·n 
political action. not di<><orpating thc·m 
throul.{h art." 


The students approached Olden-
burg and expressed their inlnc·st . w\\'c· 
had manv discussion<> with him and 
found he ~ould help us exprc·o;s what we· 
wanted to express." said Callaway. wHl' 
went right to work. It was an oppor-
tunity for him in the art world." 


Together ''ith Oldenburl( 
.md 
History of Art Prole-.sors \. rnc·c•nt 
.Snrllv 
and 
Charll's 
Rr-ewtT. 
tht· 
studt•nts fornwcl tht• Colossal Kn•p.,akt• 
Corporation of Connt•ctinrt (CKCC) 
to clonah· a monument to Yak. Fir·.,t. 
thou~h. tlwy rwe<kd a colossal monu-
~twnt , and tht·v would han· to pa,· li1r 
rt 
Oldenbur~ al{rn·d to donatt· hi<> 
tinw and dt·,i~n. but tht· nmstruc·tion 
c·cht 
n·mairwd. The 
studt•nts 
ap-
prom hc·d architen Phillip .John-.on. 
"ho had plannt•d Klinc· Riolo.._rv T n\HT 
.tnd \'\as known. amon~.t othc·; thint.t'· 
for his 19'll and J<l64 addition' to thc· ' 
!\1uwum of :\1cxkrn Art in ;\;e,, Yorl... 
wHc·" wa~ thc• backn who mack it JXls-.i-
bl_t> o;arcl Thorm·. thnu~h funclrai,in~ 
dlort'\, 
c oncluned undc·n·o,Tr 
to 
prcst'rH' thc· projec t'<o o;c•c·rt·c,. j(,uncl 4-6 
donor-. and <oc·n•n spon-.ors. J.rppin-
c-ott, Inc· .• a fabrinuin~.t firm in ;\iorth 
Han•n "ith "hom the sculptor ha(l 
"orkc·d pre\ iouslr. at.trn·d to build tlw 
Tht· !'.t·" JnumotliSq>H·onbt-r 7. t <1114 


The fUIIMI~--.;iloiiiO.
structure at cost. One of the legendary 
colossal monuments was now feasible. 


Oldenburg came to New Haven a 
number of times to select a site and 
subject; various ideas were considered, 
including dropping small monuments 
from the air onto Cross Campus and 
creating a giant {Toothpastej Tube Being 
Stepped On. He explained one inspira-
tion for the lipstick sculpture at the 
time: "I found a long orange balloon 
fluttering from the antenna of a parked 
car as I stood contemplating [Beinecke 
Plaza). The balloon seemed huge, 
bouncing against the paternal cla<>sical 
and Egyptian edifices. Just what the 
place needs, I thought." Lipstick -...as 
already a somewhat prominent motif 
in his work; a 1966 drawing replaced 
the Fountain of Eros in London's Ptc-
cadilly Circus with a collection of 
lipstick tubes. 


CKCC chose the lipstick over the 
{Toothpastej Tube in early spring 1969 
and Oldenburg began construction. 
He worked out of a studio on State 
Street and his deadline was May 15, 
Ascension Day. The lipstick tip would 
be inflatable by an air pump in the 
base, and the common man could par-
ticipate in the sculpture by pumping it 
up. Oldenburg suggested an inflated 
lipstick could be a.~ignal that a speech 
or gathering was to be held underneath 
it. 


By May 13 the Corporation had run 
out of money and the lipstick was un-
finished. 
Cheaper materials 
were 
substituted, and the 
students 
themselves completed the remaining 
parts on time. But even before the 
lipstick was ready, installing it posed a 
problt"m. University officials, along 
with nearly the entire campus, knew 
nothing of the monument. Should it be 
brought in by helicopter? In the middle 
of the night? Eventually CKCC deci-
ded to make the installation a Happen-
ing, an event which could become a 
work of art in itself. .. As Lippincott 
gavt" the monument three-dimensional 
form," Callaway explained, "we real-
ized it was a symbol that would have 
meaning outside the art and architec-
ture schools. We wanted to find a way 
for people to rally around it." 

**Title: Lipstick (Ascending) on Caterpillar Tracks**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Sketches from Oldenburg's 1969 notebooks. 
However, the group realized the 
dangers of organizing a crowd. "It 
wasn't a time to mess around lightly 
:ith a mass gathering," said Thorne. 
Yale was very gun shy; we respected 
that. We wanted to creal<' a situation 
that would be disarming for the ad· 
ministration and the spectators, so 
they wouldn't know what to do but 
they'd have a good time." 


Scully told h is classes, "Noon Thurs· 
day. Reinecke Plaza. Something will 
happen." Suspicious posters appeared 
and word spread through the colleges. 
Scully knew the administration was 
worried when U niversity Secretary 
Reuben Holden called to ask what was 
planned. "They were nervous." Scully 
recalled . "I reassured them. I told them 
they were in for a wonderful surprise." 


By noon nearly I 000 people had 
gathered. Two A ll-Rite Sanitation Ser· 
vice trucks arrived at 12:45 with an 
assortment of odd metal objects. Some 
architecture students carried them to 
the center of the plaza while others 
distributed a poster,. a special issue of 
Novum 
0,-ttanum, 
an 
architecture 
students' publication . Oldenburg 
directed the monument's assembly. 
occasionally speaking to reporters. "I 
haven't interpreted it yet. I j ust built 
it," 
he said. "I'm 
sure it 
meant 
something." 


The steel base, its plywood treads 
painted red, was taken off its casters 
and put in place. The telescopin~~; tube 
was fitted to the base and erected with 
difficulty; 
to 
some observers 
the 
students straining to raist' it seemed to 
parody the lwo Jima war monument. 
"Wait till you see the top." Scully said. 
"It's full of force. It's really like a rocket 
to M ars. It's kinda great." 


The red inflatable tip was attached 
to the tube and O ldenburg connected 
the air tank. "It may lean slightly," he 
had warned, "but that's true also of the 
Tower of Pisa." The tip was inflated 
and the Colossal Keepsake Corpora· 
tion of Connecticut had completed the 
insta llation of O ldenburg's first w l-
ossal monu ment, Lipstick (A scmdinf!) on 
Catrrplila,- Tra.rks. 


While the moment was histo ril·al for 
the art world, it was somewhat unc·om-
"I haven't interpreted it yet, I just built it. fm sure it 
meant something." 


**Yale Repertory Theatre 1984/85 Season**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yale Repertory Theatre 
1984/85 Season 
September 18 • October q 
Tartuffe by Moliere 
Hilarious fast-paced classic comedy 
October 2.} • November 17 
Henry IV Part One by William Shakespeare 
Buffoonery . . . . Honor . . . and Bloodshed 
November 2.7 • December 2.2. 
A Play Of Giants by Wole Soyinka 
World Premiere 
Gripping intrigue·. a satire of power 
January 14 • February 9 
Wintefest V 
Vital plays by new playwrights 
bring you face to face with the future! 
February 19 • March 16 
What The Butler Saw by joe Orton 
Bawdy and brassy 20th century farce 
March 2.6 • April 2.0 
The Blood Knot .by Athol Fugard 
20th Anniversary Production 
Emodonal, tender, yet savage resurrection 
of friendship 
April }O • May 2.s 
Fences by August Wilson 
World Premiere by the author of electrifying 
M.A RAINEY'S BLACK BOTIOM. Poignant family tale 
Student Passbook 
8 plays for S38! 
Present any valid student 1.0. 
ACT NOW! 436-1600 
22 Tlw N1•w .Ju urnu i/SqH<·rnll<'r 7, 1!184 


he was on leave. Upon his return he 
immediately offered Morse as a home 
for the itinerant Lipstick. A petition cir-
culated in the college indicated student 
approval of the offer. At the same 
time, Smith College showed an interest 
in Lipstick, but could not compete with 
Yale's bid. 

Oldenburg was understandably 
hesitant to return the monument to 
Yale after the treatment it had received 
before. 

Brewster was also 
unen-
thusiastic, saying he would not object if 
a site ,(or the sculpture could be found 
("though he said it wasn't his favorite 
piece of sculpture and he'd been told by 
people it was a practical joke at Yale's 
expense," Shestack said.) Twenty-five 
donors gave nearly $15,000 to pay for 
rebuilding the 
monument. The 
original fiberglass tip was retained, but 
the aluminum tube and the steel base 
were refurbished and the crumbling 
plywood treads remade in steel. 

LipsticJCs second reception differed 
markedly from its first. The University 
had 
never formally 
accepted"'- the 
original monument; now it had per· 
suaded 'the artist to restore it, paid for 
the work, accepted the gift through the 
Art Gallery, and staged an exhibit 
there in commemoration of the new 
gift. "I was very happy with the change 
in reaction," Oldenburg said. "It said 
something about whllf' the first installa-
tion had accomplished." 

October 17, 197 4 was Ascension 
Day for Lipstick. A group of students 
put a large plastic pair of lips next to 
the sculpture, many of the men wore 
lipstick in honor of the occasion and 
the Yale band played. "I thought it was 
the most beautiful thing I'd ever seen," 
said Scully, who had wanted to put the 
sculpture on the hill, threatening the 
dining hall. Oldenburg spoke to the 
gathering from 
the base 
of his 
sculpture, removing his shoes out of 
respect. "I hope you'll take your shoes 
ofT when you ruse it as a speaker's plat-
form]." He joked, "I'm very happy 
you're going to take care of this 
because I can't fit it into my loft. Here, 
it turns on the sky." 

Most of those involved with the 
originaJ Lipstick are pleased with its 



**Lipstick on the Yale Campus**
**Author: Anne Applebaum and Tony Reese**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

relocation in Morse. For Scully the 
scale of the monument is better there; 
"it was not quite colossal enough for 
Beinecke," he said. Its artistic value is 
also secure. "Great art makes you 
think. 
It jolts you out of your 
surroundings. People who don't want 
to be jolted don't like Lipstick." 

"When I first heard [it was to be 
reinstalled] I felt relief," Callaway said. 
"I was glad to see it put back in com-
mission. It was done by an eminent 
artist who deserves serious treatment, 
and it is an important little piece of 
Yale lore." 

But for Lipstick the relocation to 
Morse reflects more than a geographic 
change. "The move totally changes and 
loses the original meaning," Thorne 
said in 1974. "It can be revived, but in 
the process is transformed into some-
thing else . . . It's definitely not the 
same monument anymore." 

Lipstic~s revival and survival as a 
new sculpture is part of its artistic 
value. "Its meanings never end," said 
History of Art Professor Susan Cas-
teras. "It's not limited by those it had in 
previous generations." Cas teras notes, 
though, that Lipstick and the attitudes 
about 
it 
point out 
the 
marked 
depoliticization of the campus. "(In 
1969] the Yale student ... revealed 
his vulnerability by openly proclaim-
ing his protests of and challenges to 
prevailing conditions, but now," she 
wrote in 1974, "he generallychooses to 
retreat into the security of academic 
pursuits." The kinds of events that 
have surrounded Lipstick since it was 
placed in Morse are just as revealing, 
she now believes. "It's the site of 
fashion layouts, 
prom antics and 
pranks," she said. "In its own way, it 
now betokens a different attitude 
toward Yale." 

Lipstick has lost its ties to concerns of 
financial aid and housing the poor. "It 
seems to be more like a mascot now," 
Wrede said, "or a Pop joke. T imes 
have changed." 

• 
Anne Applebaum, a junior in Pi"son, is 
Associate Editor of TN]. Tony Reese, a 
junior in Branford, is Managing Editor of 
TNJ. 


**Have You Hugged Your Cop Today?**
**Author: Joyce Banerjee**
**Page number(s): 24**

Joyce Banerjee 
W e're the boys out tom:f?ht 
Not afraid to show our m~~ht 
Put us down but we don't care 
'Cuz we know we are rz?,ht 
F~f?ht bn, Frf.ht ~m 
F~f?hl 'em all 
- Iron Cross, 1982 

Armed with aerosol paint cans, Damon 
Ortega and two of his friends visited the 
Beinecke wall early one .July morning. 
As Damon played the l<x>kout, the 
others began spray painting on a large 
section of granite facing Berkdl'y Col-
lq{c. In a few minutes they tinished 
their· note, a six word jab in gn·en and 
black Krylon: Have You Hugged Your 
Cop T oday? 

Damon and his cohorts had little time 
to t•njoy their atlack on alleged police 
haras-;ment, 
as 
Yak offict'rs 
ar-
rested them only thirty feet from their 
worksite, spray cans still in hand. Charged 
with criminal mischief. liftcen-year-old 
Damon plans to plead inncx:t'nt to the 
actual painting. He· awaits his hearing 
with some apprehension and ha-; put off 
gt·tt ing a long-desired mohawk to avoid 
offending the judge. Meanwhile the 
Becky, Glynis, Damon and Mike hang out on Cross Campus 
24 The 
ew .Journai/Septeml>er 7. 1984 
foot-tall letters have been scrubbt·d off. 
leaving a trail of bla<:k blotcht·s on the 
stone. 

Although a 
few 
manhours from 
Maintenance erased tht' writing, tht• 
sentiments and the hardcore tn·nagers 
n:main. Because of its· centralized loca-
tion and relative safety. the Yale area 
has•!ong served as the corner· malt shop 
for 
the denim-jacketed and black-
booted 
high-schoolers. 
The "punk 
rockers" sunbathe on Cross Campus. 
the "cores" skatt·board on .Broadway and 
sit on the warm grates along \I\' all Stn·ct 
in the winter. 


**Title: New Haven Hardcore**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Dressed in all their hardware they 
seem to be participating in a social 
movement born long ago and far a~ay 
from New Haven. While the local kids 
with their strange haircuts and torn 
clothing physically 
resemble their 
radical 
British predecessors, 
the 
ideological similarities are few. Nevertheless, the cores' visual suggestion of 
anarchy as well as occasional clashes 
with the Yale community have caused 
great friction. The teenagers have trouble with nearly everyone from the Yale 
and New Haven police to students, 
from the proprietors of N a pies to the 
masters of residential colleges. The 
cores have been hanging out at Yale for 
about a year, but a distance remains 
between the people who live and work 
here and the children who visit the cam-pus for several hours a day. Apparently 
this distance will not vanish soon. 
The University's acres of spires and 
courtyards make these high schoolers 
look all the more incongruous, the 
latest in metal and leather juxtaposed 
with 1930s Gothic. The contrast is 
stark: ten boys and girls in combinations of black and grey Salvation Army 
wear gather in Beinecke Plaza in front 
of the University war memorial. Talking and rummaging for cigarettes, the 
kids seem oblivious to passing camera-toting families who, like most people, 
involuntarily take a quick glance at the 
group. 

Despite their regalia 
most of the 
cores still look young, too young according to some to take such drastic steps 
with their bodies and their wardrobes. 
"We represent a defiance of the norm, 
of acceptance," explains fifteen-year-old Claire Bauermeister. Most of her 
hair, save a reddish-brown tuft at the 
forehead, is wrapped in dark cloth. 
Her 
rectangul~r eyebrows and the 
rhinestone in her left nostril make her 
round face look almost exotic. "Our 
clothing is an extension of our personalities. We just don't want to be like 
everybody else." 

Beyond a general sense of nonconformity, few cores dress to make any 
deeper social or political statement. 

Not on MTV 
Unlike the English punks of the mid-seventies, the New Haven kids seldom 
see a connection between mohawks and 
anger. "I dress this way because I like 
the way it looks," says Becky Tupper, 
gazing towards Woodbridge Hall. "It's 
comfortable. There's 
not anything 
behind it for me or for a lot of people." 
"I'm really not into politics," says 
Mike Lawrence, the boy in the Clash 
T-shirt sitting next to Claire. "I guess 
I'm just into having a good time." He 
smiles, showing a mouthful of braces. 
"But it's impossible not to have 
politics behind this," objects Damon, his 
quiet, clenched voice now more 
animated. "There is politics behind 
everything. There are some people, 
though, who are just not very political 
and who don't like to think of what they 
do as mass change." 

President and potent!Your pride and hope
Families build/Christian theocracy instilled
With a sword/Walk with the Lord
& a man/Protect your land
Your life's lost/
Dead on foreign soil
For your God (And their oil)
-"Church and State"
M.D.C. (Millions of Dead Cops!)

Although the New Haven punks often 
remain apart from issues and ideology, 
hardcore music deals substantially with 
war and Reaganism, teenage rebellion 
and rage. According to John Lynch, a 
20-year-old core, the driving, unintelligible music draws kids to hardcore 
by providing an alternative to routine 
FM radio fare. "The music is definitely 
the rallying call," Lynch explains. He 
wears a black shirt, hiding all but a purple lock of his hair. "Hardcore starts 
with hearing something that differs 
from the norm. It then gets you listening to the lyrics, which are the most important part of the music. The music is 
anger, but anger in a fun way." 

John Lynch has opinions on all 
aspects of hardcore, and in May 1983 
he began writing a series of broadsides 
about developments 
in 
the New 
Haven punk community. Aptly titled 
"Not on MTV ," installments of Lynch's 
commentary- which 
can 
be found 
plastered to telephone poles and store 
walls- cover everything from 
emergence of new bands to incidents 
of harassment. In a September 1983 
issue entitled "What is Hardcore?" 
Lynch states, "The most important 
aspect of hardcore is that it questions-even itself. Most cores agree that 
it's not so much what you're thinking, 
but that you are thinking-and taking a 
stance." Accordingly there are many 
stances and attitudes under the umbrella of hardcore: Anti-Social ("Basic 
dislike of human beings") to Straight-Edge ("Keeping your wits about you 
and doing something positive"), anarchism to pacifism. 

While many of the teenagers read


---

**Title: New Haven Hardcore (continued)**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

Lynch's posters with interest and nod in 
agreement, others feel that few of the 
philosophies he has listed actually exist 
among the 
New Haven hardcore. 
Rather, some feel that their friends are 
only concerned with hanging out and 
getting stoned. Sonja Dove, daughter of 
Pierson Dean Christa Dove, states matters sharply. "Some people 'exist' and 
think that's cool. When they have 
money they spend it all on beer," she 
says with mild annoyance. "There 
seems to be an angry attitude amongst 
the New Haven hardcore, but I really 
don't know what they're angry at: New Haven is a real 'talk town'. People 
here talk a lot about getting bands 
together but they never do anything." 
Sonja's close friend Damon Ortega 
agrees. "I don't just want to have a 
mohawk and tattoos. It's kind of a 
waste. I see people who could have done 
more than have fun on weekends." 

Damon says as he lets his voice trail off. 
Perhaps more than other cores, 
Damon is always creating plans. Right 
now his most radical scheme is to join 
the Irish Republican Army (IRA) 
within the next few years. Despite his 
Hispanic surname Damon comes from 
a predominantly Irish-Catholic family 
which has long supported- both financially and morally- the IRA's cause. "I 
may go after high school. There's a lot 
left to experience here, and I may not 
be ready to get killed just yet," he explained. "I agree that a lot of what they 
do is terrorist, but I wouldn't do terrorist things if I joined. I would never 
plant a bomb in a square and watch 
hundreds of people blow up." He stops 
and looks at his left forearm, on which 
he has written "I'm no puppet" and 
"Personality conflict." "But in a sense I 
guess I have been supporting terrorism 
by sending them money." 

From the 40th floor
Don't even know us
We're desperate and sore
You jack the rent
Can't save a cent
The money we've earned
Already spent.
- "Greedy and Pathetic"
M.D.C.

While many of the original British 
punks came from urban slums, most of 
the New Haven teens live in middle-class communities like Woodbridge and 
Hamden. Many of their parents are affiliated with the University, either as 
alumni or employees. Damon grew up 
in New Haven, acting at the Yale Rep 
and taking violin lessons, and he attended the Loomis-Chaffee School until 
January 
1984. 
His 
father, Jorge 
Ortega, graduated from Yale in 1971 
and now works in the engineering 
department of the language lab. During 
his undergraduate years both Jorge 
and his wife, Leslie Arthur, belonged to 
the hippie movement. Therefore, they 
try to understand and accept Damon's 
involvement in hardcore. "Damon has 
his own kind of lifestyle, as we did. But 
he's more sophisticated at his age than 
we were," says Leslie. She takes a puff 
of her cigarette and passes it on to her 
husband. "I'm not crazy about his haircut, though. He's a great looking kid, 
but he tries to the best of his ability to 
look like crud." 

Leslie believes that she and Jorge instilled the beliefs of the hippie movement in Damon and his younger sister 
Megan. "We taught them to question 
authority, because we always did. The 
kids always find wrongs in the world," 
she continues. "Damon is very moral in 
his attitudes about everything, especially justice. In a lot of ways, I'd like for 
him to stay as he is. I think he has a lot 
of courage to do what he does." 

Unlike Damon's parents, 
many 
others wish their hardcore children 
would grow back their hair, put on 
Izods and burn their Dead Kennedys 
albums. "When I shaved my head, my



**Page number(s): 27**

parents refused to take me to restaurants, to anywhere," recalls Mike, 15, 
whose hair is now a quarter-inch tall. 
"Though my dad loves it now, he initially thought we were neo-Nazis," says 
Laura. "But my mom hates it. She even 
cried over my haircut." Laura brushes 
aside a shock of platinum hair which 
covers her right eye and part of her 
white-powdered cheek. 

As the others speak Greg walks over 
from Wall Street and sits on the outskirts of the 
Despite 
his 
mohawk, his smooth face and slight 
build give away his fourteen years. He 
wears a sleeveless jean jacket with a hot 
pink "Impeach Reagan" button stuck on 
the pocket. Around his neck hangs a 
stiff silver choker with a large plain 
medallion. 

"My mom went hippie years ago and 
she has tons of jewelry that I can 
wear," he says, fingering the disk. He 
pauses and his grin disappears. "I don't 
get along with my mom so well. She 
says that she doesn't find me attractive 
anymore. 'You're not the apple of my 
eye anymore.'" 

Ignorant and loud/ ... A bully and proud
Redneck Klan and KKK/Fuckin' with our scene ...
So you're out to kick some ass
Brainless goon got no class ...
Your life's a rap/Mission of hok
-"Violent Redneck"

Although Greg remains upset about the 
situation with his mother, he nonetheless admits that he willingly tries to 
look disturbing and unappealing. "The 
clothing is to provoke- there's no question about it," he says; alluding to the 
upside-down crosses drawn on his jeans. 
"I'm mirroring the world through how I 
dress. The way I look isn't pretty, but 
the most important thing I do is show 
people how ugly the world is." 

While Greg's appearance is not as 
radical as some of the older cores', he 
still seems to antagonize people with 
what he wears. "Being treated like shit is 
a relatively new thing for me," he says, 
smiling. "I constantly get dirty looks 
from people. Their first instinct is to 
laugh in my face. They think I'm ruining my life. They look at us as if we're 
social abortions. They'd probably like to 
send us to their pope. They'd beg, 'No 
more abortions, no more punks.'" 

"The thirty-cents lady thinks I'm the 
anti-Christ," says Brad Davidson, who 
has been sitting quietly next to Greg. 
"The harassment gets to a point 
where we expect it," Damon says as he 
crushes out his latest in a series of 
cigarettes. "A night never goes by when 
we're not hassled." 
"I love to turn heads, though," Becky 
says. "It's fun to have people look at 
you." 
"Yeah, but not when people drive by 
at sixty miles an hour and yell 'asshole' 
out their window," says Damon. 

Occasionally 
both the cores and 
their critics take that decisive step 
beyond name calling and staring and 
quickly get drawn into a volatile situation. Prior to his spray-painting adventure Damon got involved in a fight at 
Yorkside because, he claims, a drunken 
man shoved his friend. "Earlier this 
summer, a 
bunch of us were at 
Yorkside, and Laura was waving a small 
American flag. Then this big bow-tied 
man walked over and began lecturing 
us about respect for the flag. The man 
wouldn't have done anything if we were 
dressed like everyone else. He was obviously drunk," Damon explained. 
"Brad mumbled to leave us alone and so 
this guy grabbed Brad, dragging him 
and the table forward. So of course we 
lost all our food. Then the management 
got mad at us and wondered how we 
could fight with this reverend. The man 
walked out of the place as if he'd done 
nothing, so I ran outside and pushed 
him down. He pushed a friend of mine 
and threatened me. Luckily, some people coming out of Toad's stopped me 
and calmed me down." 

Despite the incident the teenagers 
can again hang out at Yorkside, which, 
like many other restaurants, evicted the 
kids with regularity several months ago. 
"Last year, everything was great until 
December or January when we got 
thrown out of Naples," remembers 
Becky. "Maybe the people at Naples 
spread the word to other places, because 
we couldn't buy food anywhere 
anymore." 
"We've been thrown out of every 
place imaginable," complains Glynis 
Rochelle in her rushed, excited way. 
"Other teenagers who hang around 
downtown are never treated like this. If 
we walked into Naples with shetlands 
and loafers on, they'd never throw us 
out. All they said to us was, 'We don't 
serve your kind here. We don't like 
your kind.' Well, what is our kind?" 

As Naples Pizza's manager John 
Cirillo explains, Glynis' kind loiters in 
his restaurant for hours at a time, buying little food and dirtying the tables. He 
denies that his establishment discriminates against the children because of 
their appearance. "We serve them like 
anyone else. But they're making a hangout of this place, and we're a restaurant, 
not a hang-out," says Cirillo. 

Flashing lights and billy clubs
Waving in the air
They'll kick your ass, they'll bash your brains
They don't fuckin' care
You're under arrest
You don't know why.
Shades of plexiglass
Riot squad, nazi squad
-"Riot Squad"
Toxic Reasons

The hardcore teenagers recite a litany 
of criticisms about police treatment. 
They allege that both Yale and New



**Title: On the Yale Campus**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"On the Yale Campus 
since 1939" 
Next Doorto 
York Square Cinema 
Cleaners, lncJA\J 
51 Broadway 
777·2546 
WELCOME BACK 
YALE 
make your plans NOW 
for wimer and holiday 
1 ravel. 
TEMPLE TRAVEL 
865·5131 
178 York St. New Haven 


Haven. police harass them frequently 
and wtth glee. The kids believe that the 
Yale force 
especially 
resents their 
presence on University grounds. 
"In the winter, they kicked us off the 
grates because of complaints from 
Yalies," Becky says. "But now it's fun 
li>r them. It's their sport." 
"We've been thrown off the streets by 
the Yale cops, we've been sworn at by 
them," says Damon. "One day this sum-
mer when we were sitting on Cross 
Campus, a cop car rolled onto the lawn 
from the Elm Street side. They drove 
past thl' trees, stopped and told us to 
leave. It was purely a scare tactic." 
. Perhaps the most harrowing story the 
ktds have to tell concerns·yet another in-
cident at Yorkside Pizza. As Lynch re-
counts it in an issue of"Not on MTV "' 
Nylon , one of the local cores, was a't-
tacked by a "pack of middle-aged 
machos." T he police, rather than help-
ing the boy, supposedly laughed and 
asked the assaulters,"Are you through 
yet?" 
Patrol Commander .Jim O'Neil of the 
New Haven Police, however, has never 
heard of the incident on York Street 
and he does not believe it could have oc~ 
curred without stirring public reaction 
against the officers. "I can't imagine 
J ohn Q. Public standing by without doing 
anything," says O'Neil. "Something like 
that would've come to my attention, 
and I would have done everything I 
wuld h~ve to get the officers' jobs." 
Despite their eagernes<; to gripe about 
the police, the cores have only once 
taken formal action over the harass-
ment. Last spring one of the kids filed 
a complaint against a certain Officer 
G rayling W illiams ("instead of blowing 
up his car, which some people wanted 
to do," says Damon). The kids depict 
Wi.lliams as their own Officer Krupke, 
datming he took pains to make life on 
the Yale campus uncomfortable for 
them. 
Commander George Denison of the 
u.nivcrsity police strongly disagrees 
with 
the 
teenagers' description of 
Williams, stating that the officer never 
abandons professionalism in the course 
of duty. "Officer Williams does not 
harass the kids. He's very consciemious, 
perhaps to the point of being a little


**Title: In Love with Louis'**
**Author: Jonathan Young**
**Page number(s): 30-30**

Ken La .. c n awaits the afternoon rush 

The door swings open as a middle-
aged runner enters the lunchroom. He 
sizes up the customers before address-
ing himself to Lee Lassen, the woman 
behind the counter. Grinning im-
petuously, he asks her the location of 
the nearest McDonald's. With a tight-
lippe4 smile she calmly points him 
toward the worst part of town. "Go 
on," she says, "keep running." "Wait a 
minute," the runner asks, "you 
wouldn't make hamburgers 
here, 
would you?'" Lee can no longer sup· 
press her smile and proceeds to ask the 
.vi tty regular customer how he's been. 
Lee Lassen and her husband Ken do 
not simply run a luncheonette. They 
are the proprietors of a certified New 
Haven institution called Louis' Lunch, 
the birthplace of the hamburger. At 
first glance the simple brick building 
resembles an ordinary home. Few 
signs of activity can be seen within. 
~ut at 11:30 a.m. the beginnmg of the 
lunchtime rush changes the situation 
dramatically. 
Louis' regulars start 
pouring into the tiny building for a 
hurried lunch and a few minutes of 
conversation. 
They crowd into a room containing 
one large picnic table, five smaller 
tables and a counter. Behind the 
counter two large black ovens produce 
a steady barrage of sizzling ham-
burgers and cheeseburgers. 
Im-
mediately next to the ovens, racks of 
onions and tomatOes await the finished 
product. A checkered tablecloth and a 
neatly arranged pile of napkins give 
the picnic table the feeling of a family kit· 
chen. Strangers sit together at this 
large table as if they were friends. The 
line comes out of the door of the tiny 
building as businessmen, laborers and 
students wait for their burgers. Just 
above the counter at the front of the 
line, a sign proudly proclaims, "These 
are the good old days." 
The 
Lassen's 
establishment has 
never lost sight of its good old days. 
Ken's grandfather. Louis 
Lassen, 
started the business in 1895. Back then 
the specialty of the house was a steak 
sandwich- also invented at Lou is', 
Ken claims. The elder Lassen would 
bring home the raw trimmings from 
his steak creation and use them to 
make his children's dinner. Only in· 
stead of preparing steak sandwiches, 
he put the trimmings through a hand 
grinder and cooked up the ground 
meat. The little Lassens enjoyed these 
meals so much that Louis began to 
consider adding the dish to his menu. 
Then one day in 1900, as legend has it, 
one ·of the regulars asked for a quick 
lunch to go. Lassen cooked up some of 
the ground meat, put it between twO 
pieces of toast, and the hamburger was 
bam... 
Louis' son Ervin and grandson Ken 
soon joined in the family business. 


SPECIAL OFFER 
$ 
SOFT CONTACT 
LENSES* 
Bausch & Lomb 
NOW IS THE BEST 
TIME TO GET YOUR 
NEW CONTACT 
LENSES ... AT ROYAL 
VISION CENTER. Your 
eyes will be examined 
by our staff op-
tometrist, and in many 
cases you'll walk out 
with your lenses THE 
SAME DAY! Take ad-
vantage of this special 
limited time offer now. 
30 DAY CONTACT 
Examination and Fitting Fee 
$69 additional 
Limit: One pair per patient 
YOUR COMPLETE EYE 
EXAMINATION includes 
eyeglass prescription 
testing, a visual 
analysis, and screening 
for glaucoma and 
cataracts. Retinal eye 
photography with our 
new fundus camera is 
available. 
OUR NO RISK GUARANTEE 
We w ill give a full refund for contact lenses 
or eyeglass frames within 30 days if 
you're not satisfied ... FOR ANY REASON! 
*OFFER EXPlRES OCT. 15th, 1984 
815 Chapel St. 
New Haven 
ROYAL 
VISION 
CENTER 
865-6727 
865-8040 
Providing Quality VIsion Care For Over 40 Years.



**Title: Louis' Lunch**
**Author: Jonathan Young**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Ken, now 67, with warm blue eyes and 
grey hair, recalls helping his father 
grind meat, but did not assume full 
raponsibility as owner until 195 J. 
Though at one time he had hoped to go 
to college, he recognized his respon-
sibility to both family and business and 
stuck with the Lassen tradition. A 
smile creases his face as he recalls fall-
ing in love with the lunchroom. "I'm 
actually a frustrated architect," he ad-
mits cheerfully, "but I needed to sup-
pon my family, and I realized the in-
teUigent thing was to work at what you 
knew." Fortunately, Ken knew how to 
cook. 


World War II interrupted Ken's 
work. He spent four and a half years 
in the Air Force and finished his tour 
of duty in India by teaching supply ser-
vice, the military counterpart to run-
ning a luncheonette. In Ken's absence 
his father, stepmother and uncle ran 
Louis' Lunch. They faced the hardship 
of a wartime black market- a group of 
unscrupulous merchants who tried to 
profit from the bad times by charging 
exorbitant prices. Rather than do 
business with these men, Louis' closed 
down for two years. At the end of the 
war, 
Ken returned and reopened 
Louis' with a clear conscience. 


But Louis' Lunch had not yet had its 
fill of public controversy. It:t 1975 the 
lunchroom, then located at 202 George 
Street, found itself in the middle of a 
~evelopment dispute. The entire 
block was to receive a facelift and in 
the process the redevelopment agency 
IOught to expel the Lassens. Mostly 
made up of doctors, this group found 
the presence of a hamburger rest-
aurant inappropriate and distasteful, 
and threatened to pull out of the pro-
ject if the luncheonette remained. An 
enormous public outcry ensued in 
Which patrons flew to the defense of the 
popular establishment. Lassen recalls 
l'eceiving mail from all over the coun-
try. "We even had a group of sup-
~ners down in Washington," he notes 
IQ amazement. Yet in spite of his great 
popularity, Ken was forced to take his 
lhow on the road. The building was 
moved to 261-263 Crown Street on ju-
ly 29, 1975. 


"Could I have some ketchup?" she inquires. 
Pandemonium. 


Ken threw himself into designing 
this new building, a project which soon 
became an obsession. "I can't tell you 
how many sleepless nights we spent 
trying to keep the place small," he says. 
Lassen himself drafted and measured 
the additions for the original Crown 
Street structure. In making his design 
he wanted a larger building with the 
same small-room feeling of the George 
Street building. Ken assembled a 
talented team to achieve this goal. 
"Everybody worked tOgether to achieve 
this building," he fondly remembers:-
"The mason was so good, we used to 
call him Picasso. Feel that!" he says, 
running his hand over the masonry. 
"He didn't have to make it that smooth. 
He just wanted to!" 


To complete his recollections of the 
construction, Ken takes visitors on the 
famous tour of the wall. As the story 
goes, additional bricks were needed to 
complete the final wall of the building's 
newest room. To solve that dilemma 
Louis' enthusiasts began sending in 
bricks from all over the world. "That 
one's from the Taj Mahal," Ken points 
out. "This one's from William and 
Mary," he says, tapping a somewhat 
charred brick. "The building it was 
taken from burned down. This one's 
from the Coliseum ... " The list goes 
on, illustrating both the diversity of 
Louis' customers and the affection they 
share for the innocuous little lunch-
eonette. 


Louis' regulars have always 
tempered this affection with a wry 
sense of humor. T he Lassens have a 
rapport with their customers that often 
disarms the uninitiated observer ... A 
~ll-dressed middle-aged woman sit-
ting at the counter is about to begin her 
meal. "Could I have some ketchup?" 
she inquires. Pandemonium. To a 
man, the regulars clutch their hearts 
and groan loudly. "What would your 
father say if he were here, Ken?" one 
remarks. Struggling to keep calm, Ken 
tells her she can't have any. The 
woman indignantly insists on ketchup. 
Ken refuses again. The woman per-
sists. Ken grows irate. Finally, after a 
drawn out confrontation, h~i ves in. 
Producing a plastic ketchup bOttle, he 
lowers it toward her hamburger. Sud-
denly, he levels it at her face and 
squeezes. A red stream springs out 
straight for the woman's face. She · 
gasps and cringes, only to see the 
threatening stream 
miraculously 
retract into the bottle from which it 
sprang. "That's ~s close to ketchup as 
you get at Louis' Lunch," Ken says 
triumphantly. 


Underlying Ken's humor, though, 
there is a serious concern for the 
customer's enjoyment. "There's just no 
need for the ketchup," he explains. 
"But it's a kind of ego trip. They don't 
like me telling them what to put on 
their food and I don't like them ruining 
the flavor. If they'd only taste it, they'd 
see." 


Lassen's commitment to quality 
borders on obsession. Every weekday 
he climbs into his huge Chevy:-"a 
tank"-drives to New H aven from his 
home in Orange and puts in a 13-hour 
workday. If a nything, the long hours 
increase his boundless energy. "It's 
taken three generations of hard work to 
produce this lunchroom ," he declares 
with conviction. "and where's the


money from it? It's in your damned 
sandwich!" 


Lassen shows a disregard for money 
that is hard to lind these days. H e gets 
most of his satisfaction from the service 
he renders the community. "Any fool 
can stand there and make hamburgers. 
I like my philosophy of life to come in-
to it." T hat philosophy involves public 
service with a healthy dose of self-
sacrifice. H e cares more about giving 
the community a plac·c that is uniquely 
its own than about turning a profit. 
"People don't have that much money," 
he explains. "We could price our food 
out of your range. My meat bill would 
scare most people. But I don't want to 
do that. I'll never be rich but I'll never 
be poor either." Ken is proud of the 
fact that people come to his restaurant 
and return the next time with their 
friends. 


When a!jkcd to compare his food to 
that of other establishments, Ken 
modestly maintains, "All I know is my 
own stuff." But Lassen does not shrink 
from judging his food on its own 
merits. He knows that he makes a 
quality produc·t. but refuses to compete 
openly with 
neil{hboring establish-
ments. Ken prefers to compare his 
food to more intangible standards. As 
he puts it, "\-Ve take it so seriously 
because we compete with the world." 


Ken Lassen's hands are flying. With 
swift, well-practiced strokes he slices a 
tomato into eight even sections. Grab-
bing an onion, he repeats the process 
and pauses to examine his work. 
Satisfied, Lassen turns with a grin to 
face the counter. 
"What'll it be?" 
"Two cheeseworks and a 
Pepsi, 
Ken." 
Lassen wheels around to face his kit-
chen. He opens the saloon-style oven 
doors to withdraw a batch of ham-
burgers. Before they have a chance to 
cool. he places them on toast. applies 
tomato and onion. adds cheese c.nd 
proceeds to present his customer with 
two of the best hamburl{ers in New 
Haven. And possibly the world . 
• 
] 01UJ1han Young is a junior in Branford. 


**Title: What's in a Pseudonym?**
**Author: Booksfrina Kelley**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When Daniel James '33 testified before the House Un-Amcrican Ac-tivities Committee in the summer of 1951, he brought a copy of Voltaire's Candidt. The book had been published under a pen name and .James believt·d that if the Committee continued 34 Th~ l':~w .Journal/~pl~mber 7, 1984 blacklisting artists allt•gedly affiliated with the Communist Party. Amt•ri<·an writers would resort to po;~udonyms in order to publi<;h. The Committee was not interested in James' anecdote and stopped him l)('fon· ht• could lini,h. 

Thirty-two years later Simon and Schuster published Famous All Otm 7iJwn, a novel about a 14-vear-old Chit·ano growing up in the b~rrios of East Los Angeles. Heralded as "a book about Mexican-American culture from the inside but for outsiders." it won the 198:~ American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters Rosenthal Founda-tion Award as a work of literary merit ~ whi< h had not suct·eedcd commercial-ly. 'The author was Danny Santiago, ~ who according 10 the book jacket ~ "grew up in Los Angeles and is tht• ~ author of stories published in Playbo)!, i Rtdhnok, and Nutrlrn." His editors also ~ considered nominating the novel, San-8 tiago's first, for the Pulitzer Prize, but ht· refused to supply the requisite bio~raphical sket<·h. For 16 years he had remained an enigma to his readers, his agent and even Rob Render, his editor at Simon and Schuster. Santiago communidrl(d on-ly through letters from a post office box in Pacific Grove. California. "We fi~-,rured he was probably in prison and didn't want anybody 10 know," Render said in a Nau York TimtS interview. 

Danny Santiago is not in prison. 1 hough he had been before. Danny San·tiago did not grow.J.lp in Los Angeks; he is a product of it. Danny Santiago is Dan .James. whose 1951 prediction has come true, at least for him. James hid behind a pseudonym partly becaust• ht· had been blacklisted, partly becaust• he felt he could not writt' without it. 

The pen name. a Spanish tran'>la-tion of .James' own, has ntUscd somt• controversy in literary l'irdcs after an August Ntw Ynrk Rtvi~w qf Bonks art ide explained the mystery. Rut controvc.•r-sy is nothin'{ new to the 73-year-nld Californian. Rorn in Kanllas Citv, the son of a wealthy porcelain merehant, .J amc.·s attendt·d Andovc.•r. then Yale. whc.·re he joined the John Reed Scx.·it··ty. a group or Communist intdlct··tuals. Upon l(raduating. he sold china in the Dust Rowl during the Deprt·s-sion and worked as a truck driver's assistant in the Oklahoma oil fields. whc.·re he became intere~ted in or~aniz-


ing labor. "I got 75 cents an hour. The management cheated us," James re-called. While writing in Kansas City he was sent to prison several times on "ridiculous charges- for endorsing unemployment insurance and passing out leaflets," he said. His father en-couraged him to write. "That was mostly to keep me out of jail," .James said. He moved to California in 1937 and joined the Communist Party a year later, while working as an assis-tant director with Charlie Chaplin on The Great DictalQr. 

Four years later James' own play, Winter Soldiers, a paean to the Soviet Union, earned him the Howard Memorial Award for "the young American playwright showing the most promise." 

That promise was not fulfilled. James' writing career declined follow-ing his blacklisting three years after he left the Party in 1948. That same year, at the request of a friend, he and his wife Lilith started volunteering in the Los Angeles barrios. After 20 years of social work there, James had collected enough material for his book, which took 15 years to write. 

Famous All Over Town tells the story of Chato Medina, "partially me in a Mexican suit," James said. It brings together many threads from the author's early career. His social con-cern had surfaced during his Yale years in activities such as a hunger march on Hartford. He learned fur-ther lessons of empathy from Chaplin. "He taught me the closeness of tragedy and absurd farce." As for James' in-terest in Communism he said, "A cer-tain social guilt affected it. Com-munism was standing for some very progressive things back then- un-employment insurance, black rights, women's rights." Famous All Over Town speaks eloquently and · subtly for the Hispanic community where he had spent half a lifetime, 

"Just write your name and keep them guessing," Chato says to himself at the end of his story when he signs all of the buildings near his recently-leveled neighborhood . .James too has incurred some resentment with his signature. "We were taken," said Philip Her-rera, founder of Nuestro, (Spanish for "our"), which printed some of Danny Santiago's stories. "We were trying to present the best image of Hispanics we could. We were not trying to publish Anglo writers with Spanish surnames." 

Some critics suggested that James' ethnic surname was a determining fac-tor in his receiving the Rosenthal Award, but R.W.B. Lewis, professor of English and American Studies, denies this. Lewis, the member of the selection committee who introduced the book to the group, and another member agreed that "the ethnicity of the author had nothing to do with giv-Famous All Doer Town is the story of Chato Medina's turf in a Los Angeles barrio and its importance to him as he grows up. The Medinas join a fruitless fight against the Southern Pacific Railroad, the employer of most of the area's residents, which had decided to tear down the area to build a freight yard. Chato, the novefs cynical and savvy narrator, gives an outsider's view of the in-side of City Hall: 
.. City Planning Commission," a block of wood said in gold. 
There were nine planners pres-ent. each one with his private sign, such as La Kretz, Torvaldsen, Kleinburger and other all-American names. You don't see much GOmez up there at City Hall, or Garcia. at least not without a broom in hand. The Planners sat listening in fat green chairs and passed the time by put-ting their glasses on and taking them off. Of all those 18 hands there was not a sangle missing finger which would be a world record for any 9 of our people. A tall, gray-haired, S-shape man was preaching from the pulpit in front. Mr. Cockburn they called him, which seemed a very crazy name to me, even for an Amerrcan. 
"What's he talking?" "JY father asked. 
"All about a bunch of slums someplace," I answered. "They didn't get to Shamrock yet." 
But I was wrong. Mr. Cock-bum snapped his fingers and they splashed a very familiar picture on a big movie screen. My father gasped like shot. It was our home, and how mean and ugly 'fe looked up there between those marble col-umns ... 
Was I deprived and disadvan-taged like this man t·d, or destituted? My father worked steady. I had never been rry for myself before, except maybe two Christmases back. And here I was living in The Slums and never knew it. because by the time Mr. Cockburn added it all up, even a q.caracba would be ashamed to admit Shamndt Street was his home address. 
C1 1981 by Danny SanltaKO
The New Journal/September 7, 1984 35 


ing him the prize. It was for the book's literary worth. He received no special consideration as a Chicano." Yet in a New York Times interview Lewis said, "I would have to say that if we had known [about the pseudonym, the book] it wo"uld have given us pause. We would not necessarily have rejected it, but we would have had to talk a little more about it. It does raise all kinds of interesting questions. 

"After we found out about the pen name," he concluded in a recent inter-view, "we agreed the book was a greater achievement than we had realized. It wasn't an autobiography like rd assumed, but it's a work of imagining. Tha~ makes it better." 

James, who plans to continue writing as Danny Santia.go, had few qualms about the pseudonym. "I said. 'Nobody's going to be hurt if the book's any good.'" Though some critics have suggested that the H ispanic pseudo-nym allowed him to profit from the re-cent popularity of minority writers • .James denies this. "Sixteen publishers turned the book down. and I tried to pla<:·e it for five years. Having a Hispanic name didn't help." 

Rohnto Gonza]ez-Echevarria.chairman ol Yale's Spanish department. justHies the use of a pen name. "We are always deceived by literature." hl· said. "It's alway!l playing games with us. so why should we be deceived by this? The book adds to the value of Chicano issues as a valid literary thcmt• not restricted to writers of Chicano origin." 

Bender also denied the importance of the pen name. "Until an author is very well-known it doesn't make any difference who he is or where he is from. When you're buying a book from an unknown author, you ~ave to rely on the book for publicity, not the author. All that matters is the novel, the work of the imagination. It wasn't offered as a biography. He spent more than 20 years in the neighborhood and was as well-qualified to write about it as anyone." 

Why then did j ames feel he needed a pen name? "In som~·ways, Danny San-tiago is what I wanted to be but am not," he explained about what he refers to as his "mild deception." "He's brash, impetuous, macho. I was writing dur-ing years when the threat of the blacklist was still very strong. I lost confidence in myself, in my ability to write. Danny Santiago had that con-fidence." 

An·ording to graduaH· student Tom Ferraro, who will indudt• lht· final chapter of Famou.r All Ov" Town in his American Studies senior seminar. ~James' emulation of a gheuo voice renects his inability to find his own voice, partly because of the hurl and disillusionment he had with Com-munism. He had experiem·es to look back upon, so he had a psy<:holol{ical need to look at himself a<; Danny San-tiago."


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: James**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"I enjoy writing under 'Danny San-
tiago,"' .James said. "It's something fresh 
and new in life. I wanted a 'we' feeling. 
How could a .Jorgensen or a Smith write 
ahout Chato's life?" H e explained fur-
ther in a letter to his friend John 
.Gre~ory Dunne, who wrote the New 
York Rtview '!f Books article with .James' 
consent: "[Santiago is] so much freer 
than [ am myself. He seems to know 
how he feels ahout everything and has 
none of the ifs, ancls and buts that I'm 
plagut·d with . . . I can't let him go. 
~1 aybe he'll prove a strait-jacket later 
.on. We'll se<·-" 

J ames eventually grew frustrated at 
not being able to meet his fans or talk 
to his editor and critics. "I was getting 
interesting mail as Danny Santiago 
and it bothered me not to be able to see 
the people who were writing. I felt 
claustrophobic, I felt trapped. Now the 
result is most gratifying for a man who 
was forgotten, a pseudo-writer," he 
says of his transformation from a post 
office 
box number. "Anyway, 
it 
wouldn't have taken a detective to find 
out who Danny Santiago was." 

l 'nrln the strri'l lamp "!Y namr 1parklrd out 
mto thr ru:ttht likt a jewr/~y .rtor·r. I flood to 
onr sidr and watched The Public as they 
parud kv inspecting it. 
Thrre was onl' oldt'r man, 
lii'TY wt'll-
drrrsrd. thr all-A mrrican ~vpe. Whr~ hr raw 
mr nomr it war likr a .~un aimt'd r~ttht at 
him. Hr nrorly put up his handr. 
"Who is this Chato?" that man no doubt 
a•l..rd hinnrlj "And what'r his namr doine 
rm my Bank l!( Amrrica?" 
Pooih/y hr lt'ar thrir t•ia-prnidmt. 
Anrl('a)' hr boueht a nru·rpaprrfrom thr coin 
hn\ thm drol'r off in his Lincoln Continm-
lt~/ .\lr nom• ,, .','11 f. . fl ... , :""'man homr likr 
thr tnothacl 
11 will haunt his sleep and 
'""'"rrmr 
11 ;nil '''" hr •t ml)b/ing around 
IIIIU{,· hi1 hrar1. 
Chaw·., name. and now Dan .James' 
"ith it. 


**Title: Afterthought**
**Author: Rogers Smith**
**Page number(s): 38**

Soul of the SHining City
Once in the sixth grade in my m idwestern town, we studied 
the nature/nurture debate, whether genetics or the en-
vironment most determine human conduct. One par-
ticularly ingenious pupil suggested there might be other 
factors at work: "Perhaps we have souls." This proposal 
won derisive snorts from some classmates and my teacher. 
She explained gently that the "soul" was a religious concept, 
to be discussed in church school, not science class. 

This story came to mind when President Reagan in-
dicated in Dallas that" he means to make the old issue of 
religion and politics central to his fall campaign. I oppose 
the President's views on that issue. But I have come to 
think that the position implied by the answer my liberal 
and enlightened teacher gave me w~s not adequate, either. 

President R eagan argues that the Constitution rightly 
forbids official establishment of a particular religion. But he 
believes most Americans share a faith iri God,. despite their 
different ways of expressing it. He thinks this common 
faith is needed to sustain traditional values that unite 
Americans and give their lives moral meaning. The Presi-
dent therefore thinks it proper, indeed necessary, for· 
Americans to voice this faith publicly- by permitting 
voluntary prayer in public schools, and by explicitly relying 
on religious values in defining and defending public 
policies on controversial issues such as abortion. 

In response, liberals too often argue that religion should 
be a purely private affair, entirely confined to homes and 
places of worship and entirely excluded from public educa-
tion and political debate. Those answers are too blind to the 
meaning of religious faith and to the cultural needs the 
President addresses. 

Some politicians genuinely believe that God's laws make 
certain policies right. To ask them to ignore those beliefs is 
to demand apostasy; to ask them to conceal them is to re-
quire hypocrisy. Furthermore, students of American socie-
ty from George Washington to Alexis de Tocqueville to 
contemporary sociologist Robert Bellah have agreed that 
this nation needs to be bound together by shared values, 
and that, given our cultural traditions and human 
psychology, most people must understand those values as 
grounded in the eternal will of a Creator. Some scholars 
wonder whether America's vast.._ mobile, diverse society can 
'maintain feelings of loyalty, ovility and community without 
more non-sectarian public reinforcement of the nation's 
spiritual heritage, its "civil religion." 

They h~ve a point. Today we permit in principle, but 
neglect in practice, teaching America's religious and moral 
traditions- and their problems- in our public schools. 
Those studies do not belong in science classes, but they 
have a place. Without them our education implicitly con-
veys the message that the chief alternative moral perspec-
tives are vocational advancement or personal self-
expression. That teaching is both an injustice to our past 
and a loss to our civic culture. I also see nothing wrong 
with polit~ians I!Cting !~cordance with their religious 
consciences; would that more posSt:ssed some such beast. 

But another childhood incident dramatizes for me the 
38 The New Journal/September 7, 1984 
dangers of President Reagan's views. In the second grade 
we began every class with the Pledge of Allegiance, the 
Lord's Prayer and eccentric religious readings by our 
teacher (all supposedly voluntary, though no one told us 
that). This good lady taught that a wise man had predicted 
that Christ would come again, to America, and would 
found a new, perfect city of shining light, probably in 
Chicago. (I recently realized that th,is story was a distorted 
,version of the dream of the late 19th century reformer, 
Henry Demarest Lloyd, who hoped to transform Chicago 
into a model of Christian Socialism.) 

My teacher was addled, but the parents in my Protestant 
school district adored her. There are many similar teachers 
and school districts in America's public school system. That 
is why the President's d!i~ve for so-called "voluntary prayer" 
is disturbing. Today, devout school children can pray 
before school and silently in school during rest periods if 
they so desire. "Voluntary prayer" legislation will mean, in 
practice, vocal prayers during school hours and led by a 
teacher, that will usually reflect the religious opinions of the 
teacher and the area's 
religious 
majority-creating 
psyc~Q!ogi~al pressure on children to conform. (As it is 
these sessions occur in many fundamentalist school districts 
despite the Supreme Court's "no school .prayer" decisions.) 

Some of the dangers attend even the teaching of moral 
and religious traditions as an academic subject. But a 
balanced curriculum would afford less room for sectarian 
proselytizing than public acts of common worship~d I 
think the need to further understanding of our historic 
moral values justifies the risks involved. No such justifica-
tion exists for voluntary prayer. 

Similarly, while politicians certainly can and often 
should explain their religious motivations to voters, they 
are obliged also to give us secular reasons for their policies. 
Public measures that do no more than further the religious 
aims of the ml'!jority have no claim to Jjind citizens of other 
beliefs. They are forms of religious establishment, and they 
should be declared unconstitutional by the courts. It may 
seem undemocratic to insist that the majority offer secular 
as well as religious reasons for its programs. But if our 
public institutions are genuinely to express shared values, 
our laws must be defensible in terms that all citizens can, in 
principle, accept. America's political ideals have been 
thought by many to rest on religion, and if this is not 
understood, these ideals are not understood. But in a socie-
ty containing as many religious and non-religious moral 
perspectives as the United States, only secular arguments 
can serve as common coin. Thus our public schools and 
our legislatures should be forums equally open to discus-
sions of religious and secular beliefs at appropriate times. 
But public institutions must never give primacy to one 
religion over another, or to belief over unbelief, if they are 
to convey political ideals and objectives to which all 
Americans can pledge allegiance. 

• 
Rogas Smtih i's an arsirtant professor (![ poliJiral rdma who ~aches 
«constitutional Law• and «civil Rights and Civil Libmies. •


The New Journal 
Everyone's busy this time of year, but why not 
take time to look into The New Journal? 
For the past three years Yale's best writers, 
editors, photographers, designers and business 
people have dedicated time and energy to this 
award-winning magazine. 
But we need new people, new talent and new 
ideas to keep our magazine alive and growing. 
Come to our meeting, meet our staff and learn 
about The New Journal. And take some time to 
tell us about your ideas. 

ORGANIZATIONAL 
MEETING 
7:30P.M. 
Monday, September 10 
Branford Common Room



**Title: The Co-op Book Department Helps You FIND THE BOOK YOU NEED**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Co-op Book Department Helps You 
FIND THE BOOK YOU NEED 
With these Special Customer Services: 
7 DAY SEARCH SERVICE 
Many popular general titles that are not in 
stock can be obtained in 7 to 10 days or less. 
No fees or charges. Ask at the Book 
Information desk 

SPECIAL ORDERS 
Direct to the publisher for books otherwise 
unobtainable. Allow 3-6 weeks; prepayment 
required; postage ch~rge added. Ask at the 
Special Order Desk. 

OUT-OF-PRINT SEARCH SERVICE. 
If a copy is located, the price is quoted 
first-there is no obligation to buy. Ask at 
Book Information or the Special Order Desk. 

FOREIGN BOOKS 
For titles in French, German, and Spanish 
that are not in stock, ask at the Europa Desk. 

MAILING & GIFT WRAPPING 
Shipment by UPS or parcel post. Ask at the 
Service Desk. 

