Publication date: October 11, 1996
Volume: 29
Issue number: 2

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Audrey Leibovich
- Editor-in-Chief: Hillary Margolis
- Managing Editors: Karen Jacobson, Gabriel Snyder
- Business Manager: Dan Murphy
- Designer: Alec Bemis
- Production Manager: John Bullock
- Photography Editor: Marisa Galvez
- Associate Publisher: Min Chen
- Associate Editor: Joel Burges
- Associate Designer: Kate Merkel-Hess
- Research Director: Dana Goodyear
- Caroline Adams, Jay Dixit, Elizabeth Embry, Sara Harkavy, David Hoffman, Christina Lung
- Members and Directors: Constance Clement, Joshua Civin, Peter B. Cooper, Brooks Kelly, SuLinne Kim, Patricia Pierce, Kathy Reich, Elizabeth Sledge, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Friends: Steve Ballou, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Edward B. Bennett, Jr., Edward B. Bennett III, Blaire Bennett, Paul S. Bennett, Gerald Bruck, Jay Carney, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Louise F. Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Andy Court, Jerry and Rae Court, Mesi Denison, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Brooks Kelly, Roger Kirkwood, Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr., Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Hank Mansbach, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neill, Sean O'Brien, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Rollin Riggs, Nicholas X. Ripoulos, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Dick and Debbie Sears, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Elizabeth and William Sledge, Thomas Strong, Elizabeth Tate, Alex and Betsy Torello, Allen and Sarah Wardell, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

FEATURES
Republicans Get Back in the Ring - Alex Funk
Stripping Away Tradition - Alec Bemis
Hong Kong's Second Coming - Dana Goodyear
Mapping the Mind - Karen Jacobson
TAN DARDS
From Our Perspective
Points of Departure
Between the Vines: A Semester Far from Yale - Hillary Margolis
Endnote: It's Like Butter - Dan Murphy


**Title: Republicans Get Back in the Ring**
**Author: Alex Funk**
**Page number(s): 8**


Republicans Get Back in the Ring 
Rolling with the punches, the Yale College Republicans are using this year's 
presidential election to build an organization in staunchly Democratic turf


**Title: Stripping Away Tradition**
**Author: Alec Bemis**
**Page number(s): 12**


Stripping Away Tradition 
The Yale Precision Marching Band has removed "The Stripper" from their 
repertoire. Will Saybrook College remove The Strip from theirs?


**Title: Hong Kong's Second Coming**
**Author: Dana Goodyear**
**Page number(s): 16**


Hong Kong's Second Coming 
As Chinese rule quickly approaches, Yale seeks out its niche in post-1997 
Hong Kong.


**Title: Mapping the Mind**
**Author: Karen Jacobson**
**Page number(s): 22**


Mapping the Mind 
Researchers at the Yale Child Study Center use MRI technology to 
unscramble the mysteries of the human brain.


**Title: From Our Perspective**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 4**



**Title: Points of Departure**
**Page number(s): 5**



**Title: Between the Vines: A Semester Far from Yale**
**Author: Hillary Margolis**
**Page number(s): 28**



**Title: Endnote: It's Like Butter**
**Author: Dan Murphy**
**Page number(s): 30**



**15th Birthday Sale**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I 15th Bi:rthday Sale 
October 19- Noveznber 2 
Hamden Plaza 
2100 Dixwell Ave. Hamden 
230-0039 · open 7 days 
• natural fiber clothing 
• Crabtree & Evelyn 
• jewelry • toiletries 
• pottery • and 
•ts!)~·~'l presents for 
children of all 
,..~ 
~ 
SIIOP 
21 Broadway, New Haven • 562-()4()7 
4 
0 
The one (1) most 
1 5 
Yo 
expensive item you 
oH purchase. 


**Yale's Inertia**
**Author: The Editors**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

Tk Univmity has onu again reackd that 
stage in hi.swry whm peopk are talking about tk 
New Yak, presumably to be distinguished from 
the Old Yale, which in its own day was 
presumably considned New. 
Wishing to share in this modnnity, wt havt 
chosen The New Journal as the name for our 
publication. &sides, things seemed slow around 
here. 
-The New journa~ Volume 1, Issue 1 
October 15, 1967 

"'TWenty-nine years later, things still feel slow 
1 around here. The foundations of Yale 
never sh ake, but there 
something to be said for 
stability. As the world 
approaches the third 
millennium, Yale ap-
proaches its tri-centenniaJ. 
Like death and taxes, the 
institution of Yale is irritating, 
but its consistency is reassuring. 
Yet taking comfort in 
inevitable also leads to lack of action on 
campus. Things are done halfway, to a point of 
mediocrity rather than excellence. Yalies 
organize a graduate student union, but let it 
disappear under administrative pressure. We 
establish singing groups and secret societies, 
but spend our time railing against them. We 
pay millions to erect immense buildings, but 
refuse to pay the pocket change required to 
maintain them. When the road comes to a 
fork and Yalies have to choose one of rwo 
paths, they sit down in the middle. 

Nearly three weeks ago we witnessed an 
example of Yalies' half-heartedness. Yale Law 
School alumnus Bill Clinton signed the 
Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA). 
Legislation with a major impact on Civil 
Rights! Issues of Constitutionality! Yale had to 
emerge from hibernation to wreak vengeance 
upon the nation and a president that dared 
cross it. 

What did Yale muscer? Pastel chalkings, a 
candlelight vigil at the Women's Table, and a 
less-than-rousing debate in the daily paper. 
These minor protests lasted rwo days, then, 
back to business as usual. 

These have become comfortable ways to 
express opinion, without rocking any boats. 
We hear of a policica1Jy incorrect evenr, we 
shrug, and we assume someone else wilJ do 
something. We sign petitions outside 
Commons, and assume--or hope-that this 
will fix the problem, that our voices as Yalies 
and future leaders will not go unheeded. 

A recent poll shows that many Yalies have 
resigned themselves to casting ballots in favor 
of Clinton for lack of a better option. After all, 
why bother creating a ruckus when someone 
already has the race virtually tied up? Even in 
the face of blatantly discriminatory 
legislation. DOMA definds the 
rights of certain individuals by 
offending those of others. In the 
socially conscious 1990s, we 
would not elect a President 
who stands for racial segre-
gation. Yet by voting for 
Clinton, we accomplish the 
equivalent. 

If our campus cannot be 
moved to larger protests against the status quo, 
then what will move us? We at The New 
journal believe that avenues for change lie in 
opportunities to speak out and be heard. 
Discussion leads to shaking the norm-
disturbing the peace, if you will. In this vein, 
we introduce an editors' page to allow for 
candid opinion. We will share our viewpoints, 
without apology, in hopes of spurring debate, 
conversation, and individual thought-a basis 
for discussion that promotes change. 

At the same time, we question our ability 
to fulfill our goal. Who are we to end Yale "as 
we know it"? Lately, politicians are obsessed 
with promises to end things "as we know it." 
Bill is going to "end welfure as we know it." 
Bob wants to "end the IRS as we know it." 
Here at The New journal, we are nor 
convinced. We feel, however, that our 
skepticism should not stop us from jumping 
on the bandwagon of rransformations. Which 
brings us back to the new editors' page. And in 
keeping with the tradition of doing things 
halfway, we've left (most of) the rest of the 
magazine unchanged. 
-The Editors 


**Buckley and Man at Yale**
**Author: Gabriel Snyder**
**Page number(s): 5**

Just imagine: on a weekly basis, you and 
11 other students "take part in a lively 
conversation about the art of prose" with one 
of the foremost writers in America, Wtlliam E 
Buckley, Jr. (DC '50). His college seminar, 
English Composition, is the sort of once-in-a-
lifetime opportunity that only a Yale education 
can provide. 

Or so the recruiters in the admissions 
office will tell prospective students next 
full. 

"Should we roll?" Buckley asks at 
the start of a recent class meeting. It is 
the fourth week of classes but this is 
only Buckley's second appearance. 

David comes to the front of the room. 
"I'd like to set up meetings, if I could do that 
today.'' David Southward (GRAD '97) is one 
of two assistants Buckley has recruited to help 
manage his class of 12, and he does a lot for 
the seminar. He selected the 12 students from 
the 107 applications; he reads their 
compositions; he meets with them to discuss 
the progress of their writing; he assigns their 
grades. The other assistant, Gloria Hardman, 
helps with the computer Buckley uses to 
project compositions onto. the screen. 

Buckley, sitting behind a laptop computer, 
leans back in his chair with his pen in his 
mouth-the classic Buckley pose. "Are we all 
here, David? Who wrote the essay? Sari?" 
Projected above the class is a computer screen 
divided into two columns: one for the 
student's composition, the other for Buckley to 
type his revisions. Buckley looks up; Sari 
waves. "Oh, hi. What essay was assigned for 
today?" he responds. 

The seminar is not likely to overload 
anyone's schedule. The weekly requirement is 
to 
write 
two 
250-word 
fictional 
compositions-on topics like "What I saw 
when the bus ran over the child" or "Brian's 
mother discovers a pornographic magazine in 
her 13-year-old's bedroom" (Buckley makes 
these up himself)-and revise a classmate's 
essay. Buckley assigns no readings, but he 
recommends the purchase of a style manual. 

Buckley dives into Sari's essay. It begins: "A 
crown of laurels rests on Charlie's head, the 
leaves bending over his forehead ... " Buckley 
comments, "Leaves don't really bend. How 
about, 'leaves lapping over'?" and he types the 
revision onto his side of the computer screen. 
Five minutes later the computer crashes. 
"What could be wrong? Do you know, 
Gloria?" Buckley asks. David and Gloria come 
over to Buckley and peer over his shoulder at 
the laptop. "We better reconstitute," Buckley 
annotinces. As soon as the computer system is 
back up again, Buckley gets back to business. 

The conversation quickly turns to the 
topic of punctuation. "The semicolon 
is very arbitrarily used," Buckley 
remarks. 

Later, 
he 
notes, 
"Parentheses are underused 
today." 

Buckley spends almost an 
hour on the first composi-
tion, changing a word 
here, a comma there. 
by 
calling 
him "gay boy." 

One of Buckley's 
first comments is, 
"If I was writing that, 
I would hyphenate 'gay 
boy.' It enhances the 
rhythm." 

The next essay 
tells the story of a 
fourth-grade bully, 
Justin, who tor-
ments Jeffy on 
the school bus 

He 
spends 
almost 
another hour on the second 
composition; the class time is 
nearly up. Buckley hurriedly runs 
through a third essay composition in 
the remaining 15 minutes. He asks 
David, "What do you want to do about 
my slow speed?" 

The only student compositions that 
Buckley looks at are the ones he gets to during 
class. One student in the seminar puts it this 
way: "You know Buckley only reads what he 
sees in class? What a joke. At first, I thought 
this would be this great thing, but now I just 
think it will be an easy credit." 

Some students are impressed with 
Buckley's seminar. After aJI, the class does 
expose students to the long-forgotten rules of 
punctuation and diction. One student claims, 
"I've learned how to write fiction from the TA; 
I've learned how to edit from the professor." 

However, one wonders if any other 
professor at Yale College. would get away with 
a teaching ethic like Buckley's. The appeal of 
the seminar certainly has something to do with 
the prominence of William E Buckley, Jr. "It's 
the only class I've taken at Yale that is just a 
cult of personality," a student says. 

After class, students gather around David, 
posing questions about meetings and handing 
in essays. Buckley is shown the way to 
Hillhouse Avenue where his chauffeured 
limousine waits to whisk him back to New 
York. 
-Gabriel Snyder


**Nobody Does it Like ...**
**Author: Sara Harkavy**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Last semester, when trudging up Science 
Hill twice a week for my intro geology course, 
I always looked forward to eating lunch at the 
School of Management's (SOM) Donaldson 
Commons. The people were new, the lines 
were short, and most importantly, the food 
was so good that I even indulged in the 
occasional meat product. In the SOM dining 
hall you will never be driven to the salad bar 
by choices of soylada or cod nuggets on the 
hot line. No, at SOM, you are treated to brand 
names like Fruitopia, Dunkin' Donuts, and 
now, Sara Lee. 

Long associated with pastries, Sara Lee is 
expanding into the sandwich business. And 
my beloved SOM dining hall has wisely 
jumped on the Sara Lee deli meat 
bandwagon. Donaldson Commons now 
includes a brand-new Sara Lee Sandwich 
Shoppe, replete with a Sara Lee sign 
and matching uniforms for the Yale 
dining hall workers. As SOM 
dining hall manager Tom Sullivan 
says, "People want to see that 
they are eating a brand name 
food, they're willing to pay a 
higher price for premium 
quality food." Which begs the question: what's 
the quality of the food in che other dining 
halls? 

Before I could give my wholehearted 
approval to the Sara Lee Shoppe, I had co taste 
the sandwiches for myself Since most of the 
cold cuts had already run out, I settled for a 
sandwich with Honey Roasted Turkey Breast 
and cheese (which I later found out is not a 
Sara Lee product). Despite the imposter 
cheese, the sandwich was good by restaurant 
standards and exceptional by Yale standards. 
And, unlike a sandwich at a restaurant, mine 
was covered by the meal plan. 

It cook a lot of hard work for Yale co 
become part of the Sara Lee family. Chuck 
Bennett, assistant director of dining halls, 
explained to me that the only way Yale dining 
halls could be a part of this lucrative scheme 
was to enroll in Sara Lee's deli meat training 
program. A trainer came to Yale to teach both 
managers and staff the tried-and-true Sara Lee 
recipes and methods. Without this instruction 
Yale employees would not earn the right co 
wear the Sara Lee uniform. As an extra 
precaution, trainers installed photocopied 
diagrams of sandwiches beneath the counter. . 

I approached one woman behind the 
counter, who was sporting the requisite black 
and red hat and apron set. According to her, 
not everyone is thrilled about this new 
addition. Some of the workers at SOM, who 
asked to remain anonymous, complained that 
the new set up is more complex and the 
sandwich recipes are coo restrictive. 

But it seems chat Sara Lee is the wave of 
the future. Yale has finally come co the 
conclusion that the best way to improve Yale 
food is to stop serving it. 
-Sara Harkavy


**The Great Bike Heist**
**Author: Yuki Noguchi**
**Page number(s): 6**

I arrived at M&M Pawn Shop, located at 
the corner of Howe and George, co see what 
they had to offer-<lr more precisely, co find 
my stolen bike. Heaps of speakers, TVs, 
VCRs, drums, and furniture lined the walls. 
My eyes fell on the eight or so mountain bikes 
parked in a disorderly fashion in the side 
alcove of the room. One in particular-the red 
bike with the yellow "Giant" logo-grabbed 
my attention. A closer look revealed chat it was 
not "The One." 

Posing as an interested customer, I 
approached a clerk about purchasing 
procedure: "Do you ever have the problem of 
selling bikes chat have been stolen?" 

He lowered his chin, frowned, and shook 
his head vigorously. "No, never, because we 
register the names on a computer," he said. 
"You a Yale student?" 

"Yes." 

"Yeah, I've sold over 100 bikes since the 
beginning of the school year to Yale students." 

"What if someone wants to buy their 
stolen bike back?" I tried a new tack, doubting 
the truth in his response from the fuse time 
around. 

"Well, usually, they bring in a police 
report, and the police buy it back." 

Usually? 

Like many people, my bike was locked 
when it was stolen. For the first week of 
school, I was extremely scrupulous about 
locking it whenever I was five feet away. I had 
it· chained to a lamppost in a well-lit area in 
from of the Law School, a high-traffic zone at 
any hour. It muse have taken a consummate 
thief co steal on Wall Street on a Thursday 
night between 8 and 11:30 p.m. After circling 
the campus several times that night in search 
of my stolen bike, I gave up. The bike was a 
lost cause; it was simply gone. 

The following morning I made my way 
(on foot) to the police station on Park Street, 
hoping they would have a sure-
fire method of bike recovery. 
Having told the officer on duty 
the details of my story, and the 
make and model of the bike, 
he told me he would file the 
case. 

"What does that 
mean?" I asked. 

"We file a 
report," 
responded. 

"And?" 
pressed 
further. 

"Well, the report is filed. We have it on 
fil " 
e. 

My crisis, from what I gather, is 
transformed into a square piece of paper (case 
No. 61731 co be exact) and added to similar 
papers in a file. The officer turned away to 
ruck No. 61731 into the file, but I broke in 
with an audacious, "So officer, what do you 
think the chances are of finding my bike?" He 
rolled his eyes, implying my naivete. 

Bikes stolen from the Yale campus are 
often sold to scores outside New Haven, 
making it hard for owners to track them 
down. But as I discovered, there is a huge 
market for stolen bikes at pawn shops even 
within New Haven. Selling over 100 bikes at 
prices ranging from $110-$115, it's not 
surprising chat places like M&M stay afloat. 

Maybe I can find consolation in the fact 
that I am not alone. One friend told me about 
someone who found his stolen bike at a pawn 
shop, had it stolen again, and found it at the 
same pawn shop a couple of days later. 

Another friend told me how she saw a van pull 
up to a pawn shop on Whalley and unload six 
bikes from the back. "You might want to sic 
outside and wait for yours to show up," she 
said. This may be the soundest advice 
I've gotten yet. 
'-Yuki Noguchi



**Title: Belle Epoque**
**Author: Audrey Leibovich**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Belle Epoque
professionals. According to Matthew
I shot an arrow into the air;
Gubens (JE '97), former co-chair of the
it pierced the heart of a millionaire.
Guild of Carillonneurs, the Guild is a "self-
He mused "Not here can I tary umg. ''
perpetuating organization" -not only do
And he wrote out a check for the carillon.
students play the bells, they also run the
The entire campus is your audience, yet
organization and teach new members how
it is an invisible one. As you sit in the little
to play.
green room near the top of Harkness Tower
There is an open call for freshmen and
where the carillon, the instrument that
sophomores to join the Guild in the fall of
rings the bells, is located, you are not aware
each year. Interested students go through
that the entire Yale community hears your
"heel," a two-month training period in
performance. Playing the carillon is
which they are given half-hour weekly
personal, as if you are practicing in the
lessons with a Guild member. At auditions,
privacy of your room. It is also exhilarating;
trainees must perform two pieces of varying
as you play, huge bells-weighing up to
difficulty. They must also prove that they
seven tons each-ring majestically only two
can sight-read and that they have hand-foot
stories above you. You can feel them vibrate
coordination. They are judged not only on
as you play. Darryl Eaton (SY
.
technical abilities, but also on the
,
r---Small dllmeter
98), a member of the Yale
1 Head ',\ a ::
expresstveness
of
their
University
Guild
~-
performance. While previous
Carillonneurs, used to get ~
f.\ music experience is not
nervous when he rang the
mandatory, the ability to
w.;st
~
bells, but now he only gets
read music is essential.
u~...
Humtone
As
with
any
.-....,.
( Funcbment~l)
his
friends
up
to L
~7::; '\
instrument, becoming
Harkness
Tower,
H;p
>-srntKEIIId a good carillonneur
reminding him that
.>.or..,.P\..,. requires
hours of
people all over campus
I
up 1
practice.
Some
are listening.
members of the Guild
The carillon resembles a piano, except
devote a large portion of their time to
instead of a keyboard, there are two rows of
rehearsing, while others only dart into the
batons-wooden pegs, about a foot long,
practice room to review music half an hour
that stick out of the console. They are
before their time slot.
arranged like a piano keyboard but span
The Guild is an eclectic mix of people.
only two-and-a-halfoctaves. To make the
There are only two music majors, but most
bells ring, the carillonneur strikes the
have had prior music experience. Each
batons with his or her fist. Each baton is
member has a weekly time slot for the
connected to a wire which extends up two
semester. There are no constraints on music
stories, where it is attached to a lever. Each
selection; this explains the variety of music
lever, in turn, is connected to a clapper that
played each day. Songs range from
hits the side of the bell and makes it ring.
"Preludium Coucou" to "Cecilia" and "It's a
The bells themselves remain stationary.
Small World After All." The Guild has a
Like an organ, the carillon also has foot
music library containing pieces specifically
pedals that are used to play a bass line.
written for the carillon, as well as
There are only 190 carillons in North
transcribed selections.
America. Although they were created in
The bells ring twice a day-around
England, carillons are most popular in
lunch and dinner times-but they used to
Belgium and Holland; Yale Guild members
ring five times a day, the first one at 7 a.m.
travel there during spring break once every
and the last one at 10 p.m., like curfew
three years to play bells that are over 100
bells. While not everyone appreciates the
years old.
music that emanates from Harkness Tower
Yale is not the only college that has a
(previous Branford masters have even tried
carillon, but it is the only place where
to have the bells silenced), most people
students are completely in charge. Most
cannot imagine a Yale without them.
-Audrey Leibovich


**Title: Republicans Get Back in the Ring**
**Author: Alex Funk**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

Rolling with the punches, the Yale College Republicans are using this year's
presidential election to build an organization on staunchly Democratic turf.

Election '88: We turn our backs on the former captain of the
Yale baseball team in favor of a short, squawky-voiced Harvard
boy who happens to share some of our political views. Though
the rest of the country overwhelmingly prefers George Bush
(DC '48), the undergrads at his alma mater cannot overlook his
conservative leanings. In an election with the lowest national voter
turnout in recent history, four out of five Yalies vote against him.

Election '92: We spurn our home-grown son again, though this
time, more reasonably, we vote for a Democrat who has shown the
good grace to attend Yale Law. He is also a Democrat that can
campaign. In Bill Clinton (LAW '73) we trust: we Rock the Vote, rally
in Battell Chapel, mobilize for National Student Mobilization Day,
listen to Hillary (LAW '73) on the New Haven Green. We Vote For a
Change and a change we get: the first Democratic President in 12 years.
The fact that he is a Yalie is less important than the fact that he is a
Democrat; most of us here are ecstatic about both. ·

Election '96: Yale helps re-elect Bill Clinton to the white House.
The script is already finished. Thanks to the modern obsession with
polling, we know that only a serious blunder by Clinton, or a major
switch in public opinion, could put Bob Dole in the White House on
November 5. The ex-majority leader of the Senate trails Clinton by a
substantial ten-point margin nationally, and a Yale Daily News poll
indicates that the gap is roughly 50 points here at Yale. It is different,
however, than it was four years ago, when Democratic activism was
prominent and constant right up to Election Day. Yalies are content
this year to sit back and watch, confident that their candidate needs no
more than the votes he already has to return for a second term. No Vote
need be Rocked, no Change solicited, thank you very much. Seventy
percent of the campus is more or less happy to extend the Yale clinch
on the White House to 12 years.
Is Yale a Democratic campus? Is the macarena just a fad?
, ~
Bengal 'Iigers
As election years go, it has been a quiet one at Yale. No memorable
rallies, no campus visits by candidates, no special "ongoing series" of
election articles in the YDN. Relative to 1992, we are asleep.
David Cook QE '99), a Yale College Republican,· tried to stir
things up with a September 25 guest column in the YDN, calling Yale
a "campus of knee-jerk Clintonians" and daring his classmates to join
"the best party on campus," the Yale College Republicans. Nobody
publicly took issue with the first statement, and as to the invitation, I
may have been the only one to respond, albeit indirectly:
Suffering from voter apathy, I decided that the "best party on
campus" was just what I needed for a political shot in the arm. In all
honesty, I figured that the Democratic Party might be more up my
alley, but to be fair, I looked into both. Besides, you have to root a little
bit for the underdog, even in politics. I'm not talking about Dole here,
but about the Yale College Republicans. To me, their name sounds like
an oxymoron. My friend Blake likens them to Bengal tigers: fierce and
deadly, but so rare that you want to check in from time to time and
make sure they haven't all vanished. Not having heard much from any
Yale College Republicans recently, I thought it'd only be fair to check
them out and see if they were for real, leaving open the possibility of
having my opinion reshaped.
About politics. Not partying.
ARight
John Mihaljevic (DC '99) is tall, dark-haired, and president of the
Yale College Republicans. Like so many people in high-profile
political positions, Mihaljevic is careful to repeat certain buzzwords
in conversation, especially when that conversation is with
somebody who may be writing a magazine article. His current
word is "activism," and if you talk to. him enough, you begin
to develop the mental image of a handful of nearly ragged
individuals, exhausted to their conservative-but-mainstream
marrow by an endless flurry of campus and community
activiry.
These are the Yale College Republicans, and to be honest,




**Yale Republicans and the Women's Voter Education Program**
**Author: Alec Bemis**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Though their numbers are perennially smaller 
than those of the Yale College Democrats, the 
Yale College Republicans are innovatively 
using the manpower they have, which has 
swollen into the hundreds this election year. 
"Because of the Yale College Republican's 
smaller numbers and simpler organizational 
structure, th.ere is more of a chance for 
bottom-up activism from regular 
members. If someone has an idea 
they'd like to see happen, they can 
just mention it at a meeting and we'll 
try to do it." 

Debbie Schmuhl (TD '00) is a 
prime example. A first-year student 
in directed studies, she came to Yale 
expecting to get involved in women's 
issues, particularly with regard to the 
election campaign, in which she 
supports Dole. "At Freshperson 
Bazaar," she says, "I stopped by the 
table of the Yale Women's Center. As 
soon as I mentioned that I was pro-
life, I began to feel somewhat 
unwelcome. They were nice to me, 
and the Women's Center is a good 
thing to have on campus, but I could 
tell that there weren't any people who 
really shared my ideas." 

With the encouragement and 
backing of the Yale College 
Republicans, Schmuhl started her 
own organization a month after 
arriving at Yale, called the Women's 
Voter Education Program (WVEP). 
The group held its first meeting last 
week. 

"The aim of the group is to get 
past the idea of treating women like a 
special-interest group. We represent half of 
the voting population; there's got to be more 
than one issue affecting our view of the race. 
It seems like so many women out there think 
c;; or are told that abortion is the only issue 
~ concerning them, but no matter which side 
o 
' 
Id 'thinkth' 
" 
..., youre on, 
ont 
ats true. 

The formation of the group was 
~ accompanied by the first issue of the WVEP 
~newsletter, "Opening Minds." The only 
~ article in it is a piece by Schmuhl outlining 
~ the group's focus in terms borrowed from 
~ Dole's nomination acceptance speech. Also 
]';accompanying the group's formation was a 
~ press release from Mihaljevic announcing the 
if. fledgling organization and tying it to the Yale 
College Republicans. It's a marriage of 
convenience, but Schmuhl, grateful though 
she is to Mihaljevic and the Republicans, 
hopes the program will eventually become 
bipartisan. 

"Our goals are more long-range than 
those of the Yale College Republicans," she 
says. "This is not just something for 1996. 
Our newsletters from now on will deal with 
one specific issue each week that is important 
to women voters." 

The first meeting featured "a core group" 
of five women, but Schmuhl wants to start 
small and grow from there. One of the five 
was Frankie Jones (ES '99), who is pro-choice 
and thinks the new program is badly needed 
at Yale. To Jones, WVEP is a vital addition to 
the Yale community, at least until the 
Women's Center starts focusing more on the 
broader needs of women at Yale. "Honestly," 
she says, "they [the Women's Center] actually 
offer more opportunities for some men than 
they do for me. Programs like BiWays are put 
through there to appeal to bisexual men, 
while Women's Perspective [a group of 
conservative women] was not offered space, 
time, or money. It's crazy." For now, WVEP 
fills the void. 

This is the new bread and butter of the 
Yale College Republicans. They help a group 
like Schmuhl's or Women's Perspective when 
the Women's Center doesn't, and the Yalies 
brought into the program become 
more educated about conservative 
issues and willing to stand up for them. 

"I think the female vote is a big 
area where Dole can win over Yale 
students," says Mihaljevic. "Right now 
female voters may not realize that 
Clinton takes their vote for granted 
because he's pro-choice. Crime, 
education, the economy-these are 
other issues that all women, even if 
they're pro-choice, should consider 
when deciding who to vote for. 
Clinton has ignored these, and that's 
more than enough reason to vote for 
Dole." 

Jones will vote for Dole on 
November 5, but she kind of wishes it 
was Elizabeth. 


**The Yale College Democrats**

And a Left 
In addition to their ruthless 
pursuit of the voting-aged, the Yale 
College Democrats are also a huge 
source of campaign labor for city and 
state Democratic candidates, a 
function that the Yale College 
Republicans do not fill in the 
respective Republican hierarchy. 
Working hand-in-hand with the 
Democratic Coordinated Campaign 
offices on Chapel Street, the Yale College 
Democrats send student volunteers to staff 
the offices and do legwork on campaigns 
that the Democratic brass has designated as 
critical. 

"We've been working on the Gejdenson 
campaign, the Maloney-Franks race, we 
might even send people up to help in the 
Weld-Kerry campaign up in Massachusetts," 
says Kim. "We do much more than the 
College Republicans, so it only follows that 
we have to be a bit more organized. But we 
are open ro a lot of suggestions." 

The Yale College Democrats were 
recently placed "in charge" of the Tri-state 
Area College Democrats. This means that 
Yale is a "warehouse of information" for the 
national campaign, as well as the host site of 
a College Democrat conference that will 
take place in the spring. The group is very 
busy, and doesn't tend to spend time talking 
about issues, though many come up in the 
members' minds. 

"I personally have ~ lot of troubles with 
Clinton," admits Kim in a moment of 
candor unusual among press secretaries. 
"Welfare, DOMA [The Defense of Marriage 
Act], the environment, these things have 
been discussed a lot, and are troubling to 
our executive board. But we're really 
engaged in campaigning right now, and 
we've got to get the best man elected." 

And for you that's Clinton? 
"V» 
xes. 


**Time Out**
**Page number(s): 11**

7ime Out 
It seems that everybody has their minds 
made up about where to cast their vote. 
Republicans 
campaign 
for 
Dole, 
Democrats for Clinton. Aren't there 
supposed to be some kind of debates, other 
than those conducted through tabletenrs or 
on TV from Hanford, for people to learn 
about the issues and make an educated 
OCTOBER II, 1996 
choice? I know I'm not the only Clinton 
supporter who wonders how far the 
President can slide to the right before the 
voters say "stop," and I know more than 
one Republican w ho wishes that 
Dole/Kemp were Kemp/Dole or something 
entirely polysyllabic. Where to go for 
inspiration? 

An outsider might look to an 
organization bearing the title "Yale Political 
Union," but President Veronica Tucci (SY 
'98) quickly puts that lark to rest. "We're a 
parliamentary debate society. The election 
has nothing to do with us." 

Forgive us for hoping. 


**Rope-a-Dope: TKO**

Rope-a-Dope: TKO 
I look Mibaljevic in the eye. Dole 
doesn't have a chance here, does he? 
He looks away, smiles, shakes his head. 
"I won't say that," he protests. 
An uphill battle? 
'1\n uphill battle." 

Down for the Count? 
As we go to press, very little election 
excitement has been felt on this campus. 
Kemp is the candidate that's made it closest 
to Yale so far, and he settled for the 
University of New Haven. No rallies, no 
protests, no scandal or intrigue. For 70 
percent of Yalies, that's probably all right. 
Election excitement often accompanies 
changes in political currents, and right now 
the Vote can only be Rocked out of Clinton's 
hands. Things seem pretty stable; Clinton's 
going to win Ward 1, consisting almost 
exclusively of Yalies. Yale is safely in 
Democratic hands. 

An interesting statistic: back in 1988, 
roughly 80 percent of Ward 1 voted for 
Michael Dukakis over George Bush. Was 
Dukakis a stronger Democratic candidate 
than Clinton? Clearly not. Yet Clinton only 
has 70 percent support. It seems, then, that 
campus conservatives exist in greater 
numbers today, or are doing a better job of 
drawing people to their cause. Though it's 
entirely possible that Republicans wilJ always 
be an endangered species at Yale, people like 
Mihaljevic and Schmuhl are keeping alive 
not only the Republican flame, but the 
possibility that campus conservatism will rise 
again. 


**Stripping Away Tradition**
**Page number(s): 12**

Stripping Away Tradition 
Reason No. 1: "'t represents all that is alive and young about this 
school and to abandon it because of an inconvenience or a fear is to 
give in to entropy, old age, despair, and death. " 

The man with the rubber chicken on his shoulder has drafted a 
Nudist Manifesto. 

Reason No. 2: "'t is a Saybrook tradition that contributes to the 
college's community spirit. " 

This document is a bold statement of intent announcing to the 
world that the fight against tradition will not succeed. 

Reason No. 3: "Part of the college experience is maintaining the 
traditions and joys of the past. What would happen if we stopped 
having graduation on Old Campus? What would happen if we took the 
freshmen off Old Campus? What if]E didn't suck?" 

Dan Fingerman (SY '00) is the man with the chicken on his 
shoulder. Although h!! is responsible for rallying the signatories of 
this document, he is not the only one engaged in the battle to 
prevent the avatars of progress from trampling over the glorious 
traditions of the past. 

Reason No. 4: "Because I Like when people throw cold cuts .at my 
naked body. " 

Fingerman is trying to save the Saybrook Strip. To help propel 
the effort, he has tirelessly collected over 50 reasons why the Strip 
must be salvaged. Between discussions about buying seat cushions 
for the Saybrook TV room and funding a square dance, Fingerman 
presents his document to the 25-odd students assembled at the 
Saybrook College Council meeting. 

No one quite understands why Fingerman has a rubber chicken 
over his shoulder, but it seems a good metaphor for the absurdity of 
the attempt to kill the most prominent piece of Yale's nudity 
tradition. He refers to the chicken as an "old friend" named Wt.lbur. 
"He just happens to fit really well with the Strip," Fingerman says. 
Wilbur, hanging lifelessly over Fingerman's shoulder, has been 
plucked down to his synthetic skin. 

Supporting Fingerman's (and Wilbur's) effort are Saybrook 
Master Antonio Lasaga (Hon. MA '84) and every feisty Saybrugian 
you can find that still gives a damn about residential college spirit. 

A long-time practice at Yale's home football games, the 
Saybrook Strip-a third quarter strip down to boxers and bras 
accompanied by the Yale Precision Marching Band's (YPMB) 
rendition of "The Stripper"-is in danger because of a recent 
addendum to the tradition. 

Along with dropped drawers and unlaced shoes, a hail of rotten 
fruit and half-eaten sandwiches thrown by the other residential 
12 
colleges has become a part of the Strip in recent years. (This, of 
course, is rooted in the jealousy other students harbor over their 
exclusion from the fun of Saybrook's half-naked co-eds.) The 
YPMB, ordinarily seated directly in front of Saybrook, got to share 
in the experience of being knocked senseless by soda cans and bits of 
turkey. Not known for being one of the more rigid organizations at 
Yale, YPMB's list of instruments has included such untraditional 
musical objects as boomerangs, kazoos, and stuffed animals among 
the standard tubas and trumpets. Most incarnations of the band 
have not made a fuss about the mess. 

T
he "enemy" in the struggle against the Strip is Thomas Duffy 
(Hon. MA '81), director of Yale's bands and adjunct 
professor in music analysis at the Yale School of Music. "Last 
year, in conjunction with a number of the students in the band, after 
having been pelted with food and drink and after having-what 
shall I say-dealt with this issue for many years, l decided enough 
was enough and that the band was going to relinquish the honor of 
accompanying the Strip in favor of some more musically spirited 
tunes," Duffy says. Not used to seeing controversy arise over his 
direction-the Yale Winter Wonder Band and the Yale Chamber 
Winds don't often make the headlines of the campus press-Duffy I
talks about the situation in well-measured sentences most likely 
recapitulated from conversations with confused undergrads looking 
for answers. "It was quite obvious mid-season that this was 
ridiculous. Our drum major was covered with food, and it's just not 
a musical event. If these Saybrook folks want to take half their 
clothes off and pretend they're naked, fine, they can do that, but as 
far as committing a prime playing opportunity of the band to 
that ... the time has passed!" 

Duffy also reflects on his moral qualms regarding the Strip. "You 
know, what a wonderful tradition in this day and age--with how 
many people in the world without food?-Yale students, the nation's 
future leaders, throwing food at people who pretend to take off their 
clothes. It's a little puzzling and kind of hard to justify." 

Sick of instruments clogged with mayo, not to mention the 
larger matters of international conscience, Duffy wrote a short note 
last January to outgoing Saybrook Master James Thomas (LAW '64) 
stating that the band would no longer accompany the Strip. This 
was to be the death knell for the Strip as we know it. However, with 
the 1995-96 football season long gone and best forgotten, and 
Saybrook scheduled to welcome Antonio Lasaga as its new master 
for the Fall 1996 semester, the matter never made it into public view. 



**The Great Saybrook Strip of '96**
**Author: Alec Bemis**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T
he first indication that something would be different this 
year came during Freshperson Conference 1996 at idyllic 
Camp Laurelwood. Hundreds of freshmen were assembled in 
small groups according to residential college affiliation. These 
sessions were to be the new frosh's first exposure to the legend and 
lore that run through each college's history. 

"On the second night the band always comes," explains Eileen 
Yam (SY '97), a pod leader at this year's Conference. "So, that night 
all the Saybrook frosh were gathered, and we explained to them that 
tonight the YPMB is going to come and we're all going to strip 
when the band plays 'The Stripper.' We told them exactly how it 
was going to happen, how two minutes before we'll all yell 'shoes'-
the way we always do at the football games-then how we'd get up 
on stage and strip the way we always do, and the way it was when I 
was a freshman and I was on Conference. So, we went backstage, 
got ready to go on stage and got ready to strip, and the band just 
seemed confused. They played some songs and just never played 
'The Stripper.' Then they ran off. I figured that they were just 
pathetic and hadn't learned their music yet." Of course, these 
resilient Yalies didn't let this hardship stop them. "So, we just ran up 
on stage and stripped anyway without any music," Yam says. 

What Yam and all the attendees didn't know then was that the 
Strip would never be the same again. 
OCTOBER 11, 1996 

'' B 
and sucks! Band sucks!" screams Duane Campbell (SY ~ 
'98) sitting just over Gate l4B of the Yale Bowl during S 
the first home game of the 1996 Football season. ~ 
Nearing the end of the third quarter, Yale is down 35 to 6 against ~ 
their intrastate rival from the University of Connecticut, so any g' 
drama left on the field easily gives way to the drama unfolding in ~­
the bleachers. "Don't cheer for the band!" Campbell cries, trying to ;! 
rally his fellow Saybrugians to harangue the YPMB. The band has ~ 
moved from its regular position directly below Saybrook to seats ~ 
eight rows back and safely out of harm's way. As they g 
enthusiastically charge through another traditional number in an ~ 
attempt to drown out Campbell's shouts, he finally gets his fill of -
Sousa-inspired brass. Turning towards the band, face puffed up in 
anger, he yells, "Oh, just shut up!" 

As the third quarter nears, two defectors-YPMB members who 
also call Saybrook College their home-leave their places in the 
band and join their classmates in preparation for the Strip, music or 
not. 

As one of the students sheds her button-encrusted blue 
marching band blazer, a fellow turncoat exclaims with shock, 
"You're taking off the jacket!" 

"I'm taking it off," her stoic bandmate confirms. "I'm officially 
not part of the band for now. I'm with Saybrook." 


Speaking moments later on the 
condition that her identity be kept a secret 
("I don't want to make waves," she says), 
this tortured victim of a policy she did not 
create says, "Duffy's official position is that 
we're putting them on equal footing with all 
the other college traditions. We're not going 
to play anything. We don't want to come 
out against the band director. It's very 
political." 

Band announcer Brian Levinson (DC 
'99) says, "People have been asking me, 
'Dude, what's the story with "The 
Stripper?" Are you going to play it?' People 
throw food at the band. There will be no 
relenting." 

Two minutes before the end of the third 
quarter, Saybrook's nefarious plans for the 
Strip come to light. Saybrook has beeQ 
sending runners across the stadium on and 
off since half-time to negotiate with the 
UConn band to play "The Stripper." Their 
labors finally bear sweet fruit. "The 
opposing band is going to play the music 
for us!" exclaims Campbell. A quick martial 
chant of "UConn Band! UConn Band!" 
resounds from the assembled Saybrook 
students. 

But there is a slight_ snag. "OK They're 
going to try to play 'The Stripper,' but they 
don't have the music. So they're going to 
play something that matches the rhythmic 
structure of it," Campbell says. 

As the third quarter ends, the shoe is 
dropped, literally. Sneakers in hand, the 
Saybrook contingent drops its drawers just 
as the UConn band erupts into a rousing 
rendition of "Give Me Some Lovin'"-
indeed, a passable rhythmic match to the 
risque classic that usually accompanies the 
unveiling of Saybrook's pride and joy. 

The Strip continues ... for now. 

Flushed with their success with the 
UConn band, devoted Saybrugians are 
planning a loosely organized letter-writing 
campaign aimed at bands of opposing 
colleges, hoping they too, will play "The 
Stripper," or some other rhythmic 
equivalent, when they visit the Yale Bowl. 

((These are certainly hot-potato 
issues which the future of the 
institution does not depend 
on," President Richard Levin was quoted as 
saying in the Yale Daily Nws, begging off 
responsibility for mediating the struggle for 
the life of the Strip. 

But to the members of Saybrook 
College who are trying to maintain school 
spirit in an era of student apathy towards 
the residential college system, this is an 
issue on which the future of the institution 
depends. "They keep trying to keep people 
on campus, yet they're ending all the college 
traditions-which seems kind of crazy to 
me," says Eileen Burke (SY '97). vice-
president of the Saybrook College Council. 

It's hard to believe, but customs like the 
Strip at football games and nude runs across 
Old Campus during Future Freshmen Days 
are the only thing that prevent residential 
colleges from looking like more decrepit 
versions of the off-campus apartments that 
dot New Haven and that, increasingly, are 
the place to live if you want to avoid tiny 
rooms, communal bathrooms, and broken 
thermostats. 

If this university makes a habit of 
letting its traditions drop off one by one, 
who knows what will go next? Mter all, 
those dusty old Gothic buildings sure are a 
pain to keep clean. 


**Title: Hong Kong's Second Coming**
**Author: Dana Goodyear**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
As Chin.ese rule quickly approaches, Yale seeks out its niche in post-1997 Hong Kong. 
ong Kong's Second Coming 
''Hong Kong is an entrep6c," I was cold before I set off 
for this spot of soil in the South China Sea. When I 
asked my French-speaking friends for a cranslacion of 
the word, I got no definitive answer. I have now 
become more familiar with the word than I ever intended. A few days of 
reading back issues of a Hong Kong newspaper alerts me that "entrep6t" 
is quite a buzzword here. It means, I gather, a liaison-ground. I imagine 
a bustling train stop, where cargo is unloaded, reconfigured, reloaded. 
Another person describes. the Hong Kong-China relationship for me 
with a similar metaphor: "We ace the shop window; they are the shop 
floor." 

Thoughts of straight-up, unadulterated consumerism are hard to 
escape in Hong Kong. No inch of space goes unused, and every aspect 
of life is for sale. At the stroke of midnight on June 30, 1997, Hong 
Kong will reven co Chinese sovereignty afrer 99 years of British colonial 
rule. Not even chis all-imponant date goes unexploiced as a marketing 
stratagem: T-shirts bragging fallen Union Jacks abound; one can smoke 
a "1997" brand cigarette; the posh Club 1997 and its diminutive 
neighbor, Post-'97, draw elbowing crowds. 

I weave through the streets, where unintelligible sounds perplex my 
ears, neon characters blur before my eyes, and flyovers-tra.ffic-jacnmed 
highways of dubious stability-streak above my head. Ailey markets 
thicken the air with the smell of fruit left too long in the sun. 
I am on my way to meet Bob Bonds (BK '71), the mastermind of 
the Yale Club of Hong Kong. I need a job, and as one eager to tap into 
my Yale connection, he is the man to see. His office is a cool relief to the 
hoc, diesely streets. There are stacks of papers everywhere: invitations to 
the upcoming Glee Club concen, glossy posters of Harkness Tower as 
viewed through a spray of magnolias, Yale Club of Hong Kong 
newsletters. A schedule of Whim 'ri Rhythm events tops one stack; they 
are coming to Hong Kong at the month's end, following on the heels of 
the Whiffenpoofs. The fax machine beeps, the telephone rings, the 
computer whirs through its database ofYalies. 

This jumble is the only tangible evidence of the existence of the Yale 
Club of Hong Kong. "No fancy building?" I ask. This is it, the 
conference-cum-storage room of Bonds' publishing firm. What began in 
1979 when 15 Yale alumni got together for lunch has grown into a 
network chat is hundreds strong. "I'd have co verify chis," Bonds tells me 
early on, "but the AYA [Association of Yale Alumni] says that we're the 
most active Yale Club outside the U.S." He types my name and address 
imo the computer, and I become member No. 207. 

"What's happening between Yale and Hong Kong is chat the two are 
getting tighter," says Bonds. More, and younger, Yalies are coming to
Hong Kong. In return, more local Hong Kong high school students are 
going co New Haven to attend Yale. In 1995, the Yale-China 
Association expanded co include a summer program in American 
studies for young East Asian scholars and professionals. 

Y
ale's burgeoning interest in China seems counterintuitive at first. 
At a time whe,!l the world is wary of Hong Kong's future, when 
the stock market here has suffered from several crises of 
confidence, when many large businesses have relocated, when such basic 
guarantees as freedom of the press lose credibility every day, it strikes me 
as odd that Yale should choose to dig in its heels. 

In America, calk of the handover is heavy with fatalistic doomsday-
speak. There is the perception that from the colony's cracked cocoon a 
new Chinese metropolis will emerge. Many imagine the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) populated with People's 
Liberation Army cadets and Communist Party cadres. The excitement 
this event is generating-hotels all over the territory claim no vacancy-
is not surprising. It is one of those rare moments of predictable history. 
And the circumstances are peculiar: a piece of land born of British 
imperialism, synonymous with capitalism, is to be engulfed in the great 
bosom of communism. 

But if one believes the Basic Law, drafted to bring HKSAR into 
existence, the region will maintain its own ideology and economic 
struCture. Despite promises of "a high degree of autonomy," HKSAR 
will be an indivisible part of the People's Republic of China. Ar least 
until the year 2047, when the Basic Law expires. 

Bonds assures me that he is nothing but optimistic about Yale's 
status in Hong Kong, and in Asia at large. Five years ago, two Hong 
Kong tycoons, who had come across Yalies in their business and 
intellectual circles, donated $6 million to be shared by Yale and the 
Chinese University of Hong Kong (which hosts Yale-China's Hong 
~ 
Kong program). The gift puts the South China region on the academic s
map by giving Yale an incentive to increase its interest in the area. In !l 
addition, Bonds notes, "East Asian activities are growing like wild 
grass. Yale would be foolish not to tap into chat." 

Several days afrer my encounter with Bonds-which did not result 
l:G>~:
in a job, but generated frequent invitations to Yale cocktai.l parties and ; 
boating trips. as well as solicitations to host Whiffenpoofs and Glee 
dub members-! meet David Youtz, field staff director for the Yale-
China Association. We sit in the tea room of the Mandarin Hotel, 
tucked among the buildings of Central Hong Kong's posrcard skyline. 

This district is the territory's hub of finance and fashion fanaticism. 
Like Bonds, Youtz radiates an enthusiasm for the future. "Yale-China is 
an 'old friend of China' kind of an 
organization," he reassures me. "1997 won't 
make any difference to us." 


n 1901, when prior Western contact with 
China had been largely mercantile, the 
~ I
Yale-China Association set up shop in 
~ Changsha, Hunan Province. The small 
outcropping of buildings evolved into a vast 
educational complex composed of a medical 
<tl 
c 
0 
~ college, nursing school, middle school, and 
modern teaching hospital. Yale graduates 
traveled to Changsha to teach English and 
0 0 
Q. 
Western medical techniques. In return they 
learned Chinese. 

The Communist takeover in 1949 put a 
stop to all that; in 1950 Yale-China was 
summarily expelled from the mainland. By 
1954 Yale-China had regrouped and relocated 
in Hong Kong. President Richard Nixon's 
normalization campaign of the early 1970s 
resumed diplomatic ties between Washington 
and Beijing in 1979. The following year, Yale-
China returned to its old campuses on the
mainland. Throughout years of changing 
international politics, Yale-China maintained 
its Hong Kong branch. Accustomed to 
redefining its niche, Yale-China is pragmatic 
and resilient. Its directors view the upcoming 
change in Hong Kong as an opportunity 
rather than a setback. 

Youtz predicts that post-1997 Hong Kong 
will be a hotbed of East-West interaction, even 
more than it is today. Despite China's·efforts 
to control Hong Kong's population by 
enforcing tight borders between it and the 
mainland, an influx of Chinese is inevitable. 
And despite the hypochondriac worries that 
Westerners have for the market's health, 
Americans and Europeans eager to make a 
buck will still flock to the territory. Protocol 
for Yale-China in the coming years is to 
prepare Chinese students for a future full of 
Americans. Youtz laughs and comments, 
"Chinese students have some very weird ideas 
about what America is. They think that if they 
smoke Marlboro cigarettes and know about 
anything-goes capitalism they understand 
America." Surely such a warped perception 
cannot serve the business relations that are 
cropping up with increasing frequency 
between Americans and Chinese. 

Youtz speaks confidently about the 
ongoing, and intensified, need for Yale-China 
in Hong Kong. He reminds me of what I was 
told weeks ago back in New Haven. I visited 
the Yale-China headquarters-a small red and 
white colonial house at the corner of Temple 
and Trumbull Streets-to get some 
background information. Inside, I was 
surprised to hear the woman at the front desk 
chatting on the telephone in Cantonese: my 
first encounter with the syllables that would 
soon bewilder me. Nancy Chapman (BK '77), 
Yale-China's president and a graduate of the 
Yale-China program, popped her head around 
the corner. She conversed briefly with the 
woman, sliding easily into English out of 
consideration for me. 

In slighcly more impassioned terms, with a 
determination that makes Youtz seem almost 
casual, the otherwise soft-spoken Chapman 



**Title: Which Way to Go?**
**Author: Dana Goodytar**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
assured me, "There is no fear that the Yale-
China Association will leave. We've functioned 
quite successfully in [the People's Republic of] 
China for 16 years." Barring some unforeseen 
catastrophe-"and we're not anticipating 
anything of this sort," she added quickly-
Yale-China plans to adapt and persist. 
She admitted that change to the academic 
environment is inevitable; the same 
cosmopolitan environment and hands-off 
colonial government that account for Hong 
Kong's business success also foster its often 
overlooked intellectual community. The Yale-
China classrooms on the mainland function 
rather free of interference, notwithstanding the 
ever-watchful eyes of the 11-year-old Party 
monjtors installed in every classroom. But of 
late, China has intimated its discomfort with 
what goes on in the Hong Kong classrooms. 
Last summer, Chinese students planning to 
attend the Yale-China American studies 
program in Hong Kong were refused 
permission to leave the mainland. While never 
told explicitly why this decision was made, 
Yale-China officials do not believe that the 
issue was their curriculum. Students from 
Taiwan and Hong Kong were also to attend. It 
seems China saw the students from Taiwan, 
which Beijing considers a rebel state, and 
those from Hong Kong as potentially 
corruptive to the mainland students. 
More than most, Chapman is aware of the 
cultural gulf between people who have lived 
their entire lives on the mainland and the 
cosmopolitan residents of Hong Kong. She 
was among the first group of Yale graduates to 
return to the old Yale-China facilities in China 
after normalization. Mter over 30 years of 
American-Chinese estrangement, the two 
cultures held one another in mutual 
fascination. That fascination still exists, but is 
more focused now. "The Chinese see the U.S. 
as the key to their own modernization efforts. 
America has captured the Chinese 
imagination as a land of opportunity, of 
vitality, and of creativity," Chapman says. Yale-
China's aim in the upcoming years is to 
facilitate communication between Americans 
and Chinese. Where formerly this was a literal 
proposition centering around basic English 
instruction, Yale-China's role is now more 
expansive. Hong Kong's metamorphosis into 
HKSAR provides a vast arena for cultural 
exchange which Yale-China hopes to referee. 


**Title: Mapping the Mind**
**Author: Karen Jacobson**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T
he whiteness of the smooth inner skull appears, followed 
by the first of 124 slices of a child's brain, each 1.2 
millimeters thick. The slices pile on quickly, creating the 
sensation of a movie, building onto themselves as the 
little boy's brain is constructed. The sagittal cuts reach the midline, 
which is the profile of the human face and the brain it 
encompasses, and then quickly pass to the outer edge just inside 
the ear and temple, the folds of brain briefly visible before being 
surrounded by the protective skull. The picture resembles a science 
fiction plan for constructing artificial intelligence. On the 
computer screen, the image's motion gives the brain a tangible 
quality, as if this object moving towards the viewer could be lifted 
into reality and disassembled mechanically as easily as it has been 
assembled electronically. The screen to the right of the one 
displaying the brain receives new instructions and the little boy is 
told through the intercom: "Max, all set for the next set of 
pictures. Same type of noise, same length of time, same 
instructions. Don't move at all; talk to you in a bit." The churning 
begins again as a current runs through the wires of the imager, 
bumping against the wires' sides, and the next pictures are 
collected. 

"Yes! What a good little boy!" Dr. Bradley Peterson says as the 
previous image finishes appearing on the screen. "I'm always in 
such a good mood when the sagittal comes out." Peterson, a 
researcher in his mid-thirties, hops around behind the screens, 
grinning in glee and relief. To construct a complete image of the 
brain, the patient must hold his or her head absolutely still for 
twenty minutes. Although such a task is relatively easy for the 
average adult, who often falls asleep during that time, scanning a 
child is always a gamble. A child finds it difficult to hold still for 
that long, and any movement returns an image containing lines. 
Holding completely still is even harder for a person with Gilles 
de la Tourette's syndrome. Peterson's study attempts to capitalize 
on this magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technology to study 
Tourette's in both adults and children. A little boy Max's age would 
have difficulty lying still because of his tics-involuntary, sudden, 
recurrent movements or vocalizations. Although most people 
associate Tourette's with an individual who swears or makes 
obscene gestures uncontrollably, this occurs in only 10 percent of 
cases. A simple motor tic can appear as eye blinking, neck jerking, 
shoulder shrugging. Simple vocal tics include coughing, throat 
clearing, sniffing, grunting, and even barking. More complex vocal 
tics can be the repetition of words or phrases out of context. 
OCTOBER II, 1996 

Studying Tourette's syndrome represents an avenue by which to 
explore the vague boundaries between voluntary and involuntary 
behaviors. Everyone has compulsions to speak out at certain times 
or touch things that they know should not be touched. What keeps 
us from following through on those impulses? The MRI 
technology that Peterson uses may allow us to pinpoint where 
control of these actions resides in the brain. For an individual with 
Tourette's syndrome, the urge to tic persists until the action is 
performed. Individuals with Tourette's compare this feeling to an 
attempt to keep from blinking; eventually, the effort breaks down, 
and a person blinks. 

A nine-year-old boy describes his struggle with the disease 
during an interview with a child psychiatrist at the Yale Child 
Study Center, which is a world leader in the study of the disease 
and also Peterson's workplace. As the little boy plays with model 
soldiers, he says that his Tourette's is like the bad soldiers. The 
good soldiers at first beat and kill all the bad soldiers, just as the 
little boy can fight off his tics for a while. However, when all the 
bad soldiers are finally dead and the battle seems won, they rise up 
again and begin to beat the good soldiers. As he finishes this 
description, the little boy spins around to his left, touching the 
table behind him twice before spinning forward, looking up at the 
ceiling twice, and returning to play with his soldiers. 

F
or much of the twentieth century, experimental psychology 
focused on human behaviors. The brain was treated as a 
black box, inaccessible to scientists for explaining human 
actions. Tourette's syndrome was not appreciated as an organic 
imbalance or oddity in brain structure; it was treated as a mental 
disorder. The swearing and obscene gestures were viewed as 
residual developmental difficulty. Psychotherapy, however, has little 
impact on controlling tics in Tourette's. 

In the 1960s, scientists began to construct information 
processing models to explain how the brain is used when one 
thinks and how thinking is organized. This research was done 
mostly in animals, where specific lesions in the brain could be 
made. The animals' subsequent behavior was recorded and 
afterward their cerebral anatomy was studied further. In humans, 
much of the science focused on autopsy studies of people with 
specific behavior disorders. However, the trauma to the brain 
caused by death made the visible damage a poor indication of 
functional problems. Damage could have occurred from the way 
the person died or the aging process. The new MRI. technology 
., 

allows a healthy child to be interviewed, 
tested, and then, within a few hours, to 
have his brain measured and studied. 
Phrenology, the nineteenth-century belief 
that bumps on the skull correlate to 
personality types, has long been 
abandon~d. Yet scientists peering at the 
reconstructed brain image on the computer 
screen feel a certain kinship to that research 
of a century ago. They no longer crudely 
measure bumps, but they measure brain 
structures that govern human actions. 
When Peterson arrived at Yale in 1990, 
the MRI technology was available, but no 
one was using it to identify the specific 
changes in brain sfructure associated with 
neurological diseases. "I was amazed that 
MRI allowed us to study the brain 
structure of living children safely," Peterson 
says. "But no one at Yale was doing that 
kind of work. It was very hard at first; I 
had to feel my way blindly." Peterson now 
directs the Tourette's ·syndrome MRI 
project. He has recruited 160 children for 
the study, about 80 with Tourette's and 80 
who are normal controls. Before MRI 
technology was invented, there was little 
hope that brain sttucture changes 
associated with Tourette's would be· 
pinpointed. Because Tourette's is a 
childhood disease, 
decades often passed 
between 
the 
recording 
of tic 
symptoms and the 
death of indi-viduals, 
when the brain could 
be exam-ined. "There 
were only two good 
au-topsy cases for 
Tour-ette's," Peterson 
says. Now, 
using 
MRI, Peterson's study 
alone has produced 
the equivalent of 160 
child autopsies. 
When a child first 
arrives for scanning, 
he is interviewed, 
along with his par-
ents, to determine the 
severity of his Tour-
ette's. He is then 
taken to the MRI 
center at Yale-New 
Haven Hospital, which sits in the base-
ment of the medical school in a building 
adjacent to the Child Study Center. The 
machine used by Peterson is run by Hedy 
Sarofin. Sarofin sits on a high stool in front 
of the three screens which control the MRI 
scanner and display the images it captures. 
From her perch she gazes through the large 
panels of glass onto the MRI machine in 
the adjacent room. The door leading to 
that room bears warning signs in orange 
lettering, telling those who enter to remove 
all metal or magnetically coded objects 
from their bodies. Credit cards, for 
instance, are erased in the MRI room 
because the room is magnetized. Metal 
objects are tugged gently by the magnetic 
field; clip-ons might fly off women's ears, 
becoming dangerous projectiles. 
The room is off-white and the MRJ "' ~ 
machine dominates the space. Coils of 
magnet are contained in a large, beige 
plastic arch about two meters long with a 
table extending from it. The child walks 
into the room with his parents and sits on 
the table. He is given ear plugs to mute the 
loud churning of the machine. He lies 
down, resting his head in a helmet. His 
head is braced on either side by padding 
inside the helmet, which.concains the head 
coil. Attached to the helmet is a visor with 
a mirror, angled so that without moving his 
head the child can see his father who 
stands holding his feet for reassurance. His 
legs rest over two pillows to make him 
comfortable and his body is wrapped in 
blankets for warmth. A small piece of tape 
runs across his forehead and chin, 
anchored on either side to the head cradle. 
These can easily rip when tugged, but they 
help assure the patient that his head is not 
moving involuntarily. The motorized table 
moves the child into the bore of the 
magnet, which is typically 70 centimeters 
in diameter; the inside of the arch contains 
an intercom through which Sarofin can 
give updates on the scanning agenda. 
What is happening to the little boy as 
he lies as still as he can inside the magnet? 
In MRI scans of the brain, it is mainly the 
hydrogen in tissue water that is being 
imaged. When the child enters the 
magnetic field, the hydrogen atoms in his 
body align with the field in the same 
manner as a compass aligns with the earth's 
poles. 

The frequency at which the hydrogen 
nucleus oscillates in a magnetic field is its 
"resonant frequency." It is similar to the 
frequency of a compass needle rocking 
back and forth in the 
earth's magnetic field. 
The compass can be 
stimulated to rock by 
tapping its glass cover 
case; the nucleus of a 
hydrogen atom is 
stimulated by sending 
pulses of radio waves 
at the tissue. When 
the waves are at the 
appropriate frequency, 
the hydrogen atom is 
excited. It then falls 
back into the original 
magnetic field, emit-
ting waves that can be 
detected by a short 
wave-radio antenna 
and receiver in the 
head coil. As with the 
compass needle, the 
resonant frequency of 
the stimulated hydro-
gen is proportional to 




**Title: Mapping the Brain**
**Author: Kaun Jacobson**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the external field strength. For the 
compass, the frequency of the swinging 
motion increases as it is carried up the 
magnetic gradient from the equator toward 
the North Pole, where the magnetic field is 
stronger. A person can locate where he or 
she is in the world by the amount of 
rocking and where the needle points. In 
MRI, the scanner creates artificial 
gradients. The gradient field strength 
changes in a well-defined manner from 
place to place in the brain as it is being 
scanned. The location of the hydrogen in 
the body can be determined from the 
resonant frequency, since that correlates to 
the gradient field strength. 

The MRI scan is the equivalent of 
freezing a head, cutting it into transverse 
slices, then physically cutting it into tiny 
square cylinders. Each 1 millimeter 
cylinder occupies a known position in the 
original slice. The computer measures the 
amount of hydrogen in the brain tissue 
water in each cylinder and shows them as a 
particular brightness on the computer 
screen in proportion to that amount. To 
produce a usable picture, the computer 
carries out a classical mathematical 
maneuver known as a fourier transform. 

W
th the scanning completed, the 
child's brain is stored on an 
optical disk, which is similar to 
a compact disc, . and moved to the 
diagnostic radiology imaging center on the 
fifth floor in a different wing of the 
medical school. Far from a morgue, this 
aseptic room filled with high-tech 
computers holds on its optical disks the 
equivalent of hundreds of human brains in 
jars. 

Joel Klein (ES '96) was working on the 
Peterson 
project 
as 
a 
computer 
operationalise last spring. He measured the 
structures and created, with Peterson and 
Larry Staib, a computer programmer, the 
algorithms to put these images to their best 
use. People involved with MRI tend to be 
young. Older researchers have more 
difficulty wrapping their minds around the 
new technology, combining an under-
standing of medicine with computer 
programming. The change in technology 
has transformed the technicians from 
biologists and anthropologists to 
radiologists, physicists, electrical engineers, 
and diagnostic radiologists. Slicing the 
brain no longer requires a steady hand and 
knowledge of tissue differences, but an 
understanding of computer language. 

"This work has applications to robot 
vision," says Joel. "If you want a robot to 
walk down a hall and turn left at the next 
door, it needs to find the door. Just as it 
must extract the door from the 
surrounding features, we want to extract 
the corpus from the brain." 

Joel sits with the large computer screen 
in front of him, rolling back and forth on 
his chair and whistling quietly to the 1970s 
tunes coming from the radio on his right. 
He is the classic image of the cocky, young 
computer jock. The computer in front of 
him is named "Fovea," after the portion of 
the eye with the keenest perception. A long 
vertical rectangle on the screen has lists of 
commands that Joel enters in his attempts 
to run the measurements he desires. 

"What I am interested in right now is 
trying to figure out how big the ventricles 
in this kid's brain are," Joel says. He moves 
his cursor to the long, vertical window and 
types "analyze" at the prompt. This· starts 
Analyze, th e compu.ter program that 
reconstructs the brain in 3-D on the 
screen. In a flash, the Analyze logo appears 
followed by a dark blue screen with files 
holding commands. With a few more spins 
of the mouse, Joel opens a file holding the 
sagittal cuts of one patient. The skull and 
the fluid that bathes the brain have been 
removed, leaving a clean profile slice. 

Major structures are easily visible by their 
color differences, such as the corpus 
callosum, which is very light gray in 
comparison to the structures surrounding 
it. Other structures are visible to Joel's eye 
from his knowledge of brain markers, 
equivalents to the north star when one is 
locating constellations in the night sky . 

"There is a lot of fluid called 
cerebrospinal fluid that basically bathes the 
brain and surrounds the skull," Joel says. 
"There are also channels or rivers of fluid 
that run in very distinct, discrete regions of 
the brain called ventricles." In some 
diseases, in particular Tourette's syndrome, 
these ventricles are enlarged, as they are in 
people with Alzheimer's disease. Peterson's 
group believes that a degenerative process 
occurs with Tourette's syndrome, 
diminishing some parts of the brain, 
leaving behind the larger ventricles. 

Measuring the spaces between areas of the 
brain, however, is not as simple as pulling 
out a ruler or telling the computer to "go." 
To take measurements, Joel wants to use a 
3-D morphology program to first plug the 
little holes that appear as little yellow spots 
in the ventricles, making the pixels of a 
structure into a uniform intensity. He then 
plans to subtract everything from this 
plugging operation, leaving the ventricles 
behind. 

"It won't let me do 3-D morphology on 
this," Joel mutters. "Why is that?" Much of 
the time the technician or programmer is 
struggling to get the available sofrware to 
do what he or she wants it to do. 'We can 
say, for instance, we want to measure the 
ventricles and then the whole trick of this 
is persuading the software to actually do 
that, Joel says. 

Taking a tour of the brain, Joel runs the 
cursor around the image pointing to the 
major landmarks. "The corpus callosum is 
historically an important structure," Joel 
says. The corpus is an enormous band of 
tissue t hat bridges the left and right 
hemispheres of the brain. The Peterson 
study believes that the shape and size of the 
corpus callosum may be one distinguishing 
factor in subjects with Tourette's syndrome. 

"We believe that especially the frontal 
portions here, this part that is sort of 
bulbous, may be important in attention-
related tasks and tasks of motor 
movement," Joel explains. If Peterson's 
study can successfully pinpoint where the 
difficulty in controlling actions resides, 
interventions to control diseases in which 
people lose control, such as Tourette's, 
might be more successful with fewer side 
effects. Peterson believes, though, that 
Tourette's more likely affects many brain · 
regions; especially with more complicated 
behaviors, such as volition, control will 
probably reside in numerous locations 
around the brain. 

T he advances that this research has 
allowed are more fully appreciated when 
compared to the techniques of only a 
decade ago. "The big landmark study of 
the corpus callosum was of nine men and 
five women," says Joel. Obtaining that 
number of usable autopsies is difficult. The 
1982 study, by Columbia University 
anthropologists Christine de Lacoste-
Utamsing and Ralph L. Holloway, 
published in Science, concluded that the 
back of the corpus is more bulbous and 
larger in women than men. The Peterson 
group has proven th em wrong. The 
techniques of little over a decade ago seem 
archaic compared to the precision of the 
computer measurements. In the old days, 
when the brain was first removed from the 
head, its soft tissue was suspended for three 
weeks in a solution containing saline and 
other chemicals to ensure that the brain 
retained its original shape. "They literally 
would slice the brain in half, slap down the 
corpus on paper, hope the paper didn't get 
too wet, trace it, blow it up on a slide 
projector on a big wall covered with paper, 
and use that to compare volumes," Joel 
marvels with the confidence of one who 
has found a better route. Once the brain is 
sliced, it could not be resliced or used 
again. "We are doing an in vivo study here, 
meaning the people are still alive," Joel 
says. "So, we can give them other tests and 
gather pharmacological information from 
blood samples. The computer is just so 
much more accurate, and, of course, far 
less invasive." 

T he MRI techn ology th at Joel so 
comfortably plays with may give us a new 
window onto the effects of our actions and 
a new understanding of why we do what 
we do. Localizations of behavior to brain 
regions in diseases such as Tourette's will 
lead us to a better understanding of normal 
behavior and development. T he folds of 
the brain reveal a person's experience, just 
as rings on a tree reflect the plant's history. 
An alcoholic often has enlarged ventricles, 
appearing as larger gaps between folds, 
while a pianist has a larger region that 
sends messages to the hands. As Max leaves 
the MRI center, a visual copy of his brain 
remains on optical disk. H is body contains 
no visual trace or scar, yet his brain can 
now be disassembled and dissected. His 
brain may provide insight into his actions 
and predict his future, if we can learn to 
unscramble the code. 


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Every so often I look up from my desk and see two photo albums 
sitting on my shelf, waiting patiently for an eager audience. The 
albums are filled with pictures of aquamarine oceans flooding 
onto Besh-colored sand, wet-eyed sea lion pups sniffing my 
fingers, and Maori carvings of men with tongues thrust between their 
teeth. The pictures serve as.memories of my semester in New Zealand, 
and also as proof that the days I recall from the Land of the Long White 
Cloud acrually happened. 

Before leaving, I daydreamed of the exotic life I would find in a 
foreign country-a Life so removed from Yale, I would hanlly recognize 
rhe land, the culture, or even myself. As it does for many students 
endeavoring to study abroad, the Yale bureaucracy tried to dissuade me 
from pursuing academics beyond Yale. Bur I remembered the words of a 
Princeton friend who spent a semester in Africa: "Lots of people who 
don't srudy abroad say they wish they had, but I don't know anyone who 
studied abroad who wished they hadn't." 

For years, I told myself I would miss nothing earth-shattering by 
leaving Yale for a semester. Bur when ir came down to packing up a 
dorm room of belongings and saying goodbye to everyone and 
everything on campus for nine months, I wondered whether I was doing 
the right thing. Was it stupid to leave now, when I had finally found my 
niche at Yale, had a group of good ftiends, felt like the things I do here 
matter? My friends will grow together while I drift away from them, I 
thought. They will change. I will change. Maybe we won't fit together 
anymore. I will be alone in a foreign country, starting from scratch. 

When I rerum to Yale, I might fed alone and have to start over again. I 
panicked. But I scuffed my backpack, heaved it onto my back, and took 
off on Qanras Flight 109. 

To months later I was taking off again, this time for the final 
segment of my program, the independent srudy project. Even 
with ten weeks in New Zealand under my belt. I felt nervous. I 
heaved my pack over my shoulders for the hundredth painful time and 
headed towards the bus stop. Alone. What bad I gotten myself into, with 
five weeks of solitary rravd and research ahead of me? 

After two weeks of research, however, I felt brashly confident, secure 
in the knowledge that I was a Yale student conducting significant 
research in a foreign country, independent of my home institution, my 
family, or any familiar surroundings. 

I was on my way to Nelson for phase two of my research, but the 
bus I hopped on this time was not trustwonhy. I should have been 
skeptical when I saw fifteen other sears, all conspicuously empty. Barry's 
Bus was dilapidated and near-collapse. Ten minutes into the ride, the 
engine surrendered to old age with a few mighty chugs and a clanking 
grand finale. The overweight bus driver turned to me and said in a thick 
Kiwi accent, "I hope you don't mind my company, because it looks like 
we'll be here for a while." I managed a cross between a smile and a 
grimace, wishing desperately that I had not been Barry's sole passenger. 

Now it was just me and the grinning bus driver who stood smoking on 
the roadside, with f.illing cigarette ashes catching on the shelf of his belly. 

I hopped out and began to consider hitchhiking, when along carne 
my knight in shining black Ford Explorer. To my chagrin, he had 
stopped because he knew the bus driver. My heart dropped in my chest 
as I heard them chatter, but when the man offered me a ride to the next 
bus station, I was quick to accept. We introduced ourselves and I told 
him I was headed to Nelson. He said, "Really? Me, too." My eyebrows 
lifted and my smile perked up. The next four-and-a-half hours were a 
blissful free ride up the rocky coast. Upon arriving in Nelson, we spent 
45 minutes looking for my youth hostd. We drove in circles around the 
city, trying desperately ro read the one-inch square map in the Nw 
aaland Backpackm' Handbook. When the man finally left me at the 
proper street comer, he would not even let me reimburse him for gas. 

In Nelson, I wandered the streets feeling more lonely than I bad in 
months. I had been in small New Zealand towns by myself, but this 
was a big city, at least by Kiwi standards. Small towns feel homey 
even when you don't know anyone. Big cities do not. As I passed clumps 
of people on the street, all I could think was that no one here knew my 


--- Page 29 ---

name. More importantly, no one cared. 

I ducked into a coffee shop to calm my growing sense of despair. 
Pulling out my notebook, I noticed a man across from me staring at my 
work. "Are you a srudent?" he asked in a voice too loud and slurred for a 
coffee shop. I smiled, nodded, and huddled over my paper. "There's no 
point in doing all that work. It won't get you anywhere unless you have a 
Ph.D." With my Ph.D. nowhere in sight, I ignored his comment. But 
he needed no encouragement. "Do you got some Jewish in you?" he 
asked. "You got a big nose." 

I looked up at him and cringed in disbelief 
"You're beautiful, though," he said, nearly f.illing off of his stool. "I 
could love you." 

I shoved my notebook into my backpack, made a run for the door, 
and let my tears dissolve into the evening air. That night I walked back 
to the youth hostel with my pocket knife in hand, blade out and ready in 
case of emergency. I was not taking any chances. 

By the next night, I had moved to a youth hostel in a better part of 
town, completed successful research in the Nelson Public Library, 
booked a bus reservation to my next destination, and planned an 
excursion to glorious Abel Tasman National Park. The events of the 
evening before seemed long ago and far away. 

What had changed? I took comfort in the fact that I was learning to 
be alone without being lonely. 

In another two weeks I was in Gisbome, working with the Maori 
community liaison at the Department of Conservation. In my spare 
time I walked on the beach and scroUed about town. One Sunday night, 
l went to a live jazz show at a local restaurant. I was the only person there 
without a date, or at least a friend. I did not feel conspicuous walking in 
alone, bur I guess I looked odd to the twenrysomethings whose table I 
joined. They struck up a conversation and poured me some wine. Three 
bottles later we were having dinner next door and they were offering to 
take me out on the town. As we made plans for the foUowing evening, 
one said she was impressed that I had dared to go to the concert alone 
OCTOBER n, 1996 

Back at the youth hostel, the room was spinning as I called a friend 
from my program whose independent study project had taken her to a 
different destination. "What's wrong with you?" she asked. "Are you 
laughing or crying?" 

I slumped over the phone in a fit of drunken giggles. "Laughing," I 

Four months later, I made an entirely different kind of trip. I was on 
my way back to New Haven. I thought that returning to school 
after the summer break would prove insignificant. After all, 
everyone had been away from campus and had a relatively clean slate. 
But things feel different now. People look at me quizzically when 
they pass me on the cobblestones between classes. "I haven't seen you in 
a while," they say with raised eyebrows, as though I had been hiding in 
my room last semester. 

Those who know of my absence ask politely, "How was it?" But they 
seem discouraged when there is no pat answer. So, I have narrowed 
down my description to "it was great," which suits their expectations just 
fine. 

The friends and activities I left behind are still here, but some of my 
fears have come true: they have changed, and I have changed. In many 
ways, I am as alone here as I was when there were 13,000 miles, a 
continent, and an ocean between New Haven and me. 

And so what? My friends are still my friends, my activities are still 
my activities, Yale is sciU my university. I realized quickly that I did not 
miss anything life-altering by leaving campus. I also understand that it 
might take me a while to get my bearings again. But my friend from 
Princeton was right: bureaucracy aside, I hold no regrets about my 
decision. My photo albums may sit on my shelf without a rapt audience, 
but I know they are there. Looking at them by myself, I can be JW 
content. 

Hillary Margolis, a smior in Mont: Coikgt, is tdimr-in-chiifofTNJ. 


**Title: It's Like Butter**
**Author: Dan Murphy**
**Page number(s): 30**

"There's a fucking stick of butter walking around," said 
Conan O'Brien, laughing and shaking his head. "It's like 
something we'd make up on the show." 

It might as well have been television at the celebrity 
softball game at Yale Field on September 21. Familiar faces 
from the boob tube abounded, and the bright overhead 
lights and sedate audience gave the small stadium the 
atmosphere of a TV studio. The cast starred O'Brien, 
Patrick Ewing, Tom· Brokaw and a slew of other 
individuals of varying degrees of fame, each of whom 
acted the role of hero-as-fund-raiser for Connecticut's 
Special Olympic athletes. 

Like most everything on TV, this night didn't 
feature a great deal by .way of plot, but the game itself 
was not without excitement. In the · second inning O 'Brien 
ripped a line drive up the middle, which UConn Husky point- 
guard Jen Rizotti turned into a diving double play (O'Brien 
acknowledged his defeat with an elaborate on-field bow 
towards Rizotti). John Starks, the New York Knicks guard, 
made a great grab in center field to steal an otherwise certain · 
double. And Mike Lupica, New York's p rominen t sports 
columnist, treated the crowd to some aggressive base-running 
when he tried to stretch a double into a triple, even though he got 
naHed at third. 

Even without any gut-wrenching drama, the night's 
programming was noteworthy because of the cast, and what the 
celebrities assembled indicated about the setting. For most of the 
celebrity participants, New Haven is just New York's 
northernmost suburb. Jump in your limo or your Pathfinder at 
Rockefeller Center, and in an hour-and-a-half you're on Whalley 
Avenue. But while the celebriry faces temporarily lent Big Apple 
glitz to Yale Field, the evening also featured reminders that New 
Haven isn't New York, and that the Elm Ciry has an ill-defined 
but undeniable identiry of its own. 

Like all minor league cities, New Haven has a prominent 
mascot, responsible for distracting the spectators from the poor 
qualiry of play that characterizes minor league ball. On this night, 
Rally Raven, New Haven's 6-foot tall black bird, entertained the 
crowd between innings by challenging fans to dizzy-izzy foot-
races: competitors placed their foreheads on top of baseball bats, 
spun around the bats until dizzy, and fell all over 
themselves as they attempted to run to the finish line. 
The fans loved it. 

For Ravens games, Rally Raven is usually able to work 
the sidelines on his own, but since the celebrities 
promised to be a tougher bunch than minor leaguers, an 
elite corps of mascot reserves had been called up for 
cameo appearances. Enter Supercow, a large bovine with 
a giant S above her udders, there on behalf of Guida 
Dairies, a local milk supplier and big supporter of the 
Special Olympics. Supercow entertained fans by dancing 
the macarena on top of the first-base dugout. 

But without a doubt, the star of the mascot 
triumvirate, and the most ludicrous, was a giant stick of 
butter plodding slowly around the field. To promote its 
product, the Keller Butter Company dressed someone in a 
large off-white box with two eyes and a big smile, decorated 
with a blue ribbon. The mascot stole the show. 

The appeal· of the evening's star-studded cast is obvious. 
The fans, who paid $7 to support the Special Olympics, 
were hoping to get a closer look at celebrities that they usually see 
only on TV. This was a chance for New Havenites to touch the 
untouchables. Yet in the midst of aU these celebrities, why did 
fans still cheer for a dizzy-izzy race and a dancing cow? 

On the sit-com that is the American ciry, New Haven is the 
family pet, the likable and well-known underdog that lacks the 
full-fledged glitz of the show's star. A stick of butter, a dancing 
cow, and a silly bird wouldn't stand much of a chance at Yankee 
Stadium, but in New Haven, this kind of small-time hokeyness is 
acceptable. New Haven may be big and cosmopolitan enough to 
draw major celebrities like O'Brien and Brokaw, but it is also. 
small and intimate enough that inane mascots can upstage prime-
time personalities. 

New Haven is a ciry in limbo, caught somewhere between 
New York and Mayberry. On the night of the celebriry game it 
was easy to pretend that every night in New Haven resembles a 
TV show. But for the rest of the year, it's nice to walk down the 
street and know that you're less likely to see a celebriry than you 
are to see your TA, your friend, or for that matter, a walking stick 
of butter. 

Don Murphy, a ;unior in Timothy Ov.tight College, is business manager ofTNI. 



**Title: Print and Mail Services**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Print and 
Mail 
Services 
155 Whitney Avenue 
432-6560 
~X: 432-6274 
EMAIL.: AFDL..ETII@Yale.ADS 
149 York Street 
432-2679 
ALSO OFFERING 
Full color copies 
Course materials 
Complete mail service 
Graphic design 
Affordable Copies 
Quick turnaround 
Offset printing 
High quality 
Pickup and 
delivery 
Optical character recognition 
Network accessibility 
~ 


**Title: What's your hurry?**
**Page number(s): 32**

I am going straight to: 
·CD Law School 
IT) Graduate School 
CD Medical School (]) All of the above 
What's your hurry? 
."My only regret is having gone straight to law school '' 
-Bill C., B.A., J.D. 
"JI,.,. + 
, 
. .1v1e ,oo. 
-Hillary C, B~. , J.D. 
"I squandered my youth collecting degrees. " 
-Albert E, B.S., M.S., PH.D., PH.D., PH.D. 
Talk it over with recent Yale graduates who are working as 
Business Analysts for two years at McKinsey & Company. 
Tuesday, November 20, 1996 
7 PM Bar's Brii Room, 254 Crown St. 
with lots of study break brain-food and drink 
McKinsey&Company,Inc. 

