Publication date: February 2014
Volume: 46
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Tessa Berenson
- Editors-in-chief: Sophia Nguyen, Cindy Ok
- Executive editor: Benjamin Mueller
- Managing editors: Eric Boodman, Julia Calagiovanni
- Design editors: Lian Fumerton-Liu, Emmett Kim, David Shatan-Pardo
- Photo editor: Maya Binyam
- Senior editors: Tao Tao Holmes, Isabel Ortiz, Emma Schindler
- Associate editors: Maya Averbuch, Lara Sokoloff, A. Grace Steig, Ike Swetlitz
- Copy editors: Nathalie Levine, Justine Yan
- Staff writers: Ashley Dalton, Arielle Stambler
- Members and directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O’Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- A Tale of Two Supermarkets - Meredith Redick
- Against the Tide - Ike Swetlitz
- Lessons in Looking - Andrew Wagner
- Beyond Fossil Free - Ashley Dalton
- Real Kid Talk - Isabelle Taft
- points of departure - various authors


**Title: A Tale of Two Supermarkets**
**Author: Meredith Redick**
**Page number(s): 16**

A Tale of Two Supermarkets
A writer evaluates the promises two markets made a hungry city.


**Title: Against the Tide**
**Author: Ike Swetlitz**
**Page number(s): 28**

Against the Tide
Is destructive beach erosion simply inevitable?


**Title: Lessons in Looking**
**Author: Andrew Wagner**
**Page number(s): 4**

Lessons in Looking


**Title: Beyond Fossil Free**
**Author: Ashley Dalton**
**Page number(s): 11**

Beyond Fossil Free


**Title: Real Kid Talk**
**Author: Isabelle Taft**
**Page number(s): 23**

Real Kid Talk


**Title: points of departure**
**Author: various authors**
**Page number(s): 26**

points of departure


**Title: endnote**
**Author: Madeleine Witt**
**Page number(s): 35**

endnote



**Title: letter from the editors**
**Author: Sophia Nguyen and Cindy Ok**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Dear reader,  
Men joining roller derbies, theater with audience as actor, a stolen lamp that took a church’s his­
tory with it. Urban squash leagues and Tolstoy marathons. Budget cuts on food stamps and a gang ini­tiative that tries to define community. The stories we’ve loved publishing in our five issues have been 
about borders of all kinds—about setting and learning them, about crossing or bridging them. Borders 
give us order, marking guarantees and edges. They tell us what we are, and help us decide who we want 
to be.  

Our state borders are at their most militarized, with almost two million deported under Obama; 
meanwhile, the line between private and public is dissolved with “global surveillance.” Questions 
of borders are more pressing than ever. Are they human nature, and will they always be? When 
we study any moment of history, we see that progress is always about breaking down the arbitrary 
demarcations about familiarity, custom, and ego that separate people, and about living out the 
natural ones that connect: fear and pride, grief and hope, life and death.   

We’re told that good fences make good neighbors. We are interested in trespass. This issue brings 
you the stories of a disappearing coastline and a fight over a narrow walkway; city maps, new and old; a 
prisoner taking freedom through words; the blurring between activist causes.  Rules are useful—until 
they control you, in the same way that walls can be great friends and great foes. We hope that in this 
and our other issues, we’ve given you a window through.

Thank you to our talented editorial board, our wonderful and wonderfully honest advisors, and of 
course, to our loyal readers. 

With Love and Squalor, 

Sophia Nguyen and Cindy Ok 
Editors-in-Chief


**Title: The Same Old Song**
**Author: Mona Cao**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

When I walk into the large room jutting out of 
Tony DeLucia’s garage, I am momentarily lost in 
time. A metallic 1947 Wurlitzer jukebox stares 
at me from across the room. My eyes pick out 
a British Invasion pinball machine from the 
seventies, and a hefty silver-and-bronze See­
burg jukebox from the fifties. The jukebox 
plays songs like the Wurlitzer and The Crests’ 
doo-wop hit “Sixteen Candles,” and the pinball 
machine sits by the back wall beneath a wooden 
shelf displaying rainbow-colored records, and 
glass soda bottles. I’ve walked into another de­
cade, but I’m not quite sure which one. 

DeLucia strides over to me, his hands ca­
sually slipped into his pockets. “Do you mind 
if I write this down? I forgot a tape recorder,” I 
explain, and he laughs. “Sure. Why not? I guess 
you’ll just have to do it the old-fashioned way.” 
DeLucia opened his shop, Antique Amuse­
ment Services, in Hamden thirty-three years 
ago, so he knows “old-fashioned” better than 
anyone else. “I’ve been doing this part-time—all 
the time—since I was young,” he explains. In the 
last few decades, he has repaired everything 
from vintage soda machines to coin-slot arcade 
games for clients all around the Northeast. He 
has made a name for himself, literally—people 
call him “Tony the Jukebox Man.” “It just sort of 
stuck,” he says.   

Here in his workshop are the days of can­
dy parlors, soda fountains, and drive-in movie 
theaters. Black-and-white photos of smiling 
quartets in matching blazers and dresses cover 
the walls; I pick out Elvis but the rest are unfa­
miliar. I can imagine people coming to Antique 
Amusement Services, mesmerized by visions 
of apple-pie America. But as I turn back to De­
Lucia, I realize he must recognize my brand of 
nostalgia after seeing it time and time again, 
the obsession with the proof of the past, indul­
gences he has learned to treat with care.

DeLucia is the son of a mechanic, and he 
remembers learning to appreciate his father’s 
technical and artistic skill. After trade school, 
he repaired mainframe computers, carrying his 
father’s work into the modern era. Jukebox ma­
chines were his part-time focus for eight years 
until he left the computer industry to found an 
antiques company out of his home in Hamden.

These days, Tony spends much of each day 
working alone. He consults with his wife over 
business matters, but the rest of the time he 
disassembles, rewires, and repaints old ma­
chines. Each one has a motor and an amplifier, 
though the mechanics and designs often vary. 
Some need chrome plating while others re­
quire specific paint tones and gas pipes. It’s “old 
equipment, but new and different all the time,” 
he tells me.

During his busy six-day workweek, DeLucia 
visits customers in New Jersey, New York, Con­
necticut, and Massachusetts. “I’ll just about go 
anywhere,” he says, and his repaired machines 
have done their own traveling, starring along­
side Robert DeNiro and decorating the houses 
of Whitney Houston and Keith Richards. But, 
out of the 2,600 clients he works with, most are 
elderly couples and families. Some people show 
up every few months; others every few years, 
for tune-ups. DeLucia likes keeping his busi­
ness personal. 

“Individuals are always better than compa­
nies,” he tells me. “It’s easier to work with hu­
mans.” 

In the workshop, as I take in the time warp 
around us, DeLucia keeps his eyes fixed on me. 
He reminds me that repairing antiques is no 
game: “It’s a job. It’s an interesting job, but it 
has its headaches too.” Impossible restorations. 
Long trips to Manhattan and Massachusetts. 
Equipment that never arrives. 

DeLucia isn’t one to get swept up in memo­
ries, but he’s pleased when his customers share 
his enthusiasm for these clunky, colorful game 
boxes. It’s the newest generation that gives 
him the greatest pleasure, the ones who come 
in with family heirlooms in the trunk. He re­
members fixing a jukebox belonging to a cus­
tomer’s late grandfather, and dropping it off at 
the Manhattan apartment where the client had 
gathered the whole family to receive it. 

Over the course of a day, DeLucia some­
times tries out the machines in his workshop 
while on break. He will play a quick game of 
pinball, or play one of his favorite records on 
one of the jukeboxes. Then he gets back to his 
fixing and refixing, the music playing as he 
works. Though he walks me through the me­
chanics of various machines, the moments that 
stick with me are not the names of the parts 
and their mechanisms, but his own moments of 
reminiscence.

“It’s a very good feeling,” he tells me, “bring­
ing something back to life.”
—Adam Echelman


**Title: Sharpened Points**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

A lot of mapmakers end up selling posters, Yale 
professor Bill Rankin tells me, but he wants his 
projects to be something more. He wants to rei­
magine the conventions of cartography, going 
beyond images you could hang for display or 
decoration. A Rankin map might be aestheti­
cally pleasing, but you can be sure it will also be 
intellectually challenging.

Rankin grew up in the orderly grid of Chi­
cago, where he always knew which way north 
was. When he moved to Philadelphia in 1999, 
he turned to mapping as a way of situating him­
self in his new environment. Mapmaking pro­
vided him a point of entry into the narrative of 
the city, a way of understanding both the plac­
es he frequented and those he didn’t. Moving 
to Boston for graduate school disoriented him 
again, and he learned to understand its winding 
roads and racial divisions by drawing them. In 
2003, Rankin created a depiction of the city’s 
subway system, highlighting the ways in which 
its connections and dead ends contributed to 
racial segregation by neighborhood. He decided 
to share his work. He considered hanging print­
outs of the map at stops, confusing travelers 
just enough to provoke questions about access. 
Ultimately, he built a website, radicalcartog­
raphy.net, which hosts this and his other proj­
ects. Sometimes, he uploads them to Wikipedia, 
where they often become the standard maps on 
their subjects.

“Radical Cartography wasn’t so much about 
making maps that were part of radical activism, 
but rather part of a radical new way of making 
maps,” Rankin said. He decides what’s visible 
and invisible, rather than deferring to the gov­
ernment, or to Google. “Often, mapping is done 
with a preconceived idea of what the relevant 
boundaries are,” he explained. “We assume that 
state boundaries are important, and so we map 
with those in mind.”

Rankin does not follow the common prac­
tices of the maps found in textbooks, which 
often shade in borders according to language, 
religion, or economic conditions, with a broad 
brush. He peels back the traditional base layers 
of maps to allow the data to show more complex 
patterns. Above all, he values detail. His dot 
maps display each individual data point rather 
than shaded averages—the more granular the 
data, the more descriptive the map. As a result, 
he is limited by the availability of good data; for 
instance, he has shied away from mapping obe­
sity because reliable statistics only exist at the 
state level. Still, he brings obscure information 
into the public light in sometimes whimsical 
ways. He recently mapped a web survey asking 
French citizens how many times they kissed 
in greeting, the results outlining unofficial re­
gions that emerge through custom. 

Since he moved to East Rock in 2011 to 
teach history of science at Yale, Rankin has 
again familiarized himself with a new city 
through his craft. In August 2012, Rankin cre­
ated two “heat maps” that showed the epicen­
ters of initiated and already-foreclosed homes 
in the city. Red blotches blossom in areas with 
moderate amounts of foreclosure, yellow areas 
have higher rates, and white designates the 
foreclosure hotspots of the city. 

Carla Weil, executive director of the Great­
er New Haven Community Loan Fund, who 
herself majored in geography at UCLA, appre­
ciates the logic behind Rankin’s maps. “I think 
of things in terms of maps,” she said. “I see the 
overlays of factors.” She points to two yellow 
hot spots on the map of initiated foreclosures, 
one in the Hill and one in Fair Haven. “These 
two crescents were surprising to me,” she said. 
By comparing the sizes of those hotspots to 
those on the map of completed foreclosures on 
Rankin’s maps, Weil found that almost none of 
the threatened foreclosures actually happened 
in the Hill, while in Fair Haven, most did.

Rankin was also surprised by the outcome 
of his project. “The narrative we hear in the 
national press is really about hard-hit middle 
class families, because there’s a clear kind of 
moral agony in there,” he said. “But the actual 
geography of foreclosure is that the places that 
are already struggling are the places that are 
hit the most.”

The maps have allowed the Weil and her 
colleagues to decide which areas most need 
their canvassers, and to correct imbalances in 
outreach and counseling services. They also 
helped the group secure funding. Hard num­
bers can only communicate so much, says Bri­
anna Gavigan, programs manager of the Great­
er New Haven Community Loan Fund. Rankin’s 
maps illustrate the impact of foreclosures with 
precision, locating them in familiar places. 

While not all of Rankin’s maps are motivat­
ed by issues as serious as foreclosure, they all 
result from his desire to better understand his 
world. When he wanted to know if an animal’s 
evolutionary development played a role in the 
ethics of eating the animal, he turned to map­
ping, creating “Eat the Animalia?” which now 
hangs outside his office. Using seafood ratings 
from the Monterey Bay Aquarium and typical 
farming conditions for poultry and livestock, 
he color-coded an evolutionary cladogram, 
or tree, and found new patterns. A formerly 
a strict vegetarian, Rankin was surprised to 
find that sardines were a far more sustainable 
source of protein than cage-farmed eggs. After 



**Title: Lost and Found**
**Author: Mary Mussman**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
february 2014
7
Lost and Found
The trees on the New Haven Green are some­
how unexpected. Many of their old trunks are 
too wide to measure with outstretched arms, 
and yet I might not have paid attention to them 
in all the open space. It was the maps of New 
Haven that have taught me to truly look at 
them. One map, from 1748, marks out two trees 
on the Green and labels each of them—“2 Trees 
Planted in 1686”—the way a church or town hall 
might be identified. I cannot find them, and I 
doubt that they still stand centuries later.


The earliest map of New Haven, drawn 
in 1641 by John Brockett, depicts the city as 
a swath of white space bounded by today’s 
George, York, Grove, and State streets. The area 
is divided into nine squares, each square subdi­
vided by labeled divisions of land: a thin black 
line divides Richard Perry’s two and a half acres 
from Theophilus Eaton’s; Stephen Goodyear’s 
plot borders that of William Hawkins. The order 
provided by the map indicates neither cardinal 
directions nor street names, only the nine large 
rectangles and the smaller ones within them—
broad outlines of a mostly uncharted place. 


Over the course of three and a half centu­
ries, those nine squares have become increas­
ingly detailed, in construction and in represen­
tation. In a map from the eighteenth century, 
the allotments of land of the Brockett map be­
come color-coded and labeled sketches of build­
ings. On several nineteenth-century maps, the 
relative sizes of blocks approach an accurate 
measure. A 1929 aerial photograph captures as 
much detail as technology could provide at the 
time: streets and buildings, cars and awnings, 
and the thin and shadowy branches of trees. 


Maps create distance from places—they 
provide perspectives that inherently zoom out 
from the reality of experiences like walking 
down the street. Yet they echo experience, and 
can often augment it. For me, this has been true 
as long as I can remember. I grew up surround­
ed by maps that told me where I was in the 
world, and where I could go. I spent afternoons 
poring over the already-dated eighties atlas my 
father passed down to me, tracing routes and 
town names with my fingers; I ate many bowls 
of macaroni-and-cheese on a placemat with a 
U.S. map; I helped navigate family road trips 
to national parks with highway maps that, un­
folded, were bigger than me. 


My first experiences in cities far from 
home always begin with a lack of meaning, 
swaths of blank space. I only know that the 
streets are unfamiliar, sometimes winding, 
and infinitely detailed. At most, I know several 
broad strokes—a river, a central square, the di­
rection the sun sets against a bell tower. But 
after an hour of walking, I can learn the perim­
eter of any neighborhood, some outlined terra 
incognita. Once I learn peripheral streets, I can 
let myself get lost on side streets and in court­
yards, knowing that if I wander long enough, I 
will happen upon a familiar street I’ve already 
learned. Broad strokes, then specifics, a frac­
tal-like system of zooming in, and zooming in. 


For a long time, I have imagined that I no 
longer need a map to experience New Haven—
I have convinced myself that a map of the city 
exists in my mind. I can visualize buildings 
with their various shapes, streets with their 
diagonal sidewalks between them. I have long 
stopped looking for the ornate designs of roof­
tops against blue skies, and dismiss the dif­
ference between rust and russet bricks on Old 
Campus. The city feels dense with its own pri­
vate meanings, with a history I cannot access.


And yet the New Haven maps I’ve looked at 


8
the new journal
reveal unseen details and rich patterns layered 
one over the other. On the Green, I remember 
only the rough sketch of the 1748 map—and 
the space I experience is beyond what paper 
and ink can record. The wind is cold. There are 
no people on the benches. But because of that 
map, I know to look for old and knotted trees.
—Mary Mussman


**Title: Free Writing**
**Author: Devon Geyelin**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

Austin Reed wrote in silence and in darkness. 
Over the course of three decades, he crafted his 
memoirs in a prison cell in upstate New York, 
where he was prohibited from speaking and 
forced to work ten hours a day. The first line 
reads: “The bright sun was just a shining into 
the window of my father cottage when I was 
call’d by the voice of a female to come and take 
the last look of my dying father.” 


Yale’s Beinecke Rare Book & Manuscript 
Library acquired Reed’s manuscript in 2009 
at an estate sale in Rochester, New York; its 
whereabouts during the preceding 150 years 
remain largely unknown. Titled “The Life and 
Adventures of a Haunted Convict, or the Inmate 
of a Gloomy Prison,” and composed between the 
1830s and the 1850s, it is the earliest known 
prison narrative by a black writer. He wrote 
under the name Robert Reed. Scholars guess 
that Robert was his middle name, or that it was 
a pen name playing on the word Rob because he 
was in jail for theft. Perhaps, some speculate, it 
served as an ode to Robinson Crusoe or Walter 
Scott’s Rob Roy.


The authenticity of the manuscript was 
verified by English professor Caleb Smith in 
December using a letter Reed wrote in 1895, 
as well as court records, prison documents, and 
newspaper articles. “There is no voice quite like 
this in the literature of the period,” says Smith, 
who has written two books on incarceration 
and is preparing Reed’s text for publication in 
early 2016.


The elegant handwriting fades into the 
weathered paper, marking the moments when 
Reed ran low on ink, but the 304-page manu­
script remains highly legible a century and a 
half after its completion. The memoir moves 
from childhood anecdotes to prison conditions 
and poetic musings, from moments of denial 
and indignation to remorse and acquiescence. 
In his concluding note, written two decades af­
ter he began the memoir, Reed reflects on his 
time as a prisoner and tells the Reader to heed 
his life as a cautionary tale.


Reed resorted to theft and violence after 
the death of his father, and landed himself 
first in a Manhattan reformatory for juvenile 
delinquents that offered instruction in read­
ing and writing. He was later sent to Auburn 
State Prison, a reform institution that aimed 
to create a rehabilitative prison model. In addi­
tion to enforced silence and labor, inmates had 
to walk in lockstep to prevent them from fac­
ing one another. They were subject to punish­
ments such as shower-baths, a form of torture 
Reed describes vividly: “Stripping off my shirt 
the tyrantical curse bounded my hands fast 
in front of me and orderd me to stand around. 
Turning my back towards him he threw Sixty 
seven lashes on me according to the orders of 
Esq. Cook. I was then to stand over the dreain 
while one of the inmates wash my back in a pail 
of salt brine.” 


Reed wanted to publish the manuscript 
during his lifetime, but he never did. Perhaps 
it was censored because he was trying to ex­
pose the system, or maybe it just never got into 
the right hands. In any case, his attempt to il­
lustrate the horrors of prison firsthand put 
him in the growing group of prison reformers, 
who were closely allied with the abolitionists. 
In 1858, the year Reed completed his memoir, 
the state prison faced unwanted attention from 
the press when a black inmate was killed in the 
shower bath. “This was a sensitive issue, even at 
the time,” Smith says, “in part because the pris­
on reformers were so strongly identified with 
anti-slavery, and didn’t want people to be able 
to say about their prisons that they were racist 
institutions—that they were like slavery.”


Reed was born a free man near Rochester, 
but he faced violence from a young age. Shortly 


9
after his father’s death, a white farmer came to 
his door to complain that Reed and his friends 
had cut down trees on his property. Reed’s 
mother, who was raising her five children 
alone, decided to give him a lashing: “She took 
a rawhide from the mantlepiece and orderd me 
to strip off my coat. I jump for the ax that stood 
behind the door and raising at my mothers head 
told her if she struck me one blow with that 
rawhide that I would sliver her brains out on the 
floor.” The farmer intervened and attempted to 
take the weapon from Reed, who cocked back 
and threw the ax at him with all the force his 
small frame could muster, leaving a deep cut 
below the farmer’s knee. Reed was six. 


He was sent to work on the farmer’s prop­
erty as retribution and recompense. Reed once 
told the farmer that he was tired of laboring 
and that he would go home to see his mother 
and siblings, and the man responded with the 
whip. No ax by his side, Reed received his lashes 
with his hands tied behind his back.


Despite the age of the manuscript, Reed’s 
narrative remains all too familiar. Though 
whippings and salt brine are no longer common 
practice, tens of thousands of inmates today 
spend twenty-two to twenty-four hours a day 
in sterile steel boxes of solitary confinement in 
most states, including Connecticut. The lights 
stay on,  and meals are served through slots 
in the doors. Rather than walking in lockstep, 
recreation entails supervised, shackled pacing. 
The U.S. still claims the highest incarceration 
rate in the world; forty percent of the country’s 
2.3 million inmates are black, disproportion­
ately representing just thirteen percent of the 
country’s population. And just as two-thirds of 
today’s American inmates end up back in prison 
within three years, Reed was reincarcerated af­
ter only a few months of freedom in 1842. 


From his dark room at the Auburn reform 
institution, Reed looked back on the moment 
beneath the white farmer’s rawhide. He wrote, 
“Then was the hour that I thought of my beloved 
who was sleeping in the grave—yes then was 
the time that I needed a father’s protection.”
—Ezra Ritchin



**Title: the new journal**
**Author: Caitlin Cromwell**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10
the new journal
It was a typical Saturday night in New Haven: a 
long line of people snaked back alongside Toad’s 
Place on York Street. Cabfulls more got out at 
the curb every few minutes. Hordes of college 
students spilled onto the adjacent walkway 
that divides the venue from Mory’s, the private 
club next door, and leads back to two of Yale’s 
residential colleges.


Over the course of its nearly forty years in op­
eration, Toad’s has hosted its fair share of legend­
ary acts. In 1989, the Rolling Stones opened their 
longest tour ever with a surprise performance 
there. Its frequent concerts and dance parties 
have established the venue as a mainstay of New 
Haven nightlife. Yet many regulars I talked to 
that night, and since, haven’t heard about the on­
going legal battle that threatens to close it down.


Several doors of the Toad’s building open 
onto Yale property, including the walkway that 
borders Mory’s. For thirty years, the two enti­
ties had a standing legal agreement that gave 
Toad’s access to those exits. But in 2008, the 
university laid out new terms: exits could only 
be used in emergencies, and Yale could termi­
nate the agreement at will. Toad’s rejected that 
offer, largely on the grounds that the agree­
ment’s short duration rendered it useless. “In 
ten years, it’s over,” explained Jim Segaloff, who 
has not been representing the club in this par­
ticular suit but is Toad’s longtime lawyer. “Yale 
revokes it or terminates it, and then where are 
we?” But Yale press secretary Tom Conroy dis­
misses this argument, comparing it to a lessee 
who wants an infinite lease on a property.  He 
explains, “Think of all the businesses that have 
leases. Their lease is going to run out, they’re 
going to have to negotiate with their landlord, 
and their landlord might decide, ‘I have another 
use in mind for that property.’” 


The club has continued to use the disputed 
property on the basis of easement by implica­
tion, a legal term that indicates that a right 
can be established over time, even without an 
explicit agreement. Yale responded by filing an 
injunction against Toad’s in 2010. The case has 
been in limbo since Bill Gallagher, the attorney 
representing the club in the dispute, died in 
December. Segaloff said that the case would 
remain on hold for the time being while Galla­
gher’s colleagues grapple with their loss.   


In recent decades, Yale has brought in high-
profile businesses like J.Crew, Urban Outfitters, 
and Apple, through its commercial properties 
management division, University Properties. 
Despite its popularity among students, the 
club’s grittier aura seems out of place among 
the sleek upscale chains that line the neighbor­
ing avenue, Broadway. Toad’s campus market­
ing representative, Yale senior Arvind Mohan, 
contends that, “The lawsuit just seems like it’s 
more about politics than the actual door.” Yet 
Conroy insists that, in the Toad’s case, Yale’s ef­
fort to rebrand New Haven is “irrelevant, com­
pletely irrelevant.” 


In 2008, Yale engaged in a similar battle 
with local restaurant Bespoke. The restaurant’s 
back door opened onto a lot owned by Yale, and 
its owners fought to establish permanent free-
access rights to that space. While the issue was 
being resolved in court, Yale built a fence along 
the property line about one foot from Bespoke’s 
back wall, making it impossible to open the 
back door more than a sliver. The restaurant’s 
owners won their case, but they ultimately sold 
the restaurant and left New Haven, telling the 
Yale Daily News that the emotional and finan­
cial toll of the ordeal had been too much to bear. 


Meanwhile, Mory’s, which regularly hosts 
trivia nights and undergraduate a capella 
groups, also has several exits that open onto the 
contested walkway, yet it has negotiated with 
Yale without incident. Since 2010, there has 
been an agreement in place that permits their 
use of these exits. While it includes a yearly re­
newal process and a similar capacity to termi­
nate at will, these provisions have proven much 
less problematic than for the dance club next 
door. 


One night at Toad’s, I asked a group of stu­
dents what they thought of the ongoing prop­
erty dispute between the club and Yale. “The 
ongoing what?” they shouted back at me. For 
now, revelers continue to dance into the early 
morning hours, blissfully unaware that the 
court must eventually come down on one side 
of the street or the other.  
—Caitlin Cromwell
Devon Geyelin
c


--- Page 11 ---

**Title: critical angle**
**Author: Ashley Dalton**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

february 2014
11
O
n a Sunday afternoon last Septem­
ber, the three musicians started to 
groove. The fiddle wailed, and the bass 
ba-dummed. “We got this battle,” the 
melodica-player crooned, “We’re gonna sit in 
their office, get a fossil free Yale.” It was a real-
life protest song, the twenty-first century Pete 
Seeger. I knew it was corny. But as a folk musi­
cian myself, I couldn’t help but feel excited. 
 “Welcome!” said a tall blond woman in a 
white summer dress. She introduced herself 
as Diana Madson, a second-year student at the 
Yale School of Forestry. She looked like just 
about everyone else in the room: attractively 
but casually dressed, slim, white. “Together, 
you, me, everyone here—we are Fossil Free 
Yale,” Madson continued. “And we are happy 
you’re here, because the more people we have, 
the more likely we are to get the university to 
divest from the fossil fuel industry.” 


We were in a classroom in WLH  to talk 
about how to convince Yale to sell its stocks 
in energy companies with high emissions to 
considerably dent the fossil fuel industry. Fos­
sil Free Yale was preparing for a Yale College 
Council student referendum in November to 
gauge the level of support among undergradu­
ates for divestment. They would then present 
the referendum’s results to Yale’s Advisory 
Committee on Investor Responsibility. The ref­
erendum, the first in the school’s history, was 
a landmark push for a democratic voice in uni­
versity governance. 


Fossil Free Yale’s proposal asked that the 
university investigate one hundred coal com­
panies and one hundred oil and gas companies 
identified by a 2011 Carbon Tracker Initiative 
report as having the largest carbon reserves. 
If a company refuses to disclose its emissions 
data, Yale’s investment managers would then 
request the data. And if the company did not 
release the information within a business 
quarter, Yale would divest over two years. Com­
panies that already make high level of emis­
sions known have just one business quarter to 
implement a plan to clean up their progress. If 
they didn’t don’t make sufficient progress, Yale 
would divest over two years. 


At $20.8 billion, Yale has the second-largest 
university endowment in the country, smaller 
only than Harvard’s. Students at Yale who sup­
port the divestment campaign believe that this 
gives Yale the power to make a large impact on 
the environmental practices of energy compa­
nies.


But critics of divestment say that impact 
would be temporary at best. If Yale sold its 
stocks in fossil fuels, some hedge fund manag­
er would buy them up, said Jonathan Macey, the 
chair of Yale’s Advisory Committee on Investor 
Responsibility. And what difference would that 
really make for the environment? The shares 
would be bought and used anyway, and Yale 
wouldn’t make any profit.


Madson countered that divestment has 
symbolic value. “Yale is a big school,” she said. 
“Everyone knows it. If we divest, it goes in the 
New York Times and sends a big message to fos­
sil fuel companies.” She hoped that they and the 
government would then be pressured into pur­
suing cleaner energy policies.


History suggests that Madson is right. In the 
mid-eighties, the divestment of 155 universi­
ties from companies that were doing business 
in apartheid South Africa helped push the U.S. 
government to pass the Comprehensive Anti-
Apartheid Act of 1986. This act imposed sanc­
tions on South Africa that were critical to end­
ing apartheid in the early nineties.


Yale fell short of playing an important role 
in this campaign, however, even after years of 
sustained student struggle for full divestment. 
In April 1986, after years of quieter campaign­
ing, students built a shantytown in Yale’s Bei­
necke Plaza to grab the administration’s atten­
tion and embarrass the university. Over seventy 
students camped out in cardboard and plastic 
shacks. They declared that they wouldn’t leave 
until the university removed its estimated 
$350 million worth of stock held in companies 
doing business in South Africa.


They stuck to their word. For ten days, they 
slept in the shanties. On a Monday evening in 
April, Yale police arrested seventy-eight peo­
ple living in the shantytown, seventy-three of 
them Yale students. Seven hundred protestors 
responded with demonstrations on Beinecke 
Plaza; national media in both the United States 
and South Africa then told their story.


The protestors were soon released on bail, 
and Yale administrators reluctantly allowed 
the shantytown to remain. The rest of spring 
brought rallies and protests to Beinecke Plaza, 
transforming a central part of campus into a 
hotbed of protest and debate. The activists even 
constructed a large wooden monument bearing 
the names of black South Africans who had died 
in the recent unrest. They paraded the monu­
ment around Beinecke Plaza in stark contrast 
with Yale’s own war monument (“In Memory of 
the Men of Yale Who Gave Their Lives So That 
Freedom Might Not Perish From the Earth”). 


The shantytown survived until 1988, when it 
was torched by a disgruntled alum at a reunion.


The Yale Corporation ultimately removed 
shares from seventeen companies doing busi­
ness in South Africa at a total market value 
of twenty-three million dollars, according to 
Yale’s Advisory Committee on Investor Re­
sponsibility. But Yale never fully divested from 
apartheid, even though the very idea of divest­
ment was born at the university. In 1972, a Yale 
professor named John Simon and two graduate 
students, Charles Powers and Jon Gunnemann, 
published a book called The Ethical Investor: 
Universities and Corporate Responsibility, ar­
guing that a university should remove its in­
vestments from a company when it is causing 
“grave social harm,” and that harm cannot be 
remedied by working with the company. Fos­
sil Free Yale hopes that this time, divestment 
at Yale will play a more critical role in affect­
ing change, rather than reacting to the political 
tide.  


The idea that divestment could bring this 
kind of student involvement—and this kind 
of success—was exciting to me. I couldn’t tell 
from the kick-off meeting if Fossil Free Yale 
was ready for this kind of political campaign. 
But I knew I wanted to find out, so I signed up 
to work with the organization. My first step: 
Eric Semenciuc



**Title: A Power Shift in Pittsburgh**
**Author: Ashley Dalton**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
february 2014
13
a weekend in Pittsburgh at an environmental 
conference called Power Shift.
I first saw the city from the height of a stage­
coach bus. Along with over six thousand college 
students, I was headed toward a giant white 
convention center, to one of the largest envi­
ronmentalist conferences in the country. 
I had imagined that Power Shift would look 
like Woodstock in 1969. And it did, if Woodstock 
had involved Twitter, an advertising team, and 
a weekend-long agenda of workshops and pan­els. Despite the attendees’ youth and leftist ten­
dencies, corporate America loomed.  Gaggles 
of white girls with dreadlocks in baggy pants 
hula-hooped while on a break from sessions 
like “Environmental Justice 101.” Nearby, a 
young black man in thick-rimmed glasses rode 
a bike around the lobby holding a sign that read, 
“PROTECT APPALACHIAN 
COMMUNITIES.” But con­
ference goers were never 
very far away from the lob­
by featuring Coca-Cola ad­
vertising and a Sierra Club 
table touting merchandise 
for “Swag Prices!”  
Since Power Shift be­
gan in 2007, its members 
have met every two years to plan protests and 
form advocacy groups on issues such as frack­
ing, tar sands, and environmental justice. This 
year, in Pittsburgh, they wanted to focus on 
grassroots strategies. Power Shift chose the 
location because Pittsburgh is the first Ameri­
can city to ban “dirty and dangerous fracking,” 
according to the promotional materials at the 
conference. They further claim that the mea­
sure was all the more impressive because Pitts­
burgh is within a few hours of the coal mines of 
West Virginia and the shale gas fields of Penn­
sylvania. 
Looking outside the convention center 
window to Pittsburgh’s old factories and black-
and-yellow bridges, I saw a city built on fossil 
fuels. Pittsburgh largely owes its existence to 
the energy-intensive steel industry. But inside 
the lobby of the David L. Lawrence Convention 
Center, I couldn’t feel further from the heart of 
coal country.
It was hard to tell if other Power Shift at­
tendees were worried about the contradictions 
of this “green” convention and the potential pit­
falls of “green-washing.” Just looking at what 
we were wearing, you could tell we were a divid­
ed group. The granola-crunching hippies wore 
baggy pants; the trendy urban hipsters dripped 
with asymmetrical jewelry; the eco-conscious 
yuppies-to-be sported Patagonia; the moody 
anarchists wore all black. And underneath the 
surface, there lay more important, less visible 
philosophical distinctions. 
There were the students who had come 
to learn about green energy and divestment, 
including many members of Fossil Free Yale. 
These environmentalists liked that the con­
vention center was gold LEED-certified, but 
its walls also sported ads touting Pittsburgh’s 
commitments to “progress” and “industry.” 
They differ enormously from activists like 
Ariana Shapiro, the Yale student who organized 
the trip to Power Shift. Shapiro is not a current 
member of Fossil Free Yale, 
though her work was key to 
the group’s campaign in the 
2012-2013 school year. She 
quit this past fall, frustrated 
with 
divestment’s 
accep­
tance of the assumptions of 
modern industrial capital­
ism. Shapiro considers her­
self a grassroots, front-line 
environmental activist, and she sees social and 
economic reform as central to the movement. 
Many activists share her trepidation, feeling 
that divestment lacks the social vision of more 
radical environmentalism.
Shapiro is from Ithaca, New York, where 
reserves of natural gas lay in wait, and under 
threat of being extracted by fracking. Her fight 
for her home community played a major role 
in her decision to take a year off between high 
school and Yale. During that year, she dedicated 
herself to fighting fossil fuel production, even 
getting arrested in Washington, D.C. alongside 
Bill McKibben, an environmental activist and 
the mastermind behind the current movement 
to divest from fossil fuels. Shapiro takes care 
to point out, however,  that she comes from 
a white, middle-class background, while the 
consequences of environmental destruction 
have hit lower income, non-white communities 
hardest. 
Activists from these affected communities 
were less prevalent among Power Shift attend­
ees, but discussions of race, class, and privilege 


--- Page 14 ---

14
the new journal
were not absent. Kimberly Wasserman, one 
of the weekend’s best-received speakers, had 
organized a campaign to shut down two of the 
dirtiest coal plants in the country to protect 
herself, her son, and her Chicago neighborhood 
from asthma and economic decline. She came 
to Power Shift to ask people to stop focusing 
on big “green” campaigns like divestment and 
to start a conversation about the underlying 
issues, like an economic system that creates 
ever-expanding production and consumption 
at the cost of marginalizing certain popula­
tions. A large percentage of her community is 
unemployed, she said, leaving them vulnerable 
to joining companies that engage in practices 
that are not only environmentally dangerous 
but also dangerous for the 
health of her son and her 
neighbors. “We don’t need 
that junk,” Wasserman said. 
“What we need is an invest­
ment in our communities.” 
Divestment can potentially 
serve as a key to this kind 
of real environmental and 
social change. On the last 
day of the conference, I met 
Prexy Nesbitt, who fought 
apartheid with the African 
National Congress, the po­
litical party that eventually 
came to govern post-apartheid South Africa. He 
drew comparisons between what divestment 
meant in the nineties and what it could mean 
now. 
“Divestment is a good answer,” he said. “But 
it becomes a good answer to the extent that 
we link it to other issues. It cannot be done in 
a vacuum.” 
Nesbitt told me what I hadn’t wanted to 
admit: an institution like Yale may not want 
to widen its campaign to address the social is­
sues that are underwritten in the environmen­
tal crisis. Yale’s resistance to divesting from 
apartheid, despite its clear social harm, does 
not bode well. 
Yet it is universities’ very resistance to 
campus divestment movements that can help 
move environmentalism beyond the rhetoric of 
saving the Earth. The environment has always 
been in flux. The crisis is whether the human 
species will be able to survive in the environ­
ment we are creating—or, more trickily, which 
members of the species will not just survive, 
but also live well. The climate change crisis is, 
at its root, about more than the trees or the po­
lar bears. It is about the health and survival of 
human societies.
After Power Shift, I knew that several other 
members of Fossil Free Yale wanted to change 
the course of Yale’s history and make a suc­
cessful, socially-based movement on campus 
in addition to advocating for divestment. They 
wanted a campaign aligned with cultural and 
social justice groups.  At the first meeting after 
the conference, on November 3, I pitched the 
idea.
“This school claims to stand for liberal, 
humanitarian values. Let’s 
tear that down,” I said, with 
the shantytowns on Bei­
necke Plaza in mind. 
But I was shot down 
quickly. “I think incorporat­
ing social justice detracts 
from what we’re trying to 
do,” said Sam Miller, a stu­
dent at the Yale School of 
Forestry who also attended 
Power Shift this year, and 
who had attended before. 
Miller says he isn’t against 
furthering human rights, 
but that he thinks environ­
mental campaigns get too bogged down by at­
tempting to incorporate every affiliated social 
campaign. Others redirected our focus. Fossil 
Free Yale needed to concentrate on the upcom­
ing student referendum, they said. For weeks, 
the group’s leaders had been preparing for the 
student vote on whether or not Yale should di­
vest. 
Over half of the undergraduates voted be­
tween November 17 and 20, and the referen­
dum passed with eighty-three percent of votes. 
Fossil Free Yale has gained momentum to push 
the student body to get more serious about 
pressuring the administration to divest. 
But the question remains: what will that 
push look like? I worry that it won’t transform 
into a social justice campaign—and that it won’t 
work.
Despite the referendum’s success, even the 
less-ambitious process of divestment will not 


--- Page 15 ---

15
come easily at Yale. Since the referendum, Fos­
sil Free Yale has been negotiating with Yale’s 
trustees on assessing environmental metrics. 
But the decision to divest will ultimately fall 
to the Corporation, and if they say no to divest­
ment, the situation could escalate. 
Bill McKibben said it himself: when univer­
sity investors refuse to divest, the campaign 
starts to move in a more radical direction. 
“What it means,” he explained, “is we can start 
fighting with a little less restraint.” 
McKibben believes that my generation is 
more inclined to respect authority than our 
predecessors at Woodstock, and rightfully so—
but we will have to resist authority more openly 
to produce the change we desire.  
Yale activists may already be headed in 
this direction. Fossil Free Yale’s new logo fea­
tures an image of windmills planted firmly in 
the ground, a widely-recognized symbol for 
divestment—but its orange square comes from 
the red square that epitomized the 2012 Que­
bec student protests against rising tuition. The 
time will come when Fossil Free Yale will have 
to act on the radical message symbolized in this 
logo, and when it does, maybe it will push all so­
cial groups on campus to make a serious social 
statement about their cause. 
If we really want to stop climate change, 
the divestment movement needs to be about 
more than just divestment. We also need to 
challenge ourselves to confront uncomfortable 
issues of race and inequality that underpin our 
environmental crisis. Fossil Free Yale needs to 
look beyond the current, short-term conversa­
tion about our school’s divestment. It’s time to 
remember that human communities are the 
most important part of the ecosystem we are 
fighting for.
Ashley Dalton is a junior in Ezra 
Stiles College and a Staff Writer for 
the New Journal.


**Title: Volcán Barú**
**Author: A. Grace Steig**
**Page number(s): 15**

Volcán Barú
Cocksure we ploughed ahead after midnight,
regretting it when the sweat chilled.
Then hours of lockstep with you, just you.
Thighs vibrated beyond the tree line.
Summitting, we met nine Telcom towers—
bastions of this state-in-the-making.
Light clusters below meant the cities of Panamá and David; 
in expansive cloud forest, quetzals slept.
We rubbed limbs by an illicit fire.
This sufficed until dawn’s summoning:
a sea on each horizon.
Caribbean stratus rippled over lesser hills.
You enveloped me and exhaled Pacific.
Clarifying the apex, a wooden cross,
monkeyed on by some man in a North Face.
A gringa scratched in her baja sweater.
If climb-wisdom were a particular truth
scrawled at the peak of a nation,
I—having become “José Luis”—and you—“Anel Zuaso”—
were here.



**A Tale of Two Supermarkets**
**Author: Meredith Redick**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
O
n your way up Whalley Avenue to the Stop 
& Shop in New Haven, you pass a Papa 
John’s, a Burger King, and a rundown Ja­
maican food cart. Further down, you can stop 
at  Subway, or McDonald’s. Every block or two, 
a convenience store appears. Mostly, though, 
this avenue—and the surrounding residential 
neighborhood—is all about fast food.


But quick calories aren’t everything when 
it comes to feeding a community. Fourteen per­
cent of New Haven residents are what sociolo­
gists call “food-insecure,” meaning they don’t 
have a regular or reliable supply of nutritious 
food. The problem is largely caused by food des­
erts: areas without easy access to a supermar­
ket, in which lower-income communities lack 
the cars to shop at faraway supermarkets and 
the financial resources to shop at small, high-
end food stores.  


New Haven’s only major supermarket, 
Shaw’s, closed in 2010. For almost a year, the 
city’s low-income residents had few food op­
tions. They could go up the street to Popeye’s—
where food stamps are not accepted—or they 
could go down the street to Edge of the Woods, 
a small natural foods store where food stamps 
can be used to buy pricey organic fruits and 
vegetables. They could also take a series of bus­
es to the closest supermarket, which, for most 
New Havenites, is prohibitively troublesome 
and time-consuming. 


Then, within six months of each other, two 
new shopping centers popped up, a corporate 
giant and a custom-designed cooperative. The 
opening of Stop & Shop and Elm City Market in 
2011 was trumpeted as the solution to New Ha­
ven’s food issues. But the way that they opened, 
and the way that these markets are now operat­
ing, sheds light on the strange, arid landscape 
that is New Haven’s food deserts.


When I first meet Kate Walton in the upstairs 
conference room of the Stop & Shop on Whalley, 
she is wearing a neat green Christmas sweater 
and clogs. Somehow, even her innocuous pas­
tels and curled blonde hair contributes to her 
intimidating aura. Almost as soon as I arrive, 
she thrusts a report on Community Food Secu­
rity in Connecticut at me with a French-mani­
cured hand. Walton then hands me a folder of 
meticulous notes from her ten-year tenure at 
the Connecticut Food Bank. The notes detail 
inefficiencies in the food bank’s administra­
tion and the problems she encountered on an 
everyday basis. In Walton’s world, New Haven’s 
various social problems all connect to food. She 
connects malnutrition to low birth-weights, 
children doing poorly in school, and gang vio­
lence. Walton understands food as central to a 
community’s success. 


Walton is currently the community rela­
tions coordinator at Stop & Shop, but my first 
conversations with her are all about soup kitch­
ens. Though she was a central player in bringing 
the supermarket to the city, her path took her 
first through the food assistance system. Her 
career includes almost two decades heading 
the Fellowship Place, an organization that pro­
vides services for people with mental illness, 
and a decade at the Connecticut Food Bank, 
where she distributed five million pounds of 
government food throughout the state each 
year—of which New Haven received about two 
million pounds. 


During her tenure, she founded a number 
of programs aimed at relieving the city’s food 
deserts. One was a mobile pantry truck that 
carried as much as ten tons of food in refriger­
ated compartments, making the rounds in New 
Haven three times a month to distribute food 
to the elderly, the disabled, and people without 
access to a car. Another was the Kids’ Backpack 
program, aimed at children who got most of 
their nutrition from school lunches; teachers 
slipped boxed food into their backpacks in or­
der to keep them fed through the weekends. 
Walton is still waiting on a grant for a program 
to help distribute food to seniors. 


She sums up her work matter-of-factly: 
“There is an incredible network of relief pro­
grams, but the fact is, most people want to get 
their food from a supermarket.” For many, 
shopping for food means both independence 
and choice.


In 1979, Walton was a young mother living 
near Elm Street with her two children when 
the small grocery store that served the entire 
Dwight neighborhood shut down. When no 
plans for a new supermarket materialized, she 
re-located Fellowship Place to the old lot. Over 
a decade after the supermarket closed, when 
auto shops were so ubiquitous that Whalley 
Avenue was called “Automobile Avenue,” Wal­
ton also joined a new community organization, 
the Greater Dwight Development Corporation 
(GDDC), in its efforts to recruit a large chain su­
permarket into the area. New Haven’s reputa­
tion, however, made it difficult.


“The other towns with Shaw’s were much 
more desirable,” Walton said. “Desirable,” for 
supermarkets, is often synonymous with “sub­
urban.” In affluent suburbs, residents spend 
more money on foods with high profit mar­
gins, like fancy cheeses and chocolate truffles. 
New Haven’s population, though, encompasses 
a broad range of  socioeconomic backgrounds. 
Yale students on the dining plan pay $12.46 
for a single buffet-style dinner; some of those 
students live next door to families who stretch 
less than two hundred dollars a month in food 
stamps into breakfast, lunch, and dinner. 


In 2000, GDDC finally persuaded Shaw’s to 
open a site on Whalley Avenue. It was the first 
time in twenty years that the neighborhood had 
a convenient supermarket. But in 2010, after a 
decade of serving the Dwight Street commu­
nity, the corporation that owned Shaw’s made 
the choice to close all eighteen Shaw’s branches 
in Connecticut. Sixteen other locations were 
promptly purchased by other supermarket 
chains, but New Haven, by far the poorest of 
those cities according to census data, remained 
empty. After months working to find a store to 
fill the space, the GDDC had received scattered 
offers from discount stores, but none from full-
service supermarket chains.


New Haven finally got its Stop & Shop 
through a combination of serendipity and re­
lentless work, with Walton at the center of it 
all. In the winter of 2010, the Wexler-Grant 



**Title: Stop & Shop and Elm City Market**
**Author: Meredith Redick**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
february 2014
19
School asked Walton to create an after-school 
nutrition education program for its students. 
She agreed instantly but quickly ran into a 
problem. The food supplied by Connecticut 
Food Bank, where she worked, was healthy but 
unappealing. 

Walton met with Anne Demchak, a board 
member of the Connecticut Food Bank who was 
then the manager of a Stop & Shop just outside 
of New Haven: “I said, ‘I don’t have the fresh 
fruits and vegetables I need, and she said, ‘Just 
come over to my store on Amity and take what­
ever you want.”

One spring morning, Demchak and Walton 
were walking through the Dwight neighbor­
hood when Demchak noticed the old Shaw’s 
lot. She stopped in front of the parking lot and 
asked the question Walton had asked herself, 
every time she drove to Dixwell or Amity to get 
her groceries: “Why did 
Stop & Shop not take this 
spot?” 

Less than two weeks 
later, when the regional 
manager of Stop & Shop 
happened to be doing a 
sweep of all the stores 
in the area, Demchak 
and Walton invited him 
to lunch. Soon after, the 
three of them stood in the parking lot of the old 
Shaw’s, looking out across the warm tarmac. 
Just a few miles from Yale, this neighborhood 
was in desperate need of a grocery store. At the 
time, Whalley was dotted with dollar stores and 
chicken shacks. 

“These guys at the corporate level hadn’t 
seen the site,” Walton said. “None of them re­
alized the unbelievable location. It’s not like”—
she scrounges to find an absurd example to tell 
me—“putting a Stop & Shop in Bridgeport. They 
hadn’t realized how close Yale was, how close 
the hospital was, how many thousands of work­
ers might shop there.” Walton’s Bridgeport ex­
ample shows how corporate supermarkets find 
the right location—by assessing the potential 
for profit, not the need for food.  Once the re­
gional manager approved the new store, nego­
tiations started within the week.

Stop & Shop came with a gas station and 
landscaping, but that wasn’t enough. It needed 
to be integrated into the neighborhood. During 
the summer of 2011, Walton hosted a nutrition 
program at every library branch in and around 
New Haven, supplying Stop & Shop clemen­
tines, granola bars, and two percent milk. Since 
Stop & Shop opened, it has been donating to lo­
cal distribution sites, including soup kitchens, 
and has given priority in hiring to Shaw’s for­
mer employees. 

But given the history of the lot where 
Shaw’s once stood, Stop & Shop’s presence can 
sometimes feel tenuous, and temporary. What’s 
stopping the supermarket from selling out 
when business goes sour? 

Across town, a different kind of community 
grocery store had already been taking root. It 
started in 2010, when Bruce Becker was busy 
working on his latest development, a mixed-
use thirty-two-story tower at 360 State Street. 
When Becker got from permission New Haven 
to build, however, the city 
added 
another 
condition: 
Becker had to find a grocery 
store to lease out the ground 
floor. 

In theory, the location by 
the train station was ideal. 
But taxes were projected to 
be 
unusually 
high—about 
$1.4 million for the build­
ing—and there wasn’t much 
room for a parking lot. Whole Foods and Trader 
Joe’s both turned down Becker’s offer, so he 
contacted Mark Regni, an organic foods re­
tailer who was working for Whole Foods at the 
time. 

Cooperatives are usually designed by a 
group of members who invest together to main­
tain bargaining power against vendors. They 
tend to be small, intimate, and community-gov­
erned. Elm City Market, on the other hand, was 
built from the top down; before it had members, 
it was completely designed by outside develop­
ers. Together, Beckers and Regni designed a 
plan for a hybrid co-op—a store that would sell 
both basic non-organic foods and higher-end 
natural foods. Regni then signed on as general 
manager. 

Once Becker identified the creation of a 
co-op as the solution to the lease requirements, 
he made plans for making the store attractive 
to downtown New Haven residents right away. 
In a glossy newsletter published each month, 
the developers detailed the construction pro­
Stop & Shop’s presence can 
sometimes feel tenuous, 
and temporary. What’s 
stopping the supermarket 
from selling out when 
business goes sour?


---

20
the new journal
cess. By February 2011, they were finalizing a 
logo for the market. By March, Becker and his 
team were focusing on how to optimize the ar­
chitecture to bring “visual rhythm and images 
of nature into the pageantry of buildings.” In 
April, they asked future members to hand-
write notes about their wishes for the store, 
which would be placed in the floorboards on 
the ground floor. By November, the market had 
finally opened its doors in the 360 State Street 
building. Yet it still faced a problem most co-ops 
never encounter: how to find a critical mass of 
members.

Two years later, near the entrance to Elm 
City Market, cases of Guinness stand next to a 
pile of plantains. Beside the checkout counters, 
Snickers and Hershey bars sit next to a sign for 
“Organic Decorative Gourds.” On the busy Sat­
urday when I visit, the market is bustling when 
a supervisor named Derek Faulkner finally 
wanders into the market, eating salad out of a 
cardboard to-go box. He has a rhinestone stud 
in each ear, and wears a blue polo shirt. The tat­
too on his arm reads, “Vive et vivas”—live that 
you may live.

Faulkner, a native of Branford, Connecticut, 
has been here since the market opened. “I didn’t 
even really know what a co-op was,” he says, 
spearing a cherry tomato. “My sister came and 
bugged everyone in my family, so we all became 
members.” Faulkner has since moved up from 
member to supervisor. First he was in charge of 
ordering most of the groceries, and now he  di­
rects the purchase of beer and bulk products—
things like oats, nuts, and dried fruits, which 
customers can buy in any quantity out of tubs 
that line the west wall of the market.

“Almonds are one of my top products since 
we opened,” Faulkner says, pointing towards 
the tubs. “That and oats and rice—white and 
brown rice.” The market also sells quite a few 
non-staple items in bulk, including dried man­
go strips, date rolls, and organic gummy bears.

“It’s easy for us to get a request and fulfill 
it,” Faulkner says. “Whenever I’m in the beer 
aisle and I chat with a customer and they want 
to switch out a brewery, it’s easy for me to do 
that without having to get approval.” He con­
trasts this policy with the larger chains like 
Stop & Shop, noting that he has the freedom 
Popeye’s: three chicken tenders a biscuit, a Coke, and a tub of coleslaw: $6.49



21
to rotate products and to see which ones sell: 
“There’s no middleman. Just the man.”

Assistant marketing manager Stephanie 
Berberich designs cooking classes and other 
educational events to get people interested in 
the market and thinking about how they eat. 
“Even if we were to hand out vegetables, they 
might not necessarily know what to do with 
them,” Berberich says.

Meanwhile, the market tries to reach low­
er-income shoppers. “We want everyone to feel 
welcome to shop here,” Faulkner told me. Elm 
City Market offers “fresh cards,” which entitles 
a SNAP-eligible card-holder to ten dollars of 
fresh produce. The market has also started a 
“basics” program, setting competitive prices on 
staple household items that are still organic and 
local. The top of the list looks like this: Puffins 
Cereal, 3.49. Baby carrots (16 oz), 2.79. Tropi­
cana Orange Juice, 4.49. For reference, a 16-oz 
bag of baby carrots at Stop 
& Shop is 1.69. For Elm 
City Market’s non-“basics” 
offerings, the price dif­
ference is even bigger; a 
loaf of whole-wheat bread 
might run you five dollars, 
compared to Stop & Shop’s 
1.99. Despite Elm City 
Market’s efforts, it’s hard 
to imagine how someone 
living on SNAP would choose to frequent a 
store where the “competitively priced” items fit 
on a single sheet of paper.

Not surprisingly, the community market 
is struggling to integrate into the New Haven 
landscape. Elm City Market is still in business; 
organic, local food clearly appeals to enough 
customers. But to a large subset of Elm City’s 
proclaimed target population, the pineapples 
and arugula facing the entrance of Elm City 
Market are simply inaccessible. It may be a 
community market, but the community it 
serves is not the one that needs it most.

I first met Tanya, who declined to give her last 
name, at the Community Soup Kitchen on a 
rainy November afternoon. Tanya has lived in 
New Haven for over a decade. She can list, with 
encyclopedic precision, the opening hours of 
every food pantry and soup kitchen within a 
half-mile radius of downtown New Haven. She 
eats her pulled-pork sandwich quickly. “I don’t 
eat at places like this all the time,” she says. 
“Just if I’m in the neighborhood.”

At the Community Soup Kitchen, a few late 
visitors sit at the red-checked tables, hunched 
over their food. One is a young woman wear­
ing tight sweatpants and a hoodie; another is a 
gaunt man wearing shorts and battered suede 
chaps. As these visitors disperse, they toss sty­
rofoam plates flecked with coleslaw and pork 
into a trashcan. 

New Haven has more soup kitchens and 
food pantries than most surrounding cities. The 
Community Soup Kitchen is situated roughly 
halfway between the two supermarkets and 
across the street from Gourmet Heaven on 
Broadway, a small market where the imported 
candies displayed next to the entrance might 
cost you over five bucks. 

Rick Durance, one of the assistant man­
agers, surveys the room. “We try to make the 
meals nutritious,” he says, 
opening a styrofoam con­
tainer to show me a typical 
serving. “Usually the salad 
is a little bit bigger.”

“We actually see a fair 
number 
of 
people 
com­
ing from out of town to use 
these resources,” the man­
ager, Dave O’Sullivan, tells 
me later. “New Haven is an 
attractive place to food-insecure people. Peo­
ple will come from as far as Wallingford,” a city 
twenty minutes away. 

Tanya, who is almost a year sober from crack 
cocaine and alcohol addiction, found solace in 
Community Soup Kitchen when she was first 
recovering. “If you give respect here, you get it,” 
she says, licking her fingers. She gestures at her 
outfit: striped green sweater, matching cordu­
roy pants, shiny green eye shadow. “A year ago, I 
was not like this.”

Tanya buys most of her food from grocery 
stores, usually with the help of food stamps. 
She used to receive $189 every month in ben­
efits, an amount that gets loaded onto an elec­
tronic benefits transfer (EBT) card and can be 
used like a debit card. After government cut­
backs in October 2013, she receives a little bit 
less. She can’t spend that money on pre-made 
food from, say, the burrito joint just down the 
street. It has to be groceries. Tanya fiercely 
guards her EBT card—not even relatives are 
Tanya can list, with 
encyclopedic precision, 
the opening hours of every 
food pantry and soup 
kitchen within a half-mile 
radius of downtown.



**Title: Food Deserts**
**Author: Meredith Redick**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Tanya is also strategic about where she shops, though the Whalley Avenue Stop & Shop should be the most convenient choice. “The Walmart in Wallingford is really nice,” she says. “It goes all the way down the block.” But Wallingford is accessible from New Haven only for those with a bus ticket (or a car) and a block of uninterrupted time. Her second choice is ShopRite, a store about four miles from the home of the family friend she’s been staying with in Hamden since she started recovering from her addiction. 


If Tanya eats at a soup kitchen a few times a week and rides to Wallingford to buy cheap groceries, she can make her money stretch to the end of the month. Some months, she can afford to stock up on her favorite vegetables: string beans, collard greens, and corn. Near the end of the month, as her EBT card balance dwindles, she often starts substituting cheaper foods like potato chips for vegetables. Sometimes she buys potato chips anyway so she can send the extra food to her son, who currently lives with her mother.


Tanya tells me that she shops at Stop & Shop only as a last resort—even though it’s more convenient than other stores. “The prices are too high,” she said me. “I went there a few times when it first opened, but I can’t go anymore.” She and several others at Community Soup Kitchen who are local to New Haven even think that Stop & Shop has fewer promotional sales around the first of the month, when EBT cards get renewed. Whether it’s rumor or truth, Tanya feels little loyalty to the new supermarket.


On the first of the month, yellow taxis flood the parking lot of the Whalley Avenue Stop & Shop with people ready to pack the trunk with a month’s worth of groceries. Even as new stores open doors, some of the city’s residents must go to great lengths to get their groceries. The statistics show that, between 2010 and 2011, food insecurity in New Haven went up, not down. New Haven’s food deserts are an unusual ecosystem: the city’s emergency food supplies are robust enough to attract people from out of town, but its two grocery stores struggle to take root. What’s more, they seem to have emerged as a result of a combination of serendipity and determination from a few dedicated individuals, not of concerted city-wide efforts. These stores—one a nationally-known giant, the other a peculiar brand of co-op—are an oasis for some and an illusion for others.


Walton remains undiscouraged. In fact, our conversation has reminded her that she needs to resubmit a grant for a new food access program. “We have to figure out how to use the existing infrastructure to get food to everyone,” Walton says, handing me another sheaf of notes. “Access to food is kind of the center of the universe for everybody.” As I descend the stairs back into the fluorescent lights of the Stop & Shop, holding a detailed diagram of her mobile groceries plan for seniors, I am reminded that the other challenges for feeding New Haven—integrating new shops into the community, reaching out to those who are housebound or don’t have cars—cannot be relieved by planting a supermarket in the middle of the city. The food deserts are created by more than simple geography.
Meredith Redick is a senior in Ezra Stiles College.


**Title: Real Kid Talk**
**Author: Isabelle Taft**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

Dozens of children gathered at the Peabody Museum on Martin Luther King, Jr. Day to think about the future of their city. Through pictures and words, they responded to the prompt, “Dear Mayor Toni Harp, This is what I want for New Haven…” The posters they created varied widely in message and accuracy of spelling: “I want a happy home and a great place to grow up in.” “Don’t waste water, dudes and dudets.” “No more school!” “No guns.” “I want people being nice to each other.” 
But the last one stood out most, the blunt intensity of the message mismatching its messy execution: “Stop kling everoen.” 
This letter also stood out to the fifteen-year-old standing by me, Alex Marks: “There are little babies that know what’s going on.”


The museum organizers of the event invited New Elm City Dream, a youth group that addresses issues often considered too difficult for children to confront: unemployment, gun violence, incarceration, poverty. Founded in September 2011 by members of the Young Communists League (YCL), it asks children to be their own advocates. Though most of the group’s twenty or so members are in their mid-to-late teens, elementary school students also join the discussions. Many need parents or volunteers to drive them to the weekly meetings at the New Haven People’s Center, but as they waited for the chair of the group to present this week’s topics, they formed a convincing picture of serious grown-ups at work.


At a meeting in early January, pizza and ginger ale sat on the tables and a whiteboard displayed the agenda. In the community building on Howe Street, in the room where New Haven’s first interracial basketball team was formed, the members of the New Elm City Dream were ready to begin. All eyes were on a skinny middle-schooler with bright brown eyes, a bouncy ponytail, and an air of coltish exuberance: Alex Marks’s sister Jackie, age thirteen and current chair of the group. Then Jackie began to giggle.


The New Elm City Dream’s meeting rules state that no one is supposed to talk without first being acknowledged by the chair, but with the chair suddenly incapacitated by fits of laughter, anarchy prevailed. Soon lots of people were giggling. Jackie began pacing around the room, arms over her mouth, staring up at the ceiling in an attempt to defeat the giggles. “You didn’t say anything about this before we left the house,” a newcomer, high school senior Tyrone Wiggins, whispered to his friend, who rolled her eyes, crossed her arms, and waited for the other younger members to settle down. Jackie’s giggles were not nervous as much as they were self-conscious. She seemed suddenly aware that the idea of a young teenager leading a other teenagers in a structured discussion could be seen as ridiculous. The awareness, however, didn’t diminish her desire to lead; the group’s members are constantly preparing to take the stage before audiences that don’t expect children to speak out.


Once Jackie settled down, it was clear she could command a crowd. She announced that it was time for a game of “Dance Telephone,” in which people around a circle imitate each other’s moves. Despite some reluctance, everyone—from nine-year-old Zioney McCoy to twenty-eight-year-old David White—got up from their chairs, stood in the middle of the room, and began to dance. 


When the New Elm City Dream was founded in 2011, the FBI considered New Haven the fourth most dangerous city in America. By the end of the year, the homicide count was thirty-four, making it one of the most violent years in over a decade. According to Lisa Bergmann, an organizer for the YCL and adult coordinator of the New Elm City Dream, she and the program’s other founders, David White and Nollysha Canteen, started to bring people together in a youth group in part because of such devastating violence. Fifteen of 2011’s victims were under twenty-five. The youngest was eight.


“People, especially younger people, were really scared,” Bergmann said. “They’re sixteen, seventeen, and their lives are being destroyed before they even get to start them.”


Canteen was a senior at James Hillhouse High School, and her friends were disappearing. “They were getting locked up or having kids at a young age or their parents were moving them to another state because of the violence,” she explained. “And I wanted to change that.”


The two recruited other young adults from their neighborhoods, schools, and extended families. Jackie, Alex, and their sisters Areliz, fourteen, and Capria, eighteen, have attended meetings ever since, as have Montell Wright, eighteen, and his cousin, Kelsha Sailor, fifteen. These New Havenites spoke of violence, but also of the issues that spiral around it: there is a lack of after-school opportunities for young people. Latery, they struggle to find jobs, leaving them hard-pressed for cash and without ways to fill their time. The New Elm City Dream’s first big event drew attention to these intertwined issues. On November 2, 2011, the group held a candlelight vigil at the Center Church on the Green in remembrance of the city’s young people lost to violence that year, and then joined a march for jobs alongside members of Occupy New Haven who were camped out on the Green. For the first time, Bergmann said, group members felt that they were making a difference—and that people in the community were noticing.


“Everybody remembers that march,” Bergmann said. “After that, we sort of set the goals of bringing the neighborhoods together, ending the violence, and creating more job opportunities for youth.”


Explicitly linking violence to lack of economic opportunity gives the New Elm City Dream both a cohesive agenda and freedom to undertake varied projects. Members spent much of 2012 surveying 570 New Haven residents ages ten to twenty-five about their neighborhoods, and used the results to show demand for facilities such as the Q House, a beloved community center on Dixwell Avenue that closed in 2003 after almost eighty years. in operation Canteen served on the Jobs Pipeline Committee that created New Haven Works, a program that connects New Haven residents with jobs at partner employers such as Yale and IKEA. The New Elm City Dream was also active in the 2011 and 2013 aldermanic campaigns.


Jeannette Morrison, the alder for Ward 22, which includes four Yale residential colleges and the Dixwell neighborhood, said the New Elm City Dream members are some of her favorite people to work with. She admires their energy, their consistency, their boldness in speaking to powerful adults.


“They’re young, but they tackle big issues,” she says. “Not just issues that mean something for young people, but issues for all people.”


Perhaps the greatest strength of these fledgling activists is that work and play are all part of the same big picture. Back at the Peabody Museum booth, I spoke with McCoy and Shanya Houston during their lunch break. The girls were holding hands, each eating a Subway sandwich with her free hand. I asked them whether they felt affected by violence in New Haven. Still munching, they said they did because their parents are afraid they might get hurt—or worse. 
“I sometimes wish I could go outside,” McCoy said. But Houston doesn’t like the cold anyway, and is happy to obey the instructions of their parents. Inside they can play makeup, tag, dress-up, and school. 
They told me about the difficulty of standing up for the causes of the New Elm City Dream. Last summer, the group members took a trip to Washington, D.C. for the fiftieth anniversary of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, at which Martin Luther King, Jr. gave his famed “I Have a Dream” speech. They left New Haven at midnight, arrived in D.C. to
Karen Tian



**Title: Lessons in Looking**
**Author: Andrew Wagner**
**Page number(s): 26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Like a faint gray smudge sullying a building’s side—the only trace of the burned-down house that once 
stood next door—my photographs seek out the unexpected ways in which the natural and the man-
made are intertwined. Rather than finding an easy division between the two, the images create an 
artificial naturalness and a natural artificiality. Along the way, I use both so-called “pure” observation 
and digital alteration; at times, I physically construct my own scenes. Seeing is as active as making: 
there is no such thing as a photograph that has not been manipulated. My photographs are not abso­
lute statements; they only offer a possible way of seeing.

Andrew Wagner is a junior in Timothy Dwight College.


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Isabelle Taft**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

february 2014
25
march in the morning, and came home that 
evening. McCoy said her feet were hurting, the 
weather was hot, and she’s not sure the expe­
rience was worth all the suffering. Bergmann, 
however, thinks it was worthwhile. Along with 
thousands of other Americans, members of the 
New Elm City Dream and the YCL marched in 
Washington to carry the torch lit by an earlier 
generation of civil rights leaders. Jim Crow is 
gone, but full equality of opportunity remains 
a dream—and that can make recruitment chal­
lenging for groups like Bergmann’s. 
“The conditions that people have to live in 
because of extreme racism and extreme in­
equality slow down organizing sometimes,” 
Bergmann said, “because people are trying to 
get through the day.” 

More light-hearted stories wove their way 
into this talk of street shootings and freedom 
marches. Houston told me about a time when 
they went outside McCoy’s house to play for 
a few minutes. When it started to thunder, 
McCoy got scared and ran back inside. They 
laughed at the memory, and then got up to go 
watch the breakdancing troupe performing on 
the other side of the massive dinosaur skeleton. 

If the younger members seem to not always 
know what’s going on, perhaps it’s because to 
them, the threat of violence seems as ubiqui­
tous and commonplace as a cloud cover. It’s part 
of the problem they have to grow up with, along 
with bad sandwiches and tired feet.
At the People’s Center, Jackie eventually got 
almost everyone into a circle. I was the second 
person to dance in Dance Telephone—a bless­
ing because I only had to do two dance moves 
instead of more than ten. Everyone laughed at 
me, at each other, and at themselves. 

When we sat down again, Jackie announced 
the day’s main goal: to invite adults to a special 
meeting intended to showcase the group’s work 
and recruit new supporters. Though the mem­
bers are proud of their own resourcefulness, 
adults can bring new faces to meetings, help 
with fundraising, and offer guidance. 

Soon, giggles broke out again. Kelsha Sailor 
made fun of Jennifer Graham, sixteen, for cov­
ering her mouth all the time. McCoy hid her 
face in the crook of her elbow on the table’s 
surface. Areliz Marks slouched in her chair and 
folded her arms over her chest. 
“We would have better discipline if we had 
more adults here,” Jackie said. 
“I’m thinking about it less as them disciplin­
ing you and more as your sharing your awesome 
work with them,” Bergmann responded.  She 
wants this organization to be a forum for young 
people to practice leadership and find their 
own venues for community involvement, not 
another space for adults to call the shots.
The organizers of the meeting talked about 
their marches, their survey findings, the com­
mittees that members have sat on, and their 
goals for the future, including a march for Nel­
son Mandela’s birthday in June. Canteen and 
White demonstrated how to encourage an adult 
to attend the event over the phone. Then the 
New Elm City Dream members pulled out their 
phones to start calling. 

Sailor complained that she invited her sis­
ter to the meeting and her sister didn’t come. 
“That means you keep inviting her,” Alex said. 
Jackie wanted to get the mayor’s number. 
At last week’s meeting, when they first began 
discussing the February event, Jackie almost 
seemed to be joking when she suggested invit­
ing the mayor. But Bergmann said she didn’t 
see any reason not to, and this week Jackie was 
adamant. “I need to call Toni Harp.”  

A year ago, she spoke at the New Elm City 
Dream’s Peace, Love & Jobs march, at which she 
and about seventy-five others chanted: “Jobs 
for youth, jobs for all.” They called on the city 
to offer better careers and more youth commu­
nity centers. After the march, they headed up 
Whalley Avenue to the home of Tramire Miller, 
who had been a year old when he was struck 
by a bullet in the stomach in October 2012. He 
survived, but in Jackie’s speech, she offered her 
condolences for everything he had suffered.
“And I told him when our meetings are,” 
she told me, so when he gets older he’ll know 
to come to the People’s Center at 5:30 every 
Thursday evening. “But I sounded like a baby, 
which was embarrassing.”
“You did not sound like a baby,” Bergmann 
protested.
Jackie shrugged and said she doesn’t get 
nervous in front of crowds, whether or not she 
sounds like a baby. “I don’t want to be in the 
background not talking. This is what it’s here 
for, to have your voice heard.”
Isabelle Taft is a freshman 
in Silliman College. 

26


**Title: Against the Tide**
**Author: Ike Swetlitz**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“I should have seen the peak of my house,” recalled Andy Weinstein. “It wasn’t there.”  
On August 28, 2011, Weinstein stood next to his car on Philip Street in East Haven. The roads sloped down toward the coast. The formerly well-defined border of sand and sea walls had been erased. Hurricane Irene had made her way up the Atlantic shoreline, pummeling the coast and everything on it. Somewhere among the soup of seawater and debris sat the remains of Weinstein’s house. He set out on foot to find it. 

Weinstein’s house was built nearly a century ago, when the beach stretched for fifty or a hundred feet behind the homes, a comfortable buffer. By the time Weinstein started renting the property in 2001, the beach had shrunk drastically. At low tide, there might be twenty feet between water and land. At the highest of high tides—twice a month, under the new or full moon—the water rolled up the beach and ran underneath his house which was elevated off the beach a few feet. When he stepped out of his house on the road-facing side, the water might cover his toes. Weinstein’s beach house was its own island in the Long Island Sound.

Even so, the house remained dry. Weinstein never had water inside the house, and he saw little reason to worry about the hurricane. But just in case, the Friday before the storm, he took the day off from his job at the auto shop he owns to prepare his house. He packed up two days’ worth of clothes, boarded up windows and doors, and moved porch furniture inside. He drove about thirty minutes with his wife and daughter to their primary residence in Woodbridge, expecting to return to East Haven on Sunday afternoon. 

Irene was downgraded to a tropical storm by the time she barreled through Cosey Beach on Saturday night. On Sunday morning, Weinstein got a call from his sister-in-law. She had heard that some houses on the beach were badly damaged, but she didn’t have any details. Weinstein drove down to investigate, expecting to find flooded roads, maybe some water damage.  
A mile from his house, he saw water on the road. He parked the car and continued on foot. By the time he made it to Cosey Beach Avenue, which runs parallel to the shoreline, he was waist-deep.	

Weinstein found his house—half of it, at least. Wet wooden beams lay crisscrossed in a pile of rubble ten feet high, with electrical wires looped over a dirty volleyball and hubcap. The other half was never found, swept into the Sound by the hurricane.
Before returning home to break the news to his family, Weinstein walked to the house two doors down. His cousin, Sara-Ann Auerbach, who owns a home on Cosey Beach Avenue with her husband Hillel, had asked him to retrieve her jewelry and other valuables. She was afraid the water would wash them away. Faced with another pile of rubble, Weinstein took out his cell phone and called her.
“There is no house,” he said.  
“What do you mean, there is no house?” 
 “There is no house.”  
Top: Andy Weinstein’s house in 2010. Bottom: Clear skies follow Hurricane Irene’s destructive path. Weinstein crouches by the ruins of his Cosey Beach home, which had stood strong for nearly a century.


In 2011, Hurricane Irene swept away much of Cosey Beach. It might have seemed fast to the inhabitants, but the damage had been centuries in the making. Waterfront development destroyed natural dune systems that held the sand in place, hastening erosion of the beach. 
Beachfront homes are visibly losing their beachfront, their last line of defense against severe storms. Yet few residents are leaving Cosey Beach. Sara-Ann and Hillel Auerbach rebuilt their home atop thirteen-foot concrete pillars, but Weinstein and his family moved to Woodbridge for good. Some residents of Cosey Beach Avenue have worked to bring the sand back, but scientists caution that this only responds to a symptom, not the cause. The only permanent solution, they say, is to relocate.

Curt Johnson has seen erosion sweep away dozens of feet of beach sand during his lifetime. The Executive Director of Save the Sound, a program run by the Connecticut Fund for the Environment, he grew up less than half a mile from Cosey Beach Avenue. Houses that once sat at a comfortable distance from the shoreline now butt up against the water. 
“At some point in the not-so-distant future, [the beach] is going to move out from under them entirely,” Johnson said. Tanned and relaxed, he looks like he might have spent idyllic childhood summers on the beach, but now his hair has turned gray and his mouth curves down at the corners; it looks like he’s frowning even when he smiles. “And they’re going to have waves crashing around them every day. It’s horrible.”  
Irene and Sandy killed nearly two hundred people and caused about $66 billion in damage, according to the National Hurricane Center. Tens of millions of dollars in federal funding is flowing into coastal areas like New Jersey to restore their beaches to pre-Sandy conditions. And all around the world, scientists and laypeople are on the lookout for more powerful storms, which many believe to be linked to climate change. Whatever is causing these storms, one thing is clear: the storms are putting lives and livelihoods in danger.    

Beaches can protect residents from this danger. During Irene and Sandy, the houses with the least sand between them and the water were the most likely to be destroyed, according to James Tait, an associate professor of science education and environmental studies at Southern Connecticut State University. “Each wave is like a packet of energy,” he said. “That energy can do work. And that work can either be moving sand around or moving houses around.”  
During the peak of the storm, Tait drove out to East Haven to see the waves in action. He parked near a retirement community about seven hundred feet from the beach, and at an elevation of about twenty feet higher than Cosey Beach Avenue. The storm arrived during high tide, which meant that the storm surge—the rush of ocean water brought on by a hurricane—flowed on top of an already-higher sea. In one of the photographs Tait took the morning of Irene, surf sprays around one residence, its neighbor house collapsed into the sea.  
“When you go down there, [you think], ‘how could people possibly be so stupid to build their houses right now at the high tide mark?’” Johnson said. The answer: when many of the homes were built, over a hundred years ago, there was at least fifty feet of beach separating them from the water. The years of beach erosion have caused the distance between shoreline and houses to shrink, in some cases, to zero. 
The amount of sand on a beach is determined by the type of waves that break there. When waves crash down, they loosen sand on the beach and suspend it in the water. If the waves strike rapidly, none of the suspended sand has time to settle down; instead it washes out into the Long Island Sound. Winter storms frequently bring these rapid waves to Cosey Beach. 
If the waves strike less rapidly, sand carried from the ocean bed by the wave can settle on the beach before the next wave arrives. In this case, the beach grows. But less rapid waves powerful enough to deposit sand don’t reach Cosey Beach. Such waves originate from faraway storms and are blocked by the Long Island Sound. And there isn’t enough water between Connecticut and Long Island for the wind to form restorative waves. So the sand never comes back.  



**Title: Cosey Beach**
**Author: Caroline Lester**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
february 2014
31
The beach shrinkage is compounded by 
the presence of humans—specifically, by the 
homes, hotels, and restaurants they build. Ac­
cording to Johnson, there used to be a line of 
dunes on the beach—piles of sand three to five 
feet high. Beach grass grew on top of the dunes 
and sent roots down deep, holding the sand in 
place. But when people started building on the 
beach in the late 1800s, they knocked down 
the dunes, and the beach grass had nowhere to 
grow. Now, the beach is not only flat, but also 
rapidly shrinking.


In 1891, seven cottages dotted the shoreline. 
Seven years later, the New Haven Street Rail­
way Company ran a trolley line from downtown 
to the beach. The ride cost a nickel and took 
about forty-five minutes. Hundreds flocked to 
the beach, building summer cottages and pa­
tronizing restaurants and hotels. A boardwalk 
stretched across Cosey Beach Avenue; there 
were pool halls and old-fashioned ice cream 
stands. Women relaxed on the beach in long 
white dresses, their husbands standing nearby 
in black suits and flat straw hats.  


Anne Hines’s grandfather purchased a 
squat cottage about a quarter-mile from the 
beach in 1910. Five years later, he outfitted it 
with a cellar, a second story, heating, and elec­
tricity. Hines was born in 1938, and she has 
lived in the same house ever since.  


As a child, she spent most of her summers 
there. She was on the beach by 8:30 every morn­
ing, half an hour before swimming lessons be­
gan. Anyone who forgot a swimming suit could 
rent one for a quarter, and boat rentals cost a 
dollar a day.  Hines and her friends passed the 
day playing card games, volleyball, or tennis, 
and working on their tans. “It was the greatest 
place in the world to be,” Hines told me.


In the evening, they gathered at the fire­
house, a few blocks landward of the beach, to 
watch the Branford Manor Drum Corps. Decked 
out in beige slacks, white shirts, and red jackets 
with gold buttons, the Corps marched up and 
down the street, playing their instruments. 
Hines and her friends marched right behind 
them.  


“We just passed the time away together,” 
Hines said. “And that’s what it was all about.”  


The golden age of Cosey Beach came to a 
close after the Second World War. Develop­
ment in the second half of the twentieth cen­
tury brought a new, retirement-age crowd to 
the area. Joseph Vegliante, who built about 
three-dozen houses in East Haven at the time, 
credits the boom to the low interest rates of the 
seventies.


Some long-time residents remain, but they 
agree with Johnson and Tait that the beach 
has been shrinking over the past century. The 
sand that used to be on the beach is not, how­
ever, gone—it’s just sitting out there in the Long 
Island Sound. And that means that people can 
bring it back. With the right technology and 
enough money, they can pull sand up from the 
bottom of the Sound and move it back onto the 
beach. Beach erosion plagues coastal towns 
around the United States, and people have been 
replenishing beaches up and down the Atlantic 
coastline. The Army Corps of Engineers carries 
out the work, and any nonfederal government 
body—a city, a state, or a special tax district, for 
example—can apply to receive this service.  


Over fifty years ago, the Army Corps re­
plenished the beach of West Silver Sands, 
which lies directly to the west of Cosey Beach 
Avenue. West Silver Sands resident Donald Di­
Palma said that his house sustained little dam­
age in Irene and Sandy, for which he credits the 
Army Corps. 


But DiPalma has noticed that the beach is 
smaller than it used to be, even after replenish­
ment. More than half the sand added in 1956 
has already eroded. DiPalma is meeting with 
officials from Connecticut’s Department of 
Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP) 
to secure permits for another replenishment 
project. They need the permits before they can 
apply to the Army Corps. DiPalma doesn’t ex­
pect anything to happen for a few months.


Irene inspired Cosey Beach residents to take 
action. State Senator Len Fasano held a meeting 
in September 2012, about a year and a month 
after the storm, to inform residents about their 
options for keeping their shoreline homes safe. 
One option was to apply to the Army Corps for 
beach replenishment.  


At that meeting, Virginia Cellura, a full-
time resident of Cosey Beach Avenue, volun­
teered to coordinate community efforts to 
replenish the beach. She assembled a team to 
gather information about what would be re­
quired to complete the replenishment and to 
distribute that information to residents. Hillel


--- Page 32 ---

32
the new journal
Auerbach is a New Haven lawyer, and he volun­
teered for the project.


In order to petition the Army Corps, the 
residents needed to apply as a tax district, 
rather than a group of individuals. Residents 
planned to fund the project with a tax to be 
levied upon the district, but they didn’t know 
exactly how much it would cost. Rough esti­
mates from the Army Corps ranged from five 
to ten thousand dollars per house, said Steven 
Ruotolo, who rents property on Cosey Beach 
Avenue. But, mired by miscommunication and 
misinformation, the project fell apart after a 
few meetings. The group has not yet been able 
to form a district, much less petition the Army 
Corps. Cellura has since handed off the reins to 
another Cosey Beach resident, who will soon be 
re-launching the effort to petition the town for 
the creation of the district.  


But even if the residents can get the Army 
Corps to restore some of the sand, it won’t re­
main on the beach for long. Dumping sand on 
top of a beach might make the beach larger, but 
it’s a temporary solution—it’s only a matter of 
time before the water sweeps it back out to sea. 
It’s like building a sand castle. You pack sand 
into buckets and then overturn them, forming 
turrets. You form a wall around your structure, 
patting it all down to make it last. But all you 
did was put something in the way of the water. 
Eventually, the water will wash the sand away. 
“It’s sort of a Sisyphean task,” Tait laughed.


This has happened to beach replenish­
ment projects in other parts of the country. 
The Army Corps has replenished Wrightsville 
Beach, North Carolina, twelve times from 1939 
to 1986. The sand never stuck around for more 
than four years.  


Even so, Tait thinks that beach replenish­
ment is the best solution for the residents of 
Cosey Beach Avenue. Moving the sand from 
the Sound to the shore could protect more 
homes, even if it’s just for now.  Beyond that, 
Tait thinks that the only long-term fix is mov­
ing away.  Many residents are trying; at the end 
of November, at least eight houses along Cosey 
Beach Avenue sported “For Sale” signs.  Wein­
stein has been trying to sell his property for the 
past two years, but hasn’t received a single of­
fer.  Residents say that they haven’t seen any­
one new in the neighborhood in years.  


Some, like Weinstein, could retreat to other 
homes away from the beach. But others have 
nowhere else to go, and policymakers are at a 
loss for how to help them. In late January, a Con­
necticut state agency determined that home­
owners who want the government to buy their 
homes would get no money from a recent grant 
from Federal Emergency Management Agency 
(FEMA). The committee decided that all FEMA 
funds would go to infrastructure projects in­
stead. In a January 31 letter, however, Governor 
Malloy directed the committee to reconvene 
and reconsider their allocation of funds. 


Local legislators presume that state money 
will likewise be unavailable. James Albis, East 
Haven’s state representa­
tive, said he isn’t aware of 
any 
conversations 
about 
state-funded buyback pro­
grams for coastal proper­
ties in dangerous areas, but 
he is concerned with the 
state’s ability to fund such a program. And in 
Connecticut, municipalities have jurisdiction 
over zoning—cities can decide who can build 
what where. Towns like East Haven have an 
incentive to promote development, even in po­
tentially dangerous areas, Albis said, because 
more development means more property taxes. 
He knows that people shouldn’t build homes in 
hazardous places, and he has had conversations 
privately at the state level to try to change zon­
ing laws. “It’s an uphill battle,” Albis told me.  


Meanwhile, at the town level, East Haven 
has its own battles. It wants to help people who 
lost property during the storm, but also recog­
nizes the need to adapt to a changing environ­
ment. For now, the scales are tipping toward 
short-term assistance. “We’ve done our best to 
get people back to normalcy as quickly as pos­
sible,” said Frank Biancur Jr., East Haven’s di­
rector of planning and zoning.  His board has 
approved all permits to rebuild and elevate 
homes on Cosey Beach Avenue, but he can do 
little more. “We can’t force people to come in 
and rebuild,” he said.  


Higher-level government agencies have 
different priorities. Dan Esty, who was the 
commissioner of DEEP during both hurricanes, 
put it bluntly: “A number of people are either 
going to have to move their houses back from 
the shoreline, lift them up on support struc­
tures, or otherwise change the placement of 
their homes.”  Instead of returning people to 
normal—what their lives were like before Irene 
and Sandy—Esty urges them to look toward a 
new normal.


Some have come to that decision them­
selves. At first, Weinstein thought he was going 
to rebuild his house.  He applied for permis­
sion to rebuild along with the Auerbachs, and 
both families got zoning approval and commis­
sioned construction plans.  A few months after 
the storm, Weinstein testified at an insurance 
hearing. His homeowners insurance was deny­
ing him money to pay for damages they claimed 
were caused by water, which was not covered, 
as opposed to wind, which would be. 


At the hearing, Wein­
stein met Albis. Impressed 
by Weinstein’s insight and 
passion, Albis invited Wein­
stein to join the Shoreline 
Preservation Task Force, a 
committee chaired by Al­
bis about how to protect coastal communities. 
Composed of legislators and other citizens, the 
committee produced a report last year with rec­
ommendations to local, state, and federal agen­
cies on how to reduce damage in future storms.  


The more Weinstein learned about erosion 
and rising sea levels, the more he realized that 
rebuilding his house on the beach was a bad 
idea. He didn’t want to be saddled with beach­
front property that would keep disappear­
ing before his eyes. “I’ve probably got another 
twenty years,” Weinstein said. “That’s twenty 
more years of beach erosion.” That means twen­
ty more years of worrying about the security of 
his house and twenty more years of paying to 
raise it, move it back, or replenish the beach.


The tipping point was when he looked 
at maps created by the Nature Conservancy, 
which show what the coastline looks like after 
hurricanes of varying magnitudes. A category 2 
hurricane that would arrive in 2020 will likely 
put Cosey Beach Avenue, and some roads be­
hind it, underwater.  


Others hope it is possible for humans to 
overcome these threats. Sara-Ann, with her 
thirteen-foot-high concrete pillars, says she 
hopes her grandchildren will have a beach to 
play on. Hines is even less worried, and finds 



**Title: the power of the beach**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the new journal
the power of the beach compelling still: “Whatever is bothering you has gone out on the waves 
and you are at peace.”


Tait identified something encouraging 
about the attention to the situation: residents 
are being forced to realize that they’re in a 
fight with nature. What Tait doesn’t say is what 
comes next: many residents remain in denial 
about the cold truth that they’re on the los­
ing side. Some can’t leave Cosey Beach Avenue 
because they can’t sell their property, others 
are financially secure enough to weather any 
storm, and some stay adrift with nostalgia, with 
a sense of home even as the sand under them is 
swept away. 

Ike Swetlitz is a junior in Silliman 
College and an Associate Editor of 
the New Journal.


**Title: Lake**
**Author: Ava Kofman**

Lake
you could not say it
was the lake the
ducks often come
here a nice glide
after dark I
must say the
cold freshens their
feathers and any
way they could hardly
do better now
could they as
the sky blackens they
do so slowly


**Title: endnote**
**Author: Madeleine Witt**
**Page number(s): 35**

endnote


**Title: Philo’s Readers: Affinities, Reception, Transmission and Influence**
**Page number(s): 36**

The Judaic Studies Program at Yale, Yale Divinity School, the Department of 
Religious Studies, the Department of Classics, the Department of Philosophy, and  
the Yale Initiative for the Study of Antiquity and the Premodern World present:
Philo’s Readers: Affinities, 
Reception, Transmission  
and Influence
HAROLD ATTRIDGE
KATELL BERTHELOT
FRANCESCA CALABI
ADELA YARBRO COLLINS
JOHN COLLINS
STEPHEN DAVIS
STEVEN FRAADE
PAUL FRANKS
CHRISTINE HAYES
BENTLEY LAYTON
CARLOS LÉVY
J. G. MANNING
To register for the conference, visit  
www.philosreception.com
March 30 —April 1, 2014
Maurice R. Greenberg Conference Center
391 Prospect Street
New Haven, Connecticut
PARTICIPANTS
conference made possible by the william and miriam horowitz fund
The conference will bring together a number of scholars from different 
disciplines, centering around the Jewish philosophical exegete, Philo. 
This conference will situate Philo in his geographical, philosophical, and 
ideological context, looking for affinities and precursors in other ancient 
texts. The conference will also examine Philo’s reception and influence, 
particularly among Jewish and Christian readers.
DALE MARTIN
HINDY NAJMAN
MAREN NIEHOFF
PAUL NORTH
BENJAMIN POLLOCK
GRETCHEN REYDAMS-SCHILS
DAVID RUNIA
GREGORY E. STERLING
MICHAEL D. SWARTZ
MOULIE VIDAS
BENJAMIN WRIGHT
STUDENT PARTICIPANTS
SONJA ANDERSON
MATTHEW LARSEN
STEWART MOORE
TYLER SMITH 
SHLOMO ZUCKIER
CONFERENCE ORGANIZERS

