Publication date: February 2011
Volume: 45
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD**
- Publishers: Samantha Ellner, Tim Shriver
- Editors-in-Chief: Haley Cohen, Kate Selker
- Managing Editors: Max Ehrenfreund, Jacque Feldman
- Production Manager: Jimmy Murphy
- Photo & Design Editors: Brianne Bowen, Susannah Shattuck, Andrew Nelson
- Senior Editors: Bob Jeffery, Eleanor Kenyon, Sarah Mich, Sarah Nutman, Maya Seidler
- Copy Editors: Heeseung Kim, Victor Zapana
- Associate Editors: Julia Fisher, Helen Knight
- Online Editor: Bay Gross
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Roger Cohn, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O’Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
Editors’ Note - 
Points of Departure - 
Snapshot - 
Down to the Wire - Eleanor Kenyon
A Talk with Gay Talese - 
Profile - 
Where Less is More - Andrew McCreary
Personal Essay - 
On Height and Hiding - Cory Finley
Endnote - Victor Zapana
Dreaming On - Liane Membis
Oceans Away - Helen Gao
Apples to Apples - Jacque Feldman


**Title: Down to the Wire**
**Author: Eleanor Kenyon**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: A Talk with Gay Talese**
**Author: **
**Page number(s): 10**


**Title: Where Less is More**
**Author: Andrew McCreary**
**Page number(s): 12**


**Title: On Height and Hiding**
**Author: Cory Finley**
**Page number(s): 14**


**Title: Dreaming On**
**Author: Liane Membis**
**Page number(s): 22**


**Title: Oceans Away**
**Author: Helen Gao**
**Page number(s): 29**


**Title: Apples to Apples**
**Author: Jacque Feldman**
**Page number(s): 36**


**Title: Endnote**
**Author: Victor Zapana**
**Page number(s): 39**



**Editors’ Note**
**Author: Haley Cohen and Kate Selker, co-Editors-in-Chief**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In the spirit of this year’s theme, the editors of The New Journal find it 
appropriate to explain the roots of our very own name. The New Journal is not, in fact, 
all that new—we’ve been around since 1967. What the title refers to is the concept 
of “new journalism,” a name for long-form nonfiction that was coined in the 1960s 
and popularized by Truman Capote, Gay Talese, and Tom Wolfe. “New Journalism” 
was used to describe writing that went against established convention and brought 
creativity and artfulness to the field of nonfiction. The New Journal itself was Yale’s 
response to this shift in style and an attempt by students to shake up Yale’s journalistic 
scene. 

In 1967, The New Journal’s founding editors penned the following mission statement:
“The university has once again reached the stage in history where people are taking 
about the New Yale, presumably to be distinguished from the Old Yale, which in its 
own day was presumably considered new. 
“Wishing to share in this modernity, we have chosen The New Journal as the name for 
our publication. Besides, things seemed slow around here.”

Forty-four years later, we may not be new anymore, but we’re still trying to invigorate 
and enlighten. We are still striving to push the boundaries of reporting at Yale—
touching issues no one else will and exploring them in depth. We hope our work will 
not just make you think, but make you feel. After all, journalism provides the seed of 
information and the light of perspective—but it is up to you, dear readers, to let these 
thoughts take root.
—Haley Cohen and Kate Selker,  co-Editors-in-Chief


**Back to Square One**
**Author: Max Ehrenfreud**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

February 2011
11 is our 61; 111 is 3661. The 
Babylonians also used this system 
for astronomical calculations, which 
is why we still have 60 seconds in a 
minute and 3,600 in an hour. When 
historians 
translate 
Babylonian 
numbers, they separate each digit 
with commas to avoid confusion, so 
that 1,10 is 70, just as 1:10 a.m. is 70 
minutes past midnight.)
With 
such 
a 
complicated 
numerical system, learning your 
times tables took dedication. The 
largest tablet on display at ISAW, 
also part of Yale’s collection, was 
a multiplication table, about 10” x 
8”. “We think they learned them 
all,” says Melville. “There was a set 
of 40 multiplication tables you had 
to learn, and you practiced them. 
People in the ancient Near East 
had what seem to us prodigious 
memories.”

Four millennia ago in northern 
Mesopotamia, 
archeologists 
speculate, a young Babylonian was 
practicing geometry. One problem 
required finding the length of the 
diagonal of a square. Taking his 
circular tablet of damp clay in one 
hand and his favorite reed in the 
other, he copied down the exercise, 
sketching out a diagram of a square 
with a few hasty strokes. He wrote 
the square root of two along one 
diagonal, multiplied by the side 
length, and scrawled the solution 
across the clay.

Having lain in the sand for a 
little under four thousand years, his 
discarded assignment is now part 
of the Yale Babylonian Collection: 
the oldest extant record of an 
approximation of the square root 
of two. The young scribe’s work 
became the centerpiece of “Before 
Pythagoras: The Culture of Old 
Babylonian Mathematics,” a recent 
exhibit at the Institute for the Study 
of the Ancient World at New York 
University.

The student may have been 
just applying a formula he learned 
in school. There’s no proof he 
understood why multiplying a side 
length by root two gave the length 
of the diagonal. But his tablet is 
evidence that mathematicians in 
the Old Babylonian Period (2000-
1600 B.C.E.) knew what we call the 
Pythagorean Theorem more than 
a millennium before Pythagoras 
taught in Athens. The approximation 
this Babylonian scribe used differs 
from the actual value of root two by 
only 0.0000006.

The exercise is “particularly 
cute,” 
says 
Duncan 
Melville, 
a professor of the history of 
mathematics 
at 
St. 
Lawrence 
University. “It’s particularly easy.” 
That is, if you can read cuneiform 
base-60 
notation. 
(Babylonian 

The multiplication tables, in 
short, were of epic length. And if the 
system Babylonian mathematicians 
used to calculate square roots was 
as unwieldy as the 480-pound sword 
Gilgamesh used to slay Humbaba, it 
was also just as effective.

To divide, they multiplied 
by reciprocals. Melville calls this 
exercise “cute” because the side 
of the square on this tablet is 30 
units long. That’s Babylonian for 
one-half—they had no equivalent 
of a decimal point—so when you 
multiply the side by root two, the 
length of the diagonal is just the 
reciprocal of root two. See how that 
comes out? Easy.

The exhibit at ISAW received an 
enthusiastic response. The museum 
had planned to close the exhibit on 
December 17, but, due to demand, 
it was extended another month. 
CNN and The New York Times both 
interviewed Melville about it. Alice 
Slotsky, a colleague of Melville’s 
who lives in Providence, Rhode 
Island, told me, “A lot of people do 
Babylonian astronomy. Not many 
do math and do it correctly. As far 
as I’m concerned, he’s the master.” 
“It’s great,” Melville told me. 
“It’s an obscure field that’s not on 
people’s radar very often.”

Melissa Dallal and Tracy White 
visited the exhibit for Dallal’s 
birthday. Dallal’s parents, she said, 
are Jews from northern Iraq, so 
she’s taken an interest in Babylonian 
history. “It just makes me wish I 
understood math to begin with,” 
White told me.

NYU 
Provost 
David 
McLaughlin was also curious to see 
the exhibit. “It’s striking, the age 
of the materials,” he said to me. “I 
didn’t appreciate how much math 
was known then.”

Babylonian math looks very 
familiar. A multipart word problem 
from one tablet suggests a pre-
algebra textbook from a Babylonian 
junior high school: “A canal’s length 
is five us, its width is three cubits, 
its depth is 3 cubits. A worker’s daily 
load of earth is 10 gin. A worker’s 
daily wages are 6 se of silver. What 
is the canal’s surface area, its volume, 
the number of workers needed to 
dig it, and the total cost in silver?”

Other tablets involve more 
theoretical math. One is a list of 
Pythagorean triples—the lengths 
of sides of various right triangles. 
Others list problems that the ancient 
Babylonians lacked the techniques 
to solve—evidence of mathematical 
research.

“The 
abstraction 
of 
the 
concept of number, that takes a 
long time to develop,” said Melville. 
There 
are 
centuries 
between 
adding goats and cattle in the 
sand and approximating quadratic 
roots. Because the Babylonians 
used clay, historians can chart the 
development of their mathematical 
system from everyday arithmetic 
to the most theoretical exercises, 
explained Melville. Other societies’ 
writing 
materials—papyrus, 
for 
example—have decayed over the 
centuries.

 “What you see on a social 
level is very similar to what you see 
with children: dealing concretely 
with blocks and bricks and things, 
moving gradually to manipulating 
abstract numbers,” he added.

The 
numbers 
themselves, 
though, have not changed meaning 
since Babylonian times. Root two 
means exactly the same thing today 
as it did to the young man who wrote 
it down. So while Yale’s tablet is 
nothing more than a rough diagram 
of a square and a few numbers 
scribbled in cuneiform, it offers an 
unobstructed view into an ancient 
mind. It can be difficult to imagine 
what life must have been like for the 
Babylonians, but it isn’t hard to look 
at the square root of two on that 
crumbling piece of clay and imagine 
holding the tablet, its grooves still 
crisp, its base slightly warm from the 
palm of a classmate’s hand.
- Max Ehrenfreud


**Root Beer & Skittles**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 6**

The invention of root beer 
predates 
our 
nation. 
Native 
American warriors during the French 
and Indian War carried sugar and 
ginger to flavor their water. Hardy 
White Mountain backwoodsmen 
sustained themselves with maple 
sap boiled with spruce twigs. Even 
250 years later, the recipe isn’t too 
different. At Foxon Park, a small 
family-owned soda manufacturer in 
East Haven, the Naclerio family has 
combined syrup with sugar, water, 
preservatives, and carbon dioxide in 
the same formula they’ve used since 
1928. 

Foxon Park’s customers are 
loyal. Locals grow up eating apizza 
and drinking Foxon Park in Wooster 
Square. Coca-Cola Co. has come 
sniffing around their turf, their 
pubs, and their production facility 
a few times, explains Jay Brancati, 
manager of daily operations and 
an in-law of the Naclerios, but the 
people of New Haven know what 
they will drink. He adds, bemusedly, 
that Foxon Park often recieves fan 
mail—love letters, truly. “I drive 
down the road and people scream 
and give me the thumbs-up.” 
Brancati shakes his head. “I don’t 
know why people get so worked up 
about it—it’s just soda.” 

People love root beer partly 
for its flavor, but also for the 
impressions it evokes. Foxon Park 
operates on this emotional power—
its sodas taste of the past. But is it 
possible for us, in sipping an earth 
brew, to tap into the collective 
memory of the past, to think back 
beyond our own experiences? Can 
we drink in the history of our worn 
northeastern mountains and the 
bright chill of facing a new land?

Foxon Park operates out of two 
small warehouses. Dressed mostly in 
navy Foxon Park sweatsuits, seven 
men work there, loading cases and 
ducking around bottling machines. 
Foxon Park began with the 
freshwater spring that still flows out 
back. There, in 1922, Jay Brancati’s 
great-grandfather-in-law, 
Matteo 
Naclerio, founded a mineral water 
company that became the soda 
brand in 1928. Brancati and his men 
still use the spring to bottle Foxon’s 
17 flavors of soda, which include 
the root beer and best-selling white 
birch beer, sold in glass twist-top 
bottles. The company belongs to 
the family and they work hard to 
make sure it stays that way. “I’m 
working every day like a schmuck, 
just trying to keep it going for our 
children’s children,” Brancati told 
me in the upstairs office, next to his 



**Title: Know Your Wyrts**
**Author: Juliana Hanle**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In the garden of the English 
language, “root” is a word in fairly 
fresh soil. Though the word itself 
has a very long history, it came into 
our language only recently, brought 
by Vikings about 1000 years ago. 
The word “root” came into Old English from Old Norse, the 
language of the Vikings, as rot, with 
a long ‘o’ (/o/, roughly like the ‘o’ in 
Spanish burro).

Even 
before 
“root” 
was 
adopted into Old English, the 
language already had a form cognate 
(that is, a word originating from a 
common verbal ancestor) to rot—
the word wyrt. All of the Germanic 
words for plant/root descend from 
the 
Proto-Indo-European 
noun 
which can be simply rendered as 
*wrod or, in another form, *wrd, 
from which both rot and wyrt are 
ultimately derived.

Looking at spotted lungwort 
leaves, one might assume, falsely 
if justifiably, that “-wort” has 
something to do with “warts.” 
Actually, “-wort” comes from the 
aforementioned Old English wyrt, 
which means “plant.” Therefore 
“lungwort” literally means “lung-
plant” (it is the “lung” and not 
the “-wort” part that refers to the 
pattern on the leaves). 

A modern-day Swede or Dane 
might be able to tell you as much 
intuitively—in Swedish, one of 
the modern words for plant is ört, 
comparable to the Danish urt. Both 
come from an Old Norse urt. So, did 
Old Norse possess two cognates of 
the same root, rot and urt? Yes, but 
only in the same sense Old English possessed both rot and wyrt.




**Title: The Banner's Office**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Few know the location of the 
office of the Banner, Yale’s yearbook. 
In fact, many students don’t even 
know that Yale has a yearbook, 
according to Banner senior class 
liason Ryan Carter ’11. So when that 
office was robbed the weekend of 
Safety Dance, the Banner’s six staff 
members were bewildered—first 
walking, then running from room to 
room searching for the two freshly 
delivered Macs (complete with 
Adobe CS5) that had mysteriously 
vanished. “It was right after we 
moved in,” editor-in-chief Evelyn 
Lopez ’11 says. “So we thought at 
first maybe we didn’t remember the 
room correctly. But no…” 

The Macs were never found, 
but all sorts of other things can 
be discovered inside the Banner’s 
office suite, which includes a large 
common room full of couches 
(belonging not to the Banner but to 
Lopez), a coffee table (also Lopez’s), 
a wall of bookshelves stacked with 
Banners, empty wine bottles, empty 
cardboard boxes, an antiquated 
Schwinn bicycle, and a half-
constructed desk. The darkroom 
next door is littered with half-empty 
jugs of processing chemicals and 
possibly valuable but definitely 
unusable photo equipment. There’s 
a future office space in which each 
Banner member has tagged the 
desk where he or she hopes to sit 
one day, a computer room with 
replacement Macs, and an oversized 
storage closet lined almost floor-
to-ceiling with boxes. Each weighs 
at least 60 pounds and contains 
hundreds and hundreds of leftover 
and undelivered yearbooks, as well 
as abandoned copies of Old Campus, 
the yearbook for the freshman class. 

The boxes used to cover the 
floor of the common room. As soon 
as Lopez moved in, she organized 
cleaning and moving days, during 
which Banner staff moved each 
and every box into storage. Lopez’s 
tenure marks the second year that 
students have led the yearbook’s 
production, which was taken over 
in 1995 by the Association of Yale 
Alumni after former Banner staff 
took out a loan of $150,000 for 
equipment, which the publication 
was unable to repay. The loan is 
still outstanding. When Lopez met 
last year’s Banner editors after an 
information session last spring, she 
told them, “Look, I’m not going 
to lie, I want to be editor-in-chief.” 
They agreed, and left their boxes for 
her.

Tidying up the office might 
seem like an odd priority for an 
organization that struggles with lack 
of interest, lack of involvement, 
and lack of funding. In recent 
years, however, the office was so 
neglected that an unidentified man 
once moved in after the spring term 
ended. He slept on a futon in the 
desk-room; he also had several boxes 
full of possessions that he tagged 
with his name. Lopez threw all of 
these items away (well, except the 
futon, which the staff still uses).  At


**Title: History in the Making**
**Author: J. Max Mikitish**

POINTS OF DEPARTURE
History in the 
Making
did. Just as “root” is a borrowing 
from Old Norse, so was Old Norse 
urt a borrowing from Old English 
wyrt.

 There is a third cognate of 
wrod in English as well. This is 
the “rad-” element of words such 
“radical” and “radish.” All words of 
this rough group are derived, in one 
way or another, from the Latin radix, 
“root.” “Radish,” in fact, is a direct 
borrowing from Latin (the stem, or 
base form, of the Latin word was 
radic- with a hard c, changed into 
a “sh”-sound by the Anglo-Saxon 
borrowers). 

Then how did the word 
“radical” become a synonym for 
“extreme” or “divergent”? One 
might think an adjective meaning 
“related to roots” would apply to 
conservative, 
old-fashioned, 
or 
fundamentalist views. Indeed, in 
post-Classical Latin, when radicalis 
came into written use, it originally 
carried the meaning of “primary” 
or “original.”  However, in French, 
the word’s applications ballooned in 
number, and it soon came to mean 
“profound” or “intense”—and from 
“intensity” to modern “radicalism” 
the jump seems not too far at all. 

While the link between modern-
day revolutionaries and a certain red 
vegetable seems unlikely, the names 
for both are well rooted in the past. 
- J. Max Mikitish



**Title: The Yale Banner's Resurrection**
**Author: Elisa Gonzalez**
**Page number(s): 9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
February 2011
the time, it seems, the squatter didn’t 
matter—either because no one used 
the office or because no one cared. 
Now, the editors are so concerned 
with office orderliness because they 
see the rundown Banner offices as 
a barrier to fulfilling the promise 
of The Yale Banner, the country’s 
oldest college yearbook. They are 
remodeling in order to reinvigorate 
and resurrect.

“Resurrection” has become the 
keyword for the 2011 Banner: new 
birth, new beginnings, new year, new 
yearbook. This might be a necessary 
strategy given that, despite 169 years 
of history, as Carter put it, “people 
don’t know Yale has a yearbook.”  
That Yale students would not 
know or care to know about their 
school’s own yearbook mystifies 
Eddie Breaux, proprietor of a bed 
and breakfast called McKendrick-
Breaux House in New Orleans, 
Louisiana, and one of the foremost 
amateur collectors of yearbooks. 
He owns many copies of the Banner 
and several rare specialty items 
of memorabilia, such as a Yale 
autograph book hand-made in the 
1850s for students to collect each 
other’s signatures. His enthusiasm 
for the Banner (and yearbooks 
in general) is enormous. He will 
probably not buy the 2011 yearbook, 
though—he is less interested in 
modern designs. 
Maybe 
someday, 
a 
future 
collector with an interest in arcane 
class data, quotes, and photos of 
students from 2011 posing against a 
speckled blue background may want 
to buy a copy. 

And someday, the editors 
hope, a new generation will care. 
In the cleaning process, they have 
found that others once did. Lopez 
and her staff unearthed mementos 
of past editors, including several 
oblong concrete blocks with names 
and nicknames painted on them—
clearly part of an inside joke. Now, 
the Banner staff is on the outside. 
Lopez points to them, saying, “See, 
there used to be a culture here. 
These meant something, but I have 
no idea what, so I’m throwing them 
out. We’re starting over.” 

Starting over means an eager but 
novice staff. Lopez, who has never 
edited a yearbook before, asserts, 
“We learn by doing here.” They 
are learning, they say, to get seniors 
to show up for yearbook photos, 
to fill out questionnaires, to offer 
candid photos. They are learning to 
do layout and design, to interact as 
coworkers, and to deal with difficult 
customers: a senior who insists on 
using her own glamour shot instead 
of a professionally taken photo, 
a mother who calls Lopez to find 
out if her son sat for his yearbook 
photo instead of calling the suspect 
himself. 

The staff jokes and exchanges 
Secret Santa gifts, creating new 
traditions to take the place of the 
mysterious blocks. The Banner has 
a culture again, and they’ve tried 
their best to make it different from 
that of the past 168 years. But 
despite clearing out the old boxes 
and shelving thousands of tomes, 
it’s clear that history still weighs on 
them. When they get serious, they 
say they “can’t let the oldest college 
yearbook in the nation die.” 

And if they get their way, 
the Banner won’t. The class of 2011 
will buy their books at $100 each 
and keep them forever—or at least 
sell them to appreciative collectors 
some years down the road.


**Title: SNAPSHOT Down to the Wire**
**Author: Eleanor Kenyon**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
January 28, 1878, stands 
out in Yale history as the 
birthday of the Yale 	
	
Daily News, the nation’s 	
	
oldest college daily. That 
inaugural News—“justified by the 
dullness of the time and the de-
mand for news among us”—told 
older Elis of local happenings—
incoming Evangelicals, colleagues 
taking leave, and the arrival of fe-
male rowers from Wellesley College. 
(Advertisements informed students 
that “Merle, fashionable barber, the 
most liked of all by the students” 
was closed on Sundays, and 296 
Chapel St. now sold “Delmonico’s 
Cocoanut Cream.”) That same day, 
city residents rang in another era 
in communication, its impact not 
yet discernible to college report-
ers: the District Telephone Com-
pany of New Haven launched the 
world’s first commercial telephone 
exchange. 


In 1877, a telegraph com-
pany manager named George W. 
Coy sat in on a lecture by Alexander 
Graham Bell at Skiff’s Opera House 
in New Haven. Bell’s discussion of 
the implications of the telephone 
on business and trade—and accom-
panying music transmitted over a 
three-way New Haven-Middletown-
Hartford connection—spurred Coy 
into action. A pair of investors and 
a smattering of metal pieces bor-
rowed from ladies’ bustles, carriage 
bolts, and teapot lids allowed Coy 
to whip up a telephone switchboard 
in the Boardman Building, at the 
corner of Chapel and State streets. 
$1.50—in those days, the price of a 
roundtrip to New York on the over-
night steamer “Elm City”—bought 
New Haven residents a month’s sub-
scription to the exchange; iron wire 
strung between housetops, trees, 
and the occasional small pole con-
nected the new Boston-made Bell 
devices. “The Greatest Thing Out! 
Telephone!” ran an advertisement 
in the week-old News. “Can make 
connections with anyone else hav-
ing instrument in the city.” For the 
first time in history, the human voice 
could transcend distance.  


In just a few years, Coy’s 
telephone networks bloomed in 
New Haven and beyond. A Yalie 
with a Cooperative Society card in 
1886 could call from a central cam-
pus phone, which could, according 
to the News,  “furnish us with the 
desired information or impart our 
commands without delay.” The New 
Haven Daily Palladium, a local paper, 
lauded the telephone as a “blessed 
institution” for keeping the city con-
nected through a traffic-and-train-
stopping blizzard in 1888. After 
New Haven, exchanges popped up 
in Hartford and Bridgeport, Boston, 
and New York. By the 1890’s, there 
were over 15,000 telephones in the 
country. 


During the twentieth cen-
tury, the progress of technology 
built sturdier telephone poles and 
put lines underground; now-insu-
lated cables connected disparate 
voices. (By 1925, telephone lines 
stretched for 67.9 million miles 
across the country.) First, copper 
wire and then fiber optics replaced 
iron lines; public phone boxes led 
to rotary dials, touch-tones, and 
cordless handsets. Area codes 
usurped exchange names; satellites 
replaced switchboards. The District 
Telephone Company became the 
Connecticut Telephone Company, 
Connecticut Telephone became 
Southern New England Telephone; 
telecommunications giant AT&T 
came to town in 1998. At first, Yale 
students had a telephone in every 
hall. Soon there was one in every 
room. 

Today, 133 years after Coy set up 
his exchange, the dial tone in 
New Haven is fading. AT&T, which 
employs 5,500 workers in Con-
necticut, lost 150,000 lines in the 
state a little over a year ago.  And 
after laying off 152 state landline 
repair workers last October, it an-
nounced plans in late January to lay 
off 41 additional employees and is 
now facing a $1.1 million fine for 
breaching state service standards 
for landline repairs. 


Soon, the number of 
mobile telephones is expected to 
exceed the number of landlines in 
the nation. AT&T representative 
Chuck Corsey acknowledged that 
while the company has reduced 
jobs in their shrinking wired busi-
ness, it continues to hire in grow-
ing areas—“particularly wireless 
and video.” These days, radio waves 
have replaced wires as our choice 
connectivity medium, as cell phones 
project our voices across and over, 
rather than through, the landscape. 


While landlines continue 
to link the offices and departments 
of Yale, the ringing that once re-
sounded in residences has been 
replaced with techno jingles and 
not-so-indiscreet vibrations, with 
tweets and texts tumbling across 
campus and classrooms. In fall 
2010, students made 17% fewer 
calls off-campus from in-room 
lines than they did in 2009, and 
30% fewer calls than in 2007. Stu-
dents’ numbers might begin with a 
917, 617, 404, or 415, rather than a 
203. While there are no immediate 
plans to phase out the 3,040 land-
lines associated with undergraduate 
residences, the proliferation of cell 
phones is causing ITS to evaluate 
future options, according to David 
Galassi, Yale’s director of network 
services.


Few Yalies know someone 
with a dorm phone installed, but 
you’ll still have to dial through to 
one to reach Jonathan Kreiss-Tom-
kins ’12. The self-described “reso-
lutely parsimonious” student from 
Alaska owns no mobile device, and 
depends on a friend’s room phone 
to stay in touch. “People joke that 
I’m the only one,” he laughed. “In 
some cases it’s inconvenient for 
others, and I feel bad about that,” 
he said. But Kreiss-Tomkins’ result-
ing need to make plans in advance, 
to “be a little more organized and 
on top of it,” suggests that our in-
creasing interconnectivity has its 
casualties. 


By pinning an individual 
to place, the landline phone de-
mands dependability. (It should 
be noted, however, that Kreiss-
Tomkins routes his landline number 
through Google Voice, allowing him 
to receive voicemails wherever he 
brings his laptop.)


According to Paul Need-
ham ’11, when News staff members 
reviewed the landlines assigned to 
202 York St. last summer, they found 
dozens of numbers—some assigned 
to dark rooms, to pasting rooms, 
and even a “lettering room”—that 
had fallen out of use. When Need-
ham was editor-in-chief, reporters 
and editors across town or across 
the building would email or text 
message him to communicate, while 
adults continued to dial his office 
line. Needham professed to like the 
“clear connection” provided by his 
desk phone, but the landline is more 
than just static-free. The wires wo-
ven in the walls of the News, active 
and inactive, serve as lines between 
generations of students’ profes-
sional and personal lives, grounded 
in purpose.


In Bell’s original telephone 
transmitter, sound waves produced 
the electrical energy to work the de-
vice. Now, though, hastily composed 
messages displace voices from the 
communication process, sacrificing 
sound for convenience. Perhaps in 
New Haven, the birthplace of the 
commercial telephone exchange, we 
feel the loss of the dial tone more 
strongly—or perhaps we can accept 
that a beloved hometown tradition is 
coming to an end.  

**Title: SNAPSHOT A Talk with Gay Talese**
**Author: Joyce Tenneson**
**Page number(s): 12**

Gay 
Talese 
is 
widely 
recognized as a pioneer of literary 
nonfiction, a journalistic genre that uses 
artful writing to tell factually accurate 
narratives, the same type of journalism 
we publish in The New Journal. 


Earlier this year, one New 
Journal editor in Anne Fadiman’s 
nonfiction class was lucky enough to 
listen to Talese speak. Since our words 
cannot do justice to how Talese has 
shaped the field of literary journalism, 
we’ll let his speak for themselves.
On nonfiction storytelling 
and history:


You should never deviate 
from the facts. You should never 
use your imagination just because 
you want to fill in the spaces to 
make a better story. But even if 
you adhere to the traditions of 
serious nonfiction, you can still be 
a storyteller. Nonfiction is art, but it 
also has a reference point in history. 
You don’t have to write about 
Lincoln to be a historian. You can 
write about obscure people and be 
a historian, because obscure people 
still represent their time. 
On note-taking: 


Instead of a notepad, I use 
shirt boards from the dry cleaner. 
I take a shirt board, and then I get 
scissors and cut it into note cards that 
I use like a notepad. I should patent 
the idea. I usually don’t take notes in 
front of my subjects; I sneak off and 
jot down things on these cards. They 
fit in my suit and don’t stick out like 
the wires on stupid little journalism 
pads.


On persistence:


Sometimes I go over the 
same damn sentence or the same 
paragraph five dozen times. I start 
writing in pencil, and then I go to 
a typewriter and type it over. I just 
do it again and again, and finally, 
finally I say, this is about as good 
as I’m going to do. And then I 
go to the next thing, and that’s it.  
There’s no limit on the time I will 
spend.  
On following up (theory):


If you’re a typical journalist, 
one who thinks in terms of a single 
day, you don’t follow up because 
you’ve done the story. I always want 
to do a follow-up because there 
is a continuation. What seemed 
relevant when you first interviewed 
them might cease to be relevant, but 
they move on, they get older, they 
lose their jobs, they get voted out 
of office, they get dismissed from 
the baseball team. Whatever it is—
they’re still alive, and they still have 
something to say.


No matter who you’re 
writing about, their stories are not 
going to finish because you’ve 
finished them. If you want to keep 
them alive, you can go back, and 
back, and back, and back. And if you 
do that artfully enough, you’re doing 
something creative.
On following up (praxis): 


In 1964, I published a book 
called The Bridge about the building 
of a bridge between Brooklyn and 
Staten Island called the Verrazano-
Narrows. I spent the better part of 
three years doing it. In 1960, the 
first stage began with the eviction 
of 8,000 people in Brooklyn whose 
stores or homes happened to be in 
the pathway to this new bridge. So 
these people were driven out of 
a section of Brooklyn called Bay 
Ridge, and I wrote about that. 


It was like a war. Like a 



**Title: Mary Ellen Mark**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
13
February 2011
Mary Ellen Mark
Talese with his wife, Nan, and two dogs. 
bombing. People who had lived 
there for 30 years, whose children 
lived there, whose grandchildren 
may have lived there, were evicted. 
[The government said]: This bridge 
had to be built, this bridge was 
important, this bridge was going 
to do magnificent things by linking 
Brooklyn and Staten Island. But for 
8,000 people, it meant death to their 
homes, it meant the eradication of 
their neighborhood, it meant the 
severance of relationships. 


But that was just the 
beginning of the story. Because 
into 
this 
neighborhood, 
this pathway to the bridge that 
once would have been filled with 
homes, walked a whole new cast of 
characters—all kinds of hard hats 
and cement mixers. And I started 
following their stories. 


And then finally, over the 
next year or two, out of the water, 
out of the Narrows, which is part of 
the lower Hudson Bay area near the 
Statue of Liberty, came these struts 
of steel, came these barges carrying 
materials, came these people from 
faraway places: high aerial workers, 
people who build skyscrapers, 
people who build bridges, people 
who take chances in the air, who 
sometimes fall down and die but 
don’t even get an obituary because 
they’re nobodies in a way. 


But they’re somebodies to 
me. They’re like cathedral builders. 
Who built all those cathedrals you 
see on your junior year abroad? 
People like the bridge builders who 
cut the little rivets and link the steel. 
You can’t see them do it because 
they’re operating five hundred, 
six hundred feet above the water. 
Their names aren’t on the base 
of the bridge. But what they do is 
magnificent, and it’s there if you’re 
curious and you’re a writer. 


I kept in touch with a 
number of those people, and in 
2003, many, many years after that 
bridge was finished, I looked up the 
ones who were still alive. I learned 
for the first time that many of them 
went on to build the World Trade 
Center in ’65, ’66. And many of 
them, I’d say, that on September 11, 
2001, many of them were watching 
television and saw the work they’d 
spent three years doing crumble 
into ash between the sunrise and 
sunset of a single day. 


So 
I 
started 
talking 
to them about what it’s like to 
see such a thing, even if it’s on 
television, and they started telling 
me how embarrassed they were as 
construction workers when they 
worked on the building of the Twin 
Towers. They said that compared 
to the sturdiness of the bridge, the 
design was flimsy. In essence, the 
World Trade Centers were gilded 
birdcages. Glass birdcages. There 
was no real solid steel in there. 


But the point is, these old 
bridge-builders that I saw in their 
lively form back in 1962, ’63, ’64—
here in 2000, 2003—had a story. 


It’s the story of how 
different it was working on the 
towers than the bridge, which 
would have deflected the terrorists’ 
planes like a screen door deflecting 
a moth. But when the planes hit 
those birdcages, which were shoddy 
to begin with, flawed in their design, 
and avaricious in concept—they 
went down in a matter of six, seven 
hours. That’s a story. 
On 
the 
power 
of 
microcosms:
Stories can be small and big at the 
same time.
TNJ



**Title: Where Less Is More**
**Author: Andrew McCreary**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

14
The New Journal
P
lacido Mastroianni cuts hair 
in a barbershop he calls a 
salon. “Salone means ‘you 
receive the people,’” he says. He 
takes a little off the top from any 
man who comes in. Men who don’t 
have much hair on their heads still 
have a lot on their minds.  In the 
weeks before November 2, 2010, 
their minds were on the mid-term 
elections. And Mastroianni, like 
any good barber, was ready to comb 
out the tangles. 


One 
customer 
calls 
Mastroianni the Walter Winchell 
of Whalley Avenue. Like New 
York’s old-time radio host, the 
New Haven barber seems to know 
what’s happening everywhere at 
once. But the comparison falls 
short. Winchell once ruffled his 
national audience by saying that 
President Truman “does not know 
what the h-e-double-l is going on.” 
Mastroianni, on the other hand, 
whose voice is as reassuring as his 
hands are deliberate, takes care not 
to prick anyone’s ears.  He focuses 
through his terracotta-colored rims 
and snips head hair, ear hair, nose 
hair, and “these three hairs on the 
neck,” he tells a customer, “because 
it bothers me.” 


Customers come to talk; 
Mastroianni does the listening.
Listening has long been 
his livelihood. As a boy working the 
fields of Amorosi, Italy, Mastroianni 
listened for approaching American 
bombers.  School had closed for the 
war, and when the chores were done 
and the sky grew silent, he and his 
brothers became joyful vagabondes. 
They roved through the soldiers’ 
camp outside town, where they 
played soccer and sometimes shared 
an idle soldier’s single cigarette.  On 
weekends, the children gathered 
to hear the war news at the village 
barbershop. 


When 
Mastroianni 
immigrated to Connecticut at age 
17, he strained to hear instructions 
spoken in English over the din of 
factory equipment. He listened well 
and, wanting to become his own 
boss, left the factory four years later 
to enroll in barber school.  Cutting 
hair has made up for an education 
cut short by the war.  Since 1953, 
he has listened to as many as four 
men an hour (indeed a barber must, 
to make ends meet) and has mulled 
over each day’s news during the 
slow spells.  After 57 years of work, 
Mastroianni’s back has come to 
rest at a curve somewhere between 
its one-quarter stoop for tending 
to black curls, grey tufts, and 
white wisps, and its three-quarter 
hunch for reading about the 1970 
election of an Italian-American 
mayor in New Haven, the 1983 
bombing of the Marine barracks 
in Beirut, and the 2004 undoing 
of the Great Bambino’s curse on 
the Boston Red Sox.  He looks up 
from the New Haven Register on his 
heavy desk.  “All of a sudden, you 
sit here for hours, nobody comes 
in, you wonder, ‘What the fuck 
happened?’”


But the bells have always 
jangled again at the glass door, and 
each time, Mastroianni has risen 
to his feet to cut more hair, to 
listen to another side of the story. 
An American veteran once told of 
flying over Mastroianni’s village 
during the Second World War.  He 
dropped bombs near the town, low 
on fuel and forced to lighten his 
load. Other customers have brought 
stories that have become part of 
Mastroianni’s own. He once listened 
carefully to the mother of two boys 
whose hair he cut as she described 
her sister’s imminent arrival from 
Italy. Mastroianni won over that 
sister not long after she landed; the 
boys are now his nephews.


O
n a morning in election 
season, the golden light on 
Whalley Avenue looks warmer 
than it feels, and the red and blue 
posters promise more than seems 
possible.  Shaw’s Supermarket is 
boarded up, as is Minore’s Market, 
though only the first is out of 
business.  Campaign signs totter on 
ground littered with chicken bones 
and empty single-shots of 70-proof 
Jeremiah Weed. BLUMENTHAL, 
Brains, Not $Buck$ and Brawns, 
lies belly up in mud. 


Coming 
for 
“relaxing 
time” and his second haircut this 
month, Andy Esposito drives into 
town in his black Cadillac.  He 
passes the For Sale signs that 
condemn century-old homes still 
on the block (Come See. . .Will Not 
Last), and turns into the driveway of 
the only one still well kept.  


He drives past the bare 
earth where three bushes have been 
stolen from the front yard, parks in 
back, and enters the salon. 


A purple awning leads 
customers up the stairs and into 
the baby-yellow clapboard home 
of Placido’s Hair Cutting Salon. 
Though floors and walls are now 
covered with silver-swirled gray 
linoleum, the house still has a hearth 
and mantle.  The hearth is covered 
with damp neck rags, the mantle 
with pictures of customers.  There’s 
a photo of a mother holding her 
son for his first haircut, and then 
another of her holding her grandson 
for his.  The salon has occupied 
this living room since 1976, when 
Mastroianni relocated from the 
YMCA. Today, he shares the space 
with Mike Maraucci, who brought 
his barbershop from Chapel Street to 
Mastroianni’s address in 2001. The 
two share expenses, talk baseball, 
and occasionally give one another a 
quick haircut. Mastroianni likes his 
spare hairs cut short and Maraucci 
likes them cut off all together—
shaved right down to a shine. 


Esposito, who has been 
coming to Placido’s Hair Cutting 
Salon for 34 years, is the customer 
who 
called 
Winchell of Whalley. “We talk a lot 
about what’s really happened in this 
country in the last fifty years,” he 
says.  The talk gets hot. Esposito is an 
entrepreneur in protein powder. He 
takes pride in the value he provides 
for his customers, and offense at 
those who make money without 
offering customers anything of 
substance.  His voice quickens with 
anger over “Wall Street fuckers,” 
then quivers with disgust when he 
describes a generation of “public-
service assholes” who are too 
incompetent to straighten out the 
Wall Street types. Mastroianni never 
dismisses complaints yet never fully 
allows for pessimism either.  


 “But I thought he was the 
guy we like?” He stops cutting hair 
and leans his upper body away from 
Esposito’s head, as if to get a better 
view of his thinking. 


“Well, he sold himself as 
one thing, and as soon as he got in, 
he did everything the way he said he 
wouldn’t.”


Mastroianni is working 
on the hair that hadn’t passed his 
survey. “Hmm,” he sympathizes, as 
he combs—clip, clip. “They all do 
that a little bit, don’t they?” 


The old barber “knows 
how to light a fire under my ass,” 
says Esposito. But 850 haircuts 
into their relationship, Mastroianni 
has proven competent at keeping 
Esposito seated in that big green 
Belmont, no matter how hot his seat 
becomes. Esposito leans back into 
the chair, his aviator glasses removed, 
his eyes closed, and Mastroianni’s 
hand at the back of his head.  He 
looks like Julius Caesar, and opens 
his eyes only for emphasis.  “I like 
to have somebody take care of me; 
“Everything 
homemade is 
better,” says 
Mastroianni, 
“except 
haircuts.”

15



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author:  Andrew McCreary**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
--- Page 16 ---

16
The New Journal
I’m usually taking care of everybody 
else.” 

It’s warm enough inside for men 
to pull off Champion sweatshirts, 
roughened work vests, and Italian 
suits.  Some go all the way down to 
undershirts, revealing gold chains 
and Catholic icons suspended in 
chest hair. 

In barbershops, men drop 
their defenses.  
An apron arrests their 
limbs, clippers cut close to their 
throats, and they sit face-to-mirror 
with their barber. He asks questions, 
he touches them with his hands, 
he listens. They don’t have much 
alternative. “Everything homemade 
is better,” says Mastroianni, “except 
haircuts.” 

Men have feared and 
venerated 
barbers 
throughout 
history, as if with scissors and 
shaving cream barbers could take 
apart or put together one person 
or an entire political community. 

In Mastroianni’s birthplace, an 
ancient tyrant allowed only his 
daughters to shave him.  When they 
got older, he mistrusted even their 
hands with a blade and made them 
burn off his five o’clock shadow 
with blistering hazelnuts. Another 
emperor worried that barbers might 
cut away his popular support.  With 
dissent spreading in barbershops, he 
banned all barbers from Rome. 

In Mastroianni’s adopted 
home, barbershops are part of 
democracy, or so it goes. In the 
American barbershop, all men (no 
women here)—some with dry hair 
and some with wet, some seated 
in heavy green chairs and others 
waiting in delicate pink ones—
become equal, and the opinions 
they express carry equal weight. It 
is a place where a community can 
form shared beliefs. Wisconsin 
Governor Warren Knowles told 
Dick Cheney in 1966 that a good 
campaign should visit three places 
in every town: the Republican Party 
Office, the newspaper, and the local 
barbershop.

Mastroianni has cut hair 
for so long that those with whom 
he once talked politics have become 
the talk of town. Joe Lieberman 
’64 LAW ’67 was Mastroianni’s 
customer for 10 years, when he 
had just finished at the Yale Law 
School and was working for a firm 
in New Haven.  Lieberman was, 
as Mastroianni puts it, “destinated 
[sic] to become a politician.” He 
was special because he could talk to 
anybody, “anybody like me.”  
But 
when 
Lieberman 
became attorney general and then 
senator, his blonde hair became 
gray, and he stopped sitting where 
Mastroianni could reach him.  

Today, 
the 
barbershop 
democracy governs less. Political 
campaigns—including 
Dick 
Cheney’s 2000 and 2004 vice-
presidential 
campaigns 
on 
Republican 
ticket—visit 
more 
Internet blogs than barber chairs. 
And while Richard Blumenthal 
was attorney general, Mastroianni’s 
best access to him was through 
a staff lawyer, who reported that 
Blumenthal’s 
senate 
campaign 
became so broke its managers were 
making fliers on personal printers 
(no $Buck$ is right).  

Mastroianni himself has 
gotten slower and quieter in his 
shuffles around the barber chair. 
He knows he has nothing to gain 
by changing a customer’s opinion, 
only business to lose.  He used to be 
insistent and center-right.  Now he’s 
on the left, but you wouldn’t know 
it. Mastroianni works around his 
customers. They sit in the center.

Even a careful eye can’t pick 
out Mastroianni in a picture from 
his 1967 return to styling school. 
“It’s im-pos-si-ble! I was a different 
man.”  He was there learning to cope 
with long hair and left-wing politics, 
both of which put a lot of other 
barbers out of business—the kids 
just weren’t coming in for the JFK 
cut.  A decade later, Mastroianni 
learned never to hang political 
posters in his barbershop.  When he 
promoted mayoral challenger Ben 
DeLieto in 1977, customers who 
supported the incumbent protested, 
and all his customers got more city 
parking tickets for parking near 
opposition sidewalk signs.  “People 
don’t want opinions,” he says. “They 
want haircuts.” 

Shared opinions in the 
barbershop might be impotent 
to change policy, anyway.  Most 
of Mastroianni’s customers have 
moved out of the city and cast their 
ballots in suburbs like Woodbridge 
and Orange. 

“I see the reason,” says 
Mastroianni. “You’re working like 
a dog all your life, you’re trying to 
make something.  All of a sudden 
you’ve got a beautiful place, nice 
school system, and it changes.  The 


--- Page 17 ---

17
February 2011
property goes down, the school 
system goes down.  So what do you 
do?  You run! If you got wings, you 
run.”  

Now it doesn’t matter 
whose side the barber is on, if it 
ever did.  People, or at least politics, 
won’t be changed by Mastroianni’s 
opinions.  But people don’t come 
to him to be convinced what to do; 
they come to be consoled about 
what they no longer can.	

“H
ow ya doin’, John?” 
“Just barely treading water.”
BaZRRRR.  The clipper 
and the din of the double-cassette 
radio excuse Mastroianni while he 
comes up with a question. What 
the customer needs to express isn’t 
always clear, but each will soon say 
what he must.  Mastroianni’s silence 
lets his customers speak, and his 
simple affirmations encourage them 
to say more. 

Mastroianni asks a man 
with sparse brown hair about his 
brother’s pitbulls, and the man soon 
opens up about his brother’s drug 
problems.  Marucci, also a practiced 
listener, asks a near-bald father 
about a son’s bachelor’s party.  After 
telling what the strippers “made me 
do” (“Oh, they made you!”), the 
father talks disapprovingly of his 
future daughter-in-law.  

Sometimes, the barbers 
help the men retreat into their pasts. 
There are the war stories of Robert 
Wallick, who discovered Amelia 
Earhart’s briefcase; Jim Vaneris, 
who flew the Memphis Bell with 
his best friend from Tennessee; or 
Jeffrey Somner, who ran into an 
assistant barber drafted out of the 
Marucci’s old barbershop at Basic 
Training in Camp Grant, Illinois, 
and got his hair cut.  

There are games that 
must be ritualistically replayed. 
One customer reckons with his 
mistakes on the field when Yale 
lost to Harvard, 29-29. A hulking 
man relives tackles he made in high 
school as Mastroianni cuts his bangs, 
and his shadow head-butting nearly 
brings his eyes into contact with very 
real shears.  But Mastroianni doesn’t 
let that happen. He rarely brings his 
customers back to reality, unless they 
want to bring themselves.  In this 
case, disability distorts the former 
football player’s sense of proportion, 
and once Mastroianni has washed 
the man’s head (an uncommon rite 
brought to an end with “Up, Sir!”), 
Mastroianni helps him identify the 
cut wet hair that has fallen onto his 
tongue. “Brown? Then it must be 
yours!” 

Mastroianni may be a born 
listener, or perhaps just a too-busy 
barber. Tufts and curls take so much 
attention that Mastroianni must ask 
more questions than he answers. 
And when he’s combing to measure 
his next cut, the easiest question to 
ask is one that explores something 
further what his customer has said. 
Like a good therapist or a good 
parent, 
Mastroianni 
listens—he 
knows to focus with full attention 
(sometimes there’s not much hair 
there to busy him), acknowledge 
feelings with a single word (“No!?”), 
give feelings a name (preferably an 
Italian one: “So you’re saying he’s 
a socialista?”), and grant wishes 
in a fantasy.  After his haircut, the 
disabled former high school football 
player barrels into Mastroianni with 
excessive force. “You are strong 
today, Brucey!”  For the 77-year-old 
man, it may not feel like a fantasy. 
But for Bruce, one more tackle, 
twice each month, may make a 
difference.

W
hen Mastroianni’s customers 
get 
around 
to 
talking 
politics, they do so as a release 
from other frustrations.  They talk 
about things no one can change, it 
seems, as a way to forget the difficult 
things that they must change 
themselves.  The talk isn’t a sign of 
collective empowerment anymore, 
but of an individual powerlessness 
that everyone shares. Mastroianni’s 
customers don’t want political 
conversation, but rather a chair from 
which to sound a long complaint.

A young man comes in 
with gumboots, jeans that could 
catch wind, and a Sean Jean jacket 
that must have been kitten soft 
before it went through the wash.  He 
has dark hair, and lots of it.

“I want it real short, short 
short short! You know, Caesar-like.”

“I see,” Mastroianni flicks 
on the clippers. “You want to be 
free, not a slave to your hair, right?”

Mastroianni lets the soft-
faced man move from “Platonic, 
you know, not sexual,” to “child 
support,” to the failing grades his 
teenage son is getting in school.  He 
tires of talking until Mastroianni 
awakens him with a change of 
subject. 

“So the economy’s got to 
change, huh?”  

His cheeks alight with 
energy, but he soon sinks back 
into cold anxiety.  The middle 
class just can’t compete with the 
money backing these politicians. 
Mastroianni stops. The man’s head 
protrudes like the point of an 
iceberg from the black and ochre sea 
of his apron, a sea-foam napkin at 
his neck.  Mastroianni seems unable 
to size up what’s beneath. 

	
“Well, you know, we have 
to talk about it. We just can’t think 
about it.”
TNJ
Andrew McCreary is a 
junior in Silliman College.


**Title: DREAMING ON**
**Author: Liane Membis**
**Page number(s): 18**

--- Page 18 ---

18
    FEATURE
U
nlike for many of her classmates, 
post-graduate mornings for 
Teresa Serrano ’10 don’t consist of 
6 a.m. showers, daily caffeine rushes 
courtesy of Starbucks, or crowded 
subway rides to Wall Street. Nor 
can she be found enthusiastically 
singing the alphabet song to a group 
of kindergarteners in New Orleans 
as a Teach for America volunteer. 

Instead, the 22-year-old 
Latina spends most of her days 
at home in Texas, unemployed, 
unable to drive, and underachieving 
because of the place she was born. 
“My status has limited 
my life in unimaginable ways,” 
said Serrano, whose name has been 
changed to protect her. Like the 
other 9.3 million undocumented 
immigrants living in the United 
States, Serrano lacks the rights of 
a U.S. citizen. She cannot get a 
driver’s license and is unauthorized 
to work because, though she grew 
up here, she does not reside in the 
United States legally. For now, she 
remains trapped in limbo, educated 
and unemployed.  

Home Sweet Home

I
n the late 1970s, Serrano’s 
parents traveled from Honduras 
to the United States in search of 
economic opportunities and social 
advancement. Civil unrest and 
political instability plagued their 
home country, and her parents 
sought refuge away from an ongoing 
civil war. 

Her parents’ attempts to 
bear children led them back home. 
Her mother experienced several 
miscarriages and when she became 
pregnant with Teresa, she was 
diagnosed with a congenital heart 
disease that qualified her pregnancy 
as high risk. 

“In the United States, my 
parents were alone and on their 
own, whereas in Honduras they had 
the support of their family and loved 
ones,” Serrano said. “They were more 
familiar with the language, customs, 
and medical procedures there than 
in the United States, and this made 
the birthing process easier.”

At 13 months, when her 
mother was healthy again, Serrano 
returned with her parents to the 
United States on a tourist visa. Even 
after this visa expired, she continued 
to live in Texas with her parents. 
Shortly after their return to the 
United States, Serrano’s parents gave 
birth to her brother, who is now 
18 years old and attends Columbia 
University. Serrano’s father finally 
secured a green card in 2008, but 
for the majority of her life, he could 
have been deported at any moment.

 Growing Up American

S
errano’s parents raised her 
on working-class wages. Her 
mother, 52, works as a nanny, and 
her father, 54, is a maintenance 
worker. For several years the family 
lived together in a small two-
bedroom apartment. After years 
of saving, her parents were able to 
purchase a new home. They were 
“extremely resourceful,” Serrano 
said. 

Despite 
economic 
hardships, Serrano grew up in a 
loving household and retained strong 
bonds to her Hispanic heritage. She 



**Title: The Educational Escape**
**Author:  Liane Membis**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
recalls a fondness for her mother’s 
empanadas and her father’s carne 
asada at family gatherings. Her 
mother, a devout Catholic, took her 
to mass every weekend and instilled 
in her the importance of faith.  She 
grew 
up 
with 
American culture as well. “I learned 
English from a purple dinosaur and 
my favorite food was chocolate chip 
cookies,” Serrano recalled. “I had 
a pretty happy, normal American 
childhood.”  Like other girls, she 
flirted in high school and had two-
week long crushes. She was an 
active dancer and held records in 
cross-country track. 
 “Although I grew up in 
an inner-city household and my 
parents juggled several low-wage 
jobs to provide for my brother and 
me, they were always there for us, 
and they made our education a 
priority,” Serrano said. 
Her 
high 
school 
in 
Dallas had a high drop-out rate, 
but Serrano beat the odds.  She 
excelled academically, ranking third 
in a graduating class of 250 and 
receiving the National Hispanic 
Scholar Award. Like the rest of her 
close friends, Teresa dreamed of 
attending college, and she applied 
to schools in Texas and on the 
East Coast. By her final year of 
high school, however, she realized 
she faced an obstacle her fellow 
classmates didn’t. 
“There was never a single 
light-bulb 
moment,” 
Serrano 
recalled about finding out she was 
undocumented. Growing up, she 
had a vague sense that her parents 
were in the process of legalizing their 
status, but until middle school, she 
believed she was born in the United 
States. 


In 
school, 
the 
fragments of Serrano’s complicated 
and broken immigration story 
began to come together. When she 
wanted to apply to get a driving 
license, her mother hastily changed 
the subject and wouldn’t let her. 
When she started applying to 
colleges and wanted to get a job to 
save for tuition, her parents said no. 
“That’s when it sort of 
dawned on me that I wasn’t a U.S. 
citizen,” Serrano said. “That’s when I 
began to realize the extent to which 
my life would be restricted and 
shaped by my status.” 

Yale University was among 
the list of colleges to which 
Serrano applied, identifying herself 
as an international student. She was 
admitted and offered full financial 
assistance even though she could not 
supply all the required documents 
to qualify her as a true international 
student. She is one of a small group 
of undocumented students admitted 
to Yale. 
“We admit students for 
their academic and personal promise 
without regard to ability to pay,” 
explains Jessie Hill, senior assistant 
director of Yale undergraduate 
admissions. “We admit a handful 
of undocumented students every 
year, and a student’s legal status 
does not factor into the admissions 
or 
financial 
aid 
decisions.” 

Undocumented students are able to 
secure financial aid based purely on 
their need; students whose parents 
earn below $60,000 a year can 
receive generous aid packages. 
This aid and additional 
private scholarships meant Serrano 
could pay the annual $50,000 for 
Yale tuition, but no amount of 
money could afford her the same 
Yale experience as many of her peers.
Yale 
provides 
ample 
opportunities 
for 
international 
travel, 
offering 
fellowships 
research in far-flung places, and 
summer 
programs 
around 
globe. Serrano would have loved to 
study abroad—but because she was 
undocumented, she didn’t have a 
passport. Carmen Alvarez, another 
undocumented Yalie from Peru, 
whose name has also been changed, 
agreed that travel was enticing but 
unattainable.  
 “The one thing that 
makes me so angry is when people 
pass up their opportunities to study 
abroad,” Alvarez said. “People don’t 
understand how much traveling is a 
privilege in this country until they 
are restricted from traveling home 
because of their status.” 

Serrano, who was unable 
to travel home to see her family 
in Texas during holiday breaks, 
agreed. 
“We 
religiously 
avoid 
airports and anything resembling a 
terminal because of the risk of being 
deported or getting caught up in an 
Immigration and Customs raid,” 
she said.  “The immobility that 
accompanies being undocumented 
can feel, at times, paralyzing.”


Instead, she spent all 
of her vacations and breaks in 
Connecticut, thousands of miles 
away from her loved ones. Her 
parents couldn’t visit her either: they 
faced the same difficulties traveling 
as undocumented persons and 
couldn’t afford to drive the 1,000 
miles from Texas to Connecticut. 
Serrano passed her summers in 
cheap sublet apartments, funded by 
odd jobs like babysitting and Yale 
psychology studies. 


During the school year, she 
studied anthropology and history. 
Outside of her academic career, 
she was a committed community 
activist for local nonprofits that 
lobbied for immigration and labor 
rights.
It was in those moments—
when she was working to protect 
locals and fight for a national 
cause—that Teresa fully appreciated 
being a Yale student.  
“Despite 
my 
looming 
status, my time at Yale was 
remarkable,” Serrano said. “I found 
numerous sources of support at 
Yale and, although challenging, 
my experience was full of positive 
growth.”


According to friends and 
past roommates, Teresa Serrano was 
not the type of person to wear her 
worry on her face. “She was always 
on top of things and was one of 
the happiest people that I have met 
during my time at Yale,” Elizabeth 
Gonzalez ’11 said. Gonzalez met 
Serrano before her freshman year at 
Cultural Connections, a University 
organized pre-orientation program. 
Additionally, Gonzalez has been 
a strong proponent and leader on 
campus for immigration rights 
through her work with La Mecha, 
a Chicano social justice student 
group.  She did not discover that 
Serrano was undocumented until 
the end of Serrano’s time at Yale. 
“People were attracted to her bubbly 
and cheerful spirit. You could have 
sat next to her and never realized all 
the issues she was going through.” 

Once 
Elizabeth 
knew, 
however, she was aware that the 
issues weighed heavily on her friend. 
Serrano worried relentlessly about 
her future during her senior year, 
Gonzalez recalled. 

The 
rich 
tradition 
of 
faith and prayer instilled by her 
mother sustained Serrano at first. 
“My mother’s answer to most of 
my questions in life was ‘Si Dios 
Quiere’—‘If God wants.’ For a 
long time, that was enough for 
me,” she said. But as she became 
increasingly disillusioned with her 
reality, Serrano found it difficult to 
maintain her faith. Confiding in 
friends about her status, however 
difficult, became a source of comfort 
instead. 

“One 
major 
challenges 
immigrants 
is 
overcoming the culture of silence 
that dominates and colors the lives 
and narratives of so many non 
citizens,” Serrano explains.  “So 
many of us are afraid to speak out for 
our basic rights. My parents simply 
avoided the subject for years, and I, 
in turn, inherited that same silence.” 

Due to the danger of deportation, 
few students will discuss their 
undocumented status with their 
peers. As a result, it is hard for Yale 
students to identify each other as 
undocumented. Serrano felt alone, 
though she knew she was not. 

By 
commencement 
May, Serrano had become 
increasingly 
despondent. 
inability to travel for job interviews 
meant many job applications sat 
incomplete on her desktop. With 
growing impatience, her mother 
insisted her best post-graduate job 
option was to become a nanny. 
Graduation is usually a 
joyous occasion, but for Serrano, it 
was a “heart-wrenching experience.” 
“What I felt on graduation 
day 
was 
different—something 
more severe,” she said. “I had spent 
the past four years at this elite 
institution, compartmentalizing a 
painful truth, and I knew that when 
I graduated I would be confronted 
with my harsh reality yet again.”

She left New Haven and 
returned to her home in Texas. Now 
her daily routine consists of nine-to-
five job shifts at fast food restaurants 
and laundromats, the advantages 
of her Yale degree negated by her 
undocumented status.

What comes next? 
“I 
try not to think about the 
future. I just live life day 
by day,” Serrano said, adding, “To 
live as an undocumented person 
in the U.S. is to grapple with daily 
exploitation, injustice, and broken 
promises.”


One such promise was 
the DREAM Act. The act proposed 
to grant conditional legal status 
to undocumented young people 
who have moved to the United 
States before age 16, lived here for 
more than five years, graduated 
completed 
three 
years of college or military service, 
and committed no felonies or no 
more than three misdemeanors. 
The acronym “DREAM” stands 
Development, 
Relief, 
and 
Education for Alien Minors. 

Yale University President 
Richard Levin publicly recognized 
and endorsed the DREAM Act 
on September 20, 2010. “In my 
view anyone who has the ability 
and determination to complete 
college is the kind of person we 
should welcome to stay in our 
great country,” Levin said at the 
time. “Like many others, I would 
prefer that the DREAM Act be 
considered as part of comprehensive 
immigration 
legislation.” 

the months after his statement, 
lawmakers and their constituents 
remained hotly divided on the issue. 
In Texas, where 37 percent of the 
population is of Hispanic origin, 
hunger strikes unfolded in San 
Antonio in support of the DREAM 
Act.


These and other protests 
failed to sway lawmakers, including 
Senators 
Kay 
Bailey 
(R-TX) 
Hutchinson and John Cornyn 
(R-TX). On December 8, the bill 
passed in the House, but a vote in 
the Senate was delayed. On Dec. 
18, the DREAM Act failed to pass 
again, after the Senate’s motion to 
prevent a filibuster of the bill fell 
short by five votes. 

After November’s election, 
Congress is more conservative on 
the issue of immigration than it has 
been in years past, but some state 
politicians are still holding out hope 
for reform. On January 25, New 
Haven’s 
aldermen 
unanimously 
recommended that the Connecticut 
state legislature pass a law making 
undocumented students eligible to 
pay in-state tuition at state colleges, 
a measure New Haven Mayor John 
DeStefano, Jr. also supports. New 
York, Illinois, California, Kansas, 
Nebraska, Texas, Utah, Washington, 
Wisconsin and New Mexico all have 
passed versions of this law, often 
called a “state DREAM Act.” 

Serrano’s 
post-graduate 
goal is neither to amass a fortune 
nor to start a family. It is simply 
to stay in the country in which she 
grew up. Her parents have been in 
legal proceedings to adjust their 
status for nearly 30 years.While her 
father recently secured legal status, 
her mother’s efforts have gone 
unrewarded. She cannot depend 
on her younger brother either; even 
when he turns 21, the necessary age 
to petition for a spouse or sibling, 
the process for Serrano would be 
backlogged for another 15 years. 

“Somewhere along the way 
in our historical trajectory of quotas 
and immigration rights, the system 
ran out of gas and broke down on 
the highway,” Karen Weinstock, an 
Atlanta-based immigration lawyer, 
said. “Even if you enter this country 
legally and file paperwork the ‘right 
way,’ it can take nearly 15-some-
odd years to be naturalized. That’s 
15 years regressing your life rather 
than progressing it.” Currently, 
the only way that undocumented 
immigrants can become U.S. citizens 
is through petitions by family 
members, company sponsorship, 
or re-adjustment of status through 
marriage. 

In his State of the Union 
address on January 25, President 
Barack 
Obama 
addressed 
problems with the nation’s current 
system for naturalizing foreign 
students educated in the United 
States. He had previously called 
the Senate’s failure to vote on 
the DREAM Act his “greatest 
disappointment.”

DREAM 
Act 
would 
have 
changed 
life drastically. She describes it 
as “the only hope for myself and 
for the hundreds of thousands of 
dreamers in the US, who have been 
deprived of basic human rights,” 
Serrano said.  ‘It’s physically and 
emotionally draining to discover 
the deep limitations that come with 
being undocumented and the few 
pathways and decades it can take to 
legalization. The system is broken, 
and we need smart, humane, 
comprehensive immigration reform 
immediately.”

Unlike 
other 
undocumented immigrants, Teresa’s 
brother’s citizenship and father’s 
permanent residency increase the 
chance she’ll be able to legalize her 
status. But, like many others, she 
remains in a compromising position, 
her name and status leaving her in 
danger of exile.

“The thought of detention 
and forced removal still sends 
shivers down my spine,” Serrano 
said. “It’s the ultimate nightmare—
to be detained without justice, to 
be permanently separated from 
your family and loved ones, to be 
banished to a country you have 
literally no memory of.” 

She is left with her hope, 
her perseverance, and her education. 
TNJ
Liane Membis is a junior 
in Ezra Stiles College.



**Title: Oceans Away**
**Author: Helen Gao**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The number of Chinese children adopted by American families is 
increasing every year, as is the age of the children adopted. Helen Gao 
meets two such children to learn about their experiences. 


Zeng Tuo arrived at  Donnasue 
Graesser’s New Haven home 
in January 2010, the year he 
turned nine. Just shy of four-and-a-
half feet, he spins around the house 
like a Frisbee, one moment fighting 
over a dreidel with his brother and 
the next jerking his mother’s apron, 
asking for hot chocolate. Occasionally, his dark, animated eyes pause 
on me in a long, curious stare. 

Penelope (whose name 
has been changed by her mother’s 
request) joined Kathleen Heller’s 
family in February 2010 at the age 
of thirteen and a half. Sitting by 
the living room table, she attempts 
to answer her mother’s questions 
with English phrases, but often re-
treats to a nod or shake of the head, 
an embarrassed smile adorning her 
dimpled face. She converses with me 
in Mandarin in a low, calm voice, as 
if the story she is telling belongs to 
someone else.

Zeng Tuo and Penelope are 
Chinese orphans adopted by Ameri-
can parents. Neither of them knew 
the English word “parents” before 
their adoptions. They have flown 
across the Pacific Ocean, mixed 
in with crowds of businessmen in 
search of profits and students in 
search of education, to find families. 

Their arrivals in the United 
States mark a new trend in Ameri-
can adoptions from China. Twenty 
years ago, when China first opened 
for international adoption, almost 
all the adoptees were infant girls 
in swaddling clothes, leaving their 
homeland before they even knew 
how to pronounce its name. After 
ten years, the number of children 
adopted from China to the United 
States per year reached 8,000, with 
a long line of parents on the wait-
ing list. Today, according to the 
Chinese government, the demand 
has outstripped the number of Chi-
nese infants available for adoption, 
and American families are encour-
aged to adopt instead from a pool 
of older children, many of whom 
have special needs. Since 2005, 
these children have constituted the 
main body of adoptees from China, 
a trend likely to continue as the 
number of domestic adoptions rises 
and the rate of infants abandoned at 
birth decreases. The older newcom-
ers, usually moving to the United 
States between ages 7 and 14—the 
upper age limit set by the Chinese 
law for international adoption—
face a new set of challenges. Unlike 
the children adopted at birth who 
arrive in America with blank slates, 
older adoptees struggle to reconcile 
their ties to China with their new 
lives as Americans. 

Kneeling on a chair next 
to the dinner table, Zeng Tuo wolfs 
down rice with scrambled eggs and 
tomatoes, one of his favorite home-
made Chinese dishes. His plump 
cheeks peek out from behind the 
large porcelain bowl he holds up to 
his face. Just back from a karate les-
son, he is still in his white practice 
robes, tightened around his skinny 
torso with a red belt.

Zeng Tuo, referred to as Z.T. in the 
house, may have been born deaf, 
but was not officially diagnosed 
until age 2 or 3. From then on, he 
was deemed “unadoptable.” He has 
no birth certificate. The earliest 
documentation of his existence is a 
“baby found” advertisement posted 
on a local newspaper. “Zeng Tuo,” 
the one-line ad says, using the name 
given by the orphanage where he 
temporarily lived: “male infant, dark 
skin and average weight, found at 
Changsha West Bus Station.” 

Looking at a photo of 
the advertisement Graesser puts in 
front of me, I shudder at the word 
“Changsha.” A charming city in 
southern China and my father’s 
hometown, I have spent many Chi-
nese New Year’s Eves there, facing 
a table of steaming home-cooked 
dishes and surrounded by smiling 
faces of aunts, uncles, and grand-
parents.

The ad went unanswered, 
and Z.T. became a long-term resi-
dent of the orphanage. At age 4 or 
5, he was sent to an asylum called 
“Hope House” built by a Christian 
missionary group, where he lived 
together with other children with 
special needs. There, he received 
just limited care, Graesser says, be-
cause “he was a little bit too high-
functioning” compared to some of 
his immobile peers. The missionar-
ies sent him to school, but eventu-
ally he dropped out because of his 
hearing impairment. At 6, he met 
a family from New Jersey that con-
sidered adopting him. He spent two 
days with the family, but was sent 
back to the orphanage by himself.  

“He wouldn’t calm down. 
He was so hyperactive, and…they 
thought his table manners were bad. 
He put his face down to his dish 
when he ate!” Graesser says. She 
explains that the family from New 
Jersey, after observing his behavior, 
felt he was too much to handle. 

“I’m sort of glad they 
didn’t adopt him then,” Graesser 
says, her voice lifting. “Because he is 
a lot to handle. And, plus, he is now 
my son!”

Once again homeless, Z.T. 
returned to his familiar bed in the 
orphanage, reading all day and go-
ing to sleep immediately after din-
ner. It was not long, however, until 
he met a British foster family living 
in Changsha that took him to their 
house first for weekends and then 
for longer periods of time. The fam-
ily assembled a photo album of the 
year they spent together. One pic-
ture features Z.T. spinning around 
on a carousel, grinning widely. An-
other shows him amid a group of 
boys his age, seated at a ceramics 
wheel, his hands and face covered 
in mud. But the foster family could 
not provide a permanent home for 
Z.T. They planned to return to Brit-
ain in only a few years. 

Since Z.T. arrived at the Graess-
ers’ house, he has embraced body 
language to express his feelings. He 
devours his dinners with a satisfied 
grunt. When he wants a grape-fla-
vored ice bar from the freezer, he 
yanks a corner of his mother’s apron 
and gestures in sign language. His 
thin arms draw animated lines and 
curves across his chest, in front of 
his face and above his head. Deter-
mined to make himself understood, 
he furrows his eyebrows into a knot. 
Z.T. seems to understand he is now 
part of a family from which he will 
never be parted. His father, Carl, 
drives him from school to karate 
classes, and his brother, Simon—the 
family’s biological son—has taught 
him to play computer games. Don-
nasue Graesser has learned both 
Chinese and American sign languag-
es, so that she can use the former to 
teach Z.T. the latter. Language, she 
believes, is key to Z.T.’s integration 
into the new society, as well as his 
tie to his past one.  In addition to 
learning the signs, he can pronounce 
some words verbally, albeit with dif-
ficulty. 

“Z.T., come here!” Graess-
er gestures at him. “Tell her your 
name.”

The boy leans against the 
dinner table near me, his fingers 
rolling a corner of his shirt. “Zet, 
Tet!”

“No, no, your Chinese 
name,” Graesser shakes her head 
with an exaggerated motion and 
puts up a finger. 

The boy’s thin lips curl 
into a smile, half shy and half sly, 
then he suddenly turns away to dash 
at his brother.  

“I ask him all the time 
when he signs something: ‘How 
do you sign it in Chinese?’ I want 
him to retain his native language,” 
Graesser says. 

She also takes him fre-
quently to Chinese culture camps, 
encourages him to socialize with 
other Chinese adoptees, and makes 
a point to cook Chinese vegetable 
dishes at home every night. 

After dinner, Carl makes 
green tea for the family. Z.T. signs 
that he prefers hot chocolate in-
stead, with “lots and lots of marsh-
mallows.” 

As the family sits down 
around the dinner table, sipping 
their steaming drinks, I ask what 
Graesser hopes to achieve with her 
efforts. 

Carl, who has remained 
quiet for the entire evening, sudden-
ly starts to speak. He explains that 
they don’t want Z.T. to lose sight of 
his heritage. “For you and me, we go 
back to New Jersey, I drive around 
and could remember it all. For him, 
he won’t have that opportunity.  We 
are not doing it for us; we are doing 
it for him.”

Graesser motions to Z.T. 
“Z.T., look at mom, look at me for 
a second.” Her smiling face turns 
stern. “When you grow older, will 
you want to take a plane to go back 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author:  Unknown**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
--- Page 25 ---

25
February 2011
to China and see it?” Her lips move 
slowly and deliberately. Her right 
hand index finger draws a line from 
left to right under her collarbone 
and down her torso for “China,” 
and the middle finger joins in to 
gently touch the corner of her right 
eye for “see.” 

“No,” he mumbles.

“Why not?” 
A series of short sticky syllables. 

“What?”

“I want to be here.” Loud-
er and more clipped this time—he’s 
speaking. 

Driving me to the train 
station, Graesser confesses that de-
spite all her efforts, Z.T. seems un-
interested in his past.  

“I am still in frequent cor-
respondence with his British foster 
mom. I’ve asked him if he wants to 
talk to her. So far he said, ‘No, she’s 
old and she’s probably dead,’” she 
laughs. “She’s thirties maybe? She’s 
not old! I just don’t think he’s ready 
for it yet. Maybe he will be someday, 
but right now he’s not.”

A short silence ensues. “I 
don’t know if inside…Sometimes, I 
just think maybe I oversimplify him. 
I think, ‘Oh, he’s happy here, and 
he just wants that to be done,’ but 
then sometimes I wonder if he’s re-
ally trying to spare my feelings. He 
might think, ‘My new mom prob-
ably wouldn’t like it if I talk to my 
old mom.’” Her loud, clear voice 
now shakes with uncertainty. 

“I don’t know. I can’t place 
emotions on him. He’s hard to 
read.”

Penelope is the newest addition 
to the Nicoloso-Heller family, 
which includes five adopted girls, 
eight rescued bunnies, and a rescued 
fish. Kathleen Heller is their mother, 
and a friend of Grasser’s. Two of the 
girls, who are twins, were adopted at 
birth, while the other three joined 
the family between the ages of 11 
and 13.

In her blog entitled “Five
Yale students and their “siblings” in CASPY make arts and crafts together in 
William L. Harkness Hall.


--- Page 26 ---

26
The New Journal
Blossoms from China,” Heller re-
cords the hustle and bustle in her 
household. 

One day Heller blogged 
about finding Penelope sobbing in-
cessantly under a bed cover. Guess-
ing that she had upset the young girl 
when she reprimanded her for stay-
ing on the computer, Heller tried to 
soothe her with apologies and en-
couraged her to communicate. 

“It’s important to talk 
about what’s making you sad. Keep-
ing it in doesn’t make it go away…
We’ve only known you for several 
months and sharing is a way for us 
to know more about you so we can 
be more supportive,” she recalls tell-
ing her daughter.

Her efforts only elicited 
more tears, and Penelope responded 
with a stubborn “Nothing.” In the 
end, Heller realized that was what 
she had to settle for.

“Well, guess what?” she 
wrote on her blog. “All that, ‘I’m 
making a breakthrough, I’m really 
reaching her, and whoa I’m really 
saying the right things...’ was bo-
gus.  It WAS nothing.  She was just 
very tired and it turns out she be-
comes overly sensitive when she is 
tired.  Hmmmmmmmm, guess the 
only thing I learned from this is—
she becomes sensitive when she’s 
tired.” 

Before I visit Heller’s fami-
ly, I expected a reserved, perhaps sul-
len face from Penelope. I scrutinize 
my prepared questions on the train 
to their house, picking each word 
with painstaking caution.

James Nicoloso, Heller’s 
husband, picks me up at the Red-
ding, Connecticut, train station. As 
the car winds through woods hills 
and fields, Nicoloso tells me that he 
works as an independent filmmaker. 
He is currenly making a film about 
Mark Twain, who spent his last years 
in Redding. The task of taking care 
of the girls is mostly his wife’s. 
CASPY participants share snacks while enjoying the 
sun and making chalk drawings and messages.


--- Page 27 ---

27

The 
Nicoloso-Heller 
house, situated amid December’s 
bare woods in Redding, Connecti-
cut, glows a warm yellow light at 
its windows. Penelope waits for 
me at the living room table, where 
she remains for the entirety of my 
half-day visit. Her face, tanned and 
heart-shaped in blog photos, has 
been bleached by life indoors and 
fleshed out by a year of American 
diet.

Her two youngest sisters, 
Juliette and Leigha, ten-year-old 
twins who were adopted at birth, 
have black, silky hair that falls to 
their waists. After running circles 
around the living room table, they 
sprint toward the trampoline in 
their backyard, their giggles echo-
ing from afar. Marielle, the oldest 
daughter at 16, was adopted four 
years ago. She rambles in a mix of 
Chinese and English while showing 
me her drawings of Japanese manga 
characters. Aleena, age 12, joined 
the family at the same time as Pe-
nelope in February 2010. Hard of 
hearing, she attends a deaf school, 
where she became close friends with 
the Graessers’ son, Z.T. 

Penelope completed ninth 
grade in China. When she arrived 
at Heller and Nicoloso’s home, she 
was placed two years back in eighth 
grade at the nearby John Read 
Middle School. She was expected 
to catch up within half a year and 
transit smoothly into high school. 
Instead, Penelope returned from 
school crying every day. Her teach-
ers’ speeches in English were all gib-
berish to her. 

Worried, Heller made re-
peated requests to the school’s ad-
ministration, asking for a special 
language teacher for her daughter, 
but received no answer.  

“You know what the reac-
tion was? ‘Oh, she hangs out with 
her friends. She will learn English.’ 
She is in a new country. She doesn’t 
have any friends. She is very shy. ‘Oh 
she will learn. We will assign some-
body to hang out with her.’ No. 
That’s not how you teach a child.”

In May, Heller filed a com-
plaint against the school in the dis-
trict government. A few days after 
my visit, she announced the result 
on her blog: “We have won! I am 
so excited…She will get support in 
all of her classes and have a separate 
time for tutoring.”

When she’s not at school, 
Penelope spends most of her time at 
home, chatting online with friends 
from China. Many of them have 
also been adopted by families on the 
East Coast.  

Having lived with other 
children in a “welfare institute” in 
China for five years, Penelope ex-
perienced a teenager’s life before 
she came to America. She and her 
friends chased each other on their 
way to school, collaborated on 
homework after class, and huddled 
in the institute’s heatless common 
room to watch television soap opera 
on weekend afternoons. Before that, 
she had even had a family. 
“Could you help me with some-
thing?”  Heller asks me after 
lunch, taking a pile of large yellow 
envelopes stuffed with paper docu-
ments off a shelf: Penelope’s records 
from the years she lived with her 
grandmother in the countryside, 
before she entered the welfare insti-
tute. “If we can somehow locate the 
town where she lived, we can find 
her grandmother!”  Heller says, her 
eyes sparkling.

As I sift through the docu-
ments, Penelope’s past gradually 
emerges. Her father died in a coal 
mining accident more than ten years 
ago and her mother succumbed to 
an “unspecified illness.” Brought up 
by her grandmother, she lived in 
the countryside of central China’s 
Henan province until she turned 
9, when her grandmother grew too 
weak to support her. One day, a car 
came to take her to a welfare insti-
tute in Luoyang, the capital of the 
province. By now she has forgotten 
the name of the town she lived in 
and the elementary school she at-
tended, and she has not seen her 
grandmother since leaving Luoyang. 

“Do you want to see her 
again if we find her?” I ask.

She stares at the table and 
nods slowly.

On a guardianship trans-
fer approval form, the seal of the 
local public security bureau states 
“Wangfanhuizu County.” Wang-
fanhuizu could be a translation of 
any number of Chinese names. I do 
several Google searches on the Hell-
ers’ computer while Kathleen and 
Penelope stand behind me, eager 
to see what I find. Christmas music 
blares from the television in the liv-
ing room.

“Aha!” On the sixth or the 
seventh try, Google yields several 
hundreds of results, generously tum-
bling down the page, and the next, 
“For you and me, we go 
back to New Jersey, I 
drive around and could 
remember it all,” says 
Carl Graesser. “For 
him, he won’t have that 
opportunity.  We are not 
doing it for us; we are 
doing it for him.”



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
--- Page 28 ---

28
The New Journal

and the next. Several of them mention an elementary school—Wang-
fanhuizu Wangdong Elementary 
School. “I think that’s it!” I turn to 
Penelope.

She is already in her moth-
er’s hug, her face hidden behind 
Heller’s thick, blonde hair. “This is 
big. This is big,” I hear the mother 
murmuring.

I copy down the name of 
the school and its street address, put 
it in my pocket, and tiptoe to the 
closet to grab my coat. 

In the days that follow, I 
check  Heller’s blog several times a 
day, without knowing what to ex-
pect. An outcry of joy? A mother-
daughter heart-to-heart? Or a travel 
itinerary to China?  Instead, a week 
later, an email pops up in my inbox. 
It is from Penelope. 

“Dear Yuxin,” she writes, 
“thanks for visiting us. There is 
something I hope to tell you. When 
you return to China, could you 
please not go look for my grand-
mother?”

Confused, I keep reading. 
She confesses that she had seen her 
grandmother, in truth, not long be-
fore she left for the United States. 
At the suggestion of the caretakers 
at the welfare institute, she had con-
cealed this fact so that she would 
have a greater chance of getting ad-
opted. 

“When my grandmother 
heard that I was leaving for Amer-
ica, she cried for a long time and 
held my hands really tight. She told 
me to be nice to people I meet in 
America.

“For now, I don’t hope to 
disturb her. If I bring my family to 
the village to visit her, she would 
feel she had lost me forever—I am 
at home now, but she is all by her-
self. All I am hoping now is to grow 
up, until I can go back to China by 
myself. It’s my dream and my every-
day wish.

“My mom thinks scars can 
only heal if you expose them…I 
would rather endure the pain, and 
not let it heal. I am thankful of 
everything my mom has done for 
me…but only this, I prefer not to let 
her know. Can you help me, Yuxin?”

“Dear Penelope,” I type, “I 
am so sorry for not having noticed 
your feelings during my visit that 
day…”

I stop, not knowing what 
to type next.
F
or both Z.T. and Penelope, per-
haps there is a greater distance 
that separates them from their 
homeland than the 12,300-mile-
wide Pacific Ocean, a distance that, 
despite kind attempts, no language 
or cultural activities could bridge for 
them.

Graesser shares this view. 
“I was thinking a lot after your visit 
about why I want Z.T. to maintain 
some of his cultural identity,” she 
TNJ
Helen Gao is a senior in 
Davenport College.
writes to me in an email days af-
ter my visit. “The rest of us have a 
family ‘history.’ We know our par-
ents, grandparents, great-grandpar-
ents. We know their stories, occu-
pations, travels—and we take pride 
in our connection to our ances-
tors. For kids like Z.T., they have no 
family history. Our adoptive family 
can never replace that missing piece 
of his history. So it seems the clos-
est thing we can do for him is to at 
least maintain some connection to 
his birth country, although it never 
seems quite adequate.” 

What kind of connection 
is it, I wonder?

Perhaps the boy in the ka-
rate robe and the girl crying under 
the blanket are still figuring that 
out.


--- Page 29 ---

29
February 2011
          FEATURE
Bishop’s Orchards has operated in Guilford, 
Connecticut for 139 years. As the sixth generation of 
Bishops comes of age, the season is turning once more.
By Jacque Feldman
“It is remarkable how closely the history of the apple tree is connected with that of man.” 
—Henry David Thoreau
Apples
Apples to

**Title: Apples**
**Author: Jacque Feldman**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

Sticky-fingered 
kids 
waiting in line at Bishop’s 
Orchards tugged at their 
parents’ pants, demanding more 
caramel apples. Outside, more 
children roamed, trying to pick 
up pumpkins too heavy for them 
to lift. It was a sunny afternoon, 
the first Saturday in October, and 
crowds had gathered to celebrate 
the apple harvest at the farm and 
market in Guilford, Connecticut. 
Two little girls sang to the tune of 
Frère Jacques, as their father pushed 
them in a wheelbarrow: “We are 
pumpkins, we are pumpkins, eat us 
quick! Eat us quick!” Other families 
stood at long tables, stuffing old 
clothes with straw and decorating 
them with bits of yarn to make 
scarecrows. An older woman walked 
by, singing softly: “You are the apple 
of my eye.”

Arriving 
at 
Bishop’s 
that October afternoon, I felt at 
home. A Connecticut native, I 
spent my childhood among the 
trees of Applegate of Avon, an 
orchard owned and operated by 
my onetime babysitter, Nancy 
Hanelius, and her husband, Ray 
in Avon, Connecticut. I can still 
remember the dark, cool, cavernous 
room where apples were stored. The 
Hanelius family has since sold their 
farm, and uniform, colonial-style 
houses now stand where apples once 
grew. Their story is not unusual. 
Since 2000, Connecticut’s annual 
apple production has dropped by 2 
million pounds. Bishop’s Orchards, 
however, has managed to continue 
operating.

“It’s a neat place,” said Jim 
Plunkett, a Guilford native who 
attended the town’s high school 
with Bishop’s current CEO, Keith 
Bishop. “They have been around 
forever. They are a Guilford fixture.”

The Bishops have owned 
and operated Bishop’s Orchards for 
six generations, since 1871. They 
steered the farm through the Great 
Depression and the construction of 
Interstate 95 in the 1950s through 
a swath of what had been Bishop 
land. The small children making 
scarecrows that day owed their fun 
to a long tradition that now rests 
on the shoulders of Keith’s four 


--- Page 30 ---

30
Left to right: Sarah Bishop-Dellaventura with a row 
of Ida Red apple trees; Young girls with freshly picked 
pumpkins; Making scarecrows; Apples at the orchard.
children, the youngest members of 
the Bishop family: Ryan, Carrie, 
Allison, and Sarah, his oldest. 
Sixth Generation
S
arah 
Bishop-Dellaventura 
loves apples. For her October 
wedding—“I had to get married 
during prime-time foliage”—her 
centerpieces 
were 
apples. 
Her 
party favors were two hundred jars 
of applesauce, homemade by her 
grandmother. Her place settings were 
colored leaves, and her decorations 
included mums and pumpkins. She 
would have held the ceremony in 
the apple orchard, if it weren’t for 
the potential problems a Porta-potty 
poses to a wedding gown. 

When I asked Sarah her 
favorite type of apple, she didn’t 
think twice. “My favorite, and 
probably everybody else’s,” she said, 
“is Macoun.” We were standing just 
inside the entrance of the grocery 
store at Bishop’s Orchards, which 
stocks grass-fed beef, gluten-free 
cookies, local vegetables, and organic 
frozen foods alongside the bakery 
breads, fudge, pies, fruit wines, 
apple cider, and, of course, the fruit. 
Sarah explained that the produce 
section is here, at the front, because 
this store started as a farmer’s market 
and produce remains at its heart. 
At the forefront of the 
produce section are the apples. 
All grown at Bishops’ Orchards, 
they come in rows, in big white 
sacks, and in every variety. Copies 
of a green Xeroxed sheet, titled 
“Know your apples,” sit at the 
ready, categorizing the qualities of 
16 varieties of apple and the fitness 
of each to eating, salad, pie, sauce, 
baking, and canning. On the reverse 
are nutritional facts about apples, 
paragraphs titled “Apples Relieve 
Tension” and “Nature’s Toothbrush,” 
and a recipe for applesauce. 
Here, at the front of the 
apple section, are the Macouns. 
“You bite into it and get that snap 
right away,” said Sarah. “A great 
eating apple.” They sell out quickly. 
“As soon as we start saying we have 
Macouns,” she continued, “people 
come out of the woodwork to get 
them.” With a sharp eye for these 
trends and a degree in business 



**Title: The Bishops of Bishop's Orchards**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
February 2011
A family of four on the road back to 
the farm stand after picking their fill 
of apples. 
from Northeastern University, Sarah 
is poised to handle the booming 
business behind these apples. 
She is the oldest of the 
four siblings. The others are Allison, 
a teacher; Carrie, an accountant; 
and Ryan, still a student. When it 
became apparent that neither of 
her sisters who had come of age was 
eager to take on the farm’s operation, 
Sarah left the career she’d begun in 
marketing for Bishop’s. “I think 
everyone says, ‘What if,’” she says 
now. “No matter what industry 
you’re in. I may be wrong, but I 
think everyone has that side of them 
that says, Hey, I wish I could have 
been something else…There’s just 
not enough time in a short life.” 
Without 
training 
in 
spraying, pest management, or any 
of the other day-to-day tasks of a 
farm’s operation, it’s possible that 
Sarah may not be able to run the 
farm alone, as her great-uncle later 
told me. Watching Sarah handle the 
day’s tasks, however, I never would


the poynter fellowship
Bringing the best journalists of our generation into conversation at Yale
recent speakers include
     ira glass             soledad o’brien          tom brokaw
       Event listings at opac.yale.edu/poynter.aspx
Photo: Richard Frank


Periodically, her cell 
phone beeped—always a crisis. 	
	
“You’ve got to be kidding 
me,” she said, as we stood in front of 
the cider. “I’m having a heart attack 
as we speak.” She picked up a few 
bottles, examined them, replaced 
them, and hung up the phone. 
“Always something.” This time, she 
had been informed that the bar code 
on the redesigned cider label was 
incorrect. The last time, the grill 
near the apple trees, which had been 
turning out hot dogs for customers 
picking apples, was out of propane. 
To solve that problem, she found 
her father, Keith Bishop. Keith is 
one of the current CEOs of Bishop’s 
Orchards, in charge of its business 
operation. His cousin Jonathan, who 
presides over planting, harvesting, 
and spraying crops, is the other.
There are blood Bishops, 
Sarah explained, as we sat on straw 
bales, readying ourselves for a 
hayride around the apple orchard, 
and then there are spouses, like 
Sarah’s mother and uncle. Besides 
Sarah, her father, and his cousin, 
blood Bishops currently involved 
in the farm’s operation include 
her aunt, the bakery manager. It is 
Sarah’s grandfather Albert Bishop 
and her great-uncle Gene Bishop, 
however, who remain the Bishops’ 
reigning patriarchs.
Fourth Generation
“T
his is the kind of weather we 
dream about,” crowed Gene 
when I joined him in his office one 
October day. “These are the days 
that make or break the business. A 
good weekend like this goes a long 
way.” From the lines of customers 
and cars parked close on the grass, I 
could see what he meant. I could see 
how the farm’s success might hinge 
on a single perfect day.
	
Gene had just come from 
home, but, like all the other Bishops 
and Bishop employees, he wore 
a forest-green polo shirt with the 
company’s logo over his heart. He 
lives next to Bishop’s Orchards, and 
always has. “I can walk up that hill 
up the street over there,” he said, 
“and I can see all three houses I’ve 
ever lived in.” Gene drove a tractor 
for the first time in 1938, when he 
was five years old, eight years after 
a Connecticut agricultural report 
noted the Bishops’ own New Haven 
County as the largest apple producer 
in the state.
Growing up during the 
Great Depression, Gene graduated 
from Guilford High School with 
a class of only 32. “It was a small 
class,” he quipped, “because anyone 
born in 1933 was not planned.” 
After a few years at the University 
of Connecticut, Gene returned to 
Bishop’s Orchards, married his wife 
at 21, and went about beginning his 
life as a farmer, working with his 
father and his uncle. He sold life 
insurance on the side for the first few 
years, but after that, he restricted 
his activities to farming and farm 
management. He enlisted during 
the Korean War, and then delayed 
his service in order to farm.
	
“It’s been a very rewarding 
life,” Gene said. “The longer I’ve 
been here, the more I like it.” 
	
He has been here long 
enough to remember peddling 
“second”-quality apples door-to-
door around town. He can remember 
1957, when Bishop’s Orchards was 
incorporated as a business, with 
Gene’s father as president, Gene as 
vice president, Gene’s cousin Albert 
as secretary, and Albert’s father as 
treasurer. Gene continued to work 
for the farm until his son Jonathan 
and Albert’s son Keith took over. 
After that, Gene ran the town. He 
served ten years on Guilford’s Board 
of Selectmen, two of them as First 
Selectman, and he currently serves 
as the Chairman of Guilford’s Public 
Works Commission. 
	
When Gene showed me 
the map hanging on the Bishop’s 
Orchards’ office’s wall, I could 
see that here in Guilford, his leap 
from farm management to town 
management was logical. Bishop’s 
Orchards occupies a large patch 
of town. In fact, when this map 
was made in 1970, even more of 
Guilford was covered in farmland. 
Gene stood and pointed out places 
where three other orchards once 
stood, all within a stone’s throw of 
Bishop’s.
	
Sullivan’s Orchards is all 
grown over, he said, because after 
Don Sullivan retired twenty years 
ago, none of his family would 
resume its operation, and “the farm 
just sat there.” Hilltop Orchards, 
Keith Bishop’s 
business card reads 
“Co-CEO, Treasurer 
& Winemaker.”
Sarah 
Bishop-Dellaventura 
loves apples. For her 
October wedding, the 
party favors were two 
hundred jars of 
applesauce, 
homemade by her 
grandmother.


too, “stopped growing anything” a 
long time ago. Desperate for funds 
after he couldn’t find anyone to 
inherit its operation, Hilltop’s last 
owner-operator sold all the topsoil. 
“He doesn’t have anything left to 
grow on,” said Gene. “He sold the 
land to the YMCA.” Until recently, 
Guilford’s only active farm and 
farmer’s market besides Bishop’s 
was Fanicello’s, but its youngest 
generation showed no interest in 
their inheritance, and now, the land 
lies fallow. 
“We’ve 
been 
fortunate 
so far,” Gene said of his family, 
whose way of life depends on the 
willingness of the sixth generation 
of Bishops to continue the farm’s 
operation.
An Inheritance for Generations
T
he Bishops usually employ 
about 
one 
hundred 
non-
Bishops, Sarah explained, as we 
clambered aboard the hayride. This 
time of year there are closer to 120, 
or 140. Non-Bishop employees 
include a man whom Sarah called 
“Crazy John,” the man driving our 
hayride. Kids wait for his tractor, 
she explained, because they know he 
gives the fastest ride. “Most kids do 
end up crying,” joked Crazy John, 
as he latched the hayride’s railing 
behind us, “so I know I’m doing a 
good job.” Sarah and I sat on the 
straw as Crazy John went into the 
tractor and started up the hayride. 
When we reached the top 
of the hill, the ride stopped with 
a shudder, and more passengers 
boarded. An hour later, people 
would line up twenty deep to take 
the ride to the best apple trees in 
this 220-acre section of land—the 
largest continuous piece of the 
313-acre farm, where rows of apple-
freckled trees are clearly labeled 
so the orchard’s patrons can know 
whether they’re harvesting Ida Red 
or Macintosh, Golden Delicious or 
Stayman. After all, some pickers are 
quite picky. 
“Get the reddest, most 
beautiful,” said one mother to her 
three small girls. “And this is how 
you do it. Listen to me before you 
pick an apple. Twist, twist—and 
then pull.” The family lives in 
Guilford and comes here, the mother 
told me, “just about every year.” 
Her daughters toddled at her feet, 
holding buckets, and their father 
explained today’s strategy. “My wife 
wants to make applesauce and pies,” 
he said, “and I want some for eating. 
We tried to pick the ones that were 
good for all of those categories. 
Jonagold, Mutsu, and—what was 
the other kind we were looking for?” 
“Cortland,” supplied his 
wife. 
“Oh,” he said, “I see some 
over there, girls!” And the girls 
ran off, buckets in hand, between 
the rows, the early afternoon sun 
shining off their white-blond heads. 
It was that time of year. 
“Something about apple-
picking and fall foliage—it screams 
New England,” Sarah said. “I can’t 
imagine living anywhere else this 
time of year.” In fact, the American 
tradition of apples is rooted in 
New England, where early English 
settlers first introduced the fruit. By 
1641, representatives of the king of 
England had decreed that settlers 
claiming more than 100 acres of 
land in the colonies must use some 
of that acreage to plant apple trees. 
Apple seeds and seedlings later found 
their way from New England into 
wagons of settlers headed westward. 
Johnny 
“Appleseed” 
Chapman, 
the legendary outdoorsman who 
took sacks of apple seeds down 
the Mississippi and deep into the 
frontier, was from Massachusetts. 
	
Today, 
Yale 
students 
frequently visit nearby Bishop’s 
Orchards on field trips subsidized by 
their residential college masters, who 
want to give all their students the 
chance to acquaint themselves with 
the autumn harvest. “The fall trip to 
Bishop’s Orchards for apple picking 
is a decade-long Pierson tradition,” 
proclaimed the “Pierson Sun,” a 
newsletter of Pierson College, in 
October. For these new Connecticut 
residents, 
it’s 
an 
important 
introduction to their home.
Unlike 
the 
Hanelius 
family, who owned the Connecticut 
apple orchard of my childhood, the 
Bishops feel no economic pressure to 
sell their land, Sarah reassured me. 
The only pressure comes from loyal 
customers who want to make sure 
the Bishops keep the land they have 
farmed for 139 years. To Guilford 
residents, what Sarah is poised to 
inherit is nothing short of a legend. 
She told me that growing up a Bishop 
was hard, because everyone in town 
recognized her and her siblings—
and knew their parents, whom 
they’d notify when Sarah so much as 
ran a red light. “I grew up living in 
a glass house,” she said. “Everywhere 
you went,” her sister Allison 
Pasquier added in an e-mail, “people 
would ask if you were a Bishop like 
the apple Bishops.” In Guilford, the 
Bishops are an institution—one 
whose maintenance requires work, 
perseverance, and a certain steely 
attitude.
Growing up a Bishop 
was hard, because 
everyone in town 
recognized Sarah and 
her siblings—and 
knew their parents, 
whom they’d notify 
when Sarah so much 
as ran a red light.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Jacque Feldman**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
34
The New Journal
Fifth Generation
K
eith Bishop, Sarah’s father, 
wears many hats. His business 
card reads, “Co-CEO, Treasurer 
& Winemaker.” Also the Vice 
Chairman of the Guilford Board 
of Education, he told me he doesn’t 
take lightly his status as community 
leader. “To me, Bishop’s Orchards is 
synonymous with my family,” wrote 
Allison, “especially my father, who 
has lived his entire life in the context 
of the farm.” Keith’s e-mail signature 
includes a quotation from Richard 
Brinsley Sheridan, a nineteenth-
century British politician: “The 
surest way not to fail is to determine 
to succeed.”

Keith is a businessman. 
When I asked him about Bishop’s 
Orchards, he leapt quickly to 
“services we’re offering,” “product 
lines,” 
and 
maintaining 
the 
building’s “historical look.” The 
Bishops are active in lobbying for 
agricultural initiatives, and they are 
charter members of the University 
of New Haven Center for Family 
Business, where they learn to stay on 
top of trends, Keith said. He began 
cutting cabbage and lettuce in the 
farm’s vegetable beds as a boy, and 
he returned to work immediately 
after graduating from Cornell. He 
has been CEO for 12 years, and 
he spoke fluently of trends in apple 
picking that vary with the traffic 
of New Yorkers to their houses on 
Cape Cod.

Keith is the man to run 
this farm, but he plans to retire 
sometime over the next ten years, 
passing along his title to one of 
“those in the next generation who 
are interested in the business.” 
“Whoever that is,” he 
added.

The Last Generation
J
onathan, Keith’s cousin, has no 
children, but Keith has four, all 
of whom grew up with Bishop’s 
Orchards in mind. “The most 
memorable moments from my 
childhood would be the Guilford 
Fair Parade, which was always in 
September,” wrote Carrie Bishop, 
the youngest daughter, in an e-mail. 
“We would stay up almost all night 
the day before the parade to build a 
float that represented the farm, and 
would ride on the float in the parade 
as my Dad drove the tractor. We 
are a pretty tight family brought up 
with good traditions and values.”

Carrie now lives in Boston, 
working as an auditor at KPMG, 
an audit, tax, and advisory services 
firm. Recently engaged, she plans to 
settle in Massachusetts. “Currently, 
I do not have any hobbies that bring 
me closer to the farm,” she wrote, 
“besides being very picky about the 
fruit and produce I buy.”

Allison, 
middle 
daughter, is living with her husband 
in Brussels, teaching preschool at 
an international school there. She 
wrote from Belgium that she loves 
shopping at the farm market when 
she’s home, but can’t see leaving what 
she does to take a more active role in 
its success. “As for her future,” said 
her father, “she’s doing her thing.”


That leaves Sarah—and the 
youngest sibling, Ryan Bishop, who 
was out hiking with a Bishop cousin 
at twelve years old when he first 
realized that he and the other boy 
were the last two Bishops capable of 
passing on the family name. “Some 
people think my dad kept having 
kids until he had a son,” he’ll say 
now, recollecting that hike from his 
dorm room at Cornell University, 
his father’s alma mater, where he’s 
studying agricultural sciences and 
plant sciences with double minors in 
modern business and viticulture. 
“At this point, I’m pretty 
sure I’m going back,” said Ryan, 
after listing his majors and minors. 
He would fill Jonathan’s shoes as 
farm manager while his sister, like 
his father, keeps the books. Like 
Sarah, he’d like to enact certain 
changes to the farm; like Sarah, 
Ryan anticipates resistance from 
the conservative older generations, 
who continue to hold stock in the 
business after they retire. He’d 
especially like to put in grapevines.

“In middle school, people 
associated me with apples and gave 
me relevant nicknames,” Ryan said. 
Even so, Ryan’s future as a farmer 
was never a foregone conclusion. 
He entered Cornell as a pre-med 
student, shifting majors around the 
same time Sarah left her career in 
marketing. Ryan’s hobbies include 
playing 
saxophone 
guitar, 
rock climbing, ice climbing, and 
whitewater 
kayaking. 
However, 
though he’ll join friends on a rock-
climbing trip to Nevada over spring 
break, pruning work at Bishop’s 
Orchards was his destination in 
December.


Yet 
before 
he 
returns 
permanently, Ryan has two years 
left at college. In compliance with 
a Bishop family rule that young 
Bishops of his generation must work 
for two years outside the orchard 
before returning to the family 
business, he’ll then take more time 
away—at another farm, he offered, 
When she saw that 
neither of her sisters 
was eager to take on 
the farm’s operation, 
Sarah left the career 
she’d begun in 
marketing for 
Bishop’s. “I think 
everyone says, ‘What 
if,’” she says now.


--- Page 35 ---

35
February 2011
TNJ
Jacque Feldman is a junior 
in Davenport College and 
a Managing Editor of The 
New Journal.

in order to learn new techniques, or 
perhaps pursuing travel coordinated 
through WWOOF, World Wide 
Opportunities on Organic Farms. 
He also plans to apply to the Peace 
Corps. Those mandatory two years 
away from the farm, he said, might 
turn into five or ten.

His uncle, Keith’s brother, 
abandoned Bishop’s Orchards to 
start his own farm in Pennsylvania. 
Ryan plans to return to the farm, 
but how long he’ll take “would 
depend on where I land when I get 
out of college, how much I enjoy 
what I’m doing,” Ryan explained, all 
too aware of the sacrifices he would 
make. “My free time would be cut 
down significantly if I were running 
the farm myself. Once Jonathan 
takes off, it’s on my back.” About 
the possibility of return to the farm, 
Ryan speaks dutifully and carefully, 
the sharp focus of this picture of the 
rest of his life giving an edge to his 
voice as well.

For Now
W
hen Sarah and I disembarked 
the hayride, she found a 
comfortable picnic table, got us 
some cider, and we sat and talked 
business. Sarah told me to watch 
out for the bees that our opened 
bottles of cider attracted. She 
seemed to have inherited her father’s 
savoir-faire, mentioning renovation 
projects and trends that affect the 
grocery store (acai berries, gluten-
free, the movie Food Inc). It’s a large-
scale operation: this time of year, the 
Bishops receive deliveries of twenty 
to thirty tons of pumpkins weekly. 
Bishop’s Orchards closes only seven 
days out of the year. 

And yet Sarah seems up for 
anything. Her father emphasized to 
me that Sarah keeps too busy with 
her young children and the farm, 
but in person, she doesn’t show it. 
Tucking her blonde hair behind her 
ear, smiling when she talks, she is 
bright, efficient, and bubbly. The 
hayride was her idea.

Growing 
up, 
Sarah 
never thought she’d take over the 
family business. For a long time, 
in fact, she thought she might be a 
teacher. Then, after graduating from 
Northeastern, she worked for three 
years as marketing manager at Moffly 
Media in Greenwich, Connecticut. 
This job happened to comply 
with the Bishop family rule—but, 
that 
mandate 
notwithstanding, 
Sarah had her own goals. She had 
planned on living in New York and 
“working for some big magazine or 
ad industry.”

“I envy her,” Sarah said of 
her sister Allison, the one who lives 
in Brussels. “I think in my next life, 
maybe I’ll do what she does.” But for 
now, Sarah has prioritized Bishop’s 
Orchards. “I decided as the years 
went on that I wanted to see the 
business continue,” she said. In her 
sisters’ absence, Sarah has decided 
to take on the farm, with all its 
limitations. “As frustrating as it can 
be to work with family,” she says, 
“you do it.” You do it if you love the 
farm as much as Sarah does. 
 “This is what I grew up 
doing,” she continued, batting a 
bee away from her hair. “It’s what 
I love. I’m hap—pretty happy. I’m 
pretty happy…I feel stressed about 
it at times, but I never have any 
remorse.” She persists in the hope 
that her brother will grow up to join 
her—in whatever hope has kept this 
business afloat through 139 years 
of modernization. The strongest 
guarantor of Bishop’s Orchards’ 
survival is to keep it in the family. 
“I can’t picture this all being houses 
up here,” Sarah said, imagining 
what might happen eventually if the 
farm were sold to an outside party. 
“I don’t know if I’d forgive myself.” 
Apples themselves are cultivated by 
the grafting of branches onto trees 
already growing, but this farm’s 
roots run deep.

Not Far From the Tree
A
fter parting ways with the 
Bishops, 
I 
couldn’t 
resist 
buying one of the big white bags 
of apples—specifically, Macouns. I 
tried my first Macoun on the way 
home. The apple was small, filling 
my palm only partially, and bright 
red. When I took a bite, its skin 
gave way with a crunch, revealing a 
white, sweet interior. It was as crisp 
and hard as Sarah had promised. I 
ate the whole thing, quickly, and 
remembered joyfully that my bag 
of apples, the smallest size available, 
still held four quarts. The face 
of the bag told the apples’ story: 
APPLES & CIDER – BISHOP’S 
ORCHARDS – CONNECTICUT 
GROWN.


This 
story 
has 
been 
passed on through generations 
and culminates in that sharp, 
bright taste. In the end, that’s 
what all the effort is for. It’s the 
taste of my childhood and, for one 
Guilford family, something more 
important—something else entirely. 
But 
that’s 
comparing 
oranges and you-know-what.



--- Page 36 ---

36

t six feet five inches, I am an 
abnormally tall man.  And 
therefore, I can expect the 
world to treat me pretty well.  If 
the numerous studies on the subject 
can be trusted, I am, by virtue of 
my dimensions, likely to ascend my 
career ladder rapidly and attain a 
senior leadership position.  Women 
on dating websites will seek me out. 
The style pages of Details and Esquire 
will continue to feature fashion tips 
geared toward reshaping vertically 
challenged men in my image: 
pinstripes for the elongated look, 
or cropped jackets for the illusion 
of legginess. On the surface, being 
tall is a sweet deal.  It’s curious, 
then, that the item in my wardrobe


**Title: On Height and Hiding**
**Author: Cory Finley**
**Page number(s): 36**

On Height 
and Hiding
Cory Finley remembers what it was 
like to stand tall, but walk small.
   Personal Essay
I’ve owned the longest is a pair of 
gym shorts so loose and long and 
baggy that they do the impossible: 
make me look damn near squat. 
“Use your height!” I can 
still hear my father shouting from the 
edge of the middle school basketball 
court.  He himself was a basketball 
standout in high school because he 
harnessed his six feet six inches. On 
offense, he stretched out his massive 
arms to loft the ball into the basket; 
on defense, he puffed himself up 
and threw himself between his 
opponents and their goal.  I was 
an athletic embarrassment precisely 
because I refused to use my father’s 
genetic gift to me.  Faced with more 
aggressive opponents, I curled up 
and hunched down, once mumbling, 
“I’m sorry,” when my arm got in 
the way of an opponent’s shot. 
And in some fundamental 
way, I was sorry.  I didn’t ask to be tall. 
Somewhere between fifth and eighth 
grade, my body shot up, my limbs 
stretching wildly in all directions. 
My pubescent brain simply couldn’t 
keep up—there was just too much 
of me. I suddenly woke up each 
morning in a body that encroached 
on others’ space without even 
trying.  I saw myself as an inherent 
intrusion, so in my personal life, as 
on the basketball court, I sought 
out means to hide my outsize 
dimensions.  I scoured the Big-n-
Tall section at Target for clothes—
like those shorts—that engulfed 
me, clothes that hung around my 
body like great, big funeral palls 
and concealed me from public view. 
Maybe this was partly 
to hide from the female gaze—a 
dreaded force in the ticklish years 
of middle school.  The few times 
that a member of the opposite sex 
expressed interest in my physical 
properties, I assumed that she was 
joking. This body? This awkward 
lanky thing?  My first kiss came 
sophomore year, a closed-mouth 
peck onstage in a production of 
Cole Porter’s Anything Goes, and the 
prospect of it so terrified me that 
I feigned illness during the dress 
rehearsal just to postpone it another 
day.  The girl that I took to my first 
school dance began dating a woman 
a year later, and the next one was so 
much shorter than I was—even in 
four-inch heels—that we opted to 
skip the slow-dance entirely.  The 
third one I ended up dating, but 
only to the extent that watching 
Hotel Rwanda on my basement 
couch and accidentally half-groping 
her left breast can be called “dating.” 
That brief relationship ended shortly 
after our first kiss.  It went like this: 
I positioned her carefully on a step 
of my porch, placed myself two 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Cory Finley**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
February 2011
steps below, and then attempted to 
press my scrunched lips against her 
mouth with the vigor one normally 
applies to scarfing down a roast-beef 
sandwich or blowing out a wad of 
birthday candles.  Even today, the 
memory registers like an ice cube 
dropped down the back of my shirt.


Eventually I shed these 
growing pains.  By the time I reached 
college I had kissed a girl with actual 
success (we were both sitting down); 
I had started to purchase jeans that 
fit my legs and sent the old clownish 
corduroys to Goodwill; I had even 
begun to hit the gym on my own 
volition. But the shorts remain to 
this day. I’ve grown into them a 
little, but they still swing around 
noisily when I run, still shroud my 
legs, still look a little as though 
I’d snatched them from the closet 
of MC Hammer at his prime. I 
maintain an abusive relationship 
with these shorts, habitually tossing 
them into the corner, unwashed 
and unfolded. Perhaps this passive 
aggression betokens the Freudian 
baggage that returns whenever I 
tighten their drawstrings around 
my waist.  For even as I distance 
myself from the psychochemical 
clusterfuck of puberty, I’m not quite 
ready to shed the adolescent instinct 
to hide, curl up, and bury my 
knobby limbs in voluminous nylon.


To this day, when I dress 
up to go out, and fix my hair in 
place with a few practiced swipes, 
and unbutton my top button so 
that just a tentative triangle of chest 
hair peeks out, I don’t quite believe 
the act.  When late at night I break 
off drunken flirtations to stare at 
myself foggily in the glass of some 
bathroom mirror, I call my own 
bluff.  I’m a man, I say to myself. 
I’m tall and strong and statistically 
desirable.  But then I blink and 
there’s 
a 
lanky 
seventh-grader, 
standing on the basketball court, 
apologizing to those he touches, 
swaddling himself in pendulous 
shorts.  After all these years, I think 
my mind still hasn’t caught up to my 
body.  Sometimes I have to shut it 
off: Only when I loosen those rangy 
limbs with rows of shots or packs of 
beers can I compel them to twine 
around the waist of another human 
being.  And then, in the dark of 
a strange room, when my mind 
settles for a minute, again I want to 
murmur “I’m sorry” for being large 
and sloppy and intrusive by default. 
I still don’t feel lucky to be tall.  I feel 
far too small to be living in this body.
I’m a man, I say 
to myself.  I’m 
tall and strong 
and statistically 
desirable.
TNJ
Cory Finley is a senior in 
Calhoun College.



**Title: ENDNOTE**
**Author: Victor Zapana**
**Page number(s): 39**

   ENDNOTE
By Victor Zapana
A
s a second-semester senior, 
with the clock ticking 
down to graduation, I feel 
compelled to make the most of my 
remaining time at Yale: to learn the 
lessons that matter, and to fill my 
remaining neurons with the most 
important information I can find. 
By this, of course, I mean learn to 
play beer pong.


I meant Beirut. I knew 
that. Bei. Root.


I should have honed this 
skill long ago, but it can’t be that 
hard, right?  You only need: one 
long table, 22 red Solo cups, two 
teams of two students each, another 
team waiting to play, and three 
random Yalies awkwardly watching 
because they don’t know anyone 
else at the party.


And the rules? Here are 
the basics, as I understand them 
from a single freshman-year foray 
into the game:
1.) Stand at one end of the table.
2.) Close your eyes.
3.) Throw a ping pong ball at the 
10 cups on the other end. (They 
belong to the other team.)
4.) Hope that the ball drops into 
one of those cups. 
5.) Open your eyes.


There are other rules to 
the game, which vary by region. 
According to tradition, the original 
version of the game began at either 
Bucknell or Lehigh University. 
Conceived in a fraternity (hopefully 
the only thing conceived there 
that year), it was named after the 
Lebanese city because a Hezbollah 
suicide 
bomber 
attacked 
an 
American camp there. (Real life too 
real? Keep drinking.)


After a colossal failure I 
won’t validate by mentioning here, I 
decided not to play another game of 
Beirut after freshman year. (Rather, 
none of my roommates wanted 
to play with me.) But I was sure I 
could improve. I just needed to find 
a tutor who was always playing the 
game, perfecting his techniques. I 
needed a Van Wilder, or that old guy 
in Glory Days who never graduates. 
But I was afraid of fraternities. To 
whom could I turn?


“How can I even pretend 
to teach you when I have no idea 
myself?!” wrote Southern belle and 
sorority member Courtney Pannell 
’11 in an e-mail. “I know this might 
be comical all-in-all, but I’m deeply 
distressed by the fact that I’m so 
bad at beer pong. It’s like a personal 
failure of mine that I cannot correct 
for. Can’t you get…someone who 
may have something more to say 
than ‘You just throw it at it and 
hope for the best?’”


Just throw it at it. Huh, I 
never thought of that. 


I decided to test Pannell’s 
strategy at Feb Club, 28 days of 
liquor-fueled fun, one of the last 
hoorahs for the senior class. At 
one of the parties, a group of three 
seniors announced that they needed 
a fourth player to start a game. I 
volunteered, ready to show how 
much I’d learned. 


I picked up a ping-pong 
ball, looked at one of my opponents’ 
red cups, bent my arm, and—Ah! 
It went in! I got it in! THIS IS SO 
AWESOME.


My team ultimately won 
that game, and I contributed (two 
cups). I said bye to those three 
seniors, whose names I did not 
catch, and moved on, saying hi to 
other awkwardly sipping seniors. I 
felt happy. 


I was sure then that after I 
graduated Yale—and went to work 
sober, wallowing in memories of 
college—I would never play Beirut 
again. But I had finally learned the 
lesson that mattered. Whether I 
remembered it the next morning is 
another story. 
Victor Zapana is a senior in 
Trumbull College and a copy 
editor at The New Journal.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
40
The New Journal
