Publication date: December 2, 1994
Volume: 27
Issue number: 3


**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Monica Fong
- Acting Editor-in-Chief: Suzannt Kim
- Managing Editor: David Gtrbtr
- Business Manager: Dan Andrujtk
- Designer: Kate Schultr
- Production Manager: Ttd Gtsing
- Photography Editor: Katit Brandi
- Contributing Editors: joshua Civin, jay Porur
- Associate Publisher: Christina Lung
- Research Director: Mtlissa Mosko/
- Associate Production Manager: GabritL Snydtr


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- About this Issue
- Points of Departure
- Between the Vines: Mixed Messages - Jay Porter
- Don't Fence Me In - Karen jacobson
- The Next Stage - Robin Kemper
- Burying the Colonel - joshua Civin
- Won't you be our Neighbors? - Ann Sledge
- Trailing Behind? - Kate Schuler
- Medical Miracles - Dan Murphy


**Title: About this Issue**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 9**
...


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Page number(s): 13**


**Title: Between the Vines: Mixed Messages**
**Author: Jay Porter**
**Page number(s): 38**


**Title: Don't Fence Me In**
**Author: Karen jacobson**
**Page number(s): 4**
A group of 
sophomores convene to resurrect an old Yale tradition and face some 
new Yale challenges.


**Title: The Next Stage**
**Author: Robin Kemper**
**Page number(s): 5**
A reknowned graduate drama 
program, a vibrant undergraduate theater communiry-a perfect match?


**Title: Burying the Colonel**
**Author: joshua Civin**
**Page number(s): 18**
A quest to discover the 
final resting place of Revolutionary War. artist John Trumbull takes 
one writer to the basement of Yale's art gallery.


**Title: Won't you be our Neighbors?**
**Author: Ann Sledge**
**Page number(s): 25**
Yale has been 
drawing residents into the New Haven area, but keeping them here 
poses another problem.


**Title: Trailing Behind?**
**Author: Kate Schuler**
**Page number(s): 28**
A quiet controversy rages over 
plans to turn the Farmington Canal into a linear park.


**Title: Medical Miracles**
**Author: Dan Murphy**
**Page number(s): 33**
Dr. Bernie Siegel heads the 
movement in medicine to do more than just fix bodies; he strives to 
heal-through the combination of mind and body.


**About This Issue**
**Author: The Editors**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Being a news and features magazine with a healthy lead time between issues offers unique complications-like the fear of being scooped-.but the format's flexibility make everything worth it. We value, above all else, the ability to cover more than just the stories of the hour. This sometimes means breaking the "let sleeping dogs lie" rule: stories that could have gone unnoticed can spring to life in unexpected ways as eye-opening articles for our readers. 

Occasionally, TN] stories also hatch into minor obsessions for our writers. Robin Kemper has been haunting the Drama School for the past couple of months; Dan Murphy playe~ numerous rounds of phone tag with occult oncologist Bernie Siegel (and his guardian angel George); Kate Schuler's article about the Farmington Canal had hei- traipsing through tunnels under the abandoned railway at strange hours; and Ann Sledge, desperate for the latest information on the Yale Homebuyer Program, besieged her sources' voicemail for weeks on end. 

Josh Civin's article about John Tr~mbull wins this issue's prize for reportorial persistence bordering on the pathological-but then again, the· strange adventures of the patriot-artist seem to inspire uncommon intensity. From the Battle of Bunker's Hill to London art studios to his (somewhat) final resting place beneath the Yale Art Gallery, Trumbull's little-known story begs to be told. To untangle the story behind Trumbull's life, death, and multiple burials,· Civin pored over the manuscripts of Theodore Sizer, a Yale art professor who devoted much of his scholarly career to caquoguing Trumbull's work. He credits much of the story's rich detail to his conversations with Caroline Rollins, Sizer's assistant in this project at the time of his death in 1967. Civin's superimposition of the art historian's work on the painter's creations provided a structure for the piece-with apologies to Simon Schama. (Schama's recent book Dead Certainties seeks to unravel the complicated relationship between painter Benjamin West and an art historian studying his work.) 

Civin recreates the Revolution as it would have looked through the eyes of Trumbull-and Trumbull as he would have appeared to Sizer. Although Civin's article treads the line between history and historical fiction, we believe his extensive research has kept him firmly grounded in the available facts. His journey to the bowels of the Art Gallery to make rubbings of Trumbull's tombstone for the cover may mark the end of his year-long obsession with the old colonel. At least we can hope. 
-The Editors. 


**Points of Departure**
**Author: David Gerber**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Start Your Engines 
If that young man walks down to the New Haven Coliseum on November fourth through sixth he too can join the thousands of satisfied visitors at Auto Expo Ninety Five. For a mere seven dollars he can see futuristic concept cars and world class racing cars and he can test his skills on the all-new Virtual Reality Racing Simulators. If char's not enough he can meer Fred Flinmone Rally Raven and his favorite sports stares from the New York Jers New York Rangers Hanford Whalers New York Yankees and rhe World Wrestling Federation all in an excicing and friendly armosphere. 

But first he can fill out a Personal Quesrionnaire for a chance to win one of 150 Car Phones 25 pairs of Ice Hockey Tickets or Discount Cruises. Then he can look at the 1995 Lincoln Continental featuring the same classic lines with all new safety features. But that's for a Mature Crowd. He probably wants to look at the Escort-the third best-selling car in the U.S.A and the number-one selling car in the world. 

Meanwhile he can chink abour what kind of driving he'll do-cross-country or commute or off-road. The Wagoneer 2000 is perfect for all of rhese. It's all Jeep. 
DECEMBER 1., 1994 
It's outfitted with an Omni-Trac All-Wheel Drive System. A 5.2 litre 220 horsepower engine moves the Wagoneer 2000 while Anri-Lock Disk Brakes with Engine-Modulated Traction Control bring ir to sure stops. Add rhe comfort and convenience of an inrerior with all the "necessities" to make driving enjoyable and the young man has a vehicle chat gives him command of any driving siruacion. 

Across the showroom Oldsmobile wants to make his shopping experience as suaightforward and hassle-free as possible. Each vehicle has a low sricker price every day so a retailer can give him rhe besr price up front-such a good value that traditional discounts and rebates are jusc not necessary. Oldsmobile's new Aurora is anything bur rradirional. It is desrined co change the way rhe young man thinks about luxury cars. Wich a curvaceous yet strong m uscular shape its exrerior is entertainment and its underlying body struct ure is a Wonderful Marvelous Thing. 

If he's a Sophisticated Buyer the young man can listen for thar distinctive sound of qualiry when he shuts the door. Then he can take ho me the laresr Porsche Carrera Cabriolet for $74,147. Then he can spin the Jeep Ski Wheel. Then he can fill out another Personal Questionnaire for a chance to win one of 150 Car Phones 25 pairs of Ice Hockey Tickets or Discount Cruises. T hen he can consider the Dual Climate Control Console-with no ozone-depleting CFC's of course. Then he can spin the Jeep Ski Wheel again. Then he can capture those days of the love affair with the hot rod and take it a step further with the Plymouth Prowler. Then he can fill out another Personal Questionnaire for a chance to win one of 150 Car Phones 25 pairs of Ice Hockey Tickets or Discount Cruises. Then he can tell his auto dealer he saw it all at auto expo. 
-David G~rb~r 

Eurail through Yale 
While working in New Haven chis summer, I finally got the chance to see Europe. I didn't exactly go to Europe rather, Europe came to me. For two weeks a little bit of rhe Continent descended upon Old Campus in the form of 1,100 high school exchange students, hailing from various pares of Wesrern Europe, forming a scaled-down version of the European Communiry within the confines of rhese Ivy walls. And my Eurail pass co this European Community was the position I held as an Resident Assistant in this Continental gathering known as the Educatio n Foundation Language and Culture Camp, the largest of many organizations chat use Yale facilities over rhe summer. 

The Camp provided exchange students a two-week orientation to rhe English language and American culture before rhey dispersed co host families all over rhe United States. Like Yale's fres h man orientation period- a.k.a. "Camp Yale"-this Camp saw Old Campus teeming with excited studenrs, ready to embark on a journey into another world. Along with chis excitement also came the fear of the unknown, which prompted the studenrs to move in packs of 10 or 20 (resembling a frosh class). These roving packs, moving in amoeba-like fashion, proved frustrating for some pedestrians, who were engulfed by "pseudopods" of blond-haired kids, speaking Swedish or German. 

What was my role in all this? My duties as an R.A. entailed supervising and providing assisrance to the administrators higher up, much like a camp counselor. However, underlying these standard tasks, the most important aspect of my job was trying to dispel their misconceptions of Americans and American culture. This proved to be an interesting experience, as educational for me as it was for them. 

Much of what these kids perceived to be American was gathered from the American pop culture imported into their countries. When I told one student I was from Southern California, she inquired whether or nor my address included the zipcode 90210. She assumed that since I attend Yale, I must be rich. And the rich in· California live beside the Walshes in Beverly Hills. Hence, by the transitive property of equality, I must live in Beverly Hills. It wasn't long before I informed her that student loan repayments would eat a hole in my pocket for a long time to come. For two German aficionados of gangsta rap, America was a fantasyland, occupied by gangbangers with big guns and loose women. The lesson they learned was that not every American packs a rod or drinks 40 ouncers. And not everyone watches television each waking hour or at least not more than five hours a day. And not everyone frequents fast-food restaurants daily. 

To my surprise, there were a sprinkling of people of Asian descent, as well as other non-white Europeans. Although the numbers are small relative to North America, diversity is slowly breaking ground in European soil. The kids represented a variety of national cultures, each rich in irs own traditions, history, and differences. Not every Swede sees Ace


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Sothy Tia**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
of Base as a great benefit to his or her 
country's trade balance. Not every 
German watches Baywatch fervently. Not 
every French person watches Jerry Lewis 
movies religiously. 

After an exhausting but fun two 
weeks, I (and hopefully the kids as well) 
left 
the 
Camp 
with 
a 
greater 
understanding of each others' societies. By 
doing so, we all gained insights into our 
own society. If nothing else, at least I 
know not every European is a card-
carrying member of the David H asselhoff 
music fan club, and they know I'm not a 
gun-toting, 40-ounce-drinking surfer 
living in BH 90210. 
-Sothy Tia


**Title: Homeless on Yale's Gold Coast**
**Author: Kathy Hsu**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

·At one time or another, Room F 735-
nicknamed the Gold Coast- probably 
served as an office for JE. Long and 
rectangular, the common room is twice the 
normal size of most other rooms in the 
college. Located on the first floor, it seemed 
perfect those days when three flights of stairs 
stood between me and a forgotten English 
notebook. My three roommates and I didn't 
particularly want the big calf muscles 
developed from running up and down stairs, 
and we liked the space. When we moved in, 
we found that it came complete with a 
fireplace, two lamps,· plenty of electrical 
outlets, and a couple of friends named 
Walter and John. 

Walter and John are the homeless men 
who sleep on top of the two platforms 
directly beneath our windows. The hissing 
steam from the water heaters down in the JE 
basement rises, keeping the platforms warm 
on chilly nights. 

We first met John when he poked his 
head through the open window and asked 
us if we had an extra blanket. In response, 
two of us jumped up and flew across to the 
other side of the room. Somehow, I don't 
think we made a very good first impression. 

After that uncomfortable introduction, 
we tried to avoid thinking about our 
honorary guests. The windows in our 
common room are high and small, with 
thick metal screens criss-crossing the inside 
of the glass. So even if we tried, we would 
have difficulties seeing what was happening 
on the outside; we never knew if "those two 
men" were lying out there. Every so often, 
John's single cough echoed as our only 
reminder of our guests in those rare 
moments of silence in Room F 735. 

I had always prided myself on my 
community involvement and sensitivity. I 
was involved with the Yale Hunger and 
Homeless Action Project (YHHAP) and 
tutoring for English as a Second Language 
(ESL). I didn't isolate myself from the 
community around me; from time to time I 
would stick my head out from that glass 
barrier called "campus life." But no amount 
of volunteer work could deny my fear of the 
man who asked me for a blanket. 

About a month after school started, I 
finally found out more about Walter and 
John. One of my friends, a fellow student, 
having spent many an evening talking to 
some of the people on the streets, had 
gotten to know Walter, John, and other 
homeless people. Walter and John-they 
sleep next to your 
window, she explained. 
John doesn't like the 
shelter,-. 
He 
thinks 
they're too noisy; he 
thinks there are roo 
many loud people. He 
even told me he likes jail 
more than the shelters. 
But it's hard this year 
because the policemen 
are cracking down, my 
friend 
complained. 
Maybe that's why I 
haven't seen many of my 
buddies ou'tside recently. 
But maybe it's because 
they've found a place to 
sleep. 

The first time I met 
Walter, he was sirring on 
the steps near the Pierson 
walkway. I couldn't tell 
how old he was, but he 
reminded me of a very 
old man. He didn't say much. I wanted to 
ask him what he was thinking, but I was 
afraid to break his concentration. His eyes 
stared down on the ground as if intently 
watching something. I wondered what he 
watched. 

Sometimes when I see Walter on the 
street, I stop to say a few words. He doesn't 
say much; he usually nods "yes" or "no" to 
my questions. I'm not able to give him food 
and blankets every night, but in our 
conversations we may exchange something 
better. 
-Kathy Hsu


**Title: Don't Fence Me In**
**Author: Karen Jacobi**
**Page number(s): 9**

As groups of soph omores attempt t o resurrect the old Yale instit ution of the 
Fence Club, ' 90s Yalies may cry ... 
Don't Fence Me In 
W
en the Fence Club closed in 1979 the New York 
Timt'i ran an article tided "The Passing of a Club for 
he Elite at Yale." The piece described the club as "a 
astion of privilege, where a man of means could go 
for a good meal, to shoot some pool or have a quiet drink with a few 
college buddies." The description of the club evokes an antiquated 
vision of Yale, when it was overwhelmingly homogeneous and before 
women had been admitted. Last spring a number of then-freshmen 
began contemplating the notion of resurrecting the club. 

Nathaniel Fogg (BK '97) had grown up hearing about the Fence 
Club from his father, Joseph G. Fogg III (BK '68), and his father's 
friends, who had belonged to the club in their Yale days. 

The "Fence" of old retained much of its campus renown eveQ 
after its closing. The original building, which still stands off of York 
Street, has been used by student organizations in recent years for 
informal parties. In its heyday, the Fence building contained a bar, 
large dining room, ballroom, billiard room, and a stage. 

nitially, Fogg and a few of his friends began to talk about the idea 
of finding a place of retreat. They envisioned a house off-
campus: a place to enjoy an afternoon snack, watch television, 
and hang out with friends. Throughout the summer and this fall, 
their vision has evolved into a new Fence Club. However, the 
utopian vision of the society they wished to create contrasted with 
what many would consider a legitimate purpose for forming the 
group. They lacked a unifying principle or cause for which to fight. 
Fogg and his friends sought only to get a house. 

The Fence Club began as Psi Upsilon, a junior fraternity formed 
in 1839. In 1934 it became the Fence Club, named for the fence 
surrounding the Old Campus which was once a social hangout. The 
fence was more than a gathering place--it also operated as a site of 
social conflict; social cliques and classes claimed their own sections of 
the fence. 

could not transfer meals to different residential colleges, so the club 
allowed students from different colleges to eat together. Fence's 
popularity peaked in the mid 1960s, with as many as 150 members. 
It served as a sponsor for social functions, a place of retreat, and as 
Fogg recalls his father saying, a place to "cement friendships." In the 
late 1960s Fence even had a surplus of $120,000 from bar revenues, 
according to the New York Times. 

. 
Yale changed in the 1970s, following a national trend against the 
establishment and tradition. Fence lost its attraction. Yale began to 
emphasize residential college life and accepted female students in 
1969. In that year the Yale Banner described fraternities as "benign 
irrelevancies." In 1972 6KE closed, and Fence was left with a mere 
20 members. 

Although Fence had a few major drives to increase membership 
in the late 1970s and accepted female members in 1972, it never 
again attracted the numbers or the dues needed to cover expenses. In 
1979, with a debt of $26,700, Fence closed its doors and turned the 
building over to ·the university. Fence had no place in contemporary 
Yale. "The profile of the undergraduate body seemed to have 
permanently shifted, and there simply was not enough demand for 
the fraternities to keep them operating," noted Joseph Fogg III. 

Fence's imminent resurrection raises questions about what role it 
could fill at Yale in the 1990s. Over the last decade Yale has become 
increasingly diverse, with the highest percentage of female 
undergraduates of any Ivy and a vocal minority population. The 
Fence chose to break its affiliation with the national Psi Upsilon 
organization and, like most of the junior fraternities on campus, set 
up a foundation. The Trumbull Trust Fund, regulated by a small 
group of Fence alumni, supported the society's activities. In the 
1960s, Yale had two major fraternities-Delta Kappa Epsilon (6KE), 
which attracted the so-called jocks, and Fence, 
home of the "preppies." Members dined several 
b 
times a week at the house. At that time students 
Fence of old hardly seems appropriate in today's 
sening. 

While most students at Yale do not identify with 


**The Fence Club: A Revival**
**Author: Kilren Jacobson**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the Old Blue that the Fence Club 
represents, interest in exclusive membership 
societies may be on the rise. More than ten 
fraternities and sororities have appeared in 
recent years; all have sizeable memberships 
and parties packed with undergraduates on 
the weekends. 


Along with renewed interest in 
fraternities, membership in ethnic and 
cultural groups has increased. Whether it be 
the Greek system, cultural houses, or literary 
discussion societies such as Sr. Anthony 
Hall, students are searching for a place 
where they can retreat from the relentless 
pace of Yale life. 


The students reviving the Fence Club 
also felt Yale is too large for them to meet 
a variety of people. By the end of their 
freshman year, Fogg and John Levinson 
(SY '97) felt trapped by their social 
activities. Both wanted to meet people 
outside of their residential colleges and 
chosen activities. However, neither found 
the external venue to 
have 
real 
conversations and form friendships. They 
had considered joining fraternities, but 
neither wished to align himself with a 
single fraternity, as that might offend 
friends in other fraternities. 


Over the summer, a group of six 
students officially planned to open the 
Fence Club again. As they wrote in one of 
their original pledge commitments: "We 
are not dreaming anymore and it is time 
that we band together and operate as The 
Fence Club. We will raise the money we 
need to buy a house, from the alums, but 
until then we will start operating just as 
the old Fence did, with members paying 
dues, organizing weekly dinners/meetings, 
and whatever else it is we decide to do for 
fun. It is important that we look to the 
future with a house and a smooth 
operating program but it is more 
important that we deal with what is going 
on right now and not lose sight of the fact 
that we are a solid number of people 
committed to a common goal." 


Fogg, Levinson, and others began a 
subtle recruiting process, talking to 
close friends who, Fogg says, are 
"good people, with motivation." 


Most of the core members already 
knew each other from a pool of friends 
self-described as having good judgment of 
character and the right goals in mind. The 
first meetings, held in restaurants, 
students' rooms, and the Berkeley College 
Swiss Room, informed the invited few 
about Fence, and put plans on the table to 
form a statement of intent. 


With wood paneling and low ceilings, 
the Swiss Room captures the Old Blue 
aura of the emerging Fence club. At the 
first official meeting, each guest received a 
commitment form. Fogg, designated 
president of the emerging club, sat at the 
end of the long table, flanked by a few 
core members. The group sought to form 
a committee of 20 students-ten men and 
ten women-willing to do the legwork 
and planning required to organize a club 
from scratch, and who shared their vision. 


At the end of the meeting, the men and 
women present were asked to sign a form 
pledging their service to the reincarnation 
of the club and committing $200 each. 


The original group of six felt that more 
energy would be put into the organization 
if members had a financial stake. With the 
sense of an important adventure, the 
commitment form ended with the "Let us 
now dispense with the, 'I hope we can ... ,' 
'Maybe we'll be able to ... ,' and, 'Wouldn't 
it be nice if.. .. ' It is now time for the, 'We 
need ... ; 'We will ... ,' and 'We can ... !"' Not 
everyone signed. 


The club then focused on financial 
concerns and the house. The group 
consulted a lawyer and hired a broker to 
search for a house, still the major priority. 
The group decided to form a Trumbull 
Trust modeled after the old Fence Club's. 
Dues and alumni donations would be 
placed in the account and overseen by a 
group of alumni trustees. 


Despite initial efforts, only five of the 
final 20 steering committee members are 
women, and two of them were not invited 
until a few weeks later, when the Steering 
Committee attempted for a second time to 


--- Page 11 ---

attract females. Of the final 20 on the 
Committee, four had fathers in the old 
Fence. 


The club continued to aim to reclaim a 
part of the past, a past that involved the 
camaraderie and community that Fence 
members felt had disappeared from Yale. 
Graham Boettcher (PC '95) began to 
search the archives for articles on the old 
Fence. Yet after the steering committee was 
formed and the members began to 
approach more students and spread the 
word that they were restarting the club, 
the group realized that in contemporary 
Yale they were less likely to draw the 
individuals they wanted if they relied 
merely on tradition. 


By the time the first statement of 
interest appeared, the generalizations of 
"common goals" and "having fun" had 
grown into a concrete vision. Their new 
statement began: "Fence shall be a group 
of women and men made up of individuals 
of differing backgrounds who shall come 
together to create and to cement 
friendships that might not otherwise be 
made. Fence offers a social opportunity at 
Yale for individuals to gather together 
across lines demarcated by other 
extracurricular circles that might not 
otherwise be crossed. Thus, Fence shall 
create a relaxed, non-university, social 
environment." 


The group also intends to get involved 
in community service projects. Both 
Levinson and Fogg had participated in 
highly structured community service 
groups in high school. They hope that the 
club will attract individuals willing to get 
involved in the community, given the right 
opportunity. As Fogg envisions: "I believe 
that community service is about showing 
up, about being there for the community, 
not just one time, but all the time in 
general. I believe we can make both a 
group effort and an individual one. In 
other words, let's make it clear to people 
that community service is something that 
should be incorporated into everyone's 
lifestyle, in some form or another, and that 
the Fence club is a club that supports that 
view." 


DECEMBER 2, 1994 

**Title: Does the world-famous School of Drama see cooperation with undergraduate theater as The Next Stage?**
**Author: Robt•D Kemper**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Does the world-famous School of Drama see cooperation with 
undergraduate theater as 
The Next Stage? 
I
n the office of Stan Wojewodski (pronounced Voya-VUD-ski), 
Dean of the Yale School of Drama, hangs a framed needlepoint 
sign with rhe Bantu phrase, "A person is a person because of 
orher persons." The greeting conveys a 
sense of the community which the drama 
school faculty and students hail as one of 
the finer points of their institution. But 
gaining entrance into the community 
requires, in the single word of Associate 
Dean Earl Gister, "Talenr." Wojewodski 
adds, "We look for talenr, passion, and 
intelligence." Only accepting 67 srudenrs 
out of last year's applicant pool of l, 164, 
the Yale Drama School boasrs a gifted dire 
whose alums include Meryl Streep and 
Henry Winkler. 

The undergraduate community also 
harbors great theater. James DePaul, the 
director of undergraduate studies for the 
rheater studies departmenr, esrimares he saw 
67 student productions lasr year; he missed 
at least 20. "They're enthusiastic and 
inspiring," 
DePaul 
says 
of 
the 
undergraduate dramatists. Acting instructor 
Bill Walters attests, "They're extremely 
intelligent and really capable." Their talents 
create one of the 
most vibrant 
undergraduate theater scenes in the country. , 
Despire the quality and virality of both 
theater communities, surprisingly lirrle 
interaction occurs berween them. As actor Max Chalawasky (DRA 
'96) admirs, "The Drama School is a litde world unto irself." This 
lofry and rarefied world firsr came inro exisrence in 1924 as the 
simple Deparrmenr of Drama at the School of Fine Arts. Students 
registered in rhe fall of 1925, and the first Masrer of Fine Arts in 
Drama was conferred in 1931. In 1955, rhe Yale Corporarion 
reorganized the depanmenr as a separare professional school offering 
both a master's degree and a docroral degree. The school founded the 
Yale Repenory Theatre in 1967 to enhance srudenr 
The drama school course catalog derails a list of priorities for 
students: "(I) Yale Repertory Theatre; (2) classes; (3) major 
productions of the Yale School of Drama." The primacy of the Rep 
rheater. 

may surprise more academically focused 
undergraduates. Elizabeth Cohen (DRA 
'95) explains: "The school has an intricate, 
symbiotic relationship ro rhe Rep." Ray 
Inkel (DRA '95) describes rhe Rep in less 
philosophical rerms: "They've made an old 
church inro a rremendous place ro learn." 
The Rep, a member of rhe professional 
League of Residence Thearres, gives 
srudenrs in all disciplines of rhe school rhe 
opporruniry ro collaborare wirh fellow 
srudenrs, 
professors, 
and 
rhearer 
professionals on six full-lengrh producrions 
annually. By the end of rheir rhree years, all 
srudenr direcrors have assisrant directed -.; 
Rep shows, all srudenr stage managers have 
~ 
assistant stage managed Rep shows, all ~ 
technical design and production (TD&P) ~ 
scudenrs have been rechnicians on Rep ·"' 
shows, and all dramarurgy srudenrs have ~ 
wrirren about Rep shows; many acting ~ 
srudenrs even acr in Rep shows. In rhe ~ 
words of Joyce Friedmann, press and 'i 
publications Director for the Rep and rhe 6 
Drama School, "The Rep is a kind of 1l 
teaching hospital," a forum for practical ~ 
learning about aJI aspecrs of professional f 
The School's emphasis on practical rraining, both ar the Rep and 
in School producrions, makes for grueling schedules. Srudenrs 
rypically have classes from 9 a.m. ro 2 p.m. and rehearsal from 2:30 
p.m. to II p.m., rhough rehearsals often run until 1 a.m. Catherine 
Mardis (DRA '98), a firsr year srudenr who began working on a 
producrion a couple of weeks into rhe semester, describes her 
commitmenr ro the Drama School in Faustian terms. ''I've sold my 
soul ro Yale for rhree years." Chalawasky is even 
more blunr: "Ir's hell." But few studenrs would be 
willing ro give up rhe rremendous production 
training through rhe experience of working in a professional rhearer. 
experience for a little more sleep. 

Chalawasky feels that the Rep's hectic 
schedule forges internal strength: "You find 
resources inside yourself and you gain self-
confidence." 

The rigors of the program often require 
moments of release. When asked about 
drama student social life, actor Trevor 
Anthony (ORA '95) jokes, "I didn't know I 
had a life." Drama students hang out-
almost exclusively with other drama 
students-at Kavanaugh's, the Cabaret, and 
monthly all-school parties. "We throw a 
wild party when we want to," says director 
Derek Jones (ORA '95). "First year you go 
crazy; second year you reign it in; and third 
year you know when to drink and when not 
to. , 

Jones adds, however, that the 
raucousness of drama student life is 
countered by a tendency to become 
"hermetic."· Students consistently lament 
their isolat-ion from the rest of Yale, 
especially with respect to the undergraduate 
theater community. Most students view the 
·separation as a product of their hectic 
schedules. Others see it as a result of the 
school's exclusive claim on their talents and 
time. The course book spells this out: 
"Acting in projects outside the School is 
discouraged and permission to do so is 
rarely given." Such restrictions, whether 
explicit or implicit, extend to many other 
drama school departments. 

Cooperative efforts between the Drama 
School and the undergraduate theater 
community occur only rarely. Last year 
witnessed playwright Karen Ackerman's 
collaboration with three seniors in a 
Silliman D ramatic Attic production. In 
addition, Alessandro Nivola (BK '94) was 
cast in two Drama School productions. Such 
undergraduate involvement can be beneficial 
for both parties-the school receives needed 
help, and the undergraduate gains 
knowledge. Miriam Crowe (CC '96) served 
as assistant light designer for a Rep show last 
spring. "It was great experience," says 
Crowe, "because the show was bigger, more 
organized, and more professional than the 
other shows I've worked on." She also 
gained technical knowledge that she could 


not have received in an undergraduate show. 
But Crowe's experience remains quite 
unusual. Few undergrads work on school 
productions and even those few who do 
participate only in a limited technical 
capacity. And if you ask most of the 
undergraduates involved in theater about 
the Drama School, they will confess that 
they do not know much about it. Most have 
never met anyone who goes there. 

Such ignorance reflects both the Drama 
School's insularity and the undergraduate 
theater communiry's self-sufficiency. Almost 
all undergraduate shows are run exclusively 
by undergraduates with financial support 
from residential colleges and the Sudler 
Fund. Although a core group of the 
theatrically involved exists, the productions 
attract a diverse cross-section of the 
undergrad population, as well as a wide 
variery of theatrical experience and academic 
interests. Productions exist independently of 
the theater studies major, and theater studies 
faculty members do not advise undergrad 
productions outside of senior projects for 
the major. 

The Drama School shares space with the 
Yale Dramatic Association, the major 
undergraduate theater organization. When 
the school was constructed in the 1930s, the 
Dramat paid for 30 percent of the building 
cost. In exchange, the Dramat secured a 
meeting space in the school and access to 
the school theater space for productions 
nine times per year. Relations between the 
Dramat and the Drama School have 
fluctuated. A close alliance before World 
War II gave way to hos.tility in the late 
1960s. Relations are strong today, thanks in 
pan to an agreement signed five years ago 
that articulated both groups' responsibilities 
in sharing school space. Yet the Dramat and 
the Drama School continue to function as 
completely separate entities. Although the 
Dramat's 
technical 
advisor, 
Mark 
MacDonald, is a school faculty member, 
little contact between graduate and 
undergraduate students occurs. School 
students occasionally work as designers for 
Dramat productions, but such work is often 
discouraged by school administrators. 
Rasmus Johansen {BR '95), former secretary


of the Dramat, characterizes the interaction 
between the Dramat and the school as 
"tiny." But Dramat President Nicholas de 
Moncheaux (CC '95) suggests that the scene 
may be changing. "The barriers of ignorance 
are slowly breaking down." 

The possibiliry for collaborative projects 
lies mainly in the Cabaret. Founded in 
1968, the Cabaret, an extension of the 
Drama School, focuses on innovative 
performances unsupervised by faculty. The 
Cabaret hires undergraduates as waiters and 
currently has 221 undergrad members who 
subscribe to all twenty shows. J .] . Hickey 
(ORA '95), a theater management student 
who serves as artistic director of the Cabaret, 
suggests the possibility of a benefit Cabaret 
in which undergraduate actors can 
participate. "We do feel isolated from the 
Yale community," he admits, "but we're 
always looking for ways to be more 
involved," he says. 

Another realm of increased undergrad 
interaction with the school's faculty and 
students is the classroom. Several classes in 
the design, dramaturgy and dramatic 
criticism, 
TD&P, 
theater 
management departments are open to 
undergraduates; courses in acting, 
directing, and playwriting are not. Last 
year Shannon Emmerick (PC '95) was 
one of rwo undergrads who took Drama 
6, Survey of Theater and Drama; her 
freshman year, she took Theater Studies 
I1 0, which covers much of the same 
material. "It was completely different 
from IIO," she asserts. "The drama 
students have so much to bring to 
class. They're not afraid to speak 
up and be passionate, even if 
they just want to say a play is 
boring." She is now enrolled 
in the school's American 
Theater Practice course. 

Graduate students 
v1ew 
classes 
with 
undergraduates as a 
positive experience. · 
Designer Daphne 
Klein (ORA '95) 
recently rook a 
costume class 
that included undergraduates. "The 
undergrads seemed to get a lot out of it," she 
notes. "And I learned from them-they had 
no preconceived notions about the theater, 
so their ideas were very exciting." 

For the first time this year, the Drama 
studies department are teaching Drama 6 
and Theater Studies II 0 to a joint audience. 
After a 50-minute lecture, the rwo groups 
separate and have discussion sections on 
alternate mornings. The professor, Marc 
Robinson, has an appointment in both 
programs. Still the classroom provides one 
of the few places where graduate students 
and undergraduates can forge friendships; 
Emmerick still keeps in contact with the 
drama students she met last year in Drama 
6, and they try to see each other's 
productions. 

Drama School Dean Stan Wojewodski


**Yale Drama and Theater Studies**
**Author: Robin Kmzper**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

Extract ARTICLE CONTENT:
Some see the dual teaching effort of 
Drama 6/Theater Studies 110 as indicative 
of the two programs' attempts to work more 
closely together. The faculty of both schools 
have established a dialogue; in addition to 
Marc Robinson's dual appointment, James 
DePaul attends Earl Gister's acting classes, 
and Drama School faculty give guest lectures 
to undergraduates. "There are great and 
enlightening teachers at the Drama School," 
says DePaul, "and I hope our students look 
to them as role models." But DePaul is 
quick to point out the differing philosophies 
of the two programs: "Theater Studies 
strives to combine theater stuqy with the 
breadth and depth of a liberal arts 
education. The Drama School has the 
specific agenda to focus on technique and 
process." Dean Wojewodski sounds even 
firmer on the topic: "The relationship 
between the two is certainly cordial, but 
they must work indepeQdendy because of 
the nature of the schools." But Wojewodski 
suggests that there may be a path from 
theater studies to the drama school. "The 
theater studies focus on liberal arts is good 
preparation for Drama School. It produces 
richer, more informed students than ones 
that focus strictly on theater practice." 
Obi Ndefo (BR '94, ORA '97) 
exemplifies the link between theater studies 
and the Drama School. He regards the 
theater studies program as fine preparation 
for the Drama School, though he admits 
that he knew little about the Drama School 
before he began the application process. 
"The Rep is a kind of 
teaching hospital," a 
forum for practical 
learning about all 
aspects of 
professional theater. 

Ndefo would now like to see more 
interaction between the two communities he 
holds in high regard. But he, like other 
Drama School students, wonders how to 
combine the two programs. As Anthony 
asserts, "It's hard to bring undergrads who 
are mainly doing theater for the fun of it to 
a ·program where we're processing our butts 
off." 

Acting student Chalawasky proposes a 
complex, but intriguing, solution: a joint 
program which targets both groups' needs 
by providing a B.F.A. for undergraduates 
and an M.A. for graduate students. 
Although the classes would be separate, the 
physical union of the schools would foster 
more of a coherent theater community, 
co~bining the passion, talent, and 
inteUigence of botli groups. "Both programs 
need to get to the next place," Chalawasky 
points out, and the pooling of resources and 
energies could provide the right boost to this 
next place. Less drastic student p roposals 
include allowing more drama students to 
serve as teaching assistants and creating joint 
workshops and collaborative projects 
between the two schools. 

Currently, no plans exist for melding 
the two programs. But after seeing 
playwright 
Ackerman's 
successful 
collaboration with undergraduates last year, 
Mark Bly, Associate Artistic Director of the 
Yale Repertory Theatre and Drama School 
instructor, seems intrigued by the 
possibilities. "I see a very talented group in 
Yale College that we'd be interested in 
working with," he says. Associate Dean 
Gister sounds a similar tone: "We are 
constantly looking for ways for our students 
and those undergraduates who are similarly 
interested and motivated to function more 
harmoniously. The t~o groups have 
different levels of experience," he notes, "but 
they do ultimately share the same 
experience." As Gister hin ts, a new 
collaborative effort may be waiting in the 
wings. 

Robin Kmzper is a smior in Branford Colkge. 
DECEMBER 2, 1994 


**Downtown Health & Racquet Club Advertisement**
**Page number(s): 17**

THANKS!!! 
•Caroline Rollins 
•Jules Prown 
• Marie Weltzien 
• Helen Cooper 
• Michael Gerber 
•Nancy and Curt Civin 
•Yale University Art Gallery 
•Sara Kaplan 
• Anne Harkavy 
•Julie Welch 
• Donnan Steele 
can 11 strength or ClOUt. 
It's the image of Self-confidence you project when )UlC body Is in shape. 
In New HaYen, the place to &et In sbape Is the Downtown Health & 
Racquet Oub. neat your body to a 5 ,000 square fbot F'llntss Center, six racCJ.Ietball 
courts. 1 ,500 square foot cardiovascular area. Aaobic room 
with flex-action Door~ and so much more in a bril-
liantly designed. electric atmosphere. 
~inVite you to come 8ex your urban nmsde at the 
DowntoWn Health & Racquet Club. 
Student Specials. 
Call for details. 
Health & Racquet Club 
Two blocl<s lrom 1M r.ew- Green. 


**Burying the Old Colonel**
**Author: Joshua Civin**
**Page number(s): 18**

Don't expect any help getting there. The guards at the Yale 
University Art Gallery are not very cooperative, to say the 
least. The best way to find it may be to come upon it 
·accidentally. Glimpse a three-cornered hat around a 
winding gallery corridor and investigate. At the far end of the third 
floor-past the Neptune statue and the furniture exhibits-the 
Trumbull Gallery conjures up a vintage nineteenth-century museum. 
Plush red walls and creaking pine floors house statuary, potted 
plants, and canvases in gilded frames. 

The framed pictures only come into focus once the feel of the 
Trumbull Gallery seeps in. But don't rush the transformation. 
Wandering around art galleries, like hunting treasure, always 
promises one more masterpiece tucked in one more dusty corner. On 
the rear wall of this third-floor room lies a thrill among tucked-away 
masterpieces. Hanging in symmetrical rows, The Declaration of 
Independence, The Battle of Bunker's Hi/~ The Surrender at Yorktown, 
and the rest of these patriotically over-exposed images glow intensely 
despite their cracked oil paint. Don't be overwhelmed by the sheer 
bulk of Americana. Nose right up and point to the familiar founding 
fathers portrayed in Colonel John Trumbull's American 
Revolutionary War paintings. 

Make sure not to miss the rear wall, center. Experiencing the 
signing, battles, and surrenders requires peering closely, but standing 
back is the only way to appreciate this strong vertical. In Trumbull's 
92V2 by 63 inch portrait, vivid patches of Continental blue and 
faded-breeches yellow define the uniform of His Excellency, 
sometime General George Washington. With distant eyes, the 
General beckons. Out-stretched hand clutches field-glasses. Forget 
the copies in the U.S. Capitol Rotunda, the General implores: here 
are the originals. Forget 
Williamsburg and Disney-
land: step into history. 
Roxbury, Massachusetts, after 
3p.m.:]uly 17, 1775. 

Booming cannon shot 
puffed overhead. Back 
over the stone fence, 
retreat had been signaled. A 
soldier crumpled and cried 
out, "I've been killed." 
Kneeling down to support 
him, the adjutant to General 
Spencer's First Connecticut 
inspected 
the 
groaning 
Continental. No, he couldn't 
be dying, reasoned John Trumbull-for that was the adjutant's name. 
There was no blood. He bade the man rise. But the fallen soldier 
would not budge. Trumbull-no expert himself, as this was his first 
skirmish ever-
called for a stretcher. He promptly returned to 
supervising the rear of the regiment as it abandoned its exposed 
position. 

Their maneuver had only been a diversion. No use wasting 
bodies; the real struggle was four miles away, or a,r least it appeared 
that way from what Trumbull could make out with his field glasses. 
He peered through the gunpowder haze that covered the distant hill 
across Boston harbor. Parches of color betrayed the enemy-
charging, retreating, and rallying again. But as Trumbull squinted, he 
could not prevent his one good eye from blending the distant battle's 
Continental blue, faded-breeches yellow, and redcoat scarlet into a 
shape that bore an unavoidable resemblance to that fallen soldier. 

Ever since the warship Somerset's guns sounded daybreak, 
. Trumbull had spent hours in rapt fascination along with the rest of 
the regiment's ·:piquet-guard." Placed on alert, the entire minuteman 
army gazed toward that distant summit. Like the others-called Sons 
of Liberty this side of the fortifications, traitorous rebels on the 
other-Trumbull and his regiment had only recently arrived. 
Pitching camp in Roxbury, they had joined the swelling ring of Sons 
of Liberty surrounding H is Majesty's forces quartered in Boston. 
Tired of merely taunting redcoats, Trumbull looked over to the 
blazing hill, yearning to play a part in provolcing the British to sally 
forth from fortress Bosron. 

Then the orders had passed down the ranks: form up and parade. 
The British cannoneers responded co these colonial displays shortly. 
Less than eager to precipitate an engagement on another flank, 
Spencer's regiment retreated 
and saw no further action. It 
was not until far into the night 
that Adjutant Trumbull 
discovered that the little hill in 
his field glasses was known as 
Bunker's (or Breed's) Hill, and 
that on its summit, 
a 
detachment of the Sons of 
Liberty had resisted three 
British 
charges 
before 
succumbing-a moral victory 
against seasoned professionals. 
But while fellow Sons of 
Liberty proved themselves in 
fierce hand-to-hand fighting 
on that day, Trumbull's 
regiment had watched the

The framed pictures only come into focus once the feel of 
the Trumbull Gallery of the Yale University Art Gallery seeps 
in. But don't rush the transformation. 



**Title: The Patriot-Artist**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
encounter four miles away 
without incident. Without 
incident, except for one lobbed 
cannonball that hit its mark. 
That cannonball imprinted the 
shape of groaning death-
tinged with Continental blue, 
faded-breeches yellow, and 
redcoat scarlet--{)n the novice 
soldier Trumbull's memories of 
Bunker's Hill. 
Bmjamin 
Wtsts Studios, 
London, b1gland: winur. 1786. 
((Nature has but 
t 
h r e e 
primitive 
Colours, Yellow, Red & Blue, 
from which all others arise by 
composition." Reciting the 
lessons of his teacher, the well-renowned Benjamin West, 
Colonel Trumbull laid out the 
pigments on his wooden 
palette. Except he omitted 
blue; he never started out with 
pure blue. Palette in one hand, 
hog's hair brush-which he 
referred to as his pencil-in 
the other, he surveyed the half-
finished canvas. His eyes 
roamed over the year-old 
sketches strewn about his easel. 
He always felt he had started 
painting so late 
in life. 
On 
the 
George Washington at the Battle of Trento 
by John Trumbull. Yale University Art 
Gallery; [Right] Self-Portrait, by John 
Trumbull; [Below left] Yale art historian 
and Trumbull chronicler Theodore Sizer. 
canvas, 
Bunker's 
Hi II 
sloped 
in the 
foreground 
if 
rumbull's 
eld glasses on 
that day 11 years 
ago had gained exceptional 
powers of resolution. Such 
placement, 
thought 
Colonel-for that was his rank 
when he left soldiering-
allowed him to wrestle with the 
most significant image he 
remembered from his first 
,§ 
skirmish-the 
shape 
of 
~ 
groaning death in Continental 
£ 
blue, faded-breeches yellow, 
o 
:;; 
and redcoat scarlet. But still 
u 
>. 
something was lacking. 
Save an hour for dinner, 
and some time studying ,g 
anatomy in the morning, 
Trumbull spent all his days at 
West's studio on Newman 
Sueet. Obsessively he sketched, 
always preparing. Inspiration ~ ~ 
lined the walls, for the English : ~ 
art world had crowned West its 
finest history painter. And to 
cover canvases with history was - ~ 
the task to which Trumbull J 
aspired. 
< 
This 
was 
Trumbull's 
second stay in England. While 
the Revolution was still raging, 
he crossed the ocean to reach : ~ 
London, West, and his artistic - ~ 
future. For Colonel Trumbull, 
>-
soldiering was but a diversion. He had set aside the art books from 
;; 
his Harvard years to make himself the worthy gentleman that his 
8 
prominent Connecticut family expected. But passed over for - ~ 
promotion, he found himself with an honorable excuse to tum from 
f 
sword to pencil. Just after he reached London, though, a pounding at. 


---

the door summoned him to prison. Suspected of treason, the 
Colonel was deported.



As soon as the peace treaty was sealed, 
Trumbull went against his venerable father's 
wishes and found his way back to art, to 
West, and to London. But standing in front 
of the splotched canvas, Trumbull could 
hardly denounce the earlier adventures his 
father had forced on him. Before his eyes, 
the colonies had transformed into an 
indep.endent nation. He had been there 
while it happened, even served as an aide-
de-camp to his idol General Washington. 
The upper echelons of American, and even 
European, society were his domains by 
birth, by military distinction, and by his 
privileged position as an emerging painter 
under the tutelage ofWest. 



Still, what was to be his life work? West, 
with one painting- Th~ Death of General 
Wolft, had catapulted himself to fame. 
Departing from classical material, West had 
shocked the cultured classes by depicting a 
modern event: the tragic death of General 
James Wolfe just as a messenger announced 
the British victorious outside Quebec. 
West's work, though, could only be 
copied so many times. With West's and 
Thomas Jefferson's encouragement, 
Trumbull hit upon a plan. He wrote to a 
friend: "I am now ... employ'd writing, in my 
language, the History of our Country." His 
own language was painting, and he resolyed 
to preserve the scenes he had witnessed. 
But 11 years was a long time. Trumbull 
probed his memories, recalling the terrain 
and the faces which contributed to the 
young nation's founding moments. To 
commence what he envisioned as a grand 
series of Revolutionary War engravings, he 
chose that first encounter with death on that 
memorable day of the Battle of Bunker's 
Hill. 



His paintings were hardly eyewitness 
accounts. Trumbull searched for the battle's 
central drama. Ever emulating West's D~ath 
of Gen~rai Wolft, the Colonel knew he 
needed a glorious martyr. Dr. Joseph 
Warren, President of the Massachusetts 
General Assembly, was the logical choice. 
Despite protests that a leading patriot was 
too valuable to endanger, Warren insisted on 
staying on the hill. As the British overran 
the summit, a bullet slammed into Warren's 
head. 



A dead unknown 
soldier, a dead patriot 
leader-as Trumbull 
sketched they meshed 
into one transcendent 
image on the canvas. 
Through 
his 
own 
experience, Trumbull 
penetrated the action on 
Bunker's Hill. History 
sprang from the pallet-
tinged with Continental 
blue, faded-breeches 
yellow, and redcoat 
scarlet. 
Still something was 
lacking. No amount of 
squinting could capture 
the actual likeness of the 
personages of this event. 
Trumbull realized he 
would have to hunt 
down as many of the 
participants as possible 
On the canvas, Bunker's HHI sloped in the fo 
go had gained exceptional powers of resolu 
to balance his historical drama with some 
degree of historical accuracy. 



So Colonel Trumbull rolled up the 
rough versions of the major historical works. 
He left West's studio and set off to persuade 
those he knew, had known, or could meet, 
to pose so he could fiJI in the oval spots left 
blank in anticipation of facial portraits. 
Obtaining an interview, he did not waste 
time sketching. While Alexander Hamilton 
or Sam Adams sat, Trumbull found the 
proper oval, picked up his pallet, and 
commenced. Even Washington was 
impressed. In a letter to Lafayette, he 
commented, "Trumbull has spared no pains 
in obtaining from life the likenesses of those 
characters who had a conspicuous part in 
our revolution." 



From country to country he pursued his 
subjects. Each person who sat for him, Trumbull 
persuaded to recall the events in which he or she 
starred, thus annotating his version of these 
moments. Remembering how Washington 
recalled the Battle of Trenton as he posed, 
Trumbull wrote in his A.utobWgraphy. "He looked 
the scene again, and I happily tranSferred it ro 
canvas, the lofty expression of his animated 
countenance, the high resolve to oonquer or ro 
perish." 



For Trumbull, the same lofty expression 
crossed his animated countenance as he 
painted. Fame would be his, he insisted. Hel 
would be the painter of the American 
Revolution. 
Trumbull Gallery Construction Site, N~lf 
Haven, Connecticut: 1831. 
hose eminent patriots, would futurt 
generations 
preserve 
their 
remembrance? Despite the little 
gallery rising before his eyes, the Colond 
had reason for concern. To Trumbull's great 
distress, the American Revolution had 
ceased to fascinate the public by the time be 
finished casting about for portraits co 
complete his historical series. Ne\1' 
revolutions in France had stifled memorid 
of events now almost a half-century pas! 
The result had been a financial disaster. 
Faced with growing debts, Trumbu1 
confined himself to his studio, bitte 
despondent. Younger artists seemed to ste. 
all the painting commissions. And wher 
Trumbull installed large-scale reproduction 
of his history series in the Rotunda of rJ. 
new Capitol building in Washington, m~ 
agreed that they lacked the liveliness of rbc .



originals. Humidity necessitated temporary 
removal of the huge canvases; bur few in the 
rapidly expanding democracy much 
concerned themselves with how to enshrine 
the past. 



Hoping to secure his legacy, Trumbull 
set about to find a home for what remained 
in his possession, the history series 
originals-the paintings that had traversed 
the globe with Trumbull, seeking a cast of 
characters. He sensed a sympathetic soul in 
his nephew-in-law, Benjamin Silliman, Yale 
professor of chemistry, whom he regaled 
with tales of his woes and made an offer of 
his paintings. Silliman and then Yale 
College President Jeremiah Day could not 
refuse. Yale committed to a $1,000 per year 
pension for the debt-ridden painter. Failure 
to pay it, Trumbull threatened, would 
prompt him to transfer the works to his 
alma mater Harvard. Trumbull moved in 
with the Sillimans and designed a neo-
classical gallery to house his collection. 



And now that he claimed the title of 
oldest surviving Revolutionary headquarters 
officer, he could afford to saunter over to 
watch the gallery construction, confident 
that Yale students would point when his 
erect figure swept by and say, "There goes 
DECEMBER 2, 1994 
old 
Colonel." 



Touching up The Battle 
of Bunker's Hill for the 
new gallery, Trumbull 
resigned himself to face 
the shape of groaning 
death-tinged 
in 
whatever colors-when 
it came for him. Leaning 
on his maulstick-a 
convenient arm-rest for 
the aged painter-much 
as Washington leaned on 
his walking stick in one 
of his portraits, Colonel 
Trumbull felt confident 
of his own place in 
history. This gallery 
would guarantee that. 
No matter what they 
said about his painting, 
future 
would not be able to 
remember Bunker's Hill 
without turning towards his paintings 
tucked in the little gallery. In spite of them 
aJI, he had become the Patriot-Artist, the 
painter of the American Revolution. 
Strut Hall Gallery of Fine Arts, Yale 
University. New Haven, Connecticut : April 
1J, 1928. 



C
reaking shovels scraped against the 
ust-uncovered brick tomb. Steady, 
now. Raise the mahogany coffin 
slowly. The old Colonel Trumbull did not 
appreciate disturbing. Kneeling down for a 
better view, Theodore Sizer-recenrly 
appointed associate director of the Yale 
Gallery of Fine Arrs, inspected the coffin's 
shape. Were those bones he glimpsed 
through a crack? He quickly turned away. 
The grave had been long in the finding: 
no one had thought to note down irs exact 
position for posterity. Berween Vanderbilt 
HaJI and Street Hall (built in 1866 to house 
Yale's growing art collection), they had 
excavated a huge hole without much success 
in finding the bodies of Trumbull and his 
wife. Then someone suggested they try 
inside. Sizer supervised, as the "little 
company" abandoned the exposed hole and 
retreated into the basement of the building. 



Ha!-As he surveyed the solemn parade 
of dignitaries, Sizer suppressed a grin under 
his black mustache and felt fedora. The old 
Colonel had them yet. Digging for the 
Colonel was a ceremony that absolutely had 
to be fulfilled before the college art 
collections could be transferred from the 
Street Hall building to the new museum 
being constructed across High Street. Sizer 
loved the stares as he led his audience along 
the path to TrumbuiJ's bones. It all stemmed 
back to a troublesome promise John 
Trumbull had exacted from Benjamin 
Silliman and Jeremiah Day when the 
historical pictures were installed at Yale in 
the little neo-classical gallery that once stood 
on the Old Campus. 



A connoisseur of tales, Sizer never 
missed a chance to recount this bizarre 
encounter. "The tragedy of the bilingual, 
one-eyed soldier-turned-painter was that 
most of his good work was produced before 
he was forty and he lived to be eighty-
eight." Sizer spoke, as he wrote, in 
flourishes. After finding his art a final resting 
place at Yale, Trumbull ensured one for 
himself and his wife. "It is my wish," 
Trumbull told Silliman, "to be interred 
beneath this Gallery ... these pictures are my 
children-those whom they represent have 
all gone before me." Part of the agreement 
drawn up by the college required that the 
bodies of Trumbull and his wife be buried 
beneath the gaJlery. 



"Some centuries hence," Sizer quoted 
from Silliman's journal, "when the firm 
scones of the Trumbull Gallery have fallen, 
those who dig among the ruins will discover 
the tomb in the obscure crypt and will be 
warned not to violate it when they read the: 
inscription." 



But the Colonel trusted the succeeding 
generations less than his nephew-in-law 
Silliman. Remembering the: blows the: 
younger painters had dealt his reputation, he: 
inserted a clause in the agreement 
forbidding that his or his wife's bodies be 
moved from underneath the 92Y.z by 63 
inch portrait of George Washington at 
Trenton. 



And the: old Colonel's suspicions, Sizer 
explained to the assembled company, had 
ul 



**Book NOW for tbe holidays!**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Book NOW for 
tbe holidays! 
PARIS $199 
AMSTERDAM 
$149 
LoNDON 
$175 
PRAGUE 
$245 
TEL AVIV 
$349 
CASABLANCA 
DAKAR 
$429 
ToKYo 
$369 
Fares are each way based on 
a round trip purchase from 
New York. Student or 
Faculty ID may be required. 
Age restrictions may apply. 
Taxes & surcharges not 
included. Fares subject to 
change. 
320 Elm Street 
New Haven, CT 06511 
(203) 562-5335


**The Bones of Colonel John Trumbull**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

Sizer's signature 
proved well-founded. Only 34 
years after Trumbull built his 
Gallery, the Yale art collection had 
outgrown the existing space. 
Completed in 1866, Street Hall at 
the far corner of the Old Campus 
became the new college Art Building, and 
the trustees voted to remove the Trumbull 
bones from under the original gallery. 
As for the present search: once again 
there was a new art gallery under 
construction. That spring of 1928, the little 
company had assembled in Street Hall-
fulfilling the Colonel's explicit request, once 
more. They could not move the paintings 
again and leave the bones behind. The 1928 
"translation of the relics" -Sizer employed a 
Biblical allusion to heighten the drama-
occurred during spring recess to avoid 
feared student protests. 

And yet secrecy generated legends. "As 
they were carrying the very decreed coffin 
from one building to another and had got 
halfway across, the bottom fell out and out 
came John Trumbull!" wrote the Saturday 
Review of Literature. "Of course there was 
great consternation but the janitor of the 
school, a crabby old fellow named Enos, 
had a bright idea. He rushed out with a 
dustpan and broom and swept John 
Trumbull back into the coffin, which was 
turned upside down for the purpose. " 
Slander, Sizer cried, though he loved to 
include these inaccuracies in his story. 
According to him, not John's but Sarah's 
coffin gave way. Wh.atever the case, the 
bodies just barely made it across High Street 
to their new grave-site in Yale's third art 
gallery. 

And that's where we leave the old 
Colonel, Sizer concluded. But somehow, 
Sizer could never quite dismiss Trumbull as 
a mere story. The little company watched 
the body transfer without incident. Without 
incident, except for the small accident with 
Sarah-and the glimpse that Sizer caught of 
the remains of the old Colonel himself One 
glimpse imprinted the shape of groaning 
death on the new curator Sizer's memories 
of Trumbull. 
Davenport College, Yale University, New 
Havm, Connecticut: fa/~ 1948. 
E
ndless lists itemizing 
~ 
portraits, sketches, ;; 
and copies-~ 
2. 
researched, rough-drafted, 
annotated, and revised. 
Hand-scrawled notes, tentative short-tide 
check-lists, galley proofs, all lead to The g 
WOrks of Colonel john Trumbull· Artist of the a 
American Revolution-the comprehensive 
Trumbull canon-except even that would 
not be final. Information kept pouring in; 
there was always another forgery to expose 
and discredit. 

"Have you a portrait of an ancestor, 
painted by John Trumbull of revolutionary 
fame tucked away in your attic?" wrote Alice 
Lawton in the Newton Bee. "If so, Theodore 
Sizer at Yale University would greatly 
appreciate hearing from you." With much 
fanfare, Sizer issued a public appeal for 
details pertaining to the whereabouts of 
missing Trumbull paintings. And so the 
hunt began. 

On Sizer's roll-top desk, John Trumbull's 
self-vindicating Autobiography sprawled 
before him. He combed rhe pages for 
painting references. And he seldom missed 
the opportunity to editorialize. On page 246 
of the Autobiography, Sizer underlined a 
typical Trumbullian criticism: "President 
Jefferson ... no more qualified to lead in naval 
defense, than he was in warfare on land ... he 
possessed no military talents." With a 
characteristic flourish, Sizer scribbled beside 
it, "This 30 years after [Trumbull] left the 
army. What a crack!" 

Never one to absorb himself in one 
endeavor for too long, Sizer turned to dash 
off a note to his oldest daughter-an 
illustrated affair, gently poking fun at hi~ 
own mustache which his wife was forcing 
him to shave again. Pausing, he glanced over 
his white office walls. No pictures hung for 
inspiration, not even a Trumbull. Odd for 
an art professor, but it was not that he 
enjoyed a spartan office. He just liked art 
too much-"I don't care how, when, why, or 
where it is made." Sizer simply could not 
choose a single image to live with. 

Not even a Trumbull? He brushed off 
the old Colonel, matter-of-factly. "You 
know how one gets into these things." Ever 
since the reinternment early in his Yale


**A Visit to Trumbull's Tomb**
**Author: Joshua Civin**
**Page number(s): 24**

D 
on't expect any help getting there. It 
might be possible to stumble 
unawares 
upon 
Trumbull's 
paintings, but it rakes a keen detective to 
locate the other items he left to Yale, namely 
his bones and those of his wife Sarah. 

Bidding farewell to Washington and the rest, 
make sure to maintain a good sense of place 
while tripping down the stairway. Don't 
forget: Trumbull insisted that his bones lie 
directly beneath the 92~ by 63 inch portrait 
of beckoning George Washington at Trenton. 

The first piece of burial evidence: a 
sunken slab in the floor of the Grear 
Sculpture Hall of the older section of the 
gallery. The Sculpture Hall itself, though, 
appears unused, almost forgotten, certainly 
devoid of the wellspring of tourists 
inhabiting the newer wing. 

Bur discovering the slab does not mean 
reaching the final resting place. Don't be 
discouraged by the unfriendly guards-they 
have to remain silent for security reasons. 
Bur security or not, the evidence continues 
to surface: a stairway leads below. Check 
that no one is watching, and then plunge 
into the basement. The same Continental 
blue and faded-breeches yellow that painted 
Washington's military uniform adorns 
cobwebbed corridors. The Colonel would 
have appreciated that. Sir.ens have not yet 
sounded: relax and peer through the dusty 
haze. 

In one glass display case, a sarcophagus 
is ... No, it's empty. The bodies lie beyond. 
The only remnant: on one wall hangs what 
Sizer claimed was the original 1843 grave 
plaque. Two doors stand' on either side as 
sentinels. One smells of Trumbull Gallery 
pine. A minuscule key hole entices-and it 
has been too long a pilgrimage to resist 
temptation. Kneel down and squint within. 

If few visitors reach the far-off room where 
the Trumbull paintings lurk, much less find 
the black memorial slab-still, have faith: 
bones and galleries do not confine a Patriot-
Artist. As Trumbull hunted for portraits 
during his own life, as Sizer hunted 
paintings in his, their spirits now forever 
scour the Yale air for successors. George 
Washington beckons ... Trumbull guides his 
hand ... Sizer picks up the maulscick. Who's 
next? Step into history. 
Col. John Trumbull 
Patriot and Artist 
Friend and Aid 
of 
Washington, 
Lies Beside his Wife 
Beneath this Gallery of Art 
Lebanon 1756 
New York 1843 
To his Country he gave his 
Sword and his Pencil. 
joshua Civin, a junior in Calhoun Colkge, is 
contributing editor ofTNJ 



**Title: Won't You Be Our Neighbor?**
**Author: Ann Sledge**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Won't You Be Our Neighbor? 
President levin's bold new homebuyer program lures Yale employees to New 
Haven, but will it be enough to make them stay? 
P
rofessors, administrators, clerical and maintenance workers: if 
you are a Yale employee, you may be eligible for this one-time 
offer. All you have to do is buy a house in New Haven, and 
we'll give you $2,000 a year for the next ten years-no strings 
attached! But don't delay: offer expires January 1996. 
Essentially, President Levin made such a pitch when he ' 
announced Yale's New Haven Homebuyer Program on April 20, 
1994. So far, 79 employees have taken the President up on his offer. 
An accountant for 15 years in the medical school's department of 
neurology, Diane Steel had never before considered moving to New 
Haven, but the program allowed her to buy the perfect-sized house in 
a "nice" neighborhood. The incentive fit perfectly into Diane 
Robinson's plans. She had already applied for a mortgage for a· new 
house in New Haven when she discovered that her status as a 
university library service assistant entitled her to an unexpected 
benefit. The Homebuyer Program also turned administrative assistanr 
Brenda Carr from a tenant on Lawrence 
Street into a Fairhaven home owner. For 
dermatology administrator Jill Schneider, 
living close to work and downtown 
attractions opened up a whole new set of 
opportunities. 

Now that the program has been in 
place for over eight months, the stories of 
its beneficiaries do not fully mesh with 
Yale's original vision. When President 
Levin first spoke about the Homebuyer 
Program, he claimed that it would 
benefit both Yale employees and various 
New Haven communities and would 
further improve town-gown relations. 
"This is the first time that any Yale 
benefit program has been directed 
especially to employees residing in New 
Haven," he said. "We hope it will attract 
additional residents to the city who will 
be active in their neighborhoods and 
who will, of course, contribute as 
not necessarily ingredients for ensuring that these citizens become 
active neighbors. T he program projects an important image: it shows 
the university's commitment to providing employees with bonuses, 
and to involving them in the community; however, these noble goals 
threaten to generate an empty symbol- a program that does not 
actually effect any monumental change in Yale-New Haven relations. 

Sociology professor Paul Johnston stressed that in order to bridge the 
Yale-New Haven gap effectively, Yale employees who apply for home-
buying incentives should not simply move to New Haven but should 
invest in their new communities as well. 

Image is fundamental to selling homes. Barbara Pearce, director of 
a local realty company, stressed that the H omebuyer Program 
encourages people from outside the area who work at Yale to live in 
the city. "[The incentive] sends out the message that Yale cares where 
they live," she explained. The plan's popularity has increased as this 
message has spread. Everyone seems to be praising the program for its 
originality and the way it ties together 
benefits for Yale employees with benefits 
for New Haven. O ne employee, thankful 
fo r Yale's increased involvement in 
improving employee standards of living, 
admitted: "I really didn't think Yale cared 
about its employees that much." 

W:
ile the program seems to 
ccomplish a great deal, each 
f its benefits includes some 
sort of catch. Michael Boyle, Chief 
Steward for Local Unions 34 and 35, 
pointed out that the program may not 
target one group of people it is 
supposedly intended to help--namely, ] 
less wealthy employees who are first-time ~ 
or lower-cost home buyers. According to 
~ 
a press release, a University Task Force ::; 
convened by University Secretary Linda t: 
c: 
Lorimer chose the $2,000 flat-rate 
incentive because it intended to support ., 
lower-cost home buyers more. Proportio nally, 
c 
caxpayers and customers ro the economic health of 
the city." The program has brought new residents to 
New Haven, but a new house and the incentive are 
$2,000 comprises a larger fraction of the cost of a :r 
$50,000 house than that of a $150,000 house. -' 


--- Page 26 ---

-1 
Distribution of Yale Faculty Residences 
Furthermore, lower-cost home buyers are 
more likely to need an extra infusion of cash 
than wealthier buyers. The Yale Daily News 
reported last April that President Levin did 
not necessarily intend the program to 
relocate Yale families already seeded in the 
suburbs. Instead, Levin hoped to appeal to 
first-time home buyers, who tend to purchase 
in a lower price bracket. 

Despite the task force and Levin's 
intentions, statistics compiled by rhe 
Secretary's Office present a different story. 
Only nine participants bought real estate 
valued under $50,000, whereas 22 people 
bought houses worth over $150,000. 
Moreover, only 30 clerical, technical, service 
and maintenance employees received 
benefits, whereas 49 faculty and management 
professionals rook advantage of the incentive. 
This discrepancy stems from a restriction 
hidden in the text of the initiative. The 
program applies only to employees who work 
20 hours or more per week for the university. 
Since custodial workers typically bold 17-
hour weekly jobs, they remain ineligible for 
the program, though many of these workers 
actually do work for Yale far more than 20 
hours per week on a temporary basis. Chief 
Steward Boyle stressed the important role 
such incentives could play for these workers, 
most of whom now live in New Haven as 
tenams. The Homebuyer Program would 
allow them to purchase the homes in which 
they already live. Extending the program to 
these additional workers would provide 
much-needed stability to economically-
disadvamaged areas including Newhallville, 
the Hill, and Dixwell neighborhoods, where 
~ ~,.,i~~~~~~~~~ 
..._: ' 
y 
l) 
Distribution of Yale Clerical. and Technical Empl(l)lee Residences 
demographic maps show a concentration of 
service .and maintenance employees. As a 
result, perhaps the program would come 
closer to reaching one of the goals outlined 
by the University Task Force and President 
Levin: to benefic lower-cost home buyers. 

The current beneficiaries, though, come 
from the opposite end . of the income 
spectrum. Realtors rema~k that the program 
has affected wealthier home buyers who are 
looking at houses in areas on the edge of the 
city, such as the St. Ronan-Edgehill Road 
neighborhood, which spans New Haven and 
Hamden. According to Barbara Pearce, the 
incentive "makes people feel good about 
choosing" houses on the New Haven side of 
these areas, despite the much higher property 
tax on city housing. With the added 
monetary incentive, higher properry taxes 
become less of a deterrent. 

leviating property taxes in itself 
roves one of the program's biggest 
enefits. 

Before her move, 
university accountant Diane Steel lived in a 
West Haven condominium with her 
husband and two children. The family 
decided that their living space was too 
small, and Steel looked for a new house in 
the Hamden and North Haven area for 
about a year. Steel did not even consider 
moving to New Haven until she heard 
about the incentive. "I didn't want to live in 
New Haven; I really didn't," she declared. 
She explained that the incentive allows her 
to live in one of what she calls New Haven's 
"nicer areas," in a comfortable ten-room 
house, and afford the property tax. Her tax 
is, in effect, lowered from $3,600 to $1,600. 

Since most of the participants reinvest 
their incentive money in the city through 
property tax payments, the Homebuyer 
Program becomes another one of Yale's 
indirect subsidies co New Haven. One 
professor argued that the incentives could 
substitute for Yale's failure co pay fully irs own 
property _taxes. Currently, Yale does not pay 
taxes on most of its property, though 
Connecticut reimburses New Haven for a 
percentage of the income lost. 

The program should help New Haven's 
slumped real estate market by attracting more 
customers. Would as many Yale employees 
have moved to New Haven regardless of the 
program? Eighteen participants closed on 
their houses in August. Many closings 
occurred in May, June, and July as well. These 
figures are rypical, since the summer is always 
a popular time to buy a house. 

Although information on how many 
faculty and staff moved co New Haven during 
previous summers is not available for 
comparison, realtors claim they have seen an 
increase in New Haven sales since the 
incentive plan went into effect. Pearce said 
that last summer three people connected to 
Yale placed bids on a New Haven house that 
had been on the marker for two years. Yet 
some of the 79 participants would have 
bought houses in New Haven even without 
the incentive. Robinson had already applied 
for a mortgage when she found out about the 
program, so the extra $2,000 did not 
influence her decision to move. 

Here resurfaces Professor Johnston's point 
about bridging the Yale-New Haven gap by 
TH£ NEW JouRNAL 


--- Page 27 ---

encouraging as much employee involvement 
in the city as possible. Program participants, 
now new urban citizens, do not necessarily 
invest in facets of New Haven communities 
other than real estate. Fully involving Yale 
employees in long-term commitments co 
New Haven will necessitate university 
contribution to a more inclusive concept of 
city life chat includes improvements in 
public transportation and public education. 

Pearce and program participant Jill 
Schneider both mentioned that the 
Homebuyer Program could be expanded 
through public transportation subsidies. 
Pearce pointed out that people living in the 
city are more likely to ride the Yale Shuttle 
Bus. This change in commuting patterns 
frees up parking spaces and cuts down on 
pollution from fuel exhaust. Schneider 
strongly advocates implementing additional 
Yale programs to encourage employee 
involvement in New Haven. She stated, 
"The more you link Yale and New Haven, 
the more support each side will have from 
the other." 

Going further, Boyle suggests chat Yale 
extend the Homebuyer Program co include 
pan-time workers and people already living 
in New Haven. As a result, Yale employees 
might decide to remain in the city rather 
than move to the suburbs after the ten years 
have elapsed. Boyle cites a program at 
Stanford University as an example of 
providing enhanced benefits for people 
purchasing 
homes 
in 
less 
stable 
neighborhoods. Thus, the program could 
FAO.i '-tY 
effectively target those New Haven 
communities most in need of citizen 
involvement. 

Yale employees with children might be 
encouraged to stay in the city if improved 
educational opportunities became available. 
Pearce suggests that Yale provide private 
school vouchers for all children of 
Homebuyer Program participants. Professor 
Johnston refused to go as far in abandoning 
public education. He felt that Yale should 
review the kind of support families and 
educational institutions need in order for 
Yale employees to feel comfortable about 
sending their children to public school in 
New Haven. Johnston explained chat such 
actions constitute an important way for Yale 
employees to invest themselves in the 
community. 

Overall, the Homebuyer Program is a 
"good starr, a good piece of the puzzle," as 
Schneider stated. The intentions Yale 
advertised as part of the program are 
admirable: to increase Yale employee benefits 
and participation in the community. 
However, co benefit New Haven, these 
citizens must become loyal to their new 
communities, and invest more in the city 
where they live and work. Making New 
Haven more attractive to employees who 
already live in the city, and retaining chose 
newly-arrived, is just as important as 
attracting additional citizens. 

Ann Sledge is a freshperson in Ezra Stiles 
College. 


**Trailing Behind**
**Author: Kate Schuler**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
After years of contention and delay, pl ans to convert the Farmington Canal 
into a "linear" park are 
Trailing Behind 
T
he New Haven region stands ready to take advantage of 
innovations in American park design that promise to 
benefit urban communities. G rassroots efforts to 
transform the Farmington Canal, an abandoned railway, 
into a linear park greenway have been gaining momentum in New 
by Yale and downtown. 
Grassroots effom usually drive such "rails to trails" movements 
as they evolve with little leadership from government or parks 
officials. The Farmington Canal Rail to Trail Association (FCRTA) 
began in 1987 when a group of citizens in Hamden organized to 
oppose a plan to build a shopping mall in the town. They 
Haven since 1987. However, a 
quiet controversy surrounds the 
Farmington Canal project and 
questions remain about the 
extensive planning involved in 
developing a park running 
through both Connecticut's 
richest suburbs and poorest 
inner-ciry neighborhoods in New 
H aven. Questions persist because 
the city seems to be blindly 
moving forward in implementing 
t he trail-city officials are 
"Whoever pays the bill makes the 
decisions-aesthetic choices, 
programming, and use hours are 
then determined by a group of like-
minded individuals, often from the 
same socioeconomic group, whose 
vision narrowly defines the life in 
common; with this limitation, 
public space becomes less public" 
discovered that the proposed site 
for the mall rested on old railroad 
tracks, the Hamden portion of the 
old Farmingron Canal line. Nancy 
Alderman (FOR '98), member of 
. the group rallying against the 
shopping mall, current president 
of FCRTA, and now a first-year 
forestry student, believed that the 
possible historical significance of 
the railway could help stop the 
construction of the mall. She 
applying for funding from the 
federal government, yet the process of assessing the feasibiliry of the 
project and drawing up a plan has not begun. 
Planners wane to build the greenway on the site of the old 
Farmington Canal and rail bed, which runs 83 miles from New 
Haven to Northampton, Massachusetts. The canal, which opened 
in 1829, was transformed into a railroad in 1848. When floods 
irreparably damaged the tracks in 1982, the railway was 
abandoned. The path intersects New Haven for three miles, 
running from Cheshire to Hamden into Dixwell, Newhallville, 
Science Park, Yale (through Prospect, Hillhouse, and Church 
Streets), and down to the Audobon Arts Block and New Haven 
Harbor. 
The greenway concept has emerged in the last ten years as a 
response to both continued suburban sprawl and increased 
abandonment of railroad beds. The greenway aims to connect the 
suburbs and inner ciry neighborhoods with the resources and jobs 
concentrated in the central downtown area. In the New Haven 
area, the greenway would provide residents from the suburbs of 
H amden and Cheshire and from 
city 
sought help from the newly 
formed National Rails to Trails 
Conservancy, whose lawyer, Charles Montagne, helped sue the 
Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) for allowing the illegal 
abandonment of the railroad. A federal law required the ICC to 
offer the land to the Department of Transportation and the 
Department of Environmental Protection. After these agencies 
passed up the offer, the tract went to the governments of each town 
the trail ran through. FCRTA worked to lobby the city 
governments of Hamden and New Haven to convert t.he railway 
into a recreation trail. 
FCRTA made little headway on the trail project under the 
administrations of Mayors Biagio DiLieto and John Daniels. Mayor 
John DeStefano has supported the trail project by working with the 
Trust for Public Land to purchase the land from developers who 
acquired it during the DiLieto administration. The ciry finally 
purchased the canal land in December of 1993, with the intention 
of building the trail. City officials have begun work on a grant 
proposal co obtain federal funding for the construction of the trail, 
but FCTRA paved the way for the ciry to act and has no intention 
of relinquishing control of the project. 
neighborhoods like Dixwell and Newhallville easy 
access to jobs and the cultural resources provided 


Given the current financial problems and 
limited resources of cities, such private, non-profit 
1.8 
THE Nt:w JouRNAL 

sector involvement may be the only way for many parks to thrive. 
Diana Balmori, Yale professor of architecture and principal designer 
for Balmori Associates, points out in her essay "Park Redefinitions" 
that, "Whoever pays the bill makes the decisions-aesthetic 
choices, programming, and use hours are then determined by a 
group of like-minded individuals, often from the same 
socioeconomic group, whose vision narrowly defines the life in 
common; with this limitation, public space becomes less public." A 
glance at the list of the board members on FCRTA, who oversee the 
portion of the trail passing through New Haven County, shows that 
of the 22 members, seven reside in New Haven. The others come 
from the suburbs-exclusive areas in Woodbridge, Hamden, and 
North Haven. Since FCRTA has been the main lobbying and 
fundraising force, it will be its board's money and ideas that will 
shape the trail. 
FCRTA's brochure clearly spells out its utopian vision of "biking 
or hiking along a historic canal line, safely tucked away from traffic, 
passing through city and suburban neighborhoods, over old stone 
arch bridges. 
Considering the diversity of the areas the trail will run through, 
this vision seems unrealistic and na"ive. As FCRTA focuses its 
energies on implementing the linear park, it fails to address many of 
the issues that come with urban environments, such as safety. 
Members argue that increased traffic along the canal will force illicit 
activities to other areas. 
Tatum Nolan (DC '97), a trail proponent, researched studies 
that show crime rates have not significantly changed in areas where 
greenways were built. He cites repons by the Department of the 
Interior and the State Trail Planner of Colorado that show crime 
either decreases in areas with trails or remains steady. However, 
Nolan said the Farmington Canal "is unique because it joins poor 
neighborhoods to very wealthy neighborhoods. All of the reports 
done so far are for suburban trails." A study done by the Trust for 
Public Land (TPL) offers statistics that show that recreation areas 
can deter crime. The report reveals that "crime plummeted 90 
percent in a Philadelphia precinct after police helped volunteers 
clean up vacant lots and plant gardens" and "juvenile arrests 
Vitw of Canal at cormr of Prosptct and Trumbull Struts 
DECEMBER 2, 1994 
declined by almost one-third in Fort Myers, FL, after the city began 
a youth academics and recreation p.rogram." In the TPL study the 
implementation of these recreational areas included specific 
programs and distinct efforts by the cities to reduce crime. Open 
space alone will not reduce crime. From their experience with 
urban parks, such as the New Haven Green, some would say that 
open space would make things only more dangerous. 
FCRTA's vision for the greenway diverges from city residents' 
vision for the trail's use. Alderman calls the accessibility to the Arts 
Block on Audobon Street from Dixwell and Newhall ville one of the 
biggest advantages of the greenway. Yet a series of concerts and 
sculpture events targeted toward these neighborhoods drew few 
residents from those areas, said Sharon Hausam (FOR '95), one of 
the organizers of the projects. This could indicate that using the 
canal land as a place for arts and cultural activities is not a high 
priority. 
Forestry students interviewed many Dixwell residents and 
found them to be "apathetic" about the greenway project. Many 
residents viewed the project as an idea imposed upon them by 
outsiders. Those who were aware of it often "belittled it by labeling 
it the 'jogging track' or 'bike path."' Most residents expressed 
interest, but many mentioned a need for types of recreation 
facilities other than a greenway. Instead of a bike path, one man 
suggested building basketball courts or installing swings. 
Others concerned with improving general living conditions 
suggested using the land for purposes other than a park-building 
housing, homeless shelters, or stores. One resident said, "Housing, 
we need more housing ... on second thought ... put stores there. We 
need grocery stores for people." 
Residents bring up over and over issues of safety and policing 
along the trail. Hausam said, "Safety is a major, major concern for 
Dixwell residents." Another resident of Dixwell, who works at 
Dixwell/Newhallville Menral Health and Family Services, says, 
"We don't need submerged parks. It would really be a recipe for 
muggings, for disaster. You would be making it easier to commit a 
crime. There would be muggings a mile long." 
A police officer at the Newhallville substation told the forestry


potential use of the canal as a shortcut to 
the "mudhole," a noted gathering place for 
gangs and drug dealers. He also stressed 
that the canal is an easy way for suspects to 
flee from police and that robberies might 
increase when the path is cleared of debris. 
An architectural plan for the canal 
developed by Balmori Associates includes a 
proposal for the trail that lies somewhere 
berween the vision of the FCRTA and the 
expressed needs of the Dixwell and 
Newliallville residents. Balmori's idea for 
the park transcends the somewhat limited 
vision of FCRTA, yet it still does not offer 
satisfactory plans for all of the park. A 
statement in the plan for the canal 
addresses many of the issues of building 
the greenway. In this original design plan, 
Balmori wrote, "The needs, concerns, 
development plans, and individual 
character of each section of, and 
neighborhood along, the canal corridor 
must be recognized and incorporated into 
the project" in order for the greenway to be 
effective as a continuous whole. 
Such ideological visions translate into 
policy with difficulty. Indeed, the proposal 
features specific plans for the cultural 
opportunities the trail will provide-the 
Yale Collection of Musical Instruments, 
the Arts Council Building, antique fairs, a 
proposal to build a museum of industrial 
technology, and mile markers stating the 
historical significance of each area the canal 
passes through. Running a light rail train 
through the canal was another idea 
presented by Balmori. 
Specific issues such as safety, however, 
have received only vague coverage in the
30 
Balmori plan. Balmori's notion of safety 
differs from the Dixwell residents' ideas. 
Alan Planus, Yale professor of architecture 
ancl a consultant on the initial Balmori 
plan, dismisses the possibility of criminals 
using the canal as an escape route. "Drug 
dealers are more sophisticated than that-
they have cars." The design plan focuses on 
preventing cars from accessing the trail, 
while allowing emergency vehicles to pass 
through. 
· 
Balmori suggests, "The best policy is 
patrolling by policemen on bikes, and 
closing 
the 
park 
at 
dark ... also 
neighborhood watch associations along the 
linear park." Her suggestions conjure up an 
unfathomable image for some. With city 
resources already strapped, the prospect of 
police officers patrolling the trail on 
bicycles appears unrealistic. 
Balmori also maintains that increased 
traffic on the trail would decrease crime 
activity in the area. Balmori said, "The 
work done by the Rails to Trails 
[Conservancy] in Washington, D.C., which 
has looked at many trails recently done, 
shows that heavy use by bikes and 
pedestrians makes places which have 
undesirable activities too visible and they 
tend to move away." 
Since the 1988 plan by Balmori 
Associates, Balmori, along with forestry and 
environmental studies professor William 
Burch, has worked with srudencs from the 
School of Forestry to develop a more 
comprehensive plan for the Farmington 
Canal. The students' work reveals a 
concern that any plan for the canal needs to 
recognize the unique problems that 
accompany building a park through urban 
communities. Hausam said, "[Balmori] is a 
firm believer in the idea that if we don't get 
the community involved, [the trail] won't 
happen." Using census data, personal 
interviews, and walking observations, the 
students assessed the canal neighborhoods. 
The students' report, "Farmington 
Canal Community Needs and Constraints 
Assessment," found the main concerns of 
residents in the urban neighborhoods 
focused on issues of security, maintenance, 
and feasibility (money and community 
support). The formula- necessary to make a 
successful trail in Dixwell and Newhallville 
is ambitious and complex. The report 
"Strategies for Management of the 
Farmington Canal Greenway," which 
makes recommendations for developing the 
canal, begins with the ominous statement, 
"Any attempt to transform this section of 
the canal into a greenway must be linked to 
the redevelopment of the parcels of land 
surrounding the canal. If the greenway were 
built today, the lack of people living and 
working in the immediate viciniry would 
make it a dangerous, and thus seldom used, 
area." The students then call for "urban 
renewal programs." Broad-based urban 
renewal programs carry large expenses and 
have generally been unsuccessful in the 
past. The efforts of the Forestry School 
provide no means to support all of the 
programs they suggest. There is no plan for 
the "urban renewal" that they demand for 
the Dixwell and Newhallville portions of 
the canal. 
Largely theoretical, the recom-
mendations do not sufficiently acknow-
ledge the complexities that would be 
involved 
in 
urban 
renewal. 
The 
recommendation for the mudhole area of 
Newhallville, perhaps the biggest cause for 
concern, is especially vague. "The mudhole 
provides a unique challenge for the 
greenway. With proper design and 
consideration, the greenway can restructure 
the area encompassing the mudhole and 
reclaim this area for the citizens of 
Newhallville. The greenway, therefore, will 
not only overcome a design obstacle, but 
will also resolve a lingering problem for the 
city." 
In 
making 
these 
vague 



**The Farmington Canal: A Greenway's Uncertain Future**
**Author: Kate Schuler**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
recommendations, the students did not 
even investigate the area closely. "Site 
observations were made from a distance as 
the area was deemed too dangerous to 
enter," their report states. 

The Forestry School report also 
suggests that the canal would benefit 
educational programs and schools in 
Newhallville and Dixwell. The Forestry 
School has already begun work on this idea. 
In the spring of 1994, they worked with 
classes in two high schools and one 
elementary school, to teach about various 
environmental concerns, historical aspects, 
and issues of maintenance and use of the 
canaL Beyond that, little actual work has 
been done to implement these kinds of 
programs. 

The limitations of a group of Yale 
students working to come up with a plan 
for implementation of such a controversial 
project are obvious. Yet to date, the 1988 
design by Balmori's firm and the work of 
the Forestry School have been the only 
attempts made at specific planning. 

Though their reports and conclusions have 
been made available to city officials and 
anyone involved with the Canal project, 
the Forestry School's "work was never 
meant to be an implementable plan," said 
Leigh Shemitz, president of Urban 
Resources Initiative. 

Alderman, while cautious not to insult 
the Forestry School students, said, "Their 
work was not really helpful-except as a 
good case study." Although the forestry 
students have come closest to addressing 
more of the wide-ranging issues of the 
greenway implementation and suggest that 
FCRTA's build-it-and-see-what-happens 
attitude needs to be reevaluated, FCRTA 
has virtually ignored their work and has 
continued to push the ciry to build the 
trail. 

The city is not presently undertaking 
any efforts to assess the feasibility of the 
trail. Pam Kressman, Deputy Director of 
the New Haven Parks Department, said, 
"The city hasn't done any planning for the 
trail, though we have knowledge of the 
work of the Forestry School." 

Despite the lack of a concrete plan, 
little research by the city, and only vague 
recommendations from the Forestry 
School, a grant is currently being written 
by Kressman, Janet Lindner, an official in 
the Mayor's office and other city officials to 
apply for federal money to implement the 
trail. The city's positive reception of the 
idea may be due to the fact that the federal 
government would contribute money to 
the project. But federal money will only 
pay for the design and construction of the 
greenway. The city would have to pay for 
upkeep, management, and policing. 

Considering the city's already strapped 
resources, concerns about the fate of the 
trail are justified. 

According to Mark Phillips, TK of the 
Transportation Department, funds could 
come through the l ntermodal Service 
Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA). 
The act established a Transportation 
Enhancement program which delegates a 
certain 
percentage · ·of 
a 
state's 
transportation budget be used for 
"enhancing the system, doing something a 
little different with the money-bicycle and 
pedestrian paths, landscaping," said 
Phillips. New Haven is preparing an 
application for ISTEA funds for either 
fiscal year 1996 or 1997. Alderman claims 
that the application process is "probably 
just a fo rmality," saying that "the 
inclination is to finish a project that has 
already been started, to link [the canal) to 
Hamden and Cheshire." 

The three blocks passing through Yale's 
property are the only remaining obstacles 
to the project. Recently, the Board of 
Aldermen threatened Yale's hold on the 
property while considering Yale's request 
for a permit to begin building a co-
generation power facility. The Board tacked 
on an amendment stating that Yale would 
have to settle its differences with FCRTA 
before the city would grant the permit. 
Though the amendment was eventually 
repealed, the Board seemed to be sending a 
message to Yale that it disapproves 
interference in New Haven interests, and 
that the city wants to build the greenway. 

Taking a wait-and-see stance on the 
project, Yale does not want to address the 
issue until the city makes a more concrete 
commitment to building the trail. Susan 
Godshall ('73 LAW, '75 M.ARC) assistant 
university secretary, said that since the city 
has just begun to address the monetary and 
land acquisition issues of the trail, and has 
not made much progress on the actual 
plans, it is not necessary for Yale to act 
immediately. 

The corner of Prospect and Trumbull 
Streets, according to Godshall, "remains 
one of the prime building sites on campus." 
That site is one of theJew spaces of 
undeve.loped land on central campus, and 
Yale would understandably be reluctant to 
give up such property. 

Yale is reluctant, though, to open more 
of its land to the city without the 
knowledge that its use will be regulated. 
Godshall recognizes the concerns about 
safety issues, "We certainly support the 
trail, provided that concerns about access 
and security are addressed." 

The Forestry School report cautions 
that "the city of New Haven has limited 
. resources for maintaining or patrolling the 
greenway. The physical condition and 
social life of the Farmington Canal 
Greenway will therefore depend almost 
entirely on the initiative of the people 
living and working near it." 

The future of the Farmington Canal 
now lies in the hands of the city and its 
decisions regarding community needs. The 
issue of the park remains a challenging one. 
In a Nov. 14, 1994 statement Balmori 
wrote, 'These new parks reach the pitch of 
their social significance-and consequently, 
of their political challenge-when they 
converge with the centers of cities." Her 
statement rings true in the current debate 
about the canal project in New Haven. Yet 
hope for the canal project is not lost, for 
she continues, "It is here where the division 
between nature and human creation, 
between country and city can be bridged 
rather than sanctioned." 


**Medical Miracles**
**Author: Dan Murphy**
**Page number(s): 33**

Medical Miracles 
Dr. Bernie Siegal heads the movement in medicine to do more than just fix 
bodies; he strives to heal-through the combination of body and mind . 
'' 
B
ernie 
Siegel?" 
says 
Roseanne behind the counter at 
Atticus Books on Chapel 
Street. "His books just 
Ay off the shelves." 

The only thing that moves faster 
than Bernie Siegel's books is Bernie 
Siegel himself. At 63, the former 
Yale professor of surgery, best-
selling author, and self-help 
therapist has just competed 
in his third marathon. 

Siegel also just happens 
to have a guardian angel 
named George. Siegel 
believes in the healing 
power of the color purple 
and shaves his head bald to 
uncover what he calls his 
"emotions, spirituality, and 
love." His car bears vanity license 
plates proclaiming "MD-LOVE." 

Siegel once told the supermarket 
tabloid Tht Midnight Globt that the 
mind can cure cancer. Perhaps Bobbie, 
Siegel's wife of thirty years described him best 
when she told Ptopk magazine, "He's always been 
different." 

Even with all of his personal quirks, Siegel would 
likely still be a relatively obscure New Haven surgeon, 
teaching surgery at Yale, if not for his radical 
psychoneuroimmunological ideas about cancer. At a 
time when soaring health care costs have necessitated 
radjcal reform in medicine, Siegel presents a return to the 
cost-effective laying on of hands. As the technology of 
standard medical practice expands, Siegel stands on the 
scientific fringe. Mainsrream medicine appears reluctant 
to embrace a man who places miracles above machines. 

Siegel has not always trusted in the power of 
miracles. Beginning in 1960, he held a New Haven 
by Dan Murphy 
surgery practice with Dr. Rjchard Selzer, whom he 
met while a surgical resident at Yale. But what would 
appear like success to many fell far shore for 
Siegel. "I felt like a failure," he writes in his 
1986 book Lovt, Mtdicint and Miraclts. 

He saw himself as a mechanic trying 
merely to fix people, and when he 
failed, it left him in a state of despair. 

Lovt, Medicint, and Miraclts cites a 
journal entry from the mid 70s: "I 
operate on person after person 
and I can't cure them. What 
good can I do anyone?" 

Two separate sets of 
changes brought Siegel out of 
this state, altering his life 
forever. The first changes 
came gradually. He shaved his 
head for the first time. He 
moved his desk against the 
wall so he could sit closer to his 
patients. He encouraged his 
patients to call him Berrue instead 
of Dr. Siegel. He extended his new 
warmth to fellow physicians, medical 
students, and residents. "He was 
personally warm 
a nd delightful," 
remembers Dr. Barbara Ward, assistant 
professor of oncology at the Yale School of ;; 
Medicine, who worked with Siegel during her 
residency at Yale. "He was always listening to the £. 
patients and the residents." Ward recalls an 
z 
occasion when Siegel drew a rainbow on her name. ., 
.s::. 
"That sort of thing was typical of him," she notes. 
'5 
Yet even after this personal transformation, Siegel E 
still felt something lackjng in his practice. He was still 
seekjng answers in 1978 when he attended a workshop } 
entitled "Psychological Factors, Stress, and Cancer." l> 
During one of the workshop's gujded meditations, ~ 
Siegel first encountered his guardian angel George, 
whom he describes in his fll'St book as "a bearded, 
long-haired young man wearing an immaculate 



**Lessons Learned About Self-Healing From A Surgeon's Experience With Exceptional Patients**
**Author: Bernie S. Siegel, M.**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
flowing white gown and skullcap." Since 
that moment George has served as Siegel's 
inner guide, adviser, and invaluable 
companion. 

With George's help, Siegel came to the 
realization that eventually laid the 
groundwork for his current theories. Siegel 
turned his attention to the exceptions of 
individual cures and away from the vast 
statistics of the uncured. In essence, he 
"And maybe someday 
Bernie will perform 
miracles. And then 
won't I fall down on 
my knees," says Dr. 
Richard Selzer. 
began to believe in healing miracles. He 
chose the path of possibility over the path of 
probability . 


New 
ideas 
rapidly 
accumulated 
upon this miraculous 
groundwork. In Love, 
Medicine, and Miracles, 
Siegel asserts that the 
source of-as well as 
the remedy for-a 
disease lies within the 
individual. Siegel's 
assertions follow this 
scheme: cancer- and 
all disease for that 
matter- results 
primarily 
from 
personal tension and 
unhappiness. Genetics 
and environmental 
factors 
plant 
the 
molecular seeds of 
cancer in everyone to 
varying degrees, but 
the individual's state of 
mind determines if 
those seeds will grow. If the individual lacks 
purpose or love in his life, cancer steps in to 
fill the void. Within the context of the 
central nervous system, the endocrine 
system, and the immune system, the mind 
activates "live" or "die" messages. Frame of 
mind determines which message the body 
receives. "Peace of mind sends to the body a 
'live' message, while depression, fear, and 
unresolved conflict give it a 'die' message," 
Siegel writes. 

Siegel defines "healing" as separate and 
distinct from "curing." Healing involves the 
individual's mental and emotional health, 
while curing pertains only to the direct 
physical aspects of disease. Cancer treatment 
begins by changing one's attitude towards 
life. Healing the angry and the unfulfilled 
parts of one's life establishes a new frame of 
mind more receptive to "live" messages. 
Drugs and radiation, integral to the cure of 
disease, can help patients live long enough 
to reach this change of heart, but no 
"curing" of a disease can take place without 
an initial "healing." Some people never 


reach the cure, but in Siegel's view, everyone 
can attain personal healing. "In achieving 
peace of mind," writes Siegel, "cancer may 
be healed, sight may be restored, and 
paralysis may disappear," writes Siegel. 

Siegel's prescriptions for healing follow 
logically from his convictions: bring peace 
and love into your life; forgive yourself and 
others; don't harbor resentment, anger, or 
fear; be calm, centered, and focused; don't 
forget the joy; do what makes you happy; 
find the childlike quality within you; play. 

To help people achieve these intermediate 
goals on the path to healing, Siegel outlines 
methods of introspection such as keeping a 
journal, analyzing dreams and drawings, and 
meditation. In his second book, Peace, Love, 
and Healing he offers a five-step program 
that integrates hypnosis, biofeedback, 
creative visualization, prayer, yoga, music, 
and poetry. Siegel says these treatments 
allow the patient to participate in the 
healing team process with the doctors and 
nurses. "They let the patient see their 
intuitive beliefs from the unconscious. If 
there are negative symbols then they can be 
corrected," he says. 

Siegel's direct contact with cancer 
patients has decreased since he retired from 
surgery in 1989 to devote himself full-time 
to lecturing and writing. "If I manage to 
influence training doctors, I help more 
people indirectly through the ripple effect," 
he says. In addition to Love, Medicine and 
Miracles, and Peace, Love, and Healing, he 
also authored How to Live Between Office 
Visits in 1993. 

Siegel has also reached out to people 
through Exceptional Cancer Patients 
(ECaP), a group he founded soon after 
meeting George in 1978. Siegel writes that 
an exceptional cancer patient "refuses to play 
the victim" and instead demands "dignity, 
personhood and control." ECaP, which 
recently moved its headquarters from 
downtown New Haven to Middlebury, 
operates today as a support group for 
exceptional patients. The patients meet in 
groups to meditate and express their 
feelings, thereby beginning the internal 
healing process. Siegel 
cites a number of 
independent medical 
studies, including a 
1989 
experiment 
showing that women 
with breast cancer 
who participated in 
group therapy lived 
longer than those who 
did not. Siegel also 
quotes an experiment 
which found that men 
with heart disease were 
less likely to suffer 
relapses 
if 
they 
participated in group 
sessions. 

These facts and 
figures are secondary, 
however, to Siegel's 
personal experiences. 
He has drawn his 
fundamental 
conclusions 
observing 
people 
rather than from 
analyzing data. Siegel remembers John 
Florio, a landscaper with cancer. "John said, 
'I'm going home to make the world 
beautiful and if I die that's okay,"' recalls 
Siegel. "He refused all treatment and went 
home and worked on his garden, and today 
he's over ninety years old." 

Love, Medicine, and Miracles also 
mentions Linda, a patient who refused 
chemotherapy and whose doctor told her 
that she'd come crawling back to beg for it. 
Linda said to herself, "That S.O.B.! I won't 
die, just to prove he's wrong." Linda lived 
ten years without chemotherapy before 
beginning chemo to live even longer. 

Through letters he receives, Siegel has 
heard of countless such cases. "One woman 
wrote that after she was diagnosed she wrote 
a will, gave away her treasures, laughed, 
took some vitamins, bought a dog, and 
planted a backyard landscape. She joked 
that she had beat the disease, but was so 
busy that she was killing herself," recalls 
Siegel. "That's what you have to do, though: 
burn up, not burn out." Siegel believes that 
living life to the fullest beats disease. "If you 
can beat the cancer for one year, by living 
the life you chose, then you will have shown 
all your family and friends how to live and 
how to die," he says. 


Even though Siegel's books may fly off 
bookstore shelves, they aren't landing 
in the hands of the disbelieving 
medical establishment. Siegel's initial 
assertion-that the primary cause of cancer 
is found in the mind consistently-comes 
under fire from others who treat cancer. Dr. 
Ronald Merrell, chairman of Yale's 
department of surgery, notes, "For myself, 
as for most physicians, the importance of 
the mind in disease is subliminal, not 
paramount, as it is for Dr. Siegel." 

Dr. Joseph Germino, assistant professor 
of oncology also considers Siegel's ideas 
extreme. "Maybe for some patients, mind 
over matter works, but for most patients, 
emotional therapy alone is just not 
effective," he says. Even Selzer, Siegel's 
former partner, characterizes himself as 
"naturally skeptical," preferring to place his 
faith in science and, "what actually can be 
done." 

But even those who criticize Siegel for 
his lack of scientific basis do acknowledge 
that the mind holds some influence over the 
body. Yale psychology professor Kelly 
Brownell emphasizes that, despite his 
personal belief in Siegel's ideas and Siegel's 
course of action, as a scientist, the lack of 
verified data prevents him from asserting 
Siegel's effectiveness. Having witnessed first-
hand the power of the mind, most doctors 
qualify their criticism of Siegel. Merrel says, 
"Like all surgeons, I've seen inexplicable 
recoveries, and I've witnessed the deaths of 
patients who simply gave up." 

The medical community also questions 
the consequences of Siegel's celebrity status. 
Siegel has presented his ideas on Oprah!, 
Donahue, and Good Morning America, 
among other shows. "Fame forces you to 
present yourself in a certain way," notes 
Selzer. Some doctors fear that Siegel has 
condensed cancer and treatment into 
oversimplified soundbites for the purpose of 
self-promotion and popularization. "He's 
only dealing with the issues and the 
problems on a surface level with the general 
public," says Germino. Siegel contends he 
goes on these shows "to awaken people to 
the mind-body connection," so that they 
will go and examine his theories more 
In his first book Siegel 
describes his guardian 
angel George as "a 
bearded, long-haired 
young man wearing 
an immaculate 
flowing white gown 
and skullcap." 
closely. Siegel says that he resents his 
portrayal in the popular media as a 
professional eccentric. 

In criticizing the basis and the content 
of Siegel's ideas, doctors seem to view 
him as a well-meaning man with a 
misdirected message. But a few critics go 
beyond the contention that his message is 
seriously flawed and assert that Siegel may 
actually pose a serious danger to cancer 
patients. Dr. Thomas Fynan, associate 
research scientist in medical oncology at 
Yale, says, "The basic message behind Dr. 
Siegel's ideas is that if you try harder, you 
could prevent or cure your disease, and this 
is simply not true. The causes of cancer are 
molecular and genetic, and there's a limit to 
how effective 'seminars' can be." 

Siegel's instruction for a patient to ask 
herself "Why do I need this disease?" might 
include elements of self-condemnation and 
blame. "Empowerment over certain 
elements of sickness is good," notes Fynan, 
"but you cannot empower people over the 
disease of cancer." 

"It's about examining your life, not 
blaming yourself," contends Siegel. "'False 
hope' is an oxymoron. Besides, what's the 
alternative, no hope?" According to Siegel, 
since each individual is different, each 
experience of disease is unique. Siegel 
declares that there are no incurable diseases, 
only incurable people. "Statistics can help 
you make choices, but statistics do not apply 
to individuals," he says. 

While Siegel puts his faith in hope, 
other doctors fear that patients will never 
accept the danger of a disease if they adhere


**Title: Between the Vines**
**Author: Jay Porter**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Mixed Messages

IF your life were a movie, what would the soundtrack be? But would anyone 
listen to the words? 

It all started my senior year of high school. After I got 
my first CD player for Christmas, my descent into recycled 
sentiment began almost immediately. I developed an 
ear for the perfect transition, developed a shorthand 
for disc and track numbers, learned to tally at a glance the 
combination of songs that would fill a given length of 
tape. I became a mixmaster, able to communicate not 
with my own words but with other people's music. I 
wooed and wept to the tune of personalized 
soundtracks; every car trip demanded the 
correct accompaniment. If I had a problem, 
making a mix would help me solve it. If 
I needed to tell someone something 
important, my own voice was the 
last one I would think of 
using. 

As my freshman year 
roommates unpacked 
their own spec-
tacular music 
collections, 
my heart beat 
faster. I felt that 
my 
mixes 
were 
limited only by the 
number of voices that I 
could add to them, and 
among the people on my floor 
upwards of 1,000 CDs featured 
hundreds of performers as of yet 
unknown to me. Most importantly, I 
found dozens of friends who shared my 
passion for mixing as well as my sense of 
its emotional import. One friend 
presented me with a heartfelt mix to console me about the death of 
my family's dog; another assembled 90 minutes of vaguely 
misogynistic music to ease the pain of another romance gone awry. 

Dead dogs notwithstanding, romance or the lack of it inspires 
the vast majority of all mix tapes. Call us children 
of TV, CDs, or MTV-call us Generation X if 
you must-but, alas, don't call us poets. When it 
comes to expressing love, longing, or loss, we're more likely to do 
so by throwing together a dozen songs than by penning a sonnet or 
some vers libre. In my case, at least, it seems to have boiled down to 
either/or: during my most prolific mix years, I didn't 
write a single poem. Junior high and high 
school left in their wake scores 
of inspired works of 
poetic creation-teen 
angst at its best-praising 
various objects of my 
respect, revulsion, and 
deep, true, abiding love. 
While the wider world will 
probably not miss the two 
years' worth of highly 
enjambed melancholy, I 
know I would have been 
better 
off writing 
through my emotions 
instead of splicing 
other people's lyrics 
in place of my true 
feelings. 

The realization that I was 
mixing rather than writing has made me 
think seriously about what it means to mix. 
When I began asking people about their 
mixes I found an eerie sameness, a 
claustrophobic language of cliche and 
canned sentiment. But at the same time, the 
people I talked to spoke about the mixes they give and 
receive with fierce emotion. They serve as totems and turning 
points in relationships, affirmations of friendship, and important 
coping devices that help people wrest meaning from a confusing 
environment. Their reactions convinced me that mixes and the 
phenomenon of mix-making mean something, but that this 
meaning is provisional and changing. 

My research started close to home. I called old friends and 
asked them to search around for the mixes I had 
given them over the years. First of all, for all the 
uniqueness I thought to imbue each tape with, ten 
to twenty songs make up a constant core: The Indigo Girls' "Closer 
to Fine" and U2's "With or Without You" turn up with 
embarrassing frequency. The liners feature the same scrawl with 
elegant pretensions, the similar feints at catchy titles. My friend 
Anne laughed as she psychoanalyzed song choices in hindsight of 
my coming out: my reliance on Erasure and the Pet Shop Boys 
seems hilariously stereotypical to her now. Julie, a friend from 
home I had tried doggedly to fall in love with, dug out six tapes of 
an increasingly less-subtle romantic bent; she informed me that she 
had been clueless because she never listens to song lyrics. I had to 
smile, remembering hours spent in my overdetermined English-
major mode weighing the meaning that she would rake from a 
certain track by Natalie Cole or Jesus Jones. The answer: none. But 
she assures me she loves my mixes anyway. 

I also looked, with a measure of regret, at a mix I made upon 
my return to New Haven this fall. It has sat unsent on my stereo 
for months: before I could get it in the mail, the relationship whose 
joys and pains it catalogues had devolved into a series of angry 
phone calls. There is something pathetic about the unsent mix: like 
an unmailed letter but weightier, the black tape coiled inside the 
plastic shell like the memory of kisses and broken promises. 

Unlike poetry, which is generally 
seen as having some meaning, 
mixes have the singular ability to 
be transparent. It may be too 
easy to listen to the music and 
ignore the words. 

My roommate Sara has her share of unsent mixes, too. 
They play like a diary or a travelogue, marking the transit 
of a life full of changes. She struck upon a good title early 
on and stuck with it: she has countless volumes of *College Love and 
Other Anomalies*. I know the songs mean different things in the 
context of her life, but her choices resemble mine more than they 
differ: heavy on the Indigo Girls, Peter Gabriel, and the Cowboy 
Junkies, with a little Mary-Chapin Carpenter thrown in for good 
measure. Her mixes, however, are much more artfully labelled than 
mine. 

Another friend tells me of the stack of tapes in his room that 
documents the story of a long-term relationship recently gone sour. 
The early stages, predictably, include "In Your Eyes" and "All I 
Want Is You," along with darker notes that make the whole affair 
seem doomed to failure. But that, again, is hindsight. When you 
receive a mix from your girlfriend, he tells me, you want it to be a 
love letter. 

I like the 
way a mix can make 
people treat pop songs like poems 
to be analyzed and decoded. But unlike poetry, 
which is generally seen as having some meaning, mixes have the 
singular ability to be transparent. It may just be too easy to listen to 
the music and ignore the words-just ask Julie. That's a lesson I 
had to learn the hard way. 

This may be a noble effort on the personal level, but it is likely 
to be a fatal strategy. I can almost see the culture-vultures circling. 
As fellow twenty-somethings take over the entertainment industry, 
the mix-making ethos is flourishing: no high-concept movie can 
make it without an equally high-concept soundtrack album. The 
songs need not have been in the movie anymore-they need only 
conjure up an appropriate mood or convey emotions germane to 
the film. Some soundtracks-like that for *Reality Bites*-even have 
the feel of a good mix tape, with lots of different artists' styles 
jostling against one another. Buying it is kind of like opening your 
mailbox to find a mix from Ethan Hawke. Don't be fooled. It's a 
lesson that should be included in any pop-culture primer. 

Beyond the personal and psychological qualms I have with my 
mix-making phase, the entire phenomenon seems to point 
toward a serious shift in the means and methods of self-
expression. Postmodern theory, for all its occasional abstruseness, 
offers strikingly clear terms with which to discuss mix-making. As 
popular culture becomes both the primary arena for the discussion 
of personal and political issues, and the common language in which 
these issues are framed, traditional notions of the individual nature 
of creativity become much less stable. To what extent are two 
people relating as individuals if their speech is colonized by 
references to *The Brady Bunch*, Madonna, and *My So-Called Life*? Does 
my selection of other people's songs count as an act of creativity, or 
is it mere bricolage-a scavenger's attempt at second-hand 
sentiment? Does mix-making represent a courageous attempt to 
personalize and make meaning from received pop-culture forms, or 
does it represent the abdication of creativity to well-publicized 
puppets of the music industry? These are questions I can't begin to 
answer. But I do know that I will never again allow the mixed 
message to replace my attempts at original expression. If my mixes 
can coexist with my writing (emphasis on my), fine; if I ever return 
to putting together collections of random songs instead of stanzas 
of finely tuned verse, I'll just have to stop buying blank tapes.


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Dan Murphy**
**Page number(s): 37**

to Siegel's assertion that no condition is 100 
percent terminal. As Selzer put it, "There 
must be a rime to say 'enough."' Dr. Merrell 
echoes, "Sometimes, there's nothing that 
can be done, and it's best for the patient to 
peacefully accept the future." 

Siegel's zeal in advocating his theories 
appears limitless. "I know a patient is 
ready to fight cancer if I see they have 
my book and they have the Bible," he says. 
He also believes that within ten years 
science will have uncovered information 
supporting all his theories. 

Siegel's faith in himself has only 
distanced him further from the medical 
mainstream. "With so much enthusiasm, 
this type of thing is likely to take on all the 
flavor of a religious revival," says Selzer. 
"Part of the popularity lies in Bernie's 
magnetic personal charisma, and I think 
there's a real danger in dispensing hope by 
the mouthful to those without hope, in the 
way a priest dispenses absolution." 

Bernie Siegel does like to speak in 
absolutes, but discussing cancer and the 
human mind presents dual realms of 
uncertainty. Bernie Siegel dwells amidst this 
uncertainty. Accordingly, the motto of 
ECaP reads, "In the face of uncertainty, 
there is nothing wrong with hope." That 
intangible, immeasurable hope may have 
helped many cancer patients to live better 
lives. As Selzer puts it, "Bernie has served a 
great purpose and filled a need for so many 
people that even the skeptic has to marvel 
and commend him. I certainly do. And 
maybe someday Bernie will perform 
miracles. And then won't I fall down on my 
knees." 

Bernie Siegel believes that he has 
performed miracles. Every time he witnesses 
a cancer patient changing his or her life and 
learning to fight the disease, he sees a 
miracle. Until the medical profession 
embraces miracles, however, Siegel's 
enormous popular acclaim will dwell in the 
shadow of professional doubt. 

Dan Murphy, a freshman in Timothy Dwight 
College, is on the staff of TNJ.



**Title: None**
**Author: None**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Resumes) tabletents) 
posters) course material) 
typesetting from 
Macintosh disks 
&whatnot ... 
4-32-copy (4-32-2679) 
Septembe~ ()ctobe~ 
January) February: 
8-6:30 Mon.-Thurs. 
8-s Fri. 
lVovembe~ lJecember, 
March through August: 
8-s Mon.-Fri. 
Copies 
only 
4-¢* 
Still the 
lowest 
• 
prtces 
in Elm 
City! 
• ptr copy for mort tiJnn ttn copies 
oftiJt snmt original; 
tiJt prict is 4~ cwts tnciJ 
for ont to un co pits. 

