Publication date: FEB 2019
Volume: 51
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD**
- editors-in-chief: Annie Rosenthal, Mark Rosenberg
- managing editor: Arya Sundaram
- senior editors: Antonia Ayres-Brown, Chris Hays, Robert Scaramuccia
- associate editors: Laura Glesby, Max Graham, Rachel Koh, Sohum Pal, Elliot Wailoo
- reporting supported by the Edward Bennett III Memorial Fund
- members and directors: Emily Bazelon, Lincoln Caplan, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin 
- friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, Leslie Dach, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Gabriel Snyder, Elizabeth Steig, Aliyya Swaby, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen
- copy editors: Kofi Ansong, Yonatan Greenberg, Sofia Laguarda, Sara Luzuriaga, Eliana Swerdlow
- design editors: Merritt Barnwell, Anya Pertel, Meher Hans, Sam Oldshue, Rachel Wolf
- photo editors: Robbie Short, Vivek Suri
- web developer: Philippe Chlenski


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- points of departure - A GOOD HAT IS HARD TO FIND — Beasie Goddu
- points of departure - HOW TO SOLVE EVERYTHING — Eli Mennerick
- points of departure - MIND MATTER — Matthew Kleiner
- poem - WHAT YOU TOLD ME ABOUT THE FIG TREE — Rachel Koh
- snapshot - IN THE RED — Conor Johnson
- snapshot - FACING THE FLOOD — Sarah Adams
- PIKE’S PATTERN OF NEGLECT — Candice Wang
- ROBERT ZIRPOLO’S FLYING MACHINE — Robert Scaramuccia
- FIVE BEERS DEEP AT THE UNION STATION SBARRO — Mariah Kreutter


**Letter from the Editors**
**Author: Annie and Mark**
**Page number(s): 2**

Dear readers,
The time? April 2015. The place? Payne Whitney Gymnasium. Dazed by the floodlights overhead and the pearly-white 
smiles of our high-achieving peers, we wandered the extracurricular bazaar at Bulldog Days. Ballroom dancers besieged 
us. We could have become stars of the polo team. Every single improv group wanted us, bad. Instead, we each ended up 
at a table in the back staffed by scruffy-looking representatives of an unregistered organization who had snuck their way in. 
The nice people at The Magazine About Yale & New Haven poured us the Kool-Aid: smart, people-centered storytelling 
about the place where we’d spend the next four years.

They had quite a legacy to point to. The oldest longform magazine at Yale, TNJ has been pumping out stellar journalism 
for fifty-one years. A few weeks ago, we put our entire archives up online: 250 issues, thousands of stories, a massive trove 
of Yale and New Haven history. (Read away at issuu.com/thenewjournal.)

In our latest, we’ve got some truly great reads: an investigation into alleged negligence by one of New Haven’s largest real 
estate companies, the madcap world of hot air balloonists, everything you need to know about Connecticut’s fiscal crisis 
and New Haven’s plan to fight global warming, plus a century-old hat store and literal human brains, Yalies who just want 
to be good people, and Yalies who just want to get drunk at Union Station.

Thank you to the members of our alumni board for their wise advice, high standards, and unfailing faith in this publication. 
And eternal gratitude to the members of our editorial board, who each spent 180 (!) hours of the past year locked in the 
living room of 216 Dwight St., feverishly inputting edits on a diet of pure coffee and carbs. Together, we’ve birthed five 
beautiful issues. As an independent, nonprofit magazine, TNJ is completely made up of its people –– and you guys are 
the best.

Finally, thank you, readers, for reading. We hope you’ll write. Can’t wait to see what’s coming down the pipes.

Signing off,
Annie and Mark
anna.rosenthal@yale.edu
mark.b.rosenberg@yale.edu



**Title: PIKE’S PATTERN OF NEGLECT**
**Author: Candice Wang**
**Page number(s): 20**

Student tenants claim that Pike International, one of  
New Haven’s biggest real-estate developers, has failed  
to maintain their homes.



**Title: ROBERT ZIRPOLO’S FLYING MACHINE**
**Author: Robert Scaramuccia**
**Page number(s): 28**

A hot air balloonist soars high above Connecticut.



**Title: A GOOD HAT IS HARD TO FIND**
**Author: Beasie Goddu**
**Page number(s): 4**

[This appears to be a section title/headline, not a full article.]



**Title: HOW TO SOLVE EVERYTHING**
**Author: Eli Mennerick**




**Title: MIND MATTER**
**Author: Matthew Kleiner**




**Title: WHAT YOU TOLD ME ABOUT THE FIG TREE**
**Author: Rachel Koh**
**Page number(s): 10**

[This is likely a poem, but the text of the poem is not provided.]



**Title: IN THE RED**
**Author: Conor Johnson**
**Page number(s): 12**

Can Ned Lamont save Connecticut from a staggering budget crisis?



**Title: FACING THE FLOOD**
**Author: Sarah Adams**
**Page number(s): 16**

As seas rise, New Haven enacts an ambitious plan to combat climate change.



**Title: FIVE BEERS DEEP AT THE UNION STATION SBARRO**
**Author: Mariah Kreutter**
**Page number(s): 38**

A discount at a train station offers an evening of intoxication.



**A Good Hat Is Hard to Find**
**Author: Beasie Goddu**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
4
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
A GOOD HAT IS HARD TO FIND
P O I N T  O F  D E PA R T U R E
Beasie Goddu 
“A 
hat is a timeless piece,” Ben 
DelMonico declares. The manager of 
New Haven’s DelMonico Hatter sits 
across from me in Java Café with a mint tea, tapping 
the visor of his grey wool baseball cap. His hat — a 
Wigens, he informs me — complements his crisp 
button-down and grey wool sweater. Ben chooses his 
words carefully, massaging one hand with the other as 
he focuses on a point over my shoulder. The 44-year-old 
New Haven native isn’t used to being interviewed. The 
last news coverage of the business was in 2017, when 
the New Haven Independent showed up to document 
an unusual customer: a possibly-rabid possum, which 
Ben had to call the police to remove. The possum 
might have made a good hat, but it certainly wasn’t 
going to buy one. 

In the early twentieth century, there were twenty-
seven hat stores in New Haven. Now there is only 
one. Established in 1908 by Ernest DelMonico, 
senior, DelMonico Hatter sits at 47 Elm Street, a 
block southeast of the Green, between a menswear 
shop and a rubber stamp store. Ben is part of the 
fourth generation of DelMonico hatters –– his father 
and grandfather spent their whole careers behind the 
counter. As a young boy, Ben helped out in the store 
over the Christmas holidays, but he didn’t return to 
it until about ﬁve years ago, when his father, Ernest, 
asked him to come home to help run the business. 
Since Ernest’s death last year, Ben has taken charge.

From the street, you might mistake the store for a tea 
parlor. A large, colorful sign graced by an enthusiastic 
Mad Hatter hangs in front. Displays of carefully-posed 
hats in the windows hearken back to a time when one 
may have casually left one’s derby on the dressing table 
or one’s bowler on the baby grand. DelMonico’s stocks 
forty-seven types of hats, from sombreros to skullcaps. 
You, too, can suavely drop their names (Tricorne, 
anyone? How about a pork pie?) by consulting the 
store’s newly updated online glossary, designed to act 
as translator for a younger crowd unfamiliar with hat 
lingo. When you do, you will learn, shockingly, that 
the ﬁrst incarnation of a beret debuted in the Bronze 
Age, and, less shockingly, that “the core purpose of the 
helmet has remained the same, to protect the head 
from injury.”

Ben’s desk is at the back of the store, behind 
labyrinthine rows of hat racks and hatboxes. 
DelMonico’s assistant manager, Christina Urdanivia, 
and retailer, Vijor McCray, huddle around a countertop 
computer opposite him. All three are on the phone 
with customers. “What was your last size? What color?” 
they ask. One hat is going to South Africa.

When she ﬁnishes her call, Christina offers to show 
me the back of the shop, where they resize, steam, and 
ﬂatten hats. Behind Ben’s desk, we enter a museum of 
perfectly preserved millinery equipment. Lining one 
New Haven’s lone hat shop recalls a bygone era.


5
FEBRUARY 2019
wall are small wooden busts of head circumferences, 
disk-shaped, almost like tree rings. Christina points to 
the hat-steaming machine, a voluminous, aluminum 
mushroom cap connected to a shaft. They don’t do 
as much in-store repair work, she tells me; they don’t 
do much in-store business, period. Ernest DelMonico 
wisely embraced the dot com boom in the early 2000s, 
ahead of the curve for the hat world. Most of their sales 
are online, with clients from out-of-town and abroad. 
People just don’t wear hats the way they used to, 
Ben explains. The turning point for hat culture in the 
U.S., he says, was January 20, 1961: John F. Kennedy’s 
inauguration. Kennedy was the last President-elect to 
emerge from his motorcade wearing a top hat. After he 
was sworn in, Kennedy, one of the most photographed 
men in the country, seldom donned a hat. The 
public subsequently christened him “Hatless Jack.” 
The majority of American men put their hats on the 
shelf, and the industry petered out. Now, hat-wearers 
in America are an eclectic group, equal parts ardent 
traditionalists and bold statement makers.

Ben manages DelMonico’s daily operations, and 
Christina, a ﬁve-year veteran of the industry, provides 
abundant enthusiasm. (She tells me, “You need to 
ﬁnd the right hat for the shape of the face, but also the 
right brim, the right color.”) Vijor, age twenty-two, is 
the entrepreneur. While I talk to her, she deftly runs 
through shipping receipts, organizing and cataloguing 
them. She’s wearing a sleek black tracksuit and her 
hair is pulled into a neat ponytail. It’s only her fourth 
day on the job, but she’s already cased the joint, and 
she has ambitious plans for the business’ future. “Our 
new photo shoots are going to be bold, daring,” she 
says decisively. “I think hats, all different kinds, should 
appeal to a younger clientele.” 

The homburg, for instance, may be staging a 
resurgence. It has a tipped-up brim and a deﬁned center 
dent. First popularized in the 1890s by King Edward 
VII of England, it is known as the “Godfather Hat,” 
after Marlon Brando in the movies. It’s also the hat of 
choice for one of DelMonico’s most loyal customers, 
Ramblin’ Dan, a popular Connecticut bluegrass player 
and the proud owner of a DelMonico white straw 
homburg with a small feather in the cap. He wears it 
all the time, according to a post on his blog. When he 
ﬁrst left the store with it, he reports, a man across Elm 
Street shouted “NICE HAT!” 

Dan isn’t the only local celebrity who gets his 
headwear from DelMonico’s: Mayor Toni Harp has 
been in a few times, usually to buy a Betmar, Ben tells 
me. Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro, of Connecticut’s 
third district, recently purchased a Borsalino. On one 
occasion, Yale President Peter Salovey dropped in to 
–  Beasie Goddu is a ﬁrst-
year in Silliman College.
buy a traditional straw-brimmed Panama hat. 

Local customers are appreciative of the store’s 
history. That’s what matters to Calista Washburn, Ben 
DelMonico’s niece, who will start college at Yale in 
the fall. She helped out over the Christmas vacation, 
the store’s busiest time of year. “So many people came 
in and told me about buying hats from my great-
grandfather,” Calista tells me over the phone. I ask her 
if she wears hats herself. “To be fully honest, I don’t 
like hats. Maybe the odd baseball cap,” she confesses. 
“My grandfather, though—now there was a gentleman 
who really wore hats.”

A happy customer leaving DelMonico’s has to 
weave through rows of classic hats –– a reminder that 
they’ve just bought into a history of sophistication and 
elegance. Walking out, I think of Rosalind Russell, the 
1940s ﬁlm star in “His Girl Friday.” She plays a gutsy 
female reporter with a silk-padded chevron-striped top 
hat — one I could see on a bolder version of myself.


**How to Solve Everything**
**Author: Eli Mennerick**
**Page number(s): 6**

6
F
rankie Andersen-Wood stood beside a 
projected cartoon of a light bulb with its 
ﬁlament twisted into the shape of a heart. 
In front of her, ﬁve Yale students sat along one side 
of a seminar table. Upbeat pop music played in the 
background. 

“Effective altruism isn’t something you can just 
learn about in two hours,” said Andersen-Wood, 
co-president of Yale Effective Altruism (YEA), going 
off-script from her presentation at YEA’s spring 
information session. She spoke quickly and in a 
soft English accent. “If that were the case, then the 
world would be solved.” 

A social movement that emerged in the late 2000s 
at the University of Oxford, effective altruism aims 
to quantify and maximize the positive impact of 
individuals’ lives. In practice, this means identifying 
the world’s most urgent issues—those chosen by 
adherents include global poverty, animal suffering, 
climate change, and artiﬁcial intelligence—and 
recommending the most efﬁcient responses. The 
movement recommends careers based on their social 
beneﬁt and assesses charitable donations based on 
their impact and cost-efﬁciency. 

The most active local effective altruism groups—
YEA among them—are at elite colleges like Oxford, 
Harvard, Stanford, and Yale, or in large cities like 
London and Boston. According to Andersen-Wood, 
the YEA mailing list includes about seven hundred 
students and recent graduates, although only twenty-
ﬁve are actively involved. YEA hosts speakers and 
career workshops, holds social events, and runs a 
semester-long fellowship designed to introduce Yale 
students to effective altruism.

A week before her presentation, I met Andersen-
Wood at Blue State Coffee on York. She sat in an 
armchair by the window, balancing a balsamic-
glazed tofu sandwich on her lap. Andersen-Wood is 
vegan and majoring in political science. This is not 
an unusual set of characteristics for Yale’s effective 
altruists (or, as Anderson-Wood prefers, “aspiring 
effective altruists”). Many follow animal-free diets; 
the majority study political science, philosophy, or a 
STEM ﬁeld. Effective altruism also inﬂuences other 
facets of Andersen-Wood’s life: “what I buy and what 
I don’t buy, where I donate, if I donate, how often I 
donate, how much I donate, career choices.”

Aaron Gertler, who graduated in 2015, founded 
YEA during his senior year at Yale. Now, he works 
in communications at the Centre for Effective 
Altruism. He also keeps a personal blog, where he 
publishes his charitable donations; he gives ten 
percent of his income to charity every year, primarily 
to effective altruism organizations and the Against 
Malaria Foundation. 

Joshua Monrad, the former co-president of YEA, 
arrived at Yale planning to study psychology. But 
under the inﬂuence of effective altruism, he switched 
majors to Ethics, Politics, and Economics, and now 
hopes to work in public health after college. 

“I think I would have grown frustrated if I had felt 
like I wasn’t in the best path for helping others,” he 
told me over Skype. Monrad is from Denmark, but 
this semester he’s studying abroad at Oxford, the 
philosophy’s birthplace. Still, he acknowledges that 
being a perfect effective altruist is an ideal, not a 
reality.

“As an international student, I ﬂy all over the 
world, which is expensive and emits a lot of carbon,” 
he said. “There are a lot of things that I own, that 
on a very extreme conception of effective altruism, 
I maybe didn’t have to own.” Effective altruism, he 
said, encourages him to think more about these 
issues, and to try harder to mitigate them.

The effective altruists at Yale seem wary of their 
public perception. In an email responding to my 
interview request, Monrad warned, “I have a tendency 
to be quite careful about how I represent effective 
altruism,” citing experiences with “unfortunate 
misconceptions about what the broader effective 
altruism movement is and what it involves.”

One point of controversy is effective altruism’s 
relationship with “earning to give,” the strategy of 
pursuing a high-paying job in order to donate more 
to charity. Especially early in its development, the 
effective altruism movement gained a reputation for 
recommending careers on Wall Street. But according 
to Sebastian Quaade, YEA’s strategy advisor, effective 



**Title: Effective Altruism at Yale**
**Author: Eli Mennerick**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
7
FEBRUARY 2019
altruism has since reduced its emphasis on earning 
to give. An article published in 2015 on the website 
of 80,000 Hours—an offshoot of the Centre for 
Effective Altruism named for the average number 
of working hours in a person’s life—clariﬁed the 
organization’s stance, asserting that earning to 
give is only one effective path among many. That 
attitude seems to be reﬂected across YEA: Quaade 
is interested in economic development, and none of 
the other ﬁve current or former YEA board members 
I talked to planned to pursue consulting or ﬁnance. 
Shelly Kagan, a Yale ethics professor, outlined a 
more philosophical question the movement faces. 
Since governments are better than individuals at 
enacting change, he wrote in an email, some might 
argue that effective altruists should focus more 
on government reform than individual actions. 
“Roughly, politics, not charity,” he wrote.


Another criticism focuses on the fact that effective 
altruism attracts a disproportionate number of white 
men. Two thirds of the 2,607 respondents to a 2018 
demographics survey on the Effective Altruism 
Forum were male. Seventy-eight percent were 
white, down from a staggering 89 percent in 2017. 
The 2018 survey notes that the drop was likely due to 
an increase in people who opted out of the question, 
not an increase in people from underrepresented 
groups. 


Eui Young Kim, a board member of YEA, 
acknowledged this problem. The movement has 
historically attracted people from “quantitative 
subjects, like cognitive science or math or physics 
or artiﬁcial intelligence,” ﬁelds that are “not exactly 
diverse,” Kim said.


Diversity seems especially important in a 
movement that aims to decide which problems 
are most pressing—a point Monrad acknowledged. 
Diversity helps “avoid blind spots and reduce the 
risk of overlooking important causes or approaches 
to doing good,” he said.


Jessica McCurdy, the other co-president of YEA, 
said that YEA’s members are the type of people who 
enjoy confronting uncomfortable moral questions. 
She described late-night discussions about the trolley 
problem and outlandish moral thought experiments. 
“It’s like, ‘Oh, how do I actually feel about that?” 
she said. “How many chickens is a human life 
worth?”


According to Andersen-Wood, effective altruism 
isn’t a philosophy or a set of answers, but a shared 
project. She and the other effective altruists at Yale 
ﬁnd a unique home in YEA: a secular congregation 
examining the meaning of a moral life. 

– Eli Mennerick is a 
sophomore in Ezra Stiles 
College.



**Title: Mind Matter**
**Author: Matthew Kleiner**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

8
Matthew Kleiner
photo by Yehia Elkersh 
K
ate Christison-Lagay grabbed a rubber 
brain off a countertop in the basement of Yale 
School of Medicine’s library and pried its two 
halves apart so that we could have a look inside. As a 
postdoctoral fellow in Dr. Hal Blumenfeld’s research 
lab, Christison-Lagay studies sensory perception, 
which she and her team believe can provide a model 
for human consciousness. She speaks seriously and 
energetically about brains, and clearly knows her way 
around one. After separating one of the lobes, she 
pointed to a small area marked in purple. “Here’s the 
first stop when someone sees something: the primary 
visual cortex,” she said. As she traced her fingertip 
forward through the cerebral cortex, I realized that 
the image of her moving finger was travelling down 
the very same pathway inside my own brain.


Behind glass panels lining the walls around us, 
hundreds of other brains—real human brains—
floated in jars of formaldehyde. Many were whole; 
others had been sliced to pieces like melons. They all 
shone a ghostly white through the ambient yellowish 
solution. A century ago, these brains belonged to 
some of neurosurgery’s first patients. Once transferred 
into jars, they experienced second lives as a reference 
library for brain researchers and doctors. In their 
current incarnation, they form the centerpiece of 
a one-room museum dedicated to the man who 
originally operated on them, and collected them from 
his deceased patients: Dr. Harvey Cushing.


“He was a really big deal,” Christison-Lagay said, 
leading me through the Cushing Center, as the eerie 
underground space is known. “He was able to reduce 
the mortality rate associated with brain surgery from 
around 80 percent to 10 percent.” In addition to the 
brains, the Cushing collection includes thousands 
of glass-plate photographs, microscopic slides, and 
journal notes, testaments to the doctor’s meticulous 
research practices—and the many advances he 
pioneered in modern medicine, both at the operating 
table and in the laboratory.

MIND MATTER 
Yale neuroscientists 
are probing the human 
brain for the secrets of 
consciousness.
P O I N T  O F  D E PA R T U R E


9
A couple of weeks after our visit, I sat in a small 
basement room across the street from the Cushing 
Center, staring at a computer screen full of static. 
My chin and forehead rested on padded bars, while a 
pair of adjustable lenses held my gaze from across the 
table. The robotic device, called a pupilometer, was 
learning to read my mind. 


Christison-Lagay and her colleagues in the 
Blumenfeld lab are working on solving one of the 
brain’s greatest mysteries: the physical basis of 
consciousness. They haven’t cut into any actual heads; 
rather, with the help of advanced imaging technology, 
they’ve been able to pinpoint electrical activity within 
the brain almost down to the level of individual 
cells. About a year ago, they published results 
from a breakthrough experiment, which involved 
flashing faces onto a computer screen and recording 
participants’ brain activity in response to the visual 
stimulus with an EEG (electroencephalography) test. 
The researchers are worried, however, that they 
may have switched on more of the brain than they 
intended to. They had asked participants to press a 
button indicating whether or not they had noticed 
the faces popping onto the screen. As a result, the 
researchers can’t be sure how much of the brain signal 
they recorded came from the simple visual perception 
of the face, and how much came from the participants 
mentally preparing to report what they’d seen. 
“We’re potentially conflating two different events,” 
Christison-Lagay explained.


The set of trials I was taking part in was supposed 
to help lay down the groundwork for an improved 
experiment, which the team has dubbed “the 
no-report paradigm.” Through a stream of white noise 
accompanying the fuzziness on the screen, I strained 
my ears to listen out for fleeting sounds, like a whistle, 
a water droplet, or a laser zap. I pressed a button 
whenever I heard something. In the meantime, the 
pupilometer kept tabs on my eyes. According to 
Christison-Lagay, “our pupils change size clearly in 
response to light and the things that we’re seeing, 
but they also change based on our physiological 
arousal state.” In other words, by comparing my pupil 
dilations to the responses I was giving on the keypad, 
the pupilometer was figuring out whether I’d had a 
conscious experience without me having to report it.


Hal Blumenfeld has spent most of his career working 
with epileptic patients, performing surgeries and 
helping to develop treatments. Epileptic seizures often 
involve a disruption of consciousness, and Blumenfeld 
believes that insights into the workings of healthy 
consciousness can “point the way toward possible 
therapies for when consciousness is abnormally 
affected by disease processes.” If a conscious network 
is shut down by a seizure, for example, doctors may 
be able to electrically stimulate that area if they know 
exactly where it is, and turn it back on.


In 1934, Harvey Cushing retired from medical 
practice to New Haven, and brought his brains with 
him. He died four years later, but neurosurgeons 
continued to consult his data base for decades. Once 
CT scans and MRIs hit the scene in the nineteen-
seventies, however, the brains were relegated to 
cramped storage shelves in the basement of the 
School of Medicine dorms, where they received only 
late-night visits from thrill-seeking students. In 1994, 
a Ph.D. student named Christopher Wahl approached 
his advisor about writing a thesis on the historical 
legacy of the brains, and administrators again took 
interest in Cushing’s materials. Since 2010, the 
collection has resided in its quietly lit, wood-paneled 
basement gallery, a kind of portal back in time to when 
humans’ most advanced knowledge of the brain came 
from hand-drawn sketches, photographic negatives of 
misshapen heads, and the organs themselves, spookily 
suspended in formaldehyde. 


Our current understanding of the physical 
basis of consciousness is equally primitive. The 
split-second examples of sensory perception that 
Blumenfeld and his team have studied are a far cry 
from what we consider to be the essence of human 
consciousness, what truly makes us who we are. Even 
when Blumenfeld’s researchers move on into the next 
areas they hope to explore, like motor planning—the 
processes that make us kick a foot out reflexively or 
decide to raise an arm—their findings won’t begin to 
describe the limitless complexities that add up to how 
we each think and feel. Cushing taught modern brain 
researchers that progress comes gradually, through 
careful record-keeping and rigorous analysis. “The 
plan is hopefully to understand as much as possible 
in space and time, what happens during a conscious 
event,” Blumenfeld said. “To drill down to the level 
of hundreds—tens—of milliseconds in order to see 
exactly which neuronal populations are involved in a 
conscious experience.” 


If there’s ever a museum built to commemorate the 
early days of consciousness research, I hope my pupils 
can be found in there somewhere, perhaps floating in 
a jar of formaldehyde. 
– Matthew Kleiner is a sophomore 
in Saybrook College.



**Title: what you told me about the fig tree**
**Author: Rachel Koh**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
– Rachel Koh is a junior in 
Silliman College.
what you told me about the ﬁg tree
ﬁrst the story:
mark and the others chanced upon the tree,
but it did not bear fruit.
so the disciples went hungry,
and jesus cursed the tree,
and the ﬁg tree withered and died.
second:
you are the impotent tree,
the circumstances the winter,
and i am mark, 
who will not be fed. 
you tell me at some point you will bear fruit
but just not now.
the time is not right,
and the shape of our surroundings is not right,
and your mind is not in the right place,
only i’ve heard this all before.
third:
i am the ﬁg tree
that wants to bear fruit for the hungry disciples,
circumstance reprises its role as winter,
and you are jesus, 
withering me down for something i cannot help or control.
and now i am punished and will never bear fruit again
even when winter is gone.
does it make you feel better 
to turn abandonment into a parable?
because you have not called once.
you said you hope beyond what hope permits 
that we will bear fruit again,
but you have not called, once.
so tell me now what i am:
jesus, mark, or the tree,
or something else in the story,
another disciple, an unmentioned bird,
the ungiving earth, a shadow at the side?    


**Title: SNAPSHOT**
**Author: Conor Johnson**
**Page number(s): 12**

Can Ned Lamont 
save Connecticut 
from a staggering 
budget crisis? 
In The 
Red



**Connecticut's Fiscal Crisis: Can Ned Lamont Fix It?**
**Author: Conor Johnson**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On September 17, at the Shubert Theatre, two blocks from Old Campus, Democratic gubernatorial candidate Ned Lamont took the stage for his second general election debate. Dressed in a crisp suit, not a hair astray, Lamont looked equal parts politician and businessman. Standing in front of televisions emblazoned with a large American flag, he battled Republican nominee Bob Stefanowski for almost an hour. Lamont fielded jab after jab about his privileged upbringing and his similarity to former governor Dannel Malloy, who left office with a 24 percent approval rating, but he remained undeterred. Despite the debate’s laser-like focus on Connecticut’s economy and budget, Lamont did not offer any specifics about how to solve the state’s fiscal crisis. Instead, he spun a cohesive narrative about his business acumen, a philosophy of inclusive governance, and a promise to fix Connecticut’s ills. 

On November 6, Lamont beat Stefanowski by forty-four thousand votes. He now faces a state budget $2 billion in the red, with billions more of debt anticipated in future years. Although the state’s economy has improved since the Great Recession, it lags significantly behind other New England states. How did Connecticut end up in this fiscal predicament? And what, if anything, can Lamont do about it?

In the latter half of the twentieth century, Connecticut’s economy shifted from manufacturing to finance. Companies like General Electric and Aetna, as well as more than four hundred hedge funds, fled bigger cities for Connecticut’s green pastures and favorable business climate. By some measures, Connecticut became the richest state in the nation.

But as the economy boomed, irresponsible money management doomed the state’s financial future. Connecticut’s public pension program was established in the late 1940s, but administrators didn’t add a single penny to it until 1971. When the state income tax was instituted in 1991, none of its revenue was used to pay off the state’s pension debt. Today, Connecticut’s program is the fourth-most underfunded of any state, and accounts for the majority of its debt.

David Schleicher, a Yale Law School professor who studies state finance, said that Connecticut politicians have long adhered to a “let-the-good-times-roll” philosophy, failing to fund benefit programs and assuming that continuous economic growth and a robust tax base will allow the state to catch up later. Today, “unfunded liabilities” — existing debts from state employee pensions, healthcare plans, and other debt bonds — account for more than half of Connecticut’s budget, and their cost is growing. According to Bruce Alexander, former vice president of Yale’s Office of New Haven and State Affairs, these liabilities now total around $100 billion, while Connecticut’s annual revenue is only $20 billion — the fourth worst pension underfunding in the country.

“The people who ran Connecticut for decades didn’t pay for the services they received,” said Schleicher. “If I could wave a magic wand, I would make people angry at the politicians representing their parents. That’s who did it.”

As debt continued to climb, the 2008 recession hit Connecticut’s economy hard — Malloy advisor Roy Occhiogrosso described the recession as the ‘icing on the cake’ of the state’s budgetary problems. Connecticut has raised taxes three times since 2009 in an effort to raise revenue; today, it has the second-highest amount of overall taxes per capita in the country. But the plan has backfired. According to statistics from the Department of Labor, Connecticut’s total economic output has declined by 3.3 percent since 2010. New York and Massachusetts both saw growth rates of over 10 percent during the same period.

In response, people and companies fled. Three billion dollars’ worth of citizens’ income left just between 2015 and 2016, and high-profile companies like General Electric have exited the state. This exodus has led to a decline in tax revenue, forcing Connecticut to chop subsidies and economic programs. Today, the state has the second-widest income gap in the country. For the past twenty years, Connecticut has consistently ranked among the five states with the fewest jobs created. And it now faces a $4.2 billion biennial budget deficit.

Joe Brennan, the CEO of the Connecticut Business and Industry Association (CBIA) pointed to the budget as one of the main drivers of business exodus from the state. “The biggest single factor has been the state’s fiscal condition — we’ve had ongoing budget issues with recurring deficits in the billions of dollars,” he said. “That makes it much more difficult for investors to have confidence in Connecticut.” In short, Connecticut cannot improve its economy until it gets its budgetary house in order.


Among many areas where the deficit has forced cuts is the state’s education system. In 2017, the Connecticut General Assembly reduced education spending for the first time in over a decade. A Connecticut Mirror analysis revealed that over 1,700 school district jobs were cut statewide that year. New Haven Superintendent Carol Birks, appointed in 2018, was immediately tasked with closing a $19.3 million deficit. She initially planned on firing around 1,000 part-time employees but after a public outcry, she instead laid off twenty-eight full-time employees. With Connecticut’s budget deep in the red, the situation statewide looks grim.


Enter Lamont, Greenwich cable television entrepreneur and twice-unsuccessful Democratic candidate for statewide office. Lamont is a man of contradictions. He’s played the political and business underdog, the leader of the last-seeded team who defies all odds to win, and yet he possesses a privileged background few can match. He is a fourth-generation graduate of Exeter and Harvard, the progeny of a long line of successful financiers. Following a brief stint after college as the editor of a small newspaper in Ludlow, VT, Lamont attended Yale School of Management and then made a fortune as the founder of Campus Televideo, an upstart college campus television company. Throughout the campaign, he framed his start in business as a David and Goliath story: the little guy took on the monopolized industry titans — and won.

Before he was elected governor, Lamont had held political office for just two years — from 1987 to 1989 — as a member of the Greenwich Board of Selectmen. But he has immersed himself in Connecticut politics over the past twenty years. Breaking away from his old-money Republican family, Lamont registered as a Democrat. In 2006, he challenged U.S. Senator Joe Lieberman from the left in the Democratic primary, relentlessly criticizing Lieberman’s support for the Iraq War, and shocked everyone with a win. Headlines hailed Lamont as a progressive darling, but Lieberman ran as an Independent and avenged his primary loss in the general election. 

After an unsuccessful run for governor in 2010, Lamont entered the race again last year and, in some sense, won by default. Although more than twenty-five candidates ran, few prominent Connecticut politicians were on the ballot, likely because of the tremendous financial difficulties and unpopular decisions any new governor would confront. Lamont was a popular face, and he poured $12 million of his own money into the campaign, cruising to victory.

Now, with the state’s economy reeling, the future of Connecticut and its residents may depend on the budget for the next two years, which Lamont is scheduled to present to the legislature by late February. 

What options does Lamont have to confront this crisis? According to Colin McEnroe, a radio host and political commentator on Hartford-based WNPR, Lamont has three ways to balance the budget: increasing revenue, cutting spending (which could mean scaling back crucial social services), or reworking contracts with state unions to cut back the pension and healthcare plans that remain woefully underfunded. “No responsible governor can tackle a problem of this magnitude without playing with all three of these dials,” said McEnroe.

During his campaign, Lamont avoided budgetary specifics and relied mainly on rhetoric. He touted his private-sector experience, arguing that he knew how to foster public-private partnerships and negotiate financial deals. In practice, though, Lamont’s options are extremely limited. “It’s going to be really painful,” said Schleicher, the Yale Law School professor. “There’s no magic bullet for the fiscal problems of Connecticut. There’s just a lot of suffering.”

Following the election, Lamont selected Melissa McCaw, who previously oversaw Hartford’s budget as the head of the Office of Policy and Management, as his budget director. Lieutenant Governor Susan Bysiewicz, a former state representative from Middletown who served as Connecticut Secretary of State from 1999 to 2011, said that she and Lamont are devising “creative solutions” to put Connecticut on sound fiscal footing without increasing taxes. She pointed to marijuana legalization and sports betting as two potentially significant sources of revenue, estimating they could together bring in $175 million every year. This sum, however, is an order of magnitude lower than the roughly $2 billion needed to close the deficit.

Bysiewicz also pointed towards a number of progressive policies — paid family leave, a $15 minimum wage, equal gender pay — that she hopes will attract young people to the state and revitalize the economy. “I’ve worked in Connecticut all my life. My two kids are in New York City,” she said. “We need to find ways to attract young people to the state.”

Lamont and Bysiewicz are searching all over for places to reduce spending. In his first State of the State Address on January 9, Lamont indicated he may try to seek big savings by regionalizing some services, such as fire departments, that are currently provided by each town; cutting state aid to cities; and attempting to rework the aforementioned state union contracts. When Bysiewicz and I spoke, she outlined a series of proposals to cut costs, including seeking more competitive contracts for state construction project bids, implementing policies to reduce nursing home costs, and continuing ex-Governor Malloy’s “Second Chance Society” program, which sought to reduce Connecticut’s prison population by lessening penalties for drug possession and enacting more lenient protocols for people charged with nonviolent crimes.

It remains to be seen whether Lamont’s business experience will translate to efficient government management and spending, as he has long promised. However, he has already shown some ability to negotiate deals with the private sector. During the recent government shutdown, he set up a partnership with local banks to provide interest-free loans to federal employees. Balancing the budget for current and future cycles may be prohibitively difficult, but Lamont has repeatedly pledged to do it. “I will present to you a budget which is in balance not just for a year, but for the foreseeable future,” he said in his January 9 address. “I come from the world of small business where the numbers have to add up at the end of the month or the lights go out.”  

Lamont is slated to present his first budget on February 20, but much about its specifics are still unclear. The only thing we know for sure is that Lamont is taking on a crisis decades in the making, one fueled by incompetence, a lack of foresight, and decades of politicians kicking the can down the road. He has made a career of defying the odds, from the unlikely success of his telecommunications startup to his unexpected Senate primary victory in 2006. It remains to be seen whether the self-proclaimed underdog can pull off his biggest upset yet.



**Title: FACING THE FLOOD**
**Author: Sarah Adams**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“T
his house is 115 years old,” Sal 
DeCola said as he guided me into 
a bright sunroom overlooking deep 
blue waters. It was one o’clock in the afternoon, 
clear skies, and low tide. We stood in DeCola’s 
home in Morris Cove, a neighborhood on 
the east bank of New Haven Harbor that he 
represents as an alder. The waves pushed up 
against a dark concrete barrier extending below 
the other dozen houses along the beach. DeCola 
patted the wall of the house and grinned widely. 
“It made it through the great storm of ’38, and all 
of the other ones in between to Sandy.” 

Not all of Morris Cove has fared well in foul 
weather. “When it floods, water runs along 
Lighthouse Road and Townsend Avenue,” 
DeCola said, holding out a map of the Morris 
Cove ward. He pointed inland from the shore, 
gesturing toward the center of the neighborhood. 
“And then there’s Dean Street—used to get so 
bad you could row a rowboat up Dean Street.”

In Fair Haven, just north of Morris Cove, 
historic sections of the neighborhood regularly 
flood during heavy thunderstorms. Places near 
the Mill River, like Criscuolo Park, are especially 
at risk. “My friends brought their kids to the 
playground, and water was covering the whole 
area—a whole foot of water,” Chris Ozyck, a 
resident of Fair Haven, told me. “The playground 
was built just last year.” Other floods have blocked 
off some of Fair Haven’s nine points of entry, 
Ozyck said, forcing vehicles to take longer routes.

Hurricanes along the Connecticut seaboard 
cause storm surges—temporary rises in sea 
level—in the Sound. The worst flooding occurs 
when they coincide with high tide. New Haven 
dodged a bullet during Hurricane Sandy: the 
peak storm surge happened just two hours 
before high tide. “Had Sandy arrived two hours 
later, we would have had an extra two feet of 
water.” recalled Giovanni Zinn, head of the city 
engineering department. “We would have been 
in really deep trouble.”

For coastal communities like New Haven, 
flooding is the most urgent threat of climate 
change. Rising sea levels and increased rain and 
snowfall overload drainage systems, especially in 
places at low elevation. In 2016, residents and 
more than thirty coalition groups concerned 
about climate change petitioned Mayor Toni 
Harp for the city to update its 2004 Climate Action 
Plan, which focused only on curbing greenhouse 
gas emissions. In January 2018, the city adopted 
a much broader plan called the New Haven 
Climate & Sustainability Framework. Over 
thirty residents and stakeholders participated in 
six focus groups—on electric power, buildings, 
transportation, materials management, land use 
and green infrastructure, and food—that worked 
to address climate change and other sustainability 
challenges facing the city. 

While the plan doesn’t enforce policy changes 
or increase government funding, it provides 
a wide-ranging set of recommendations. The 
authors advised the city to adopt a tax or ban on 
single-use plastic items, hire an energy expert, 
and implement a new ordinance to incorporate 
green building practices. The document also 
details ways residents can contribute, such as 
riding mass transit and decreasing outdoor water 
use. “It’s not just a plan for what municipalities 
should do,” Zinn said. “It’s really a plan for what 
the community at large can do.”

Like the 2004 plan, which was partly spurred 
by the U.S.’s decision to back out of negotiations 
on the Kyoto Protocol in 2001, New Haven’s 2018 
plan responds to federal environmental policy—
in particular, President Trump’s decision to back 
out of the Paris Agreement. “Municipalities 
and state governments need to, and—in some 
cases—are stepping up,” Justin Elicker told me 
during a meeting at Yale’s Kroon Hall, where the 
School of Forestry & Environmental Studies is 
headquartered. Elicker served on the Board of 
Alders from 2009 to 2013. For the past five years, 
he directed the New Haven Land Trust. In mid-
January, he entered the 2019 mayoral race with 
environmental concerns as a key plank of his 
platform.

So far, the framework has inspired some action. 
Over two hundred bioswales have been installed 
in the regions of downtown sloped towards the 
water, which are most prone to flooding. These 
colorful three-by-five foot patches of sidewalk, 
filled with clusters of flowers and green grass, 
filter stormwater and reduce the rate at which 
it enters the sewer system. Additionally, with 
an $8 million state grant, the Long Wharf and 
East Shore neighborhoods are each establishing 
“living shorelines,” which combine intertidal 
marshes and rock sills to reinforce the fragile coast. 
But some residents and groups expected more 
from the city’s new plan. “It’s not just a ‘report,’” said 
Chris Schweitzer. “It’s meant to be implemented.” 
Schweitzer is a local environmental activist and lead 
organizer of the New Haven Climate Movement, 
a grassroots organization that strives to raise 
awareness about climate change and call residents 
to action. When I met with him in mid-November, 
snow was falling fast outside. “Even this amount of 
precipitation, this early on in the year, is abnormal,” 
he noted. According to the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, annual precipitation 
in New Haven has consistently exceeded the 
national average since the nineteen-eighties. From 
2010 to 2014, Connecticut experienced a higher 
number of extreme precipitation events — defined 
as storms with over two inches of rainfall — than 
it had in any five-year period since NOAA began 
recording state data in the nineteen-fifties.

Schweitzer believes the city’s current efforts 
are only a start. “I don’t have a problem with 
bioswales—they’re great things,” he said. “But 
we need to have an equally robust response to 
greenhouse gases.” The framework includes an 
interim goal of reducing the city’s greenhouse gas 
emissions to 55 percent of 1999 levels by 2030. 
The city will need to enact aggressive policies to 
meet this goal. Money is a limiting factor. Installing 
smart electricity meters in buildings, expanding 
sidewalk infrastructure, creating a revolving fund in 
the city budget for energy efficiency projects—each 
suggestion requires significant funding. Although 
bioswales in New Haven cost only $15,000—half 
the cost in New York City—even relatively small 
expenditures are a burden for a city $1.5 billion in 
debt.

“A lot of it is waiting for disaster to happen, 
then funding happens—a somewhat reactionary 
of looking at it,” said Zinn, the city engineer. The 
floodgates at the dam of Morris Cove account for 
sea level rises of only thirteen feet. If the tides rise 
higher, the neighborhood could flood. Just last year, 
a seawall collapsed in Quinnipiac River Park at the 
eastern edge of Fair Haven. The area subsequently 
flooded. 

Elicker has several ideas about how the city 
could better address climate change. Encouraging 
Yale to pay money into the CTtransit system 
instead of maintaining its own shuttle system 
could eliminate a redundant transportation system 
and increase overall ridership. Elicker sees this as 
an environmental issue on top of a social justice 
issue. “It’s unethical that you have Yale shuttle, 
that brings all of the Yale-affiliated people to their 
destination.” said Elicker. “And then overlapping 
many of those routes is CTtransit, which is for 
everyone else.” Establishing internal carbon taxes, 
which charge departments based on their monthly 
carbon emissions, could incentivize municipal 
departments. Elicker also points out that New 
Haven could join cities throughout the country, 
from Ann Arbor to New London, CT, which are 
divesting from fossil fuels.

As a climate activist, Schweitzer said he is frustrated 
by the general lack of awareness and participation 
by the community. In September, 350 CT, the New 
Haven Climate Movement, and other Connecticut 
environmental organizations held a climate rally 
on the Green to demand environmental justice and 
renewable energy. “There were 250 people total at 
the event.” Schweitzer shook his head. “250 people, 
2018. Do people not get it?” 

Elicker acknowledges Schweitzer’s frustration, 
but also recognizes that “people are worried about 
putting food on the table, getting a job, crime in 
their neighborhoods, and climate change is not 
on the forefront of their mind as an issue.” Still, 
he says, climate change is “the crisis of our time,” 
and city officials “need to play a leadership role in 
thinking both short-term and long-term.”




**Title: New Haven's Rising Tides**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
19
FEBRUARY 2019
– Sarah Adams is a junior in 
Morse College.
As our meeting ended, Elicker showed me a map 
published by the Nature Conservancy, a national 
environmental nonprofit, projecting future sea 
levels for New Haven in 2080. On the map, dark 
blue, light blue, and lighter blue-green pixels 
scatter along the coastline and spill over the banks 
of the city’s rivers. The darker the shade, the higher 
the flooding levels estimated for that area. Long 
Wharf, Union Station, and IKEA are under light or 
medium blue. English Station, the old power plant, 
is dark blue—gone. Across New Haven Harbor, 
Tweed Airport, Morris Cove, and Fort Hale Park 
are also under a layer of dark blue, as are the Port of 
New Haven’s petroleum tanks, the city’s wastewater 
treatment plant, and Route 1, all east of Downtown. 
Consequences of a storm event in that area could be 
catastrophic. “The amount of pollution that would 
go into the harbor…” Elicker’s voice trailed off.
In Morris Cove, DeCola and I stepped outside 
onto the porch for a better look at the waters. He 
took a deep breath of air and sighed. “It’s beautiful 
when the sun is shining, and the wind is blowing 
the boats,” he said. So far, the residents that live in 
houses along the cove have been lucky: the storms 
that have threatened in the past haven’t coincided 
with high tide. Although disaster prevention 
measures, like seawalls, may keep the city dry for 
now, New Haven and other coastal cities around 
the world are depending on large-scale emissions 
reductions to stay afloat. Below us, the waves gently 
lap against the concrete wall. As DeCola reminds 
me, “It’s all about the timing.”


**Title: PIKE’S PATTERN OF NEGLECT**
**Author: Candice Wang**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

O
n the evening of June 26, Erika Lopez was 
curling up on the couch to watch TV after 
a day of work at the District Attorney’s office 
in Manhattan when her phone buzzed. The words that 
flashed across the screen made her stomach drop. Jheri 
Richards, Lopez’s off-campus housemate, had frantically 
texted her that a Yale student staying in New Haven over 
the summer had been walking past the Kappa Alpha 
Theta sorority house at 277 Crown Street, where Lopez 
and Richards live during the school year, when he noticed 
that the windows had been smashed in. Panicked, Lopez 
called 9-1-1. When police arrived on site later that night, 
they found that the windows had only been partially 
shattered. No one had broken in.
Relieved, Lopez contacted Pike International, the 
real-estate company Theta rents from, asking them to 
replace the broken windows. On July 5, Sol Lipschitz, 
one of Pike’s housing managers, sent an email promising 
to replace the windows. After three weeks of silence, 
Lipschitz emailed on August 1 saying he had ordered 
new windows. The repair didn’t take place until late 
August. The windows had remained broken for nearly 
two months.
This event only pierces the surface of Lopez’s 
discontent with Pike. Today, walking through the Crown 
Street house, you’ll encounter orange stains and holes 
in the ceiling, doors that don’t close properly, and a 
malfunctioning boiler. A year before the window incident, 
the lock on the front door broke while the house stood 
empty for the summer. When a Theta employee visited 
for a routine check-up on the house, he found several 
strangers squatting in the foyer.
According to Lopez, Pike has consistently failed to 
respond to these issues in a timely fashion. I interviewed 
six student tenants renting from Pike for this story. All six 
cited issues with the company, from unresponsive property 
managers to withheld security deposits, continuous leaks, 
and broken heaters. After two rounds of responses to 
general questions about long-term business goals and the 
number of units they own, Pike representatives did not 
respond to multiple inquiries about tenants’ complaints.
“Do not rent from Pike,” said Lopez. “That’s the moral 
of the story.”
-----
A five-minute stroll through the periphery of Yale’s 
campus along Lynwood Place, Crown Street, and 
Edgewood Avenue reveals countless Pike logos, plastered 
on brick walls and hanging over doorways. Pike owns 
eight hundred units throughout the city and commands a 
small army of around fifty direct employees, one hundred 
indirect contractors, and around fifteen maintenance 
employees from the company’s compact office at 19 
Howe St. 
Pike was founded in 2000 by Shmully Hecht, who 
is also one of the founders of Shabtai, a Jewish secret 
society at Yale. After the 2008 recession, which increased 
the unemployment rate in New Haven by around 40 
percent by 2010 and left 1,800 properties vacant, Hecht 
and his employees went on a property-buying spree, 
purchasing foreclosed buildings, refurbishing them, and 
leasing them to Yale students and New Haven residents. 
In a 2011 article in the New Haven Independent, editor 
Paul Bass wrote, “Pike is increasingly determining where 
New Haven sleeps, eats, and works.”
According to Lipschitz, the Pike property manager, 
the company rents to “many hundreds of Yale students, 
faculty, and employees,” and has custom designed and 
built fifteen “luxury houses” for members of the Yale 
community. Lipschitz emphasized Pike’s dedication 
to historical preservation and customer service. Their 
mission, he wrote in an email, involves “providing a local 
charm, respect for historic architecture, and the best 
customer service in New Haven.”
In 2017, the Environmental Protection Agency 
charged Pike for violation of lead-safety rules. In fourteen 
different rental units, Pike failed to disclose information 
about the presence of lead-based paint, which contains 
a neurotoxin that stunts children’s mental development. 
A door at 277 Crown Street.



**Title:  Unnamed Article**
**Author: Candice Wang**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“No matter how serious Pike’s 
neglect of student rental properties 
has been, David Corliss believes 
that New Haveners have it worse.“
According to the Independent, at least one child living in 
a Pike apartment on Chapel St. had significant levels of 
lead in their blood. Pike agreed to a $121,000 settlement 
with the EPA.
John DeStefano, who served as New Haven’s mayor 
from 1994 to 2014 and is now a political science 
lecturer at Yale, told me that Pike’s business strategy 
is to target the significant population of Yale students 
moving off-campus. According to the Yale Daily News, 
about 25 percent of upperclassmen lived off-campus 
in 2009. The proportion increased to 34.1 percent of 
upperclassmen––43.5 percent of seniors and just under 
a quarter of juniors––by the fall of 2018. “Pike has made 
a market decision to invest in properties adjacent to the 
campus or to the Yale shuttle stops,” DeStefano said. 
Lipschitz said that Pike staff help orient students, who 
are typically first-time renters, to the leasing process. 
“Our leasing dept [sic] has over one hundred years of 
collective experience assisting first time renters transition 
into their first private dwelling space,” he wrote.
Lopez and her housemates received no assistance of 
that sort. 


At 9 a.m. on a crisp Tuesday morning in January, I 
perched on the kitchen stool at the Pike-owned Theta 
house while Lopez fried eggs on the stove. After breakfast, 
she took me on a tour of the property, her heeled black 
boots echoing throughout the home. 
We started at the top floor of the spacious three-story 
home. Next to a skylight, an approximately four-foot-
long, mildewy orange water stain scarred the third floor 
ceiling. The stain, presumably caused by a roof leak, 
first appeared nearly a year ago. Lopez said that Pike has 
repeatedly promised to fix it and then failed to appear.
Passing through the living room, we descended to the 
boiler room in the basement. Surrounded by crumbling 
brick and cobwebs in the hot, humid darkness, I felt a drop 
of condensation drip onto my cheek. “It’s literally fucking 
Stranger Things down here,” said Lopez, laughing.
The heat has been spontaneously shutting down several 
times a month for the past year. Lopez first emailed Pike 
about the heat on Saturday, November 11, 2017. Pike 
promised to have the heater fixed on December 4. On 
December 5, Carroll Yanicelli, a Theta-employed liaison 
between the students and Pike, emailed Lopez and told 
her that Pike had sent an employee to fix the problem. 
“There should be steady and ongoing heat,” Yanicelli 
wrote in an email.
In late December of 2018, the boiler began to shut 
off sporadically again. Whenever this happens, Lopez has 
to go downstairs every four hours to reset the heat. The 
issue has yet to be resolved, despite repeated emails from 
Theta to Pike’s representatives. Raphael Ramos, Deputy 
Director of the Livable City Initiative, a city housing 
agency, said that when tenants repeatedly reset their 
furnaces, it can increase the risk of a small explosion.


No matter how serious Pike’s neglect of student rental 
properties has been, David Corliss believes that New 
Haveners have it worse. In the summer of 2016, Corliss, 
then an attorney at Flood Law Firm, moved into a Pike 
apartment leasing for $900 a month on Chapel Street. In 
November, as temperatures dropped, Corliss tried to turn 
on the heat. But the radiators stayed cold. 
Corliss bought a space heater and wrapped himself 
and his cat in layers of blankets and comforters. He 
called and sent multiple emails to Pike, but they never 
came to make repairs. After a week of unbearable cold, 
Corliss took a day off from work to go to Pike’s office. He 
stood in the lobby until an administrator confirmed that 
a contractor was going to fix his radiator. Only then did a 
Pike employee visit his apartment to repair the heat.
A week later, the radiator broke down again. When 
Pike failed to respond to his messages and calls, Corliss, 
frustrated, decided to withhold his rent. “I won’t pay rent 
for an apartment that doesn’t have heat,” Corliss said. 
Pike responded with a warning: if Corliss didn’t pay his 
rent, he could face eviction. In February, only seven 
months after moving in, Corliss vacated the Chapel 
Street apartment.
The legalities of housing may appear murky even to 
experienced renters like Corliss. Yonatan Zamir, a staff 
attorney at New Haven Legal Assistance who specializes 
in housing cases, said that tenants don’t receive enough 
information on the renting process. “People don’t 
necessarily know what their rights are,” said Zamir. “That 
applies to the student population as well. No matter how 
educated you are, you may not have ever been educated 
about entering a new lease.”
According to Zamir, the most common mistake 
tenants make is withholding rent. “Don’t withhold your 
rent until you’ve gone to great lengths,” he said. “A lease 
is a contract. If you don’t want a landlord to come after 
you in court, and sully things up for you legally, you want 
to avoid that by protecting yourself.” When issues arise, 
tenants should keep paying rent and screenshot relevant 
emails, save letters, and take photographs for evidence, 
Zamir said. If the problem persists, tenants can go to 
small claims court with proof. 
The most common form of tenant exploitation, Zamir 
added, is withholding security deposits. New Haven’s 
apartments have a high turnover rate, and some landlords 
try to squeeze extra money from their properties by 
unfairly withholding security deposits after tenants move 
out. 
“Turnover is a great way to make money in the housing 
market,” Zamir said. “They say, ‘You trashed the place, 
and I had to spend $1,000 cleaning it up.’ Next thing you 
know, your security deposit is gone.”
Taylor, a Yale senior, signed a lease on a Pike property 
for last academic year. (Taylor uses they/them pronouns. 
Their name has been changed.) In August of 2017, they 
entered a house in disrepair. No hot water came from the 
taps for the first two weeks, the stairs were “falling apart,” 
and by spring, rats had infested the kitchen. 
Last July, after their lease had ended, Taylor emailed 
Lipschitz about their security deposit of several thousand 
dollars. Lipschitz promised that the funds would be 
returned within the next few days. Two months later, on 
September 23, Taylor emailed Lipschitz again. That day, 
Lipschitz responded that he would look into the matter. 
Since then, Taylor has had no contact with him. Pike still 
has not returned the security deposit. 
In August, Taylor began renting a house from Farnam 
Realty Group, a real estate company that manages around 
six hundred properties and was founded by former Pike 
employee Carol Horsford in 2014. “In some ways,” Taylor 
said, “[Farnam is] the opposite of Pike.”
Before Horsford gives tenants their keys, she makes 
them sit through a brief PowerPoint presentation about 
their leasing rights. The presentation includes three 
sections, titled “Basic Home Maintenance,” “How to 
be a Good Tenant,” and “How to be a Good Neighbor.” 
Student tenants who rent from Pike, such as Melissa, a 
Yale senior, say their experience with Pike began very 
differently. (Melissa’s name has been changed.)
“I don’t think they did anything instructive,” Melissa 
said. “There was a lot of negotiation with the lease 
because we didn’t want the wool to be pulled over our 
eyes.”
Melissa said her housing manager told her Pike plans 
to increase the rent on her apartment by 10 percent next 
year. She’s moving out, but she is certain that another 
group of unknowing Yale students will move into the 
apartment, even with its malfunctioning heating system, 
perpetually clogged drains, and raccoon infestation. She 
herself had ignored friends’ warnings to stay away when 
she started leasing from Pike in August. Melissa said she 
felt she didn’t have much choice, given her budget. “Pike 
is going to find people who are gonna pay for it,” she said, 
“and the whole cycle is going to continue.”
– Candice Wang is a 
sophomore in Berkeley 
College.



**Title: From 1967...**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
From 1967...

...to now.

Over 250 issues.
51 years of  history.
Presenting TNJ’s Online Archives 
issuu.com/thenewjournal


**Title: Yale Institute of Sacred Music Upcoming Events**
**Page number(s): 26**

yale institute of sacred music
Upcoming Events
all events are free; no tickets or reservations  ism.yale.edu
Ineffable Manifestations
An exhibition curated by Jon Seals inaugurating the Miller Hall 
exhibition space
Miller Hall, 406 Prospect St., New Haven
Opening Reception and Gallery Talk
Friday, February 22, 4 pm
 
The Academic Chamber Choir of Uppsala
Stefan Parkman, conductor
Music of Scandinavia
Battell Chapel, 400 College St., New Haven
Andrew Sullivan
Author, editor, political commentator
Technology and the Soul
Saint Thomas More Catholic Chapel, 268 Park St., New Haven
Yale Schola Cantorum
David Hill, conductor
Łukaszewski: Ascensio Domini
world premiere, and 
Haydn: Lord Nelson Mass
Woolsey Hall, 500 College St., New Haven
on display through 
june 18, 2019
weekdays 9–4  
except holidays 
friday, march 29 
7:30 pm
tuesday, april 9 
5:30 pm
friday, may 3 


**Title: Yale Center for British Art Internships**
**Page number(s): 27**

YA L E 
C E N T E R 
F O R 
B R I T I S H 
A R T
The Yale Center for British Art, through the generosity 
of Nancy Horton Bartels and her late husband, Henry  
E. Bartels, is pleased to offer paid academic-year and  
summer internships to Yale undergraduates. Awarded 
annually, these internships introduce students to 
museum operations and best practices in the curatorial, 
conservation, and administrative departments.
 
For more information and to submit an online application,  
please visit britishart.yale.edu/education/yale/internships
or contact Research (ycba.research@yale.edu | +1 203 432 2824).



**Title: Robert Zirpolo’s Flying Machine**
**Author: Zola Canady**
**Page number(s): 30-31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
M
ost flying machines are undeniably 
cool. Jets, sleek and swift, play chicken 
with the ends of runways to earn their 
ascent. Helicopters, brash and insectile, thump the 
earth from their skids with blades that whir with 
lethal intent. 

But humanity’s earliest aircraft is different. The 
hot air balloon has never been much more than a 
flammable fabric sack, connected to an equally 
flammable wicker basket, powered by a giant 
flamethrower and stuffed with passengers whose 
quarter- to mid-life crises aren’t severe enough to 
justify skydiving. 

As instruments of travel, balloons leave a lot to 
be desired. They can’t even be steered—or, at least, 
they don’t come with flight sticks. Learning to fly a 
balloon begins, as all fun things do, with a physics 
lesson: hot air rises over cooler air. From their 
baskets, pilots manipulate the fire burning above 
their heads; igniting it elevates the balloon, while 
extinguishing it allows the craft to descend. As the 
balloon climbs and falls, it gets pushed around by 
wind patterns that split the sky like layers in a cake. 

Because open flames and gusts of wind are less-
than-exact control mechanisms, balloons don’t have 
dedicated runways or helipads. Any flat patch of dirt 
or asphalt has to suffice as a landing spot. 

That’s exactly how Robert Zirpolo, a veteran 
balloonist, likes it. He has flown tours over 
Connecticut 
for 
the 
past 
thirty-eight 
years, 
cultivating over that time a cloud-gray moustache 
that overwhelms his upper lip and short gray curls 
that poke out from the baseball cap covering his 
mostly-bald head. Zirpolo can fly single- and multi-
engine planes, too, but he prefers balloons. He 
remembers what a pilot friend told him years ago: 
“The best part about ballooning is, it makes no sense 
at all.” 

—

Perched in his wicker basket, Zirpolo reaches up 
toward an oxidized metal burner and flicks open its 
blast valve. Liquid propane shoots from fuel tanks 
nestled near his knees, through thick black tubes 
wrapped around arched bamboo rods, and into the 
burner’s vaporizing coils. A jet of dragon’s breath 
erupts into the October air, burning blue, white, 
and orange-yellow as it smothers the surrounding 
area in soupy heat. 

Then Zirpolo shuts the valve, choking the flame. 
The 7 a.m. air reverts to a biting 38 degrees. His 
fiery engine, hotter than a thousand ovens, is ready; 
the rest of his balloon, scattered on the dewy grass of 
a private airfield in Bethlehem, Connecticut, is not. 

Using a ripcord-powered industrial fan, Zirpolo 
forces one hundred and five thousand cubic 
feet of air into the massive nylon balloon, which 
is patterned with gold, scarlet, and dark-green 
arrowheads arranged against a blue background. 
The open-bottomed bundle of fabric grows from 
the ground like a bulbous blister, its ribbed surface 
rippling in the breeze. Once taut, it looks like a 
hundred-foot lightbulb turned on its side. Having 
tethered the balloon to the bamboo rods, he leans 
his basket over, aims the attached burner into the 
balloon’s mouth, and blasts fire into it until the 
entire apparatus stands upright. 

Zirpolo has spent the past week studying weather 
reports, memorizing wind patterns, and staking 
out possible landing spots. He’s sent up a small 
test balloon that morning to see where the wind is 
actually blowing. And he’s watched less-experienced 
pilots—whom he calls “the real test balloons”—take 
off from an adjacent airstrip and disappear over the 
trees. He’s ready to launch. 

In the sky, he’ll keep track of a fuel gauge, 
an altimeter, a vertical speed indicator, and a 
pyrometer, which measures the temperature inside 
the balloon. He’ll relay his location to his ground 
crew, and adjust the open flame above his head so 
that his balloon doesn’t drift toward a major city 
or out over the Atlantic. “Nothing is automated 
whatsoever, so your brain is constantly engaged in 
what you’re doing,” he said. On different flights in 
the past, he’s done all this at eighteen thousand feet, 
at 115 miles per hour, and at 27 degrees below zero. 

Once, after he landed in a schoolyard in Ireland, a 
student walked out from the assembled crowd and 
whispered to Zirpolo, “Tell the teachers there’s no 
homework today.” The pilot proceeded to announce 
that, according to American custom, all homework 
was to be suspended upon the sighting of a hot 
air balloon. He hit the blast valve as the students 
cheered and the teachers’ smiles dropped. 

There are ways to have fun that don’t involve 
barreling through the air in a craft cobbled together 
from fabric and wicker and fire. And there are 
certainly more efficient forms of transportation. So 
why become an aeronaut? 

Part of the answer might be temperamental. 
Ballooning is a study in iconoclasm: its history is full 
of wanderers, thinkers, tinkerers, failures, loafers, 
coasters, charmers, schemers, pathbreakers, and one 
intrepid Frenchman who tried to inflate a balloon 
with combustible gas he had extracted from fecal 
 31




**Title: The High Life**
**Author: [No author listed]**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“THE GOLDEN AGE 
OF PROFESSIONAL 
BALLOONING ENDED 
JUST NINETEEN 
MONTHS AFTER IT 
BEGAN, WHEN THE 
FIRST AERONAUT 
DIED A FIERY 
DEATH AT SIX 
THOUSAND FEET.”
matter. 

But sometimes Zirpolo talks like there’s something 
transcendent about the whole thing. Like when he 
was chopping garlic in his central Connecticut 
home, and I asked him over the phone about the 
kinds of sensations he can only feel in a balloon. 
He stopped the slicing, thought for a second, 
then answered by telling me what he tells nervous 
potential passengers: 

“This is what it feels like to be in a balloon. Sit 
in a kitchen chair, next to a window. Look out the 
window, and your eyes can see—but your body does 
not feel—the ground move away from the building 
you’re in. There’s no rocking sensation. You just look 
out the window, and you’re watching the ground 
move away. You don’t feel that the building you’re 
in is now moving one way or the other. It looks like 
somebody just, very slowly, picked it up—you didn’t 
feel them pick it up, it just happened, and all of a 
sudden the ground started moving underneath you. 
“If I sit you in a balloon basket,” he continued, 
“and put a blindfold on you, other than the fact that 
you hear the burner roaring above your head, I can 
make it so you couldn’t even feel yourself leaving 
the ground. You can’t get that feeling anywhere else, 
with anything. Airplanes, helicopters—any other 
flying machine besides the balloon makes a hell of 
a racket.” 

Zirpolo is flying in the age of Icarus while the rest 
of us are flying United. 


Joseph Montgolfier, the inventor of the hot air 
balloon, was such a layabout that his descendants 
call toilet paper papier de Joseph the way the rest 
of France calls hot air balloons montgolfières. “A 
dreamer and a maverick,” Charles Gillispie called 
him in his history of ballooning, The Montgolfier 
Brothers and the Invention of Aviation. “The very 
type of the inventor, imaginative with objects and 
processes, impractical in business and affairs.”

In 1782, stricken with boredom while attending 
a “diploma mill” in Avignon, Joseph built a three-
by-four-foot thin wooden frame, stretched a piece 
of taffeta cloth over it, and lit a few scraps of paper 
underneath. The lighter-than-air contraption hit 
the ceiling. He immediately wrote to his brother, 
Etienne, “Get in a supply of taffeta and of cordage, 
quickly, and you will see one of the most astonishing 
sights in the world.” 

Joseph and Etienne, inheritors of a paper mill, 
soon became the Wright Brothers of ballooning. 
They started on their path to national acclaim in 
the summer of 1783, which they spent terrorizing 
the French countryside with experimental balloons. 
Powered by burning straw, their unmanned paper 
constructions almost always incinerated upon 
returning to earth. The few that didn’t suffered at 
the hands of peasants who thought the glowing, 
zigzagging orbs were the work of the Devil. 

The montgolfières caught the attention of the 
French crown, however. At Versailles, King Louis 
XVI, suspecting a flying ball of fire might have 
some military applications, watched closely as the 
Montgolfier brothers exhibited their invention 
with appropriate pomp and circumstance. At 
the first cannon blast, a sheep, duck, and rooster 
marched into the balloon basket; at the second, the 
animals ascended six hundred meters in the air and 
absconded from the royal palace. Impressed, the 
king thought prisoners should be sent up next. 

One observer of the Versailles test was Jean-
François Pilâtre de Rozier, a twenty-six-year-old 
who had already made his name in science-
obsessed Paris, the Silicon Valley of its day. During 
public lectures sponsored by the king’s brother, he 
wowed Parisian elites by exhaling hydrogen onto 
a candle and breathing fire. He also tested a self-
made respirator by lying on a pile of dung for thirty 
minutes. After watching the montgolfière drift away, 
Pilâtre followed the quacking and crowing to a 
spot in the Wood of Vaucresson, three and a half 
kilometers from the launch site, where he found the 
royal animals alive and relatively unscathed. Soon 
afterwards, he volunteered for the Montgolfiers’ 
first manned experiments. Pilâtre hoped ballooning 
would increase his standing in a nation captivated 
by scientific spectacle. 


A hundred ninety-seven years later, in 1980, 
Robert Zirpolo got into ballooning to impress a girl. 
He was courting an airplane pilot-in-training, and 
thought a balloon ride might be his “in.” He was 
wrong. “It bored the crap out of her,” he said. Their 
first time as passengers, there was little wind, and lots 
of heat. They hovered in place, landed in the woods, 
and had to haul balloon and basket a hundred yards 
to the nearest road. 

Zirpolo was in his early twenties at the time. 
He worked at an oyster bar in Kingfield, Maine, 
a ski town at the base of Sugarloaf Mountain. 
Kingfielders didn’t plan their social calls; everyone 
bumped into everyone else on the mountain. Most 
mornings, he’d ski down gently curving slopes and 
take in the beauty of his chosen home, a world away 
from his native Queens. “I miss that like nobody can 
understand,” he said. 

He kept ballooning after that first flight, learning 
how to fly from a master in Portland. At least, he 
tried to. Flying, according to Zirpolo, involves skills 
and instincts that develop over years, even decades. 
“When I started flying, nobody told me I was ever 
going to start landing in cul-de-sacs with below-
ground power lines, or on a street, or a backyard, 
or a front yard. That wasn’t part of the training,” he 
said. “Good experience is obtained through bad 
decisions.” 

In 1981, Zirpolo injured his knee as a passenger 
in a single-engine plane crash, and had to recover at 
a friend’s house in Southington, Connecticut. He 
brought his balloon with him. Walking long distances 
was challenging, but he could still stand in a basket 
and operate a burner. One of the first people to fly 
over the state as commercial ballooning took off in 
the ’80s, Zirpolo attracted emergency responders 
concerned about his fire-breathing flying machine, 
including, once, a Waterbury cop who arrested him 
after landing because, Zirpolo remembers the officer 
saying, “this must be illegal.” (It wasn’t; Waterbury 
police quickly released him.) Yet the unusual craft 
“ON DIFFERENT 
FLIGHTS IN THE 
PAST, ZIRPOLO HAS 
DONE ALL THIS AT 
EIGHTEEN THOUSAND 
FEET, AT 115 MILES 
PER HOUR, AND AT 
27 DEGREES BELOW 
ZERO.”


**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: Robert Scaramuccia**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
also drew plenty of spectators—and a few interested 
passengers. After enough people asked for rides, 
the pilot realized he could make a business out of 
a favorite hobby, and maybe earn enough money 
on summer flights to afford winterlong vacations 
on Sugarloaf. Soon after, he founded Berkshire 
Balloons.


Few aeronauts joined Zirpolo back then, but 
ballooning, both as a tourism business and as 
a hobby, has grown ever since—partly because 
Zirpolo is around to train new pilots. Now, when 
he’s floating above the Farmington Valley west of 
Hartford, his passengers preoccupied with the fall 
foliage, he can chat on a long-range radio with a few 
of the Connecticut Lighter than Air Society’s fifty-
odd members. 


Berkshire Balloons has never really paid the bills. 
It’s more like a “bad habit,” something he hopes will 
pay for itself even if it can’t support a family. During 
the week, Zirpolo, now in his sixties, directs pilot 
training for Gama Aviation, which charters private 
jets for corporate clients. (“I fly a desk,” he said.) 
On weekend mornings, weather permitting, he flies 
balloon tours, clocking about a hundred flight-hours 
a year. 


“The job is not flying,” he said. The job is attracting 
customers and repairing balloons. Flying—eyeing 
the pyrometer and manning the blast valve while 
passengers FaceTime their children from the sky—
is the “cake of the job.” 


“The best part about this business,” he said, “is 
that I get to go every time.” 


—
On the airfield in Bethlehem, Zirpolo’s balloon 
is ready to ascend. Two twenty-something brothers, 
along with a man celebrating his seventieth 
birthday, join the pilot in the basket. It’s a snug fit. 
The balloon could maybe accommodate another 
person, but Zirpolo isn’t about to offer me a free 
ride in front of passengers who paid almost $300 for 
this early-morning flight. He unleashes a burst of 
flame—the last bit of heat needed to make the air 
inside the craft less dense than the air outside. The 
balloon detaches from the Earth. 


The free ride I am offered gets fifteen miles to 
the gallon and remains woefully earthbound. 
Zirpolo has left me behind with his chase crew: 
longtime friend Jude Russell and Kristen Brighenti, 
his partner of almost two decades. The three of us 
will tail the balloon in a seventeen-year-old, twelve-
seat Chevy Express, ready to disassemble the craft 
wherever it happens to land. With the burner still in 
earshot, we hop inside, rattle past a turkey, and start 
pursuing the aeronaut. 


An hour later, we’re idling on a bridge in a small 
town north of Waterbury. Zirpolo, suspended 
somewhere in the foggy south, is checking in with 
Brighenti on his long-range radio, trying to decide 
where to land. He wants to know where the chase 
crew is. Brighenti brings the microphone to her 
mouth and tells the balloonist that we’re parked 
by a seafood shack called Crabby Al’s. She knows 
he has no idea where it is; she just finds the name 
funny. Russell, helpfully, chimes in with a nearby 
highway exit. That satisfies the pilot, who goes back 
to charting his course. 


From the title “chase crew,” I’d expected a 
high-stakes hunt. Instead, I get a tour of central 
Connecticut, with highlights like Red’s Hardware, 
Jillie’s Ice Cream Parlor, and the ESPN broadcast 
headquarters in Bristol. While heat blasts from the 
dashboard, I learn that Russell is both an electrical 
engineering consultant and a yogi; I also learn that 
Brighenti once got a concussion while competing 
in a curling match. We pass the engineering plant 
where Russell used to work. There’s a nearby sign 
reading “Jude Lane”; she’d like to steal it someday. 


Above us, Zirpolo looks down on suburban 
developments that used to be farmers’ fields. Lifelong 
Connecticut residents, gazing upon their state for 
the first time, often tell Zirpolo they’re surprised to 
see so many trees. He tells them to imagine taking 
an eraser to all the subdivisions built in the last 
twenty years. “Then you’d say, ‘Wow, there sure are 
“ROBERT CAN LAND 
ON A POSTAGE 
STAMP,” BRIGHENTI 
TELLS ME.


a lot of trees here,’” he said. “I look at it as, ‘There 
sure is a lot of development here.’”


Not that those developments impede Zirpolo’s 
flying. “Robert can land on a postage stamp,” 
Brighenti tells me on our ride. He likes to set targets 
on his flights, aiming for landing spots other pilots 
would have a hard time hitting. The other balloonists 
who took off from the airstrip that morning have all 
put down near Thomaston, avoiding the fog. 


Zirpolo’s nowhere near finished. While we’re by 
Crabby Al’s, his voice crackles over the Motorola. 
What sounds like static is actually the intermittent 
roar of the burner—he’s gaining altitude. Zirpolo says 
his “declared goal” is to fly over Mount Southington 
and touch down in a ski area called Panthorn Park, 
about twenty miles east of the launch site. Russell 
pulls into the street while Brighenti retorts: “Crew’s 
declared goal is to get there sometime today.” 


Pilâtre de Rozier, the man who discovered the 
royal animals in the woods, was flying with a moron. 
It was November 21, 1783, and he and François 
Laurent, Marquis d’Arlandes, were floating over the 
French countryside, becoming the first men to fly 
in the process. All the pair had to do to keep their 
montgolfière afloat was shovel straw into an enclosed 
flame between them. But the Marquis wasn’t doing 
his job; he was too busy waving his handkerchief at 
the speechless crowds below. The balloon was losing 
altitude and drifting toward a thicket of windmills. 
“You’re not doing a thing, and we’re not climbing at 
all,” Pilâtre snapped, as Laurent later recounted in 
his journal. “Pardon,” he responded, pitchforking a 
bundle of straw into the fire. 


The launch, from the residence of the royal 
children, had started off auspiciously enough. 
Sure, the resplendent blue-and-gold montgolfière, 
emblazoned with Louis XVI’s initials, developed 
a few holes that needed sewing on the launchpad. 
And a few people, upon witnessing the ascension, 
vomited with anxiety. But thousands simply watched 
with awe, including Benjamin Franklin, who, 
when asked about the use of this fledgling machine 
aérostatique, reportedly answered, “What’s the use 
of a newborn baby?”


After twenty-five minutes, Pilâtre and Laurent 
crash-landed in the countryside. When Pilâtre 
emerged from the half-wreck, peasants fought 
over shreds of his coat. What contemporary 
author Horace Walpole termed “balloonomania” 
soon erupted across France, with balloon-shaped 
dresses dominating fashion and dozens of amateur 
scientists imitating the machine’s design. Scholars 
predicted that the unwieldy montgolfière would 
soon be followed by fleets of deadly airships piloted 
by France’s finest aéronautes. Man would soon 
dominate the air. 


French citizens looked at the invention with 
patriotic pride, seeing it as an equalizer that 
could bring fame to second-rate papermakers 
and perennial tinkerers, elevating them above 
terrestrial aristocrats. As Kim Mi Gyung described 
the atmosphere of the era in The Imagined Empire: 
Balloon Enlightenments in Revolutionary Europe, 
“Everybody was equal in the air.” 


The ambitions of liberation partly inspired by this 
balloon frenzy lasted for years, eventually coming 
to a head in the French Revolution. But the golden 
age of professional ballooning ended just nineteen 
months after it began, when the first aeronaut died a 
fiery death at six thousand feet. 


A national hero, Pilâtre de Rozier had set his 
sights on a new goal: crossing the English Channel. 
With a pension from the crown, he designed his own 
flying machine, the rozière, by placing a hydrogen 
balloon on top of a traditional montgolfière. (Because 
hydrogen is lighter than air, hydrogen balloons can 
ascend without added heat.) People told Pilâtre his 
invention wouldn’t work. Intent on proving them 
wrong, the irrepressible entertainer started out over 
the Channel in the hybrid machine.  


Within minutes, it burst into flames. “For a few 
moments,” Gillispie wrote in The Montgolfier 
Brothers, the pilot “hung motionless as the upper 
module became a globe of fire.” Spectators found 
Pilâtre’s body as the remains of his rozière washed 
ashore.


Balloonomania came to a decisive end; balloon 
bonnets were no longer in fashion. Etienne 
Montgolfier thought Pilâtre’s death might prove 
useful, pivoting public attention from spectacular 
demonstrations to a consideration of the technology’s 
practical applications. Unfortunately for him, 
balloons had none. The same craft that mesmerized 
Paris proved useless for transporting goods, bombs, 
or soldiers. “Balloons have always moved minds 
better than they’ve moved bodies,” Jason Pearl wrote 
in the Atlantic in 2018. France’s balloon dreams 
died alongside its first pilot. 


Zirpolo won’t make it to Panthorn Park—the winds 
on this side of Mt. Southington are too variable. 
He’ll have to find somewhere in the suburbs to land, 
and “might have to drop the drop line,” which, if 


Russell’s hurried driving is any indication, isn’t a good 
sign. Without a ground crew to help stabilize the 
hundred-foot balloon as it descends toward grasping 
tree branches and looming power lines, any number 
of things could go wrong—especially if the wind picks 
up. 


Russell rips down suburban streets, slowing at 
intersections to try to spot the surprisingly hard-to-find 
balloon. Then, we see it, an upside-down polychrome 
raindrop in the overcast sky. Russell starts hunting for 
a route to Zirpolo, avoiding cul-de-sacs and swerving 
past gawkers braking in the middle of the street. 


We come to an intersection that looks to be all 
dead ends. Russell slows, almost stops—then Zirpolo 
squawks over the radio: “Make that right.” He’s spotted 
the Chevy from above. Russell turns down Pacer Lane; 
a throng of pajama-clad parents and kids, awestruck by 
the balloon floating a few dozen feet over their heads, 
come into view. 


Brighenti is almost out of the van by the time Russell 
pulls it to the curb. “Hurry up!” Zirpolo shouts as the 
crew snatches onto the drop line, a sort of elongated 
seatbelt hanging from the basket. The balloon, lilting 
toward a roof, steadies to a hover. When Brighenti runs 
under the basket to strategize with the pilot, he yells 
for me to help Russell. I grab the drop line and tug. 


Zirpolo lays off the burner for good. His cooling 
craft alights on the asphalt. “I’m Robert Zirpolo,” 
he announces to the children inching toward the 
balloon, whose skeleton and princess pajamas aren’t 
nearly warm enough for the 10 a.m. air. “How are 
you all doing?” The giggling kids scatter as Zirpolo 
opens a vent at the crown of the balloon, beginning 
its deflation.


The pilot conscripts parents, passengers, and 
children to pack up the balloon, which transitions 
from a mythical object to the world’s largest heap 
of laundry. We all stand in line and wait to stuff 
our handful of heavy fabric into a large brown sack. 
Zirpolo and the kids sit on the sack, flattening it so 
that it can fit in the back of the van. Then in goes 
the sack, the basket, Zirpolo, Russell, Brighenti, the 
brothers, the septuagenarian, and me. The doors 
clatter shut. We drive back to the launch site, retracing 
the arc Zirpolo flew over state forests and golf courses. 
“We were only going fifteen miles per hour. I wanted 
fifty,” the aeronaut says. He reacclimates to life on 
the ground as the van gets stuck in a narrow Dunkin’ 
Donuts drive-thru. Russell has to turn onto an empty 
dirt lot to escape.


Back at the Bethlehem airfield, crew and pilot lay out 
a champagne-and-cheese breakfast, including bread 
Zirpolo baked at 5 a.m. that morning. He hands me a 
champagne glass with a miniature balloon etched on 
its surface. “We don’t care how old you are,” he laughs.
– Robert Scaramuccia is a 
senior in Trumbull College.



**Title: FIVE BEERS DEEP AT THE UNION STATION SBARRO**
**Author: Mariah Kreutter**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Right outside the Sbarro, near the bottom 
of the escalator in New Haven’s Union 
Station, tucked around a corner like a rarely-
played side quest in a video game, is a sign from 
another universe. It says, “Buy 4 Beers, Get the 5th 
for a Penny.”

Now, I can imagine a universe in which I would 
order one beer at the Union Station Sbarro. A 
universe in which it’s a quarter past five, say, and my 
train home is delayed by yet another hour, and all 
I’m looking to do is numb the existential anguish of 
being an Amtrak customer. Then I might walk past 
Sbarro — a pizza chain that has gone bankrupt twice 
and is best known for its omnipresence in mall food 
courts — and think, “Huh, I guess they have beer.” 
And then, maybe if there was a two-for-one special, I 
could, under extreme duress, be convinced to order 
a second. 
But five beers—again, at the Union Station Sbarro, 
a restaurant even more depressing than a regular 
Sbarro—is crazy. It is, in my view, the absolute saddest 
experience one could have in a train station, up to 
and including being struck by an actual train.

From the moment I learned of this special, I knew 
I could not die without trying it.

I finally got the chance one bone-chillingly cold 
MLK Day, when my friend Julia and I trekked all 
the way to the train station for that very purpose. I 
brought Julia for two reasons. One, because I needed 
a second person to carry on valiantly in case this stunt 
killed me. And two, because everyone should have a 
friend they immediately identify as the ideal partner 
for getting belligerent at a Sbarro, and Julia is that 
person for me. 

Icicles spiked from dead tree trunks like an early 
2000’s hairstyle. The temperature hit negative three. 
I was genuinely thrilled to reach the relative warmth 
and comfort of Sbarro. The walls were the bracing 
greenish-yellow of an overboiled egg yolk. At the 
counter, we immediately fucked up by ordering 
draft beers, which are apparently not subject to The 
Deal. The cashier—a no-nonsense guy, which must 
have been tough when confronted with two people 
as committed to nonsense as we were—eventually 
relented. In a transaction I still don’t fully understand, 
he charged me $16 for a solo cup full (and I mean 
full) of beer, with the understanding that the payment 
entitled me to three more refills and eventually a can 
or bottle for “free.” That was disappointing, since I 
really wanted to buy the fifth one with a ceremonial 
penny. 

We sat at a table in the back corner. When I set my 
Allagash down it trembled and then spilled over the 
lip of the solo cup, pooling weakly on the marbled 
vinyl of the tabletop.

To my surprise we were not the only ones drinking 
in Sbarro. A balding Jason Statham–type sat down 
across from us and tucked into a slice of sausage pizza 
and two miniature bottles of red wine, one of which 
he poured into a plastic cup with “Miller Lite” written 
on its side. I heard a woman ask, “If I get a beer do 
I have to drink it right now?” Two women wearing 
pom-pom hats—one said “BRUINS” on it—sipped 
from solo cups. 

At 5:42 everyone left except for us.

At 5:43 I mentioned I was “feeling it” and Julia 
called me a lightweight.

When we finished our second round we went back 
to the counter and discovered there had been a shift 
change. The new cashier, Oscar, was friendlier and 
younger, with arms coated in tattoos. We tried to 
explain what we had paid for, what we had received, 
and what we were still owed. We mostly failed, but 
somehow each ended up with the rest of our beers 
anyway: a Half-Full Pale Ale, a Blood Orange Pale 
Ale, a Shock Top Belgian White, a Modelo, a Two 
Hearted Ale, a Fat Tire Pale Ale, a Corona, and a 
Lagunitas 12th of Never Ale. Sbarro, I must say, has 
a shockingly extensive beer selection. I asked Oscar 
how often people do The Deal. “People do it a lot. 
Especially on Fridays,” he said. Then he sold Julia a 
slice of pizza that normally cost $6.50 for $4.

“It’s crazy when chains make deals with you,” 
Julia said as we sat down with our bounty. “Like, this 
Sbarro is so off-grid that they’re just like, ‘I’ll give you 
this for $2.50.’” 

By now I thought I had a sense of the place: patrons 
came and went according to the rhythms of the train 
schedule, and plenty of them were down to indulge in 
a drink. What I didn’t see was anyone sticking around 
long enough to drink five beers. Most only stayed for 
twenty minutes.

Time passed. We drank our beers. A woman next 
to us asked how Julia’s Fat Tire was. I went to the 
bathroom, which smelled like candy and the memory 
of vomit. I heard the loudspeaker announce a train to 
Boston South Station, and I thought about how easily 
I could get on it and go home. I ate a slice of pizza 
soaked through with grease. I watched The Bachelor 
on the wall-mounted TV. And I talked to Julia: about 
food and sex and insecurities and our families. It turns 
out getting drunk at Sbarro isn’t that functionally 
different from getting drunk anywhere else.

Eventually the place started to clear out. “I hope 
they don’t close on us,” Julia said. “I want them to 
kick us out for drunk and disorderly conduct.” 

At 9:48 a security guard sat down and asked what 
we were working on. “I’m writing a piece about 
getting drunk at Sbarro,” I said, and then we all tried 
to determine if The Deal was a good deal or not. He 
thought that it probably was. I finished my last beer at 
9:50. We had been at Sbarro for more than four and a 
half hours. Shifts changed, customers came and went, 
but we stayed on. We might have scammed them. I’m 
not really sure.


**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40**

Truth
History
Democracy
Hear from some of the most outstanding 
journalists in the world and gain insight into 
the media and its role in contemporary culture.
poynter.yale.edu

