Publication date: 10/87
Volume 20, Issue 2

**Title: Governing Lessons**
**Author: Susan Orenstein**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
To reach your chair in the meeting room, you walk past the long, wooden benches in the back, past the small camera crew and the clusters of aldermen, a few of whom you recognize. Holding thick packets, and talking informally, they come from Wooster Square, from Newhallville, from Westville, from the Hill. Somehow, things seem different than they did before the election. As soon as the officers of the board get settled, the meeting will come to order. They are seated up front, facing the representatives. Most of the aldermen are older than you, and many have been connected to New Haven politics longer than you've been alive. You learned this from months of studying the city, writing fliers and table tents, speaking at teas, and knocking on doors to explain yourself. You no longer have to convince anyone you can do the job. You just have to do it. 
Your name is Katie Kenney, Andrew Michaelson, or Lisa Valentovish, and you represent a ward of the city composed almost entirely of Yale students. Historically, your position on the board has been unique. Not just your youth but your constituency sets you apart. Your voters make few demands on you for jobs or municipal services. For this reason, you enjoy a certain freedom from the city's political "machine," especially if-like most past Ward 1 aldermen- you have little interest in running again. This freedom will enable you to act independently on issues without worrying about the needs of your ward. But you will risk remaining an outsider, as you are now, new to political office and fairly new to New Haven. Your fellow aldermen expect you to serve only one term and to approach your job as you did your campaign, fixed on big issues and ideas. 

Those ideas preoccupied Joel Ratner (BK '86) when he first joined the board in the summer of 1985. Originally appointed by Mayor Biagio DiLieto to replace a Yale graduate who had left for law school, Ratner retained his seat in an election three months later. In the course of his term, he has gained the kind of practical experience that the candidates hoping to replace him anticipate. Now 23 years old, Ratner has grappled with the Board's factions, his own naivete, and most important, the problems of New Haven. He takes his job personally and talks about it that way. In conversation, his only fault is that he strays from the topic. But his virtue is that he admits his faults. "I came expecting issues, written in bold letters. There's this incredible tendency to simplify. The more I've learned about New Haven, the more I realize that's a mistake and not really an effective way to frame those questions that you will ask and be asked," he says. 

Understanding the constraints of cramped agendas and two-week gaps between meetings, the other board members had a sharper sense of how to get things done. Ratner thought in headings-"downtown development," "public education," "the poor"-and was disappointed to find many of government's concerns scattered and trifling, ranging from the choice of a police station's furnace to the wording of a "pooper scooper" law. But he now appreciates the place of these issues in municipal government. Looking back, he rolls his eyes as he recalls the abstract approach he brought to the board. This year, the three candidates have supplied table tents and letters on most of the big issues facing New Haven. At their first public meeting together, the discussion of education became so theoretical as to draw the question, "Should Yale be forced to hire a certain number of workers from New Haven?" One of the candidates began to respond when a voice from the back called out, "I would warn you that that's illegal." Everyone turned around. The voice belonged to Ratner. 

The candidates themselves are aware of the abstract nature of the campaign, and Valentovish (TC '89) feels especially frustrated by it. As the Republican candidate, she says her table tents seek to engage people with facts instead of statements like "here's a social problem, vote for me, because I will change it." She complains that the campaign so far has centered on which candidate is the most socially conscious. Reading one of Kenney's fliers, she says critically, "She's been active. Yeah, that's nice. But getting people to register to vote doesn't equal working on the downtown council observing the dynamics between private and public sectors." 

That may not be true. According to Kenney (BK '88), "registering people to vote involved dealing with a city bureaucracy whose mission "was to do as little work as possible . . . . I decided to decisively cut through the red tape and do it right and be cheerful the whole time." She also points out that any campaign must emphasize issues in order to educate people. Like Valentovish, she claims that she can handle the city's practical side, too. 

But even separating the practical from the abstract indicates how differently someone from Yale views New Haven politics. Ward 1 consists of eight residential colleges, Old Campus, and the Law School, as well as a few residential streets-so few, in fact, that, after graduating, Ratner worried about meeting the requirement to live in the ward. With virtually no pressure from constituents, Yale's representative has time to sit back and think about the city. The next election is not at stake. A childhood neighborhood is