Publication date: September 2024
Volume: 57
Issue number: 1

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors-in-Chief: Maggie Grether, Chloe Nguyen
- Executive Editor: Aanika Eragam
- Managing Editor: Samantha Liu
- Business Manager: Alex Moore
- Verse Editors: Ingrid Rodríguez Vila, Etai Smotrich-Barr
- Senior Editors: Jabez Choi, Paola Santos, Viola Clune, Kylie Volavongsa, Abbey Kim, Anouk Yeh
- Associate Editors: Chloe Budakian, Tina Li, Ben Card, Sophia Liu, Koby Chen, Hannah Mark, Ashley Choi, Calista Oetama, Matias Guevara Ruales, Josie Reich, Mia Rose Kohn, Jack Rodriquez-Vars, Sophie Lamb
- Copy Editors: Sara Cao, Sophie Molden, Lilly Chai, Sasha Schoettler, Diego del Aguila, Vivian Wang, Sophia Groff
- Podcast Editor: Suraj Singareddy
- Creative Director: Alicia Gan
- Design Editors: Ellie Park, Ashley Zheng, Sarah Feng, Vivian Wang, Jessica Sánchez
- Photography: Colin Kim, Gavin Guerrette
- Web Design: Makda Assefa, Kris Aziabor, Caleb Nieh
- Members & Directors: Emily Bazelon, Haley Cohen Gilliland, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, Jonathan Dach, Susan Dominus, Kathrin Lassila, Elizabeth Sledge, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- Advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Lincoln Caplan, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rawbin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Anson M. Beard, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, Leslie Dach, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Gabriel Snyder


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Holy Water - Brooke Whitling
- Becoming a Crew Man - Tigerlily Hopson
- Baggage - Anaiis Rios-Kasoga
- Father’s Day - Netanel Schwartz
- Eclipse - Netanel Schwartz
- A Theater of Hunger - Chloe Budakian
- Independent Declarations - Tina Li
- Short of a Miracle - Ethan Wolin
- Side Effects - Tobias Liu
- In the Crosshairs - Abigail Sylvor Greenberg
- Growing Memory - Calista Oetama


**Title: A Theater of Hunger**
**Author: Chloe Budakian**
**Page number(s): 1, 8**

For decades, Margaret Holloway performed 
Shakespeare on the corner of York Street in 
exchange for money. Behind the mythos of “The 
Shakespeare Lady” was a budding actress failed by 
a series of places and people—including at 
the Yale School of Drama.



**Title: Letter from the editors**
**Author: Managing Board**
**Page number(s): 2**

Dear readers, 
As the future abounds for the new faces on campus this August, the 
Managing Board convened in a slightly more reflective mood. Juniors now, 
we have crossed the halfway mark in our journeys at Yale, and it’s prompted 
us to take a look back.
So too do our writers. Memory is the central theme of this issue of The New 
Journal. How do we mine meaning from the lives of those who have passed––
and when do these stories spin out of control? 
Chloe Budakian tells the story of Margaret Holloway and explores how 
her legacy as York Street’s “Shakespeare Lady” has been flattened and 
narrativized after her death. In his piece on Father Michael McGivney, 
Ethan Wolin chronicles the transatlantic endeavor to make a saint of a 
19th-century American man—a canonization effort spanning the edges of 
the American East, Italy, and the internet.
Throughout the city, people contend with history and tradition. Collegiate 
shooting athletes exercise their privilege to compete amidst a national debate 
over bearing arms; mothers of gun violence victims root trees and flowers 
to memorialize those they have lost. Meanwhile, New Haven’s burgeoning 
biotechnology scene prompts us to ask: can the city learn from its past?
In this first issue of Volume 57 of The New Journal, join us in looking back. 
Managing Board
Maggie, Chloe, Aanika, Sam


**Title: Independent Declarations**
**Author: Tina Li**
**Page number(s): 4**

point of departure


**Title: Short of a Miracle**
**Author: Ethan Wolin**
**Page number(s): 22**

feature

The quest for sainthood for a 19th-century 
Connecticut priest ensnares a cast of characters across 
continents–and could transform New Haven into a 
center for American Catholicism.


**Title: Side Effects**
**Author: Tobias Liu**
**Page number(s): 18**

snapshots

Burgeoning biotech development has residents wondering: can the 
city avoid the mistakes of past revitalization efforts?


**Title: In the Crosshairs**
**Author: Abigail Sylvor Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 6**


Yale’s Club Skeet & Trap team garners attention from admitted 
students, alumni—and gun lobbyists.


**Title: Growing Memory**
**Author: Calista Oetama**
**Page number(s): 30**


The first of its kind, a garden in New Haven remembers local victims 
of gun violence.



**Title: Points of Departure: Independent Declarations**
**Author: Tina Li**
**Page number(s): 4-6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In 2012, the New Haven Independent faced what its founder, Paul Bass, would remember as “a moment of truth.”  
The online paper’s comments section had been deteriorating into a cesspool of unwieldy toxicity and petty personal jabs. One day, a particularly nasty attack on a public official slipped past Bass, then-editor-in-chief. The damage was irrevocable. With a stricken conscience, he removed the commenting option. 

For a week, the Independent’s website was eerily silent. No longer were people engaging in zealous debate under articles or providing prompt feedback to writers. They instead took to Bass’ email inbox, which was flooded with letters from devastated commenters, media critics, and editors of other local papers. 

In an Independent staff meeting the following week, Bass was outvoted 11 to 1 in reinstating the comments section. 
Though hesitant, Bass soon realized that it was simply a matter of strictly enforcing community guidelines and owning up to the inevitable mistakes. 

“In that process, we learned how important a moderated comments section is,” Bass said. “Readers really deserve more of a say in the direction of coverage. We just have to be able to moderate it well.”

If you live in New Haven, you’ve likely heard of the Independent—the site receives approximately 70,000 unique visitors each month, half of the city’s population of 140,000. Unlike its peer news sites, which are often owned by media conglomerates and have succumbed to homogeneously modern designs and paywalls, the Independent’s website resembles an early 2010s WordPress blog. Community notices and hyperlinks, all typed in humble Arial font, densely populate its side columns. 

Though the Independent ultimately restored its commenting option, the New Haven Register and Hartford Courant had long struggled with hostile comments and eventually shut down their comments sections for good. The decisions were understandable. Comments sections are liabilities for small papers, Bass told me, as each comment that borders on libel can provoke a defamation lawsuit.

With rigorous moderation, the Independent’s comments section is thriving. At the bottom of every article, readers can express their disapproval and disillusionment with New Haven—but also join together in a fierce commitment to the city. “Some people call it their favorite public forum in New Haven,” Assistant Editor Dereen Shirnekhi told me (Shirnekhi was editor-in-chief of The New Journal during the 2022-2023 academic year). 

Articles about contentious issues garner immense engagement. A piece covering protests over the war in Gaza received 134 comments, and recent articles about the Rosette Street tiny homes’ residents fighting to retain their permits consistently received about sixty each. 
Though lighter-hearted pieces receive less attention—on average about a dozen or so comments—the same commenters who duke it out under politically controversial articles might share their common appreciation for a successful youth reading event on the New Haven Green. 

The commenters are lively, opinionated, and sometimes snarky. Some write long paragraphs with links to Connecticut law or news clippings. Others share personal experiences. 
According to Shirnekhi, frequent commenters become “characters.” 

If that’s the case, then user @Kevin McCarthy has a starring role.

Weaving around a U-Haul truck, McCarthy waved at me from his scuffed-up violet bike. He just came back from a shift of packing food at Integrated Refugee & Immigrant Services, and he’s wearing a checkered Timberland button-up tucked into khakis, which are then tucked into work boots. Ever since he retired, McCarthy cruises around New Haven, dividing his time among multiple nonprofit organizations.

McCarthy likes biking, cats, and the New Haven Independent comments section. As he talks, his fluffy eyebrows leap above his wire-frame glasses.

He’s known in the comments section for being judicious and impartial. 
During his tenure as a policy analyst in the Connecticut legislature, McCarthy became well-acquainted with issues from land use and housing to transportation and energy. It was essential, he told me, that his write-ups were bipartisan. With his experience, he brings to the comments section a pragmatic understanding of city issues as well as an extensive knowledge of legalese—under an article about tenant union organizer evictions, McCarthy still cites federal and local regulations like a researcher: “(see 42 CFR § 92.253).”

His dedication to New Haven and his reliable, informative presence in the comments section landed him his own profile in the Independent. Under the article, his fellow commenters praised him as a “local treasure” and “hometown hero.” 

Ben Trachten, a land use attorney, met McCarthy at a city planning commission meeting. Since then, they’ve regularly met for coffee to debate the technicalities of New Haven’s housing issues. 

“We always come up with good dialogue and a good set of ideas to move New Haven in the direction that we want to see it go: more residential density, more residential choice,” Trachten told me. 

Besides being a forum for open dialogue, the comments section has also become an authority check on the Independent’s writers. Commenters don’t hesitate to provide technical corrections or criticize articles they find biased. The writers of the Independent don’t editorialize; instead, they focus on running around New Haven to uncover information, with which readers can then form their own conclusions. The comments section thus becomes a space where commenters run their own quasi-opinion columns. 

“When you start thinking your opinion matters more than the news or other people’s opinions, it makes you less useful,” Bass said, describing the accountability they receive from commenters as “liberating.”

The comments section has also inspired change at the grassroots level. 
Bass fondly told me about a late commenter Rebecca Turio, or @cedar hill resident, whose passionate advocacy in her comments was informed by her having lived in a lower-income neighborhood. Through engaging with Independent articles and other readers, she grew more invested in activism and would attend city meetings proudly proclaiming her identity as a commenter—“I’m @cedar hill resident!”

In a city dominated by progressives, software engineer Joshua Van Hoesen stands out in the comments. 
In 2023, when he was campaigning for alder in Ward 26 as a Republican, he used the Independent’s comments section to expound on his values—“old school, fiscally responsible, [and] moderate,” he told me. Van Hoesen tells me that his views were frequently challenged and even changed as he interacted with other commenters. 

But Dennis Serfilippi, who ran for Ward 25 alder as a Democrat in 2019 and 2023, isn’t convinced that the comments section inspires significant policy changes. According to Serfilippi, commenters comprise just a small portion of the populace and occupy a powerless space between the average resident and the New Haven government: more informed than the former, but not taken seriously by the latter. “Until more people get involved and understand what’s happening, then things won’t change,” Serfilippi told me.

When I asked these commenters whom they interacted with most, each immediately rattled off several names. 
Everyone seemed to have contentious dialogues with @CityYankee2, a staunch Republican and infamous online contrarian. McCarthy told me he occasionally disagrees with @THREEFIFTHS, a Black man from New York City, but the two are Facebook friends. He also knows @Patricia Kane, who ran for alder as a member of the Green Party in 2021.

Patricia Kane confessed that her early interchanges with McCarthy in the comments section were antagonistic. One day, wanting to smooth things over, he suggested they meet up over coffee. Though they’ll still agree to disagree, they’ve been friends since. 

“I ended up mending his Irish knit sweater,” Kane said. 

Like many other commenters, Kane is deeply committed to supporting independent journalism and demanding transparency from local and national governments. She believes that the New England tradition of spirited town hall meetings endures in the Independent’s comments section.

Kane moved to Mexico two months ago. She now lives two hours behind New Haven and thousands of miles away, but she still fondly keeps up with the local happenings and all her fellow commenters—friends and adversaries alike. Though she doesn’t comment anymore, Kane hasn’t been able to detach from the community here. 
Every morning in Mexico, without fail, Kane logs on and checks the Independent’s comments section. ∎


Tina Li is a sophomore in Pierson College and an Associate Editor of The New Journal.



**Title: Father’s Day**
**Author: Netanel Schwartz**
**Page number(s): 6**

The difference between 
him and his mother 
is God believes in his mother. 
He says he is not his mother 
but he conceives of the dead 
the way his mother does at sixty; 
his dreams glance 
to the rear and flanks 
     (where danger waits) 
and his ear hears: it hurts. 
     “Your father likes this dish. 
     This Sunday is Father’s Day. 
     Why you’re not coming home? 
     Why my four boys 
     are the smartest boys in the world 
     and can’t help me?” 
him and his brothers 
is his brothers believe in his mother.



**Title: Holy Water**
**Author: Brooke Whitling**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
We grew up sitting in the back pew, 
for the most part anyway. Sometimes 
it felt like we shouldn’t, like we were sitting 
the furthest from the message too. Like, 
because we could slip out without anyone 
seeing—the preacher’s family or the old 
people—we weren’t really there. 

I remember the building and the part 
of the service where the pastor brought 
all the kids up to the front for the children’s thing. And the puppet shows. And 
we sang up there, performed for the congregation. And he would make it fun…squeezing toothpaste to show us we can’t 
take our words back. And downstairs in the 
basement there was a hangout place, and 
upstairs the frog room. It was an acronym…
FULLY RELY ON GOD, or something. Only 
the teenagers could go to the basement, 
where there was a foosball table and the 
walls were all covered with murals. I never 
made it down for the big kid stuff. We 
stopped going so much after when I was in 
the frog room and the guy giving the lesson 
told us that everyone divorced was going 
to hell, and so I asked if God understands 
sometimes, you know, if it’s better for the 
kids or the parents or everyone because 
maybe the situation wasn’t healthy and he 
knew my mom got divorced when I was little, but he said no anyway.
She was going to hell too. 
And I didn’t tell my mom because I 
didn’t want her to know. Not that I cried in 
the frog room—I didn’t want her to know 
about hell. So I walked over to the water 
fountain after, and it tasted like iron. ∎

Brooke Whitling is a sophomore in 
Timothy Dwight College.


**Title: Short of a Miracle**
**Author: Ethan Wolin**
**Page number(s): 8**

The quest for sainthood for a 19th-century Connecticut priest ensnares a cast of 
characters across continents–and could transform New Haven into a center for 
American Catholicism.



**Title: I. THE MIRACLE**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On May 15, 2015, the day Michael Schachle was born, the campaign for a Saint McGivney received a new breath of life.
Mikey Schachle (pronounced “shackle”) cleared a path through his relatives to jump on the trampoline with his brother and little niece.  He repeatedly uttered “buh-ba-beach,” which his brother decoded as “Backyard Beach,” a song from “Phineas and Ferb.”  When rain began to pelt down, Mikey, gripping a mini croissant in his right hand, proclaimed, “A rainy day.” He seemed to be everywhere around the house that Saturday afternoon last May, three days after he turned 9, smiling and eliciting smiles wherever he went. Several dozen family members and friends were there to celebrate his sister’s high school graduation and his birthday to boot.


The Schachles live in a big white house with a red roof and a brick chimney. It sits atop a hill on six acres just outside of Dickson, Tennessee (population about 16,000), some 40 miles west of downtown Nashville. When Michelle, 53, called, the guests converged on the living room to say grace. “I usually say God bless the cook, but that would be vain,” joked Dan, 49, who had grilled piles of hamburgers and hot dogs. Dan runs an insurance agency for the Knights of Columbus that spans all of Tennessee and Kentucky, a territory he covers in his four-seat Piper airplane. He entered the business after reading the 2006 McGivney biography “Parish Priest,” a 200-page chronicle of humble beginnings.


Twenty weeks into her pregnancy, in February 2015, Michelle Schachle and her husband Daniel were told their baby would not survive. An ultrasound had revealed severe fluid buildup that risked harming Michelle, too. Doctors at the Vanderbilt University Medical Center recommended terminating the pregnancy. For the devoutly Catholic couple, abortion was off the table. The suggestion angered Dan. “It’s my job to protect my children, not to kill them,” he recalled thinking. The Schachles made worst-case plans to bury the baby in their yard, in rural Tennessee. And they began to pray.


They prayed for Father Michael McGivney, a 19th-century Connecticut priest, to press God to intervene on the fetus’s behalf. In 1882, McGivney founded the Knights of Columbus, a Catholic men’s organization that sells life insurance. Inspired by McGivney, Dan had found his calling as an insurance agent for the Knights, and his sales won him and Michelle spots on a 2015 reward trip to Europe. It came at an opportune time. The couple prayed for McGivney’s aid at the Vatican, and again at the Sanctuary of Fátima, a popular pilgrimage site in Portugal, where they heard a gospel reading in which Jesus tells a nobleman whose son is sick: “You may go; your son will live.”


Right after they returned from Europe, Michelle had another ultrasound. The swelling was gone. In only the 31st week of pregnancy, she had a C-section, giving birth to a son with Down syndrome. Fear and hope melted into gratefulness. Dan and Michelle named their thirteenth child Michael McGivney Schachle. Ever the company man, Dan called a top Knights executive he had met in Portugal to report the remarkable turnaround. According to Dan, the executive passed the news to a colleague at the New Haven headquarters with a simple message: “I think we might have your McGivney miracle in Tennessee.”


The Knights had already pushed their founder well on the path to sainthood, but the world’s biggest Roman Catholic fraternal group needed two divine miracles to close the deal. The story of the new Michael McGivney—since retold in numerous news articles, Catholic podcasts and Knights videos—would, five years and five months later, bring the former Michael McGivney one step away from sainthood. It would reshape the Knights’ publicity and the face of New Haven Catholic life. It would especially begin to transform St. Mary’s Church, where McGivney and a crew of laymen established the Knights, and where today his body rests entombed and his portrait hangs outside.


McGivney may, before long, become the first American-born man to be recognized by the Vatican as a canonized saint. To join the canon of saints, one must meet centuries-old standards of holiness that confirm one’s eternal place in heaven. Yet the process—driven by efforts and outcomes beyond the dead candidate’s control—draws in a vortex of characters, events and ideas that make up their own canon, a sort of afterlife on Earth. At the end of a saga playing out across the places and cyberspaces of 21st century America, New Haven may emerge as a focal point of Catholicism in the country, and McGivney as a preeminent mold for American Catholic manhood.


McGivney’s sarcophagus, at St. Mary’s.


**Title: II. MUTUAL AID**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

Agents like Dan Schachle, contracted by the organization’s corporate center, sell insurance products only to other Knights’ families, earning premiums that bankroll charity—such as aid for war-torn Ukraine or natural disaster victims—and political causes related to Catholic teachings. The group spearheaded the 1954 addition of the words “under God” to the Pledge of Allegiance. It now leaves its largest political footprint in the fight against abortion, by supporting the annual March for Life and providing ultrasound machines to anti-abortion pregnancy centers.


The evening I arrived in Dickson to get to the bottom of McGivney’s rising prominence, a dozen Catholic men met in their homey parish office to discuss fatherhood over Krispy Kreme donuts. They used a Knights curriculum called “Cor” (Latin for heart) and a Knights video series called “Into the Breach.” “It’s like what the apostle said: ‘Man be the head of your household,’” one man at the table said, roughly quoting Paul’s Epistle to the Ephesians. Another referred approvingly to the football kicker Harrison Butker’s viral remarks on masculinity and the domestic role of women. Two of the attendees were Mikey’s older brothers.


McGivney was born in Waterbury, Connecticut, in 1852, during an era of rampant anti-Catholic prejudice. His parents both immigrated from Ireland, and his father died when McGivney was 20. Within a decade, as assistant pastor at St. Mary’s, McGivney saw other immigrant families suffer the loss of a breadwinner. He envisioned a new men’s club, resembling Protestant-dominated secret societies, that would, as McGivney once wrote, “render pecuniary assistance to the families of deceased members.” “Knights” evoked manly responsibility, and the club’s namesake, Christopher Columbus, was regarded as a Catholic American hero.


The Knights of Columbus would grow to have over 2.1 million members around the world in nearly 17,000 church-by-church councils, whose activities range from community service to military-style pageantry. Knights can reach four degrees of membership that correspond to four guiding principles: charity, unity, fraternity, and patriotism. The local mutual aid society turned into a Fortune 1000 insurance business, formally a nonprofit 501(c)(8) fraternal beneficiary society, with some one hundred twenty-three billion dollars’ worth of life insurance policies in effect.


The Schachle family gathers to celebrate Mikey’s birthday.


**Title: III. THE MAELSTROM**
**Page number(s): 12**

Suffice to say, the Schachles were well steeped in—and sustained by—McGivney’s legacy when they turned to him in their 2015 crisis. “It felt completely natural, because I had been asking Father McGivney for his help already,” Dan told me. Mikey is now homeschooled at what the family dubbed the “Father McGivney Academy.” Michelle said he has some trouble reading when his eyes grow tired. (After the life-threatening condition, fetal hydrops, went away, Mikey still needed surgeries to handle complications from Down syndrome.) On the mantelpiece in the Schachles’ living room sit a framed McGivney prayer card and an encased speck of one of McGivney’s ribs.


During the birthday festivities, Mikey sat on the ground in front of the coffee table, one arm on each side of a cake frosted bright green, yellow, and blue. The attendees filled the dark room, as candles illuminated Mikey’s face and his “Bluey” shirt—one of many gifts he received that Saturday afternoon. (I gave Mikey a stuffed panda and ate two of Dan’s burgers.) Everyone sang “Happy birthday,” and then: “May the good Lord bless you, may the good Lord bless you. May the good Lord bless Mikey, happy birthday to you.”


A subset of the Schachle clan arrived the next morning just in time for the 11 a.m. Pentecost Mass at St. Christopher Church, the only Catholic church in the 490 square miles of Bible-Belt Dickson County. Mikey spent much of the service, which was dedicated to him for his birthday, facing backward in his pew. The elderly deacon, delivering his homily, recounted the story of Pentecost before launching into a series of questions. “Do you want to know the truth? Do you want to know what Jesus taught?”


And: “Do you want to be sanctified, to become a saint?”


colloquially, a saint is a very good person—kind, selfless, moral. To Catholics, a saint is someone close to God, a dead person to whom the living can turn for an exemplar of holiness and an ally in heaven. One may aspire to follow them, but formal canonization is the end of a bureaucratic odyssey that no person can bring about for him or herself. Anyway, it would be inadvisable to try. “There’s a paradoxical twist there,” said Carlos Eire, a Yale professor of history and religious studies. “You’re supposed to be humble. You’re not supposed to attract attention to yourself.”


For centuries, church law has required two basic elements for canonization: proof that the candidate demonstrated “heroic virtue” in life, making them qualified for veneration, and proof that they have since interceded to work miracles, usually two medical cures. An authentic healing miracle must pass two tests: Is it inexplicable by medical science? And can it be attributed precisely to the intercessor in question? If yes to both, then the Vatican’s Dicastery (formerly Congregation) for the Causes of Saints deems the event a signal of God’s approval for the canonization effort.


The number of canonized saints is all but impossible to tabulate, but the number tied to the United States—as missionaries here, or later as citizens—can be counted on two hands. The Archdiocese of Hartford officially opened the cause for McGivney’s canonization in 1997, fifteen years after the Knights’ centennial commemorations spotlighted their founder’s impact. A thousand-plus-page dossier, commissioned by the Knights to show McGivney’s heroic virtue, prompted Pope Benedict XVI in 2008 to declare McGivney “venerable.”


The Knights printed and distributed prayer cards. They had sought out the presidential historian Douglas Brinkley to undertake a McGivney biography—the book, co-written with the author Julie Fenster, that later inspired Dan Schachle. On the website of the Father Michael J. McGivney Guild for devotees, anyone can add to an ever-growing list of favors credited to him, from vanished tumors to newfound fertility. Each step of the process requires considerable legwork and expertise—including from specialized advocates in Rome—and therefore considerable funding. The Knights have not published a number, but Father Gabriel O’Donnell, who first helmed McGivney’s cause, said the direct costs have surely reached seven figures.


After word of Mikey’s birth ascended the chain of command, the task of investigating the case fell to a tribunal assembled by the Diocese of Nashville, with the medical expert Dr. Fred Callahan. In his slow Southern inflection, Callahan calls himself a “country neurologist,” although his solo practice occupies a small strip mall suite in Nashville proper. He was recruited by the bishop of Nashville, a patient and friend, to collect and summarize the medical data for officials and doctors in Rome. “I turned him down a couple times, but he kept on calling,” Callahan recalled, sitting across from me in his waiting room. “Why do you need a country neurologist for that? It’s neonatal medicine.”


Callahan, now 75, remembers only fragments of the investigation. One step that stuck: “They had guys come from Rome to swear us to secrecy.” He remembers as well the initial feedback on his draft report: “They told me that my conclusion suggested too much that I had an opinion. I said, ‘Well, I’m an American, I’m entitled to have an opinion.’” Upon my asking, he declined to tell me his opinion.


Church officials also had to check that the Schachles had prayed to McGivney and only McGivney. A family friend of theirs who was a seminarian in Rome had prayed with the Schachles during their 2015 trip; he got a call from an investigator inquiring about the targets of their prayers. Jesus and Mary, it turned out, were permissible exceptions.


On May 27, 2020, Pope Francis certified the miracle, allowing for McGivney to be beatified, or declared “blessed.” News articles and videos about Mikey’s previously private story proliferated online, in Catholic and secular outlets alike. In August, the Knights released a video that opens with Mikey, in overalls, on a chair at home. In a voiceover, Dan says, “God writes the best stories, and we didn’t realize what he was doing in our lives.”


God’s story quickly became the Knights’ story. The communications staff in Connecticut kicked into full gear to spread it, installing McGivney and the canonization campaign as central features of the organization’s public image. Victoria Verderame, then a Knights corporate




**Title: The Miracle of Mikey Schachle**
**Author: Ethan Wolin**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
September 2024
statue of McGivney to ascend the church steps, and, as one 
Catholic on campus put it, “you’re entering into a different 
world.” The floor is wood-tiled, the ceiling mostly sky-blue. 
Maroon columns rise like clumped-up red licorice.


The building was consecrated in 1874. When 25-year-old 
Michael McGivney arrived three years later, the church was 
gravely in debt. Eight years after that, the bishop handed the 
church to Dominican friars, members of a centuries-old reli­
gious order known for an intellectual style that meshed nat­
urally with the Yale milieu. The Dominicans averted financial 
ruin at St. Mary’s and, beginning in 1907, used a grand house 
erected next door as their priory, a communal home.


More recently, the Knights of Columbus has picked 
up the tab for upgrades at the church. For its 1982 centen­
nial, the organization installed a granite sarcophagus for 
McGivney’s corpse, which was exhumed from a Waterbury 
graveyard. “The Dominicans came in and saved this church,” 
Martin O’Connor, a New Haven deacon and St. Mary’s stal­
wart, said; the Knights, for their part, “have provided extrava­
gantly for the church.”  The two groups made for an unlikely 
symbiosis—between the old and the newer, the cerebral and 
the corporate. All the while, the Dominicans retained the St. 
Mary’s pulpit.


That is, until an ecclesiastical earthquake hit in October 
2021: the archbishop of Hartford announced that New 
Haven’s eight Catholic churches—including a Hispanic one, 
a Polish-speaking one, and a historically Black one—would 
merge to form one parish with shared clergy. The official 
rationale was unremarkable, especially in pandemic-era New 
England: fewer priests spread thin across abundant churches 
communications manager, told me the shift meant “making 
a concerted effort to vocalize that Father McGivney is—he is 
the mission of the Knights of Columbus.”


The celebrations climaxed in October 2020 at the Mass 
marking McGivney’s beatification. The Schachles stopped in 
Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, on their drive up to Connecticut, 
where they were quarantined for four days in the Omni New 
Haven Hotel. The main service occurred on Halloween at 
Hartford’s Cathedral of Saint Joseph, with limited atten­
dance. Dan and a veiled Michelle, carrying Mikey, were 
interviewed live from the church plaza by a studio anchor on 
the Eternal Word Television Network.


The week before I left for Tennessee, Dan told me his 
family would not be available to see me. Only once a Knights 
flack arranged our encounter did I first meet six Schachles 
at a Cracker Barrel just off the highway. The restaurant was 
packed and loud at 8 a.m. as we sat down at a round table in 
the corner. Michelle brought an album of images and time­
lines reconstructing Mikey’s medical drama. Besides repeated 
interviews, the Schachles are sometimes treated as small-
time celebrities at a friend’s wedding or an out-of-town Mass. 
“It’s a nuisance, honestly, but it’s a cross that we’re willing to 
bear to help Christ give other people hope,” Dan said.


His discomfort with all the attention, and with my visit, 
ran deeper than the inconvenience. “My biggest struggle has 
been making sure that I am not leveraging the sacred, God’s 
actions, for my financial personal gain,” Dan said. “I don’t 
want the publicity. I want to go about doing my vocation of 
taking care of widows and orphans, and not say, ‘Buy insur­
ance from me because God did this, and I’m great, and all 
that.’ I don’t want to go to hell because of this.”


In 
August 
2022, 
the 
Knights’ 
140th 
Supreme 
Convention—the first in-person one since the pandemic 
began, complete with exultation at the Supreme Court’s 
recent overruling of Roe v. Wade—took place in Nashville. 
“HOME OF MIKEY’S MIRACLE,” read a Warholesque poster. 
Supreme Knight Patrick Kelly saluted the Schachles in his 
main speech, as footage of Mikey at home played on big 
screens for the convention hall. Dan held up 7-year-old 
Mikey. “Thank you for saying ‘yes’ to life,” Kelly proclaimed.


At the Cracker Barrel, Dan explained his caution with 
a parable about a prideful donkey. “They hang the sacred 
images across the donkey’s back for the parade through town,” 
he said. “As the donkey comes by, everyone’s kneeling down 
and praising the images and stuff. And the donkey becomes 
too proud and won’t go into stable. He’s too good of a donkey, 
because everyone worships him, right? So, first of all, I’m just 
a jackass. Whatever’s happened to me is God, not me.”


As the whirlpool of of McGivney’s advance toward saint­
hood revolved around the Schachles, it would also engulf a 
New Haven landmark: the church where McGivney spent 
his seven years in the city. St. Mary’s Church stands on leafy 
Hillhouse Avenue, surrounded by Yale buildings. Pass by the 
Screened poster for the Knights of Columbus Convention.


IV.  THE MOTHER CHURCH



the last Dominican pastor of St. Mary’s, played a key part in 
honoring McGivney’s beatification the year before. “I guess you 
could say that there is some irony in the timing,” he allowed.


The St. Mary’s priory, as it’s still imprecisely known in the 
Dominicans’ absence, now houses the parish offices and several 
priests. The Dominicans’ exit was “not a good chapter in the 
history of this parish,” Deacon O’Connor, a former chief of 
the New Haven Fire Department, said as we sat in the build­
ing’s wood-paneled dining room. “The Dominicans changed 
my life,” he said. “Why would they leave, or be asked to leave, 
when you have a shortage of priests? So that still baffles me. 
They built this house.”


Clergymen, anticipating that a Saint McGivney will 
attract untold pilgrims, said the house may someday be con­
verted into a visitor center with bathrooms and a gift shop.



As he looks out over hillhouse avenue, McGivney’s 
expression is hard to read. His lips seem to form a frown, yet 
his boyish cheeks crease around his nose and mouth as if on 
the cusp of a smile. His shimmery eyes, gazing to the right, 
suggest something like a distant pride. The official portrait—
the chief visual embodiment of McGivney’s afterlife—hangs 
from the church’s gothic stone facade.


If St. Mary’s Church elevates the man’s face, the global 
headquarters of the Knights of Columbus—on the other, 
grayer side of downtown New Haven—further elevates his 
name. It’s the second-tallest building in town, a modern mon­
ument of concrete, brick, and glass with imposing cylindrical 
towers at its four corners. Emblazoned across three floors’ win­
dows are the words “BLESSED MICHAEL McGIVNEY.”


A brutalist building down the block from the Knights’ 
tower, once home to a mix of local agencies and organiza­
tions, now houses the Blessed Michael McGivney Pilgrimage 
Center. In July 2023, the city’s consolidated parish was chris­
tened the Blessed Michael McGivney Parish. Every Sunday 
Mass in New Haven includes a prayer for McGivney’s can­
onization. In short, McGivney has never been more visible 
in his adopted hometown. “From a Catholic perspective,” 
that 
had 
seen 
fuller 
days. 
But 
the move had an 
abrupt 
byproduct. 
St. Mary’s, “due to 
its significance, its 
location,” would be 
“the mother church” 
in the hands of dioc­
esan priests, said 
Father Ryan Lerner, 
who oversees the 
consolidated parish. 
After 135 years there, 
the Dominicans, it 
became clear, would 
have to go.


A Facebook post 
by the friars announc­
ing their departure 
accumulated 
com­
ments from devas­
tated 
churchgoers: 
“Heartbreaking news. 
Blessed Michael McGivney pray for us.” “Executive decisions 
with hazy rationales are not only upsetting, they are also insult­
ing.” One reaction came from farther afield. “So sorry to hear! 
To our St Mary’s family. Blessed McGivney, pray for St. Mary’s,” 
wrote Dan Schachle. The episode remains a sore subject at St. 
Mary’s, where regulars speak in adoring terms about how the 
Dominicans shaped their spirituality.


Adding to the unsavory flavor of what one parishioner 
likened to a “dirty real estate play” by the archdiocese, many 
suspect that McGivney’s beatification less than a year ear­
lier—and his tomb’s heightened power to attract pilgrims—
had piqued the archbishop’s interest in taking more direct 
control of the church. The signs of an ulterior motive stuck 
out to Eire. “This is so ancient. The bishops like to have the 
relics. They like to have a church that attracts pilgrims,” he 
said, adding that, among others who know church history, 
“We all laughed about it when it happened, and cried at the 
same time, because it’s just so typical.”


The archbishop, Leonard Blair, who stepped down in 
May, acknowledged that McGivney’s sarcophagus figured in 
his decision to remove the Dominicans from St. Mary’s. The 
archdiocese offered the Dominicans alternative posts, which 
the friars said they did not have enough time to consider 
before being kicked out. “We have to have a pastoral plan for 
the city that also includes the reality of, I hope, a future saint 
being buried right in the middle of it,” Blair told me over the 
phone. “And so this was not aimed at the Dominicans or any­
thing. It’s just part of a larger thing.”


It will be a future the Dominicans helped usher in. They 
tended to McGivney’s tomb and have long held top religious 
positions at the Knights. One Dominican, O’Donnell, led the 
canonization effort’s initial phase while living in the St. Mary’s 
priory and still leads the McGivney Guild. “It’s easy to take a 
cynical view of it, but I would resist that,” O’Donnell, now 81, 
said of his fellow friars’ expulsion. Father John Paul Walker, 
The Knight’s  Tower, 1 Columbus Plaza
St. Mary’s Church,
5 Hillhouse Avenue
V.  McGIVNEY CITY


O’Donnell wrote in a McGivney Guild newsletter last year, 
“New Haven, Conn., is now officially ‘McGivney City.’”


A few American-born men besides McGivney are 
blessed, too. Among them is Stanley Rother, an Oklahoman 
priest who was martyred during Guatemala’s civil war. It is 
difficult to know whose proponents will attain their final 
certified miracle first. According to McGivney’s great-grand­
nephew, a Bridgeport lawyer, the Vatican has received evi­
dence about a Connecticut woman who recovered from a 
medical emergency with McGivney’s aid. (The Knights did 
not respond to a request for corroboration or more details.) 
Depending on whom you ask, McGivney stands for 
the priesthood (his example redeems a vocation plagued 
by scandal), for baseball (he loved to play), for civic asso­
ciations (the Knights has defied their decline), for nuclear 
families (he supported them through tough times), or for 
American Catholicism’s vitality (his homegrown holiness 
could be its sign and seed). As the Knights’ avatar, he rep­
resents, above all, traditional Catholic manhood, father­
hood, and brotherhood, at a time when the Knights see all 
three under threat. “If more people knew about the virtue 
and the aims of Father McGivney, that could change our 
whole culture,” Dan Schachle said.


Two years after founding the Knights at St. Mary’s, 
McGivney was transferred from the church to one in 
Thomaston, Connecticut. He died six years after that, at age 
38. If he is canonized, the Knights will no doubt savor a spec­
tacle in Rome. Meanwhile, in Dickson’s tight-knit Catholic 
community, the Schachle miracle’s certification garnered 
little attention in 2020, when parishioners were preoccu­
pied with frustration about COVID-19 restrictions. In May, St. 
Christopher’s priest told me the miracle was “old news.”


Not so for the Knights of Columbus: A July 2023 pro­
motional video titled “We are the Knights of Columbus” 
features Dan discussing “Father McGivney’s mission” while 
a clip of Mikey with two of his siblings rolls. And not so 
for New Haven, either. The annual feast day dedicated to 
McGivney comes on August 13, between his birthday of 
August 12 and his death date of August 14. This year, it fea­
tured a special Holy Hour and Mass at St. Mary’s. For almost 
the first time since McGivney’s stint there, regular diocesan 
priests are pastoring at St. Mary’s, hoping their forerun­
ner’s rise will invigorate church life. One of the priests has 
brushed-back brown hair and a youthful face that make 
him unmistakably resemble McGivney.


During a Sunday Mass in April, in the back left 
corner of the church, one woman sojourned at length 
by McGivney’s sarcophagus. Branford resident Victoria 
Pallotto started frequenting St. Mary’s shortly before the 
pandemic, drawn in by the Dominicans. Although their 
departure rankled her, Pallotto has no trouble juggling 
devotion and disapproval. “We’re all humans. We all have 
faults and weaknesses and greeds,” said Pallotto, who pre­
viously consulted as a headhunter for the Knights.


McGivney has become more than a human: a myth, 
and perhaps many things more. To Pallotto, he is part of a 
heavenly world that coexists with ours. The wrinkle where 
the two worlds meet—where divinity becomes tangible—
is a matter of Catholic doctrine: the unity of body and 
soul. Maybe McGivney’s presence can help others, like 
Pallotto, bridge the gap. 


Long after he died, his inheritors have invested 
themselves in him, time and again. From Tennessee to 
Connecticut, and far beyond, they have made his vision 
their own, putting faith in a future he promises from 
above. Their investments are multiplying, past living 
memory of the principal. The greatest reward has yet 
to come. Call it spiritual insurance. The premiums have 
been paid. ∎
Ethan Wolin is a sophomore
in Silliman College.
This project was supported by a Howard Topol Travel 
Fellowship from Silliman College and by The New 
Journal’s Edward B. Bennett III Memorial Fellowship.



**Title: Becoming a Crew Man**
**Author: Tigerlily Hopson**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
My journey from cishet girl to British crew man to non-binary person. 
I
Became a British crew man. Five 
foot two, a woman, American, and I’d 
never rowed in my life. I swaggered 
about campus in a gold chain, spoke in 
a deep voice, affixed a “Yale Crew” decal 
to my computer case, and wielded British 
epithets. My friends expressed con­
cern about this sudden transformation. 
“When you start wanting to be a misogy­
nistic man, there is something to unpack,” 
one of them told me. I had gone from an 
ardent feminist to loudly talking about 
the girls I wanted to “fook.” 

My sophomore fall, the entire heavy­
weight crew team seemed to be in the sci­
ence class for non-science majors called 
Planets and Stars. I stared at the mass of 
muscly men, jostling and play fighting, 
their long legs splayed, their snickers loud. 
They were all tall, all blond, all British or 
at the very least Australian, and all sport­
ing chains. They looked untroubled. “Did 
you do the homework?” “Fook no, mate.” 
I was an anxious, straight, cisgen­
der girl who cared too much. I cared 
too much about school and the state of 
the world and my family and what peo­
ple thought of me. I cared until it hurt 
inside. Singing lullabies and making pea­
nut butter and jelly sandwiches with the 
crust cut off was how I spent my early 
teenage years. I was selfless for my little 
brother, like how my mom was selfless for 
me. Was this destiny for women? To care 
while the men walked off carefree?
In Planets and Stars, I also stared at 
the girls. In particular, a girl with a messy 
mullet who smoked cigarettes and made 
my cheeks tint pink. A friend told me to 
listen to we fell in love in october by girl in 
red. Fall leaves crunched under my boots. 
Smoking cigarettes on the roof, you look so 
pretty and I love this view. I tried to com­
plete problem sets, calculating the distance 
to stars. Looking at the stars, admiring from 
afar, my girl, my girl, my girl.
Transfixed by crew men, I dressed up 
as one for Halloween. Backwards baseball 
cap, athletic shorts, and Kyle’s gold chain. 
I yelled the whole night in a British man’s 
voice. When I sat, I manspread. When I 
walked, I swaggered. When I danced, I 
thrashed. I didn’t care how men saw me, 
euphoric in this new embodiment.
I never took the chain off. I perma­
nently spoke an octave lower. I shelved 
my bell hooks books. I talked about the 
girls I liked as if I was a crew man. “Yuh, 
she’s so hot, mate.” 
It was a bit—except it wasn’t. Did I 
want to be a man? Did I feel like I had to 
be a man to be with women? “Lesbians 
are not women,” my roommate told me 
when I came to her, distressed. She was 
quoting Monique Wittig. Gender is 
oppositional—the identity of women 
is relational to men, and vice versa. As I 
desired women, and wished to be desired 
by women, I no longer perceived the male 
gaze. I flailed about in my womanness, 
unmoored. What I had been told all my 
life made me unattractive to men—being 
assertive, being unfeminine—made me 
attractive to women. My face without 
makeup was not ugly, but handsome. 

It was my junior year, and I had set­
tled into my identity—I dropped the 
British accent and the “Yale Crew” decal 
from my computer. I fell in love with a 
best friend. This was a friend I shared 
everything with. We held hands. We 
gazed at the stars. We read feminist the­
ory together in the library stacks. I told 
her I wanted to raise children with her in 
a commune. She was straight. Until she 
started questioning her sexuality. Then, 
she started dating a man. 

She took me to a bench in the con­
crete courtyard of her apartment com­
plex. “This is where I asked him to be my 
boyfriend,” she said. “I’ll show you how 
it happened. You pretend to be him. I’ll 
be myself.” I sat next to her, legs spread 
slightly, so my knee touched hers. How 
would I sit if I were him? She told me 
how much she liked me. Her features 
blended with the dark. “Then we kissed.” 
Facing each other, our black eyes glim­
mering, we stared in silence. I want to 
be her boyfriend. It came suddenly and 
strongly. I want to be her boyfriend. 

I wore ties and waistcoats. My friend 
said I looked good in them. My room­
mate found me sobbing on my bed. “I 
wish I had a dick,” I choked out. It was 
a biting wish that gnawed within me, a 
desire that throbbed between my legs. 
“Then maybe she’d be with me.” I told 
my friend I liked her, and sent flowers to 
her door. She stayed with her boyfriend—
leaving me with myself.
Personal Essay
“Here comes Dick, he’s wearing a skirt,                                                                                  
here comes Jane, you know she’s    
sporting a chain.” 
– “Androgynous” by The Replacements 


There are pictures of me when I was 
little in corduroy trousers, making sculp­
tures out of rocks, drawing with cray­
ons, running around in the mud. I loved 
princesses, and I loved superheroes. My 
hair was wispy and shorter than my chin. 
There’s another, a few years later, where I’m 
wearing a dress, my legs crossed, my hands 
clasped. I’m sitting below my boy cousin, 
who’s raised above me. My eyes look blank. 
I remember thinking I had to sit pretty. 

In my dorm room, I struggled in 
solitude. My body was ill with anxiety 
and my mind clouded by depression. I 
was peeling away old trauma, unlearning 
self-sacrifice and impossible standards 
for productivity and impulses to caretake. 
Underneath I discovered sexuality—I like 
girls!—and something else. Hidden away 
was a kid in corduroy trousers wanting a 
chance to grow up. I found my self deep 
inside, and it felt—androgynous. 

My haircutter and I usually inces­
santly gossip, but this time we are strictly 
silent. She is concentrated. Chunks fall to 
the floor. When she is finished, we both 
look at me in the mirror. My face relaxes 
into a floppy grin. 

Little things give me joy. A pack of 
Hanes boxers. White undershirts for 
teenage boys. Old Spice body wash with 
an ominous octopus on the front. 

I’m wearing a necktie in a bar, swig­
ging a shot of whiskey and a Budweiser. 
A person comes up to me, and I play 
with her hair. They giggle. He tells me 
I’m pretty. She uses all pronouns—he, 
she, they—but tonight, she says, she feels 
girly. My body presses on hers as we lean 
on the pinball machines. “What are your 
pronouns?” she asks. “I don’t know,” I 
stammer, stupidly. “Well, how do you feel 
tonight?” I look at her, giddy and nervous. 
“They,” I say. 

At a bus stop, there is a grammar 
book stuffed behind the glass, block­
ing the schedule. “How to Speak Good 
English,” it reads at the top of the page. 
“If anybody thinks I’ll stand for that, they 
are wrong,” reads an Incorrect example. 
Anybody is singular, and may refer “either 
to a male or female.” They is plural, and 
refers to neither a male nor female. I dis­
cover I am ungrammatical. 

I like the plurality of they. It’s one 
word so expansive it holds she and he and 
everything in between. And yet, it also 
sheds she and he completely. It’s a pro­
noun of the self—beyond petty, old things 
like grammar books. I realize, I don’t have 
to be a crew man. I can just be myself. 
When I sit, I manspread. When I walk, I 
swagger. When I dance, I thrash. ∎
Tigerlily Hopson is a senior in 
Berkeley College.
Layout design and Illustrations by Alicia Gan


**Title: Snapshot Side Effects**
**Author: Tobias Liu**
**Page number(s): 18**

Burgeoning biotech development has residents wondering: can the city avoid 
the mistakes of past revitalization efforts? 
In recent years, new biotech development 
has reshaped New Haven’s skyline.



**Title: The Biotech Boom**
**Author: Tobias Liu**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
At 100 and 101 College Street, two 
opposite towers rise into New 
Haven’s skyline. Glimmering tinted 
windows conceal 1,038,000 square feet of 
labs and research space—a hub for the 
city’s burgeoning biotechnology sector. It 
wasn’t always like this.


Seven decades ago, former New Haven 
Mayor Richard Lee described this area, formerly the Oak Street neighbor­
hood and part of the broader Hill 
neighborhood, as a “hard core of 
cancer which had to be removed.” 
To Lee, the neighborhood’s 
poverty was a disease that could 
metastasize and infect other parts 
of the city. He acted swiftly to 
contain it: in 1959, Oak Street 
became the first victim of New 
Haven’s federally funded urban 
renewal plan, which promised to 
bring an old, industrial city into a 
new economic era.


The Oak Street Connector 
was born. A limited access expressway 
designed for high-speed traffic, it aimed to 
extend Route 34 from Interstate 95 through 
New Haven, connecting the suburbs to the 
city. Lee hoped this plan would result in 
long-sought economic development. But 
by the 1970s, funding had dried up, and by 
the 1990s, construction to finish Route 34 
was abandoned. 


Five thousand demolished living 
units, 350 closed businesses, twenty-three 
thousand displaced people, and a mile-
long “Expressway to Nowhere” stood 
testament to Lee’s first-line therapy. His 
supposed cure for “cancer” had severed the 
Hill neighborhood from downtown New 
Haven, accelerating the Hill’s decline.


Five decades later, the city again set 
its sights on Oak Street, this time under 
Mayor John DeStefano Jr. In 2010, the 
City won a $16 million federal grant for 
the Downtown Crossing Project. It would 
transform the Oak Street Connector from 
a limited access highway into an “urban 
boulevard” with sidewalks and businesses. 
The goal of the DCP was to reconnect the 
two parts of downtown that the highway 
had separated for 60 years. The grant was 
a significant contribution for a city with a 
budget of around $475 million at the time.


DeStefano assembled a team of pro­
fessionals and city adminis­
trators to brainstorm ideas for 
redeveloping the highway to 
create long-term economic value. 
The center of that redevelopment, 
they decided, would be the bud­
ding biotech industry. Fueled 
largely by innovation from Yale 
researchers, biotech leverages 
biological research to create new 
medical treatments and technologies—
breakthroughs that the city hoped would 
erupt here in New Haven.


Amid the City’s efforts to fix Lee’s 
urban renewal “cure for cancer,” the literal 
fight against human cancer and disease 
has become remarkably significant.


“The synergy between the growth 
of the [biotech] industry and the desire 
to remove the highway came together 
at just the right time,” said Michael 
Piscitelli, New Haven’s current Economic 
Development Administrator.


The city and Yale envision an eco­
nomic renewal centered around bio­
tech. But New Haven and Yale have a 
history of letting big-picture economic 
development blot out residents’ needs, as 
the failures of their 1960s urban renewal 
effort demonstrate.


The question of who will benefit from 
the city’s investment in biotech remains 
fraught. Jobs in biotech are often inacces­
sible to people without advanced degrees. 
And as expensive real estate for these firms 
reshapes New Haven’s skyline, some res­
idents are left wondering if the city has 
pushed their need for affordable housing 
to the side.  


In 2013, after years of planning, 
DeStefano initiated the demolition of the 
54-year-old Oak Street Connector. “What 
was once a symbol of lost opportunity will 
again become a thriving part of our com­
munity,” he said at the time. 


The question remains: as New Haven 
expands into a new era of urban develop­
ment—largely focused on bolstering bio­
tech—will the city repeat past mistakes of 
ignoring residents’ needs? 


New Haven’s recent surge in bio­
tech traces back to 1992, when Alexion 
Pharmaceuticals, founded by Yale 
professor Leonard Bell, became the 
city’s first major success in the indus­
try. In 2007, the company launched a 
blockbuster immunosuppressive drug, 
Soliris. Fourteen years later, Alexion 
was acquired by AstraZeneca. The 
company now occupies 100 and 101 
College Street. 


“[Alexion] set the standard for the 
ability of our community to mature a 
biotech company,” Piscitelli said.


When DeStefano first stepped into 
office in 1994, he began to develop a part­
nership with then-Yale president Richard 
Levin, turning to the biotech industry as 
a potential remedy for the city’s declining 
economy. Ideally, the partnership would 
be mutually beneficial: the University 
would translate its research into Yale-
licensed technologies, while New Haven’s 
economy would benefit from housing a 
growing, lucrative industry. 


This new focus on technology transfer 
was formalized in 1995, when Yale tripled 
the budget of the Office of Cooperative 
Research—an entity created to translate 
research from Yale into products—and 
hired a former Pfizer executive to serve as 
its director. The OCR began to work closely 
with faculty whose research had potential 
commercial value to find investors. By 
2000, 13 biotechnology companies had 
sprung up in New Haven.


The investment in biotechnology 
began to physically change the city’s urban 
landscape. Yale hired developer Carter 
Winstanley to create private sector lab 
space for companies near the univer­
sity. In 2000, Winstanley developed a 
nine-story biomedical research build­
ing at 300 George Street. By 2005, the 
space was fully leased to Yale, Yale 
New Haven Hospital, and a variety of 
biotechnology companies.


Through the recession of the late 
2000s, Yale and New Haven’s new bio­
tech machine continued to churn out new 
companies as the university helped its 
researchers monetize their work by invest­
ing in them and connecting them with 
venture capitalists. In 2009 alone, Yale 
churned out 5 new startups, and by 2010, 
the number of biotech companies in New 
Haven rose to around fifty. Developers 
raced to keep up with demand for labo­
ratory space, and office occupancy rates 
rose. By then, Winstanley owned over 
one million square feet of commercial 
space between projects at Science Park 
and 300 George Street—but this still 
wasn’t enough space to support the rapid 
pace of new lab-space-dependent biotech 
research flying out from Yale. 


“The pattern of history is always on 
our mind,” Piscitelli said. “The city paid a 
heavy price for urban renewal. We want to 
make sure we learned from that experience, 
that new development speaks to the future.”


still, the irony of the city’s plan—
fixing one urban renewal failure with 
another—isn’t lost on New Haven resi­
dents, as the comments sections of New 
Haven Independent articles about the 
Downtown Crossing Project and the 
city’s investment in biotech suggest.


“The city should have a plan in place 
for a developer to build a 40-story apart­
ment building on the future site that would 
be across from 101 College…where people 
can mostly live, but also work and play,” 
writes commenter @_quinnchionn_.


“New Haven has spent millions on in 
the past decade, correcting the work by 
the cities ‘Best and the Brightest’ urban 
designers of yore,” writes @George Polk.


“New Haven is two cities, and I fear 
the growth of the industry will exacer­
bate the divide between them. I trust that 
most of the folks working in biotech are 
fine individuals. But I suspect few under­
stand what it is like to live paycheck to 
paycheck (I don’t.) And they will be able 
to afford the rents in the new develop­
ments. Few New Haveners can,” writes  
@Kevin McCarthy.


Anstress Farwell, president of the 
New Haven Urban Design League, an 
independent nonprofit voice on plan­
ning and development issues, is also 
wary. When the plans for the Downtown 
Crossing Project came out in 2012, 
Farwell and the New Haven Urban 
Design League released a thirty-page 
report on its flaws, arguing that the plan 
does not actually serve its purpose of 
connecting the Hill to downtown New 
Haven. Further, Farwell worries that 
the plan prioritizes cars over pedestri­
ans. Farwell told me that some of the 
designs in the final plan had changed 
from the original vision that won the 
federal grant—changes, she said, that 
reflected the city’s tendency to align with 
Winstanley’s interests. 


“[Winstanley] is a facility planner, not 
an urbanist,” Farwell said. “He’s focused 
on operations, not on infrastructure and 
creating systems that need to be at certain 
standards.” She worries that Winstanley’s 
emphasis on parking space over side­
walks will result in “dead economic space,” 
as a parking garage employs hundreds 
less than an inhabited business and 
would pay less in taxes. While such park­
ing space would accommodate suburban 
commuters and make new development 
more immediately profitable, Farwell 
argues that it would do little for the 
Downtown Crossing’s goal of reconnect­
ing Oak Street. 


Farwell showed me two maps that 
hung in her office: one of off-street park­
ing in New Haven in 1951 and another of 
parking in 2008. The difference is stark: on 
the second map, the red spots indicating 
parking take up almost half of the page. 


Over email, Winstanley wrote that 
he agreed with the goal of minimizing 
parking, saying that 101 College Street. 
used a parking garage shared by several 
different buildings, and that the building 
had 86 percent less onsite parking than 
100 College Street. “While not perfect, it 
seems like a significant step in the right 
direction,” Winstanley wrote. 


Keeping a parking garage out of 101 
College Street made room for a public 
plaza, allowing people from the neigh­
borhood to “walk right out into the 
space,” Piscitelli said. It aligned with 
the city’s goal to create what he called a 
“more vibrant street life.” 


Flawed or not, the Downtown 
Crossing Project and the construction 
of the College Street towers have likely 
solidified what city historian Michael 
Morand described as New Haven’s new 
“eds and meds” economy for the future. 


While Morand is skeptical that a bio­
tech surge will match the employment 
levels of New Haven’s old manufacturing 
giants such as the Winchester Repeating 
Arms Company, he is optimistic that the 
industry could provide an important base 
for the city’s economic development. 


“The economy used to rely on man­
ufacturing guns and weapons of war,” 
Morand said. “The new focus is on 
human health. A good transition!”


employment in New Haven’s old 
weapons manufacturing industry gener­
ally did not require an advanced educa­
tion, allowing all, regardless of education 
level or origin, to access jobs in the 19th 
and early 20th century. Meanwhile, 90 
percent of biotech jobs require at least 
a bachelor’s degree, according to Peter 
Dimoulas, grant program administra­
tor for Southern Connecticut State 
University.


“That means that for the growth to 
benefit residents, there needs to be a 
strong commitment to investment in edu­
cation and job training,” Morand said. 


In response, the city has created 
several initiatives aimed at preparing 
New Haven Public School students for 
careers in biotech.


The first of these initiatives was 
BioPath, a nonprofit partnership between 
the city and SCSU. In 2015, the city and 
the university signed a memorandum of 
understanding to support career advance­
ment in the biosciences.


BioPath has developed events such 
as the New Haven Science Fair and 
other programs to help teachers under­
stand what a career in biotech looks like 
and incorporate it into their lesson plans. 
Funding for BioPath has come from 
industry partners like Alexion. The goal is 
to create pipelines for students from New 
Haven Public Schools to jobs in biotech.


“We need to make sure that we’re not 
selling them a pipe dream,” Dimoulas said.


During 101 College Street’s develop­
ment, Winstanley decided to place a class­
room in the center of the building, which 
has become an integral part of BioPath’s 
BioCity program. The program selects a 
cohort of high school juniors from four 
New Haven public schools for a biotech 
career training series.


“The program’s goal is to get real life 
exposure to what science is really like,” said 
Robert McCain, science supervisor for 
New Haven Public Schools. “Hopefully 
[students] go into biosciences as their 
major, and give back to New Haven by 
getting a job here, because there’s so many 
bioscience openings.” 


McCain hopes to expand the program, 
but its grant funding—$1.5 million from 
the American Rescue Plan and $1.5 mil­
lion from the Department of Education—
will run out in three years. He’s looking for 
different ways to find the money needed 
to continue the program, but he knows it 
will be a challenge. 


“When we started researching, we 
were trying to model ourselves after 
someone who’d already done this, but 
we couldn’t find any places that have 
done anything like this in a large urban 
city,” he said. 


Since 2021, BioPath has secured 
over 150 job and internship placements. 
BioCity hopes to reach 75 students over 
the next three years. BioLaunch, another 
similar program headed by Craig Crews, 
a Yale professor and the founder of bio­
tech company Arvinas, has cohorts of 
30 individuals each academic year. The 
numbers are not huge, but they’re a 
“proof of concept” that needs to be estab­
lished; then, hopefully, they will scale up, 
Piscitelli told me.


Katherine Perez, an alumni of Wilbur 
Cross High School and SCSU, told me 
how SCSU’s guidance in helping place her 
in a biotech internship with Medtronic 
“opened [her] eyes to see what’s out there.” 
After completing a master’s degree in 
physics, she returned to Wilbur Cross, 
where she had just finished her fifth year 
teaching an early college credit class to 
help high school students get a head start 
on their careers.


Melanie Burgos, who grew up in 
New Haven and also attended SCSU, 
told me that her BioPath mentorship 
helped place her in an internship and 
inspired her to found the “Latinx in 
STEM” club at the university. 


“The truth is, you need the experience, 
the research, all these things to succeed all 
while managing college. It’s so difficult, 
and [Dimoulas’ team] allowed us to find 
those opportunities. In my wildest dreams, 
I never would have thought I would have 
the opportunity to actually do research in 
a lab,” Burgos said.


She served as a panelist for the 
first two years of BioPath’s Connecting 
Students and Professionals of Color 
events—events that she said have 
allowed her to connect with industry 
professionals like Alexion, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, and Pfizer. 


As the city works with Yale and the 
biotech industry to mend their historical 
failures and move past their old industrial 
economy, they will need to replicate success 
stories like Perez and Burgos’. A successful 
new biotech economy will bring money 
back into the city, but could also raise the 
rent for those living in New Haven when 
affordable housing is already scarce. 


The city has plans to continue housing 
development in places such as Pierpoint 
and Church Street South and insists that 
their focus on developing on parking lots 
and vacant land reduces the displacement 
of residents from their homes. But renters 
still confront rising rents, and locals may 
find themselves excluded from the biotech 
job market in the city’s search for a cure.


“A rising tide lifts all ships.” said 
Dimoulas. “But the question that remains 
is: are the opportunities in New Haven 
also for New Haven? Can the average 
student from New Haven, Hamden, 
West Haven—can they gain meaningful 
employment among these companies?”


On most days, people in suits stream 
in and out of the College Street buildings. 
Dimoulas wonders if, in a decade, students 
from New Haven public schools—per­
haps from the Hill—may find themselves 
among them. ∎


Tobias Liu is a junior
in Trumbull College.


Layout design by Jessica sánchez



**Title: A Theater of Hunger**
**Author: Chloe Budakian**
**Page number(s): 22, 24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
For decades, Margaret Holloway performed 
Shakespeare on the corner of York Street in exchange for 
money. Behind the mythos of “The Shakespeare Lady” 
was a budding actress failed by a series of places and 
people—including at the Yale School of Drama.
*This article contains references to sexual assault.


I
f you walked past the steps of the Yale 
School of Drama between the 1980s and the 
early 2000s, you might have encountered a 
woman with wide, forceful eyes. She was thin, 
dressed in threadbare clothing, and often bare­
foot. She would offer recitations of Shakespeare in 
exchange for a few dollars.  
Her performances were intimate and musical—
she stretched her words out as if she were hum­
ming, until each sentence became a tune of its own. 
For her, theater was survival. It gave her an income 
and a means of expression. But she wasn’t always 
able to perform. She had paranoid schizophrenia, 
which came with debilitating hallucinations and 
bouts of aggression; sometimes, she would yell 
frighteningly at her sidewalk audience. To onlook­
ers, she inhabited a gray space between reality and 
fiction. When did the performance stop and the 
person begin? 
Her name was Margaret Holloway—perhaps 
better known as “The Shakespeare Lady.” She grad­
uated from the Yale School of Drama in 1980. After 
graduation, she spent much of her life without sta­
ble housing, reciting Shakespeare to stay afloat.
For decades, observers have spun competing 
interpretations of Holloway’s life. One 2004 New 
York Times article identified her as a “street poet” 
with an “antic disposition.” An obituary, also pub­
lished in The Times after her death in 2020, called 
her “a once-promising director and actor who strug­
gled with mental illness and drug addiction.” Spike 
Lee featured her in his documentary series “​​New 
York Epicenters 9/11-2021½.” Multiple playwrights 
are turning her life into scripts, and Emmy Award-
winning actress Uzo Aduba expressed an interest in 
developing Holloway’s story into a feature film.
Retellings of Holloway’s life have strung 
together sparse and often reductive pieces of infor­
mation. Some stories portray her as the victim of 
a terrible mental illness, but others frame her as a 
proud woman who refused help, culpable for her 
own suffering.
This article is an attempt to tell Holloway’s 
story in its entirety, exploring the talent that pro­
pelled her to Yale, the people who isolated her, and 
the structures that failed her. Through thirteen 
interviews and dozens of documents tracing back 
to her childhood, this piece interrogates what is 
known and unknown about the life and artistry of 
Margaret Holloway—the woman who made York 
Street her stage.
***
Margaret holloway was born on September 
7, 1951, to Walter Holloway, a preacher, and Bertha 
Holloway, a bus cleaner and homemaker. She was 
raised in Albany, a Black Belt county in Georgia. In 
1961, when Holloway was 10 years old, Black local 
leaders, assisted by Martin Luther King Jr., began 
the first mass desegregation campaign of the civil 
rights movement. In 1964, Albany High School 
desegregated. Four years later, Holloway transferred 
there at the start of her junior year.
Most of her peers would remain in Albany for 
the rest of their lives. Those pursuing higher educa­
tion would likely end up at the local junior college or 
state university. Not Holloway. In the spring of her 
junior year, she applied to A Better Chance (ABC), 
a program that placed high-performing students of 
color in prestigious boarding schools.
When Holloway arrived at ABC’s preparatory 
summer program in 1968, teachers remarked that 
she had “weak writing,” “below satisfactory” vocabu­
lary, and “tremendous gaps” in mathematics. In a log 
of Holloway’s progress, a tutor initially noted her as 
“well-mannered but shy.” 




**Title: A Theater of Hunger**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
September 2024
A Theater of Hunger
As Holloway became more comfortable with 
her cohort, her teachers grew intrigued, if not 
charmed by her. “From Holloway’s writing, one 
gets a sense of explosion, spewing forth, release––as 
though she had never expressed herself out loud 
on paper before,” wrote one English teacher. The 
teacher described Holloway’s intuitions about liter­
ature as “unusually mature,” observing that students 
would defer to Holloway before contributing their 
own responses, as if she were their spokesman. 
Though she was shrewd, she was not without 
humor. In Holloway’s progress log, a tutor recounts 
a story Holloway told about a white Albany High 
classmate who called her a slur and demanded 
answers to a math assignment: “Holloway gave her 
all the wrong answers and is enjoying the fact that 
the girl is still taking geometry.”

At the end of the ABC program, its direc­
tor, Dr. Frank Morral, recommended Holloway to 
Northfield Mount Hermon, a boarding school in 
Massachusetts. 
The Northfield Class of 1970 had 198 students. Faces 
from the yearbook suggest that nine of them were Black. 
“I am the only black student in my dorm and it 
can get quite depressing at times,” Holloway wrote in 
a letter to Morral. “It isn’t a very good feeling knowing 
my background when all I hear is talk about ski trips; 
$500.00 coats, (just for classes), vacations in London, 
etc.” One of Holloway’s few Black classmates, Cornell 
Hills, remembered a similar isolation. “You couldn’t be 
Black at Northfield Mount Hermon without hang­
ing out with somebody [from the African American 
society] otherwise you would’ve gone insane. Like you 
were in hell with nobody to talk to.”

Even among other Black students, Holloway 
didn’t fit in completely. Hills remembers her as seri­
ous, intense, and even intimidating. “Back then if 
you wore an afro, you’re immediately identified as 
being somewhat militant,” Hills said.  
Holloway had dark skin, and Hill remembers 
that she was perceived as the most “African” woman 
at Northfield. Hills remembers Holloway had few 
friends, and few romantic prospects. “She might 
have been seen as being too Black,” he said. 
In varying degrees, Holloway lived on the out­
skirts of ABC, Northfield Mount Hermon, and the 
AFRO-AM Society. 

Despite her alienation, Holloway found auton­
omy at Northfield. “A person does not have to live 
up to any reputation, there is almost no outside 
interference, and your parents cannot keep there 
[sic] apron strings choked around your neck,” she 
wrote in a letter to Morral. 
After graduating from Northfield, Holloway 
attended Carleton College for a year as a compar­
ative religion major. There, she acted in student 
productions for the first time and fell in love with 
theater. After her freshman year, Holloway trans­
ferred to Bennington College in southern Vermont, 
where she enrolled as a drama major. 

It was at bennington, a small, private liberal arts 
college, that Holloway’s best friend and dormmate 
Laura Spector first heard the word “trust fund.” 
Holloway as shown in her high school yearbook. 
Holloway performs “Recipe” at Bennington. 


Their friendship was not an obvious match. 
“Looking at us, you would never put two and two 
together,” Spector said. Spector, who is white, was a 
tiny dance major (“5’1 and a half,” she said, empha­
sizing the “half”). And there was Holloway: outspo­
ken, “stunning, six feet, gorgeous” with long, slender 
limbs, piercing eyes, and an afro. Spector remembers 
her laugh well. Her shoulders would shrug, she’d let 
out big, whooping giggles, and her head would bob 
as she covered her mouth. 

Spector and Holloway formed a friend group with 
two other students, including Philemona Williamson, 
now a prolific visual artist. “It was a family, the best 
family I ever had,” Spector reminisced. “I think for 
Margaret, too, it was like a really bonded family.”

At Bennington, privilege was assumed, not dis­
played. Students were artists: they lived in the woods 
with personal studios. Ski coats were replaced with 
big overalls and flowing skirts. When commitment 
to high art was the standard, students were regarded 
more for their talent than their family history. And 
Holloway had talent in spades. 

The qualities that had isolated Holloway—her 
charisma, her physical presence, her wit, her laugh­
ter—bonded her to her new cohort. According to 
three classmates, Holloway was a Bennington star. 
“They viewed her with absolute respect. Absolute awe. 
She was a queen,” Spector said. 

Every year, Bennington students took a non-res­
ident term to pursue their art in the “real world,” 
which often brought them to a second bubble: New 
York City. But Holloway, who lacked the same famil­
ial wealth as her peers, remained at Bennington.

In fact, Holloway was estranged from her par­
ents entirely. Of the thirteen people I spoke to—
close friends, artistic collaborators, acquaintances 
who knew her only as the Shakespeare Lady—all 
mentioned that she talked openly about paren­
tal abuse. Some recounted sharp tensions with her 
father, and many remember Holloway saying she 
had been abused by her mother. 

At Bennington, Holloway had confided to 
Spector that a family member had raped her as a 
child. She was abused. She wanted no contact. To 
Spector’s knowledge, Holloway never returned to 
Albany after she left for Northfield. Holloway stayed 
at Bennington during holidays; for Thanksgiving 
one year, she went to Spector’s house. During the 
summers, she took on odd jobs at Northfield, ABC, 
and Bennington.  

Bennington was her family. The institutions that 
brought her to the North were her home. It was her 
Southern upbringing, however, that informed her 
first original play. 

On a sparsely decorated stage, Holloway stood 
alone, improvising much of the material and in total 
control. Holloway became Jeanette, a Black servant 
to a Southern white woman. Jeanette lamented the 
death of her first lover, who was lynched after “look­
ing wrong” at a white woman. Jeanette gossipped 
with her friends. She went to large parties. She 
attended a Southern Baptist church service. 
Repeatedly, Jeanette’s thoughts flash back to an 
early childhood memory when her mother, bathing 
her, told her what to expect from her life. In a parallel 
vignette, a Haitian voodoo dancer and drummer cast 
bones that prophesied the events of Jeanette’s life.

“The real strength of the play is that Ms. 
Holloway does most of it by herself,” read a review in 
the Bennington Banner. “She could just decide: this 
is it,” Alex Brown, a Bennington classmate, told me. 
“They’re listening. I’m ahead of them. Most actors are 
waiting to see if the audience is there.”

It’s hard not to read Holloway’s life into the 
play. Her life, like Jeanette’s, bore the weight of cir­
cumstance––of poverty, of injustice, of life as a poor 
Black woman in the South. Circumstance, and the 
limitations it imposed, became a kind of predestina­
tion for Jeanette, committing her to a life of poverty 
and discrimination. 

Not so for Holloway. No bones could have fore­
told that she would become a standout in one of the 
country’s most elite drama schools––nor could they 
have foretold what happened afterward. 

In December 2004, the new york times pub­
lished an article about Holloway. It was headlined 
“A Resurgent Downtown Wearies of a Street Poet’s 
Antic Disposition.” 
“Margaret Holloway chose Shakespeare [Hamlet, 
Act I, Scene II], of course, for her first performance 
after serving 53 days in jail for failing to appear in 
court on charges of disorderly conduct, breaching 
the peace and other urban theatrics,” wrote reporter 
William Yardley. 

In the article, Yardley quotes a bartender at a 
local pub. “She just badgers you,” the bartender says. 
“My buddy paid her $50 once to be left alone for a year.”

According to the Times article, Holloway was set 
to appear in court to discuss her use of crack cocaine 
and schizophrenia medication. “But perhaps most 
important,” the article read, “she must convince the 
judge that she has stopped offending merchants and 
passers-by on the gentrifying blocks east of the his­
toric New Haven town green, where expensive new 
condominiums are on sale just steps from her squalid 
third-floor room.”

In the public consciousness, Holloway had all but 
lost her name. To most, she was “The Shakespeare 
Lady”—a figure bearing the mythology that she was 
once a student at Yale. Yet, little is known about what 
happened when Holloway attended the School of 
Drama. When Holloway’s career was finally within 
grasp, circumstance plummeted her life in the oppo­
site direction. 

When describing the culture at the Yale School 
of Drama, Holloway’s classmate and one of the 
School’s first female directing students, repeatedly 
used the phrase “psychological torture.”

“It was like an Agatha Christie novel,” Gordon said. 
The directing students were immediately made aware 
that only some from their original class would make it 
through the School of Drama. “You look at your col­
leagues and go, ‘who’s gonna die?’” 

When Holloway was a student, the School of 
Drama operated on a probationary basis. For their first 
two years, no student’s spot was secure. Each year, fac­
ulty expelled students who did not perform up to par. 
Such was the philosophy of Dean Robert 
Brustein, founder of the renowned Yale Repertory 
Theatre. Brustein—who passed away in 2020—was a 
bold, relentlessly authoritative giant in the American 
theater scene. 

Brustein came to Yale with a pedagogical vision of 
“professionalizing” the school. Students Brustein cham­
pioned would get the opportunity to work with his 
professional actors at the Yale Repertory Theatre. 
It seemed to Gordon that the pressures of the 
School of Drama only strengthened Holloway’s ded­
ication to her training. Gordon remembered her as 
“intense,” “fearless,” and “regal”—impressively in com­
mand of her material. “I think a lot of people in my 
class were afraid of her. I was a little afraid of her too.” 

Brustein had “a few woman favorites,” Gordon 
told me. Holloway was not one of them. Gordon 
remembered how Brustein often overlooked Holloway, 
reserving recognition and opportunity for his favorite 
students—one of whom was Meryl Streep. “I would 
say Holloway was equally a star in the making but had 
to fight harder for everything she got,” Gordon said. 
Brustein had controversial opinions about race: he 
publicly criticized August Wilson, a Black playwright 
who advocated for theater about the Black experience, 
accusing Wilson of promoting separatism. 

In 1972, a group of eight Black School of Drama 
students staged a protest in front of the Yale Repertory 
Theatre, holding signs that read “We Do Exist” and “King 
Brustein is insensitive to black artists.” According to Yale 
Daily News coverage, the protestors expressed frustration 
over “stereotypical casting of blacks as marginal characters, 
and hostile attitudes expressed by the faculty at attempts 
to present elements of the black experience.”

Brustein chose not to comment for the YDN article. 
In many ways, the structure of the School of Drama 
spoke for itself. 

“This is the way he operates, on students’ fear of 
losing their Yale degree,” said one student in a 1975 YDN 
article. “He confuses loyalty with competence,” the stu­
dent continued. “His attitude is, ‘If you don’t like it, get 
out. And if you’ve come this far, what can you do?’”

In the spring of 1975, Robert Lewis, the head 
of the acting department, cast Holloway in a class 
production of “Death Comes to Us All, Mary 
Agnes” by Christopher Durang, a School of Drama 
alum and Brustein favorite. Lewis cast Holloway 
as the maid, a sexual role that required Holloway 
to take off her shirt and seduce two male characters. 
Later in life, Holloway said she felt she was cast as 
the maid because of her race. 

On March 27, 1975, Brustein received a letter from 
Holloway. In it, Holloway described how she had 
approached Lewis with concerns about the “physi­
cal nature” of the play, but he had dismissed her. That 
night, at rehearsal, Holloway says Lewis mocked her 
in front of other cast members by implying that she 
was too fragile to even hear sexually explicit language. 
“Although I didn’t show it, I was absolutely shattered,” 
Holloway wrote. “I could not believe that a man I had 
loved and respected and hung on to his every word for 
all these months had repeatedly insulted my person­
hood that way.” 

Holloway concluded the letter by expressing that 
she had “no place to turn.” “I considered begging out of 
the part, but after Bobby’s response I feared my acting 
classes would be in jeopardy,” she wrote. “I could not 
afford that. I cannot express to you the loss I feel.”  

On the official Yale School of Drama program, 
Dennie Gordon plays “Elizabeth,” the maid. In the 
published play, her name is “Margaret.”
Holloway had enough.

That same year, Holloway left Yale and went back 
to a happier time in her life— Bennington—where she 
pursued a master’s in theater. There, Holloway wrote 
and directed “Facials,” her thesis play. According to a 
review in the Bennington alumni magazine, the play 
examines the life of two women—a prostitute and a 
journalist—as they “wrestle with authority figures and 
sexual domination.” “My image was that both women 
were wallowing in shit,” Holloway said.

The majority of the 35-person cast were non-
drama majors. “I loved working with people who were 
new to the theatre who didn’t walk on stage to prove 
the same point they always had,” Holloway told former 
classmate Brown, now a reporter for the Bennington 
alumni magazine. 

Back at Yale, in 1978, Yale President Bart Giamatti 
did not renew Brustein’s contract. The next year, Lloyd 
Richards took over the School of Drama as its first 
Black Dean. Holloway returned to the Yale School of 
Drama in 1979, this time, as a directing student. 
Holloway returned to the Yale School of Drama in 
1979, this time as a directing student. 



**Title: A Theater of Hunger**
**Author: Chloe Budakian**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When she returned to the School of Drama in 
1978, Holloway chose the unpublished play “God’s 
Smoke” as her thesis production. The play, written by 
Bennington professor John Gardner, is relentlessly 
dark: set in the 14th century, it follows an abbott, a 
monk, a countess, and her kidnapper menaced by 
plague and hallucinating the presence of Death per­
sonified. That plague, Holloway comments in her final 
essay, parallels modern-day “disease and mental illness 
and violence” which are “at plague proportions.” 
Through the play, Holloway sought to showcase 
what she termed the “theater of hunger.” “We all have 
hungers,” Holloway wrote in her final essay: hungers 
for food, shelter, sex, reproduction, freedom, under­
standing, and distinction. Narcissism, too. However, 
she continues, “obstacle” forces, which range from 
natural catastrophes and birth defects to societal prej­
udices, tyranny, and repression, impede satiation. The 
conflict between our hungers and these obstacle forces 
is the subject of Holloway’s theater. 

Holloway placed her theater of hunger in opposition 
to “intellectual theatrics.” “In order to abstract the truth,” 
Holloway writes, “the artists must first know the truth.”
To know the plague, you must also experience 
the plague. 

In playwright and classmate Allan Havis’ mem­
ory, Holloway’s mental health started to deteriorate 
during her last semester at the School of Drama. 
Until this point, none of her friends I talked to, at 
Bennington or at Yale, had noticed signs of mental 
illness. Havis remembers Holloway’s intensifying 
substance use and emerging schizophrenia. 

Havis also noticed that Holloway would experience 
“cycles of paranoia.” She felt that faculty members paid lit­
tle attention to her, and that “she was not going to get the 
benefit of the so-called Yale mafia.” It certainly didn’t help 
that she felt Lloyd Richards was ignoring her. According 
to Havis, when Holloway re-en­
rolled at the School of Drama, she 
felt heartened that she had a Black 
dean, and she expected Richards 
to understand her and support her 
career. As Holloway approached 
graduation, her paranoia became 
more frequent, and she would have 
frightening moments of anger. It 
was unclear exactly what was hap­
pening to Holloway, but it was then 
that Holloway’s classmates could 
tell something was changing.

“Many artists of past and 
present have aspired to some 
notion of a theater of hunger,” 
Holloway wrote in the final para­
graph of her thesis. “Many were 
imprisoned, ostracized, driven 
insane, etc.” Nevertheless, she 
wrote, “these artists know that 
there is no separation between the quest toward a the­
ater of hunger and a quest toward a way of life.”
“We continue in this quest.”


Among holloway’s close friends, how she 
ended up on the streets remained a mystery. One 
man had a sense of how it happened. In the two 
years post-graduation, Richards received numerous 
accounts of Holloway’s increasingly erratic behavior. 
In August of 1981, Holloway, then a Yale graduate, 
sent Richards a letter regarding her interest in teach­
ing at the Yale School of Drama or Repertory Theatre.

Holloway had tried to launch her career. She 
worked with Brustein as an assistant director for a 
production at the American Repertory Theatre, fol­
lowed by a short post at The Everyman Street Theater 
in Washington, D.C. Yet Holloway ended up back 
in New Haven, hosting acting workshops for high 
school students. Richards did not hire her. 

Nine months later, Richards received word of 
Holloway again; this time from a librarian at the 
School of Drama. Holloway had stolen a book. 
Holloway’s behavior had become “markedly irratio­
nal,” the librarian wrote. In one instance, the librarian 
said Holloway scribbled nonsense on a piece of paper 
and pinned it to a bulletin board. 

A day later, Richards received a second notice. 
The librarian had threatened to call campus police on 
Holloway. She recounted that Holloway had left the 
building shouting, “Racism strikes again!”

In Bennington classmate Richard Dailey’s docu­
mentary about her, Holloway recounts being evicted 
from her apartment in 1983.  
Through her next two decades as the Shakespeare 
Lady, a legion of passersby formed a community 
around Holloway. They were struck by her recita­
tions, struck by her conversational wit, struck by the 
fact that, after a brief encounter, she would remember 
their names for years afterward. This circle included 
multiple journalists, a rabbi, local musicians, and a 
lawyer who represented her pro bono. 
“Her 
moments 
of 
lucidity were just aston­
ishing,” Dailey told me. 
“You could understand the 
vestiges of her genius that 
would come flashing out.” 
When Dailey asked 
her to recite, she’d go 
quiet before beginning. 
Something deep inside 
her would seem to shift. 
It was as if the words 
were committed to mem­
ory––committed to soul. 
She’d cut off some words 
quickly, but she’d hold 
others until her voice 
broke. It was rhythmic, 
hypnotic, 
declamatory. 
She did it all in a perfect 
General American accent.

Holloway’s classmates don’t remember her hav­
ing an interest in Shakespeare. Holloway’s street rep­
ertoire was a product of her theater education. She 


recited lines from “Medea,” “Canterbury Tales,” “The 
Tempest,” “Hamlet,” and “Macbeth”—all plays she 
acted in or directed. In one video posted of her act, 
she recites an excerpt from 
“God’s Smoke.” 
“I always took the idea 
that she was probably the 
most famous performer 
in New Haven,” Chris 
Arnott, Holloway’s friend 
and writer for the Hartford 
Courant, told me.

Holloway’s story as the 
Shakespeare Lady, then, 
was ripe for interpretation.
“She was her own 
Greek tragedy,” Gordon 
said. “It’s so poignant that 
she held onto the drama 
school and the Yale neigh­
borhood, 
remembering 
that her best times were 
there when she was her 
best self.” 

Cecelia Rubino, a classmate who acted in 
Holloway’s School of Drama thesis, later included 
Margaret as a character in her documentary, 
“Remembering Shakespeare”. Rubino is less con­
cerned with the spin of the narrative, but the urge to 
turn Holloway’s life into narrative in the first place. 
“I’m just like, how could you film her?” said 
Rubino, “But I had the same thing of like, why am I?”


in 2005, Spector, Holloway’s best friend from 
Bennington, made a trip to New Haven. She hadn’t 
seen Holloway since the 1980s, when Holloway had 
asked her for drug money. By now, Holloway had 
stopped her recitations on York Street and moved 
into state-assisted housing. She seemed healthier—
less frail than she did in the days she was addicted to 
crack cocaine. 

In her apartment, “time stood still.” “It was 
just like a dorm room,” Spector told me. “She had 
Michael Jackson, and she had Motown and all that.” 
When Spector and Holloway ventured out to get 
food, Spector remembers Holloway becoming “par­
anoid” and “internally small,” shrinking back as peo­
ple looked at her. 

In her final years, then cloistered in her 
apartment, Holloway had a regular visitor: Joan 
Channick, the warm but matter-of-fact chair 
of the Theater Management program at Yale 
School of Drama. 

Channick gave Holloway her number a few 
years prior but grew overwhelmed by the number 
of calls she was getting from Holloway. Holloway 
would ask Channick to bring her things or give 
her money. Mostly, though, she just wanted to talk 
about theater. Holloway would tell Channick sto­
ries about praise she received from Brustein and 
productions she directed. “I heard all of her sto­
ries over and over and over again,” Channick 
remembers. “And to be honest, I didn’t know 
what to believe.” 

In the last two years of 
her life, Holloway moved to a 
nursing home. Every month 
Channick would visit. Every 
time, Holloway prepared writ­
ten lists of things she wanted 
to talk about. 

When the pandemic hit, 
Channick and Holloway regu­
larly called each other. 
Then, Holloway stopped 
responding. After two weeks 
and no response, Channick 
began a lengthy back-and-forth 
with Holloway’s conservator; 
because they weren’t family, 
neither Channick nor any of 
Holloway’s other friends could 
know the status of her health. 
On May 30, 2020, at the 
age of 68, Holloway died of COVID-19. Nobody 
but Channick and Holloway’s family members 
knew until news outlets published her obituary.


To channick, Holloway reminds us of the 
“precariousness of anyone’s life.”
But Holloway’s life had been precarious 
from the moment she left Albany. Theater gave 
Holloway a means of interpreting her experiences; 
but elite institutions were interested in her tal­
ent, not her personhood. When Margaret arrived 
on the East Coast, she carried with her a child­
hood wrought with trauma. At every school she 
attended, some aspect of her identity—her race, 
her class––isolated her. 

As artists, friends, and family tell Holloway’s 
story, they decide how she should be remembered. 
Holloway becomes a caricature of the mad art­
ist. Or an inspirational story of an unbreakable 
commitment to art—the embodiment of her own 
theater of hunger. Or she’s just the Shakespeare 
Lady: mentally and physically ill, reciting non­
sense outside of the Yale School of Drama. This 
article, too, tells Holloway’s life through dozens of 
perspectives, but not her own. Holloway, like all of 
us, is a kaleidoscope of stories; she just doesn’t get 
to tell any of them. ∎
Chloe Budakian is a sophomore in 
Silliman College and an Associate Editor of             
The New Journal.



**Title: In the Crosshairs**
**Author: Abigail Sylvor Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

T
he imperative of skeet and trap 
is simple: shoot at moving objects in 
midair. Hit as many of them as possible. 
At a small red-brown clubhouse in 
East Lyme, CT—45 minutes from New 
Haven—12 Yale students fire away. 
Their targets are clays, 4-inch wide 
orange discs, shot out from an oscillating 
“bunker” machine. When hit, the clays 
fissure in a dramatic transformation from 
solid rounds to shards and dust. Their 
remains descend onto the field like ter­
racotta snow. 

Every shot emits a sonorous pop—
imagine the world’s biggest champagne 
cork coming loose from its bottleneck. 
But the members of Yale’s club skeet 
and trap team are used to this: they do 
it every week. 

With more than 100 years of history, 
a clubhouse of its own, and a committed 
(if small) roster of athletes, the Yale Club 
Skeet & Trap Team is a powerhouse in 
the world of college shotgun sports. Yet, 
few students at Yale even know it exists. 

On a national level, clay target shoot­
ing plays a significant role in conversations 
about firearm use. From some vantage 
points, it represents a middle road in fights 
over gun ownership, demonstrating the 
possibility that guns can fit safely and 
uncontroversially into the fabric of daily 
life. But a broad view of the sport, its fund­
ing, and the culture surrounding it pres­
ents a more complex picture. 

Skeet and trap are separate but simi­
lar events. In skeet, two bunkers fire clays 
which cross somewhat predictably in mid­
air. In trap, a single bunker fires clays at 
random angles, requiring quick reflexes. 
Trap’s existence precedes skeet’s by 
over a century. The first known men­
tion of a trap-like sport is from 1793 in 
Volume 1 of an English periodical called 
Sporting Magazine. In it, an article 
describes the emergence of an activity 
involving placing live pigeons in a small 
box—a “trap”—with a sliding lid. The 
trap was lowered into the ground, and 
on the cue of a shooter, its door was 
drawn open, releasing a bird into the 
line of fire. It was “the most infatuating 
and expensive amusement the juvenile 
sportsman [could] possibly engage in.” 
Clay pigeons replaced live ones when 
the sport crossed the Atlantic in the early 
19th century, and the cruelty-free version 
of the sport became a popular American 
pastime. Americans shoot skeet and trap 
competitively from the middle school 
level to the Olympics. 

In both skeet and trap, guns are 
unloaded with a “break action”—snap­
ping them open at a central hinge to eject 
old cartridges and insert new shells. It’s 
this mechanism that distinguishes them 
from semi-automatic weapons, which 
don’t require intervention to reload. 

The sport has widespread and sur­
prisingly bipartisan appeal, even for 
politicians who push for gun control. 
Throughout his 2024 vice presidential 
bid, Minnesota Governor Tim Walz has 
repeatedly boasted about having been 
“the best mark in Congress.” 

In 2013, President Barack Obama 
announced that he’d picked up skeet 
shooting as a hobby during his time at 
Camp David, the presidential retreat. 
Accompanying courtesy photos showed 
POTUS in wraparound sunglasses, his 
cheek flush to the comb of a wood-pan­
eled shotgun. 

This announcement came when 
the former president worked to ban 
assault rifles and high-capacity maga­
zines, as part of an intensified gun con­
trol push following the 2012 murder of 
20students and 6 adults at Sandy Hook 
Elementary School.

President Obama told The New 
Republic that he was speaking pub­
licly about his hobby to bridge gaps 
“Yale Club Skeet & 
Trap is the only active 
Ivy League shooting 
team, and one of 
the few teams in the 
Northeast to have been 
continuously active for 
over a century.”



**Title: In the Crosshairs**
**Author: Abigail Sylvor Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
TheNewJournal          September 2024
were built on a small offshoot of the 
property where the gunmen’s clubhouse 
sits, a cozy space with a taxidermied 
moose head on the interior wall. 

In 1984, Ed handed off the reins of 
the skeet and trap team to his son, Tom, 
who now runs all of Yale’s club athletics 
programs. Tom quite literally wrote the 
book on skeet and trap. His instruc­
tional manual, “The Complete Book of 
Shotgunning Games”, sells on Amazon 
for $19.95. The Migdalski name is all but 
synonymous with skeet and trap—and 
with Yale club sports at large. 

When asked about succeeding Ed 
as Yale’s coach, Tom responded: “Any 
collegiate club team of any sport needs 
engaged leadership that spans year to year 
for continuity and success.” He believed 
this was especially true for a sport as 
“logistically complicated” as skeet and trap. 
“We were simply lucky that I followed my 
father in this role,” he added. 

At Yale’s 2023 extracurricular bazaar, 
the skeet and trap table was set up in full 
glory. A tri-fold poster featured photos 
of the team’s 13 members hanging out 
at their clubhouse in East Lyme, CT—
making finger guns, high-fiving the 
camera with red plastic cartridge cases 
on their fingers, and walking back from 
a long day of shooting with their rifles 
slung over their shoulders. 

“It’s like my therapy every week,” said 
Linton Roberts ’24, a 2023-24 co-captain 
of Yale Club Skeet & Trap hailing from 
Gadsden, Alabama. “You just let it go for 
an entire afternoon.”

Roberts joined the team in the fall 
of 2019, at the beginning of his fresh­
man year. Like many, he’d found the 
between Americans with a variety of 
attitudes and experiences towards guns. 
“Advocates of gun control have to do a 
little more listening,” he said. 

The gun lobby, however, was not 
impressed with the President’s attempt 
at listening. 

“In his effort to pursue a political 
agenda, he apparently is willing to con­
vince gun owners that he’s one of us,” 
NRA lobbyist Chris Cox told The New 
York Times in response to the image. 
“Skeet shooting…doesn’t make you a 
defender of the Second Amendment.”  

The inaugural yale shooting com­
petition was against Harvard in 1888. 
Yale won. Newspaper records suggest 
that they continued to dominate for 
years after. 

Today, the team is small but mighty. 
It is the only active Ivy League shoot­
ing team, and one of few teams in the 
Northeast to have been continuously 
active for over a century. At many 
schools, teams have dwindled or gone 
extinct. The Harvard Shooting Club has 
been repeatedly abandoned and revived. 
Presently, it does not exist. 

Much of the Yale team’s fortitude 
can be traced back to Ed Migdalski, the 
father of the team’s current coach, Tom 
Migdalski. Ed was the skeet and trap 
coach in the 1960s when he began rais­
ing funds to establish the Yale Outdoor 
Education Center, which emphasized the 
sports of fishing, hiking, and clay shooting. 
The University footed part of the bill 
to establish the Center, and donors paid 
the remainder. The skeet and trap fields 
early weeks of college challenging and 
was suffering from homesickness. “To be 
frank, there were only six kids that came 
up here from Alabama, and I didn’t know 
any of them,” he said. “I was looking for 
stuff that I was familiar with.” 

Roberts had never shot skeet or trap 
before, but he’d grown up hunting with 
his family and had his own shotgun—
which he’d left behind in the move to 
New Haven. 

“To my surprise, Yale had this team,” 
said Roberts. “I was just like, ‘Oh my 
gosh, sign me up.’” 

Roberts began attending weekly 
practices at the team’s private off-cam­
pus facility. He looked forward to 
regional competitions at nearby military 
academies, the annual trip to college 
nationals in Texas, and the chance to 
enjoy some leisurely time far from the 
bustle of the city. 

The team prides itself on having 
a diverse range of student members. 
Athletes do all sorts of things when 
they’re not shooting—they are engineers, 
comedians, frat brothers, and musicians. 
Demographically, however, the team 
is more homogenous. In the 2023-24 
school year, all 13 members were white. 
Only 4 were female. 

These numbers do align fairly well 
with national trends in gun use and 
ownership, according to Pew. 49 per­
cent of white Americans have a gun in 
their household, as opposed to 34 per­
cent of Black Americans, 28 percent of 
Hispanic Americans, and 18 percent of 
Asian Americans. 

As for gender, 40 percent of men 
personally own a gun, and only 25 per­
cent of women do. 

Anna Oehlerking ’25 came to Yale 
fully aware of the existence of Yale’s skeet 
and trap team; it stood out among its 
Northeastern competitors for its longev­
ity and size. “It was why I chose to come 
here,” she said. “Well, that and they had 
an environmental engineering major.”

Oehlerking grew up in a neighbor­
hood where “everybody had a gun safe 
in their basement” and had competed 
on her high school skeet and trap team 
in Minnesota (a major shooting sports 
hub) prior to coming to Yale. Having a 
“tie back home” through shooting sports 
helps her “stay grounded,” she said. 

When Oehlerking joined the team 
in August, she brought her gun in tow. 
Several members of Yale Club Skeet 
& Trap shoot with their own firearms, 
though both driving with and shipping a 
firearm are bureaucratic headaches. 

Boosters of shotgun sports (espe­
cially male ones) often comment on the 
fact that events like skeet and trap offer a 
rare opportunity for women to compete 
on equal ground with men, even if fewer 
women participate. 

“There are girls on the team that 
weigh probably half as much as me, 
and they can outshoot me any day of 
the week,” Roberts said. “That stings a 
little bit.”

These repeated assertions of gender 
parity seem to respond to an unspoken 
association between guns and mascu­
linity. Empirically, more men own guns 
than women, and among people who 
do own guns, men are more likely to 
carry them, and to own more than one. 
Popular iconography is replete with 
images of men with firearms—G.I. Joes 
and their machine guns, cowboys with 
pistols in their holsters, school shoot­
ers-to-be ordering bump stocks online. 

Oehlerking, 
meanwhile, 
is 
a 
self-proclaimed “very liberal Democrat,” 
a vegetarian, and a pacifist. As a girl who 
shoots for sport, she wishes she could 
shed the association between rifles and 
senseless violence. 

“People associate recreational shot­
gun shooting with a lot of negative 
things,” she said. “All that stuff is terrible, 
[but] I don’t think it really has anything 
to do with the sport.” 

Skeet and trap are also expensive. 
With each marksman using 100 
shells per practice, which costs around 
$40 per person, the estimated annual cost 
of ammunition for a single practice with 
everyone in attendance is $520. If the 
team has 10 practices in a semester, the 
cost soars past $5,000. Then, there’s the 
price of transportation, food, and team 
gear, and the maintenance of the guns 
and the clubhouse where they’re stored. 

Some of that money comes from 
member dues, numbering several hun­
dred dollars per semester. Additional 
funding comes from the Yale club sports 
budget, though likely not enough to sus­
tain the team. Donations to the team are 
an integral part of its financing. Some 
of these come from alumni, who receive 
solicitations from the team several times 
a year. But the forces keeping Yale Club 
Skeet & Trap alive extend further than 
the Yale network.

National advocacy organizations 
and 
philanthropic 
groups 
funnel 
millions of dollars into high school and 
college clay teams each year. Some of 
these organizations are directly con­
nected to the gun lobby—legislative 
groups committed to blocking bills for 
universal background checks and the 
limiting of AR-15 purchases. 

In 2009, the National Shooting 
Sports Foundation, a “firearm indus­
try trade association,” launched its 
Collegiate Sporting Initiative to expand 
recreational and competitive target 
shooting across the country.
 The NSSF—run by Stephen Sanetti, 
who is the former chief executive of gun 
manufacturer Sturm, Ruger & Co.—
also runs the nation’s largest gun show, 
the SHOT expo, and lobbies against gun 
control legislation.

The NSSF has sent at least $20,000 of 
grant money to Yale’s team. Yale banned 
donations from the NSSF in 2013, as part 
of a broader ban on accepting money 
from business lobbying groups in order 
to eliminate laborious vetting processes.

Yet, Yale continues to receive money 
from the MidwayUSA Foundation. 

A 501(c)(3) with $273 million in assets, 
the MidwayUSA Foundation is run by the 
Potterfield family—whose fortune comes 
from running a private company that sells 
guns and related gear online. The foun­
dation helps skeet and trap teams raise 
money by providing a digital platform and 
organizing free fundraising events. When 
a team supported by the MidwayUSA 
Foundation raises money, it goes into an 
endowment account. Larry and Brenda 
Potterfield match it dollar-for-dollar. 

“We help those who help themselves,” 
said Jay McClatchey, a representative 
from MidwayUSA. 

The 
difference 
between 
the 
MidwayUSA Foundation and NSSF is 
that MidwayUSA’s sole organizational 
focus is shooting sports. A search for
Yale in the foundation’s “find-a-team” 
directory turns up an endowment listing 
for The Yale University Shotgun Club, 
managed by Tom Migdalski. According 
to the site, Yale’s team has an endow­
ment balance of over $168,000—17 per­
cent of its listed goal of $1 million. 

“We don’t advocate either way, from 
a political perspective,” McClatchey 
said of MidwayUSA. But this statement 
is only true in the strict domain of the 
MidwayUSA Foundation. 

Privately, 
Potterfields 
are 
major supporters of the National Rifle 
Association—the nation’s largest pro-
gun lobby, whose legislative arm stands 
in wholesale opposition to checks on gun 
ownership and use. Brenda Potterfield 
was a board member for decades, and 
in January of 2024, the Potterfields were 
named by a consortium of NRA-run 
shooting and hunting publications as the 
inaugural recipients of the 2024 Golden 
America’s 1st Freedom Award. 

Potterfields’ 
firearm-sell­
ing company, MidwayUSA, is an 
explicit supporter of the National Rifle 
Association as well. “No company in 
America is more dedicated to and more 
supportive of the goals of the National 
Rifle Association than MidwayUSA,” 
says the firm’s website, which also offers 
an NRA donation round-up program for 
online purchases. 

like all sports, riflery is satisfy­
ing. “I remember the first time I shot a 
perfect 25-straight targets,” said Robert 
Person, GRD ’11, a team alum and former 
assistant coach who now runs the skeet 
and trap team at West Point. “It’s an 
awesome feeling.” 

Of all the sports that deliver this 
rush of pride, skeet and trap are actu­
ally among the less dangerous. Football, 
rugby, and MMA produce far more 
injuries. Most sports, in fact, involve 
a choreography that either simulates 
or enacts violence—thwacking and 
tackling, hurling and hitting. In many 
sports, an attempt to score a point is 
called “shooting.” 

But skeet and trap is not like other 
Yale sports. A basketball team does 
not burn through $520 worth of bas­
ketballs in a single practice. A lacrosse 
team does not keep its sticks in an off­
site safe. A swim team does not need 
to decide if it will accept money from 
lobbying organizations. 

Skeet and trap is among the safer 
sports, and yet, holding a shotgun feels 
nothing like holding, say, a baseball bat. 
A shotgun is twice as heavy, freighting 
its carrier with a sense of responsibility. 
Everything must be done right—the 
opening and closing of the safety, the 
angle at which the gun is loaded and 
unloaded. The kickback bounces through 
the shooter’s entire body. The sound is 
loud enough to require headphones. 

In another context, or even fired 
in another direction, a gun has a lethal 
power no baseball bat will ever have. 

“Let’s face it,” said McClatchey. 
“Shooting is a political hot potato. A 
lot of institutions, especially colle­
giate ones, have divested themselves of 
shooting teams.” 

It’s easy to imagine that Yale might 
follow suit.

And as long as gun lobbying orga­
nizations powered by the likes of the 
Potterfields are funding shotgun sports, 
keeping guns in skeet and trap fields 
may also mean benefiting from the  
effort to keep guns everywhere.

For members of Yale’s team, this 
broader backdrop is difficult to escape. 
When Oehlerking tells Yale classmates 
about her passion for shooting sports, 
“they’re taken aback.” In her early days 
at Yale, these negative responses thrust 
her into a “moral dilemma,” she shared. 
She resolved this personally by 
viewing skeet and trap as existing on its 
own little island—the remote idyll of 
the East Lyme Clubhouse. 

“It’s locked away,” she said. “And 
I’m glad for that.”  ∎
Abigail Sylvor Greenberg is a 
senior in Pierson College.



**Baggage**
**Author: Anaiis Rios-Kasoga**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When i was seven years old I used 
to show people where I lived on 
my flat hand. Four fingers pressed 
tightly together as if glued, my thumb 
sticking out at 45 degrees. I’d point to 
the middle of my palm, and declare, 
chin upturned, this is where my mama 
lives. I’d point to my thumb, this is 
where my daddy lives. 

My daddy used to carry my bag for 
me, the pink flowered duffel I carted 
between lives. He lifted it because 
my small hand—the one that carried 
both homes—couldn’t. Daddy would 
load me and the duffel into his 2002 
Saturn. This car is as old as you, princess, 
his voice light and just a little bit mys­
terious. He’d strap me in the front seat, 
a finger against his lips. Our secret. My 
imagined adulthood made me closer 
to him, feet dangling, brushing the top 
of the bag. 

At Mama’s, his hand, not mine, 
carried the bag upstairs. He gave me 
a dazzling grin when he dropped it in 
the center of the room. I watched from 
my window as the red Saturn pulled 
out of the cracked driveway and peeled 
out of sight. 

I tried to lift the bag but it wouldn’t 
budge. I tried lots of different ways. 
Digging in my heels, leveraging my 
weight, I lifted with my knees. I grunted 
and groaned. I gave it a running start. 
I landed with a crash that brought my 
mama upstairs. The bag resisted her 
tanned arms too. She braced her knees 
and yanked. She coaxed. We tried 
together, pushing hard before pulling 
harder, we threw all of our weight at 
the little pink bag, screaming like caged 
animals. We managed about an inch of 
movement before we both collapsed. 
She scooted closer to me, enveloping 
my body with her own, both of us tak­
ing labored breaths. She asked about 
my trip and I thought about the front 
seat. The secret buzzing warmly, locked 
behind my lips.
. . .
The first time I am back in the bed­
room that belonged to a child I am 
twenty. The bag is still here, it sits as it 
always has, preternaturally still, loom­
ing in the center of the unchanged 
room. I wonder how the girl who used 
to live here could breathe. I cannot 
imagine how her small lungs could 
find space to expand with the bag 
filling up the room from floor to wall. 
My father’s sleek Impala rolls up 
the smooth driveway. When I go down 
to greet him after all this time, he 
sighs, impatience mars his otherwise 
unchanged face. I tell him I need a hand 
with my bag, which has only grown 
heavier over the years. What I could 
move perhaps a centimeter the year prior 
now has no give at all. He purses his lips 
but follows me inside. We haven’t spoken 
in a long time but there is a moment of 
mourning when he says that the Saturn 
was scrapped. He’d grown tired of it—
always breaking down. I lead him in, tak­
ing the first left upstairs. He doesn’t seem 
to remember the way. 
I point to it. Sitting there. The same 
place it was dropped thirteen years ago. 
Its weight bulges against the flowered 
seams. The quilted fabric stretching in 
odd shapes, its contents fighting to be 
freed. He doesn’t seem to notice that 
the pink blossomed bag that had once 
rested under my feet in the passenger 
seat would now easily fill the backseat. 
Really? his eyebrows say as he looks from 
me to the floor. This really isn’t some­
thing I can lift myself. I am so needy, so 
incapable, it’s unbearable. He would have 
thought I was raised better than this. I 
hold my breath as he moves towards it, 
grabbing the straps with both of his large 
manicured hands. I barely breathe as it 
lifts off the floor to reveal a flat dark stain 
beneath, one I have never seen before. I 
marvel at it until the weight becomes too 
much, his muscles give out and the bag 
is dropped once more, making no more 
than a thud against the worn carpet. He 
turns to me now and I think he may have 
grown a few inches, or maybe it is just 
that I have shrunk a few. He is just as tall 
as he was when I was seven. 
What on earth do you have in there? 
My throat itches for speech that will 
not come. We stand on opposite ends of 
the bag, the past and the future collapse 
around us. We look at each other, his face 
is mine; it’s like looking into a mirror. ∎
Anaiis Rios-Kasoga is a senior in 
Grace Hopper College.


**Eclipse**
**Author: Netanel Schwartz**
**Page number(s): 35**

It was in the harvest time,
when the lever gave
and the dam spilled over the grasses
and the seeds were not fresh to be planted
and the shoots were drowned in the rush
and the farmers’ daughters
went out to the harvest
and we the naked harvestless
ate of the bugs in the mud,
drank of the brown in the flood.
Your bellies, said the girls,
you are bloating your bellies with water.
It was not the sun we wanted covered;
not the sun whose covering
and uncovering
we wanted and feared.
It was the women in the field.
That and the thirst.


**Growing Memory**
**Author: Calista Oetama**
**Page number(s): 36**

VALLEY STREET AND WEST RIVER 
curl protectively around either 
side of the New Haven Botanical 
Garden of Healing. A group of twen­
ty-five volunteers gather at the entrance 
of the garden, just beyond the reaches of 
West Rock’s shadow.
Marlene Miller-Pratt leads the 
group on a tour. Though small in stature, 
she carries herself with an authority that 
compels her audience to listen closely. 
Her background as an educator shines 
through: until recently, she taught sci­
ence at Hill Regional Career High 
School, but today she has a more somber 
lesson for the volunteers.
“We have become part of a commu­
nity that none of us want to be a part 
of,” she says.
Twenty-six years ago, Miller-Pratt’s 
20-year-old son Gary Kyshon Miller was 
shot and killed in New Haven. In 2021, 
Miller-Pratt led the creation of the United 
States’ first permanent memorial garden 
dedicated to victims of gun violence.
Gary is one of the 676 people memo­
rialized on the walkway of bricks known 
as the Magnitude Pathway. The path­
way unfurls from the garden’s entrance 
toward the plaza, where benches bracket 
a lone elm tree in concentric semicir­
cles. Separated into clusters by a series 
of stone slabs—one for every year since 
1976—each brick bears the name and 
age of a victim of fatal gun violence in 
New Haven. Now spanning more than 
half of the garden’s length, the stretch of 
names inches further each year. 
In the past year alone, twenty-three 
people have died at the hands of gun 
violence in New Haven—an increase 
from sixteen in 2022—averaging one 
fatal shooting every two weeks. 
“And then we forget about it two 
weeks later,” Miller-Pratt says. She 
gestures toward the bricks. “There was 
really a life here. This life was 20 years 
old, that life was 14 years old, and we 
have a problem.”
I.
in 2012, twenty children and six 
adults were fatally shot at the Sandy 
Hook Elementary School, an inci­
dent which marked the deadliest mass 
shooting 
in 
Connecticut’s 
history. 
Since then, Connecticut has tight­
ened its gun control laws. State legis­
lation mandates universal background 
checks and bans assault weapons and 
high-capacity magazines. There has




**Growing Memory**
**Author: Calista Oetama**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
and their parents’ eyes would light up in 
recognition—I know his sister. I went to 
high school with her.

“It’s almost like a tree,” Foley says. 
“Someone along the way knows somebody who’s been affected, which is really 
hard to think about.”

By gathering all names into a single place, the garden presents individual shootings as interconnected under 
a larger epidemic of violence. It makes 
room for victims of day-to-day gun 
violence in the conversation that often 
leaves them out, demanding that they, 
too, are not forgotten.
not been another mass shooting in the 
state since Sandy Hook. But legislative 
changes have failed to address individual incidents of gun violence.

These day-to-day shootings, which 
frequently involve non-assault weapons, 
fall disproportionately on poorer, predominantly Black communities. One 
study published in 2022 found that the 
rate of death by firearm homicide is 22.5 
times higher for Black men than other 
Americans. Recent profiles of New 
Haven communities suggest that lower-income neighborhoods experience 
higher rates of gun violence.

A gun goes off; a community splinters.

“Those guns need to be turned 
in,” Miller-Pratt says. “But they’re not, 
because [their owners] are scared someone else might have the gun—not realizing that if they use the gun, they cause 
havoc for another family.”

After losing her cousin to gun violence in 2019, Hannah Foley ’24 first 
became involved with the garden as a 
leader for FOCUS, Yale’s community service program for rising first-years, and as 
a supervisor for a green skills internship 
program with Common Ground High 
School. While searching for victims’ next 
of kin, Foley was surprised by the number 
of leads her group would find through 
word-of-mouth. Students would mention victims’ names at the dinner table, 


II.


TYPICAL SITES FOR REMEMBERING the 
dead, such as cemeteries or war memorials, are static. Inscriptions on a headstone. A lone statue in the park.

Gardens, however, pulse with life. 
When Miller-Pratt moved back to New 
Haven in 2015, nearly 20 years after her 
son had been killed in North Carolina, 
she discovered Yale’s Marsh Botanical 
Garden. The life that thrived in this 
space—fish rippling through ponds, 
flowers swaying in the breeze—created 
a sanctuary for healing.

“That’s all I want to see,” she says. 
“The life that’s there.”

In 2018, Miller-Pratt attended a 
Survivors of Homicide support group 
meeting and discussed the idea for a 
memorial garden. Her vision resonated with three other mothers who 
had lost their children to gun violence: 
Pamela Jaynez, Celeste Robinson, and 
Winifred Philips-Cue. Through the 
Yale School of Environment’s nonprofit 
Urban Resources Initiative, the four 
women collaborated with the architectural firm Svigals + Partners, which had 
worked to rebuild Sandy Hook four 
years after the shooting.

“From listening to the moms…I 
knew that [the garden] needed to be a 
place that had a progression,” explains 
Julia McFadden, a designer for the garden who had also managed the Sandy 
Hook project. “An experiential type of 
place versus a single monument.”

The Lost Generation sculpture at 
the center of the garden embodies this 
principle. Inspired by Miller-Pratt’s 
belief that “for every life lost to gun 
violence, generations cease to exist,” the 
piece relies on shifting perspectives. A 
faceless aluminum family towers over 
the grass, each member strategically 
placed to create the illusion of alignment as the visitor steps through the 
entrance. As the visitor walks along the 
Magnitude Pathway to the other side 
of the garden, the family fractures.

Visitors who slow down and look 
closely can make out their own silhouettes on the metallic surface.

“I wanted it to be as reflective as 
possible,” says lead architect Marissa 
Mead, who designed the sculpture. “I 
had hoped that people would be able to 
walk up to it and see their faces in it.”

From the other side of the garden, 
the sculpture morphs again. As the visitor looks back from the circular plaza, 
surrounded by greenery and vibrant 
perennials, the family unites once more.


III.


since the GARDEN’s Opening the Urban 
Resources Initiative has held weekly volunteer sessions in the summer to maintain 
the garden. Volunteers emerge from each 
session with arms aching from weeding, 
but leave behind a greenspace dotted with 
new blossoms and fresh mulch.

Miller-Pratt begins each session with 
a tour of the garden. One morning, as she 
leads the group through the Magnitude 
Pathway, a soft voice asks if they can 
pause by the bricks representing the lives 
lost in 1995.

Shantay G., who asked to be identified by her last initial for privacy concerns, steps forward and points to one 
brick. A classmate. She points to another. 
A friend. Her voice does not falter.

“I mean, I can’t even count the people 
I’ve lost alone on my fingers,” she would 
later say. The death of her uncle was particularly difficult: she describes him as a 
dancer and a protector, but keeps the rest 
of his memory to herself.

Though Shantay had spent years 
passing the garden while commuting 
from New York to New Haven, she 
could not muster the strength to enter 
the space alone. Volunteering alongside 
the garden’s founders finally encouraged 
her to step foot into the garden and 
share experiences with other people who 
had also lost loved ones.

“Listening to their stories provides 
a way of healing,” Shantay says. “[The 
victims] are not forgotten because their 
lives meant something too.”

While death prevails in a cemetery—
coffin closed, headstone lodged—the 
lifeline of memory keeps flowing through 
the community that gathers in the garden. They restore what grief eviscerates. 
The corners of Shantay’s eyes crinkle 
up in a smile. “Community involvement. 
That’s what makes us whole.”


IV.


the NEW HAVEN GARDEN has inspired 
the creation of other memorial gardens 
across the country. In May 2023, Pamela 
Jaynez and other Hamden residents 
received mayoral approval to construct a 
similar site in Eli Whitney Park. Miller-
Pratt lists off other cities that have built 
gardens of remembrance: Philadelphia, 
Baltimore, and Durham.

Every second Saturday in June, 
soon after the flowers reach full bloom, 
members of the New Haven community gather in the garden for the Annual 
Day of Remembrance. Speakers such 
as Mayor Justin Elicker, State Senator 
Martin Looney, and Police Chief Karl 
Jacobson take turns reading the names of 
every person memorialized in the bricks.

Last year, it took 37 minutes to read 
each name. This year, it takes 40.

At one point, a mother wishes her 
son a happy birthday. He would have 
been 31. She ends her list of names the 
way every speaker does: “Say their names.”

“Say their names,” the crowd repeats.

After the mayor reads the final name, 
community members reach for each 
other. Miller-Pratt sits down and gazes 
at the pathway. Under the shade of the 
trees, she waits for the day the bricks 
stop growing. ∎


---



The New Journal was founded in 1967, under the following mission statement: “This university has once again reached that stage in 
history when people are talking about the New Yale, presumably to be distinguished from the Old Yale, which in its own day was 
presumably considered new. Wishing to share in this modernity, we have chosen The New Journal as the name for our publication. 
Besides, things seemed slow around here.”

Today, The New Journal is published five times during the academic year by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. One thousand copies of each 
issue are distributed free to members of the Yale and New Haven community. The New Journal is printed by TCI 
Press, Seekonk, Massachusetts; bookkeeping and billing services are provided by Colman Bookkeeping of New 
Haven. Office Address: P.O. Box 3311, New Haven, CT 06515.

While this magazine is published by Yale College students, Yale University is not responsible for its contents. All contents Copyright ©2024 by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction 
either in whole or in part without written permission of the editors in chief is prohibited. Recycle Icon 
from Flaticon.com.


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS (MAY) PUZZLE

PLAY MORE TNJ 
CROSSWORDS ON
OUR WEBSITE!

P
L
E
A
S
 
R
C
Y
 
T
H
I
 
M
G
Z
N


ACROSS
	
1	 “Love what you do!”
	
7	 1994 Tim Burton 
film about the title 
filmmaker
	 13	 Small development 
center?
	 15	 Big hit
	 16	 Drank before going out
	 18	 Make a call, say
	 19	 Prepare to fight, in a 
way
	 20	 Core development 
basics
	 22	 Edge
	 23	 Invent, maybe
	 25	 Singer called the 
“Queen of Neo Soul”
	 26	 Hunting garb, often
	 27	 Flight deck?
	 28	 Back in
	 30	 Just deserts
	 31	 Home of Ceres and 
Vesta	
	 35	 Flickering porch lights?
	 37	 Genre of “Abbott 
Elementary”
	 38	 Letters on a SNAP card
	 39	 Release, as a liquid
	40	 Curmudgeonly sort
	 44	 Seem suspicious, 
slangily
	 46	 Lose
	 48	 Ferrari of Ferrari fame
	 49	 God in the Hindu 
trinity
	 50	 Southern relative
	 52	
 relief
	 53	 Words said after a 
knock
	 55	 Establishments 
known as “izakaya” in 
Japan
	 57	 Nissan model
	 58	 Sail down the slopes, 
maybe
	 59	 “Whassup!”
	 60	 Take advantage of a 
do-over
	
	
DOWN
	
1	 Moment of collision
	
2	 Dentist’s tool 
	 3	 Uninspired quality
	 4	 Newton’s element
	
5	 Cry of woe
	 6	 Desert on the Skeleton 
Coast
	
7	 Airport figs. 
	 8	 Beats Dr.
	 9	 Religion also known as 
“The Craft”
	 10	 Setting in “The Picture 
of Dorian Gray”
	 11	 They’re wise beyond 
their years
	 12	 Like some fears or eyes
	 14	 Software testing phrase
	 17	 Resorts for riders
	 21	 Make famous
	 24	 Town on the Hudson
	 26	 One hunting for bugs, 
	 29	 Kosovar singer 
 Ora
	 32	 Act suspiciously, maybe
	 33	 Large volume
	 34	
 Canyon National 
Park known for hoodoos
	 35	 Work term?
	 36	 It’s tracked by many a 
doorbell cam
	 37	 They deliver
	 41	 Close to home, 
potentially
	 42	 National forest 
containing Wahzhazhe 
Summit
	 43	 “I don’t need that 
anymore.”
	 45	 Comic and actress 
Pedrad
	 47	 Capital once controlled 
by the Jolof Empire
	 50	 None too kind
	 51	 Are past?
	 54	 Ronda Rousey’s sport
	 56	 Do some swinging

Themeless Toughie
© The New Journal
September 2024
Puzzle by Jem Burch




Have an anniversary?
Aced that exam?
Rocked that performance?
Come celebrate at Claire’s!
1000 Chapel St, New 
Haven, CT 06510
Welcomes back 
students! Enjoy 10% 
off with Yale ID*
721 Orange Street, 
New Haven, CT, 06511 
203-865-1147
*offer valid until Oct 20

