Publication date: February 1, 1985
Volume: 17
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Peter Phleger
- Editor-in-Chief: Tina Kelley
- Business Manager: Marilynn Sager
- Managing Editor: Tony Reese
- Designer: Andrea Fribush
- Production Manager: Christianna Williams
- Photography Editor: Jim Ayer
- Associate Publisher: Hilary Callahan
- Associate Business Managers: Lauren Rabin, Rob Lindeman
- Associate Editors: Anne Applebaum, Rich Blow, Joyce Banerjee, Jim Lowe
- Art Editor: Beth Callaghan
- Associate Designer: Pat Santana
- Staff: Chris Berti, Adina Levin, Tamar Lehrich, Art Ling, Tom McNulty, Mike Sonnenblick, Barrie Seidenberg, Margie Smith, Pam Thompson, Corinne Tobin, Karen Yashar, Dan Waterman
- Members and Directors: Edward B. Bennett, Henry C. Chauncey, Jr., Peter B. Cooper, Andy Court, Brooks Kelley, Peter Neill, Michelle Press, Thomas Strong
- Board of Advisors: Gerald Bruck, John Hersey, Roger Kirwood, Elizabeth Tate, Peter Yager
- Friends: Anson M. Beard, Jr., Edward B. Bennett, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Jonathan M. Clark, Louise F. Cooper, James W. Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Jerry and Rae Court, David Freeman, Geoffry Fried, Sherwin Goldman, Brooks Kelley, Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr., Lewis E. Lehrman, E. Nobles Lowe, Peter Neill, Fairfax C. Randall, Nicholas X. Rizopoulos, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Dick and Debbie Sears, Richard Shields, Thomas Strong, Alex and Betsy Torello, Allen and Sarah Wardwell, Daniel Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Letters - 4
- NewsJournal - 6
- Between the Vines - 8
- "Abandon Hope, All Ye ... " - 8
- Whil searching for jobs as paralegals, paratroopers or paramedics, seniors cope with University Career Services and overcome the angst of indecisum. - Sarah Lyall - 10
- Overcoming Alcohol - Lelia Wardwell - 10
- Within Two Worlds - Tamar Lehrich - 14
- Learning to Live With Death - Joyce Banerjee - 20
- Seeking Certainty - 26


**Title: [Letters]**
**Author: [Various]**
**Page number(s): [4]**


**Title: [NewsJournal]**
**Author: [Michael Fredtag]**
**Page number(s): [6]**

A year and a month after Yale Divinity School student Sam Todd disappeared in Manhattan, his family continues its futile search for him, while some people speculate he doesn't want to be found.


**Title: [Between the Vines]**
**Author: [Not specified]**
**Page number(s): [8]**


**Title: ["Abandon Hope, All Ye ... "]**



**Title: [Whil searching for jobs as paralegals, paratroopers or paramedics, seniors cope with University Career Services and overcome the angst of indecisum.]**
**Author: [Sarah Lyall]**
**Page number(s): [10]**


**Title: [Overcoming Alcohol]**
**Author: [Lelia Wardwell]**

Students who battle alcoholism at Yale find the task more difficult because of the prevalence of liquor in University social functions, which may in itself shape harmful drinking patterns among undergraduates.


**Title: [Within Two Worlds]**
**Author: [Tamar Lehrich]**
**Page number(s): [14]**

Members of a small but cohesive Orthodox Jewish community struggle to balance their demanding religious practices with the desire to participate in the secular mainstream of Yale.


**Title: [Learning to Live With Death]**
**Author: [Joyce Banerjee]**
**Page number(s): [20]**

The nation's first hospice, founded by a Yale don, provides the terminally ill with a home-like setting and control over how they spend their last days.


**Title: [Seeking Certainty]**
**Page number(s): [26]**

**Klan Connection**
**Author: Names withheld by request**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
To the Editor: 
We are concerned with the opening 
paragraphs of your article "The Klan 
Comes North"(TNJ, Dec. 7, 1984)and 
their implications. 

We object to the connection made, in 
an otherwise well-researched and informative article, between a specific Yale 
event and KKK activities in Connecticut (" ... this year's vandalism shows 
.the ramifications of an increasing KKK 
presence in Connecticut cannot be 
underestimated.") What is described as 
an "overt act of racism" cannot be fairly 
and fully addressed in such a brief 
· opening vignette. Unnecessary fears 
and tensions were created; the article 
implied an increased KKK influence on 
the Yale campus which we feel was unwarranted by the actual events. 

We deplore any act of racism. As 
freshmen counselors our objective is to 
promote understanding among all students at Yale. 

Names withheld by request

Editors Note: We intended to express that 
while some people consider the Klan to be a 
humorous matter, there are several hundred 
residents of our state who do not. As stated in 
our article, "the KKK had nothing directly to 
do with this incident . . . it is unlikely the 
Klan will have much direct impact at Yale. 
We feel our readers deserved coverage of both 
the Yale incident and recent events outside 
New Haven, and we tried to keep the distinctions clear between them.


**Grounds for Repair**
**Author: Gary Lavorgna**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

I enjoyed Rich Blow's article on the 
residential college buildings and the sad 
state of their deterioration ("Yale's 
Decaying Colleges, TN], December, 
1984). To me, such terminology as 
"deferred 
maintenance" 
means no 
maintenance. I might also point out 
that as the buildings have become run 
down, so have the grounds. 

I have worked at Yale for ten years. 
During that time I have seen our groundskeepers' crew cut from 15 people to 10. One of our best senior 
groundskeepers takes care of the Art 
Gallery and Trumbull, 
Saybrook, 
Branford and Jonathan Edwards Colleges- singlehandedly! 

It is 
a 
monumental task simply to get the 
basics done. 

The lawns in all the colleges are in 
various states of neglect and deterioration. Each spring they are renovated for 
Commencement only to decline during 
the long, hot summer because of inadequate irrigation. The only areas that 
manage to survive are the ones where 
automatic sprinkler systems have been 
installed. 

The grounds maintenance budget 
has been so severely cut that often we 
have to work with equipment which is 
so old replacement parts are no longer 
available. 

Lack of preventive 
maintenance results in more frequent 
and costlier breakdowns. We have only 
two top-notch mechanics to maintain all 
the power equipment and vehicles in 
the science and central areas. 

I'm glad to see the college buildings 
being considered for renovation and 
refurbishing. I'd also be very happy to 
see the same attention focused on the 
grounds. The only hope seems to be 
better management of the limited 
resources that we all have to learn to 
live with and the hiring of more 
qualified and skilled professional 
groundskeepers. 

Respectfully, 
Gary Lavorgna 
Senior Groundskeeper, Old Campus


**Clarification**
**Author: _TN_]**
**Page number(s): 5**

Joe Levy's article "It's Only Rock and Roll" (TN], Dec. 7, 1984) described 
the band Singing Beach. The photos accompanying the article depicted the 
band The Whales from New London, 
led by To Benoit '82, on bass guitar. 

The Whales have 
released two 
singles on Orcabeat Records: "Buddy 
Lovers" and "Talk About the Weather." 

_TN_] regrets any misunderstanding arising 
from the omission of photo captions.


**NewsJournal**
**Author: Rich Blow**
**Page number(s): 6**

TV Cold Turkey 
Benjamin Persky's favorite TV shows 
are "He-Man" and "Mr. 
Rogers' 
Neighborhood," but the six-year-old 
hasn't watched them for a month. Along 
with hundreds of other children and 
adults in Farmington, Connecticut, 
Benjamin vowed to give up television 
for the month of January. He is part of 
an 
experiment 
first 
conducted 
in 
January 1984 and organized by Nancy 
DeSalvo, children's librarian at the Farmington Public Library. Last year 
DeSalvo coaxed over 1000 Farmington 
citizens to turn off their sets and this 
year, she estimates, that number will be 
even higher. 

Dr. Dorothy Singer of the Yale Family Television Research and Consultation 
Center helped DeSalvo organize 
the project, speaking to parents about 
the dangers of irresponsible television 
watching. According to Singer, "We're 
most concerned about the kid for whom 
television is the only contact with the 
outside world, the type of kid who 
spends six hours a day in front of the 
set. There is a surprisingly large 
number of children like that." 

Since 1976 Singer has been at Yale 
studying how television affects young 
children. "Another thing we're looking 
at in Farmington," she added, "is the influence of violence on television, particularly on shows like 'Hill Street 
Blues' and 'Miami Vice.' Adults can sort 
that out from their daily reality, but 
children can't, and they imitate what 
they see." 

DeSalvo plans to keep encouraging 
both parents and children to be more 
selective about what they watch now 
that the experiment has ended. "We're 
not promoting any kind of censorship," 
the librarian said. "The truth is there 
just isn't that much on television worth 
watching." 

Andrea Persky, mother of Benjamin 
and two other young children, agreed 
with DeSalvo. "This is a little like 
dieting," Persky said. "Once you start 
you always have to keep it up or else 
you'll just fall back into your old bad 
habits. My kids had a great time in 
January. They relied on each other for 
entertainment and didn't miss the TV a 
bit." 

-Rich Blow



**Title: Sophomore Sawyer**
**Author: Tom McNulty**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Sophomore Sawyer 
TD sophomore Eric Berg walked to 
center stage. Standing before the empty 
theater, he spoke the words of Mark 
Twain. Several weeks later Berg heard 
that he had won the part of Tom 
Sawyer in a production of The Adventures 
of Huckleberry 
Finn, 
opening 
this 
February at Chicago's Goodman 
Theater . 
. Berg had played Huck Finn during 
hagh school in an adaptation of Stewert 
Gordon's original play. Berg's director, 
Robert Greenberg, discovered that 
Gordon was planning a revival and sug· 
gested Eric as a possibility for Huck. He 
a~ditioned in October, and a phone call 
nght after Thanksgiving break brought 
Berg the good news. 
•r was ecstatic because I had to wait six 
~eek~ to hear," he said. "It didn't fully 
smk m until January, when rehearsals 
started." Scheduled 
to 
run 
from 
F~bruary 4th to March 3rd, the play 
waU be an ensemble production similar 
to Nicholas Nickleby. In addition to the 
role of Tom, Berg will have five or six 
other parts, including understudy for 
Huck. The revival commemorates the 
tenth anniversary of the original show 
and the tOOth of the publication of 
Twain's novel. 

Having done several plays in high 
school and such productions as The 
T'!'JfJtst, 
God and De~ and Twelfth 
Naght here at Yale, Berg is no stranger 
t? the stage. While he intends to audi-
tion for other professional shows, he 
lees theater more as a special interest, 
not a career plan. "~'ve got some friends 
who are professional actors, and it's 
tough when they're out of work." He 
paused, then answered, "I'll probably be 
an Econ.-Poli. Sci. major." 
- Tom McNulty 


**Title: Elm City Rollers**
**Author: Dan Waterman**

View up Chapel Street from State Street, taken by George R . Bradley c.1890. 
Elm City Rollers 
When they rolled out of the past and 
onto the streets last November, the 
three trolley cars caught the attention of 
many New Haveners. The trolleys 
transported passengers as a trial run 
for 
a 
new shuttle system 
being 
developed by the Downtown Council, 
an organization comprising many local 
businesses. 

According to Jack Sullivan, Project 
Manager for the new shuttle system , 
the Council thinks the system will 
benefit both public and private in-
terests and will contribute to the 
revitalization of New Haven. Citizens 
seem to agree. Of the 600 question-
naires returned, "The worst comment 
\-\<as-'lt's good.'" SuUavan said. 

Called "The Elm City Line," the 
system has three possible routes: a retail 
loop 
connecting shopping malls, 
businesses, theaters and hospitals; a 
harbor route allowmg access to the new 
Long Wharf complex; and routes con· 
necting downtown with parking areas. 
The shuttle should alleviate downtown 
parking problems and move customers 
closer to the business districts. 

Sullivan sees the system as benefit· 
ting the Yale community as well. "I 
think 
that 
the shuttle would tie 
students in with different parts of the 
city, such as the Long Wharf, which 
they don't have access to now," Sullivan 
said. 

The original trolley cars appeared in 
New Haven around the turn of the 
century and continued to operate until , 
buses replaced them in the early 1950s. 
These trolleys, however, are motorized 
and do not use the tracks required by 
their predecessors. If the Downtown 
Council's plans continue as scheduled, 
the sound of a clanging beiJ and the call 
of a conductor will once again become 
familiar sounds to New Haveners. 
-Dan Waterman 
The New JoumaVFebruary I, 1985 7 


**Title: Between the Vines**
**Author: Sarah Lyall**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

Between the Vines/ Sarah Lyall 
------~------------~--------~ 
'' 
'' Abandon Hope, All Ye 
• 
• • 
Marjorie Schlaijker looked glum as she 
stood in the front hall of University 
Career Services one January afternoon, 
staring at a wall full of job descriptions. 
"I get a stomachache," she remarked, 
"every time I come here." 

Schlaijker had been reading the des-
criptions for a while, but nothing looked 
promising. There were a lot of banking 
jobs. There were a lot of jobs for com-
puter science and electrical engineering 
majors. There were a lot of jobs she 
couldn't identify but which sounded 
lousy anyway. 

Waving her pen around, Schlaijker, 
a history major, said, "I'm writing down 
everything that says 'all majors.'" 
"Look at this- this sounds 
intriguing," she continued, brightening. 
"American Express Travel Related Ser-
vices. It sounds perfect- you get to 
travel." 

She made a note on her growing list. 
"I am never going to get a job," she 

In high school, there was college; in col-
lege, there are jobs. Worrying about 
college was nothing compared to this. It 
is true that there are jobs out there, lots 
of them, jobs in banks, in bars, in Ber-
muda; jobs as paralegals, paratroopers, 
and paramedics; as zookeepers and 
xylophone players and toll collectors 
and doctors. 

They're there, but you have to get 
them. 

Many of the more than 150 seniors 
who attend the Morgan Stanley 
informational meeting in November 
wished that they could get a job with 
Morgan . Stanley. They concentrated 
hard as representatives of the invest-
ment bank showed slides, and discussed 
mergers and acquisitions, corporate 
bonds, equities, tax-exempt securities 
and money markets. They took notes 
on earth-colored notepads. After the 
presentation some crowded around the 
Morgan Stanley representatives, asking 
questions and perhaps hoping to be 
remembered. 

"How many hours a week can we ex-
8 Tbe New JournaJ/February 1, 1985 
pect to work at Morgan Stanley?" asked 
one senior. 

"None," answered a classmate, who 
was eating little sandwiches and drink-
ing wine in the back of the room. 

"Oh, about 60 to 80," said the ex-
ecutive, smiling. Several people put on 
their coats and walked out. 

But the audience looked happy when 
the executive said 
that six Yale 
graduates "came aboard" at Morgan 
Stanley the year befqre. AI Puhala, an 
'83 Yale graduate who works at Morgan 
Stanley, showed slides of new employ-
ees falling asleep at computer terminals 
and dancing on top of their desks. 

"We have a good time at Morgan 
Stanley," he said. 

Scott Edelman, who was not paying 
all that much attention, noted that he 
had sold chicken fingers door-to-door 
on Long Island the summer before-
chicken fingers similar to the ones they 
were serving at the meeting. Luckily, 
Edelman never had to pull his chicken 
fingers connection; he got into law 
school soon afterwards. 

UCS (University Career Services) 
should not be called CAPS (Career Ad-
visory and 
Placement Services) 
anymore, even though no one seems to 
realize it. Located at 1 Hillhouse, next 
to the language lab, UCS provides 
seniors with a large amount of informa-
tion and advice, conducting strategy 
meetings on everything from choosing a 
career to interviewing for employment. 

UCS Director Susan Hauser, her two 
associate directors, five assistant direc-
tors and eleven staff members could 
not be more helpful. Many students, 
however, feel lost in the shuffle. 

"I don't understand how to read the 
information sheets," Sareet Majumdar 

"The computer listings they have 
posted are really hard to read," Anne 
Wilson said. "The print is so small-
and they're all jammed together." 

Another senior said it was difficult to 
figure out when and where all the 
) 
various information meetings are held. 

"I tried to go to a meeting with some 
company the other day, and I ended up 
wandering into all these janitor closets 
and empty storerooms in the basement 
ofUCS. I said, 'Right, they're really go-
ing to hire me if I can't even find a sim-
ple room.' 

"It turned out that the meeting had 
been canceled, and that it was the 
wrong company in the first place." 

Most of the approximately 170 com-
panies that recruit at UCS are banks 
and other financial organizations, and 
this dismays some seniors- those whose 
college careers have leaned heavily 
toward 18th-century English poetry 
classes, for example. 

"I just read an article about how 
materialistic college students are," said 
Lauren Bober, who was thumbing 
through a book on employment in the 
media in the UCS library one after-
noon. "But you can see why, if all the 
opportunities for interviewing are with 
investment banks." 

Bob Broeksmit, who was about to 
turn in his resume to several companies 
recruiting through UCS, compared a 
banking career to the history major: 
"It's easiest to get herded that way," he 
said. "I sort of figured I'd be put into the 
investment banking frame of mind by 
now. 

"But," he went on, "a lot of skills you 
learn at Yale overlap. If you can figure 
out what Milton meant in a passage, 
you can figure out what Texaco meant 
in their annual report." 

Broeksmit said he had always been 
interested in business and 
money 
management. He is lucky. A lot ofpeo· 
pie have no idea what they're interested 
in and did not know what to do this 
Christmas, when hordes of noisy adults 
appro~ched them with the inevitable 
.question: "So, what are you going to do 
next year?" 

There are many responses to this, in· 
eluding, "That's a good question," and 
"Nothing," but many seniors said they 
... 

--- Page 9 ---

"If you can figure out 
what Milton meant in 
a passage, you can 
figure out what 
Texaco meant in their 
annual report." 

were afraid to reply this way- especially 
if their parents were nearby. 

Parents are get ting worried. 

"My mom keeps wanting me to write 
to all these people and ask them for 
favors, even when I don't like what they 
do," one senior said. 

"I hac;! lunch with a friend of my dad's 
at Mory's the other day," Erik Kulleseia 
said. "'and we chatted about the in-
suran<.<. busi nes~ . ., 

"He said it was a good field to go into, 
because it was full of mediocre people 
and you could rise to the top quickly." 

Thinking about insurance, Kulleseid 
smiled. 

Lily Zimmermann said that after she 
told her mother she was interested in 
advertising, her mother introduced her 
to an advertiser at a cocktail party. 

. "I didn't know what to ask him," Zim-
mermann recalled. "So I leaned over ~nd 
said, 'So, tell me everything about 
advertising.' 

"He said there were plenty of oppor-
tunities for a bright young gal like me. 
'Why,' he said, 'my secretary went to 
Smith, and she got herself a good hus-
band.'" 

Dealing with adults is bad eno·•gh; 
dealing with peers can be worse. They 
won't admit it, but many seniors can't 
~die it when their friends get jobs or 
mterviews before they do. 

"People are definitely feeling around 
to see who got what," said Anne 
Wilson, who had just been asked to in-
terview at several companies. 

A former Daily News editor, when 
told that a colleague had been offered a 
reporting job, said, "Ah, shit." She was 
thrilled, she added, but noted that it 
meant one less job opportunity for her. 

Chris Wilkinson, however, seemed 
P~ud that he had failed to get an inter-
VIew with First 'Boston Bank. "They 
g~ve it to everyone else," he said, grin-
nmg, "except for me. 

"I also got rejected from a scholarship 
that I hadn't applied to. In fact, I'd 
never even heard of it." 

For many seniors, the job hunt started 
on December 14, the deadline for ap-
plying to the first batch of companies 
prescreening for on-campus interviews. 
Prescreening can be thought of as a pro-
cess by which seniors give their resumes 
to companies who then reject them. 

If December 14 had had its own 
slogan, it would have been "pick a job, 
any job." A lot of people waiting in the 
long line outside Room 208, where the 
company folders were kept, did not 
seem to know what they were doing. 

"What's Kidder Peabody?" Allegra 
Bowers 
asked, 
as her companion 
surveyed the crowd and observed, 
"Wow, I know everyone here." 

Some students say they submitted 
resumes to companies they'd never 
heard of, on the theory that it doesn't 
hurt to keep all your options open. 

"I 
wanted to cover the bases," 
Kulleseid said with conviction, explain-
ing why he had given his resume to a 
number of banks, even though nothing 
in his past would indicate a particularly 
strong affinity for banking. He wavered 
when pressed about specifics, like, did 
he really want to be a banker? 

"I'll 
probably end up- I 
don't 
know-these are good starter jobs.'' His 
voice began to fade away. He clutched 
tightly at his stack of resumes. 

The job listing printout, which contains 
over 150 job descriptions and is updated 
every week, is the focal point of the 
UCS front hallway. Often, crowds of 
students jockey for position in that 
hallway, seeking the right job. Many 
are overwhelmed by all the information 
and write nothing down; others say that 
it's hard to get excited about jobs when 
you don't know what their titles mean. 

"There's not a single company here 
that I want to work for," said Elisabeth 
Malkin, who had just read the entire 
list. 

Two men observed that it would be 
kind of.neat to work for the CIA. The 
Agency security check would probably 
take about six months, they decided, 
but it would be worth it. They wrote it 
down. 

"Bloomingdale's?" someone mut-
tered. "'Who the hell wants to work for 
Bloomingdale's?" 

A woman exclaimed: "Oh my god, I 
missed the Lehman Brothers deadline!" 

"Now that I'm here, do I get a job?"· 
asked a senior who had just arrived, ob-
viously for the first time. Everyone 
within earshot giggled. 

Meanwhile, Marjorie Schlaijker hal:i 
found the perfect job. "I'm going to 
apply where there's no competition," 
she said, pointing to her noteboo1t. ·She 
had written down the name of a televi-
sion station in North Pole, Alaska. 
Sarah Lyall, a senior in Davenport, is a 
former news editor cif 1M Yale Daily News. 
The New Joumal!February I, 1985 9 



**Title: Overcoming Alcohol**
**Author: Lei ia Wardwell**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Overcoming Alcohol 
Lei ia Wardwell 
Susan just celebrated an important an-
niversary, marking a year and a half of 
a new life. It is a date she considers 
more important than her birthday, 
because 18 months ago she gave up 
drinking. Susan is an undergraduate at 
Yale, and she is a recovered alcoholic. 
Seven percent of adult Americans 
have a drinking problem. Surveys con-
ducted on college campuses estimate 16 
percent of the 75 percent to 95 percent 
of students who drink are problem 
drinkers or alcoholics. "We can't deter-
mine exactly what the percentage is at 
Yale," said Maureen Flanagan, director 
of Student Medicine at University 
Health Services (UHS), "but I'd guess it 
is similar to the national statistic." If so, 
then about 700 of the almost 5200 
undergraduates at Yale could be prob-
lem drinkers. 

Susan developed a physical addiction 
to alcohol after she began drinking in 
high school, and the disease progressed 
as she continued the pattern at Yale. 
10 The New JournaUFebruary 1, 1985 
After her freshman year she came to 
terms with her illness and sought treat-
ment, 
which 
required eliminating 
alcohol from her life completely. 
"People drink to stand out or to fit 
in," Susan said, explaining the attrac-
tion drinking first had for her. "Also 
there is a standard here- students ap-
plaud and encourage outrageous be-
havior. One night freshman year I got 
drunk and danced on the roof of my 
dorm with a friend. People congratu-
lated me the next day, saying, 'You were 
great last night. • I liked having the 
reputation of working hard on 
weekdays and going wild on weekends." 
She also pointed out that women often 
start drinking because they believe 
alcohol will make them more comfor-
table with men, and if they ever lost 
control of a situation, they could easily 
explain away their guilt and embarrass-
ment. "So many times I've heard 
women talk to each other about their 
dates-one will ask, 'Did you sleep with 
him?'and the other will say, 'Yes, but I 
was drunk.' 
"I also began to get involved in van· 
dalism and adventure," Susan said. 
"Once I stole some things from a library 
, here with a 
friend, and I don't 
remember doing it. The next day I 
returned them with an anonymous let· 
ter of apology. At first I didn't connect 
this kind of thing with drinking, but 
then I began to realize something was 
wrong." 

Heavy drinking at Yale poses a 
serious problem because it so often 
relates to incidents of violence, sexual 
harassment, vandalism and medical 
danger. "The University as a whole suf-
fers the consequences of alcohol abuse," 
Ezra Stiles Master Heinrich von 
Staden said, "because more accidents 
and dangerous situations than most know 
result from it." 

Masters and health officials face a 
challenge in identifying students who 
abuse alcohol habitually. "We don't 
generally find out about the students 
with real problems," Branford Master 
l John Merriman said. "I don't tend to 
~ hear much from the freshman coun· 
~ selors about them." Many chronic 
! drinkers manage to hide their habits 
~ behind success and popularity. "There 
~ is the alcoholic who doesn't think he's 
~ having a problem- he's getting good 
~ grades, he has lots of friends, he's young 
j and healthy- so he's not aware of the 
damage done by the four or five drinks 
he'll have every night," Flanagan said. 
"He has to recognize he's in trouble first 
before he'll come in for help." 

Susan could not keep her drinking 
problem secret for long. Friends and 
roommates caught on and began to talk 
to her, asking her to cut down or find 
help. Usually Susan ignored this ad· 
vice, annoyed when others who "didn't 
understand" tried to teU her what to do. 
"In the end it was my roommate who 
got me to find help," she said. "She was


--- Page 11 ---

"fm glad the person I 
was before is dead, 
but really she's only a 
sip away." 
very hard on me. She told me she was 
disgusted in me and she doubted I could 
ever stop drinking. It was the shock 
technique-quite a change from the ap-
proval or mild concern I was getting 
from everyone else." Susan talked to 
someone at UHS, who sent her to 
Alcoholics Anonymous. U H S has no 
specialist on alcoholism and in such 
cases provides physical examinations, 
medical 
information and 
referrals. 
"Usually, by the time students come 
here they are already in a great deal of 
trouble," Flanagan said. "The number 
we see is not an indicator for the degree 
of alcoholism on campus." 

Susan stopped drinking through the 
AA treatment program. She felt it was 
the best program for alcoholism but 
admitted some students might have 
trouble 
accepting 
its 
format 
and 
philosophy. Those who come from 
sheltered backgrounds may feel reluc-
tant to discuss their personal problems 
with people from all parts of society, she 
said. Frequently alcoholism is all these 
people have in common, and the idea of 
making a deep commitment to this kind 
of group can intimidate students. "AA's 
life philosophy is not always consistent 
with the Yale student's," Susan ex-
plained. "It takes a one-day-at-a-time 
approach, while most students are 
thinking in long-range terms. 
"The great thing about AA is its un-
conditional love. It is a terrific support 
group. I remember the day I got my 
first chip, which some chapters award to 
Participants for every three months and 
then for every year they have been 
sober. I walked up before this huge 
group and received it while everyone 
applauded. I realized I was a good per~ 
son- a strong person- and all these 
people were on my side. AA is the 
reason I haven't had a drink in a year 
and a half." 

While Susan struggled to give up 
drinking, she encountered further dif-
ficulties readjusting to social life at Yale 
without alcohol. "I had some trouble 
with my friends, especially those I used 
to drink with," she said. "I used to have 
a great rapport with one of my suite-
mates freshman year, but not since I 
stopped. It's very hard to realize alcohol 
was all you had in common with some 
of your friends. Some gave me a hard 
time for staying sober, by insulting me 
into drinking again. I praised myself for 
stopping. Friends would say I was mak-
ing it up. 'We had hoped you would be 
comfortable enough with yourself to 
drink again,' they would tell me." Susan 
admitted she didn't go to many parties, 
mostly because all the drunk people 
around disgusted her. "It was hard for 
me to give up this dominant part of 
Yale life. I guess it's not as much 'fun' as 
before, without all the extreme highs 
and lows. I'm. glad the person I was 
before is dead, but really she's only a sip 
away." 

Susan is grateful for her Yale ex-
perience, despite the trouble she had 
with its emphasis on alcohol. "The 
drinking environment is intense at 
Yale," Susan said, "and it gave me a 
chance to drink hard and fast at a low 
price. I'm glad I'm here, though, be-
cause I got the chance to discover, and 
then overcome, alcoholism at an early 
age." 

Susan 
is 
fortunate 
because she 
stopped a process which might have 
ruined her life later on. She may have 
her experience at Yale to thank. If the 
social environment 
here 
overem-
pi-..-:-;izes liquor and leads to alcohol 
abuse, it also often forces students to 
learn the hard way about the dangers of 
heavy drinking. Perhaps such a learn-
ing process is necessary within a society 
that 
features 
alcohol 
almost 
everywhere, but it is not successful and 
beneficial for everyone. "Drinking at 
Yale can be a useful experience for 
students who learn quickly and 
painlessly," von Staden said, "but for 
those who don't, it can be one of the 
most dangerous and destructive be-
cause it may lead to habits which can 
destroy their magnificent potential. Not 
everyone learns successfully how to 
drink moderately." 


**Title:  Unnamed Article**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

Each year von Staden holds panel 
discussions for Stiles students with Yale 
alumni from the class of'53. Usually the 
panels provide advice and information 
about professional careers. Last fall, the 
three guests talked about their ex-
periences with alcoholism. All three 
were alcoholics themselves and over-
came the illness only after it had severely 
damaged their careers and families. 
"Two of the three attributed the start of 
their drinking habits to their experience 
The New J ournal/February I , 1985 I 1 


--- Page 12 ---

**Title: f'l got the chance to discover, and then overcome, alcoholism at an early age."**
**Author: Julio. Wardwell**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
f'l got the chance to 
discover, and then 
overcome, alcoholism 
at an early age." 
wards, and the group's support and 
warmth greatly impressed me. I kept 
running into people from that first 
meeting, and I was amazed how friend-
ly and caring they were to me. In the 
end, though I decided I had enough 
faith in myself to do it alone. 
"I had some trouble with my friends 
at first," Paul said, "especially those who 
may have felt threatened by my deci-
sion. I feel much better about my 
friendships now, without all the guilt 
and uncertainty I felt while I was drink-
ing." Paul avoids parties for many of the 
same reasons Susan does. 
"I get 
especially annoyed 
when 
there 
is 
nothing to drink but alcohol," he said. 
The prevalence of alcohol in Yale's 
social life is something Paul and Susan 
will always encounter. Most likely they 
won't go to many Feb Club parties this 
month, and they won't participate in 
many Yale traditions which supposedly 
make college fun . These traditions have 
probably led to destructive habits for 
some students, though at first the drink-
ing rituals on singing group tap night, 
the cups at Mory's and the qua.ners 
games at any local bar seem only festive 
and harmless. 
Such traditions will persist regard-
less of official policies and frequent 
changes in the drinking age, and 
alcoholism will continue to be a prob-
lem among Yale students. "We don't 
understand exactly how alcoholism 
develops- whether it's genetic or en-
vironmental- but it 
not the 
alcoholic's fault," Flanagan said. "He 
has to take the responsibility, though, to 
recover by stopping, just as we all have 
to take the responsibility to learn about 
the dangers of alcohol abuse early on. 
Alcoholism touches everyone's life here, 
and there is no one perfect solution." 
• 
ulio. Wardwell, a senior in Calhoun, is afr~­
quent contn.butor to TNJ. 
Susan and Paul ar~ ps~whmyms.


**Title: Within Two Worlds**
**Author: Tamar Lehrich**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

The Yad, a carved wooden pointer , is u sed for reading the Torah, a scroll of the five books of Moses. 
Within Two Worlds 
Tamar Lehrich 
T he block letters engraved on the out-
side of the Georgian-style brick building 
proclaim from the Book of John, "I am 
the way, the truth, and the life." Above 
the archway hangs the message, "Come 
Unto Me," from the Book of Matthew. 
These quotes from the New Testament 
are the sole reminders of the period 
when the building served as the New 
Haven soup kitchen. This unimposing 
structure at 305 r.rown Street now 
holds the Young Israel House at Yale, 
more commonly known as the Kosher 
Kitchen. 
Once inside, walk down a flight of 
stairs, open the heavy door to your left, 
and you'll find the Kitchen itself. The 
walls are a drab off-white and the 
carpeting is faded and worn. Thin cur-
tains do not completely hide the iron 
bars covering every window. With thick 
poles and painted pipes, the room 
seems like an average family basement. 
On the walls hang posters of Israel as 
well as charts which explain various 
religious rituals. At each of the ten long 
tables is a vase of flowers on a white 
tablecloth. As people sit down to eat, 
they immediately introduce themselves, 
and for the visitor, the feeling of being a 
stranger soon disappears. 

In many ways Orthodox J udaism at 
Yale centers around the Kosher Kit-
chen. Founded 25 years ago by a group 
of Yale laY( students, this student-run 
cooperative now has 35 members. 
Through the Kitchen and the sense of 
community it creates, a life of tradi-
tional J ewish observance can be main-
tained. Students choosing this lifestyle 
have joined the growing number of 
American Orthodox Jews. 
Many Yale students are unaware of 
the Orthodox community's very ex-
istence here, not to mention the Or-
thodox way of life. For most students 
Saturdays may mean waking at noon, 
watching TV or studying in CCL. Yet 
for the Orthodox, the Sabbath, called 
both Shabbat (Hebrew) and Shabbos (Yid-
dish), is dramatically different. Begin-
ning late Friday afternoon, the next 24 
hours include religious services and 
prayer, meals at the Kitchen, topical 
forums at Rabbi Jim Ponet's home and 
informal gatherings in students' rooms. 
No one works or travels on Shabbat. No 
one turns on lights or stereos. Orthodox 
Jews carry nothing- not knapsacks, 
books, keys or wallets. T hey use no 
money. They neither read nor write. 
Even the phone goes unanswered. 
There are eleven days a year in which 
basically identical observance takes 
place. If these holy days fall consecutive 
to Shabbat, an observant j ew will not on-
ly miss classes for three days but will be 
unable to do any academic work. 
Even during the week observance re-
quires sacrifice. To remain kosher while 
eating dinner at Commons, one can 
only have a salad, a cold sandwich or a 
piece of fruit. Most Orthodox won't eat 
cooked or heated foods prepared in a 
non-kosher kitchen with non-kosher 
utensils. Three times a day one prays. 
Some men wear ritual prayer garb, 
which includes tqillin, a network of 
small leather straps and boxes contain-
ing Biblical parchment which affirms 
the unity of God, and zizit, a fringed 
vest which is the reminder of the Com· 
mandments and the presence of God. 
During prayer the yarmulke is also worn, 
a traditional way of showing respect. 
Men who wear a yarmulke at all times 
consider themselves always in the 
presence of God. 
Many observant Jews never stop feel-
ing estranged from the college com-
munity as a whole. Feelings of isolation, 
insularity and detachment exist among 
the Orthodox here. While determined 
to make their orthodoxy uncompromis-
ing, 
some feel 
deeply 
ambivalent 
about taking on the double life Yale im-
poses. They are students struggling to 
balance 
the 
secular 
present with 
religious tradition, trying to collapse the 
boundaries of these two worlds. 
During freshman year Yonina Hel-
man, JE '87, found most social activities 
were organized on Shabbat. "I thought 
everyone else was becoming 'a real 
Yalie' while I remained on the outside," 
she explained. "I didn't want to admit to 
myself that I was different. Finally I just 
decided I could never erase whatever 
made me different. I know rd never be 
the kind of person people read about in 
the Daily News. • Helman, whose father 
is an ordained rabbi, has been Or-
thodox since birth. She lived in both 
Israel and Egypt, attended Orthodox 
day schools and deferred Yale for a year 
to attend Jerusalem College 
for 
Women. 
Like many observant J ews, H elman 
never had to question the relevance of 
her observancy before coming to Yale. 
The daily ritual and routine so foreign 
to other Yale students were an inherent 
part of her life. Helman never had a 
non-Jewish friend, and once at Yale she 
did not think any9ne outside the Kosher 
Kitchen knew she existed. "I think a lot 
of people here are against any kind of 
religious observance," Helman said 
frankly. "I felt I was on the defensive, 
guilcy for not answering the phone or 
turning ofT the lights on SIUJbbos. I felt 
uncomfortable going to Commons or to 
any place that didn't have kosher food, 
even getting a soda at Naples. During 
the holidays in September when most 
people were getting up to go to class, I 
was getting dressed up to go to religious 
services. I felt very alienated and 
alone." 
Now very active in Hillel and treas-
urer of the Kitchen, Helman feels she is 
"Finally I just decided I 
could never erase 
whatever made me 
different."



**Title: Yale's Orthodox Jews**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Now we pray in base-
ments. To be visible 
would help all J ews at 
Yale." 
moving toward a balance at Yale. "I told 
my roommate, 'Please introduct> me to 
your friends.' I want to feel part of Yale. 
People form groups so quickly that it's 
hard to break in- I was afraid," she ex-
plained, looking down at her clenched 
hands. "I want to become involved in 
non-Jewish activities too, but I don't 
want to feel that what I'm doing now 
isn't valid or doesn't count." 
David Henkin, BR '87, is perhaps 
the best example of an Orthodox Jew 
who is what Ponet calls "committed to 
living in two worlds and able to reach 
beyond himself." Henkin, the grandson 
of a rabbi and the son of a Columbia 
professor, grew up on Manhattan's Up-
per West Side. On Friday nights he 
moves with ease between a gathering of 
observant J ewish students and an en-
tryway party, stopping only to place his 
Rabbi James Ponet in his office. 
16 The New Journal/February 1. 1985 
Yarmulke casually in his pocket before 
beginning to dance. 

While most observant Jews stringent-
ly try to follow the 613 Biblical com-
mandments (known as mitzvot) intended 
to guide them through life, Henkin's 
brand of Orthodoxy stands apart from 
most. H e feels maintenance of an obser-
vant lifestyle is not entirely dependent 
on a belief in God. "I'm not sure I have 
that belief," he said without hesitation. 
"I'm not quite sure of the reasons for my 
observance. When you're brought up to 
believe in God, even when you can't say 
'I think there is a God,' you find 
yourself proceeding with •the assump-
tion that there is." 

While most of Henkin's closest 
friends are not observantJews, Kitchen 
members usually share overlapping 
social groups. In fact many members 
joined the 
Kitchen 
first 
semester 
freshman year, choosing rarely to ex-
perience the pandemonium of Com-
mons or a residential college dining 
hall. The Orthodox way of life here 
creates the need to draw together, to 
form a secure, interdependent com-
munity. But this structured lifestyle also 
gives rise to a feeling of separatism, 
creating a sense of insularity within the 
community. "The Kitchen keeps people 
10ut and it keeps people in. It provides 
for those who are doing real, kosher 
Judaism," said Henkin. "It's the Young 
Israel House and that strangeness keeps 
people away. Students go there and use 
it either as a crutch or as an asylum 
from dealing with Yale. Yale is not 
always easy to deal with, particularly 
for people from homogeneous back-
grounds." 

Mimi Hasson, TC '85, regrets join-
ing the Kitchen early freshman year. 
When she applied to Yale from an Or-
thodox high school in Chicago, her 
teachers told her to go to Barnard or 
Harvard, since Yale had "absolutely no 
observant community." "I was very 
afraid of the Commons' atmosphere 
when I arrived," she explained, embar-
rassed by her statement. "But eventual-
ly the fear went away and I became 
more involved in Yale." For the first 
time in her life, Hasson was exposed to 
flexible branches of Judaism which ac-
cept liturgical and ritual changes. She 
now considers herself no longer an Or-
thodox but a Conservative J ew. She 
plans to obtain a University dining hall 
contract, with the option of eating at the 
Kitchen only twice a week. This is not 
easy for Hasson to admit, because 
deciding to leave the Kitchen can be li~e 
abandoning one's own family. Hes•-
tating, she explained, "My perception 
of the world has been altered. I've 
discovered a lot I didn't know existed." 

For Atara Siegman, SY '85, the 
Kosher Kitchen became and remains a 
home. Comfortable with her Judaism, 
her belief in God and her commitment 
to Orthodoxy, A tara is warm and ap-
proachable. "I know people who have 
great friends in their colleges but don't 
feel a sense of community," she said,


--- Page 17 ---

pushing her curly brown hair away 
from her eyes. Suddenly she smiled. "At 
the Kitchen people really care, "'•hich 
matters at Yale where religion becomes 
a very private, internal expression. 
What I do isn't ancient custom or just 
historical commemoration. 
It has 
relevance in the modern world. I'm part 
of a tradition that has meaning for me 
too." 

For women who are observant Jews, 
however, living in a world enlightened 
by modern feminism may present con-
flicts. Among other restrictions, women 
are barred from the rabbinate, not 
counted in a minyan (a group of ten) for 
prayer and not called to read the Torah 
in the syna~ogue. "V\'omen and men are 
just seen as intrinsically different," 
Siegman suggested, "but that doesn't 
mean they must exist in two separate 
worlds. I believe I can maintain my self-
respect as an observant jewish woman." 

M any O rthodox find needed support 
from religious students of other faiths. 
Throughout. her four 
years 
in 
Saybrook, Siegman has lived with 
similarly religious women, includmg a 
devout Catholic. "It'!> comforting to 
know there's someone else in the 
Uni"ersity with related morals, ethics 
and values, who doesn't hold to the 
secular world totally," Siegman said. 

Andy Weinstein, DC '86, is perhaps 
one of the Kitchen's most unusual 
members. Although he would not 
hesitate to agree today with Siegman's 
enthusiasm for Orthodox practice, a 
year ago he might have argued. Once a 
non-religious Jew, he has now made the 
transition to Orthodoxy. Weinstein 
grew up in a non-observant family but 
one in which he always felt a strong 
Jewish awareness. "I had no conception 
of Orthodox Judaism," Weinstein 
remembered. "I thought it was obscure, 
a dying, irrelevant lifestyle. I always 
cared I was a Jew, though, and was 
aware I would defend my Judaism." 

Freshman year Weinstein had no in-
tention of exploring Yale's J ewish com-
munity. 
Uninterested 
H illel, 
unaware of the existence of the Kosher 
Kitchen, he had what he called "a 
distaste for Jewish socializing." As a 
sophomore W einstein took Anthony 
Appiah's 
philosophy 
course, 
"Language, Mind and World" and 
began to explore what was for him a 
new realm of thought. "We read Wit-
tgenstein, who is concerned with curing 
people from philosophy; he cured me in


**Title: Yale's Jews**
**Author: TamaT Lehrich**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Hillel offices are literally located in 
basements, most of Yale's Jews also 
maintain a very low profile. 

T here has not always been a signifi-
cant Orthodox population at Yale. Ac-
cording to Hillel's Ponet, as recently as 
1962 a Jewish admissions quota of ten 
percent maximum still existed here. Yet 
since the mid-sixties, there has been a 
consistent increase in the Yale J ewish 
population, with the Orthodox com-
munity also growing in strength and 
numbers. Ponet, who as far as he knows 
is the first Yale graduate to become a 
rabbi, remembered, "Across the nation, 
there was a feeling of normality in being 
a J ew. But when I was a student here, 
some anti-Semitism still existed. Yale 
was a place somewhat new to jews, and 
we grew to think being jewish was pret-
ty weird." He paused to answer the 
phone, speaking to the caller in H ebrew 
while jotting down a note in English. 
M inutes later he finished his thought, 
undaunted by the interruption. "Today, 
although 30 percent of Yale students are 
J ews, we're not Yale in some deep way." 

Three fundamental changes have oc-
curred during the last decade enabling 
the Orthodox jew to attend Yale: a bla-
tant anti-Semitic atmosphere no longer 
prevails; an increased number of O r-
thodox Americans can afford a Yale 
education; and the possibility of obtain-
ing kosher food has become a reality. 

M oreover, Ponet commented, "There's 
a new attitude toward pluralism in this 
country. Ethnic identities are 'in.' Yale 
has been forced to deal with its well-
deserved image as an anti-Semitic 
school with a gentile attitude." 

D avid Ruderman, DUS of Judaic 
Studies, hopes that the growth of his 
program will ameliorate past problems. 
As part of the new $7.4 million develop-
ment 
campaign, 
four 
new Judaic 
Stud ies professorships were initiated 
this year, as well as two new chairs in 
Hebrew Language and Literature and 
in M odern J ewish 
H istory. "Until 
several years ago Yale was delinquent in 
getting involved," 
R uderman said. 
"Yale is not a white, Protestant school 
any longer. T here are Jews who are in-
terested in their own heritage." 

"What I do isn't an-
cient custom or just 
historical com-
memoration. It has 
relevance in the 
modem world." 

Attempting to counter further the 
"basement mentality," Rabbi Ponet has 
begun a $5 m illion development pro-
gram for building what he calls a 
"Center for Jewish Life at Yale," to be 
located at 35 High Street. The complex 
will include a kosher dining hall, a 
synagogue, offices for both Hillel a nd 
affiliate organizations and the R abbi's 
home. 

Reactions to the proposal for a jewish 
Center have been generally supportive, 
though not without some reservations. 
Some older alumni maintain fears of 
separatism. "Jews were excluded from 
the Yale community long enough. 
Don't recreate the ghetto and take us 
out of the mainstream," one alumnus 
said. Students express concern that the 
Center will not establish new social con-
texts for K itchen members who feel 
alienated. Some students believe that 
Hillel and the Kitchen should remain 
separate, clearly defined structures. 
Others fear that the building will re-
main empty and unused. Many hope, 
however, that a new complex will be 
more palatable to Yale Jews than the 
Kitchen is now. "It will seem less of an 
enclave of fanatics and more like a 
Jewish cultural center," H enkin said. "It 
doesn't have to be an intimidating Or-
thodox bastion," Weinstein said in 
regard to the Center. "Now we dovm 
(pray) in basements. To be visible 
would help all Jews at Yale." 

Weinstein intends to wear a y armulkL 
on campus this semester. When asked if 
he feels he's missing the "real Yale ex-
perience" as an Orthodox Jew, he just 
laughed and said, "People put too much 
stock in modern everything. I don't 
think the most important things have 
changed so much ." H e paused. "It's im-
portant to confront people with their 
own backgrounds. It's too easy to slip 
through the cracks here . . . I don't 
want to make it easy for anyone to 
forget he's a j ew." Surrounded by thick 
poles and painted pipes, Weinstein 
placed his prayerbook aside before 
beginning to eat. 

• 
TamaT Lehrich, a sophomor~ in Morst, is on 
~ 
staff tif TN] . 


**Title: Learning to Live with Death**
**Author: Joyce Banerjee**
**Page number(s): 20**

"When anyone dies 
here, everything hap-
pens very quietly. 
Once the woman in 
the bed next to me 
died and I didn't even 
know it. They don't 
want to excite you." 

Down the hall in the first common 
room, a man who arrived yesterday sits 
surrounded by his two teenage sons, his 
wife and his brother. Perhaps 45 years 
old, he has lost most of his black hair to 
radiation therapy, the crown of his head 
now covered with a fine fuzz. His pa-
jamas look too big for his thin body and 
his beard lends the only fullness to 
his gaunt, olive-colored face. He and 
his family all sit without speaking, his 
son changing the television channel now 
and then. 

Next door in the Commons, the 
largest of three triangular, den-like 
rooms, Rosemary Huerzeler, Connec-
ticut Hospice's Chief Executive Officer, 
watches a volunteer wheel a very old 
woman through the room. Black and 
frail, the patient absently waves her lean 
hand and excuses herself by saying, 
"Evenin'. Just passin' through." 

"Let me make something clear: this is 
not a death house," Huerzeler said, as 
the woman left the room. "People don't 
come here simply to die. The quality of 
life in the final stages is so important, 
and we try to make the suffering 
bearable. There comes a time when you 
hook a patient up to all sorts of medical 
equipment, and although it prolongs 
life, it doesn't make life better." 

The first institution of its kind in 
America, Connecticut Hospice pro-
vides palliative treatment to the term-
inally ill, mitigating their pain without 
trying to cure their diseases. In the final 
stages of a fatal illness, most often 
cancer, Hospice patients have left 
behind the numerous operations, the 
' • 
chemotherapy, the radiation treatments 
of hospitals. They have found instead a 
program which gives them power over 
everything from their bath time to their 
medication. Through a unique team-
care approach, the Hospice comforts 
both patient and family through illness 
and eventual death. 

In 
the sixties a 
powerful dis-
satisfaction with traditional handling of 
the 
dying developed among both 
laymen and professionals. "After some 
point treatment is useless, hurtful," said 
Professor of Public 
Health John 
Thompson, a member of the Hospice's 
Board of Directors. "The care should be 
pain relief; they should be allowed to die 
in peace. The dying shouldn't be kept in 
hospitals, pumped up with all those 
damned drugs, because it just can't do 
any good anymore." 

Frustrated with the accepted treat-
ments, former Yale School of Nursing 
Dean Florence Wald, pediatrician Mor-
ris Wessel, oncologist Ira Goldenberg 
and others responded to the British 
hospice movement. In 1971 Wald and 
her colleagues incorporated the non-
profit, non-sectarian Connecticut 
Hospice. Three years later, 
with 
government grants and an eight-person 
staff on Prospect Street, the Hospice 
began to provide home care for the ter-
minally ill. Then, in 1980, with the 
directors ready to offer care beyond the 
city, the Hospice settled in a new, 
44-bed inpatient facility in Branford. 

Even with this building, home care 
remains the Hospice's emphasis. In 
18 communities around 
New 




**Title: The Connecticut Hospice in Branford**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Haven, the home care program serves 
approximately 40 to 50 patients at a 
given time. In both inpatient and home 
care, patients are treated by a care-
giving team consisting of doctors, 
nurses, clergy, a social worker and a 
pharmacologist. The efforts of these dif-
ferent professionals attend to all of a pa-
tient's needs- physical, emotional, 
spiritual, even legal. Hospitals, visiting 
nurse agencies and doctors all refer pa-
tients to the Hospice. The criteria for 
admission into both programs are 
similar: terminal illness, six months or 
less to live (as determined by the refer-
ring physician), consent and aid of the 
physician and of course the consent of 
the patient. 

"With home care, the patient is 
assured someone will always be there. 
They can whistle away at five a.m. and 
someone will come," Huerzeler said. 
"The team from Hospice keeps the 
home life a balanced, well-controlled 
environment, because you don't want to 
wear the family out. 

"Half our patients die at home, but at 
some point, a family just can't handle 
the strain any more. One woman whose 
son died at home last year has been 
haunted by the memory of the hearse 
pulling up to the house ever since. So this 
year when her father was dying, she had 
him in here for the last 16 hours of 
his life. It enabled her to cope." 

Physicians direct patients to the in-
patient facility when their medical 
needs, particularly the management of 
pain, can no longer be met at home. 
Carved from a tract of surburbia, the 
low structure appears to be a cluster of 
greenhouses. 

Every feature of the 
building has a purpose: the glass walls 
in corridors and common rooms let in 
sun and darkness, giving some dis-
oriented patients a sense of time; the 
four-person suites allow patients to 
develop friendships at a difficult time; 
the big color TV s, plants and couches 
make common rooms look like dens. 

The Charlie Mills Preschool, 
operated by the Hospice, shares the first 
floor. 

Originally created 
for 
staff 
children, the day care center is now 
used largely by Branford citizens. 

Allowed to take phonebooks to the pa-
tients every year and do other small er-
rands occasionally, the children be :orne 
aware people around them are sick and 
perhaps dying. Huerzeler believes 
children and patients benefit from this 
exposure. "Someone once said 'Where 
children play it must be safe," she 
said. "When a patient is brought in ly-
ing on a stretcher, the sight of the kids 
inspires a confidence no signs or 
touches can." 

In 1983 the Hospice inpatient facility 
treated 
approximately 400 
patients 
from the greater New Haven area as 
well as from out of state. Although 15 
percent were discharged, most died 
within 
three 
weeks 
of admission. 
Depending upon the stage of the illness, 
patients arrive in different conditions: 
some are alert, others confused and a 
few comatose. Although a team of pro-
fessionals see to their total well-being, 
patients have great authority over their 
remaining weeks. Lillian Nichols, a pa-
tient, explained, "Here, we're the boss. 
They ask you if you want to take a bath, 
you get to visit whomever you want 
around here, you even get to wear your 
own clothes. Since I've been here, I 
have gotten a really nice idea of 
Hospice. Before, my husband was tak-
ing care of me alone. He used to be up 
all hours of the night, which was a 
strain on him because he's diabetic." 

After a long period of illness began 
last September, N ichols' doctor referred 
her to the Hospice a month ago. In and 
out of Yale-New Haven ten times since 
1978, the 83-year-old patient has had 
double mastectomies, a spleen removal 
and blood infections. She sits near her 
bed, dressed in a flannel nightgown 
with a pink and white knitted vest over 
it. Her hands on her lap, she twists her 
gold weddin~ band. 

Before lunch Nichols plans to go to


**Page number(s): 23**

Commons and listen to a Yale Divinity 
student deliver an address commem-
orating Martin Luther King's birthday. 
Differing from a hospital intensive care 
unit·, the Hospice does not confine pa-
tients to their beds day and night. The 
Hospice employs an arts director who 
brings in entertainers or works with pa-
tients individually on crafts. Often pa-
tients sit with their visitors in a common 
room watching television and talking. 

Nichols has improved since arriving 
at the H ospice and hopes to return 
home in a few weeks. Behind her left 
shoulder, a woman lies asleep in a par-
tially raised bed, her jaw fallen, her 
mouth open. Nichols worries about her 
roommate, the fact that she sleeps all 
day, waking up occasionally to look 
around the room. Nichols realizes her 
suitemate may die soon, yet the thought 
does not frighten her. "When anyone 
dies here, everything happens very 
quietly. Once the woman in the bed 
next to me died and I didn't even know 
it. They don't want to excite you," she 
said. "There are no machines to keep 
you alive, nothing false, just natural." 

Although most hospitals focus only 
on the patient during treatment, the 
Connecticut Hospice believes the families 
of the terminally ill need great support, 
particularly near the end. Families may 
visit any time and aJI members, even 
small children and pets, are welcome. 
"In the building are several rooms called 
'nooks and crannies,' which have sofas, 
cribs and televisions. When relatives 
visit from far or the family wants to 
spend the night with a patient near 
death, they can use these rooms," said 
Gloria Mangual, Assistant Public Infor-
mation Director. Family can use the 
kitchens in the common rooms to 
prepare a favorite dish, or the laundry 
room in the basement for wash. Most 
important, the caregiving teams at the 
Hospice keep in close contact with the 
families of the patients. Doctors and 
nurses not only give health reports, but 
provide emotional support as well. 

When a patient dies, the family can 
spend time alone with the deceased 
before the hearse arrives. Often the 
body is taken to the second floor view-
ing room, which is actually two. long 
joined rooms, one dimly lit with a couch 
and table and the other with the patient's 
bed. The room shows the Hospice's 
concern for the smallest details in help-
ing people face death. Placed diagonally 
across from the door of the sitting room, 
the bed stands at the greatest distance from 
anyone who enters the actual viewing 
room. The space gives the survivor 
time to approach, to realize his relative 
has just died. 

To help families cope after death, the 
Hospice maintains a 
bereavement 
counselling service. Consisting of a 
volunteer team and a professional co-
ordinator, the service saw half the 
families linked to both inpatient and 
home care in 1983. The counselors 
decide which families need face-to-face 
attention based on considerations such 
as children, the health of the spouse or 
the possibility of alcoholism developing 
in the family. A volunteer visits the sur-
vivors and periodically sends letters ex-
plaining they have someone who will 
listen to their recollections and help 
them with new problems. On Memorial 
Day and a Christmas weekend, the 
Hospice invites the families of the past 
year's deceased 
a 
meal and 
memorial service in Branford. The 
Hospice provides counselling as long as 
the family wishes, although after six 
months most have learned to go on with 
their lives. 

Nurse Kathy De Almo, evening shift 
supervisor, enters the Commons and 
~its near Huerzeler. After working five 
years in hospitals, DeAlmo realized she 
wanted to practice the ideals of nursing 
which she learned in school. She wanted 
to care for only a few patients and felt 
the need to include the family in all 
aspects of care. The Hospice nursing 
system is based on the Intensive Care 
Unit method, with three nursing shifts 
covering 24 hours and very high nurse-
patient ratios. For every Licensed Prac-
tical Nurse there are three patients, and 
for each Registered Nurse who runs the 
nursing teams for patients there are 
five. 

Because of these high ratios, nurses 
often grow close to their patients. Yet 


**Title: The Hospice: A Place of Life**
**Author: Joyce Boner**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
professional failure. Nonetheless, others 
still have difficulty with several aspects 
of hospice care, particularly drug treat-
ment. At the Hospice, 40 percent of the 
patients enter experiencing terrible 
pain, but once there they are medicated 
around the clock, remaining alert but 
never feeling the onset of pain. Some 
medical professionals fear this method 
could lead to drug addiction, but 
Huerzeler denies it. "No one can get ad-
dicted because, frankly, the patients 
don't have enough time to. When we 
take them off a medication, we never 
see withdrawal signs," she said. "There 
is a real difference between taking drugs 
to feel comfortable and taking them to 
blot out the world." 

According to Mangual, hospice pro-
grams are opening at a rate of one a 
week across the country. Currently, 
1,100 
hospice programs exist 
in 
America, although most, unlike the 
Connecticut Hospice, are either entire-
ly home care programs or sections of 
hospitals. Yet the Hospice in Branford 
has been instrumental in the creation of 
many of these programs, not only 
because it serves as a model for the 
others, but for its teaching institute, 
which operates every spring. Con-
ducted by doctors, nurses and other 
Hospice staffers, the institute helps 
organizations develop their own hospice 
programs. 

Perhaps hospice care has become so 
successful because it is far less expensive 
than hospital treatment. Palliative care 
settings have no use for all the medical 
machinery which keep the comatose 
alive, and so the cost of care for the pa-
tient remains relatively low. Yet after 
the insurance and Medicare payments, 
the Hospice still does not break even, 
relying heavily on philanthropy for sur-
vival. New federal regulations may 
slow the growth· of the hospice move-
ment. The laws cut the daily payment 
hospices receive for the care of their ill 
and force patients to give up future 
curative treatment upon entering a 
palliative program. When the laws were 
enacted in 1983, it was clear the 
Hospice couldn't operate under them, 
but it quickly and luckily received a 
"After some point 
treatment is useless, 
hurtful. The care 
should be pain relief." 
waiver from the regulations by being 
declared the national demonstration 
hospice. 

Despite occasional setbacks, Huer-
zeler and others feel palliation will 
grow, reaching beyond the treatment of 
cancer patients to other illnesses and 
areas of health care. Recently, the Con-
necticut Hospice faced the difficult deci-
sion of admitting AIDS victims to its in-
patient facility. The Board of Directors 
agreed to admit AIDS patients provid-
ed they met the regular admission 
criteria. Although the Hospice later 
received two referrals, one patient 
changed his mind and the other still has 
more than six months to live. 

Other hospices, such as the one at 
San Francisco General Hospital, do ad-
mit AIDS patients on a regular basis. 
The Connecticut Hospice continues. 
however, to prepare 
its facility to 
treat AIDS sufferers. "The difficulty is 
that it is a communicable illness," 
Hurzeler said. "We have to take certain 
precautions to contain it, precautions 
which aren't in place yet. It has to be 
safe for both the patient and the rest 
of the Hospice." 

As debates over patient rights grow 
more heated, the terminally ill around 
New Haven continue to join the Hos-
pice program. Despite the controversies 
in legislatures and medical schools, the 
men and women of the Hospice focus 
their attention on the last weeks of their 
patients' lives. Free of respirators and 
life-support machines, the Hospice of-
fers only comfort to those who cannot 
be cured. 

Everyone entering the Connecticut 
Hospice passes by a gold-lettered in-
scription on the wall. 
Written by 
Reverend Ed Dobihal, one of the 
founders, the few sentences remind 
visitors they have arrived in a place of 
life: 

• 
For all gifts and gittrs 
For hope and for caring 
For now and foreur 
Thonks bt to all. 
Joyce Boner;«, a junior in TD, is Associau 
Editor ofTNJ. 


**Title: Seeking Certainty**
**Author: Michael Freitag**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

The article was hidden deep inside The 
New York Times' metropolitan section; it 
was the kind of story you probably 
wouldn't even notice unless you were 
looking for it. But John Todd noticed it 
-he had been looking for such an arti-
cle for several months. 

"Body 
Found 
In 
Suitcase 
Hudson," the headline read. On July 
22, 1984, a woman fishing in the Hud-
son River near the George Washington 
Bridge hooked onto something very 
heavy. With some help from a fellow 
fisherman she reeled in the object, 
which turned out to be a large suitcase. 
Inside were the decomposed remains of 
a young man. He was dressed in a 
sweatshirt, jeans and running shoes. 

From the description of the Hudson 
victim, John suspected that he had 
finally found his 25-year-old brother 
Sam, a Yale Divinity School (YDS) stu-
dent who had disappeared in New York 
City on January 1, 1984. Sam had 
vanished in Greenwich Village, just a 
few blocks from the Hudson River. 

John knew that if Sam had been 
murdered, his body might eventually 
resurface in the Hudson. 

John soon learned, however, that the 
Hudson victim wasn't Sam. The body 
was identified by the police as another 
of the thousands of people reported 
missing in New York City every year. 
For John the sighting was just one more 
false lead in the search for his brother. 

"We really know nothing more than we 
did the first day Sam disappeared," 
26 The New Journal/February 1, 1985 
John said with a sigh. "None of the 
many possible sightings we have had 
were substantial enough so that we 
could say that they were conclusive 
evidence that Sam is out there and 
alive." 

It has been more than a year since 
Sam Todd disappeared after leaving a 
New Year's party at a friend's apart-
ment on Mulberry Street. Sam had told 
his younger brother Adam that he need-
ed to get some fresh air to sober up. 
Dressed only in a sweatshirt and jeans, 
having left his coat and wallet in the 
apartment, Sam began to jog up 
Mulberry towards Houston Street. 

About two hours later when Sam 
still had not returned, Adam began to 
look for his brother. The following day 
the Todd family, assisted by scores of 
friends and detectives from the New 
York City Police Department, mounted 
an extensive search for Sam. Nearly 
200 volunteers, many of them from 
YDS, scoured the streets of New York. 
They distributed thousands of posters of 
Sam and searched all of the city's 
hospitals, soup kitchens and shelters. 

The local media quickly caught wind of 
the search and devoted substantial 
coverage to the effort. By March, with 
Sam still missing and no solid leads, the 
Todd family extended their search na-
tionally. They sent letters and posters 
describing Sam to hospitals, churches 
and community groups throughout the 
country. But now, after 13 months of 
fruitless searching, Sam's whereabouts 
remain an absolute mystery. Many 
theories have been proposed which 
might explain his disappearance, in-
cluding a complex hypothesis offered by 
a YDS graduate, but none have proved 
correct so far. 

This uncertainty, the continued lack 
of substantial evidence regarding Sam's 
status, frustrates all who are involved in 
the search. Detective Sergeant Marcia 
Stanton of the New York Police's 
Bureau of Missing Persons has des-
cribed the Todd case as one of the most 
interesting and baffling of her career. 
"We don't know where he is, or even if 
he is alive or dead," she said. "What 
makes it so difficult to grasp for anyone 
involved is that the mind seeks certain-
ty." 

John Todd, a 30-year-old law clerk, 
has been emotionally consumed by the 
search for his brother. "I spent the first 
three months just getting up every day 
and banging my head against the wall. 
There's an immense frustration that 
goes with that type of intensity because 
you think that by putting out so much 
energy you'll get some return for it. But 
in this case, there's none. Absolutely 
nothing. 

"The other thing that drains you is 
the emotional rollercoaster you get on 
when somebody calls and says they 
think they've seen Sam. When that hap-
pens now, a sense of fatigue over-
whelms me. I keep telling myself that 
it's nothing. But you have to do 
everything in your power to try to 


**Title: CLERGY STUDENT SOUGHT BY FAMILY**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 27**

CLERGY STUDENT SOUGHT BY FAMILY 
SAM TODD 
AGE: 24, 5'11", SLIM, 135 lbs., LIGHT BROWN HAIR, BLUE EYES, 
DARK FRAMED GLASSES. 
MAY HAVE LOST MEMORY 
DISAPPEARED JANUARY 1, 1984 IN NEW YORK CITY 
A flier distributed in the area where Sam Todd disappeared. 

determine at least that the sighted per-
son was not Sam. You're almost guar-
anteed to be frustrated in trying to 
determine even that," John said. 

The police have offered three possible 
scenarios 
to explain 
Sam's disap-
pearance. He may have suffered some 
form of amnesia or mental impairment 
which kept him from contacting his 
family. John 
considers this theory 
unlikely. "We've learned from doctors 
and other experts familiar with amnesia 
that people in that condition tend to 
know something is wrong and tend to 
search out help. If Sam had done some-
thing like that, chances are that we 
would have heard about it," he said. 

"Even if Sam were in a more severe 
mentally disheveled state, something 
more like a down and out street person, 
we've done a lot to try to tap into any 
network that deals with such people," 
John added. 

The possibility that Sam is dead- the 
victim of an accident or violence - can-
not be eliminated entirely. But that 
scenario also seems unlikely, John said. 
"The police tell us that if Sam was dead 
there is a very good chance we would 
have heard about it by now; a body 
would have turned up one way or 
another in a short time. Though you 
can never rule that out, it becomes less 
likely with each passing day." 

Ironically, 
the Todd family has 
gained hope from such tragic incidents 
as the discovery of the body in the Hud-
son River. Said John, "There's been a 
grim comfort in stories like that because 
of the undeniable possibility that Sam's 
body would turn up in the Hudson once 
the spring thaw arrived. We were all 
kind of waiting with bated breath to see 
what would happen. But now that's all 
gone by. So then you're left talking 
about much more bizarre and im-
probable circumstances which would 
have resulted in his body just disappear-
ing." 

The police feel that if Sam is neither 
dead nor suffering from amnesia, the 
only remaining explanation is that he 
voluntarily ran away and is now hiding 
somewhere. Sam's family considers this 
the most appealing scenario because, in 
John's words, "It implies that Sam is 
alive and well and able to take care of 



**Title: The Disappearance of Sam Todd**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Adam and John Todd at search headquarters in New York City. 
28 The New J ou rnaVF ebruary I , 1985 
himself. If his disappearance was 
deliberate, then Sam can make the 
willful decision to return." 

Unfortunately, scant evidence sup-
ports this theory. Friends and teachers 
describe Sam as quiet and stable, not 
someone who would run away on a 
whim. A social activist particularly con-
cerned with the problems of the home-
lesS',• Sam loved his family deeply-too 
deeply to cause them such distress, 
friends say. 

But what if Sam had some secret 
motive for running away? Both the 
Todds and the police have investigated 
this possibility. "I've begun to think of 
this as two different searches," John 
said. "The first, of course, is for Sam 
physically. The other search is for Sam 
mentally. Now we must say we don't 
know this person, because the Sam we 
knew wouldn't disappear." 

The Todd family and the police are 
not the only people who have tried to 
reconstruct Sam's frame of mind at the 
time of his disappearance. Paul Keane, 
YDS '80, recently put together a 
30-page report assessing Sam's emo-
tional condition on that New Year's 
Eve. Keane, a New Haven resident, 
wrote his report as an "unsolicited, 
unauthorized and unacknowledged 
minister to Yale University." According 
to Keane, "The Sam Todd disap-
pearance was a case in which I saw my 
alma mater 
suffering 
from many 
unanswered questions. I saw nobody 
offering any solutions, so I tried to pro-
vide some answers." 

Keane's paper,. entitled "Fugitive 
From God, Country and Yale?: The 
Disappearance of Sam Todd," is based 
on interviews with 40 people, including 
many of Sam's classmates and pro-
fessors at the Divinity School. Other 
than Doris Todd, Sam's aunt, Keane 
did not interview any members of the 
Todd family for reasons of privacy. 

Keane suggested that a combination 
of financial , 
academic, 
social and 
theological pressures impelled Sam to 
run away. "My hunch is that a lot of 
stress accumulated to the point of in-
tolerability in Sam's mind. At the party


"The police tell us that 
if Sam was dead there 
is a very good chance 
we would have heard 
about it by now." 

it got to the point where he just said, 'I 
can't take it any more,' and ran away. 
What happened to him after that, I 
don't know." 

In the report Keane noted that Sam 
was in a difficult financial bind during 
the previous semester. Sam, who re-
ceived little financial support from his 
parents, had to borrow money from his 
aunt to pay his fall tuition. Keane also 
described a meeting in which Sam was 
asked by his landlords to be more timely 
in paying his share of the bills. 

Sam was under intense academic 
pressure at the time of his disap-
pearance, Keane added. According to a 
recent tightening of Divinity School 
regulations, a student could receive a 
failing grade in a course for not com-
pleting work on time. Described by his 
professors as a fair student, Sam may 
have left for Christmas vacation believ-
ing that he had failed two classes. Sam 
might not have been able to complete 
his requirements for graduation in his 
final semester at the Divinity School. 

Moreover, Sam was experiencing 
some social problems during the holi-
day break. Keane quoted Sam's Divini-
ty School classmate Shep Parsons as 
saying that Sam had decided to break 
up with his long-time girlfriend, but 
was having a difficult · time of it. 

Dramatically, that girlfriend showed up 
unexpectedly at the Mulberry Street 
Party on New Year's Eve. "Sam was 
blown away because (his girlfriend) was 
there and he didn't expect it ... Sam 
was trying to get out from under her," 
Parsons told Keane. 

Finally, Keane's report suggested 
that Sam may have been experiencing 
an identity crisis caused by a sense of in-
feriority to his father, a prominent Pres-
byterian minister who once held a 
prestigious position with the World 
Council of Chruches. Keane wrote, 
"Sam was not only walking in his 
father's footsteps, but remaining in his 
father's shadow; and the shadow cast 
from a desk on the World Council of 
Churches was a long shadow indeed." 

According to Keane, Sam's identity 
crisis was so severe that he sought out 
the advice of a Divinity School pro-
fessor. The two had a long discussion 
about the difficulties Sam was having 
reconciling self-interests with 
his 
religious beliefs. Sam expressed doubts 
about his desire to continue his social 
activism. 
"By 
thf! 
middle of 
fall 
semester," 
Keane 
wrote, "there 
is 
evidence that a new feeling, an intruder 
feeling, was creeping into Sam Todd's 
personality, previously so grounded in 
the selflessness of global conceru.: fnr the 
oppressed." 

John Todd read Keane's report but 
was not convinced by it. "Keane puts 
together a lot of things that, when you 
take them out of context, can be used to 
comfort yourself with the idea that they 
explain what may have happened. I just 
wish they presented as strong a story as 
Keane puts together." 

The Reverend George Todd, Sam's 
father, shared John's opinion of Keane's 
report. "If you want to speculate on the 
possibility that Sam left voluntarily, 
then you can put together the kinds of 
things that are in that report. We would 
like to think that the report is right; it's 
the most optimistic scenario. 
But 
weighing all we can find out, it doesn't 
really seem to point substantially in that 
direction." 

Reverend Todd said that Keane's 
report does not contain any information 
that the family didn't already know and 
may in fact contain some inaccuracies. 
"Sam is a very open kind of guy, and so 
various kinds of things in the report, the 
things about completing his coursework 
and not having paid his bill, are things 
we were aware of from the start. There 
wasn't anything that seemed to repre-
sent any extraordinary special kind of


**The Search for Sam**
**Author: Michael Freitag**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
deal with the family in privacy, let alone 
having to deal with the public as a 
whole. So, we made a conscious deci-
sion to let things cool off as much as 
possible in the hope that when things 
were not so focused on Sam he might be 
a little more willing to come back. So 
far, that hope has been unfounded." 

Although the search does not receive 
as much press attention as it once did, 
possible sightings continue 
to 
be 
reported almost on a weekly basis. One 
such incident occurred this New Year's 
Eve, exactly one year after Sam's disap-
pearance. Doris Todd received a phone 
call from the New York City Police; 
they had a street person in their office 
who seemed to match Sam's descrip-
tion. H oping that the family's search 
would reach a miraculous conclusion 
one year after it began, Doris rushed to 
the police station. She immediately 
realized, however, that the young 
vagrant was not Sam. As the dejected 
Doris Todd was leaving the office, the 
young man turned to a policeman and 
innocently asked, "Well, am I Sam or 
aren't I?" 

"That really brought home to all of us 
the seriousness of the situation of a lot of 
people out there in the streets," John 
Todd said. "They are 'missing' in a 
much deeper sense than Sam. They 
don't even have someone to tell them 
who they are." 

According to john, the Todds' deter-
mination to find Sam remains strong. 
"You have to keep doing something in 
order to preserve your own peace of 
mind. There's always that lingering 
feeling that if only you could reach out a 
little bit more vou could touch Sam in 
some way and (naybe bring him home." 

j ohn is planning a one-day reunion of 
Sam's searchers to take place in New 
York City later this month. This gather-
ing, John said, will be a "fellowship of 
faith. It will provide an opportunity for 
us to keep the h9pe of Sam, rather than 
the memory of Sam. alive." 

• 

M ichael Freitag, a j unior in Branford C?l-
lege, is a managing editor of the Yale Dally 
News. 


**25th Reunion**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 32**

Beginning this week, 
to ask you to make a p 
pledged on an annual 
our Class's 25th reunion 
I FUND 

