Publication date: December 4, 1992
Volume: 25
Issue number: 3

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Sarah DiGiulio
- Editor-in-Chief: Kathy Reich
- Managing Editors: Emily Bazelon, Charlotte Brooks
- Business Manager: Tina Asmuth
- Designer: Annette Kirchner
- Production Manager: Jay Porter
- Photography Editor: Jennifer Wang
- Associate Publisher: Kathleen Weyman
- Associate Editor: Joel Tesoro
- Alumni Director: Rosita Choy
- Circulation Manager: Sonya Joo
- Staff: Josh Auerbach*, Kate Brewster, Joshua Civin*, Vikash Dhindhwal*, David Gerber, Erik Meers, Suzanne Kim*, Savannah Neely, Cheryl Sheinkopf*, Seija Tupasela
-*Joined staff November 28, 1992
- Board Members and Directors: Edward B. Bennett III, Constance Clement, Peter B. Cooper, Andy Conn, Brooks Kelley, Patricia Pierce, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Friends: Anson M. Beard, Jr., Edward B. Bennett, Jr., Edward B. Bennett III, Blaire Bennett, Gerald Bruder, Jonathan M. Gade, Louise F. Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Jerry and Rae Cowit, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, John Heney, Brooks Kelley, Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr., Lewis E. Lehrman, E. Nobles Lowe, Peter Neill, Julie Peters, Fairfax C. Randall, Nicholas X. Rizopoulos, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Dick and Debbie Scan, Richard Shields, Thomas Strong, Elizabeth Tate, Alex and Betsy Tordillo, Allen and Sarah Wardell, Daniel Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

STANDARDS
Letter to the Editor
Newsjournal - Yale AIDS Drug Boosts Hope, One Giant LEAP, New Age Scribes
Between the Vines: Fire Station Democracy. - Josh Civin
PROFILES
Crusader for Cambodia. - Joel Tesoro
AIDS' Embattled Prophet. - Charlotte Brooks
FEATURES
The Apathy and the Ecstasy. - Josh Auerbach
Women's Studies: Fighting for Respect. - Suzanne Kim
Legitimate Grievances. - Sonya Joo
Who Tolls the Bells? - Stephanie Lowell
Afterthought: The Boys of Autumn. - Elisha Cooper


**Title: AIDS' Embattled Prophet**
**Author: Charlotte Brooks**
**Page number(s): 20**


**Title: Letter to the Editor**
**Author:  [Not specified]**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Newsjournal**
**Author: [Various]**
**Page number(s): 5**

Yale AIDS Drug Boosts Hope
One Giant LEAP
New Age Scribes


**Title: Between the Vines: Fire Station Democracy**
**Author: Josh Civin**
**Page number(s): 8**


**Title: Crusader for Cambodia**
**Author: Joel Tesoro**
**Page number(s): 16**


**Title: The Apathy and the Ecstasy**
**Author: Josh Auerbach**
**Page number(s): 12**


**Title: Women's Studies: Fighting for Respect**
**Author: Suzanne Kim**
**Page number(s): 23**


**Title: Legitimate Grievances**
**Author: Sonya Joo**
**Page number(s): 26**


**Title: Who Tolls the Bells?**
**Author: Stephanie Lowell**
**Page number(s): 30**


**Title: Afterthought: The Boys of Autumn**
**Author: Elisha Cooper**
**Page number(s): 34**



**Title: Letter Challenges Funding Claim**
**Author: Roben H. Kilpatrick**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The· article "Women's Clinics in 
Crisis" in the Sept. 4 issue is mislead-
ing in stating that "Women's Health 
Services and Planned Parenthood 
receive less in federal subsidies" than 
community health centers, "although 
they treat comparable numbers of low-
. 
, 
mcome patients. 

While it may be true that some 
community health centers receive 
more federal grants than these 
women's clinics, it is unlikely that the 
women's clinics see as many low-
income patients or have the same over-
all volume of business. As providers of 
comprehensive preventive and primary 
care, community health centers see 
people of all ages and genders and are 
especially dedicated to serving low-
income populations. In 1991, for 
example, Hill Health Center served 
nearly 15,000 people, 72 percent of 
whom were under the poverty level. 
Of the nearly 8,000 females seen by · 
the Center in 1991, some 3,700 were 
women of child-bearing age. Seventy-
seven percent of the 566 women wing 
the Center's family planning service in 
1991 were at or below the poverty 
level. Another indicator of volume is 
that our OB-Gyn Department record-
ed 5,340 medical visits in 1991. 

In the fiscal year that ended June 
30, 1991, about 25 percent of the Hill 
Health Center's income came from 
federal grants-not 64 percent as the 
article stated. It must be remembered 
that the range of problems addressed 
by community health centers is 
broad-AIDS, homelessness, sub-
stance abuse, teenage pregnancy, 
infant mortality, immunizations, 
chronic 
and 
episodic 
illness. 

Consequently, our opportunities (and 
competition) for federal and state 
grants to meet these needs are greaL 

Looking generally at federal subsi-
dies, it should be said that another 37 
percent of our revenue in 1991 came 
from patient fees, of which Medicaid 
was a sizeable chunk. Thw, it is true 
that community health centers are 
heavily subsidized by the federal gov-
ernment, but their mission of provid-
ing first-class care to the poor requires 
substantial public funding in the 
absence of private initiatives. 

Sincerely, 
Roben H. Kilpatrick 
Director of Public Relations, Hill 
Health Corporation 
The New Journal we/cowus ktters to th~ 
~ditor. Pl~au addr~ss th~m to Kathy 
R~ich, The New Journal, 3432 Yal~ 
Station, New Havm, CT 06520. 


**Title: Corrections**
**Author: The New Journal**

Our Oct. 16 story "The Struggle to 
Respond" failed to state that Yale's pol-
icy toward Response and other under-
graduate peer counseling groups strict-
ly respects the groups' confidentiality 
policies. At no time do university offi-
cials ask peer counselors for any kind 
of details about or names of their 
counselees. 

Our Oct. 16 story "The King of 
Chapel Street" referred to the negative 
impact that the proposed Hamden 
Cou.n Mall would have on downtown 
New Haven's retail district. However, 
Hamden's town zoning board has 
rejected the plans for the mall, so the 
concerns raised in the article are moot. 
Also, the article asserted that New 
Haven would have to raise taxes to pay 
for the proposed Taubmen Mall. This 
is not the case; the mall will be funded 
by state dollars. 

The photo of Hillary Clinton in the 
Oct. 16 issue was taken by Valerie 
Skrdja. 

TIH Nnv journal regrets the errors.


**Title: Yale AIDS Drug Boosts Hope**
**Author: Kate Bmuster**
**Page number(s): 5**

D4T, a new AIDS drug developed 
at the Yale School 'Of Medicine, may 
overtake AZT as the leading means of 
prolonging the lives of people with 
AIDS. Developed with the help of a 
patent and funding from Bristol-
Meyers Squibb, and with a boost from 
a new Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) program that speeds drugs' 
transition from laboratory to patient, 
the drug has successfully passed two 
rounds of laboratory testing. D4T has 
left its creators-Or. William Prushoff 
and researcher Tai-Shu Lin-and gone 
on to clinical trials at about 45 institu-
tions in the United States and Europe. 

Thanks to the FDA's new Parallel 
Tracking Program, physicians may now 
prescribe D4T to patients who cannot 
handle other drugs, even though the 
new drug has not completed the thre~ 
phases of testing that the FDA usually 
requires before it officially approves a 
dtug. Extensive clinical trials follow two 
rounds of laboratory tests, a costly and"" 
time-consuming process. "From con? 
ception to counter, a drug costs $250 
million and can take as long as ten 
years," said Prushoff. However, as the 
first drug approved under the FDA's 
new program, D4T was released on a 
limited basis at the beginning of clinical 
testing. 

Results of the laboratory tests indi-
cate that D4T may often succeed where 
AZT and DDI, other widely-used 
drugs that fight AIDS, have failed. 
D4T has already proved more effective 
than DDI, and its beneficial effects last 
much longer than AZT's, according to 
a July report in The Walt Street journal 
More significantly, Prushoff said the 
first phase of testing has already shown 
that D4T has a lower toxicity than 
AZT, which can damage bone marrow. 
Prushoff hopes that more patients will 
be able to take D4T, and that they will 
be able to do so for a longer period than 
DECEMBER 4> 1992 
Prusho.lf and Lin discovered D4T. 

they could with AZT. 

With D4T, Prushoff continues a 
research career that began with the first 
herpes drug intended to combat eye 
infections, which he developed in the 
1950s. Since then, he has specialized in 
"modification structure"-synthesizing 
compounds that mimi<;: parts of the 
DNA molecule, but actually inhibit it 
from replicating. D4T, like AZT and 
the herpes drug, works at the molecular 
level on this principle. In anti-cancer as 
well as in anti-AIDS drugs, modifica-
tion structure aims to prevent viral 
DNA from reproducing itself, cutting 
short the most basic process through 
which infection spreads. 

Prushoff calls modification struc-
ture "a widely-used but inefficient 
approach." He looks toward new tech-
nologies that may soon reduce medical 
guesswork, such as X-ray crystallogra-
phy, which allows scientists to see 
molecular structure more easily. 

Awaiting these improved techniques, 
Prushoff hopes that work like his will 
become more precise. "Right now," he 
said, "it's rational serendipity." 
-Kate Bmuster


**Title: One Giant LEAP**
**Author: Savannah Nely**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Almost 50 percent of New 
Haven's youth drop out of school and 
an estimated 10,000 of the city's chil-
dren live in poverty, but the financial-
ly-strapped city cannot afford to pay 
for new youth programs. An innova-
tive public-private collaboration called 
Leadership, Education and Athletics in 
Partnership for New Haven Youth 
(LEAP) has stepped in to fill the gap. 

With a free summer camp operated 
out of several New Haven housing 
projects, LEAP aims to expand the life 
opportunities of inner-city children. 
Community 
activist 
Anne 
Calabresi and several friends raised 
over $176,000 from local corpora-
tions, foundations, universities, and 
the Federal government to fund the 
free eight-week day camp. LEAP used 
the funds to pay for transportation, 
educational supplies, and training and 
salaries for 60 counselors, chosen from 
New Haven area colleges and high 
schools. 

Groups of eight children ranging 
from 7 to 13 years old, one senior 
counselor, and one junior counselor 
spent three mornings a week in a class-
room. They explored skills like prob-
lem-solving and decision-making 
through hands-on learning projects in 
reading, science, and math. The 
groups spent the rest of the week in 
activities and outings around New 
Haven. Counselors also took children 
on one week-long trip to either 
Boston, Toronto, or Washington, 
D.C. 

LEAP gathered resources and 
recruited students for the program 
through extensive community net-
working. The program obtained class-
room space at the Lincoln-Bassett 
public school, and Yale provided 
campers with the use of a pool in 
Payne-Whitney Gymnasium for five 
afternoons a week. David Echols, exec-
utive director of the New Haven 
Housing Authority, secured vacant 
THE Nsw JouRNAL 5 

units in housing projects for senior 
counselors. By living in the areas 
where they worked, counselors could 
establish closer ties not only with the 
children but with their parents, whose 
support LEAP believes is crucial to the 
success of the program. 

The 240 children who participat-
ed in LEAP had not previously experi-
enced many of the activities the pro-
gram provided. "If I wasn't doing 
LEAP, I wouldn't be doing nothing in 
the summer," said Tashema Cloud, 9. 
Some of the campers sold drugs before 
the program began. "A few kids that 
eventually ended up in the program 
we literally pulled in off the street cor-
ner," said project coordinator Matt 
Klein (BR '93). Counselors stuffed 
mailboxes with information and 
LEAP aims to ~ducau innn--city youth. 
depended on word-of-mouth to 
recruit most of the LEAP participants. 
"I started going because all my friends 
were going," said Sherrea Meyers, 12. 

While camper recruitment may 
have been flexible, LEAP selected 
counselors through an extremely rigor-
ous application process. The board 
sought as role models for the children 
high school and college students who 
had made it out of the projects them-
selves. "We didn't want to hear about 
'I want to do this, I want to do that' 
from our applicants," said program 
director H enry Fernandez (LAW '93), 
"but rather about their interest in the 
kids." 

LEAP recruited junior counselors 
with similar qualifications in mind. 
Tara Waller, currently a senior at the 
High School in the Community, heard 
about LEAP from a teacher. "She knew 
I would be interested because I'd 
already been involved in tutoring bilin-
gual kids after school," Waller said. 
Like all LEAP juniol' counselors, Waller 
comes from the New H aven area, and 
she continues to meet with her campers 
six hours a week outside of school. 

According to Klein, most junior and 
senior counselors keep in contact with 
their students throughout the year and 
will return for the second summer in 
1993. 

During the rw<rweek training peri-
od, counselors organized an entire cur-
riculum for their students that included 
no homework besides journal entries. 
Instead, counselors focused on main-
taining campers' attention through par-
ticipation-oriented activities. One 
group wrote a play about growing up in 
the projects, which they performed for 
Senators C hristopher Dodd (D-CT) 
and Joseph Lieberman (O-CT ). 

Another group designed a model city in 
which campers chose their own profes-
sions. Although counselors enjoyed the 
creative process of designing a curricu-
lum, LEAP plans to give them more 
structure next year. The program will 
also train counselors to identifY learn-
ing disabilities and to cope with abused 
children. 

In 1993, LEAP will add one more 
camp site and double the number of 
children involved in the program. 
LEAP hopes to save as many New 
H aven children as possible from the 
dangers of the streets. "If we're not 
aggressive with our programs and don't 
take some risks," said Calabresi, "we 
will continue to lose our children. " 
-Savannah N~~ly
DECEMBER 4· 1992 

**Title: New Age Scribes**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
New Age Scribes 
In the Middle Ages, monastic 
scribes copied manuscripts by hand for 
six hours a day in rooms called scripto-
ria. They observed strict silence, but 
sometimes monks wrote thoughts in 
the margins of their work: "The parch-
ment is hairy," or "Now, I've written 
the whold thing: for Christ's sake give 
me a drink.'' In the days before the 
printing press, the monks, supported 
by the rich and powerful Catholic 
Church, served as the world's primary 
bookmakers. 


Today, books are typeset on com-
puters and most monks no longer 
double as scribes. Yet modern monas-
teries must support themselves. One 
monastery, the Holy Cross Abbey in 
Berryville, Virginia-home to 25 
Benedictine Cistercian monks-
has 
found a way to combine old traditions 
and new technology, as well as to pay 
the bills. They help the Yale Library 
with its number one customer request: 
to transfer more books into Orbis, the 
computerized card catalogue. 


Last January, Brother Benedict 
Simmonds of the Holy Cross Abbey; 
approached Monty Montee, head of 
cataloguing for Yale's libraries, and 
Fred Martz, head of database manage-
ment, with the idea of "The Electronic 
Scriptorium." The monks proposed to 
convert drawers of 3-by-5 index cards 
to computer files for loading into 
Orbis, a process called retrospective 
conversion, or recon for short. The 
librarians planned a pilot project to 
convert 10,000 Cross Campus 
records. "We did some comparative 
shopping with other vendors," said 
Martz. "When you calculate all the 
costs, this is the best approach." 


The Electronic Scriptorium is the 
latest twist in the monastery's unique 
economic history. In 1950, when 20 
monks founded the Holy Cross Abbey, 
they supported themselves by farming 
the 1 ,200 acres of monastery land and 
by baking Monastery brand bread. 


During the 60s, however, the number 
of monks decreased and they were 
forced to rent out the farm. "The bak-
ery became the center of our work and 
for many years bread was our prod-
uct," said Brother Simmonds. "But the 
bread economy has changed quite rad-
ically. In 1984 we began baking fruit-
cakes." The first year the monks baked 
1,500 fruitcakes. Now they bake 
30,000 annually, almost all of which 
they sell around Thanksgiving and 
Christmas. 


Their prodigious baking, however, 
created a logistical nightmare for the 
monks-how in Heaven's name to 
organize the distribution of 30,000 
fruitcakes in three months. Like many 
entrepreneurs in the 1990s, they 
bought a computer. But then the 
problem arose of what to do with the 
computer for the other nine months of 
the year. "We began to think of 
putting our monastic community back 
in the service of the humanitarian pur-
suits that monasteries have always 
served," said Brother Simmonds. It 
was at this point that the monks of the 
Holy Cross Abbey thought up the 
Electronic Scriptorium. 


One of the monks' tasks will be to 
check the public Orbis records against 
the library's Authority File, a list of 
names of authors in Library of 
Congress proper form. The monks 
will make sure, for example, that both 
Ular and P~au and Anna Karen ina will 
be found under Tolstoy, rather than 
one under Tolstoy and the other under 
Tolstoi. The monks have arranged to 
access Orbis directly, via the national 
computer network Internet, to do the 
job more quickly and cheaply than 
large commercial vendors. 


The monks will also create 10,000 
book records. For most books the 
monks can look up the record on a 
CD-ROM purchased from the Library 
of Congress. They will then load the 
record onto their computers, make any 
necessary changes, and save it on their 
hard drive. For books not on the CO-
ROM they will have to create records 
from scratch. Eventually they will 
transfer all the records to a magnetic 
tape, which will go to Yale to be 
copied into Orbis. 


Because the library has no money 
set aside for recon, after this pilot pro-
ject ends it has no definite plans to 
continue working with the monastery. 
"We have enough trouble keeping up 
with the new books that come in," 
said Martz. But Yale does receive 
donations specifically for recon-such 
as one for a project now underway to 
convert 40,000 volumes of Western 
Americana. If more donations come 
in, and if the monks satisfy librarian 
expectations, they could get a crack at 
some of the 5 million volumes still 
waiting to be entered into Orbis. 


In the meantime, the monks are 
busy creating an information system 
for the Johns Hopkins Medical 
Library and looking for other libraries 
in need of their services. For the Yale 
librarians, working with the monks 
instead of a large commercial vendor 
has given a different feel to recon. "It 
has some appropriateness for the 
library," said Martz. "In the old days 
monasteries were the keepers of the 
books. Many of the most famous, 
valuable, and rare books in Beinecke 
Library would have been long gone if 
monks hadn't taken care of them 
through the Middle Ages. It's coming 
full circle." 
-Paa-Seib~l 


**Title: Fire Station Democracy**
**Author: Josh Civin**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

BETWEEN THE VINES----------------------
Fire Station Democracy 
josh Civin 
W;
en people calk about the Dwight-Edgewood 
eighborhood that extends down Whalley 
Avenue, they invariably mention its diverse 
blend of people. The neighborhood's socio-economic, eth-
nic, and religious mix drew me to the community's polling 
place on election day. I hoped to observe voting day action 
in a neighborhood known as a microcosm of New Haven. 


As dusk approached, I parked on a side. street nestled 
between grandiose Victorian mansions and low-income 
apartments. Down the road, I found an unassuming fire 
station with huge glass-paneled garage doors. The isolated 
clusters of people outside did not match the crowd con-
tained in the small rectangular structure. People filled the 
building, forming an immense line that lumbered slowly 
forward towards the voting booths. 


Lieutenant Don Donahu, the fire staciCU1's command-
ing officer, described the crowd as "multi-international," 
carefully enunciating each syllable. Indeed, in my first few 
moments I saw Orthodox Jews, Latinos, 
Mrican Americans, 
business suits, 
lies, and Yale students. It looked like 
the whole community had migrated 
through rainy cold and conglomerated 
in the hazy glow of the fire station on 
120 Ellsworth St. "People are droving in 
here to put their little vote in, n com-
mented firefighter Leon Brown, who was 
on duty to help voting proceed smoothly. 


Outside, bundled up in a blue parka, Sally 
Connelly distributed Democratic literature 
to her neighbors. "People are really eager and 
committed," she commented. "I've heard 
some wonderful stories of people who've just gone through 
fire and brimstone to vote." 


Inside, wisps of conversation, screams of impatient chil-
dren, and the ever-present chatter of the fire-station radio 
filled the air. But even the poll-workers' cajpling, "Tighten 
up ... Get close ... Everyone start hugging and kissing ... Move 
to the back of the bus," could not pierce the almost surreal 
hush of those in the line, a line which showed no sign of 
ending. As quickly as possible, the official checkers marked 
off each name on the huge white sheets that listed the 
neighborhood's residents. "I didn't think there would be this 
many people, to tell you the truth," remarked Omar Ursini, 
one of the checkers. Another checker, Katheline Faight, 
added, "Eighty percent turnout and still coming, will you 
look at this!" Ursini continued, "The crowd hasn't let up 
since 6:00 this morning. We've done almost 2,000 people." 


The only people who did not participate in the com-
motion consuming the fire station were those who worked 
there every day. The firefighters idled at the edge of the 
chaotic scene, strangely displaced from their own turf. 


Lieutenant Donahu stood at the doorway of his office and 
smoked. "When I opened up the station, there were people 
waiting in line outside in the pouring rain to vote," he 
observed in a New Haven accent. "The incumbents are in 
trouble, in my opinion. It's time for a change." 


It's tim~ for a chang~. Outside and inside, poll workers, 
voters, and campaign volunteers chanted this phrase like a 
prayer. Throughout the campaign, I had thought this slo-
gan to be a corny sound-bite, painfully lacking supporting 
substance from any candidate. But obviously, in the 24th 
Ward, a yearning for realistic innovation was driving people 
to participate in the election process. "They're tired of the 
starus quo," said Faight. Ursini half-joked, "I hope so." 


Outside, in the misty drizzle chat penetrated just 
enough to freeze the ink of my ballpoint pen, the voters also believed that their vote might help fuel thts 
much-heralded change. David Roberts, a computer opera-
tor, said, "This is the first time I decided to vote. Because of 
the way the economy is and the way people who've been in 
public office have been running it, I thought now I would 
be able to say something and it would count." 


For some the line was too overwhelming. An old man 
in an overcoat opened the door, took one look at the crowd, 
and muttered, "Don't have the attitude for this." But sue~ 
reac~ions proved rare. While a few looked frustrated and 
tired, a neighborly, almost convivial atmosphere flowed 
through the fire station. "A few people have left. They have 
to be at work," said assistant registrar Sandy Clendenen. 
"But in general, people are in good temper and cheerful." 


Enthusiasm permeated the air of what at times felt like 
a reunion. "In a way, it's a chance for neigh-
bors to see each other who may not other-
wise," said voter Breina Schain. "It is a 
meeting place where people can greet each 
other in a safe area where common interests 
are going on." The communal spirit seemed 
abnormal. While all insisted that Edgewood 
provided a decent place to live, the neigh-
borhood definitely did not convey a picture 
of urban harmony. More a neighbor than a 
politician, Alderwoman Liz McCormick 
had been busy explaining the various refer-
endum questions to voters. She listed what 
she considered Edgewood's three major 
problems: "prostitution, absentee landlords 
who don't maintain property, and crime 
including theft, car theft, break-ins, and 
drugs." But she quickly qualified her 
remark, "Not that the whole ward is ram-
pant with all of these." 


"This is a neighborhood in transition," 
said Schain. "I refuse to be nervous about 
my surroundings; however, I do feel it's 
dangerous to the point where it shouldn't 
be." Brian Pence (BK '96), who, like many 
Yale students, had spent several hours can-
vassing the neighborhood, remarked, 
"There's a lot of--maybe not fear-but at 
least nervousness. A lot of people didn't 
even want to open doors when we 
knocked." 


The increase in nervousness has sparked 
devotion to community rejuvenation 
efforts. In the last few years, an active 
blockwatch organization and the Edgewood 
Neighborhood Association (ENA) have 
contributed a great deal to stopping crime. 
They have also fought prostitution with the 
notorious, if inventive, "John-of-the-Week" 
campaign. Joseph Firine, the ENA presi-



**Monday Night Football**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
r-------.-, 
I 
Monday Night Football: 
domestic bottled beers $1 
and free food at half time 
Specials every night 
Live entertainment Wed.-Sat. 
Video Jukebox • Pool 
Table • 5 TVs 
882 Whalley Ave., New Haven 
(203) 389-8576 


**The Apathy and the Ecstasy**
**Author: josh Auerbach**
**Page number(s): 12**

·p or the weekday warriors of Timothy Dwight and Ezra 
Stiles, the annual race for the Tyng Cup has become a 
Cold War of athletic enmity. The two intramural 
superpowers stare each other down from opposite sides of 
the Yale map, while the other ten colleges struggle in the 
shadow of their monumental rivalry. If fall intramural 
results hold true, this should be the year that TO's red-clad 
army finally recaptures the coveted Cup, which has spent 
the last three years in the clutches of the enemy. 
Meanwhile, no college has been more quickly ousted from 
the Tyng fray than Calhoun, whose beleaguered intramu-
raletes find themselves in an increasingly familiar posi-
tion--dead last. 
The seeds of fortune in this year's race for the Tyng 
were sown during last year's intramural campaign. 
Calhoun spent virtually the entire year deeply mired in last 
place, finishing too far behind the other colleges even to get 
mud kicked in its face. With enthusiasm at a record low, 
this year promised to be an uphill batcle for Calhoun intra-
mural die hards. "It's a cyclical pattern," said Mari Willits 
(CC '94), captain of coed football. "People won't come out 
for intramurals if they think we're going to lose, and they 
definitely won't come out if they think we're going ro for-
feit." 
TD, meanwhile, after struggling for the majority of the 
year, made a late spring charge for last year's Tyng that con-
sumed the entire college, according to intramural secretary 
Chris Dodge (TD '93). TDers hung red flags and t-shins 
out of their windows to show their solidarity as the gap 
with Stiles narrowed. Eventually, TD came up just short 
and had to settle for a close second. 
Last spring's enthusiasm carried over into this year, and 
DECEMBER 4· 1992. 



**Title: A Red October**
**Author: Josh Auerbach**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the result was an overwhelmingly Red October. TD cap-
tured championships in five of the eight fall sports. With 
531 Tyng Cup points, 135 more than second-place Stiles, 
TD is threatening to turn this year's race into a runaway. 
Calhoun, on the other hand, with only 181 points, could 
conceivably score fewer points this year than TD has tallied 
in the fall season alone. 


The stark athletic contrast between TD and Calhoun 
is, on the surface, difficult to explain. After all, Yale assigns 
freshpeople to their residential colleges at random, without 
regard to their athletic prowess or dedication. But when 
the intramural call goes out, TDers dutifully set aside 
books, musical instruments, and even other varsity sports 
to win glory for their college, while the 'Houn emits a col-
lective yawn. "lntramurals are a huge part of the identity 
of this college," said Kathryn Crump (TD '94), one of 
TO's intramural secretaries. "Even people who don't play 
identify with them." 


The personal commitment of some TDers to intramu-
rals rivals that of the most dedicated varsity athletes. Many 
often skip classes to participate. Past intramural secretaries 
have even scheduled all of their classes in the morning to 
minimize conflicts, Crump said. 


TD Master Robert Thompson, known affectionately 
to his students as "Master T," is the driving force behind 
TO's tradition of intramural success. Thompson values 
athletic competition as a unifying thread in a diverse col-
lege community. "lntramurals are such a beautiful way to 
bring people together," he said. "With the residential col-
lege system under bombardment, athletics bring people's 
interest back into the college. The playing fields enhance 
the dining hall and the life of the college as a whole." 


Thompson, a historian of New York culture, often 
brings celebrities to campus to celebrate Tyng Cup tri-
umphs. Past visitors have included musician David Byrne 
and film director Jonathan Demme. "He knows everyone," 
Dodge said. "This year he's promised 
to try to bring us Madonna." "If we 
win," Thompson said, "I promise the 
party of the century." 


Thompson's sideline antics in 
support of TD teams are the stuff of 
lege.nd. He once showed up to a 
women's soccer game wearing a red 
TD flag as a cape. 
On a hot 
September day, while cheering for the 
men's soccer team, he stripped from a 
business suit to boxer shorts. In past 
years, Thompson even played on TO's 
coed touch football team. "I made a 
touchdown once," he recalled, "and it 
was the thrill of my life. Too bad it 
was disqualified." 


TO's torrid rivalry with Ezra 
Stiles provides the fuel that sustains 
this high level of enthusiasm. "Stiles 
is the college that we have so much 
venom for," Crump said. The two 
powerhouses have won 1 0 of the last 
11 Tyng Cup championships, with 
Morse breaking the duopoly in 1987. 
For the last three years, TO has 
watched bitterly as irs rival captured 
the Tyng. "Stiles is a group that 
comes together as a result of the dire 
circumstance of living in an ugly 
building," Dodge said. "They are a 
ccStiles is a group that 
comes together as a 
result of living in an 
ugly building. " 
much larger college than TO, and 
they have little success at other 
endeavors." 


TD is, in fact, the smallest of 
Yale's residential colleges. With 376 
students, 70 fewer than Stiles, TO's 
success seems all the more remarkable. 
Yet Dodge admits that TO derives 
some advantage from the fact that 
freshpeople live in the college, since 
new students become immersed in the 
tradition right at the start of their Yale 
careers. 


Zealous TDers flock to the intra-
mural fields in droves. "Each ream 
has a core group of people, the mini-
mum amount needed to play, who 
come to every game," Crump said. 
"Others come pretty regularly." The 
biggest problem that captains of TO 
teams face is spreading playing time 
around to everyone who shows up to 
play. "Some people do get discour-
aged," Crump said. "Fifteen men 
once showed up ro fill three spots in a 
volleyball game." TO often intimi-
dates irs opponents through sheer 
numbers, 
according 
to 
Greg 
Mohrman, Calhoun intramural secre-
tary. "At their football games, there's a 
sea of red shirts on the sidelines," he 
said. 


In Calhoun, meanwhile, the race 
for the Tyng Cup is largely an exercise 
in apathy. Captains of Calhoun teams 
must scramble to find players on a 
day-to-day basis. "In other colleges, 
people tend to schedule their time 
around in tram urals," Mohrman said. 
"In Calhoun, it's just nor a priority." 
Intramural 
secretary 
Amanda 
Wheeland (CC '94) recalled that the 
hardest part of her job to dare h as 
been finding 10 ping-pong players for 
each of the season's 11 matches. 


W hat could possibly explain 
Calhoun's intramural ineptitude? 
Wheeland sees a correlation between 
the college's poor performance in the 
Tyng Cup race and its two-year stran-
glehold on the Gimbel Cup, the prize 
for the college whose students possess 
the highest overall GPA. "People in 
Calhoun do their work instead of 
play," she said. 


Recruiting women has been par-
ticularly difficult for Calhoun. 
"There are only three women in the 
college who consistently come out for 
intramurals," Mohrman said. Ellen 
Rothman (CC '94), a sometime 
Calhoun squash player, said that since 
so few women participate, matches 
frequently end in forfeit. "You never 
know if you're actually going to get to 


Calhoun Master Turan Onat, 
who as acting master of Stiles in 1990 
tasted the fruit ofTyng triumph, sens-
es an imminent turnaround in the for-
tunes of Calhoun intramurals. 


"Things are improving," he said. But 
he cautions that winning is not every-
thing. "As long as there is participa-
tion, my heart won't be broken," he 
admitted. 


While Calhoun struggles to avoid 
forfeit, TD teams improve from game 
to game and from season to season. 
Athletes in TD tend to stay commit-
ted to their teams, not only through-
out the season, but throughout their 
time at Yale. "Our men's touch foot-
ball team is awesome," said Ryan 
Williams (TD '95), a member of the 
coed squad. "They've been playing 
together for at least a year." TO's coed 
team has developed an inventory of 
alignments and plays to which new 
players are introduced at the begin-
ning of each season. Calhoun's coed 
team, according to Willits, must vary· 
its strategy depending on who shows 
up for the game, and often settles for 
no strategy at all. 


On game day, experience and 
cohesion propel the TO juggernaut 
straight into the end zone. When 
Calhoun and TO clashed in men's and 
coed touch football, the red army 
marched to victory by twin scores of 
32-0. Shellshocked Calhoun foot-
baller Tom Connally (CC '94) recog-
nized Dodge, a fellow Oklahoman, 
from across the line of scrimmage. 
"He was an all-state quarterback in 
high school," Connally recalled. 


Crump believes TO's overwhelm-
ing success has led some outside of the 
college to erroneously conclude that 
TD has lost the sense that intramurals 
are supposed to be fun. "People think 
that TO is all about winning," she 
said. "They think we want to score as 
many points as possible. It hurts 
sometimes." Mohrman, who is also a 
referee for intramural football, noted 
that TO football games often get out 
of hand, not because of any malicious 
intent on TO's part, but because of 
the natural flow of the game. "They'll 
score a few touchdowns, get excited, 
score a few more, and all of a sudden 
the score is 49-0 and the other team is 
pissed." 


ccThey'll score a few 
touchdowns, get excited, 
score a few more, and 
all of a sudden the score 
is 49-0 and the other 
team is pissed. n 


One could probably guess at the 
divergent athletic fortunes of the two 
colleges simply from their respective 
intramural t-shirts. Calhoun's recently-
released shirts bear the self-deprecating 
slogan, "Nowhere to Go But Up." 
TO's t-shirts, by contrast, proudly bear 
the college's arcane rallying caJl, "Ashe!" 
"It's our bloodcurdling battle cry," 
Crump said. "Half the people in TO 
don't even know what it means." 


If TDers maintain the intensity 
they exhibited this fall, they could 
finally make good on the promise 
borne on the backside of their t-shirts. 
It could, indeed, be a TO Tyng. 


Meanwhile, this year looks to be an 
unpleasant one for intramural enthusi-
asts in Calhoun. "I'd love to see the 
'Houn emerge, phoenixJike, to chal-
lenge us," said Thompson, who once 
served as acting master of Calhoun. 


Mohrman, however, has slightly less 
mythical goals. ''I'd like to see us get 
out of last place and get competitive," 
he said. In the bifurcated, Cold War 
world of intramural athletics, being 
competitive may be the best for which 
the 'Houn, or any other college stand-
ing between Stiles and TO, can hope. 


**Title: PROFILE Crusader for Cambodia**
**Author: joel Tesoro**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Chanthou Boua has spent much of her life caring for Cambodia. In her work at Khmer Health Advocates (KHA), a Hartford-based public health agency, she helps many of Connecticut's 2,000 Khmer refugees adjust to both the strain of living in a new country and to the trauma of surviving Cambodia's "killing fields." She writes passionately about Cambodian issues, especially regarding the plight of the country's women. As the only surviving member of her family-all of whom were killed by the Khmer Rouge-Boua has dedicated her research and activism to ensuring that her family's murderers will never again control Cambodia. 

Boua's comfortable life in New Haven is a far cry from the shattered lives of the Cambodian families she visits as associate program director of KHA. Founded in 1982, KHA deals with the mental health and readjustment needs of Connecticut's Cambodian refugees. "All miss home terribly," said Boua. "Many refuse to learn English because they think they are going to go home soon." 

Nearly all refugees have lost members of their family to the Khmer Rouge, and do not know whether other relatives are living or dead. Aside from overcoming the shock of separation from their homes and their families, refugees must also deal with the effects of years of terror and strife. They often relive the horrors of the Khmer Rouge years through flashbacks. 

Many Khmer immigrants turn to drugs and alcohol to deal with the mental strain. One Khmer woman in Waterbury even lost her sight. Although doctors have diagnosed nothing physically wrong with her eyes, her mind has apparently suppressed her vision in response to the suffering and bloodshed she saw in Cambodia. "We have seen mothers, too, who might as well be blind," said Mary Scully, executive director of KHA. Although in Cambodia these women may have sacrificed a great deal to protect their children, some have experienced such trauma that they no longer realize when their children need medical attention or help in school. 

For five years, Boua sought news of her parents, sister, and six brothers. In 1979, she traveled to the Thai-Cambodian border with her husband of one year, Ben Kiernan, then an Australian graduate student researching Cambodian history and now a Yale history professor. While Kiernan studied the Khmer language among ethnic Cambodians living in eastern Thailand, Boua visited the refugee camps along the border. "I went around for three months," she recalled, "long enough to find out my family was not among the refugees." 

A month before she and Kiernan arrived in Thailand, a Vietnamese-backed army had swept into Phnom Penh and ousted Pol Pot. The Khmer Rouge retreated to bases along the Thai border. In July 1980, Boua and Kiernan got visas from the new government to America. 

Boua has focused her social work on refugee children, many of whom suffer from lack of concentration, poor academic performance, and difficult home lives. Scully claims that because the experiences of parents and children differ so radically, Cambodian children often feel abandoned. 

Boua meets with educators and social workers to discuss the challenges facing Cambodian adolescents. "We plead with them to take a second look at these kids," she said. She is starting a magazine in which Cambodian youth can write about their lives and problems to encourage the development of self-esteem. Boua also plans to organize a conference to discuss the plight of the refugees and strategies for helping them adapt to America. 

Though not a refugee herself, Boua has made their problems her own.  Boua still suffered from the horror they imposed on Cambodia. She lost her entire family in the period from 1975 to 1979, when the Khmer Rouge slaughtered an estimated 1.3 million Cambodians. 

An academic scholarship to Australia saved Boua from a similar fate. A gifted student who had moved from her home in the Cambodian countryside to study in the capital of Phnom Penh, she left her country in 1972 for a university in Sydney. At the time, an American-backed military dictatorship ruled Cambodia, battling an insurgency that was ravaging the country. The American war in neighboring Vietnam had spilled over Cambodia's borders and led to the emergence of the enigmatic and violent Khmer Rouge revolutionaries, who captured Phnom Penh in 1975. Pol Pot, their leader, renamed Cambodia "Democratic Kampuchea" and sealed off the country from the rest of the world. Foreigners could not get in and Cambodians could not get out. 

At first Boua, like many Cambodians, welcomed the triumph of the Khmer Rouge and the end of the war that had torn Cambodia apart. Stranded in Australia, she helped publish a pro-Khmer Rouge newsletter and followed broadcasts from Radio Phnom Penh. When the names of respected revolutionary leaders inexplicably disappeared from the broadcasts, she began to suspect that something had gone wrong. Then Boua stopped receiving letters from her family. 

They became the first researchers to visit the country after the fall of the Khmer Rouge. "I arrived in Phnom Penh in 1980 for the first time after I left it in 1972," Boua wrote in one of her articles. "I saw a country in ruins." Once a crowded metropolis of 2 million people, the capital looked like a wasteland. Grass grew tall in the former gardens of the city, while cows grazed in the streets of downtown. In a parody of the jungle, broken telephone wires hung from poles like vines dangling from trees. The couple saw elephants wandering the streets amidst the pushcarts and oxcarts of Phnom Penh's daily traffic. "The city was dirty," said Boua, "like a household that hadn't been looked after." 

She and her husband traveled through 13 of Cambodia's 18 provinces. They witnessed incredible devastation and economic hardship. Although the new government had begun to rebuild the country's crippled infrastructure, an economic embargo by the United States and other countries made the job even more difficult. Vietnam had invaded Cambodia in response to Khmer Rouge incursions across its southern border. The international community protested the presence of Vietnamese troops on Cambodian soil, and denied the Vietnamese-installed government relief and development aid. The U.S. voted to allow the Khmer Rouge to maintain its seat in the U.N. as the legitimate Cambodian government-in-exile. 

"Everywhere I went," Boua said, "Cambodians asked me, 'Why? Why are the Western countries recognizing the Khmer Rouge? Don't they believe what we say?'" Cambodian peasants told her how the Khmer Rouge emptied the cities, evacuating people into the countryside and killing many in the process. Intellectuals and ethnic minorities were summarily executed. The Khmer Rouge took children away and taught them to spy on their parents. Pol Pot also imposed a system of communal eating that all but shattered traditional family structure. Aside from those killed by the government, hundreds of thousands died from disease and starvation. The residents of the villages Boua visited inevitably took her to see the local mass grave. My husband is there, they told her. My children are there. 

Boua discovered a nation of widows and mothers, of orphaned daughters and abandoned wives-the group that would become the focus of her research and activism. The Khmer Rouge had killed mostly men, she learned, leaving women to fend for themselves in the new Cambodia. Women now make up close to 65 percent of the adult population. Like survivors of a blast, they are physically unharmed but mentally shaken. 

"Many women will not get over the trauma of the moment when their husbands-and sometimes sons-were taken away, or were shot, or clubbed to death," Boua wrote in a 1982 article for the *New Lift Proj~*. These women still had to work in the fields, care for the children, and eke out a living in the devastated country. "It is primarily women who have borne the brunt of more than a decade of international economic sanctions," she wrote in *Ms.* magazine. 

In her travels through Cambodia, Boua returned to the town where she was born: Thlok Chrou, a small fishing and farming village by the Mekong River. For ten years Boua had lived in this tightly-knit, familial community, in a big wooden house with stilts and a tiled roof. There she found distant relatives living in the ruins of the town. They told her the Khmer Rouge had taken her family away two at a time to be killed. Her father and uncle had died trying to escape. Nothing remained in Thlok Chrou, except the shattered foundations of her family's former home. 

Since returning to Australia from Cambodia at the end of 1980, Boua has logged countless hours telling the world about the horrors of the Khmer Rouge, the troubles and hopes of the Cambodian people, and the shortcomings of the international community's attitude to Cambodia. "Why haven't the Khmer Rouge been tried for their crimes?" she said. "Why are they still walking tall?" As a Cambodia scholar, Boua has helped translate confidential leadership documents from the Pol Pot period and has co-edited with Kiernan a collection of articles on peasants and politics in Cambodia. As a relief worker, she has advised and assisted various aid organizations in their operations in the country. As an activist, she has written articles, appeared on radio shows, and given speeches about Cambodia.


**Title: Cambodia and the problems of its women**
**Author: Joel Tesoro**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Cambodia andr---~~-----------------==-~=============-~ 
the problems o 
its women. Dan 
Duffy (ES '82), an 
editor who has 
published her work 
in 
the journal 
Vi~tnam 
Gmnrttion, admires 
her 
for 
versatility 
determination ... 
"There are so few 
Cambodian 
intellectuals 
left," he said, ~~~=====~~ 
"that they have l-
to do a lot o 
things." 
Boua battles 
internatio nal 
policies that she 
feels continue to ..-.-_. . ..,.. 
hurt Cambodia. 
A 1991 United 
Nations 
Peace 
Plan established L....:::....:....__:___;;;;;;__ ___________
_________ 
_: 
a 
system 
of Boua has alr~ady told h~r daughta Mialia about Pol Pot. 
shared 
power 
between the Vietnamese-installed 
government in Phnom Penh, two 
rebel factions, and the Khmer Rouge. 
Boua was horrified by the news. "My 
God," she remembered thinking, 
"they're coming back to power." To 
prevent this possibility, she had 
helped establish a lobby group to 
pressure the U.S. government to 
withdraw its support from the Khmer 
Rouge. The Campaign to Oppose the 
Return of the Khmer Rouge 
(CORKR), an advocacy group sup-
ported by over 40 relief organizations, 
set up shop in Washington, D.C. in 
1989. Boua is a member of the 
CORKR Board of Advisors, a body 
that includes dignitaries like Haing S. 
Ngor and Elie Wiesel. "Chanthou is 
an adviser, an activist, a fundraiser, 
and a cheerleader," said CORKR 
executive director Craig Etcherson. 
"The well-being of the Cambodian 
people is something she's extremely 
passionate about." 
Boua cares for Cambodia on 
both global and local levels. But she 
reserves her greatest energies to help 
individuals: the women and children, 
the grandmothers, aunts, mothers, 
daughters, and sons of Cambodia. 
For 
Boua, 
the fight 
to end 
Cambodia's suffering is a personal 
battle. She will allow neither individ-
uals nor world powers to forget what 
has happened to her country. And she 
has begun educating her two chil-
dren, ages eight and five , about 
Khmer culture and the horrors of the 
Khmer Rouge. "They already know," 
she said, "about Pol Pot." 
..:J 
Jo~l Tesoro, a junior in Jonathan 
Edwards Coll~g~, is associau ~ditor of 
TN].


**Title: AIDS' Embattled Prophet**
**Author: Charlotte Brooks**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

PROFILE--------------------------------------------------------
AIDS' Embattled Prophet 
Even before Or. Louis Sullivan, Secretary of Health and 
Cathedral to staging "die-ins" -at the San Francisco Gay 
Human Services, finished the opening remarks of his 
Pride March, ACT UP's tactics attracted the public's atten-
1990 Tetelmen Lecture, whistles and shouts from 
tion to government inattention to people with AIDS. 
proteSters in the Bartell Chapel crowd drowned out his words. 
Those same tactics also exposed Kramer and the group 
Sullivan pushed on with his speech despite the demonstra-
to scathing criticism from both the gay co;nmunity and 
tors, many of whom were members of the AIDS Coalition to 
government officials. "A lot of ACT UP's demonstrations 
Unleash Power (ACT UP). "This protest will not change my 
have been destructive," said John Gibbons, a spokesperson 
position on AIDS one iota," Sullivan yelled back. "We are 
for Sullivan. "They turn off people who ordinarily would be 
spending more on AIDS than on any other disease." 
compassionate and interested in their point of view." 
Among the demonstrators stood outspoken gay rights 
Still, many former critics now express grudging respect 
and AIDS activist Larry 
for ACT UP and its founder. 
Kramer (BR '57), in New 
"I think Larry Kramer has 
Haven that day to deliver a 
performed extraordinarily 
lecture on AIDS policy. When 
well in alerting the govern-
Yale officials accused protester 
ment and the private sector to 
and ACT UP member Patrick 
the dangers of AIDS," said Ed 
Greany (BR '93) of violating 
Koch, the former mayor of 
university speech codes and 
New York Ciry. Kramer and 
brought him up before the 
ACT UP have accused Koch 
Executive Committee, Kramer 
of being secretly gay and of 
stepped in. He wrote a sting-
distancing himself from AIDS 
ing and accusatory open letter 
activists to stay in the closet. 
to Ben no Schmidt and the 
"My private life is my own," 
Yale 
Corporation, whose 
said Koch, "but if attacking it 
members included some of his 
gives Kramer the sense that 
friends and classmates. 
he's doing something to pro-
Kramer's actions should 
teet the people for whom he 
have surprised no one. The 
fights, that's okay by me." 
noted novelist and playwright 
Some government offi-
has often criticized friends and 
cials quietly echo Koch's senti-
provoked debate in his decade-
ments, admitting that the 
long fight against government 
AIDS crisis might not have 
-;; neglect of AIDS. Kramer has 
gained the attention it needed 
~ also created controversy within 
without the loud voices of 
-. the gay community and the 
Kramer and ACT UP. The 
i organizations that he helped 
group's tactics have helped 
~ create. "Over the years I have 
change the definition of AIDS 
~ tried every possible idea in the 
and have forced speedier test-
-~ hope that others might pick it Admirn-s call Larry Kramn- th~ proph~t of AIDS. 
ing and approval of experi-
~ upandrunwithit,"hesaid. "I 
mental drugs. "ACT UP, 
j have tried coercion, I have tried jollity, I have tried despair, I 
because it was perceived as a threatening organization, has 
.t have tried anger. You name it, I've tried it." 
been able to accomplish some miraculous things," said 
~ 
ACT UP, which Kramer founded in 1987, quickly 
Kramer. "But the fact that it took ACT UP to do these 
§ became famous for playing out his loud and provocative 
things was ridiculous." 
~ tactics on a large scale. ACT UP members used controversy 
In Kramer's opinion, one of the groups that failed to 
..2 to secure the rapid release of experimental drugs for AIDS 
provide leadership in the fight against AIDS was Gay Men's 
j patients. From disrupting mass at New York's St. Patrick's 
Health Crisis (GMHC), the world's first AIDS service orga-
c:.. 
nization. Kramer himself helped create the group in 1981. 
At the time, he was already infamous within the gay com-
munity for his 1978 novel Faggots, which criticized the shal-
low sex-oriented gay life of the late 70s and enraged many 
who had fought so long for sexual freedom. When Kramer 
wrote to the N~w York Nativ~, a gay newspaper, to express 
his worry about the deaths of some friends from what 
would later be called AlDS, many gays scoffed at the man 
who had urged them to change before they "fucked them-
selves to death." 
"I think the concealed meaning in Kramer's emotional-
ism is the triumph of guilt: that gay men deserve to die 
from their promiscuity," responded Robert Chesley in a let-
ter to the Nativ~. "With Kaposi's sarcoma attacking gay 
men, Kramer assumes he knows the cause." Although many 
would later dub Kramer the prophet of AlDS, much of the 
gay community at the time felt, as Chesley did, that Kramer 
had overestimated the danger of the new and strange disease 
and was using it to reinforce a prudish anti-sex message. 
Kramer's controversial personality soon landed him in 
hot water with the very organization he had helped found. 
"GMHC thinks that it can't do anything that confronts the 
system," he said. "They just go out and raise money and 
very quietly tend to their own. It's cowardice on their part, 
and it used to drive me insane." 
Kramer's insistence that GMHC sp~ out against the 
government caused other board members to fear that he 
would alienate crucial officials. When the group finally 
secured a long-sought meeting with Mayor Koch in 1983, 
fear of a Kramer diatribe led GMHC leaders to exclude him 
from the session. They subsequently voted him off the 
board of the organization. "You need to be able to work 
within the system. That's how we've always 
approached it," said David Eng, a 
spokesperson for GMHC. "We feel that it's 
important to be in Washington, Albany, and 
New York City making sure that fair and 
effective AlDS legislation is passed." 
But in the early 80s, organizations like 
GMHC fought an uphill battle. Many offi-
cials on the state and local levels took their cue 
from Washington, where Ronald Reagan avoided the 
subject of AlDS. While the National Institutes of Health 
(NIH) sat on the $8 million designated for research on the 
disease, Reagan's Secretary of Health and Human Services 
Margaret Heckler claimed that AlDS was not underfunded. 
"I'd call the Reagan policy the passive extermination of gay 
men and IV drug users," said biology professor Alvin 
Novick. Even Surgeon General C. Everett Koop blasted the 
president for his unwillingness to address the problem. 
Kramer vented his anger at GMHC and the govern-
ment through Th~ Normal H~art, an autobiographical play 
that debuted in April 1985. Chronicling the first years of

Larry Kram"'s alur-~go N~d ~~ks conftonts his young" ulf 
in The Destiny of Me, his laust play.



**Larry Kramer: Activist, Playwright, and Yale Alumnus**
**Author: Charlotte Brooks**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the AIDS epidemic and Kramer's own 
battles with GMHC, it quickly 
became both a critical and popular 
success. While the play enhanced 
Kramer's credibility, his outspokenness 
created controversy once again. 
Although ACT UP's radical tactics 
included an infamous protest at St. 
Patrick's Cathedral, where members 
chained themselves to pews, threw 
condoms in the air, and brought high 
mass to a quick halt, Kramer wanted 
the group to go even further. "Larry's 
power decreased at the time of the 
1990 San Francisco AIDS Conference, 
when he called for riots and violence," 
recalled Novick. "The activist commu-
nity sharply rejected the idea. It was a 
kind of repeat of the rejection he had 
experienced from GMHC." 

After the conference, Kramer kept 
a lower profile, but he never retracted 
his provocative call for action. ''I'm not 
by nature a terrorist, but I'm amazed 
that there hasn't been violence," he 
said. "I'm amazed that, with all these 
people dying of AIDS, somebody with 
nothing to lose hasn't taken a pot shot 
at Jesse Helms or Pat Buchanan." 

While the activist community 
drew back from Kramer, he watched 
helplessly as ACT UP lost its energy. 
The very success of ACT UP had taken 
its toll. When the Bush administration 
began to respond to some of the 
group's demands, ACT UP decided to 
tackle additional issues like abortion 
and gay and lesbian rights. 

Disagreements over the direction 
of ACT UP prompted some members 
to quit the group. "Vanguard organiza-
tions never have long lives," explained 
Jason Heffner, a former member of 
ACT UP and a policy analyst for the 
National AIDS Commission. "Many 
of us moved into ACT UP very early, 
dropping everything else we were 
doing in our lives to work on it. Finally 
we had to come back to what we had 
left." 

By 1991, Kramer himself suffered 
from the emotional fatigue of his 
decade-long fight, especially since doc-
tors had diagnosed him as HIV-posi-
tive the year before. In addition, the 
second organization that he had helped 
create slipped steadily out of his con-
trol. "At ACT UP, we bent over back-
wards not to start another awful 
bureaucracy like GMHC," he sajd. 
"We went too far, creating something 
that's democratic to a flaw, where every 
crazy in the wodd can come and 
obstruct progress." 

The radical, often hateful rhetoric 
of ACT UP disappeared from much of 
Kramer's writing. Th~ D~stiny of M~, 
his critically-acclaimed sequel to Th~ 
Normal H~art that recently premiered 
off-Broadway, deals as much with his 
troubled family life as with his AIDS 
activism. In the new play, the unfeeling 
bureaucrats of Th~ Normal H~art have 
become more sympathetic doctors and 
nurses, reflecting Kramer's own experi-
ence with the medical establishment 
since his HIV diagnosis. 

Kramer worries that his personal 
acquaintance with the people he criti-
cizes has compromised his effectiveness 
as an activist. But his most frequent 
targets disagree. "Even though he's a 
personal friend, it makes news when he 
attacks me," said Dr. Anthony Fauci, 
director of AIDS research for NIH. 
"He can blast me in the press one day, 
and we'll discuss it over dinner the 
next." Kramer has in the past labeled 
the doctor an incompetent idiot and a 
monster, but Fauci brushes aside such 
insults as merely Kramer's way of bait-
ing the media. 

Not all of his friends find Kramer's 
stinging words so easy to ignore. "I 
credit Larry Kramer with saving my life 
and millions of other gay men's lives. 
He's a hero to me, and I don't have 
many heroes anymore," said Heffner. 
"But I haven't escaped his wrath or crit-
icism now that I work in the govern-
ment, so my admiration is not without 
a certain amount of pain." 

The Sullivan incident once again 
demonstrated Kramer's willingness to 
alienate friends in the name of his 
cause. While then-Yale president 
Benno Schmidt and the Corporation 
maintained that Greany and the other 
protesters denied Sullivan freedom of 
speech, Kramer claimed that the whole 
incident had been blown out of pro-
portion. "Twenty-five people scream-
ing in Batt~ll Chapel was hardly the 
earth-shattering event that Benno was 
determined to make it appear," he said. 
The Executive Committee eventually 
dropped the charges against Greany, 
but not before Kramer had angered his 
friends on the Corporation. 

Kramer's concern for today's gay 
Yalies may reflect his own college years, 
which were none too bright. As a fresh-
person, academic difficulties and lone-
liness drove him to attempt suicide. "I 
think I truly felt as if I were the only 
gay person at Yale," he recalled. "I 
didn't make any contacts with anyone 
in my own age group in a gay way for 
my entire four years." 

In addition to his intervention on 
Greany's behalf, Kramer has also spo-
ken at a few of Yale's gay events and 
given lectures about AIDS for various 
courses. H e sometimes talks about 
moving back to New Haven to work 
with students. 

"I just hope that gay kids are 
proud of being gay, and that Yale 
accepts and recognizes them," he said. 
"I guess of all the places in the world, 
New Haven represents to me the 
depths of despair that I once was in, 
and how far I've come from that 
despair. And how far the world has 
come, too. 


**Women's Studies: Fighting for Respect**
**Author: Suzanne Kim**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

L
ast spring, Yale made an unprecedented tenure offer. 
The university offered a senior position to associate 
professor Emily Honig, breaking with tradition by 
creating a joint appointment for her in the women's studies 
program and the history department. Many students and 
faculty saw the appointment as a response to long-standing 
demands for tenured faculty in women's studies. "This is 
significant because we didn't have a senior faculty in 
women's studies," said women's studies major Carissa Aoki 
(ES '93). Only by hiring its own senior faculty, women's 
studies supporters argued, could the program attain the 
level of continuity that most departments and large pro-
grams at Yale enjoy. 

Yet Honig passed up the university's offer for a tenured 
position at the prestigious women's studies department of 
the University of California at Santa Cruz, and Yale has no 
plans to replace her either this year or next. Until the uni-
versity acts, the women's studies program is back to the 
small-program status of two assistant professorships, much 
to the chagrin of its students. 

Some students believe that the lack of university sup-
port and the negative attitude toward women's studies that 
they have encountered at Yale comes from a general disre-
spect towards interdisciplinary programs. "There's a basic 
attitude about all alternative disciplines that they are not as 
rigorous as traditional ones," said women's studies major 
Chani Waterhouse (SM '93). According to Laura Wexler, 
the director of undergraduate studies (DUS) of women's 
studies, students say they have been criticized for their 
involvement in the program. "We get reports that people 
are made to justify their choice of a 
women's studies class, much less a 
major," she said. 

Women's studies faculty claim that 
the youth of the program puts pressure 
on it to prove itself in the established 
realm of academia. "Like American 
studies in the 1940s, women's studies 
is still emerging," said Patricia Pierce, 
former associate dean of Yale College. 

Most importantly, the feminist focus 
of women's studies has made the pro-
gram one of the most controversial 
disciplines at Yale. 

As women's studies majors grapple 
with the bias against their chosen field, 
they also must navigate through the 
pitfalls of their program. Students 
express discontent with several aspects 
of their major, including course offer-
ings, advising, and the structure of the 
program. At the root of these prob-
lems lies the high rate of faculty 
turnover. As they struggle to make the 
program work for them, students must 
piece together programs of study from 
a list of courses not under their major's 
control. As a result, they question the 
level of university support for the 
major. 

S
ince its inception in 1979, 
women's studies has grown 
steadily in terms of course offer-
ings and student involvement. The 
program incorporates courses from 
many different departments, drawing 
faculty from a range of disciplines. 
The total number of courses focusing 
on women, including women's 
studies classes, classes in other depart-
ments, and college seminars, rose from 
15 in 1976 to 52 last year. In the same 
15-year span, the number of students 
taking courses on women increased 
from 366 to 1216. 

The enrollment explosion in 
women's studies classes reflects grow-
ing student interest in the field. 
"Feminist scholarship is the cutting 
edge right now in a lot of different dis-
ciplines like history, anthropology, and 
literature," said major Waterhouse. 
"Doing the major means taking classes 
with some of the smartest and best 
thinkers at Yale and being exposed to a 
way of looking at issues that's complex 
and inclusive. It's an incredibly vital 
area of study." 

Yet expansion has come with 
drawbacks. In the past several years, 
some majors have voiced concern 
about the structure of the curriculum. 
Because of the high rate of faculty 
turnover, course offerings in the major 
change from year to year. The specific 
nature of the major's requirements-
five core courses, seven courses in the 
student's area of concentration, one 
course outside that concentration, and 
the senior essay-makes it difficult to 
build a curriculum that can withstand 
the frequent shifts. "It turns into a 
crap shoot whether or not you have 
enough courses to fill the require-
ments," said major Tracy Turner (ES 
'93). And because they must concen-
trate in a particular area of study, some 
majors find it difficult to choose class-
es that apply to both women's studies 
and their area of interest. 

According to history professor 
Nancy Cott, a founder of the women's 
studies program and its current chair, 
consistency in course offerings is not 
the program's most important con-
cern. She sees the constant change as a 
positive influence on the program. "I 
think in a new area like women's stud-
ies that is multi-disciplinary," she said, 
"this kind of differentiation from year 
to year can actually add a lot of vitality 
to the subject and to the teaching of 
the subject." 

But some students disagree. 
"There are times when it's awkward in 
class because we are all coming from 
different backgrounds," said Turner. 
She believes that the major should be 
restructured to focus more on the his-
tory of feminist thought. "There 
should be more theory after the intro-
ductory course so that all the women's 
studies majors work from a basic core 
knowledge," she said. 

Cott believes that exposing stu-
dents to several perspectives on 
women's studies takes precedence over 
creating a common background. "We 
hope to provide students with what we 
see as necessary or minimal exposure 
to different kinds of approaches within 
women's studies," she said. 

Advising, like course offerings, 
suffers from discontinuity. In 
the past five or six years, the 
women's studies DUS has changed 
every year. The DUS's responsibilities 
include teaching the introductory 
course, advising, and performing 
administrative tasks. "We only have 
two junior positions in women's stud-
ies, and sometimes one of those people 
is on leave," Con said. "Also, no one 
wants to be DUS all the time." 

The program has attempted to 
bring in faculty members from other 
departments to act as DUS. But out-
of-program professors have no incen-
tive to take on the extra work load and 
rotate into the position only briefly. 
"When we borrow a faculty member 
from a department to be DUS, it's just 
about inevitable that that person will 
only be able to do it for one year," said 
Cott. 

The turnover in the position of 
DUS and other faculty has hurt the 
advising available to some undergrad-





**Title: The Women's Studies Program at Yale**
**Author: Suzann~ Kim**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
uates when they try to organize their 
curricula. "The faculty turnover affects 
advising because there is no final 
authority," said major Stephanie 
Brenowitz (TO '95). "Some professors 
are so new that there always seems to 
b 
e a gap o mtssmg tnrormatton. 
Th h . h 
e tg 
turnover rate among 
womens stu 1es proressors stems rom 
t e programs Ina 1 tty to tenure tts fLC 
As 
a sma toter tSCI- 
mary program, womens stu tes oes 
not have the same status as a depart-
ment. 
e euntng reature o most 
programs IS t at they can only rna e 
appotntments 10 connecuon wtt 
another department," said Deputy 
P 
rovost 
ar es Long. 
e epart-
ment of the faculty member up for 
tenure m 
es 
t e 
ectston, ra er 
t an 
e women s sru es program. 
Until Emily Honig's appoint-
ment, the program a no m uence 
on the tenure process. Th1s proce-
ure as e to c arges t at sc oar-
ship in women's studies has not been 
accorded enough legitimacy. 
Many women's studies support-
ers point to the case of Professor 
Micaela di Leonardo as an example of 
how this arrangement hurts the pro-
gram. Di Leonardo left Yale two 
years ago after the anthropology 
department did not grant her tenure. 
Although acclaimed by feminist 
scholars, her work did not seem sig-
nificant enough to merit tenure in the 
eyes of senior faculty in the anthro-
pology department. 
In protest, students formed an ad 
hoc committee and drew up a list of 
demands. "We wanted a review of the 
process," said Aoki. "We wanted it to 
be more flexible so that there would 
be more input from others who rec-
ognized work in women's studies as 
work." Committee members request-
ed that money be allocated for a joint 
tenure position to be shared by 
women's studies, and a general re-
evaluation of the tenure procedure. 
Without senior positions to move 
into, women's studies faculty leave 
Yale after six or seven years, the usual 
amount of time for assistant profes-
sors unless they get promoted. Their 
departures create a sense of instability. 
"What makes the overall faculty affili-
ated with women's studies seem more 
volatile is that it's not really under the 
control of the program," said Cott. 
According to Long, however, the 
university has supported the pro-
gram. He points to the joint promo-
tion of Honig, which would have cost 
the university more money because 
one senior professorship equals two 
junior positions in cost. "The admin-
istration has agreed to thJ: creation of 
the senior position, which immedi-
ately changes the nu~ber of junior 
faculty equivalents from two to 
three," he said. 
Long admits that in the past 13 
years the constant change that has 
plagued the women's studies program 
has primarily burdened students. 
"The current undergraduates have 
had a hard time with continuity," he 
said. "Micaela di Leonardo's depar-
ture, the delay in replacing her, and 
Emily Honig's departure have made 
continuity appear more difficult in 
the past few years." 
Women's studies majors bal-
ance their frustrations against their 
enjoyment of their courses. " My 
women's studies classes have been 
absolutely the most exciting classes 
I've taken at Yale," said Waterhouse, 
"the classes in which I've been on the 
edge of my seat." 
Honig's tenure would have 
brought new hope for stability as well 
as vitality in the program. Her depar-
ture, and the university's failure to flU 
the postion, have left students doubt-
ful of improvement in the near 
future. "You take what you can get," 
said Brenowitz, "when you're a 
women's studies major." 


**Title: Legitimate Grievances**
**Author: Sonya Joo**
**Page number(s): 26**

I' 
legations of sexual harassment recently have shaken 
the foundations of Yale's ivory tower. Kate Joost, a 
raduate student at the University of Oregon, 
accused School of Forestry professor Stephen Kellert of 
forcibly kissing and touching her when she visited the uni-
versity as a prospective graduate student in June 1988. 
Asserting that Yale officials ignored her complaints at that 
time, Joost renewed her charges this fall. Also, history and 
American studies professor Mario Garcia left Yale this sum-
mer after a graduate school grievance board found that he 
had harassed one of his graduate students. 
In a recent Yale Daily News article, ten of 30 female 
graduate students interviewed said they knew of other inci-
dents of either physical or verbal sexual harassment in the 
graduate school. National numbers back up their claims. 
According to the Association of American Colleges, 20 to 
30 percent of undergraduates and even more graduate stu-
dents experience harassment from instructors. 
The number of Yale students who report such incidents 
falls far short of national statistics and word-of-mouth 
reports, however. According to physics professor Peter 
Parker, who convenes the Yale College Grievance Board for 
Student Complaints of Sexual Harassment, the number of 
complaints received by the board has ranged from 12 ro 24 
a year. Last year the board received almost no complaints. 
"There's a great deal of frustration," said Parker, "knowing 
and hearing about so many more cases out there that never 
come to the board." 
At the beginning of each academic year, the grievance 
board places pamphlets that explain its functions and proce-



**Title:  [Untitled]**
**Author: [Untitled]**
**Page number(s): 27**

dures; it distributes table tents, brochures, and posters. But the 
effectiveness of such publicity efforts remains questionable. 
Board member Eve Tetzlaff (SY '93) admits she did not 
notice the pamphlet or learn of the board's existence until 
her junior year. 
Students who suffer harassment may choose not to take 
action through the university for a wide range of personal 
reasons. Also, Yale's failure to publicize adequately its sexual 
harassment grievance procedures and the university's dearth 
of educational programs may help foster the confusion that 
causes many cases to go unreponed. 
Yale's grievance procedure calls sexual harassment 
"antithetical to academic values,~ and defines it as 
nonconsensual sexual advances, requests for sexual 
favors, or other verbal or physical conduct that becomes a 
condition for employment or academic standing or disrupts 
work or academic performance. Sexual harassment may be 
found in a single incident as well as persistent behavior. 
Yale offers several options for victims of sexual harass-
ment. Each school has its own sexual harassment grievance 
board. The Yale College board, first convened in 1978, han-
dles informal undergraduate complaints of sexual harass-
ment that involve Yale College faculty and staff. The seven 
board members, who include faculty, administrators, and 
students, also answer questions about the grievance proce-
dure and give advice about sexual harassment. "The board 
wants to be there to help," said Parker. 
One student, Sarah*, received quick attention when she 
turned to the board after a teaching assistant made unwant-
ed advances towards her. One evening on her way to work, 
Sarah bumped into her teaching assistant, who offered to 
meet her later to help her with her studies over a bite to eat. 
"I don't mind being friends with my TA.s," Sarah said, "so I 
went with him." But when the teaching assistant started to 
talk of personal matters, Sarah became uncomfortable. "I 
sensed the boundaries between student and teacher melt-
ing," she said. "He told me that he loved me. I said pretty



**Title: You can SPEAK OUT**
**Author: Sonya Joo**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
much everything to stop this. But still 
he kept calling me." 

The teaching assistant's pursuit of 
Sarah affected her academics. She 
could not concentrate in section 
because she wondered if he directed 
his comments to the class or to her 
alone. "An obsessive male is hard 
enough to deal with in the social 
realm," Sarah said. "But now the 
obsessive male is also giving you a 
grade during the week. Your academic 
and social lives collapse into each 
other." 

After learning of the board from 
her college dean, Sarah spoke ro a 
board member and filed an informal 
complaint. The board contacted her 
teaching assistant, informed him of 
Sarah's identity, and listened to his side 
procedure usually entails a hearing at 
which both parties state their cases 
before a committee appointed by the 
dean. 

'1 did everything to stop 
this. But still he kept 
calling me. " 

The committee then submits a 
report to the dean, who decides on a 
final resolution. Action by the dean 
can include oral warnings, reprimands, 
or review of disputed grades. If the 
dean believes that a harassment inci-
dent merits more serious punishment, 
he or she can refer it to higher authori-
ings are more rigid and impersonal, 
and the student relinquishes control to 
the administration. 

Board members believe that they 
provide a viable alternative to these 
more formal procedures. 

"No 
aggrieved student has ever come to me 
whose problems have been overlooked 
by the board or not taken seriously," 
said Betty Trachtenberg, Dean of 
Student Affairs of Yale College. 

Board members regret that stu-
dents who do not know much, if any-
thing, about the board can have mis-
perceptions about its level of formality. 

"The use of the word 'board' really 
misrepresents how informal and con-
cerned this group is," said Tetzlaff. 

Confusion about the murky 
boundaries of sexual harassment con-
of the story. The board keeps all pro-
ceedings confidential, but identifies 
the complainant to the alleged harasser 
for the sake of fairness to all parties. 

The board aims to resolve matters 
as quickly as possible, bur can rake no 
action without the student's permis-
sion. "We do not want the srudent to 
lose control of the situation," said 
Parker. The board may arrange for a 
student to change sections, or require 
offenders to write letters of apology. In 
Sarah's case, she switched sections, and 
her teaching assistant received a warn-
ing from his department. 

If the board fails to resolve a prob-
lem, or if a student files a formal com-
plaint, the Dean of Yale College han-
dles the case. Once the dean steps in, 
the student no longer controls the 
handling of the com plaine. The dean's 
ties. The ultimate power to dismiss an 
instructor lies with the University 
Tribunal, a body whose action must be 
authorized by the president and which 
has never met in its 23 year history. 

Cases that involve student com-
plaints against other students come 
before the Executive Committee, 
which handles all infractions of the 
Undergraduate Regulations. The 
Executive Committee may authorize 
removal from campus housing or put a 
student on probation. 

But few students initiate formal 
complaints, although they allow for 
severe punitive action. According to 
Valerie Stanley, Assistant Director of 
Yale's Office for Equal Opportunity 
Programs, the lengthy process and the 
publicity of a formal procdure intimi-
dates people. In addition, the proceed-


---

**Title: You will BE HEARD**
**Page number(s): 29**

uibutes to student reluctance to lodge 
any kind of complaint with the uni-
versity. Another student, Mike*, who 
was harassed by his teaching assistant, 
did not consider the situation serious 
enough to turn to the administration. 

Mike's instructor repeatedly urged 
him to come in during office hours, 
and then came to Mike's room one 
night to return a lab. "I worked so 
hard on these labs bur he graded me so 
harshly. I kept wondering what was 
going on," Mike said. Unable to 
ignore the situation, Mike dropped the 
course. But about a month later his 
teaching assistant showed up at his 
door, dressed up and holding a flower. 
After a nervous exchange the teaching 
assistant left. Mike found the incident 
awkward and unwelcome, yet doubts 
that the teaching assistant's actions fall 
under the definition of sexual harass-
ment 

Mike's reluctance reflects the diffi-
culty in determining the point at 
which 
an 
instructor's behavior 
becomes a violation of a student's aca-
demic and personal life. Even Sarah 
did not immediately label her experi-
ence as sexual harassment. "I thought 
that sexual harassment was only a case 
involving an ultimatum, like, 'If you 
don't sleep with me, I'll fail you or fire 
you,'" she said. 

Some students believe that univer-
sity policy and awareness efforts have 
failed to clear up the confusion for 
both students and instructors. Becky 
Young (ES '94), co-coordinator of 
women breaking the silence, a group 
formed to raise awareness about sexual 
new teaching assistants provides little 
opportunity to deal with the issue in 
depth. 

In response to the need for more 
thorough training, a group of graduate 
students established a series of work-
shops called Working at Teaching. 
One workshop addressed "crushes" of 
students on teachers and vice versa, 
and the problems of favoritism and 
harassment that arise. According to 
Matt Dowling (GRD '94), these 
workshops fill a gap in the p resent 
training system. H owever, not all 
teaching assistants attend this pro-
gram. 

The efforts of groups like 
Working at Teaching signal a positive 
step in the battle against sexual harass-
ment. As this national issue hits cam-
assault and harassment, claimed that 
few students actually read Yale's sexual 
harassment pamphlet and that even 
fewer freshpeople attend the optional 
discussion during orientation. "We 
call on the administration to take a 
more aggressive approach to this 
issue," said Young. 

Faculty and staff do not receive 
much guidance about Yale's sexual 
harassment policy either. In accor-
dance with state law, the Office of 
Equal Opportunity Programs periodi-
cally runs workshops for super~isors, 
some of whom are faculty members. 
But the administration does not spon-
sor workshops for all teachers. Every 
teaching assistant receives a handbook 
that includes a section on sexual 
harassment and states that they should 
not date students. But orientation for 
pus, Yale shows signs of increased 
responsiveness. 

Deputy 
Provost 
Charles Long plans to revise sexual 
harassment grievance procedures to 
clarify policies and the steps to file a 
complaint. And Tetzlaff claims that 
despite campus confusion over the 
university's policy and grievance pro-
cedures, Yale considers sexual harass-
ment a very serious matter. "From 
what I have seen, people are very com-
mitted to the board," she said. 

"There's a commitment in the univer-
sity that students should not have to 
deal with sexual harassment." 

1811 
Sonya ]oo, a sophomor~ in Davmport 
Co/kg~. is Circulation Dir~ctor of TN] . 
Sarah and Mik~ ar~ psnulonyms. 

**Title: Who Tolls the Bells?**
**Author: Stephanie Lowell**
**Page number(s): 30**

\ 
Cari/Jonn~r Bm Wtoarn (MC '93) survtys his domain from lofty Harkness Tower. 

Nineteen Yale students have a very special set of keys. 
The first key unlocks the entryway door of 
Harkness Tower, and the second opens the door to 
a '"harrow spiral staircase. The students use the third in the 
middle of the dark and damp stairwell. Then they climb 
and climb, past the tower clock and the pigeons, and use the 
fourth and final key to unlock a grate that leads to the open 
air and the bells of the tower. Higher than the bells, 286 
steps from the ground, they reach the top of Harkness. Far 
from sections, papers, and exams, they can see all of New 
Haven and, in the right weather, as far as Long Island. 

These 19 students make up the Yale Guild of Carillonneurs, 
who climb Harkness daily to chime the hour and enjoy the 
height, the view, and the power to make the entire campus 
listen to their music. 

The carillon tradition began in 17th century Holland. 
When the central town clock rang the hour, townspeople 
often missed the first few beats, so the bell-ringers began to 
chime a little tune to capture the town's attention before 
they rang out the time. Carillon playing declined during the 
18th century, when many a town's bells were melted down 
to make armaments for the French Revolution. But a 20th 
century surge of interest, largely in the United States, led to 
the rearrangement of many classical pieces for the carillon as 
well as the composition of new runes. 

The bells in Yale's beloved Harkness played a large role 
in the carillon revival. Builders completed the tower at the 
end of World War I, and in 1921 a steamer brought 14 
newly-cast bells from England to New Haven. In 1964 
Elenor Crofut gave Yale the additional upper 40 bells need-
ed to make a full carillon. 

The Yale carillon, a keyboard instrument like the 
organ, spans four and a half octaves and has 54 hand keys 
and 28 foot pedals. The keys attach to clappers hung in the 
tower via thin steel rods. The clappers increase in weight as 
the notes get lower-
the clapper bells attached to the high 
notes weigh about 200 pounds, while the lowest bell weighs 
almost seven tons. One plays the instrument by hitting the 
keys with loosely clenched fists or by pressing on the foot 
pedals. Since the pedals play the same notes as the lower 
half of the hand notes, two players can perform together 
using only the hand keys. 

Though an official college organist played the original 
bells, during the 1940s Yale College students took over the 
job and played the chimes five times a day for 15 minutes 
per ring. When Yale acquired a full carillon, the Yale Guild 
of Carillonneurs was officially founded. 

Endowments from the Harkness family, who also paid



**Yale's Bell Ringers**
**Author: Stephanie Lowell**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yale's bell-ringers bang out tunes like Bach's "Toccata and Fugue," Chopin's "Funeral March," "Ding Dong, the Witch is Dead," and the "Pink Panther." In addition to performing for the Yale community, they play national anthems for visiting dignitaries and do $75 gigs for weddings. 

The guild is currently planning a spring trip to Belgium, where they will visit a few of the original carillon towers and acquaint themselves with the history of their instrument.


Guild members choose their own tunes and sometimes improvise during their rings. The group has a library of music into which players can delve, and the selection includes Bach fugues, gospel hymns, Led Zeppelin's "Stairway to Heaven," and the Sesame Street theme. Bernstein learned quickly that some student listeners display their preferences quite clearly. "Last year a group of Branford students would post hate notices whenever I played the Beatles," she said.


One further attraction of carillonning is its distance from stereotypical Yale activities. Wearn and Scott noted that since carillonning is not exactly a mainstream thing, guild members tend to be a little on the, well, strange side. "It's not that we're eccentric," said Scott. "But you could say that we all have our eccentric aspects."


While the student community below walks around campus, enjoying, ignoring, or even hating the music that screams from the tower, the carillonneurs sit far above playing music with the sense of ultimate control. Although offbeat and perhaps a little mysterious to most, guild members find carillonning to be an empowering experience. "It's cataclysmic," said Wearn. "You're sitting under 40 tons of bells, playing music you love, and the heavens open up!"


Guild membership depends on musical skill and diligent practice. None of the present carillonneurs played the instrument before coming to Yale. Beginners study under experienced guild members during the fall semester and audition before winter break. Student carillonneurs ring the bells for a half-hour twice a day, at 12:00 and 5:00 p.m. from Monday to Saturday, and at 2:00 and 5:00 p.m. on Sundays. Carillonneurs also play special theme rings, like their Halloween show, in which members performed for the construction of the tower, and from Crofut, support Yale's carillon activities. The Harkness funds maintain the tower and bells, while the Crofut money provides the guild with an operating budget. 

Membership in the guild comes with the appealing perk of access to the top of Harkness Tower. "It's a great escape from Yale to sit up in the tower all by yourself," said Molly Scoville (DC '93), co-chair of the guild. "It's one of the few places you can really be alone." 

Despite their possessive feelings about the tower, members often agree to share access to it. "At times I get phone calls from people I hardly know because they find out that I have a key to the tower," said Mira Bernstein (BK '94). "But I almost always take them up there because I think it's a really worthwhile experience." 

Carillonneurs' sense of privilege also extends to the act of bell-ringing itself. "One of our applicants called it 'a mix of power and anonymity,' and it totally is," said co-chair Ben Wearn (MC '93). Bell-ringing offers its devotees a rare opportunity for total control. "Playing my first ring was terrifying," said Ted Scott (SY '93). "But once you dare to play, there's really nothing anyone can do to stop you." 

Stephanie Lowell is a senior in Morse College.


**Title: AFTERTHOUGHT**
**Author: Elisha Cooper**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I 
pick flowers before every away game. Flowers or some 
leaves that I put next to my seat on the bus for luck. I 
also give some to Pete Swartz, our kicker. On this drizzly 
Friday I pick an extra big bunch of red and orange leaves 
because we are playing Dartmouth, the biggest game of our 
season so far. We gather outside of Lapham Field House, all 
of us players carrying our clunky blue travel bags over our 
shoulders. The trainers and equipment men load big blue 
boxes into the belly of the bus and the managers hand out 
bag lunches. Our coaches, a good many of whom are Italian 
and wear funny hats, stand outside, shuffling. We are all 
dressed in jacket and tie, which makes the large lineman 
types look a bit out of place and ill at ease. On the way up 
1-91 some of the guys sleep, snoring with Walkmans on 
their ears and textbooks across their laps. I watch the coun-
tryside and changing foliage of the Connecticut River 
Valley. 

The Connecticut River is a blue vein coursing through 
New England. In late October the valley's surrounding hills 
explode into orange and yellow and red. Fields are ochre 
with corn, or cold with dirt where the corn has already been 
harvested. One triangular-shaped field above Brattleboro is 
still tilled by horse. Small towns wedge themselves unobtru-
sively into bends in the river. From the bus, Hanover, New 
Hampshire is a few white houses and steeples pushing their 
34 THE NEw JouRNAL 
way through the trees. We exit the highway, cross the iron 
bridge, and the dark river that has followed us for the whole 
trip is left behind. 

Hanover swims with fall and with studepts hurrying to 
put up a wooden bonfire in the center of the town green. 
Invaders in buses, we disembark at the old brick locker 
rooms that sit across a small paved walk from Dartmouth's 
Memorial Stadium. A bunch of us wander across the grass, 
poking the turf with our leather dress shoes. The huge 
empty stands, covered with ivy, rise up on either side. I try 
to imagine what the stadium will look like tomorrow. Then 
a whistle-Coach Cozza thinks it's too wet for practice, so 
.we go to our hotel to "rest up." 

The Holiday Inn in White River Junction looks just 
like the Ramada in Easton, Pennsylvania, which looks just 
like whatever hot~! is outside of Cornell in upstate New 
York. These places always make me wonder about the life of 
professional athletes on the road. This Holiday Inn does 
have some quality attractions--on the way to our identical 
rooms we pass a huge indoor recreation area with a swim-
ming pool, a ping-pong table, a pool table, a putting green 
and even a railway caboose, maroon with Delaware-Hudson 
Line painted on the side. "How the hell'd this get in here?'' 
someone asks. None of us knows. I wish I could go for a 
walk. 

Most of the guys go to their 
rooms with the identical beds and 
watch TV. Ties pulled, feet up, 
waiting. Waiting specifically for 
dinner. Food comes at 5:30, along 
with a rush oflarge boys. Salad first, 
with iceberg lettuce. Spaghetti with 
meat sauce. Rolls that always run 
out. Chicken. Chocolate cake. A lot 
of my teammates have grumbled 
recently about the lack of red meat. 
After dinner we watch films. The 
same ones of Dartmouth we've 
watched all week. The only reason 
we meet is to meet, to keep the 
team together. Afterwards I walk 
through hollow corridors back to 
my room. I try to read and end up 
watching TV with Ed Kmak, my 
roommate and fellow receiver. I 
can't tell what's outside our closed 
DECEMBER 4• 1992 


--- Page 35 ---

0 '0 
J! windows, dark and dap-
teammates 
get 
their 
:~ pled with drops of rain. 
ankles taped while train-
t!: We sit on our beds for 
ers scurry about, others 
~ hours, watching Friday 
silently change their 
§ night television, waiting. 
cleats. I change mine, put 
~ 
them on, then run out-
Bill Gonillo wonders 
side in the cold to test 
:§ about the corn chowder 
.. ~........, ~ 
the field. 
-2 they usually bring up to 
'fllllll"" 
O ld men are putting 
8 the press box. A large 
final touches on the 
{ man, with diabetes, he has 
field-painting lines, 
just downed ten of those 
rolling cords, putting the 
great chocolate chip cook-
chains in place. I hear 
ies they have up here and 
bands in the distance, 
doesn't know if he should,__ ___ 
.;;;;;;;... _ __;__:;_..::..._-=----------------':::._--' drums and trombones 
have another. His stomach "SometiJing blew us down tl;e field. It was a moment of fullness." 
sounding over blowing 
isn't feeling good from the 
yellow trees, and the 
bouncy Saturday morning flight up from New Haven. Bill 
sounds of tailgaters gathering. I stretch alone in the center 
looks out across the stadium at the fans teeming in and out 
of the field. Reporters and die-hard followers of Yale 
to the distant hills with their bright fall foliage. It's about 
Football, all men with large cigars, circle the locker room 
time to start. Scratching his day-old beard with one hand, 
door. I push back inside and leave the hum of the field 
he grabs the WELl mike with the other and begins: The 
behind. It's time to dress. 
blue loaded up the bus, they tripped up 1-91, they suffered 
I go to my bag: jockstrap, greys, girdle, white pants 
through the annual bonfire that comes h"ere every Friday night 
with two blue stripes, shoulder pads, jersey, black cleats and 
before Homecoming which always seems to be the Yale Football 
a battered white helmet with a big blue Y. Tape ripping, the 
game, and as the old beer ads say, "'t doesn't get much better 
slap of shoulder pads, we gather as a team and tramp out to 
than this. "It's the height, maybe just past the peak of the foliage 
the field for warm-ups. Stretching, running together, catch-
season up here in the upper valley and it is great football. It is 
ing, throwing. Running routes and breaking a sweat. 
Yale and Dartmouth. Hi again everybody, and welcome to 
Adrenaline. The stands begin to fill with a trickle of fall 
Hanover, New Hampshire. 
fans, colorful and warm. Then back to the locker room. I 
S 
aturday morning breaks clear and cold. The wet from 
the day before barely sits on the ground. The air is 
Northern crisp-not quite cold enough to see your 
breath, but cold enough for longjohns. Cold enough to 
think of snow. In the hotel parking lot I watch the nipping 
wind pick up the leaves and blow them across the sky into 
the biting early morning smoke from distant farmhouses. 
We leave the hotel and drive the nervous 11 miles up to 
Hanover. 

Locker rooms during the week are loud and raucous. 
On game day an eerie silence descends. Players, half in dress 
clothes, half in uniform, sit on benches and read the pro-
gram. No one says a word. The only sounds are the hum of 
heavy metal coming through someone's Walkman and the 
never-ending flush of toilets from the bathroom. Some 
DECEMBER 4, 1992 
pace around inside, catch a quick glance from a teammate. 
The door outside occasionally blows open and lets in a 
short blast of bands and the assembling crowd. 

Last instructions from our coaches. Sweat wiped away, 
eyeb)ack put on, mine smeared. Then, as usual, we kneel for 
the Lord's Prayer. Sometimes I wonder about the Jewish 
members of the team. But there we all are, bowed in white 
uniforms, 70 men holding hands. It's comforting. Dave 
Dixon, our fullback, always throws up before games. 
Nerves. He finds a way of doing this right in the middle of 
the Lord's Prayer, or expertly between verses of the National 
Anthem. Against Dartmouth he does both. We are ready to 
play. 

The players trot out onto the field, and to Bill from his 
green press box above the stands, they look very small: The 
Elis in the visiting jersey with the gleaming white helmets, 
THE NEw JouRNAL 35 


--- Page 36 ---

white pants and the blue numbers and 
Dartmouth, the Big Green, in the green 
jerseys and the white numerals and the 
white helmets with Dartmouth on the 
side ... then with a rush and a roar it 
scares .. . he boots it and we're under-
way ... it takes a hop-
the deep man 
Ho./fmeister-
dekes a man! At the 20, 
the 30! A fumble! The bali squirts in the 
air, Mike Brown recovers in the air for 
Yale! Bill Gonillo yells into the mike. 
What a beginning. The fans hardly in 
their seats! But Yale fails to capitalize. 
The offense sputters and Pete Swartz, 
the kicker, misses a 39-yard field goal 
into the wind. 

Nothing has gone right for the Elis 
early on, Bill mumbles between bites of 
his corn chowder. This chowder is 
always the best thing about broadcast-
ing games up in Hanover, and today 
it's the only good thing. Yale's getting 
thoroughly dominated by Jay Fielder, 
Dartmouth's star quarterback. After 
the missed field goal, Yale's workhorse 
running back Keith Price fumbles. 
Fielder throws a strike to Greg 
Hoffmeister on the next play for a 
touchdown. And so goes the first half: 
again-
a playfake-stepping up-
Fielder, going Long, for Brzica, catches 
the football three steps out of bounds at 
the two, what a throw by jay Fielder! 
Across his body-off baittnce--40 yards 
down field-a strike! Yale is down by 
23. Then· a final insult: Dartmouth's 
third-string fullback Chris Umshied 
rambles over 30 yards co the 10 on a 
fake punt with only 12 seconds left in 
the half. Fielder hits receiver David 
Shearer on the lase play before half-
time for a touchdown. The bands 
thump, the home crowd roars, and Bill 
tries to find something good to say: 
gonna know the words of "Its the Backs 
Go Marching By" because, uh, they sing 
it after every score here and thry've Mne 
it five times already this, uh, this half 
Bill remembers an anecdote about the 
1987 Yale game against Hawaii. It was 
"The clock ticks and the game beats with last minuu desperation. " 
broadcast at around three in the morn-
ing New Haven time, and with Hawaii 
up by a bunch late in the third, the 
announcer heard all the radios on the 
East Coast go off with one big click. 

T
he game StartS well, we recover 
a fumble. But we can't seem co 
drive, and Dartmouth's quar-
terback can't seem t_? do anything 
wrong. As we huddle sweating and 
angry on the sideline, planning our 
next series, the crowd explodes and we 
turn our heads to see some receiver in 
green dashing down the sidelines. A 
deep voice crackles cheerfully over the 
public address system "Fielder co 
Bnica" or "Fielder to Hoffmeister." At 
half-time we walk off the field feeling 
like we've been punched in the stom-
ach, our air gone. Mystified, down-
turned faces in the locker room. Looks 
not met. Coach Cozza has two things 
to say to us: "Keep your poise, play 
with your hearts." We don't know 
what co chink, but out we 
go for the second half. 

Fall foliag~things look 
beautiful, but things aren't 
so beautiful right now and 
certainly the Yale Bulldogs 
have a heck of a mountain to 
climb if they want to get 
back in the game, Bill says 
into the mike as the second 
half starts. He chews on a 
complimentary hot dog 
and counts 17 different 
colors in the mountain 
behind the stands. Pretty 
impressive. Then Yale 
scores on an unobtrusive 
run by halfback Price. 
WELl field commentator 
Joe Benanto checks in: It's a 
start, hey. you have to score 
one before you score four, so 
you never know what's going 
to happen. Bill starts look-
ing at the action on the 
field more closely. Next 
DEC£MB£R 4· 1997. 



**Title: Yale vs. Dartmouth**
**Author: Elisha Coop**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
series, the Yale 
defense holds 
Dartmouth to a field goal. Yale's Matt 
Fahrney runs back a long return. Price 
takes a pitch from Mills and completes 
a halfback pass. Yale scores again, trus 
Coach Cozza has two 
things to say to us: 
"Keep your poise, play 
with your hearts." 
time Mills dives over the end line. Bill 
leans forward now, into the game. It's 
not out of the realm of possibility, he says 
uncertainly. A comeback is in the air, 
the wind picks up and the home 
crowd, quieted, grows nervous as the 
fall shadows lengthen. The Yale band 
bumps happily, "March, march on 
down the field," and the Yale defense 
holds again, bringing Fielder to earth. 
Yale has the ball once more, driving. 
The offensive line is opening up holes 
for Price, who cuts back expertly, div-
ing for extra yardage. Yale reaches the 
Dartmouth two, the quarter comes to 
an end, and Bill shouts: Don't go anywhere! 


In the third period something hap-
pened, an intangible change, 
though I'm not sure what it was. 
Maybe the weather. The fall afternoon 
became full of wind, blustery leaves 
danced across the field, shadows 
spread towards us from the stands and 
press box, and thousands of people, 
some ringing the end zones and sitting 
on the grass, crowded around. 

Something blew us down the field. It 
was a moment of fullness: we were all 
inside of the game. And for a moment, 
I thought we had a chance to win. 
Yale scores on the first play of the 
fourth quarter. It's now Dartmouth 
33, Yale 21. Bill clutches the mike: 
plenty of time, plenty of time here. 
Things become crazy, possible. The 
white uniforms on the Yale bench 
jump in the sun. Dartmouth has the 
ball: Fielder at the 45- lofts one 
up--has a receiver--Clifford--makes 
the catch at the 20-Oh!--breaks the 
tackle there and ... Danny Urban hit 
him as soon as he caught the ball but 
Urban is getting up slow ... It was a 
tremendous hit, but the Yale player is 
the one hurt. He limps off. In the 
next play Fielder throws to a leaping 
Brzica in the left corner of the end 
zone. Touchdown. The Dartmouth 
side sighs with relief. Oh, that is a 
back-breaker. 

But Yale 
is 
not through. 
Quarterback Mills engineers another 
drive and slides across the end line. 
Swartz lines up for an onside kick-
and botches it, completely missing 
the ball. The Yale side groans, and so 
does Bill: Oh boy, that was absolutely 
horrible play. The clock ticks and the 
game beats with last minute despera-
tion. Dartmouth moves down the 
field after the botched kick and misses 
a field goal-but Yale has an extra 
man on the field and the drive contin-
ues 
because 
of the 
penalty. 
Inexcusable! The battered and grass-
stained 
white 
defense 
holds 
Dartmouth on the one- yard line, but 
time is not with Yale. Their last drive 
ends with a long interception, the ball 
fluttering desperately down the field 
only to fall into the hands of a green 
uniform. The gun sounds, fans pour 
onto the field and Bill, up in the 
booth, shakes his head. That would've 
been something. 

Then the final gun, shaking hands 
with Dartmouth at midfield, and the 
solitary walk back to the locker room. 
Now the field lies empty and I 
stand outside, hair wet from the 
shower, body tired, eyeblack taken 
off, tie back on. A large radio man 
and a few reporters with notebooks 
hover around the locker room door, 
waiting for the coach or the odd player, 
and the final shafts of the sun 
jump through the tips of the trees 
over the deserted field. At moments 


And then it's over. The field 
stands alone, battered, covered 
in shadow. A program bounces 
along the sidelines in the wind. 
Memories of our fallen comeback 
dance through my mind: a lucky pass, 
a missed kick, a groan, huge and 
unfathomable, as we turned our 
sweaty faces to the clock in the end 
zone, pleading with time to slow. 
like this, in the waning light of a lost 
game on a fall day in Hanover, New 
Hampshire, I know why I love foot-
ball, and I know that I will remember 
these days when I am old. I shoulder 
my blue bag and walk back to the 
bus. 


**No title found**
**Author: No author found**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:

--- Page 40 ---
